10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Ray FRANCIS Staff Writer

Thursday’s victory over the College of Charleston Cougars was more than just a victory over the conference leaders. It was also the culmination of the season-long growing process that the entire team has endured since the departure of star guard Stephen Curry ’10. As this year’s seniors learned how to be leaders in Curry’s absence as well as how to integrate the highly successful freshman class into the rotation, the team has often seemed half a step off.

The promise of success had always been present for this year’s squad. They played national powers Gonzaga and Butler very competitively before falling on the road both times. Two losses on neutral courts (to Penn State and Cornell) were decided in the game’s final seconds. And the Wildcats thumped the Citadel on the road 74-63 to avenge an 18-point loss last year and added salt to the Bulldogs’ wounds by completing the season sweep last Saturday.

But the season was also marked by struggles against the best teams in the Southern Conference. The Wildcats suffered double-digit home losses to Appalachian State (fourth place) and Western Carolina (tied for second) while also falling to Wofford (tied for second) on the road. But the low point of the season came against the College of Charleston. On the road, against the conference leaders, the Wildcats trailed by 20 points with eight minutes remaining before losing by 12. It was the third straight loss to the Cougars, and seemed to justify the Cougars’ number one spot in the preseason coaches’ poll.

After winning three consecutive conference titles, it appeared as though the Wildcat machine was slowing down. Four conference losses (more than in the past two seasons combined) had the Wildcats uncomfortably close to the middle of the pack. But on Thursday night, when 4,600 fans clad in black entered the arena, the swagger and closing ability of the previous Wildcat teams returned.

Not that this was evident at first. After Will Archambault ’10 began the game with a triple, Davidson saw Charleston bolt out to a quick 23-9 lead in an attempt to strangle the Wildcat attack before it could get going. But there was no panic from this Wildcat squad. A 13-2 run allowed the Wildcats to creep back into the game, and a JP Kuhlman ’13 basket would eventually tie the game at 36 at intermission.

A symbol of the Wildcats’ success in this game was Frank Ben-Eze ’12. Charleston seems to bring out the best in the Nigerian native. He blocked three shots in seven minutes against the Cougars in last year’s conference tournament, and blocked two more during the 13-2 run to set the tone for the Davidson effort the rest of the way. They would not back down. They would come right at the Cougars and demonstrate the mettle that years of championships had built.

The Cougars led for most of the first ten minutes of the second half. But the Wildcats never let them get away and the crowd was never silenced by the Cougar attack. The first sign that the night might belong to the Wildcats came with 10:48 remaining. Archambault was fouled on a three-point attempt. He made the first two foul shots but missed the third. Undaunted, he chased down the offensive rebound and laid the ball in for a four-point possession and a four-point lead.

There were still opportunities for the Wildcats to fold, however. Andrew Goudelock’s vicious one-handed dunk with eight minutes left pulled Charleston within one and threatened to alter the momentum of the game. But again, Davidson refused to wilt. A jumper by Kuhlman and two foul shots from Ben-Eze gave the Wildcats a 70-67 edge, setting the stage for Archambault to put the game away.

The first play that Archambault made came with 2:57 remaining. Brendan McKillop ’11 hit him with a bounce pass as he was making a backdoor cut and Archambault elevated for a two-handed flush over two Cougar defenders. The play happened in the blink of an eye, but crushed the Cougar chances. They failed to score again, and Archambault added a dagger.3-pointer with 1:22 remaining to seal the win. The Cougars looked shell-shocked as they watched McKillop dribble the final seconds off the clock. The loss was their second straight in league play, and they looked as though they had been hit by a mental two-by-four. The only Cougar to show any emotion was legendary head coach Bobby Cremins, who wore a wry smile as he shook hands with Wildcat coach Bob McKillop. One group that did show emotion was the Wildcat fans. They gave their team a standing ovation as they left the court. The victory snapped a two-game home losing streak, and for one night, served as a reminder of the ovations the team had received after salting away victories in seasons past. To be sure, work remains to be done. Davidson still trails Charleston by two games in the conference standings. The Wildcats currently only shoot free throws at a 67% clip as a team, and their 21-26 (80.8%) performance against the Cougars may well have been the most important stat of the game. If the Wildcats can avoid giving away free points at the charity stripe and continue to shoot the ball accurately from beyond the arc, they could make for a deadly postseason opponent. A hot-shooting team with senior leadership and fresh blood (freshmen Jake Cohen ’13 and Kuhlman are the team’s two-leading scorers) would present a formidable challenge to any tournament opponent.

Men’s Basketball (11-11, 6-4)
Results:
1/28 vs. C of C W 86-71
1/30 vs. The Citadel W 67-63
2/2 @ Wofford W 66-60
Next Up:
2/6 @ UNCG
2/8 vs. Elon
Notes: For the second time this season, the Wildcats’ scheduled game with Radford was postponed due to inclement weather. The game will not be made up.

Men’s Tennis (3-1, 0-0)
Results:
1/31 vs. S.C. State W 7-0
Next Up:
2/13 @ #61 Furman
Notes: Chris Mark ’13 and Joe Schafer ’13 continued their dominating college debuts as each picked up singles victories on Sunday to remain undefeated in their young college careers.

Women’s Basketball (11-10, 9-4)
Results:
1/29 @ Radford Canceled
Next Up:
2/6 vs. Ga. Southern
Notes: The Wildcats have won nine of their last 13 games after starting the season 2-7. Additionally, following this week’s victories, the team boasts an impressive 7-3 record at home.

Swimming and Diving
Men (1-7, 1-1)
Women (6-6, 6-0)
Results:
1/30 @ Gardner-Webb Canceled
Next Up:
2/18-2/20 CCSA Championship @ Knoxville, TN
Notes: The ’Cats final regular season meet of the year at Gardner-Webb was canceled due to inclement weather.

Women’s Tennis (1-0, 0-0)
Results:
2/1 vs. S.C. State W 4-3
Next Up:
2/6 vs. Wingate
2/6 vs. NC A&T
Notes: The Wildcats rallied from a 2-1 deficit to claim a thrilling 4-3 victory over the visiting Bulldogs to open the 2010 season.

Wrestling (2-12, 0-3)
Results:
1/27 @ UNCG L 9-40
Next Up:
2/4 vs. The Citadel
2/9 @ App. State
Notes: Alex Radsky ’11, Vitaly Radsky ’11, and Tyler Mullen ’12 all scored decisions in last week’s loss to the Spartans.

Will Archambault ’10 prepares to drive for two of his game-high 24 points in the ’Cats 86-71 win over College of Charleston. Archambault needs just 13 points to become the 38th Davidson player to eclipse 1,000 points for his career.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2010

Lobster Says Thanks!
Hello again student body! As a follow-up to my article last week, I just wanted to thank everyone who came out to the games Thursday and Saturday! The crowds were amazing; the student section was filled to the top. And what a great pair of games we got to see! We told the city of Charleston what was up. I loved all of it. So thanks again! And keep it up on Saturday as we take on Georgia Southern!
- THE LOBSTER