2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

KELSEY LILLEY
News Editor

In an effort to increase dialogue on a multitude of issues among the Davidson community, the Student Government Association (SGA)
has begun the Voices Project.

“Lots of issues, topics, and questions are not frequently discussed at Davidson for many reasons,” SGA President Meikaela Zwieryznski said.
“Some students have the feeling that it isn’t okay to bring up concerns or questions, and we want to ensure
that every member of our campus community can have his or her voice heard. Whether it is praise about what
the Davidson community is doing well, or concern about what we need to do better, everyone should be able to
speak openly and freely, and to be received with respect.”

A three-part initiative, the Voices Project begins with the “Your Voice, Your Story” section of the Davidsonian (the first edition
of which is to the right of this article) in which students and faculty can share their opinions anonymously.

“It is open, it is public, and all submissions will be shared with the community to promote discussion about what
our peers are experiencing, thinking, and feeling,” Zwieryznski said. “It is anonymous to ensure that the focus is directed at
the issues and topics raised in the submissions rather than directed toward the individuals submitting the comments.”

Secondly, the SGA has also implemented a “Movie Screening, Dinner and Dialogue” series called Reel Talk. Beginning last Wednesday with
a screening of “Babel,” Reel Talk will show “Good Hair” next Monday, Feb. 15, in the 900 Room, as a
collaborative event with the Residence Life Office and the Black Student Coalition.

“The documentary follows the business of black hair to evaluate various social, international and economic issues, and makes you laugh
while really challenging you to think about complex issues,” Zwieryznski said.

Thirdly, the “Breaking Bread” section of the Voices Project will consist of two groups coming together over dinner to discuss
an issue that involves both groups, but may not have previously been discussed. Zwieryznski said that groups can either make
requests to attend the dinner or be invited.

“Clearly some discussion can get heated, and it is crucial to ensure that all dialogue that comes from this project
is proactive and respectful,” Zwieryznski said.

2

with the Health Advisors

When you first arrive at the health center, they’ll ask you a few questions about any symptoms you may be
experiencing in order to assess your risk for STDs. The actual examination is pretty simple and lasts only a few
minutes. First, you’ll drop your trousers and the health care provider will examine that region, checking the lymph nodes in
the groin and the testicles for any possible lumps or discomfort. Next, a thin swab is inserted into the urethra
and rotated. This can be slightly painful, however, it only lasts for a short time. After that, a urine test
is conducted to check for gonorrhea and chlamydia. If you want to get tested for HIV, syphilis, and hepatitis, a
blood sample is also collected. This whole procedure won’t take long and really is painless. Most importantly, any information that
you give to a health care provider and all test results are confidential.

So, don’t be nervous about getting tested — it’s best to know about down below!

XOXO,
The Health Advisors

Have Questions? Email Us: healthadvisors@davidson.edu

SGA discusses elections, zipcars

CHRISTINA BUSTILLO
Staff Writer

This week’s Student Government Association meeting began with a review of the recent elections. The discussion was led by current
Vice-President Baker Shogry ’10 and Faheem Rathore ’12. Issues such as when and where a candidate is allowed to campaign
and what constitutes campaigning will have to be revised and made clear to candidates. In addition to this, the Appeals
Council for violations during campaigns will be revised. Furthermore, the timeline of elections will be reevaluated inOrder for the electorate
to be able to become more familiar with the candidates and to allow possible candidates more time to familiarize themselves
with campus if they were abroad. After this, Meikaela Zwieryznski '10 took the floor to evaluate the success of the
Voices Project. The movie screened was “Babel,” and there was a good amount of student attendance and participation. The next
screening, “Good Hair,” is planned for Monday, Feb. 15, tying into Black History Month.

Afterward, the possibilities of either a second ‘Vamanos Van’ to take students to the movies or Birkdale during the early
evening or a Zip Car system on campus were discussed. Zwieryznski said that the administration is evaluating this and other
possibilities that would make it easier for students without cars to travel.

“Therefore, all events will include a trained facilitator to ensure that we move forward and progress as a community from
such meaningful dialogue.” A result of feedback from previous SGA focus groups, the Voices Project is intended to “get people
talking,” according to Zwieryznski. “Davidson stresses how important it is to bring people from different backgrounds to our community,” she
said. “We agree, but we also think it is important to ensure that people from different backgrounds are engaging with
one another.”

Zwieryznski also noted that despite the diversity that Davidson has, it is “easy to fall into a comfort zone and
miss out on the experiences of so many members of our community.” “Furthermore, we want to give those individuals who
feel that their experiences and voices have been overlooked or silenced the opportunity to share those stories, thoughts, and feelings,”
she continued. “The name of the project comes from a desire to empower all members of our community.”

Your Story
I feel like a full member of the Davidson community because... Even though I am a minority here, I feel
like Davidson has been accepting of my culture and skin color. People definitely stay in their own groups. However, I
think that they are open to new cultures, religions, and ideas if (and only if) they are questioned or provoked
to talk about new things.
Student

I do not feel like a full member of the Davidson community because... I don't believe in ghosts, gods, angels,
demons, or anything else supernatural. The natural world runs by natural processes, and there is no valid evidence suggesting otherwise.
Christian prayers before college events are marginalizing to the nonreligious and to those of other faiths. And the many college
awards that honor a “life of faith and service” demean those who serve the community without basing that obligation on
faith in the supernatural.
Faculty Member

The SGA Voices Project is an initiative to incite and facilitate discussion and dialogue on topics of gender, sexual orientation,
ability, race, ethnicity, religion, and much more, helping us to hear the silenced voices and unspoken, unaddressed concerns in our
community. To submit your comment anonymously, visit the online version of the Davidsonian and look for the “Your Voice, Your
Story" link. If you have questions or concerns email.

Want to improve Healthcare? Believe Management, Informatics, and Analytics can make a difference? Be a pioneer in the program that
is at the intersection of technology, management, and healthcare and join the next generation of healthcare leaders who are transforming
medicine. Duke University’s Fuqua School of Business in partnership with the Duke Center for Health Informatics announces the new Master
of Management in Clinical Informatics. Management in Clinical Informatics program is the first of its kind in the United States,
leveraging Duke’s world-renowned track record in medicine, business, and health informatics. Through access to the finest faculty and resources across
health care, IT, and management education, students will acquire the knowledge and skills to merge technology and help improve human
health. Class begins August 2010. The first round of applications are due March 1, 2009. Visit: www.fuqua.duke.edu/mmci or email: mmci@duke.edu

Duke Center for Health Informatics
Duke Masters of Management
