2 The Davidsonian

Walk, from page 1

the same questions are still worth raising.” As the march commenced, Alpha Phi Alpha president Seyi Ayorinde unfurled a banner to lead the route through campus, inciting his peers with words reminiscent of Dr. King himself: “He marched on Washington, so we'll march on Davidson.” The walk ended at the steps in front of Chambers, where Ayorinde read King’s famous “I Have a Dream” speech. Afterward, Ayorinde encouraged the marchers to participate in other programs throughout the day, and entreated them to donate money through Alpha Phi Alpha to the Martin Luther King Jr. Foundation. A table was set up in the Union to take donations just for the day, but Ayorinde hoped to extend the table’s stay into this week.

“We still have a ways to go,” Jeffries cautioned. “We haven’t arrived yet at utopia, if you will. I am very, very, very passionate about that fact, that we can’t just say we’ve come a long way and everything’s ok. We still haven’t gotten that one right yet.”

King Day for Kids

From 9:30 AM until 11:30 AM, children and volunteers participated in “King Day for Kids,” which combined literacy, social justice, and community involvement. In keeping with Jeffries’ aim to “bring an awareness to even the little ones as to who Dr. King was and his importance,” students, faculty, staff, community members, and area youth came together to celebrate the values of Dr. King. During the program, children enjoyed a “read-in,” where they separated into small groups to read a story with a group leader from Davidson. They also designed book illustrations and wrote stories, which they shared with the entire group, afterward receiving literacy-based goody bags.

The highlight of the program was a “speed reading” contest with big-name celebrity contestants, including Davidson Mayor Woods, Police Chief Fountain Walker, SGA President Meikaela Zwierzynski ’10, and returning champion Joshua Arthur ’12. Volunteers sat scattered among children on the Union bottom floor, and Walker kicked off the contest, shouting, “Who’s ready?! I want to know!” Children and volunteers alike screamed in fright and joy. Walker marveled at the young people sitting before him. “Look at this group. This is meant for all folks. It’s wonderful, all ages and races together, and exactly what MLK wanted.”

Seminars on race and social justice

From 1:30 PM until 2:45 PM, three seminars took place in the Union, all with a focus on “the issue of race and social justice,” according to Jeffries. In Room 312, Dr. Hilton Kelly, Assistant Professor of Education, directed an open forum entitled, “Like Being Untied and Tickled at the Same Time: Remembering Legally Segregated Schools for Blacks,” in which he presented a film, lectured on the legacy of legally segregated schools for blacks, and suggested new ways of thinking about today’s re-segregated schools.

In the 900 Room, Cristina Garcia, Diversity Program Advisor & Area Coordinator, with students Justin Hua ’11, Jesse Johnson ’12, and Darrell Scott ’10, led a discussion entitled “Check All that Apply: Examining the Complexities of Racial Identity as Forced by Societal Labeling.” The talk focused on the various terms society has chosen to continuously label individuals based on ethnicity and race.

In Room 302, Sun Times reporter Isaac J. Bailey ’95, who authored a book about his experiences as a black student at Davidson and whose latest article will appear in the next issue of the Davidson Reader, presented his speech “Why I Don’t Eat Watermelon in Front of White People Even in a Post-racial World.” In his speech, Bailey proposed a new reality of race and why we must rethink everything we thought we knew about the subject. “You have to realize that other people are not the only ones who are imperfect,” he said. “You have to be humble, especially in terms of race. Without humility, any discussion of cross-racial issues will be shallow and pointless.”

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2010

At 11:30 AM in the 900 Room, Former North Carolina Chief Justice Henry Frye delivered the “Community Convocation.” A recognized business leader and community advocate, Justice Henry Frye became the first African-American to be elected to the North Carolina House of Representatives in the Twentieth Century. He served in the State House for 12 years and was then elected to a two-year term in the North Carolina Senate. In 1983, Justice Frye became the first African-American to serve on the Supreme Court of North Carolina. He was appointed by NC Governor Jim Hunt to serve as Chief Justice of the Supreme Court in 1999. Today,He continues to practice law. Zwieryznski welcomed all present and challenged them to act as “agents of the change Dr. King represents.” The Reverend Rob Spach, Davidson College Chaplain, gave the opening prayer, in which he called on God to bind us together with cords that cannot be broken.” Jefferies led the singing of “Lift Every Voice and Sing,” followed by President Tom Ross’ introduction of the illustrious speaker. “Henry Frye has made a difference,” he stated, and gave the floor over to the former Chief Justice. Frye began his speech by charming the audience with a series of clever, lighthearted rhyming poetry couplets: “It’s a beautiful day, / I’m glad to be here to have my say.” He described Dr. King’s life from his humble beginnings in Atlanta to his days of leadership in Alabama, and expounded on the virtues of King’s philosophy of nonviolent confrontation. “He was great because he had a dream,” Frye said, “A great man, but not a perfect man.” He urged the audience members, “Prepare yourselves, make a plan, but never give up in realizing your dream. Martin Luther King Jr. endured to the end. His legacy lives on.” Frye implored his audience to help children everywhere. “It is difficult to keep [our children] uncorrupted,” he admitted. “Children need training, children need advice. Sometimes, when we make a mistake, I believe it is appropriate to look them in the eyes and say, ‘I was wrong. I apologize.’” After his speech, Kappa Alpha Psi member Elliot Campbell ’11 presented Frye with a gift bag from the fraternity, of which Frye is a member, in appreciation from the College and the Community. Rabbi Michael Shields, Adjunct Jewish Chaplain, gave the closing prayer. “I like to talk to people about Dr. King,” Frye said, “especially people who might not know much. I suffered a lot of racial discrimination myself.”

Fireside chat with Davidson alumnus and Charlotte mayor Foxx ’93

The day continued at 3:00 PM with a “Fireside Chat” with Charlotte Mayor Anthony Foxx ’93. In his speech, the newly elected mayor first flattered the College. “This campus is hallowed ground for me,” he said. “It’s where I truly learned to live in service of others.” While much of his talk centered on the many civic and social issues confronting Charlotte in the context of MLK Day, he confessed that “the changes we now accept as a given in our society would not have happened if Dr. King had not stood up and acted. How do you convince people relatively comfortable with the status quo to do something different?” He went on to describe the day as “a holiday we are called not just to remember, but to act. Let’s not look at civil rights in a static way, but instead remember that things still need to be changed.” After a brief acclamation of King’s legacy, the mayor opened the floor up for questions from the eager audience. In particular, Foxx answered questions concerning poverty and homelessness in the Charlotte area. “We have to develop a framework for dealing with poverty and homelessness,” he affirmed. “We have to have a dedicated revenue source and industry support.” Foxx illustrated the problem in terms of “locational policy.” He claimed, “No one wants poverty in their backyard. We need a place to house the poor, which entails low-income housing so that no one area gets hit with the brunt of it.” Foxx echoed Jeffries’ insistence on child education by asserting the importance of a renewed educational system. “Beneath all the conversation we have about schools, we need to talk more about individual kids. If we don’t educate every child, we’ll have job problems soon,” he warned. In confirmation of his beliefs, the final question came from a Bailey Middle School girl, who asked what she and her classmates could do in the effort to alleviate poverty and homelessness. “There are a lot of things young people can do, like partnering with other schools to help, including schools that have poor and homeless children,” he advised. For Davidson students, Foxx recommended that students “provide support through services in Charlotte such as the Urban Ministry Center.” In keeping with his call to “act” rather than “remember,” Foxx offered practical advice for the correction of pressing social issues. “In truth, the changes are the work of simple people, regular people,” he said. “All of us are woven together in an inescapable web of human interest.”