6 The DAVIDSONIAN

Food fight! Not just a

Arts & LIVING

Patterson Court tradition

Last Friday, freshmen girls enjoyed a messy welcome to their new eating houses. Many other cultures enjoy food fights as
well, such as La Tomatina in Spain.

By ABBEY THIBEAULT
Staff Writer

Food fights featured in films like “Hook” and “National Lampoon’s Animal House” have long been the fantasy of students crammed
in cafeterias, like Commons. Fortunately (or unfortunately), social rules hamper this desire for most of the year. On the first
weekend of the second semester, the upperclassmen of three of Davidson College’s four eating houses welcome new members by dousing
them in condiments and sundae toppings. Many students look forward to court selection weekend and the messy relief it provides
after a tough first week of classes.

Similarly, every summer thousands of people flock to the town of Buñol in Valencia, Spain, for an enormous food fight.
Known as La Tomatina, an enormous tomato fight takes place each year on the last Wednesday in August. Last year,
over 30,000 people attended the festival, in a town with a population of just 9,000. Shopkeepers cover their storefronts with
plastic in preparation for the event.

Extremadura, a region in western Spain, provides the tomatoes, which are brought to the center of town on the morning
of the event. Finally, a large ham is placed on a tall greased pole, called a cockaigne. The fight begins
when a person climbs to the top of the cockaigne and collects the ham. Then, a cannon is fired and
the food fight begins. The brawl typically lasts 1-2 hours. A second cannon signals the end of the fight. Once
the tomato supply is exhausted, partakers run to the Buñol River to rinse off. The town sprays the street down
with water to clean up.

Participants are encouraged to wear goggles and gloves and there are strict rules which try to foster a safe environment.
It is forbidden, for example, to tear another person’s T-shirt or bring an outside weapon, such as a glass bottle,
into the arena. Most importantly, all tomatoes must be squished before they are thrown, to soften the blow. The rules
are almost always followed, as Buñol reports no major problems since the festival began in 1945.

The exact origin of La Tomatina remains unknown. Some believe La Tomatina began after a group of local children got
into a tomato fight with friends or that a fight erupted in the hilarious aftermath of a lorry spill. Others
claim the first tomato clash was part of a juvenile class war in Buñol. A few think the festival began
as a practical joke on a particularly poor musician. One of the most popular theories, though, describes a group of
disgruntled townspeople who decided to attack a group of city councilmen with a load of overripe tomatoes. No matter its
history, La Tomatina continues to grow, as townspeople and visitors enjoy the rush and mush of the tomato fight. History
repeats itself both in Buñol and at Davidson, as the thrill of a food fight never grows old.

Patricia REID
Staff Writer

According to the New York Times, fine piano playing incorporates temperament, taste, touch, and tone. Andreas Klein supersedes this definition,
praised by the newspaper as “a fascinating artist with all the indispensable qualities [...] The four T’s of pianism.”

Klein, a graduate of the Juilliard School, studied the Chopin Etudes for his dissertation. As a result, Chopin and other
classical composers still influence his playing. His repertoire features songs by Beethoven, Bach, and Ravel. Klein’s impressive performance résumé points
to his piano prowess, as he has performed with the Berlin Symphony and Radio Orchestras, the Stuttgart Radio Symphony, Halle
Orchestra, and the Carl Philip Emanuel Bach Chamber Orchestra in Frankfurt, Germany.

As the soloist for the Salzburg Chamber Soloists with Mozart Concerti, Klein gained experience by playing in over twenty locations
ranging from Mexico City to Denver, Colo.

Klein’s talents are not found in the field of piano playing alone; he is eagerly sought after for his skill
as a recording engineer and his knowledge in classical music production. During the last few summer seasons, Klein has served
as Director of Audio Recording at the American Festival for the Arts in Houston.

He visits Davidson tonight as part of the 2009-10 Concert Series season. The concert begins at 7:30 in the Tyler-Tallman
Hall of Sloan Music Center.

Wed. 1/20 Thur. 1/21 Fri. 1/22 Sat. 1/23 Sun. 1/24 Mon. 1/25 Tue. 1/26
Dean Rusk Travel “The Ethics of Gossip” Roundtable
Grant Info Session Duke/Davidson in Discussion “Annavel and the “Annavel and the 2010 Otts Maloney
Duke 112, Berlin Info Session Union Rm. 302, Funny Little Man: Funny Little Man: Artist Series: Lectures:
7 p.m. Chambers 1003, 4-5 p.m. A Rumpelstiltskin A Rumpelstiltskin “The Opera Show” -- Curtis Evans,
4-5 p.m. Tale” Tale” An MTV presentation “Black and White
Barber Theatre, Barber Theatre, of Opera’s greatest hits Christians in the Ra-
Concert Series: Bank of America Info “Annavel and the 3 showings: 3 showings: Duke Family Perfor- cial Struggles”
Andreas Klein Session Funny Little Man: 10:30 a.m., 2:30 p.m. 12:30 p.m., 2:30 p.m. mance Hall, 900 Room,
Tyler-Tallman Hall, 900 Room, A Rumpelstiltskin & 4:30 p.m. & 4:30 p.m. 8 p.m. 1 p.m.
Sloan Music Center, 7-8:30 p.m. Tale”.
7:30 p.m. Barber Theatre,

4:30 & 7 p.m.
