THE DAVIDSONIAN

fuel ’Cats’ victory

ZACHARY ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

Davidson went 1-1 on Friday evening as they defeated Millersville by a score of 27-23 and dropped a match to Virginia Military Institute 37-4.

Davidson faced off against Millersville first on Friday. After two forfeits in the 133 and 141 pound weight classes, Vitaly Radsky ’11 wrestled up one weight class in the 149 pound spot to reach a 3-2 decision. This gave Davidson an early 15-0 lead. Despite getting off to a great start, Millersville rallied back when Jarret Hostetter, formerly nationally ranked, pinned Joe McGinley ’11.

Tyler Mullen ’12 reextended the Davidson lead to twelve points when he won a 4-2 decision. After Millersville captured the next three bouts, Davidson trailed Millersville 23-18 but ended up winning in dramatic fashion. Charlie Wolff ’11 answered the call in clutch fashion when he won in a 3-1 overtime decision to bring Davidson within two points. To secure the win, Ben Altmann ’10 sealed the victory with a pin in one minute and forty seconds in the 125 pound weight class. Davidson took the match 27-23 as a result.

The next match against Virginia Military Institute was not as successful, however. Mullen was the only Davidson wrestler who won his bout and Davidson fell 37-4, declining to 2-11 overall and 0-2 in the SoCon. On Wednesday, Davidson will face UNC Greensboro in Greensboro, N.C. at 7 p.m.

Abernethy Endowment

Again this year, funds from the George L. Abernethy Endowment will be available to support worthy initiatives by current first-year, sophomore, or junior students. [It is possible for us to fund a senior who expects to complete all research work prior to graduation.] Individual awards fall into one of the following categories:

1) Independent student research in the humanities or social sciences, either in the US or abroad.

2) Cross-cultural study opportunities for students during the academic year or the summer.

[At the request of the donor, applications are limited to projects that fall within the humanities and social sciences.]

Application forms are available at http://inside.davidson.edu/committees/faculty/Faculty%20Forms/Forms/AllItems.aspx or in the Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs (Chambers 1283). Completed application forms are due back in this office no later than 5:00 p.m. on Thursday, February 25, 2010. The announcement of awards should occur prior to the exam period of the spring semester.

SPORTS

Wildcat Pulse

Altman ’10, Wolff ’11

found w wad ot ‘the foul line, Davidson’s $$:2% (16-29) ‘from the charity stripe-was poor. but still sufficient to to better the. Eagles, who shot:

pounding the glass and out-rebounding Georgia Southern by a 42-26 margin. The Eagle

day. when the Catamounts. came to town: Davidson shot a putrid 4-27 from the floor in the

halftime lead. Allison had three of Davidson’s four first-half field goals as the Wild

gin to ten with 14 minutes to play. After the Catamounts built a 60-47 lead, the Wildcat

man with IL Rossiter and Archambault gave strong efforts on the rebounding front, pull

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2010

11

Men’s Basketball vs. College of Charleston
Thursday 7 p.m.
Belk Arena

The Wildcats welcome the first-place Cougars for the annual Blackout Belk event. Fans are encouraged to wear black as Davidson tries to knock Charleston out of first place in the standings. Last season, the Cougars defeated the Wildcats in the SoCon tournament semifinals.

Outside the Den

College Basketball
#8 Duke @ #7 Georgetown
Saturday 1 p.m.

Coming off their first road win of the season Saturday against Clemson, the Blue Devils travel to the nation’s capital to take on the Hoyas. Georgetown is led by sophomore Greg Monroe who averages a double-double (15.2 ppg, 10.4 rpg) while Duke counters with senior Jon Scheyer (18.6 ppg).

Wildcats win 13 of 16 events in final home meet of season

ANNA STOCKAMORE
Staff Writer

The Davidson swimming and diving team had much to celebrate Saturday afternoon. On top of honoring the team’s graduating seniors Linnea Buttermore, Kelsey Chisholm, Caitlin Sheetz, Caroline Curtiss, Brad Carman and Miller Williams, the Wildcat Women went 4-0 for the day.

The Wildcats easily defeated Campbell University, Radford University, Georgia Southern University and NC A&T University. Lindsey Martin ’11 swept the 50, 100 and 200 yard freestyle races while her classmate Jessica Delgehausen ’11 claimed the 500 and 1000 yard events, the latter of which was a season-best time.

Kelsi Hobbs ’13 dominated both distances of the backstroke category, taking first in the 100 and 200 yard distances. Emily Castle ’11 won the 100 fly and Curtiss took first in the 100 breast. Davidson also swept the relays, winning both the 200 medley and the 400 freestyle relays.

On the board, the ’Cats did equally as well. Buttermore took first in the 1 meter and 3 meter competitions and Chisholm took second and third, respectively.

The ’Cats finish their regular season this Saturday as they travel to Boiling Springs, NC to take on the Bulldogs of Gardner-Webb. The meet is set to start at 1 p.m.

Linnea Buttermore ’10 prepares for her dive in Saturday’s meet. Buttermore won both the one-meter and three-meter events in the final home meet of her career.