Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PANEL DISCUSSES Hip-Hop AND AMERICAN CULTURE

Members of Kappa Alpha Psi and the Black Student Coalition join Kwain Bryant of Empowerment Exchange to explore the influence
of hip-hop on American culture. See NEWS, page 3.

STEPPING UP: START THE SHOW

The 4th Annual Apocalypse Greek Step Show hits the stage of DFPH this Friday with “Revelation of the Divine.” See
this week’s events calendar for more information and check out a full review of the show in next week’s Davidsonian.
See ARTS, page 6.

WATTS NOTCHES 100TH WIN IN SoCon PLAY

Monica Laune ’10 breezes past a defender as the ’Cats split games against UNCG and Elon. With Saturday’s win over
UNCG, Head Coach Annette Watts picked up her 100th SoCon “W.” See SPORTS, page 12.

INSIDE THIS

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2010

www.thedavidsonian.com

VOLUME 101, NUMBER 16

Special Report: SGA election miscues bring reform

Brian Park
Managing Editor

Last week, students voted for a new administration of the Student Government Association. Amid the celebrations for the newly elected
officers was a controversy that exposed the shortcomings of the SGA bylaws. Two candidates in the race were disqualified, much
to the ignorance of the student body. Of these two candidates, one has gone public with his situation, Faheem Rathore
’12. His specific case has demonstrated the flaws of SGA’s constitution.

Rathore was running for the position of SGA vice-president. Prior to an all-candidates meeting, he contacted the presidents of two
eating houses to ask for permission to speak at those houses. Later in the day, Rathore attended the mandatory all-candidates
meeting and learned that any campaigning prior to that meeting is forbidden. Rathore informed the Elections Council, composed of Billy
Hackenson ’13, John Merrill ’13, and current SGA President Meikaela Zwieryznski ’09, of his actions. He also contacted the presidents
of the eating houses to inform them to disregard his previous email. Upon notifying the Elections Council of his offense,
the Chairperson ruled, without consulting the other Council members, that Rathore’s punishment would be a 24-hour probation from campaigning, effectively
giving him a day less to campaign. Rathore agreed to the ruling and waited until the next day to resume
campaigning.

On February 1, the first round of voting for the vice-presidency of SGA occurred. Rathore campaigned vigorously and built a
strong following. The polls closed at 10:00 p.m., but after 11:00 p.m. Rathore received an email informing him that he
could potentially be disqualified. The SGA bylaws clearly state, “Violation of any campaign regulation results in disqualification,” and Rathore’s email
to the presidents of two eating houses was being considered as campaigning. After 12:50 a.m., Rathore received an email informing
him of his disqualification.

This incident has exposed many faults in the current SGA bylaws. The first problem is the definition of campaigning. What
constitutes as “campaigning?” Rathore emailed the eating house presidents for permission to speak with them later, but he did not
explicitly promote his candidacy. The rules of SGA do not explicitly answer what is to be considered campaigning, making the
very nature of Rathore’s offense subjective.

Another controversy is why Rathore was punished twice. He was first given the 24-hour probation and then later disqualified. “I
would rather have just been disqualified,” Rathore said of his two punishments. SGA President Meikaela Zwieryznski explained, “The probation was
not allowed in the SGA bylaws,” thus making the probation nothing more than an arbitrary and unofficial punishment. Dean Tom
Shandley, de facto adviser to the SGA, further elaborated.

See Elections, page 3.by Bill Giduz

Promoters from local restaurants hand out samples of their cuisine at Saturday’s Souper Bowl.

Harmon ’10 deliberates ethics of Wal-Mart

KELLY WILSON
Staff Writer

Last Thursday, an Ethics Forum sponsored by Davidson’s Vann Center for Ethics hosted Marjie Harmon ’10, who presented a condensed
version of her senior thesis entitled “Sam Walton’s Gospel Meets the Christian Gospel: Theological Analysis of Wal-Mart’s Remuneration Practices.” The
paper is this year’s winner of the Religion Department’s prestigious Maloney Prize. Harmon also presented her research at the North
Carolina Religious Studies Association, and they will publish it this year.

“Wal-Mart has become a lightning rod of societal conflict and debate, with poll results indicating that the American people have
deeply divided attitudes toward this multi-national retailer,” Harmon said. “Yet responsible citizens, and in particular, responsible Christians cannot simply resign
themselves to an ambivalent attitude given the unfathomable magnitude and influence this corporate giant has.”

Not only is Wal-Mart the world’s largest corporation, but it is also the largest private employer. Harmon cited one statistic
which noted that one third of Americans shop at Wal-Mart each week, and in 2003, 82 percent of households purchased
merchandise from this retailer. “To some degree, the economic health of the entire economy hinges upon the success of its
largest retailer,” Harmon said. “Its sales volumes for a single day last fall came in ahead of the GDPs of
36 countries.

“A Christian-based analysis of this company requires a theological examination of the way in which Wal-Mart’s conduct affects the well-being
of God’s creation and God’s creatures,” she continued. “The level at which Wal-Mart compensates its workforce influences its other business
practices.”

Citing several theologians including John A. Ryan, Walter Rauschenbusch, Judith Brady, and Christine Hinze, Harmon pointed out that in general
these thinkers “insisted that every laborer has the right to at least a decent livelihood. For Rauschenbusch, fair wages constituted
a manifestation of justice on the personal level. Unjust pay practices ‘break down workers’ nerves, their mental buoyancy and their
character. A truly just remuneration practice requires a wage that allows workers to live a healthy existence. Modern-day theologians have
more explicitly defined a living wage as the salary that ensures adequate healthcare coverage for the laborer.”

Brady and Hinze argued that “any wage that fails to secure adequate healthcare coverage for the laborer falls short of
the Christian justice standard.”

Despite these philosophies that focus on the necessity for a fair wage earned by individuals, Harmon illustrated that a fair
analysis of Wal-Mart’s payment policies must also include a consideration of the overall social benefit the company provides to society.
“Wal-Mart delivers substantial overall social benefits in the form of lower prices,” she said. “The Bureau of Economic Research now
credits Wal-Mart with driving down the inflation rate by upwards of 15 percent, meaning that all Americans substantially profit from
its low pricing commitment.”

In particular, the main beneficiaries of Wal-Mart’s low prices are the poor, without whom Wal-Mart would not be able to
afford many of the products it stocks. Wal-Mart’s growth has caused an increase in the standard of living for many
people. This is the basis of Harmon’s central question. “Wal-Mart marks up its products by mere pennies and passes those
savings along to the consumer in the form of lower prices,” Harmon explained. “Given the social good Wal-Mart achieves on
behalf of the poor, and its redistribution of gains in the form of lower prices, the question remains, ‘How do
Christian-based ethics sort through this myriad of compet-”

See Walmart, page 4
