4 THE DAVIDSONIAN News WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2010

‘Loneliness in Red’ kicks off Dean Rusk series

KELLY WILSON
Staff Writer

On Tuesday, the Cunningham Theatre Center welcomed the paintings of visiting Lebanese artist Helen Karam. The exhibition opening celebrated her
series entitled “Loneliness in Red,” which features paintings depicting women alone. Live Middle Eastern music from musician Marwan al-Najjar and
catered Middle Eastern food were provided.

The art exhibition is just one event in a larger series on campus right now called “Voices of Middle Eastern
Women: Women’s Lives in Arts and Culture.” The series includes a lecture on Thursday in the C. Shaw Smith 900
Room by Lisa Pollard, Professor of History and Co-Coordinator of Middle East Studies at UNC Wilmington. Her talk will highlight
the disparity between ‘Westerners’ perceptions and portrayals of Middle Eastern women and the realities of their experiences. Both Karam and
Pollard will be having lunch on Thursday in Commons for those interested in joining them for lively discussion.

Next Thursday, a panel discussion with Davidson College faculty Rebecca Joubin (Arabic), Jacqueline Brinton (Religion), Joyce Dalsheim (UNC Charlotte Professor
of Anthropology) and Kathryn Johnson (Director of UNC Charlotte Islamic Studies Interdisciplinary Program) will take place in Tyler-Tallman Hall. These
women will be drawing on their personal and research experiences to elucidate what it means to be a woman in
the Middle East.

The Theatre Department’s production of “Nine Parts of Desire” will conclude the series from Feb. 17 to Feb. 20 at
7:30 p.m., and Feb. 21 at 2:00 p.m. in the Barber Theatre. The production, which is directed by Associate Professor
of Theatre Dr. Sharon Green, will explore the lives of several Iraqi women, including an artist, a doctor, a young
girl and an exile. Comprised of a series of interwoven monologues, the play provides a more intricate portrayal of Iraqi
women than what is typically suggested by the media.

The entire series “Voices of Middle Eastern Women” was initiated by Green, who initially approached Director of the Dean Rusk
International Studies Program Dr. Christopher Alexander and Assistant to the Director Larissa Hohe with the suggestion that the Dean Rusk
Office consider co-sponsorship of the series. “We sat down over coffee at Summit last summer and brainstormed about what kinds
of events we thought we could do to supplement the play, which was already on the theatre schedule,” Hohe explained.
“In the fall, we sat down with Brad Thomas in the Art Department, Rebecca Joubin in the Arabic Department, Jonathan
Berkey in the History Department and Jackie Brinton in the Religion Department to put things into motion.

It’s that time again
Lottery advice from the Health Advisors

THE HEALTH ADVISORS
Guest Columnists

It may not be Mega Millions or Powerball, but Davidson students have a lot riding on the Davidson Housing Lottery.
A single number has the power to determine where, with whom and, essentially, how a student will live for an
entire year. As health advisers, we recognize the stress that Davidson students face day to day. However, we see the
stress levels across campus spike right around lottery time. From students scrambling to finish study abroad applications to rushing to
find an off-campus house to trying to tell their roommates that they want to live with someone else, so much
goes on (and so much can go wrong) when it comes to housing.

Associate Dean of Students and one of the masterminds behind the housing lottery, Patty Perillo, recognizes the difficulties students face.
“Of course I hope that everyone gets to live where and with whom they want, but of course that can’t
happen in reality,” she said. In her experience, she has seen tensions run highest when students are waiting in line
for housing. “When students are standing in line, waiting to make a choice, watching their options decrease, that can really
cause emotions to run high in students. Constantly having to renegotiate becomes difficult,” she said.

However, waiting in line is not the only component of the lottery that causes serious tension. Getting a 4-person senior
apartment when students have 5 in their group, students telling their roommates at the last minute that they want to
live with someone else, or not getting a single and finding oneself roommate-less at the eleventh hour can all send
stress levels skyrocketing.

So what can students do? We health advisers have put together a few pieces of advice to help Davidson students
keep their heads (as much as possible) during this difficult time. The first is to keep an open mind. If
a student sets his or her heart solely on one housing option, the disappointment that follows will be devastating. Secondly,
communicate often.and communicate openly. It’s difficult to think about not getting that 5-person apartment, but if students talk about the
possibility and make a plan amongst their group beforehand, it can eliminate a lot of tension later. Same with roommates—if
a student doesn’t plan on living with his or her current roommate again, the best thing to do is to
tell him or her early. And lastly, students shouldn’t stress more than they have to! The lottery is tough, there’s
a lot that can go wrong, but stressing about it won’t make anything easier. To help students along the path
to a stress-free lottery, Residence Life has made some changes to ease tensions among students. Perillo said that this year,
Res Life has sent out more reminders about lottery events to get people thinking and making decisions ahead of time,
increased the time between the 5-person apartment lotteries and 4-person apartment lotteries, and created “social networking” events for students looking
for roommates. “The changes we’re making this year are a result of recommendations made by students, so we hope they
minimize the tensions as much as possible,” she said. With the new Residence Life policies and a calm, open-minded attitude
going in, the 2010 lottery is sure to go as smoothly as possible for Davidson students. And even though housing
is important, it’s equally important to remember that a meaningful college experience relies on so much more than a lottery
number. Need more support? Feel free to contact the Health Advisers, Residence Life, or the Counseling Center.

We came up with an artist for the exhibition, a musician for the play, and additional contacts for a panel
event.” The outcome of these conversations was a series of events sponsored by the Dean Rusk International Studies Program, the
Department of Theatre, the Van Every/Smith Galleries, the Art Department, Davidson College Friends of the Arts, the Religion Department, and
the Arabic Program. “We hope that, through the play and the related events, students and the greater community will come
away with a greater understanding of what it means to be a woman in the Middle East in the 20th
and 21st centuries, that there is no one experience and that they don’t always conform to the stereotypes that the
West has placed on them,” Hohe said. “All of the programs have been put in place to supplement ‘Nine Parts
of Desire’ and give people a better historical and cultural context for what they’ll see depicted in the play.”

In step with economic developments, in contrast to developed countries where emissions remain high but may not increase gradually, with
a growing number of emissions in developing countries, and to create jobs in the process, advocates have emphasized “conservation and
efficiency” with energy consumption. In terms of transportation, which is a leading contributor of CO2 emissions, Koonin encouraged universal use
of CAFE (Corporate Average Fuel Economy) standards, the downsizing of vehicle size, full driving cost transparency, novel and alternative vehicle
technologies implementation, internal combustion engines improvements, battery advancements, regulatory incentives, Federal and State agency transparency, and funding for a smarter
electric grid system. Koonin also suggested that the United States consistently diversify its unconventional fuels portfolio by increasing the use
of bio-fuels derived from corn and algae, and implementing renewable fuel standards. He noted that natural gas will supplant coal,
but it becomes increasingly difficult to “coax out” gas from depleted reserves. Forty to 50 years from now, warned Koonin,
domestic natural gas supplies will have diminished, leading to a potential energy crisis. In his State of the Union address,
President Obama called for new energy sources since they are not yet cost-effective. Likewise, he noted, the United States must
lead efforts to reduce CO2 emissions.

1/24/10 Larceny
Estimated Property Loss: $300
On Sunday, January 24, 2010, between 1200 hrs and 1900 hrs, unknown person(s) removed an Apple iPod Touch 32 Gig
MP4 from the sink shelving in the communal restroom showers located on the second floor of Irwin Dormitory. The iPod
was the property of a Davidson College student. The victim stated that he last knew the iPod was secured at
1200 hrs on Sunday, January 24, 2010. The value of the iPod was estimated at $300.00.

1/29/10 Larceny
On Friday, January 29, 2010, Officer Thompson was contacted by a Davidson student in reference to a missing TV and
Xbox from 112 Patterson Ct. Cir., PDT house. The reporting person stated that the TV and Xbox were taken between
0130 hrs and 1145 hrs on Friday, January 29, 2010. More specifically, the television was at least 50 inches in
width. Officers ask that anyone knowing anything please contact us at 704-894-7118.
