DAVIDSON COLLEGE CELEBRATING THE Legacy OF MLK

Chief Justice Henry Frye and Charlotte mayor Anthony Foxx ’93 (above center) highlight MLK Day speakers. Monday’s festivities began with a “Unity Walk for Change” and concluded with a performance by the Davidson College Gospel Choir. See inside for details from more MLK Day events. see NEWS, page 3

ABAKANOWICZ EXHIBITION OPENS TO AN IMPRESSIVE AUDIENCE

Carey Leigh Evans reviews Polish sculptor, Magdalena Abakanowicz’s recently unveiled exhibition in Van Every Gallery. see ARTS, page 5

NEW YEAR, SAME SEASON

Will Archambault ’10 drives to the basket in a win against Penn over Christmas Break. See where the ’Cats stand after the break and how they fared against two S.C. rivals last week. see SPORTS, page 12

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2010

Starting and ending on the steps of Chambers, Martin Luther King Jr. Day began with the Unity Walk for Change, sponsored by Alpha Phi Alpha, Kappa Alpha Psi, and Alpha Kappa Alpha. photo by Bill Giduz

JOHN EVANS Staff Writer reporting on all MLK Day events at Davidson

On Monday, people came together across the nation to celebrate the life and works of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. In Davidson, North Carolina, students, faculty, and community members joined in Martin Luther King, Jr. Day activities organized by Dean Ernest Jeffries. “What we try to do with MLK Day is to have events that will touch a wide range of ages,” he said, “And also some things that would draw the community outside of the College as well as the College community together around celebrating who Dr. King was and what he’s meant to us all.”

For Jeffries, the day provided an opportunity to raise awareness about the man who spoke about “freedom and equality and about coming together, not only for African American people, but for everybody.” The day began early at 9:30 AM in front of Richardson Stadium with the Martin Luther King Jr. Unity Walk for Change, sponsored by Alpha Phi Alpha, Kappa Alpha Psi, and Alpha Kappa Alpha. Megan Lisa ’10 described the walk as “a time to come together and celebrate. A time for unity.” More than simply a morning stroll, the walk symbolized “a very similar march that was in D.C.

Ed Kania promoted to VP of Business

KELLY WILSON Staff Writer

President Tom Ross recently appointed College Controller and Director of Business Services Ed Kania to Vice President of Business and Finance. Kania will replace Karen Goldstein, who is retiring. At their meeting on Jan. 30, the Board of Trustees will ratify Kania’s appointment to this position, which is essentially the college’s Chief Financial Officer (CFO).

As College Controller, Kania was responsible for managing a variety of areas including accounting, audits, banking, budgeting, Central Services, financial projections, Purchasing, Post Office, short-term investments, and taxes. His new position encompasses a larger and more strategic role that includes overseeing about 300 employees in the offices and services of the Physical Plant, Business Services, Human Resources, Investments, Information Technology, and Services and Auxiliary Services (Bookstores, Dining Services, the Guest House, and Laundry).

Kania will report directly to President Ross and will handle the college’s $100-million annual operating budget as well as the $420-million endowment, which funds financial aid and professorships. His office will be located in the South Wing of Chambers.

One challenge he faces is ensuring that people don’t treat him differently. “I want people to understand that I’m not different personally,” he said. “I want to be in touch with them. I don’t want to do everything through channels. I still want people to stop me on the way across campus and talk to me about what’s going on. My job is different — it’s a big job — but I’m the same person.”

Kania’s goals include “keeping everyone connected with the mission of the college and understanding the role each person plays in supporting the high qualityeduca- that made history,” according to Britney Pillsbury '12. Nevertheless, Kiara Boone '11 admitted, “The Monday morning exercise doesn’t hurt either.” Students were not the only participants in the walk, which Jeffries described as a way to “get some folks to come out and walk with them just to show unity in the Greek community on campus.” Professor of Anthropology Matt Samson, who grew up in Louisiana during the desegregation period, characterized the walk as “a time to reflect on what it means to live across social boundaries. We live in a different era of activism, but See Walk, page 2

tional environment,” he said. Both of these objectives are key to the maintenance of the college’s successful financial condition, especially in difficult economic times. “To me what’s exciting about my job is being able to do what I do in a place where I understand the effect that it has on the mission. The only way you can stay in touch with the mission of a college is by getting to know the students. You have to understand the amazing qualities students bring to the place — how hard they work here, the things they accomplish at Davidson and beyond — that’s what energizes me,” he continued. “It makes it real for me. The end result of everything I do is a tiny little fragment of having students walk across the stage in four years, and that’s what makes me excited.” His outlook on the everyday financial management that his job entails is positive. “As I move into my new role, I do so feeling confident in the way the college’s

www.thedavidsonian.com

VOLUME 101, NUMBER 13

Winter Fest
Katie Lovett
Staff Writer

Thanks to the collaborative effort of the Union Board, Patterson Court Council and the Student Government Association, Saturday January 23rd will mark Davidson College’s first annual Winter Fest. From 10 PM to 3 AM students can come to the Union to take advantage of an event that has been in the works since September. The committee of students responsible for planning Winter Fest has designed an event that will completely take over the Union, with hopes of attracting all types of Davidson students. Up-and-coming artists Mike Posner and Chiddy Bang will perform in the atrium soon after the event begins, with a DJ set to follow their performances beginning at midnight. Students will be able to lounge in beanbag chairs and watch episodes of Entourage and Sex and the City in Room 313. The 900 Room bar will be open for those over 21 and there will also be a game of Jeopardy from 10 to 12 followed by karaoke from 12 to 3. In addition to the free food and drinks that will be offered, the ever-popular After Midnight Union Board event will also be providing free Chick-fil-A. The third floor will also feature a raffle with prizes including a Wii, an HD flat screen television, and gift cards from iTunes, Summit and See Winter Fest, page 3

and Finance endowment investments are being managed,” he said. A number of decisions were made in 2009 that reduced the overall risk of the portfolio while providing strong investment performance. Although the economic downturn negatively affected the college’s endowment, careful financial management and fundraising have allowed Davidson to remain in a stable position. “The good news is that the college was already operating with a philosophy of fiscal prudence and responsibility,” Kania said. “We are used to doing more with fewer resources than many of our peers. We have maintained a very low level of debt, and we have a strong credit rating. We also are very fortunate to have generous donors,” he continued. “More than 60% of our alumni give to the college every year, making us one of the top five schools in the country in that regard, and that includes the Ivy League. Even dur- See Kania, page 4