THE DAVIDSONIAN

Alvarez, from page 1

students, while also allowing them to graduate without debt. To show their support for the Davidson Trust, the Student Government
Association’s External Affairs Committee has put together a fundraiser, scheduled for Saturday, Feb. 13 from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m.
Located in Vail Commons and served by PS, the student cooking organization. Guests will be treated to dinner, dancing, and
performances by student a capella groups and the Davidson Jazz Band. In addition, Ross, Davidson Mayor John Woods, and Davidson
College President Emeritus John Kuykendall ‘59, will all be speaking to the guests, as will Davidson Trust beneficiaries. Tickets for
the benefit dinner are $50 for a pair or $30 each, and are available at the Ticket Office in the
Union or online at www.davidson.edu/tickets. All proceeds go directly to the Davidson Trust.

Left, President Tom Ross ’73 and donor and trustee Carlos Alvarez say “cheers” Friday after Ross announced Alvarez’s $10 million
gift to establish the Alvarez Scholars Program for international students.

Infecting you are slim to none: That said, genital herpes, or HSV2, is a different story. Although it’s transmitted the
same way, it is a life-altering disease without a cure. Genital herpes can be spread through all sexual contact, including
oral sex, leaving you with a nasty case of HSV2 in your nether regions. If you’re worried you may have
contracted either strain, please visit the Health Center during your next outbreak. Medications are available that will help reduce discomfort
and the risk of transmission.

To ask your most burning questions about relationships, sex, drugs, alcohol, mental health, and anything else you might encounter while
at Davidson! Every week, we’ll address one or two topics submitted anonymously to our e-mail address, healthadvisors@davidson.edu.

Although genital herpes does exist on Davidson’s campus, our rates are consistent with other college campuses. If you’re worried about
oral herpes (HSV1), don’t be, because you probably already have it. The majority of the population contracts it during childhood,
and other than the occasional cold sore, there’s not much to worry about. To further ease your worries, herpes can
only be transmitted through skin-to-skin or sexual contact. The chances of herpes infecting you are slim to none.

The Health Advisor

Jim’s career-long track record of achieving successful results for his clients has earned him recognition throughout NC and among his
peers in the legal field nationwide. He has been named to the Best Lawyers in America publication consistently for the
past 23 years and was recently named as one of the Top Super Lawyers in the state of North Carolina.
As a former NC Court of Appeals Judge, Jim Fuller is a widely respected trial lawyer known throughout the State
for his commitment to justice and his exceptional litigation skills. With 32 years of courtroom experience, he has dedicated his
legal practice to helping people who have been injured by the negligent or criminal conduct of others. Jim and his
wife Jean live in Spinnaker Cove and attend the Davidson United Methodist Church. A member of the Lions Club, Jim
also serves on the boards of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidson Lands Conservancy, and the Davidson Community Players and was
recently appointed to the Town Planning Board.

Prosser D. “Sandy” Carnegie has spent almost 30 years representing clients who have suffered substantial injuries due to another person's
negligence or criminal conduct, always with the client's best interest above all else. Sandy is well qualified in other areas
of the law including contract preparation and review, residential and commercial closings, land development and acquisition as well as zoning.
Sandy is licensed to practice before all state and federal courts in North Carolina and Virginia. In addition to his
many responsibilities as an attorney, Sandy is dedicated to his family and to his community. Sandy, a Davidson native, and
his wife, Robbie, currently live in the family homeplace. Sandy and Robbie have two grown children, Annie and Prosser. Sandy
served many years as a commissioner with the Town of Davidson, has served on various Town of Davidson committees, he
is a member of Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is a member of Williams Masonic Lodge 176, A.F. & A.M., and
has coached youth football, basketball, and baseball in the Davidson, Cornelius, and Mooresville communities.

THE McINTOSH LAW FIRM LITIGATIONPERSONAL INJURY : Exceptional Attorneys... Close to Home
REAL ESTATE * WILLS & TRUSTS
209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill)
Davidson, NC 28036
(704) 892-1699
www.mcintoshlawfirm.com
APPEALS * BANKRUPTCY * BUSINESS LAW
COLLECTIONS * ESTATE PLANNING

John Evans
Staff Writer

Monday night at 7:30 in the 900 Room, Dr. Steven Koonin delivered a lecture entitled “Addressing America’s Energy Challenges: Science,
Politics, and the Global Search for Alternative Energy” as part of the Henry Louis Smith Lecture Series. This year, the
Smith Lecture Series forms part of the ongoing Bank of America Lecture Series, sponsored by the Dean Rusk International Studies
Program and Bank of America.

Koonin, as Under Secretary of Science for the U.S. Department of Energy, supervises all of the Department’s research and serves
as the primary scientific advisor to the Secretary of Energy. His position places him at the center of the effort
to identify alternative energy sources. A theoretical physicist by training, Koonin has served as Chief Scientist for British Petroleum—where he
helped the company move beyond petroleum—and as provost at the California Institute of Technology. According to President Tom Ross, Koonin
provided a “perfect fit” for the Lecture Series, since his expertise offered students “rich interdisciplinary opportunities” in the debate on
global energy concerns.

Koonin stressed the importance that the voice of science must lead the debate about global warming. He used graphs and
visuals to organize scientific data in a presentable fashion, and chose language accessible to all present in the auditorium. In
his outline of basic energy strategies, Koonin first emphasized the necessity of “energy security.” Since transportation expends much of the
world’s liquid hydrocarbons reserves—in layman’s terms, petroleum—Koonin advocated a “reliable and economic” supply of liquid hydrocarbons. Petroleum largely contributes to
greenhouse gas (CO2) emissions that are released into the atmosphere due to the burning of fossil fuels from transportation, electric
power, and heating. Transportation itself is fueled almost exclusively by crude-derived liquid hydrocarbons.

Koonin cited the global emissions rate as two to three percent per year. Emissions levels indicate how fast carbons enter
the atmosphere. These levels do not specify the total amount of carbon in the atmosphere, but the atmospheric concentration of
carbon. Human-generated CO2 emissions create what Koonin called “perturbations in the natural flow of carbon.” Carbon emissions cycle constantly between
the atmosphere and the earth in a natural process, but human activities disturb this process by slowly inflating the cycle’s
carbon concentration. Each year, humans release 15 billion tons of carbon into the atmosphere. Koonin predicted a scenario in which
the high concentration of carbon in the atmosphere could drastically affect the earth’s environment. At the current rate, by the
year 2050 humans will have released enough CO2 to create an atmospheric carbon concentration of roughly 780 parts per million
(ppm).

Koonin argued that the atmosphere cannot afford a carbon concentration higher than 550 ppm. To alter this potential scenario, Koonin
called for “drastic” changes to stabilize the atmospheric carbon concentration rather than the “modest” changes now in place, which will
not prevent the current 2050 mark of 780 ppm. On average, Koonin stated, each person releases four tons of CO2
per year into the atmosphere. In keeping with a 550 ppm carbon concentration, we must reduce this average to around
one ton. Since demographic experts estimate that the population worldwide will increase to nine billion by 2050, the need to
reduce emissions becomes all the more immediate.

Beyond the environmental implications of CO2 emissions, high energy consumption causes economic constraints. In the United States, which consumes 20
percent of global energy supplies, nearly 50 percent of all energy consumption derives from coal; 20 percent comes from nuclear
fission, 20 percent from natural gas, and three percent from renewable energy sources. Buildings alone use up 40 percent of
total U.S. energy consumption, with 22 percent from residential spaces and 18 percent from commercial usage.

The U.S. imports roughly 60 percent of its liquid hydrocarbon supply. This high import level leaves the United States’ economy
vulnerable to economic and political threats from abroad. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) is composed of 13 oil-producing
nations, with most located in the Middle East. This organization consumes 40 percent of the world’s energy supplies. These easily
exploited crude resources are concentrated geographically and politically. Since the near monopoly of oil business in these...

See Energy, page 4
