4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

CAROLINE WOOD
News Editor

On Monday, theologian Shane Claiborne delivered Davidson’s annual Staley Lecture, speaking on “Radical Community: Celebrating Jesus’ Prophetic Imagination.” Campus chaplain Rob Spach welcomed the audience to the event, explaining that the Staley Lecture Series was endowed in 1970 by Thomas Staley ’24, who wanted to use his resources to create opportunities “to further the evangelical witness of the Christian church.” Jessica Degelhausen ’11, one of the organizers of the lecture, then introduced Claiborne.

The best-selling author of five books, including “Follow Me To Freedom: Leading and Following as an Ordinary Radical,” which was published by Regal Books in 2009, Claiborne is also the founder of the Simple Way, an intentional faith community in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

Claiborne began his talk with an anecdote from his recent travels, when a fellow airplane passenger asked what he did for a living. Claiborne explained that when he said he was a preacher, his neighbor joked, “They must not make preachers like they used to.”

Claiborne said that the man then began to talk about a current apocalypse, and Claiborne commented that although he “may have been reading too many Tim LaHaye books,” “I do think these are interesting times we are living in.” “People are saying, ‘Maybe there’s a different dream other than the American dream,’” he continued. “We’re invited to have a new imagination about the world we live in.”

Claiborne’s suggestion of imagination echoes his emphasis on creativity in the Christian faith and way of life. He said that Jesus’ creativity allowed him to “transcend the questions” of his detractors. Demonstrating his point with a reading from Luke chapter seven, Claiborne said, “Jesus is always fascinating people with his love,” adding that Jesus was “rarely forcing that down their throat.”

Next, Claiborne contrasted this gentle approach with a recent study in which non-Christians were asked to name their impressions of Christians. The top three answers were that Christians were anti-homosexual, judgmental, and hypocritical. “We have a little bit of an image crisis, and much of it is very well deserved,” he said. “We want a Christianity that reminds the world of Jesus again.”

Turning his attention to the widespread emphasis many religious leaders place on doctrine, Claiborne said, “I think the things we believe are important,” but what is more important is “the way our beliefs work themselves out in love and action.” Claiborne then cited Matthew chapter 25, in which Jesus asks his disciples a series of questions about their good deeds on earth. Claiborne pointed out that these questions are not issues of doctrine, but of action.

“What are these peculiar marks of God’s holy counter-culture?” Claiborne asked. He compared this radicalism with the lifestyle practiced by the Amish. “Their seeming irrelevance is seeming more and more relevant to our world,” he said, reminding the audience of the Amish community’s response to the school shooting in 2006. “It fascinated the world with grace,” he said.

Claiborne then began a discussion about the attitudes that have proven to be core values in his community, The Simple Way. “We are to move ourselves closer to suffering, rather than away from it,” he said, explaining their decision to settle in a dangerous neighborhood of Philadelphia. He explained that the community shares their economic resources according to the model of the early church. “They ended poverty because they had this reckless vision that they were born again,” he said. “We’re not talking about an ‘ism’ but an economy that is rooted radically in love.” In a world of love, Claiborne said, “Marxism won’t be necessary and capitalism as we know it won’t be possible.”

He then stressed the importance of diversity and racial reconciliation for the Christian faith, citing an example of Mexican and American Christians who meet at a border wall to worship together, tossing communion over the boundary. Claiborne then elaborated on the Christian responsibility of environmental stability, warning the audience to resist theologies that do not value caring for creation. “Bringing dead things to life and making ugly things beautiful is part of what God is,” he said.

The lecture concluded with Claiborne’s vision of Christianity’s future place in the world. When people are asked what they think of Christians, “they will say justice, grace, peace, and compassion. May it be so.”

Wal-Mart, from page 1

“Should the collective societal good Wal-Mart achieves trump any analysis of whether the company pays adequate wages and proper benefits?” According to Christian ethicists, the answer is no. “The highest consideration should be given to the value and respect of the individual,” Harmon said. “Distinguishing between individual and social welfare safeguards the dignity of the individual and helps to protect against the denigration of ethical analysis to a form of crass utilitarianism. A Christian examination of Wal-Mart’s wage practices should therefore look at upholding the individual dignity of each employee, rather than...Simply the broad maximization of social benefits.” The average full-time hourly wage rate at Wal-Mart is about $11 per hour. Its average starting salary is about seven dollars per hour. However, only about 60 percent of Wal-Mart workers qualify as full-time employees. And even these full-time employees earn only about $17,600 per year on average. Another approach Harmon used to assess the fairness of Wal-Mart’s wages had to do with measuring what percent of associates’ incomes was applied toward healthcare costs. “In an embarrassing memo that was leaked to the press in 2005, the executive of Wal-Mart’s people division admitted that ‘On average, associates spend about 8 percent of their income on healthcare for themselves and their family’ — nearly twice the national average,” Harmon said. “Judging these figures against the Christian conception of a living wage, the salary Wal-Mart pays its workers falls short of the mark,” she continued. “Clearly, the current wage rate does not honor Wal-Mart’s workers’ personal development, and it stifles their participation as individuals in society.”

Using an online “Living Wage Calculator,” Harmon was able to examine living wage estimates for thousands of communities across the country. She found that the current wage Wal-Mart pays its employees in Charlotte, for example, falls well below the benchmark the living wage calculator listed for this community. Additionally, a newly hired Wal-Mart employee can expect to earn only about $3,000 more than the current abject poverty standard for an individual. From this analytical approach, Harmon reiterated that the dignity of an individual and his or her needs must outweigh any benefit society reaps as a whole. “Noting the disparity between living wage standards and Wal-Mart employee salaries, any societal good that the company delivers in the form of lower prices does not justify its underpayment of its workers,” she said. “At the heart of religious resistance lies the fundamental Christian conviction that social forces that exploit individual dignity in the name of business violate God’s will.”

A study conducted at the University of California-Berkeley found that “not only is the Christian conception of a just wage spiritually desirable, it is economically feasible as well. If Wal-Mart unilaterally increased all employees’ pay to $10 per hour, even if Wal-Mart passed on these increases in wages entirely to the consumer in the form of price mark-ups (an unlikely occurrence), this would translate to a mere price increase of $1.47 per shopping trip.” From this perspective, the amount Wal-Mart would have to increase its prices in order to pay workers a living wage would be virtually negligible and would thus not hurt the welfare of society. Furthermore, if Wal-Mart instituted these wage increases, “this would make healthcare coverage for all employees a feasible option,” Harmon said.

Wal-Mart’s current healthcare policies emphasize their coverage of crisis care over preventative care. But from a Christian ethics perspective, Harmon argued, “Christians should not view critical and preventative care as competing choices. In light of this appreciation for both preventative and crisis care treatment, an evaluation of Wal-Mart’s current health insurance philosophy exposes the ethical problems associated with its current plan. Wal-Mart fails to meet a Christian standard in that the corporation essentially drops preventative care out of the healthcare equation.”

A separate issue complicating the analysis of ethical wages has to do with how many people one person’s wage is supporting. Harmon noted that many laborers work to support not only themselves but family dependents as well. This brings the idea of a family living wage into the discussion. However, the adoption of such a wage would nearly double the figure Wal-Mart would have to pay its employees. Harmon presented several options that would make the family living wage “a sort of moral target — a wage that allows for a decent livelihood and respects the sanctity of personhood incorporates the realization that people have social needs to be part of family structure,” she said. “While Christians rightly recognize the economic infeasibility of a living wage that supports a family, regardless of the number of dependents, this does not mean that the target of a wage that compensates beyond an individual should be abandoned. As Christians fight for wage justice, they will necessarily encounter the tension between norms and ideals.”

Harmon concluded that “believers can reasonably ascertain that the current wage rate does not adequately meet a Christian standard. The intractable problem of limited financial and medical resources and unlimited claims on such resources makes explaining away all tension virtually impossible.” Following her presentation, Harmon opened a forum for questions in which she explained, “Wal-Mart is very effective any time there is any sort of collaboration by workers to protest their wages. They shut it down right away, so there really hasn’t been any sort of collective bargaining. Most of the headway that people have made has come from outside organizations like Christian-based groups.”