THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2010

Theatre collaboration teac w Sd

AMELIA MONTGOMERY
Staff Writer

In a time when a pair of 3D glasses can make a film appear as if it were reality, Davidson
students are proving that live theatre still holds a place in the realm of interactive entertainment. Last weekend, local children
squealed with delight as the actors and actresses in Annavel & the Funny Little Man emerged from backstage in medieval
garb to meet with the audience before the play. This intermingling set a casual mood that lasted throughout the performance.

Annavel & the Funny Little Man, a presentation of the Davidson Community Players’ Connie Company and the Davidson College Department
of Theatre, tells the story of Rumplestiltskin and his attempt to take advantage of a baker’s daughter, Annavel. Most adults
are familiar with this story and the show provided a group of Davidson students with the privilege of sharing it
with yet another generation.

One student, Alicia York ’12, who played the tailor and a princess, explained what made this particular production special. “Many
versions of the story are sort of dark and scary,” said York. “Our director added a great deal to the
script in order to make it fun and appealing to children.” Such alterations appeared in the form of songs and
dances. The actors and actresses even brought the children who were sitting on the front row onto the stage to
dance during the finale.

Comedy, too, seemed to have been inserted deftly into the script. The princess, played by York, provided comic relief with
an atrociously runny nose that drew a unanimous “ew” from the audience during the Sunday performance. Hopefully, these added aspects
will render the story and lessons of Annavel unforgettable to its younger viewers.

Some additions to the script, on the other hand, served to entertain a different age group—the parents and college students
in the audience. Melissa Ohlman-Roberge serves as the resident director of the Community Players. “Rupert T. Barber always tried to
throw in something for the adults in his productions, and I’ve tried to do the same,” she said. It would
seem that her efforts certainly succeeded as many situations in the play elicited as much laughter from adults as from
children.

It’s a good thing the adults paid attention to the play, since the lessons taught by Annavel & the Funny
Little Man remain relevant for all ages. Annavel’s father, for instance, brags about his daughter’s ability to spin thread into
gold. His boasts kick off the entire story, and the mess that ensues proves the dangers and consequences of bragging.
The King’s insatiable love of gold is another contributing factor to Annavel’s predicament, as she has to figure out a
way to weave thread into gold. The audience eventually becomes aware of the devastating effects of greed. This production of
Annavel’s story, interestingly enough,was a little different than the story made known to the world by the Brothers Grimm. In
this version, Annavel refuses to marry the King and is depicted as a much stronger female character. Her choices project
a more powerful message about greed, too, as the king is left alone with his gold as his only form
of company. Finally, Rumplestiltskin himself teaches the strongest lesson of the story. Throughout the play, as he cuts deals with
Annavel to help her turn the straw into gold, the audience sees his confidence, or rather, cockiness, which the last
line of his song highlights particularly well: “I always get what I want,” he sings. Later, Rumplestiltskin’s self-assurance causes his
downfall when he accidentally reveals his name in a celebratory song. In a nutshell, this play taught several lessons: don’t
brag, don’t be greedy, don’t get cocky and, finally, Davidson College and the Community Players present universally appealing renditions of
fairy tales.

Style watch: Davidson!
Molly DUNCAN AND VERONICA THOMAS
Staff Writers

When you walk around campus, it isn’t difficult to see a wide range of fashion styles: from pajamas to cocktail
wear to flashy accessories, Davidson students take pride in their personal appearance and clothing choices. Here at the Davidsonian, we
would like to take this opportunity to present you with a list of our personal favorite fashion trends.

1) The No Pants Dance: A new arrival on campus, this weekend look has quickly become a favorite of Davidson
women. Inspired by athletic counterparts wishing to stay warm, the T-shirt and legging combo can now be seen everywhere. Pair
it with a fleece jacket and some Uggs to really make everyone envious of your skin-tight comfort, or a T-shirt
and rainbows for the warmer summer months. Although we tend to believe there is no need for shorts on top,
our male counterparts apparently disagree. “If you’re going to go out of the house, put some pants on,” Matt Sliwiak
’11 strongly reminded us.

2) The Varsity Sweats: Perhaps even more popular than the no pants approach is the full sweat suits sported by
male and female varsity athletes, who comprise nearly 25% of our student body, which explains why this

See Style, page 6

Cook’s Corner: Simple Chocolate Sauce

Homemade chocolate sauce adds a delicious touch to just about any dessert, with ice cream, as shown above.

ELLEN VISER
Staff Writer

For a sweet treat at the end of a cold winter day, try this simple chocolate sauce. It’s quick and
easy to prepare, but the result is still wonderfully rich and smooth. It’s perfect for spooning over vanilla ice cream,
drizzling on a warm brownie, or enjoying with fresh fruit.

1 cup cream
8 oz semisweet chocolate chips
2 tsp vanilla extract

In a saucepan, heat the cream over medium-high heat until hot, but do not let it boil. Add the chocolate
chips and reduce heat to medium. Stir mixture continuously until melted and completely combined. Remove chocolate mixture from heat and
stir in vanilla. Let cool to room temperature or serve slightly warmed. Store leftover sauce in the refrigerator, and use
within one
