its annual elections. The whole process was a haphazard experience at best. For starters, the presidential debate was held the
day before the election. In fact, the presidential election had to be postponed a day because of the last-minute debate.
The debate’s delay put much strain on the candidates, the moderator, and the event’s organizers. If given more time, the
candidates could have prepared more thoroughly, delineated more specific platforms, and formulated clear initiatives. This year, the elections committee should
prevent the student body from getting a full sense of the candidates and their proposed initiatives. It is essential to
hold the elections in highly trafficked spots around campus. Candidates should be given ample time to talk to students in
person or speak to student organizations so that the student body has a clear perception of the candidate as a
person and as a student leader. Likewise, students should be given ample time to make an informed decision, making the
election, and by extension, the SGA itself, more than an afterthought. One single week is no time for students to
get to know the candidates, the issues, or the general election process.

Editor-in-Chief: Brett Willis
Managing Editor: Brian Park
News Editors: Kelsey Lilley & Caroline Wood
Perspectives Editors: Bryan Norris & Clint Smith
Arts & Living Editor: Jennifer Gambrell
Yowl Editor: Alex Greening
Sports Editors: Mike Frongello & Logan Lewis
Online Editor: Elizabeth Watts
Head Copy Editors: Christy Carry & Natasha Rivera
Business & Circulation Managers: Elizabeth Shevock & Lauren Wright
Assistant Copy Editors: Joel Fineman & Ryan Price
Photography Staff: Tripp Bartholomew & Bill Giduz

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. Please address all correspondences to:
The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182, Davidson, NC 28035-7182. E-mail: Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in Room 411 of the Alvarez
College Union. Opinions expressed in articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Only
the staff editorials represent the views of The Davidsonian staff. Subscriptions cost $55.00 per year, or $30 per semester. Email
Liz Shevock at elshevock@davidson.edu for advertising inquiries. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

I had the pleasure of attending a lecture by Dr. Steven Koonin, Undersecretary for Science at the United States Department
of Energy, on Monday night. His topic was the current situation and future of American energy infrastructure. Dr. Koonin was
fascinating, described by a friend as “a living textbook.” What struck me most during his lecture was his illustration of
how slowly energy improvements and innovations are taking place, especially when compared to the rapid transformation of high-tech gadgets for
consumers. We have gone from audiotapes to MP3s in less than a decade, yet similar improvements to our energy infrastructure
are lagging way behind. Dr. Koonin’s remarks, coupled with the publication of Thomas Friedman’s latest column discussing whether or not
the United States is facing “political instability,” led me to the realization that our energy transformation is being stymied by
our very political system.

Scott Matthews

Consider this: President Clinton oversaw eight years of highly progressive, enthusiastic energy reform. By the end of his administration, the
United States had more than 200 billion dollars in surplus, and the majority of Americans believed that America was on
the right track. Enter George W. Bush in 2000. Number 43’s policies were the polar opposite of President Clinton’s; Bush
reversed much of the Department of Energy’s progress made from 1992 to 2000. After eight years of pro-oil, consumer-driven energy
policy, the United States found itself strapped for cash with a lagging energy infrastructure to power our economy. In 2009,
President Obama launched another 180-degree reversal of energy policies, focusing on vastly different energy initiatives designed to end American dependence
on imported oil. The point is that the inevitable energy transformation that the United States needs is a huge multi-decade
project that has been hampered by our own political instability. Presidential administrations and Congressional majorities have rotated between the Republicans
and Democrats, with no party holding the White House for more than twelve consecutive years since 1961. The fact is,
when it comes to an issue as difficult to transform as energy policy, our political swings foster instability. Ultimately, it
is fair to say that among the problems that slow the change in our energy infrastructure, the relatively frequent changes
in the political environment make it nearly impossible for an energy plan to remain in place, creating unnecessary twists and
turns in the road to energy independence. I think we need to remove the politics from the issue of energy
innovation and implementation entirely. Our energy security cannot be a political football for politicians to tackle. As that is the
case, it is clear that progress will continue to be excruciatingly slow. I believe we need a bi-partisan commission of
leaders taking orders from independent scientists who badly need to be the authoritative voices on our energy direction. The scientists,
in turn, need to conduct research in conjunction with the Departments of Energy, Defense, and Interior. After all, politicians are
generally lawyers or bankers, academics or soldiers; a biologist or physicist is rare on Capitol Hill. It’s time that...the scientists
should start leading us. They need to use their highly specific knowledge to guide America back to the forefront of
new technologies and ultimately energy independence. It’s time for a change in energy management.

Scott Matthews ’13 is undeclared. He is from Greenwich, CT. Contact him at samatthews@davidson.edu.

---

Helping Haiti is our national duty

John Evans
Guest Columnist

Last week, I wrote an article about Haitian relief efforts. My article lacked the appeal I hoped it would convey
to Davidson students. Its focus was too narrow. Not many Americans see these people, or know them in person. But
we, as Americans, share a familial bond with Haiti. What will we have done there, when all’s said and done?

First, before the rubble clears and the Haitians look to us for guidance, we must understand the context of the
world our military has just entered. Don’t doubt it: we will treat Haiti like an inferior nation. We’ve done it
before with Iraq and Afghanistan. And, in a strange masochistic way, even New Orleans. We need to think about how
Haitians and the international community will interpret American military personnel marching down broken streets with big guns. The international community
has already criticized our presence in Haiti. Italy’s Guido Bertolaso said this about our military: “It is a truly powerful
show of force, but it is completely out of touch with reality.” He may not be far from the truth.

Undoubtedly, the United States has played the abusive father role in its dealings with Haiti. It was once rich with
sugarcane fields and coffee beans, until both became top U.S. imports. Since colonialism, these natural blessings have dominated Haitian commerce
and devastated domestic economies. And then there is slavery. Haiti ate up a third of the Atlantic slave trade until
Toussaint Louverture’s 1804 Revolution drove out Napoleon’s army and established Haiti as the first Western Hemisphere nation to renounce slavery.
Like every colony outside of the states, the former masters of Haiti used independence to crush the Haitian economy. Haiti
had to pay a huge cash sum to France for its independence. Thus was born one of the world’s poorest
nations. Uruguayan journalist Eduardo Galeano called Haiti “the human ant heap of Latin America.”

We didn’t really stick our nose in Haiti’s business affairs, until 1910. That’s when Haiti’s national bank failed. They couldn’t
pay the French indemnity. So, U.S. lenders swooped in. Haitian debt switched hands from French collectors to U.S. creditors. We
bought out the Frogs, and Haiti became our play-toy. From 1915 to 1934, the United States military occupied Haiti. For
these 19 years, Haitian economic concerns favored the repayment of debts to the U.S. and neglected internal infrastructure development entirely.
Our disregard has cost the lives of hundreds of thousands of Haitians.

Still, lots of Haitians come to our country. Often they arrive in Miami, where they are transferred to various concentration
camps throughout Florida. The Krome Service Processing Center gives room and board to thousands of illegal immigrants. To pay the
bill, they have to pass “credible fear” exams. In 1992, only 6% of Haitians passed these exams. What goes on
in this INS facility while the Haitians wait? Usually neglect, dismal conditions, sexual/physical abuse, overcrowding and Haitian discrimination. Immigrants from
other Latin American countries pass their “credible fear” exams and leave Krome within a few days. Haitians stay locked up
for months. “What I don’t understand is why the Haitians are treated differently,” one woman testified in court. “Why are
we treated worse than everyone else?” Krome will probably be a name to look out for when the predicted flood
of Haitians to our shores begins to roll in.

Did you know that without Haiti, we might not have baseball? Or at least not as easily as we do
now. Haitian women produce 90% of the world’s baseballs. The corrupt Haitian government gives American sporting goods companies cheap labor
and tax breaks. Speaking of the government, what kind of a president first says, “My palace collapsed,” when asked to
comment about the state of his devastated country?

Well, that’s precisely what Haiti had in mind during our American Revolution. In 1879, a regiment of Haitian soldiers fought
at Savannah during the American Revolutionary War. These men did not fight for the promise of emancipation: they were free
men who volunteered. One Haitian soldier, Henri Christophe, led Haitians in their own revolution and ruled his nation for fourteen
years. The spirit of revolution sweeping our own fledgling nation overleaped the ocean to liberate yet another shackled people. Now,
we package democracy and ship it overseas.

Despite our rocky past together, we are bound to Haiti. Haitian destiny will remain inextricably tied to our American heritage.
Today, we risk dooming Haitians to even more dismal conditions than what they already suffered. I couldn’t let my previous
news article rust in the Davidsonian archives. I needed to speak with a more personal voice. We have to help
Haiti. Once again, the world’s great eye is upon us. Our nation must demonstrate that we can provide swift, effective
aid to Haiti and exit with grace and consideration for a grieving people. In the meantime, us Davidson kids need
to help out however we can.

John Evans ’11 is an English major from Atlanta, GA. Contact him at joevans@davidson.edu.
