DAVIDSON COLLEGE PATTERSON COURT

This week, Patterson Court introduces compostable cups in an effort to increase environmental sustainability and cut costs.
see NEWS, page 3

RUMPLESTILTSKIN REVAMPED

Davidson Community Players and Davidson College Department of Theatre collaborate on the production of Annabel and the Funny Little Man
see ARTS, page 5

“THE LOBSTER” SPEAKS

“The Lobster” explains why Davidson should come out in full force for Blackout Belk this Thursday night
see SPORTS, page 10

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2010

JOHN EVANS
Staff Writer

“I’m hurting,” admitted English Professor and Trinidad native Dr. Brenda Flanagan. “I’m keeping from crying. It’s very difficult to think about what’s going on. I can only look at the news once a day. The images are horrible.”

On Sunday, Haitian officials announced that the government had buried over 150,000 victims of the 7.0 magnitude earthquake that ruptured the Caribbean nation on Jan. 12. Of the two million residents of Port-au-Prince, where the quake hit hardest, 600,000 remain homeless.

Despite a swift relief response from international organizations and the American military, Haitians still struggle to receive basic necessities such as food and water. In order to satisfy the needs of these Haitians, the UN World Food Programme has estimated a $279 million cost for food operations and logistics from January to July, including ready-to-eat food packages. Funding so far has amounted to only $128 million, and food supplies are running out.

Drinking water systems have been destroyed, making clean water allocation a priority for aid workers. Without water, disease spreads through the masses of displaced Haitians. Long lines stretch from NGO headquarters and water trucks, where each Haitian receives several gallons of water.

“You can give someone water,” Flanagan said. “But what about the grief that person suffers?”

According to the UN’s Human Development Index, an indicator of social and economic growth, Haiti ranks 146 out of 177 countries. Still bound by their history of colonialism, Haitians have suffered under a cycle of military dictatorships and government upheavals.

“We have a very long, very intimate, relationship with Haiti,” Flanagan, who has visited Haiti on numerous occasions and has taken students to work at Haitian clinics, said. “We’re not entirely responsible for the economic degradation of the country, but a great deal of it rests on our shoulders.”

“It’s a corrupt system in the first place,” she continued. “You pay people off to get water, to get pipes connected. Colonialism didn’t build an infrastructure in [the] country.”

Yet despite their hardships, Flanagan praised the “resiliency” of Haitians. “They are warm, friendly and engaging and giving and kind and generous, and they’ve been treated terribly by their government, and they’ve been treated terribly over the years by our American government,” she said.

Flanagan said that she sympathizes with Haiti’s plight. “They’ve been beaten down so often, but they have a generosity of spirit,” she said. “Haitians are wonderfully giving people.”

A Red Cross volunteer during the Hurricane Katrina disaster, Flanagan will go to Haiti over spring break to deliver toiletries. “I can only do a small amount,” she said, “because I’m taking this myself. If everything works out, I’m going to be taking down a few boxes and suitcases, whatever I can cram full.”

Davidson students, working with the Community Service office, have also coordinated to provide relief. On Monday in the 900 Room, students met for the second time to discuss ideas for fundraising events and campus awareness. Through coordinated efforts between multiple student organizations, the relief effort aims “to maximize our impact and not duplicate effort,” according to Assistant Dean for Community Service Stacey Riemer.

Fundraising tables set up in the Union last week raised over $2,600, and the relief effort intends to raise more. This Monday and Tuesday, Phi Delta Theta will host “Helping Hands for Haiti” from 7-11 p.m. Students may donate $10 to sign up at their table this week in the Union.

See Haiti, page 4

Library thefts prompt investigation, precautions

KELTY WILSON
Staff Writer

In the past several weeks there have been reports of stolen textbooks from the E.H. Little Library. The initial incident occurred just before Winter Break, and since then, three additional thefts have been reported to campus police. Three of the stolen books are the same: an Intermediate Accounting textbook, but beyond that detail, there have been no other patterns to the thefts, including the area of the library where the incidents occurred or the time of day.Some of the books were taken from study carrels, and one was taken from near the reference desk area. “The person had left the book for only a couple of minutes,” explained Chief of Campus Police Fountain Walker. “They had stepped away, and when they came back it was gone, which makes me think that it is somebody who blends in pretty well because the staff here is very familiar with people who are not college students or faculty.” Although he noted, “We’re pretty sure it’s somebody college-aged,” Walker was unsure about whether he thought it was someone affiliated with Davidson College. “It could be anybody. It could be someone from another campus. If it’s a book that is very costly, which these are at $230 a piece, a wholesale back to the company could get you 75 percent of that money back in your own pocket. So how much money does it take for someone to take advantage of an honor code that has defined a school? You’re talking about almost $1,000 right now.

“This is kind of a new twist for us because there are a lot of independent dealers of books, and we have a couple of students on campus who are actually independent dealers of books,” he continued. “So they could in fact be working for an online company and don’t realize that someone could bring them a book that may have been stolen. We’re trying to find out who the independent dealers on this campus are because any type of selling that could be in competition with the Bookstore is prohibited. They may not realize that there’s a rule like that on campus.”

The library is working closely with campus police to implement a variety of surveillance methods in order to prevent future thefts. “We have posted signs to make students aware of the thefts,” said Library Director Jill Gremmels. Gremmels further advises, “As the signs say, ‘If it matters, take it with you.’” Gremmels also encouraged students to make use of the recently installed lockers in the library. “We bought 18 of them to see how students would use them, and some students are using them regularly,” she said. “Because we have so few lockers, they have not been available for long-term use, but they could be if that would be a useful service.

“I'd love to get some feedback from students on this,” she continued. “Many libraries provide lockers for a semester or an academic year, giving students a secure place to store their things instead of hauling them around campus. Should we do that? I hope students will let me know what they think.”

In terms of the thefts that have already taken place, campus police is conducting a full-scale investigation. They are involving other Davidson staff members and communicating with other colleges to try to learn if these thefts may be part of a larger theft ring. Walker noted that UNC-Charlotte has had entire shipments — thousands of books — stolen, a type of activity he referred to as “book pawning.” “For students working in the library, if they see somebody they’re not accustomed to seeing who is rifling through stuff, they should go ahead and let the staff know immediately,” he advised. “As a community we need to be paying attention.”

See Thefts, page 2

---

Astronaut visits campus

Marshburn ’82 will recount his experiences aboard the International Space Station

Kesey Littey and Caroline Wood
News Editors

Tonight, January 27, Thomas Marshburn ’82 will speak about his experiences on the International Space Station this summer. Marshburn, a crew member of the Space Shuttle Endeavor, spent two weeks on his mission to the Station.

Marshburn was born in Statesville, NC. After attending high school in Georgia, he graduated from Davidson in 1982 as a physics major before getting his Masters in engineering physics at UVa. He also holds a doctorate from Wake Forest and a Masters in medical science from the University of Texas Medical Branch. After working as an emergency physician for a number of years, Marshburn joined NASA in Russia as a flight surgeon, developing programs for other flight surgeons and supporting the International Space Station’s (ISS) medical system. In the summer of 2009, Marshburn participated in a spaceflight to the ISS, a trip during which he logged almost 19 hours of spacewalks, according to NASA.

The lecture will take place at 7:30 p.m. in Duke Family Performance Hall. Tickets are free and open to the public. 100 tickets will be made available on a first come, first served basis at 6:30 p.m.