THE DAVIDSONIAN

Wildcats wrestlers fall at UNCG

ZACHARY ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

Davidson wrestling faced off against UNC Greensboro in Fleming Gymnasium on Wednesday night. Despite a great effort by Davidson, UNC Greensboro posted a 40-9 score for the win.

In the first match of the evening, UNC Greensboro got off to an incredible start with an impressive victory. Peter Sturgeon pinned Davidson’s Charlie Wolff at 7:11 at 285 pounds. Following the first match, the Spartans continued to capitalize early when Eric Chandler registered a major decision against Ben Altman ’10 to put UNC Greensboro 10-0.

Davidson did not give up. The Radsky brothers rallied back to secure two victories for Davidson. Alex Radsky ’11 scored a 9-7 decision and Vitaly Radsky ’11 scored a 3-2 decision. Winning in dramatic fashion, Vitaly won in the final seconds of his match, overcoming a one-point deficit with a takedown. After the fierce comeback, the Spartans turned the tables once again and took the next five of six matches to secure the victory. Davidson was forced to forfeit the 174 and 184-pound bouts.

To finish things off, UNC Greensboro’s Ryan Sughrue scored a pin for Greensboro at 197 pounds. Davidson’s record declined to 2-12 overall and 0-3 in the SoCon. Davidson faces off against The Citadel at home on

Again this year, funds from the George L. Abernethy Endowment will be available to support worthy initiatives by current first-year, sophomore, or junior students. [It is possible for us to fund a senior who expects to complete all research work prior to graduation.] Individual awards fall into one of the following categories:

1) Independent student research in the humanities or social sciences, either in the US or abroad.

2) Cross-cultural study opportunities for students during the academic year or the summer.

[At the request of the donor, applications are limited to projects that fall within the humanities and social sciences.]

Application forms are available at http://inside.davidson.edu/committees/faculty/Faculty%20Forms/Forms/AllItems.aspx or in the Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs (Chambers 1283). Completed application forms are due back in this office no later than 5:00 p.m. on Thursday, February 25, 2010. The announcement of awards should occur prior to the exam period of the spring semester.

Wildcat Pulse

Abernethy Endowment

SPORTS

...who made the score 44-38 with 12 minutes to play in regulation. Cohen’s lay-up with remaining gave Davidson a 51-49 lead. The Wildcats would not trail again until Bryz before McKillop added another triple to narrow the gap to one with three minutes remaining. After McKillop tied the game at 57, Wells missed a jumpshot with 22 seconds left. The Wildcats elected not to use a timeout and Rossiter eventually missed a wild fadeaway jumper in the closing seconds. The rebound was eventually knocked out of bounds with 1.4 seconds remaining. The Bulldogs’ Joe Wolfinger caught a baseball pass and fired a contested 12-footer that clanged off the rim as the buzzer sounded.

In the extra period, Harrison DuPont missed a shot with 20 seconds remaining that would have tied the game. Rossiter grabbed the rebound and was fouled, but missed the front end of a one-and-one to give the Bulldogs another chance. Davidson played solid defense on the ensuing possession, however, and forced Zach Urbanus to fire up an airball from beyond the three-point line with three seconds left. Cohen then knocked down foul shots to clinch the victory.

The game followed a similar script to the Charleston game in that the Wildcats found themselves with an early double-figure deficit. A slow start resulted in Davidson trailing 24-12 with eight minutes remaining.

...assists to lead the Wildcat attack. Cohen was the team’s leading scorer with 16 points and eight rebounds. Rossiter produced 10 points and seven boards, while Archambault had...

...stretch, and McKillop added another triple to narrow the gap to one with three minutes remaining. After McKillop tied the game at 57, Wells missed a jumpshot with 22 seconds left. The Wildcats elected not to use a timeout and Rossiter eventually missed a wild fadeaway jumper in the closing seconds. The rebound was eventually knocked out of bounds with 1.4 seconds remaining. The Bulldogs’ Joe Wolfinger caught a baseball pass and fired a contested 12-footer that clanged off the rim as the buzzer sounded.

In the extra period, Harrison DuPont missed a shot with 20 seconds remaining that would have tied the game. Rossiter grabbed the rebound and was fouled, but missed the front end of a one-and-one to give the Bulldogs another chance. Davidson played solid defense on the ensuing possession, however, and forced Zach Urbanus to fire up an airball from beyond the three-point line with three seconds left. Cohen then knocked down foul shots to clinch the victory.

The game followed a similar script to the Charleston game in that the Wildcats found themselves with an early double-figure deficit. A slow start resulted in Davidson trailing 24-12 with eight minutes remaining.

...assists to lead the Wildcat attack. Cohen was the team’s leading scorer with 16 points and eight rebounds. Rossiter produced 10 points and seven boards, while Archambault had...

...edge over The Citadel and Furman, Davidson (9-11, 6-4) will return to action on February...

...and a friendly atmosphere.

public service.

Contact Stetson Law today:
(877) LAW-STET
lawadmit@law.stetson.edu
www.law.stetson.edu
facebook.com/StetsonLaw

...available to answer questions and to meet with you to talk about career goals (or life in general). My fellow classmates are not competitors, but friends. People work hard, but they respect and support each other.”

WEDNESDAY,

Earn your law degree in a balanced environment with the nation’s #1-ranked advocacy program, outstanding professors...

Through its full-time and part-time programs, Stetson prepares lawyers through practical experience, leadership training and...

“The academics are rigorous, but professors are always...

— Sarah Hanafin, 2L

February 3, 2010

Men’s Basketball vs. Ga. Southern
Saturday 7 p.m.
Belk Arena

Saturday’s game is a special “Paint it Red” event. Fans are encouraged to buy limited edition Nike shirts at the student bookstore or ‘Cats on Main spirit store. Proceeds benefit the Kicks from ‘Cats Education Fund.

Outside the Den

NFL
New Orleans vs. Indianapolis
Super Bowl XLIV
Sunday 6:18 p.m.

Two teams who flirted with an undefeated regular season will meet in America’s biggest sporting event on Sunday. The Saints are making their first ever Super Bowl appearance while the Colts hope to celebrate their second Super Bowl title in the last four years.