2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Elections, from page 1

the importance of standing up for her constituents. “I am dedicated and committed,” she said. “I’m a fighter.” She continued,
“I want everything to be open. I want to start an initiative where more people come to SGA meetings.”

Hubbard was slightly more aggressive about his approach. Explaining that he loves to talk with administrators, he said, “I love
to be personable and get in their face and shake hands and have fun.” If opposed by administrators, he promised
to help the campus “rally and fight them.”

“I am dedicated and committed. I’m a fighter.”
—Rayna McKenzie ’11

McCann also promised to be faithful to student wishes. “I am not the trustees’ president,” she said. She mentioned that
she has worked with administrators on a number of projects, including the Bank of America Global Energy Conference, for which
she worked with College Communications and other administrators.

Willis then questioned candidates on how they plan to motivate SGA members to be active in their roles. Hubbard said,
“One thing I would hope to do is bond SGA from the get-go.” He suggested that a past problem has
been a few members “running the conversation.”

McCann emphasized the importance of personal communication. “If you can get people personally interested, that is the way to get
things done,” she said. McKenzie said she would be clear in delegating responsibilities, promising that senators would know exactly what
they are supposed to be doing in any given timeframe. “Without that drive, there is no commitment,” she said.

Willis then asked the candidates to name their first policy initiative if elected. McCann cited “campus improvements to ensure that
every student is getting the things they need,” focusing on study space. McKenzie named “staff and faculty relations,” stating that
she was “really concerned” about the state of relationships on campus. She suggested the inauguration of appreciation days as one
way of alleviating this problem. Hubbard returned to his CatCard plan, saying that he would immediately go to Ruth French
to begin ironing out the details of the Harris Teeter arrangements.

“If you can get people personally interested, that is the way to get things done.”
—Kayla McCann ’11

The next question focused on how candidates would go about choosing students to fill SGA roles. McKenzie stated that she
would work on gauging individual interests, while McCann said that it was imperative to develop networks of students in order
to “look to the people we know to find the people they know.”

Hubbard said, “I have a lot of friends in a lot of different social groups, so I think it will
be easy” to find good candidates.

Candidates then faced a question about Davidson’s relationship with the town. Hubbard said that he wanted to return good feelings
to the level achieved during the NCAA tournament two years ago.

“I would try to facilitate that, maybe contact the leaders of the town,” he said. McCann stated that “the key
is proving to the community that each one of us is a truly good person” through community service organizations. McKenzie
focused on the importance of “specialized events on campus for members of the town,” like a Senior Citizen ball and
a campus auction.

The Davidsonian is currently seeking editorial staff. Students with experience working on campus publications are encouraged to apply. Please contact
Caroline (cawood) or Kelsey (kelilley) for deadlines and details.

Not interested in editing, but have questions about writing for News? Contact cawood or kelilley.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2010

When the moderators had exhausted their questions, the floor turned to questions submitted by the audience. The first was a
particularly challenging question about the Alcohol Task Force, to which Hubbard replied, “I don’t believe that making a bunch of
rules and regulations and having cops go around...is good for Davidson.” All candidates stressed the need for a safe drinking
environment.

Other questions from the audience addressed course shortages and policy initiatives that require extension or correction. While the debate lasted
less than an hour, the three candidates demonstrated significant differences of opinion about the drinking culture on campus, as well
as the best ways of dealing with administrators and constituents, while still highlighting their mutual concern for the welfare of
Davidson students.

Abernethy Endowment

Again this year, funds from the George L. Abernethy Endowment will be available to support worthy initiatives by current first-year,
sophomore, or junior students. [It is possible for us to fund a senior who expects to complete all research work
prior to graduation.] Individual awards fall into one of the following categories:

1) Independent student research in the humanities or social sciences, either in the US or abroad.

2) Cross-cultural study opportunities for students during the academic year or the summer.

[At the request of the donor, applications are limited to projects that fall within the humanities and social sciences.]

Application forms are available at http://inside.davidson.edu/committees/faculty/Faculty%20Forms/Forms/AllItems.aspx or in the Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs (Chambers 1283). Completed
application forms are due back in this office no later than 5:00 p.m. on Thursday, February 25, 2010. The announcement
of awards should occur prior to the exam period of the spring semester.
