THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, January 20, 2010

’Cats down Eagles for 13th straight; Terriers deny Wildcats time, keep pace in SoCon title race

JOHN MORGAN
Staff Writer

Springing into 2010, the women’s basketball team has opened its SoCon schedule with a 7-3 record. Over the holiday weekend, the ’Cats split contests at College of Charleston and Georgia Southern, dropping the first matchup 78-84 and then coasting to a 68-50 win in the second.

When classes concluded in December, the squad stormed into its winter break contests. The Wildcats flourished, beginning with a 90-68 romp of Wofford before a few days off. The string of victories continued against Newberry College (64-55), UNC-Greensboro (67-45), Elon (82-73), and Longwood (69-53).

Back at school, with all the daily Davidson stress, the ’Cats encountered a few close competitive matchups. The team snuck out of Belk Arena on Jan. 9 with a thrilling overtime win against Samford, 78-77. Conference star Emily London single-handedly kept the Bulldogs in the game, as she racked up 35 points against the Davidson D. “She was able to knock down shots with our players’ hands in her face,” Watts said. “There are nights when shooters are simply in the zone, and they will make shots that seem impossible.” With Davidson not short of its own power, a last-second three by Ashley Lax '11 propelled Davidson to the top of the SoCon season rankings.

On the first day of classes after break, the ’Cats stalled in a near comeback against Chattanooga. After cutting a double-digit lead late in the second half, the squad fell 62-64 to its perennial rival. Watts downplayed the loss because it was the team’s fifth game in 10 days, but team captains hope the memory burns. Watts said Alex Thompson '10 “encouraged her teammates to feel the pain of a two-point loss and never let it happen again.”

Photo by Trip: Ashley Lax ’11 led all scorers with 17 points in the 'Cats’ loss at College of Charleston over the weekend. The junior guard made four three-pointers in the contest and leads the team with 34 made three-point field goals on the season.

Just a few days later, the ’Cats packed their bags for a road trip to the Old South haven of Charleston, South Carolina. Far from a lazy afternoon at the beach, the matchup pitted together two of the conference’s top teams. Davidson spread the floor with talent, while Charleston boasted individual standouts. The top two Cougar scorers combined for 54 points, while Davidson evenly distributed its tallies among five players in double figures. Similar to the Emily London challenge, the ’Cats dealt with the difficulty of a conference “loaded with good shooters this year,” as Watts said.

At halftime, Davidson had fallen to a 29-48 deficit. By intermission, the contest seemed nearly out of reach. But over the second 20-minute helping, Davidson served up continuous offensive pressure. With 2:13 left in the game, the squad had cut the lead down to single digits for good. But the effort arrived too late, as a three at the buzzer from Monica Laune '10 narrowed the final score to a respectable 78-84.

For the ’Cats, newcomer Sophia Aleksandravicius '13 posted 14 points and 10 boards for yet another double-double. Laune led the offense with 19 points, and Thompson, Julia Paquette '10, and Lax all added double figures.

In search of warmer climates, and hotter intensity, the team journeyed to Statesboro, GA, for a matchup against the Georgia Southern Eagles. Of the previous 12 games betweenThe two teams, Davidson has won all 12. The ’Cats grabbed a decent lead in the first half, then held tight. Consistent shooting maintained Davidson’s position on the scoreboard, and defense steadily improved over the course of the game. As the Davidson D regained its confidence from the two earlier losses, it snuffed out Southern in the second half. Holding the Eagles to 17.9% shooting in the second period, the defensive front squashed any legitimate comeback attempts. For the first time in a few contests, the ’Cats stopped their opponent short of the 50-point mark. The close calls with Samford,

See ’Cats, page 10

Ray FRANCIS
Staff Writer

The men’s basketball team split a pair of road games in South Carolina last week, prevailing 86-81 over the Furman Paladins before falling 68-62 against the Wofford Terriers. Against Furman, Will Archambault ’10 led the charge for Davidson, pouring in 15 points to lead the squad. JP Kuhlman ’13 added 14 points and a team-high six assists. Steve Rossiter ’10 chipped in 13 points and six rebounds while Jake Cohen ’13 contributed 11 points and seven rebounds. The Wildcats led the Paladins by double digits for most of the second half before surviving a furious rally in the game’s final minutes. Archambault’s free throw gave Davidson a 76-62 lead with 1:50 remaining. The Wildcats, however, then went cold from the foul line, shooting only 9-16 from the charity stripe in the final two minutes. The Wildcats’ struggles from the foul line coincided with Amu Saaka’s attempt to bring Furman back single-handedly. Saaka scored 12 points in the final two minutes as his squad scratched and clawed its way back into striking distance. The Wildcats’ lead was reduced to 84-81 with nine seconds remaining. Bryant Barr ’10 had an opportunity to ice the game but failed on two foul shots. Archambault saved Davidson, however, rebounding the second miss and being fouled himself with five seconds remaining. His two foul shots produced the game’s final margin. Davidson shot only 41.4% (24-58) from the floor on the night, while allowing Furman to shoot 51.1% (24-47), including 50% (7-14) from beyond the arc. The Wildcats made up for this discrepancy by out-rebounding the Paladins 37-29, including a 16-6 edge on the offensive glass and a 13-4 edge in second-chance points. Free throw shooting nearly undid the Wildcats, who managed only a 63.6% (28-44) effort from the charity stripe, compared with the Paladins’ 72.2% (26-36). Saaka led Furman with 34 points.

See Wildcats, page 11

Player of the Week
Alex Thompson ’10
Women’s Basketball

ASHEVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA

PLAY OF THE WEEK

Martin Blitzes Hokies in Freestyle Sprint Events

Lindsey Martin ’11 claimed the individual title in both sprint freestyle events in Saturday’s dual meet at Virginia Tech. Martin outswam the competition with times of 23.72 and 51.87 in the 50- and 100-freestyle events, respectively. The senior guard scored 10 points and pulled down a career-high 12 rebounds in Monday night's road win over Georgia Southern. The double-double was Thompson’s second of her career as she scored in double figures for the ninth straight contest. She needs just 77 points for 1,000 in her career.