The DAVIDSONIAN

VOL 2.

—

Senior Speaking Is

An Unusual Success:

An Appeal to the

Collleges for Help

Oratory and Fair Visitors Crown | American Red Cross Sends Out

Thanksgiving Week-End.

The present Senior ciass can well
boast that it has had one of the most
successful oratorical contests in the his-
tory of the college. Not only were the
flights of Oratory satisfactory. but the
sucial features added a gayety to the
accasion which succeeded in’ making
even the tremblig Senior forget that he
was scheduled to speak in the next sec-
tion. A number of voung ladies from
Charlotte, Winston-Salem = and other
towns in the State. together: with a
goodly number from other States, quite
took the college by storm. and it will be
a‘long time before the hearr-broken
Davidson student can once more, turn
his mind to the classics. Quite a num-
ber of the students’ relatives were also
present to witness the exercises, and
many old Davidson men took this occas-
ion to return to their alma mater and see
their friends.

The exercises were opened at 3
a’clock on Friday afternoon in Shearer
Biblical Hall. “Vhe stage had been taste-
fully decorated by Mr, Young and his
assistants with the class coiors, purple
and gold. A number of ferns placed
around the stage completed the decora-
tion. After a selection hy the Orchestra.
during which the speakers marched on
the stage. the house avas led in a short
prayer. On the conclusion of this praver
Dr. A. Currie introduced the _ first
sneaker. “The One Dark Stain.” de-
livered by U.S. Alexander, was a bril
liant denunciation of capital punishment.
“In the Literature of the Future.” J.
W. S. Gilchrist drew a very attractive
picture of the uplifting but practical type
of writing that future generations would
enjoy.

On Friday afternoon from § to 6, Dr.
and Mrs. Archibald Curry delightfully
entertained at their home the Senior
class and its guests. “he entertainment
was an informal reception and every one
was welcomed heartily by Mrs. Curry
and her friends. Mrs. Curry was as-

sisted by Mrs. Curry. Senior, Mrs.
Martin. Mrs. Arbuckle. Miss Mary
Young ‘and Miss Elizabeth Grey. “‘Vhe
Seniors were acconipanied by their

young lady friends and a gay hour was
spent during which delicious refresh-
ments of hot chocolate, cake, fruits and
candies, were served. “Many candles,
decorated lights and cheerful fires con-
tributed towards making the occasion at-
tractive. Every Senior agrees that the
afternoon was one of the most enjoy-
able ever spent in Davidson.

The speakers on Friday night were
each introduced by Dr. T. M. McCon-
nell in a few well chosen words. There
were several verv creditable sneeches on
this occasion. “The Thief,” by G. W.
Gignilliat. was the plea of a lawyer for
an. eighteen-year-old thief. who is a
criminal through baving had no views of
life other than those gained from a view-
point and environment of crime and
evil. ‘The Monarch Dethroned.” by
A. R. Howland was a stirring plea for
China. It was pictured as a countrv yet
undeveloped. where all the vouth of
America could take a vital part in the
work. N. Tohnson. in his “‘Peace
Heroic.” develoned the theme that the
victories of peace were just as heroic as
these of war. and required a nobler sort
of heroism than that of the battlefield.

The exercises were continued at 10
o'clock on Saturday morning. Dr. Mar-

(Continued on page 4)

Call to Relieve Suffering.

The call for “help has been sent out
to the colleges of America by the Amer-
ican Red Cross Society. “Vhis is a call
for sume contribution trom every college
min to makes less the great suffering
which is being caused by the European
war. It is not possible tor the people ot
this country to imagine the horrows and:
suffering -caused by this conflict. Ot
these conditions, the letter which has
been received, says: “Lhe American
Red Cross appeals to you for assistance
in mitigating the unprecedented sutter-
ing and distress caused by the present
war. Never before in history has there
been such need. for aid: It is impossible
for the medical services of the armies

involved to cope with the teartul mag-|-

nitude of the work. Wounded by hun-
dreds of thousands are scattered through
cities, towns and villages. Many are
without adequate surgical care and the:
necessary surgical dressings. Frequently
operations have to be performed! without
anaesthetics. “he lack ot gauze band-
ages and absorbent cotton produces in-
fection, ending often in. death trom gan:
grene or tetanus.

“The armies engaged are composed
mainly of young men ot the age of cul
lege men, and wt is particularly fitting
that their suficrings should make an ap
peal ta them.”

Vhe colleges are responding freely.
Yale has turnished two motor ambu-
lances, and Princeton is to support a
trained nurse as long as the war lasts.
Practically every college is making ar
rangements to do as much as they pos
sibly can. ‘Phis will mean a sacrifice tor
many. and it will net be easy for any.
bat the canse is one which cannot be
overlooked. ;

‘The Peace Contest will be held here
at Davidson on next Saturday, the 5th,
and there could certainly be no more ap-
propriate day than this to designate as a
Day ot Peace For Davidson College.
On that day blank envelopes wall be.
placed in the hands of every man in
college. ‘The envelopes will carry no
name or amount. for the offering is. to
he a free-will offering. Boxes will be
placed at convenient places on the
campus, and it is requested that all con
tributions be dropped intd these boxes
promptly.

At the end of the day, the envelopes
will simply be counted and the number
of students contributing will be — esti-
mated from the number of ‘envelopes re-
ceived. ‘The object is not entirely to
secure a large amount, as it is to have a
contribution from every man. Better a
two-cent stamp from every one than ten
dollars from one person.

This money will be forwarded to the
Red Cross Society by THe Davinsox-
IAN and any special contributions from
the faculty and others in Davidson will
be received by P. D. Patrick, Business
Manager of the Davidsonian. One spe-
cial contribution of this kind has already
been received amounting to $5.00.

DR, McCONNELL INVITED
TO MAKE ADDRESS

Dr. J. Moore McConnell has been
asked to make an address at the annual
meeting of the North Carolina Literary
and Historical Society, to be held at
Raleigh on December 2. He has pre-
pared an interesting paper on “North
Carolina Oratory.” which he will send
to the meeting to be read if unable to go.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 2, 1914.

Interesting Town
News of the Week

NO. 13

Davidson Ends Season

With 7 to 6 Victory

Social and Personal Items About| Baptists Check Presbyterians’ At-

the Village People.

The Ladies’ Foreign Missionary So
ciety ot the Presbyterian church will
meet with Murs. Henderson, ‘Vhursday
afternoon.

Mrs. TL P. Johnson, the mother of
“Coach” Johnson, was a visitor at the
home ot Mrs. Wooten dtring Senior
Speaking.

Ar. J. Philips and Miss Sallie Canup
motored over trom Salisbury and spent
Sunday with Mes. Holt Armour.

. 4

Mr. and Nirs. P. Jettan spent the
“week-end with Mrs. Christenbury.
* ry .
A committee has been appointed to
make arrangements for the annua!
Christmas tree entertainment which ts

| to be held in Shearer Hall.
4 .

Mr. S.J... Christenbury, who has
been on jury service in’ Charlotte, re
turned home Saturday.

The Ladies’ Missionary Society of the
Methodist: church will hold their nest
meeting with Mrs. Cheristenbury Thurs
day afternoon at 3 o'clock.

Mrs. 4. L. Bell and Miss Georgia
Bell have been visiting Mir and) Mrs,
toR. Withers. Miss Georgia Bell Las
heen attending the ‘Teachers’ Assembly
in Charlotte. ;

Miss Fetelle Davis was the visitor of
Mes. J. M.. Potts during the “Thanks
wiving holidavs.

Miss Sarah Wooten spent the
Thanksgiving helidavs at home: — She
Bad weitine her ar this time Vliss Mar
jorie Dance, from Queens College.

On seceunt af the delay in building
the stairs af the new Civie League Halll,
the annual Bazaar will be delaved for
about ten days. Amone the thines sald
will be many nice articles suitable for
Christma

resents,

ORCHESTRA AND GLEE CLUB
WIN MUCH APPLAUSE

Saturday evening the Orchestra and
Glee Club gave their first concert on
the Hill. A large and appreciative audi
ence was present to enjoy their perform-
ance, and no doubt inspired the perform.
ers to give one of the best concerts that
has heen given by the organization for
some time.

Orchestra and Glee Club were alike
at their best, and were heartily applaud
ed on each number. The quartet, com-
posed of Messrs. Fowle, Ansley, John-
ston and McGeachy. was esvecially
good, their encore “The Memphis
Blues,” bringing down the house. Fowle
was called back repeatedly by louder
and louder bursts of applause, and each
time captivated the house. The last
number on the program was a new col-
lege sone, “Davidson for Aye.” written
bv McIlwaine. and set to the Welsh na-
tional song. “The March of the Men
of Harlech.”

Many expressions of commendation
have been received by the organization
since the concert. and according to unan-
imous opinion its members and officers
are to be congratulated on the fine
showing they made.

tack Until Last Quarter.

Davidson closed an exceedingly suc-
cesstul foot ball season laste “Vhursday by
scoring its final victory over Wake For-
est, 7-6.

With a cloudy sky and almost na
wind blowing, the “Presbyterians” and

the “Baptists” had an ideal day tor their

annual “Vhanksgiving battle. A large
crowd of 2.000 eaperly awaited — the
blowing of the whistle for the begin
ning of the game, and when its shrill
note sounded the Presbyterians were
ready. ta defend the western goal, and
the Baptists: kicked to them. On the
very first’ play it) was shown chat the
gaine would indeed be a battle, and so
it continued. “Phe Baptists had all) to
win and nothing to fase, so they fought
like demons. “Vhe Presbyterians met the
attack with cool determination, but they
did not show their old) forny until the
second period. to the initial half Wake
Forest scored ania series af shart for-
ward pisses, but they failed ta kick goal,
In the second half Black ran throngh
the Baptists for a touchdown and Mc-
Kinnon kicked goal. “Phe Wake Forest
captain contended thar the whistle had
blawn before the ball had been put in
pliv. but the referee held up his decision
and allowed voal ta‘be kicked. and de-
clared that Ritch had blawn his instru-
nent after ball was in play, the score to
be seven to six in Davidsan’s faver. Tm.
inediately the Wake Forest plavers gath-
cred around him and protested the decis-
fon, but be stuck teat. and the Baptists
lef the field avith six more minutes ta
olay. At the time the game ended the
Red and Black Machine was going like
a streak, and many supporters think that
ther would undoubtedly have registered
easily anather touchdown. The game
b+ quarters shows the stars and feature
plavs.

Captain. Moare of Wake Forest, wan
the toss and elected ta kick-off, Davidson
recewwing at the south goal. Billings
kicked as vatde: Andersen received and
was downed in his tracks; Davidson's
hall on their 35 vard line. Black and
Keesler took 2 vards and + threngh the
line: then Rlack skirted the end for 6
more’ MeKinnon kicked 30 vards, hut
the Baptists were unable ta held the,
ball. and White, who always fallaws the
ball, recovered the fumble. “The next
play Rlack ran far ro vards ever tackle.
At this stage. with the ball right in the
chadow of the Baptists’ goal, their line
held. and after two downs for smatl
mains, a placement was tried, but A.
Riddick, the fast half-hack for Wake
Forest, tare through and broke up the
nunt. C. Walker. recovered — Tr was
Davidson’s ball in the middle of the
Geld. The ball went over ta Wake
orect on downs. Witherington and
Riddick each made beautiful runs for 8
vards. An attempted forward pass was
intercepted by C. Walker, wha ran 20
vards. After three dawns. which netted
« vards. McKinnon kicked 20 vards to
Wake Forest’s 1s-vard live, Several
punts were then exchaneed and then
enarter ended with the ball in) Wake
Forest's possession on their %s-vard line.

During the second quarter the ball
was sew-sawed un and down the field.
ceveral punte being exchanged. Toward
the last. with the ball well in David-
san’s territory. bv two successful for-
ward nasses for 1s and 1? vards, the lat-
ter being received by Witherington he-

(Continued on page 4)

Roy Moose Will Be Here for All Kinds of Photography Work December 1-9
