The DAVIDSONIAN

VOL 2.

»

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON. N. C., SEPTEMBER 23, 1914.

NO 3

Gymnasium Now Being'“Buy a Bale” Movement Season’s Lyceum Attrac-/Davidson to Meet Strong

Remodeled.

Started In Davidson.

tions Announced. |

Foot Ball Rivals.

Workmen Busy on Much Needed Other’ Interesting Town News of Splendid Course Is Promised by Opponents Are All Now at Hard

improvements.

The Morrison Memorial Hall, the
first floor of which is used tor a gym-
nasium and the second flour tor ¥. M.
C. A. meetings, is now being thoroughly
remodeled in the interior and in other
respects is being made more neat and at-
tractive in appearance. The present
building was erected in 1890, twenty-
tour years ago, in memory of Dr, Robert
H. Morrison, the first president of Dav-
idson College, at a cost of about ‘$4,000.
On account of the present money string-
ency and the further fact that Davidson
expects to have, in a few vears. a new
and up-to-date gymnasium. the contem-
plated improvements will not be as ex-
tensive as they otherwise would be—the
whole outlay, perhaps, tutaling nut more
than $600 or $800.

On the first fluor the balcony sur-
rounding the old basket ball court will
be torn away and the large columns,
four on each side of the court, will be
removed, Jeaving the second floor to be
supported by large iren suspensions.
‘These columns, against which many
Davidson basket ball players have re-
ceived unpleasant knocks, will be re-
moved. Thus the length and width 0?
the present basket ball area can both be
increased by twenty feet, giving ample,
room for a basket ball court of the re-
quired dimensions. “Vhis addition will
also be sufficient to give the “gym
classes room in which te perform. “The
annex to the rear for shower baths will
be recovered and the inside entirely
renovated. “Vhe rear ream upstairs.
which for several vears has oeen utilized
for dormitory purposes, will be fitted up
with desks and used as.a daboratory tor
Junior and Senior applied math.

These much needed improvements.
adding as they de much tu the beauty.
and usefulness of the gvninasium. are
welcomed. “Vhe college hopes in a few
vears, however, to hive one of the most
beautiful and modern gymnasiums in the |
State on its campus.

DR. WEATHERFORD TO SPEAK
TONIGHT:

The regular meeting of the Y. Mi. C.
A. will be held tonight instead or ‘Vhurs-
day night. ‘The voluntary Bible study
cause will be presented and the assacia-
tion is fortunate in having Dr. W. D.
- Weatherford, one of the foremost Asso-
ciation leaders of the South. to speak
No man should fail to ‘hear him. Many
of the students are no doubt acquainted
with his books on the Negru problem.

At the last meeting eighty new
members were received into the Asso-
ciation. J. W. S. Gilchrist gave a vivid
and forceful account ot the Summer Y
M. C. A. Conference at’ Biue Ridge.
which the Davidson men attended.

The outlook for the vear’s work is
most bright. “The attendance on the
Thursday night meetings has been ex-
cellent. W. A. McIlwaine. chairman of
the Devotional Committee. is arranging
an interesting and helpful program for
the year.

Davipsontan Teaders will be interest-
ed to know that Tim Pharr. who was
contemplating taking an M.A. at Dav-
idson this vear, has gone to Union Theo-
logical Seminary, Richmond.

_ Mr. Robt. W. McKay ((16) was ini-
tiated into the Kappa Sigma Fraternity
a few days ago.

The Week.

‘Phe two local firms that buy cotton,
the Brown-Knox Mercantile Company.
and M. H. Goodman & Co., have an-
nounced their intention ot doing their
full share ot the work in supporting the
local market. “Vhe first firm has for-
warded circulars to its cusiomers to the
effect that up to two hundred (200)
bales they will accept cotton at 10 cents
per pound on merchandise, fertilizer ac-
counts or in trade, no cash to be paid,
and not over two bales to the customer
at the 1o cent figure. In order to as:
sist their customers to carry their cotton
they have made arrangements with their
bankers to advance them 8 cents on two
hundred (200) additional bales. “This
cotton is to be used on collections only.
The latter firm makes the same offer,
but to the present date has not decided
how long they will make this — offer.
‘They have made no arrangements to as-
sist their customers to carry over their
cotton, The same offer thar is) being
made by the above merchants fs being
tendered to farmers in’ a number of
small towns throughout the State. ‘Phe
effect of this offer was shown the first
day by the fact that fifteen bales were
delivered to the Brown Knox Company,
it being the first tor the week.

TOWN TPES.

Miss Leulie Baskervile lett Monday
for Fredericksburg, Vian, where she will
spend the remainder of the wanter with
relatives.

Mr. RB. O. Alexander, class of °70. ot

Charlotte. was a visitor here Thursday

Mr. George Worth, class of (ta. and
now studving ue in New York, was a
visitor here Friday of Alrse J. M
Worth. :

Among the Charlotte motorists who
came up “Vhursday were Alisses Ella
Adelaide and Sarah Moseles.

Mv. ‘Charley Lambeth passed threugh
here receatly on his wav to Charlotte.
Mrs. Thomas Wharev is here for
some time visiting Mrs, R. 1. Gray. be
fore her return trip to Montreat,
+

ry

Mrs. B. J. Witherspoon, Mise Lun
Holmes Carson. and Mesdames BR. E..
Glasgow and C. M. Carson were visit:
ors here Saturday. motoring up from
Charlotte.

«

A new Mission Sunday school has re
cently been opened up in Delburge dis-
trict by the Presbyterian Sunday school.
Mr. John Reid is superintendent.

« ¢ *

Mrs. Hvde and daughter, Miss Amey
Herrick, and Miss Angie Wilmot, of
Crystal River, Fla.. are visiting Mrs. C.
kk. Herrick at the home of Mrs. Cran-
ford. Mrs. Hyde is the mother of
“Kid” Herrick, who graduated in ‘12.

cd > ?

Misses Mary Richards, Louise Man-
ning, Irene Hudson and Mildred John-
ston, and Messrs. George Hudson, Ray
Howland, William Neal and Marion
Boggs. spent a delightful afternon last
Saturday on a picnic to the Beach Tree.

ew

Mrs. P. A. Kellv has been visiting at
the home of Mrs. J. M. Potts.

Managers. |

The series ot Lyceum attractions |
which is being planned tor this seasen,
contains seme unusually good offerings.
Manager Carter announces that al
though final arrangements have not been
completed, the opening number in Dav-
idson will be given about October io.
Four attractions have already been
secured. ‘These include the following.
under the management of the Redpath
Lyceum Bureau: Mir. Alton Packard.
‘The Weatherwax Brothers, Mr. Wm.
Rainey Bennett, and-the Military Girls.

Mr. Packard has made repeated ap-
pearances in many of our leading ciries
and has been well received. His sketches
and renditions are humorous indeed, and
should be enjoyed.

‘The Weatherwax Brothers, a quartet,
have made quite a reputation tor them:
| selves and come highly recommended.
The program rendered by these gentle
men include instrumental and, vocal
selections and readings.

William Rainey Bennett's lectures
have reeeived complimentary comments
from men of note throughout the coun
trv. He deals with topics that are of
national importance today, and which
ever one he clects to deliver, here will
contain much that will he of interest
and. lasting benefit.

‘The program: offered by the Military
Girls will contain something new and
distinctive in’ Lvceum werk,  “Uhis
teature is a reproduction ot scenes that
recall the early. piodeer daveof Gar ua
tr. A Fife and Drum Corps and o:
chestral work are also an umportanr.
feure of this program.

In regard to the additional attractions:
“Tt a sufficient number of season tickets
are sold several other numbers will be
haoked. |
Fo Fer the benefit of the new men. asi
well as tor that af the old. w should bes
stated that these courses are arranged by
the managers of the Yo VEC. AL for the |
henefit at every student aad citizen ot
Davidson without anv pecuniary gain to
themselves, Sea wlien asked to buv a
ticket evervene can rest assured that thes
wall receive full cate. Ler evervene wet
one and so enable the manager to book:
two oor three other tine attractions tit
ithe Hill.

GUER CLUB SECLERES DIREC
TOR.

Mr. John George Harris. directar af
the Charlotte Glee Chub. hax heen sé
cured by the Davidson College Clee
Club to train this erganization for the
coming vear. Work was begun last
Monday morning with an initial mem
bership of twenty five mens but it is ex-
pected that others will join before the
next meeting. Mr. Harris will devote
an hour and a half.to-this work every
Mondav morning. drilling the members
in the fundamentals of sight singing and
also training them in special part songs.
There is a membership fee of 50 cents a
month, and the organization is open to
leveryone. From this number the quar-
tet and a few picked voices will be
chosen by Mr. Harris to accompany the
Orchestra on its trips. Besides this, there
will be several concerts on the Hill
given by the entire club.

Messrs. I. W. S. Gilchrist and W |
M. Shaw in “beautiful decorations”
paraded the streets on Monday in Gry-
phon Initiation.

Work to Get Ready.

GY course evervone wants to know
who will be played Saturday. Never
before has it been as dificult to get early
games. ‘This is due to the fact that such
teams as usually play carly have stopped
playing foot ball. Among these are Ca-
tawba, Lenoir, Mt. Pleasant, the Deaf
and Dumbs, and a few other colleges.
Horner Military Institute just started
practice yesterday and will not be in
shape to give an early game. “Che man-
ager, however, is still in hopes, and is
determined to have some team here on
September 26. ‘Uhe team will either be
Bingham or Piedmont, Last Saturday
several telegrams were exchanged with
the Lniversity of ‘Tennessee to play them
the first game on their grounds, but the
date could not be arranged as they want-
ed the game on October 3.

The open date, October 24. will most
probably by plaved with the Citadel.
either in Charleston or some neutral
point. ‘Phere is a possibility of its being
plaved in Savannah.

The Clemsan °Vigers” will be here
Saturday week, and the contest is: sure
to be one of the hardest contests ever
plaved between these two institutions.

Kvervbody in’ the toot ball) world
knows Bob Williams. and this means
that the ““Vigers” wall be well coached.
Carson, a former star, tnd Gantt will be
his assistants. Some ot Ciemson’s last
vear material graduated, and a few oth
ers did not return, Among these Logan.
DuRant.. Carson, Gandy and one or
two others, Of last vents Varstty.
Webb. Schilleter. Lames. Bristol. Strib
ling: Jones. Randall, Littléjaha. Mier.
and much available new material.

Vhe Citadel has one of the strongest
teams ther have had for several vears.
and the probable contest with them will
he a Hard one, wherever it is plaved. *
Coach George Rogers has) as assistants
three or foun’ star Alanini plavers.

The University of South Carolina is
weak this vear in old men to retura, birt
seme of then may vet come back. At
present the following have not returned :
Van Kalnitz Captain, MeGowan, “Big?
Mills (roo bad he won't vet to ‘pitch
against Davidson again), Sligh, Weh
man and Boulware; Dan Hevward is
expected ta be hack soon. + Carolina's
apening game is to-be plaved an Seprem
her go with Farman. “Phis game pre-
cedex Gao “Vech. game on October 4,
Coach Edgerton, known here as “Red.”
issare to develop. out of the. promising
new anaterial, a youd team. Ele as ably
assisted by Castella. a) foot ball star of
wide reputatian. ‘The game oan Novem: -
her tg will be al warn one, Davidson
must recover last vear'’s defeat on her
own grounds,

The Cniversitv of North Carolina has
the most. promising prospects in the his-
tory of that institution, “Chev have a
strong coaching staff’ in’ Head Coach
“Doguie” ‘Vrenchard,  Bluthenthal and
Cunningham are two of thé best assist-
ants to be found. “The: ciaim to, be in
two weeks’ better condition than. ihev
were this rime last Fall. Tn the first
line-up of the “Bull Dogs” there were:
ends, Homewood and Grimsley; tackles.
Ramsey and Jones; guards, Cowell and
Foust; center, ‘Vandy; quarter, Allen:
halves. Vavlor and Fuller; Ervin, full,
There is an abundance of new material
there to develop also. The contest in
Winston will he a hard one, but with
the “old Davidson pep” which has been

(Continued on page 4)

Buy Your Season Lyceum Tickets Friday Night, $2.00
