The DAVIDSONIAN

VOL 2.

_

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON. N. C., SEPTEMBER 30, 1914.

NO 4

Dr. Weatherford Speaks Town News of the Johnson. and Crawford ‘Clemson “ Tigers” Play

to Student Body.

Well Known Student Secretary |interesting Items.

Visits Davidson.

Davidson was indeed fortunate in be-
ing able to secure Dr. Weatherford last
Wednesday to address the student body
and assist the Y. MC. A. in its cam-
paign for Voluntary Bible Study. This
yreat Southern leader in Y. M. C. A.
and other religious and social work was
already well known by a large number
of men both through personal acquaint-
‘ance at the Summer Conferences and in-
directly through his books on the Negro
problem which have been studied here.
He is a man of wonderful leadership
and executive ability, which with his in-
tense enthusiasm makes him a power in
his work with college men.

On last Wednesday. at the 10:10
period, the bell was rung continuously
for five minutes. and the men, excused
from recitations for that hour .began to
crowd into Shearer Hall to hear Dr.
Weatherford speak. From = the very
start he held the earnest attention of
every student, as he showed. strikingly
and powerfully how one man’s influence
affects all others with whom he comes
in contact. His address was based on
the passage, “And a man shall be as the
shadow of a great rock in a weary land.”
He pictured first what the shadow of a
reat tock meant to a tired traveller on
the hot Svrian deserts. Vhe application
to everv-dav life was that a man could
make the influence of his character a
great work, into whose shadow - those
whose characters were weaker, could re
treat. Dr. Weatherford said that prin-
ciples were only powertul &hen lived in
the lives of men. He stressed the fact
that a few men who have caught the
vision of Ged would show to the world
that God is living. . }

A number of apt and vivid illustra: |
tions were scattered through the address.
One had its setting in a Western college.

The foot ball team of this college was
anxious to win its closing game. “The |

‘coach went to a‘game of the opposing |
team and watched every play. When he
returned to his’ team he said that he
could checkmate all their opponent's
plays, but for a single man who was a
tower of strength. “Vhen he began form-
‘ing a plan by which they couid all knock
out that single man.- All the men were
reluctantly following the coach in his
diabolical’ scheme, none being strong
enough to stand forth in opposition. But
finally one stalwart end in the corner
arose and said in a firm voice, “Coach,
if that’s the tactics, you'll have to count
me out of the game.” Then, one by
one, the men who had been too weak to
stand alone, said, “You'll have to count
me out, too, Coach.” That one man
had become as the shadow of a mighty
tock,

Dr. Weatherford emphasized in clos-
ing the psychological truth that “char-
acter is caught, not taught.” He quoted
Henry Drummond: “IT become a part
of every man | meet, and every man _be-
comes a part of me.” He told the vivid
story of Horace ‘Iracs Pitkin, the Yale
student who gave up his life in the
Boxer uprising, ending with these words.
“By living for others. we, bring others
closer to God, and this is the greatest
oprortunity of our college life.”

Wednesdav night the hall was well
filled, and Dr. Weatherford spoke on
“The Bible as a Book of Experience-
of Persons.” Students. he said. should
not go to the Bible for literature. his-

(Continued on page 4)

Week.

Social and
Personal.

The Book Lovers’ Club had a very
pleasant meeting with Mrs. Arbuckle,
Thursday afternoon. “The next meet-
ing will be with Mrs. A. Currie, on
October to.

Dr, Scott, from Statesville, was here
Monday in consultation with Dr. Shear-
er concerning college matters.

Mrs. Ed. McConnell and children,
from Gastonia, are visitors of Mrs. J.
W. MeConnell for a short while.

au .

Mrs. M. S. Dupuy was here ‘Vhurs- Dave Crawford finally won out.

day tor a brief visit.
ed 7

Mrs. Arbuckle spent the day in Char-
lotte last Friday.
4

Invitations have been received to_the

marriage of Miss Lilian Reid to Mr. game. Crawford on the other hand is
Robert Lee Rutzler, the marriage to) pot so ft i
take place October. 15 at the Second | alwavs puts the ball where the other fel-

Presbyterian church.
*

ae tf

‘The Girls’ Basket Ball ‘Team has re-| vetting rapidly about the court with re

organized with an enthusiastic meeting
led by Miss |. [.. Foreman.

Miss Francis Worth has left. for cal-
lege at Winston-Salem.
2 nog

Miss Mary Richards left Wednesdar
hay che Callege for Women, Columbia
S. C.. She was accompanied by her
mother, Mrs. Richards, who will vis’
her friends in Semter and Manning.

s °

Mr. fo R. Ross and tamily. and MI
ond Mars. Devetle. af Charlotte, spent
Supday with Abs P:

sisten .

7 oa

Vics Viore. Bheatae Cirev and Master
lames Rutledge Withers were baptised
Sunday bs Dr. Richards.

Virw and Mrs. Fowle and Miss Fowle.

who have been wetins their sons for the
past week, left Monday :for their home
in Washington, N.C.

Miss C. O Alevarrder is visiting at
the home of Mrs. Paisley.

4 ° ro

My. and Mires Chas. Robeson, of Bay
St. Louis, Mo., have been visiting atthe
hone of their relatives, Mr. and Mr
A Cherie Inet week. “They lefr with
Mrs. Frank Robeson for her hame in
Wilmington, N.C

Pe sgident Martin left: for Hartaville
© C.. where he made teva addresses
He expects to. sneak at other points in
the State before his return.

* * .
lackson, of University of
here Mondav.

Mr. A. R.

Arkansas, was a visitor
ya

Dr. TP. Viera, af Charlotte, was
a visitor here Moandav.

Mr F. W Wakefield, of Charlotte.

spent Sunday here.

RECEPTION TO GOLF CLUB.

Mrs. Arbuckle will entertain the
Golf Club next Friday evening at 8
o'clock. This is the first of a series of
social evenings that are being planned
by the club. and the student members of
the club will be particularly welcome.

~ Win Tennis Doubles. Here Saturday.

“Tigers” Have Best Team In Six
Years.

Interesting and Exciting Matches
Played In Tournament.

Saturday's contest will be one of the
greatest and hardest fougiit games that
has ever been plaved in this section ot
the State. It will be a “fight-to-the-
finish,” and the victors of that day have
much to do. ‘The rivalry between these
two institutions, though friendly, has for
sears been very keen. Inzerest is high
for many reasons; first, this is the first
real game of the season; then it is the
real big game to be plaved “on the
Hill.” Also, Davidson is determined to
win to get revenge for the game that,
was lost to Clemson on their grounds
Clemson has never before
plaved- her? y Davidson, and this is the
first opportunites that many in. this sec-
tion have ever had to sce the “ferocious”
‘Livers play.

Clemson has for vears sustained and
upheld the “rep” of having one of the
hest teamsein the South, They are coming
to Davidson Saturday, so the newspaper
Lrenorts sav, with determination and con-
fidence ‘of victory. The coaching staff at
Clemson is one of the best in the South
today. Bob Williams as head coach has
a reputation throughout the South for
his ability. He has several able assist-
ants. Clemson is always careful in send-
ing out reports of their team's condition.
and unless they are good they do not
make anv: however. the “dope” in’ the
dailies, sent drom there, say they have
the best team that Clemson has had in!
over six vears. “Phis statement has been
tesued several times in the last week, and
has authority behind it. The ‘Vigers”
have had seme aiuesually strone teas
in the past four or five vears, and sich
nostatement mens that the “Red and
Black” amachine has a big and mighty
preposition to po up apainse Saturday,
But Coach Fetzer’s Sauad is, gerting in
shape evers day wateh them

The annual tennis tournament held
here last week was exceptionally fine.
AN through it was characterized by
strong rivalry and good feeling. The
playing was splendid. Every combatant
was keyed up to do his best, and the
many spectators witnessed some vers
pretty. playing.

The singles have not vet been tinish-
ed, but wall be’completed soon. In the
doubles each couple set his hand against
the hand of ten other couples, and mars
hard fought matches resulted. As every
one expected, Norman Johnson and

It is no small treat to see “Long
Boy" and “Dave” plav doubles. John
son.plays a fast driving game with a lot
of “pep.” He uses his extraordinary
height to a great advantage, smashing
in his serves, and plaving a brilliant net

ast,, but he is very sure, and

low isn't. He likewise uses his statue,
comparatively diminitive, to advantage.

markable ease. “The team work is clock
like. a combination of strength and strat-
exy, and is marked with frequent: sta:
plays. To Davidson men they seem in
vincible, and all expect: great. things of
them in oncoming ‘meets.

The hardest fought singles match so
far was probably that: between M.A.
Ropes and ‘Vom VFinlev. Again’ and:
again the games were run into almost |
ndless deuce, fine shots and pretty labs
‘eing mixed in with a strong, steady
eame on both sides. ‘Vhe third set hing
to stup late one evening at 5 5. Tt we
begun over the neat atternsen, and
Finley won, ; {

The matches vlaved since last week’: ;

iecne of Tire Davinsontanx were av better

tollaws: i Saturday.
In the Doubles: . TIGERS’ SQUAD.
lobnsen and Crawtord — deieated

With a student heady ot almast nine
hundred students, the) squad ont each
afternoon dambers aluiest one hundred,
javith over seven teams running signals
and scrimmaging every single alterncon,
) Williams and his able assistants, so i ts
stated, have their team in ten days’ het-
ter trimothan this time last Fall, Ot
and Mitchell. fast year’s Varsity Squad seventeen have
lahnwnn and Crawford deteated Kin now renurned ; among. these are: Sehil
lev and Finley. 6 2. G 3.3.7. OF. x liter £Capt.), Webb, Suggs, Brandon,,
In the Singles: | Stribling, fames, Barnette, Carhart,
H. Minter deteated. Thomas, 677, 6-2. Majer, MeMillian, Hamilton, Marill
R. Minter defeated Hawkins 6-4, 6-4 fund Gee. Schilliter, all Soutitern tackle,
Reese defeated White, G-0, 6-4. will he one of the most. powertdl foot
T Finley defeated Bogus, 6 2, 1-6, 6 2. ball’ men ever seen in this section, He
lohnson defeated H. Minter, 6 2, 6-4. has made his. “black Cc for the past
Crawford defeated R. Minter.0-2, 6-3 three years; built like a giant, he tps the
Reese defeated F. Price. 6-4. 8:6. “TV scales at 198 pounds. Panney Webb, at
The winner of the match, PT. Kinley full-back, who was in every play against
vs. Johnson, will plav the winner of the Davidson last Fall, is plaving his fourth
match, Crawfard vs. Reese. in the finals consecutive year, He is a “ten-secay
on Wednesday. man, weighs t75 pounds, is a hard aml
’ sure tackler, and a great punter He ts
vere much the type of Dan Heyward.
Webb also has made his block letter the
past three years. Stribling weighs 165.
has plaved a consistent and brilliant end
for two seasens: James, weight 170.
plavs half back, and is verv fast. having
plaved for three years; Major is also a
half-back, and is a star: Gee has played
for three vears, and is a srrong player.
Besides the above. and many — second
-quad men back, Clem: on also has manv
promising new men who are working
hard to make the team, so the cighteen

(Continued on page 4)

Viinter and Minter, G-0, 4-6..0 4.
Steverman and Mitchell defeated be,

Price and Bogus. O- 4. Gee

| Johnson and Crawford defeated Ale |

Kee and Roddev. 6-2, 6 4.
Fintes and Finlew deteared

vrath and Kennedy, 6-2. G-1.
Finley and Finley defeated Steverinan

Bellin

DAVIDSON WINS AT
. ERSKINE.

The Davidson tennis team has
begun its triumphal march. Mon:
day night the following telegram
was received from Erskine College:

" , "

Davidson wins doubles, three
straight sets.”

Davidson also won both singles.

JS

e
*
s

ae

See Lowenberg’s splendid line of Shoes, Oet. 6, 7, 8, al 7 Ga.
