The DAVIDSONIAN

VOL 2.

Delivers Address on
General D. Hi. Hill

Davidson College Day Observed.
General Hill’s Son Among
Those Present.

Qn dast “Fhursday morning Davidson
College celebrated the — seventy-eighth
‘anniversary of its founding, the chief
teature of the program being an address
on Gen. D. H. Hill, by Dr. Henry A.
Sheppard, of Baltimore. Preceding him.
‘Dr. Hill, son of General Hill, and pres-
ident of the A. & M. College. at Ral-
eigh, spoke briefly to the students urg-
ing then to make their education count
tor something more than mere learning
itlone.

Then followed Dr. Sheppard's clo-
quent address on General Hill, tormer
professor of mathematics here. Prefac-
ang his speech+with a few remarks about
the. college in the fall of °58. Dr. Shep-
pard recalled how he, as a Freshman,:
highly esteemed in his own eves. had
been criticized by Generai Hill, and
many traits of character which he de-|
veloped in later vears he attributes to
his contact with this professor, who was
a successful educator, a brave and dar-
mg soldier, and an eminent Christian
ventleman,

When the war broke out General
Hill was among the first to come to’ his
country’s aid. He was made colonel of
the kirst North Carolina Volunteers.
and saon rose to the rank of major-
weneraul. fn the campaigns in Virginia.
Hill was one of Lee's most efficient gen: |
erals: Dr. Sheppard served in the same
campaigns as perhaps the youngest com
missioned officer in the army, and many
of the incidents that he related were
tram his own observation, On ane oc-
casion while Hill and Lee were Sitting |
on acrail fence eating dinner, a cannon
ball tore away the tail of General Hill=<
coat. Hardly noticing the incident, he
ook another sip ef molasses and con
tinued the meal.

Perhaps the most daring incident inj
General Hill's career, was when at thes
Battle of South Mountain with but five
thousand men he taced — A16Cletlan’s
army, which outnumbered his four or
live to one, At this time Lee's army
was widely scattered, and for General,
Hills division, which was covering the
rear guard retreat over Harper's Ferry,
ta have given way would have meant
utter defeat. General Hill was equal
to the occasion, however, and his lines
held even against such overwhelming
dds, until aid came and the retreat was
soecessful.

After the war General Hill returned
«0 Charlotte. taking up. a literary ca
reer. He became the author of a stand-
ard treatise on the.“Elements ot Alge
bra.” and two very valuable — works,
“The Crucifixion of Christ” and “Con-
sideration of the Sermon on the Mount.”
He died in 1889 and is buried in’ the
cemetery here.

K. A. FRAT WINS CUP. |

The Belk Fraternity Cup. given ,
Mr, W. H. Belk, of Charlotte, N.
and awarded each year to that fraternity
whese class average for the entire un- |
dergraduate membership of the chapter
is the highest for the vear, goes this |

time to the Kappa: Alnha fraternity.

/A. C. Fairley (15). who had the
misfortune to break his right arm while
playing basket ball recently, is .improv-
ing rapidly.

by
ny

[Davidson Scores Field Goal and Holds

Corolina to Two Touchdowns and Safety

Tar Heels Make Long Gains On Forward Passes While the Presby-
terians Put Up Game and Determined Fight.

Fighting like demons. Fetzer’s “Red
and Black Machine” put up one ot the
gamest and finest exhibitions of toot ball
on Jast Saturday that has ever been seen
in the State, and opened the eves ot the
2.300 spectators by cholding the heavy
North Carolina team tt’ the score of

16 to 3.

“The best team Carolina has ever
had.” aspiring for Southern champion-
ship. was outplaved 2 te 4 in the first
half of the game. in Winston-Salem.
Though ontweighine Davidson fifteca
pounds per player, Carolina was plaved
off its feet in these first two quarters,
and for the first time this vear, they were
held scoreless in the first ali. With
three points ahead, the | Presbyterians
had broken up Carolina's. ferce attacks.
had thrown her runners for big losses
time after time, and had outplayed the
“Bulldogs” in every department of the
eame:

The final score at 16 to 3 does nat
begin to tell how close and hard tought
the game really was. tor thongh out
scored, the -Davilsonians were not ont
ohaed.  “Phroughant the game — thes
chowed far mere “spérit” than the “Var
Heels. Carolina was absolutely unable
to make anv consistent gains through
Davidson's line. Big: ‘Vandy, Cowell
Tones anu Ramsey met their mateh tert
once this vear. Carolina excelled in
only one department, and that was tr
forward passing, and to this only can b:
attributed their victory. The wiy tr
hich White Gloer, Captain Howell
Anderson and VanDevanter smothered

‘TOWN
A) delighttul Hiallaween  pariy was
given Saturday night by Misses Hore.
Payne and Johnsen at the home ot Mlrs.
Johnson. Spirits. spooks amd ghosts
presided over the merry making until
the stroke uf the clock annouticed the
approach of Sundav.

PPE NIS.

Mir.and Mrs. |. 1. Lane, ot Palathe
Fla., spent Sunday here as guests of Une,
son. Mir. D2. W. Liane.

Rev. Dr. Lacy Little filled the puipa
both for the morning and evening sers
ices here Stinday, speaking pefore a large
gathering, on China:

es,

Mrs. Lacy Little addressed the Tadies
of the town Monday atternuon, on bor
cign Missions in China.

Abrs. Larrason and Miss Jennie Lar
rason left Monday morning for Van
couver, where they will make their home
in the future. Wuring their two years
of residence here they have inade man
friends.

‘The many friends ot Mrs. Fulton are

glad to note that she has returned. after
spending the summer in Danville, Ky.
. .

Mrs. Vardell left Tuesday for Red
Springs. N. C.. after spending the past
month here visiting Mrs. Martin.

Virs. W. D. Vinson spent Sunday in
Rock Hill. S.C.

Miss Sarah Wooten, of Queens Col-

| lege, spent Sunday here with her mother.

Carolina’s terrific line plays, held the
powerful backs like a stone wall and
broke up the famous and renowned “Vat
Heel shifts was a wonderful sight.

Davidson's three points came ine the
second quarter, after Carolina for third
time had tailed to gain the required dis
tance, immediately atter White had re
covered Long's fumble. With the ball
on the forty-vard line, aleKinnon’s
trusty toe sent it sailing between the
goal posts. On three other ovtcastons
Davidson with luck would have scored
Kirst when White recovered a fumble
he was beund for an touchdown with an.
aven field. and was tackied from be
hind on Carolina’s twenty-vard line.
Second, Austin narrowly missed a tor
ard pass with a clear field before hin
Third, when Cravton caught the last
fopward pass there was only one Tar
Heel between him and goal. but he
tackled him after a thirty-vard ran.

Caroljna’s touchdowns came as resi!
t several well-executed forward nisse
‘tn each ease the runner was tackled at
Were a Devid entars ber after piste

iend turning they bret loose the fie
-oan-end ren. the last ona farward
pass.

The eereninding feature of the bart!
sasthe brilliant Gelr nut en by Fetzer’
entire team and the far superior ender
ance of the Davidson men, The pla:
ing of the Fae was. great. MeKinnor
was astar throughout: some of bee punt
went for over sixty vardy Walker.
Black, Laird, all played great Wall in

Ww

(Continued on page 4)

FUNIORS WIN TWO GAMES.
After losing the first three games the
Juniors came back strong. winning tron
the. Freshmen on ‘Vuesdav, 20 20. and
fram the Seniors on Wednesday. 12-0.
A change in the fume: line up which
‘resurlred in better team work to some cx
‘tent accounts for this reversal ot torm.
On Tuesday after the Girst few, pian
butes of play the Jumors were neve:

headed. completely cutclassing the league]

fenders. ty the second hatt Captar
Caron sustained an iniuryw which will
keep him out of the remaming games
i bor the Freshnien. Worth and Henec
iveld plaved a vood game, winie Carson
jiftayt and Ountas starred far the pur
lors,

‘The game Wednesday was the had
est fought of the season, only two fie) }
voaly beine shar in the first halt. The
result of the game was ia doubt cll the
last tew minutes of play. when the [un
jars succeeded in shooting  fwoe goals
The low seare shaves the wark of the
wuards, while Hove’. plaving at farward
was the feature of the game

Standing ot the teams to date:

Wan. Lost. PC tage

Fresh 1 730
Seniors 2 2 50)
finiors 2 3 OO
Sophs \ 2 332

Rev. ‘I. H. Spence, of Smithfield. \
C.. class af ‘07. and winner of the Tun-
jor medal, was a campus visitor here

Monday.

Rev. R. A. Melend Co8) and Rev
T. P. Bales Coo) stopped over for
Davidson Day last ‘Thursday.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON N. C., NOVEMBER 4, 1914.

‘they can counton tora great deal.

Contest With Furman
Last Game on Hill

South Carolina and Wake Forest
Will Follow. Both Have
Developed Stong Teams.

Vhere are only three move games for
the Red and Black this seasan, namely,
Furman, University. of South Carolina,
and Wake Forest. “Vhe first of | the
above teams comes to the Hill next Sat-
urday with an aggressive bunch of plav-.
ers. Leis Furman’s second: year of foot
ball. and this season she has: measured’
her strength against Clemson, Wofford,
and many other. colleges in South Caro-
lina. and they have not tailed to show.
abundance of fight and pep, and in such
aomanner they deteated Wofford. Last

Saturday they met) Mercer in’ a hard
tought game, and although they lost,
Mercer was pushed more than once.

which shows considerable improvement
since the season began. Her plavers are’
young and light: but heady and scrappy.
and promise Davidson a good game.
The probable line up is tollows:.
Senter, Mi Mobley: right guard, Bates:
night tackle. Vinslev: right: end, Greg
ory deft guard. Rice: lett tackle, Jones:
lett end. Ford: quarter. dtahns righ:
halt-back, FL Moblevs left: half back.
Nelson: tull back, Goressette, ‘
On November tg. Davidson mects
Wer old rival “Vhe Gamecocks” in Co
lumbia. ‘“Vhis promises to besa hard
fought game because Carolina has theee -
men when ther can use apainst: David
son who were ruled out against Clem

as

con, Newberry and other teams in’ the
So 1 AL AL Vhey are Passtllagae.
Plaxico, and Jehnson,  “Vhe first ts a

fast, and heavy backfield van. whom
: The?
second is a ten second end, and will
doubtless create much excitement, Phen,

jtae, Daa Elev ward is ‘geting Yo better

shape every day, “Phe Gamecock squad
is well conched this season by Red ger

ton, anoold Davidson star, and Costello,
the Alb Sauth Athmtic | quarte at
Ciearvetown last vear)  “Vhes are laving
tar Davidson, and wall pet up a great

tight.

Phe Vhankseiving gime which aw te
he phived ia Charlot avauist. " Vhe
Sapte” ix-going to be dvorker, Wake

Vrgest has been viucing in stvengro every
'y and tat Saturdat they defeated
Decnake College iwhothave an unusi
MT aad team tbs veniiand have always
had the rep of putting: gut strong tcanas,
bon scare at +0 cc Billines is ae
teat phaver. and a heady oan! fast
agarper. ba Vase thew have at fast
sround pawwer and bath Rididhck and
Ream are hard line ‘phingers: — also
Durch Witherington is a strong bach,
field man. “Vhe liae 15 larger and heav

to

Gey than usual this year. and they ate

hard charwzers. ‘Chea care looking tor -
ward to the game with ‘Phe Red and
Placks with mmich anticipation, and
veaith determination, they say, fo get ve-
cenor for defeats ot The bv vone vests.
Sao theie slovan ts “Ont Vo Charlotte —
Reat Davidson!”

GIBBS ADDRESSES Yo M.

CL AL,

Last ‘Vhursday night C. M. Gibbs, ot
the Senior class. addressed the regular
meeting of the Y. M.C. AL Aly. Gibbs
is a very sincere, earnest: speaker, and
held a large audience deeply interested
as he developed his subiect. “Reverence.”

A great deal will be added to the
success of the Y. M. C. A. meetings it
the nien assemble promptly at 7:15 p.m.
rather than at 7:20 or 77230.

Ralston Shoes for sale by Rowland G McIntire, 10Ch.& 15W.
