i)

The DAVIDSONIAN.

April 7, 1915

INTERESTING Y. M. C. A.
MEETING LAST THURSDAY.

‘The third of the series of ,
Work" addresses, “Business as a “Lie
Work,” was presented at the Y. M. C.!
A. last Thursday evening by J. P. Wil-|
hiams and Mr. F. L. Jackson in an in-
teresting way. “The former showed that
pleasure, fascination, and independence

The Davidsonian

Poblished every Wednesday ef the College Year
by the Students of Davidson College.

@FFICE, {9 SOUTH CHAMBERS
Beurs: 7:00 te 7:30 P. M.

Kprrortar Boaro

A. P. Williams........ hditor-in-Chicf| were thre things that were assoctated
J. Mitchell... ... Managing Editor| with the life of a systematic business
P. B. Price... 0... Assignment Lditor| man. Mr. Jackson said, by way ot in-

troduction, that God never makes a mis-
take with His creative rights. He gave
the qualities of a successful business man
as honesty, the bed-rock principle; an
analytical mind; open-mindedness; tact.
and humor, and also brought out the
beautiful thought that God is to be the
Great Accountant at the end of
earthly life; that the individual is charg-
ed with money, intellect, health, capacity
for morals, and a capacity ‘for increasing
these God-given essentials. His closing
challenge was: “What have we on the
credit side?”

ALUMNI CATALOGUE.

Tuk Srare

T. 1D. Sparrow
R. H. Ratchford
Bustiss MANAGER
J. H. Carson
Revorvrers
William Hollister J. R. Woods
W. H. Neal Ik. H. Hamilton
: D. V. Hudson .

Latta Law]t

‘Tur Davinsoniax will be glad to
print all signed communications pertain-
Ing to matters of interest.

The BAVIDSONIAN solicits letters ef suggestien| (IH E
and comment en all matters ef carrent wlerest.
Communications mast be signed. An Alumni Catalogue is to .be issued

in the near future, which will be a cata-
logue of every man that has ever attend-
ed Davidson College, and will contain
the address of the student at the time
that he entered college, the number of
vears that he attended college, his pres-
ent occupation and his present address.
It is hoped that this catalogue can be

Entered as second.class matter at the Postoffice,
Davidson, N. C.

Subscription, $1 Per Year

ond ~~ ——-

| EDITORIAL. | gotten out by the first of June, as quite
| JJa few men are at work on it now. It
— ———~ Twill be of use on the office file for ref-

A GOAL. erence and will be of general interest to

all of the former and present students.

DOINGS OF CHESS CLUB.

Filled with a determination to at least
equal the standards, set high by the retir-
ing Staff, the new partners in’ “Pine
Davinsonian begin with this issue the
pleasant duty of recording the events of
“Davidson.”

The Fditoriat Board. the Staff. and
the Reporters, all joined together by a
cammon purpose, have before them the
idea of continuing to make the paper a

The Davidson Chess Club, composed
of twelve members, is now playing the
Spring tournament. Chess is a new
game among Davidson students, al-
though jt was started by the Egyptians.
and has been plaved by the English for
centuries. “Phe following men, R. How-

true representative of the Alumni, Stu-Jard, R. W. Porter, R. W. Morrison,
dent Body and town. Among college/S. ‘1. Henderson, and R. A. Hallibur-

ton, have won from W. EL. Douglas, P.
H. Knox, U.S. Alexander, W. B. Knox,
and W. P. Keesler, respectively. ‘Che
club extends an invitation to all students
who desire to join, Tf vou are interested
see the president, R. A. Halliburton.

RICHARDS BEGINS
CANVASS FOR COLLEGE

Last Sunday Dr. Richards filled his
oulpit for the last time prior to a four
moaths’ leave of absence which has been
granted him in order that he may make
a_canvass for funds ta be ued in the
erection of a new evinaasiom far che col-.
lege. For the first two wees of this
time he will remain here, corresponding
with the various alumni and old classes
in regard to the matter. The remainder
of the time will be devoted to visits te
different sections of the country in the
interest of this fund.

FRESH SOPH DFBATE.

newspapers “Pie Davinsonian holds
the rather unique position of being finan
cially supported and controlled by no
special college organization, such as the
Athletic Association, ar societies. It is
distinctly an enterprise of the whole stu-
dent body. But this is only made pos
sible bv the full support of all those in
terested in the college. Tt has been a
source of ever increasing wonder to nate
the Joyal support all have so far given.
and we hope (hat this interest, fostered
by larger plans for the  callege, shall
constantly increase.

To waive all the news, in an impartial
and unnreiudiced way: a hearty and
ever ready support for the things which
will build on. and a vieareus condemna-
tien of the thines which will tear down:
a hetter and a more truly representative
naner each week—with these things be
fere os. we make our initial bow.

VYCFUM OF SFASON
TO BF HERE SATURDAY

DR.

LAST

The Fresh-Soph Debate. to be held
April 12. in the tia society halls, will
be on the subject, .“‘Resolved, ‘That the
United States should increase its Army
and Navy.” Each speaker will be given
about twelve minutes. Those entering
the debate are: Eu. S. L. Hunter, T.
BR. and J. R. Woods, W. 1... Douglas. H.
B. Fraser, Geo. C. Bellingrath. Win.
Melntesh T. Fo Williams: Phi, W. HL.

Next Saturday evening, Anril 10, the
last mumber of the Lveenny Course will
he given te Shearer Hall at 8 o'clock.
Manager Patrick has succeeded in hank:
ing an ereagemert with Mrs. William
Calvin Chien, af the Alkahest Lyceum
System. Mrs. Chilton is well known
throuehout the country as a. splendid
monodramatiss. She is said to he one of
the mast succecefil readers af the Alka-
hect Sestom, She handles with equal] Neal. C. E. Rankin, G. McDonald, 1.
skill classical cectians, dialects and hu-[A. Thames. W. C. Comming, W. B.
morous monalecues, Her rendition of] Knox, and R. H. Ratchford.

the well known olay. “Pollv of | the ———
SOCIETY SCHEDULES.

Circus.” is said ta be ave of her best.
She takes such plavs and arranges them
Saturday night. April 10—Debate:
Phi Secierv: AfPrmative. McDonald,

into a monodramatic — recital especially
suited for her character representations.

K. A. Mitchell. Mann, Gilebrist. Nega-
tive Prideen, Cooper. McKinnon, M..

This is the last attraction of the seas-
on, and the management has taken paths
and Carriker.
Monrdav morning April 1>—Phi So-

to see that it will be a good onc.
ciety. Bullock, Pavne. Harkey, Neal.
Copeland, Crawford, McIntvre.

E. P. Childs (°18) visited his home
“in Asheville last week.

Bill Osteen, our last vear’s star nitch-
er is now trying out. for the Rocky
Mount team in the Virginia league. Ac-
carding to all reports Bill is making 4

fine showing.

WANTED—To do your house repair

this].
FOR THAT “CONKLIN” Sel f-fill-

|LOST—A vest. -

GERMAN CLUB PLANS.

WANT ADS.

RATES:

One time. 5c. a line. The misinom
charge is the price fer twe lines

At a called meeting in chapel on last,
Friday morning, the Davidson College
German clib*clected Mr. James H.
Carson and Mr. Jeffry D. Smith
managers to have charge of the Com-
mencement dance.

‘The club decided to hold the dance
this year on the Tuctday night after

a {Commencement in Charlotte, either at
| WANTED—To do your Kodak a Country Club or at the Selwyn

—

veloping and finishing. Johnson and| Hotel. ‘Ihe managers have decided to
Hudson, 27 S. Wing Chambers. fix the admission at 33.00, which i is very
reasonable for an affair of this kind. It
WANTED Maran eye Pair e will be necessary for the managers to
: know how many men they can rely on in
order to be able to figure on the expenses.
All men who wish to join the German
Club can hand their names either to Mr.
Smith or Mr. Carson.
This affair has been an annual one for
the last twenty years, and the club hopes
that this one can be made the best of

them all.

work. C. B. Mooney, Phone 4o.

CUSHMAN §
C. Kodak finishing.
Howland. 26 R.

SFUDIO, Charlotte, N.
See A. R.

ing Fountain Pen see H. R. Dish-
ough, 19 Rumople. 7
Finder return to W.

C. E. Herrick ('12) is now agency

T. Evirt, to N. Chambers and re-|cashier for the Fidelity Mutual Life
ceive reward. Insurance Co., at Jacksonville, Fla.
ooo! A

THE EQUITABLE LIFE

During its 55 years’ history has been tested
by panics, wars, fires, and inquisitions, any
of which would have ruined a weak, poorly
managed company. Its existance today is
its strongest recommendation. It stands for

0900000600000.:,

STRENGTH SECURITY SERVICE

THE EQUITABLE
LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY

J. P. QUARLES, Mgr., Charlotte, N.C.

W. J. RODDEY & CO., Mgrs., Rock Hill, S. C.
OO fof

$2O000000040000000000000000000000

a

+ 0000000001. 1:6000006000000000000000000.1
@

{ DAVIDSON COLLEGE }
; DAVIDSON, N. C.
eo

; Full Faculty : Thorough Instruction 3
: WELL-EFQUIPPED LABORATORIES $
$OOOOOS OOOO COSC CO COOCO OOOO! ecceeoococooooosooooooooet
TOeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeesseeeeenneeeeeeeeeeeeeee ee eeeooee s
a

@

; S. Latest from Picadilly 33
; Our Spring and Summer Line of
$  SHIRTS,HATS & CAPS
3 are up to the mark ;
3 BROWN-KNOX MERCANTILE COMPANY $
+ PP OOCoooooooooooooooooooooo.y
+ ooecooooce OE 6000000600000000000000000 “F

When HUNGRY,--- Remember

We always have the very best line of

Fancy Groceries, Fruits and Candy
Always Fresh - Always the best

Give Us A Trial And BE CONVINCED
L. A. ELLIOTT :: Next doorto White Drugo.

POO COCO COC CCC CCC CCS
00000000000000000000

as.

i
