2 Ihe DAVIDSONIAN, October 27, 1915

Hotel
A. J. DUNN Central

Interior 2 CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Decorating

DAMAGE REGULATION.

e “'
Ihe Davidsonian
Pablished every Wednesday of the College Year
by the Stadents of Davidson College.

Since the student body this year has
pledged the Damage Fund remaining at
the end of the session to the Athletic
Association, as much care as_ possible
should be taken in this matter of dam-
aging college property this year, because
the cost of repairs must be met by the
Athletic Association. The amount of

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS
Honrs: 7:00 to 7:30 P. M.

Epitortat Boarp

Headquarters

ds Williams oon eter el damage up to this, time has been com- :
P. B. Price........ Assignment Editor | paratively small, and there is no reason Charlotte, N. C. For Davidson Men
why this should not be a record year.
THE STAFF . On February 25, 1908, at a meeting
T. D. Sparrow _ Wm. Hollister] 5 the Davidson College student body, a
R. H. Ratchford W. L. Law, Jr-| group of resolutions were adopted, of
REPORTERS which the following are a part:
W. C. Cummings aan Thames b Resolved: That we. the members of
J. R. Woods . A. Dumas [the student body of Davidson College. :
J.B! Woods Wt eames fhe student pedy of Davidson Cates! Good, Warm, Cozy, Goodlooking, Roll
oMEN lege property upon the same honor sys- °
1H. Camo MANACEMENT anager | ten eee ow the conduct in has d Collar, Athletic Sweater mt
1 TT Neal examination room.
W. H. Neal Assistant Managers. Fach student body president at the he- FULL STOCK JUST RECEIVED

J. C. Paisley

in

THe Davinsontan will be glad to
print all signed communications pertain-
ing to matters of interest.

ginning of his term of office shall appoint
a committee to he known as the Damage
Committee of the Davidson College Stu-
dent Body.

A list of all damage and removals un-
repérted by members of the student body
to the damage committee shall be posted
by the secretary of the committee upon
the college bulletin boards (In order to
call the attention of the forgetful offend-
ers to such unreported damage).

All damage finally unreported shall
he paid for out of the regular damage
fund held by the college treasurer, every
: member of the student body sustaining
and thought and energy on some subject. an equal amount of the unreported dam-
or series of subjects. He groups his age. , ‘
thoughts together in a manner which can ae It shall be the duty of this committee
be the more readily understood and re-| ., stimmon before it all who fail to com-
membered, and oftentimes, the fruits of ply with any part of these regulations,
a whole life of study and thought, may and jf they sce fit. to turn his case over
be gathered into one short Tecture, which to the student body ‘
can be packed into an hour or less time. Fach member of the student body

So a good lecture is a wonderful thing hereby pledges himself upon his honor to
and a good lecturer, a person not so TATE) onort to the committee all damage and
as people might think, is a personage tol ovals of college property done. by
be sought after. . . himself cither willfully or by accident.

Tr seems that in this one thing at least. Fach member also pledges himself upon
there is a great opportunity for David- his honor to report all such damages and
son. The college is situated within strik- removals done by others and not known
ing distance of the largest city in the to he reported by them, , ow
state, where a great majority of the lead- The damage committee is as follows:
ing men of the country can be found at R. H. Bennett, 25 Ga.: R. G. Finle
one time or another, cither stopping or iW DL McKeithen. 6 R: 1. W.
passing through, and many times it Miller. 21S. W.C.:E. P. Childs. 2 R.:
would be possible to make arrangements| - C. Rellingrath, 60 N.w.c.: LC

for them to come to us. This would re-
quire an active interest in the matter by McAskill, 1 R.; L. P. Good, 13 N. w.
—NOTICE—

some committee, but there is no reason
why there should not be such a commit- .
Coach Fetzer wishes to say that any
student who is not willing to turn over

tee, and through such a committee the

financial difficulties of the matter could | *"
his Damage Fee to the Athletic Asso-
ciation may see him. and the fee will be

be handled, and we are inclined to think
refunded to the student.

THE COMMISSAR YY ar xtnsee two
QUALITY FIRST

Eliminate future troubles by buying in the beginning the best piano. STIEFF
PIANOS have everlasting durability, combined with rich tone and perfect
action. Over five hundred Colleges, Schools, Churches and musicians use

STIEFF PIANOS

_ Write for catalogue and prices

219 S. Tryon St. STIEFF Charlotte, N. C.

Opposite Academy of Music Established 1842

The Sanitary Barber Shop Uses) STUDENTS:

For Engraved Cards and
Clean Towels, Sharp Razors most reasonable prices on

BEST ATTENTION QUALITY PRINTING

get quotations from

Entered as second-class matter at the Postoffice,
Davidson. N. C.

Subscription, $1 Per Year

|
EDITORIAL.

PUBLIC LECTURES.
A lecturer spends a great deal of time

We will appreciate your business. . ae
SPECIAL invitation to aul. |Brady Printing Company-

° STATESVILLE, N. C.
E. R. JENKS, Proprietor) 1. a. MULLEN, Agent

DavIDSON COLLEGE

Daivdson, North Carolina

: THOROUGH COURSES =:
Well Equipped Laboratories

THE LATEST STYLES IN

‘ SCHLOSS CLOTHES
CAN BE SEEN AT
Brown-Knox Mercantile Company

WHY!
Wear soiled and wrinkled clothes when Alexander will keep them
Looking New--6 Suits for $1.00

If you are not a member see our representatives, purchase a ticket
at once and fall in line. All tickets must be endorsed.

THE DAVIDSON PRESSING CLUB

R. L. ALEXANDER, Proprietor

that these difficulties would not be as
great as one might believe at first
thought.

Then, too, it is true that within a cir-
cle of fifty miles from Davidson, can be
found a very large number of men prom-
inent in their various professions, and a
great many of them are Davidson
alumni. It would be a great pleasure to
have them as our guests at various times.
to bring back to the college that which
thev have gained by years of experience.

There is nothing which so helps a man
to decide the work for which he is fit-
ted as the living examples of men in
their various professions and lines of . .
work. And if only this end could be| Phi Society—Octoher 30, Debate—
gained by these lectures, that some men Affirmative : Berryhill, . Coachman,
would find their life work, the lectures| Childs, Campbell, R. G. Finley, Carson.
would be well worth while. Negative: Mountcastle, Morris, D. I.

There has already been some work ac-] McKeithen, Mann, Payne. November
complished in this direction, by organiza-| !: Declamations and Orations: J. Cur-
tions on the Hill, and it ts to be hoped} Te. McClure, Sprunt, Clark, Clary,
that something worth while may come Morgan, McAlister, D. G. Worth,
of them, and that soon we mav have a Sparrow, Shaw, Andrews.
well planned course of lectures ex-| Eu. Societv—October 30, Debate—
tensive enough to be of interest to all.| Affirmative: Meck, J. W. McNeill, D.
V. Hudson. Hoyt. Negative: Mebane,
Norcum. Jenkins, Edgerton. Novem-
ber 1—Declamations: L. H. Patterson,
A. Sprunt, Orgain, C. Robson, G. Rob-
son. Orations: Baker, Hobson, Dumas.
Bennett.

A VOTE OF THANKS.

The generosity of Mr. Elliott, the
grocer, in donating a supply of boxes and
waste material for the bon fire on Satur-
day night was much appreciated by the
students. Co-operation in the interests
of the student body in this way is cer-
tainly not a bad investment.

LITERARY SOCIETIES.

Davidson College Day, which was to
be observed on the 28th of this month,
will be postponed until November 3.
when President Currelfl, of the Univer-
sity of South Carolina, will speak.

