2

¥

The DAVIDSONIAN. March 3, 1915

which is the place for a display of the
more important issues in a more formal

The Davidsonian

Pablished every Wednesday of the Cellege Year

by the Stadents of Davidson College. Annual, which i a’ yet better-dressed

issucs, “These three might be tought

OFFICE, {9 SOUTE CBAMBERS of as the house-garments of our lads,

Bours: 7:00 lo 7:30 P. M. her street clothes, and her reception

; ar | gowns, all of which are necessary to

F. WwW. Price triste eens pditon in Chief form a complete wardrobe. Any Dav-
J.P. Wi liams........ / sila +aU0r) idson student. will readily admit. this:
P. 1). Patrick....... Business Manager| yy, Jady must have a complete wardrobe.

J. H. Carson and L. G. Mdgerton,
Assistant Managers

STAFF:

J. Ut. Carson Norman Johnson
G. W. Gignilliat W. A. Mcllwaine

Revortrnrs’ Starr:
‘T. D. Sparrow W. H. Neal
Latta Law F.. H. Hamilton
‘Tl. J. Mitchell R. H. Ratchford
P. B. Price ID. V. Hudson

Yet in reality is there not a tendency to
over-dress her on one occasion with no
forethought concerning the next? Or

dency under the present method of pub-
lishing these pertodicals? For there is:
only a limited field from which to glean
advertisements, or support, and it is both
human and divine for the manager of
one publication to use his best efforts to
cover that field for his master before an-
other manager can get there. “Uhere can
be but one logical result. In five or six
years one of these periodicals will be
starved out. And? just as a woman, to
he conventional and happy. must have
all three costumes, so Davidson, to be a
first-class college, must) have all three!
records.

Therefore it will be necessary te de-
vis¢ some imeans of connecting the three
by a closer tie than ene of mere senti-
ment. For this ceason it dues not seen)
jmpractical that the financial control of
cach should be placed in the hands of
one board of managers instead of three
such boards. All money should be under
the direction of this board and be pro-
portionally given to the support of each
publication. “Vhe organization of such
a board is a question of mere detail;
which any school boy could work out. !
It should be a democratic board with-
out too much power in the hands of one
mun, because it is not possible to secure
a capable man cach year. “Chen this
hoard should place the contract for the
publication of all three products in the
hands of one printing house, which be-
cause it is getting a large amount of
work, will make a reduction in the cost
of each. And which will also be able
to give more efficient service because it

The DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters ef suggestion
and cemment en all matters ef carrent interest.
Communications must be signed.

Entered as second-class matier at the Dostoffice,
Davidson, N.C.

cription, $1 Per

Year

Su bs

|
EDITORIAL.

The twenty-fourth Junior speaking in
Davidson history, and all's well! |

The annual Junior and Senior Ora
toricals which are rough and) ragged
mountains to be crossed to the tearhal
Junior and Senior, fade fast in the mem-
ory of the alumnus after he leaves. And
yet these exercises are often the begin-
ning of a career, and it is interesting to
turn back through the old magazines and
records to find the subjects of the
speeches of Davidson men of note who
were here in the eighties and nineties
and “nouphts.””

Possibly no class on the Hill has as
much oratorical talent in it as that
which makes its speaking debut the end
of this week. They wall prophecy to

us of the nation’s future, and their] nderstands the work of each of the
speeches will prophecy to us of their| other branches. Of course such a course
future. , as this need not affect the editorial poliey

of either publication. “Phat would be
separate and controlled just as it is now,
This systematic organization would
accomplish several things and be  thor-
oughly practical, By a carefully: graded
scale of prices it would be possible to
sell a merchant advertising space in all
three publications, because it would en-
able him to see that his money was being
‘pent inoa business-like manner: and it
would enable our agent to offer him
snace in the publication of his choice.
‘Then it would enable us to keen our
accounts in a more methodical and svs
tematic way, Besides being able to cover
the territory from which support should
come, we would be able to spend ous
money in a better proportioned manner
with the assurance that peither of our
products would be overlooked. © And
again it would) prevent: our publisher
from charging exorbirantly for. either
product, because after he had “bid” on
the entire work he could better propor
tion the work of cach one. But best of
all, this would-be an orgavization with
the resnansibility centralized. The Cur-
tis Publishine Company — is /
somewhat after this fashion. Tt) pub-
liskes three magazines, each under a dif-
ferent editorial staff. but combines the
financial departments. This svstem has
proved ta be thorourhly practical for
them. And from a husiness standpoint
there is no reason why it should not be
practical for us. Indeed it is doubtful
whether our lady will retain her full
wardrobe unless it is purchased in a svs-
tematic manner. c.
——

Ore little act of thoughtlessness that
has already made its appearance on the
athletic Feld is the commor failing of
every onlooker to occupy the benches
meant for the team. This is a common
occurrence everv vear, which should not
be tolerated. The benches are placed
there for the team’s use. and. the hleach-
ers for the onlookers. Let's see no more
of this.

All grace and prit to the forty-five
coming orators, and all) welcome and
honor to the queens of the Sunny South}
who are coming to crown the occasion !

A HINDRANCE,

There is in all-too frequent tendencs
to shuffling and whispering in the audi
torium when the speaking is going on
every year. This thoughtlessness — is
often very distracting and disconcerting
to the timid speaker and annoying to
even the experienced one. or the sake
of the speakers and in consideration of
those around us, let us try to correct
this fault during the coming exercises.

More quiet, too, could be observed
outside the door during speeches.

—__
EDITORIAL RESOLUTION.

Resolved, ist: “UVhat the title “Alum-
nae Banquet” in’ last’ week's headlines
was a mistake in printing and not in
juduemene.

Resolved. 2nd: ‘Vhat the joke on the
Assistant: Editor in’ the last issue was
written in all good will, and that reci-
procity is in order.

AN

TILE DAVIDSON PUBLISHING COMPANY.

[TA few weeks ago Professor Fulton
gave as his weekly assignment. ins writ-
eing to his Freshman Enelish class the
composition of an editorial. “Mhe edi-
torials written by the Freshmen in this
exercise have been turned aver to The
Davinsonian Staff. ard the best af
them will be published from time to
time. The editorial below is the first
of this series. ]

There are three publications connect-
ed with Davidson College: a weekly
paper which is the communication of
commonplace issues—the statement of
the little thines which go to make up
our campus life; a monthly magazine.

and better-dressed way ;- and a vearly|

record of the most striking of all these;

better still, can there be a different ten-,

| WA

|

ormanized | -

NEW LIBRARY FICTION.

\

WAN I AD S. New Fiction: “Beating Back.” Jen-
nings; “Kent Knowles Quahang. Lin-

-coln; “Clanon,” Adams; ‘Silver Sand.
. ! Crockett: “Bambi,” Cooke: “Big “‘Prem-
RATES: laine,” Van Worst: “Little Eve Edgar-

One time. 5c. 2 line. The minimum 09.) Abbott; “Poet.” Nicholson; “Gid-

con's Band,” Cable: “Hon. Percival,”
charge is the price for twe lines Rice: “Witch,” MI. Johnston: “Patrol

of che Sun Dance “Trail,” Connor. Real
a . New Books on Muropgan War: “Rea
WAN TED— lo do your Kodak de- ‘Truth About Germany.” Sladen; “Fvi-
veloping and finishing. Johnson and
Hudson, 27 S. Wing Chambers.

,dence in the Case.’ Beck: “New Map
of Europe.” Gibbons; “Why We Are
; At War.” Oxford: “Modern Russia,”
air of Alexinsky; “Hapsburg = Monarchy,” °
N.C. Steed: “Germany and the Next War.”
‘Bernhardi: “Germany and England,”
'Cramb; “Present Hour.” Mackave ;”
“Japan to America,” Masaoka.

SEE
JOHN F. CALDWELL

FIRE INSURANCE

NTED—To half-sole that p
shoes. G. A. Martin, Davidson,

WANTED—To do vour house repair
work. C. B. Mooney, Phone 4o.

CUSHMAN STUDIO, Charlotte, N.
C. Kodak finishing. See A. R.:
Howland, 26 R.

BACK the Advertisers who are backing

us.

srosererosooooooooooooooooo ts 0000000000000

WHAT THE EQUITABLE OFFERS:
SECURITY

The policies issued by the Equitable Society are valuable --

«
b

1. Because they grant insurance that insures—protection that
protects;

2. Because each policy contains all the benefits and “options”
that can properly be combined in a single contract;

3. Because every policy is drawn to conform to the rigid

provisions of the Law.

THE EQUITABLE
LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY

W. J. RODDEY & CO.. Mgrs., Rock Bill, S. C. J. P. QUARLES, Mgr., Charlotte, N.C.

F90000000000060000000000000000000060000000006

0000000000 f05.

0000090000000000000000000.1. $-9000606000000000000000000.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

DAVIDSON, N. C.

Full Faculty : Thorough Instruction
WELL-EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

000000000"! Toeccecooooovooooooooooooe?
POCO OOOO 1-13 09000 0000000000000000000O of

LET US SHOE You

LADIES GENTLEMEN

ur Spring Line of La Florsheim Shoes are part
France Slippers consists of a well dressed man’s
of the latest cuts. makeup.

04000000 000000000000F

000900

It it's anything in GROCERIES, FRUITS and PRODUCE 3
IT WILL PAY YOU TO SEE
L. A. ELLIOTT Before You Buy

EVERYTHING NEW AND FRESH

Give Us A Trial And BE CONVINCED
