staff. And this is in part the purpose

©

The DAVIDSONIAN. March 24, 1915

The Davidsonian

Pablished every Wednesday of the College Year
by the Stadents of Davidsen College.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS

Heurs: 7:00 te 7:30 P. M.
F. W. Price.......... Editor-in-Chief
Jj. P. Williams. ....... Assistant Editor
P. D. Patrick....... Business Manager

J. H. Carson and L. G. Mdgerton,
Assistant Managers
STAFF:
J. H. Carson Norman Johnson
G. W. Gignilliat W. A. Mclflwaine
Revor‘rers’ STarF:
‘TY. D. Sparrow W. H. Neal
Latta Law IK. H. Hamilton
T. f. Mitchell R. H. Ratchford
P. B. Price DD. V. Hudson

The DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters of suggestios
end comment en all matters ef current interest.
Communications most be signed.

Entered as second class matter at the Postoffice,
Davidson, N.C.

Subscription, $

1 Per Year

EDITORIAL.
It has always been the custom for the
College Magazine to allot one issue each
year to the members ot the Sophomore
class in order that they may show what
literary ability they possess, and in a waty
give the societies a basis for the selection
of the Junior members of the Magazine

of The Davidsonian tn its present issue,
for it is from the present Freshman class
thar many of aur next year’s reporters
will come. But this is not our sole pur-
pose, Et has always been our destre to
make each student feel that “Phe David-
sonian belongs to him, that The David-
sonian is devoted to his interests and that
it is up to him to do everything in his
power to make it succeed. We have no
literary societies, no Senior class, no Y.
M. C. A., behind us. ‘The Davidsonian
depends for its success entirely upon the
support of the college and the town.
‘Thus we want the college to feel that
this publication belongs to no particular
organization, but to the college as a
whole, and that it is to be conducted
upon broad democratic principles, a pol

isy which gives every man in college +
chance to become a member of the stall
In pursuance of this policy we desire to
interest each incoming class in “The Das

idsonian as soon as possible in order that
it may take an active part in producing a
good newspaper. For these reasons we
have turned over the greater portion of
the articles for the present isstie to men-
bers of the Freshman class.

A LOVELY SNOW SCENE,

Ah, ‘twas a beautiful Saturday morn.
A cloak of ermine interspersed with bril-
lisnts had been cast over the landscape,
a lacy net of the softest floss was draped
in graceful festoons aver the shivering
elms, the gentle wind carried. in its
wake a fleccy shower. A sceneset purity
and beauty, a scene which should arouse
in each man’s breast a love for others.
How lovingly the little flakes _ nestled
against each other as they reached the
ground. “Peace, love, peace, love,” the
wind whispered to the downy little fel-
lows as thev fell. And now comes the
silvery tinkling. the melodious concat-
enation which awakens the student to a
beautiful day full of renewed hopes and
activities, full of love for his fellowman.
An interval and again those — chimes
send their silvery notes over the beauti-
ful scene. Suddenly blood — curdling
screams rend the air, wildly flying fig-
ures with heads bowed, and coat tails
flying, disturb the calm beauty and_quiet
of the scene. Following them are Sophs,
bloody Sophs, their faces inflamed with

STUDENT SELF-GOVERNMENT.

[A few weeks ago Professor Fulton
gave as his weekly assignment in writ-
ing to his Freshman English class the
composition of an editorial, Vhe  edi-
torjals written by the Freshmen in‘ this
exercise have -been turned over to “THe
Davipsontan Staff, and the best o
them will be published from time to
time. The editorial below is the third
of this series. |

Once of the greatest problems that
arise in American colleges of today ts
the question of government. ‘The stu-
dent. self-government or ‘honor’ sys-
tem has been tried and has proven, be-!
yond a doubt, to be the most successfil
incans of governing a body of young
men. ;

‘This system is composed of the stu-

cil, known as the student council, and
the officers of this council. Fach class
elects its Own representatives to the
council, and these being apportioned, ac
cording to the retative importance and
tanding of the classes.

The president of the student body,
being elected by members of that as
sembly, is virtually president and chair-
nan of-the student.council. “This com:

| poses the officers under this form of gov

ernment.

This form of government has preven
self beneficial ino a great many ways,:
though there are three benefits which
surpass the others ins importance.

Kirst comes.the relationship to our na
tion's govermnent.

Second, it makes the student honest
and conscientious.

Lastly, the student can be judged
better by his fellow students than by the
faculty.

The governments of our nation and
of our State are built upon the same
principles as that of the student govern-
tnent, having the chief executive officer
and lower officers elected by the pecple.
This familiarizes the student with the
problems of government and politics,
which he must deal with when he
reaches the age of manhood. Tn the ald
system the student) was contiriually
watched in’ instances where his honor
teas at stake, and he began to feel that
the real wrong was not in doting wrong,
hor in being canght. The honor system
has removed this wrong conception of
one's honor, and has made the student
more conscientious. Tn the davs when
the faculty comprised the only govern
‘ee hady, there were many evil) condi-
tions that existed which the faculty was
not in a nosition to know of and correct.
Under the new system where the stu-
dents are more familiar with conditions
that exist. and are in a better position
to iudge their fellow classmates.

Hence it would be better for new col-
leges to consider very seriously the hanor
system when they are planning their
form of government,

COACH COOK TO
BE MARRIED SOON.

Invitations have been received by sev-
eral students here to the marriage of W.
T. Cook (Coach), who was in charge
of our athletics last vear. Mr. Cook is
to be married to Miss Mary Jeannette
Kenyon, of Hartford, Conn., on March
27. The Davidsonian and the student
hody as a whole extend hearty congratu-
lations to the hapov couple.

MARRIAGE OF W. P. PARKER.

A letter has recently been received
from W. P. Parker, Davidson's repre-
sentative in the foreign field, telling of
his marriage to Miss Harriet D. Fitch.
at Seoul, Korea, Mrs. Parker is teach-
ing in the Girl's School at Pyengyang.
Korea, besides assisting in the Sunday
school there. We offer the bridegroom
our heartiest congratulations.

Rev. Dr. E. R. Leyburn, of the First

passion, their arms full of death-dealing| Presbyterian church, of Durham, will

missles, made (with shame we admit it) |/deliver the Baccalaureate
of that pure element which should sym-|Commencement in

bolize calm and love. Everywher: the
Freshman runs and the Soph pursues.
Peace there is none. War in on.

Sermon at

May.

Miss Helen L. Wilson, of Sherrill’s
Ford, is visiting Miss Johnsie Shelton.

Ir

WAN TED—To do vour house repair |

dent body at large, the governing coun- [CUSHMAN STUDIO. Charlotte,

FOR THAT “CONKLIN” Self-fill-

CIVIC LEAGUE. PLANS.

The Civic League is at present inter-
ested in fitting out their new hall over
the drug store. Committees have been
named to furnish the room. The ladies
of the League have offered the use or
the hall to the Men's Club that was
‘ormed recently. ‘The first meeting of
this club will be held on Tuesday even-.
ing. at which an address will be given
by Dr. Dennis, of Charlotte.

WANT ADS.

RATES:

One time. 5c. ‘a line. The minimum
charge is the price fer twe lines |

WANTED—To do your Kodak de-
veloping and finishing. Johnson and

Hudson, 27 S. Wing Chambers.
On Friday, March 26, the local

WANTED—To half-sole that pair of ig) . . wo
: . 7 'High School will debate with Dixie on
shoes. G. A. Martin, Davidson, N. C. ithe subject. “Resolved. That the United

States should adopt the policy of subs
dizing its Merchant Marine engaged
in foreign trade.” All friends of
‘Ithe school are invited to come out and
N. ‘hear this discussion. The hour and
+ place will he announced through a notice
posted in the Post Office.

HIGH SCHOOL DEBATE.

work. C. B. Mooney, Phone 4o.

Kodak finishing.
Howland, 26 R.

See A.

, t . Dr. W. J. Martin spent a few days
ing Fountain Pen see H. R. Dish-/in Atlanta last week attending a com-
ough, 19 Rumple. mittee meeting of the Laymen.

Grosooooooooooooooooooooooo i: 0000000000000000000000000

: THE EQUITABLE LIFE

|

f-9 90000 0006000000000000000-1- -1-0000006000000000060000000>).

$ DAVIDSON COLLEGE

DAVIDSON, N. C.

During its 55 years’ history has been tested
by panics¢ wars, fires, and inquisitions, any
of which would have ruined a weak, poorly
managed company. Its existance today is
its strongest recommendation. It stands for
SERVICE

STRENGTH SECURITY

THE EQUITABLE
LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
W. J. RODDEY & CO., Mgrs., Rock Hill, S.C. J. P. QUARLES, Mgr., Charlotte, N.C.

0000000000060 .1.-1. 6000000000

!

°
e

Full Faculty : Thorough Instruction

WELL-EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

Fooecoooooooooooooooosoooo tl
er +

LET US SHOE YOU

LADIES GENTLEMEN

Our Spring Line of La || Florsheim Shoes are part
France Slippers consists of a well dressed man’s
of the.latest cuts. makeup.

BROWN-KNOX MERCANTILE COMPANY

0000000006000000

+

J $000000000090000000000000 Ti 0000000000000000000000000
When HUNGRY,--- Remember

We always have the very best line of

Fancy Groceries, Fruits and Candy
Always Fresh Always the best
Give Us A Trial And BE CONVINCED

L. A. ELLIOTT : ‘Next doorto White Drug Co.
Je OOOOOOO0O0O0000000 0006000 501 OO 00000000000000000000000.5,
