6 The DAVIDSONIAN. May 5, 1915

++

+ e.
$ The Modern Drug Store ;
With a complete line of Stationery, Candies, Toilet Articles and |

CAMPUSISMS.

Mr. and Mrs. Simpson, of Woodruff,
3. C., were on the Hill for a short time
ast Tuesday. They motored up from
charlotte with a party of friends.

Oscar J. Thies has beer called huime
unexpectedly on account of illness in
the family.

COMPLETE PLANS ARRANGED

(Continued from page 1)

exhibit by a team of ten Freshmen, show
iog the benefit of the training received
io the compulsory gymnasium classes
Theis work is truly remarkable for one
Practice, and it proves the succes

. oF thie addition to the curriculum.
~ unusual part of the program
@ the Senior Class Exercises. ‘This is
be made much more impressive and
ddaborere than ever before, and is te
daclude the planting of the ivy, in ac
cordance with an old English custom:
the prenentation of the class gift: and
the presentation of the class book. These
Beniors bope to introduce these last two
ws new customs at Davidson; especially
the last. which is to be made as distinc-
tive of Davidson as the presentation of
the bow! and spoon is of Pennsylvania.

or the daisy chain of Vassar.

For the first time in the seventy -cight
years of Davidson history, she is to wit-
nese an academic procession, both the
Paculty and Senior class to wear caps
and gowns. This is an almost universal
custom, and one which will be welcomed
bere. The procession is to start from
the Library. and march to the com-
gmenoement hall, where the degrees will
be awarded.

As a culminating event comes the
ainch-looked-forward-to Senior — stunt.
This has abways been one of the most
enjoyable affairs of the season, and the
graduating classes of the last few years
have made it extremely Jaughable. The

Uptesent Senior class is practicing hard.
and they promise a very agreeable sur-
price.

The class of 1915 is making every ef-
fort to olace this Commencement ahead
of ali others in interest and pleasure, and
thev bid fair to make it one to be long
remembered.

One of the changes in this vear’s

mencement program will be a: ioint
meeting of the two Titerary societies in
Shearer Hall on Mondav nivht. Mav
24. Instead of the usual meetings ir
each snciety hall an address will be de-
livered bv a distineuished alumnus, thue
giving both societies and all visitors a
chance to hear the address.

The committee was fortunate enough
to secure Prof. S. H. Edmunds. of Sum-
ter, S.C., an alumnus of the Eumenean

Fountain Pens. Drink at our store—Sanitary Fountain

White Drug Company, Tacorporated

Prescriptions A Specialty The Rexall Store
i a ‘
+} a

WHAT! |

@ G

A new addition has been made to
campus life in the shape of a beautiful
bicycle, owned and operated by W. E
Williams. The principal feature of this
machine is the “Honk. ,

® ri

One of the boys, after attending a
Lyceum that seemed to him to be in-
ferior to advertisement, was heard re-
cently to remark: “It was all ‘Ly’ and

no ‘ceum.’"

WE SAY WE DO, WE DO Do!
Make Your Old Suit As Good As New
Agents for Dry Cleaning and Dyeing
Davidson Pressing Club

Alexander & Maybeay, Preps.

A new “Brush” sweeps clean. Mr.
Wooten reports an empty pocketbook.

Last Friday the Davidson Hich
School team journeyed to Taylorsville
to play the High School there. The
game resulted in a defeat for D. H. S.
by a score of z to

“Butch” McKay ('17) has gone to
Rock Hill, S. C., to be present at the
South Carolina Intercollegiate Oratori-
cal Contest. .

|
000 ceo?

2 e

“Bob” Critz (’17) left Saturday to
spend a few days in Winston-Salem.

$ Stationery, Feuntain Pens, ¢
Cigars and Drinks
+}

The ene best place to stop
while in Charlotte.

EUROPEAN PLAN
CAFE IN CONNECTION

Prescriptions Carefully Compounded

Davidson Drug Co.

“Chink” Wilkinsun. during a state
of hectic exuberance caused by passing
a Math review, was overseen spending
fifteen cents in Mr. Scofield’s establish-
ment Wednesday morning.

e ® e

It is rumored that P. D. Patrick,
while in a condition of semi-coma (so he
alleges) correctly answered a quiz on
Biology. The Professor consequently
detained. him after class and warned him

®
Jetton’s
that a few marks would absolutely ruin

}
Hotel =| Mooe you See etter”

Teoeeeeoees

of

his otherwise noteworthy record. Mr. 15 headquarters
Patrick wishes his friends to know that for all

he immediately placed upon the hint and

+hat the above-mentioned distressing in-
cident has not reoccurred.
e * «

That famous old song “Where is my

wandering Bed tonight?” was sung he-

t FA, deliver, this address. dre fore an anoreciative audience by “Os-
esor Edmunds, who is a distinguished |. aim White on the night of the Soph

educator of South Carolina, has had..to Feed
refuse invitations to deliver an address :
at two former Davidson Commence-

Athletic News

Drop in and hear

the latest dope.
Enact duplicates of bate used H ‘
Leages players $1:00 cach. "Oahe” Gromginent Bie
Spalding “Featherweight Base Ball Shoes
The lightest shoes ever made for ball playing usc.
97.00 per pair. Other shoes from $7.00 30.
The “Just Right” Infielder’s Glee
Broheo-in model with the tarnuus KING Par.
ENT FELT PADDING. $5.00 exh. O1 in-
Gabdese' gloves from 85,00 ww Be - ther in

Loaf not. asinging songs in the

eat moonlight, for on the morrow Zero will
While ek ‘ SUPPLIES and

STATIONERY
is complete and up to
the minute.

at Davidson, Professor Vd-
munds had the unique distinction of at- [be thy reward.
tending every college exercise for the ° ‘
whole four years of his college work
without a single tardy or absence.

Play with equipment beasing the Spalding Trade
Mash—the hind the "Big Lesgeers” wees

Qatalogue free on request.

A.G. Spalding & Bros.
L. A. MULLEN, Agent

Ne. 2 Watts

The fresh air fiends who slumber on
the campus, frequently have their dreams

disturbed.

* o ry
Prof—“Mr. H—, where do lights
go when they go out?”
Mr. H—‘“T don’t. know, doctor, it's
ton dark to see.”
€

TO PLAY SOUTH CAROLINA.

Arrangements have been completed
for a foot ball game with the Univer-
sity of South Carolina for next Fall.
the exact date and place to be announced
later.

For years Davidson and South Caro-
lina have been meeting on the gridiron
unnually, and supporters of both col-
leges will undoubtedly welcome — the

Our stock of
TOBACCO, CANDY.

Baseball
De you play the game? If co, we can be of aid co
ta the wa wipe fi edi
zy ft oof pecan cpinnrat drigod
equivermente. .
Spalding “Players” Avtegraph Bats
Jetton Drug Co. |
+

F00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000

eo a

LOST—On the night of the Soph
Feed, three bed springs, two chairs. one
temper, and much sulphurous air. Find-
er please return to 2 Ga. or 7 Watts.

ad ye a

+

AMERICAN ; Give your
RICAN TRUST © Shee Repair Work

000eee%

t next Fall wi cen. Freshman—"Doctor, did they have . A.

tion. thar next Fall will be no excep automobiles in the time of Xenophon?” Capital and Derldce Cone On
This adds another game to Davidson’: Prof— “Well, | hardly think so, Mr. U di ided Profits $625,600.00 ee

already heavy, schedule, but the. “old.|~iveatansns "Well, mn hook states|$ m. eee

time pep” and the efficient coaching of shmnan— ym Hook states

Coach Fetzer is sure to make the coming that Xenophon cr ossed the river Agis by SH U-FIXERY $

PAHS ‘ a.

REASON B SUCCESS. ' w * . COMMERCIAL BANKING CHARLOTTE, N. C. 3
. sar teen ee wast Wednesday about forty David- F . Soocoooooooooooooooooooos

COACH FETZER TO son men went dawn to Charlotte to Accounts received subject to check. ¢ | 4 £

Every facility offered customers
consistent with safe business
“methods

RETURN NEXT YEAR [attend the Chapman-Alexander meet-

ings, which are now in progress. A
special train was provided for the
Statesville. Mooresville and Davidson
delegations, a special invitation having
been given to the Davidson students.

At a student body meeting in Shearet
Saturday afternoon, Coac

Fetzer announced that he would return
to Davidson next year, The prolonged
applause that greeted this announcement|This train left Davidson at 1:30 p. m.
demonstrated the high esteem in whichjand returned at 11:30 p. m., thus en-
he is held by the students, and all friends abling those who went to attend both
of the college will doubtless be equally|the afternoon and evening services. All

When in Chariette, it's the

New
Hotel Central

_ SAVINGS DEPARTMENT

Four per cent interest, payable quar-
terly, allowed on savings deposits

TIME CERTIFICATES

$$0000000000000000000000
Foccceooooooooooooooet

pleased to learn of his return. the Davidson men who went were deep-|@ Four per ceat Certificates of Deposit ;

b Coach Betzer also announced that helly impressed both by the wonderful issued in exchange for funds that UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT
as several plans on foot for next year|spirit and influence of Dr.. . are to remain for three months

of which, at that time, he was not at and the inspiring Ong service ted by Mr, oF more Extensive Improvements
liberty to speak. Alexander. : O000000000000000000000 000.3. |. OOCCCOCOOCCOOCCCCCCSCCCCS
