The DAVIDSONIAN

Vol. 3.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON. N. C.. SEPTEMBER 15. 1915.

No. 1.

Foot Ball Prospects
Are Encouraging

Old Men Return--Good Material
Among New Men.

About fifty men responded to Coach
Fetzer’s call for foot ball practice Thurs-
day afternoon, September 2. Among
these are six old men, namely: White,
Black, Laird, Keesler, Steve Walker
and Bob Walker. The Fresh material
looks very encouraging ; among them are
represented some of the best preparatory
and high schools both in and out of the
state. The team sustains a loss in the
failure of McKinnon to return.

The practice so far has been very light
on account of the hot weather. but
scrimmage will start immediately and
then a better line can be gotten an the
men.

Coaches Fetzer and Klutz have been
aided the last few days by Graham, of
Davidson and later of Washington and
Lee, and by Johnson, of Virginia.
idson should consider herself fortunate
in the addition of Mr. DeWitt Klutz
to her coaching staff. Mr. Klutz while
at Davidson was an All-South Atlantic
foot ball man and a four year base ball
man. Lately he has been an assistant
coach at the University. This gives
Davidson two All-South Atlantic men,
as coaches.

LOCAL HAPPENINGS OF THE
WEEK.

The College provided a sewerage svs- |

tem for all the houses on Concord road
this summer extending from the Infirm-
ary to the end of the paved section.

* ~ *

Prof. J. B. Wheary. ('92), of the
University of Texas. visited relatives
here early in September. Dr. Whearv
is Professor of English in the Texas in-
stitution.

- ce 1.

Dr. T. L. Lingle has been supplying
in the First church of Mooresville since
July for both services. and will continue
to do so until a regular pastor is called.
. * - *

The Misses Frances and Catherine
Worth have gone to St. Louis. where
they will spend the winter with their
uncle, Captain Wiliams, of the United
States Army.

* * *

Last Thursday Dr. Lingle delivered
an historical address at the ‘“Home-Com-
ing” at Bethel church on “Early Presby-
terianism in North Carolina.”

* * .

Miss Cora Sloan spent last Fridav in
Davidson with her uncle. Dr. T. L. Lin-
gle. She will spend the year in States-
ville teaching in the Public schools.

* * *

Miss Josie Woods, sister of “Chink”
Woods. spent the opening week of co'-
lege with Mrs. Robson.

* 2 >

Miss Susie Brady and Miss Camp-
bell will return to the State Normal at
Greensboro this week. Miss Mary
Parks Grey will also enter that institu:
tion this Fall.

* - e

Mrs. Dupuy. who spent the summer in
Davidson, has gone to spend the w'nter
in Richmond with her daughter, Mrs.
W. L. Lingle.

Dav-!

College Year Opens With Bright

Prospects for Splendid Session

With Largest Attendance on Record Term Began Thursday Morning---

All Branches of College Activities Start Work.

With the largest enrollment on rec-
ord, Davidson opened for the Fall term
Thursday, September 2. For several
days the students, old and new, had been
arriving, and the same spirit of good
fellowship that has always characterized
a Davidson student body was manifest
in the hearty handshake and_ friendly
grectings.

As usual the new men were conducted
to Phi. Hall, where refreshments were
served by the Y. M. C. A.. and from
there shown to the Purser’s office, where
they were given their rooms.

Y. M. C. A. MEETING

As a means of conveying information
to the new men concerning the various
college activities, the. Y. M. C. A. meet-
ing. held on Monday night, September
6, was a success. “The meeting was call-
ed to order and presided over by W. G.
Somerville, president of the local Y. M.
C. A.

In a clear, straightforward manner
F. H. Smith presented to the new men
the opportunities which the two Literary
Societies, the Philanthropic and the Fiu-
menean, offer, reminding them that it is
not men with ideas and opinions alone,
but men who can give verbal expression
to those ideas and opinions before an as-
sembly of their fellalvmen that soon
climb.to positions of leadership.

In a brief way T. J. Mitchell out-
lined the scope of the four college pib-
lications—"“The Davidsontan”’ “The
Davidson College Magazine,” “The Y.
M. C. A. Handbook” and the college.
Annual, known as “Quips and Cranks,”
and: urged the Freshmen to give their
aid and hearty support to all of them.

W. G. Morrison, the next speaker.
in dealing with Davidson athletics, ex-
plained the often-heard term “Davidson
Pep.” saving that all new men should
fully understand and live up to all that
that term implied, and reminding them
that on more than one occasion “David-
son Pep” had brought victory out of de-
feat on the athletic field,

The Y. M. C. A. as a religious force
in the student life was forcibly present-
ed hy J. G. Patton. He gave three
reasons why every voung man should
join the Y. M. C. A: (1) Te is a big
organization; (2) It stands for all that
is true and right in the student life, and
(3) Fe develops the religious side of a
young man’s life.

FRESH RECEPTION

Immediately after this meeting a re-
ception to the Freshmen was held in the
parlors of the Library, and proved a
very enjovable occasion to all who at-
tended. Miss Shaw, with the help of
some of the students, had the Library
very tastefully decorated with ever-
greens and flowers, and under the man-
agement of F. H. Smith ('16) every-
thing was nicely arranged for the event.

Among those assisting in receiving the
guests were Professor and Mrs. A. Cur-
rie. Dr. and Mrs. W. J. Martin. Dr.
and Mrs. 7. M. McConnell, Dr. and
Mrs. J. W. McConnell, Dr. and Mrs.
T. M. Douglas, Dr. and Mrs. Richards.
Drs. Arbuckle. J. L. Douglas, Grey,
Harding, and Wood.

Many out-of-town guests were pres
ent, including Miss Margaret Cowles,

Miss Mildred Finlayson. Miss Julia
Baxter Scott, Miss Cornelia) Dowd,
Miss Catherine Scales, Miss Annie

Dewey Chambers, Miss Hilda Convers,
Miss Minnie Conyers, Miss
Parker, Miss Mary Stewart Alexander,
Miss Lucille’ Mason, Miss Louise Mur-
phy, Miss Mattie Walker, Miss Cor-
inne Gibbon. Miss Anne “Faliaferro.
Miss May York Johnson, of Charlotte;
Miss Louise Wiley, of Lancaster, 5. C.:
Miss Marjorie Dance, of ‘Vocena, Ga. ;
Miss Sara Wooten, of Davidson, N. C.;
Mr. ‘Vow ‘laliaferro and Mr. Trwin
Henderson, Dr. Oren’ Moore, of Char
lotte, and Mr. John Wylie, of an.
caster, $8. C.
MEMBERSHIP RALLY

On last Thursday evening the an
nual Y. ML. C. A. membership rally was
held in Shearer Hall, and was well at
tended. The speaker of. the evening.
Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, made a strong ap
peal to the men to get into the fight for
a bigger and better, Davidson, and. for
the moral uplift of the campus. He
pointed out Yo Mi. C. A. membership
as an ideal way in which to accomplish
this work, and urged active participation
in all the branches of its activities.

Announcement was made of-the floor
praver mectings to be held on each Aoor
of each dormitory, every night at ro
o'clack, as a preparatory series of serv
ices to the Fall evangelistic campaign.
11 is.possible that Dr. Chapman and My.
Alexander will be secured for this cam
paign, the meeting to last for several
days as usual, about the middle of Oc
toher.

An invitation was given to all men
who desired work in the mission Sunday
schools, night schools, bovs’ club, etc., and
aver forty men voluntecred for the work.
The chairman of that committee will be
glad to supply work to all who desire it.
» The State Conference of the College
Associations, to be held at Guilford Col
lege, September 23-26, was also an
nounced, and there is a good prospect for
a large and enthusiastic delegation from
Davidson. The only expense is to be
railroad fare, and the local association
will partially meet that item, so that no
man need be deprived of the benefits of
the conference because of finances. Dav-
ison always takes the lead in every phase
of the conference, and this year is to be
no exception.

As a result of the invitation to join
the Y. M.C. A., given both in the rally.
and in a room-to-rnom canvass, over
150 members have heen reported. and
the list is still growing. It is hoped that
200 or more may he signed up by next
week,

NEW Y. M. C. A. HANDBOOK.

The 1915-16 edition of the Y. M. C.
A. Handbook will be on the campus in a
few days. The material was sent to
press last Monday and the books will
be here in ten days from that date. The
manager states that the book will be up
to the usual standard.

Heten’

\Literary Societies Hold

Initiatory Meetings

Good Work Promised for the Year
by Large Enroliment.

The two literary societies held their
first meeting of the year Saturday night
and received new members. From the
number of those who joined cach society -
it may be judged that the coming. year
will be a very successtul one. After the
ceremonies of the initiation the new nien
were given achance to show their ability
along lines. of oratory, and from the re-
sulting: speeches one may judge — that
there are some very good speakers in the
new class.

Those who joined the Philanthropic
Society were K.P. Coachman, K.P.
Childs, Jr. D. T. MicKeithen, C. W.
Foreman, W. ‘TP. Dunlap. Clewell
Howell, W. ML Currie, J. K. Foster,
Job. Currie, WLC. Neel, W. ML Mor-
gan, R. W. Robinson, C. We Worth,
Jn. Co AL McArthur, FL oP. Hall, Jr.
R. oI. MeClure. fh. WW. Faires, Ke F.
Mounteastle, 1. R. Minocks, R. B.
Peters, OJ P. Hart. G. W. King, Robt.
Kornegay, R. D. Hall, Bailey Patrick,
R. OR. Homer, J. W. Morris, W. C.
Berryhill, S. WW. Robinson, WW. C,
Worth, W. ML Price, |. K. Fleming, Q.
C. Stone, J. W. McAlister.

‘Thase joining the (umenean were C.
FP. Allen, W. J. Boswell, LC. Brand,
TS. Brown, FB. Burns, R. BR. Clark,
George Corbett, RoW. Cousar, W. He:
Cullum, R. B. Cunningham, D. S. Epps,
J. FB. George, S. Me Gilbert, b. P.
Good, W. A. Hyll, C. M. Harrington,
W. B. Harwood, W. H. Lawrence, C.
J. Mathews, 8. T. MeCloy, D. M. Or-
pain, Chas. Robeson, Gea. Robeson. A.
R. Smith, B.A. Solomans, J. F. White,
EK. A. Woods, R. A. Horcom.

ORCHESTRA AND GLEE CLUR
PLANS BEING MADE

‘The Orchestra and Glee Club have a
very promising year before them, the
prospects being very bright.

The Orchestra has been practising for
some time, and is progressing rapidly. ©
The new material that has gone out for
trial has shown up very well. A twelve
piece orchestra is expected this year, and
it bids fair to be one of the best the col-
lege has had in some years. “Vhe orches-
tra is under the leadership of F. H.
Baker (17).

The Glee Club put in its first call
Monday morning for new members, and
the material that came out looks good.
and with the old members that are back
it looks like they will’ have one of the
best Glee clubs that has ever been on
the Hill. ‘The Glee Club has as its lead-
er this year “Jamie” Fowle (718).

The Orchestra and Glee Club are
planning to take a long trip in the spring
as is their usual custom, hesides giving
concerts on the Hill at Junior and Senior
Speakings. They are also planning sev-
eral other concerts on the Hill which
will be of interest to everybody, but they
are not able to give out any definite in-
formation regarding these at present.
This is one of the best organizations on
the Hill and should be supported by ..
everyone, and all those who can play any
orchestral instrument are expected to go
out for trial. If there are any who have
not gone out and wish to, the leaders will
he glad to give them a trial.
