i)

The DAVIDSONIAN, December 1, 1915

The Davidsonian
Poblished every Wednesday of the College Yea
by the Students of Davidson College.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS
Hours: 7:00 to 7:30 P. M.

EprrortaL Boarp

J. P. Williams... .....Editor-in-Chic;
T. J. Mitchell...... Managing Editor
P. B. Price........ Assignment Edita:
THE STAFF .
T. D. Sparrow Wn. Holliste
R. H. Ratchford W. L. Law, Jr
Reporters
W. C. Cummings J. A. Thames
J. R. Woods W. A. Dumas
J. B. Woods L. A. Crawford
MANAGEMENT
J. H. Carson....... Business Manager
W. H. Neal

. .. Assistant Managers.
J. C. Paisley

THe Davinosonian will be glad to
print: all signed communications pertain-
ing to matters of interest.

Eatered as second-class matter at the Pestoffice,
Devideon, N. C.

Subscription, $1 Per Year

EDITORIAL.

ne

THE SEASON.

It was a good finish to a good season.
When the team came off the field last
‘Thursday, after a clearcut victory over
Wake Forest, there was the feeling in
the minds of all the students, alumni
and friends of the institution, that the
record for the foot ball season was one
to be proud of and that the men had
played well and deserved all praise.

This has been one of the hardest
schedules, if not the hardest, that David-
son has ever played. It would casily
have been possible to win more games
by playing smaller colleges—colleges
more nearly the size of Davidson, but
not one of the colleges which have been
played this year but have had more stu-
dents than Davidson—and yet we have
won four of the eight games played, one
has been tied and one was cancelled.
This record shows that the policy which
has been, pursued has been a wise one
and it is well to play these targer games
even though the scores he close and there
is not always a victory for Davidson.

‘The season has contained more than
the playing of games—for it has been
necessary to take a stand for a principle
in the matter of legitimate athletics, even
with the danger of being misunderstood
for a time. Fortunately, later develop-
ments have fully justified the position
taken by Davidson and there is a wide-
spread feeling of commendation for the
‘cancellation of the game with the Uni-
versity of South Carolina. It was an
incident which was regretted by all, but
by no one more than by Davidson.

We wish that we could carry in our
columns this week the picture of the
men who have given everything they
have to make Davidson’s team “The
Best Coached Team in the South.” It
is these men, Coaches Fetzer and Kluttz.
who have not only built up one of the
best teams that Davidson has ever had,
but their work has gone deeper, and can-
not he counted only in the record that
the team has made. Being true David-
son Alvnini, they have succeeded in in-
numerable ways in strengthening the
spirit of clean athletics and the whole-
some resnect of one man for another.
The result has been a team of real men.
in every sense of the word, and the train-
ing these plavers have received will not
stop with the last game, but will be
greater each day as they mfx and min-
gle more with the other students and

nake plain that sense of “fair play” and
t “square deal” which has been with
hem daily, and which if carrted into all
f our affairs on the campus, will make
hem easy to solve.

“HE RED AND BLACK IN
THE EYES OF ‘THE PRESS

"The foot ball season just passed found
he Red and Black up to their usual
tandard and was not only a_ success

‘rom the standpoint of games won, but
uso from the showing the team made on
ill occasions. ‘The press and foot ball
‘ritics were unanimous in their praises,
ind Coaches Fetzer and Kluttz are to
Xe congratulated for producing such an
“ficient machine. Averaging only 156
nounds, it was outweighed in every con-
test, yet succeeded in finishing the season
with a total of 156 points to their op-
ponents’ 102. From the press it won
only praises.

“One of the most sensational runs
ever seen on the local gridiron (Clem-
son College) was pulled here by Keesler
when he received the ball on his own
twenty-yard line from a kick-off and ran
through the entire Clemson team, being
downed on the two-yard line.”’—Char-
lotte News.

“Davidson lived up to the impression
that they had created of having a fast
and well developed team. Although
outweighed many pounds to the man,
they fought the heavier Jacket eleven
gamely, only losing out in the second
half when their strength began to ebb.”
—Reynolds.

“The Davidson bunch impressed
every one with their clean and sports-
manlike manner of playing, the men do-
ing the cleanest tackling seen on Grant
field in many seasons. Here's hoping
that their relations with Tech will con-
tinue in the future.”—Atlanta Journal.

“Georgia Tech defeated Davidson
College at Grant field yesterday after-
noon but only after the spunky little
eleven from North Carolina had held
the Jackets scoreless for one-half and
thrown the cold fear in 500 loyal rooters
that the mix-up was going to end with
the gold and white at the raw end of
the heef-steak. ... A fumbled punt,
the quickness of the Davidson ends and
1 red-shirted man was over the line for
a touchdown, the half ending Davidson
7, Tech 0.°—Ward Green.

“The boys from Carolina put up the
brand of foot ball which makes college
foot hall so blame genuine. Bill Fetzer
and DeWitt Kluttz coached Dayidson.
and from what the Lord, and nobody
else sent them, they have whipped into
shape one of the best little clevens in the
South. They were marvellously fast.
the ends getting down under punts like
flashes, the line charging hard and the
tackles as neat and unswerving as a billy
voat's smash. They played clean ball

during the whole game.”—The Atlanta

Constitution.

“Black broke through the interference
and nailed him with a beautiful tackle.”

“When I wrote in advance (in one of
the Atlanta papers) that Davidson had
a real team, IT meant what I said; but
that they had the bunch of cleverly train-
ed, extremely speedy and fighting wild
-ats that they exhibited yesteday, I had
no idea. The fact is they outplayed the
Tackets at practically every point of the
vame for one whole half. Their line
charged faster than Tech’s. their backs
shunged harder, they made less mistakes,
they dumped better under the tacklers
and their tackline was keener, surer.
sharner and deadlier. Their play was a
delight to everv beholder except the
most ardent Tech supporters, and even
thev cordially admitted the prowess and
skill of the invaders. For mvself, I now
fully understand why Washington and
Lee was able only to get awav with only
+ touchdowns and why it was that
Clemson was onlv luckv enough to get
away with a 6-6 tie.’—Heisman.

ROY MOOSE|SOUTHERN
Official Photographer R AILW AY

for
Premuer Carrier of
ob eo a9
Quips & Cranks” the South
See

Special Attention Given
W. G. MORRISON to Athletic Trips

SPECIALS SPECIALS SPECIALS

Twelve second-hand Upright Pianos offered at greatly reduced prices.

Makes included are:
Stieff, Kranich & Bach, Mason & Hamlin, Barnes & Smith,
Lombard, Howards, Ivers & Ponds,

Haynes Bros.,
Kohler & Campbells, Crown, Wing & Sons, and others.

The prices range from $150.00 up

and the terms are just what you want. Come in at once and
sec these pianos—you will not be urged to buy.

219 S. Tryon St. STIEFF

The Sanitary Barber Shop Uses) STUDENTS:
For Engraved Cards and

Clean Towels, Sharp Razors most resenable prices on

BEST ATTENTION QUALITY PRINTING

get quotations from
We will appreciate your business.

sreciaL invitation To au. |Brady Printing Company
. STATESVILLE, N. C.
E. R. JENKS, Proprietor) v. a. MULLEN. Agent

Charlotte, N. C.
Established 1842

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Daivdson, North Carolina
: THOROUGH COURSES =:
Well Equipped Laboratories

THE LATEST STYLES IN

SCHLOSS CLOTHES
CAN BE SEEN AT
Brown-Knox Mercantile Company

WHY!

Wear soiled and wrinkled clothes when Alexander will keep them
Looking New---6 Suits for $1.00

If you are sof a member see our representatives, purchase a ticket
at once and tall in line. All tickets must be endorsed.

THE DAVIDSON PRESSING CLUB

R. L. ALEXANDER, Proprietor

SWEATERS

BIG, WARM, COZY Good Looking Roll Collars

ATHLETIC SWEATER COATS
Full Stock Just Received

The Commissary No. 2 Watts

