The DAV:DSONIAN

Vol. HI.

Davidson College
Day Observed

President Currell, of University of
South Carolina, the Speaker.

Yesterday. November 2, Davidson
College Day was observed. Classes
were suspended at 11 o'clock and chapel
services suspended till 11:30. Dr. W.
S. Currell. the president of the Uni-
versity of South Carolina, was the speak-
er for this year.

After the regular exercises Dr. Currell
spoke on ‘Education and the Higher
Life.” First he clearly defined educa-
tion, showing, that it was really merely a
filling process in comparison with the
higher. life. The higher life comprises
the real things of life. whereas education
is merely a means. “Though it is a means.
the best possible use must be made of it.
but the eves must be ever upon:the higher
life. He ended by laying down clearly
and forcibly the principle that success in
the higher life comes only through the
observation of Christ’s principles and
doctrines.

The speech was excellent and very ap-
plicable to students and student life.

Dr. Currell was Professor of English.
Psychology and Political Economy at
Davidson from 1886 to 1895, going aft-
erwards to Washington and Lee. In
1913 he was called to the presidency of
the University of South Carolina.

Tuesday night a reception was tender-
ed to Dr. Currell by Dr. and Mrs. Mar-
tin. Members of the faculty and their
wives were invited. A splendid two
course dinner was served, and the even-
ing’s entertainment proved a very en-
joyable one.

EU. SOCIETY ADOPTS ;
NEW CONSTITUTION

At a meeting of the Eumenean Society
last Monday morning, the second term
officers were installed, and a new consti-
tution adopted, involving radical changes
in the society routine. Hereafter Fresh-
men will not be admitted to the society
until the beginning of the spring term.
Until that time, candidates for admission
to the society will enter the “Eumenean
Freshman Society.” presided over by the
regular society officers, and will only be
eligible for membership on recommenda-
tion of those officers, sitting as a board
of critics. The dues, which will be pure-
ly nominal, will go to the purchase of an
“Improvement medal,” to be awarded to
the Freshman making the greatest prog-
ress during membership in this society.

It was also decided to turn the regular
society at its Saturday night meetings in-
to a legislative body; topics of current
interest to be discussed from the floor.
This will probably alternate with the
regular debates.

The records of the society have been
taken to the library, where those of his-
torical interest, including those written
bv Woodrow Wilson, will soon be
placed on exhibition. It‘ is planned to
have them remain there permanently in
glass cases made especially for them.

A regulation has been passed by the
executive committee of the Athletic As-
sociation requiring all men who play ten-
nis to wear long trousers and a regula-
tion shirt instead of the gymnasium and
track suits that have been in vogue.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON. N. C., NOVEMBER 3, 1915.
Contest With Game

WOODROW WILSON GETS DEDICATION
OF 1916 “QUIPS AND CRANKS”

THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON

My dear Mr. Mullen:

Octobe: 25, 1915

I nave your kind letter of October

twenty-first and in reply would say that it

would give me real pleasure to have you dedi-

cate the 1916 volume

of Quips and Cranks to

me. I feel very much. gratified that you should

have thought of me in this way, for I look back

with the greatest pleasure to my year at David-

gon.

Under another cover I am sending you

an autographed photograph of myself as you re-

quest.

Cordially and sincerely yours,

a,

Mr. L. A. Mullen, Editor,

Quips and Cranks,
Davidson College

With the information that the editors
of “Quips and Cranks” are putting forth
their best efforts to_produce a splendid
annual in 1916 comes the announcement
that it will be dedicated to President Wil-
son. In making this dedication there was
at first some hesitancy on the part of the
staff due to the thought that Mr. Wilson
might feel that it would be making capi-
tal of the fact that he had once attended
Davidson. However, a letter was ad-
dressed to the President asking his con-
sent to the dedication, and also for an
autographed photograph of himself for

use in the annual. His reply, which ap
pears above, set at rest all doubts as to
his attitude in the matter.

In the past it has been the unalter
able policy of the staff to keep the matter
of dedication a secret until the appear-
ance of the annual in the spring. It has
been decided this year to make ay excep:
tion to this rule in light of the fact that
there will be a larger demand for this
volume, and as the management -has to
order all annuals five months. in advance,
it was deemed expedient to make this an
nouncement at this time,

Juniors Defeat Fresh
In Class Basket Bali

Carolina Secretary
Speaks to Y. M.C. A.

Game Not As Hefly Contested As| Mr. T. C. Bouseball Gives Fine Ad-

the Former One.

The Juniors defeated the Freshmen
for the second time in a rather one-sided
affair Monday morning, by running up a
score of 21 to the Freshmen's 13. The
game was not as fast as some of the oth-
ers which have been staged during the
series, neither team being able to make
their shots good, although a iarge num-
ber of attempts were made.

Murray, of the Juniors, played an
especially fast defensive game, getting
into nearly every play, and intercepting

(Continued on page 4)

dress Thursday Night.

Last Thursday evening Mr. T. C.
Boushall, Secretary of the Y. M. C. A.
of the University of North Carolina, ad-
dressed the local Association. The sub-
ject was “The Morning Watch.” Mr.
Boushall laid down as a basis the fact
that the spiritual nature starves without
prayer, and prayer makes the true man,
that great joy and strength awaits the
man of prayer.

With this as a foundation he contin-
ued by saying that prayer confined to a

(Continued on page 4)

No. 8.

Cocks Is Cancelled

Failare to Agree Over Interpreta-
tion of Contract Is Cause.

On last ‘Thursday night the game
which was to have been piayed on Fri-
day between the University ot South
Carolina and Davidson was cancelled
after a long conference beiween officials
of the two colleges. ‘Phis cancellation
was of course a disappointinent to all
Davidson and Carolina supporters. alike,
and in order that the exact facts may be
known and understood we publish here-
with a signed statement from Dr. J. W.
McConnell, the chairman of the local
committee on athletics, which sets forth
clearly the reasons for the cancellation.

“TH will probably be of interest to the
alumni and friends of both Davidson
College and the University of South
Carolina to ascertain the real reason for
the failure of the game of foot ball to be
played today.

“Phe University of South Carolina
team wwas ina position where ne member
of the faculty or athletic board would
certify that all plavers were eligible un-
der their 6wo athletic rules. “Vhe con-
tract for the game was sipned on May
10, 1905, and stated that the eligibility
rules of each institution was to detérmine
the standing of its own players. ‘There
is practically no difference in the rules of
the two institutions as published in their
1995 catalogues.

“No member of the faculty of the
University of South Caroiina would cer-
tify that all the Carolina players were
eligible under those rules, one professor
stating frankly that he knew. they could
not qualify and in his opinion should not
plav. Davidson did not protest a single
one of the Carolina players and only ask-
ed for a list properly qualified under the
1906 rules as published in the Carolina
catalogue of April, 1915. This list could
not be furnished and the Carolina man-
agement insisted that the game be played
under their rules of = 19t3-14; which
could vot be accepted by the faculty of
Davidson College, since the contract was
made after the Carolina rules: had been
adopted.

“The Davidson team was held in
readiness until after midnight, ready to
leave for Charlotte .in machines, sa an-
vious were the students and faculty for
the game.

“The proceedings were marked by en-
tire frankness, and no attempt at any
concealment as to all facts in the case
were made h- anv committee or manage-
ment on either side, but Carolina con-
tended that the game should be plaved
under the tora rules. whereas Davidson
claimed that the contract was made in
TO1§ under, tars rules and such eligibil-
itv rules should be enfarced as well as
rors plaving rules published in Snald-
ine’s muide,

“This came has heen a classic in the
athletic history of the two institutions,
and it is ta he honed in the coming vears
#1 can he established on a firm and satis-
factory hasis.

“Tohn W. McConnell MD...

“Chm. Faculty Com. on Athletics.”

The phvsical examination of this vear’s
Freshman class reveals these facts: Aver-
age weight, 134 lhs.; average height,
5 ft. 8 inches; average age, 18.4 years.
