(.)

e 4 FRESHMEN ELE FFICERS.
The Davidsonian|*** CT OFFIC

Published every Wednesday of the College Year
by the Stadents of Davidson College.

At a meeting of the Fresh Class on
last Friday night the following officers
were clected: President, J. W. Mc-
Alister; vice-president, S. M. Gilbert;
secretary-treasurer, A. §. Potts.

The class colors selected were Black
and Old Gold.

The Freshman Class this year is the

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS
Hodrs: 7:00 to 7:30 P. M.

Eprroriat Boarp

. P. Williams........ Editor-in-Chief | largest in the history of the college, and

. J. Mitchell...... Managing Editor| the work which they have done during

P. B. Price........ Assignment Editor | the Fall shows evidence of the thorough
Tue STAFF preparation received before entrance.

T. D. Sparrow Wm. Hollister Following the usual custom of past

years, a meeting of the class was calle

R. H. Ratchford W.L. Law, Jr. near the end of the foot ball season, and

Reporrers ‘ the members of that class voted to give

W. C. Cummings J. A. Thames | sweaters to the members of the Varsity

J. R. Woods W. A. Dumas | foot ball team who make their “D.’s”.

J. B. Woods L. A. Crawford] The vote of the class was practically

-MENT unanimous on this question, and the

LH Care NT Manager committee appointed, consisting of A. S.;

W.H.Nel Potts, §. M. Gilbert and G. H. Row-

.. Assistant: Managers.| land, have been collecting the, amounts

due from each member of the class.

J. C. Paisley

Tue Davivsonian will be glad to
print all signed communications pertain-
ing to matters of interest.

OUR COACHES.

A great part of the success of this
vear’s foot ball season was due to the
ef¥cient coaching of Fetzer and Kluttz.
With raw material and “what the Lord,
and nobody else, sent them,” they  suc-
ceeded in producing one of the best
teams Davidson has had in years. Both
are old Davidsan men. and made their
letter in both foot ball and base ball
while in college. They have the old
Davidson “pep” and know how to instill
into their men the fieht that has alwavs
characterized Davidson’s teams. To
them belong a large part of the season’s
success and as a result of their labors
Davidson had this year one of the best
coached teams in the South.

Entered as second-class matter at the Pestoffice,
Davidson, N. C.

Subscription, $1 Per Year

|
EDITORIAL. |

COLLEGE SPIRIT.

College spirit means something finer
than lawlessness, dissipation and rowdy-
ism. It means the loyalty to an institu-
tion which makes a student guard its
good name by being manly and courteous
in conduct at all times and in all places.
It means the sense of responsibility
which aids a student in forming habits
of temperance and industry. It means
that eagerness to make a grateful use of
his opportunities which leads a student
to keep his own body fit, through mod-
erate athletics and a physical training
that knows no season, is never broken.
College spirit means this and far more.
Tt means that loyalty to a college which
rivets a man to the severest tasks of
scholarship, through which he gains in-
tellectual power and enthusiasm, with-
out which no graduate is an eitire credit
to any college and finally it means that
vision of an ideal life beyond commence-
ment which shows a man_ that only
through the rigid subordination of tran-
sient and trivial pleasures can he hope
to become the only great victory a col-
lege ever wins—a trained, devoted and
inspired alumnus, working for the wel-
fare of mankind.—William Trufant
Foster, President Reed College.

LIBRARY HOURS
DURING THE HOLIDAYS

The Library will be open from 2 to
3 o'clock Wednesday afternoon, De-
cember 22, 1915. The men who stay
at Davidson may get books out for holi-
day reading at this time. The reading
room will be open from 9 o'clock in the
morning ‘to 6 o'clock in the evening
every day during Christmas vacation.

College will open Wednesday. Jan-
uary 5. Regular classes will be held on
that day.

Students returning after Christmas
will report to the treasurer by 6 p. m.
of the opening dav. Any matriculation
later than this will be charged a delayed
registration fee of $2.00.

PLANS FOR BASE BALL.

The following tentative schedule has
been arranged for the coming base ball
season. Some of the games have, how-
ever, not. been definitely decided upon
yer:

Flon College, Davidson, March 3t.

Trinity, Statesville, April 13.

Trinity, Davidson, April tq.

Guilford, Snencer, April 8.

Maryville, Davidson, Avril 14.

Oak Ridge, Davidson. April 1.

Winston League or Guilford, Win-
ston or Guilford, April 24.

Trinity, Durham, April 25.

U. of N. C.. Chanel Hill. April 26.

A. and M., Raleigh, April 27.

Wake Forest, Wake Forest, April 28.

ANNOUNCEMENT.

This issue of Tre Davinsontan, will
_be the last before the Christmas Holi-
days. Tt would he highly appreciated
bv all the Staff if the members of the
Faculty could see their wav clear to ex-
cuse them from examinations, in order
that the paner might be tssued, but it
seems that the spirit has not moved them
in that way.

During the Soring. there are some
new plans for the paper which will make
a lareer and a better publication, and the
continved co-operation of the students is

Cards have been received on the cam-
wanted.

pus announcing the marriage of R.
Pair (ex-’16) to Miss Willie Lee
Latham, of Richmond, Va., on October
29.

OBITUARY.

Col. R. W. Wharton, of the class of
1849, died a few davs ago at the home
of his son-in-law, Congressman 7. H
Small, of Washington, N. C.. aged 88
vears. He was in most of the importan*
battles of the Civil War, being made
Lieutenant-Colonel in 1864.

Mrs. C. M. Richards entertained the
Mission Study Classes of the Presby-
terian Church on Monday evening. A
discussion of the book studied this Fall.
Home Missions in Action, was followed
by a social hour and refreshments.

E. R. JENKS, Proprietor} v.

The DAVIDSONIAN. December 8, 1915

e Christmas Holiday
Round Trip Special

Tickets will be
on Sale

ROY MOOSE|™

Official Photographer

fer .,| December 17, 18, 23, 24 and 25,
“Quips & Cranks with final return
See limit to
January 10, 1916.

W. G. MORRISON/|SOUTHERN RAILWAY

SPECIALS SPECIALS SPECIALS
4 Steff Upright Pianos

Plain, dull or polished mahogany cases, slightly shop worn, are offered at reduced
prices for quick disposal. You can hardly tell these instruments from new
and each one is guaranteed by us.

The terms are $25.00 down as cash payment and balance only $10.00 monthly.
One chance in a lifetime to purchase such a high grade instrument below the usual
price. Come in, see these pianos, you'll not be urged to buy.

Charlotte, N. C.

219 S. Tryon St. STIEFF

The Sanitary Barber Shop Uses) STUDENTS:
For Engraved Cards and

Clean Towels, Sharp Razors most resonable prices on

BEST ATTENTION QUALITY PRINTING

get quotations from
We will appreciate your business.

speciaL invitation to au. |Brady Printing Company
STATESVILLE, N. C.
A. MULLEN, Agent

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Daivdson, North Carolina
THOROUGH COURSES

Well Equipped Laboratories
$

THE LATEST STYLES

SCHLOSS CLOTHES
CAN BE SEEN AT
Brown-Knox Mercantile Company

NOW!
Is THE TIME FOR ALL “GOOD MEN” TO COME

to The Davidson Pressing Club

We do all kinds of Altering,
Cleaning and Dyeing.

We Press 6 Suits for $1.00. A Spectalty on Ties Cleaned
and Pressed, 2c. to 5¢ each.
WE ARE HERE TO PLEASE OUR CUSTOMERS

DAVIDSON PRESSING CLUB: R. L. Alexander, Prop.

SWEATERS

BIG, WARM, COZY Good Looking Roll Collars

ATHLETIC SWEATER COATS
Full Stock Just Received

The Commissary No. 2 Watts

