4

INSPIRING SERMONS
(Concluded from page 1)

a Tee
thusiasm increased their one talent to

ten or made their one talent do the work
of ten. -
How can this be done? ‘The_ first

essential is the yielding of the will to
God's will: giving the life unreservedly
to God’s guidance and control.

We live in an era of marvellous ma-
terial development, especially here in the
South. It is a time when one can ac-
complish more than at any other period
of the world’s history. Greater still is
the development and_ progress of the
spiritual kingdom of God. Far greater
is the need of men to lead the forces of
God in the spiritual conquest of the

world for Christ. As Dr. Josiah Strong !

said, applying the words of Napoleon to
his soldters: FE rom the pyramid top of
privilege and opportunity, upon which
God has placed us of this generation,
we look down upon forty centuries. We
stretch our hands into the future with
power to shape the destinies of unborn
millions.” If that was true a generation
ago, how much more true is It today.
Young man, first of all then, yield
yourselves to God's guidance’ and con-
trol. me to Him asking Him, Lord
what wilt Thowhaye me to do?

A second essential is work—earnest,
honest, persistent work, No matter how
great your talents, there can be“go eal
success without work. Old ‘I}gmas
Carlyle certainly rings true on th€ gos-
pel of work. It takes men of eagerness
and enthusiasm and hard work to do the
best work for the world. ;

There is just onc more essential to
the successful life, and that is persistence
and determination in spite of all ob-
stacles and discouragements; the spirit
that never gives up or surrenders. There
is the story of Mills’ carelessness with
Carlyle’s manuscript of the French
Revolution, and Carlyle’s never-give-up
spirit in rewriting it, making it his great
_masterpiece. There are the stories of
Sir Walter Scott and Peter Cooper, ex-
amples of pluck and heroism in the face
of fearful-odds and reverses.

he sermon closed with an earnest
appeal to the men of the graduating
lass to be strong, to quit themselves
like men, to dedicate their lives to God,
to put themselves in line with His plans
and purposes and to carry to a finish
with energy and enthusiasm the wor
to which He calls. Success awaits_all
such laborers. The reward is sure. The
plaudit certain: ‘Well done, good and
faithful servant, enter thou into the joy
of thy Lord.”
THE SERMON BEFORE THE Y.

M. C

. A
The sermon before the Y. M. C. A./p

was preached at 8 o'clock in the evenin
by Rev. B. F. Wilson, D.D. (84), ©
Harrisonburg, Va. His sermon was as
unlike the discourse of the morning as
possible. It was epigrammatic, pointed,
startling at times in utterance, and altu-
gether interjectional in its casting out in
every direction wholesome blocks and
fragmentary pieces of truth.

he theme was “The Reinforcement
of Life,” and to this end the necessity to
incorporate truth, and for the Christian
to be not simply alive to truth, but alive
with it. he double text was Rom.
16:19, “I would have you wise unto
that which is good, and simple concern-
ing evil,” and Matt. 7:24, “A wise man.
which built his house upon a__ rock.
‘Experimental knowledge of good with-
out the contaminating knowledge of evil
was the first thought emphasized. The
wise pilot does not seek to know where
all the rocks are, but where the chan-
nel is.

Man misses seeing what he misses be-
ing. Abraham saw the aneels from a
distance as they approached only _be-
cause his character and spiritual vision
were what they were. The way we
meet the unexpected is the true test of
what we are.

The religion of today calls‘ for action,
not for a life spent in the cloister as that
of the monks of old. All service, all
true work, can be made religious. No
selfish life can be a Christian life. Re-
inforce your life by ceasing to discuss the
religious things that do not count, e. g.,
Calvinism and Arminianism.

In this world a man may choose and
act accordingly, but he cannot choose
results. It is impossible for any one to

” J

The DAVIDSONIAN. May 29, 1915

play any game without fixed rules, and
these rules, when selected, bring fixed
results. ‘his is true everywhere in the
world of time and of eternity. ¢Rin-
force life with thoughts that are noble
and high. Whatever strengthens and
makes life moral .is of God. Man works
with God. He cannot make the woud,
nor the iron, nor the brass, but using
God's creation he can make the organ.
Man is free and yet must work with
what God has endowed him.

‘The Golden Rule is true not simply
because Jesus uttered the words. He
uttered them because they are true. Re-
inforce life with humor. This quality
brightens, sweetens, softens. Incorporate
in life and conduct the truth of the
Bible. By fruits men are known and

udged.

Fill the life not by emptying out the
evil, but by filling with good. Note the
great expulsive power of a great af-
fection and love. Air is driven out of a

glass, not by blowing into it, but by fill-|w

ing it with water.
REUNION OF SOCIETIES

(Concluded from page 1)

M. G. Boswell, F. W. Price, G. W.
Gignilliat, W. A. Dumas, M. J. Shir-
lev, P. D. Patrick.

In the Philanthropic society there
were eight graduates. . §. Alexander,
of Charlotte, was the valedictorian, and
bade farewell for his class-mates to the
work and .associations of “Old Phi.”
T. D. Sparrow delivered the response.
Diplomas were awarded to the follow-
ing: . S. Alexander, J. A. Carriker,
1. W. S. Gilchrist, F. L. Harkey, J.
Harper, A. R. Howland, H. B. Over-
cash, C. H. Rowan. In both societies
the exercises were closed with bright
and happy speeches from alumni who
were present.

GYMNASIUM EXHIBIT.

At 10 o'clock Monday morning the
annual Commencement Gymnasium Ex-
hibit was given in Commencement Hall.
The fymnasium team of cight men, un-
der the captaincy of W. M. Winn, af-
forded an hour of excellent eptertain-
ment, many declaring that it was the
best exhibition given in many years at
Davidson. Pyramids, parallel and hori-
zontal bar work, spring board dives and
“flips,” and fying ring stunts were the
features. Ed, Murray, captain of last
year’s team, was present in uniform and
contributed a large share to the success
of the exhibit. Russell Minter made
his final appearance as acrobat and
clown par excellence and brought down
the house. he others taking part
were, J. G. Thacker, | W. S. Gilchrist,

. W. Porter, P. B. Price. R. H. Ben-
nett, E. P. Childs, A. B. Young.

CONCERT.

Before a full hall on Monday after-
noon the Davidson Orchestra and Glre
Club gave a delightful concert of music
and song. Both Orchestra and Glee
Club have closed one of the best and
most successful years of their existenc:,
and their Commencement entertainn.ent
was the climax of the year. The progr.m
opened with an_ orchestra selection,
“Daughter of the Regiment—Over-
ture.” by Tobani. Others of _ their
selections which were enjoyed during
the hour were, “The Aviator” and
“Starlight,” by Cruger; “The Yellow
acket,”” and “Stradella,” by Flotow.
The Glee Club sang ‘‘The Song of the
Pirate,” by Rhvs-Herbert, and ‘Hark,
Hark, the Horn That Wakes the
Morn.” T. P Johnston is leader of ‘he

lee Club, of which there are fifteen
members. The quartet of J. L. Fowle.
C. W. Ansley, T. P. Johnston, and D.
M. McGeachy, sang ‘When You Wore
a Tulio and I Wore a Red Rose,” i:nd
then after vociferous encoring, “Mem-
phis Blues.” Ansley delighted
the audience with two solos, the second
with Orchestra accompaniment.

The Orchestra, in addition to the

Annual Concert, furnished music at the] D

opening and close of each of the Com-
mencement exercises.

Twenty prospective
next Fall have already sent in their
certificates and have been accepted. Of

this number, only one fails to measure|Sparrow_(Phi.), on

up to the required fourteen units for
entrance.

SENIORS HOLD SWAY

(Concluded from pagé 1)

(Phi.) ; .Fresh-Soph debater’s medals to
Ww. Cumming (Phi.), and J. R.
Woods (Eu.); Junior-Senior debater’s
medals to J. G. Patton (Eu.), and Dun-
can Shaw (Phi.); Essayist’s medals to
G. W. Gignilliat, Jr. (Eu.), and U. S.
Alexander (Phi.); and the Fiction
medal from both societies to J. B. Ar-
rowood.

The exercises were closed by the bene-
diction by Rev. Harding, who
took occasion to compliment highly the
practised skill of the contestants ia the
oratorical contest.

MEETING OF THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION.

‘At this meeting at 2:30, in Shearer
Hall, Dr. R. H. Lafferty, the President.
presided. Mr. Charles L. Grev, of
Davidson. was elected President; Mr.
; Barley, of Greenwood, S. C.,
Vice-President, and Dr. W. Mce-
Connell, Secretary and Treasurer. The
Athletic Committee is composed of Dr.

. . McKay, of Charlotte: Dr. L.
G. Bell, of Greensboro, and Coach W.
McKay Fetzer. A fee of $1 was de-
cided on, the money to be used for ar-
ranging entertainment for the Alumni
at Commencement. Good progress was
reported in the raising of $25,000 for
the new gymnasium. The Association
heartily recommended .that every mem-
her of the Association subscribe to THE
DaviDsONIAN.

CLASS DAY EXERCISES.
Formal class day exercises are a new

wr

C.|thing at Davidson, but the graduating

class in inaugurating them Tuesday aft-
ernoon made them one of the most im-
pressive and interesting ceremonies of
this Commencement. The class formed
in line at 4 o'clock in front of the Li-
brary, where their gift to the College, a
pair of light standards, graces the steps,
and .marched in a procession led by
Riggs McConnell, in cap and gown like
the class who had adopted him, to the
south side of Chambers building, where
they planted several sprigs of ivy, march-
ing thence to the plattorm erected _be-
tween Elm Row and the Phi
Here the members of the class signed
their names in the Class Book, after
which the speakers of the afternoon
mounted the platform while the other
members of the class arranged them-
selves in a semicircle on the grass before
them. G. W. Gignilliat, Jr., delivered
the salutatory, in which he pictured the
future awaiting Davidson and the class.
C. M. Gibbs read the class record,
reviewing the college days of the class.

he ivy oration was well delivered by
U. S. Alexander. J. W. S. Gilchrist
read the class poem, a very original one
in form and content. cll-
waine in delivering the class oration
spoke of the class motto, Non Sibi, and
its relation to the development of the
college. F. Wi Price in presenting the
class gift to the college bid the two lights
“Shine, Shine, Just Where You Are,”
and Dr. Martin received the gift for the
college with a very fitting and graceful
speech. Norman Johnson, President of
the class, then presented the class
urging the next class to make its roll in
it as large as possible, to J. P. Williams,
President of the Junior class. P. D.
Patrick then closed the exercises with
the valedictory. The class then_march-
ed in a bodv, singing “College Ties,” to
the umbrella tree, where in a short
meeting they elected their alumni off-
cers: . Price, President; P. D.
Patrick. Secretary, and W. A. Mcll-
waine, Treasurer.

After the class day exercises Mrs.
Martin entertained in honor of the vis-
iting mothers and their hostesses.

JUNIOR ORATORICAL CONTEST.

This contest took place in the Com-
mencement Hall at 8:30. Prof. A. Cur-
rie presided, and after the invocation by
r. W. L. Lingle, L. A. Mullen (Eu.),
spoke on “The Demand of the Hour;”

, A. McDonald (Phi.), on “The
Mills of God ;” W. C. Copeland ( Phi.)

Freshmen forjon “The Death Knell of Militarism;’ {the Association, have

J. G. Patton (Eu.), “The Danger of

the Present Peace Movement ;”

“The

True Press.”

nd
a

|__| _______ EEE

ALUMNI RECEPTION. , .

At 10 o'clock, at the Library, the An-

nual Alumni Reception was held. Aft-

ed the first part of the reception the

guests adjourned for refreshments to

the lawn and steps on the west side,
which were beautifully lighted.

INTERESTING ITEMS ABOUT
CHAMBERS BUILDING

Through a gift by Mr. Maxwell
Chambers. of Salisbury, N. C., who
died in 1855, it became possible for the
college to erect the building which was
named for its donor.

The work of construction was started
in 1857 and completed in_ 1860, al-
though it was used for the Commence-
ment in 1859. The contract for the
building was awarded to Mr. J. N.
Scofield, father of Mr. S. C. Scofield,
the genial “Colonel,” at a total cost of

5.000.

The original plans called for two
cupolas and length enough for two and.
a half more rooms at each end. But
these were cut off in order to keep the
cost within the above limit. This ac-
counts for the half-sized rooms at the
ends, and meant a loss of thirty-six
rooms to the building.

The stone -for the pillars was hauled
from Rocky River, near ncord, and
the bricks were made on the lot where
the railroad water tank now _— stands,
near the station.

The class of 1869, as Juniors, laid
out the walks of the campus. For the, .
great circular walk each member of the
class drew a plan and made calculations.

hen grass seed was sown and the stu-
dent bodv joined in planting the trees.

Recently the Eastman Kodax Com-
pany took a picture of the front of the
Chambers building and made an en-
larged copv of it for exhibition at the
San Francisco Exposition this vear.

he various dimensions of the build-
ine are as follows: Length, 207 feet;
heighth (including cupalo), 95 feet;
heighth of the columns, 45 feet; diam-
eter of columns (at base), 6.5 feet; cir-
cumference of columns, 21.6 feet:

all, |heighth of wings, 44 feet: length of

wines. 107.8 feet; width of main part,
81.8 feet; diameter of cupola. 32 feet.

Contained in the building are 72 dor-
mitory rooms, five class rooms, three
nhvsics laboratories, the Commencement
hall. and the old museum.

The original rafters and beams and
some of the original doors still remain,
wooden pegs havine heen used in join-
ine them instead of nails.

he lime for the mortar was mined
out of Little Mountain. across the Ca-
tawha, and the planed lumber used was
cut in South Carclina and brought up
on wavons from Charlotte.

Y. M. C. A. HOLDS
FINAL MEETING

Thursday night, the 20th, the last
meeting of the Y. M. C. A. for this
collegiate year, Frank Price, the
ing president, spoke on “Decision. 7

e applied the duty of decision to
every-day dife, showing how much great-
er in every way the man of decision is
than one of constant wavering mind and
vascillating will. He urged
principle be pressed also in the great as
well as small problems. A man’s life
work should be decided in the light of
the world’s need and man’s own talents
and powers.

In closing, he threw out three chal-
lenges, the challenge of the power of
youth, the challenge of the one life, the
challenge of the one day. These chal-
lenges can_only be met by the power of
the great Man of Decision and Power,
Jesus Christ.

retir-
ii)

that this

ARRANGEMENTS FOR
BLUE RIDGE

W. A. Dumas, chairman of the com-
mittee_on_ the Blue Ridge delegation,
and W. G. Somerville, the president of
left r their
homes, but they will keep in touch with

. D.|all men expecting to attend the student
“The Spirit of jconference. It
orth Carolina;” F. H. Smith (Eu.),|delegation will

is hoped that a winni
be at Blue Ridge thie

summer.
