id

Ihe Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Yea
by the Students of Davidson College.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS
Hours: 7:00 to 7:30 P. M.

EprroriaL Boaro

. P. Williams........ Editor-in-Chic;
. J. Mitchell...... Managing Editor
P. B. Price........ Assignment Editu:
Tue STarr
T. D. Sparrow Wm. Holliste:
R. H. Ratchford W. L. Law, Jr
REPORTERS
W. C. Cummings J. A. Thames
J. R. Woods W. A. Dumas
J. B. Woods L. A. Crawford
MAaANnaGeMENT
J. H. Carson....... Business Manager
W.H. Neal Assistant Managers.

J. C. Paisley

Sa A

Trin Davinsonian will be glad to
print all signed communications pertain-
ing to matters of interest.

Entered as second-class matter at the Pestoffice,
Davidson, N. C.

EET
nee ——————————————

Subscription, $1 Per Year
————————————

, |
EDITORIAL. |

NEGLECTED OPPORTUNITIES.

In the larger colleges and universities
it is not unusual for a man to be en-
rolled for four years and not be known
personally to any member of the faculty.
‘The only time that he has the opportun-
ity to get even a glimpse of the more hu-
man side of the ones who meet him for
the different classes is during the formal
receptions, which receptions are not con-
ducive to extreme friendliness.

In comparison, we know that at Dav-
idson, every man is cordially welcomed
into the different homes of the faculty,
and what is more important, he is made
to feel “at home.” Tn innumerable ways
they have shown that their doors are
wide open to the students and that they

“are glad to know them. And not only is
this true of the members of the faculty,
but there are many homes in Davidson
which are not strictly connected with the
college, but where students may always
find a hearty welcome.

Students are constantly changing from
year to year, and the man who knows
everyone on the campus today, will be
almost a ‘total stranger five years from
row, if he comes back to visit the college.
But those ‘men who have lived outside
of the narrow boundary of the campus
and have had wider interests than just
among their fellow students—when they
return, they find a great number of their
friends still at Davidson, and their re-
turn really means something to them.

Has there not grown up within the
last few years a sentiment that to visit
the homes of the faculty and of the peo-
ple of the town—and to really make
friends there—that this is not a part of
the student’s life at Davidson? We are
sure that no one will regret this more
than the members of the faculty them-
selves—and probably in later years, every
man who follows this course, will re-
yret the opportunity he has neglected
to visit the homes of the faculty mem-
bers and to know intimately those who
are first “Men” and afterwards, “Pro-
fessors.”

MID-TERM REPORTS,

The mid-term reports have gone the
rounds. They have been carefully scruti-
nized by anxious mothers and_ fathers
and interested uncles and aunts; not to
speak of manv younger brothers and sis-
ters. who will gently and kindly refer
at Christmas time to the comments of
the various professors, that the work “Is

Ihe DAVIDSONIAN, November 24, 1915

very low and unsatisfactory and TROY MOOSE|ISOUTHERN

course not forgetting the exact number

of professors who made these statements. Official Photographer R AILW AY
‘These reports have come back to us to

show us that the work which has been for

Jone has been satisfactory or in) some , ,
cases, to show us that there is need to “Qui s & Cranks” Premier Car. rler of
brace up and put every ounce of energy Pp the South
that we can into the final few weeks be- Ss
fore. the Christmas examinations. ee Special Attention Given
hese reports are simply intended as . .

an aid to the student and the parents in W. G. MORRISON to Athletic Trips
finding the opinion of the professors, and
they are not a permanent record. There |
is not even a record of them kept in the Q [ ! A l TT Y HIRS I
office.

No one should be discouraged because Fliminate future troubles by buying in the beginning the best piano. STIEFF

of an unsatisfactory report. Hf it is good. PIANOS have everlasting durability, combined with rich tone and perfect
it should be an encouragement, and if it action. Over five hundred Colleges, Schools, Churches and musicians use

is not good, it should be an added _in- STIEFF PIANOS

centive to work harder.
Write for catalogue and prices

THE COLLEGE WATER SUPPLY.

The scarcity of water at the besin- 219 S Tryon St. STIEFF Charlotte, N. C.

ning of the term made it evident that Opposite Academy of Music Established 1842
the six bored wells from which the col-
lege water supply has been drawn are

ineuffcient for present needs, and as a1 TN Sanitary Barber Shop Uses}) STUDENTS:

result work was promptly begun on the
sinking of four new wells. On account For Engraved Cards and
most resonable prices on

of striking rack one of these had to be Clean Towels, Sharp Razors
ahandoned, but the other three are giv-
BEST ATTENTION QUALITY PRINTING

ing very sitisfactary service. Two or

{} three more wells will be driven in the get quotations from

near future so as to obviate any possi-

bility of an exhaustion of the water We will appreciate your business. B d Pri .

supply. The present supply pipe from SPECIAL INVITATION TO ALL. ra y inting Company
the wells to the college, which is too STATESVILLE, N. C

emall for the increased demand upon it, E R JENKS Pr © t ames

will be replaced by a four-inch main | ° 9 oprie or L. A. MULLEN, Agent
running from the pumping station to the

site selected for the new tank tower
which the college is expecting to erect in

the near future. “Phese changes ‘will D
mean much to the student body and will S ON O L LE G E
assure permanent efficiency in the water

supply. e tt °
The college water has been noted for Daivdson, No Carolina

its purity and for the good report of it

made by the State Lahoratory of Hy- 4 THOROUGH COURSES

wiene at Raleigh, to which the college °
is required to send samples of its drink- e

ing water every month according to W Eq :

state law. Recently there has been some ell uipped Laboratories

air in the water as is noticeable in its

TInt tavern! THE LATEST STYLES IN

have been reset and the other adjust-

ments made. Ww. c. Cc.
scutes... SCHLOSS CLOTHES
FOR NEW DEBATERS ,
Miss Shaw, the college librarian, has CA T
collected several books pertaining to N BE SEEN A

Public Speaking and Debating, and has ¢
i t at

Rhy for de heat of nepecenced] BEOWM-KNOX Mercantile Company
debaters and speakers. These hooks are

to go out under the same regulations as

reference material, and may be studied WH '
withia the debating room at any time. °

The Freshmen are especially urged to
take advantage of this splendid collec-| Wear solled and wrinkled clothes when Alexander will keep them

tion, Looking New---6 Suits for $1.00

. al . 4 i iF; oe
Dr. Donald T. Rankin (class 1909)) 44 yon are not a member see our representatives, purchase a ticket

was a visiter recently, after six years of

absence. He graduated: at the Homeo- at once and fall in line. All tickets must be endorsed.
pathic Medical College of N. Y. in

1914, and has heen since that time con- THE DAVIDSON PRESSING CLUB

nected with the Homeopathic Hospital

of Pittsburg. Pa. R. L. ALEXANDER, Proprietor
LITERARY SOCIETIES.

On account of the Senior Oratoricals SWE A
this week, there will be no literary so- .

ciety meeting Saturday evening. The
nrogram for Monday morning is as fol- BIG, WARM, COZY -- Good Looking Roll Collars

lh Society: Berryhill, Coachman. ATHLETIC SWEATER COATS

Childs. Campbell, R. G. Finley. Car-
con, Mountcastle. Morris, D. J. Mc- Full Stock Just R e ceive d

Keithan, Mann, Pavne.
Eu. Society: Fountain, Frierson.

George, Gilbert, W. A. Hall, D. V. The Commissary No. 2 Watts
L.

e
e

Hudson, Jinkins, Edgerton, Hoyt.
