The DAVIDSONIAN

Vol. Il.

Dr. Thornton Lectures
On Panama Canal

Account ot Acquisition and Cen-
struction of Canal is Given.

Last Thursday evening Dr. W. M.
Thornton, Dean of the Electrical De-
partment of Engineering, of the Univer-
sity of Virginia, delivered one of the
most interesting lectures of the season
to an audience that filled the auditorium
in Shearer Hall. Dr. Thornton is in a
position to speak authoritatively on his
subject, “The Panama Canal,” having
been the guest of Colonel Goethals in
the Canal zone some two years ago.

Dr. Thornton spoke very interesting-
ly for about an hour before presenting
the slides which added very: much to the
interest of the occasion. It will be re-
membered that Dr. Vhornton was Pro-
fessor of Greek at Davidson in 1875,
and hefore beginning his lecture Dr.
Thornton spoke of the pleasure of re-
newing the association of the first years
of his active college work.

In opening his lecture Dr. Thornton
spoke of the appropriateness of the
names of the two operating points at the
extremities of the canal, Christobol
Colon (Spanish for Christopher Colum-
bus) and Balboa, He continued by show-
ing how much we owe to the French for
their labors in that country. “They spent
$42,000,000 on the canal, and much of
the machinery that they brought over
has been used to advantage in the later
work there. He stated that the great
hindrance to the French in their under:
taking was the uncontrollable yellow
fever. This great obstacle was over-
come by the Americans by their method
of sanitation, and in 1907 there was only
one death in the zone that was caused
by this peril. Dr. Thornton paid a trib-
ute to sanitary conditions of the country
by saying that in his stay in the zone he
did not see a single mosquito and only
two flies.

The topography of the zone was pic-
tured as varying from the seven miles of
swamp on the Atlantic seaboard to the
forty miles of hills reaching the Pacific,
reminding one of the foot hills of our
own Blue Ridge section. The many
landslides are caused, he said, by the
peculiar structure of the earth. In some
places it is a thick deposit of a slimy soil,
which was formed in a period when that
section was inundated by the conjunction
of the two seas.

The size of the great locks was seen
when a lantern slide was shown giving
a view of a six-story building placed in
it and just reaching the top, a large
sized engine in the conduit that supplied
the water, and a horse and buggy in the
smaller conduit. The locks are 110 feet
wide, thus allowing the largest ships to
pass in safety. Dr. Thornton stated
that to put a ship through all of them
would require the amount of water that
a city the size of Charlatte would use in
six months.

Dr. Thornton showed the great im-
portance of the canal for military and
cammercial purnoses. The upkeep of
this canal, he said. was $10,000 a day.
yet the tolls during the first year
amounted to enough to more than pay
this amount. The total capacity of the
canal is twenty ships a day and the re-

» (Continued on page 4)

News and Happenings
Of the Week In Town

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON. N. C., MARCH 22, 1916.

lOrehestra and Glee

Club Takes Trip

Social and Personal Items About|Concerts Are Given at Lenoir,

the Town People.

Miss Carrie Hood, of the local public
school, has been called home by the death
of her uncle,

+

Dr. and Mrs. Moore McConnell
gave a very delightful reception ‘Vhurs-
day afternoon in honor of Professor
‘Thornton, of the University of Virginia.
Delicious refreshments were served and
the event was much enjoyed.

% a a

The International Polity Club at a

meeting last Friday afternoon adopted a

very interesting program for the — re-

mainder of the collegiate year,
t 4

U. S. Alexander, ‘15, teacher of mod-
ern languages at Myer's School for
Boys, in Savannah, will have charge of
German in’ the Montreat Summer
School during the coming season. Mr.
Alexander is ene of the best students of
modern languages that has been grad-
uated from Davidson in the past few
years.

a ‘

Mrs. T. W. Lingle has been engaged
to conduct a course. in parliamentary
government for the women of the South-
ern Presbyterian Church who will be at
Montreat during the coming summer.

cd * *

Mrs. J. M. Worth has returned from

a very enjoyable visit to relatives in
Wilmington.
* * *
Mrs. Whittaker and Dr. FE. H.

Harding made a short visit to Charlotte
the last part of the week.
‘ * *

Miss McMillan and friend are spend-
ing the week-end with the mother of the
former in Davidson.

+ #*

Everett Booe left ‘Thursday for Fort
Smith, Ark., where he will begin training
for the coming base ball season, with the
St. Paul team. '

‘TRACK MEETS PLANNED.

About twenty-five men responded to
the captain’s call for candidates for the
track team last Friday. While there has
not been much interest in track work
heretofore, this year seems to be an ex-
ception. The “Red and Black” will very
probably meet three colleges. A contract
has already been signed with Clemson
College for a meet on the local field
May 13. Plans are heing made for a
meet with the “Aggies” at Raleigh on
Easter Monday. Davidson will very
probably enter the State contest which
will be held at Chapel Hill the latter
part of the season,

The old men returning are:
Morrison. captain; W. A.
Crouch, Perry, A. G. Finley and Dave
Worth. Manv new men are also show-
ing up well. Coach Klutz will give the
greater part of his time to this branch of
athletics for the rest of the season. Prac-
tice began last Friday. Only light work
will be given the candidates for the first
few days, after which practice begins in
earnest, and will be held each day at
4:30 p. m. on the athletic field.

W. G.

Johnson, |

Asheville and Marion.

The Orchestra and Glee Club return-
ed on last “Tuesday from a trip of sev-
eral days through the western part of the
State. As a whole the trip was one ot
the most enjoyable that this organiza-
tion has ever taken. Leaving David-
son early Thursday morning, the first
stop was made at Lenoir, where the
members of the organization were enter
tained by the hospitable people of that
town. In the afternoon a visit was made
to Davenport College, where the Glee
Club rendered. several songs, and the
young ladies of the college returned the
compliment by singing: several selections.
which were greatly enjoyed. “That even
ing a concert was given in the High
School auditorium before a pood audi
ence,

On Friday morning the journey was
resumed and Asheville was reached by
noon, During the stay in that city a
part of the organization were guests of
R. B. McKee, at Bingham School, and
the others were entertained at the Ashe-
ville Normal College. That night a
concert was given at the High School
auditorium, and.on Saturday night the
club was greeted by a large and enthus-
iastic audience at the Normal College.
Leaving Asheville Monday afternoon,
Marion was the next stop, and there an
other good audience received the musi
cians that night. The return trip) to
Davidson was made on Tuesday.

The features of the concerts rendered
were the vocal solos by J. L. Fowle,
vidlin solos by F. HH. Baker, and the
comic work of I. A. Mullen.

Another trip into the eastern part of
the State is contemplated ino the near
future.

INTER-HIGH SCHOOL CON-
TESTS HERE THIS SPRING

The. Inter-High School Athletic and
Literary contest for the West Central
District of North Carolina which was
held here last vear with much success.
will again be held at Davidson. Ar-
rangements have been completed. “The
dates decided upon are April 6 and 7.
The contest will assume: much greater
proportions this vear, as the city high
schools in this district will compete.
Such cities as Charlotte, Statesville and
Concord will send delegations which
should add much to the interest of these
contests.

It is estimated that the total number
of high schools participating will reach
sixty,

The contests in declamation, recita-
tion, composition and spelling will be
held on Friday night, the 6th, and the
athletic contest, composed of the field
events, will take place on the following
day.

Mr. C. W. Weddington, of Concord,
has charee of the details of the contests,
and will be glad to give anv informa-
tion concerning them. The judges have
not yet heen chosen, but notice will be
made of their selection at an early date.

Dr. Martin is on a visit to the eastern
part of the State.
f

No. 23

Base Ball Season
Opens on Monday

First Game to Be With Catawba---
Varsity Not Yet Selected.

Local fans will have their first oppor-
tunity of seeing the Davidson base ball
team in action against a collegiate foe on
next Monday, the 27th, when the Red
and Black will line up against Catawba
College for the opening game of the sea-
son on Sprunt Field. While the game is
supposed to be a mere practice affair, it
is more than likely that a lively tussle
will be seen, for Catawba comes here
with a line-up of old men and brilliant
youngsters that are heralded as ball toss-
ers of no mean ability. Behind the bat,
they have the unusual spectacle of three
candidates bf the same name. “Pwo are
brothers, while the third is an outsider
of the family name. ‘The trio are Rein-
hardts, Frank, Cecil and. John by aame,
and while it is nor known which one of
the three will start, it is certain that a
Reinhardt will catch. The pitchers will
probably be chosen from Rowe, a vet-
eran of last vear, and John Fesperman.
First base is held down by Frank Fes-
perman, second by Foil and third by Joe
Whitener. “Uhe outfield is nor known,
as they are, new men. However, it is
promised that the Catawbans will pres-
ent a formidable line-up with all these
old men, and one worthy of giving Dav-
idson a run for her money in the first
game of the 1966 season.

‘The local line-up is a matter of con-
jecture. Coach Fetzer has not vet de-
cided definitely just the combination
which he will start as his Varsity. Some
of the positions can be pretty certainly
named, but about half of them are. still
Open te competition. Captain Alford
will be on the job behind the bat, with
Faires and Burns ready to step in ona
moment's notice, Saunders, whe has
heen playing regular first-baseman, has
been kept from practice recently with a
slit indisposition, but will probably be
ready to plav by Monday. {his ab-
sence, Steve Walker has been trying his
hand at the initial sack. “The remainder
of the infield circuit affords the above-
mentioned perplexity in regard to the
final line-up. Tt is likely that the show-
ing of the different candidates this week
will determine the status of the opening
line-up around the last two-thirds of the
infield. Johnson, Wood and Black have
been filling the positions lately, with
McKinnon, Younger and Pharr taking
occasional turns. .

Bennie Brown is practically the only
certainty in the outfield. Left-field and
center will be filled from the following:
Sam Keesler, Walker, Hengeveld, Law-
son, McMillan and J. W. Miller.

Of course, it would be impossible to
predict who will take the mound in the
first game, as Coach Fetzer has four
competent and willing hurlers eager to
toss the first one over. Lawson and
Hengeveld are in fine fettle, and could
go the full route if necessary. Shaw ts
also in pretty good condition, and the biz
southpaw has been showing plenty of
stuff lately. Perhaps he will) be the
choice for the opening game. The two
Freshmen, Currie and Monteith, are in
good shape, and have been getting plenty
of work lately. Currie has been getting

(Continued on page 4)
