The DAVIDSONIAN

Vol. Hil.

Queens College Glee
Club Gives Concert

Large Audience Enjoys Entertain-
ment on Monday Night.

‘The concert given by the Queens Col-
lege Choral Club at Davidson on last
Monday night was one of the most in-
teresting attractions of the season. It
was attended by an unusually large num-
ber of the students and townspeople.
The whole program was carried out
beautifully, and the occasion proved to
be both enjoyable and entertaining.

The announcement of the absence of
Miss McRae. the solo pianist, was a
disappointment to all those present who
heard her last vear. But it can be said.
with equal certainty, that Miss Stokes.
who took Miss McRae’s place. filled her
part of the program splendidly.

The solos by Misses Ruth Mason
and Cora Clark were also rendered beau
tifully.

Miss Smith, the violinist. added a
great deal to the success of the occasion.
The violin solo rendered by her was
very much appreciated.

Mrs. Coral Baker. head of the music
department at Queens, is to be congratu-
lated upon producing such an excellent
program. The entertainment was prob-
ably the very best ever given at David-
son by the Queens College Choral Club.

Immediately following the concert an
informal reception was given in the Y.
M. C. A. Social Center. The member:
of the visiting Glee Club and a number
of the college students were present
Punch was served and a very enjoyvabl-
hour was spent.

TRIP FOR ORCHESTRA
AND GLEE CLUB

The members of the Orchestra and

Glee Club have been practising with
redoubled efforts for the ‘past week or
two in anticipation of the trip they have
in view this week. “The manager has
given out the following details of the
trip:

Leaving here on the first train Thurs
day morning, the organization makes its
way to Lenoir, where the first concert
is to be held. The following day, they
visit Asheville. where they are to remain
three days, giving one concert at the
High School of that city and one at the
Normal and Collegiate Institute. - Re-
maining there over Sunday, they go on
the following dav to Marion. Tuesday
morning they will be back on the ‘‘Hill,”
after one of the best trips the Orchestra
and Glee Club has ever undertaken.
Those who will make the trip are:
Baker. Bennett, Cashion, Childs, Coach-
man, Clark, Cranford, Fairly. Fowle,
Harwood. Honeycutt. McKee, Morri-
son, Morton, Neal, ‘Townsend, Witt
and Lott.

ANNUAL GOES TO PRESS.

The greater part of the material for
the Annual went to the press Saturday,
and the rest will go this week. Owing
to the proximity of the publication, this
week is the last chance for those who
have not signed up for one to do so by
seeing W. G. Morrison, the manager.
There will be no extra Annuals. ordered.

Prospects for Varsity

Base Ball Are Good

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C.. MARCH 8, 1916.

IMiss Bargelt Pleases

Large Audience

Number of Old Men Returned and Readings and Drawings Comprise

New Material Showing Up Well.

With the first signs of the reappear-
ance of spring weather. the local base
ball followers heeded the insistent call
of the horschide, and for three weeks have
been working out daily under the tutel-
age of Coaches Fetzer and. Nluttz, aided
by Captain Alford. On last ‘Thursday
the formal call was issued for candidates
by Captain Alford, and as the athletic
field has not vet recovered from the
double drenching of rain and snow  re-
ceived last week, the squad has been
holding daily light work-outs on the
campus.
winning Davidson team are excellent.
There is a wealth of last year's material,
both Varsity and Scrub, back in- uni-
form, and besides this. there is a number
of promising new men and Freshmen
eager for a chance at the coveted posi-
ions,

Behind the bat, Captain Alford will
do the bulk of the work. However, he
must needs have an assistant, and for

this post there are several aspirants.
Faires and Burns, the former from
Charlotte High, and the latter from

Sumter, S. C.. are battling for the see-
ond string berth, with scarcely a choice
between the two as yet. Hach seems to
be very promising receivers,. and as yet
no prediction can be made as to which
will be successful. At first base. Pete
Saunders, -last year's first corner man.
will again in all probability — pastime.
However, there are a few disputers of
this prediction, in the person of “Ostree-

lum” White, of foot ball fame, and Me-'

Askill and “Pigiron” Sutton, of — the
Fresh class. As vet, none of these have
developed quite enough smoke to de-
throne Pete from his station. Second,
third, and shortstop, are positions for
much conjecture. There have been
numerous shifts and changes of combina-
tions in an effort to place the right man
in the right place, and it is not vet set-
tled as to just how these three positions
will be filled. Here, more than in any
other position, the new men are appear-
ing strong. “‘Att’’ Woods, Jack Black and
Pharr, of last year’s squad. are the old
men striving for the positions. Of the
new men, Johnson, “Monk” Younger.
and Boswell, seem to have the call for
choice. Johnson seems at home in any
of the three infield positions, Younger
plays a creditable game at cither second
or short, and Boswell is showing up es-
pecially well at short, so that the vets
are having a grand tussle to hold their
jobs. There should be some lively
scrapping for these positions, and there
is no telling how the first game will find
them placed.

In the outfield Davidson is very for-
tunate in that four old men have return-
ed, and claim their positions. “These are
the last year’s outfield. Walker, Brown,
and Keesler, with the addition of Dutch
Hengeveld, the reformed pitcher, of last

(Continued on page 4)
+ * * * * * ~ ca * .

The following men have joined
the Blue Pencil Club:

P. B. Price S.'T. Henderson

S. R. Keesler W: Y. Sayad °

T. J. Mitchell *
oe

e & & & & &
* et

‘in the west.

Third Lyceum Number.

A well pleased audience left Shearer
Hall last Saturday night after listening
to the readings and admiring the draw-
ings by Miss Bargelt. “This was one ot
the most interesting numbers given this
year in the Laceum course.

Miss Bargelt began the entertainment
by drawing a beautiful picture ot a home
on it hillside, with the golden sun sinking
Among the next was a
moonlight scene which could be called
“The ‘Time. the Place and the Girl”

That which may be considered the

‘The indications for another | bese part of the program was a reading.

the time of whose setting was during the
Civil War. Tt was of a Confederate
spy who had come through the Union
lines to bring food to his little daughter
staying at home by herself. He was
tracked and found by a detachment of
Union soldiers. A price was upon his
head, but the Federal Liteutenant Col
onel was so moved by the bravery and
love of the little girl and her father that
he allowed him to escape.

Miss Bargelt concluded the program
by making a few more cartoons, One
‘with a piccaninny watching a) water-
clon, entitled “Love at First: Sight,”
brought taughter and applause from
those present.

The last was a beautiful water and
forest scene pictured just at sunset with
the sun shining over the water and tint-
ing it with sparkling jewels, One could
almost see the small sail boat moving
silently over the smooth waters. She
closed with the fitting statement that “the
sun as it sinks in the west has done all it
could for the day,” and with the question,
“can the same be said of ourselves?”

THE ORGANIZATION OF
POLITY CLUB COMPLETED

At a meeting held last Friday after
noon, final steps were taken to perfect
the organization of the local Interna-
tional Polity Club. This club, which
has for its object the discussion of inter-
national problems, was only recently es
tablished at Davidson and in the course
of a few days will become a member of
the confederation of similar organiza-
tions in many of the leading colleges of
the United States.

Mr. Lewis S. Gannett, of Harvard,
representing the. Carnegie Foundation.
addressed the club, stating in an inter-
esting manner the history and aim of the
polity club movement. He also told of
ideas and plans which had proven suc-
cessful in other colleges. At’ the con-
clusion of his talk, the club adopted a
constitution submitted by a committee
previously appointed, and elected the fol-
lowing officers: F. H. Smith, — presi-
dent; R. H. Ratchford. vice-president,
and J. A. Thames, secretary ind treas-
urer. The officers, with Professors Ful-
ton and Currie as faculty councillors,
compose sthe executive committee,

The club intends to have a number of
public lectures this spring by prominent
speakers, and Dr. Hamilton, of the Uni-
versity of North Carolina, who speaks
here March 11. is to give the first of
these series. He is coming under the
auspices of both the club and faculty.

No. 21.

Past Season In Basket
Ball a Successful One

First Year of Intercolicgiate Games
Develops Fast Team.

The itollowing men have been
recommended tor the basket ball *
“PD by the coach and captain and
passed by the “Wearers of the D.”
Betore the awards can-be made they
must be passed by the Executive
Committee of the Athletic Associa-
tion:

Reese

Walker, R.

Wood, A. C.

Hengeveld
King. Geo.
Younger

When last tall the Varsity basket ball
team was called out for practice, it: was
not very seriously thought of of the cam-
pus, for past seasons had not developed
anything very startling along basket ball
lines in Davidson circles. However, this
slighting: attitude towards the team was
soon dispelled when the students awoke
to find they had a real team on the floor,
one able to hold its own with anything in
the State, and one that would be a credit
to Davidson. ‘The change from indif-
ference to startling, success with its: bas-
ket ball team, Davidson can attribute to
the fact that she had a coach, a factor
which Was sadly lacking last: vear, and
that she had a bunch of scrapping, fight-
ing, riproaring, basketeers, determined
to put out a team.

The season just closed has been a suc-
cess from all viewpoints, Out of twenty
rames played, eleven have been won and
nine lost, a percentape of .550 for the
season. “This is above the average, and
a record to be proud of, .

Captain Reese, at guard, has been the
mainstay and particular star of the team
all season. His swift) foot work. en-
abling him to range all over the floor,
and yet be able to hold his forward, has
made him an especially valuable scorer.
It was a common thing for him to score
more than half the Davidson points, on
foul goals and field goals. He is an un-
erring foul shot, and rarely fell down on
this branch. He is one of the best field
goal shooters Davidson has. Altogether,
he has proved himself well worthy of
captaining such a team. His work the
season through has been the backbone of
the Davidson offense and defense.

At forwards, three men, Ring, Childs
and Wood, divided the honors. ‘There
was little to pick between these three
men. King is a forward of the accurate
shooting type. as is Wood. Childs is a
whirlwind player on working the ball
down-court, and on dribbling. He is’
verv hard to guard, and manages to
break away for more clean shots than
any man on the team, perhaps. King
was the scoring star of the season, how-
ever, with his overhead, backhand, and
other freak shots, which seemed to have
an uncanny facility for entering the goal.
Wood took Childs’ place in the regular
line-up, after having split it with him for
a part of the season, when Eddie was
called home just prior to the last road.
trip, and proved himself am excellent
shot, and a very hard man to guard.

At center “Dutch” Hengeveld played
in a class by himself. Being a big man,

one would not think he would be excep-

(Continued on page 4)
