6

The DAVIDSONIAN, October 4, 1916

PLANS ARE BEING MADE
FOR NEW GYMNASIUM

Mr. Robert Smallwood, a well known
architect of New York, and a Davidson
alumnus, was here last week to discuss
plans with Dr. Martin for the construc-
tion of the new $25,000 gymnasium.
As soon as Mr. Smallwood completes
the plans the work of building the gym-
nasium is expected to begin. The plans
will be submitted to the executive com-
mittee this month, and they will also
decide at that time the date for the be-
ginning and completion of the work, and
whether the building shall be built under
the immediate direction of a contractor
or by local talent connected with the
college.

According to the tentative plans, the
main entrance will be directly to the
rear of the Chambers building, with the
first floor or basement nearly on the
ground level. On this floor will be a
swimming pool, shower baths, dressing
rooms, lockers, and probably a class
room,

The main entrance will be on the sec-
ond floor, and on cither side will be
offices. Gymnasium and dressing room
will be on this floor. The third floor
will have apartments for instructors, a
large club room, and a class room.

FIRST MAGAZINE SOON.

All the Davidson men will be inter-
ested to hear that the Magazine will
soon come out. It went to press the
second of the month and should be ready
for distribution in about two weeks. Un-
der the editorship of L. A. Chambliss,
the Magazine this year promises to be
one of the best that the college has
known. It will be completely changed
in appearance, and promises a great im-
provement over the old Magazine. In
addition to the regular contents it will
contain special articles on education and
articles of interest on college life at Dav-
ison. Added to these features will be a
new department, a Book Review, which
promises to add much interest to the
Magazine. It is the wish of the editor
that all the students will join him in
helping to make the Magazine have the
most successful year it has ever experi-
enced,

NEW BOOKS IN LIBRARY.

During the past summer one hundred
and eighty-five new books were added to
the library, and also a number of old
ones were rebound. Of this nimber
about sixty are bound magazines. The
usual number of new works of fiction
have been added.

Among the books added are: Caliban,
Mackaye; Best Short Stories of 1916,
O’Brien; Birds and Man, Hudson;
With Americans Past and Present, Jus-
serand; Character and Temperament,
Jastrow; Woodrow Wilson, Ford;
Book of Princeton (verse) Noyes; De-
sert, Van Dyke; Mountain, Van Dyke;
Opal Sea, Van Dyke; How to Live.
Fisher and Fisk.

The last named is one that every Dav-
idson man should read. “The purpose

of this book is to spread knowledge of|Saturdav with A. & M., in Charlotte.
individual hygiene and thus to promote|Coach Fetzer, in an interview Monday

the aims of the Life Extension Insti-
tute,” by whom it has been approved.

To date the total amount subscribed
by the students to the support of Rev.
W. P. Parker, Davidson's missionary in
Korea, is $578. It is hoped that the
goal of $600 will be reached before the
close of the campaign.

Mrs. ‘T. W. Lingle went to Raleigh
Monday morning to attend a meeting
of the executive committee of the North
Carolina Conference for Social Service,
of which President Graham, of the Uni-
versity of North Carolina, is chairman.

ANNUAL FALL CAMPAIGN

° We are always glad to
(Continued from page 1) WE Appreciate serve you. Drink at

Without attempting to go into any Our Fountain. Pre-
detailed account of any of Mr. Houn- YOUR scriptions compounded
shell’s talks, we might consider a few of with the best drugs by

them in brief outline form. In his open a registered pharmacist.

ing address Friday morning, Mr. Houn- p a t ron ag e

shell paid Davidson a very high compli-
ment by quoting a statement made by

one of his friends, Mr. Fletcher S. Ine Rexall Store WHITE DRUG CO.

Brockman, to the effect that if the world
knew of the Christian atmosphere prev-
alent here at Davidson, our dormitories

could not begin to hold our successive
Freshman classes. Then he went on to DA V ID SON Co LLEGE
say that, as is true of all colleges, there

is still much room for improvement, and, DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

as a representative of the Student Vol-
unteer Movement, he pointed out the
three movements this organization is try-

ing to place in the hearts of each and
every one of us, namely: (1) the build-
ing of character, for men so equipped orou

are in great demand; (2) the highest
intellectual training; and (3) the ren-

dering at every opportunity of the very
highest service ourses

At the evening service Mr. Hounshell
disclosed the most destructive force in
college life against which we must con-

‘nd— h. He stated thi :
than one half of the men in colleges ars WELL EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

being ruined and deprived of their real
Boost the ATHLETIC Association

worth and value by this one evil. The

cry thruout the world at this time ts:
By Purchasing Your Athletic
Goods and College Pennants

“Where is the true man?” and for us to
At

be able to answer this call, we must lead

a careful ever-day life so as to enable
us to stand up under the many sudden
Best Line of
e
Tennis Goods, Foot Ball

pressures brought to bear upon us.
Clothes, Pennants, Etc.

In his other talks Mr. Hounshell
pointed out the need of our accepting the
will of God in preference to our own.
He showed how no man can attain his
highest and best in life without being a
Christian, and no matter what our life's
work shall be, we. have all to gain by
making the will of Christ dominant in
our lives. The hurry and scurry of our
present age is mainly because men, in all
their pleasures, are still blindly secking
satisfaction which can be met with only
thru Christ. Confession, he said, is the
one way of removing all difficulties in
our way, and this is an easy matter if we
will only trust in God.

The Y. M. C. A. is to be heartily
congratulated on securing such efficient
leaders as Mr. Hounshell and Mr, Mor-
ton, We are sure that the spiritual
needs on the campus have been met with
and satisfied to a large degree.

DAVIDSON SHOWS UP WELL

(Continued from page \) Boy S !
Russell for McKay, Calvert for Rus- Cc O F e
sell, Stewart for Blakey, Carnic for ome to ur ountain
Goodwin, Leach for Carnick, Wage- Y D e k
knight for White, Pace for Carrington. F
Davidson: Shaw for Finlay, Crouch for or our rin S
Shaw, Pharr for Grey, Paisley for

® e
Pharr, Lawson for Flowers, Black for Tobacco Cigars Cigarettes
McAlister, Burns for Laird.
THE A. & M. GAME And Everything in DRUGS and STATIONERY
afternoon, declined to make any fore-

The Student Body is looking forward
with a great deal of interest to the game

Jetton Drug Co.
casts in regard to the game, but says the
present indications are that the squad e . e
will be in much better shape than they U nited Motor Lines H otel

were for the Virginia game. The team

has not been picked yet, but about twen- 4
ty-five men will be taken to Charlotte. Regular Lines ( e n t r a ]

COMPARATIVE SCORES Between
OF SATURDAY'S GAMES| Charlotte and Statesville CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Carolina, 20; Wake Forest, o. We cater to special trips for|Frank P. Morton, Manager
Clemson, 7; Furman.
A&M, 13: Roanoke, 3. students SPECIAL RATES TO
Georgia, 6; Citadel, o. L.. Patterson, College Representative DAVIDSON MEN
