The DAVIDSONIAN

Vol. Il.

Junior Speaking
Proves Big Suceess

Queens College Glee
Club Here Monday

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON. N. C.. MARCH 1, 1916.

Social and Personal

items of the Town

No. 20.

Basket Ball Season
Comes to a Close

Speeches, Gym Exhibit, Concert| A Fine Entertainment Promised By |Past Week Was One of Interest) Statesville Y. M. C. A. and Univer-

and Receptions Are Enjoyed.

REPS ANNOUNCED.

EUMENEAN SOCIETY
L. H. Eikel J. K. Hobson
W. Y. Sayad

PHILANTHROPIC SOCIETY
S. T. Henderson W. H. Neal
J. C. Paisley

One of the most successful Junior
Speaking exercises in the history of the
college came to its close Jast Saturday
evening. Many friends from various
sections came in on every train Friday
and Saturday, to hear their sons and
friends deliver their orations.

About forty-eight men of the Junior
class delivered orations on live and up-
to-date subjects. On account of the pres-
ent war conditions the majority of the
speeches were of a political and scientific
nature. There were a few exceptions,
however, to this rule, speeches that de-
serve special notice. Among these might.
be mentioned, L. H. Fikel, W. H. Neal.
W. Y. Savad and S. R. Keesler. Kikel
delivered a masterful speech on ‘The
True American,” which proved to be
William Jennings Bryan. > Neal spoke
very interestingly on “Phe Man of the
Hour,” who was easily recognized a-
Woodrow Wilson. Sayad explained
very forcibly the conditions of Islam in
the great war. Keesler, in his speech
“All For One and One For All,” vers
ably presented the need and the claim-
of Pan-Americanism.

GYM EXHIBIT.

Saturday afternoon at 4:30 o’clock the
gymnasium team presented the following
program to an_ attentive audience.
Tumbling, horse. parallel bars, elephant.
horizontal bar, pyramids.

Throughout the performance — the
house was kept laughing by Russell Min-
ter as Charley Chaplin, “Madame”
Townsend and the diminutive clown,
Courtney McConnell.

The work of the team on the parallel
bars and in tumbling was the best.

The whole team turned dazzling flyers
that greatly pleased the audience. Shane
and Young did good work in this, while
Porter “starred” on the springboard.

On the parallel bars, Charley Chaplin
was again the feature. He performed
many difficult feats and at the same time
kept up his fun.

ORCHESTRA CONCERT.

On Saturday night the Davidson Or-
chestra and Glee Club rendered a very
entertaining and somewhat amusing con-
cert. Nothing but praise has been heard
on every side for the charming manner
in which the boys carried off the evening,
rendering generous encores to the hearty
applause of the enthusiastic audience.
Owing to the fact that time was limited,
some of the program had to be omitted.
but no regret was felt on this score since
the vacancy was more than made up by
the exquisite singing of Miss Rosa Hill.
of Greenville, S. C., and the ridiculous

(Continued on page 4)

Management of Annual.

The editorial stati of Quips and
Cranks has made arrangements with the
Queens College Choral Club for a con
cert at Davidson on next Monday night
March 6, at 8 o'clock. ‘The club this
year consists of thirty-one members, and
has been trained under the personal di-
rection of Mrs. Coral Baker, head of
the music department at Queens. ‘This
organization has met with splendid suc-
cess wherever it has appeared by reason
of excellent training and ability. “The
club is larger this vear than last and the
program is probably the best ever put
on by Queens College.

This entertainment is given under the
auspices of the management of the An
nual,

PLAN FOR MILITARY
‘TRAINING AT DAVIDSON

A plan is being, discussed to introduce
at Davidson a department of Military
Science. “The plan does not include the
placing of any portion of the student
body under military rule, nor the intro-
ducing of a military feature to college:
but is designed as a branch of the funtor
Applied Mathematics course. ft would

be artillery training only, and would in
clude the study of trajectories, fortifica-
tions, etc., in reality a branch of military

engineering. If successful, the course
will make it possible for students to be-
come members of the Officer’s Reserve
Corps, .in position to command in event
of a declaration of war.

The present status in’ this country
places non-college men in a better posi-
tion to absorb a knowledge of military
tactics and practices than college men:
and this scheme is designed to place the
college men, who are better qualified to
lead, in the position to do so, It is nat
a militarist policy, therefore, but rather
one of preparedness, “The present war
has shown that a large percentage of the
loss of life has been due to misdirected
commands, and_ collegiate instruction in
the tactics would go far to prevent such
a catastrophe.

The course, if adopted, would be un-
der the control of the government, prob-
ably in charge of a commissioned officer.
and would necessarily be thorough. It
would be an elective ticket. with regular
credit given, and would be a valuable
asset to the mathematics department.

NEW CLUB IS ORGANIZED.

There was recently organized on the
campus a club known as the Order of
St. Cecilia, which is a successor to the
old German club. Present plans include
a dance to be given in Charlotte after
commencement. The officers elected are:
E. P. Nisbet, president; A. S. Tomp-
kins, Jr., vice-president; W. L. Law,
Jr... manager and Cc. K.
Schwrar, secretary.

treasurer ;

The Pi Kappa Phi fraternity hall is
being completely remodeled and refur-
nished. When finished it will be one of
the most attractive halls on the Hill.

and Enjoyment.

‘The committee appointed by the Pres-
byterian laymen to do something in the

interest of the town boys is preparing al crate.

ball ground for them on callege property.
in the rear of the residences of Professors

Fulton and Lingle. ALL play on) this by tl

ground will be under the supervision of
some person appointed by the committee.
Certain times will be reserved for the
bovs under twelve years of age. Work
on the field is being done under the sup
ervision of Dr. Arbuckle.

Dr. W. L. Lingle (92). of Union
Theological Seminary, and President ot
the Board of “Vrustees of Davidson Cal
lege, will speak twice next Sunday in the
Presbyterian church. “Phe topic of his
evening address is “How We Got Our
English Bible.”

Mr, “Pat” Johnson, who for a num-
her of vears has represented the Amer
ican ‘Vobaceo Company in Asiastic “Pur

sity of N. C. Defeat Locals.

STATESVILLE GAME,

Davidson lost her last game of the
sville series on the Statesville court
last ‘Tuesday night by the score of 36 to
28. “The locals were badly handicapped
vw absence of Hengeveid, although
Younger played a good game -at centre.
He was lacking only in inches, and this
disadvantage gave Statesville the jump
on Davidson, which told in their favor.
Reese and Wood starred for Davidson,

Reese especially playing a fine — floor
game. “he line-up:

Davidson, Position. Statesville.
King. ... 02... Forward ....... Guy
Wood. ....... Forward .... Newman
Younger. ..... Centre... . Etheridge
Reese... 0.0... Guard 2... Overcash
Walker... 0... Ciauard 2... 8. Brady

CAROLINA GAME.
The local basket ball season was closed
Friday night when Davidson met the
University af North Carolina on the

key, with headquarters at Samsoun, on] Statesville court: for their second game.
the Black Sea. is visiting relatives at]The game was won by Carolina, 31 to

Davidson.

*

It was a fast, scrappy game from
Both teams played excel-

2I.
start to finish,

Mrs. Baker, of Savannah, Ga,, moth-}lent ball, and the lead fluctuated trom

er of FL H. Baker (117), was a guest otlone to the other with monotonous regu-

Dr. and Mrs, Martin dtring Junior | larity.

Speaking.

Miss Mildred Johnson, a student at} scored more than half ot
Converse College, is at the home of herfpaints.

mother, recuperating from recent illness.

For Davidson, Reese and Walk-
er starred. Reese displayed his usual un-
erring ain ins shooting foul goals, and
Davidson's
Walker. guarding the doughty
Meh Long, held him to three goals, cach
of the horseshoe variety, and plaved him

Mrs. S. P. Paisley was the hostess at {completely toca standstill all) the wav

an enjovable tea on Monday afternoon | through,

He put up the best defensive

in honor of her guest, Miss Croom, of| game of the season, and was commended

Wilmington.

¥

highly for his close guarding. Henge-
veld was back in his old position at cen-

Miss Marv Jordan, of the Wildwood | tre, but his back still bothered him some,
School at Montreat, was a guest of Mrs.Jand he was unable to score his usual

‘Tl. W. Lingle for the week-end,
*

ad +

However, he added

quota of points.
For Carolina,

three to the locals’ total.

Mrs Nisbet, of Charlotte, was a guest | Johnson and Massey starred.

of Mrs. Currie last Saturday,
” ¢ *

Mrs. W. ‘bk. Dunlap, of Charlotte, | Wood

spent Monday, the 21st, with her son.
# ” *

Miss Mary Jackson, of Gastonia, is| Walker

the guest of her brother, Mr. F. L. Jack
son, on Concord street.
e s
Miss Carrie Hood is visiting Miss
Annic Payne, in Raleigh.
* *

*

”

Danidson. Position. Carolina.
King... 0... Forward ....... Long
re Forward ... . . Massey

Hengeveld. .....Centre . .
Reese(c)......Guard ...... Tennant
Guard........ Davis

CLASS FOOT BALL
TEAMS HAVE “FEEDS”

The Senior class foot ball team held

Mr. and Mrs. W. I. Henderson were} their “feed” on the night of the 21st in

the guests of Dr. and Mrs. Martin on|Edgerton’s room.

Friday.

* * +

In addition to the
team, the coaches of the other class
teams were present, and all indulged in

Mrs. J. H. Wood, of Asheville, moth-[ an hour of enjoyment.

er of A. C. Wood (°18), and Mrs. L.

The Junior team met in Zeb McMil-

White, of Statesville, are guests of Mrs.]lan’s room on the evening of Thursday,

A. Currie for a few days.

* * *

the 17th, with about twenty-five present.
After the “eats” were finished, the time

The wedding of J. M. Smith ('13)] was spent in singing college songs and
and Miss Davis, of Marion, S. C., will] in giving class yells.

take place in June.
*

* e

About twenty-five fellows took part in
consuming the Sophomore feast and in

Mr. Frank Carter. proprietor of the| giving yells and songs of all varieties.
local garage, is rapidly recovering from| This was held in Therrell’s room on the
a serious accident to his eyes, which oc-| night of the 18th.

curred recently while he was working on
a car.

Those present at the Fresh “feed” on

The wound was a very painful| the 24th enjoyed a bounteous supply of

one, disabling him for some days, and| good things to eat, and other merry-
very nearly robbing him of his eyesight. making features.
