The DAVIDSONIAN

Vol. IIL.
Finals In Debating

Contest Are Held) Soon to be Completed

Indications Point to a Splendid | First Game Is With the University} While Winston High School Suc-

Neal, Patton, Smith and Thames to
Represent Davidson.

Before a fairly large audience in
Shearer Hall, Saturday night. the finals
were held for the selection of two de-
bating teams to represent Davidson in
intercollegiate debates this spring. Eight
men, previously selected in preliminary
contests in the respective societies, con-
tested hotly for the honors. The subject
for debate was: “Resolved. ‘That the
President's Ship Purchase Bill should be
passed by Congress.”

The judges. Drs. J. M. McConnell
and Sentelle, and Professor Currie, de-
cided that W. H. Neal, J. G. Patton, F.
H. Smith and J. A. Vhames should com-
pose the teams. with L. A. Chambliss
and R. H. Ratchford as alternates.

Publication.

The Annual goes to press the last of
this month and will appear on the cam-
pus the first week in May. L. A. Mul-
len, the editor-in-chief, has some fine ma-
terial for the Annual, and he is working
in many new ideas. The volume this
vear will be a little larger than hereto-
fore, and will be entirely different.

The art staff, headed by J. F. Good.
has been increased both in members and
strength, and the work in this depart-
ment is exceedingly good.

During the past ten days the staff has
heen working dav and night on a special
process of decorating.” “Vhrough — the
courtésy of the ‘Timmons-Grady Com-
pany, of Charlotte. N. C.. the editors

L. A. Chambliss (Fu) opened the de- | were enabled to get the use of a special
bate for the affirmative, first pointing ourfinstrumenc for making finished art de-
the need of ships both in the navy asi signs. This feature alone will make the
auxiliaries and in commerce, and then|coming issue a unique one.

maintaining that the best way to remeds

Within the past few vears “Quips and

the need was by the adoption of the pro-| Cranks” has risen from an average small

posed bill.

_{ college year book ta one of the foremost

H. A. Scott (Eu) was the first speak-| college annuals in the South, and it is
er for the negative, maintaining that| credited by many as being the best in the
private industry was essential to the fu- | South.

ture development of our merchant ma-
rine, and that this would be crushed by
the ship purchase bill.

The second speaker for the afhrmative
was J. G. Patton (Fu), who showed
that our plan for preparedness. along
with the welfare of our commerce, de-
manded the passage of the hill. a
the government should not hesitate to
enter the shipping business.

R. H. Ratchford (Phi) spoke next
for the negative. He claimed that the
measure under discussion would not
build up our merchant marine, and pro-
posed other remedies for meeting the
need.

J. A. Thames (Phi). following for
the affirmative. argued that since private
interest had failed and was failing in it
duty to American shippers. that the gov-
ernment should therefore give the service
required. and pointed out the benefits
that would be derived from the passage
of the bill.

F. H. Smith (Fu) denounced the bill
as inexpedient and: unnecessary. ridiculed
it as a measure for an emergency that
did not exist, and claimed that it would
be devoid of anv good results.

D. Shaw (Phi) closed the debate for
the affirmative. showing the need for the

bill, and offering it as the best plan for}

meeting the need.

W.H. Neal (Phi). the last speaker | Sparrow.
- hat. eet yards for holding and soon lost the bafl

of the evening. argued that the

would not accomplish the purpose for} downs.

which it was introduced, and proposed in
its stead ship subsidy and other plans for
the upbuilding of American shipping.

It has been decided that Neal

and Placed the hall over the line.

NEW BOOKS FOR LIBRARY.

During January about 175 new books
were received into the Library. A num
ber of subjects iire treated by them: as

nd that] biology, biography, philosophy. German

text-books, fiction, and classics. ‘The
Collected Poems of Rupert Brooke” is
also included among the valumes. — Al-
though the young lieutenant lost his life
during the early part of the war, the
poetry he left shows that he was a gen
ius. His sonnets are equaled by none
in this generation. —

Fresh Are Champions
In Class Foot Ball

They Tie Seniors and Sophs In
This Week’s Games.

The Fresh and Seniors played to a 0-0
tie last Tuesday afternoon. One of the
features of the game was a run by Pick
ens, of the Fresh, who received the kick
ff and returned 35 yards to the Seniors’
40-yard: Hine, where he was downed bv
The Fresh were penalized 1

The Seniors were unable to
gain and the hall went hack to the Fresh.
At this time Johnson pushed his was
through the line and after a splendid run
‘This score

Thames will compose the team to debate] Was not allowed, however, the Fresh
Eiskine. This debate will be held April; having fouled by holding. “This put a
7, at Winthrop College Rock Hill, §. C.jdamper on the spirits of the first year

The subject will be the same as used;men and they

Saturday. and Davidson will unhold the the remainder of the h t 1
Ratchford will be the altern-| lied on straight foot ball, but neither side

negative.
ate for this team.

were unable to gain. For
alf both teams re-

could gain, and the half ended with the

Patton and Smith will debate Emorv | ball near mid-field.

College. at Agnes Scott. upholding the
-affirmative of the query:

“Resolved. | the first.

The second half was less eventful than
Exchanges of punts were fre-

That the British svstem of government | quent, and though the Fresh excelled in

(Continued on page 4)

(Continued on page 4)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 16, 1916.

“Quips and Cranks” —_|Foot Ball Schedule

Is Announced

of Virginia.

” “ - 7 ~ - ¢ & @ ©
. FOOT BALL SCHEDULE,
* ¥
* September 30—U. of Va. Char-
*  fottesville, Va.

a

October 7-—A. and M., Charlotte.

October 14—Georgia ‘Pech, Adianta. °

October 21—Citadel, Davidson.

October 28 — Roanoke College,
Roanoke, Va.

November 4—Furman, Greenville.

November 11—U. ot N.C. Win

*  ston-Salem, N.C.

November 18— Pending.

November 30—Clemson, Charlotte.

~

ad * *

The schedule for 1916 calls for man
hard games carly in the season: but from
the record of the Red and Black eleven
last fall it is a certainty that all of them
will be battles roval.

The University of Virginia calls for
the first game on their field in) Char-
lortesville. “This is the first time that
Davidson has met the Old Dominion
cleven in several vears, and keen interest
will be centered on this match.

A. and AE. is the second game, in
Charlotte, while the Georgia ‘Pech Yel
low Jackets will be plaved in. their nest
on October Id.

Vhe ‘Uhanksgiving game is with
Clemson, in Charlotte. “This is probably
the most welcomed of all, because the
annual game with the “Vigers has always
been close, and as they are clean sports
men, the ‘Purkey: Dav contest is sure to
be full of interest. “Phe schedule does
not call for a game with Wake Forest.
Only one date on the schedule i
pending, November 18.

Volunteers Attend
Greensboro Conference

P. B. Price, of Davidson, Elected
President.

‘Vhe Davidson delegation to the Stu-
dent Volunteer Conference at the North
Carolina State Normal, in’ Greensboro.
left here Friday at noon, On arriving in
Greenshoro the delegates went to the
Normal College, where they registered
and were assigned: different homes for
entertainment.

The conference was opened Friday bs
addresses of welcome by Dr. John A.
Tesh, in behalf of the Normal, and Miss
Rosa Blakeney, in behalf of the Normal
students. Mr. Geo. D. Rowe, of Wake
Forest, secretary and treasurer of the
Union. responded. Dr. John N. Mills,
of Washington. D. C.. then spoke on
“The Social Achievements of the Gospel
in Heathen Lands.” After the meetiny
an informal reception was givem to the
delegates, which was greatly enjoyed by
all. y

At the Saturday morning meeting Dr
D. Clay Lilly spoke on “Prayer and
Missions,” and at the business session in

(Continued on page 4)

No. 18.

Statesville Defeated
By Red and Black

cumbs to Scrub Attack.

Friday night, in a fast and = snappy
game played on the Statesville court,
Davidson took the third of a scheduled
five-game series from Statesville Y. M.
C. A. by the score of 39 to 33. “The
game was rather close, but superb passing
and superior floor work enabled the
Davidson lads to forge out abead. ‘The
outstanding feature was the foul goal
shooting of Captain Reese for Davidson.
He shot 13 out of a possible 14° fouls,
and in addition made two field goals,
totalling more than half of Davidson's
score. Woad also plaved a fine game at
forward. For Statesville, Guy and
Kimball featured. “The line-up:

Davidson. Position. Statesaille.
King... ...e. Forward . 2... Kimball
Wood. ........ Forward . 2... Newman
Hengeveld..... Centre... . Etheridge
Reese... 0... Guard oo... Overcash
Younger. ...... Guard 0.0.0.0. Guy

Substitution: Walker for Younger,
Brady for Overcash

Field goals: King 2, Wood 6, Henge-
veld 3, Reese 2. Kimball 5, Newman 1,
etheridge 5, Guy 3.) Foul goals: Reese
13, Guy 5.

WENSTON GAME.

On fast: Friday the Davidson scrub
‘basket ball team defeated the Winston-
Salem High School quintet by the score
of 2g to 9. Although the score seems
to indicate that the game was a_ rather
one sided affair, as a matter of fact, such
was not the case, for the Winston voung-
sters plaved well and fought hard, and
every point was hotly contested. At the
end of the first half, the Davidson scrubs
led by the score of 12 to 5. ‘Vhe scrubs
showed up well in the matter of passing,
but shots for goal were few and far be-
teen in comparison to the amount of
passing dane. = Nimocks shawed form,
however, and made same good, shots.

The Winston High School boys, al-
though outweighed by can average of
abour seventeen pounds, put up a splen-
did fight, and evervene remarked on the
pluck displaved in’ their game.  Crute
played an especially good game for them,
and Moore shot some nice foul goals.

The line up was as follows:

D.C. Serubs. Position. 47.8. 11. S.
Nimocks....... Forward... 0... Nash
Potts... 0.0.0... Forward... .. Moore
Williamson. ...Centre... 2... Crute
White.........Guard.. 20... Spcere
McAlister... .. Guard oo 0.0... Fulton

Substitutions—Farrington for Speere,
| Hardeock for Moore, Moore for Crute.

LECTURE FRIDAY NIGHT.

Mr. McAlister, who for the past year
has been president of the State Social
Service Organization, will give the ‘sec-
and of the series of lectures planned for
this spring. on Friday night in Shearer
Hall at 8 o'clock.

Mr. McAlister is a graduate of the
University of North Carolina. and one
of Greenshoro’'s influential citizens. For
some’ time he has been interested in so-
cial service work and was at the head of
this work in that city.
