6 The DAVIDSONIAN, November 15, 1916

plays by close margin. Folger forced
to kick, netting 40 yards. Black made
6. N.C. penalized 5 yards for off-side
on next play, making it first down.
Black made 2. R. Walker punted 45
yards out of bounds, Folger made 10
yards. Coleman made 6. Sayad threw
Tennant for loss. |
FOURTH QUARTER

Folger made 2. Folger punted 40
yards to Keesler, who fumbled. N. C.
recovered. N. C.’s ball on 22-yard line.

DAVIDSON LOSES
STATE TITLE

Prescriptions Compounded
by Registered Pharmacists

We carry a complete line of up-to-c ate
Stationery. . . Drink at our Sanitary

Fountain. . . We want to serve you.
Three line bucks netted 8 and it' was

Ihe Rexall Store WHITE DRUG Co.
fourth down and 2 to go. Tandy hawk
Tandy kicked 4 eld. ( .
Land Flowers “ind Lawson sent in for D A V ID S ON O L L E G E

Burns, Singleton and Keesler. “Tandy
kicks off to Black on 20-yard line, who ;
returns 5. Laird, Flowers and Black DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

netted 8 yards on thre line plays. R.
Walker kicked 45 yards, D. C. recover-

ing. Ball on Carolina's 25-yard line.

Laird made 5 and Lawson 3. Laird

fumbled ball on end run, N. C. recover- oroug

ing. Two line bucks netted Carolina

8 yards. Folger on tackle play ron 61

yards for touchdown. Tandy kicked

goal. Tandy kicked off to Lawson on ourses

25-yard line, who returned 8 yards.

Black made 6 yards on a fake. Lawson

dropped back and hurled a beautiful pass

which soared 30 vards down the field.

where it was grabbed on the dead run WELL EQUIPPED LABORATORIES
bv Flowers. A Carolina back was clus«

behind, but Flowers outdistanced him
and passed the goal line after a 3o-vard
tin. Flowers missed a close try at goal.
Tandy kicked off to Black on 12-yard
line, who returned 19 yards. Black lost
3 on end run, Davidson team back for
a consultation. Lawson made another

pretty pass, Boh Walker receiving it, for . . .
a gain of 9 vards.. Another pass to You like to trade with a Drug Store where

Walk ade it. firs tt, aws :
ilker made it first down, Lawson you get just what you want---where you are

made §. Two oretty passes failed by

close margin. Flowers made. it first served in the right way. We are prrticular

(Continued from page 5)

For Carolina Folger was the out-
standing star, and to him must be given
great credit. His spectacular 61-yard
tun was one of the big features of the
game. ‘Tennant proved also a consist-
ent ground gainer. Love and Crawford
played stellat games at end.

THE GAME

‘Tandy kicked off to Black, who re-
turned to jo-yard line. Black made 2,
Burns 5 and C. Walker 2 thru the
“impregnable” Carolina line, and it was
first down. C. Walker made 3, Caro-
lina being penalized 5 for off-side play.
Keesler made it first down. Burns and
C. Walker’s line plunges resulted in an-
other first down for Davidson. ‘Three
line bucks netted 9 yards, but on the
fourth Carolina held and the ball went
over. N. C.’s ball on their 38-vard fine.
A line buck failed and Folger punted
40 yards to Keesler. R. Walker punted
50 yards, well out of danger, D. C. gain.
ing to yards on the exchange of punts.
Carolina tried three line bucks which
failed to net distance. Folger kicked 45
vards to Keesler, who returned 20
vards. Carolina was judged off-side on
this play, and Captain White chose to
take the penalty, Folger kicked 45 yards,
Keesler returning 25. Burns made 6
thru line and on. the next plav made it
first down. Black went over left tackle
for gain of & vards and then bucked line
for another first down. Burns hit. the
line for g% yards. Steve Walker made
s and first down. Ball on Carolina's
12-yard line. C. Walker made 5. Burns
carried ball to g-yard line, but fumbled,
N. C. recovering. Folger punted 40
vards and Keesler fumbled, N.C. re-

We Excell in SERVICE |

covering. Folger kicked 35 yards. R.
Walker punted 4o yards out of bounds,|down on end run. A’ pass to Black about our service, and a courteous, respectful
Folger made 15 yards. Three — line made 12 vards, Laird made 5. A pass d obligi is al ft d

to Flowers failed and as ball went over and obliging manner is always proffered you.

bucks netted Carolina another — first
down. Folger made 1, “‘Feanant 2. D.
C. off-side, penalized 5. On next play
N. C. penalized 15 yards for holding.
Tennant failed to gain on fake kick for-
mation. Forward pass netted 10 yards.
Fourth down, 13 yards to go. Folger

line on bounce officials ruled it a touch- , ,
back. and it was Carolina's ball on 20- Make your Drug Store shopping pleasant by coming here
=,

vard line. Carolina made to vards on
JETTON DRUG COMPANY

line bucks and the game was over.
Vhe line-up:
CAROLINA. POSITION. DAVIDSON,

missed pass, but N. C. recovered. Folg-|Love........... LE... . R. Walker

er kicked 45 yards, Burns made 6 and Ramsay......... LT... ee. Shaw! __when in Mooresville Visit—

C. Walker hit tackle for first down.|Grimes......... WG... eee. Grey ° °

Ball on N. ©.’s go-yard line. Keesler Tandy (C)....,.C... B. White (C) The Miller-White M. H. GOODRUM

made 3. Burns tore off his usual 6 Harrell tenets RG see a Sayad D Cc

yards. Burns made it first down. Kees- Fayloe.. 0.2.6... R1 tae I’. White rug ompany & COMP A NY

ler fumbled, N. C. recovering. Folger]|Crawford. ...... RE ..... Singleton Special Attention to Davidson Men

made 8 yards ‘lennant made it first] Johnson. ........QB...... Keesler | ————___——— —_—_—

down. Carolina failed to gain thru line Bellamy.........LDH ......, Black Davidson Pr essing Club

and failed on two forward passes. D.|Folger.......... RH... . C. Walker B Li

C’s ball. R. Walked punted 45 yards,| Pennant........ Lt} rr Burns 6 Suits Cleaned & Pressed $1 00 est Line of
FE

Score by periods:
Carolina. .. 0 0 0 10—Total 10 DRY CLEANING A SPECIALTY
Davidson . . 0 0 0 6—Total 6 ALL WORK GUARANTEED

Folger returning 10. Successive line
bucks netted first down. Carolina failed
in hitting line, and tried two passes,
which failed, the ball going over on
downs. Quarter up.

THIRD QUARTER

Grey kicked off to Folger, who re-
turned 24 yards. Folger lost 3. “Ten-
nant failed. Folger kicked 50 yards,
ball rolling ever goal. D. C.’s ball 20-
yard line. C. Walker made 4. R.
Walker punted 45 yards out of danger.
After two plays Folger punted, ball roll-
ing to D. C’s 5-yard line, where Kees-
ler recovered it. Black made 6 thru left
tackle. R. Walker punted 45 yards to
Folger, who fumbled and Grey fell on
hall. D. C.’s ball on their 35-yard line.
R. Walker kicked 45 yards to Folger,
who fumbled. Grey recovered the ball
on 25-yard line, but officials ruled that
Davidson man had tackled Folger when
he did not have ball, and gave the ball
to N, C. and gave them first down, This
decision can be questioned.

Folger punted tv D. C.’s 25-yard line
out of bounds. Black tore through right
tackle for 8 yards. Burns made it first
down. Black on a fake gained 18 yards.
Burns made 5 thru center. C. Walker
made 3. Ball goes over after two line

General

Merchandise

in Town

Summary: Referee, Henderson, Ohio

wesevan. Umpire, Hodgson, V. P. I. —

Headlinesman, Broughton, .Wake For- R d d Bl k
est. Timekeepers, Moore, Davidson. and € an ac
Wright, Carolina. Time of periods, 15 C f Z e ust Opened
minutes each. Substitutions: Carolina. a e€ e

Williams for Johnson; Coleman for ;:
Folger; Ranson for Love: Folger for (One door above Scofields)

Coleman; Watkins for Tennant; Fitz- ryt ‘

simmons for Bellamy; Love for Ran- Eve hing New
son; Black for Watkins; Barton for] * lad

Grimes: Proctor for Crawford. David- Smiley Washam, Mor. & Prop.
son: Elliott for T. White; Laird for Hours: 7:30 A. M. to 10:00 P. M.
Burns: Flowers for C. Walker: Law-|- ALSO MOTOR SERVICE
son for Keesler; King for R. Walker: .

Paislev for Grey. Touchdowns, Folger

and Flowers. Goal from touchdown, U a i @ d | of or L i nes H dQ t e ]

Tandy. Field goal, Tandy.

—————_— Regular Lines |
of thee ine held ie fe C entr a

Michane « room. The club enjoyed one Between
of the biggest “layouts” ever seen on . TE
such an occasion. All were in jovous Charlotte and Statesville CHARLOT N.C.

anticipation of the re-election of Vir- s :
ginia’s greatest living statesman. After We cater to special trips for Frank P. Morton, Manager

an enjoyable time the meeting broke up students , SPECIAL. RATES TO
to hear the election returns. L. 8. Patterson, College Representative DAVIDSON MEN

JUST RECEIVED
EXTENSIVE LINE

King Quality Shoes
New Models

LET US-+FIT YOU

