The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year
by the Students of Davidson College.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS

Eprrortat Boarp.
P. B. Price........... Editor-in-Chief
J. A. Thames....... Managing Editor
. H. Stone.......Assignment Editor

R. H. §
T. J. Mitchell.........Alumni Editor

THE STAFF.

R. H. Ratchford
A. P. Saunders

J. R. Woods
H. B. Fraser

MANAGEMENT.

_H. Neal........Business Manager
Paisley..... Circulation Manager

C.

. E. Fowlkes

. H. Patterson
. C. Bellingrath

Pans

Assistant Managers

7)

Tue Davinsonian will be glad to
print all signed communications pertain-
ing to matters of interest.

Eatered as second-class matter at the Postoffice,
Davideon. N. C.

Subscription, $1 Per Year

COLLEGE ACTIVITIES.

In what particular phase of college
activity can I accomplish the most both
for myself and the college? ‘This is a
vital question and one which all of the
new students should thoughtfully con-
sider. Much valuable time has been
lost by students because, after they had
without due consideration, possibly, de-
cided to devote their time to one phase
of college activity, they found that their
talents better fitted them to engage in
another.

The Davidson faculty and the stu-
dent body, as a whole, have always con-
sidered the student's fidelity to college
duties—to his studies—of the first im-
portance. If, after the student has per-
formed that duty well, he has ample
spare time, he could and should concern
himself with some special phase of col-
lege activity. The word “special” is
here used because the average student,
after he has done his academic work,
cannot succeed, to any appreciable ex-
tent, in more than one of the outside
college duties. For example, the young
aman who is a good student and good in
literary work, has not the time, even if
he had the talent, to excel in music and
on the athletic field. Would it not be
good advice, then, to the new men, that
they care first for their work, and, after
doing that, select some college activity
and devote their best, both of energy
and of time, to it.

Whether as a member of an athletic
team, or as a member of the Orchestra
and Glee Club, or whether in a literary
line, one may receive training which
will be invaluable in after life. The
self-possession and spirit of co-operation
exhibited by the athlete, the delicate
sense of harmony shown by the Glee
Club member, are traits of character
well worth striving for.

The literary society, not with the
prestige among college students which
it once enjoyed, is still the best -friend
of the college, and offers unlimited op-
portunities to the boy who is willing to
strive. The statement by President
Wilson, while standing on the veranda
of the Eumenean Society Hall last
Spring, that in the Eu. Society he had
attempted to make speeches and failed,
is significant to all who have fears of
failing in literary work. President Wil-
son, once an average society member, is

The DAVIDSONIAN, August 25, 1916

now hailed asthe nation’s greatest Pres-
ident and Administrator. The argu-
ment, new students, that you are nu
speaker will not hold. It is only an
argument for your joining a literary
society.

The two literary societies at David-
son—the Eumenean and Philanthropic
—will welcome you as members if you
are willing to work. R.

THE RIGHT DECISION.

The educational spirit is abroad in
the land, and thousands of young men
and women will decide within the next
week or two—cither for their good or
otherwise—whether in the program of
their life a college education will have
a place. The emoluments of commer-
cial life to some; the pursuits of pleasure
to others; laziness (genus hookworm)
to still another class is in constant strife
against the ambitious desires that spring
up in the breast of every normal boy
and girl. To the army of healthy and
vigorous youths who have a college edu-
cation within their reach, and this in-
cludes almost every one, we would say
that ten people today regret that they
didn’t go to college to one who regrets
that he did go.

The educated man is prepared to live
better, think better, serve better. Let
the good impulse have its way and hap-
pily will you reflect on the day of such
a decision.

AN AUDITING BOARD.

Under the blanket fee system which
was passed last spring and which will
be inagurated with the opening of col-
lege, there is provided a uniform set of
books in which the managers and treas-
urers may keep their accounts, also uni-
form blanks for. the making of reports
to che auditing board. “There will be
in effect also a set of rules governing the
duties of the above officers of cach of
the student branches which come under
the blanket fee.

As soon as possible, the managers and
treasurers of these organizations are, re-
quested to see the chairman of the board
and get the above books and_ report
blanks, together with copies of the rules,
and explanations of the manner in which
the accounts are to be kept. Beginning
with the first day of college an accurate
record of all transactions must be kept
and the above officers are cautioned not
to let this matter slip their attention.

CuHairnmMan or Avoit Boarp.

PUBLIC LECTURES.

Under the supervision of the Faculty
Committee on Public Lectures, arrange-
ments are being made to give a series of
lectures at Davidson this year. These
will be given by members of the Fac-
ulty, and well known speakers from
other places. A similar plan was adopt-
ed last year, and the lectures were in-
teresting and well attended, and it is
hoped that the series this year will be
even better.

In addition to these lectures, another
series will be given semi-monthly during
the fall by members ‘of the faculty,
visitors and selected members of the up-
per classes, dealing with subject of espe-
cial interest to the students beginning
their college course, such as campus life,
college honor, study, hygiene, etc. At-
tendance upon these lectures by the
Freshmen will be required. —

JUNIOR GERMAN OFFERED.

It was announced in class last spring
and printed in the catalog that German
2(A) (Junior German) would not be
offered this year. Recently, however,
Professor Withers has been secured as
associate professor in Modern Langu-
ages. Professor Withers will teach Jun-
ior French and Professor Lingle Junior
German.

COLLEGE PUBLICATIONS.

College students cannot all agree as
to which is the most popular study which
they are pursuing. ‘Lhere is, then, no
universally popular branch of — study.
‘Neither do college men agree as to
which is the most profitable field of en-
deavor for activities as a parallel with
collegiate work. Many think that foot-
ball presents the greatest field for
achievement. Others contend that base-
ball offers greater inducements. Some
prefer the Orchestra and Glee Club;
others choose literary work—debating,
writing for the college magazine, an-
nual, or newspaper, and other phases of
endeavor which present themselves to
the energetic, ambitious college student.

All of these present themselves in
shining array at Davidson. There is
something which will meet the demand
of almost every temperament. It is not
only the privilege, but the duty of the
college student to enter into these activi-
ties with great “pep.” He owes this to
his college and to himself. .

Of all these doubtless the departments
of literary work are more accessible to
everyone. It is possible for all to make
contributions to the publications, while
it*is impossible for everyone to make a
star play on the athletic field.

Coming with the Blanket System
comes a better Davidson College Maga-
zine. Heretofore contributions were
received for this publication in larger
part from members of the two literary
societies. It was thought to be a prud-
uct of the societies and was not sup-
ported by the student body. Under its
new regime it comes as a mirror of the
literary tastes and appreciations of the
college asa whole. “This offers manifold
opportunities to improve the latent lit-
erary talent. There is nothing which
stirs the imagination in a_ productive
way more than creating a short story or
a poem.

Then comes the Annual—Quips and
Cranks—ranked as one of the best in
the South. This management, too, in-
vites every Davidson student to co-oper-
ate with them in putting out the best
publication possible.

THe Davivsontan is a complete
record of the happenings on the campus
and of interesting events among the
alumni. It also carries news concern-
ing other colleges. It stands for advanc-
ing the cause of Davidson College by
strengthening the tie which binds the
alumnus and his alma mater. It is a
fact that THe Davipsontan is one of
the most representative of college papers.
The editorial staff invites every student
to have his name on their assignment
list.

There is no better parallel work in
connection with Freshman English than
doing work for these publications. They
work in perfect harmony. It is the abil-
ity to put knowledge into practice that
counts. Students who enter this field of
work not only benefit themselves, but
are doing a work which helps the col-
lege and makes the alumni grateful.

R. H. S.

Due to an almost inexcusable over-
sight on the part of the editors, no men-
tion was made in the commencement
issue of THe Davipsontian last Spring
of the awarding of the Grvphon Medal
which is presented annually to that
member of the Senior class who, in the
estimation of the Gryphon Order, has
done most for the college during that
year. That coveted prize was awarded
last commencement to J. P. Williams,
than whom no other has had the welfare
of the student body and the college more
at heart. Williams was president of
the Student Body and was instrumental
in having a number of important re-
forms in student life instituted at Dav-
idson. He is now working in connec-
tion with the Bureau of Municipal Re-
search, with headquarters in New York.

COLLEGE DIRECTORY.

Below is given a partial list of the
men who will be in charge of the stu-
dent activities at Davidson this year, so
far as they have been elected:

Student Body: S. R. Keesler, pres-
ident; F. Hengeveld and J. M. Black,
vice-presidents; J. W. McAlister, secre-
tary-treasurer.

Y. M. C. A.: T. P. Mitchell, pres-
ident; P. B. Price, vice-president; G.
C. Bellingrath, secretary; J. R. Woods,
treasurer. Cabinet: E. P. Nisbet, F.
H. Baker, S. T. Henderson, S. R. Kees-
ler, A. B. Reese, Jr., D. 1. McKeithan,
L. A. Chambliss, J. A. Thames, F.
Hengeveld.

Literary Societies: | Eumenean—L.
H. Eikel, president; J. R. Woods, vice-
president; E. A. Solomons, secretary ;
A. R. Craig, treasurer; T. J. Mitchell,
reviewer. Philanthropic—S. T. Hen-
derson, president; ‘W. C. Cumming,
vice-president; R. D. Hall, secretary;
J. A. Thames, treasurer; R. H. Ratch-
ford, critic.

Class Organizations: Class of '17—
D. 1. McKeithan, president; B. D. Rod-
dey, vice-president; C. R. Jenkins, sec-
retary-treasurer. Class of “18—J. R.
Woods, president; (Other officers have
not yet been elected). Class of '19—L.
B. Dougherty, president; J. Pickens,
vice-president; H. G. Williamson, sec-
retary-treasurer.

Football: B. N. White, captain; A.
B. Reese, manager; J. W. Clark and
R. C. Jones, assistant managers.

Publications: | Davidsonian—P. B.
Price, editor-in-chief; J. A. Thames,
managing editor; W. H. Neal, business
manager; J.C. Paisley, circulation
manager.

Davidson College Magazine—Staft:
L. A. Chambliss, editor-in-chief; W. H.
Neal, W. C. Cumming, ‘I’. J. Mitchell ;
R. H. Ratchford, business manager; H.
B. Fraser, assistant business manager.

Quips and Cranks—Andrew Brown,
editor-in-chief; S. ‘T. Henderson, busi-
ness-manager; J. A. Thames and R. P.
Richardson; assistant business managers.

Student Council: §. R. Keesler, E.
P. Nisbet, S. ‘I’. Henderson, P.  B.
Price, W. Y. Sayad, J. R. Woods, A.
P. Saunders, J. L. Fowle, L.  M.
‘Thomas, L. B. Doughterty, G. H. Row-
land, L. M. Johnston.

NEW SCHEDULE
OF RECITATIONS

The new schedule of recitations will
be found on page three of this issue of
Tue Daviwsonian. All students are
requested to go over it carefully and
select their subjects so as to conform to
the groups required by the catalogue
(pp. 64 and 65) and prevent conflicts.
Bring your copy of the schedule under-
lined in pencil and present it to the
proper recorder when you matriculate.
This will save your time and his. The
recorder will, of course, be glad to help
you solve any difficulties which may
arise and take all the time necessary, but
you will help materially if you will out-
line the work as far as you can. The
student is held responsible for seeing
that he is electing the studies which
properly lead to graduation and also
avoiding all conflicts.

NEW COLLEGE HOME.

Plans have been drawn and accepted
for a new college home which, when
finished, will be occupied by Dr. M. E.
Sentelle. The new structure, ‘which
will be of a bungalow type, will occupy
a part of the vacant lot at the comer
of Concord avenue and Main street.
Work on the new building has already
begun.

To the new students: The College
Catalogue gives definite and detailed in-
formation about Davidson. Have you

read it?
