Ihe DAVIDSONIAN, November 29, 1916

A TEST IN SPELLING.

The following is a list of words most
commonly misspelled, which was col-
lected by C. Alphonso Smith, Professor
of English, University of Virginia. Re-
cently, Professor Fulton used this list
on his Freshman English class. There
were 58 words, and 137 papers were
handed in. The figure following each
word shows the number of times that
particular word was misspelled by 137
first-year men: all right, 86; although,
9; chief, 10; decision, 29; describe, 9;
different, 2; disappear, 32; disappoint,
35; dying, 18; embarrass, 81; exagger-
ate, 66; finally, 20; goddess, 25; gram-
mar, 19; independent, 25; infinite, 17;
insistent, 46; intellectual, 33; its, 59;
laborator, 41; Latin, 2; led, 35; liter-
ary, 16; lose, 46; noticeable, 40; occas-
ionally, 53; occurred, 82; pamphlet, 30;
perform, 15; planned, 31; possess, 44;
prejudice, 50; principal, t1; principle,
12; privilege, 70; profession, 18; prom-
ised, 7; pursue, 49; receive, 13; recom-
mend, 35; rhythm, 106; ridiculous, 46;
sentence, 3; separate, 41; shepherd, 44;
siege, §3; stationery, 60; surprise, 38;
symmetry, 68; too, 22; thoroughly, 39;
though, 5; thought, 1; through, 7; ty-
ranny, 53; until, 10; villain, 69; writer,

The above results show that — the
words most aften misspelled were:
rhythm, 106; ali right, 86; occurred, 82;
embarrass, 81; privilege, 70; villain,
69; symmetry, 68.

No word was correctly spelled by
everybody. Nobody correctly spelled
every word; 2 missed 2; 6 missed 3; 1
missed 4; 7 missed 5; § missed 6; 9
missed 7: 6 missed 8; 6 missed 9; 9
missed 10. Among those bringing up
the rear, 1 missed 9; 3 missed 30; 2
missed 31; 2 missed 33; t missed 36;
1 missed 38.

In addition to the above list of words
the following proper names were given,
and missed as many times as is desig-
nated by the numbers following the re-
spective words: Burns's (possessive).
119; Edgar Allan Poe (the middle name
being the strategic word), 104; Macau-
lay, 113; Thackeray, 116.

The above lists of words should be
adopted and used by every public school
teacher as a part of the “preparedness”
in spelling of prospective college stu-
dents. They are, also, good lists for
anyone to look over and remember. If
you do not believe they are, just try to
spell them without study.

NEW BOOKS IN LIBRARY.

Several books of more than passing
interest have’ been added to the Library
recently. Those interested in literary
subjects will find “How to Read” (Ker-
foot), and “Poe’s Helen” (Ticknoc), a
glimpse into the life of the weird poet;
“English Poets and the National Ideal”
(Selincourt) shows what Shakespeare.
Milton, Wordsworth and later poets
have done for the cause of English na-
tionality; “Kitchener's Mob” (Hall) is
a vivid account of the origin of the large
English army now in the field. Two
interesting novels are Well’s “Mr. Brit-
ling sees it Thru,” an English = war
novel, and Meridith Nicholson’s “Proof
of the Pudding.”

Other new books are: ‘Social Life
in England” (Jackson); “The Athen-
ian Empire” (Cox), as well as two
books presented by the Polity Club:
“The Restoration of Europe” (Fried)
and “Nationalism, War and Society”

(Krehbeel).

The committee of the Faculty work-
ing on the question of a readjustment of
the Commencement program will report
shortly.

A. C. Wood, '18, went to New York
Saturday night to visit his brother.

tered five men each.

current topics were discussed during the

over to Mrs, H. B. Arbuckle, who read}
an entertaining and splendidly prepared

ject she read “Vhe Man Who Will Be

HARVARD GLEE CLUB
TO VISIT CHARLOTTE

Prescriptions Compounded
by Registered Pharmacists

Under the auspices of the Grand
Opera Music Festival Association, at
Charlotte, the Harvard Glee, Guitar
and Mandolin Clubs, the Male Quar-
tet, and heads of all the departments of
Harvard’s college life will appear in
Charlotte at the Academy of Music in
concert the night of December 22nd.

Following the concert a big dance
will be given either at the Selwyn Hotel
or the Manufacturers’ Club, at which
time members of society of Charlotte
and the surrounding sections will be
present.

The entire delegation of Harvard
students will number fifty-five men. The
personnel will include not only mem-
bers of the different musical organiza-
tions, but the captains of the various
athletic teams and student heads of all
of the college activities will be present.

We carry a complete line of up-to-date
Stationery. . . Drink at our Sanitary
Fountain. . . We want to serve you.

The Rexall Store WHITE DRUG CO.
DAVIDSON COLLEGE

DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

Thorough

Courses

DAVIDSON REPRESENTED
IN CROSS-COUNTRY RUN

‘The annual intercollegiate cross-coun-
try run for the State championship was
held at A. & M. College, in Raleigh,
Saturday afternoon, November = 25¢h.
Davidson was represented by Brand anu
W, C. Worth.: -Carvlina entered fous
men and A. & M. and Wake Forest en-

WELL EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

“The course was almost four and one-
half miles long. Upchurch, of Caro-
lina, won first place in) 25 minutes.
Scott, of A. & M., came second, and
Nimms, of Carolina, third. Brand and
Worth took sixth and seventh places, re-
spectively, Brand finished within ten
yards of the first man.

Carolina won first place, A. & M.
second, and Davidson third, on points.
This is the first year Davidson has been
represented in this annual event, and in
view of the fact that cross-country runs
wre not practiced here, Davidson's men
did exceedingly well.

We Excell in SER VICE

You like to trade with a Drug Store where
you get just what you want-—where you are
served in the right way. We are particular
about our service, and a courteous, respectful
and obliging manner is always proffered you.

Make your Drug Store shopping pleasant by coming here

JETTON DRUG COMPANY

BOOK CLUB MEETING.

The Book®Club met last Friday, No-
vember 2gth, at 4 o'clock, with Miss
Hattie ‘Thompson. Many _ interesting

—When in Mooresville Visit—

The Miller-White
Drug Company
Special Attention to Davidson Men
Davidson Pressing Club

6 Suits Cleaned & Pressed $1.00

DRY CLEANING A SPECIALTY
ALL WORK GUARANTEED

ur/HOTEL STONEWALL

—Charlotie, N. C.—
HOTEL BUFFINE, - Greensboro, N.C.

M. H. GOODRUM
& COMPANY

Best Line of
General

Merchandise

in Town

roll-eall. The meeting was then turned

paper on “Short Stories of Adventure
and Action.” In illustrating her sub-

King,” by Kipling, and “Ich Liebe
Dich,” by C. W. Doyle. Mrs. Currie.
as was announced, will have charge of
the subject for the next mecting.

LOCAL PEACE CONTEST
NEXT MONDAY NIG

Davidson's annual Peace Contest will
be held next Monday night, December

' JUST RECEIVED

4th, in Shearer Hall. A large number|HQTRBL YADKIN, - - Salisbury, N. C. EXTENSIVE LINE
will deliver orations this year, and the e

contest will no doubt be close and hard |HOTEL LAFAYETTE, Fayetteville, N. C. King Quality Shoes
fought, as the best speakers in college ROTEL MORGAN, - - - Danville, Va

will compete. The winner of the local ° o_o New Models

contest. will represent Davidson in a/HOTEL LEELAND, Danville, Va.
State contest next Spring, when repre-
J. P. SANDERS, President

sentatives of the several colleges of the
United Motor Lines

State will compete for a first prize of
Regular Lines

LET US FIT YOU

$75 and a second prize of $50.

Hotel
Central

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

We cater to special trips for|Frank P. Morton, Manager

Finish every day and be done with it.
You have done what you could. Some
blunders and absurdities no doubt crept
in: forget them as soon as you can. To-
morrow is a new day: begin it well and
serenely and with too high a spirit to
be cumbered with your old nonsense.
This day is all that is good and fair.
It is too dear with its hopes and aspira-
tions to waste a moment upon the yes-
terday.—Emerson.

Between
Charlotte and Statesville

SPECIAL RATES TO
DAVIDSON MEN

students
L. 8. Patterson, College Representative
