The DAVIDSONIAN

Vol. Il.

Strong Address Given
On Social Service

Mr. A. W. McAlister Delivers Lec-
ture to Students.

A large number of students and
townspeople had the pleasure of hearing
Mr. A. W. McAlister. of Greensboro,
give an interesting lecture on ‘Social
Service” last Friday night in Shearer
Hall. Dr. J. M. McConnell introduced
the speaker as an old friend of Davidson
and a prominent -citizen of Greensboro.

Mr. McAlister opened his address bv
saying: We should all ask ourselves
this question, “Am | Prepared?” 9 Mr.
McAlister showed how Christian Relig-
ion prepared for life and success in mat-
ters of adjustment and creation around
it, He continued by saving that we must
be prepared to meet the responsibilities,
and to get the knowledge. and enjoy its
benefits. ‘If this is our goal,” said the
speaker, “and if it is worth striving for,
let us get at the bottom of it and find
what relation the Christian Church
bears to our lives and the world around

”

us.

“Every century has its achievements.
This century is one of socialistic accom-
plishments."" He further stated that the
church was the great social center and
that it had failed to reach the great
masses as it should. Sixty-five per cent
of the people of the South are untouched
by the church, and only ene out of every
five of the working men are reached by
the influences of the church, The church
has chosen a method Christ never knew.
She must go down and dwell among
men. The poor and belated are ours.
let us get down to the world and not le
the world have to come to us. He point
ed out very clearly that the canditions of
the church must be greatly improved if
we accomplish the desired end we are
working for. ‘There is a part of our
every day life that the church does not
touch, it has not placed the proper em-
phasis on Christian Character, “Vhe
church must get back into the world and
redeem it, she must take her place at the
front and lead.

Hundreds of years ago it was differ-
ent. The church and state were con-
nected. Many of the serious problems
of today are the direct results of non-
interference in politics.

Children are the raw
which society makes victims.
and loafing places destroy
churches and homes have done.

Among other things. Mr. MvAlister
said in closing: “Let us take advantage
of our opportunities and responsibilities
and be ready when Christ comes unto
His own.”

material — of
The street
what the

JITNEY BUS LINE
NOW IN OPERATION

On Monday an auto bus line was
started between Mooresville and Char-
lotte. A very attractive twelve-passen-
ger Buick will make several round trips
each dav. passing through Davidson en
route. The United Moton Line is in
charge of the project. Fare from Dav-
idson to Charlotte is so cents. and from
Davidson to Mooresville, 10 cents.

The schedule’ for these trips is given
in the advertisement bv this company
which appears in this issue.

Local Bank Bought
By Davidson Men

fustitution to Be Reorganized As
State Bank of Davidson.

Announcement is made that the local
branch of the American Trust Company
is to change hands. A number of local
men, among them Drs, J. W. McCon-
nell and J. M. Douglass, and Messrs.
C. L. Grey, Cloyd Potts, M. H. Good-
rum, F. L. Jackson, and others, have
acquired control of this local bank and
will reorganize it as the State Bank of
Davidson.

A charter was applied for and has
been granted.

At a meeting of the stockholders on
Monday night the following — officers
were elected: Directors, J. 1. Douglas,
J. R. Withers, A. L. Hobbs, M. H.
Goodrum, Dr. Jno. W. McConnell, C.
A. Potts, J. Lee Sloan, C. L. Grey and
J. P. Monroe.

} By-laws were adopted.

Mr. W. H. Thompson was elected as
cashier: J. L. Douglas, president; J. Lee
Sloan, vice-president, and C. A. Potts.
assistant cashier. A finance committee

consisting of J. L. Douglas, president,
f. R. Withers and M. H. Goodrum was
also elected.

These new owners will take charge
and make the change of name and offi-
cers as soon as stock has been paid in
and transfer from American ‘Frust Co.
to the State Bank of Davidson is mage
and permission is granted by State Cor
poration Commission.

The local bank was organized as a
branch of the American Trust Company
twelve years ago, and Mr. W. H.
Thompeon has been its cashier for thi
time. It has been on a good financial
basis and has been a good investment for
its owners.

DETAILS FOR INTERCOLLEG-
IATE DEBATES ARRANGED

The debate with Emory will be held
April 17, at Agnes Scott College. De
catur, Ga,. J. G. Patton and F. LL.
Smith will uphold the affirmative of the
query: “Resolved, That the British
System of Government is More Demo
cratic than that of the United States.”
L. A. Chambliss will accompany the
team as alternate.

The query for the debate with Erskine
has been changed from “Resolved, “Phat
the President’s Ship Purchase — Bill
Should Be Passed By Congress,” to
“Resolved. That the Ship Purchase Bill
Introduced by Mr. Alcxander in the
House of Representatives, January 31.
1916, Should Be Passed By Congress.”
W. D. Dickev. of Chester, §. C.. ind
Raymond Caldwell. of Prosperity. $. C..
representing Erskine, will) uphold — the
affirmative of the query, while W. H.
Neal and J. A. Thames will fight for
the Red and Black, with R. H. Ratch-

ford as alternate.

SOPH BANQUET IN MARCH.

The Soph Banquet has been postponed
from February 21st to the middle of
March, and will be held in Charlotte.
The speakers of the occasion have not
vet been chosen.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON. N. C., FEBRUARY 23, 1916.

‘Annnal Junior Orat-

oricals Begin Friday

Forty-Eight Men Are to Deliver
Speeches at This Time.

FRIDAY.
3:00 p. m.—Speaking.
* 9:30 p. m.—Speaking. °

e SATURDAY. .

* 10:00 a. m.—Speaking. bd
* 2:30 p. m.—Speaking.
4130 p. m—Gym Team Exhibit,
* 8:00 p. m.—Concert:
* 30:00 p. m.—Receptions.
* * ’ . . rY . . - ‘

The annual Junior Oratorical Exer-
cises will begin on Friday afternoon and
continue through Saturday. “The forty-
eight men who are scheduled to speak
at this time have been divided into four
groups. .

Saturday will be a holiday for the en-
tire student body.

The program ‘for this occasion is the
usual one for these events with the ex-
ception of the Junior reception given by
the Faculty. This function will be
omitted from the events this year.

Among the guests who are expected to
be present are the following:

Misses Mary Waller, Spartanburg, 8.
C.; Mary Oliver, Kernersville, N. C.;
Alice Person and Mrs. W. ‘V. Dunlap.
Charlotte, N. C.: Misses Helen Harris.
Anderson, S. C.; Lyde Von Cannon,
Spencer, N. C.; Margaret Shaw, Foun-
tain Inn, §. C.; Gretchen) Moore, “Pry
on, N. Co; Margaret Johnson, Rueford
N.C.: Mary Eakes and Loretta Jack-
son, Decatur, Ga. Mildred Finlayson,
Mary S. Alexander, Margaret: Cowles

and Mildred) Pattersow, Charlotte, N.
C.; Nell) Horton, Winston-Salem, N.
C.; Alice Crouch, Cartersville, Ga:

Mrs. L. W. Llewelvn. Misses Katheryn
Henderson, Mary ‘Bertha Allison, Mar-
tha Davenport. Gloria Lamb and Jose
phine Whiteside, Chattanooga, “Venn.
Men Shepherd, Winston Salem, N. C.;
Flizaheth Roddey, Rock Hill, S. C.;
Aileen and Mildred Butt. of Charlotte
N. C.: Elizabeth) Magid, Richmond,
Valo: Maud Vinson and Sarah Wooten,
Davidson, N. C.;) Katherine MeDon
ald, Evelyn Blake, Helen’ Parker and
Janette Mellon. Charlotte, N.C.;
Yorke Houston, Monroe, N. C.; Eliza
heth Vout, Washington, D. C.: Evelyn
Than, Macon. Ga.; Anna Whitner and
Flizaheth Law. Rock Hill, S. C.; Cor-
dia Parker, Concord, N. C.: Bessie
Hood, Sumter, 8. C.; Margaret: Armi-
stead. Greenshoro, N. C.; Louise O' Far-
rell, Kings Mountain, N. C.; Marv Du-
Pre, Spartanburg, §. C.; Jennie Robin-
san, Easley, S. C.: Lil Currell, Colum:
bia. S. C.; Mildred Hall. Greenwood,
Miss.; Annette Monroe, Quincy, Fla.;
Gertrude Hood, Cuthbert, Ga.: Estelle
Williamson, S. C.: Polly Prentiss,
Greenville. S. C.; Miss Britton. Salis-
bury, N. C.; Margaret Anderson, Win-
ston-Salem, N. C.: Louise King. 5. C.;
Catherine Constable, Charlotte. N. C.;
Catherine McDonald. Rockingham, N.
C.: Estelle Felker and ‘Fryphena Kelly,
Dalton. Ga.; Virgil Britt. Little Rock,
S. C.; Marion Heig and Helen Slocum,
Faverteville. N. C.; Melisse Hond, Ath-
ens, Ga.: Velois Routt. Shelbyville, Ky.;
Rosalie Hill, Greenville. S. C.; Clare
Henley, Greensboro, N. C.; Mary Belk,

(Continued on page 4)

No. 19.

Red and Black Quint
Takes Four-Day Trip

Defeated by Three College Teams
—Wins Two Y. M. C. A. Games.

A. & M. GAME.

Minus the services of Eddie Childs,
who was called home, the Varsity left
Monday for a strenuous four-day road
trip. On Monday night they plaved the

first game at Raleigh, losing to A. & M.

by the score of 35 to tg. The game was
very fast. but was marred by several
fouls. “Vhe Davidson men had trouble
keeping their footing on the | slippery
floor, and could not get under way. A.
& M. showed a complete reversal of the
form they showed against’ Davidson in
their firse encounter in, Charlotte, and
plaved a good, well-balanced game. “The
stars for AL & ML were Lindsay and
‘Temple, while Wood and Reese played
the best game for Davidson, ‘The line-up:

Davidson, Position, ASS MM,
King......... Forward 2... ‘Temple
Wood. 00... Forward... .. Sumner
Hengeveld. ... Centre... 00. Lindsay
Reese(c)......Guard 2... Mason (c)
Younger. ..... Guard... 0... Josnson

Substitution: Walker for Younger.

Field Goals: Lindsay g, “Pemple 5, Sam-
ner 3. Wood 4. Mason. King and Hen-
geveld. Foul Goals: Reese 4, Lindsav
1. Referee: Clay.

TRINITY GAME,

On the following night, Tuesday, the
locals journeved to Durham, and took
on ‘Trinity College, losing by the score
of 38 to 22. The game was fast and
well contested, and Davidson played a
good, scrappy game throughout, “The
work of Reese and Wood, in particular,
stood out among the Davidson men, For
‘Trinity, Captain Martin, Anderson and
Ferrell were the stars. “Vhe line-up:

Datidson, Position. Trinity.
King. oo... (Vorward . 6... Ferrell
Wood... ...-. Forward... . Anderson
Hengeveld. ....Centre 0... . Bunting
Reese... 0.0. Guard oo... ee. Lilly
Younever. oo... Guard... .. Martin(c)

Substitutions: Walker for Reese for
Wood, Patton for Lilly. Field Goals:
Anderson 5, Ferrell 4, Martin 4. Reese
a. Wood 3, Buntine 3. Lilly and King,
Hengeveld. Foul Goals: Reese 4, Mar
tin 4. Referee: Holcomb.

U. OF N.C. GAME.

Mebane Long 20, Davidson 14. This
tells the tale of the third game of the
road trip. Tt was a case of entirely too
much Long all the way through, and
when the smoke cleared away, Carolina
was found to have the “Long” end of
the score. Personally and unassisted,
Long registered 18 voints. or everything
but one measley goal which he out of the
kindness of his heart allowed Tennant,
one of the guards, to contribute to the
cause. The game was exceedingly fast
and well) played, and Davidson casily
outclassed the ‘Tar Heels on floor work
and passing, but seemed unable to cage
the sphere at critical moments, | The
Chapel Hill papers paid the locals the
compliment of saving that they plaved
the best passing and floor game seen on
the University court this season, and that
bad shooting alone marred the Davidson
vame. Wood and Hengeveld were the
Davidson luminaries. although the entire
team played a good game, as usual. For

(Continued on page 4)
