Ihe DAVIDSONIAN, April 18, 1917

we

Literary Societies

SCHEDULE.

Debate, Saturday night, April 21st:
“Resolved, That the number of repre-
sentatives to Congress should be re-
duced.”

Eumenean-—-Affirmative: Guy, Ham-
ilton, Harrell and Keesler. Negative:
Johnson, Harris, King and Love.

Philanthropic — Affirmative: Query,
Henderson, Misenheimer, Menzies,
Tremain. Negative: Fowle, Howell,
Karriker, Corriher, Caldwell.

Monday morning, April 23rd:

Eumenean—Declamations: Harwood,
Hollandsworth, Huneycutt and Liston.
Orations: Chambliss, Cousar, J. R.
Woods and Crouch.

Philanthropic—Declamations: R. W.
Robinson, Morton, Stogner, Sample and
Wilson. Orations: Murray, W. C.
Neel, Thames and H. T. Lilly. ‘

The regular exercises of the Eumen-
ean Society were suspended Saturday
night, April 14th, and the Junior-Senior
debate preliminaries took their place.

On Monday morning, April 16, three
orations were rendered. Keesler gave
“The Wastefulness of the South;” A.
R. Craig, “Why a Literary Society Di-
ploma Should Count as a Credit for
Graduation;” and F. M. Mitchell.
“The End of the World.” Four decla-
mations were given. E. A. Woods gave
“A Satire on the Classics;” R. R. Craig.
“The Foundations of the Nation ;” Car-
wyle, “Ideals and Reals;” Byrd, “Ora-
tory.” The meeting as a whole was very
good, altho two or three of the speakers
showed signs of lack of preparation.

In the Philanthropic Society on last
Saturday night, the regular order of
meeting was suspended and the prelimi-
naries of the Junior-Senior debate were
held in its stead.

On Monday morning the sole decla-
mation was given by Caldwell, on “The
Future of America.” The two orations
were as follows: Howell, on “Luther
Burbank,” and R. H. Stone on “Adver-
tising for Literary Purposes.”

WINNERS OF “REPS” IN
JUNIOR-SENIOR DEBATE

The preliminaries of the Junior-Sen-
ior debate were held last Saturday night
instead of the regular meeting of society.
J. R. Woods, Cousar and Craig were
chosen to represent the Eumencan So-
ciety in the finals, which will be held
April 28th. Cousar, J. R. Wonds and
Craig upheld the affirmative of the ques-
tion: “Resolved, That a Pan-Amer-
ican Union shall take the place of the
Monroe Doctrine. Fikel and Thomas
upheld the negative.

Woods opened the debate with a short
explanation of the Monroe Doctrine,
and pointed out that the Pan-American
Union would be a more adequate protec-
tion for South America, and would do
away with the ill feeling that has arisen
between ourselves and them. Craig. fol-
lowing on the affirmative, argued that
we had no right to enforce the Monroe
Doctrine, as it was against international
law. Cousar closed the debate for the
affirmative by showing that the Monroe
Doctrine was inherently wrong in princi-
ple and that the position of the United
States gave no place to the smaller re-
publics.

Eikel, first for the negative, declared
that other causes and not the Monroe
Doctrine were the cause of friction be-
tween the United States and South
America, and that the Monroe Doctrine
was misconstrued by some of the South
American republics. Thomas closed the
argument for the negative by pointing
out that the Monroe Doctrine was fun-
damentally a policy of American na-
tional self-protection.

The preliminaries of the Junior-Sen-
ior debate took the place of the regular

class last Saturday in the. Phi. The query
for the debate was the same as in the Eu.
The debaters for the affirmative were
McDonald and Fowle. Those on the
negative were Cumming and Webber.

The affirmative contended that the
Monroe Doctrine had outgrown its use-
fulness, that the Monroe Doctrine causes
a feeling of jealousy between the South
American republics and the United
States because these republics are now
strong enough to take care of themselves.
They argued that an alliance would be
better for all concerned because it would
give each country a representation and
because it would cause mutual co-opera-
tion.

The negative contended that the need
for the Monroe Doctrine is as live to-
day as it ever was, that the Monroe Doc-
trine is effective, that the cause of ill
feeling between us and the Latin Amer-
ican republics is not the Monroe Doc-
trine, but its interpretation, and = that
Pan-Americanism is impracticable —be-
cause Brazil, Argentina and Chile are
the only republics able to enter into an
alliance with the United States.

Messrs. Fowle, Cumming and Web-
ber were chosen to represent the Phi So-
ciety in the Inter-Society Debate which
is to be held in the near future. “The
judges were Dr. Richards and Professor

Wood.
THE FRESH-SOPH DEBATE.

The Fresh-Soph debate of the Phi So-
ciety was held last Tuesday night in the
society hall. ‘The object of the contest
was to choose the best debater in the so-
ciety from the two lower classes.

The subject of the debate was: ‘‘Re-
solved, That the Federal Government
should own and operate the railroads en-
gaged in Interstate Commerce.”

There was a lot of pep in the debate
and all of the speeches were good.

Those debating were R. D. Hall,
Roberts, C. Howell, Spence, C. W.
Worth, Currie, Maddrey, Hart, Ham-
ilton, Chalmers, McClure and Calhoun.

The | judges decided tu award — the
medal to W. M. Currie.

The preliminaries of the Fresh-Soph
debate were held at the same time in the
Eumenean Society. The medal was won
by A. S. Potts.

CAPTAIN MORRISON
TO DRILL STUDENTS

Last Saturday morning it was an-
nounced that Lieutenant Morrison, of
Mooresville, had been secured to take
charge of the drilling. Lieutenant Mor-
rison is a member of the North Carolina
National Guard and has seen active serv-
ice on the border. Davidson is fortunate
in obtaining his services. as few other
colleges have an army officer. It is ex-
pected that a large part of the student
body will come out and a goodly squad
will be organized. Freshmen who take
this military drill will be excused from
gymnasium. The drilling will take place
three afternoons per weck. probably
from 4:30 to 5:30.

Under the command of Capt. “Bob”
Walker, the fifty or sixty men who have
already joined the military company
have been doing faithful work. For the
past few wecks they have been drilling
every night after supper, the campus has
resounded with “hep, hep,” and by now
thev have gained much knowledge of the
rudimentary tactics. Much interest is
being shown, and this will probably in-
crease when Lieutenant Morrison ar-
rives.

The Student Rifle Club is steadily
making progress. The club has received
confirmation from the Adjutant-General
of North Carolina stating that the club
has been accepted as a member of the
National Association. As soon as a place
for a range is decided upon and rifles are
secured, practice will begin. The club

has several sites for a range in view, but

as yet has not definitely decided upon
one. It is hoped that rifles can soon be
secured from the Government. A spare
room in the basement of the Library will
probably be used as a storing place for
the munitions.

OFFICERS CHOSEN FOR
MINISTERIAL BAND

At the last regular meeting of the
Ministerial Band, Sunday, the 15th, new
officers were elected for the coming year.
From among the many worthy nominees
G. C. Bellingrath, of the rising Senior
class, was elected to succeed kh. H. Ham-
ilton as President; Reid Poole, of the
rising Junior class, was elected as Vice-
President, and D. M. Chalmers, of the
rising Sophomore class, was chosen as
Secretary.

The meetings this year have been very
helpful to the members, who look for-
ward to lives of united service in the
interest of a common cause, and the band
is expecting the coming year to be one of
redoubled interest and usefulness.

BATTING AVERAGES,

‘The averages are up to Carolina game.

ABH OP.CT.
McMillan .. . 45 14 311
Wood .. .. 17) §) £294
Pharr... .. . .. 26 = 7° «~.269
Saunders .. . 45 12 .267
Hengeveld 2 15g 2267
Black .. . 43 11.256
Flowers . . 24 6 .250
Keesler . so 68) .200
Johnson 51 gt 76
Lawson . 13-2 5g
Miller . . 20 3 «150
Boswell! 15 1 067
Withers .. . 10 0.9000
Team average .....0.000000 00 ee 225

BOOK LOVERS’ CLUB
MET FRIDAY AFTERNOON

The Book Lovers’ Club was enter-
tained by Mrs, F. L. Jackson at its meet-
ing on last Friday afternoon. Miss Julia
Johnson read a sketch of Kate Douglas
Wiggins’ life. and Mrs. J. EL. Currie
read selections from one of her books.

For reasons which seemed wise, after
a discussion of the matter, the member
ship of the club was limited to twenty-
one, its present enrollment.

DEBATE WITH EMORY
HELD LAST NIGHT

W. H. Neal and G. C. Bellingrath
left last Monday morning for Decatur,
Ga.. where they represented Davidson in
the debate with Emory last night. R.
W. Cousar accompanied them as alter-
nate. The subject of the debate was:
“Resolved, That employers and employ
ees of Public Service Corporations
should be compelled to settle their dis-
putes by arbitration.”

The debate was held in the Agnes
Scott auditorium. The result of the de-
bate will be announced in the next issue.

Friends at Davidson and among the
student body from 1905 to 1909 will
learn with sorrow of the death of Mr.
W. A. Price, father of W. Armstrong
Price, ’09, on April oth, at Morgan-
town, W. Va. Dr. W. A. Price, Jr.
has been professor of Geology at the
University of West Virginia for a few
years, and his parents have been with
him there. The family were residents
of Davidson during the period above
named, and the home was open to the
students at all times.

MRS. LINGLE HONORED
BY GOVERNOR BICKETT

By recent action of Governor Bickett,
Mrs. ‘I’. W. Lingle has been commis-
sioned as a member of the State Board of
Charities and Public Welfare. Mrs.
Lingle succeeds Mrs. I. F. Hill, of Dur-
ham, who was unable to accept the ap-
pointment recently confirmed by the Sen-
ate. This board was reorganized and
has been unable. since the last session of
the Legislature to do much work on ac-
count of the lack of funds because their
appropriation of $15,000 was uninten-
tionally left off the Legislative calendar.

WORK ON GYM BEGUN.

Work was begun a few days ago in
preparation for the building of the new
gymnasium. It was expected that the
actual laying of the brick will begin to-
day, altho considerable -clearing and °
grading was necessary before this could
be begun. The conditions of the con-
tract call for completion by October tst,
but it is expected by the contractor to be
ready by September if nothing unfor-
seen happens to delay the work.

Rev. A. P. Hassel, ‘06, a missionary
under our board in Japan, preached both
sermons in the local church last Sunday.
In the morning he gave a great deal of
interesting information concerning Japan
politically and religiously. [nthe even-
ing he took as his theme “Optimism,”
showing how that quality is absolutely
necessary to a missionary.

Vanderbilt University
The Law School
Nashville, Tena.

Offers a complete three year
Law Course

Write for Cataloguc

CHARLES H. WILBER, Secretary
Member of the Association of American Law Schools.

The Wallace-Brough
Millinery Company
Have just recetved a new line of
MILAN, SEMP, BANGKOK AND LEGHORN SATS
Very Chick and Attractive.

For Sale

A SIX ROOM COTTAGE

On North Main St. joining
Mrs. Young’s.

Lot is 150 Front By 360 Feet Deep.
R. F. Andrews, Davidson, N.C.

BOOKS-STATIONARY-NOVELTIES

Brockmann’s

2224S. TRYON ST. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

SALESMEN WANTED to oolicit
orders for lubricating oils, greases and

paints. Salary or Commission. Address
LINCOLN OIL CO., Cleveland, O.

Patronise Our Advertiser FIRST. Tell him you saw it Advertised in

THE DAVIDSONIAN

If he hasn't it, Try the Other, Fellow. Tell him that he has something
that ought to be advertised in THE DAVIDSONIAN.
