THEDAV:

i

SONIAN

Gymnasium Instructor |Large Number Attended News and Happenings

Secured for Next Year| Volunteer Convention
To Coach Track and Basketball| Davidson Students Take Leading |Social and Personal Items About|Iilustrated Address Given By Ex-

Teams in Addition.

‘Vhru the efforts of the authorities,
Davidson College has secured the serv-
ices of Mr. George Whilden Mackey,
of the class of 1911, as gymnasium di-
rector and coach for basketball and
track for next year. Mr. Mackey is
now connected with the Atlanta Y. M.
C. A. as physical director, and will as-
sume his duties at Davidson with the
beginning of the fall term.

Davidson considers herself fortunate
in securing such a man for this posi-
tion, as he is eminently qualified for the
work. After leaving Davidson, Mr.
Mackey took a course in the Springfield
Training School for Y. M. C. A. work-
ers. During his last year at Davidson,
and also while taking his M.A. course
here, he was director of the gymnasium
work for the Freshmen. He has gained
an enviable reputation as an athlete, and
with the practical training and experi-
ence he has received, he should prove a
valuable man for the work here at Dav-
idson.

Not only is Mr. Mackey an excellent
athlete, but he is also a man of pleasing
personality and attractiveness. He is,
of course, thoroly familiar with college
life and problems, and will be a sym-
pathetic friend to all the men on the
campus.

In addition to havine charge of the
gymnasium work here and coaching bas-
kethall and track, Mr. Mackey will act
as Y. M. C. A. secretary, and in holding
this position he will fill a long felt need
at- Davidson.

NEW LIBRARY BOOKS.

Among the recent additions to the
Library there are quite a number of
books of poems and on the appreciation
of poetry. which should anpeal to lovers
of verse. They are: “The Great Val-
lev.” Masters: “Poems of Allan See-
ger.” Archer; “Ballad of a Cheeckado.”
Service; “Rhymes of a Red Cross Man,”
Service: “Gallipoli,” Masefield: ‘“Ap-
preciations of Poetry.” Hearn: ‘War
and Laughter.” Oppenheim: “A Hand
Guide for Beggars.” Lindsay; “Anthol-
ogv of Magazine Verse for 1916,” bv
William Stanley Braithwaite, relates all
the poems published in the various maga-
vines during 1916, and should prove
especially interesting to those who are
themselves interested in writing poetry.

PUBLIC SPEAKING CLASS
UNDER PROF. FULBRIGHT

After much discussion and some delay.
the Faculty decided to merge the Public
Sneaking course, taught bv Professor
Currie, into an expression class to be in-
structed by Professor Fulbright, during
the three weeks of his stav here. When
he has finished his work, Professor Cur-
rie will resume the course in Public
Speaking where the class stopped.

This class is open to any student who
wishes to get the training offered in this
course. A small fee is to be paid the
Treasurer. Mr. Tackson, and this is the
only matriculation requirement. It will
not be counted as a credit, but the train-
ing will be invaluable to any student.

Part In Meeting.

The annual conference of the North
Carolina Student Volunteer Union was
held in Greensboro, last Friday thru
Sunday, March gth-11th.
ence was, of course, not limited to these
who had already volunteered for the
foreign field, but all those who are in-
terested were cordially invited. Over
thirty-five went from Davidson. and
most of the other colleges in the State
were represented, so that there were
over a hundred that attended the con
ference.

Those in attendance were cordially
received into the homes of the people of
Greensbore and there delightfully en-
tertained. The hospitality of the people
of Greensboro was an clement that add-
ed much to the pleasure of the occasion.

Space does not permit a full account
of each one of the sessions of the con-
ference, hut some of the most importan’
points mav be touched on. “The sessions
were held in the First © Presbyterian
Church, except those on Sunday after
noon and Sunday night, which were hel!
out at the State Normal Collepe.

Friday night representatives of the
different colleges made short speeches.
after which Dr. Dobyns, ot St. Joseph.
Mo.. spoke on “Four Requisites of Suc-
cess.” First, determination of purpose;
cecond, elimination of the superfluous:
third, the concentration of all the forces
to that end; and fourth, approximation
to the ideal.

On Saturday afternoon the election
of officers for the coming vear was held,
with the following results: 0. H
Hodges (U. N. C.), President; Miss
Mary Porter (KF. M. C.), Vice-Presi-
dent; Miss Janie Klutz (S. N. C.), Sec-
retary; and J. R. Woods (D.C.), Treas-
urer. Mrs. White spoke at this session
on “The Preparation and Qualifications
of the Volunteer.” She pointed out ina
very clear and simple way some of the
essentials. Mr. Erdman also spoke on
“The Necessity of Surrendering the
Will.”

Saturday night mation pictures of
Japan, Korea and China were shown,
after which Mr. Erdman made a talk
showing just what those pictures should
mean. . ,

Sundav afterhoon Mr, Erdman and
Mrs. White gave some more valuable
information about the foreign field, and
same volunteers made excellent short
speeches.

Sunday night J. R. Woods, D. V.
Hudson, W. Y. Sayad and Mr. Erd-
man spoke on “The Call of the Fields.”
Then there was the closing address by
Dr. Dobyns,

JUNIOR TEAM HAS
ITS ANNUAL “FEED”

Last Thursday evening the Junior
football squad held its annual feed in
the Social Center. The squad was
composed of Jones, Richardson, Over-
ton, Fowle, Armstead, Therrell, Clark.
Connoly, Mebane, Kennedy, Thames, J.
B. Woods, Davis and Finley. The table
was loaded with good things to eat, and
when these were disposed of, a pleasant
half hour was spent with jokes, etc.

Pa ec as a
so ns

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON. N. C.,. MARCH 14, 1917.

of The Week in Town

The Town People

Miss Fannie McBride has returned
from Florida, where she made a visit to
her brother.

The confer- |

Dr. Richards held = meetings in
Mooresville during last week at the
Second Presbyterian church.

* ‘ 4

Misses Lizzie and Mary Young left
last Wednesday for Concord for a short
visit.

Because of the prevalence of measles,
Miss Gordon Baskerville has suspended
her day schoo! for a time.

' 4

Mrs. Richards spent last ‘Thursday in

Mooresville,

¥

Dr. Edward Mack, of Union “Pheo-
logical Seminary, visited Dr. Arbuckle
during his stav in Davidson.

: 4

Tames Wharev Grew is confined to his
bed with a case of measles.
ra C4

The Book Lovers’ Club) inet last

Pueeday. Miss Maud Vinson read a

paper on “The Short Story.”
« * e

Dr. J. M. McConnell went to South
Carolina ‘the end of last week to make
an address before a school assembly.

* Py *
Toe McConnell is fast recovering
from the effects of his recent illness
* « «

The millinery opening will he March
22nd and 23rd, at M. H. Goodrum’s
store. See the advertisement in this
issue,

NEW GRANDSTANDS
FOR SPRUNT FIELD

The entire student body is delighted
to learn that four new bleachers are be-
ing constructed on Sprunt Athletic Field.
‘They are to be Jarger than the ones now
on the field and will be conveniently lo-
cated so that a large number of spec-
tators can he accommodated. Also,
there is being built a fence, three feet
high and two hundred yards long, run-
ning from behind home plate down to-
ward first base, which will serve to keep
over-enthusiasts off the diamond and al-
low everyhody to see the game. These
improvements will add much to the ap
pearance of the field, and will add great-
er comfort to the onlookers, now sub-
jected to many inconveniences at cach
game.

FRESH-SOPH DECLAMATION
CONTFST MONDAY NIGHT

The Fresh-Soph Declamation prelimi-
naries will be held in the respective lit-
erary society halls on Mondav_ night,
March 19th, at 7:30 a’clock. All mem-
hers of these classes who expect to enter
the contest are asked to hand their
names to the presidents of their societies
at once. Three men will be selected in
each society to compete in a final contest
to be held in Shearer Hall two weeks
later, when the winner of the medal
offered by each society will be chosen.

No. 22

Interesting Lecture
On Alaska and Canada

pert On Subject.

A very interesting and instructive
lecture, illustrated with motion pictures,
was that of Mr. L. O. Armstrong, on
the subject, “From Labrador to Alas-
ka.” shown last week in Shearer Hall.
Mr. Armstrong is a Canadian who is
thoroly conversant with Canadian af-
fairs and scenes and who has given a
good deal of time to a study of Canada’s
resources in behalf of the Bureau of
Commercial Economics. givings a sertes
of lectures on topics of commercial and
cconomical interest.

The reels of pictures which Mr, Arm-
strong presented served as a background
te his lecture and made it doubly vivid.
‘The tirst of these reels showed the beau-
tiful sea scenes along the coast and
demonstrated the vast amount of pawer
which lies, at present scarcely developed,
in the strong rise and fall of the tides
on the coast of .Labrador. “Phe next
reels showed scenes taken on a journey
thre Canada, illustrating the methods
used in’ capturing and canning salmon,
the cutting and shipment of the immense
trees, the wheat fields. which are among
the largest in the world. and the min-
ing and grading of ashestos in the mines
around Quebec.

The last reel of the series showed
more of the beautiful scenery of Canada,
including a view of the famous Lake
Louise, said by some artists the most
beautiful in the world.

DAVIDSON MEN WILL
ATTEND SUMMER CAMPS

Davidson will be well represented at
the summer camps of military instruc-
tion this year, for North Carolina has
heen placed in the Eastern Division and
the men from this State will go to Platts-
burg, N. Y.. on the shores of Lake
Champlain. ‘The camps for college men
will he held ‘in June and July and for
business men in August and September.
each camp lasting one month, All ex-
penses, transportation, uniform and sub
sistence are paid by the War Depart-
ment from the recent appropriation by

Congress. There is no obligation to
military service.
Fall information concerning — these

camps mav be had from A. C. Wood or
Dr. J. W. McConnell.

LYCEUM ATTRACTION
SATURDAY NIGHT

Another of the lyceum attrictions for
this vear will he presented next Saturday
night, March 17th, in Shearer Hall, at
8 o'clock, when the Doering Orchestral
Quintette, of St. Louis, will give an en-
tertainment. This company consists of
five ladies, all talented musicians. and
they will no doubt furnish an eveninc
of great pleasure and profit.

Dr. John W. McConnell has secured
the loan of two naval cannon to he
placed at the foot of a flac-staff it is
proposed to erect on the campus this
spring. These cannon and some pro-
jectiles for decorative purposes will be
shipped from one of the Navy Yards at
an early date.
