4 Ihe DAVIDSONIAN, September 26, 1917

a

ES
| ALUMNI NOTES | FORUM Right Now Presbyterian Theological

: ° e
WHERE CLASS OF 5 PHS YEA The College Christian Endeavor So- I Will Mend Your Shoes Seminary
WILL B R|ciety has a twofold purpose: first, to All work done b 1f
benefit the students in college; and sec- and vatisfaction guaranteed Loulsville Kentucky
Andrew Brown has returned to Dav-|ondly, to act as a clearing house for the
idson for his M.A. degree. Christian Endeavor work in — general. Full staff of Professors. Cur-
A. R. Craig is teaching in Pendleton, The students come from their home Remember my room number:

$.C towns and meet together in the College; riculum modern and compre-

, E. H. Hamilton, L. H. Eikel and H. Society, where the movement is studied 23 S. W. Chambers

S. Morgan are at Union Theological thoroly. Here they learn of the Chris- W. C. SMITH
Seminary, Richmond, Va. tian Endeavor and new ideas are ex-

, ’ changed. They return home where these

hensive, with practical training.

Unusually good Library facili-

nea we is located in business in} ideas may be put into use in strength- For--- ties. Comfortable dormitories
ort ilkesboro, N. C. : : . . A

’ ening the home society or in starting new and home life for students.
S. T. Henderson and W. H. Neal ones. EXPERT STENOGRAPHIC WORK
are in business in Charlotte, the latter]: The Christian Endeavor is needed Write the President
at present working at Camp Greene. more now than at any other time. - See---

Rawls Howard is in business at Tar-] Among the soldiers, the Y. M. C. A. .
boro, N. C. works extensively, but this cannot reach j. A. Thames 72 Chambers Charles R. Hemphill

all, and here is where the Christian En-
deavor is needed to strengthen the boys
in camp for all kinds of temptations.
‘Ghere are three requisites for the estab-
lishing of a worldwide movement: first,
a worldwide need; secondly, a world-
wide power; and thirdly, a worldwide
. ar leadership. ‘These three have been met
J. P. Laird, Jr., 1s with the West by the Christian Endeavor.
ern Union Telegraph Company, Ron So much for the greatness of the
headquarters at 195 Broadway, Room) Chistian Endeavor movement. It is in-
1927, New York City. a teresting to know that the Christian Fn-
_D. I. McKeithen is principal of the] qeavor has meant a great deal in col-
high school at Ashboro, N. C. leges, there being in this State three col-
J. W. Mann is teaching at Staunton|iege societies, at Elon, Guilford and
Military Academy, Staunton, Va.; R. L.| Davidson. A banner will be awarded at
Murray, at Elise High School, Hemp,|the State Convention next year to the
N. C., and F. M. Mitchell, at Eliza-|college society making the best record
beth City, N.C. for this year’s work. Guilford was the
T. J. Mitchell is with the Bureau of best last year, but Davidson has started |:
Municipal Research, New York City. with the determination to make — this] -
J. R. Morton is in business in Sa-|year far outstrip its previous one. David-
vannah, Ga., with the Southern Cotton|son must win the banner this year.
Oil Company. We have very little chance to take
P. B. Price is at the University of[part in the Y. M. C. A. meetings as
Virginia. there are very few, comparatively speak-

H. F. Mayfield, J. C. Paisley and E. ing, who handle the work of the Y. M.

P. Nisbet are attending the second Offi- C. A., but all have a chance to take

ne aeiree ; “|part in the Christian Endeavor. As
thor Gn Camp at Fort Ogle Davidson has Volunteer and Ministerial

. . . wo Bands for those interested in missions
The following received commiissions as

d lieutenants of infantry, U. S. R and the ministry, every man not con- .
secon teute $s 0 oo. . . ., .
at the first Officers’ Training Camp the nected with these organizations should) _ symm ummm nimannin anced atueann ese mnteMeTaet rao AaR

past summer and are now stationed with ally himself with the Christian Fn- SCHOLTZ THE FLORIST, Inc.

h National Army: §. R. Kees deavor. There is an _ opinion among
jer iad Ww. Mattison an d B p.jsome that the Christian Endeavor is PHONES 441.2 ‘0: 0: 8 N. TRYON ST.
dey. W. P CHARLOTTE, N. C.

ly for “ministers and missionaries,”
Roddey. W. P. Keesler and C. E. Ran- bee thie tden 4s tet a \
kin are second lieutenants of cavalry, U. but this iden is false, as it is for all in JETTON DRUG COMPANY, Agents
ANH NRT ANT

D. V. Hudson is teaching at Kashing,
China. ,

C. R. Jenkins is pursuing the medical
course at Johns Hopkins University,
Baltimore; A. B. Reese, Jr., is in the
same department at Harvard, and W.
Y. Sayad at Yale.

Good, Fresh Candies, Cakes, Crackers, Fruits

Special attention given to ‘‘FEEDS.”’ .
Something good to eat ALL the time. L. A. Elliott

See us for your events. We carry a full line of

Stationary, Huyler’s Candies, Waterman’s Ideal
Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholtz, The Florist.

Have you tried our drinks? Special service
given to your prescriptions.

Yours truly,
4

JETTON DRUG COMPANY

terested in Christianity regardless of
what their aim in life may be. The new
students are especially invited to attend
the meetings, which are held at 6:10
every Sunday evening in Shearer Hall.

and to become members.
—_e When You Buy

Was it a reflection on the Senior class
when a Freshman took his seat with

e
them when the classes were being seated K h
at hunch last Sunday? uppen elmer
The other day a Freshman pointed ( q | th
out Chambers building and asked a fel- O es

low if that was South Wing Chambers
building. You are getting the best values possible to

produce. Here can be seen the newest
MECK m BURG correct ideas in CLOTHES.
an

STONEWALL
AT CHARLOTTE, N. C.

CORSA HTTAT TET

—

S. R.

B. N. White is in the Coast Artillery D
Corps, stationed at Fort Caswell, N. C.

R. E. Hughes is in the Medical Corps,
Louisville, Ky.

Reports have not been received as to
the whereabouts of the other few mem-
bers of the class.

Of those here for the M.A. degree last
year, R. H. Bennett is a member of the
U. S. Marines; W. A. Johnson is teach-
ing at Berry School, Mt. Berry, Ga.;
H. W. Ormond is teaching at the Nor-
mal Training School, Greensboro, N.
C.; and W. P. Thomson is a second lieu-
tenant of Infantry, U. S. R., and is
stationed at Columbia, S. C.

E. B. Hale, ex-’20, is in Knoxville
Business College and cannot do without
his Davinsonian.

C. F. Monroe, ex-’18, is doing his bit
in the U. S. Naval Reserve Office, in
Fernandina, Fla. He says, “I would
like very much to be back at D. C. this
year.” Tre Davipsontan is the next
best thing to being on the Hill.

R. T. Scott, ex-'18 (“Scott Did It”)

Stetson Hats, Interwoven Hose
Barrister Shoes

Before buying we invite you to inspect our

is king i tersburg, Va. “ os

" J. H. Mer ext gis supply sargeant Rates: $1.00 and Up stock. We Save You M oney.

in the Third Arkansas, at Camp Brough, .

Little Rock. J. P. SAUNDERS, President \ ] Walla ce & S ons
Senior—Have you gotten fixed up in °

a washing club yet? BOOKS-STATIONARY-NOVELTIES 31-33 West Trade Street, Charlotte, N. C.

Freshman (dropping his head )—That
is right! You do have to buy a bowl
and pitcher and things like that, don’t
you?

B roc k mann ° Ss Stores at Charlotte, Salisbury and Greensboro.

224 S. TRYON ST. CHARLOTTE, N. CG

