bi) y

THEDAVI.

Vol. V.

Y. M. C. A. Campaign
Closed Thursday Night

Deep Impression Made on Campus
by Services.

Last Thursday night brought to a
cluse the Y. M. C. A. fall campaign.
From all points of view this campaign
was on a par with those of past vears,
and from it the whole student body has
received great benefit. “Phe services he-
gan Monday night) and lasted = thro
‘Thursday, preaching in the morning at
12:30, and in the evening at 7:15. The
meeting was conducted by Dr. Wright,
the Indian evangelist. assisted by his
singer, Mr. Young..

Mr. Wright is a short, dark man,
who speaks in a quick, alert manner, He
is half Indian. his father being a full-
blood Choctaw, his mother Scotch-Irish.
His early life was spent on the plains,
and after he entered the ministry much
of his work was done among his own
people. From a life so full of varied
and interesting experiences he could
draw a wonderful fund of apt and strik-
ing illustrations. “I love to be with
men,” he said in his opening sermon,
and these words strike the keynote of
his success as a minister. He is a man
who loves to mingle with his fellow men,
and by that mingling to help them and
to strengthen them.

Nowhere did this trait find more es-
pression than in his sermons. He spoke
directly and earnestly and simply; he
spoke with dignity, and yet without for-
mality, and with a familiarity that did
not breed contempt.

The topic of his first sermon was “Ex-
amine Your Heart.” Other themes
were “Why | Believe the Bible to be
the Word of God,” “Excuses,” “What
Is Faith,” “The Necessity of Confess-
ing Christ.", His two sermons on “Why

I Believe the Bible” were particularly,

instructive, and everyone should have an
outline of these two addresses.

The first reason given by Dr. Wright
for believing the Bible is the statement
of Jesus Himself. Jesus set His seal of
approval on the Canon of the Scriptures.
and Jesus, Dr. Wright showed, was in-
deed the Son of God. His life was not
a fictitious life, nor was His life writ-
ten by collusion. The life and works of
Jesus, the resurrection of Jesus, and His
influence thru the ages testify to the gen-
uineness of the record. The second
reason is the unity of design. A book
whose composition extended over fifteen
hundred years and yet preserves thru-
out the one central theme must have
been planned by one Mind. The third
reason is fulfilled prophecy. ‘Ihe life of
Christ Himself was fulfilled prophecy,
the prophecies against Jerusalem and
against the Jew himself have come true.
Among numerous other illustrations
might be mentioned those against Tyre
and Babylon. ‘The fourth reason is the
omnipotence of the Bible against attack.
In spite of the legion of writers who
have attacked the Bible it remains today
without a single cardinal doctrine de-
stroyed, and the more we know about
the world and science the more we come
to realize the truth of the Bible. The
influence of the Bible on the civilization
af the world, and the power of the Bible

(Continued on page 6)

i

I

~

Red and Black Triumphs
Over V. M. I. Cadets

Davidson Wins From Cadets by Decisive Score of 23 to 7, Outclassing
Ber Opponents ln Every Way.

In spite of splendid advance notices | tracks.

V. M. Ls ball

Quarter over.

of the game only a small crowd turned | on own 20-yard line,

out to see Davidson College defeat Vir-
ginia Military Institute on Wearn Field,
Saturday, by a score of 23-7.

The teams. were practically evenly
matched as to weight, but Coach Fet-
ver's Flying Squadron outclassed the
Cadets at every phase of the game. ‘The
Red and Black machine had the jump
on its opponents from the start, but V.
M. [. put up her accustomed plucky
fight. [In every way the Virginians up-
held their record, shown up again by
her Army game.

Tho every man on both teams did his
full duty (and perhaps more) the indi-
vidual stars were Leech, Dixon and
Engleby, for V. M. I., and Spann, Mc-
Alister. Flowers and King, for David-
son. Burns was unfit for the game be-
cause of a sprained ankle. The features
of the game were end runs by MeAlister.
Flowers and Engleby, a long run by
Leech and McAlister and the handling
of forward passes by Spann and King.

The game by plays is as follows:

FIRST QUARTER,

Davidson wins toss. Receives at

south end of field.

Leech kicked off 35 yards to Elliott.
who returned 5. McAlister hit left end
for a yard; Crouch made 4 yards over
right tackle. D.C. penalized 15 yards,
holding. Spann failed to gain’ round
right end; Flowers kicked to Leech, who
returned to 15-yard line. V. M. L's
ball. Dixon made 3 yards thru center,
repeated again for 2 yards. V. M. I.
penalized 5 yards, offside. Leech kicked
to Flowers in midfield. Flowers down-
ed in tracks. D.C.'s ball on her 40-yard
line. Flowers hit left guard for 3 yards:
McAlister failed to gain thru center. V.
M. J. penalized 5 yards. offside. Flow
ers over guard, out of bounds. Mc-
Alister failed to gain around left end.
A pass by Spann to Richardson netted
to yards. Crouch over right — tackle.
made 7 vards. Spann failed to gain
around left end, but went thru center
for first down. Flowers over tackle and
McAlister over guard made oa vard
apiece. Forward pass to King made 10
vards. Crouch and McAlister over
guard made 2 vards. Spann hit center
for a touchdown. Flowers kicked out
and kicked goal. D.C... 7: V. M. To.

Grey kicked off 55 vards to Leech,
who fumbled. Dixon returned 20 vards.
Dixon over right guard made 5 vards,
repeated for 3. repeated for first down,
Dixon over left guard made 5 yards, re-
peated for 5 yards. Dixon thrown by
Grey for g-yard loss. V. M. J. pen-
alized 10 vards for blocking. [.eech
carried bal] out of bounds for no gain.
Smith failed at left end. Leech kicked
out of bounds. D. C.'s ball on own 45-
vard line. McAlister and Spann failed
to gain. Flowers made 3 around left
end. Flowers punted 50 yards over goal
line. V. M. I. scrimmage on own 20-
vard line. Dixon and Leech. downed in

SECOND QUARTER.

Engleby over guard, Leech over tackle
failed to gain. Leech punted yo yards to
Flowers, who returned 15 yards, Dav-
idson's ball on §0-yard line. McAlister
tore off 13 yards around left end. V.
M. I. penalized to yards. McAlister
went over right guard for 4 yards;
Flowers round right end for 3 yards. V.
M. I. penalized 5 yards. Flowers made
5 yards around left end.
peated for § more. Crouch hammered
guard for 3 yards, again for 2 yards.
Ball on V, M. T.’s g-yard line. “Time
out for V. M. 1.

Flowers went over right tackle fora
yard. Ball fumbled. Flowers recovered
on 7-yard Line. “Pime out for Davidson.
Ve M.'s ball. Dixon gained 1 yard
over left: guard; Engleby went round
lett end for 15 vards. Smith round
right end made a yard. Engleby made
2 over right tackle. Leech hit center for
ayards. Engleby made i yard over left
tackle. D. C.'s ball on V. ML. E.'s 32-
vard line. Marshall threw McAlister
for 3 yard loss. Forward pass to Rich-
ardson blocked. Pass from Flowers to
King intercepted by Smith. — Engleby
made 1 yard over left guard. Forward
pass incomplete. Leéch punted out of
bounds. =D. C.'s ball on own 5-yard
line. Forward pass. Flowers to King,
netted ot yards. Crouch downed in
tracks, McAlistér made 7 yards around
right end, then 6 around left end, then
over left guard for 2 yards. Davidson
penalized 15 yards for holding. Grey
punted out of hounds. V. M. 1.'s ball
in midfield. McAlister intercepted for
ward pass and ran it back 200 yards
Forward pass blocked. D. C.'s ball,
midfield. Half aver. Score: D.C. 7:
V2 MOL. 0.

THIRD QUARTER.

Grey kicked §§ yards to Leech; ball
returned 20 yards. Engleby failed over
lefr tackle, but gained 1 yard over right

tackle. Leech punted to McAlister.
Davidson’s hall on own = 25-yard line.
Time out for Davidson. McAlister

tore off 8 yards over tackle. Flowers

failed to gain over same place.

punted to Leech on V. M. U.’s 37-vard ex-'48., of
1] cighty-seven
| grandfather of PB. Price, ‘17.

line; no return. Anderson made a var
around right end. Engleby failed ove
left tackle, but made first down sound
right end. Dixon failed to gain. D.
C. Penalized 5 yards, offside. Ander
son failed at right end. Leech lost 5
yards at left end. Forward pass incom-
plete. Leech punted 35 yards to Flow-
ers, who returned 10 yards, Davidson's
hall on own 15-yard line. Grey made a
clean run around left end for 25 vards,
but D. C. penalized 5 yards for offside.
Time out for Davidson. Grey punted
35 yards to Leech, who returned 5 yards.
V. M. I.’s ball on D. C.'s 40-vard line.
Engleby over left tackle twice and An-
derson over right tackle add up 4 vards.

(Continued on page 6)

2 SONIAN

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.. OCTOBER 31. 1917.

No. 8

Governor Bickett
Thrills Audience

Patriotic Address Is Feature of
Davidson Day.

Davidson Dav exercises were held in
Shearer Hall, Thursday morning, Oc-
tober 25, the speaker of the occasion be
ing Governor VT. W. ‘Pickett.

Invocation was conducted by Dr.
Martin, following which Prof. A. Cur-
rie read a necrology of the alumni. for
the past year, Dr. J. Moore McCon
nell then read a list of (alumni upon
whom honors had been conferred during
the past year. Dr. McConnell stated
that Davidson has from her alumni two
hundred and ninety-three ministers ot
the Gospel, twenty-six of whom are for

McAlister re [Clem missionaries and twenty-nine home

missionaries. “Thirty of her alumni are
college presidents. and eighty-three oth

ers are college professors. “The oldest
living alumnus with whom the college is

Grey |i" communication is Mr. B. F. Wilson.

Maysville, S. C., who is
years of age. He is the
Mr. J.
W. A. Kerr, ex-’52, the second oldest

alumnus, was present for the exercises.
Mr. Kerr made a few remarks to the
audience concerning his college days

cre.

Dr. Martin read a list of last year’s
students who have entered the Army
service, also the Honor Roll for last
year. Among those Davidson has con
tributed to the cause of war have been
Drs. J. W. McConnell and ‘TT. W. Lin-
gle. Altogether, Davidson has contrib-
uted one hundred and sixty-five students
and alumni.

Governor Bickett, the principal speak-

(Continued on page §)

a
