4

Ihe DAVIDSONIAN, January 24, 1917

THE FORUM

A REFORM SUGGESTED.

The student’s greatest bugbear, the
final examination, has long been in ex-
istence; few things stand the test of
time that are not worthy and useful.
We are not mistaken when we conclude
that the examination occupies a very
important position among the duties of
the college attendant, altho it finds no
place of usefulness among the student’s
tasks.

But to be fair to both sides of the
question, we must point out the two
reasons why examinations should be re-
quired of all, both of the college attend-
ant and of the student. The prenara-
tion must be made hastily, generally in
a few hours. This gives a rapid survev
of the subject in hand, which means that
the subject will then be viewed as a
unit. and its interrelation will be more
clearly seen; but do not the monthly re-
views tend to produce this same effect ?
Or could not a summarizing essay be
required at the end of each term, an
essay which would require the student
to review the whole subject. and vet not
burden him with the strain of uncertain-
ty that there is connected with the ex-
amination? The second argument in ite
favor is that one is taught to make a
positive use of the knowledge he has
stored up during the term. Again we
have to refer to the reviews: they have
already called unon the student to use
his accumulated knowledge.

Now, viewing the subject from an-
other angle, it will be seen that exami-
nations can be made useful as an_in-
centive to the ones not interested in
studies. How hard a person will work
to “get out of” something! . Tf it were
made a rule of the college that anyone
making 90 or more on the term’s work
would be excused from the final exami-
nation on that subject—if this were the
case, how many more would find greater
interest in their work, how many more
would thoraly prepare for each dail:
recitation! Without a doubt, the schol-
astic standing of the college would be
greatly increased.

Above it was hinted that lessons
would be carefully prepared when as-
signed: this would be a true and ex-
ceedingly desirable result. The treach-
erous custom of “spotting” would — be-
come mare useless and less and less prac-
ticed.” Denendence could no longer he
nlaced in “cramming.” That which is
“crammed” the mind refuses to hold:
the undigested knowledge is held long
enough to be poured out upon the ex-
amination naper. After that it is gone
forever. However, on the other hand.
if each recitation is prenared at the time
assigned, several benefits will result:
Promptness will first become evident.
and along with it increased study and
mental training: these will tend to pro-
duce thoroness, and all will unite — in
permanently fixing the facts in the stu-
dent’s mind. That which is learned
by repeated, thoro efforts will remain
longer than the useless jumbled mass of
ideas gotten by cramming.

Examinations are not a fair test of a
student’s ability. The important part
of a subject to one student may be in-
significant to another; this means that
neither chose wrongly, but that each
learned what was of most value in his
respective position in life. The profes-
sor’s idea of the essential things would
probably differ from the student's ideas,
and. looking from his point of view, he
would also be right; in other words,
there is a phase of almost everv subject
studied that fits. appeals to, and fixes it-
self in each student’s mind, but the final
examination seldom ever respects — this
difference in temperaments. And again.
the examination is unfair because _ its
severity is greatly dependent upon the

mood of the instructor at the time the

test is held. At one time he may give aj.

very easy examination, which would
cause him to over-estimate the student's
knowledge of the study; or, in another
mood, he might give a very hard ex-
amination, which would cause him to
over-estimate the student's ignorance of
the subject in hand. .

Now let us view the examination in
its only place of utility, i. e., when it is
used as an incentive to higher scholar-
ship. But before the college attendant
will be impelled, by examinations, to be-
come a/student, he must see a reward at
the end; or, in other words, he must
know that if during the term he has
made 90 or more on any subject studied.
that he will not have occasion to dread
the end of the term, that he will not be
subjected to the physical and mental
strain of tedious preparation for the
dreaded trial, that he will not have to
suffer the humiliation of having his ig-
norance displayed, and that his report
will be sent home with at least a highly
prized “90” on each study upon which
he did not have to stand an examination.
When the average college attendant re-
alizes that more thoro study todav will
enable him tomorrow (for we all live
in the future) to reap the benefits just
enumerated, he will immediately increase
his efforts—and certainly no harm wil!
be done. Only good can result: The
fforts of those who are at present stu
dents will not be lessened; the physica!
and mental strain of examinations wil!
he -climinated for those who dread them
the more. that is, for the men who make
erades of 90 or over; faithful effort wil!
receive a double reward, of — freedom
fram examinations, and a clearer, fuller
Lnawledge of the subjects covered
“Flaw can we get more studying done?”
vill practically be an answered ques
tion: and a line af distinction will b:
drawn, not openly, probably. but in some
auict, thoughtful moment in each col-
lege man’s life; in his meditation he
will say to himself: “Do T have te
stand examinations? Have [classed
mvself among the slothful. indifferent.
and idealless because T lack the will
nower to avercome my _— inclinations?
Yes.” he confesses. as he determines.
“but from naw on TH show the streneth
of mv will.” And he, who is already
secking the beauties of scholarly. work.
will. in his quict moments, modestly re-
flect: “Mavhbe, now, with the dread of
the examination removed, T can do a lit-
tle better work, and accomplish a little
more.”

We have not stated that the examina-
tion is valueless, but we do contend that
here, at Davidson, it is not serving in its
greatest capacity of usefulness. May
thev soon be used as a reward for the
faithful, as.an incentive to the lazy, and
as a condemnation of the slothful and
idcalless! 0. J. T.. JR.

* * 4

Class of -1918, soon you will be in
the “limelight” of college activities;
soon you will be classed as “mighty
Seniors.” Time flies so quickly that be-
fore long each will be wondering if his
will be the privilege of wearing a cap
and gown. No doubt some others are
interested in the same question; but
hundreds are interested in ‘What
worthy deed will the class of '18 have
the privilege of having done?” Everv
class does something worth while. Tf
you can influence the: facultv in’ this
matter of exempting students from final
examinations, will it not be well worth
the effort?

0. J. THIES.

At a recent meeting of the Civic
League the following officers, were elect-
ed for the ensuing term: Miss Cornelia
Shaw, president; Mrs. H. J. Brown.
vice-president; Mrs, Earl Lathery, sec-
retary; Mrs. Ochler, treasurer.

Prescriptions Compounded
by Registered Pharmacists

We carry a complete line of up-to-date

Stationery. . .
Fountain. . .

Ihe Rexall Store

Drink at our Sanitary
We want to serve you.

WHITE DRUG CO.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

Thorough

Courses

WELL EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

We Excell in SER VICE

You like to trade with a Drug Store where
you get just what you want-—where you are

served in the right way.

We are particular

about our service, and a courteous, respectful
and obliging manner is always proffered you.

Make your Drug Store shopping pleasant by coming here

: JETTON DRUG COMPANY §:

The TATE-BROWN CO.

CHARLOTTE. N. C.
Soriety Brand Clothes
Kuapp-Helt fats

HANAN SHOES, FLORSHEIM SHOES, MAN-
HATTAN SHIRTS: Neckwear, Underwear, Hosiery

HOTEL STONEWALL Davidson Pressing Club

—Charlotie, N. C.—
HOTEL HUFFINE, - Greensboro, N. C.
HOTEL YADKIN, - - Salisbury, N. C.
HOTEL LAFAYETTE, Fayetteville, N. C.
HOTEL MORGAN, - - - Danville, Va.
HOTEL LEELAND, - - Danville, Va.

J. P. SANDERS, President

United Motor Lines
Regular Lines

Between
Charlotte and Statesville

We cater to special trips for
students

L. E. Patterson, College Representative

6 Suits Cleaned & Pressed $1.00

DRY CLEANING A SPECIALTY
ALL WORK GUARANTEED

Defy Jack Frost’

with his chilly blasts and wear a }

Spalding
WD]JP

Sweater

Big. warm and com-
fortable, with a high
etorm collarthat
covere the care when
turned up. Goo

weight, best quality
worsted, with a
pocket on each side.

Price - $8.50
Others, of course—send for our catalogue

A. G. SPALDING & BROS. wwe.
74 N. Broad St. ATLANTA, GA.

