| ‘Ite DAVIDSONIAN, April 11, 1917
=———————oooooUoCoIoIoIyIyo— SSS —_————________ Ss

. , ESSAY CONTEST PLANNED will save a man, and others, Another| OLD MAIDS’ CONVENTION
Literary Societies

BY BLUE PENCIL CLUB| curious study is that of the “mediums’’ PRESENTED SATURDAY

of which one hears so much these days.
Many instances of such presences seem} The presentation of the Old Maids’
to be verified by unquestionable au-| Convention last Saturday night by the:
thorities. What is it? Some think it]Camp Fire Girls was a great success.
is communication with the devil. Is} The aaditorium was well filled with an
there not a prophecy in the Bible which| eager and appreciative audience. The
states that in the latter days Satan shall] time for the convention to begin was rap-
communicate with man? idly approaching, but still no old maids
Chambliss then discussed the war] were in sight. Soon, however, they be-
with relation to its possibilities for refor-| gan to come straggling in, and such a
mation. He stated that many believe! time they had at greeting each other one
this war will sweep away the commercial] seldom sees. Finally they got down to
idea which has for so long held the] business, if it might be called such. That
world in its clutch. Man will think of| which appeared to be serious business to
others in business as well as himself. them had a very different reaction upon
It would be a terrible thing if Amer-] the audience. Many times were there
bursts of laughter and applause caused

ica should fail to profit by the mistakes
of England, which country called for] by the comic antics and funny sayings of
these dignified sisters.

volunteers, thus pouring into — the
trenches the flower of her educated man-| One feature was the expression of
hood. Now that class of her citizens has]each as to her feelings concerning her
been largely wiped out, and she has] condition and hopes. During the ‘discus
awakened too late to remedy it. Hel sion a mouse ran across the floor and all
closed with the statement that we should] of them jumped on the chairs except one
fight for humanity's sake for the better-| old sister who had denounced men in
ment of the world and not for the nar-] general, who killed the mouse. She later
rower cause—that of country. strengthened her position against men
by singing a solo that she was glad she
was an old maid, a maid of sixty-three.

About this time Professor Pinkerton
arrived with his wonderful “Electric
Transform-her.” He succeeded in get-
ting same of the old spinsters to give his
machine a trial. There were wonderful
results, cach ane being changed — into
beautiful young ladies, until one desired
to be changed into a man, because, as
she said, she was afraid she may again
become an old maid without having a
chance to marry. The result of this ex-
periment was the destruction of the won-
derful machine.

The convention as a whole was much
enjoved. The costumes and make-up of
the members were fine. One significant
thing was their motto; M-A-N—man,
which they repeated in concert whenever
it was permissible.

Under the auspices of the local Blue
Pencil Club, a chapter in Eigmsa Upsilon
Literary Fraternity, an essay contest has
been inaugurated between the various
high schools composing the West Cen-
tral Division of the State, according to
the grouping of the State University. The
subject for the contest this year is ‘The
Short Stories of O. Henry.” The es-
says are to be submitted, under certain
rules governing the contest, by the con-
testants on or before the first of May,
and to the winner will be awarded a
gold medal properly designed and en-
graved. In inauguratiag this plan it is
the hope of the Blue Pencil Club to stim-
ulate a deeper interest among the high
school students in the literary produc-
tions of North Carolina writers and en-
able then to thus broaden their literary
knowledge.

POLITY CLUB OFFICERS
AND DELEGATES ELECTED:

SCHEDULE.

Debate, Saturday night, April 14th:
“Resolved, that the number of represen-
tatives to Congress should be reduced.”

Eumenean—Preliminaries of Junior-
Senior debate. .

Philanthropic — Affirmative: Alex-
ander, Spence, Hall, Maddrew*and Mc-
Keithan. Negative: Clark, Dunlap,
Grey, Kornegay and Ratchford.

Monday morning, April 16th:

Eumenean — Declamations: Byrd,
Carmyle, §. R. Craig and Cunningham,
Orations: Sayad, Thomas, J. B. Woods
and A. R. Craig.

Philanthropic—-Declamations: Hunt-
er, Brown, McAlister, J. W. Howell,
Karriker, Corriher and Freeman. Ora-
tions: Rankin, Fowle and Nisbet.

WEEKLY MFETINGS:

There was no meeting of the Eumen
ean Society Saturday night, due to the
lack of fights. At the Monday morning
meeting. G. M. Robson gave a declama-
tion, “Extracts From President Wil-
son’s War Speech.” The following men
gave orations: P. B. Price, “Biograph-
ical Sketch of Dr. Shearer ;”’ B. D. Rod-
dey, “The Swiss Military System;” F.
M. Mitchell, “A Diploma From Society
Should Count as a Course Towards thr
Student’s Degree;” and F. H. Hamil-
ton, “The Russian Revolution."

In the Philanthropic Society on last
Saturday night the debate was: “Re-
solved, ‘That those graduating from lit-
erary society should be given a credit on
the college curriculum.” ‘The affirma-
tive was upheld by Ratchford, Hall.
Calhoun, Stone and McKeithen, while
the negative was represented by McDon-
ald, Fleming, McClure and Siske.

The debate was long, dull and unin-
teresting. None of the speakers had
sufficient preparation, as all but one were
appointed on. “he committee awarded
the decision to the negative.

On Monday morning the program.
consisted entirely of declamations. Chal-
mers gave “Charge of the Light Bri-
gade ;" Foreman, “War, Its Purpose
and Results;" Spratt, “Education ;”
Alexander, “Extracts from Burke's Con-
ciliation of the Colonies ;" Currie, “Ser-
geant Prentiss’ First Plea.” and Hunter.
“The American Flag.” The critic com
plimented the speakers hv | saying the
speeches were the best delivered — this
year.

Art a meeting of the Polity Club, held
last Tuesday night, officers were elected
for next vear. J. A. Thames was elect-
ed President; L. A. Chambliss, Vice-
President, and W. C. Cumming, Secre-
tary and ‘Treasurer. In addition to elect-
ing these officers, the club chosé its two
representatives to the ‘Third Annual
Conference of the Federation of Inter-
national Polity Clubs, which will prob-
ably be held at Williams College, Wil-
liamstown, Mass., from June 26th te
Tuly sth, J. A. Thames and W. C.
Cumming were elected as delepates te
this conference, and L.A. Chambliss,
alternate.

In view of the war situation, itt
doubtful if this meeting of representa-
tives of the various Polity Clubs of the
country will be held, tho plans are al-
ready being made for an interesting and
vrofitable gathering... President Gar-
feld, of Williams College, has consent-
ed to obtain all possible support on the
nart of the college, and the American
Association for International Concilia-
tion has again agreed to give its financial
support.

Before the business meeting of the lo-
cal club, S. T. Henderson pave an intr
esting review of the hook, “Why Men
Fight.” by Bertrand Russell.

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVORERS
HAVE HELPFUL MEETING

The Christian Endeavor Society held a
very interesting meeting Sunday even-
ing at 6:16. “Phe topic for discussion
was ‘Phe Significance of Easter," tak-
ing the Bible reading from the last pari
of the fifteenth chapter of First) Corin-
thians. = Several good points — were
brought forward by different members
of the society. G. L. Webber, the
leader for the evening, took as his start-
ing point the words: “For this corrup
tible must put on incurruption, and this
mortal must put on immortality,” and
gave a very interesting talk, showing oun
whole religion rests on the risen Christ.
Another good point was that) Presby
tertans did not favor having Easter once
a year, but every Sunday was an Easter
to them.

The meeting was only attended by
about fifty members, but the Christian
Endeavor Society seems to be reaching
more and. more men on the campus as the
weeks go by.

Mr. $. 8. Crashaw, of Salisbury, N.
C., the contractor for the Gymnasium,
was on the Hill [st week for the pur-
pose of making preparations for bepin-
ning work. He spent most of his time
while here engaging houses and board
for his workmen; buying material for
the gymnasium, and making such other
plans necessary for beginning work im-
mediately.

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
OF S. FOC. MERTS

ed

Y. M. C. A. HEARS
“THE CALL OF THE WAR”

At a meeting of the Executive Com
mittee of Statesville Female College,
held at Davidson, April and, a delega
tion of six ladies from Statesville, ac-
companied by Dr. J. N. Moore, Pres

JUST RECEIVED

New Line of Sport and Dress Hats.
Also, a New Line of Children’s Hees.

Wallace-Brough Millinery Co.
At Goodrom’s Store.

For Sale

A SIX ROOM COTTAGE

On North Main St. joining
Mrs. Young's.

Lot is 150 Front By 300 Feet Deep.
R. F. Andrews, Davidson, N.C.

In the Y. M. C. A. meeting — last
‘Thursday night L. A. Chambliss gave a
striking address. entitled “The Call ot
War.” At certain times in our lives we} ident of the College, appeared hefore the
has received two donations. One thru/come across great truths of life and 9a] commitice. ‘They asked for its consent
the Polity Club, which consists of! ture which make us suddenly serious and’ 4, 4 proposed change in the name of th
“American World Politics,” by Walter| thoughtful. “Taking up the great move-| college, from Statesville Female Col-
F. Wevl; “The New Protectionism,” by|ments of the time, the speaker pointed) j.46 ta Mitchell Memorial College.
|. A. Hobson; and “Why Men Fight," |out how it was a possibility that man} The name was selected in memory. of
by Bertrand Russell, The other dona-{of them might be fulfillment: of the) pe Elisha Mitchell, who lost his life on
tion was seven volumes of the “Brass| Bible prophecies. He pointed out that] the mountain which bears his name, and
Foundation Library,” given by Lake| this religious dispensation, according t0} atcg in memory of his two daughters,
Forest University, as follows: ‘“The| the prophecies, might be almost com-| who had charge of the college for a
Bible, Its Origin and Nature,” by Mar-|pleted; in the first place, as the Gospel) number of years. The change will very
cus Dods; “The Problem of the Old had peer reached tHruout the whole probably be made, ,
Testament.” by James Orr; “Sources of} world and in every land. Rain the Jaraes ; r
Religious insche by Bovce; “The Bi-| great Zionistic_movement—that of the F Mesdames M. R. Adame, J. aie
ble of Nature.” by J. Arthur Thomson ;| Jews back to Jerusalem—is a startling Webb nd B. F Lon; ‘all of States.
“Faith Justified ‘by Progress.” by} fact when considered along with the ville, composed the delegation of ladies.
Wright; “The Religions of Modern|orophecies. Before the war, societies of The Nubers of the Fxecutive Com.
Svria and Palestine,” by Bliss, and ‘““The| Jews were formed to consider the means mittee present were: Drs J. B. Shear-
Mythical Interpretation of the Gospels.” | of carrying their people back to the Holy er Chairman -CM Richards. C. F.
by Thomas Tames Tharborn.-: This is] Land and there establishing a Jewish gov- Ravnall and Mr. W. F. Hall.

a valuable addition to our already large|ernment. And now it is proposed.) “°° * comme .

library and should be used by everyone.|should the British take Judea and Jerus- ; ;
. alem, to turn that historical land over tol At a meeting of the drill company

Dr. Martin and Dr. Sentelle atrended|the Jews and allow them to rule them-| Wednesday night the following officers
the meeting of Mecklenburg Presbytery|selves. Another movement is in connec-} were elected: Bob Walker. Captain ;
lact Wednesdav at Philadelphia Church. | tion with the prophecy that at the end of B. D. Roddy. First Lieutenant; C. W.
There was a larbe representation, and|this dispensation man should trust in Angle, Second Liteutenant; R. P. Rich-
all reports were filed and were verv en-|himself for salvation instead of in God.| ardson, First_ Sergeant; W. N. Me-
couraging. The report of Davidson} Todav there are many sects holding such| bane, Right Guide; J. D. Ware, Left
College was submitted at the fall meet-| beliefs that sweep the world, such as Guide ; W. D. Lawson and J. B. Sizer,
ing. Christian Science. a belief that thought! Line Sergeants.

NEW LIBRARY BOOKS.

During the past week the Library

BOOKS.-STATIONARY-NOVELTIES

Brockmann’s

224 S. TRYON ST. CHARLOTTE. N. C.

SALESMEN WANTED ¢o solicit
orders for lubricating oils, greases and
paints. Salary or Commission. Address
LINCOLN O51 CO., Cleveland, O.
