Vol. V.

Annual Bible Study
Rally Held Thursday

Dr. D. Clay Lilly Makes Address.
Classes Are Formed.

‘The annual Y. M. C. A. Bible Study
rally meeting was conducted on “Phurs-
day night. September 27, by Dr. D.
Clay Lilly, of Winston-Salem. A large
audience was out to hear him.

Dr. Lily spoke on the value of Bible
study, and chose his text from the Par-
able of the Sower, Matt. 13:23: “But
he that received seed into the good
ground is he that heareth the word. and
understandeth it.” Dr. Lilly drew a
contrast between this and the eighteenth
verse, where “One heareth the word of
the kingdom and understandeth it not.”
‘The one heard and understood and bore
fruit exceedingly, whereas the other un
derstood not and wastefulness resulted.
The difference between the two Jay in
the key word “understand.”

So we are not only to read but to
understand the Gospel, the Word of
Life. ‘There are two methods of Bible
reading. First, we may read it devo-
tionally, and Dr. Lilly emphasized the
great need of this in every Christian's
life. Second, it can be read from the
standpoint of the student. As an ex-
ample Dr. Lilly read the passage from
Genesis describing itve’s temptation.
‘The reader who is no analyzer is apt to
be swept awav by mere wonder at the
incident. “he analyzing reader, haw-
ever, will observe on close study that
Satan leads the sinner to err by three
steps: First, ridicules the — restriction
that binds him; second, denies the pen
alty; third, promises rewards.

Likewise the close student will see in
the nineteenth Psalm the glory, of God’s
firmanent, the comprehensiveness of His
law, and lastly, fecl his own frailty in
comparison with such.

Such a study, said Dr. Lilly, enables
us to recognize more fully the precious
truths of the Scriptures whenever we
turn to them. Hence, this study is to
be a supplement to our devotional read-
ing. Such a study is the purpose of the
Bible study classes this fall.

At the close of the meeting the sub-
jects and respective leaders for the vari-
ous Bible Study classes were announced,
and everyone was asked to sign for one
of these classes. About one hundred
have signed.

The courses and respective teachers
are:

Christianizing Community Life: R.
H. Stone, J. TV. Maddrev.
The Meaning of Praver: W. C.

Cumming, H. T. Lilly.
Mormonism: The Islam of America:

G. C. Bellingrath, J. A. Thames.

The Words and Teachings of the
Earlier Prophets: Dr. Arbuckle. J. R.
Woods.

The American Indian on the New
‘Trail: J. 1. Fowle (class limited to
Freshmen), R. W. Cousar.

‘The Social Principles ot Jesus: H.
M. Grey, J. B. Daffin.

The Bible as a Source .o1 Modern

Prof. A. Currie.

Law:

nm nm a re a a

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON. N. C.. OCTOBER 3, 1917.

Tennis Tournament
Began on Monday

Red and Black Plays
A. & E. in Raleigh

First Game of State Championship
Next saturday.

Eight Teams in Doubles, Twenty-
Seven tater Singles.

Davidson meets her nrst contender tor
the state championsmip next Saturday
when she plays ci. & L., at Kateign, tt
is hard to form) an exact estimate of the
strength of the two ‘eas tins early ttt
the season. bach nave played onty one

Ar a meeting of the “Pennis club, W.
Hall, ‘20, was elected manager tor
this vear. He has charge of arranging
the annual tennis tournament. the
schedule tor- the tournament das been
made out and is printed below. — Uhe

game, Wavidson Neid the Navy 27 10 0.1 first sets were plaved Monday afternoon,
AL & bk. deteated Guntord 19 10 0-| Qetober 1

From this comparative score it woutd
appear that Davidson has the edge on her
contender. Coach betzers warriors are
ready for the tray, and. after another
week of practice, the Ked and track
machine should be in shape to repeat tne
teat ot last: year. to. . during this tournament. “The finals will

Forecasts trom the A..& b.. predict 4] probably be played same time next week.
good team for this year, the average |" pywenty sevens men have entered the
eeght veng 165. Vavidsun, thouge singles and cight teams have entered the
outweighed by her opponent. will have] qoubles,
ne cage mm experience, 7k, & EL has
five old men back, including Captarn
Homewood. Lhe rest of the team: is
imide up in the large part af new ima
aterial. Davidson has four “D" men,
and six "D.C." men, With these me. | ey; J. BL Woods and J. R. Woods vs.
as a nucleus, “Coach” is building up a Spence and W. oF. Hall, Jr bo As
strong team. Spann, lowers, Burns) Woods and Kennedy vs. Cunningham
and Crouch in the backfield; King and] yd tawkins. ;

Richardson at end, and Elliott, Rooson.| Single Katies) R. Co Garth vs. FE.
Crouch, Grey and Shaw in the line, are] \. Woods: Manning vs. Gaither; J. R.
making the Red and Black jmachine | Woods vs. C. W. Worth: Kornegay vs.
ake on its old-time form. Marcover | shields: Spence vs. Miller; Hamilton
here are a number of strong men ts Flinn. Kennedy vs. A. L. Wilson,
fall back on as substitutes, McAlistes | rollister vs. E.G. Lilly; Barnett vs. J.
showing up well in the backfield. B. Woods: Cunningham vs. Forges ;

One interesting fact about the con Toy nand vs. Daflin: Mahad vs. Flaw
test is that Jack Black's brother will bef iing: ELT. silly vs. witmer in above:
found playing left end for the AL & be [Wl oe) Hall fr. vs. We ML Jones.
‘This is his first year ot collegiate foot nN hs
ball.

Davidson will probably. use the same
line-up as against the Navy.

A. & E. wll probably use the follow
ing line-up: Left end, Black ; left tackle,
Homewood: left: guard, Wagoner: cen-
ter, Garrett: right guard, Floyd; right
tackle, Wagner: right) end, Brown;
quarter, McQuinn; left half, Gurley ;
right half. McMurray; full, Murray.

‘The plivers have been — practising
regularly since college opened and some
interesting matches will be played.

The courts have been scraped off and
leveled and are ine excellent condition.
‘The lovers of tennis will be given a treat

The drawing ior the tournaments are
as follows:

Double Entries —Kornegay and Gaith-
er vs. C. RB. Robeson and C. W. Worth;
Daftin and Mahuad vs. Jones and Mill

‘.

SUNDAY SCHOOL ‘TO BE
HELD IN ‘THE MORNING

Ata meeting of the session last Sun
dav morning tt was decided that the
hour of Sunday Scheal be changed to +0
o’clack inthe moraing.  ‘Uhis plan is te
be tried out ter sin weeks, “Phere are
two reasons for this: first. it is hoped
that there will be a better Bible class
among the men; secondly, the young
people of the charch intend organizing
a Christian Endeavor Society. Sunday
School will start next Sunday, October

7. at 10 0'clock.

MLLINERY OPENING
HELD LAST FRIDAY

The Wallace Brough millinery open-
ing was held Friday night, September
28. ‘This proved to be one ot the most
attractive openings ever held at David
son, not only because of pretty display
ot hats, but also because ot the artistic

During the past week the tollowing
elections have taken place:
Student Body: Vice-president, S. M.

manner in which the store was decorat- Crilbert; Secretary and ‘Preasurer, A.D.
ed. ‘Vhe color scheme was carried out McArn, , ; ; :
in yellow and white. which made every Senior Class: Historian 1. M

Vhomas, Jr.; Secretary and ‘Vreasurer

thing vers attractive. hon |
G3. C. Bellingrath,

NO'PICE.

‘The management. of “Par Davinson -
IAN regret that the last two issues have
heen delayed. ‘Mhis delay is due to the
unsettled conditions cased by the war.
The camp at Charlotte overcrowds the
present express facilities and delays the
return of the paper from Charlotte. We
are attempting to solve the trouble and
get the paper to the subscribers on the
usual date.

This is how Davidsan’s opponents of
the 1917 season came out fast Saturday:

Vi MM. 1. 15: Hampden Sydney, ty.

AL & b.. 19; Guilford, o,

Georgia “Vech.. 27; Furman, o. ;

Georgia Tech. 34; Wake Forest. o.
(Double header). |
Clemson, 13; Presbyterian College. o.

The cheerful giver is alwavs the one
who gives much.— Ex.

No. 4

Navy Defeats Davidson
In Opening Game

Flowers Makes 70-Yard Run for
Davidson’s Touchdown.

In the opening game ot the season.
in which both teams showed lack of con
dition, Davidson was defeated by, the
Navy eleven at Annapolis on Saturday.
by- the score of 27 to 0. “The game be
gan -promplty at 2:30. Nis receiving
the kickoff. Vhey were held tor downs,
and punted. Davidson was also unable
to pain, and an exchange ot punts fol
lowed, in. which Grey clearly had the
hetter ot his opponent. ln this quarter
Davidson was mainiy on the detensive
and near the end ot the period the Nava
registered three touchdowns. Davidson
wits! foreed to mitke several substitutions
on AcHUAT OF Murtes.

The second quarter was much faster.
neither side scoring. “Phe last: half wes
featured Won zo-vard run around lett
end by blowers, which resulted: in) Dav
idson’s anly touchdown. “Vhis run, with
the detensive work at Burns and the
punting of CGirev, were the teatures of the
game fiom the Davidson standpoint.

Twenty two men were taken on the
trip, all-ot whan were at some time tn
the game.  Uhe game wis the source 6),
much. valuable expenence to the team.
This willebe of great help to the men
during the coming season,

The Washington) Herald contained
the following account with the line-up:

“The Carolinians fought 4 dogped
game all the wav, but it casily became
apparent that the Navy offensive was
inuch’ more pawertal and the Middies
registéred three touchdowns or the lirst
period of pha. “Phe Middies are being
coached: this vear hy Gilmour Dobie.
who made sach a phenomenal success as
the mentor of the University of Wash
ington tora number at verry, Phe work
ef his charges in their initial game show
ed all earmarks that a. fast and powertal
team will he the resale af his: efforts.
The line-up and summary 2"

DAVIDSON. POSITION | NAVY
King IF ~.. Smith
Shaw a Schilhaney
Cirey. LG. ~. Dulin
Croich, Wm. Cc. _. Arthur
Robson. RG Caldwell
Mite. RT. . Scoffe
Richardson RE. wine
Spann. . QB . Ing ran
McAlister, Lb. Lu . Robert.
Crouch. Creo, RH. . Buttes
Burns. LPB... Mortin

Referee: Mr. Pennage, of Dartmouth:
vampire: Mr. ‘Uvler, of Princeton: head
linesmani: Mr. Williams, of University
of Pennsylvania. “Vimee of periods: 12
minutes.

Ata meeting of “Tite Davinsoy tas
Staff. last week Wo OM. Currie. “19. and
H.C. Hamilton, (20. were clected to the
Reporters’ Staff ta fill the yacancic
cagsed by the failure of W."P fohason,
Jr and V. bE Gus to return this fall

Vhat greatest painter of all the Au
tumn -is about to -pread a feast ot color
over all the landscape.” Scientific
American,

THE UNIVERSAL OBJECT OF ENVY: A GRACEEUL SPEAKER
