4

SATISFACTION is SHOWN
OVER WORK ON GYM

The Alumni Gymnasium, which has
been the subject of so much discussion,
is now well under way and bids fair to
fulfill all hopes and expectations. It is
true, the swimming pool is not to be con-
structed now, which is a source of great
disappointment to the students, yet it is
hoped it will follow within a few years.
Altho the following information oppear-
ed in a previous copy of THe Daviv-
SONIAN, it might be well to reprint it for
the benefit of those who did not see it.

The building is to be of brick. ‘The
basement being above the ground, it will
be practically three stories high. Above
the basement, where team rooms, show-
er rooms, and lockers, will be found, is
the main floor of the gymnasium room,
58 feet 2 inches by go feet 10 inches,
with a balcony on three sides. “he floor
of this room is of hard maple, and the
trusses overhead of steel; the pitch is
two stories,

In front of the gymnasium proper are
two tiers of rooms. On the first floor
to the -right of the wide lobby is the
auxiliary gymnasium, 26 feet by 30 feet
2 inches; on the left is the directors’
office and two rooms for physical exami-
nations. In the tier above is found liv-

The DAVIDSONIAN May 9, 1917

Fae

[
ge

1917 Baseball Team

Summary of Baseball
For Last Season

ing quarters for the director and a club Despite Batting Slump, the Team
*

room.

The building is 91 by 95 feet 6 inches,
outside dimensions, with a high pillared
porch in front. ‘I'he whole is colonial
in character. ‘The swimming pool is de-
signed to communicate with the base-
ment of this building and to be in a sep-
arate enclosure on the south side. Funds
for this, owing to the unexpected great
advance in cost of building, are not now
on hand, but it is hoped to add it soon.

‘Twenty-five thousand dollars is avail-
able, and every dollar will be expended
to complete the work just as far as pos-
sible.

The foundation has been laid and the
walls are now up to the basement win-
dows and rising rapidly.

The building completed will stand as
a memorial of the interest and affection
of the Alumni for their old college, and!
it is the place of THe Davivsonian
to express the gratitude and good feel-
ing of the student body to the Alumni
for the gift of this beautiful gymnasium.

MISS LILLIAN SHAW
WINS A CARNEGIE MEDAL

The people of Davidson and especially
the students of Davidson College will,
be interested to know that Miss Lillian,
Shaw, a niece of Miss Cornelia Shaw's
and head of the “Physical Mducational
department of Swarthmore College,
Philadelphia, has been awarded a Car-
negie hero medal and $1,600 for extraor-
dinary bravery in rescuing a young wo-
man from drowning in Red Bank River,
near Philadelphia, last summer.

According to the Philadelphia Rec-
ord, Miss Chester Barry, of Clarksville,
Tenn., became ill while swimming in the
river, and called for help. Miss Shaw
jumped into the water to rescue her
and was drawn under by Miss Barry.
However, she managed to regain the
surface and kept afloat until both were
rescued by two men.

Miss Shaw formerly lived in Char-
lotte and was a student at Queens Col-

Showed up Well.

The baseball season just closed, altho
much abbreviated by war cancellations,
has been on the whole a most creditable
and successful one. Rounding into shape
slowly, the Red and Black nine develop-
ed game by game until toward the lat-
ter part of the season they were going in
great style. “Phe record stands, eight vic-
tories, six defeats, and one tie, While
not such a brilliant showing on percent-
age, the games won were almost without
exception with old rivals and were game:
which meant much in the winning. A.
and E., Wake Forest and the University
of Georgia were among those who bit
the dust. Davidson lost a hard-fought
series with Carolina and tied with ‘Trin-
ity, but aside from this the rest nearly
all resulted in) decisive victories. By
comparative scores Coach Fetzer'’s ma-
chine ranks with any in the State, and
had it not been for the Carolina series.
the title of State Champions would be
unquestioned.

“Vhe defensive and offensive work ot
the team, while at times brilliant, was
far from steady. Frequent changes duc
to new outtielders is largely responsible
for this. ‘he pitching staff this year
wis as strong as could be — desired.
“Dutch” Hengeveld was the mainstay
in the box ,and his work. was of the
highest order. As Mike Finn, the De-
troit scout; will testify, Lawson shared
honors with Hengeveld, and his pitching
was steady and strong at all times. Bill
must be rated as thé “hard-luck” pitcher
this year, and any man who showed as
much stuff as he did in the Carolina
game certainly deserved to win it. The
infield was practically the same this year
as last, with the exception of catcher,
where Les Alford's loss was keenly felt.
Sammy Keesler caught a steady game all
season, but lacked the stick work of last
year's star. Pete Saunders at first base
had probably his best season at first, go-

lege. She was a frequent visitor at Dav-]ing errorless all season, but his stick

idson and made many friends while here.

The students of Davidson College
will feel doubly interested because of her
relationshin with our librarian, Miss

Cornelia Shaw.

The Christian Endeavor speaking con-
test will be held May 19, in Shearer
Hall.

Mics Steele spent the week-end in

work fell down considerably from last
year. Captain Black at third played
wonderful ball at times, but lacked his
usual steadiness and stick ability. John-
son at second also failed to come up to
his last year’s standard. At. Wood
gave promise of even a better season this
year than last, but his hoodoo pursued
him, this time in the shape of a broken
arm early in the season. Yank Boswell
at short filled his shoes most admirably,

Red Springs with her sister, who is sick.| fielding sure and fast, but his batting

‘action—all unnecessary parts

was none too good. In the outfield Zeb
McMillan was the only regular of last
year to be present. Zeb was more than
there with the goods, too, leading the
team in slugging, and fielding in fine
style. Flowers broke into the game in
left field carly in the season and became
a fixture. His fielding was fast and of
the surest type, but his batting suffered
the prevailing slump. John Pharr play-
ed steady ball in right field and was sec-
ond in the batting list. Miller also
played a great many games in the out-
field and showed up well.

On the whole the individual players
were decidedly off color, in some cases
due to inexperience, especially in the bat-
ting line. But one should not forget the
team-work which won the big games.
“This was what counted, and much of the
credit for this is due to Coach “Bill”
Fetzer, who always builds up a winning
team.

ARE YOU COMING?

Kollowing are some reasons why
young men should go to college next
year:

First: Because in the next genera-
tion the educated men of America will
have the greatest advantage and the
greatest opportunity in an economic way
that have come to trained men in modern
times, Our country is facing an era of
unprecedented prosperity. “Chere will
be losses and sacrifices incident to our
participation in the war, but the total
result will be beneficial. “Phere will be
an elimination of evils and a solidifica-
tion of interests that will increase many
fold our power and efficiency as a_na-
tion. In economic affairs we will lead
the world. We will go through a process
like the stripping of a battleship — for
will be
thrown overboard and the entire ship
brought to the point of highest efficiency.
The educated men will be the captains
and commanders. Do you wish to be a
captain or a stoker in the financial, in-
dustrial and commercial dreadnaughts
we are building? Your education will
largely decide your rank.

Second. Because in the next few
decades the world will look to America
for trained leaders. “Thousands of young
men, fresh from college and university
walls, the best brains and blood of Eu-
rope and destined to have been leaders
in world affairs .have fallen on battle-
fields of Europe. Some of our own
young men will doubtless suffer the
came fate. Many European boys who
have come to college age during the last
three years were not able to go to col-
lege; others, after the war is over, will
be unable to go because of loss of parent
or property, or both. American college

trained men must come to the rescue.
Only a few weeks ago the writer was
told by a gentleman conversant with
conditions in Canada, that thousands of
Americans were going into that country
to take the place of business and profes-
sional men who have gone to the front.
England, France, Germany and the oth-
er warring nations have suffered much
more than Canada. In 1920, the world
will be sadly in need, of trained leaders.
Russia today would welcome thousands
of our educated men to help organize
and develop that great country. Our
business leaders are calling for hundreds
of college men to be trained for man-
agerial and administrative positions.
Latin America and the Fast East, here-
tofore under European control in eco-
nomic affairs, offer marvelous oppor-
tunities for American enterprise and gen-
ius. The National City Bank, of New
York City, realizing that we are to take
a leading place as the world’s bankers,
is training scores of college men to take
charge of its agencies to be established in
foreign countries, What young man is
not inspired by the thought of filling
some of these positions of great power
and influence? A college education is
a prerequisite.

Third. Because Southern young men
will have, the means, certainly for the
next few years, with which to obtain a
college education. Any youth with en-
ergy and thrift can earn enough money
during the summer vacation to defray a
large part of his college expenses the
coming session. There was never before
in this country such a demand for men
in all kinds of work or positions. Farm- _
ing, manufacturing, mining and lumber-
ing, the great indushries of the South,
are more profitable than they have been
for years. Money will be plentiful in
this section for some years to come and
all forms of business will prosper. The
large expenditure of funds by the Fed-
eral Government will stimulate produc-
tion and trade to an unusual degree.
Lack of means should not keen any en-
ergetic young man out of college next
year,

Lastly. Why should the young man
boing to college select a church college?
Because in a church college religious and
moral training is stressed as much as the
intelectual and physical development.
And, what the world needs and wants
is Christian young men for leaders, with
not only trained minds and bodies, but
with a deep religious faith and a strong
moral character. The church college
aims to give just this training to young
men who come under its influence.

Young man, do not miss the oppor-
tunitv of a lifetime, of a century, even,
bv failing to get a college education
within the next four years. Bv the time
you graduate from college, the world
will be in a new epoch, and the college
trained men will determine the course
of this new era in world history. What
will be your share in this great task ?

“QUIPS AND CRANKS”
APPEARS ON CAMPUS

If for no other reason, the class of
1917 will ever be remembered by us
as having been the publishers of one of
the best Annuals ever edited at David-
son. An attempt at a review of it can
only bring forth this statement: ‘It is
all fine.” No doubt there may be room
for improvement here and there, for it
can't be perfect, but it may well be add-
ed to the already long list of concrete
examples of “What Davidson Can Pro-
duce.”

It is a limp back book of over two
hundred and fifty pages.

Dr. Arbuckle spoke last week at Back
Creek, Rowan County.

The Misses Young spent the week-
end in Salisbury with friends,
