4

Ihe DAVIDSONIAN. October 31, 1917

| ALUMNI NOTES |

H. M. Marion, ‘14, will graduate at
Harvard Medical College, February 12,
1918. He is living at 1071 Beacon St.
Brookline, Mass.

* °

J. F. Wilson, ex-'16, is a Senior in the
Medical Department of the University:
of Georgia.

*

A. F. Forgartie, ex-'15, will graduate

at Louisville Theological Seminary in
May, 1918.

@

*

George S. Thornton, ex-'15, is a sar-
geant in the Regular Army, located now
at Camp Pike, Little Rock. Ark.

* * ¢

L. D. McKinnon, '17, who is in 117th
Field Hospital Corps, 105 $. T., Camp
Sevier, Greenville, §. C., was on the Hill
last. week.

‘

C. R. Wilson, ex-"15, is a merchant at
Arlington, Tenn.
* * ;

Rev. J. A. McQueen, ‘05, of Dil-
lon, S. C., was married to Miss An-
toinette Long, of Farmington, N. C..
October 24, 1917.

ia

‘

N. E. Buchanan, ex-’14, is with the

Ford Motor Co.. at Charlotte. N.C.
* * *

Walter William Moore was born in
Charlotte. N.C. June ty. 6857. He ts
of Scotch-lrish extraction. His avademic
training was begun ins the Charlotte
High Schools; A.B.. Davidson College,
1878, Union Theological Seminary,
1878-81; D.D.. Central University,
1885; LU.D., Davidson College, 1892;
Evangelist, Swannanoa, N. C., 1881-'82;
Pastor, Millersburg, Ky., 1882-'83; Pro-
fessor of Hebrew Language dnd Old
Testament Exegesis, Union Seminary,
1883-1912; President and Lecturer on
Biblical Literature, Union Seminary.
since 1904; Lecturer, McCormick Sem-
inary, 1895; Stone Lecturer, Princeton
Seminary, 1897; Member of Interna-
tional Sunday School Lesson Committee.
1900-'05 ; Moderator Synod of Virginia,
1899: Moderator General Assembly,
1908. Author: A Year in Europe,
1904; The Indispensable Book, 1910;
Appreciations and Historical Addresses,
1914. He will deliver the Otts Lectures
at Davidson next year. He has been
President of Union Seminary since 1905.

The students are all glad to hear that
N. S. Richards will soon be out again.
Another X-ray was made last week. It
showed that the broken limb was mend-
ing fast. It is probable that he can be
hack in Davidson by the end of this week.

The young man in college or out of
college who sins against his body so as
to unifit himself for higher service is a
suicide, so far as any help to the Gov-
ernment is concerned.Governor Bickett.

in the State.”

cold, but this was scarcely noticeable
DRAWING NEAR RAPIDLY | after he started in his speech. It had
been hoped that the Secretary could
The Senior Class is rapidly disposing] spend a large part of the day in Char-
of the problems which confront every|lotte, but he was obliged to leave soon
graduating class. A committee has been| after his speech was finished. Only a
appointed by the president, J. B. Daffin,| few from Davidson heard him, as Gov-
to offer saggestions for a class gift to} ernor Bickett delivered an address at
the college, and will report at an early| Shearer Hall the same day.
date. Master John Monroe Douglas,

son of Dr. J. M. Douglas. has been elect- MANY LIBERT YRONDS

ed class mascot.
‘The plans for Seniar Speaking, to be SOLD IN DAVIDSON

held November jo-December 2, are be-
ing laid now, and soon absent-minded} Up to 1 o'clock Saturday the Bank of
Seniors will be repeating bursts of elo-j| Davidson had sold Liberty Bonds
quence in season and out. “The programs| amounting to $14,500, with several hours
have been ordered from Everett-Waddeyj still remaining to sell to any one who
Co.. of Richmond, Va. Vhe Orchestra] wished them. Bank officials were con-
and Glee Club will give a concert. as, fident that the total sales would amount
usual, on Saturday night, after the forty-, to not far from $20,000 before the clos-
eight Seninrs have successfully endured]ing hour. There were many purchasers
the ordeal. of the bonds, some of the — largest

The dignified Seniors desiring to befamounts being. one of $5.000, one of
carried further than a Ford, and with|$1,500, three of $1.000, and numbers
a speed greater than that of anv son offof $100 and $50 bonds. This was a
Nancy Hanks, have purchased one of|good showing for a town the size of
those things which is more exhilirating}] Davidson and was guod evidence that

SENIOR SPEAKING IS

JACK TAR

16 MADE WITH
THIS OVAL
BUT TONHOLE

A NEW STYLE IN

fon (oHars

IN AMERICA

OLOEST GRAND
UNITED SHIAT 4 COLLAR CO . TROY.N.

Kodak Developing

CUSHMAN’S STUDIO
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
L. C. BRAND, : 77 Chambers

than a ton of ‘Tanlac, more sustaining|the people of town are behind the Gov- If it's FARM LANDS, CITY PROPERTY,

than the fattest porker in the land, and}ernment in the war. Of this amount
more comforting to the inner man than|each class, two fraternities and three in-
‘possum and potataes—in other words,|dividuals made their subscriptions thru
they have bought a Liberty Bond. This{the Davidson Bank.

bond has been turned over to the college
e
The Bank of Davidson

and will be added to the funds of Dav-
DAVIDSON, N. C.

idson College.

The Juniors have followed in’ the
steps of the graduating class, and it is
hoped the other classes will follaw suit.

qu]

| Does Commercial Banking,
Runs a Savings’ Departm't.,

LINE-UP OF FURMAN
Has Lock Boxes For Rent.

IN SA'TURDAY'S GAME

Vhe victorious Davidson team will Your business is solicited
journey to Greenville, S. C., next Sat-
urday ta plav Furman University. The
apnual game with this institution is gen-
erally looked upon as a practice affair.
However, this year Furman promises us
+ veal game. To begin with, she has a
ecod coach in Laval, who is assisted by
Sunth, of Swathmore. The Furman
“Hornet” claims that “. . . these two
men form perhaps the best coaching staff
As evidenced by their
work, they are efficient coaches. Despite
the lass of séven of last year’s best play-
ers and the scarcity of material this year,
these men have succeeded in building up
a light but speedy and pluck team. The
team has a fighting spirit that makes
them fight in the face of all odds. They
held Georgia Tech. to a 25-0 score and
succeeded in making their sister institu-
tion, Wake Forest, feel its sting of de-
feat by the score of 7-6. In these en-
counters the stars for Furman have been
“Speedy” Speer, Waters and Shirley.
The latter is one of last year’s stars and
mainstays. In Furman Davidson will
find a plucky and well coached team
that will fight to the last. On the other
hand Davidson, with Burns back in the
game, should present her most formid-
able machine.

The probable line-up of furman will
be: Boyd, center; Jones, right guard;
Sims. left guard; Carson. right tackle;
Brown, left tackle; Shirley, right end;
Wright. left end; Gregory, quarterback ;
Speer, left halfback: Waters, right half-
back; Gressett, fullback.

Jobn L, Douglas, Pres.,W.4. Thompson, Cob.
J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres,, C. A. Potts, Asst. Cab. =

FA COTM TONE TUE

|

A. H. Fetting

Manufacturer of

Greek Letter
Fraternity Jewelry

213 N. Liberty St., Baltimore, Md.
Special designs and estimates
furnished on medals, rings,
for athletic meets, etc.

Presbyterian Theological
Seminary

Louisville Kentucky

Full staff of Professors. Cur-

ticulum modern and compre-
hensive, with practical training.
Unusually good Library facili-

ties. Comfortable dormitories

and home life for students.

SECRETARY McADOO

SPEAKS IN CHARLOTTE Write the President

At a fitting climax to Charlotte's
magnificent drive for the second Liberty
Loan, Secretary of Treasury McAdoo
made a ringing speech on_ patriotism
there last Thursday. Especially did he
urge every loyal American to buy a Lib-
erty Bond, forcibly and clearly showing
that it was not only a duty but a privi-
lege extended to every American “to
make the world safe for Democracy.”
The Secretary was handicapped: by a

Charles R. Hemphill
TQ THE SENIOR CLASS:

guaranteed to satisfy.
Call on me.

. I am at your service for the typing of
your Senior Speeches at lowest prices.
called for and delivered on time, and work

A. S. POTTS, 43 Chambers.

BUILDING, RENTS, INSURANCE
or BONDS that you want
see the

Thies-Smith Realty Co.,
200 Commeroial Bidg., Charlotte,&.C.

MECKLENBURG
and
STONEWALL

AT CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Rates: $1.00 and Up

J. P. SAUNDERS, President

BOOKS-STATIONARY-NOVELTIES

Brockmann’s

224 S. TRYON ST. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

| Thos. E. Wilson & Go.

Unconditionally guarantee all their
sporting goods and athletic equip-
ment to give the satisfactory service
which you think they should give.
We leave the decision to you. Your
own sense of fair play decides. Our
dealers are authorized to abide by
your judgment, and to adjust any
claim you make.

Official and Standard
Athletic Equipment

Be sure vou find the Wilson trade
mark on your

Football Equipment, Basket-
ball equipment, Sweaters,
Shoes, Indoor League Balls,
Bats and Equipment,
Golf Clubs, Golf Balls

_ and Equipment,
Tennis, Track and Gymnasi-
_um Equipment,
Fishing Tackle, etc.

Work

One carbon copy free.

