The time to immediately subscribe to
Liberty Bonds is just past. However,

The Davidsonian

Pablished every Wedacsday of the College Year| jt will be good to keep the next float in
by the Stodents of Davidsoe College. —_| mind. But there is an immediate duty
Eprrotia. Boarp. now. Laking for granted that you have

R. H. Stone.......... Editor-in-Chief | Subscribed to THe DAVIDBON IAN tt he
Lilly... ...0ee ; : now your privilege, Gentlemen of the

Ee G. cilly oe, eaaaing Editor Alumni, to subscribe to The Davidson
J. A. Thames......... Alumni Editor| College Magazine. The management
. of this publication informs us that last
Tue Starr. year outside of the college (student body

L. M. Thomas, Jr. R. FE. McClure | and faculty) there was only one name
J. B. Woods, Jr. A. P. Saunders | on the subscription list. ‘This is a shame.
J. B. Daffin J. B. Woods | We can truly say that good reading
MANAcEMERT. comes out thru this organ. Does it not

O. J. Thies, Jr Business Manager| S°°™ reasonable that one who in years
0c Williamson Circulation Manager| 8°" by had nF aided this et sa (bru
. its career should have acquired such an

M. A. Siske , interest in it that he would give his sub-
T. C. Stone....... Assistant: Managers scription and keep up with the literary
R. D. Hall development and production? Not only

to these do we appeal, but to the general
alumni, that you aid this publication.

Reporters’ STAFF.

Class of 's8—S. T. McCloy, D. M.
Orgain.

Class of '19—W. T. Dunlap, Jr., W.
M. Currie.

Class of ’20—L. G. Calhoun, D. W.
Roberts, D. M. Chalmers, Wm.
Love, G. A. Byrd, Jr.. H. C. Ham-
ilton.

CLASSES BUY LIBERTY KONDS.

Within ten minutes after the David-
son College Day hour there was « move-
ment on foot to buy bonds. ‘The Senior
Class at once, spontaneously, said that
they should have a part in this.  Fol-
lowing this patriotic precedent the Jun-
ior and Sophomore Classes had to have a
part in this, and they, too, did their bit
and purchased bonds. ‘The colleges gen-
erally took a big part in this issue, and
Davidson was in the rank —both among
the faculty and classes.

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THF. COL-
LEGIATF. YFAR.

fatered as second-class matter at the Postoffice,
Davideon, N. C.

-_*- 4 eee ee oe 1 ee HF oF

EDITORIAL .

ar & & # & * HH eH

How about that meatless, wheatless,
and sugarless day? Some of the board-
ing heuses have made this response and
did it readily. All have not done it.
We appeal to you once again that this
movement be instituted. “This is on the
same principle as Liberty Loan Bonds.
Do ft Now.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE DAY.

This was a day of loyalty and patriot-
sim thru and thru. [te was first loyal to
its own history, institutions, customs and
alumni—both the honored dead and fiv-
ing. ‘he incidents related by the ven-
erated alumnus were fitting and added
to the historic clement of the memorial
lay.

Following the tributes to alumni and
student body came the great speecn of
Gevernor Bickett. It was patriotic, loyal.
and inspiring thruout. No one but a
master could have said what he said. He
has a wenderful faculty of hun.er and
earnestness. Many times he lapsed into
eloquence. He won the admiration and
endeared himself to students from cvery
State represented here as weli as io the
people of the town. His speech made
bin the “oniversal object of envy.”

AGAIN, THAT SPEECH,

Some time ago we made an appeal to
those members of the student body to
hetd their little grammatical slips. In
our general reading and study we find
many striking phrases carrying the point
which we wish we could publish. “The
immortal William was right when he
said, “You speak not as you think: it
cannot be.”

The truth. of the matter is that many
of us do not think before speaking. If
you want to ruin yourself (addressing
only those of us who are guilty) there
is nothing better to do than Keep It Up.
“He don’t,” “he come,” “it ain't” and a
thousand others “cannot be.” Fellows!
in the name of all that is pure and beau-
tiful in our language and speech we im-
plore you for your sake to stop this. Do
It Now!

“wo's GoT THE PED.”

“We gat the pep." Pajamas and
shirt-tails galore graced this old campus
and surroundings Saturday night. It
was the return of old times. Fron the
joyous-green Freshman to the joyous-
reverent and jovous-grave Senior many
took part in this nightly revel and en-
joved thie spirited hullabaloo and the
words of encouragement by members of
the facuity. This shows how the team
is supported by the student body. Loy-
alty was seen in its essence.

This part of college life is an enjoy-
able feature. “Those of us who are soon
to be alumni like to have those delight-
ful feet-upon-the-table_ reveries, or pipe
dreams—about how the alumni shake
with genuine joy as they recall when
they took part ins such a spooky per-
formance. And when they built an
enormous bon-fire in front of Chambers
and sang everything from Hak-a-raka.
and the “Old family toothbrush that
hangs on the wall,” to “T want a girl,
just like the girl that married denr old
dad” and “College ties can ne'er be
broken, formed at old D.C." If there
was a Freshman who was off the Hill
and did not take part in this parade. he
should get into one soon, i. e., the one
before the Clemson game. which will
likely be a big one.

“SHA-CALVES.”

‘There are those who say that there is
nothing, new under the sun—that there
is nothing original—that everything
which we think today was conceived cen-
turies aga. Then if this is the case there
is a picture found in Odyssey which is
analogous to some aspects of today-ma-
rine life. “The goddess directs the seekers
for Ulysses to the realm of the “Ancient
of the Deep.” In telling of a scene which
is invariably true of Neptune’s subject
she says:

“The sea-calves from the ocean, throng,
Rank with the bitter odor of the brine.
And slumber near Him.”

Isn't this analogous to the submarines
and sub-chasers who guard our trans-
ports across the briny waters?

DEMOCRACY IN COLLEGEWORLDOM.

Mr. F. M. Davenport, of Hamilton
College, in the Outlook. ably discusses
the college in its relation to democracy.
As a democratic institution it has its
failures. In this article there are some
striking sentences. Allow us to quote:

dhe DAVIDSONIAN, October 31, 1917

“The human stock which gravitates
collegeward in the twentieth century in
America is probably as good as human
stock ever was in the history of. the
world.”

“Most college men, 1 am convinced,
put nothing like the energy into the col-
lege career and take out nothing like the
disciplined power for action and for
service which they ought to take.”

It sounds almost like plagiarism, for
President Martin exprest the same idea.
clothed in ahout the same language be-
fore this article came out, when he closes
this fine article with:

“Young men, the colleges are the offi-
cial training camps of the leaders of the
nation.”

He thinks that the college will appre-
ciably rise in the scale of democracy.
This war will throw down a precipitate.
The doctrine of the democratic college
is for the men to have an opportunity, to
take it, and then bend the full capacity
of mind and body into service of their
generation. It.is the age of a fine spirit
of service and accomplishment for dem-
ocracy. A democratic institution needs
men who think and who keep apace with
the rapidly expanding mind of the world.
This is the function of the calleze—to
furnish such men.

GAME WITH AUBURN
TO BE PLAYED IN ATLANTA

At the request of the football fans of
Atlanta. the Davidson schedule now in-
cludes a game with Auburn there and
November to in the place of Caro-
lina’s game. Almost since the opening
of college rumors have been circulated
that this game would be played; but
there was no certainty. The people of

Atlanta are always warm admirers of |

Davidson and her teams, and it is hoped
that the Red and Black machine will
make the creditable showing which has
heretofore characterized its games in
the Georgia metropolis. The fans there
will of course be rather inclined to favor
the opponents of their rivals from Au-
burn.

The relative strength of the teams is
largely a matter of conjecture. David-
son made a wonderful showing against
Georgia Tech, the strongest team in the
South, but Auburn has some wonderful
material this year. Well informed crit-
ics af the game say that Auburn has the
material for a team equal to the teams
of ‘13 and ‘14, but that it is not yet in
shape. Still, Davidson cannot but take
comfort from the fact that Auburn beat
Mississippi Aggies by only 13-7. with
the ball on Auburn's three-vard line at
the end of the game. Davidson's game
with Furman cannot be a verv hard one.
and the team ought to be in excellent
shape when it goes against Auburn. In
anv event, we all feel sure that the team
will make a good showing.

KEFSLER AND BLACK
STAR FOR JACKSON

The newspaper account of the football
game between Camps Wadsworth and
Jackson, played in Columbia on the
24th, will interest Davidson men. North
Carolina college men starred for Camp
Jackson; the back field was composed of
Keesler (Davidson), Black (Davidson).
Coleman (N. C.), Lee (A. & F.).
These, with Ramsey (N. C.), Schultz
(W. & L.), Potter (Yale). White
(Yale), Thurman (Va.), Cody (Van-
derbilt) and Hill (S. C.). won the
game 14 to 0. Edgerton, of Davidson.
acted as umpire. Wadsworth's team rep-
resented the following colleges: Dean.
Yale, Delaware, Colgate, Elmira. Phil-
lips-Exeter, Trinity (Northern College).
Brown. Rochester and Syracuse. Lee
and Hill passed the goal line once each
and Thurman kicked gaal both times.

NOW

Is the time to
place your order
for .  ..

Engraved
Cards-

For Senior Speak-
ing Invitations

Presbyterian Standard
Publishing Co.

216 N. Tryon St. Charlotte, N. C.

©. J. THIES, Jr., Local Representative

Union Theological
Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.

For information, address:

W.W. Moore, D.D., LLD.
Principal

—When in Mooresville Visit—

The Miller-White
Drug Company

Special Attention to Davidson Men

Reaches QUICKLY and
CONVENIENTLY, With

Frequent and Splendidly
Equipped Trains

All Points NORTH, EAST, SOUTH,
WEST

Pullman Sleeping Cars and
Dining Car Service On
ALL THROUGB TRAINS

Low Summer and Winter Excur-
Sion Fares On Sale To Resort
Points

Special Attention Given
To Athletic Trips

For detailed information call
On or write

S. E. BURGESS, Division Pass-
enger Agent, Charlotte, N. C.

THE SOUTHERN SERVES THE SOUTR
