Literary Societies

SCHEDULE

Debate, Saturday night, March 24th:

Eumenean — Affirmative: Crouch,
Cunningham, Honeycutt and Hudson.
Negative: Harwood, Hobson, Hol-
landsworth and Humphrey.

Philanthropic—Affirmative: Murray,
R. W. Robinson, Morton and Stogner.
Negative: W. C. Neel, Thames. Sam-
ple, Wilson and H. T. Lilly.

Declamations and Orations. Monday
morning, March 26th:

Philanthropic — Orations: Paisley,
Henderson and Misenheimer. Decla-
mations: Leyburn, Pharr, Chalmers,
Tremain and J. W. McAlister.

Eumenean — Orations: Johnson,
Keesler, King and F. M. Mitchell.
Declamations: Harrell, Harris, Love
and N. S. Richards.

The query for the debate in the Phi
Society last Saturday night was: ‘“Re-
solved, That public service corporations
should be owned by the municipal gov-
ernments.” Those on the affirmative
were: Maddrey, Nisbet and William-
son. On the negative were: Fowle,
Howell and Carriker.

The affirmative side contended that it
would be best for the city governments
to own the public service corporations
because they could give cheaper and
better service to the public.

The negative contended 'that it would
be undemocratic, that without competi-
tion the service would go down and that
there would be much graft in the city
governments,

The deciston was in favor of the nega-
tive.

In the regular Monday morning
meeting the following orations were
given: Clark spoke on “Unknown
Southern Literature;” Grey talked
about the situation with Germany, and
Mann gave some of the “Laws Govern-
ing International Trade.”

The declamations given were: Dun-
lap, “Military Glory; Spence, “A
Tribute to Southern Women;” R. D.

Hall, “One Without a Home.” and
Hamilton, “With Malice Toward
None.”

The debate last Saturday night in the
Eu Society, as a whole was verv good.
Each side built its own air castle with
great enthusiasm. The best point
brought out, on each side, however, was:
The affirmative contended that the
municipality system was the best, while
the negative most emphatically insisted
that it was not. The speakers were:
Affirmative: A. R. Craig, R. R. Craig.

Hamilton and Potts. Negative: Car-
wile, Brown, Keesler and T. J.
Mitchell.

On Monday morning Burgess gave a
delcamation: “Patrick Henry’s Appeal
to Arms.” The three orations were:
Frazer, “Naval Stars;” Frierson, “Why
Sullivan Became a Minister,” and
Hamilton, ‘Missionary Work and
People in Africa.”

FRESH-SOPH DECLAMATION
CONTEST PRELIMINARIES

The preliminaries for the Fresh-Soph
Declamation Contest which were to be
held on Monday night were postponed
until last: night. A good number from
both societies entered and on a whole the
speeches showed more variety and “‘pep”
than usual. The judges selected from
the Phi: W. M. Currie, R. D. Hall, J.
T. Maddrey; while L. C. Brand, R. A.
McGirt and A. S. Potts won in the Eu.

These six men will compete in the
finals, which will be held in Shearer
Hall April 2nd, for the Declaimer’s
Medal offered in each society.

‘ihe DAVIDSONIAN, March 21, 1917

TWO COLLEGE PRESIDENTS
ENDORSE BLUE RIDGE

Dr. E. M. Poteat, President of Fur-
man University, says:

“Each year of my acquaintance with
Blue Ridge I am more deeply impressed
with the value of its work. This is the
one new thing to say, namely, that i:
grows upon me. And when I see the
growing complexity of college life in
the South, I feel more keenly the need
of comradeship with the finest spirits of
our college communities on the highest
levels. Blue Ridge supplies this, and
there is no other enterprise in the South
which does it anything like so well.”

Dr. W. A. Ganfield, Presiden
Centre College, says:

“It gives me great pleasure to try to
tell you of my keen interest in and per-
sonal enthusiasm for Blue Ridge. The
situation is ideal, the accommodations
are complete in every way, and all the
appointments and arrangements for per-
sonal comfort, recreation and pleasure
are superb. The program for the sum-
mer of 1916 was simply great.

‘In all the country I could not find a
place where I would rather spend ten
days than at Blue Ridge. It would give
me very great pleasure to be able to go
every year. Just as soon as my son is old
enough, [ hope to send him every year
until he gets through college. With all
this personal enthusiasm and“admiration
for the place and the program and the
college men who come, it is perfectly
natural that T am anxious that Centre
College might have a hig delegation in
1917.

“T have no hesitancy in saying that
ten days at Blue Ridge is the very best
experience that can come to a college
man during his entire course. “Vhe only
experience better than that of the first
summer at Blue Ridge would be a like
visit the next summer. 1 am already
looking forward with expectation to the
pleasures, joys and blessings of 1917.”

of

LAST Y. M. C. A. MER TING,

The speaker at the weekly meeting of
the Y. M.C. A. on Thursday night was
Rev. J. H. Henderlite, of the First Pres
byterian Church of Gastonia, N.C. In
a very striking and instructive way Mr
Henderlite presented the subject of
“The Variety and Unity of the Fout
Gospels,” saying in part that the pur-
pose of their variety was to bring out
their underlying unity, and to present
four pictures of the varied nature of
Christ as the Son of Gad, not ‘simply as
histories or biographies, but as. stories.
Matthew, writing to the Jews, gives his
account a ceremonial stamp suited to
their manner of thinking; Mark, writ-
ing for the Romans, showed the great
power of Christ; Luke, writing to the
Greeks. emphasized the humanity of
Christ, while John was writing espe-
cially to the helievers in Christ. Mat-
thew pictures Him as the promised Mes-
siah; Mark, as the mighty worker, and
the perfect servant; Luke, as the Son of
Man; and John, as the Son of God. The
speaker, in concluding, showed that
Christ was the All-Powerful and All-
Sufficient who could understand every
want and satisfy every need.

1. No speaking can be successful
which is not sincere.

2. One's effort, so far as there is
conscious effort in it, should be towards
simplicity of speech and without regard
to beauty but solely aiming to accom-
plish the only legitimate aim of speak-
ing, which is to carry conviction.

3. All reading, and particularly
reading of the best nature, in prose and
poetry, does both aid in facility of ex-
pression, and ease and aptness of ex-
pression.—Secretary Baker.

With the Alumni

Rev. F. H. Wardlaw, ‘95, has remov-
ed from Charlotte, N. C.. to Guthries-
ville, S.C.

*

Rev. H. S$. Henderson, of Ackerman,
Miss., spent the week-end with _ his
brother, K. B. McCutcheon, ’20.

Rd * *

The class of ‘97 is planning to hold
their twentieth annual reunion at Com-
mencement, Professor Currie and Mr.
Pierce Henderson, of Aiken, S. C.. have
charge of the plans for reunion, and it
is hoped that each matriculate ot the
elass will attend, accompanied oy his
wife. .

* *

The sixth annual series of lectures on
the James Sprunt Foundation at Union
Theological Seminary began last. week.
Phe lecturer was Dr. C. Alphonso
Smith, a graduate of Davidson College,
formerly Professor of English in the
University of North Carolina, now
professor of the same department in the
University of Virginia, and recently
chosen by the United States Govern-
ment as Professor of English in the
Naval Academy at Annapolis. He gives
nine lectures at the Seminary on the
subject of ‘Keynote Studies in Keynote
Books,”

. e

A, B. Gibbs, ex-'16, is studying medi-

cine at the University of Nebraska.

LYCEUM ENTERTAINMENT
GIVEN LAST SATURDAY

The Doering Orchestral Quintette,
composed of five ladies, gave a very de-
lightful entertainment Saturday night in
Shearer Hall, as the fourth of the local
lyceum attractions for this year. A large
and appreciative audience was present.

While the program was largely in-
strumental, consisting of élarinet,  cor-
net, cello, violin and piano, there were
interspersed thruout vocal solos, recita-
tions and other features which made the
entertainment one of variety. The open-
ing number was a march, “The Great
Divide,” and from then until taps were
sounded by the cornet as the conclusion
of the program, each selection was re-
ceived with favor, and enjoyed by all.
Violin solos by Mrs. Doering were espe-
cially good, and the recitations by Miss
Burnside, of poems of James Whitcomb
Riley and others, were cleverly rendered
and well received. Among the pleasing
selections by the entire company were
“Barcarolle,” from Tales of Hoffman:
“Norwegian Dance,” «a medly of South-
ern songs, and some of the popular Ha-
waiian pieces.

ENTERTAINMENT GIVEN
BY PROF, FULBRIGHT

On last Friday evening Professor
Fulbright gave a delightful program of
dramatic readings in Shearer Hall. The
word “dramatic” might have deceived
many; they were dramatic it is true, yet
many a little tragedy which kept the
audience holding their breath in sym-
pathy, was brought to a climax which
convulsed every one in laughter. Pro-
fessor Fulbright gave a number of com-
ical selections in a most realistic man-
ner. After an intermission he read two
poems, one by Rupert Brooke, entitled,
“If IT Should Die,” and another war
poem by Kipling. Next followed an
abridged form of the story “The Man
Without a Country,” in) which he
graphically portrayed the horrors of be-
ing without a home.

The entertainment was given in the
interests of the Civic League, and the
proceeds are to defray the expenses of
laying out flowers and shrubbery across
the railroad from the station.

LAST MONTH’S HONOR
ROLL FOR LOCAL SCHOOL

The following students made the
honor roll of the local school during the
past month:

First Grade: Adelle Arbuckle, Mar-
garet Brown, Virginia Brown, James
Reed, Sarah Withers,

Second Grade: Mary Andrews,
Mary G. Brown, Eva Forbis, Murray
Fidler, William H. Jetton, Julia Thomp-
son, Charlie Torrence, Pressly Morton,
Jack Mooney.

Third Grade: Riggs McConnell.
Lona Martin, Mary Hamilton.

Fourth Grade: Howard Arbuckle,
Sara Barnette, Thomas Lathery, Anna
Brown.

Fifth Grade: Sophie Richards
Thomas Hamilton, Hugh Cashion, Jean
Martin, Eustace Lingle, Robert Mc-
Millan, Frank Justice, Owen Manning.

Sixth Grade: Mildred Hobbs, Eva
Torrence, Johnsie Cashion.

Seventh Grade: Martha Hamilton,
Anonie Lee Sigmon.

Eighth Grade: Annie Lois Barnette.
Sarah Hamilton, Carl Ramsay, Wil-
burn Thompson.

Ninth Grade:
Dowell Richards.

Tenth Grade:
Barnette.

The school is proud of the hedge
which has recently been planted on the
left side of the building. There has been
much talk about a hedge, but it was not
until the Civic League placed one there
that this planning became a fact. The
students and teachers are very grateful
to the members of the League for this
beautiful hedge.

Madge Elliot, Mc-
Ella Fisher, John

IMPROVEMENTS BEING
MADE AT STATION

Miss Rade, of the Southern Railway,
has charge of all work that tends to-
wards beaitifying the ground around
the station along the lines of the com-
pany. The improvements that she has
made at Davidson are: Across from the
railroad station, there is a hedge set out
which surrounds a large plot that is
filled with flowering plants and ever-
greens. After spring comes, and warm
weather, the ground will look very
much better on that side of the track.

The Civic League, with the assistance
of the college authorities, has ordered
same Volga Poplars which are to be
planted on this side of the station as a
hedge. Eventually, there will be made
a sidewalk on this side also, which will
be a great improvement indeed. This
last improvement is in addition to that
which the Southern is making under the
direction of Miss Rode.

The time was when railroad stations:
were nothing but an cye-sore, but now
movements are being made all over the
country to change that bad habit. Day-
idson's railroad station has long been in
need of improvements, and they are now
being made, which will make the sta-
tion a very attractive place.

NEW Y. M.C. A. CABINET
IS ANNOUNCED

The Y. M. C. A. cabinet for the com-
ing year of the Association’s work is an-
nounced by J. L. Fowle, the new pres-
ident, as follows: Attendance, G. C.
Rellingrath; Bible Study, J. W. Clark;
Christian Activities, R. W. Cousar; De-
votional, J. R. Woods; Fresh Reception,
J. B. Daffin; Mission Study, W. C.
Cumming; Missionary Fund, L. M.
Thomas; Personal Work, H. T. Lilly;
Publications, A. P. Saunders.

The customary joint meeting of the
old and new cabinets was held on Sun-
day night at which time the work of
each department was outlined for the
benefit of the new men since they are
to take charge on April 1st.

