‘he DAVIDSONIAN, May 2, 1917

3

| Literary Societies

SCHEDULE.

Debate Saturday night, May sth:

Philanthropic—Affirmative: Currie,
Foreman, Spratt and Davenport. Nega-
tive: W. C. Worth, Campbell, Hamil-
ton and L. L. McAlister.

_At the regular meeting of the Phi So-
ciety on last Saturday night, April 28th,
the subject for debate was: ‘Resolved,
That the United States should perma-
nently retain the Philippines.” The
men upholding the affirmative were:
H. A, Campbell, W. T. Dunlap and R.
Kornegay. Those on the negative were:
D. I. McKeithan, J. A. Thames and J.
K. Fleming. Among the chief points
brought out by the affirmative were:
(1) The islands would be a strategic
naval base in time of war; (2) it would
be a loss economically to lose our hold on
them; (3) thé Philippines are not yet
ready and capable to govern themselves
The negative contended: (1) Loss oi
the islands would not necessarily meat
loss to American interests therein; (2)
at the present they are a loss to us eco-
nominaclly, and because of that, we had
better sell them, or (3) give them thei:
independence, as they are able and ready
for self-government. The judges de-
cided in favor of the negative. ‘The
debate was full of pep, but showed very
little preparation on the part of the
men, the reason being that several wert
appointed on.

The meeting of the Phi Society for
Monday morning, April 30, was given
up entirely to the election of officers fot
next fall’s term. The following is the
list of the officers elected with their re-
spective positions: President, J. A.
‘Thames; Vice-President, W. M. Cur-
rie; Secretary, D. M. Chalmers; Firsi
and Second Supervisor, W. E. Hall ana
Foscue; First and Second Critics, Fowlc
and C. W. Worth; ‘Treasurer, Mad
drey. W. M. Currie was also elected a:
a member of the Debating Council fo:
the next two years.

The last meeting of the society is to
be held next Saturday night, May 5.
The president also announced that there
would be a called meeting of the so-
ciety on May 14 for the inauguration
of the new officers.

In the Eumenean Society on Saturday
night, April 28, the affirmative side of
the debate was upheld by Brown, Pat-
terson and McGirt. ‘Those on the nega-
tive were Hudson, G. M. Robson and
Hamilton. The affirmative contended
that we must retain the islands to pre-
vent Japan’s becoming too strong in the
East. The negative advanced the argu-
ment that our national honor was pledg-
ed that we would not indefinitely rule
the Philippines. The judges decided in
favor of the negative. The debate as a
whole was an excellent one.

On Monday morning, April 30, two
speakers gave declamations; three gave
orations. The declamations were by
McGirt, “The Grandeur of Man;” and
by Potts, Roosevelt's “Admonition to the
American People.” Orations were de-
livered by Hobson, speaking on “The
Eumenean Society; Hudson, “Court-
ship of Andrew Brown;’” and Brown,
“New War Vessels.”

This was the last regular meeting of
the Eumenean Society for the session
1916-17.

JUNIOR-SENIOR
DEBATE IS HELD

The Junior and Senior representatives
from the two literary societies matched
their forensic skill in the annual inter-
society debate Monday night in the Phi.
Hall. The question discussed was, “Re-
solved, That an alliance of all Amer-
ican Nations should take the place of
the Monroe Doctrine.” The debate was

spirited and interesting. Each speaker| mitted by the committee and adopted|of the World War.
snowed himselt master of his material] without change.

and presented his arguments in a com-
pelting way. Lhe Lu. Society, represent-
ed by Messrs, Craig, Cousar and J. K.
Woods, detended te atmrmative. side ot
the question. ‘Lhe negative was upheld
oy Messrs. Webber, Cumming and
rowle, of the Phi, Society.

‘Lhe first speaker ot the affirmative
argued first that the Monroe Vocirine
4S vague and indehnite and untenabie;
second, that it has aroused the hatred o1
south America, Central America and
tLLurope. ‘Lhe points ot the second speaker
un the athrmauve were, first, thac the
lonree Voctrine is unjust, and second,
chat it is a hindrance to self-protection.
ihe last gentieman of the athrmative
dwelt on the desirability and the practi-
sility of an alliance.

‘Lhe first representative of the nega-
tive, after dehning the Monroe Doc-
srine, showed that tis doctrine is need-
ed today, and second, that an alliance is
ampracucal, ‘Lhe second speaker showed
chat the Monroe Doctrine mghtly inter-
preted is acceptable to the American Na-
ions. ‘this speaker showed that the
present ill feeling is not against the
principle of the doctrine but against non-
essentials that can be remedied,
second speaker also showed that an al-
tiance is the natural outgrowth of the
Monroe Doctrine. ‘The last speaker of
che evening showed, first, that an al-
liance is undesirable, and second, thal
che Monroe Doctrine is better than an
alliance. ‘Ihis speaker dwelt on the
difficulties invelved in an alliance.

The judges, Dr. Richards, Dr. Ar-
buckle and Mr. Jenkins, decided in
favor of the Phi side. Mr. Cumming,
of the Phi., and Mr. Cousar, of the Eu.,
were awarded the medals for the best
debates.

COLLEGE BAND CONCERT.
GIVEN LAST FRIDAY

Last Friday afternoon from 5:30 to
6:30 the College Band. which was re-
cently organized under the leadership
of E. P. Childs, director of the orches-
tra, gave an open air concert. ‘I'he play-
ers were seated on a small platform ar-
ranged for the occasion in front of the
P. K. A. fraternity hall.

The student body and many of the
townspeople were present to hear the
music of the band. Beneath the shade
of the large elms and oaks, the crowd
was seated on the beautiful lawn, and lis-
tened attentively to the music. At
length the band struck up the tune of
“Dixie,” and with yells and cheering the
listeners suddenly sprang to their feet.
The program was concluded with the
rendering of “The Stars Spangled Ban-
ner,” when the assembled company stood
with bared heads.

BOOK LOVERS’ CLUB
ADOPTS A PROGRAM

The Book Lovers’ Club was entet-
tainer by Mrs. J. L. Currie at its mect-
ing last Friday. Visitors present were
Miss Souther, of St. Louis; Mrs.
White, of Statesville, and Miss Adams,
of New York.

sub-

A program for next year was

BOOKS-STATIONARY-NOVELTIES

B rockmann’s

224 S. TRYON ST. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

SALESMEN WANTED to solicit
orders for lubricating oils, greases and

‘The|

Miss Ellenwood
prepared the program for the afternoon,

The subject to be studied is the Otto-| which consisted of readings from Du
man Empire and the Significant Effects] Maupassaut, Daudet and Coppee.

‘Ifa man can preach a better sermon, write
a better book, or make a better mouse trap

than his neighbor, though he build his house
in the woods, the world will make a beaten

path to his door,’’ provided he advertises in

The Davidsonian

TRY IT
$3.85 Per Inch for 31 Issnes

NOTICE

I will sell at public auction for cash
on Saturday, May 5th, at 10:00 A.M.
all stock of Groceries, Canned Goods,
Cigars, Tobacco, Confectioneries,
Stationery, Fixtures, etc., belonging
to S.C. Scofield, at Scofield’s Store,
Davidson, N. C.

L. B. VREELAND, Assignee

Psassssdscoassces posnene»- ere. rr re Te) errr

QUEENS COLLEGE

FOR YOUNG WOMEN

Has healthy location, in Myers Park, at
Charlotte, N. C.e Regular street car
service connecting with the city. Has
50 acre campus. All building equip-
ment new. Dormitories the best in the
country. Private bath and toilet to each
; two rooms.

H

H

H

For Particulars write to

CAPT. WILLIAM ANDERSON, Treasurer
Charlotte, N. C. Myers Park

TY Lo a a Ey rrr 7]

American Trust Company
Charlotte, N. C.
ALL FORMS OF BANKING

Fire, Health and Accidental Insurance
Acts as Executor, Guardian and Trustee

Capital and Undivided Profits $700,000

Patronise Our Advertiser FIRST. Tell him you saw it Advertised in

THE DAVIDSONIAN

paints. Salary or Commission. Address] If he hasn’t it, Try the Other Fellow. Tell him that he has something

LINCOLN OIL CO., Cleveland, O.

that ought to be advertised in THE DAVIDSONIAN.
