4

New Honor Society
_at Davidson

Gryphon Order Has Become Delta
Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa.

On Thursday, May 24, Mr. W. M.
Brown, of Washington and Lee, Gen-
eral Secretary of Omicron Delta Kappa
National Society, formally installed the
Gryphon Senior Order as Delta Circle
of Omicron Delta Kappa. Dr. W. J.
Martin, Dr. M. E. Sentelle, Dr. J. M.
McConnell, T. J. Mitchell, D. I. Me-
Keithen, A. Brown, A. B. Reese, P. B.
Price, L. A. Chambliss, J. L. Fowle, A.
P. Saunders, L. M. Thomas, Jr., and J.
R. Woods were initiated as charter mem-
bers. S. R. Keesler and J. A. Thames
will be initiated as soon as they return to
college.

For some time plans have been under
way to secure a charter from Omicron
Delta Kappa. On May 21 this was
granted by the National Council. Dav-
idson is the fourth college to secure a
charter, coming after Washington and
Lee, John’s Hopkins, and the Carnegie
School of Technology. The college feels
indeed honored. to be placed so high in
the list of circles. This society ranks as
one of the most valuable honor societies
in existence. The key which is mem-
bers wear is a symbol of distinctior
which is worthy the pride of any man.

It is the desire of the Omicron Delta
Kappa Society “to recognize men who
have attained a high standard of effici-
ency in collegiate activities, and to in-
spire others to strive for conspicuous at-
tainments along similar lines.”

Among the advantages of the Omicron
Delta Kappa Society mav be mentioned
the following: It includes in its scope
all departments and phases of college
life. Tr draws the varying interests and
activities of the college compus closer
together, thus broadening the attitude of
each. It is unique in its essential feat-
ures, being unlike any other honorary or-
ganization now in existence. It does not
aim at competing with any other societies
whatever, whether honorary or fraternal.
It emphasises moral character and an
even balance in the development of the
college student. It serves as a common
meeting ground for all the leaders on the
campus. Its broad scope makes it more
distinctly exclusive than is the case with
other organizations. It permits the recog-
nition of a man as early as his Sopho-
more year in college. It serves to mould
the sentiment of the college community
on important questions of local interest.

The following. quoted from the con-
stitution, is sufficient to indicate the
necessary requirements for membership
in the Omicron Delta Kappa Society:
“Character shall be the primal consider-
ation for membership in this society.”
“No man shall be eligible during his first
yeargof residence in the institution.”
“The membership shall be confined to
men.” “In the selection of the first and
second classes of active members the
complete collegiate record of each pros-
pect (both in and out of the local insti-
tution as far as possible) shall be ob-

Gen. D. H. Hill,

The DAVIDSONIAN May 30, 1917

Dee ___s___.____ EE Eee

tained and divided. into the following] HONOR STUDENTS OF

heads or groups. He must have attain-
ed special distinction in at least one of
these phases of collegiate activity in the
opinion of the active members. The di-
visions are arranged in the proper order
of importance and consideration.”

“(1) Scholarship or marked profici-
ency in one or more collegiate depart-
ments. (2) Athletics both local and in-
tercollegiate. (3) Social leadership in-
cluding conspicuous service to the insti-
tution. (4) Literary societies and inter-
collegiate contests. (5) Publications.”

It is the plan of the circle each year to
elect one or two prominent alumni of
Davidson to membership. At that time

one of these men shali deliver a public
oration, and the new members in the
student body shall be announced.

PRACTICAL AND STIRRING

(Continued from page 1)
diffusion of spiritual democracy, the lib-

erty and choice under God, and to par-

ticipate in all the privileges that a demo-
cratic and spiritual liberty guarantecs.
Third, in the fulfillment of this mis-

sion life must be dominated by spiritual

and not worldly interests.

Then he recounted some Davidson
men who have been prompted by this
true vision. Among the many he named
General Ramscur,
Stonewall Jackson, whose wife, the wo-
man who blessed his life, spent her girl-
hood days in Davidson ; then of the Gov-
ernor who has done great things for civic
order, ex-Governor R. B. Glenn; and
then lastly, President Wilson, who was
reared in a Presbyterian manse.

In concluding he gave a poem with
which he has pleased thousands, and was
a fitting remark for the powerful sermon
preceding .

Y. M. C. A. SERMON.

Dr. W. L. Lingle, of the Union The-
ological. Seminary, in Richmond, Va.,
preached the annual sermon before the
Y. M. C. A. of Davidson College on
Sunday night, May 27. His subject was
the story of the Rich Young Ruler, and
especially his question and the answer of
Jesus to that question, found in Mark
10:17-21.

The young man wanted eternal life,
but was not willing to give up his wealth
for Christ—each must meet such a crisis
in his life, and make the proper decision,
Dr. Lingle said.

PHI. WINS DEBATING CUP
AND ALSO BOTH MEDALS

The Debating Cup given cach year to
the literary society that wins in the Jun-
ior-Senior Debate, was won this year by
the Phi. Society. The question this year
was: “Resolved, That a Pan-American
Alliance should take the place of the
Monree Doctrine.” “The team winning
for the Phi. was composed of Messrs.
Geo. Webber, W. C. Cumming and J.
L. Fowle.

The Phi. also has the honor of win-
ning both oratorical medals contested for
by the two societies. J. L. Fowle won
the Tunior Orator’s Medal and W. H.
Neal the Senior Orator’s Medal.

DAVIDSON DURING ITS
EIGHTY-FIRST SESSION

The three highest honor men of the
graduating class (including entire col-
lege course: Valedictorian, Herman
Archibald Campbell, Aberdeen, N. C.;
Salutatorion, Francis Marion Mitchell,
Jr., Edisto Island, S. C.; Philosophical
Oration, Steven Thomas Henderson,
Charlotte, N. C.

Honor Roll for entire session (1916-
1917):

Senior Class—S. T. Henderson, Char-
lotte, N. C. (highest mark in college).
98.44: F. M. Mitchell, Jr.. Edisto
Island, S. C., 98.05; H. A. Campbell.
Aberdeen, N. C., 97.40; FE. H. Hamil-
ton, Atlanta, Ga., 96.00: D. I. Me-
Keithan, Aberdeen, N. C., 95.57: A. R.
Craig, Condloton, S. C.. 95.14.

Junior Class—J. R. Woods. Tsing
Kiang Pu, China, 97.89; J. W. Clark.
Charleston, S. C., 97.67; S. T. McCloy.
Monticello, Ark., 97.22; O. J. Thies,
Ir., Charlotte, N. C., 96.44: L. M.
Thomas, Ir.. Chattanooga, Tenn.,
95.69; O. C. Williamson, Charlotte, N.
C., 95.21.

Sophomore Class—E.. B. Wright,
Rome,’ Ga.. 96.05; S. H. Askew, At-
lanta, Ga., 97.30.

Freshman Class — Dwight Moody
Chalmers, Charlotte, N. C. (winner o
the Alumni Freshman Scholarship
Medal), 97.24; Wm. Love, Columbus,
Miss., 96.02.

Honorable mention for attaining to
within one unit of the Honor Roll:

Seniors—T. J. Mitchell, Thomasville,
Ga.; C. R. Jenkins, Charleston, S. C.

Tuniors—H. T. Lilly. Winston-
Salem, N. C.: W. C. Cumming, Wil-
mineton, N. C.

Sophomore—C. W. Foreman, Mon-
treat, N. C. .

Freshman—A. L. Foscue. Maysville.
S. C.

CLOSING RECEPTION
ENJOYED BY ALI.

The closing event of the Commence-
ment exercises on Tuesday night, which
was scheduled on the invitation to have
been a fraternity and society reception,
was changed, because of so small a num-
ber of students and visitors on the Hill.
into a society reception.

The Philanthropic Society hall, in
which the reception was held, had been
beautifully decorated with roses, ivy, and

assistance of Miss Shaw.

The reception, beginning at 9 oclock
and lasting until shortly after 10, was ex-
cetpionally well attended. Only a very
few of the students, it is true, remained,
but these, with their visitors and faculty.
almost unanimously attended, and lent
to the making of this event the most en-
joyable of the Commencement exercises.
The reception was informal, as were all
of this spring's Commencement exercises.
The punch served was splendid. and one
of the ladies present overhead “Pep”
Patterson saying that he had just taken
his fourth glass.

Ye

nn

i

Senior class colors, thanks to the kind! re-elected as members of the

A DAVIDSONIAN HAS
A SUCCESSFUL YEAR

Mr. Jackson is a force. As treasurer
and business manager he is serving the
college in a unique way. Probably no
one but he can do the work as he does it.
He devotes his entire time to this de-
partment and has collected several thou-
sand dollars which the college had con-
sidered not collectable. He is the famed
Red and Black Spirit incarnate. He is
behind everything that is pushing college
interests—and he is there with rare gifts
of executive and administrative ability.

= ==

MR. F. L. JACKSON.

Not only does he serve the college in
this way. The students admire him. He
is very companionable and can view
problems from the undergraduate point
of view. As a counsellor he is always
glad to help a fellow out of a diffculty.
He is one of the first that the new man
sees in beginning college duties.  In-
stantly they become friends. During one
day he may register one hundred new
men. Almost without an excetpion
when he sees one of those on the campus
it is “How do you do, Mr. So-and-So?”
in a way which is greatly pleasing. This
is a rare gift. He is the right man in
the right place.

ANNUAL ALUMNI LUNCHEON

The annual meeting and banquet of
the General Alumni Association was
held. ‘Tuesday afternoon at 6 o'clock in
the old Y. M. C. A. building. The
menu was splendid, having been prepared
by experts in the line.

For the ensuing year the old officers
were unanimously re-elected, as follows:
R. M. Miller, Jr.. of Charlotte, presi-
dent; W. T. Bailey, Greenwood, S. C.,
vice-president; Dr. J. W. McConnell.
Davidson, secretary and treasurer. Hon.
B. R. Lacy and W. J. Roddey were
Board of
Trustees from the Alumni Association.

The president, Mr. Miller. briefly
outlined some of the things which he
thought the association should undertake.
among which was the employment of a
permanent and salaried secretary to keep
in touch with the alumni: the endowing
of some chair bv the association; and the
supporting of THe Davipsontan by the
alumni.

The secretary was instructed to send
a night letter to those members of the
class of 1017 who are at Fort Ogle-
thorpe, welcoming them as members of
the Alumni Association.

Statement of Student Organizations Under Audit Board Control for the Year 1916-1917

: . Print. Oflle Post .
The Davidsonian De BANK cs ing Supplies Drayee Miscellaneous Adver Blanket piubrcrintions Miscellaneous D TOTAL |
: 1 Dr. Dr. | Dr. Cr. : . . ¥ . r. *-
May 15 91,093.56 $1,085.80] Blo o, gigs | gens: 81.50 $71.65 shit — s2cs%is | $1.00 $221.35 $9,256.86 $3,256.86
. Organization Statione Print- Osi
Quips an d Cranks 7 BANK cr. Adverilsemeats aecnamect ponies, Eupre as. Poot age ios Supplies Photo Priviteges De TOTAL
May 15 $2,060.01 $2,596.63} 167.11 siscio0 By sPhe03 sha $646.12 $7,732.35 $7,732.35

Y. M. C. A.
May 26

Stationery Main-

$1,004.62 $884.23

Blanket Miscet-

Pee laneous [| Postage tenance Extension Miscellaneous Hatel Bock
Dr. De. Dr. ; Dr.
$15.10 $11.60 $152.75 $96.49 $107.78

TOTAL
Dr. Cr
$1,091.22 91,091.22

College Magazine D c Fle t Express Olfice sunelies Miscellaneous | Advertisements Blanket Fee Subscriptions Miscellaneous TOTAL
ir. © | De. Dr. it. Cr. Dr. .
May 26 $380.75 $370.05 | $381.60 $1.50 0 s1.14055 81,10055

