THEDAV:».

—_=,,.

x

YSONIAN

Vol. V.

Jones and Miller
Win in Doubles

Mach Interest Being Manifested in
Final Outcome.

During the past week the tennis
tournament has been progressing rapidly.
The doubles were won by W. M. Jones
and J. H. Miller after overcoming some
keen competition. The singles are near-
ing the finals. The following report in-
cludes Saturday afternoon's play.

The semi-finals in the doubles were
played by Kornegay and Gaither vs. W.
M. Jones and J. H. Miller, and Cun-
nigham and Hawkins vs. Spence and W.
F. Hall. The finals were played by the
winners, Jones and Miller, and Cun-
ningham and Hawkins. Jones and Mill-
er won 6-4, 1-6, 3-6, 7-5, 6-3, in a match
in which hard, steady play was upper-
most. Few grandstand or sensational
plays were in evidence, in fact, this has
been a characteristic of almost every
match that has so far been played.

The singles are narrowing down
somewhat. E. A. Woods has already
reached the semi-finals. Spence vs. Ken-
nedy and Hawkins vs. W. F. Hall are to
play for the same honor. The other men
still in the running are E. G. Lilly vs.
Bennett, and Cunningham vs. Ormand.
who have yet to play their third round.

HOME DEFENSE GUARD
UNIFORM IS ADOPTED

The uniform for the student cadet
corps has been decided upon and will be
the regular uniform of the Home De-
fense Guard. It has been decided that
no particular shoe will be required, tho
general requirements as to color and
shane will possibly be enforced.

Dr. Martin was in Charlotte making
the final arrangements on Monday. Two
men will come down in a dav or so to
take measures, and the uniforms will
probably be ready about ten days after
the measurements are made.

J. E. JOHNSON HAS
LANDED IN ENGLAND

Mrs. Lola Johnson received a cable-
gram last week from her son, Mr. Ed-
ward Johnson, who has landed some-
where in England. Mr. Johnson at-
tended the Officers’ Reserve Training
Camp at Oglethorpe last summer and
received his commission and voluntecred
in the regular Army. He is now on his
way to France to go into training near
the firing line. J. E. Johnson was
principal of the Davidson Public School
last year and is an alumnus of Davidson.

N. §. RICHARDS HAS
LEFT THE INFIRMARY

v

We are glad to note that N. S. Rich-
ards, '20, who had his leg broken in a
football scrimmage about two weeks ago,
is doing nicely at present. He has been
removed from the infirmary to the home
of his uncle, Dr. C. M. Richards, and
seems to be in excellent spirits.

Richards will be taken to Charlotte
one dav this week for the purpose of
having his leg put in a cast. He hopes
to be able to get about on crutches in a
short time.

vAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON. N. C.. OCTOBER 10, 1917.

Probable Line-Up
of Georgia’s Tech.

The Davidson Team Leaves for At-
flanta Friday Night.

On Saturday, October 13, the Dav-
dson team goes to Atlanta to grapple
with the strong Georgia ‘lech eleven.
This game with ‘Tech will be, as usual,
the hardest of the season on Davidson's
schedule. ‘Phe Davidson team is going
down Friday night in high spirits, with
he intention of giving the “Yellow
fackets” the fight of their lives.

The Davidson team, under Coach
Fetver’s careful guidance, is developing
a strong unity that will offset what it
‘acks in weight: Davidson has a good
cam this year, regardless of the result
of the game last Saturday. ‘he score
does not represent the part played by the
Davidson team in that game.

The “Yellow Jackets” have a power-
ful eleven this fall, as is shown in her
41-0 victory Saturday over the Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania. A large number ot
last year’s team are back. Her backfield
is equal to any in the East. ‘The great
All-Southern star half-back Strupper is
with Tech again, and will be in Satur-
day’s game.

Tech's probable line-up in Saturday's
game will be as follows: Carpenter and
Hall, ends; Fincher and Tweat, tackles:
Wehelchel and Dowling, — guards:
Strupper and Guyvon, half-backs; Phil-
lips, center; Guyon, quarter; and HHar-
lan, full-back.

FRESH ARE DEFFATED
IN ‘FRESH-SOPH GAME

In a ragged, loosely played baseball
game Friday afternoon, a team composed
of Seniors, Juniors and Sophomores de-
feated a team of Freshmen by the score
of 8 to 1. Considering the rough dia-
mond, lack of practice and teamwork
and lack of equipment, both teams showed
up remarkably well. The outstanding

features of the games were the pitching
of Hodgin and fielding of Richards for

hase-running of

the Saphs, while the
Murrey of the Freshmen was very goud.
Although it was impossible to get a good
line on the new men's abilities, some of
them looked like Varsity prospects. ©

Score by innings: R. HL
Fresh .......... O10 000 O—1 § 2
Soph ........... 220 003 1—8 3 3

Batteries: Currie, Heath, Murrey

and Brown. Johnston; Hodgin and
Potts.
Summary: Base on balls: Hodgin 3.
Currie 3, Heath 2, Murrey t. Stolen
bases: Brown 2, Murrev 2, Potts;
Struck out: by Hodgin 8, by Currie 5.
bv Murrey 2. Hit by pitcher: Potts,

Belcher.
CLASS ELECTIONS.

During the past weck the following
offices have been filled: Baskethall man-
agers: Senior, F. Hengeveld; Junior, R.
D. Hall; Sophomore, W. M. Hall. H.
K. Aiken. Tr.. has been elected vice-pres-
ident. and Master John Monroe Doug-
las has been chosen mascot of the Class
of 18. Wm. Love. of the Sonhomore
class. has been elected to the audit board.

exercises on Thursday morning. speaking
of his work in Korea.

No. 5

War Y. M. C. A. Work = (N. C. State Wins
Described at Meeting By Close Score

Mr. Armbrust, of Camp Greene of | Davidson Had Ball on 1-Yard Line
Charlotte, Speaks. When Half Ended.

Vhe untimely ending of the first hali
deprived Davidson's eleven of a victory
over A. and EK. last Friday, the Techs
winning 7 to 3.0 ‘Vhe Red and Black
machine had the ball on “Pech’s hal f-yard
line when the fated whistle blew, ending
the first half. he pame was hard fought
and evenly played, altho Davidson made
eight first downs to her opponents’ five,
and also gained more ground than her
rivals, “The Davidson eleven looked
more finished and executed their plays
smoother than the ‘Tech aggregation, but
‘vas outclassed in) the overhead attack.
‘Tech's touchdown was made on at for-
ward pass from a fake formation, which
netted 15 yards. Davidson's three points
‘vere, made on a drop-kick, by Flowers,
from the field.

Flowers, Burns and Grev ‘starred for
Davidson; Homewood, Gurley, Me-
Murray and Whitaker for A. and FE.
Burns and Flowers went thru the A.
and EF. line almost whenever they wish
ed, and were only stopped by the sec-
ondary defense. Te was Gurley’s head-
work at quarter and the consistent: gains
of McMurray that put the Tech team in
position to score in the fourth quarter.

‘The weather was a little too warm
for football and play was rather stow at
times, considerable time being taken out
for resting the plavers. ‘The attendance
represented about 700 enthusiastic spec-
tators, inclading a number of khaki-clad
students from Chapel Hill.

FIRST QUARTER,

Davidson kicked to A. and E., who
returned the ball to the thirty-vard line:
Brown went thra guard for two yards,
MecMurrav thre tackle for five. Grr
ley failed at center and MeMurray was
stopped on an end run. Flowers, for
Davidson, took the pigskin thru tackle
for eight yards: Burns gained — three
yards; Spann was halted in his tracks;
two forward passes were intercepted.
Grey then kicked, the ball being blocked
by one of his teammates and recovered.
Burns in three successive attempts car-
ried the half three yards; Grev_ kicked
the ball our of bounds on Tech's twen
tv-five- yard line. Homewood went thru
right tackle for one yard; Brown gained

All those who attended the Y. ML. C.
A. last Thursday had the fortune ot
hearing one of the most interesting talk
that has been made at the weekly meet
ings for some time. Mr. Armbrust.
who is now Y. M. C, A. secretary a
Camp Greene, Charlotte, was the speak-
er. He is a man whose position has
thrown him in close contact with men,
and consequently a man who knows how
-o deal with men and with men’s prob-
lems.

In his talk at the Y. M. C. A. last
Thursday night on “The War and the
Y.M.C. A.,” he gave a summary of the
trials and hardships of a soldier, and
stated the need of some place or organi
zation that would occupy the soldier's
attention in his spare time in same pleas
ant and useful recreation, He showed
how the Y. M. C. A. was doing this
work with remarkable success, by piving
many instances that have come under his
nersonal observation. . He also showed
how cach  denartment—social, — educa-
tional, physical and religions, with its
individual amusements and henefits, was
loing a great work.

The Y. M. C. A. was fortunate in
securing Mr. Armbrust, and all) who
heard him are iow interested in’ the
‘vark with which he. is connected.

PRESIDENT MARTIN
HONORED BY GOVERNOR

Gsovernor Bickett has appototed Presi-
dent William J. Martin chairman of the
North Carolina Committee of Research.
‘This committee is an important unit in
the National Council of Defense. Mr.
R. A. Dunn, of Charlotte, and Dr. M.
A. Withers, of the North Carolina A.
& BE. College. have been named as mem
bers of this committee also,

‘The duties of this committee are to
report on the possibilities of the State in
the way of providing material frony its
natural resources for government use in
connection with the war, and to conduct
any technical research along this line
that may be,called for.

It. mav he safelv stid that North Caro-
lina will “do her bit" in furnishing the

government with raw material from her tight vards on a pass; Gurley got three
abundant natural resources vards thru center, and Brown was
thrown for a five-yard loss. Homewood

gained three yards thru center; McMur
rav failed at tackle and Gurley punted
to Davidson's forty-vard line, Burns re-
turning the ball to A. and E.'s forty-vard
line. He then gained five yards thru
center and the quarter ended.

SECOND QUARTER,

Grev_ kicked behind ‘Tech's goal line
and the ball was brought out = to the
twenty-vard line. Brown got three
vards thru right guard; Gurley failed to
gain; Brown got six vards thru right
tackle; Murray kicked and Davidson
returned to their fory-vard line. Mc
Alister gained eight yards around right
end; Burns got three yards at center and
McAlister gained five yards thru left
tackle; Flowers got twenty vards around
(Cantinucd on page 6)

REV. LE. McCU'PTCHEN
SPEAKS ON KOREA

Rev. Luther McCutcheon, ‘ys, mis
sionary to Korea, now at home on fur-
lough, gave a talk on Korea. Wednes-
day night at the church. He described
the topography of the country and the
nature of the Korean people. “These he
represented as being a liberal people, a
missionary people, and a devout people.
In speaking of his own work in Korea.
he said that in the fifteen years he had
been there he had baptized two thousand
adults and four hundred infants.

Mr. McCutcheon conducted chapel
