Vol. V.

Georgia Tech Wins
By Score of 32 to 10

Davidson Scores Field Goal and
Touchdown.

The pertect record that Georgia ‘Vech
has enjoyed so far this season was broken
last Saturday when “Buck” Flowers
dropped the ball thru the goal posts
from Tech’s 28-yard line and George
King crossed the goal that has not been
crossed this season, with the ball. Al-
tho Davidson suffered defeat, it was not
the team’s fault, for they put up a fight
that made the 1916 Southern champions
open their eyes and entertain a doubt of
their victory. .

FIRST QUARTER

Grey, for Davidson, kicked off 50
yards to Strupper, who returned 20
yards. Hill made three yards thru the
line and Guyon six yards around left

end. Hill again ran for five yards thru],

center and made first down.  Strup-
per was thrown for a five-yard loss in
an attempt at an end run. Hill made
four yards thru center. Guyon punted
40 yards to Flowers, who returned four
yards. Flowers made two yards over
left tackle, and Burns followed with a
one-yard gain around left end.’ Grey
punted 45 yards to Strupper, who re-
turned 50 yards and placed the ball on
Davidson's 31-yard line. Harlan gain-
ed one yard over left tackle, Strupper
made ‘four yards over right — tackle.
George Crouch intercepted an attempted
forward pass and was thrown on David-
son's 20-yard line. Flowers made five
vards over right tackle. Burns made two
vards over left tackle and then hit the
center for first down. George Crouch
gained five yards over right tackle.
Burns made two yards over left tackle,
and then. made four yards around right
end. McAllister gained two yards over
right guard. After two more runs which
were not successful Flowers punted 28
vards. ‘Tech’s ball on their 24-yard line.
Hill fumbled and recovered on ‘I'ech’s
20-yard line. Guyon punted 38 yards to
Flowers, who signalled for a fair catch.
Davidson's ball) on the 40-yard line.
Burns hit the line for a three-yard yain.
Grey punted 38 yards.to Strupper, who
returned three yards, placing the ball on
Tech’s 18-yard line. End quarter.
Score: Tech, 0; Davidson, o.
SECOND QUARTER.

Hill gained four yards thru center:
Harlan two yards over right guard, and
Strupper one yard thru center. Guyon
then punted 45 yards to Flowers, who
returned 14 yards. Davidson's ball on
their 45-yard line Burns ran for 27
vards around left end. Guyon first miss-
ed him but overtook him on Tech’s 22-
yard line. Flowers fumbled but recov-
ered, losing four yards. Flowers gained
seven yards around right end. He then
drop-kicked from the 28-yard line. scor-
ing three points on Tech.

Hill kicked off 50 yards to Burns, who
returned 20 yards to Davidson's 30-yard
line. Burns smashed the line and gained
11 yards. Grey punted 40 yards to
Strupper, who returned 15 yards to
Tech’s 40-yard line. Hill failed to gain
thru center. Elliott threw Harlan for
three-yard loss. Hill made seven yards

(Continued on page 6)

‘ot

Bulletin °

Davio son
Collece

HAS BeGun

Military
TRAINING

Kaiser: Mein Gott!) Uni Ruined.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON. N. C.. OCTOBER 17, 1917.

T. W. Hawkins Wins
Singles Championship

Winners of Doubles Will Probably
Be Challenged.

During the past week the following
singles matches have been played: Spence
und Kennedy played a tight match in
which service, aces and sharp volleving
featured. Spence- won 6-8, 6-4, 7-5.
Spence next played FE. A. Woods for the
position of finalist. From start to finish
the men played defensive tennis. “he
first set was only decided after 26 games
had been played. Many were surprised
that Woods finally captured the match
14-12, 6-3. 1-6, 6-3.

In the lower flight E.G. Lilly wan
from Barnett: by default, but lost te
Cunningham 6-4, 1-6, 6-2. Hawkins
won from W. KF. Hall 6-3, 3-6, 6-3.
An exciting match was expected between
Hawkins and Cunningham. Hawkins
showed from the start he meant to win
and plaved the most: spectacular. tennis
the tournament. He served well,
taking the net and making his smashes
count for aces with remarkable regu-
larity. Cunningham played a: little be-
low form. Hawkins won 6-3, 6-3, 6-3.

I. A. Woods and Hawkins played the
finals on Monday. Each man relied on
placing as the main offensive move. In
the service Woods was decidedly weak,
while Hawkins served well, making a
total of 14 service aces. Woods changed
from the defensive in the third set and
won it 3-6. Hawkins came back strong

in the fourth set. winning it 6-1. The
final score was 6-3. 6-2, 3-6, 6-1.
By his victory Hawkins wins the

championship in. singles and also the
right to pick his man and challenge J.
H. Millen and W. M. Jones to deter-
mine the doubles team. This will he
played within the next few days.

Probable Line-Up
of V. P. I. Team

Davidson Described as One of the
South's Strongest Teams.

Davidson's game with ‘V. P. 1. next
Saturday will be one of the most inte:
esting of the season. ‘The ‘Pechs had
one of the strongest deams in the South
last year, and this year’s team is show
ing up well. Four varsity men: Young:
er, Crregory, Roden and Parrish, and
roother men from last vear’s squad torm
the nucleus of the team. “Vhe new ma
terial also seems to be ot exceptional
quality. “Phe Vo PLL warriors literally
swamped their opponents, Emory and
Henry, last Saturday, by the score at 50
to 6. Such opponents will call for the
best fighting the Red and Black ma
chine is capable of.

As for Davidson's condition for this
game it is only necessary to direct. at-
tention to her playing against: Georgia
Tech. In fight and teamwork this team
is a worthy successor of the team last
vear, Ina resume of their schedule the
V. PLT. college paper speaks thus of the
Davidson team:

“One of our games is with Davidson.
This will be one of the biggest games
thar V. P. 1. has ever played, for David-
son has one of the strongest teams in the
South.”

The probable line-up of the ‘Hechs
will be: Powers and Roden, ends;
Parish (Capt.) and Rangeley. tackles;
McNeill and Leater, guards; Curry,
center; Bock, quarterback; Benner and
Wiegel, halfbacks, and Crisp, fullback ;

with Wiel, Charles, Godsey, Harwick,
Lybrook, Ward, Thornton, Younger.

No. 6

Dr. T. W. Lingle
Writes of His Trip

Was In the Bay of Biscay on the
13th of September.

THE DAVIDSON VANGUARD FOR FRANCE

‘Voday we are thinking of the open
ing of the session of 1917-8 at Davidson
College, the assembling in’ the chapel.
registration, — assipning: of lessons, and
meeting of old: friends. While personally
regretting our absence from the familiar
scenes and friends, we rejoice that we
are approaching France, where we shall
no doubt find a field of service in which
we gan do our bit in the winning of the
wart=the one task of the American peo
ple at the present hour, chat overshadows
all other tasks combined. On board is
another” Davidson man—W. C. Doub
Kerr, tor the past two years a graduate
student in| Romance Languages in’ the
University of Chicago. We are
strong, poing over not only to carry on
Yo M,C. AL work among American
soldiers, but at the invitation of — the
French Government, ta extend the work
among French troops in the camps and
well up te the battle line held by) the
French from St. Quentin to the, Swiss
border, Others have preceded us and
hundreds more will follow.  ‘Phose ot
us who speak French will be assigned to
work among French troops “somewhere
in France.” Aboard alse are 52 Quak-
ers, all college men, under — Professor
Bobbitt, of Haverford College. who will
engage in reconstruction work in’ dese
lated districts. Red Cross women fot
hospitals and) canteens, engineers, field
service men, siviation men, both Amet
leans and French, postal service men
who are going to establish mail service,
right up te trenches to be held by Ame:
icans, diplomats. purchasers, detectives
iningle freely, all with a purpose. “Two
sisters of Secretary Lansing. booked for
Red Cross work, grace the captain's
table. A glance at the husky field serv -
ice men from the far West convinces
me thar they will carry the ammunition
to the French troops holding front line
trenches, if it can be carried there. Om
Yo. M. C. A. vroup includes business
nen, secretaries, ministers of wide ex-
perience, and educators ranging: from the
dean of the graduate school of the Un
versity of Missouri to recent: graduates
of Harvard. One of them, Mr. Lat
ture, a most substantial voung = man,
hoasts of a new wife Calas! left in Vir
ginia) who is none other than the sister
of our own Professor Fulton.

We are in the danger zone now, and
every precaution is taken for safety. Men
are standing at the guns fore and aft
(the famous French 75's). watchmen
with glasses are scanning the surface das
and night, the sub-chaser is abroad and
often seen. -no gleam of light from out
ship is visible at night, while boats and
life belts are ready. Other Davidson
men are at sea on other vessels and will
soon he in France in’ large. numbers.

32

1Count on us to do our part.

Bay of Biscav, nearing France, Sep

Miller, McKann, Matthews, Yates and{tember 13.

Robinson ready to take their places. The
fact that “Monk” Younger, ex-'19, is

starring for V. P. I. now for the second | reach

vear will add interest to the game.

Tros, W. Lincce.
will
1

address where mail
Avenue Montaigne

Permanent
me:

Paris.

ALUMNUS: Have You Sent In That $1.25 for Your Davidsonian This Year?
