The DAVIDSONIAN, January 31, 1917

OUR CONTEMPORARIES.

Old Gold and Black—The prelimi-
naries for the three debates in which
Wake Forest is to take part this year
were held in the two society halls Jan-
uary 26 and 27. Three teams were
chosen to debate Baylor, Randolph-
Macon, and Colgate, respectively.

* ° *

College Topics—In an editorial, the
singing or lack of it at gatherings of the
students at the University of Virginia,
was deplored. The writer advanced a
method for improving the singing: to
ask the members of the Glee Club to
sit at the front and sing as if they were
singing to an auditorium of one of the
girls’ colleges, crowded with girls. In
that case the other fellows would join
and soon this criticism could no longer
be brought against university students.

* * *

The Tiger—The Glee Club of Clem-
son College made its initial “tour” last
week, giving concerts in Clinton, Green-
wood and Anderson. Only eleven boys
made the trip, but those eleven enjoyed
the trip enough to make up for those
who were so unfortunate as to be left

behind.
° °
The Ring-Tum Phi—Founders’ Day

in honor of the’ memories of George
Washington and Robert F. Lee, who
gave their money and their services for
the upbuilding of what is now Washing-
ton and Lee University, was fittingly
observed on the anniversary of General
Lee’s birthday. The address of the day
was delivered hy Secretary of War
Newton D. Baker, of the class of 1894.
His speech was marked by’ deep feeling
and clear presentation, which made it
both impressive and intensely interesting.
* * °

Winthrop Weekly News—The Gen-
eral Assembly of South Carolina was
entertained at Winthrop College recent-
ly. Nearly three hundred and _ fifty
were present, but as some of the legis-
lators brought their wives, which added
much to the pleasure of the day, the to-
tal number of visitors was three hun-
dred and eighty-three. They were
shown over the college and seemed to
be much pleased.

“UNCLE HIRAM.”

The earliest trace that can be found
of Hiram Potts, better known to us all
as “Uncle Hiram,” who died Monday
afternoon, is when he as a slave, belong-
ed to Mrs. Monroe Potts, before the
war. Mrs. Potts was the wife of
Sheriff Monroe Potts; and the mother
of the late Mr. Will Potts, of the class
of ’90, whose son, Cloyd Potts, class
"10, still lives here.

Uncle Hiram spent his boyhood and
grew to be a man on the Torrence Place,
the home of Mrs. Potts. The Torrence
Place is out toward the river, just be-
yond Gambell’s place. It now belongs
to Cloyd Potts.

It is not known when Uncle Hiram
was born, but he was probably about
eighty years old at his death. When he
first came to Davidson he was a grown
man. This was during the war, when
Rev. John Lycan Kirkpatrick, D.D..
was president of the college. At one
time he served. the Southern Railway at
the pump at the tank here. Later, in
the ’80s and ‘90s, he served Mr. Wm.
J. Martin, the father of the present Dr.
Martin. He also served the other mem-
bers of the Faculty generally.

After the death of Dr. Martin, he
stayed with the family and served the
present Dr. Martin, as faithfully as he
had his father, and was always courteous
and obliging. Later he became a servant
of the college and served it to the best
of his ability for the past fifteen vears or
more. He made many friends among

the college fellows and was known to a
very large number of the alumni of the
college. He always considered the
“white folks” as his friends, and what
they did as right.

Uncle Hiram was always a staunch
Democrat, and always voted that ticket.
Dr. Martin states that he remembers.
back in the days of the bloody shirts,
when they held large torch-light proces-
sions before the elections, Uncle Hiram
would ride up in the front of the pro-
cession and carry the Democratic ban-
ner.

Uncle Hiram was one of the few old
slave negroes left. He was truly a
shadow from the past, from the days of
the old South before the war. He was
married twice, but both wives are dead.
He left two daughters, one by each wife.
Uncle Hiram was buried Tuesday in the
colored graveyard, to the north of the
golf course; and by the grave of his last
wife,

ALL-TIME-ALL-SOUTHERN.

L. F.—Jeb Stuart.

L. T.—Stonewall Jackson.

L. G.—Ollie Tames.

C.—Champ Clark.

R. G—Dr. Ben Swanson.

R. T.—Patrick Henry.

R. F.—Nathan B. Forrest.

Q. B.—Wandrow Wilson.

TL. H.--George Washington.

R. H.—Thomas Tefferson.

F. B.—Andrew Tackson.

The ahove is our selection for an all-
Southern-all-time team. We don’t be-
lieve our nick can he heaten; and we
present it to our readers. absolutely con-
fident it will meet with their anproval—
Morgan Blake. in Atlanta Constitution.

The vital statistics for the town of
Davidson as recently announced are as
follows: Deaths from all causes, twelve.
Of these seven were under cighteen
months of age, and three over 72. The
other two were 21 and 58 years old.
Births, a4.
1915 was 14, and the year previous 23.

FINE RECORD CONTINUES

(Continued from page V)

Summary—First half: Davidson, 20;
Stetson, 8. Second half: Davidson, 24:
Stetson, 9. ‘Total: Davidson, 44; Stet-
son, 17. Substitutes: Finle for Caro,
Gilliland for White, Gardener for
Bailey. Time: Halves, 20 minutes.
Referee: Booe,

WINSTON GAME.

In a fast, clean, and exciting game.

Davidson lost her first game of the

season Monday night. when the Win-

ston-Salem Y. M. C. A. won 33 to 28.
The game was staged at Winston, the
first contest of the locals’ seven-day trip
thru the State, and the Davidson five

got away with a flying start and was|/ HOTEL HURFINE, - Greensboro, N.C.

leading at the end of the first half; in
the second, the Winston five, due to

Rector’s spectacular playing and strong! B@TEL LAFAYETTE, Fayetteville, N. C.

defensive work, forged ahead, and were
never headed off.

For Winston-Salem the playing of
Rector and Cash featured. “Eddie”
Childs was Davidson's most consistent
star, and Reese put up his usual stellar
game, his beautiful goal from one end
of the floor to the other being the star
event of the game.

The line-up was as follows:

The number of deaths in]

Prescriptions Compounded
by Registered Pharmacists

We carry a complete line of up-to-date
Stationery. . . Drink at our Sanitary
Fountain. . . We want to serve you.

WHITE DRUG CO.

The Rexall Store

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

Thorough

Courses

WELL EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

We Excell in SER VICE

You like to trade with a. Drug Store where

you get just what you want--—where you are
served in the right way. We are particular
about our service, and a courteous, respectful
and obliging manner is always proffered you.

Make your Drug Store sh«pping pleasant by coming here

JETTON DRUG COMPANY

The TATE-BROWN CO.

CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Soriety Brand Clothes

Kuapp-Helt Hats

HANAN SHOES, FLORSHEIM SHOES, MAN-
HATTAN SHIRTS; Neckwear. Underwear. Hosiery

HOTEL STONEWALL|Davidson Pressing Club

—Charlotte, N. C.— 6 Suits Cleaned & Pressed $1.00

DRY CLEANING A SPECIALTY

HOTEL YADKIN, - - Salisbury, N.C.|[[ALE WORK GUARANTEED

Defy Jack Frost

with his ‘Spalding wear a |
WDJP |

Sweater |

HOTEL MORGAN, - - - Danville, Va.
HOTEL LEELAND, - - Danville, Va.

J. P. SANDERS, President

United Motor Lines
Regular Lines

Big, .
fortable, with. a Tigh

DAVIDSON. POSITION. | W.-SALEM. sie with

Reese (4) .. .. .. .. Bazemore (2) covers collier that }

Walker (0) .. Gu oy - Patterson (2) Between weigh, best quaity l

Hengeveld (6) .. .. .. .. Cash (10)| Charlotte and Statesville oy ston each side, |
. Center. . . a Price - $8.50 |'

Childs ( 5 ..... 4... Rector (10)} We cater to special trips for Others, of couree—eend for our catalogue
wrray “Forwards. Morris (4) students A. G. SPALDING & BROS. te.

Foul goals: Reese, 6: Morris, 5.

74 N. Breed St. ATLANTA, GA. |

LO. Patterson, College Representative
