Vol. V.

Changes Made In
Military Training

Battalion Drills Before Breakfast---
New Appointments.

At a meeting of the student body last
Monday morning a motion was passed
to have drill before chapel in the morn-
ing instead of in the afternoon. This
motion will become effective March 1,
and will make it possible to have base-
ball practice in the afternoon. Reveille
will sound at 6:25 a. m. and drill will
begin at 6:45 and continue until 7:40.
Five minutes before supper the battalion
will again assemble and go thru the cere-
mony of retreat, as the flag is being low-
ered.

Owing to the decrease in the number
of men attending drill, due to with-
drawals from college and other circum-
stances, it has been deemed wise to re-
organize the division of companies.

An order has been issued by Captain
Lea to the effect that hereafter there
will be only two companies, “A” and
“B". Company “C” under the original
organization will become Company “B,”
and Company “B" of the original or-
ganization will be equally divided be-
tween Companies “A” and “B.” The
assignment of privates is to be announced
on the bulletin boards, while below is a
list of officers assigned to each company:

“A" Company— Captain. H. M.
Grey; 1st Lieutenant. C. W. Worth;
2nd Lieutenant, G. P. Scott; 1st Ser-
geant, C. B. Robson; Sergeants: C. H.
Wilson, M. R. Watt, FE. G. Lilly, J.
W. Bachman, Jr.; Corporals: A. R.
Flowers, H. H. Massey, R. ‘T. Allison
T. W. Clark, S. W. Murphy, A. D.
McArn, W. C. Neel, J. C. Cassell, G.
D. Green.

“B” Company—Captain, R. B. Pe-
ters; ist Lieutenant, J. W. McAlister;
2nd Lieutenant, J. H. Miller; 1st Ser-
geant, G. W. Brown; Sergeants: R. B.
Cunningham. Jr.. C. M. Hodgin, H.
M. Spann, J. B. Daffin; Corporals: G.
S. Crouch, L. B. Schenck, L. L. Me-
Alister, W. F. Hall, W. L. Roddey, W.
T. Allen, B. W. Romefelt, S. J. Fetzer,
N. Y. Pharr.

STUDENT BODY VOTES
FOR SERVICE FLAG

Following an action of the student
body, every man has been assessed 15
cents for the purchase of a service flag.
This flag, which has been ordered and
will arrive sometime within the next
week or so, is for the purpose of honor-
ing the Davidson men who have given
themselves to the service of their country
in the various branches of the Army and
Navy. The flag is nine by fifteen feet,
and is made up of a border of red, with
blue stars on a white field. There will
be about 340 stars on the flag, represent-
ing the 340 men who have gone into the
war.

All the colleges over the country are
thus honoring their men in the war serv-
ive in this manner, and it is especially
appropriate that Davidson should do so.

The flag will probably be displayed on
some conspicuous part of the campus.
and when not in use. be kept in the Li-
brary.

THEDAVI.. °F

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C.. FEBRUARY 20, 1918.

SONIAN

No. 19

Baseball Schedule
Is Being Made Out

Athletic Council Decides in Favor
of Short Season.

At a recent meeting of the Athletic
Council it was decided to continue base-
ball but to cut the season short on ac-
count of financial conditions, Manager
Daflin had about completed a seven days:
trip into Virginia, having already signed
several contracts, which he was forced to
give up. He is now working on short
trips in this State and South Carolina.
At present the only definite dates are:

April t2—University of Virginia, at
Charlotte,

April 13—V. P. Lat Davidson.

April 20—A, and E., at Gastonia (or
Charlotte),

April 24—A, and E., at Raleigh.

It is expected that contracts for games
with “Prinity, Clemson, North Carolina,
and Wake Forest, will be signed soon.

The present: indications are that we
will have a strong team as usual. As a
nucleus for the infield, Boswetl, McArn
and R. RR. Clarke have returned; King
seems the most likely candidate for a re-
ceiving position. Hengeveld, one of the
South's best pitchers for the. past two
seasons, should have splendid assistance
on the mound in A. L. Currie, Fowle,
and W. H. Miley, Jr. ‘Phe outfield in
all) probability will be selected — from
Flowers, Fetzer, and several new men
who seem to be good prospects, You
can count on “Coach Bill” to produce a
winner from this material.

Informal practice began last week, and
regular practice will start as soon as the
weather permits.

Special Services - |Bible Shown to be
Being Held in Church) Source of Modern Law

Dr. W. H. Miley is Preaching| Professor Currie Summarizes His
Twice a Day. Bible Course.

The evangelistic services at the Pres-] ‘The Y. M. C. A. at its regular meet-
byterian Church which began on Sunday |ing on last Thursday night heard, Prof.
will continue both afternoon and night }A. Currie on the subject, “The Bible as
thru ‘Friday. Rev. C. E.. Bailey, of|a Source of Modern Law.” His lecture
Edgefield, S. C., who was to have con-|was a summary of the course that many
ducted these services, was prevented |students enjoyed last fall as a part of
from coming by death in his family. the regular Bible Study Classes.

The church has been peculiarly for-| Professor Currie stated on introduc:
tunate in securing Dr. W. H. Miley.|ing his subject that modern law was or-
Superintendent of Evangelism in the dinarily divided into two divisions, crim
Southern Presbyterian Church, who in-linal and civil. Criminal law he distin
tended spending this week with his fam |yuished as that which called for action
ily in Davidson, to fill this post. Dr.fof the state or national authorities. in
Miley is an entertaining and consecrated | prosecution and civil law. -He divided
evangelist, and great results are antici fit into torts and contracts. He showed
pated from his meeting. how all of these various Lows were piven

As the text for his sermon on Sunday lin the Bible and. in doing this he de-
morning, Dr. Miley chose If Kings| fended the alleged cruelty of the laws of
22:8: “I have found the book of the law|the Israelites, calling attention to. the
in the house of the Lord.” Dr. Miley} fact that in their laws only seventeen
drew an analogy between the decadent {crimes were punishable by death, while
conditions that prevailed in) Judah and|not so many years ago in’ Kagland there
those that exist at present in our own| were one hundred and seventy-cight.
land. The causes for both are these: During his discussion of torts the
(t) the lost altar: (2) the lost: Buok; lights went out and interfered somewhat
(3) the lost closet. with the attention of the audience. They

His evening sermon was on Matt. 22.|listented attentively, however, to Pro-
the parable of the laborers and the vine- | fessor Currie in his explanation of unilat
yard. ‘The hours in the parable, the|eral and bilateral contracts. He showed
speaker said, represent the stages in life.|how the plan of Salvation is simply a
The children are called at the first hour. contract, the making of which depending
Dr. Miley drew a large number of aptjonly on the attitude of the individual in
illustrations, showing vividly the impor- believing on Jesus Christ.
tance of the call and the work to be done.|— Professor Currie emphasized in open-
ing his speech that “students of modern
law do not study the Bible enough, for
it is the source of modern law.” All of
his speech proved this main contention.

PRIZE WINNING BOOK
RECEIVED AT LIBRARY

TEAM LEAVES MONDAY
ON LAST TRIP OF SEASON

“Brave Belgians,” by Baron C. Buf-
fin, is one of the latest war books to be
added to the library. ‘he author was
awarded the Audiffred Prize of the
French Academy of Moral and Political
Science. The book is an account of the
achievements and sufferings of the Bel-
gian army from the heroic resistance at
Liege down thru the victorious defense
of the Ysek.

The Library is responding to requests
from a goodly number of colleges and
high schools for aid in debating material
during what might be called the debating
season of the year. Its clipping depart-
ment serves a good purpose in supplying
material which is up-to-date and easy to
be mailed.

SENIOR CLASS GIFT

HAS BEEN CHOSEN ———_
. Manager Angle has, as yet, no new
games to announce. Owing to unsettled
railroad) conditions and to affairs in
various college athletic associations,
games are very hard to get. Eastern
College cancelled and Clemson was
forced to cancel. The Clemson game
may be played later in the season. The
team leaves on its Carolina trip next
Monday. There is a game between the .
Scrubs and the Winston-Salem High
here Thursday night, the 21st.

The class gift of the. Seniors to the
college will consist of two large light
standards placed in front of the new
gymnasium.

The college will soon begin the work
of grading and terracing the slope about
the gym. When this is completed, the
Seniors will have placed in front of the
gym a flight of concrete steps, with side
bases for the lighting posts. ‘These two
posts with their clusters of lights will
resemble somewhat those on the “white
wav" in cities. “The Seniors hope to see
their gift erected before the first of May.

BLUE PENCIL CLUB
MET WEDNESDAY NIGHT

The Blue Pencil Club met last Wed
nesday night and discussed the life and
works of Victor Hugo. Several of his
hooks were taken up and considered in
detail. Announcement was made of the
Sigma Upsilon Prose Fiction Contest.
The meeting was well attended and en-
joyed by all present. It was decided to
study the works of Ibsen for the next
meeting.

DR. USSHER TO SPEAK HERE.

Dr. Ussher, a medical messionary to
Persia, will address the student body
Thursday morning at tt o'clock. Dr.
Ussher has been thru a good part of the
Armenian persecutions in Turkey and
will doubtless throw a most interesting
light on the life of those much persecuted
neaple.
