Vol. VI.

Hut To Be Located
In the Gymnasium

Mr. James Moore Is to Have Charge.
Many Plans Made.

Mr. James A. G. Moore, who is to
have charge of Y. M. C. A. activities
on the campus, has arrived and is mak-
ing plans for his work. The paper and
envelopes for the writing room have
come and a moving picture machine is
expected in a few weeks. A series of
entertainments has been planned for this
winter, but exactly what it is to consist
of. has not been announced yet.

The large room to the left as you en-
ter the gymnasium is to be used as a rec-
reation room. Whenever the men are
on duty they can find something there to
interest them. The secretary plans to
stay in the building so that he will be
easily accessible at all hours to discuss

“A” Com Leading
In Basketball League

Much Interest Shown In Inter-
Company Contests.

During the past two weeks

the Davidson S. A. T. C. has issued a

to uphold the honor of its company.

games won and only one lost. Com-

actual scores are as follows:
Company A 14 Company C 12

any problems that may come before the Company A 16 Company D 26
men. Portable benches will be used for] Company A 25 Company B 12
the Y. M. C. A. meetings every Sunday| Company A 22 Company D 16
night as well as for the concerts and Company C 7 Company B 18

The lineup for Company A is as fol-
lows:
Right forward ..........- Craig (C)
Left forward .......
Center ......c eee cece Finley, A. G.
Right guard
Left guard

Substitues: Blue, Heizer, Monteith,
Ormond, A. P., Black, Miller, Knight,
w. C.

For Company B there were:

shows. Bible classes will be held Sunday
mornings as heretofore and every man
on the campus is urged to join one of
them. No definite plans have been made
in regard to the country Sunday School
work, but if possible they will be con-
tinued.

Davidson is very fortunate in getting
Mr. Moore, as he has had a wide ex-
perience in this work and has put his
whole soul into it. He went into the Y.

M. C. A. work soon after the declara-] Right forward .......... Roberts (C)
tion of war and has been in it ever since,| Left. forward ...... McKeithan, L. B.
coming to us from Camp Wadsworth.| Center ......--++++++1se+ Corneilson
He is acquainted with all the problems Right guard .........- Crouch, W. B.
of camp life and ready to help any off Left guard ..........-+- White, J. F.
the men in any way he may be able. Substitutes: Stone, T. C., Freeman,
Having received his preparatory training| Hyland, Choate.
at Trinity College, Connecticut, Mr.| Company C:
Moore entered Brown's University for Right forward .......... Montgomery
his theological training, which he com-| Left forward .........00005- Caddell
pleted only a short time before he receiv-| Center ......--.+++++0: +++ Johnson
ed his appointment as Y. M. C. A. sec-| Right guard .......--- Gilchrist (M)
retary. He states that he does not wish Left guard ...........+008- Chalmers
to be regarded as an officer but as a Substitutes: .Ramseur, McPheeters,
friend to the soldiers. Garth, Cochran, Ormand.

Company D:

Right forward
Left forward
Center
Right guard
Left guard ........06- eee Dugger

Substitutes: Robson, Scott, Moore.

LT. J. M. DOUGLASS
DIES OF PNEUMONIA

News has been received of the recent
death of Lieut. James McCants Doug-
Jass, "10, at El] Paso, Tex. Lieutenant
Douglass spent four years at Davidson,
1906-10. His death was caused by
pneumonia following influenza, and oc-
curred October 13. Lieutenant Doug-
lass was born in Winnsboro, July 14,
1889. He Was a member of the law
firm of Douglass & Douglass, at Winns-
boro, until he entered the first Officers’
Training Camp at Fort Oglethorpe. He
was commissioned as lieutenant and sta-
tioned at Camp Jackson until July 1,
when he was ordered to Fort Sill, Okla-
homa. Since September he had been at-
tached to the Sixty-third Regiment,
Field Artillery, at El Paso, Texas.

With reference to the article appear-
ing in the editorial columns of The Da-
vidsonian in the last issue regarding the
asking of blessing at mess, the command-
ant wishes it to be announced that the
saying grace or asking a blessing is not
only allowed in the army but is encour-
aged. He hopes that every one of the
mess halls will continue to observe this
devotion.

oe @ee@8e 8 © @ @ @ ©

FOOTBALL SCHEDULE.

Nov. 2—Washington and Lee
(Pending).

Nov. 9—University of S. C.

Nov 16—University of N. C.,
Winston-Salem, N. C. N

Thanksgiving Day — Clemson,
Charlotte, N. C

ee @ @ @© @¢ @

W. C. Neel, ’19, is now across. His
address is: Headquarters Detachment,
306 Engineers, American Expeditionary
Forces, France.

e#eeseeoee ee eos
een e020 800 @ @

eee @

the
campus has been thrilled by a series of
basketball contests which almost exceed-
ed in magnitude the gladiatorial games
of ancient Rome. From each company of

quintet of stars who have bravely fought

After the dust of battle had. subsided it
was found that Company A was leading
the procession with a record of threc

panies B and D each have lost one game

and won another, while Company C
has lost the only two it played. The

veeesees es Johnston, W. 1.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON. N. C.. OCTOBER 23, 1918.

“Flue” Has Vanished

Hon. W. J. Bryan

From Davidson Campus| Visits Davidson Campus

More Than Hundred Cases In Town.
Mills Shut Down.

The Spanish “flu” epidemic, which
for almost three weeks has been raging
on the campus, is now practically over,
and the few remaining cases are rapidly
recovering in the infirmary. In all,
there were something over 200 cases of
the “flu.” of whom not more than a
score developed into pneumonia, “Phe
one sad and regrettable outcome of the
epidemic was the death of Dan Currie,
the only favality resulting from pneu-
monia, and the whole student body joins
with his people in mourning his loss.

To meet the emergency South Wing
Chambers was rapidly converted into
an impromptu infirmary. Fortunately
several nurses could be s cured, who
with the aid of the local Red Cross,
the faculty members, and the ladies of
the town, ably and successfully handled
the situation. The town of Davidson
certainly showed its worth during this
crisis in the college, and now that the
community is so hard hit with the dis-
ease it is time the college should show its
appreciation by helping out in any way
possible. The nurses had their hands
full while combating the disease among
the students, and it was due to the splen-
did support rendered by the faculty
members and town ladies that so few
of the cases proved to be serious. Every
man in the student body realizes the
sacrifices and dangers undergone by
these good people and sincerely appreci-
ates them every one. And it is right
that the folks back home should know
that they, at the risk of contracting the
disease themselves, averted many a case
of pneumonia and without doubt saved
many a life. ‘They are too many to be
mentioned individually, but everyone
knows who they are, and the appreci-
ation and respect of the entire student
body is accorded everyone. .Every Da-
vidson man realizes that he has the op-
portunity of living in as fine a college
community and with as fine a faculty as
any in the country, and he is proud of it.

Thru Sunday over 100 cases had been
reported in the town, with a number of
pneumonia cases. It was a serious ques-
tion combating the disease intown, as pa-
tients could not be brought to a central
hospital, but had to be treated in their
separate homes. Last Wednesday even-
ing in the Civic League hall, a citizens’
meeting was held, presided over by
Mayor Sloan, in which the epidemic
situation was reviewed and several com-
mittees were appointed with which the
Red Cross should co-operate in an ef-
fort to see that there should be no neg-
lect of the sick who are unable to have
proper nursing ,either for financial or
other reasons, more especially because
unable to find a nurse where the most
of the family is down with the disease.

Both of the cotton mills were silent
for several days as the electric power
was not being furnished, but the Linden
had to shut down the day before on ac-
count of the absence of sick operatives.

Rev. W. H. Dubose, 'o4, of San An-
tonio, Tex., has taken up work in Tuc-
son, Arizona.

Forceful Address Made Before S. A.
T. C. and Townspeople.

Great excitement was caused in the
companies on Saturday morning, Oc-
tober 12, as the news spread about that
Hon. William Jennings Bryan was ex-.
pected on the canipus any moment. The
companies were in the act of forming
for the regular Saturday morning in-
spection when a Packard rolled slowly _,
around the semicircle past Chambers and
drew up in front of the-Library. Mr.
Bryan, accompanied by Colonel Ma-
comb, commanding | officer of Camp
Greene, and Mayor McNinch, of Char-
lotte, alighted and looked around the
campus for a short time.

About 9:30 the companies were as-
sembled and marched to the Aagpole,
where they formed in a semicircle. Dr.
Martin spoke briefly, congratulating the
student soldiers in having such distin-
guished guests on the campus, and with

introduced Mr.

words

appropriate
Bryan,

The well-known statesman then spoke
for ten or fifteen minutes to the men.
He said that he had always wanted to
make a visit to Davidson, having heard
a good deal about her reputation. He
had always been interested in young peo-
ple and especially in young men, as he
had worked a good deal among them and
understood them better. He also stated
that he watched the progress of educa-
tional institutions, especially Christian
colleges, with the decpest of interest,
He then proceeded to give the student
soldiers much valuable advice, showing
them what in the end were the things in
life which most counted. ‘Toward the
end of his talk he made the striking
statement that most men sink into un-
known graves while some few forget
themselves into immortality. Mr. Bryan
concluded his address by making the
promise that sometime he would return
to Davidson when he had longer to stay.
He was loudly applauded, having made
a deep impression on the men of the
college.

Colonel Macomb then spoke a few
fords, expressing his interest in the prog-
ress the local §. A. T. C. was making
here at Davidson. Mayor MeNinch
cordially offered the support of Char-

(Continued on page 6)
