6

Ihe DAVIDSONIAN January 30, 1918

THE WAR AND
SOUTHERN PROBLEMS

Perhaps few college men realize the
tremendous changes which the war is
bringing about in the South. Almost
every phase of life is feeling this in-
fluence. In no place is this change more
marked than in the supply of labor.

The war has opened a great new in-
dustry for making munitions. Thou-
sands of men and women have been
crowded into these plants. The places
of manual labor vacated by these white
workers have been filled by colored peo-
ple. Hence nearly half a million ne-
groes have gone north during the last
eighteen months or two years.

This means that thousands of acres of
land in the South are now lying idle be-
cause there are no laborers to plant and
cultivate the crops. This is costing the
South millions each month. Dr. Bran-
son, of the University of ‘North Caro-
lina, said last summer in an address de-
livered at the Blue Ridge Association,
that we were a quarter of a billion dol-
lars poorer in crop values in 1917 be-
cause of the negro migration.

This large migration of farm labor-
ers means higher wages on account of
scarcity of ‘supply. Rise in farm wages
means rise in labor powers in mills, fac-
tories and all other industries, which in
turn means increase in cost of produc-
tion and hence increase in living expense
for every last man. But higher wages
is not the only reason why negroes are
going North. If you read negro papers
or hear negroes speak you will find the
trouble goes deeper :

Listen to this indictment published in
a negro paper as an open letter from a
Georgian negro to Governor Brown,
speaking of the labor agencies who have
lured the negro North. He | says:
“First, mob violence and the lynchers;
second, injustice in the courts; third,
paving first-class railroad fare for fourth-
class service; fourth, insults to their
women and themselves on railroads and
strect cars; fifth, insults in public places,
elevators and on the “streets; sixth, the
right to vote and bear arms in defense of
their State denied ; seventh, poor pay for
their labor on the farms and , public
works, while convicts are often used to
do the work free labor should be doing ;
eighth, poor schools for their children;
ninth, no agricultural schools for their
children, while they are taxed to pay for
such schools for the children of their
white friends; tenth, taxation without
representation in the management of the
povernment; eleventh, no representation
on the juries; twelfth, in some cities and
towns, no parks, playgrounds or swim-
ming pools for their children, yet they
are taxed to provide such for the chil-
dren of their white friends; thirteenth,
segregation into the sickly parts of the
cities where the streets are poorly kept
and often neglected; fourteenth, poor
encouragement for their efforts to do
right; fifteenth, the white church and its
Christianity in the State, so far as I have
been able to learn, except in few cases of
sporadic nature in thé Southern Method-
ist, Southern Presbyterian and the Epis-
copal Churches, is silent and passive on
these wrongs. These, Mr. Brown, are a
few of the labor agents who are taking
our colored people away from Georgia
and the South. Down deep in your
heart, do you blame them? Can you
blame them?”

We college men ought to be the first
to understand these conditions. We
cannot afford to miss our chance to help
our Southland in this hour of great need.
Every man of us should study first hand
what this migration of negro labor
means and should do our ‘best to meet
the situation. The call of the hour is for
clearcut knowledge. Get some books
and read on the problem. Ask some man
to speak in your college. Start a study
group led by some professor. Get busy

if you want to help your nation in an
hour of need.

FRESH-SOPH NUMBER IS
NEXT ISSUE OF MAGAZINE

Altho the second issue of the Maga-
gine has not returned from the press,
plans are already on foot for the editing
of the third number. This next issue
will be an attempt at a Fresh-Soph num-
ber, and the success of such a trial is now
up to the members of these two classes.
If anyone should question as to the ob-
ject of this plan, here are a few reasons
for it: It is hoped that it will be a
means of stimulating more interest along
literary lines among the Freshman and
Sophomore classes; by so doing there is
the possibility of discovering special liter-
ary ability among these men, of making
some “finds,” so to speak; and finally it
is a war entrenchment policy on the part
of the Magazine. So many of the older
men who are interested in writing are
being or soon will be called away, and
new material must be secured in their
stead. As yet enough of the younger
undergraduates have not responded to
offset this loss, but it is hoped that’ the
Fresh-Soph number will be a means of
recruiting several new men to this linc
of college work.

All of you to whom this article ap-
plies, take notice! No doubt many of
you have never even attempted to write
a story, or poem, etc., because you pos-
sibly underestimated your ability. The
success of the next issue of the Magazine
is going to depend on you, tho, so
shoulder your part of the responsibility.
This Fresh-Soph number will go to press
about February 15. Get busy now and
hand in your article to some member of
the staff. They will only be too glad to
criticise it and possibly use it.

GOOD ATTENDANCE
AT JOINT MEETING

The Christian Endeavor, Ministerial
Band and Volunteer Band held a joint
meeting Sunday night, January 27. The
subject of the meeting was “C. E. Goals
and How to Teach Them.” J. A.

Thames, as chairman of the attendance

committee, made a plea for better attend-

ance at the meetings. In the open dis-
cussion Roberts, Matthews and. J. 'R.
Woods were among those making short
talks. W. C. Cumming, as leader, sum-
med up the subject in his talk, which
was very interesting. He mentioned as
two goals which should be before every
Christian, growth in the individual
spiritual life, and the desire to reach as
many as possible with the Gospel mes-
sage.

BOOK LOVERS’ CLUB NEWS.

The following is the list of books
which are being read by the Book Lov-
ers’ Club this winter: ‘“Triflers;” “I
Mary McLane;” “The Mischiefmak-
er;” “A Student in Arms: “Rem. of
Lady Randolph Churchill ;” ““My Home
in the Field of Honor;” “Hill-top on
the Marne;” “Light in the Clearing:”
“One Year of Pierrot :” “The Family ;”
“Mistress Anne;” “My Home in the
Field of Mercy:” “The Red Planet :”
“Letters of R. W. Gilder;” “A Little
World Apart ;” “The Worn Doorstep ;”
“The Man of Athens;” “Leatherface :”
“Bullets and Billets;” “Red Rugs of
Tarsus;” “Secrets of the Hohenzol-
lerns,” and “Dwelling Place of Light.”

The following students have register-
ed for the spring term who were not
here before Christmas:

Former students: D. S. Epps, J. B.
Morton. C. J. Matthews. New: R. L.
Black, Davidson, N. C.; J. B. Smith,
Elkton, N. C.; W. J. Martin, Jr., Da-
vidson; J. S. Brown, Hendersonville, N.

C.; C. G. Long, Matthews, N. C.

: 11 South Tryon Street : Charlotte, N. C.

Young Men’s Clothing, Hats, Furnishings and
Shoes. Knapp-Felt Hats, Bassalina Italian Hats,
Manhattan and Star Shirts. Hanan, Florsheim
and the French, Shriner and Urner Shoes.

§ TAILORING DEPARTMENT ON 2nd FLOO

R

at

WHITE DRUG CO.
DAVIDSON COLLEGE

DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

Thorough

Courses

Ihe Rexall Store

WELL EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

American Trust Company

Charlotte, N. C.
ALL FORMS OF BANKING

Fire, Health and Accidental Insurance
Acts as Executor, Guardian and Trustee

Capital and Undivided Profits $7000.COO

See us for your events. We carry a full ine of
Stationary, Huyler’s Candies, Waterman’s Ideal
Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholtz, The Florist.

Have you tried our drinks? Special service
given to your prescriptions.

Yours truly,

: JETTON DRUG COMPANY §:

. SCHOLTZ THE FLORIST, Inc.

PHONES 441-2 202 20: 8 N. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
JETTON DRUG COMPANY, Agents

Good, Fresh Candies, Cakes, Crackers, Fruits
Special attention given to ‘“FEEDS.”’ L. A Elliott

Something good to eat ALL the time.

