The DAVIDSONIAN February 20, 1918 5

FORUM lll ugpz

Red Cross News

The Red Cross workers are proud of
a shipment to the Charlotte headquarters
this week, consisting of 780 pieces. Some
finished work, many knitted articles and

l

= b]
Don’t Forget
AN ALL-STAR TEAM. aie: .
h Davidson College has always enjoyed \. , ih to have that Suit
the. reputation of producing good ath- : oe |
letes, and of maintaining clean athletics. 4p:| f q DRY CLEANED for

I had heard of Davidson's reputation be- The New Fall

fore entering college, but nothing that |
heard is to be compared with the repu-
tation she has gained during the past

OW
four years. 1 think we owe it to those LL AR

Junior Speaking

The Ben-Vonde Co.

and nail them on. After much combined
effort it was done, but it seems to us an
auxiliary among the men of the town
who are also members of the Red Cross
could greatly relieve the difficulty by
volunteering to help in this part of the
work. Most assuredly, the Red Cross
is every one’s work, as it is every one’s
investment. The work of the Red Cross
here is just one way in which the money
you have given is being used. Every one
may have a “say” in it, and interest in
the work will prove a stimulus to the
workers, Private Peat, a Canadian.

almost 100 rest pillows are on hand still.t men, who have won such fame in ath- The South’s Largest

The packing and. shipping Pies O a}letics for their Alma Mater, to make Exclusive |

very ditncuit problem to the ladies. One/mention of them in an all- selection

box waited almost a week for shipment|of teams from our three major sports: Dy ers and Cleaners

because no woman present was man| football, baseball. and basketball. 18, 20 and 22 W. Filth St.

enough to get planks for the top, saw] In my selection this week I am pick- Cleara f ce g a | p CHARLOTTE, N. C.
ing—without showing partiatlity to any

J. A. THAMES, . . . Agent

man—a football team which I believe is

the best that can be selected from the ’ ’
“D” men in this department for the past All Men’s and Boys
four years. Three of these men—Flow-

ers, Grey and King—have been men- Overcoats
tioned as All-American material by sev \
eral noted sport writers, while a good

number—four | believe—were mention-

ed on All-Southern teams. It is certain

that we have always had more than our

shore picked for All-State teams. “lhe Buy Now and
selection is as follows:

King, G. M., '18—R. E.: Bristol.

BOOKS.-STATIONARY. NOVELTIES

Brockmann’s

224 S. TRYON ST. CHARLOTTE. N. C.

Brady Printing Co.

Statesville : Werth Carelina

writes: “The soldiers who have been Tenn.: height. 5 feet inches: weight
there do not think of the Red Cross as eee Cot TS) WEIRDE. av Nn y The College
an organization. To us, it is but a 155 pounds; (Captain, 1917). Cc O e PRINTERS

Walker, R. B.. '18—L. E.; Colum-
bia, S. C.; height, 5 feet 11 inches: _—_——
weight, 160 pounds; (Captain-elect,

1917).
Anderson, L. H., '15—R. T.; Ander- e ro S
son, S. C.; height. 6 feet 2 inches, e

weight, 174 pounds.
Howell, G. E., ’15—L. T.; Rocking- CHARLOTTE, N. C.

ham, N. C.; height, 5 feet 11 inches;
weight. 166 pounds; (Captain, 1915).

Sayad, W. Y., '17—R. G.; Urumia DRY CLEANING

Persia; height, 5 feet 5 inches; weight,

175 pounds. High Grade Laundering

Grey, H. M., °18—L. G.; Davidson,
N. C.; height, 5 feet 8 inches; weight, Hats Cleaned &

185 pounds. Reblocked

White, B. N., ’17—-C.; Danielsville,
The Charlotte Laundry |61¢ cuestnu st. Philadelphia

Ga.; height, 6 feet 1 inch; weight, 178
pounds; (Captain, 1916).
Oldest Largest Best
A.S. Petts, College Agent, 26 Chambers BOOST the ATHLETIC Association
By Backing

Keesler, §. R., '17—Q. B.: Green-
Laundry collected every TUESDAY night
,| Lhe Commissary
Onion Theological

wood, Miss.; height, 5 feet 5 inches:
weight, 135 pounds.

Full Line of Athletic Geeds, Felt

Semin ary Goods, and other College Supplies

RICHMOND, VA.

McKinnon, W. B., ‘16—F. B.;
LOW PRICES OUR MOTTO
For information, address:

Brunswick, Ga. ; height, § feet 11 inches;
weight, 190 pounds; (Captain-elect.
| FOR
W.W. Moore, D.D., LLD. a
Pring y|Gents’ Furnishings,
rincipal "

branch of the Army.” “If the Red
Cross workers who handle surgical dress-
ings could realize even to half the ex-
tent, the importance, the vital importance
of their work, there would be three
women to each job where there is one
now.” ‘You may save the life of your
own son, husband, brother or sweetheart
by commencing to work for Red Cross
in the next hour.” So speaks one who
has been saved on the field by the Red
Cross.

On account of the church services
every afternoon in the week from the
18th to 24th it will be necessary to close
the work room, but it is hoped that every
worker will be in her place on Monday
afternoon, the 25th, with a new store of
energy and enthusiasm.

it yeu want Coed Printing and Quick
Service—BRADY is the Man to Do It

GILBERT & MADDREY
AT THE COMMISSARY
Are Oar Representatives at the College

The Hoover & Smith Co.

SS

Official Fraternity

Jewelers

DR. LINGLE TRANSFERRED
TO WORK AMONG FRENCH

Extract from a letter from Dr. T. W.
Lingle. written on January 20, from
Paris, Rue Lafayette 13, as mailing ad-
dress:

On November 23 I was transferred
to work in the French army, and I am
now stationed in a camp in the forest to
which men come back from the batteries
and trenches to rest while forwarding
munitions to their comrades. At present
a good many men from one of France's
most famous artillery regiments are in
camp—a fine bunch of men. I am the
only American in these parts and at pres-
ent there seems to be no foregners of
any kind in this sector, not even French
Colonial troops who were so numerous
until six weeks ago. The men I see these
days make me think they will hold their
part of the line against all comers, just
as they did when the terrible smash was
undertaken before. A great German of-
fensive in the near future may budge the
line for a day or two or three till the
French and British are able to get their
men and supplies to the point in ques-
tion, but I feel very confident that the
Allies will hold fast, just as they have
always done since the Marne. I can’t
believe the Germans believe they have
any opportunity at all after the coming
June. It is now or never with them.

1915).

Black, J. M., '18-—R. H. B.; Harris-
burg, N: C.; height. 5 feet to inches;
weight, 170 pounds.

Flowers, A. R. '20—L. H. B.; Sump
ter, §. C.; height, 5 feet 7.5 inches:
weight, 150 pounds.

The baseball selection will follow next
week. np. 18.

DR. JUSTICE ADDRESSES
AESCULAPIAN CLUB

A meeting of the Aesculapian Club
was held in the Eumenean Hall ‘Mues-
day night, February 5. The club adopt-
ed for its colors Purple and Old Gold.
After the business had been transacted
the following men were initiated: C.
M. McCaskill, B. O. Clark, R. C. Ber
nan, A. D. Mason, Jr., and Hooker. An
informal but enjovable feed was then
given in honor of the new men.

On Wednesday night, February 13.
Dr. Z. K. Justice addressed the club in
Shearer Hall. His address dealt mainly
with the sources of infection; the defin-
ing of commonly misunderstood medical
terms; and quarantine as a means of pub-
lic safety.

The club is exercising every effort to
get a meningitis specialist to make an ad-

Furniture,
Household Furnish-

ings, etc., go to

—When in Mooresville Visit—

The Miller-White
Drug Company

Special Attention to Davidson Men

A BIG MPROVEMENT (¥.H. GOODRUM & CO.’S STORE
Doing more WorkjWe can supply your wants
. and
Better Work
The New Steam Press at the Old

F. D. Hall, "19, left last Monday for Faculty - Students

Annapolis, where he will remain for two
months. After taking his final examina-|dress before the student body. The club Stand Have You Any Type-
tion for entrance to Annapolis, he will|has on hand some literature on cerebro- Tobe Johnson writing to Be Done?

spinal meningitis, and wil] be glad to

return and finish his work here until ; E be
lend it to anyone interested in it.

called. 17 Years at the Same Place’See Bellingrath, 69 Chambers
