Vol. V.

Excellent Program
Rendered at Lyceum

Each Performer Makes Good Im-
pression on Audience.

The Winona Entertainment Company
was the lyceum attraction last Saturday
night, and a large and appreciative audi-
ence was present to enjoy one of the best
entertainments ever given here by a ly-
ceum company. The program, consisting
of readings, solos and impersonations
in make-up, closing with a brilliant little
sketch, was one that kept the audience
pleased and entertained from beginning
to end.

Miss Greilick, appearing in piano
monologues, action songs, and in the
sketch “The Talkative Husband and the
Deserted Wife,” with Mr. Caldwell.
had a pleasing personality and displayed
excellent ability in the histrionic art.
Her “Songs of the Pyrenees” were also
good. Miss Chaney was a favorite with
her violin, and received numerous en-
cores, ;

Mr. Caldwell, a young gentleman of
good humor and pleasing manner, was
excellent in his impersonations. His
work was of the highest order, showing
talent and ability, which should com-
mend him before any audience.

W. S. S.

In an_ interview with Postmaster
Cranford relative to the sale of Thrift
and War Savings Stamps thru the Dav-
idson office, he says:
manifested by the people of the town
and college. Many of the students are
buying systematically each day with their
savings.

“R. F. D. carriers have been very act-
ive and find a ready response. One car-
rier has sold more than $400 worth.
The total sales from the Davidson office
aggregate more than $3,000, ' which
means an average of more than $1, 50
for each man, woman and child receiv-
ing mail from this office.”

This is a fine way for every one to
help shorten and win the war and also
is a fine avenue of approach in learning
the importance of saving.

The American people have responded
to the call of duty to economize and
save. They have not only purchased
nearly $6,000,000.000 of Liberty Loan
Bonds and War Savings Stamps, but in
addition they have increased their sav-
ings as above shown. Patriotism and
saving are synonymous now, and econ-
omy is a duty, and many millions of
American citizens are doing their duty
in this particular.

This parody, which might be of inter-
est to the Senior English class, ought to
make Shakespeare squirm worse than the
Bacon controversy :

“To wed or not to wed:
That is the question:
Whether ‘tis better
To remain single
And disappoint a few women
For a time,
Or marry
And disappoint one woman

For life!” —Ex.

THEDAV!

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.. JANUARY 30, 1918.

Basketball Team Makes Splendid
Showing on Virginia Trip

V. M. 1. Game is Only Defeat, “While Wildcats Triumph Over W. & L.,

“Much interest is |

V. P. L, Roaneke,

In her initial game of the season Da-
vidson defeated the Washington and Lee
quint by the decisive score of 33 to 20.
Washington and Lee exhibited a splen-
did type of basketball but the strong de-
fensive work of the entire Wildcat team
coupled with the goal shooting of King
and Hengeveld was too much for the
“Generals.” Davidson took the lead
from the first and at the end of the first
half was holding down the big end of «
17-10 score. She continued to hold
down the big end thru the rest of the
game without much trouble. .

The teams lined up:

W. AND L. POSITION. b. c.
McCain.........RF....... King
Cunningham..... LF...... Flowers
sr ae . Hengeveld
Fain... .....0.04. dT. WwW. McAlister

Atkins. ......... re .. L.C.McAskill

Referee: Goodwin. Time of halves:
20 minutes.

Vv. M. bL GAME

Roanoke, Va.—On fhe floor .of the
here, the Cadets
from Virginia Military Institute defeat-
29 to

Central Y. M. C. A.

ed the Wildcats, from Davidson,

12.

Vv. M. CT. easily excelled in goal

shooting and to this fact alone is due her
victory, for in every other branch of the

game Davidson readily held her own.
The work of Marshall and Leach,
V. M. I.. was spectacular and was in a

large measure responsible for V. M. I.’s

victory. Davidson was handicapped by

the smallness of the floor and was unable

The

to get the range of the baskets.
work of McAlister, at guard, featured

for Davidson. Summary:
Vv. M.I. POSITION. DAVIDSON.
Gary, Lee....... RF..... . King
Marshall........ LF... .... Flowers
Backarach........ Re . Hengeveld
Leech... ...... . i. W. McAlister
Engleby....... .. LF. .L.C.McAskill
Referee: Lieutenant Brunet. Time
of halves, 20 minutes.

v. P. 1. GAME
Blacksburg, Va—In what promised

to be one of the season’s best games, Da-}"

vidson defeated her old antagonist, V. P.
I., to the tune of 49-20. The D. C.
machine was running well, so the tune
was very musical, In this game, the
Wildcats really struck their stride, and
displayed a type of basketball seldom
seen. Too much cannot be said of the
work of Captain King. His goal work
was spectacular almost to the point of
monotony, the total number of baskets
he caged adding up fifteen. Hengeveld
and Flowers also scored heavily. Mc-
Alister and McAskill played splendid
defensive and passing games. The Techs
never stopped fighting, with the old V.
P. I. spirit, but even that and the good
work of Wrenn and Wharton, particu-
larly, could not change the result.

Vv. PLL. POSITION. DAVIDSON.
Walker, Peyton..LF . =..... Flowers
Wrenn..........RF........ King
Wharton.........C. ... + Hengeveld
Crisp... ..LG..... McAskill
Brooks..........RG..... McAlister

for

SONIAN

No. 16

Davidson Polity Club
Has Been Reorganized

Students From Two Upper Classes

and Winston “Y.” Invited to Join.

ROANOKE COLLEGE GAME

Salem, Va.—Though fighting hard,
the Roanoke College -quint, on their
home floor, could not stop the victorious
Davidson team in their drive to victory.
Davidson showed superiority in every
branch of the game the floor work
and passing of Hengeveld was the best
seen in Salem for several seasons. Flow
ers also ran up a good score. ‘Tht de-
fensive work of the Davidson quint al
lowed it an carly lead which they ‘main-
tained until the final whistle. “The final
count showed Davidson leading 43 17.

At a meeting of the Polity Club, held
last week, it was decided to increase the
membership of the club by the addition
of a number of men from the Senior an
Junior classes who are interested in tl
work that the club is doing.

The International Polity Club was
organized at Davidson year before last,
and has for its aims the study of inter-
national relations and problems. [tis
the local branch of the Federation of
International Polity Clubs, a national
organization, and similar clubs are to be
found at many of the leading univerities

ROANOKE COL. POSITION. DAVIDSON

Brown.......... LF....... Flowers| and colleges of the United States. ‘he
Painter.......... RF........ King | organization is in no way associted with
Romen........... C..... + Hengeveld any pacifist movement, being endowed
Rhyne. ......... LG . ~ McAskill | by the Carnegie Foundation, and its aim
Atkinson........ RG. | McAlister is to encourage and help thoughtful col-

lege men to study and think about the
problems and relations of nation with
nation, to look upon such questions in
an intelligent and broad manner, to cul-
tivate what is commonly known as “the
international mind,” especially import-
ant at this time when the world is in up-
heaval. With this end in view, the Fed-
eration presents books on international
questions and other literature to the
clubs, sends them speakers of note, and
holds conferences on international rela-
tions each year, to which one or two
members of each club are invited. It
has achieved much in its field, and the
club at Davidson has derived consider-
able profit from the movement.

The Polity Club here would be glad
to receive the names of any members of

Referee: Lieutenant ‘Burnett. Time
of halves: 20 minutes.
WINSTON-SALEM GAME

Winston-Salem, N. C—In the final
game on her first trip Davidson easily
defeated the Winston-Salem “Y" quint
on the latter's floor, Thursday evening,
24th. D. C.. using her reserves ins the
first half, piled up a score of 36-16
against her opponents. Captain King
alone added twenty points to Davidson's
score. Hall and Schenck showed up
well. Kimball. for “Winston Y," ted
his team in scoring. The Davidson
Varsity plaved the last half. Hengeveld
shot seven goals in this last period. Final
score: D.C. 55; Winston Y. M. C.
A., 33.

DAVIDSON. POSITION. WINSTON Y.

Alexander....... LF...... Kimball] the Senior and Junior classes interested
King........... RF....... Ripley] in such matters who would like to be-
L.C. McAskill. ...C 0... ~ Cash {come members of the club, and they are
W.M. Hall..... LG........ Dean| asked to hand in their hames either to
Schenck. ........ RG....... Crute| J. A. ‘Phames, president, or W. C. Cum-

ming, secretary, and they will be placed
before the club for consideration. The
club has recently received a number of
the latest books on the war and_ inter-
national questions, and a study will be
made of these during the spring term.

‘Substitutions: Flowers for Alexander,
McAskill for Hall, Hengeveld for Mc
Askill, McAlister for Schenck. Referee:

Sebring. Time of halves: 20 minutes.

P.Ct.
800

Won. Lost.
Davidson ......... 4 1

DATE OF JUNIOR

GUILFORD GAME FRIDAY SPEAKING 1S CHANGED

Davidson rooters will have their first
chance to see their baskethall team in
action, when it plays Guilford College.
Friday night. This game will be fought
out on the new floor, where there is
plenty of room for the crowd and for
enthusiasm. ‘There are three of last
year's players on the Guilford team, and
it has been playing good ball, beating
Atlantic Christian College by a big
score. “The game here promises to be a
close one and will call for some real
Davidson “pep.” A second game will
be played with Guilford on Saturday
night in Statesville.

With Junior Speaking just three
weeks off, the members of the Junior
class are hard at work on their orations.
Already the arrangements committte,
composed of J. J. Love, chairman; R.
D. Hall and W. M. Currie, has or-
dered the invitations which should be
here within the next ten days. About
fifty Juniors have handed in their sub-
jects which indicates that 19's speaking
will be up to the usual standard both in
quality and quantity. Altho the cata-
log says that Tunior Speaking was to be
held on March 1 and 2, theafaculty com-
mittee has decided that the date should
be February 22 and 23.

The Old Gold and Blackh—Woftord
was represented at the quadrennial meet-
ing of the Student Volunteers of North
America, which was held at East North-
field, Mass., January 3-6. Her repre-
sentative, who is president of the South
Carolina Volunteer Union, described his
trip and experiences very interestingly.

A college paper's a great invention.
The college gets all the fame,
The printer gets all the money;
But the staff gets all the blame.
—Ex.
