+

SONIAN

Vol. VI. ‘

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON. N. C.. OCTOBER 30, 1918.

No. 5

Mr. Moore Conducts

Inspiring Meeting |.

Co. “A” Wins Close

Game From Co. “B”

“Y” Meeting Held in Shearer Hall—|Old-Time Pep is Shown—Competition

Large Attendance.

The surety of an ideal Army Y. M.
C. A. at Davidson was convincingly
evidenced last Sunday night by the in-
tensity of the enthusiasm shown at the
religious meeting held in Shearer Hall.
The meeting began at 6:45 and ended at
.7:30. It began with a song service,

. which was followed. by scripture reading.
For the delectation of the audience Pri-
vate Morgan sang a solo, after which
Mr. Moore, the ‘‘Y” secretary, made a
talk that was indeed assuring and com-
forting to all, His talk was friendly and
advisory, coming, as the men knew, from
his experience and unforced intimacy
with soldiers.

He spoke of the difference between the
former college conditions at Davidson
and the conditions brought on by the
establishment of the §. A. T. C. After

. picturing the two in comparison, he spoke
about the consequental difficulty that the
men would encounter in accustoming
themselves to army life. Mr. Moore
admonished the men against the ten-
dencies toward profanity, shifting re-
sponsibility, and losing personal religious
devotion; saying these were tendencies
that were common to nearly every sol-
dier, and that every man ought to resist
them. He said that soldiers divided
themselves into two classes. In one class
the men, being relieved of personal re-
sponsibility, and deprived of freedom,
just wandered along in a desultory man-
ner without any cares or ambitions. In
the other class the men were ambitious,
vigorous, and desirous of a good name.
From this class; Mr. Moore said, the
officers came, because the armv cannot
be better than the officers. He ended
with a strong and persuasive plea for
perseverance, saying that it was perse-
verance that always won in the end.

Mr. Moore spoke in such a vlain and
friendly way that his message went home
to every man present, and aroused in the
hearts of everyone a warm and true de-
votion for the man who has come here to
be the center of a mutual and unselfish
friendship.

QUARANTINE LIFTED.

The idle gossipers (of whom we trust
there are few) of Davidson campus are
now in a blue state of affairs. One of
their principal topics of conversation has
been rudely snatched from them. Like-
wise the rumor originators—and_ their
number must be legion from the results
obtained—must look elsewhere for ideas
with which to Start their imaginations
working. As for the rest of us. we wish
to state with unstinted joy: “The quar-
antine is lifted.” Sunday at 1 p. m. the
great question was answered. At 1:05
p. m. the campus was deserted. No
longer is the subject discussed in the fu-
ture tense, but in the past. While be-
yond the railroad and Cornelius are for-
bidden grounds, we are still thankful
that we can go to the postoffice, drug
‘stores, and around in town. Church
will, in all probability, be resumed next
Sunday.

is Keen.

On Saturday night last Company A
defeated Company B, 15 to. 11. Froma
gallery observer's standpoint, interest in
basketball, .and especially company bas-
ketball, has increased. From beginning
to end there was not a single dull mo-
ment during the game. Company A’s
team was a more experienced team as a
whole, but they seemed to be very evenly
matched. The outstanding stars for
Company A were: Johnson, guard, and
Davenport, forward. It was Johnson's
splendid guarding that probably saved
the game form Company A. Finley, as
center, also put up a mighty good game.
For Company B. Roberts and White
showed up well. Cornelson, a new man,
played a very good game at forward.

The S. A. T. C. and student body
look forward with interest as to the out-
come of next Saturday night’s game,
when these two teams clash again’ No
doubt it will be a thriller.

The line-up for the companies were
as follows:
Company d.
Craig... ..

Company B.
we ee ee ee es MeKeithan
Right forward
Davenport .. .. . .. Cornelson

Left forward

Finley .. .. .. 2... .. 2... Roberts

Center

Johnson .. .. .. «2... «2». Crouch
Right Guard

Schenck .. .. .. 2... 0... .. White
Left guard

Substitutions: Company B, Neal for

McKeithan, McKeithan for Neal.
CO. C VERSUS CO. D.

In the game which followed between
Company C and Company D the same
pep was displayed as:in the first contest.
altho the decision was never in as much
doubt. Rumple “came into her own” on
that night, for Company C, as well as
Company A, was victorious, and the
score of 24 to 14 was chalked up against
the gentlemen from Watts. This set-to
was featured by the playing of Foster for
the “eighteen-year-old” and of Harwell
for the “Boy Scouts.”

The line-up was as follows:
Company C. Company D.
Chalmers .. .. .. .. .. .. Alexander

- Right forward
Breitenhirt .. .

wee ee ee oe ee Price
Left forward

Foster .. . se ee ee ee es Denney
Center
Brice... .. .. 2... .. .. .. Harwell
v Right guard
Gilchrist .. .. .. .. Scott

- ‘Left forward
Subs: Company C, Johnson, Sprunt,
Ormand, Cochran. Company D, Rob-
son.

The company instructor had spent
much time in explaining the general or-
ders of the sentinel and had directed
that they must be learned by heart. An
hour later Private (name omitted
thru kindness of heart) caught systema-
tically learning by heart every order
tacked on the bulletin board. That's no
ie.

Wofford Here Saturday.

6

uw” Situation in Town

First Game of Season| Is Now Much Improved

Capt. Burns’ Absence Keenly Felt.
Good Scrap Expected.

Saturday will see a good old-time grid-
iron scrap on Sprunt Field that would
warm the heart of every Davidson man.
The Black and Gold eleven from Wof-
ford will make an invasion on the cam-
pus, and it’s a cinch they will be black
and blue by the time Coach's little sau-
sage machine grinds them up. Last Sat-
urday night isn’t a circumstance to the
pep the student body will let loose, and
Coach Bill's little army will know for
certain that it has 350 students or sol-
diers (whichever you want to call them)
behind it.

Wofford reports a good team this year
and promises to put up a more interest-
ing game than she did last year. On the
other hand our team is working fine,
with a month's tmining and practice be-
hind it, and a splendid, tho brief, season
in front of it. With only four letter
men back this fall, the team is now a
clockwork machine, with a strong, tho as
usual, light. line, and a fast backfield.
Uncle Sam said he wanted Captain
“Buck” Burns more than we did, which
is saying a lot, and carried him off to the
army, much to the dismay of local foot-
ball fans. Every effort was made to ob-
tain a permit for Burns to remain in the
S. A. T. C., but having registered prior
to September 12, the draft claimed him
and he is now stationed at Camp Jack-
son. “Buck” leaves a position hard to
fill in the backfield and his loss will be
seriously felt. ‘Che student bady wishes
him good luck as he goes to camp.

Henry Massey’s line bucking has fea-
tured lately, and he promises ably to fill
“Buck's” place. Spann, at quarter, and
Johnson and Lacy McAllister, at halves,
will rip things up behind the line. Bill
Crouch and George Miley are holding
down the ends; “Big Mac” cheerfully
tears thing up in the line, with “Pigiron”
and Cornelson at the other tackle.
George Robson and Brady are right
there at guards, and Robins at center. It
remains to be seen how Coach will line
them up Saturday, but look out Wof-
ford!

Fellows, shake things up Saturday and
raise sand in general. Lock up every
fellow in the guard house who doesn’t
go to the game. Show him he has no
business showing his face on the campus.
Turn over the old pepper pot and back
the team to the last touchdown.

CHANGE IS MADE IN
DAVIDSONIAN STAFF

Due to his heavy duties as first ser-
geant of Company C, D. M. Chalmers
has been forced to resign his position as
managing editor of The Davidsonian.
J. R. Boulware, Jr., will succeed him in
‘this position, and we feel sure that he
will successfully hold down this the
hardest job on the whole staff.

HORSE TRADER.

Clerk—“Yes, this pony will do half
your work in Latin.” ;
Freshie—“Gimme two, quick !”—Ex.

Red Cross Chapter Secured Nurses—
Miss Hill in Charge.

The influenza situation in the town is
improving rapidly. The quarantine has
not yet been lifted, as all danger has not
passed. However, there are very few
cases, only two being reported Friday.
Among those who are sick are two cases
of pneumonia, one of which was re-
ported as serious Sunday. All the other
patients are doing well and should be
out in a few days. Neither the school
nor factories have opened yet, as those in
charge do not think it wise to start work
while there ‘is a possibility of contagion.

In all there have been over one hun-
dred and fifty cases since the nurses took
charge. There were quite a number of
cases of which no record was kept, there-
fore no exact figures can be given. The
“flu” did its worst work among the ne-
groes, where ignorance of care and pro-
tection caused its widespread. There
were three deaths among the negroes.

Miss Hill has had charge of the work,~
beginning in the town as soon as she
could be spared from the campus. She
was assisted in this work by Miss Mc-
Dade, Miss Worth and several of the
town ladies.

The condition was so much improved
Saturday that Miss Hill left for the
University of Indiana to help in an in-
fluenza epidemic there. Miss McDade
is in charge now, but expects to leave in
the near future.

LOCAL RED CROS AIDS IN
“FLU” EPIDEMIC IN TOWN

No sooner had the Spanish influenza
scourge been driven from the college
campus than it selected the town of Da-
vidson as its new field of activity. With-
in the past two weeks the epidemic in- —
creased with great rapidity, until it was
found necessary to call upon the local
Red Cross for assistance,

The Red Cross responded immediate-
ly, securing two trained nurses, who
were put at the disposal of . the town
council. Miss Hill, employed to take
charge, made a survey of the village, not
only taking in the mill district, but all
surrounding localities, going as far as
Sherrytown. Under her able supervis-
ion medicine, food and nurses were sup-
plied to the needy. The mills saw the
need of nurses, and secured another
nurse, Miss McDade.

The Red Cross handled approximate-
ly between 75 and 100 cases of sickness.
With the same self-sacrifice and devo-
tion that was shown in their work dur-
ing the college epidemic, they took hold
of the town situation, and not one single
death occurred after their taking con-
trol, altho several cases of pneumonia
developed. There were five deaths re-
sulting from pneumonia following in-
fluenza before the Red Cross took
charge, most of these being among the
negroes. .

The crisis in the town has passed, and
all are on the road to recovery. Only
two families still have much sickness.
The mills, however, will not open yet.
