THEDAV!.

ISONIA

Vol. VI.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON. N. C.. OCTOBER 9, 1918.

No. 2

Photo by the Mooes, Charlotte, N. C.

STUDENTS’ ARMY TRAINING CORPS, DAVIDSON COLLEGE.

“Flu” Epidemic Takes
Heavy Toll at Davidson

Situation Much Improved, Is Well
Under Centre? Now.

Davidson College has had a_ severe
visitation of Spanish influenza, und
everyone on the campus at least, ought
to be thankful that it is not a dangerous
disease. Shortly after the first case ap-
peared the regular college infirmary. was
fully occupied. ‘The first fioor of the
south wing of Chambers was then re-
sorted to and a nurse was secured to take
charge. It soon became necessary to use
the second and third floors, and nurses
were secured to take charge of each floor.
At one time there were over a hundred
and fifty men in the infirmary suffering
from this ailment. Such conditions as
this were new at Davidson, and the
problem arising was altogether a new
one. But it was not beyond the manage-
ment of the four trained nurses, and the
Davidson ladies of the Red Cross, by
whose kind help and succor the suffering
has been wonderfully alleviated.

To provide for the necessary cooking,

_ two kitchens were improvised in the
building, and utensils and supplies were
bought in Charlotte.

A large supply of pillow cases, sheets
and towels was necessary and was secur-
ed in Charlotte. All the needs of the
patients have been supplied and the epi-
demic is pretty well under control.

The Spanish influenza has reached its
climax at Davidson, and will soon make
its departure. Convalescing quarters are
already necessary. The west side of
Rumple is being used for this purpose.

Too much praise can not be given the
ladies of the Davidson Red Cross Chap-
ter who have worked unceasingly to
provide for and attend to the sick. The
professors also have rendered much aid
and have organized themselves into shifts
which change at regular hours. All
classes have been suspended for the
present and the campus is in strict quar-
antine, no one being allowed to leave the
campus without the written permission
of an officer.

Everything possible under the present
circumstances has been done for the com-
fort and convenience of the patients.

Mention should also be made of the
tvork of Dr. Withers, who has been
called upon very frequently to attend to
new cases. ;

The situation is now well under con-
trol and very few new cases are develop-

ing.
Dr. Clayburg and his corps of assist-

Memorable Ceremony Is Held at Formal
Inauguration of S. A. T. C: at Davidson

Messages Frem the President, Secreiary of War and Others are
Read.

A most impressive gathering was held
at noon on the first day of October. It
was indeed a historic ceremony and one
that will long be remembered by its
participants and those from the town
who were present. It marked the formal
inauguration of the Students’ Army
Training Corps at Davidson College.
The battalion was formed in the shape
of a square around the foot of the flag-
pole and messages from the President
and many other prominent men were
read by the officers present.

The ceremony was begun with a pray-
er by Dr. C. M. Richards. Lieut. R. G.
Dennard stated that at that very hour
over one hundred and fifty thousand
students in more than five hundred col-
leges were standing at attention in a
ceremony similar to that one.

Messages from President Woodrow
‘Wilson, Secretary of War Newton D.
Baker, Col. R. I. Rees and others were
read by Lieutenants Candler, Dwyer
and Doverspike.

The following message from the Pres-
ident was read: “The step you have
taken is a most significant one. By it
you have ceased to be merely individuals,
each seeking to perfect himself to win
his own place in the world, and have
become comrades in the common cause
of making the world a better place to
live in. . You have joined yourselves with
the entire manhood of the country and
pledged, as did your forefathers, ‘your
lives, your fortunes, and your sacred
honor,’ to the freedom of humanity.

“The enterprise upon which you have
embarked is a hazardous and difficult
one. This is not a war of words; this
is not a scholastic struggle. It is a war
of ideals, yet fought with all the de-
vices of science and with all the power
of machines. To succeed, you must not
only be inspired by the ideals for which
this country stands but you must also be
masters of the technique with which the
battle is fought. You must not only be
thrilled with zeal for the common wel-
fare, but you must also be masters of the
weapons of today.

“There can be no doubt of the issue.
The spirit that is revealed and the man-
ner in which America has responded to

ants in the sanitary work are kept busy
preparing the rooms for re-occupation by
fumigating them.

the call is indomitable. I have no doubt
that you too will) use your utmost
strength to maintain that spirit and to
carry it forward to the final victory that
will certainly be ours.
“Woodrow Wilson.”

The flag was raised and the oath of
allegiance was taken by the members of
the §. A. T. C. Dr. Martin spoke in
behalf of the college and stirred all pres-
ent. The picture shown on page 1 was
then made.

LT. FRANK H. SMITH
KILLED IN ACCIDENT

It is with great sorrow that all Da-
vidson men learn of the death of Le.

Frank H. Smith, '16.

Smith graduated at Davidson in '16
with first honors. He taught at McCal-
lie the next year, and enlisted in the
Aviation Corps about a year ago.

After special training at Georgia
Tech., he was sent to Taliaferro Field,
Fort Worth, Tex., where he has been
flying for four months.

In an airplane collision about noon.
October 5, he was fatally wounded. His
body has been sent to his home in Easley,
S. C., where it will be interred Monday
or Tuesday.

Everyone who knew Licutenant Smith
admired him and recognized him as a
great leader.

The heartfelt sympathy of every Da-
vidson man is extended to the mother
and relatives of our beloved alumnus.

ALL MUSICIANS URGED
TO JOIN ORCHESTRA

The prospects for an Orchestra and
Glee Club are not so encouraging this
year, but the manager of the Glee Club
hopes that both can be worked into good
shape. Everybody that can plav any

j kind of instrument or sing at all are

urged to come out to the practices and
make this club a success.

The old members who have returned
are M. A. Tremain, F.*M. Thompson,
and A. M. Spann, in the Orchestra; and
G. D. Green, C. R. Vance and B. E.

Football Prospects
Seem to be Good

Davidson will have a football team
this year and will carry out part of her
schedule. This is the good news that
greeted every Davidson man and every
Davidson admirer when college opened.
The government has installed a Seudent
Army Training Corps at Davidson, but
we are glad that Uncle Sam realizes the
importance of athletic training for his
soldiers and has made provision for foot-
ball in the course of training. Our col-
lege athletes in France have demonstrat-
ed their ability and have entered the
fight fine specimens physically and with
the same spirit and deterniination dis-
played on the gridiron. The United
States realizes the true value of athletics
and we are more than glad that she has
provided for football this year in her
Student Army Training Corps.

It thrills the heart of every true
sportsman and fills the heart of every
Davidson man with pride to recall the
brilliant success of Davidson’s team last
season. And yet, when we remember
that at the beginning of last season
Coach Fetzer had only the same number
of old men back as this year around
which to build his team, it makes us
hopeful. ‘The success of last year’s team
was due in many ways to Coach Fetzer,
and with “Coach” back this year we are
confident of another successful season.

Captain A. C. Burns, W. B. Crouch,
Spann and McMasters are the “D” men
back who will form the nucleus of this
year’s team. With this quartet of the
“old squad” back, Davidson will more
than live up to her former records.
Many of Jast year's reserves are back in
the game and among them L. L. Mc-
Alister, 8. M. Brady, C. B. Robson, P.
G. Sutton, Miley, L. W.  Fischel,
Thompson and F. L. White. A large
number of new men are out and from
the present prospects this material will
be a valuable asset to the team. John-
son, a former Fishburne man, is show-
ing up well in the backfield.

Mr. and Mrs. Wright, of Winston-
Salem, the parents of Forest Wright,
motored to Davidson last Monday. They
were accompanied by Mrs. D. C. Lilly,

Shields, in the Glee Club. All the old| the mother of E. G. Lilly, ’19.

members of the Guitar and Mandolin],

Club are back, and everybody that can

play either of these instrument is urged] M. Chalmers, ‘20,
to join them.

. ° *

Mrs, J. T. Chalmers, mother of D.
spent Friday in Da-

vidson. J

FELLOWS -- Patronize Our ADVERTISERS -- They Make THE DAVIDSONIAN Possible
