ee

i

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON. N. C.. MARCH 13, 1918.

No. 22

From the beginning of practice our
basketball prospects looked good and _ re-
sults justified our expectations. Altho
Reese, Wood, Walker and Childs, all
stars of last year’s team, were lost to the
team, with men like Hengeveld, King
and McAlister back, a good year was
assured. MIsAskill stepped into the
place left vacant by “Bob”? Walker and
played fine basketball thru the entire
season. “Dutch” Hengeveld. at center
Was a sensation in most of the games.
With King back at his old forward the
other forward was the only position left.
‘The work in that corner was divided
between Flowers, Davenport and W.
M. Hall, with Flowers “having an edge
on the other two.”

‘The season opened with the trip thru!

the Valley of Virginia. Preliminary
games had been cancelled so the first
game of the season was in the Washing-
ton and Lee gym at Lexington. Da-
vidson’s teamwork — particularly — the
work of Hengeveld—proved too much
tor the Generals, who were forced to
take the count and Davidson hung up a
33-20 victory as a season starter.

The Wildcats next met V. M. I., in
Roanoke. The floor on which — they
played was too small for ten men to play
at once, and this handicap and the work
of Marshall and Leach for the Cadets
cost Davidson a game.

The Wildcats went wilder than ever
when they met V. P. I., in Blacksburg.
Captain King went worse than wild and
caged up 15 field goals, while the whole
Tech team could
Hengeveld scored heavily and the work
of the guards was excellent.

Roanoke and Winston-Salem “Y”
fell before the drive of the Red and
Black quint and the team returned to
the Hill with four vistories from five
games.

After a week’s enforced rest Guilford
came to the Hill to try conclusions with
the Wildcats. The spectators concluded
that the game was too rough for real
basketball and that good team work was
poticeably absent; and Guilford con-
cluded George King was entirely too
fast for their aggregations. The final
score was 37-24.

Then followed another period of idle-
ness and cancelled games. About three
weeks later the Carolina trip began.
Hengeveld was crippled and the whole
team in poor shape. Lack of ‘pep’ en-
abled Guilford to win out over us by
six points. The old spirit revived and
beat Elon, and then a slump and hard-
luck game Trinity and Carolina games.
The Carolina team was probably the
best met during the season and_ their
speed and aggressiveness earned _ their
victory.

The season wound up like the foot-
ball season—the victim in each case was
Clemson. To give Clemson their just
dues it must be said that their team lack-
ed a night’s sleep and rest and so were
not in good condition for a game. Never-
theless they took a lead in the first few
minutes of play, but were unable to
maintain this lead. Hengeveld cut loose

(Continued on page 6)

core but 20 points. |.

ae
a

federate twins.

Since the war, Daniel C.

2, and that of his brother, R.

‘The above is a picture taken in February, 1911, of two among David
son’s oldest alumni, Dunean A. and. Daniel C.
twins, born in 1833, and they have the distinction of being the oldest living Con-
The above picture has appeared in ‘The Confederate Vet
eran” and “Leslie’s Weekly” within. recent years.

Both Duncan A. and Daniel C. Buie matriculated at Davidson College in
1858, and remained here until the spring of their Junior year.
1861, they left with many other of their college mates for the war, enlisting in
the goth North Carolina Heavy Artillery.
distinction, both being promoted to the grade of sergeant. ‘\
Buie has been a farmer and justice of the jeace,
his brother following the same vocations and that of a surveyor as. well,
only were these men born on the same day, but they also have the distinction of
being married on the same day, August 20, 1866,
brated the golden anniversary of their wedding.

The addres of Mr. Duncan A. Buie is Red Springs, N.C... R. F.
F. 1), No. 6.

Buie.

‘These gentlemen are

At that time,

They served thruout the war with

Not
In 1916 both couples cele
1). No.

~—
— eee

Baseball Team is
Rounding Into Shape

Prospects Are Good for Successtul
Season.

Baseball practice is now in full swing.
About forty men in uniform are work-
ing down on Sprunt Field each after-
noon. The diamond is being worked
over and the field put in good’ condition.

Captain Hengeveld, Flowers, ‘‘Pete”
Saunders and Boswell will be the nu-
cleus of the team. “Pete” will, unfor-
tunately, be unable to play, but his
coaching and encouragement will be val

(Continued on page 6)

Camp Life Described
By Lesenat Harper

Many Davidson Men Are at Camp
Jackson Now.

The tollowing is a letter from Lieut.
Jas. C. Harper, 15, stationed at Camp
Jackson, Columbia, $. C.:

Co. 18, sth Tr. Bn. 156 Depot Brigade,
Camp Jackson, $. C., Feb. 24, 1918.
The Alumni Editor, The Davidsonian,

Davidson, N. C.

Dear Sir: “Those of us‘now. in camp
are just as anxious to keep in touch with
the things in progress on the campus
there as you are with us, and the fact
that we are busy all the time petting
ready to lick the stuffing out of “Old
Fritz” doesn’t mean at all that we aren't
interested in the things you fellows are
doing back there in college and that we
don't keep up with events up there as
far as possible,

We have a regular little Davidson col
ony here in our part of the camp. Dr.
J. W. MaeConnell is a captain in’ the
Base Hospital and G. W. Gignilliatr,
15, is one of the Y. M.-C. A. workers
over there. Jim: Carson is an instructor
in the Officers’ “Praining Camp and |
see him nearly every day. PL Mek.
Williams is adjutant -of the 6th ‘Train-
ing Battalion, and J. L. MeLean is as
sistant adjutant of the sth. Ed. Currie
is the chaplain of this brigade and Ward
law “Phompson and your humble servant
are in the 2gth and 18th companies re-
spectively. Your Alumni register prob
ably shows all this information, but. it
might be of interest: to Davipsontan
readers to know that so many old David
son men are so close together and in
touch with each other.

Our experiences here could hardly be
called thrilling, but they have been  in-
tensely interesting and instructive to me
at least and the very privilege of being
in contact with so many men of so many
different kinds is an education in itself.

One thing T have learned is that. if
you make your estimate of a man when
he first gets here even tho you make
every allowance and consideration, you
are almost certain to underestimate him.
Men come in here whom you are tempt
ed to consider almost hopelessly green
and ignorant. You say to yourself “that
man is:hopeless. He will never make
a soldier.” The man is transferred to
some other part of camp and you prob-
ably don't see him for a month or two.
Some day he comes up to you and speaks
to vou and you don’t even recognize
him, so much has he changed. His
whole manner is different and his ap
pearance has so changed you have to

Excellent
FE Cac

Great Dramatic Talent Displayed
by Performers.

We have heard a lot about the hor-
rors of war, yet never until Monday
night did we fuliy realize. what war
meant. But after looking over the Red
Cross performance no one can fail to
appreciate both the horrors and the bene-
fits of war. Now as to the horrors, did
you hear that song by the four who were
five? Did you see that old-fashioned
clog dance? We knew all the time that

look at him twice to believe you have
ever seen him before. Where he tor

merly looked slouchy and dejected he is
now alert and neat as a pin. He prac

tices the forms of military courtesy in a
way he would not have even understood
a few months earlier. It almost seems
impossible that such a great change could
have been wrought in such a short time.
This is not confined to one or two ex

amples, but is the general rule all over
the camp.

Baseball and boxing are the chief in-
terest of the men in our company just
now and both sports are in full swing.

We celebrated Washington's birth-

(Continued on page 6)

(Continued on page 6)
