2 The DAVIDSONIAN, March 13, 1918

LE CERCLE FRANCAIS.

every student with all the potent col-
lege spirit that he possesses. Some of
this potential should be transformed into
kinetic. 1f a student does not have a
good reason other than “studying” he
should be branded as a “stick” and is

The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year
by the Stadents of Davidson College.

¢
Les jeunes: membres du Cercle’ Fran-
cais se montrent aussi fideles qu’ambi-
tieux. Seulement le professeur regrette
qu’ils ont profite vendredi de l'infame

}

EpiroriAt Boarp.

R. H. Stone.......... Editor-in-Chief| not worthy ‘of the name of the Red and| “loi des ching minutes” pour se sauver. by
E. G. Lilly......... Managing Editor| Black spirit. au moment ou il2 paraissait pour leur
E. A. Woods...... Assignment Editor) When “Amo” gets a good program|offrir le privilege d’apparendre la belle
J. A. Thames......... Alumni Editor) for a college spirit meeting and sends| langue dont ils ont parle avec une telle
L. M. Currie.......-. Athletic Editor| someone to get you from White’s and|enthousiasme. Cette loi (comme egale-
Tue STAFF. Jetton’s you: ought to come with a zest ment celle du spectacle du chemise de
L. M. Thomas, Jr R. E. McClure and help to make this the most wonder- | nuit) n est pas adaptee aux sentiments et
‘os ian A. P. Saunders ful baseball season that Davidson has| aux besoins de notre temps, et devrait
J. B. Woods, Jr. —s Wood ” lyet seen. Why not make it Best P. P.?] etre abandonnee, avec les autres reliques
J. B. Daffin J. R. Woods —________. d'une civilisation depuis longtemps pas-
MANAGEMENT. WAR’S EFFECT ON LITERATURE. see. Mais comment changer le monde?! p s ti rH
O. J. Thies, Jr...... Business Manager| No one in this age ever saw such an Les etudiants, sacrifieront-ils jamais leur Brady rin ing 0.
M. A. Siske output of books. If a Rip Van Winkle| droit sacre de hazing” les professeurs :
T. C. Stone....... Assistant Managers| could awake from a lethargy and look] Voici quelques faits importants et in- Statesville : Werth Carolina
R. D. Hall at the book reviews and announcements teressants dont on a fait mention pen- The College .
* dant la derniere reunion du Cercle:

he would know that war had something
to do with the change, even tho he
knew nothing of shell-torn Europe.

Should he read these books he would
find resumes of trench warfare and of
marvelous mobilizations and conditions,
but he would not find a change in
thought. So then we can say that the
war has greatly changed the output, but
the real impress is not generally per-
ceptible. ‘The article in) the March
Book News Monthly, by Thomas Tip-
lady, “After Winter—Spring.” presents
a condiment of war. This is really a
change of thinking, but this an extraor-
dinary case.

The New York Times Book Review
says:
A change in literature is the reflec-
tion of a change in national thought,
an intellectual or social development

PRINTERS

If you want Good Printing and Quick
Service—BRADY is the Man to Do It

GILBERT & MADDREY
AT THE COMMISSARY
Are Our Representatives at the College

Reporters’ STAFP.
Class of '18—S. T. McCloy, D. M.
Orgain.
Class of 't9—W. T. Dunlap, Jr., W.
M. Currie.

Class of '20—L. G. Calhoun, D. W.
Roberts, D. M. Chalmers, Wm.
Love, G. A. Byrd, Jr., H. C. Ham-

ilton.

Additional reporters for this issue are:
D. L. Mahood, A. L. Wilson, J. M.
Walton, J. R. Boulware, Jr., and B.
W. Romefelt.

M. Burgess: La France a presque la
meme superficie que |’Allemagne. Elle
est un peu plus grande que I'Espagne,
et se vante d’une superficie deux fois
celle des Iles Brittanniques. Elle est
une nation colonisatrice, et administre
un empire colonial vingt fois plus grande
qu’elleememe. Apres l’Angleterre La
France est la plus importante nation
colonisatrice.

M. Dishongh: La Langue Anglaise
contient beaucoup de mots empruntes au
francais. Cela s’explique en partie par
le fait que les Normands conquirent
Angleterre en 1066, et plus especiale-
ment par-le fait que la France exerca
une grande influence sur toute ?Furope
au Moyen Age.

M. Elliott: Depuis beaucoup de
siecles la langue francaise a. ete tres

BOOKS.STATIONARY-NOVELTIES

Brockmann’s

224 S. TRYON ST. CHARLOTTE. N. C.

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COL-
LEGIATE YEAR.

The Service for the

Entered as second-class matter at the Postoffice,

Davidson. N.C. lopme ‘ ; _tre . . .
_— that brings us into new relationships|usitee dans la plupart des nations civili- Discriminating
oe. e800 08 8 0 0 8 oo | With the outside world... . It is not|sees du-monde. Pourtant la langue
e| a matter of theme, but of spirit, of]n est pas, a prophement parler, un pro-
: EDITORIAL treatment. . . . Literatures, or even| duit francais, mais elle est une des char- Student

eeeeneeee#eenene#eeteee

avings famps
ith ale anitation
ill fave ullerieg

mantes filles de la langue latine. Pen-
dant 400 ans apres les campagnes de
Jules Cesar la France etait une province
romaine. Les sons harmonieux et liquides
de la langue des francais charment les
yeux. (“Yeux” signige “eyes.” On
peut demander a M. Elliott quel est
l'effet sur les oreilles).

I] est regrettable, pourtant, que les
francais d’aujourd’hui se montrent si ex-
travagants en = reclamant pour leur
langue tune importance preponderante
dans le monde. Nous admettons velon-
tiers que, comme langue, il n'y en a pas
de meilleure, et que peut-etre il n'y ena
pas d’autre quit soit si claire, si belle, et
si harmonieuse. Mais nous pensons que
les francais devraient se survenir que la
societe humaine a fait beaucoup de prog-
res depuis le 17me siecle, et que les posi-
tions relatives des grandes langues du
monde peuvent etre affectees par les con-
ditions changeantes. Mais l’espace nous
manque pour discuter ces choses d’une
maniere suffisante.

changes in literatures are not made in
a day, scarcely in a generation. . . .
That impress is sure to come and
when it does it will inevitably reflect
an America of wider interests, deeper
sympathies, than we have ever known.
Not only has the output been affected
and has there been a presage of the real
advance, but it has added many new
words to our vocabulary. Every paper
and especially the scientific papers use
words which we never heard five years
ago. The style of writing has also been
effected. There is a new hook of
Shakespearean criticism whose first chap-
ter begins in an intensely “blood and
thunder” style. But with all these
changes literature does not interpret hu-
man nature different from the interpre-
tation a decade ago. But when this
charge does come we will have a much
richer vein as a source of our much-
beloved literature.

The Ben-Vonde Co.

The South’s Largest
Exclusive

Dyers and Cleaners

18, 20 and 22 W. Fifth St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

J. A. THAMES, . . . Agent

What has become of the idea of hav-
ing a Camp Greene leader to teach us
war songs?

Pp. PLP,

This caption stands for Poor Pres-
byterian Pep. What has become of the
once famous yet famous old line spirit?
Something has happened to it. Surely
it is just dormant and awaiting a most
wonderful baseball season in which we
are to carry off the laurels. But this
old spirit helps to put these trophies
around the forehead of the team and
Coach Bill.

Coach Fetzer says the Davidson stu-
dent body never could yell, and Coach
is next to infallible. We know that this
is so, but let’s change the old regime
and show that we can yell and manifest
as much pep as anyone ever heard from
a student body ten times our size. This
will take a good deal more of co-opera-
tion than Cheer Leader Love got last
Fall. Were you at the rally mecting
just before the Clemson game? Didn't
Love tell the slackers something? No,
not the slackers, for they were not there,
but he said it about them. They were
called “Dormant drones and fossils.”

There is not even the pep that was
manifested when the present Seniors
were called “Fresh.” When a meeting
was called three-fourths of the student

A. H. Fetting

Manufacturer of

Greek Letter
Fraternity Jewelry

213 N. Liberty St., Baltimore, Md.
Special designs and estimates
furnished on medals, rings,
for athletic meets, ete.

CHANGE IN SENIOR ENGLISH.

There has come about a very profit-
able change in the regular course
planned for Senior English. Dr. Fulton
is going to study with his class “Po-
litical Idealism in English Literature,”
which is the phrase by which he ex-
presses the new addition. First, Moore's
Utopia will be studied, followed by
Shelly’s Prometheus Unbound, and prob-
ably other immortals presaging idgal
states and voicing the cause of democ-
racy. The class was delighted when
Dr. Fulton announced this subject of
study, which will begin immediately.

HONOR ROLL OF THE
LOCAL GRADED SCHOOL

The:
IEDMONT

: THEATRE :
NORTH TRYON ST. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

The local graded school has finished
another month of work and announces
the names of sixteen honor roll pupils.

Second Grade—Jane Leighton Rich-
ards.

Third Grade—Marv Grace Brown,
Charles Torrence and William Howard
Jetton.

Fifth Grade—Richard Grey. Sarah
Barnette and Thomas Lothery.

Sixth Grade—Sophie Richards, Jean

Complete change of
program twice a

body would be there in an hilarious} “Education and culture must. select! Martin. week.
mood. Old Shearer Hall resounded| the facts that concern us as men.”—J| Seventh Grade—Lera Hobbs, Loreta
with pep. The Orchestra would be| Paul Shorey. Mooney, Nancy Grey. Three Shows Daily

Ninth Grade—Anne Lois Barnette.
Tenth Grade—Grace James, Winnie
Campbell and Madge Elliott.

there with the goods. Some of the
facultv were present. Yells, songs. pep,
evervthing was there in shining array
which was a requisite for an ideal meet-
ing.

Tt is somewhat distressing to those of
us who know the past. But this can be
restored. We should soon begin these
rallies and thev should be attended by

Again, W. &. S. First Class Vaudeville

5

Dr. T. J. Withers wishes to make ac-
knowledgement of and to express his
great appreciation of the marked cour-
tesies and kindnesses shown him and his
family .in the recent sickness and death
of his wife.

Friends of Dr. and Mrs. J. M.
Douglas will doubtless be glad to know
that their little son has had his tonsils
successfully temoved and is rapidly re-
covering.

OUR PATRONAGE SOLICITED

Patronize Our Advertisers.
Mention Tue Davipsonian.

