dE DAVIDSONIAN

Vol. VI.

Glee Concert Feature
Of Junior Speaking

One of the main social events of
Junior Speaking will be the Glee Club
concert Saturday night at 8 o'clock, in
Shearer Hall. ‘his club has been hold-
ing regular practices for the past six
weeks, and is now in good shape. “The
personnel of the club has been cut down
and the finjshing touches are now -being
applied to the eighteen men selected.

The features of Saturday night's. en-
tertaimment of character

sketches and quartet work. “Phe chorus
singing of the club has been stressed
more than usual this spring, especially
the novelty part. A real treat is in store
along this line. Added to this will be
several numbers by the mandolin and
guitar trio,

Vhe Glee, Club is planning a trip to
Charlotte, Red Springs and Fayetteville
jor the Tath. rath and rth of March.
Vhe details of this trip have not as vet
heen worked out.

Admission td the concert
night will be 35 cents.

will consist

Saturday

—.

Final Services of
Campaign Successful

Campus Life Purified and Refreshed
as Result of Meeting.

On Tuesday night of last week, after
the usual interesting song service, Dr.
Myers spoke on “The Sin of Indiffer-
ence.” He took as his text. the 36th
verse of the 27th chapter of Matthew:
“And sitting down they watehed him
there.” ;

The great sin of the college man is
not any wrong deed that he commits.
Ic is the omission of those duties which
he should perform. “The most sinful of
men -is the one who sits an the fence be-
tween right and wrong and does noth-
ing. “Phough we cannot sit. as the mul-
titudes did, and see ‘our Lord crucified in
the flesh, yet we allow Him to be cruci-
fied a thousand times in the spirit.

Dr. Myers closed his sermon with the
story of Barabbas. the robber in whose
place Christ was put to death. Christ
took our place just as truly as he did
that of Barabbas. Shall we remain in-
different to Him?

In the third and last meeting of his
campaign. Dr. Myers spoke briefly about
some incidents in the life of Peter and
their lessons for Christians of today.
He prefaced his remarks with the state-
ment that Peter was probably the biggest
man of the New Testament

Peter was first brought to Jesus by
his brother. Andrew. By this one act
Andrew. was the means of saving thou-
sands of souls. Christians of today have
the opportunity of doing untold good in
this same way.

Again. when the disciples had fished
all night and caught nothing, Christ
commanded them to cast their net out in-
to the deep. With Peter as their leader
they did so and the net was filled with
fishes. Christians will never accomplish

(Continued on page 6)

|

Carolina Defeats
Wildcats By Big Score

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C.. MARCH 5, 1919.

Dr. Pratt Speaks On
Great World Need

Passing of Carolina Quint Feature of |Twenty Thousand Men of all Profess-

Game.

With the state championship at stake,
the Davidson basketball quint was de-
feated by the heavier and more experi-
enced University team by the score of
4o to 12. The secret ot the GL N.C.
victory lies in the fact that they passed
tings around Davidson in the first halt,
and rolled cup too Jarge-a score, to be
headed off. “Fhen, too, the White and
Blue were caging the ball accurately
from any angle, while their oppenents
were fumbling and missing even the easy
shots. “Vime after time, Davidson had
the ball right under her own goal, with
a-clean shot, and then failed to tally.
Long shots also failed ta even up the
score altho these were tried several times
by the Wildcats.

The pame was fast and free from
fouls. No personals were called and
only afew -technicals, and these were
excusable on the small court. Once
Carolina obtained the ball, they passed
with speed and suon were in a position
to score, which they nearly aways did.
Not. giving up for an instant, however.
the Wildcats put up a better game than
the score might indicate. “hey played a
good defensive game but lacked the at
tack in their offensive,

Cuthberson, captain and guard for
Carolina, plaved oa wonderful game.
Holding his tonvard scoreless, he pro-
ceeded to score twelve
points and was high man fin 4
the night. Carmichael did not play his
vustial fast game. being hampered by the
small court, but succeeded in caking four
baskets, Schenck, for Davidson, plaved
a hard game. holding his: forward to
two field goals. His hard and accurate
passing was the only outstanding feature
af the Wildeats’ playing. Line-up:

Carolina, Position. Davidson.
Carmichael... . Forward . .. Davenport
hanch. 2... Forward 200... Hall
Lippert. ....... Center . 0... McAckill
Cuthherson, ....Guards. ., .. Chalmers
Morris........ Guard... . . Schenck

Summary—Substitutes: Grifford. for
Morris, Hodges for Lippert, Alexander
fur Davenport. Harrington for Hall.
Cunningham for Chalmers. Field goals:
Carmichael 4. Lynch 2. Lippert 3. Cuth-
herson 6, Morris 2, Grifford 1, Daven-
part 2, McAskill 2, Alexander t. Foul
goals: Lynch 4. Davenpart 2. ‘Fime of
halves: 20 minutes.

JUNIOR SPEAKING
SCHEDULE.

* Friday. 7:30 p. m.—Speaking.

Saturday, 11 a, m.—Speaking.

* 2:30 p. m.—Speaking.

* 4:30 p. m.—Baskethall game.

- 8:00 p. m.—Glee Club Concert.

* — g:00 p. m.—Fraternity Reception.
* * “ -

. * cs -

Rev. Roy Smith, ’10. was on the Hill
Thursday. Mr. Smith has been engaged
for some time in home mission work at

The Hollow, Va.

ions Needed In Foreign Fields.

Dr. Chas. H. Pratt. a praduate of
Kings College, and later ot Princeton,
who was a missionary in Korea for tour
sears, spoke at. the regular Sunday even-
ing “Y" service. He was forced to re-
turn to this country on account of ill
health, and so, tor the past two and a
half years he has been connected with
the Foreign Board of the Laymen’s
Missionary Movement. with headquar-
ters at Nashville, He has spent most ot
the time making just such strong pleas
as he made here in behalf of the toreizn
tield,

Dr. Pratt spoke of the main issue in
our Christian religion as the idea of
servier. | “Fhe biggest Christian is the
one who does the most in serving his tel-
low men. Elis purpose here, as he ev
pressed it, was to do fis ‘bit’ ins urging
the men with their steength of bedv and
ot mind. as they chyose their calling. in
life, to nok broadly and) choose that
work that well best serve humanity. He
gave us the advice that he had received
from. the lips of cur President, whe was
then President of Princeton, which was.
“Po get a good start in the: days of
preparation for life's dutiys. as does the
broad jumper -hefore taking the leap.”
Dr. Pratt pave some very striking illus
trations of service, and stressed the point
of the great opportunities for service
that the war had brought.

During the remaining minutes of the
talk, Dr, Prate made the challenge to
all who po out trom Davidson, ta ask
himself the question: “An bE choosing
to go where | am most needed far serv-
ice?” He showed ‘the erving need for
anissionaries in foreign fields, which wall
amount to 20,000 within the next few
tears. Men and women are needed not
only for religious tgaching but to prac-
tice in any protession known in Ameriea.
‘Phe call is strongest for men frome the
inedical profession, which is so crowded
in our country at present. and for men
with special training along agricultural
lines to teach the art of scientific farm-
ing among thease people of the Mast.

MOVIES BACK, AGAIN,

Owing to the necessity of securing a
fireproof booth, there have been ne
movies at the “Y" for the — past two
weeks. ‘The booth has now arrived and
heen set up just to the right of the stairs
in the balcony of the new gym. This i
a great improvement over the first ar-
rangement, as the light from) the ma-
chine will not be seen by the audience.
Also, the pictures will be shown against
the back wall of the gym, thus removing
the screen from over the — basketball
court.

A person only knows how to appreci-

*late a good thing when he has to do with-

out it for a while, and we are mighty
glad to have the movies back.

Mr. C. F. Allen, ex-'19, of Columbia
Theological Seminary, spent Sunday at
Davidson. ;

.

No. 18

Mercer University To

Be Debated In April

Atter nearly two months of  corre-
spondence with practically all the lead-
ing Southern colleges. the matter of an
intercollegiate debate .has taken detinite
form and ualess some unexpected tactor
arises, Davidson will meet Mercer Uni-
versity, at) Macon. Cau. ina tarensic
contest some time in: Aprit. Although
the debate has not been definitely settled,
vet it has approached the stage that it
can be called a certainty,

Ine view of the coming debate the De
hating Couneil at a recent: meeting set
March tg as the date. tor the society
preliminaries, at which tine three men
from cach society will be selected for
the final preliminary on Mareh 28. The
subject for the senii-finals ts, “Resdlved,
That the proposed) League of Nations
should be adopted by the United States.”
kvery rember ot the societies is eligible
‘and itis hoped that a large number will
enter the preliminaries. “Phe subject for
the finals well be announced next week.
Whe intercollegiate team will consist of
twa debaters and an alternate, so if in
terested get busy and see that you are
ane ot these three,

Date of Volunteer
Conference Is Near

Will Davidson Again Send the Largest

Delegation.

_—

“Ta wiew of intormation about con-
Hicet with Junior Speaking at Davidson,
Student: Volunteer Canterece has been
changed to March 14-16. “This is done
in the expectation af a record breaking
Davidson delegation. and | know that
vou won't disappoint as.”

: TT. D. Rondthaler. Pres,

The above telegram was received from
the president of the State Conion a few
days ago. It shows that the union is ex-
pectingy great things ot Davidson. “Phey
know that “Davidson has in past years
held the record for the size of, delega-
tion sent to the Student. Volunteer Con-
ferences, and they, do not expect us to
tall down this year.

‘The committee ‘in charge of the con- --
ference has arranged a-very interesting
program, Mr. Ostrom, a returned mis-
sionary from Japan. will be one of the
principal speakers. Mir. Ostrom is closely
connected with our eburch and he is a
very interesting speaker, During — the
past two years he has been traveling in
the South for foreign missions, and has
heen very successful) in’ stirring up) in-
terest in this great work.

The conference will he held at Guil-
ford College, which is just six miles
fram Greensboro, “Vhose who went to
Elon Jast year and to Greensboro the
year before will remember how royally
they were entertained. Besides this each
one came back with a new vision, be-
cause they were thrown with those who
could give information first hand and
knew of the actual conditions in the for-
cign field.

The conference is one week off,
March 14,15. 16. If you are interested

(Continued on page 6)
