Ihe DAVIDSONIAN, February 26, 1919
Sees nnn

Literary Societies Hi
. ard Around Town |
Honor Washington eard Aroun
Colonel and Mrs. Meuller has secur-

Speech In His Honor Given In Both/ed Mrs. Wooten’s home and expect to
Societies. begin keeping house soon, At. present
they are boarding at Mrs. Henderson's.

Mrs. Wovten has just returned from
a delightful touring trip to New York
with Mrs. Wood Johnson. She will
probably make her home with — her
daughter in Mooresville for the spring

SCHEDULE FOR MARCH 1.

Philanthropic.
Affirmative : Negative:

Alexander, C. B. Howland | oF feast
Humphries McLeod [" ""
“(Ceancdhive Dor pwlee
MeGeach) » Parks Mrs. Wilson MiteConnell and her

Declamations:

Robinson, C. W. son, Courtney, are waiting to mect Dr.

Story, S. MacConnell in’ New York at any day.

Robinson, J- Ny . Phomas | Phey are now visiting at her father’s.
SVooten cvin Baltimore. Upon Dr. MacConnell’s

. _Eumenecan, arrival they plan to make a trip te San
Aflirmative : Negative: Francisco, where he will Have a little

Price, L. K.
Scott, W. M.

MeGurkin
Meliwaine. R. RB.
Ormond, A; C. Ratchford, 5.
Patterson, TV. H. Richards, J. Md.
Declamations :
Sanders, C. B. Summers, A. C.
Oration: “Turner, E. A.

rest before again taking up his work at
Davidson.

Dr. Moore MacConneil and his
youngest son spent the week-end at the
old homeplace, MeConnellsville, 5. C.

Dr. ‘TV. W. Lingle and his wile were
Philanthropic. expected if the Hill all last week.

‘The meeting of the Phi Society last
Saturday night proved to be the most
interesting held this term. “Vhe debate.
the subject of which was: “Resolved.
‘That all discharged soldiers and sailors
should be given six: months’ extra pay,”
was full of pep and showed evidences
of thoughtful preparation. The afirm-
ative was represented by McCain, Ban-
ner and Shaw. “Vhe negative by Howie,
Stane and Roberts. “The decision com-
inittee decided ‘two and one in favor of
the affirmative.

The question for extemporancous de-
bate was: “Resolved, That the U. S.
troops should be withdrawn from Rus-
sia.” This debate was lively and full of
interest thruout.  Foscue and W. F.
Hall successfully represented the affirm.
ative, while VT. EH. Wilson and Calhoun
defended the negative. Declamations
were given by Foster. H. R. Poole.
Lowrance and I), G. Cashion.

Following the reguar program. the
society proceeded into the election of
officers for the spring term. “he fol-
lewing were clected: W. M. Currie.
President; D. W. Roberts, Vice-Pres-
ident; A. LL. ‘Currie, Secretary; E.G.
Lilly, First Critic: D. ML. Chalmers, in-camp eight months or a year yet in
Second Critic; C. G. Long, First Super-| order that it may be properly treated,
vitor; M. A. Tremain, Second Super- , ;
visor,

Mrs. W. R. Grey entertained Mrs.
Z. V. ‘Vurlington, of Mooresville, last
Vhursdiy.

Miss Dorothy Finlayson, now at
Winthrop College, was at home for the
week-end with her uncle, Ma BLL.
Jackson.

Miss Eloise Martin was treated for
tonsilitis at the Presbyterian Ulospital,
Charlotte, last week, necessitaing her ab-
sence from Queens College. She is now
at home tor a week's rest and recuper
alan,

Malcome Rumple is expected home
from oversens with the First: Battalion
‘French Artillery: [tis rumored that
the S$. S. Virginia, on which he was to
return, has landed safely at) Newport
News.

Conrad Shelton returned to Camp
Lee, Friday, after almost a week's visit
with his parents and friends here. His
shoulder was very. seriously shattered
during the fighting in Argonne Forest.
It is feared that he will have to remain

Captain Slaymaker, who addressed
the Y. M. C. A. Sunday evening, has
been the guest of Dr. and Mrs. Ar-
‘buckle. His home is in Alexandria, Va.
He is now Secretary of the Laymen’s
Missionary Movement.

FEumenean,

Although the declamations and the
oration in the Eumenean Society last
Saturday night were interesting, the de-
hate as a whole lacked preparation and
“pep.” This was largely due to the fact
that there had been little study and
thought on the question... The subject
for debate was: “Resolved, That all
discharged soldiers and sailors should
receive six months extra pay.” The
affirmative side was upheld by D. M.
Gaston, T. M. Lowry, R. A. McPheet-
ers and J. A. Long. The negative side
was defended by F. E. Manning, T. 5.
Martin, S. F. Montgomery and P. H.
McAlpine. The affirmative side ad4
vanced the following arguments: First.
that the resolution in question is just.
because it is practical and economical ;
second, that it is patriotic. J. W. Long’s
debate was especially noticeable on ac-
count of his jokes and the manner of
impressing his points on the audience by
reiteration. The negative side opposed
the plan for the following reasons:
First. because the resolution is not the
best plan. for (1) it induces loafing. (2)

Miss Essie Jetton, one of the most
popular graded school teachers, is vei
ill with pneumonia at her home near
town, Mrs. Miles is teaching -her ciass
until a substitute can be found.

‘The Ladies’ Missionary Society ab-
served last week as a.week of prayer for
missions, schools and colleges, Our
own college received special attention,
as the whole student body are praying
for the success of the evangelistic cam-

there is no other country which has done
this:

The first declamation was “Rowland’s
Appeal to President Wilson.” by Ma-
rion McGill. Then J. C. B. McLaugh-
lin gave “Death of LaFayette.” Prob-
ably the best feature of the evening was
an oration by W. B. Sullivan, on “Our
National Hero—Washington.” ‘This
it will not solve the problem, (3) the}oration was particularly appropriate, as
farm plan is best: second, there are oth-|it was delivered on Washington's birth-
er better uses for the money; and: third, | day.

| paign.
yAlrs. Elamilton and = Miss | Margaret
Douglas. Miss Douglas is on turlough
from her educational mission work in
Brazil, which was the subject of her
cathusiastic lecture.

Mr. and Mrs. Cranford were sud-
denly called away to Albemarle by the
sudden death ot their grandchild.

Miss Price and Miss Wood left: Fri-
day for a week's visit with their rela-
tive, Mrs. Pennington, of Statesville.

The old campus was cheered by the
short visit of Misses Bessie Durham,
Catherine Gilnier and Rogers Gibbon,
from Charlotte last: Friday atternoon.

Miss Gordon Baskerville is visiting
in Barun Springs,

Miss Winifred Potts. of Queens,
spent the. week-end with her mother,
Mrs. f.. Ports. ;

’

Dr. Harold D. Claybery, accompanied
a kedaking group to the famous bee
Rock Sunday afternoon,

Friends of Miss Katharine Worth, of
Converse College. will be proud to learn
of the distinction shown her by the pub-
lication of one of her poems on the first
page ot a volume of best poems In col
lege students in America. Another of
Miss Worth’s poems recetved like dis-
tinction last vear,

CAMPUS DOPE.

Many boys have new raincoats which
they have purchased for use at the contr
ing Junior Speaking, It is taken for
vranted that we will have a flood as
usual,

Several of the Juniors have broken
all precedents and intend to speak on
subjects which they know a Jitthe about.
However, the majority of the class of
“20 are té speak on things which are en
tirely unfamiliar, (to themselves and
everyone else). Seers and prophets are
numerous. “Vhe young orators are hav-
(‘ng various troubles. One Junior re
anarked that it looked as if a certain
prominent man would “die-on him” and
that his speech would have to be -re
written. Red Smith speaks on “From
fsolation ca Leadership.” Tt not
known whether he is referring to hin
self or nat, Cathey touches a hopefal
note when he tells how he endured Da-
vidson for twenty years. Cheer up,
Fresh, Frank Key, who has chosen
“Miaterialisn ws. Spiritualisay” is going
around trying to find out what Spiritual-
ism is. Spence announces that he will
change his subject, but says he docs not

Is

The leaders were Mrs. Martin.} know what he will change to.

‘Leven as. inipressing,

3

Don't
pass judgment till you hear the speeches.
Vhey may not be as bad as is expected.

MINISTERIAL BAND
PLANS ACTIVE WORK

The Ministerial Band held vits regu-
lar meeting last Friday evening at 6:45.
The meeting was carried on ina rather
informal but interesting way. A force-
tul talk was made by the president, urg-
ing all the members to begin real, active
work in helping to make the revival one
ot the most successful ever held on the
campus. Following’ this appeal, several
others volunteering, gave short: speeches
The spirit of the
members showed that they were ‘taking
keen interest in the work they expected
to do in this campaign Dr. Myers is to
conduct,

Though the attendance was not as
go das might have been expected, it was
pechaps due ta forgettulness as to the
tine on the part of those absent. After
this, hawever, the bell will ring at. the
proper time to remind them, and a bet-
ter attendance is hoped for,

GOLF CLA B HAS
ELECPED OFFICERS

On Monday, February 7, the Golf
club held a meeting for the purpose of
electing, oficers,  “Vhe following were
chosen: President. De. HL Be Arbuckle;
Vice-President, Prof. A. Currie; Seere-
tary, HE White: ‘Treasurer, Prof. W.
W. Wood. ‘Phe tournament commit-
tee to be appointed by the president is
composed af Prof. We We Wood, EI.
White, BB. Breitenhirt..

After the election of officers, methods
of stimulating. interest in the gaune this
spring were discussed, A tournament
for the spring was decided on, also the
rate of membership was reduced — for
those entering: the rest of the term,

DON’T FORGET
to have that suit
DRY CLEANED
by

The Ben-Vonde Co.

The South's Largest Exclusive

DYERS & CLEANERS

18, 20 and 22 W. Fifth Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

FE. N. BOOKER, Axgt.

THINK IT OVER BOYS

you still have time to get one of those ‘‘nifty, catch-your-eye’’
suits, tailored to fit absolutely by the

before

Storrs-Schaefer

Company
speaking.

Our Samples are now on Display at

NO. 13 CHAMBERS

Satisfaction or No Deal

GILBERT & McARN

REPRESENTATIVES
