THE DAVIDSONIAN, November 13, 1919

| SECOND NUMBER OF MAG-
AZINE HAS GONE TO PRESS.

LITERARY NEWS

eeeoevecen ee © © © & o|

The December issue of the Magazine
will go to press this week. The editors

R. O. T. C. UNDERGOES REOR-
GANIZATION — FIVE COM-

believe it will be better than the first |formity with recent orders, was effected ,

PANIES MERGED INTO FOUR. |
' BLACK, J. M., ’20.

Reorganization of the battalion in con- |

A. E. F. Students

A Little Inside Light On Our

R. O. T. C. BATTALION

(Continued from Page 1)

_ 1one did. The entire command kept step

and their eyes straight to the front ag
never before. The lines, while in

. Eu, Society, Nov. 15. * |. : Tne All-Scuthern foo.ball star of Da- area
: Program of Debate. e jissue but to, esp up a cond standard !last Tuesday morning. vidson's 1916 team, leaving the gridiron platoon ere vere ern the fe
“© Affirmative: Negative: ° and. crse ate | h ‘Two de artments. to Major: Hall, W. M. where he had become a famous warrior, and on the whole the parade was more
* Booth, W. R. . Craig * which fewer men contribute and they are First Lt. Bn. Adjt: Boulware, J. R. enlisted in the American Army at Fort than good.
* Boyd Cunningham : among the most important. Everyone} Bn. Sup. Officer: Hall, W. F. Oelethorpe, Ga, in Moy, ot? Afr Soon after ieaving the Square the col-
* Burgess Punlap @ should try to write an article. There| Captains: Sample, J. H., Co. A; a orneaiveioned os secon - lieutenant on (umn of squads formation was again
* Boulware iimer | were two freshmen contributors in the |Shields, B. E., Co. B; Taylor, J. P., Co. 5 . h adopted and held until the intersection -
° Oration: Brown. _ @ last issuc. Very seldom does one find |C; Rogers, R. L., Co. D. August 15 ‘hin wile Cat) io. the of Hill and Tryon streets was reached.
° McCaskill Declamations: McGukin * _this general interest at the beginning of | First Lieutenants: en 1, H.; fien in training at Camp Jackson, S C A Tryon and Vance, the battalion was
cUaski the year but it is splendid. Don’t let a}McCaskill, J. C.; Davis, A. J.; Rome- , *.,. jhalted and permission was given to a
° . : § few men do all the work. Write for the | felt, B. W. ,On August 5, Jack sailed from New | number to return to town and cits. From
° Fresh Eu. Society, Now. 17 5 Magazine! 11 Second Lieutenants: Doubles, M. R.; York and landed at Ps iverpool the mn this point the march was made at rout
° eet Negative: *!, On the back reading toom table in the | Phillips, J. W.; McFadden, J. M.3 0 France landing at Brest on the 18th 2 t© Wearn field.
© _ Affirmative: eae: ke |‘ibrary will be placed several of the ex-|Roddey, W. L. of August He trained in the F. A Just before the arena for the after-
* Reid Sorrell e changes already received. All frequen-) First Sergeants: Hunter, C.; Rich- Fi cohol Valdabon, Dobs, and was 700% struggle was reached the “Queens
* Richards va ey aa @ ters of the library should read these and ards, J. G.; Mitchell, A. M.; Brieten- 8 frst li '  Octob: Special” passed the battalion and some
* Roberts, G. B. Smith, H. H. *: h ; instituti ress- lhirt. B. B promoted to first lieutenant on October say that a number of the boys were heard
* Roddey Sydenstricker * see how sister institutions are progress oi i . g ts: § T. Hut! He completed the course the 1st of to shout. But no on blax ed th
° Declama‘ions. « " ' Finke A Cs Oucry P Pellicon RT. November. Black was stationed at St. pecially and the para de move don em es
* Toney eee Filiot : CHAMBERS ON THE BOOM! Patcation ‘Sergeant Major: Foscue. Bliu, we ha once, antl May 15, The Band. ,
see | MUCH NEEDED IMPROVE-/A. L. aN aay ‘ And the band? Well, the band was

“The Navy and the Nation” a MENTS BEING INSTALLED.

Source of Valuable

Information

The noise uf hammers and saws con-
l-inues t) echo through the long halls of
Chambers. Judging from all signs, north
Interesting Speeches On This Vital wing Ci:ambers is being supplemented by

Topic by Our Leading Men extensive improvements. Such is the
case.

A boiler room has been built and
thoroughly equipped on the first floor
. which will furnisn hot water for the two
ef addresses by Josephus Daniels called po¢h and shower rooms being built on the

Turning as'de from the realms of fic-
tien, the reviewer chanced upon a book |

“The Navy and the Nation.” Speeches
are not always the most interesting read-
ing but these prove an exception.

- Jesephus Daniels is a North Carolin-
izn who has proved himself one of the
mest capable men in public service.

When he -first entered upon his position
cf Secretary of the Navy, many were the

sighting and critical remarks about him
én account of his stand for prohibition.

It was not leng until the late Admiral

Dewey declared him the most capable
man who had headed the navy in many

years and so people changed their at-

titude. ‘To him .we owe the present

standing of our navy and its recent :
growth. Progresetve, forceful, clean,

and intensly patriotric, we find him all

that we could desire the head cf out Na-
val forces to be.

“The Navy and the Nation” is not
the subject of a learned reasoner. It is
a beok for the everyday American. |
Ameng the selections are addresses de-
livered to college men at Yale, the Uni-
versity of Virginia. and several to the.
graduating classes at Annapolis. Those ,
interested in the progress of agrigulture
in the South would find many sugges-
tions in his speech to the American Cot- |
ton Manufacturers Association, and |
those interested in the great work of the—
doctor will fiad the requisites for better ;
and cleaner lives in his speech to the:
Clinical Congress of Surgeans of North '
America. These speeches mentioned are :
only a few ou: of a large collection. All
are on some practical and helpful sub-
ject, They are the spontaneous expres-~
sion of Secretary Daniels’ ideals and
chould cause every thoughtful man an
hour of useful study and pleasure.

Read one speech and you will read
the book from cover to cover.

LIBRARY NEWS.

Among the hocks recently added to the
Library are the awo following, of local
and timely interest:

“The Navy and the Nation,” by Dr.
Jesephus Daniels, and a translation of
“President Wilson” by Daniel Halery,
a Freshman, Others worth while are
“The Education of Henry Adams, al
Autobicgraphy,” which has been ranking
as a best seller for several months, Its
sco pages are full of interest to the
student of mental development; its pop-
ularity has been remarkable considering
its size and character. “The Recollec-
tions of a Russian Diplomat” is a jour-
nalists’ story of observation in Berlin

ether two floors. The architect evident-
lv believes in daylight as the solid walls
of north wing are being pierced and:
windows are being fitted.

The time is near at hand when those
rooming! in Chambers will cease enjoy-
ing the other dormitories, The college
has plans for several improvements but
none needed or appreciated more than
these new bath and shower rooms in

Color Sergeant: Gaston, J. M.

Sergeants: McGeachy, D. P.; Mc-
[hwaine, R. R.; Liston, R. IT. L.; Doug-
las, .D. P.; Brice, §. D.; Price, J. P.;

Cornelson, G. H.; Heizer, M. B.; La-_
Far, D. R.; Lowry, T. M.; Horton, L. |

T.; Bethea, P. O.; Drake, A. E.;
Wright, F. J.; McEwen, A. J.; Mc-
Ewen, A. J.; Dick, L. W.; Poteat, J.
P.; Price, J. K.; Toms, M. F.; Clyburn, ,
T. B.; Dunn, C. A.; Cellar, A. E.;
Clark, J. F.

Corporals: Boney, E. R.; McCorkle
W. W.; Wilkinson, L. L.; Story, S. D.;
Groves, J. W.; Cunningham, C. E.;
Aiken, R. C.; Brice, R. M.; Ratchford,
W. S.; Doggett, W. M.; Bailey, J. C.;
Summer, A. §.; Montgomery, L. F.;
Hamer, B. M.; Richards, J. M.; Or-
mand, A. C.; Carmichael, G. M./
Howie, S. E.; Fraleigh, A. E.; Tufts,
E. H.; Sanders, C. H.; Niceler, J. R.;

at Newport News, June 9, and was dis-
charged July 2, 1919.

CASSELL, F. M., '23.

The above named student of the
Freshman class enlisted at Ronaoke, Va.,
April 22, 1917, in the Coast Artillery,
and after training three months at Camp
Stewart and nine months at Fortress
Monroe he sailed from Newport News
en Ap:il 23, 1918, with the rank of cor-

present all the time and in very large
numbers. There were two commanding

.topics of conversation on Wearn field

Saturday afternoon: the gameness of the

‘Wildcate and the Davidson band, and if

the members of the band could have
heard the many complimentary things
said about them they would have done
all the better—if such a thing were pos-
sible.
Parade No. 2.
With the score 16 to o against their

poral in the 60th Regiment, C. A. C.,
landing at Bres: 14 days later. Four
months were spent in practice on six inch
G. P. F. rifle before being sent to the
front, where he saw action in St. Mihiel
and Meuse Argenne offensive, from
which place he was sent to a hospital.
Passing a few weeks at this point, they
then transferred him to the 66th F. A.
Brigade, which was sent into Germany

jteam, the Davidson rooters staged an
old-time snake dance on the field between
halves and gave the visitors a sample of
Presbyterian pep. After snaking the
gridiron the supporters of the darker
hues returned to their seats in the bleach-
ers, in close proximity to the delegation
from Queens which was supporting the
Davidson warriors with a zeal that made
the best backing ever given a Davidson

Chambers.

McKeithan, J. H.; Moore, W. W,;
Kiser, R. F.; Stevenson, R. J.; Gunn,
'W. E.; Patterson. T. H.; Murphy, S.;
. Martin, T. F.; Miller. F. E.; Cashion.

A. C. Wood, Ino. D. Wiley, J. P. E. G.; Davidson, G. Y.; Hodgkin, W.
Taylor, W. E. Gunn and Gordon Mc- ©; Roberts, W. W.: Gilmer, J. M.:
Keldin were confined to the infirmary | Wool, J. C.; Miller, P. D.; McFach-

during the past week. ern, J. C.; Boyd, B. H.; Bitzer, R.;

CAMPUSISMS.

e

as a unit of the Army of Occupation
after the signing of the armistice. Cas-
sel spent six months in the enemy's coun-
try, being located near Coblenz, but
then receiving orders to return him, his
outfit sailed from St. Nazzaire, June 2,
1919, landing in New York after a voy-
age of 13 days. Camp Meade, Md.,
was the next stopping point, where he

linstitution.

team, bow to the support of the sister
Before the eyes of such a
galaxy of the fairest of the fair it is
little wonder that the fight put up by the
brother eleven was magnificent. And as
one of the Queens expressed it, “David-
son is the best loser I ever saw.”
Night.
After the game the battalion returned

Moore, W. C:; McGukin, E. B.; Rob-, was discharged.

Ameng thore remaining on the cam- inson, C. W.; Brown, C. J.; McCreary,
pus Saturday evening were B. C. Pat- J, A.; Jones, J. A.; Lowrance, D. W.

rick, C. N. Morrison
Wiley.

and Jno. D.

* ° *

18. and Tehn McAlister
en the hill Sunday.
¢

* e

“Dickie” Bullock, '13, came up from
Charlotte and spent Saturday night.
* . P

“Maude” Finley, '18, passed through Has Been Professor of Modern Lan- |
, guages Since 1912—Saw Service
{ in

Saturday on his way to the game.
*

* *
T, P. Robinson, ex-’22, was on the
hill Thursday.
2 *
Mr. Hines, father of E. M. Hines.

'22, has been a recent visitor to his son.
* *

Mrs, G. A. Banner was here visiting
er son, J. P. Banner, on fast Friday.
* * * :

Dr. and Mrs. P. F. Price have been
very welcome visitors on the hill for
several days.

Dr. Price has given several most in-
_teresting lectures on his work in China. |
;while here.

* * e

A. T. Cashion, '17, spent the weck- ;

end on the hill.

SUGAR DON'TS.

The present shortage of sugar should
have its lessons for us all. A little
;thoughtfulness on our part and the ob-
servance of a few “Sugar Don'ts” will

vo a long way to make the sugar last a
-thaving been under fire longer than any

longer time.

1 |

!

' A.B. degree in 1893.

from Princeton Theological Seminary.

when he began his work as Professor of

Lieutenant Colonel Mueller states ,

emphatically that any reductions in rank |
‘ ; . jwere made without any prejudice to the!
Tohnny Laird, "17; Charlie Angle, ‘parties concerned, but are necessitated

» €X- 19, were iby the reorganization,

IDr. T. W. Lingle an Excellent

Teacher and Friend.

the Y. M. C. A. Overseas

Thomas Wilson Lingle came to Da- |
vidson in 1889, graduating with the

M.A, degree the next year. He has done
graduate work at Cornell and at Strass-
burg; received the Ph.D. degree from
Leipsic; studied at Union Theological
Seminary in Richmond; and graduated

He then became Professor of Philosophy
and History in Sao Paolo University; in
Brazil. He ieft Brazil to come back to
the United States and became President
and Professor of Philosophy and History
at Blackburn College.

In 1909 Dr. Lingle came to David-
son, acting as Field Secretary until 1912,

Modern Languages.
With the outbreak of war in 1917,

He received the |

,to the Mecklenburg. where a change into
—_—_ \cits was made by the majority of the
The following were a few of the Da- ‘students. On the way in from the field
vidson alumni who witnessed the game :some of the Davidson contingent, in some
between Davidson and N. C. State in unexplainable manner, got on the rear
Charlotte Saturday: ‘of a street car which was closely fol-
Dr. Oren Moore, L. H. Wilkinson, lowed by the “Queens Special.” None
Dr. McKay, R. M. Miller, G. M. of the local delegation objected, how-
King, 118; A. G. Finley, '18; J. P. ever.
Laird, °17; Pressley Robinson, ex-’22;| A reception was held at the Manufac-
Dunlap Roddey, 17; E. P. Nesbit, "17; ;turers Club and a number of Davidson
J. D. Watt, 19; M. R. Watt, ex-’20;'men spent the evening there. Others
J. W. Bullock, '17; S. H. Bennett, 16; made their way to the various show
F. A. Cochrane, ex-’22; C. §. Mattison, ,jhouses of the city and many called on
17; G. S, Crouch, 18; W. S$. Overton, ifriends in the metropolis and suburbs.
18; A. M. Inman, ‘19; J. C. Safford, ;At 11 p. m. the special dummy pulled
ex-'20; M. R. Adams, '16; W. B. Gar- |out and the day was officially pronounced
rison, W. T. Rankin, ex-’20; T. H. [as over.
Belk, ex-'20; C. W. Angle, 18; J. W.
McAllister, ex-’19; J. H. Payne, '14;} Miss Adelaide Harris, of Concord, N.
J. M. Carson, 't6; P. N. Pharr, C. W./C., passed through Saturday, on her way
Foreman, ex-'19; J. S. Miller, ex-'22;.to Charlotte.
A. T. Cashion, '17; R. D. Hall, ’19; °
H. P. Worth, ex-’20; D. E. Hipp, ex-| George King, ‘18. and George
19; J. G. Richards, Jr.. ‘11; R. C. Crouch, '18, were visitors on the hill
Garth, ’19; H. H. Massey, ex-'21; S. J. last week-end.
Fetzer, ex-’20; Ed. Taylor, P, W. Shaw, | ° Ad Ad
ex-'22, R. D. Hall, ’19, was here for Sunday.

+ *

aes

ar | |

Dr. Lingle joined the Army Y. M. C.
'A. soon after the end of the college term
and went to France. ‘ It has been said
that he has the peculiar distinction of

Don’t take any more sugar than you other living American, and he is the

need. ‘

‘only North Carolinian who ever gave a

Don’t put but one spoonful in your ‘lecture to the troops of a foreign country

and Petrograd. which exposes the weak- ‘coffee until you have dissolved that and sin their own language.

ness of autocratic government. Maeter-
linck’'s, “Bethrothal” is a sequel to “The
Blue Bird,” a little drama which came
out a few years ago.

As the Library committee has not yet
met the annual order of books has not

| found it insufficient.
' Don’t leave any sugar to settle in the
‘bottom of your cup or saucer.
1 Don’t put sugar on your bread when
you can use syrup.

Don’t forget that sugar is scarce and

From a very broad knowledge of the
jwarld, Dr. Lingle brings to his duties as

1a Davidson professor a fund of knowl-.

edge gathered from a galaxy of the
| world's educational centers, and an ex-
 Perience as broad as the diverse parts.of

been made, but the order will be placed |that more people than you must have | the world in which it was obtained. His

in a few days so that the new books will
be in about the first of January.

R. L. Thomason, 1900, is principal of
' the school at Peachland, N. C.

_their share.

scholarly and efficient class room instruc-

Don’t forget a few eugar don’ts when |tion, and his cosmopolitan urbanity on

we do get sugar.

all occasions make him nor only an ex-

Don’t forget that “wilful waste makes {cellent professor, but a very agreeable

woeful want.”

fritnd to all his students.

DC Pipes are certainly a man’s smoke. They bring
the smokejoy which every man seeks. It’s in the

W

mellow French briar, which is guaranteed against cracking or
burning through, in quality of bit and band, and in workman-

ship and design. Select several shapes today at any good
dealer’s, Smoke a cool one every time,

We. DEMUTH & CO., NEW YORK

WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS-OF FINE PIPES

