Ihe DAVIDSONIAN, May 7. 1919 3

LITERARY SOCIETIES

Officers Elected by
Philanthropic Society

Declamation Feature Last Meeting of
Eu. Society.

e -

For the Phi. Society, Saturday night.
the election of officers for next fall took
the place of the regular program.

The following officers were elected:

President—D. M. Chaliners,

Vice-President—T. H. Wilson.

Secretary—J. H. McKeithan,

First Critic—L. G. Calhoun.

Second Critic—C. N. Morrison.

First Supervisor—D. P. MeGeachy.

Second Supervisor—G. N.. Neel.

‘Treasurer—A,. L. Currie.

Valedictorian—W. M. Currie.

Respondent—L. G. Calhoun.

For the Debating Council—C. G.
Long.

Janitor—W. K. McCain.

The installation of these officers will
take place next Saturday night.

Declamations were the most interest-
ing feature of the last meeting of the
Eumeanean Society. C. FE. Cunning-
ham delivered Cicero's Denunciation of
Verres in a very spirited manner. And.
in spite. of the fact that his memory
seemed a little shaky at times, it was a
very creditable performance. “TF. F.
Martin thundered = forth “William
Tell with telling gestures. He had
blood in his eye, and sprang at Gessler
with all the vehemenc@ that could be
desired. “The ‘Training Camp of the
Future.” by H. W. Grady, was de-
claimed by J. M. Gilmer. Gilmer’s
memory was excellent but his delivery
reminded one of the stereotyped “sweet
girl graduate” ‘of our standard (.?)
fiction, His eves were cast demurely
down and his lips. were seen to move
for some minutes after which he took
his seat.

The debate as a whole was not equal
to the declamations, “The subject was,
“Resolved, Vhat the Philippines should
be given their independence within the
next five years.” “The first speaker on
the affirmative was G. M. Robson.
About six minutes after he started, the
vice-president succeeded in figuring ‘out
the intricate mechanism of the — bell
(which had been lost for some weeks)
and, holding it high, struck it with vi-
cious. glee! J. M. Richards, the next
speaker for the affirmative, was ap-
plauded as a second Demosthenes espe-
cially since he seemed to have a pebble
er some such object in his mouth. “The
next speaker for the afhrmative was J.
P. Price, who gave evidence of consid-
erable preparation. ‘The first speaker
on the negative was R. J. Knight.
whose sheaf of motes seemed to indi-
cate hours of preparation. However,
his delivery seemed to indicate other-
wise. The second speaker on the neg-
ative was J. W. Phillips. This gentle-
man gives promise of becoming a fa-
mous Fourth of July spell-binder, and
his style of oratory tends to the bom-
bastic. A. C. Ormond was the last
speaker for the negative. His prevail-
ing position was standing on his right
foot with his left hand concealed in his
pocket. His speech indicated consider-
able preparation. In general. the de-
bate was a squabble about authority.
Both sides quoted the same authorities
in exceedingly inconsistent statements.
If the gentlemen on debate are to be
trusted, Senor Quezon and others with
him are most irresponsible, vacillating.
and inconsistent characters.

7:10 is now one of the most prpular
hours in Davidson.

Davidson Heroes
To Be Remembered

Fitting Memorial Service to be Held

Commencement.

A memorial service in memory of the
nineteen’ Davidson College men, who
are known to have given their lives for
their country in the recent world war,
will be held at 5 p. m., May. 27. This
will be one of the important features of
commencement.

Prof. Currie, who has charge of this.
has secured Rev. W.  ‘Talliaferro
Thompson, 1906, of Knoxville, Tenn.,
to deliver the memorial address, Mrs.
H. N. Pharr, of Charlotte, will add a
great deal to the program by rendering
one or more vocal numbers. The ree-
ords of these men will be read for each
one has had a wonderful military rec-
ord, especially as the majority of them
were young men and just starting out
in life. We feel the deepest gratitude
for what they have done for us.

BRING SOMEONE BACK.

The Greater Davidson Club was or-
ganized for the enlargement of David
sun College in every phase of college de-
velopment. “Vhe members of this club
have signified their willingness to do all
within their power to make the club a
great success and to cause its name to
inean. everything it proposes,

Perhaps the ‘firskKuand most beneficial
work the student body can do for the
club is to solicit: students for the com-
ing year. In order to accomplish any-
thing successfully, there must first. be
interest—not merely passive interest: but
vital interest. No one will question the
interest of the students ot Davidson
College—for it has been a singular fact
that the one thing that makes the col-
lege what it is—is the interest and co-
opcration of the students at large. But
with the ofganization of the Greater
Davidson Club, it is hoped that every
student will show even greater interest
than ever before shown to make the
year 1919-1920 the greatest year in the
history of the college; greater in’ num-
ber of students, greater in athletics and
greater in fellowship.

We are at the close of the year—
within a few days this student bedy will
he. scattered throughout the South and
Southeast. As you go to your homes
and work, cultivate the habit of speak-
ing a word for Davidson. At every
opportunity, begin conversation with a
boy who you think would make a pood
Davidson student. Find out his plans
—tell him of the advantages of David-
son and persuade him to make David-
son his choice. Let every student
among the lower classes. adopt the fol-
lowing as his motto: (1) to come back
himself; (2) to influence at least one
fellow to come. With this resolution—
our goal of yoo will easily be reached
and more, C. J. M.

TRACK TEAM OUTCLASSED IN
SOUTHERN MEET.

Our track team had the lamentable
misfortune of not winning a point in
the Southern meet. No particulars have
been learned in regard to the meet. In
the preliminaries Murrey was disquali-
fied in the broad-jump and in the four-
forty and Brice, Finley and Walton in
the four-forty. Brice and Murrey quali-
fied for the two-twenty-yard dash and
Murrey for the 100-yard dash, but due
to some misunderstanding, Murrey was
not permitted to run the latter event.
All long distance runners ran in the
meet. It is interesting to note that a
few of the records in the Davidson-
South Carolina mect were better than
those of the Southern meet.

The Camp Greene Transit Company will operate a 22-Pass-

enger Auto Bus between Mooresville and Charlotte commencing

quesday, April 1, 1919, on the following schedule, daily except
unday:

Leave Mooresville,

Goodman{Drug Store 1:40 P. M. 6:00 P. M.
“ Davideon,
White Drug Co. 2:00 6:20
“ Huntersville,
Post Office 2:30 6:50
Arrive Charlotte,
Fate-Brown Co.'s Store 3:30 7:50
Leave Charlotte, :
Tate-Brown Cu.'s Store 4:00 P. M. 11:00 P. M.
“ Huntersville, :
‘ Post Office 5:00 12:00
“ Davidson,
White Drug Co. 5:30 12:30 A: M
Asrive Mooresville,
Goodman Dsug Store 5:50 12:50

This gives the People along this route the opportunity to at- t
tend the shows and other amusements in Charlotte and return
home that night. Your patronage solicited.

Respectfully,

Camp Greene Transit Co.
200 Com, Bank Bldg., Charlotte. N. C. |

Smart, Stylish Suits |
FOR YOUNG MEN

We have received by Express

100 SUITS

from the foremost makers of Men’s Fine Clothes.

The Latest Styles and Fabrics

We hope to have the opportunity of showing you
—-—-EWVERYTHING IN MIEN’S WEAR-----

ED. MELLON CO.

Prescriptions Compounded
by Registered Pharmacists

We carry a complete line of up-to-date
Stationery. . . Drink at our Sanitary
Fountain. . . We want to serve you.

WHITE DRUG CO.

he Rexall Store

fence

CAMP SAPPHIRE

Ideal Location, Complete Equipement, Strong Personnel of
the Camp Council.

MILITARY ATHLETIC EDUCATIONAL

On Deer Park Lake, at the foot of Elk Lodge Mountain
BREVARD, N, C.

For Boys Between the Ages of Nine and Eighteen

Season of 1919, July 2 to August 27
For further information, address,

W. MeK. Fetzer, Director

DAVIDSON - »« +. +  « NORTH CAROLINA

