THE DAVIDSONIAN, October 15, 1919

DAVIDSONIAN

Founded by Clase of ‘tS
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

The

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mall Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
Five Cents per copy; $1.25 the Collegiate Year.

NN
Editor-in-Chief

ae CARSELL. “Managing Editor
J. BR. BOULWARGD, Ir.cccccssecceseccecnsensracereesccen senses serene sees Assignment Editor
TB. SCHENCK «seereeeeeeeeeeee cette ete casenstecessseceasees Sporting Edltors
8. H. ASKEW......

J. CO. McCASKILL......ccccccccrcnsccercerencc cst rees sees seensseaeesseseeser Alumni Editor
D. M. CHALMERS... ..ccescccacccccccseccesscccnecscatoneees .. Exchange Editor |
T. H. SPENCD... .. Campus Editor
L. G. CALHOUN.. M. & A. Baltor
A. Li. WILSON......cccsccccccccccnsccscccee swe ses sees ee saeseesaceessareenes jocial or
J. ML, GASTON, Ir... ccc ccc ccc c cece ccc en ence eset seen es senses es eeeresese es Literary Editor
Fi. Ro McILWAINE. ss sscsccccscccccctscccceccetecsevesseneeseeneses Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB

BD. N. BOOKDR W. P. CUMMING D. L. MAHOOD
R. T. L. LISTON J. M. DUNLAP A. M. MITCHELL
R. R. CRAIG R. BITZBR B. B, BREITENHIRT
c. E. CUNNINGHAM M. W. DOGGETT M. R. DOUBLES
J. M. GILMER T. F. MARTIN WwW. W. MOORE
J. P. PRICE J. W. PHILLIPS J. M. RICHARDS

~ c. Bb. H. TUFTS J. Cc. WOOL

Cc. J, MATTHDWS

T. H. WILSON

L. Li. MCALISTER. ...cccesscccscccecectsearopesccreasressouseeseseres
c. H. G

A. M. MITCHBLL..... cc cacceecencecereresesoes

‘without washing our faces, and then
‘have to dress after we get there.

EDITORIAL

(Due to the continued absence of D. W. Roberts, due to illness, Dwight
Chalniers has been elected Editor-in-Chief Pro Tem.)

DIMMERS.

No, S. M. B. does not mean Some More Bull.

lf the team could have only heard us singing “OQ, Davidson,” Friday,
night, it would have been “Goodbye Generals.”

Why not abolish Chapel and install a Central Bulletin Board?

At the present rate we will soon be paying more for laundry than for liv-
ing.

The purpose of a college is to train men for leadership. Are you in line?
¢ ke

WE RESOLVE:

. >
To visit every professor's home at least. once this year. Do you?

OUR WEEKLY FALSEHOOD¢ .
Not a single word of profanity passed between Georgia and Watts last

week,

DID YOU EVER NOTICE IT?

A college boy only looks serious in two situations, when he is reading the
funny paper and when he is parting his hair.

LEAVES OF COTTON.

OME MEN are born cotton pickers, some acquire cotton picking and others
have cotton picking thrust upon them.

If cotton picking was a test of brains quite a few of us would be in an
institution, not of learning.

The test of the cotton patch showed us that some fellows put self above
service and personal comfort above class pride. ‘

Among other lessons from the cotton field most of us learned shat cotton
picking wasn’t our calling.

A NEW REWARD.

Better to have picked and panted than to have shirked and sorrowed.
HE announcement that the Blue Pencil Chapter of Sigma Upsilon will
award a gold medal to the best contributor to the “Magazine” is
greeted with pleasure. Such an inducement should spur us on to
greater efforts and better work in this department. It is understood that both
quantity and quality of work will be considered in selecting the winner. The
victories of peace are no less renowned than those of war, and we shall await
with interest and suspense the announcement of the man thus honored.
NEW EXPRESSION.
N we do not know, just as we do not know what electricity is. But this we
do know: Nerve Force is the dominant power of our existence. It gov-
erns our whole life. It is Life. It is that Life which is continually growing

and developing—eagerly seeking after new ways to express its vitality and en-
durance.

ERVE FORCE is an energy created by the nervous system. What it is

MAKING MISTAKES.

When a plumber makes a mistake, he charges twice for it.

When a lawyer makes a mistake, it is just what he wanted, because he has
a chance to try the case all over again.

When a carpenter makes a mistake, it’s just what he expected.

When a doctor makes a mistake, he buries it.

When a judge maks a mistake, it be comes the law of the land.

When a preacher makes a mistake, nobody knows the difference.

But when an editor makes a mistake—Good night |—Exchange.

-

. provements fur Davidson College is a

itory. Already this season we have been

_

College Spirit is a quality created in college life. It is the dominant power

in college life.

fulness.

says,

College Spirit is college life.
channels of expression, that it might broaden

It is constantly seeking new,
its influence and expand its ‘use-

This year we are introducing a new feature to college life. A Brass |
Band. The “spirit of the times” demands it.

The spirit of the student body

“We want it, we need it; and we will have it.”
It is not necessary to speak here of the utility of a Brass Band. Every_fel-

low knows why he wants it.

It will be a new expression of the Davidson spirit
and will furnish “pep” for all occasions.

“Music vibrates through a man’s being and arouses him into a higher life
Not only does his blood circulate better, but he knows better, and feels better.

*
”

OPEN FORUM

H. A. Hill, Acting Editor.

WANTS ELECTRIC BELL SYS-
TEM INSTALLED.

One thing that should not be over-
looked in the campaign for modern im-

new bell system. We all have learned
by experience that the present system
with its bell and ringer is unsatisfac-

awakened five minutes before chapel by
the failure of the bell ringer to toll his
bell at the right time. Ie does not
make us feel very goud to run to chapel

Sev-
eral times we have had our classes rude-
ly broken into by the ringing of the bell
at the wrong time. Of course our an-
tigue bell must not get all of the blame
because it cannot act without the bell |
{

tinger’s consent. A modern electric bell
clock system would liminate this trou-
ble, which has been going on for over
half a century.

The plan proposed is to install an
electric bell system, operated by a clock.
The clock could be put in the library,
where it. would be free from molestation,
by any one. Electric bells could be put
into each one of the campus buildings
or at convenient places on the campus,
where they could be heard by every one
on the hill. The clock could be regu-
lated so that it would ring all the pe-
riods and toll for chapel just at the right
time, and not before or after.

On Sunday the bells could be stopped
except for church and at other neces-
sary times. This is not a “Jules Verne”
dream, for the writer has seen it tried
out with the greatest success at the High
School in his home town. Of course
this system would be rather expensive to
install but it would be cheapest in the
long run. The college has to pay a bell
ringer year after year to toll the present.
bell. Why could not this money be used
on a new electric system? The advan-
tages of the new system are great, be-
cause it is always accurate, never fails
to work and causes no confusion to fac-
ulty or students. Why not consider this
system as a future improvement for
Modern Davidson?

“INTERESTED.”

A SOPHOMORE OPPORTUNITY

Fellows, as you all know, we are now
passing through what promises to be one
of the most successful years in the his-
tory of Davidson College. Everything
possible is being done both by the stu-
dent body and by the supporters of the
college to secure for us a bigger, and,
what is more important, a better Da-
vidson. Action is being taken along all
lines and everything is encouraged
which will add to the fair name of Da-
vidson College.

Every last man of us wants to do his
bit to assist in this great campaign.
Some of us are talented along this line
and some along that, but there is one
thing that, first, every man in the Soph-
omore class especially, and, second, in
the entire student body, can do at once.
Men, there is a tiny stain marring Da-
vidson's breastplate, a stain which is
noticed more plainly by outsiders than
by the students themselves. This blot
ts the slight amount of hazing which
takes place here at times. It is in the
power of the present Sophomore class,
‘the class of 1922, to remove this blot,
and thereby let the light of the old col-
lege shine that much brighter! Fellow
classmen this is an opportunity for ser-
vice and an act of honor for the class
of ’22 which we cannot afford to let
pass! The time for action is here. An
lapportunity to render a valuable service
ko the college lies before us! Shall we
stand idly by and leave the honor of

(Editor's Note: “The Davidsonian”
exchanges weekly with over fifty leading

college publications. We shall strive
through this column to reflect the best
thoughts of the college world and to
publish news that will interest all who
are acquainted with college life. The
editor reserves the right, however, to
criticise, misquote or burn any and all.
exchanges). "|
FRESHMAN RULES AT RUT-,
_. GERS COLLEGE.

Within one week after college opens!
every freshman must know the words,
and tune of their Alma Mater, so that
he can‘sing it at any time or place if re-
quested by an upper classman.—The
Targum, Can we not have the same
rules?

i

WELL PROTECTED.
For the protection and safety of the
students, Winthrop now has two night
matrons who make regular and frequent

rounds inside the at all through

the night. One night matron has serv-
ed heretofore but with the additional
dormitory two have been found neces:
sary.—Winthrop Weekly News.

RATS AT WESTHAMPTON.

Rule I—Thou shalt have no dates ex-
cept those approved by a committee of
three Sophomores.

Rule [11—Thou shalt make unto thy-
self a green button three inches in diam-

eter to wear every except Sunday,
so no creature in heaven above or the
earth beneath or the waters under the

earth will be like unto thee.

Rule X—Thou shalt wear 29-cent
hose and thou shalt not covet thy neigh-
bor’s silk ones— The Richmond Colle-
gran,

BAND REORGANIZED.

The Emory and Henry band, organ-
ized last year as a military organization,
has started its work. for this year and
promises to become one of the most im-
portant college activities, with the sup-
port of the student body both in sympa-
thy and talent—The Weekly Bulletin,
C

TRACK TEAM BUSY. |

If individual records are at all relia-
ble, the University of Alabama will be
represented by a cross country track
team, secand to none, and one which will
cause anxiety and perhaps fear on the

|
|
|
|

this deed to some succeeding class, or
shall we act now when the occasion de-—
mands it? wh

I say that the occasion demands it for |
the following reasons:

‘ First—Because similar action is be-
ing. and has been, taken by other A-1
colleges; we wish to keep abreast of the
times. Hazing is symbolic of the prep
school spirit. The cadet corps at V. P..
I. voted to abolish hazing during last
May. :

Second—-The principles involved in
hazing are wrong. Hazing is strictly !
forbidden by law, and college men have
no more right, if as much, to, disobey
the laws than other citizens.

Third—It hurts the college, as little
as you think it, even in as mild a form
as we have of it. i

Let us consider this matter seriously
during the next few days; an opportu-
nity will probably be given you in the’
immediate future to show where you |

stand.
SOPHOMORE.

|

part of every other college in the S. I.
A. A. and the S. A. A. U. meet at Bir-
;mingham on December 6—The Crim-
‘son White.

| SOPHOMORES DISCUSS
* RIGHTS OF FRESHMEN

At a meeting of the Sophomore class,
it was decided that the Freshmen having
girls up to the opening hops could at-
tend the first dance provided they wore

| black ties with their full dress suits. —

Ring-Tum-Phi.

' The Red and Black announces that
'plans are under way for the establish-
‘ment of a Post of the American Legion
at the University of Georgia.

OGLETHORPE.

Oglethorpe University has increased
the number of their enrollment by ac-
cepting women students, Although no
active campaign has been conducted, it
was decided that any desiring to enter
would not be turned away. They now
have three womn students registered and
several more waiting only tw arrange
their courses —The Petrel.

UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CARO-
LINA.

The nineteen-nineteen annuals. or the
war annual, will be issued to the stu-
dents about the sixth of October.—T he
Gamecock, Perhaps the Davidson an-
nual will appear on the Christmas tree—
who knows?

LAWRENCE COLLEGE.
About eighty men at Lawrence Col-
lege are able to take advantage of the
soldiers’ educational bonus this year.—
The Lawrentian.

OAK RIDGE.

Oak Ridge opened with an enroll-
ment of 230, 120 applications being
turned down, Every county in North
Carolina being represented. A very suc-
cessful year is anticipated.—The Oak
Leaf.

The real live man, the man who suc-
ceeds, is the one who does some real re-
éatch study and keeps abreast with the
fi The man who confines himself
solely to his text books will necessarily
be a narrow man and is destined to fail
in life—Orange and Blue.

AS OTHERS SEE US.

The Y. W. C. A. at Davidson is as-
suming larger proportions than ever be-
fore.—The Mississippian, May the “Y.
W.” increase in numbers.

Did you ever notice this,

When a fellow steals a kiss,

From a righteous little maiden calm and
meek

How her scriptural training shows,

In not turning up her nose,

But simply turning round the other
cheek ?

—Crimson White.

Light remarks often bring dark re-
sults,—Exchange.

rs

BradyPrinting Co.

Statesville, N. C.

The College Printers

If you want good printing

and quick service, BRADY

Pi ed

ORDERS SOLICITED
ATTHECOMMISSARY

weawceea a

16 Chambers

