4 THE

The DAVIDSONIAN

Founded by Class of '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill” '

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College. :

Bntered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mall Matter of the Second Class. |

CRIPTION RATES:

: SUBS
Five Cents per copy; $1.26 the Collegiate Year.

6. H. ASKEW........0.00605 seceeseeeseececeseees Peneeee seseseseseeseses +s Halton. In-Chtef
" EL CASBELL...........ccccccccccuccccuccccccccttecccccsecsececaccesces nagi
IR BOUL WARE, "Tris iiicacecsccecccccscscsesceccccncececscecee oieee Assignment Editor .
Ta B, SCHENCK. «+--seeseeeceeeceeeeeseet settee csanessesaceneaaeee Sporting Editors
8. H. ASKEW......

....Alumnl Editor
b See AMER “Exchange Editor
HA HILL........ ..-Forum Editor
T. H. GSPENCE,......cccccccsccccvescccseccscccscensescsssesesvcccscecnces Campus Editor
L. G. CALHOU MC. A. Editor
ALL. WILSON. ie iirice ninco ceca acca eee e eae case Social Editor
J. M. GASTON. Jr.. . Literary Editor
R. R. McILWAINE... Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB

D. L. MAHOOD

A. M. MITCHBLL
B. B. BREITENHIRT
M. R. DOUBLES

WwW. W. MO®@RE

J. M, RICHARDS

J. Cc. WOOL

W. P. CUMMING
J. M. DUNLAP
R. BITZBR
M. W. DOGGETT
T. F. MARTIN
J. W. PHILLIPS
E. H. TUFTS

=. N. BOOKER
T. L. LISTON
R. CRAIG
. BE. CUNNINGHAM
. M. GILMER
. P. PRICE
Cc. SUMMERS

1) rtere for thie issue are: W, C. P. Or- |
manta Maar. ACC. ‘Ormand, Jr, W. C. Sealth, C. S. H.

Neel, R. E.
. G. Loa

McClure, W. A. Gamble. Jr.. A.
we B. Sanders, M. P. Cs lhoun,

any.

MA! HW .» Buaineas Manager
= 7 WiLSO ws.- ..- Assistant Manager
L. Le. MCALISTER. .....ccccescceccccecscccccccvscscccsevsceencececoes Circulation Manager
C. H. LONG......... sieeeenneeeessnenenees ee, \stant Managers
A. M. MITCHELL. ..........cecceccecseeees tees

EDITORIAL _

My heart sinks down when I behold the calendar on the wall.—:
Class of 20.

Let’s maké another “holler day” Friday.

One consolation is our song has future aspirations, “O Davidson
we will conquer.”

Three weeks until exams. Study early to avoid the cram.

[OPEN FORUM |

. swer

DAVIDSONIAN, November 20, 1919

Zo SS

——TY wrt LS
| ExcHANGE |
HN COLUMN |

| a)

(Editor’s Note—Any one wishing to
contribute articles to the Forum, please |
feel at liberty to do so. Let's have ‘more
discussion, pro or con, by the students
on college problems from now on.)

The Need of a Telephone at the
Gym.

How about a telephone at the Gym?

At most any college you may name | (Editor’s Note: }
there is included in the equipment of the | ¢xchanges weekly with over fifty leading

Y. M. C. A. a telephone for the use of College publications. We shall strive
the students. There the students may through this column to reflect the best
do their promiscuous talking and local thoughts of the college world and to
calls, but the chief benefit derived from Publish news that will interest all who
this system is that the operator will te acquainted with college life. The
know where to get you for a long dis- Cditor reserves the right, however, to
tance call. criticise, misquote or burn any and all
As it is a call comes in at 9 p. m. for exchanges).
John Jack. Probably everyone has left . -_ .
the Library. The power house is lock-' ‘The success of the new system of dis-
ed up (as usual) and the consequence of tributing “The Tech” speaks well of the
it is that John does not get his call un- student body at Technology. The out-
less he happens to drop in at the central come of this experiment must be a source
office. On the other hand if there was of satisfaction, not only to those whose
a 'phone at the Gym someone could an- faith in the Technology student led to
the: call and locate the man wanted its adoption, but to everyone connected
at once. There is usually a crowd of ;with Institute affairs.
boys loitering around down at the “Y”| The result of this trial warrants con-
and there is most always someone there, : tinuance of this method of distribution.
You may say that this costs money. ,1f the success of the scheme is permanent
Well, so it does, but doesn’t everything supporters of the honor system of con-
cost that is useful? The writer is not ducting final examinations will have a
in favor of placing this cost on the Y. very strong argument favoring its adop-
M. C. A. unless they feel like theyy can tion at the Institute—The Tech,
“stand the strain.” But let the neces-| Better try it Tech; the honor system
sary funds be raised by some outside is a success at Davidson.
source, by popular subscription or other-

A brass band of twenty-four pieces is

wise. Anyway it costs nothing to dis- {
cuss a matter. Let's hear more on this /now being organized at Carson-New-
subject. Typo, {man. The organization was begun

sometime ago, and is now practically
complete. Prof. Everett has been elect-
ed chairman of business meetings, Leon
Clifton, Manager, Alex. Fox, Treas.,
jand Virgil Jones, Secretary.

The men are all enthusiastic over the

Class Athletics.

This promises to be one of the great-
est years that Davidson has ever seen

in class athletics—an important branch
-_-_-me Oo of our college life which has been par-

The member of the faculty who corrects senior speeches should |tially neglected for the past two years,
soon be able to sleep through any sermon. All varsity teams depend on the class
teams and the success of the college to
a large degree depends on her teams.
When you neglect the physical side of
your college life then all other things
come to naught. For when men fail to
exercise their bodies they become a regu-

LOYALTY OF OUR ALUMNI.

AVE you ever seen any member of an athletic team come back
from a trip saying he wished he was going to the college he
visited? Or have you run across a student who has once gone

to another college and does not say that everything considered Da- thar your mother is fond of when you
vidson is preferable? Or another case, have you ever noticed a man are at home,
who has left Davidson and gone to another institution who does not |

claim that his first choice was best? If-you have seen such a man you Avhich is left that might make or mar a
will grant that he is an exception /successful year in class athletics, and

. ._,.__ that is the way men respond to the call

At the game Saturday there were men now going to Carolina | 44, contestants on the various teams.
wearing Davidson colors. There were others who were rooting and Davidson may secure ‘the best of equip-
backing Davidson stronger, if possible, than some of the present stu- ‘ment in the U. S. but unless the men go
dent body. Then why are these things so? It is because a man does out for the teams and werk to make

not see all the advantages of this college until he has seen others, and hem "4 to fal Cha atleties will a
does not realize the opportunities which he is enjoying until he leaves | MN cos primarily thru the “tu dents.
them. ' , | Wher. you elect your managers and
Wherever you hear a man complaining and talking of where he is captains do not depend on them to put
going the next year, you may know that he is cither not making good jout a winning team unless you rally to
here or is simply dreaming of the picture painted by some enthusiastic ; their support, If you can’t play then
talker of the ideal college which does not exist. Watch him next year boost, don’t be a knocker. When your
and you will find him right back at his old stand or making plans for {class stages a game, go out there and
a further change. There are exceptions where a different curriculum |foot till your throats become dry. Get
will better suit a man’s choice of alife’s work, or where for various |that old spirit and you will sure make

lar grouch, and lose that cheery smile,

Now fellows, there is only one thing

_ band, prospects are bright for a good one
in the near future. Mr. Ralph Cooper,
,of Jonesboro, has been secured to lead
the band. He is an experienced man,
having played several years in a good
band and led bands for three years.
Instruments have been ordered and
will arrive soon— The Orange and Blue

Program Academy Theater, Monday, Tues-
day and Wednesday, Nov. 24, 25 and 26

B. OVERTURE—Academy Orchestra.
F. PATHE NEWS—CHRISTIE COMEDY.

K Pollard and His Little Bull.

eées'

Contralto and soprano

E_ Florence—HOBSON & BEATY.—Eileen

Hints to Fresh.

Prep. school ideas of humor are an-
tique. Forget them.

The transition from high school to
college is so abrupt that a good many
men lose their sense of proportion;
Watch your step.

Class cutting is a boomerang; lookout
for the comeback.—The Richmond Col-
legian,

|
‘Read the College Exchanges in the Library; Delaware college students are over-

“The Davidsonian” joyed at the innovation made in their

chapel system. Semi-weekly meetings
have been introduced. This cause for
joy is well founded—The Targum.

Wonder how this would suit David-
son College students?

All Columbia men interested in check-
ers are to gather in Room R., Earl Hall,
at noon Monday. The object of the
meeting will be to form a checker team.
Columbia Spectator.

Davidson had a checker tournament
last year. Why not have another one
this year?

Wrestling practice is progressing at a
good pace in the opinion of G. Barish,
‘17, who at present is.coaching the team
twice a week. More than twenty men,
many from last year’s team, are out.
There is, however, still need for heavy
men and especially for first year men,
who can be whipped into shape for next
year’s team.—Columbia Spectator.

Cummings and Roberts, why not get
up a large wrestling team for Davidson ? ;

“Of all sad words of tongue or pen,
the saddest are these: ‘I’ve flunked
again.’ ”

Don’t kid yourself, you've got a good
line; the professor has been in the busi-
ness longer than you have.—The Rich-
mond Collegian.

Oh, the pink ham may vanish away

And the pie be transformed to ice

cream,

But still ‘tis the sweet gentle bean
That over the table holds sway.

—The Sun Dial.

I never saw a purple cow,
I never hope to see one;
But, judging from the milk, somehow
1 feel that there must be one.
—The Sun Diet

i
fasewece

reasons a change is almost necessary.

The fact remains, however, that when a man is once imbued with
the true spirit of Davidson, no matter where his aspirations may lead
him, he is an ardent disciple of the Red and Black.

SCHOOL SPIRIT GONE WRONG.

O bet or not to bet wa the question put up to the Davidson sup-
porters in the State College game by a member of the opposing
student body. Were the students not supporting the team prop-

erly by refusing to put their money up or were they showing a truer,
better spirit by laughing at the half-shot specimen who continually
waved money in front of the Davidson stands?

The problem resolves itself into the proposition, “Are betting and
college spirit compatible?” If they are then we are lacking in that
element. To bet on your team gives the wrong incentive toward win-
ning. The desire to conquer evolves from financial teasons rather than
from loyalty to their cause. The interest is in the money, not in the
Sport. .

When a man has lost money on a game invariably he begins to
knock the team. He tries to recover and probably loses more. Natu-
rally he again begins to criticise and find fault with the playing. A
chronic grumbler finds little trouble in locating others who will grum-
ble with him until the feeling will spread among the students and prob-
ably to the team itself.

We contend that betting is not backing your team. Let us hope
that the spirit of this college will never be exemplified in the public
display of a frantic desire to bet as we have recently seen in the
games of the past few weeks.

this old college a fit place for your pre-
decessors to come. It is not the fault of
the class, but of yourself if you are not
a booster of '20 or ’21 or whatever it
happens to be. Your class is depending
‘cn you as to what you will give to it.
Get it out of your head that your class
or college owes you anything. They
owe you nothing, but you owe every-
thing in your better self to them.

So fellows, and to you new men espe-
cially, when your manager calls for you
to come out on the field, don’t say.
“Well. there is enough without me.”
What if every man in college would say

that, what would be the result? You !.

can't always sometimes tell what you
can do till you make a try. Come on
cut and make good despite the odds, The
{chances are that you can represent your
class in some preat event. Get that old
class spirit and hit the guy on the “mug”
that is continually knocking.

A certain Senior who had six straights
one dav last year says times were rather
slack when he had seven classes during
all of last week,

We hear occasionally of Davidson
men on the facultv of McCauley; some

Woods, '18; Pat Robinson, '19.

there now are: Ada Wilcox, '11; Russel

Two Different Girls and a piano.
1 A VAUDEVILLE SURPRISE.
T VAUDEVILLE’S LATEST SENSATION.

H THREE.REGALS
The Blacksmiths.

PES Se SSeS Sor E SS

ved:

weer:

Thursday, Friday and Saturday,
November 27, 28 and 29

OVERTURE—Academy Orchestra.
PATHE NEWS---ROLIN COMEDY.
Frank—-THE BRIGHTONS—Addie
Artistic Ragpickers
Present Their Original Novelty Creation
From Odds to Ends.
TIP TOP FOUR
Quartette and Real Singing Comedians.
Ernest ANDERSON & BURT—Marjorie
An Amusing Episode Founded on The Science of Domestic
'__ Harmony, entitled __
“HOME, SWEET HOME.”
DOC O'NEIL
With His New Laugh Prescriptions and Infallable Anti-
Gloom Remedy
(Guaranteed Under the Pure Fun Law)
AL. GOLEM CO.
18—The Court Artists—18
Of His Majesty the SHAH OF PERSIA |
The Slave Dealers. Ht

Program

Pre eer
Tesesaosr-

AmB

_ tt

§ezzSeseaszs

