Football Gleanings

Bright Bits of Live News

Davidson vs. University of South
Carolina, at Columbia.

Wake Forest vs. North Carolina, at
Chapel Hill.

Vanderbilt vs. Georgia Tech, at At-
lanta.

Georgetown vs. ¥. P. 1, at Wash-
ington.

Sewanee vs. Georgia, at Athens.

Virginia vs. V. M. L., at Charlottes-
ville.

Presbyterian College vs. Furman, at
Greenville.

Clemson vs. Auburn, at Auburn. —

Alabama vs. Howard, at University,
Ala. ;

Washington and Lee vs. Richmond
College, at Lexington. .

& #

future opponents

Here’s how our
came out:

South Carolina was defeated by the
University of Georgia 14-0.

Georgia Tech defeated Clemson 28-0.

State College defeated the Hampton
Roads Naval Base 100-0.

Furman beat Wofford 7-6.

Yale beat North Carolina 34-7.

_ e * ©

South Carolina showed marked im-
provement Saturday over their previous
playing. Although outweighed by the
heavy Georgia eleven, they were able
to hold them to two touchdowns, one
being made during the first few minutes
of the first quarter and the second irt
the last few minutes of the game. A!
misunderstanding. among the timekeep-
ers allowed the first quarter to run for
thirty-seven minutes, which helped to
tire the tighter eleven, “Osticelum”
White, the big center for Davidson on
the famous 1916 squad, was one of the

officials at the game.
*» *

If a close score shows anything about
a game, the Vanderbilt-Tennessee affair
must have been some scrap. It is unfor-
tunate that these old rivals locked horns
so early in the season and under such
unfavorable weather conditions. There
was a continual downpour of rain from
start to finish and the game was staged
in a young lake. In spite of the wet
field Josh Cady, the all-Southern tackle
of 1916, registered a drop kick from the
30-vard line, while Hatcher, from the
25-yard line, did the same for Tennes-
see, leaving the score 3-3, which was the
final count.
e* #
Similar to this game from the stand-
point of score was the Furman-Wofford
battle in Greenville. The Methodists
had the edge in weight but were out-
played by the Baptists, who really de-
served the game. This leaves Furman
with a record of two victories and one
defeat, the latter being administered by
the Georgia Tcch eleven.
e¢ # ©

¢

The Yale-Carolina game was charac-
terized by loose playing and frequent
fumbling on both sides. The lone score
of the Tar Heels followed a fumble by
Yale of a punt behind the goal. Before
leaving for the Yale game Nemo Cole-
man, the husky halfback, was chosen as
captain for this season. Coleman cele-
brated this honor by booting a couple for
over 60 yards.

*

West Virginia's defeat at the hands of
Pittsburgh leaves little hope for the
taming of the Panthers this season un-
less it can be done by Georgia Tech. It
was hardly expected that any team could
put four touchdowns across on the pow-
erful Mountaineers.
West Virginia endangered Pitts’ goal
was when they recovered a fumble but
were unable to make any further ad-
vance. The game was not as closely
played as it should have been, several
costly fumbles being made on both sides.

* @¢ @

A big feature in deciding the South-
ern championship will be the Vander-
-bilt-Georgia Tech game on next Satur-
day. The advance dope from Vandy

shows that they have one of the heaviest

teams the South has seen in years. The
line will average 200 pounds from end
to end and the whole team will weigh
around 18§ pounds. Pecuniarily speak-

THE DAVIDSONIAN, October 15, 1919

Athletic. News|

ing, it is rumored that Commodore
‘money in Tennessee is mighty ‘plentiful,
which is a pretty good indication of the
confidence they have in stopping the
Tornado.
* * ¢

N. C. State recovered somewhat from
the trouncing by the Navy and walked
over, the inexperienced Hampton Roads
team 100-0. An interesting feature of
the game was the record of six touch-
downs out of seven scrimmages. The
seamen outweighed the collegians but
were unable to make any headway un- |
der the superior coaching and training. .

Georgia Leads in Inter-Dormi-
tory Basketball

One-Sided Scores Mark All Games

—Very Good Form Be- :
ing Displayed |
King (2)....... Oe Freeman (7) Formulas.
Inter-dorrgitory basketball began with | Brice (12)..... R. G... ... Neel (2) Now H20 at school, you know,
a rush on last Tuesday when Georgia; Tuller......... L. G...... McKeithen’ We learned would make us healthy ;

took in North Wing Chambers, 33-13.: Substitutions:
There was not much pep manifested, , Brown for Freeman.
and only a handful of spectators were: Referee, Bub Miles.
present. This has been the case at every!

wie! *

dsr deanna xco vat didi ella

S. W. Chambers, And H. C. L., we all can tell,

F ,
“wu:

| In these latter times. a man is known

by the company he keeps away from.

Soon makes the farmer wealthy.
If H. C. L. continues—well,
We'll all most healthy grow,

Knox and Barnette

The only time;

game played to date, and the student
body is urged to take more interest in
their teams and get out.and root hard.
The game was a rather listless affair,
with occasional spurts of good team-
work by Georgia. Doubles and Brice,
for the winners, and Schenck and Cov-

ington, for the losers, did the best work
of the afternoon.

Line-up:
Georgia. N. W. C.
Doubles (12)...R. F....... Brown, J.

Chalmers (6)...L. F...Covington (8) !
C.

Askew (6)...... Skee eee Carnelson:
Brice (7)...... R. G.....Schenck (1)
King.......... L. G.....Brown, J. 5.

Substitutions: Georgia, Hyland and
Roberts (2); N. W. Chambers, Elliott
(4) and Bernhardt.

Referee, Mr. Miles. Time of halves,
1§ minutes.

On Wednesday Rumple and South
Wing Chambers played a very interesting
and snappy game, South Wing being the
victor 23-21. The final score was not
arrived at till two extra periods were
played, the game being tied at the end
of the last half and at the end of the
first extra period. There was not much
real teamwork shown till the last half
when South Wing pulled together
enough to overcome the lead Sf nine
paints which Rumple had held up to the
middle of the half. From then on it
was nip and tuck for both teams, each
missing some easy shots. Hawkins end-
ed the play by caging two free throws
in the second extra period.

Line-up:
Rumple. 8. W. C.
Crawford (4)_.R. F. Ormond,A.P.(5)
Craig (4)...... L. FP... Hawkins (10)
Mauze (5)...... C. .... Freeman (8)
Erwin, L. (6)..R. G..... eee. Neel
Erwin, M. (2).L. G...... McKeithen

Reféree, Mr. Miles. Time of halves,
1§ minutes.

Watts ran away with Louisiana on
Friday to the tune of 68-14. But if the
sizes of the two teams are considered the

result is not surprising, and the work of j

the Louisiana team was very good con-
sidering its handicap. Roberts had his
eye with him, shooting 15 field goals in
the half which he played. Hall also
starred for Watts. For the Midgets,
Dick and Brake played! the best game.

Line-up:

Watts. La.
Oltman (6)....R. F....... Brake (6)
Hall (20)...... L. F........ Dick (4)
Finley (12)..... | On oil
Fewell......... R.G...... McLaurin
Price.......... L. G...Houghton (4)

Substitutions: Watts Roberts (30),
for Fewell.

Referee, Mr. Miles. Time of halves,
1§ minutes. '

The Georgia team added another vic-

STANDING OF TEAMS. For we shall be compelled, I trow,

Wen. Lust, 2° live on H20. __ Life Entire New Line of
Georgia ..... 2 ccc eee , °
woe - 8 General Merchandise
“ig Ww: Chambers ; tf Husband (looking up from the paper
+ W. Chambers... .-.....- which he has been reading)—I see

Rumple einer es ° ! | ‘Thompson's Shirt Store has been burn- Shoes, Hats

N. W. Chambers ........ ° 1 bed out. .

Louisiana ...2..........- © 1 Wife (slightly deaf)—Whose? & Gents’ Furnishings

Husband—Thompson's Shrirt Store.
TWO TRIPS BEING PLANNED] Wife—Dear me, who tore it?—
IN COMING BASEBALL Blighty.

SEASON.
The Bank of Davidson Schloss Bros. Clothing

R. S. Johnson Co.

A New Line of

Prospects for the best baseball season
lin the history of the college are indeed
bright. Already an interesting schedule
‘of eighteen or twenty games, seven or
eight of which will be played on the
hill, is being worked up by Manager

Does Commercial Banking,
Runs a Savings’ Departm’t.,

Foscue. Has Lock Boxes For Rent —_.
The season will probably open with “Ven. bectecca ta caltaea

a game on the hill with Oak Ridge In-| ff, —Your basiaess is solletted_ fF 4 oy GROCERIES
stitute. Although nothing definite has Joba L. Douglas, Pres., W.. Thompson, Cah.
been arranged, the Red and Black ma- 4. Lee Stean, V-Pres,
chine will probably cross bats with Car- 4. . Beard, Acsistent Ceshier and
dlina at Winston-Salem on Easter Mon-

ay. ;

Two trips are being planned—one STOP AND SEE FRESH MEA TS
through the State and one through

South Carolina and Georgia. C ° h th B b A SPECIALTY

With a number of old stellars and no! unning am, e er

doubt several new ones from the class
of '23, Coach Crayton will be able to
round up a team that will make the
game interesting for any of Davidson's
opponents. ,

If I can please you tell
others. If I Don’t
please, tell me.

Next to Pressing Club

A Full Line of
Undertaking Supplies

THE SCRUB.

When the football season rolls around

Some loyal fellow ean be found S } §
‘Who is ready to die and do his best CE S ce Us For
That his Alma Mater may mount the
crest. —__= Hardware and Farm impliments
The season has not made much advance For your events. We carry a Phone 85

full line of Stationery, Huyler’s
Candy, Waterman’s Fountain
Pens. Agents for Scholtz, the

‘When he sees that he has not a chance
To make the team, the varsity, that sea-+

son,
But he is out fighting, fighting for a rea-
son.

FELLOWS

And this is the reason you all may know

Florist.
He's fighting that glory for his college Our Drink s
will glow ,

‘He knows that when the scrub team was
good Are Unexcelled
Just that much higher the varsity stood.

I am agent for the Ben

Special service given to your

Vonde Company, the
prescriptions.

Though he be battered and torn apart
‘Not one times does he ever lose heart
‘And by many he is often termed a Dub |:
But all hail to the ever fighting scrub.

—Petrel.

cour course receivinc an-Jetton Dr ug Co.

NUAL CLEANING.

The golf course is now being cleaned UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

Yours truly, largest and best dry clean-

ing establishment in the

tory to their number last Friday by win- off. Quite a number of the students
ning from §. W. Chambers. Georgia | have been helping during their spare
seems to be trying to go through with-| time to cut grass and bushes off the
out a defeat and so far hei record. is un-| course.

broken. Doubles and Brice were the! If this work keeps up, playing can be
mainstays for Georgia, while McCrary] started in a short time.

was the individwal star for S. W. Cham-| The plans of the club will be an-
bers. Line-up: nounced later.

Georgia: S. W. C. Seno

Hyland (6)....R. F....McCrary (9)| No man ever made much of a success
Doubles (14). -L. F..Ormand,A.P.(2)'as his own press agent.

RICHMOND, VA. South.

Perfectly appointed buildings,
spacious grounds, well-balanced
cutriculum, strong faculty. For
catalogue address

W. W. MOORE, D D., LUD., President

E. N. BOOKER

18 Watts
