The

Pounded by Clase of '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill"

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mall Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
Five Cents per copy; $1.25 the Collegiate Year.

. Editor-in-Chief

D. W. ROBDRTS.....0.:-ceeccescsesseseesesesersensecteneaeonssessenees qiEaltor-in-chiet
+P RCOLWARE, Jr..cscs SUIS Adaintent Baltor
i. B, BCHENCK «---- severe rere eas nsccceeecessenaeeeeues Sporting Editors
B. H. ASKEW........-0sse ee ‘:tumat Baltor
J. C, MeCASKILL. .-. -,gAjumnl Baltor
e Hi SPENCE Campus Editor
1 G. CALHOUN cM. Cciai Editor
an Maton it ....LAterary Editor
KR SIaLWAINE IE Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB

D, L. MAHOOD

A. M. MITCHELL
B. B, BRBITENHIRT
M. R. DOUBLES

WwW. W. MOORE

J. M. RICHARDS

J. Cc. WOOL

WwW. P. CUMMING
J. M. DUNLAP
R. BITZER

M. W. DOGGETT
T. F. MARTIN
J. W. PHILLIPS
E. -H. TUFTS

EB, N. BOOKER
R. T. L. LISTON

R. R. CRAIG

C. EB, CUNNINGHAM
J. M. GILMER

J. P. PRICE

A. C, SUMMERS

W. R. Booth.

Additional reporters for this issue are: A. P. Ormend, A. C. Ormand,
} : ..- Business Manager

C. J, MATTHEWS........ccceseccenedcncccrerccnseseecenssersesseeees ‘Business Manager
L: FE. oS eTER ere .Circulation Manager

Cc. H LONG
A. M. MITCHELL

EDITORIAL

i f sickness,
Due to the continued absence of D. W. Roberts on account o ,
Dwight Chalmers has been elected Editor-in-Chief Pro Tem.

Keep that Handbook Handy.

Real life finds its joy not in the satisfaction of the man as he is, but in the
development of that which his thought and love enable him to become.

Don't worry, Wildcats, cooler weather is coming. Tigers are used to

tropical heat and “dampness.” ete ,

ACCORDING TO WERSTER: ; : .
A thug is “One of a fraternity of robbers in India who practiced secret

murder, as an act of propitiation to the goddess Kali; a ruffian.”

AWE RESOLVE: ; . . >
To take at least thirty minutes of exercise each day. Do you?

OUR WEEKLY FALSEHOOD: . ;
All Seniors have completed their Senior Orations.

UNFULFILLED PROPHECY: ; ; ;
Davidsonian, Jan. 15, 1919.—"Amo Love has an unenviable job as editor

of the Annual, but we are confident thit he will put out a volume that will do

credit to the Senior class." Is this a slim on the class of '19?
UNDULY HONORED.

I founding “The Davidsonian.” We have since learned from several

sources that members of the class of '15 were the far-seeing sponsors

of the “Livest Wire.” We publicly confess our error, humbly beg their par-

don, and promise never to do it again. Nevertheless, we have profited even by

this mistake, for we have learned that the founding of “The Davidsonian” is

an honor any class might covet, and that our alumni are reading even the edito-
rial page!

HE CLASS OF ‘14 has been given credit in the past three issues for

WAKE. UP WITHIN YOURSELF.

HE days for the blowing of bubbles and the dreaming of dreams are

done. New times are impending and new needs necessitate methods

unknown of old. Strange difficulties are arising only to give oppor-
tunities for stranger accomplishments. The earth bounds the possibilities of
the man of the great mind; space those of the man of the great heart: but
infinity itself fails to check or confinethe man of the great soul.

College men are leading the world. A Davidson College man is leading
the leaders. The inference is intelligible. You can never ascertain your pow-
ers by living in a trance. Take yourself for a trial spin. Find out what you
can do: then show others. Potential energy never helped this college to be
better or grow greater and never will. Lend your talents to your fellows.
nothing will develop both more quickly.

Remember in all your striving: Greatness is good but goodness is far
greater. .Many a city has been seized while the watch slept. A sleeping
sentinel never gave an alarm. Work with a will for the welfare of your col-
lege, but first—WAKE UP WITHIN YOURSELF.

A TWENTY POINT MAN.

I ther it permits a man to hold only one five-point job. But we know a
man who is holding down four five-point offices and it is our purpose
to expose him. The only explanation we can offer for this grave violation of
our worthy constitution is the fact that he accomplishes each of his jobs better
than another man could, putting all his time on that job. He is the busiest
man on the. campus, but he always has time to chat a while with the rest of

us. He is as interested in our troubles as he is in his own.

As secretary of the Greater Davidson Club, he has brought together the
largest student body in our history. The Alumni Athletic Association seized
upon him for its secretary, and he is making that organization a powerful fac-
tor in Davidson athletics. When the students wanted a “Y" man they chose
him unanimously, and he is bringing the Y. M. C. A. into the life of every
student. He is assistant basketball coach, “Dawlhdsonian” adviser and student
champion: In addition to these man size tasks, he holds first place in our hearts.
Do you know who he is?

) Star Reporters this issue: J. M. Richards and M. R. Doubles.

HE Point System allows a man to hold only 9 points at one time. Fur-

DAVIDSONIAN

|

A GRAIN O
May the S. A. T. C. never return!

pep then and can still do it.

tween reels at our next movie?

OPEN FORUM —

H. A. Hill, Acting Editor.

Comparative Impressions.

(Editor's note: ‘There are at David-
son a number of men who came here
after two or three years spent at other
colleges. It is our purpose to have them
tell us through the “Forum” how Da-
vidson’s customs and ideals compare
with those of the colieges they have for-
saken).

The Forum is the department in our

discussion of any topic pertaining to
student life. Op:nions, ideas, and sug-
gestions—either constructive or de-
structive — on campus improvements,
college activities, student body policies
or any other subject are welcomed by
the Forum editor. By putting up to
the public any problem of student life,
thought on that problem is encouraged,
and very tikely right conclusions will
soon be reached. The alumni are also
urged to keep the old college in mind,
and to send us any advice or suggestions
they believe helpful to Davidson. All
communicotions to the Forum must of
course bear the signature of the author,
though it will not be published if he so
desires,

"STICK, STAY, STUDY.

A’more or less famous saying is that
a honeymoon is a space of time between
love sick and sick of love. In other
words, it is a time when the two con-
tracting parties wake up to a realization
of exactly what she or he has bargained
for and bought.

Right now, Freshmen, you are having

THE DAVIDSONIAN, October 8, 1919

F GOOD.

But there was one thing it brought

to Davidson that ought not to pass away, namely, singing. Singing gave us
Davidson has some fine songs of her own which
every loyal student should know and sing. Can we not start something be-

Davidson is the friendliness shown to a
new man. When a boy enters college,
he does not like to be looked down upon
by the upper classmen and snubbed. At
a military school this prevails and of
course goes a long way towards preserv-
ing discipline, but to one who does not
care to make his future life that of a
military nature, this is very disagree-
able.

I also like the attitude that is shown
here to the men by the professors. It
is quite frequent that a professor can
be seen in a friendly conversation with
one of the students, which is very rarely
seen at any military school.

“JIM.”

APPOINTMENTS ANNOUNCED
FOR REORGANIZED
BATTALION.

At the reorganization of the battalion,
the following officers and non-commis-
sioned officers were appointed :

Major—Hall, W. M.

Adjutant—Hall, W. F.

Company A.

Captain—Samople, J. H.

First Lieutenant—Romefelt, B. W.

Second Lieutenant—Foscue, A. L.

First Sergeant—Mitchell, A. A:

Sergeants—Price, J. P., Cornelson,

G. H., Douglas, P., Brice, §. D.

Corporals—Boney, E. R., Poteat, J.
A., Wilkinson, L. L., Story, §. D., Ram-
seur, W. L., Groves, J. W., Fairey, W.
F., Dick, L. W., Cunningham, C. E.,
Aiken, R, C.

Company B.

Captain—Boulware, J. R.

First Lieutenant—Gaston, J. M.

Second Lieutenant—McGeachy, D.
P.

First Sergeant—Harrell, W. H.

Supply Sergeant—Mcllwaine, R. R.

Sergeants—Heizer, M. B., Nash,

your honeymoon with fair, blithe, blos-| -. A

soming Davidson. You have thought
and loved to think of yourself in the
future as a successful college student.
You have spent over a month here, and
likely will spend another and probably
the greater part of two. Next, you will
wake up and find that something defi-
nite is demanded of you. It will be
found that merely staying with David-
son will not please her. Many new men,
are unwilling to stick when they find |
some effort, some study, some work is
required of them. Many ask for a ‘di-
vorce of their own accord, others de-
part abruptly, and in other cases the
fair mistress must ask for a divorce for,
failure on the part of the student to.
support her in the way she has been ac-:
customed to live through the past years. |
Now that you are at Davidson, know:

paper which is open to everybudy for

“| that you will be expected to work; so!

stick, Freshmen, stick, whatever comes.
or goes.
Cc. W.

DAVIDSON VS. A MILITARY
SCHOOL.

After finishing high school, a great
‘problem confronted me, and that was,
what kind of a college must 1 go to.
‘That was the time when all thought we
were going to take part in the great
world war; so to get the military train-
ing before going into the service, I de-
cided to go to a military school.

To a boy that cares to make his fu-
ture life one of military, 1 think that a
military school is the place for him to
attend. At a military school, a good
education may be obtained, but for spe-
cializing it is impossible. The reason [
like Davidson and what it has over a
military school is its free life. A fel-
low here obtains the real joys of college
life, the kind that he has been yearning
for for years,

As every one knows, the human body
should have some sort of recreation.
Here at Davidson, we have plenty of
time for this, but at a military school it
is different. Very little time to be had
in which a boy can really call his own—
every minute having to be accounted for
in some form of work. At Davidson,
one has more time to mingle with his
classmates which I consider half of a
man’s education.

One of the many things I like about

Corporals—Brice, R. M., Grantham,
G. D., Hedges, W. B., Davis, S. M.,
Roddey, J., Bernhardt, J. W.

. Company C.

Captain—Taylor, J. P.

First Lieutenant—Wilson, T. H.

Second Lieutenant——-Doubles, M. R.

First Sergeant—Richards, J. G.

Supply Sergeant—Query, S.

Sergeants—La Far, D. R., Lowry,
T. M., Horton, L. T.

Corporals—Price, J. K., Ratchford,
W. S., Curry, J. S., Doggett, M. W.,
Toms, M. F.

Company D.
Captain—Shields, B. E. .
First Lieutenant—Davis, A. J.

we" Lieutenant — McFadden, J.

First Sergeant—Hunter, C.

Supply Sergeant—Spence, T. H.

Sergeants—Bethea, P. O., Clyburn, |

T. B., Drake, A. E.
Corporals—Bailey, J. C., Summers,
A. C., Montgomery, L. F., Shaw, R.
K., McCorkle, W. W., Hamer, B. M.
Company E.
Captain—Rogers, R. L.
First Lieutenant—McCaskill, J. C.
Second Lieutenant—Phillips, J. W.
First‘ Sergeant—Breitenhirt, B. B.
Supply Sergeant—Finley, A. C.
Sergeants—Liston, R. T. L., Wright,
F. J., McEwen, A. J.
Corporals—Richards, J. M., Or-
mond, A. C., Cellar, A. E., Clark, J.
F., Carmichael, G. M., Fraser, L. L.

R. O. T. C. SERGEANTS MOVE
INTO NEW QUARTERS.

A new dormitory on the campus pre-
sents the latest illustration of the effi-
ciency of our R. O. T. C. unit. Al-
though in appearance it might easily be
mistaken for the old shower annex of
Morrison Memorial Hall, it is in fact
the “Sergeants’ Dormitory.” When it
is finished it will contain two whole
rooms . which will compare favorably
with the best room on the Hill.

Perhaps even more startling additions
to the college property will be staged
when the treasurer gets his hands on
that prospective $400.000, so be sure to
do everything you can (even write
home) to boost that $1,000,000 cam-
paign for the sake of New D. C.

rf
| | EXCHANGE

it

‘COLUMN
anal

Read the College Exchanges in the Library

(Editor’s Note: ‘The Davidsonian”
exchanges weekly with over fifty leading
college publications. We shall strive
through this column to reflect the best
thoughts of the college world and to
publish riews that will interest all who
are acquainted with college life. The
‘editor reserves the right, however, to
criticise, misquote or burn any and all
exchanges).

FACULTY VS. STUDENTS.

The Black Sox defeat White Sox,

17-5. Much interest was aroused here
last Wednesday afternoon when the fac-
ulty beat the students 17 to 5 in a game
of baseball.
1 Feature of the game was the mode of
dress adopted by each team. The fac-
ulty team was known by their black
socks, while the students’ team was
known by their white socks. The stu-
| dents wore white blouses, dark bloomers,
‘dark shoes and white socks.—7T he Caro-
_linian,

TECH TO HAVE BIG SMOKER.

i The All Technology Smoker will be
on October 17. It is expected that 2,-
§00 or 3,000 men will be present. An

* | ideal entertainment is being arranged.—

Boston Tech.

On every count a higher education
[pays. There are men without it who
succeed and do well. But not a one of
ithem is there that wouldn't do better
with it. It increases the earning power,
it makes one more useful to his com-
i munity, it gives mental and moral poise,
jand it develops character, provided one
is a man. But not all the colleges in
three dozen states can make a man out
of a fool.—Charlotte Observer.

It’s not the cough
That carries you off,
But the coffin
They carry you off in.
— Orange and Blue.

‘PROFS. THREATEN TO GO ON
STRIKE.

' The total enrollment of students in
the University will in all probability go
beyind the 1,000 mark. On the first
two days of registration, crowds of stu-
dents thronged about the registration
_desks, until even ever cheerful professors
_ threatened to form a union and strike
for shorter hours.—T he Kentucky Ker-
nel.

OPPORTUNITY,

1
There’s a hammer called opportunity
And when the moment comes
To clinch success or else to fail,
For each who fairly strikes the nail,
A hundred hit their thumbs.

—The Misstssippian.
—
The freshest bunch of freshmen we
ever saw are now “upper classmen.”—
The Mississipphan. 1s it not so here?

SD,
HEALTH HINTS.

| te Sleep with the window closed
tight.
2. Never air your bed covers.
3. Never go to bed.
4. Over eat.
5. Don't eat at all.
; 6. Swallow your food without chew-
ing it well.
7. Be tough and wear much clothin
8. Never take a bath. *
9. Don't ever think of changi
underwear weekly, aging your
10. Never walk but always ride.
_ 11, Keep mouth open when breath-
ing and never take deep breath.
12. Don't drink any water.
13. Never take an afternoon off a
week,
_ 14. Have a good grouch on all the
time. |
15. Never exercise and

/
licked. then “get
