12 The DAVIDSONIAN, April 23, 1919

14 N. Tryon St. B. A. Lingle, Mgr. Charlotte, N.C.

= ‘20-25-30

Whatever Price You Pay---You Save $10

Trivers Smart Suits, Actually Breathing Broadway Atmosphere

7 *iweis emer vee See OE
From our own style factory, right in the style-creating center of Broadway, with the last word in style
effect added, these suits are now offered in complete variety for the man who wants to select from
models that are classified as strictly smart.

ALL-WOOL FABRICS USED IN TRIVERS CLOTHES
All-wool fabrics costs us more but they assure Trivers Satisfaction. Wool fabrics are our kind exclu-
sively, last longer, obtain their shape better, stay stylish and guarantee the well known brand of
Trivers Satisfaction gr your money back.
The regular Trivers prices $20, $25 and $30 include the finest all-wool master-tailored clothes; they are
clothes for every man at every man’s price. With our Union Factory and 19 branch stores Trivers
distributed the largest and greatest clothes values in America.

Factory: 801-807 Broadway, New York City Branch Stores in 19 Cities

°

ALUMNI PARAGRAPHS. ALICE KISSED ME.

spirit of unselfishness and only and sole-

Returned Soldiers
Given Social

Christian Endeavors Entertained At,

Church.

The Christian Endeavor Society of
the Presbyterian Church gave a very at-
tractive social last Thursday night to
the soldiers of Davidson who have re-
turned from services overseas. ‘The reg-
ular meeting room of the society was
used and was beautifully decorated with
flags and flowers.

After all had talked for a short while
games were started. After these Miss
Elizabeth Cranford, the president of the
society, welcomed the soldiers back, tell-
ing them how much they had been miss-
ed and how glad and thankful the so-
ciety was of their return. This was fol-
lowed by a piano solo by M. A. Tremain.
Then Dr. Arbuckle made a strong
appeal to the soldiers, telling them of
the society’s interest in them through the
years that they had been gone and plead-
ing for their support and interest in its
work. Couples now paired off again for
conversation dates. During this time vio-
lin duets were given by D. M, Gaston
and C. E. Cunningham. After this re-
freshments were served and ide cream
and cake appeared in abundance. To
match off couples to go home, the boys
and girls were given flowers, previously
paired off. The boy accompanied the girl
who had the mate to his lower.

The. social was a success in every way
and reflected credit on the church, the
Christian Endeavor Society and the so-
cial committee which labored so faithful-
ly in preparing for it.

(Continued from page 1)
rifices; are a glorious heritage left to
Davidson, which time can never dim but
mly serve to brighten the lustre and
fame of their noble deeds.

° cd *

Do you know the fighting parson of
the 113th Field Artillery, Thirtieth Di-
vision—the division composed of the
brave boys who were first to break the
supposedly impregnable Hindenburg line.
Meet him while you are at commence-
ment, He is a Davidson alumnus.

Many of his comrades in arms are go-
ing to be with us at Commencement, just
as loyal to their Alma Mater as they
proved loyal to their country.

e * tf

Some of them, however, will not be
with us—they will never “come back” —
for, in the performance of their duty and
in defense of justice, humanity and the
civilization of the world, they made the
supreme sacrifice and are now sleeping
the last sleep, in honored graves, beneath
the blood-stained soit of France.

* e

The time now seems auspicious and
propitious to make the Commencement
of 1919 memorable in the annals of the
college.

e . *

On behalf of the college and in the
name of the Alumni Association, there-
fore, a most cordial welcome is extended
to every alumnus to join with us then
at our annual banquet, in making this
Commencement a reunited reunion of
Davidson boys.

° e

This appeal is made to you through

the Davidsonian, fellow alumni, in a

ly for the welfare and betterment of our

Alma Mater.
BOB MILES RTEURNS

(Continued from page 1)
His work as Y. &. A. secretary

has increased the influence of the col-

lege association a hundredfold on the

campus and has brought practically every
student into contact with some one of
its phases. To have him here next year

means to have a year of growth, of

progress and of success, °

DR. MARTIN INVITES ALUMNI

(Continued from page 1)

many alumni as possible will make the
pilgrimage to Davidson during the
commencement. The classes of ’99 and
‘14 are planning reunions with a lunch-
eon and other features. 1 hope all
members will attend and let other classes
do the same.

But even if your class can’t hold a re-
union, come anyway. We are all one
big family and we shan’t be lonesome.

(Signed ) W. J. Martin.

KAPPA ALPHAS ENTERTAIN.

Misses Janet Mellon, Mary Stuart
Alexander, Elizabeth Miller, Nancy
Shelton. Catherine Gilmer, Elsie Pal-
mer, Elizabeth Dowd. Rogers Gibbon,
Eloise Martin and Elizabeth Grey were
guests of the Kappa Alpha Fraternity
cn Last Friday afternoon, After the
Trinity game the visitors were inform-
aily entertained at the fraternity hall,
at which time light refreshments were
served

Yesterday for the first time Alice kiss-
ed me. Her rosy lips lingered on my
cheeks for one heavenly instant.

When I walked to the club it was
a_ if everyone knew of my radiant hap-
piness. ‘The newsboys stared at me; an
old woman winked at me jmy father
shook his fist at me from the car win-
dow ; George and Bertie laughed happily
as they passed me on the street; five
pretty girls smiled at me.

When I reached the club Jenkins
looked at me and brought me a hand
mirror.

I do wish Alice would use paler rouge
on her lips—Washington Square Deal-
&.

WATCH YOURSELF GO BY.

Just stand aside and watch yourself go

Think of yourself as “he” instead of “I.”

Pick flaws; find fault; forget the man
is you,

And strive to make your estimate ring

true.

The fults of others then will dwarf and
shrink, ¢

Love’s chains grow stronger
mighty link.

When you with “he” as substitute for

by one

Have stood aside and watched yourself
go by.

RECKLESS GIRL.
“How did Mabel catch cold?”
“Her own carelessness. She forgot
that it is fashionable to wear furs this
summer, and went out without them.”
