THE DAVIDSONIAN, October 1, 1919

Your Clothing Store

That’s what we are trying to make of the Lingle Clothing Store. It

is you that we are trying to please and serve. We offer you merchan-

dise that we can stand behind and guarantee to give satisfactory wear
and at prices based on the lowest possible selling expense—these prices
the same to all. We ask no favor of you other than that you give us

a chance to show you and that you carefully compare our prices,

—~ / considering quality always. You decide whether you will give us

2, your patronage on a basis of merit only. Grant us this favor and we

v have no doubt but what you will make our clothing store your clothing
store.

OUR GUARANTEE: Any and every Suit, Coat, Hat or Cap you

buy from us is guaranteed to give satisfactory wear as you have a right

to expect. We will do what you think necessary to satisfy you, evento

replace with new garments.

Lingle Clothing Company

203 West Trade St., Charlotte, N. C.
B. A. Lingle Phone 3113 D. A. Presley

Elegance and Character are Marked Features i
NEW COLLEGE CLOTHES

The style features are notably distinctive, the fabrics attain 7
the eminence of elegance, and the tailoring is handled in so smart
a manner as to insure absolute shape-permanance and grace in "
fit and drape. .

We welcome.a visit to this young men’s section where the
fall styles are displayed.

“SOCIETY BRAND” and “FASHION PARK” |
HANAN SHOES, DABBS HATS

THE TATE-BROWN CO. |

CHARLOTTE

(Continued from Page 1.) n Our
men had finished their labors and had re-
turned to the hill.

The latest available report shows
that about 9,500 pounds of cotton were
picked by the eight crews. The delega-
tion at Gamble's led with 2,200 pounds.

“The Lone Horseman of the
Apocolypse” in Library

Gives Vivid and Powerful Descrip-

She al-yoa e-hound sole tion of the French Spirit

For college men, busi-
ness men, professional
men, men of sports—
baseball, football, golf,
tennis, shooting, riding.
For everybody, every-
where, the year ’round,
Bevo is hale refresh-
ment for wholesome
thirst—an invigorating
soft drink. Ideal for the
athlete or the man in
physical or mental train-
ing—good to train on
and gain on. Healthful
and appetizing. It must

The reviewer, on looking over the
book shelves of the library, could find no

Ibook as popular at the present time as A Vi ctrola In Y our Home

“The Four Horsemen of the Apoca-

lypse.”” by th atest of mod Span- . . oe
ne svovelists. Vincente. Blasco Theres, Gives access to the best music in all the world produced

This powerful classic (for so it is con- by the Greatest Artists
sidered by many) portrays the splendid

spirit of France in the war when the * .p; .

cataclysin of the German hordes tried Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet Muste

the manhood of France to the extreme. and Everything in Music

The book is also of interest from the

fact that a Spaniard wrote it when Spain p)

was a neutral country with more or less F, H. ANDREW, S MU. SIC STORE

pro-German tendencies. The story it-

self is one of intense feeling and action. 213 N. Tryon St. Phone 3626 Charlotte, N. C.
The scenes vary from the wild life of

the cattle rancher of the pampas to the

life of the social idol—the pampered fop

of the the'dansante in the great hub of

fashion—Paris. Into this elysium fell JITNEY SERVICE BETWEEN MOORESVILLE,

UTE 1 ose

. the bomb which set the world on fire DAVIDSON AND CHARLOTTE
be ice cold. and let loose the four horsemen on the
carth— plague, war, hunger and death. SCHEDULE
e strict military system of Kultur, .
ANHEUSER-BUSCH the disregard for human rights and life, Leave Mooresville 1.40 P. M. 6.00 P. M.
ST. LOUIS and the inexorable egotism of the Ger- Leave Devideon 2.00 P. M. 6.20 P. M.
° man soldier are shown in the viyid pic- Arrive Charlotte 3.30 P. M. 7.40 P. M.
ture of the Battle of the Marne. Out Teave Charlotte 4.00 P. M. 11.00 P. M.
S . l ‘a of this depressed state comes the rebirth A ive rae vill 5.20 P. M. 12.20 A. M.
erve it co of France and the retreat of the army ooresville 5.40 P. M. 12.40 A. M.
that would Prussianize the world. The SUNDAY
old man, selfish and mercenary, wakes Leave Mooresville 9.00 A. M.
up te realize the new world around him Leave Charlotte 8.00 P. M.
and lives to bathe his tears on the war
trodden fields of France for the son who CAMP GREENE TRANSIT COMP ANY
so bravely gave his life that the world 200 Com. Bank Bldg Charlotte, N. C.

might be freed from the yoke of oppres-
sion,
