Athletic News

A. and E. of N. C. in Charlotte
Saturday

when they were snowed under by the
powerful team from the Naval Academy
and again when the University of N. C.
vanquished them on a muddy field by a
one point margin. Guilford and a team
of sailors from Hampton Roads were
both defeated by large scores and V. M.
I. lost to them by a score of 21 to 0.

This last score is interesting because of
the fact that V. M. I. succeeded in win-
ning a 14 to 7 victory from Davidson on
the Saturday before they met State Col-
lege. These scores would scem to indi-
cate that the Wildcats will be defeated
by at least three or four touchdowns. It
must be remembered, however that they
played the Cadets with four regulars out
of the lineup.

The Davidson team will be outweigh-
ed at least 15 pounds to the man, sprob-
ably more than 20 pounds in the line.
With the probable return of Black,
Hammett and LaFar to the lineup, how-
iever, they will be in better shape for this
game than they have for any of the last
three contests.

Our next enemies experienced little
difficulty in whipping V. M. I. last week.
Coach Fetzer's aggregation trounced the
flying Cadets to the tune of 21 to 0. Gur-
ley, at quarter, seemed to bear the brunt
of the attack.

N.C. State.... 21 V.M.I...... 0
V.M.I......- 14 Davidson 7
Looks bad on paper, but cheer up all
e D. C. rooters and take consolation in
the fact that Black, Johnston, LaFar and
Brady were out of the game on account
of injuries, but they will be in with that
old gridiron fight when the Wildcats face
N. C. State Saturday.
*

eooee

Princeton fell before the terrible on-
slaught of West Virginia by the score of
25 to o. Another case of David and
Goliath. . .

Centre College whipped Virginia 49

from which to choose. Rumple espe-
cially has given her stronger opponents |
hard fights in every game and has made

to 7. The University is-finding the go- Win or lose, the” Wildcats expect tOla name for herself: Line-up:
ing rough this year. fight until the last whistle sounds, and | Rumple. Position. Louisiana.
IFetzer’s men will know that they have frwin, L. (2) .. .. .. .. Brake (4)

right - forward |
.. .. Dick (4)

lef: forward !

Football Gleanings

iheen in a scrap. The whole Davidson
student body with their band will ac-iIrwin .. ..
company the team to Charlotte.
1

Happenings of the Past Week

. The probable line-up is as foliose: | Nash (2) .. .. .. .. Houghton (4) |
i invincibl iversity Davidson. Position. _C. State. center |
of Lehigh held he ian ¢ University Davis.......60-+ LE..... Kirkpatrick {Crawford (10) .. .. .. .. Murchison
.. Hammett. .... LT Le eeees Wethers' right guard
+ Spri Romefelt........ sees Floyd Craig (10) .. 2... 0... + Foil (4)
ae is: Springheld o. Brady... .. +--+ Cu... Whitlacker | left euaed
Yale 31 : Maryland 0. LaFar.......--- RG ...... , Young’ Referee: Mr. Miles; scorer:. J. S.
Army 24; Tufts 13 McMaster.......RT.....-- Ripple Brown; time of halves: 15 minutes,
Nave 24 W Va. ‘Wesleyan 6. Douglas......... RE.... Homewood,
Penn. State 10; Pennsylvania o. Spann rete reees OR tenes Gurley INTER-DORMITORY
LaFayette 21; Cornell 2. hn fon RH... Pearson. BASKETBALL SUMMARY
Colgate 7 ; Dartmouth ?. Wieradden ee FB... Murray
Notre Dame 6: ] ndiana 3- or Shepherd. Team. Points. Opponents.

i : barel: d TTT Watts . . 216 86

air amd Les bry anni warts DEFEATS GEORGIA — Geng 00 ay
‘ a . umple.. .. .. .. .. 107 9

Altho the Gen erals made co first wee The championship was determined 01 1So. Wing Chambers... 103 166
braced when their goal line was in Friday, the 31st, Watts winning from|No, Wing Chambers. 77 118
danger. - Georgia, 24-15. After the movies, sev- Louisiana .. .. .. .. 90 197

; * eral anes aw ap pean hulls from Individual Summary (First Ten)

: ae the floor and. Mir. tiles called the teams Roberts , (SV) See ee 68
scoring te ame slingery eld Mened the together with the first whistle, For the = Hall (W) ... .. -. +. 57
game up considerably but every inch of first three minutes it. looked as if Georgia Doubles (G) ......-. 0 47
ground was hotly contested had the edge 6n Watts, but their shots Crawford (R) .. .. .. 42

ee * went wild, and Watts caged the first two" Oltman (W)... 2... 40

: goals of the game. At the end of the Brice (G) .. «0... 38
Sorin Ercan eee OM the first half Warts was leading 12-7. In Freeman (8) .. «2. ++ 35
old block. The Varsity won from the|the second half Finley was changed to Covington (N) .. .. -. 34
Aggies two weeks ago 13 to 12. Henry center and Roberts to forward, and this Mauze (R) .. «2 ee ce 33

S ag . rearrangement seemed to work a great Askew (G) .. 0. 0. 6) 32

Massie, former Davidson fullback, was
in the N. C. State Freshman line-up.
. ee

deal beter. However, after six minutes
of the second half had been played
Georgia had cut down Watts’ lead to
only two points, but after the time out
called for Wood, the team work of
‘Watts counted, and rapidly increased
the lead.

The game was one of the snappiest
and cleanest gamés ever played on the
‘hill, and tho there were quite a few
fouls, all of them were technical, not a
personal foul. being called. The team
work of Watts was the main factor in
her victory; Georgia’s defense was very
strong, but her offense was weak. For
Watts, Oltman and Roberts played the
best game; for Georgia, Chalmers and

N. W. CHAMERS 14;

Furman 21; Citadel 6. S. W. CHAMBERS 13

Our opponents for, the last game on
our schedule also won from Wake Forest
the week before by 39 to 7.

# s e

What proved to be one of the closest
and hardest fought games of the Inter-
dormitory series was won by North
Wing against South Wing by a score of
14 to 13. The game was very exciting
on account of the close score and the
winner was uncertain until the whistle
blew. These two teams came out even
in the series, buth winning two games
apiece. Rumple is also in this class, so
there are three teams tied for third
place. The tie will probably be played
off. Line-up:

The University of Georgia met her
first defeat of the season at the hands of
Auburn. The Plainsmen managed to
score a touchdown in the first minute of
play, as the result of a 65-yard run by
Howard.

° r

“Monk” Younger’s terrible Hampden-

Sidney Tigers licked William and Mary

7 to 3. It looks as if the Presbyteries Wood. The line-up i lows:

are ‘in line fer the Inter Collegiate cham- Wates, e oD onition.. fol “Georgia. North Wing. Position. South Wing.

P P e . om ° Oltman (8) aa .. .» Doubles (2) rown (23) left ‘forward ++ Orman
Wake Forest trounced Sewanee 39 to ,. right forward Covington (8) .. .. .. McCreary (6)

3. ee _Bantists kent hammering the 9 (6) . i eft forwar. a . Wood (6) Cornel lefe forward F @)

center of the line and succeeded in shov- ‘ornelson . . .. .. Freeman (7

ing six touchdowns across. Sewanee Roberts (8) .. ‘center. - Chalmers (2) center

scored a field goal in the first two min- Farmer Brice (3) Bernhardt .. .. .. .. .. .. -. Neel

utes of play but thereafter they never .* ‘right "guard . 3 right guard ;

were dangerous. ° Price... .... tie ieed King (2) Shenck (4) - “left guard .. McKeithen

“ : eft guard

On your feet you Davidson men, Substitutions—Georgia: Tuller for

Show that Wildcat “pep” again;
Drown out N. C. State’s applause, PROGRAM FOR SATURDAY.

And Saturday—fight for D. C.’s cause.”

Pre-Kick- Off Status of Satur-

day Struggle

‘Wood; referee: Mr. Miles; time of
halves: 15 minutes.

Dinner promptly at 12 o'clock.

Report for assembly on battalion pa-
rade ground at 12:30.

Train for R. O. T. C. and others
leaves at 12:50.

Rooms at Selwyn for changing clothes
after parade. ,

Men should have suit cases ready and
properly labelled at Armory by 9 a, m.

Students will sit together.

RUMPLE 24—LOUISIANA 16.

On Wednesday afternoin Rumple de-
feated Louisiana in a hard fought and
. linteresting game to the tune of 24 to 16.
If comparative scores may be relied Each team showed signs of good team-
upon, the Wildcats will be fighting work and accurate passing dye to the
against big odds when they meet the hard games each has played. Rumple
lads from N. C. State College in Char- caged a basket after several minutes of
lotte next Saturday. They are by no play and held the lead the remainder
means ready to concede the victory yet, of the game, altho Louisiana by pretty
however, and a close and interesting shooting held Rumple’s lead to several
game is enpected. team b 4 baskets, and many times threatened to
tzer's team has made a won- pass their opponent's score. These two/novation i iversi i
derful showing in their games thus far. teams have shown remarkable fighting one hundred the nivel ce rriculum,
Only twice have they been defeated ; once spirit altho they are limited in numbers! being enrolled—The Tar Heel.

UNIVERSITY OF N. C.

The Commerce School is quite an in-

TTT eee

THE DAVIDSONIAN, November 6, 1919

~ =
is Ge

Knox and Barnette

Entire New Line of

General Merchandise
Shoes, Hats

& Gents’ Furnishings

ARGONNE
ANEW,
foil

Cluete, Peabody &7Co. Inc. Troy. N.Y.
The name *‘Aryonne’* 1s used by courtesy of the
Argonne S' it Co., — Phitactetnhta

’

A New Line of

The Bank of Davidson

Does Commercial Banking,
Runs a Savings’ Departm'’t.,
Has Lock Boxes For Rent

Your business is solicited

Jeha L. Douglas, Pres., W.. Thompeon, Cah.
3. Lee Sloan, V-Pres.

4. RB. Beard, Assistant Cashier

Schloss Bros. Clothing

| R. S. Johnson Co.

FANCY GROCERIES
and

FRESH MEATS
A SPECIALTY

A Full Line of
Next to Pressing Club) Undertaking Supplies

See Us 7

STOP AND SEE

Cunningham, the Barber

If I can please you tell

others. If I Don’t
please, tell me.

See Us For

Hardware and Farm impliments
Phone 85

For your events. We carrya
full line of Stationery, Huyler’s
Candy, Waterman's Fountain
Pens. Agents for Scholtz, the
Florist.

Our Drinks
Are Unexcelled

Special service given to your
prescriptions.

td

FELLOWS

I am agent for the Ben

Vonde Company, the
Yours truly,

Jetton Drug Co.

largest and best dry clean-

| ing establishment in’ the

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VA.
Perfectly appointed buildings,
spacious grounds, well-balanced
curriculum, strong faculty. For
catalogue address }
W. W. MOORE, D D., LLB. President °

South.

E. N. BOOKER

18 Watts
