The DAVIDSONIAN, May 28, 1919

The Spring and the recent commence-
ment week is largely responsible for the
“Amorous” thread of sentiment in the
following paragraphs. (The Editors).

8S. T. McCloy, BiA., M.A.. X.Y.Z.

“Are you going to stay for Commence-
ment this year?” Ducky was greatly
aninoyed by having so many Freshmen
asking him this embarrassing question.
But then, the Freshmen were not alto-
gether to blame, for who would think,
or even suspect, from his youthful ap-
pearance, that §. T. McCloy was a loyal
alumnus of Davidson College and a
“High Knocker” in the M. A. Club. In
the case of this young man, looks really
are deceiving, for “Ducky” has a store
of wisdom beyond his years and he is a
bright student (he is on the roll of oil
burners), a hard worker and a good
friend to all of us.

Dr. A. R. Craig, D.D., Phe.

At the last initiation of the “D”
Club there was only one man who looked
at ease. Augustus R. Craig was per-
fcctly at home in the conbentional dress
of a South Carolina farmer. "Gustus
got in training for track by giving a
rabbit twenty yards start and catching
it before it got to the end of the cotton
row. Incidentally the farmer by nature
and parson by choice managed to pass
five tickets this spring and thereby get
his M.A. We wish the best of luck to
this worker, sportsman and gentleman
wherever he may go.

Mr. “Whistle” Richard Humphrey,
B.A. (?)

William Guy Humphrey, whoh bears
the name of “Whistle” stamped on his
brass collar, hails from Greenwood,
Miss. ‘Whistle’ earned his A.B, at
Davidson, with the class of 18. He en-
listed immediately in the Marines, saw
action in Paris Island, S. C., and Quan-
tico, and returned to Davidson a cas-
ualty in search of a vocation. He has
won his M.A. this term and the success
that has followed him through David-
son will, without a doubt, be his in the
business world.

Hon. “String Bean” Medskill,
Jackson Springs Village.

“String Bean’? will leave for Jackson
Springs as soon as he gets his “Goat
Skin.” There he will enter the race as
candidate for Sheriff, having observed
the methods of Anderson and “Cop”
Johnson—later in life he aspires to the
mayorship of Jackson Springs.

Rev. Mr. “Bill” Currie, A.B. ?

Professor: Mr. Currie, how did you
get that bump on your head?

Bill: That is where a thought struck
me, Doctor.

So it is with Bill, a good student and
a fine fellow. We predict a great fu-
ture for this lad. When he leaves the
Seminary—there will be many calls
waiting for him from many of our larg-
est (?) churches. Luck to you, old boy.
We Now Introduce You to the Right

Hon. J. H. Patterson, of Moscogee,

Fla. mr |

“Pat,” or most familiarly known as
“Cousin Pepper,” hails from Moscogee,
Fla. This short, dried up, sawed off
speciman of a “Florida Bean” spent a
year in the Marine Corps as a Corporal,
and he always delights to tell of his
days spent in the Corps. From what we
can understand, he had all the men in
“Philly” scared to death for fear he
would work havoc with the hearts of
their dear ones. “Pat” is a man with
a ready wit and a genialty that makes
us glad that he was with us.

Mr. G. M. Robson, of “Birdsville,” is
Next in Order.

George McRea Robson has so well
distinguished himself in the science of
“Bug-ology” here as to merit the name
of “Jay-bird” the Second. Besides this
great accomplishment, Robson is a reg-
ular social “Jazz-hound.” He cries be-
cause there are no more N. C. hearts for
him to break. As he leaves us, we wish
him well in his-new venture. He goes
to Louisiana, there to become correspond-
ing secretary of one of the world’s most
famous matrimonial bureaus.

Professor C. B. Robson, Phd.

Young C. B. Robson, alias “Pat,”
better known as “Chubby Cheeks,”
graduates from “D. C.” at the tender
age of eighteen. As he is too young
yet to go out into the great Arena of
life, next year will find him again in
“Prep” school. He goes to McCallie
School for Boys, where we hope his
“Pugilistic” Irish nature will serve him
well.

of

‘ing the ancient college bell at irregular

THE SENIORS’ OWN

“JUST HATCHED, HASN'T SCRATCHED YET"

We Pall Aside the Curtains to Reveal
Mr. ° Emmy” Flynn, the “Wonder
Kid" From A-T-L-A-N-T-A_ (the
one in Georgia),
Emory Flynn, — the
That's him all over.” It is too bad the
way the ladies like him—they worry
him to death—but we can’t blame them.
One of them got so far as to make him
confess that he was married—but do you
believe that? Ask him; he knows. He
has a weakness for Maxwell cars, and
Sunday night “Dinners” in the country
where he teaches the “Children” their
Sunday school lesson. He is the only
man in college that can mix business,
pleasure, college work, and dates and
get away with it. 2222? No, er, we
don't know why he parts his hair in the
middle—ask him, he knows. But we do
know that he won't tell how many he
invited to commencement.

Georgia! Peachy Georgia! You Do Well
to Send Your Illustrious Hero, Mr.
Robert Brown Cunningham, Esq., to
Our “Scollege.”

In “Bob” we have a man teeming with
energy and vivacity. As manager of the
baseball team this year, “Bob” proved
his right to be called the most wide
awake man on the Hill. His efforts to
have all the men on time to all trains
were untiring, especially on the occasion
when the team left on the early morning
train. A young man of such an active
and enthusiastic temperament should
make a sure place for himself in’ the
business world.

Mr. Hard) Boy) Dendy—dAlso is a
Georgia Peach (Better Known as the
“Cussing Parson.’”’)

Henry Benson Dendy first won fame
as the arch fiend of “Hell Alley,” the
famous Elysian Boulevard of south wing
Chambers. However, he was enticed
from his lair and this year has been dis-
turbing the peaceful rest and studious
habits of third floor North Wing by his
jazzing habits and his fondness for ring-

“Pep” to push it. Luck to “Amo.”
Karl Alexander Turner:

From the land of Cole Blease, cold
beer—no Blease, no beer, “That's “Pee-
Wee.” He hails from the flower bow-
ered city of Winnsboro, or is it Winds-
bere? But whether it's one or the other
it’s in a great old state—now ain't that
right?) And there is no doubt: but that
EAT will live up to the reputation of
his native city down in the land of the
cld Palmetto state. Ask any girl, espe-
cially the one he winked at the night he
was marshal, if he isn't good looking,
and you can just bet that she will be
quick to say, YES. Some say that he is
in love, but this is emphatically denied.
But still he receives many delicately
scented epistles. Who wrote them? = 1
wonder—yes, | wonder, Earl is a Phys-
ics stud but he wouldn't post the grades
until the Fresh. and Sophs had left the
Hill. But he is a rival of Newton, and
we predict unqualifiedly that he will be
a great success in whatever he under
takes.

explained from a look either at him dr
; at his inittls,
winsome — one,
ar
are best left unmentioned. His occupa-
tion is mainly dancing and for the cul-
tivation of this art he has been a faith-
ful student of Greek VI. Besides this
he takes public speaking, drill and  an-
ether ticker and incidentally makes the
honor roll. His’ reputation as a food

ter of inuch concern to the local dis-
persers of hash.

“Rock” in Rack hill,

Joseph Tf, Miller, Junior (very
young), of the little burg of Rock Hill,
in South Calina—is a Gibralter of the
Northern boundary town of the state to
our south. Joe" is a very nice fellow,
and very fine. He has many accomplish-
ments but perhaps the greatest is his
ability ta play field on the unconquer-
able Davidson baseball team. He goes
to home from here to go inte business—
so we wish to direct you to him, for he
has chosen as his motte: “Tf it's any-
thing in insurance, let. ‘Joe’ write it.”
It is good to be sure but, as “Joe” would
put. it, it's better to be insured.” We
wish hin a life of great prosperity and
joy in his new adventure.

Robert Campbell Garth.

Oh girls, listen! Sweet nineteen and
ain't been kissed yet. Sounds fishy, but
honest, it’s true. But he's promised to
reform and has promised five fellows to
write them and describe his experiences
when he first joins-the Cleopatra Club.
What an opportunity oh Fair Maidens
for an evening of bliss in administering
the first degree. Won't you: help out
this poor boy in giving him his finishing
touches on his education? It'll be fine,
that’s sure, for Bobbie's an awful good
looking boy, and has most soulful eyes.
Bobbie's favorite song is “f ain't had no
kisses yet, but when [| get them they'll
be good you bet.” “Phat ain't the song,
but it sounds like it, if you want the
song, write Cellus Cameron—he knows
it. Bob's going to take in New York
with Jasper Cullum this summer, and
don’t you know he'll have a big time?
Be careful, Bob, be careful.

William Alfred Hall, Ir.

Generil. By that name is he known
to all the campus, and by that name
will we vote for him for President when
he runs. General attributes his success
in College to that old (censored). He
is very sad just now though, for as he
says one of his helpers will soon pass
away. He can only sing “Lemon ex-
tract will go fine when July the First
comes round.” As ‘speaker of the even-
ing at the Senior Banquet his closmg
words were: “Your names are inscribed
in golden characters upon my heart by
the hand of love.” That shows he's an
orator. General’s got a girl, too—way
out in Oklahoma, an@ he is going to get
a hair cut and a shave and pawn his
clothes and go out to see her. He hopes

.

OW PL Heart-Breaker.”

O. P. (alias) William S. Hart is one
of the few boys in college who knows
more about some things than you do
but does not advertise, the fact. We
never have found out why, but he likes
a good cook that is single. Perhaps you
will know by the time. you read this.
However, if you don't, she does, so don’t
worry about that any more. We have
ane guess as to who looks most dignified
in a dress suit of any of the marshals
and we would bet our chance to make
the punctially roll on that one guess,
that we are right when we say that it
is he. ‘
Gordon P. Scott, of Braukneal, Virginny

Scott is famous around Davidson as
soldier, Greek stud, and ladies’ man—
and probably. greatest as ladies’ man.
From the early days of childhood when
he was mascot for the senior class of
Mitchell College, he has grown up in
the atmosphere of feminine environment
and in the witchery and graces of their
smiles, Some one recently asked this
“Lady-killer” where he was loved best
by the ladies—imagine the startled ex-
pression on the face of ‘this friend as
Scott laconically replied, “Around my
neck.” Several times of late Scott has
been out way ‘late into the night, to re-
turn in the early watches of the morning
with the disheveled expression of one in
melancholic mania. A friend followed
this fitful Hamlet one night and declares
that Scott was seen to tear his hair and
to cry out in great desperation, “Water,
water may be fine. But give me Haig
and Haig all the time!’ Psychologist
and Pathologists who have had the case
in hand have reached the conclusion that
Scott is the victim of great mental de-
pression due to the approach of July 1.
We Now Present Neal “Y” Pharr for

Your Consideration.

“xX. Y. Z.," “Xenphon” and “New
York” are a few of the various cogno-
mens applied to this versatile youth
from the “Queen City.” The
origin of the first is unknown. the sec-

hours. His chief claim to fame rests
upon his invention of a new way to pass
a Re-Exam. on Soph. Bug, being unable
to pass it in the regular way on account
of deficiency in English grammar. From
present indications he bids fair to be a
preacher with a very forceful flow of
lingua.
Mr. James Jay (Bird) Love.

“Amo”—the man who made the an-
nual bi-annual, James Jay(bird) Love.
Ain't that a name? But still he is proud
of it. His Joviah and rotund countenance
has often graced the festal board as can
be proven by his extended waist line
When it comes to laziness—c’est finis.
“Amo” has been to only ten chapels in
four years. We wonder how he does it.
But listen, ladies. He is a bear in a
chair, for he can love like he can fight,
and, by the way, he was a Plattsburg
wonder—Second Lieut. of Infantry, in
the §. A. T. C. If he could get a de-
gree by sleeping he would be the best
educated man in the world. Yet after
all has been said, “Amo” will be a suc-
cess in life, for he has ability and the

ond came from his early prosperity for
Greek literature and the last is easily].

There are other handles
(censored) put to this remarkable ge-
nius but although quite applicable. still

concealer is well deserved and is a mat-

“Joddie Aliller,” the Man That Put the

for her to return as Mrs. General, and
they will live forever after ‘Where the
walls are paved with Jasper, and where
the river Shannon flows.”
Edgar Allen Woods.
Successor to Poe-—last of the Chinese
triumvirate—such is Edgar, the great
Boddhist. But he reformed his ways;
and went over to Hellenism recently—
harkening to the voices of beauty and
of love. Correcting Bible papers has
been his hobby and his delight, but woe
unto him should he ever meet one of
those Fresh or those Sophs whom he
flunked. But now he is like the raven
and will do it nevermore. Lf you are
ever in doubt about how much wine will
make you drunk—ask Edgar—he knows,
Robert Brookes Peters, Jr.
Pete—the ladies’ delight, and the pride
Jof Tarboro, He is quoted as inscribing
an epistle to a petite damsel of the town
of his nativity recently in which ne said:
“Now, that | have the reward of iny
four years’ struggle (little + struggling
Pete ever did. For struggling ask Gen-
eral Hall) | expect to soon return to
the place of my parental domicile, aid |
when [| do | shall journey over to your
house in my horseless chariot and ask you
to be my chauffeur on the Highway of
Life.” But Pete is changeable as is shown
by his. changing his pie from first to last
during his courses, so beware, young
lady, beware.
Mr. Jasper Welcome Hasting Cullum,
Esq.

Welcome Hastings Cullum, yours in
“Bull-Sheviki,” here we are girls. He
is a. beauty and a parlor snake with it.
His is a tender and susceptible heart
roaming through the desert of life and
when it cones upon an oasis of. love it
bubbles forth sweet nothings in the sky
kissing palms, We have an idea that
Jasper" is in love—do you remember
Poe's Hellen? Watch the Devidsonian
for announcements. He has the record
of never missing a single Saturday night's
performance at Keith's. ‘That is not all,
either. He hails from Aiken, S. C., and
other Cullums are to follow. He is po-
ing to New York this summer as he pre-
dicts a long dry spell after July 1. ‘Jas-
per" has a smile always on his face (no
cosmetigs) and a friendly word for all.
Professor “Cruel Howl,” the Bolsheviki

Leader.

Clewell Howell is our most ardent
and radical aspirart. Scotland Yard de-
tectives have identified him as leader of
the Davidson “Bolsheviki.” From. the
time he raised such a “Cruel Howl”
from our conservative pastor and fac-
ulty by introducing female Camouflage
into a Junior speaking concert, this radi-
cal socialist has lost himself more and
more in his “Red” revolutionary ideas.
The most manifest revelation of this fe-
rocity of purpose has developed in con-
nection with his assistancy in Biology
these spring months, ‘The said Howell
has been observed to penetrate forth and
yaze upon the stars in broad daylight.
to pace the campus walks bareheaded,
and several students have observed a light
burning in the wee hours of the morn-
ing, and a book of Astrological Biology,
with incendiary notes, in a (peculiar
printed handwriting have been picked
from his desk. ‘The latest developments
have been the startling growth of a small
threatening, nervous black cloud “scarce
the size of a man’s hand” upon the up-
per lip. “The skilled detectives have been
carefully investigating the case. Addi-
tional evidence has very recently been
unearthed which may prove a culmina-
tion and solution from this most mys-
terious case. Early one morning said
Howell was found in the Biology de-
partment gloating exultantly over an old
empty bird's nest and wildly exclaiming
to himself, ‘Phere it is, gentlemen.
There it is, gentlemen. I have found
it, | have found it, and shall have it!”

T(edy) R(ocosevelt) Alexander.

“Alec” is an all-round college fellow.
He is a French stud, Literary Society
“Bull artist,” track man, and lady killer.
“Alec” is one of those fellows who stakes
his claim and never leaves it until
achieved. ‘They say ‘tis the “Old
Scotch” in him. Te was on one of our
commencement nights that he was heard
in ardent debate with a “Fair one” to:
reply, “No, it wasn’t blue, it was green.
You are too green to see it.” The wit:
ness testified that it was only “Alec”
track training that enabled him to “beat
it” without suffering serious casualties.

(Continued on Page 9)
