THE DAVIDSONIAN, November 20, 1919

i . . . :
their duty to see the Wildcats in action | straights from W C. Hodgin, 6-1, 7-5:

. . | PEANUT P ARCHER in Winston canvassed the greater part of Roberts went forward one winning from

The Sel: Hotel the college with a pair of shoes on Friday Calhoun, 6-1, 6-4: Harris struck defeat
iwyn | T. H. SPENCE, Editor night. Their object was to exchange the in Gordon McKelden: Liston got two

shoes for the necessary sheckels to enable !while Fuller was winning the other, 6-
them to make the journey to the metrop- 3, 4-6, 6-3: High pocket Steibich put
olis of the tobacconists. The shoes were Fraser out of running, 6-1, 6-1: Bradley
all O. K. with one exception: they were gave Harvey only one game: Hamilton
not mates, got a win from Miller, 6-3 7-5; Mauze
lost to A. C. Ormand 6-3, 1-6, 6-2, and

Extract from local Bulletin Board: Boulware closed the initial round by

JND winning 6-1, 6-1 from Knox.

One Lakeside tennis racket made by’ In two extra-inning sets Davidson
a, g. Spalding and bro. on new athletic sent Mahood to the wall, 10-8, 11-9.
field where Private hard Boy plays. This was the hardest fought contest thus
Come to No, 10 Chambers and describe far played. Martin stayed in with a 6-3,
it and give liberal reward amounting to 9-7, win from Gilchrist; Spence drew a

FIRE PROOF

Located in thc heart
of Charlotte, conven-
ient to railroad sta-
tions, street cars, busi-
ness and shopping cen-

Atttomobites may be the poetry of motion
—untilsomething busta—then it's blank verse

LOTS OF GO AND PEP

ters. cost of racket and get same. 6-3, 6-4 win over Price. Murphy got . :
Table d’hote lunches, COME AT ONCE. thru safely ; playing C. M. Streibich; A.|| 2 Our new Fall fashions.
12:00 to 2 P. M.; EURO- DON’T WANT IT LEFT ON OUR(C. Ormand made Gaither go, 6-2, 10-8,
: ca) . 3 HANDS. ‘ins order to win; Morris had little

Zeb Morris announces that he has lost . .
PEAN. the balance off his gun. Liberal reward Davidson Poster Adv, Co. trouble with Matthews, 6-0, 6-2; Hall
ered and stions asked. i - came thru over Wilkinson, 6-3, 6-2; W.
Rooms $1.50 and up: offered ine no quessons aS Freshman: “Yes this sweater cost fif- G. McKeldin did nor hurt himselff to
with bath $2.00 and up. | The meeting of the Phi Society, Sat- cet? dollars and I d sure like to have ajwin from Liston by a twelve to nothing
urday night, was kept a profound se- nickle of it now. count and Bradley came out winner over
Our system of artesian | cret from che most of its members. | J. M. McCutchen.

water flowing through the oo.

te g g It seems that the coal’ strikers struck

building. a tough proposition.

goods this season—the only
problem is to keep our lines
full, to get the good stuff we've
ordered. Buy now and you
will have no regrets.

.
He: “You say you phoned at noon,

was-the night or day operator in ”
Him: -1 don’t know.” *

PLAY TENNIS

or WITH

Peanut Parcher Bureau,

| Now every night we hear , ;
H. C. LARZELE, Prop. Those dark-town sbrutters brawl. Winston-Salem, N. C.

By Leased Postal Card Service.

Fresh Greene to Boney, who has on! Over one-half of Winston $s population .
one coat and is carrying another; | Wears one of Davidson's colors (all the
al 3 tos

[ezsaszsenere: @ “What ‘tv you got an extra coat for?” time.)

sos

. > i , a APES ou
‘ | { 9 N “Boney: “So I can put it on when the |. Prominent freshman announces they
]

. eayi vas ao jhave a pasture at home larger than!
one I'm wearing wears out. Prince Albert. Park. _
Since it’s gotten cold its a choice of Big Gunn loses. his hat and’ overcoat.
: keeping, your windows up and_ freezing Two fresh nearly wade into picture
Another shipment or keeping them down and suffocating. oN wash should have been labeled
‘olored.
9
of young men’s
Overcoats in the
very latest models
at $25.00, $29.50,
$39.50 and $49.50.

—— ee

Spalding Tennis Equipment ;
Balls, Rackets, Nets, White

Flannel Trousers, etc.

* 94S. Tryon

Fullequipment for men and wamen, including
tennisesuthing. Send jor catdlag,

A. G. SPALDING & Bros.
THE COMMISSARY

CHARLOTTE, N.6.

=

Speed up and get your pick
early.
No trouble about selling

Dick and Hall argue over whether a
rtain car is a Cadallac or a Limousine.
“Which way is the Y 2?" was the dom-
inant question of the day.. |

If you have anything for the peanut
parcher mail it to us; we like to get a ce
letter now and then as well as any one.

] wonder if there is a pied piper in
the band. There is urgent need for] In days gone by some one has said

such an artist in Geergia according to] “It pays ro advertise”
advices from those who room there. With your permission may we add ecocoe
: That now economize-

“Darkness Visible’ had spot-light il-} Ing pays quite well, so why not
lumination compared with second floor} Get a bunch at one crack?

prea rrr rr ttid it titi tit rtrd

|Wasssseees Seccseedesesssssssccosccossonnases:

a
a
Belk Brothers 4) Georgia after nightfall. Such as the following short story. E | di
. RY ar
SESSESSSTS ST SSSSTSTaSesaesassTe: Ta . . . noe . _ € pleased to announcc
McGirt busts forth into the commer- “WHAT'S IN A NAME? h . dditi
ee cial world with a system of “firsts” in the that, in addition to our al-
‘line of photographs. Why don't some- oy . : ,
: . A ature in’ Nomenclature. . eheae
Shoe Repairing ' ‘one sell the likenesses of prominent men n Adventure ae iNouen ready modern facilities, we have
5 . 3? . ae
on the campus: Bill and [were waiting at the post- secured the services of a Commer-
Why don’t the picker of the famous office; Bill was excitedly rattling d five-
hy don't the 4 ‘ dollar bil! in his pocket, when he turned : cae
and dura- «, rican” foot Sh eieaasaenaae nO APR cial Artist in . Jj.
For neatness All-American” football tcam, of Bul to me suddenly and said: “Jack, what the person of Mr J

jletin Board fame, try his hand at an all- did you think of Keith's last Night? B. Mallard, and are prepared to har.

star aggregation of Campus football

“Te was Toney,” | replied and “JM orth

bility send your shoes tO stars? “We would suggest Big Brice and irre . a
(Frank McLeod as gate-keepers; Mea- Moore than the Price. Las V've seen in nish promptly original sketches
‘cham and Morris should go good at Ww bs t nen sad Bil bat ve wt ; dd
: aera . . Ln Peeks,” continue ill, but, yus her an lesions .
the Shu Fixery, Charlotte, Burd McA Die ae ine tackles would we saw Jap Cumming thru the Groves | ig for all classes of com
probably sears ; : “lon the (ill with a Loug Guan on his ial
- vans as: na’ , . mercial work, such as trad
Cc ton by all ane should draw the as shoulder ; Jap said he'd sure get big game | ’ € marks,
N. C. signment at quarter. just out of town in the Woods; a Hart, monograms, book covers, signa-
Joe Walker purchased a “memory” Crane, Drake or Martin fpr instance.
oe : ‘ Just then we saw a Green fresh ape tu: : :
Pe ennnnrares a aj aie saw i res, etc. Designs in one or more
W.C. & 6. N. NEEL, Agents ith consisting “ Several books, ne | proaching, who offered us some Graham , 8
month or so ago. Recently ne bic’ crackers and we took a Sample. Just colors. I

quite enthusiastic over his work and was

30 and 36 Chambers ‘convinced that he was a good remember- hen a, Chalmers Carr rushed by and |

‘er, As usual however, even the mighty
fall, and now the namesake of the genius '
_of that famous smoking tobacco, has for
gotten where he left his books and thus Tennis Tournament Finals Will
his course is rudely broken into. Soon be Reached.

r)

SUES SSasaSsesaceasacaenes.

(To be continued.)

ssa

BradyPrinting Co.

Statesville, N. C.

frrrrritt

There is at least one boy at Davidson’ ‘The singles of the matches of the Fall :
who does not cuss. His identity is un-,Tournamest are rapidly entering their!
known. One night last week as he was twilight zone, with the early rounds dis-
ascending the stairway of Georgia, re- posed of. the finalists and near finalists |
ports say there was such a crash as is are ready for the concluding contests.
heard when re-locating is being done.: The draw threw Hall, Hawkins, and
When he picked himself up, probably Spence in different brackets while Hall |

The College Printers

piece by piece he gave a long whistle and and Gordan McKeldin have several | Inquiries solicited and prompt attention
‘left. rounds to go before meeting. Hit
sos pocket Streibich is showing up we
If you want good printing There is compensation in all things.’among the new men. Martin, formerly guaranteed.

During the present sugar shortage cer- of Auburn, and Hawkins look like a
tain local boarding houses are serving strong doubler combined.
candy as proxy for sugar. | Davidson beat Manning, 7-9, 6-1, 7-
(5: Wyman fell to Mahood, 6-0, 6-07,

Second floor Georgia has formed an Bobby Long took the count of 6-0, 6-0,
astronomy class for the study of the stars. from Martin; while Gilchrist defeated

and quick service, BRADY
IS THE MAN TO DO

FES 5 a Sma SSS O STOO DOT TSOOCOTSSC DTS TSC TS OSC EDOCSSES.

know just under which of, the, above | Leod’s measure, 6-1, 6-1: Miley fell be-
16 Chambers ,heads the exploits of Heiser and Jen- | fore Matthews, 6-0, 6-2: Morris won

| nings come; anyway these two gentle- ‘over Bostic, 6-1, 6-0: Wilkinson de-
men, laboring under the idea that it was | feated Forgey, 6-3, 6-2: Hall got two .

IT. This class meets every day from 1 till 2 Gibson, by the same score: Cunningham
‘in the afternoon. John D. Wiley an- ‘eliminated Woolfok, at , 6-0: i P. Or- P RESBY TERIAN STAN DARD

| nounces he can tell the difference be- mand sent Bethen to the stands in two
. i] tween the pleiades and the milky way love affairs: Price out Hollingworth out
ORDERS SOLICITED now. 6-0, 6-0: Spence barely beat Fewell 6-3. PUB LISHING CO.

. _ 7-5: Hawkins took two from Shields. 6-

; HH} “Get the coin somewhere ; berrow, ,3, 6-1: Murphy went thru Adams 6-1, TTE

ATTHECOMMISSA Y N|beg, steal or save... .’ Editorial in 6-1: C. M. Steibich won over C, E. CHARLO » N. C.

i last weeks Davidsonian. We don't;Hodgin 6-4 6-3: Gajther thok Mc- 216 N. TRYON ST. PHONE 643

(AE I
