The DAVIDSONIAN. April 23, 1919

Capt. Morrison Gives
Interesting Account
of Piedmont Battery

The Y. M.C. A. had an unusual priv-
ilege last Sunday night in hearing Capt.
Keid Morrison, of the Piedmont Battery.
Captain Morrison was a star baseball
player when he attended Davidson, and
is one of Davidson most loyal alumni.
He gave a graphic account of the work
of the Piedmont Battery over there.

After a short preparatory course at
Fort Sims, the Battery was sent to Eng-
land. ‘The convoy took a route as far
north as Iceland in order to avoid the
submarines. “Che landing was made at
Liverpool; but the battery svon went on
to France, landing at La Havre. From
there he was sent to a training camp at
Coetquidan and the men were given an
intensive course on the use of the French
75s. Just before the St. Mihiel drive the
Piedmont Battery was sent to the right
end of the salient. Captain Morrison re-
lated some very interesting incidents
about the trip to the front. Owing to
the aeroplanes of the enemy, after the
Battery neared the front all the march-
ing was done at night, and the Battery
remained under cover of woods or de-
serted villages during the day. The anti-
aircraft guns, according to Captain Mor-
rison, did not seem to be of much real
aid, other than keeping the enemy's
planes up at a high altitude. As the ex-
plosion of their charge disturbed the
air, attacking airplanes would have to as-
cend,

After a few days the Battery was
transferred to the right of the Argonne
sector and was engaged in the Argonne
drive. In this so many horses died
through lack of provender and overwork
that their number was reduced from one
hundred and twenty-six to about thirty.
On account of this crippled condition
the Battery was again changed to the
left end of the St. Mihiel salient. The
village which the Battery occupied was
Hannonville. This village had been va-
cated by some industrious Germans who
had cultivated a fine crop of vegetables.
These were gladly eaten by the Ameri-
cans, who had been living almost entirely
on canned gocds.

There was no continued fighting going
on in this section, except for an occa-
sional barrage fire. Captain Morrison
said that the gun fire was done almost
entirely -by maps. When he was told
to fire upon a certain position, he cal-
culated the distance and the direction
from the map; for usually he could not
even see the place which he was to fire
upon. After some weeks of inaction, Cap-
tain Morrison was told to hold the Bat-
tery in readiness to advance at any time,
but on the following day the armistice
was declared. Later it was found that
the Germans had concealed a strong
force in front of Hannonville which
would have almost certainly resulted in
heavy losses to the Piedmont Battery if
they had advanced.

After advancing into the surrendered
territory the Battery was finally recalled
and reached America again the latter
part of March.

RELICS.

Sophomore Banquet Was

Held Thursday Night

Class of '21 Had Great Time, Credit
to Mgr. McKelden.

The Soph Banquet came off in great
style Thursday night. The whole occa-
sion was a glorious success. “The big
seven-passenger cars took the. boys to
Charlotte. leaving Davidson a little af-
ter two o'clock, thus enabling them to
see the Virginians go down in defeat be-
fore the Wildcats, Davidson's nine.

The game was a good omen, and when
the thirty-eight guests took their seats
at eight o'clock in the Selwyn banquet
hall everyone was in the highest spirits.
The musiciatis were unfortunately late,
but came in about the middle of the
feast.

The menu started auspiciously with
oyster cocktail, celery and olives. ‘Ihe
other courses followed rapidly, as the
whole aggregation was hungry. Breaded
brook trout with tartar sauce received
undivided attention. Next came roast
young turkey with delicious dressing.
mashed potatoes and green peas. Fruit
salad and cold ham followed. Ice cream
and cake finished the sustantial part of
the entertainment.

While the last dishes were being clear-
ed away by the host of butlers, some
countenances up and down the line took
on a strained expression and there was
some whispered speculation as to the na-
ture of demi tasse. This turned out to
be black coffee. Cheese and saltines were
served with it.

Those of the strained countenance be-
came uneasy, Cop Johnston, toastmaster,
rose to the occasion. Cop began with the
lines, “The stag at eve had drunk his
fill,” and after fitting the sentiment to
the occasion wound up with an adjuca-
tion to have a great time. Joe Miller,
president of the student body, gave his
toast to the class, saying that every class
that amounted to anything has a Soph
banquet. Brooks Peters, president of the
Senior class, next rose and told how the
classes of ‘19 and '21 were closer than
any of the others, All this was rather a

| Quality and Service

Who Wants a Poor Thing Right on Time ?
Who Wants a FINE Thing TOO LATE?

The best printing oblainable and a service
just as good. We give both quality and
service and charge for both. ‘The service
is generally as valuable as the effectiveness
of the work done. Let us convince you

Engraved Work a Specialty

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO.
CHARLOTTE (Phone 643) NORTH CAROLINA

C. J. MATTBEWS, Representative

We Feature

All Military Publications

And carry the most complete line of

Books, Stationery and Gifts 4

In North Carolina

BROCKMANN’S

210 South Tryon St., CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Mail Orders a Specialty

A. H. Fetting |Gentlemen!

When in Need of

Tonsorial Work
Give Us a Trial

Manufacturer of

Greek Letter
Fraternity Jewelry

reflection on Henry Spann, president and| 2 43 N. Liberty St., Baltimore, Md.

representative of '20. After laying the
blame for the failure of his class to have
a banquet on the war, he admitted that
‘21 is a wonderful class, and recalled to
mind that it was nurtured under the pro-
tecting wing of '20. Price, on behalf of
the Freshmen then rose and in touching
and passionate words thanked the class
of '21 for what they have done for the
Fresh.

Lewis Schenck, Soph president, pro-
posed a toast to the visitors and to Jim
McKeldin, manager of the banquet. Jim
being called upon stated the purpose of
to the banquet to draw the class to-
gether and arouse class spirit.

Cop was now in his element. He call-
ed on different men, prepared and un-
prepared, for speeches, giving each one
a send-off in eloquent language. Another
half hour was spent in jokes, toasts and
witticisms. Cop was having the. time
of his young life. He was a most excel-

The Smithsonian Institution “ought lent toastmaster, and kept things going
to begin getting ready for an interesting] from beginning to end. Professor Reed,
permanent exhibit of corkscrews——De-] faculty representative, closed with the

troit News.

Graduation tolls the knell of parting

day;
The busted herd winds slowly o'er
the lea;
The Graduate homeward takes his hap-

py ys
And leaves the Freshman Math. to
you and me.
—Not by Thomas Gray.

speech of the evening. He said he came
to eat, not to speak, but he did both very
well,

After’a yell for the class and one for
Manager McKeldin, the banquet dis-
banded and sought entertainment else-
where. With Cop master of ceremonies,
and McKeldin to make arrangements it
is no wonder that the class of twenty- one

has had a Soph banquet that it will not
soon forget.

At the same place with new equipment

Hood Norton
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Spcciat Designs and Estimates
Furnished on

Medals and Rings for Athletic
Meets, Etc.

THE WAR IS OVER

But We Continbe to Deliver

THE BEST FRESH MEAT

PHONE ORDERS
SOLICITED

White’s Market

Phone 25-W Cornelius, N. C.

Next to Post Office

The Bank of Davidson

Columbia Theological DAVIDSON, N.
Seminary Does Commercial Banking,
Columbia, South Carolina Runs a Savings’ Departm'’t.,

Has Lock Boxes For Rent

Your business is selicited Y

For information and catalogues
write the president

Rev. Dr. Thornton Whaling

