4 _ Ihe DAVIDSONIAN, March 12, 1919

Listen! Alamni!

Commencement is only a bit over two

With the Alumni
: months off. It will be May 25-28 in-

Rev. S. Browne Hoyt, ‘13, has re-| Clusive. “The war has interfered with
cently been installed as pastor of the] those reunions of recent years, But now
Presbyterian church at Phoebus, Va. the Kaiser has been licked and that glad-
Rev. Hal R. Boswell, '12, and Chaplain! some discharge is in your pocket. Make
Eugene Alexander, '13, assisted in the} plans to attend this commencement, and
service, Mr, Alexander left a few days| get into communication with your class-
after for work overseas, mates and fellow alumni! Make this a

. ’ . big alumni reunion!

Rev, R. S. Eskridge, '97, has re-| It has been years since you have seen
moved from Phillipi to Buckhannon, W.| many of your old classmates. You have
Va. lost trace of many of them since you
. graduated. But they are going to be

Rev. F. A. Barnes, ‘95, of Moores-| here at commencement! Youu have not
ville, has gone to Schoolfield, Va. kept up with the changes on the campus,

‘ * e in all probability. Come and see them.

Rev. N. G. Stevens, ’08, who has and hear of the plans the old college has
spent several years in mission work on for her fwture! Many of the Sof ad.
the Congo, is now pastor of the James| men will be here with their tales of ad-

Lees Memorial Church, Louisville, Ky.) venture and of how they licked the Hun.
1 1 # , Four attended Junior Speoking. It will

he great. to see and hear these veterans,
with their European experiences. Be-
HIN preparations now by packing, one end
of that old suitease! Write The David-
sonian that you expect to be here!

* 4

+ ‘

The following Davidson men have
registered with the American University
Union in Paris:

(From December 9, 1918, to January
4. 1919):

Capt. Leon Candler, ‘07, 328th In-

fantry. Lieut. Woodrow McKay, ex-'15, has
Capt. K. L. Elliott, ‘14, 318th Field| recently returned from overseas. He
Artillery. will soon resume his pre-war position in
Lieut. S$. G. Love, ‘10, Medical] New York.
Corps. '
Capt. FL M. Mack, ‘10, 118th In-] Lieut. Alexander ‘Vaylor, ex-‘12, of
fantry. Morganton, N. C., has recently received
Lieut, W. H. Sloan, ‘10, 307th [n-] citation for the Distinguished Service
fantry. Medal, for bravery in action. Lieuten-

Pvt. Jolin M. McBride, 16, 74th Co.,
oth Marines.

(From January 4, tgtg, to February
15. tYytg):

Lieut. J. FP. McClerkin, ex-'20, 324th

ant ‘Laylor has been in’ the -Engineers
Corps, and it was while engaged in con-
struction work acar Bellicourt, Septem-
ber, 1y18, under fire from the enemy's
guns, that his party distinguished them-

Infantry. _ [selves for galiantry by completing the
Lieut, Woodrow McKay, ex-'15, Avi-] task.
ation. .
Lieut. CR. ileox, ‘11, Fie - . - oa . .
tillery t. C. R. Wilcox, “11, Field Ar Lieut. A. S. McNeil, Jr. ex-'18, of

* the Aviation Service, from overseas, has
been discharged and has returned to his
home in Orange, “Texas.

t F

Capt. John Watson Moore, ‘12, of
‘Taylorsville, N.C.) graduated — from
Davidson at the age ot 20. While a
student he was an honor roll man for a
year and a half, vice-president of the
Mumenean Society, vice-president of his
class, and a marshal. He also took great
interest in athletics, being on the class
football, basketball and track teams. He
ivas also Physics and Mathematics as-
sistant, his favorite haunt being the lab-
oratory. After leaving Davidson he be-
came principal of Winston-Salem High
School. When the war ca.ne he enlist-
ed as a private, but in two months was
promoted to second lieutenant, Co. 113
FL A., Sevier Branch, Camp — Sevier,
Greenville, S$. C. He went to France,
returned as captain) to Camp Meade,
duty, having belonged to the New York Md., and is now with the gist FLA. in
Naval Reserve previous to hostilities. Camp Custer, Mich.

For some time he was stationed in New " ‘

York as a gunnery instructor for officers] No one in the whole student body took
and men of the new navy. Later he was! such an interest in all tines as did Capt.
transferred to submarine chaser service,| James Cunningham Harper, ’t5. He
in which he saw active duty during the] was a hard student, a good athlete, and
winter of 1917-18. He was rated as} an unconquered ladies’ man. He be-
first gunner’s mate at the time of his| longed to the Orchestra, was leader of
death. He had passed examinations for] the Glee Club, was secretary of the Y.
a commission but did not receive his com-| M. C. A.. on the Class and Varsity
mission because of a slight defect in his} track team, in class baseball two years,
eyesight. was supervisor and critic of the Philan-

His funeral was held Sunday after-| thropic Society, on the Magazine staff
noon, February 16, 1919, at St. Paul’s| two years, also exchange editor of the
Church, Eglewood, N. J., and his body] Magazine. He took an M. A. in Eng-
interred in the Brookside cemetery, Egle-| lish at the University of North Carolina,
wood. He was buried with military hon-| later going in business in Greensboro.
ors, services being conducted by Dr.] In 1917 he joined the first R. O. T. C.
Fleming James. at Fort Oglethorpe, receiving a second

bd * ° lieutenancy, 323rd) Infantry, Co. 1,

D. L. Mahood, ex-’21, is teaching in] Camp Jackson, In 1918 he was placed
St. Paul’s Preparatory School, in Balti-| in charge of an S, A. T. C. unit at
more, Md. He expects to return to Da-}| Washington and Lee as captain, where
vidson next fall. he has remained until now.

George French Worth, 11,

Davidson friends and alumni will hear
with deep regret and sorrow of the death
of George French Worth, 1, in’ the
Naval Hospital at New London, Conn.,
on the morning of February 14, 1y19.
Mr. Worth had been in the hospital
from the beginning of October, 1918,
suffering, from successive attacks of in-
Huenza, pneumonia, and endocarditis, the
last causing his death.

Worth was well known to Davidson
alumni, He came to Davidson from
Creskill, No J. and graduated in’ the
class of tot. He is remembered here
as being a favorite with his classmates.
He made a good record in his studies,
and is particularly remembered for his
active participation in the work of Phil-
anthropic Literary Society.

At the beginning of the war, Mr.
Worth enlisted in the Navy for active

Smart, Stylish Suits
FOR YOUNG MN

We have received by Express

100 SUITS

from the foremost makers of Men’s Fine Clothes.

The Latest Styles and Fabrics

We hope to have the opportunity of showing you

——EVERYTHING IN MEN’S WEAR-----

ED. MELLON CO.

See me if you are looking for the very BEST

HOME MADE CAKES, PIES
CANDY & SANDWICHES
CIGARS, CIGARETTES
CHEWING GUM &
COLD DRINKS

GEO. H. BEALL, JR.

Exclustve Agents for

“

A. J. REACH & CO’S.

ATHLETIC GOODS

BALLS, MITS. STOCKINGS, BATS
_ AND GLOVES

Come In and Look Them Over

F. A. THOMAS
18 Rumple

L. B. LONG
HEAVY AND FANCY GROCERIES |,

EVERYTHING GOOD TO EAT —

CANDIES, FRUITS AND PEANUTS
A SPECIALTY

Farm Produce Bought and Sold
