The DAVIDSONIAN| peanut PARCHER

T. H. SPENCE, Editor

D. W. ROBERTS .......... cece cece eee ete eenee Editor-in-Chief

5 ap Oa OF \-)-) 2 Cn: Managing Editor

J. R. BOULWARE, JR... ... ce cee eee teen tenes Assignment Editor

L. B. SCHENCK ............ Adee eee e en eeeseeeeees Athletic Editor

J. C. McCASKILL 20.0.0 1. cece cence eee nee ene es Alumni Editor

S. H. ASKEW ..... 00. c ccc cece ce cece eee nene Associate Athletic Editor

D. M. CHALMERS .........cce ee cece teen erences Exchange Editor

L. G. CALHOUN 2... ccc ccc cee cee e ene nees Y. M. C. A. Editor

‘A, L. WILSON . 00. cec cece eee c cence eect cnet een tenes Social Editor

J. M. GASTON, JR... eee cece eee ee ene eee n ees Literary Editor

T. H. SPENCE. ... cece cece ee eee eee “See e cece ee eneneeee . Joke Editor

C. J. MATTHEWS. ... 0. eee cence renee Business Manager

L. L. McALLISTER 2.0.2.0... 00ers Circulation Manager

C,H. LONG occ cc ccc ec cee cee eee eee enn ennee Assistant Manager

T. H. WILSON 20... cc eee eee en nes Assistant Manager If you don’t like these little jokes
A. M. MITCHELL 2.0... ccc ccc cee eee ees Assistant Manager And their dryness makes you groan,

Just strall around occasionally
With some good ones of your own.

—_——

“One little kiss,” she sang,
I tried to kiss her “but she said

“You awful boy, I'll knock you dead.”
And not wishing to die | ceased to try
To kiss her,

R. McILWAIN
E. H. TUFTS

J.M. RICHARDS

B. B. BRITENHIRT
A. M. MITCHELL
D. L. MAHOOD

“What do you mean?” "Twas T began

‘Yo that infuriated miss.

“You asked and I but offered you a
kiss.”

She looked and said disdainfully; for
me quite painfully,

“That was a song.”

EDITORIAL
ee — — eee
Gee Whiz!
Let’s Give Fifteen for Coach Crayton.
1f the Greater Davidson Club keeps up the pace it has started, we predict
Davidson having a student body of cight hundred in near future—anyway
“Watch Davidson Grow.”

Some Crowd.

So reader, dear,-remember,

As along these lines you glance,

And if in any way you see perchance
Something to you that seems quite new
This is a paper.

DAVE ROBERTS SICK.

——

Don't mind making suggestions for
this department. We won't follow them
anyway, so no harm will be done.

We regret very much to announce that Dave Roberts, the Editor-in-
Chief of the Davidsonian, is still sick in the Hospital, Wilmington. “Dave”
contracted a case of typhoid fever in the middle of the summer—he was thought, he Anci
practically well until about two weeks ago when he had a relapse. At present) Hoe are he toon ef last year's an:
he is doing nicely—but will be unable to return to college until sometime in! | it oteer all. :

October. Members of the staff will carry on his work until he comes. We
hope he will soon be entirely well, for we need him bad, in the various activities

of the college. ’

i Fresh, do you think that this place
is dead? Sec Mount Mourne, kid.
See Mount Mourne. .

Personally we. are not worrying in

. ithe least but how in the mfchief are
j i s a. greater enroll- . '
‘As the Davidsonian goes to press the college record shows a. greater ‘they geing to run the “Western Mo-

ment than ever in the history of the college. “The Greater Davidson Club had , vies" without saleons.
as its goal 400 students. This number has been passed sometime ago, and in-
dications are that several more will be here. We hope to be able to announce
the exact number in the next issue—which will be a great surprise for the
friends of the college.
Most of the excess is due to a large Freshman class. They are a fine look- We know an awful good one on
ing set of fellows, coming from a wide and representative part of the entire prech Brown, but since he objects to
country. The college, faculty and student body extend to them a hearty wel- seeing his name in print in any form
come. We are glad they are to be a part of us, and we welcome them. twe won't publish it.

THE LARGEST ENROLLMENT.

—————

Sept. g—Fresh Hodge's trunk loses
out in a contest with a coal car at the
‘ Union Station,

| ‘The two fresh who were inquiring
_ for the Seaboard depot in Charlotte to
‘come to Davidson remind us of the old
saying: ‘‘When silence is golden, ‘tis
folly to be wise.”

LET’S HAVE A BAND.

If there is any one thing that will put life and “pep” into an organiza-
tion, a student body or just simply an idle crowd, more than anything else—it ,
is a band. For a number of years Davidson has been without a band. There., ‘(he end of a perfect day. Night of
may have been a time when Davidson had one, but the present student body : June 30.
does nat remember it. At this time a band is needed more than perhaps at any :
previous time because of the military feature of the college. Colonel Mueller | . :

. wees , army and Villa needs a job of an mar-
has put in a requisition to the War Department for a band leader—it looks tial nature, why nat make him chief of
likely that this request will be granted—but even if it isn’t—there are enough ay international police force ?.
musicians here to find a good leader among them. ;

Those who have been in the army know what it is to hear the band ‘Pury backward, turn backward,
strike a lively tune, when we are all fagged out after a hard day’s march. © Oh time in thy flight,

“The last long mile” is made shorter, the feet seem lighte?> one feels more like And don't let McAskill . .
a real man, when the band starts up on “The Star Spangled Banner,” “Dixie,” Turn off the light (with apologies).
(‘The Yankee Doodle,” “America,” anid other famous band songs. All it takes Don't kick on the college. Had you
to have one is sufficient interest among the students, Let’s get interested. -ever noticed the fact that the people
a ho Knock this old world the hardest
COLLEGE SPIRIT. no {ate the first ones to send for a doctor
; when they get sick?

Since the league of nations needs an

er and enthusiasm, without which
graduate is an entire credit to any col-|
lege; and, finally, they mean that vision! We like daylight savings all right but
of an ideal life beyond commencement, if the President could arrange for an
avhich shows a man that only through! extra hour of moonlight for the balmy
the rigid subordination of transient and | Sue nights like those just passed,
trivial pleasures can he hope to become’ wouldn't it be—Oh, boy!

the only great victory a university ever:'
avins—a_ trained, devoted and inspired. Don’t try to make the ‘honor. roll
alumnus, working for the welfare of;' Nor yet to lead your class,

mankind.”—The Atlantic Monthly. But try to lead the college
; » And with luck you may—pass.

{ Said the bald-headed man to the wait- '
tress bold:

“Some men mean by college spirit
something finer than lawlessness, dissi-
pation and rowdyism. ‘They mean the
loyalty of an institution which makes a
student guard its good name by being
manly and courteous in conduct at all
times and in all places, They mean the
sense of responsibility which aids a stu-
dent in forming habits of temperance
and industry. They mean that eager-
ness to make a grateful use of his oppor-
tunities which leads a student to keep
his own body fit, his mind alert and
thoughts pure. By college spirit some
men mean this, and far more; they mean
that loyalty to a college which rivets a
man to the severest tasks of scholarship,
through which he gains intellectual pow-

/

Alexander, sighing for more worlds

She replied scornfully: “I can’t help| crips last year.
that.

( “If the blamed thing's chilly—put on
our hat.”

are on the job.

dhe DAVIDSONIAN, Sept. 10, 1919

Famous Jews:

Friend.

Elliot.

Beall, ex-officio.

The Wandering.

Ikey.

Lady’s trunk strays into Louisiana.

Harrel desires information concerning
ox-hides.

Freshman (name withheld for fear
| of violence) addrzssing an “assembly” —
“Gentlemen of the class of '22.”

Ideal Colleges:
For Fresh—Solphless.
For Solphs-—Examless.
For Juniors—Reportless.
For Weuns—Co-ed.

Ain’t we unegotistical? While you
all (C. Alphonso Smith) are writing to
your girls we have to put in our time
on this junk and do our writing in our
spare time which from present indica-
tions will be sometime after the last of

next May. _

And in spite of the fact that the gov-
ernment of these United States is mak-
ing efforts to prevent this country ever
being “lit up" again, we have with us
even yet, the light that did not fail—
moonshine,

“All things come to him who waits.”
‘Thus runs the little song.
But, friend, be sure that when you wait
You do not wait too long.

Don't get himesick. Probably you
weren't half as valuable there as you
thought you were, anyway.

“Preacher” Beaty, the co-partner of
“General” Hall, has returned to David-
son, He says that he misses General
a great deal, but supposes that he can
hold down the job by himself.

“Birchic’ Romefelt has returned to
. Davidson and has been fortunate enough
‘to secure a room with “Red” Sullivan.

+ KEEP THE ROOMS CLEAN.
; -
« “Man is a product of his environ-
tment.’ “There seems some conflict ‘in
Ppinion among men as to the truth of
this phrase; but inasmuch as different
wolleges and universities produce differ-
ent types of men, we must accept some
element of truth in it. In other words
four years of college life is bound to
fleave some trace in a maf’s life.
') The greatest thing a college man can
do is to live a clean life. But can we
five a clean life while our physical be-
fing is living in a dirty room or on a
ttrash-heaped campus? Physical clean-
mess is the first step toward self-respect ;
and a clean dwelling place is just as im-
portant as clean clothes, There are
other obvious reasons why we should
dive in clean rooms, for health and for
‘appearance.
+ .But what we are interested in is not
the reasons, the question is: “Are our
zooms in the dormitories as clean and
aeat as they should be?” Unfortunate-
dy the answer is in the negative,
rooms as a whole are not clean; but the
®yvorst conditions exist in our water clos-
fets and bathrooms. ‘They are simply
filthy beyond description, Such, a con-
(lition exists nowhere in higher institu-
[tions of any standing. We dismiss this
question of uncleanliness ‘with the usual
Jphrase, “These niggers aren't worth a
(cuss. But the janitors put “the blame
ponous. Both seem to be right’ in one
fense and wrong in the other. We are
{not careful enough to make them care-
ul.

Let us co-operate with the authorities
and clean up our rooms and campus so
{that the janitors will be ashamed to
feave them uncleaned.

t Cleanliness is next to Godliness. Let
ys do it and at once, too!—The Tar
(Heel.

Ss.

J —_—_——_—
An old negro preacher was introduc-
ing a white preacher. The white preach-
er had offered to preach a sermon for
‘tthe colored brother, and, in introducing
tthe white preacher, the old negro could
,inot find enough adjectives with which

“Look h ' »,| to conquer, had nothing on some of the|to praise the visitor. “Dis noted preach- ,
! ok here, woman, my cocoa’s cold.” | present day seniors who used up all the| er,” said the old negro to his flock, “is;

The -

Davidson Secures New
Head of English
Department.

Prof. Shewmake Well Qualified for

This Department.

Professor E. F: Shewmake, Jr., who
is to occupy the chair of English, is a
man of pleasing personality and wide ed-
ucational experience. Those who have
met him have been impressed by his spir-
it of cordiality and helpfulness.

_. .

Professor Shewmake received his A.
B. degree at William and Mary Col-
lege. after which he specialized in Eng-
lish at Columbia University and receiv-
ed his M. A. in that department. He
has completed all Ph.D. work at the
University of Virginia except his disser-
tation. After this he taught English and
Latin one year in the Newporr News
High School, Latin and History one
vear at the Norfolk Academy, and was
principal and head of the English de-
partment at the Staunton, Va.. High
School. From this last place he went to
the University of Virginia and was in-
structor and fellow in English for one
year and adjunct professor in English at
the same institution for two years.

At William and Mary he belonged to
the Pi Kappa Alpha and Phi Beta Kap-
pa Fraternities. Later at the University
of Virginia he was a member of the Ra-
ven Society, which is a local honorary se
ciety on the order of Phi Beta Kappa.

Every Davidson man should be proud
to have a man of such exceptional social
and mental equipment on the campus
and should give him a hearty welcome.

DIRECTORY.

Student Council.

Seniors, W. F. Hall, §. H. Askew,
H. M. Spann, W. B. Sullivan, D. M.
Chalmers.

Juniors—J. M. McKeldin. W. C.
Gaither, J. R. Boulware, J. C. Me-
Caskill.

Sophomores—G. H. Cornelson, Jas.
Sprunt, J. M. Richards.

Athletic Association Officers.

H. M. Spann, President; A. L. Cur-
rie, Vice-President; F. L. Jackson, Sec-
retary-T reasurer,

Student Body Officers.

L. L. McAlister, President; L. B.
Schenck. Vice-President; A. L. Currie,
Vice-President; Jas. Sprunt, Secretary-
Treasurer. .

Class Officers.

Senior—W. F. Hall.

Junior—J. M. McKeldin.

Sophomores—G. H. Cornelson.

Freshman—To be selected later.

Young Men's Christian Association.

D. M. Chalmers, President; D. W.
Roberts, Vice-President; A. L. Currie,
Secretary; J. C. McCaskill. Treasurer.

Cabinet.

D. W. Roberts—Devotional.

A. D. McArn—Fresh Reception.

L. G. Calhoun— Mission Study.

W. F. Hall. Jr.—Personal Work.

C. M. McAskill—Publication.

R. R. Craig—Attendance.

L. L. McAllister—Bible Study.

S, H. Askew—Christian Activities.

C. W. Worth—Missionary Fund.

L. B. Schenck—Community Service.

Board of Control.

Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, Chairman;
Prof. Macon Reed, F. L. Tackson, S.
H. Askew, Treasurer: L. B. Schenck.
Secretary; J. R. Boulware, W. B. Sul-
livan, D. M. Chalmers,

one of de greatest preachers of de age.!, Pershing’s drastic orders against the
He knows de unknowable, he kin do dei Yanks flirting with German women are

ttable!”

Coaches Moore, Crayton and Grey|mndoable and he can onscrew de onscru-' going to give his presidential boom a big

impetus in the suffrage states,
