ow

‘The DAVIDSONIAN, March 26, 1919

Drill On Campus Is
Subject of Debate
Interesting Discussion of this Campus
Problem.

* Ld * a * * * ” + a

PROGRAM FOR MARCH 29:

Eu, Society.
Debate.
Affirmative: Negative:

J. R. Boulware
R. D. Brittenhart
. H. Harrell A, E, Cellar
. E. Gunn D. K. Grille

Oration: E. A. Turner

Declamations.

* M. P. Baba Pitts Douglas
Phi. Society.
Affirmative: Negative:
D. M. Chalmers W. F. Hall
* A. J. Davis H. A. Hill
* Banner Wool

* Declamations.
Clark

* Gaston
Freeman

ee 4 © © & @ i
a ee ee ee ee ee ee a es

* Poteat
* # * * 7. * .

Eu, Society.

The question for debate on last Sat-
“Resolved, That the

urday night was:
R. O. T. C. should be permanently es-
tablished at Davidson.”
that very little material could be secured
on the subject, the debate in the Eu. So-
ciety was full of interest and pep.

The affirmative — was
Sprunt, Wilkenson and H. White. ‘They
contended that the R. O. ‘T. C. should
be continued to enable Davidson to main-

tain her status among the other schools
of the country; that the physical training
would make it very beneficial to the stu-

dents, and that it was the patriotic dyty

of the students to support the R. O.JF

C. asa permanent establishment.
The negative was represented by Bi

zer, McFadden and C, B. Robson. ‘Fhese
gentlemen showed the injury that such a
measure would bring to the student body,
and to the college. ‘The last speaker ar-
gued that, from the standpoint of the

nation, the R, O. ‘T. C. was not neces-
sary as a means for national defense. ‘The
rebuttal was characterized by snap. Both
the committee and the house decided in
favor of the negative. J.C. Bailey gave
a very interesting declamation on “Shall
the statue of Lee stand in the Hall of
Fame?” On account of the lack of time,

it was moved and passed that the other

men on the program should be given
credit for their selection without per-
formance, after which the society ad-
journed with a sigh of relief.

Phi. Society.

The mecting of the Phi. Society on
Saturday, March 22, was interesting in
that a subject of considerable interest lo-
cally was discussed. ‘The topic was, ‘“Re-
solved, That the R. O. T. C. should be
continued permanently at Davidson.”
The arguments advanced in favor of it
were: (1). It would be a good thing for
Davidson; (2) It would provide a set
of trained men for officers in time of
war; (3) It would be an advantage ta
the students. On the negative points
brought forward were: (1) It is a waste
of time; (2) Davidson is not the kind of
school for the R. O. T. C.; (3) It isa
useless expense. The negative won.

T. H. Spence gave an oration on “It
Pays to Advertise.” This was a speech
of witty remarks and was followed by
one of the same character by R. D. Hall,
on “My Four Years at Davidson.”

The subject of the extemporaneous de-
bate was, “Resolved, That the daylight
saving plan should be permanently
adopted.” The affirmative won the de-
cision,

A double-headed freight passed through
Davidson on Friday.

+ *# + # eee eG

Despite the fact

upheld — by

*|some works of persons more or less con-

DR. LINGLE LECTURING
THROUGHOUT STATE

| ‘TOWN NEWS,

et the Kaiser Is
Desire of Polity Men

Atlanta Conference of Peace League
Also Discussed.

First Lieut. J. M. Rumple has ar-
rived from overseas and is spending a
brief leave of absence with his mother.
Mrs. W. J. Martin,

» ‘

Mr. R. W. Miles preached at Spray.

Dr. ‘Tl. W. Lingle first went to France
in 1917, assigned to the 13th American
Engineers,

He was soon transferred to
the French army, with which he worked

‘The indictment of the Kaiser was the N.C. last: Sunday. for about eleven months, under fire a few
. “ , . tiles «ces » Ve.
subject for discussion at the Polity club . . _ miles west of the Verdun front. He
; . Dr. FE. W. Curry, of Salisbury, N.
meeting last week, Dr. Currie gave al. ie viciting his mother Mrs has , spent the month of October, 1918, on
very instructive legal discussion on this Curry sreng is ‘ seen" ecture trips in the American army
popular subject. os Ore or has , . around Belfort and in Alsace, and in the
been as cunning as he oy” hime} 1 .
self an his violation of the spirit of all Vhe parents of W. G. Humphrey] camps toward the Swiss border, lecturing
Jhuman laws ‘In his own) mind, of fSPe™ 4 day of last week w ith hith. on European themes, Afterwards — he
rt fe Bs . ’ * ’ . . . , . +
course, he had boosted himself to that] -). : was with the French army again in the
supreme plane above the level of human The father of L. B. Schenck spent] Vorges for about: month and a half,
justice. And yet he has so. skillfully Stnday on the Hill. Dr. Lingle spent the last: few ‘months
“side-stepped’” the technicalities of thel a. ; before sailing, on lecture trips in the
laws that he cannot be convicted of Velegrams have been received to the} French army, speaking on American
breaking any civil lav. Of se he is effect that Privates Herbert ‘Thompson political, social, economic, educational,
eaking any civil law, course he is} yyency Cathey and Louis Potts havel. livious Ij .
protected from any legal punishment at y Caries ang fous Potts lave) and religious life and ideals,
present by the armistice. But even when landed at Newport News and willl Since his return De. Lingle has spoken
tb ‘ . id< as « erg * ¥ . .
peace is declared he can be indicted only | &2™ to Davidson as soon as they are] at Charlotte, Chapel Hill, Davidson and
of international crimes by a court of in- discharged. \ . other places in North Carolina. He is
. . = dake s . ‘, a ; 4]
ternational law, similar ta that by which Miss Sarah Hamil sho has bee now niaking a tour in North Carolina,
Napoleon was tried, Dr. Currie explain- |.) {2s O87 Flamelton, whe las Been lecturing in the principal cities,
ed three methods of procedure by which UL with pneumonia, is reported better

he can be convicted by such a court. If
he is capable of further crimes against
humanity, let us hope the controversy
over the details of the League of Nations
will soon give place to) more imminent
affairs.

Pursuing this subject of international
justice, Mr. Askew gave a report of the
conference in Atlanta, His synopsis of
the best speeches on the league to enforce
peace was very interesting and instruc-
tive,

Knox and Barnette

JUNIORS AND SENIORS
CLEAR FOR ACTION
The preliminaries of the Junior-Senior
Debate have been set for April 1g. It is
0 be hoped that both societies will show
‘ots of pep, and furnish a large number
of debaters to pick the team fram “The
wibject has not been decided upon vet.
nit will be announced next week “The
Philanthropic Society won both debates
last year, but the Eumeneans do not in-
tend to let them win this year.
The campus awaits with interest the
rccasion of both debates.

Entire New Line of

General Merchandise
Shoes, Hats
& Gents’ Furnishings

INTERESTING BOOKS
ADDED TO LIBRARY

WATTS IN CELLAR. A New Line of

The Library is fortunate in receiving

nected with the college in time past.

Mrs. Laura Morrison Brown, daugh-
ter of Dr. R. H. Morrison, the first
President of Davidson College, has com-
piled a short “Historical Sketch of the
Morrison Family,” and has kindly pre-
sented a copy to the Library. Eight
pages are devoted to the life of President
Morrison, Some interesting facts arc
treated briefly in her “sketch.”

A pamphlet “Military Hygiene,” re-
ceived this week is doubly interesting
from the fact that. it was prepared by
Maj. James S. Simmons, '11, and ist
Lieut. William C. von Glahn. ‘11. Dr.
von Glaho is a member of the faculty of
‘Johns Hopkins University, but at present
he is at Fort Sam Houston, ‘Texas. Dr.
Simmons was located in Philadelphia be-
fore entering the service in which he has
been rapidly promoted.

The library, also received this weck sev-
eral good works in American literature.
Among them are: “History of Amer-
ican Literature,” Halleck; “American
Prose,” Bronson; several poems by ‘Vick-
nor and Fields; “Early American Writ-
ers,” Cairns; ‘Chief American Poets,”
by Page.

SIGMA UPSILON TALKS
ABOUT NAT HAWTHORNE

The attendance at the Bible, classes
showed some improvement last week.
There were to8 men at the meetings
‘ast Sunday. “Two or three floors had no
meeting at all, duc to the leaders’ lack
of preparation or absence. By dormi-
tories, Rumple still leads, with Watts
bringing up the rear. Rumple, 35: South
west Chambers, 25; Georgia, 23; North
west Chambers, 16; Watts. 9. ‘Total,
108.

In all, 24 men went out to the after-
noon Sunday Schools, at which there was
tn attendance of 235.

Schloss Bros. Clothing

DON’T FORGET
to have that suit

DRY CLEANED
by

The Ben-Vonde ,Co.

The South's Largest EXchisive
DYERS & CLEANERS
18, 20 and 22 W. Fifth Street

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

E. N. BOOKER, Agt.

GOOD NIGHT-LETVTERS,

Hereafter night letters or night. mes-
sages may be sent from Davidson if filed
at the telegraph office before 6 p.m.
Mr. Abernathy wishes this te be made
known to the public. |

‘Latest Dope From Peace Conference

Your Nation is judged by its
representative.

Your representative is judged by
his appearance.

His appearance is judged from
his clothes.

Get that

Storrs-Schaefer Look—
neat and nifty.

GILBERT & McARN

REPRESENTATIVES
No. 13 CHAMBERS

At a meeting of Sigma Upsilon last
Wednesday night an interesting discus-
sioh of the works of Hawthorne was led
by Dwight Chalmers. E. Flynn had pre-
pared a paper on the life of Hawthorne.
E. A, Woods read an original short story
which was specially good, and reminded
all present of Poe's thrillers, Plans were
made for special work to be carried out
this spring. Last, but by no means least,
were the refreshments.

“How would you like to sign up with
me for a life game?” was the way a base-
ball fan proposed.

“I'm agreeable,” replied the girl,

“Where's your diamond ?”

