“Up From Slavery” Gives Ex-
cellent Discourse on
LITERARY NEWS ot eee
Some New Facts Revealed in ‘Life History of Booker T. Wash-
Societies ington Outlined

. A vital question which confronts every
Debates and Orations Very Good Southerner is the Negro Problem. The
Civil War marked the beginning of a
new hope for the black race and it is an
obligation of the white race to see that
‘they fulfill their hope in the right direc-

* * # * 2 @¢ # &

PROGRAM OF LITERARY
SOCIETIES NOV. 1.

*

ition. This great question is a study
Debate ; which has taken the time and labor of
Resolved. ‘hat the Daylight *! many altruistic minds and we, who be-

Saving Plan Should be Continued.
Phi Socety
Election of Marshalls and Off-
cers,

lieve ourselves dedicated to service for
humanity, must not let any opportunity
slip by.

“Up From Slavery” is a short book

Senior Eu Society
Debate
Affirmative:

Summers, A. C. Gunn, W. E.
Sanders, C. B.

Long
Richards, J. M. Booth, W. R.
Declamations

Negative:

McAlpine Lowry
Junior Eu Society
Debate

. Affirmative: Negative:
Logan, G: S. Mosely
- Meacham McCutcheon
Mauze McNeil
Morris McKaney

Morris
Declamations

e*# @ @ ee 2 @ #@ Oe * # Fst sseuneii@eeeree#eoer#ne

Patrick
* # @

Phi Soviety.

The sudden slamming of a window
interrupted a good criticism of one of the
best meetings the Phis’ have had this
year. According to the critic several of
the men are rapidly coming into their
own and had -not the window slammed
and scared Calhoun speechless he might
have had more to say.

The debate on the restriction of emi-
gration was very good, the speakers at
times waxing .eluquent and arguing ve-
hemently. ‘lhe affirmative was_repre-
sented by L. L. Wilson and McGeachy,
with the assistance of W. C. Smith, who
heartily endorsed his colleagues’ state-
ments and reiterated all their arguments.
The negative was upheld by G. N. Neel,
G..D. Sample and F. W. Smith, who
also put up a good argument.

During the discussion McGeachy in-
formed the scciety that Jefferson Davis
wrote the constitution of the United
States. The information was also im-
parted by F. W. Smith that only the
educated class was now allowed to enter
this country since they must all pass ex-
aminations, ‘These examinations con-
sisted of knowing the months of the
year and the days of the week.

Coyte Hunter gave an oration on
Buthevism, Bowlshevickism and Bull-
shevecks. This incomprehensible subject
was elucidated remarkably weil and all
the Phis now understand it perfectly.

‘ *

eo@ee@e Bee e eee ene ee eevee eve ee eee e 6

Ogden
«

F. V. Long gave an oration on the,
Winning of the War. He laid the blame |

on the Allies’ convoy system.

The extemporaneous debate on, Re-
solved, That the college ring should be
worn only by college graduates, was
both snappy and interesting Freeman!
upheld the affirmative and McLeod the
negative. The decision went to the nega-
tive.

There will be no program at society
this week; the meeting will be devoted
to the election of officers and marshals.
This year the chief marshal comes from
the Philanthropic society.

Eu Society.

jwhich any student could read in sev-
,eral hours, 1 is the life history of the
greatest colored educator America has
;ever seen—Booker ‘T. Washington.

; The book starts when he was a child
on a plantation in Virginia and tells the
story of slavery in a simple and whole-
hearted manner. After the Civil War
he entered Hampton Institute. Having
gained the rudiments of an education, he
iwent South and taught school. Then
came the crowning deed of his life—the
founding of the Tuskegee Normal and
Industrial Institute in Alabama. The
‘growth of this institution has been re-
markable both from the standpoint of
jbuildings and equipment and the great
jamount of good done.

Booker T. Washington rose from a
slave to the foremost educator among
the colored people in the world. Har-
vard University was the first to recog-
nize this fact when it conferred an hon-
orary degree on him. He gave a no-
table address at the Atlanta Exposition
which brought letters of commendation
from all parts of the United States.
President Grover Cleveland was fore-
most in congratulating him.

Such a character should be studied
with the problem to which he has shown
a good and reasonable solution. Let us
learn the lessen that “every persecuted
individual and race should get much con-
solation out of the great human law,
which is universal and eternal, that
merit, no matter under what skin found,
iis in the long run recognized and re-
warded.”

Read “Up From Slavery.”

|BLUE PENCIL CLUB
INITIATES NEW MAN
The regular meeting of the Blue Pen-
cil club was held laste Wednesday night
in the Pi Kappa Alpha hall.

|

THE DAVIDSONIAN, October 36, ‘1919

Who’s Who On The Campus

_ (This Column is Devoted to Giving

Facts Worth Monti ing Con-
cerning Some of the Men in
Our Present Student Body)

P. B. CARWILE, ’20.

P, B. Carwile was trained at Camp
Wadsworth, in Spartanburg, S. C., for
two months, He was then sent to Camp
Stewart, in Newport News, and was
there about two weeks. He embarked
from Newport News on the 19th of
September, 1918, and landed in Brest
on the 19th of the same month. He
was not at the front but was on the
point of being ordered to go when the
armistice was signed. When he entered
the service he was a private in the Sig-
nal Platoon of Headquarters Company,
/55 Pioneers. This company of infan-
try was disbanded on November 1, and
he was unassigned until December 6.
Then he was assigned to Company JD,
106 Infantry, 27th Division, as a first-
class private. He with 10,000 others
sailed from Brest on the 28th of Feb-
ruary and landed at Hoboken the 6th of
{March. The Leviathan was the largest
of the troop ships and brought most of
the 27th home. The 27th division, Gen-
eral O’Ryan cemmanding, was New
:York’s own and they trained a month
for the big parade in New York. He
_was discharged April 4 at Camp Lee, in
| Petersburg, Va.

Cc. G. BROWN, ’21.

C. G. Brown, a corporal. in the First -

Corps Artillery Park, Truck Company
_No. 6, was stationed at Camp Jackson,
in Columbia, §. C., for two months.
He embarked from Hoboken and land-
ed at Brest, May 30, 1918. He went to
ithe front on July 15. He took part in
the Champagne-Marne defensive, the
Aisne-Marne offensive, the fight in the
Chateau Thierry Sector, the Oise-Aisne
ioffensive, the fight around the Verdun
‘sector and the Meuse-Argonne offensive.
He was with the army of occupation at
Coblenz, Germany. He left Brest on
July 22 and landed at Newport News
on August 3, 1919. He went from
there to Camp Lee, at Petersburg, Va.,
and was discharged.

Town News

Miss Sarah Lingle, who is a student
at Salem College, Winston-Salem, spent
the week-end with her parents,

* * *

THRIFT AS A COLLEGE | practices thrift gets a self-discipline that
STUDENT'S PROBLEM like faith will move mountains.
' The T. d t
The war demanded that every Amer- the following program: propos

ican save money and students in educa- , That students, as a matter of national
tional institutions were not excepted.

aa ; TEC. | servi ll as personal advantage
The Liberty Bond and War Savings '“CrVice as we : ’
Campaign showed that even the college Work during - duce when rat or-
student who is self-supporting could set Wt weations S, and during part at least
aside a small margin for saving and in- | ' .

vestment. After-war economic condi- | That every college student should save
tions are demanding a continuance nimum of a dollar a week during his

of 2 mi
war economies, and universal saving and entire college course.
_safe investment on the part of all our!

That these savings should be funded
people. Shall the college student have a.as the nucleus for the start-in-life fund
part in this after-war program? At first for use after ‘graduation.

thought one would say that it is inex-! That these savings be invested safely
pedient for the college student to set in government savings securities.

aside part of his current money for sav-! That the student on receiving an al-
ings, but a closer examination of the jowance from home set aside, as a first
student’s own best interests, regarded charge on this allowance, his weekly

from the long-time point of view, and

‘of his fundamental relation to the na-'

tional economic crisis through which we
jare now going, has led thoughtful ad-
jvisers of the Treasury department's sav-
“ings division to urge that the present op-
portunity for regular saving and invest-
ment in government securities be put be-
fore the college students of the country,
as was the need for war savings.

The Treasury department is offering
the 25c Thrift stamp, $5 War Savings

‘stamp, and the $100 and $1,000 Treas- f

ury Savings certificates, as a means of
popular saving. It is also urging the
continued purchase of Liberty bonds
now held by banks as a means of reduc-
ing the expanded credit which is partly
responsible for constantly increasing
prices.

College students are urged to partici-
pate in Government savings primarily
because the country needs a rapid in-
crease in its savings fund and because
the practices of regular saving carries
personal economic benefits so funda-
mental and lasting that college students
as future leaders will wish to share in
this movement.

Many a college student has earned
and saved money before going to col-
lege and during his four years or more
of academic and professional training
has got entirely out of his habits of thrift
‘and so starts his business or professional
career heavily handicapped by the weight
.of unthrifty standards taken on during
.college life. The college student who

L

Dr. Shewmake, the new English pro-, Lieut. Commander R. C. Reed, of the |
fessor, was initiated into the club. Aft-; United States Navy, and his bride, were
er this initiation, the regular program guests of his brother, Professor Reed, on,
was catried out which was a study of last Thursday.
magazines. The following magazines * as
were studied and discussed: American,! Rev. Dr. Miley, Synodical Evange-'
Atlantic Monthly, Scribner’s, and Ev- list of South Carolina, is here on a visit},
erybody’s. .to his family. 9

At the close of the meeting refresh- °
ments were served,

fy
By

« *

* e

‘ton cracked his heels together, threw
back his shoulders and, in a ringing voice
demanded to know why, if the noble
state of Georgia could have been found-
ed by jail-birds—just why, now, couldn't
the U. S. be run by Reds?

| The gegular debate wag followed by
jan cxtemaperaneous debate between Bit-
zer and Mahood on the subject, “Re-
solved, That Seniors should be given
special privileges.” Bitzer said that it
would give the senior more time for col-

The Eumenean society decided that lege activities and that thus it would
immigration ought to be stopped for the benefit both them and the college. Ma-
next five years. | hood said that seniors have enough privi-

The affirmative put up a well pre- leges anyhow, and that the other classes
pared and excellently co-ordinated de- deserved special privileges as. much as

bate. J. K. Price led with perhaps the the seniors did. The decision favored |.

best speech of the evening, showing that the affirmative.

we cannot absorb the immigration. Then Martin, with livid face and staring
Drake assured the audience that the sub- ,eves gave the house Poe's “Tell-Tale
ject was “very intricate and hard to un-|Heart.” The critic thought his ‘make-
derstand,” still very clearly such a thing, up” was better than his ability to make
as immigration would flood the land ,up forgotten sentences and keep the
with Reds and I. W. Ws. Ormand ar- speech going. Matthews then gave an
gued that the President and the other {excellent oration on “Ambition,” citing
great men of the land (himself includ- Carnegie, Burr and Livingstone as ex-
ed) favored the project. |amples.

The negative debates were much more! Following the speeches the house vot-
amusing than convincing. Manning ed to continue the old form of debating,
lulied himself to sleep with the all-im-| without using any time on extempor-
portant question, “Who will do the |ancous ones.
work?” McIlwaine then favored the
house with an exquisitely phrased and
very daintily gesticulated little appeal for
new blood from across the seas—blue
blood—sturdy, virile, manly blood. Lis-

was given an “honorable discharge.”

clothes selling season is orf:

P. D. Miller was received
into the society, and B. B. Brittenhart

Every man’s your friend while the

| Mr, Miles left with the team for Vir- ;

ginia to see the game and will return
soon with his wife.

* ® *

shouse, Va., is visiting her sister, Mrs. M.

|M. Grey.
*. © ©
i The Book Lovers’ club was delight-
jfully entertained by Mrs. J. M. Doug-
las on Friday afternoon. Prof. A. Cur-
jrie made an interesting talk on the Re-
iconstruction Problems in the United
States.
e e e

Prof. W. W. Wood is now occupy-
‘ing a residence on Concord road, which
was recently purchased by the college.

* .

The recent death of Miss Ina Holler
was deeply fele by her large circle of
friends. She was a student in the col-
lege in 1903-05 and was a woman of
strong Christian character and ability.
She was buried in the Mt. Zion ceme-
tery, at Cornelius.

LIBRARY NEWS.

There is now on display at the Li
brary bullétin-board four pictures of bat-
tle scenes in France, brought back by

Coyte Hunter, ’20. The scenes on dis-| .

play are A View of Coblenz, Germany
Under American Flag, The Observation

Post From Which Kaiser Viewed Battle
of Verdun, Ruins of Molencourt in Ar-

gonne Sector and Ruins of Esnes in
Meuse-Argonne Sector.

Miss Smith, from Charlotte Court-}

B. OVERTURE—Academy
1 Marshall.

I FOUR PALS—Singing

F. PATHE NEWS—CHRISTIE COMEDY.

K THE GERALDS—Gypsy Serenaders, playing thirty-
four mandolins at one time, and other instruments.

E JAMES F. KELLY and EMMA POLLOCK—The
International Comedy Couple.

savings.

_ That the student who is working his
| way through college and paying his own
expenses in whole or in part, should set
-aside regularly a sum for savings even
lif it be so little as 25¢ a week, the cost
‘of a U. S. Thrift stamp.

| That students plan their personal ex-
“penditures with a personal budget now
jrecognized as the most practical instru-

jment for promoting wise expenditure in

,government, in business and in personal
nance.

That students discuss in -debating
clubs, fraternity clubs and other organi-
zations the relation of personal thrift to
business efficiency and success in life, and
the relation of individual savings to the
country’s capital fund, and to present
economic problems.

That student organizations should as
a national after-war service organize a
public discussion of the economic prob-
lems related to thrift, savings and in-
vestment, seeking particularly a state-
ment of their practical bearing on the
reconstruction problem and of the per-
sonal responsibility which the college
student has during college and after-
wards, for personal thrift and for its
promotion in the community, to the end
that colleges and all higher institutions
which in the work and save program for
the bigger and better America.

Tennis is a rich man’s game. Play it
and get rich.
Prorat od

aa
H
iy
+

Program Academy Theater, Monday, Tues-
day and Wednesday, Nov. 3d, 4th and 5th

- eBeowcnnes

Orchestra, Direction of A. J.

and Talking Comedians in-

troducing Something Different.
T CHARLES and MADELINE DUNBAR—Comedy

Novelty Oddity, “ANIMALFUNOLOGY.”
H PREVOST and GOULET in a Vaudeville Melange.

Program Thursday, Friday and Saturday,
November 6th, 7th and 8th

OVERTURE—Academy Orchestra, Direction of A. J.
Marshall.

PATHE NEWS—ROLAND COMEDY.

K CHARLES EDINBURY—Clever Gymnast.

E ED LORD and MARGIE FULLER—Presenting ‘‘Bits of
This and That.’’

1 ANDRU LEWIS-HELEN NORTON—Promoters of
Cheerfulness, suggest “IN THOSE DAYS,’’ a Humor-
ous Dialogue.

SSS SESS SPDT SD SSS SSS SDSS DS ESTO FASO DLS SOOO SDSS OSSD ESOT DOOD

wetendeceessanaeeess.

B.
F.

sewweees BewEE.. -

T FRANK MULLANE-—Musical Scales and Humorous Tales.
H_ SIX VENETIAN GYPSIES **Frolicking in.Gypsy Camp.’’

esse

