Gel Ready

For
Nov. 4te 7

' rl ity JA Vv!

SONIAN

Vez

V. M1.

FOR A GREATER DAVIDSON

Vol. VII.

Last of November Set for Final
Show of Seniors

Senior Speaking is to take place this
year on Friday and Saturday, Novem-
ber 28 and 29. Of course this event
would not be complete without the pres-
ence of the fair sex, so preparations for
their entertainment are being brought
to a rapid completion. Among the vari-.
ous stunts to be pulled off will be a) “© but it was great! Yes, we are
basketball game for the class champion- speaking of that game Saturday in
ship, and a concert by the Glee Club. which rain, mud, Gamecocks and Wild-
The usual fraternity receptions will cats were all mixed up in one big mud-
bring to a close the festivities on Sat- gte from which a bunch of almost un-
urday night. recognizable yet jubilant Wildcats

With such a short time before speak- emerged as victors,
ing the Senior class is beginning tO After many of the fans had about
tremble, and speeches are beginning tO conceded that the football contest be-
take form. Very soon the campus will teen Davidson and the University of
be alive with midnight orators and a South Carolina would be a deadlock
continuous muttering will identify amy With the count o and 0, the Red and
member of the class of ‘20, who are Black machine began to work in’ its
about te make their last attempt at accustomed manner, and scored a touch-
slinging the well known “Taurus. down in the last 70 seconds of play.

Playing the first half in a drizzling
Davidson ? V. M. 1. ?

rain and muddy field neither side was
able to score or greatly endanger her op-
Teams About Evenly Matched—Hard
Battle Expected

ponents’ goal. “The rain having ceased.
both teams came onto the field at the
beginning of third quarter determined to
make a count. Carolina was the first to
come within striking distance of the
‘goal. At the beginning of the fourth
quarter she rushed the ball to David-
sen's eight-yard line, where she lost it
iand at the same time lost her only chance
of scoring.

The Wildcats then began to work
hard and the terrific line plunges of

With three victories and two defeats
so far this season, the Wildcats .jour-
ney up into Virginia again this week to
meet Virginia Military Institute in
Reanoke. ‘The team will go into the
game with plenty of fight, in order to_
avenge themselves of the defeat of two
weeks ago by the only other Old Domin-
ion eleven they will mect this year, A
hard fought game may be expected as|
the Cadets have a wiry and fast team
this vear. After having soundly trounc-
ed the Red and Black basketball team
they will be out with every ounce of
strength to win in football also,

The two teams are very evenly match-
ed with a possible edge in favor of Da-
vidson, which is offset by the fact that!
Black is out of the game for a while
with a broken hand and that the game
will be played on the opponents’ field.
It is rather difficult to compare the rela-
tive strength of the two teams as neither
have met a common enemy this season.
However, in an indirect comparison it
will be seen that the Wildcats have a
slight advantage. Washington and Lee
seems to have a better team than the
U. of Va., as demonstrated by the de-
cisive way in which the Generals beat
Rendolph-Macon, while the University
was able to score only two touchdowns.
However, the University won from V.
M. I. 7 to o and from this it would
appear that Washington & Lee would
have little trouble in beating the Cadets.
But to come down to Davidson’s
chances, the difficulty which the Gen-
erals experienced in scoring on the Red
and Black would prove that Davidson
has a slight edge on V. M. I. Also, re-
member the shock which ‘“Monk”
Younger and his Tiger clan from Hamp-
den-Sidney threw into the Cadet camp
when they held the V. M. I. eleven to
a3tooscore. The fact that the Uni-
versity of Virginia only won from V. M.
T. by a single touchdown ought not ta
discourage Davidson supporters. Last
Saturday was a bad day thruout the
South for football on account of the
muddy fields. Virginia has a weak team!
this year, being unable to score on Rich-
mond College and only putting across
one touchdown on Randolph-Macon by |
straight football, the other line score:
being on a fluke.

The teams will probably lineup as

yard line. Here Spann, aided with al-
imost perfect interference, carried the
iball over for the only touchdown of the
| game.

For Carolina, Max McMillan was
the outstanding star. The big tackle re-
(peatedly broke thru the line and threw
Davidson backs for losses. On the of-
fensive McMillan made openings in Da-
vidson's line that allowed Carolina’s
backs to sheot thru.

Black was the star of Davidson. With
a bone in his hand broken, this great
player, with powerful plunges tore thru
iCarolina’s line for good gains. Spann
ran the team as only Henry Spann can.

First’ Quarter.

Davidson won the toss and chose to
receive. Smith for Carolina kicked 38
yards to Johnson, who returned 8. Da-
vidson’s ball on her 30-yard line. Shep-
herd made 3 yards over right tackle and
followed with 2 more thru the same
place. Spann then tore thru Carolina’s
line, going over tackle for 10 yards and
first down. Davidson's ball on her 45-
yard line. Johnson made 3 around right
end; Black 3 off left tackle. Black then
failed to gain off left tackle and Johnston
punted 35 yards to E. Smith, who re-

follows: turned 11 yards. Carolina's ball on ‘her
Davidson. Position. V. M.1.,own 25-yard line. B. Smith made a
Miley........ ...LE....... Clark:yard thru center. Allen lost a yard in
Hammett........ LT ...... Dabney {attempt to break thru Davidson’s line.
Romefelt........ LG...... Harrison Goodman punted 34 yards, ball going
Brady.........-. C........ Smith |out of bounds.
Davis........... RG...... Shipley Davidson's ball on- her own 41-yard
McMaster.......RT .... . Summers line. Johnston made 5 around left end.
(Continued on Page 8) Spann hit center for 2 yards. Black

_ Black soon carried the ball to the 22-[Jine,

Saaz
=

ee
—

i DAT WILD CAT WENT AFTER DE’ PEATHERS. |

made it first down with § yards around
right end.

Davidson's ball on Carolina's 4-yard
line. Johnston raced around left end
for 12 yards. Shepherd annexed 3 off
left tackle. Spann circled right end
for 9 yards and first down, :

Davidson’s ball on Carolina's  24-
yard line. Black ripped a hole in Caro-
lina’s line, going over left tackle for 6
yards. Spann made it first down thru
center.

Davidson's ball on Carolina's 14-yard
line. Spann failed to gain thru center.
Davidson fumbled but recovered, losing
2 yards. Black made 3 ‘around right
end. Johnston failed to gain) around
right end, the ball going over,

Carolina’s ball on her own 13-yard
line. B. Smith circle left end for 9,
yards. “Fimmons made it first down with
1% yards thru center,

Carolina's ball on her own 24-yard
line. Skinner failed to gain around right
end. Goodman punted 38 yards to
Spann, who returned 1s.

Quarter ended with ball in Davidson's
possession on Carolina's 47-yard line,

Second Quarter.

Davidson's ball on Carolina’s 47-yard

Johnston made 4 yards around left

|

&

end. Black circled right end for 11
yards and first down.

Davidson's ball on Carolina's 32-yard |

line. Spann went thru center for 3
yards, then took 2 more thru same place.
Johnston made 3 over right tackle and
Black followed with 4 yards thru same
place.

Davidson's ball on Carolina’s 20-yard
line. Time out for Black. Goodman
threw Johnston for a 3-yard loss around
right end. Brockington stopped Spann
before he could get started. Black made
4 yards off left tackle. An incompleted
pass gave the ball to Carolina on downs.

Carolina’s ball on her own 20-yard
line. Timmons hit center for 6 yards.
B. Smith made 3 off left tackle and Tim-
mons annexed another thru center for
a first down.

Carolina's ball on her own 30-yard
line. Allen hit Davidson’s line for 6

yards over right tackle. B. Smith gained '

2 around left end and Timmons made
it first down. Timmons went thru cen-
ter for 2 yards, Allen over tackle for 3,
and Timmons thru center for 2. Good-
man then punted 30 yards to Black, who
was downed in his tracks.

Davidson's ball on her own 22-yar
line. McAlister was substituted for
Johnston. Spann made 3 yards around
right end. McAlister circled left end
for 20 yards, placing the ball in mid-

field. Spann made 3 around right end ;'

Black 2 over left tackle. A pass was in-
complete. McAllister failed to gain
around right end, running out of bounds.
The first half ended with the ball in

(Continued on Page 5)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON. N. C.. OCTOBER 22, 1919,

Davidson Wins Third Victory of Season
by Defeating Carolina 7 to 0

Game Played in a Drizzling Rain—Hard Fought Throughout, Touchdown
Being Made in Last Two Minutes of Game—Spann, Black
and McMillan Outstanding Stars

Tennis Tournament to be Held
Next Week

Winners to Have Intercollegiate

Match mmissary
Offers Prize

With enthusiasm for athletics at its
height, centered around the record be-
ing made by the football cleven, the ‘Ten-
nis Association makes the announcement
jthat tennis will soon make its appear-
‘ance on the scene.

The fall tournament will begin Mon-
day, October 27. Those desiring to
participate in the play must have their
names entered by noon on Saturday, Oc-
tober 25.

Both doubles and singles will be
/played. As an inducement to secure en-
.tries for the tournament the Commis-
sary has offered a box of tennis balls of
a well known brand. It is stated that

at least one trip will be made by the‘

winners; it is probable that more will
be made. .

Davidson should this year have one of
the hest tennis teams in its — history.
Frank Hall, last year's single champion,
has returned to college after a summer's
play at the University of Virginia. “Tom
Hawkins, who won the tournament: in
1917, ts back now and will make it quite
interesting, for anvone that meets him.
Hall and Spence, who have held the
doubles championship for two years, wall
play together again, and from all) ap-
pearances will make an) extraordinary
showing, “Phe Mckeldin brothers will
make a strong combination in the part-
ner event, “Phe draw will be made next
Saturday afternoon, and remember that
Lall entries must be made before noon on
Abat day.

PRIZES FOR ‘THE WINNERS
IN TENNIS TOURNAMENT

The following prizes have been of-

ifered in the tennis tournament, accord-'

ing to Manager Spence:

One Emblem; by WS. Henderson.

One Soda ‘Ticket at White's.

One Soda ‘Ticket at Jetton’s.

$a in trade at Elliott’s.

$1 in trade at The Davidson Kandy
Kitchen.

One Pressing Club ‘Ticket, by Tobe.

$1. haircut ticket, by Norton’s,

$t haircut ticket, by Cunningham.

One Box Tennis Balls by the Com-
missary,

The distribution of these prizes will
be among the finalists, etc., in the singles
and doubles,

THE LAME, THE HALT, THE
BLIND, MUST MAKE UP
DRILLS.

The ruling of the war department
that all delinquents in drills or physical
exercises in any R. O. T. C. camps
should make up the drill in extra time,
was put into effect here last Thursday.
| Sergeant Caroll had charge of the de-
linquents, which numbered about thirty,
and drilled them for an hour in the
different lines of instructions they have
| received since the beginning of — the
term.

Sergeant Caroll stated that the men
who are absent from any drill or exer-

and will be required to drill one hour
for cach charge against him.

Another drill will be held as soon as
la sufficient number of absentees have
occurred to justify it,

FAMILY REUNION.

Mrs. B. H. Easley, of Clarksville,
Va., is spending some time with her
daughter, Mrs. M. E. Manning. Also
Miss Louise Manning, of Washington,
D. C.. is spending her vacation at home.
Mr. W. H. Manning, ex-’13, and fam-
ily. of Barnwell, S. C., spent the week-
end with his mother.

cise will be held responsible for same.

Excellent Entertainment

| Enjoyed by Everybody

Rich-Werno Company First Lyceum
Attraction—Hearty Applause of

| Large Audience Shows
| Its Appreciation
|

The Rich-Wenno Company, the open-
ing attraction of the Lyceum course, was
presented in Shearer Hall last Wednes-
day night at 8:30. A large crowd of
both college boys and townpéople were
entertained and delighted for an hour.
and a half by the talented and well
{known artists. The company was com-
iposed of two ladies, Miss Rita. Ritch
and Miss Laura Wenno.

‘They opened their program with Miss
Rich singing the well known selection,
“Cherry Ripe,” accompanied by Miss
Wenno, followed by “The Ballad of the
Lost Ford." This was enough to win
the hearts of the audience, causing con-
-siderable. applause, which was charac-
teristic of the entire entertainment. Miss
Rich soon gained admiration by her most
attractive and winning manner. Miss
Wenno, the clever pianist, convinced the
audience otf her unusual recitative abil-
ity by rendering a familiar _ selection,
This was followed by Miss Rich’s clev-
er impersonations of old and modern cus-
toms and music. Her childhood. philus-
ophy was also very admirably staged.

Miss Wenno next gave the most tal-
ented and interesting number of the
evening, Henry Van, Dyke's beautiful
little story, “The Mansion.” She held
the audience in a trance, as it were, dur-
ing the entire reading.

The tone of the program was next
changed to the rendering of a number
of Scotch ballads by Harry Lauder, Miss
Rich impersonating the world famous
comedian. Among the selections there
were “I Love a Lassie,” “Every Laddie
Loves a Lassie,” “It’s Nice to Get Lp
in. the Morning, But H’s Nicer to Lie in
Bed,” and “Roamin’ in the Gloamin’.”
The scene then changed to the imper-
sonating of life in Japan and China,
with appropriate costumes and music, in-
jcluding the popular song hit, “Chong-
Chong.”

After a short interlude, the program
was continued with the presentation of
a number of amusing Irish songs, both
artists dressed in the garb of the Emer-
ald Isle, Miss Wenno then gave a very
comical dialogue of the conversation of
an Irish couple at an American game
of baseball. The program ended with
two popular American song hits, *Mick-
ey” and “Jim.” Tt was a delightful en-
tertainment, sparkling with fun and en-
riched with good music.

COLLEGE TRAINED MEN.

Less than one per cent of American
men are college graduates. Yet this one
per cent of college graduates has fur-
nished :

Fifty-five per cent of our presidents.

Thirty-six per cent of the members of
congress.

Forty-seven per cent of the speakers
of the house.

Fifty-four per cent of the vice-presi-
dents.

* ¢ *

* # @# «@

~

*. *

Thursday—Davidsonians arrive.

Thursday night, 7:30—Bible Class
Leaders’ Meeting.

Friday night, 8:00—Movies: Jack
Pickford in “The Ghost House.”

Saturday—Davidson vs. V. M. I.,
at Lexington, Va,

Saturday night—Literary Societies.

‘Sunday morning, 10—Bible Classes,
Chapter V. ,

Sunday night, 7:30—Y Meeting.

Monday night, 7:00—Junior Lit-

erary Societies.
aoe * 02? © @© © @ @ ¢€

2°. © @ © @ 6 #8 © @ » Oe
*e*eeenteeoeeeeeesetee *#

cd

Just HOW MANY BOYS Do You REALLY KNOW On the CAMPUS?
