THE DAVIDSONIAN, October 8, 1919

THE PROSPEROUS LOOKING

“Are you beating the Fresh” (meaning
RANCHMAN.

in the amount of cotton picked? asked

Visitors at the Cheyenne ‘Frontier
Days” last week were particularly
struck with the fine appearance of a tall,
‘broad-shouldcred, splendidly-set-up man
who was dressed in ‘chaps,’ a broad-
brimmed Stetson, high-heeled boots and
who otherwise looked the part of the
avealthy cattleman down to the last de-
tails.

“There,” remarked many an eastern-
er, “is your typical western cowman—a
fair sample of the ‘old west’ that is van-
ishing so fast. I'll bet he can write his
check fer at least a million dollars, and
that he owns more cattle than Armour
& Co. cculd slaughter in a whole day.”

The impressive stranger mingled
cease’essly with cowpunchers and ranch-
men and everywhere he went was the
cbject cf admiring glances, His strong,
heavily-tanned face attracted comment
from both men and women.

On the last day of the show a pros-
perous looking man and his wife ap-
proached the stalwart person in the
ranchman's garb and said:

* “Excuse me, sir. Pm from New York.
My wife and 1 have been admiring you
for two days, and we just want to
shake hands with a .real cowboy—we

a visitor of Ben Dunlap as the youth
looked up from his row of cotton.

“No’um,” he answered. ‘“There’s not
any of them out here to beat.”

‘SAY IT WITH
FLOWERS

SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.

Jetton Drug Company, Agents

Attention, College
Boys!

A new line of Stetson, No-
Name, Vanity and Belk Hats
at $4.00, $5.00, $6.00 and $7.00.

College boys’ skirt model believe you are the most typical west-
suits, $25.00, $39.50, $35.00 and erner we have ever seen.”
sv. The man in the broad-brimmed hat

’

and the “chaps” was courteous and af
fable.

“Where is your ranch?” inquired the
New Yorker.

“Oh—down in Colorado,” replied
the other, casually, “down in Estes
Park.” ,

A few minutes later the New Yorker

New Neckwear at 50c, $1.00
and $1.50.

Silk Half-Hose in all colors
at 59c, 85c and 90c.

Will You Spend 50c on Rat-Snap to
Save $1007

One soc pkg. can kill so rats. The
average rat will rob you of $10 a year
in feed, chicks and property destruction.
RAT-SNAP is deadly to rats. Cre-
mates after killing, Leaves no smell.
Comes in cakes. Rats will pass up
meat, grain, cheese to feast on RAT-
SNAP. Three sizes, 25c, 50¢, $1.00.
Seld and guaranteed by Mooney Hdw.
Co. and White Drug Store.

met a man who knew the tall stranger
in the cowpuncher's garb. He inquired
about the ranchman.

“Ranchman?” smiled the informer.
“Well—he does own enough land to
make a ranch, But it’s mostly cottage
sites down here adjoining the Rocky
Mountain National Park. That's the
Rev. John Timothy Stone, pastor of
Fourth Presbyterian church of Chi-
cago.”

PEANUT PARCHER

T. H. SPENCE, Editor

HIS GREATEST YEAR'S WORK.

PLAY TENNIS

It had been a dull year in the church.
oO; WITH

The elders sald to the old pastor: “We
love you, pastor, but don’t you think you
had better resign? There hasn't been 2
convert this year.” “Yes,” he replied ; “it
has been a dull year—sadly dull to me.| Judging from some recent review \¢
Yet 1 mind me that one did come, wee} marks the French had no monopoly on
Bobby Moffat. But he is so wee a bairn | their watchword of Verdun. |
that 1 suppose it is not right to count .*
On account of extensive lab. work, |
Jim) Witherspoon announces that he

him.” A few years later Bobby came to

the paster and sald, “Pastor, do you

think that I could ever learn to preach?| has just finished moving his bed to the

jl feel within here something that tells | attic of the Chemistry laboratory,

me that | ought to. If 1 could just lead .* *

souls to Christ, that would be happiness| A certain Fresh informs those back

to me.” ‘The pastor answered, “Well,| home that he drills ach day vith a — ——E—eESESEOe

(Bobby, you might; who knows? At] 40 pound pack and attends five classes :

least you can try!’ He did try, and|/ each diem during his spare time. Must

years later when Robert Moffat: came} want a dip in one year. L. A. ELLIOTT

CANDIES

FRUITS, ETC.

Spalding Tennis Equipment /

Balls, Rackets, Nets, White
Flannel Trousers, etc.

Fullequipment for men and women, including
tenntneutning, Send jer catalug.

A. G. SPALDING & Bros.
THE COMMISSARY

back from his wonderful work in . e @

‘Africa, the King of England rose andi The question which men have been
uncovered in his presence, and the British | figuring on for 30 days of how to get a
‘Parliament stood as a mark of respect.) uniform without a rifle has been solved.
The humble old preacher, who had but: Join the band.

one convert, nad who was so discour-| ’
aged, is dead and forgotten, and yet that, No man gets all he wants but many
was the greatest year's work he ever did men want a lot less than they get,
—and few have equaled it.—Young , ‘os

People's Weekly.

Ad 4

See me for your feeds

.

ee

12 Watts confirms the veracity of the
catalogue to the ath degree, “The wa-

. . {
ter there is running all the time.
* + *

ae | THE RALEIGH

CHARLOTTE’S BEST CAFE

The great American pest: “Phe tell
everybody else but her kind if liver.
’ sd e
Assistant Professor: ‘Mr. Hawkins,
hew would you ascertain the weight of
mile of earth.”

ae te ete enemeeeeceneomeremenense

a
| Mr. Hawkins: “I don’t — exactly! J. T. MATTHEWS, Prop.
‘know, doctor, but it can be done. You!
, would weigh the world first, wouldn't
you?” 221 W. Trade St. : Phone 3486
Dear Mr. Peanut Parcher: ; et etontrrte ett
lam a little Freshman 17 years old. | pizeseoseene.- _eeemeeccneesa wanes 9
Also my girl won't write to me, What: N
‘must 1 do? ° 2. Hy
Dear Little Freshman, 18 years old: | Brady Printing Co. :
Get another girl, “That's what) we: ,
do in cases of that kind.
* » od :
_ As soon as we can secure some Wild- { Statesville, N. C.
cat mining stocks we may open up an]
| investment: bureau and tell you what co! i
buy. Until then Iet us recommend gov- ° :
e ° ernment. bonds. The Colle. S$ tt
The “Constitution’’ of To-day—Electrically Propelled a ge Printers |
Fresh Gunn: “Can't | come to your :
HE U.S. S. “New Mexico,” the first Six auxiliary General Electric Turbine-Gen- feed; I'm an officer in the Eu. Fresh If d printi i
battleship of any nation to be clectri- erators of 400 horsepower each, supply Society. ember: “What office?” you want good printing i
i the most importart Power for nearly 500 motors, driving pumps, on een . . Hy
ars AAaMnr NN oer are. She not fans, shop machinery, and kitchen and laun- Gunn: “1 am a debater. and quick service, BRADY H
only develops the maximum power and, 4°¥ appliances, ctc. In these later times it seems to be a/fl 1¢ Tap MAN i
with electrical control, has greater flexibility Utilizing electricity to propel ships at sea case of “Strike while the blood is hot.” TO DO i
of maneuver, which is a marks the advancement of Chink Wilki . i claims the honor of IT.
distinct naval advantage, . another phase of the elec- heing the champion water thrower in ;
but also gives greater econ- figures that tell the trical industry in which the college. The shots on which his claims ;
omy. At 10 knots, her | ory © e General Electric Company rest. were made from the third floor: :
normal cruising speed, she Longth~ 626 fect is the pioneer. Of equal | Watts to the first floor of Georgia and | ORDERS SOLICITED ;}
will stearn on less fuel than \Displacement— 32,000 tons importance has been its Rumple. Sounds like the days when } i
the best turbine-driven ship Fiche tect on) million gel- part in perfecting electric Leighton McKeithen was in his prime. | AT THECOMMISSAKY fj
that preceded her. Power—28,000 electrical horse- transportation on land, | "The following letter was submitted , :
power transforming the potential . R any area :
. . Speed—21 knots in a contest on the night of initiation
The electric generating energy of waterfalls for use into the Phi. Society: ‘i 16 Chambers
plant, totaling 28,000 horse- ia electric motors, develop- Dearest. Darling: a j
power, and the propulsion equipmert cf the ing the possibilities of electric lighting and I take my pen in hand to let you fl aes secceueee=—————_—=-- _ !

great super-dreadnaught were buitt ty the
General Electric Company. Their eperation
has demonstrated the superiority cf clectric
propulsion over old-time methods and a
wider application of this principle in the
merchant marine is fast making frogress.

As a resu‘t, so ge

scarcel® a home
be without the be

An illustrated Looklet describing the “New Mexico," entitled,

“The Electria Skip,"” will b: cert upon request.

General Electric Company, Desx 4+, Schenectady, New York.

eneral
General Office Company

Schenectady, NY.

raany other similar achievements,

of electricity to the needs cf mankind that

products and service.

_ know that ! am not living where I did}

live but am living where I moved. 1)
just want to tell you that T love you
better han all the other girls in the
world and Mars, too.

I feel a pitty-patty sensation behind
me when | write to you.

Mother is making sausage today and
all the neighbors are looking for their |,
dogs. Dearest, if you love me, say so; bility send your shoes to
; if you don’t love me, say so; and if you
‘love me and don’t want to say so, just’
squeeze my hand. Give me your heart. che Shu
Darling, and all the world will be
mine, |

1 love you better than a pig loves! N, C.
slop. 1 ask and beseech you, Darling.
to give me your love. Some day I'll
come to see you and take you to the
store and buy you some candy.

Give my love to your Ma, your Pa
and the bull dog.

Shoe Repairing

neral are the applications

or individual today need

nefits of General Electric For neatness and dura-

Addrese

Fixery, Charlotte,

W. C. & G. N. NEEL, Agents

Sales Offices in
all large cities.

| 30 and 36 Chambers

1
