Be Prepared - _

For Fall
aa

IE JAV:.JSONIAN

Tas

REMBLE

FOR A GREATER DAVIDSON

Vol. VI.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON. N. C.. OCTOBER 30, 1919.

No. 9

. H. Askew Succeeds Dave Rob-
S. H. Askew diterin-Chief of
Davidsonian.

A meeting of the student body was
called Friday morning for the purpose
cf electing an Editor-in-Chief of The
Davidsonian. D. W. Roberts, who was
elected Editor-in-Chief last year, has
been detained from college on acount
of illness and has therefore tendered his
resignation. The result of the election
showed that S. H. Askew was elected
Editor-in-Chief for the coming year.

Wildcats Preparing to
Give Ga. Tech Hard Fight
Team Still Crippled, but Hopes are

Entertained That All Regulars Will
be Fit for Saturday’s Fray

The center of football interest in the
south during the week is turned to the
Georgia Téch-Oavflson game. The fur
will fly and the dust will rise when the
Golden Tornado and Wildcats clash on
Grant field next Saturday. One of the
hardest fought games of the season is
anticipated.

Davidson will enter the game greatly
handicapped by the absence of several
players from her lineup on account of
injury. Some of those on the injured
list will probably play but it will be
under great difficulty. Jack Black will
probably still be out of the game with
his broken hand. Johnny Johnson. is
still suffering with an injured shoulder
and Hammett from injuries sustained in
the V. M. I. game. Brady has been
confined to his bed for several days and
will not be in trim for the fray. “Doc”
LaFar jis still out of the game with a
wrenched knee as a result of the Clem-
son game and will not be permitted to
play Saturday. The Wildcats then with
five Varsity men on the injured list will
ke greatly handicapped in meeting the
strong Tech aggregation.

Tech has a powerful team this year
and their record so far goes to prove
that the Purple and Gold warriors have
acquitted themselves well. Rolling up
a total of 184 points against their op-
ponents’ o in the first five games and
finally capping the climax by holding
Pittsburgh to a 16 to 6 score, is an ac-
complishment to be praised indeed. Da-
vidson, however, has always proven a
worthy rival and is considered such ac-
cording to forecasts from Tech, and
much interest is being manifested as to
the final result,

The two teams were unable to meet
last year on acount of Uncle Sam’s Army
regulations, but the result of the game
in '17, when the Red and Black crossed
Tech’s line for a touchdown and also
kicked a field goal, is still afresh in the
minds of the two student bodies.

A fair comparison of the two teams
may be compiled as follows: Wake For-
est held Tech to two touchdowns.
Tech’s team, however, was split, on ac-
count of a double header, and this must
be taken into consideration in comparing
it with Davidson's 21 to 0 victory over
the Baptists. The best comparisen can
be secured from the games with Clem-
son. After holding Tech scoreless the
first half, the Tiger resistance finally
crumpled and four touchdowns were
put across. Clemson won the week be-
fore from Davidson, 7 to 0. There are
the figures. Figure out the dope and
estimate Davidson’s chances for your-
self,
great handicap and against all odds If
she loses, the Golden Tornado no doubt
will wear a few scars to remind her of
the hard won victory.
will be a clean, hard fought game with

straight football and line plunging fea-

turing.
The proteges of Coaches Heisman
(Continued on Page 5)

Reporter’s Club Holds

Big Feed

‘ |
Members Growing in Weight at Least

—Spence and Askew Make Talk—
Freshmen Furnish Amusement

A blinding flash! A loud report! And
it was over. The men who were able to
do so slowly wound their dreary way
toward their rooms and rest sweet rest.

For Mcllwaine performed a flashlight
opcration on the assembled body of Da-
vidsonian reporters and future members
of the newsgatherers gang and thus end-
ed the feed given by the Reporters club,
ably supported by the business or rather
the financial department, to the fresh-
;men who have written for the livingest
i Wire on the hill.

“DI say we did” was the unanimous
reply of those invited, and inviting, when
asked if they had enjoyed the festivities,
“PIL say they did” is the verdict of the
press representative present, after sec-
ing the crowd fall-to on the eats.

The show began at 9:15 Saturday
night in the class room of M. §. and ‘T.,
with the feed proper. “Nhe chairman
of the committee on amusement (for up-
per classmen) and torture (for fresh-
men) then announced that the guests
would give an exhibition of their literary
talents, They did. If that night's work
is a fair sample of newspaper ability as
contained in the fresh class, ‘The David-
sonian in the next few years will be
entirely given over to the peanut
parcher,

. . I
Mauze headed the list of attractions

‘Dr. A. S. Johnson to Lead
Y. M. C. A. Evangel-
istic Campaign
‘Services to Begin Next Tuesday Night,

Lasting Three Days—Spe-
cial Music

Everybody is looking forward with
,intense interest to the annual campaign
of the Y. M. C. A. to be held Novem-
ber 4, 5 and 6, ‘

' This year promises an unusually in-
teresting. campaign, for many reasons.
Dr. Albert Sidney Johnson, pastor of
the First Presbyterian church, Char-
lotte, will be the speaker at the meet-
ings.
ance of a successful campaign.

|

i
’

te

|

Dr. Johnson is a man of unusual abil-

This fact alone gives the assur- i

_ V.M. L. Vanquishes Valiantly
| Scrapping Presbyterians, 14 to 7

Handicapped by Loss of Four Regulars, but Fought Gamely—Leech
Outstanding Star for the Cadets

In a game that was hotly contested 20 yards. Ball on D. C.’s 1 s-yard line;
and full of thrills from start to finish the Leech tried left end for no gain; Dics-
V. M. I. Cadets defeated the Red and son made 5 over center; Bunting was
Black at Lynchburg on the 25th, by a thrown for no gain; a forward " pass
score of 14 to 7. The Wildcats put up Stewart to Leech, was incomplete and
a great fight against their heavier op: the ball went over. Spann shot aroun:!
ponents but were handicapped by the right end for 6 yards;; McAlister mude
loss of four regulars who were kept out it first down around left. Hammett hit
of the game by injuries. Brady and La- the line for 1 yard; Cassell went around
.far were absent from their usual places ‘right end for 7 more; Spann made it fir:t
in the line, while Black and Johnston— down over left tackle; McAlister hit
the former with a broken hand and the the line for no gain; Spann made 2 yards
latter with a badly injured shoulder— through center; Cassell puoted 40 yards,
went in for the last part of the game, Stewart returning 10. Leech gained 15
bur were too late to overcome the lead ‘yards around right end; V. M. 1. pen-
of the Cadets, Of the two teams which ‘alized 15 yards, holding. Bunting ns
were first lined up againse each other, gain; Leech punted 20 yards to Spann,
however, V. MM. 1. played the better ‘who returned 15; Davidson's ball cn
footbal) and carned the victory. their own go-vard line. McAlister nade

The Virginians started off with a ‘2 around left cnd; Spann tried the same
rush. “They began a steady march down place for no gain; Spann failed te gain
the held after receiving the initial kick-'around right end. Cassell punted 30
off, and by a varied attack of line plays yards to Stewart, who returned 15.
and end runs, carried the ball to D. C.'s (Bunting went 8 yards through the line;
8-yard line, With the ball in the shadow !Stewarr added 1 through center and.
of her own goal the Davidson defense Leech made it first down. Bunting

‘stifiened and the ball went over on jrounded right end for 4 yards;. Mantot

downs, “Phe half ended without cither made it firse down. Stewart hit the line

‘goal line being seriously menaced again. jfor 2 yards; V. ML. 1. attempts pass but

At this point it looked like anybody's Shaw intercepts it. Davidson's _ ball.
game, although the Cadets had gained |Shepherd goes around right end for 3
more ground than the lads from North jyards; pass loses ¢; Shepherd punted 30
Carolina. ivards. V. M. L's ball in midfield.

The third quarter brought disaster to Quarter up. Score; V. M. 1.0; D.C. 0.
the Wildcats.

with a “Dere Mable” letter which at ity and achievements. He is a graduate , Receiving the kick off,
‘first appeared to be of the “it’s all off” of Auburn University and Union ‘Theo. | they were unable to advance the ball
variety, but when read by alternate lines logical Seminary. Graduating at Au jand resorted to punting. V. M. 1. then
transformed itself into an epistle of the burn with the class of os, he engaged began an irresistible series of — line

If she wins, it will be under a.

Heads or tails, it,

“Sweet Papa” kind.

R. F. Davidson demonstrated beyond
the shadow of a doubt the fact that Da-
ividson should. be a. great seaport by
reason of the fact that it has the two
requisites, viz: plenty of water and a
“shipping business of no mean propor-
tions.” X next gave a demonstration of
his jibing ability. His name is withheld
thru fear that the representatives of the
Cracker State might hold one of their
‘famous cravat parties with X as the
center of attraction.

| An apple bobbing contest next was the

center of attention for the crowd as a,

whole, and ten freshmen in particular.
‘All were declared losers and. as a pen-
laity, were requested to clean-up after the

e.

1

The proceedings then proceeded to a
joke contest, in which some originality
[was at least displayed in the coinage of
ithe word choiress. Booth and Cooper
twere declared winners and forced to ac-
cept, as prizes, a cake of Octagon soap
and mouse trap, respectively. The
booby, in the form of an all-day-sucker,
was distributed between Davidson and
Smith, the former getting the candy and
the latter the stick.

A poem in rank verse was endured
from Florida Davis as best the listeners
were able. Wolfolk rendered a culogy
on The Davidsonian, Peanut Parcher
excepted in verse form.

The Jast act was staged as per menu,
and consisted of talks by persons asso-
ciated with The Davidsonian. Boul-
ware, the assignment editor, consumed
the thirty seconds allotted to him in ris-
ing, bowing and reseating himself.

The president of the Reporters club,
Spence, endeavored to tell the new men
‘how to write articles, but seemed to be
unable to ramble far from that subject
so near to his heart—the Peanut
Pascher. ° .

Matthews, speaking as the business
‘manager of the publication, called for
the support of the club in matters per-
ltaining to his department. This was

in the manufacturing business. He was
not to remain long in this, however, he
felt inwardly that there was something |
greater he could do—something by |
which he could render more valuable
service to God and man. It was while
rattending a prayer meeting that this feel-
iing asserted itself and Albert Sidney
Johnson was converted. He immediate-
ily entered Union Seminary to prepare
‘for the ministry. His rapid advance-
ment and achievements are evidenced by
the important pastorate which he holds
and his wide popularity. Dr. Johnson's |
greatest work has been with boys and
men—inspiring them and helping them
in a manner belonging to him alone.
In view of this fact, he brings a mes-
‘sage to the young men here which every
‘one should put forth special effort to:
shear. . .
Services will be held each night: at |
7:30 in Shearer hall. Chapel will bei
held at 8:30 on the mornings of the 5th
and 6th and will be conducted by Dr.
Johnson. Special song services will be
theld at these meetings under the direc-|
tion of an experienced and popular
leader.
Every man in college is not only urg-'
ed to attend, but is assured he will miss’
‘one of the most interesting and inspiring |
features of the college year if he fails |
to hear Dr. Josnson speak.
1 Remember the dates—gth, 5th and:
‘6th. If you don’t believe we are going
to have a great campaign, ask “Buck”
‘Brown. He's a Johnson enthusiast and |
\says everybody wil] be enlisted in his:
ks before the meetings close.

jran

lyeadily promised in view of the fact that |
jhe had made the feed possible.

The speech of the editor-in-chief, As-
kew, closed the oratorical part of the
program. He made a talk in which he
‘gave his listeners a lot of good solid stuff
jand which, if followed, ought to aid ma-
terially in making, as he intimated was
the aim of the staff, The Davidsonian
lthe best college weekly in America.

yever.

plunges which coupled with a forward
pass put the ball on Davidson's t-yard
ine. Dickson carried the ball over for
the first touchdown and Leech kicked
goal, Black and Johnson went in at
this point and Davidson's prospects look-
ed better. It was not D. C.'s day, how-
An attempted pass from Spann to
Johnston was pulled in by Bunting, who

.taced 40 yards for another touchdown. |j,,

Leech kicked goal.

In the last quarter the Wildcats play-
ed truc tu their real form, sweeping their
opponents completely off their feet. A
pass to Douglas for 15 yards was fol-
lowed by another to Johnston for 25.

[After several line bucks, Spann passed !
‘to Dougles who made a wonderful catch, |
leluded two Cadets, and dived over for:

Davidson’s only rouchdown. McAlister
kicked goal from a difficult angle. The
Red and Black threatened to, score once
more before the final whistle but lost
the ball on an intercepted forward pass.

For V. M. 1., Leech and Bunting
played the best ball. Mentor and Ship-

jley also showed up well for the Vir-|Teturning 8.

ginians. Douglas put up a star game for

everything that started his way. In the
splendid football and Cassell's punting
outdistanced that of his opponents till he
was forced to retire with a sprained
ankle. Johnston also proved a_ spec-
tacular ground gainer after he went in,
while Black's line plunging proved an
eye-opener to the stands, although he
played with an injured hand. 7%

The game by plays is as follows:

First Quarter.

Davidson wins tess and ciects to de-

fend the east goal. ‘Cassell kicked off

30 yards to Mantor who returned 5.:

Leech hit center for 5 vards; Dickson
added 3 through center; Summers made
it first down. Mantor gained 4 through
the line; Bunting went over right tackle
for 6 more and first down, Leech w:nt
2 over guard; Bunting 3 over tack'e;
Stewart completed a pass to Leech fo:

Second Quarter.

Mantor, hit the line for 2 yards and
firse down; Stewart failed to gain; Bunt-
ing took 3, a pass made it first down.
Leech went 3 yards through center;
Leech thrown for 7-yard loss around left
end; Shepherd intercepted attempted for-
ward pass. McAlister failed to gain;
Spanti hit left tackle for 6; McAlister
added 1; ball went over when Spann
failed to gain. Bunting hit the tine for
2 yards; Leech took 4; V. M. L. fum-
bled, Davidson recovering. McAlister
t 4; Spann gained 1: Shepherd punted
[bute ball wene out of bounds on 35-yard
jline. Lecch tried right end for no gain;
Mantor gained 1 over guard; a forward
pass was incomplete; Leech punted over
the goal line. Davidson's ball on 20
yard line. Spann lost 1 yard around
end; McAlister failed to gain; Cassell
punts 35 yards to Bunting, who ran out
of bounds. Spann intercepted .an_ at-
tempted forward pass; a forward pass
was incomplete; Douglas made 2 yards
around left end. Half over. Score: V.
M. t. 0; D. C.o.

Third Quarter.
Leech kicked off 30 yards, Shepherd
McAlister was thrown
for a 2-yard loss; Cassell punted 30

Davidson, both on the offensive and de- ‘yards, Stewart running out of bounds.
fensive, while McMaster smeared up , Bunting made 3 yards over right tackle:

(Stewart made to through the line:

backfield Spann and McAllister played; Leech added § over right tackle; Bunt-

ling made 6 vards through center; V. M.
I.'s ball on D. C.’s 18-yard line. Mantor
(Continued on Page 8)

* * *# © @ @ 4° @ @ &

CALENDAR.

!

Thursday night, 7:30—Bible class
ucaders meeting.

Friday night, 8—Movies, Douglas
Fairbanks,

Saturday—Davidson vs. Georgia
Tech at Atlanta.

Saturday night—Literary societies.

Sunday morning, 10—Bible classes,
Chapter WI.

Sunday night, 6:10—Y meeting.

Monday night, 7—Junior- Literary

societies.
2 »

*
.
°
*
*
*

Sd
*
t

*
*
i

,@
°
*
\*
|:

eeetov e+ 6 8 ee & 8

* «@ ose e@ @ @ @ @ 8

LET'S LEARN MORE ABOUT LIFE--NOVEMBER 4-6
