wwtE DAVYDSONIAN

Vol. VI.

TWO COMMENCEMENT
SPEAKERS SECURED

‘The graduating address will be de-
livered by Mr. John H. MacCracken.
president of Lafayette College. Easton,
Pa. He is a highly educated man; hav-
ing studied at Union Seminary, Lehigh
University, Pennsylvania College and in
Germany. So we can expect something
unusually good from him.

Rev. J. Leyton Mauce, pastor of the
First Presbyterian Church at Hunting-
ton, W. Va. will preach the Baccalau-
reate Sermon this commencement.

The names of the other speakers will
come out later, but you may be assured
thar they also will be prominent: and
well worth listening to.

DR. MARTIN'S CONDITION
SHOWS IMPROVEMENT

The report fram Dr. W.. J. Martin
Tuesday morning reported that altho he
had a bad night Sunday, he spent an
easier dav Monday. His condition ‘is not
so critical now, and hopes for his speedy
recovery are strengthened.

President Martin was operated on for
appendicitis last Friday. at the Stokes-
Whitehead Sanatorium at) Salisbury.
The student body and faculty are sin-
cerely hoping for his early recovery.

St. Cecilia Dance
An Enjoyable Affair

Good. Music and Beautiful Dancing

Characterizes the Occasion.

Doubtless one of the most beautiful
and elaborate dances ever given’ in Char-
lotte was that given by the St. Cecilia
Club Monday night, March 10, in the
City Auditorium. ‘The dance was a
huge success from every standpoint, and
reflects much credit to the St. Cecilia
committee in charge of arrangements,
headed by N.Y. Pharr.

The music furnished by Lajoies’ ten-
piece orchestra more than came up to
expectations... It varied from divine
waltzes to the jazziest of jazz pieces.
From the time that the orchestra played
“Rose of No Man's Land" to “O Sole
Mio” and “Home, Sweet Home,” there
were wonderful doings in the heart of
Charlotte. Just after the intermission,
the second part opened up with the
grand march, led by the president of the
club,. A. M. Inman, with Miss Esther
Ashe, of York, §. C.. and Mr. J. J.
Love, with Miss Crosland, of Bennetts-
ville. S.C. At this time the favors were
given out, consisting of red, white and
blue caps, and parasols for the ladies,
and Japanese caps and serpentines for
the men,

The biggest feature of the dance was
the spot-light effect waltzes. “After
You've Gone,” played in one-step time,
"O Sole Mio.” “I'll Say She Does,’ and
“Mary” proved to be the most popular
of the numbers, all of which were en-
cored several times.

All through the dance sandwiches and
delicious punch were served, the refresh-
nents being prepared by the ladies of the
St. Elizabeth Guild.

Neatly arranged dance cards, with the

(Continued on page 6)

Under Fire at Verdun
Dr. Lingle’s Subject

Interesting Lecture on Over-Seas Ex-
periences Enjoyed by Students.

Dr. ‘TP. W. Lingle was welcomed back
to his own last Saturday night. He
looked fine in his overseas “Y" uniform,
and we can well believe he gave it all the
service it required in his overseas activi-
ties. He began his account of his ex-
periences by telling of the trip over with
darkness as a prominent feature. After
arriving “over there.” he said he thought
others would be assigned to the fighting
line in preference to him, but it was his
fortune ‘to be located near Verdun, with
the 13th American Mngineers, who oper-
ated all the trains in that sector, “This
meant that he was constantly under fire
up to the time: of the armistice.

Dr. Lingle showed a map of the terri-
tory near Verdun on which was a sketch
of a railroad built by the French in, 52
days in order to continue communicia-
tions with the fortress. This railway was
necessitated by the fact that the Germans
commanded by their artillery all) other
‘means of approach, including a canal and
two railroads. ‘The treaty of Frankfort
had stated that no railroads or highways
could be built in the Verdun territory
without German permission. — So, by
their first drive in torg they took posi-
tions threatening all lines of communi-
cation to Verdun and, though driven
back later by the French, they controll-
ed them with the exception of a third-
class military road from Bar-le-duc. For
three months, Dr. Lingle — stated. this
road stood the terrific test of being trav-
cled by 5,000 motor lorries every 24
hours. “Vhen the French built the afore
mentioned railroad.

The camp-at which Dr. Lingle was
located was 2 forest camp near Verdun.
He traveled about among 24 camps,
however. He first started a canteen,
then religious work and lectures, One
time, he said. a candle was burning a lit-
tle after dark in the “Y" tent’ and a
Boche saw the light. the result being: that
Dr. Lingle, whe was a couple of hun-
dred yards from it, heard and felt a ter-
rific crash, followed by another. He
ran for a nearhy ditch and found it al-
ready full. However, no casualties re-
sulted, but- after that no candles were
shown,

An outstanding feature of the place
was the rain. From October 2 to De-
cember 9 there were only four days on
which it didn't rain.« So with hundreds
of horses and thousands of men the mud
stayed about knee-deep all the time.

His account of the French meals was
interesting. They shake hands all around
before and after the officers’ mess, and
the meal is often an hour and a half
long. Dr. Lingle figured that he ac-
tually shook hands 300 times a day.
They prolong the process of eating by
conversation and do not follow the
American “barrage method” in consum-
ing food. He said that as a result not
even the wumen would “cut-in” on a
conversation.

There were two “Y” barracks, one as
a rest room with fires, music and reading
matter: the other, Dr. Lingle’s, was the

(Continued on page 6)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON. N. C.. MARCH 19, 1919.

Glee Club Reports
A Successful Trip

Concerts Given and Receptions Re-
ceived at Queens and Flora Macdonald.

The Glee Club started out

on its
initial trip last Wednesday morning,

playing at Queens College, in Charlotte.
on Wednesday night, and at Flora Mac-
donald College ‘Vhursday night.
Vhe concert at Queens College was
enjoyed by only a fairly good audience.
After the concert a reception was piven
to the members ot the chib and. their

friends. After an uneventtiol night, the
club left the next morning tur Red
Springs.

Arriving at Red Springs in the morn-
ing. the members of the club were placed
in various homes of the townspeople. and
were treated royally, A reception was
given by the Senior class during the aft
ernoon, ind proved to be avery enjoy
able occasion, After taking dinner at
the college, the second concert of the
trip was staged.

This concert was.the best given by the
¢lub this year. Playing ina large audi-
torium befare an audience of six or seven
hundred people, the Davidson boys ac
quitted themselves admirably, “ETE Say
She Does” and “O Susie Behave’ seemed
to make the biggest chorus Iits, while the
mandolin and guitar trio were brought
back several times, Shields’ solo, “Dear
Otd Pal of Mine” brought down the
house and called for several encores.

Those making the trip were: HH. B.
Brown, C. R. Vance VT. A. Freeman, A.
M. Inman. SJ MM. Gilbert. HE Bo Dendy.
C.J. Matthews. J. Ho MeReithan, A.
1. MecArn, B. 1. Shields, J. W. Phil-
lips, G. D. Sample. 1. PL MeGeachy.
M, A. ‘Tremain, Carl Cathey, J.J.

Love.

GRADED SCHOOL HONOR
ROLL IS WELLE FILLED

First Grade—Lillie, Ervin, Mildred
Fortner, Jack Johnston, -Z. K. Justice,
Christine Mooney, Ruth Wilson,

Second Grade—Susie Jackson, Mliza-
beth Ervin, Nellie Lackey, William
Mock, Mack ‘Porrence.

Vhird Grade—Jane Leighton Rich-
ards, James Caldwell, Adele Arbuckle,
Lucy Martin Currie, Sarah Withers,
John D. McConnell, Mattie Goodrum,
Johnsie Lee Sloop.

Fourth Grade — Vance Dearman.
Murray Fiddler, Howard Jetton, Rufus
Reid. Louise Ervin, Eva Fortner, Julia
‘Thompson, Margaret Johnson, Mildred
Mooney, Lydia Dye, Helen Proctor.

Kifth Grade—Mary Hamilton, Riggs
McConnell, William Hall, Sidney Proc-
tor, Graham Johnstone,

Sixth Grade — Howard Arbuckle,
Thomas Lothery, Robert ‘Thompson,
Sara Barnette, Letitia Currie.

Seventh Grade—Jean Marlin, Sophie
Richards, Joe McConnell, Frank Jus-
tice, Thomas Hamilton.

Eighth Grade—Lera Hobbs,
garette Finlayson, Sue Mock.

Ninth Grade—Martha Hamilton.

Tenth Grade—Sarah Hamilton, An-
nie Lois Barnette, Louise Chester,

Mar-

No. 20

TRACK MEEE POS'T-
PONED FOR ONE WEEK
It has been previously announced that
the annual Field Day meet which has
always proved a ‘feature af the spring
athletic program would
March 22,

be held on
Owing to the inclemency of
the weather and other unforseen causes,
the participants have been unable to get
in trim, due to lack of, practice, so tor
this reason the meet has been postponed
to the following Saturday. March 20.

Very few letter men of last) year’s
team have returned to-college this spring,
which affords an excetlent: opportunity
for these who have not already distin-
guished themselves in this line of ath-
leties to show what they can really do,
The question of a holiday on that: date
has been put to the faculty, hut on) ace
count ot the extra work which must be
accomplished this spring, their decision
is stall doubtful. toniess further an-
nouncement is made to the contrary, the
weet will be held on March 20. and as
the manayement is desirous that as niariv
take part as possible, it is urged that any
one who has any ability at all along this
line, whether big or dittle. slow or fast,
he out inorder that) Varsity material
nity be selected.

Volunteers Delighted
With Guildfordians

Conference was Inspiring, Also Social-
ly a Success.

Hf vou could have been one of the 20
Davidson delegates: whe went to Guil-
ford on Friday morning, you would have
heen inipressed with the hospitality of
the Quakers and also the inspiring
speeches of the three-day conference.

The Student Volunteer Conference in
North Carolina was formally opened
Kriday night by President ‘VT. FE. Rond-
thaler, UlON. C.. of the State Union.
Among the speakers who forcefully and
effectively presented the Call of Chris-
tian Service in Foreign Lands were Dr.
J. O} Reavis, of Columbia, S$. C., who
has'made several extensive trips ins mis-
sion fields, especially in Africa and the
Kast: Mr. H.C. Ostrum. a returned
missionary of ‘Tokushima, Japan, and
Dr. W. EL Browning, of Montevideo,
Uruguay, who is in charge of all educa-
tional work of the Protestant churches
in Latin America.

At the regular business meeting on
Saturday afternoon the new officers of
the Union were elected. Among them
were: Miss Janie Klutz, N.C. Col-
lege—State Normal, president; D. W.
Roberts, Davidson, vice-president, and
Miss Sue Erwin, N. C. College, secre-
tary.

On Saturday night the Y. M. C. A.
and Y. W. C. A. of the college gave an
informal recetpion for the delegates. The
evening was thoroly enjoyed by all pres-
ent. Each one vied with the other to see
who could fill their name book with the
signatures of those present. In this way
everyone came to know practically all
at the reception,

The conference was closed on Sunday

(Continued on page 6)
