Goodbye *19

Che

Hello ’20

avidsonia

FOR A GREATER DAVIDSON

y

Vol. VI. DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON. N. C.. MAY 28, 1919.
Baccalaureate Sermon Delivered Before : —

Large Throng by West Virginia Divine .

Dr. J. Layton Mauze, of Huntington, W. Va., Speaks On “Stability” Before
Class of 1919 at Davidson—Church Filled to Hear Splendid
Sermon-—Some Thoughts Advanced by Dr. Mauze.

The Baccalaureate Sermon of the
class of 1919 was preached by Rev. J.
Layton. Mauze, D.D., of Huntington.
West Virginia. Dr. Mauze chose Gen-
esis 49:4 as his text: “Unstable as wa-
ter thou shalt not excel.”

“The desire to excel in some one or
many different things,” he said, “is com-
mon to all human beings. It is the
main spring of human progress,” The
purpose of the men who established Da-
vidson College was to help young men
prepare themselves to excel.

Dr. Mauze said that the words of
his text might better be translated,
“Boiling over,as water thou sha!t not be
pre-eminent.” These words were first
used of Reuben when the dying Jacob
was blessing his twelve sons, but they
might be applied equally as well to
many men throughout the history of the
world. Napoleon Bonaparte, probably
the greatest military genius that this
world has ever seen, is a noteworthy ex-
ample of instability. He won brilliant
victories over his enemies for fifteen

Dr. Mauze closed with an appeal to
the Senior Class to take the moral stand-
ards of Christ as their own now that
they were going out to face the tempta-
tions of the world. Without them and
Him a man cannot be a success in the
deepest meaning of the word.

Dr. Lilly Explains “God’s
Method of Glorifying Life”

Davidson Hears Noted Winston Divine

—Y. M. C. A. Sermon Heard By
Large Crowd at Presbyte-
rian Church at Davidson.

The Y. M. C. A. sermon of Sunday

afternoon was delivered by Dr. D. Clay
His text was

Lilly, of Winston-Salem.
chosen from the ‘Transfiguration, and

his subject was “God's Method of Glor-

fying Life.”
Dr. Lilly's first lesson from this great

passage of Scripture was the reality of
spiritual existence. “This whole passaze
is the revelation of a scene of acep spir-
itual reality, with Christ, so much so
that all three Synoptic Gospel Writers
have recorded it. The Transfiguration
scene is a culmination of. his discourse
to his disciples a week before about his
death. The theme had remained upper-
most in his mind during the week, and
now, he had gone up on the mountain
to “talk it over” with God. So, it was
a time of great spiritual crisis with
Christ. To us, too, Dr. Lilly explained,

years but because he lacked stability he
was unable to stand three years of de-
feat, and. thereby lost his empire. On
the other hand, Frederick the Great,
though he. was a less brilliant leader,
commanded smaller armies and was
more often defeate-t, vet won the vic-
tory over a more powerful coafition than
that which opposed Napoleon.

The Roman idea, that a good man
was one who held to a fixed course, was
the dynamic force which enabled them
to subdue the world. The man who has

a fixed purpose will rise above the
masses; the man who has not can be no
highher than the animals.

Dr. Mauze then pointed out four
things in which a man should be stead-
fast. First, he should be steadfast in
study, a man’s studying should not end
with the receiving of his diploma but
should be continued throughout his life.
Two temptations will come to him in
reference to the books which he reads.
One of these is to confine his reading to
one subject and so to narrow instead of
broaden his outlook. The other is to
let his profession interfere with all
study. He cautioned the graduating
class to be on their guard against these
temptations,

Again, in friendship and love the
same stability is a necessity. No true
friendship can ever come about unless
there is a permanent affection between
the persons involved. Dr. Mauze em-
phasized the. fact that love had been
made too much of a joke. A.man should
choose a wife because of her good quali-
ties and sterling worth; not because she
had fine clothes. No marriage can be
a happy one which is not founded on
lasting love.

Success in a man’s life work must be
attained by pegging away; it does not
necessarily come as a result of brilliance.
Nothing is truer than the old proverb,
“A rolling stone gathers no moss.” If
the man who goes into a profession does
not have a well thought out plan of ac-
tion with the firm purpose of abiding by
it, he will never be a success,

Finally, stability of character is the
most important attribute of a man. Our
characters are the only part of us which
we will carry unchanged into the next
world. Success, even in this world, de-
pends in large part on our moral stand/
ards. Nine out of every ten failures is
caused by fickleness of chatacter. To-
day when the flower of Europe’s man-
hood is dead, shall not the youth of
America prepare itself for the service of
humanity?

come the needs often for a little talking
it over with God—a need for the real-

ity of spiritual existence.
Such a solution of problems, spiritual

and mental and physical, always meets
the Father’s approval; and that it meets

God

it in an increased call to service.

not enly gave the Son the desired com-

munion, the wanted answer that he
sought, He also sent His testimony of
Divine approval of His Son and his ac-
tions. And God in like manner glori-
fies in approval life today. He glori-

fies all who look toward Him in times

of spiritual crisis. But Dr. Lilly said
that when God glorifies a man and ex-
pands his vision and increases his great
powers of mind and soul, He also sends
an enlarged amount of work, more
preblems, and greater tasks to be ac:
complished. In fact, he declared, these
increasing tasks are evidence to us that
(sod is sending His approval. Then
piay for increased duties, for increased
service, for increased usefulness in life.
and in fulfilling these “talk them over”
with God.

Dr. Lilly very forcefully illustrated
this by referring to the life of our Presi-
dent, Woodrow Wilson. In the college
days of this great man there was little
to worry him but as he climbed the lad-
der of success from college student to
professor, college president, governor,
President of our country and finally to
the leader of world politics, he “took
more responsibilities on his shoulders.
So as time moves on, Dr. Lilly
said, those to whom he was speakirig,
would have to shoulder new responsi-
bilities.

The speaker ended his address by
appealing to the young men and their
friends to earnestly seek after those
things which were best in life and in
this way learn of “God's method of
glorifying life.

Belief in success makes success,

It is always interesting to prophecy a

little and when things look as favorable

as they do at present this is an easy job.
In football Coach Fetzer is planning for
the biggest season we hale ever had.
Most of last year’s team will be on hand

and other heroes of past years will be
back from the army and on the job.
The schedule is as hard as that of any
college or university in the South, in-
cluding Washington and Lee, South
Carolina, V. M. I.. Georgia Tech, A.
& E. of N. C., University of North
Carolina, Presbyterian College of South
Carolina, Furman, Guilford, and Wake
Forest. There is no doubt that a man
that makes next year’s team will sce and
have a part in the best college games in
this section of the country.

Four basketball men are sure to be
here with prospects of one or two more,
thus insuring a successful season in this
line. In baseball nine letter men will
probably furnish the basis for the new
squad. Most of these men have one or
two stars by their letter and if they
can’t beat everything in this part of the
country we want to know the reason
why. Intercollegiate athletics are get-
ting a new start all over the country.
Davidson is right with them in this
progress and is looking forward to the
biggest year in athletics as well as

‘everything else, in the history of the

college.

The outlook for intercollegiate ath-
letics in the fall of 1918 were exceed-
ingly dismal. Rules, regulations and
rumors caused the college sport writers
and speculators to look around for an-
other job. Reports to the effect that
athletics would be entirely abolished by
the government were met by all man-
ner of protests from the thousands of
college students and the endless line of
fans. However, it was soon seen that
Uncle Sam intended no such calamity

MISS ELIZABETH GREY

Sponsor for ‘The Davidsonian.

Athletic Prospects For
1919-1920 Very Favorable

Football, Basketball and Baseball Will All Have Excellent Schedules Next
Year—In Spite of Many Drawbacks the Wildcats Made
a Favorable Showing This Season.

and with the exception or one or two
everything went off smoothly.

Football.

Although football was slightly hin-
dered by lack of time for practice, and
the limits put on trips, the season at Da-
vidson) was exceptionally satisfactory.
At the first practice only four of the
past ‘year’s huskies answered to the roll
call. One of these was soon sent to
camp and the three remaining formed
the nucleus for the new team. Around
Spann, in the back field, and Crouch
and McMaster, on the line, Coach Fet-
zer began to build his machine. Of the
previous year's scrubs, Fischel, Brady,
Robson, Massey, McAlister, and White
showed up well and made a place on
the squad. Douglass and Johnston of
the new men made their letter and did
excellent work. McFadden, Sutton, C.
B. Robson, the Miley brothers, Cornel-
son, Le Far, and others also did splendid
work in helping to develop a winning
team.

The “flu’’ epidemic caused a serious
setback in the work of the team. Some
of the men never fully recovered from
the effects and were laboring under a
handicap throughout the entire season.
Despite these few difficulties we were
able to cop the state championship by
taking the measure of our ancient ri-
vals, North Carolina. It was the first
time we had done this for several years
but we've got the habit now and ex-
pect to repeat next season. Washing-
ton and Lee was also handed a healthy
drubbing. The only defeat suffered
was at Clemson, where the game was
played on a young pond, the swimming
meet ending with one touchdown to
their credit.

The record of the season is as fol-
lows:

(Continued on Page 7)

400 Students

Next Year

No. 28

Class of Nineteen Is Sent
Forth Into the World
As Alumni

Splendid Address is Heard—Dr. J. H.
McCracken, President of LaFay-
ette College, Delivers Com-
mencement Address
to Students.

Members of Davidson’s famous. sol-
dier class of 1919 are now alumni,

With the delivering of the graduation
address today by Dr. J. H. McCracken,-
president of LaFayette College, Easton,
Pit. the awarding of diplomas by Dr.
T. W. Lingle, president of the board
of trustees, and the delivery of the vale-
dictory by E. A. Woods, first honor man
of the class, the class of 719, considered
as an integral part of the college student
body, passed into history. "

Graduation exercises were very sim-
ple, due, no doubt, to the presence in
the graduating class of numbers of men
who have been wearing khaki, and who
but recently doffed the uniform of their
country to return for the cap and gown
of commencement day.

Diplomas were awarded to thirty-
nine Young men, fifteen receiving the
degree of bachelor of science ; twenty-one
receiving the degree of bachelor of arts
and three the degree of master of arts.
In addition to these degrees, honorary
degrees were conferred on the follow-
ing: Dr. J.P.) Munroe, Charlotte,
Doctor of Laws; Rev. B. R. Lacy, of
Atlanta, Doctor of Divinitv: Rev. D.
P. McGeachy, of Decatur, Ga., Doctor
of Divinity; Rev. W. T. Thompson, of
Knoxville, Tenn., Doctor of Divinity.

Proceedings were opened in the big
Commencement Hall by an invocation
offered by Dr. C. M. Richards, pastor
of the college church. Dr. ‘T. W. Lin-
tle, who presided aver the exercises, in
the absence of Dr. Wm. J. Martin.
president of the college, made a short
talk, introducing Dr. McCracken, who
delivered the literary address of the day.

Dr. McCracken, president of LaFay-
ette College, at Easton, Pa., delivered
one of the best commencement addresses
ever heard at Davidson. Scholarly,
erudite, polished, and yet filled with
hard facts and the straight essense of
good old common sense, Dr. McCrack-
en's address was one to hold the closest
attention of scholar and layman alike:

The speaker is one of those forceful-
looking, dynamic men, with a pair ot
humorous lips that persist. in smiling
even during the expression of his most
scrious thoughts, and with a face and
chin denoting the character and strength
of purpose that made him at one time
the youngest college president in the
United States, if not in the world.

He spoke on the subject. “Defining
the College man,” drawing his ilkustra-
tions from lessons taught by the world
war, and prefaced his address by a short
talk showing the community of interest
between the Carolinas and Pennsylvania,
his present abode.

Following the address by Dr. Mc-
Cracken, which was heartily applauded.
Emery Flinn, of Atlanta, delivered the
salutatory for the class, Mr. Flinn be-
ing second honor man of his class, and
this winning him this distinction.

Awarding of medals followed. — the
coveted Bible medal going to E. A.
Woods, of China, son of a missionary.
who was also valedictorian of his class.
The Senior Oratorical Medal went to
R. D. Hall. of Belmont, and the Junior
Oratorical Medal to D. M. Chalmers.
of Charlotte. The Alumni Association
Medal, for the highest honors in the
Freshman class. went to J. M. Rich-
ards, of Davidson. The latter medal
was presented by Dr. B. R. Lacy, of
Atlanta, the ‘Fighting Parson,” who

"(Continued on Page 7)

