8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, March 25, 1920.

Thies gives the delegation present at Davidson at the recent North Carolina Volunteer Conference. The mesting was a success in every sense of the word, and the only regret of the student body ie
t their stay was so short. A hearty invitation ie extended for them to meet with us again at an early date.

COURT OPENS SESSION. TRIED any person present was her true POWER of, SPIRITUALISM \ For optimism we have to hand it A FULL LINE OF PARKER “LUCKY
INTERESTING CAS) love. The plot thickened and the EAL ito the sports writer of the Concor oe
mysterious Alice took the stand. ON THE CAMPUS Tribune who informs us: “The first CURVE” FOUNTAIN PENS

W. S. HENDERSON, : Jeweler
DAVIDSON, NN. C.

half ended with the score 12-12 in
favor of the home team.”

The HOOVER & SMITH COMPANY
OFFICIAL FRATERNITY

Alice affirmed that no one took her

out of the car and that’ Son Phifer Mediums Walker. and Vance Per-

was at the wheel cussin. form Marvelous Feats With |
Turlington : “Have you any sweet- This Unseen Power.
heart in Davidson?” .

Alice: “N: h.” . . ;

Turlington: “Did you dance ?” ; Sir h Oliver bodge ould be
Alice: Naw sah.” brought to Davidson. oO; up eo
Turlington: “Then you must have|second thought we think best thet | : JE W ELE RS =

heen a wall flower.” Sir Oliver steer his course as far
Alice: “1 don't know”—(and from Da ‘dson as. ossibl The 661 Chestaut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.
ducking her head coyly she blushed Mavidisd asp ec.
Class in Spiritualism we have here,

a crimson red). id
At this juncture C. Gillispie, hear-| with Messers. Vance and Walker B oo0e § M ar k 4 t

of the first day. ing his name called, promptly replied| the most susccessful mediums yet
The first to arrive in the court|"pon standing, “This is me. discovered, would embarrass Sir’ Fresh
Meats

Two Exciting Cases on First Day's
Docket—Room in Rear of Tobe
Johneon’s Scene of Spirited Ac-
tion.

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA

UNIVERSITY, VA.

EDWIN A. ALDERMAN, D. D., Preeideat.
The followiag departments are represented: The
Cel he Department of Graduate Studies.
The Department of Lew. The Department of
Mediisne. The Department of Engineesing, The
Department of Education. The Summer Semicon.

Feee tuition to Virginia students in the Academic
Departments. Loen feads available. All other
expenses reduced to a minimum.

For berrsonsd information concerning the Uni-
versity 0} inte, address

THE REGISTRAR.

The spring session of superior
court of Davidson, N. C., was ush-
ered in on the balmy afternoon of
last Monday by the arrival of a chief
of police in full regalia and five Ford
loads of Mooresville attendants.
Small groups collected in front of
the stately edifice and in hushed and
smothered tones discussed the cases

room were the representatives of the' The defendants pleaded “not guil- Oliver with all of his vast amount of
Davidsonian, who took their seats in! ty” and all but oe Nos 3. acquitted. |nowledge of and power to com-'
the balcony. Justice of peace was Case No. municate with the dead.

then followed into the room by those
appearing on the first day’s docket.

he court was called to order and
the case read thus: That Son Phifer,
Son Sharpe, Dan Sharpe, Roy Coop-
er alias Slim, C. Gillespie, did unlaw-
fully, wilfully and feloniously create
a disturbance in the town of David-
son by drinking, cussing and. disor-
derly conduct. The witnesses of the
state were then sworn in, being Sam
Harris, Clarke Johnson, Murph
Withers, Charles Evans, Kenneth
McCorkle alias Bunny, Bell Johnson
and Alice,

Justice of Peace Charles Hamilton
then called Sam Harris, first witness
for the state, to relate what he
knew: Briefly his evidence was
thus: “On Saturday night, March
6, I was giving an entertainment.
There were present a Mooresville
crowd, and until 12:15 nothing hap-
pened. I told the Mooresville crowd
beforehand that they need not come.
The first thing 1 knowed there wuz
a fite in de yard and dey all cume up
on de frunt porch. I says, ‘Boys,
dere’s no use in fussin’. 1 says git
outer my yard, and going frum one

ter tother, they got on my dark side, |

and I saw a rough house was goin’
ter be.”

Lawyer Z. V. Turlington, for the
defendants, cross-examined the wit-
ness thus:

Turlington:
ing?”

Harris : “They’se under the fluence
of sumptin.”

Turlington: “This was s dance,|!earn that the Davidson Cand

and you charged 10 cents, which is
against the law. Now, Harris, the
fact of the matter is, a woman and
not wine, was the “fluence.”
Parks Johnson next sworn in.
(His evidence of no consequence).
Charlie Evans took the stand next.
Charlie: “I wuz overtaken on de
way to Cornelius and ‘bout 25 got
outer de car. Dey looked like dey
wuz goin after me, and ‘bout dat
time I begun to disappear.”
Turlington: “ Weren't

you
drunk ?”

Evans: “Naw sah, my eyes were- ;

n't eclipsed dat night.”

h Withers takes stand and
corroborated the statement of
Evans.

Kenneth McCorkle told briefly
how the hall was packed and he lost
his hat, which caused the commo-
‘tion. Upon asking Slim, of Moores-
ville, to look in the car for his hat,
he was greeted with an oath. To
settle a question as to whether he
jerked a woman out of the car, Bell
Johnson was called to the stand.

Bell Johnson stated that she left
the car of her own free will, and
upon being questioned denied that

“Were they drink-—

t

This was against LeRoy Cooper . : , ° a
and Son Phifer, for the disorderly Now Davidson’s class in spiritual-

conduct in case 1, and against LeRoy '5™ is interesting the whole student
Cooper for carrying a concealed body with tales told the morning
weapon. after their nightly seances._ Indeed
LeRoy Cooper: “Aint never had 1€ 15 remarkable to hear of a table
a pistol in my life and don’t eben, Knocking on the floor when four
” eet S are resting on it. But you,
ida Philee: “Didn' nary a one of |#in’t heard nothing yet! t
us have a pistol—a very few of us|! for A, 2 for B, 3 for C, etc.—words,
even had pocket knives,” sentences, yea prophecies and un-:
Parks Johnson: “Yes, sir, he flus-|Known facts are made _ known!
tered a gun at us and it looked like | Honest, its wonderful. Why, the
blue steel to me.” (Imagine a blue | Class one night was told to within:
steel pistol being distinguished on a|5iX cents how much money Medium
dark night, if you can). Prat ak pad in ais pocket. _On the
“ » |first night, Medium Vance in open-
ty” nade were ants pleaded not guil- ing the seance, asked if there were!
Court adjourned . any spirits present that they kindly
° raise the table on two legs. Fred
Thompson affitms that the violence
‘of the response (from the spirits)
nearly turned the table over. After
Mr. ‘and Mrs. F, P. Hall, of Bel- , this the spirit gave his name as Jo
mont, spent a short time on the Hill Jo, and said that he was a good
Sunday. spirit. Later in the evening the
. class was exasperated by one Otto,
Dr. and Mrs. Hamilton and Mr. a spirit claiming to be of the tribe
and Mrs. Statton visited Davidson! of Beelzebub. His perversity in an-
Sunday. ‘swering questions calls forth a bold
. jvolley of virtuperative language
The Davidson students are happy from the class and he is advised to
at the return of Colonel Sloan, Con- “go home.” A feminine spirit has
federate veteran and friend of all been introduced to Davidson's
the boys. Colonel Sloan has been on Spiritualism Class, but unlike mortal
an extended trip to Virginia, visit- women, she will not talk much. Her
ing Norfolk, Newport News, and name is Isabel. Even Sir Oliver
other cities. must confess that these are undeni-
able manifestations of Spirits!
The members of the Freshman It is impossible to give you an|
class will no doubt be interested to, idea of the impressiveness of a
: seance. They are held in a room
Kitchen has again commenced sell-! where only the red glare from a
ing ice cream cones at five cents stove and glowing cirgarettes here
each. ‘and there pierce the darkness. Ab-
solute silence reigns, save when one
of the mediums address a spirit and

CAMPUSISMS.

TWO UNKNOWNS TO BATTLE

‘hands of seven men, begins to.creak
On Wednesday and Thursday two and scrape, and, finally, to tap out
unknown quantities will meet on the messages.
Sprunt field to battle, and although! Sir Oliver would marvel at the
the strength of the Oak Ridge team strength and clearness and accuracy
is unknown we feel confident of of the spirits’ talk here at Davidson.
overcoming the visitors. The hand of this eminent spiritualist
No reports from the enemy’s, would be heartily extended to every
camp have reached Davidson as yet,;member of our Spiritualist Class,
but it has been learned that they congratulating them upon their
have a_ strong team, numbering; successful undertaking and their
among its players some men who | strong faith with which they em-
played on that team two years ago brace the greatest discovery of the
‘which was only scored on four times age. But I doubt if Sir Oliver could
during the whole season. | stand one of our class’s seances. If
Oak Ridge has always had a.he saw the feats performed by that
strong team which has always given table in 41 Chambers, his hair would
Davidson good games, and their | stand on end; and, a nervous wreck,
sportsmanship has been above re- he would leave Otto and Jo Jo and
proach. . ‘Isabel and all other Davidson spirits
—_______ to our grave sons, content himself
Mrs. Lingle’s mother, Mrs. Sou-.to commune_ with the less fierce
ther, of St. Louis, and her sister, ghosts of Bloody Mary, Oliver
Mrs. Craig, of New York City, spent, Cromwell, and Queen Elizabeth in
a few days here recently. |“merrie England!

WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY the table, whereon rest the a

At All 1 imes
GENTLEMEN

By raps:; Wher in Need of Ton-

sorial Work, give

us a trial

Norton Barber Shop

Next to Postoffice

¢

ARROW
“Troy Jailored
SOFTCOLLARS

OLWSTT, PEABODY & CO... INO..

A Better Davidson is Our Goal.

, DAVIDSON COLLEGE.

DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped

| Laboratories !
i

HERE’S A TRIUMPH
FOR PROHIBITION

How It Has Furnished the World With a
Valuabie Beverage.

While the forces of prohibition were
working to the end that alcohol should
be banished fronr the U. 8.. there was
one man who was working along a
different Hne, from either side in the
question. For seven yeirs this man
labored in Chicago. to the perfection
of an idea he had conceived, that
lager beer had never in the past been
properly made.

When war time prohibition became
uw fact, this man was not yet ready
with the perfection of his ‘de.. hence
brewers began the making of u new
unfermented “near Leer,” a crude. un-
digestible, unhealthfal product. which
nevertheless soid In large quanti.ies
everywhere. ;

On july 19, of this year, tne U S
governmeat issued letters patent to
this man. for a new plan of brewing
and finishing beer, which he cla:ms
should have been in use years ago to
make beer a perfectly ideal beverage
for -verybody, and in fact superior to
any known drink for all the family.

A crude experiiuental plant was first
ere-ted in Chicago, which proved per-
fect in working detail. Immediately
the Golden Grain Juice Company, of
Minneapolis, contracted for. this pat-
ent plant, which the had in working
order Oct. 30th, at a cust of $350,000.

This new product, known as MIN-
NEHAHA. pale and special (light and
dark), goes back fifty years in brew-
ing to the good old rich brew of the
old country. Modern beer contained
but little barley. being made mostly
of corn, rice. grains. meals, etc. The
new patent brew is made of only bar
ey and hops; it ie thoroly fermented
nd aged for four months. It is thus
rich in digestive properties and high
flavor.

Just before filtering and pasteuriza-
tion. the patent process is introduced,
which by vacuum, and without bofl-
ing. removes the high wines (alcohol)
but not one whit of th. low wines
(col and flavor). Taste alone would
not and could not detec. that the
alcohol was absent. It proved to be
exhilarating. however, because of the
hops and carbonic gas.

The Chicago scientist has proved
that alcohol was not necessary in
beer, that in fact it was a detriment,
and eo prohibition had a use it was
never designed.to, for it perfected
brewing to a point never dreimed of
before. ¢

Minnehaha, pale and special, wil'
be shipped to any part { .e Unite!
States by the Golden Grain Juice Co.,
Minneapolis, U, 8. A.—Advertiron.e.
