THE DAVIDSONIAN, March 4, 1920. 5

| writing it so au reville or whatever| speaking adventures was volunteer-
PEANUT PARCHER it is. ed by a promirient Senior:
“I asked her if she’d ever learn to. THE RALEIGH Cl ;
-Twentieth Century Martyrs: love me, | thing
T. H. SPENCE, Editor The Judges. And saw her glow and answer with 0
a smile: |
She remarked as her hero ceased|‘What, my dear, do you think I’ve’ CHARLOTTE’S BEST CAFE For
speaking been learning |) |! | \
i i l y learni th t \
While the hall with applause was! In my learning or the last long }. T. MATTHEWS, Prop. S . |
Tis well he has done the speaking pring
now Hawkins—“He s ade d .
For I'll do it in later life. speech.” = fare mans @ BOON | BREW. Trade St. Phone 3486 | We are receiving every day ship-
: , Friend—“What did he talk | ments of clothing from
To get attention, forget your} apoyt?”
speech. | T. W. H.—“Don’t know, he didn’t! Campus Togs |
say.” .
When the girls have all gone home- L A ELLI OTT Fashion Park
ward, . Chambers has again been recon- e fhe Hirsh Wicken |
| And when speung is all one de verted from a garage to a barn. |
. ° And you're seen you
Speaking of Speakings. y away CANDIES and

Agoing one by one If Diogones was in business now

: : e e imb
We got just what we wished for|When reviews are_all ’er piling up) hed probably be in search of a man Kincaid & Kimball
ch the ceiling who hadn’t written a forum article
My boy, o

FRUITS, ETC.

All things came as per order As tho they'd re . : 1 ’

This is the verdict of those who saw | Ain't? , , aint it on the R. O. T. C. ; mcra are none better or we would
“Much fire and Little water.” “A grand and glorious feeling.” ' See me for your feeds Come look them over
We meant to run an article on: .

stealing this week, but this paper!

we're using is er—borrowed. |

|

|

Speaking is spoken, and everyone} We heard “White Coal” and saw
is duly thankful. There were many! White rain.
bad speeches but these were un-
noticed for there -were many far
worse. Everyone congratulated
everyone else on having made a

WE DELIVER

I reflect when. I hear the kicker
holler
About how the eagle’s grown’

The trail was long—tho wide and
| steep
| And fear-inspired unto all

good speech, and some may have.. ; : ators li small

We didn’t go to all the Inquisitions. Which teoo Junior orators like ‘That it’s better to live with a 4-bit, THE BEST FRESH MEATS
The show was greatly enjoyed by) ‘To torture friends in Shearer Hall. dollar

all—especially the briefness of its Than to live with no §$ at all. Phone orders Solicited.
duration. he low temperature

which prevailed reminded many of We missed the good speech. an: ;
the boys of the usual absence of lhings to be thankful for: —

heat from their rooms and created| All the Chapel lacked of being a That there were not 61 Juniors. WHITE'S MARKET
several cases of room-sickness. barber shop was a barber.
Suppose you're tired of reading this | Rain is as essential tu Junior .
stuff and we sure we're tired of| The following account of his|Speaking as a sun is to a sun-rise. Phone 25-W. Cornelius, N.C.

Research Laboratory

The research facilities of the General Electric Company
are an asset of world-wide importance, as recent -war
work has so clearly demonstrated. Their advantages | Eprint the Dav}

in pursuits of peace made them of inestimable value W P , ¢ Davideon College
in time of war. | ct Magazine, the Davidsonian, and

Amos inerning sry wl of te device eclvd which me many other GOOD publications
ean ci ction evtecs : the sending, without a wire, history-making messages and ordera magazine to describe them--but we have room for
X-ray tube for medical service 1 aoe atsignod fer held hospital upeand a notable comtribation # your work. Give us a trial.

Radio telephone and telegraph the military surgical service. And many other products, for both com-

Electric welding and applications batant and industrial use, did their full share in securing the victory.
Searchlignts for the Army and Navy

In the laboratories are employed highly trained physicists, chemists,
Electric furnaces for gun shrinkege metallurgists and engineers, some of whom are experts of inter-
Magneto insulation for air service nationat reputation. These men are working not only to convert
Detonators for eubmasine mines the resources of Nature to be of service to man, but to increase

Incendiary and smoke bombs the usefulness of electricity in every line of endeavor. Their Inquiries solicited and prompt att ention

Fixation of nitrogen achievements benefit every individual wherever electricity is used.

Substitutes for materials Scientific research works hand in hand with the development of new
devices, more efficient apparatus and processes of manufacture. It guaranteed.
results in the discovery of better and more useful materials and ulti-
mately in making happier and more livable the life of all mankind,

Booklet, Y-863, describing the company’s plante, PRESBYTERIAN STAND ARD

will be mailed upon request. Address Desk 37

PUBLISHING CO.
General@Electric CHARLOTTE, N.c

216 N. TRYON ST. PHONE 643

Ate ee en a
The Service of an Electrical | -_ LS

seealone Company aneme *

