4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, May 7, 1928.

The DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
to Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before
412 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

}: E, CASSELL...... weeeccenancccncecnncencene Editor-in-Chief
. M. RICHARDS Managing Editor
A. P. ORMOND. a. -Assistant Managing Editor
. P. PRICE..... -Assignment Editor
R. DOUBLES wecececcnncnccecccnnnecececneee-~aeAthietic Editor

C. J. MATTHEWS..........--...- n-nonane ee ene nen ne eee e ne n----Alumni Editor
. eCASKI wecnenannnne aocncesncna------Exchange Editor
R. BOULWARE, JR....2--20.- onan naan nn nn none neceeweneeeneneeee-Forum Editor

. M. DUNLAP-......_..-......__-.___-.---------.---------------- == Campus Editor
. W. ROBERTS... nnn nnn nnn wannnnnennonee--e----~=--¥. M. C. A. Editor
HL A. HILL... enn nnn enn n nnn nn nme ewe own cece cence necceceeesee--50cial Editor
ié GASTON, JR..2c-necncccnecceeccencennnccccncccceccccccesnece Literary Editor
R. McILWAINE...........-...----------------------------Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB

E. N. BOOKER W. P. CUMMING
R. T. L. LISTON R, BITZER

C. E. CUNNINGHAM M. W. DOGGETT
J. M. GILMER J. W. PHILLIPS
A. C. SUMMERS E. H. TUFTS

Additional Reporters: J. H. Davis, G. W. Mauze, H.

H. Smith, E. Fewell,
|. A. Thames, . Davidson, C. D. Tuller, W. J. Cooper, M. P.

Calhoun, J. T.

R.

ilkes, D. H. Ogden, T. L. Frazer, P. Brown, C. Green, W. T. Elliott, H. M.

Morris, A. D. King, C. G. Long, A. C. Ormond, $H Denny, J. F. Clark.
BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

A. G, OLTMAN...._..----~--------- 2-2-2 n+ nnn enna n= -- ee Business Manager
E. A. NASH :
J.S. CURRY wennnnn nnn nenenneen nen nccenee ene cecee----c22-- Assistant Managers
. CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT: .
¢C ING.__......-----. mee rwenecececencrewecrrenen esses eee! Circulation Manager

H. LON
J. C. WOOL......----..-~------2-----2----7------+-------------Assistant Manager
Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

It is to be hoped that the rumor about our enlarged athletic field
will have the beauty of the rainbow without its intangibility, and that
it will materialize into a reality.

Have you started working on your part of the Five Hundred for
next year? Right now is a good time to begin this splendid work for
Old Davidson.

With teams representing her in intercollegiate football, baseball,
basketball, track, tennis and golf, Davidson’s curriculum in athletics
seem to have about approached a high water mark.

No doubt the whole student body is intensely interested in the ap-
roaching debates with Randolph-Macon and Mercer, and we are look-
ing with confidence to our debating teams to uphold the high reputa-
tion of Davidson in this phase of college activity. This is an important
part of the work here, and should be given the full recognition that it
deserves. .

IT IS YOUR DUTY.

AVE you ever remained for Commencement? If not, your pres-
H ence is most earnestly sought this year. Forget that desire to get

home in such a big rush, for three days won’t make any differ-
ence. Besides, after you get there you won't do a thing but rest, so why
not get it right here on the campus. You will have a big time, for Com-
mencement offers a good opportunity of chumming with all the fellows
and meeting the alumni who are always here, not to say anything cbout
the fair sex who are present here in the greatest number.

If you have ever stayed for Commencement you will instinctively
know that there is something wrong in spite of the good time you are
having. The trouble is easily detected, as it is due to the fact that so
few students remain over for the final exercises. Other colleges force
their students to remain, but this has never been the policy here, al-
though the Trustees have considered such a thing. We believe it would
be a good plan, but as it is not in vogue we can only urge the students
to stay over this year any how. More alumi are expected than ever
before, so we want to show our co-operation by being on hand. How
about it? Let’s remain and make this commencement a fitting climax
to the greatest year in the history of Davidson College.

HOW HAVE YOU SPENT IT?

OW that the exam. schedule has been printed, the fact is brought

home to us very forcibly that this school year is rapidly drawing

to a close, and with this being realized it would not be amiss for
each individual to take stock of just what he has accomplished during
the past nine months. ,

- It goes without saying that every student came to Davidson with
high ideals and the determination to get the best that this institution
had to offer as well as give his best in return. So as you make this
retrospective view ask yourself this question: “Have I made good?”
To have done so, it is not necessary that you are an Honor Roll man
or a star in athletics, but that you have spent your time in honest work
and service.

If the records do not answer in the affirmative, then we indeed
sympathize with you. Yet do you deserve sympathy? Have you em-
ployed your time to the best advantage, or have you let trifles sup-

lant the bigger and better things? Question yourself honestly, and
if it is your fault, then in the remaining month of this session make a
wholehearted effort to redeem those first promises made to yourself.

If on the other hand the records answer in the affirmative, you are
to be congratulated, for without hard and tiresome work this could
never have been accomplished. Yet do not be guilty of the complacent
feeling of self-satisfaction, for there are perhaps a good many things
that -you can better and improve in many ways.

hus to the one who has failed we would urge that he come back
strong with renewed efforts in order to regain the lost ground, and to
the one who has succeeded we would urge on to even greater achieve-
ments, which in each case will prove not only beneficial to the indi-
vidual so doing, but also to all those with whom he comes in contact.

| Open Forum |

MORE ON THE POINT SYSTEM.

Several weeks ago there appeared
in the Forum an article which advo-
cated a change in the point system,
and especially putting the R. O. T.
C. commissioned offices on point
basis with other collegiate activi-
ties. I heartily agree with Mr. “P.
D. Q.,” but believe that the change
should be carried farther.

The purpose of the point system,
as outlined in the above article, is
“to make a division of the outside
duties so that no man will have
more work than he can successfully
carry on, and at the same time give
as many as possible an opportunity
for an experience and training not
provided for in the regular curri-
culum.”

The constitution of the student
body proved itself inadequate, and
was revised; the point system is
showing itself inadequate and
should be revised. Take the Band,
for instance—the position of leader
and of manager require much time
and work, and of right should be
given credit under the point system
—say the leader of two points and
the manager one point. The Glee
Club leader should receive credit,
too.

The membership to the board of
control of the Y. M. C. A. should
count equal as the Y cabinet, for
each alike has its work and respon-
sibility. The board of control is a
recent organization, being organiz-
ed only last year, and has charge of
the financial end of the Y work.

And the commissioned officers of
the R. O. T. C. should certainly be
under the point system. Those of-
ficers have much more work than
what is required for the drill. Three
points for the major, two for the
captains, and one for the lieuten-
ants and possibly the first sergeant
will do lots to turther the purpose
of the point system. D. P. X.

LIBRARY NEWS.

Another portrait which has been
added to the library is that of First
Lieutenant Charles Dodd Montgom-
ery, 09. After graduating at Da-
vidson he went to the Atlanta Law
School, where he graduated in 1912.
Lieutenant Montgomery was killed
at the Bois de Foret on the Meuse-
Argonne Front, on October 15, 1918.

Among books relating to the east-
ern situation (which is growing in
importance to America) are the fol-
lowing, recently added:

The Democratic Movement
Asia—Tyler Dennett.

The New. Map of Asia—Herbert
Adams Gibbons.

The Fight for the Republic in
China—B. L. Putnam Weale.

Contemporary Politics in the Far
East—Hombeck.

The Awakening of Asia—H. M.
Hyndman.

Democracy and the Eastern Ques-
tion—Thomas F. Millard.

The International Relations of the
Chinese Empire—H. B. Moree.

RUSSIAN SITUATION
REVEALED IN
INTERESTING NOVEL

On a list of the twenty best books
to read, one of the first mentioned
was “Anna Karenina,” by Tolstoi,
which shows that to the thoughtful
reader, some consideration should
be taken of this great Russian writ-
er. Not long ago a book by a Polish
writer was reviewed. Now is a good
time to make a comparison.

Russia, a land of mystery and bar-
barism to the average reader, is
shown in a delightful light so that
one might well exclaim: “The
world’s the same all over the globe!”
To read a little of Russian literature
should aid materially in destroying
the idea that all of Russia is made
up of that horrible giant, unshaven,
dirty, with huge fur hat, sword in
hand, and called “Russia” by Amer-
ican cartoonists, After all, that is
where most of us get our impression
of that great land over the seas.

Anna Kerenina is the wife of a
high official in the government. Her
beauty attracts much attention and
many are her devoted admirers.

EXC HP

G
ts 4 f
TOME

Read the Exchanges in the “Y”
Room.

W. & L. Students and Faculty Do
Manual Labor in Construction

in
of Athletic Field.

The students and even the faculty
of Washington and Lee University
are daily working on their athletic
field. The workers have been divid-
ed into two teams, the Whites and
the Blues, and sharp competition is
seen in removing the dirt from the
field. Thus far 125 cubic yards of
dirt has been removed—Ring Tum

i.

Tech Rifle Team Wins Two Matches
Gets Ready for National Match.
The rifle team of Ga. Tech has

defeated the teams of University of
South Carolina and Wofford Col-
lege. The South Carolina team was
defeated by the score of 483 to 447.
In the Wofford match Tech scored
1,885 out of a possible 2,000 points,
while Wofford was able to secure
only 1,715. The team will probably
begin practice with service rifles on
the range at Fort McPherson in the
near future, in order to prepare for
the national match.—Technique.

College Men Assist the Railroads.

During the recent railroad strike
men from Princeton, Pennsylvania,
Lafayette, and other colleges left
their classes and boarded the big
locomotives and went to work, fir-
ing and braking on the trains.

“This opportunity,” says the La-
fayette, “showed that college men
are real red-blooded American men,
with the vigor and stamina which
has always characterized the Amer-
ican people.”

The faculty of Vanderbilt have
passed a rule that absences immedi-
ately before or immediately after a
holiday shall count double.——The
Vanderbilt Hustler.

Vanderbilt and the Fresh.
“Owing to the fact that the Fresh
class has departed greatly from the
ancient and honorable customs, and
especially because a majority have
failed noticeably to wear the green
caps, immediate steps will be taken
to suppress the Freshmen and to
impress them with the fact that they
are not yet in full charge of Vander-

bilt."—The Vanderbilt Hustler.

Service and the College Student.

The recnt Student Volunteer Con-
ferences and other forces seem to
have had a great effect upon the
colleges through the country. The
one thought that seems to be pre-

First among these is a handsome
young officer, Count Vronsky. From
the complex plots of family life, the
master hand of Tolstoi draws the
threads and weaves a stury which
has been declared great by the vnice
of public opinion.

dominant is that of service. The
exchanges this week are carrying
appeals to the students to forget
their selfishness and devote their
lives to: the service of Christ and
humanity. The following selected
verse printed in the editorial of the
Orange and White, of the Univer-
sity of Tennessee, expresses the
creed that U. T. wishes to adopt:
“T would be true, for there are those
who trust me;
I would be pure, for there are
those who care;
I would be strong, for there is much
to suffer ;
I would be brave, for there is
much to dare.
I would be friend of all—the foe,
the friendless ;
I would be giving and forget the

gilt ;
I would be humble for I know my
weakness ;
I would look up-and laugh—and
love—and lift.” ,
The editorial continues by sayin
that “The student who can not lift
for the true purpose of serving his
University has no right to be num-
bered among that large number of
loyal workers who are in the ma-
jority.

THE PRICE OF SUCCESS
By Edgar A. Quest

If you haven't the patience to work
and wait,

To build with precision and lay your
brick straight ;

If you haven't the courage to grin
now and then

When the structure falls down, and
to start in again,

Just remain where you are and be
satisfied, too,

For the hazards out there will be
too much for you.

If you can’t stand alone in the thick
of the fight,

And persist in your course when
you know you are right;

If you can’t keep your faith when
‘it’s greeted with sneers,

And still go for the goal which but
dimly appears,

Don’t leave the broad highway to
carve out a new,

For the hardships out there will be
too much for you.

If you .can’t get along without
flatt’ry or praise,

And the comforts and joys of these
wonderful days;

If you tire over quickly or cringe
at a blow,

Or think it no use when your pro-
gress is slow;

If you’re one who must have every-
thing his own way,

Then the price of success you're not
willing to pay.

But if you will take all the fates
have to give,

Stand hardships and setbacks, still
glad that you live;

If you cling to your faith and keep
plodding along

When disasters beset you and every-
thing’s wrong;

If you're willing to battle and never

give in,
Go after your dream, for in time
you will win.

F you would know real emoke contentment, j
| a WDC Pipe full of your favorite tobe "Ther one

know what a real French briar is, and what the

en you'll
Demuth

seasoning will do to make it break in sweet and mellow.

Ask any

pick yours,

Woe. DEMUTH & CO.. NEW YORK

WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES

good dealer to show you a variety of shapes, then

