4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 24, 1920.

The DAVIDSONIAN

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before
12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

J. E. CASSELL........---------------------------~----------------- Editor-in-Chief
j. M. RICHARDS.__....-.-.--------~------------------2--2------ Managing Editor
A. P. ORMOND..-...----------------------- +: Assistant Managing Editor
J. P. PRICE...----.---------------- ---Assignment Editor
M. R. DOUBLES... pnnon--. a------Athletic Editor
C.J. MATTHEWS. 2o---------- 2 ==. -------Alumni Editor
J. C McCASKILL.....-.. pennnunecenanananen=--a-2-----e--------Exchange Editor
R. BOULWARE, JR.-...----------------------------------------Forum Editor
J. M. DUNLAP.--_~._.----_~-----.------~---------2----- 2-222 --<2-- Campus Editor
D. W. ROBERTS...----------- 2-2-2 22 n= - enn nne-------¥. M. C, A. Editor
‘HL A, HILL WWW nnn nnn enn nen en nen nnn enn n n-ne 7 -Social Editor
. M. TON, JR..----.----------~----------2-~-----++~----------Literary Editor
k 7 OAS LWAINE aaa wennanesucnne-----------Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB

BAILEY, J. C.
BITZER, R. ONG, C.
COOPER, W. J. MAUZE
CUNNUNGHAM, C. E.
DAVIDSON, R. F.

GAMBLE, W. A.
L . G.

GW.
MITCHELL, A. M.
PHILLIPS, J. W.

WOOL, J. C.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

McKEITHAN, J. H.
OGDEN, D. H.
ORMAND, A. C.
SUMMERS, A. C.

A. G. OLTMAN.......~--.--------------22---- =o o-oo nee Business Manager
E. A. NASH wecnnneeee-----2- ee wono------------Assistant Managers
J. S. CURRY .

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT: ; ;
C. H. LONG.--....-..---------.-------- +--+ -- 2-2 += = Circulation Manager
J. C: WOOL...--..~-----------------------20----------2- 2-2-2 Assistant Manager

EDITORIAL

“The world is so full of a number of things,

I’m sure we should all be as happy as kings.”

Patronize‘our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

The anti-prohibitionists are not the only ones who can claim a loss
of their rights of personal liberty. The new Absence Regulations place

us in a similar plight.

The team leaves Friday night for one of the hardest games of the
season. Don't fail to be at the station to give them a rousing send-

off. We owe it to them.

The Freshman Class has been duly honored by being given the seat
of honor in the new chapel room, as they now occup the front rows of

this great assembly.

The Varsity-Scrub game Saturday would indicate that the Wild-

cats are growing wilder every hour.

We are glad to welcome the band back on the job so early in the

season.

Their music is the infallible way of rousing the old Davidson

spirit. The men composing this organization should have the great-
est recognition since their effortsfill a long felt need on our campus.

It is hard for us to understand how a man can take a pennant or
a light that does not belong to him. Such an act should be put on the

same plane as cheating.

THINK TWICE.

J

campus.

T is needless to say that the student body deeply regrets that
reports have gone out to the effect that there is hazing on the
The upperclassmen of this institution cannot help feeling

. that this is aW injustice to them, for we know absolutely that there is
no organized or promiscuous hazing on the Hill. The Fresh Parade, a
custom for years at Davidson, was done away with as well as all
other signs of rowdyism on the part of the old men. In view of these

things it is quite evident that the reports are entirely false.

As older brothers we would advise the new men that they con-
sider thoughtfully just what they are writing home about the hazing
conditions here. Nota single one of them want the outside worltl to

cast an
letter

reflection on the conduct of Davidson men,
ome about having received one or two paddlings might create

eta

thoughtless

this’ very result. It will never do any good to write happenings of this
nature to outsiders, for they are so apt to misconstrue the true mean-
ing of things. If you have any cause of complaint, carr
the Student Council. This is the duty of that body of students, and they
will investigate the matter throughly. Any other method of trying
to put down hazing will only cause confusion and false reports.

Then finally we would like to say that this hazing business, as far
as Davidson is concerned, is a two-sided affair any way. What few

paddlings are given here, are you sure that you do not deserve

it direct to

it?

hen a new man tries to act pert or sarcastic with an old student, “jib-
ing” to express it in campus vernacular, it is entirely fitting that he

should be reminded of his sphere of life here on the campus,

ing the old maxim somewhat differently
e

dle and spoil the Freshman,” and for a

ing.”

Phras-

: we would say “Spare the pad-
w new men guilty of the above
offense we know of no more effective remedy of keeping clearly before
him the fact that he does not enjoy the privileges of an upperclass-
man than by disregarding this principle.
this is the only recourse left when a Freshman is guilty of “chronic jib-

Therefore, .it is

uite plain

In conclusion we repeat.that the hazed student should ask himself
the question whether the paddling was incurred because of a contempt
for college customs. If so, the less said concerning the matter the

better.

If not, before writing to an outsider about it, think twice and

- even then don’t write. Take the sensible way out by carrying your
complaint to the Student Council, who will see that you get justice.

| Open Forum |

WHY NOT PLACE THIS IN
THE NEW CONSTITUTION?

“No student shall play musical in-
struments after 8 p. m. This in-
cludes banjos, mandolins, ukeleles,
bugles, any band instrument, victro-
las or any kind of music producing
instrument.”

In 1916 approximately the above
quotation was in the student gov-
ernment constitution. It was a very
reasonable article and mote benefi-
cial than some of us may think. It
was beneficial not only from the
standpoint that your neighbor next
door upstairs was relieved from
hearing the sweet melodies that car-
ry his mind from his studies to his
girl back home—but it meant that
our young music enthusiasts were
more able to lay down their pet
“uke” or mandolin just because they
were honor bound to do so. In
those days we were not disturbed
about 10 o’clock by a few “pep ar-
tists” that forgot about the other
fellow’s privileges-and derailed their
trains of thought from the narrow
,;channels that must be followed in
the pursuit of a scholastic educa-
tion.

There were victrolas in the dor-
mitories which added to the pleas-
ure of quite a few and there was but
one case where reprimand was
made. The question has been raised
—Why do we have to listen to these
sweet toned instruments when the
evening draws nigh and that im-
pulse must be obeyed—to get up
those tickets?

Shall we tolerate this unnecessary
situation or amend our constitution
in order to help each other?

E. Pluribus Unum.

R. O. T. C. APPOINTMENTS

(Continued from page 1)

McGeachy, D. P., Co. A.

Lowry, T. M., Co. B.

Summers, A. C., Co. C.

Wool, J. C., Co. D.

Freeman, D. R,, Band Leader.

Cadet staff non-commissioned of-
ficers—staff sergeants :

McLeod, W. M., Battalion Sgt.
Mjr.

5 Miller, P. D., Battalion Supply
gt.

Parks, J. L., Personnel Sgt. Mjr.

Bitzer, R., Personnel Sgt. Mjr.

To be color sergeants;

Morton, L. T.

McLaughlin, J. C. B.

To be sergeant-bugler:

Robinson, C. W.

To be drum-major (Ist Sgt. of
Band):

Story, S. D.

Company non-commissioned offi-
cers—Ist sergeants:

Tufts, E. H., Co. A.

fashion, E. G., CoB.

night, R. J., Jr., Co. C.

McCukin, "1 “4 Co. D.

To be supply sergeants:

Moore, Ww W., Co. A.

Clark, J. F., Co. B.

Lowrance, D. W., Co. C.

Neel, G. N., Co. D.

To be sergeants:

Company A—Davidson, R. F.;
Houghton, E. E.; Mauze, G. W.;
Denniston, C. L.; Ogden, D. H.;
Cooper, W. J.; Heiser, M. B.

Company B—Crawford, C. R.;
Hall, R. L.; Moss, C. A.; Gordon, R.
A.; Grey, J. H.; Roberts, G. B.

Company C—Martindale, C. B.;
Hotbrook, E. ii Smith, H. H.;
Wiley, E. F.; Thames, F. C.; El-
liott, W. T.

Company D—Blue, R. E.; Bern-
hardt, J. D.; Calhoun, W. G.; Brad-
ey, 5: H.; Hunter, J. V.; Morton,
To be corporals:

Company A—Adams, J. M.;
Brawley, J. F.; Baldwin, J. W.;
Brake, R. C.; Carr, W. B.; Cor-

nelius, K.
Company B—Covington, W. E.;
Dantzler, M. O.; Davis, S. M.; Few-

ell, E., Jr.; Frazer, T. L.; Gamble,

W. A,, Jr.

;Company C—Gibson, A. Viger
nings, E. D.; Lewis, H. E.; McCloy,
J. D.; McKay, S. G.; McLeod, R. L.

Company McRainey, G. H.;
Morris, H. M.; Northrop, H. F.;
Rodde ae? Russell, H. ; Strei-
bich, C .

EXCHPNGE
OL m2

AS

Read the exchanges in the “Y”
Room.

South Carolina Begins New Year in
Grand Style—Sol Metzger to
Coach Football Squad.

Every phase of college life and
college activitity was ably set forth
at the annual college night held in
the chapel last night when represen-
tatives of the various parts of cam-
pus life called urgently upon the
students for support in their
branches in particular and all others
in general.

Coach Sol Metzger said that col-
lege spirit had been defined as being
an intangible thing, but that it seem-
ed to him to be very tangible —Co-
lumbia State.

Coach Sol Metzger is the new
coach that the University of South
Carolina has secured and alumni and
friends of the institution are count-
ing on his putting ott the best foot-
ball team that Carolina has had in
years. Metzger is an authority on
football and is known all over Amer-
ica as a coach of no mean ability.

It may be that England can’t car-
ry out her policy’ in Ireland -because
she is kept too busy carrying out
constables.

Many great inventions are acci-
dental discoveries, and some home
biew artist may yet discover a sub-
stitute for gasoline.

Why not make this proposed
world court a tennis court There
would be an abundance of rackets.—
Gastonia Gazette.

At a ball game between a South
Carolina negro team and a visiting
team of similar nationality, a negro
preacher was acting as umpire. The
pitcher was somewhat wild and had
allowed the bases to be filled. An-
other man came to the bat and the
nervous pitcher shot one over.

“Ball one!” yelled the ump.

The pitcher tried again.

“Ball two,” announced the ump.

Another effort by the hurler.

“Ball three!” greeted his efforts.

The pitcher saw his predicament
and made one masterful effort to
save the day.

“Ball four and the man’s out,”
announced the ump.

“How come I’se out?’ ‘inquired
the enraged batter.

“Tse repelled to put you out, nig-
ger. Don’t you see dar’s nowhere
else to put you?” reasoned the ump.
—Columbia (S. C.) State.

Photoplay Technique in a College
Course.

Announcement is made that a
course in the technique of the mov-
ing picture will be included in the
curriculum of Columbia University
in New York City. The course is a
part of the Department. of English
and was tried out this summer with

signal success—so go the reports re-
received. ;

“The course is still in an experi-

mental state,” said Dr. Hunt, who is
in charge of this department. What
we are attempting 1s to determine
for ourselves the value of the mo-
tion picture as an air to instruction
in biography, history and whatever
other studies lend themselves to
picturization. ;
’ The courses in the writing and
construction of the photoplay, given
under Mr. Patterson, take up the
motion. picture from an entirely dif-
ferent angle.

“We are going to try to teach
those students who show talent the
actual technical points connected
with the writing of photoplays,”
said Mr. Patterson. “We have our
laboratories for this right in the
motion picture theatres of the city
and in our own classrooms, where
from time to time we show current
films and attempt to analyze them
from all points that could be of in-
terest to writers for the screen. This
will include all of the camera tricks
and devices. The student must have
a pretty fair knowledge of the
limits ‘and possibilities of the
camera, the use of the close-up, the
fade-in and fade-out in the devel-
opment of the story, adaption of the
story and dramatization of setting.”
otoplay Magazine.

“Do you mean to say that Peter-
kin didn’t show you over his new
house ?”

“No; we never got any farther
than the cellar.”—Life.

DELTA PI KAPPA

(Continued from page 1)
technical and literary details of
journalism are studied and the dif- .
ferent forms and types of newspa-
pers are analyzed and discussed in
detail.

The fraternity will be very ma-
terially strengthened this year at
Davidson by the new journalistic
course known as English Five. Dr.
Erwin is the new associate Profes-
sor of English and with this course
more Davidson men can get literary
training in the study and practice of
journalism.

The Davidsonian has received
quite a bit of publicity in the past
years and has been commended by
newspaper men of ability, and many
compliments have been paid the
publication. The Delta Pi Kappa
men not only wish to attain jour-
nalistic careers but to put forth.
every effort to improve and develop
the Davidson publications.

_ To further the cause of journal-
ism, prominent newspaper men will
be brought to Davidson to lecture on
the subject under the Delta Pi Kap-
pa auspices. Mr. J. C. Hutto, Edi-
tor of the Charlotte News, is ex-
pected to be the speakers for next
week, All men on the publications
are urged to attend and all men in-
terested in journalism would do well
to accept the invitation to hear Mr.
Hutto. .

The old men returning this year
are J. M. Richards, M. R. Doubles,
D. L. Mahood and W. P. Cumming.

PIPE’S the thing with men. Under the spell of
A WDC Pipes men telax, fagged brains are relieved.
The specially seasoned genuine French briar breaks in sweet

and mellow.

It will not crack or bum through. The

WDC Triangle on the bowl is your guarantee. Ask any

good dealer.

We. DEMUTH & CO.. NEW vorK

WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES

