N

Auburn?
Davidson?

THEDAV,.

Final Figures of
Campaign

$12,118.00

FOR A GREATER DAVIDSON

Vol. VII. . DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON. N. C.. JANUARY 29, 1920. No. 17
e ° ae J one SIX DAYS OF PLEASURE
FINAL FIGURES SHOW — Intercollegiate Debating Dr. Harding’s Condition Ten Games on 1920 Foot- AWAIT GLEE CLUB
Davidson Goes 20 Per Cent Over Team to be Chosen | Much Improved --- No ball Schedule “O Davidson” for Sale by Shields.
a Soon Need for Further Fear Speaking of SDL trip! That’
The final result of the campaign V. M. I. and Clemson Diagnosed— open ing of a big: trip: _ that’s
among the students stands at $12,- . Hospital in Charl Will Richmond College a New-Comer ee Deni Store for cqlat irre-
118, over 20 per cent above the al- Preliminaries of Fresh.-Soph. later- Still at ospital in arlotte—- Wi — Unive rsity of Georgia sistible atvic son ec Club! It
lotment. . Scheduled Probably Not Resume College . will be a shame the way their con-
re . Society Debate eduie . Will Probably be Next eert brings down all the ¢ te >
With the entire student body for April Work This Term ; es down ¢ ¢ applause at
behind it, the campaign moved P —- Junior Speaking; but that will be
steadily onward to success. That —., The 1920 gridiron schedule has Justa sample of what it will win at
old-time “Wildcat” spirit, made — The debating council at a recent = just about been completed, though ~———- well everywhere, for in the
things move from the very start. Meeting arranged dates and sub- the tinal contracts have not been six-day trip they are gomg to visit
The itter-dormitory racé laurel is jects for the spring contests, ‘Vhe signed. Since the close of the L919 some of the best institutions in the
proudly held by Watts. Although subject chosen for the intercollegi- season Dro J. M. Douglas and ex- sete ce .

Watts did not give the largest ate debating contest is: “Resolved, Manager Frank Hall have been eu can't think of amore enjoy-
amount, the Watt-ites left their as- That labor through representatives working unceasingly and have pre- able way to spend that luafing hour
signed portion far to the rear. The of its own choosing should have a < pared a splendid program that will each vnthars than " learning the
final figures from the dormitory voice mM the management of indus- . . give the Wildeats chance to spread Dest poptiar songs. Now is the time
teams are as follows: try.” Preliminaries Will be held on iv § their fame over the whole southland. 9 try out for your place on that

Ceorgia -.----.--- $ 2,708 February 17, 1920. and finals on ' They meet this year's champions of !920 Glee Club! .
Watts .-.----------------- 2,565 March 4. . the Sauth, Southeast, State of Leader I. Ie. Shiclds has been able
Chambers (North Wing) - 2,102 .\s none of last vear's intercollegi- North Carolina, South Carolina, vider ts peveral copies of the Da-
Rumple ------------------- 1,825 ate debators are back, competition ! Georgia, and Virginia. i “4 College sone AR
Chambers (South Wing) --- 1,772. this year will no doubt be keen. A The absence of Clemson and VM, WC sce hi il ie v ! avidson
Town - cane - L146 bird’s-eve- view of the situation re- I. fram the schedule is the cause of 4" ne ‘ie and reserve it at once
——— veals the fact that there is a wealth | ati some regret to those who looked *S he fat innited number can be fur-

Total -2---.-------- -----$12,118 of material on hand and every man ~ forward to the day of sweet re- Sed at Us date,

Class Football to be Re-
sumed---Expected to
Prove Interesting

Fresh. and Sophs. Seem to Have the
Edge

Davidson can stand from under
for some stupendous interest to fall
on the Hill, Friday, February 6,

1920, when the first game of class:

fvotball plaved here since 717 is pull-
ed off between the Sophomore and
the Juniors.

The managers of the four teams
report that the classes are showing
great interest in their teams, and the
indications are for a series of hard
fought games while the season
lasts. Owing to the bad weather
none of the teams have been able
to practice, but in a few days all
will be out working hard to get in
shape for the coming series that will
decide the class football champions.
The prospects are strong for the
Fresh and Soph teams, but don't
think the: Seniors and Juniors are
not running strong. The Freshs
have a strong backfield and heavy
line, while the line of the Soph is
strong, their backfield is inclined to
he lacking in strength. A few aiter-
noons of practice will doubtless
bring the Sophs’ backfield up. ‘The
Juniors are planning to make a
sweeping revenge on the Sophy-
mores for their defeat in basketball
through this class football series.
The Seniors are planning to lift their
reputation by leaps and bounds in
the coming games, and are going tu
hight and fight hard to do it. With
these prospects, the class football
series for the championship pens
Friday, February 6.

The schedule of games is as foi-
lows:

Class Football Schedule.
Friday, Feb. 6—Soph-]unior.
Saturday, Feb. 7—Senior-Fresh,
Friday, Feb. 13—Senior-]Junior.
Friday, Feb. 20—Junior-Fresh.
Saturday, Feb. 21—Soph-Senior,
Saturday, Feb. 28—Fresh-Soph.

The Library needs three copies of
No. 10 and four copies of No. 3 of
the series of The Davidsonian, col-
lege year 1918-199. We will be glad
to pay for these issues as they are
necessary to complete the files for
binding the volumes for the Library
and The Davidsonian office. Any
friend having back numbers will
confer on us a real favor by looking
through them and sénding these
numbers to us.

who has any ability and talent in-

debating should show that he has
the true Davidson “pep” by trying
for a place.

The subject chosen for the Fresh-
Soph intersociety contest is: “Re-
solved, That all able-bodied men in
Cnited States under 21 years of age,
should be compelled to take one
year of military training.” The pre-
liminaries will be held on April 1,
1920, in each of the society halls.
The finals will take place on April
20. .\ loving cup is annually pre-
sented to the society winning the
contest. Last vear the hi Suciety

won the cup, but reports emanating .

from the Eumenean men are to the

effect that they are out for revenge ;
As both socicties have!

this year.
been augmented by men who have
already showed their skill and pow-
er in argumentation and debating,
it is safe to say that the debate will

be the most hotly coritested in years. :

A handsome medal is presented by
each suciety to the two men adjudg-
ed the best debaters.

LIVELY TIME EXPECTED
JUNIOR SPEAKING

‘Rogers in Charge of Decorations.

The plans for Junior Speaking are
well under way. The faculty has
informed the Junior class that it
must be ready to meet its fate on
the 27th and 28th of February.

Ata meeting of the class Monday
morning a committee was appointed
to make plans for the decorations in
chapel. Rogers is to be chairman of
this committee and promises to
make the chapel a place of beauty
for the awe stricken audience.

In spite of the snow and general
cold weather, hot air is beginning to
flow. The whole of the Junior class
has a do or die expression on their
face when they happen to appear on
the campus. When seen, however,
they are usually headed for the 1i-
brary, where the familiar question
is asked: “Can you tell me where |
can find something to write my
speech about ?”

An effort will be made to have the
Orchestra and Glee Club in shape
for a concert of some kind and also
for music during the speaking.
There will be a basketball game on
the hill, probably on Saturday, so
the visitors will be well entertained
during their stay.

Most important of all, the presi-
dent of the class stated he would
see that the Junior class got their
invitations on time.

On Monday night, January 19,
when the students were rejoicing
over the results of their campaign,
the members of the faculty and Dr.
Harding's family were in a state of
great anxiety. To the stadent body,
the next morning, the news of Dr.
Harding's illness came as a great
shock, for at the movies Friday
night, and at his class room an Sat-
urday, he was apparently in perfect
health.

He was taken with a severe at-
tack of appendicitis, on Monday
night, and an immediate operation
became imperative. In consequence,
Dr. Brenizer took him to the Pres-
byterian Hospital, in Charlotte, car-
trying him on the back seat of his
car, The operation promptly per-
formed, was successful, and the anx-
iety of his friends in Davidson was
somewhat allayed. However, he
was still in a very critical condition,
News from the hospital indicates
also that he is steadily improving,
and the anxiety of his friends is giv-
ing way to confidence that they will
see him back home again in a com-
paratively short time, although it is
Nardly to be hoped that he will be
able to resume his work very much
before the end of the present term.

Professor Reed is taking charge
of his classes in Greek; that is, tak-
ing over the greater part. of, his
work. Strange to say, this is the
exact reverse of the situation last
fall, during Professor Reed’s ex-
tended absence from the campus.
Dr. Grey will meet his German
classes. Hence, in this way. the
members of these classes will not
lose the whole term's work.

Dr. Thornton Whaling a Visitor to
Davidson Campus.

On his way back from a ‘conven-
tion in’ Memphis, Dr. Thornton
Whaling, President of Columbia
Theological Seminary. stopped over
in Davidson last Saturday. On Sun-
day he made several addresses, tak-
ing Dr. Richards’ place in. the pulpit
both morning and evening. and
speaking to the students in the aft-
ernoun. Another purpose of his visit
was to see several candidates for
the ministry who are going to the
seminary next year.
left Monday morning to attend a
meeting of the Davidson board of
trustees in Charlotte.

Vanderbilt students have adopted
a $12 “Campus Tax” which is to
cover athletic and publication fees.
The plan met with unanimous ap-
proval and with faculty sanction
will take effect next fall_—Vander-
bilt Hustler.

Dr. Whaling’

venge. Phe dates and locations for
these games could not be satisfac-
torily arranged and they had to be
called off. There is a chance of a
new team appearing on the list pro-
vided arrangements can be agreed
upon with the Richmond College
“Spiders.” This would put “Spi-
ders,” “Hornets” and “Yellow Jack-
ets" on the line-up, quite a prepon-
derance of the insect family.

The Clemson date is stitl open

pending arrangements with the Uni- ,

versity of Georgia and the Citadel,
either of which will prove a worthy
opponent for the locals. In 1917 the
Citadel came to Davidson and com-
pletely upset the dope by holding the
Wildcats to a 7-7 tie. Ever since
then Davidson has longed to meet
them, and if the Red and Black from
Georgia cannot fill the date, it is
hoped that terms can be made with
the South Carolinians. ‘The tenta-
tive schedule, which is subject te
change, follows;

Oct. 2) Davidson vs. N.C. State,
at Raleigh, N.C.
Oct. 9 Davidson vs. Washington

and Lee, at Lexington, Va.

Oct. 16—Davidson vs. Wake For-
est, at Charlotte, N.C.

Oct. 23) Davidson
Tech, at Adanta, Ga,

Oct. 30-0 Pending.

Nov. 6—Davidson vs. Univ. of S.
Ci at Davidson,

Nov, 13—Davidson vs. Univ. of N.
C., at Winston-Salem, N.C.

Nov. 20—Davidson vs. Pres. Col.
of S.C. at Clinton, S.C.

Noy, 25--Davidson vs. Furman, at
Greenville, S.C.

* - Davidson vs. Richmond Col-
lege, at Richmond, Va.

vs. Georgia

DUTCH AND SPANISH
PROBLEMS DISCUSSED

The Book Lovers’ Club held its
last meeting at the home of Mrs, J
M. MacConnell. A paper on “The
Reconstruction Problems of Spain
and Holland” was presented by Mrs.
Douglas. The outstanding feature
of the discussion was the serious
educational and political condition
of these European countries.

The next meeting is to be with
Miss Hattie Thompson, at which
time a discussion of the “Recon-
struction Problems of China, Japan,
and Korea,” will be led by Mrs. Ar-
buckle.

The election of officers for the
new series is to take place in March,
after which the year’s program will

_be announced.

Randolph-MaconandMer-
cer to be Debated
This Spring

R.-M. to be Met at Ashland—Place of
Mercer Debate Unsettled

Two intercollegiate debates ‘for
the vear have been arranged. Da.
vidson will meet Randolph-Macon at
Ashland, Va., on April 15, 1920. The
subject is: “Resolved, That labor
through representatives of its own
choosing shall have a voice in the
management. of industry.”

Davidson will uphold the negative
in this contest. This is the first time
Davidson has clashed with Ran-
dolph-Macon.

Another debate has been arrang-
ed with Mercer: as yet the details
such as subject, date, place. ete.
have not been completed. All these
necessary essentials will be an-
nounced later. It will be remem-
hered that Davidson “downed” Mer-
cer im the debate last spring. The
prospects this year are bright in
both societies, Material is plentiful
and of the best kind, and everything
points toward “keeping the pace.”

WILDCATS DROP FIRST
GAME TO GUILFORD 29-22

The Davidson” basketball team
dropped the first game of the Care-
lina trip to Guilford by the score of
29 to 22. Both sides fought furious-
ly and as a consequence many fouls
were committed. The Red and Black
were the chief offenders and it had
a distinct bearing on the score.
Frazier, speedy and wiry forward,
played a stellar game for the win-
ners, scoring 15 of the poimts made
by his side. His dribbling was spec-
tacular, several times bringing the
ball from one end of the Aoor to the
other. For the losers “Prep” Hall
played the best ball. Several of his
long shots, were very difficult. He
shared scoring honors with Strie-
beck, cach having eight points to
their credit.

The game started with a rush.
Frazier dropping in a neat foul after
the first few seconds of play. For
the next five minutes the Wildcats
played the best brand of basketball
exhibited by either side during the
entire game. Hall started the fire-
works by scoring a goal from un-
der the goal. This was followed by
another by Striebeck and in quick
succession Chalmers added another.
Roberts missed several long shots,

(Continued on page 8

AUBURN, ELON, GUILFORD, AND CLEMSON HERE NEXT WEEK
