The DAVIDSONIAN

FOUNDED BY CLASS
° “The Livest Wire on the

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

OF ‘15
Hill”

NEO
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before
12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.
ee ———————————

J. E. CASSELL..._.-.-...---.----~--------~----+------2- none e ones Editor-in-Chief
J. M. RICHARDS....-.-.---------------------------------------- Managing Editor
A. P. ORMOND...--. Assistant Managing Editor

. P, PRICE_-..--- --Assignment Editor
i. R. DOUBLES....-.--..-----------.--------------------20------- Athletic Editor
C. J. MATTHEWS..--_..---------------------------------------- 22+ Alumni Editor
J. C. McCASKILL-....-------.-.---------- 2-222 222-22 enone Exchange Editor
J. R. BOULWARE, JR..----~.-...---------------------------------- Forum Editor
J. M. DUNLAP..._.-.-----..-..--.-----.--------------------+--25-- Campus Editor
D. W. ROBERTS.....---..-.----------------------------- Y. M. C. A. Editor
H. A. HILL... 2 -- + nnn enn nnn nnn ne eee Social Editor
J. M. GASTON, JR..---------------------------+------------- 222 --- Literary Editor

ficial Photographer

r

R. McILWAINE-..-.----------------------=-
REPORTERS’ CLUB

W. P. CUMMING D. L. MAHOOD
. T. L, LISTON R. BITZER A. M. MITCHELL
C. E. CUNNINGHAM M. W. DOGGETT B. B.
. M. GILMER J. W. PHILLIPS Ww. W.
. C. SUMMERS E. H. TUFTS J.

Additional Reporters: J. H. Davis, G. W. Mauze, H. H, Smith, E. Fewell,
J. A. Thames, R. F. Davidson, C. D. Tuller, W. J. Cooper, M. P. Calhoun, J. T.
Wilkes, D. H. Ogden, T. L. Frazer, P. Brown, 2. Green, W._T. Elliott, H. M. |
Morris, A. D. King, C. G. Long, A. C. Ormond, S. H. Denny, J. F. Clark.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

C. J. MATTHEWS....-.-.-.----------------------------: Active Business Manager |
A. G. OLTMAN.__....----------~---- 2-2 ---- 2-2 nen nen neo e+ Business Manager |

THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 8, 1920.

BOARDING.

Our mutual friend, “Marcus Por-
cius,” gave us some good dope last
week “As to Eating” but offered no
solution to the situation.

It is without doubt that the pri-
vate boarding house system is the
best policy. We are for it and
against the Commons, or mess hall.
At present we pay a little more than
at other places but we have the
satisfaction of good service and a
small number of meals served under
the private supervision of a com-
petent woman.

There are two suggestions that
we want to place before you. First,
to establish a store house owned
and operated by the college to buy
the supplies for the boarding houses
and sell them at cost. There is no
reason in each boarding house lady
sending out in the afternoon and
buying at retail six boxes of corn-
flakes two lbs. of bacon for break-
fast. Why shouldn’t the college
furnish this lady with a case of
breakfast food, the potatoes by the
barrel instead of the peck, the grits
by the bag instead of by the pound.
The beans by bag, floor by barrel,
lard by tub. The college could fur-
nish these staple goods in this way
and the two or three extra dollars
that we are now lamenting about

osition is a good one and will work
out to a good advantage and we
know that we would enjoy more
good vegetables and the first tender

meat. ;
E. Pluribus Unum.

THE DECLINE AND FALL OF

APRIL FOOL.

We may well say with Edward
Gibbon that “In the confusion of
darkness an assailent may succeed.”
So he did; but who the “He” is has
not as yet been made public. Yes
he succeeded in climbing the tank
under cover of darkness, on the
night of March 31, and succeeded
in disfiguring our water tank with
many different colors of paint. Just
what the idea was no one knows.
Did he mean it for an April Fool?
It is true. that it looks very foolish,
but is not in keeping with the mod-
ern mind that dominates the campus
at Davidson and it is not a plau-
sable April fool.

The best April fool pulled this
year was the absence of Dr. Grey’s
Cows in Chapel. Every one expect-
ed it, and felt a little disappoint-
ment in that they did not find the
usual Old Gag pulled. But disap-
pointment did not stare the mischief
seekers full in the face. Upon en-
tering the Chapel a large poster
could be seen back of the stand
covering the entire wall announcing
that “Hoover had turned Repub-
lican.” A few minutes later in the

Read the Exchanges in the “Y”
Room.

BAYLOR UNIVERSITY.

The election of cheer leaders is
won by the nominee who obtains
the most yelling from the student
body.—The Lariot.

GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY.

A certain professor of sociology
asks his class this important ques-
tion: Do men marry for beauty,
health, or for wealth? Forty-three
per cent preferred the woman of
their choice be healthy, forty-two
per cent beautiful, and less than
fifteen per cent wealthy.—The
Hoya.

You know Sampson the practical
Joker. His last joke brought down
the house.—Randolph-Macon Sun
Dial.

EXAMINATIONS AS WE
WOULD LIKE THEM.

CHEMISTRY

E. A. NASH foe nncnnnnnneeccncneeccneneneeecnsecseegeene= Assistant Managers| will be saved and the boarding-|middle of the morning prayer the

J. S. CURRY a ‘house lady will be better equipped pleasant (?) sound Sf an. alarm| 1. Do you consider this an im-
CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT: and receive the same compensation | clock greeted us from a remote cor- |portant subject ?

C. H. LONG........-------------------------2--eenne enone no Circulation Manager | for her services because those extra|ner of the Chapel. 2. What is the formula for water?

J. C. WOOL......---------~---02-----2---7 2-7-2 anno 22 Assistant Manager |sheckels go to the retail merchant! Fellows when Old Davidson has|(Do not write it graphically).

3. What is your favorite element?
Why?
4. Do you like chemistry? Why?

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible. and not to the boarding house. won a hard fought game, defeated
Secondly, We wonder if there is | another college in a debate, or when

not some way of encouraging a bet-|she has put a million dollar cam-

EDITORIAL :

We wish the Sophomores a great time at their banquet Friday
night. Judging from the number of meetings in Chapel it must be
bordering on a very kingly affair.

The constant clinking of horse shoes tells us most forcibly that
spring is here with all its pleasures.

The notice “All football men report for spring practice this after-
noon” sounds like we mean business for next fall.

We imagine that the Davidson Hoover Club now feels like a duck
out of water since their candidate has cast his lot with the Republican

party.

The student who fails to attend the N. C. State game in Charlotte
Saturday should be termed a “slacker.” Be there to see a battle royal.

teport has come to our ears that we regret very much to learn.
At is a thing that is not in keeping with the fair spirit of our cam-

pus, a thing that is not compatible with the noble tradictions of

our college, and a thing that is far from being worthy of the true
manhood of the South as represented in our institution. That to which
reference is made is the unfair methods that are being used in the stu-
dent body and other elections this spring. We cannot think other than
it is just thoughtlessness on the part of the students, for were they con-
scious of the derogatory effects of their actions on our school life they |
would desist immediately.

There are three points to be considered in this connection of
“stuffing the ballot” as it is termed: First, to vote for other than the
best man, and then upon this to vote more than once the student is not!
playing fair with himself. It means just a little lowering of personal |

onor, and shows a small defect of character. Second, the student is
not playing fair with the candidate in whose behalf these methods are
used. It is needless to say that no real Davidson man wants to win an
election by these means, and it would hurt him to think that he has an
honor that rightly belongs to another. And third, the student guilty
of such action shows quite plainly that he does not have the best in-
terest of his school at heart when he would want to see his man win out '
regardless of whether he was the right one for the place or not. |
- The students all know that just at present there is lying on the
table an amendment to our Constitution which will do away with
these unlawful methods, and we would urge most earnestly that when'
the proper time comes that it will be ratified overwhelmingly. It is to!
be regretted that things have come to this state, yet we are confident
that right will prevail and that the plans set forth in the amendment
will be the means hereafter of maintaining fairness in the elections.

’ ERY shortly there will be held one of the most important of the

student body elections. This will be for the choice of the man

_ upon whose shoulders will rest the responsibility of making the

revised Student Government Constitution a success or a failure. Now

that we have taken the big step forward in our Self Government in

theory you might say, we cannot fall down on the practical applica-
tions of the principles embodied therein.

_ It is for this reason that we would advise the students that they
think carefully and thoughtfully as to the qualifications that are es-
sential to the holder of the position, We want a man who is clean
cut and fair in all his dealings, who" is conscientious and of vigorous
ability, and above all a man who would rather carry out the task en-
trusted to him than be popular. This is a high standard set for a man,
but we have them in our student body, and it will behoove all of us to
find this man for our own and our school’s welfare.

As brought out so forcibly at the Greater Davidson Club banquet
at an election of this nature it is necessary that we lay aside all anti-
fraternity and fraternity spirit in order that the best student may be
chosen. Therefore, for the sake of Old Davidson let us resolve that
our choice in the coming election shall be a man who will at all times
place first the execution of his trust, and who as our representative
will reflect honor upon our institution.

ter trucking section of our produce |
farmers so that we can have more
fresh vegetables and also that some- |
one start raising some good brand
of cattle and have them slaughtered
instead of depriving our country’s
saw mills of their beasts of burden
for the purpose, who wouldn't
like to have one nice tender piece
of steak for breakfast instead of
the well known tough Taurus.

We believe the storehouse prop-

paign across, let’s celebrate, paint
the score on the tank, start the bon
fire; but these silly things which
are pulled on April the first each
year makes it seem that some en-
emy has entered the camp. A man
with the right spirit will refrain
from such practice. As the Old Col-
lege grows larger let’s grow along
with it and cut the funny stuff on
April the first.
L. S. V. P.

5. Do you think it should be a re-
quired subject?

(Answer four).

ANALYTICS

1. Plot the point 2, 3, also 1, 3.

2. Plot the straight line 2x plus
y minus 1 equals 36.

4. Do you prefer to use the letters
A, B, C, or X, Y. Z, for the vertices
of a triangle?

(Answer three).

(Continued on page 5)

:

i

ay
iH
4

i

i

i OC ey

i ee
| ee
arn i tf i
min ao, i i
DX f
Ss.

WSs
ed

> |
4 ce

I! i i uy
ic AM

ia
Hi

ON’T take a fellow’s pipe. Take some other possession.

Because wrapped up in his pipe is a fellow’s peace of
mind, his relaxation, his contentment. This is more than
true if it’s a W DC Pipe, because then a good smoke is multi-
plied many times over. Our special seasoning process takes
care of this by bringing out all the sweetness and mellowness
of the genuine French briar. Just you go to any good dealer
and select several good shapes. Put them in your rack.
Smoke a cool one every time, and you'll be well on your
way to pipc-happiness.

Wom. DEMUTH & CO:. NEW YvoRK

WORLD'S LARGEST PIPE MANUFACTURERS

i
i
i

HAR te A

if
it

i

" a
i pire is
Pel i

reali
