seem like “tooting your own horn’

The DAVIDSONIAN

ing editor wishes to make it
due to the co-operation of al
cerned.

As to the future we can onl
the publication has ever had.

Founded by Clase of '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mall Matter of the Second Ciass.

CRIPTION

SUBS RATES:
10 Cente per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year. cessfu

PMP Psp ee

GENTLEMEN?

Some men are born gentlemen, oth-
jers are bred so; some belong to
neither of these classes. Some al-

]

R. ways have themselves in hand and

t act on all occasions as becomes a

Z gentlemen, some at times forget

J. themselves and do things for which

a. they are afterwards genuinely sor-

. Oo, 4, A. P.; Fracer, ry, some do not care one way or the

vp, feqeenel Revertette, Hi: Balleye 7 Co MeGuin Ee OGien ben” + Freer! other, while some make rudeness

CG J. MaTTHEWS : vee : and ungentlemanly conduct a char-

z. ON a acteristic of which they are egotisti-
Fo a LONG ae eecens cncncn nnn nensnemtnceentncwcneecenesecsencecnnscenseee: Assistant Manager cally proud.

On the evening of March 18 we

EDITORIAL

Are you boosting for a bigger and better Davidson?

the concert given by the Greenville
Womans College Glee Club. Due to
unavoidable circumstances the en-
tertainment was late in beginning,
and in the meantime we sang, yelled,
laughed, and in every way had a
‘good time. As to this, it was en-
joyed by all present and of it no one
could criticise. Nothing that the au-
dience as a whole engaged in could
be deemed as other than proper.
However, there is a time for all
things, and as the majority of those
present were either ladies or gentle-
men, the majority of those present
knew in a moment when the time
had come to turn the program over
to the proper authorities. They of
course acted accordingly. To expect
so much from all those present may
have been asking too much. This
though was the courteous thing to
do, and certainly one may rightly
expect courtesy from gentlemen. At
all events there were present those
who if they were gentlemen, seem
not to agree with this statement. If
they are not gentlemen there is no
contention. Having read. this far
few will entertain any doubt as to
what is the object of this article, or

A feed for the whole student body in the new gym. How’s that for
class?

The proposition stands up to the trustees that “No matter how
many dormitories you build, we'll guarantee to fill them up.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN, March 25, 1920.

added to the attractiveness of appearance.
to mention these facts, but the retir-

plain that the success of the past year was
the various departments and parties con-

a ABEERIW oo eeescssssssesssecstssetssesescssssrerscsceceresceosceseoe 3 Elton: ine Cae we wish you the best luck possible.
i, Sr. sess nt 22 LAasignment Editor
¥ SCHENCK iM cae mithletic Editor
¥ ‘Alumni Editor

gathered in Shearer Hall to enjoy |&

We hope that it will not

wish that the best possible year which
e predict still further growth both in
size and in the quality of the news. With the firm foundation on which
1 | the paper is resting at present we-can see nothing but a brilliantly suc-

P future. Again we wish to say, to the student body, that we ap-
preciate your hearty support and co-operation; to the new staff that

Read the Exchanges in the “Y”
Room.

Trinity Adopts Compulsory Exercise
With the opening of spring ath-
letics every student of Trinity will
enlist for some form of athletic ex-
ercise. According to the plan three
hours of physical exercise will be re-
quired each week, for which credit
or one hour’s academic work is
iven. Men on varsity squads, and
in the R. O. T. C. will be allowed to
count this as their exercise. Tennis,
golf, baseball, track and gymnasium
work are some of the forms open to
students.

Trinity recently won the state
championship by defeating N. C.
State College by the close score of
25 to 24. The game was played on
the large auditorium floor in Ral-
eigh—“Trinity Chronicle.”

Kentuckians Are Progressing.

The University of Kentucky is
adopting several new plans which
seem to have unusual advantages.
One of these is a new athletic coun-
cil composed of faculty members,
students and three citizens of Lex-
ington. Among its duties are the
awarding of letters, support high
school tournaments, attract visitors
and alumni to contests and maintain
a trophy room for pictures, records,
and trophies of athletic teams. An-
other progressive movement is the
adoption of track sports by the co-
eds. They have already arranged
meets with the University of Cin-

SINGING IN CHAPEL.

Don’t let the spring fever get hold of you quite yet or some other
fever may get you about exam time. .
A BIGGER AND BETTER DAVIDSON.
HE above motto was very happily adopted last year as the goal
| for the Greater Davidson Club. A year has passed since first this
slogan was used and we are now in a position to look back upon
the fruits of our efforts. So far as the enrollment figures are a fair
test there is no reason for argument on the first part. Bigness, how-
ever, may be measured in other ways than by actual number of men in
attendance. Likewise the question of whether Davidson is better or
not can hardly be measured by the “Y” attendance or Bible class enroll-
ment.

Now then, what can make us big? Ample facilities, adequate equip-
ment, and a brilliant athletic record help to supplement the registration
figures. Then too the quality of the men turned out will go a long way
toward determining the size of a college in the eyes of the world. Of
all the splendid tributes that can be paid to Davidson College, its
alumni stand forth above everything else as the living monument of an
institution bigger in work than in number of men enrolled. The problem
for our present consideration is whether by our work and conduct we
are preparing ourselves to make Davidson bigger before the world or
are we suffering our talents to lie in idleness while others are multiply-
ing them in useful service. . . .

As usually considered the word “better” involves the idea of high-
er morality, and a deeper interest in scholastic and religious work. In
some respects this part of our ambition has been realized but the op-
portunities for further development are unlimited. Our class room
work this year has not been up to the proper standard and could hardly
compare very favorably with the work of former years, Perhaps there
has been some improvement during the spring term, but not sufficient
to be called satisfactory. Unnecessary absences have been a fruitful
source of demoralization.

In religious work, the presence of a secretary on the campus has
been an inestimable help toward the maintenance‘of the “Y" work. The
president also has contributed a most necessary part to its remarkable
success. Though there can be no argument as to the success of this
service there is still further room for the growth of a deeper religious
spirit. Herein lies the most attractive virtue of our student body spirit.
This spirit of gentlemanly conduct and morality has been the basis of
our claims of having a superior student body. Careful guard should be
kept that this spirit in no wise may suffer a backset.

Almost innumerable are the ways in which we can become bigger
and better. One of the first methods is to make yourself both bigger
and better and your college will benefit accordingly. Such things as our
honor system, our spirit, our scholarship, and general conduct can easily
bear some improvement. Let us not be satisfied with our present num-
bers, more students will be a great thing, but above all things get lined
up. right and boost for a better as well as bigger institution.
ckin

GREETINGS TO THE NEW STAFF.

S this issue is the last for which the present administration is re-
A sponsible, it seems altogether fitting that we indulge in a few
words of retrospect and of prophecy. Probably a few words of

apology would be more appropriate. The appreciation of the staff
should be expressed for the hearty support with which the student
body has rewarded their efforts. Their co-operation was essential to
success and there can be no complaint from the staff on this ground.
The success of The Davidsonian this year—if it has been a success
—can not be claimed by any one man. The efficient corps of staff men
has been untiring in their efforts to fill the paper with interesting news.
The “Reporters’ Club” has also done its work cheerfully and success-
fully. Perhaps the hardest work, however, was done by the business
department, which has made possible the increase in the size of each
edition and the placing of the.paper on a safe financial basis. The cir-
culation department has also carried on its work without a single hitch.
During the past year the “Davidsonian” has grown from a four
column paper of six pages to a five column paper of eight pages. Sev-
eral additions have been put out containing ten and twelve pages each.
The placing on the staff of a most capable photographer has greatly

|
|

what action called it forth. Every-
one will remember that when the
hall was quieting down for the con-
cert to begin there were two or
three who persisted in making re-
marks about the singers, who gave
cat calls as various numbers were
about to be started, who talked
aloud purposely during the entire
program, and succeeded in making
themselves disagreeable in every
way. This does not represent in the

Up until about a year ago it was
the custom to sing a hymn every
morning in chapel. For some un-
known reason this part of the serv-
ice was dropped last spring. I would
like to know why this was done and
if it wouldn’t be a good thing to re-
install it. I am sure some of the
boys would be glad to form a choir
to lead in the singing. The chapel
least the spirit of the college, but | service would be so much more in-
the college gets the blame, the col-| teresting with this feature renewed.
lege, the Davidson student body, and, This is a vital part of the chapel pro-
the individual students are held re-|gtam and it seems to me that we
sponsible not only for something|should be willing to give two or
they have not done, but for some- threes minutes a day to the offering
thing which they as gentlemen’ up of praises to God in this manner.
would never think of doing. Think it over fellows and if you are

The two or three men to whom this interested ina better chapel, write
refers alone know who they are.|an article giving your views on the
They alone know to which of the | subject. Triple X.
above mentioned classes they belong
and may classify themselves accord-
ingly. They may be gentlemen who
forgot themselves and who now are
sorry, they may not care one way or
the other, they may be proud of their
rudeness and disrespect; but at all
events their conduct was not that
which becomes a gentleman and a
student of Davidson College.

It is possible that the above criti-
cism is unjust. The men referred to
may be of the highest type of gen-
tlemen, and were possibly honest in
their endeavor to add a little life to
a program which may have seemed
to them a little slow and dry. If this
is true, they will upon second con-
sideration remember that to center
the attention wholly on two events
at once is impossible, and as a result
neither can be fully appreciated. It
might not be a bad idea to store up
all their witticisms, clever remarks
etc., and present them at a time
when they would derive the full
credit for their entertainment and
would not be forced to share the
glory of their accomplishments.

L. L. McAlister.

‘

W

mellow French briar, which is
burning through, in quality of
ship and design.

dealer's. Smoke a

the smokejoy which

DC Pipes ate certainly
every man seeks.

cinnati and Louisville College. The
faculty members of the university
have organized a social club, called
the “University Club.” It is here
that the professors will come to-
ether with a spirit of freedom and
ellowship impossible to foster in
other ways. Such an organization is
an asset to a school and should be
encouraged in every way.—"“The
Kentucky Kernel.”

A Better Davidson is Our Goal.
The Moder Girl.

We knock and we criticise her,

We scold, apostrophize her,

We wish that she were wiser,

|More capable and kind. .

;Her paths we're always stalking,

To criticise her talking ; .

‘Her clothes, her ways of walking,

Hér manners and her mind —

We say, “Oh, hight qrighty!

She’s frivolous and flighty,

| And all her ways are mighty

| Undignified to see.

! She dances and she chatters,

) Our golden rule she shatters,

‘And laughs at serious matters,

With unabated glee.

We chide and we correct her,

We shadow and detect her,

| We study and dissect her,

With all her smiles and tears;

And find on looking o’er her, —

(And learning to adore her),

She’s just like girls before her,

For twenty thousand years. .
—"Cardinal & Cream.”

How to Manage a Girl by Electricity

When your girl is sulky aad will
not talk—Exciter.

If she gets too excited—Con-
troller.

If she talks too long—Interrupter.

If her way of thinking is not yours
—Converter.

If she loves you—Compressor.

If she tries to deceive you—De-
tecter.

If she wishes to come half way—
Meter.

If she will come all the way—Re-
ceiver.

If she wants to go further—Con-
ductor.

If she wants chocolates—Feeder.

—Wnm. Jowett Student.

When ice cream grows on Macaroni
trees,
When Sahara’s sands grow muddy,
When cats and dogs wear B. V.
Dees;
That’s the time I like to study.
—The Lariat.

Discovered!

I've read the plays of Shakespeare,

I’ve enjoyed the lays of Scott;
And the brutish melodrama

Turns the blood from cold to hot;
The “Red Book” I have oft perused,

And the wicked tales of Rupert

Hughes.

The “Cosmo” has my patronage,
I truly love the “Post,”

I've pored o’er every magazine
They print froni coast to coast.
Yes, the “Blue Book” and the

. “Green Book,”
And every Motion Screen book.

But the greatest piece of fiction
Is the college catalog;
To the unsuspecting reader

(Continued on page 7)

aman’ssmoke. They bri
Ie’s in the
guaranteed against’ cracking or

bit and band, and in workman-
Select several shapes today at any good
cool one every time,

Woe. DEMUTH & CO.. NEW vorK

WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS- OF PINE PIPES
