THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 8, 1920.

i

CONSTITUTION OF THE STUDENT the witnesses against him. In the,
GOVERNMENT OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE | presence of the Student Council he
—— may, if desired, question the’ wit-
PREAMBLE. nesses.. The Council shall have the
jright to rule out any questions or
majority of all present and entitled discussions not pertinent to the

case.

The Student Council shall, during

Article I. y ent and
Section I—The name of this or-|to vote is necessary tor election.
ganization shall be The Student} The President of the Student € Council shall it
Government of Davidson College. | Body shall come from the rising Se- all trials, bear in mind the fact that
Sec. 1I—The Student Body shall; nior Class, the two Vice-Presidents the accused is not convicted of the
have the following officers: Presi-| from the rising Junior Class and the| offense for which he was re orted
dent, Vice-Presidents (two), and/Secretary and Treasurer from the|until the members of the Council
Secretary and Treasurer. | rising Sophomore Class. themselves, at the close of the trial,
Sec. I1{I—There shall be a Student, The Presidents of the respective | vote to cohvict him. Here the duty
Council which shall be composed of|classes shall be elected not later ,of the Council is, ie Weare to
fifteen members, including the Pres-|than April 15th of each collegiate |COMvict, but to seek out and admin-
ident of the Student Body, the Pres-| year, and the councilmen from the 'Ster Justice. th
idents of the respective classes, and respective classes not later than A two-thirds vote of those mem
ten councilmen, of whom five shall] April 20th. bers present shall be necessary for
come from the Senior Class, three] Sec. [V—The inauguration of the |ronviction qhis vote shall be ta en
from the Junior Class and two from|new President and the new Council ' PY Secret ballot.
the Sophomore Class. The Presi-
dent of the Freshman Class shall

; Sec. V—Should the.accuser or the |
shall take place before April 24th | accused feel that he has not derived

not become a, member of the Stu-

dent Council until after Christmas.

and they shall sit with the old Coun-;* —.

cil at all meetings between this time ' justice at the hands © f the Student \

and the end of the college year. The | 5 ve th Student Bort i
Article I. retiring President of the Student | tvs notif the Presilent of the

Sec. 1—It shall be the duty of the) Body shall preside at all meetings srudent Bod that he desires to ap- |
Student Body to elect Student Body during this time. . : eal. The President of the Student |
officers and to strive at all times to| Sec. V.—At the time of their in- , ody shall then at the first oppor-
uphold and preserve the Honor Sys-|auguration the above officers shall tunity call a meeting of the Student
he in every department Of college aap ite subscribe to the fol-’ Body. At this meeting the Presi-
ife. ° : .

Sec, I-It shall be the duty of| “I do solemnly swear that I will, dent shall preside. He shall rst’
the President of the Student Body|to the best of my ability, perform |C™A An Tie Soleet Oto ee he
to call meetings of the Student|the duties of the office to which I evidence produced in the trial before
Hody when such meetings are to its/have been elected; that I will neith: |41,¢ Student Council shall be again,
best interest, to report any viola-|er charge any one nor so far as I brought forth. being read b 5 nem.
‘tions of the Honor System which|can know encourage any one to be.) 7? BF the Co ome nail a mem:
come under his observation and to|charged or tried from envy, hatred desi mn ted member of th e Council
preside at these meetings, to call|or malice, nor shall I suffer any One j sh hi a lain the decision which the;
meetings of the Council and to pre-|to escape the proper judgment of C aincil ha reach lL to the vith |
side when such meetings are in ses-|the Student Council or Student | ounct ‘hi hs Nona att thi “1 '
sion; to appoint necessary commit-| Body, for fear, favor, affection, re- | Feasons th a pro pr F his Ie
tees; and to at all times strive to-| ward or hope of reward, so help me oe she It the s be ; led oO 1s PDe
ward the improvement of conditions | God.” aig 8 hi sit € “Th et 0 €Xx-
upon the campus. Sec. VI—The above officers shall P Ay I * teem, “- t di er may

Sec. HI—lIt shall be the duty of|be elected'for a term of one college on the st of those oat vested in
the Vice-President to preside at|/year, entering into their active th € pant it ‘im niacin “his
meetings of the Student Body in the| duties at the beginning of the fall trig 1 ord ist he oe erved nd
absence of the President. rial order must be preserved an

Sec. IV—It shall be the duty of
the Secretary and Treasurer to col-

term. . .

Sec. VII—Should any of the above careful attention given to every de-
tail.

lect all Student Body assessments,

and to keep an accurate record of

offices become vacant for any rea-
son the vacancy shall immediately |
all money given over to his care and
to keep accurate minutes of all pro-

he filled in accordance with the
method outlined in Article ITT.

ceedings of Student Body meetings.

Sec. V—It shall be the duty of the

Article IV.
Sec. I—No student shall be guilty
Student Council to receive, prefer
and try any charges against a stu-

of cheating, either on recitation, re-
dent for a violation of any provi-

views, or examination ; or upon any
other pledge work.
sions of the Constitution. They Sec. H—No student sha
shall investigate rumors injurious to guilty of stealing, lying or living an
the good name of the Student Body |#™moral life.
or any member thereof. At ail] Sec. HI—No student shall be
times they shall strive toward the guilty of drinking alcoholic liquors,
improvement of conditions upon the|°T Ot having it in his possession on
campus. the campus.
It shall be the duty of the Presi-
dent of the Senior Class to preside

Article VI.

Sec. 1—There shall be appointed
at the opening of each college year
a Damage Committee. This com-
mittee shalt be composed of two
members from each dormitory. It
shall be their duty to receive reports
.of all damage that occurs from
shall be| those parties who are responsible,
1 and to in turn report this damage to,
ithe proper authorities.

Article VII.

Sec. ]—There shall be appointed
each year the student representa-
‘tives upon the audit board. It shall
be the duty of this audit hoard to
‘inspect each month the books and
accounts of student organizations of
the campus which are responsible to
the college. This is to include the

Sec. IV—No student shall engage
in the absence of the President of

in hazing.
Sec. V—AIl students shall respect
the Student Body, and to act in his
capacity until his return. Should

college property, and shall not be,
guilty of wilfully mutilating it or’

the President of the Senior Class

also be absent this duty shall fall

destroying it in any way. : ieti

Sec. VI--No student shall en books of the two Literary Societies,
upon the President of the Junior
Class, or in his absence upon the

in gambling, BAEC | those of the Commissary, of the Da-
President of the Sophomore Class.

Rev. S. H. Hay, ’06, pastor of the
First Presbyterian Church, Moores-
.ville, has resigned, and will go to
Morristown, Tenn., where he will
become pastor of the church there.
Mr. Hay came to Mooresville four
‘years ago from Marion, S. C.

‘_. !vidsonian, of the Magazine and of
Sec. VII—AIl students shall at all
times conduct themselves as be- the College Annu al.
Article III. comes a gentleman and a student | of ' Article IX.
avidson .Ww _— i -
Sec. I—By secret ballot there shall} or representing the College in any’ wes I Ane ndments to this Con
be created in the Student Council a} capacity when away from the Col- t ' the Ste te t Co ail Pah deeic.
recommendation committee which | lege. ed é in ent hall th b tend
shall consist of seven members:| Sec. VIII—No student shall re-|befane the St sn ! then, be rea
four Seniors, two Juniors and one} frain from reporting any violation | which it h tl i ° the ee ‘ble for
Sophomote, all to be selected from )of the Honor System which comes ' t "1 ' at th er d of hi h ‘it *
the Student Council itself, those re-| under his observation. ivote hy the Student Body shall be
ceiving the highest votes being : take » A. 4 hird ocy, Sma r
elected, the Senior receiving the Article V. ‘ait tho two-t ‘d $ ithe epee °
highest vote being Chairman of the| Sec. 1—The Student Council shall 3) -i he preseceaee fay ans ao vote
Committee. meet at least once every two weeks, - oat to he adonted An an adme "
Sec. H—It shall be the duty of|and at such other times as provided | ado ted in thie’ “ by the ot vient
this committee to recommend for|in Article I], Sec. 2. Each Council Body mmedi t iy Be y be tu tof
the office of President of the Stu-}shall set for itself a definite time | ip. t netitutti ery Decomes a part o
dent Body four men from the rising|and place for meeting. |the Co on.
Senior Class; for Vice-President of} Sec. II—At its first meeting the. Article X.
the Student Body four rising Ju-| Student Council shall elect a Secre-| Sec. I—Article II and Article IV
niors to be recommended, from|tary whose duty it shall be to keep|of this Constitution shall be read
whom two are to be elected; from|/an accurate record of all proceed- | with appropriate explanations be-
the rising Sophomore Class three|ings of the Council. His term of of-, fore the entire Student Body at a
men shall be recommended for Sec-| fice shall be left to the discretion of meetng to be held not later than
retary-Treasurer, one to be elected. | the Council which elects him. one week after the opening of
The committee shall recommend| Sec. 11J]—Ten members of the| school for the fall term of each col-
for the election to the Student] Student Council snall be necessary lege year.
Council, eight men from the rising|to -constitute a quorum for the,
Senior Class, of whom five are to be| transaction of business. |
elected; from the rising Junior] Sec. IV—A_ student accused of
Class five, of whom three are to be| having committed an offense shall
elected; from the rising Sophomore|be brought before the Student
Class four, of whom two are to be|Council at the earliest possible mo- '
elected, and shall also recommend |ment for trial. In no case shall
men for the position of President of | there be any unnecessary delay.
the Freshman Class. The Presidents} All the evidence possible shall be
introduced both for and against the
accused, and the Student Council

shall take adequate steps to ascer-
tain the validity of this evidence.

of the three other classes are not in-
cluded in the recommendations.
Sec. HWI—The Student Body Offi-
cers shall be elected not later than
Aprit 15th of each college year. All
nominations must be seconded and a

Dr. J. C. Peden, '10, who has been
doing post graduate work in Phila- |
delphia since his withdrawal from

to hear the evidence and to meet | Texas, in June.

|himself a partner in life.

The accused shall have the right ae Navy will locate at Houston,

now with her sister at New Castle,
Penn. The ceremony took place at
the Big Washington Church, Wash-
ington, D, C., as the chimes tolled
five on the evening of Thursday,
April 1. nineteen-twenty. The best
man was Mr. Edward Tyson, of
Statesville, N. C

The bridal couple will return to
Davidson on Friday, and the groom
will be receiving his customers—and
presents—at his usual place of basi-
sness on the following day.

WEDDING OF PROMINENT
DAVIDSON CITIZEN
DULY CELEBRATED

Hood Norton Relinquishes
Freedom.

Patrons of the popular Davidson
barber, Mr. Hood Norton, will be
surprised to hear that this prosper-
ing individual has joined the bene-
dicts. Hood has at last responded
to the call of arms and journeys to
Washington, D. C., to take unto ae
Mrs. C. E. Herrick, of Lancaster,

The bride is Miss Annie Douglas S. C., spent the Easter holidays with
Mauney, of Kings Mountain, and is'Mr. and Mrs. M. W. Cranford.

| |
Brown Brothers’
Orchestra

The final added touch, the delightful extra
feature which will cause your college func-
tion to be gratefully remembered for years
afterwards.

BROWN’S ((‘‘the orchestra of distinction’’ )
has achieved a tuneful individuality among
discriminating special leaders of eastern uni-
versities. For engagements, write

D-S, BROWN.

Brown Brothers’ Orchestra
1524 Chestnut Street
PHILADELPHIA, PA.

|
happy smiles, whité' |
teeth, good appetites

and digestions.

its benefits are as GREAT
as its cost is SMALL!

it satisfies the desire for
sweets, and is beneficial. too.

Sealed Tight Kept Risht «

