THE DAVIDSONIAN, February 5, 1920.

DAVIDSONIAN

The

Founded by Class of ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Bntered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mall Matter of the Second Class.

UBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

++ .-mdltor-in-Chief

BH. AS wee
E ..Managing Editor
- BOULWARE, Assignment Editor
& it eee caceceecececcceeees sesecees Alumni Editor
fe) .. Exchange Editor
coccecese FOPUM Editor

...Campus Editor
. M. C. A, Editor
eeeee Soclal Editor
--s.Literary Editor
ftictal Photographer

PSP PSMOSPHoR

REPORTERS’ CLUB

D, L. MAHOOD

A. M. MITCHELL
B. B. BREITENHIRT
M. R. DOUBLES

WwW. W. MOORE

J. M. RICHARDS

J. C. WOOL

W. P. CUMMING
J. M. DUNLAP
R. BITZBER

M. W. DOGGETT
T. F. MARTIN
J. W. PHILLIPS
E. H. TUFTS

. KR. CRAIG
. BE, CUNNINGHAM
. M, GILMER
. P. PRICE
Cc. SUMMBRS

Additional reporters for this issue are: Fricker, A. F.; King, A. D.; Smith, IL IL; David-
son, RE avin, ete Denny. SH: Manning, F. EL; Long, C. Gs Smith, Wo C.; Ogden, D.
H.; Mauze, G. W.; Sander. C. W.; Gamble, W. W.; Bailey, J. C.; Beatty, BE. A.

C. 3, MATTHDWS........ccecceceeee pees ccccwcecees ee ceeececeseenececes Business Manager
T, HH. WILSON......-cccccccccenccec ces ccscsenssrercar veneers ercateeenns Assistant Manager

.Circulation Manager
K va TCH Assistant Managerr
C. H. LONG... Assistant Manager

EDITORIAL

There is one man here who can very appropriately say to the first
victim of class football, “1 told you so.”

Seven million words have been spoken in the Senate on the peace
treaty and no result has been accomplished. Seventy times seven
could be said about taking lights with the same success.

After the Carolina game in Chapel Hill both squads very aply join-
ed in the paciful melody, “There’s no place like home.”

A man who missed “Y” service the past two Sundays lost some of,

the best practical advice he could get anywhere. Only about half the
students were there, and. they were the lucky ones.

We have one consolation about the basketball trip—last vear there
were ten games instead of five.

CONCERNING SPANFLU.

UMORS are becoming as prevalent around here as they were dur-
ing the fall of 1917, when every day a new story would he told
and put into circulation. Last Sunday there were reports current

that anywhere from one up to ten cases of influenza had been found in
the college. The truth of it was that the authorities at the infirmary
had given out no statement at all and that the rumors, as always, were
unfounded.

“An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure,” as we have so re-
cently heard, but becoming scared and suspicious is not prevention, and

Indifference to the Literary
Societies.

There is a growing tendency
among the college boys to neglect
the literary society work. To many
of the students, the society seems
to be either an object of contempt or
merely a joke.

Previous to this time in the his-
tory of Davidson College for a stu-
dent not to connect himself with
either of the literary societies in a
short time after he had entered col-
lege, was so rare an occurrnce that
it was almost a novelty.

Some contend that there is consid-
erable doubt whether they will re-
turn another year, and until they
know definitely do not think it to
their advantage to join a society for
the benefits obtained from that short
time. This arises from the fact of
their ignorance of the profit gained
from diligent work in the society.

Others claim they wish first to
become accustomed to study, and-
when they have settled down well to
work, then connect themselves with
a society, and in this way avoid be-
ing overburdened with work at the
beginning. This is a wrong idea
and needs no comment, for every
one knows that society matters take
little time from study, so no just
ground of complaint can exist on
that score. It is really a pleasure
after a week of hard and _ tedious
labor to break the monotony — in
work which is both instructive and
pleasant.

Next, consider what the benefits
will be if the society succeeds in per-
forming its mission. This can best
be understood from an illustration.

A young man finishes his college
course. He has devoted himself to
text-books, He is graduated at the
head of his class. He is a “smart”
man, and the -world thinks wonders
of him. The public has use for all
the talent in the country, and soon
he is called upon to express his
opinion in a speech upon some sub-
ject or question. Alas he is now
upon new ground. He remembers
the neglected literary society. The
time for action has come. and he is
not ready. He makes the attempt,
he blunders, he fails. The public is
surprised, disgusted. He now has
no friendly society hall to shield him
from the cold eyes of a criticising
world.
means to repeat the bitter experi-
ence of his last failure: and so he

| Open Forum |

To attempt to learn it now |

does nothing toward helping to abate the trouble. Every cold you have now spends a life of constant dread,
is not influenza and every man that goes to the infirmary doesn’t have fearing that somebody else would
to have it. An example of this was seen last week. One of the gos- think that because a man was on the
sipers was asked who were some of the afflicted and he gave the names honor roll at college he can put his
of one or two, admitting that he knew no more. One of those sure pa- knowledge to practical use.

tients he cited was seen that same day coming from the infirmary as College debating is an intellectual
well and strong as he could be, having spent two days there trying to sport. Months of preparation for a
cure a bad cold. struggle that itself lasts only about

While there has arisen no necessity for alarm, some few precau- two hours: getting the best speak-
tions will help wonderfully toward the warding off of a local epidemic. ers and arguments for effective
The men have been urged repeatedly not to take unnecessary trips to team work, and always the anticipa-
Charlotte or any of the near-by towns and yet they go. Other places tion of the actual clash with oppon-
are infested and should be carefully avoided. Plenty of fresh air in ents equally well prepared—all these
your rooms will also serve as a preventive. To those who room in elements ‘debating has in common
Georgia this' last advice is unnecessary. with athletic contests.

Personal precautions are perhaps the best means of fighting the Men are stimulated for the long,
spread of the disease. Dr. McConnell has already given three rules uninteresting period of preparation
which will effectively assist. They are: “Keep your feet warm, your by the big contest ahead. It is this
head cool and stay in good condition.” clement of strife, the desire to win

Remembering his advice, we canproceed calmly with our work and t over a rival, to bring honor to the

hen if anything happens, let it come,we have done our part and can do n college, that lifts debating above
+o more. routine study.

There are over 300 institutions of

THRIFT. college sank having from one to

The national thrift week was very fittingly celebrated at Davidson four debates a year, which means
by the subscribing of $12,000 for the Million Dollar Campaign. This about 1,000 debating teams of three
represents the largest donation any Davidson student body has ever men cach. At the University of
made toward a single cause in such a brief time. A liberal subscrip- Michigan at least 60 men enter
tion to a cause, however, does not necessarily involve thrift. It denotes every competition, and recently the
generosity and an unselfish spirit, but real thrift is made of different number reached 153. This shows the
stuff. _interest which ought to be prevalent

According to all authorities, thrift is not saving money, it is not’ here.
making money nor hoarding wealth, nor is it even the giving of money The students themselves consti-
—it is the haibt of regularly laying aside a portion of what is being re- tute and control a society. l€ there
ceived by avoiding the useless expenditures for unnecessary things. The be any good derived from it, they
essential element therefore is the habit, and not the money. themselves must be the originators

The cultivation of this habit during the war was wonderfully suc- thereof. The society is only an in-
cessful. This was done under compulsion and now when times are good strument, as it were,in our hands,
and money plentiful, extravagance has become prevalent in every. and can be of no more benefit than
walk of life. Students have never failed to be affected by such a strong any other instrument would be if
national wave. The result is, that whereas the cost of the essentials— | we did not choose to use it. There-

board, tuition, etc—used to practically cover a student’s expenditures,
it now represents for the average man about one-half of his annual out-

ut.
P We are told that our life habits are made while we are at college
or during the period which we would normally expect to be there. To
be thrifty is an essential of business success and if our ambitions are to
be completely realized this habit must be cultivated right now.

fore it depends wholly upon the ac-
.tion of each individual student
whether or not the society shall ac-
icomplish its object.

This age calls for men who can-
speak their thoughts. It calls for:
leaders, and the leaders of the coun-

PA

ad KA

4 , SS herent)
Es

Read the Exchanges in the “Y”

Room.

To the Basketball Scrubs.
The scrubs get the rubs—I’ll admit
they’re dubs—
But they’re game right through to
the core.
They get all the knocks, they are
treated like rocks,
But they grin and they ask for
more.

They’re not looking for fame, but
they’re playing the game,
For each is a fighter at heart.
A cheer for the scrubs who get all
the rubs—
Let’s make it good from the start !

—_—

As Others See Us.

We men are apt to think we are
“It.” but here are some excerpts
from our female exchanges:

Women’s faults are many,
Men have only two—
[everything they say.
And everything they do.

His Photograph.
He thought he’d surely made a hit,
When for his photograph she
prayed—
“Out when he calls,” she wrote on it,
And gave it to the maid.

“Do you think you could learn to
love me?”
“Well, | passed Analytics.”

He—Who is that letter from?
She—What do you want to know

for?

He—There you go! What do 1
want to know for? 1 declare you
are the most inquisitive woman |

ever met!

Made It Unanimous.

It was married men’s night at the
revival meeting.

“Let all you husbands who have
troubles on your minds stand up.”
shouted the emotional preacher, at
the height of his spasm. :

Instantly every man in the church
rose to his feet except one.

“Ah.” exclaimed the preacher,
peering out on this lone sitter, who
occupied a chair near the door and
apart from the others, “you are one
in a million.”

“[t ain’t that,” piped back this one,
helplessly, as the rest of the congre-
gation turned to gaze suspiciously
at him. “I can’t get up; I'm para-
lyzed.”

————_—_————————

try will not be men who spend most
of their college life studying books
or wasting their time loafing, but
those who see the need. of a literary
training and take advantage of the
opportunity which the society gives,
will be the leaders.

Will you not join? A.H.

Sa

you with several select shapes.

We. DEMUTH &

LAR

LN seg le:

OU'LL smoke a WDC more than an ordinary pipe,
: because it’s a sweet, mellow smake.
pipe connoisseurs and have three, four, cr more WD C Pipes

on your rack. Smoke a cocl one every time.
know what a real smoke is. Any

WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS” OF FINE PIPES

A Hint.
Any Fellow—“Absence makes the
heart grow fonder.”
Any Girl—“So do presents !”

Truth.

“Style may be making women
wear their skirts shorter, but it
isn’t style that is making men wear
their pants longer.”

Mary had a Freshman,

Whose head was slick and bald,
He wasn’t very wise, ;

But she thought he knew it all.

Jim (at a dance)—“Ain’t I light on
my feet?”
Fair Damsel—“Yes, but awfully
heavy on mine.”

Doctor—Are you fellows going to
let this girl run off with the blue
ribbon in chemistry?

A Voice—Ladies first, Doctor.

Miss—"Yes, I’ll marry you on one
condition.”

Mister—"That’s all right.
tered college on four.”

1 en-

Tom—*“But on what grounds does
your father object to me?”

Essie Mae (sadly)—“On
ground within a mile of our house.

any
a
“Red” Smith (to young lady on
train)—“My name is Smith.”
Young Lady—“Well, who said it
wasn't.” '

Soph—Have you ever had Me-
chanical Drawing? ;
Sissy Freshman—N-n-no, but 1

just love to paint on linen.

(=

L. A. ELLIOTT

CANDIES
FRUITS, ETC.

See me for your feeds

WE DELIVER

THE BEST FRESH MEATS

Phone orders Solicited.

WHITE'S MARKET
Phone 25-W. Cornelius, N.C.

FLOWERS

Louis G. Ratcliffe, Charlotte, N. C.

Flowers for all occasions at pop-
ular prices.

Orders taken for delivery in any
city in the United States.

DAVIDSON AGENCY
A.G. Oltman. Room No. 13 Watts.

TTA

Follow the old

Then youd
good dealer will furnish

CO.. NEW YORK

A
