See Page 2
For

Conference News

FOR A GREATER DAVIDSON

Vol. VII.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON. N. C.. FEBRUARY 19, 1920.

No. 20

“FLU” BIDS HILL FAREWELL.
NO ILL RESULTS APPARENT

After a brief sojourn of about a
week and a half, the flu has departed
from the campus of Davidson Col-
lege. By this we do not mean that
everybody has completely recover-
ed from the flu, but that the ap-
pearance of new cases has ceased
and that of the few patients re-
maining in the Infirmary, those
down with the flu are rapidly recov-
ering. For a few days rumors were
traveling the campus that a number
of the boys had contracted pneu-
monia. However, we have been glad
to hear that they were very mild
cases.

At no time during the epidemic
was the situation especially serious.
Of course we know that for a few
days a number of boys were packing
up and leaving, but it has been found
out that they were more unfortun-
ate, in proportion to their number,
than those who remained on the hill.

We should congratulate ourselves
on the fact that we have fared as
well as we have, and we trust that
we may be as fortunate in the fu-
ture.

Bolshevists Routed in
Running Fight by
R. O. T. C.

No Casualties Due to Blank Car-
tridges--Country People
Terrified

“For the lack of a rider the battle
was lost, and all for the lack of a
horse-shoe nail.” Had Napoleon
known of the sunken road at Water-
loo the destinies of the four hun-
dred and forty students at the good
college of Davidson might have been

substantially altered. 1f a poor, un-.

'Y.M.C. A. Extends Hearty, All Colleges Urged to|Miss Kluttz Urges Large

offensive, retiring, brown cotton-tail
had not jumped up in front of the at-
tacking hosts of “C” company in the

sham battle held last Thursday, the.

“Reds” might have been defeated,
but the rabbit jumped up. Company
“C” devoted their attention and re-
maining ammunition to the hare, to
the utter disregard of the semi-hy-
pothetical enemy and at this junc-
ture the contest was called off.

The battalion, with the exception
of “D” company, marched out the

Concord road, accompanied by aj

rather large camp following. <A
purely imaginary group of Bolshe-
viki were engaged in their usual pur-
suit-of plunder and securing arms at
Concord. “A” company acted. as ad-
vance guard on the outward march.
It seems, however, that the members
of that order of Russian origin were
devoting their entire attention to
Concord and vicinity and none of
them are encountered along the two
miles of macadam which were tra-
versed by the unit.

At the two-mile post the cam-
paigners were halted—with their
faces toward Davidson, and the in-
formation was imparted to them to

State Volunteer Conference Meets Here Mch.
12th-14th—Over One Hundred Delegates Ex-
pected—Splendid Program Being Arranged’

Letter Received from Miss Klutz, State President--Y. M. C. A. Extends Hearty Welcome to
Visitors---Miss May Fleming and Dr. J. Lovell Murray Among the Speakers

Welcome to Visiting
Delegates

Dear Friends: The dates, March
12, 13, and 14, are red-letter days on
_Davidson’s calendar. We look for-
ward with pleasant anticipation to
these three days when high thinking
i students from every college in the
state will be our gues‘s. ‘his will
be Davidson’s first opportumtry to
entertain a convention of the nature
‘and spirit of the student volunteers,
and we predict that it will be an oc-
casion not soon forgotten. .

The Y. M.C. A. (of which every
student is a member) bids every
delegate welcome to our campus.
Your sojourn with us is so short
that we cannot afford to waste time
in getting acquainted with each ob-
er. Let every single delegate re-
member this, that from the moment
_you arrive at the Union Station you
are admitted into the intimate circle
of our friends. Every Davidson man

the effect that war had been declar-; is ready—nay, eager to serve you.
ed between the Reds and themselves; While on our campus you are en-
(Blues). The Catawba river bridge; titled to all the privileges of a Se-
was designated as the boundary line: nior without being burdened with
between the belligerents, and the; his dignity, and we hope that wher
battalion was ordered to march, the time comes to part, it will be
toward the river without delay. with the spirit and mutual under-
Company “C” was assigned as ad-; standing of good pals.
vance guard on the westward march.| There is an often quoted rule
Pop, pop, pop, went the rifles of. about conventions, that only those
the Red outpost, and the hearts of get something out of it whe put
several Freshmen of the advance! something into it. You know what
party sympathetically responded happens to the man who “much re-
with flop, flop, flop. The fire was ceives and nothing gives.” We hope
from the north of the road, the firers that students at every college in the
concealed by pine woods and the!state (both men and women) are
firees seized by surprise and a desire: praying for the success of the con-
(Continued on jage 8) (Continued on jage 8)

Davidson Extends HEARTY WELCOME to VISITING DELEGATES |

HOSTS OF THE CONFERENCE

Register Delegates
Promptly

Miss Janie Klutz, President of the
Student Volunteer Union of North

farolina for Forcign Missions, has
authorized the Davidson committec
to assume the responsibility of re-
cruiting delegates. This committee
has sent letters and enrollment cards
to as many institutions and out-of-
college volunteers as they have on
their list.

The plan is to allow each institu-
tion three delegates for the first one
hundred students and one additional
for each additional hundred stu-
dents.

Should your institution be entitled
to send delegates and have not re-
ceived a letter, communicate at once
with Box 12, Davidson, N.C.

Should any reader be entitled to
come as an out-of-college volunteer,
fill out this duplicate card and mail
it immediately to convention head-
quarters, Box 12, Davidson, N. C.

It is imperative that action be
taken at once because Registration
Closes March First. This is done to
allow ample time to properly assign
delegates to their homes, to permit
other final arrangements, and to let
the colleges so wishing to All up va-
cancies with Extra Delegates.

Hf your’s or your institution’s prop-
er cards are not in the committec’s
hands by March 1, 1920, they reserve
the right to assign your place to
those others who wish to come.

To make the 1920 Conference the
best the Old North State has ever

(Continued on page 4)

$

Peace Oratorical Contests
to Be Resumed

This Year

Preliminary Contest to Be Held Either
in Raleigh or Greensboro—-Win-
ner to Compete in South
Atlantic States Contest.

The national oratorical contest for
under-praduate college students will
be held again this year, according to
information from Professor Blair, of
Guilford College. He is the director
of the contests in this state. This
series of contests was interrupted
by the war, but it is now planned to
put it back on a firm basis again. A
preliminary contest for North Caro-
tina will be held about the Ist of
April, cither in Raleigh or Greens-
bare, «All the colleges of the state
are requested to participate by,send-
ng a representative, and the inner
of the state contest then competes in
the South Atlantic States contest.
The winmer in that then has a place
in the national contest. A handsome
prize will he given to the winner of
the state contest, which in past
years was $50, but it is not now cer-
tain that this will be the case this
year, Davidson has been represent-
cd in most of the past contests and
in 1914 Mr. BL F. Pim won second
place in the state finals. The pre-
liminary will be held in college about
the middle of March and any stu-
dent is cligible. The donors of the
prize have attached only one condi-
tion and that is that militarism must
not be discussed. The subject of the
oration is the setting forth of any
method to secure universal peace, |

‘STUDENTS EXPRESS SYM-
PATHY TO BOBBY LONG

The students all extend heartfelt
sympathy to Bobby Long at the
news of the death of his inother,
Mrs. L. T. Long. Mrs. Long «isd
after a short illness, at her home in
Winston-Salem, last Sunday, Those
who knew Mrs, Long and learned
to love her thru her many kind-
nesses, realize the loss to her friends
and relatives, but take comfort in
the knowledge of a life well peut
with many crowning deeds of inelp-
fulness.

Attendance and

Earnest Work

My Dear Friends:

lt is with pleasure and yet un-
easiness that ] write you. Pleasure
because our State Student Volunteer
Conference is to be so svon; uncasi-
ness because we, the officers, know
that the conference is not ours alone,
but for all of you, and in some way
we may not do all the best things
for you. But with God’s help and The whole student body was sorry
your help we hope this will be the to learn that Mr. Miles was at home
biggest and best state conference we all last week with the fin, bac they
have ever had. Phere are several will be very glad to learn that he is
things I] want to write you. recovering rapidly, As The David-

First, we are anxious that all col- sonian goes to press ‘he is able to’sit
leges in the state be represented, up in his room and hopes to be. aut
and we are especially anxious that the last of this week.
all the smaller institutions be rep- © Mr. Miles has been missed from
resented with their full quota. It is the campus during his sickness and
primarily for you that our confer- it is hoped that he will soon be back
ence is being held. We want to help in his office with his accustomed
you in every possible way, but we strength and pep.
will not be able to give you as much

MR. MILES TO BE
BACK ON JOB SOON

help as we would like if you are not
represented.

Second, we are anxious that inso-
fur as possible all delegates be stu-
dent volunteers, so make as many of
your quota student volunteers as
possible and then if extra ones wish
to go, send the students or faculty
who will bring most back to those.
who stay at home. Some people have
the mistaken idea that the confer-
ence is the place for a great deal of
volunteering to he done. We want’
some, it is true, but what we want
the conference to (6 is to give so
much to all volunteers present that
when they reach their college after:

(Continued on page 4)

CALENDAR.

_ Basketball—Owing to the “flu”
situation it is impossible to an-
nounce the basketball schedule for
the week. There will probably be
three games.
_ Friday Night—Sunday School and
Bible Class Leaders’ meeting. 6:45.
_Saturday Night—Literary  socie-
ties, 6:45: Movies, Mary Pickford
in “Rags,” 8:30; Meeting of Re-
porters’ Club after movies.

Sunday—Bible classes, 10 a. m.:
Church Il a. m.; “Y” service, 6:15
.m.

Monday Night—Fresh-Soph Dec-
clamation contest in “Phi.” hall.

ry
