8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 19, 1920.

begin at ‘once to cross Penington’s| picture which certainly carried us back [( taceminceeremereas 5 GAEAEESEC SST eee R Raa RE EEE EET RARE TREE EEE

tracks. Penington, having heard of the|to “Ye good old days” when “Tige” was
franchise, persuades the mayor to callla pup. THE GARBER-DAVIS
Celebrated Novelty Society Orchestras

and Mrs. Caleb Richmond Harding, of
Davidson, and is & brother of Mrs. A. .\.
McGeachy and Mrs. Addison Brenizer,
of Charlotte. He was educated at Da-
vidson College and is a young man with
keen intellect and strong personality.
Mr. Harding was a member of hospital
‘ unit O, which his brother-in-law, Dr. Ad-

a special meeting of the council and re-
call the franchise, but it was too late, for

Cardigan’ 's men almost had the crossing
ie THE RALEIGH

Penington quickly sent his “gang” in

dison Brenizer, of Charlotte, organized,|to delay the work and a general fight ’
and was overseas for more than a year. | ensued. Penington was arrested and his Charlotte 8
Since the war Mr. Harding has been con-| men joined Cardigan. Sight is restored Best Cafe

nected with the Firestone Tire Company,
as adjuster.

He is held in highest regard by his
company. Mr. Harding possesses an at-
tractive personality and genial manners
and commands a wide circte-of friends m
business and society.

Dr. and Mrs. Harding went down to
attend the wedding.

—_——_D—..._.__.
LOYALTY TO COUNTRY
AND COLLEGE

(Continued from page 1)
mala manner. There was also a limited

to Cardigan’s father and things run
smbdoth. Wallace Reid played the part J. T. Matthews, - - Prop.
of young Cardigan. Phose 346
A short one-reel comedy followed this
. 221 W. Trade St.

PEQFECT PRINTING PLATES

. PLAYING FOR
number of medals on hand at that time. I:
During this presentation the battalion DANCES, COLLEGE FRATERNITIES and all SOCIAL FUNCTIONS
remained at rigid attention while the ; |
non-R. O. T. C. students and townspeo- JAN GARBER E. PAGE YARBROUGH
ple looked on in awe. Silence spoke Owner and Director Business Manager

louder than words, the thanks of the
people to the boys who were ready to
make the supreme sacrifice if necessary
that the world might be made safe for
democracy.

After this solemn ceremony the per-
sons decorated assembled themselves in
the reviewing stand while the battalion
paraded in a column of -platoons. The
lines of the platoons ‘were almost per-
fect, but the first platoon of C Company,
commanded by First Lieut. J. P. Price,
was pronounced the best by some of the
observers. This was not offcial as there
was no official report.

The ex-service men who received med-
als were:

Hearn, T. G., captain.
Johnson, W. T., first sergeant.
Champe, C. W., sergeant.

| sow oTK OUTFITTER Say it with Flowers | L. A. ELLIOTT

SCHOLTZ, the Florist Candies, Fruits Etc
9 eo
Charlotte, N. C.

JETTON DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS See me for your feeds

PLATEMAKERS FOR |The Macamac Company
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Ryan, J. B., sergeant.
Hood, Fraser. Knight, J. L. ,
* McConnell, J.W. Adams, A. N.
Elliott, H. B. Legare, W. S.
Blue, J. M. Sorrells, G. B. Ve
Potts, C. A. Johnston, W. G.
Query, S. M. Booe, E. L. Hourly fou Sew Orleans , ete!
Lacy, F. A. Cathey, H. M. = =a — a
Fisher, C. J. Brown, C. G. ° .
Brown, D. °. ree Say > ofhL clock, ‘VU etn shar Avme -_ id kite to Rea r w
ooth, W. elton, C. J. ‘ d
AND TODAY fenally pulled) ow Dicer oe aba fan euge Got Aut right |

(Continued from page 1)
when lumber and building material were
cheap. Chambers may be compared to
a monster hen spreading out her wings
to their fullest extent and trying in vain
to cover her too large brood. She still
looks down on the busy campus life and
smiles, as she thinks of days gone by.
When days grow cold and the wind
whistles through her halls, a shudder
tuns through her frame and she thinks
longingly of that future day when her
chambers shall be heated with steam.
(To be continued)
———_D—__—_
WALLACE REID SEEN IN LAST
MOVIE

e

“Well— Jv Fad, ny eqnvatiy Lisson, coviinuaady Te arouse, “Dunc
eal, down ie ow got Rota oF 5

A MWS ther Quality and aiduoos
Aekight ful = Ati ‘vale a Bisel dale ans Cont
Comfin tition of choices Tuntiuake Gud) Chore Pomestie, Aotracess' on
$s — Lame& Aue Wwhot & Cqwrotti Sfiguld i

iis 9 te sys Si "Emm, fudee, every Word you Spill é in @ Senteiter'”
Now, Cele, ats tet e

sets Maks We “ind of asl Tanti gevn Jurmg Stuff you get noth
Rat little, sReofy-uill wag ther Anil!

Idd Some Ane Ruridin ov 9 Growsed, Poe Aa se a quaint oe
V Camed peng ia re dione ant He,

In the great redwood forests of a
Western State, there was a wonderful
valley, known as “The Valley of the
Giants.” This valley was especially
sacred to a certain family known as the
Cardigans.” The mother in this little
family was buried near an especially
large redwood and this was the cause of
its sacredness.

Coming back from college, young Car-
digan, meets with an old sweetheart
from whom he hears that his father is
almost blind and that he is almost com-
pelled to see the “dear old valley.”

Arriving at home, he finds that Pen-
nington, the father of his sweetheart,
has refused to carry out a contract to
haul his father’s lumber, and on this ac-
count the valley would have to be sold.

Cardigan, furious with Pennington, be-
gins at once to clear the matter.. He
sends for “Buck” Oglivy, a famous pub-
licity man, and the two at once begin to
formulate plans for building a new rail-
road, which they intend at first to serve
as a bluff. Later, however, with the aid
of other lumbermen, they decide to build
a road for sure. Meanwhile, the valley
is sold through a lawyer to Penington’s
daughter.

They decide at once to get a franchise,
as it was necessary for them to cross
Penington’s road. Using a “J. P. M.
' brand,” they easily get the franchise and

