PERFECT PRINTING PLATES
a

Christian
PRESIDENT WILSON ASKS

COLLEGES TO CELEBRATE
LANDING OF PILGRIMS

December 21 Set As Day for Me-
morial to Early American
Settlers.

The President recently issued a proc-

colleges of the country to celebrate the
three hundredth anniversary of the
landing of the Pilgrims. A national
commission to direct the movement has
been established with three members ap-
pointed by the President and six by Con-
gress. A great deal of literature on the
subject has been received here but it
is regretted that the examination sched-
ule will probably make anything like an
adequate celebration of the day impos-
sible.

The text of the President’s proclama-
tion (abbreviated) follows: .

“My Fellow Countrymen: December
21, next, the tercentenary of the landing
of the Pilgrims, will be becomingly ctle-
brated at Plymouth and at other ltocali-
ties in Massachusetts. While this is
proper and praiseworthy, it seems to me
that the influence which the Pilgrims
have had upon our development and
progress as a nation merits more than a
local celebration and makes fitting a na-
tionwide observance of the day.

“I therefore request that we observe
th 21st of December, next, throughout
the Union, and especially do I recom-
mend that the day be fittingly observed
in the universities, colleges and schools,
that salutary and patriotic lessons may
be drawn from the fortitude of this little
band who established on this continent
the first self-determined government,
and thus planted the seeds from which
has come the mighty nation.”

One student suggests that if we “ob-
serve the fortitude’ of the Pilgrims when
they were being shot at by Indians, we
will be better able to handle ourselves

PLATEMAKERS FOR
THE DAVIDSONIAN

iy Opry ge } .
Chia gdyler Cr

ATHLETIC: OUTFITTERS
2G1 AP fl WEY YORI

The Macamac Company

Agents in our conflicts with the faculty on De-
cember 21.
° —A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—
The Hoover & Smith Co. SUNDAY, SCHOOL TEACHERS |
OFFICIAL FRATERNITY
ad cliche ra ete
aldwell, the Mill an
COLLEGE JEWELERS heir perseverance i

deserye credit for their perseverance in
the face of such discouraging weather
as they encountered last Sunday. They
report the following attendance:
Caldwell—zo pupils, 4 teachers.
Mill—4s5 pupils, 3 teachers. °
Shearer Chapel—3z pupils, 7 teachers.
~A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

C. E. MISSIONARY SERVICE
INTERESTS LARGE NUMBER

615 Chestnut Street ~ Philadelphia, Penna

WATCHES, CLOCKS and JEWELRY
Full Line of Pennants
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweser
Davidson, N. C.
Si
<=>
letelineof Sirk
the season’ athletic paraphernalia

When using on implement bearing the
Spaldin you cannot question

Work and Needs of Seven Countries
Given in Novel Way.

FALL
SPORTS
A.G.Spalding & Bros.

A missionary service to which the Se-
nior Christian Endeavor Society had
been looking forward for several weeks
was held last Sunday afternoon. Seven
Endeavorers, three girls and four boys,
Presented the need of equipment in each
of the seven countries in which the Pres-
byterian Church in the United States
maintains mission stations. The boys
wore arm bands of flags of the countries
they represented—Brazil, Africa, Mexico,
Cuba, and the girls were in costume to
represnt China, Japan, and Korea. The
speeches were well worked up and in-
creased the missionary information of
the audience. .

After the appeals were made it was
voted by those present, including Junior,
Intermediate and Senior Endeavorers,
students and townspeople, that the $50
which was to be given for equipment in
one of the countries represented should
go to Brazil, represented by Rolston Bit-
Local agent zer. Bitzer was given the privilege of

Presenting the check to the society

D. W. ROBERTS 23 Watts (| casurer.

j nahe monthly consecration service of
the society will be held Sunday after-
UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
UNIVERSITY, VA.

noon. The topic wilt be “Progressive
EDWIN A. ALDERMAN, D. D.. President

Living.” Each member is supposed to
take part, and an interesting meeting is
The folloming departments are represented: The| assured. Students will be cordially wel-
College. The Department of Graduate Studies. ¥
The Department of Law. The Department of

comed.
Medicine. The Department of Engincering. The| —A Merry Christesas and Happy New Year—
Department of Education. The Summer Session.

Miss Sarah Lingle, of Salem College,
Freo tuition to Virginia etedents in the Academic

Departm Loan funds evailable. Ali oth on the past week with her parents,
te. e er r. and Mrs. 7. Li °
exponnes reduced toa minimum. W. Lingle, having as

her guests Misses Mary S. Parker, of
For catalogue or information concerning the Unl-

Washington, N. C., and Georgia Riddle,
versity of Virgints, address vex escsraan. |°f Morganton, N.C.

ing trade
the judgment of those who win

them. e Spalding trade mark is a
guarantee of quality and satisfaction.

satisfacti:
Catalogue malied [reo on request.

A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
THE COMMISSARY

Have those old shoes made
new by the

SHU-FIXERY

Charlotte, N. C.

ilamation calling upon the schools and:

THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 3, 1920.

Activities

POCKET TESTAMENT
LEAGUE PRAISED

BY MR. MELL

“Y” Secretary From Rock Hill Re-
lates History of the Movement at
Sunday Evening Service.

“The step which has meant most to
my life, outside of accepting Christ, was
the one I took when I joined the Pocket
Testament League,” said Mr. Mell dur-
ine his talk fast Sunday evening to the
Y. M. CLA.

Mr. Mell is the Y secretary at Rock
Hill and is doing a wonderful work
dewn there among the boys. In intro-
ducing him, Louis Schenck said: “I
have worked under Mr. Mell andI want
to say that nothing has given me greater
pleasure than to work under such a
man.”

The subject and theme of the talk was
the Pocket Testament League. It was
started, explained the speaker, by a
young girl in England. She was inter-
ested ‘in the good of those around her
and thought that this would be a fine
way to help them. This lady afterwards
became the wife of the famous singer,
Chas. M. Alexander. He, with the help
of Dr. Torrey and Dr. Chapman, made
the organization worldwide. Anyone can
join the league upon the signing of the
declaration. card which says that it is
the purpose of the one signing, to carry
a Testament with him wherever he goes
and to read a chapter from it every day.

Mr. Mell went on to tell the different
ways men read their Bibles. Some are
spasmodic readers, reading whenever
they feel so inclined; others are random
readers, still others are consecutive
readers, starting with Genesis and going
through to Revelation; some read whole
books and others study certain topics.
The speaker said that he had read his
Testament in every conceivable place, in
trains ,in airplanes and on boats. It was
always by him, his closet friend.

He closed with a strong appeal to all
present to think over the matter seri-
ously and if they see the way clear to
definitely sign up with the league, and
many of those Present went forward to
sign up for the Pocket Testament
League.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—
THANKSGIVING SERVICES

HELD IN DAVIDSON .
COLLEGE CHURCH

At the Presbyterian Church Dr. Rich-
ards conducted the Thanksgiving serv-
ice. In his address he related the bless-
ing which God had given the American
people during the past year and showed
that the people of Davidson should be
especially thankful for the many bless-
ings which they had received during
1920,

Beginning with the Pilgrim Fathers,
he gave a short history of Thanksgiving,
showing that the nation has always been
a Christian nation and has enjoyed the
blessings the Pilgrims sought when they
came to America.

The second of the great blessings God
has given to America is its leading place
among the nations. In the war her
military power was recognized. In the
government of the world she has much
to say and much influence. There is
hardly a great philanthropic movement
in which America does not have a part
or leads. America is greatly blessed, and
along with those blessings comes a great
responsibility to live right.

The third great blessing of which Dr.
Richards. spoke was the past year of
peace and plenty. This has not been a
year of war to bring pain and death to
the young men, and suffering and grief
to the people, but it has been a year of
plenty throughout the land. Crops and
wages have been good and there has
been no great epidemic of sickness or
famine.

In closing Dr. Richards showed by a
very vivid comparison what a blessed
country this is. He compared America
with China and her 40,000,000 starving
citizens and spoke of the 32,000,000 starv-
ing children in the Near East. .

A Thanksgiving offering of $175 was
taken up for the Church’s wards at
Barium Springs Orphanage.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

Mr. and Mrs. G. H. Warlick spent
Thanksgiving with Mrs. Woosley, their
daughter.

.

thanksgiving, and the flowers and grass
of the field bloom and sway with de-
light.” He then pointed out that human
beings should be as thankful, and even
more so than nature.

Following Dr. Arbuckle’s talk, each
Endeavorer told of a blessing for which
he was thankful, and carried a bag of
apples to the front, where he helped fill
a barrel, which was afterwards carried
to Barium Springs.

The service was closed by an appro-
priate solo by Miss Nina Holt White.

This meeting shows that Intermediate
Christian Endeavor work is worth while,
and it will repay any man in college who
is interested in Christian work to attend
a service conducted by the wide-awake
Intermediates of the Davidson Church.
~—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas

and Victor Records
We send records on approval. Write for special service plan

Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N. C.

INTERMEDIATE
CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR
DOES GOOD WORK

Thanksgiving was appropriately ob-
served by the Intermediate Christian
Erdeavorers of the Presbyterian Church
at an early morning service on Thanks-
giving day. About 30 happy girls and
boys came together at 7:45 Thursday
morning to express their appreciation
for God’s goodness to them during the
year, e

After a chain of short prayers, Dr. Ar-
buckle read the 103d Psalm. Then he
made the Intermediates a Thanksgiving
talk, using as a text, Isaiah 55:12: “The
mountains and the hills shall break forth
before you into singing, and all the trees
of the field shall clap their hands with

J. B. Reading, Cornelius, N. C., Writes Insurance.

He wants your business. He represents
only the best companies and has every
facility for meeting your requirements.

He is also a Public Notary and at your
service.

LIFE INSURANCE--
A PROFESSION .

The Southern Life and Trust Company's Training School
for Agents end multiple line of insurance provides the
equipment necessary to real Success in life insurance salesmanship
Our Motto: “The largest service to the largest number”
Write to the
SOUTHERN LIFE and TRUST COMPANY

HOME OFFICE--GREENSBORO, N. C. CAPITAL—ONE MILLION DOLLARS
sonoosccocoocooossccossconscosesonoooscososesosceooeoconcecoeooosoosccoscooecesees

A Perlect Home Piano

Our ‘‘Factory-to-Home

| Plan” offers very attract-

ive terms. Catalog on
Tequest

Taming Repairing Moving
CHAS. M. STIEFF. Inc.

ESTABLISHED ite
M. D. MANNING, Manager

219 S. Teyon Street - : - . Charlotte, N.C.
Soccescooososcosoosooooooooosocsscoococoscooecooeooocoosocoscosesosoeoecoesosoccece
queccccsocccosoocoocooconecoccesoossoonsoooocoooocescoscoonseoseoeeooncceccesesces

NONE TOO SMALL NONE TOO LARGE

We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size

The Commercial National Bank

SOSOSSCOCCOSSOOCOCCOCCOOOBOOOCCCEO
Seeccccosooccsooobooocesooooooccs

of Charlotte, N. C.
R. A. DUNN. President A. T. SUMMEY, Cashier
1D. H. ANDBRSON, Vice-President 1. W. STEW ; Cashier
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President T. 8. MoPHAR TERS ant Ce Cashier.
*CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC., OVER A $1,000,000.00 aN
encccocconooooosoocosesoooocosceacoosnsesosonesoocoo‘eseceseececoosoococoocescoeces

S. & W. CAFETERIA

Good Food Served Quickly
at Very Moderate Prices

20 West Trade St.

