4

The DAVIDS

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year. ;

ONIAN

aoaaeaeeanananamananamqyqoOn0a=?ananana®a»®»aee ge ah, Aan nmin Editar hefore
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before
12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

Sr

J. E. CASSELL....-------------------------------------

.---Editor-in-Chief

-

. M. ARDS.......------------2------- 222 oe ee oo nee ne Managing Editor
eo RIGHOND. ee ne ween ene nee anon ene wenn Assistant Managing Editor
J. P. PRICE._-...-----------------------------2---------------0- Assignment Editor
M. R. DOUBLES..--.------..----...--------------------------- =o Athletic Editor
C. J. MATTHEWS...---..---------------------------------- ----Alumni Editor
J. C. McCASKILL.....-.---------------------------- 2-202 -Exchange Editor

on--e Forum Editor
ween anne eee en-- ee Campus Editor
weenanee--- Y. M.C. A. Editor

weeceoeenn-n- Social Editor
Literary Editor

enone nnen---! Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB

BAILEY, J. C.
BITZER, R.

rnb

McKEITHAN, J. H.
OGDEN, D. H.
ORMAND, A. C.

GAMBLE, W. A.
LONG, C. G.
MAHOOD, D. L

COOPER, W. J. MAUZE, G. W.
CUNNUNGHAM, C. E. MITCHELL, A. M. SUMMERS, A. C.
DAVIDSON, R. F. PHILLIPS, J. W. WOOL, J. Cc.
A
E. A. NASH | wee e enn mne penance ecen en nenne een ce een nn nene=- Assistant Managers
J. S. CURRY
CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT: / .
C. H. LONG..-_.---..------------------------ ++ 29 o-oo ne Circulation Manager

J. C. WOOL--..-.------: been nee ene ce wenn ene-- neon feewnnnnenenn-- Assistant Manager
Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

“Four things a man must learn to do
If he would make his record truce:

To think without confusion clearly ;
To love his fellow-man sincerely :

To work from honest motives purely;
To trust in God andfleaven securely.”

While we would not prefer a hot region all the time, yet a little
warmth in the radiators would not be amiss during these chilly days.

O where, O where can the Damage Committee be? From the con-
tinual window glass breaking program it would seem that it has shuf-
fled off this mortal coil.

The plans for giving the team a rousing send-off for the W. & L.
fame must have miscarried, for there were only a handiul of students
present when they left. Why not make it a custom to always have the
band and a cheering crowd of boys to send them veff and to welcome
them back?

Do you think the students would be interested in a college minstrel
to be given cach year in the fall?

Why doesn’t some energetic man of the Class of ‘21 embark upon
the mission of locating the key that will unlock the Senior l'rivileges
for this year?

——

It is glad tidings that the student body has taken the matter of
raising the money for our Annual into their hands. “A Bigger and a
Better Davidson” must have a bigger and a better. Annual.

We are watching, we are waiting for the first Lyceum number.
The students should back the enterprising promoters of this plan to add
to the too limited social life of our campus. Let each student buy a

ticket to show his appreciation.
that does not savor of a proper attitude and spirit compatible

JUST A MINUTE, FRESH!
A with our democratic campus. It is not our policy tu be continu-

ally finding fault, but it is our purpose by this medium to strengthen
and improve the student life of our school if we can. For this reason

REPORT has been coming to our ears rather steadily of late

ee

OCTOBER 8, 1920.

| Open Forum

HOW SHALL THE
STUDENTS AT DAVIDSON
SALUTE THE COLORS?

The proper marks of respect to he
shown the colors by men in uniform
and men out of uniform and men
with nothing on save a track suit
or some other form of athletic dress
has heen a greatly disputed question
on the campus here of late. The
colors are usually on display just
outside the door, near the com-
mandant's office, in good weather,
and no man should fail to show them
the proper respect when passing
that way.

The following set of regulations
governing the saluting of the colors
has been issued by Captain Hearn,
and public sentiment on the campus
should see that they are observed
by soldiers and civilians alike.

1. Every man in uniform and una
rmed passing within 30 paces of the
colors shall render them the pre-
seribed right-hand salute.

2. Every man in uniform and
armed with the rifle passing within
30 paces shall render the prescribed
rifle salute.

3. Every man dressed in civiliati
clothes, with hat on, passing within
30 paces, shall render the prescribed

salute for civilians; that is, the hat:

to be removed and placed over the
heart with the right hand.

4. Every man dressed in civilian
clothes, without the hat, shall ren-
der the prescribed right-hand salute.

5. Every man dressed in athletic
garb of any fashion passing within
30 feet of the colors shall render
the prescribed right-hand salute.

6. No man shall pass and salute
the colors while moving in double
time: upon coming within saluting
distance the quick time should be the
pait, and this gait should be. held
until well past the colors.

Fellows, it is our duty as well as
our privilege to salute the flag of our
country at the proper time and in
the proper way, and while the out-
ward form of the salute is good, yet

it is only half what it should be if -

the: proper spirit is not behind it.
Let us recognize in our national col-
ors the emblem of our nation aid the

principles for which it stands, and

only then, we are calling attention te a fact which we hope soon to see:

eradicated.

Any stranger coming to this institution will notice one custom
quicker than anything else, namely: that EVERYBODY SPEAKS TO
EACH OTHER ON OUR CAMPUS. It does not matter here whether you
know each other or not so far as speaking is concerned when you pass a
fellow-student. It is enough to know that he is a Davidson student, and
being aware of that fact it is your duty to smile and say, “Hi, Gentle-
men,” at least. It always has been, and it is to be hoped that it will
continue to be, that every Davidson student will be democratic in his
dealings with his college mates on this campus. Forbid that the time
should ever come when the meu of this school should become so self-

let us be justly proud to respect it as
such, Yeliab.

REDPATH’S LYCEUM
TO PRESENT
FIVE NUMBERS

Varied and Excellent Programs to
Be Presented Here.

The great success of last year's
Lyceum Course has guaranteed to
the Davidson student body even a
bigger and better course of enter-
tainment for this year.

Under the direction of TE. A. Nash
and C. H. Long, who have succeeded
in arranging five of Redpath’s best
numbers, the entertanments promise
to be of unusually spicy variety.

The first number comes October
Hl, at which time Ralph Bingham,
well known as America’s Foremost
Platform EHumorist, will preside,
with an evening devoted to stories
and music which give promise of
causing many wrinkles to disappear
and not a few sideaches from whole
hearted laughter,

On November 1, the Four St.
Claire Sisters will appear with
quartet numbers, piano solos, duets

and instrumental pieces on the
mandolin, banjo and violin. Piano-
logues, readings and humorous

songs with action will also be given.

centered and engrossed in their own affairs that they could not speak -

a friendly word to their fellows when passing.

If such a thing should ever happen, then snobbishness, now so for-
eign to us, would hold sway, and that friendly, congenial atmosphere
that makes every student love Old Davidson would pass into oblivion. In
view of this we cannot help feeling that it is our duty to warn and
advise the new men that they should swing into line regarding this cus-
tom of many decades. It is you whe ina short two or three years will
be the leaders here; therefore, it is imperative that you inoculate your-
selves with this simple but sound principle of ordinary every-day cour-
tesy. As Freshmen, do not think that you are to be spoken to first.

|

The next entertainment is Mrs.
Fiechtl’s Tyrolean Yodlers on
November 16, This company was or-
ganized in Innsbuick, one of the
most picturesque places in the
Swiss Tyrol. They appear in the
picturesque and beautiful national
costume of their people, the most
attractive in all Europe. Two com-
plete changes of costume are made
during their program.

The New York Glee Club comes

This is your right as well as any upperclassman, and we want to see|some time soon after the Christmas’
holidays. The date has not yet been‘

you exercise that right to the limit.

Just remember also, men, that it does not cost anything to utter definitely set.

This well-balanced

a friendly greeting, and yet sometimes just one or two words spoken|male quartet have a popular pro-;

in this way will change the entire aspect of things.

real man. Try it, Freshmen, and see if we are not right.

; It will make the| gram of vocal music, offering ample
whole day seem better and brighter and you will feel like you are ajopportunity for the harmonious;

blending of their individual, strong

Read the exchanges in the “Y”
Room.

DECATUR BAPTIST COLLEGE
COMES OUT WITH NEW
PIECE OF JOURNALISM

The “D. B.C. Whim-Wham,” Vol.
1, No. 1, made its appearance in a
four-column cight - page snappy
newspaper form September 22. The
Whim-Wham hails from Decatur
College and carries a fair amount of:
advertising. The editorial page is
also well filled.

Captain. Price (in Sub-Science.
class)—Where did the egg come
from?

Class—The hen.

Captain Price—Where did the hen
come from?

Class—The egg.

Captain Price—Which got here
first ?—Bayonet.

The new students are expected to
put the pep into the football games
the same as the old ones. Let them
get into the spirit and help our
teams to win.

POINTERS TO FRESHMEN.

When you first get here, get ev-
erything straightened up.

Write home often.

Join a literary society.

Take an active part in the Y. M.
C. A.

Subscribe tu the “Reflector.”

Keep up with the activities of the
Student \ssociation.

Learn your songs and yells.

Go to the Campus Sunday School.

Learn the names of all the fuot-
hall players. .
Gio out for some form of athletics.
Keep up with your studies.
Keep off of the military report.
Do all this and you will not have
that curious feeling that some of
you have been worrying about.

CONDUCT YOURELF
LIKE A GENTLEMAN

Fellows, there is a lot meant in
that word “Gentlemen.” A) good
clean life can be built on the strong
foundation that is implied in that
word “Gentleman.” J have never
seen ii new body of cadets, as we
have here on the “Hil” now, that
seemed to conduct themselves in a
more gentlemanly manner.

I need not enumerate the things
that fulfll the definition for that
word, but remember—that clean

and clear voices. The program is
varied so as to appeal to the lovers
of all different kinds of music.

The final number completing this
well rounded course will be a noted
Jazz Orchestra, rendering all the
popular new pieces with pep and
ardor.

ee i ee

=

ts,

| Meacsurnrnnacien

my

TA A AAA

‘by upper classmen.

‘his brother W. C. Worth, ‘21.

Tires
i ONL
Weammiaiaailll. Traoe

NY tobacco— every tobacco— tastes better ina WDC
Pipe, Our own specially seasoned and carefully selected
French briar makes it so. Add to this the superctaftsman-
ship of the Demuth workers, and you'll not wonder that we

speech is one of the highest marks
of a true gentleman. A fellow can
very quickly be sized up either for
the good or the bad after he has
been in contact with fellows who
do try to be Christian gentlemen.
‘\ courteous manner, of course, is
always very pleasing and is one of
the highest marks of a gentleman.
There are many more equally im-
portant things to fill this bill, that
when followed out will make you a
one hundred per cent gentleman.—

Bayonet.

ARALYZED AS RESULT
P OF COLLEGE PADDLING

I:mporia, Kans., Sept. 22.—Andy
McCoy, of Wichita. a freshman in
the College of Emporia, is paralyzed
below the waist as a result of hazing
He was struck

with a paddle.

Charlie W. Worth, ‘20, spent sev-
eral days on the Hill last week with

e
was enroute to Wilmington for a
ten days’ vacation before resuming
his work at Union Seminary.

SALESMEN WANTED to solicit orders for

lubricating oils, greases and paints. Sal-
ary or Commission. Address THE LENOX
OIL & PAINT CO., Cleveland, O.

WATCHES, CLOCKS and JEWELRY
Full Line of Pennants

W.S. HENDERSON, Jeweser
Davidson, N. C.

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
UNIVERSITY, VA.

EDWIN A. ALDERMAN, D. D., President

The folloming departments are represented: The
College. The Department of Graduate Studies.
lhe Department of Law. The Department of
Medicine. The Department of Engineering The
Department of Edu.ation The Summer Session.

Free tuition to Virginia students in the Academic
Departments. Loao funds available. All other
expenses reduced to ¢ minimum.

For cstalogue or information concerning the Uni-

versity of Virginie, address
THE REGISTRAR.

SPORTS

A.G. Spalding & Bros.
carry a complete line of :
the season’s athletic paraphernalia.

When ustng an implement bearing the

Spalding trade mark, you cannot question

the judgment of those who win with

them. The Spalding trade mark is 4

guarantee of quality and satisfaction.
Catalogue maited frve on request

A. G. SPALDING & BRCC.
THE COMMISSARY

Have you paid your
subscription yet?
Send those two bones in

immediately! This is your

last copy of “THE BEST COL-
LEGE WEEKLY” unlil---we re-

uu

vt,

Ny ‘-
ta

at

ee AAA TEA ARMA

claim pre-eminence in the quality of our pipes. Ask any

good dealer.

We. DEMUTH & CO.. NEW YoRK

WORLO's LARGESTEMAKERS OF Fring PIPES

