THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 22, 1920.

The DAVIDSONIAN

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before
12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

J. E. CASSELL-.-.........-....----~--.-------------------------=--- Editor-in-Chief
J. M. RICHARDS...-. wennnnnn nnn. wawecennecesesene Managing Editor
A. P. ORMOND... Assistant Managing Editor
1 PRICE...___. ~-Assignment Editor

. R. DOUBLES-___...-.-----.-.-..----~~--------------.--------- Athletic Editor
C. J. MATTHEWS..........-.----.--.----.-------. ---------Alumni Editor
J. C. McCASKILL-.-___----.--..----.--------------------------2--- Exchange Editor
J. R. BOULWARE, JR...2-..2.-2---- enn n neem eee e wenn nnnnne. Forum Editor
J. M. DUNLAP..........----------22- 2-2 enn nn ene nn nn enna nn nnn ea cee- Campus Editor
D. W. ROBERTS..........---.---.------------- --Y. M. C. A. Editor
H. A. HILL...._--_ nen nnn nee ene ne nnn nn en nnn nen nn ne Social Editor
J. M. GASTON, JR.---..- -...---Literary Editor
R. R. McILWAINE...... ---Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB

W. P. CUMMING
R. BITZER

M. W. DOGGETT
J. W. PHILLIPS
E. H. TUFTS

. M. GILMER
A. C. SUMMERS

Additional Reporters: J. H. Davis, G. W. Mauze, H. H. Smith, E. Fewell,
J. A. Thames, R. F. Davidson, C. D. Tuller, W. J. Cooper, M. P. Calhoun, J. T.
Wilkes, D. H. Ogden, T. L. Frazer, P. Brown, C. Green, W. T. Elliott, H. M.
Morris, A. D. King, C. G. Long, A. C. Ormond, S$. HL Denny, J. F. Clark.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

A. G. OLTMAN...-....-------------- nnn nn ene eenn nnn e nnn e-- eee Business Manager

E. A. NASH :

JS. CURRY [Orono Assistant Managers
CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:

C. H. LONG..---...........-.-.----.-------.-------2--- 2-2 - =| Circulation Manager

J. C. WOOL....-...------------.-----.--.---------------------- Assistant Manager

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

| EDITORIAL |

Now that the days have become warm and balmy do not try to
hide your lazines under the old excuse of “spring fever.” A good pan-
acea for this malady is the old saying, “If you must kill time, why not
try working it to death.”

It seems that every week has its wonders. The past one witness-
ed the breaking of our “athletic hodoo” by the decisive defeats of N.
C. State and Wake Forest. May this strange being never visit us again.

Davidson should be indeed glad that she has a coach of “Dutch”
Hengeveld’s type. His players consider him ideal in every respect, and
- are anxious to give him the best they have at all times. May he lead
the baseball team through a successful season this spring.

We are glad to learn of the resurrection of the Glee Club, for
there is something wrong when Davidson cannot turn out a first-rate
musical organization of this kind. It is to be hoped that the good work
of its leaders will keep up as it is almost necessary that we be repre-
sented in this phase of college activity.

That it pays to keep training was amply demonstrated in the track
meet of last Friday. It is hardly possible for a man to come to David-
son or any other school, for that matter, and win for himself the high-
est athletic honor unless he disciplines himself in order to keep physi-
cally fit, yet there are always men who look at it in a different light.
Furthermore, a man cannot give his best to his school unless he does
keep training, and who is there on our campus who does not place Da-
vidson first. We hope that the men on our various teams will soon
awake to this fact, and they will be willing to deny themselves a few
things in order that the glory and reputation of the prowess of the Red
and Black athletic teams shall receive a powerful impetus at their

hands.
A concerning Blue Ridge from the articles contained in this issue,
it will be useless to go into any elaborate explanation as to what
this place is and for what it stands. Yet.we do not feel like letting this
opportunity pass without putting in a good word for this now famous
and well known Conference, and urging upon the students of this in-
stitution that they plan their summer so as to contain the ten days of
June devoted to this gathering of Southern college men.

That your time will be well spent offers no ground for argument.
Every man who ever attended one of the Blue Ridge Conferences left
with the feeling that he had a new lease on life, that his vision was
broadened, and that his purpose to live a life of consecrated service
strengthened many times over. There are men in this student body
who can attest to this fact, so what better proof is needa.

Blue Ridge is the place where you meet the finest and best man-
hood in the South; it is the place that offers that strong, virile, active
religion that is so needed in the life of our country today; it is the

lace where the ideals‘ of a man cannot but be elevated, and best of all,
it is the place where so many men find and dedicate themselves to lives
of Christian service. In view of all these advantages and benefits
which Blue Ridge has to offer, can any man here at Davidson afford
to neglect this Conference if he can possibly help it.

_ We have always been fortunate in having a splendid representa-
tion at Blue Ridge composed of men who have made the name of Da-
vidson a prominent and honored onein the various activities of this Con-
ference, and this year cannot be otherwise. The other colleges in this
State are preparing to send exttemely large delegations and our insti-
tution cannot and must not fall down on this particular job. And so
again we would urge upon every student that he make his decision

‘OW to go to Blue Ridge this summer, if possible, in order that he may
not only be benefited ersonally, but so that he can bring back some-
thing with him next fall that will help foster and develop the spirit of
our campus of which we are so proud.

°
.

WHY NOT I?

S no doubt our readers have gained all the essential information

MORE ABOUT FIRE.

A week ago Sunday, when Gov-
ernor Bickett was speaking in
Shearer Chapel, just at the most in-
teresting point, some of those who
should have been there to hear him
yelled “Fire!” just because there w
ere no lights in the dormitories. It
seems to me that we are getting a
little careless with our yells of
“Fire!” The custom is ingrained in
the student body, and I don’t sup-

ose it will ever be broken, though
it is directly contrary to the laws of
North Carolina; but we should, if
we yell it at all, confine our “Fire!”
to occasions when “fire” is to be
seen. On the occasion mentioned
above, it caused quite a commotion
in the rear of the hall, several citi-
zens of Davidson getting up and
hastily leaving, because they
thought that there might be a real
fire. Davidson is entirely unprotect-
ed, and should there be a fire, all the
aid which can be counted upon is
that which the students wish to ren-
der in carrying out household goods.
So every time “Fire!” is heard, it

‘| brings quite a bit of uneasiness into

the minds of the householders of
the town. We don’t think of that,
for it would not take a minute for
us to run up to our rooms and drag
;out a trunk, but we should be con-
siderate of those who have the re-
sponsibility of a home. It does no
good at all to yell the word on any
and all occasions of excitement, and
it does a great deal of harm, so let
us be careful the next time, and
“think before we holler.” ‘21.

Can you afford to miss Blue Ridge?

NEED OF DRAINAGE
ON THE CAMPUS

For the last two or three years
the walks on Davidson campus have
been going from bad to worse in a
number of ways. While the way
paths are being made across the
grass is being fought by the college
and right-thinking students in a
general way, though not vigorous-
ly, the greater evil and to some-ex-
tent the cause of the above mention-
ed habit is not being mentioned and
considered. This fact, the way that
after every rain water stands and
mud is gathered in all the walks,
affects us all and every day is marr-
ing the beauty and symmetry of our
campus. For to avoid walking in
this mud and water, we all step on
the grass just outside. This has
been gradually worn down until the
walks are now a foot or more wider
on each side with all the grass near
worn to an ugly condition. If the
walks were properly graded and
drains put in to carry off the water
they could then be made to serve
the purpose they were put there for,
even if it does rain, we could cross
the campus, our shoes would fare

, better, and cutting short paths
would be discouraged with so much
better walks to use.

Can you afford to miss Blue Ridge?
SPEAKING ON THE CAMPUS.

It has been a custom for everyone
to speak on the campus. It seems
as if this has been neglected by
some of the fellows and especiall
the Freshmen. Let's all try to speak
when we pass. It won't hurt you
to “Gentlemen,” “Fellows,” or
something of the sort when you pass
on the campus. Let’s all keep up
the good work of “Old Davidson”
and see if we can’t have a more
democratic student body.

X. ¥ Z.

Lines by Jack Farmer.
“Fergittin’ Things”

“Ef people jest lived ever’ day
Like they talk on Sunday,

But like the fearful lobster
They jest “back up” p’rhaps by

Monday.
They heer the parson preech and

baiv d ’
En lou expound "is text, sir,
En then th’ hull thing, strange to
say,
They fergit by the very next day.”
Blu

—The Orange and e, Carson
Newman College.

nr ee ry

eee eee.

ont
Tah

ats

has f

Read the Exchanges in the “Y”
Room.

Washington & Lee to Debate Uni-
ve itary Training in
Tri Debate.

The triangular debate between
Washington & Lee, Johns Hopkins,
and University of North Carolina, is
to be on the subject:

“Resolved, That a system of uni-
versal military training for young
men should be adopted by the Unit-
ed States.”

Davidson is debating this same
subject with Mercer University,
Randolph-Macon College, and Dick-
inson College.

Mississippi to Get Appropriation.

The Senate of Mississippi by the
close margin of one vote has passed
an appropriation bill by the terms of
which the University of Mississippi
will receive approximately $700,
in addition to something over $300,-
000 in the form of a support fund.—
The Mississippian.

Discipline at M. I. T.

Discipline is a thing which most
American college students lack to
an alarming degree and there is no
doubt that a certain amount of army
drill with real officers such as we
have here at Technology is the very
best remedy for the trouble.—The
Tech, Mass. Institute of Technol-

ogy.

Vanderbilt Dons Overalls.

The staff of the Vanderbilt Hus-
tler has donned overalls and have
founded the Vanderbit chapter of
the United Overall Wearers of these
free United States —The Vanderbilt
Hustler.

“A Little More Than Kin.”

Last year I asked my best girl to
become my wife, and she said, “No!”
But I got even with the girl. I mar-
ried her mother. Then my father
married the girl. Now I don’t know
what I am.

When I married the girl’s mother
the girl became my daughter, and
when father married my daughter
she was my mother. Who in the
dickens am I? My mother’s mother
(which is my wife) must be m
grandmother, and I being my grand-
mother’s husband, I am my own
grandfather.—Life.

Before Exams.
O Lord of Hosts, be with us yet
Lest we forget, lest we forget.

Thé Lord of hosts, was with us not,
For we forgot, for we forgot.
. —The Highland Echo.

Spring, Oh, Beautiful Spring.
The days are growing long,
Whiskers are growing, too,
The grass is getting green again,
- And the dollars are getting few.
—The Crimson-White.

I

know what a real French briar is, and what the Demuth

seasoning will do to make it

a WDC Pipe full of your

Just You.
Sometimes dismay beclouds the

way,
It seems all hope is gone;
While stars, all bright, fade out of
sight
And yet no glimpse of dawn.
’Tis then I hear a voice so dear,
And life is fair of hue;
The sun’s bright light dispels the
night,
Because of you, just you.
—The Hornet.

Extracts From Letters Received by
War ent.

Extracts from letters actually re-
ceived and filed by the war depart-
ment at Washington:

“I ain’t got no book larning and
I ain’t writen for no inflamation.”

“She is staying at a dissipated
house.”

“Just a line to let you know that
I am the widow and four children.”

“Previous to his departure we was
married by a justice of piece.”

“He was inducted into the sur-
face.”

“I have a four months old baby
and he is my only support.”

“As I need his assistance to keep
me enclosed.”

“Caring to my condition which I
haven’t walked in three months with
a broken leg which is number 75.”

“Kind Sir or She?”

“I enclose lovingly yours.”

“I am left with a child 7 months
old and is a baby and cant’ work.”

“T am his wife and only air.”

“You asked me for my allotment
number. [ have seven boys and six
girls.”

“Please return my marriage cer-
tificate. Baby ain’t eaten anything
for three days.”

“Both sides of our parents are old
and poor.”

“My bill has been in charge of a
spitton (platoon?). Do I get any
more pay?”

Extract from a boy’s letter: “TI
am sitting at Y. M. C. A. writing
with the piano playing in my uni-
form.”—Ex.

She—Can you drive a car with
one hand?
He—No, but I can stop.
—Ga. Tech-Technique.

F you would know real smoke contentment, just you smoke
favorite tobacco. Then you'll

break in sweet and mellow.

Ask any good dealer to show you a variety of shapes, then

pick yours,

Won. DEMUTH & CO.. NEw YORK

“ WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES

/

