THE DAVIDSONIAN, January 15, 1920.

| Sealed Tight

“

For rosy cheeks,
happy smniles, white
teeth. good appetites
and digestions.

{ts benefits are as GREAT
as its cost is SMALL!

pip
y I; MM i

Bir Vid
Za

VL Pej:

{t satisfies the desire for
sweets. and is beneficial. too.

Kept Right

1

Wy
\

PLARM/INT

Feculty

Literature and Exegesis.

h P
Bible and Homiletics.

WILLIAM H. MILLS, A.B.,
Smyth Lecturer, 1919-1920—A.

thodox, Loyal to Southern Church.
Write to

SAY IT WITH
FLOWERS

SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.
Jetton Drug Company, Agents
aaa oD

L. A. ELLIOTT

CANDIES
FRUITS, ETC.

See me for your feeds

.WRIGLEYS
45 ,

COLUMBIA, S. C.

THORNTON WHALING, D.D., LL.D., President of the Seminary,
Professor of Didactic and Polemic Theology.

WILLIAM M. McPHEETERS, D. D., LL. D., Professor of Old Testament

HENRY ALEXANDER WHITE, Ph.D., D.D., LL. D., Professor of New
Testament Literature and Exegesis.

RICHARD C. REED, D.D., LL. D.,

and Church Polity.
JAMES OVERTON REAVIS, D.D., LL.D., Professor of the English
EDGAR D. KERR, A.B., B.D., Instructor in Hebrew and Greek Lan-

fruages.
GEORGE S. FULBRIGHT, A. B., Instructor in Elocution.
D. D., Instructor in Rural Sociology.
H. McKINNEY, D. D.
Smyth Lecturer, 1920-1921—W. H. ROBERTS, D.D., LL. D.
Our most progressive Theological Seminary—Diblical, Scholarly, Or-

Professor of Ecclesiastical History

D. D.

PRESIDENT, Columbia, 8. C.

THE RALEIGH
CHARLOTTE’S BEST CAFE

J. T. MATTHEWS, Prop.

| 221 W. Trade St. : Phone 3486

WE DELIVER
THE BEST FRESH MEATS

Phone orders Solicited.
WHITE'S MARKET

Phone 25-W. Cornelius, N.C.

"| in advance, every one was eager to

Great Convention at Des Moines. | regular sessions of the convention | in the day. Most of the time it was
_every delegate was privileged to at-; well above the zero mark.
(Continued from page 1) ‘tend a great exhibit of posters in The railroad officials are to be
Frank Price. Rumor has it that he; the city auditorium. There were congratulated on the way in which ,
was well repaid for his “volunteer” here over 400 such representing they handled the crowd. ;
‘service—two bottles of Kentucky Work in various countries, the work than an hour the Rock Island's
| cider guaranteed kickless. of various religious organizations,' genial station master had sent one
As the Southern Railroad and the oustanding features of the work regular and seven special trains on
| some of the folks in the Chicago '™ many colleges, the needs of the/ their way rejoicing in the homeward
railroad yards would have it, North ‘world and many other timely topics. journey. Others are to be thanked
land South Carolina were the last to! Here also was the convention post| for the stop-over in Chicago and in
arrive in Des Moines, advertised as office, (a aeleane, room and a rest|Cincinnati that was allowed many
“The City of Certainties,” and, Tom or delegates. __ of us. ,
‘known to us as “The City of Hos-! It would not be true to the con-; There were set burning in Des
pitality.” The afternoon session was ‘Moines fires that can have come

vention to close any account with- |
well under way and of course it was|out saying that prayer was much: from nowhere save from the altars
God was behind it all.

| impossible to attend it. ‘emphasized during the sessions. Dr. 'of heaven. u wa .
Ample facilities for the registra-i Mott, himself, is a man of prayer Every delegate in his or her serious
‘tion of all delegates were found in| and it is no wonder that he should| moments offers the prayer that God
the Polk County Court House. Ev-|direct the great body of delegates! May bless with fruition the seed
ery delegate was soon the possessor | into that special part of our worship | SOwn at this the greatest convention
of a red ticket of admission to the; that God’s richest blessing should) in the history of the movement and
Coliseum, our headquarters, and a| rest upon the meeting. In these|in many ways the greatest religious
introductory letter to their place of ;moments of silent meditation that| gathering of college men and wom-
abode. Some few were able to hear| characterized the meeting every|€n in the history of the world.
the closing words of the afternoon delegate was drawn closer to the
and to get a glimpse of the enor-;One whose power could be felt in
;mous auditorium seating nearly 19| the great gathering.
| times as many as our local chapel.| No word of too high praise can be
But to give the idea and the im-' given the people of the hospitable
‘pressions of the convention that’ convention city for their many kind-
imany would wish is impossible for) nesses. Ladies in every church in
such an article as this. In the very| the city banded to furnish food at
front of the large audience were the| moderate cost for the delegates.
foreign students, numbering well} Every person approached was will-
| Up into the hundreds and seated ac-| ing at all times to.render any serv-
cording to the countries that they | ice possible that would add to the
represented. Just behind these were’ comfort of the delegates.
the various delegations grouped ac- ,
‘cording to the state or province of.
jthe United States or Canada from
‘which they came. The first floor
| seemed large enough but there were
also two balconies, and in the first
of these were five of the Davidson
men, Chalmers, Schenck, Bitzer,’
Richards and Mauze sat with the
North Carolina crowd, while Mc-
Clure had to join the reporters’ club
to get admission to the convention.
The main sessions of the conven-
tion were held morning and even-
ing in the Coliseum. These serv-
ices were full of interest to every
lone. It being a policy of the com-|
| mittee not to announce any program

DR. W. A. WITHERS ELECTED
PRESIDENT OF CHARLOTTE

Dr. W. A. Withers, ’83, vice-presi-
dent of the State College of Agri-
culture and Engineering, has been
elected president of the Charlotte
“Y. M. C. A. to succeed Dr. W. S.
Rankin, who resigned his office be-
cause of the press of other duties.

Heaven smiled her blessing in fair
weather, and what the people of Des
| Moines called a warm spell with the
; temperature ranging from 10 be-
low zero at night to 10 or 12 above

Rev. T. P. Johnston, °14, has mov-
ed from Welch, W. Va., to Chris-

tiansburg, Va., where he is pastor
of the Presbyterian Church.

Elegance and Character are Marked Features in Our
NEW COLLEGE CLOTHES

The style features are notably distinctive, the fabrics attain
the eminence of elegance, and the tailoring is handled in so smart
a manner as to insure absolute shape-permanance and grace in
fit and drape. .

We welcome a visit to this young men’s section where the
fall styles are displayed.

“SOCIETY BRAND” and ‘““FASHION PARK”’
HANAN SHOES, DABBS HATS

THE TATE-BROWN CO.

CHAR LTTE °

see and hear what was coming next.
The great themes that were the cen-
ter of the various sessions were,
“The World and Its Opportunities,”
“The Great Religions of the World,”
“The Latent Capacities of the Col-
lege Men and Women of America,”
“The Need of the World for the-
Gospel,” and in addition there was
always present the cali for conse-
crated lives for sacrificial service.
If one great lesson can be picked
out of the convention is is probably
“The world needs men. There is aj
place in the world for each of us.
It is the duty of each of us to find
that place.”

Tt would be impossible to do more
than give the names of a few of the!
speakers. Of course John R, Mott |
and Robert E. Speer were the lead-'
ers. In addition we find Robert F.!
Wilder, the founder of the move-
ment, and J. Ross Stevenson, vice-.
chairman of the movement. Other
speakers were G. Sherwood Eddy, of
India; J. T. Robertson, of Boston;
David Porter, senior secretary of:
the Student Y. M. C. A. in ‘the:
United States; Miss Louise Holm-'
quist, leader of American Y. W.C._ |
A.; Geo. E. Haynes, in behalf of his |
own race, the American Negro;;
Dean Brown, of Yale; Bishop Mac-
Connell, of Denver; Dr. James Endi-
cott, of Toronto; J. Campbell White,
of New York; W. H. Foucks, leader
of the New Era Movement of the
Presbyterian Church; James I.:
Vance, of Nashville; Robt. A. Hume, !
of India; Samuel M. Zwemer, of:
Arabia, and other speakers of na-
tional and international reputation. |

Two other features of the conven-! }
tion must not be forgotten. Each | and sty les from Fifth Avenue. (

afternoon there were held sectional
Lingle Clothing Co.

conferences — Thursday, according
|
|
CHARLOTTE, N.C!

A Victrola In Your Home

Gives access to the best music in all the world producd
by the Greatest Artists

Sheet Music

Panos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments,

and Everything in Music

F. H. ANDREWS’ MUSIC STORE

* 213 N. Tryon St. Phone 3626 Charlotte, N. C.

OUR STOCK IS COMPLETE

Suits, Overcoats, Hats, Caps and

Raincoats. Get yours now; avoid

the holiday rush. Every garment

represents the newest models, colors

to countries; Friday, according to
kind of work; Saturday, according
to denominational affiliation, and
Sunday two great mass meetings for
men and women. The great out-
standing feature of these confer-
ences is the memories that dele-
gates will have—not of visions—but
of actually seeing men of Macedonia
pleading, “Come over and help us.”
One of these was none other than
Paul Kona Mauri, the Billy Sunday
of Japan.

During the hours between .the

203 W. Trade St.
“LOOK FOR THE SIGN” |

B. A. Lingle. D. A. Presley. |

_It Pays to Advertise Provided You Advertise in The Davidsonian /

In less ©
