THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 189, 1920.

This space reserved

for the

Stonewall
Hotel

Charlotte, N. C.

For your events. We carry a
full tine of Stationery, Huyler’s
Candy, Waterman's Fountain
Pens. Agents for Scholtz, the
Florist.

Our Drinks
Are Unexcelled

Special service given to your
prescriptions.

Yours truly,

Jetton Drug Co.

CHARLOTTE
TRANSFER COMPANY

‘ Phone 298

JAKE MARTIN, . Manager

Secccccccccccococccecccecccososccceooosoes
Rev. L. Cook Campbell, ex-'13, of

Berkeley Springs, W. Va., has moved to
Fayetteville, N. C. “

eeoeooossoooooooeoeoooce seeeenCee
Soooosoecooosocooeseoeoesosooce

Dr. William M. Shaw, '15, of Sumter,
S. C, has charge of all X-Ray work at
the Tourney Hospital, in Sumter.

: His parents were Robert
Dowell and Rebecca Brevard.

= vidson for seven years.
=|preparatory department of the college

FRANKLIN BREVARD Mc-
DOWELL

Former Mayor of Charlotte Was
Member of Famous Class of '69.

Franklin Brevard McDowell is a na-
tive of Iredell county, N. C., although
most of his life has been spent in Char-
lotte. He comes of that sturdy Scotch-
Irish race which did so much to build up
North Carolina. Two Signers of the
Mecklenburg Declaration of Independ-

#lence, Dr. Ephriam Brevard and Gen.

Robert Irwin, were among his ancestors.
Irwin Me-

Mr. McDowell was a student at Da-
There was a

then in which he remained three years.

aiHe entered the college proper in 1865.

Those were trying times of war and re-
construction, yet his class made a record
for scholarship which has never been
equaled at Davidson. The twelve men
who composed the class of ‘69 made an
average for the four years of 97.31.
After leaving Davidson, Mr. McDowell
studied law at the University of Vir-
ginia, although he never practiced it as
a profession.

As a member of the board of aldermen
and as mayor for two terms he helped

Zito lay the foundations of the modern
5 | Chazlotte.

It was during his adminis-
tration that the ‘first concerted effort at
paving the streets was made. College
street, which had not been safe for
ladies because of its saloons and unde-
sirables, was cleaned up at the same
time. The $85,000 post office which was
only torn down a few years ago, was al-
most entirely due to his persistence and
tact in dealing with postal officials in
Washington.

Mr. McDowell has been allied with
several business interests of Charlotte.
He was a director of the First National
Bank and of the Union National Bank.
He was one of the charter members of
the board of directors of the Henrietta
Cotton , Mills, one of the largest and
most successful corporations of its kind
in the state.

- It has been said that no North Caro-
linian can be a gentleman and be ig-
norant of the history of his state. For
many years Mr. McDowell was the
president of the Mecklenburg Declara-
tion Society. He has also written ar-
ticles on Colonia! History and sketches
of several Scotch-Irish neighborhoods.

North Carolina has not been the only
scene of his endeavors, for Mr. McDow-
ell has crossed the ocean several times.
In fact, he was abroad when the late
war broke out.

Davidson is justly proud of this alum-
nus of such genuine culture and ver-
satile ability.

—__ py

The following Davidson men are now
studying at the University of Virginia:

F. A. Thomas, '20, medicine; W. D.
Wylie, ex-'20, medicine; F. L. Knight,
ex-’20, medicine; J. B. Faison, ex-’15,
medicine; J. W. McNair, cx-'22, engineer-
ing; J. C. Watkins, ex-'13, ‘aw; B. King,
ex-’20, academic; M. W. Gibson, ex-’19,
academic; F. A. Hilf, ex-'15, academic;
W. H. Rogers, '15, graduate department.
King is singing in the Glee Club; Wat-
kins is playing high class scrub football;
Hill, is teaching Spanish; Rogers is
teaching English.

Among the alumni who saw us give N.
C. a trouncing Saturday were:

L. L. McAllister, '20; James Carson,
"16; “Woody” McKay, ex-'14; “Pud” Cos-
by, ex-’15; Harvey Orr, ex-’17; T. W.
Hawkins, '20; Charles Montcastle, ex-'18;
Dr. L. T. Wilds, '06; Charlie Angle, ’18;
R. R. Clarke, ‘19; D. I. McKeithen, °17;
L. B. McKeithen, '19; “Pebble” Stone,
'19; Bob Richardson, '18; J. D. Watts,
"19; D. R. Nimocks, ex-'22; “Turk” Shaw,
‘18; “Dong” Elliott, ex-'20; T. W. Cowan,
‘1; E. D. Taylor, '11; C. M. Taylor;
ex-’08; L. L. Wilson, ‘20; Lavins Thomas,
18; R. L. Black, ex-’20; A. G. Oltman,
ex-'20; W. I. (“Johnny”) Johnston,

them. It is here, th their lives, that

ex-'22; W. M. Fetzer, ‘06; A. Ted Cash-
ion, ‘15.
—_— DJ ——_____——
DAVIDSON SPIRIT.

From a Paper Read by Prof. Currie
at Armistice Day Celebration.

One of the great systems of education
was that of ancient Rome. Its purpose
was to pass on to each new generation
the tradition and character of the old,
and so perpetuate through the centuries
the sterling virtues and lofty patriotism
of the Roman citizen. In order to ob-
tain this much desired end, they were
accustomed to hold up before the young
for their emulation the lives of their
illustrious living, and the deeds of their
mighty dead.

With somewhat the same purpose I
am here this morning, for it seems par-
ticularly fitting that on such an occa-
sion as this, when we are met together
to commemorate the glorious ending of
the recent world tragedy (in which the
sons of Davidson bore no mean part)
and that at the same time to celebrate
the occasion of the founding of our be-
loved college, we should contemplate
for a brief while the lives of those who
have gone before us. They drank for a
time at this fountain and then went their
way. The college placed her stamp up-

we find Davidson College, for Here alone
is her tangible achievement. We hear
much in these latter days of “The David-
son Spirit.” Is it a new thing that has
only recently begun to function, or it is
as old as the college itself? A study of
the lives of our alumni reveals the
“spirit” of Davidson as an ancient thing,
something that was at work far in the
past. It reveals it also as a most desir-
able thing, something to be perpetuated:
far into the future.

My part in this program is to speak of
Davidson's living alumni. In the time
alotted, it is an impossible task. I could
not even call the roll. Nor would it be
possible for me to analyze the “David-
son Spirit” into its elements and point
out the various virtues that one ‘might
expect to find in an alumnus of the col-
lege. I have chosen rather to single out
three characteristics that one may rea-
sonably look for in a Davidson man, and
then see if I could find among the living
alumni one who personified that char-
acteristic in his life. I do not claim
that these characteristics are the most
important or desirable. I do not even
think so. They have been selected rath-
er because they have not been empha-
sized as much as others on previous oc-
casions. And the men were chosen not
because they are the only ones discov-
erable, but because they are fairly typi-
cal of many others.

The first of these characteristics that
we may oak for in a Davidson alumnus
is scholarship—a broad, thorough, sound
scholarship, divested of all pedantry and
cant. We should go very far to find one
who better typifies in his life this most
desirable quality, than Evander Bradly
McGilvary, salutatorian of the class of
‘84. Continuing his studies after gradu-
ation here he became a fellow of Prince-
ton, and a Ph.D. of the University of
California. Later he was translator for
the Presbyterian Board of Foreign Mis-
sions in Siam; Sage Professor of Ethics
in Cornell University; and since 1905
Chairman of the Department of Philos-
ophy in the University of Wisconsin. As
a member and officer in the most im-
portant philosophical societies of the
world; as translator of the Gospels into
the Laos dialect of Siam, a work of un-
paralleled difficulty; as teacher in two
of our great universities, and as pub-
lisher of a voluminous list of articles
of philosophical and scientific subjects,
he has abundantly established his repu-
tation as a broad and profound scholar.

The second of these characteristics
noted here today is what I shall call—
for want of a better name—“Educated
Business Sagacity’—that sort of sixth
sense that enables a man to dominate in
the business world, which when properly

educated, makes him a tremendous pow-
er for good in our civilization. A Da-
vidson alumnus who looms large in this
connection today is Lawrence Shakle-
ford Holt, of the class of '71, cotton man-
ufacturer of Burlington, N. C. As busi-
ness organizer in the larger sense, as
bank director and as cotton mill builder
and administrator, he very early demon-
strated an ability that won him a posi-
tion of commanding importance in the
commercial and social world. He was
rated 30 years ago as one of the first
three millionaries in his native sfate,
and to his everlasting credit be it writ-
ten, he was the first manufacturer in all
the South voluntarily to shorten the
hours of labor, which he did in 1886 and
again in 1902.

The third characteristic we may hope
to find in a Davidson man is an unself-
ish devotion to the welfare of others.
This quality is not a rare one in the
product of this institution. It is mani-
fested in the daily life of a multitude of
our missionaries, preachers, doctors and
business men. However, I wish to point
out to you today a man whose life rec-
ord is singularly sweet with the aroma
of this divine gift. He is John White-
head, salutatorian of the class of '75, of
Salisbury, N. C. After graduating at
Davidson with this high honor, he fitted
himself for the practice of medicine at
the University of Pennsylvania, and
went to Salisbury to make his home in
1880. For 40 years he has ministered to
that community in this capacity, and his
fame as a physician has spread far be-
yond the confines of his own town and
state. But it is not as a doctor that |
mention him today. He typifies to a
marked degree the quality I have
chosen. He is the well-beloved friend of
rich and poor, bond and free. Those
who know him testify that no one in
trouble ever appealed to him in vain~—
men in high positions and men in the
lowly walks of life—men clothed in all
the habilaments of respectability, and
men down in the mire of sin and de-

spair instinctively turn to him as the!

one to whom they can safely appeal, for

gacity—Unselfish Devotion to the Wel-
fare of Others—these are three of the
many desirable qualities included in the
“Davidson Spirit.” McGilvary, Holt,
Whitehead—these are three of the many
distinguished alumni who are living lives
permeated by the “Davidson Spirit.”
—__p_—_____

HARDING-LINK WEDDING.

A wedding in which much social in-
terest centered was that of Miss Mary
Link and Mr. Robert Henry Harding,
ex'16, which took place last week at the
heme of the bride's father, Mr. H. G.
Link, on South Tryon street. Rev. Dr.
A. A. McGeachy, brother-in-law of the
bridegroom, and pastor of the Second
Presbyterian Church, officiated.

The wedding was a quiet affair, being
attended only by members of the two
families.

Miss Helen
bridal music.

The vows were spoken in the living
room in front of an improvised altar of
towering palms, interspersed with white
chryanthemums.

Prior to the ceremony Mrs. Bonnie
Orr Lentz sang “I Love You Truly.”

The only attendant was Miss Alice
Jones Reeves, pretty little daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Jones Reeves, and niece of
the bride. She wore a dress of white
organdie hand embroidered, with yellow
sash, and carried the ring in a yellow
chrysanthemum.

The bride and bridegroom entered the
room together from the hall. The bride
wore a handsome suit of dark blue
velour with moleskin trimmings and
small hat of henna velvet. She wore a
corsage of bride roses and orchids.

Mr. and Mrs. Harding left immediate-
ly for a trip to Washington and New
York.

The bride is the fourth daughter of Mr.
H. G. Link, formerly one of Charlotte’s
most successful business men, but for a
number of years past retired from active
business. She was educated at Queens
College and is a bright young woman.

Johnson rendered the

the long record of his life teaches them She is pretty, with refined and gentle

that he will sympathetically serve them
even to his own hurt.

Scholarship—Educated Business Sa-

manners and is admired by a wide circle
of friends.
Mr. Harding. is the only son of Dr.

213 N. Tryon St.

Robinson Shoe

The Charlotte Steam Laundry
OLDEST LARGEST BEST

The Macamac Company, Agency
POWER HOUSE

Gives access to the best music in all the world pro-
duced by the Greatest Artists

Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet
Music and Everything in Music

ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.

Phone 3626

Charlotte, N. C.

Company

We carry a complete line of Fine Shoes

L
Robinson

for the Young Men’s Trade |
MAIL ORDERS GIVEN SPECIAL ATTENTION

Shoe Company

Gastonia, N. C.

