1 ar

ie; a a

THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 3, 1920.

2g
EB.
fay ° CN “4

DAVIDSON'S HALL of FOOTBALL FAME FOR THE SEASON of 1920

FOOTBALL MEN
AWARDED “D's”

On last Saturday night in Shearer
Hall, this year’s football team, were
awarded for their work and services as
Wildcats. Dr. Douglass awarded letters
to 16 men for valiant services rendered
during the past 10 weeks.

Those who were honored were:

Douglas, D**; Davis, D*; La Far, D*;
Brady, D**; Romefelt, Captain-elect,
D*; Hammett, Captain, D*; Schenck,
D; Moore, D; Poe, D; Shepherd, W.,
L; Shepard, N., D; McFaden, D; Cas-
sell D*; Bethea, D; and McCaskill, Mar.,
D.; Faison, D.

After the presentation of the honors,
Romefelt Captain-elect for next year,
made a few remarks praising the work
of Captain Hammett and presented him
with a silver cigarette case as a token of
appreciation from this year’s team.

Hugh Morton Grey, Coach, D**

Better known as “Wooly,” the man be-
hind the gun. Under his untiring efforts
and sacrifices for his men, Coach turn-
ed out a team this year, that did ever-
lasting honor to its Alma Mater. All
the success of the Wildcats eleven can be
traced back to the ability, patience and
all around personality of that man who
put Davidson’s name in the annals of
gridiron history, both as a former play-
er and later as a coach, “Wooly” Gray.
His men worked for him and fought
doggedly to the last ditch, because they
knew that win or lose, their Coach was
always with them.

Joseph Clyde McCaskill Manager, D.

The man who made it possible for the
fighting Wildcats to meet the teams they
did, and who is thereby indirectly res-
ponsible for their successful season. Not
only did he render his untiring services
to the teams, but also he made it pos-
sible for the whole student body to see
its team win four of its victories. “His
schedule called for the meeting of the
best teams in Virginia, North Carolina,
South Carolina and Georgia. Under his
management and advertising, the athlet-
ic association came out quite a‘ few
schedules ahead and from the looks of
the team, one would say that “Joe” put
out some good meals.

Lawrence Orr Hammett,
Captain and Tackle, D*

This tenth of a ton, consisting of meat,
bones, brawn and spectacular football
ability, led the Red and Black machine
this year. Supposedly playing at tackle,
Hammett really did everything on both
offensive and defensive, except carry the
ball. His magnificent build and the ef-
fective use thereof, made him a terror
in the enemy's sight and rarely ever did
he fail to take care of two men on his
side of the line. He played the game for
the game’s sake, and it was a real treat
to see him toss his headgear off and
lead his team. His wonderful adeptness
for getting down on punts, made him a
continual source of trouble for the op-
posing backfield and rarely was it that
he ever missed his tackle. Hammett's
name will ever be remembered in con-
junction with such Wildcat warriors as
Buck Flowers, George King, Wooly Grey,
Buck Burns and others.

Birchie Walton Romefelt
Captain-Elect and Guard. D*

At guard, “Romeo” was a bulwark of
strength in the line. He did not play a
particularly spectacular and spasmotic
game, but on the other hand, could al-
ways be relied upon to put up the same
old consistent defensive game. He will
be remembered particularly for his val-
ient work in the Wake Forest game,
when he repeatedly broke thru, pinning
their backs for 5 and 10 yard losses. His
super strength, altho not so heavily
built, made him a terrific charger, and
when he hit, something had to give way.
He was rewarded for his untiring serv-

ices, by being elected captain of next
year's eleven.

David Pitts Douglas
End. D**
Altho playing at end, “Pitts” generalled

the team this year. His particular skill
at calling just the proper play at the
proper time, distinguished him as being
one of the coolest-headed handlers of a
team in the state. “Pitts” played a dash-
ing game this year and was especially
efficient in handling forward passes.
Time after time he snatched passes from
midair, running 30 and 40 yards before
being thrown. His spectacular 55 yard
run against South Carolina will be re-
membered with much honor to him. He
has rounded out three years of service
on the team and has proven himself one
of the gamest Witdcats that ever wore
the Red and Black.

Samuel Robertson Brady
Center. D**
Sam has also served under the Red

and Black for three years. He is one of
the few men in the game who plays it
for fun. To give and take in a game, is
Sam's delight and he always comes out
of the game with that characteristic grin
on his face.
never has been known to fizzle a pass,

He is a sure passer and

no matter what the adverse conditions.

This ability and the moral support and

pirit he carries’ into a‘game has made
him an asset which could never be reck-

oned. During the latter part of the sea-

son he did the kicking-off and goal kick-
ing, producing class A results every time.
He made the remarkable record of play-
ing every minute of every game this
year.

Samuel Malloy Davis
Tackle. D*

“Sam” is another of those players who
seldom pulls anything spectacular, but
who is always on the alert and busies
himself with getting his own man out
of the way. He is in the game with that
old-time “stickability spirit’ and his
wonderful consistency has proven him
to be a big factor on the defensive. His
strong point is his offensive work. His
remarkable drive and ability go get his
man out of the play has often paved the
way for a substantial gain by some
backfield member. Sam has served for
two years and still has two more left
and will be one of Davidson's best out-
puts if he continues his present gait.

David Robertson LaFar
Guard. D*

“Doc,” the baby giant of the eleven, is
a tower of strength in the center of the
line. For two years he has held down
his own in this position, and still has an-
other year in which td perform. “Doc”
plays the same old steady game, never
failing to hold up the center of the line
in magnificent style. He is especially
strong on the defensive and is a stumb-
ling block to any opposing rushes. Sel-
dom do they attempt a play over LaFar,
and woe unto those who do try it. His
heavy build has made him especially
adept at the defense and he has never
failed to put up that same scrapping
game and contests every inch gained by
the opposition.

John Schneck
ad. D

“Johnie” came to us this year a new
comer, aad proceeded to win for him-
self a place at end. He romped around
at the outer point with great success,
and made Douglas an ideal running
mate. He grabbed passes out of midair
with greatest ease and was clever in his
broken field running. His strong point
was on the defensive, time after time
breaking through the opposing interfer-
ence and nailing his man. Schenck is
fast and aggressive and if he returns
next year will prove a greater asset to
the team, as he will not be thrown out
on account of S. L A. A. rulings.

Joseph Means McFadden
Fullback. D

“Rooster” is one of the best backfield
men for his weight that has ever worn
the Red and Black. His peculiar build
and unusual drive makes him a hard
man to stop when at top speed. He is
very evasive and it's a sight to see him
squirm through the smallest kind of a
hole in the line. He is fast and, although
not heavy, makes a very suitable full-
back for our combination. He did the
majority of the punting until he injured
his right ankle in the Richmond game.
His clean but impressive fighting spirit
and that never-say-die attitude have
won for him a warm place in the heart
of every Davidson supporter.

Friel Montgomery Cassell
Fullback. D*

Undoubtedly the scrappiest gridiron
warrior on Davidson elevens in years.
He plays the game to win and puts every
atom of strength, spirit and drive into
each play and is always ready for a
comeback. “Frog” has one of the most
wicked changes of pace, when he car-
ries the ball, that is known and has
gained much reputation as a broken field
runner. His side step is a ruse which
has brought grief to many a tackler
and on his wide end runs he uses this
to a big advantage. Cassell assumed part
of the punting responsibility after Mc-
Fadden’s injury and turned the trick in
good style. He has played for two years

cand still has two more seasons to win

honor for himself and his Alma Mater.

William Springs Shepherd
Halfback. D

Yes—this is the one and only “Gig,”
who so completely covered himself with
glory when he crossed Carolina's cov-
eted goal line, and brought victory to
the Wildcat den. “Gig” is another artist
in broken field running. His peculiar
stride is very deceptive and many would-
be tacklers are easily evaded. His twist
when he goes thru the line is like that
of a corkscrew and tacklers just seem to
drop off, “Gig” is not over-heavy, but
has just enough weight not to slow him
up on his wide end sweeps. He alter-
nated at punting and showed up to a
good advantage, especially in the latter
part of the season. He still has two
more years to romp around.

Norman Westbrook Shepard
Halfback. D

“Shep” was the biggest ground gainer
on the eleven this year. His terrific
speed made him such a valuable asset.
Quick as a deer to get off and increasing
his momentum as he went, enabled him
to gain much even after tackled. His
wicked use of the stiffarm brought im-
mediate sorrow to many tacklers and
on off tackle plays he found many oc-
casions to use this device. His forward
passing was superb and quite often very
freakish, as. he would sometimes run
from a passing combination for gains of
1§ yards or more. One of the most ag-
gressive men on the team this year and
with two years yet in front of him, he
will bring home the bacon more than
once,

Orin Poe
Halfback. D
A man who just naturally doubles up,
head forward, hits the line and takes
half of it with him. When he comes
into a play with a start of two yards, he
carries such momentum with him that
something has to give way. His drive
is magnificent and as graceful as could
be. He is a hard tackler and carries that
same punch with him when he goes after
aman. This is his first-year on the
team and next year should prove a bul-
wark of strength in the backfield.
Philip Osborne Bothea
Halfback. D
“P.O.” put up a splendid brand of ball
this year and whats more, it took real
old Spartan pluck to do it. He had

the misfortune to have his shoulder
bone badly injured during midseason,
but came back in two weeks for more
and put up a great game against Fur-
man. Clever running was particularly

characteristic of his style of play and,

‘on a wide end sweep he was sure to get
away for a substantial gain. Bethea
also has another year with us and will
have plenty of opportunity to represent
us on next year’s eleven.

James Spratt Moore
Quarterback. D

“Spratt” is the midget Wildcat. He is
the lightest man that has played on Da-
vidson elevens in years. With his ex-
ceptional light weight and fleetness of
foot, he proved himself to be the most
spectacular broken field runner on the
team. He sidesteps, dodges and dives
with equal accuracy and is just like an
eel on the offensive. His ability to run
back punts is absolutely uncanny. With
any start at all, he gains ground with
the greatest ease. This is his first year
on the team and with three years in
front of him, he has the most promising
career to look forward to that can be
imagined

Clias Sampson Faison
End. D

Faison is also a Freshman, who has
wonderful prospects. Coming to us un-
known, he has produced the goods in
wonderful style and has the earmarks of
a giant end. He is alert and quick to
break into the opponent's end runs. His
ability to get down under punts is un-
believable and his efficiency in tackling
make him a household of fear to the en-
emy. He is equally as effective on the
offensive and seems to grab any passes
that get anywhere near him. He has a
great future in store and will bear
watching in his next three years at Da-
vidson.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

PURPLE HURRICANE DEFEATS

(Continued from page 1)
seven point lead and never again did
they take the offensive.

The Red and Black ran wild the last
half. Many times they carried the ball
inside of Furman’'s 20-yard line. The
Red jerseyed lads gained 190 yards in
this half while the Purple gained only
19 yards. One notable fact was the total
absence of Furman passes. Not once
during the entire game did the Green-
ville lads attempt to gain by this style of
play.

Bethea was the outstanding star in the
Wildcat backfield. Time and again he
ran over Jeter, Furman’s captain, for
gains of from five to ten yards. Cassell
and McFadden also played a bangup
game. In the line Hammett and Rome-
felt played the best although the whole
line showed up well. .

Rhame was Furman’s best bet. He
carried the balt most of the time. On
their 80-yard he gained 48 yards in 12
tries. Speer also showed his worth
several times. Hammett and Lanford
were their best line men.

The game play by play follows:

First Quarter.

McManaway kicked off 50 years to
Cassell, who returned ten yards to the
jo-yard line. McFadden failed to gain.
Cassell made three through center. Cas-
sell then failed and McFadden punted
40 yards to Speer, who was downed in
his tracks. Rhame gained one yard in
two tries. Speer added eight and Waters
made first down. Speer lost and Rhame

cut-back around left-end. Time out for
Speer. Ball on Davidson's 41-yard line.
Rhame made three at right tackle and
added four around right end. Speer
made it first down with three over cen-
ter. Rhame made two. Waters made
six, but fumbled and Cassell went down
the side line to the middle of the field

made six and two at right tackle.

made one. Speer then tore off 12 on

before Speer got him. Clary for Bethea.
Shepard failed to gain and Davidson
penalized 15 yards for holding. Pass. to
Douglas incomplete, Speer broke it up.
McFadden gained one. McFadden punt-
ed 40 yards to Waters who was tackled
by Douglas without any gain. Ball on
Furman’s 19-yard line. Romefelt stop-
ped Speer. Waters made one and Mc-
Manaway punted out on Davidson's 47-
yard line. McFadden made five and
Clary added one at right end. McFad-
den lost ten on an attempted pass. Mc-
Fadden punted out of bounds on Fur-
man’s 3l-yard line. Romefelt threw
Rhame for a two-yard loss. McMana-
way made two on a lateral pass. Mc-
Manaway punted to McFadden on the
go-yard. Cassell gained five yards and
Shepherd made it first down with five
over center. Cassell made one and a
pass was incomplete. Shepherd took
five more and McFadden punted 40 yards
to Rhame, who returned to the 34-yard
line. Waters and Rhame made one.
Quarter up. Furman’s ball:on own 35-
yard line.
Second Quarter.

Bethea for Clary. Hammett threw
Speer: for four-yard loss. McManaway
punted to McFadden on Furman’s 47-
yard line. Bethea tore off six at right-
end. Pass McFadden to Douglas for
1§ yards. Bethea made one yard in two
tries. Shepherd kicked in the nose, and
Furman cheered for him as he was car-
ried from the field. Long goes in. Mc-
Fadden made four and then punted over
the goal line. Furman’s ball on 20-yard
line. Rhame made four yards in two
tries. Waters two-yard loss, but David-
son realized five yards. Rhame made 19
at tackle and two at center. Speer made
four and Rhame one, and then four
more. McManaway gained four and
Rhame added three on two line-plays.
Speer ‘took six and Rhame threw in
eight. Waters failed to gain and then
made first down. Ball on 17-yard line.
Speer made one, Rhame, two, and then
Speer four more. Speer made five yards
and first down. . Rhame made three
yards, Waters failed and Rhame went
around left end for touchdown. Speer
kicked goal. McManaway kicked off 45
yards to Cassell who returned to 33-
yard line. Pass to’ Douglass incomplete.
Bethea failed and McFadden lost’ one.
McFadden then punted to Furman’s 45-
yard line. Waters made three and the
half was up. Score: Furman 7, David-
son 0.

Third Quarter.

Cassell kicked off to Bradley on 25-
yard line. He returned to 32-yard line.
Water no gain. McManaway made one
then four and then punted to Davidson’s
ai-yard line. Cassell made one, Bethea
lost one, and Cleary made two. McFad-
den’s punt was blocked but recovered.
Furman penalized 15 for holding, putting
ball on Davidson’s 47-yard line. Bethea
Cas-
sell lost one at left end and McFadden
punted to 12-yard line where Douglas
touched the ball, Furman's ball on 20-
yard line. Waters made five, Rhame ad-
ded two and failed to gain. McMana-
way punted to McFadden on 38-yard
line. Time for McFadden. Clary lost
one and Bethea failed to gain. Pass to
Cassell who went to Furman’s 42-yard
line. Bethea hit right tackle for five
and added four, one-half at the same
place. McFadden over center for three
yards. Cleary made one, Bethea no gain
and McFadden lost two. Time for Car-
ter. Posey for Carter. Pass to Cassell
for nine yards. Ball goes over Waters
no gain and Hammett threw Rhame for
five-yard loss. McManaway punted to
McFadden on Davidson's 46-yard line.
Bethea made three, McFadden six, and
Cassell two. Bethea hit left tackle for
five and McFadden added one.

Fourth Quarter.

Carter back in the game. Bethea
