oO

THE DAVIDSONIAN, January 15, 1920.

2 ALUMNI

DAVIDSON ALUMNI OF GAS-
TON COUNTY FORM
ORGANIZATION

Students and Alumni Have Banquet
and Form Permanent Organiza-
tion in County.

PAGE ¢£

What the Alumni Can Do
to Help Davidson

RECEIVES LETTER
FROM WOODROW WILSON

First Presbyterian Church of Gas-
tonia Recipient of Beautiful Let-
ter of Appreciation From Presi-
dent Wilson as Result of Recent
Benefaction to Davidson College.

ALUMNI CHAIR $50,000

$s _ 00
ONE-HALF MILLION DOLLAR FUND FOR DAVIDSON COLLEGE

, DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

In consideration of other subscriptions for the Purpose of securing $500,000.
for Davidson College by March lst, 1920, I promise to pay to the
Trustees of Davidson College, Davidson, N.C., the sum of

Dollare

President Miller Calls On Davidson
Men for Loyalty

By R. M. Miller, Jr., President
Alumni Association.

A few days ago the alumni and
students of Davidson College in Gas-
ton county, N. C., met in the Ar-
mington Hotel, in Gastonia, and
after a delightful banquet, formed a

The bulletin of the day’s service
at the First Presbyterian Church of
Gastonia a few Sundays ago con-'
tained the following letter:

Be loyal in spirit to the college.
And by loyalty I mean 100 per cent

ermanent organization known as, to be paid as indicated below “My dear Mr. Henderlite: . .
aw A haani ioe ciation of David. | P “It will always be a matter of '¢st proof and not this 50-50 per
: ; \ re cent stuff, we now hear and read so
son College in Gaston County. Mr.'| Addrese {profound gratification to me that much about, which in reality means
S. A. Robinson was elected presi-' Name ‘the officers and people of the Gas- 199 ner cent disloyalty. To be loyal
dent, and Mr. H. A. Query, secretary | Church Indicate title---Rev. Mr. Dr. , fonia Church should have deemed we must be faithful’ in our allegi-
and treasurer. ’ ; me worthy Of the great honor they ance, honest in our convictions and

-have conferred upon me in endow-
‘ing at Davidson College a profes-

County Supt. F. P. Hall, ’87, acted. true to our principles.

as toastmaster.
speech of welcome by Mr. H. A.
Query, and a response on the part
of the Davidson student body by Mr.

Henry Wilson, Dr. J. M. McConnell, |

professor of history at Davidson,
delivered an interesting address on
the “By-Products of the War,”
more particularly as they affect edu-
cation. Following Dr. McConnell’s
address, brief talks were made by
Rev. J. H. Henderlite, pastor of the
First Presbyterian Church, and

Messrs. S. A. Robinson, F. L. Smyre,'

R. H. Ratchford, R. D. Hall, D. R.
LaFar, Jr., and others.

In addition to the above mention-
ed officers the following named vice-
presidents were elected: Messrs.
R. D. Hall, of Belmont; L. A.
Springs, of Mt. Holly; J. A. Or-
mand, of Bessemer City; Rev. J. J.
Harrell, of Cherryville Township;
J. P. Hoofman, of Dallas, and T.
Henry Wilson, of Gastonia.

One of the first efforts of this or-

Following a short:

HALF MILLION
and shall become payable as follows:

Other conditions than the above must

The amount subscribed hereon shall be applied to the

ALUMNI CHAIR
being raised in the eum of $50,000. as part of the

In four equal annual installments beginning on March lat, 1920—provided a
total of $500,000. shall be subscribed on or before that date.

DOLLAR FUND

be named here:~-

Please Gill in, sign and return to Davidson College, Davidson, N. C.

DR. CHAS. ALPHONSO SMITH.|DAVIDSON’S ALUMNI SERVICE /roadnax Glenn, |

Charles Alphonso Smith, one of
Davidson's most scholarly alumni,

RECORD A SPLENDID ONE.

The service record of the alumni

sorship to bear my name.
“Such evidence of friendship and
confidence is a great tonic to one in

‘,the midst of difficult affairs, and I

am keenly conscious of standing in
‘need of the support of thoughtful
people and of the understanding re-
gard of my fellow citizens.
“Cordially and sincerely yours,
“WOODROW WILSON.”
It will be rememberd that this con-
gregation recently raised the sum

Wilson Chair of Economics and
Political Science at Davidson.
|

ROBERT BROADNAX GLENN.

Perhaps one of the most noted of

Davidson's alumni is Robert
ex-governor of
North Carolina. LHe was born in
1854. Upon leaving Davidson he
went to the University of Virginia

‘all

ganization will be an endeavor to was born. in Greensboro, N. C., on|of Davidson cannot be beat. Of the to continue his studies, and from
7 ‘ Deve q 7 nd
May 28, 1864, and is the son of Rev.{number who have passed through there entered Pearson's Law School.

stage more college athletic contests
in Gastonia.
people of the county will patronize
baseball and football games between

the various colleges of the Carolinas, gree from Davidson College in 1884, vidson spirit all the way through is |

They believe that the J

[to many in this state.
Dr. Smith received his A.B. de-

That these men
Da-

got into the fray.
have exhibited the good old

. Henry Smith, who is well known! the walls of Old Davidson 660 strong, Lipon his graduation he went to

Danbury, N. C., where he began his
law practice.
He at once showed himself a man

and steps are to be taken to induce'and the Master’s degree in 1887. the greatest part of it. It was this of extraordinary ability and. was
Following this he took his Ph.D. at spirit hat acted as a guardian over rapidly promoted from one impor-

team managers to stage more col-
lege games in that place.

OLDEST ALUMNUS
PASSES AWAY

Prof. J. H. Hill Succumbs to Old

Age.

The college has just been sadden-
ed by the death at 87 years of one
of her oldest and most honored trus-
tess, Prof. J. Henry Hill, of States-
ville. Professor Hill graduated in
1854 at the head of his class. He
taught for some years in Mitchell
College and then took up work in
the Statesville high school, where,
for almost a generation he was the
superintendent and only man teach-
er. About 15 ycars ago he resigned
his position and ran a small fire in-
surance and real estate agency
which he continued almost up until
the time of his death.

The professor is described by one
who knew him as one of those saitft-
ly old gentlemen who never did any-
thing especially remarkable but who
spent his life in doing little kind-
nesses here and thre. He was
greatly respected and honored by
his community, being sent several
times to the legislature and being
given other public offices. He has
been for a long time senior elder in
his church, He has always warmly
supported the college, having sent
three sons and a grandson here. His
death is mourned by all.

CHARLOTTE ALUMNI
HOLD MEETING
A meeting of the alumni of David-
son residing in Charlotte was held
in the dining room of the Southern
Manufacturer’s Club, Tuesday even-
ing, January 13. The purpose of the
meeting was to get together and
complete the organization of the as-
sociation. There are severai alumni
associations in Charlotte, represent;
ing the various colleges of this and
other states. The Davidson alumni
are planning to have the best or-
ganization in Charlotte. This asso-
ciation will mean a source of
strength from which the various or-
ganizations of Davidson draw when
needing support in Charlotte—in the
way of publicity, co-operation, etc.

John’s Hopkins in 1893, and he also, them and would not let them say |
has the LL.D. and L.ILD. degrees '

from other universities, in addition
.to foreign study.

After compieting his course as a
university student Dr. Smith began
to teach, and, except for brief inter-
missions for further study, usually
abroad, he has been engaged in that

work continually. He has served as;

instructor or professor at the fol-
lowing colleges and universities:
John’s Hopkins, Louisiana State
University, University of N. C., Uni-
versity of Virginia, and the Univer-
sity of Berlin. In 1917 he was ap-
pointed head of the Department of
English at the U. S. Naval Acad-
emy at Annapolis, Md., and he is still
holding this position.

Dr. Smith is well known in the
East and South as an author and
writer as well as a distinguished
professor,and is an able contributor
to several periodicals. He is a mem-
ber of the Modern Language Asso-
ciation of America and also of the
Phi Beta Kappa Society. Davidson
takes great pride in the accomplish-
ments of this honored alumnus.

BALLENTINE-PERRY.

Of interest to their many friends
throughout the Carolinas and to Da-
vidson alumni in general is the an-
nouncement of the marriage on
Tuesday afternoon, December 30, of
Miss Lake Eva Ballentine, of Eas-
ley, S.C., and Roy Perry, ’16. The
wedding was a very quict one, only
the members of the two families
and a few intimate friends being
present. .

The bride, who is the eldest
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. C. Lee
Ballentine, has many friends over
the entire state who will be inter-:
ested in her wedding. She is a grad-:
uate of Columbia College and has
taught school near Easley for three.
years. . _

Mr. Perry is now engaged in busi- :
‘ness with the Parks-Cramer Co., of ;
Charlotte, N. C., in which city he;
and Mrs. Perry will make their
home after January 5, when they re-
‘turn from the North, where they
went on their honeymoon. |

4

die, so that Davidson has
blessed with the safe return of all

but 19 that were called upon to ren-.

der the supreme sacrifice.
A great number have

same guardian spirit manifested it-
self by not permitting them to give
up hope, so that they came back
safely. And in all lines of leader-
ship Davidson men head the list, and
are leading men on ta success. And
think not that because the war is
over that this same spirit has ceas-
ed, for everywhere it is seen to be
working and using the alumni of
Davidson to do its work; and they
are rendering equally as great serv-
ice in time of peace.

been.

suffered |
grievous wounds and were afflicted:
with that dreaded disease. But that.

tant office to another. ‘He became a
member of the legislature in 1881.
This added greatly to his reputa-
tion and he became attorney for the
Southern Railway Company and the
Western Union Telegraph Co. In
1886 he ,became state solicitor; in
1893 he was made U. S. district at-
torney. Finally, in 1905, he reached
the climax of his career when he be-
came governor of the state. Mili-

‘tary men will be interested to note:

that he was for a time major in the

‘National Guard. Fle is now living in’

‘retirement at his home in Winston-
| Salem.

' Rev. Hi S. Bedinger, ‘I, recently
returned from his chaplaincy over-
seas, is pastor of the Presbyterian
Church at Hartsville. S.C.

Davidson Alumnus, Are You
Backing Your College Paper?

E are mailing a copy of this issue to all the Alumni.
In this paper we have tried to portray the college life

and conditions at college.

We hope that you will like

this paper. There are 17 more issues to follow this spring—
issues that perhaps may be more interesting and attractive

than this one.

The South Carolina College Press Associa-

tion met at Columbia, S.C. in November, and in a session
declared The Davidsonian to be the best college paper in the
South and should be held up as an example to others. Won't
you help us live up to this reputation by sending in your

subscription to the remainder of the term.

name and address with $1.00

; Enclose your
in an envelope and mail to

The Davidsonian and your name will be entered for the re-

mainder of the term. If you

name and address—we will get the dollar later.

haven’t the dollar, send your
Help us

make The Davidsonian the BEST COLLEGE WEEKLY IN

AMERICA.

Enclosed please find One Dollar for subscription to The

Davidsonian for the remainder of this term.

Tear out and mail to The Davidsonian, Davidson, N. C.

This is the kind of loyalty that we
alumni must cherish for our alma
mater, if we would see Davidson
placed where she rightfully belongs
—at the top.

Be liberal in support of the col-
lege and its subsidiaries. Liberality
docs not mean extravagance, as
some seem to interpret it, nor does

‘it mean that we should be narrow

, Of $50,000 to endow the Woodrow :

Hee RHEHR HEHEHE HHH HK HHH HEHE HHH HE

and selfish in our views, but, to the
contrary, it carries with it always
the idea of generosity, magnanimity
and at times, self-sacrifice.

I realize that many of the alumni
of Davidson are not in a position,
financially, to contribute as largely
or as liberally as their loyalty would
dictate and yet, [ believe that it is
altogether possible for every alum-
nus, in some way or somehow to
contribute something in aid of the
college—the spirit that prompts the
giving is the spirit that will win.

Davidson, however, has among
her alumni or friends associated di-
rectly with the college, men who
could individually and without em-
harrassment, endow an alumni chair,
which would be, for all time, a liv-
ing monument to their generosity
and loyalty. Davidson needs an
alumni chair.

As at present constituted, the col-
lege is well equipped for sending out
the professional man, the minister,
the lawyer, the teacher, etc., but is
woefully deficient in the science of
present day business and how to
promote and foster our material re-
sources and develop the methods of
living well for our country, family
and individuals.

No one will question the value
and importance of a business train-
ing in connection with a profession
—the lawyer is a better lawyer, the
minister is a better minister and the
teacher is a better teacher, if a
broad, comprehensive and practical
knowledge of business is combined
with his profession.

In these days of large business af-
fairs, the average young college
graduate, going out to mect these
real and major conditions of life, is
seriously handicapped because of
the lack of this practical teaching.

(Continued on page 11)

TO THE ALUMNI WHO
WERE IN SERVICE.

The Librarian is trying to se-
cure a complete record of our
men in all the various branches
of the war. A circular letter has
been sent to cach name on our
soldier list and a large number
have responded giving all the
information wanted, Several of
these letters have been returned
unclaimed and we are assured
that there are some whose
names we have not. If you have
not already sent in the facts
connected with your enlistment,
please give by first mail the
date of entry and the date of
discharge, adding any matters
of interest that you would like
to have on file at your Alma
Mater. Make the statement a
full one.

Please do this as soon as you
read this item. To delay means.
in so many cases, that you will
forget.

Se HHH HEHE HHH EHR HEE HE

* LIBRARIAN OF’ DAVIDSON
* COLLEGE.
= * * Ed *
