10

THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 3, 1920.

INITIAL PRESENTATION
OF WILDCAT MINSTRELS

(Continued from page 1)
exclaimed, “Oh, Susie, Behave,” and gave
that well-known song in his inimitable
style.

The second act was a Musical Revue
of the first order. The “Trombonium,”
played by D. R. Freeman, G. R. Dupuy,
K B. McCutcheon, and that “sliding
tgombone Beck” started off with plenty
of pep and brought down the house in
applause.

This was followed closely by the
string octette which, under the direction
of Houston White was perhaps the great-
est musical triumph of the evening. The
octette was composed of: Violins: Cun-
ningham, Rudge, Wright, and Buchanan;
guitars: Phillips, McGeachy, Nesbit, and
Bernhardt.

To the tune of the old hoe-down of
itinerant negro fiddlers, Johnny Curry,
“Cop” Johnson, P. D. Miller, and Cly-
burn, gave the audience a bit of the
Southern Highland Fling in the cloggiest
of clog dancing.

From the role of musical director,
Houston White changed to the toreodor
of Toledo and sang La Paloma to a
guitar accompaniment. This number was
greeted with great success and was fol-
lowed by an equally well executed cor-
net solo by D. R. Freeman.

Madame X, the mysterious unknown,
ended the revue in a very artistic
Oriental dance. Her dance resembled
ciosely the Egyptian artistry of Ruth St.
Denis and touched slightly on the Rus-
sian interpretation of Turkish dancing
as appears in the Ballet Russe.

“A See-Saw Seance” was the title of
the playlet which ended the performance.
The manuscript was written by Pro-

fessor Erwin on a theme showing negro| :

mysticism and spiritualistic fear. “Tub-
by” Woolfolk, Dave Forgey, Sergeant
Cooper, and “Bill Joe” Martin proved
an excellent cast.

Too much credit cannot be given to
Professor Erwin, who so ably directed
the entire show and arranged with ar-
tistic ability the settings for each act.

Houston White is also to be com-
mended for the musical triumphs which
were under his supervision, and Al Wil-
son for his direction of the “See-Saw
Seance.”

The seating arrangements were direct-
ed by Boulware, Mahood and Nash, and
the electrical effects arranged by Ma-
hood and Nash.

The management wishes to thank the
Ladies’ Sewing Circle of Concord Street
for their work on the curtain, and the
Telephone Company for the use of their
wire. They also want to show their ap-
Preciation of Mr. Stiles in helping with
the stage decorations, and of Mr. Rogers
for his timely aid in costuming,

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

THIS YEAR’S ELEVEN

(Continued from page 1)
Virginia, where Washington and Lee
sneaked off with a 6 to 0 victory, earned
by two field goals. Then came the climax.
The Golden Tornado from Georgia Tech
blew us to picces by a 66 to o score. With
that “you may be down but never out
spirit,” the Wildcats jumped on Wake
Forest next with all four feet and ripped

away a 27 to 7 victory. With blood still |

in her eyes, the ferocious animal next
invaded the capital of Virginia, and
crushed the University of Richmond's
spider 7 to 0. On the trail for larger
game yet, the Wildcats scratched the
Citadel Bulldogs in the face, laughed
and romped off with a 27 to 13 victory.
The next week they wrung the Game-
cocks neck: from University of South
Carolina by a 27 to © score arid left
feathers all over the field. Then came
that memorable day, when the. Red and
Black machine, with every cog in per-
fect shape, knocked the Tar Baby from
over at Chapel Hill out and tore off with
a coveted 7 to o victory. Playing the
last two games under S. I. A. A. rulings
with four regulars out, P. C. and Fur-
man each got away with a 7 to 0 victory.
The season’s results:

Davidson o, N. C. State 23.
Davidson 0, Washington and Lee 6.
Davidson 0, Georgia Tech 66.
Davidson 27, Wake Forest 7. —
Davidson 7, Richmond o.
Davidson 27, Citadel 13.

Davidson 27, U. of S. Qa
Davidson 7, U. of N. C. 0,
Davidson o, P. C of S. C7.
Davidson 0, Furman 7.

A Btovew Chriatmes and Haaey New Yerr— |

FAMOUS EXPLORER

(Continued from page 1)

first time any of them had ever left their
native wilds, a feat said to have been the
tast big thing left in African exploration.
On the third, he opened up the High
Kasai, made many discoveries in botany,
ethnology, and geology, and located the
Chikapa diamond fields which are now
producing millions per year. On the
fourth, he laid the foundations of the
American Congo Company for a New
York corporation, and acted as adviser
to the International Mining and Fores-
try Company.

Mr. Verner then joined the Panama
Canal force, and studied tropical sanita-
tion with General Gorgas, besides edit-
ing a large English-Spanish newspaper,
making it a vehicle for combating the
German propaganda during the war. He
also studied scientific and business con-
ditions in Latin-America, was the first
te: advocate direct trade with Latin-
America from Southern ports, solved the
problem.of tropical cotton, and contribu-
ted many newspaper and magazine ar-
ticles on those subjects, besides taking
part in the business development of
Panama.

As an African explorer, Mr. Verner
stands first in this country in point of
seniority and achievements, being rank-
ed only by Sir Harry Johnston, the
eminent English explorer. With his ad-
ded experience in tropical America, he
ranks as an authority on tropical devol-
opment with the foremost in the world.

He has made many addresses in Amer-
ica, Europe, Africa, and Latin-America,
has a good clear voice, and has lately
been delivering a series of lectures in
the Southwest to large audiences.

Mr. Verner’s father and mother mar-

tied at Davidson College, and he him-
self married a descendant of Alexander
Craighead of Mecklenburg and a mem-
ber of the Caldwell and Dunlap families
of this section of North Carolina, and has
four children.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

BOARDING HOUSE
MANAGERS FORM
CO-OPERATIVE UNION

Believing that in union there is
Strength, in this instance financial
strength especially, the student board-
ing house managers at a meeting after
Chapel Saturday formed and adopted
certain resolutions in order that there
might be uniformity in the manner in
which the different boarding houses are
conducted. For the information of the
student body they ordered the resolu-
tions to be published as follows:

1. No student will be accepted as
boarder by another manager until his
board is paid in full at the house from
which he comes.

2. Before changing boarding houses a
student must give his manager a week’s
notice in advance that he is leaving.

3. No rebate for board will be allow-
ed a student unless he is off Hill for ten
consecutive days, and the student must
notify his manager in advance that he
expects to be absent for this length of
time.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

BAND CONCERT COMING.

The Davidson College Wildcat Band
wilt give a concert in Shearer Hall, Fri-
day night, December 3, at 7:30 o'clock.
.The students, faculty and townspeople
are cordially invited. No admission will
be charged.

THE GARBER-DAVIS
Celebrated Novelty Society Orchestras

PLAYING FOR
DANCES, COLLEGE FRATERNITIES and all SOCIAL FUNCTIONS é

JAN GARBER E. PAGE YARBROUGH
Owner and Director Business Manager

Headquarters

Selwyn Hotel, Charlotte, N. C.

Say it with Flowers | L. A. ELLIOTT

SCHOLTZ, the Florist Candies, Fruits, Etc
Charlotte, N. C. ° ;

JETTON DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

See me for your feeds

SRorty droped dn on Nour York!

Here, we ane, Gite!

Compods oncer more in the plimlr eonbre
hows with the roaung racket awd
bLanwing postow andy Amashuing ;
youd. over filieve could, be f
wrayer p.m. 9 figured “Comet Cty"fhad been Avameplanded. right upp Ror!
Ot deems fie afl Ther Yoriiors fase adopted Camels ary their oun personel
froma! Ona, (ie, Aner thin iv the original speed town, its only whet
4you Ae ‘em CULL @ package of
SP their right hand cv fussy they dig 008 Weir: ft Rand. deck
Hoy yust vit fase time qctting a Comal Lighted! Thats the quit, oft tRomotred|

Oni, Color, the Nou

Han

eypect Avhow
Pocrer !

Mortter

haw fay oww A-L

eu 4a os Jay

of our ob stampung ground — rubbing

wits one toun! whew 9 Rit Brad~

Camels in Lael Gay

pet reason why Rey do teen for

Camels For instance, Doc ‘MansRall will fet Riw cov on Camely for

quality i gautts an the orl! Bite Sa
Gemtd, tone rower tind ay

Atuyy Ao aur:

ava nuilds, ‘mellour Litt, Camels" Cu, aw for

COQ) = fe spills it Rat Camely aw

frse from

ang mplasamh gant, aftertaste or einen odd! Sonn Sayer ahi
, Mow ity Camby sronderful, Juattah Sy Domestic, and! And, ALL of fhom are niht!

And, Rete, of proog- of-Ro- puddunig~ Yow D2, ‘env Hat Missouri, faviah

ongtiing

Ow Ceqanetty am Or

ow little ofh New

amybhuing “Else!

Aufiow At Comes 48 Rot

Afour “ine Atif.
