4

The DAVIDSONIAN

Pounded by Class of '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

HH, ABERWW o.c cscs cccccecccrescccccccccccctccreseesseesenesenesceeeseeess Editor-in-Chief
$ BD. CAGSELL.......ccccccvcvcccsnccccccccccsessssseesessssessscvevccnes ing Editor
aR. UL WARE, Ir... ..ccccecncovcecscesese 3. Assignment Editor
L. B. SCHENCK....... Athletic Editor
J. C. MCCASKILL.........cccccccccsservcccccsseseserseessoseenersreessceees Alumni Editor
D M giaLmars ETT Er err rerrerrer eerie Cc Editor
HA SHILL........ Bal
T, HH. BPEINCD,.......cccccccccccccccscccccsacseeserereeeesesenscssscscese pus Editor
Le, G. CALHOUN.,...cccccccccccccccccsscccrccsessssescssesvesssessevees Y¥. M. & A. Eaitor
A. Le. WIELSON.....ccccccrcsrccccccccscccaccesstssesreresesseseessseseseesenes’

ASTON, Ir... cccccccccccccccccsccccccnesesseseeeereesenssseessecees Literary Editor
E * SWAIN. dee ecceccccccccccccersecceseseeecessceces Officla] Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB

D. L. MAHOOD
. M. MITCHELL

WwW. P. CUMMING

Additional Reporters for this issue are: King, A. D.;

Mauze, G. W.; Ormand, A. P.; Fraser,

3 Fri ; F.; White, H.; Bailey, J. C.; McGuire, E. H.; Ogden, D. H.
& Gi reatinwi. nn ererrreer ys mJ errr reriTererrirrirerey s rrr jusineses Manager
T, BH. WILGON......ccccccccccscccccccccvosccererecssereseesesssscenees Assistant Manager
L. Le, MOALIBTER........ccsccceeceees PYeTISTTeTTTITT TT rr ry .--Circulation Manager
A. M. MITCHBILL, .....ccccccccccccccccnccccccserevecsesecces .. Assistant Managers
Cu H. LONG..u. 0.2.20. o-oo w cae ene nee cen cow wwe ewe nn sewn renee ween cen enterenennecseee Assistant Manager

EDITORIAL

Welcome, Volunteers!

All the millionaires play golf. You better join the golf club and be-
gin to qualify.

We wonder if the enthusiasm of the Volunteers is all religious or
whether the announcement about the seventy young ladies has any-
thing to do with it.

If you have any spare time in the afternoons go down and take a
slant at the baseball team. They look better than ever and its going to
‘take a mighty good nine to beat them.

Now that we’ve got the half million what’s going to be done with it?

Welcome, Volunteers!
VOLUNTEER CONFERENCE.

OR a place somewhat removed from a city or any center of ac-
F tivities Davidson is unusually blessed each year with the presence

of several distinguished and instructive visitors. Seldom, however,
is the opportunity given of entertaining a large host of guests who
bring with them some of the most interesting and helpful speakers that
can be obtained anywhere. This conference which is to be held this
week-end should mean a great deal to this college and the advantages
which it offers should not be neglected.

First, it will bring us in contact with more than one hundred stu-
dents from other institutions. The impressions which these delegates
carry back with them can wield a most important influence on the gen-
eral opinion of Davidson in the eyes of its rivals. They are the men
and women who come in contact with those who are entering college
next year and are in a position to give a high recommendation to David-
son, if their personal observation can justify it. Every effort should be
made to cause their impression of the life and spirit on the campus to be
a favorable one. a oo

The second opportunity which we have is in personal inspiration
which can be received through attendance at the meetings. No effort
has been spared in getting the most capable leaders in the missionary
work of our Southern Church. The mectings, especially the evening
ones, are open to all and should contain a large representation from our
student body . . . .

The third advantage which can be derived from this gathering is
the instilling of new life into our Volunteer Band. Several years ago we
could boast of the largest student volunteers of any college our size,
in the United States. Without some fear of exaggerating, this assertion
can hardly be made at the present time. Missions and especially foreign
missions are each year becoming more important as an influence in the
world. At sach a time our band should be growing, not shrinking. It
is hoped and expected that this conference will revive our local band and
help to put it in the place it formerly occupied. ~

It is our duty to make a great thing of this conference, both for the
college and for our personal benefit. Make every delegate feel at home
and go away with the belief that Davidson is the best college in the

world next to their own Alma Mater. Without this exception, we be-
lieve it, and why shouldn't they believe it also?

" ABSENCES.

Last week there were more than two hundred absence cards sent
out. A large number of these had on them sufficient absences to put a
man liable to faculty discipline. If this indifference continues on the part
of the students there are some who will meet with more serious conse-
quences than they seem to expect.

The absence committee has been very considerate this year and has
been especially generous in regard to excuses. Instead of the apprecia-
tion which they should be accorded, the privileges have been abused to
the point where some action is necessary. Chapel absences and class
absences result more from habit than from anything else. The more
classes are cut, the stronger the impulse to cut another. The later you
sleep today, the later you will want to sleep tomorrow. If you forget
that you are allowed any class cuts and chapel cuts it will be easier to be
punctual and regular.

It is a nuisance and a source of worry to your parents to be con-
stantly annoyed by letters from the faculty. Yet, whom have you to
blame but yourself? The consequences are well’ known before your ab-
sences are accumulated. The rules of the committee are laid down and
must be observed, and the sooner this is realized the better it will be for

all concerned.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, March 11, 1920.

Open Forum

MIXED UNIFORMS.

The Davidsonian does not seem to
be able to put out an issue without
an article about the R. O. T. C. be-
ing in the Forum. All of these ar-

[ticles have, however, overlooked an

important consideration. That is the
wearing of the uniform.

The object of uniforms is unity

ter;and the assurance that all will be

supplied with the necessary equip-
ment for the military service. Ac-
cording to the law on the matter no
civilian shall wear any part of the
military equipment. Hence if a civil-
ian wears the uniform he is subject
to punishment for an offence against
the law of the land. If a soldier
wears a partial uniform he is like-
wise an offender.

While we are on duty here in the
R. O. T. C. we are soldiers; when
we are off duty we can be either sol-
diers of civilians, but we cannot be
half-breeds. We should wear either
all civilian or all military clothing.
The clothing the government lets
us use is not our property. It is
merely a tool that the government
lets us have to work with. The gov-
ernment is the boss; we are the la-
borers. If the work is to be done at
all it must be done as the boss says,
and one of the conditions of the is-
sue of clothing is that it shall be
worn in a military manner. From
this we see that when we wear a
mixed uniform we are getting some-
thing for nothing and that is dis-
honesty.

Fellows, we do not only owe this
to the government but we owe it to
the college. The inspector will be
here this week and,his investigation
will determine the place that David-
son will occupy in the standing of
the colleges. It is just as easy to
wear the whole uniform as to wear
part of it. Why not stop the half-
breeds? It is not a question as to
the keeping or the stopping the R.
O.T.C. It is a question whether we
shall live up to our obligations while
it is here. « COA,

Ade

Ms itil

é —%
OF
i A Nw!
Read the Exchanges in the “Y”
Room.

I BELIEVE IN FOREIGN MIS-
SIONS—BECAUSE

1. The Old Testament prophets
foretold the conquest of the whole
world by Christ.

2. It was the kind of work the
apostles did.

3. Every church in the world to-
day is the result of such work.

The present day opportunities
are unprecedented for the spread of
the Gospel.

5. The vast scope of the work is
worthy of the Church of Jesus
Christ.

6. All men are my brothers; and
I am every man’s trustee.

7. Hundreds of our best young
men and women are pleading the
chance to go.

8. Another century of progress
like the last and there will be wit-
nesses everywhere.

9. We have the power, the wealth
and the manhood.

10. Home and Foreign Missions
are the same work.

11. Jesus Christ explicitly com-
mands it.—Ex,

“All owe the World for Talents,
good or better;
The Greatest Genius is the Greatest
~. Debtor.” —Ex.

“It isn’t the labor we intend to do
Or the labor we've just begun,
That puts us right on the ledger
sheet,
It’s the work we've really DONE.

Our credit is built on the things we

0.
Our debt on the things we shirk.
The man who totals the biggest plus,
Is the man who completes his

work.

MERICA is fast becoming a pipe smoking country. Every
year more and more men are realizing the comfort, the satis-
faction, and the economy of the pipe. And by natural selection,
more and more men are smoking W DC Pipes.
chance. It is because WDC Pipes offer the utmost in pipe value.
Honest French briar, seasoned by our own special process make
WDC Pipes break in sweet and mellow.
self-governed body of pipe makers whose sole object is to fashion
pipes which are without peers in all the world. And it has been
accomplished. Ask any good dealer.

Good intentions do not pay the bills
It is easy enough to plan:
To WISH is the play of the office

boy,
To DO is the job of a man.”
—Selected.

“Candles do not lose any heat by
lighting other candles.”

“This is the gospel of labor,
Ring it, ye bells of the kirk
The Lord of Love came down from

above
To dwell with the men who work.”

To be alive and young is heaven
itself.

Foreign Missions may fail if we
fail in the place where God has
placed us.

We at home must see to it that
our missionaries carry a wonderful
message of Christian America.—Ex.

Missions—a synonym of the Gos-
pel.

“Thou dost not dream what forces

lie in thee.

Vast and unfathomed as the deepest
sea

Thy silent mind o’er diamond caves
may roll.

Go seek them, and let pilot will con-
trol

Those passions which thy favoring
winds may be.

No man can place a limit to thy
Strength, |

Such triumphs as no mortal ever
gained

May yet be thine if thou wilt but be-
lieve

In thy Creator and thyself. At
lengt

Some feet must tread all heights
now unattained ;

Why not thine own? Go forth,
achieve.” —Selected.

“The world stands out on either side,
No wider than the heart is wide;
Above the world is stretched the

sky,
jNo higher than the soul is high.”

ti

lt

ai

cy
i

i
i

This is not

Coupled with that is a

Wn. DEMUTH & CO... NEW YoRK

WORLD'S CARG.EST MAKER'S OF FINE PIRES

nn

a"
