»

The DAVIDSONIAN

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF 15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before
12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

ae Editor-in-Chief

won-- +e Managing Editor
-Assistant Managing Editor
waeennnnee. Assignment Editor
wn-ee. Athletic Editor
----Alumni Editor
-Exchange Editor
---Forum Editor

J. E. CASSELL_...--------------2.--------
J. M. RICHARDS.

M. R. DOUBLES...
C.J. MATTHEWS.____

. M. DUNLAP._..-__- ----Campus Editor
b. W. ROBERTS... -Y. M.C. A. Editor
H. A. HILL... nnn nnn enw nn nen e enn enn n nnn c ene Social Editor
J. M. GASTON, JR..-.--~-------------- nnn nn nn nn nn nn nnn nnn n nnn Literary Editor
R. R. McILWAINE_-__-_~------- ----- +--+ ----- +--+ Official Photographer

CLUB
McKEITHAN, J. H.
OGDEN, D. H.
ORMAND, A. C.
SUMMERS, A. C.
WOOL, J.C.

REPORTERS’

BAILEY, J. C. GAMBLE, w. A.
BITZER, R. LONG, C. G.
COOPER. W. J. MAHOOD, D. L.

MAUZE, G. W.
CUNNUNGHAM. C.E. MITCHELL, A. M.
DAVIDSON, R. F.

PHILLIPS, J. W.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

A. G. OLTMAN Business Manager

E. A. NASH
J. S. CURRY

Assistant Managers

Assistant Manager
Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

We are inclined to take an optimistic view of the N.C. State game
last Saturday, for it could have been much worse considering that our
opponents have about the best cleven in the South. Our team fought
wonderfully, so what more could we ask. |

A little humor every now and then will not hurt the best and most :
serious of us. Don’t fail to cultivate your sense of humor then, or else.
you might awake to find yourself a grouch. ‘

Our advice to those students whe find so much pleasure in shooting
firearms on the campus is that they seck another clime, if they cannot
enjoy life without this annoying practice. Their presence no doubt
would be more desirable in the land of the Bolshevists. ;

THE DAVIDSONIAN,

ain

| Open Forum |

WHAT WILL DAVIDSON DO?
Shall It Be Davidson in China?

On last Sunday the student body
had the rare privilege of hearing
about the educational needs of China
from one who knows the facts. Mr.
J. M. Wilson presented to the stu-
dent body an opportunity for prac-
tical service. He said that Hang-
chow Christian College needed three
teachers, and the question arises,
“What will Davidson do?”

Mr. Parker represents “Davidson
in Korea ;” who will represent “Da-
vidson in China?” That is, are we
men of Davidson ready to grasp
this opportunity of “sowing bounti-
fully,” that in the future our fellow-
men may “reap bountifully” of the
benefhts derived from the Christian
Davidson Spirit here on the campus ?

We have a man in Korea; are we
willing to stop there? Instead don’t
you think that we are ready to take
up this extra service by supporting
ane of our Davidson men at Hang-
chow, too? Let us think this over.
And by next vear have not only “Da-
vidson in America” and “Davidson
Korea,” but also “Davidson in
China.” “Daworo.”

TO THE CLASS OF '24.

The incoming Freshman class has
proved itself, in one respect at least,
a record-breaker, namely, ino num-
bers. However, they have started
a custom which-is casting reflection
upon themselves, and will, in time,
iv allowed to continue, injure the
student body. This delinquency is
the practice of piling out of church
on Sunday mornings through Dr.
Richards’ study and jumping out of
the windaws on the Concord avenue
side, This net only looks bad. but it
shows a lack of proper reverence
for the House of Gad, and io stu-
dent of Davidson College who calls
himself a Christian and a gentleman
should be found guilty, “The men

ably do it through thoughtlessness
or carelessness, but other people are

The new laundry has now gotten into operation, but is handicapped looking at the matter from a differ-
by lack of an experienced force. The man in charge has a green force €Mt viewpoint, and their opinions are
on his hands, and it is only to be expected that things were not run-,"0t entirely favorable.
ning as smoothly now as it will when the employees learn how tu, Men, let's destroy this reproach-
manipulate the machinery, ete. {ful custom at once. Restrain your-

From all reports the students are failing to take cognizance of this Selves for two or three minutes aft-
fact and are complaining about the manner in which their laundry is ¢? the service, and leave the church
being handled. No doubt affairs are in a kind of bungled state, al-,'7 @ manner befitting a gentleman
though it is our opinion that we would rather have our clothes misplaced @d a student of Davidson College.
on the campus than to have them stolen by the washerwomen on the Observer,
other side of the railroad as formerly. You may rest assured that the \
college is not going to allow the students to suffer any losses on its DR, CAMPBELL MORGAN
account, and everything will be done to see that efficient service is TO COME TO TRINITY
rendered at the quickest possible moment. Remember, however, that:
it will take a little time to accomplish this end, so why not co-operate London Preacher Comes to Deliver
with those in charge by being patient with them. Avera Bible Lectures.

YOUR SUPPORT IS NEEDED. | FIRST LECTURE TO BE OCT. 4

In the heart of every true Davidson student there is cherished a!
great love for his college. In the course of time. if this is what it!
should be, the natural result is that there must be an expression of
this love. Even a casual observer will readily see that it is the manifes-
tation of this affection and loyalty that gives the vigorous life and ac-
tion so characteristic of all the organizations of this campus, thereby
making them the most important factors in the splendid student life of
this institution,

To the real students of Davidson then who have the good of their
school at heart The Davidsonian is making a call for their services. Our
publication at the beginning of this session. sees plainly the need of D.1.. of London, England, who will
more and better reporters if our paper is to develop as it should, and deliver the series of lectures this
to whom else can it turn than to the men of the present student body.) year early in October so that the
The success of The Davidsonian in a large measure will depend on Members ‘of the Board of Trustees
an efficient reportorial staff, and to secure this end the zeal, ability:of the college and the alumni who
and earnestness of new men must be injected into this department of ;return to the college for Benefac-
our organization. tors’ Day exercises may hear this

In about three weeks a new Reporters’ Club is to be chosen, tie {noted divine, famous for his ser-

iwho rush out in this fashion prob-
PATIENCE, MEN, PATIENCE!

College Fortunate in Securing Serv-
ices of This Great Divine—Is
Noted for His Sermons

and Writings.

The college is particularly fortun-
ate in having been able to secure for
the next series of Avera Bible Lec-
tures the great English preacher.

the Reverend G. Campbell Morgan,

selections to be made from the men who have attained a certain cffi-
ciency in their work in covering news articles assigned them.

:mons, lectures, and writings in

How-; America as well as throughout the

ever, only the upperclassmen are chosen at this time, as the Freshmen | British Empire—The Trinity Chron-

are not eligible until next spring. In March of the coming year from this
Club is to come the new staff, and in due time the Editor-in-Chief and
Business Manager. From this it is to be seen that the Reporters’ Club
is a stepping-stone to the highest offices connected with The Davidson-
ian. In addition to this the members of the reporting department will
receive an extra subscription free of charge as well as be the recipients
of other things in recdgnition of their services. Thus though the work
is hard, yet it is not only worth while, but it offers an excellent oppor-
tunity to be of some ser‘ce to old Davidson.

t is not the desire of the Staff to have a one or two man publi-
cation, but one in which every student has a part. Each man can do
something, and the best way to do that something is to act as a re-
porter. This year the college is facing a successful session and it is im-
perative that a live paper keep it company. The Staff has set the goal,
‘The Best College Weekly in America,” but to accomplish this the co-
operation of the entire student body is needed. The call is made that
you back us to the best of your ability, and as Davidson students the
Staff is confident that the call will not be in vain.

icle.

The engagement of Orin Conway
Williamson, ’18, to Miss Lois Faires,
of Mecklenburg County, has been
announced. Both are under appoint-
ment as missionaries to Mexico.
Miss Faires will graduate this year
from the Presbyterian Hospital
School of New York, and Mr. Wil-

liamson will complete his course at |

Union Seminary next May.

“Squire” Wilson, '20, breezed up
from Gastonia for a few hours on
Friday. “Squire” is selling auto-
mobiles—or rather Chevrolets these
days.

OCTOBER 1, 1920.

LITERARY NEWS

Looking Backward

W. and L. Bests D. C.

Davidson opened its football sea-
son in Lexington, Va.. Saturday,
September 25. holding the strong
Llue and White aggregation to a
14-0 score. .

For Davidson the work of Walk-
er, Laird and Black in the backfield,
and White, Younger and Walker,
R., in the line was exceptional. The
whole team fought during the entire
period with the old-time Davidson
pep” and showed no intimation at
any time of letting up in the strug-

gle.

(Continued from page 3)
paper to the present five column ten
page edition of this year.

“Jap” Cumming unearthed some
very interesting facts about The
Magazine. Dr. J. L. Douglas foun-
ded our present magazine in 1887.
The first issues were produced four
times yearly and was under the su-
pervision of the Literary Societies.
The magazine has shown many de-
velopments and this year Davidson
shall see ‘a magazine the — size of
“Life.”

The first issue of The Davidson-
ian was critized from journalistic
point of view and then an open dis-
cussion was carried on by other
members.

The last topic was “Journalistic
History,” discussed by D. L. Ma-
hood, It was very interesting to
learn that “verbal newspapers” were
the first news mediums. Men would
sit on the street corners and tell the
news to the passers by for a small
consideration. The first newspapers
were merely matter record. There
was no hurry about news, for in-
stance the Declaration of Indepen-
dance was not published until more
than a week after the signing. The,
vast industry of news was enlarged |
upon and the propensities of Jour-
nalism were related.

After the program a very deli

ful feed was participated in.

ee

Davidson at Conference.

Twenty-seven men_ represented
Davidson at the State Student Y. M.
C. A. conference at Guilford Col-
lege. Davidson won in a basketball
game with Wake Forest. Trinity
was also defeated by a 26-12 score.
Davidson’s line-up was. as follows:
Forwards, Carson and Hoyt (cap-
tain): guards, Reese and Patton:
center, Dumas: subs, McAskill and
Somerville. T. J. Mitchell and M. S.
Kennedy won the tennis match from
Wake Forest. .

Literary Societies.

The Eumenean Society began the
year with a total membership of 84.
the Phis with 95. Of the Eus, 31
were new members and of the Phis,

ght-
41 were new members.

LITERARY SOCIETIES. TRINITY BEGINS NEW YEAR

WITH RAISING OF FLAG

It is the duty of every student en-
tering .\. and M. College to become
a member of one of the literary so-
cicties. First, it is your duty to
yourself to get that in college which
will best prepare you for your work
when you are out in the world: and
second, it is your duty to the college
to help put the work up to the top.
notch.

Every man that enters A. and M.
wants to see the best football team
that is possible for our coaches to
make. That is good, and is the
proper college spirit, but do you ever
stop to think that our own college is
judged to a certain extent by the
class of literary societies that we
have?) Every man can help to make
this the hest vear that we have ever
had not only on the athletic fields
but also in academic and literary so-
ciety work,

FRATERNITIES INITIATE
NEW MEN

700 Students Enrolled.

The 1920-21 sessionfof Trinity
College opened on lasf Wednesday
morning, September 12, with the
raising of the flag by the class of
21. The exercises were little dif-
ferent from those customarily held
at the opening of college other than
that there were a greater number
of new students present. than ever
hefore in the history of the college.
‘With fifteen rahs for ’21 the flag
‘rose to the top of the Aagpole and
was caught up by the breeze. bear-
ing to all the message that old. Trin-
ity was again ready for business ait-
er a summer of rest.—The Trinity
Chronicle. .

The many friends of Miss Gordon
Baskerville, will be interested to
know that she has completed the
training as a ¥. WL. C. A. worker,
and is now located in Greenville, S.

The following men in accordance
with the faculty regulations were
recently initiated into the follow-
ing fraternities:

Kappa Sigma—John Schenck.

Bachelor’s Club—Norman Shep-
perd, David W. Roberts. Houston
White.

Reta Theta Pi—Orin  S.
(pledged.)

The more you send to the laun-
dry the more vou lose.

ee
The Bank of Davidson

fe

Toe
£ Does fommercial Banking,
Runs a Savings Departm’t..
Has Lock Boxes for Rent P

Capt. G. T. Hearn, U.S. A. head
of the military department, was con:
fined to his room several days last
week by a severe cold.

Uy Riana

Your business is Solicited

= John L. Douglas, Pres., W. H. Thompsoo, Csh.
J. Lee Sloan, V.-Pres,

4. R. Beard, Assistant Cashler
uted MR Te NARI A aot

seer

AIT

Ns

Mrs. J. S. Worth and daughters
have left to spend the winter in
Washington.

a

DC Pipe is the biggest value that the Worlé’s

Ww
A Largest Pipe Manufacturers can put into a pipe. The
WDC is a good, satisfying smoke, and bound to break in

sweet and mellow every time.
and bowl; craftsmanship of the
we mean by biggest value.

Highest quality of bit, band
highest order—that’s what
Ask any good dealer.

We.DEMUTH 8&°CO:-NEW YoRK

WORLD'S LARGESTRMAK ER SMOFZFINE PIPES

