THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 26, 1920.

Richardson -..---- FB-.----- .- Shepherd} In no way did the show fall below the <=eteer cae
Substitutes—Presbyterian: none; Da- high standard that the other numbers

vidson: McFadden for Long, Cassell for |have set for the course.

Dantzler, Bethea for Sizer. Officials—

Referee: Perry; umpire: Van Meter;

head linesman: Major.

pD————

TYROLEAN SINGERS YODEL

JUNIORS CINCH

CHAMPIONSHIP

(Continued from page 5)

with his steady bulls-eye hits was the
main dependence of the Junior artillery.
At center he was handicapped by the
height of his opponent, but after the
ball was once in play nothing ‘could
check him long. Erwin was less spec-
tacular than usual but played am fine
game. He failed in several attempted
jong shots. But the two baskets that he
did make were beautiful shots. His
guarding was every bit as good as he
has ever done. Freeman, too, played his
usual steady game and was one of the

THE RALEIGH

Charlotte’s
Best Cafe

(Continued from page 1)
the house to forget their age. Of his
bass solos the familiar “His Big Bass
Viol,” and an original arrangement of
the ever-appealing “Old Black Joe” were
the best.

J. T. Matthews, - - Prop.
Phone 3486

221 W. Trade St.

PERFECT PRINTING DLATES

big reasons why the Fresh were held
down so low. Ormond and Price were
all over the floor. They were right in
the thick of things, breaking up passes
along with the guards, yet always in
place when the ball was sent towards
the basket.

The whole Junior team was working
together beautifully. If anything, they
were a bit better on defense than on of-
fense. For, though they often lost the
ball over the line, yet they always re-
covered quickly. The same could be
said even of the Fresh. Once, in the
second half, they shot four times in close
succession, striking the metal each time,
but the Juniors took the ball and quickly
scored. Usually though the Junior for-
wards were well covered, and the ball
rarely stayed long at either end of the
floor.

The Freshmen deserve credit for the
splendid effort they put forth, as well
as for the fact that not a single foul was
called on them. They made one substi-
tution, Palmer for Pitts, in the middle of
the second half. Line-up:

Juniors. - Fresh.

Ormond (8) -------------- McDonald (4)
Price ...-------------.-- McPherson (2)
Forwards .
Doubles (16) ~----------- McConnell (5)
Center
Eiwin (4) ------------------------ Pitts
Freeman (2) -------------- DeLorme (2)
Guards

Substitutions: Palmer for Pitts; time-
keeper: Miley; scorer: McIlwaine; ref-
eree: Schenck, J.

p————_
SCRUBBS BATTLE TO TIE

(Continued from page 1)
braced and when the following fourth
down was history the ball lacked a scant
nine inches of being back of the goal
posts. With the ball in her possession,
State attempted to punt out of danger
from behind their goal, but the ball was
accidentally blocked by one of her own
men and Sorrefls recovered for David-
son’s only touchdown. Davis failed at
goal. The Freshmen rallied somewhat
in the last period and put across two
consecutive first downs, taking the ball
to Davidson's 30-yard line, but the Scrub
line became impregnable and they lost
their chance. The second team back-
field then advanced the ball consistently
through the State defense till. they
reached their 45-yard line. There the
‘jinx of the afternoon descended upon
the hopes of the Davidson supporters.
In the last minute of play the Scrubs at-
tempted a long pass which was inter-
cepted by a State man, who sprinted the
necessary 55 yards for a touchdown,
thereby evening the score. Happily they
failed to kick goal, and when the whistle
blew thereafter it left a non-decision
conflict. The whole Scrub team put up
a good game, but the work of Davis and
Walker represented their best indivi-
dual efforts.

Both teams were the guests of the
Sand Hill Fair Association and were en-
tertained in royal fashion. The million-
aire winter resort of Pinehurst, the
Carolina Hotel, was made their abiding
place and they were given every con-
sideration. Though not winning the
game, the trip was a complete success to
all concerned. Mac Richards steered
the aggregation as manager, and John
Schenck acted in the capacity of coach.

—___-Dp—__——
P. C. SPRINGS SURPRISE

(Continued from page 1)
of Presbyterian College over their Tar
Heel rivals. Line-up:
Presbyterian (7) Position. Davidson (0)
McMillan -......--LE...----..-. Faison
D. Blakely ----.---LT---------. Hammet

Williamson... LG__...---- Romefelt
Kirven-.. .---C_..--.------- Brady
Durant RG. LaFar
Eichelberger -—---RT. Davis
Clowney -RE....-----. Douglas
G. Wilson.—_------QB Sizer

J. Wilson ——---—-LH_------------ Long
‘Sholar ~-----= RH... Dantzler

PLATEMAKERS FOR |The Macamac Company
HE DAVIDSONIAN Agents

_THE DAVIDSON AN

Waite For THis CATALOG
——"<

I FALL Winter Sports

CATALOGS NI26

GARBER-DAVIS
CLLEURATED NOVELTY SOCIETY
ORCHESTRA

PLAYING FOR

JAN ER
Owner and Director

Headquarters

‘ 4

on; db

Qh dduler Cur
ATHLETIC. OUTFITTERS
bea * whe ORF

Say it with Flowers

Charlotte, N. C.
JETTON DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

Bazan Ole, Go Cte:
Thier Comer of te ALS. anaintamd iv we ond. Bu
5 ques 3 anoudty aide open ancl ma). Blo, Jexany dont talk
Aw vnilhar—tit desi mean cia Tl that this. place, or shat,
Aw aw all das Ap, or Taso dauye ad, oe distant, ote! Ond, ofl 4ard-
quoy 800 wwike unde but it iv own fifth dtaly ow population!
Heard: o Circ sm the Adolphus Rotel say that whew Re comes off tie
west bordor he fu fey Cloae Rome to Baltimore when fer acroos Hw Kons
Stow stale! Say, Duy that jump felicen Jerortona ond EL do! Some jaunt!

Rte, eeuything grou big down fory—fusinesss am seb om othe, foarte
et! Here 3 wow ing ow Maw Sha
whew aw fine a Aippe of sin Ob every WOE one of Hose trac
Es Arles COMMeespo 1b AWW. "Hour ane yow, Lieutenant, says fe. “atoayle
ML call Fack that at Camp Riek whew J over ov fumch
of Comets for the toys, fe Continued. Reghit there a, lamol Conference, Aerie
Re, Hiv parti, coms Camel complinenty, Thaw the wnt
Tes money “Eton bay fu, "9 trour when Sm set"! Sve Amotéd
‘ Cow LISTEN, PETER!) 9 now Camely
and 9 Atnour Reur Morwellous rmild, meflour body amd. represhuing,
frowor aud, arondenful Tarkiol, aud Roweslic ' million Camely
unuldnk tine of sugtery Apste!” Ces thats Some testifying’
Betiieen syow and “me, SII be gazing at tall Buildinge) and teinge anaum
a fn faut ET cht he eat han notin
Boston's Back Bay! White ae at the some old Stand!

She

DANCES, COLLEGE FRATERNITIES and all SOCIAL FUNCTIONS

E. PAGE YARBROUGH
Business Manager

Selwyn Hotel, Charlotte, N. C.

L. A. ELLIOTT ©
SCHOLTZ, the Florist Candies, Fruits, Etc.

See me for your feeds

Dastas, Seas, Sunday.
