4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 17, 1920.

The DAVIDSONIAN

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '1
“The Livest Wire on the Hiil”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before
12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

. E. CASSELL........-~.------~2---- 22 e- oe eon ne nn eo nnn nee ne Editor-in-Chief
j it RICHARDS._...-.---~--------------~----------=-=--------- Managing Editor
A. P. ORMOND..-_......---------~---. ae Assistant Managing Editor
J “P, PRICE ____- 2-0 enn nn nnn anne ncncncncacencnencnenene ---Assignment Editor
M. R. Athletic Editor
C.J. MATTHEWS__ Alumni Editor
J. @ McCASKILL_--_- Exchange Editor

"RK, BOULWARE, JR...---------__-_--___-_--__---_----—- Forum Editor

. M. DUNLAP...........---~---1--~--------------------------------Campus Editor
b. W. ROBERTS. MC. A. Editor
H. A. HILL........----..-..-.--~---------~---------. ~--------Social Editor
J. M. GASTON, JR._-----.-...----.---. --- --..----Literary Editor
R. R. McILWAINE....--- 2.22222 oon eee Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB

BAILEY, J. C. GAMBLE, W. A. McKEITHAN, J. H.
BITZER, z LONG. C. G. OGDEN, D. H.
MAHOOD, D. L. ORMAND. A.C
COOPER, W. J. MAUZE, G. W. IAND, A. C._
CUNNUNGHAM, C. E. MITCHELL, A. M. SUMMERS, A. C.
DAVIDSON, R. F. PHILLIPS, J. W. WOOL, J. C.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

A. G. OLTMAN..-..-------------------~2-----------~----------- Business Manager
E. A. NASH } wn semecwnnnennneneenons---2------t-----.-----Assistant Managers
J. S. CURRY

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT: ; ;
C. H. LONG...__..-...-------~. 2-2-2222 enone neon see e------Circulation Manager

. [L.----------2- 2222 2--=---- 2-2 2--------------------Assistant Manager
1c wor sronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

| EDITORIAL |

A hearty welcome to both old and new men. May this year have
many blessings in store for you.

Isn’t it great to be back on the Hill with all the boys? There are
no friends like Davidson friends.

One glance at the 1920-21 Recitation Schedule will reveal the fact
that modern education becomes more complex each year.

With movies the first week of school it would seem that the Mov-
ing Picture Department of the Y.M. C. A. is moving along splendidly.
@ ;

————_
The student body extends its cordial greetings to the new members
of the Faculty: Dr. Hood, Professor Erwin, Professor Byers and Cap-

tain Hearn.

A few lights here and there on the campus would improve mat-
ters wonderfully. ’

A word of advice to the studious and non-studious: Don’t let your
studies interfere with your enjoying the Chautauqua next week.

Never worry about that curious feeling you are experiencing these
first few days, Freshmen. It will pass away soon. We have all experi-
enced those selfsame sensations.

During these days when Chapel! is entirely too crowded, why not
exempt the Seniors from these religious exercises. While they would
regret any such measures, yet they would bear the denial cheerfully
inasmuch as others would be benefited thereby.

OUR DUTY.

»
Tis opening days of the eighty-second session of our school have

just passed, but the passing of them has brought to this campus

some five hundred youths from the best families in the Southern
Presbyterian Church. Of this number three hundred return to an edu-
cational training ground that is not new to them; two hundred of them
have embarked upon the first great transitional stage in their young
lives. It is to this latter class that the eyes of our little college world
is now turned, seeing in them gréat opportunities and also responsibili-
ties that cannot be passed over lightly.

They have come to Davidson with a goodly knowledge of what they
will find. The clean fighting Red and Black teams, the strong Honor
System, the democratic spirit of our campus and above all the fine,
strong type of Christian men that seck this institution no doubt guided
them largely in their choice of our college. And to whom are they
looking to uphold these high principles and ideals? Is it to the fac-
ulty that they have directed teir gaze? Not by any means, for it is
to the upperclassmen that they have turned with the expectations of
seeing these generations-old traditions put into effect. And shall we be
false to their finest hopes? Surely it is far from the desire of a single
old student that our younger brothers should be disappointed in the
slightest measure in the old college that is so dear to every one of us.
It is in this connection then that we would urge that each upperclass-
man keep ever before him the fact that upon him is resting the respon-
sibility of piloting the-footsteps of the Freshmen either for better or
worse. Considering this, therefore, let every dld man set for himself
‘the high resolve that for this session at least he will think clean, talk
‘clean and live clean that he may not be guilty of lowering the high stan
‘dards of Davidson College.

uests for information concerning
the R. O. T. C. Advanced Course—
entrance requirements, work, bene-
fits, and the like. The purpose of | Roo;
this article is to state these things
in a general way, and as briefly as
possible. Further information is
readily available at headquarters.

Any one who has been in the mili-
tary department here since the first
ot the ¢
the Basic Course last spring, and is
recommended by the P. M. S. and
T. and the President of the College,
is eligible. Those men who can show
equivalent work at other colleges
come in the same class. Just what
credit can be given for past mili-
tary experience will be gladly con-
sidered by
your record of service seems to tally
with that above, or if you aren't
quite sure, and want to “re-up,”
plant your case with Captain Hearn,
and he will treat you right on it.

Course, you have just to sign an
agreement with Uncle Sam to stick
it out during the remainder of your
time in colle

dismissed by the proper authority.
That means one year for Seniors and
two for Juniors. Further, you agree
to attend one summer camp, and
that is the Advanced Course, for six
weeks. This camp will regularly be
attended between the Junior and Se-
nior years, but may be left until
after graduation. In the latter case
the college will hold up your diploma
till after the camp.

During the entire time you are in
the Advanced Course you will re-
ceive, in addition to alt
ing, equipment, and training, pay at
the rate of 53 cents a day through-
out the year, and payable quarterly.| «<1 visited a fortune teller this
During the time you are actually in
camp you will not receive this pay, about my husband.’
which is commutation of rations, “The » aid smiled.

(Continued on page 10)

lil

said, ‘I could have told madame
more than the fortune teller could.’ ”

Pervaded with an individualite so

10. SENIORS, LOOK! ty lor a la mode, they desire to be tres
y ¢
Soe? ho. intime with us_always. ne est-ce.
; . Vestvce
There have been quite a few re- 7 mp ¥ . pas, Madame, Mademoiselle (o)

I'd like to know

: | Where mosquitoes go .

Read the exchanges in the “Y"|) wren the wintry breezes blow.
m. What do they wear

For underwear

From among the burlesque nurs-| When they’re under where
ery rhymes on prohibition in the; | don't know.

“Scandals of 1920,” this one was} Do the young humdingers
snatched: — Sharpen up their stingers
Lickery, Lickery, Doc! In a warmer clime?

The patients line down the block!} Where do mosquitoes go

Having fits and conniptions, I'd like to know

‘They yell for prescriptions : In the winter time?

Licker me, Licker me, Doc! (All poetic answers of any merit
— to this lyric from a current “Follies”

An English laundry has employed |song will be reprinted in this col-
a jazz orchestra to play during|umn).
working hours, in the belief that it
increases the efficiency of the em-
ployees.

Judging from the appearance of
our shirts and clothes on recent re-
turns from our laundry, “raggin’ the
old clothes” has been in practice
here for some time.

—Kansas City (Mo.) Star.

A. T. C., and has completed

Now It Can Be Told.

In an Irish law case of a domestic
riot involving much injury to per-
son and pruperty, a witness in the
course of a vivid narrative swore as
follows: .

“He says to me, ‘Is that . your
father?’ And d says to him, ‘It is
. me father,’ and he says, ‘It is wel

aq, The Respect for Riches. you told me, for I thought it was an

It was so dark ahead of me that} ould gorilly,’ and then the fight be-
I could barely see him. Presently gan, me Lord.”—Nineteenth Cen-
he slipped and fell on his hip.” tury Review.

“If it was so dark as you say, how . °
do you know he fell on his hip?”

“f heard the tinkle of broken

glass.”—Judge.

Captain Hearn. So, if

to enter the Advanced

ge, unless excused or

Kernel Cootie—Here comes the
major from Kentucky. Wonder how
he feels after the celebration last
. . night.

“Frénch maids are very capable,” Majah—Good mawning, Kunnel,
said Lady Duff-Gordon at a tea re-|how ah you all
cently in Los Angeles. “Sometimes! Kernel (musing)—You all? Gosh?
they pre almost too capable. He’s still seein’ double.

“I heard the other day of a youne —Chi ‘
woman whose French anaid was all Chicago (IIl.) Tribune.
that the heart could desire. As she
was putting a lovely Marcel wave
in her mistress’ hair one afternoon
the mistress said:

your cloth- The Lost Fairy.

“I was in a show one time.”

“What part did you play?”

“ played the part of a fairy.”

“What! You a fairy! What did
you have to do?”

“Carry eighteen people across the
river.”—Frank De Voe.

morning, Yvonne, and asked her

“If madame had asked me,’ she

‘Hove te

MERICA is fast becoming a pipe smoking country. Every
year more and more men are realizing the comfort, the satis-
faction, and the economy of the pipe. And by natural selection,
more and more men are smoking WDC Pipes. This is not
chance. It is because WD C Pipes offer the utmost in pipe value.
Honest French briar, seasoned by our own special process make
WDC Pipes break in sweet and mellow. Coupled with that is a
self-governed body of pipe makers whose sole object is to fashion
Pipes which are without peers in all the world. And it has been
accomplished. Ask any good dealer.

Wm. DEMUTH & CO.. NEW YoRK

WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PLRES

PTE LK AT
