thanks be joined in unison on this Thanksgiving Day of 1

4

The DAVIDSONIAN

OUNDED BY CLASS OF “1
Fhe Livest Wire on the Hui

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
————————
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
1o Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

DS ran ae aT ae
i Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before
All Articles tony. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

OOOO

SSE vornesacnnneeewennnncecnenecncenceececs Editor-in-Chief

}. i 1 Sa Pee Managing Editor
‘. P. eeeeeeecnceecee--none-eo-n-----Assistant Managing Editor

MPS RM OND -wnnnnn- noma peecewnenewwawenn-scceee== aoe ASSi nment Editor
1. R. DOUBLES. =. weeeeececceweeeceeeee---—------Athletic itor

ME OU TTHEN awonnan weccecers aoe. Alumni Editor
J. [o McCASKILL...--------------------------~-----~----------- Exchange Editor
J. R. BOULWARE..-----------n-n0nnne cnnnneennnnnnnannenee==o=--2Forum Editor
J. M. DUNLAP. ___._------ 2222 nnnnnnnnnnnnnn nano ween nnn --- ann an= Campus Editor
D. W. ROBERTS. ~~~ 222-—----- nanan ann nnnnnnanennna—nnnnnne Ys M,C A. Editor
H. A. HILL. __-.-. noc ona oeneemeenee nen nnnnnmenennne-nnncenenenne Social Editor
J. M. GASTON, JR.---- ae ~=__._.._Literary Editor
R. R. McILWAINE-_.---------------------------~. Official Photographer

CLUB
McKEITHAN, J. H.

REPORTERS’

BAILEY, J. C. GAMBLE, W. A.
BITZER, x G, C. G OGDEN, D H.

COOPER, W. J. D.L.- . ORMAND, A. C.

CUNNUNGHAM, C. E. ° SUMMERS, A. C.

MITCHELL, A, M
DAVIDSON, R. F. PHILLIPS, J. W.. WOOL, J. C.

. BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
C. J. MATTHEWS...-.---.------------ + ---2----2--2 nono

E. A. NASH
J. S. CURRY
CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT: . . .
C. H. LONG..__...-----.-. ewennceue-oo----------4--Circulation Manager
J. C. WOOL.._.-.-~.---------------- 222 -eonn--on nee en nnnn=--ee Assistant Manager
Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

Do not be one of those “grouches” who are always thinking that
things here on the campus are not being run on the level. Give the oth-
er fellow credit for being as honest as yourself, and also that he has
the interest and welfare of his college at heart just as much as you.
D———_

The game last week was a tough pill to swallow, but the Fates de-
creed that for once the Wildcats should be as tame as kittens. Our
only regret is that the best team did not win. Perhaps to be good
sports we should say the best team did win, but as we are the
TRUTHFUL followers of Calvin we must speak the truth.
D———_

The new laundry must have entered some kind of labor union as
their door sign reads open only for two hours on Saturday.

—___ p= —__—_
We wonder if the White Studio saleslady was a relative of Jesse

James, the famous hold-up man. Judging by the cost of the pictures
there must have been some connection.

p——__—_

Never mind last week’s defeat, Wildcats. What we want is Fur-
man, and we are counting on you.

LONG,
MAHOOD,

Business Manager

nna. secnnnnncccucecc--ooseAssistant Managers

pD——__—

Only a month until Christmas, but in that time -we can either make
or mar our individual record for the whole term. Which shall it be?

p——___
ALL OUT FOR THE BIG SHOW!

ATURDAY night will mark the beginning of a new custom at Da-
S vidson College we hope when the dark-faced comedians of home

training will make their initial appearance behind the footlights.
That the students taking part in this show ahd the director behind them
should be backed by our attendance is a foregone conclusion. It only
remains to be seen whether the student body is appreciative of what
they are trying to do. To be sure no one predicts that our novices are
to be classed with the Al. G. Fields Celebrities, but we are willing to
prophesy that they have a treat in store for us. It is up to the students
to back this minstrel by being present as our part in putting it across.
Get your ticket and come in the spirit, not to criticise, but to applaud.
To make Senior Week a suitable substitute for Senior Speaking, it is
necessary that every effort be made to see that nothing 1s left undone
in making this show a great success.

LEST WE FORGET.

The day that our paper comes from the press this week is a day that
is pre-eminently American. It is the time long since made the annual
day for a truly thankful people to render up their heartfelt thanks to
the generous Provider of this great universe. Sometimes it would
seem that this great nation of ours, though blessed in so many ways
with all the bountiful gifts of nature, is prone to put aside the real
meaning of our national Thanksgiving Day, and turn it simply into a
day of recreation, without much thought as to the more serious aspect
of the occasion. This is a turning aside from the real Purpose and mo-
tive with which our forefathers’ imbued this time, and for this reason
we would urge upon the students of our college that they do not let
Thanksgiving pass without at least showing in some manner that they
are truly appreciative of their many blessings. No doubt the chronic
pessimist cam find numerous reasons for complaint, but with all the de-

ects that may exist to mar the Utopian welfare that some desire, we
firmly believe that this year especially we college men should be extre
mely thankful, for never before was the college student enjoying such
privileges, nor did the future ever appear brighter for the educated man

of a clear, world-wide vision. For this then, men, if nothing else, let our

THE DAVIDSONIAN,

| Open Forum

EXAMS AFTER CHRISTMAS.

Progressive Spirit Shown.

Gone are “Ye good old days” when we

-‘lhad no “prep school absence regula-

tions.” Gone are the days when a man
could be off the hill as often as he pleas-
ed on Sundays provided he had his ex-
cuse from home. But our exams that
come before Christmas are still with us,
with their results to haunt us when we
ought to be enjoying the holidays. Fel-
lowg, the present dates for fall exams
are out of date and very uncomfortable
to us in that we must explain low marks
in person and this is rather uncomfort-
able, at least more so than doing the job
by correspondence. If we could have
exams after Christmas, we could tackle
them with our minds clear and fresh,
and stand a far better chance of passing
them. But as we are situated now, we
grind away until about the middle of
December and then expect to double our
speed and pass off our exams with worn-
out mental machinery. The unfairness
of the present system appeals to most
of us, for some men get froth five to
seven days more for holidays than oth-
ers who certainly worked as hard and
deserve as much holiday as they. Fel-
lows, if such colleges as Agnes Scott,
State Universities, etc, do this with
good results, why can’t Davidson try
the same plan? Let us hear a little dis-
cussion from any opposition there may
be. But if there is no opposition among
the students, I think we should start a
petition to the “powers that be” right
away so that we can have this privilege
granted this year, if possible.
Esse Quam Videri.
Dp———__

WHAT'S MISSED IN A COLLEGE

Writing on the subject of “What a
Man Loses in Going to College,” Mr. E.
Davenport, in a recent number of the
Saturday Evening Post, has some most
illuminating things to say which the
young undergraduate may well take to
heart. Mr. Davenport does not gainsay
the value of a college education. He ad-
mits, and urges its benefits. But, dis-
missing them as altogether obvious, he
does point out that “this enterprise, like
most adventures, is not wholly to the
good, and unsuspected losses turn up
even at unexpected points.”

It is gratifying to find that Mr. Daven-
port does not even refer in his article to
the temptations besetting college youths.
Doubtless he considers them, and right-
fully so, as no more confined to the
Sophomore than to the boy who goes to
bookkeeping after high school. The
Principal loss in going to college to the
young man, he states, is the loss of four
years from the world of workaday, four
years which leaves him so frequently a
product who as the business man sums
it up in a phrase, “will be all right after
we get some sense knocked into him.”

Why is it necessary to “knock some
sense” into the college graduate? Why
is it, in other words, that so many of our
colleges produce young men so unfamil-
iar with the world they are to live in,
work in, fail or succeed in, that for a
time at least their college training ap-
pears utterly valueless, and they must
“begin at the bottom” before they can
hope even to approximate thé - place
which some comrade of high school, let
us say, won two or three years ago, not
long after his entry into the business
world?

The blame Mr. Davenport places on
the college student himself, and, after a
long exposition, which must be read in
order to be thoroughly appreciated, of
the environment and conditions of stu-
dent life, he draws a bill of particulars
against the undergraduate somewhat as
follows:

First, his indifference to everything
outside his own personal affairs and the
activities of his own college campus;
his refusal to attend public lectures; his
ignoring of the daily newspaper except
for the sporting page, and whatever lit-
erature is not prescribed in the curri-
culum; in short, his absorption in the
temporary world of college to the well
nigh complete exclusion of the real
world he must shortly enter.

Second, his vanity, which inspires him
to affect peculiarities of dress and man-
ner in an unconscious desire to be seen
and heard, quite the opposite of the
average successful man of the world
who moves about his business inconspic-
uously.

Library.

NOVEMBER 26, 1920.

Third, his egotism, outgrowth of the
fact that he has a fairly good stock of
information on some subjects, knows
nothing about others, but is absolutely
convinced that his fund of information
and ideas is worth all of that experience
he has never had.

Fourth, his lust for argument, a fruit-
less “breaking out” of his store of in-
formation which he mistakes for judg-
ment ysomething he has not in the least.

Fifth, his overuse of slang, which, ac-
cording to Mr. Davenport, in the case
of the student is generally a substitute
for thinking. “The proposition to bet
one’s life or his neck or his boots or
some other valuable portion of his an-
atomy or personal property may be
startling at the first utterance, but re-
peated two or three times a minute, it
soon become stale,” remarks Mr. Daven-
port. “Not only that, but it kills con-
versation and, what is worse, it throttles
thinking.”

Now it may be a fact that there are
several thousand college students in
America who will condemn Mr. Daven-
port outright as a demagogic ass, and
who, by argument or slang, will prove
he is an ass to their own entire satisfac-
tion. Doubtless, too, there are hundreds
of college students who, struggling for
an education against many handicaps, do
not come within the category laid down
by Mr. Davenport. However that may
be, they may still give Mr. Davenport
the courtesy of a hearing on the reme-
dies he proposes.

These are two in number—first, a
frank, outspoken attitude toward the un-
dergraduate, “to the end that he dis-
cover antidoes for his limitations, or at
least ameliorate their influence by such
healthy understanding of the situation
as will lead him, while yet in college, to
pay some decent attention to the world
he is preparing to enter—to its litera-
ture, to its thinkers and to its prob-
lems ;” the second, to give the young
man a full year of employment between
high school and college or between the
Freshman and Sophomore years.

One doubts if the second remedy can
be applied with any degree of practi-
cability. As for the first, it is up to the
college man himself to adopt it, and one
has enough confidence in him to believe
that he will take Mr. Davenport's views,
good-humored but decidedly sincere, in
the spirit in which they are proffered.
After all, it is the college man himself
who stands to gain or lose in this mat-
ter, and some thought paid to it now is
bound to benefit him immeasurably on
that day when he leaves his alma mater
to make or break himself in the world
outside —Atlanta Journal.

The article, “What a Man Loses in
Going to College” can be found in the

XXX.
——___)D-—_____—.

A MATTER OF HONOR.

In time past the point system has
worked at Davidson to effect an even
distribution of honors among the stu-
dents. There are always outstanding
students in a student body and they
win more honors than others, but it has
been agreed upon in the past that a
Davidson student should not hold more
than ten (10) points at any one time. In
this system a man is on his honor not
to take more offices than will give him
the limit in points.

There are students in the college at
present who hold more than 10 points,
and it seems that it should still be a
question of honor. There are cases

Read the exchanges in the “Y”
Room.

Editor’s Note—This week finds David-
son in the midst of her annual fall fes-
tivities, not the hated and dreaded Se-
nior Speaking of old, but something new
under the sun—The Wildcat Minstrel.
Fire, as students have come to call that
scarce article known as the fair sex,
will be in abundance on the campus,
and it behooves every son of old David-
son to be on his guard against the vamp-
ish wiles so often displayed by these
beautiful creatures. With this end in
view we are giving some of the experi-
ences of others as found in our ex-
changes. “A word to the wise is suffi-
cient.”

Camouflage.
Little side-long glances,
Little winks so quaint,
Makes you thing it’s love
‘When it really ain't.
—The Vanderbilt Hustler.

NOBODY sees
A big hole
IN a little
GIRL’S stocking,
BUT a little
HOLE in a big
GIRL’S stocking
WILL start a
PARADE
—Red and Black, of Ga.

Batson—“My girl has the prettiest lips
I ever saw.”
Ezell—“I'll put mine against ’em.”

Second Thought.

I see her on the beach,
Her beauty my eyesight dims.
She surely is a peach—
She has such pretty—arms.
—Widow.

Why Not?

“You'd better lengthen those skirts,
Marie.”

“Uh?”

“Gentlemen are apt to mistake you
for a little girl and try to take you on
their laps.”

“Well?” —Judge.

Gloaming—cosy parlor davenport—
semi-indignant feminine voice: Now,
Ray, you quit!

Ray (magnificently)—There are no
quitters at Richmond.

Foolish.
Excited Co-Ed—Oh, heavens! I swal-
lowed a pin! What shall I do?
Heartless One—Well, don't make all
that fuss over a pin. Here’s another
one—Penn. State Froth.

Gd

where students have held as high as 13
points during the present college term.
Honor is not dead at Davidson, and we
think that some gentlemen should go
ever their records and possibly make
some changes. (Signed) X. Y. Z.

PIPE’S the thing with men. Under the spell of

WDC Pipes men relax, fagged

brains are relieved.

The specially seasoned genuine French ‘briar breaks in sweet

and mellow.

Te will not crack or bum through. The

WDC Triangle on the bowl is your guarantee. Ask any

good dealer.

Wea. DEMUTH & CO.. NEW voRK

WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES

