JUNIOR SPEAKING.

(Continued from page 1)
with two one-act plays presented at
Shearer Hali on the evening of March
g. The two plays were: “The Lost Silk
Hat,” by Lord Dunsay and “The First
Shop,” by Winifred Hawkbridge.

The first play, while effectively pre-
sented was marred by the constant ar-
rival of late comers. The scene of this
play was laid in the street in front of a
London residence where the caller was
beseeching, indiscriminatedly, each pas-
serby, to go into the house and bring
him his silk hat which he had unfortu-
nately left within. The Laborer and
the Clerk, passing in quick succession,
refused him aid in the matter. Then the
Poet came on the scene. He, too, was
requested to obtain the desired article
but refused also. His mind then seemed
to wander slightly. The caller went in
to get his hat and the rest of the cast
appeared. The Policeman commented on
the apparent mindlessness of the Poet
but the Laborer says “you should have
seen the other one.”

The acting of Fred Thompson as the
Caller was the feature of this play, but
the rest of the cast. supported him in a
very interesting manner.

The Cast:

The Caller—F. N. Thompson.

The Laborer—J. H. McKeithen.

The Clerk—H. K. Russell.

The Poet—J, M. Gaston.

The Policeman—W. J. Cooper.

The second play, The Florist Shop
was a tremendous success. The action
took place within the limit of Slovsky’s
Florist Shop. The story centered
around the engagement of Mr. Jackson
to Miss Wells. Their troth had been
plighted for more than 15 years and
showed no signs of coming to a joyous
completion.

Maude, the clerk at Slovsky’s, when
looking over the books, noticed that
Miss Wella had-sent Mr. Jackson an
Easter Lilly, every year for the last 15
years. Her sympathy is aroused and
she sends Miss Wells anonymously an
expensive corsage of orchids. Miss
Wells inquires as to the sender and
Maude describes a romantically perfect
man.

When Slovsky discivers the expense
of Maude’s sympathy he exclaims
“Beesness is beesness and seempathy is
all right but you got enough for a whole
wholesale house; you is fired, a week
ago already.” However, he had scarcely
finished speaking when Mr. Jackson and
Miss Wells enter. Having been awaken-
ed he demands that she throw away the
corsage of orchids and he buys her some
violets. Then they set the date for the
wedding. Slovsky promptly reinstates
Maude and realizes the value of her
“seempathy” in the florist business.

Al Wilson, playing the part of Slo-
vsky, did some very effective character
acting while the efforts of Dave Forgey,
an Miss Wells, were a main factor in the
success of the play. Beaver’s work as
Mr. Jackson, was very effective and the
difficult and important role of Maude
was played by “Tubby” Woolfork to per-
fection. Bob Gordon, in holding down
the part of Harry the office boy abiy
demonstrated his dramatic ability ‘in
taking the part at a few hours notice.

Altogether the plays were a tremen-
dous success and were a credit both to
the casts and to Professor Erwin, the
director.

JUNIOR RECEPTION.

After the entertainment given by the
Dramatic Club Saturday evening, the
members of the Junior class were hosts
at an informal reception given at the
gymnasium for the faculty, the student
body, and their lady visitors.

Everyone was in a happy mood and
ready for a good time. The doors open-
ed promptly at 10 o'clock and the gym
floor was soon covered with couples. In
each corner of the room stood a refresh-
ment stand, where delicious punch and
cakes were served.

The decorations were beautiful. A
large post covered with purple and gold
crepe paper stood in the middle of the
room and seats for the band were
grouped around it. From this central
pole long streamers of purple and gold
Paper extended in every direction giv-
ing a maypole effect. On the wall op-
posite the numerals of ‘22 stood out
Prominently in their class colors. All
around the walls of the buildnig were
| hung numbers of college pennants and
i emblems.

Throughout the reception’ the band
|played in soft tones and added a large
|measure to the pleasure of those pres-
ia The guests were coming and go-
ing until almost 12 o'clock. Everyone

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 11, 1921.

present had a splendid time and the en-
tertainment was declured a great suc-
cess.

Much credit and many thanks are due
to those of the class of '22 who labored
for the success of this and the other en-
tertainments which they have given on
this occasion. They have set a pre-
cedent which other classes will find dif-
ficulty in maintaining.

BAND CONCERT SUNDAY AFTER-
NOON.

One of the welcomed invocations in-
troduced for Junior Speaking was the
band concert given on the campus last
Sunday. afternoon. Promptly at 4:30
o'clock, Band Leader Fréeman gathered
his company of music makers about him
on the grass in front of south wing
Chambers. A well arranged program
was presented to a large but scattered
audience. A good percentage of the
student body was present, with guests,
and a number of the townspeople.

A concert of this nature fills a need
which has been felt for some time at
Davidson; the program consisted of
sacred pieces and several classical selec-
tions, and was very appropriate to the
occasion. The student body as a whole
and the Junior class in particular wish
to take advantage of this opportunity to
assure the members of the band of the
Sincere appreciation of their earnest
efforts to make the accasion a most en-
joyable one.

VISITORS PRESENT.

More young ladies were present at
the speaking than at any other event in
the history of the college. The follow-
ing is the list of the 134 who attended
the exercises as the guests of the Junior
class:

Misses Dorothy Patterson, Charlotte,
N. C.; Bennie McColl, Charlotte, N. C.;

:

\

Camels ring true!

F : \

Louise Jennings, Charlotte, N. C.; Evelyn
Sadler, Charlotte, N. C.; Madge Free-
man, Charlotte, N. C.; Leda Williamson,
Charlotte, N. C.; Ruth Morrison, Char-
lotte, N. C.; Lorene Brown, Charlotte,
Minnie Blair Porter, Charlotte, N. C;
Sarah Adelaide Mayer, Charlotte, N. C.;
Virginia Atkins, Charlotte, N. C.; Eliza-
beth Fore, Charlotte, N. C.; Leonora
Henderson, Charlotte, N. C.; Willie
Blakeney, Charlotte, N. C.; Frances Ray-
mond, Charlotte, N. C.; Aileen Johnson,
Charlotte, N. C.; Laura Devereux, Char-
lotte, N. C.; Aline Hargett, Charlotte,
N. C.; Helen Foyle, Charlotte, N. C.
Misses Anne Fraley, Statesville, N. C.;
Margaret Deal, Statesville, N. C.; Lelia
Kistlen, Statesville, N. C.; Jonsie Deal,
Statesville, N. C.; Martha Jameson,
Charlotte, N. C.; Ellen Victor, Charlotte,
N. C.; Virginia Loving, Charlotte, N. C.;
Alice Buchanan, Charlotte, N. C.; Mary
Bell -Hering, Huntersville, N. C.; Lila
Walker, Convérse College, Spartanburg,
S. C.; Victoria Earle, Converse Cdllege,
Spartanburg, S. C.; Elizabeth Brown,
Converse College, Spartanburg, S. C.;
Julia Schoepf, Ashevilie, N. C.; Mary
Ansley, Statesville, N. C.; Margaret An-
derson, Charlotte, N. C.; Cordelia Hen-
derson, Charlotte, N. C.; Dorothy Pow-
ell, Charlotte, N. C.; Grace Shepard,
Wilmington, N. C.; Opal Cole, Meridian,
Miss.; Mary Howell, Belmont, N. C.;
Elizabeth Dendy, Belmont, N. C.; Irene
Shelton, Statesville, N. C.; Margaret
Harleson, Charlotte, N. C.; Frances Hill,
Red Springs, N. C.; Martha Gibbs, Dav-

idson, N. C.; Gladys Potts, Davidson, N.|

C.; Priscilla Hunt, Davidson, N. C;
Sarah Lingle, Davidson, N. C.; Mr. and
Mrs. A. T. Cashon, Gastonia, N. C.
Misses Erlene Johnston, Chester, S. C.;
Virginia Pullen, Roland, N. C.; Mary
Steele, Queen's College, Charlotte, N. C.;

Lorraine Burgess, Mount Airy, N. C.;
Katherine Hopper, Charlotte, N. C.;
Margaret Wooten, Charlotte, N. C.; Liz-
zie Young, Davidson, N. C.; Mrs. W. C.
Houston, Concord, N. C. ‘
Misses Catherine Morgan, Columbia,
S. C.; Frances McGuire, Asheville, N. C.;
Eunice Blue, Raeford, N. C.; Rosalie
Litch, Roland, N. C.; Sidney Caldwell,
Charlotte, N. C.; Martha Smith, Char-
lotte, N. C.; Catherine Long, Charlotte,
N. C.; Margaret McCaskill, De Funiak
Springs, Fla. Mrs. King, Columbia, S.
C.; Mrs. McGuire, Asheville, N. C.
Misses Mary Hamilton, Statesville, N.
C.; Bessie Smith, Statesville, N. C.; Lula
May Smith, Statesville, N. C.; Agnes
Moore, Statesville, N. C.; Mary Lee
White, Mooresville, N. C.; Hazel Hous-
ton, Mooresville, N. C.; Pearl Archie,
Mooresville, N. C.; Margaret McAlpine,
Clarksville, Ga.; Willene Asbury, Clarks-
ville, Ga.; Ella Sherard, Ninety-Six, S.
C.; Julia Hunter, Blenheim, S. C.; Idelle
Townsend, Harrisburg, N. C.; Eva Du-
pvy, Mary Baldwin Seminary, Staunton,
Va.; Susie Renick, Calloway, Va.; Eva
Hickson, Asheville, N. C.; Lucy Carter,
Greensboro, N. C.; Eliza Moore, Salem
College, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Lucy
McGukin, La Grange, Ga.; Mildred John-
son, Hartwell, Ga.; Sarah Hamilton, Da-
vidson, N. C.; Mildred Hobbs, Davidson,
N C.; Margaret Adams, Davidson, N.
Cc. Mrs. R. E. McGukin, Hartwell, Ga.;
Mrs. R. C. Mayer, Charlotte, N. C.
Misses Hilda Sheets, Lexington, N. C.;
Mildred Walser, Lexington, N. C.; Julia
Young, Asheville, N. C.; Tatt Haskill,
Charleston, S. C.; Baker Haskill,
Charleston, S. C.; Lilian Floyd, Char-
Ictte, N. C.; Laura Tillett, Charlotte,
N. C.; Fannie Furlow, Chariotte, N. C.;
Frances Holiday, Charlotte, N. C.; Au-
gusta Williams, Charlotte, N. C.; Neal

a - add
o !
me

.

OU get to smoking Camels because you
appreciate their fine, refreshing flavor!

Reynolds, Converse College, Spartan-
burg, S. C.; Eloise Martin, Converse Col-
lege, Spartanburg, S. C.; Bessie - Irvin,
Converse College, Spartanburg, S. C.;
Margaret Hashigan, Salem College, Win-
ston-Salem, N. C.; Maude May Jesse,
Brenau College, Gainesville, Ba.; Emma
Floyd, Brenau College, Gainesville, Ga.;
Margaret Overton, Salisbury, N. C.; Lula
Stockard, Raleigh, N. C.; Sarah Irvin,
Reidsville, N. C.; Mary O'Neal, Rock
Hill, S. C_. Mildred’ Barbour, Charlotte,
N. C.; Edith Gilchrist, Charlotte, N. C.;
Eiltlen Johnson, Charlotte, N. C.; Henry
Betk, Charlotte, N. C.; Gladys Burton,
Reidsville, N. C.; Elizabeth Clary,
Greensboro, N. C.; Katherine Arbogast,
Monroe, N. C.; Lelia Coxe, Birmingham,
Ala.; Juanita Sprinkle, Reidsville, N. C.;
Carrie Floyd, Knoxville, Tenn.; Helen
Everett, Knoxville, Tenn.; Bernice Zeig-
ler, Orangeburg, S. C. Mrs. Heath Nis-
bet, Charlotte, N. C.

Misses Mary Parks Grey, Davidson, N:
C.; Nancy Grey, Davidson, N. C.; Delle
Cross, Queens College, Charlotte, N. C.;
Louise Gibbon, Charlotte, N. C.; Martha
Lee, Charlotte, N. C.; Lucy Carson, Char-
lotte, N. C.; Mary Keesler, Charlotte, N.
C.; Lois Walker, Charlotte, N. C.; Mary
Bradham, Salem College, Winston-
Salem, N. C.; Elizabeth Armstrong,
Salem College, Winston-Salem, N. C.;
Hellie Bethea, Salemn College, Winston-
Saiemn, N. C.; Fay Roberts, Salem Col-
lege, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Evelyn Con-
nell, Converse College, Spartanburg, S.
C.; Mary Nelson, Converse College,
Spartanburg, S. C.; Catherine Leonard
Armstrong, Greensboro, N. C.; Willie
Scoville, Orangeburg, S. C.; Dorothy
Dorough, Atlanta, Ga.; Sallie Schenck,
Greensboro, N.C. Mr. and Mrs. C. Mc-
Donald, Charlotte, N. C.; Mr. and Mrs.
Morris McDonald, Charlotte, N. C.

/

Uf

And, you like them better all the time because
they never tire your taste!

Camels quality makes Camels so appetiz-
ing, so continuously delightful. And, Camels
expert blend of choice Turkish and choice
Domestic tobaccos gives them that wonder-
ful mellow mildness.

You have only to compare Camels with
any cigarette in the world at any price to
know personally that Camels are a revelation!

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.
Winston-Salem, N. C.

Camels are sold every-
where in scientifically
sealed packages of 20
cigarettes for 20 cents.

