THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 11,

[ Open Forum —_|

BIGGER OR BETTER?

No one would attempt to minimize
the fine efforts of those who have been
working for “a bigger and a better
Davidson,” efforts which have already
begun to bear fruit. However, there
are many still on the campus who feel
with the alumnus who wrote in last
week's Forum, that the “better” side
should be given more stress than the
“bigger” who feel that already David-
son is getting too large in numbers to
maintain the old Davidson usefulness.
There is a fable told of a frog that tried
to grow as big as an ox and burst be-
cause such a growth was unnatural.

Three vital points of improvement are
making an insistent call for the atten-
tion of all concerned in the development
of the College.

First, is a crying need for a better
plant. Half a hundred students are liv-
ing under tar paper roofs, in rooms with

4

The DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Intercollegiate Press Association

" FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.
a

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

Dee)
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before
12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

. E. CASSELL-.-..~.~.--------- == one nnn nn nown wenn en wenn nen Editor-in-Chief
. M. RICHARDS..-.....------------------------~-------------<+ Managing Editor
. ORMOND...-___-...---------~------.---.---.-----Assistant Managing Editor
. PRICE......------.~--------------------------------------Assignment Editor
. R. DOUBLES.._._.....----------------------------=-=-----~---Athletic Editor
. McKEITHEN..---....----------- ~----------------------------Alumni Editor
McCASKILL..___.....-..--~----------——----------.-.-------Exchange Editor

pececencnncccnenenans secsesececccecccceetennnnnas Forum Editor
BUNT ARS pennecennnecennrn nee rw nena nen new ence nn eneeennnnn- Campus Editor

. M.
eee ne nano nnnnenneracecnccenecee-eneeccee---¥; M,C. A, Editor
4 iN ROBERTS ---~-nnnonnonnonrnnro orn Sia Editor
M.
R.

REPS
a)

it
a

.

moh

. ) JRieennennnon--- nnn nn een nnn nen nnnnnnn-- aeons nee-5- Literary Editor
OAS WN Whe eee nx cial Photographer

po

REPO RTER S’ CL UB only paper walls to shut out the various

Bailey, J. C. King, A. D. Ogden, D. H. sounds, these abodes veritable fire
. Yd Lac , TA O aAC boxes. These same men have to go

Bitzer, R. Lone CG rmond © ™ some hundred yards to get to the
Cooper, W. J. Mahood D. L Phillips, J. W. showers. A number of students are
Cunningham, C. E. Mauze G Ww. Sprunt, J. having to live “out in town,” off the
Davidson, R. F. Mitchell, ‘A. M. Summers, A. C. campus. The infirmary is a frame build-
Gamble, W. A. Morris, H. M. Tuller, C. D. ing whereas this one building of all

others should be of brick. The “Y”
building is not adequate cither for our
own use as to movies, lounging room,
showers, and so on, or for the entertain-
ment of visiting teams and the friends
of the large number of students who do
not belong to the fraternities. The
bleachers at the athletic field have no
protection overhead and no rendezvous
for the players. Even as they are they
need repairs and too small to hold the
crowds. The tennis courts are like
bowls, bordered with grass that has
crept inside the double court lines, and
even at that there are only two courts,
enough for each students to play about
two afternoons during the college year.
Men come here from high schools which
have laboratories better equipped and
more closely co-ordinated with the
class room work than they find here.
The teaching force is too smal! and the
classes, therefore, too large. Chairs

Jones, J. R. Lowrance, D, W. Wool, J. C.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
C. J. MATTHEWS....---------------nn- onnannacneceneeeneene
E. A. NASH
J. S. CURRY

Business Manager

} weenececennnnecneneenene-ene----------------Assistant Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
C. H. LONG.....-_ 222-8 nen nnn nn neo n---------Circulation Manager
J. C. WOOL.......-.........---------.----------~.-...--.------Assistant Manager
Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

“A companion is but another self.”
. D———
N the face of things the first trip of our basketball team was not
O a success, but we must remember that some of the strongest
teams in the South were played. Everybody is proud of a fight-
ing team, and that is just what ours is. The spirit shown in the close
contest with Washington and Lee evidences this fact.
D————_.

The report of the committee in charge of the Famine Relief Fund
is discouraging to say the least. This is a question that a thinking stu-
dent cannot lightly disregard, and we would like to urge that our
men reconsider this matter in a serious manner. If proper thought is
given this question there is no doubt that Davidson College would sub-
scribe the amount asked. It is not our policy to dictate, but we would
like to suggest that it is imperative that each man give his share of
two dollars. It may entail a sacrifice, yet greater the sacrifice the
greater will be that inner satisfaction of helping your fellowmen. Shall
we allow Davidson to be a quitter in the great movement now being
backed to the limit by other American institutions?

D———

As long as time lasts there is one date in the history of America
that should always be remembered. This is the 22d of February, the
birthday of the great Father of our country. Ever since the death of
our illustrious Washington this day has been commemorated by suit-
able exercises throughout our nation. At such a time as this in the
welfare of our nation, when there are so many misapprehensions as to
the future, a day spent in discussion of those high ideals that character-
ized Washington might easily bring a clear understanding of the solu-
tion of the many problems now facing our country. For this reason
then can not Davidson set aside February 22d, for a day of patriotic
exercises consisting of a band concert, speeches, etc. Is the student
body in agreement with such a plan?

D——_——.

Other colleges are preparing to communicate with each other by
wireless daily in order that.interchange of college news may be quick-
ly made. We have a wireless operator in our college. Who will take
the initiative in making an effort to secure finances to set up a wireless
plant at Davidson.

il

ill

—__p—_—.
THE NEW PRESS ASSOCIATION

1921.

have to be supplied in church and chapel
to seat the present overflow.

Second, a closer examination of pros-
pective students would be well worth
while. We might profitably send out a
man or men not only to secure students
but to investigate the moral, athletic,
and academic record of each and every
man and avoid the kind that will never
make real Davidson men. We would
like to see all our friends have an ap-
portunity to come under the Davidson
influence, of course, but Davidson is not
a reformatory and no boy or parent
should be allowed to try to make it one.

Third, the creation of a stronger senti-
ment for proper study conditions, ad-
equate preparation for classes, and for
piotection of the Freshmen from the
triers who take up their time and pre-
vent their getting started right in their
studies is needed. This sentiment should
be promoted by the student body gov-
ernment. Regulations should be made
and enforced with a kind but unslacking
zeal.

In spite of these needs we love old
Davidson. That love makes us jealous
of her future: whatever promises to
make her future brighter we want to see
accomplished; whatever will weaken her
we want to see avoided. We want to
see efficiency always kept ahead of ex-
tension.

Let all the friends of the College work
for those things which will make David-
son bigger in influence by making it
better in equipment—in the improve-
ments planned and the others needed—
and in students and in student life.
Davidson's reputation has not been
made by thousands of mediocre men
gone out from her doors, but by a com-
paratively small number of real David-
son men. May we never depart from
our determination to keep Davidson's
standards as high as those cherished for
her by that splendid body of our fore-
fathers, stalwart in body, in mind, who
first gave Davidson to America and the
world to help them in their onward
march toward efficiency and noble
living.

Excelsior.
pD—__—.

“Prices may be coming down but they
have alt got their parachutes with
them.”

i

i

~ me

HL)
i

it ; ral Ht

sea
Shah

i : | |
ga
i

yey

Hae

CN eee an ee CS CO On

a

ve AS
fa rriny

Read the exchanges in the Library.

Wake Forest students have organized
a Booster’s Club, whose purpose is to
kick the knocker and boost the booster.
About fifty men under the leadership of
Dr. Poteat as an alumnus, met a few
days ago and frankly and openly dis-
cussed some of the existing evils rela-
tive to college spirit, and proposed
remedies.-

The re-establishment of freshmen
rules was heartily advocated as a means
of abolishing hazing; the promotion of
respect and co-operation with the stu-
dent government was pledged; utter
contempt and disregard for the habitual
knocker was adopted as a means of put-
ting an end to such individual's ob-
noxious practices; a better fellowship
as expressed by friendly grectings when
students meet on the campus was urged;
athletics received its full share of con-
sideration; in general, boosting was
adopted as the policy of all Wake Forest
men,

The policy was then presented to the
students and they adopted it whole
heartedly. There is now at Wake Forest
a booster’s club, the membership of
which includes every man on the Hill.

—Old Gold and Black.

Furman University is inaugurating a
student government to take the place
of the old supervision method of the
faculty. The Blue Stocking of the Pres-
byterian College of South Carolina ad-
vises to please let them go on.

Remember that a student government
is an Honor System. The things that
this can stand for are unlimited, ac-
cording to what the conception of what
honor is—The Blue Stocking.

The Columbia University baseball
team will play the Waesda University
team of Tokio, Japan, in New York next
spring.—Utah Chronicle.

i En eT avs

:

|

A need long felt in college circles throughout this State has been
filled. The North Carolina Intercollegiate Press Association is now a
living organization, and has entered upon era of service which all hope
will be successful in every way.

Too much credit cannot be given Editor Daniel L. Grant of The
Tar Heel and his colleagues who have made such a thing possible. Ev-
ery college in the State is indebted to these men for taking the initiative
.in such a movement. Their courtesy in inviting the delegates to meet
at Chapel Hill should be greatly appreciated, and our publication takes
this opportunity to thank them in the name of the Asssociation.

_ _ The interest manifested in forming this Association was gratify-
ing, and the inspiration derived from the meeting must inevitably be
reflected in the improved standard of the various papers and magazines.
It is the long needed tonic to really lift all the college publications up
from a kind of disinterested plane on which this special phase of college
activity has been resting. °
_ _Acritical period, however, is facing this new and untried organiza-
tion. To be the source of power and influence that it should it must be
backed to the limit by every college in the State. Without this co-opera-
tion the Association is doomed. After such a bright beginning, we urge
that every editor concerned give his time and talents in establishing the
Association on a firm basis in order that this end may be achieved. The
publications of Davidson College gladly enlist their all in this cause.

il TE

Because wrapped up in his pipe is a fellow’s peace of
mind, his relaxation, his contentment. ‘This is more than
true if it’s a W DC Pipe, because then a good smoke is multi-
plied many times over. Our special seasoning process takes
care of this by bringing out all the sweetness and mellowness
of the genuine French briar. Just you go to any good dealer
and select several good shapes. Put them in your rack.
Smoke a cool one every time, and you'll be well on your iH
way to pipe-happiness. , li

ON’T take a fellow’s pipe. Take some other possession.

Wom. DEMUTH & CO.. NEW YORK

WORLD'S LARGEST PIPE MANUFACTURERS

Le

il cia t
