4

The DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Intercollegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15 .
“The Livest Wire on the Hili*

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

‘ SUBSCRIPTION RATES: |
10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before
12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

J. E. CASSELL... wee nnennernn nnn nnnnnn enn anne-- === == oe eee Editor-in-Chief
J. M. RICHARDS _....-~-~~------------ == 2a none nen nn owen none, Managing Editor
A. P. ORMOND..........-----~------------------------Assistant Managing Editor
. P. PRIC woennn--=n-----~---------Assignment Editor
i R. DOUBLES.........._.. woennnan-------~~--------+---Athletic Editor
J. H. McKEITHEN..._....--.---. ---------..---...-..---------Alumni Editor
J. C. McCASKILL.......W.. 2 2-n nnn n nena nena 3-2 == anne ---- Exchange Editor
J. R. BOULWARE........_.---------- 5-2-3 nn een nnn nnnn ne Forum Editor
J. M. DUNLAP-..-.--.---------------..-... -Campus Editor
D. W. ROBERTS. _.._.__-._---__-_____------------------~---- ¥. M,C. A. Editor
A. HILL.-.-...--.----.--..--.-.~------------------ === nnn ee---- Social Editor

M. GASTON, JR._-------------------------------e-2~------------Literary Editor

REPORTERS’

King, A. D.
Lacy, T. A.
Long, C. G
Mahood, D. L.
Mauze, G. W.
Mitchell, A. M.
Morris, H. M.
Lowrance, D. W.

Ogden, D. H.
Ormond, A. C.
Phillips, J. W.
Sprunt, J.
Summers, A. C.

Tuller, C. D.
Wool, J. C.

Bailey, J. €.
Bitzer, R.
Cooper, W. J.

Cunningham, C. E.
Davidson, R. F.

- Gamble, W. A.
Jones, J. R.-

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

C. J. MATTHEWS. Business Manager

OSES SMR ERS Seeeeeswernneee.

1 .. _ } oce---a--. woeweee-------.--.--Assistant Managers
CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:

C. H. LONG -Circulation Manager

j. C. WOOL......--.........-.-.... ~---~~------Assistant Manager

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

Well, it has happened—Plenty of Junior Speaking and no rain. The
ratification of the League of Nations by the Senate would not cause us
any surprise after such a blessing.

The passing of basketball ushers in the diamond artists, and we
wish the best of luck to Coach Hengeveld in this year’s team.
D——__—.

The arrival of hosiery on the campus Friday was a sight to gladden
the hearts of many. Yes, we are only referring to the hose used in con-
nection with Phi Hall fire.

D——___.

Is your idea of college a place where you receive everything and give
nothing in return? Let this be your training grounds for a life of un-
selfish service, and begin now by serving your fellow students and col-

lege.
———_D—____
T HAS long been a matter of conjecture to us exactly what was the
I purpose of the water plugs on the campus when there was no
hose any where around. Last Friday demonstrated how essential
a good supply of fire hose is, and we would urge that the college take
steps to remedy this deficiency. The students are always willing to
fight a conflagration large or small, but to do it rapidly and efficiently
there must be the adequate first fighting equipment. A ‘few tin buckets
would not be very effective against a large blaze. The Phi Hall blaze
carries a lesson that should not be disregarded.
—————)D—_____

The spring styles surely added much to the picturesqueness of the
campus during the past few days.

That Davidson has good dramatic material was again demonstrated
in the excellent presentation of the two plays last Saturday night. No
one not actively connected with the Dramatic Club realizes the credit
that is due Professor Erwin and his wife for their untiring efforts in
making this new feature of our college life a brilliant success. They
have devoted much of their time and energy in directing this organiza-
tion, and we take this opportunity to thank them in the name of the
Davidson student body for their splendid work.

D————_

HATS OFF TO THE JUNIOR CLASS.
The long sought for ideal

Junior Speaking has been achieved. The
Class of '22 by making this possible has established a name for itself
that will long be remembered by the present students of Davidson Col-
lege. The social spirit of the occasion was excellent as is attested by
the large number of non-fraternity girls that were present as well as
the general democratic atmosphere of the whole campus. Too much
praise cannot be spoken of the Class that could accomplish this one feat
alone. The forensic exercises, reception, and program as a whole were
well arranged and executed. A new movement has been initiated with
great success, and we commend to the rising Junior Class that they fol-
low in the paths of their older brothers in bringing this plan into vogue.

CAN WE REMEDY THE DEFECT?

Each passing athletic season again reveals the most noticeable fact
that there is something seriously wrong with our cheering at various
contests. Davidson men are not lacking in school spirit, so this is not
the cause. Some have advanced the reason that there is too much of
the Calvinistic strain in our students for them to give vent to their feel-
ings by loud vocal demonstrations. But again we do not believe that
this is the real excuse.. The trouble as we see it. is the lack of an effi-
cient leader, and to overcome this defect we offer the suggestion that
each year the letter “D,” suitably marked, be given in order to create
competition for this position and thereby achieve better results. Other
up to date colleges have made this a custom, and the results in their
improved cheering is ample proof of the success of the scheme. There
is no reason why Davidson should be so behind in this expression of col-
lege spirit, and we offer to the Athletic Association our suggestion as
expressed above.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 11, 1921.

that will appeal to all who are interested

i ime baseball
available for use by 3 in good drama.—Orange and White.

practice gets in full swing. They will

EXCHPNGS.
O&

have a seating capacity of six hundred. D—__—_—_ ;
Of the four new tennis courts to be ANNUAL CARNIVAL TO BE HELD AT
constructed by the College Tennis Club, U. OF T.

two have just been completed and are
now opened to the use of the members
of the club.

The annual carnival of the University
of Tennessee was held Friday night,
March 4th, at the auditorium of the
Knoxville High School. There were
stunts lasting five minutes each by each
fraternity, sorority, and organization.
Numerous vaudeville acts were inter-
spersed to add to the gaiety and frolic.

In addition to an individual prize for
the best comedian; handsome loving
cups were awarded to the fraternity,
sorority, and club which was adjudged
as presenting the best stunt in its class.
—Orange and White.

BLUE CO-EDS.

pk

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room. Velvet Joe says, “Some girls ought to

wear speedometers instead of wrist
watches.”—Tiger.

Mel Trotter Holds Evangelistic Services
at Washington and Lee.

The nationally known Grand Rapids
Evangelist, Mel Trotter is conducting a
series of evangelistic services on the
Washington and Lee campus. He is as-
sisted in the services by Dr. C. F. Myers,
pastor of the First Presbyterian Church
of Greensboro, N. C., and Alumnus of
W. and L., and Mr. Homer Hammon-
tree, Director of Music.

—____D}—____.
A MIDNIGHT GAME.

The football game was over;
Before the parlor grate

A man and a maiden were lingering

Rather late.

They talked of funts and passes,
Things which were rather tame,

Till Cupid put on his nose guard
And butted in the game.

New Tennis Courts snd Bleachers for He lined that couple up The
Woke Forest. Then made them toe the mark; Other
New bleachers for the Wake Forest Soon he had them going Day we
baseball field are now under construc- With a scrimmage in the dark. Read a
tion and it is hoped that they will be As they sat there in silence Story

About a bunch

Of Illinois

Co-eds |

Forming a

Club and pledging
Themselves not to go
With any boys who
Smoked or chewed
Tobacco.

The boys

Then organized

A club pledging themselves
Not to date with girls
Who wore knee length
Skirts and went

To dances minus
Their corsets.

As a result nobody

In their new found bliss
Thesman thought the scrimmage

Ought to end with a kiss.
Thereupon he tried one,

An amateurish affair.
Then he lost it on a fumble

And instead it hit the hair.
The next he landed on her ear,

And the maid did shyly say:
“You are penalized for holding, Jim,

Likewise for off-side play.”
Fiercely he tried another,

This time succeeding fine,
For he made a touchdown

On that warm red five-yard line.
As they sat there in silence,

Communing soul and soul,
The parlor door swung open,

A NEED.

The Davidsonian is acknowledged as
the best college newspaper in the South.
But it cannot remain so if other col-
leges teach the students journalism and
Davidson fails to give her students this
assistance. We have a very helpful
ccurse of one year in Elementary Law,
so why can’t we have either a whole
year or even a half year course in news-
paper writing and editing? For a whole
year’s work this course could cover the

ground thoroughly, taking up every .
conceivable form of newspaper report- And father kicked a goal. —Ex. Has had a date
ing, and even taking up some time with —_—_D—_———_ In that burg
the technique of putting a paper to-| SPOKEN DRAMA TO BE REVIVED| For a
gether. TENNESSEE. ponth,

u

But discussing this matter will get us
nowhere at all unless the men most in-
terested in the matter get together and
show that a one year course in jour-
nalism is really needed and wanted by
the men in college doing newspaper
work. Who will start the ball rolling?

Homer.

Mark these words,
They all will flop sooner or
Later.

Under the direction of the new dra-
matic club, local talent is soon to resume
its place behind the footlights. On the
evenings of March 19th and April 2d,
there will be presented at Tennessee
Hall six one-act plays. These plays have| “The question is not what is the world
been carefully selected and are such|coming to, but when it's coming to it.”

—The Vanderbilt Hustler.
D—__.

i

le CT

Tl wy

.

HAT man doesn’t like his pipe? There’s nothing whets
your smoke desires like seeing a good pipe lying around.
Because you know that in it is the only real smoke satisfaction.
Your appetite will be doubly whetted if it isa WD C, because in
WDC Pipes all the sweetness and mellowness of the genuine
French briar is brought out by our own special seasoning process,
Then, too, W DC Pipes are good to look at. The designs are
pleasing and workmanship perfect. You'll agree with us that our
craftsmen are accomplishing their purpose—to make pipes that
are without peers in all the world. Ask any good dealer. Be
sure and look for the Triangle trademark. It’s a guarantee against ‘
cracking or burning through.

Won. DEMUTH & CO.. NEw vorK

WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES

v

*
+ yn
