>

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”
"Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before
12 noon Monday. Articles recgived from an unknown source will not be published.

. E. CASSELL._____._____----------------.---------------------. Editor-in-Chief
j: M. RICHARDS.........2.2222 222-20 n nee nn nnn ween ee ee. ---Managing Editor
A. P. ORMOND....___-_-------__---.--.-------------Assistant Managing Editor
J. P. PRICE_.._..---...---------~=-------~---------------------Assignment Editor
M. R. DOUB =. moon onen. wernece-------------Athletic Editor
J. H. McKEITHEN.............. wecene seccewcenenscnencecscesnssne lumni Editor

. C. MeCASKI wenenn nn nnn anne ennese nen nnn neo eee- Exchange Editor
} R. BOULWARE.......0..2- 2 ane en nee enn ewe n en wnenen nnn nnnwennes, Forum Editor
J. M, DUNLAP-__._______-_--__-____.-__--_------------------------ gampus Editor
D. W. ROBERTS.......~..------ --- 2 nnn nn nnn nnn nn nnn enone Y. M. C. A. Editor
H. A, HILL__._____-_____-__-_--»_--------------------------=- ~----=, Social Editor

|. M. GASTON, JR..--..--..----------~--~-..--------.------------- iterary Editor
4 R. MeLLWAUN Bool Photographer

CLUB

REPORTERS’

Bailey, J. C. King, G. D. Ogden, D. H.
Bitzer, R. Lacy, T. A. Ormond, A.C. .
Cooper, W. J. Long, C. G Phillips, J. W.
Cunningham, C. E. Mahood, D. L. Sprunt, J.
Davidson, R. F. Mauze, G. W. Summers, A. C.
Gamble, W. A. Mitchell, A. M. Tuller, C. D.

Morris, H. M. Wool, J. C.

Jones, J. R.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT: _
C. J. MATTHEWS.....-..-------------- ----------~+--+------

E. A. NASH
J. S. CURRY

Business Manager

} ween cen nnewerweccensancecenensennnn--a------ Assistant Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:

.-Circulation Manager
Assistant Manager

oS e PROSSER SOR SER SR a RES SS OR OSE RSS Seetwemenmeeee.

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

“He who lives more lives than one,
More deaths than one must die.”
D-————“_—_[

It would seem that the athletic coaching system of our college is
adept at training its coaches along matrimonial lines. Congratulations to

Coaches Grey and Hengeveld.
D———_

We admire the man who when he learns that he is wrong in his be-
liefs and plans has the courage to acknowledge it.

Dp——__—.

The athletic coaching system of our college seems to be skillful in
training its coaches along matrimonial lines, Congratulations to Coaches

Grey and Hengeveld.
D———_

We hear that third floor Watts has been turned into a dancing
avilion by the inhabitants thereof. The reaction of the World War
has hit Davidson with stunning force.

WATCH YOUR STEPS.

UCH has already been said concerning the students making paths
across the campus. The short cut from Rumple was made in
spite of these protests, and now it seems as if there is soon to be

a new one from Chambers to Shearer Chapel. We fail to understand
‘the students who will deliberately mar the beauty of his campus. They
cannot offer a good reason for making this new path. It is hard to be-
lieve that it is Feing done because the students are so anxious to get to
their classes. Thoughtlessness is the only excuse that we can possibl
see, and sometimes we believe this is worse than none. The new path is
now becoming very noticeable, and the only remedy is to desist from this
practice immediately. The appeal is made girect to every man that he
consider the direction of his footsteps in order that our campus may not
be dissected by numerous paths.

We hesitate to speak iri a critising manner of the “ID” Club, for we
recognize that this is composed of those men who ha me much for
their college. It is our belief, however, that wrong tacties are pursued
along a certain line. It is immaterial to the student body what treatment
an initiate receives at the hand of this organization, for everybody
knows that things will not be carried too far. What we do believe should
be changed is the attitude of this club to outsiders. We are behind them
when it comes to making any student give a yell for the wearers of the
“D" and we have no sympathy for the man who will refuse to render
this honor to the men who fight for him on the athletic field. He needs
something to wake him up. Aside from this we do not think the “D”
Club should go, and a promiscuous use of the harsh methods now em-
ployed is to be condemned. What has been said above is by way of con-
structive criticism, for if this practice is continued, the influence of this
honorary organization will be seriously impaired.

AN OPPORTUNITY FOR DECISIVE ACTION.

To become a leader in tht world the college student must sooner or
later make his decision as to his life’s work. Unless he does this his
career is sure to be a constant changing one, marked by an ever waning
sphere of influence. To say it more plainly, the tendency is that he will
become a “drifter” in the great affairs of life. .

' The choice of one’s life work is no easy task. For most of us it takes
careful, persistent consideration and thought plus an abundant amount
of faith to see us successfully through the most important task that be-
falls the lot of man. Rea izing how essential it is for a man to find his
proper place in the world, our Y. M. C. A. is promoting the Life Work
Conference to be held here the latter part of this week. Full informa-
tion concerning this meeting has already been given elsewhere. We
would only add that this should be a golden o portunity for many to
settle that burning question once and for all. The leader is fully capable
of the duty that hes before him. Play fair with yourself, men, and
ive Dr. Thompson the chance to help you on to a life of real service
or athers.

GO TO IT.

It is a very easy matter to stand on
the side-lines and criticise, but it is a
very different affair to take off your coat
and take a man’s part in the struggle.
The Student Councit has had to ex-
perience the unpleasant situation of be-
ing in the fight and having many on the
sidelines criticizing. They know that they
are making mistakes and not doing all
they should, but they are trying to
remedy them and would appreciate and
welcome any helpful, constructive crit-
icism. So, all that is said in this article
is not in any way critical but is thrown
out with the hope that it will help in
bettering conditions on the campus. The
writer is not a member of the Council.

The Student Council should be the
leader of the many student activities on
the campus. Each man on that body has
been chosen to his place because his fel-
low students trust him and believe that
he best exemplifies those things which
they stand for. The role of the Council
is not merely that of a police force, to
see that the laws and constitution of the
Student Government are carried out, but
it should ever be to lead in new move-
ments which would be for the better-
ment of the college and of the individual
student. They should make it clearly
known to all that they are only standing
for those things which are for thé best
interest of Davidson.

There are a great many matters in
which the Council could and should take
immediate action, but the eight that
stand out most prominently are:

(a) Start having bi-weekly meetings of
the Council as called for by the Con-
stitution of the Student Government.
There may not be legislative and judicial
matters to be decided at each meeting,
but these gatherings can be well spent
in discussing and planning for the future
policy and conduct of the men on the
campus.

(b) Discuss and formulate plans where-
by a higher standard of scholarship will
be required on the campus. The start-
ling figures given out by the faculty
show that entirely too many men are
failing in their work. What is the cause,
lack of study, lack of grey matter in the
brain, or what? The main cause is lack
of incentive. To pass his work with
one or two points to spare is the ambi-
tion of entirely too many. A tradition
should be implanted here, whereby the
man who does not pass his work is
frowned down upon, whereby every man
will be expected to at least pass the
majority of his tickets with a fair grade.
Then the man who comes here will see
that it is up to him to study and cannot
do otherwise.

(c) Work for closer co-operation be-
tween the faculty and student body. In
any college and university, there is
bound to be friction, though at David-
son we do not find much and yet there is
a good bit at times. Each is misrepre-

» | sented to the other. The Council should

act as the go-between and do away with
this misunderstanding as much as pos-
sible. All matters from the students as a
whole to the faculty should go througlir
their hands, and visa versa.

(d) Vivify and entarge the Honor
System. Each man on the campus should
be made to feel that he is on his honor
to act as a gentleman while he is here,
and if he breaks a ruling of the Student
Body he is at the same time breaking to
a greater or lesser extent his own per-
sonal honor. The Honor System works
well with regard to reviews and ex-
aminations, but its field should be widen-
ed and deepened.

(e) Take some definite stand on the
conduct of a student “off the hill.” Is a
man violating the Constitution when he
goes to a dance in Charlotte and gets
drunk. Up to this time, no definite
statement has been made and there is a
mist hanging around the whole affair
which should be cleared up.

(f) Formulate and enforce some meth-
ods by which all unnecessary noises on
the campus after supper will be done
away with. The time after supper is
devoted to study and should be barred
from outside disturbances. How can a
man do any hard, concentrated studying
when across the way a victrola is play-
ing or some fellow is learning to pick a
mandolin. Under the old constitution
there was a clause covering this, but it
was left out of the revision and certain-
ly should be reinserted.

(g) Put the Damage Committee on a
wotking basis. There is entirely too
much needless breaking and injuring of
college property going on. Men will

THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 21, 1921.

casually throw an apple through a win-
dow light, knowing that it will be paid
for by the general damage fee and will
not come out of his pocket. This, too,
must be placed under the Honor System.
Each man must feel that he is bound to
report any damage to the Damage
Committee so that they can see that the
cost of repair-falls upon the breaker
and not upon all the students. This is
the only fair and right way to handle the

oe

car

Nes
Read the exchanges in the Library.

situation.
(h) Enforce the

there? This and other matters should

be looked into. It is against the Consti-

tution for a Freshman to carve his
initials in any public place, and yet it
was done this year to the knowledge of
the Council and no action was taken.
There is a big work ahead to be done,
but it must be done if we wish to press
forward, and it is to the members of
the Student Council that the students
look for leadership. Let those the
helm guide aright and the rest of us’ will
follow gladly.
P. j.

We Want 6 Students Next Year. Begin Now.
WHY NOT?

The faculty has put the R. O. T. C. in
the curriculum here and has made the
attendance on its classes compulsory.
There are more men taking the classes
than any other ticket on the hill. Yet
the schedule committee made no pro-
vision for it in their schedule for this
year. Over 300 men have to turn in a
list of their vacant periods and the best
they can do is take the class at a very
inconvenient period. Most of the tickets
have two or three optional periods so
why not the R.O. T.C.? If the R. O. T.
C. is here to stay it should have the same
consideration that the other college
tickets have.

We Want 8 Students Next Year. Begin Now.

CHRISTMAS AT DAVIDSON.

The Yuletide festivities at Davidson
were by no means neglected. The dozen
o1 so students who remained on the
campus gathered themselves together in
South Cottage, where they spent their
time in profitable ways. Some played
tennis, some read and some hunted as-
siduously, and some took excursions to
Charlotte and Mooresville. A few went
visiting, and it is reported that some
even studied. Each night a student body
meeting was held for the election of
officers. The lucky fellow who had fallen
heir to the greatest quantity of “feed”
during the previous 24 hours was always
elected president.

On Christmas eve the Sunday School
Christmas exercises were held in Shear-
er Hall and were well attended. Dr.
John Moore and Dr. Richards, with the
true Christmas spirit, did much toward
enlivening the holidays by entertaining
the young people of Davidson at their
homes. The Davidson Orchestra, under
the supervision of Mrs. Lingle, gave a
party dn New Year’s eve which was en-
joyed very much.

At 12 o'clock p. m, December 31,
t920, the College bell and Methodist
Church bell united their melodious tones
in announcing the beginning of what we
all hope and intend shall be the most
successful year Davidson has ever
known.

Mes men prefer the

There’s comfort,
economy in a good pipe.
more. A special seasoning
briar bowl

WORLO's taroest*

Freshmen regula-
tions. Why was it that only go men were
present at the Randolph-Macon debate,
when the whole class was expected to be

University of Richmond.

Most of the college papers are finding
it necessary to reduce the size of their
publications for an issue or two after
the holidays. The Richmond Collegian,
however, is putting out the same high
class publication that she has been do-
ing all the year. The last issue carries
a well-balanced front page, very little
advertising, and a great deal of news.

University of North Carolina.

The Tar Heel, of the University of
North Carolina, is now publishing a four
page, six column, semi-weekly.

The preliminaries for the Penn debate
have been held, and C. T. Boyd, C. D.
Beers, and T. C. Taylor have been select-
ed to represent Carolina in this forensic
contest. These debaters will meet
Pennsylvania at Chapel Hill, January 22.

Wake Forest College.

The enrollment of the spring session at
Wake Forest has fallen off slightly, due,
to the depressed financial condition of
the country. The prospects of the
spring term are, however very bright.

The department of Philosophy has
been extended, until now a total of six
courses is offered in this department,
enabling students to specialize in this
work.

University of Tennessee.

Dr. H. A. Morgan, President of the
University of Tennessee, was slightly
injured last Friday aternoon, when he
was struck and knocked down by an
automobile as it entered a Gay Street
garage.

Professor W. W. Lewis, professor of
Spanish at Tennessee, is planning an ex-
tensive tour of Europe, the coming sum-*
mer. He is to be accompanied by a num-
ber of University students, who are in-
terested in obtaining facts concerning
French and Spanish life.

A total of 106 Cornell students has
been found guilty of fraud in their June
examinations by the Committee on Stu- .
dent Affairs. ;

A four year course in argicultural
journalism, leading to the degree of
Bachelor of Science in agriculture, has
taken its place among the other col-
legiate departments of Iowa State Col-
lege.

We Want 500 Students Next Year. Begin Now.

HERE AND THERE
AMONG THE ALUMNI

Rev. R. M. Phillips, 1913, of Pittsboro,
N. C., has accepted the pastorate of the
Presbyterian Church at Glenn Springs,
S C, recently vacated by Rev. T. A.
Beckett, 1912.

Rev. John Richards Hay, 1910, was
married to Miss Sarah Craig at Chester,
S. C., on Wednesday, December 29, 1920.

L. C. McAskill, 1919 is now with Home
Light and Power Company, at Hartsville,
S. C. Coker College is also at Harts-
ville; “Mac” likes his location.

We Want 980 Students Next Year. Begin Now.

pipe to any other form of smoking.
contentment, real satisfaction and
WDC Pipes give you this, and
; process makes the genuine French.
break in sweet and mellow,
at four nearest dealer’s, at your price.

We; DEMUTH &

Pick a good shape

& CO.. NEW YORK
makers Xor ping pipes
