THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 16, 1921.

3

rian and Home Life! Wilson’s Room Was Last|W!-S0N’S ACCOMPLISHMENTS

Big Help to Wilson

|

to Go in Chambers Fire

| (Continued from page 1)
}documents, reprints, and other material

Dr. C. R. Harding Tells of Influences | Flames Licked Up All R of which he was making use.

That Helped to Make the Man.

While it is true that the life story of |
the father of Woodrow Wilson is’ in|
no way so eventful or dramatic as that |
of his son, widely known in newspaper |
parlance today as the Lame Lion of S|
Street, Washington, yet the distinguish- |
ed son had a distinguished father to|
whom he is indebted for gifts and|
graces of a remarkably high order and
for an environment and an atmosphere
from infancy into,’mature years that
were of inestimable value in their con-
tribution toward moulding the  char-
acter, informing the taste.and directing
the ambition of this son.

Rev. Dr. Joseph Ruggles Wilson was
born February 28, 1822, at Steubenville,
Qhio, the home of his father, James
Wilson, at that time publisher of the
Western Herald. Judge Wilson ¢ame
to this country from Ireland about 114
years ago. He was married in Phila-
delphia at the manse of the Fourth
Presbyterian Church in 1808 to Anne
Adams, who came over to America on
the same ship with the man she was to
marry.

The Wilsons were
descent and as a family seem to have in-
herited all of the strong traits, physical,
intellectual, and moral, that have char-
acterized this sturdy and stalwart peo-
ple.

Joseph R. Wilson was the youngest
son of Judge James Wilson. As a boy he
learned the printer’s trade, but not with
a view to making journalism or this
craft his life’s work. It was early un-
derstood that the ministry was his true
choice. After completing the course
of study in the Steubenville Academy, he
entered Jefferson, now Washington and
Jefferson

ern Theological
Pa. Later‘ he went to Princeton Sem-
inary where he continued his studies.
Upon his return to Steubenvelle from
Princeton, he accepted a position as
teacher the Male

in local

made the acquaintance of Janet Wood-

row, a beautiful young woman, and in|
due course of time entered into another |
engagement of a more absorbing kind!

that resulted in his marriage to Miss
Woodrow.

Bjanet Woodrow’s father was a Scotch

minister, his profession being in keeping |

with the traditions of the family, which
also acknowledged kinship with the
Covenanters. Rev. Thomas Woodrow,
the grandfather of Woodrow Wilson,
with his eight children, came to Canada
from the old country in 1836 but in the
following year moved to Chillicothe,
Ohio, where he resided for a number of
years.

Two weeks after Joseph Wilson's mar-
riage he was ordained by the Presby-
tery of Ohio, but he did not at once en-

ter the pastorate. He accepted an ap-

pointment to the chair of Rhetoric in|

Jefferson College. However, he remain-
ed here only a year.
at

His next work was
Hampden-Sidney College, Virginia,
where for a period of four years he was

a member of the fadulty and taught the,

natural sciences and mathematics, all

the while preaching as occasion offered
to neighboring congregations or in» the
pulpits of the college church or of Union
Seminary, then at Hampden Sidney.

It will be noted that though he had
studied for the ministry and his train-
ing had been largely along theological
lines yet he was elected to teach Rhet-
oric at Jefferson and then to teach
Science at Hampden Sidney, a striking
proof that he early evinced a versatil-
ity of talent and a roundness of scholar-
ship possible only for one well endow-

ed by nature and one who had added to!

this intellectual endowment an equip-
ment that only comes from hard study.

In 1855 the young professor was called
to the pastorate of the Presbyterian
Church in Staunton, Va., and moved
there with his wife and his twoédaugh-
ters. A year later Woodrow Wilson
was born.

The first Presbyterian Church of Au-

gusta, Ga., extended an invitation to Dr... Mr. and Mrs. Osborne Barringer and!
Wilson in ,'58 to become its pastor. The) children, of Charlotte; were visitors on}
|the campus Sunday afternoon.

(Continued on page 12)

of Scotch-Irish |

College, at Washington, Pa.!
He graduated here in 1844 and then be-|
came a student of theology at the West-.
Seminary, Allegheny,:

Academy. |
While filling his engagement here he!

Around Before Getting No. 13.

“Fire is no respecter of persons, it is
impartial, heartless—it takes within its
devastating grasp the property of rich
and poor, of great and small, it even
takes the lives of any who may dare to

come within its terrible domain.”

Surely all will agree with the writer
of the above, and yet—had he been
present on the morning of November 28
when fire, that dreaded horror, took hold
upon the grand old building of Cham-
bers, which embodied the very heart of
old Davidson, and changed it in the
cent, grand, imposing structure to a mass
lof crumbling walls and. smouldering
lashes; he would have had to modify his
slatement. For even in the most terri-
ble form in which it has visited the col-
lege in its history, fire showed that it is

/not entirely heartless and impartial, as¢

the writer has claimed.

For years certain in North
Wing Chambers has been sending up a
mute appeal which has gone unnoticed,
unheard by all. One could almost hear
Number Thirteen say, as he passed down
the hall, “Did not I for two whole years
shelter the greatest all
times?

a room

American of
arms around Woodrow Wilson and pro-
tect him while as a student he worked,
studied, played, talked, and slept within
my walls? And yet, I remain unhonor-

|

[Ruins of Woodrow Wilson’s Old Room.

|

led, no tablet adorns my walls,.no bust
stands over my mantle, no inscription
tells the world what a great man I once
held.
ally someone will mention these facts,
but the rest go by not taking time to
give me honor. Won't
me?”

Men scem.not to care; occasion-

someone honor

And the call went unheeded until fire
came along. He, too, heard the appeal,
and he decided to do what man had fail-
ed to do, to give honor to whom honor
is due. Slowly, surely, his destroying
hand swept before it room after room
in the old building, and gradually he
come nearer and nearer to Number Thir-
teen. But there, he seemed to want to
siop. He ate into all the rooms around;
his piercing flames could be seen on all
sides, and-yet the old room was untouch-
cd. The room was still calling, and in its
death-agonies the call was heard by fire
who responded in his own way and paid
his homage to the name of Woodrow
Wilson. Though holding off as long as
possible, the very nature of fire himself
pushed him on and Number Thirteen,
unhonored during its life but crowned
in its death, was no more.

D.

“Bobbie” Long, ’24, has withdrawn
from college and will enter the Univer-
sity of North Carolina after the holidays.
|W. G. Raker, ’25, will likewise cast his
lot with those at Chapel Hill, having re-
turned to his home in Lexington last
week.

D.

course of a few hours from a magnifi- |

Did not I throw my sheltering!

| In Public Life.

| The election of Dr. Wilson as Gover-
‘yor of New Jersey by an enormous ma-
|jority in a Republican state in 1910, and

|
|

The second proyision of the peace set-
tlement that Mr. Wilson advocated was
that of colonial mandates. . This idea
was incorporated in an article of the
League Covenant. In one of the famous
fourteen points was this statement: “A
free, open-minded, and absolutely im-
partial adjustment of all colonial claims,
based upon a strict observance of the
principle that in determining all ques-

under his leadership the enactment of! tions of sovereignty the interests of the
the “Seven Sisters” (economic and polit-| populations concerned must have equal

ca Ireforms) into law in the state point-| weight with the equitable claims of the

ed the way to the White House. Scores| government whose title is to be deter-
of Davidson students, under the direc-} mined.” This was the same principle
tion of the writer, went to the national) contained in the plan of self-determina-

capitol and took part in the inaugural
parade March 4, 1913. Suffice it to say

| tion for the European states but it was
given a new and different application.

that during President Wilson’s first ad-| For centuries the stronger and more en-
ministration in Washington, more bene-| lightened nations of the world had been

ficial legislation was put on the statute
books than during any

President Washington.
a:

other period) the resources

As for his acts) desires of the native inhabitants.
|
party leader, as statesman, orator.) plan of President Wilson, which we

laccustomed to seize upon and to exploit
of undeveloped peoples

three times as long since the days of| and lands, regardless of the rights and

The

diplomat, chief of army and navy, peace! cepted by the conference, was to make

dictator and negotiator,

defender of | these backward races the wards of the

democracy, world-idealist, behold, are} enlightened and responsible nations and

nations of the earth?
Thos. W. Lingle.
D.
WILSON ACCOMPLISHED
MUCH:

(Continued from page 1)
to mention only three of the important
achievements of the Peace Conference in
which President Wilson’s leadership was
conspicuous.
adoption by the conference of the princi-
ple that the national aspirations of the
peoples of Europe should be satisfied. In
his speech before Congress, February 11,
1418, President Wilson said: “National
aspirations must be respected; peoples
inay now be dominated and governed
*Self-deter-
"This
principle was adopted by the conference
and as a result the new map of Europe

only by their own consent,

mination’ is not a mere phrase.

|
|hopes that had been suppressed for gen-

Poland, Czecho-Slovakia, and
Jugo-Slavia became independent nation

berations,.

Roumania was enlarged to in-
all Italy
| possession of former Austrian territory
inhabited by Italians; the Danes of
SchlesWig were united to Denmark; and
| Alsace-Lorraine was restored to France.
“It is the principle of justice to all peo-
ples and nationalities, ang their right to
live on terms of libert@“and safety with

states;

clude Roumanians ; asquired

The first of these was: the |

tkey not written in the chronicles of the}as they developed to grant them the

of America. Though many hope and be-
lieve that great good will be accomplish-
ed in the present Disarmament Confer-
ence, the Washington Conference, is to
the League of Nations as a corollary is
to the main proposition. The whole in-
cludes all of its parts with their implica-
tions.

The fact that a one-time Freshman at
Davidson College who went in and out
of old Chambers as others did, who es-
sayed to speak in the literary societies
and probably failed, who answered the
call of the college bell to chapel and
class, should have reached such an as-
cendency in world affairs, should have
established himself as the moral and
political leader of mankind, and then
was able to dictate a world peace guar-
anteecing freedom to men everywhere,
will always be a source of pride and
inspiration to the students and alumni
of the college.

Ev) p)

COLLEGE HISTORY TELLS OF
WILSON’S DAYS AT DAVIDSON

rights of | self-government. It) was
America's avowed policy toward the
| Philippines given world application.

{These two provisions of the peace set-
‘Wement-—national self-determination and
mandates in a a
declaration of independence for all the
loppressed peoples of earth, proclaimed
in their behalf by the President of the
| United States.

colonial were sense

The greatest achievement of Mr. Wil-
fson at Paris was the agreement known
as the Covenant of the League of Na-

This i international co
operation to prevent future wars
President’s heart than any
Lother subject that came before the con
‘ference and his leadership and success
in making the covenant a part of the
peace treaty placed him in the first rank
of world statesmen, America had enter-
fed the war not only to save the cause

‘tions, of -

Was
jnearer the

jcame,_ into existence, realizing national | of human freedom, but also to destroy |

militarism and to make war impossible
in the future, and President Wilson re-
fused to make a treaty unless the League
of Nations was an integral part of it.
The Covenant of the League needs no

explanation. It is a great world docu
ment, a kind of international constitu-
tion, or Magna Charta, guaranteeing the
of mankind Its
idealism is found in the consciousness of
the universal brotherhood of

its practical exemplification in) the em-

rights everywhere.

man and

1 tae .
one another, whether they be strong or] pire of British commonwealths and in

| weak.”

lthe Federal Union of the United States

(Continued from page 1)
“It was in his literary society work,
however, that other definite records be-

sides his grades in scholarship and at-
tendance were left, and they are charac-
teristic.

{ “He was initiated into the Eumenean
fold on October 4, 1873. On November
the was assigned a composition ‘two
weeks hence, and on December t he led
ithe negative of a debate on the query,
‘Resolved, That Republicanism is a bet-
jter form of government than a limited
linonarehy.’ This is nrost likely the first
{time that the world-leader of today made
a debating Speech, On January 17, he
delivered an original oration, the sub-
ject of which is not given, On February
14 he read a composition and on the zoth
he spoke on the affirmative of the ques-
Htion, ‘Resolved, That our
should foree our children to attend free
The. committee of judges de-
cided in favor of the negative while the
house voted that the affirmative had won,
on the merits of the question,

government

schools.’

“The society halls at this period were
heated by stoves and we find this item:
‘Stove committee, T. Wilson, Sharpe,
Sullivan,’ which had the honor of carry-
ing pine knots to keep the fires going
In March he
Was on a committee to judge a debate.
In the records of the meeting of March
28, we find that ‘Scriptures were read
and prayer was offered by Mr. 7. Wil-

during the long: sessions.

(Continued on page 12)

ONIN DO DONE CNET BAe Te 110 TONED DOO LUNN

When You Think of

Printing---

BRADY

COMES TO YOU

Statesville, N. C.

AT ONCE

Brady Printing Company

Tanah ext vert

Te

axit/ex

itvavitya’

LOWOuIO

+g ItravitVaxtt/axii@\ttVext arti aviivevtt@nttvevtivanti/eviieriivevt@\ii/evtty
