= THEDAVI.. #SONIAN [We

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON. N. C.. APRIL 1, 1921.

Omnipotent Opulence Del-| Baseball Season Opened by Split With
——— Oak Ridge an and Loss to Carolina

Lady Lack Transforms Poverty Strick-
en Faculty an eats into Buck Currie Pitches Team to Victory in in First Oak Ridge Battle—Institute
Princes of Finance . Boys Winners in Second Contest—Carolina Takes
Hard-Hitting Game at Winston

te

Vol. VIII. No. 25

Christian Endeavor Convention
Presents Interesting and
Worthwhile Program

Speakers Issue Stirring Challenges to to Fall-Time Christian Service—Hundred
Delegates Take Part in Social Activities and Business Program

For many years it had been the pri-
vate opinion of the reporter that Tob-
litski said it; but a recent interview with
McIlwaine leaves no doubt that it can be
attributed only to Methuselah. “Its an
ill wind that blows nobody good.” And

The Wildcat nine opened the season
by defeating the strong Oak Ridge team
to the tune of 4 to 2. The game was
played before a-large crowd of en-
thusiastic spectators, who cheered ev-

Glee Club Gives Concert
at Greensboro College

The District Christian Endeavor Con-
vention met here last week with dele-
gates from societies in the eleven coun-

Tournament Holds Atten-

ties around Davidson. Two of the trav-
eling secretaries of the movement,
Charles F. Evans and Frank P. Wilson,
were among the speakers, as well as
other prominent leaders in Endeavor
work. Special mention should be made
of the very helpful devotional messages
given by Dr. Richards on “Look Up,”
“Look In,” and “Look Out.” The whole
program was very good and the enter-
tainment furnished by the townspeople
was almost ideal, so that the convention
will certainly be remembered for some
time to come as one of the bright events
in the history of Christian Endeavor in
this part of the State.

tion of Tennis Enthusiasts | probably there was never a little epigram

Thirty Men Enrolled for the Elimina-
tion Matches~-New Courts
Being Utilized Fully

What's the score?

Deuce again!

Are you interested in tennis? Have
you watched the ambitious aspirants for
the team, dashing madly about the
courts, vieing one with the other in skill
and cunning, in order to fit themselves
for the final contest?

About 30 men have turned in their

so congested with wisdom.

Our bold hunters of the golf hal been
complaining for some weeks of a grow-
ing scarcity of their preferred-to-be-
hunter game. The golfs weren't using
around where they were accustomed to;
aud it loked as if there wouldn’t be
much need for bag-limits and closed
seasons. The whole trouble was that at
every hole the Golfs used to inhabit the
Army had established proving grounds
for some of its implements of destruction.
Most any afternoon you could see “June-
bug” Price pottering around with his
“heavy artillery,” or “Rifle Rest” Clark
resting on his trusty (though disappoint-

Fine Crowd Braves Rain to Hear Da-
vidson Music-Makers

Last Wednesday the Giee Club left on
the 12:23 for Greensboro, going by way
of Barbers and Winston-Salem. The
concert was given in the spacious au-
ditorium of Greensboro College for
Women, and a large audience was in
attendance. The rain kept some of the
folks away, but notwithstanding, a fine
crowd turned out to hear the music-
makers.

On the way over, several of the mem-

ery pretty play.
First Oak Ridge Game.

Oak Ridge opened the game by scor-
ing a run, while the Davidson team was
held scoreless by McLaughlin until the
fatal fourth, when the whole club batted
around, scoring four runs. The Presby-
terians took advantage of McLauglin’s
weakness and.shoved over enough runs
in this frame to gain a lead which the
lads from the Institute were unable to
overcome. Their run in the eighth end-
ed the scoring.

The Wildcats outhit their rivals, but
the Oak Ridge boys had a perfect day in

[the field.

to normal,” the church should try to
work “up to normal.” He then discussed
the elements which should make up a

working church, laying especial stress:

on the work of the laity.
Sunday Afternoon.

The C. E. Convention began its Sun-
day afternoon session at 2 o'clock. At
this meeting one-minute reports were
made by representatives of different so-
Ccieties, stating the most important things
which they had accomplished during the
past year. The main feature of this ses-
sion was an address by Mr. Frank Wil-
son, Field Secretary of North Carolina
and Virginia. Another important and
very helpful feature was the general
conference ort methods of doing C. E.
work, led by Mr. Evans and Mr. Wilson.

(Continued on page 3)

JUNIOR “REP” MEN FOR
COMMENCEMENT ANNOUNCED

The faculty committee has announced
the six men who are to represent the
Junior Class in the speaking at the com-
mencement season. Each of the two
literary societies will have three men in
the contest for the medals. It was de-
cided to defer until next year the plan
to have only two men from each society
and to retain the old plan one more year.
The list as given out at chapel services
on Tuesday by Dr. Martin is as follows:
From the Philanthropic Society: J. L
Knight, J. H. McKeithen, and G. N. Neel,
with W. M. McLeod as alternate. From
the Eumenean Society: J. C. Bailey, Jr.,
P. D. Miller, and J. M. Richards, with J.
P. Price as alternate.

Seven volumes of plays and two vol-
umes of essays by Maurice Macterlinck
have just been added to the library.
These are the English translations of
the work of that French writer, who is
being read more and more widely. The
essays are: The Buried Temple, and The
Measure of the Hours. The plays are:
Princess Maleine, Joyzelle, and Monna
Vanna, The Miracle of Saint Anthony,
Sister Beatrice and Ardiane and Barbe
Bieue, The Intruder and other plays. The
Burgomaster of Stilemonde, and Mary
Magdalene.

—_____)D—____
SIGMA UPSILON FRATERNITY

ELECTS 3 NEW MEMBERS

The Sigma Upsilon Literary Fraternity
held a meeting last Tuesday night in the
Pi Kappa Alpha hall. The program for
the meeting was very interesting and
was thoroughly enjoyed by all of the
members present.

F. V. Long rendered an extremely hu-
morous and somewhat spooky story con-
cerning the traditional skull found in
the base of one of the columns of Cham-
bers building. John M. Gaston read the

on our golf links! But there it was.
(Continued on page 3)

Mac Richards Chosen New
Pilot of the Davidsonian

Energetic Staff Appointed—Prospects
Good for Coming Year

"|

The election of The Davidsonian offi-
eers came off last Tuesday. As a result
of this election “Mac” Richards was
selected to be Editor-in-Chief; Johnny
Curry, Business Manager; and J. C.
Wool, Circulation Manager.

There were only two candidates for
Editor-in-Chief, “Mac” Richards and Ray
Doubles; J. P. Price, having been elected
president of the Y. M. C. A. the pre-
ceding day, being ineligible.

This is the first issue published by the
new staff. The Davidsonian has made
great progress during the past year and

(it is hoped that it will improve even

more during the coming year.
The new staff appointed by the Editor-

second chapter of the continued story |in-Chief is as follows:

which set forth the hero enveloped in
the deadly throes of a strike in an Ala-
bama coal mine. Dr. E. F. Shewmake
made a very interesting and instructive
talk on the works of O. Henry and the
value of these works.

J, C Bailey, M. R. Doubles, and R. K.
Shaw were elected to membership in
the fraternity.

After the literary Program had been
carried out refreshments in the form of
ice cream and cake were served.

W. A. Gamble, Jr.—Managing Editor.

H. H. Smith—Assistant Mgr. Editor.

R. F. Davidson—Assignment Editor.

A. C. Ormond—Atheltic Editor.

C. Summers—Alumni Editor.

McKeithen—Exchange Editor.

Price—Forum Editor.
Doubles—Campus Editor.

Bailey—Y. M. C. A. Editor.
mes Sprunt—Socia! Editor.

H. Ogden—Literary Editor.

. J. Cooper—Publicity.

A.
J. H.
J. P.
M.R.
j.c.
Jam
D.
W.

and Allison made hits with their solos, !

and MeLeod and Thompson brought
down the house with their side-split-
ting jokes and funny capers.

At the conclusion a short reception
was given the club, after which all ad-
journed to the hotel and spent a peacc-
ful evening.

a

D.

GAMMA SIGMA EPSILON
HOLDS SHORT
BUSINESS SESSION

The Gamma Sigma Epsilon Chemical
Fraternity met on Tuesday night. A
short business session opened the pro-
gram. Dr. G. H. Cartlegé formerly an
assistant professor of Chemistry at Dav-

idson, and now teaching at Johns Hop-.

kins University, was received into the
Alpha Alpha Chapter, and Louis P. Good,
a charter member of this chapter, au-
thorized to duly initiate him at the
university.

The business session was followed by
ar interesting and scholarly essay on the
subject “Alcohol,” by A. P. Ormond. In
a masterly way Ormond discussed the
manufacture of alcohol, and its future
use as a substitute for gasoline in the
present gasoline-engine. The mecting
closed with a general discussion of this
important question of the present day.

D—_——___.

The Book Lovers’ Club met with Miss
Mamie Withers, Friday afternoon, for an
election of officers. The following were
elected: Miss Nannie Withers, presi-
dent; Miss Hattie Thompson, vice-presi-
dent, and Mrs. E. F. Shewmake, secre-
tary.

Saturday Afternoon. in J ) ; a
Saturday starts ater the wa fame to the manager Ed Canning [cy The golf hunters wou tit towed thee prosperity Wn}. Boy ees ae
«speeches of welcome and response, the tering the lists on the appointed day away in the holes with their crooked itietin wished personages being: Me-|s a ‘ ge: .R O
Davidson Juniors presented a two-act| he tournament was to have begun (sticks for half a day—but no golfs! They Geachy Vance. Law Thompson “Pros. Smit a. 3p aeeeneeeeneenee 11210
playlet, bringing out the field and the last Thursday, but owing to the in- ad all gotten scared and skipped the perit "Matthews and others ; Lowe. > _...... ' ° 30 0
work of the Junior Christian Endeavor clemency of the weather this date was country; that's all there was to it. But |! Aver descending from the train in the Me _ --+---- 02400
Society. This was followed by short! changed to Monday, the 28th. Monday the Proving grounds (where you prove|Gate City, the boys were required to MeGict “I a °) 6 a
talks on Junior and Intermediate work, came, but no matches were played off. |2O" cant hit a barn door with a bass wait at the station until the Business | siz ree °° °°
led by Mrs. W. H. Howell, of Wilming- | 4 good many, however, improved their fiddle) continued to bloom lustily in all Manager made arrangements for the “hornaa. ss oo roe
ton, and Mr. Evans. time by practicing vehemently. their noisy arrogance. troupe at the Hotel O'Henry, After a Hoe tf wovosore ° i" °
At 7 o'clock a delicious lunch supper! for the purpose of .making things: After it had seemed impossible to hit short jaunt in the drizzling rain the MeLaughlia, p cosrseen ce. be
was served the delegates in the gym-| ome out even, 32 names and blanks the whole geography with a machine club enjoyed the luxurious parlors of the. pPowrrecrers FO OTS
nasium by the ladies of the town. This | were put into the hat together, and the SY" the Army decided to get up real O’Henry, choosing. to remain there un-! Total 2 11 0
was followed by a “get-together” meet- result is shown by the list which is post- close toa mud-bank, and see if bullets til supper time rather than try to sec. Davidson: Tesoececwnenn a R HPO A E
ing, aca by a Arbuckle: when jokes, ed in front of Chambers. They aidt “They all ree oneraption. the sights. Of course, this excludes Rachford, 2b woenee nee 401330
comical reading and music furnished en- : Parr : wea A . ° |
tertainment. the httest” test will constitute the team,|bunch: and they made a funny little) Sig) WoMeu nar Wha just had (© go Out) Brown, tf —<----W------- 211100
Saturday Evening. for the present at any rate, though later |TOUNd hole where they hit—about big/domecls to come to the performance. | Slepard Wo 3 lee _
Mr. Whilsen ‘ook a few minutes to de- on any man may challenge a member enough for 2 golt to resalte that it ke, Needless to say, his pleading met with) Cassell, ss _-........... 400040
scribe the State Convention to be he m. 5 ‘ 55. ;
at Wilmington, June 10-12, and Mr. aie toute itt ae played to the stepping on the trigger ; and the little oa he ae lence was one of the most ap: | Bernee tb eens ; ° oa ° 3
Evans enthusiastically stressed the great |bitter end; that is, till only one man is hole seemed to be getting pretty deep. sreciative before which the club has had ‘Neal, 3b OS we wmmecwnnan o1ito2
World's Convention to be held in New |left unbeaten, and he will be prociaimed AM ofa sudden there came out of the th leasure of performing. Every num- | Currie p o1r0e00
York, July 6-11. champion. hole a peculair sort of oozy sound, and b ep os at lenct once and the , ee
Rev. Daniel Iverson, of Charlotte, de- ———__D-___ then a great, monstrous ker-splish! The wartet, or “Flarmony Four” were call-! Total 28 4 8 27 rr _
livered the address of the evening on VOLUMES OF PLAYS AND whole Army. gun and all, started making ed back many times. The Jazz Band al- | -Score by innings: —_ RHE
“Normalcy,” saying that whereas the ESSAYS ADDED motions like a comet. Who would ever de i y ; i ; nz. ey One id gs:
: “ ke have thought it—an “Old Faithful” right so made its usua . Nit, ane was calle ; a . idge -.100000010 25 0
country was now trying to get “bac TO LIBRARY back for encores time after time. Law); Davidson --_..00040000x 48 3

Second Oak Ridge Game

The second game with Oak Ridge was
a pitcher’s battle between Miley and
Morris, with the latter coming out on
top, due to better support. Although
the official score was 3 to 1, neither
team earned a run. The game was fast
and close, and the Wildcats didn't lose
hope until Shepard let three good ones
go by.

The prep school lads took the lead in
the second frame when they pushed two
markers over the rubber on a hit, two
errors, and an infield out. Phillipe open-
ed the inning by rolling out to Ratch-
ford. But Sizemore started things with
a Texas Leaguer over second. McGirt
was safe when Barnette booted his
grounder and each runner advanced a
sack when he threw wild to first. Hood
was safe at first and Sizemore scored
when Barnette failed to touch first on
Cassell’s peg for Hood. Hood stole

(Continued on page 2)

~

* ok * + * &* * «*

* WHAT, WHEN, AND WHERE *
* Thursday—y: 715 p. m. Phi Literary *
* Society. bd
* Friday—7:15 p. m., Bible Class Lead- *
* ers Meeting. *
* 9:00 p. m., Reporters’ Club Meeting. *
* Saturday—7: 1§ p. m., Movies: Doug- *
las Fairbanks in “Down to Earth.” *
9:15 p. m, Eu Literary Society *
Meeting

* Sunday—to:00 a. m, Bible Classes. *
* 6:15 p. m, “Y” Service.- .
* Monday—3:30 p. m., Baseball: Woff- *
* ord vs. Davidson, at Davidson. .
* *£ *£© © & ww *

ca
e
*
