>

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 4, 1921.

The DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Intercollegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.
——$$—$—[— [——__—oSE S——————————

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:

10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

oO SSeS
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before

12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source wi

not be published.
pon nnnnnnnnneennnnnnnnnee Editor-in-Chief

| Open Forum |

FIVE DAY. WORK WEEK.

“In Ye Goode Olde Days” several years
ago, the weekly schedules of classes of
the Davidson students were graced by
the presence of one holiday per week,
on Monday. There are many among us
who would be gratified indeed if the
faculty would see fit to readopt this plan
instead of the full six day week in reci-
tations in force-at present. The week
as it is now is just one day after an-
other with the same work all the time,

el?
hs
am
Th

Read the exchanges in the Library.

Requests are being made of all the
college publications in the South by the
University of Richmond to send dele-
getes to Richmond in April for the pur-
pose of organizing a Southern Inter-
collegiate Press Association. The ob-

WITH THE OTHER COLLEGES.

(By Inter collegiate Presse News Service)

ELON SENIORS PRESENT CLOCK
AND BELL SYSTEM TO COLLEGE.

Elon College—The class of ‘21 has pre-
sented to the college a modern clock
and bell system. The parts have arrived
and a great part of the work of installa-
tion has been done. All of the electrical
work is being done by the Senior
Physics class.

The system is electrically operated.
The master clock is in the Administra-
tion building; smaller clocks and gongs

}: E ey 15) ae nenene Managing Editor | with no let-ups and no holidays, as Sun-| ject of the Association is to raise and|4"€ '" ance dormitdry. A very large
A. P. ORMOND..-...-- manennnnnnnecorscececenne-=e---Assistant Managing Editor | day would hardly be classed as such.} maintain the standard of Southern Col- on, will be place in t € summer house
J. P. PRICE.___..-.-------------~------+-----== ~Assignment Editor Many students have a full day of four|lege publications. The movement is a|°" the campus. The historic college bell
M. R. DOUBLES. _.-.-------~--------------- ~ vAluenini Editor classes and lab on Monday and in order | significant one and will doubtless accom- will got be used hereafter except on
J. H. McKEITHE eee es Exchange Editor |to prepare for them Sunday night at! plish great results. Richmond Univer- Sundays and for irregular occasions.

J. 7 ai ---Forum Editor |least much be devoted to that purpose. | sity is to be praised for beginning such D—_—_——.

J. R. BOULWARE.. zeorum Ed r ! DR. W. H. FRASER A

J. M. DUNLAP.- - eeeeeeee onc--Campus Editor | That is probably one explanation why|a needed undertaking—Richmond Col- . W. A. ACCEPTS

D. W. ROBERTS.......---- nn awn n——nnnnnnnnn=eY. MC. A. Editor the old custom of visiting the homes of | legian. . QUEENS COLLEGE PRESIDENCY
H. A. BS in rn», Literary Editor | the faculty Sunday night has fallen off

iM McILWAINE..--......--- one 20en-ene anna nano ann Official Photographer |so in recent years. Sunday must be used! On last Tuesday afternoon Coach| ueens College—Dr. W. H_ Fraser,

REPORTE

RS’ CLUB

for study the same as any other day. To
be sure the first period on Monday is
vacant, but who can properly get up a

Metzger gathered his Gamecocks to-
gether for the first spring practice.
About 25 men responded to the call and

of Belhaven College, in Mississippi, has
accepted the presidency of Queens Col-
lege. He will arrive in June to take

Bailey, J. C. King, A. D. Ogden, D. H. full day's work in one period? What|the number is increasing daily. {n-|"? his duties. Dr. Fraser is a well-
Bitzer, R. Lacy, T. A. Ormond, A. C. a sense of contentment and satisfaction | cluded in the list.are several new men known educator in the South and will be
Cooper, W. J. Long, C. G Phillips, J. W. could be ours if we knew that at least | who promise to be mainstays on the 1920 heartily welcomed at Queens.
Cunni , h CE Mahood, D. L. Sprunt, J. one day of the week could be our own} Gamecock eleven. As several old men € ministers and elders of the Pres-
unning’ am, ©. Mauze, G. W. s ma AC with no classses or work of any kind to|will not return to the University this byterian churches of Charlotte and vi-
I Davidson, R. F. Mitchell, A. M. ummers, A. do. It would provide a time for more] fall there will necessarily be some|°!ity entertained the Queens College
Gamble, W. A. Morris, H. M. Tuller, C.D. fellowship and social activities among| changes in the old line-up. By reason of faculty Thursday evening, February
Jones, J. R. Lowrance, D. W. Wool, J. C. the students and we could get together | this early training Coach Metzger is be- | 24th, in the parlors of the First Presby-

Cc. J. MATTHEWS.

E. A. NASH
J. S. CURRY

C. H. LONG a
. C. WOOL....-.------------

J

cates whether a publication is a live one or not.

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT: ;
wow nenencccceccenennnnasecenercens-=! Circulation Manager

memecneccececennannne-nenenee-------Assistant Manager

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

“To be trusted is sometimes a greater compliment than to be loved.”
D——___-

Do not forget the New Junior Speaking. Each man in the student
body is a part of this occasion, and it is up to him whether this new stvie

speaking shall be in vogue hereafter.

D———_—
It is said that the interest of the students in the Open Forum indi-

criticism is welcomed at all times.

Your constructive

‘|put an additional class or two or three

and know each -other as we cannot do
now, when the other fellow has to be
working if you do not.

But you say it would throw that work
on other days and would therefore be.
undesirable. It may be that it might

other working days, but that would not
be an unsurmountable hardship. The
average American works only when
pushed to it, and if we had a little more
work on other days it might prove an
inspiration to better work and better
marks. If we only have a class or so to
prepare for the next day, we are very
apt to let them slip till the last minute
and probably never touch them at all.
but if we are confronted with the task
of getting up four tickets we will do it
and do it right. The average student’s
schedule is not so hard but that it could
hold an additional class or so on some
of the proposed five working days with-

ing able to train some very valuable ma-
terial to take the places of the stars
who are passing out. The results of the
Practice so far are very gratifying and
the possibilities of turning out a win-
ning eleven this fall are becoming gréai-
er each day.

Practice will continue daily for the
next two or three weeks.—Gamucocik

Furman University loses one of her
star backfield men in Lee Rhame, who
has recently been appointed to the
United States Naval Academy. Rhame's
appointment becomes effective early in

une and the fast halfback will not be
able to feature in the Purple Hurricane’s
anticipated successful season of 1921.—
Furman Hornet.

We were riding
On a street car
The other day,

terian Church.

Queens was represented by three stu-
dents at the Student Volunteer Confer-
ence at Trinity the week-end of the 25th.

D——____._.

GUILFORD WINS DOUBLE
VICTORY IN DEBATES

Guilford College—On February 19th
the Guilford College debating teams won
a double victory in a dual debate with
Hampden-Sidney College. The question
debated was, “Resolvéd, That, waiving
all questions as to transportation, the
Federal Government should own and
operate all the coal mines in the United
States, constitutionality granted.” Guil-
ford upheld the affirmative. Its repre-
sentatives secured a two to one decision
in the debate at Guilford, while the team
debating at Hampden-Sidney won a
unanimous decision.
p—

—————pD—____ out any undue. exertion on his part that] And a girl, S. H. Bradley has gone to his home in
We are glad to see Davidson puting out a wrestling team. Every | will overtax his studying capacity. The! A pretty girl, Sumter, S. C., after spending two weeks
new enterprise means another step toward .a Greater Davidson. The|relief on the day that we can truly rest} Got on; in the infirmary here on account of

support of the students should be given unreservedly to the men com-
posing this team.

will more than make up for it. Every
organism needs rest and relaxation be-
tween periods of work, and the student

With her dress
Above her knees—

D he eal And she was
It is growing to be the popular custom at many institutions _to of Davidson is no exception \Sphynse. yoo old.
grant Easter Holidays. We do not care for this to be of long duration Didn't we
so far as Davidson is concerned, but we do want Easter Monday as a ——_)—_—_ Fool you
day of rest from class room work. A REMEDY SUGGESTED. y

T

Dp——____

The exercises held in honor of George Washington was a success
both as to the address and musical program. Above all else, however,
the occasion clearly demonstrated to every one that the College Band is
a live and up-to-date organization. The popular impression of the qual-
ity of the band gained from its showing on the drill grounds is not a fair
one. Under the leadership of D. R. Freeman this musical organization
has reached the point in its development where it can render first class
selections in a manner that reflects only honor upon the director. Too
much credit can not be given Mr. Freeman for his untiring efforts in
making the band worthy of the name of Davidson. It is an organization
that means much to our college in ways too numerous to mention. It is
the best “pep rouser” on the campus, and as such it should have our
whole-hearted support.

D——__——

A CHALLENGE.

HE time has come when it is necessary that definite steps should
be taken by right thinking students regarding the modern dance
question. No longer is the ball room a place for innocent recre-

ation, but it has deteriorated into a rendezvous where “polite society
dissipation” is at its premium. It has almost reached the point. of be-

coming one of our absorbing social problems.

Not only is drinking

running riot, but what is worse, many girls, frequently half dressed, are
engaging with partners still under the influence of liquor in those mod-
ern dances conducive to impure thoughts and sensations. We tremble
to think of the inevitable results. It is our belief, to speak it plainly,
that a decent girl can not afford to attend dances where such practices

-are
peri

P

concealed in this amusement

ermitted. Parents, especially the mothers, do not seem to sense the

in its present state of degredation.

Should not the college men of America theh rise to meet the issue? Has
our ideal of womanhood and manhood reached the point where we no
longer consider modesty as essential? Surely this cannot be. Our duty,
therefore, is plain. It should be our high purpose not to countenance
or gaze with indifference upon the evils of modern dancing, but to do all

in our power to elevate this amusement to a refined plane.

In this

way can we render a great service in maintaining the American stand-

ar

: where. It is to t

of clean manhood and purewomanhood.

Davidson College happily does not have to contend with this form
of recreation on her campus, but we do know that some of her students
are like other people in that they attend dances when at home or else-

ese that we make the people that they enlist in the.

fight to raise dancing to its former standard of decency. This should
be the common cause of the college men of America, for in their hands
is an influence and power that can accomplish this great service for our

Every man on the campus appreciates
the work of the “Y.” Especially is this
so when it comes to the “Y” moving pic-
tures. The pictures this year have been
exceedingly good; it is a pleasure to
fork out the necessary “two bits.’ Put
here of late an annoying practice on the
part of some has grown up. The promis-
cuous noises made by the small town
boys are referred to.

They do not seem to be open to sug-
gestion in this matter, for they continue
despite the protests of those in charge.
The simplest way to cut short their
career of noise would be to refuse them
admission. But that would be unchari-
table and very few of the fellows would
favor such a course except as a last
resort.

The only other feasible remedy is al-
most as simple—don’t turn on the lights
between reels, for it seems that the few
minutes of light puts new life into them.
Were you ever in a cinema theatre
where the lights were turned on at

periodic intervals? Hardly. Why then,

is there need of doing it here? Of
course for a while several of the more
hard-headed of the students will call
for lights, but if no attention is paid to
them they will soon subside.

How about it, fellows? The “Y” is
giving us the best pictures that are put
out; are we to let our enjoyment of them
be endangered when a simple little rem-
edy will right matters. If by chance the
darkness does not phase them, sterner
measures are in order.

Paramount.

There are 1,176 higher institutions of
learning in the United States. This list
includes all the universities, colleges,
professional schools, colleges of agricul-
tural, mechanical, technologicat and

That time?—Mississippian.

A writer on hygiene subjects declares
that a young man should kiss a girl eith-
er on the right or left cheek. As there
seems to be some uncertainty as to the
proper cheek to kiss, most young men
will continue to hesitate between the
two.—Ex.

She—“Why did they call a foul on our
man?”
Escort—“For holding.”
She—"Tee hee; he’s just like the rest
of the Furman men.”
Dp——___

The Civic League has appointed Thurs-|¥

day, March 3d, as clean-up day.

rheumatism. George McCutcheon ac-
companied him as far as Charlotte.

EIGHT-HOUR SERVICE

PRIOES
4c
Sc
6c
6c
Developing any size roll 10c
B We use glossy paper unless other-
R wise requested. :
= Cash with order or work will be
; mailed C. oO. D. fo ; :
end negative for sample print 3
free. ple prin’ ;

Vest Pocket
2 1-453 14
2 1-224 1.2
4 1-436 1.2

Charlotte Photo Company

tobacco— every tobacco— tastes better ina WDC

NY
AN Pipe. Our own specially seasoned and carefully selected
French briar makes it #0. Add to this the supercraftsman-
ship of the Demuth workers, and you'll not wonder that we
claim pre-eminence in the quality of our pipes. Ask any

good dealer,

‘Wn. DEMUTH & CO., NEW YORK

present-day society. As true Southern gentlemen the students of Da- WORLD'S LAROEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES

. ; mining science, normal schools, theologi-
vidson can only enlist on the side’ of decency and modesty:

cal seminaries, and junior colleges.

