THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 14, 1921. 5

Po ee Le A dt tb tet bt ee

For Nearly a Century
Columbia Theological Seminary has been training men

for the Gospel Ministry. It is under the control of South
Carolina, Georgia, Alabama and Florida, with a mem-

THE RALEIGH

Charlotte’s
~ Best Cafe

BOTH SOCIETIES DR. HOOD ATTENDS CONFER. |# bership of 89,000 communicants. Its Faculty was
J. T. Matthews, - - Prop. BEGIN REGULAR WORK ENCE DURING HOLIDAYS | never more complete and efficient than at present.
Phone 348 NEXT SATURDAY Many improvements to the plant is contemplated for the

—_—_—— Dr. Frazer Hood, Professor of Psy-

Phis Held Session as Usual Last |chology, has had a busy Christmas re-
Week—Eus Idle. cess, spending the first part of the holi-

days at Northwestern University, Evans- |
Program for Eumenean Society, Decem- | ton, Ill., where he was formerly director | .
ber 15th. of the School of Salesmanship. From: &%

Debate: Resolved, That the attempts | Evanston. Dr. Hood went to Chicago, geagagaetetetetetetetetetetetetetetewte
of labor unions to control the labor | where he attended a meeting of the Psy- pasos

221 W. Trade St. near future.

For information address, The Executive Office,
Thornton Whaling, President Hugh R. Murchison, Executive Secretary
Columbia, S. C.

Established 1079

A. a. Fetting Manafactering market operate in restraint of trade just | chological Association, and then pro- rs es
Jewe Co. as much as the trusts do. ceeded to New York, where he repre- SWE A’ rE R Ss
ry Affirmative : Negative: j|sented Dr. Martin, who was prevented ee
Manafacterers W. T. Elliott T. L. Fraser | from attending the meeting of the As- : . :
C.D. Tuller H. M. Morris | scciation of American Colleges. Make weather like this seem like a balmy
Greek Letter Frateratty Jewelry } | w. a. Gamble, Jr. G. B. Sorrels|- Tho a busy Christmas, this must have springtime. ey are comfortable and at-
Oration: been a pleasant one for Dr. Hood, and tractive, and they cost less money than an
313 N. Liberty Street ‘J. C. McCaskill his family, in the mecting of friends and Overcoat. ° - . .
SALTIMOBE, MD. : the renewing of former acquaintances. e . °
Philanthropic Society. They returned to Davidson on Monday, Carolina Sporting Goods Company
Program for Thursday, January 13, 1920 January 11. EVERYTHING FOR THE OUTDOORS MAN
(Note Change of Date.) ne » ane :
eecccccccooosooscooooooooooosooconsooooes Debate: LIBRARY NEWS . 5 West Fourth Street (Just Off Tryon) Phone 3248
e@ -@ C F ARirmative : Jj N jeaative: ° ca a OC NHS Ao ENR
. W. Smit . M. Dunlap oan ?
BradyP rinting 0. D. W. Roberts J. L Knight} Many new books have been added to! § ACA CATT A A
J. P. Booth R. M. McGirt | the library recently. Probably the most lf
° Extemporaneous Debate: important, however, are those of fiction. |J
The Colle e Printers Cc. G. Lon * This new addition includes the follow-
. g J. F. Clark]:
Oration: ing:

J. A. Poteat The Long Chance—Peter B. Kyne.

The Phi Society started the New Year| Mary Marie—Eleanor H. Porter.
with a large attendance and livewire| The Eldest Son—Archibald Marshall. |B
speeches. With the oratory of Free- The Purple Heights-—-Marie Conway |B
man, Query, and Murdock McLeod, and | Oemler. 2
the humor of “Bugs” Robinson the even-| The Valley of Silent Men—James Oliv- | E
ing was very well spent. er Curwood. =

The president announced the subject The Prairie Mother—Arthur Stinger. | &
for debate as, “Resolved, That the par-. The Devil's Paw—E. Phillips Oppen-
doning power in the state be vested in| heim.
five men instead of in the Governor —_—_)D————_

alone.” THE 1921 QUIPS AND CRANKS. |z

Ralph Freeman discussed the question 2
from the economic standpoint in that
githe Governor takes up too much time
when left to do the job alone. He also
called attention to the fact that senti-
ment may be a more powerful factor
with one man than with five men. On
the rebuttal he attacked Hill’s speech.
pretty severely. Hadley Hill, first for
negative, based his arguments on un-
broken customs and mercy for those
s;condemned. C. G. Brown, speaking
Zisecond for the affirmative, called at-
tention to the fact that this was a bur-
den which should be removed from the
Governor's shoulder’s. Query then de-
livered a speech full of oratory and
pathos showing how unnecessary this
five-man commission was. L. P. Burney,
with little chance for preparation made
a “noble effort,” according to the critic.
He emphasized very forcibly his col-
legues’ points. W. K. McKain, last for
the negative, brought out the fact that
precedent showed the present pardon
system had not been abused except in a
few isolated instances and was there-
fore acceptable. Decision was two for
the affirmative. .

Charles W. Robinson stated the sub-
ject for extemporaneous debate as, “Re-
solved, That solid geometry should be an
Bi entrance requirement at Davidson.” In
ms |a very clear way he showed that this was
properly a high school subject, and be-
sides one loses a whole fall term by

If you want good printing
and quick service,

Brady is the man
to do it

rir iitit tty yy

STATESVILLE, N. C.

The Selwyn Hotel

FIRE PROOF

Located in the, heart
of Charlotte, conven-
ient to railroad _ sta-
tions, street cars, busi-
ness and shopping cen-
ters.

Table d’hote lunches,
12:00 to 2 P. M.; EURO-
PEAN.

Rooms $1.50 and up;
with bath $2.00 and up.

Our system of artesian
water flowing through the
building.

H. C. Larzelere, Prop.

ebddceerreooe
@

(Continued from page 1)
Lord, I have been giving short weight in
my store,” or “I have been flirting with
the milliner,” every man and woman in
the church would listen with bated
breath.

Now if you have any clever hunches or
suggestions to claim that the Annual
this year will be radically different, but
all the claims that we make will be un-
derestimated, as we know that the final
test is the acid test. When you examine
this book you are going to say, “The
Management Told the Truth.”

Of course there are going to be a/f
number of interesting humorous features
in the joke section that will be almost
as exciting as what Deacon Smith could,
say if he would. To tell them here would |
spoil a good thing. Wait until the book |
is out.

Perhaps some of you are wondering
why there is such an urgent call for . ee a nr
money at this time of the year and it is /§
only right that you should know. Wel]
are letting our cash on hand and funds
available stand as a guaranty for our
printing and engraving contracts and we
must have the money in hand to do this.
Now, don't think that I am going to rave -
about the high cost of living, or loving,
or shine, for though all that enters "|

OUR NEW HOME

[DESIGNED and built with definite ideas of what the
home of a printing plant should be. Seven thousand
square feet of floor space, for the convenience and facili-
ties necessary to planning and producing printing that
gets results.
When in Charlotte we shall be glad to have you stop in
to inspect our new home, or to confer on printing prob-
lems that may confront you.

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUB. CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

C. 5. MATTREWS, Agent

pesebeseseareaest y a if

“THE HOUSE OF SERVICE”
+ Pree Tee thvcre! Siting Plan

it, still it doesn’t primarily concern us.
The thing that we are after is to put out

IF |

i = om.

Write for taking it after coming to college. Fred {the best allround Annual that Old David- :
Catalogue, Smith, for the negative, showed that|son has ever had. We tried to get the -
Prices and students coming from cities like his |$3 in the blanket fee but were unable to DD. : Zs

f Terms

without going through a whole lot of
red tape, so we had to take this matter
in our own hands and we are going to
get some action out of it. After this |

would be conditioned in every case if
solid geometry were required upon en-
trance. Both men came back strong on
the rebuttal with ridicule of each others

_

Thursday. Friday and Saturday, Jan. 13th, 14th and 15th

pet points. The decision was two for |payment you can sit back and wait for OVERTURE
the affirmative. the best Davidson can produce, “The 1921 | Academy Orchestra
Murdock McLeod delivered a very in-|Quips and Cranks.” ° Direction Charles H. Shonland
structive oration on the vast undevel-| What do you thing about having your {ff
oped resources of Mexico. name embossed on the cover, in gold? |f F ROLIN COMEDY
The Society voted to change the time | Nifty little trick, says I. And too, you e PATHE NEWS

for meeting from Saturday night to|can have your girl’s name on that extra i

Thursday night to take effect at once,|that you are going to give her. Won't

so that the next regular meeting will be |she be plum tickled tho? Oh Boy. And K LA DORA AND BECKMAN

Thursday night, January 13, 1921. all this for the infinitesimally small sum | A Pair of White Birds

D-——_ of 35 cents. Thrills!!!
NEW STUDENTS. Now, if you have any clever hunches E CREEDON AND WALSH
; or suggestions or snappy pictures or |f In a “ Barrage of Nonsense’’
“THE WORLD'S BEST PIANO” Miss Annabelle Readling, Cornelius. kodaks that would make most interest-
And other standard makes sod the Mr. R. L. Hall, 14 Chambers. ing material, be sure and send them, or I HAZEL HARRINGTON & COMPANY I
incomparable Mr. B. L. Team, 12 South Cottage. better still, bring them yourself to Bob- {fj In ‘‘Pairs Repaired’’
i AMPICO Mr. E. P. McCaskill, 16 Chambers. bie Long at No. 2 Rumple or to me at No. a Ee
| Rensonabletermsotpaymentcanbearraaged B! Mr, J. D. Steed, Smith's. 9 Georgia. We will welcome you with EMMA FRANCIS and HAROLD KENNEDY i
, Taniog, Repalring and Bovtag —_——_D—___—_. outstretched arms (this only refers to ‘ .
' JOHN W. POST & CO. Dr. and Mrs. Grey gave a family house | the male gender) and will talk the whole Presenting an unusual offering of laughs, songs and dances
Mnabe Warereems party during the holidays. Among those | thing over with you. BERT WHEELER AND COMPANY
; 299-211 W. Trade St., Charlotte, N. C. S| present were Mrs. J. M. Query, Mr. Chas.| Yours for a Bigger and a Better An- Automobile Pantomime, ‘Troubles of a Jitney Bus’*
>

Grey and family and Mr. and Mrs. Hugh | nual.

Grey.

Stores alsoat Norfolk and Newport News, Va.

ewe

CM. McCaskill. a
