Onward
and .
Upwar

THEDAVI

Carry
On,
Fellow

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. IX.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C.. DECEMBER 2, 1921.

No. 13

Fire Destroys Historic Chambers

Plans F oF New And Better
Chambers Already Begun

New Dormitory, Heating ‘Plant, |
Class Rooms, and Laboratory |
Planned at Meeting Wednesday. |

Before the ashes of old Chambers |
had given up their glow, while the)
weathern-worn brick were still hot}
from the effects of the terrible con-|

flagration which will forever be a}
vivid picture in the minds of the}
present students of Davidson, even;
before the flames had ceased to curt
about the smouldering bits of tim-|
ber, plans were set on foot for the
building of an appropriate edifice
on that same site selected by the
founders of this institution many
years—ago—for—the—building which}
was destined to become the center}
of all college activities, and around
Which Davidson traditions were to
cluster for many decades.

The first step was taken while the}
flames were mounting high about
the falling roof of the old Yniiding.
‘The last futile effort had been made
to save Chambers from total de-
struction, every bit of furnishings
and personal property which was
within reach had been removed from
the burning structtire, and there re-
mained naught but to silently watch
the fast disappearance of the mas?
sive hall, A call came from Presi-
dent Martin and the student body as-
sembled, the determination in their
countenances being vividly brought
out by the light of the flames, _

Dr. Martin appealed. to the siu-
dents*of Davidson to make the ter-
rible disaster a thing of inspiration,
and to take this opportunity to make

the old college a “bigger and better!

Davidson.” He asked that the stu-
dents stand behind the faculty as one
man and that their courage never
flag.. With heads bared, and with
the fire of determination in their
spirits, the body sang “O Davidson,”

A meeting of the faculty was call-
ed at 9:30 o’clock on Monday and
plans were discussed for taking care
of the homeless students, and for
continuing the work of the college|
with the least possible interruption. |

At 10:30 o’clock the student body |
gathered in Shearer Hall, for the|
purpose of meeting the miatter|
squarely and to take definite steps|
for the continuance of college activi-
ties and studies. Speeches were made
by faculty members, and students
sounded a note of optimism and de-
termination Which immediately re-
moved any possible doubt that the
affairs. of the college would go on as
though nothing had happened.

The Executive Committee of the
Board of Trustees was summoned by
President Martin. They convened in
the president’s’ office in the’ fore-
noon of Wednesday, and the meeting
Was continued through the after-

‘noon, These men took the matter
in hand and nothing will be left un-
done to place Davidson in a condi-
tion that will equal that of a week
ago, and even to forge ahead in a
campaign of improvement.

The Executive Committeemen
who were in attendance were: Dr.
Walter L. Lingle, of Richmond, Va.;
Dr. L. T. Wilds, Lexington, N. C.;
Mr. R. A. Dunn, Charlotte; Mr. H.
N. Pharr, Gastonia; and Mr. John
P. Allison, Concord. :

Definite plans for the rebuilding
of Chambers, or for the erection of
new buildings, are still in the course
of formation, but every effort will

(Continued on page 8)

g

a:

Chambers As She Did Look.

Facts And Figures On Chambers Building Taken From History

Of Davidson College

Construction Of Building Was Architectural Triumph in Early Days and Structure Was Great to The Day of Its Loss

The following facts and figures|nearest railroad at that time was 20
away. This fact made the col-!
f 2 fi |
'lection of stone, mortar and timber!
The founda-|clay on the college land and were

about Chambers ‘building were | miles
taken from the History of Davidson}
College, compiled in 1920 by Miss!
Cornelia Shaw, Librarian, and pre-
sented to the college by her:

“As soon as the Chambers legacy | the Concord road, and in the Rocky
became available, came the erection! River community. The lime was
of the most imposing and perhaps| mined at Little Mountain, across the
the largest college structure in the|Catawba River. The heavy timbers
state. The building*was erected by| were cut at Huntersville, while the
J. N. Scofield, of Davidson. The|planed lumber, coming from South

a great undertaking.

jtion and pillar stones were quarried |
cat Mt. Mourne, at Lover’s Leap, on|tank now stands.

as shipped to Charlotte

by train and hauled by teams to Da-
vidson. The bricks were made, of

Carolina, w

burned where the railroad water

“The length of the building is 279
feet and its height, where crowned
by the cupola, is 95 feet. The splen-
did columns which make the build-
ing distinctive in southern college

(Continued on page 8)

Building
Chambers Building Empty
Shell of Former Majesty

Dead Walls said Four Massive Col-
umns Only Remaining Vestige
of Grand Old Structure.

-|their trunks,

Fntailing a money loss of over
($250,000 and an inestimable loss in
subjective valuation of one of the
}South’s most historie college build-
ings, Davidson College was deprived
of the old Chambers building by tire
early Monday morning. The tire
jwas discovered shortly before 5:00
fo’clock and the alarm given at once;
but the flames traveled rapidly and
were soon beyond the control of thes
bucket brigade which was hastily
Hormed-by students and townspeople,
| OF the estimated $250,000
$100,000 was covered by insurance.
In the building were the department
of pltysies, including a leeture room
land several laboratories, equipped
with many very expensive instru-
Ments; the museum; an old library ;
Hive class rooms, and the dormitories
jon the north and south wings of the
building accommodating about 135
jstudents, Due to quick work by a
igroup of students and Dr, Douglas,
{much valuable equipment was res-
cued from the physics laboratory.
One irreplacable and incalculable
loss was that of the old library,
j Which was located on the second
Moor, In this library were kept many
pvolumes-of inestimable value, Inthe
}mMuscum were geological and bio-
logical specimens of rare interest.

loss,

Many students saved practically
jal of their personal belongings by
hastily thrusting their clothes into
rolling these trunks
down the stairs or throwing them
lout of the windows, and then throw-
ling their books, bed clothes and oth-
her belongings out of the windows to
i those w aiting below to remove them
fo safety. Students from other dor-
mitories rendered their unlucky
jbrothers much aid by entering dif-
[ferent rooms and saving all they
could. Those who roomed next to
the stairways were unable to save
jimuch, due to. the facet that their
Looms were the first to be attacked
hy the flames. The ones who room-
led in the north wing were also ham-
ppered because this wing had only
one stairway, which was soon amass
fof flames. Many boys were forced
jto climb to safety from the windows
and in doing this J. 1. MeKeithen
fell from the third floor, receiving
jonly a slight injury, however,

‘ :
As the fire was dying dawn a

Ibugler sounded assembly, and the

students, coming from all directions,
some clad only in pajamas and bath
robes, lined up ina body. Dr. W. J.
Martin made a ringing address, de-
claring that the spirit that had made
Davidson one of the strongest col-
leges of the South would assert it-
self in the midst of the catastrophe
and that an even greater Davidson
would arise from the ashes of old
Chambers building. He then called
for a meeting of the faculty for 9:30
and of the student body for 10:30
o'clock, and stated that there would
be no interruption of classes after
Monday. /He also said that arrange-
ments would be made immediately
forthé housing of the unfortunates.

After Dr. Martin’s address, which
was heartily applauded, the students
stood with bared heads, singing “O
Davidson” as an indication of their
fervid college spirit and loyalty.

The student body rally in Shearer

(Continued on page 6)
