2

THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMEER 9, 1921.

The DAVIDSONIAN)] open Forum

Religious News

a

With Other Colleges

|

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association

|
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

A BURNING SHAME.

No right-thinking student can ‘be
-other than proud of the strong, splendid |
men on the Davidson faculty; no one}
lean fail to be moved by the courageous |
___ | way in which our college. president and
his helpers are tackling the problems |
brought about by the fire. The mem-
| bers of our faculty are older and wiser |
{men than the students and yet there are)
| seme things that have been earnestly
| pleaded for in these columns in the past |
which if realized would perhaps have}
saved Chambers. One of these was the
|concrete plea for an adequate fire fight-|

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
1o Cents. per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published. |

RICHARDS.

P. PRICE

Forum Editor

thief

-Editor-in.C bit, Ee ‘ing equipment, operating without which |

W. 7A -Managing Editor j: S. CURRY. Pp Editor Ing equipment, oF ‘a (HRHAKCOEAHE

H. H. SMITH-.------ Asst. Managing Editor 3 Oh LG A Rrsescseuss Y. MC. A. Baer has been termed by old friends o he

f , F nett

i & ORMOND. say Hil Editor ), Hy OGDEN J Riccscceececes Literary Editor| college a “very short-sighted policy.”

A. C. SUMMERS Alumni_ Editor W. J. COOPER......---------- Publicity Editor] Another was the plea that the better
McKEITHEN-.------.-- Exchange Editor

be stressed rather than the bigger in the!
college development along several lines—
housing, classrooms, teaching force, ete.

REPORTERS’ CLUB

» Pres. FEWE =D. MAUZE, G. W., V.-Pres. pene Payer 73 Arie ee
FSR urea GRAY. J.°S, MOORE, W.'H. De spite these things one fire after an-|
BROWN, C. V. HESTON, W. M. teh Gt Sec.-Treas. J other in the immediate vicinity of the
BRONOUN. MP. JONES) J. TULLER, C. D. lcampus, and one in the Philanthropic}
“OX ea ONES, KR:

WALTHALL, D.
WILDMAN, A. C.
WILDMAN, C. F.

1 ‘society hall on the campus, have been

allowed to pass without driving home
their lessons, until our beautiful historic
Chambers has been swept away. With
insufficient hose, practically no pressure, |
and a water supply that soon gave out,
}the students stood helplessly by and saw
their rooms burn with such of the per-

COX, W. M.
ELKINS, L. D.

KNOX, W. I.
ELLIOTT, W. T.

LACY, T.
MAUZE,

E. H.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

J. C. WOOL. Business Manager
L. A. TAYLOR, E. T. WOOLFOLK and W. S. SHEPARD

Asst. Business Managers |

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT: ;
Circul

LES--...--.-Circulati Manager Assi in ‘i Department: sone *ssions as i ; 5 save

we al Pee Neth TULLE: 8 Ss. CP AIN eo eng | Son al possessions as in the rush to save
Asst. Circulation Managers WATT McCAIN R. L. PRICE ‘themselves they had to leave behind, the

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible. | value of this personal property alone be-

cas | ing more than adequate fire protection

would have cost.

IN
EDITORIAL

Money was invested 18 months ago in

some frame dormitories which might
: £ 1 have been well spent for five fighting |
Few of us thought before the firs that we would ever miss the old equipment, two tinder boxes being

chapel bell, but now that we have to listen for bugle calls instead there
are not many who would not be glad to hear its familiar tones once
more, |

chosen as a wiser step toward a better
Davidson than fire protection for what
we already had. Even at that the only
Jexcuse for building: the barraeks—that
the men housed off the campus might be
taken care of the

—_____—])

Owing to the fact that last week's Davidsonian was two days late
in appearing on the campus this issue will contain but four pages. A
return to its accustomed size will b> made next week, however.
Ui) pelea eee

The first issue of the Davidson Cullege Magazine for the college year
of 1921-22 is unusually attractive both in appearance and in content, and
its editors are tos be congratulated on their success in this too much |
neglected phase of our campus ie

From the number of candidates who answered: the first call for)
basketball “practice, it is evident that there will be a hot race for places |
on this year’s varsity five.

on campus—was |

more registrations and even more rooms

enrollment even though each successive

fate : |
class dwindled to much less than half its |
|original size before graduation.

Some classes have 75 men in them,!
much too great a number to be com-|
\fortable in any one room and too many |
|

jfor any one professor.

Dy
THE LYCEUM COURSE AT DAVIDSON.

Excessive num-|
|bers in the Freshman class (this cause)
supplemented, doubtless, by the poor!
preparation. of a_number—of-the Fresh-,
men) and not enough professors for the?
{number of students admitted, have made

jit necessary this fall to start compulsory

MONG the several forms of amusement enjoyed at Davidson, per-
haps none is more pleasant 62 profitable than that found in the
Lyceum numbers which are presented here from time to time.

In former years it was customary for the Y. M. C. A. to undertake the| : ; :
task of providing for these entertainments, but. for some reason this | 0@ching classes in the evenings and to
practice was-eliminated from the list of activities supported by that of GEHL Le Bssistants folneye chetue
ranization, Since that time it has been only through the efforts of a/0! the coaching classes in order to get
few enterprising individuals that the student bod jthe men to pass their courses.
to enjoy these programs, |
In doing this these men have rendered their fellows a service which}
few on the campus appreciate at its real value. Not only have they!
been furnishing a means of recreation to the students, but they have done
So at a price within the reach of all, and at the same time they have!
steadily improved the quality of the talent which has appeared here.
This last fact in itself should be sufficient proof that the lyeeum‘is not|
being presented here only for the personal profits of those in charge.

y has been privileged |
£ ,s.) In other words, our growth has been al
superficial one of late, Yet, even now in)
the talk of a money-raising campaign to
overcoine the of last week and!
carry us forward we hear of new dor- |
mitories in addition tO the Chambers re-
placement, with the idea—judging from}
the past—of enrolling even more than |
500 students, and, with it all, no talk of |
fire protection. We hear that Davidson |
is to be prepared to take care of more
men when there are already more here
jeiiag are really prepared for-college and
more than can be assimilated and can

loss

In spite of these considerations, however, these men are not re=!
ceiving the proper support fromcither students or townspeople.
Shearer hall was hardly half filled for the performance of Mr. Ratto last
Friday night, although the entertainment he presented was one of the
hest ever seen at Davidson, Unless the remaining programs are het-
ter attended than the last, it is certain that the quality of our lyceum pecome acquainted
numbers must be lowered in the coming year. Surely it is to the interest! and With the
of the student body to see that the present high standard of entertain-
ment is maintained. ee hele |

|
|

with another
professors and thus be
jbrought in line with the ideals that)
have made_Davidson.

It is difficult even with five hundred |
jmen to keep up the standard of David-
son in the old days when the strong men |
of our Church and country were de-|
veloped here. Yea, it is not only dif-|

one

D.

RUMPLE’S GOOD EXAMPLE.

Several times this fall The Davidsonian has mentioned the advis-}
ability of certain hours at night being set apart as a study period. This

i . }ficult but it is not being done. With)
plan did not meet with general approval on the campus, however, prob- : eel
bivt the Treason That Such a aystem would tomlntent itl imore- than five hundred the situation}
; 2 as q such a syste ’ se 2 y lees :
ably tor the ree ‘ ela Ge eh ou SoTL OR LCHLCHCAAWLULI ET TE eeevOne el Money is needed and

the personal liberty of the students, and the subjest was dropped. Now |
that the loss of our main dormitory has reduced us: to such“crowded |
quarters, there is unquestionably aneed for some concerted action on|
the part of the students to make study easier, and the inmates of Rum-
ple have set a splendid example for the rest of the student body.

These men have come together and entered into a gentlemen’s
agreement that between the hours of 8 and 11 at night there will be no
unnecessary visiting or noise in Rumple. This will make it possible for
those who desire to study to do so without fear of disturbance, while
their.less studious neighbors, will*have little excuse left for idleness. ,

This is the first attempt of the kind to be made at Davidson and
it will be watched with a great deal of interest by both the friends and
enemies of the plan. Whether it will prove a success or not is yet to
be seen, but at any rate the Rumpleites have shown a splendid spirit, and
one which. their fellows can well afford to emulate.

Mecklenburg Hotel

OPPOSITE DEPOT
O. C. ANDREW, Mgr.

The Hotel of Comfort

“200 Rooms
150 With Private Bath

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

brushed aside and the books opened for) (jod keep Davidson Colle

in town secured and filled, in a seem- or even from
ingly frantic effort to inerease the en- j

VOLUNTEER UNION CONVEN-

ED IN CHARLOTTE ON
SATURDAY.

Last Saturday afternoon and Sunday
the third district of the North Carolina
Volunteer Union held a conference at
Queens College. Representatives were
sent by the Mitchell, Lenoir, and David-
son bands. Then, of course, the entire
Queens band was present to liven up
things. Davidson was represented by
Bitzer and Cunningham. W. W. Moore
and J. P. Price, who,were in Charlotte on
a deputation, also attended the last part
of the conference.

The purpose of the conference was to
stimulate friendship and co-operation
between the bands of this district. In-
teresting and profitable discussions were
made on the value of volunteer band
deputation work and on how to go about
establishing bands in colleges where
there are .none. The conference was
really a get-together meeting where
common problems and plans were dis-
cussed,

On Sunday evening the delegates went
to the A. R. P. Church to hear Moore
and Price speak.

North Carolina was divided into three
districts at the last state convention.
Miss Myrtle Williamson, the president
of this district, is also president of the
Queens Y. W. C. A. and Volunteer Band.

needed badly at Davidson, but more
students are not needed and more will
weaken Davidson's

though we

usefulness, even
might have two hundred
professors and twenty dormitories.
God bless Davidson’s splendid faculty
and God give Davidson the
make her equipment what is necessary,
in the way of dormitories, classrooms,
laboratories, professors, athletic equip-
ment, and fire protection, to -properly
take care of her present number; but
ge from trying
rs any other college
trying to train all the
young men in out Church in one college,
which would mean such an increase in
numbers that Davidson would not
Davidson but some new thing devoid of
the close fellowship and the high ideals
of life and scholarship which
Davidson in the days gone by.

means to

to outstrip in numbe

made

Chemical.

be!

Guilford Dramatic Club to Offer French
Comedy.

Guilford College, N. C., Nov. 30—“The

Art of Being Bored,” a three-act comedy

of French life will be given by the
Dramatic Club, Saturday evening,
December 3d, in the auditorium. The

business management is in the hands of
the Y. W. C. A. as the proceeds will be
given to that organization.

Junior-Senior Debate at Elon Won By

Juniors.
Elon College, N. C., Nov. 29.—The an-
nual linguistic combat between the

Junior and Senior classes was staged
here last Wednesday evening in the col-
lege auditorium when representatives
from the classes of '22 and ’23 met on the
public platform to debate the query,
Resolved: “That Historically, Morally,
and Economically Disarmament by In-
ternational Agreement is Now Impera-
tive.” Those upholding the affirmative
were Messrs. L. J. Perry, W. B. Wicker
and Miss Irene Golf, from the Junior
class. Those supporting the Negative
were Messrs. J. D. Messick, R. S. Rain-
ey and Miss Mary Miller from the Sen-
ior class. The Judges rendered a two to
one decision in favor of the affirmative.

Guilford Clubs Within State Are to
Celebrate.

Guilford College, N. C., Nov. 30.—Fri-
|day, December 2d will be observed as
Guilford Day by the different County
Clubs throughout the state. Banquets
are being planned by some of these
clubs, as a means of reviving the Guil-
| ford spirit. Students and faculty are co-
operating with the clubs in making the
{day a success.

Dramatic Entertainment by Literary
| Society.

Elon College, N. C., Nov. 29.—The
| Philologian. Literary Society of Elon
| College gave its annual public entertain-
/ment here on the evening of Thanks-
|giving Day. A cast of talented come-
jdians and actors from the Philologian
society presented to a large audience
the comedy entitled “The Morning
After.” This society has been noted in
the past for its successful entertain-
ments but many of those who enjoyed
the two hours and a half of fun and
laughter last evening declared that the
program was even better than former
programs given by the society.

LET US INVEST YOUR FUNDS IN FIRST MORTGAGE LOANS

at six per cent. We guarantee title, principal and interest,

W. S. ALEXANDER, Pres.

| SOUTHERN REAL ESTAE, LOAN & TRUST CO.

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

and Coaches fully realize the im

portan
the Spalding,

Reach and Wrig

18 E. Trade St.

EQUIPMENT FOR EVERY SPORT

Fall Sports

Football, Basketball, Volleyball, Gymnasium Outfitting. Physical Directors

Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.

A. L, Faul, Mgr.

ce of correct equipment.

Our goods ere
he & Ditson.

You know them.

Phone 902

YOUR FURNISHINGS !~

Where do you buy them?

POPULA

We can fill your needs at
oF

R PRICES

A. Pittle

Oppsite the So

uthern Mfg. Club

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

ERRRRARRRARRARRLRRRLARRRARRKARRKAERRURRRRRER RRR RRR NE ERY

The Observer

Printing House

Incorporated

Printing an

d Engraving

. Observer Building

33 South Church
Street

. B.R. Cates, Manager

Charlotte, N. C.
