PREPARE LET'S
FOR BEAT
EXAMS HE STATE
FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON
Vol. VII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON. N. C.. APRIL 29. 1921. No. 29

Press Association Meets

With Local Publication

Thirteen College ¢ Publications Repre-
sented at First Annual
Convention

The detegates to the second conven-
von oi the newly organized North Caro-
lina Collegiate Press Association ar-
rived in Davidson fast lriday aiter-j
noon. They were met at the station by |
representatives of The Davidsonian and
tle Magazine and were eseorted to the
Phitanthropie literary Society Hall,
where they registered. There were ap-
proximarely 25 delegates. about a dozen
of whom were young ladies

This association was organized at a.
mecung held in Chapel Nill last Feb-
tuary sth. Eleven of the leading col-
leges of the state were there represent:
ed. M this time an invitation was ex-
tended to the association by the dele-
rates irom Davidson to hold its next
niecting at Davidson.

Friday Evening’s Session.

The tirst session was held Vriday eve-

ning at 7130 o'clock in Phi hall. Carroll

W. Weathers (Wake Foresu aeted as.

president in the absence of Eris Cas-
sell. The mecting was opened hy a
prayer by Dr. Hood. Professor Currie
thon delivered the address of welcome
which was interrupted several times by
laughter and applause. He brought out
the iact that the intellecral aristocracy
of the North Carolina colleges was be-
ing entertained at Davidson since jour-
nalism calls upon the
than does any other profession.

Guests.” said Professor Currie, “Aal-
ways bring pleasure to their entertain-
ers. It they do not cause pteasure when
they come they cause it when they der
part. in this case it gives us great
pleasure to weleome you to Davidson,
and since we know that you were chosen
to represent your. college newspapers
and magazines, we know that you cont-
pose the intellecrual aristocracy of the
colleges of North Carolina.”

This address of welcome was respond-
ed to by Carrol W. Weathers, who ex:
pressed the gratitude of the association
at being invited to Davidson, the home

(Continued on page 3)

POLITY CLUB SECURES
WELL-KNOWN SPEAKER

Mr. Frederick Moore, oi the Justimnte
oi International Education of New York.
will speak to the Polity Club, Briday.
Aprit ooth. Flis subject with be wThe
Problem of Japan in China and Siberia;
the Anglo-Japanese Alliance.”

Mr. Moore has established himself as
one of the most able newspaper corre-
spondents and journalists in this coun-°
tuy. Fte has traveled a great deal, hav-

ing lived for extended periods in various ‘

parts of the world. He is well iniormed:
as to the state relations of Japan and,

intelleet: more.

j

|

Sunday Club Com-

ing Here

Deputation to Conduct Church and Y. Fricker Wins First Place in Mile-- Ormond and Morris of Davidson Vic-

M. C. A. Services Sunday

AX most interesting and helpial *¥™
series is promised ts on next Sundiv.
At chis meenng three of Atlantais but
tress men, who are members of ‘the Hilly
Sunday Business Men's Cluh, sre to
speak. ‘Thev are Messrs. Fredevich 1.

> Willis, who is an agent for the North
western Jiire Insurance Conipany: Janes
Morton, who is secretary of the Dilly
Sumdav Club of Advanta, and Mil.
Thrower, who is ongaged in the real es
tate Imsiness and is also president o1
tire club) The coming of the fwo urs
menvoued is lonked forward ro with
especial. pleasure ‘hy those who were

siortunate cnough to hear thein at the

vLaymeiis Convention reecnaly helt om
« Greenville.

In addition to condueung the %Y"
rseryice these men will be in charge of
‘both the morning antl evening church
scrvices and will hold a personal w irk
ers? conierence some time dime the”
afternoon.

. It is very probable that a union service} Ireeord time of ch nunr

twill be held with the Methodist Qhureh:
son Sunday evening.
; The theme of these services will ‘be
"What Laymen Can Do for Christ.”
This Billy Sunday Club, which is com
+ posed entirely of laymen, is accomplish.
ing great things in several of onr South-
ern cities. A series of excellent serv-

China. He has made a large number of ices from which much good = should
lectures on the condition of affairs in] COME. MAY justly be expected here next

Turkey and Russia, one of them being:
on the alliance of Islam and the Bol-'
sheviki. Mr. Moore served during the.
Peace Conterence in France as an Amer-
ican correspondent, and has just re-
turned from a trip abroad. Thus he
brings to the diseussion of international
affairs a wealth of first-hand informa.
tion.

It is the aim of
have several speakers each year. Last
year Mr. Arthur P, Newman gave a lec-
ture on “The Organization and Problem
of the British Empire,” and Baron Koff
spoke on “The Situation in Russia.” The
club considers itself very fortunate in
having Mr. Moore to speak to them this
year.

the Polity Club to,

Sunday.
D

- MAGAZINE OFFICERS FOR
NEW YEAR ARE ELECTED

} On Tuesday of last weck the student
‘body elected George H. Cornelson edi-
tor-in-chief and E. A. Nash business
manager ‘of the Davidson College Maga-
zine. The students of Davidson have
been publishing this paper for several
years with much success, The appoint-
ment of the staff has not been complet-
ed, but its membership to date is as
follows:

D. L.
chief;

Mahood, assistant editor- in-
James Sprunt, exchange editor;

(Continued on page 3)

One Game Won and Two

Lost During Last Week

Elon Defeated in Pretty Game—Trin-
ity and Citadel Win Handily

Tuesday, Ure 12th, on Sprunt Field. the
“old Wildeat team showed Kilon her dust.
\Ithaugh mable to do anvching more

han tie the preyious game. Davidson
s. awed that she ontranks Filon by de»
.teaimg her team 3.to t in che most
hotly contested fray seen on Sprunt
_ Field this vear. The game was mostly a
pitchers’ battle except for several spee-
tacular hitung streaks which usually re-
sulted m no runs. Roth pitchers, Miley
and Barker, pitched good ball, Miley
notelassed his opponent somewhat by
striking out six men and allowing the
Flon stuggers only six hits, while Da-
\utson's suck artists managed to cop Ut
Tut ont Harker.

lhe escitoment started in the first in-
nmiig = Fion was nest wp and with no
nen on anid one ont the simation looked
Pall damped the nent batter, but

~ NC TIONS

Hard Contest at
Clemson

Clemson’s Low Hurdle Rec-
ord Broken

The mit track inert of de soamon was teat ww the hands of the Tray thib in

diepped oro Clemaai Jast fanle arte
woo In ste or the S23 ro 2; eeare, th:
icet Was verw mceresting aur nne Clem
eur teerad was broken

Dayri an was ciehtl handicapped bv
Lasnire only 10 mon entire as conyra:¢ |
fo the 1% a Clemson These 10, how
ety, pat wp some sul Bppordtnon aruj

all of tie events wore Cl ely enntc tee
Out ot tie tp tret phece. the Trent su
cecded a wearrony 12

Amon oti Wildeat traci aris!

Trickor was the only trst place wmner.
Fie vame cur ahead mo thy nate mn,
sho ch followrd by Me Bride. al o af Da
siffson  Mefirrde ran agorher ead race
wm the meo enh ¢sera  Denmaton and
Ynck afso did wand wart aml hawed
promist oF nec woounre | omect.
Clemson's Fow bardie ecard was brot.
en by Ware This thet Tiert onth
vtanced Owons and Dich, making the
aT As. CX -HrOOns.
While at Clemson the Drevidson team

was given the best of mreatmont and all

jrewrned with a higlt regard tor Clem

son. They preiiet erent things for Cem

son's excellent trach snail. especially

when under such a good coach and back:

ed by such an enthusiastic student hody.
Results.

1oo yard dash 1st. Salky (Clemson),
10 4:5: 2nd, Wade (Clemson); 3rd, Den
niston (1). C.)

Mile ist. Fricker GD. Co. 4:50 1-5?
ond, MeDride CD. Cas ard. Cannon (Cy

High jump ist, Owens (C.2, 5 feet 4
inches; 2nd, Gentry and Erwin ded.

Shot put-Gilmer (C), 38 feet 5 1-2
inches: and, Knight (cD. Co
Low Hurdtes Wade (C), 2725; and,

Owens (C.); ard. Dick (D. C.)
Paul vault—1st, Bryan (C.), 10 feet, 9

inches; and, Streibech (. C.)

#20 yard dash—rst. Salky (C.), 23 see-
onds; 2nd, Denniston (D. C:)

Hali mile—ist, Kilgore (C.), 2:17 4-5;

2nd, Gower (C.): ard, Galloway (D.C)

Diseus-—1st, Colbert (C.), feet 7
inches; 2nd, Gilmer (C.), 113 feet, 4 1-2
inches.

127

Delegates to the First Convention of the North Carolina Press Association, at Davidson, April 22 and 23.
Photo by Mb wane:

Members “Atlanta. I Billy Wildcat Track Team Loses Trinity Wins in Tennis

’

» Mbratten suipled, putting diree men on
Land no out Underwood knocked a iast
Tone 19 Katch, who prompley gobbled it
| uf: and prevented a. score hv Blon until
the neat inning Ratchiord made the
utst counter dor Davidson in the second
halt or the Best frame. Ite singled, and
on Browary single advaneed to third and

Tournament Here

Monday later to heme on a wild throw and a
peor cartel. Thinrs looked prosperons
(Continued on page 2)
tors in Singles Matches Ce
—_—- CALENDAR
The Dayidaon Kacquerers sutremd di [' Thmalav 3 30 p m., Baseball, U or ¢
‘  ~s © vs. Davidson; at Columina. *

er{'  Y t5 Pht Taterary Socrety. ‘
Accables Memday atternaan, while tie|' 7 30 Movies: Thontas Meighan in. *
» thouch a. eyualby unnrested 1 “The Prmee Chap” Adinission 2s¢ *

Hiway quarter, were brought too af! Toube 3 89pm, Baseball, Rysjane

will plaved and koonly cant ted cet.

staged
tbe

fe mn games 22 ' x. Davidson, at Chesrer. :

fle Davidson club plaved a stcary. 7+. Pio m. Meeting Phble Clas. ?
eae throinshont and wrod heal woth * | eaders ‘
awe showo uw all the imatche Sorpn m, Davidsan Merret Ochate °

Flic Eciiney quartet was amor. prime?! at Colcore. .
« wa shown on tke omamer thes took §  F00p m, Keporrers’ Cinb Misaine. *
the dothh tu the smai¢s, however, ' Saturday 330 p.m, Track Meet.’
caer met Cron mateh and acre held to © Davidson vs. Ul or 8 C..0 Daved *
a Gane we faric * sen .

Bradley and Oipwetst, or tire Wildeat "7 Sop mM. Movies: Cor nares Tin ¢

team. douwon dicted rare fall whale © Weve im “jo East" ‘
Wiener amit tor well efasred ter the (| tro Bom. bm darerany sw ats .
erat ‘ Sunday 1000 4 om. Milde stendv

Dasidson ww. rapte cated by Merri *  Clasres, «
Cormameham, Wradiex and Ormond, 289mm. Dawder Chee Sun *
C, white Eruuin wa- represented bv ‘ dav Sehoni Clas ‘
Wlitener, | BB, Commactt,. ¢ Co dr, Hack WB Pm, AV" Serle Ve pesers ft

2

by three meadeess ot Velanta Id-
* Iv Sumday Cub ‘
‘ Monday 3.20 p wm laoebul, NOC
* Stare vs Danidson. at Davidson

*  pyo p. ar Tebn Vo Lomax. Con. *
boy Sones: Sinarer Fall

rey. © W. and Shinn.)

Summa of pamen: Dewble. Nirad
Jey and t utuengham vs Whitener and
Cornwell, gy 702 Ormond and Morris
\ Shinn and Alavkimy, 407 7 9

Single : Readies vo. Whitley, “Tuesday pas pom, Mestine of
143.68; Cunningham ys Cornwell. 40: , Pol, Cub so

t Lo.

‘
97%

06: Ormend vs Slunn, +3: 0.2; Marris
vs Hackney. 6:71 6 736 3:

Koterees: W. 2 Dunlap, Dwight
Chalmers. J. R Melseldin, and A. P, Or-
mond.

A team consisting of Nradley and Cun.
ningham invaded Greensboro Tuesday,
playing yarious N. C. reams in the State
tournament.

a)

BAND HAS FOUR-DAY TRIP TO
SEVERAL NEAR-BY POINTS
The Dasidsan College Band returned

to the eampus Friday alter a foursday

uin through the State. One of the most

“onioyable rcatures of the trip was the
Pryoris Gand concert in Charlotte Bri-
Ware dav morning, all of the Davidson musi-
crans attending

The band rendered concerts at Mitch-

ell College, in Statesville: Lenoir Col-

en te ee —_—" ec

High hurdles, ¥20 yards—-rst.
(CQ, 17 2:5: and, Sereibich (D. CD

Two miles — Ist, Nownean
Ws11 1-5; and, McHryde M. C)

(C2,

440 yards—rist, Redfern(C.), 53 3:3: 2nd, lege. in’ Hickory: Lineolnton Uigh
Denniston (D.C) Sehoot of Lincolnton. and = S’ iron
Javelin—tst, Gilmer ¢C.), 145 feet rr Church, near Charlotte.
inches; 2nd, Garden (C.), 141 feet mr in.» The members of the musical rgani-

Broad jump—tst, Owens (C), 2 feet. zation pronounce the trip one of the
5 1-2 inches; 2nd, Williams, 20 feet r 1-4 most enjoyable and successini of the
inches. | year. Everywhere they were greeted

Total: Clemson, 83; D. C., 2. iby large and appreciative audiences.

Ss

YOU CANNOT AFFORD TO MISS BLUE RIDGE!
