CLASS FOOT-
BALL PRAC-

TICE BEGINS

THED.

Vi_

‘f

SONIAN |B

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. VIII.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.. JANUARY 14, 1921.

No. 14

Basketball Practice Begins| Marriages

for 1921 Season

Three-Letter Men Form Nucleus for
This Year's Team—First
Game Jan. 27

Upon the reopening of the colleges of
the country after the Christmas holidays,
the eyes of sportdom are turned upon
the national indoor pastime. Even so
the interests of the student body are be-
ginning to be hinged upon the 1921 bas-
betball team and it’s success. There
will be quite a few big games on the
hill this winter with other colleges and
universities which will afford all the
thrills that the game is capable of pro-
ducing.

Since ‘college opened last September
the varsity men who returned have been
reduced in number from four to three.
The regulars left at the present are
Captain Lewis Schenck, Bill Roberts,
and Birchie Romefelt, who will form the
nucleus about which will be formed the
hopes and aspirations of a conquering
Wildcat basketball team. Practice has
been under way since before the holi-
days started, but things settled down in
grim earnest after the return last week.
Every night in the gymnasium the old
and new exert theif best efforts to win
a place among the select five who will
represent the college. The first game
will not be played until the last of this
month and in the meantime a suitable
quint will be formed to meet the best
that the South can boast.

Last year the team was without the
services of Captain Schenck most of the
season as his knee was injured in the
first game sufficiently to keep him ov
crutches several weeks. However now
he is in the Best of condition and will
play his usual steady game at guard.

Romefelt performed both at guard and
center last year and proved equally ef-
fective in both positions. He will hold
down the center job on this year’s team
from the way things are going at pres-
ent.

‘Roberts was a star forward on last
year’s team and scored fully half the
points chalked up to Davidson's credit.
Better work still is expected of him this
season. ‘

John Schenck, who was captain of the
1920 team at Clemson, will most probably
play one of the forward positions in his
efficient and capable way. Among those
who made the varsity trips last year
Doubles, the inter-class point win-
ner; Crawford, Price, and Sig Shepherd
stand out prominently, white Ormand, A.
C., Mauze, and several others are back
again working with redoubled energy for
the places they did not quite succeed in

(Continued on page 6)

x* *¢ & *© © * £ * RH € FH

* 1921 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE. ‘

* Sept. 24: Davidson vs. University of *
* Virginia at Charlottesville, Va. *
* October. 1: Davidson vs. P. C. at *
* Davidson, N. CG *
* Oct. 8: Davidson vs. Georgia Tech at *
* Atlanta, Ga.
* Oct. 15: Davidson vs. Wake Forest *
* at Charlotte, N. C.
* Oct. 22; Davidson vs. Wofford at *
* Davidson, N. C. bd
* Oct. 29: Davidson vs. University of *
* Richmond at Richmond, Va. *
* Nov. 5: Davidson vs. N. C. State at *

* Charlotte, N.C bd
‘* Nov. 12: Davidson vs. University of *
* N. CG at Winston-Salem or Char- *
*  lotte. *

* Nov. 18: Davidson vs. Elon at David- *
* son, N. CG
‘* Nov. 25: Davidson vs. Furman at *
* Greenville, S. C bd
2 * * * © © © © Re ee

Grey and Hengeveld
Duly Celebrated

ing for Life Work
Conference

Davidson’s Athletics Instructors Fall| Prominent Davidson Alumnus to be

Before Cupid’s Deadly Darts

BLAKE-GREY.

Among the social events of the past
holiday season was the wedding of Miss
Helen Nell Blake, of Greenwood, S. C.,,
to Mr. Hugh Morton Grey, of Davidson,
N. C. The ceremony took place in the
First Presbyterian Church of the for-
mer city at § :30 o'clock on the afternoon
of December 22d.

The church was beautifully decorated
in red and green in keeping with the
Christmas tide. Holly and cédar over a
white background set off by lighted
tapers in cathedral candlesticks partly
hid by decorations around the altar
where the couple knelt, made an at-
tractive scene. Beautiful vocal and in-
strumental solos were rendered by
friends of the bride while the guests
were assembling.

Members of the bridal party were:
Misses Mary Parks Grey and Thelma
Railey, bridesmaids. Major F. F. Blythe
and Captain Karl Coleman, groomsmen.
Misses Elizabeth Grey, Elephore Hood,
Mr. Otis Blake, and Captain Hearst
Coleman attendants. .

Little Miss Mary Gordon Green the
ringbearer, stood near her father, Dr. J.

‘B. Green, who performed the ceremony.

Mrs. Paul E. Bryson, the dame, carry-
ing red roses, was followed by the
flower girls, Alice Frances McKellar and
Pattie Porter. Miss Clara Blake, the
maid of honor, also carried an armful
of red roses.

The bride was given in marriage by
her father, meeting the groom and his
best man, Major G. L. Dickson, before
the altar.

The bride was beautifully attired in a
wedding gown of satin, trimmed in
Duchess lace and she carried a shower
bouquet.

Mrs. Grey is the youngest daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. R. P. Blake, of Green-
wood, and is a very popular and charm-
ing bride. She is the grand-niece of the
late John Rennie Blake, who for many
years was chairman of the Davidson
College faculty.

Mr. Grey is football coach at Davidson
College and for many years has had a
prominent place in the athletic annals of
that college.

Coach and Mrs. Grey will reside in
Davidson and will receive the hearty

-welcome and congratulations not only

of the townspeople but also of the entire
college student body.

pD—_——.
STRICKLAND-HENGEVELD.

Old shoes and rice were much in de-
mand in Waycross, Ga., last Saturday
night. This was due to the marriage of
Miss Ruth Strickland of that city to
Coach Hengeveld. Although a quiet
home wedding—it is rumored that the

*\city will be riceless and shoeless for

several days—owing to the downpour of

*Ilthe above mentioned articles on the

happy couple.

Davidson looks forward with much
pleasure and interest to the stay of Mr.
and Mrs. Hengeveld in the villagg. Coach
has made many friends in Davidson due
to the thorough and earnest way in
which he has taken charge of the public
schools. His popularity as a coach is
well-known and townspeople and stu-
dents alike eagerly await the opportu-

*/ nity of meeting his wife.

The bride and bridegroom expect to
make their home with Mrs. Black upon
their arrival in Davidson.

Here for Four Days This Month

Beginning on Thursday, January 2oth,
“Tolly” Thompson of the class of 1905
will be here. to conduct a Life Work Con-
ference. Twice before the Y. M. C. A.
has tried to bring him here to speak to
us and considers itself especially for-
tunate in securing his services for four
days. His conference, which starts on
the 20th, continues through Sunday the
23d, and‘in that time he will make four
public addresses to students, and one
day, Saturday, will be reserved entirely
for personal interviews with him.

From the time that he entered David-
son College, Dr. Thompson has made a
very enviable record for himself. Be-
ginning college life with the class of
1905, he soon became prominent on the
campus and popular among his fellow
students. Before he graduated his name
was known in every branch of college
life. He was president of his class, its
senior year, president of the Eumenian
Literary Society, for two years editor of
the Quips and Cranks, editor of the
Davidson College Magazine, captain of
the scrub baseball team. After finish-
ing at the Seminary, he began his work
as a minister and soon attained the suc-
cess that his college career had shown
would come to him in later life.

While he was pastor of the Presbyte-
rian Church at Mobile, Ala. the World
War came on and he took up duties in
the Y. M. C. A, at Camp Green, near
Charlotte. He became so well liked in
the city that the First Presbyterian
Church there extended a call to him.
Refusing this he later went to Nashville,
Tenn., and is now a professor at Union
Seminary. He was a delegate to this
past General Assembly in Charlotte, be-
cause of his splendid work there he is
considered by some as the clearest
thinker in the Southern Church.

Twice before Dr. Thompson has
spoken at Davidson, once on the Red
Cross and later in behalf of a war
memorial to be raised to the Davidson
men killed in the great war. Mr. E. E.
Lane will be associated with him next
week to watch the progress made here.
His report will be made to the Southern
Presbyterian Church to be used in shap-
ing the general campaigns it is conduc-
ting in the south.

Mr. Lane while here a few days ago,
stated that the European countries, as a
result of theit enormous war losses in
men and money, are forced to shift a
large share of the burden of Foreign
Missions on us. He also stated the fact
that there are already over 200 vacancies
in our own Southern Presbyterian pul-
pits here at home. As far as possible in
his talks and interviews, Dr. Thompson
is going to take up the duties of every
profession or business in which Christ-
ian men will engage. For this reason an
interview with him will be of the great-
est benefit to every student at David-
son College and it is hoped that no one
will lose this opportunity to see him
while he is here.

D——___.

The Misses Schofield were called to
South Carolina by the death of their
aunt, Mrs. Clifford, the widow of the late
Dr. Clifford, for many years a member
of the board of trustees of Davidson.
Mrs. Clifford died at Chester.

Among those present at an elaborate
house party given by Dr. and Mrs. J. W.
Moore were Mr. and Mrs. John Moore
and son, of Winston-Salem; Miss Mc-
Alpine and Master McAlpine, of Japan;
Mrs. McE!lwaine, of Japan, and Mr. Ray,
of Richmond.

of Coaches|Dr. W. T. Thompson Com-| Dayidson Debaters Win Unanimous

Decision from Randolph-Macon Team

C. K. Brown and J. H. McKeithen Represented Davidson in Second Contest
of Series—Excellent Preparation Shown by All Debaters

On Tuesday evening, December 7th, Messrs. G. R. Quarles and L.
W. Diggs, who had once come from Randolph-Macon to secure Da-
vidson’s debating scalp, were met by C. K. Brown and J. Harold Mc-

Keithan and went away sadder bu wiser men.

The subject for debate

was, “Resolved, That the Federal Government fora period of twenty
years, prohibit the immigration of Japanese laborers to this country or

any of its possessions,”

The judges were Col. A. H. Boyden, of
Salisbury and Messrs. Walter Clark, J.
L. Jones, F. M. Redd, and L. B. Vree-
land, of Charlotte. The time-keepers
were Messrs. W. E. Leftwick, of Ran-
dolf-Macon and A. M. Mitchell of David-
son.

The debate was opened by “C. K.” ih
a masterful presentation. He reviewed
the history of the question and gave four
reasons why Japanese should be kept
out for twenty years: the difference in
their moral, mental, and religious ideals
from ours; the fact that these ideals re-
main the same when they are in Amer-
ica; their native instinct rendering
assimilation impossible; and the fact
that the instinct that guides us in our
feeling toward the Japanese is inherent
in our life and cannot be changed. He
repeated each point as he finished his
argument for it and then called to mind
the points previously made and adding
the last-named point to it. His argu-
ments were clearly outlined and vigor-
ously supported and his words well
chosen and spoken with an evenness
that was very pleasing, his speech be-
ing recognized as the most polished of
the evening.

Mr. Quarles showed much study of
the subject and his points were good
though not as forcefully presented as

with Davidson upholding the affirmative.

they might have been. He seemed to
experience some nervousness. He
argued the acceptability of the Japan-
ese and presented counter proposals. ©

McKeithan argued that America is
willing to help the Japanese who are
here now but that to avoid cither the
destruction of the Caucasian race by
iutermarriage or a caste system that
would destroy democracy it is necessary
to shut out these foreigners.

Mr. Diggs argued that to close our
doors as outlined would be unjust, un-
sound, un-American, and un-Christian.
Here again the arguments were good but
not convincingly delivered.

Of the speeches on rebuttal that of
McKeithan stood out strongly. In a
rapid-fire and sharply pointed, though
courteous, way he met the arguments of
the negative by other quotations from
the very writers and speakers and au-
thorities they had mentioned. Such a
turning back of points against those who
had made them was very effective and
strengthened McKeithan’s impression on
his hearers, who felt that this rebuttal
had much to do with the decision of the
judges.

The Randolph-Macon men made a
good impression by their spirit in the
contest and Davidson will be glad to
have them again. :

x

D. M. Chalmers Welcomed |= 192! QUIPS AND CRANKS.

Back to Campus as
“Y” Secretary

Place Left Vacant by Bob Miles to be
Occupied by Last Year’s Presi-
dent of the Y. M. C. A.

When the announcement was made to
the student body that Dwight Chalmers,
‘20, was to return in the Spring as “Y”
Secretary, the heart of every man pres-
ent was filled with joy and confidence,
for all who knew Dwight knew that he
stands for all that is best and right in
true Christian living.

To the old men no introduction is
needed, but to those who have not been
a member of the student body long, it
will be well to let them know that our
new “Y" Secretary, besides attaining the
highest scholastic and general literary
honors given by our college, is also a
wearer of the “D,” having played Varsity
basketball during two seasons, ‘19 and
‘20, being captain of the squad in ‘20.
Among other honors it might be men-
tioned that he was on the Honor Roll
for four years; a member of the Mimir
Society, a local Honorary Scholastic
Fraternity, similar to the National Phi
Beta Kappa Fraternity; also president
of the Y. M. C. A,, and the holder of sev-
eral oratorical medals.

Above and beyond all this, Dwight is
the “Buddie” and friend of every fellow
on the hill, and is always ready to help a
fellow who is in trouble and needs a
friendly pat on the back. Do you know
him? If you don't, you must have been
living in the tank!!!

Dr. Byers went to Charlotte and Hick-
ory during the holidays.

There is nothing so discouraging as to
read a great deal of the wonderful mate-
rial about something you are going to
buy and then find out with keen disap-
pointment that what you purchased was
just about 40 per cent shy.

People want to know all about what
they intend to purchase and they ex-
pect it to be built upon the truth.

The success of some of America’s
greatest business establishments has
been based upon the value of underes-
timating rather than overestimating
what they have to sell. So when the
country storekeeper, Deacon Smith, gets
up in prayer meeting and says loud
enough for the congregation to hear,
“Oh Lord what a miserable sinner I am,”
no one gets excited. They know that the
Deacon does not mean it but is using
the technical language of the prayer
meeting.

But suppose the old Deacon yelled out
loud enough so that all could hear, “Oh

(Continued on page 5)

re

*“ * € *& * € & &

; WHAT, WHEN, AND WHERE. .

* Thursday—6:45 p m., Phi Society *
* meeting. bd
* Friday—6:45 p. m., Davidsonian Re- *
* porters Club meeting. *
* Saturday—6:45 p. m., Eu. Society *

* meeting. *
* 6:45 p. m., First show of movies. *
* 8:15 p. m., Second show. bd
* Sunday—1o:00 a. m., Bible Classes. *
© 6:15 p. m., “Y” Service. bd

* Monday—2:00 p. m., Absence Commit *

* tee meets. All heavy sleepers in- *
*  vited to be present. .
bd . RSVP. ¢
*. * © © @ © © ¢e 8 8

| LET'S GET OFF TO A GOOD START THIS NEW YEAR
