Everybody
Go to
Charlotte!

THEDAVI

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

SONIAN

Ask a Girl
For Senior

Week!

—————

Vol. IX. .

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.. NOVEMBER 3, 1921.

No. 9

Collegiate Press Association Is |

Royally Entertained at N. C.C. W.

Fifteen Publications Send Delegates---Mahood, Cornelson, McKeithen and Gamble

Davidson Golfers Defeat
Salisbury on Local Links

Three Good Matches Played—Salis- |

* bury Desires Return Match.

Richmond University Tied
| By Wildcat Machine 14-14

Represent Local. Papers---Next Meeting at Wake Forest in April.

From last Friday evening until just before midnight Saturday the
young ladies of the North Carolina College for Women, at Greensboro,
acted as hostesses to the representatives of fifteen of the seventeen col-
lege publications which are members of the North: Carolina Collegiate
Press Association, and to the Meredith College newspaper, received as a

new member of the association.

Miss Anne Cantell, Editor-in-chief of
The Carolinian, the weekly newspaper
of NC.C. W., and president of the Press
Association, was ably assisted inthe en-
tertainment by her own staff and re-
perters and by the general secretary of
the association, Miss Emeline Goforth,
of the N.C. C. W. Magazine, the Co-
raddi, These were supported enttftsias-
tically ‘by the thousand young ladies of
the college. The delegates were fur-
nished their meals in one of the two
immense dining halls, and the sensation
of being outnumbered at the ratio of
five hundred and fifty to six or eight
was a peculiar one for the young men
in attendance. :

Friday Evening.

In a few well-chosen words Miss Can-
trell welcomed the association’s largest
convention and bade the delegates work
and be merry.

Prof. E. C. Lindeman, of the N. C. C.
W. faculty, spoke on the “Function of a
College Publication.” He quite fulfilled
the three requirements which he said
should obtain in speaking to-a special-
ized audience, that of knowing, the sub-
ject spoken on, stating the ‘authority
for statements made, and speaking in
terse and precise language. His was
perhaps the most helpful of the whole
splendid list of contributions to the pro-
gram.

Professor Lindeman called to mind
the four types into which college publi-
cations are classified: the humorous pa-

per, as the Tar-Baby of the University
of North Carolina; the literary maga-
zine; the technical journals, as the Cor-
nell Agriculturist; and the newspaper,
weekly or daily. He then gave ten
functions of the- newspaper type: to
chronicle college events of timely in-
terest; to assist in creating college
spirit; to promote self-expression; to
elevate the standards of composition,
serving as an entity in itself and not
catering to or imitating the city news-
paper; to create in the minds of the
students an interest in state, national,
(Contined from page 2)

REV. LOCKE WHITE SPEAKS
AT “Y” HERE NEXT SUNDAY

Rey. Locke White, pastor of the Pres-
byterian Church in Blacksburg, Va., who
is under assignment to China as a mis-
sionary, will be the speaker of the even-
ing at the “Y” services Sunday. He will
lave for his subject, “A Young Man’s
Purpose.” Se

Mr. White graduated from Davidson
in the class of '13, with high honors. He
made the honor roll for three years, was
one year captain of the Varsity basket-
ball team, and was a member of the
track team. He was also prominent in
other circles, being at one time presi-
dent of the Phi Society and a member of
the “Y” cabinet. : ml

Mr. White is much admired and liked
by the V. P. I. students, among whom he
has done active work. It is with pleas-
ure that Davidson will hear one of her
favored and favorite alumni.

Doctor Henry Louis Smith
Tells of European Travel

Former Davidson President Delights |
Local Audiefice With Tales of
British Nobility and Other
Experiences. |
On last Monday evening Dr. Henry |
Louis Smith, a Davidson alumnus of na-!
tional repute and at present the presi-|
dent of Washington & Lee University,
delivered a lecture on “Glimpses of Eng-
lish Life,” which proved beth instruc-
tive and humorous.

last summer by the State of Virginia to
make an address at the unveiling of the,
statue of Washington which was placed |
in Trafalgar Square, in the heart of the!
city of London.
of the famous Houdin statue in the capi-
tol at Richmond. The Legislature of Vir-
ginia voted to present this replica to
the
tion of the hundred years of peace be-
tween the United States and Great Brit-
ain,

Dr. Smith’s party consisted of nine!
persons. They sailed for England last
June and returned to the United States
the first week of August. While in Eng-
land the members of the party were the
official guests’ of the British Govern-
ment.

Dr. Smith spoke in most glowing terms
of the great hospitality of the British
Government. There is a separate divis-
ion of the Department of the.Interior
known as the Hospitality Division. This |
division is under the supervision of Con-
way Davis, who spends $2,000,000 yearly
in the entertaining of Great Britain’s |
official guests. |

The American guests were housed in
London’s best hotel, where everything |
for their comfort was luxuriously sup-
plied. Three automobiles and four chauf-
feurs were placed at their disposal. One
of the chauffeurs arranged a daily sche-|
dule of drives. Every morning each
member of the party was supplied with
a mimeographed copy of that day’s en-
tertainment, including every happening
from early morning until midnight.

Special receptions were given in honor
of the party from Virginia by the King
and Queen, the Crown Prince, the Lord
Mayor of London, Lady Astor, and Lady
Markham. In addition to these, theatre
parties; garden parties, a boat trip up
the Thames, a luncheon given by the
Government, at which seventy of Eng-
land’s most notable characters were
present, a lunchedn by the English
Speaking Union, and a stately excursion
through Hampton Palace and Westmin-
ster Abbey, all go to show Great Brit-
ain’s great hospitality and deep appreci-
ation of the gift of the statue, -

The nobility of England made a very
pleasing impression upon Dr. Smith. He
had expected to find in the nobles only
a settled state of dignity, but he soon
discovered that such was not the case.
One way of distinguishing a lord from

jand Robinson, of Davidson.

pthe next team were Palmer and Wiihere

jspoon, of Salisbury, versus Dr. MacCon-
Dr. Smith was sent over to England!

rie ‘ . | Gracy were the stars for Davidson, while
This statue is a replica}

3ritish government in commemora- |
iwere

|iowest score with a gt for his first round |

jand Wood defeated” their

| tournament.

ae Final
On Tuesday afternoon of last week, !
October 25th, the Davidson golf links |
Was the scene of an interesting mateh|
between the Salisbury ~ and Davidson |
golf teams. Davidson took two of, the!
three matches. The tournament started |
promptly at 2 p. m., and continued until |
6 pom. Large galleries attended each,
match, and keen interest was shown by
everyone present.

urday snatched victory from the
in the last minute of play.

for a total of 67 yards and
torn and left the final outeome

‘University Freshmen and
Gastonia Lose to Scrubs
Two Davidson Teams Make Good

Salisbury sent, over ‘six of tlicir best
men, and these were made up into teams
composed of two men each, ‘The six Da-

vidson players were Dr. MaeConnell, th
Professor Wood, McGill, Robinson,| Scores, Winning 28-0 and 34-0.
Pachman, and Gracy. Soap eee

The first mately was that of Yeagert Carolina Game.

The undefeated Davidson Serubs add-
ed another scalp to their belt by defeat-
ing the heavy Carolina Freshmen team

and Carter, of Salisbury, against McGill
Following
them was Davidson's as well as Salis-
Lury’s strongest team, composed of | >Y the merry score of 28 too, Are the
Walker and Robertson from Salisbury, Second string men the stulf? Just let
yy) One wateh them romping around some
{time with the old pigskin tucked away,
jand he will wonder no longer why no
high or prep in this state is able to take
their measure. “If to
fighting crowd with the old-time Wildeat
| spirit, it will do’ your eyes good to wateh
They
fashion,

Gracy and Bachman from Davidson, On

nell and Professor Wood, of Davidson

you want see oa

Some beautiful playing was done dur-
ing the course of the afternoon, and ail
teams up well. and

showed Jachmay

these moleskin artists in action,
buck the line in) Varsity
‘pull fakes and end runs which puzzle
feven Walter Camp, and their aerial at-

| tacks bewilder their opponents, just like
next to the Wis the Doughboys did) the
below played hist ire-hearccals on the defense, and look

Dr, MacConnell and Professor Wood) o*"
both played steady games.

Gracey played unusually well, making
lowest drives
normal, but he
iron shots above reproach, and was also

putting accurately.

Bisebt, Kaiser,

Bachman made the lian

3 |ruffle up the Wildcats’ fur every day on

and 24 for the five holes of the second) Syrunt Field, and they surely deserve

round, His drives were very spectacular, | every bit of credit coming their way,
$} Rita ie B tant Sort be| ty :

being unusually long and straight; a! [because they are a game

though his approach shots were not UP! Know how to fight

to his average. :

‘crowd and

| Their game with the Freshmen last
Bachman and Gracey, and MacConnell | saturday was played at Chapel Hill be-
; opponents; fore“the entire Carolina student body.
McGill and Robinson were de-| It was hard fought, but the Serubs were
feated ; but they both played well CON fighting to uphold a reputation, namely,
sidering that they are inexperienced iN that no Davidson Scrub team has been
the game, and that this was their first) defeated in five years.

while

TherSalishury team. played good golf | They outclassed the Freshmen in every
sy y play S is "| phase of the game and the result was

(Continued on page 2) | Never in doubt. From the kick-off to the

Executing the most spectacula fl
by a Wildcat eleven in many years, the

They |

Hike acmillion of John D's sheckels. And!
about fight, they are the crowd who

| Red and Black Scores Two Touchdowns in Last Quarter, Second One Just Before
| Whistle---Four Aerial Passes For Sixty-Seven Yards Executed.

ash of football strategy completed
Alma Mater warriors on last Sat-

clutches of the University of Richmond
By successfully completing four aerial passes
a touchdown,
a I4to 14 tie.

the web of the Spider was

<| Little Spratt Moore played the most

| spectacular game for the Red and Black.
| Furnishing the big thrill of the game, in
the last minute of play he snatched a
from Schenck and 2
}down the extreme sideline for the tying
jscore, eluding a Richmond back desper-
lately clutching for him, y

pass ran 20 yards

Coach Dobson's aggregation opened up
with a rush, and before the game was
well under way, had their opponents be-
| Tech shift.
Opening after opening was made in the
;Wildeat line and theespeedy Richmond
backs plowed through substantial
lgains time after time. end
runs materialized and several times her
hacks were thrown for five and seven
Offsetting this,
Wis the perfect aerial attack of Coach

|
i"
|
|

wildered by the famous

for
Davidson

vard losses, however,

Grey's machine. Passes of all deserip-
tions were used to a wonderful advant-
fave, and the Red and Blue were unable
'to fathom them at all, Also, Davidson
had the advantage in the exchange of
punts. Mebadden Erwin clearly
outpunted Snead, of Richmond, and also

and

Nid their kicks better placed.

Davis and Erwin were the only David-
son players to gain consistently around
lthe opponents’ flank, while Shepherd
{plowed through their line on Numerous
occasions. The McFadden to Schenck pass
also completely baffled the secondary de-
Ifense of the University lads. For the
home team, Zeigler, Jones and Fray ap-
| peared to carry the brunt of the offense.
{Towill played a wonderful
| game, throwing Wildcat backs for losses
ltime after time.
| Under weather conditions the
{two teams lined up amid much enthusi-
jasm from the sidelines. The stands were
| omogrddad and the colors of both schools

| were very much in evidence. Davidson
|

defensive

ideal

(Continued on page 2)

| SIGMA UPSILON GUESTS OF

PROFESSOR AND MRS. ERWIN

The Sigma Upsilon Literary Fraternity
had a delightful meeting at the home
of Prof. E.. J. Erwin Wednesday
night, October 26th. The meeting was
called at half after nine o'clock and an
interesting program carried out.

on

The first part of the meeting was given
over to the reading of the opening chap-
ter of a novel, written by R. K. Shaw.
The plan is for a member to write a
chapter for each meeting and for it to
be read and discussed at that time. In
this way a novel will be produced’ unique
in composition and varied in style. Dr.
E. F. Shewmake then read a paper on
“Dante, as a Poet;” and Professor Er-
win read one on “The Structure of the
Divine Comedy.” Both of these articles
were highly appreciated.

Pleasing refreshments were served by
Mrs. Erwin near the close of the even-
ing. This was’the first meeting. this
term at the home of a member of the
faculty, and with such surroundings, the
Sigma Upsilon no doubt will continue its
excellent work of previous years.

Rolston Bitzer and J. H. McKeithen
have been recently elected to_member-
ship in this fraternity -and. they will be
initiated at an early date.

final whistle the Scrubs were all fight,|™0ters were congregated in the center
land showed the large crowd an excellent | of fle stands and perce team a He
| performance of » pre college sport, Mendous ovation when the opening whis-
ele nee the-preat S Hee ape litle blew. Davidson to kick and
Roggs kicked off, and the Freshman was ! : Vans : Z
dropped in his tracks; here they were) M¢Fadden booted the oval outside. On
The Scrubs | 1s second trial he gave it a far ride
(Continued on page 2)

chose

held and forced to punt.
then began a steady march down the}

field which resulted in a touchdown,
Raker carrying the oval over. The first | * boo tliat ayy dio tot eat ta ok Tera See J
quarter ended with the ball in the | * WHAT’S DOING.

Scrubs’ possession on the Freshmen’s five | *
yard line. Boggs, who was showing up | *
well, was knocked out in this period and |*
had to retire from the game. In the|*
second quarter Harris went over the|*
final white line for two counters, after |*
Raker and. Crawford advanced the ball |*

down-the field by pretty end runs. Har- *

Thursday—7:15 p. m., Phi. Society.
Eu. Society.

Friday—8:o0 p. m., Class Basketball:
Seniors vs. Fresh.

Saturday—3:00 p. m.—Wildcats vs.
N.C. State, Wearn Field, Charlotte.

Sunday—io a, m., Volunteer Band.

ris’ plunging and Raker’s speed in gal-;* 1:30 p. m., Ministerial Band.
loping around end were the main fac-|* 3:30 p. m., Dr. Hood’s Bible Class.
tors in the Scrubs’ three touchdowns in,*

| 4:30 p. m., Christian Endeavor.
The Freshmen fought \*

te eet eteee ee ee te tee ee eee ee ee te

the first half. 6:15 p.m. “Y” Service, Rev. Locke

hard in the third period and by line|* White.

plunging on the part of George advanc-|* Monday—7:15 p. m., Phi. Fresh So-

ed the ball to the Scrubs’ five yard line.|* ciéty.

Here the giant fullback met a stone wall] * Tuesday—7:15 p. m., Eu. Fresh So-

and the ball was Davidson’s. The Fresh-| * ciety.

mcn’r only chance to score was lost, and|* 8:00 p. m., Class Basketball: Jun-

never again did they threaten. At the|* iors vs. Sophs.

beginning of the fourth period the aerial|* Wednesday — 9:00 p. m.,, Bible *

attack of the Scrubs completely bewild-|* Classes.

ered the first year men, and twice the|* Thursday — Davidsonians Come

Presbyterians carried the ball the length |,* Again. ;
(Continued on page 5) sop fete gah Gif Ere re Deak ae Soe SE |

PATRONIZE OUR AD

VERTISERS!
