The DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents-per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before
12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

in-Chief

HARDS.---.-------- Editor- . P. PRICE -Forum Editor
\y i RF ig ---Managing Editor }: S. CURRY... -.Campus Editor
H. H. SMITH... Asst. Managing Editor ot BAILEY, JR .-Y. M. C. A. ea
R. F _..Assignment Editor . SP. NT -Social Editor
ACG 0) ee Kthictic Editor . H, OGDE viterary Editor
A, C, SUMMERS. Alumni Editor W. J. COOPER. ublicity Editor
et J. H. McKEITHEN---------- Exchange Editor

CLUB

MAUZE, E.
MAUZE, G.,
MORRIS, H.
SMITH, R. oH

REPORTERS’
BITZER, R., Pres. :

BRADFORD, W. ,Z.
BROWN, C. V.
BROWN, W. BP.

H.
W., V.-Pres.
M. Scc.-Treas.

ifs
, i

: R. ULLER, C. D.
ei aiat aa a s ONES, RL: WALTHALL, D._B.
ELKINS, L. D. KNOX, W. 1. WILDMAN, A. C.
ELLIOTT, W. T. LACY, T. A, WILDMAN, C. F.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

. J. C.. WOOL......--.-------Business Mariager
L. A. TAYLOR, E. T. WOOLFOLK and W, S. SHEPARD

Asst. Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:

Assi t

in Circulati Department: -~

M. R. DOUBLES...-----Circulation Manager \ssistan on artment:
< SSEL > D. TULLER S. C, FAIN P. C. HENDERSON
pte SUES) Bee Ce rcdiation Managers WATT McCAIN R. L, PRICE

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

Professor Erwin’s announcement that there is to be another Wildcat
Minstrel Show this year was welcome news to the students, This is an
event which we cannot afford to miss.

: D

In another. part of this week’s issue there appears a list of The Da-
vidsonian’s advertisers in Charlotte. Read it carefully and support these
friends when you are in town Saturday, rather than go to those who
refused to advertise with us on the ground that they would get the trade

anyhow.

D
Our wireless station had hard luck in receiving the report of the
Georgia Tech game Saturday. The only thing which reached the local
operator was the zero in Davidson’s score. It is hoped that the station
will be in good order and rendering efficient service within a few days,
however.

D
SINGING AT CHAPEL.

OR many years it was the custom for the student body to join in

the singing of hymns at the morning prayer service. So little inter-

est was manifested in this part of the chapel exercises, however,
that it was finally discontinued, and for the past two years the service
has consisted merely of a scripture reading and a prayer,

This fall the Y. M. C. A, has interested itself in the matter, and has
secured the consent of the faculty to make one more trial of the old plan.
The reason for this action lies in the belief which has become fixed in
the minds of some, that something should be done to make these exer-
cises a more vital factor in the life of the campus. It is hard for a man
to feel that he is engaging in worship unless he is taking an actual part
in the program. Singing offers this opportunity for every man on the
campus. ‘

At a recent meeting the student body decided by a majority vote that
it wished to sing hymns at chapel. This week the plan is being put to its
first real test. By its success in these few days will largely be deter-
mined: whether the practice is to be continued or to be abandoned as not
worth the while. If the larger part of the student body is not willing to
sing there. can be little use in having only a faithful few to join in the
hymns. Let every member of the student body give a little earnest
thought to the question of whether or not this exercise will be worth
while to the student body and to himself, and act accordingly.

D

ON TO CHARLOTTE.

Last Saturday’s defeat came asa severe blow to every Davidson sup-
porter. The Wildcats encountered a football team in the Golden Tor-
nado of Georgia Tech, which has few if any superiors in the United
States, and they were admittedly outclassed. In spite of this fact, how-
ever, they put up a stubborn and plucky fight and only Coach Alexander’s
wealth of reserve material enabled his machine to run up such a high
score in the latter part of the game. The fighting spirit of the Wildcat
was never better shown than when in the first half Coach Grey’s men
held the Tornado for four downs on their own one-yard line. There is
not a man in the student body who does not realize this, and the fact that
we are solidly behind our team was demonstrated by the reception ten-
dered it when it arrived Monday morning.

On next Saturday Davidson will meet an opponent of much nearer
her own strength. Wake Forest is coming to Charlotte with what is
reported to be the strongest team in her history and the fixed determina-
tion of defeating her ancient rival.’ If the Wildcats are victorious in this
contest they will have taken a long step toward wiping out the memory
of her bitter experience on Grant Field, and annexing the football honors
of North Carolina. If she comes off second best she has a great handicap
to-fight against in the remainder of her games this season. The team
is determined that Saturday’s game shall not be a defeat.

Ih’ view of this fact there is but one step for the student body to
take, Let every man who can beg or borrow the money board the spe-

- cial for Charlotte Saturday morning, and be there to yell until the last
niintte of the game that afternoon.. We know ourselves that Davidson’s
fighting spirit is not dead. If Charlotte does not know it after Saturday
‘we will have only ourselves to blame.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 13, 1921.

Open Forum

On to Charlotte.

We will ride Wake Forest on the rail.

Fellows, lets turn out five hundred
strong on Saturday and show the old
team that we are back of them heart
and soul. Make the old bleachers roar
and show that old D. C. is still there
with her characteristi¢ old “pep.”

We know that we have a good team,
fellows, and they are going to fight like
Wild Cats next Saturday, but they need
just the support that five hundred lungs
can give them from the side lines.

Let’s let Charlotte know, too, that D.
C. has: come to town. This will be a
good opportunity to show the business
men of Charlotte that we deserve their
support. Look over the ads in the Dav-
idsonian and patronize those who
patronize us. You will want a couple of
meals there. Go to the cafeterias and
restaurant$ which advertise in our paper.
You wilt
the shows that patronize the Davidson-
ian. You will want to make some cloth-
ing purchases, go to the clothier who
has been supporting our paper. Let them
know where you're from and that it pays
to advertise in the Davidsonian.

There is a business depression all over
the country now. Business men are cut-
ting out all advertising that is not strict-
ly essential, that does. not bring returns
on their investment. “Let’s show our ad-
vertisers a paying investment, that it is
one of their essentials.

Let’s back those who are backing us.
D
ANTIQUATED.

A few days ago a student carefully
worked out his schedule so that he
could get the required number of credits
to enter a standard school of medicine,
but he only needed a half year’s credit
in chemistry to fill out the requirements
for the medical school, but he was also
ambitious to get a degree from David-
son with the result that now he must
take a chemistry that he won’t need at.
all in the medical school but, which he
is compelled to take here because only
half a year’s work will count nothing
toward a degree here. This situation
would not be so bad if we were not en-
tirely alone in otrr old-fashioned ideas
about using the out-of-date ticket sys-
tem. It seems that common sense would
show us that the semester hour system
with credits for the individual terms
towards a degree should be given.

want to take in a show, go to|

date, old-fashioned, inconvenient, and a
time loser for those men intending to go
to other institutions. Does it not stand
to reason that when all the colleges
throughout the country have abandoned
the ticket system for the semester hour
system, we could afford to adopt a com-
mon sense method? Scribor.
D.
REPORTERS’ CLUB ELECTS
FIVE ADDITIONAL MEMBERS

On Friday night at the regular weekly
meeting the Reporters’ Club elected five
new men into the club. The following
were chosen: R. R. Jones, W. I. Knox,
R. H. Smith, C. V. Brown and L. D. EI-
kins. These men were recommended by
'the staff as doing exceptionally good
work.

The object of the Reporters’ Club is to
improve the quality of The Davidsonian
as much as possible by discussion and
criticism of the articles in the paper.
In this way the work of the reporters is
improved. The articles are criticised
lwith reference to grammar, rhetoric,
length, news and other such points.

Each year seven men, members of the
club, are awarded a Golden Quill for
their work in the club. These men are
selected by the managing editor and the
president of the Reporters’ Club, They
are selected upon the quality and quan-
tity of work done for The Davidsonian
as well as the length of time they have
been in service, and with the proviso
that there are not more than ten wear-
ers of the quill in college at one time.
Tliosé“men are chosen who have done
the best work from all viewpoints. The
quills are awarded at Junior Speaking.

The club intends to have a feed in the
near future, though no definite time has
been decided upon.

D.
MIMIR SQCIETY

(Continued from page 1)
dents and faculty of Davidson College.
Every student who has attained distinc-
tion in scholarship by averaging as much
as 93 for three consecutive years is eligi-
ble for membership.

The society is again petitioning the
Phi Beta Kappa and has high hopes of
being made a chapter of that fraternity.
This would be both a distinction and an
honor to Davidson.

F D.

A missionary pageant was given by
the Epworth League Sunday night. The
different counties were represented by
girls wearing the native costumes. Music
was a special feature of the program.

“Where
Pollyanna Cafeteria
The Raleigh Cafe
The S. & W. Cafeteria

Carolina Sporting Goods Co._--

Myers Hardware Co,_---------

Belk Bros. Co

The Piedmont-_-
The Imperial

DIRECTORY OF OUR CHARLOTTE SUPPORTERS.

Fellows, below is a classified list of our advertisers in Char-
lotte. Cut this out and take it to Charlotte with you, patronize
these friends and tell them you appreciate their support.
can help the paper a lot this way, as well as getting good service
in whatever line you have trading to do.

Athletic Goods

Clothing and Furnishings
Ed} Mellons==2-.- 223

Be Heakeithises 2 23 Sc ae

Rryon Drugs Conse eee te 200 N. Tryon
Flowers
SChOlt2=s-ssaes soe ee 8 N. Tryon
’ Stationery and Office Supplies
PoundiandeMoore: Com sssss sae ae ne 205 S. Tryon St.
Brockmann’s Book Co,_----------------------- 210 S. Tryon St.
Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co._---------- Garland Court
Banks
Commercial National Bank____-____-------------- South Tryon
Independence Trust Co,--.----_--=_ = On the Square
Hotels ‘
AZ (CET Le eae ee 7S. Tryon St.
MhegStone wal lees ee eee At the Station
MhepMecklenburg-- 22 - ssa ee At the Station
Shoe Shop

Shu Fixery_--______ fi pea

You

to Dine”

New Central Hotel
Wess eer ere 221 W.. Trade St.
20 W. Trade St.

eS 5 W. Fourth
18. FE. Trade,

St.
St.

Sars “On Trade Near Tryon”
Joe lemecsets See East Trade St.
38 S. Tryon St.

South Tryon
---20 N. Tryon St.
wee eee eee 36 S. Tryon

16 W. Trade
Sg eee 213 N. Tryon

Spo enact 207 S. Tryon

This present ticket system is out of |

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

Game Between Elon and Guilford For
Armistice Day.

Owing to numerous requests received
from various sources for a football game
to-be played in Greensboro this fall, the
athletic committee has arranged a sec-
ond_ game with Guilford College to be
staged on Armistice Day at Cone Park.

The regular annual game between
Elon and Guilford will be played at Elon
on Thanksgiving. Heretofore only one
game has been played between the teams
during the season, but the outside preé-
sure brought to bear upon those in
charge of athletics in the college, for a
Greensboro game, made it necessary to
arrange a second game.

Over the College Boy’s Head.

Oh, I've witnessed the ruins of Egypt

And the scraps of a pulverized Rome,

And the delaceration and cruel vitia-
tion

Of cities abroad and at home;

I’ve gazed on extinguished Pompeii

And the stubble that once was called
Troy, :

But no ruin, by heck, can equal the
wreck

Of the hat of a gay college boy.

For a lid to be truly collegiate

Must have wrinkles and grooves and
a tear,

And unless it is creasy and sloppy and
greasy

It’s not at all decent to wear,

The havocs of fire I’ve regarded;

The ravages wrought by the war;

The mire and the mud in the wake of a

t flood,

And a thousand catastrophes more.

Every eyesore on earth I’ve discovered,

Distortions that mar and alloy,

But they never can dare to hope to
compare

With the fez of a gay college boy.

Oh, Youth, if you call my line hokum,

And ‘underrate what I have said

Regarding your hat, then well I knew.
that

It’s certainly over your head! D

—Jacy Bee.

Classification.

If a fellow tries to kiss a girl and gets
away with it, he is a man.

If he tries and doesn’t get away with
it, he is a brute.

If he doesn’t try but would get away
with it if he did try, he is a coward.

If he doesn’t try and wouldn’t get
away with it if he did try, he is a wise
man,

To The Rollins Sandspur of Rollins
College, Winter Park, Fla., will likely
go the honor of having been the first
member admitted to the Southern In-
tercollegiate Newspaper Association
since its organization last spring. The
Rollins Sandspur’s application and check
has been received and its subscribing to
the constitution is anticipated any day,
after which the “vote by mail” will be
taken on the ‘application —Richmond
Collegian.

D
The Penn State .grappers took all
seven matches from the University of
Pennsylvania wrestling team last Satur-
day night. Six victories were the re-
sult of falls and the other was won on
the judges’ decision.

D.
VOLUNTEERS HEAR HAROLD
MOSS AND LUTHER BURNEY

The Volunteer Band met in the church
at ten o’clock Sunday morning with 18
present. The meeting. was opened by
singing a hymn, which was followed by
a prayer by Ed. Cunningham.

The leader, Harold Moss, then made
an interesting talk.

After this L. P. Burney spoke on the
Educational System in heathen coun-
tries, in which some striking facts were
presented as to the great need of teach-
ers in foreign fields. A letter was also
read from Mr. Bedinger, a missionary
in Africa, which stated that a dentist
was much needed in his -field.

Business was then taken up.
announced that the Volunteer Band
would have a feed Tuesday night. Im-
portant plans were laid for the work
throughout the year.

It was

