The DAVID SONIA N

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
——— ee
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

EEE ooq"@>Eqq]EeeeeSEeeEeESeeESEaeaeSeEeEeaeeS="
i licati t be in the hands of the Managing Editor before
A att fonday. Arts icles received from an unknown source will not be published.

j E. CASS. --- petitor in chict
CHA! - anxgin:
ke Bano ROS Flatt Mans ing Editor
aR De Miule.'e Editor
J Wo MORET THEN —— Alumni Editor
. C, McCASKIL Exchange Editor
ROP a ~__--Campus Editor
. W. ROBERTS. Y. M. C. A. Editor
HL A. HILL..... Social Editor
J. M. GASTON, --Literary Editor
R. R. McILW. woennnen. Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB

King, A. D. Ogden, D. H.
Lacy, T. A. Ormond, A. C.
Long, C. G Phillips, J. W:
Mahood, D. L. Sprunt, J.

Mauze, G. W.

Mitchell, A. M. Summers, A. C.

Morris, H. M. Tuller, C. D.
Wool, J. C.

Lowrance, D. W.

Bailey, J. CG
Bitzer, R.
Cooper, W. J.

Cunningham, C. E.
Davidson, R. F.

Gamble, W. A.
Jones, J. R.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
eaeue eeccccen------------- Business Manager

pewnnnnnnsceee Assistant Managers

Cc. J. MATTHEWS.
E, A. NASH
J. S. CURRY —

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT: . .
Cc. H. LON Circulation Manage
J. C. WOOL._...----~---------------~- 2 ---- o-oo: sistant Manage
Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

It is gratifying to. know that the student body as a whole does not
approve of so much confusion during the time that students should be
at work. It is the duty of every man to see that the recent resolution
passed to this effect is kept to the letter.

—_—__— Dp —_____

Are you serving your college in such a way
row, the whole school would feel the loss of you
making Davidson better? .

iat if you left tomor-
influence and help in

h dent bod Id no doybt lik
Recently we suggested that the student body would no doybt like
Sunday afternoon band concerts. No reports having been heard to the
contrary, we believe that the students are in accord with such a plan.
But to have regtilar campus concerts there should be a comfortable
band stand. Such a structure would not cost a great amount of money,
and this could easily be the Seniors’ solution of their class gift. This
would be a donation that would not serve just as an ornament, but one
that would be really useful. Talk it up, men of ’21.
D——_—__

The report that Davidsén is to have a rifle team to engage in in-
tercollegiate matches only goes to show that our R. O. T. C. is on the

job.
I dents has not been all that could be expected of Davidson men. Any
college of real merit always plays the part of a gentleman to the
visiting team under all circumstances. Whether or not our opponents
give grounds for hissing is to be disregarded. They are our visitors on
our courts, and this being the case we, if we are true gentlemen, will re-
frain from any hooting and hissing remarks. Just because they do some-
thing that is not right offers no excuse for us to use the same means in
offsetting their unfair tactics. We beliéve in giving our team the
right kind of support, but we want to see it done by rooters, not hooters.
Our basketball games have been too rough this year, but we will
dismiss this with just a word. It is due to the fact that a competent
referee has been lacking. Not every man can referee satisfactorily; it’
is almost an art in itself. For this reason it is imperative that an effi-
cient official be secured to handle the remainder of the games on the

home floor.
D———_—_—_
FACULTY VISITING.

Dpb——_-
IS THIS DAVIDSON SPIRIT?

N one or two of the recent basketball games the conduct of the stu-

In every college the students necessarily miss the uplifting home in-
fluence. There is absolutely nothing on the campus that can adequately
take its place. The various organizations are helpful of course in train-
ing the students along intellectual and Christian lines, but in all of these
activities the masculine element rules. For the ordinary boy to culti-
vate that charm of manners and courtesy characteristic of Southern
gentlemen there must of necessity enter into his life the elevating in-
fluence of a mother.

The only place in our little college world wherein we may receive
the benefit of such influence is in the homes of the faculty. There can
be no doubt of the sincere interest in the welfare of the students on the
part of the faculty members and their wives. They are always glad to
open their doors to the boys of Davidson College and deem it a privi-
lege and a pleasure to have this opportunity of bringing to them just a
touch of home life.

In years past the students always availed themselves of this oppor-
tunity, but with the growth of the college this custom seems to be dy-

ing away. And the college boy is the loser! The faculty has nothing
to gain 4 this Sunday night visiting; it is the student who derives the
benefit. Forget the idea that to go to the home of a faculty member is

“bootlicking.” No sensible fellow will ever accuse you of such a pur-
pose. Why not begin again this custom, for the students have every-
thing to gain and nothing to lose. om (AS f@e''s, gisele _:

Open Forum

EXAMINATIONS, WHEN?

There has been agitation for and
against examinations coming in Jan-
uary instead of December, as has been
the custom. Will those who want exams
in January look at some of the results.

First, the demoralization of exami-
nations when we have started work aft-
er the Christmas holidays. The days
which the Seniors will have off, who
average above 8s, the grade which ex-
empts them from ternt examinations,
will do them little good at this time.
Besides everyone knows that examina-
tions are in a way demoralizing. Why
not have this demoralization at the same
titse as Christmas holidays?

Second, who wagts exams hanging
over the joys of Christmas holidays, and
not know when he starts to work the
first of January whether or not he has
successfully passed the fall term’s work.

Third, have you thought how much
extra work the absence committee
would have if it were not for exams
just before Christmas?

Think! what one of us would not like
to have our holidays of reward just be-
fore Christmas; have an exact result of
the fall term’s work before we start to
work again; have the work run con-
tinuous from January to May without
the eight days’ break for exams; and
who wants the absence regulations com-
plicated more?

4 Boaz.
- ——D——___
A STUDENT BUILT DORMITORY.

In these days of hard times building
a dormtiory seems to be a far off possi-
bility. The million dollar campaign of
last year netted a great many pledges
but very little cash. If some one could
suggest a way for. the students them-
selves to build one without directly
paying a cent he would be laughed at.
But it is possible, nevertheless, and not
so highly improbable either. Suppose
that the 150 students in the upper two
classes were taking the R. O. T. C.
course. This would be at the rate of
$15 a month for each student, which the
government pays in the advanced course,
$2,250 a month, or $20,250 in a nine
months’ year. In three years a dormi-
tory as good as any of the present ones
could be built. The college gives equal
credit for the R. O. T. C. with other col-
lege courses. There are two hours of
classes and three of drill. The class
work is not any more than other tickets
of equal credit and what science on the
Hill does not require at least three hours
a week. Then the uniform is free, which
saves about a hundred dollars a year in
clothes. We alt talk about love for old
Davidson, but when it comes to practi-
cal talk, about really helping her, what
are you going to do about it?

WITH THE OTHER COLLEGES.
_ By the Collegiate Press News
Service.

Salem College, Feb. 12—-There is a
movement on foot at Salem now to ex-
empt Seniors from examinations in any
subject in which an average of 80 per
cent has been made during the entire
semester. This movement has been ap-
proved and passed by the student coun-
cil and is now in the hands of the
faculty.

Salem College, Feb. 12—Never has
there been such a grand resurrection of
old clothes, “short-ends-of-wool,” odd
shoes, false hair; in fact, of everything
apparently useless, as is now in progress
at Salem College. The spark of en-
thusiasm that kindled this unusual move-
ment was the inspiring, enlightening
talk.on Sunday night by Miss Elizabeth
Bailey, a graduate of the University of
Illinois. About a year ago, while visit-
ing in western North Carolina, Miss
Bailey became so interested in the great
need for education in that section of
the State that she volunteered her serv-
ices as a teacher in the graded school at
Crossnore, Avery County. She clearly
pictured the illiterate, uncivilized state
in which these mountain folk live and
told us of specific instances’ in the every
day lives of these “Sixteenth Century
People” that seemed. almost impossible

in these modern times. The one school |-

at Crossnore was started cight years
ago by Dr. Mary Martin Sloop, sister
of Dr. Martin, president of Davidson
College. She and her husband are in

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 16, 1921.

charge of the school, assisted by ten
graduate teachers whose salaries are
paid entirely from the sale of old
clothes. The mountain girls and boys
are ready, waiting, and anxious to buy
the old clothes we consider “out-of-
style,” and feel just as much “bedecked”
in our cast-aways as we would feel in a
gown “made by Lucille” or a tailor-made
suit. This is a needed, noble work here
in our own State and well deserving of
all the help we college boys and girls
can give it. Come! join Salem in ex-
cavating your old clothes, pack them up
and send them to Mrs. E. H. Sloop, su-
perintendent, Crossnore, N. C.

Boys! don’t think you're excluded—
old cravats, shirts, shoes; in fact, any-
thing is most acceptable.

University of North Carolina, Feb. 12.
—The Carolina Playmakers on Friday
and Saturday nights, February 1th and
12th, presented three new folk plays at
the playhouse. These were “The Miser”
and “The Old Man of Edenton,” by Paul
Greene, of Lillington, and “The Vamp,”
by W. A. Royall, of Goldsboro. The au-
ditorium was packed and the plays were
well received by the atsdiences at both
performances.

The first play presented was “The
Miser,” a tragedy of domestic difficul-
ties resulting from the conflict of farm
and mill. The second of the series of
plays was “The Vamp,” a comedy skit
dealing with the heart havoc caused at a
fraternity dance by a pretty baby vamp.
“The Old Man of Edenton” was the
final part of the program. The play
dcalé with the great love of the old man
for his leprous wife, for whose sake he
sacrificed his reputation and became a
figure of ridicule and suspicion.

University of North Carolina, Feb. 12.
—Prof. Charles H. Grandgent, head of
the Department of Romance Languages
at Harvard University, has just com-
pleted a special intensive seminar course
in “Dante, His Period, and His Relation
to Human Thought,” under the auspices
of the Committee on Degrees with Dis-
tinction of the University.

This work was open only to certain
advanced students in the Division of
Languages and Literatures who had
done several weeks of intensive reading
in preparation for the seminar. Profes-
sor Grandgent is the fifth lecturer to
come to the University to conduct spe-
cial intensive courses in some highly
specialized field.

While in Chapel Hill, Professor Grand-
gent spoke to the Philological Club, and
also gave a public address in Gerrard
Hall on the subject of “Inspiration: Po-
etic and Divine.”

—————_.”» —_____
WIRELESS AT AUBURN.

Auburn has a modern wireless station
in use every night now. The station is
licensed by the government as an Ex-
perimental Radio Station, embodying
certain special privileges. The Auburn
station has been heatd for a distance of
2,500 ‘miles, its call is 5XA, and is work-
ing for and boosting Auburn all the time
in its own wireless way—Orange and
Blue. .

———_—__ Dp ____
ACH, THESE REFORMERS.
When the hootch is gone forever,
When to cigs we say good-bye—
When the girls tio longer. fool 'em—
Then—ye gods—please let me die!
—Old Gold and Black.

AWES the thing with men.
WDC Pipes men relax, fagged brains are relieved.
The specially seasoned genuine French briar breaks in sweet

- and mellow.

good

7}

re %

Read the exchanges in the Library.

TULANE ERECTS WIRELESS.
* The Tulane Hullabaloo is the latest
member of the Intercollegiate News Bu-
reau. Tulane now receives news reports
from the colleges and universities of the
country every night by wireless.

The station has been under construc-
tion for several days and is near com-
pletion. The sending and receiving
rooms are in the Y. M. C. A. building
and the aerial has been strung between
the water tank and the Academic Dor-
mitory.

his pledge: “You can put me down for
$300; if I can’t wring that much out of
the cold, cruel world above a decent liv-
ing within the next five years I might
as well quit.”—College Topics.

GREENSBORO LOSES HIGH SCHOOL
PRINCIPAL.

Mr. D. R. Price, principal of the
Greensboro High Schoal, has resigned
his position to enter the field or relig-
ious education. The school gave a fare-
well banquet in his honor and the facul-
ty presented resolutions stating their
appreciation of his work, and wishing
him success in his new field.

Examination is the absence of things
hoped for and the substance of things
forgotten.—“High” Life.’

_ SEWANEE SELECTS COACH.

The Athletic Board of Control of Se-
wanee University has selected John P.
Nicholson, Director of Athletics, and has
outlined plans for the improvement of
athletics at the University of the. South.
Sewanee has in the past used the “hand-
to-mouth” policy in athletics, employing
a coach for one team for one season.
They have come to realize that some
system in the coaching was necessary,
and that the coaching must be correlated
under one head, and that this head must
necessarily be an “all the year man.”

Nicholson has been coach at S. M. A.
for the last two years, and has turned
out championship teams. He is a close
student of football, an able track coach,
and well acquainted with baseball and
basketball—The Sewanee Purple.

VIRGINIA RAISES MONEY FOR GYM

The first night’s canvass for the $300,-
ooo gym for the University of Virginia,
netted $44,398 in pledges. A law student
who will hang out his shingle in June,
Et the following remark in writing
FACULTY RULES ON DANCES AT

UNIVERSITY.

The Administrative Council of the
Faculty of the University of Virginia, at
a recent meeting passed the following
resolutions: “Be it resolved by the Ad-
ministrative Council, that no dance shall
be given within the University. grounds
or within the neighborhood of the Uni-
| versity, by any student organization or
jany group of students or any individual
; Student, until_ they or he shall have se-

cured a permit from the Committee on
‘Public Celebrations having charge of
| such affairs."—College Topics.

Under the spell of

It will not crack or bum through. The
wD EL Teiangle on the bowl is your guarantee. Ask any
er.

‘We. DEMUTH & CO.. NEW YoRK

WORLD'S LARGEST MA

KERS OF FINE PIPES
