4 ee
The
Member of North Carolina Intercollegiate Press .
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

ri
Arti in the hands of the Managing Editor before
All Articles for Publication taived from an unknown source will not be published.

OOOO

:__..-Editor-in-Chief

JM, Riche Managing Editor
W. Ae Game, Secor TTT Kesiatane Managing Bator
RF, Davidson___---—---------- sencccceweenncsneccessceeewsen= Assignment Editor

pe cecenneeenn nna necnennn= Athletic Editor
Ae Oem OG ann -Alumni Editor

J. P. Price. cower ee ene eneeecececeennecenccenscceeeeee-<-Forum Editor
A. F les_-_------ a nemo sacennsanerceececeneeeenno-CAMpUus Editor
IC Baile nn een nnn nenennennneene¥. M,C. A. Editor
; Sprunte nora ncn Social Editor
en, Jt. nnn enev cence ennceennee-Literary Editor
w T cepen Finn Publicity Editor
i REPORTERS’ CLUB
Bitzer, R. Lacy, T. A. , Mitchell, A. M.
Cunningham, C. E. L&«, Cc. G. Morris, H. M.
Jones, J. R. Mahood, D. L. Phillips, J. W.
King, A. D. Mauze, G. W. Tuller, C. D.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
J. S. CURRY -.------~------------------ ---2--- one nn nnnnnn= Business Manager

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:

an Circulation Manager
. C. WOOL......-.-------. eeceweceseecee: ;
ue Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL |

“You can’t judge what a man gets out of college by the amount of
money he spends.”

a |
Every man in the Student Body should be at the station to mect
the baseball team when it comes in tomorrow. We can do no less to
show them our appreciation of their efforts.
D

There has been some increase in the volume of cheering at our

but there is still much room for improvement. With Wake
Forest Elon, and Citadel on the hill next week there will be need of
more pep than has been shown yet, and a chance for the manifestation of
While we are so much taken up with athletics let us not forget our
two intercollegiate debating teams and their approaching contests. These
men are working just as hard and doing their bit for the honor of Old
D——_————
“There is a place for every man and it is the duty of man to find it.”
D-—————_-—
HERE was a time in the history of Davidson when the coming of
] Commencement was an event looked forward to from one year’s
; end to another. The student body took interest and pride in re-
nt for the occasion. Literary and social events were com-
bined Fito one program for the pleasure and benefit of all, and the end-
ing of the school year meant much in the life of the college. That time
For some years past the students have manifested absolutely no
interest in the occasion. Whatever may be the cause of this attitude,
the blame certainly cannot be laid on the program. Speakers of the
literary address or a sermon before the Y. M. C. A. to a mere handful
of fifty or sixty boys. Practically no members of the student body out-
- side of the Seniors are present at the exercises, and they attend merely
That such a condition should exist is a regrettable circumstance, but
is nevertheless a stern fact. There are few who would deny that it
should be changed. The question is how to change Commencement in
they will only remain for the exercises, there will be little difficulty in
securing the attendance of large numbers of the alumni and other
visitors. 4d
making Junior Speaking a real social event. Can the Senior Class do
the same for Commencement? The difficulties that lie in the way are
necessarily even greater than those which faced the Juniors, because
to his summer’s work at the earliest opportunity; but there.must be a
solution to the problem. We believe that you have the ability to meet
and change this condition. If you can, you will have done much to win

some real Davidson spirit.
Davidson just as truly as the men who star on Sprunt Field.
CAN YOU DO IT, SENIORS?

maining for the graduating exercises, and throngs of outside visitors
has passed.
greatest ability and eloquence have been secured, only to deliver a
in the spirit of enduring a necessary evil in the securing of a diploma.
order to make it an attractive event for the students themselves. If

This year’s Junior Class met along felt ‘deed on the campus by
this event comes at the time when every student is anxious to get home
the permanent gratitude of your Alma Mater.

DAVIDSON ENTERS WRITING | man, R. R. MclIiwaine and R. K. Shaw,
CONTESTS |OF COLLEGIATE | representing the Magazine.
PRESS ASSOCIATION. Each of the contestants representing

The Davidsonian will enter three ar-
Davidson's representatives in the jour-

ticles, a feature story, a news article,
nalistic contest of the North Carolina

and an editorial.
College Press Association are: W. A.| Representing the Magazine, Freeman
Gamble, Jr., and W. J. Cooper, repre-

will enter a poem, McIlwaine -an_ es-
senting The Davidsonian; D. R. Free-|say and Shaw a short story.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL I, 19z1.

NOTE—To any student or alumni who
ever had an original thought this little
word is directed.

The Forum is essentially a place where
those who have nothing to do with the
publishing of the Davidsonian can air
their opinions. There are bound to be
things in connection with the college,
campus life, athletics, literary activities,
that we are always cussing or discussing,
or if not, matters that we have given
pretty deep thought. Why not let the
rest of us have the benefit of the work-
ing of your brain?

You Alumni—You have been away
from the college and can see things in a
different light from what you did when
you were here. Why not write to those
of us who are here now and tell us
what you like about the old place or
what you think could be improved.

You Students—Day after day you see
things around the campus that you think
are fine, or those that could be improved
on. Why not tell us about them? May-
be the little that you say will bring
about great results. Remember that it
was the dropping of an apple that start-
ed Newton to thinking about the laws of
motion.

To anyone who can write a legible
hand, to anyone who has ideas of his
own, to anyone that can write an ar-
ticle that can pass the board of censor-
ship—this column is at your service.
Make use of it whenever the spirit
moves you.

Mail any articles to The Forum Edi-
tor, Box 33.

D———__.

FOR THE GOOD OF ALL.

To the powers that be:

Some time back the library hours
were changed in the mornings to 9-10:30
instead of 12 to 1:30 because it was
thought that more students would have
this period vacant for library use. But
this, it seems, is still not a convenient
time to have the library open. Most of
the students have classes at this period
in the morning, and if they have a va-
cant period it is not time enough to do
much ‘reading, and there is generally
some lesson of the day to get up. So in
view of these facts, why not change the
hours again. Instead of opening the
library in the morning, when everybody
is busy, why not keep it open from, say
7 to 8:30, after supper. This would give
the students ample time to do parallel
reading for the following day and not in-
terfere with their night study.

‘In the afternoon the average student
is tired of class room work and does not
feel like going over to the library and
‘eading the remainder of the evening.
Especially is this true of those who have
laboratories up to 4 o’clock and after.
How much better it would be to have an
hour and a half after supper in which to
teally get some good out of all the good
books which are now unavailable to the
average student. Because of the fact
that he is not going to sacrifice his few
hours of exercise in the afternoon to his
library reading the reading is neglected.
Why not change the hours for the good
of all. “The Book Lover.”

—_p-—_—_—__
NEW DEPARTMENT ADDED TO
DAVIDSONIAN ORGANIZATION.

With the new Davidsonian staff comes
a new department, the Publicity Depart-
ment. This addition will fill a long felt
need in bringing Davidson into a closer
relationship with the other colleges of
North Carolina, and will be a great ad-
vertisement for the college as well as
individual members of the student body.

W. J. Cooper, the Publicity Editor has
outlined a definite working basis for the
department. A questionnaire will be

given to each member of the student:

body to fill out in a week or two, which
will furnish information for an elaborate
card index of every man in college.
When any man attains distinction here
on the campus his home paper will be
favored with a write-up. Arrangements
have been made with prominent daily
newspapers to run feature write-up of
the college. It has also been arranged
to have the associated press write up
any important events here which will be
sent over the country as one of their
regular news items.

The department will not only com-
municate with daily papers but also with
the other papers of the North Carolina
Collegiate Press Association. Each col-
lege paper will send out a sheet, con-
taining the most important college news

DAVIDSONIAN| OpenForum | EXCHPNGS

GEN g

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

DEBATING ISSUE.

That Southern debating teams more
than hold their own against Northern
opponents may be seen from results of
these intersectional battles of wits. The
University of Texas recently defeated
Columbia University of New York by a
unanimous vote. This is only one of
many contests which have resulted in
victories for Southern orators. Size of
institutions does not feature, as was
demonstrated by Brigham Young Uni-
versity’s victory over Princeton lazely.

We notice in a recent issue of an Aus-
tin, Tex., paper that the University of
Texas was victorious over Columbia
University in a debate of recent date.
The victory went to the University of
Texas by the unanimous vote of the
three judges.

—_—_—_—___)p—___....

RUTGERS DEFEATS LAFAYETTE

IN DUAL DEBATE.

The Rutgers Debating Teams started
out well Monday evening, March 7th, by
defeating the Lafayette teams in a dual
debate on both sides of the subject, “Re-
solved, That the use of the injunction in
labor disputes should be abolished.”
Both contests were close, as the judges
were divided in each case.

The teams were as follows:
Affirmative:

Brickenhok, ‘22

Richards, '23

Molineux, '24 v Feller, '24

Alt. Bebout, '23 Pfaltz, ’21

Owing to the illness of Feller, Pfaltz,
the alternate on the negative team
which debated at Lafayette was forced
to take his place.

Negative:
Seiffert, '23
Lincoln, '23

BRITISH-AMERICAN JOINT DUAL
MEET THIS SUMMER.

Cambridge, Mass., April 1—Oxford
and Cambridge Universities have ac-
cepted the challenge of Harvard and
Yale to a joint dual track and field meet
to be held at the Harvard Stadium. . Al-
though the date for the meet is still un-
settled, it is probable that it will be held
in late July or early August. Word of
the acceptance of the challenge was re-
ceived today by Maj. F. W. Moore, grad-
uate manager of athletics at Harvard,
in reply to an invitation cabled to the
English universities a week ago.

If your light goes out take a feather
from your pillow, that’s light enough.

If you are fond of athletics lift the
mattress and see the bed spring.

If you want the janitor, wring the
towel.

Don't worry about paying your room
rent, the dormitory is supported by its
foundation.—Hullabaloo.

—___
WHO GOES TO CHURCH.

At a recent religious census taken
among 2,000 students at the University
of Chicago by the Board of Christian
Union, it was revealed that among the
2,000 there was only one atheist, only
two agnostics, and that more men go to
church than women. — Intercollegiate
News Service.

FATTY ARBUCHLE SCORES HIT
IN “ THE ROUNDUP.”

The “Gym” Theatre was packed to its
capacity Friday night with Davidson
students and townspeople. “The Round-
up” consisted of seven reels of thrills
and excitement mingled with comedy.
This ‘marked Roscoe's first appearance in
such a serious role, he taking the part
of “the sheriff” in a western picture, in-
stead of his usual ridiculous role. “Fat-
ty” showed great skill! in drawing a gun
and in rolling a cigarette with one
hand, but when his time came to make
love, he was not there at all. This week
we will be favored with a Paramount
picture, featuring Charles Ray, in “The
Old-Fashioned Boy.” This will be on
Saturday night, at 7:30.
GS
of the week, to the other colleges of the
association. The student bodies of each
college will thus be informed as to what

the other Carolina student bodies are
doing.

N.C. C. P. A. NEWS SERVICE

STUDENT GOVERNMENT GROWING
POPULAR IN N. C. COLLEGES.

Queens College, April 2—Queens will
have student government next year.
This matter has been pending for sev-
eral months and was settled two weeks
ago when Dr. Fraser, the new president,
visited the‘college. Student government
officers will be elected the latter part of
April.

N. C. State, March 23—On March 8th
the student body voted to adopt student
government. This system will be ef-
fective upon the approval of the board
of trustees. We think that this is one
of the most forward movements ever
made in the history of the college.

Guilford College, April 2—The Girl's
Student Government Association at
Guilford has adopted a new constitution
which includes a revision of many of its
old principles and also incorporates the
new methods which have proven suc-
cessful in other institutions similar to
Guilford,

—___D—____
ELON TO OFFER UNIQUE COURSE.

Elon College, April 5—-Elon College
wilt offer next year a course having as
its object the training of men to render
efficient service in the largest boys’ or-
ganization in the world, the Boy Scouts
of America. This course will take up a
study of the Organization and Adminis-
tration of the Scout Program, the princi-
ples of psychology upon which it is
based and the practical work in handling
a Scout Troop, administering the Scout
tests, and studying such phases of scout-
craft as camping, camp cooking, hiking,
signalling, etc. This course will be in
charge of the Scoutmaster of the Elon
Scouts, who will arrange for experts in
the different fields of scouteraft to as-
sist in making the course of utmost
value to those who take it.

GEOLOGY CLASS TAKES .
INTERESTING TRIP

Chapel Hill, April 8—Under the direc-
tion of Dr. Prouty, head of the Geologi-
cal Department, and Mr. J. B. Miller,
graduate student, a trip of inspection
was taken by a number of geological
students through the fossil beds of Vir-
ginia during the recent Easter holidays.
The trip lasted for six days and all re-
port a very profitable journey. Lynch-
burg, Roanoke, Salem and Catawba Val-
ley were included in the tour and the
party camped for a time in the Catawba
Valley.

D———__
COLLEGIATE PRESS ASSOCIATION
MEETS HERE MARCH 22.23,

On March 22d and 23d the Davidson
College Magazine and The Davidsonian
were hosts to the North Carolina Col-
legiate Press Association. The associa-
tion was formed about two months ago
with Eris Cassell, of Davidson, as the
first president.

The members of the association are:
The Tar Heel, The Carolina Magazine,
The Trinity Chronicle, The Trinity Ar-
chive, Old Gold and Black, The Acorn,
Queens Blues, The Davidsonian, The
Carolinian, The Corraddi, The Salemite,
The Guilfordian, Maroon and Gold, Da-
vidson College Magazine, The Greens-
boro College Literary Magazine. There
were about thirty representatives at
the meeting.

D—___.
ODDS AND ENDS.

The faculty have invited Hon. John
Skelton Williams to be the commence-
ment speaker this year.—(N. C. State).

The Regiment wit! soon give a review
in honor of the various clubs of Raleigh.
—(N. C. State).

Maj. R. R. Moton, president of Tuske-
see Institute, addressed the student
body on March 2sth.—(N. C. State).

Dr. Wright, of Yale University, gave
a series of lectures on March 16th-17th,
to the Promotion Force of the “Y.” His
subjects were on “Winning Men for
Christ.”"—(N. C. State).

Miss Helene Hickson, of the class of
‘23, was elected Editor-in-chief of
“Queens Blues” for 1921-1922, on March
3oth—(Queens College).

D———__.

(Editor's Note—Under the caption
“Odds and Ends,” it is planned to give
every week several short but interesting
articles from the N.C. C. P. News Serv-
ice. They will be given as received ex-
cept where abridgement may be neces-
sary in some few instances),

