THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 2, 1921.

ALUMNI NEWS

)TWO MOVIES WERE SHOWN
HERE DURING LAST WEEK

REV. CALVIN L. STEWART
TAKEN FROM HIS FRIENDS

Rey. Calvin L. Stewart, 1877, died
at his home in Pelzer, S. C., Novem-
ber 9th. He was born in Laurens
County, South Carolina; and was a
graduate of Davidson College in

the feature of Senior Week.

Show” came on Friday night, just}

1877, and Columbia Theological{after six of ’22’s orators had eased

Seminary in 1880. their bosoms of their messages to
He was ordained by the Presby-; humanity.

tery of Enoree in 1881 and was pas-

until 1895. In connection with his) Kate Bruce, as Youth’s mother, was |
work at Piedmont he supplied the good also, but was forced to overact
church at Pelzer, S. C., from 1888 to terribly. “Texperience” is taken from
1896, when he was called to give his George V. Hobart’s morality play.
entire time to the church at Pelzer. There is rather too much morality
He continued to serve this church and too little play. :
until his death, a continuous period In “After the Show” the acting of
of service extending over 33 years. Charles Ogle stands out most promi |
He was a man of sterling worth and nently. The main theme of this play
the Gospel of Christ in is the struggle in the heroine’s heart
between the different sorts of love. |
The love that protects finally wins,
but it is only after a hard battle with
the love that desires.

preached
simplicity and power and was great-
ly beloved by his people.
"MARRIAGES.
ALL DAVIDSON TEAM.
(Since 1914)

Mr. and Mrs, William Oliver Bar-
rett announce the marriage of their
daughter, Olivia, to Dr. [Edwin Harp-
er Linfield, on Friday, the 25th of

By Eugene Mauze.
November, 1921, at Lexington, Miss.

lfirst Team, Second Team.
King, 18 Younger 719
lend

SECTS y Hammett, ’21 ..----- Anderson, 715

James ‘T. Maddrew, "15, is wearing) 4 Taclio
a broad smile now, James Ts Jt. Grey, 18 Meniaeters:
arrived last Saturday, November

BIRTHS. _

20

$81,000.00.

FACTS AND FIGURES ON
| CHAMBERS BUILDING

(Continued from page 1)
architecture, are 45 feet high, over
21 feet in circumference, and over
six feet in diameter. The building
|¢ontains 72 sleeping rooms, five class

scum, It faces the west and the vil-
lage, and its front walls are ivy cov-
ered, Sixty years of usage has add-
ed to the dignity of the stately edi-

In “Experience” Richard Barthel-| fice which bears its given’s name. It}
tor of the church at Piedmont, S. C.,) mess as Youth did some good acting.| js a noble monument and has been|

for generations the center of college
life and activity. Here have been
formed Davidson customs and here
her traditions have grown, * *”

The Trustees’ record states ‘that
the building cost in round numbers
The stone pavement un-
der the portico was presented in 1885
by Rev. J. W. Davis, of China (1869),
who superintended the laying of the
stone, The original walnut doors
were replaced in 1912 by handsome
plate glass doors, a gift from the
class of 1907, under the leadership of
red Leroy Blythe.

Recitations were held first in the
building on January 6, 1860, and on
the 9th the first faculty meeting was
held there. On February 6th it was
decided to hold all religious serv-
ices in “the new chapel,” which
means the present Commencement

‘Tall, but there was soon a return to

more convenient if older’ quarters.
For its protection there was a regu-

jlation that there/should be no spit-

|PLANS FOR NEW AND
BETTER CHAMBERS

|
be made to relieve the crowded con-
|dition of the students just as soon
as possible. ;

Dr. Martin has labored incessant-

(Continued from page 1)

Two picture shows were one of | rooms, three laboratories, the beau- ‘ly since the first alarm of “fire” was

itiful commencement hall, and the) sounded
On Wednesday night experi- room long used as the library and/ing note to

ence’, was shown and “After the) which now houses the neglected mu-|o the Alumui:

He publishes the follow-
the Alumni of Davidson:

| The old Chambers building is a
total loss, but your old college is
;much alive,

| I wish you could have been pres-
ent at the “pep meeting” at 10:30 a.
im. the morning of the fire. Every
‘man was determined to go to work,
jmake the best of the situation, and
jhave this the best year in our his-
ltory in spite of the inconveniences.
| Through such an experience the
‘students will gain infinitely more
|than they will lose.

Of course the loss will more than
be made good—dormitoriés first. .\
heating plant, class and laboratory
buildings must be provided. The
oyal sons of Davidson will supply
the money, and much will be needed

how much we cannot say just at

{this moment. .\ committee has been
Fappointed with power to get the
campaign started among the alumni
and friends. A new dormitory and
heating plant is ordered at once. The
securing of experts to advise about
rebuilding Chambers, in the same
outer shape, if practicable, but the
jinterior remodeled to suit modern
ieducational demands, has been au-
| thorized.

20th. Ile has already reserved i) Crouch 718 —--- === == === Brady, ’21| ting on its floor, No lighted cigars | Plans will be secured as rapidly as
place in the Daviélson Class of 1943. Center - Gr liptits could be carted: to its; Possible. The money is the thing.
Maddrey is one of the leading alumni, Seyad, 17 -------------- White, 717) cupalo, On April 5th there eae Davidson College must not do other
of Winston-Salem, N.C. Ne Guard : ' | passed an edict to the effect that all than advance. The fire must be a
SS Howell, 715 Sa rs ad McKay, 16} ceupants of rooms should pay for[Mew Point of departure for greater
HERE AND THERE eee MC lackle ‘ ¥99|transoms and windows broken and things. , We are distressed but we
AMONG THE ALUMNI Walker, ‘19 ~---.----- Schenck, ’2 |the occupants of a floor were to pay [AT Not cast down, We fight through
pone ea |. 120 Ind Kees! 17\ jor the breakage of the -hall wind- ne fire to a Saas future,
Ben White, 1917, of Danielsville, |"P2™) ( ORE ERT oe 7) ows. The bursar wailed, almost f at ati sae sod and the sons
, : | t *rback lea ‘ ‘ ,: tant § oO1o avidson,
Ga,, was umpire of the Clemson-Da- | raninele 190" CS BTS Moone: 94 | from the, beginning, that “it is use-

vidson game last Saturday. Ben was|}-

one of the greatest centers in the
history of Davidson football, THe has |
recently been in the Asheville Hos:}
pital in Asheville, N.C.
= |

Dr. W. C. Von Glahn, 1911, is in|
charge of the autopsy department of)
the Presbyterian Hospital in New)
York City. |

Dr. W. L. Davidson, ex-1910, and!
his bride, were recently the guests!
of I B. Johnston, 1901, of Lincoln- |
ton, N.C.

R.A. Halliburton, ex-1917, is now |
in Berlin, 55 Charlotten Strasse. for)
the past four years he has been in the!
steamship business, serving consid-
erable time at sea, and is a licensed
marine engineer.

M. A. Thompson, ex-1920, won a,
fellowship at Princeton: University |
which provides a year of graduate
work in economics and sociology. A
part of his work includes the study
of and survey of the Poor Laws of}
the State of New Jersey.

Messrs. W. C. Frierson, 1918, W.;
C. Cumming, 1918, W. P. Cumming,
1921, W. L. Roddey, ex-1922, Smith}
Murphy, ex-1922, J. D. Warren, ex-|
1923, and William Coleman, ex-1924, |
are students at Princeton this year. |

Among the alumni on the hill Sat-}
urday were J. M. Gaston, ’21, H. P-|
Murray, ex-’21, J. R. McKeldin, ’21,|
J. P. Taylor, ’21, B. W. Romefelt, ’21, |
Joe Crayton, ex-’17, and R. C. Garth, |
719, who is with the Charlotte High
School this year.

FRIENDS OF MEN OUTSIDE
OF FRATERNITIES HERE

The visitors among the non-fra-
ternity men on the hill were:

Misses Evelyn Sadler, Pearl Ar-
cher, Idell Townsend, Louise Jen-
nings, Lucie Carter, Isabelle Knight,
Virginia Wilkins, Eleanor Gordon,
Eliza Moore, Margaret Smith, Dor-
othy Shaw, Rachel Strickland, and

less to put glass in the windows of

Right Halfback he long halls!”

Flowers, ’20 Johnson,
Left Halfback

Fullback

23]

Burns, 719 Walker, ’18| Miss McGhee, of Charlotte, was

the guest of Mrs. A, Currie during
the past week.

TWELVE SENIORS DELIVER

(Continued from page 1)

Fred Thompson, ’21, and his bride
were on the Hill for the week-end
noble ideals, Te made his point} festivities, .

strong that as a man thinks in his}y
heart, so is he,

We carry on. .
Yours in Alma Mater Bonds,
Wm. J. Martin, President.

When In Charlotte visit
Warren’s Service Barber Shop

Chamber Commerce Bldg.
W. 4th. St.

Say it with Flowers

SCHOLTZ, the Florist

Charlotte, N. C.
WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

L.A. ELLIOTT
SEE ME FOR YOUR FEEDS

I've got all the supplies
for them

FRUITS CANDIES
‘ PICKLES
SANDWICHES

“an’ everything”

Established 1873
A. H. Fetting Manufacturing
Jewelry Co.

Manafactarers

Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry ©

213 N. Liberty Street
BALTIMORE, MD.

Cluett,Peabody & Co.Inc. Troy. NY.

- Have those old shoes made
new by the

SHU-FIXERY

’ Charlotte, N. C.

Local agent
J. W. Phillips 75 Chambers

Pr. A. Freeman made a strong ap-
peal for a better school system for
this country. Te pointed out the!
fallacy of a democracy adopting the |
very undemocratic system of Ger-|
many. He showed good preparation |
and a thorough knowledge of his!
subject. “Ile took as his title “Tvent-
ually, Why Not Now ?” |

I. B.-MeGukin, speaking on the}
subject, “The Tree Wavings of Life,”
pointed out in a forcedgl manner}
that the little things of lif are what |
really make aman. If we get by the |
little things, the larger things will!
take care of themselves. |

“Burden Bearers” was the subject |
of G. N. Neel’s oration. This excel: |
lent subject was well handled, The
burden bearers of civilization, ac-
cording to this interpretation, are
the fathers and mothers of men. He}
made a special plea for more credit |
for the fathers who bear the heavyi
burdens silently.

T. H. Patterson used as his sub-|
ject, “His Bugle Calls.” He pointed
out some of the good wars had
brought and the way it had advanced
civilization. He made his finest ap-
peal for a lasting peace now and
gave the bugle call on a higher plane.

J. C. Wool, using as his subject,
“My Courrtry and Myself,” made an
appeal for an intelligent military
program for this country.

The last speaker was W. W.
Moore, who took as-his subject, “The
Making of a Man.” He _ showed
good preparation and made an ex-
cellent speech.

On the whole the speeches were |}
good and showed a variety of sub-
jects which pleased the audiences.
They were conspicuous for the ab-
sence of the usual sermons delivered

Ie

|
|

Ruling

‘Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.

Printers and Publishers

Loose Leaf Ledgers and Binders

We Specialize in High Class Work
If you want it printed detter

send it to us

Our Art Department

can originate, design, and execute pictures or drawings
of any kind to illustrate your idea

Ask Our Customers---They AreOur Best Ads

Binding

Ida McGukin.

at this time.

