4

> THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 17, 1921.

The DAVIDSONIAN
Me aoe

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

P. PRICE

jeauee Editor-in-Chief Forum Editor

ing Edit : S. CURRY. Editor
anaging. Editor - C BAILEY, JR....-.----Y. M._C. A. Editor
iment Editor 6 J. SPRUNT. -Social Editor
hletic Editor , H. OGDEN, JR. Literary Editor
Alumni Editor | W. J. COOPER. P y Editor
. McKEITHEN....-2.-.- Exchange Editor ¥
REPORTERS’ CLUB
BITZER, R., Pres. FEWELL, ED. MAUZE, G.. W., V.-Pres.
RADFORD, W. Z. GRACY, J. S. OORE,’ W, H.
ROWN, C. V. HESTON; WwW. ORRIS, H. M. Sec.-Treas.
BROWN, W. P. IVES, J.‘C. SMITH, Rk. -H.
CALHOUN, M. P. ‘ONES, EE LLER, C. D.
COX, W. M. ONES, RR: WALTHALL, D, B.
aE We BAe Wk WIEBHAN, &:
LLIO' . . . - , . .
Oe MAUZE, E. H.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

OOLsssssceccccccuse, Business Manager

+ C. We
L. A. TAYLOR, E. T. WOOLFOLK and W. S. SHEPARD Asst. Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
M. R. DOUBLES.......- Circulation Manager Assistants in Circulation De ment:
% dC, D, TULLER CS P. C. HENDERSON
Bee areca eet Cirgilation, Meathgers WATT McCAIN RL. PRICE

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL.

Student Body spirit is unquestionably a good thing, but when it
expresses itself by tearing up the benches in chapel during a pep meet-
ing it seems to us to be decidedly misplaced.

D.
The Armistice Day celebrations at Davidson were a great success,

and those in charge of the program for the day are to be congratulated
on the outcome of their efforts.

]

D

* “You are the sculptor of your own existence. The goal you set is
the model by which you work and the present is the clay with which
you are ever working.”

D:

In spite of the rules of the student body with regard to music on
the campus during study hours there are some few who persist in this
disturbance. It would seem that some step should be taken to enforce
the law, and prevent thse who wish to study from being annoyed in this
manner,

D.
What has become of thé old-fashioned freshman who used to spend
his time counting the days until Christmas?

D.
THE WILDCATS.

AVIDSON has long been proud of the reputation for pluck and
gameness which her teams have won and maintained in many a
hard fought contest, but never has she had more just cause for her

pride than today. During the past two weeks the Red and Black-has met
two of her oldest rivals on the gridiron, and each time the struggle
has ended in a draw, yet no score can tell the story of those two games.
On each occasion that band of eleven warriors met an opponent rated as
at least two touchdowns its superior, and in each case that opponent
was fortunate to leave the field undefeated. The result can be attributed
te nothing but the fighting spirit of Davidson—that spirit which has
rightly won for her team the name of Wildcats.

One of the leading newspapers of the state has written of this
spirit as being the best of any college in the South with the possible
exception of Centre. The article was a trilyite of which any team might
feel proud, and was appreciated at Davidson, but in our opinion it did
not go far enough. In the name of hundreds of alumni and students we
say, “Hats off to the team which for sheer fighting spirit is second to
none in the world—The Wildcats!”

D:
CLASS BASKETBALL.

This week will witness the final games of the race for inter-class
basketball honors, These contests have been attended with unusual in-
terest this fall, and enthusiasm has reached a high pitch in the various
classes. Never have larger crowds turned out to support their respect-
ive teams'and seldom has more cheering been heard in Davidson’s gym-
nasium than during the past month.

The rivalry that has been developed over these contests between the
classes is undoubtedly an excellent thing for the student body. in many
respects, and yet it may be well to pause and consider whether it is

not being allowed to go too far. So long as it tends to draw the mem-

bers of a class into closer fellowship and better spirit it is certainly a
thing worth encouraging, and it has undoubtedly served this purpose to
a certain extent. When this same rivalry reaches such a pitch that it is
the cause of genuine’ill feeling and unsportsmanlike conduct between
classes, however, it has gone too far. ‘Neither of these troubles has ac-
soeily eipested on the campus as yet, but several times there have been
serious threats of both. In view of this fact it behooves us all to see
‘that our class spirit does not run to seed, ;

Scareerntesy:”

Open Forum

Wake Up Davidson.

It is said that James Whitcomb Riley
is the only man to have had his birthday
declared a legal holiday while he was
living. And we all know that very few
men are ever given full. credit for their
achievements until after death.

terest to all Davidson men, both stu-
dents and alumni, to read the following
extract from the Raleigh News and
Observer:

“Admirers of former President Wilson
are planning to place a bronze tablet in
his honor in the room he occupied at the
University of Virginia. It is a most
worthy undertaking, and it is surprising
that it has not been thought of before.
That room housed as a college student
the greatest man in many ways that the
United States has produced.”

Must this great man, the most dis-
tinguished alumnus of our Alma Mater,
die without anything being done here
for her memory and glory? We do not
believe that Davidson men will allow such
an oversight to occur. For, let us re-
member that this is the school at which
he began his’college career and here, in
old Chambers, is a room which he also
occupied.

This situation seems to be a challenge
to every man of Davidson to get to
work and think of some way to honor
our former President. Shall his achieve-
ments go by without a sign of recogni-
tion here? Shall his old room in
Chambers continue to be only a room or
shall it hereafter be designated as the
room of Woodrow Wilson? If the latter
should become the case, would it not be
the spot of greatest interest in and
around Davidson?

Wake up, Davidson! Do something
for the honor and glory of Woodrow
Wilson. It will never cause regret!

‘ Lux.

D.

DR. WILLIAM H. WOODS TO
READ POEMS HERE TUESDAY

In Shearer Hall, Tuesday, the 22d, at|
7:30 p. m, Rev. Dr. William Hervey
Woods, of Virginia, will give readings
from his ow ems which have appear-
ed in Th ry, The Atlantic Month-
ly; and publications. Dr. Woods
isan ft Kentucky and a graduate
of Hi idney College and Union
‘Seminary. For many years
he was pastor of the Franklin Square
Presbyterian Church in Baltimore. At
the Centennial celebration, of Union
Seminary, in Richmond, in 1912, Dr.
Woods read the poem for the occasion.
A tour of colleges and universities of
the South Atlantic States is being ar-
ranged for Dr. Woods by an alumnus of
Davidson, Dr. D. P. McGeachy, of De-
catur, Ga. The local committee on ar-
rangements is sure the Davidson com-
munity will give Dr. Woods a hearty
reception Tuesday evening.
T).

GERMAN CLUB ORGANIZED AT

HOME OF DR. PETTINGILL

On Tuesday night of last week the
members of the advanced German classes
met at the home of Dr. Pettingill for the
purpose of organizing a German club.
Before the organization of the club was
undertaken, however, a delightful din-
ner was served, which was greatly en-
joyed by all present. £
. Following the dinner the plans for
the new club were begun. The name de-
cided upon was Das Deutchen Verein.
The officers elected’ were: President,
John Schenck; vice-president, J. P.
Price; secretary, W. L. Ramseur. The
present membership is about 15. The
club plans to meet every two weeks.

The object of Das Deutchen Verein is
not only for pleasure, but to study the
German language and customs. The
work of the club will be very interest-
ing, as German literature, arts,. and
sciences will be taken up and carefully
studied. :

D.

Mrs. T. T. Covington, Miss Emma
Neal Covington, and Mr. Griffin, of Lau-
rinburg, were guests of T. T., Jr. and
H. O. Covington, on’ Friday.

S

G. H. Cornelson, J. S. Curry, R. K.
Shaw, F. J. Wright, and F. S. Shaw,
were’in Lexington Thursday attending

the wedding of Fred Thompson, ‘21.

With this fact in mind, it may be of in- :

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

The Honor System.

‘The Richmond Cellegian, in a further
comment on the establishment of the
Honor System at Lynchburg College,
says that with real men a trial is all that
is necessary. The Honor System would
mean that every student is on his honor
to uphold the, integrity of the student
body. Its value is unquestioned.

Anyone who will cheat will lie or
steal. The slovenly or carleess student
would have to improve. The dishonest
student would have to straighten up im-
mediately “or get out. With the whole
student body a vigilance committee .to
guard its honor, there would be no
chance for the “crook” to “get by.”—The
Critagraph.

In Other Colleges.

The prize orchestra, known as the
Tar Baby Five, of the University of
North Carolina, according to The Tar
Heel, has been engaged by the excursion
steamer Guy Semijal, which is carrying
a group of Winston-Salem excursionists
for a tour of the Mediterranean.

The students and alumni of the Uni-
versity of Georgia have begun a drive
for a million-dollars, the purpose in
view being the erection of a million-dol-
lar memorial to the Georgia men who
lost their lives in the war.

There are now enrolled at the Uni-
versity of South Carolina, 575 students.
Last year this time 515 were enrolled.
By the end of the year everything points
to the largest student body in the his-
tory of the institution.

There are 86 Co-eds, 54 in the atademic
department, 15 graduates, .14 specials,
and three in the law school. The en-
rollment of the law school is now 114.

The Freshman class this year is the
best prepared class ever admitted to the
university. Everyone was admitted on
the minimum of 15 units. This should
be a banner year for Carolina.

What is the Y. M. C. A. doing in the
colleges? Virginia Tech had five hun-
dred enrolled at her first meeting. This
is typical of the other colleges in (pro-
portion to the number in school. Ev-
ery Exchange received has boosted the
“Y” as never before, whole columns be-
ing given over to the discussion of the
plans for the coming session, etc. It is
of interest to know that there are 1,-
500,000 members in this country with
300,000 organizations. — Richmond Col-
legian.

“What’s the matter with Jack, hasn't
he the sand to propose?”

“Oh, yes; but he hasn’t the rocks to
get married.”—Tartan. :

He—A fool used to blow out the gas.”
She—“And now?”
He—“He steps on
Campus Allegorycol.
T).

it.’—Burr.—The

DAVIDSON-CORNELIUS POST
HAVE ENJOYABLE BARBECUE

The Davidson-Cornelius Post of the
American Legion had as its special guest
and speaker “The Fighting Parson,” Dr.
Ben Lacy, of Atlanta, Ga. Dr. Lacy:
won. for himself that name by _his
bravery and courage on the front. In
the course of his speech he drew vivid
outlines and pictures of the horrors of
war and what the brave American sol-
dier faced in Flanders.

In the afternoon a big barbecue was
enjoyed by all the ex-service men at the
graded school. Dr. Lacy again paid a
fine tribute to the dead heroes who fell
in the last great struggle. As Dr. Lacy
began to speak everyone bowed his
head in silence and breathed a silent
prayer to God in gratitude and thanks-
giving for those who laid down their
lives that America might live.

After the speech everyone feasted to-
gether with the greatest enjoyment.
Everything that was good to eat was
there in abundance. Due credit must be
given the ladies of the auxiliary for
their splendid service in regard to it.

With Other Colleges

Liustshwemka Prominent in Politics a

N.C. C. W. $
Greensboro, N. C, Nov. 10—Miss |
Helen Fraser, of London, England,

Coalition Government candidate for thie
English House of Commons, addressed
the political science students of the
North Carolina College for Women, Sat-
urday, November 5th, on “The English
Constitution and Politics.” A large num-
ber of the students attended the lecture
delivered by Miss Fraser that night at
the O. Henry Hotel, on English Policies,
Politics, and Personalities.” Miss Fraser
spoke under the auspices of Woman’s
Club of which Miss Harriet Elliott, of the
N. C. C. W. Political Science Depart-
ment, is president.

Stunt Niight at Meredith is a Huge
Success.

Raleigh, N. C., Nov. 7—Meridith’s an-
nual Stunt Night was held in the col-
lege auditorium Saturday night, Novem-°
ber sth, under the auspices of.the
Athletic Association. Stunt Night was
established about eight years ago, and
is an annual event at Meredith. Each
class is allowed 15 minutes in which to
present an entirely original stunt:

After a few words of welcome from the
president of the Athletic “Association,
four little, ragged, dirty newsboys came
in yelling “Extra, Extra,” and distributed
programs for the Senior stunt.. This was
a funny paper, presenting Slim Gym,
Bringing Up Mable (the Freshmen),
Katch ’em Rats, and Si Cology, replete
with local color. Then came the Junior
stunt, a two-act play, “Cave Man” Styff,
showing how rough and ready methods
may be applied to present day situations.
The Sophomore stunt, heralded by cut-
out programs, consisted of a skit, “Lit-
tle Green Newish.” The speeches of
“Little Green Newish” were all in rhyme,
something of which no other skit pre-
sented could boast. The stunt of the
Freshman class: represented ‘an enter-
tainment of famous “movie” stars by the
faculty of Meredith. The actors and
actresses all looked their parts, while
the “take-off” of the members of the
faculty was excellent.

New York Peace Society Official Speaks
at N.C. C. W.

Greensboro, N. C., Nov. 10.—The Inter-
national Relations Club of the North
Carolina College for Women: had as a
speaker Tuesday, November 8th, Dr. C.
H. Levermore, secretary of the New
York Peace Society, who is sent out by
the Institute of International Education
to speak to the International Relations
Club of the various colleges.

Dr. Levermore spoke to the Interna-
tional Relations Club and History De-
partment Tuesday afternoon on the sub-
ject of “After War, Reconstruction,” and
on Tuesday evening on “Spiritual Recon-
struction.”

D.
- WINSTON ALUMNI

(Continued from page 1)

the guests of the alumni and turned the
officiating chair qver to Mr. John W.
Moore. From that time until 9 o’clock,
when the Davidson special set out for
home, the courses were interspersed
with talks from present Davidsonians
and former ones. Much to the pleasure
of everyone was the chief topic of dis-
cussion, that of making the banquet an
annual affair in the hope of taking in
the whole Davidson contingent that
should be .in Winston-Salem for the
Davidson-Carolina’ game. Dr. J.-M.
Douglas, Mr. Jackson, Dr. J. W. Mc-
Connell and Major Hearn all made talks
emphasizing the attraction Winston held
tor Davidson students and the hope that
in the future even two games could be
played in'the Twin City., Many of the
alumni present expressed themselves
as being well pleased with. the game and
with the spirit and fight displayed by
the Wildcats. Representing the stu-
dents, Coaches Grey and Black, and Doc
LaFar, Gig Shepherd and Spratt Moore
made lengthy and flowing orations
thanking the promulgaters of the feast
for their kindly benevolence in provid-
ing such a hearty repast. ;

After running a course of four laps,
each of which was interspersed with
“smokes,” the banquet was adjourned for
Ig2t, not, however, without giving “fif-
teen for Alumni.” :
