THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 14, 1921.

How-de do.

We are all back again and full of good
spirits—er—that is, we are feeling fine.

Our troubles have begun again.

Ain’t It the Truth!

A man should not be held responsible
for the haberdashery in which he blos-
soms forth after Christmas. The average
woman knows about as much about
selecting a man’s tie as a young pup
does about aviation.

Mose, not Moses—He Ain't Twins. |

Lee hands+out the information that
Mose Snowball was back at his peanut
parcher before we were at ours. Lee
says that he thinks Mose is the best
peanut parcher in town—but what do
we care what Lee thinks?

Take Thati—end Smoke It.
Rough—“Got any P. A.?”
Tumble—“I've got some P. A. but I’m

not P. 0.”

* A Correct Error.
Our Spring term fees contain an “in-
cindental” fee of $12.50. We think the
spelling is fine—there really is a sin in

it.

-- Don’t Say We Didn’t Tell You.
We find in our Law book a paragraph
which deals with “Infants, insane and
diunken persons, convicts, aliens and
married women.” Single girls would do
well to note the last item in this
classification—and beware.

Cassell flops.

We Forecast Spring.
Attention will now be turned from
full stockings to new hats.

Destined to Become a Classic.
“I am a man—and whatever pertains to
man is of interest to me.” C. J. Mat-
thews in a Charlotte girl's memory book.

Home Brew, Maybe.
Fat—“Meet my friend, Mr. Jones Ful-
ler.”
Sassy—“Mr. Jones—full o’ what?”

Toot, Toot, Toot, Toot.
(Blowing our own horn.)

We are not so modest that we hate to
see our own joke on the screen in the
Literary Digest “Topics of the Day,” but
we do hate to see another college pub-
lication get credit for it.

Mr. Helper says that nothing ever got
lost in the laundry unless it was brand
new. Our theory for explaining this
phenomenon is that once it gets thru
it can find its way next time unaided.
IT, in this case, means anything.

Notice.
The Macamac Co., is now only the
Camac Co. You don’t say it—you
sneeze it.

Too Bad.

About now we are beginning to see
the grave mistake made in eliminating
the course of Applied Paddle from the
college curriculum.

Statistics.

Ninety-three percent of the get-rich-
quick story writers spend their declining
years as guests of county or state. They

If a Little is Good, Then More is Better. | tried to practice what they preached.

Fresh—“Girls are like bananas.”

Soph—“How so?”

Fresh—“You can have a good time
with one but it’s ‘oh joy’ when you get
in a bunch.”

Sic Semper.
We're a liberty loving bunch. We
guess you've noticed what liberties we
take.

What Is Vacuum?

Ig. automobiles and wagons and people there would be collisions,
MB. confusion, and but little progress in any direction. His business
is to direct.

The physicist who tries to obtain a vacuum that is nearly perfect

[== traffic policeman did not hold up his hand and control the

? and Answer.

“Where the deuce does a girl get
vaccinated now so that it won't show?”
—Minneapolis Tribune.

We suggest trying the ears; we've
never seen them. .

Fitting.

Looks like the N. Y. police came very
near getting the Mayor of Cork in a
bottle. They did have him sticking in a
‘cooler’ for a while.

Economy of Words.
He drugget out and beat it.

Davidsonian reporters organize—an-
other laborless union. They advocate
shorter write-ups and® individualism in
spelling.

If he is her'n, is she his'’n?
Horsed.
Senior Manning—“I think I'll put on a
fresh collar this morning.”
Fresh Roommate—“Sorry, but mine
are all to small.”

ignorance Ie Blise. (By Spasms.)
Spacm I.

We know we're awful ignorant,
Of things around us ‘bout,

Like where the soles of our shoes go,
And why can’t you turn in out?

Spaem Il..

We think we'd like to hear some day,

The tune of our collar band.

Did anyone while serving board,
Run splinters i his hand.
Spaem III.
Who was the harsh, inhuman brute,
That gave the window pane?
And who was it that drove the good
Old crazy-quilt insane?

Last Spasm of the Same Fit.
We hear of men who shoot the Bull,
And then fling it around;
It soars up high into the air,
Where does the Bull come down?

Let’s quit here—even if you haven't
anything else to do, we have. Ta-ta.

SALESMEN WANTED-—Get busy. Keep
busy. Is your job unsafe? Is it permanent?
You want a Iifclong business. You can get
fato such a business selling more than 137
Watkins Products direct to farmers if you
owm auto or team or can get one; if you
can give bond with personal sureties. We
back you with big selling helps. 52 yeare
in business; 20,000,000 users of our products.
Write for information where you can get
territory. J. R. Watkins Co., Department
C, Winona, Minnesota,

Say it with Flowers

SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.
JETTON DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

EVER-STICK PATCHING
STICK and STAY STUCK

“If you want it off, do not put it on”

Specially prepared for Inner Tubes,
Rubber Boots, Coats and Hats-—
anything made of rubber.

Ask your dealer for Ever-Stick.

If

he can’t supply send 50c in stamps

and I will send
mail postpaid.

you a package by

has a problem somewhat like that of the traffic policeman. Air is
composed of molecules—billions and billions of them flying about
in all directions and often colliding. The physicist’s pump is designed
to make the molecules travel in one direction—out through the
exhaust. The‘molecules are much too small to be seen even with a
microscope, but the pump jogs them along and af least starts them in
the right direction. ; ‘

A perfect vacuum would be one in which there is not a single free
molecule.

For over forty years scientists have been trying to pump and jog
and herd more molecules out of vessels. There are still in the best
vacuum obtainable more molecules per cubic centimeter than there
are people in the world, in other words, about two billion. Whenever
a new jogging device is invented, it becomes possible to eject a few
million more molecules.

The Research Laboratories of the General Electric Company have
spent years in trying to drive more and more molecules of air from
containers. The chief purpose has been to study the effects obtained,
as, for example, the boiling away of metals in a vacuum.

This investigation of high vacua had unexpected results. It
became possible to make better X - ray tubes — better because the
X-rays could be controlled; to make the electron tubes now so essen-
tial in long-range wireless communication more efficient and trust-
worthy; and to develop an entirely new type of incandescent lamp,
one which is filled with a gas and which gives more light than any of
the older lamps.

No one can foretell what will be the outcome of research in pure
science. New knowledge, new ideas inevitably are gained. And
sooner or later this new knowledge, these new ideas find a practical
application. For this reason the primary purpose of the Research
Laboratories of the General Electric Company is the broadening of

human knowledge.

General@eElectric
General Office COM any Schenectady, N.¥.

Qeeecocccoccoccocscccooocoscoococs

Jj. S. WINGO

Wholesale Accessories Spartanburg, S. C.

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY
REGISTERED PHARMACISTS

We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery and
Toilet Articles

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

Union Theological Seminary
Mr, Snapshot Sas: KODAK DEVELOPING
For College Students Is Our Specialty
prints repr neat in photoBraphic art. No extra charge for plossy finish.
GOODHART-TOMPKINS Co., Atlanta, Georgia

W. W. Moore, D.D., LL.D., President
== tnind like rapidity of service makes distence no disadvantage. Our
DAVIDSON COLLEGE

DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped

| Laboratories |
