THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 3, 1921. °

ALUMNI NEWS

Major General William A. Smith, '64,
of Ansonville, N. C., has been recently
appointed commander of the North
Carolina division, United Confederate
Veterans. He succeeds General James
I. Metts, who died recently. He was

appointed to this high office by General |

Julian S. Carr, commander of the De-
partment of Northern Virginia, U. C. V.
General Smith is an unreconstructed
rebel and though he lost a leg at Mal-
vern Hill, he has never had cause to
regret being a Confederate soldier.

As a boy of 18 he enlisted with the
Anson Guards, at Wadesboro, in June,
1861, and served with distinguished .gal-
lantry in every battle until July 1, 1862.
On that day Malvern Hill was assailed
by the Fourteenth North Carolina regi-
ment, which had never before met de-
feat. In that unavailing charge General
Smith fell, severely wounded.
~ Edmund F. Fenton, a private in the
Anson Guards, picked up the desperate-
ly wounded youth and bore him to the
rear. Careful nursing kept him alive,
but left him a cripple for life.

‘Starting in the mercantile business at

now owns. His parents were wealthy
and he was given the best education
possible. -He came to Davidson and was
making fine progress in the Sophomore
class when in April, 1861, he enrolled as
a soldier of the South. After his splen-
did record in the war he set himself to
do equally as well in peace. After realiz-
ing a handsome fortune from his mer-
cantile business, he closed out his store
and entered the larger field of manufac-
turing. He became president of the Yad-
kin Falls Manufacturing Company. and
of the Eldorado Cotton Mills, and presi-
dent of the Carolina Construction Com-
pany. He is one of the board of man-
agers of Thompson Orphanage, and for
éleven years he has been a trustee of
the University of the South at Sewanee.
He rariks high in Masonic circles and is
a noted public welfare worker. He has
llalso compiled and edited a history of
|the Anson Guards, the company of which
|he was a member.

| D.

| HERE AND THERE

AMONG THE ALUMNI

BELK BROS. CO.

BELK BROS. CO.

Greatest Economy Clothing Sale

$250,000 worth of Men’s and Boys’ Clothing, Furnishings, Hats, Caps
and Shoes in this, the most timely and unusual Sale since the War

LOT NO.1
Men’s and Young Men’s fine French back Worsted
Serge and Cashmere Suits, made in regulars, young
men’s, slims, stouts, long stouts and D. B. models.
We sold these same suits for $49.50. Our today
prices —-.__- $29.50 and $25.00

; LOT NO. 2
500 Men and Young Men’s all pure worsted Serge and
Cashmere Suits, made in single and double breasted
models, values up to $30.00. Today’s price

LOT NO. 3
Men and Young Men’s and Students all wool Serge
and Cashmere Suits, single and D. B. models. The
very newest thing in patterns and material.
up to $25.00. Special
MEN’S OVERCOATS, $19.95
One big special lot Men’s Overcoats, colors, black,
brown and gray, made of Kersey matertal, made in
medium andvextra length, extra value. Special $19.95
Big lot Men’s Overcoats, made in all styles and pat-
terns, at $9.95, $12.95 and $15.00
MEN’S HAND-TAILORED OVERCOATS
Men’s hand-tailored Overcoats, made by New York’s
biggest and best pare rar We including the new

Values
1

plaid back material at $25.00, $29.50, $35.00 and $39.50 —

Ansonville, General Smith
attention to his work succeeded in be-| burn, ’10, has advanced to the district
coming prosperous in later years. | managership of the Southeastern States

General Smith’s acceptance of the new|of the Addressorgraph Company. .His
honor is contained in his first order, as| office address is 63 N. Pryor St., Atlanta,
follows: | Ga,

Lieutenant General Julian S. Carr has |
promoted me to the rank of major gen-| Chas. Foreman, ’19, and his bride, mo-
cral and appointed me as successor to|tored up to Davidson last Saturday to
our lamented General Metts. visit old friends. Mr. Foreman is now

Owing to bodily infirmities I hesitated| with the Southern Power Company,
te accept this distinguished honor, but| Charlotte, N. C.
yielding to your insistence I assume the |
command of the veterans of that great |

Prof, A. Currie, ’97, motored to Moores-

by cru Another Davidson man, W. F. Mil-]

MEN’S UNDERWEAR AND HOSIERY  .
500 dozen Men's Ribbed and Fleeced Lined Shirts and
Drawers. Sale price - sink 50c each
Men’s $1.50 Egyptian Ribbed Union Suits. Special $1.00
Men’s $1.00 quality Egyptian Ribbed Shirts and Draw-
ers. Our Special i

Price 65c

Men’s fine Spring Needle Ribbed and Fine Fleeced
Shirts and Drawers. Special Bc, $1.25
Sizes up to 52.

Men’s fine Spring Needle Ribbed Union Suits, also
Fleece’ Lined $1.25, $1.45, $1.95
25 dozen Men’s Medium Weight. Short-Sleeve, Ankle
Elastic Union Suits. Special 98c
Men’s Outing Night Shirts, at $1.00, $1.48, $1.98
Men’s S0c first quality Men’s Sox, all colors. Sale Price
; : 25c; 6 pair $1.50
Men’s 50c Silk Plaited Soxs at ----35c pair; 3 pair $1.00
Men’s Thread Silk Sox, all colors. Sale Price 50c
Men’s 35c Sox, all the leading colors, at 25e; 5 pair $1.00
Big lot Men’s Caps, just closed out at a big reduction,
all the new shapes and colors 48c, 98c, $1.48, $1.98
MEN’S FINE SHIRTS AT SPECIAL PRICES.
100 dozen Men’s fine Madras Shirts, made with French
cuff. Special $1.00
Men’s $1.50 Shirts, plain and fancy patterns, cut full
and well made. Special : 89c
Also neat patterns with French cuffs and with extra
collars, full made. Sizes. 13 1-2 to 20. Our Special
$1.50
$3.00 value white Oxford Cloth College Boys’ Shirts.
Special A
Big lot Lion Brand’ Shirts, just closed out, beautiful
patterns and fast colors, at $1.50, $2.00, $2.50 and $3.00
Men’s Silk Shirts, made in the newest patterns,

MEN’S SHOES

We have just received a new and complete shipment of
Bion F. Reynolds Shoes, all sizes and: widths.
Pricenmess sane = $11.95
Also a complete line of Ralston Shoes for men, all sizes
and styles. Price $9.95
One lot of Men’s tan and black English and blucher.
Value $9.50 and $10.00. We are selling this baa
95

$3.95, $4.95, $5.95

“One look at the prices and values we are giving during this Economy Sale,” will quickly convince you of

the absolute truth of this statement.
and save money. We fill promptly.

state which furnished more troops to
the Confederacy than any other state,
of whom 42,000 never came back again,

ville last Saturday. Dr. J. M. McCon-
nell, ’99, and family were in Mooresville
shopping, and F. L. Jackson, '06, was

We will save $10 to $25 on every suit. Send us your mail orders

BELK BROS. CO. aiariotte, n.c.

exceeding the loss of any two other) there on business.

states; and which was First at Bethel,

farthest at Gettysburg and Last at Ap-
pomattox,

General Smith was born January 11,
1843, on the banks of the Pee Dee River,
at the old Helms homestead, which he

CHARLOTTE
T RANSFER COMPANY

Phone 298:

JAKE MARTIN, . Manager

Have those old shoes made
new by the

SHU-FIXERY

Charlotte, N. C.

Local agent -
J. W. Phillips 75 Chambers

“atter Every Meal”

WRIGLEYS

Everything for QUALITY
—nothing for show

HAT’S. OUR IDEA in making

CAMELS—the Quality Cigarette.

Why, just buy Camels and look at the package!
It’s the best packing science has devised to keep
cigarettes fresh and full flavored for your taste.
Heavy paper outside—secure foil wrapping inside
and the revenue stamp over the end to seal the pack-

age and keep it air-tight.

And note this! There’s nothing flashy about the
Camel package. No extra wrappings that do not
improve the smoke. Not a cent of needless expense
that must come out of the quality of the tobacco.

Camels wonderful and exclusive Quality wins on
merit alone.

Because, men smoke Camels who want the
taste and fragrance of the finest tobaccos, expertly
blended. Men smoke Camels for Camels smooth,
refreshing mildness and their freedom from ciga-

retty aftertaste.

Camels are made for men who think for them-

selves.

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO. COMPANY, \Winston-Salesy HM. Cy

White’s Meat Market

BEST FRESH MEATS
DELIVERED

Phone DAVIDSON, N. C.

Johnson’s Barber Shop

The Home of Comfort-_
able Hair Cuts and
Shaves

We want your business and you need
our service

RALPH W. JOHNSON, Proprietor

L.A. ELLIOTT
SEE ME FOR YOUR FEEDS

I've got all the supplies
for them

FRUITS CANDIES
PICKLES
SANDWICHES

* “an’ everything”

‘ Established 1873
A. HL. Fetting Manufacturing
Jewelry Co.

Manafactarers
Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry

% - 213,N, Liberty Street
BALTIMORE, MD.

