4

The DAVIDSONIAN

a
Member of North Carolina | Intercollegiate Press Association Association

FOUNDED IDED BY CLASS OF "ng
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: .
10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

——————————
All Artictes for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before
12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

J. E. CASSELL_.....-.-.------------------------------------ Editor-in-Chief
J. RDS__..W..-- ~~ - += 3-2 nn nee ene gene. ---Managing Editor
A. P. ORMOND......_-...--.-- Assistant Managing Editor
J. P. PRICE__.---------..-------------------------- <== == 2 === Assignment Editor
-M. R. DOUBLES..... weneennsnececcsecsccnncneuee. Athletic Editor
J. H. McKEITHEN...-...-----~------ --Alumni Editor
J. C. MeCASKIL penance mnncaceccencccecececencer-nsen------Exchange Editor
J. R. BOULWARE..____...-----------. ----------------—----------Forum Editor

M. DUNLAP....._.-~....---~--------- 22 - enone == ===: -Campus Editor
b. Ww. DOB ER TS nnn. M. C. A. Editor
HL A. HILL......-------..--------~~-------- ------.-Social Editor
jJ. M GASTON, R..-. ---~-------Literary Editor
R R. MciLWA eocecace----------------Official Photographer

CLUB

REPORTERS’

Bailey, J. C. King, A. D. Ogden, D. H.
Bitzer, R. Lacy, t ‘ Ormond, A. C.
Long, Phillips, J. W.
Cooper, W. J. Mahood, D. L. illips, J
Cunningham, C. E. Sprunt, J.
Mauze, G. W.
Davidson, R. F. Mitchell, A. M. Summers, A. C.
Gamble, W. A. Morris, H. M. Tuller, C. D.
Jones, J. R. Lowrance, D. W. Wool, J. C.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

Cc. I. MATTHEWS...---.--------------- wecsence----s---e---- Business Manager
E. A. NASH mov eannanannwececnccococeceeccocernnsseenne= Assistant Managers
J. S. CURRY

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
Cc wen eeeennnneeeen---eeenee-------Circulation Manager

am

Cc a donmnnwnn Assistant Manager
Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

AST Sunday .at church during the final prayer the rustling made
L by the students in putting on their overcoats was so noticeable as
to disturb the solemnity of the service. We do not believe in a
religion of long faces and long prayers, but we are convinced that quiet-
ness should be maintained during such services. There is no need of all
this rush, for dinner is not served for some time afterwards. . Consider
the effect of your actions on other people and decide to do the Tight
thing.

J.

D———_

The Glee Club seems to have been gleefully received everywhere
on the recent trip. We are glad to learn of the splendid success of this
organization as it is only another means of letting the outside world
know what Davidson is.

p—————

Some enterprising student ought to open a safety pin shop.
There is a great future for such a business on the campus since the laun-
dry “debuttoner” is still working overtime.

————__ 0”
WE NEED A WIRELESS STATION.

HERE is no disputing the question that any up-to-date college is

I seriously considering the installing of a wireless station. Several

of the larger institutions, such as Virginia, Auburn, North Caro-

lina, and others, are already equipped. and are using this means to scat-

ter broadcast the daily news of their colleges. It is an excellent plan

to put the school “on the map.” The Orange and Blue of Auburn ex-

presses it thus: “Our plant 1 1s working for and boosting Auburn all the
time, in its own wireless way.’

Our publication would gladly undertake the installation of such a
station were it not for a matter of finances. To overcome this difficulty
we would suggest that the Physics Department of our institution take
this matter ffnder consideration to be used in connection with its electri-
cal course. In this way it can serve a double purpose and be a great as-
set in many ways. The practical operation of the wireless offers no ob-
stacles as we have a radio man of several years’ experience in college.
We trust that the Dean of the Physics Department will soon become
actively interested in this matter.

——____)D—______
THE NEW JUNIOR SPEAKING.

Junior Speaking for this year is hailed with greater joy than ever
before for two reasons. The first is that there will not be the agony of
long public exercises entailed upon both speakers and hearers. The sec-
ond reason is the stand that the Junior Class is taking to rejuvenate the
social activities held at this season. This body of students is to be con-
gratulated upon this move that is so essentially democratic in its pur-
pose and scope. The social life of our campus is by far too limited, and it
is high time it is being taken from the hands of the few and put into the
hands of the many.

To insure the success of this new plan there must be the co-opera-
tion of every student,on the campus. No individual organization can
afford to run counter to this movement. The fraternity and non-fra-
ternity men must remember only that they are Davidson men united
in giving to our campus a season of social life that will bring whole-
some pleasure to all. Every man has been cordially asked to invite a gir

_l to the forensic exercises to be-the guest of the Junior Class. The
“more the merrier, and greater will be the success of the New Junior
| Spealcing.

[ Open Forum |

J. R. Boulware, Editor.

“AN ODE TO THE GIRL.”
(By one of the Boys).

Little girl, you are so small,
Don’t you wear no clothes at all?
Don’t you wear no shimmy shirt?
Don’t you wear no “petti skirt?”

Just your corset and your hose—
Are those all your underclothes?

Little Girl, you are so slight
When I see you in the light.

With your skirts cut rather high.
Won't you catch a cold and die?

Aren't you ‘fraid to show your calf?
It must make the fellows laugh.

Little girl, what is the cause?

Why your clothes all made of gauze
Don't you wear no undervest

When you go out fully dressed?

Do you like those peek-a-boos
‘Stead of normal underclothes?

Little girl, your ‘spenders show
When the sunshine plays just so.

I can see your tinted flesh

Through your thinnest gown of mesh;

4s it modest do you s’pose,

Not to wear no underclothes?

I can see way past your throat

To a region most remote;

’Taint my fault, now, don’t suppose,

Why not wear some underclothes?

Little girl, your socks have shoals

Of those tiny little holes;

Why you want to show your limb

I do not know; is it a whim?

Do you want to catch the eye
Of the fellows passing by?

Little girl, where is the charm
In your long, uncovered arm?

And the “V” behind your neck—
Is it for the birds to peck?
Little girl, I tell you those
Are not as nice as underclothes.

itl
Hi
'

; 4 2 U i "

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 25, 1921.

Little girl, now listen here:
You would be just twice as dear

If you’d cover up your charms—
Neck, back, legs and both your arms.

I would take you to some shows
If you'd wear some underclothes ;
But no lover—goodness knows—
Wants a girl “sans” underclothes.

Little girl, your, mystery,
Loving charms and modesty
Are what makes us fellows keen
To posses a little queen.

S'pose I wore some harem pants,
Or no shirt like all my aunts,

Or a ringlet through my nose—
They'd arrest me, don’t you s’pose?

I must wear a coat of mail,
Clothed from head to big toe nail;
I must cover up my form
Even when the weather’s warm.
——_ p> —_____
CHECKER TOURNAMENT
NOW IN PROGRESS

Considerable interest is being mani-
fested in the progress of the checker
tournament. When the call went out
for movers of the red and black discs,
25 men responded and since Monday
the elimination contests have been tak-
ing place each afternoon in the “Y”
room at the gymnasium. In the pre-
liminary contests three out of five games
have been necessary to keep in the run-
ning, but in the semi-finals and finals it
will be four out of seven.

The committee in charge are: W. P.
Nesbit, J. C.: McCaskill and H. E. Lewis.
It is a little early to pick the winners
but Lewis, O. E. Massey, Norman, Shep-
ard, Nesbitt, and Steel are each attract-
ing followers who say little but look
wise when “champion” is mentioned.
Checkers have become quite a favorite
this spring, giving horse-shoes a close
race for popularity and the college best
will be an honor well worth possessing.
Announcement of the finals will be made
next week.

—__)D—____
On last Tuesday Mrs. Hearn enter-
tained with an afternoon tea in honor
of her friend, Mrs. Watson.

ik

its Mle

= d

>

ee mean actaey

VANDERBILT TO VOTE
UPON THE FEE SYSTEM
The Student Council of Vanderbilt
University is attempting to have the
students pass a Student Activity Fee
similar to the blanket fée used here at
Davidson. The proposed system which
they wish to put before the Board of
Trustees is a fee amounting to fifteen
dollars, which is apportioned among the
various student activities —Vanderbilt
Hustler.

AGNES SCOTT ESTABLISHES

INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS CLUB
Agnes Scott College has established a

branch of the International Relations

Club. Miss Hearon is the supervisor of

the club and it is made up of members
of the History 9 class. Already the club
has arranged for two speakers, Bishop
Nicholai, of the Greek Orthodox Church,
is to speak on Serbia, March 3d, and
Prof. William Kimball, of Smith Col-
lege, will speak on the Mexicon situa-
tion, March 3oth.

TED SULLIVAN HERE TO HELP
COACH WAKE FOREST TEAM
Ted Sullivan, famous lecturer on base-
ball, and veteran of the diamond, is com-
ing to Wake Forest and is planning to
spend a month helping Coach White put
out the best baseball team that ever
went forth from this institution —Old
Gold and Black. °

STUDENT VOLUNTEERS
OF VIRGINIA MEET
The Annual Convention of the Stu-
dent Volunteers of Virginia was held
this year at Roanoke College, Salem,
from the 18th to the 20th of this month.
—The Ring-Tum Phi.

We notice that State College is send-
ing a chicken judging team to the Na-
(Continued on page 5)

i

Y

wh,
‘

i

DS "T take a fellow’s pipe. Take some other possession.
Because wrapped up in his pipe is a fellow’s peace of
tind, his relaxation, his contentment. This is more than
true if it’s a W DC Pipe, because then a guod smoke is multi-
plied many times over. Our special seasoning process takes
care of this by bringing out all the sweetness and mellowness
of the genuine French briar. Just you go to any, good dealer
and select several good shapes. Put them in your rack.
Smoke a cool one every time, and you'll be well on your
way to pipe-happiness.

Wm. DEMUTH & CO.. NEW YoRK

WORLD'S LARGEST PIPE MANUFACTURERS

An i
"I ki

