THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 11, 1921.

WITH THE OTHER COLLEGES.

(By Intercollegiate Preis News Service)

SALEM TO ELECT
STUDENT BODY OFFICERS

Salem College—Election of officers of
the Student Self-Government Associa-
tion for the coming year will be held on
Monday, March atst, the Monday before
the Easter holidays begin. The Student
Council has submitted the names of the
two girls it considers the best fitted can-
didates for president, Misses Sarah
Boren, of Greensboro, and Gertrude
Coble, of Burlington. Other names may
be added on petition to the council sign-'
ed by 20 students. Excitement prevails,
suspense is in the air; opinions are al-

One of che best-known ways of tor-|]worthy of such an accomplished hos-

turing one’s wife is to take company |tess—Boston Evening Transcript.

home to dinner unexpectedly. Judge
Blank was in the habit of doing this, and
on one occasion he received a very neat
little lesson from his wife.

The judge had arrived home with three
legal friends, and that day the larder
was unusually empty. His wife preserv-
ed her equanimity, however, and man-
aged somehow to get up a rather skimpy
meal. But when the dinner was over,
she said, “Gentlemen, I wish to say one
word. You have dined today with the
judge. Will you do me the honor of
dining tomorrow with me?”

The point was quickly appreciated, her
invitation cordially accepted, and the
next day they all sat down to a dinner

Reversal of Form.

Young Daughter—But, mother, I’m old
enough now to wear short skirts !—New
York World.

SALESMEN WANTED—Get busy. Keep
busy. Is your job unsafe? Is it perma-
nent? You want a lifelong business.
You can get into such a business selling
more than 137 Watkins Products direct
to farmers if you own auto or team or
can get one; if you can give bond with
personal sureties. We back you with
big selling helps. 52 years in business;
20,000,000 users of our products. Write
for information where you can get ter-
ritory. J. R. Watkins Co. Department
C, Winona, Minnesota.

Davidson College Glee Club.

SPRING TERM OFFICERS
INSTALLED IN
BOTH LITERARY SOCIETIES

“Resolved, That the U. S. Should
Adopt Some Form of Sales Tax,”
Was the Subject D Debated in Both

Phi. Society.
March 3—Regular Debate.
Affirmative. Negative.

J. I. Knight C. W. Robinson

A. S. McIlwaine J. H. McRainey

R. M. McGirt E. N. Peeler
Extemporaneous Debate.

J. C. Wool D. W. Roberts

A week ago last Thursday night, in the
Phi Society, the officers for the spring
term were installed after the regular
program.

The president announced the subject
for debate as “Resolved, That the United
States should adopt some form of sales
tax.”

The affirmative, led by McCain, de-
fended the issue on the grounds that this
would be more economical; that this
would equalize taxation; and that other
countries have found it to be satisfac-
tory.

Fricker led the negative in opposing
a sales tax because: the present system
is adequate; this tax would be unfair to
the consumer; the existing system hits
the rich in proportion to their wealth.

The decision was two for the negative.

In the extemporaneous debate Hadley
Hilt argued that it was best for all con-
cerned to leave the light on all night.
But Ralph Freeman proved conclusively
that this was a bad policy both economi-
cally and.psychologically.

W. C. Smith gave a running sketch of
military training at Davidson from his
Freshman year down to the present
time.

“The Race Problem in the South,” by
Henry W. Grady was very well deliver-
ed by J. L. McLean.

After reports from retiring officers, C.
K. Brown was installed as president for
the coming term.

In his inaugural address he expressed
his appreciation to the society for the
highest honor in the gift of the society,
and also his determination to maintain
the standards set by the retiring officers.

As soon as a few business matters
were attended to, the society adjourned.

Eu. Society.

The regular meeting of the Eu. Society
was somewhat delayed Saturday night
on account of the movies and was not
called to order until 10 o'clock.

The first part of the meeting was
taken up in the installation of officers
for the third term, being the first ex-
ercise of this kind to be carried out un-
der the new laws of the present consti-
tution. The vice-president escorted the
incoming president, A. M. Mitchell, to
the chair, where the oath of office was
administered by the retiring president,
J. R. Boulware. Mitchell then made a
short inaugural speech and the new of-
ficers took the platform.

The question for debate, “Resolved,
That the United States should adopt
some form of sales tax,” was upheld on
the affirmative by W. C. Carr, J. W. Long
and J. W. Cooper; and on the negative
by W. T. Elliott, C. F. Teag and F. L.
Fraser. The debate showed good prep-
aration by all of the speakers but very
little convincing argument was brought

out on either side. The judges decided
in favor of the negative.

The president announced that the Ju-
nior class had requested that every
member of the society attend the Junior
Speaking and also the reception to be
given in the gym Saturday night.

Two medals are given each spring by

the society. The Essay medal is given

to any member writing the best original
essay. The Fresh-Soph Debater's medal
is open only to Freshmen and Sopho-
mores and is given to the winner of the
Fresh-Soph debate. Both of these con-
tests will be held in the near future and
ye mighty orators and wielders of the
pen would do well to keep them in mind.
-——_p—.____.
SIGMA UPSILON HOLDS
JOINT MEETNG
WITH BOOKLOVERS’ CLUB

Ladies of Town Serve Refreshments
to Literary Organization of
the College.

The Sigma Upsilon Literary Fratern-
ity and the Book Lovers’ Club held a
joint meeting last Tuesday night in the
Civic League Hall.

The literary program was carried out
by members of Sigma Upsilon. Original
poems were read by W. P. Cumming and
D. L. Mahood. D. M. Chalmers. read
several letters from a former Davidson
student to a friend. These letters gave
a striking picture of Davidson College
as it was in the earlier days of its ex-
istence. Prof. E, J. Erwin read an in-
teresting paper on the tendencies of
modern poetry, giving as examples the
poems that won first prizes in a national
contest held recently. J. M. Gaston
read a short story.

After the literary program, delightful
refreshments, consisting of a salad
course, sandwiches and coffee, prepared
by members of the Book Lovers’ Club,
were served. Music was _ furnishe
throughout the evening by an orchestra
composed of Miss Hattie Thompson,
pianist; D. R. Freeman, cornet; C. E.
Cunningham, violin, and W. S. Buchan-
an, saxophone.

This meeting ,the first joint meeting of
the two organizations, was a most en-
joyable one, and it is hoped that another
will soon be arranged.

——___ _—__—__
Up-to-Date Wedding Gifts.

“Well, what sort of wedding presents
did you get, girlie—the usual assortment
of berry spoons and pickle forks?”

“Not on your esteemed life. I got a
sack of potatoes, four frozen fresh eggs,
a peck of onions, and a Liberty bond.”—
Louisville Courier-Journal.

D—__...

A little girl had been taken to church
for the first time, and she was somewhat
surprised by the general style of the
building, which was quite unlike any-
thing she had previously seen. “Whose
house is this?” she asked.

“It is God’s house,” her mother an-
swered. The child took another critical
view of the building. “It is a very nice
house,” she finally soliloquized. “We
have never called here before."—Sel.

“Well, well,” said the pompous doctor,
“and how has our little one been in the
interim?”

“Oh,” replied the anxious mother, “she
hasn't complained of that at all; it’s her
stomach that pains her today.”—Ex.

ready being expressed, and “stump”
speeches are being made in favor of the
candidates.

Salem's “most modern convenience” is
an A-1 tea room, which is appropriately |
called “Ye Orange Candle Waffle Shop.” :
In structure this shop is a cottage typi-
cal of ‘Revolutionary days. The cool
buff color of the inside walis blends with
the deep brown shade of the doors, and
the dainty orange curtains and brown
draperies at the windows are in perfect
harmony with the color scheme. The
fire burning on the tiny hearth, with
cozy green-covered box seats on cither
side, beckons to each passerby. The
shop is open every afternoon for two
hours and until 10 o’clock Saturday
night. Delicious waffles, tea with but-
tered toast, hot chocolate with pure
cream, and coffee, are found on the
regular menu, but there are “extras”
Saturday night.

D

WAKE FOREST TO DEBATE
THREE COLLEGES THIS SPRING

Wake Forest. — Wake Forest will
debate three colleges this  spring—
Davidson, Baylor University, and Mer-
cer University. The first of these series
of debates will be staged with Davidson
and will: probably be held in Raleigh or
Greensboro, having as the subject, “Re-
solved, That the United States should
cancel the loans made to her allies dur-
ing the Great War,” Wake Forest up-
holding the negative. The second de-
bate, with Baylor University, will be held
in Chattanooga, Tenn., before the South-
ern Baptist Convention, and has as its
query, “Resolved, That presidential and
vice-presidential candidates of the sev-
eral parties should be nominated by a
national direct primary,” with the af-
firmative being maintained by Wake
Forest. The last of the debates will be
with Mercer and held at Macon, Ga.,
with a question of “Resolved, That
American industries should adopt the
closed shop.”

UNIVERSITY SUMMER
SESSION PROSPECTS GOOD

Chapel Hill — Recent developments
justify the belief that the summer ses-
sion, beginning June 2tst of this year,
will be a very successful one. Mr. Walk-
er, director, is at Harvard on leave, but
will return in time to assume his for-
mer duties.

Carolina’s baseball schedule for 1921
includes a three-day stay in Gotham and
games with Georgetown, V. M. I. Mary-
land, Fordham, N. Y. U., C. C. of N. Y.,
and Swarthmore, besides a game with
Virginia and several games with the
North Carolina colleges: Wake Forest,
Trinity, State, Davidson, and Guilford.

——__—_)D—_____
CHURCH LEAGUE SECRETARY
TO VISIT N.C. C. W.

Greensboro — Dr. Richard Wallace
Hogue, Executive Secretary of the
Church League for industrial Democ-
racy, spent March 6th, 7th and 8th at the
N. C. College. He delivered three lec-
tures and conducted conferences with
individual students.

——___”D--+_____
GUILFORD RAISES ATHLETIC
ASSOCIATION FEE

Guilford—At a recent mass meeting of
the young men, the annual fee of the
Athletic Association was raised from
five to ten dollars.

A delegation from Erskine College,
Due West, S. C., including the president
of the college, visited Guilford last week
to inspect the college dormitories.

—__—_ )__—__

Mary Garden, world-famed opera and
movie star, recently said in regard to
prohibition: “I hope the whole world
goes dry. Prohibition is a good thing
for this country, and it will be a good
thing for the world. I mean it.”

J. B. Readling, Cornelius, N. C., Writes Insurance

He wants your business. He represents
only the best companies and has every
facility for meeting your requirements.
He is also a Public Notary and at your
service.

Mr, Snapshot Says: KOD AK DEVELOPIN' G

aceoe For College Students Is Our Specialty
Lighening-like rapidity of service makes distence no disadvantage. Our
prints represent tho highest in photographic ort. No extra charge for plossy finish.

GOODHART-TOMPKINS Co., - - Atlanta, Georgia

‘DAVIDSON COLLEGE

DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped
Laboratories

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY
REGISTERED PHARMACISTS

We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery and
Toilet Articles

WHITE DRUG COMPANY :

Union Theological Seminary

W. W. Moore, D.D., LL.D., President

A Victrola In Your Home

Gives access to the best music in all the world pro-
duced by the Greatest Artists

Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet
Music and Everything in Music

ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.

213 N. Tryon St. Phone 3626 Charlotte, N. C.

NONE TOO SMALL-- NONE TOO LARGE

WE WANT YOUR ACCOUNT REGARDLESS OF ITS SIZE
THE COMMERCIAL NATIONAL BANK

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

A. T. SUMMEY, Cashier

LW. STEWART, Assistent Cashier
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier

A. NN. ident
I. A: RNDERSON. Vice-President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-Presideat
CAPITAL. SURPLUS, ETC. OVER A $1.000.000.00

SSSHOSSSOSSSSOOSOSONSESODSOSSSCSSS OSH DOS OSE SOOSSEOOOOSOOOOSCOORODOSSSOOSEODESECCCEES

LIFE INSURANCE—
. A PROFESSION

The Southern Life and Trust Company's Training School
for Agents and multiple line of insurance provides the
equipment necessary to real Success in life insurance salesmanship.
Our Motto: “The largest service to the largest number”
Write to the
SOUTHERN LIFE and TRUST COMPANY

HOME OFFICE—GREENSBORO. N. C. CAPITAL—ONE MILLION DOLLARS
PesssonsococoooocosoososoncscoooosooosonSsooocoosnesoeoeRCoceesooeesseoeoee;seeees:

