- eh THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 2, 1921. if

)

; :
| . . ¢ | ' $
; netted his team many points, often { )
' a ¢ s
at the moment of greatest need. | White’s Meat Market Johnson S Barber Shop
I HE PEANU I PA RCI IER F. K. Toney, Left Guard. The Home of Comfort-
aay Frank was a bulwark in the Jun- BEST FRESH MEATS able Hair Cuts and
" ior defense, holding his man score- DELIVERED Shaves
Our eae New é less in One Sau a CINE Nie Phone DAVIDSON, N. C. to
Fire, the word that has two mean-| Every one please stand while Wal- ing a steady and consistent game. We want your business and \ou need
ings on the campus at Davidson, thall sings, “I didn’t like her apart- His teamwork was marked and his our service
ais ment so | knocked her flat.” A UES spirit always prevail- RALPH W. JOHNSON, Proprietor
There was enough hose on the} And W. E. Covington, Right Guard. — CHARLOTTE
campus Monday to put out the fire.| ‘Frank Montgomery pulls out a As floor guard “High” served his SHOES FURNISRINGS
a dollar bill; Jew Elliott faints, then squad well. Not only did he put up TRANSFER COMPANY We are ready in this
Historic comes to and raises the price of'a good game on the defense but his | itne
Another way the fire ought to “Hot Dogs.” accuracy in finding the basket great- '
have been prevented—If the Springs | eed ly augmented the score of his team-| Army Shoes Dress Shoes
had run—Bed springs. |? A mates on more than one occasion. Phone 298 : and Tennis Shoes
: | Young*Lady—Why do they call ese ne ee We alse ene a god line of
Landmark them “Scrubs ?” FURNISHINGS
Some one remarked that possibly! Buddy—They have to rub so hard aa LUECEOOD JAKE MAXTIN, . Manager Knox & Barnette
the fire was caused by a defective} ta get clean. OO
Aad a eg e THANKSGIVING DINNERS :
Chambers had an awful case. More Passes | yj FTTH ee
MeAlpine informed the editor of Mauy a “Turk” lost the “key” to, After Every Meat’’ ssa nti
The the Parcher that fire was the cause jts gobble just as it was about to | a
The absent-minded boy who rooms, of it all: give thanks for one bright ‘sunny New ( entral a
in Chambers was mighty lucky—for'..--- Sa morning the Christian’s sword in the} : 3
after dragging his trunk out. of epee Grand - form of an axe brought destruction | = Hotel :
Chambers he ran back and jumped Chambers was not the Phihall but (these Ottomites. When the! :
out ofthe window. the fire hall—Pronounce your words peace conference was called, not to EB
= distinetly. ‘the s ise of any. he was give ' i
= culy nee the Surprise of any. Ie Was given the - In the center of the the-
Symbol place of honor, he was placed in the : dsh 5
Everyone on the campus ts very And ; center of the assembly room) sur ¥ : atre and shopping
serry for Thomas Lowry, for he lost What has become of the old: rounded by the fruits and grains of i district
his winter supply of fine whiskies fashioned boy who wore such long. (he other conquered nations such as :
and French wines. Tie HU that Hen ye oe He Grease and the Duchy of Cranberry. : Thoroughly modern and
aa (ERE ONE Steps tO LNB we door belli) Ae vinous dine during Tuesday, up-to-date
Of os ie een tp a P
! ; i 5 Wednesday, and Thursday — thes«
John Schenck. says his socks head) Sta) peace conferences were called at the
oe ¢ . bs ‘Tap $ , ‘:
him out of his room and knock Bob MeLeod jumped out of bed hoarding houses, each student get W here Courtesy and
down a post on their way down wd slipped ona banana pecling to Ung his piece, The conferences were Service is the motto
stairs, , go to the fire, a great success as shown by the en- 2
ne " sei thusiasm-during them by the dele-, :
Old Davidson. a SUE eet te eR Make your headquarters

gates representing Davidson, and ith h °
When they adjourned yells were with us when in

given for the landladies who had} FOR Charlotte

|

|

|

| F:
nade this possible, the students in FIVE CENTS | . S

a

|

Some. of the boys who ventured). Siig Bailey went toa barber shop
back in the building after she was, Charlotte recently and fell asleep,
very nearly gone were able’ to esa When he waked his bill was over

; ae four dollars, He would nod his head

i tod often, | ‘ i YaKtt Serer eis Pant ;
aes Haasan show their appreciation, for it) was Th FI La
Davidson. ‘| - uae certainly a treat and enjoyed by all, e riavor sts!
Pat MeGeachy asked the “Peantit SPECIAL aire SoRRTED MAN
Parcher” to announce that he siived | 4 y SUEPOR RS R
a suit case and a pair ‘of pajamas, Wit vd SR
but has been unable to locate his

cape on the wheatstone ‘bridge, this feeble manner endeavoring to B130 Frank Gretson, Mgr

SHUI. HALL MUTA RIUTMTT OTA TTA TTT

(Continued from page 3)

toothbrush. 2 away in search of something to fill
gL “the aching void.”
Has. , How the time was spent by the

Sam Story rushed into the physicg| DOvEs except for watching the game,
laboratory and was able to save the] would be almost impossible to say.
major eer | Suifiee it to remark that the hours
ee soon flew past and the hour of nine
had arrived,
Burned The return trip) was rather un-
eventful, most of the fellows choos-
CUT ington getin a little sleep. And
{soot gulls were back at the starting
point. Our team had been beaten,
j butsthose who saw it fight had only
a bigher regard for it, rather than
tceling downhearted over the loss of
ithe game,
[age

Everything for QUALITY
—nothing for show

HAT’S OUR IDEA in making
CAMELS—the Quality Cigarette.

Why, just buy Camels and look at the’ package!
It’s the best packing science has devised to keep

.

B. L. Team escaped from Cham-
bers by swimming out in the
waves.

But
Gamble escaped by means of the
alternating current. Thus he dodg: |
ed all obstacles in his way.

From (age NT cigarettes fresh and full flavored for your taste.
Knox—Why did Tally run out WHO’S WHO ON JUNIORS’ H tsid ecure foil wrapping inside
with only one shoe?” | FIGHTING BASKET MEN SEY Daren OUlbieces APP
Bascom—"He got the right one.”| | ——— and the revenue stamp over the end to seal the pack-
=== | | G. W. Mauze, Captain, Center. ge and keep it air-tight.
Its _ It was largely due to this member Gyoand P g
Our weekly verse we are due to af the Junior Quintette that the And note this! There’s nothing flashy about the
Write, ,class championship now rests in the

Won't come to the surface this time, hands of his classmates. George is
So_sit down and write one for usjone of the. best defensive centers

tonight— Ithat has been seen in Davidson class
Just anything you can make thyme. basketball in years, and he justly

Camel package. No extra wrappings that do not
improve the smoke. Nota cent of needless expense
that must come out of the quality of the tobacco.

,earned the rank of all-class center. ; ' :
Ashes ike eee ar aaa Camels wonderful and exclusive Quality wins on
__ How old would Crown Prince be) R. C Brake, Right Forward. < merit alone.
if he were 5 feet 6 inches tall and) In more than one game Pete was
weighed 200 Ibs ? ithe center of attraction, making Because, men smoke Camels who want the
: ‘nigh impossible shots from all parts
; Will of the floor. He is a valuable asset taste and fragrance of the finest tobaccos, expertly
Why does “Pete” Brake ? lt his team and too much credit can blended. Men smoke Camels for Camels smooth,
; not be awarded him for his service refreshing mildness and their freedom from ciga-
ay Rise during the class series. : So) 8
Silence, please, while Slink Black E. E. Houghton, Left Forward. retty aftertaste.
chews the weeds. Although this is the first year that A
Edgar has entered into the spirit of Camels are made for men who think for them-
A class basketball, he played a specta-
Can you call a mail carrier’s uni-| cular game. “His bank shots, even selves.
form a suit of mail? ‘junder the handicap of close guarding

FELLOWS :
1922 Calenders are Here. |

We will Canvass yous Room this Week and Next. |
The Right Christmas Present for the Home Folks.

M°KEITHEN & SORRELLS R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, Winston-Salem, N. C,

a Cd
