é
es,
bad
ae

4

The DAVIDSON

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY GLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before
12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

RDS........----- Editor-in-Chief ,., PRICE...---.-----«------<-. Forum Editor
X. ne GAMBLE, JR...-.:---Managing Editor Y --Campus Editor
H. H. SMITH-..-- .. Managing Editor .-Y. M. C. A. Editor
Rk. F. DAVIDSON Assignment Editor = J. SPRUNT-....---- ----Social ' Editor
A & OBMONE anise Bait aay Est
1 02; MER: -Alumni_ Editor
BOS cae J. H. McKEITHEN
REPORTERS’ CLUB
b EWELL, ED. MAUZE, E. H.
BRADEORD, W. %. GRACY, J..S. MAUZE, G, W., V.-Pres.
ROWN, C. V. HESTON, W. M MORRIS, H. M. Sec.-Treas.
BROWN, W. P. AES Mk ie SE arp
Cox We a JONES: KR WALTHALL, D. B.
ELKINS, L. D. <NOX, W. I. ILDMAN, A. C.
ELLIOTT, W. T. LACY, T. A. WILDMAN, C. F.
'

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

J. C. WOOL......---------- Business Manager : |
L. A. TAYLOR, E. T. WOOLFOLK and W. S. SHEPARD Asst. Business Managers |

,
CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:

.-R. DOUBLES..------- Circulation Manager Assi: in Department: |
i K RUSSELL and C, D. TULLER S.C. FAIN | P. C. HENDERSON |
Asst. Circulation Managers WATT McCAIN R. L, PRICE

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

“We cannot lead others to a higher plane than we ourselves have at-
tained.”

Soe |) ee
Don’t fool yourself into mistaking activity for efficiency. Most of
“the time it isn’t.
i Das
“Some fellows are so busy tooting their own horns they wouldn't
stop to listen to Sausa’s Band.”
D
As long as the Wildcats maintain 4the fighting spirit which they
showed last Saturday, they will never lack supporters.
Fd Ds
Judging by the numberof students taking part, singing in chapel
seems to be a welcome innovation.
D

J

If the interest in class basketball continues to grow on the campus,

it will soon be a rival of football in the volume of cheering to be heard
at games.

D:
THE DRIFTER.

MONG the many types of mien to be found on the modern college
A campus, perhaps none is more to be pitied than that of the drift-

eri-the man who seems to have no object in life save to while
away the few inevitable hours between eating and sleeping. He has no
desire to study, neither does he engage in college activities. Athletics
require too much time and effort, and he can see no reason for work-
ing himself. to death on a college publication, or joining a literary soci-
ety-- Occasionally he makes a firm resolution ‘to begin real work, but it
requires but little to change his purpose. For'the remainder of his time
he wanders aimlessly about seeking something to amuse, and turned

from one side to another at the slightest opn“ sition.

Davidson is no exception to the rule in this respect, for every year
there appears in our midst a certain number of men who fall clearly in-
to this class, and a somewhat larger number who are on the border line
between it and the majority of industrious students. Such men do little
harm to any but themselves. They have not even the energy to be
thoroughly bad. Their influence in the student body .is practically
nothing, and yet the presence of such men in college cannot but have a
demoralizing effect on their fellows. Give a little thought to this mat-
ter and see whether you are in danger.of being classified as a drifter,
and if so get busy. It is a true saying that the man who aims at nothing
in particular, generally hits his mark.

D:
WHO WILL DO IT?

Every year about this time there are a goodly number of students
to be seen exercising on the open air gymnasium. Many of these men
have had valuable training and experience ihigh schools, and are capa-
ble of becoming first class gymnasts. However, on account of the lack
of any incentive at Davidson they gradually give up their practice and
lose this chance for physical development.

Several years ago Davidson had a regular gym team. This team
was-selected by competition from the best gymnasts in school,.and made
annual trips to nearby towns and colleges. 1
‘this custom has been discontinued in recent years.

_ Why should not the Davidson of. today with her five hundred stu-
dents be able to turn out as successful a team of this kind as she was
iwhen her student body numbered, only three hundred? We believe that

e i¢ abundant material here for sucha team, and should like to:see
senterprising student or students take charge ofa movement to

jand joke-books, besides laughing and
Circulati

prayer.”

of respect to the fellows around them,
the few fellows that persist in these
practices in the Davidson church ought
to cut it out.

MINSTREL SHOW PROMISES

tion of Professor Erwin, is going to re-
peat its success of last year—and then
some!

ger, better, and brighter than ever be-
fore, is this minstrel show.
gram is
touches are now being put to the show.
There is the usual opening, followed by
jazz-time specialties, then the play, and
for the ending a Grande Finale.

position, while Gibson, Bogart, Woolfolk,

Old jokes, new jokes, local jokes, foreign
jekes, jokes good and jokes bad—all are
on deck for the use of these wits.

again in the quartet, while Raker falls
heir to Vance’s place.
hits and novelty stuff aplenty are here
and sung by the best in college.

and adding some new wrinkles gotten
this summer.
ry
“can’t-stay-quict”
usual clogging they are putting on sev-
eral original bits of fun. ;

the night’s entertainment.
of Director Erwin, it is “something never

For some unknown reason|'

absolute slave you are to suggestion in

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 20, 1921.

f A N What would you have-done? I did as

you, walked up the street looking at the
shoes which were. being worn by the

Open Forum

from them.

Did you know that Brogue oxfords
with English woolen socks were all the
go now? I didn’t before. I went to Ed
Melons and asked about them. I was
told that most of the correctly dressed
men were wearing either Brogue oxfords
with English woolen socks or Brogue
shoes with silk socks. And believe me

Sit Lux.

Several years ago when the enrollment
of Davidson’ College wasn’t as large as
now but yet large enough to crowd the
dormitories, we were asked as a favor
to “double up.” Some rooms had three
and a few four. At that time, no rules
were made limiting the number of watts
to the room or number of square inches |
to the window. Now that Davidson has |
to turn down applicants, and now that we
are still crowded to the hilt, the amount
of light in®each room jis gradually be-
ing diminished. Two fellows can man-
age to live and study by two lights fair-
ly well—but when it comes to only two
lights to three people, it’s a different mat-
ter. There is little enough studying done
by the average man these days and he
should be .given every advantage that
will help him along in that line. At
least, he should have a plenty of light
on his subject if he is to make prog-
ress in it. eNL;

line of those go to Ed Mellons.

two to six inches across the toe.
narrow, some broad, some long, some
short, some black, some tan, some good,
some bad, some high, some low. You
can see them all at Ed Mellons.

D.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

MAGAZINE NOW IN
' HANDS OF PRINTERS

Magazine, containing at least three
Reverence. short stories: and a number of serious | },
Webster's definition of .reverence is| essays, went to press last Tuesday. The

management wishes especially to call
attention to the fact that the exchanges
are all humorous and that some of the
jokes are really quite witty.

Among those who have contributed
stories are such men as June-bug Price,
Liston Elkins, Okey Allison, and Bill Joe
Martin, while the subjects treated range
from the quaint, subtle, oriental atmos-
phere of “Sin Lo,” and the mysterious
“Valley of the Shadow,” to the bright
“Hollyhocks and Columbine” and_ the
martial scenes of “Jean’s Lieutenant.”
The management also announces a
shocking “Lightning” by the Chief Engi-
neer of the General Electric Co. A let-
ter of congratulation has also been re-
ceived from Woodrow Wilson, and will
be duly published and spread abroad.

There will, of course, be the usual
essays by local students, one or two of
them being learned criticisms of mod-
ern writers. Several poems have like-
wise been’ perpetrated, but the names of
the young heroes, their authors, have
been withheld for fear of mob violence.
It is even possible that there may be
more surprises in store, but the manage-
ment, always wisely conservativég, has
refrained from releasing further details
to an eagerly expectant public.

D

WELL KNOWN METHODIST MIS-
SIONARY DIES.

respect and honor. Some seem to think
reverence in the church means the read-
ing of daily papers, magazines, novels,

talking during the sermon.
Christ said, “My house is a house of

Out of respect for His house, and out

Duo.
D.

NUMBER OF REAL THRILLS

The Wildcat Minstrel,.under the direc-

All organized, and promising to be big-

The .pro-

decided upon and the final

LaFar is holding forth in the center

R. K. Shaw have charge of the ends.

McGeachy, McLeod, and Jones, are}

Bishop Walter R. Lambuth, M. E.
z Church, Passes Away in Far
Snappy new song East. ,

Nashville, Tenn., Oct. 13—On Septem-
ber 27, 1921, a cablegram was received at
headquarters of the Methodist Episcopal
Church, South, announcing the death of
3ishop Walter R. Lambuth, in Yoko-
hama, Japan, following an operation at
the United States naval hospital.

In the passing of Bishop Lambuth,
Southern Methodism not only mourns
a worthy and honored son, but the news
of his death will bring sorrow to thou-

Yes—Gibson is still a-pickin’ his banjo

Clyburne, Miller, and Cur-
entertainment with their
feet. Besides the

furnish

The play is the most unique part of
In the words

seen, attempted, or heard of on the F
en if sands in nearly every quarter of the
Dividson stage. Nothing more than fea ;
5 ; globe, for he was a world citizen. Bishop
that is promised! ‘ ;
_ Lambuth was an outstanding man in

D.
THE POWER OF SUGGECTION.

his generation and everywhere was ac-
corded high honor, not only as a prom-
inent churchman, but as a skilled sur-
geon, noted author, lecturer and ex-
plorer, He gave practically his whole
life to the service of mankind, being the
messenger of his Church in Africa,
China, Cuba, Brazil, Japan, Korea, Si-
beria, Belgium, Poland, as well as in
fields nearer home. He was born in
Shanghai, China, in 1854, being the son
of James W. and Mary McClellan Lam-
buth, pioneer missionaries of the Meth-
odist Episcopal Church, South. Bishop
Lambuth received a broad and liberal
education and held degrees from promi-
nent colleges and universities in Amer-
ica and Europe. He received his medi-
cal. and M:A. degrees from Vanderbilt
University in 1877 and later graduated
'from Bellviue Hospital Medica] College,
New York City. He did special work
in surgery in Edinburgh and London.
He was also a fellow in the Royal Geo-
graphic Society.

Have you ever thought what a power-
ful part suggestions play in the every
day affairs of man? What percentage
of “your thoughts, your actions, and your
habits can you trace back to suggestion?

Did you know ‘that, largely through
the suggestions in these columns, about
25 Davidson men went to Ed Mellons
for their fall hats last Saturday? That
about 12 went there for overcoats and
still a greater number for shirts and
various other articles? Did you know
that the show -houses, cafeterias, and
restaurants who patronize the David-
sonian were, in their own words, flooded
with Davidson men Saturday? Most of
this can be traced, as you know, to the
suggestion made in chapel Friday morn-
ing.

Admitting then that our thoughts and
actions are influenced by suggestions,
have you thought, further, what a slave,
T).

1

matters of dress? We are chained to
suggestions there as Sampson to the
Philistian wheel. To illustrate this: I
wanted to buy a pair of shoes while in
Charlotte Saturday. What did I do first?’

Many former Davidson students were
at the game; among them: Joe McCas-
kill,.John Gaston, Leonard Dick, |Gene
Lewis, John Wright, Bill Massey, and J.
C. McMaster.

well dressed men, and got a suggestion |

fellows if you wish to see a peach of a)
He has |
them, “and ties to match,” ranging in|
size from three to twelve, in width from |
‘ Some |

oP
GOLEM

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

o

The first issue of the Davidson College, 1.1,

|
|

The Code of a Good Sport.

Thou shalt not quit.

Thou shalt not alibi.

Thou shalt not gloat over winning.
Thou shalt not be a rotten loser.

Thou shalt not take unfair advan-
tage. : a

6. Thou shalt not ask odds thou are
unwilling to give. :

7. Thou shalt always be ready to give
thine opponent the shade.

8 Thou shalt not underestimate an
opponent, or overestimate thyself.

9. Remember that the game is the
thing, and that he who thinketh other-
wise is a mucker ‘and no true sports-
10. Honor the game thou playest, for
e who playeth the game straight and
hard wins even when he loses.—Hugh S.
Fullerton, Sporting Editor of the New
York “Evening Mail.”

The International Relations Club has
held no meetings so far this year, but .
expects to begin work this week. New
members will be elected at an early date.
Membership in the club is restricted to
those Juniors and Seniors making a high
grade in any course in Social Science.
The result of this election is awaited
with interest as the International Rela-
tions Club is one of the most interesting
and instructive organizations on the
campus. Already a course of study has
been arranged which will be carried out
by the members and by speakers from
other colleges.—N. C. College for Wom-
en.

Don’t Let a Good Custom Die.

It has always been the custom at
Hampden-Sidney to show respect to-
wards the faculty. We owe much to
them. They are our friends, but also
our moral and intellectual superiors.
When you speak to a professor, raise
your hat. This little act is only cour-
tesy; don’t neglect it.

This article is unnecessary as regards
the greatest number of men, but a sim-
ple reminder hurts no one. Don't allow
a good custom to die out. Uncover !—
The Tiger.

Sportsmanship.

Last Saturday when the plucky little
crew from Davidson were flinging every
ounce of their physical and mental
power into an effort to stop the onrushes
of the Tornado, the Davidson captain
saw fit to send one of his men to the
bench. I do not know the man’s name
but he’s a man—every inch of him. His
left leg gave perceptibly beneath his
sturdy frame. He held his chest as if it
were paining severely. His breath came
in gasps as he protested because he
could play no more. Down his face there
streamed tears—the tears from the very
soul of a man who had given his all and
yet longed and fought and cried in an
effort to give more.

Many Tech men recognized the caliber
of the fallen. foe and voiced their ap-
proval by a hearty clapping of their
hands.—Technique. ;

Some Printer.
“May’I print a kiss on your lips?” he
said, :
And she nodded her sweet permission.
So we went to press, and I rather guess
We printed a full edition.
“But one edition is hardly enough,”
She said with a charming pout,
So again in the press the form was
placed,
And we got some ‘extras’ out.
—The Cadet.

* D.

VISITORS ON THE HILL

Lee Campbell, ex-’23, who is now prac-
ticing law, visited the hill Friday.

“Amo” Love, '19, was here for a brief
stay Sunday afternoon.

“Bill” Massey, ex-’24, who is studying
law at Wake Forest this year, visited
Davidson Sunday, having come over
from Charlotte after the game. :
