4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 1, 1921.

The DAVIDSONIAN

e o
Member of North Carolina Intercollegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
L “The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.
——— ee

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

i icati b the hands of the Managing Editor before
All Articles for PAbtcles received from an unknown source will not be published.
SS NNNNNesrawswe  Editor-in-chief
J. M. Richards...---------- agrrcrnnsecenns crsaenemencannncccnnccease Editor-in-Chie

aleneee eeeeeee cece nen ececnes-e-nn----Managing Editor

Me a s witha Peeve vooccececenssenaceanesneeenes Assistant Managirig Editor
R D vid Mlecwcewcccenncccecnnccesercasuccecenaccennececenns Assignment Editor
AC Ormonde nopeneeeneneseeeerenerunnencecceeeneee Athletic Editor
x € Summers roo reerrrrerrer rn nnnen cone nnceecencemececceeeneee Alumni Editor
ih. ithe __..--------0c--eeeeeeeveneee-ananeeneneenennnee Exchange Editor
; De Forum Editor
{. R. Doubles..-------------------neceeennnenneneeenecnneeeeeenees Campus Editor
ob tity. Je deerreeeeerrer nnn nnenenensnnnnsnnnnennee Y. M.C. A. Editor
; prune een rene neenentnebececncneceecnnencaccennene Social Editor
100, Jlicccencccnnccccecccneennccsenennsenecennccnnneseneee Literary Editor

Wo Cone TTT Publicity Editor

CLUB

Mitchell, A. M.
Morris, H. M.
Phillips, J. W.
Tuller, C. D.

REPORTERS’
Lacy, T. A.
Long, C. G.
Mahood, D. L.
Mauze, G. W.

Bitzer, R.
Cunningham, C. E,
Jones, J. R.

King, A. D.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
Cc. J. MATTHEWS...-.--.-------------- --------------------- Business Manager

E. A. NASH } eeerceseneccesnannee ewe eeeneece edewecccseo= Assistant Managers
J. S. CURRY
CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
eccccccecencenennnnscscsnnnaccene Circulation Manager
t & GON roost Manager

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

“It is a crime to be a little man in such a day as this.”
D————_—__—_——

With basebail in full swing and the campus once more clothed in
green, it is indeed hard to resist that case of spring fever.
D—————_~.

* .
Davidson has a right to be proud of such a team as the one which
met Carolina in Winston-Salem on Easter Monday. Coach Hengeveld’s
men put up a hard, clean scrap throughout the entire contest, and the
number of Davidson supporters in the stands increased with the prog-
ress of the game.
_p——____
Our heartiest thanks and good wishes are due to the citizens of the
Twin City for the splendid way in which they supported the contest.
DpD———_—__

The new tennis courts go far toward meeting a long felt need at Da-|
vidson and we are glad to see the interest being manifested by our rac-
quet enthusiasts. .

—_D—____.
A TRIBUTE AND A PLEA.

OR twelve months the students and alumni of Davidson College
have been scerved by the Editorial Staff and Reporters’ Club of
the 1920-21 Davidsonian with but little recognition of their serv-

ices, and oftentimes in the face of scornful.criticism they have done their
best for the maintenance of a successful college paper, and through it
for the building of a bigger and better Davidson. .

That mistakes have been made no one can deny ; otherwise the staff
members would not be.human. Nevertheless they have done their
work faithfully and well and the high standards set. in previous years
have been maintained. In the face of tremendous financial difficulties
which were entirely beyond their power to control, they have published
a paper which compared favorably with the best college weeklies in the
South, and their efforts reflect nothing but credit on their Alma Mater.
In behalf of every true lover of Davidson we wish to thank these men
for their work. _ .

This issue of the paper marks ahe first effort of a new and untried
staff. It is with a feeling of misgiving and yet of hope that we assume
our new duties and send to.press our first issue. e have set our
aspirations high and it is our purpose to equal and if possible to surpass
the achievements of the past year. Whether our goal is to be reached
or not can be determined only by the readers of the paper. It is to you
then that we wish to make our plea—a plea for co-operation in every
sense of the word. .

First of all we would ask of the students that they. give us their
undivided support. When mistakes are made, do not take the attitude
of the knocker who finds fault without suggesting a remedy. Your sug-
gestions can help us more than you realize and the staff is always
ready and eager to consider any constructive criticism.

Of the alumni we would first of all ask more subscriptions. The
Davidsonian keeps many Davidson graduates in touch with their college,
but the work done is only a: fraction of what might be accomplished
with a lagger circulation. We request that you use us in furthering
plans for your class reunions or any similar movement, and shall be
glad to print news sent us at any time.

Finally, we would ask of the Faculty and Board of Trustees that
they permit us to raise our subscription fee and increase our allotment
from the blanket fee to a reasonable amount. A successful paper can-
not be maintained on advertising alone and if we are to give Davidson
the kind of paper which she needs we must have adequate financial as-
sets. We believe that you will realize the soundness of our position and
that this request, as well as the two which have preceded it, will be
cheerfully granted.

| Open Forum |

YOUR OPPORTUNITY

When Hercules was a young man, in a
vision he was offered two lives of fu-
ture conduct. He had to choose between
a life of ease and pleasure and one of
hardships. There was no middle path.

Every student council has had to make
the same choice. Will the
council choose to follow the line of least
resistance or will it follow some definite
constructive policy? It must make its
decision at the very first. The present
council and those before it have remov-
ed many big stones from the road to a
Better Davidson and much should now
be accomplished.

One thing the council should do is to
clearly define its position. The student
council should be absolutely free from
any faculty influence. It should handle
all matters that come under its jurisdic-
tion and shirk none. It should make
clear to the student body that it is not
a police force. The council is as human
as the students themselves The student
body has no right to elect a few men
and put all responsibility on them. The
best conditions will exist when each
student meets his responsibility. If John
does not do his part, all the more reason
why James should do his; and, if Jolin
does his part, then James should also
do his part. The incoming council should
remove all dead timber from the consti-
tution and by-laws‘and unfalteringly fol-
low what is there. It should meet regu-
larly to discuss constructive work and
this will prove that it is not merely a
punitive hody.

Unfortunately, there are many differ-
ent opinions of the exact meaning of
honor. The council should clearly state
what it considers honorable and what is
dishonorable. The work in the labora-

-tories should ke on as strict honor basis

as examinations. Think about it, reason
it out, analyze it, and you'll agree that
it is only right and proper that it should
be that way. :

One man may try to accomplish all
this, the council may; and yet, they'll
fail unless the students co-operate. The
aims of the council must be those of the
students. The council must serve the
students and the students must support
the men they elect to the council.

If the incoming council by the help of
the students can clearly define its posi-
tion to the students and gain their co-
operation; if it can build up a higher
standard of honor; if it can begin .on
a constructive program, it must never-
theless be very careful to undertake only
that which will be worth while and to
see that it is well done.

God grant that the incoming council
will be a blessing to old Davidson. - .

Vox Clamantis.,
D——...
PLAYS BY QUEENS DRAMATIC

CLUB HOLD ATTENTION

ON APRIL 4TH

Two One-Act Plays and Dance of
the Seasons to Constitute Pro-

gram

On the night of April 4th the Queens
College Dramatic Club will present two
one-act plays in Shearer Hall. This or-
ganization has proved unusually capable
in its efforts this season, having scored
several successful hits in Charlotte, and
it is with keen interest that the students
of Davidson College welcome the club to
the Hill.

The first play: “The Happy Day,” is a
drama of recent publication, the scene
being laid in a modern
about the time of early ‘spring. The
cast of characters is as follows: Mrs.
Marlowe—Frances Boyd; Anne Loring—
Adele Cross; Sybil Marlowe—Kathryn
Shuford; Kitty Fern—Edna Deaton;
Opal Neff—Carrie Darby Harrison; Mrs.
Tatlock—Margie Benoy; Polly Tatlock—
Annie Parks Moore; Dr. Quick—Mar-
garet Mackey.

The second play is entitled “Ciceley’s
Cavalier,” and the scene is laid in a lit-
tle English village, during the time of
the war between the Cavaliers and Pur-
itans. The cast of characters follows:
Mehetabel — Elizabeth Finley; Cicely
Widrington—Dorothy Powell 3 Nehemiah
Saxby—Claire Reid; Major Widdrington
—Margie Benoy; Captain Sarewe—Fran-
ces Pitts.

One of the features of the performance
will be a dance in which Misses Eliza-
beth Finley, Frances Pitts, Adele Cross,
and Margaret Mackey will represent

incoming:

And ‘twas midnight on the ocean,

The sun was shining brightly,

*Twas a winter day in summer,
While a barefoot boy with shoes on
It was evening and the rising

And the little fishes in the trees

While the rain was pouring upward

AMPICO
The moon was shining bright . RB Reasonable terms of payment can be arrenged
And everything that you could see _ Taning, Repairing and Beving
Was hidden out of sight.
While the organ peeled the onions JOHN W. POST & CO.

And while the sexton rang the belt

Holy smoke! cried the preacher

firemen present?”

hose.” .

see how long you can hold your breath.”

THIRTEEN BIG MISTAKES IN LIFE.

standards of right and wrong.
of others by your own.

in this world.

experience.

tions alike.

. % To look for perfection in our own
actions.

about what cannot be remedied.

however, and whenever we can.

A small boy about the size of a man,
He was barefooted, wearing his father's

sitting room |;

Any information tegarding

“THE HOUSE OF SERVICE”
Beuble Guarantee, Free pA) ae Selting Plan

logue, '
7 NaI Toms

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

“A SAD TALE.”

The time was in November,
Last July a year ago

Not a street car was in sight;
Tho it rained alt day that night.
The rain was snowing fast

Sat standing in the grass;

Sun was setting in the West,

‘THE WORLD'S BEST PIANO”

Aod other stendard makes and the
incomparable

Were hunddled in their nests

_ Gmabe Warereems
209-211 W. Teade St., Chaslotie, N.C,

& Stores slsoat Norfolk and Newport News, Va.

Lard was rendered by the Choir

Someone softly hollered fire!
In the rush he lost his hair,

Now his head, it looks like Heaven
For there is no parting there.

Say it with Flowers
Insurance Inspector—“How did the SC HOLTZ, the Florist

fire get such a good start with so many. Charlotte, N. C
» N.C.

Cadet—"The firemen came without] JETTON DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS
their socks so of course they had no

Stricken Freshman (to pretty co-ed) —

FOR ALL COLD TROUBLES

ICKS

VareoRus
Judge McCormick, of San Francisco, | Over 17 Million Jare Used Yearly

“You are the breath of my life, Caro-
line.”

Blushing Co-ed—“Oh, really? Then

D——___ ’

says there are 13 mistakes of life:

1. To attempt to set up your own

2 To-try to measure the enjoyment

THE RALEIGH

Charlotte’s

3. To expect uniformity of opinions

4. To fail to make allowancec for in-

Best Cafe

J. T. Matthews, - - Prop.
Phone 31%

221 W. Trade St.

§ To endeavor to mould all disposi-

6. Not to yield to unimportant trifles.

8 To worry ourselves and others

9. Not to help everybody, wherever,

Established 1679

10. To consider anything impossible L
that we cannot ourselves perform. A. U. Fetting Manafactering

11. To believe only what our finite
minds can grasp. . Jewelry Ce.

12. Not to make allowances for the
weaknesses of others. . . Menafacterers

13. To estimate by some outside qual-
ity when it is that within which makes Greek Letter Frateralty Jewelry \
the man

. 313 N. Liberty Street
D—_____
$800 REWARD. BALTIMORE, MB.

Lost, strayed, or stolen,

shoes,

He was last seen walking up thé side of
a brick building.

He carried a small satchel containing a
railroad

Engine, and a tunnel.

The Selwyn Hotel

FIRE PROOF

Located in the heart
of Charlotte, conven-
ient so \railroad_ sta-
tions, street cars, busi-
ness and shopping cen-
ters.

Table d’hote lunches,

12:00 to 2 P. M.; EURO.
PEAN.

Rooms $1.50 and up;
with bath $2.00 and up.

Our system of artesian
water flowing through the
building. °

H. C. Larzelere, Prop.

Suchza lad, will be appreciated

By Doolittle and Sitmore Co.

Corner of Tincan Alley and Bottle St.
D—____.

ONE ON “PAP.”

Mr. Askew (in history class)—Brannon,
where was the Declaration of Independ-
ence signed?

Brannon—At the bottom of the paper.
SaaS
Winter, Spring, Summer, and Autumn,
respectively.

The Dramatic Club is under the able
direction of Miss Carlotta Mitchell. The
officers are as follows: Frances Pitts,
president; Elizabeth Finley, vice-presi-
dent; Norah Peacock, secretary; Adele
Cross, treasurer.

