The DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
“Member of Southern Collegiate Press ‘Abeociation.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Pablished Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

&

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
1o Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before
3 p. m. Monday. Articles received froman unknown source will not be published.

MiDSicscnccssesse. Editor-in-Chief
agate py Rizccdssas Managing Editor

M. Ter el Massicsckess casksecene Forum Editor
/ Managing Edit He BAILEY jR Y in CA. Editor
5 itor 100; (yap Tepe ers -M.C.A. i
RF DAVIDSON 2 Assigninent Editor  'SPRUNT 1. -Social’ Editor
Ae SMa Rs ooo Nes Eater Wr: Son Ra ter
umni * .
A Soe J. H. McKEITHEN.......... Exchange Editor
REPORTERS’ CLUB
| L FEWELL, ED. MAUZE, E. H.
BRADFORD, Ww %, GRACY, J. S. MAUZE, G, W., V.-Pres.
BROWN, C.'V. HESTON, W. M. MORRIS, H, M. Sec.-Treas.
BROWN, W. P. IVES, J.C. SMITH, R. H.
CALHOUN, M. P. ONES; J. R. TULLER, C. D.
COX, W. M. ONES, R. R. WALTHALL, D. B.
ELKINS, L. D <NOX, W. I. WILDMAN, A. C.
LIOTT, W. T. LACY, T. A, WILDMAN, C. F.

: BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

| Pid a ae o ye Business Manager

. C, WOO
L. A,. TAYLOR, E. T. wooLFOLe and W. S. SHEPARD sst. Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:

M. R. DOUBLES.....-.- Circulation Manager Assi in Cir i peer :
: LL and C, D. TULLER S. C. FAIN P, C, HENDERSON
Fe eee e eee Ae cOuealatiom lacanner’ WATT McCAIN R. L, PRICE

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

Hats off to the “Praying Colonels” of Centre.
D

The comeback of the Wildcats in last Saturday’s game with Rich-
mond University proved the truth of the old saying that it is better late
than never. ; ‘

D

The Davidsonian wishes to thank N. C. C. W. for the worerful hos-
pitality tendered our delegates to the meeting of the North Carolina
Collegiate Press Association held at that college.

D

LU

Have you ever noticed that the men who have system in their
work almost invariably appear to have the least to do?

D
The showers which fell during the early part of the week were in-

deed a welcome change after the drought which has prevailed since the
opening of college.

Only three more weeks before Thanksgiving.
D.
HONOR WHERE HONOR IS DUE.

In the list of editorial departments and editors of the Davidsonian
appears the name of one man who is listed as the publicity editor. Not
many of those who read the paper ever stop to glance at these names, and_|
of those who do, probably a very small number have an idea of the work
done in this department. To them it is merely a name without any very
definite meaning. ‘

This phase of the Davidsonian work was first instituted less than
a year ago, with the purpose of placing Davidson before the eye of the
public. Not only were news items to be sent to the home papers of ev:
ery boy in college, giving a record\of his activities here, but athletic
neWs was to be furnished the big papers and weekly items of campus

news were to be forwarded to other colleges for use in their respective
publications.

Needless to say the carrying out of these plans calls for an enormous?

amount of work by the publicity editor and his assistants, That. this
work has been done well is attested by the fact that at the recent meet-
ing of the North Carolina .Collegiate Press Association a delegate from
another institution remarked that he had read of Davidson in papers
from practically every state in the South this fall, and congratulated our
paper for taking advantage of this Opportunity to secure free advertis-
ing.

It is because we believe that the student body does not realize the
work that is being done here, and the tremendous amount of time and
energy that is being expended for mere love of the college that we call
attention to this matter. The publicity editor is doing a work which is
of inestimable value to his college without even the satisfaction. of any
public recognition of his services. Let us give honor where honor is due.
1D. ‘

A LESSON FOR KNOCKERS,

Have you read the Open Forum articles in this paper for the past
two weeks? If not look up your old papers and read them. In the first
paper some thoughtless student makes the accusation that the college is
not caring for the comfort of its students, his main grievance seeming to
be that he is now allowed only two lights to a room instead of three. In
last week’s issue this claim is clearly refuted in the giving of the reason
for this lower number of lights with’a list of steps which the college
has taken to better the conditions of its students’ in recent years,

The article speaks for itself and there is no need for us to write
further on that particular subject. The incident is typical of the actions
of some few knockers on the campus, however, and it is for that reason
we mention it. These men seem never content unless they can find
something about the college to criticise, and they do so without stop-

-ping-to investigate the real facts of the case. If they would pause long
enough to look into these matters more closely before speaking there
would be less knocking and a better spirit on the campus, .

‘

|

Representatives from more than sixty

University on October 26th to discuss
the disarmament question. The object
of the conference was to create or rath-
er stimulate discussion among the un-
dergraduates of the various colleges and
to deepen the interest in the whole ques-
tion of disarmament.

D.

Possibility of including Harvard on the
Tulane debating schedule was announc-
ed by the varsity debating team.—Tulane
Hullabaloo.

D.
Thirty-seven per cent of the co-eds
at Oglethorpe this year are red headed.
There are different shades of red from
the “bull-fight” to the reddish brown.—
The Petrel. ; .

D .
For the first time in fifty years the
University of California has won the
Crown of Athletic supremacy in track
and field sports. This is the first time
a western school has attained tliis honor.
Heretofore the big eastern institutions
always reigned supreme.—The Crito-
graph.

D
STUDENTS HEAR APPEAL FOR
PURE THOUGHT AND ACTION

On last Thursday evening Dr. Seerly
presented a message of purity of word,
thought and deed to the Davidson stu-
dents. Dr. Seerly was an officer in the
A. E, F, and is now an expert psychol-
ogist and physiologist. He presented
some striking facts in regard to the ef-
fect of mind over body. The mind, as
Dr. Seerly pointed out, is closely con-
nected to every part of the body through
the nerve centers. These nerve centers
being exceedingly sensitive are affected
directly by the condition of the mind.

In Bottles

Delicious and Refreshing

Charlotte Coca-Cola
Bottling Works

Hotel

In the:center of the the-
atre and shopping
district
Thoroughly modern and =

up-to-date
Where Courtesy and
Service is the motto
Make your headquarters =
with us when in
Charlotte

Frank Gregson, Mgr.
M tL cL aN

Naa

jurged. Although the modern woman is
i ; |
colleges in the East met at Princeton!

lons, Belk Bros., The Tate-Brown Co.,
mont, The Imperial, The Broadway. ‘

Music Store.

mann’s Book Co., Presbyterian Stand-
ard Publishing Co., VanNess Art Shop.

The Mecklenburg,

When these centers become excited by |.
the unwholesome thoughts of the brain
they naturally draw from the supply of

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 3, 1921.

energy stored in the body and thus
weaken it as a whole.

Another phase of the lecture was the
marriage relationship as it exists today
and the history of that relationship. The
chief obstacle to the perfect marriage,
he pointed.out, is the double standard.
He showed the utter folly of this stand-
ard and urged his audience to set it
aside. Chivalry as a whole was.also dis-
cussed and higher ideals ‘of chivalry

not of the clinging vine type, she needs
the respect and reverence of man more
than ever before in her history.

So from the standpoint of the physi-
cal, mental and moral welfare of both
man and woman, he urged “Purity of
word, thought and deed” as the code of
every Davidson man.

Dr.. Seerly addressed the Freshman
class in Physiology and Hygiene at their
regular meeting in the morning. He
came to Davidson under the auspices of
the Y. M. C. A.

D.

DIRECTORY OF OUR
CHARLOTTE SUPPORTERS

Fellows, below is a classified list of
cur advertisers in Charlotte. Cut this
out and take it to Charlotte with you,
patronize these friends -and tell them
you appreciate their support. You can
help the paper a lot this way, as well as
getting good service in whatever line
you have trading to do.

“Where to Dine”—Pollyanna Cafeteria,
The Raleigh Cafe, The S. & W. Cafe-
teria,

Athletic Goods — Carolina « Sporting
Goods Co., Myers Hardware Co.
Clothing and Furnishings—Ed. Mel-

Browns, Inc., A. Pittle.

Show Houses—B. F. Keith’s, The Pied-
- Music — Parker-Gardner, Andrews
Drinks and Candies—Tryon Drug Co.
Flowers—Scholtz, the Florist.
Stationery and Office Supplies—Brock-

Banks—Commercial National Bank.
Hotels—New Central, The Stonewall,

Shoe Shop—Shu Fixery.

With Other Colleges

North Carolina College for Women—
A club for the purpose of fostering in-
terest and pride in the teaching profes-
sion and to acquaint its members with
educational problems and conditions in
the state, has been formed at the North
Carolina College for Women. It is the
purpose of the officers of the club to in-
vite the foremost educational leaders of
the state to meet with them from time
to time.

D.

Elon—President W. A. Harper, upon
request, has sent a letter to the New
York World, endorsing the Disarmament
Conference to be held in Washington,
beginning November 12th.

When ia Charlotte visit

Warren’s Service Barber Shop

Chamber Commerce Bldg.

THEATRE

Playing This Week
BILL LEICHTS

Teddy Bear Girls Co.

Musical Comedy and

Class:
Vaudeville Features

NEXT WEEK A NEW
SHOW.

The Douglas Sisters
The Words & Music Co.

A NOVELTY SHOW

Boys when in Charlotte dont miss
visiting the Pidemont Theatre.

Newspaper—The Charlotte Observer.

Observer

B. R. Cates, Manager

Nal a eae TTT Ty yy yyy Perry pny yereyeyepetey

The Observer Printing House

Incorporate

Printing and Engraving

33 South Church
Street

When in Charlotte es .

ROADWAY

First National Pictures

are Shown

Building

Charlotte, N. C.

9

