THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 239, 1921.

CHRISTIAN

ACTIVITIES

. M. C. A. SECURES TWO MEN
FOR NEXT SUNDAY’S SERVICE

The “Y” has an unusually interesting
program booked for Sunday night with
two old Davidson men, George Bellin-
grath and E. H. Hamilton, as speakers.
Bellingrath graduated in ‘18, and was an
inter-collegiate debater for two years.
Hamilton finished in '17, and is the
writer of the words to “O, Davidson.” ,
These men are also bringing some fine
stereopticon views which will be shown
in connection with their talks. We are
very fortunate in getting these men to
stop over on their way to the seminary
in Richmond, and we feel that they will |
bring a message that none of us should |
miss. There will also be a special quar- |
tet and instrumental music.
D.

PUTATIONS TO BE SENT
pEOUT BY Y IN COMING YEAR

Teams, composed of from three to six
men representing the Y. M. C. A. and
Davidson College, go out each year uw
the neighboring prep and high schools
to speak to the boys. When boys are in
prep or high schools they often do not
realize that they are then laying the
foundations for a successful college
career. These teams endeavor to im-|
press upon the students their responsi-
bility in preparing for their college and
future life. ‘ :

Men are chosen for the teams who
truly represent all the various phases of |
college life; e.g, a football man, liter- |
ary society man, debater, etc. Speeches |
and talks are made by the individuals on |
the teams on the subject they represent. |
If the members of a team have good |
voices they often sing, and lead the)
audience in song. |

The “Y" last year sent deputations to}
Winston-Salem, Gastonia, Salisbury, |
Westminster, Charlotte, and several |
other places. These team accomplished |
a great deal, and the deputations last |
year may be recorded as a great success. |

No program has as yet been made ot
this year, but the deputation committee |
is busy, and is going to put out some
forceful teams. A plan is on foot to
make trips to Rock Hill and Fort Mill,
S. C,, and several nearby cities and prep
schools this fall. If you are a speaker,
singer or can help in any way in these
deputations let the “Y” know about it.

D.

SUNDAY SCHOOLS AND BIBLE
CLASSES WELL ATTENDED

The Rural Sunday Schools conducted
by the Y. M. C. A. were well attended
last Sunday afternoon. The superintend-
ents were on the job at 2:30 o'clock, at
their respective charges. There are six
schools with leaders and one without.
The attendance at the schools shows an
average increase over the first Sunday
in the year.

School—Supt. Pupils. T’chrs.

Shearer—Mcllwaine ------- 32 5
Brawley’s—McKeithen ---- 35 4
Oak Grove—Cooper ------- 14 3
Cornelius—Clarke ------ BaEI80; 7
Caldwell—Patterson ------- 40

Mill Chapel—Mr. Jackson-- 33 4

Another phase of the “Y” work, among
the students of Davidson, is the weekly
Bible classes. These are held on each
floor of the dormitories, 25 classes in all.

COLLEGE MEN HELP PROMOTE
WOODROW WILSON
FOUNDATION

A committee of college presidents and
professors is to be one of the major
groups to assist in the work of the
Woodrow Wilson Foundation, accord-
ing to an announcement just given out
from the headquarters of that organiza-
tion at 1s0 Nassau street, New York.
Hamilton Holt, editor of the Independ-
ent, and executive director of the foun-
dation, announced that Stephen P. Dug-
gan, director of the Institute of Inter-
national Education of Néw York is to
be chairman of what is to be called the
educational committee of the founda-
tion and that Professor Duggan has al-

|ready outlined his committee and is re-

ceiving acceptances for membership on
it. :
It is the hope of the Woodrow Wilson
Foundation to rally to its support the
largest possible body of college grad-
uates and under-graduates, says Mr.
Holt’s statement. The purpose of the
foundation is to honog and perpetuate
the ideals of Mr. Wilson, and, to use the
words defining its purpose, it is to be
“created by public subscription in recog-

jnition of the national and international
| services

of Woodrow Wilson,
President of the United States, who
furthered the cause of human freedom
and was instrumental in pointing out ef-

twice

| fective methods for the co-operation of
\the liberal forces of mankind through-
}out the world,

from the in-
‘of the foundation will be made
from time to time by a nationally con-
stituted committee to the individual or
group that has rendered, within a speci-
fied period, meritorious service to dem-
ocracy, public welfare, liberal thought
or peace, through justice.”

“The award or awards
come

It is proposed to give the foundation
an endowment of one million dollars or
more, to be subscribed as a free-will of-
fering from all parts of the country and
from all classes of its people, the sum
to be kept permanently intact and the
income to be used as an award or awards
somewhat like the Nobel Prizes, one of
which Mr. Wilson, himself, holds. The
money to be raised without the
usual campaign or drive methods, since
the committee feels that such a means.
of money raising in this instance will
be unnecessary so long as their purpose
is only to afford “Americans an oppor-
tunity to pay tribute in lasting form to
the democratic ideals of another Amer-
ican who served his country and the
world, and who achieved greatly and
suffered greatly.”

Franklin D. Roosevelt, President Wil-
son’s assistant Secretary of the Navy,
is chairman of the National Committee
of the Foundation, and Cleveland H.
Dodge is chairman of the executive com- |
mittee, which is composed of the fol-
lowing members: Mrs. Carrie Chapman
Catt, Frank I. Cobb, Stephen P. Duggan,
Mrs. J. Malcalm Forbes, Edwin F. Gay,
Mrs. J. Borden Harriman, Edward M.
House, Frederick Lynch, Henry Mor-
genthau, Adolph S, Ochs, Frank L. Polk,
Miss Virginia Potter, Miss Caroline
Ruutz-Rees, Mrs. Charles E. Simonson,
Mrs. Charles L. Tiffany, and Mrs. H.
Otto Wittpenn,

State chairmen are organizing in 36
states, it is announced, and nation-wide |
organization of all the states will be
completed early in September. Great
interest in the movement has been mani-|
fested by women, Mr. Holt says, and a
national woman’s committe is being or-)
ganized by Miss Virginia Potter.

D
DO YOU PRACTICE THIS?

1s

Keep clear of personalities in conver-,
sation. Talk of things, objects, thoughts. |
The smallest minds occupy themselves.
with persons. Do not needlessly report |
ill of others. As far as possible dwell
on the good sidés of human _beings.!
There are family boarding places where,
a constant process of depreciating, as-|
signing motives, and cutting up char-
acter goes forward. They are not pleas-
ant places. One who is healthy does
not wish to dine at dissecting table.
There is evil enough in man, God knows.
But it is not the mission of every young
man and woman to detail and report it
all. Keep the atmosphere as pure as
possible, and fraught with gentleness
and charity—Orange ‘and Blue.

Dormitory Floor Attendance
Georgia -- -- -- --Ist 17
Georgia -- -- -- --2nd 16
Georgia -- -- -- --3rd 12
Watts -..-- << --1st 7
Wattsese 24 c= --and 16
Watts -. -. -- --3rd 12
E. Rumple -»7- --1st 9
E, Rumple -- -- --2nd 8
E. Rumple -- -- --3rd 8
W. Rumple -- -- -Ist 15
W. Rumple -- -- -2nd 12
W. Rumple -- -- -3rd Vy}
N. Chambers -- --Ist 15
N. Chambers -- --2nd 15
N. Chambers -- --3rd 19
S. Chambers -- --Ist 15
S. Chambers -- --2nd 16
S. Chambers -- --3rd 17
N. Barracks -- -- 8
S. Barracks -- -- 10
Smiths -- -- -- -- 10
Louisiana -. -- -- 16
Town (Chapel) -- 2

Total -- -- -- -- 272

CAMPUSISMS.

Jack Austin, W. R. Booth, A. M. Mar-
tin, J. B. Hall, H. O. Moss, Jas. -Mc-
Cutcheon, and J, S. Johnston were sick

‘in the infirmary last week.

B. F. Hastie spent the week-end in
Charlotte.

Geo. M. Robson, who has been helping |

with the coaching on the football field,

left Thursday to take up his second year,

at the School of 'Medicine, Pennsylvania
University.

Warren H. Sibley, ’12, one of our ofd
football stars, visited the hill last Wed-
nesday to watch the team practice.

lin part: “The production of Ford cars
land trucks for August again broke all
| previous high records with the total
| reaching 117,696. This is the fourth con-
| secutive month in which our output has
/gone over the 100,000 mark, the total
|for the four months being 463,074, which
| has gone a long way in making possible
the present reductions.—United Presby-
terian.

Say it with Flowers

SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS
as

FOR ALL COLD TROUBLES

NCKS

Careless.

A lady reader sends us this morsel of
old-time humor:

VaPeoR

Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

-It happened in grandma’s day that a
| young lady at a party lost her gloves.
|The finder was a wealthy old bachelor
{named Page, and he returned it to her
| with the following note:

“ —~)
Hugh ‘Hamilton, ’20, visited the hill! If from your glove yqu take the let-
Friday, ter ‘g,’ that glove is love and that I have
be eiaerne | for thee.”
H. W. Ray and J. M. Brawley spent, To.this the young lady replied: ( 4 yi
the week-end in Mooresville, | “If from your name you take the let- et our
—_——_ ter ‘P,’ then Page is age and that won't
Hugh and Ralph Smith went to Char-) do for me.”—Presbyterian. 1
lottesville to see the football game last ot es
week-end, = — WANTED —
W. F. Beck spent the week-end at; We want a responsible man as our Cl ea ne d
Goalncimuc: |lecal agent in every. town or city over
paca §00 population, to distribute VIRGINIA |
C, G. Brown spent the week-end visit- COALS from our mines direct to the T he South’s largest
ing r@hatives in Charlotte. ewe gs ‘ ; 1
dk aq paeeteal This is a splendid opportunity for Exclusive Cleaners
Mr. W. S. Glenn, whose son is a mem- right man to establish a good legitimate | and Dyers
ber of the Freshman class, was a visitor business. ; | : :
in Davidson last Thursday. In first letter give bank references | See their agent:
ees and state financial responsibility: | b
a 5 Ts
Among the week-end visitors were Mr. Address Miners, Box 152 | W. Yonan 12 Chambe
and Mrs. A, A. Knee and family; Mr. and Roanoke, Va. |
Mrs. EK. P. Tangley, who accompanied |
Mr. and Mrs.-D, f& Mallory. ‘They all) ARE The Ben Vonde Co.
enjoyed an automobile trip from Char- | ave your suits, Chet) and good shirts | ‘ .
lotte, | ~ done up right by the 't The best Dyers in the
soos Sanitary Laundry and Dry Cleaning Co. | South
Mr. Tom Leper and “Prep” Hall, ’20, | Mooresville, N. C. |
of Belmont, spént Sunday afternoon vis- | M : |
Taeateende One theneti tll | SMITH & NEEL, Agents, 26 Chambers | d.—n-
eee J Seececeresssss TOTTI IIIT IIT

Other Sunday visitors were Mr. Geo,
Adams and Miss Elsie Palmer, of Char-
lotte.

|

Miss Lelia Cox, of Winston-Salem, and |
Misses Sidney and George Anna Cald-
well, of Charlotte, drove through the |
country for a short visit Sunday even-
ing.

|
Mr. J, A. MeMillan, a young business |
man of Charlotte, spent Saturday night |

and Sunday visiting friends in the col-
lege.

D
DECLINE IN PRICE OF FORD CARS.

The Ford car has become almost
national institution and doubtless re-
ceives more free advertising than any

a

| other Commodity: offered in the markets

of the world. Most of us, from the
standpoint of financial ability, belong
to the Ford crowd. The gleam of hope
in the eyes of the man ambitious to
own a car shall never die so long. as
Uncle Henry continues to romp around,
One may now buy a runabout for $325
or a touring car for $355. Many of us
are patiently waiting until we own a
woodshed which’ may be used for a
garage and until the Ford car with all
necessary appurtenances is selling for
$25 per. About that time loud and joy-
ful.noises shall be heard from the ed-
itorial offices of the United Presbyte-
rian and if you are sitting on a conven-

| ient rail fence in our immediate vicinity

you may see us go whizzing by. A state-
ment issued by the Ford concern says

NOTICE

Beginning Monday, October 3rd we will be Open for Business
at the following hours only

2P.M. TO 8 P.M.

Please do not embarrass us by asking us to sell goods at other hours

the DAVIDSON COLLEGE COMMISSARY

PIII rTrririrrr iri iri ir i1ititt

(fore
Pr

Trt arrrrrrrrrrrrrrirrrr rr |

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
Richmond, Virginia
W. W. MOORE, D. D., President

Union Theological Seminary announces the completion of Schauffler
Hall, model Sunday School building. It.is our aim to make this the
greatest center in America of expert training in everything that pertains
to Sunday Schools and to work among Young People.

CATALOGUE AND INFORMATION ON REQUEST

Terri tititititititi~i~irrirts

[praooooannsesoasssseaasessseaaeessea

PI rrr rrr rrr rrr rrr rrr iii iii iii iiiiitiiiiiiititiitiiiiriiriry |

J. B. Readling, Cornelius, N. C., Writes Insurance

He wants your business. He represents
only the best companies and has every
facility for meeting your requirements.

Heis also a Public Notary and at your

service.

