THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 1, 1921.

Talking About You, Sister!

We are told not to believe all we see
—but, if some things we see aren’t so,
then we have a more vivid imagination
than we thought.

th Peanut Parcher

BY M. R. DOUBLES

He Gets the Pup.

Can the crook of his elbow be sent to] Ross Dunlap claims to be the biggest
jail? stud on the Hill, He made Good on

If so, what did it do? Biology and he has never been on class

How does he sharpen his shoulder ]and hasn't cracked a book. If anybody

This Week's Prize Bone.
From the rostrum in chapel this
week comes the following an-

blades? can beat that let him pipe up!
nouncement. sag this { |Tll be hanged if I know, do you?
nanere wa an ot ail men going Can_he sit in the shade of the palm of Misconstrued.
afternoon 230, his hand? “Dap . : ; .
out for football next year in Dr. Or heat the drum of his ear? Dub Roddey, in relating he ex
Sentelle’s class room.” Do the calves of his legs eat the corns periences on a floating ranch this sum-
" mer, tells how he and three other ne-
on his toes? groes had to feed the animals each
They're Not All Dead Yet. . If so, why not grow corn on the cars? morning.
“Mac” Richards, after awakening sud- Get Thi.

denly from an afternoon snooze, in- . . ; ; ;
quires, very embarrassed: “Have I cut] To call it the week-end is a misno-| It seems altogether fitting that April

breakfast, why didn’t somebody wake|men, for that’s when we are going the (1st should witness the debut of the new

me?” strongest. jDavidsonian staff,
More Fresh Brilliance. A Lovely Scene. ; Hee-Haw!
This year’s Quips and Cranks is|We stood at the bars as the sun went pvtitehel to Fresh at do you
dedicated to “Dad;” but Fresh Ted down, think of my mustache

Fresh—“On the face of the thing, I'll

s, inquisitive-like, don’t you know,} j j . ’
Jones, ing you Beneath the hills on a summer day. say it was rotten.”

inquired, “Dad who?” Enter cabbage}Her eyes were big, and tender, and

heads. H brown. h Commenting further on this “tennis’
Can You Answer? peat as sweet as the new-mown mustache of Mitchel Colonel Rogers

Where can a man find a cap for hisjfFar from the west the faint sunshine says: ‘ font mind hearing a man ad-
knee? Glanced sparkling off her golden hair, mit he him t grow a mustache, but Thate

Or a key to the lock of his hair? Thosescalm deep eyes were turned to to see him try to prove it.

Can his eyes be called an academy, mine, —_———__ D—__—_

Because there are pupils there? And a look of contentment rested there.| The Concord Presbyterial is meeting

What gems are found in the crown of |I see her bathed in the sunlight flood [this week in Newton. Several of the
his head? I see her standing peacefully now. Davidson ladies will be in attendance at

Who travels the bridge of his nose? Peacefully standing and chewing her |its meetings, namely, Mrs.,W. R. Grey,

Can he use, when shingling the roof of cud, president; Mrs. C. M. Richards, Mrs. C.

As I rubbed her ears—that. Jersey Cow. |H. Hamilton, Mrs. A, Currie, and Miss
—Ex. |Mary Young.

his house,
The nail on the end of his toes?

Who Was Moseley?

~ E was a young Oxford man, only twenty-seven when

he was killed at Gallipoli. Up to his time, man had

never seen the inside of an atom. He turned the
X-rays on matter—not figuratively but literally—and made
them disclose the skeleton of an atom just as certainly as a
su:geon makes them reveal the positions of the bones of the
body. Moseley proved that all atoms are built up of the
same kind of matter. He saw, too, just why an atom of
copper is different from an atom of gold.

Atoms are built up of electrons. Each atom consists of
a nucleus, a kind of sun, with a certain number of electrons
grouped about it, like planets. Moseley actually counted
the number of electrons of all the metals from aluminum
to gold,

When you discover what gold is made of or a new fact
about electricity, you open up new possibilities for the use
of gold or electricity. For that reason the Research Labora-
tories of the General Electric Company are as much con-
cerned with the “how’’ of thinge—atoms and electrons, for
instance—as they are with mere applications of the electric
current.

Hence Moseley’s work has been continued in the Re-
search Laboratories, with the result that more has been
learned about matter. How does water freeze? What is
lead? Why are lead, iron, gold and tungsten malleable?
Such questions can be answered more definitely now than
ten years ago. And because they can be answered it is
possible to make more rapid progress in illumination, in
X-ray photography, in wireless telegraphy, and in elec-
trical engineering as a whole.

There would have been no coal-tar industry without the
vast amount of research conducted in organic chemistry,
and no electro-chemical industry without such work as Sir
Humphrey Davey’s purely scientific study of an electric
current’s effect on caustic potash and caustic soda. Sooner
or later research in pure science always enriches the world
with discoveries that can be practically applied. For these °
reasons the Research Laboratories of the General Electric
Company devote so much time to the study of purely
scientific problems.

General@Electric

General Office Com any Schenectady, N.Y.

|

mehr,

For Nearly a Century ~
Columbia Theological Seminary has been training men
for the Gospel Ministry. ‘It is under the control of the
Synods of South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama and Flor-
ida, with a membership of 89,000 communicants. Its
Faculty was never more complete and efficient than at
present.

Many improvements to the plant are contemplated for
the near future.
For information address, The Executive Office,
Thornton Whaling, President Hagh R. Murchison, Executive Secretary
Columbia, S. C.

Be te ee EEE EP ELE TPP PD LP LE OEP PR EEL PE EP drt

PARKER-GARDNER CO.

Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas
and Victor Records
We send records on approval. Write for special service plan

CAMP SAPPHIRE BSEVARD.N.¢.
* A SUMMER CAMP FOR BOYS

All kinds of athletic sports, swimming, boating.
mountain hikes. Study classes. An excellent
table. An experienced Councillor for every
six boys.

Give your boy a Chance. Make his summer profitable
W. McK. FETZER, - - Director
Chapel Hill, N. C.

s J. M. McCONNELL, Associate Director
Davidson, N. C.

WRITE TODAY FOR CATALOG

aeheteieteheieieieieiet tee ft eetee ype bt rp br bee rete e 2020200008
7

7

A COMPLETE OF SPRING
CLOTHES

Society Brand Clothes; Dobbs and Dunlap Hats:
French Shriner and Urner Shoes; Manhattan Shirts:
Mark Cross Gloves.

THE TATE-BROWN CO.

CHARLOTTE

———
PROGRAM
. & Orsv*

. YJ a
Thursday. Friday and Saturdav, March 3ist, April ist, 2nd
B OVERTURE
e

Academy Orchestra
Direction Charles H. Shonlaod

F PATHE NEWS
° ROLIN COMEDY

K CLARE CARROLL

In Song Characterization

- WESTON YOUNG and COMPANY
E In ‘“‘What's the Idea’’—A meet Farce With Five Capable
layers ;

| I AMANDA GILBERT and COMPANY

In Music and Song

} T "CHARLES LEANARD ELETCHER

Artistic Delineator of Character Studies

H NESTOR AND VINCENT

l Offering a Unique Novelty {
