Attend
Morning
Watch

Ti: DA VIM SONIAN

' FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Eat
Elon

Vol. IX.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.. NOVEMBER 17, 1921.

No. tl

Armistice Day and Davidson Day
Jointly Celebrated Last Friday

Records Presented of Davidson Men Who Have Done Things in War |

and in Peace, and of Those Who Have Passed over the River—
Fine Address by Dr. B. R. Lacy.

On Friday morningythe 11th, at 11:30, the Davidson student body
and some of the citizens of Davidson gathered in Shearer Hall for the.
join celebration of Davidson College Day and Armistice Day. The work
of Davidson men during the recent war made it fitting that the found-
ing of the college and the cessation of hostilities be jointly celebrated.
In the afternoon an excellent exhibition was given by the R. O..T. C.

The exercises commenced with a selec-
tion from the Davidson Band, after
which devotional exercises were con-
ducted by Dr. Richards. oe

Dr. T. W. Lingle, who served as a
welfare worker on the battlefields of
France for 13 months, introduced Dr.
J. W. McConnell, also a world war vet-
eran, as the first speaker of the morn-
ing. Dr. McConnell spoke briefly of
the achievements of Davidson alumni in
recent years. It would be the height
of folly, said Dr. McConnell, to attempt
to cite the names of Davidson men who
have attained to national and even
worldwide prominence and whose deeds,
though often not recorded in everlast-
ing marble, are engraved in the hearts
and minds of their countrymen. How-
ever, in passing a few were mentioned.

Dr. McConnell outlined briefly the
life of Gen. Stephen Ramseur, who lost
his life in the War Between the States,
ond to whom Lee paid a most remark-
able and touching tribute.

One cold, misty morning, in the Ar-
gonne Forest, an American private,
wounded seriously, stormed single hand-
ed a German machine gun nest and took
it without assistance. That man. was
Samuel C. Clarke, of Mooresville, a Da-
vidson alumnus. For this daring and
dangerous. deed he was awarded a D.
S.C.

Many other brave sons of Davidson
laid down their lives on the altar of
their country but their names are too
numerous to mention.

In the religious world Davidson stands
head and shoulders above any college
of her size in the country, having filled
three hundred pulpits with her men and
sent thirty beyond the seas in mission-
ary work. :

Many of the greatest educators of the
country have been furnished from Da-
vidson College. Among these may be
numbered thirty presidents: of colleges
and universities and innumerable pro-
fessors

Next we come to the greatest of them
all—Woodrow Wilson, former president
of Princeton University and twice Pres-
ident of the United States

Thus, in every sphere of life, David-
son men will be found playing their part,
however large or small, as duty and con-
science dictates. m5

(Continued on page 6)

THE WILDCAT SCREAMS

Freshmen and Sophs Fall

Before Junior Quintette

Victories Last Week Place Class of
23 on Top in Championship
ce.

Junior-Soph Game.

The Junior basketball team defeat-
ed the fast Soph team in a_ hari
fought game 41 to 30. The game was
fast and exciting: from start to finish
and only by a spectacular show of light-
ning passwork and uncanny shooting in
the second half were the Juniors able to
obtain a substantial lead. Both clubs
played a defensive game during the
opening period, the guarding being so.
close that neither team was able to score
more than three field goals. Only with
the aid of fouls were the Junior five able
to lead their oppénents by three points
when the first half ended.

Both clubs changed tactics in the. sec-
ond half. The teamwork was remarkable
in this period, and the shooting from
every angle was done in mid-season Var-
sity fashion. Houghton was the high
point man for the evening, running wild
during the second half, and showed rare
form under the basket, tossing in 11
ringers from the field. McConnell and
McBryde were the high lights for the
scrappy Soph team, both showing good
form. Toney, the Junior star guard,
played his usual excellent game, and
looked mighty good.

The summary:

Juniors (41) Position. Sophs (30)
Houghton RF___. McConnell (C)
Brake) sscacc- Elkins
Mauze (C) --- McBryde
Toney ------ - McPherson

Covington __-.----.RG__--__-_- Charnley
Substitutions: Hunter for Mauze,
Myers for McPherson. Field goals:
Houghton 11, McConnell 6, McBryde 6,
Mauze 3, Brake 3, Toney 1, Covington 2,
McPherson 1. Foul goals: Mauze 5 out
of 7, McConnell 2 out of 6. Referee:
“Pat” Crawford. Scorer: Bill Mauze.

Junior-Fresh Game.

A 30-17 victory over the class of ’25
Friday night placed the fighting Junior
basketball quintette in top place for the
inter-class basketball honors, and anni-
hilated the hopes of the Sophs and
Freshmenfor the coveted honor.

The game started off with a rush and
the lead in score swayed from one side
to the other during the first half, both
sides relying on short passes and close
range shots. The second half was much
more spirited than the first, and it was
in this frame that both teams piled up
the bulk of their scores.

After a few minutes’ warming up, the
Juniors took a stride which was to de-
cide the outcome of the contest, the
Freshmen being dazed at the passing
and accurate basket work of their elder
mates. Pete Brake was the shining
light of the game, time and time again
finding the basket on both long and
short shots. Captain Mauze was the
center of the Junior ‘offense, piling up a
total of 10 points, and playing a won-
derful floor game.

{Continued on page 2)

Doc LaFar is Right Guard
and Captain of ildcats

His Leadership and Playing. Big
[ Help to Red and Black
Machine.

The Wildcat eleven is unusually for-
tunate this year in having secured such

a competent captain. D. R. Lafar,
through past achievements on the foot-
ball field, has well demonstrated his

ability to hold this coveted position.

Although “Doc” took no part in foot-
ball at the Gastonia High School, where
he was four years ago, he easily won a
place on the Davidson Scrub team during
his Freshman year, and since then has
been a shining light as right guard on
the Varsity team, and this year has been
piloting the team to victory as its cap-
tain.

Under his leadership the Red and
Black machine has displayed a stellar
brand of football and made a record of
which.all may be justly proud.

He is known not only as’ a football
star, but as one of the most likable
characters on the hill.

D.

Winston Alumni Honor
Team With an Excel- -
lent Banquet

Enjoyable Affair Attended by Team
and a Few Faculty Members
and Students.

Rivaling in its enjoyment the annual
banquet given to the football team by
the Davidson alumni in Atlanta after the
Tech game, was the banquet given in
honor of the, same men after the Caro-
lina game in Winston last Saturday. Be-
ginning a new practice, the Winston
alumni got together and the result was
a delightful banquet at which the Wild-
cat machine were. honor guests.

At 7-o’clock the toastmaster welcomed

(Continued on page 4)

Davidson and Carolina Struggle

to Scoreless Tie in Great Game

Both Teams Contest Every Foot of Ground—Spratt Moore and Schenck
for Wildcats, and Johnson for Tar Heels, Show Fine Form, Ably

Supported by Teammates.

The new athletic field in Winston-Salem was the scene last Satur-
day afternoon of a terrific conflict between the elevens of North Caro-
lina University and Davidson College, the final count being zero to zero.
Probably the largest crowd the Wildcats had played to outside of At-

lanta was present and, despite the exceedingly cold

weather, enjoyed

the wonderful exhibition of fight by the gridiron warriors.

Students Hear Secretary
Chalmers on Obeying

God

One of Dwight’s Kindly but Search.
__ ing Talks Made at “Y” Service.

In°a heart to heart talk,at the “Y”
vesper. service last Sunday, Dwight
Chalmers, “Y” secretary, explained how
any man can become a leader in God's
kingdom by obeying His will.

Although to be a leader in this world
is not the lot of every man, Dwight
said, yet every man who obeys God's
will can. become a leader ‘in His king-
dom. But to do His will in so much as
we are able will be necessary before we
learn to understand what His will is
in every case, and, according to Dwight,
there are four tests to find out whether
we are obeying His will, after we are
sure we are not following our own de-
sires.

First. Is the thing we wish to do a
pure thing? The common belief that
a man cannot be pure, is wrong; a man
can be pure even among the temptations
that’ surround a.college man. Second.
Is it absolutely the honest thing to do?
Is it honest with God and is it honest
with yourself For a man’s real per-
sonality is that side of him which he
shows in the dark; not that ‘side of him
which the world sees in the light. Third.
Is it the unselfish thing to do? Put
yourself in the other fellow’s place and
look at the deed from the other fel-
low’s viewpoint. Would you do as much
for the other fellow as you do for your-
self? And fourth. Does your love en-
ter into the deed? What part does it
play in the act? For love is the out-
standing characteristic of Jesus’ char-
acter and of the characters of His dis-
ciples. These four tests will determine
whether or not you are acting in accord-
ance with God's will.

And after all the fellow that follows
out God’s will is not the servant. The
man that follows the line of least re-
sistance and gives way to his passions
is the slave. He gradually becomes so
self-centered and selfish that the spleere
in which he exists. becomes smaller and
smaller until he finds it impossible to
break away from his method of living.
He gets further and further away from
God. ~While, on the other hand, the
man that obeys God’s will becomes more
and more powerful and accomplishes
great things in this world. The Cru-
saders were an instance of what can
be accomplished, by men who think that
they are acting in accordance with God’s
will, Paul’s life is also a splendid 9x-
ample of true obedience.

This is the second of five talks that
Dwight is to give to the students, and it
is his purpose to make these as informal
and as nearly heart to heart as possible.
J. P. Price announced that the week
from November 14 to 21 would be ob-
served as week of prayer, and that there
would be meetings in chapel every
morning of this week at 7:40 to observe
it as such. 2.

Coach Grey’s Red and Black Wildcat
mounted to the top of its gridiron form
last Saturday, when they laid down a
barrage of 42 centimeter shells, camou-
flaged in pigskin, before their trenches,
turning back the University. of North
Carolina to the slow music of o-o. All
the while 4,000 frenzied moleskin lovers
looked on as the ball traveled up and
down the field.

Although denied the honor of placing
the Red and Black above the Blue and
White for the second consecutive time,
the Wildcats gave the Tarheels a terrible
battle, the Carolinians’ escape from de-
feat being due principally to the great
playing of Johnson. .

The Wildcat was limping but able to
stand and look around when the game
ended. He had cause for good humor,
for Coach Grey demonstrated that he
had a good team up his sleeve. It out-
played the Tarheels and deserved to win.

With the exception of the first quar-
ter and the latter part of the second, the
ball was in Carolina's territory all the
time, In the first period the Chapel Hill
lads carried the. ball to the 12-yard line
and just before the half ended they had
the pigskin on the 2-yard mark. Both
times they fumbled, Davidson recover-
ing.

In the second the Presbyterians
knocked at Carolina’s goal twice. On
the first occasion the ball was lost on
downs, while later Moore’s drop kick
was blocked. The game ended with the
ball in Davidson's possession near mid-
field.

Two special trains carried the local
student body to the Twin City. Led by
the Wildcat band the Davidson students
raised the lower world and blacked it
up. Although outnumbered, they were
in complete vocal control throughout
the game. Near the end of the first half
when Carolina made her most determin-
ed assault upon the Wildcat lines, the
Davidson student body started chant-
ing their beloved “O Davidson,” and the

‘}advance faltered and broke on the 2-

yard line.
Spratt Moore played one of the’ great-
est games of his life. By actual count
(Continued on page 2)

wk Ok Ok Ok Ok Ok ok Ok kK
* WHAT?’S DOING.

* etic

* Thursday—7:15 p. m., Phi and Eu
* Societies.

* Pinehurst: “Wildkittens” vs. N. C.

* State Fresh.

* Friday—Davidson, vs. Elon, Sprunt

* Field, game called 2:30 p. m.

* Saturday—7:15 p. m., Movies.

* Sunday—10:00 a. m., Volunteer Band.
1:00 p. m., C. E. Training Class.
1:30 p. m., Ministerial Band.

3:30 p. m., Dr. Hood’s Bible Class.
4:30 p. m., Christian Endeavor.
6:15 pom. “Y” Service. Speaker,
Mr. Bland Roberts.

Monday—7:00 p.
Leaders’ Meeting.
7:15 p. m., Junior Phi Society.

* Tuesday—6 :45 p. m., Junior Eu Soci-

* ety.

* 7:30 p. m., Address, Dr. Wm. H.

* Woods.

* Wednesday—9:00 p. m., Bible Classes.

Bible Class

m.,

et ee et ee

*

NG? 4b a a a

* * es *& ee e eR eR OR Oe
