e DAVIDSONIAN

‘of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
meas Y Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

i blication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before
Ee leridky. (APHEIES received froman unknown source wiil not be published

--Forum Editor

RI usaueubes. Editor-in-Chief Edi
V x. GAMBLE, Ji Te Paitee . scampus Editor
“H! SMITH...----- t. anaging i a C. A. i
ie H BMIDSO oe ee Ul SAB ey etees fies All Editor
mR € CaM ERS. ~~“Alumni_ Editor Publicity Editor
es is J. H. McKEITHEN
.
REPORTERS’ CLU'‘B
7 FEWELL, ED. — MAUZE, E. H.
BRADFORD, Ww %. GRACY, J. S. MAUZE, G W., V.-Pres
BROWN, C.'V. HESTON, W. M. SH 1, M. Sec.-Treas
BROWN, W. P. 1a (ce MITH, JR.
GALBOPN, M. F. Jones, i t WALTHALL, D, B.
EDRINS, LD. NOX, W. I WILDMAN, A. C.
ELLIOTT, W. T. LACY, T. A WILDMAN, C. F.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

L. Business Manager
and W. S. SHEPARD

L. A. TAYLOR, E. T. wooLFoLe. Asst. Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:

i i fi Circulati Depar' :
M. R. DOUBLES...-..-.-Circulation Manager A is in 2 ont
. >. D. TULLER S.C. FAIN | P.C, HENDERSO
amas tte) ie oeulatlon Managers WATT McCAIN R: L. PRICE

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

This week witnesses the passing of the halfway mark in our fall
term. Have you done half of a term’s work?
D
Davidson considers herself fortunate in having a visit from her hon-
ored alumnus and ex-president, Dr. Henry Louis Smith, and it is hoped
that all who possibly can will come out to hear his address on Monday
_ hight.

D:
The South is justly proud of Georgia’s splendid showing against
Harvard and of Tech’s score against Rutgers, and The Davidsonian
wishes. to add its word of congratulation to the many that have already

been showered on these Paarl
DAVIDSON SPIRIT.

D many different connections Not a man of us but loves the words

and the thing for which they stand, yet who could give a defini-
tion of this spirit? It is an indefinable something, something without
which our college would cease to be a living force and become merely
an institution of learning, and yet something which we cannot fully un
derstand, : :

It is like nothing so much as the electric current which
houses and turns the countless wheels of industry. We cannot doubt
the presence of an enormous power in the wires which conduct it, for
We can see its results on every hand, and yet we cannot adequately ex-
plain its source or its nature. We realize its existence only by its effect.

So it is with the spirit of our college. We cannot explain what it is
nor yet what brings it into being, but we can see its practical applica-
tions on every hand. There are innumerable ways in which such a
spirit works, no one of them showing it in completeness, but all to-
gether bringing out its full significance.

Probably the first thought which suggests itself to us at the men-
tion of Davidson Spirit is that of athletics, and it is notiso without a
just cause. Our contests with other institutions are our chief means of
demonstrating to others that this spirit really exists. There is some-
thing glorious about a team which is putting its all into the fight for
mere love of its college; there is something appealing about a student
body which gives its whole-hearted support to that team whether it
he victorious or defeated. There are sights which appeal to the imagi-
nation, and force themselves on the attention. They are undeniably a
tremendous influence in the life of the school. The trouble with them is
that in the minds of many they have become synonymous with college
spirit and its other elements are forgotten. We are too prone to judge
the worth of an institution entirely by the incidents of the athletic
field.

Davidson teams and Davidson student’ bodies have gained a reputa-
tion for sportsmanship and fighting spirit of which we are all proud. Let
us strive to maintain this reputation and this spirit, for without them
our college could not be what it is today, but let us not make the mis-
take of considering them the only things of importance. If love for our
college really means anything to us it should find application in our
daily lives.

A spirit which does not seek to protect
any place but on the gridiron is of little wort!
derful an exhibition of pluck and gameness
up, or how splendidly a student may have s
leaves the field and by his rowdyism and misconduct brings his student
body into ill repute, there is something lacking in his loyalty,

Again, in life on the campus our spirit should make itself felt. It is
hard to believe that a man who will not Support student government,
who wilfully destroys college property, or who is constantly striving to
create discontent by knocking things in general has the proper love for
his college and devotion to its interests.

We do not mean to say that alll those w
things are totally lacking in,Davidson Spirit.
there is hardly one of us who could claim to be a lo
mater. We do believe, however, that this is the ak
aad that it is only by concentrating our efforts on

Tear ET vw
AVIDSON SPIRIT—How often we hear this phrase, and in how

lights our

the name of its college in
n. No matter how won-
a football player may put
upported his team, if he

ho are guilty of these

If this were the case
al son of his alma
spot in our spirit,
these more neg-

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 27, 1921.

Open Forum -

SOME LIGHT ON THE SUBJECT.

Two reasons can be advanced for not
letting the article in last week’s David-
sonian on lights go unchallenged or ig-
nored,

First: Many friends away from the|
college, not acquainted with the local |
conditions, might regard the article as a}
true portrayal of the facts. Second: The |
men on the campus who have not been |
here long enough to know. the sustained
policy of the college with reference to
the comfort and success of the students
should not have their minds prejudiced.

It is true that there were men in col-
lege last year who had three, and even
scven, lights, just as there was a man
in South Wing Chambers who had four
mattresses on his bed while his neighbor
across the hall had none, and just as
some men not many years ago kept a
rooster and some hens in a room in
North Wing Chambers. Reference to
the available records show that lights
have not been “gradually diminished,”
but that one light of 16 c. p. was the al-
lowance until 1913, then one light of 40
watts until 1919, when two lights of 40!
watts each were installed. Last year
there was an increase made from 40
watts lights to two 50 watts and at that
time an expert from the Edison Madza
Lamp Works was brought here to meas-
ure the foot candle power that the above
wattage would give, and he, a man in-
terested in providing abundant light,
gave the assurance that the allowance
was altogether sufficient.

It is a fagt, also, which probably did
not occur to the writer of the article
referred to, that the buildings were
wired when erected to accommodate but
one small light to the room. Were three
lights placed in each room insurance |
regulations as’ to the amount of current
for each circuit of wires in these build-
ings would be violated. Had Chambers,
Georgia or Watts burned last May, and
the real situation with reference to the |

the condition of the wiring and fuse
plugs been established, it’ is doubtful
whether one cent of insurance could
have been collected.

The writer of the article might have
compared Davidson with other institu-
tions. Winthrop, for instance, has one
‘tight and three girls to each and every
room. Ask the men of the athletic
teams how Davidson compares in this
respect with the colleges they visit. The
facts will not show that a very persist-
ent effort has been made to depopular-
ize Davidson.

It has been but a few years sittce there
was a bushheap observed of all observ-
ers about 100 feet east of the Georgia; all
the bushes on the campus were piled
there. There were no showers or toilets
on either end of Chambers until 1916;
until 1919 each room in Chambers had
its own coal bin and the college provided
no fuel; there was no furniture provid-
ed in Chambers by the college until
1916. Refer to the copies of the Annual
and Davidsonians to get some idea of
smoking refrigerators that were the sole
dependence for heating the chapel and
the chemical laboratory. Papers were
picked up around the dormitoriese pos-
sibly once a week.

Records show that more than $3,000
has been spent in the last five years or
beds, mattresses, chiffoniers and tables
until now it is seriously doubted if there
is another college in. the state that has
on the whole as good furniture as Da-
vidson. Until four years ago a janitor
Was not paid more than $18 per month,
while now the wages are twice that;
coal was $4.00 per ton and now $8.00, and
the yearly requirement'is about 750 tons.
Other expense has increased accordingly.
The college fees have been increased
some, but hardly in proportion.

It is regretted’ that the funds available
have not made it possible for the board
to set aside an appropriation to calci-
mine and paint the interior of all the
rooms before now. The question has
been considered from year to year. The
manner in which the barracks rooms
are treated this year will, it is believed,
be an argument in favor of having this
work ‘done in the very near future.

Two years ago Davidson asked the
students if they would be willing to
double up.. The almost unanimous re-
sponse was a beautifully expressed loy-

lected phases of college life that we can improve it,
. z }
J

alty. And no one yet, it is thought, has

|
|
|
|

| caressed her and she closed her eyes in

number of lights to certain rooms and i

oY
GDeeM ;

Read the Exchanges in the “Y”. Room. '

THE COLLEGE GRAD.

Tell me not in mournful numbers,
College is but waste of steam; .
For although they make some blundérs,
College men have got the “bean.”

All enjoyment and not sorrow,
Is ‘the student’s life today;
Work put off until tomorrow,
Gives new life and time to play.
Art is long and science tedious,
And our hearts though brave
stout;
Like unmuffled Fords are beating,
When the X reports come out.
Lives of graduates all remind us,
We can throw away our time
And some day can leave behind us,
College life, the all sublime.
—Tar Baby.
B

“TWO KINDS OF PEOPLE.”

and

Now, the two kinds of people on earth,
I mean, are the people that lift and the
people that lean. Wherever you go you
will find the earth’s masses are always
divided into just these two classes. And,
odd enough, you will find, too, I ween,
there is only one lifter to twenty that
lean.In which class are you? Are you
easing the load of overtaxed lifters who
toil down the road? Or are youa leaner

|and let others bear your portion of labor}

and problem and care?—Selected.
i D.
CONSOLED.

She lay in his arms and sunggled her
head against his neck. A rush of emo-
tion surged through her—tenderly -he

delight.

“Poor kitty, did I step on your tail?”
—Illinois Siren.

D.

The Student Government at Richmond
College has added another feature to its
activities in taking charge of the chapel
attendance. No checking system is to
be used, but when a student has been
absent from chapel for six times, he is
on his honor to report himself to the
Senate.

D.
FRESHMAN DEBATES.

One of the most gratifying develop-
ments in the literary societies this year
is the unmistakable evidence of a keen
interest on the part of Freshmen in their
debates.

In the first place a large number of
new men joined the societies, and the
fact that practically all of them have
begun active work, either on the pro-
gram, or in the tryout, augurs good for
them and their society—Red and Black
(University of Georgia).

D
AT PARTING.

He. spoke to me in softest tones

And, leaning low above my chair,
He slipped his arm around my neck;

I was too desperate to care.

I felt his gaze upon my mouth

And—Well, hear the shocking truth;

I tightly closed my eyes, prepared

For him to pull my tooth. —Ex.

D.

The Yale University swimming team
lowered the world’s record for the 800-
foot relay nearly seven seconds when
they paddled the distance in two minutes
and 22 seconds against the Pennsylvania
quartet. The previous record, which
was held by the same team, was 2:28 4-5.

been forced to room three to the room,
and right-now there are several vacan-
cies that will make possible a transfer
for any .who are too crowded for good
work. This loyalty, it should be remem-
bered, was not on the part of students
alone, but practically every one on the}
college pay roll:has been called for extra
work without extra remuneration other
than the satisfaction of seeing Davidson
succeed. .

Davidson has spent thousands of dol-
lars to make living and studying condi-
tions better and expects to spend still
other thousands for the same good end.

With Other Colleges

(By N. C.C. PA.)

N. C. C. W. LITERARY
SOCIETIES ACTIVE

Greensboro, N. C., Oct. 18—The new
students of the Nosth Carolina College
for Women will be officially received in-
to the literary societies of the college
| Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, of this
week through the initiation ceremonies
of the societies. Notices of election and
invitations to initiation have already
gone out, each society receiving a pro-
portional number of the new students.
The Adelphian initiation and banquet
will be held October 2oth, the Cornelian,
October 21st, and the Diken, October

Aatlt

D
N. C. C. W. PLANS TO AID y., W.C.A,

Greensboro, N. C., Oct. 18—By means
of an intensive canvass and campaign
now being staged on the campus, the
Y. W. C. A. of the North Carolina Col-
lege for Women will increase its strength
numerically and financially. A cam-
paign program having as its special fea-
tures, the vesper service, a “stunt”
demonstration -on Wednesday evening,
and the Y. W. C. A. issue of the Caro-
linian, is expected to result in a great
increase in membership, a better work-
ig organization, and the raising of the
recently accepted budget of $2,655.

D.

(Editor’s Note—The short length of
this department for this week is un-
avoidable. It is dependent on the other
colleges, and they failed to send in any
news.)

D.

LOCAL PUBLICATIONS SEND
MEN TO PRESS CONVENTION

The North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association will hold its regular semi-
annual meeting at the North Carolina
College for Women, in Greensboro, on
Friday and Saturday, October 28th and
20th. The Davidson publications will
be represented by W. A. Gamble and J.
H. McKeithan, for The Davidsonian, and 4
D. T. Mahood and G. H. Cornelson, for
the Davidson College Magazine.

Thé association is composed of ten or
eleven North Carolina college -weeklies
and eight or nine college magazines. It
was organized last February at Chapel
Hill with the object of promoting the
best interests of the college publications
of the state. J. E. Cassell, former Edi-
tor-in-Chief of The Davidsonian, was
elected as first president at that meeting.
At the last meeting, which was held at
Davidson last spring, Miss Anne Can-
trell, of N. C. C. W., was elected presi-
dent, and Miss Emeline Goforth, of N.C.
C. W., secretary.

One of the principal features of the
association is the weekly interchance of
news. The Davidsonian added a new de-
partmeht for this work and owing to
the splendid work of W. J. Cooper, pub-
licity editor, it is now not only exchang-
ing with all the North Carolina college
publications, but also sending news items
to the leading neswpapers’ throughout
the South. :
D

'Y, AND JONES

McGUKIN, LAC

At the last meeting of the Polity Club,
held in the Kappa Alpha Hall, several
important national and international
problems were discussed. Though brief,
the entire meeting was very interesting.
Mr. Emmett B. McGukin, the first man
on, the progrom, discussed “The Recent
Developments in the Irish Situation.”
On the other hand, “The Relations Be-
tween the United States and Ireland”
was thoroughly explained by Mr. T. A.
Lacy. Both of these discussions brought
out some striking facts in regard to the
Irish question, which has for some time
Seen a menace to world peace. In a re-
view of current events, Mr. James R.
Jones stressed the recent railway situ-
ation. This important question was dis-
cussed from many angles by the whole
club.

This is only the second meeting of the
club for the year and already it has
done some splendid work. The members |
are very much interested in the club,

JL. F.

and are getting much out of it.
