4

The DAVIDSONIAN

ber of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
_Metlember of Southem Collegiate Prese Association,

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF "15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

QE

ed &
ih} PS %

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Article for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
p. m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

--nsensesn---Editor-in-Chied . P. PRICE Forum Editor
wy re GUGBLES SR iisagie Editor : S. CURRY. pus Editor
H. H. SMITH... Managing Editor C. BAILEY, JR... ¥. M,C. A. Editor
R. F. DAVIDSO! Assignment. Editor . SPRUNT. -Social Editor
AE eee Abies eae Sn aoa Eble

we on ni « J. COOPER.....-.-.---....
ati eae creas J. i. McKEITHEN.......... Exchange Editor
REPORTERS’ CLUB
: h FEWELL, ED. MAUZE, E.’H,
BRADPORD, Wo. GRACY, J. S. MAUZE, G. W., V.-Pres
BROWN, C. V. HESTON, W. M. MORRIS, HM: Sec.-Treas
BROWN, W. P. 1, J.C. .H.
) ES, J. R. TULLER, C. D.
COX We Jone i KE WALTHALL, D. B.
ELKINS, L. D. NOX, W. I. WILDMAN, A. C.
ELLIOTT, W. T. LACY, T. A. WILDMAN, C. F.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

- C, WOOL Busi Manager i
L, A. TAYLOR, E. T. WooLFOLy and W. S. SHEPAR: Asst. Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:

M. R. DOUBLES Circulation M Assi in Circulation Department:
suKi L C.D. TULLER S. C. FAIN P, C. HENDERSON
ei an Circulation Managers WATT McCAIN R. L. PRICE

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

Who says the fighting spirit of the Wildcats is dead?
D.

“A good character is worth more%than a good bank account.”
: ) :

D
“Excuses are the tools with which incompetents build for them-
selves great monuments of nothing.”
D:
Are you satisfied with The Davidsonian as your college paper? If
not, come to us and tell us how it can be improved. The staff is always
ready for helpful suggestions.

; —D
Now that every student is to be held responsible for all damag2 to
his own room we may expect to scea lessening in the destruction of col-

lege property.

Let’s make Saturday Davidson

D——_——_?
College Day in Winston-Salem.
D

: THE MOVIES.

OR the past two and a half years the Davidson College Y. M. C. A.
Pin: been ptoviding the students with a weekly moving» picture

show. Through the efficiency of those in charge of these pictures,
the quality of the productions shown has been steadily improved until
now it is possible for us to see the latest and best films at smaller prices
than theatre goers in Charlotte pay to see them. These entertainments
have come to hold an important place in the program of the week for
almost every student, and there are few who would be willing to dis-
pense with them as a theans of recreation. In spite of this fact, how-
ever, we have not given any sufficient proofs of our appreciation of the
pains taken to amuse us..

The only place available for the presentation of the silent drama at
Davidson is the floor of the gymnasium. This space has been pressed
into service through the use of the movable benches with which we
are all familiar, and at the risk of seriously damaging the basketball
court. It would seem that the least the students could do to show their
appreciation of the movies would be to exercise a little care not to in-
jure the floor, but the thought of any responsibility on our part seems
to be entirely lacking. |

In spite of frequent requests to refrain from these actions, there
are many who persist in smoking and dropping the stubs during shows,
throwing chewing gum on the floor, or dragging the benches about in-
stead of lifting them. A little ex-amination of the basketball court in
daylight will show the effects of all these abuses. Unless we take care
of the floor now it will not be worth our trouble much longer. Let us
exercise a little more care in this particular.

es D

ARMISTICE DAY.

Tomorrow marks the coming of the third anniversary of a day
which probably brought more general rejoicing to the human race than
any which had gone before it. Three years have passed since the ces-
sation of hostilities in the bloodiest war of human history, and during
that period the most of the world has been blessed with peace. Amer-
ica has been too quick to forget the sacrifices which her young men
were called on to make in this struggle, and the thousands who laid
down; their lives in France. It is only fitting that tomorrow should be
set aside for a celebration which shall be a real tribute to the "memory
of these heroic soldiers.

Davidson is to have her part in the celebration of the day and

- preparations have been made for holding of appropriate exercises.
Whether this attempt to observe the day with proper respect is to be
successful or not depends only on us. If we perform our part of its

; pputies in the attitude of doing something which is forced upon us, we
had much. better be engaged in our regular studies. . If, however, we
discharge them in a real spirit of patriotism, the time and effort ex-
ided will be well worth while. Surely we should adopt the latter
and make this attempt to celebrate Armistice Day a complete

I stood upon “A” Mountain,

And looked down on it, plain;

I saw a lot o’ green heads

That looked like waving. grain.

I took another look, *

I thought it must be grass;

But goodness! to my horror,

It was the Freshman Class!
—Tiny, the Fresh.
D.

The Harvard Glee Club has just re-
turned from a successful tour of France
and Italy, this being the first time a trip
of this kind has been made by an Amer-
ican college chorus and the first time ;
an official invitation has been tendered
by European govvernments and expenses
subsidized by them to such an organi-
zation,

D
ATHLETIC GROUNDS PREPARED
FOR USE OF THE CO-EDS.

The women students of Trinity be-
sides having full dormitory facilities, will
have athletic grounds for-their exclusive
use, thus‘relieving the congestion which
is noticeable on the tennis courts every

rday. Two tennis courts, and a volley

ball court have already been laid off and
will be constructed immediately. The
tennis courts will be adaptable to volley
ball. Besides this the girls are consid-
ering the building of a baseball diamond.
--Trinity Chronicle.

D.
GOING UP.
An Englishman went to a_ baseball
game, and both sides made one run

each during the first inning. The Eng-
lishman watched the score board in-
tently, as each team failed to make a
run inning after inning. The game had
gone sixteen innings, and the figure
one and the zeroes following had left
an impression on the mind of the Eng-
lishman. As he went down the street
after the game, a small boy stopped him
and asked what the score was. “Oh,”
said the Englishman. “I lost all track
of the game; it is way up in the mil-
lions —The Argonaut.

D.

ARMISTICE DAY PROGRAM.
RESERVE OFFICERS’ TRAINING
CORPS UNIT.
DAVIDSON COLLEGE.

Where—Sprunt Athletic Field.
* When—2:45 p. m.

What—

1.‘ March of Battalion on the Field
and Presentation of the Battalion to
Battalion Sponsor. Major Phillips, com-
manding,

Miss Steel, Sponsor—Goddess of Amer-
ica.

2, Stunt by Company “A.”—Captain
Richards, commanding.

Miss Richards, Sponsor—Goddess of
North Carolina.

3. Stunt by Company
Lowry, commanding.

Miss Gibbs, Sponsor—Goddess of the
Harvest. f

4. Stunt by Company “C.’—Captain
Mclllwaine, commanding.

Miss Finlayson, Sponsor—Goddess of
Autumn.

5. Stunt by Company “D.”—Captain
Miller, commanding.

Miss Martin, Sponsor—Goddess
Dixie.

6. Announcement of the decision of
the judges.—Dr. Fraser Hood.

7.. Presentation of Honor Flag to win-
ner.—Mr, F. L, Jackson.

8 Remarks—Courtesy to the Flag.—
Dr. J. W. McConnell.

9. Retreat and Battalion Parade—Ma-
jor Phillips, commanding.

| peas

A compulsory education law has been
passed in Peru. The law makes instruc-
tion obligatory for boys and girls be-
igween the ages of six and 14 years. Pa-
rents and guardians are obliged to prove
that minor children in theig charge have
received the instruction proper to their
ages in authorized public or private
schools. Government schools will give
free instruction, including the necessary

“B."—Captain

of

j but some of our friends paid us a call

-|are lacking in another; also the excuse

books, etc.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 10, 1921.

Open Forum

STEALING TIME.

Who does not know some member of
the “Idle Family.” Idleness is a sly
thief; she snatches a minute here and a
few minutes there; she clips a quarter

of an hour from our math lesson, or our |
other, college duties. We. determine |
every day when we get shot on a review |
or daily recitation that she shall have)
none of that night, but we have to con-|
fess, her petty thefts with chagrin, not |
always because we did not want to study,

and the night was gone before we were
aware of the fact. In order that all
might have sufficient time for study at |
night it would be wise to’ set aside the
hours from eight to eleven entirely for
study. ;

There are thousands of honest stu-|
dents who would not dare take a penny
from a fellow student, but would not
hesitate to drop in his room and steal |
an hour of his time, which no money can |
replace. He who steals the time of a}
student trespasses on the college’s honor.

Vela ke
D.

LET’S BE A LITTLE ENGLISH.

Anyone who has been following the
class basketball games could not but
notice the amount of fouling that has
been done. Not that it has been called
by the referee every time, but it was
certainly evident to those on the side-
lines. Of course this can be partially
excused by the fact that these are really
pre-season games, . that the fellows
haven’t gotten into shape and that they
have to make up in one way what they

is presented that the class games. are
supposed to be more or less rough, for
this ‘will help stir up pep. Nobody likes
a hard fought game better than we do,
but there is no one who hates to see all
the pushing, holding, and hacking, worse
than we do.

Everyone should work toward the goal
of having class basketball as hard
fought and as cleanly played as possi-
ble. Referees, players, and rooters
should all taboo the man who tries to
run in any dirty stuff.

An article has come out in the Outlook
which should be read by every sport-
lover. There is not enough space to
print the whole article, but an extract
will suffice to show the tenor of it:

“Attention has frequently been called
to the contrast between the objective
of the average American and his Eng-
lish cousin in .athletic contests. The
American it is said plays to win; the
Englishman for the fine points of the
game, Of course we typical Americans
will deny with typical American vigor
any implication that we should resort
to dishonesty to win, but it must be
manifest on reflection that just as sure-
ly as we go into the game with winning
as our objective, just as surely as stu-
dent bodies and townsfolks are insistent
upon our winning, just as surely as our
rooters, and, above all, our players have
money up on the outcome of the game,
there is grave danger of our falling into
methods of playing that hardly measure
up to the highest ethical standards.

“Let us not ask our American athlete
to turn English over night, but they are
indeed a provincial people who cannot
learn some profitable lessons from their
neighbors, and we Americans surely need
to learn and then to insist that to play
a fine game and to do one’s honest best
in any kind of contest means far more
than being able to hang up the larger
figures on the score board. Students
who are proved guilty of slugging or
other unsportsmanlike conduct, instead
of being given ovations by their sup-
porters must have made manifest to
them the disapproval of anything but
the cleanest kind of playing and must
be subjected upon repetition of the of-
fence to drastic punishment, even to re-
moval from alt athletic contests.”

Can we not afford to be a little Eng-
lish in class basketball as well as in all
other forms of athletics? A Fan.

ae ;

SURPRISE HALLOWE’EN
PARTY GIVEN
BOYS BY MRS. GIBBS

A Hallowe'en supper at Mrs. Gibbs’

October 31st was one of the big sur-

STUDENTS AND TOWNS-
PEOPLE SEE “ CITY OF
SILENT MEN.”

Fresh from the victory over the Wof-
ford team by the “Red and Black” ma-
chine, a large part of the student body
crowded into the gym last. Saturday
night to witness the weekly movie.
After ‘singing “O Davidson,” the lights
were turned off and the picture, “The
City of Silent Men,” was begun.

Under the direction of Thomas For-
man, Thomas Meighan and his assistant,
Lois Wilson, were starréd. Mother love
is portrayed throughout the entire pic-
ture in a very effective way. Meighan,
a poor mechanic, lives in a ¢mall country
town with his aged mother; upon going
to the city to seek his fortune he falls
into the hands of unprincipled men and

jis unjustly accused of murder. Having ©

no means of proving his innocence, he
is sentenced to life imprisonment. His
mother, after hearing of her son’s sad
plight, becomes heartbroken, and is taken
dangerously ill, Meighan now decides
to attempt an escape from Sing Sing to
try to get to his dying mother. Suc-
cessful in his escape, he arrives at home
just in time for the funeral, but is forced
to remain in the woods as a fugitive.

In time Meighan becomes manager of
a.large woolen mill, marries the daugh-
ter of the president of the company, and
is then made vice-president. Detectivés,
who have trailed and located him, seeing S
his condition, decide to let him off. How-
ever, shortly afterward the real mur-
derer is found through the activity of
Meighan’s former cell-mate. Meighan is
pardoned by the governor, and lives a
straight life, happy in his freedom,

The music furnished by the orchestra
was very good, and was thoroughly en- |
joyed by all. This, with the entertain-
ment offered by the pictures, made the
Program one of the best of the season.

D

CHANGES IN POINT SYSTEM
BEING MADE BY STUDENTS

The student body recently voted to
make several changes in the point sys-
tem now in force at Davidson, a system
originally adopted in order to prevent a
small group of men from holding all the
effices at Davidson. Under this system
one man could hold only ten points at
one time. In the past a man was allow-
ed to hold two five-point’ offices at the
same time, but one of the new rulings
now makes that impossible. . With the
above mentioned changes the grading of
the various offices is now as follows:

Student Body—President, 5; vice-pres-
ident, 1; secretary and treasurer, 1; Stu-
dent Council, 1.

Athletic Association — President, 5;
vice-president, 1; treasurer, 4.

Athletics—Football, baseball and bas-
ketball: captain, 1; manager, 5; assist-
ant manager, 2. Track: Captain, 1; man-
ager, 3. Tennis: Manager, 2,

Y. M. C. A.—President, 5; cabinet, 1.

. Davidsonian—Editor, 5; business man-
ager, 4; managing editor, 5; assignment
editor, 3; circulation manager, 3; staff, 2.

Annual—Editor, 5; manager, 5; assist-
ant manager, 2; staff, 2, :

Magazine—Editor, 4; manager, 3; staff,
2, {

Literary Society—President, 1; secre-
tary, 1; treasurer, 2; reviewer, 1; mar-
shall, 1; chief marshall, 2,

Class—President, 1; historian, 1.

Debating Council—Chairman, ‘2;. mem-
ber, 1.
—=S>>==—s_=_—_=—————
prises of the year. When the boys
started into the dining room, every-
thing was dark and a cry for lights was
the first thing to be thought of by many
of uae But after going in, it was seen
that each table had in its center a pump-
kin and candle and was decorated in a
way fitting to the occasion. The*waiters
were dressed as witches and every plate
had a witch place card. From _ the
chandelier were-yellow and black stream-
ers and the same effect was carried out
on the tables. Even the supper carried
out the color scheme with yellow salad
and fruits and chocolate cake.

After the boys lad been seated and
realized the meaning of the affair, a
yell was given for Mrs. Gibbs before
anyone started his meal. Virtually ev-
erything from soup to nuts was served
and it is needless to say that everyone
left feeling that he had helped to dispose
of the best meal ever served to David-
son students, °
