*

The DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Intercollegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

. Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
to Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

i i t be in the hands of the Managing Editor before
Met eee avticisi received from an unknown source will not be published.

...Editor-in-Chief
ELL......-.-.---.---. eweccneee > h

5. 1 RICHARDS Managing Editor
Y P. ORMOND. ecnaneocgrnnnon--------Assistant Managing Editor

wareeneencee---Assignment Editor
( 0) (a n i
f +S DOUBLER. annannsoncccnecnnsan-----------Athletic Editor

encewece snccne---~-----~----~------Alumni Editor

MeCASKILL weaeennnnecceccccencccnncncneennnee Exchange Editor
BOULWARE. ...22--~--1------2-- --22--2-0-- 20-22 ---o-------- Forum Editor
DUNLAP. panwenceenennnannnnenene eno ------- === Campus Editor

j, ROBERTS... weveneneonnnense¥. M,C. A. Editor
“HILL. veneeene ene Social Editor

. GASTON, JR.- 2-2 nnn n nnn nnn ann nn nnn nnnnnnenan-----------Literary Editor

REPORTERS’ CLUB

King, A. D. Ogden, D. H.
Lacy, T. A. Ormond, A. C.
Long, C. G Phillips, J. W.
Mahood, i L. Sprunt, J.

Mauze, G. W.

Mitchell, A. M. Summers, A. C.
Morris, H. M. Tuller, C. D.
Lowrance, D. W. Wool, J. C.

]

>

—

abel -4
Pam

>
4

7]

fe

>=

=f

Bailey, J. C.
Bitzer, R.
Cooper, W. J.

Cunningham, C. E.
Davidson, R. F.

Gamble, W. A.
Jones, J. R.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
Cc. J. MATTHEWS........-..-------.--- -...---.--------.--.-
E. A. NASH } Assistant Managers

j. S. CURRY
Gon... eewwewenenenensncncese. Circulation Manager
S & S CA a errr Assistant Manager
Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

This week ushers in the baseball season in full strength. The team
needs your support, so do not fail them..
D

We welcome the Christian Endeavor delegates to our campus.

D——____

The Sunday afternoon band concert was greatly enjoyed during Jun-
ior Speaking. What is to prevent this becoming a custom here during

the spring months ?.

Business Manager

- eee ee
Pe OSe TES mee.

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:

—__ p—__—_
A Davidson gentleman is always courteous to his elders and supe-
tiors.
A PARTING WORD.

HIS issue marks the last efforts of the present Staff to serve the
J readers of our publication. It has been a pleasure to have at-
tempted to bring to you the kind of paper that you desired, and
if we have Piiled in our task it is not because of the lack of earnestness
and zeal on the part of the editors and their assistants. While troubles
unforseen caused us to reduce the size of our publication, yet we have
tried in every possible way to maintain its standard of quality.

And so it is with a sense of regret that we now relinquish our work
to our successors, knowing that for some of the editors it means the
end of a college career in which they have tried to serve their institu-
tion. We are glad to have had the opportunity, and in parting take the
privilege of wishing to our friends the best that life can bring them.

——_—_—_)D——_____.
WHICH IS MY CLASS?

It has been interesting to note the discussion being waged at present
in some papers as to whether a college course reall pays. There can be
no doubt that many students fail to achieve the best results of a col-
lege education, but it is our firm belief that this is the fault of the boy
and not of the college. For the boy entering college there are several
paths that he may pursue, and the nature of the path that he selects will
determine whether his college education is to be a failure or success.

As we see it there are four classes or types of men in college;
namely, the men who come to college for pleasure or because it is a
matter of style ; the men who come solely for athletics; the men who
come only for study, and lastly the men who come to serve as well as
to receive,

Just at this time in the middle of present-day civilization it is
more important than ever that college men choose wisely their class, for
their choice determines whether they are to become leaders in the world
or are to sink into obscurity. The man who comés just for pleasure is
fairly sure to develop into a “human parasite” who never does anything
worth while. The man who comes just for athletics, because of the
glory and excitement attached thereto, is liable to seek the worldly life.
The man who comes just for study is heading for a selfish career because
of his oversight of his fellowmen. But the all round student is the man
to whom the world is looking to be her leader because of his high
ideals and ambitions to spend his life in service for others.

No one can make this choice for you. It is a straight personal mat-
ter for each student to decide for himself, and we would urge that each
man be careful in his college career which must of necessity determine
this future life.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 25, 1921.

ABSENCE REGULATIONS.

The new absence regulations—are they
more suited to a high standard college
than to a junior college or preparatory
school? When a man comes to college
he should come of his own free will and
with the purpose of seeing how much
work he can do, not how much he can
get out of. In other words the man who
comes to college should not only handle
his own financial matters, but he should
be responsible as well for his college
life. The college trains the man for his
position in life. If the man in college
has not responsibility thrust upon him,
when will he get such training? Every
man in business must certainly have
enough responsibility to handle his own
problems. Can someone be always
handling his affairs for him?

Many of the men in colleges today;
that is, in many colleges, are compara-
tively young and certainly cannot be as
responsible as the older men. Their
check comes in regularly from home.’
They keep no account of their expenses.”
This is all done for them, thereby re-
lieving them of all responsibility. Not
only are his finances handled for him,
but his class-room work and attendance
in class are all handled by college
authorities. This is all very good for
the young man—the prep school boy.
Such a man as this is not prepared for
college and should not be there. Which
man is going to get the most out of col-
lege life—the man who handles his own
affairs, or the man who has someone
else handle them for him?

The country has not adequate facilities
for offering a higher education to all her
youth. All colleges are crowded to over-
flowing with many applications waiting.
This being the case, why should not
those most worthy of, and who really
want to get an education, be selected
first?

Bringing the matter home, is David-
son the kind of college a hard-warking
responsible studenf—the one who
amounts to most in life—really wants?
Does this type of student need strict
absence regulations to force him to at-
tend classes? -The majority of students
at Davidson are of this hard-warking
type; in fact, that is Davidson's reputa-
tion. Strict rules and regulations are no
doubt just the think for a few, but should
the majority have to suffer for the few?
Are there not enough applications to fill
Davidson full and to overflowing with
the more responsible type of student?
Why then, should Davidson not make
rules to. accommodate this type of stu-

dent and let the others seek a junior |:

college or preparatory school where they
will feel more at home?
“Responsibility.”

INTERCOLLEGIATE DEBATING
TEAMS CHOSEN IN FINAL
CONTEST.

The old walls of the Phi Halt echoed
and reechoed with floods of oratory on
Friday afternoon when eight men hotly
contested fora place on this spring’s
debating teams.

Four men were chosen by a prelim-
inary contest in each society and the
final elimination was held Friday in the
Phi Hall. The query was: “Resolved,
that the United States should cancel the
loans made to her allies during the Great
War. The affirmative was upheld by
A. P. Ormond, R. Bitzer, J. F. Clark, and
L. A. Taylor; while the negative was up-

held by J. M. Dunlap, P. D. Miller, C. G.,

Long, and W. A. Gamble, Jr. The judges
decided in favor of Bitzer, Dunlap, Or-
mond, and Gamble; with Miller and Tay-
lor as alternates. The judges were Dr.
McConnell, Dr. Shewmake, Prof. Wood,
Prof. Currie, and Prof. Erwin.

The four winners will make up the
two debating teams to represent the col-
lege in contests against Wake Forest
and Mercer. The Davidson-Wake For-
est debate will be held in Raleigh on
April 15, and the Davidson-Mercer de-
bate will be held in Spartanburg on
April 2oth. The subject for both debates
will be the same as used here Friday, and
Davidson will argue the affirmative side
in both cases.

Bitzer and Gamble will compose the
team against Wake Forest; Ormond and
Dunlap against Mercer.

D—__..

Mr. R. L. Douglass, Brother of Drs. J.
L. and J. M. Douglass, and prominent
lawyer of Chester, S. C. spent the week-
end in Davidson with his brothers,

WITH THE OTHER COLLEGES.

University Organizes Band—All Bev-
erages Blacklisted._

EXCHPNGE
CLEA, EE
ie?

Chapel Hill—Mr. J. Y. Jordan, of Ashe-
ville, a law student here and formerly in
consular service at Brest, has just or--
ganized a fourteen-piece band for the
“Hill.” Mr. Jordan has had some ex-
perience in this line and his organiza-
tion will be in shape by the time of the
first game of the season, March 23.

The psychology department here is
carrying on an extended experiment
with the children in the high school here
as subjects. The test deals with intel-
ligence and is similar to one carried out
by Dr. Chase here several years ago. The
results will be compared with those
found at the earlier test.

“Fats” Hanby, who achieved distinc-
tion as guard on this year’s basketball
team and also showed up well as tackle
on the gridiron, has been chosen captain
of the basketball team for next year.
Hanby was ineligible for basketball last
year, but prior to that time he played
with Wake Forest, where he made quite
a record.

The student council has decreed with .
great solemnity that absolutely no bev-
erages shall be imbibed when the fair
damsels wander up to the “Hitt next
week for the terpischorean feats. In
fact they say that any man appearing at
a dance whe even smells as if he wanted
a drink will be shipped thereupon “with-
out benefit of clergy.” The opinions of
the council were set forth by Mr. Bailey
Lipfert, who says furthermore that ev-
ery man is councilman and that the sys-
tem must reach a status were a man will
report his own room-mate without com-
punction.

A whale skeleton 55 feet long has been
recently unearthed on the banks of the
Tar by Mr. Sam Lee of the geological
aprement and is being sent to Chapel

ill.

ok

Georgia Tech has at last secured per-
mission from the faculty to publish a
comic magazine, and the first issue of
the “Tortiado” will appear in a short
time. The Editor-in-Chief is J. E.
Briggs, Jr., and the Business Manager is
R. E. Beamon, Jr.

The “Auburn Five Thousand Dollar
Club,” composed entirely of present and
former women students of the Alabama
Polytechnic «Institute, was organized
March 3d, for the purpose of raising $5,-
000.00 to help equip Smith Hall and a
Domestic Science Department for wom-
en students. Plans have been formu-
lated for raising the fund and the money
is to be in the hands of the committee
at.an early date.

Sherwood Eddy, foremost leader in the
study of student social and religfous
problems, who will conduct a series of
meetings here beginning Tuesday night,
will be the speaker at the University
Hour in Cabell Hall, at 12 o’clock on
Tuesday, March 22d. Mr. Eddy's subject
for this meeting will be, “The Challenge
of the Present World Situation.”

“In 1876," remarked the old man, “girls
wore dresses down to their ankles. In
in 1900 they came between the anktes
and the knees. In 1920 they came to
their knees.”

“Oh, Lord,” prayed the old man, “won't
you let me live about. ten years longer.”

Upon the beach she held my hand.
I let my soul-felt pleadings flow;
I coaxed, I begged, I swore, but yet—
That doggone crab would not let go.
—Punch Bowl.

Deveroaux Players at Wake Forest.

Wake Forest—The famous Devereaux
players gave two performances before
delighted audiences here on Monday,
March 14th.

Rostand’s “Romancers” was the mat-
inee offering. It is a very pleasing play
and the splendid work of Miss Zinita
Graff and Mr. Ford made it doubly at-
tractive. At the evening performance,
the captivating play, “Daniel Druce,”
was presented in a manner that.delight-
ed a large audience.

Taking as his subject “War Declared,”
D. R. Hodgin, representing Carolina, won
first place in the second annual contest
of the Southern Oratorical League held
here Friday night, winning over repre-
sentatives of five other Southern uni-
versities. Johns Hopkins University
won second place and Kentucky took the
third honors.

Well, Well!
Conversation in the drug store:
Drug Clerk—‘Do you want a narrow
man’s comb?”
“Venus” Edmundson—“No, 1 want a
comb for a stout man with rubber teeth.”

Junior-Senior Prom and Tennis
ment at Salem.

Salem—The spring tennis tournament
played during the past week confirmed
our belief that Elizabeth Zackery is the
champion tennis player in school. The
Westbrook trophy cup was presented to
her by Dr, Rondthaler at chapel service
Thursday morning.

May 7th is to be an important date
here. The reason is that the “Junior-
Senior Prom” will be held at that time,
and men will be allowed in our midst.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE BAND

Tourna-

° Love Secret.
Mary had a little calf,
She was ashamed to show it.
And Mary hoped with alt her might
Her beau would never know it.

She always took the greatest care
To keep it under cover.

But a mouse ran in the room,

Now Mary’s lost her lover.

(Continued from Page 1)
movies had it not been for the timely
intervention of a “cop” on Pack Square.
Thomas Meighan was there filming a
feature picture, and it seems that “Wil-
lie P.” was anxious to be included as a
member of the cast.

About 6 o'clock each one presented
himself at the college and was escorted
to the dining room. The boys say this
was some treat, to eat a meal with so
many of the fair sex around.

Tt seems that K. B. McCutcheon fram-
ed up with one of the young ladies, for
when train time came around the next
morning, K. B. discovered that his in-
strument hadn't been sent with the
others, A lively chase with old Father
Time ensued, in which “K. B.” was suc-
cessful.

Arriving in Lincointon Saturday aft-
ernoon, the boys were met by automo-
biles and taken to the different homes
for supper. This last performance was
by far the best of the three, being given
in the High Schoot Auditorium.

After enjoying a social hour with the
young ladies of the town, the organiza-
tion left in autos bound for Davidson,
arriving here at 11:59 p. m. Saturday
night.

Those so fortunate as to'make the
trip were: Dupuy, Nesbitt, Beck, Mc-
Cutchen, Hill, Walker, Booth, Love,
Johnson, Sheffer, Hollingsworth, De-

Lorme, White, Buchanan, and Director
Freeman,

The Good Old Days.

“There ‘are no more enterprising
young men. Why, I remember when it
was a common thing for a young man to
Start out as a clerk, and in a few years
own the business.”

“Yes, but cash registers have been in-
vented since.”

Late to bed and early to rise,
That’s the way with these college guys.

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR
CONVENTION

(Continued from page 1)
tionals, special music, address by Rev.
Daniel Iverson, of Charlotte. Probably
a stereopticon.

Sunday, 2 to s—Song service, devo-
tionals, one-minute reports of best work
done by the societies, address by South-
ern States Secretary C. F. Evans, con-
ference on methods by Mr. Evans and
Field Secretary Wilson.

Sunday, 6:45—Model Christian En-
deavor prayer meeting.

7:30 to 9:15—Song service, devotionals,
address, closing consecration service.

Se

Among the visitors at the ball game
Saturday afternoon wére, Mr. and Mrs.
A. M. McDonald, Mrs. J. C McDonald,
and Miss Kathryn McDonald, of Char-
lotte; guests of S. H. McDonald, '24.
