Y 2G oo. i. *
2 4 dh ee THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 1922. f*
ro 2 A. E. F. CLUB DISC ay
LITERARY NEW Pe ar, THLETIC NE
IT NE S Dr. and Mrs, ilson M ‘Connell en- A N WS
_J| tertained theA’ E. F. Cigt' at their home
ERATE ROBBY on TA RGH s a ‘a Dew—“The Federation of the Jalna pte MR. J. LEE SLOAN RECEIVES Brown, B. C. : 83
6 orld.” . .
* ——_ *| M. B. Foil—“Yesterday, Today, and ere present. —A short LETTER FROM COACH BILL ane 2 ‘s P, -.-------------------.- G
* “Resolved: That the ratification. of *| Tomorrow.” /) ting was held, at the con- Mr. J. Lee Sloan, of Davidson, has re- DS te
* amendments to the Federal Constitu- * W. G. Guille—“Public Opinion.” va clusion which the ex-A. E. F. men ceived the following letter from Coach Total
* tion should be by direct vote of the *] J, C. Deaver—‘Educational ds -of |Speng’a most enjoyable social hour AGE Lh) GI Seb CONCH be AER ae Com z A: a
* people; a majority of two-thirds be- */the United Statés.” he purpose of the meeting was stated reply to a telegram of congratulations on Ce idwell, 7 5
* ing necessary to ratify.” *| RA. Gordon—“Preach 3.” A v L. A. Taylor, president of the club, in|the university's victory in Dixie Basket- Gud ’ - . &
* Query for March 30. *! Pp. B. Guthrey—“A ™ |which he explained that it was generally | ball: Be ee . 86
*. “Resolved: That the closed shop in *| J, E. Haney—“M felt by friends of the college that steps|Dear Mr. Sloan: Hua » W. ©, ----- 81
* industry it justifiable.” *|- E. M. Hines should be taken to erect a memorial to| Your wire of March 2d to myself and} “2 40S0n, W. H. 76
WR ORL St te eee) St Na tionsie the men who represented Davidson in|my team was awaiting me here on my Calhoun, L E. 74
=D. (ofv1D%, the World War. He then gave as a|return from Atlanta. I want to thank Total cama
“MEN. DELIVER ucatioy, suggestion for the contemplated memo-| you for thinking of us, and assure you = ------406

NON-SOCIET
» JUNIOR ATORICAL GEMS
v6 4 ae {
The speeches of the members o

Janior .class not belonging to an the
literary societies - were in
Shearer Hall on the evenjge@s h
13th and 15th.; These g@eeches Shawed

careful preparatio: and were” well
spoken.
Bob Gordo

‘

= s.

immigration and brought forth the

ri astonishing fact that one million foreign-
ers immigrate to the United States each

pat

ie al spoke upon the problems
(eri

year.
J. E. Haney, in a speech entitled
“Memories,” stated that memories of

childhood are the memories that will
afford the greatest comfort in old age.
H. S. McCallum told how the world: is
wildly pursuing pleasure but that real
pleasure can never be attained until the
fellowship of Christ is sought for.

J. B. McCallum outlined the character-
istics and traits which constitute a true
citizenship. Since the fate of the coming
generation rests upon the present one,
it therefore behooves each man to set an
example of a true citizen for the on-
comers to follow.

N. R. Currie showed how large a part
the Federal Reserve Bank is playing in
the rising prosperity of the United
States.

R. P. Alexander pote upon the im-
portance of the merchant marine to the
different nations of the world. It is of
particular importance to the “United
States due to the great increase in the
shipping business of this country.

R. L. Black set forth the protection
which: the American Cotton Association
affords to the farmers and of the many
losses which it averts. The aims of this
association and the reforms which it is
endeavoring -to accomplish were clearly
stated.

In a speech on aricraft, R. E. Blue out-
lined the construction of an airplane and
then showed what a great asset it is to
the commerce of today.

J. M. Bostick gave a summary of the
life of Benedict Arnold and then pro-
ceeded to compare the politician of to-
day to this traitor.

W. E. Crane made an earnest plea for
the substitution of new and scientific
methods of education in the school sys-
tem in place of the slip-shod methods
which are now largely in vogue.

S. M. Davis outlined the remarkable
career and attainments of Robert E. Lee
and described the qualities and char-
acteristics of this great man which have
caused him to hold such a warm place in
the hearts of the Southern people.

J. C. Deaver describes the inadequacy
and the Mack of unity of the present
school systems of America. The pas-
sage of the Smith-Towner bill for na-
tional control of schools was offered as
a solution to the difficulty.

M. B. Foil, in one of the best speeches
of the evening, traced the rise of Amer-
ica from the original 13 colonies to its
present position as a world-power.

The list of speakers and subjects were
as follows: .

R. P. Alexander — “The

Merchant
Marine.”
James Allen—“The Passing of the
Grey.”

R. L. Black—“The American Cotton
Association.”

R. E. Blue—“Aircraft.”

J. M. Bostick—“A Modern Arnold.”

W. E. Crane—“To Guess and to Know.”

S. M. Davis—“Robert E. Lee.”,  <

ot Seboes". Educational In-
ence of Sgefology.”

eu J. e—Prohibition.”

McCatlum—"The Pursuit of
Seger :
in B- McGallum—“Citizenship.”
.. A. MeCrary—“The Work of the

Master Builder.”

J. McCrummen—“German Influence in
American Higher Education.” -

N. R. Currie—‘The Way to Prosperity.”

The final round of Junior speeches for
non-society men was held in Shearer
Hall on the evening of Wednesday,
March 15th. The best speeches of the
occasion were those of Tuller, Craw-
ford, Cooper, Northrop, Reid, and Mc-
Rainey.

C. D. Tuller, speaking on “Teamwork,”
showed in a clear and comprehensive
manner the importance of co-operation
in America today.

Pat Crawford in a beautiful and ap-
pealing manner portrayed “The Wound-
ed Soldier” far away from home and
country.

W. J. Cooper, with an easy and in-
timate manner spoke of “A Singular
Young Man,” dealing with the works of
the English poet, Alfred Noyes.

H. F. Northrop, in a well written and
delivered speech told of “The Romance
of Music” and its valuable effect in re-
lieving the monotonyof daily life.

R. M. Reid, speaking on “A College
Diploma” showed the value of a college
course to the everyday American.

J. H. McRainey, in an earnest and in-
teresting manner described “Chem-
istry’s Contribution to Medicine,” bring-
ing out some new phases of this im-
portant subject.

The list of speakers with their sub-
jects was as follows:

C. D Tuller—Teamwork,

J. S. Whiteside—Monopolies.

E. T. Woolfork—Human Engineering.

G. D. Fleming—Why Go to College?

W. S. Buchanan—Vitimines.

H. H. Wyman—Colloids.

C. R. Crawford—The Wounded Sol-
dier,

J. M. Barr—Balances.

E. T, Gentry—Alexander Hamilton.

H. H. Massey—Cost of War.

J. B. Sloan—Romance of Chemistry.

S. H. Bradley—The Purpose of the
College.

W. J. Cooper—A Singular Young Man.

G. M. McCutcheon—Turning Points of
History.

E. A. Nash—Development of Educa-
tion.

H. F. Northrop—The Romance
Music.

R. M. Reid—A College Diploma.

). T. Spillman—A College Bred Man.

J. H. McRainey—Chemistry’s Contri-
bution t6 Medicine.

R. F. Sydenstricker—Borrowers and
Lenders.

C. F, Teague—Democracy and Educa-
tion.

of

D.

FIVE NEW BOOKS ADDED TO
THE LIBRARY. COLLECTION

The library has added several new and
interesting volumes to its shelves in the
past week. These works are by the best
known and most popular authors of the
day. One of them especially deserves
mention, since it is about a man whom
all true Americans love and admire,
Woodrow Wilson.

The following list will give some idea
of the diversity of the new works:

“Woodrow Wilson, As I Know Him,”
by Joseph Tumulty.

“The Listener’s Guide to Music,” by
Percy A. Scholes.

“To the Last Man,” by Zane Grey.

“Through the Shadows,” by O’Henry.

“Helen of the Old House,” by Harold
Rell ‘Wright.

= -

rial, a tower which would include a
clock, and a complete set of chimes.

At the conclusion of Taylor’s talk, a
round-table discussion was‘held, and it
was the general opinion of all present
that this sort of memorial would be the
most impressive, beneficial and appre-
ciated that could be erected.

The question of cost, etc., was brought
up and at the suggestion of Dr. Lingle a
committee composed of Drs. Richards
and MacConnell, and Méssrs. Taylor and
Allison was appointed to secure the
necessary information and report back
to the club at a meeting to be called in
the near future.

The purpose for which the meeting
had been called having been disposed of,
the men turned to discussing old times
and the happenings of the A. E. F. dur-
ing which Mrs. MacConnell, assisted by
Mrs. Hurd served very palatable re-
freshments consisting of a salad CLE LG
and sandwiches and coffee.

D

PANDEINIC DEFEATS METRO-
PHILIAN IN DEBATE ‘TRIALS

The debate between the Pandeinic and
Metrophilian Literary Societies took
place in the Philanthropic Society hall at
7:30 last Monday evening, March 2oth.
The meeting was opened with prayer by
Buck Currie and was presided over by
J. P. Price.
<The question was: “Resolved, That the
Federal Government should own and
operate the coal mines of the United
States, constitutionality waived. The
affirmative side of the question was sup-
ported by W. Z. Bradford, J. M. Carr,
end D. B. Wharton, representing the
Metrophilian Society. The negative was
supported by W. M. Cox, H. B. Price,
and D. B. Walthall, members of the
Pandeinic Society.

The debate was highly interesting and
matty~ interesting points were brought
out on both sides. The speeches were
well delivered and showed much careful
preparation and much research by all
the participants.

The decision of the judges was four to
one in favor of the negative. Bradford
received the Fresh-Soph debater’s medal
for the Metrophilian Society. The medal
for the Pandeinic Society “will be de-
cided in the finals to come off later.

D.
METROPHILIANS DEBATE ON
EMERALD ISLE PROBLEM

On the eve of St. Patrick’s Day the
Metrophilians held a very interesting
program. The spirit of old Ireland was
present, mingled with the fine irony of
Scotland, and the discussion was full of
pep.

Gracy opened the argument for the
affirmative, on the query, Resolved: That
the present relations existing between
England and Ireland are better than
complete independence for Ireland.

Those upholding the negative, arguing
for the absolute freedom of Ireland
were: Furches, Trawick, and Douglas.
The opposition, which claimed that the
Irish were better off as they are now,
with relation to England, was composed
of Gracy, Burney, and Lacy. It was only

for the negative was well prepared and
gave them a close run for the decision.

After the program the meeting was
opened for business and a medal and a
diploma were selected. Society colors
were also chosen. The idea of a con-
quering battleship on the storm-tossed
deep blue, was represented in the color
scheme. The flower is to be blue and
the color, battleship grey.

by a narrow margin that the latter won,|

of our appreciation of your congratula-
tions.

We had a great trip to Atlanta, and
the team really played some good bas-
ketball. The people there did every-
thing they could to make all of the dif-
ferent teams enjoy their stay in Atlanta.
Everyone was very cordial to us, and we
are all looking forward to returning
there next season for the tournament. I
hope that the Davidson team will also
go to Atlanta next season, and from
what I can hear of their team this year,
they would have made a splendid show-
ing had they entered the tournament this
season. I am sorry that Carolina and
Davidson were unable to get together on
a game this year. It would have proved
very interesting, and the outcome would
have been doubtful, as I have heard that
Davidson had a wonderful team.

Please remember me to all my friends
there, and with every good wish to you
and your wife, I am,

Very cordially yours,
Bill Fetzer.
D.
COMPANY “D” WINS R. 0. T. C.
INDOOR SHOOTING CONTEST

The finals of the Freshmen inter-com-
pany shooting match held recently, re-
sulted in a victory for Company D.

Company A followed a close second.
Company D established a team record of
414 points out of a possible 500; and W.
C. Ramsey, an individual record of 94 |
points out of a possible 100. The Con-
nolly Target was used. The shooting
by companies was as follows:
Company D:

RaimseyiewisG: oie ee 04

Patterson, ING Gi oe ee eee ee eee 84

DR. J. M. MCCONNELL HAS |
PLACES FOR TEACHING WORK

Many of the Seniors will be interested
to know that there will be an opportu-
nity for numerous positions next year
as teachers, at a reasonably good
salary. Dr. J. M. McConnell, who has
this work in charge, says that within the
next sixty days he expects to have found
places for all who wish to teach next
year.

Doctor McConnell, as chairman of the!
committee for that purpose, handles the|
requests for teachers and tries to fit the’
man to the place. Most of these re-
quests come from privately-owned boys’
schools, such as McCallie, Woodbury,
Bingham, etc. These schools are nat-
urally anxious to secure men teachers
and especially men who can help in the
special activities such as coaching ath-
letic teams, training debaters or helping
glee clubs and dramatics. Here is a good
opportunity for nearly every Senior. If
he is undecided as to his future work,
a year of school teaching will give him
time in which to look around a little. If
he intends to go further in his studies
and lacks money, he can probably make
as much or more in this way than in any
other for his first year. Any Davidson
alumnus who would like to see a David-
son man in a school in which he is in-
terested should get in touch with Dr.
McConnell.

Five inter-collegiate shooting matches
have been arranged for April, as fol-
lows:

Ga. Tech, April 1st.

Miss. A. and M., April 15th.

Univ. of Fla., April roth.

Univ. of Ga., April 26th.

N. C. State, April 29th,

There is to be another: match arranged
for Freshmen only. These matches are
to be fired within 48 hours of dates listed,
by a team of ten men, each of which will
fire five shots at the Connolly target,
from each position. Any man in the R.
O. T. C. is eligible for these matches.

T).

DAVIDSON DOWNS ALL-STARS

(Continued from page 1)
Roushee and sending Brown to third.
Crawford then worked the squeeze play
to perfection, laying down a nifty bunt,
and Brown crossed the welcome mat.

In the seventh Covington marked
White for a free ticket to first, reached
second on a passed ball and scored when
Ranson dropped Neel’s lofter. Erwin
completed the circuit in the next stanza
on two errors and a pilfered cushion.
McLeod went into the game as a pinch-
h‘tter in the final frame and pumped a
haymaker to center that Caldwell mis-
judged and McLeod dusted his way
around to the third peg. He checked in
a moment later when Brown lashed out
a double to right.

Crawford handled 16 chances in the
field without a bobble and Erwin and

Brown did good work in the outer gar-

| dens.
| Box score:

Davidson: ab r hpoa e
Brownie ecco ose os. 2 @. 1. 1-252 06
Ne elieab ies esos 5.0) 2) 1 4) 4
Crawford, 1b I 114 2 0
McMillian, c 0-0 321
Prichett, ss @ @ % A i
BEWiNOtecpucupaccaccs a2 I I 4-0 0
Freeman, If ~---------_- tv) 2 0 Oo
Covington, 3b 10 oNr 1
Erwin, M., 3b 0000!
Sorrels; pNesesscocsa-se8 000010
Boushee, p Ssna-=2------ 2 I 1 0 1,0
McPherson, p ---------- I 0,0 000
SMcleodieri 222 2 coe 100000
Motal sees eres ere ee 33 6 62715 6.

*Batted for Covington in the eighth.

All-Stars: ab r hpoa e
Ranson; itssecccccccccsee ch ve ok © i
Itb yess osteo e secu oes A471 073 1 0
Stacks, 3b o1r1%1r2o0
Stough, rf o1t100
Pernett, 1b I o1r 1 0
Hagan, 2b O: Tt 143-1
Larnhardt, c'-.....---.. 6 i 2 620
Caldwell, cf 2-------.2_ 4°+0 2 1 0 1
Currie, p 01020
White, p 00000

Totals 492411 2

Score by innings:

Davidson -~<-------------- OOI 202 11x—6
AW SStars (ossceo 5 hse 000 210 100—4

Summary, — Two-base hits: Ranson,

Brown, Boushee;  three-base hits:

Stcugh, Bardhardt; stolen bases: Erwin,
Irby (3); hit by pitched ball—by Currie:
Sorrells; struck gut: by Currie 2; by
White 4; by Baushee 3; bases on balls,
off Currie 3; off White 1; off Sorrels 1;
off Boushee 1; off McPherson 2.

& Ditson goods.

18 B. Trade St. .

EQUIPMENT FOR EVERY SPORT

SPORTING GOODS

Basketball, Tennis, Baseball goods. We sell the Spalding,
We have the exclusive agency for.A G. Spalding &-Bros.

RACKETS RESTRUNG BY AN EXPERT

Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.

,A. L, Foul, Mgr.

Reach and Wright

Phone 902

