THE

DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 28,

1922

The DAVIDSONIAN

OPEN FORUM

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.
FOUNDED BY. CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill’

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication mmst be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
Articles ed.

p. m. Monday. received from an unknown source will not be publish
PO EPIR EH -in- 4 H. H. SMITH..... beeboeees .. Forum itor
i 5. D, BLKINE. vee First idtigey cist R. CG. AIKEN... 2... Campus Eater
Me HESTON Sec foe Tita, GDEN... Y. M. itor
R. R. JONES.. itor W. T. ELLIOTT Social Editor
ny H. MA’ E yids ih M. MORRIS.. Hata tay altos
. or .
bak Vidas or W. M. TEC cordeccroes Exchange Editor
ie" i a ae CLUB
BROWN, W._P., Pre: A MOFFETT, A,_N.
Suir R. H., Vice-Pres. ey ae G MOORE, W. H.
BROWN, Cc Vv. Sec-Treas. W. MOSS, H. M.
ALLISON, 0. J. rae We PRICE, Ii, B.
BUTZER k. rae AINE, C. M. TULLER, C.D.
EARNS MP. R, D. D. WALTHALTL, D._B.
PLL. ED. ze GW H, WILDMAN, ALG
FEWELL, Ny ae M. ; ea
Special Reporters for this Iseue Are:
re DEPARTMENT
AVIS, Ge Oe apuuguoenpo lA). Manager i
YESS ALLEN, J. H. DAVIS, G. E. WEEKS, W. G. GUILLE........ Asst. Business Managers
CIRCULATION lan ytd a tnd ;
WATT MCCAIN...... . Circulation Manager C, FAIN..........Asst. Circulation Mgr.
Assistants in Circulation Departme nt
R. B. LILES — EK. THROWER as OOMAW J. A. THOMPSON

Patronize ¢ our Advertisers, for they make the paper POMnp Ie

Elon has been defeated, fellows, and now we want to do the same and
more to P. C. Let’s all be ready to give the team a royal welcome when they
“bring back the bacon” from this South Carolina rival of ours.

D.

The moving picture department of the “Y” is certainly an efficient one.
Both last year and this we have been getting the very latest and best attrac-
tions. When we think of what price theaters over the country charge for
these, we realize that we are seeing them at a much lower rate than we could
elsewhere. The management can’t be praised too much.

: D.

ON TO CHARLOTTE!

LWAYS have the students of Davidson desired to have the favor and
support of the city of Charlotte, our nearest neighbor. We feel that the
backing of this city is one of our biggest assets, and as a body have been most
willing to do our part toward securing it. There has, of course, always existed
a kindred feeling between alumni there and Davidson, but at times we did feel
that, in some ways at least, the whole city was not behind us. ‘Vhe growing
enthusiasm that has been manifested for the college has been a source of pride
and pleasure, and now the climax it has reached in the trip to Charlotte that
we are to have, is certainly appreciated by every student.
We have never had a trip like this offered us before, fellows, and its going
to be quite an occasion for all 500 students to see the city of Charlotte in a
body. ‘Then, too, we all will enjoy the luncheon that the Chamber of Com-
merce is giving, and particularly the chance to see the Made-in-Carolinas Ix-
position. In fact, its.a privilege and pleasure that none can afford to miss, so
everyone get ready for Monday and the trip.
D

AN ATTRACTIVE FEATURE.

Cae moving into the two new dormitories, East and West, we have ‘cer-
tainly all been impressed with their up-to-date plan, their many con-
veniences and their fine appearance and newness, things never experienced by
any of us here before. The way in which the walls in every room look is quite
novel for Davidson and is beyond doubt much more desirable than any number
of pennants could make them were they full of tack and nail holes. Since both
conditions are not possible, it does seem that it would be much better to keep
‘them as they now look rather than get our new walls into’ the fix of those in
Bumple, Watts and Georgia.

In addition to the many other improvements these dormitories have, such
as good, secure locks on the closets as well as on the hall doors, stairways at
both the front and back which seem practically a necessity after they are
gotten, and fire-proof construction. Fast and West have another feature which
is newer to us probably than any of the others. This is the lounging room that
each dormitory has on the first floor. These rooms are being fitted up in the
best manner with excellent furniture, well-finished floors and attractive sur-
roundings and good taste on every side.

Undoubtedly, these rooms will-be most pleasant and convenient for those
having spare time during the day in which to enjoy them. The reading room
at the “Y” has always been used, and has been exceedingly valuable to us all
in the: capacity in which these new rooms will serve, but the distance to the
gym, has been a disadvantage to it that these will not suffer. In addition, there
is another advantageous purpose which these rooms could be made to serve.
Almost every night there are some men who do not feel like studying or
't think they have a very full day’s work before them, so want to drop
ind and visit their friends. Of course, the “bull-sessions” resulting inter-
“to a marked extent with the work of all participating. Therefore if the
rs of these could use the.lounging rooms, ard do their talking with
ho were not inclined to study for the time being either, rather than

whose really want to, the benefit resulting would itself almost justify

The Davidson spirit is something that we
have heard discussed ever since we first
heard of Davidson. Some of us have been
worried because we haven't seen it walking
around the campus. It is so real, so much a
part of the college that we think of it as
almost human. The spirit of Davidson is
handed down from generation to generation
of college students. Whether its light be
bright or dim rests in the hands of the
present student body.

We have often been asked just what the
Davidson spirit is. The following poem
seems to express very clearly the true mean-
ing of our famous spirit:

It’s doing your job the best you can

And being just to your fellow-man;

It’s figuring how and learning why,

And looking forward and thinking high,

And dreaming a little and doing mitich $

It’s keeping always in closest touch ®

With what is finest in work-and-deed

It’s being thorough yet making airy

It’s daring blithely the field of chance

While making labor a brave romance;

It’s going onward despite defeat

And fighting staunchly, but keeping sweet;

It’s being clean and playing fair;

It’s laughing lightly at Dame Despair;

It’s looking up at the stars above,

And drinking deeply of life and love;

It's struggling on with the will to win,

But taking loss with a cheerful grin;

It’s sharing sorrow and work and mirth

And making better the good old earth;

It’s serving striving through strain and
stress,

that’s success,

—Copied.

eC Cig Pye gles SE

It's doing your noblest

Forget Her

(Note: ‘The following poem was. first
published in a copy of the Davidson Col-
lege Magazine of 1912. We reprint it here
for the benefit of some of our readers who
may“be suffering from the aftereffects of
a joyous summer.)

When your head takes a whirl

Over some certain girl,

And you think She’s the classiest ever;
Don't fill up with joy—

Think it over my boy—

Take a good hearty laugh and—

-|that you're accustomed to sealegs,

‘| Since 1 took a good laugh and—

Forget.Her.

If you hand Her “the dope,”

And She throws you “the rope,”

And you “bite” and consider Her clever—
Then don't hesitate—

You might wait too late—

Take a good hearty laugh and— .
Forget Ter,

My Boy, be a man,

‘Take a sensible stand.

And when She thinks that She “has you
going,”

Just let Her discover

That you really don’t love Her,

Take a good hearty laugh and—

C Forget Her.

Her obstinate nature
Is Her principal feature,
But it seems that She'll never know better,
Till you let Her know
That She's not “the Whole show,”
Take a good hearty laugh and—
Forget Her.

Tt was easy as sin

For me to jump in,

When She threw Her bait out on the river—
And [| swallowed the bite,

But its all off tonight,

Forgot Her.
S. H. Mullen,

eccsteminad p Weeiirmaniecr

16,

Twis twilight and dark, up near Manitou
Park, a maiden sat combing her bright
golden hair, when heated with roaming, all
panting and foaming, there came up and
squeezed her, a big grizzly bear. It did not
affright her; the bear did not bite her, she
lay back and murmured: “Oh, still tighter
dear.” This broke up old bruin, he let off
his wooing, sneaked back to the mountains
and hid a whole year.

D.

A man never realizes the superiority of
woman so much as when he is sewing on a
button without a thimble, pushing the needle
against the wall to get it half way through
and pulling it through the other half by
hanging on to it with the teeth.

D.

A woman was kicked on the chin by a
mule, causing her to bite off the end of her
tongue, and her hushand. several times since,

While on my lap I heard her sigh;

She snuggled closer yet to me,

Then lifting up her dresses high,

Showed me her knee, and said, “Look. See!”

I kissed her on her pretty ear,

And ‘pinched her on her dimpled knee,
While she, without the slightest fear,
Showed me her knee, and said, “Look. See!”

Upon my chest she leaned her head,
She plainly sought my sympathy,
So when I said, “you go to bed,”
She showed her knee and said, “Took. See!”
/
And then upon her knee I saw
A little bruise fast turning blue,
I sympathized and hugged her for
My little daughter's only two.
—Atlanta Constitution.

(The Technician.)

On November 4 the “Wolfpack” meets
the “Wildcats” of Davidson, in Raleigh.
Davidson seems to have a way of upsetting
the dope. Starting out last season with a
defeat by Wake Forest, the first in the his-
tory of their football relations, she ended up
by holding both State and Carolina to no de-
cision tie games. Practically the entire team
returns and Coach Grey should turn out the
usual scrappy and aggressive team, State
will win this game, due to a heavier team
and a more experienced backfield,

The bashful midshipman was on leave, and
was having a hard time making conversation
with the fair young thing at the dance.

“T suppose you've been in the navy so long
” she ob-
served in desperation.

“T-I-1 wasn’t looking at them,” he pro-
tested, blushing hotly.—Selected.

Don't worry when you stumble—remem-
ber, a worm is about the only thing that
can't fall down.

To speak wisely may not always be easy,

. . . .
but not to speak ill requires only silence.

A pretty girl jumps to the conclusion that
every man she meets wants to kiss her. And
the wonder of it is that she is right.

[t's all right for a man to love all mankind,
but if he gets to loving all womankind, he
is apt to end up*in jail.

DEFINITION OF
KISS.

A FLAPPER’S A
Seems Like

A moonlight trip sailing on a banana down
a stream of lemonade to an ice cream parlor.

Tastes Like

Double distilled essence of honey spread
thick on a piece of gingerbread,

Feels Like

A convey of quails flying out of each ear,
and ending up in a sensation like a flock of
angels pouring molasses down one’s back.

And Is ;

When taken from the lips of the “sweet
young thing,” the sweetest thing in all the
world.—Selected.

Better are two left hand gloves, than a
man in the moonlight with the wrong woman ;
and a maiden alone by the seashore, as a hat

without a hat-pin, she  breedeth wild
thoughts.—Va. Tech,
HOW THEY ARE KISSED,

The Charleston girl bows her stately head
And fixes her stylish lips,

In a firm hard way—and lets 'em go,
And sips, and sips, and sips.

The Columbia girl has a way of her own,
dna clinging, soulful way,

She takes a kiss that’s just as big
As a wagon load of hay.

The Greenville girl gets a grip on herself
And carefully takes off her hat,

Then grabs the man in a frenzied way
Like a terrior shaking a rat.

The Savannah girl just arches her eye,
So cool—so cold—so glum,

She sticks out her lips—like an open book
And keeps on chewing gum.

But the Beaufort girl never says a word,
She’s too gentle—timid and tame,
But she grabs a young man by the back of
his neck,
And gets there just ithe same.

refused the offer of $1,000 for the mule.

—Beaufort Gazette.

.| would break her up at that rate as-her

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO

The nucleus of the football team will be
four “D” men: H. M. Grey, A. C. Burns,
G. M. King and J. A. Shaw; and also several
“D. C.” men: Flowers, Spann, Crouch and
McAlister.

Quoted clipping from The Atlanta Consti-
tution: ;

“Those Davidson Wildcats will be here
October 13. Every season they throw a
scare into the Jackets (Ga. Tech.) by the
splendid article of ball they put up.” We ex-
pect to do a little of that scaring again this
year.

Result, Ga. Tech, 32; D. C., 10. Most
points scored on Tech during the entire sca-
son.

Among the fascinating new war books in
the library is “Over the Top” by Arthur Guy
Empey

Friends of Dr 'T ‘W Lingle will be glad to
hear of his safe arrival in France

Elections resulted in: H. M. Grey, -presi-
dent of Athletic Association and J. W.
McAlister, vice president. I. W. Hengeveld,
president of ball club; H. T. Lilly, editor of
Quips and Cranks.

“We're in this war, we’re in,
Don’t lose your nerve, stick out your chin.
Brace up and wear a winner’s grin;
We'll hoist ‘Old Glory’ in Berlin.”
D.

TOWN NEWS

The Misses ShewWmaker spent the week-
end in Asheville.

Mrs. Hearn has returned from a visit to
her father, Colonel Jadwyn, who is now sta-
tioned at Charleston, S.C.

Doctor Martin spoke last ‘Thursday eve-
ning before the Men’s Club of the First
Presbyterian Church. in Charlotte on the
“Financial Value of an Education,”

Mrs. Fraser Hood has returned from Ral-
eigh, where she went to place her daughter,
Miss Kalista, in St. Mary’s School,

Miss Sarah Lingle leaves this week for
Smith College, where she is a Senior.

Mrs. Morrell, mother of 1. Morrell, ’26,
has taken rooms at the home of Dr, and Mrs.
J. W. McConnell for the winter.

Mr. W. A. Presson, of Char-
lotte, have moved to Davidson and are liv-
ing with Dr. and Mrs. Jeton. Mr. Presson
is to have charge of the Ford agency.

and Mrs.

H. M. Askew, of the class of 1900,

Davidson last week. Mr, Askew,
whose home is in Decatur, Ga., is a high of-
ficial in the Southern Bell ‘Telephone Com-
pany.

Mr.
Was in

The Misses Bailey, of Rock Hill, S. C.,
were the week-end guests of Miss Mar-
guerite Adams.

The Davidson High School is getting out
a creditable football team. Dick Grey is
captain and Joe McConnell is manager. G.
B. Sorrells, of the varsity, is coach,

Miss Marguerite Adams entertained a few
friends at a picnic supper after the game
Saturday evening in honor of her guests, the
Misses Bailey.

Sone

Miss Peggy Baumn, of Hoboken, N. J., is
visiting her friend, Miss Mary Black. On
Tuesday evening Miss Black entertained a
few friends in honor of her guest.

The Book ‘Lover's Club met with the new
president, Miss Douglas. Mrs. Erwin read
a very interesting paper on “Egyptian Art.”

T).

DD

Miss Brown, of Atlanta, sister of Mrs.
Erwin’s, spent the weck-end in Davidson, en
route to the Assembly’s Training School at
Richmond, Va.

Mrs. Aiken and son, Hugh, spent the
week-end on the hill.

D.

Mr. R. W. McKay and Mr, Shephard
Nash, former Davidson men, paid a short
visit to the hill last Friday.

D.

DvD

DEDICATED TO REGEN.

-\ woman went into a newspaper office and
wished to advertise for her husband who had
disappeared. ‘When told that they charged
two dollars an inch she went out, saying it
hus;

band was over six feet tall.

>
