THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 23, 1922

®

HERE AND THERE

Dr. William Mack, 1883, whose home is at
272 Flatbush avenue extension, Brooklyn,
New York, is one of the most noted law
writers of the day. Under his editorship the
Encyclopedia of Law and Procedure, com-
prising around 50 large volumes, has Unt
prepared.

Dr. James C. Peden, 1910, is located at 303
Palace building, Tulsa, Oklahoma.

Paul P. Brown, 1903, is assistant cashier
of the American National Bank of Asheville,
ING. CF

Leopold Chambliss, 1918, is doing excel-
lent work in the Publicity Department of
the Guaranty Trust Company of New York
City.

James William Thomson, 1911, is in the
life insurance business in Charlotte, N. C
o
Rey. Robert King, 1906, is pastor of the

First Presbyterian Church at Kingsport,
Tenn.
5. D. Brice, ex-1921, is assistant cashier

of the Marion Junction (Alabama) State
Bank,

John W. George, 1886, attorney at law, is
located at Dallas, Texas, 410 Slaughter
building.

Rev. T. C. Bales, 1910, is pastor of the
First. Presbyterian Church at Portsmouth,
Va.

W. S. Royster, 1899, is the vice-president
sof the Royster Guano Company at Norfolk,
Va.

Thomas S. Blunkett, 1899, is a banker and
rice planter (Pinehome Farm) at Elton, La.

Frank H. Baker, 1917, is bacteriologist,

~ chemical pathologist and rontgenologist at

Clifton Forge, Va.

Dr. A. Lr Blanding, 1878, is located at
Fountain Inn, es

Rev. R. T. Gillespie, D. D., 1904, is pastor
of the First Presbyterian Church of Louis-
ville, Ky.

Dr. W. E. von Glahn, ’11, is patheologist
at the Presbyterian Hospital, New York
City, and professor in Bellevue Medical Col-
lege.

E. B. Wright, 19, is cashier of the-Ameri-
can Express Company with offices in Paris.

Steve Simmons, ’11, is major in the United
States Army and directing head of the
American Hospital in Honolulu.

Lieutenant A. M. Siler, 12, who has been
with the Army of Occupation in Germany,
has recently been situated at Governor’s Is-
land, New York. But Mr. Siler is now re-
signing his commission and is giving up army
life. to begin a successful business career.

Mr. W. C. Rouk, ’16, is pastor of the
Presbyterian Church at Ellebe, N.C. ~-

Lacy McAllister, '20, and John Schenck,
22, were referee and umpire of the Win-
ston-Salem and Charlotte High School game
in Winston-Salem Saturday.

We Were Glad td See You at the

ie Game, Mr. Alumnus

~The Davidson-Carolina game in Charlotte
last Saturday, furnished a setting in which
old acquai were renewed and present
ones were perpetuated. Gathering from far
would see the Red and Black triumph once
again over the eastern horde, but sure of the
fact that they would see a team fighting and
minute for the old col-

‘| division, with which organization he

magnet, which steadily draws an alumnus
back to the scene of combat, whether once
before he, himself, had torn up the turf
through a field of blue and white warriors,
or cheered another on to a victory. But,
nevertheless, we were glad to sce such a
large number in the stands and our only re-
gret is that we could not mention every- one
present. And rather than attempt such an
endless, task, we wish to thank them each and
all for displaying so much interest in their
Alma Mater who is proud of them all, for
their accomplishments in life.

D.

FORMER DAVIDSON MAN
HEADS FLORIDA VETS

Captain Henry F. Martin, of the class of
"15, was a veteran of the World War, having
a splendid war record and still bearing war
wounds, He is planning to make a canvass
of all Florida claimants with the aid of a
medical officer so that examinations may be
given all the disabled men whose claims war-
rant the attention of the office. Captain
Martin is making his headquarters in Jack-
sonville, Fla., where a short time ago he
met all of his employes and discussed the
affairs of the sub-district with department
heads and went over the work of the office
carefully with the former sub-district mana-
ger. Captain Martin has returned from At-
lanta, where he has had the benetit of a
period of observation at the district vet-
erans’ bureau office there.

Much of Captain Martin’s boyhood was
spent in Jacksonville, Fla., and as soon as he
finished college he returned to that town to
take a position in the law firm of Cockrell
and Cockretl, where he remained until
April, 1917, when he went away as a mem-
ber of the naval militia. In May, 1917, he
was transferred from this organization to
take an examination for provisional appoint-
ment as a second lieutenant, and was then as-
signed to Company G, 47th infantry, fourth
went

overseas in May, 1918.

He reached the front in July in the Marne-
Aisne-section, and engaged in the second bat-
tle of the Marne, and the offensives at San
Mihiel, and in the Argonne where he was
wounded October 12, 1918. During the sec-
ond battle of the Marne, the fourth division
outfits were the first to cross the Veslie
river after some of the hardest fighting on
the western front. His captain was seriously
injured and the two other lieutenants were
killed, Captain Martin assuming command of
the outfit. ie

His wound came while he was fighting wn
the Boisede Forest near Breilles in the Dun
sur Meuse offensive. A piece of shrapnel
severed the nerves in his right arm between
the elbow and the shoulder, causing a dis-
ability from which he has not recovered.
After several months in a base hospital he
secured permission to return to his regiment,
remaining with them until the regiment re-
turned to the United States in August, 1919,
and was demobilized shortly afterwards,
Captain Martin was cited in general orders
for personal bravery in action.

Captain Martin was retired as a second
lieutenant in 1921 for wounds, and in 1922
was made professor of military science and
tactics at the Pottsville High School at
Pottsville, Penn. He was relieved from
active duty to take the sub-district managers
appointment for the district of Florida, going
on the inactive list as a captain.

Immediately after his appointement had
been confirmed on August 11th by Colonel
Forbes, director of the United States Vet-
erans’ Bureau, Captain Martin barely es-
caped death near Washington while riding in
a car. which was thrown from the road and
wrecktd, Miss Viola James, of Pottsville,

_| Penn., his fiance, was also in the car, but re-

ceived slight cuts and bruises only. Three
days after his release from the hospital; Cap-
tain Mastin was married to Miss James at
Pottsville and after a short honeymoon they
went to Atlanta.

A better qualified man for this office could
not be imagined from the standpoint of either
the disabled veterans, claimants of the board,
or the bureau itself. Captain Martin,
through his own disabilities, will be able to
sympathize and co-operate with the dis-

Seis ere sacmerrertcs eo

tlement in America.

abled men, and his experience as.an attorney,
together with his knowledge of military
paper work, should admirably fit him. to
represent the veterans’ bureau.

D.

HITHER AND THITHER DID
THE MINSTRELS JOURNEY

Now for a long time the lair of the Wild-
cat had been without amusement, and they
did’ long for something with which they
might quench their thirst for pleasure.

And lo, there did come into the den of
the Wildcats on the 14th day of the 11th
month of Enoch’s reign a band of minstrels
who did bear the name of J. C. O’Brien’s
Famous Georgia Minstrels. And great was
the rejoicing in the camp when the Cats did
learn of the approach of this Ethiopian
horde.

Yea, it was even about the hour of high
hoon when the Ethiopians did sally forth
with pride into the Main street of Davidson
to make known the merits of their tribe.

And there was with these minstrels a band
of men who did play upon brass instruments
and did make much jazz music. Lo, dia they
hold even the students of Davidson’ spell-
bound with their melody until he who did
play the trombone was wont to make a
mighty discord.

Now, these black diamonds were much like
unto the Freshinen for they did each wear a
coat and hat of green, and did strut their
stuff even as Fresh Doughton and Fresh Me-
Donald.

And as the band did march down Main
street, lo, one of the Wildcats did throw a
mock-Grange which did roll swiftly down the
street and did almost strike one of the dusky
jazzhounds senseless, since it did hit him
squarely upon the heel.

Now when they had assembled upon the
public square they did play and sing and
dance to the merriment of the throngs which
did gaze steadfastly upon them. Yea, even
Monroe was seized by. one of the company
and they did force him to dance, too.

Now as the hour for dinner approached,
the parade did form and ‘Prepare to march
hack to the tent opposite the depot. As they
came nigh unto the corner where is located
Miss Minnie’s sandwich shop lo, a barrage of
mock-oranges and brickbats did meet them.
Very wroth were the dark-skinned sons of
Ham, and they did go to their tents in hot
anger. :

And there did come nigh unto Davis,
which is called Sam, one of the Ethiopians
to secure from him a guarantee that his tribe
would not disturb the performance. But lo,
such would not be given by the noble leader
of the Wildcats.

Then great was the fear of the sons ot
Ham. Yea, they did tremble with fear lest
there would be no peace in the tent that
night. And when the sun did incline itself
very low in the west they did band them to-
gether upon their automobiles and go forth
unto the city of Concord.

And lo, those of the Wildcat lair who did
come from the State of Géorgia did clothe
themselves in sackcloth and did cover their
heads with ashes. Yea, it was set aside as a
day of mourning by Bill Baker and Bas-
comb Sorrells, fellow Georgians, because
the minstrel did leave without giving its per-
formance,

D:

TO HAVE AND TO HOLD
FEATURE LAST WEEK

A very good adaptation of Mary John-
ston’s “To Have and to Hold” was shown at
the movies Saturday night, featuring Betty
Compson and Bert Lytell.

Miss Compson played the role of a pam-
pered lady of James I’s court, during the
time of the struggle of the Jamestown set-
Disgusted with the
crimes about the court, she volunteers with a
number of English maidens to become wives
to the settlers in America. When the ship
arrives in America, she is repulsed by men in
the settlement and while fleeing from the ad-
vances of one man seeks protection from an-
other through their marriage.

Bert Lyttel, a virtuous captain in the set-

tlement, is the one whom she has appealed
to, and he takes her to his plantation home.
There, their association culinates in q deep
love for each’ other. But meanwhile the
king’s favorite, who was in love with te
runaway lady, has arrived in Jamestown and
demanded the young lady. The captain is put
in chains, but aided by his servant, he escapes
and together they rescue his wife from the
English vessel as well as kidnap the English
favorite. During the storm which they en-
counter, they are carried to a desert isle
where starvation faces them. Througn
strategy, the captain becomes leader of a
gang of pirates who have happened ashore
and later, during an encounter with an Eng-
lish, vessel, the party is rescued, and taken on
to England.

There at the king’s palace in London great
preparation is made for the grand wedding
of the king’s favorite to the captain's wife.
Through the help of another noble, the cap-
tain is permitted to fight for his bride with
the groom-to-be, as sport -hefore the king.
In the encounter, the king's favorite is
wounded so horribly that the king orders
him away, and the captain and his wife are
again reunited with the king’s blessing.

DAVIDSON I

|
|

NONE Too SMALL

: i

Agents Wanted

To Represent

Massachusetts Bonding and
Insurance Company

Ocean Accident and Guaranty
0 Company
W. E. PRICE
General Agent

CHARLOTTE; N.C.

Tf You Have Money,
Want It.

If You Need Money,
Have It:

We

We

Morris Plan Bank

WIUINSTONeSALEM, N. C.

S RUNNING A CAMPAIGN
THAT HAS AN AIM FOR PROGRESS

Ie Can Sell You Insurance for Rain
That Pays Each Claim With Promptness

McAlister Carson, Manager ('13)

INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO., Charlotte N. C.

« .° We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size

The Commercial National Bank
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

R. A. DUNN. President
» ANDERSON, Vice-President
W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President

CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC.,

What Are Your

Do you need investment

count ?

Winston-Salem
Asheville

A. T. SUMME Y, Cashier
I, W. STEWART, Assistant Cashier
easy Meril 1D TERS, Assistant Cashier

OVER $1,000,000.00

Banking Needs?

advi ice?

Are you interested to lez wn how we can serve you and
your family in matters of trust?

Would you like to opena savings or a checking ac-
Are you thinking of insurance?
The Wachovia, Its Staff, and Its Officers °

Are at Your Service.

The
WACHOVIA BANK and TRUST CO.

NORTH CAROLINA
Raleigh

Salisbury
High Point

LLY YY SY SC

NONE TOO LARGE

8 | Sm a a ee,

On the Square

Courteous Regards
For
the Needs of Every Customer
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

