THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 16,

1922

5

LITERARY NEWS

O, Mild West Wind, thou
breath of Autumn’s being,
Thou, from whose unseen pres-
ence the leaves dead

Are driven, like ghosts from an
enchanter fleeing . . .

O, thou, who chariotest to their
dark wintry bed the winged
(eds Se

O, Wind (if winter comes),
can Spring be far behind ?

—Shelley.

D-
PHILANTHROPICS ELECT
NEW TERM OFFICIALS

The program of the Phi Society last
Thursday night was taken up with an elec-
tion of officers for the next term.

Those elected were F, $, Johnston, presi-
dent; P. J. Story, vice-president; J. R. Gud-
ger, secretary; Hl, K. Russell, first critic; J.
L., McLean, second critic; H. M. Wells, first
supervisor; R. J. Smith, second supervisor ;
A. V. Gibson and M, P. Calhoun, marshals.

The retiring officers were, President, H.
K. Russell; vice-president, J. 1. Mclean;
first critic, J. W. Baldwin; second critic, F.
S. Johnson; secretary, E, D. Brown, Jr.; trst
supervisor, W. G, Houck; second supervisor,
J. M. Hendris.

The committee on heating arrangements,
has decided to purchase a stove for the hall,
provided the Metrophilian Society will buy a
similar one. The two will furnish
adequately all the heat needed for the hall.

D.

METROPHILIAN SOCIETY
ELECTS NEW OFFICERS

Omitting the regular program, the meet-
ing of the Metrophilian Literary Society on
November 7th was wholly given over to the
election of officers and other business.

For president, Bernhardt, Adams and Kim-
sey and R. P. were nominated. Bernhardt
was elected on the first ballot. For vice-
president there was nominated C. E. Hodgin,
R. L, Price and Matheson, Hodgin and Price
were tied in the third ballot but when Price
was elected marshal later in the meeting the
president of the society cast the deciding
vote for vice-president by declaring Hodgin
elected. N. W. Trawick was elected secre-
tary on the third ballot. over four of his
classmates, Guiton, Singletary, Gracey and J.
D. Brown. R. P. Kimsey was elected first
critic over Burney and McBryde, second
critic on the third ballot over Bradford and
Henderson. For first and second supervi-
sors were elected J, A. Thompson and H, D.
Brown respectively.

R. L. Price and Johnnie Adams were elect-
ed society marshals for commencement to
assist the chief marshal, Burney, who is this
year elected by the Metrophilian Society.

The society adopted the report of the
inter-society committee for inter-society rela-
tions after their reading by Bernhardt, the
society member on this committee.

One new member, Claude McIntosh, was
introduced by Henderson and taken into the
society, at this meeting.

‘It was also decided by the society to hold
its regular: meeting hereafter on. Tuesday
evening at 6:45 p. m.

D

HERE’S A CHANCE FOR
SOMEONE TO WIN $10

The literary department of the Davidson-
ian has recently received a letter from Mr.
Harry E. Harman, of Atlanta, in which he
makes an offer of $10 for the best criticism
of his new book ,“Collected Poems,” which is
in the process of publication. The criticism
is to appear in this paper. Mr. Harman
makes this offer at the suggestion of his pub-
lishers.

If anyone wishes to try their hand in this
contest, call to see the literary editor and
further dope concerning the contest will be
cheerfully given.

stoves

D.

EUMANEANS CHOOSE MEN
FOR JUNIOR-SENIOR TEAM

At the regular !meeting of the Eumanean
Literary Society last week L. D. Eckins,
Henry Morris and R. H. Smith were chosen
as members of the Junior-Senior debating
team to represent the society against the
Philanthropic Society on November 2lst, in
the regular annual debate.

After the debating and oratorical program,
the society installed its new term officers:
D. O. Ogden, president; L. D. Elkins, vice-
president; Paul Patterson, secretary, and H.
M. Morris, reviewer.

PANDEINICS DISCUSS
FAGGING OF FRESHMEN

The debate in the Pandeinic Society this
week was carried on entirely by the Fresh-
men. The subject was, Resolved, That fag-
ging of Freshmen at Davidson College
should be abolished. C. F. Monk and L. L.
Deck were appointed to take the place of ab-
sent debaters. Monk and Shaw upheld the
aftirmative against Deck and Pitts on the
negative.

J. B. Thompson delivered a declamation,
“The Army of the Potomac.” R. M. Carr
gave an oration on “Life,” in which he dis-
cussed the different aspects of life and liv-
ing. O, J. Allison gave a very varied and
interesting report on current events,

After some discussion it was decided that
the first meeting in each month will be an
open meeting, and all members of the faculty
are welcome,

Kk. M. Regen, '24, was received into the
society. It was announced that in the lot,
the affirmative side of the Junior-Senior de-
bate had fallen to the Pandeinics.

D

NEW POSTOFFICE IS
PRACTICALLY COMPLETED

Davidson's

new postoftice is
completed and ready for use.

practically
However, no
detinite information could be secured ay to
when it will be thrown open to the public,
although from reliable sources it was learned
that it will open its doors within five weeks.

The new postoffice is a one-story brick
structure adjoining | Henderson's jewelry
stere, Its location is more convenient for the
students of the college and most of the town
people than the location of the old postoffice.
The new building will add much to the ef-
ficiency of the handling of Davidson's ever-
increasing bulk of mail.

aecSneeE Sp) CS

HARRY RUSSELL SUBMITS
CRIGINAL ONE-ACT PLAY

At the meeting of the Sigma Epsilon last
Tuesday night a number of appreciative criti-
cisms of much talked of modern plays were
given,

Bob Davidson gave a splendid criticism of
J. M. Barries’ play,” The Twelve Pound
Look. This play has an English setting and
deals with life in modern England. In the
criticism the plot was outlined and various
characters discussed.

Riders to the Sea, by Synge, was then criti-
cised in a clear comprehensive way by Hugh
Smith. He pointed out the various merits
of the play and brought out the true way in
which the characters are portrayed.

Harry Russell read a brilliant original one-
act play dealing’*with Turkish life of 50 years
ago. He kept his audience gasping with the
way he presented daring scenes from various
of his harems. Needless to say the audience
gave its hearty approval to Russell's produc-
tion and commended the ingenious manner
in which he worked out the exciting plot.

Refreshments were served at the conelu-
sion of the program.

D.

P. B. GUTHERY APPOINTED
TO MANAGE MAGAZINE

P. B. Guthery has been appointed business
manager of the Davidson College Magazine.
Last year John Roddy was appointed to this
office, but before the begfnning of this sea-
son he decided to study law at the Univer-
sity of South Carolina and his resignation
followed, taking effect at once. E. T. Wool-
folk was temporarily appointed to fill this
vacancy until the final appointment should be
made.

Woolfolk has efficiently filled this office
during his temporary incumbency and his
work has proved very acceptable. Guthery,
the new manager, is highly capable and his
work during the coming year will no doubt
merit the honor and confidence bestowed
upon him.

TD).

AESCULAPIAN CLUB PLANS
_ BEST YEAR OF HISTORY

At the dark and dismal hour of 10 p. m.
on Tuesday, November 7th, the worthy fol-
lowers of Aesculapius met in Dr. J. M+ Mac-
Connell’s class room to discuss . things
medical and to hold solemn consultation con-
cerning their plans for the coming year.

Some statistics were read about various
medical colleges including Johns Hopkins
and the University of Pennsylvania. There
is a committee busy at work writing a con-
stitution for the club and a pin has been
adopted which will be the distinguishing
mark of these aspirants to the M. D. de+
gree. |

In the club there are 38 members, 35 of
whom were present at this meeting, and tne
officers are: Chief physipian, Frank Witd-
man; interne physician, J B. Sloan; keeper
of medical data, Joe Baldwin, and medical
bursar, Harry Wyman.

The Aesculapian ciub has fully awakened
from the dormant state in which it has ex-
isted for the last two years, as its big in-
crease in membership shows. Every member
is enthusiastically looking forward to the
best year the club has ever had.

D.

SPANISH CLUB MAKES
MANY PLANS FOR YEAR

Immediately after the concert of Mr.
Bishop Thursday night, a short business ses-
sion of the Spanish Club was held in Doctor
MacConnell’s class room. Several commit-
tees were appointed and the membership of
the club was augmented by the addition-of
L. D. Elkins and M.S. Beall.

The officers of the club for the vear are:
President, W. M. Heston; secretary, N. A,
Currie, and treasurer, Georgeleming. With
these able officers at its helm the club hopes

to do even greater work this year than last

D

“TO HAVE AND TO HOLD”
SECURED AS NEXT MOVIE

Those of you who have read “To Have
and To Told” will no doubt appreciate the
efforts of management of the movies to se-
cure this picture produced by George Hitz
Maurice and featuring
Bert Lytel

tetty, Compson and
The scene of the picture is Virginia dur
ing the carly settlement period, din the set
tlement there is a certain backwoodsman whe
that girls to”
brought to \meriea to be sold as wives.

hears he

He

appears on the scene as a spectator and finds

some English are

aman attempting to kiss one of the girls. He
goes to her rescue and takes her home

At his home he
daughtér of

finds out that she is tne
an Mnglish nobleman, and that
she had come to America to escape marrying
aman that she did not love,
the place of her maid on the ship.
consideration from her
treated kindly while at his house.

One day they go into, town and acciden-

She had taken
She asks
and

reseucr to he

tally see her would-be husband in seareh ot
her. Tle makes repeated attempts to get her
to go hack to England but she refuses. She
and the American escapes on a raft only to
he pursued by the Englishman.

They are wreeked on an island where the
American and Englishman make a temporary
truce. On this island they discover a settle-
ment of pirates wrangling over who 9s to pe
their leader. The American suceceds in es-
tablishing-himstlf as leader and they set out
to sea® They come on an English vessel and
fire upon it. The English ship returns the
fire and captures them.

The Englishman tells “the situation in his
favor but the girl reveals everything and
succeeds in getting hersehf and the Ameri-
acn released. ‘They are returned to land and
eventually marry

ceeeereee 225 ) Hee et
WILDCAT MINSTREL
(Continued from Page 1)
young Indian
at Harvard. It is claimed to bea bigger
production than “The Sheik.”
WILDCAT MINSTRELS

The Wildcat: minstrels abroad, a black-
face extravagaza in four acts, will occupy
the stage of Shearer Hall on the Saturday
night of Senior speaking, December 2nd.
The plans for this, the third Wildcat min-
strel, are more promising than for any other
previous performance.

Prince who comes to school

This presentation will be a combined un-
dertaking of the Glee Club and the Dramatic
Club under the personal direction and super-
vision of Professor Erwin. ‘The various
features of a college minstrel will be pre-
sented but in an unusually novel and inter-
esting manner, There will be an abundance
of singing, dancing and comparatively new
jokes, but the costumes, the scenery, and the
lighting effects will be unusual and new to
the Wildcat stage.

The program will be presented in four
acts, each one embracing a part of the for-
eign travels of the Wildcat minstrels. The
first act will take place on the Pullman car
of a Charlotte-Taylorsville train; the second
skips to the midst of the watery wastes of
the Pacific ocean; the third occurs on the
much-heralded island of Yap, while the
fourth act, the ministrel proper, will occur in
the far-off palace of the Sultan of Sarawap.

In every feature, the new Wildcat min-
strel bids fair to surpass in every way the
efforts of the past. For its novel, beautiful,
interesting and unusual features, it will long
be remembered in the history of Davidson
dramatics. It might not be too much even to
say that it is to be a super-minstrel, combin-
ing Chu Chin Chow and the Greenwich Vil-
Jage Follies, and surpassing both.

MR. HAMILTON HOLT SPEAKS
, (Continued from Page 1)
America after it had iccovered fron. the
slump in moral tone that followed the war.

In his quiet manner and with no tricks of
oratory the speaker proceeded to paint three
vivid word pictures. ‘The first was of the
American front in France. Mr. Holt, with
some other journalists, went to Secheprey,
the first section of the front lines that the
Americans held. On the way they passed
through the town of Domremy, the birth-
place of Joan of Arc. It was Joan of Are
Day and there were special services in prog-
ress at the church. One could almost see the
scene as the speaker told of the people gath-
ered there whom these Americans had come
to aid in their great struggle.

The party to the American
headquarters at Secheprey, where they were
taken up to the front lines. Mr. Holt talked
with the men and received many messages

proceeded

from them to be passed on to their relatives
at home. While there a colonel told them
this story:

The very first night the Americans occu-
pied the front lines the Germans staged a
feint attack. ‘The-nesxt night they made a
real attack with about 300 men. They were
driven back and the next night they came
This time they had 3,000 of their best
shock troops and the Americans were driven
back about A young lieutenant

and 370 men with two machine gun outtits

again,
two miles.

eut off and one of the outlits was sur-
No one knew what
For 48 hours the
meh were fighting constantly and at the end

were
rounded and captured
had become of the other,

of that time they were back in their old post
tion, ‘Two officers went in search of the lost
He saluted
and apologized for his two day's growth of

unit. ‘They found the lieutenant.

heard. He reported, “Sir, we are all here,
nine diving and 28 dead.” ‘The line had heen
held

Vhe second story was a sketeh of the
Peace Conference in session, After going

the
were finally allowed to look on through a

through many formiatities journalists

door at the plenary session. ‘This group was
a speaking contrast to the great Congress of
Vienna which was the only other confer-
ence of the sort worthy to be ranked in im-
At the Vienna con
ference the important members were kings

Mt

portance with this one.

Versailles the important
Editor Petty
Lawyer Lloyd George and Professor Wil-
At the stroke of the appointed hour,
Clemenceau, who was presiding, rapped and
Wilson rose to read the report of the com-

and princes,

members were Clemenceau,

son,

mittee appointed to draft the Covenant of
the League of Nations. Ina calm matter-of
fact voice, he read the document through, and
turning his face down, spoke in its Menatt.
He had the two most cynical types possible
to speak to, journalists and diplomats, but
every eye was riveted upon him as he spoke
with suave and polished case, yet straight
from the shoulder, When he ended there
was a complete silence that told the depth of
the impression he had made far better than
any applause could have done. Co-opera-
tion was the central idea of that conference
and of the whole world then. But America
slumped from her high moral plane and took
up her old policy of isolation,

Mr. [lolt sees a brighter day for the fu-
ture and the first indication to him of the
dawn of this day was the great ceremony last
year on Armistice Day when the Unknown
Soldier was buried with what Mr. Holt de-'
clared was “the most inspiring ceremony, the
most patriotic pageant, and the most touch-
ing funeral ever held.” But after this cere-
mony came one that was significant of a turn
in the minds of men. Without pomp, with-
out any committee on arrangements, but
spontaneously, full 15,000 people went to the
home of the man whose ideals America had
repudiated one year before. Although they
could not see him, these people stayed in the
street from 3:30 o'clock in the afternoon
until after dark simply looking at the house

and the window, behind which there was a
man too weak to come out and speak to
them, although he made the effort.

Mr. Wilson has done four things for
which he should be remembered and hon-
ored, if for no others. ‘These are:

First, he focussed the hetrogeneous ideas
of the American people into one idea and by
the sheer power of this idea he was able to
lead the world.

Second, by his declaration that the U. S.
was going into the war to save the world
and not for her own gain he placed the U. S,
ona moral plane hitherto unequalled.

Third, he drove a wedge between the peo-
ple of Germany and the Hohenzollerns.

Fourth, he enunciated the terms upon
which peace would be made. Samuel Gom-
pers is authority for the statement that there
would have been labor revolutions in France
and England if Wilson had not proclaimed
his Fourteen Points. He saved life by nego-
tiating peace instead of waiting to dictate
it, and yet did not lose any advantage that the
latter course might have brought.

The League can not, will not, die. ‘There
is no other way to settle international prob-
lems. It must be the League or nothing. It
the bright) spot in) Europe and
America is gradually coming back to. this
idea. Our forefathers thought independence
of so much value that they were willing to
pledge to it their “lives, their fortunes and
their sacred honor.” America needs to pledge
hers for anew And if she
does so, then her boys will net have died in
vain,

Is one

indepedence.

Davidson’s |

Reputation

@It’s keeping is in our
hands.

@ Remember that fact
when you write home, to
your girl, to your friends
in other schools—watch

for that little slip.

@ When you are away
from ‘The Hill’’ remem-
ber that

Davidson incarnate. Your

you are Old

deeds, your words, your
thoughts, are those of Old
Davidson—be sure that

you are proud of them.

WHY IS THE

Winston-Salem

Asheville

|
|
|
|

To serve the wide-spread needs of men, women, and
business concerns of the Carolinas for thoroughly modern
and dependable banking, trust and investment service.

You are cordially invited to use our facilities.

The :
WACHOVIA BANK and TRUST CO.

NORTH CAROLINA
Raleigh

ee ee eel

WACHOVIA?

Salisbury
High Point

BWM 0
