THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 14, 1922.

LITERARY NEWS

Query for Debate, April 20th.
Resolved, that the new Physics
building should be brick veneered
and made a permanent building on
Davidson campus.

POLITY CLUB HEARS DOCTOR
LINGLE ON WORLD FINANCES

Doctor Lingle made a very compre-
hensive talk to the International Rela-
tions Club last Tuesday night on the
subject of International Finances.

Before going into.his speech Doctor
Lingle told what the club has meant to
him in the way of contact with the stu-
dents and the discussion of world af-
fairs and problems,

About eleven billidhs of dollars are
due’ to us from our former allies, but
Doctor Lingle made, it clear that no
gold actually went overseas as we loan-
ed it to them in the form of extended
credits for the purchase of war sup-
plies manufactured or produced in this
country. This was used after 250 mil-
lion dollars and dividends invested by
the allies before the war were used up.
But on the other hand nine-tenths of our
shipping went overseas in foreign ves-
sels and this reduced their indebtedness
to us considerably.

Doctor Lingle laid particular stress on
the fact that no cash to amount to any-
thing has ever left the United States, and
the only way our former allies will ever
pay us what they owe us would be by the
imports to the United States exceeding
the exports by a very large margin. He
showed that this is practically impossi-
ble for some time to come as Europe
must rebuild almost from the ground up
in her industries and not until condi-
tions were absolutely normal could we
hepe to even begin to collect the amount
due us. _

Besides being very interesting Doctor
Lingle gave a clear and comprchensive
talk on a subject that should be clear to
everydfe, but heretofore has been hazy
in the minds of most people.

D.

NEW REPORTERS CHOSEN FOR
FUTURE DAVIDSONIAN WORK

At the meeting of the Reporters’ Club
held on last Friday night, the following
men. were elected to membership: J. R.
Earnest, D. D. McIvor, C. M.- McIlwaine,
1. M. Moss, H. B. Price, D. B Whar-
ton, and A..N. Moffatt.

These men have been chosen as mem-
bers of the club becatise of their good
work as reporters and because of their
promptness in handing in assigned work.
They will be taken in Thursday night at
a feed given by the club.

D
GET RICH*QUICK PLAN WAS
GIVEN A SUDDEN REVERSAL

“Get-Rich-Quick Wallingford” appear-
ed here Saturday night. The picture
tells of the attempt of Wallingford and
his partner, Daw, to defraud Battles-
burg citizens by means of fake stock
transactions. Their scheme makes a
great hit and they make a lot of honest
money without any effort on their part.
They marry Battlesburg girls and be-
come the town’s leading men, transform-
ing the sleepy village into a busy manu-
facturing town. The show had a great
deal of humor in it; and a good plot.
However, the action was slow and drawn
out and did not hold the attention of
the audience,

D.

BIG CANVAS TOP ATTRACTION
WILL BE HERE ON APRIL 17TH

) Boys, save your money, the great show

‘is coming! Included in this show are
150 people, 116 head’ of horses and ponies,
one camel, three elephants, monkeys,
trained dogs, 10 cages of living wild ani-
mals, and in fact everything that goes
to make up a first class show. The fea-
ture acts are: the great DeMarlow,
world’s greatest grotesque artist; Miss
Marion Drew and her herd of perform-
ing elephants, wonderful beyond de-
scription; the three Georges, the world’s
greatest acrobats; also trappee perform-
ers, wire walkers, and other features too
numerous to mention. This greatest of
all one ring entertainments, The Hoag
Shows, will be here Monday, the 17th.

BONUS BILL IS DISCUSSED
‘IN PHILANTHROPIC SOCIETY

In its usual feast of reason and flow
of soul, Thursday night, the Phi Society
discussed the Bonus Bill passed by the
House.

S. R. Sloan and Paul Story held that
the Senate should also pass this bill,
while Freeman and McGeachy opposed
it McGeachy was. the individual star
and he gave a clearly outlined speech,
although he spoke extemporaneously.
The main point at issue was whether or
not the money could be paid. As the
affirmative was not able to convince the
judges that the money could be collect-
ed without a grievous burden of taxa-
tion, the latter decided in favor of the
negative.

Baldwin delivered an oration in his
usual eloquent style on “The Evolution
of the Dress.” He traced this evolution
from the garden of Eden to the present
day. . ra

Grady Brown followed with an ac-
count of the Battle of Belleau Woods.
He gave an interesting account of the)
things he himself had:seen in and after
the battle.

D.
JUNIOR-SENIOR DEBATE IS
WON BY THE METROPHILIANS

Last Wednesday evening the Junior-
Senior contest between the Metrophil-
ian and Phi Societies was held in the
Phi hall. The question for debate, “Re-
solved, That the Philippine Islands
should be given complete autonomy at
once,” was upheld on the affirmative by
Russell, Sloan, and Knight, of the Phi,
and on the negative by Wooten, Taylor,
and Burney, of the Metrophilian.
The decision of the judges was unani-
mously in favor of the negative and
the medals awarded to the best speakers
went to Burney, of the Metrophilian, and
Knight, of the Philanthropic, while Bur-
ney, Taylor, and Knight, with Wooten
as alternate, were selected as a team to
debate the other societies. Those acting
as judges for the contest were: Captain
Wetherby, Professor Fleagle, and Prof.
L. M. Currie.
The finals of the Junior-Senior debate
will be held on the evening of Monday,
April 17. The Eu-Pan team is composed
of Ogden, Patterson, and Moore.
T).
METROPHILIAN SOCIETY
HAS REGULAR
DEBATING PROGRAM

The Metrophilian Literary Society had
an unusually good meeting last Thurs-
day night. The debate on the question,
“Resolved, That the bonus bill should be
passed,” was the best that the society
lias heard for some weeks. Upholding
the affirmative of the question were C.
FE. Hodgin and J. M. Carr. The former
had an especially good speech. His
‘points were well brought out and he
showed good logic and thought in his
arguments. The negative was, defended |
by J. A. Abernathy and T. B. Thompson,
The judges rendered their decision in
favor of the affirmative.

One of the best features of the pro-
‘gram was an oration on Garfield by W.
A. Patterson. This was one of the best
crations. that has been delivered in the}
society this year. The speaker showed |
good preparation.and delivered his!
speech. in an excellent manner. T. A.
Lacy closed the program with a well
prepared and excellently delivered ora-|
tion on “Raleigh.”

D.
NEW BOOKS OF FICTION ARE
ADDED TO LIBRARY SHELVES

The library has recently received sev-
eral new books. All of these books are
interesting and deal with a variety of
subjects. :

Perhaps, the most interesting is “Suc-
cess,” by Samuel Hopkins Adams. This
is a story of human struggle and achieve-
ment, thrilling in plot, and of absorbing
interest from the first page to the last.

“Nobody’s Man,” by E, Phillips Op-
penheim, is a story of English politics.
M1. Oppenheim’s inventive genius is un-
failing, and his dexterity in creating
tangles and then unraveling them brings
surprise after surprise to the reader

Miss Temple Bailey has written a

group of unusual short stories, entitled,
“Gay Cockade.” In these works, Miss
Bailey shows her remarkable keen in-
sight into different natures and knowl-
edge of the romance that comes to each
one.

“The Federalist System,” by John
Spencer Bassett, Ph.D., is an outlook
by the author on the problems that our
government faced under the guidance of
Washington, Hamilton, and Jefferson.
Dr, Bassett is professor of History at
Trinity College.

A friend of the college has recently
dunated “An Autobiography,” by Wil-
ine, Atkinson, who was founder of the
Farm Journal.

D
GAMMA SIGMA EPSILON HAS
PROFITABLE DISCUSSIONS

Delightful refreshments served by
Mesdames Arbuckle and Thies, together
with a splendid program made the meet-
ing of the Gamma Sigma Epsilon fra-
ternity last Friday evening a most en-
joyable affair. A happy group of profes-
sors and students gathered at the home
of Dr. Arbuckle on Concord Avenue for
the occasion. The-dining hall was beau-
tifully decorated, and a delicious supper
was served, After the supper the reg-
war program was held.

The first number on the program was
a paper continuing the club study of
vitamines. It was presented by Neal
Currie who handled his subject admir-
ably, giving a bright report on the
methods of separation according to Dr.
Funk.

The program was continued by an il-
lustrated lecture by C. F. Wildman on
the recovery of silver from hypo solu-
tions used to develop motion picture
films. He calculated that in Los Angeles
alone a half ton of silver could be re-
claimed from the picture industry in one
inonth. Experiments carried out with
the lecture and statistics gathered here
and there showed his calculations to be
correct,

In conclusion Hugh Smith read a paper
on the life and works of Pasteur, well-
krdwn chemist and discoverer of the
antitoxin for hydrophobia. —

This delightful evening wil be remem-
bered by all the members of Gamma Sig-
ma Epsilon as one of the most pleasant
events of the year.

D.

ELSIE FERGUSON-WALLACE
REID PRODUCTION SATURDAY

Saturday night at the movies “For-
cver,” with Elsie Ferguson and Wallace
Reid sharing the stellar roles will. be
seen, This is said’ to be the greatest
story of love the screen has ever known,
being based on the novel “Peter Ibbet-
son” by George DuMaurier.

The scenes of “Forever” are laid in
France and England in the forties of
last century. Gogo Pasquier, the little
son of a chemist, at the death of his
father, is adopted by Colonel Ibbetson,
and takes the name of Peter Ibbetson.
Peter grows to manhood disgusted with
Colonel Ibbetson, supposedly his uncle.
He goes in for sports and becomes a
drifter.

Peter meets his childhood sweetheart
and finds that she is a duchess. He
finds Colonel Ibbetson with Dolores, a
dancer,-and the Colonel says that Peter
is his own son. Later Peter goes to him
for an explanation and is attacked by,
the old man. In the battle Peter kills
the Colonel in defence of himself and is
sentenced to be hanged. His childhood
friend, now Duchess of Towérs, who
loves him, has his sentence commuted to

\life imprisonment.

In his dreams Peter sees his sweet-
heart in visions. She becomes a widow,
and both of them spend their lives in
dreams. They grow old, and the lady is
finally killed in a fire. About the same
time Peter dies and the two are reunited
spiritually.

D.

A tabernacle, modeled after revival
tabernacles, as a temporary auditorium,
is under consideration by the trustees
of Ohio State University. The present
auditorium is not large enough to hold
even the men of the Freshmen class, and
the building program does not include
an auditorium for some years.

Da

1.

Students at the University of Amster-
dam, Holland, have organized a series of
lectures on the liquor problem. Profes-
sors of the university are the speakers.

ae

ATHLETIC NEWS

Niches in the Wildcat
of Fame

FREDERICK WILHELM
HENGEVELD, ’18.

D*** Basketball.

D*** Baseball.

Dutch Hengeveld, of Waycross, Ga.,
has won for himself a lasting place in
the Wildcat Hall of Fame by his ex-
ploits onsthe hardwood court and the
diamond. Winning the coveted mono-
gram four years in basketball and base-
ball and captaining two teams, he_ is
known throughout the South as a past-
tnaster of the cage game, a strikeout
king, and a clouter of the old apple.
The Wildcat cage teams were built
around this tall lanky center and without
him they were at sea.

The 18 quint started the season spec-
tacularly by winning five out of six
games from the best teams in Virginia
and Carolina, Then came the disastrous
trip, on which the team, crippled by his
loss due to injury, dropped three games
by small margins. In the Clemson game
Dutch again donned his jersey and play-
ing his last game under the colors of
the Red and Black eluded all opposition,
ringing up 20 points and starring tn the
37-22 victory.

As a slab-artist, Hengeveld stands in
the limelight with a record of 16 won
and five lost for a percentage of .762. In
11018 he led the team in batting with an
average of .381 and his four-year record
places him in the honored  .300 class.
Probably his greatest performance was
on a six-game trip through South Car-
clina and Georgia in 1918. He played
every inning of these games, pitching 30
innings. He ran his batting mark up to
.450, fielded in sensational style and on
the side, pitched a double header against
Georgia Tech, winning the opener 7-1

NO. 2.

nightcap.
Dutch was a member of the Little Rock

Travellers who won the Southern
League rag in 1920. He has been, and
still is, turning out winning teams at

Davidson,
D
VIRGINIA TRACK SQUAD

1
(Continued from page 1)
team was not disheartened by the de-
feat and are ready. and anxious to meet
N. C. State on Saturday.
Summary of Events.

Shot Put—Knight (D. C.), first; Byrd
(V- P. I.), second; McDowan (V. P. 1),
third. Distance, 37 feet 10 1-2 inches.

1oo Yard Dash—Brittingham (V. P. I.),
first; Woodward (V. P. I.), second; Koe-
hig (D. C.), third. Time, 10 seconds.

Pole Vault—Gracy (D. C.) and Byrd
(V. P. I.), tied for first; Culbreth “(V. P.
I.), third. Height, 10 feet.

Mile Run—Newman (V. P. I.), first;
Jackson (V. P. I.), second; Sprunt (D.
C.), third. Time, 4 minutes, 48 4-5 sec-
onds.

220 Yard Dash—Brittingham (V. P. I.),

nig (D. C.), third. Time, 21 3-5 seconds.
High Jump—Bracy (D. C.), Calhoun

matter who made it---come here.

work:

CHARLOTTE PREPS BOW
DOWN BEFORE
WILDKITTEN TEAM

The Davidson Scrubs trimmed. the
Charlotte University School nine in a
rather slow and listless game on Sprunt
Field, Saturday, by a 7-2 count. The
game, which was devoid of thrills, was
marred by many errors, each team hav-
ing six miscues to its discredit. West-
nedge, a southpaw, started well for C. U.
S. and fanned two of the first three men °
to face him.

The Charlotte lads shoved their first
tun across in the initial round on a
couple of errors and a hit to the center
garden that rolled thru Richard’s legs.
The Wildkittens came: back strong in
their half of the second, scoring four
points on a mixture of two hits, a sac-
rifice, four errors and two stolen bases.
Meehan went to the mound for the
Prep lads in the fourth and Pyron took
care of the receiving end. George Neal
greeted him with a four-ply swat of the
Babe Ruth variety in the fifth. Two
more Davidson runs came across in the
following inning on a hit, a sacrifice and
three errors. C. U. S. scored their last
tally in the seventh on a base on balls, a

|stolen base and Neal’s error at second.
|

Smith with three singles had a perfect
day at the bat for the Scrttbs. W. Rich-
ards with three bases on balls and a sac-
rifice hit on his four trips to ‘the rubber
also looked good. Meehan and “Rat”
Austin were the mainstays for C. U. C.

Score by innings: R. H. E.
Davidsonmassasesnenn 040 O12 x—7 6 6
GAUSS ese lesedeees 100 000 I—2 4 2

Batteries—Davidson: Anthony, Moore,
Alexander and Weeks. C. U. S.: West-
nedge, Mechan and Meehan, Tyron.

(D. C.) and Byrd (V. P. I.), tied for first.

: 4 : | Height, 5 feet, 8 inches.
and allowing only four safeties in the}

120 High Hurdles—Bowes (V. P. I.),
first; Gracy (D. C.), second; Boynton
(Vv. P| 1), third. Time, 17 4-5 seconds.

Discus Throw—Knight (D. C.), first;
Potts (V. P. I.), second; de la Barre
(V. P. L), third. Distance, 114 feet, 5
inches. :

880 Yard Run—Newman( V. P. 1), first;
Galloway (D. C.), second; Shanks (V. P.
I). third. Time, 2 minutes, 8 1-5 seconds.

Broad Jump—Byrd (V.. P. 1.), first;
McElroy (V. P. I., second; Gracy (D.
€.), third. Distance, 21 feet 9 3-4 inches.

220 Yard Hurdles—Bowles (V. P. I.),
first; Flory (V. P. I.), second; McFad-
den (D. C.), third. Time, 26 3-5 seconds.

Javelin Throw—Potts (V. P. f; first;
McCrow (V. P. I.), second; McComb’
(D. C.), third. Distance, 157 feet, 3
inches,

Two Mile Run—Chinn (V. P. I.), first;
Roden (V. P.1.), second; Roberts (D. C.),

.{third. Time, 10 minutes, 40 3-5 seconds.

440 Yard Dash—Woodward (V. P. I.),
first; Weyman (V. P. I.), second; Gallo-

first; Woodward (V. P. I.), second; Koe-;

way (D. C.), third. Time, 52 seconds.
T).

The Book Lover’s Club met on Friday
of last week with Mrs. E. J. Erwin. Prof. .
A. Currie addressed them on the sub-
ject: “The  State—Its Rights and
Responsibilities.”

RRRRRRRRLRRRRRRRRLARRLRALRERELRLKRKLRRKLLLLLRRL LR

New Spring Clothes for College Men

If you think styles are pretty much alike, that one model is as good as another no

We'll show you that there is a difference---that the styles of Tate-Brown clothes are
better. In the cut of the lapels, the set of the collar, the drape of the coat
the hang of the trousers, also ate difference between hand tailoring and machine

New Society Brand Clothes for iphike have just come in and now is a good time to

select your spring clothes.

TATE-BROWN Co.

Charlotte, N. C.

18 E. Trade St.

EQUIPMENT FOR EVERY SPORT

SPORTING GOODS

Basketball, Tennis, Baseball goods. We sell the Spalding, Reach and Wright
& Ditson goods, We have the exclusive agency for A. G. Spalding & Bros.

RACKETS RESTRUNG BY AN EXPERT

Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.

A. L. Fasl, Mgr.

’ Phone 902

