THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 23, 1922

& ’

THLETIC NEW s——

ALUMNI ASSIST COACH
GREY ON SPRUNT FIELD

The alumni have shown that they are
back of the Fighting Wildcat team by their
actual presence and work on the field betore
the game. Old stars who know. the game
from start to finish, have contributed what
they know of Carolina’s style of play and
have put pep and confidence and fight in the
team by their presence.

Perhaps the most natural looking figure
on the field during the past week was that
of Jack Black, one of the greatest backs Da-
vidson has ever produced. His work was
always spectacular. He was known every-
where as one of the greatest line plungers
of his day. Jack finished here in ’20 and has
been located in Greenville since then. Green-
ville learned to respect Jack in 1919 and
seem to have kept all of this respect ever
since.

Another figure of prominence was “Nuts”
Graham, ’08. His fame lay in his speed and
generalship, and his name has come down
as one of the fastest quarterbacks Davidson
has ever had. Mr. Graham is valuable not
only to give the team the benefit of his foot-
ball experience, but his ability to put pep
and fight in a team is unlimited,

Doctor Edgerton, of Columbia, was a very
prominent figure on the ficld in Charlotte,
It was impossible for him to get here before
the game but the fight he instilled in the
team in Charlotte was evident. Red is an-
other character in Davidson football history.
He was an all-state man when lie was here,
in the class of ’12, and has been an enthu-
siastic Davidson fan ever since.

The Davidson student body and alumni
want these men to know how much they ap-
preciate their services.

D.

TED JONES SINGS SONG
OF BATTLE IN CHAPEL

Once upon a time, in the days before ‘the
wicked Tar Heels had defeated the mighty
Wildcats, there appeared one day before the
morning gathering of the Wildcats a man by
the name of Ted Jones. This man was
famous for his great singing and had often
come before the Wildcats to lead them in
their religious songs. That morning, how-
ever, instead of asking them to sing a re-
ligious song, he asked them to sing a song en-
titled “O Davidson.” Now this song was
never intended for use in a religious service,
but was intended rather as a battle song for
the Wildcats as they went forth to their con-
flicts.. However, the Wildcats did not hesi-
tate to follow their leader as he strayed
from the straight and narrow path, but with
great shouts of joy sprang to their feet. So
great indeed was their enthusiasm that their
keepers, commonly known as the Faculty,
were constrained to rise to their feet and
stand as they sang. With the whole power
of their strong lungs the husky young Wild-
cats roared through the chorus of their war
song to the end.

THE WILDCAT SCREAMS

On to Greenville—and Furman

first such club since 1916.

WOFFORD FRESH LOSE
TO DAVIDSON FRESH

Coach George’s Freshman team proved
their ability as fighters when they conquered
Woftord’s Fresh last Friday. The game was
not easily won but at times was very close.
They deserve much praise, not individual
stars, but eleven men who fought to the best
of their ability and who won a good clean
game of football.

While Wofford was outweighed by Da-
vidson they made up for it by their speed
and ability to run plays, drawing first blood
by scoring a touchdown in the initial period
with a long forward pass. This, was the
only tally during this quarter, which ended
with Davidson holding the ball on Wofford’s
30-yard line. ‘

During the early part of the second quar-
ter the Wildkittens, scored by intercepting a
pass. ‘1he pass was blocked and Thompson
grabbed it for a touchdown, The try for
point failed. Irom Wofford’s kick-off Da-
vidson marched steadily down the field on a
series of passes and end runs and the half
ended on Wofford’s 35-yard line.

Davidson resorted to these tactics in the
next quarter and, with a defense which
Wofford was unable to pierce, gained with
an uncanny determination and scored their
second counter. ‘This ended the scoring for
the day.

Black took care of the punting for David-
son and his spirals were covered in fine form
by the rest of the team, McDonald tackling
several Wofford memalmost in their tracks.
Sappenticld received an injury while tack-
ling on the three-yard line.

Line-up and summary :
DAVIDSON (12)

Baker (c)

WOFFORD (6)
Haynesworth

IDAHO crannies jinicas Pressly
Right Tackle
| edo a8: b Peer eri ICTR SCRE SE i RIC ID Durham

Right Guard

GOK is resents eR raenneh hii 4as McDow
Center
WANES a Citar rnueareriitay Werk sinc Knotts
Left Guard
PATIOPBON Viaucc trie ell) «ics 6 Lewis (c)
Left Tackle
Creighton erences ee vine hiey 6 Cantey
Left End
Cent iiabardosinsundoregsed Rhame
Quarter
MOWONAIMS iene Then att ehine bites New
Right Half
BACK Gast a serinbirse sent (ekias Gibson
Left Half
ICI Atacisittin eta riie Foray ars J 3 West
Fullback
Substitutions—Davidson: Williams for
Sappenfield, Sappenfield for Williams,

Thompson for Vance, Huie for Cox, Cox
for Huie, Alford for McDonald, Johnson
for Alford, Cook for Johnson, Alford for
Black.

D.

GASTON COUNTY CLUB
ORGANIZES FOR ACTION

a Gaston County Club was organized, the
For the past five
years the number of Gaston and Gastonia
men attending Davidson has been small.
However, with the opening of the 1922-23
session has found 10 sons from Gaston.

Officers were elected and plans were laid
for the work of the year. The officials are
as follows: Robert L. Stowe, of Belmont},
president; J. B. Hall, vice-president, and
M. R. Patrick, secretary- treasurer. Other
members of the club include A. S. Anderson,
of Lowell; Ralph H. Falls, Charles K. Mar-
shall, Jr., George W. Ragan, Jr., Ben U.
Ratchford, Alfred S. Robinson and Willie
T. Spencer. The last six named are from
Gastonia. Mr. F. L. Jackson is also a mem-
ber.

For SHOE REPAIRING See

BLACK & KIMZY,

10 North Barracks

Get a MUNSON Shoe for Drill

_ Sport Shoes on display every Wednesday. at the
Commissary. :

MILLS SHOE CO.

oe 4 -

Statesville, N. C.:

SOPHS ADD ANOTHER

VICTORY TO THEIR BELT|%

Last Wednesday night the Soph basketball
team upheid their unbroken record of vic-
tories this veir by defeating the fast Con-
cord “Y” team. About 100 fellows suececded
in pulling themselves away from their studies
and shelled out the necessary 15 cents tu see
the game.

The Sophs literally ran away from the
Concord boys in the first 20 minutes of
play. Exhibiting a brand of basketball
rarely seen in the best of varsity games, the
five Sophomores, working as one man, ran
up a lead of 25-5 in this first half. Pete
Mitchell couldn't miss a goal, and rang the
basket no less than eight times.

In the second half the team slowed up
considerably, and scored only two field goals.
The scrubs were sent in for the last five
minutes, and Concord took advantage of
this opportunity to score, dropping in four
baskets. The game ended with the Sophs
on top of a 29 to 15 score.

D
COACH GREY ASPIRES
TO GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP

Coach Grey, while in Raleigh, bought him-
self a golf club of exceptional qualtiy and
value. This club, being of true workman-
ship, was guaranteed to knock a ball a dis-
tance of at least 250 yards at every stroke.
Coach Grey thought that with such a club,
and with the pretty form and perfect follow-
through which he possesses, that he could
beat any one on the local links. But alas,
poor coach was doomed to disappointment.
Misfortune befell him the first time he at-
tempted to use his club during an important
foursome. Coach had obviously lost the
“rules and regulations” because he was un-
aware of the fact that, in order to send a
hall through the air, you must first hit it.
He, accordingly, made a mighty swing and,
with disregard to the hall, hit a nearby rock,
which splintered his golf club and, along
with it jall hopes of ever becoming a golf
champ.

D
SECRET ORDER APPEARS
AS NEW ORGANIZATION

Last Thursday, Mr. &. 1. Smitn, ex-
captain of the 1920 football team at the Uni-
versity of South Carolina, called a meeting
of all men who were interested in the Single
Standard of Morals League of Anierica. 131
men signed up to back the movement. At
this meeting the following officers were
elected: C. R. Crawford, president; Baker,
W. 'T., vice-president; Price, H. B., secre-
tary; M. S. Beall, treasurer, and C. D.
Regen, sergeant. ‘

These men will form a nucleus around
which the league will function until it gets
on its feet. They will take in from time to
time, groups of gight or 10 men.

All the colleges in South Carolina have
organized branches of this league, but Da-
vidson is the first one in North Carolina to
organize. It is the purpose of this league
to promote higher ideals of pure morals
among men in al] the institutions of higher
learning in America.

The organizers of this league decided to
place it upon the secret order basis, thinking
that for this reason the movement will be
more lasting and substantial.

D
TENNIS TOURNAMENT IS
DELAYED BY TARDINESS

The tennis tournament which was written
up somewhat at length in the last issue of
the Davidsonian, is being played off with
remarkable slowness. It seems that some of
the entries cgnsider the chance of defending
Davidson as an honor hardly worth exerting
themselves to gain. The tournament has
been going on for practically a month and
just about half of the matches have been
played. :

The only match played this week was a
hard fought one between Staley and Mur-
ray. Murray won, 8-6, 7-5, 6-4. Both of
these men are good players and will prob-
ably make the team, though one of them has
been eliminated. It was a case of two good]
men opposing each other and one had to be
eliminated.

Harry Price is waiting to play the win-
ner of the lower bracket, as soon as the
entries get up enough energy to walk out to
the courts.

Kor

J. M. HENDRIX & CO.

“THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES”’

GREENSBORO, N. C.

WELL TELL YOU MORE ABOUT IT LATER

|

P, S—Our Shoes are built to a high standard of -
quality, then fairly priced. Thirty-five years of practical

experience behind every pair.

SK

tS
Cie

| Ce

— aD

R. O. T. C. Notes

By SAM BROIVN

The battalion staged an attack on Wed
nesday, November 15th. The first objective
was Doctor Grey’s farm. It was reached
without any casualties, the battalion mareh-
ing to the position in column of squads. Al-
though the danger was great, the morale was
high. The enemy fire was robbing the trees
of their beautifully colored foliage and
showering the men with twigs, but through
it all, the songs of the men rang out.

Arriving safely at this point, the boys in
khaki were allowed a few moments to rest.
Orders were issued by Major Cooper.

The attack against the second objective,
Davidson, and incidentally the camping
ground of the object of the whole attack,
the water supply, was begun. ‘The advance
was made in advance guard formation, the
route being an untraveled road through rug-
ged country.

The caps and neckties have arrived and
have been issued. This will improve the ap-
pearance of the battalion 100 per cent.

Try-outs for the rifle team) will be held
during the early part of December. The gal-
lery range will be open soon, Matches have
already been arranged with Mississippi, A.
and M., University of Delaware, V. P. 1.
University of ‘Tennessee, and Northwestern
University, while others are’ pending. The
team promises to be better this year than last
and it is hoped that Davidson will put out a
winning team,

Squad Competition

The competitive drill was held on Novem-
ber 8, at thesregular Wednesday afternoon
drill. ‘The squads of each company were
taken out and drilled separately by their cor-

porals. A committee of three graded cach
squad. In this way the best squad in each
company» was selected. On the following

Wednesday these four best squads were pit-
ted against each other, with the result of a tie
between the squads from companies A and, D.
The corporal of the best squad in Company
D is W. C. Ramsay. L. H. Brice is tne
corporal of the winning squad from Company
A. In the final competition between these
two squads the one from Company A was
decided the winner, although it was mighty
near being a tie again.

This squad especially deserves its honor
since Brice was not a full corporal, but only
acting as such. However, since then Brice
thas been made a corporal. ‘The other mem-
bers of the winning squad are: J. J} Earn-
hart, Lewis aBchman, A. N. Sinclair, N. G.
Anthony, W. C. Byrd, H. S. Rawson, and
E. L. Kennedy. These men will be issued
insignia of special distinction as soon as

FIGHTING SPIRIT SHOWN
AT BIG PEP MEETING

Nhe old Davidson spirit was very much in
evidence last ‘Thursday afternoon when the
entire student body went out to Sprunt Field
to let the team know that they had whote-
hearted support.

There were placards on the wire in front
of the bleachers bearing the Wildcat slogan,
“Down Carolina!” The band was out and
putting everything they had into that old
song dear to all Davidsonians. Yells were
given for the college, all the players, and the
coaches. ‘The team showed its appreciation
by going through a snappy practice that
would have made Ietzer and his Tar Heels
tremble had they been in the vicinity.

The students stayed out until practice was
over, giving yells, the band playing, and pep
flowing all over the field.

The dope and the majority of the people
were on Carolina’s side, but the fact that
their backs were against the wall, with a
tough enemy in front of them made the
Wildcats really get wild.

ES yyy

CLASS BASKETBALL

Junior-Senior

In a game featured by a close score and
few fouls, the Seniors triumphed over the
Juniors last Thursday night to the tune of
19 to 18, ‘The game was closely contested all
the way, first one side taking the lead and
then the other. The Juniors led at the half
when the score stood 12 to 11, but the Seniors
kept on with a dogged determination and
nosed out the win in the final minutes of
play. The crowd was kept on tip toes all
the way and were well satisfied when the
game ended. It would be hard to say who
the individual star of the game was, as
the team work of both teams stood out
prominently. Elkin for the Juniors con-
tributed a goodly number of points to their
score by caging six baskets from the floor’
while Toney was high point man for the
Seniors. tl looked as though the Juniors
would win when they accumulated a_five-
point lead in the second half, but three
goals in the final minutes brought the Seniors
to the top. It was, by far, the most inter-
esting game yet staged.

The line-up and score follows:

Bostick: (6) stiicnreaitil cites Elkins (12)
Forward

(Ray tt C2) eer eine aonb Boushee (2)
Forward

Gentry (2) 3s aca ioetens McBryde (4)
Center

Bradley (0) ............ee008 Curdts (0)
Guard :

(4X -\'( CU) Rae Were ean oan ewioy Wie Currie (0)
Guard

Substitutions—Seniors: Elliott for Gen-
try, Calhoun for Elliott, Richards (2) for

Jdpassiiile.

¢

Grey. Juniors: McConnell for Boushee.
