THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 24, 1922.

Peanut Parcher

My mind’s a blank, my senses gone,
So excuse, dear reader, what follows
here along.

The Same Old Question.
What has become of the old-fashioned
hoy who used to ask you to have a drink
down at the Drug Store?

A Secret.

John Bailey informs the Parcher that |

Bishop Lowry’s home brew is coming on
nicely.

The New Dormitory.
Crown Prince—“Well, Buck, what do
you think of the excavations?”
Buchanan—“They are pretty good as a
whole.”

Battling Hoye and Hurricane Davis,

promise a return engagement soon. Date
hasn’t been decided upon yet.

In Chapel.

Bob Davidson—“We want all you boys |

to have girls up and we will look after
them.”

“That'll hold her,” said Pharoah as he}

hitched his mule to the Sphinx.

Latin.

Yip—“Well, I have got to take Hor-
ace.” :

Yap—“Horace who?
then?”

Yip—"“To Charlotte and back.”

Well where,

Working.

Tobe and the laundry are about to
work themselves to death this week. It’s
a good thing Junior Speaking comes but
once a year.

The Carnival.

Tucker, McCuen, Young, and Sam
Story are all trying for the place as the
wild man from Borneo in the Junior
carnival.

Going Some.
Walter Knox—“Spratt, you sure can
pitch.” f
Spratt—“I ought to be able to; I hit
the bat every time I throw a ball.”

Heard On Sprunt Field.
“A man on third—one down,” he said,
“We'll have to work a squeeze.”
~*But Johnny, dear, don’t do it here—
It’s much too public—please.”

Information.
Enoch informs the Parcher his girl
will be in Friday night in time for the
show.

A Big Time.
It is rumored that Flop Beaver plans
to have his. hair cut before speaking.

Graduation exercises in a local corre-
spondence school are to be held some
time in near future.

The Parcher advises everyone to use
any method they know of to scare off
the rain this week-end,

“Good Byecycle.”
First One—Hay, fever!
Second One—How do you dewberry?
First One—Oh, I’m well-bucket!

First One—Junior Speaking brings to
our mind the fact that girls are gen-
erally speaking—

Second One—Yes, generally speaking
is right.

First—Aha, drunk again. You haven’t
tasted water in so long that I'll bet you
don’t know what it is!

Second—Sure I do, it’s what they put
under bridges.

Historic.

A certain class was recently dismissed

after roll was called. The members of

the class told Bill Ramsey he was not
going to be shot.

For Rent—Postoffice box. See Frank

Wildman.

o

T).

Miss Ruth Henderson‘and Miss Ellen
Black are home from school for the
week-end.

that its success depended largely upon |
the secrecy with which the preparations |

: were made.
Monday morning Dr. J. H. H. Goheen,

D |
|medical missionary to India, addressed TRACK SQUAD HAS BEEN |
|the biology students and discussed for REDUCED TO FIFTEEN MEN |

| them some of the iniportant and serious
physical troubles that are prevalent in
india and are of great economical im-
portance. According to facts, and Doc-
{tor Goheen’s actual experiences, the
most common and serious diseases are
}pyorrhea, malaria, kalazar, phalaria,
|leprosy and intestinal parasite troubles.

All of these diseases are known to be
contracted, directly or indirectly, by
parasites or germs, of which the most
common is the ameba.

In the case of pyorrhea we know that
it is a disease that affects the gums. This
trouble spreads and causes more com-
plicated trouble. By the wonderful work
of doctors of today, certain chemicals
have been discovered that aid in curing | Ellis, attached to the R. O. T. C. unit at
this trouble. jthe college. Captain Ellis was formerly

Malaria is found to be caused by a a star distance man for Alleghany Col-
plasmodium parasite and resides in the) lege (Pennsylvania). Under these two
red blood cells of the body. It is known and team Captain Knight, the wealth of
that only the female of one certain kind! promising new material is being whip-
of mosquito carries the malaria germ.'ped into shape to aid the five letter men
This germ prefers to reside in the spleen | who are back. |
of the body and causes high fever. The] This year it would seem that the Wild-|
important fact concerning malaria is!cats’ will be strongest in the distance |
that there has been found an almost;events. McBryde, who set a new college |
certain cure. The old way of handling|rccord for the two-mile last year when
malaria was giving a great amount of|only a Freshman, is in excellent form
quinine through the mouth to reduce the and is determined to lower his time an-
fever, bat now a much better system has|other notch or two. Either Sprunt or|
been found, that of injecting quinine| Roberts will be able to take ‘Care of the|
into the veins. mile, and Galloway, who lost State hon-

Intestinal parasite, more commonly}érs last year by less than a secgad, is in
known as hook worm, is a trouble that| good shape for the half-mile.

25 per cent of the people of India are| The loss of last year’s dash men is
affected with. It is a most horrible and| keenly felt. Several promising new men
loathsome disease, some patients having|are out for the speed events, though,
as many as 200 worms, between six andjand there is a chance that the Wildcats |
eight inches long, within the intestines.| may not be so lacking in them after all.|

Leprosy is a bacterial disease and not|Koenig, who starred last year for
parasitic. It is a very slow disease; that|Greensboro (N C.) High; Hoye, a 440
is, it is in the patient a great while be-|man recruited from Mississippi A, and
fore it can be pronounced as leprosy.| M.; Haye and Wyman seem to be the
Because of the wonderful work of great|most promising.
doctors, there has at last been found a] The field events are in the competent
cure. It is a fluid that is injected into| hands of McGukiny of last year’s team;
the veins and must be carefully done. |Gracey and Lake. Not so the hurdles,

His lecture was greatly enjoyed by .all| where the lack of good men is giving the
the members of the class and while the|coaches much concern; neither Craw-
work is not advanced as far as the study- ford nor Davis, the best men available, is
ing of diseases, it opens the way for|showing more than ordinary form. Team
students to look ahead and see what|Captain Knight, a big six-footer, and a
great work has been done and what still| veteran of more than one Wildcat track
is to be done. team, is fully capable of taking care of
the weight events.

The Athletic Council has announced
that this year a squad of 15 men will
represent the Wildcats at all foreign
meets. It has announced a_ schedule
that calls for four meets, only one of
which will be staged at Davidson; as fol-
lows:

April 8—V. P.I., at Blacksburg.

April 15—N. C. State, at Davidson

April 22—U. of S. C., at Columbia.

May 4—North Carolina State meet at
Durham.

DOCTOR GOHEEN ADDRESSES
MEN IN BIOLOGY COURSES

Coach Grey has cut Davidson’s 1922)
track team from about 50 to 30 men |
within the past week. Thus far field,
training has been much hampered by the |
prevalent rainy weather; so much so
that it was déemed inadvisable to enter |
a team in the big indoor meet at Dur- |
ham. However, with the brighter days |
of the past weck stiffer workouts have |
been possible, in consequence of which
the team is rapidly taking shape and}
should be in good trim for the first meet |
of the season, which fs with V. P. I., at/
Blacksburg, on the 8th of April.

Coach Grey, a weight man in his col-!
lege days, is being assisted by Captain

D:

SPECIAL PROGRAM WIIL BE
PRESENTED NEXT MEETING

Contrary to the usual custom the Phi
program began with an oration instead
of a debate last Thursday night.

J. W. Baldin in a flowery speech de-
scribed the beautiful scenery, the great
men, and the many opportunities for
young men in North Carolina. He led
the imaginations of his hearers fromthe
summits of the mountains to the plains
of the coast.

In the debate which followed, John-
ston, F. S., and Brown, W. P., were suc-
cessful in upholding the affirmative
against J. L. McLean and G. P. Hen-
drix. The: query was, Resolved: That
the present agreement between England
and Ireland is more desirable than total
Irish independence. The main point at
issue seemed to be whether or not Ire-
land could have real freedom while re-
maining in the British empire.

Gibson next gave that classic declama-
tion, “Casey at the Bat.”

The last number was an oration on
“Relations between France and Ger-
many,” by C. G. Brown. This was es-
pecially’interesting because he was able
to give arguments in proof of his points
from personal observation.

It was decided to have a special pro-
gram at the next meeting. No informa-
tion was given as to the nature of this
program since the president declared

D.
EUMENEANS ELECT
DEBATERS FOR MEET
WITH PANDEINICS

At the meeting of the Eumenean Lit-
crary Society last week, J. M. Richards,
W. T. Elliott, and A. M. Hillhouse were
selected to represent the Senior, Junior,
and Sophomore classes, respectively, in
the inter-socicty program to be held
next week between the Eumeneans and
the Pandeinics.

The feature of the program was the
orations; Biddle spoke on “Educating
the Red Man;” McGukin, “Commence-
ment ;” and Cooper, “Dawning.”

D.

Weekly meetings to study the prob-
lem of alcoholism are held at Queens
University, Belfast, Ireland. Similar
groups meet at the Universty of Basel,
Switzerland; the University of Brussels,
Belgium; the University of Tubingen,
Germany, and at universities in several
other European countries.

Columbia Theological Seminary
JOHN M. WELLS, President
Columbia, South Carolina

Columbia and Davidson have been close friends for nearly one hundred years. Many of
the studeats from our controlling pyaors attend Davidson. Some of Davidson's finest men have
finished their studies at this School of the Prophets.

Columbia Seminary invites candidates for the Ministry to a cheerful spiritual atmosphere.
Harmony and good-will permeate the entire Seminary organization.

The members of the Board of Directors from South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama and Florida
ae ecuve and ijaterested. We havea complete Faculty and a happy, hard-working, high-type

tudent ye

Fall ns September 20, 1922.
Necessar: y expenses about $150.
holarships awarded to worthy students.
ad for latest catalogue.

Sc
% Se

PAUL AND PAPLINE
in “A Dainty Aerial Oddity”

THE DAVIS TRIO
**The Sunshine Boys"

Wallace BRADLEY & Grette ARDINE
With John Irwing Fisher
in “Follies of Songs and Dance”

ACADEMY
Keith Vaudeville

PROGRAM

Thurs. Fri.,Sat., Mar. 28rd, 2{th, 25th.

B.
F.

.

Gertrude
MEEHAN & NEWMAN

in “Broken Promises”

OVERTURE

PATHE NEWS AND
HAROLD LLOYD

VAN AND BELLE 4
ia “Noah's Ark"

| | | ed

The Observer Printing House

Incorporated

Printing and Engraving

Observer Building

33 South Church
Street

B. R. Cates, \ anager Charlotte, NuG,

POLLYANNA CAFETERIA

Here you will find a real Old North State, smothered chicken din-
ner; vegetables and desserts cooked with that delicious flavor, peculiar
to real North Carolina cooks, served in home style. ~ :

Meal hours: Breakfast 7:30 to 9
Dinner 11:45 to 2:30
Supper 5:30 to 8
every day at reasonable prices

Miss Janie Matthews Miss Lottie Hart
New Central Hotel Second Floor —

PARKER-GARDNER ‘CO.

Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas
and Victor Records
We send records on approval. Write for special service plan

Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N. C,

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY
REGISTERED PHARMACISTS

We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery and
Toilet Articles

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

OF SPECIAL INTEREST TO COLLEGE MEN
New Models in Fall Suits

designed and fashioned by manufacturers who specialize in young men’s apparel
—fine garments built up to the exacting requirements demanded by this store.

An Unusual Display at
$35. 840545

Featuring the new 4-button sack model in novelty tweeds and crashes. Ideal college clothes

HATS FURNISHINGS SHOES

THE TATE-BROWN Co.

A Victrola In Your Home

Gives access to the best music in all the word pro-
duced by the Greatest Artists

Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet
Music and Everything in Music

ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.

213 N. Tryon St. Phone 3626 Charlotte, N. C.

TRY SOUTHERN LIFE SERVICE

Let our representative explain our famous thrift policies.
They have an appeal which you
can’t get away from.

Southern Life and Trust Company
‘WOME CONPANY GREENSBORO, N. C.

REPRESENTED IN CHARLOTTE BY
CHARLOTTE BRANCH OFFICE Bex 553 W. J. Spencer, Mgr.

A HOME BUILDER

