2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 7, 1922
; ] ‘ FOOTBALL TEAM ENJOYS (e ———— SK
CHONG’S LETTER DIXIE DOPE SEES iy GRRENOILLE | ——
; : i j Thanksgiving night, after the football ny e M e H E N. D R & m4
Davidson, N. C. Georgia Tech’s defeat of Auburn was the team had put up their good fight against
December 4, 1922. most noteworthy event of the last act of the Furman, they finished the season by having a
Dear Joe: Dixie football season. Tech had rocked] qojicious four-course dinner served to them

The grid season of 1922 has just closed as
far as the Wildcats are concerned with one
of the hardest fought and closest games of
football ever seen on any man’s field. The
Wildcats got beat Turkey Day, but they
played a great game and the Purple Hurri-
cane which thought that the Wildcats were
going to be easy meat had to blow their
fiercest gale to nose us out, 13-10. Thirteen
might be called the Hurricane’s lucky num-
ber in that Turkey Day battle. They scored
13. points which was just enough to nose
out the Wildcats. When they got the ball
and marched down the field for their second
touchdown, they carried the ball over on the
13th play! There wasn’t but 12 Furman
players got in the game, but Coach Billy
Laval was the 13th man and he counted most
of all so 13 had a lot to do with Furman
winning.

The Wildcats didn’t seem to have any spe-
cially lucky number, but they stuck in there
with ‘em all the time. ‘There was one curi-
ous thing about it, though. Nappy Davis
decided to start specializing on nabbing a 23-
yard pass for a touchdown, You know, Joe,
that the week before he carried the pigskin
over the Fetzer machine’s goal-line. That
pass was for 23 yards and a touchdown.
Against the Hurricane, Nappy pulled the
same stunt. The ball was reposing peace-
fully on the 23-yard line as in the previous
contest and for the second time in as many
games, the combination, Brice to Hendrix to

‘Davis, worked for a touchdown.

Captain Spratt specialized a little also on
receiving passes. His receipt of one of Gig’s
offerings went for 40 yards and from there
Gig’s toe did the work and three points were
chalked up for the Wildcats. Gig Shepherd
was the whole show at times. You've heard

- Mow’ in the Carolina-Davidson battle of last
year that “Red Johnson was Carolina.” Well,
the fellow that in speaking of this Thanks-
giving encounter, said that “Shepherd was
Davidson,” hadn’t missed the road very far.
If you saw Gig make a touchdown against
Carolina three years ago, you saw another
great game, but it wouldn't be going too far
to say you ought to have seen him Turkey
Day. That boy was twisting, sidestepping
and squirming his way through the Furman
defense and when he broke through, he
showed ’em all a clean pair of heels, His
dependable punting pulled the Wildcats out
of several holes and held off the pile-driv-
ing attack of the Baptists. His place-kick

THE

Central Cafeteria
“On the Square”

Entrance Next to
United Cigar Store
on Trade and Tryon

<

SU000RR000 RSS eR eee
= “EQUIPMENT for EVERY SPORT” ©

| SPORTING GOODS

Basketball, Tennis, Baseball &
goods. We sell the Spalding, &
Reach and Wright & Ditson &
goods. We have the exclusive
agency for A. G. Spalding &
Bros

¢

along through a schedule of second rate
Southern teams and had lost two intersec-
tional contests to Notre Dame and Navy.
Auburn had downed Centre, Georgia and
Tulane and was doped to be about the best in
the South, but then Tech comeés along and
knocks all her championship hopes sky high.

Georgia Tech, Vanderbilt and North
Carolina, therefore, are the three that have
a claim to the Southern championship.
Vandy, by virtue of victories over Texas,
Tennessee, Georgia and Kentucky, and a tie
with Michigan, seems to be the best of the
bunch. Vanderbilt also shows the best de-
fensive work, her opponents scoring only 16
points against her all season.

Alabama’s slaughter of Miss. A. & M.,
59-0, Centre’s romp-away from South Caro-
lina, 42-0, while V. P. I. and V. M. I. were
lighting to a 7-3 decision and Auburn- was
being beaten by Tech, makes the big points
score? look about as follows:

Alabama—300, opponents, 75.

Centre—296, opponents, 52.

V. M. 1.—291, opponents, 23,

Auburn—283, opponents, 49,

V. P. I.—262, opponents, 38,

Furman—242, opponents, 75.

Of course, Kings College leads them all

with 498 points, but then King didn’t exactly
play the same kind of schedule that the
others did.

Clear titles to the State championship seem

to fall in the following States to:

North Carolina—University of North

Carolina,

Virginia—V. P. I.

Maryland—University of Maryland.
Tennessee—Vanderbilt.
Kentucky—Centre.

Florida—University of Florida.

In South Carolina, the fact that Clemson

beat South Carolina who heat Furman, who

in turn beat Clemson, ties things up con-
siderably, but the University has the best of
the points in the triangle. South Carolina
made 27 to 10 for her two rivals, Furman

scored 27 to her opponents 33, and Clemson
got the short end of a9 to 20 bargain. In
Georgia, the fact that Tech beat the Uni-
versity of Alabama and Auburn who both
beat Georgia, seems to give the State cham-
pionship to Tech, but goodness knows what
would happen if the two played it off. In
Alabama the only basis of comparison is the
fact that Tech beat Alabama worse than she
beat Auburn, but after all, comparative
scores don’t count. For instance, glance at
the following circles. Who would have
ever thought that Nebraska would beat
Notre Dame and yet they did.

Syracuse beat Nebraska, 9-6.

Penn State beat Syracuse, 21-14.

Navy beat Penn State, 14-0.

Pennsylvania beat Navy, 13-7.

Alabama beat Pennsylvania, 9-7.

Ga. Tech beat Alabania, 33-7.

Notre Dame beat Tech, 13-3.

And after all of that with about 70 points
of comparative scores against her Nebraska
beat Notre Dame easily, 13-7. Hence! vain,
deluding comparative scores, until next year.

at the Imperial Hotel. It was an informal
affair, but the team thoroughly enjoyed it be-
cause of the fact that they were off training
and that their work of the season was ended.
The menu was that of a regular Thanksgiv-
ing dinner, Places were arranged for 21
men. Among those present were Dr. J. M.
Douglas, Prof. W. W. Wood, Coach Grey,
Coach Foster and. Mr. Jack Black, an
alumnus,

D
THREE MOVIES FEATURE
LAST WEEK’S PROGRAM

There were three picture shows run last
week for those who were not fortunate
enough to be able to spend the holidays off
the hill. The first of these, “The Face in
the Fog,” was a continual brawl from be-
ginning to end, featuring Lionel Barrymore
and Seena Owen.

The second, which was shown Friday
night was “The Young Rajah,” featuring
Rodolph Valentino, Wanda Hawley and
Charles Ogle. ‘The late John Ames Mitch-
ell, who founded and controled “Life” for
many years wrote a novel which he called
“Amos ‘Judd.” This novel was twisted
around, cut up and patched up until the de-
sired result, “The Young Rajah,” was pro-
duced. It. was so badly mangled that the
picture has very little likeness to the novel.
Although Valentino has a good part he ad-
mits that it is one of the causes of his row
with the Paramount people. Judging this
picture by.the novel from which it sprung,
one would have to admit that it is a ludicous
attempt at adapting a novel. However,
judging iz merely by its merits as a picture,
one might say ‘that it is an interesting pro-
duction, and in parts quite exciting. Val-
.entino is up to his usual standard in this pro-
duction, In fact his acting in this picture
is excelled only by that in “Blood and Sand.”

The third picture, “Thirty Days,” was
shown Saturday night. This picture is
slightly different from most of Wallace
Reid’s productions in that he is not so bold
and is more timid than usual. The plot is
fair and the picture is quite amusing.

D.

LIBRARY NEWS

Since the Davidson student body will have
the privilege of hearing Doctor Grenfell in
the early spring, the following books con-
cerning him will be of interest:

Adrift on an Ice Pan.

Down North on the Labrador.

Down to the Sea.

Harvest of the Sea.

Labrador.

Grenfell of Labrador.

A Labrador Doctor.

In the New York Times, Theodore Ains-

worth Green, of a committee to perpetuate
the wonderful work of Doctor Grenfell,

made the following statement:
“The field of Doctor Grenfell’s work in-

reminds me of a game last year when his
toe was a big factor when State College held
us to a tie. We tried for three field goals
and State tried for one, but each side put
across one successful attempt and Gig’s toe
put across the three points that tied em.

It was a great game from every angle ex-
cept the score and of course Furman beating
us three years straight makes all of us long
for the time when the Wildcats can stop the
Cyclone and turn the Hurricane into a gentle
breeze. The team came nearer doing this
than they have in three years, and next sea-
son ought to see the spell of the Hurricane
broken.

The Sophs came off with colors flying in.
the_class_contests—without—losing—a—single
time. 210 points to 70 in six games is their
record for the season. Thursday night they
tackle the Charlotte “Y” quint-in Charlotte
and will have a hard time keeping up their
perfect record for the season.

Its time to get down to Varsity Basketball
now, and the Gym floor will be the scene of

back and lots of new material, -20-look out_|
Trinity 1111! ee EN i

©

Oem, ok

many a hard scrimmage before the Wildcats | §
Play their first game. Five letter men are|§  ~

ludes the northern peninsular of New-
foundland, comprising the districts of Green
Bay and St. Barbe, with a resident popula-
tion of some 47,000 people, consisting mainly
of the descendants of English, Scotch and
French pioneers, who went there for the
fishing; also the Canadian Labrador, com-
prising a stretch of nearly 300 miles of coast
from Natashquan to Blanc Sablon, in the
Straits of Belle Isle, northward on Labrador
(controlled by the .Newfoundland govern-
ment) to Cape Chidley, where there is a
population of some 3,000 or more, made up
of the descendants of English and Scotch
fishermen, together with soma Eskimos and
Indians, ji

“During the summer months the popula-
-tion-of the-Labrador is-increased- by thou-
sands of fishermen and their families who
live on their schooners’‘during the fishing
season, and are mainly \ Newfoundlanders,
Canadians, French and Americans.”

WE’LL TELL YOU MO

experience behind every pair:

“THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES”

GREENSBORO, N. C.

|

P. S—Our Shoes are built to a high standard of -
quality, then fairly priced. Thirty-five years of practical

RE ABOUT IT LATER

a:

Cie

me

SOPHOMORES CHAMPIONS
IN CLASS BASKETBALL

The class basketball season closed on the
28th of November with the Sophs having au
undisputed claim to the championship. The
Juniors and Seniors were tied for second,
while the Fresh trailed the upper classmen in
cvery game. Four games were played off
in cne week to close the season before Senior
speaking.

The Seniors defeated the Freshmen, 33-20
in the first contest; showing a form that they
had failed to display earlier in the season.
At no time did the Freshmen prove danger
ous opponents and Bostick and Toney kept
their team in the lead at all times.

The Sophs gained the championship by de-
feating the Seniors, 39-22, in a fast and well-
played exhibition of the court game. It
was the fastest game of the year and one of
the most interesting from the spectators
standpoint, Mitchell and Anderson, with 13
field goals, were the main factors in the
Soph victory.

On Saturday night the Sophs closed the
season undefeated, by winning from the
Juniors, 35-13, The Sophs took the lead
from the start and were never headed, al-
though Elkins played the game of his life.
Mitchell and Boggs starred for the Sophs,
while Elkins played the whole game for the
Juniors.

The Junior-Fresh contest which went to
the upperclassmen, 22-16, rang down the
curtain on the season of 1922, The Fresh
threw a scare into the Junior camp and led,
12-9, at the intermission, When Elkins,
Price and McBryde entered the game the
Juniors braced and won handily, 22-16,

D.

CROSS COUNTRY TEAM

The cross country run preliminary was
held Tuesday, the 28th, resulting in the se-
lection of Davidson's team. The day was not
ideal for the run, and the records made in
this preliminary trial can be easily improved
upon. Seven men started out in the race, but
only two completed the entire distance. A
M. McBryde was the leading man, finishing
in 17 minutes, 20 seconds, followed by J. M,
Selser, who completed the course in 17
minutes, 50 seconds.

Both of these men can do a great deal
better, the ground being wet on me day of
the preliminary. The remaining five were
unable to finish probably because they started
out too fast. The other two men who will
compose the team are Galloway and Willi-
ford, who were both confined by illness at
the time of the preliminary. Due to the
Splendid showing these two have made in
their training: they will be members of the
funning quartet. ;

The State competition cross country run
will be staged at Chapel Hill, Saturday, De-
cember 9th. This is the first run of this

B | nature-beld inthis State,-the idea originat-

t

‘
Mt

CHOSEN AT TIME TRIAL|}

ing last year. and meeting with the im-
mediate and hearty approval of the colleges.
Prospects for a Davidson victory would be
exceptionally good if all the men were in
shape for the contest. Galloway has been
hampered by a severe cold, while Williford
was still confined in the infirmary last Mon-
day. ‘There is a strong possibility, however,
that should these two men be able to round
into shape that Davidson will come out with
first honors, -

McBryde looms up as probably the best
cog in the fleet-footed machine. He holds
the colege record for the two-mile run,
which he was able to cop in his Freshman
year. Galloway is known to possess ability
to cover the course in quick order, while
Selser and Williford, new men at Davidson,
have jbeen training consistently and have
shown splendid qualities as runners.

Compliments of

M. C. BRADLEY
BARBER SHOP
6 East Trade Street

Our Removal
Sale Is Now
Going On

25 Per Cent
to
50 Per Cent
Reduction on all Suits and
Overcoats

We Will Move January 1st
to 27 N. Tryon St.

