THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 10, 1922.

LITERARY NEWS

MAGAZINE TO ATTEMPT ITS
FIRST HUMOROUS EDITION

For the first time in the history of
Davidson College, the Davidson College
Magazine will be almost entirely de-
voted to humor. This is, in one respect,
an experiment, while on the other hand,
if it is a success, it is hoped that the
staff will put out two or three humorous
issues every year, as do the Georgia
Cracker and other magazines. In the
March, or Junior. Speaking issue, an
appeal will be made for men to wfite
for the magazine. The staff desires
that the magazine be as representative
of the college as possible, and to carry
out this policy every man who has any
literary ability is asked to ‘hand in
articles.

As the next issue is to be humorous it
is asked that any men having jokes, or
-humorous short stories hand them in;
however, short book reviews on latest
books, Forum articles influencing, stu-
dent opinion, short essays on subjects of
general interest and verse, will be glad-
ly received.

The magazine represents the college
to strangers and is just what the stu-
dents make it. So every student is urged
to get busy and make it the best mag-
azine in the South.

The management states that the Feb-
riary issue will be out in about a week.
D.

JUNIORS BEGIN PLANS FOR
SPRING JUNIOR SPEAKING

The date of Junior Speaking has been
set this year as March 22d, and extensive
plans are already underway to make this
occasion the best in the
Davidson.

The preliminary speeches are to be
held in about ten days and at that time
four literary societies will be chosen to
deliver their orations at Junior Speak-
ing proper. Four men will then be
selected by competent judges to speak
at Commencement.

history of

The near approach
of the preliminaries is acting as an ad-
ded incentive to every Junior to get
down to some real hard work in order
that he may better cope with his class-
mates in the clash for oratorical honors.

The Junior class, under the leader-
ship of S. M. Davis, is making elaborate
plans for the social side of the event and
arrangements are being made to enter-
tain an unprecedented number of visitors,
Preparations for various social activi-
ties are underway, which will aid mate-
rially in making Junior Speaking the
brightest spot in the entire year’s work.
=)

DAVIDSON LIBRARY TO AID
IN HIGH SCHOOL DEBATING

The Library has received no new books
this week but there is one announce-
ment’ to be made which should prove
especially interesting to high school de-
baters.

The Librarian has collected material
on.the state wide query: Resolved, That
the United States should enter the
League of Nations.

For the benefit of those inter-school
teams near enough to Davidson to
spend a day on the campus, a room has
been provided where they can study the
question and read the material collected,
Put, as only one room can be provided,
‘any group of students wishing to come
should communicate with Miss: Cornelia
Shaw three or four days in advance, so
that the material and room may be re-
served for their use and the team notified
in regard to it.

These young debaters are cordially

welcomed to the Library.
D

EUMENEANS ELECT OFFICERS
FOR THIRD TERM OF SEASON

The Eumenean Society selected Rol-
ston Bitzer for its president for the
coming term at the regular election on
last Thursday. The usual program was
omitted for the business’ of electing offi-
cers. After J. M. Richards had assisted
the president in the devotional exercises,
nominations were in order for president.
Nearly all of the Senior class were
nominated, but Bitzer proved to be the
strongest candidate.

The race fpr vice-president was not so

general, but two ballots being necessary
before T, L. Fraser was elected.

For secretary, Jones, R. R., and Jones,
W. T., were in the second race. Cries
cf “Vote for Jones” were heard from
different parts of the house, and as a
result R. R. Jones was elected new sec-
retary.

The race for reviewer was another
close one, Mahood being finally. elected.

At each commencement a Valedictorian
of the Senior class from each society
speaks and is answered by a Respondent
from the Junior class. P. D. Miller was
elected Valedictorian and D. H. Ogden,
Respondent.

METROPHILIAN SOCIETY MEN
ARGUE STUDENT COURT PLAN

D
“500 Again—Quality First !”
——D

At the last meeting of the Metro-
philian Literary Society, the subject for
discussion was, “Resolved, That there
should be a student supreme court at
Davidson College, to which all appeals
wer the student council should be made.”
G. N. Neel and J. D. Bernhardt showed
that there is sufficient need for a higher
student assembly to creditably make use
of some such body as a student supreme
court. Yhe negative, upheld by F. W.
Smith and M. C. Dew, declared that such
bedies have not yet proved successful.

Following the debates a declamation
was given by J. D, Brown, and an oration
by W. K. McCain,

The motto committee presented the
following mottoes for selection: “Pre-
pared for all things ;” “Equal to the bur-
den” and others. The  s6ciety finally
chose “Through difficulties worthy of
honor,” to be the new motto.

D.
PANDEINIC SOCIETY ELECTS

CHEF McALPINE TREASURER

The Pandeinic Literary Society mect-
ing of February 2d, was both interesting
and unusual in several respects. To avoid
monotony the usual order of the pro-
gram was varied, the oration coming
first, followed by the debate and decla-
mation,

The first speaker of the evening was
John McLaughlin who gave an oration
on Lloyd George, presenting effectively
those qualities which elevated the great
statesman from his simple Welsh home
to his lofty position of leadership.

The subject for debate was, Resolved,
That the United States Senate should
ratify the Four-Power Treaty. E. E.
Houghton, first speaker for the affirma-
tive, showed what would be the beneficial
effects of this ratification, should it be
carried out. A. P, Hudgins, opening for
the negative, brought out many forceful
arguments for his side. ‘G. M. Ford, for
the affirmative, pointed out that it would
tend towards a settlement of world
issues; whereas J. M. McFadden stated
the dangers of alliances. The negative
won by a close vote’of the,house.

The most amusing and entertaining
event of the evening was C. T. Wildman’s
declamation of the negro selection, “The
Harp of a Thousand Strings.”

The election of the society treasurer
then took place, and Paul Hamilton Mc-
Alpine was chosen by acclamation.

As the last item of the program, it was
decided that the number of Freshmen
admitted into the society should be 20,
and that the initiation of these Fresh-
men should take place in the meeting of
February oth.

D.

PHI DEBATERS DISCUSS THE
FOUR-POWER TREATY HOTLY

The Phi meeting of last Thursday night
was unusually live, showing that ex-
aminations did-not take as much life out
of things as might have been expected.

Strange as it'may seem the subject,
Resolved, That the United States Senate
should ratify the Four-Power Treaty,
attracted a good bit of interest.

The affirmative was upheld by Russell
and McIver, who had as their opponents
Clark and Freeman. The last named of
the negative served in-place of Kimsey,
who was absent.

McGeachy and Knight gave orations
that deserved and received hearty ap-
plause. The orations were clever and
showed a great deal of originality on the

part of the orators.

QUIPS AND CRANKS DESIRES
HELP OF SEVERAL GOOD MEN

The 1922 Quips and Cranks will be here
about the middle of May, as near as can
be determined at present. Practically
all the material will be in the hands of
the publishers within the next ten days.
The engravings have all gone in and the
literary work-is-completed-with the ex-
ception of the basketball and debating
sections, which will have to be held up
until the results of the season can be de-
termined.

A few snapshots, of a more or less
comical nature are still needed and any-
one who possesses any such pictures can
turn them in to R. K. Shaw at 28 Rumple.
Volunteers are also needed to do some
typewritten copy work and those who
can operate a typewriter and who are
willing to help should notify R. K. Shaw
or D. L. Mahood. :

D.

MAJ. JNO. E. ARDREY MAKES
INSPECTION OF R. O. T. C. UNIT

Major John E. Ardrey .inspected the
Davidson R. O. T. C. unit this week. He
arrived on the hill Saturday and visited
the Sophomores and Seniors at their
theoretical work. As no R. O. T. C.
classes are held on Monday, he inspected
another college on that day and finished
his inspection here on Tuesday by ob-
serving the work of the Freshmen.

Major Ardrey is a native of North
Carolina and was a member of the same
company at West Point as Major Hearn,
graduating two years before the Major.
Since his graduation, Major Ardrey has
erved in the main with the 18th Infantry,

‘}on the Mexican border.

Major Ardrey was very favorably im-
pressed -with the appearance of the
Armory and the Military Laboratory at
the Gym. Beyond that, it is too soon to
make any definite statement as to the
results of the inspection.

This month the Military Department
intends to stress rifle firing, especially
gallery practice. The rifle competitions
in the Fourth Corps Area will be held
carly this month, and at least two in-
ter-collegiate shooting matches will be
held next month with Georgia Tech and
Northwestern, °

The teams 'to represent the college in
these matches will be picked by inter-
company competition in which the
sponsors are to be honorary members of
the teams. The contract with North-
western provides that all the members
of the team to shoot that match must be
Freshmen, so great interest is expected
among members of the class.

D.

PAT CRAWFORD

(Continued from page 1) ;
During his Freshman year at David-

son he made his name in basketball,
making all the trips, though not having
the fortune to be awarded a letter. In
baseball, though, he won the coveted “D”
for the first time, playing in the outfield.
In his Soph year Pat was one of the
star basketball guards of the state, find-
ing a fit running mate in Louis Schenck.
In baseball he was shifted to first base,
where he ‘will probably be found this
year.

Pat is popular on the athletic field and
on the campus generally, in both of
which places he is known as a Christian
gentleman.

D.
CUNNINGHAM AND OGDEN GO
TO WINSTON FROM LOCAL “Y”

Ed Cunningham and D. H. Ogden made
a trip to Winston-Salem Saturday on a
Y. M C. A. deputation. They spoke to
the celebrated Home Moravian Church,
talking to a large class of boys at the
morning Sunday School hour and to the
regular congregation, together with
various Christian Endeavor organiza-
tions, at the evening service.

Cunningham spoke on Life Service,
making a very strong appeal for service
in the foreign fields. Ogden spoke on
Young People and the Church, basing
his talk on the second great command-
ment, “Thou shalt love the Lord thy God
with all thy heart and with all thy soul,
and with all thy mind, and thy neighbor
as thyself.”

Every courtesy was extended to these
men and they were delightfully enter-
tained during the week-end, especially
by Doctor Pfohl, pastor of the church,
who showed them many unique and in-
teresting articles which are used in con-
nection with the beautiful Easter serv-

ices.

ATHLETIC NEWS

Court Gossip

Charlotte “Y,” Wofford and N. C.
State have in turn tried the Wildcat’s
mettle and all have tasted of the gall of
defeat. Run ’em ragged, Wildcats !

The team left Tuesday on the North
Carolina trip that is. to supply the
ancient acid test. A Davidson basket-
ball team has not beaten a North Caro-
lina team away from home in two years.
For three years we have been tongue-
tied as it were. Watch us chirp this
year.

~

Foch is the only bird known to his-
tory that ever handled more fighters than
Coach Dutch.

This Wofford team is a bird for its
size, while the State crew is a bear in its
own right, but they aren’t the whole
menagerie. This Wildcat bunch fights
with the heart of a lion, the gameness of
an airdale, the tenacity of a bulldog and
the speed of a gazelle.

If anyone can march out a “fightinger”
lad than Pat Crawford he can collect the
gate receipts at the next Shearer Hall
lecture. This wearer of the non-skid
slippers is about the niftiest player we've
seen in this neck of the woods.

Old Warhoss Mauze is still going
strong. This boy, pulled down sixteen
chunks in the Wofford game and added
another half-dozen in the State en-
counter. Groome, lightly touted for All-
State honors, didn’t have a thing on our
“not-so-expensive” tip-off man. He and
Cap Pat still have their little passing
game that rivals Connie Mack’s pitchers.

The cold clammy dope shows that the
coming grapple between the Red and
Black and Trinity will be a record break-
ing broad jump-in the direction of Who's

Who in North Carolina Basketball
circles.
Watch Beall!!

Davis again showed his worth as a
guard. Nappy cut in with séveral classy
plays and often brought the crowd to
their feet by his. sensational work. He
also started the Wildcats off right by
banging up a field goal that was a dandy.

The weather man is “saying it——with
showers.”

Mallory is another Freshman that is
showing up well. He still has much to
learn about college ball but he has
plenty of speed and handles the ball
well.

Basketball at Davidson is like the
back side of Dick Richard’s lap—it has
outgrown its seating capacity.

D.

“300 Again—Quality First!”
: D.

TRINITY AND DAVIDSON ARE
TO WRESTLE HERE FEB. 18TH

Davidson followers of the mat game
will be given their first opportunity to
witness an intercollegiate match on the
r&th of this month when the strong
Trinity aggregation journeys down from
Bulltown to meet the tricky Wildcat
grapplers in their own lair. Although

this is the second year. Davidson has
had a wrestling team, her supporters
have not seen it in action as last season
all the matches were off the hifl.

The team is being rounded into shape
by Coach Harry Bangle, of Charlotte and
under the management of Cromartie is
preparing for a banner season. The Red
and Black scrappers are expecting a fast
match, with the fiercest type of opposi-
tion from the Methodists, but are con-
fident of winning in the majority of the
seven weight classes.

In addition tg the Trinity scrap.
matches: with Washington and Lee and
V. M. I. at Lexington on the third and
fourth of March are pending and also a
contest with the University of South
Carolina Gamecocks. Last year the Pres-
byterians were overwhelmingly defeated
by Washington and Lee and V. M. I. and
are out to make a better showing this
year.

Wrestling ‘is in its infancy-in Southern
intercollegiate circles but is fast gaining
popularity. This’ branch of sport de-
serves the support of every man on the
hill and everyone who is able should
come out and at least make the better
man work hard for his position on the
team. :

The contestants for the heavyweight,
above 175 pound class are Montague
Clarke and Beef Hinton who have now
trained down to condition for the meet.
In the 162-175 pound class Henry White
and Red McComb are working for a
place on the team. Among the 145-162
pound grapplers Kelly Tucker and Nor-
man Patterson are having a tough scrap
for the honors,

Red Smith and Pat Kimsey are the en-
trants in the 135-145 pound class. Bevo
Davis has very little competition in the
125-135 pound class, while Cramartie will
represent the Wildcats in the 115-125
pound class. Noone is out in the 105-
115 pound class.and entrants are needed
for the class.

; D
“300, Again—Quality First !”
D.

WILDCATS LOSE TO TRINITY
IN HARD BATTLE AT DURHAM

' Tuesday evening the Wildcat goal-
tossers went down in their first defeat
of the season before the drive of the
Trinity “‘basketeers by a score of 24-18.
The old D. C. fight and pep was in evi-
dence and the Methodists found out that
the Wildcats had a team before the
game was over. The Blue and White
received a great shock and things looked
pretty dark for the up-staters until three
fiercely scrapping members of the un-
domesticated feline had been ejected
from the game.
_ Davidson was the first to score and at
the end of the first half was leading the
Methodists 9-5. In the second half the
Presbyterians battled the Blue and
White to the end but their very eager-
ness hurt their chances, as Beall, Mauze
and Price were banished from the game
for personal fouls. The score was tied
many times throughout this half, but the
inability of the Wildkittens to-ring up
scores was fatal. ;
Crute, of Trinity, led the scorers with
4 field goals and 4 goals out of 11 free
tosses. Captain Pat Crawford, playing
at guard and ‘center, starred for the Red
and Black, garnering 3 baskets from diffi--
cult angles and ringing up two foul goals
for.a total of 8 points. Warhoss mauze
(Continued on page 5)

LET US INVEST YOUR FUNDS JIN FIRST MORTGAGE LOANS
at six per cent. We guarantee title, principal and interest.

SOUTHERN REAL ESTAE, LOAN & TRUST CO.

W. S. ALEXANDER, Pres.

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Basketball, Tennis,
& Ditson goods.

18 E. Trade St.

EQUIPMENT FOR EVERY SPORT

SPORTING GOODS

Baseball goods. We sell the Spalding, Reach and Wright
We have the exclusive agency for A. G. Spalding & Bros.

RACKETS RESTRUNG BY AN EXPERT

Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.

ALL, Faul, Mgr.

Phone 902

