Mareh
Eighth-
Twelfth

THEDAVI

Beat
Wake
Forest!

SONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.. FEBRUARY 24. 1922.

No. 21

Vol. IX.
+ .|DELTA THETA CHI SOCIAL __
State Y. M. C. A. Meeting Fraternity 18 ORGANIZED

Is Held in Greensboro | |

The formal announcement of the or-!
|ganization of Delta Theta Chi local fra-

Johh W. Pontius,.General Secretary, |
Is Chief. Speaker. |

ternity of Davidson College was made}

llast week when it received the recogni: |

: a) }tion and approval of the faculty. A tem-!|

The N ; i Y. M. C. A. held | rn a

The North Caroling mG \ | porary hall has been secured in the resi-|

its 5 p eeting a reensboro 7 S ;

i sida ee WO 3 dence of Mrs. Brown, on South Main |
on February 14th and 15th. lenent
\s

x ‘ Plans are already under way for|
At this meeting eight schools were)

; ; }the establishment of a permanent chap-!}
represented, a delegation of 26 men be- |
ing present. The principal speakers
were Dr. H. E. Rondthaler, preside
Salem College, who atfo acted as chair-

man of, the eae and es W. The charter members of the fraternity
) ius Ne secretary, 1- if

Pontius, general secretary, o olutn Areas follower |
bus, O. J. W. Phillips, ’22; S. D. Story, '22;]

The conference proper began on Tues-
day at 2:15 p.m. The song service which
opened every session of the conference
was led by Seth Perkinson, of Asheville.
Dr. Rondthaler then conducted ,the de-
votional exercises. After a business ses-
sion an made by H. C.
Snead, general secretary, of Lynchburg.
Va. His subject was, “Association Ac-
tivities—How Organized and Conducted.”
After another address by Mr. Pontius,
the meécting retired from the O. Henry
Hotel to the Y. M. C. A. building, where
the delegates were treated royally at a
banquet. Remaining in this building, the
meeting was continued and an address
was given by Charles R. Towson, inter-
national secretary, New York.

address was

The meeting opened Wednesday morn-
ing at 9 o’clock. Following the devo-
tional exercises, the report of the com=-
mittee on the state committee’s report
was heard. Another address was then
delivered by Mr. Pontius, and R. H.
King, executive secretary, Southern Re-
gion, made the closing message. The
meeting was adjourned and the student
conference began with Dwight Chalmers
as chairman.

The student conference first had a gen-
eral discussion of the work in the col-

G. N. Neel, 22 (pledged); J. W. Baldwin,
ey a Nie Bani egh hun TOWN eon
W. S. Buchanan, '23; H. S. McCallum,
"23; J. B. Sloan, '23; S. R. Sloan, '23; H.
He Wyman, ’23; J. V. Hickson, ’24; Paul
Price, '24; W.E. Prothro, ’24; P. J. Story,
'24; C. A. Young, ’24.

D.

Le Cercle Francais Plans

Again For French Lecture

Eight New Men Taken Into French
Circle.

On the night of Friday, February 17,
Le Cercle Francais met jin the Gamma
Sigma Epsilon room, and initiated cight
new members into the organization

The new men readily adapted them-
selves to the situation, and burst forth
on various subjects in the “most beauti-
ful and expressive of all languages,” as
J. T Smith French. R.
Doubles gave an interesting discussion
on Frederic Barat, while J. W. Simpson
made an eloquent impromptu speech.

Paul Price recited a poem, which was
received with applause. J. B.
and WeZ. Bradford furnished the

characterized

Roberts

hu-

lege “Y’s” in the state. From this dis-|orous part of the program, consisting
cussion it was found that the “Y” is|of a series of spicy jokes. James Me-
making commendable progress in the|Cutcheon and L. H. Roberts were alse
colleges. among those initiated and contributed

After a special luncheon, Harry F,|t® the program with short French selec-
Comer, of Carolina, outlined the ele-|"O"S: j aa 5
ments af anlaveragecY program: B.S The circle discussed the plausibility of

hing, of N. C. State, then spoke on “Or-
ganization for Bible Study.” Deputation
work was next discussed by Comer. This
was one of the strongest points stressed
by the conference. The importance of
attendance at the Blue Ridge conference
was pointed out by King and strong
delegations wer planned.

Dr. Lindeman, who has recently spent
three months in Europe, made a strong
appeal on “European Student Relief.”

Dr. Rondthaler made the closing ad-
dress, taking as his subject, “Opportuni-
ties for Service.” He stated that the
outlook for the ensuing year is bright.

Delegates from Davidson: Dwight

(Continued on page 6)

THE WILDCAT SCREAMS

You deserve your
‘Boys, let’s pass those re-exams

rest, basketeers!

having another lecturer visit Davidson
this spring in the same capacity as M.
last

Villemin, who proved such a success
year. Instead of getting the
regular lecturers of Alliance Francais,
the circle decided to try to secure the
services of the French pastor at Valdeis
tor the occasion.

one of

Professor Currie Speaks
at “Y” on Hunting Theme

Things Really Worth Hunting for
Are Discussed.

Prof. A. Currie addressed the Y. M.
C. A. last Sunday on the subject, “The
Hunter’s Mistake,” Basing his talk on
dsa. xliv:14-19, it was conclusively shown
that today men are making the same
mistake made by the old hunter referred
to by Isaiah. His address was very in-
teresting and_helpful.

A vivid picture of Isaiah’s hunter was
first given. “After roaming the woods
for a daywin search of game, a nightfall
he hewed down a tree, built a fire with
its branches, and warmed himself. He
roasted some of his game, ate, and was
satisfied. But this glow of massive sat-
isfaction soon faded. It a tem-
porary thing. Upon the approach of
scme wild beast or some other impend-
ing calamity, this heathen hunter hastily
carved the image of a man of the residue
of the tree and fell down and worshipped

(Continued on page 6)

was

{ter hall on the campus, and it is hoped)!
Ithat by the beginning of the next term
nt ot} .
|!
| cupaney.

t will be completed and ready for oc-)

Wildcats Win and Lose in
Two Local Court Battles

Defeat Elon 53-25 and Lose to Guil-
ford 45-26.
Elon Game.

Playing their first home game in ten
days, the Wildcats displayed the best
form of the season Wednesday evening
and took the 34-30 defeat
of the pervious week at the hands of
Elon by capturing the long end of a 53-25

|
jseore,

revenge for

AN large crowd saw the Wildeats
the [lon College

'
lads and take home the bacon by as

re-

}venge themselves on

;one-sided a score as the much touted

The Architct’s Idea of What Our

Contractors Preparing to
Start Work on Dormitory

New Central Heating Plant to Fur-
nish Warmth.

Representatives from the Blythe and
Isenhour Contracting Company were on
the’ campus during the past week sur-
veying the ground preparatory to start-
ing the work on the foundations for the
new dormitory. Since securing the con-
tract about two weeks ago this company
thas been busy obtaining quotations on
awarding contracts for
stone, brick, and
materials to be used in the construction.

and crushed

cement, steel, other

When interviewed Mr. Blythe gave as-
surance that the dormitory he
completed before the first of next Sep-

would

tember and would be ready for occu-
paney when the 1922-23 session of col-
lege opens.

To accommodate the new dormitory a
new central heating plant will have to
be built this summer,
that plans looking to this end would be
recommended to the trustees at their
necting last Wednesday. Representa-
tives of the Warren-Webster Con:pany
were recently on the campus securing
that will enable them to
draw plans and make suggestions for a
new heating plant to provide for the im-
mediate needs as well as for all
posed buildings.

The new dormitory will be modeled
along the latest designs for college build-
ings and will differ somewhat from any
now on the campus. It is to bea fire-proof
brick building four in height,
with a basement in addition. he only
wood ‘that will be used in the construc-
tion .of this building will
making the floors, doors, and
The front will resemble the old
that

The prospect was

information

pro-

stories

be used in
window
frames.
Chambers building to the exteiut
four columns will support the roof,

This new dormitory will be
than any building now on the campus
Tt will contain over 70 rooms, accomino
dating 118 students. It is to built
directly cast of Georgia Dormitory and
will add a great deal to the attractive-
ness of dormitory row and to the im-
pressiveness of the campus as a whole,

National Meet of 0. D. K.
Is Held in Pittsburg

J. C. Bailey Represents Local Chap-
ter.

larger

be

The national conventign of the Omi-
cron Delta Kappa honorary fraternity
was held with the Gamma Circle at the
University of Pittsburg on February 15.
John C. Bailey was the Davidson repre-

lay ; :

| University team piled up the week be-

tore,

Hengeveld’s “Poison
the in every -way.

'

e e re + : .

Junior Class Is Preparin j) Their tlashy passing and floorwork com-
3 s {pletely bewildered the Elonites and their

For Record In Speaking | shooting Was practically perfect.
The visitors took the lead when Fix
Orations, Plays, Baseball, and Social | (ropped a neat shot into the basket for
Life Arranged. | the first score of the game, but the Wild-
jeats held the honors during the next

New Dormitory Will Look Like.
SE eters uw Squad”

| outclassed

|
| Coach
| visitors

The committee on Junior Speaking, | few minutes and ran the score up to
under the leadership of S. Mo Davis, has|tt-2. Here Captain Pat set 25 field goals
almost completed the the limit.
coming The has{|ran true
petitioned the faculty to change the date) basket,
from March 21-24 to Mareh 2g-27, but
this matter is, as yet, unsettled.

Onwthe first night the Dramatic Club | count,
will entertain, Three one-act plays will) The Presbyterians swept the Elon lads
be given, “Miss Civilization,” by Rich-| off their feet during the second half,
ard Harding Davis, will be presented by |ringing up 26 points to the visitors’ 4.
the class of "25; “The Boor,” by Tehik- |The sent
hoff, will be the product of ’24; while | E1Shites added 8 more points.
’22 will give “The Zone Police,” also by
Richard Harding Davis. 5

On the next afternoon and night-dthe
Junior orations will be given, All the
Juniors are to speak in the preliminaries
March 13, 14, 15. On this
night, too, the Junior class will give an
entertainment in the gym,

program for as a The Red and Black quint
form and 20 in the
The Wildeats kept up the fast
| pace during the initial period and at the

J intermission

speaking, committee to tossed

were leading by a

27-13

serubs were then in and the

The visitors were unable to solve the
Wildeats’ five-man the
iocals shot almost at will, Fix and New-

man starred for the losers, each tossing

defense, while

in 3 goals.
to be held on The Crawford-Mauze-Ormond combi-
nation was working like a house atire,
these three piling up 43 of the Wild-
Two baseball games will lend an add-] cats’ points. rf

ed attraction, while the general recep-

Pat's shooting cye was at
its best and his five long shots.added to

tion is always enjoyed by everybody, | points to the Red and Black score, Curtis
This will be on a different order from|Ormond also rang up to points for the
the customary one. All the fraternity |locals and did some stellar work on the

halls are to be thrown open to faculty,
student

floor, Warhoss was high paint man for
jthe evening with 11 field goals and one
} foul shot
tetal. Beall and Mallory made several
shots from difficult angles, while Price
land Davis guarded their men like leeches.

body and visitors. Everybody

will be welcome at every hall. to his credit for a 23-point

This promises to be one of the best
speakings ever held at Davidson. All
that is necessary to make it a complete

success is an abundance of girls. Let | Davidson (53) Position. Elon (25)
everybody ask at least one girl and then |Ormond (ie) [Ril Sees pee cee IFix (6)
nobody will be lonesome, and this is| IRGaNIR(2) pee eee es nance ee Newman (0)
sure to be the best speaking held in| Mauze (23) --------C_-------- Brown (0)

years. | Crawford (C)(10)-2RG_L, Perry (C) (11)

ic SST fy EAU EOE Davis (2)----------ILLG__-.. MeAdams (0)
e Substitutions—Elon: Marlett@ (2) for
Davidson Wrestlers Lose Fix; Davidson: Price (2) for Davis,

Davis for Price, Mallary (4) for Beall,
McConnell for Mallory, Elkins for Me-
Connell, Staley for Ormond, Boggs for

to Trinity By Two Points

Match Score Tied But Locals Lose
On Points.

(Continued on page 2)

(Continued on page 5)

The Davidson wrestling team, which|* * * * * * * #*# * * * *
has been under the tutelage of Coach] * WHAT?’S DOING. *
Harry Spangle, went-down in defeat at|* en 7 ¥.
the hands of the wiry and agile mat ar-,* Thursday, Feb. 23—Phi Society, 6:45 *
tists of Trinity, last Saturday, by a score|* p.m. Eu Society, 7:00 p. m. z
of 12-16. From start to finish the con-|*.— Metrophilian Society, 9:00 p.m. &
test was spectacular and hard fought.|* Pandeinic Society, g:v0 p. m. he
The matches were evenly divided but by |* Saturday, Feb. 25—Movies. x
points Trinity nosed the Wildcats out.| * Sunday, Feb 26—Vounteer Band, 10 *

Captain Cromartie, of Davidson, gained,* a. m,, C. E. Training Class, 1 p. m. *
a decision over Hardaway. Cromartie)* Ministerial Band, 1:45 p.m. se
was at all times on the offensive and was * “Y” Meeting, 6:15 p.m. *
never in danger, but was unable to pin \* Monday, Feb. 27—Basketball: Wake *
the shoulders of Hardaway, who display-|* Forest at Davidson. ae
ed rare “counters.” This was the 110 | * Leaders of Mission Study Classes, *
pound class. 2 9:30 p.m. *

The next match went to Davidson|}* Wednesday, Feb. 29—Mission Study *
when Bob Cochran secured a fall over|* Classes, 9:30 p. m. ne

(Continued on page 5) (tee *
\

BASEBALL BEGINS NEXT WEEK! |

ie
