THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 5, 1922

Religious

Activities

DR. ARBUCKLE SPEAKS
ON VICTORIOUS LIFE

At. the regular “Y” vesper service Sunday
Doctor Arbuckle delivered an inspiring talk
on “The Victorious Life.” His entire talk
was based on the 12th chapter of Hebrews.

“The help and inspiration of our friends
who are Christians make it possible for us to
press onward to the victorious life,’ said
Doctor Arbuckle. ‘Paul, with wonderful
powers of observation, was present at the
famous old Greek races. He had seen
athletes win because they knew their parents
or dear friends were watching them. Paul
compares these victorious athletes to those

~ running the Christian race.

Continuing, the speaker showed why some
fail in this Christian race to a victorious life.
Just as of athletes, much hard work, suf-
fering and patience is required of every one
for entrance. The reason for failure is that
there is not enough willing to undergo hard-
ships to become fit. Here on the campus
the weights, bad habits, keep fellows from
living a victorious life.

In his concluding words Doctor Arbuckle
told of the help that comes from Jesus Christ
in this race, “Christ has led the way and is
now sitting on the right hand of the throne
of God, with outstretched hands, beckon-
ing us to follow Him,” he said. i

The service was presided over by Bob Da-
vidson, a member of the cabinet.

Sorrells led the singing in excellent style.
Allison added much to the program by the
solo, which he sang just before the talk of
the evening,

1.

SPANISH BIBLE CLASS
CONDUCTED BY BOSCH

The first meeting of the Spanish Bible
class was held in Shearer Hall Wednesday,
September 27, There were about 50 boys
present, which shows that the idea of a class
conducted in Spanish has been well received.
Doctor Fleagle gave a short talk, explaining
the object and his plans for the class during
the rest of the year. The plan adopted was
to obtain pamphlets on the order of Sunday
school quarterlies, written in Spanish, and to
study these under the guidance of Doctor
Fleagle, Professor Goldiere and Mr. Bosch.

Mr. Bosch, who has lived in Cuba all his
life, took charge of the first meeting. He
read a chapter from the Bible and talked for
a few minutes. Bosch is a willing helper
and there can be nothing but success ahead
of this new undertaking which aims at
making this class a real factor in promoting
Bible study.

D.

C. E. TRAINING CLASS
HAS DEBATE ON PAPERS

On Sunday afternoon four members of the
Christian Endeavor Training Class had a
warm debate in which they presented the
good points of two C. E. periodicals. The
query was, “Resolved, That The Christian
Endeavor World is worth more to a South-
ern C, E. Society than The. Dixie En-
deavorer.”

A. H. Hollingsworth and L. L. Deck tried
to show that the weekly “World” is more
valuable than the monthly “Endeavorer,”
while J. E. Milton and T. C. Barr opposed
this view. The class decided the latter two
had made a better presentation of their side.

The object of the debate was to give some
good ideas on how to present :the papers
when members of the class visit C. E.
societies,

The class carries on a general training
course in Christian Endeavor methods. A
study course in Expert Endeavor is to be one
feature of the work during the winter. All
students interested in Endeavor work are
cordially invited to attend the class each

Sunday at T o'clock in Shearer Hall.

D.

MINISTERIAL BAND
f RESUMES ACTIVITIES
‘ The Ministerial Band has resumed work
with a great vim. The band is indeed for-
“tunate in having many of her old men back
4 ‘goodly portion of the Freshmen.
he band held its regular meeting Sun-
nin Shearer Hall. The subject
was: “The Call to the Min-
Scripture lesson, setting forth
“Christian life and service,
2th chapter of Romans.

own into open con=
er

ference. A good many men gave their own
motives for entering the ministry and told
how the deputation ‘committee might ap-
proach young men in leading them into the
ministry.

The band is expecting a great success in
the work this year. Several members of the
band are giving their Sunday afternoons to
the Sunday school work at Shearer Chapel,
one of the most fruitful fields in this district
for teligious work.

ep)
VOLUNTEER BAND TOLD
OF CUBAN SITUATION

The Volunteer Band held its second
weekly ‘meeting last Sunday, presided’ over
by M. P. Calhoun.

E. F. Bosch gave a very interesting and
profitable talk about the conditions in his
native home, Cuba, resulting from the cor-
rupting influence of Roman Catholicism. He
spoke of the opportunities for missionary
service there for those of the band who
have not definitely decided upon their field of
work,

The one main and all consuming purpose
of the Catholic Church there, as elsewhere,
is to cheat the people out of their meagre
living by preying on their ‘ignorance and
superstition. There is a real need for earnest
Christian workers there to fill out'the ranks
of those already there, of whom, according
to Bosch, 85 per cent are Davidson men.

At-this meeting E. P. Hudgins was elected
treasurer to take the place of the treasurer
elected last spring, who did not return.

TD.

HERE AND THERE

Dr. W. G. Sayal, ’17, is located temporarily
at Rowecliffe,, South Road, Poughkeepsie,
New York. Doctor Sayal will be unable to
go to Persia to do missionary work as he
had planned: because of unséttled conditions
there.

S. A, Lynch, ex-’05, has spent an enjoyable
summer in Europe.

William Hollister, ’16, was graduated
from the Medical department of the Univer-
sity of Maryland last June.

Rev. W. E. Frierson, '18, is now located at
Leslie, West Virginia.

Dr. J. C. Oehler, ’83, now of Palestine,
Texas, was called to Davidson last week on
account of the death of his brother, Mr.
Martin Oehler.

Rev, R. W. Cousar, ’18, of Credick, Va.,
was one of the speakers at the North Caro-
lina Synodical meeting in Charlotte this
week,

Mr. B. B. Brittenhirst, ex-’22, was grad-
uated from Hampton-Sidney last June.

Rev., W. A. Nicholson, 12, has accepted
the presidency of the school for girls at
Kenansville, N. C.

Mr. W. H. Cullan, ’19, is located per-
manently at No. 344 West 88th Street, New
York City. 2

Rev. J. D. Gillespie, ’17, is located at Bry-
son City, N. C.

Rev. E. H. Bird, ’16, is now pastor of the

‘Presbyterian Church in Anderson, N. C.

Mr. Bird was married to Miss Laidlaw re-
cently.

Mr. Kelly G. Tucker, ex-.23, was men-
tioned in a recent issue of Louisville papers
as having completed a hike from Boston,
Mass., to Louisville, Ky., a distance of over
1,000 miles. Mr. Tucker is taking studies
in the University of Louisville, and at the
same time beginning his work at the
Theological Seminary.

Davidson men have noted with pleasure
the success of Mayor Walker in Charlotte.
When he received this honor, little did any
one think that he would once welcome the
whole student body to Charlotte.

Mr. Ross, on Davidson Day in Charlotte,
in addition to furnishing his own car came
up to Davidson to see that everything went
well.

Mr, Jos. B. Johnston is the. business |’

manager at the Barium Springs Orphanage.
He brought 20 boys to Davidson to see the
Elon.game. — i

George Miley is now associated with the
Equitable Life Insurance Company in Chat-
tanooga, Tenn. He was in Charlotte for
Davidson Day.

Rev. J. C. Rowan has been installed pastor
of the First Presbyterian Church in Con-
cord.

_ Rev. Wm. E. Black conducted an
evangelistic meeting at Cornelius which was
very successful.

Dr. A. A. McGeachy, pastor of the Second
Presbyterian’ Chtrch in Charlotte, has been
giving s6me interesting lectures recounting
his observations and impressions of the con-
ditions in Europe, as seen on his recent trip
there, ‘

T. M. Lowry, ’22, is teaching in Gastonia;
D. R. LaFar, ’22, in Winston-Salem, and
Rooster McFadden, '22, in Greensboro. Each
of these is coaching his respective. football
team, and it will be interesting to note the
results of Davidson vs. Davidson coaching,
Doc, Rooster and Chef McAlpine have been
recently on the campus.

Rev. R. C. Clontz, pastor of the Presby-
terian Church in Cornelius, has matriculated
for additional work at Davidson.

FE. B. McGukin, ’22, served as assistant to
the pastor of the First Presbyterian Church
in Statesville last summer. He was leader
and teacher of the Covenanters and con-
ducted a Bible class which was most suc-
cessful. His work was appreciated by the
young people of the church.

Mr. C. C, Beam continues his work as as-
sistant to the pastor of the First Presby-
terian Church in Charlotte,

Rev. Dr. Grier, who resigned his pastorate
of the First Presbyterian Church, of Con-
cord, recently on account of ill health, has
so far regained his health:as to accept. the
pastorate of the Presbyterian Church at
Newton.

Dr. McLean Rogers, of Korea, who has
been living in Charlotte for the last few
months, is going to visit some relatives in
Virginia, after which he is going to—New
York and Boston to attend some special
clinics,

Rev. R. A. Lapsley, Jr., pastor of the First
Presbyterian Church, of Columbia, was one
of the speakers at the opening of Columbia
Seminary,

John Roddey, ex-'23, is studying law at
the University of South Carolina.

Dr. J. R. Smith, '06, and Dr. J. L. Adams,
06, together with associates in their profes-
sion, have recently purchased an office build-

ing in Asheville. Davidson men have
watched with satisfaction the success of
these men.

Neil Farr is a member of the legal firm,
Farr and Bell, Charlotte, N. C.

Mr, J. E. Cassell; ’21, former editor-in-
chief of THe DavipsoniAn, is now an in-
structor in the Lenoir High School, Lenoir,
N.C. He is also faculty director of athletics
in the sckool.

P. O. Bethea, ’22, is a teacher and athletic
instructor in the Lincolnton High School,

Rev. F. J. Haig, 14, has resigned his pas-
torate at Kings Mountain, N. C. He has
entered the Princeton Theological Seminary
for a year’s additional study.

Rev. “Jamie” Fowle, after completing his
theological course at Union Seminary, has
entered Princeton for some additional work
in theology.

“Jap” Cummings, '21, after having re-
ceived his master’s degree in one year at
Princeton, has returned to gain his Ph; D.

L. B. Nichols, ’20, is in business at An-
drews, S. C. >

Houston White, ’21, is taking post-grad-
uate work in History at Princeton Univer-
sity. :

Dr. W. T. Hearn, '13, after spending the
summer in medical work at Vienna, has re-
turned to his work at the University of
Pennsylvania. He is doing research work
in connection with the faculty.

Rev. J. A. MacMurray, ’09, has recently
removed his pastorate from Fayetteville to

the First Presbyterian Church of Abbeville,

S.C

Mr. Lex Klutz, a former Davidson man,
has been having some wonderful experiences
in the Old World. In a card to Dr. Lingle
he tells of his relief work in Asia Minor
most interestingly. Recently Mr. Klutz had
a Mediterranean trip after which a journey
to the Caucasian mountains in connection
with the Near East relief work. Mr. Klutz
is a former athlete of this college.

John R. Schenck, ’22, is teaching at Oak
Ridge this year. Mr. Schenck finished in
February and received his degree in June.

J. P. Price, '22, is entering Johns Hopkins
this fall to take up the study of medicine.

Henry Lilly, a former Davidson man, who
taught at the McCallie School last year, is
studying this year at the University of
Heidelberg in Germany.

Mitchell College at Statesville had a very
auspicious opening this fall. Rev. W. F.
Hollingsworth, 90, begins his first term of
presidency in that institution.

1p)

BLUESTOCKINGS OUTPOINT
WILDCATS

(Continued from Page 1)

the Wildcat line threw them back four times
and the whistle blew for the half.

Davidson kicked off and P. C. was forced
to punt. ‘The Wildcats marched steadily
down the field atidpassed the 30-yard mark.
There the Bluestockings intercepted a pass
and the breaks went their way. Hindman
who had been punting about 35 yards ripped
off a 50-yard punt over Hendrix’s head
which rolled to the six-yard line. Gig’s bad
leg bothered him and he punted short. In
three plays the position of the ball had
changed from Davidson's ball on P. C.’s 30-
yard line to P. C.’s ball on Davidson’s 40-
yard line. Again the wide end runs baffled
the Wildcats and the Bluestockings swept
on to the 10-yard line where a pass, Hindman
to Wilson netted a touchdown. Score—Da-
vidson, 7; P. C. 8

The Wildcats had the advantage through-
out the remainder of the contest. Once
more in ‘the third period and three times in
the final quarter they threatened the P. C.
goal but an intercepted forward pass and
inability to gain gave the ball to the Blue-
stockings. The Bluestockings did not
seriously threaten again. The thin Red line
held like a wall. The game ended with the
hall in Davidson’s possession near midfield.

Brice at center played a stellar game for
the Wildcats. His passing was good, on the
offense his man never got through and on

the defensive he was a tower of strength.
He fought through the game with a bad
wrist showing the same punch and drive that
always characterizes his play. If his wrist
is well enough to allow him to play against
Tech Saturday, it will add greatly to the
Wildcats’ chances. Gig Shepherd outpunted
Hindman decisively till his leg was hurt,
after which Hindman had a slight advantage.
On one interchange of punts the Wildcats
gained 20 yards due to Gig’s great work. It
was largely due to his punting that the
Presbyterians were pushed back in the first
quarter.

Hunt was the only consistent ground gainer
for the Red and Black. Time after time he
drove through the Blue line for gains. The
South Carolinians had Spratt covered but
Spratt was the same 130-pound demon, as
usual fighting every inch of the way. On
defense the Davidson line showed up well.
The Clinton lads were unable to clip off
more than five yards through the line at any
time and seldom did they make their dis-
tance. The Bluestockings had the Wildcats
buffaloed on end runs, often sweeping around
the flanks for long gains.

Davidson 12, (&,
Position
1 Cr eRe REE DOL DOBGUUDOUGOUG Mason
Left End
MOMAStErs: Viacciauoeeh eats one Bomar
Left Tackle
HOUR iiiscs ss cave tavmannnteses Filliamson
Left Guard
BEIGE: aortas sseietreneinetinrat seeeee Miller
Center
SPDavisivas coasts. -.... Brown
Right Guard
Clatkee ai stcesemaniies toccccccces. Wade
Right Tackle
Raison isis y secon eats ... Clowney
: Right End
Joka tlybeendeondronGonoucooupand . Hindman
Quarterback
Shepherd! icscicaesneava cares oe Pearce
Right Half
MOOfeH(C)e ah ciicereniiner mints Wilson
Left Half
Ge Dayis iseissaniernarneo ncn Moore
Fullback

Touchdowns—Moore (Davidson), Wilson.
Try for point—Shepherd. Safety—Dick.

Substitutions—Davidson: _Sorrells for
Davis, S.; Summers for Long; “Mallory for
Regen; Hunt for Davis, C.;~Davis, C., for
Mallory; Dick for Hendrix; Hendrix for
Dick; Regen for Davis, C.; Davis, C., for
Shepherd; Davis, S., for Sorrells; Long for
Summers,

P. C.—Dulin for Brown.

Referee—Perry (Sewanee).
Major (Clemson),
15; 15; 15,

Attendance—1,300 .

Umpire—
Time of quarters—15;

the many years you have heard of

The Fiorsuem Suor, you have
received a definite impression—
“a fine quality shoe?” When you
‘wear a pair you will say as others
do —“a wonderful shoe.”

i—)

H. C. LONG COMPANY
33 East Trade Street
CHARLOTTE

Home of Michaels-Sterns
“Value First” Clothes

