THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 21, 1921.

The DAVIDSONIAN

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15 Be
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
p. m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

_.Forum Editor
-Campus Editor
M._C. A. Editor

Editor-in-Chief
rst Managing Editor
ond Managing Editor
Assi set aes ie ne
osom etic itor . M.
Alumat Editor W. Z. BRADFORD.
fo), aepape ee ryt presets Fs Exchange Editor

Sec ‘
erary Editor
--Press Editor

CLUB

MOFFE

REPORTERS’

Monte J. R.

BROWN, W. P., Pres.

SMITH, R. H, Vice-Pres. INES, R. R, MOORE
BROWN, C. V., Sec-Treas. : MOSS, it M.
ALLISON, O. J. PRICE, H. B.
BITZER “LER, C, D.
CALHOUN, M. P. WALTHALL, D. B.
KARNEST, J. 'R. WHARTON, D. 3B.

FEWELL, ED. WILDMAN, A. C.

eporters: Graves, R. N., Lake, J. A., Galloway, W. F., White, R. G,
Choe Be AROS J. F., Pomeroy, W. L., Williams, J. M., McLean, S., Weeks,
G. E, Jones, J. R., Regen, C. D., McLain, W.A.,, Briggs, J. R.
BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
W. J. COOPER. ...-Business Manager
JAMES ALLEN, J. H. DAVIS, G. E. W W. G. GUILLE

Asst. Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:

.--.--Circulation Manager Assi
_.-Asst. Circulation Mgr.

in Circulati
RK. B. LILES kK, THROWER
kk, C. MOOMAW J. A. THOMPSON

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

A NEGLECTED OPPORTUNITY.

Department:

WATT McCAIN
Ss. C. FADD

A month or'more ago an editorial on a neglected activity showed
the success that our debaters this year were having, and how meager
their reward was when compared with success achieved in athletics.
The literary societies, where these debaters were trained and selected,
were spoken of as offering a similar opening to every man to train him-
self for the many times in the future when it will be necessary for him
to speak in public; further, if more of us were interested in these so-
cieties, a heartier support and wider recognition would be given our in-
tercollégiate debaters.

The society work, however, does not appeal to all, and because of
this, many fail ‘to gain a very beneficial part of the training offered here
There is another opportunity often opened to us that we neglect as
badly, if not worse, than that mentioned above. In addition, the excuse
of lack of ability cannot be made here. From time to time, lectures and
speakers of note are secured to give us talks on various subjects. Noth-
ing could be easier than to spend an hour after supper, which so many
of us waste as it is, at these lectures, yet a surprisingly small number
are present as a rule.

At no time are these men gotten here without quite a large amount
of time being spent by some member of the faculty in advertising and
arranging the details of the visit. Desides this, the cost element is al-
Ways present. During the year no small amount of money is expended
in getting men to give to us the experience and knowledge that it has
taken-them the richer part of a lifetime to amass. When there is no
real cause for our absence, and always so many reasons why we should
he interested and-benefited, can’t we see more clearly what an addition
attending these lectures will make to the training we are receiving, and
go!

Still another result of this lack of interest must be considered, In
some colleges the students have so far failed to take advantage of what
was offered them, that the faculty has thought it better not to have any
lectures given at all, lest by such ssmall audiences a bad impression of
the school be made upon the speakers and an unfavorable report spread
over the country. We certainly want neither of these things to happen
tc Davidson. It is up to us to realize more fully and take more interest
in the advantage we have, if we want to be entirely safe in preserving an
opportunity we can so, ill afford to lose.

D
DO YOUR PART!

Some time before this spring’s clections were held for the coming
year’s officers, we were all urged to think carefully over the men we
would yote for. The duties and problems that would fall to those elect-
ed were pointed out, together with the fact that only by an honest vote
on the part of everyone could we hope to have the proper officers select-
ed. All knew that such was really the case, but many would otherwise,
perhaps, have overlooked this duty as well as privilege which each year
we have to face.

Now these elections are over. We have picked the men we want,
and upon their shoulders.are being placed the responsibilities that their
Offices require. They must now begin to plan and strive for a successful
year’s work. This will take a great deal of energy and optimism on
their part. Various obstacles will arise, tending to hinder the desired
progress, All these must be met and overcome.

Every man at Davidson in his heart does want things accomplished
here. None of us doubt that. Yet as hard as the new officers, who are
now taking up the direction and guidance of the student affairs, may
strive, by themselves they can accomplish nothing. Without a hearty
and willing support on the part of“all, they will be handicapped from
the very beginning. Whatever they do, we must remember, is done
with the desire to serve and benefit us.

A majority of us expressed the desire that these men should be the
Successors to the various student body and class offices. It is certainly
no presumption on their part to expect the support of at least that ma-
jority in their efforts to carry out the work they are beginnigg. Only
by basing their plans on such a situation can they start out with the de
termination to really work for our interests and for Davidson. It rests
with us to see that, especially so far as we are concerned, nothing is
done toward hindering and as much as possible toward helping to
maintain this condition,

Open Forum

EDUCATIONAL VALUES IN
R. O. T C. TRAINING

Before setting forth what seems to me

to be the specific educational values in

the R. O. T. C. training, I must lay down
some general principles. The value of
any course of college study is to be
measured in terms of its value to the
individual in his relation to the complex
society about him. This value may be.
either direct or indirect;, by which I
mean that the knowledge received’ or
skill acquired is such as to enable the
man either to meet his problems, or the
habits he has cultivated enable him to
use the principles learned in one depart-
inent in. meeting difficulties arising in an-
other. In addition to this, value is de-
terminable in terms of present or re-
mote needs, and whether these are cer-
tain or contingent. So when I briefly
discuss the values of R. O. T. C. training.
I want you to understand that I refer to
certain uses or contingent uses; direct
or indirect values.

1, The direct value in R. O. T. C.
training is obvious for that man who in-
tends to make arms his profession. The
training received in Davidson is a most
valuable preparation for courses in West
Point or Annapolis, But since more men
seek some other valtte than this direct
one, it is necessary to ask what are the
indirect values possible. Any indirect
educational value is dependent upon
what scientific students of education call
the transfer value of training. Can the
training gotten in one study be made to
aid in gaining knowledge and acquiring
skill in another? While investigators
are disagreed as to the amount and the
method of such transfer, they are well
nigh unanimous that such transfer is a
fact, the amount depending either on the
number of identical elements in the sub-
jects or.on the method of instruction or
on both. One of the direct results of
military training in the courses offered
by R, O. T. C. is that a man learns how
ty lead and manage men.in army organi-
zation and for military purposes. Does
such knowledge and skill so ‘acquired
cnable a man to become a leader
manager of men in civil pursuits? “Since
there are many identical elements in
both, our answer can be emphatically
yes. I think unquestionably, that ‘a
young man who native en-
dowments for leadership, will be greatly
benefited in acquiring skill in leadership
and the management of men in indus-
trial and business and political situations
by the training he gets in the R. O. T. C.
He learns what the motives are that
instigate conduct and he learns how to
use that knowledge in begetting in men
that kind of action-he desires.

or

possesses

Again, since efficient executive work
depends so largely upon the ability to
decide a course of action quickly, with-
out going through the long process of
deliberation, a course of training which
begets in a man the habit of quick de-
cision carries over into almost any situ-
ation. This habit of immediaté decision
in the face of a problem is one of. the
marked values in military training and
since this is what psychologists. call a
generalized habit, it will transfer easily
and in large amount. The skill acquired
in giving orders is also of general ap-
plication. He learns how to formulate
his orders in clear and definite and pre-
cise language, so that the one receiving
the order not only may understand, but
he cannot misunderstand what is de-
manded of him.

There are also certain moral habits
and principles acquired in military train-
ing which casily transfer to other fields,
such as habits of neatness in person and
care in the use of property of another;
self-control, courage and justice. Fur-
thermore the habit of assuming toward
his work the attitude of service for the
protection of society is another that
may be made to transfer.

2. So much then for some of the pos-
sibilities. Their becoming realities de-
pends in large measure upon the meth-
ods of instruction used. One ‘of the cor-
nerstones of effective learning is the
principle first clearly announced by Com-
menius, that one learns to do by doing.
It is because the pedagogical methods
employed in military training embody
this principle that we have ground for
the belief that so much of the skill in
military instruction carries over. Ac-

With Other Colleges

Elon College, April 19—Dr. W. A.
| Harper, president of Elon College, gave |
a series of 16 lectures in Norfolk, Va.,
last week. His general theme was “A
layman’s View of Religion.” Dr. Harper
|has the honor of being the first layman
| tc deliver these lectures.

1
|
|
|
|

Queens College, April 183—The Queens
girls were permitted to hear the Dart-
mouth Glee Club at the City Auditorium
Wednesday evening. A splendid pro-
gram was presented which was enjoyed
very much by all. The Glee Club was
brought to Charlotte under the auspices |
of the Newcomers Club.

Lenoir College, April 18—Miss Beatrice
Segsworth, traveling secretary of the
Student Volunteer Movement, was a
guest of the college last week. Her visit
was a pleasant surprise and the ad-
dresses she gave to various groups on
the campus were very helpful.

D
MINISTERIAL BAND HEARS
DR. TALIAFERRO THOMPSON

4

The Ministerial Band heard Dr, Tallia-
ferro Thompson with a great deaf of in-
terest last Sunday speak on the Value
and Necessity of Work. He mentioned
the fact that Marshall Foch, when asked
to give a motto for the American young
man, gave this one: “Success is work—
work is success.” This was emphasized
many times by Doctor Thompson in his
short talk. He pointed out that drudg-
ery makes up a great part of W -k and
that this is one reason why it is so hard
at times to work,

D.

Two literary societies, organized in
1835 at Wake ForestCollege, N. C., are
yet active. They have a joint sinking
fund and are considering the erection of
a literary socicty building.

tual, concrete, definite problems are set
for the military student to solve, not in
thought alone, but equally in action.
learns by the aid of memory to furnish
his mind with rules of the game—rules
that in so many instances are generaliz-
ed principles—and he stamps’ into his
memory thosé rules and perceives the
significance of them in the practical
problems that he has to solve. Modern
methods of teaching are emphasizing
more.and more the value of the so-called
project method of teaching. This means,
of course, that daily and constant oppor-
tunity is given the student to apply what
he has leatned theoretically to real con-
ditions and problems of a. concrete
wature.

While the phrase “mind training” is
a very vague and ambiguous term with
most people who use it, it can be made
clear if we take the pains to study the
nature and laws of learning. There is
ne value for the strengthening and train-
ing of the mind in mere dogged repeti-
tion. Unless repetition is attentive repe-
tition the process fails to fix the thing
repeated and it is not acquired. Again,
mere fixing in the memory a mass of in-
formation contributes nothing to the
ideal of mind training. Knowledge, not
information, is what education seeks
after; and knowledge implies not merely
knowing what, but why; not merely ac-
quaintance with a fact, but equally a
Perception of its significance. It is be-
cause, pre-eminently, military instruc-
tion strives after, not information, but
the significance of the information and
skill in applying it to concrete situations
that its training leads to knowledge and
the power of using that knowledge in
manifold situations.

3. Is the value of military training
found in its present or contingent value?
So far as the direct value of its goes, we
must say that itis contingent. We hope
that the young men taking HX, (0). IN. (©)
ccurses may never have any occasion to
use their knowledge of warfare; but
since occasion may arise when” such
knowledge will be of inestimable value,
I think we can never say time has been
twasted in acquiring the skill and knowl-
edge. But so far as the value is: indi-
rect, then military training possesses a
present value. It gives a man opportun-
ity to learn facts and acquire habits that
will be of immediate value, not only
when he goes out of college, but also
while he is even in college. |

2

Doctor Frazer Hood.

EXCHPHNGEe

Oy
OR %

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

IT ISN’T YOUR SCHOOL, IT’S YOU.

| If you want to live in a kind of a school

That's the kind of a school you like,

You needn't slip your clothes in a grip

And start on a long, long hike.

You'll find elsewhere what you left be-
hind,

| For there’s nothing that’s really new;
| It’s a knock at yourself when you knock

the school;
It isn’t our school—it’s you.

schools
afraid,
Lest somebody else gets ahead.

When everyone works and no one shirks¢
You can raise a school from the dead, _
And if you make your personal stake
Your neighbor can make one, too;

Your school will be what you want to

Real are not made by men

see—

It isn’t your school—it’s you. —Ex.
D.

EBONY ELOQUENCE.

Two darkies in a negro regiment were
bosting about their company buglers.

“G'long wit’ you, boy,” said one, “you
ain’t got no booglers. We is got the
hoogler and when ’at boy warps his lip
around that horn and-blows pay-call it
sounds jes’ like that um Boston sim-
phony band playin’ ‘The Rosary.’”

“Yeh, I hearn you,” replied the other.
“Talk up, boy, talk up. Yo’ is wadin’
deep into trouble.”

“An’ when he sounds’ .at tatoo the
angile Gabriel hisself is lendin’ a ear,
boy. A ear is what I says.”

“Well, if yo’ likes musik they is all
right, but if yo’ is yearnin’ fo’ food, yo’
wants a boogler with an hypnotic note
like we is got. Boy, when Ah hears ole
Custard Mouth Jones discharge his blast
Ah looks at mah beans and Ah says,
‘Strawberries, behave yoselves; yo’ is
crowdin’ the whip cream out o’ mah
dish."—The Cadet.

D.
FAIR OR FOWL.

The floorwalker approached the very
much perturbed looking young man just
inside ‘the entrance of the department
store. “You look as tho you wish some

sort of information, sir. Can I be of
service to you?”
“I don’t know,” said the perspiring

young man. “I was told to come in here
ahd purchase cither a camisole or a cas-
serole, and for the life of me I can not
remember which.”

“Well,” said the floorwalker patiently,
“if you'll tell me what kind of chicken
you propose to put in it perhaps I can
help you.”—Weather Vein.

D.

In the recent Boys’ Number of The
Spectator of M. S. C, W., they make the
following remarks about us:

“Women have many faults—
Men have only two:
Everything they say
And everything they do!”

They also wish to remind us:

“That legs are an. appendage common
to the human racé and not peculiar to
the ‘female of the species.’ We humbly
observe that men have them too.”-

D.

Two lawyers before a probate judge
recently got into a wrangle. At last one
of the disputants, losing control over his
emotions, exclaimed to his opponent:

“Sir, you are, I think, the biggest ass
that I ever had the misfortune to set
my eyes upon.”

“Order! order!” said the judge grave-
ly. “You seem to forget that I am in the,
room.”—Ex.

TD.

DD

Miss Helen Pettigrew, a pretty blue-
eyed miss of twenty, wants to be gov-
ernor of Kansas. She is head of the
Anti-War Club. Her campaign for the
governorship is being managed by a
younger sister. Her platform includes
opposition to all “Blue Laws.” She also
believes in jazz music, beer, light wines
for those who want ’em. Also, she says,
that women should smoke if they wish,

‘and dress as they please—Centre Col-

lege Cento.
