THE

DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 16,

1922

TOWN NEWS

Miss Grace Goodrum has been sick for the
last few days, news that is not pleasant to
her many friends.

The Ladies Missionary Society of the
Methodist Church met with Mrs. H. H. Sig-
mon Tuesday evening. New officers were

elected and after the business session was
concluded, delicious refreshments were
served

The Thelemites Club was entertained Fri-
day evening by Dr. J. L. Douglass. Doctor
Flangle spoke on “The Myth of Marshal
Ney.” Dr. Hamilton Holt, the distinguished
visitor, spoke on his tour of Europe. Miss
Kate Douglass was assisted in serving by
Miss Mary Black.

Mr. Hamilton Holt, while in Davidson was
the guest at the home of Dr. and Mrs. Thos.
W. Lingle.

All of the friends of Mrs. V. Currie sym-
pathize with her in the loss of her sister.

Mrs. A. Currie was sick the first part of
the week.

Mrs. Fred McGill, nee Miss Pearl John-
son, a missionary to India, is in America on
her furlough. She is now visiting her
mother, Mrs. Johnson, in Davidson, Mrs.
McGill's many friends are giving her a cor-
dial welcome.

The Misses Young, Miss Mary Monroe,
Mrs. Erwin and C. F. Wildman, '23, motored
to Jugtown, N. C., last Monday.

Miss Martin, of Virginia, is the guest of
Mrs. A. Currie.

SELF-DENIAL WEEK OBSERVED

Davidson observed this weck as the week
of Self-Denial and Prayer for home mis-
sions. Monday and Tuesday afternoons at
4 o'clock the first two meetings were held.
After the meeting Tuesday afternoon a Self-
Denial offering was made. Wednesday eve-
ning the regular prayer meeting took the
place of the Self-Denial meeting for that

Say it with Flowers

SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS ,

SHAVE AND HAIRCUT
Bay Rum
Norton Bros.

Barbers
Next to Postoffice

CThe Raleigh

221 West CTrade Street

Charlotte's
Best Cafe

After Every

day. Thursday evening a pageant will be
given by the young ladies’ circle. At this
time another Self-Denial offering will be
made. ;
BOOK LOVERS CLUB

Friday afternoon the Book Lovers Club
meets with Mrs. Lingle. Mrs. Rutledge
Withers has charge of the program for the

afternoon. “Italian Art in the Renaisance
Period” is the subject of the study of the
club,

YOUNG MATRON’S CLUB

Last Friday the Young Matron’s Club met
with Mrs. Hugh Grey. Refreshments were
served and a good time was enjoyed by all.

NEW WOMAN’S BIBLE CLASS

A new Bible study class was organized last
week for the purpose of studying the gospel
of Luke. They had their first study meet-
ing Thursday at 10:30 a, m, at the manse, at
which time and place they will conduct their
meetings every week. They are following
the study course prepared by Dr. J. Grey
McAllister, of the Theological Seminary of
Kentucky. Mrs. Black and Mrs. A. Currie
were elected chairman and teacher respec-
tively.

TWO QUILTS TO BARIUM
Mrs. Lingle’s circle met at the civil league
hall and spent most of their time sewing,
quilting and studying their mission study
hook. They completed their text book and
made two quilts, which were sent to the
Barium Springs Orphanage.

METHODISTS HOLD SPECIAL
SERVICES
The Methodist pastor, Mr. Foster, is hold-
ing a series of evangelistic services each
Sunday evening, which are a source of great
help to all who attend.
T.

1)

R. O. T. C. Notes

By SAM BROWN

Wednesday afternoon at the battalion pa-
rade commissions were awarded to the 18
cadet officers of the Junior and Senior
classes in R. O, T. C. These men in future
will wear Sam Brown belts just as officers in
the regular army. This will give the unit a
more military appearance and since every-
thing possible is being done to accomplish
this purpose and to improve the standing of
the R. O. T. C. at Davidson, it is a great
step forward. At this time the non-commis-
sioned officers received their warrants;

SPIRIT RUNS HIGH
The entire unit is showing a spirit of co-
operation this year which is in keeping with
their spirit in other things. The majority of
the Freshmen have had military training
at prep school and the quality of their drill
compares well with that of the older men.

COMPETITIVE DRILL

The battalion drilled from three until five
o'clock Wednesday and the first hour was
taken up entirely with competitive squad
drill. Judges were appointed and the cof-
poral of each squad put his men through ‘a
series of movements which were graded by
them. When the battalion was re-formed the
winning squad in each company was an-
nounced. The winners were as follows:
Corporal Brice, of the third squad, first
platoon Co. A; Corporal Matthews, of the
first squad first platoon Co. B; Corporal Mc-
Swain, of the fourth squad second platoon
Co. C; Corporal Ramsey, of the fourth
squad first platoon Co. D. Corporals Ramsey
and Brice tied for first place as the best
squad in the battalion and this tie will be
drilled off next Wednesday afternoon. Later
in the year competitive drills will be held be-
tween the companies for the honor flag which
was awarded last year to Company B at the
Armistice Day drill.

BAND PLAYS

The band was out for duty and a formal
review was held. This year’s band, consi8t-
ing of 22 pieces and under the able director-
ship of Captain Buchanan, excells even the
organizations of several years past. If Buck
keeps up his rigid practices for a while he
will undoubtedly develop a first class band of
which the students can be justly proud. Then
such remarks as “Play the other one now,”
etc., will be out of place.

CAMP McCLELLAN
‘The six weeks summer camp in 1923 will
very Jikely be held at Camp McClellan, An-
niston, Alabama. | Already 12 men have
Signed up and there are several more who
have expressed interest but who are not.ab-
solutely certain. In the summer of 1920

there were enough men at camp from this
post to form a- Davidson platoon. Tle

it more pl nt, for when only a few
men go, they are scattered among different
companies with strangers. The major study
at camp will be rifle and pistol fire.

D

WOFFORD EASILY DEFEATED
(Continued from page seven)

back to the 31-yard line. Davidson then
tried her first pass, Hendrix to Davis, and it
worked for a touchdown. Moore again drop-
kicked goal. Score—Davidson, 14; Wof-
ford, 0.

Brice kicked off 10 yards to, Rickard who
fumbled, Sorrells recovering on Wofford’s
49-yard line. Shephard made one at right
guard but on the next play Davidson was
penalized 15 yards—McMasters holding.
Hendrix again resorted to passing but King-
man intercepted the pigskin on Wofford’s
45-yard line. Nappy threw Gross for a one-
yard loss and ‘Wofford was penalized 15
yards for holding. Robertson fumbled and
recovered on his 30-yard line. Hoole got
off a dandy 60-yard punt to Hendrix, who
returned six yards to the 26-yard line. Shep-
hard drove through right guard for three
yards. Moore added 10 and first down at
left guard. Hunt made four at center and
Shephard pushed through right for seven
steps and first down. Moore twisted 11
yards and a first down off left tackle and
duplicated the feat at right tackle. Ball on
Wofford’s 27-yard line. Hendrix ripped 13
yards and another first down off left: tackle.
Wofford was penalized five yards for off-
side. Ball on 10-yard line, first down. Moore
broke through and threw Spratt for an
cight-yard loss, but Spratt more than made
up for it when he made 13 at left tackle.
Shephard rammed right guard for three
yards. Quarter up. Davidson, 14; Wofford,

SECOND QUARTER

Fourth down and two to go. Moore made
one at right tackle. Ball goes over. Hoole
got off another ‘fine 50-yard punt to Hen-
drix who was downed in his tracks. Shep-
hard made two before going out of bounds
on Wofford’s 42-yard line. Moore found a
stone wall at rig httackle, but Hendrix tossed
Faison a pass that was good for seven yards.
Hendrix then sliced eight yards and first
down off left tackle and Shephard ploughed
center for six. Moore went through right
tackle for the remaining 21 yards for a
touchdown, but the referee brought him
back and penalized Sam Davis 15 yards for
holding. Moore and Hunt made six and two
respectively at right tackle. Fourth down
and 11 to go, Hendrix tossed Moore a pass
good for 10 yards, but the ball went over.
Bailey made two at center, but McMasters
stopped him without a gain at left tackle.
Hoole punted 55 yards to Hendrix who re-
turned five. McMasters penalized 15 yards
for holding. Shephard, failed at right tackle
and Hunt lost two, but got out of bounds at
left end. A pass, Hendrix to Davis, was
‘good for 42 yards, putting the ball on Wof-
ford’s 35-yard line. Hendrix made four at
left tackle and Moore added two around left
end. Shephard made seven yards and first
down in two attempts at right tackle. Moore
made five through left tackle, but Davis
threw him for a two-yard loss at right end.
Hunt took one yard at right tackle. Fourth
down, six to go. Ball on Wofford’s 18-yard
line. Gross intercepted pass and returned to
his own 36-yard line. Lessner made three at
left tackle and one at right tackle. A pass
was incomplete. The second team went in
for Davidson. Hoole punted out of bounds
on the 50-yard line. Regen fumbled and re-
covered for no gain. Dick worked his way
for 18 yards and first down through right
tackle. Crawford made two at left tackle,
Dick seven at left tackle and McCombs two
and first down at left tackle. Crawford
made three at left tackle. A pass was m-
complete. Crawford-Faison, via air line,
made 12 and first down. First down with ball
on seven-yard line. Half up. Davidson, 14;
Wofford, 0. f

THIRD QUARTER

Roberts kicked off 49 yards to Dick who
returned to his 29-yard line. DeArmon
made six at left tackle and Crawford added
six more and first down at right tackle. Mc-
Combs made one, Wofford offside, first
down. Dick went through left tackle for
two paces. A pass, Crawford to Faison,
gained six and Crawford made it first down
with two at right tackle. Davidson penal-
ized 15 yards, Cox holding. Dick made
eight and Crawford added three at right
tackle. A pass was incomplete. Regen, in
attempting to punt, fumbled and it was Wof-
ford’s ball on her own 45-yard line. Hoole
made one yard, at right tackle and a pass,
Hoole to Brown, gave Wofford a first down.
Hoole circled right end for five and ploughed
center for three. Two passes were incom-
plete and the ball_went over on Davidson's
42-yard line. Coach Grey sent his varsity
back into the game. Davidson penalized 15

yards—line holding. Hunt drove through
right tackle for five and Hendrix passed to

flour.

Best baking results can only be obtained from the best
NOSOCA (Plain) and IREDELL (Self-Rising)

are supreme in quality, uniformly perfect the year round.

Sold in Davidson by Knox & Barnette Company

STATESVILLE FLOUR MILLS COMPANY
STATESVILLE, N. C..

Davis for a 15-yard gain. Shephard found
a hole at left tackle that was good for six
yards and first down. Hunt made two and
Moore added five at left tackle and Shep-
hard again made ‘it first down with four oft
right tackle. Moore slipped around left end
for two yards, Hunt picked up two at left
guard and Hendrix made nine and first
down over right tackle. Moore took three off
right tackle and Shephard side-stepped his
way through left tackle for 16 yards and a
first down. Hendrix found right tackle good
for the remaining three yards and a touch-
down, Moore failed to kick goal but Wof-
ford. was offside, giving Davidson the extra

CATARRH

of nose or throat is al-
ways made more endur-
able, sometimes greatly
benefited, by Vicks vapors,
Apply up the nostrils—melt
in a spoon and inhale vapors.

VICKS

PoRuB

Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

point. Davidson, 21; Wofford, 0.

Brice kicked off 35 yards to Lassner wno
returned to his 44-yard line. Galt failed at
eft end_and a pass was incomplete. Hoole
made 10 yards and first down around right
end, On the next play Davidson was offside,
giving Wofford another first down. Hoole
made four and Galt one at right tackle.
Quarter up. Davidson, 21; Wofford, 0.

FOURTH QUARTER

Hoole gained three around right end. A
pass was incomplete and the ball went over
on Davidson's 13-yard line. Shephard hit
right tackle for eight yards and Hunt made
it first down with three over left tackle.
Hendrix took one at right tackle and then
he and Davis completed a beautiful pass that
was good for 56 yards and a touchdown.
Shephard place-kicked goal. Davidson, 28;
Wofford, 0.

Shephard kicked off but Davidson was off-
side. Shephard again kicked off 50 yards to
Rogers. who returned to his 35-yard. line.
Hoole made six yards around right end but
Faison stopped Roberts without a gain. Hunt
then intercepted a pass and ran 41 yards for
a touchdown. On the try for point play, a
pass, Hendrix to Hunt, gained three yards
but failed to score. Davidson, 34, Wofford,

Ss

Shephard kicked off 47 yards to Rogers,
who returned to his 31-yard line. Rogers
made two at center and Hoole punted out of
bounds on, Davidson’s 48-yard line. Moore
twisted through right tackle for five yards.
Davis gained four paces on one end around
play Hunt hit right tackle for six yards and
first down. _Moore was thrown for a nine-
yard loss at left end but a pass, Hendrix to
Davis, gained back the ground. A
pass, Hendrix to Covington, went for 15
yards and another first down. Ball on 22-
yard line. Shephard made six at right
tackle but Covington failed at left tackle.
Shephard added six yards and the Wild-
cats last first down over right tackle. Shep-
hard tore through right tackle for four yards.
Moore failed. at left tackle and Shephard
added three more at right tackle. Fourth
down, ball on three-yard line. A forward
pass was incomplete. Ball goes over. Hoole
punted to the 30-yard line, Hendrix return-
ing to the 24-yard line. A pass was incom-
plete and a second was intercepted by Hoole
on the goal line. The Wofford quarter re-
turned to his 24-yard line. Game over. Da-

vidson, 34; Wofford, 0.

ACADEMY

KEITH

VAUDEVILLE

CLAUDE L LEE, Manager

THURSDAY, 16th FRIDAY, 17th
SATURDAY, 18th

THE ACADEMY ORCHESTRA
G. Shulze, Director

Overture—‘‘Raymond”

PATHE NEWS AND COMEDY

ACADEMY ORCHESTRA

Selection—The Half Moon”
Fox Trot—‘‘Meet Me Next MENEZ :

MARTELL AND WEST

Clever and Comical Acrobatic
Uaeeere

MARGLE and RUTH ARNETTE.

In “Harmony and Charmony”

“LISTEN LESTER”’

By Harry L. Cort, George Stod-
dard and Harold Orlob with a cast
of six.

William Penn, Jr., Lee Dayley;
Lester, Dan Marble; Col. Dodge,
George Shields; Mary Dodge, Kath-
leen Robinson; Arbutus Quilty, Lulu
Swann; Mrs. Mumm, Mabel Dwight.

Musical Numbers—*‘I Wonder If
It's You"; “Waiting”; “Good Baby
in the Daytime”; “I'd Love To”;

“For a Girl Like You.”

DUVAL AND SYMONDS
Billy Merle

In “Their First Quarrel’

CLAYTON AND DREW PLAYERS

In Their Hilarious Shakespearian
Travesty
“When Home Howls”
A Cast of Five Interpreting Julius
Caesar, Mark Antony, Cleopatra,
Tonsilitis and Bronchitis.

Make Your Seat Reservations Now

VICTROLAS
VICTOR RECORDS
| PIANOS

Parker-Gardner Co.

MUSIC DEPARTMENT

16 W. Trade St. CHARLOTTE

