4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 19, 1922

The DAVIDSONIAN
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as ‘Mail-Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All ‘Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
p. m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

eto) Soc coscvccece Editor-in-Chiet H. H. SMITH. 5 ditor
ay irst Managing Editor iN Cc. AIKEN. Campus Editor
Second Managing Editor a OGDEN. Cc itor
Pee T + Assignment Editor Re ELLIOTT. ‘Social Editor
.-Athletic Editor H, M MORRIS..... . Literary Editor
Use Editor W.. Z, BRADFORD........++++ Press Editor
OX Meese cco ccsetes Exchange Editor
PRESS BUREAU :
W. Z. BRADFORD........eeeeeeeeee Manager W. F. GALLOWAY.......Assistant Manager
Assistants
MINTER, J. COX, L,. P. MILTON, W. E.

SMITH, C.F. McLEOD, W. C

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT

APPELBY, J. At,

W. J. COOPER.....++.0es aay Manager
L. P E, J. H. DAVIS, G. E. WEEKS and W. G. ©) OUD OOUOGORE: Advertising Solicitors
Ristes etait TCI {EN eeeeesese Office Assistant E. oh oscil OCU cree Advertising | Copy

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT ‘

WATT McCAIN........ Circulation Manager C. FAIN.......:../ Asst. Circulation Mgr.
res ; eee
R. B. LILES FE. Cc. MOOMAW J. A. THOMPSON

REPORTERS’ CLUB

BROWN, W. P.,. Pres GALLOWAY, W. F. PRICE, HB.
SMITH, 'R. H., Vice-Pres LAKE, J. Jr. SHARBE, W. H.
BROWN, G, V., Sec-Treas NelLWArsis °C WALTHALL, D._B.
ALLISON, 0. J VER, D, aor WHARTON, D. B.
CALHOUN, M. P MAUZE’ G WILDMAN, A. C.
EARNEST, J. R MOFFET, XN, WILLIAMS, J. M.
FEWELL, ED. MOORE, W. H.

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

The work of our Quartet for the campaign has been of great value. They
had an inspiring effect everywhere they sang. ‘The praise they received was
quite an honor to them, and, we know quite well-merited.

D

A lot has been said lately about Davidson spirit. It has been absent at
times, seemingly, but we know that it was really here, that the spark just
needed to be touched. Let’s keep it aflame from now on,

T).

THE NEW CHAMBERS BUILDING

OR several months every student at Davidson has been waiting in suspense.
FE This was caused by anxiety for the erection of a building to replace the
ruins of Chambers that have stared us in the face since last November, All
during the summer, remnants have been removed until now hardly anything
but the stately old columns remain to mark the spot. None/of us can pass this
part of the campus without a thought of what used to be there.

Also in our minds, we have been building pictures of what will take the
place of the historic landmark. ‘These, perhaps, have been vague at times,
merely visions. None, however, have failed to have some thoughts about what
will soon come as a result of the progress Davidson is making. Now we have

before us the handsome building almost exactly as it will be erected on our
campus. None can fail to be impressed by it. It is one that will ever bring
pride to the friends and men of Davidson.

Fond memories will come to the alumni and present students when they
see the columns, the large hall in the center, the wings on each side. The
improved and enlarged administration offices, the offices for the faculty, the
class rooms and labs., all located in one central building, will be very instru-
mental in saving time and confusion. No longer need we walk from Concord
to Shearer Hall between classes, no longer arrive late and breathless. An
auditorium of adequate dimensions will seat us, one that can be easily used
with’ its modern equipment for every purpose desired. Such is the New
Chambers that we want to do our part in securing.

D.
HELP MEET IT HERE

HE campaign for the funds to erect this new building has been going on
Ta great success. Everywhere that the call has been sent out, it has
been liberally answered. Davidson is receiving support that can only make us
glad she is the college of our choice. Not only in North Carolina, but in
Georgia and Florida, the Synods are preparing to do all they can to help secure
our New Chambers.

Now the issue is coming squarely before us. We are going to be given a
chance to rally to the cause, to show that we will not be outdone in devotion
and loyalty to our college. $25,000 is our quota. The farther we can go over
the top, the better we can demonstrate to others that they are making no mis-
take in giving their funds for education, and for education of men at Davidson.

We know Davidson better than anyone else can, fellows. What we think
of her.and how we are willing to sacrifice will determine in a large measure
what others will do. Many colleges recently where campaigns have been put
on have oversubscribed their quota remarkably. Each man’s part here is $50.
Honor subscriptions will run up to one hundred. Of course, none of us are
willing for the new building to go up without our having a part in it; every
one will want to have his allotted share. But who doesn’t want a larger part,
a greater share than the average!

From a cut in this issue of the paper, we see that we pay the college only
39 per cent of what our education costs her. Just think of how much we are

: ‘getting each year for nothing, absolutely as a gift in order that we may be
better ‘equipped and more: successful men. Can we ever pay back this debt to
who have made us the present? - Certainly, we can do the part of loyal

ie, and ‘subscribe 100 per cent strong for the New Chambers

LIBRARY NEWS

‘During the last few days several
new and interesting books have been
added to the library.
interesting of these new books is Gen-
eral Robert E. Lee After Appomattox
with General Lee as a college presi-
dent, picturing him in a phrase of life
which Southerners know better than
Northerners.

Another new book is International
Relations by James Bryce. Why it is
that although economic relations have
been growing closer and personal in-
tercourse between nations has become
frequent, that political friendliness has
not increased, is the subject treated in
this volume.

Enduring Investments, by Rogers
W. Babson is a very interesting book
and, many new facts are brought to
light by it. Raising money for the sup-
port of non-money making institutions,
such as churches and colleges has long
been a difficult task. Perhaps this is
because the solicitors are people who
know more of spending other people's
money than of making their own.

The following new books of fiction
have been obtained: Lost Valley, by
Katherine Fullerton Gerould, whose
high water mark in dramatic story
writing*is reached in thisjbook ; Gentle
Julia, by Booth T arkingtans Saint
Teresa, .a story of present-day
America, by Henry Sydnor Harrison;
The Fugitive, by Robinbramth Tagore,
and This Fundom, by A. S. M. Hutch-
inson,

D
PEP MEETINGS SHOW
TRUE DAVIDSON SPIRIT

The old Davidson spirit is being
awakened from its lethargy which has
had a grip on it all this week. Various
things have been said and written
about the decline of this spirit and the
ever greater need for it now. Since
the Wildcats’ wonderful defensive
game against Georgia's pride, the
never-say-die fighting spirit of the col-
lege has come to life with a vim.
Leonard Dick started the ball rolling
Wednesday morning when he made a
strong appeal in chapel for a return of
the old-time team-supporting spirit.
In anticipation of the Wake Forest
struggle three pep meetings were held
on successive days preceding the game.
* On Wednesday night the Freshmen
were given a chance to exhibit their
knowledge of Davidson songs and
cheers and to give their vocal chords
some practice. Cheer leader Bob Mc-
Leod put a little old pep into the meet-
ing and the new men let loose.

Thursday afternoon Sprunt Field
resounded to the shouts of a cheering

| student body. The stands were packed

and yell after yell floated across the
field to let the squad know that 500
fellows were behind them. As if re-
sponding to the call the different
elevens ran through their plays like
veterans.

The enthusiasm of the student body
reached its highest pre-game pitch on
the night before the eventful game.
Right after supper Shearer Hall wit-
nessed a pep meeting rivalling ‘those
always held previous to the big Caro-
lina day. Bob Mcleod, Speck Me-
Connell and Flop Beaver were there
with the goods and brought back
thoughts of Story, Price and Knox,
Inc., who last year ran things at top
speed. Several new yells were learned
and the noise and life proved that all
throats and spirit were ready for dou-
ble duty the following day.

.D.

“There are two things that you can’t
disguise; a man and a Ford.”
“How can you tell?”

“By the clutch.”

One of the most

ZS
pws

EXCHANGE |
COLUMN ||) |

=
€

“Who's icky, bicky honey bunch is
00?” she gurgled as she cuddled up to
him.

In order to give emphasis to his
answer he took his other hand from the
wheel and, thus unguided, the car skid-
ked from a mud hole to the side ditch
and spilled them both in the mud. As
the young man arose he scratched the
mud and dirt from his ears, eyes and
nose and gurgled “ooze.”—Selected.

Women and Angels
“Why is a woman like an angel ?”
“Always: up in the air, harping on
something, and never has an earthly
thing to wear.”’—Selected.

Be Your Best
If you can’t be a pine on the top of a
hill,
Be a scrub in the valley but be
The best little scrub by the side of the
rill,
Be a bush if you can’t be a tree.

If you can’t be a bush, be a bit of the
grass,
Some highway to happier make.
If you can’t be a muskie then just be
a bass,
But the liveliest bass in the lake.

We can’t all be Captains, we’ve got to
be crews,.,
There’s something for all of us
here,
There’s big work to do, and there’s
lesser to do
And the task we must do is the near.

If you can’t be a highway, then just
be a trail,
If you can’t be the sun, be a star,
It isn’t by size that you win or you
fail—
Be the best of whatever you are.
—Furman Hornet.

Figure It Out

How many apples did
Eve eat?

Some say Eve eight and Adam two
—a total of 10 only.

Now we figure the thing out far dif-
ferently: Eve eight and Adam eight
also—total 16.

We think the above figures are en-
tirely wrong.

If Eve eight and Adam 82, certainly
the total will be 90.

Scientific men, however, on the
strength of the theory that the ante-
deluvians were giants, reason some-
thing like this: Eve 81 and Adam 82
—total 163.

Wrong again. What could be
clearer than if Eve 81, Adam 812
which makes 893.—Exchange.

Adam and

“What cigarettes do you smoke?”
“My old lady’s.”

A Blush

A blush is a temporary eletheme
and colorfic effulgence of the physi-
ogonomy ociologized by the perceptive-
neds of the sensorium when a predic-
ament of the unequilibrity from a
sense of shame, anger or some other
cause eventuating in a paresis of the
vasomotor filaments of the facial cap-
ilaries where, being divested of their
elesticity, they are suffused with radi-
ant; aerated, compound nutritive, cir-
culating liquid emanating from an in-
timinated praecordio—Furman Hor-
net.

DAVIDSON’S DESERTS
(Editorial From Greensboro’ Daily
News).

Orange Presbytery,of the Presby-
terian Church has undertaken to raise
$54,000 of the $200,000 the churches
of the State are expected to contribute
to the $600,000 fund for Davidson Col-
lege. It is a big contribution, but then
Orange is a big Presbytery; and by
comparison with the need, $54,000 is a
trifling sum,

If it had been rewarded in propor-
tion to services rendered, Davidson
College today would have millions be-
hind it. If it were. to be endowed in
accordance with the benefits it might
be expected to return to the State were
its energies released the campaign
would be for $6,000,000 instead of
$600,000, What Davidson is asking of
the Presbyterians is not wealth, but a
bare chance to live; and it is unthink-
able that the request Should be refused.

The State is bestirring itself as never
before to provide collegiate training
for the boys and girls of North Caro-
lina, But the State is hopelessly
handicapped. It cannot meet the need
without the aid of the denominational
institutions. Nor is it desirable that it
should. After all, the church colleges
have given the State something that it
never could have won for iteslfi—a re-
minder that religoin is not purely an
emotional experience, that “the fear of
the Lord is the beginning of wisdom:
a good understanding have all they
that do His commandments.”

When the church begins to belittle
intellectual attainments, it makes it
very difficult for intellectual men to
retain their respect for the tenets of
the church; and if the church permits
the State to“monopolized the business
of education, it risks incurring the
secret, if not the open, contempt of
educated people. Even if this endow-
ment is raised, Davidson College will
continue to do*far more for the Pres-
byterian Church than the Presbyterian
Church is doing for Davidson College.

D

—=

STUDENT COMMITTEE
(Continued from Page One)

'. H. Kienig, 6 Watts.

.. Lewis, 106 West.

. F, Marrow, 15 Watts.

. W. McAllister, 304 West.

. M. McComb, 304 West.

. F, Millhouse, 7 Ga.

I, T. Mitchell, 112 East.

. I, Shepherd, B. East.

M. W. Trawick, 2 S. B.

FRESHMEN
EO! Jr., 407 East.

Souvier, Sloans.

srinson, 1 Watts.
Buck, 112 East .

Caddell, 403 East.

(Ch, Davis, +W ue

L. L. Deck; 5 N. B

L. B. Finn, Jr., 308 West

J. M. Garrison, 7 La.

J. T. Hedrick, 306 East.

A. H. Hollingsworth, Jr., 8 N

L. B. Huie, 210 West.

L. Lovelace, 207 West.

C. K. Marshall, 109 West .

W. B. Mattison, 203 East.

C. F. Monk, 411 East.

C. McCall, 303 East.

W. G. McDonald, 10 Ga.

C. McIntosh, 310 East.

J. A. MecMillian, 214 West.

H. B. McNair, 1 S. B.

E. O'Connor, 103 East.

E. Regen, 16 West.

A. S. Robinson, 110 West.

N. E. Satterfield, 12 N. B,

N. B. Spierm, 6 R.

G. W. Smith, 404 East.

W. T. Spencer, 110 West.

E. D. Witherspoon, 22 R.

SN,
Jo Ns 1
J. L.E
1D;y Ike,
Ip;
ay
