“4 THE

DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 14,

ELIT ST

The DAVIDSONIAN

CAMPUSISMS

Oo)

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Agsociation.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All ‘Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
p. m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

. KF. IDSON + «+. Editor-in-Chiei H. H. SMITH.......;. .Forum Editor
E B. DaKine. ’ Managing Editor R. C. AIKEN. Campus Editor
W. M. HESTO. .Second Managing Editor D. H. OGDEN. Y. M. C. A. itor
R. R, JONES... +++eeeAssignment Editor W. T. ELLIO’ seveeeeeeesesSocial Edito:
E. H. MAUZE. oe LYE Bee Lit inf fa SE Roa Urey, sited

oc ccccscces or o & cecceccccees Presa Edit
URAL) 2 W. M. ‘COX CLERINEET ++eeeeeExchange Editor
PRESS BUREAU
W. Z. BRADFORD..........----0005 Manager W. F. GALLOWAY...... - Assistant Manager
£ rout Cc MINTER, TA
fy BARRINGTON, J. C. MINTER, J. A.
PPLE, ¥. M. McINTOSH, CLAUDE RATCHFORD, B. V. D,
BUSINESS DEPARTMENT
Sod COOPER..........-..Business Manager ay *
R. L. PRICE, J. H. DAVIS, G. E. WEEKS and W. G. GUILLE............-4 Advertising Solicitors
JAMES McCUTCHEN......... Office Assistant E. J. ROSCH..:...........Advertising Copy
% CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT
WATT MCcCAIN........Circulation Manager Sl Co PAING. «4066006 Asst. Circulation Mgr.
Assistants

R. B. LILES E. Cc. MOOMAW J. A. THOMPSON

REPORTERS’ CLUB

BROWN, W. P., Pres.
SMITH, R. H., Vice-Pres.
BROWN, C. V., Sec.-Treas.
ALLISON, 0. J.
CALHOUN, M. P.
EARNEST, J. R,
GALLOWAY, W. F.
LAKE, J. A.

We TL
a .
POMEROY, W. 1.
PRICE, HL. B.

This is the last issue of The Davidsonian for this fall. We wish our sub-
scribers a Merry Christmas, and hope that all will greatly enjoy the holiday
season,

D.
A COURT OF CONTROL

LL the members of the student body are familiar with the details of the
Court of Control which it is planned to establish here in place of the old
vigilance committee. If hazing is abolished, this court will take a much more
effective control over the Freshmen than the Sophs or any individuals ever
could. What hazing could not do in the way of showing a Freshman that he
is expected to live up to the Davidson traditions and conduct himself as a
Freshman should, this court can do. Every Freshman will be given a fair
hearing before it, and before his trial is over he will realize that the court
means business. Afterwards there is no doubt of the fact that he will be
improved a great deal more than if he had been hazed.

Since it is not desirable to act too hastily and afterwards regret it, the
Student Council has proposed that we adopt amendment to the constitution of
the student body establishing this Court of Control until next April in the place
of hazing. Even those who don’t believe it will work, can’t fairly object to a
trial of several months. Everyone realizes that the present situation is unsat-
isfactory. This looks like an excellent and most advisable remedy. Why not
give it a chance to prove its merits.

TD.

DO WE WANT HAZING?

IS fall has found organized hazing effectively done away with at David-

son. The result last year of an attempt or two on the part of the Sopho-
more class showed plainly the end that always attended such things, and we
stood by one resolve to put down this kind of hazing and stamped it out.
Ever since there has remained a little hazing by individuals that has been the
source of much trouble. No one has enjoyed it, not even those who did it, and
no one can claim that any good has come from it. Any Freshman who was a
little too fresh has stayed-as-much so as ever, and those who did not deserve
to be hazed have reaped the results of the misdeeds of the others, which is
certainly unfair. * :

Practically all severe hazing that has gone on was done by a few careless
individuals. Because of their actions, Davidson is getting a name over the
country that she does not want nor as an institution really deserves. On
account:of this bad treatment in a few instances, many of our friends are
criticising the college, failing to support it in the various ways desired, and
even writing accusations against it in the form of personal and anonymous
letters. These things simply show that the spirit of the people over the country
is absolutely against all hazing.

This ‘is more clearly proved by the action of all the more advanced and
progressive colleges and universities. For quite a while several North Caro-
lina institutions have been rid of hazing, and just recently another, Wake
Forest College, abolished it. The Davidson student body has always been
known over the State and country as being at least on a par with that at these
other institutions. Our college has long enjoyed an enviable reputation among
educational institutions. It looks now as though we are about to be left behind.
With a statement before them that hazing is done at Davidson and is not
allowed at other colleges, parents will hesitate before sending their boys here.

Since a bad state of affairs does not exist at Davidson, and we are not
behind the times in the spirit of the student body as a whole, we should wel-
come this opportunity to correct the impressions that people on the outside are
receiving of us, Since none of us enjoy what little hazing we do, and no
benefit is coming to anyone from it, we should be willing to cut it out alto-
gether. Let’s give the matter a lot of careful consideration, fellows, before we

‘turn down the chance we now have to do away with the thing entirely.

try to pick out.

In a conversation on the campus the other
night this remark was made by someone:
“When I go with a girl she knows she’s
been, went with.” Guess who?

“You look sweet enough to eat,
He whispered soft and low.
“I do,” the co-ed answered,
“Shall we to Miss Minnie’s go?”
Be careful Fi!

Neil Currie will doubtless assist in coach-
ing the baseball team this spring on how to
slide muddy
ground.

gracefully—especially — on

Hugh Smith seems to be in his dotage—in
other words his second childhood. At any
rate he’s in the infirmary with chicken pox.

li tin cans could go to perdition, the one
that was kicked around so much Sunday aft-
ernoon on first floor West, would certainly
wind up its career in said place.

One way to find out who your friendspage
is to spend a few days in the infirmary.

I. A. West, ‘24, has been recently initiated
into Phi Alpha Pi. 2

A passenger on one of the trains, on see-
ing so many derby-clad boys hanging around
such as Spoofy Sydenstricker and others
wanted to know if this was a Jewish school.

While Hugh is in the infirmary, Henry is
afraid to stay by himself, so he’s moved his
quarters to West Dorm. Conscience ‘must
hurt him or something like that.

Friends of M. W. Trawick will regret
to hear that overstudy has caused patalysis
of the seventh cranial nerve. It is to be
hoped that this trouble can soon be remedied.

‘The latest converts to Mr. Flu are C. D.
Regen T. 1. Fraser W. 5S. Buchanan, H. E.
Wilkerson, A, D, Cromartie, Roy Pritchett
and I, Barron. All these enjoyed a few
days at the infirmary.

D.

WILDCAT MINSTRELS
(Continued from Page 1)
the same show will be given on the road as
was rendered here during Senior Speaking,
with only slight changes to adapt it to the
location. :

The probability is that the money made
on these engagements will be given to the
Davidson campaign. ‘The proposed purpose
of the trips is to further the advertisement
of this campaign and_ it is believed that it
will help much in bringing in the desired
dollars.

It must be understood that these plans are
only tentative. The consent of the faculty
has not been obtained as yet, and if the per-
mit is received at once, the first trip will not
be until after the Christmas holidays.

For the benefit of those who were away
or for any other reason were unable to see
the presentation of the Sultan of Sarawak
during Senior Speaking, a second perform-
ance will likely be given Friday night, De-
cember 15, 1922, in Shearer Hall. The mini-
mum admission of 25 cents will be charged.
Let no one allow this golden opportunity to
slip by.

DD.
LV

>

EIGHT STALWART WILDCATS

(Continued from page 1)
porters. The powerful back who played the
best game of his career against Furman on
Thanksgiving day has had four years’ ex-
perience on the team, winning three letters.
He will be a wonderful man to build a back-
field around.

A resume of the season would be incom-
plete without a word of appreciation for the
scrubs. To them who realize that they won't
win a letter, but who are willing to give of
their time and strength to help the varsity, to
these men we give our thanks! Special men-
tion should be made of the three Seniors who
stayed out till the last practice, Crawford,
Moore and McLaurin.

——D.
Christmas ‘Time

She—Isn’t it strange that a man’s arm is

equal to the curcumference of a girl’s waist?”

He—Let'’s get a string and see.—Ex.

By O. J. ALLISON a awe
There scems to be others besides the stu- we
dents who dislike to attend chapel on cold, EXCHANGE
frosty mornings.
One good thing the Minstrels did, at any COLUMN
rate, was to give these would-be musicians rw
around here a new tune or two to laboriously — 73

The Charlotte Observer of December 8,
announces that Wake Forest College has
abolished hazing.

A bath is like a college education—once
you get it, no one can ever take it away
from yeu.—Chaparral.

On the old seawall she held my hand
I let my soul-felt pleadings flow
I coaxed, I begged, I swore—and yet
That, doggone crab would not let go.
it —The Log.

On Thanksgiving Day I found the best
way to talk Turkey is to: gobble.

On the Styx
Ist Shade—What are Sherman and Farra-
gut arguing about?
2nd Shade—Wry Farragut claims Sher-
man never saw an Army-Navy game before
he detined war.—The Log.

Cheer for Cheer

Full many a winning Navy team
Has played a winning game

And many a man has won his place
In Navy's Hall of Fame.

Yet none of these old heroes came
Of more heroic mold

‘Than those men who on Franklin Field
Upheld the Blue and Gold.

But now we'll add another tale
To memories of the past

Of how a Navy team went down
Still battling to the last

So while the Pointers cheer the team
That we must beat next year

We'll gather round our Navy team
And give them cheer for cheer.
(Reprinted from The Log of 1914.)

Mrs. Seig—Did that man kiss you?”
Myrtle—You don’t think that he drove 40
miles to hear me sing, do you?

“Do you drink ?”

“Nope.”

“Then tell me what makes your nose so
red?”

“Well, it's glowing with pride because it is
kept out of other people's business.”

M. Wilkinson—I don’t don’t know what to
do with my week-end.
E. Daniels—Put your hat on it.

“Dearest,” he said, “do you think you could
love a fellow like me?”
“I might,” she replied, “if he wasn’t too

much like you.”—Brackety Ark.

‘Ted—What kind of fellow is Blinks?”

Bill—Well, he is one of those fellows who
always grab the stool when there is a piano
to be moved.

8 2Much
I often sit and medit8
Upon the scurvy trick of £8
That keeps me still a celib8
Oh, cruel f8!
I want a 10 der maid sed8
To love me and to be my m8
My 40 2de is not so gr&
I cannot w8.
Oh, £8 Be9! B4 2L8
ve my awful single st8
And when I’ve won this maid sed8
We'll oscul8,
—Shanghai American School.

“Do
slang?”
“Some of them do. Why?”
“My daughter is to be married in London,
and the earl has cabled me to come across.”
—Boston Transcript.

Englishmen understand American

Oh Mr. Gallagher, Oh Mr. Gallagher,
Did you ever hear the place they call West
Point?
It's the military school
From which the Navy took the mule;
Do you think they can repeat the feat this
year?

Oh Mr. Shean, Oh Mr. Shean,
Of course I know the place
mean,

But for every service game,
Every victory is the same
For the Army, Mr. Gallagher?

No, the Navy, Mr. Shean.—The Log.

that you do

DAVIDSON FIVE
YEARS AGO

SIXTH SUCCESSIVE
VICTORY WON WHEN
WILDCATS DEFEAT TIGERS

Davidson Overcomes Clemson’s
Lead and Wins by Score
of 21 to 9

The game started off rather inauspiciously
for Davidson when Banks received the kick-
off on the five-yard line and slipped down
the sidelines for 90 yards before Gray’ stop-
ped him—Clemson made her touchdown in
three plays—near the end of the second
quarter a pass, Spann to King, netted the
Wildcats a touchdown. Soon after Clemson
scored two’ points and the~half ended with
the score 9 to 7 in Clemson's favor.

Clemson entered the second half full of
hope, but they left the field at the end, down-
cast and with their hopes blasted. Davidson
opened up passes of all varieties, wonderfully
executed and bewildering to the surprised
Tigers. Two touchdowns were added to the
Wildcat score by this method and when the
game ended they were about to cross Clem-
son's line for a third.

SUMMARY OF 1917 FOOTBALL
SEASON

6; Navy 27.

S: A & EB 7,

10; Ga. Tech 32.

78eNi Pal, 13;

23 aVeENy Ty 7s

28; Furman 7.

21; Auburn 7.

73; Wake Forest 7.

62; Wofford 0.

21; Clemson 9.

254; Opponents 116.

Various and sundry reasons have been
given for Davidson's success. But to save
time and trouble, the real reason for our
winning is named—Coach Bill Fetzer. We
firmly believe that if our “Coach Bill” had
the material and necessary financial backing
he could turn out a Red and Black machine
that would plow through the Hindenburg line
for a touchdown in Berlin.

Davidson
Davidson
Davidson
Davidson
Davidson
Davidson
Davidson
Davidson
Davidson
Davidson
Davidson

CLIPPING FROM ATLANTA
JOURNAL

“We desire here and now to claim for the
Davidson Wildcats the lightweight cham-
pionship of the world. No team ever put
together in these United States of the same
weight as Coach Fetzer’s team could ever
get the verdict over that flock of wild men
from North Carolina.”

FRESH-SOPH DECLAMATION CON-
TEST
The Fresh-Soph Declamation contest of
the Phi Society was held last Monday night.
The judges awarded the medal to Dwight M.
Chalmers, ’20, who spoke on “The Destiny
of America.”

CLASS CHAMPIONSHIP WON BY
JUNIORS

Last Tuesday evening saw the end of the
class basketball tournament when the Juniors
defeated the Fresh, 34 to 30. Schenck and
Harrington for the Fresh and Potts and Al-
exander for the Juniors were the outstand-
ing stars of the game.

D

WILDCAT FORENSIC ARTISTS
(Continued from Page 1)
of the details of the trip.

This is the first time since 1919 that the
two teams have met on the debating plat-
form. In the debate of that year, W. M.
Currie and E. G. Lilly, both of the class of
‘19, succeeded in wresting the decision trom
the Generals on the question of government
ownership of railroads. There is no doubt
but that W. and L. will put forth every effort
to avenge this defeat.

The debate was originally scheduled for
December 15th, but owing to a misunder-
standing on the part of W. and L., the date
had to be changed to December 16th. The
team will leave Davidson on Friday, Decem-
eo and will return Tuesday, December

ith,

The debating council was unable to secure
the triangular debate with Wake Forest_and
Trinity this year, but has tentative plans for
debating each of these institutions if the nec-
essary financail aid can be secured. This can
be done only through faculty aid or by a
slight addition to the blanket fee. If ar-
ranged, these debates will take place some-
time during the spring term.

The inter-collegiate debating record of
Davidson has been truly remarkable. Since
the first debate in 1909 the forensic Wildcats
have won a total of 19 out of 27 debates.

