4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 31, 1922.

The DAVIDSONIAN

f North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Meanie of Southern Collegiate E Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

-Open Forum

With Other Colleges

A TRIBUTE.

Knowing that this is the last issue that
the present staff and Reporters Club will
get out and that the next weck’s David-
sonian will be in the hands of other

Elon College, N. C., March 20—A
unique and delightful entertainment was
given here last Friday evening when the
Y. W. C. A. put on a County Fair in the
Men’s Gymnasium. The principal fea-
ture of the entertainment was the free

Bb
Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

Soe}
A Nea

men, I wish to take the liberty as a stu-| attractions, consisting of comic readings,
dent, and I know that I am voicing the/ dialogues, and popular songs rendered
sentiment of every man in the student|by the Y. W. girls; while gay decora-
ody, to thank those men who have made| tions, side shows, fortune tellers, wiennie

The Sophomores and Freshmen of
Randolph Macon Woman's College re-
cently held a very interesting and heated

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class. -

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:

10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

itor-in-Chie . P. PRICE Forum Editor
“Hiasipeedtcr 4.8) CURRY Campus Editor
Managing Editor . C. BAILEY, JR.-.-------- Y. M,C. A. hol
nment Editor . SPRUNT. -Social Editor
thletic Editor . H, OGDEN, JR.- --Literary Editor
Alumni_ Editor W._ J. COOPER-..-.------- -------- Press Editor
J. H. McKEITHEN...-------- Exchange Editor
x.
REPORTERS’ CLUB
oF ., Pres. FEWELL, ED. MAUZE, G. W., V.-Pres.
RRADEDRD, Wo. GRACY, J. S. MOORE, W. H.
BROWN, C.'V. HESTON, W. M MORRIS, H, M. Sec.-Treas.
BROWN, W. P. ONES, i: R. SMITH, R. HH.
CALHOUN, M. P. ONES, R. BR: TULLER, C.D,
COX, W. M. <NOX, W. I. WALTHALL, D. B
ELKINS, L. D. LACY, T. A. WILDMAN, A. C.
ELLIOTT, W. T. MAUZE, E. H. WILDMAN, C. F.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

- C, WOOL... -.- 225. a. Business M
L. A. TAYLOR, E. T. wooLFOLR and W. S. SHEPARD

Asst. Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:

FS.......-Circulation Manager Assi in Circulation Department:
it POSSELL and GD. TULLER S.C, FAIN P. C, HENDERSON
ae Asst. Circulation Managers WATT McCAIN R, L, PRICE

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

- EDITORIAL

Some Speaking!

D
Even the weather man did his part this time and nothing more could

have been asked than the smiling-skics which prevailed during ‘most of
the period that visitors were on the campus. :

1) ,
The real credit for the success of what was probably the most en-
‘joyable Junior Speaking ever held at Davidson goes to’ the members of
the Junior Class, however. These men worked unceasingly to provide
the many splendid features which appeared on the program of the oc-
casion, and it is as a slight recognition of their efforts that the staff has
decided to dedicate this issue to the Purple and White of ’23.

{)-

THE NEXT SOCIAL EVENT.

UNIOR SPEAKING has passed into history for another year. The
J crowds of charming visitors which so recently graced the walks of

our campus have departed as swiftly as they came, leaving only
pleasant memories to remind us that they have been here at all, and the
life of the college is gradually returning to its usual channels, Nothing
now remains to prevent the laying of plans for Commencement, and with
that occasion only two months distant it is high time that some prepa-
rations were being made.

The need of some attractions to give this event a greater signifi-
cance in the minds of the students has long been felt here. In spite of
many efforts to persuade all to stay over for the closing exercises of
the college year, only the Seniors and a small group of under-classmen
have been remaining for that period from year to year. Such lack of
interest on the part of the students has had the effect of lessening the
interest of alumni and other visitors, who naturally do not care to come
to a mere celebration of the Faculty and Senior Class held on an almost
deserted campus. As a consequence the cofhmencement crowds have
been much below the standard which they would otherwise have at-
ained,

This year a special effort is being made by the Senior Class to have
this condition remedied. Hitherto those who remained for commence-
ment have had to remain from Saturday until Tuesday with practically
nothing to amuse them, the real program not beginning until the last
named day. This year things will be different. There will be no break
between examinations, which end Tuesday afternoon, and the com-
mencement program, .which will begin that night and continue through
Thursday morning. The Senior Class is exerting every effort to fur-
nish a pleasant and profitable time for all, Arrangements have been
made for the presentation of a class play, negotiations for the staging
of a Faculty-Senior baseball game are under way, and other special at-
tractions are promised. These considerations, together ‘with the fact
that commencement comes at the time of year when the campus has
reached its greatest state of loveliness, render it-certain thatthe-pteas-
ures of the occasion will well repay all those who remain. .'Why not
plan to invite a girl and stay over for those extra two days? In help-
ing to make commencement a success you will do your college a real
service, and at the same time be able to enjoy a genuine good time.

T) OLA ”

THE COMPLETION OF A ‘TASK.

This is the last issue of the Davidsonian which will be published by
the present staff. For a year it has been our privilege to work for the
students and alumni of Davidson, and to seek for the ‘promotion of all
the best interests of the college. .We have fone our work to the best of
our ability and must rest content with that knowledge. It is for others
to decide whether or not we have done it well. ,

With the publication of this week's issue, it becomes our dtity to
step aside and let the newly elected staff carry forward the work of
the paper, and-we-de'so with the sincere wish that they may profit by
our mistakes and accomplish this task far better than we have ever done.
May the result of their labors be in reality “a ‘bigger and‘a better Da-
vidson through a bigger and a better Davidsonian.” :

| kins.

this year’s Davidsonian what it is.

We get so used to gettirig the David-| touch of a real county fair.

sonian each week that we take it more
or less as a matter of course. It has
Lecome one of the necessities of life
around here, something that we can’t do
without. But we don’t appreciate how
much this paper means to us and to the
college—and if suddenly we were to
wake up and find it gone, we would see
how much it has grown to be a part of
us. |

We read it, we enjoy it, we brag on
it as the best college paper in the South
—but we forget that every weck there
is lots of hard work expended in get-
ting it out. We forget that before the
paper can be gotten out, the business
manager has to work like a Trojan and
vet sufficient advertisements; we forget
that each Thursday night the assignment
editor has to ransack his brain and his
notebook, find out all the happenings
that may have taken place and then send
different assignments to the various re-
porters; we forget that the reporters
have to go out and look up these news
items and write them up; we forget that
cach department editor has to collect
up all the articles going into his col-
unns, correct them, and turn them in to
the managing editor; we forget that
every Monday night the managing editor
and his assistant have to work several
hours in getting the paper into final
shape, heading the articles, putting them
in their places, writing little squibs for
the top and bottom of the front page;
we forget that the editor-in-chief has to
take plenty of time off to write good
editorials; we forget that after the pa-
per comes from the press the circulation
manager and his cohorts have to take
an afternoon off and send them out ‘to
the subscribers—yes, we —simply don’t
know, or if we do, we just forget and
don’t appreciate.

And so I want to take this opportunity
to pay my tribute to those men who,
quietly and faithfully, have given of their
time and energy to make the Davidson-
ian the great paper it now is. Those men
on the staff and the Reporters Club are
a few of the many on this hill who put
cout much but who get little credit from
their fellows—yet their work jis all the
greater because it goes unseen and un-
praised, ® '

Workers for the Davidsonian—you
have worked “hard and well, you have
done your part like men and we are
proud of you for it, you have given us a
paper that is a credit to the college and
we thank you for. it, -you have given your
best that Davidson might be bigger and
better, and we love you for it! 10-16,

* D.
GOLDEN QUILLS AND |
BASKETBALL D’s :
AWARDED FRIDAY

Basketball “D's” were awarded by Dr.
J. M. Douglas, Faculty Representative of
the Athletic Council, between acts of the
Dramatic Club plays Friday night. ‘Dr.
Douglas presented Pat Crawford, J. P.
Pride, G. W. Mauze, C. M. Davis, A. C.
Ormand, Dan Mallory, and M.S. Beall,
as the “finest basketball team Davidson
ever had,” and_presented to them the
well earned “D.” G. H. Cornelson was,
awarded the managers “D.”

Another award was made during the
evening, that of the Golden Quills to the
new members of the Order of the Golden
Quill. The quills were presented by Dr.
Fraser Hood to T. A. Lacy, C. F. Wild-
man, W. M. Heston, E. H. Mauze, A. C.
Wildman, H. M. Morris, and L. D> El-
These men have been prominent
in their contributions to The Davidson-
ian and the award is made ‘in recognition
of their ability along reportorial lines.

T).

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Black, of Green-
wille, S. C, spent the week-end with the

former's mother, Mrs; Emma Black.
. D.

if !

Mrs. Lewis Price spent the week-end

with Statesville relatives.

stands and clowns gave to the whole a
A faculty
“take off,” in which a sham faculty meet-
ing was cleverly executed by the stu-
dents, proved to be a very amusing
climax to an ejoyable evening. A silver
offering was taken at the door to help
finance the construction of a Y. W. C. A.
but.
D.

PROF. G. M. PRICE TALKS
IN OPPOSITION TO DARWIN

On Tuesday evening of last week the
Davidson students and townspeople had
a fine opportunity in hearing a lecture
by Prof. George McRaide Price on the
very interesting subject of Evolution.
Doctor Price is a professor in the Uni-
versity of California, but is now engaged
in a lecture tour throughout the United
States speaking against Evolution.

The speaker quoted from several
speeches delivered by leading scientists
before scientific associations, by which
he sought to show that the “leading
scientists were giving up the fundamental
Lrinciples upon which the Darwinian
theory of Evolution is based. Among
those whom he quoted were Professor
Bateson, the distinguished biologist, and
Professor Scott, who is a very
botanist.

Going on, the speaker outlined four
facts upon which the Darwinian theory
is based: variations, transmission of ac-
quired characters, natural selection, and
the evidence we have from paleontology.
He went on to prove how these theories
were false and, as history shows that
there were gaps in which new species
were formed, that there is no evidence of
sequence of development.

Probably the most interesting part of
his lecture was the illustration of the
Mendellian law, in which he tried to
show that no new species could originate
from the old. He showed that the law
of inheritance-is. based on chromosomes.
According to his statement, no new fea-
tures have been introduced in place of
the development of chromosomes.

Professor Price in his lecture, how-
ever, tore down the facts upon which
the Darwinian theory is based. He fail-
ed, though, to mention any scientist that

able

could explain anything to take the place |

of Darwin’s theory.
D.

FOUR JUNIORS CHOSEN

(Continued from page 1)
isted. But there were also various’ fac-
torssin the past and various important
factors in the world today which bind
us very close together. His’ speech
closed very appropriately with the poem
beginning, “Sail on O Union, strong and
great.”

The speech of Sorrells was also on the
subject of “Anglo-American Friendship.”
He dealt with the matter strictly from
a historical point of view. “From York-
town to Flanders fields, a period of 142
years, Anglo-American friendship has
grown until today its influence stretches
out like a rainbow of hope to the strug-
giing peoples of the world.”

W. A. Gamble showed by statitics how
-fur--short-we-had-—fallen—in- the way of
education. He then told of the Smith-
Towner Bill in Congress, and also of
Dr. Burris’ ‘plan to remedy the ‘situation
The Smith-Towner Bill calls for a Sec-
retary of Education, and the Burris
Plan calls for a Board to be appointed
by the President. In closing he called
on the students of the whole country ‘to
see that this situation was remedied.

“The Influence of Calvinism on our
Institutions,” was the subject of F. S.
Ichnston’s speech. He showed that the
teachings of John ‘Calvin were at the

very root of American ‘freedom and|*

American institutions. “Above all other
doctrinal systems known to man, his-
tory crowns Calvinism as the creed of
saints ‘and heroes.”

W. P. Kimzey brought out the fact

that we are not brave‘enough ‘to publish

debate on the subject: “Resolved, That
it is better to be beautiful and stupid
than homely and brilliant.” The affirm-
ative was warinly defended by the
Freshmen, while the Sophomores nobly
upheld the negative. The judges ren-
dered their decision, two to one in favor
of the affirmative.
D.

Ten college glee clubs, representing
Harvard, Princeton, Yale, Amherst, -Co-
lumbia, Penn State, University of Penn-
slyvania, and Wesleyan, will compete for
the cup given annually by the University
Glee Club of New York, at Carnegie Hall,
New York City, on March 4.

T).

Daddy Spoke a Parable.

Geography Teacher: “Can any of you
tell me what shape the world is in?”
Willie: “Yes’m. Daddy says it’s in a
h— of a shape.”—Mississippian.
D.

LJ:

Popular fiction for the week:

“Let Bygones Be,” by Gones.

“Not,” by A. Jugful.

“Yes,” by George.

“Man Cannot Live,” by Bread A. Lone.

“Rock A,” by Baby.

“The Fly,” by Night.

“Missed,” by A. Mile.

“How to Beat Wall Street,” by Hooker
Crook.—Ex.

D.

SEE THEM AT THE AUTO SHOW.

You may venture a Kiss in a “Kissel”
car—
’Tis done by the young erratic;
You may gaze at the “Moon”
“Willys-(k)night,”
And thrill with emotions ecstatic.
You may act like a Cad in a “Cadillac’—
Tis done by the youth of all nations;
And when you reform, just turn over a
“Paige,”
And resolve to “Dodge” Satan’s temp- .
tations, t
You may huddle up close in a “Hudson
Six’— :
Tis done by the giddy, we find;
You may burn up the dust in a big “Cole
Eight,” .
For a Coal leaves a “(N)ash” behind.
Kut if your soul yearns for a nice quiet
drive ~
In the Bus of thee Undertaker,
Just drive out some night with a friend
and a “Case,”
And get Stewed in a “Stewedebaker.”
D.

Working under the slogan, “Carry-On
Vassar!” wonderful progress has been
made in raising the three million dollar
endowment fund. Vassar has the honor
of having raised $419,000 within six
weeks. Each graduate has been assessed
$250.00 and by novel means, such as es-
tablishing book shops featuring espe-
cially books by Vassar alumnae, by sell-
ing a diversity of wares, as gloves, hair
nets, Kiddie Koops, bulbs and seeds, etc.,
and by presenting plays, giving concerts,
bridge parties, lectures, and other enter-
tainments, they have made much ma-
terial and noteworthy progress,

on ia

University students of Austria and
Germany have developed a Young. Ger-
man movement (Deutschen Jugendmein-
schaften) which seems to be a general

jrevolt against ancient authorities, tra-

ditions and customs. Among the ideas
and habits attacked are militarism, mon-
archy, class distinctions and alcoholism.
The movement is idealistic-patriotic for
the development of a better self and the
aid of the nation in the day of trial. It
takes different forms in different local-
ities, but the general spirit seems the
same.

original ‘ideas ‘no ‘matter ‘how commen-
dable those ideas migtt be, for we fear
public ‘opinion and criticism. “Let‘us not
put our ‘lives ‘into frames ‘fashioned out
of ‘old materiats ‘in ‘the ‘hands of other

‘inen,” he urged.
