THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 28, 1922

_ WILDCATS BLANK
~~ ELONITES

(Continued from Page 1)

assessed 60 yards of penalties which kept
them from scoring. Twice Spratt was called
back after gains of over 10 yards and the
ball was put in play 25 yards in the other
direction.

Captain Perry, of Elon, played. a steady
game and did the punting for the Elonites.
Clarke and Flynn on the flanks did stellar
work, throwing the runners for no gain sev-
eral times.

One of the bright spots of the game was
the Wildcats’ aerial attack. In the first half
one pass was intercepted and one fell incom-
pleted but in the second half six out of seven
passes were made good for a gain of 72
yards. Moore, Crawford and Hendrix
passed with equal skill and Faison, Mallory
and Hastie pulled down the pigskin with un-
erring accuracy.

The gamé play by‘play: ,

FIRST QUARTER.

Regen kicked off 47 yards to Gantz who
returned 18 yards to the 26-yard line. Gantz
plunged through right tackle for five yards.
Kirkland made one over right guard. Ona
wide end run Regen threw Gantz for a loss
of half a yard. Perry punted 38 yards and
Dick returned six yards. Davidson's ball
on her own 46-yard line. Dick fumbled and
Elon recovered. Elon’s ball on Davidson's
37-yard line. Gantz made two over left
guard. Perry gained three off left tackle.
Perry smashes through for another yard.
Perry punted to Davidson's two-yard line.

. Nappy hit right tackle for a one-yard gain.
Shepherd punted 60 yards to Gantz, who
fumbled and recovered on his 37-yard line.
Kirkland skirts right end for one yard. Long
intercepts Perry's pass. Davidson's ball on
Elon’s 34-yard line. Spratt gains three on a
line buck.” Nappy gocs through left tackle
for two yards. Spratt gains six but Clark
is offside. Fourth and ten. “Gantz intercepts
Shepherd’s pass on Elon’s 31-yard line, For-
ward pass is grounded. Tix steps around
left end for four yards. Another pass is in-
complete and Perry punts 39 yards out of
bounds. Davidson’s ball on her 26-yard line.
On an off-tackle play Gig plunges through
for 10 yards and a first down. Spratt hits
right tackle for five yards. Regen punts 44
yards to Gantz who returned nine yards. Fix
fumbles and Nappy recovers on Elon’s 27-

yard linc. Spratt gains five yards,on an off-
tackle buck. arter up. Davidson, 0.
Elon, 0.

SECOND QUARTER.

Davidson's ball on Elon’s 22-yard line.
Second down and five to go., Gig made one
over left guard. Moore hit. right tackle for
five yards and a first down. Nappy hit left
tackle for two yards. Nappy made one yard
around right end. Spratt went through left
tackle and ran 13 yards through the Elon
team to a touchdown. Shepherd’s place kick
went wide. Score: Davidson, 6; Elon, 0.

Smith kicked off 43 yards to Nappy Davis

000

THE

Central Cafeteria
“On the Square”

Entrance Next to
United Cigar Store

on Trade and Tryon

SSSSGeeenEe
“EQUIPMENT acd Lida SPORT"

SPORTING GOODS

.|. ball on Elon’s nine-yard line.

who returned. 22 yards to the 34-yard line.
Nappy was out of bounds on a wide end run.
No gain. Moore plunged through left tackle
for a first down. Spratt slipped through left
tackle for 10 yards. Nappy plunged through
for a four-yard gain. On the next play Da-
vidson was penalized five yards for offside.
Regen’s pass is incomplete. Regen punts 30
yards. Perry fumbles and Montague Clark
recovers. Davidson's ball on Elon’s 16-yard
line. Davis made five yards over left guard.
Davis gained three yards over guard and on
an off-tackle play, Gig made it first down o1
Elon’s six-yard line. Spratt bucked the line
for two yards. Gig went through four yards
to a touchdown. Shepherd’s place kick fail-
ed. Score: Davidson, 12; Elon, 0.

Coach Grey sends in the scrubs. Smith
kicked off 45 yards to Hunt who returns 26
yards'to the 36-yard line, Boggs fumbled
and recovered for a five-yard gain. Martin
on a wide end run gained nine yards. Hunt
made four yards but Davidson was ‘offside.
Ball on Davidson's 44-yard line. Boggs tore
eight yards through center for a first down.
Hunt made six yards through center. Mar-
tin made one yard over guard. Pass, Hen-
drix to Hastie nets 25 yards. Hunt made
five over right guard. Boggs smashes
through center for two yards. Davidson's
Half up.

THIRD QUARTER.
Smith kicked off 25 yards to Cox who re-
turned eight to the 38-yard line. Crawford
gains two yards over right tackle. Craw-
ford fails to gain over left tackle. Regen
punts 29 yards to Perry on Elon’s 31-yard
line. Kirkland fails to gain on a line buck.
On a bad pass from center White broke
through and threw Perry for a 10-yard loss.
Perry punts 39 yards. to Covington who re-
turns 18. Martin hammers through right
tackle for a three-yard gain. Crawford
gains three yards through right tackle. Cov-
ington steps off six yards around right end
for a first down on Elon’s 28-yard line.
Covington gains three over a wide end run.

‘| Crawford hits left tackle for three yards.

Martin gains three yards over right guard.
Fourth down and one to go. Crawford fails
on a line buck and the ball goes over. Elon’s
ball on her 19-yard line. Elon fumbles and
Martin recovers, Davidson's ball on Elon’s
20-yard line. Martin fails to gain on two
line bucks and an end run. Fourth down
and 10 to go. Crawford passes to Faison for
a 13-yard gain. Martin gains one yard on
two line bucks. Hendrix is thrown for a
one-yard loss on an end run. Forward pass
over the goal line, Hendrix to Faison nets
seven yards and a touchdown. Forward
pass from place-kick formation is blocked.
No goal. Score: Davidson, 18; Elon, 0
Smith kicked off 35 yards to Hendrix who
returned 17. Davidson's ball on her 31-yard
line. Regen steps off 29/yards around right
emt: —Martin—gaing-seven-over left tackle.
Crawford gains four yards over tackle for a
first down. Covington makes’ six yards over
left tackle. Martin skirts right end for five
yards and a first down. Davidson’s ball on
Elon’s 20-yard line. Quarter up:

FOURTH QUARTER,
The first team goes back in.

gained five yards over right tackle. Out of
bounds. Shepherd plunges through center
for two yards. Moore hits left tackle for
an ecight-yard gain and first down. David-
son’s ha'l on Elon’s five-yard line. Hunt
makes’ three yards over left, tackle. Shep-
herd carries the hall: over for a touchdown.
Moore's -forward. pass failed. otis Da-
videoo, 24; Re as, 0. E

Shepherd

Bill’s Bull

One big one gone, gang!
ber two!!

Let’s get num-

—WILDCATS— -

1919—Davidson, 0; P. C. 0.
1920—Davidson, 0; P. C, 7.
1921—Davidson, 7; P. C. 0.
1922—Davidson, ?; P. C. ?
Get ’Em Cats!

—WILDCATS—

Dick’s 34-yard sprint through the whole
Elon team earns first prize in Saturday's
game, while second prize goes to Hastie and
Hendrix for their 25-yard pass. Mallory
cops the booby prize of a diamond-studded
stomach pump with his “Here Coach!”

Boy! Page Charlie!!

—WILpcATs—

Wake Forest was the only other North
Carolina college team in action last week.
The Baptist had an casy time of it, running
over Atlantic Christian College, 34-0. The
Wildcats tie up with Hard-shelled lads on
October 14 to avenge the defeat of last
year. Can we do it? Wilt we do it? Ask
Big Mac—he knows,

—WILDCATS—

Our Presbyterian brethren in Virginia
Hampden-Sidney, fared rather poorly on
Saturday, going down before V. P. I. to a
38-0 defeat. Last year the Cadets were hard
pressed to nose out a 13-7 victory and H.-S.
is looking forward to a better season -this
year than last. Looks like our Home-Com-
ing Day opponents mean business.

—-WILDCATS-—

And that reminds 1s—October 21 has been
chosen as Home-Coming Day by the powers
that be. V..P. I. will be the main attraction
on Sprunt Field on that day and a hot affair

is assured. Talk it up gang! 4

—WILDCATS—

Despite the fact that the Wildcats .take a
trip this week, local gridiron fans have a
treat in store for them. Dick Grey, Riggs
McConnell and Company tie up with Con-
cord Hi, and a hattle royal is promised.

Perry gains five yards on two tackle plays.
Hainer goes through left tackle for two
yards. Perry punts out of bounds to Da-
vidson's 32-yard line. Gig gained nine yards
over tackle. Spratt circled left end for 16
yards and first down. Hunter gained five
over right tackle but Davidson was penal-
ized 15 yards for holding. Davidson penal-
ized 45 yards for unnecessary roughness.
Third down and 40 yards to go. Qn a per-
fect fake, Dick turned and raced 34 yards
through the entire Elon team for the longest
gain of the day. Moore made 12 yards but
Davidson was penalized 15 yards for hold-
ing. Ilunter punted back ‘of the line from
the 44-yard mark. Elon’s ball on her 20-
yard line. Forward pass falls incomplete.
McAdams gains four yards through .center.
Perry’s pass is grounded. Perry punts 26

yard line, Dick fails to complete pass.
Spratt loses one yard on an end run. surat
passes: 11-yards to Mallory for a first down:
‘Spratt gains four yards. Davidson is: pena-

anol yards for holding. Socatt gasses 15

yards and Moore returns four to Elon’s Cd

fight tackle. Elon’s ball on her 40-yard line,

Time up.
DAVIDSON (24 ELON (0)
POSITION
Regen ..........6. SUCH UNO DONESIOG Clark
Left End
(OF ye ernie mie OL GOOERE Kit G. Brown
Left Tackle
BUGIS isae sae uceenanneleter ta cir Whitesell
Left Guard
Bile i iva tetaieas letasnheches Braxton
Center :
| ERI ICG OOU CUT OOH SOD High
Right Guard
McMasters ........ SHTOGCTOOUETNG Smith
Right Tackle
alsOn 2h 5.0 ee enroae heh cua va eihia Flynn
Right End
Dibk ttiicasnaueountetean tans Perry (c)
Quarterback
Shepherd ......... HAH ScLRa Ge bGA in Gantz
Left Half ° x
Moore:(0) 3) i aivacmnenin sar rs Kirkland
Right Half
Davis, C. M. ........ Sf Goa RIe McAdams

Fullback

Touchdowns—Moore, 1; Shepherd, 2;
Faison, 1. Umpire—MacDule (N. C.
State) ; Referee—Major (Clemson); Head
Linesman—Hill (S. C.). Time of quarters
—12; 15; 12; 15.

Substitutions—Davidson: Hunt for Davis;
Martin for Moore; Boggs for Shepherd;
Hendrix for Dick; Hasty for Faison;
White for McMasters; Baldwin for Long;
Briggs for Brice; Summers for Fields; Cox
for Clark; Mallory for Regen; Hodgin for
Baldwin; Crawford for Martin; Martin for
Hunt; Covington for Boggs; Faison for
Hasty; Regen for Mallory; Hunt for Mar-
tin; Shepherd for Covington; Moore for
Crawford; Dick for Hendrix; Fields for
Summers; Long for Hodgin; Brice for
Briggs; Clarke for Cox; McMasters for
White; Mallory for Regen; Davis for Fai-
son; Hunter for Shepherd. Elon: Fix for
Kirkland; Hainer for Fix;\A. Brown for G.
Brown; Barker for Braxton; Braxton for
High; Lawson for Braxton; G. Brown for
Gantz; Braxton for Barker; Fix for Kirk-
land,

D.C. Elon

First downs ...........0.000005 20 0
Yards penalized ............... 75 0
Yards gained on running plays.. 277 34
Yards lost <s73 000.6... cecee econ 2 34
Yards gained on forward passes. 72 0
Net xtotal S Missa cincats 347 24
Average length punts .......... 41 33
Average return punts .......... 6 2
Average length kick-off ........ 45 37
‘Average return kick-off ........ 18 20
Passes attempted .............. 9 4
Passes completed ............... 6 0
Passes intercepted ............. 1 1
MUMBO soc cd eeccs cess Zi 4
Opponents fumbles recovered... 3 1
Own fumbles recovered ........ 1 1
YARDS GAINED ON: RUNNING
PLAYS.
No. Times Net Yards
Carried

Individual Ball Gained
Moore - 13 78
Shepherd 9 42
Dick ... 2 %
Martin™ 11 2
Regen .. 1 20
Davis 8 18
Covington . 3° 15
cea 3- 15
Steet eteeesege 3 4
eeverecccess, 6 == 7 12
VésverceRieyes ” ds i |.

Gantz ..........+- Wetiaso 7
TER es ccoc sissies ete 6 5
McAdams ..........-- 1 4
MISE oh esc cb ieceseee ss 1 4
Hainer... .....ceeeee ; 2
Kirkland ...........+ 2
FORWARD pANREA

No. Yds.
Hendrix to Hastie .............+ 1 2
Hendrix to Faison ............3- 1 7
Crawford to Faison ............. 1 13
Moore to Mallory ............+++ 2 2
Moore to Dick .......... Persuiies 1 1

T).

|.|| ADVANCE DOPE POINTS TO.

CLOSE GAME WITH P. C.

From the dope that one sees in the South
Carolina’ papers on Presbyterian College it
could be considered as nihil. But it is-hardly
likely that the Blue and White are taking
life as easy as it might seem. When the
crucial time comes, they always seem to be
able to deliver the goods, especially against
the Wildcats. ”

In the three years that the two Calvan-
istic teams have met, the Wildcats have been
able to score only once. Although the op-
posing team hasn’t been able to do better,
the dope has always been in favor of the
Davidsonians. Both teams have the reputa-
tion of being the hardest fighting aggrega-
tions in their respective states and the. con-
test always results in a close score.

Since Saturday's game, Coach Grey has
been able to strengthen the weaknesses
shown against Elon and is prepared to give
the South Carolinians the fight of their lives,

The circumstances favor P. C. in that they
will meet their enemy on their home grounds.
It was there that they defeated the Cats
two years ago, and it is there that they ex-
pect to repeat the feat. So we may expect
a battle royal next Friday when the sup-
porters of the Red and Black reach Clinton.

T).

COACH FOSTER AIDING
RED AND BLACK MEN

Davidson is indeed fortunate in having

~|her coaching staff strengthened by the addi-

tion of Coach Foster.

Mr. Foster, for several years coach at,
Porté Military School and for two years
coach of the University of South Carolina
“Gamecocks.’ is a Virginian and a graduate
of Hampton-Sidney, College.

On the field Coach Foster appears in a
baseball uniform, a reminder that he is the
owner of the Columbia team of the “Sally”
league. ‘This team was a prominent con-
tender for league honors this season.

While the students as a whole have seen
very little of Coach Foster on the campus
they can see the results of his assistance
already in the condition of the teams, They
are glad to have Coach Foster here and they
hope he will find his stay here as pleasant
as they believe it will be advantageous for
the team.

With the coaching forces so ably aug-
mented the prospects for a winning teant
are brighter than ever.

MANAGERS FOR CLASS
“TEAMS IN BASKETBALL

The first stone was thrown in class basket-
ball Tuesday morning when each class’
hopeful basketeers met to choose their mana-
gers. If the managers throw any light. on
the coming teams, the season will be great.
George (War-Horse) Mauze manages last
year’s championship team, this year's
Seniors; Angus M. MacBryde, the Juniors;
Ted Covington, the Sophomores, and Potts,
the budding Freshmen with Mauze as their
coach,

Practice started Tuesday night. The
Seniots promise a good team, although

| Bradley and Toney are the only men left ”

from last year’s five. The Juniors fared
better, having from last year’s team Elkins,
MacBryde and “Spec” MacConnell, while .
the Sophomores suffered only the loss of
Beall” The Freshmen are still an unknown
quantity, but with the many “bright lights”
from the prep schools and-high schools they
promise a good fight.

The proprietor was at his wits’ wait but
because of the scarcity of available help and

