4 ‘

The DAVIDSONIAN ies

North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
wee thar Of Boutin Colarie Prics Mecca

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

i for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
“ PrEBROLS, Ry) received from an unknown source will not be published.

Scsupaeosnenee Editor-in-Chief

i i i aC Editor
--First Managing Editor Phen 05 --Campus i
Second Matieiig Editor . H. ae yy ee
-Assignment Editor +r --Socia! jitor
Athletic Editor . M iterary Editor
-Alumni Editor Z. < Press Editor
W. M. COX Exch Editor :
’
REPORTERS’ CLUB
®
VE MOFFETT, A. N.
BROWN, W. P., Pres. ONES, J. R. I ,
SMITH, R. H, Vice-Pres. ONES, R. R. ett tank 6
BROWN, C. V., Sec-Treas. NOX, W. I. pa ib Lat
ALLISON, O. J. LACY, T. A. PRIC ‘. H, B.
BITZER, McILWAINE, C. M. TULLER, C. D.
CALHOUN, M, P. McIVER, D. D, WALTHALL, D,_B.
EARNEST, J. R. MAUZE, G. W, WHARTON, D. B.
FEWELL, ED. SHARPE, W. H. WILDMAN, A, C.

ters: Graves, R. N., Lake, J. A., Galloway, W. F., White, R. G.,
Crom Be Riiliteus J. F, Pomeroy, Ww. L,, Williams, J. M., McLean, S., Weeks,
G. E., Jones, J. R., Regen, C. D., McLain, W. A., Briggs, J. R.
BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
HResstercacosss> Business Manager

W. J. COOPE ;
JAMES ALLEN, J. H, DAVIS, G. E. WEEKS, W. G. GUILLE Asst. Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:

WATT MCcCAIN.....-.-.- Circulation Manager A n in Circul: io ,, Depar: lent:
3. C. FAIN i i " . B. LILES E, THROWER
S.C, FAINZ 22222-22222 Asst. Circulation Mgr. me DOO ATA J" AL THOMBSON

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

HE rains that visited us so continuously last week might be very

l useful in improving the looks of the campus, especially when aid-
ed by the pleasant weather that followed. If we would let the

grass get the benefit of all the new life and beauty that the downpour
brought it, and not walk all over it in numerous little short cuts nor
trample it down in front Of the dormitories by playing ball there, our
campus would soon be the prettiest in this part of the country.

D—

Success does not consist of being applauded for something we do,
but in doing something worthy of applause.

1)}——,

—

Consisidering the opposition thatSenator Lodge gave the Democrats |

while they were in power, opposing practically every important meas-

ure that President Wilson favored, it seems very natural, particularly

under present conditions, to see an influential Massachusetts Democrat

announce his candidacy for Lodge’s seat. Col. William Gaston, of Bos-

ton, may be able to show him that the people of their state want a

change in the manner in which they are represented in the future.
p—

The class of ’21 carried off the cup in the last Field Day that we had,
before the admiring eyes of a large number of girls from Queens, Every
man can be out to uphold his class in its efforts to accomplish the feat
this year. The prospect for well-matched teams and much competition

is good, and everything possible is being done to make the occasion this
year a big success. Let’s all go.

ae p neuen
Our custom of spreading a “fire” alarm all around the campus when-
ever fair visitors approach is a very ancient and usually pleasant thing

for us, but we should be careful to see that it does not cause any anger
or embarrassment on the part of others as was nearly the case recently.

4D)
THANKS TO WAKE FOREST.

The North Carolina college papers are very fortunate in having a
college press association. Its semi-annual meetings have been beneficial
to all concerned, and while our association is still young, at each of the
conventions we have seen our need for furthering the growing spirit
of unity and mutual assistance now arising between the college pub-
lications, and have been trying to meet this need.

Especially do we all feel grateful to.Wake Forest for the splendid
way inwhich they handled this spring’s convention, making such a suc-

cess of every feature of it. Congratulations to the Old Gold and Black,
and the Wake Forest Student. :

eae y nines
A STANDARD COLLEGE RING.

The class rings that began arriving some time ago are certainly quite

in evidence these days. ’23 spent a good deal of time in selecting these,
and the result seems to be a ring that practically every member of the
class is pleased with, and one that is drawing many favorable comments
from other students here and elsewhere.

Most colleges have and every college needs a standard school ring.
There has been a demand for one atDavidson for some time and various
attempts have been made to fill-it. Each class has always found fault with
what their predecessors chose, however, and nothing has been accom-
plished.

When Davidson adopts a standard ring,
is distinctive ; something, also, that the school as a whole and each man
will be glad to have for its beauty., While the new ring is not perfect,
it has many attractive and distinctive features. With a few changes, a
college ring could be adopted from this model that would have a much
pete wide-spread acceptance than anything we have previously had

- here.

she wants something that

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 28, 1922.

Open Forum

Working for Davidson.

“The time has come, the walrus said,
to talk of many things.” April is half
gone; the end of school is in sight and
its high time that we begin to make
pians for next year. All of us are in-
terested in old Davidson and the most
interesting thing about Davidson is her
men. The students have the reputation
of their college in their hands. They
can cither dim or brighten the réputa-
tion of the school abroad. In fact it is
essential to the welfaregof the college
and is to the interest 6% every man in
cullege to get a good Sunch of Fresh-
men here next year.
High School is now thinking of where
he is going to college. Many are trying
to decide between Davidson and some
|other college. Nothing can do more
|good in bringing these boys here than
la personal letter from you. All of you

| know good boys at, home or at your old|

| prep school. Why not take a few min-
| utes off and write a letter to some of
|tltese prospects and let them know of
the virtues of old D. C.? This is the

men who are doubtful to come to our
college. Let's get busy and get the men
we want and not take the leavings.

A Dreamer.
D. C

R. ; Vv. P.
From the earliest of civilizations to

the present day the development of both
mind and body has been emphasized,
although in different ages the develop-
ment of one has not been stressed quite
so strongly as the development of the
other, Today we recognize the ancient
Greeks as a race who developed the
hody as well as the mind. The men who
won the laurels in the Olympic games
gave to the youth a perfect example of
an efficient body. And who can deny
that the schools of Socrates and Plato
did not as ably develop the mind as the
rigoroas gymnastics of that age
velop the body,

Following the Grecian idea the ma-
jority of éducational institutions of the
present day stress the care and devolop-
ment of the body almost as much as
they do the training of the mind. They
recognize that the condition of the body
controls, to a large extent, the state of
the mind. The care and condition of
the bodies of the students in general
should be stressed more than it is at
Davidson.

In spite of the fact that a large num-
ber of men go out for the different forms
of athletics they compose only about
cne-third of the student body. What
then are the remaining two-thirds to do
to keep fit throughout .the year? Also,
what are those men who go out for one
class of athletics to do to keep fit when
that form of athletics is out of season?
There is one form of exercise that prac-
tically every man can take and, although
some do not like it at first, those who
take it often soon like it so well that
they take it regularly. It is “gym” work.
' Davidson, in past years, had gymna-
sium teams whose pictures we can find
in old number of Quips and Cranks. The
men on these teams made trips and an
observer of an exhibition given by one
of these teams said that it was one of the
most interesting performances he had
ever seek, The student body has grown
in size since the time when these teams
were organized and Davidson should
now be able to develop just as good if
not a better team than the one that was
put out several years ago. But little in-
terest is taken in “gym” work and one
of the reasons that there is not more
is because of the bad condition of the
equipment.

The outdoor gymnasium has only one
pair of parallel bars that can be used.
The other pair which was broken sey-
tral years ago has never been fixed.
There are one or two other breaks in
this gym which show that it is being
gradually allowed to run down while if
it is given a little care to keep it in shape
it will be of use for years to come. But
the most evident lack of equipment is in
the gymnasium building itself. We have
a fine building but where is the equip-
ment which is usually found in a gym;
such as the parallel bars, the trapeze,
the punching bag—not to mention well-
equipped locker rooms. True, there are
mats but even these are in such bad con-
dition that they haveto -be covered with

de-

|The Elon debating team at Lenoir was
- Elon College, N. C., April 26—The an-|

Every senior in| Literary Society was given Saturday|

best way in the world to persuade any |

With Other Colleges

Elon College, N. C., April 26—In the
Elon-Lenoir debate last Wednesday
evening, Elon won the negative side of
the question at home and lost the affir-
mative at Lenoir. The query, “Resolved,
that the federal government should own
and operate the railroads,” was discuss-
ed well by both teams. J. L. Norris and
H. J. Rhyne upheld the affirmative for
Lenoir, here, while M. L. Patrick and H.
G. Self, of Elon, supported the negative.

Miss Lucy Austin and R. S. Rainey.

nual entertainment of the

Psiphelian |
evening and it proved to be one of the
most interesting occasions of the col-
lege year. The society ‘presented the
play, “Rosemary,” by Arolyn Cutting.
The cast was entirely female, and each
young lady performed her part well.
The scene of the play was in Boston, and
the time during the Civil War.

D.

DAVIDSON GLEE CLUB MAKES
LAST TRIP OF 1922 SEASON

A trip to Queens College and to
Lenoir, N, C,, the first part of last week
ended the schedule of the Davidson Glee
Club this year. The concert at Queens
was followed by a reception in honor of
the Davidson en. Members of the
Wake Forest Ge Club which perform-
ed in Charlotte the same evening were
present, also a few men from N. C, State
College.. The evening was much enjoyed
by all and was all too soon brought to a
close. by thé evening bell,

The'trip to Lenoir proved to be one
of the most successful excursions of the
year. The club was royally entertained
in private homes and at a dance after
the performance was over. At the con-
cert, all members of the club were feel-
ing their best and rendered the program
well. All members were well received
by the audience and at times brought
down thunderous applause which had
its share in making the program a suc-
cess,

Lenoir is the home town of Doug
Barnhardt who attended to all the ar-
rangements for the entertainment of
the club and to the advertisement of the
concert.

At both concerts the numbers ‘were
practically the same differing only in the
amount of pep with which they were
given,

LOYALTY.

What would life be without Loy-
alty? Loyalty is the finest fibre
in the human breast—it rewards
alike the humble and the great—
makes the small man big and the
big man bigger.

Take Loyalty from the heart of
a saint and you have the likeness
of a devil.

The greatest thing in life is man’s
loyalty to man—that heart quality
of true manhood—that innate
stamp of fair play which prompts
us to hand out the square deal in-
stead of the double cross.—
Selected.

There were a number of out of town
visitors here over Sunday. Among them
were Miss Elinor Waston, Mr. and Mrs.
Frank Brown and family, of Salisbury;
Mr. and Mrs. Fred Tompson, of Moores-
ville; Mrs. J. J. Dupuy, formerly of Da-
vidson, and Mrs. W. L. Lingle, of Rich-
‘mond, Va.

D=——

D.

Mrs, A. Currie attended the Kings
Mountain Presbyterial at Shelby this
week, and made an address to that body.

canvass before the wrestling team can
use them.

The equipment should be as good as
the building. This would cause more
men to use the gym as a gymnasium. It
would give anyone who wished the op-
portunity to become an expert in gym
work and what is more important it
would give an opportunity to every man
in the student body to develop any part
of his body which needs developing;
brain included. :

» An Athfete.,

%
A? 4

Oe

DDS

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

Remember This One?

A farmer’s son sitting on a rail fence
was accosted ‘by a stranger from’ the
city, who opened the conservation as
follows:

“Potatoes don’t look very good, do
they?”

“Can't” drawled the rustic, “their eyes
is full of dirt.”

“Corn seems sort of yellow,” continued
the stranger, venturing on a new sub-
ject.

“Yep,” answered the boy, “that’s the
kind we planted.”

“You won’t get more than half a crop,”
persisted the stranger.

“Don’t expect to,” replied the boy,
“the landlord gets the other half.”

“You aren’t far from a fool,” retorted
the stranger,

“Not mor’n ten. feet,”. countered the
boy. .

And the city chap moved on.—Purple
and Gold. M

Ain’t it the Truth?
It may be a mansion,
It may be a dump,
It may be a farm’
With an old oaken pump;

It may be a palace,
It may bea flat,

It may be a room ‘
Where you hang up your hat;

It may be a house
With a hole in the floor,
Or marble hotel

With a coon at the door;

It may be exclusive,
Or simple or swell,
A wee bit of heaven
Or one little—well.

Just kindly remember,
Wherever you roam,
That Shakespeare was right, kid—

There’s no ‘
Place
Like
Home! —Selected.

Columbia University has an enroll-
ment in excess of thirty-one thousand
for the spring term which entitles it to
the distinction of having the largest stu-
dent body in the world.

Insight.

A little boy from Canada, who had‘
never seen a negro, was riding in New
York with his uncle when he spied a
colored lady. :

“Uncle, why does that woman. black’:
her face?”

“She doesn’t; that’s her natural color.”

“Is she black like that all over?” the
boy asked.

“Why, yes,” uncle replied.

The boy looked up bemeaningly at his
uncle, “Gee, uncle, you know everything,
don’t you?”—Ex,

Latest Song Hits.

“Short Sheets Make the Bed Seem
Longer.”

“A Miss is as Good as a Mrs.” ‘

“They Don’t Serve Spoons with Coffee
"Cause the Music is so Stirring.”

“I Never Knew that Red Meant Dan-
ger ’Till I Saw it on Her Cheek.”—How-
ard, Crimson.

The College Spirit.
The curfew tolls the knell of parting

day,

The quarterback limps slowly o’er the
lea;

He bears no marks resulting from the
fray

Except a broken nose and _ twisted

knee.
Tis true he lost a yard or two of skin
And bears a shanty underneath. his
eye;
Mere trifles, these, which only make him
grin,
And say “You otight to see the other
guy 1”
And thus the college spirit ever burns;
In classics he may be a trifle slow,
And while for a degree he never yearns,
He has a highly educated toe.
—Ex. *
