4.05

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 26, 1922

The: DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill’

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
p. m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

. F. VIDSON......seeeeee Editor-in-Chiel H, H. SMITH.........- eects Forum Editor
t D. TALKING weeeers First Managing Editor R. C, AIKEN.. «Campus Editor
W. M. HESTON Second Managing Editor D, H, OGDEN. M. C. A. Editor
R. R. JONES... -Assignment Editor W. ‘T. ELLIOTT -..Social Editor
E. H. MAUZE. See eT plies all; ay MOD othe, ‘editor

¥y Y . . * se BNADPBPUORD eee seer eweee ~:
SP EO NeE Ee COX. aorcoveee Exchange Editor
BO cae PRESS BUREAU
W. Z. BRADFORD.......ee eee eeeeee Mahager W. F. GALLOWAY...%5.. Assistant Manager
cyan MILTON, W. I
2 . A, COX, L. P. MILTON, . EK.
MODELBY. J, M. SMITH, C. F. McLEOD, W. C.

- BUSINESS DEPARTMENT _

Ww. J. Slee Rapnca pga RL CURE ay Avene suitors
. “E, J. H. DAVIS, G. E. WEEKS a ~G.G VLE . Advertising Solicitors
RAMs NGCUTCHEN Cini Office PERG E. J. ROSCH.. Advertising Copy
CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT ; =
WATT MCCAIN........ Circulation Manager S. C. FAIN......++.- Asst, Circulation Mgr.
Assistants vee
R. B. LILES Ek. C. MOOMAW J. A. THOMPSON
REPORTERS’ CLUB
» W._P., Pres. GALLOWAY, W. F. PRICE, H. B,
SMITH RY H'ViewPres. = TAKE i ‘Act Jt SHARBE, W. I.
BROW no Ni Sec-Treas. McILW2 INE C. M. WES 8)
a c N , D. B.
CXTHOUN, MOP. MAUZE, G W. WILDMAN, A. C.
FARNESE R. MOFFETT A, N WILLIAMS, J. M.
FEWELL, ED. MOORE, W. H

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible,

A good annual is a credit to every college. Perhaps the pictures that we
just finished selecting may be of value in helping ours this year, perhaps. not,
but anything else that we can do to insure the success of this year’s issue
ought to be done,

D.

SPIRIT THAT WINS

HE pep meeting that was held Saturday morning certainly was. beneficial.

The men on our football team work for Davidson and her fame as hard
as any other members of the student body. If we are going to show them how
much we appreciate what they do, we must certainly let them know that we
are behind them, and get out on Sprunt Field, or wherever we are attending
a game,.and prove it. The fight that a team puts up for a student body that
really backs them and gets out and scraps with them, is the fight that always
wins, :

When we heard the team say what they wanted to do, we all knew that
they meant it. The team that came from V. P. I. had been heralded far and
wide, but the Wildcats still have their record for not suffering defeat on
Sprunt Field that they had before the game. None of us could want a more
determined team than was on the field Saturday. With them fighting in that
way, there can be no doubt as to the successfulness of this season. We must
show them that we mean business and will give them the support that they so
richly deserve. 2 -

D

YOUR ROOM

HEN last Spring Mr. Jackson proposed the idea that we have a matron

this year to keep the rooms and dormitories in the shape in which they
should be kept, everyone wondered how it would work. None disputed the
fact that these rooms were not being cleaned and kept as they should, but the
difficulties in the way of starting such a practice at Davidson did loom rather
large.

Now the idea has become a reality, and we have had six weeks to see how
well it works. No more competent and interested lady could be in charge than
the one we have. Mrs, Smith is doing all in her power to make our rooms
look neat and clean. More efficient janitor service is being given by those
doing that work. No longer is dust and dirt evident in so many places. It
now rests practically with each individual how_neat he wants his room. If we
will keep our belongings straight and orderly, everything else will be done for
us. Can’t we get interested and make our rooms look as they. should!

D:

ON WITH THE CAMPAIGN!

P ROBABLY never before has Davidson been the scene of such enthusiastic
campaigning as took place here last Wednesday. The spirit that began in
chapel that morning was manifested throughout the whole day, and the
achievement that was made will stand out prominently in our minds for years.
The division of quota to the different classes gave them each a goal that
inspired them and was probably one of the causes of such success.The interest
that the committeemen in each class showed, and the way that some of them
labored until late that night in order that their class might not come out without
its share of praise was greatly to be commended.
Enough praise cannot be given Mr. Lockhart for the way in which he
engineered the campaign here. The part that the Davidson campus has raised
is not large in itself, yet it does sound good to say that every man in the upper
classes has subscribed a part of the just $100,000 raised. .We know how bad
Davidson needs what this campaign will bring us, and this shows that we are
' anxious and willing to give to see her get it. +All of us are watching with
interest its progress and hope that nothing will hinder the efforts that are being
: made to bring succe8s to the whole campaign.

- OPEN FORUM

—aAnd Then Some

The Editor of The Davidsonian re-
cently had a strong article urging that
the great amount of needless and
harmful noise be eliminated. That
matters are in a bad way is indicated
by the constitutional amendments pro-
posed by the Stydent Council which
will, extend the time in which musical

“Titisttiiménts and unfiecessary noise will

be constitutionally prohibited.

This noise nuisance has been bad for
several years, but it seems to be worse
this fall. Why has it been permitted?
Davidson’s vaunted honor system
would be an empty boast if it were not
true, as we believe it is, that the
majority of our students came here
with study as their prime object. Then
why does this majority sit idly by and
let a few fellows who came just be-
cause their parents sent them or to
spend their father’s money, rob them
of their right to get their work done
under proper conditions ?

Disturbing the men who want to
study is as-certainly robbery as it is to
take any other of their property, and
in some respects is a worse crime, for
while time can be stolen it cannot be
returned, There are many fellows
here who are here on money for which
they have sweated; money for which
their mothers have taken in sewing and
their’ fathers and sisters and younger
brothers denied themselves the bare
comforts of life; money which
churches and church boards have sup-
plied from all too small treasuries;
money which the college itself and its
loan funds have supplied. ‘To deprive
these men of the conditions which will
enable them to get the most from their
courses is surely robbery, and a just
God will not hold guiltless the offend-
ing students or those who allow the
abuses to go on.

Fellows, the proposed aniéndments
are not by any means too strict. They
could with good reason be more strict.
We should by all means pass them and
support them. And we should do
more, The amendments when passed
will still leave earnest students at the
mercy of the thoughtless ones from
seven in the morning until seven-thirty
at night. Let us not, however, steal
time even in daylight. We should
create—through the Y. M. C. A., the
Student Council, the classes and other
organizations—a strong sentiment for
real quict, a quiet with the penalty for
its violation the prompt and hearty
condemnation of the student body and
other action when necessaty. David-
son is pot a prep school, not a picnic,
not a winter frolic, but a college where
men are trying to prepare themselves
to serve their fellowman efficiently,

What are the abuses we should
eliminate? Below is a list of some. of
the things which break into the train of

men, think whether or not you could
study efficiently with these noises about
vou, and let us all determine that if we
have been offending in any of these
ways or others we will remember our
neighbors and be real true unselfish
gentlemen, worthy of a son of David-
son! :

“Noises” from all kinds of musical
instruments, including graphophones.

Shrill. whistling in the halls,

Loud “singing” in the halls,

Night “singing” by quartettes near
the dormitories,

Yelling from one dormitory to an-
other or from the ground up to a dor-
mitory room.

Bouncing balls and bumping: sticks

on the walls and floors of halls and
rooms,

“Get
Bam!”
Bull feasts.

over, Fresh! 3am! Bam!

OBITER DICTA.
Das

TOWN NEWS

Mr. and Mrs. O. J. Thies, of Char-
lotte, spent Sunday with Mr. and Mrs,
O. J. Thies, Jr.

Mrs. T. W. Lingle has returned
from a visit to her mother and sisters
at Staunton, Va. 3

Mr. and Mrs. Osbourne Barringer,
of Charlotte, motored over from Char-
lotte to see the V. P. I.-Davidson

game, Saturday. ,

thought of other fellows. Look it over, |

J

‘fi
EXCHANGE il

GOLUMN ||!)
iene) ed
The Rule of Three

Three things to fight for—honor,
country and home.

Three things to think about—life,
death and eternity.

Three things to govern—temper,
tongue and conduct.

Three things to love—courage, gen-
tleness and _ affection.

Three things to hate—cruelty, arro-
gance and ingratitude.

Three things to delight in—frank-
ness, freedom and beauty.

Three things to avoid—idleness,
loquacity and flippant jesting.

Three things to wish for—health,
friends and a cheerful spirit.

Three things to admire—intellectual
power, dignity and gracefulness.——
Maroon and Gold.

“Well, well,” said the absent-minded
professor, as he stood knee-deep in the
bath tub, “what did I get in here for?”
—Miss Hts, Rev. :

‘ In the millions of answers to ques-
tions ‘turned in by applicants for fed-
eral jobs, some “gems” are discov-
ered. One applicant declared the
largest sound in the State of Washing-
ton is “the roaring of the waves.” One
stated that the feminine of czar is
“bazaar,” and that the plural of solo
is “duet.”

Here are a few taken at random
from the political economy list:

Question—Name two of the princi-
pal functions of money.

Answer—To have and to hold.

Question—Name eleven Arctic
animals, d

Answer—Five polar bears and six
seals,

Another question was: “Who wrote
‘Home, Sweet Home’ ?”

The illuminating answer
“Homer.”

One applicant for examination gave
as the place of his birth, “the second
floor back room of my father’s house.”

Another stated that the length of:his
legal residence was “42 feet.”—Ohio
State Journal.

was—

“I'm cutting quite a figure,” said the
chorus girl as she sat on the broken
bottle.—R. M. A. Sabre.

Taint no joke; just good sense
“If you ain’t got nothin’
And your gal ain’t got nothin’
Don't be in a hurry to wed—
Cause nothin’ plus nothin’ gives
nothin’ ,

And nothin’ don’t chew like bread.—
Bx!

Farmer Boy—Father, kin I go to
the circus tonight with Hiram Home-
spun ?

Father—Naw, ’tain’t more’n a
month sense yer went t’ top o’ the hill
to see the eclipse of the moon. *Pears
to me yow want’er be on the go all the
hull time."—Ex,

Wife at breakfast—‘Could I have a
little money for shopping today, dear?”

Hushand—" Certainly. Would you
rather have an old five or a new one?”

Wife—“A new one, of course.”

Husband—“Here’s the one—and
I'm four dollars to the good.”—Law-
rentian.

The teacher was describing the
dolphin and its habits. “And chil-
dren,” she said impressively, a single
dolphin will have two thousand oft-
springs.” —-

“Goodness,” gasped a little girl on
the back row. “And how about mar-
tied ones ?’’—Miss. Hts. Rev.

Sweetheart of Bite a Pie

Oh, the flapper girl is a different girl
. From the girl of tong ago,

GLEE CLUB TRY-OUTS WILL
TAME PLAGE THIS WEEK-EAD

Many Places Left Vacant for
New Aspirants

Sefore the Wildcat Glee Club is
able to break forth in melodious mon-
strosities it is necessary to have all old
men and newcomers to hold a grand
pow wow within the portals of Shearer
Hall. This antique edifice has under-
gone such struggles for many moons,
and is destined to do so for many more
until the good people of this beautiful
Southland decide, through their un-
failing generosity, to provide Old Da-
vidson with more substantial and pic-
turesque mansions. Therefore, all
men who are vocal or string athletes
are asked to meet in the aforemen-
tioned building the latter part of the
week for a light try-out. The exact
date for the meeting will be announced
later.

Quite a few of last year’s head-
liners have not returned and conse-
quently several places are to be filled
by this year’s aspirants. Pat Mc-
Geachey, who so successfully led the
Glee Club to victory last year, will not
be in evidence this season. His deep .
bass voice is missed especially in the
quartette. Others whose places are to
be filled are Henry Myers, first tenor;
Harold McKiethan, lead; Bill Crane,
Bass, and Bugs Robinson, baritone.
The absence of these visionary de-
lights will necessitate the acquiring of
front row men. Naturally the manage-
ment desires the prettiest sofa hounds,
and most polished tea sippers that the
student body affords. If you are not
well versed in the above you will not
be barred from the try-out, however.

Last year the club had some good
trips, but much better ones are prom-
ised for this season. Converse, N. C.
C, W., Winthrop and other colleges
being on the list. ‘The management is
trying to arrange a schedule so that all
performances can be given this fall,
Professor Erwin has announced that
the Glee Club and Dramatic Club will
combine and present a minstrel show
during Senior week,

Last year the club departed from its
usual program by using a burlesque
opera and a one-act play, and it is
assured that a varied program will be
formulated ; containing many popular
selections as well as some old-time
melodies. The quartette, made up of
Vie Brown, Bob McLeod, Ted Jones
and Ralph Boggs have been singing in
various parts of the State in the inter-
est of the Davidson College Campaign,
and consequently are in tip top condi-
tion for a strenuous program. ‘The
Wildcat orchestra, not to mention the
various other jazz kings, will also be
in the limelight.

With her hennaed head and her morals
dead,

And her face like a cake of dough.

Her speech it is bold and her socks are
rolled,
And brazen the light in her eye;
She drinks and° she pets and she
., Smokes cigarettes,
She’s the sweetheart of some other
guy.—Hampton-Sidney Tiger.

Next

First Liar—It’s so hot at my home
that I can set a pan of water in the
yard and it will boil in less than an
hour,

Second Ditto — That’s nothing ;
down in Texas, where I live, they have
to teed the hens shaved ice three times
a day to’ keep them from laying hard
boiled eggs —The Tiger, —~

Poor Mathematics

A little boy was talking to his pet
rabbit. “What is two and two?” he
asked the rabbit. No answer. “TI said
what is two and two?” continued the
boy angrily, and when there was no
answer he proceeded to give the rabbit
a sharp blow.

What are you doing to that rab-
bit?” sharply asked his mother, ap-
pearing in the doorway. ;

Well, My teacher told me that rab-
bits multiplied rapidly, but this sorry

thing can’t even add!”—The Tech-
fiician.
