THE

DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 16,

1922

ey
—————

THLE

NEW J

——_—_—_——SSSSSSS==

DIXIE DOPE

North Carolina’s victory over V. M. I. re-
duced the number of undefeated Southern
teams to five. Tech beat Georgetown, Van-
derbilt licked Kentucky, Centre mauled
Washington and Lee and Auburn beat Tu-
lane. Next week Auburn plays Centre in the
most important game of tle day and unless a
tie results one of the two wil! drop out of
the race. Vandy stands a chance of losing
out when she plays Georgia and 54° David-
son students are looking forward to seeing
the Blue and White aggregation of Carolina
turned in on the small end of a score Satur-
day through sheer fighting spirit. The case
looks bad, but then the Wildcats never say

’ die.

South Carolina's 27-7 victory over Furman
would seem to indicate that the Hurricane
was outclassed, but the facts hardly read that
way. ‘Three of the Gamecocks’ markers
were intercepted passes while seven more air
line efforts were garnered in to stop Furman
offensives. The game was much closer than
the score indicates, but as South Carolina
beat Wofford by the same margin, our vic-
tory over the Terriers gives us at least one
comparative score on the Hurricane. South
Carolina’s victory gives Clemson the best
chance on the Palmetto championship, for the
Tiger clipped the Gamecocks’ wings, 3-0
several weeks ago.

The South Atlantic championship stands
between V, P. I. and U.N. C.,, with the edge
slightly on the Virginians. The two teams
do not meet though both stand a chance of
an upset in the V. P. I.-V. M. I. and Caro-
lina-Virginia games.

Auburn still tops the list of scoring teams
in the South.

Auburn—264, opponents, 35,

Centre—255, opponents, 46.

V. M. 1.—243, opponents, 16.

Alabama—-231, opponents, 69,

V. P. 1.—214, oppanents, 29.

Trinity’s victory ‘Over Wake Forest puts
the Methodists up another notch in the State
standing. Unless Davidson licks Carolina it
looks like the Wildcats are going to have to
be content with fourth place. Carolina has
a clean slate so far and stands first. State
losing to the University and beating David-
son, looks best for second, while Trinity with
victories over Davidson and Wake - Forest
and a loss to Carolina has the edge on third
place.

Central Cafeteria
“On the Square”’

Entrance Next to
United Cigar Store
on Trade and Tryon !

Y

eet]
“EQUIPMENT for EVERY SPORT”

SPORTING GOODS

Basketball, Tennis, Baseball
goods, We. sell the Spalding,
Reach and Wright & Ditson §
goods. We have the exclusive
agency for A. G. Spalding & §

Bros.

‘Rackets Restrung: by an Expert

Myers. Hardware and

Sporting Goods Co.

A. L. FAUL, Mgr. .

5

» St. CHARLOTTE, HC.

| BILL’S BULL

to that question.
Wildcat Spirit, we lost those games.

question.

night of November 18?

gave V, P. I. a fit and tied them and
question of “Can we win?”

and we've going to do it!

ing back?
the world without.a fight? Or, are we

may be clipped but

per cent.
fight.

cat spirit.

Spirit alone beat the Wildcats,”
selves. Our station is in peril.
Saturday as fighters—and winners.

Who will Win the Carolina Game?
We, the Davidson Student Body, the men who will back our fight-
ing team till the devil holds a skating party, we will win that game.
~ BACK THOSE:FIGHTING FOOLS!
Do YOU want to feel uncomfortable with Red and Black colors on the
Do YOU want to see a Carolina snake dance Satur-
day night? Then get some fighting spirit.
WILL TO WIN AND WE WILL WIN!
Daivdson has an opportunity to turn a disastrous season into a good one.
We have thrown away our chance at the State championship. ‘Two teams
stand out above all others in the South Atlantic—V. P. I. and Carolina. We

WE MUST WIN.

Who lost the P. C., Trinity and State games? There is only one answer
We, the Davidson Student Body, the ‘men who, boast of our

There is only one answer to that

It’s not a
We've got to beat Carolina

we hit Carolina Saturday.

GIVE THEM THE OTHER BARRELL, TEAM!

A Davidson student recently received a letter saying ‘Davidson students
are no longer Wildcats, they’re pole cats.”
Does that insult make you see red? Are we “willing to take that without fight
Are we going to hand over Davidson’s-claim to the best spirit in

set that gang?—POLECATS!

going to grit our teeth, clinch our fists,

and go into the Carolina game to kill, to win back our prestige and the right
to look the world in the face and say “I’m a Davidson Man!” r
The Charlotte Observer said Trinity clipped the Wildcats’ Claws.

We

TAR HEELS, EXCUSE OUR STUBS!

We aren't Wildcats Humbled, but Tar Heel Tumblers.
Team’s ability 25 per cent, team’s fight 25 per cent, student body spirit 50
It’s not a question of football teams.

It’s a question of spirit and

HAVE WE GOT IT?
SHOW THE WORLD

That there’s nothing that ever came out of Chapel Hill that equals Wild-

That with the Wildcat fighting, sixteen Carolina teams can’t beat us.

That we’re not Outspirited Polecats but FIGHTING WILDCATS!

The alumni have never questioned the fighting spirit of the Student Body,
N@P4lo you think they have been fecling this fall as they’ve"¥ead “Spirit and
Saturday we have a chance to redeem our-
Le them know us throughout the country

Let’s say it with touchdowns on the field—and flowers afterwards.

CLASS BASKETBALL

C. M. CLARKE—D

G W L ° Pet.
Che iGeanonccud 3 3 0 1,000
TRIES BGs ponoodo 3 2 0 .667
Seniors .. ....... 3 1 2 333
resents isiiie sire 3 0 3 .000
Sophs
Juniors
Seniors
Fresh .. ...

StalOVeie cheek
Mitchell

SONY, %. 5-65 sve
McBryde .. ..

Anderson .. .. ..
Morrison
Bachman
Bradley .. .. ...
Caddell
Bostick .
Parker

Gentry .. .. ..
Biliott .. .. ...6
Koenig .. .....

Mavlongensuiscr iss cesine tena ane
Richards
OUR NOG Siete ty erect oe Sette ates 2
MSOUION 6 oe vec sec be APPLE HRT PIO IONE 2
DDAVIB TH aes cover assae ieee loko fans 2
INTO Millan incase dh aseiee toncenis Sango i
MDOM ers Sar cpidsh ve cyinheeee Giantess sail
PSPTANKlOx s/s ives seteet esau tate bi eetis 1
otal’ fetavs ast seen aaieciee eee ieee 245

JUNIOR-SENIOR GAME

and Juniors played off their third game in the
class championship series. The Juniors had

it all their way after the first half. After
|| both teams were given some hurried, last-
‘|}minute instructions by their experienced
|| coaches, the men took their positions, and the

|! was tossed up between the two centers,
the game was on.

After the movies Friday night, the Fresh

C. Montague Clarke entered Davidson with
the class of '24. He at once became promi-
nent as one of the best football prospects of
the season. Even in his Fresh year Mon-
tague pushed Sam Davis for his birth on
tackle and even made the famous Hammet
hustle to hold on to his job.

The fall of his second year brought even
more success to Scooter. He received his
“D” and when he returned this year he had
a certain place on the first string. Montague
is the heaviest man on the team, and his
weight together with his ability to handle
himself makes him one of the most formid-
able tackles in the State. He is a fast man
on going down under punts and is just as
fast at getting plays in scrimmage. He is
responsible for many a man being thrown for
a loss.

Montague is an all-round man, being one
of the best mixers on the Hill. He is popu-
lar with everybody and is always ready for
fun or excitement. Clarke is a valuable
man and will be one of the Wildcat main-
stays next year.

In this first half the Juniors were able to
carry the ball down the floor without much
opposition; but when the time came to shoot,
a Freshman would always be on the job, and
back down the court the ball would go. At
seemingly long intervals each team would
succeed in dropping in a field goal. The
crowd, almost to a map, yelled for the Fresh,
and on several occasions they responded
nobly to this support. Coming from behind
they would tie up the count with a long,
beautiful shot. The half was indeed an ex-
citing one, and ended with the Juniors lead-
ing by two points, 11-9. Elkins and Mc-
Bryde accounted for all of the 11 points
made by the Juniors.

Between halves the Juniors, in some mys-
terous manner, were endowed with new zeal
and determination, and looked like an entire-
ly new team throughout the second half, Al-
though the Fresh fought just.as hard. as

“* (Continued on. Page 6)

SK

i

J. M. HENDRIX & CO.

“THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES”

GREENSBORO, N. C.

|

WE'LL TELL YOU MORE ABOUT IT LATER

|

P. S.—Our Shoes are built to a high standard of
quality, then fairly priced. Thirty-five years of practical

experience behind every pair.

Roa

ok

CHONG’S LETTER

Davidson College,
November 13, 1922.

Dear Joe:

The Wildcats ran over the Terriers last
Saturday and made a showing that was high-
ly pleasing to all Red and Black followers.
The Davidson team. outgained the Wofford
team in every way but had to drop behind in
the punting department. That fellow Hoole
could certainly boot the ball but I- would
hardly be willing to say that he averaged
well over 80 on all his punts. His 50 and
60-yard spirals looked good enough without
adding 20 yards to the distance.

The Wildcats displayed a flashy attack
and were able to gain consistently at all
times, but were handicapped by heavy penal-
ties. ‘he way it looked to us birds who were
getting the reports over the radio ‘about
three plays would be run and then would
come a penalty, but as it was the Wildcats
were able to make five touchdowns. Nappy
Davis and Popsy Hunt each contributed a
pair of markers and Jim Hendrix contribut-
ed the remaining counter. Spratt drop-
kicked for the extra point on the first three
touchdowns and twice the ball sailed straight
over the uprights. On the third trial the
kick failed but Wofford was offside and ‘he
got the point just the same.

The aerial attack of the Wildcats was es-
pecially flashy and time after time the wing-
men grabbed the oval for long gains. Nappy
gained 151 yards on passes and two of these
went for touchdowns. ‘Two passes for over
50 yards and one 35-yard pass were his
chief gains. Hunt intercepted a pass and
ran 50 yards for the Wildcats’ last counter.
Jim Hendrix ripped off one of his sensational
dashes around the flanks for a 35-yard gain
and placed the ball within striking distance
of the Terriers goal.

The Wildcats are once more on the right
side of the ledger with 78 points against 67
for the opposition. In the two remaining
games the+Wildcats are going to keep the
figures looking right, too. Carolina has a
strong team and the Wildcats are grooming
themselves for a hard scrap Saturday, but
it will take a strong team to stop us Satur-
day and to win Carolina will have to whip
540 of the scrappingest animals alive. The
Princeton Tigers did the work last Satur-
day against Harvard and the Davidson Wild-
cat will be on hand next Saturday.

There is no question that the Tar Heels
have a great team and one which fights to
the end. They came from: behind against
the Flying Squadron and nosed out a hard
earned victory, 9-7. The-Carolinians gained
106 yards on forward passes to the Vir-
ginians’ 40; 48 yards to 42 on end runs, and
133 to 37 on line plays, or a total of 287
yards to 119. They earned their victory and
they were unwilling to be nosed out by an
intercepted pass. It will take all we've got

to bring home the bacon but we'll make a

big stab at it and the Tar Heels won’t emerge
scrathless,

Our Turkey Day opponents were frocked
again, this time by a 27-7 count. Everybody
up here is congratulating the Gamecocks for
stopping the once formidable Purple Hurri-
cane. “Frock Furman” seems to-be the motto
of everybody these days and the Wildcats
double slogan is, “Crush Carolina and Frock
Furman.” Those Furman boys haven't quite
got the heavy backfield though, kid. Two
190-pounders and the average weight of the ‘
backfield is 174 pounds.

Three p. m. Saturday will see me in the

Pilcachers at Wearn Field along with 500

others and don’t forget there'll be a fight,
although many believe it'll be a runaway.
We're going to make Carolina’s wonder
team wonder what's happening.
CHONG.

D.

Notwithstanding her defeat by Carolina,
V. M. I. is still tied with Vanderbilt for de-
fensive work. Both teams have held their
opponents to 16 points. None of the Com-
modore opposition has been able to accumu-
late enough for a victory.

We Will Be
Looking for
All the Boys

SATURDAY

Exclusive Men’s Shop
Make This Your

Headquarters

‘Tryon Street,
Charlotte, N. C.

Clothing and Furnishings
for Young Men

