4

The DAVIDSONIAN

ber of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
mee lCubal of Soutionw Collegiate Proce Rocce

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered af the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: °
1o Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managin#Editor by 7:00
p. m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

R. F. DAVIDSON.....-.---...- Editor-in-Chief H. H. SMITH-....-.-.---....---.
L. D. ELKINS.. First Managing Editor R. C. AIKEN.. 4
W. M. HESTO cond Managing Editor a LL eke) ta
S, "GRACY.. . 7. ELLI
. H. a -Athletic Edit H, M. MORRIS. terary Editor
E é WILDMAN. Alamat Editor W, Z. BRADFORD. ---Press Editor
Cox Exch Editor
REPORTERS’ CLUB
BROWN, W. P., Pres.” ONES, J. R. MOFFETT, A. N.
SMITH, R. H, Vice-Pres. JONES, R. R. POSTE H.
BROWN, C. V., Sec-Treas. NOX, W, I. MOSS, H. M.
ALLISON, 0. J LACY, T. A. PRICE, H, B.
BITZER, R. McILWAINE, C, M. TULLER, c. D.
CALHOUN, M, P. McIVER, D. D. WALTHALL, D, B.
FRWELL,’ BD. SHAKEE, W. Ti WILDMAN, A.C
A oatara oad _J. M. WILLIAMS : Lie

Special Reporters for this issue are: Pomeroy, W. L.; Crow, E. B.; Moo-
maw, E. C.; Galloway, W. F.; Beal, M.S.; Graves, R. N.; Austin, J.; Briggs, J.
R.; Lake, J. A.; Patton, J. H.; McLean, G.; Moss, H. O.; Moore, W. W.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
COOP:
G. E,

Business Manager

W. J.
JAMES ALLEN, J. H, pavis, GUILLE Asst. Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:

Kast, Cirontation Mer, n, SUES treatin TOWER
t ° . B. LILE! ry }

psecuhtae eta FE, C) MOOMAW J. A. THOMPSON

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible. .

EDITORIAL

Some Class, Seniors! ;

WATT McCAIN.
S. C, FAIN

“
The stylish Seniors we see walking around the campus and swing-
ing glossy new canes could hardly look more imposing if they tried.
This little innovation brings them quite a pleasant. distitiction, -we feel
sure. With ’22 setting such an example, it will no doubt be very hard in
the future to restrain Seniors around graduation time from the desire
to follow in their footsteps.
: All will agree, certainly, that after four years of strenuous mental
labor here, a man should very justly feel a pride in what he has occom-
plished.. When commencement comes, with a diploma in one hand, a
cane in the other, and a fair guest to add her smile, nothing should mar
their complete: triumph. :
).

Everyone enjoys the games played at Davidson—football, basket-
ball, and baseball, especially since here with the band to help us back
the team, we can more often win. It is certainly good to’ hear of
plans by which we can increase the number of games here, and the
proposition that Coach Gray is in favor of will help Davidson in quite
a number of ways. If he has everybody behind him, the college shop
can become a reality and our athletics receive another big impetus.
While this will be something new, there is no reason why we can’t put it
on a paying basis here, and gain by it directly at the same time that we
are gaining indirectly.

TD).
The new ruling that was made by the Carolina faculty concerning
how much their students can receive for playing summer baseball, and
still be eligible for the Carolina teams, is quite striking. Considering,
also, the rule prohibiting men from leaving one ‘school’s team to join
another, we can see clearly that the policy of cleaner athletics, with as
much professionalism as possible debarred, is gaining ground fast.
Anything, however, can be carried to an extreme. That there is a
good deal of unfairness in a college teaching its students a most suc-
cessful way to earn money and then forbidding them to make use of
this, is very true. The contention that a faculty can tell in practically
every case whether a man is a professional or really wants an educa-
tion, is well founded ; and if settled in this way, many men could make
good salaries during their vacations and easily earn enough to educate
themselves, who under these new rules will be restrained from accepting
places paying large salaries.

D.

ARE YOU DROPPING R. 0. T. C.?

Our readers, we hope, were all interested in the account of what the
R. O. T. C. unit at Davidson is doing as this was pictured for them in
the past week’s issue of the paper. From time to time recently, a great
deal has been said about the different phases of this training as receiv
ed here, and when its great value tothe school and to the individual is
considered, we are glad to try in every way possible to bring these facts
more clearly to the attention of the students and especially to the ‘at-
tention of those who are now about tc decide whether they will con-
tinue this course with the training and financial inducements it offers or
drop it.

Some of the men who have been to military schools are at times

‘tempted to criticize Davidson’s unit; but when we compare it «with all
similar ones in this part of the country, no one can deny that it is
‘superior to many and ranks right along with the best both in efficiency
and discipline. The attitude of indifference and insubordination that
men take at many colleges where the R. O. T. C. is found is the cause for
any discredit that falls upon the organization. Our course is interesting
as well as instructive, and no one should have such an attitude here.

It is one that offers so many obvious benefits for Juniors and Se-
niors that a man should consider all its inducements seriously before he
turns down his opportunity to enter it. Besides this, the officers in
charge are interested in the school and in the men individually, which is
a condition that we have always desired here, but one very hard to ob-
tain in this kind of instruction. The chance to take the course under
such favorable conditions should not be lightly thrown away.

|

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 5, 1922.

Open Forum

EDITOR’S NOTE.

It seems necessary to repeat to
the student body that the Open
Forum is not an additional editor-
ial column existing merely for the
expression of its editor’s opinions.
It is, as its name implies, a means
by which any and every student
can give his views and his criti-
cisms of an evil or any unfairness
that exists on the campus. By, it
appeals can be made to the stu-
dent body which can reach it in
no other way. This column is also
for discussion. Surely you do not
agree with all the statements made
in its articles. Answer them.
Bring your articles to six Rumple
at any time. This is your section
of the Davidsonian. Let's make cit
the most interesting part of the {|
paper, ‘

Appreciation.

On Saturday we play the last baseball |
game of our season. We have a good
team this year and although they haven't
won as many games as we would have
liked, they have worked and worked
bard. They have given their best for
Davidson and have had only mediocre
support in return. Baseball has been
somewhat neglected by the student body
this spring. Many have not known when
the team left and when it returned, and
yet the fact remains that while most of
us have been indulging in good cases of
[spring fever, these men have practised
faithfully on the diamond every after-
noon,

Last fall sweaters were given to
the football letter men, We appreciated
what they had done and were glad for
them to have them, Last winter. by the
charge of’a small admission fee, the
basketball men were also given sweat-
ers. Let us now show our spirit of loy-
alty to the men who have represented
us on the baseball diamond. By charg-
ing 25 cents for all students at the game
Saturday, these men could all be sup-
plied with handsome sweaters. They
deserve some concrete symol of our
appreciation of what they have done for
us. Let’s give it to them.

A CHEERFUL GIVER.
T).

LIBRARY NEWS.

A sect of three volumes of the Ency-
clopedia Britannica has recently been
added to the library. This new set just
issued constitutes a 12th edition of the
29 volumes issued in 1911 and supplies
distinctive information dealing with the
events.and developments between 1910
and 1922. The new volumes are dedi-
cated to President Harding and King
George. The Encyclopedia first appear-
ed in 1768 and since that period 11 edi-

tions have been published.
D.

1

MINISTERIAL BAND.

At the meeting ot the Ministerial Band
Sunday afternoon, the new constitution
of the band was voted on and adopted.
In connection with the constitution, the
ministerial pledge was discussed and
adopted,

The installation of officers took place,
with Baker as president; Lee McLean,
vice-president, and A.-M. Martin, sec-
retary and treasurer. Baker closed the
meeting with a few words in which he
gave some plans for the band’s work
next year,

hn

D.

FOUR PROMINENT STUDENTS
TAKEN INTO SIGMA UPSILON

At a recent meeting of Sigma Upsilon
Literary Fraternity no regular program
was carried out but the meeting was one
of the most important of the year since
the question of the selection of the new
men was before the chapter. After
quite a bit of discussion the following
men were pledged and will soon be taken
in: Davidson, Cooper, Fewell, and
Smith, H. H. ,

As the future of every such organiza-
tion depends on the men taken in each
year, the Davidson chapter has taken

care in its selection, and has chosen
wisely.

D.
LD

Upon the recent recommendation of
the staff, J. M. Williams has been taken
into the Reporters’ Club.

PROPOSED CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENTS.

A man can hold ten points but no two
five-point positions. :

President Student Body, 5.

President Athletic Association, 5.

Manager Baseball, 4.

President Y. M. C. A,, 5.

Managing Editor Davidsonian, 2.

Editor-in-Chief Magazine, 4.

President Literary Sciety, 3.

Editor-in-Chief Annual, 4.

President Senior Class, 3.

Manager Football, 5.

Manager Basketball, 4.

Editor-in-Chief Davidsonian, 5.

Business Manager Davidsonian, 3.

Business Manager Magazine, 3.

Major R. O. T. C., 3.

Business Manager Annual, 2.

Constitution Amendments.

Article I. Sec. 3—To be added:

Freshmen become members of Stu-
dent Body with full rights to vote, im-
mediately upon seating of their pres-
ident on the council, 2

Article II. Sec. 5—To be added:

In any case appealed, a simple ma-
jority vote is necessary to reverse the
decision of the council.

Article III. Sec. 6—To read:

The above afficers shall be elected for
a term of one college year entering into
their active duties two weeks before the
date of commencement.

Sec. 5—To be added to last sentence;
except for the last two weeks before
commencement.

Repeal Article VI. To be declared
null and void. Os
Article VII. To read:

There shall be appointed each. year
the student representative upon the
audit board to inspect once during fall
and twice during spring the books and
accounts of student organizations re-
sponsible to the College. This includes
the books and accounts of the Annual,
Magazine, and Davidsonian, whose treas-
urers are to be responsible to the coun-
cil for having their books audited.

Amendments passed upon by ten men
of the council and submitted by reading
to Student Body on April the twenty.
sixth.

=

Thomas M. Lowry, Jr.
To be voted upon after second reading
and any necessary explanations, and
after having been on table at least ten
days.
D

TENNIS TEAM TAKES SPRING
TRIP PRIOR TO STATE MEET

The Davidson tennis team, composed of
Hugh Bradley, Ed Cunningham, Curtis
Ormand, and Louis Wilkenson, returned
Saturday from their invasion of North
Carolina, Although they did not succeed
in bringing home the bacon in every
case, they did themselves proud, and feel
all primed for the State tournament to
be held in Durham, May 4-6.

Their first match on the North Car-
olina trip was with Trinity. The Trinity
teams were going exceptionally well, and’
Davidson was perhaps a little over-con-
fident after having defeated Trinity so
decisively last fall. As a result, the two
doubles and two of the four singles went
to Trinity, giving them the victory,
140-60,

The team went from Trinity to Car-
olina determined to make up for their
defeat of the day before, and by excel-
lent playing the Davidson racketeers
split even with what is, no doubt, one
of the best tennis teams in the State.
The entire Davidson team displayed the
old-time form, and Bradley in particular
played a wonderful game, winning from
the renowned Tench Coxe in two sets,
8-6, and 7-5. Ed Cunningham succeeded
in defeating his opponent by the score
of 6-4, 0-6, 7-5. Ormand and Wilkenson
dropped their singles to Johnston and
Burton respectively.

In the doubles Billy Coxe'and Burton
composed the team for Carolina which
successfully defeated Wilkerson and
Cunningham, 6-4, 6-3. Bradley and Or-
mand took sweet revenge a little later
by copping their match against Tench
Coxe and Johnston to the tune of 8-6,
6-2,

Elon was to be met next, but hard
rains left the courts in such bad con-
dition that it was necessary to call the
match off.

After the showing the team made
against Carolina, our hopes are bright
for the State championship both in the

singles and doubles. The team will get

5

. SD ..
Th Se

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

Only A Dad.
Only a dad with a tired face,
Coming home from his daily race,
Bringing little of gold or fame
To show how well he has played the
game
But glad in his_heart that his own re-
joice
To see him come and hear his voice.’

Only a dad of a brood of four,

One of ten million men or more,

Plodding along in the daily strife,

Bearing the whips and scorns of life

With never a whimper of pain or hate

For the sake of those who at home
await.

Only a dad. neither rich nor proud,
Merely one of a surging crowd,
Toiling, striving from day to day
Facing whatever may come his way;
Silent, whenever the harsh condemn,
And bearing it all for the love of them.

Only a dad, but he gives his all,
To smooth the way for his children
small,

Doing with courage stern and grim

The deeds that his father did for him.

This is the line for him I pen—

Only a dad, but the best of men.
—Selected.

She knew a Hog.

A New Orleans lady was waiting to
buy a ticket at the picture show, when a
stranger bumped her shoulder. She
glared at him, feeling it was done “in-
tentially.

“Well,” he growled, “don’t eat me up.”

“You are in no danger, sir,” she said,
“IT am a Jewess.”—The Student.

At Cornell University it has been esti-
mated that it costs a student four times
as much to live today as it did fifty years
ago. Not including the cost of clothing
of travel, the average student at Cornell
spends during a year $1,150, as for a total
of $280 in 1872, Although no amount can
be definitely set which would apply to
all students, the 1922 estimate of what
the average student spends, the maxi-
mum reaches $1,500, while some self-
supporting’ students are able to live on
$750.

There was a young maiden from Siam
Who said to her lover, Young Kiam,
“If you kiss me of course,
You will have to use force,
But of course you are stronger than I
‘am.”
—College Reflector.

Understand Men?

“If you try to please a man he decides
you are in love with him

And if you didn’t try to please him he
Says you are disagreeable.

If you talk about yourself he is horrid.

And if you talk about him he gets nervous.

If you believe all he says’ he thinks you
are a simpleton,

And if you don’t he calls you a cynic.

If you are jealous of him he vows you
are narrow-minded.

And if you are not he fumes because
you don’t like him enough to care.

If you have other sweethearts, he ac-
cuses you of being a Theda Bara,

And if you let them all go but him he
loses interest immediately.

If you wear narrow skirts and rakish
hats he laughs at you,

And if you adopt dress reform, he elopes
with a chorus girl.

Understand Men? i

Say, do you think I am the eighth won-

; der of the world?” —Ex.

One of the students of Chemistry at
the University of Washington has in-
vented a new cigarette holder. He took
a four-foot length of glass tubing and
wrapped it around a broom handle, mak-
ing a nice coil. Then he melted a mouth-
piece on one end, and had a holder that
cools the smoke and catches all the
nicotine.

Another whack at Trinity, and we feel
quite confident of the result.
