4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 12, 1922

The DAVIDSONIAN

OPEN FORUM

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
das Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

DSON. + +eeceeees tor-in-Chief H. H. SMITH +++.Forum Editor
R 5. BERING: Besos iFirst, atacaming ditor R. at ..Campus ito!
W. M. HESTON....Second Managing Editor D. OGD. M. C. A. itor
R. R, ES.. si itor if
E. H. fe
CaF
' PRESS BUREAU
W. Z. BRADFORD.........eeeeeeeee Manager W. F. GALLOWAY.......Assistant Manager
Assistants
- COX, L. P. MILTON, W. E.
NDE tLEY? J. At, Shit, C.F. McLEOD, W. C.
BUSINESS DEPARTMENT
COOPER.......+.+4. Business Manager
L. PRICE, J. H. DAVIS, ate E. WEEKS and W. oH or 18) 0) ORO OCC Advertising Solicitors
antes McCUTCHEN.......++ Office Assistant MBORGH nits 9-o tossed Advertising Copy
CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT : :
WATT MCCAIN........ Circulation Manager ~ S. C. FAIN....eeeee, Asst. Circulation Mgr.
fan Sealants,
R. B. LILES K. Cc. MOOMAW J. A. THOMPSON
REPORTERS’ CLUB
Ww. P., P. GALLOWAY, W. F. PRICE, H. B.
BNOTH. RH, ViewPres. = LAKE) NG Je SHAREE, WH.

ROWNAC: Vey -Treas, McILWAINE, C M OE ON, a i
CXEHOUN, M2. MAUZE, GW. WILDMAN, A. C.
EARNEST, R. OFFETT A, i WILLIAMS, J. M.
FEWELL, ED. MOORE, W. I

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

The old Wildcat fighting spirit was certainly in evidence on Grant Field in
Atlanta last Saturday. The whole student body wants to’show that spirit and
make Wake Forest the next victim. Everything points to the V. P. I. game on
Home-Coming Day as a classic which no student or alumnus can fail to see.

T). .

1

On last Saturday we had opened for our use the parlors of East and West
dormitories. These had been most tastefully decorated in red and black for
Davidson, pine for the Old North State, and golden rod for the nation. They
looked fine, fellows. Why can’t we take pride in keeping these rooms that are
being opened for us? East and West might rival each other in having theirs
stay neat and attractive. Anyway we can support Mrs. Smith in all that she
wants us to do, and be careful and thoughtful in our use of them.

D
HOME-COMING DAY

OR quite a number of years, institutions in this State and all over the coun-
try have made a practice of selecting some suitable date on, which all of
their alumni come back to visit their Alma Mater. Davidson has not followed
this practicg, but since the results in other universities and colleges are evident,
October 21 has been set aside as Home-Coming Day for the Davidson alumni.
To advertise this fact and get more of our alumni interested, we are
making this issue of The Davidsonian the Home-Coming issue. We want
every one of you alumni who live in reach to start planning at once to be here
on the 21st. If the event this year is a success, next year it can be looked for-
ward to with greater enthusiasm, and larger plans can be made.
D.

1

NOISE NEEDLESS AND HARMFUL

VER since Davidson opened this’ fall, there has seemed to be a spirit of
restlessness upon the campus. ‘This has manifested itself in a number of
ways such as men becoming dissatisfied, doing much less studying than they
should, moving from one room to another, some even leaving school, and
especially in one manner that may be at the bottom of many of the others, one
which certainly is very unnecessary and very distracting. This is the making
of excessive noise which is done at night as well as during the day in all the
dormitories. ¢ 4
Many of us fail to realize the fact that here so many men are living
together in such a small amount of space. In both East and West, there are
over 100 students, each wanting to do many things quite different from the
things the men next door want to do. It is clearly evident that everybody can’t
be satisfied and someone is going to have to sacrifice his desires where they
conflict. Beyond doubt there are no two impulses that canbe more impossible
of accomplishment at the same time than studying and making all variety of
noises.! ’
Perhaps we don’t always keep the fact in mind,. but our main purpose in
coming here was to study. That is'what our folks back home are expecting us
‘to ‘do, }-What is going to be théir attitiide if We attribute poor marks to inability
to do our work because of too much noise ?. Then particularly do we oldet men
ito the newcomers this’ year to give ‘them every encouragement toward
‘this year a success. When 4 many firid it necessary to move in order to
fOwn, we can see that there is room for improvement.
€alizing then what such thoughtlesss is leading to, we all ought: to try
Mtter. The men who are mitsically inclined can find plenty of time in the
‘to Keep | in n practice, and-by so. “doing can leave the night a little
at ax jndulging in. various. other. forms. of making noise
t doubt se thoughtless, “Since. there i is no need nor excuse for

Well Worth Considering

It may seem to some of us fellows
that there is continually being brought
up some new thing of a religious na-
ture to which we are asked to give of
our time and interest. So may seem
the call this fall to attend Wednesday
night Bible classes on each floor.
seems to me, and I am not one who
likes to be loaded down with a super-
abundance of good things, that right
here is a matter we might consider a
little before taking the stand that it is

t/another of the good things of too little
itor comparative value to engage our atten-

tion.

These classes are not to take up more
than 30 minutes and probably even
less. The time that should be put on
preparation will vary as the time we
can find or the time we will make. It
is not to be any deep-seated theological
course of study nor one dealing with
unreal conditions. On the other hand,
from what I can gather from its pro-
moters, it is to be more of a confiden-
tial discussion of anythings we care to
discuss relative to our lives at David-
son, .The course to be undertaken
covers 10 weeks. The pamphlet is
called “Facing Student Problems” and
a hasty glancing over it will reveal its
value through its practicability. The
writer is a recent Davidson graduate
and we may reasonably conclude that
his studies are peculiarly adapted to
conditions here. Certainly he could
not have ignored problems that must
have confronted him while he was in
college at Davidson,

As one class leader put it, the
classes “are not to be any sanctimoni-
ous affair, but just a group where any
college problem of any nature is just
what we. want to bring out.” It seems
likely that the fain purpose and value
of the course will lie in the original,
specific, vital problems brought ‘out by
the group members. Fellows, we all
know of things that don’t suit us and
of problems, large and small, that we
can't seem to make heads or tails out
of. Let’s give this Bible course a try-
out—a little time and thought once a
week—and see what it may mean to

us. ONE INTERESTED.
T).

WILDCATS ARE GIVEN A
ROUSING SEND-OFF

The spirit of the Wildcat, long in
leash, sprang into full fury on the
night of Sepember the 6th, the night
before 22 of these same Wildcats
abandoned their lair for the purpose of
burying their claws in the Yellow
Jackets of Georgia. ‘The men of Da-
vidson gave their team a send-off such
as was well deserved by the men who
were going to Atlanta to givé their all
for their Alma Mater.

It was done in this manner. Cars
were waiting at 7 o’clock to take the
men to Charlotte, and at this hour 540
strong, the students were assembled.
In a short while, there issued from this
throng a long line in lock-step, namely,
a shirt-tail parade. Up and down the
street it went. If the. Yellow Jackets
heard O, Davidson! and the yells
which followed, they must have
crawled back into their holes with
quaking hearts.

The leader, Okey Allison, had the
old pep and much credit is due to him.
And now on all sides was heard, “Go
get em Sam;” “Bettin’ on you, Regen,
boy ;’”’ “Tear ’em loose, Spratt.” Amid
these and many like yells, the Wild-
cats started off to earn the glory which
they so richly deaceve:

If a man empties ca purse into his head,

no one can take it from him.—Benjamin
Franklin.

It},

mar

Answered Prayer

“He asked for strength that he
might achieve; he was made weak that
he might obey.

“He asked for all things that he
might enjoy life; he was given life that
he might enjoy all things.

“He asked for riches that he might
be happy; he was given poverty, that
he might be wise.

“He asked for power that he might
have the praise of men; he was given
weakness that he might feel the need
of God.

“He asked for health, that he might
do greater things; he was given in-
firmity that he might do better things.

“He has received nothing that he
asked for; all that he hoped for. His
prayer was answered.’”—Selected.

They sat up among the sugar plums.
The moon shone softly. Suddenly he
broke the silence. ‘Hey what’s to pre-
vent my kissing you?”

“Why my _ goodness,”
claimed.

But it didn’t.

she | ex-

'26—“John was horribly mangled in
the mud-rolling contest.”

Co-ed—“Oh the poor dear, how did
it happen?”

’26—“Well.y’see he had on his new
all-wool union suit, and when he got
wet it shrunk so fast that he’ was
crushed before he could get it off.”—
The Student Life.

He—"‘Going to have dinner any-
where tonight?”

She (eagerly )-—“No,
know of.”

He—"Gee! You'll be awfully hun-

gry by morning.”

not that I

{

And now we have the real definition
of modern dancing. Dancing today
is “the maximum of motion in the
minimum of space.”

In cold weather its a good idea to
serve potatoes with their jackets on.

Which professor was it that just
before he went to class the other morn-
ing threw his wife out the back door
and kissed the garbage?

Love never dies in a woman’s heart.
‘There is always a spark left for some
fellow to fan into a flame.

We wonder if Wrigley’s pet phrase
is—“By gum!”

Here lies the bootlegger, Josephus Mc-
Naught,

Who sold many a bottle and never got
caught.

He tasted his samples, his head hit the
pave,

And now the corn flowers grow wild
on his grave-—The Agonitic.

Mr, Nutt—I think your daughter re-
cited remarkably well.

Landlady—Yes. All she needs is a
short course in electrocution to finish
her off, you might say—Kansas City
Star.

Customer—Kin I get a book here
about shootin’, craps?

Clerk—Here’s a work on osteopathy,
deals with the manipulation. of the
bones.—Boston Transcript. :

PLAY BY PLAY DETAILS
(Continued from Page One)

went wild. The diagram see-sawed
back and forth and time passed by. A
quarter was gone: and no more scores
had been made. Almost to the goal
line again came Tech, then ball started
back. Back and forth the ball was
punted while the student body yelled.
Suddenly with a crumpled dispatch in
his hand, Walthall leaped to his feet.
The game was ended with the score
19 to 0.

The student body had yelled before,
now they went wild. Hats sailed into
the air and arms waved wildly. Above
the din and pandemonium could be dis-
tinguished the shouts of “Fresh
Parade.” Into town the jubilee moved
and the shirt-tail parade began. It was
fully a hundred yards long as it filed
across the campus toward the athletic
field. Around and around the football
field the parade proceeded, yelling for
Davidson and the way they held’ down
the score. A local football game was
in progress between Davidson High
and Mooresville High. Cheers rang
out for the Wildkittens, and the high
school girls sang their songs. The
parade stopped at the southern. end of
the athletic field and Freshmen and
upper classmen joined in the chorus of
“Oh Davidson.” The celebration was
ended and the happy Davidson College
student body turned their steps toward
the boarding houses.

T).
FIRE! FIRE!

Shhh! A rumor has been spread
abroad in the camp. <A wild rumor
indeed. Iwas started by a wild
dreamer of dreams residing in the his-
toric domicile of Rumple. He dreamed —
of a conference with Dr. Frazer, erst-
while President of Queens College.
After heated argument and much
logical proof’ on the part of the
dreamer, said the President was con-
vinced and gave consent to the proposi-
tion of a special train for the girls to
visit Davidson on Home-Coming Day,
October 21, But just as everything
was looking bright for the dreamer
some horrid creature entered the room.
The dreamer awoke in the middle of
the floor with his bed resting on top of
him, to find that all his fine argument
had been only a dream.

That's what started the rumor,
though, and now it’s up to the 540 stu:
dents of Davidson to use persuasive
argument with all the powers that be
in an effort to get those Queen girls up
here on October 21st. Say, wouldn't
it be great to meet a train-load of
FIRE? Oh boy, that would be a
grand and glorious feelin’,

If only the man who on Davidson
Day in the Queen City made the re-
mark that he wished he were presi-
dent of Queens College, that he would
allow Davidson free access to it at all
times, were ‘really president ‘the dif-
ficulty would be solved. Dr. Frazer
has proven himself to be a reasonable
man heretofore, ‘however, and it is be-
lieved that he will sanction a request
to allow his beauties to come and beau-
tify the campus -for,just.one short day.
Just think what it would mean to the
§tudent body, and then think how much
harder the boys on the team would
fight with-such’an audience of beauty

{to spur them on, Come on up Queens,

and give Davidson Nie ‘once over.”

DIRECTORY CORRECTIONS
Through.an error-the following men
were listed as freshmen:on the direc-
tory published last week:
Choi, Dr. Y. O., special.
Nace, A. F., 24. ~
Regen, E. M., ’24.
Rowe, A. T:Jr., ’25.
Green, J. L, Jr.,.’25.
McMillan, R. H., ’24

$s
