‘THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 5, 1922

LITERARY NEWS

PANDEINIC SOCIETY
HOLDS GOOD DEBATE

The first regular weekly meeting of the
Pandeinic Society was held on. September
28. The usual program was carried out, the
meeting being presided over by Arnett
Gamble, the president.

The program was opened by a debate upon
the subject, Resolved, That present condi-
tions in Europe warrant an,increase in the
active military, forces of the United States.
The affirmative was upheld by E. H. Mauze
and L. B. Gibbs; the negative by D. W.
Bethea and-R. W. Carr.

Mauze’s argument was tense and lucid and
his speech was probably the best prepared of
any, Carr also had a well-prepared debate
and his rebuttal was especially good. The
new inter-collegiate method of rebuttals was
carried out. The decision of the house was
in favor of the negative. The judges de-
cided in favor of the affirmative.

Current events were then given by J. H.
Grey. ‘These were well selected and well
delivered in a very interesting manner.
Franklin then recited Lincoln’s immortal
Gettysburg address.

Professor Wagner, of the English depart-
ment, was present and in a brief speech made
a plea for all literary societies at Davidson.
He also expressed his desire to be of aid to
the society in any possible way.

In the business meeting which followed
the regular program it was voted to have
a society sponsor. Due to the length of the
program, the election of officers was post-
poned until next week.

PHI SOCIETY ENJOYS
MANY GOOD SPEECHES

The Philanthropic Society held its regular
weekly meeting Thursday night, September
28.

The query for debate was, Resolved: That
the present situation in Europe warrants an
increase in the active military force of the
United States. On the affirmative were R.
M. McGirt and P. J. Story, while the nega-
tive was represented by W. P. Brown and
R. H. Brown. After heated arguments on
both sides the judges rendered a unanimous
decision in favor of the negative.

S. R. Sloan gave a very instructive oration
on the situation in the Near East. The de-
claimer of the evening was W. J. Calhoun,
who spoke on “The Art of Optimism.” His
clear enunciation and poise proclaimed him
one of the best speakers on the program.

Mr. Russell H. Wagner, Professor of
Public Speaking, was unanimously elected
an honorary member of the socicty.

Buck Currie, “Y” secretary and an old Phi
member, gave a few inspiring and helpful
remarks.

ORATION BY SHARPE
FEATURES EU PROGRAM

The Eumuenean Literary Society began

Announcement

We wish to announce that

MR. J. W. COOPER

of the Davidsonian Staff
is now our representative on
“The Hill.”” You may be
assured that any orders
placed with him will receive
our most careful attention.

CHARLOTTE, N. C.
14-16 East Fourth Street

College Annuals Magazines
Catalogues |
Social Stationery

(3-Day Service on Wedding
Invitations) |

its literary work for this year in the regular
mecting held Thursday night, September 28.
The house was called to order by President
Elliott, who appointed W. W. Purdy to fill
the chair of the vice president in the absence
of that officer. Under the head of special
business three new members, Messrs. Rowe,
Rogers and Bowie, were initiated into the
society. . é

The regular program followed. The
query: Resolved, That the present situation
in Europe demands _ increased United
States military forces, was discussed by P.
H. Biddle and T. L. Fraser from the af-
firmative viewpoint, and James McCutcheon
and W. J. Cooper from the negative view-
point. Both the judges and the house
unanimously voted for the negative.

The outstanding feature of the evening
was the oration by W. H. Sharpe. In dis-
cussing the matter of the R. O. T. C. and
its continuance in the curriculum of various
colleges, he maintained that it was a declin-
ing and undesirable course.

D. H. Ogden, as reviewer, constructively
criticised the speeches of the evening.

D.

METROPHILIAN HAVE
FIRST ACTIVE MEETING

On Thursday night, September 21, the
Metrophilian Literary Society met and 14
new men were initiated into the society as
Junior members. No special program was
followed. At that time it was decided by
secret ballot that the regular time for meet-
ing during the year would be Tuesday night.

The society met again on Tuesday, Sep-
tember 26, to follow its first regular program
for this session, After the devotional exer-
cises, which were conducted by McBryde,
the debate, “Resolved, That the present
situation in’ Europe warrants an increase in
the active military forces in the United
States,” was entered into. The affirmative
was upheld by C. S. Furches and W. P.
Kimzey, while the negative was defended by
J. A. Thompson and M. W. Trawick. All
of these men rendered excellent speeches
and showed that they had put preparation
into them, even though Mr. Trawick was
appointed one without previous notice. The
judgés gave the decision to the affirmative.

The query for the extemporancous debate
was, “Resolved, That Davidson made a mis-
take by enrolling more than 500 students
this. year.” C. E..Hodgin was on the af-
firmative and J. M. Adams was on the nega-
tive. The judges gave this decision to the
affirmative.

—D.

LOCAL POET’S TALENT
RECOGNIZED ABROAD

Perhaps no one class of men have so lived
through the ages, or so touched the lives and
hearts of the rank and file as has the poct.
Since the early history pf the race, poets
have called men to deeds of valor. Through
the power of verse dynasties have been de-
stroyed, armies cheered on to victory and
nations founded. In fact few men are so
well loved and long remembered as our be-
loved poets. Almost every nation has some
poet of whom they are especially proud, such
as Burns, of Scotland, Shakespeare, of
England, Longfellow, Poe, Whittier and
others of the United States. Statesmen may
comé, a genius of the business world may go,
but a poet lives on forever.

At the name of Lanier Georgia lifts her
shoulders with pride, as does all the South-
land. it is with a great deal of pride that
Davidson joins with the Stratford Company,
publishers of Boston, in recognizing the
talent of W. F. Galloway, a member of the
Junior class, also a native of Georgia. Mr
Galloway’s poem, “A Broken Date,” received
honorable mention in this year’s College
Anthology. Georgians are not slow in
recognizing the gifted of their native born,
and at a meeting of the Georgia Club last
Saturday evening; September 31, Galloway
was enthusiastically chosen as club poet.

SMALL EXPLOSION IN
CHEMISTRY ‘LABORATORY

The chemistry laboratory was the scene of
what might have been a serious accident last
week,

While working with some marsh gas Bill
Martin and Shorty Howell were burned
painfully but fortunately not seriously when
the mixture exploded. Little Bill Joe had
his hand burned while Howell is going
around with both hands anf his left arm
bandaged. They were lucky in that none of
the fragments struck their eyes.

It is stated that the accident was caused
by the use of glass instead of metal test-

tubes,

SPICE OF THE
CHARLOTTE TRIP

As a result of the trip to the Queen: City
last Monday, the usual number of humorous
incidents on such trips happened or were al-
leged to have happened.

When the ticket window at the Davidson
railroad “terminal” opened free tickets were
handed out to the boys. Red McKellar in-
sisted on paying for his, but after numerous
explanations he was persuaded that it was
true—something for nothing !

On the road every one was asked by Bob
Davidson to eat at the Central Cafeteria.
Most of the crowd went although they sus-
pected a rake-off.

As the line passed the Assay Office a sign
was seen reading: “Go to Texas—Join the
Army.” It took three men to keep Alki
Jones from joining the army then and there.

Breakfast and Baldy. Jones rushes for the
Keith box office and secures a seat in that
location which appropriately describes the
condition of his thatch. After the show
Started it wag) noticed that the above men-
tioned location was Davidsonian to a man,

While waiting on Fourth Street for
“eats” Pomeroy hit upon the bright idea of
holding his head-gear in such a manner as to
show that all contributions would be grate-
fully received. He made enough to get in
the Exposition. Brains!

At last the profs get shot, speaking from a
photographical standpoint. We would really
like to know just what was said when the
cameraman said to “talk it up.”

many new ways of spelling his name in the
hook which entitled you to a free pack of
cigarettes. '

True to form when even a fair lady
showed herself, cries of “Fire” were sure to
be heard. It was a good thing that it was
not taken literally or there would be a lot
of repair work for the alarm box man.

a BD
STUDENTS INSPECT EXPOSITION
(Continued from Page 1)

inspection of everything. Many of the
articles represented were those used by Da-
vidson men, The Charlotte printers’ booth,
for example, had as some of its products,
Davidson's annuals, newspapers and other
publications

Going on a few steps there’ were found
things used in the town of Davidson and
other things that we need here. The Kel-
vinator ice machine, one of which is in the
Davidson ice plant,was set up on a smaller
scale, and in working order.

Further down the line we noted a product
that is much needed at Davidson just now.
The Harris water system, made at Green-
ville, S. C., was proving its ability, Com-
pressed air is the basis of its power.

Of interest to everyone in the Carolinas
who is concerned in farming, was the exhibit
of ways and means of combatting the boll
weevil. To Carolinians this pest is a rela-
tively late arrival, and every effort is being
made to nip its activities in the bud. The
different stages of the weevil’s growth were
shown, and the damage done to the boll, at
each stage. If the weevil can be overcome
it will be a boon to the country, for in the
Mississippi Delta, and other rich cottdh
sections in the Southern States, the weevil
has been, for many years, taking about one-
fourth of the cotton crop.

Closely interwoven with the advance of
any state is the growth of the railroads that
have their centers in that state. The P. &
N. Electrical Railway, using power from the
great Bridgewater power plant, has grown
with the Carolinas and in their booth were
various records in transportation, of which
it is justly proud.

Perhaps the Davidson R. O. G. C, unit
would have been interested in the Boy Scout
exhibit there. For Scouts, the exhibit was a
sure-enough good one, showing many Indian
relics and many evidences of Scout energy
and ability.

The Southern Engineering Company, of
Charlotte, builders of the steel frame for the
exposition building and erected in less than
three weeks had a very attractive booth.

There were 'too many noteworthy exhibits,
downstairs, to mention. Upstairs, the, booth
space was almost entirely taken up with
county exhibits-and cotton mill products.
Taking it all in all, there was everything a
persons wants during his or her natural life,
and afterward, too. “Everything from
blankets, baby clothes, etc., to the automobile,
represented by the Anderson people, where-
with a man often ends his life, and then
coffins and tombstones, that he uses after-
wards.

D.
Little Questions for Today

Professor (in enginéering class) “What's
a dry dock?”
| Student—“A physician who won't give out

prescriptions.”—Dry Goods.

It is said also that Little Brice learned

ill: “Trave

NY tobacco— every tobacco—tastes better ina WDC
Pipe. Our own specially seasoned and carefully selected
French briar makes it so, Add to this the supercraftsman-
ship of the Demuth workers, and you'll not wonder that we
claim pre-eminence in the quality of our pipes, Ask any
good dealer,

Wena. DEMUTH & CO.. NEW YORK

WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES

Statistical Report

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
STUDENT BODY

DAVIDSON, N. C.

1922-1923

Preferred Life Work

NMUMIStRVericitnib in canis siaeiiresinia nssiiici eos Od
Businessmen: GOB OL OLOSOO CGT OL.
MedIGINGR ieiicciicKiiuiiniies HOMO Onno 7s)
ICKY San nouud oes bushaphalonesay snotarscareeze savausibyetiletelsiale too
PINBINCCHIN GS wicics Ke sierie es. asssies wtienia hese vines Oe.
Teaching ........ AOD ODOUR UD DC OU ON NOGOG 1 C4
EVI j Goron OO NO Onno Oo Ooo SAECO UGG a0 Al)
GheiniStivascnirensaanininer wenn tins tO
Ko adoro HOUND O DONO Go ounUni i ye
YOMiCraAg. ass RTE le NUT OC HOnOUTOnG eS oO)
Architecture ......... Sirs Brena srerseunarhaten EG
Meteorologist ............ OT Oni SiiuGunudH
INK tials NRO Ri raaeNattariys APEY RInene 1
(Usinrdetettikedl GoGasouooau0 THE DREO DN Misa eRinert ster LOL:
Matalin ere a ST EOROG Re eee00
Church Membership é
Presbyterian ...... conven d00G0000000000000000 456
Methodist ........ NGA eeitnsieunas Siaceisiel eth ts
Beasoti Ste cag crests sis FUORI O non GRO uGOOO LS)
UN hes ee etn RON DOGO DO nbn eS UTOL
BY PISCOPAles te fase fiitevars ce sical Big ca ena un OUae tn)
etitienraten ris. Ste ATES ipererees Esai cote 4
WA ooo con a SRO OGOD BOT TOC OOOO a
(CHHBEGEM | oSo0u0000 a ticutrt Barat cesve RG OSC HOnS eee
Moravian ....... SOHO OUGUH DO PR GUIC ONTO
Disciples. ccna. THUDD DOO Wels ae
‘Non-Church Members ....... Vitis Mae a Thiele 10
Motalehiisses ater her titi: PbeGins 1 peNOO
Representation by States

NOnthe@arolinaiiaiiicr ai hetiias veces as 282
South Carolina ......... ACE GD EDICT Onn 70
Geontlaynincsnc asc Restebieacse viet ena ieee eatin 47
‘Tennessee ........0.. ME dien iewisreirent Pack ernest ait 28
Alabama ...... SRT eee ere LT EES Tees 26
Florida ....... SPAT ROti etn Are RRR TE IRIE Te 24
NEISSISSIP Pb cece acectaectcacete ee eee ' Ashoee IO)
Virginia ..... PAVIA Oe eee Fe SERS EOO OC TOT 15
Arkansas ........ Gap Oe LO Cha HHT WALICS PEAT etd (0)
WestaViinginiaseriatiei se cies : SS aco Ratan 6
| Kentucky ...... Greluartemistelecsiaiaus Syste saeisais sisi 5
TOUS ANAS caeeAi castes scockte sieavie eo sieisien ys Scere case elo sie 4
DexXasashinciccaces Sa onneene sheen seus a
@©thetastatesemiisiii ii cee ies piers 5
Foreign ......... Gguayood sri celivecauarsiarscess iid aco
VLotalssccssaaseeres ee rar ese et cere er g00.

