4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 2,

1922

The DAVIDSONIAN

OPEN FORUM -

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

EXCHANGE
COLUMN

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson’as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: ‘
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

~ oe

icles for Publication mit be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
eg heel z Articles received from an unknown source will not: be published.

ooceee +++es Editor-in-Chiel H. H. SMITH ++e+.Forum Editor

PB RAIN SC Binet Managing Editor R.-C,-AIKEN ampus Editor
k. M. Second Managing Editor D. H. OGDEN... A. itor
R. R, ..»-Assignment Editor W. 'T. ELLIOTT.. Social Editor
H. thletic Editor H,.M. MORRIS.... iterary Editor

& F. WILDMAN.....-++s+-0. Alumni Editor . W. Z. BRADFORD...........- Press itor

We Me COX. .ccecccccccveee Exchange Editor ‘
PRESS BUREAU
W. Z. BRADFORD........eceeeeeees Manager W. F. GALLOWAY....... Assistant Manager
Assistants \

MILTON, W. E

MINTER, J. A. McLEOD, W. C.

COX, L. P.
APPELBY, J. M. SMITH, C. F.
Laat -pa DEPARTMENT

1) Fr ... Business Manager \

w. J. CO coe Wn
. J. H. VIS, G. E. WEEKS and W. G. GUILLE........00+00 Advertising Solicitors
RES eeu chim VIS..& Gane rAGHBTASt E. J. ROSCH..........000+ Advertising Copy
CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT
WATT MCcCAIN........ Circulation Manager S. C. FAIN........ «Asst. Circulation Mgr.
Assistants
R, B, LILES E. Cc. MOOMAW J. A. THOMPSON

REPORTERS’ CLUB

PRICE, H. B

BROWN, W. P.,. Pres. GALLOWAY, W. F. .B,

’R. HL, -Pres, LAKE, J. Ay Jr. SHARPE, W. H.
BROWN, Vi, Sections, Net LWAIN 7 M. WALTHALL,, D._B.
CALHOUN, MOP. MAUZE,'G W. WILDMAN, A. C.
EARNEST, J. R. MOFFETT, A._N. WILLIAMS, J. M,

_ FEWELL, xb. MOORE, W. Ht

Let’s don’t let a little hard luck discourage us, fellows. Everybody wanted
to win from Trinity and we all feel bad because we didn’t. There are four
hard games left on our schedule, however, and to win them will bring us much
praise. We have a team that can win every one but not a single one is going
to be easy. We don’t want to think they are, but we want to have fight and
spirit at those games we go to in a body, and we want to send our team off to
the others with the same fighting spirit they have manifested already this sea-
son. A. & E. look out!

D.

The way in which Mr. Robert K. Smith, deceased, a native of North
Carolina, remembered several of the State’s educational institutions so liberally
in his will certainly showed a deep interest in the cause of education, and
especially an interest in improving educational advantages in his native State.
We feel that nowhere could he have found a better place for the $50,000 that
he left Davidson, and hope that it can be used in such a manner as to justify
his bequest, which was greatly appreciated, and also to help influence others
who have similar interests to believe that here they can find a field of useful-
ness that merits such donations.

D.

SCOTLAND INSPIRING

OT often do we have the privilege of hearing such an instructive and at
N the same time interesting and inspiring lecture as that delivered last
Monday evening by Doctor McGeachy. The way in which he talked of Scot-
land would make any one take an interest in her people, history and traditions.
The character of the three great men of the country he dealt with, Burns,
Knox and Scott, was portrayed so eloquently and forcefully as to make a last-
ing impression. All who went came away wishing that. Doctor McGeachy
had told more of his trip and experiences. Those who missed this talk for any
reason certainly missed a treat.

D.
AN ERROR CORRECTED

HE last issue of The Davidsonian contained an editorial on the new

system of supervision that has been put in our dormitories this year.
Probably the same error has existed in the minds of many of the students that
was made in that article. When this plan was first proposed, it was stated that
some lady would be given the position of matron, However, this was not done,
and Mrs. Smith came to Davidson as supervisor of the dormitories, not as
matron, In this capacity she can better see that we learn for ourselves the
habits of orderliness and cleanliness that are so essential, and help instill in us
the desire to care for and improve our rooms, which should go hand in hand
with our desire for a better Davidson.

TD-
SELECT A SCHOOL RING

HERE has been for some time a growing sentiment that we should have
oR a standard ring at Davidson. It was talked of last year and year before
last and almost everyone expressed themselves as being in favor of adopting
one. The difficulty has not been that numerous arguments were not brought
up in favor of this idea, but that each Junior class believed it could pick a
design that was much better than that selected the previous year.

Tt does look as if this difficulty could be overcome and a ring selected and
adopted that would be permanent. The Juniors have not made their selection
for next year. Probably some of the desirable features of the ring of this
year’s class will be incorporated in the one they decide upon. Designs have
“yet to be submitted, and every man here has time to think over the kind of
ring that he would like to have selected.
© Ifthe ring committee of the Junior class can get the concensus of these
© ions, they can choose a ring that will appeal not only to a majority of their

11 toa majority of all the classes: Then they will be in a position to
ting adopted by the student body and become standardized. Such
ill be so beneficial that the chance should not be allowed

$ 3 ¢ 1

[E ] [ ¢
In a Southern garden at twilight,
Sat a Keydet and a lass;

He asked her to wear his class pin
In the honor of his class.

~w

He implored the maid to take it,
As they sat there on the grass;

So: she took the little emblem
4rthe honor of his class.

For a long time then she wore it,
But in the years that pass;
His class pin fastens baby clothes
In the honor of his class.
—The Cadet.

Bits of College Wisdom

First I kissed her on the nose, then
on the chin, and between the two I had
a wonderfully fine time—Sun and
Gold.

Most professors have no objection
to a student looking at his watch but
it’s not good diplomacy to hold it to
your ear in order to find whether it’s
ticking.

Some handsome student makes this
profound observation: Any girl will
flirt as the train is pulling out.

Wisdom is knowing what to do
next. Skill is knowing how to do it,
and virtue is doing it—Exchange.

A youth wants to know how long
girls should be courted.

Answer: Same as short ones.—
Charlotte Observer,

“Pray let me kiss your hand,” said
he, with looks of burning love.

“T can remove my veil,” said she,
“much easier than my glove.”

Who was the professor, who said
they didn’t have petting patties when
he was a boy? They called them hay
rides then,

“When he was courting her he ate
fudge. Now that he has married her
he eats cold beans from a tin can.

Love may be nothing but a chemical
reaction, But, oh! aren’t the labora-
tory experiments interesting ?

“What does a girl mean when she
puts A. B. after her name?”
“After bachelors, I suppose.”

She (vehemently) —“T — wouldn't
marry you if you were the last man on
earth!"

'He—"I don’t suppose you would—
you'd get killed in the rush!”

When Abraham Lincoln was a
young man he ran for the legislature
in Illinois, and was badly swamped,

He next entered business, failed, and
spent 17 years of his life paying up the
debts of a worthless partner.

He was in love with a beautiful
young woman to whom he became en-
gaged—then she died.

Later he married a woman who was
a constant burden to him.

Entering politics again, he ran for
Congress and was badly defeated.

He then tried to get an appointment
to the United State Land Office, but
failed.

He became a candidate for the
United States Senate and was badly
defeated. :

In 1856 he became a candidate for
the vice-presidency and was again de-
feated.,

In 1858 he
Douglas.

One failure after another—bad fail-
ures—great setbacks. In the face of
all this he eventually became one of
the country’s greatest men, if not the
greatest.

When you think of a series of set-
backs like this, doesn’t it make you
feel small to become discouraged just
because you think -you are having a
hard time in life ?—Kansas Official.

was defeated by

Get Behind Your Team
Last week in Greensboro, as we all
know too well, Trinity put it on us in
no uncertain manner. There’s no

| denying the fact that they really beat

us. Not that we haven’t as good a
team as they have—we have a better
one. If we hadn’t had as good a team
as they had we couldn’t have held them
as well as we did. Those who saw us
play Georgia Tech and V. P. I. know
of what kind of stuff our team is made
of. They are as good as any team in
this State and they are going to show
it yet.

Do-you know. that- some people are
saying that Davidson can’t play two
good games in succession. That's an
insult to our team to say that. Of
course, after a game like the V. P. I.
game the team is somewhat crippled up
and its harder for them to come back
as strong next week but they are real
men that we have on that team and
they will come back stronger than ever
now if we boys will help them. The
team doesn’t need the support of the
students so very much when they are
winning all their games. That in itself
is enough to keep them pepped up.
But after a hard game when they have
played their best and things didn’t go
right and the score was in favor of
the other fellow they feel downhearted
and blue. That's the time the men on
the team really do need the sympathy
and support of the student body.
That’s the time for the students to
show their sportsmanship and _ their
fight. Our team lost some games that
we thought they should have won.
Shall we go along and tend to our
business as if nothing had happened ?
No, now is the time for us to do our
part. Get out here and root for these
men while they are practicing. Have
some pep. Let them know that we
know that it was an accident last week
and that we don’t blame them. ‘Tell
them that we haven’t lost our con-
fidence in them and that we are back-
ing them harder than ever.

Some or saying that
because the student body
present last Saturday that we were
beaten. That’s not true. A team that
can’t play without its’ rooters being
present is not half a team. Of course,
its nice to have somebody on the side-
lines to yell for you when you make a
good play or to console you ‘when
‘something goes wrong. But look at
Centre. They play a great many of
their games away from the campus.
That doesn’t keep them from playing
good football. That’s no excuse. It’s
what the student body does on the
campus what counts. If we are inter-
ested all week before the game and
have pep meetings and show the team
that we are really behind them and are
expecting them to win, then they will
play with a spirit that can't be beaten.
We have two good examples right here
before us. The week before the V, P.
I. game we were all on our toes and we
let the team know it. The week before
the Trinity game we took things easy
and nothing was said about football ail
week except something about a train.
When that was not granted most of us
sat back down and didn’t bother about
the game any more except, to ask what
the score was: That's no way to do.
The game is half lost or won by the at-
titude that the student body takes to-
ward the game. We can’t expect the
team to do more than we do ourselves.
If we do our part then the team will
almost certainly do theirs. :

We didn’t do our part last week.

What are we going to do the rest of
the season ? H. S.

it was

Dormitories

The bedrock foundation of civiliza-
tion is.sanitation. In fact the former
is impossible without the latter—they
are inseparable. Once a person or a
community is genuinely and_thor-
oughly civilized, cleanliness, orderli-
ness and beauty become necessary ad-
juncts—a component part of the
whole. To live in a state of unclean
disorders is to live in a condition that
will sooner or later endanger the
morals, This has been proven. The
human being never lived who could
escape retrograding toward the state
of primitive man—if he lets the bars
down completely and allows himself

to drift. Carelessness of one’s sur-

wasn’t’

CAMPUSISMS

By O. J. ALLISON
It is rumored that John D. Parish
will be summoned to appear before
Judge Webb at the next term of court
on the charge of Desertion of the
Duchess.

The following men have been ini-
tiated into fraternities since the open-
ing of the fall term: J. I. Smith,
Beta; L. H. Brice, K. A.; H. I. Shep-
herd, S. A. E.

Citizens of West Dorm are asked to
prepare for the worst. John Simpson
is going to attempt to learn to toot a
cornet,

Duke Walthall spent the week-end
in Atlanta. Duke took in the Tech-
Notre Dame game and saw Tech wal-
loped on Grant Field.

A part of the $50,000 bequeathed to
the college might be used in purchas-
ing a new piano for Shearer Hall.
Visitors must get a bad impression of
the college from the disreputable in-
strument there now.

Those who enjoyed some good home
cooking during last week at Mrs. Rob-
son’s are: R. M, McGirt, J. B. Hall,
E. D. Brown.

John Simpson made the following
remark at the movies Saturday night
about the boy playing the banjo: “He
plays by the memory system and is
feeble minded.” George Lawson was
playing the banjo.

Nobody will stick their nose in your
business if you run a skunk farm,

The “Y” has frequently asked gen-
tlemen not to smoke at the movies.
From the smoke ‘screen put out Sat-
urday night there are evidently some
who do not consider themselves in this
class.

The first review in football was held
at the Gym last Friday night. Spratt
Moore made 100!

Bob McLeod spent a few days on
the Hill last week en route to N. C. C.
W. to teach them the Davidson yells.

Pat Crawford defines
“nothing divided by two.”

a kiss as

Bascomb Sorrells, president of the
Senior class, received a sample of
Kolynos Skin Soap recently. He’s
trying to cultivate “A skin you love to
touch.”

roundings is a blow at one’s self re-
spect.

Some of the most colossal fights ever
made for humanity have been made in
the interest of cleanliness. Florence
Nightingale’s spirit still goes marching
on and will for ages to come. Gen-
eral Gorgas built his monument at
Panama and earned the everlasting
gratitude of the world. Order is the
twin sister of cleanliness—they go
hand in hand. The keystone binding
together .these virtues and shedding
upon them her divine rays is beauty.
Flowers, music, pictures—refinement,
which always means graciousness in
our intercourse with each other—they
are all within our grasp if we care
enough to reach out and take them.
Doubtless we all know the old Chinese
adage—"If you have two loaves of
bread, sell one and buy a narcissus for ;
the soul.” Not to want the narcissus
for the soul is to admit that some fine
quality has been left out of our
composition. “There is in true
beauty, as in courage, somewhat
which narrow souls cannot dare to
admire,”

Youth and Opportunity are sym-
nonomous—and to the young men of
Davidson College is now given the
chance to prove whether or not they
value the ideals and standards of their
college sufficiently to include in the Da-
vidson spirit, of which we are hearing
so much these days, the most com-
mendable spirit of cleanliness’ and
order in the dormitories. How are
you going have a “better Davidson”
Without it? Just think what we could
accomplish if there were a hearty co-
operation ‘by all.

MRS. N. T. SMITH,
Supervisor Dormitories.
