4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 3, 1922.

The DAVIDSONIAN

lina Collegiate Press Association
aria pr ghee Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7 :00
p.m, Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

-Forum Editor

P. PRICE.--

Editor-in-Chief

J. '
\ x RIBS Fk. ---Managing Editor st SCR aA ees
H. H, SMITH..--:-.-Asst. Managing Editor ee ‘Ci h Editor
R. F, DAVIDSON --Assignment Editor ; ae
A. C. ORMOND... SAthietic Editor , H. OGD Literary. Editor
A. C. SUMMERS <Alumni_ Editor yt y
ee . H. McKEITHEN..-.
REPORTERS’ CLUB

BITZER, R., Pres. ARBRE Ce Wee V.-Pres.

RROWN Cn MORRIS, H, M. Scc,-Treas.

BROWN, W. P. SMITH, R. dip,

CALHOUN, M, P. TULLER, C.D.

COX, W. Be LACY, T._A WILDMAN, A. C.

ELRIOTT, “W. T. MAUZE, E. H. WILDMAN, C. F.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
L. --Business Manager

H L ae ete
L. A. TAYLOR, E. T. wooLkrolR and W. HEPARD Asst. Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
oi i i i t Circulati Depar :
M. R. DOUBLES.-.----- Circulation Manager A is in f RUE
eK I >, D. TULLER » C. FAIN P, C, HENDE
HR ROR Ae COieuInHOn Managers WATT McCAIN R. L, PRICE

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

“Say, did you pass? Then set fem up! Good work, my brilliant
brother. Say, did you flunk? Then pass the dope! Hard Luck! Let’s
have another!”

1)
That’s the start, Wildcats! Now keep it up!
D

Iiven the editors of a college newspaper must take a little time off
to study occasionally ; hence the failure of the Davidsonian to appear at
all curiae recent examinations, and its tardiness this weck.

D

Now is the time to get off toa good start in the new term’s work,
D
IS THIS DAVIDSON SPIRIT?

The basketball season is on at last, Already the warriors of the
Davidson quintet have met and defeated two opposing teams, and by
their dashing style of play have proven themselves well deserving of the
name of Wildcats. They have clearly shown that they are imbued with
the real Davidson spirit and that, win or lose, they will play the sort of
basketball which will bring only credit to their college. There is no
doubt but that the student body is proud of its team too, and. ready to
back it to the limit, and yet at times this spirit takes a very strange
way of asserting itself. ; , i

In most respects the crowd which attends the games on the local
court is unusually well behaved. The visiting teams are almost invar-
ibly treated with courtesy by the spectators, and good playing on their
part is generally applauded. On the other hand the cheering leaves no
doubt of the fact that they are heart and soul behind their own players.
Of late, however, a habit has crept in which hardly seems to be in accord
with the spirit of Davidson students. Several times in the two games
which have already been played, a shout of disapproval went up when
some Wildcat player made a bad pass or missed an easy chance at a
goal. No account was taken of the fact that the man in question was
giving his best for his school, and doubtless regretted his failure more
than anyone in the gallery. His feelings did not seem to be taken into
account by the spectators, who did not hesitate to voice their disappoint-
ment almost as loudly as they would have applauded his success.

Such actions cannot but have a bad effect on the morale of a team,
and it is because we know that they are only the results of thought-
lessness that we mention them. No Davidson student would willingly
be guilty of anything which would throw his loyalty to his team into
doubt, and we believe that a single mention of the matter is enough. Let
tis be more careful in the contests tonight, and throughout the remaind-

er of the month.
D

A CALL FOR ACTION.

"What has become of the Greater Davidson Club? Most of us are
familiar with the fact that this organization came into being almost
three years ago with the entire student body included in its_member-
ship, and with “A Bigger and Better Davidson” as it goal. The truth
of the statement that it has met with marked success in its efforts is
clearly attested by the fact since that time our enrollment has increased
from three hundred to five hundred students, and that this year’s
Freshman class is the best prepared group of men to which this in-
stitution has ever opened its doors.

So far as we have been able to learn, however, the club has lapsed
into idleness during the past term, largely because there seemed to be
no particular work to be accomplished. That statement can hardly be
made at present, however, now that Chambers is destroyed, any furth-
er hope of a larger student body in the near future has been removed,
even if it were deemed expedient to increase the present number.
Surely though, there is an even greater need for only the best students
now than there has ever been before. In the period of reconstruction
just before us, there will be a call for men of the highest character and
ability to uphold and carry forward the traditions of the college. It is
none too soon to start work on selecting the men for next year’s Fresh-
man class, and it behooves the Greater Davidson Club to busy itself with
this task.

Open Forum

Dots and Dashes

Note: The writer of the following
article was a member of Davidson’s In-
tercollegiate Debating Team for three
years. He recently won (for the second
successive year) a debating prize of
fifty dollars at Georgetown University,
where he is taking a course in law at
night while serving as secretary to one
of our congresssmen, He is a brother
of “Izzy” of the class of ’23.—Ed.
Dear Forum Editor:

I was interested in reading an editorial
in a recent issue of “The Davidsonian”
relative to the work of literary societies
at Davidson, and also note that two
new societies have been formed with the |
view of promoting greater interest in
this line of college activity. I am glad
to see such steps being taken and hope)
that they will meet with success.

My interest in the literary
did not abate during my four years at
Davidson, nor has it since. I have not
been away from there so very long, but
the longer I am away the-more I am im-|
pressed with the real value of literary
| society work to the college student. I
jam taking law at night at what is claim- |
led to be the largest law school in the
world, Georgetown Law School. Over
five hundred entered with my class, from |
every state in the union, and about 350}
of us are expecting to graduate this |

|
‘| armaments ?
socicties |

| DAVIDSON ATTITUDE ON THE
QUESTION OF
ny DISARMAMENT

1. Are you in favor of the Association
of Nations as proposed by President
Harding? (yes or no) Yes 77, No 64.

2. Are you in favor of the four-power
‘treaty in the Pacific? Yes 96, No 43.
| 3. Should the United States support
|China in her demands? Yes 103, No 35.

4. Should the use of submarines in
|; warfare be abolished? Yes 102, No 29.
| §. Should the use of poisonous gas in
| warfare be abolished? Yes 133, No 19.

6. Will the 5-5-3 ratio’ satisfactorily
settle the naval disarmament question?
Yes 83, No 64.

7. Should there be a limitation on land
Yes 120, No 28,

8. Should the United States join Eng-
land in guaranteeing to defend France

against German attack in the future?
Yes 103, No 44.
9. Should the Allied debts to the

United States be cancelled?
113.

The above, the sentiments of 154 stu-
dents, was mailed to the committee on
Disarmament last week, following the
questionnaire which the International
Kelations Club sent out.

Yes 41, No

This questionnaire was a novelty at

spring. While there are some excellent | Davidson, but we hope to have more of

speakers and debaters in this number,!/them. It is by such means as this that
and in the other classes, it is astounding | our representatives are enabled to get

to note the far greater number who can- the sentiments of the country, on ques-

not express themselves clearly and force-

fully, and who are nevertheless  ed-
ucating themselves for a profession
which. demands the exercise of such

ability. Any number of men have spoken
to me and told me how they regretted
they did not avail themselves of the op-
portunities for training along this line
presented to them at college; and oth-
ers, who attended college only a short
time, or not at all, haye also spoken of
the way they are handicapped in not
having the benefit of this experience. I
certainly hope that such confessions wifl
not have to be made by Davidson men.

Some months ago I heard Senator Har-
ris, of Georgia, remark that while at the
University of Georgia he did not take
much interest in literary societies, and
that this had been a source of regret to
him ever since; that he had been invited
to speak at Commencement there, and
that above everything else he was going
to urge the students to improve them-
selves along the lines afforded by the
literary societies.

I merely mention these things by way
of some encouragement to the men who
are <striving to keep literary society
work at Davidson alive and active, and
by way of suggestion to others who have
slighted it heretofore. Any man there,
regardless of what he is planning to do
after leaving college, should think twice
before he neglects such an opportunity
for self improvement. :

Sincerely yours,
John Allan Thames, '18.
D
SENIORS RELIEVED FROM THE
BURDEN OF WRITING THESES

For years past a Senior speech has
been a requisite for gradation from Da-
vidson. However, last-year it was de-
cided that instead of delivering a public
speech the Seniors would be required to
write’a thesis of at least two thousand
words.

Very few colleges, if any, have this re-
quirement in their curriculum, so after
a year’s trial of the Senior thesis plan,
the powers that be have decided that it
will be dropped? So when you hear Se-
niors give a deep sigh. of relief in this
time of exams, you may attribute it to
this cause.

Lee.
=

Ped

If you would make good you
must understand that the work
which counts is the work in hand—
it’s the things you've done that
show what you can, not the big-
ger and better things you plan.
The work you do NOW must be
done right if you reach your goal
or strike your utmost height—so
keep your aim but watch your
step, doing your part each day
with pep—for it’s not what you dé
but how you do it that counts in
making good.—Selected.

tions of importance to every citizen, in
a quick reliable way.

The homes of the men who comprise
our college student bodies, taken as a
whole, represent every legitimate bus-
iness and profession, and almost every
trend of thought in our country. This
enables the college men to speak for the
country as no other body of men are
able to do. This is an expression of the
confidence which the nation puts in her
college men so treat it as such and do
not abuse it.

The International Relations Club is
especially anxious that all students will
avail themselves of these opportunities
to expresss their views on questions of
inter-national importance,

D
THE CONSUMER CONTROLS PRICES
THEY SAY.

There may have been times in the
last few years when the American citi-
zen who usually thinks of himself
vaguely as “the consumer” felt that he
had’ mighty little to say about prices
or quality or anything else.

It seemed to him as though he had
to take what he could get and pay what
was demanded, and that there wasn’t
anything he could do about it.

He'll be surprised, if he'll read “The
Theory of Consumption,” which has just
won the $1,000 Hart Schaffner & Marx
Class A prize for 1921 for the best essay
on economics, to discover that he is the
master after all. The giant steel mill,
the builder of locomotives, the refiner of
sugar or the maker of needles all bow
to the command of the consumer in the
long run,

He'll be surprised, too, to learn that
in the period of after-war inflation, he
was largely responsible for the run-
away markets which put prices sky high.
He blamed some mysterious persons
whom he usually spoke of as “the profi-
teers” for it. If he happened to be a
producer of something, as well as a con-
sumer of many things, it never oc-
cured to him to include himself in the
“profiteer” group.

“The consumer” forced up prices when
he bought wildly beyond his accustom-
ed needs; he forced them down again
when he would no longer pay, or got
himself in a position: when he could no
longer pay the inflated prices.

It has ever been thus, and probably
always will be, according to “The Theory
of Consumption,” which was written by
Miss Hazel Kyrk, Ph., B., University of
Chicago, 1910; Ph.D., University of
Chicago, 1920; assistant professor of
economics 1913-18, and Statistician with
the American Shipping Mission in Lon-
don in 1918-19. It is a masterly study of
the subject written in a very readable
style and will be made available to the
public later in book form.

Second prize in Class A, $500, went to

(Continued on page 5)

es

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

THE SNOBBISH STUDENT.

“Will you learn a little faster?”
Said the teacher to the simp.
“There’s your father over yonder

And his pocketbook is limp;

You have wasted all his money,

You have whiled away your time,
Yet you sit there like a dummy,

Like a guy who’s done a crime.
Do you foster no regret?

Why, hang it all, he’s weeping—
And his tears are dripping wet.”
“Oh, dear, kind sir,” the student cried
With accents like a fish,

“You do me wrong to pester me
With things I do not wish;

The reason that I cannot think,
And stare so glum, ah me, «

Is that IT cannot cope with
The Einstein theory,

So that is why I gnash my teeth,
I tear my hair and weep,

I will not study any more,

Good night, I go to sleep.”
—Collegiate World.
D.
“HAVEN’T GOT TIME.”

’

Opportunity tapped at the door

With a chance for a brother within;
He rapped till his fingers were sore,

And muttered come’on let me in,
Here is something I know you'can do,

Here’s a hill I know you can climb.
But the fellow inside very quickly re-

. plied,
“Old fellow, I haven't got time,”"—Ex.
D.

William T. Tilden, 2d, world’s tennis
champion, will coach the University of
Pennsylvania tennis team this season,
He is a graduate of that university and
formerly intercollegiate champion.

D %

How do you spend your leisure time?
An authority has said that%f a man will
spend an hour a day in the study of any
particular subject for ten years, at the
end of that time he will have become
an authority in that particular line.
What .a comfort in old age will time—
leisure wisely spent in youth—be.

D.
SPEAKING OF. POETS.

Said the Tire Man—“I like Burns.”
Said the Crew Man—“I like Shelby.”
Said the Wharf Man—“T like ‘Long-
fellow.”
Said the Motorist—"I like Hood.”
Said the Cook—“I like Browning.”
Said the Soldier—“I like Service.”
Said the Optimist—“T like Hope.”
Said the Irishman—‘T like Riley.”
Said the Humorist—“I like Whittier.”
Said the Orphan—“I like Holmes.”
D.
You can always tell a senior,
By his most important air.
You can always tell a junior,
By the way he combs his hair.
You can always tell a sophomore;
He’s forever in a rush,
You can always tell a freshman,
But you cannot tell him much.
—Colorado Tiger.
D. ;
FATHER, WHAT DID YOU DO!

“My son, when I to college went,
I lived a life of ease.

I worked in all the stores in town
To pay tuition fees.

“But still I had a pile of time
To fool away in play,

And ‘go the rounds’ most every night,
As we were wont to say.

“I never opened up a book
Or wrote a measly theme.

Those really were the good-old days,
With college life a dream.”

“But father, did you fool the profs,

And keep away from pro?”
“My son, I don’t remember, since

I left in a month or so.”

: —Jack O’Lantern.
D.

Dr. James O. Reavis, of Nashville,
Tenn., was the week-end guest of Dr.
and Mrs. ‘Hood.

