4

<

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 24, 1922.

The DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
p. m. Monday. “Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

P. PRICE

Forum Editor

ven M i Campus Editor
.-Managing Editor . §, CURRY.-...-.-.----------. ‘amp Edi
W. i Managing. Editor . C, BAILEY, JR. -Y. M.C. A. Editor
R. EF. .-Assignment Editor - SPRUNT. Social Editor
A.C. ts Rtnletic Editor . H. OGDEN, terary Editor
A. mni Editor W. J. COOPE -Press Editor

Ree
M KEITHEN Exchange Edito

CLUB

MAUZE, G. W., V.-Pres.

REPORTERS’

BITZER, R., Pres. FEWELL, ED.

BRADFORD, W. Z. GRACY, J. S. MOORE, W. H,
mu ESTON, W. M. MORRIS, H. M., Sec.-Treas.
BROWN: W. YE lONES, wR SMITH, R. i.

"TULLER, C. D.
WALTHALL, D._B.
WILDMAN, A. C.
WILDMAN..C. F.

BROWN, W. P.
CALHOUN, M. P.
ELRING, ng D

oj NS, a .
ELLIOTT, W. T.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:

J. GC. WOOL... -.-0-. 225-2. Business Manager
E. T. WOOLFOLK and W. S. SHEPARD

Asst. Business Managers

L, A. TAYLOR,

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:

US sseccese irculati Manager in Cir Depar' 3
MB PORES aa GD TULLER S.C. FAIN B.C, HENDERSON
Orr: Asst. Circulation Managers WATT McCAIN R. L. PRICE ..

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

Three games in a row is a hard start for any team, but Coach
Hengeveld’s charges are ready for the fray. Here’s looking at you,
Wildcats !

D

The weather man reports that the surplus rainfall for this year al-
ready amounts to six inches, We are expecting Junior Speaking to run
the total up to at least ten,

D
“When you think you've about reached the end of your rope just

tie a knot and hold on.”
D

JUNIOR SPEAKING.

HE time has come at last. That fateful hour in the life of every

Junior Class is about to sound for all those who boast the proud

numerals of 1923, From tomerrow afternoon until Monday the
life of the college is to be turned from its regular channels, and the
campus will be overwhelmed with a downpour of oratory, fair visitors,
and, it is to be feared, rain, In other words, Junior Speaking is to be
celebrated once more. :

All this is, of course, no news to the student body. We have all
known of the coming event for weeks past and some have taken an ac-
tive interest in plans for the occasion, but for the most part we have
assumed an attitude of indifference to the whole affair. It is perhaps not
out of order, therefore, to call attention here to one or two facts.

The Junior Class has worked faithfully and well to make their
speaking a success. No pains have been spared to furnish places for
all the visitors, and to provide them with suitable means of entertain-
ment while here. In fact just about everything possible has been done
to afford an enjoyable occasion forall, These efforts will all prove of
no avail, however, if the other students do not co-operate. .Why not
help the Juniors make this the best speaking ever by attending all the
public exercises and entertainments which will go to make up this. Ju-
nior Speaking? Fair play demands that we do no less.

1).

SHALL WE LOSE THIS TOO?

The present school year has marked the passing of the chief glory
of Davidson’s campus, the historic Chambers building. The loss of this
stately edifice has worked an injury to the appearance of the college
which must be seen to be realized, but our campus is still a beautiful
place and by proper care can be made still more beautiful. Unless more
is done to protect our grass, however, it will not be long until we lose
another one of the things so dear to the heart of all Davidson men.

A few years ago Davidson had one of the most beautiful lawns in
the South. Today this can hardly be asserted as the fact, and one can-
not but fear what may be the case tomorrow. The beauty of the cam-
pus has,already been seriously marred by the paths which students have
worn in taking short cuts. Rather than go to the trouble of walking
a few extra yards they have deliberately cut new paths across the grass,
and even today the process of widening old paths and of cutting new
ones goes on.

But this is not the only damage which is being done. The R. O. T.
C. Battalion is gradually wearing away the grass of the front campus,
and great, almost bare patches are to be noticed here and there where
drill or mass games have been especially long continued. If the lawn
continues to be used as a drill ground Davidson will soon have only an
expanse of bare earth instead of a carpet of green to lend beauty to her
buildings,

Something should be done, anddone at once to remedy this condi-
tion. We believe that a new and better drill ground should be provided
for the R. O. T. C. at the earliest possible moment, for the present ar-
rangement works to the disa@vantage of both the college and the bat-
talion. The matter of cutting paths can be much more easily handled
and we believe that the students themselves should take some action to

stop this practice. Unless something is done soon there will be no grass
to save.

| Open Forum

CONSIDERATION.

altogether dependent on the ladies of
the town to take care of our girl friends
at the time of the social functions, to
place them in rooms, ‘and that owing to
the restricted hotel accommodations we
simply could not have girl friends here
over night if it were not for the town
ladies.

But is it fair to impose on the accom-
modation of our beneficiaries in asking
them to fix up a room and then, long

that the girl had refused to come a day

|or two after you had asked for a room?
Or is it doing the fair thing to go in and
| sit in the sitting room when you take
| your friend home at midnight or later?
| This last practice is not only not agree-
lable to the other people living in the
house but the average householder in
| Davidson does not think it is the proper
\thing to do, The fraternity halls and the
| Social Center at the Gym are the places

at the homes in which our girl friends
are staying, and we certainly should not

one of us who happen to have late dates,
and for tWe sake of those who are so
kind to us we ought to. cooperate with
them. instead of doing things that are
obviously disagreeable to’ them.

+ D.

BACK THEM UP.

Once more, or rather for the first time
—to hear some speak—Junior Speaking
is coming into its own, Last year, this
year’s Seniors put across an occasion
that was certainly, to say .the least,
classy, and this year’s Junior class claims
that they are going to put over a still
better one, A

But there way in which the
speaking fell down last year and will
fall down this year unless present pre-
dittions fail, And that is in the attend-
ance on the speaking exercises them-
selves. The 16 men who speak are a
chosen bunch, they are men who have
well worked out speeches and have the
ability to deliver them well, so the per-
sons who go to hear them will certainly
lave a treat in store for themselves.

But there is this other side to it. Since
this is Junior Speaking, it is only right
that we should back the class to the last
man, and the men in the class who have
thought over the matter want and are
asking that everybody come out to these
two occasions.

Of course, it has been the custom
around here for the speakers to have an
audience composed of the judges and a
few personal friends of the speakers.
tut what do we care for precedent; it
has been broken too many times around
here lately for it to stand in our way if
there is something better in view.

So the thing for every one of us to do
is to come out to these two sessions of
speaking, one Saturday morning and the
other that night, and show the speakers
that we can appreciate good speaking
as well as we can good acting and other

good amusement. 22,

is one

D.
THE CALL OF THE WILD.

About this time of year there is-a cer-
tain feeling in every fellow that makes
him feel like he ought to stay out of
doors all the time. It is the same call
that came to our wild ancestors when
they roamed the woods and lived in
caves—the call of the wild. But there is
so much to do around here that very
few of the fellows take enough time off
to really enjoy this wonderful change in
Nature that is going on now—and aren't
we losing a lot by it? Is there anything
that makes a man feel more like a new
man, that makes a fellow feel closer to

in the changing, awakening out-of-doors
and see all that is going on there. These
afternoons are great, these nights are
wonderful and each one of the fellows
on the campus certainly owes it to him-
self to take time enough to enjoy them
by getting out of their rooms for a little
while at least each day. N. L, .

j
Fellows, we all recognize that we are

after speaking is over to tell them we}
are sorry not to have told them long ago

pa , |
we should use as sitting rooms in the |
late evenings, and not the sitting rooms |

Mays has been clected president of the
pete | Student Government Association; Win-
impose om the hostess after midnight ,,;, May Rowland, of the Athletic Asso-
when most people want to sleep. This |

is an individual duty that rests on each y wc A,

nature and to God, than to take-a walk.

With Other Colleges

|. PHI BETA CHI INITIATES AT -
| QUEENS.

March 22—The Phi |

Charlotte, N. C.,
Beta Chi Science Club held its initiation |
on last Saturday evening. After the;
\initiation a banquet was given by the}
members to the honorary members from)
the faculty, the new members and sev-,
cral prominent physicians ‘from Char-)
lotte, who have given several lectures to}
the Science classes during the year. The!
banquet, was given at the Guthery apart-|
ments. :

D
BLAND ROBERTS ADDRESSES
QUEENS STUDENTS

|, Charlotte, March 22.—Bland Roberts,)
traveling secretary of the Student Vol-
unteer Movement, addressed the student
body of Queens College, March oth.
'While at the college he was the guest of
the Volunteer Band and the delegation
to the Greensboro Conference.
{SSeS p Eee
ODDS AND ENDS.

Meredith—Elections for 1922-23 are
now taking place at Meredith. Louise

ciation, and Elizabeth Kendrick, of the

Lenoir—Monday night at 8 o’clock, in
the college auditorium, Edward Abner
Thompson, the blind reader, gave a very

famous tragedy, Hamlet.
D.

of the committee of judges.
Appropriately designed gold, silver,
and bronze medals will be awarded for

test, while every writer getting his edi-
torial sent to the judges will receive a
certificate of honorable mention,

The editorials must not exceed 500
words and are to be typewritten on one
side of regular plain letter size sheets.

mitted to send one editorial to the com-

with three faculty members acting as
judges, picking the winner, whose edi-
torial will then be entered in the south-
wide contest at the prescribed time.

Scheme of Identity.

In grder to save embarrassment on the
part of the local and Southern commit-
tees, assumed names are required on the
upper right hand corner of the editorials

on plain sealed envelope, in which. the

of the writer will be contained. The
editorial, with this envelope attached,
will first be given to the local committee,
and still sealed, sent to the general com-
mittee chairman.

Awards in this contest will be made at
the annual convention of the association,
to be held the latter part of April at a
place yet to be selected. Officers of the
association are: President, Chas. F.
Leek, University of Richmond, Va.; vice-
presidents, M. I. Deitch, University of
Tennessee, Knoxville, Tenn., for Ten-
nessee, Kentucky, Mississippi, Alabama,
and Louisiana Bowie Millican, Emery
University, Ga. for North Carolina,
South Carolina, Florida, and Georgia ;
Miss Burkella Wells, Randolph-Macon
Woman’s College, Lynchburg, Va., for

Maryland, Delaware, District of Colum-

skillful interpretation of Shakespeare's],

Veterans, Atlanta, Ga., who is chairman |.

frst, second and third places in the con-|<

Each college or university will be per-|-

mittee, a local contest closing April 3d,|44-

and that same assumed name is required | *

proper name, address, school and home|*"'

%

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

LIST OF DAVIDSONIAN
EXCHANGES.
(May Be Found in Gym.)

1. The Wildcat, Alexandria, La.

«. The Mississippian, Univ. Miss.

3. The Carolinian, N. C. C. W., Greens-
boro, N. C. :
The Student Life, Claremont, Calif.

5. Arizona Wildcat,U. of Ariz. Tuc-
son, Ariz.

€. The Mercer Cluster, M. Univ., Ma-
con, Ga.

7. The Toya, Georgetown Univ., Wash-
ington, D. C.

8. Rollins Sandspur, Southern Col.

9. The Emory Wheel, Emory U., Ga.

10. The Guilfordian, Guilford Col., N. C.

11. The Howard Crimson, H. Col., Bir-
mingham, Ala.

12. Davenport Weekly Record, L.enoir,
N.C.

13. The Rotunda, Farmville, Va.

14. The Tar Heel, Chapel Hill, N. C.

1s, The Wm. Jewell Student, Liberty,
Missourir

16. The Ring Tum Phi, W. & L., Lex-
ington, Va.

17, The Anchor, Hope Col., Holland,
Mich,

18. The Red and Black, Univ. of Ga,
Athens, Ga.

20 The Va. Tech, V. P. I.

The White.Topper, Emory & Henry
Col, Emory, Va.

| 22. Queens Blues, Queens College, Char-
SOUTHERN PRESS lotte, N.C.

ASSOCIATION TO HAVE 23. The Berry News, Mt. Berry, Ga.
WRITING CONTEST | 24. The Cornet, G. H. S., Gainesville,
pases, Fla.

S. I. N, A. Headquarters—The South-|#5. The Spectator, © Ag. Col., Colum-
ern Intercollegiate Newspaper Associa- bus, Miss. }
tion, which came into being ‘at. the Uni-|26. Vanderbilt Hustler, V. Univ., Nash-
versity of Richmond last spring, has an- ville, Tenn.
nounced a Southwide Editorial Contest,|27- The Blue & Gray, Frederick, M4.
which is open to all bona fide students|-8. The Technique, Ga. School of Tech-
of every white college and university nology, Atlanta, Ga.
from the Mason and Dixon Line to the|29. The Richmond Collegian, R. Col.,
Gulf, and from the Mississippi to the Richmond, Va. i
coast. For this the first contest,.a writ-]30. The Crimson & White, Univ. of Ala.
able subject has been selected which is|3!. The Lenorian, Hickory, N. C.
as follows: “Contributions of the Col-|32 U. of R., Redlands Univ., Redlands,
lege Newspaper to College Life.” Calif,

The contest. opens immediately and]33. The Targum, Rutgers College, New
will close April 10, 1922, at which time Brunswick, N. J. i
editorials must be in the hands of Hon.|34. The Lawrentian, Lawrence Col., Ap-
NB. Forrest, commander-in-chief, Gen- pleton, Wis.
eral Headquarters Sons Confederare}3f- The R. M. A. Sabre, Front Royal, Va.

The Baylor Lariat,
Waco, Tex.

The Critagraph,
Lynchburg, Va.
The Cadet, V. M. I., Lexington, Va.

Baylor Univ.,

Lynchburg Col,

jo The Twig, Meredith Col., Raleigh,
N. C,

40. The Sun Dial, R. M. Woman’s Col.,
Lynchburg, Va. :

41. Old Gold and Black, Wake Forest,
N.C.

12. High Life, G. H. S., Greensboro, N.C.

43. The College Reflector, Miss. Ag. Col.

144. The Piedmont Owl, Demorest, Ga.

45. The Student Life. Pomona Col.,

Claremont, Calif.

46. The Winthrop Col. News, Rock Hill,
SUG;

47. The Lafayette Weekly, Lafayette
Col., Easton, Pa.

18. The Advocate, Alex. Graham High
School, Charlotte, N. C.

ay. The Sou'Wester, Clarksville, Tenn.

The Sewanee Purple, Univ. of the
South, Sewanee, Tenn:

The Purple and White, Millsaps Col.,
Jackson, Miss.

The Gamecock, Univ. of S. C., Co-
lumbia, S. C.
The Salemite,
Salem, N. C.
The Blue Stocking, Pres. Col, of S.
C., Clinton, S. C.

wn
N

Salem Col., Winston-
‘

55. G. H. S. Comet, Gainesville, Fla.

so. The Mississippi Hts. Review, Blue
Mt., Miss.

57. The Maroon and Gold, Elon College,

N. C.

bia, West Virginia, and Virginia; and
secretary-treasurer, R. E. Garst, Univer-
sity of Richmond, Va.

Any. Davidson students desiring to
compete in this contest may hand their
editorials to J. M. Richards, on or be-
fore the third day of Agrit.
