On to
Charlotte!

THEDAVI

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. X

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 28, 1922

No. 2

CHARLOTTE PASTOR SPEAKS
AT SUNDAY VESPER SER

Rev. G. F. Bell Addresses Stu-
dents on Prevalent Voices.

The “Y” meeting in Shearer Hall Sunday.
night was opened with the song service,
after which Weeks, Burney and Grey led in
prayer, The speaker of the evening, Rev. G.
F, Bell, of the Knox Memorial Presbyter-
ian Church, of Charlotte, and a graduate of
Central University, class of '98, was next
introduced by W. J. Cooper.

Mr. Bell took his text from St. Luke, 23rd
chapter, 23rd verse: “And their voices pre-
vailed.”

The speaker began by picturing the story
of Jesus’ trial, in which the passion of the
crowd for His death prevailed. Within was
the prisoner, one whose voice was heavenly
and who thought not of himself. Without
was the crowd, all classes of which united
in demanding His surrender with voices of
passion, envy, personal resentment, ignor-
ance and wilful unbelief. The governor
could find no fault with the prisoner, and
while his better nature favored Jesus his
weak nature favored the crowd, and the
crowd won. Policy and expediency won and
produced an unspeakable tragedy.

Each of us, Mr. Bell said, is standing
where Pilate did. Voices of passion, indif-
ference and ignorance are assailing-—ts.
Voices are being raised against our sane,
quiet Sabbath, against our Constitution and
the prohilition amenement. Voices of
skepticism arise. Modern novels taunt the
Christian religion and advocate radical
things. The speaker told of the daughter
of a friend, who returned from an eastern
college with her faith gone. “Are these
voices going to prevail in the light of this
land? The answer is with you and me. As
goes the individual, so the family, the state
and the nation.”

“The voice of the market” robs some men
of their finer sensibilities and religion, dulls
their conscience and leaves them no spiritual
vision, and robs them of the confidence and
friendship of the finer business man. Like-
Wise the “voice of fashion and social ambi-
tion” robs women of what is fine and makes
them believe the incidental to be essential.

“Yourig men, go full steam ahead, lose
your reserve, run with the crowd—keep up
the pace. The fellow who, independent of
the crowd, defies and stands out from the
crowd, and holds to his convictions against
the crowd is the one that gets on—not the
crowd.” Men like Washington and Franklin
kept their convictions and beliefs, and lost
popularity with the crowd but served man-
kind. It is so easy, said the speaker, to run
with the crowd and go against sacred beliefs
and truths of childhood.

“There is One, who calm, majestic, silent,
deeply concerned, dedicated His life to us
and stands yearning for us, What are we
going to do with Jesus? Which will prevail,
the voice within or the voice without?”

THE WILDCAT SCREAMS

DAMIDSON DAY TO BE HELD
IN CHARLOTTE ON OCT. 20D

Entire Student Body Will Be
Guests of Charlotte Civic
Body,

Monday,’ October 2nd, promises to be an
enjoyable and prosperous day for Davidson
College, in that the entire student body is to
be the guests of the citizens of Charlotte.

The Chamber of Commerce, representing
the citizens of Charlotte and directed by Mr.
C. O. Kuester, has kindly invited the students
of Davidson College to be their guests on
that day, during the ‘““Made-in-Carolinas Ex-
position.”

Many plans are being formulated for the
pleasure of the students and it is assured
that every one will have a delightful time.
The present plan is that a hundred automo-
biles or more, will come to Davidson to
carry the student body to Charlotte and
bring them back. After arriving in Char-
lotte a trip over the city and to all points
of interest will be made. Dinner will be
served at the Chamber of Commerce build-
ing. After lunch the party will proceed to
the ““Made-in-Carolinas Exposition,”

The Governors of North and South Caro-
lina will be present to deliver interesting
talks. Among the most important attrac-
tions are the noted musicians and the famous
Russian Symphony Orchestra of New York.

Special Davidson exercises will be held
on the grounds demonstrating Davidson's
appreciation of Charlotte’s hospitality,

THE RADCLIFFE CHAUTAUQUA
ANNOUNCES VARIED PROGRAM

Students to Enjoy Three Days’
Entertainment.

The Radcliffe Chautauqua, which comes to
Davidson on October 6, 7 and 9, will present
yne of the best programs ever seen at Da-
vidson. ;

On Friday, October 6, the opening day of
the Chautauqua, the afternoon performance
will consist of a musical program by the
Clifford Collins Company. Milburn, the
nagician, will also give a performance of
mystifying stunts. Doctor Culp will also
ecture on’ “Making Your Dreams Come
True” or “The Psychology of Life in a
World Like This.” That evening Doctor
Culp will lecture on “The Spirit of the Colo-
nist.” Doctor Culp was here last year and
was enjoyed: by all.

On the afternoon of the second day, J.
Coates Lockhart and his Scotch Lassies will
ippear in a musical performance. Mr. Lock-
hart is a wonderful interpreter of Sir Harry

Wauder. There will be no lecture on this
day. e
The third afternoon brings another

musical program with the Marshall Novelty
Company, consisting of Swiss hand bells,
zello, xylophone and vocalists. Dr. Albert
Marion Hyde will lecture on “The Spirit of
the Pioneer.” That evening Doctor Hyde
will lecture on “The Durable Satisfaction of
Life,” and the Marshall Novelty Company
will appear again.

The guarantors of the Chautauqua this
year are: W. H. Thompson, S. J. Chris-

tenbury, C. H. Hamilton, C. M. Stiles, C. O.

Potts, M. H. Goodrum, T. E. Lothery, A.
R. Proctor; J. L. Stewart, J. R. Caldwell, J.

SPRATT MOORE—
MIDGET CAPTAIN

J. S. Moore, better known to his many
friends and admirers as Spratt, entered Da-
vidson in the fall of 1920 after spending two
years at the University of South Carolina
and the Citadel. He made the varsity foot-
ball team in his freshman year here and
turned the trick again last fall. Last spring
the letter men departed from the ancient
custom and elected him, a junior, captain for
this year.

For two years Spratt has been one of the
brightest lights in the Wildcat pigskin
firmament that has been literally filled with
stars. During that period he has gained
more ground than any other athlete who
sports the Red and Black. And he has made
this record in spite of the fact that he is the
lightest pigskin artist since the days of Tiny
Graham. This midget human torpedo tips
the scales at bare 125.

Tlie little halfback does everything and
does it to a queen’s taste. He passes, he
plunges, ,he runs. His specialty, however, is
skirting the opponents’ ends for huge hunks
of territory. Once he gets past the line of
scrimmage he is a terror, being a past master
at the arts of choosing his field and slipping
between would-be tacklers. In addition he
can crack a line as though it was made of
paper and hurl forward passes with uncanny
accuracy.

D.

Habit of Saving

No young man starting out for himself
being dependent upon his own exertions can
afford unnecessary expenses. He must deny
himself extras or always remain poor. Even
a five cent cigar each day will amount to
$18.25 in one year; and one who saves that
sum will be much ahead of the one who
spends it. And the habit of saving: will be

DAMIDSON SOON TO POSSESS
A PH BETA KAPPA CHAPTER

Local Students to Wear Famous
Key of Honor Organization.

After about six years of work, Davidson
has been granted a chapter of the Phi Beta
Kappa National Scholastic Fraternity. The
date for the installation has not definitely
been decided, but it will probably be some
time during this fall,

The bringing of Phi Beta Kappa to David-
son is largely the result of Prof. J. M.
McConnell’s work. Six years ago, under
his leadership, the plan was started for get-
ting a Davidson chapter: A short while ago
he received a letter from the national secre-
tary, stating that Davidson would be granted
a chapter and also indicating that some in-
stitutions had been working as much as 50
years for a chapter.

Both student and alumni members may be
installed as members of Phi Beta Kappa.

At present, the faculty members of Phi
Beta Kappa are: Doctors Martin, Wood,

eNO EPS OEEL | py Voureanes ieee

FRESHMAN FOOTBALL SQUAD
BEING ROUNDED INTO SHAPE

Attractive Schedule for First

Year Men.

A difficult: schedule of six games is. the
task that is facing the freshman foothall
team, Beginning with the P. C. fresh at
Rock Hill on October 19, and ending with
the Clemson fresh on Turkey Day, a repre-
sentative number of Carolina teams will be
played. For several years the scrub teams
have been playing a schedule of games but
the division of the squad into varsity and
freshmen units is a new thing on the “Hill.”

The immediate cause of this change of
policy is anew $. 1. A. A. ruling to the ef-
feet that no athlete can play more than three
years of intercollegiate sports. While this
ruling does not specifically bar freshmen, it
will amount to that in) practice, because
Coach Grey is not willing to play a man his
first year at the expense of his services later
on,

Ever since the division of the squad last
week the fresh have been hard at work and
it is surprising how human they look without
fresh caps. Captain George of the R. O. T.
C., is coaching the team and expects to have
the green rubbed off and a fighting tan in
its place by the time of the first game in
October.

McDonald, Land, Sappenfield and Black
form a backfield combination that will be
hard to beat. Black and Land are both of
varsity caliber and would have been heard
from with the first team but for the new
ruling. Alford and MecMillian are subs.

The line is not quite as experienced ‘as the
backfield, but a little seasoning will put
them in tip top shape. Baker, of G. M. A.,
and Crayton, of Charlotte, cavort around
the ends while Anderson, of Staunton, Va.,
and Dowd, of Army-Navy prep, smear up
the opposition at tackle. McMillian and
Green at guard, and Cox at center, complete
a line that has a good deal of promise.

The freshmen schedule follows:

October 19—P. C. Fresh at Rock Hill,
hs (Ch

October 27—South Carolina Fresh at Co-
lumbia, S. C.

WILDCATS BLANK ELONITES
IN SEASON'S INITIAL FRAY

Christians Fail to Score Single
First Down Saturday.

Before a crowd of 2,000 people, the Wild-
cats opened their 1922 campaign by a clear
cut win over Elon, 24-0.

The issue of the battle was never in doubt.
rom the start the Wildcats showed the way
in“every department of the game, outpunt-
ing, outpassing, outgaining and incidentally
outscoring their opponents. Frequent fum-
bles marred the game, the Wildcats recover-
ing most of their own and opponent’s fum-
bles. ‘The Maroon and Gold was unable to
make a single first down, while the Red and
Black scrappers made the distance 20 times.

‘In the first quarter the Wildcats were de-
cidedly off color, but worked like a machine
in the second quarter, scoring two touch-
downs. At no time was the Davidson goal
line in danger and at only one time in the
contest was the ball in Elon’s possession in
Davidson's territory, In the first period
Dick fumbled on the 37-yard line and Elon
recovered, The Christians advanced to the
30-yard line where they were forced to punt
after which operations were shifted to Elon
territory for the remainder of the game.

Captain Spratt Moore, the midget leader
of the Wildcats, rang up the first score of
the season when he ran 13 yards through the
center of the Elon line for a touchdown. It
was a beautiful exhibition of the broken-field
running for which Spratt is noted. Honors
for the longest ruin of the da¥ go to Leonard
Dick, the field general of the Red and Black
club, who executing a perfect fake dashed
34 yards through the Elon players.

Spratt and Gig Shepherd were the chief
ground gainers for the Wildcats and both
seem to be going better than ever before.

After the first team had made two touch-
downs the serubs were sent in, They marched
down the field toward a touchdown but
with the ball on the nine-yard line the half
ended. Hendrix ran his team well and in
the third quarter, with Regen and Faison on
the flanks, the scrubs scored when Faison
grabbed Hendrix's pass over the goal line.

Bill Joe Martin played a great game at
full, while Boggs, Hunt, Covington and
Crawford were consistent ground gainers.

In the last quarter the varsity returned to
the game and Gig carried the ball over for
the second time during the contest. During
the final minute of play the Wildcats were

(Continued on Page 2)

What’s Doing

THURSDAY, SEPT. 28.
Davidsonian arrives, 3 p. m.
Phi society—7 :30 p. m.

Eu society—7 :30 p.m .

Pandeimic society—8 :30 p. m.
FRIDAY, SEPT, 29.

Wildcats vs. P. C. at Clinton.

SATURDAY, SEPT. 30.

Movies—Thomas Meighan” in
You Believe Its So.”
SUNDAY, OCT. 1.
Volunteer band—10 a. m.
C. EF. Training class—1 p. m.
Ministerial band—1 :45 p. m.
Bible class—3 :30 p. m.
“Y" service—6:15 p. m.
MONDAY, OCT. 2.
College guests of Charlotte
“Made-in-Carolinas” Exposition.

“rg

at

I. Carter, J. J. Withers, J. W. MacConnell,| worth everything. If he saves $18.25 each} November 4—Oak Ridge at Davidson. TUESDAY, OCT. 3.
J. M. Douglas, S. M. Griffith, H. D. Tor-| year, only putting it at six per cent simple] November 9—A. & E. Fresh at Pine- Bible class leaders—9 p. m.
- +7 rence, C. B, Reynolds, C. E. Tidder, H. B.| interest, it would in twenty years amount] hurst, N. C. Metrophlian society—7:15 p. m.
a, _—— eS a ae t), = Elliott, F. L. Jackson and H. B. Arbuckle. to $570. So much for one little trifle of} November 17—Wofford Fresh at Rock WEDNESDAY, OCT. 4.
De gta a a ye D indulgence. |He who would in a few years| Hill, S. C. Bible classes—Where Do We Need
; How lu It 1s that the man in} No really Agnes, a railroad crossing is|be independent, and yot envy the “capital-| November 30—Clemson Fresh at Clem- New Standards?”—9 p. m.
the moon is “a nd. not a track meet. ist” must start right. son, S. C. =
HOMECOMING DAY — V.P.1. — OCT. Z2tist
onrpaiteareceorene mete feet Pathe manenysa ™ : PP p

VIR SONIAN
