4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 1, 1923

The DAVIDSONIAN

OPEN FORUM

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association | |
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class,

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
p. m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

Do the Right Thing

The question of whether or not we are)
ready to kick hazing out of Davidson for |
good and al! will soon be brought sharply |
/to the forefront and you will be asked to
'make your decision and cast your ballot.
We have given the board of control a trial |
and must now decide if we Jule) to go back
\to the old regime.

In thinking about this matter, we must
lay aside all personal feeling and be men

R. F. DAVIDSON............ Editor-in- eet) H. H. SMITH .-.Forum itor | i
i D. SHS Gee: Phi Managing jor Re © oanay Ae ue) he present system of the board of control, per-
R. R. JONES... weve tn Tod itor W. T. ELLIOTT % al itor haps, but we must think seriously before we |
« MAUZE....ccsevccsece Athi i H. M. MORRIS........ t itor | g . ‘ ‘

Ep WILDMAN ‘Alumel, Editor WZ, BRADFORD. .vo.eol Press Editor condemn our college to a second rank in
POO Keereetesntstes Exchange Editor \this respect. We are jealous of the reputa- |

PRESS BUREAU | Soe |tion of Davidson in athletics, in debating,

W. Z. BRADFORD..........eseeeees Manager W. F. GALLOWAY....... Assistant Manager and scholastic standing. Are we then willing

to have the pest of hazing exist here, lower-
ing our standards in the minds of all men?

This article is not to persuade you to vote
one way or the other, but rather to urge
you to consider the welfare of the. college
when you make your decision.

—A DAVIDSONIAN.

MINTE

Assistants
BARRINGTON,
RA’ TCH

McINTOSH, Mtoe
BUSINESS DEPARTMENT

. CO! OF [pcucoy WG, CUTER en
Ba ERS an J. BOSCIEL IIT.

“CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT

SMITH, C, F,
APPLEBY, J. M. iRORDY B. V. D.

Advertising Solicitors
Advertising Copy

WATT MCcCAIN........ Circulation Manager J. A. THOMPSON....Asst. Circulation Mgr. D.

Co eee. en NUT SUNDAES
BROWN, W. P., oF Let esto PRICE, R. L.
SMITH, R. H., ’ Vice Pres. 5 VER, D. 'D. SHARPE, W. H.
BROWN, C. V. .-Treas, MUZE G. W. WALTHALL, D._B. ; i
ALLISON, 0. }. OFFETT, A.N. WHARTON, D. B. One of the professors while calling the
CALHOUN, M, P. OORE, . H. WILDMAN, A. C 4 v :
EARNEST, J. R. PATTON, J. H. WHITE, H. M. ithe roll last Friday on finding so many ab-
aN LOwAy, Vado 35 oe TOMAS Yh I. WAPIELCH Up do sent, remarked that he had been told that

everyone except the rough-neck element had

gone to the laymen’s cenvention. When he
|got no response to H. M. White’s name, he
said: “I thought surely Mr. White would
have been with us.”

All the baseball squad has reported; quite a formidable looking aggrega-
tion. With Captain Crawford and Coaches Currie and Hengrodt in charge,
a fine team for old Davidhon should be whipped into shape.

TRACK

No only has baseball begun, but track practice has also gotten under:
way. We have a good nucleus of letter men to build a team around,
even though two of our best men will probably have to be out because of

ies and sickness, which is greatly to be regretted. Davidson has put
out a good team in track in the past and she should do so again. Coach Grey
while in school here, was one of the best men in the field events that we have _
ever had, establishing several college records, some of which have* ie beén
broken since. gd

This spring Coach Grey can devote more of his timeto the’track team,
and with the proper support on the part of those going out in what he wants |
done, and the interest of the student body, he will4e able to build up a good
team. With the continuation of the field day exercises which were started |
again last year, the interest of all can be gotten in the track team, and the |
work of the candidates improved in anticipation of this event. Everyone with
track ability should report at once, if they have not done so already, and all
co-operate with Coach Grey in’ what he plans. |

Red McPherson was recently operated on
for appendicitis. He is still at the hospital
in Sanford, where it is reported he is getting

along splendidly. ee

Iodoform seems to have become a popular
perfume with the student body.

Joe Caddell read the lips of the players at
the movies so well Saturday night that it is
‘rumored he is to be employed by ‘the movie
committee for this work permanently,

Notice Please:
Ved Jones’ Valentino style hair.
Montague’s permanent wave.
Gig Shepherd’s walk.
George McCutcheon’s riding breeches.
Bob McLeod’s upper lip.
Angus McBryde's new shoes.
D Bill Glenn’s new overcoat.
Bob Gordon's sublime..smile (near the

THE FIRE | library).
ITH a destructive fire during both the last school year and this one, Monk's vermillion fresh cap.
there very nearly comes a spirit of discouragement and a lack of enter-
prise to those who are students’ at Davidson, as well as those who have the | smelig Snidarxote Sallntury: esis oatbare
college at heart. However, if there is one thing in particular that we do want iDindsay of! Bennetteville, Cornelia Wearn
to avoid and steer clear of, it is this kind of spirit We have many things to and Mildred Shepherd of Charlotte, Emaline

Misses Ellen Ramsey, Florine Collett,

be glad of, if a fire in Watts dormitory could not be avoided. The fire and Gilmore of Huntersville and Miss Randolph |

following destruction was not anything like as bad as last year’s was, and | Venable of Charleston, W. Va., were week-
occurring during the day, a great amount of property and possibly some lives |
were saved, that would have been seriously endangered had the fire broken’
out at night. Also with only fifty men thrown out of rooms, these have
speedily been given other quarters, and a great majority of them have been
able to locate most of their possessions.

Under these circumstances, the Watts fire should not cause any deine |

Prof. in English II—Give me an example!
of a double negative, Mr. Currie.
Country Currie—I don’t know none.

The cheer leader and assistants were con- |

‘enough to*do what’s best for Davidson. |
Many of us aren’t exactly satisfied with the!

‘ dear,”

lend guests of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity. |

FIRE BUGS

Lee a <a
EXCHANGE
COLUMN

— om

The First Night
He—What would you do if I kissed you?
She—I’d slap your face!
He—But, I’d hold your hands.
She—Yes, that’s so. ~

The Second Night

He—What would you do if I kissed you?
She—Call papa.
He—Where is he?
She—Out of town.

The Third Night
}1e—What would you say if I kissed you?
She—Why, how could I say anything?

Who’s Ahead?

‘The Swede when asked by a college in-
quisitor if he was married.

“Ya, I married.” “~

“Whom did you marry?”

“T married a woman.”

“Fool! Did you ever hear of anyone who
did not marry a woman?”

“Ya, my sister. She marry a man.”

For hours they had been together on her
front porch.
down on the young and handsome couple who
sat strangely far apart. He sighed. She

|sighed. Finally: “I wish I had money,
she said, “I’d travel.”
Impulsively she slipped her hand into his
then rising swiftly she sped into the house.
Aghast, he looked at his hand—in his palm
lay seven cents,

Kissing a girl after getting her permission
is like getting a rain check after the eighth
inning.

——

Ife—At last, I can look you in the face.

She—Oh, George! I’m so glad you've re-
formed.

He—Reformed! It’s the new styles.

When Charlie found the lipstick, how did
he know it was yours?

Well, don’t you think he knows how it
tastes by this time.

English As She Is Spoke—Mark
Twain

+ Answers given by school children.

Biological—The gastric juice keeps the
bones from creaking.
| The salivary glands are used to salivate
the body.

The’ stomach is a pear-shaped bone, situ-
ated in the middle of the body.

We have an upper and a lower skin. The
lower skin moves all the time and the upper
skin moves when we do.

Physics—To find the weight of the earth
take the length of a degree on a meridan
and multiply by 6234 pounds.

The weight of the earth is found by com-
| paring a mass of known lead with that of
|a mass of unknown lead.
|
| second as the body will go plus the force of |
| gravity, and that’s equal to twice what the!
| body will go.

tion in the amount or quality of the work done by us this spring. All are| |spicuous by their absence Saturday night,| Miscellaneous — Homer’s writings are

comfortably housed once more, and studying facilities are much better than but the pep was there.
they were last spring, or in fact have been for some years except during the, ‘cheers, Gibson.

past fall term. Further, alf the teaching equipment is untouched and in as|
good condition as ever, and with the replacing of the books that were lost, |
every one should be able to go on with and improve the term’s work. ‘Thus
we can meet squarely the challenge in Doctor Martin’s talk Monday, and
show him that he is not mistaken in his view of the calibre of the student body. |

D.

PRAISE DUE STUDENTS

8 HE Davidson students have recently been called upon to do quite a lot
of rescue work of property and to strive to extinguish the fires that we
have had bring disaster to us here. In all cases their actions have brought
credit to them. Particularly in the Chambers fire last year, were the belong-
‘ings of boys saved by others when the owners theniselves were away at the
time.” Room after room was cleared out, sometimes at great risk of i injury to
those who were doing the heroic deeds. _

Then Sunday in the Watts fire, a great deal more unselfish service was
performed. This fire burned much more quickly than any of the others, and
the third floor was in flame before the alarm reached the students at church.
they arrived almost everything on the first two floors was saved. All
taken from the third and second floors was taken under dangerous
ss, and those who helped are due much credit. Those men, too,
led the roofs of Georgia and Rumple, and in an intense heat and

Good work on the;

Those enjoying the hospitality of the in-
|firmary during the past week were: Harry

S. Beall, R. H. Smith, R. M. McGirt, N. R.
|Cousar, J. P. Stevenson, and Kimbrough. |
| Of this number six are afficted with measles.

|

‘Three guesses as to why the stakes were}
placed in front of the gym.

Someone was seen walking across the |
campus the other day accompanied by a man,

and it wasn’t Bob! Watts ’smatter?

In the article headed “Prominent students
take definite steps” of last week’s issue, the
reporter failed to mention P. C. Henderson.
He feels terribly insulted. Skit McConnell
thinks he should have received honorable
mention also,

“Emilio Bosch journeyed over to, Flora
Macdonald this past week. If this news
reaches Cardenas, Cuba, it might cause
}trosble with his fair Senorita. | College,

Homer's essays, Virgil, the Aneid, and Para-
|dise Lost. Some people say that these poems |
were not written by Homer, but by another
| man of the same name.

Chaucer was succeeded by H. Wadsworth

years elapsed.

| Shapespeare translated the Scriptures and
|it was called St. James because he did it—!|

| Mark Twain.

Jim Mithoss had forgotton the exact lo-
|cation of the sawdust pile in his home town, |
Martinston, Ala., when his train passed
through at full speed just before the holi-
| days, Unfortunately Jim jumped off on the
wrong side and landed in the middle of a
pile of cord wood. As a result he is still)
nursing a few minor scratches and bruises.

D.

ADVERTISERS IN ANNUAL
TO BE LISTED WEEKLY
“Patronize our advertisers! Help those
who help us!” Below is a list of the) names
of concerns who have advertised in the 1923
ips and Cranks: :. Coca-Cola Co.; Cotrell
Leonard, who are furnishing caps and
gowns to the senior class; Eastman

The moon cast its tender gleam |

|
A body, will go’ just as far in the first

_W. F. Galloway, poet laureate of David-
/son and one of her star sprinters, made a
\record for himself at the scene of the recent
conflagration. Arriving at the scene of the
‘fire he busied himself craning his neck at
‘the mounting flames until he was startled
from his reverie by a cry, “Georgia’s on fire.”
| Seeing the reflection of the burning Watts
in the windows of his beloved Georgia, he
uttered a shriek of anguish and raced toward
the supposedly burning dormitory with long
kangaroo-like leaps. He had to go in every
room of the building before he could be
convinced that it really was not in the death
throes of a mighty conflagration. He was
so weak with excitement that he deigned to
accept the assistance of D. B. Walthall in
getting out to a seat beneath the trees.

Alas and alack, the soothing strains of
Speedy Carr's Victrola will no longer be
wafted down the corridors of the dormitories
while his erstwhile friends hold up their
hands in supplication, crying out, “How long,
how long?” No more will the tunes of
_ancient vintage assail the tired ears of his
mates, and no longer will the melodious
strains enhance the quiet atmosphere of the
campus—in short, this instrument of torture
lies in cold gray ashes and is no more. His
friends have already started a subscription
campaign to purchase him a French harp
with mufiler on it to recompense him for his
loss.

John D. Laws, the buxom lad from Mis-
sissippi, took full control of the wrecking
crew after the flames had reduced Watts to
a shell, and did valiant service ‘in battering
down the remaining walls with bricks
adroitly thrown. Bob McLeod and Red Mc-
Combs were his chief deputies.

Great fear smote the ears of those who
partake of the T'rough’s output when a sud-
den cry arose that this boarding house had
caught fire. for it is one thing to lose one’s
personal belongings, but still a greater one
to -be deprived of satisfaction for the inner
man,

One of the gallant fire laddies was seen to
emerge from the smoke-filled depths of the
upper corridor of Watts, pull off a hand-
kerchief from his mouth and nose, calmly
light a cigarette, take two or three long
draughts and plunge once more into the
smoke. Probably he was lead by a pillar of
fire.

It has not been discovered who threw an
| Underwood typewriter from the third story
and walked down the steps carrying two
sofa pillars in his arms. Neither has Frank
Wildman found any ashes that bear the least
resemblance of being those of a box of
cigars that he had in his room.

Izzy Thames was dumbfounded when he
found out that it was really Watts dormi-
tory and not Rumple that had burnt. He
| was aware that there was a fire of some de-
scription going on but he was so engrossed
|in conversation with two personages of the
| weaker sex that he did not discover which
aed had burnt until it was all over.

As usual when there is a real blaze at
Davidson the cries of “Fire, Fire,” did not
| arise any immediate interest among the col-
legians near the scene of the incineration.
| There is no means of discriminating between
a real fire and the advent of a person of the
| feminine sex upon the campus.

Blanco White has announced to the world
| that he considers himself a lucky lad as the
result of getting his straw “katy” from his

Price, D. G. Wilson, E. D. Brown, H. A.| Longfellow, an American writer. His writ- room before it became a roosting place for
Townsend, J. M. Carr, C.D. Patterson, M.|!ngs were chiefly prose and one hundred the cruel red flames,

He wore it proudly
| during the progress of the blaze.

Tubby Woolfolk dropped a blanket from
| the top of Georgia, and leaning over the edge
| of the roof requested someone to hand it to
him.

Henry Martyn White, who uttered fatali-
Wes i in the Chambers blaze was in the midst
| of things again. Nothing more serious than
| singed whiskers this time.

Life Insurance Co.; General Electric Co.;
David Malloy Co., who are furnishing covers
for the Annual; Presbyterian Standard
Printing Co., Charlotte, N. C.; Central
Hotel, Charlotte, N. C., and the Central
Cafeteria in Charlotte.

A drive for local advertising will start
next week taking in firms in Charlotte,
Statesville, Mooresville, Wins’ a
Greensboro. From now on a list 6:

lege, ... Poughkeepsie, N.Y.

Business
-é. Aemtable |

adverts wil be published weekly in The
Payidsoniap, .:

RRIAFTNSRT ME
