THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 25, 1923

7
| factor in the Wildcat defeat, that no betting

ATHLETIC NEWS

Yard Lines

proposition.

Cheer up, gang, Notre Dame beat Prince-

Parlor of Watts

Decision On Fresh Game
With Furman Is Reversed

Final Score of Furman-Davidson
Colt Game is 0-0

“The Furman-Davidson freshman football
game was a 0-0 tie. My decision on the
field—that the pass by Sapp of Davidson
from behind his own goal was not a safety—
was correct. My later reversal of this ruling
and awarding of the game to Furman by a
2-0 score was incorrect.” Such is the state-
ment received by Coach Younger from
Turner Bethel who refereed the game here
on October 6. The athletic authorities at
Furman have accepted Referee Bethel’s lat-
est ruling. :

The point at issue was a delicate one. Dav-
idson in the last minute of play called for a
punt from behind her own goal line. A bad
pass from center to Captain Sapp forced him
into a position that would have lead to a
safety had he not thrown the ball over the
goal line into the field of play. Coaches of
hoth teams were called on the field and rule-
hooks were in order. Referee Bethel ruled
that it was not a safety and penalized David-
son for illegally grounding the ball. David-
son then punted out and the game ended as
Furman was down on the forty yard line. It
was several hours later when the referee re-
versed his decision and awarded the game
to Furman.

This clears the record of the freshmen.
on

Chey have won two of the three games
played and have not been scored upon.

SPORTING |

GOODS |

4

Our Representative
on the Campus

|

The Commissary ||

Myers Hardware &
Sporting Goods Co.

| Forest game.

NICHES IN THE
WILDCAT HALL OF FAME

DAVID R. LAFAR
Football 3 Years
“Doc,” as he was familiarly known by his |

playmates at Davidson was the type of man |

Wildcat spirit, the kind that stood the test |
in the face of the fiercest sort of opposition.
This spirit, connected with his great football
qualities, and natural born instinct for lead- |
ership gained for him the captaincy of the
1921 team of the Davidson Wildcats. The |
team clashed up against some of the most |
formidable opponents in her history and’
made a good showing against all of them.
“Doc” was the agressive leader throughout
the season, scrapping hard in every game for |

ithe sake of the Red and Black. LaFar hailed

from the nearby metropolis of Gastonia nad
on his first appearance in Davidson gained
quite an impression among the devotees of the
gentle art of pig-skin chasing. He showed
up well in the scrubs that year and came back
in fine form the next year, earning a well
deserved “D" at the guard position. “Doc”
had an unusual ability to play the guard’s
part as he was well built, strong and fast. On
getting through the opposing defense he was
a past master and always collected his share
of tackle,

He was slated for all-state guard and was
stated by the various newspapers of the
state as “a driving sort of linesman that take
the heart out of the opposition.” He fea-
tured with his brilliant playing in the Vir-
ginia game, in the fall of ’20, also with the
Wofford Terrier. One paper said “LaFar
got the number of the Wofford Terriers
from the start and they soon found that they
could gain no ground over his part of the
line. Much mention was made of “LaFar’s
great game” in the 33 tie game with State in
the 1921 season.

Besides his football playing ability “Doc”
Was a popular man on the campus and was
liked by every one who knew him. He was |

|elected into the O. D, K. fraternity, and also | pe

was a member of the Kappa Sigma frater- |
nty. He now lives at Gastonia, his old.
home. He was seen in his natural habitat
last Saturday as a linesman in the Davidson
Wake Forest game.

|

PROGRAMS DISTRIBUTED BY.
THREE DAVIDSON STUDENTS

hundred programs, fresh |
press, were freely distributed |

Twenty-five
from the

| among the throng of football enthusiasts that | ) :
| crowded into Wearn Field at Charlotte Sat-| the family of Leo Caldwell of Winston-

| ° | Sale
urday afternoon for the Davidson-Wake | Salem.

The booklet consisting of |

who was imbued with the fightenest kind of §

By W. F. Galloway

Drive for State, Carolina and Trinity,
| Wildcats. Get the Tarheels and we can for-
get the rest.

Charlotte says that Davidson will not win
another game this year. Is that right, Wild-
cats ?

The bright-spot in the game was the fight
that line put up when they had their backs
against the wall.
The Charlotte News remarks that “the
Wildcat line is weak.” In five games only one
touchdown has been scored on it from scrim-
mage, That doesn’t sound so terribly weak.

Just to give an idea of the speed of the

| Baptist backfield, the Observer declares that

Allason scored the touchdown, the News
stakes its reputation on the fact that it was
Rackley, while “Duke” Walthall up and af-
firms it was Griffen.

As it happens this time, the News was
right.

The latest man to hang out his shingle as
prophet is Archibald Keels, Archie asserted
that the Baptists would be beaten 13-7.
Archie still maintains that he got half of it.
Tt wasn’t the “better half” however,

Baptist mects Presbyterian twice within a
week. By this time the Baptists +will have
won twice or the Sprinklers will have evened
the old thing up.

After all the principal trouble was that the
gang forgot to take those raincoats we were
telling them about.

O. K. Allison took a tour of the state

'last week, getting regards on the Carolina! Lexington, Va., V. M. I. vs. N. C. State.
,and State

Yells. “O. K.,” is a valuable

scout,

Another feautre of his trip was a fire-
injection in the neighborhood of Meredith,
ace, and St. Mary’s.

The Wildcat Stock took a sudden tread
in the opposite direction from Mohammed's
Seventh Heaven. It's time for a little rise
now.

Football has taken another victim, a man
who would have been a Davidson Wildcat.
Like a true Wildcat he died fighting, de-
fending his goal line. The Davidson stu-
dent body wishes to extend its sympathy to

The Charlotte News must have computa-

| sixteen well arranged pages, published and | ted the Wake Forest game by geometric pro-
18 E. Trade St. Charlotte, N. C. | “Spoofey” Hillhouse, “Bevo” Davis, and|@dding machine Chong McIlwaine arrives
'“Chong” McIlwaine, excited much interest |@t the conclusion that the gain from scrim-

/presented by the local trio of promoters, |gresssion, Our well known “dope-fiend” and /

ton 25-2, V. M. I. beat Virginia 35-0; and
William and Mary beat Trinity 21-0.

Speaking of the.latter we mustn’t fortget
‘the little Japancse Quarter, Matin, who put
the skids under the Trinity outfit.

FRIDAY

TOP COATS
SUITS
Tailored By FASHION PARK
RAINCOATS SHIRTS
KNICKERS HATS
“GOLD HOSE

Sarasa |
V. P. I. beat Maryland 16-7, Maryland |
beat Pennslyvania 3-0, which gives V. P. 1|
12 points on Penn, The Gobblers beat us 7|
which leaves us five better than Penn. }

TUXEDOS

|

That chapter is pretty good and so we}
won't stop to show that Wake Forest is 11 |
points better than Penn and that Carolina is |
natural champs, but it looks that way.

|
The only thing to go by is the dope, and |
it’s. safest.to go by that full-speed ahead. |

To continue juggling the figures, we beat |
P. C. 3-0. P. C. licked S. C. 7-3 and State |

downed the Gamecocks 7-0. Which gives us

an even break with State.
BUT beat Wake Forest 22, THE MAN STORE

arkers and only beat State 14, which places
markers and only bea ate p ASHEVILLE, N. C.

‘State 8 above the Baptists. The rest we |
leave to the imagination.

Carolina

|

Carolina’s Finest Young
Men’s Shop

SPEC McCONNELL

|

Fellows, sometimes we even have to think |
to write this column of dainty nothingness. |
Any time anybody has any figures, or dope |
on any team, or any bright ideas that could ,
he rightly associated with athletics, how |

jabout turning them in at 31 Ga. Thanx. |
eer | Representative
Next weeks menu shows: |
THURSDAY:
Columbia, S. C., Clemson vs, U. of S.C.
SATURDAY:

| Richmond, Va., Furman vs. Richmond.
Charlottesville, Va., Trinity vs. U. of Va.
Lynchburg, Va., V. P. I. vs. W. & L.

Central Cafeteria

‘‘On the Square”’

Tampa, Fla., Florida vs. Wake Forest.

| College Park, Md., Carolina vs. Maryland.
Elon, N. C., Elon vs. Emory and Henry.
' Clinton, S. C., Citadel vs. P’ C.

CAROLINA CONCERT CLUB Best Place to Eat

(Continued from page 1)
| which the tragedy and pathos portrayed by
Miss Kohn and Mr. Gibson shone clear.
“Stars of a Summer Night” was sung by a
male quartette as an encore.

Miss Nan Gordon then gave two violin
solos with Mrs. Baker as accompanist. These
| two solos were two Spanish dances by Mosz-
| kowski. Miss Gordon’s technique is won-
}derful and she thrilled all her hearers with
the matchless quality and volume of the
jtones which she drew from her instrument.
As an encore she played “Waters of Min-
netanka.”

The next number on the program was the
Quartette from “Rigoletto,” and was sung

Corner Trade and Tryon
Central Hotel Building

frre rrr rrr rrr rrr rrr rrr

IN FAVOR

meee oR NETE NR

J. M. HENDRIX & CO.
SHOES

Davidson Representative

J. P. HENDRIX
302 West

Samples now on
display

WE APPRECIATE
YOUR PATRONAGE

J. M. HENDRIX
AND COMPANY

--<+ {GREENSBORO

° "NORTH CAROLINA

and favorable comment among the crowd.

The program was made up of scores for |
the past games between the two schools, the
schedules for the two football teams for|
this season, pictures of the Davidson coaches
jand players and ads from Charlotte business |
| houses.
closed in the contents. It was the thirteenth
| annual game, the tenth to be played in Gives
| lotte. The game with Wake Forest has |
ranging from the 25th of September to the |
|30th day of November. In 1908 and 1919;
| the game was played at Davidson. In 1917)
ee : |

Similar programs for the two remaining
| games at Charlotte with N. C. State on Nov. |
| 3rd and Trinity on Turkey day will be dis- |
| tributed. Plans are being made to make
|them even more attractive from the outside
|und complete in the inside. Over 12,000 will
| be printed in all.

|HESTON IS IMPROVING AFTER
| SERIOUS ILLNESS

Bill Heston, popular member of the Senior
class, who has been critically ill for the past
week in the Charlotte Sanitorium, is well
on the way to recovery, to the gratification
of the entire student body. Bill was rushed
to Charlotte early Wednesday morning of
last week when Doctor MacConnel pro-
nounced his acute illness as appendicitis.

Bill is Editor-in-Chief’ of Quips and
Cranks, Peanut Parcher Editor of the Dav-
idsonian, a member of Sigma Upilson Lite-
rary fraternity, and a ‘recently elected mem-
ber of Omricon Delta Kappa.

IIt will be some time before he can re-
turn to his studies at Davidson, but it is
gratifying to know that his condition is im-
proved.

|
|

mage was only 235. All of which is well in
a way, but still bad enough.

The tabluation of the individual gain shows
a few new faces:
Shepherd, 30; Black, 16; Lindamood, 16;

Many interesting facts were dis-| Hendrix, 15; McComb, 13; Covington, 5;|was another of the stellar selections of the

Laird, 3; Faison, 1.

Chambers had another fire Friday night,

ler been played of the same day of the month, | this time by special order right after the pic: | Pirate Song.”

tures. O. K. Allison was chief fire-bug.

However he was guarded by a prominent

Wake Forest was defeated 72-7 in Greens- | ™member of the R. O. T. C., and escaped with | thread of fairylike melody running through

only slight burns.

You notice that we are making this col-
umn as cheerful as possible, which doesn’t

mean that we don’t feel it as bad as any-

| body. :

| re
|

i
|

he Baptists are visiting in the neighbor-
jhood again this afternoon. Let's drop out

}and back up that tennis team. Song,” from Carmen, was perhaps the most right.
| ———— impressive selection of the evening.
“Rube” Crafts asked us to announce that The closing number of the program was / Wehave awonderful

| by Misses Kohn and Smith and Messrs. Gib-
json and O'Grady. This was beautifully ren-
‘dered and well appreciated by the audience,
but in spite of long continued applause the
quartette would give no encore.

The male personnel of the club then sang
the “Soldiers’ Chorus” from Faust. This

club and was sung with splendid volume and
jharmony. As an encore they gave in a
jhumorous and = delightful manner “The

Miss Grace Kohn then sang three solos.
She first sang “The Pipes of Pan,” by Monc-
;ton. This little song, gay and with a thin

it,,was most beautifully rendered. Her next
selection was the delicately beautiful love
song, “Fanchonette,” by Clarke. She next
|sang “The Answer,” by Terry, and gave
“The Star” for an encore.

Mr. Will Neal next sang two songs, “The
Road Song,” and “Ah, Love But a Day,” by
Beech. These two selections were most ex-
'cellently rendered, but the encore, “Toreador

THIS FALL

Short,threebutton,
half-belted ulsters
are to be greatly
favored this fall.
You’ll see many
of them; but none
like the Society
Brand Hampton.

The difference is in
the cut. There’s an air
about this overcoat that
you will find nowhere
else; it’s smartly cut;
every detail—the roll of °
the lapel, the spacing of
the buttons, the placing
of the pockets-isexactly

the other class teams .were not going to! “The Hunter's Song,” by Weber. This was
shoot many baskets on the Seniors this year. | sung by the men of the chib and was excep-
It may be noticed in passing that Petrad | tionally beautiful.
Amdts is playing guard on the ’24 quint. Mrs. Coral Hayner Baker, the director of
—_— |the Club, was the accompanist in each of
Would you call a snake dance in the flick- |the selections given. Her exceptional musi-
ering flame of a bon-fire a fire-drill? For | cal ability made a beautiful and colorful
answer ask the noble leader of our fire bri- | background for each part of the program.

gade. He knows.
HONOR STORE OPENS

assortmentoffabricsfor
your selection. . Hea-
ther mixtures, colorful
overplaids—whatever
you like, we have it.

Tate-Brown Co.

Captain ‘Low-Pockets” is sending his B. :

CHARLOTTE

V. D. Flyers on road practice for the cross- | (Continued from page 1)

country run at Chapel Hill Turkey Day. | to keep this store here and to improve its BROWN & McCLAIN
Wake Forest is entering a team too. | usefulness, To the student body much more Local Agents

—. iat is a challenge to prove the effectiveness
It was a wise man who spoke about betting | of-the honor system in vogue at Davidson
in Chapel last week. That was a consoling | College.

