THE ANE Node APRIL.19, 1923.

00S
[ a ———

EH |
a
DAVIDSON WILL

ENTER TRIPLE
TRACK MEET

Another track meet for Davidson this
year, in addition to the four already sche-
duled! Four meets have been the limit
heretofore, but the record seems doomed to
be broken by a fifth meet this season.
Within the last few days Captain Gallaway
thas received a letter from Guilford College
proposing a triple meet, and no time is be-
ing lost to put the meet on ice.

The meet would be held on Sprunt Field,
Saturday, April 28th, and would give the
student body a chance to witness their cin-
der packers lined up against opposition, and
a chance to sce what they can do. Guilford
proposes that Elon, Guilford and Davidson
he lined up against each other, and says that
the object of the meet is to create greater
interest ,and enable the teams to get in
excellent shape for the State Meet at
Raleigh,

It is not certain that a triple meet will be
held, but at least a dual meet is assured.
Guilford proposed the plan, Davidson has
accepted, and Elon will probably do like-
wise. Even if Elon does not accept a meet
will be held between Guilford and Davidson.

No dope can be obtained on the track
teams of the Quakers and Christians. They
are trying to forge ahead in this phase of
athletics, and it is believed that this triple
meet will have its share in arousing interest
in track work at Guilford and Elon. David-
son should be able to win the meet, but a
“dark horse” might appear among her op-
ponents,

Last year three dual meets and the state
meet was the limit of the track schedule,
but with this added triple meet this year, it
indicates that track work is gradually com-
ing to the forefront on the Hill,,

0c Coc O

THE

Central Cafeteria

“On

the Square” :
Hatrenee' Next to v
United Cigar Store
on Trade and Tryon {

“EQUIPMENT for EVERY SPORT”

BASE BALL

SHOES GLOVES MITTS
: BATS

|

We sell the

Spalding .
Harry C. Lee
Wright & Ditson

RACKETS

Also the
Dayton Steel Racket

We Restring Rackets

Our Davidson Agency is
THE COMMISSARY

Myers Hardware and

Al LETICS —_

SSESEEEREEREEEUEEEESEEEEERRIHHAESSSEEEEUREIESIESUEEEEUE EESEEEaEe?

BLEACHER BULL

TSEEEEEEEEEEESEE SEETHER SESE

Weather prediction: April showers on
Saturday (Elon game). Fair and warmer,
Sunday and Monday; thundershowers Tues-
day in time for the V. P. I. game.

It's too bad that we couldn't
Baptists” last week,
work in fine style.

“Baptise the
but the rain did the

Alfonse and Gaston haven't got a thing ou
the way Covington and Alford bowed polite-
ly and urged each other to take that infield
fly in the State game. <A retiring disposi-
tion is useful sometimes, but not on the base-
ball diamond, and as a result the ball drop-
ped between them. However, no harm was
done for State couldn't score that inning.

Clemson seems to have a wonder pitcher
this year. Saturday he twirled a one hit
game against Furman to add to a couple of
three’ hit contests he had already turned in.
They say the ‘big leagues want to get him
and we don’t wondér. Of course he will
pitch against the Wildcats.

Remember October 20th, fellows, and
let's all be on deck to see Coach Buck's
warriors frock V. P. 1. properly this time.
The Gobblers got a good idea of Wildcat
fight and pep in football last fall. Let’s
give them a big enough dose ‘Tuesday to
last them through the summer.

One out of four isn’t such a promising
start on the diamond but we don't believe
that that is a true measure of the Wild-
cat's strength. We don’t want to offer any
alibis, but one run beat us with State, one
inning beat us with Carolina, and one pitcher
Shields by name, was just a little too good
and managed to beat us in the first Oak
Ridge game. Some people can’t see it that
way however. In an Associated Press ar-
ticle the teams in the state are rated as
follows:

Won Lost ‘Tied
Statennciyniny siiiiuecs a 8 0 1
MPONOM eres isk cat aeals asecersce’ 4 0 0
GUITESY ag San eae Seal 0
Wake Forest ............ 4 2 1
Carolinians euccecscus 2 1 0
Guilford ........ 3 3 0
Oak Ridge 1 1 0
Davidson 1 3 0
Rutherford 0 1 0
CataW UA acaniniinnienin 0 3 0
MOM ire niracnr iis 0 5 0

Some people have yet to learn that you
can’t count on comparative scores or sta-
tistics unless an even number of games have
been played and everybody has had a chance
at the weak teams. Lenoir is rated above
Carolina, but could they come anywhere near
beating them? State and Trinity deserve
their places, but about the rest, we wonder.

Red McComb forgot to take his bathing
suit to Raleigh and so he couldn’t enter the
two mile swim. It was a pity because he
was so anxious to get in on the distances.

Clemson put the skids under both North
Carolina and Georgia in track last week.
Clemson doubled North Carolina’s score,
and Carolina is admitted to have as good a
team as N. C. State, and N. C. State beat
Davidson 83-38, and Davidson meets Clemson
here Friday. ’Nuf sed.

D.

BASE BALL AVERAGES

ABRH BA POAB FA
Marrow --1 1 1 1,000 0 0 0 .000
Sorrels ..... 4.0 2 500 1 3 1 800
Boushee «+8 1 3 375 113 0 1.000
Vante .....15 3 5 333 3 0 0 1.000
Hunter ..... 3.0 t 333 0 4:1 ~= « .750
Alford, F ..16 4 5 .312 1 0 0 1.000
Crawford ..144 1 4 28551 1 0 1.000
Alford, S. ..14 0 3 214 79 4° .800
Richards ...12 0 2. .16711 8 O 1.000
Brice .......15 1 2 13325 3 3 904
Covington .16 2 2 125 18 1 900
Wells .......4 0 0 000 2 0 O 1.000
McKay ....10 1 0 .00 5 7 3 .800
TOTAL . - 132 14 31 .295108 56 13.842

D—

Iif you see a Davidson lad
Turning red about his face

H}When he takes bis watch and:looks at-it,

There’s a woman in the case.

y

=

WILDCAT RACQUETEERS |
FACE HARD PROGRAM

About'two weeks ago Coach Joe Whitener
chose ten of the most likely tennis aspirants,
which formed the Varsity squad. Now, af-/|
ter ten days of gruelling matches, the ten)
have been cut down to the necessary four-;
some which will, in all probability, comprise |
the Davidson tennis. team for the Spring of |
1923. The four lucky survivors are Hugh!
Bradley (capt), Harry Price (Manager) T.!
F. Staley, and Mac Beall. Some mighty |
strong opposition had to he overcome, how- |
ever, before Henry Morris, Fraser, and Bill
Murray were eliminated. The scoring of |
the\seven liighest men in matches won and |
lost are as follows:

Won Lost
Hugh Bradley ................ 6 0
VAN IStNS VIN casi ise ssinelis 5 1
lok Vy 37052 9 hy Rapa arerg praesrarivar ert tito Py 5 2
MMCU Beall iy itires cadets 4 2
BMEVIUETAV ON iirires ens 1 1
Br aserewinaaeniine eines 2 4

HUGH: MOMtis! WN ccs cei shin 2 Chi

Morning and afternoon now the team |

may be seen out on the courts practicing |

i!

———————— hf

On Your Way Through {
A Pair of Shoes

On your way through the shoes you are now
wearing, just notice this:

If they fit well at just three spots—the heel, the
instep and the toes—they will not look old for a
long time.

If they do not fit well there, they will break down

and look old in a short time.

Try Hendrix Shoes next time. See how well

they fit and how long they last.

J. M. HENDRIX & CO.

“THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES”’

GREENSBORO, WN. C.
SAMPLES DISPLAYED AT 302 WEST

woh

every stroke imaginahle, trying to ‘get in|

will be played at Davidson Friday after- |
noon, April 20th.

Clemson has the reputation of putting |
out a tennis team that make& a strong bid |
year. They are
cam make it interesting for Hugh Bradley.
Come out the 20th and see.

is encouraging, and give the Wildcats réa-
son .to believe that Captain Hugh Bradley,

singles. Harry Price, Mac Beall and T. F.
Staley have all shown that they are fully |
capable of stepping into Curtis Ormand’s
shoes as Hugh's partner in doubles,

The schedule of matches arranged for this |
Spring will give the Davidson racqueteers a
chance to show their superiority in three |
states. The following colleges will be |
played :

Clemson at Davidson,

V. P. I. at V. P. 1., April 24.

V. M. I. at V. Me T, April 25,

Union Theological Seminary at Richmond, |
April 26 (Pending). * |

Univ. of Va., at Charlottesville, April 27. |

State Meet, May 4 and 5, place undecided. |

D.
DAVIDSON SPEEDSTERS
TO TAKE ON CLEMSON

April 20

Davidson's cinder packers are slated to |
meet Clemson's crack track team next Fri- |
day, April 20th, on Sprunt Field, in the first |
home performance of the season. Handling
the South Carolina aggregation will be Dav-
idson’s big job and if Coach Grey's track-
men can outpoint the Tigers the decisive |
defeat administered by N. C. State last week
can in a manner be overlooked,

State’s decided victory over Davidson last
week put an awful crimp in the Red and |
Black aggregation’s 1923 prospects, but it!
is hoped that matters can be evened up next
Friday when they meet the Clemson Tigers
in the local back yard.

Clemson has made a great start in track |
this season, and if the good work is kept |
up, will be one of the strongest contenders
for first honors in this year’s S. I. A, A.
meet, In the first meet of the season the |
Tiger trackmen trounced the University of |
Georgia 76 to 36, and last week in a tri- |
angular meet with the University of Geor- |
gia and North Carolina the Clemsonians
scored just a little less than the combined
scores of both opponents.

Davidson's record stands, won one, lost
one. Davidson opened the season with a
close win over South Carolina and last week
in the worst weather in which a meet could

meets in which Davidson has entered this
season was held in windy, rainy weather,
and it is believed that, with the weather per-

had against Clemson in the coming meet.

and as Clemson has always furnished the
most formidable opposition, Davidson's
V. D. team will be glad of the chance to
give Clemson all they have bas the meet
comes” off.

Davidson's chief hopes lie in he field

the best form possible, for Clemson, who|CHANGES EFFECTED IN

for the South Carolina championship every | football manager, subsequent to the student
vspecially strong in the body presidency, has called for a general
singles, and they may have someone who |shake-up among the athletic managers for
Inext year.

All of the advance dope as to the strength |managership, while J.
of the various college teams in the state | position of manager RB ‘basketball.

will retain the state championship in the )ytudent body elections.

lent assistant managers and will handle the
| Wildcat
|year 1923-24.

| then?

| pher, they know how to retouch their nega-

‘and especially as they are operating on fam-

|this event, and the Red and Black weight
|men are not weak, With these men holding

| least.

be held was beaten by State 88 to 38. Both | i

mitting, the best efforts of the year will be|

The clash with Clemson is an annual affair | §

MANAGERIAL STAFF

NICHES IN THE WILDCAT}
HALL OF FAME

The resignation of A. M. Hillhouse as

Among the galaxy of football stars an
have honored the Davidson gridiron by their
playing ability and their all-round sports-
manship, none shines out more prominently
than Lawrence Orr Hammett of Anderson,
South Carolina, one of the best linesmen
that Davidson or any other college can boast
and who was chosen to pilot the destiny of
the hard fighting team of-1920. Coming to
Davidson from Clemson with a brilliant
record to his credit, “Gravy” Hammett soon
proved himself an indispensible cog in the
Wildcat collection by his line playing abil-
ity. A consistent player in the line and a
sure tackler, his broad shoulders and fleet
iimbs were the feature intaointaoniaoinnnu
limbs were the factors in many brilliant
victories for old Davidson.

Consistent line work, bordering on the
brilliant many times, and a never-say-die
spirit gave Hammett well merited honors
both at his Alma Mater and through all the
South Atlantic States. At the close of the
1920 season he was slated by ten leading
sports writers as the best tackle-in the. South
Atlantic States and without a peer as a
linesman in the entire South. Of the ideal
build for a football player, with 180 pounds
of brawn and brains, he‘more than held his
own in every game played, although he was
outweighed many times. Ardent fans of
the Red and Black rejoiced to hear, “Ham-
mett’s headgear is off—watch out!”, for they
knew that there was one place in the Dav-
idson line that would never be broken
through and there would be some real tack-
ling to watch. “Gravy” was down under
punts with the fleetest of the ends and
rarely ever failed to down the receiver in
his tracks. He was an adept at breaking
up aerial attacks and on the offense he could
plunge into the heaviest line and make a
hole for his back to slip through. The Da-
vidsonian of November 19, 1920 says, ““Ham-
mett broke through the lines of Carolina
time after time.

W. Z. Bradford is pit ve to the football
. Smith receives the

These changes are effected by the Ath-
letic Council and are in accordance with the
Bradford was run-
|ner-up to Hillhouse in the election for foot-
ball manager, so he falls in line for the
position upon Hillhouse’s resignation. In
the election for basketball manager, Smith
was runner-up to Bradford in the basket-
ball election, and so receives the position
left vacant, by the transfer of Bradford to
football manager.

Both of these men have served as excel-

finances in good shape for the

D.

A certain professor to Walthall and fair
one in swing on porch\during Junior Speak-
| ing—Mr. Walthall, why. don’t you go in by
|the fire?

Walthall—I’m by the fire now, doctor.

Professor—Why don’t you get closer

Ted Jones says that a great many girls
say “No” at first, but like the photogra-

tives.

events. Streibech and Gracey should ‘be
good for several points in this department

iliar grounds. McConnell, showing consid-
erable improvement in the mile, should fig-
ure strong in an interesting performance in

their own, and Captain Gallaway back into
form on the middle distances, Clemson
should receive considerable trouble at the

He played his own posi-
tion;of left tackle and every other position
. : - e ;

in the line, never too hard pressed to give

motto is always “Clean out Clemson.” It}3" encouraging word to every one of his

|has been several seasons since this thing has
been done, however, and Davidson 1923 B.

mates.”

(Continued on Page 7)

EESSEREESEEREESEESEEEEEESEREEEE URS ERIE EER EERIE EEE EEaEES Eas aes assesses tesa

Make good as salesmen because—

They have natural training.
They know how to think and act quickly.
They understand what it is to ‘‘fight through.”

