THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 1, 1923

7

ALUMNI NEWS

Dr. J. T. Wearn, '13, who has been in-
structor in the department of pharmacology
at the University of Pennsylvania, will re-
turn next year to Boston, where he will be
instructor in medicine at Harvard, and at-
tending physician to the Boston city hospital.

Dr. William H. Sprunt, 14, is located with
Clinic, at Rochester, Minn.

Dr. W. T. Thompson, ’15, professor of
theology in Union Seminary, was one of the
most brilliant speakers at the Laymen’s Con-
vention at Charlotte last week.

L. A. Chambliss, ’18, is in charge of the
new business department of the Wachovia
Bank and Trust Company at Winston-Salem.

B. W. Romefelt, ’21, is located at Ashe-
ville, as bond salesman for the Wachovia
Bank.

R. S. Clary, ex-’14, is a pilot in the regular
army air service, and is with the 94th Pur-
suit Squadron, Selfridge Field, Mt. Clemens,
Mich,

Walter P. Sprunt, ’04, is now the British
Vice Consul for the port of Wilmington, the
only British consular office in North Caro-
lina.

Shelby T. McCloy, '17, is now at Union
Seminary, Richmond, taking his second year
of work in theology, after having received
his degree of B. Litt. at Oxford University
last summer.

On February 24, Mr. I. H. Patterson, '18,
was married to Miss Flora Tice Clingenpell
at Martinsville, Va. ‘They will be at home
after March 4, at 526 Campbell Avenue,
Roanoke, Va.

D

VOLUNTEER CONFERENCE
HELD IN RALEIGH

On March 9-11 the Twelfth Annual North
Carolina Student Volunteer Conference will
be held at N. C. State College, Raleigh.
Three hundred delegates will attend.. These
delegates are made up of student volunteers
and non-volunteers from all the senior col-
leges of the State where there is a volunteer
band. Some of the most noted speakers of all
denominations will address the conference on
all phases of missionary activities trying to
bring to it a clearer vision of who and what
is needed on the mission fields,

The Davidson delegation of fifteen will
leave Davidson at 6:13 Friday morning, ar-
riving at Raleigh at 4:30 that afternoon. All
delegates will be met at the train where they
will register and be directed to homes. From
their homes they will go directly to the
college where the first meeting will be held
in the “Y” building at 5:30. The speakers’
list is not yet complete but Dr. Motte Mar-
tin, Dr. Claude M. Lee of China, Dr. Wade
C. Smith of Greensboro, and Doctor Aggry,
the internationally known negro speaker, a
native African, will speak. There will be
many noted women speakers of the Metho-
dist, Lutheran and Presbyterian boards.

Tom Sharpe, executive secretary of the
student volunteer movement will be at this
conference and something is bound to hap-
pen. He is a man worth traveling to New
York three times to talk with and all the
delegates are looking forward to being in
a conference with him.

The conference will close Sunday night,
the delegates leaving for their colleges early
Monday morning. Echo meetings will be
held in each college the following Sunday
when the delegates will try to pass on to
those who could not go the knowledge and
new enthusiasm they got at the conference.

T.

SIGMA UPSILON HOLDS
INTERESTING MEETING

On last Monday night at 9:30 p. m., the
Sigma Upsilon Literary Fraternity held its
regular meeting in the Beta hall. The study
of the play was continued and this subject
was taken as the principal work of the meet-
ing. Mr. Locke Currie delivered a very inter-
esting address and developed criticism on this
subject. Many points were brought out by
him, which were very helpful and will be of
great aid in further study and discussion of
the one-act play.

An original one-act play, dealing with
movements in Sotith Carolina during the
Revolutionary War and with Marion’s camp,
was delivered by W. J. Cooper. This was a
very interesting and fine work, given in three
scenes and vividly described historical scenes
as existed in South Carolina during Ameri-
ca’s fight for independence. The meeting

s

was a most profitable discussion of plays and
other literary topics.

It was decided: that the fraternity would
issue bids to new men within a short time.
After the remaining business had been fin-
ished, delightful refreshments: were served.

TD.

RADIO CONCERT GAINS
FAME FOR MINSTRELS

The Wildcat Minstrel Troupe gave a
splendid radio concert in Charlotte as a
grand finale of a successful tour of the
Carolinas. Messages were received from
distant cities praising the concert and re-
questing encores. The editor of The David-
sonian received the following letter from
an old Memphis alumnus:

“Dear Editor:

“Just a line to say that I am listening to
the concert being rendered by the Davidson
Wildcat Orchestra, and broadcasted by the
Andrews Studio at Charlotte, and you may
be sure it is sweet music to the ears of an
‘old’ gradaute to think of hearing music from
his alma mater’s orchestra in his own home,
700 miles from the college. I have called
Gilbert Morrison (preacher), of my class
(1916), and he too is enjoying the music via
radio and telephone. Tell the boys who sang
‘Mr. Gallagher and Mr. Shean,’ that they are
by far the best we’ve heard from any station,
and it is my opinion that they rival the
original pair whom I heard back East last
summer; also the man who sang, ‘Love
Sends a Little Gift of Roses,’ deserves men-
tion,

“If the orchestra plans giving another ‘air
program’ I should like to get advance notice
in order to get local Davidsonians together
for a radio party.

“Best wishes for Davidson.

“LEROY A. MULLER, '16.”
D.

PHI SOCIETY INSTALLS
BALDWIN AS PRESIDENT

The officers for the spring term in the
Phi Society were installed last Thursday
night.

In his inaugural address J. W. Baldwin,
the new president, after reciting some of the
past and present achievements of the Phi
Society, called upon the members to co-
operate with the officers in making this new
term the best in the history of the society.

11. M. Wells and A. B. Williford sac-
ceeded in convincing the judges of the right-
ness of their~position in holding that we
should have a State law compelling all ve-
hicles to come to a complete stop at all grade
crossings before crossing. ‘The negative
was upheld by A. B. Claytor and.W. P.
Brown.

The oration by S. Reed Sloan on “The
Law Must Prevail,” showed that the modern
Kk. K. K. had no foundation for their mode
of conduct, even if we concede the fact that
the old order had. P. J. Story spoke in
“Ts Demooracy Safe for the World?” This
was a well thought out criticism of present-
day tendencies in America dressed up in
“archicological” metaphors.

W. H. Fitts, in Current Events, gave an
unusual list, one which most people would
have overlooked. This made them all the
more interesting. The principal one was
about the two Persians who are attending
school at Carolina, of their trip over, and
of the first impressions they received in
America. «

D.

MUSICAL COMPANY TO
GIVE CONCERT HERE

Lovers of good music and popular songs
will have an opportunity next Monday night
to hear an organization which is noted for
its harmony and musical ability—the Caro-
lina Concert Company. The concert will be
given:in Shearer Hall at 8:00 o'clock. Fifty
cents admission will be charged, a percentage
of which will be given to the Annual Staff,
under whose auspices the concert is to be
given.

The Carolina Concert Company is com-
posed of some of the best musicians in the
State. This organization is directed by Miss
Coral Hayner Baker, who has studied both
in this country and abroad. Mr. Scott Gib-
son, of Charlotte, ‘is president and manager.
Mr. W. H. Neal, of the Charlotte National
Bank, is secretary and treasurer. The per-
sonnel of the organization is as follows:
Messrs. E. D. Michael, E. H. Bell, H. L.
Beatty, J. M. O’Grady, basses; Joe H. Bos-
tick, W. H. Neal, C. R. Willmann, baritones ;
E. W. Stokes, E. Dowd Boovy, Scott Gibson,
Philips Smith, tenors; Misses Nettle Allison
and Grace Kohn, sopranos; Miss Nan Gor-
don, who was at one time director of Keith’s
orchestra,.:violinist; Miss Baker is pianist.

In this concert, there will be violin, vocal,
and piano solos, male and female duets.
Also quartets and quintets, besides choruses
by the entire club. The program will consist
of well-known and popular airs.

PANDEINICS INTALL
SPRING TERM OFFICERS

Besides the regular program the Pandeinic
Literary Society was favored with an in-
augural address by John Grey, the incoming
president. He spoke very strongly against
the lax practice of many society members of
relying entirely on their “line” insetad of
preparation and thereby making the rest of
the society suffer. He also spoke of the
coming cries and responsibility of the society
in the spring intersociety events, urging
every member to do his full share in keeping
the society at the top.

The debate on the subject of stopping
automobiles at all graded crossings was fea-
tured by much good wit and was won by
Selzer and Sorrells, affirmative, against Ford
and Carr, negative.

The spring term officers installed at this
meeting were: John Grey, president; E. M.
Regen, vice-president; R..W. Oeland, secre-
tary; J. R. Maxwell, sergeant-at-arms; W.
A, Gamble, first critic; D. B. Walthall, sec-

ond critic.
D

EXPERIENCES RELATED
BY DOCTOR McCALLIE

At the union meeting of the Ministerial
Band and the Volunteer Band last Sunday
morning, Dr. 11. D. MeCallie, a missionary
from Korea, gave an interesting talk on the
people of Korea. In his talk he related some
striking and impressive experiences that have
faced him in Korea,

“Many ‘people try to turn the chureh into
a special center,” said Doctor McCallie, “and
are trying to draw people into the church
with worldly means here in America, especi-
ally in the North. ‘Teachers in some of our
Lbest colleges do not believe in Christ, but
look on Christianity as foolishness. What
is the difference between the gods of Korea,
which are made of wood, and the gods that
some of the most educated men today pie-
ture in their minds, since they do not accept

Christ? The people of Korea are a mass of
living like the field, in
degredation and poverty. God has provided
only one way in the world to save men and
that is through the preaching of the gospel.

“On these islands there are old women
who have never seen but a few white men,
and whose minds are practically gone. ‘They
could not answer the questions that were
asked them but they could say, ‘I don’t know
what you are asking me, but I do love Christ
and believe in him.’ . And yet women like this
who are absolutely ignorant can offer up
some of the most wonderful prayers, show-
ing that God will give us power to pray if
we only try. The gospel is a thing that is
suited for rich and poor, educated and un-
educated. The gospel of Christ is the only
thing that can lift up people who are down
among the dregs and place them on their
feet. The power of God is transforming the
people in Korea, and they are changing their
customs, laws and religion, ‘The people are
cager to hear of Christ.”

people heasts of

ad
DR. McCALLIE SPEAKS
AT Y. M. C. A. SERVICES

Despite the confusion on the hill caused
by the burning of Watts dormitory, a repre-
sentative crowd attended the Y. M. C._A.
vesper service Sunday evening, at which
meeting Dr. H. D. McCallie, a missionary
to Korea, gave an inspirational and uplifting
sermon bearing on the work in that nation.
Doctor McCallie has served as a missionary
of the gospel in that country for fifteen
years, during which time great progress has
been seen in bringing Korea to Christ.

In his opening remarks Dr. McCallie re-
ferred to his childhood days, and to his
Godly parents who prayed that he might be
used of God for forwarding His kingdom
on earth. He told of his college life at the
University of Virginia, during which time
he was drifting about with no purpose in
view for his life. One evening while roam-
ing over the campus of that great university
he went into a meeting of the Y. M. C. A,,
and while there he heard Doctor Morrison,
a great missionary to Africa. Doctor Mor-
rison asked the question, “What are you do-
ing with your life?” This question started
Mr. McCallie to thinking and finally he made
the great decision to go as a foreign mis-
sionary to the Orient.

The speaker told of the joy which his de-
cision brought to his mother and father, be-
sides being the first great joy of his own
life.

“The truest, the greatest happiness,” said
Doctor McCallie, “comes through service to
God and man. There is a_ superficial,
temporary satisfaction in immoral and de-
grading pleasures, but these only bring eter-
nal suffering to men’s souls. When a man
is in the service of God and his fellowmen
he is happy because he is following the foot-
steps of Jesus Christ, who came not to be
ministered unto, but to minister. The truly

great are those who do service for God and
man. .

“I was at the bedside of a dying Korean,”
said the speaker, “who in his later life had
found God.” When asked if he was afraid
to die, the Korean replied: “No, I am not
afraid to die, for I have found the Savior,
but I only regret that I did not find him
sooner, so that I might have spent my life
in bringing Him to others.”

Dr. McCallie spoke of Edison and other
men who have lived lives of service, as being
greater than Napoleon and other great mili-
tary leaders whose ambition and aim in life
was the killing of their fellowmen. He
spoke of the growth of education in Korea,
which goes hand in hand ‘with the growth
of Christianity. He cited examples of men
and women, both learned and ignorant, who
have been brought together through the in-
fluence of the gospel, and of the loss of old
superstitions through the teachings of the
Christian schools’

“The greatest thrill of life comes in sav-
ing life—both the temporal life and the
life of the soul throughout eternity.
Wouldn't you have been happy if you could
have saved a life today, the life of a friend?
Then how much more pleasure is it to save
the soul of a brother either in America or in
far away Korea?”

Here the speaker referred to the wife of
Doctor Chai, a Davidson student and native
of Korea, who, he said, is a fine Christian
woman helping to win her countrymen to
Christ.

“When one is in the service of God, there
is the feeling of getting somewhere, which
brings true satisfaction, ‘There is the satis-
faction that comes through fighting a good
light, of helping to get others to Ileaven,
and of standing before God to receive the
plaudit, “Well donel!’”

Dunbar Ogden was the leader of the eve-
ning, while Bob McLeod led the singing.
Harold) Moss and Wallace Moore led in
prayer during the meeting.

Following the closing song, Doctor Mc-
Callie pronouced the benediction first in Ko-
rean and then in English.

————-D

BASEBALL CANDIDATES
WORKING HARD ALREADY

Once more Sprunt Id is the camping
ground of a Wildcat baseball team. The
team took the field this week under the lead-
ership of Captain Pat Crawford. With
Buck Currie and Dutch Hengeveld handling
the coaching iend of the nine, the outlook is
good for another winning team this year.
Prospects for batteries are unusually good;
hesides the letter pitchers—Sorrells, Boushee
and Hunter—there are fifteen other hopefuls,
mostly freshmen. Of these Alexander,
Potts, McLaughlin, Alford, Johnson, Earn-
hardt, Barron and Wells show up very well.
On the receiving end, Brice, utility catcher
and outfielder from last year’s team has
reported and is going strong. Other men
out for catching jobs are McDonald, Hend-
ricks, Black, Hunter and Hovis.

Pat Crawford, all-State man for two
years, is the nucleus around which the infield
must be built. This means that a great deal
of the material for the inner garden will be
chosen from the freshman class. Ted Cov-
ington and Nicky McKay both showed up
well in class and scrub games last year and
should secure a place on the team this year.
Very little dope has been secured on the
outfield candidates, but with Brice, Morrow,
Richards and Hasty back, a first class out-
field should be formed with little trouble.
Some good men from the freshman class
have reported for practice and are going
strong.

The five letter men who are back are Sor-
tells, Hunter and Boushee, pitchers, Captain
Pat Crawford, first base, and Brice, utility
outtielder and catcher, Red McPherson,
pitcher, will probably not be. able to per-
form this season, as he recently underwent
an operation for appendicitis.

The trips this year are unusually good.
There is a trip through Virginia, the first
in four years, two trips through North Caro-
lina and one through South Carolina. Both
coaches and men seem very optimistic over
the prospects of this year’s team.

HEADQUARTERS

All New
DANGE RECORDS

Pianos and Players

Gibson Guitars and Mandolins

SHEET MUSIG

“EVERYTHING MUSICAL"

ANDREWS
MUSIC STORE

211-213 N. TRYON ST.

NONE TOO SMALL

R. A, DUNN, President
D. H, ANDERSON, Vice-President
Cc. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President

We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size

The Commercial National Bank

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

MEY, Cashier
ART, Assistant Cashier
EETERS, Assistant Cashier

T. M
V. D)

S.}

A.

CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC., OVER $1,000,000.00

|
|
|
|

Fire insurance is considered essential to
the .conduct of business but many men of
affairs overlook insuring that which is behind
all business, their health.

McAlister Carson, Manager (’13)
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO., Charlotte, N. C:

