:

6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 20, 1923

Pandenics Win Junior- METROPHILIAN

(Charlotte Fire Causes

Senior Debate Finals

A. P. Hudgins and Lee McLean
Chosen as Medalists

By winning the finals of the Junior-Senior
debate from the Philanthropic Society, De-
cember 13th, the Pandeinic Society continues

- to hold an unbroken record,of victories in
the inter-society debates. Since the organi-
zation of the society in the spring of 1922

The Metrophilian Society met Tuesday
night in Phi Hall. The regular program was |

Loss of Sleep to Students.

dispensed with and a declamation contest z P |

held, Many Davidson Boys Catch Rides to
There were six contestants, each of whom | Queen City to Watch Blaze— |

delivered a well-prepared declamation. The | Terror Stalks Rampant on

| declaimers were: E. T. Pullen, his subject | Campus :

ing “ ld’s Greatest Battlefield ;” R. | ; ;
Bak ora ee eee ie Violin ” L. D.| Awakened from their Christmas dreams by

| Wharton, “The Tomb of Napoleon;” D. H, | the harsh clanging of the Mooresville fire
epaneney “Scipio's Address to His “Artay 5" |trucks as they thundered down the Davidson

lj. L. McDaniel, “The Home in the Govern- | College ene the ig ties with ae
| ” McIntosh, “Citizenship.” | sweet accord rushed out on the campus, Sun- |
aie cgi ato 7 day night, rubbing their eyes at the sound of

| report-will-probably- be given atthe first
meeting after Christmas. The class will
then have a dierent type of meeting than
those of heretofore.

Town News

Captain and Mrs. Hearn are receiving
congratulations - on the birth of a
daughter, Jean Elizabeth, born last Sat-
urday.

The following town girls have arrived

Mrs; W.-F. Hall,-of—Stateville, spent
the week-end with Mrs. C. M. Richards.

Professor Fleagle made an interesting
talk at prayer meeting last Wednesday
evening.

“Nearly everybody is stuck up about
something. Some people are even proud
they aren’t proud.”—Billy Sunday.

°

“The man who lives for himself alone

the Pandeinics have won the Junior-Senior 7
«| The judges were G. M. Morrow, W. H. |
oe as Rear ane successive | Matheson, and A. M. McBryde. They cast |
: 'their ballots in favor of E, T. Pullen, first |
die Guety Was) Kesolven: 1has. Congress place; R. B. Parker, second place, and L. D.
at its coming session should enact legislation | Wharton third place. The vote of the judges
to relieve the wheat growers of the United was unanitnous in all three selections.
States by guarantecing them a price suffi-,

cient to net at least ten per cent over the cost

PANDEINIC

of wheat as estimated by government sta-
tistics.

L. B. Gibbs, D. B. Walthall and A. P.
Hudgins composed the winning team, debat-
ing on the negative side of the question. R.
H. Brown, Lee McLean and J. E. Holshouser
upheld the affirmative side of the question.

A. P. Hudgins was the medalist for the
winning team, and will receive the Junior-
Senior debater’s medal of the Pandeinic So-
ciety. Lee McLean receives the Phi Society
medal.

Dr. T. L. Lingle and Professors W. W.
Wood and F. K. Fleagle acter as judges.

BE IN OPERATION SOON

The town of Davidson is to be con-
gratulated on its newly completed and
up-to-date water system. This system

The program of the society was especially
good. The speakers were all well prepared
and their subjects were very appropriate. The
question for debate was: ‘Resolved, That
Governor Walton, of, Oklahoma, should be
acquitted.” A, P. Hudgins and R. H. Mc-
Ilwaine upheld the affirmative, and G. M.
Ford and J. E, Moore debated on the nega-
tive.

No declamation was given, as the speaker
was absent, An enlightening and interesting ,
oration, ““The Bonus Legislation,” was given |

rent Events,” by R. M. Carr.

into a business session.

Hy ||
|

Plans are being made to run the Reporters
Club on a much more business-like basis |
than that which has been used heretofore. |

is the very best that modern engineering The president, A. M. Hurd, expects to con- |
can secure and will provide an ample duct the meeting according to parliamentary

supply of water to the town at all times. law, and he wishes the co-operation of the |
A tank with a hundred thousand gal-| members in this plan. A secretary and
lons capacity has ben erected at the treasurer has been elected: who will handle
proper elevation to give sufficient pres- the funds and keep a record of the business
sure. The mains are eight inches in transacted. Some new members are being
diameter and will provide for the future taken into the club, and it is thought that
expansion of the town. Fire hydrants this organization is entering upon a_perioc
have been placed at intervals in order of greater activity.
that disastrous fires may be reduced to
a minimum. A 100,000 gallon capacity Few men on the campus realize the exten-
tank or reservoir has been placed at the sive Sunday School work being done by stu-
pumping station to insure a reserve sup- |dents. Every Sunday afternoon five teams
ply at all times. Deep wells have been! of men, numbering from two to six in each,
bored in the western part of town but! set out from the college to teach in Sunday

as yet have not given any water. The/| Schools.
engincers

3 however, are expecting al To Oak Grove, nearly six miles from here,
strike a strong vein soon. Two tur- goes S. E. Hagar, a special student;. to
bine pumps will pump the water | Brawleys, a station reached by going through

from the well to the resevoir and from) Mooresville, go Leighton Green and Joe
there to the tank. | McJunkin. The nearest is the Mill Chapel,

Mr. Van Sant, engineer of building! just across the tracks. Mr. Jackson has spent
and grounds, states that when the col-/a great deal of time among the people who
lege is relieved from furnishing the town | attend there. Marion Murray and Yeargan
with water the college will have an/are helping him this year.’
abundant reserve supply at all times.

TO THOSE WHO “GIVE” AT
CHRISTMAS

Some of the students reach Cornelius,
where the field is large, and as a result some-
what neglected. Tag Guiton, Wade Allison
‘and several others are carrying on the work
there in Mr. Klontz’s church.

This Christmas, which should bring |
happiness to every boy and girl, finds |
one in ten children menaced by a dis-
ease that may sentence them to years |
of sickness and may even rob them of |
their lives, |

In the schools and homes

HUDGIN RE-ELECTED HEAD OF
VOLUNTEER BAND

Because of «the efficient manner in which
of this | Perrin Hudgins has so ably led the band

town are many children doomed to bit- through the present term, last Wednesday he| SEATS ON THE GOLF COURSE,

terly unhappy years unless we can reach was chosen again to lead and direct the af-
them quickly, They are the uwunder-| fairs of the hand next term. Other officers

nourished children, whose thin, hollow-| chosen were Hugh Wells, vice-president; E.| disgusted caddy, and the bored spectator, |

chested bodies are fertile soil for the
most dread of all diseases—tuberculosis.

'D. Witherspoon, treasurer, and Benton
| Wharton remains as secretary. These men

“FIRE.” Some, thinking that all the dor-
mitories were on fire, began hauling out their
| personal belongings into the cold drizzling
\rain that was falling. Clad only in negligee
/and in entire deshabille, some started running
|up and down the campus with wild-eyed looks

}inquiring the whereabouts of the conflagra-

| tions.

Finding that the fire was reported as being

at Charlotte, a large portion of Davidson’s |
own rushed out on Main street seeking rides |

which would carry them to the burning city.
Rumors were rife everywhere that half of

Charlotte had burnt down and that the other |

half was scorching. A few of the boys
managed to slow down the cars that. were
burning the ozone on the Charlotte trail,

others chartered U-Pushems and piled in four

deep. Captain George and Major Hearn rep-
resented Uncle Sam and sped along at the

awful rate of 17 miles per, down the slick |
- by H.L. Currie. The last number was “Cur- and slippery road.

By 10 o'clock a’ major

After the | portion of the student body was there at the} Lovers’ Club last Friday afternoon. Mrs.
DAVIDSON WATER SYSTEM TO conclusion of the program the society went | scene of the blaze, which proved to be H. C.} Douglas lectured on “Christian and By-
| Long’s store, a hardware store and part of | zantine Architecture.”

Efird’s store. Several million rounds of am-
munition stored in the hardware store tried
its best to entertain the spectators by pop-
ping off at intervals.

Two or three Freshmen were seen on the
|streets of Charlotte with overcoats thrown

over their evening attire, while many were |

| without hats and coats. Fresh Bell thought
the pumping engines were sonie kind of cir-
cus caliopes and wanted to know why they
didn’t play. “Christy” Mathewson saluted

| .
Jone of the National, Guardsmen who was

| =
[A
1 | Patrolling the streets, from force of habit, | Io

and asked him if the automatic at his side
would shoot. Several of those who rushed
so furiously to Charlotte found vehicles go-
ing back to their beloved campus rather
scarce and were forced to camp all night at
the station or hotels. Others, who were
more adventurous essayed forth on the road
leading back to Davidson and tried their luck
hailing rides with varying success.

DOCTOR MacCONNELL
RETURNS FROM HUNT
IN SOUTH GEORGIA

Dr. J. W. MacConnell has just returned
from a hunting trip in southern Georgia. Gil-
;ton Head Island is a famous resort for
Nae and fishermen in the winter. Beside

the splendid fish which are caught here, many

| deer tempt the sportsman. Although Dr.
|MacConnell did not get a shot at any of the
big game, he brought back some delicious
| venison, The party with which he went kill-
lod 11 deer. He says that in spite of the fact
| that he did not get a deer, he had a fine time.
| Since the weather was balmy, he enjoyed the
| surf,

| For the’ benefit of the weary golfer, the
|three seats have been erected on the golf

| course, at the first, second and fifth tees.

|from college for the holidays: Misses
Katherine Porter, Kalista Hood, Gene
Martin, Sophie Richards, Nina Holt

will be the sole mourner at his own
funeral.”—Billy Sunday.

White, Nancy Grey and Lilly Helper. The
| Woman’s Auxiliary, of the Presbyterian
| Church, will entertain in the church par-
{lors on Christmas-eve in honor of the
| returned college girls and the Davidson

CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN

| students who remain here.
The Christmas tree for the Presbyte- Aa!
rian Sunday School will be given as
usual in Shearer Hall, late in the after-
noon, of the day before Christmas. On
the program committee are Misses
; Ellen Black, Dorothy Finlayson and
Sarah Lingle. The decorations are in
{charge of Mrs. Henderson’s class of
girls and Professor Gildieres class of
boys.

The ULSTER

To enjoy to the full the sting-
ing out-of-doors days this winter,
the warmth-without-weight o'
the new ulster is essential.
LUXENBERG tailoring a
unexampled low prices provi
these luxury coats at
the cost of an o:

$32.50 to $47.50

Mrs.’ Richards entertained the Book

Mrs. A, Currie, Dr. C. M. Richards and
| Mr. I. W. M. Hunter attended the Edu-

coat.

{cation Conference at Charlotte, last Py
week, Manufactured and sold exclusively by
NATLUXENBERG«&Bros.
“What scars have you to show.”—Billy New address
cay eee

|
|

| A

| Merry
—— Ohristmas
|

and a

|
|
|
|

F

rap"

Our stylememo. book will be sent free, on request

For High Class

PRINTING

of every description

“‘Jam-Up”’

SERVICE

see

ELKINS & PRICE

Davidsonian Office

Agents for

Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Quality Printers

ee MU

$42°°| SPECIAL

UWL

A few dollars from every one now can
prevent this calamity to childhood. You
hold in your hands the means of buying
health for children.

We are selling the Christmas Seals

|are ably prepared to lead the band, and with| This is indeed a step in the right direction. |
| them leading it will be able to do some fine | The puzzled devotees can now sit down and |
, work towards forwarding the interests of | figure out the most logical manner to send

LOOK

MEN HOLIDAY:

_ the band.

| Adeputation is to be sent to Charlotte to| popular with the “knickerbocker boys,” more |

the little ball onward. If these seats prove

that annually provide money to fight conduct the regular evening service in the|can be placed there on short notice. These

tuberculosis. With that money we can
buy the most precious gift in the world

whose day Christmas really is.

The Seals are one cent each. Buy all
you can,
mas Seal on a letter or package, you
are piling up health for little children.

Sincerely,
Louise Withers Sloan, Chairman.

FALL SOCIETY MEDAL
WINNERS

. The winners of the “Fall society medals” |

for the fall are: |
Junior-Senior Debate—Eumenean, A. N.
Moffett; Philanthropic, J. L, McLean; Pan-

deinic, A. P. Hudgins; Metrophilian, A. C.

resh-Soph Declamation—Eumenean, to
be held January 15th; Philanthropic, J. C.
Barrington; Pandeinic, H. L. Shaw; Metro-
philian, E. T. Pullen.

ee es

|
|

‘and Layton Green. Their singing should

Each time you put a Christ-| impress the young people as well as the old |

| TRAINING CLASS SENDS FIVE

| Other deputations are planned to be sent |

ones at this church.

out soon.

|
_ GLEE CLUB PARTY

| The Davidsonian reporter who covered
|last week’s Glee-Club assignment failed
to mention the delightful afternoon
party given at Stone Mountain by Miss
Ida Wells, of Atlanta. Miss. Wells,
sponsor of the Glee Club, was host to
the entire-Davidson organization.

Sa eer ne

Mrs. Fleable entertained a few friends
last Saturday afternoon, at tea, in honor
of Miss Jane Price, of Lewisburg, W. Va.,
who is a gu¢st of Mrs. W. W. Wood.

| Second Presbyterian Church. Harry Price | were inexpensive, and may lead to the con- |
;and Benton Wharton are to be the speakers, | struction of a grandstand. This | would be a|
health—as a holiday offering to children The quartette is also to go and it is composed | valuable substitute for the gallery now in|
|of Watt McCain, Tom Barr, Lee McLean| use, and wauld prove a drawing card for |

spectators to watch this ever-popular sport.

MEN ON DEPUTATIONS

er Hall. After the business of the class
was attended, some interesting reports

last Sunday. Five of the members went
to Mooresville. Doss and Bowie to-
gether ‘outlined what was done there.
They found a large promising society.
G. D. Rogers gave an interesting account
of the deputation that he and J. M. Carr
went on to Cooleemee. Both Garrison
and Ratchford enumerated some prac-
tical things for members to do in their

home societies during the holidays. A

The C. E, Training Class met on Sun- |
day afternoon, at 1:15 o’clock in Shear- |

were given about the deputations of:

: OFFER

Opportunity of a Life Time

Don’t spend your hard earned money foolishly and buy for
Father, Brother, Husband or Sweetheart, a cheap gold-filled
or plated watch.

Give him the best there is, it is the cheapest in the end, to be
remembered forever.

Limited quantity, genuine, solid 14 (fourteen) karat Gold
watches. Plain, engraved, thin or octagon shape. Elgin or
Waltham movements, fifteen jewelled, or Illinois twenty-one
jewelled movements. Guarantee enclosed with every watch.
Send Post Office order now, don’t delay, and receive watch
immediately sent to you, registered, fully insured, packed in
expensive, beautiful lined gift case. Act quick.

MMMM NOON UU

NUL

Wonderful 18 (eighteen) karat, solid-gold,
white or green wrist watches, latest designs,
octagon shape models, full jewelled. The very
thing that you have wanted, and admired on
others. Now in the reach of everybody. Get
one. while they last.

“EXCLUSIVE WATCH CO.

1482 Broadway, N. Y. C.
Telephone Bryant 10259

Attention
di

$2

