- country, is rightly regarded as one of

, ticles relating to the work-of the United

‘for students

12

A,

“4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY. 3, 1923

DAVIDSON LISTED WIT
~~“ COLLEGES IN LATEST R. 0. T. C. RATINGS

Letter Received From Corps and
Headquarters.

Many interesting and instructive ar-

States R. O. P. C. were given in a letter
recently receiver by Cadet Major Cooper
from the headquarters of the Fourth
Corps Area, at Atlanta. Facts and fig-
ures, that will be of interest to all Da-
vidson students who are members of the
unit, concerning the organization and the
rapid growth of this of the na-
tional defense corps were stated. This
letter also gave a brief history of the R.
O. T. C. and its development from a
-small organisation-during the period im-
mediately following the war, to the com-
manding position that it holds today in
the educational work of the nation.

After the close of the war the S. A. T.
C. was transformed into the Reserved
Officers Training Corps. Each year has
seen a marked growth in the membership
of the unit until today there are 227 in-
stitutions in the United States having an
enrollment of 108,999 students. Of this
number of units, there are 42 in essen-
tially military schools, 124 in colleges
and universities, and 61 in high schools
or equivalent institutions. By far the
larger percentage of members enrolled
are taking the Junior and Senior Basic
Courses. —

For the fiscal year 1923, Congress ap-
propriated $3,100,600, and for the fiscal
year 1924, $3,500,000. No new R. O. T.
funds are appropriated for its support.
C. was transformed into the Reserve
The Fourth Corps Area, which includes
Davidson, has an enrollment of 15,782 at
the present time and leads all the other
Corps Areas in having the greatest per-
centage of Basic Course students in the
Advanced Course. There are 128 offi-
cers, 6 warrant officers, and 116 enlisted
men on duty with the schools and col-
leges in the Fourth Corps Area. Con-
sidering the cost to the government in
operating the R. O. T. C., it is estimated
that the cost per student for the Senior
Divisions for a six month’s period is $70:
in essentially military
schools $26; and for students in High
Schools, $16.00. o

Davidson has lately been inspected by
commanding officers of the Fourth
Corps Area and has received favorable
mention. It will be placed on the list of
distinguished colleges which is composed
of Citadel, Clemson, Georgia Tech, Ala-
bama Tech, and Louisiana State.

D———__—

GAMMA CHAPTER OF PHI
BETA KAPPA BIDS 3 MEN

(Continued From Page 1)

Thames has been one of the outstand-
ing of the campus during the past three
years. His name has appeared upon the
Honor Roll several terms and in addi-
tion to holding several assistantships is
a member of the Gamma Sigma National
Chemical Fraternity.

Professor S. G. Stukes is a distinguish-
ed graduate of the college and is at pres-
ent located at Agnes Scott College, De-
catur Georgia. Most of the alumni are
taken in at the fall election.

The previously elected members of Phi
Beta Kappa from the present Senior
Class are R. F. Davidson, W. A. Gamble,
W. G. Guille, D, H. Ogden, and H. H.
Smith. These men have all been promi-
nent in scholarship especially, as well as
in other departments of college life.
Members of each senior class are elected
to Phi Beta Kappa twice a year. The
essential requirement, particularly with
the Gamma Chapter, is scholarship and
promise of future efficiency. Nét more
than one eighth of any class can be elect-
ed to membership. The first election
takes men from the upper eighth of the
elass, and the second from the upper
fourth, Membership in this fraternity,
nation wide in its scope, and which em-
braces -allthe leading scholars ofthe

the very highest honors which a man may
win in his college course.

D—___—

‘The grand old. game is really co to
its own again ‘if appearances aren petri
i and Davidson may be taken as the cri-
rion, . Baseball is coming into prominence
mach as the great Babe Ruth, so late

H DISTINGUISHED

HONOR FLAG GOES TO

“B” COMPANY

IN SPECTACULAR FIELD DAY CONTEST

GENERAL JOHN J. PERSHING
Congratulates Davidson on R. O. T. C.
Issue of The Davidsonian

THE MISSION OF THE R.0.T.C.
AS SEEN BY A RESERVE
OFFICER

(Prepared by the Office of the Chief of
Infantry.)
One of the facts established by the
history of all the ages, is that no nation
or confederation has ever survived con-
quest from the outside for any appre-
ciable period after the citizens of the na-
tion or confederation become incapable
of national defense. This was true even
in the earlier periods of history. when
wars were fought by a small minority of

_| the men of a nation in the fighting forces

and when the economic, industrial and
technical demands or organization for
successful warfare were comparatively
much lighter and simpler than are those
of modern warfare.

The integrity of the United States of
America as a sovereign state appears to
depend directly upon the effectiveness of
the national defense system worked out
and maintained by its citizens. This is
certainly historically true, unless a fun-
damental change in the history and pro-
gress of mankind has taken place. Today
there is no indication on the horizon of
world events of such a change. In fact,
the developments since the beginning of
the world war are in the most direct re-
buttal of the supposition that the pro-
gress of mankind has so changed the
course of history.

This is not a question of an offensive
system through which the people of the
United States could wage war upon other
countries in the territory of those other
countries, but entirely resolves itself
into the development of a system by
which the people of the United States
may defend their own boundaries against
any power, race or combination of powers
and races.

It was conclusively proven in the world
war that a successful defensive war, such
as was fought by France, requires uni-
versal organization and mobilization of
men, material and money. It was also
equally conclusively proven that-all the
officers, and as far as possible the soldiers

appalling and unnecessary loss, even in
defensive battle, must be trained in mod-
ern military technique,

of national defense that the officers of.
the Armies’to:be raised from the masses
of ‘people, whence, from the military

of any nation, to be effective, and to avoid|

I¢ is particélarly essential to a system |

spring, in the.crises when the national
defense is needed, should be trained in
the technique of modern warfare. Only
with such trained officers can: the citizen
armies hope to wage a successful de-
fensive warfare without the most appall-
ing loss of men and material. Unsuc-
cessful defensive warfare will include the
additional loss of the territory invaded,
which is always selected by the enemy
for its importance to the nation.

The greatest single problem in the fu-
ture national defensive system for the
United States is to supply these trained
officers, If the Officers Reserve Corps
functions it will answer this greatest of
the nation’s defensive problems.

The immediate organization and intel-
ligent training of the Officers Reserve
Corps is more vital at a first glance it
may seem, because the country is inclined
to rely for the defense of the future upon
the four million trained Veterans of the
World War. The country, however, loses
sight of the fact that these Veterans in a
few years will be physically incapable of
rendering front line service. The intelli-
gent and patriotic development of the
Officers Reserve Corps will prevent the
people of the United States, through
carelessness and lack of information,
from allowing the national system to be-
come entirely disorganized, as has hap-
pened after every past war in which our
country has participated.

The source of all power in the United
States is, by the Constitution, the people.
The members of the Reserve Corps and
the National Guard are of the people.
It is upon these men, representing every
element of the people, that the system of
national defense, upon which system the
survivorship of the nation so largely de-
pends, relies.

The National Guard is at present more
intelligently organized and more effec-
tively trained in every respect, and is a
stronger element of the national defense,
than ever before. In addition to a trained
commissioned personnel the National
Guard is developing trained non-commis-
rsioned officers-and other trained enlisted
personnel,

The Organized Reserve: is, however, al-
most entirely in the making, and its crea-
tion depends almost entirely upon the
Officers of the Organiaed Reserves. ;

The main souree of supply of the

serve Officers Training Corps of the edu-
cational institutions of the country. So,

standpoint, the untrained men will

in ie last analygie, the national, defen

pathic:
‘serve Officers of the future le the Beef

HONOR FLAG GOES TO “B” COM-
PANY IN SPECTACULAR FIELD
‘DAY CONTEST—D C HD— K
Competition Keen Between Four
Companies.

Company B won the Honor Flag for
the second consecutive year by defeating
her rival, Companies A, C and D, in
field day contests held April 25, on
Sprunt Field. Second place was won by
Company D, which has been Company
B’s closest contestant both years. A hot
fight was staged for third place,.in
which Company C finally won from A
by a narrow margin.

The contest was hard fought and was
very gratifying to the R. O. T. C. offi-
cials who were in charge. All partici-
pants displayed excellent spirit and
worked hard for their respective com-
panies.

It was a fine day for such an event,
thus aiding the participants to make
some exceptionally good records. Com-
pany A won both the close order drill
and the manual of arms events by a
large margin.

Another feature of the ‘meet was the
fast wall scaling of the squad repre-
senting Company D. This squad set up
a record at Davidson for this event by
scaling the Sprunt Field fence and run-
ning practically forty yards in thirty-
one seconds,

That the battalion is composed of
healthy students is shown by the fact
that one hundred and eleven men out
of one hundred and twenty-eight ran the
one hundred-yard dash in less than
thirteen seconds. Also out of the sixty-
four entrants in the broad jump, thirty-
seven qualified by jumping fifteen feet
or more. This is no poor record when
one considers the fact that all men wore
the regulation uniform, which greatly
impeded their progress.

The contest was a success in every
detail and both officials and students
deserve praise for the excellent records
made as well as for the spirit of sports-
manship displayed during the contest.

The final standings of the different
companies were as follows: Company
B, 145 points; Company D, 112 points;
Company C, 99 points; and Company A,
92 points.

sive system, in so far as it includes the
untrained manhood of the nation, which
part of the nation’s manhood must neces-
sarily go into combat, in the Organized
Reserve Divisions located throughout the
country, is dependent for its leadership
and its welfare on the Reserve Officers
Training Corps.

The responsibility thus placed upon
the members of the Reserve Officers’
Training Corps cannot be over empha-
sized, for it is only through their ef-
fective military training and their pa-
triotic zeal that the untrained men of
the nation can hope to be successfully
and intelligently led in war. The suc-
cessful and intelligent leadership of
trained officers in the fighting forces
of the United States will, in the future,
prevent the unnecessary loss of life,
that has always characterized new
American troops in battle.

So it seems that the responsibility
for the success of the defensive system
of the nation, as well as the oppor-
tunity to discourage outside attack upon
the nation, very greatly depends upon
the young men of the Reserve Officers
Training Corps.

Freckles
goes out

yeas to
the pete eees his f

President Student Body
A. M. Hillhouse
President Y. M. C. A.

W. T. Jones
President Athletic Association
E. S. Faison
Editor-in-Chief Davidsonian
L. D. Elkins
Editor-in-Chief Quips and Cranks
W. M. Heston
Editor-in-Chief Magazine

President Senior Class
R. R. Jones
President Junior Class
C. M. S. McIlwaine
President Sophomore Class
Tom Baker
Captain Football Team
E. S. Faison
Captain Basketball Team
C. M. Davis
Captain Baseball Team

Captain-Manager Track Team

Captain Wrestling Team
H. H. Lindamood
Manager Football Team
W. Z. Bradford
Manager Basketball Team
J. I. Smith
Manager Wrestling Team
J..M. Suser
President Dramatic Club
W. T. Jones
President Pandeinic Literary Society
Warren Cox
President Eumenean Literary Society

L. D. Elkins
President Metrophilian Literary Society

W. Z. Bradford
President Philanthropic Literary
Society
D

RED, WHITE AND BLUE

On the campus of Davidson today there
stands a lofty flag pole, thrusting its
steel shaft one hundred and fifty feet
above the grass carpeted ground beneatli.
This pole, dedicated to Davidson College
by the class of 1917, as it bade farewell
to these historic walls, was intended as a
standard carrier for the flag of our na-
tion. On it was supposed to be flaunted
that symbolic piece of bunting which
represents everything that our fair coun-
try and our own college stands for.

During the stress and excitement of
the days during the late world war, the
national flag reared itself above the
stately trees of the campus and emblaz-
oned its glorious'colors with the sunshine
of a clear sky. Now, since our patriotic
sentiment, enlivened by the fervor of a
mighty conflict has waned and lessened
its idealistic force, there no longer flies
our national colors as a sign to all the
world that Davidson is one hundred per
cent American. The lofty spire that was
destined for such a noble purpose is bare
as are the trees of icy winter. The
spring zephyrs that waft their exotic
breaths over its top no longer find a sym-
bol of our patriotism to greet them. The
banner that has weathered a thousand
storms and the great battles of our nation
no longer surmounts the buildings which
it holds under its protecting wing.

Should this be?
stand as a mute witness to a decadent
patriotism? Must a passing stranger
mark our institution as one that does not
observe the most common courtesy to-
wards the national government by such
a thing as a flag? Must our R. O. T. C.
unit, which is training our youth for phy-
sical and moral betterment, be forced to
perform their duties prescribed by the
national officials when they do not have
a flag to stand as a sign of their loyalty
to a country “whose just powers are de-
rived from a consent of the governed?”

We owe allegiance to our flag and to
the republic which it symbolizes. It

should- inspire a-feeling-in—us-that-will
cause us to have a clearer conception of
our government and the people behind it.
Is Davidson, of all places, going to show

if

Should our campus .

4

