THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 8, 1923

11

Commencement Orator, '01; Vice-President
Class, ’01-'02; Editor Magazine ’00-'02; Edi-

| For thy aid in this prophetic song.
|I would sing of the Class of 1902;

The gospel HODGES will preach to all who
will hear,

WILLIAMS BROWN McQUEEN—1898-
1899. He is at present Clerk of Court in

tor Quips and Cranks (3 years). Of their deeds in life as they journey | Nor cease from his labors till grim death| Raeford, N. C.
Mr. McConnell entered Davidson from through ; draw near. ‘ is ie
; R , =RT PHILLIP SADLER—1898-1899.
McConnellsville, S. C., with the class of | Of the blessing which they on man kind | . ROBER P SADLER—1898-1

1902. After graduation, he returned to Da-
vidson and was awarded his Master of Arts
Degree in 1906. He was also later given a
degree of M.D. from the University of
Maryland. During the late European War
he served as a Lieutenant-Colonel in the U.
S. A. Medical Corps, a similar position
which he had held on the Mexican Border
a few years before.- At present he is college
physician at Davidson College as well as
Professor of Biology there. He is recog-
nized as an Ear, Eye, Nose and Throat Spe-
cialist in that part of the state.

RUFUS REID MORRISON

A.B.; Phi; Beta Theta Pi; First Super-
visor, Second Critic Society ; Commencement
Marshal; Class Track; Class Baseball;
Class Football; Manager and Captain Class
Baseball; Varsity Baseball; Varsity Track;
Executive Committee Athletic Association
(4 years) ; Class Historian, '01-'02.

See special article for Captain Morrison's
achievements since leaving college.

DONALD WILLIAM RICHARDSON
“Donnie”

A.B.; Commencement President Society ;
Secretary, Reviewer, Treasurer of Society:
Debater’s Medal; Editor Magazine ®(2
years) ; Editor Quips and Cranks (2 years) ;
Editor-in-Chief Quips and Cranks, ‘02;
Class Monitor (3 years); Class Historian,
09-00; Class President, '00-01; Vice-Presi-
dent Student Body; Vice-President Y. M.
Cc, A.

Donald W.

Richardson graduated

his class. At Johns Hopkins he was award-

from.
Davidson in 1902 with the highest honors of |

| they will bestow,

| While here passing through this world be-
low.

| But while I have time and space,

| Ere that I further in this tale shall pace,

| Methinks it best according to reason

| To always do everything in season.

I'll tell you the condition of each of them, as
it seems to me,

Of what they will be and of what degree,

| And also in what array they will be in.

At a chemist then I will first begin.

| Bagley is his name, and he a worthy man,

Who from the time he first began

To go to college, loved chemistry,

Leisure, music, freedom, and courtesy.

He will bear himself well in every place,

In hope to stand in his lady's grace.

Great discoveries in his profession he will
make

And cause the atomic theory a fall to take.

His physical energy he will conserve,

Nor from the path of lpisure will he swerve.

When he his work at last shall lay down,

All the chemical world with his praises will
resound,

A politician will there be in this same place,

That hath a stern, haughty, deep-set face:

CLEGG is his name, by the vulgar called
SPapy:

His highest delight is 0 win in a scrap.

A Senator he'll be, always in the right,

Will give his opponents many a hard fight ;

Moore County will he stump for Free Silver
and Woman's Rights,

But always hie him home to his family at
nights.

ed the Sandscript Fellowship. He later went |

to Princeton and received a fellowship which
entitled him to a year’s study abroad. He
also received his M.A. degree from Prince-
ton, He went out as a Missionary to China
and was connected with the University of
Nanking. He is a noted orator and trans-
lator. Davidson College conferred on him
the D.D, degree.

He is now in China at Nanking, after hav-
ing charge of the boys’ school at Ching
Kiang.

JOHN SHUFORD ROWE
“John”

A.B.; Phi; Supervisor, Secretary, Presi-

dent of Society; Commencement Orator;

Captain Class Football; Varsity Football;

Class Track; Class President, '99-'00; Presi-
dent Student Body, ‘01-02; President Ath-
letic Association; Class Monitor; Editor
Quips and Cranks; Business Manager Quips
and Cranks,

Mr. Rowe entered Davidson from Conover,
N. C. Upon completion of his work here he
accepted a position as traveling salesman.
He is now connected with a business concern
in Raleigh, N. C., and holds a responsible
position,

ROY ROSEMAN
“Kid”
B.S.; Phi; Second Supervisor and Second

>

ball; Vice-President Class.

It has been impossible to locate any defi- |

nite information in regard to Mr. Roseman.
We learn that he is at present engaged in
farming, and the owner of a large ranch at
Torrington, Wyoming.

ARTHUR EARNEST SPENCER
“Florida” ;
A.B.; Glee Club; Mandolin and Guitar
Club; Leader Glee Club, '01-'02; Class Base-
ball; Track; Class Treasurer, ‘00-01; Edi-
tor Quips and Cranks, ’01-'02.

Mr. Spefteer, after taking his A.B. degree |
at Davidson, entered Union Seminary, and |

from there went into the active field of the
ministry. He is at present located in Gaines-
ville, Fla., where he is doing home mission
work for Suwanee Presbytery.

WALTER SCOTT WILHELM
“Willie”
A.B.; Class Secretary, ’01-'02.
Mr. Wilhelm also chose the ministry, grad-
uating from Union Theological Seminary.

Since entering the ministry Mr. Wilhelm has |

been pastor of Shearer Church, near David-
son, Bethesda, Troutman, Barium Springs,

Roxboro and South Lowell Churches. His'| And of tennis tournaments far many more, |
present address is Salisbury, N. C, R. D. But with his work will he always be behind, |

D. No. 1.

* * *

We quote the Class Prophecy below in or-
der to see how true the predictions were:

CLASS PROPHECY, 1902
O Muse, to lift aside the future’s veil,
Many have sought thy prophetigguid ;.
But to all-has never yet: been granted
The gift for which so many have panted,
Secrets which in the future lie deeply hidden,
Themselves reveal when only by thee they’re

bidden.
Since I Would then the future read,
I, oh Muse, with thee do plead

)

There will be two good men of great renown,

Both lowly parsons of a country town;

| Rich they will be in holy thought and work,

Nor Christian duty, however humble, ever

| will they shirk,

| Just and upright will they live before the
people's eyes ;

Full loath will they be to plead for their
slow-coming tithe,

|The wayward they will labor to keep within
the’ fold,

| And the weak to their own bosoms will they

| gently hold,

| Well will they an example give,

| By their own lives, of how men should live. |

| Two better parsons, I trow, Will never be,

| Famed for their goodness and piety.
|CORR and RICHARDSON are _ these
| ~ worthy champions of the cross

| Who will gather up the gold and fling away
the dross. ;

| Next I sing of one who from China hails;
| But ’tis right to say he never wears. the
Chinee-tails.

| He as a lawyer will settle down

In some far-away Chinese town;

| There he will much talking and more loafing
do,

|

wear the pigtail too, i

| DUBOSE is his name; he will be very learn-

ed in the law,

| And from so much pleading will be known

| as “Ching Lang Jaw.”

Bat, as all benefactors, his reward will be
slender.

An expounder of the law, discreet and wise,
| Who will have no‘ witness swearing lies;

| Of fees and cases will he have many a one,
=> great a collector will there nowhere be
| none, :

| effect,

| Ii Ly any means he is able to collect.
| He will settle down in his county-seat,
But remain as always, a tobacco beat;

On the sea of politics he will launch his little |

boat,

Which will not sail for want of the breezy |

vote.

An athlete there will be; an agile man;
Many opponents will fall before his valiant
| hand.

| Football battles has he fought by the score,

|'And when at last stern death shall draw the
line,

| And St. Peter shall shut forever the golden

| gate,

FITZPATRICK will

minutes late.

arrive just twenty

|
| There will be a preacher, a coleric man,

_-| Whase beard will be shorn as close as ever

it can. -
Full long are his legs, and very lean, :
Just like a staff; there’s no calf to be seen.
In all the country no one will be found
Whose speech with fair language will so
much abound.

| Conform to all the Chinese customs and
Critic Society; Class Baseball; Class Foot- | |

|
All wii! be fee simple to GOURDIN in

At present occupied with agriculture on

‘4 IN 4
Sapte ae toca telat ALL R. F. D. No. 5, Charlotte, N. C.

| Dealer in country produce and poultry.

| This worthy man his wits so well will use

| That there will be none from whom he will
not get his dues.

He will make his English sweet upon his

| tongue,

While aeaing: the mighty deeds which he The Class of 1902 Was knowi asthe litle

A snare for suckers he will ever keep set, | fever class,” for it was one of the smallest

And woe to the unwary who are caught | Classes matriculated at Davidson and it en-
wait dfs aids | tered college in 1898, the year of the typhoid

- fever epidemic in the college and the town of

I MORRISON will be a doctor in Shelby | Davidson. Due to this epidemic and be-
eatin % | cause the new system of artesian wells had

Who on an old gray horse will ride around, |" been completed, no effort Mies! made: to

With saddle-bags well filled with powders | S@0V85s for students, Only 28 Freshmen en-
and’ pHs | tered college and of this number 14 gradu-

To cure mankind of his many ills, jated.

Upward in his profession he will continue
to go,

And leave all competitors far below:

At duty’s call he will ever do his best,

And sink at last to a peaceful rest.

THE LITTLE FEVER CLASS OF
DAVIDSON COLLEGE

|
|
|
|

Five, out of this 14, entered the ministry,
and three entered the foreign field. Donald
Richardson, the valedictorian, is one of the
most brilliant men ever graduated from Da-
vidson, His scholastic record at Davidson
has never been equalled, and his brilliant
A farmer “Kid” ROSEMAN will be, work as a student at Hopkins and Princeton,
Living in peace and perfect charity. fand as a translator in China, show that he
His wife will he love with his whole heart, has maintained his college record. Palmer
Thought sometimes she will make him smart, | DuBose has also made a prominent place in
Many children will call him y3 the China Mission fields, following in’ the
If he doesn't work—sure he better had. foosteps of his illustrious father, and Robert
But soothed and comforted by his meer- Coit is equally prominent in the Korean field.

schauim pipe, S. EE. Hodges, W. S. Wilhelm and ALE.
He will live to an old age ripe. | Spencer are prominent in active pastorates in
: |the Southern Chureh. P. G. Gourdin is now
JOHN ROWE as a philosopher will soar | a capitalist at Kingstree, S. C.; W. R. Cleze

high; jis an attorney at Carthage, N. C.; Reid Mor-
Ever ready of things to tell the wherefore |

rison was Captain of a Battery of Field Ar-
tillery in France and fought his battery
through the St. Mihiel and Argonne battles
and is now at his ancestral home near
Mooresville. R. M. Fitzpatrick was Captain
of a Machine Gun Company in the A. E. F.,
was severely wounded, was ‘cited for gal-
lantry. He is still in the army on R. O. T.
C. duty at the University of Texas. J. S.
Rowe is a travelling salesman with Raleigh
as headquarters. Roy Roseman has been in
the gold fields of the Yukon and his present
address is unknown.

J. W. MacConnell is on the faculty of Da-
vidson College.

T. P. Bagley died two years after his
graduation, just when he was making rapid
success in business at Wilmington.

In looking over some of the old football
scores of the period of this class it is inter-
esting to notice that’ Davidson” won from
State, 17-0; from Georgia Tech, 38-6; Uni-
versity of Ga. 16-6; University of S. C.,
5-0; and lost to University of N. C., 6-0, and
to Clemson, 64-0. The latter score is inter-
esting for it marks the beginning of fake
plays and double and triple passes, and was
the first coaching that Heisman did at Clem-
son, The Clemson team had been coached
in long lateral passes and double and triple
passes and fakes until their opponents could-
n't follow the ball. Really, Heisman is the
father of modern football or the open game,
His wonderful led to
Georgia Teeh paying him a faney price and
he built up a great team there, Of course
when other teams learned the same style of
play the odds were no longer so much in
fivor af Davidson has
hosted Clemson since in a number of games
and will do so this week no doubt,

success at Clemson

Heisman’s teams,

No disputed point will he ever yield,

| But will his opponent always drive from the

| field,

| Through his long and eventful course

Bluff will be his greatest force. |

| To get married will be the ambition of his
life,

But all his days he is destined to spend with-
out a wife.

and the why, |
|
|

|

| WILHELM and SPENCER, two champions
for the right,

| Will ever be found in the midst of the fight.

To their high calling they will ever be true,

And much good for suffering humanity will
always do.

| Both groat@admirers of the culinary art;

| This phase of life will ever be dear to their

heart.

| Over their flocks they will ceaseless vigil

| keep,

a at last they are called to a peaceful sleep.

* * *

We are indebted to Dr. T. W. Lingle, who
lis editing the Alumni Catalogue, for the in-
| formation given below, concerning members
lof the Class of 1902 who did not graduate.-—
| The Editor.

JOHN LEON ADAMS-—Attended David- |
| son 1898-1900. At present he is in business |
| at Gastonia, N. C.
!LEAMON ANDERSON BENNETT—
{ 1898-1901. Latest information gives his
address as Highland, Fla. .
| CLARENCE BOALS—1899-1900. Lawyer, |

located in Memphis, Tenn,

'FREDERICK BROWN —1898-1899.
| business at Red Springs, N.C.

JOHN DICKSON BROWN—1898-1901.

In business at Salisbury, N. C.
| SAMUEL GASTON BURGIN—1898-1899,
In business, Lincolnton, N. C.

In

| JESSE STANLEY CLAYPOOLE—1898-
1899, Business, New Bern, N. C.

| WILLIAM BUTLER COCHRAN—1898- |.

1899. In banking business, Mt. Gilead,

N. G; H C

| JOSEPI| NEWLAND DOGGETT—1898-

1899, In business, Bristol, Tenn.

| JOHN ELMO GARNER—1898-1899. Prac-
ticing physician at Wauchula, Fla.

WALTER HALL GOODMAN—1899-1900.

Minister, Clarkton, N. C.

|JOSEPH EGGLESTON HANNAH --

1898-1900. Pastor, Presbyterian Church,

Newnan, Ga.

|JOHN DAVIDSON McLEAN—1898-1900.
At present he is engaged in agriculture,
and may be reached at R. F. D. No. 1, Be!-
mont, N. C.

HENRY EMBRY McMURRAY—1898-
1902. His present address is Kathleen,
Fla., where he is a physician. .

EDMUND McNEILL—1898-1899, -No in-
‘formation as to his location and occupation
is available.

LEIGHTON WILSON McPHERSON—
1898-1901. He is now located at Colum-
bus, Ga., where he is engaged in the whole-
sale grocery business. ~ ;

The part of the Wrigley Build-
ing erected two years ago has filled
such a want that the north section,
nearly double. the floor area of the
south section, is being added.

This north section, nearly com-
pleted, occupies the entire block,
immediately across North Water
Street, fronting on Michigan
Avenue and reaching to the height
of the main part of the first struc-
ture, with a connecting bridge.

The space in the new section is
already nearly all taken by high-
class firms in advance of the com-
pletion of the building.

ce ed by

Site tad

Ta

arr tr er eG

a Ee

Here’s Proof That Advertising Pays

Famous Wrigley Building in Chicage Being Boubled in Size

Here isa concrete (as well as a
steel and glass) proof of the say-
ing that “advertising pays.” In
these magnificent buildings Mr.
Wrigley has erected an impressive
testimonial to this great truth.
They loom large and beautiful.

*They typify the achievements of

the man-who built them. They
stand as a monitor over the activ-
ity of the Nation’s second.city —
inspiring—dominating—massive—
bearing unanswerable testimony
to the POWER OF ADVER-
TISING.
