GREET
WILDCATS
HOME

THEDAVI

SONIAN

Y. M. C. A.
VESPERS
6:15

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol.’ X

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 22, 1923

No. 17

WANDERING MINSTRELS RETURN

SULTAN OF SARAWAK SHAKES
OFF DUST OF THO CAROLINAS

Blackface Comedians Score Well
in Four Performances

on Road
A BRILLIANT REPERTOIRE

Professor Erwin’s Minstrelsy
Draws Worthy Com-
mendation

Last weck it was but a prediction that
the Wildcat Minstrels, who were then wan-
dering through the Carolinas, would be the
talk of the two States. ‘Today it is a fact.
The troupe returned Saturday night after
four days of continuous work, leaving in its
wake the decided opinion that it is one of
the best college performances of its kind ever
seen.

The itinerary of the Sultan of Sarawak in-
cluded Converse, G. W. C., Gastonia and
Charlotte. Leaving here early Wednesday,
they performed Wednesday night at Con-
verse, Thursday night at G. W. C., Friday
night at Gastonia, and Saturday night in
Charlotte. The trip was a success financi-
ally. Dr. E. J. Erwin, the power behind the
club, deserves a world of credit for his stren-
uous efforts in making the trip a success.
After the first performance at Converse he
whipped his stage hangs into shape, and the
erection and taking down of the scenery pro-
ceeded so well that all of it was brought
back to Davidson in excellent condition ex-
cept the Saxophonia, which went down to
the bottom on the last lap of her journey in
Charlotte.

The entire program was well received
everywhere, but judging from the number
and insistence of the encores received,
Messrs. Gallagher and Shean in the persons
of E. T. Woolfolk, the president of the
Dramatic Club, and Piggy Martin, were
awarded the laurels. As many as five or six
encores were received in one place, and Gal-
lagher and Shean simply had to quit with
the applause still ringing in their ears. As
end-men, Woolfolk and Martin practically
used their own initiative, often to the em-
barrassment of other members of the troupe.
Sometimes when the audience failed to catch
a joke, their black faces took on expressions
of deepest boredom. It was certainly not
their fault when such situations occurred.

O. J. Allison, as the Sultan, was fuxuri-
ously lazy in his Oriental guise. In singing
“Love Sends a Little Gift of Roses,” he
was encored again and again. The quartet,
with its various renditions, never failed to
gain applause. :

Aside from their regular program, every
member of the comedian group took delight
in pulling an unexpected joke on each other.
The program failed to mention that Gibson
was to leave Jones in the middle of the
stage while executing his bear-walk. Nor
was it intended, in the later performances,
that the seating facilities of the end-men
should collapse as often as they did.

At Converse a fairly good crowd greeted
the performance. That was the first stop,
and some difficulty was experienced in erect-
ing the scenery in short order.

In Greenville, at G. W. C., the Minstrel
played to the smallest audience, but on the
finest stage of the whole trip. Preceding the
performance the senior class entertained the
cast at dinner. It was here that most trouble
was encountered, for Woolfolk delayed the
show on account of the distance between the
McDavid apartments, where he spent most
of his time, and the college. It was there,

(Continued on Page 5)

Visits New York

Dr. W. J. Martin, president of the
College, returned last Friday from a
flying trip to New York, where he
looked after business pertaining to the
College. Doctor Martin reports a suc-
cessful trip in a business way, having
“laid the foundation” for something
worth while for Davidson. Further
information concerning the object of
his journey cannot be divluged at pres-
ent.

Doctor Martin says that his visit to
little old New York was a pleasant
one; that he left Davidson with the
intention of spending a week in the
city, but that the extremely cold
weather shortened his stay to two and
a half days. The Tar Heel State and
sunshine looked better to him than the
Northern metropolis and ice. No
doubt this explains why North Caro-
lina is so popular as a winter resort.
Judging from the weather of the past
few days, however, it is easy to think
New York's climate must have fol-
lowed Doctor Martin home.

NEW PLANS ARE WORKED OUT
FOR SOCIETY COMMENCEMENT

Four Organizations Will Have a
Common Program on
Society Night

NOVEL RECEPTION GIVEN

Medals, Cups and Emblems Will
Be Presented by An

Alumnus

The graduating exercises of the literary
societies will be held as a joint meeting on
the evening of ‘Tuesday, June 3, This change
was suggested by the chief marshal because
there are now four societies to hold their
commencements instead of two, and there are
only two halls in which to hold them, The
plan is to have these exercises following the
finals of the Junior Oratorical Contest in
Shearer Hall.

‘Tuseday night of Commencement is to be
known as Literary Society Night and the
whole evening will be given over to literary
society activities. Following the junior ora-
tions the various medals, cups, and debating
emblems won during the year will be pre-
sented by a prominent alumnus. After this
another prominent graduate will be vested
with the power of the societies and will pre-
sent the diplomas to the graduating members
of the four societies. A senior, chosen by
the senior members of the societies, will then
deliver the valedictory for all the socicties.
After this he will present to the respondent,
selected by the junior members of the so-
cieties, a gavel about which is to be entwined
the colors of the four organizations, After
receiving this gavel the respondent will make
a short speech of acceptance in behalf of the
remaining members of the literary societies.
Time will then be given for remarks by the
alumni, an interesting feature of all previous
commencements.

Following this the whole gathering will
adjourn to the campus where a novel type of
reception will be held for all. The chief
marshal refuses to divulge any features of
this reception except that all lights will be
turned off and the entire audience will re-
main in the mellow June moonlight. The

(Continued on Page 5)

STATESVILLE PASTOR LEADS.
SUNDAY EVENING SERVICES

Pat Crawford, Bob McLeod and
Wallace Purdy Assist in
Program

“A Good Soldier of Jesus Christ” was the
subject which Reverend Mack Long, of
Statesville, presented in a forceful manner
at the Y. M. C. A. service Sunday evening.

The scripture lesson for the evening was
2 Tim. 2:1-2. Pat Crawford presided at
the meeting and introduced the speaker, Bol
MeL.g6d led the singing, and Wallis Purdy
occupied his accustomed place at the piano.

“Joy in salvation,” said the speaker of the
evening, “is in direct proportion to our serv-
ice to God and man. The parable of the
talents is an example of the reward awaiting
the faithful steward. ‘To the one whose life
has never been filled with the love of God,
the slightest sacrifices are hard, but to the
one that has given his life to Him, all sacri-
fice becomes a pleasure, and all work is made
lighter,

“Rest in Christ alone, spiritual rest, can
still-and soothe the heart of man. It is for
this rest that the heart of man is calling. It
can be foynd only in. Him.” :

The story of Paul, who after his great
ministry on earth, was fled forth to be exe-
cuted, and who at the end of his life, looked
up with peace in his heart, was cited as an
example of the peace which comes to a life
well spent, while Felix, who had gained the
greatest of earthly powers, but was afraid
to die, was cited as an example of those
whose lives have been spent in sin, away
from God. Paul lived in glory and died in
glory, while Felix suffered agony for his acts
in life.

“The source of our strength is in the grace
of Christ; the grace that makes all suffering
endurable. Christ in His all-sufficiency, 1s
ready to change the base metal of fear in our
lives to a courage of steel. He offers the
sublime hope of the restful soul. It is a

(Continued on Page 8)
D.

What’s Doing

THURSDAY
Davidson College vs. Wofford, at
Spartanburg.
Wrestling
Chapel Hill.
Phi Society, 7 p. m.
Eu Society, 7 p. m.

FRIDAY
Davidson College vs. Furman, at
Greenville. :
Reporters Club, 10 a. m.
SATURDAY
Movies—Thomas Meighan in “Back
Home and Broke,” 7:15 p. m.
Davidson College vs. Guilford, at
Davidson.

team vs. Carolina, at

SUNDAY
Volunteer Band, 10 a‘ m.
Ministerial Band, 10 a. m.
Christian Endeavor Class, 1 p. m.
Sunday School, 3:30 p. m.

“Y” Service, 6:15 p. m.

MONDAY
Davidson College vs. Sumter “Y,”

at Davidson.

TUESDAY
Metrophilian Society, 6:45 p. m.
Pandeinic Society, 7:15 p. m.

WEDNESDAY
Bible Classes, 9 p. m.

[tunity to show their mettle.

BAPTISTS BITE DUST BEFORE ONSLAUGHT
OF COACH GREY'S REJUVENATED WILDCATS

Coach Hengeveld

Hand in hand with the announce-
ment by Doctor Douglas that Buek
Currie will the Presbyterian
artists of the diamond this year, comes
the information” that former Coach
Dutch Hengeveld will also aid him in
his work of rounding out a representa-
tive team of Wildeats for this year’s
nine,

coach

Dutch is an excellent player himself,
having pitched for the Little Rock
Travelers for the past few years, and
having also coached the Wildcats dur-
ing the last three seasons, and is there-
fore well-fitted to act as an advisory
coach in this year’s work.

he 1923 team will be built around
-itfive-letter-men nucleus, but with two
such experienced coaches. the Wild-
cats should be in the running during
the coming season. Candidates for
positions on the nine are anxiously
awaiting the first practice, which will
he given soon.

INDER PACKERS ANTICPATE
SUCESSFUL TRACK SEASON

Coach Grey Will Issue Call for
Men Interested in Spring

Sport
GOLF IS VERY PROMISING

Tennis Team Will Be Selected
With Hugh Bradley. as
Nucleus

A call for track men will be sounded by
Coach Grey just as soon as the weather will
permit, or in any case not later than Monday,
February 26. ‘Though one or two letter men
will be absent from the line-up‘this year, the
freshmen class shows an abundance of ma-
terial and by April 7, when the first meet is
planned with South Carolina at Columbia,
one of the best teams in the South should
be ready for the road.

Coach Grey will be able to give full time

to track this spring as Buck Currie will have
charge of baseball. This should run up
stock considerably, and results can be ex-
pected,
e Six letter men will be back and bidding
strong for berths on the team: Gracy and
Striebech, field events; Galloway, captain,
middle distances; Gentry, high jump and
javelin; Dick, middle distances and hurdles;
McComb, javelin throw. Calhoun and Regan
who showed up well in high jump and shot
put, respectively, will be out for the coveted
D. Ted Koenig, letter man last year in the
dashes will doubtless not be able to perform
on account of a recent appendicitis opera-
tion, and McBryde, who holds the Davidson
two-mile record, will not be out because of
injuries.

Captain-Manager Galloway has arranged
one of the most attractive schedules ever
seen at. Davidson, and the Red and Black
cinder packers will be given ample oppor-
Four meets are
completely arranged and the fifth is pending.
Five meets will tax the spirit of the team to
its limit and the ‘outcome of the season
should be favorable to the Wildcats.

(Continued on Page 5)

Poison Squad Offers Spectacular
Come Back After Fatal

Eastern Carolina Trip

Crawford Scores. High Sup-
ported by Fast Working
Crew

A little dose of hard luck doesn't stop the
Vighting Devils. After returning from a
four-day road trip on which they lost three
out of four starts, despite the fact that they
equalled or surpassed their opponents’ field
goals in every game, they returned home and
gave the Baptists from Wake Forest a 27-17
lacing after being forced to content them-
selves with the short end of the score four
nights before.

The Poison Squad, composed of Coach
Grey, Manager Adams, Captain Mauze,
Crawford, Laird, Staley, Davis, Beall,
Elkins and McConnell, opened up their trip
at Raleigh when the State squad nosed out
a 26-22 win over then. ‘The next night the
Wake Forest lads gained the long end of a
29-24 count when Stringfield caged 17 out
of the over-numerous fouls called on the
Wildeats. The Red and Black squad made
nin’ ficld goals to their opponents six, but
fouls proved the deciding factor.

In the next game the tide turned and the
Wildcats won their first victory in four years
on the Elon floor, 30-24. The last game of
the series was lost to Guilford 43-45 in a
hotly contested battle. The Frazier brothers
proved too much for the Wildcats and car-
ried off a two point victory.

Returning home for the last game before
the invasion of the Palmetto State the Fight-
ing Devils took revenge on the Baptists and
romped home with a decisive win.

SECOND WAKE FOREST GAME

The Wildcats started off with a rush when
Pat Crawford tossed in two beauties from
the floor and the Old Gold and Black quint
was never in the lead at any stage of the
game. By a clever bit of passwork the Bap-
tists then caged one but Staley came right
back and gave the Wildcats another brace of
points.

With the score standing 13-4, Captain
Warhoss was knocked out and Nappy took
his place at the pivot station. For the rest
of the half the guarding was close and the
captainless Wildcats tossed in three points,
while the Wake Forest cagers added two to
their total. When the whistle blew the
Wildcats had a comfortable lead of ten
points with only three field goals chalked
up against them.

Still captainless, the Wildcats started the
second half and Pagano tossed one in as the
period opened. The Poison Squad with Red
Laird leading the attack came back with four
points, but then the Old Gold and Black
staged a rally and crept up to within six
points of the Fighting Devils. At this point
Warhoss raced back into the game and the
Baptist cagers had but little chance of vic-
tory. Pat, who had tossed five perfect goals
through the hoop in the first period added
another, and with that brace the Wildcats
held their eight-point lead till the final sec-
ond, when the sphere left Mac Beall’s hands
before the whistle blew and as the crowd was
leaving hit the meshes for the final two
points, giving the Wildcats a 27-17 victory.

In the final period the affair developed
into a football game and Staley who had all
the fight of the Fighting Devils stored up in
him, and Sook Boggs were carried off of the
floor after a great exhibition of fight and
spirit. ;

(Continued on Page 6)

ASK A GIRL FOR. JUNIOR SPEAKING
