_ DAVIDSON—$90,000.00
IMPROVEMENT TOWN

Che Dabidanon Obserher

Today—1 Page

Vol. 1. No. 8

DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 1, 1923

FOUNDED 1922

R. O. T. C. NEWS

Instead of the competitive drill between
the companies of the R. O. T. C. unit, this
year a field meet is to be staged. Companies
A and B will be matched up in the prelimi-
naries, while Companies-C and D will also
be paired up. The finals will be between the
winners in these two contests.

The meet is to be held about April 11, and
from now until then the two-hour drills on
Wednesday will be given over to practice
for the event. No definite program is yet
available, but Captain Hearn intends to in-
clude in his events a 100-yard dash, wall-
skinning event, broad jump, etc. Following
the exercises, the honor flag is to be pre-
sented, and the whole topped off by a parade.

During the past days the rifle team has
been busy, and in the last match came out
with a score of 869, sixteen points above
University of Georgia. N. C. State won
out over fifteen others with a score of
947, :

Whenever the weather permits, sopho-
mores will begin practice on the landscape-
target firing. ‘To date, twelve sophomores
have signed up for the basic camp this sum-
men, and twelve for the advanced. It seems
that the unit will be in good shape next year
as to material for officers,

After the competition on April 11, the
remaining battalion formations will be given

VICTROLAS

New VICTOR
RECORDS Every
Two Weeks

EVERYTHING IN FURNITURE

People’s Home
Furnishing Co.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

.

Presson Motor
Company
Authorized Ford Dealer

LINCOLN

FORD
FORDSON

DAVIDSON, N.C.
a

over to marches and field maneuvers. Cadet
Major Cooper intends, during the Easter hol-
idays, to take a unit, if enough men wish
to go, to the Catawba river for a two- or
three-day stay.

TOWN NEWS

Mrs. Murray M. Grey is visiting her |

The last meeting of the Woman’s Auxili-
ary for the church year 1922-1923 was held
Thursday afternoon, at 4 o'clock, at the
church, The meeting in April, which is the
first meeting of the new church year, ‘will

The subject of the sermon at the Methodist |
| Church last Sunday night was “The Lost
Sheep.” A quartet from the College Y. M.
C. A. furnished special music.

be in charge of the new officers.

The target range in the gymnasium has
been completely overhauled. The targes are
thoroughly lighted both from, above and: Mrs, J. L. Currie has been confined to her |
below in such a way that there 18 no glare. house with sickness for a few days, but her
By means of screens, etc., all the light from | 166+ of friends wil be glad to know that she |

behind has been cut out and the DEW: at lis recovering rapidly, and will soon be once
rangement facilitates good shooting. | again’ among them. |

mother in Virginia.

The regular quarterly meeting was held
|last week at Fairview Church at Mount |
Mrs. Kenneth Foreman returned home Mourn. Rev. D. M. Litaker, presiding elder |

Friday from a two months visit to her) 4¢ Statesville district preached an excellent |
mother in Dallas, Tex. laeemnnt |

|

The practice of having appointed an O. D.|
daily has been resumed. For some time this |
fall there has been no O. D., but it has been,
found practicable to reinstate the office. |

D.

Mrs. Templeton, of Mooresville, and her |

| brother, who is with the United States Navy | CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
For the first time this year the armory|and has just returned from Siberia, were | IS ADDED TO LIBRARY |

has a complete supply of caps. It has been | suests at the home of Mrs. Bordy last week. | xt ; |
extremely hard to secure enough of them, | | Due to the untiring efforts of Miss Shaw |
but they are available at last, and the old) Mr. O. J. Thies visited in Reidsville last; and the. faculty, the library is now well
excuse for no hat has vanished. | Wednesday. stocked with all current literature. The only

and those who were fortunate enough to be
able to attend benefited greatly in the renewal
of inspiration and ideals received from it,
and felt themselves richly repaid for any
| effort put forth in order to attend.

’ BEST IN THE_LONG RUN

ANOTHER way Silvertowns

save: Their construction

Salisbury, Thursday night.

D. >

HIGH SCHOOL ATHLETICS

Under the coaching of Sorrells and Craw-
ford the Davidson Wildkittens have had a
very successful season in basket-ball. They
defeated Salisbury, Concord, Troutman and
Maiden, and were defeated by Mooresville,
the champion of this section, Charlotte, the
champion of their section, Concord’ and
Crossmore. They have one more game on
the schedule with Salisbury high school, at

Captain Joe McConnell has led the team
like a veteran, and to him belongs much of
the credit for the successful season.

After Thursday night’s game with Salis-
bury the Wildkittens start out for baseball.

Johnson is captain and the prospects are}

practically all of last year’s team will be}
back this year fighting harder than before.

On Wednesday morning football and
basket-ball letters are to be. given out at the
high school to those men who merited them.
Thirteen football and seven basket-ball let-
ters are to be distributed.

good for a successful season in this sport as of

The Wildkittens, like the Wildcats, are}
already planning for a most successful foot- |

Miss Mary Black left Monday for Green-
ville, S. C., for a visit with relatives,

Mrs. L.A. atherley delightfully enter- |
tained 4 few friends Saturday in honor of
her sister, Miss Velma Shambart, of Green- |
ville, N: C., and Miss Elsie Wilson, of Char-
lotte. These young ladies are spending the
week-end at Mrs. Weatherley’s. |

Mrs. Frasier Hood has returned from an),
enjoyable trip to New York. |

During the early part of the week Doctor |
Blank from Sanitorium, N. C., examined a/
number of school children and adults at)
both the white and colored schools for dis-'
eases of the chest.

Mrs. W. L. Porter is among the latest)
the influenza victims.

Davidsonians who attended the Laymen’s |
Convention in Charlotte last week say that
it looked like a meeting of the Davidson |
Alumni Association. Many of the present |
student body were there as well as their!
fathers and grandfathers, |
|
Book Club met last week |

The Thelemite

| s.cCrary.

recent addition is seventeen bound volumes
of The Congressional Reocrd, for the second

| session of the Sixty-seventh Congress.

These volumes were sent by Representative
A. L. Bulwinkle of the Ninth North Caro-
lina District. In them will be found all the
happenings of the past Congressional session.

D. |

‘STUDENTS BOOK LYCEUM |
COURSE FOR NEXT YEAR|

A splendid Lyceum course has been booked |
for next year. The course includes four
numbers, two coming before the Christmas |
holidays and two in January. The program
presents a male quartet, The Virginia Girls, |
a company presenting two splendid three-|
act plays, and a company of Irish singers, |
featuring Irish folk song. ‘The promoters
are J. E. Weldon, Bill Glenn and C, W.

D.

DAVIDSON HAS RESORTED
(Continued from Page 5)

cuted. Lastily, it would have been positively |

unsportsmanlike to burn a place like that, be-

cause that’s where they serve the eats. |

Oh, you fire-worshipers, if you have to

worship fire do it right. Get some system |

ball season next fall. Dick Grey will captain) at the home of Mrs. J. Wilson MacConnell.| to your methods. Do it like old Zoroaster |
the ’23 team and with the exception of Mc-| Mrs. W. J. Martin, with an old land grant | himself would have done it if he had been |

Connell and Bohannon the same men will be| document and several pictures, gave a very acquainted with modern methods. |

ains more miles from
: allen o¢ gasoline!

Henderson Auto Electric Company
| CAS, OILS, BATTERIES, TIRES, TUBES
j ACCESSORIES, EXPERT REPAI'

1 Davidson, N. C.

Goodrich
Gilvertown Corp Tins

i
|

ElectricShoeShop

LET US REPAIR YOUR
SHOES

We Double Their Life
Davidson, N. C.

SAUUANNAAAUOEATOAUOGAUOOUOGNGAEAUUONEGNOUNEAUEOAGOUOGOALUGEANAOGOEAAU OCHOA

back.

Athletics play an important part at Da-
vidson high school and it is from such a
school that the men at college are recruited. |

D.

GOLF TOURNAMENT WITH
'_ SALISBURY PENDING

Attention, ye golf hounds! Negotiations
are under way for a golf tournament with
the Salisbury Golf Club. The first match
will be played at Davidson. A definite an-
nouncement of the date will be made as soon
as possible.

All men who are interested aré requested
to hand in three signed scores to J. S. Bach-
man, or C. W. McCrary. ‘The five men
composing the team will be chosen from
these scores.

There is plenty of material at Davidson
and a good season is anticipated.

W. B. Barnette & Co.
All kinds of Fancy and Heavy Groceries

Davidson, N. C.

es aided a cs

ctri
Bs Ey

i"  Electrik Maid BREAD

PIES---CAKES---BUNS
“Taste the Difference’

k Maid Bake Shop

MOORESVILLE, N. C.

| flowers, showing the esteem in which the de-

interesting and instructive talk on Charles- |
ton, S. C. Tempting refreshments were,
served. |

Mrs. Hurd is on the sick list this week.

A number of Davidsonians enjoyed the |

dances of Miss Ruth St. Denis and Ted
Shawn at the Auditorium in Charlotte, Wed- |
nesday night. i

|

Mr. and Mrs. C. W. Champe have ued
to Atlanta where they will make their home. |

Miss, Margaret White of Mooresville, was |
the guest of Mrs. Wooten last Friday.

Miss Grace Goodrum’s charming guest for
the last week was Miss Emma White. |
|

Mr. Barton Freeland, of Crowley, La., and |
now a student at Clemson College, spent sev- |
eral days on the hill with his brother, P. B.|
Freeland, of the class of '25.

Mr. Sample Died Thursday

Hugh Berry Sample, 79 years old, died
at his home here at 9:45 o'clock, Thursday
night, of paralysis, with which he was
stricken Tuesday while working about his
yard. He was born near Hopewell Church,
September 28, 1943. He served with the
Confederate forces throughout the war be-
tween the States.

He is survived by his wife, who before her
marriage was Miss Harriet McCoy, and six
children: W. A. Sample, of Statesville;
M. M. Sample, of Charlotte; Mrs. J. R.
Caldwell; and Misses Lucy, Grace and Annie
Sample, of Davidson; one sister, Mrs. Sam
McElroy, of Hopewell, and one brother, J.
M. Sample, of Mooresville.

The funeral services were conducted from
the home Friday afternoon at 3:30 o'clock
by Dr. C. M. Richards.

Mr. Sample had only lived in Davidson
for about a year, yet he was here long
eonugh to endear himself to all. He was
laid to rest in the Davidson cemetery, and
the newly made mound was covered with

d was held.

If you can’t manage things any better than
you have been managing them, and still have
the yearning after fire-worship, change your |
tactics altogether. Turn from this old fire
and get some strange fire. Get some real
live fire and show it how zealous you are. |
Bring it here for junior speaking.
1D yee Sy

SUCCESSFUL CONVENTION
(Continued from Page 1)

detail with an eye for improvement in meth- |

ods and co-operation, |

Not a small feature of the cenvention was
the excellent selegtions rendered by the|
Columbia Seminary Quartette, whose visit to
the campus last year and their work while
here is yet remembered by every Davidson’
man. They were indeed an important link in
the chain of services rendered by those who

aided in the immediate work of the conven-
tion,

Considered from all angles, the convention
could hardly be called anything but a success,

Men’s U. S. Army Mun-
son-last Shoes at

$2.95

Sizes 5% to 12

Never again will you bé able to buy these shoes
at such a low price. We were lucky in finding a
manufacturer, who was overstocked with them, and |
needed ready cash, so we bought them at almost |
one-half of the regular price. This shoe is made |
over the U. S, Army Munson last, with extra heavy |

; ined chrome brown leather |
An ideal shoe for workmen, |
motor- |
day.

; HT
used throughout.
farmers, i Pp car and
men, who are obliged to be on their feet all

Send correct size. Pay Postman $2.95 on deliv-
ery, or send us a money order.

If you are not satisfied with these shoes after
you examine them, we will promptly refund your
money.

U. S. DISTRIBUTING & SALES
COMPANY

20-26 West 22nd St. NEW. YORK CITY, N. Y.

Spring Is
Here

Plant a Garden!

COME TO US FOR YOUR
EVERY NEED

Seeds:

Irish. Cobbler seed potatoes.
Fresh, stock of excellent quality
just received.

UDUAUNUEONLUNOSOAOUONSNSASU0008F0000890000000000000NFG2

Onion Sets. We have them.
Yellow Denver—none better for
this locality.

We have a complete stock of
FERRY’S well-known seeds.
Now is the time to plant lettuce,
peas and radish.

Implements:

Garden plows, . “PLANTER
JR.,” one-man power. An excel-
lent implement that will do the
work and at the same time afford
good exercise.

Hoes, rakes and weeders of
dependable quality.

The

M. H. Goodrum
& Co.

: SOUTH MAIN STREET
STO

HANOANAAHUNAHAAEPNNSUOOAOMAACOGEOOUAAUGOOOOOAAOUOGRAOOGAOCEVOGSOOALOOOSOOQGOCADUOOLOOSAUCOCOSONNACOSCCQ0QQNQ0C0000000 000000000. 100088000KUNUUETNEOLT
