4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 8, 1923

The DAVIDSONIAN

OPEN FORUM

NUT SUNDAES

.

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF 15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill’

Published Weekly by the Ste
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.:

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
. m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

dents of Davidson College.

Editor-in-Chiet

g. : f I |
D. INS.... irst Managing Editor |
W. M. 0. ..Second Managing Editor |
R. R. JONES... ssignment Editor
€ fF WILDMAN +7 Mle), Balter W.. Z, BRADFOR
Ls .M. % C0). PI SC ICIIIOLIC SS Exchange Editor ie
qi PRESS BUREAU
W. Z. BRADFORD...... eee eee eeee Manager W. F. GALLOWAY......- Assistant Manager
BARRINGTON, 7 C. MINTER A
Seay: J. M. McINTOSH, CLAUDE bien RATCHFORD, B. V. D
BUSINESS DEPARTMENT
W. J. COOPER........550- Business Manager ae Se
R. L. PRICE, J. H. DAVIS, G. E. WEEKS and W. G. GUILLE......-.+++++ Advertising Solicitors
JAMES McCUTCHEN......... Office Assistant E. J. BOSCH........+++0- - Advertising Copy
CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT
WATT MCcCAIN........ Circulation Manager J. A. THOMPSON....Asst. Circulation Mar.
REPORTERS’ CLUB
BROWN, W. P., Pres. McILWAINE, C. M. PRICE, R. L.
SMITH, 'R. H.,’Vice-Pres.  McIVER, D.D. SHARBE, W. H.
BROWN, C. V., Sec.-Treas, | MAUZE, G. W. WALTHALL, D. B
ALLISON, 0. j. MOFFENT, A._N. WHARTON, D. B.
Anat Row MAR gS
GALLOWAY, W. F. POMEROY, W. L. WILLIAMS, J. M
LAKE, J. A. PRICE, H. B.

Davidson students always hear Dr. Henry Louis Smith with the greatest
pleasure, and his talks to us never have failed to be most interesting, and
profitable. If anything, his literary address at the installation of Phi Beta
Kappa at Davidson, excelled even our_high expectations. The dramatic and
gripping, yet realistic pictures that he gave us of present day situations cannot
fail to.make a lasting impression upon our memories and our actions.

T).

LU

| stances.

* we didn’t have time.

Stop Making Excuses
The weakness of the majority of men today
lies in their ability to deceive themselves by
Many of us are slaves to circum-
We allow the smallest happenings
and the most trivial events to interfere with
our performance of duty. Excuse making is

excuses,

| among the worst of all bad habits. It grows

upon us with a certain deadliness and twines
in and out the very frame work of our char-
acters, weakening the purpose of our lives |

and decaying the very structure of our souls.

We have all fallen prey to the moss-backed ,
excuse of “didn’t have time.” How easy it
is to cover up our laziness or procrastination
with this old worn out, weak-kneed apology.
We all have the same amount of time. You
can always look around and see someone
who is doing a great deal more than we are
doing and still we have the face to say that
So it is with all ex-
cuses that we give to ourselves daily for the
neglect of our work or for our failure to do
that which we ought to do. Excuses are ‘an
admission of weakness.

Fellows don't allow yourselves to fall a
victim to this habit. Do your work as it
should be done and do it at the right time
or take your medicine like a man, Don't
whine around and admit that circumstances
has whipped you.

—PHILOSOPHOS.

Why Not?

Honor is \something in the make-up of
every man that\causes him to stand up for
principles related to his virtue. The insulted
man fights for it;\the successful business
man works deligently to prevent blemishes
from staining it.

Needless to say, the honor system is a
success and a blessing here at Davidson as
it is elsewhere where it is in force. It trains

| men for higher ideals, ideals which manifest

| themselves by gentfémanly conduet and be-

PHI BETA KAPPA

FTER years of patient and untiring effort on the part of a number of|
A of the faculty, Davidson was on March 1, the proud recipient of the)
charter for a chapter of the Phi’ Beta Kappa Society, the Gamma chapter of
North Carolina. Both in the public and private exercises of the installation, |
it was brought out clearly how fortanate we may consider ourselves at David-|
son College. Chapters of this society are nation-wide, but exist in only about |
twenty per cent of the colleges and universities in the United States, The)
granting of a chapter to any school, coming as it does only after a thorough |
investigation of every phase of the institution’s work, is a distinct honor. |

President Chase of the University of North Carolina very fittingly showed the |

place that scholarship should hold in our under-graduate college life, and the| ‘

rewards that come to such endeavor as seen in the eminent positions that
members of the Phi Beta Kappa Society hold at present.

T).

Ly

ELECTIONS COMING

A ABOUT this time every spring it becomes necessary for each member
of the student body to exercise his voting power in electing student body
officers, class officers, student councilmen, and filling positions of The David-
sonian, Athletic Associations and other similar organizations. Serious thought
is necessary to make a man realize what an opportunity and privilege he has,
and yet remember that a great responsibility is his in having these places filled.
Always, therefore, attempts of various kinds are made to bring these facts to
the attention of all.

An article has appeared in the Open Forum of The Davidsonian, pointing
out the value of brains, or ability to think straight, on the part of the men we|
elect. In a number of ways, it was clearly shown then, that the men we want |
to fill our offices are not simply the men who have gained popularity because |
of attainments that in no way fit them for places of influence in the student |
body. We want the men who during their three years here have always been |
known to stand for what is right, men who can be depended upon in difficult
situations and under trying circumstances. |

A number of men take the position at elections that their vote does not
count among so many; they are in a hurry probably to leave chapel, perhaps
they have no paper or pencils, and so often they leave an election without |
casting a vote for anyone at all. Of course, such an attitude as this should |
mever be allowed to take hold of a man., Everyone is just as much a part of, |
has just as much power, and should take just as much interest in the student |
body as anyone else should. Until we all do realize this clearly, and all try |
to cast our votes properly, we can never hope to have the student body run
_ by the proper officers and in the proper way.

-_Then there is a further consideration involved. The men we elect will
hold their positions for the next college year. They have to have the whole-
- hearted support of at least a majorty. of the student body in order to carry out
’ their plans and accomplish any thing’of value. For that reason it is practically
ary that they be elected by a majority of all the students, not a majority
ew voting, with a large number. who always oppose whatever is later

hen those doing the kicking had not taken enough interest in who was
to vote at all. At Davidson we have been fortunate in having little

th political organizations trying to. swing votes to men who don’t
em. The duty rests with every student to vote, and to vote as he
order to insure the election of the proper men in the coming

sh shige

havior other than the specific items to which
the honor is expressly applied.

It is therefore contended that other col-
lege activities can be successfully controlled ;

|if the student is made to feel that such ac-

tivities can be successfully controlled if the
student is made to ‘feel that such activities
tivities are laid to his honor. Church-going
is the next thing that should be controlled by
the honor system. It has been seen that the.
ruling regarding the seniors in this matter
has been successful. The same respect to
this honor and obedience to its principle will
likewise manifest itself in the three lower
classes. Church-going will be made pleas-
anter and more homelike if the students are
at liberty to go any time of the day, either,
here or wherever they might be. Where a|
student feels it is his honor to go or report |
himself, he will make it more strictly a part,
of his weekly routine than when he is at,
home. It is contrary to human nature to.
enjoy an event under compulsion. Resorting |
to the honor system, though only nominally |
abrogating the ruling, will render the church |
services more enjoyable, and a better place |
for individual worship. -
E, PLURIBUS UNIUM.,

D |
HUGH SMITH DELEGATE |
TOODK CONVENTION |

Hugh Smith, representing O D K, end
accompanied by Albert Hillhouse, were pres- |
ent at the annual convention of O D K,|
held at the University of Richmond, Va.,
February 16 and 17.

These two Davidsonians were entertained
royally and report a successful meeting. On’
the first day, an automobile ride was given

?
|
|

jtaking in points of historical interest Of | oapeEOn:

which there are many in Richmond. |
dance was given Friday evening at the Coun-|
try Club in honor of the guests.

The business session began Saturday, Feb- |
ruary 17, at 9 o'clock’ with a welcome ad-|
dress by Doctor Boatwright, president of the
university. Following this reunion, the con-
vention adjourned for lunch at the univer-
sity cafeteria. During the lunch hour, the.
delegates were shown points of interest on
the campus. 1 ie

The evening reunion lasted until 6:30.
o'clock, when the meeting adjourned to en- |
joy a smoker given at the Richmond Hotel, |
and which closed the convention. |

Smith and Hillhouse stayed at the semi- |
nary during their short visit and had the |
pleasure of meeting many old Davidson men |
there. oY)

On Sunday Smith and Hillhouse stayed in
Washington, D. C., going to Annapolis and
Baltimore on Monday. While in Baltimore
they visited Johhs Hopkins, where they were
shown around by Junebug Price, '22, who jis
studying. medicine at that institution.

‘

we

|
| A box will be placed in front of the

i ds
Library for the purpose of securing fun
cKenaree is at to allow Wood-Up Smith, Bill Glenn

COLUMN i| and W. A. Patterson the pleasure of know-
| | ing how it feels to have one’s hair cut. All

| students are urged to contribute to this
worthy cause.

*

—_——

Prof.—Mr. Biddle, what. is the origin of

the word Climax?
Biddle—Chewing tobacco.

A wood pecker pecks
Out a great many speck$
Of sawdust a
When building a hut.
He works like a nigger
To make the hole bigger
He is sore if his cutter
Won't cut.
He don't bother with plans
Of cheap artisans,
But there is one thing
Can rightly be said:
The whole excavation
Has this explanation—
He builds it

Someone on English IV review the other
day read the question, “Give the rimes of
ithe Chant Royal,” and asked, “Is that the
|way to spell rhymes?” To which Jerry
| Fenton replied, “Oh, he means watermelon
| rimes.””

Those on the sick list for the past week
| include T, B. Thompson, J. A. Lake, T. F,
Barron, H. Y. Alexander, F, R. Hudson
land J. M. Appleby

By
Using Pat Crawford on English V giving the
His class the benefit of the introduction to his
Head. ‘latest short story, read the following sen-
—The Spectator. tence: “Next morning Pietro was shot at
sunset”

It would be a great world if people put as
much faith in a man as a woman puts in ‘The professor on Fresh Math had been
a safety pin. ' explaining the Functions of Zero to the class.
‘ ..| It took Tom Taylor quite a while to get the

Rufus—Did you ever see the Catskill | drift. After continued explanation, Tom
mountains ? | remarked, “We had more trouble with noth-
Rastus—Naw, but I’se seen the cats kill) ing (zero) than we did with the whole first
mice. |chapter.” ‘To which the professor replied,

RTs , “T would have thought you were well
The Greatest Things acquainted with that already.”
‘The greatest sin—fear. |
The best day—today. | Izzy ‘Thames went calling on a young lady
The biggest fool—the girl or boy who will| the other night, but the young lady didn’t
not got to school. see him. ‘The derby was so large she
The greatest deceiver —one who deceives | couldn't find Izzy.

himself.
The most beautiful woman—the one you love. |
The greatest mistake—giving up. | is like trying to swat mosquitoes in New
The most expensive indulgence—hate. | Jersey on a hot summer night. Among the
The cheapest, stupidest, and easiest thing to, latest to receive this rite are D. J. Chipman,

do—finding fault. | Watt McCain, Jno. D. Parrish, Archie Keels
The greatest trouble maker —talking too, and Jew Fleming.

much,

‘he worst bankrupt—the soul that has lost|
its enthusiasm.

The cleverest man—one who always does
what he thinks is right.

Keeping up with the initiates of the H. C.

Reg. Price (reading newspaper)—Jack, I
| see some of your intimate friends have been
burned in Salisbury.
Jack Austin—Who’s that?
The best teacher—one who makes you want! Reg.—EFight mules were burned last week
to learn. \in Salisbury.
The best part of anyone's religion—gentle- |
Rees and cheerfulness. | Shorty Brown, who boards at Thompson's,
The meanest feeling—jealousy. ..__ | uttered the following remark recently: “Gee,
The most important training—training in jts hard on a fellow’s eyes here at meal time

democracy. | looking for something to eat.”
The greatest need—common sense.

The best gift—forgiveness. |
—By Dr. Frank Crane. |

Bill Heston says the reason he was named
| Bill was because he was born on the first of
| the month.

“Is this a second-hand store?”
“Yessum.” | sia ;
“Well, I want one for my watch.” | Count Davis, on seeing what happened in
| the movies to the horse Bountiful, became
| frightened, for supper at his boarding house
| Saturday night consisted principally of
{apples and water. No wonder he was
| worried.

She—Do you love me still?
He—I do, but you seldom are.

Rastus—Liza, will you go ridin’ in mah
Ford?

Liza—I won't do nothing else.

Rastus—Then you can’t ride in mah Ford.
— Awgwan.

“By Jove” Rogers says that it is a sad
| thought, but one wearies even of praise.
|

|
|
|

Anyone desiring to get a concrete idea of
Below are a few suggestions for gradua-| the ruins of Belgium has only to visit our

tion presents this year. | campus,
1, Trip around the world. |

2. Packard Twin Six, Davidson College possesses some wonder-
3. Eight or ten suits of clothes. | fully unique art galleries, museums, etc. If
4. A job as leading man with Betty you haven't taken cognizance of this fact
previously, you should by all means visit
John Simpson’s gallery of favorite
movie stars;
Chink . Woods’
| Phillips’ paintings ;
| _ Finn, Scott & Co.’s museum of ancient
and extinct musical instruments;
Gordon and Brown’s gymnasium of
boxing and fencing;
Gettys Guille’s School of Riding and
Horsemanship.

5. A job as deck hand on a submarine,
—Va. Tech.

First Girl—I love Garber-Davis. exabiton .ot ccs

S. G.—Give me Weidermyer every time.
T. G. (The country cousin) —We’ve always
gotten better satisfaction dealing with Sears-
Roebuck. They are so prompt—Boll Weevil.

He—If I had known that tunnel was so!
long, I would have kissed you.
She—God heavens, wasn’t that you?—|
Sandspur.

Judging from the noise of clanking horse- .
| shoes, it would seem that members of the
| student body are attempting to wring the

Unconfirmed reports say an African lion | * tnoret
S$wallowed a flivver a few weeks ago. He | ae a ini aia daar:

forgot to shut off the engine, however, and |
shook to death in fifteen minutes—N. Y, |
Globe.

Bill Bogart, ex-24, who is now a student
: ‘ at N. C. State, spent the week-end on the
Gushing Lady—I think Reverend Taylor Hill.
is just wonderful. He brings home to you
things that you never saw before. Rube Curdts visited friends and relatives
Cadet—He hasn't got a thing on that|in Greenville, S.: C., during the past
laundry. up at college, © teeter tuweelgepnd.;, sai

was

ae
