~ DAVIDSON— $90,000.00
IMPROVEMENT TOWN

The Babidson Obserter é

ical aN
Toda

—1 Page

f 22, 1

2 L]

Coach Currie’s Diamond
(Continued from Page 7)
from South Carolina, seems destined

to hold down the center suburb. In

the field his great speed enables him to .

absorb any ball within a wide cruis-
ing zone. Although a light hitter, he
will draw many a free transportation
to first, and ever on base his speed will
make him a terror to the oposing
teams,

Vance, the Freshman slugger, will

probably be seen in the right field Pas- negro child; 3 inactive cases, all 3 white) The many friends of Mrs. W. D. Vin- Company of this city and has only recently
ture. While not a polished player, he adults; 2 doubtful cases, ffl-ray examination | cent will regret to know that she has been. given up that position.

has shown a remarkable ability to
hammer the old apple against the left
field fence. His weakness seems to
be curve balls. Boushee, a pitcher, if
needed, is capable of holding down

Monarch
Coffee

**Costs You Less’’

H. M. Johnson

Srocasccccccccccecccccesccccccacescceceseseccccccccccccvcccsescsccccscoccsscoccsssesesesecases

SLUQUONUANNOAUCNNAAAUUONGNAGAOUUNLAGOGOUONGBATUONNOGAGOUUGOGAOAUUONEYOUEONO ANOLE |

PUBLIC SALES

We have purchased 122,000 pair U.
S. Army Munson last shoes, sizes 514
to 12, which was the entire surplus
stock of one of the largest U. S.
Government shoe contractors.

This shoe is guaranteed one hundred
per cent solid leather, color dark tan,
bellows tongue, dirt and waterproof.
The actual value of this shoe is $6.00.
Owing to this tremendous buy we can
offer same to the public at $2.95.

Send correct size. Pay postman on
delivery or send money order. If
shoes are not as represented we will
cheerfully refund your money
promptly upon request.

National Bay State
Shoe Company

296 Broadway, NEW YORK, N. Y.
DUUUGGADEGUNGUONDUNGATOOASOONUNGAEOGOGDOOODONUOGDGONOGOOEOOONOONOOONNAINONIN

|
|

if

}

DAVIDSON VISITED BY
| HEALTH SPECIALIST

DAVIDSON VISITED ... ... CATCH
A very successful free clinic was held |
in the town of Davidson by Dr. Spruill, |
a public health specialist, Feb. 27th, through
| March 3rd. Twenty-one cases of tubercu-
advised as to preventative  ,.:;ETAOET)|
| culosis were found and thirty-nine people ad- |
| vised,.as to preventative measures, as fol- |
lows: ‘

16 positive, active cases including 10 white |
adults, 2 wbite children, 3 colored adults, 1)

| advised, 2 white adults; 13 advised milk diet |
las a preventative, including 4 white adults
and nine white children; 32 advised tonsils |
removed, including 4 white adults, 4 white,

children, 24 negro children; 1 advised teeth

removed, I negro adult; 3 advised hook |

worm examination; 3 white children; 1 ad-
vised hypothroidism treated, 1 white adult.
All others examined were found negative.
This clinic was made possible by the sale
of Christmas seals. $105.06 was raised in
Davidson this year, this being about ten
times the usual amount.
| The thanks of the committee are extend-
ed to Dr. J. J. Withers for the use of his of- |
fice and to the Civic League for its Hall to
Mr. J. R. Withers for donating a load of

NONE BETTER wood to the four out-of-town men who gave
us talks on tuberculosis, to the assistant coun
|ty health officer and nurse, and to those cit- |

OBTAINABLE izens who so unselfishly gave of their time
AT |and strength to the work of the clinic.
(Signed) LOUISE WITHERS SLOAN,
Chairman of the Christmas Seals
ANY PRICE Committee.
D

Junior Speaking Promises
(Continued from Page 1)
proportion of each class has announced |

intentions of seeing the thing through |
from the beginning to the final wind- |
up. The stress of each man having
a girl as his guest is beginning to bear

BLUE ESTABLISHES
CHEVROLET AGENCY

Mr. J. M. Blue, well known citizen of Da-
vidson, has recently secured the agency for
the Chevrolet motor car for this vicinity.
Miss Mary Black continues quite ill ath ane prt) ae ry had i tae ae
her home on Concord Street, — ‘tory for his field of work. His headquar-
The Girl Scouts of the town will sell can-| ters will be here at Davidson, but his work
dies at the movies every Saturday evening | wil} carry him throughout this section of the
Mr. and Mrs. Jerry Spaugh of Greensboro | county.
are guests of Mrs. Albert M. Cathey on! Mr. Blue was formerly for some time
South street. Superintendent of the Linden Manufacturing

ero om,
PICTORIAL REVIEW ii

McCALL’S MAGAZINE
DELINEATOR
AMERICAN BOY

THE YOUTH’S
COMPANION

ST. NICHOLAS

LITTLE FOLKS
MAGAZINE

VICTORIA
WITHERS

DAVIDSON

|

TOWN NEWS

Mrs. P. W. Booe is visiting her brother
in Spartanburg, S. C.

D.

shee NEW MEN RECEIVED

quite ill for several days.

@iss Grace Goodrum attended the
by district League Union meeting last Fri- BY SIGMA UPSILON
and Saturday.

Dr, and Mrs. Fraser Hood, in company’ The Sigma Upsilon national literary fra-
with the Misses Young, plan to spend Easter ternity held its annual initiation on Mon-
in Winston-Salem. day night. The initiates were R. R. Jones,

Sympathy is felt for the sexton of the W. F. Galloway, W. M. Heston and L. D.

Presbyterian church, Monroe Byrnes, whose Elkins. After having been prepared for

son, Walter, died last Wednesday and was induction into the fellowship of the frater-

\ , , * .

buried in the colored cemetery east of town. | ™tY the new US VAS introduced to the
Mrs. Browley, mother of J. T. Browley, ideals and mysteries of the fraternity. The

23. was in {oak fantiweci: ‘initiation was followed by a short business

Vy A ircl f the W ; Auxil- meeting in which it was decided that the
Un ee eh Cad "| fraternity would take up the study of a se-

ae
=

secccccccccscscocccscsccceceeseseceeceseceecesecsccccsccccsssesesee,

eee.
se
ss"
ss
rH
ss
ss

Henderson Auto
Electric Co.

jary met last Thursday. ‘There will be an
entire re-arrangement of the membership
under the new leaders. Mrs. Hearn has

rics of short plays produced by the Caro-
lina Playmakers of the University of
North Carolina. The meeting ended with

BATTERY REPAIRING

been sara pide AR or Laat artes therserving/of refreshments) and
Rents base ay + M. Mougias, who Nas re- ‘The members of the faculty who were
CONEY SesIBNEC! present were Dr: Fraser Hood, Dr. J. M. ACCESSORIES

Miss Elizabeth Proctor spent last week McConnell, Mr. L. M. Currie and Dr. E,
with friends and relatives in Denver. 'J. Erwin, president of the national fra-
D: ternity. Mr. R. R. McIlwaine and Mr. J.
The Quadrangle Club, composed in the |G. Garth, alunthi from Charlotte, were ‘al-
main of members of the college faculty, So present.
held their monthly meeting Friday even- |
ing, assembling in the Civic League Hall. |.
iu cus eestor Sng rears Beosre Ste presented by the Davidson Cornel-
general discussion, there was served by the,. |, _ id tia ‘ Mra
younger members of the club, acting as a| i" | ost of the American Legion. ‘The
committee on “eats,” a tempting. course in| Story is based on Edward Everett
salads, sandwiches, coffee, cakes and choc- Hales’s immortal The Man IWVithout a
olate. Country, starring Arnold Daly, he be-

Davidson, N. C.

D.

LV

The Man Without a Country will

Men’s U. S. Army Mun-

ee and a et vote of the piidenty Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, who is an authority | ing supported by an admirable cas*.
body assures bot quantity and quality ‘on bee culture, both as a student and as 4) Patriotism and love are the keynotes
of the fairest of the fair sex. | theorist putting into practice his knowledge, |

The eradduchines comen Saturday! Havas: by scequest anetitaeeuher adareas on |! the production and are well worked

son-last Shoes at

$2.95

night in the gym when a cabaret ex-|
travaganza will be opened to the fun,
loving public of Davidson., From the
ordinary ,“Hill” one will be magically |
transplanted to the lights and fun of|
New York, to the jazz and joy of jol-|

|ly Frisco, to the whirl of Coney Is-/ out the first issue of an attractive little|

land, and to the mallifluent charm of |
the roadside cabaret. ‘The details have |
have not been exposed but the Ju-|
niors have it up their sleeves and there
is no doubt but that it will create a!
sensation. |
The complete program is as fol-|
lows: |
Thursday night, Picture Show—
Adam’s Rib.
Friday morning, Junior Speeches.
Friday afternoon, Baseball—Oak- |
ridge vs. Davidson.
Friday evening,
Plays.

|

Three One-Act|

Mrs, |

READ THIS!

Your Ford will look twice
as handsome with Sil-
vertowns on all four
wheels —and_ they’ll
double your past tire
mileage.

se

BEST IN THE LONGO RUN”

t

Saturday morning, Two Class Foo
ball games.
| Saturday afternoon,
| Oakridge vs. Davidson.

Saturday after the game, Frater-
nity Pink Tea.

Saturday evening, Cabaret at Gym.

Sunday evening, Special “Y” Ser-
vice.

Monday night, Picture Show.

D

t-|

Exceedingly Bright Prospects
(Continued from Page 2)
Wm. Johnson, and the former Australian
champion of the world. It is a slow motion
film, and is coming to Davidson from the
United States Lawn Tennis Association in
the hope that it will be a means of stimu-
lating interest in tennis. The film is for
instruction rather than amusement, and as
such will prove a great help to the tennis
enthusiasts of Davidson in improving their
playing. i
D.

Hic: “If the doctor has a date with your
gitl what would you do?”
_ Palmolive: “Eat an apple a day.”

Baseball— |

bees. The lecure, covering the large part
of the hour, was informative.
D.

Ly

The many friends of Miss Adele Shel-
ton will be glad to know that.she is improv-

ing from her recent operation. ©
The 10th grade of the High School put

pamphlet this week.

Miss Madeline Cathey has been ill for a
few days, but is meeting classes again this
week. :

Miss Elizabeth Potts visited friends in
Charlotte last week. &

Last week the Book Lovers’ Club met
with Mrs. James L. Currie and in spite of

While Dr. Melton Clark was at the col-

ilege, he spent several enjoyable hours on| Said:
the Davidson golf course in the, company! picture thus far shown contains so

of Doctor Arbuckle.

The Intermediate Christian Endeavor So-
ciety of the local church presented a de-
lightful pageant at their meeting last Sun-

day. Miss Johnnie Shelton had charge of |

the affair.

| The Book Lovers’ Club had’ a most in-| serious operation at the Mercy Gen-

teresting meeting at the home of Mrs.
James Currie last week, at which Miss Liz-
zie Young read a splendid paper on Rus-
|kin’s \ability as an author. The program
| for the coming year was discussed and de-
| cided upon,

| Mrs. Irwin has been ill for
|week. Her large circle of friends join in
| wishing her a speedy recovery.

Miss Mary Richards, who teaches at
| Mocksville, N. C., spent the week-end with
her father, Dr. C. M, Richards. Mrs. Rich-
ards has been visiting friends in South
Carolina and Georgia.

The Civic League is making a great ef-
fort to have a clean-up week. Mrs. Lingle,
who is in charge of the work, visited the
white and colored schools last-Saturday and
secured the interest of the children in the
movement.

Miss Grace James, a senior at Winthrop
College, spent the week-end at the home
of her uncle, Dz. J. P. Douglas.

Mrs. W. R. Grey, Mrs. Wharey and
Mrs. J. M. Douglas spent Sunday in Hick-
ory, N. C., attending the fiftieth anniversa-
ry of the Presbyterian church at that place.
The: father of Mrs. Douglas was a former
pastor of the Hickory church.

the past|

_—

out. From the first scene to the last.
lthe picture is crammed chuck full of
jreal, live action. No  red-blooded
| American could afford to miss this
|show, The production is made up of
|historical scenes, dramatic incidents
jin the lives of leaders in American
may be cold and we are the same;
| development and a touching story of
patriotism. The picture is said to
lbe too big, too great to attempt 1
;complete description of it. Every
| dramatic critic who has seen the pic-
ture has been lavish in praising it.
| One of the New York reviewers
“No ‘word thus: far spoken, no

Sizes 5% to 12

Never again will you be able to buy these shoes
at such a low price. We were lucky in finding a
manufacturer, who was overstocked with them, and
needed ready cash, so’ we bought them at almost
one-half of the regular price. This shoe is made
over the U. S. Army Munson last, with extra heavy
stitching; special grained chrome brown leather
used throughout. An ideal shoe for workmen,
farmers, icemen, postmen, carpenters and motor-
men, who are obliged to be on their feet all day.

Send correct size. Pay Postman $2.95 on deliv-
ery, or sepd us a money order.

If you are not satisfied with these shoes after

you éxamine them, we will promptly refund your
money.

U. S. DISTRIBUTING & SALES
COMPANY

20-26 West 22nd St. NEW YORK CITY, N. Y.

much inspiration to Americans.”
| Don’t miss this attraction. Admission,

| two bits.

VICTROLAS

New VICTOR
RECORDS Every
Two Weeks
EVERYTHING IN FURNITURE

| Miss Archie Sloan underwent a

eral Hospital, in Charlotte, recently.

|She has rallied well and expects to
ibe able to return home soon.

Messers Lampton and Burke have
returned from Kentucky and ex-
| pect to push the work on their.con-
tract on the road from here to Char-

hae People’s Home
| eine Furnishing Co.

A friendship that kes the least
u Ra peti oe MOORESVILLE, N. C.

| friend to a zealous one.—Addison.

Electrik Maid BREAD

PIES---CAKES---BUNS
“Taste the Difference’

-Electrik Maid Bake Shop

MOORESVILLE, N.C.)

z)

on
