THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 22, 1923

_

———

es eT as

SATURDAY .J.Chipman Elected to
|

Succeed Heston as Editor

7:15 P. M.

|Heston Resigns from Position as
| Editor of Quips and Cranks

Through the ill fortune of Bill Heston’’s
| late sickness is has become necessary that he
|retire from the position of Editor-in-Chief
| of our important college publication, the
| Quips and Cranks, and of course it becomes
/necessary that this organ of the student body |
{place at its head another strong and sub-
| statitial leader, which has been done. The
|annual staff voted that .Heston’s successor
; should be Don Chipman.
| A great amount of the work had already
| been accomplished before Bill was taken ill,
and done in excellent shape. As the work
| passes into Chipman’s hands he will find it
| much easier than if he had started at the be-
ginning. It is expected that Chipman will
handle the annual this year and make a name
‘for himself, because he has had a good deal

of experience along this line.

In order to fill the ‘position of literary
editor, which Chipman formerly occupied, it
Was necessary to elect a suitable man who |
was readify found in the person of Albert
Lake. It is a certainty that he will fill this
' position most satisfactorily and make this de-
partment of the annual the best that it has

‘these debates have not been definitely decided

Fresh to Make Debut —_ Bachelors Installed as Phi
In N. C. Forensic Circles | Gamma Delta Chapter

Triangular Debate Arranged With

Carolina and Wake Forest Many Prominent Men in the South

Present at Installation
This year will mark the entrance of David-

son College Freshmen*debaters into intercol-; On last Saturday the Bachelors Club of
legiate contests. Davidson is to take Trin- , Davidson College was merged into the
ity’s place in the annual Triangular Debate Fraternity of Phi Gamma Delta as the Delta
which in’ former years has “heen between | Kappa chapter of the Fraternity and its ;
Wake Forest, Carolina and Trinity first sixty-fifth undergraduate chapter, All of
year men, If the new organization is satis- the chapters of the Fraternity in the South, |
factory this year it will become permanent. | both active and inactive were represented,
with the exception of the chapter at the Uni-
\versity of Texas. Twenty-one active mem- |
bers and twenty-two alumni members were |
initiated. |

Every member of the Freshmen class ts
privileged to take part in the preliminaries
scheduled for next February. All who have
any ability in this line of work are urged to : :
try for the team. Six, men will be chosen, Among the prominent men in the Frater- |
three for the affirmative and three for the "ity who were here for the installation cere- |
negative. The negative team of each school Monies were?>G, F, Snyder, National Secre- |
debates in foreign territory while the affirm- tary; Philip E. Lyon, Field Secretary; C. J
atives remain at their own college. Wilkinson, Editor of the Fraternity Maga- |!

Although plans for selection of topics for Alu ah 2h OLY St Ts bb Naw GH a
lanta,’ Ga.; Hon. John LL. Rendleman of

. Salisbury, N. C.; . Dandridge Spotts-
upon, they will probably be chosen by each lisbury N.C; Hon Dandridge Spotts |
wood of Petersburg, Va. |

of the three colleges sending to the executive
committee two subjects for debates. These — Among the delegates from other chapters
must be in by December 1, Ten days later Were: Frank Hardy and O, TT) Shrop-
the two which are chosen by the committee Shover, from the University of Alabama ;

will be announced,

M. D. Jarvis and F. B. Mayes from the Uni- |

DISTINCTIVE PICTURES
CORPORATION presents

cECRGE ARI 5
GREEN

wh Alice Joyce
David and Harry T.Morey
Lf “ rma bday Oh am —

\

The Biggest Picture
of the Season.

Don’t Miss It

Admission 25c

“Bring a chair”

THE GREEN GODDESS

That highly melodramatic story “The
Green Goddess,” by William Archer, has
been transferred to the screen and with
George Arliss starring will be shown here
Saturday night. Asa play “The Green God-
dess,” enjoyed a run of two years at the
Booth Theatre, New York, being one of the
most successful stage offerings of the past
decade. I[t is now meeting with equal suc-
cess in London.

The picture version has had a_record-
breaking run at the Sam H. Harris Theatre,
New York, equalling in every way its’ popu-
larity as a play. The sets for this photo-
play are said to be unequalled for splendor
and the most elaborate ever constructed in an
Eastern studio.

In support of Mr. Arliss in “The Green
Goddess” is a distinguished cast. In the
principal feminine role is the always gor-
geous Alice Joyce. Incidentally this appear-
ance marks Miss Joyce’s return to the screen
after several years’ absence.

David Powell, remembered chiefly for his
remarkable work in support of Mae Murray
in “On With the Dance,” has a’ wonderful
part, as has Harry T. Morey, the former
Vitagraph star. Others in the cast are Jetta
Goudal, Ivan Simpson and William Worth-
ington.

The direction of »“The Green Goddess”
was in the hands of Sidney Olcott who acted
in a similar capacity for Marion Davies in
“Little Old New York.” Forest Halsey
famous magazine writer and novelist, adapted
the play to the screen.

Oriental details were personally supervised
by Roshanara, famous interpreter of East
Indian Dances.

WHY WORRY?

The print of “Why Worry” the latest
Harold Lloyd picture, which we had booked
for December 1st, was burned in a theatre
fire in Greenville, S. C., and therefore we
won't get to see this picture. until after the
Holidays. However, we were fortunate in
securing Lloyd’s other new picture “Safety
Last” for showing next week, and if you
haven’t seen this one, you don’t want to miss
it. Those who have seen it before will be
there of course. It is full of thrills as well
as being about as funny as anything you
ever witnessed.

|
|of Golden Rule Day arranged by the organi-

been.

GCLDEN RULE DAY TO BE
OBSERVED BY TOWN

New York, Nov. 18—Woodrow Wilson's
Sunday dinner on December 2nd will consist
of beans, corn grits, and soup.

Mr, Wilson pledged himself and his house-
hold to partake of this frugal meal, the Near
East Relief announced today, in observance

sation in its campaign for funds to feed
Near East orphans. The difference in cost
between the typical orphans’ menu and the
jusual meal will be contributed to the food
find.

The above news article appears Monday in
practically every newspaper in the country
that is a member of the Associated Press.
| The article explains itself, and the campaign
being put on by the Near East Relief com-
mittee is meeting with the co-operation and
backing of the greatest leaders of America,
|and some of the largest organizations. (Cal-
| vin Coolidge, President of the United States,
| has commended the committee for its work,
jand is backing this movement.
| Plans are under way to get Davidson to
|observe this Golden Rule Sunday, on De-
| cember 2nd. Mr. Williams, “Y” secretary,
| is general head of the work, and a committee
| from the Christian Endeavor T raining Class
is working with him, The plan is to have a
simple meal on that Sunday, instead of the
usual dinner, the difference in cost to go to
the Near East Relief.
vidson will be asked to observe this.

The date set for the major debates is April
V1, 1923.

versity of Tennessee; D. 1. Mahood, Harriss,
Davenport, H. G. Biers, from the Univer-

sity of Virginia; HH. G,- Chesley, A. H.
Haynes, B. Ff. Broach, from the University |
of Richmond; C. S, Heilig and P. W. Mul-
jlins, from Washington and Lee; A.C. Thur-
‘man, from Dartmouth, Bert Cunningham,
from Illinois Wesleyan and Jules EK. Welch,
from Sewanee.
The active members initiated into Delta

GLEE CLUB SCHEDULES
(Continued from page 1)
be regarded as one of the biggest features of
the well-balanced program. In addition to
the choral and solo numbers, the club boasts
three orchestras that may well be matched Kappa Chapter were: D, J. Chipman, W. T.
with the best instrumental musicians ever Jones, A. C. Keels, 1. 1. Boushee, Re 1.
produced in college circles. The Symphony | Stowe, J. A. Lake, J. 1. Green, M.S. Beall,
Orchestra was organized last’ year and is | D. F. Mallery, R. W. Walker, I. R. Mont
functioning as one of the headliners in the gomery, [. L. Morrison, B. I. Hastie, Ey AL
Glee Club program. The Jazz Orchestra has O'Neal, A. S. Jones, D. G. Wilson, J. 1.
operated as a unit for the past two years and | Moore, 1. B. Huie, Nv. Sappentield, HH,
Lindamood, and T. G. Coltrane.
Alumni members initiated were:

its novelty hits will score before the most
critical audiences, In its personnel are found | IDyu, “10,
several musicians of Southern jazz fame. W. Lingle, Ff. 1. Baker, 1. B. MelKeithen,
They jazz their way straight into the hearts |) A. T. Cashion, I. A. Nash, M. R. Doubles, |
of their hearers, The string orchestra has M. A. Siske, L. P, Good, E. T, Woolfolk, |
scored one of the biggest hits in the per- M. B. Foil, W. HH. Moore, J. G. Richards, |
formances to date. They have been encored M. M. Erwin, W. H. Miley, W. IE. Coving- |
repeatedly and may be relied upon to pro- ton, C, HH. Long, Db. M, Chalmers, John M.
Gaston, Ff. P. Halland R. D. Hall.

| mote the success of the Glee Club.

To break the monotony of ai entire even-
ing of music, a special number has been ar-
ranged, the leading character being portray- |

DAVIDSON R. 0. T.C. UNIT |
PRAISED BY N. C. GOVERNOR:

Every family in Da-

ed by Mr. Gallagher, of Davidson, the Wil-
jliam Jennings Coolidge of the colored race,
fone of the most prominent figures in the
campus life of Davidson.

The quartet will take the stage on two oc-
casions, Their repertoire is composed of
|novelty songs and ballads, their two most
| popular numbers being chosen from the class
fof negro lullabies.

Judging from rumors on the campus, the

|
The four companies of the Davidson R. O.
T. C. battalion, as a part of the celebration |
of the eighty-sixth anniversity of Davidson
College, the opening of the Davidson High-
| way, and Armistice Day combined, passed in
lreview before Governor Morrison, on No-
| vember 12th.

| Captain Hearn, in speaking of the review,

| Glee Club will be heard by a close approxi- stated that it was one of the most orderly and

battalion, as it swung into column of platoons
looked so well trained that Governor Morri-
son wanted to know from what camp the sol-
diers hailed. When told that the battalion,
was made up of Davidson students, the Gov-
ernor was amazed and, speaking frankly, said
he did not know that Davidson had so many
well-trained men.

An order, addressed to the R. O. T. C.
unit by Captain Hearn, congratulating the
students, has been posted. Captain Hearn
says that the spirit of Davidson College
was shown by the fact that not a single man
was absent without authority. He stated
further that the soldierly appearance and
splendid exhibition of the students was
worthy of great praise.

While the four companies were covering
themselves with praise by their creditable
work, the band was also very active. They
not only played an important part in making
the celebration at Davidson a success, but
also aided materially in making a success of
the Charlotte celebration. A letter has been
received from Mr, Paul R. Younts, the chair-
man of the Armistice Day Committee of
Charlotte, in which he expressed his deep ap-
preciation of the aid the band rendered. He
praised very highly the manner and bearing
of the Davidson band.

EDUCATION MAKES
THE WORLD A
BETTER PLACE

TO LIVE IN---

SO DOES\LIFE
INSURANCE

SOUTHERN LIFE
AND’ TRUST CO.

Greensporo, N. C.

A. W. MCALISTER, Pres.
H. B. GUNTER, Ag’cy Mgr.

The students are expected to readily co-
operate with this plan. . Indirectly they will |
be responsible for the feeding of many or- | i fi
phans, by sacrificing one Sunday dinner for a| be the only opportunity for the Davidsonians |
simple repast. This Sunday will follow im- | to hear their own Glee Club, an organization
mediately after Thanksgiving, and with al] | Which is attracting broad attention through-
the extra things of this occasion the stu- | Out the state.
dents will most likely be willing to co-oper- |
ate and make this day a success.

| MUSICAL PROGRAM TO BE |
| OFFERED BY LYCEUM

SUNDAY SCHOOL RECORDS ee aoe |
SHOW GOOD ATTENDANCE The managers of the lyceum course have |
— } announced that the second number to be of- |

Last Sunday at all the “Y” Sunday Schools | fered at Davidson will be the Galganos, who |
the attendance was good. Although some of | will come here on December 13th. |
the regular student teachers could not go,| This company consists of Mr. and Mrs. M. |
there were enough to teach the classes which | L. Galgano, who will entertain their au-!
have been having students as teachers. Five jdience through the medium of the musical |
students went to Shearer, but two more could | instruments upon which they play.
have been used. The attendance was 80.| Mr. Galgano, harpist, is an artist of rare
After Sunday School, Rev. F. A. Barnes | ability. He thoroughly understands his fa- |
preached, t vorite instrument and is capable of bringing |

There were 75 present at Hobson’s Chapel. | out the very depths of its soul. His playing |
J. C. McJunkin and Hiram Sharpe went jis full of color, fire and the delicate and |
from Davidson. Doctor White, of the First | smooth tones, ‘of which only the harp, in the |
Presbyterian Church of Mooresville, preach- | hands of an artist, is capable of producing.
ed. He preaches there twice each month.! His program will include not only the most |
Arrangements have been made for Sharpe to | popular selections of the day, but also the |
fill the pulpit every first Sunday, which will | greatest classical productions of the old mas- |

There’s Always a Better Way of Doing Things

mation of 100 per cent of the student body. | well executed reviews ever undertaken by
The Friday night performance will probably the Davidson R, O. T. C. unit. In fact, the

This progressive age con-

give three preaching days for each month.

Dr. Richards preached at the convict camp
last Sunday.

“Tag” Guiton, Lee McLean and Wade
Allison were the students who attended the
Cornelius Sunday School. The attendance
was 85.

Marion Murray, Yeargen, and Wallace
Purdy were present at the Mill Chapel.
There was an attendance of 42, which is 10
above the average.

The total number present at all the Sun-
day Schools was 343. This is 40 more than
the average attendance.
students who attended these Sunday Schools
was 13, which is at least five below the aver-
age.

The number. of

ter composers. |
Mr. Galgano is pronounced by the leading
musical critics as being unsurpassed by A
}one in America.
Mrs. Galgano, reader and guitarist, is a |
most pleasing reader and guitar soloist. Her
selections, though always amusing and pleas-
ing, have back of them an uplifting motive.
This pair of artists have been touring the
principal cities of the United States for five
years, leacing behind them a wake of delight
and sunshine. )
Included in their program will be harp
solos,.Hawaiian guitar solos, readings, guitar
and harp duets and harpologs.
The management is fortunate in securing
this talented couple at this time.

stantly discovers a better
way of doing things --- al-
ways improves --- develops
processes that excel.

Our tailors at Fashior Park,
for instance, have develop-
ed the Turole tailoring
treatment---a method of
making “soft” clothing pos-
sessing all the fine lines that
well groomed men demand.

[Pee ee eew ewe e SSeS See SSeS Seer ease wows ww ewan wenn aaa a nasa a aaa aaa ae Sasa anaes aaa a aaa saa T aaa a ae SSa aaa aaaasaassaeaaees:q

Turole is pliant---has easy,
comfortable lines ---con-
forms to the wearer’s action
or inaction---is thoroughly
distinguished.

The Turole tailoring treat-
ment is available in a series
of interesting styles devel-
opments---we’re making a
special exhibit of them
now.

8882888 BERET DATTA DDT DD DDD DDD TDDB TDDB DDD DDD D DD DDD TDDB DDD DDD DDR TDDB DDD R anna aman a

EFIRD‘'S.

Dorr rrr rrr rrr rrr rrr rr rrr}
