THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 26, 1923

=

RELIGIOUS NEWS

‘REVEREND J.T. PHARR TO BE
LOCAL “Y” SECRETARY IN 1924

Former Wildcat Football Star to
Succeed Buck Currie As Director
of Triangle Activities.

Rey. J. T. Pharr, pastor of the First Pres-
byterian church at Renick, West Virginia
will be the Y secretary at Davidson next
year. Mr. Pharr graduated from Davidson
in 1912 and shortly afterwards made his
decision to go into the ministry. He com-
pleted his preparation at Union Seminary
in 1917. He then joined the navy after
which he took up his life work. The home
mission work in the mountains appealed to
him so he began his work in West Virginia
where he is now located. As he labored
among these people the membership of his
church steadily increased so that in a short
time the membership had doubled itself.
Just recently he has been successful in or-
ganizing a mission station into a church.

Mr. Pharr, better known to his classmates
as ‘Tim Pharr, entered Davidson College in
1909. All four years that he was here he
stood high in athletics. In his sophomore
year he made the Varsity football squad.
In the position of left half-back he was
noted for his splendid interference. His
last two years were even more brilliant than
the first. two. He added two stars to his
honors in football and was at that time
considered the best player bythe team.

It was with much reluctance that Mr.
Pharr consented to give up his work in the
mountains to become Y secretary at Dav-
idson. But he comes to Davidson fully
equipped to do the work for which he was
secured. He is a man of powerful person-
ality. Everyone who knows him has been
impressed with his sincerity and earnestness
in his work. His quiet, good nature and
frank manner have won him many friends,
and it is believed that he will be a great
success in his new work at Davidson.

Y. M. C. A. DEPUTATIONS
FOR REMAINDER OF YEAR

The Y. M. C. A. Deputations Committee,
under the chairmanship of Bill Cooper, has
arranged for six deputations to be sent out
during the remainder of the scholastic year.

On Saturday, Sunday and Monday, April
28-30, John Grey and Wallace Moore will
conduct a series of services in Gastonia,
speaking in the various churches of the city
on Sunday, and having meetings in the pub-
lic schools during Monday.

A special deputation, with Leonard Dick
as chairman, has been arranged for Concord
during the week-end of the second week of

* May, and continuing through Monday, May
14. With Dick will go Bascomb Sorrells,
Wallace Moore, and probably other promin-
ent members of the “Y”. The members of
this deputation will be in charge of a “Help
Your Buddy” Campaign, which will be a fea-
ture of the Boys’ Work Campaign of the
“Y”. While on these deputations, the men
will address the Sunday Schools and Chris-
tian Endeavor Societies.

Groups: will also be sent to Shelby, Lin-
colnton, the John C. Smith University in
Charlotte, and in all probability to Green-
ville, although the arrangements for the
South Carolina city have not been complet-
ed. The dates and members of the. other
deputations had not been determined when
this issue of the Davidsonian went to press.

De

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVORERS
PLAN MOORESVILLE TRIP

The Christian Endeavor Training Class
discussed the Christian Endeavor Efficiency
Chart at its last meeting. Plans were made
to have the annual meeting and feed on Sat-
urday night after the movies. At that time

reports will be given by the different com-
mittees on the work of the past year, and
officers will be elected for the coming year.

Next Sunday evening the ‘whole class,
\composed_of twenty members, will go to the
. First Presbyterian Church of Mooresville
and put on a Christian Endeavor meeting

in charge of the young people. At this
meeting, Bracey made a forceful talk on The
Ideal Life. Carr spoke on the history, prin-
ciples needs and ideals of Christian Endea-
vor.

After the meeting a conference was held
with the officers of the society. It is of in-
terest to note that this society put on the
model meeting at a conference held at Gas-
tonia not long ago. Although a number of
the young people are away at school yet
there are eighteen active Endeavorers. Carr
and Bracey were entertained at the home of
the Presbyterian minister.

T).

EVOLUTION DISCUSSED
BY PROFESSOR FOREMAN

At the regular weekly meeting of the
Ministerial Band last Sunday morning those
present were privileged to hear Prof. K. J.
Foreman speak on Evolution. He stated in
the beginning that he would neither attack
hor defend evolution from a scientific view-
point but that his remarks would be a plain
Christian’s view of evolution.

“Evolution is only a hypothesis,” said Prof.
Foreman. “It is not an explanation of the
creation, but rather a description of that
work, It is absurd to make evolution a sub-
stitute for God. That is what the person
does who says that Evolution created the
earth, leaving out divine aid. The wide gulf
between life and matter has never been'féx-
plained by the evolutionist, nor has, the exis-
tence of the soul; God has supplied both.

“There are certain objections to the theory!
of evolution. One is that it hurts our pride,
we do not like to believe that our ancestors
were “imoebas or anthropoids. Another is
that it is only a hypothesis. This is Bryan’s
chief objection. The third objection is that
it is inconsistent with the Bible. The last
is that it unsettles Christian faith. This it
will do if it is allowed to replace God.”

PRESIDENT MARTIN
DELIVERS ADDRESS SUN.

(Continued from Page 1)

the college had advanced more in the last
decade than in any other previous period.
Taking his thoughts from “Thy Kingdom
come” in the Lord’s Prayer, Dr. Martin
pointed out what we pray for every time
we uttear the Lord’s Prayer. “The coming
of Christ’s Kingdom -involves three things:
first, the death of Christ; second, the resur-
rection of Christ; third, the carrying of His
Word over the entire globe. These three
are equal prerequisites to the coming of the
Kingdom because they are equally emphasized
in the Bible: the clauses stating these facts
are connected by and.
“Christ accomplished the first of the three
when He voluntarily died for us. All the

could not force Him against His will to die.
Jesus said to His arresting mob that He
could call forth legions of angels to fight for
Him if He so desired. Christ willingly suf-
fered and died. One-third was accom-
plished.

“Then God came to raise Jesus from the
dead, thus overcoming death so that we, sin-
ners, who believe in Him shall be raised
from the dead ‘on that day’. It looked as
if God, himself, was eager to get thru with
the second step in the coming of the King-
dom, so He raised Jesus early on the third
day.

“The third requisite for the coming of the
Realm Heaven is the preaching of the gos-
pel to the whole world. This was left to us
to do. 2,000 years have passed and less
than one-half of the world has heard of
Jesus.
world has heard of Christ for Matthew 24:
14 says; ‘And the gospel of the Kingdom
shall be preached in all the world for a wit-
ness unto all the nations; and then shall the
end come,’ 2000 years have passed; we are
holding up the Kingdom of God because we
are inactive.

“It makes no material difference to the | in-
dividual Christian whether Christ comes in
physical form and literally rules a thousand

J years, or whether there will be a spiritual]

millenium., Such differences of interpreta-
tion are immaterial. The thing for us to
Ho. isto see that the Kingdom’ of God comes
in our hearts. It is saif@ that if Queen Eliz-1
abeth had decreed that the gospel be carried

ny

The end cannot come before the|

over the earth to all people, 18 months
would have found it accomplished by her
obediant soldiers. Christ has done His part;
God has done His part; the rest of His Al-
mighty plan is left to us.”

T).

NET TEAM. RUNS
WILD WITH CLEMSON

(Continued from Page 1.)

succeeded in capping the ‘set 7-5. Also in
the second and last set the score was even
a worse handicap. Fighting against a 4-0
margin the Davidson captain won seven
games, while his opponent took the decision
in one. The final score was 7-5 as in the
first set. Vic Brown refereed the matches.
Staley, a new member of the Davidson
team, was matched, against Fitzgerald. He
gives promise of making’ a valuable man
for the rest of the season and the two years
to come. He took his two sets in fine style,
8-6, 6-1. Fitzgerald furnished interesting
opposition for the first set, but in the sec-
ond Staley’s superior ability asserted itself
and he came through with an easy win.
The closest match of the day was be-
tween Price of Davidson and Grier of Clem-
son. Here again fate seemed to play its
part, and the lot of the two managers fell
together. Besides managing the Clemson
team, Grier is. president of the South Car-
plina Collegiate ‘Tennis Association, a sim-
ilar position being held by Captain Bradley
in North Carolina, ‘This is Price's first year
on the Red and Black squad, but he early
showed his keen playing ability and was
elected to the managership of the team, The
first set went 3-6 jg, favor of Clemson. In
the second set, the two players handled their
game about equally, so that the score ran to
10-8 before Price was declared winner. With
the sets standing 1-1 the two men entered
the third encounter probably a bit over-anx-
ious and excited; but’in a few minutes they
settled down to the real work of the day
and displayed a fine brand of tennis, Price
having a harder time winning the set than
the score, 6-2, indicates.

+In the doubles, Bradley and Staley were
matched against Gray and Grier of the
South Carolina team. Viewed from the
standpoint of the spectacular, these were the
best games of the afternoon, while the ten-
nis expert could see the presence of rare
ability in the work of the four men. Sta-
ley played a beautiful game in these sets,
accounting in a large measure for holding
the Clemson raquetteers at bay. Capt. Brad-
ley showed his usual form, forcing the ball
at will thru his opponent’s defense. Both
Gray and Grier played splendid games, look-
ing the sure winners in the first set which
they took 2-6. But Bradley and Staley
came back in the next two sets and won
them handily 6-4 and 6-3.

REJUVENATED WILDCATS
ON WINNING STREAK

(Continued from Page 1.)

ford managed to tie the score with her lone
tally of the game. Gross, first man up, hit
one of Boushee’s elusive curves for a sin-
gle to left field. Batson was safe on first
when Alford threw Gross out on a squeeze
play. An error at second left Batson half

powers on earth and all the devils in Hellfway round the diamond, with Galt on first.

J. Crawford popped up a fly to Brice, but
Lindsay connected up with the sphere for a
good single to right field, scoring Batson.
Marrow took care of a high one in center
field, and the danger of further scoring was
Tn later innings five men managed to get
on base for the visitors but succumbed on
the paths without registering another tally.
The Red and Black nine, on the other hand,
took advantage of their opportunities: In the
sixth period, when Murph’s pitching had
been shutting out the Wildcat batters pret-
ty regularly, S. Alford stepped up with his
willow stick and clouted the pill into right
field fence for three bags. Pat Crawford

another one in the same neighborhood. J.
Crawford sewed up the fly, but his peg was
too late to catch Alford at the plate.

The following inning saw two runs trickle
in for Davidson, resulting from three hits to
center field and a costly error on the part of
Wofford. With two men down, Boushee
started the fireworks by placing a clean sin-
gle in centerfield. He took second when
Richards landed a hit in the same section of
the outfield. S. Alford’s drive to the out-
field scored “Bush”, and when Galt missed a
throw at third, Richards added another run,
finishing the scoring for the day.

Wofford threatened to stage a ninth inn-
ing rally, but with men on second and third,
Boushee tightened up. The Wildcat pitcher
fidlded @ grounder, threw out a runner at the.
home-plate, leaving Brice plenty of time to
catch the batter at first. It was a pretty

se) ,

thought the spot looked good, and placed |'

double play, the kind to leave a good taste
in the mouth of a spectator.

Boushee’s pitching was an important fac-
tor in Davidson’s victory. ‘The Wildcat
southpaw allowed only five hits and kept
them well scattered. Our million-dollar in-
field worked like a bunch of veterans in spite
of the fact that only one of them has pre-
viously earned a letter on the diamond.

Out in centerfield a change was made in

the line-up, Tom Marrow filling that posi-
tion. Tom had two chances during the
game, and handled them easily. Vance and
F, Alford also performed well in their ter-
ritory.
Murph pitched a splendid game for the
invading nine, and with better support would
have made a more creditable showing. Nine
hits were listed against him, an indication
that the Wildcats are climbing up with their
batting average.

(Continued on Page 7)

The Girl, looking at picture: “My, Mr.
Boyd, this is a perfect likeness of you.”
Sam Boyd: Good-night, that aint me,
that’s Lamons.

Dear Boys: You must be barbarians.
This room is disgraceful. There isn’t a
single chair in here, aren’t you ah arltee
what do you sit on?

The World’s

Exclusive Agency

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
IN DAVIDSON :

For Sale: ‘One good cigar stump, apply
to Trawick. In good condition and guar-
anteed to be strong enough to walk.

Fresh Booth says that he is going to name
his first son Opium because he comes from
a wild poppy.

Scott: Is Herbert Tareyton a movie

actor?

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks

Eversharp Pencils Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens

Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

CANDIES

Finest Candy

cANLALA LIAS

terian Church, of Rock
Sermon before The Socie

tor of the Woodland
Nashville, Tenn.

_ siding.

tel: Wale 2. Rated L,

Columbia Theological Sethe |

COLUMBIA, SOUTH CAROLINA

JOHN M, WELLS, President
HUGH R. MURCHISON, Executive Secretary
Baccalaureate Sermon—First Presbyterian Church, Sun-

day, May 6th, at 11:30 A. M., by Rev. Alexander
Martin, D. D.. pastor of the Oakland Avenue Presby-

ty of Missionary Inquiry.
nal Hill Presbyterian Church, Sunday, May 6th, at
8:00 P. M., by Rev. Walter L. Caldwell, D. D., pas-

Tuesday, May 8th, 12M.—Meeting of the Board of Di-
rectors of Columbia Seminary.

Tuesday, May 8th, 8:00 P. M.—Inaugural address of Rev.
ames B. Green, D. D., as Professor of Theology.
irst Presbyterian Church.

Wednesday, May 9th, 11.00 A. M.—Graduating exercises
in the Seminary Chapel.

Hon. John T. Brantley, president of the Board, pre-

Presentation of diplomas and address by Rev. John

Hill, South Carolina.
—Arse-

Street Presbyterian Church,

D.. president of the Seminary. ”
