4

The DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
p. m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

EDITORIAL STAFF
L. D. ELKINS, Editor-in-Chief.
W. Z. BRADFORD, Managing Editor.

C st Sh REMAN BE Asst. Min'e’g eeahkel W. M. COX .......eseeeees Associate Editor
» B. ERICE......, Sst. Managing Editor A. C. WILDMAN......003 Associate Editor
W. F. GALLOWAY ........ Athletic Editor - $ :
W. M. HESTON ......_... Peanut Parclier J. A. LAKE «0.4. ++ Associate Editor
Exchange Editor Ri RU JONES ie ceeiiy sets Alumni Editor

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT
R. L. PRICE, Business Manager
WATT McCAIN......... Circulation Manager P. J. STORY
ASSISTANTS
W. H. CROMWELL
J. A. THOMPSON

Subscription Manager

J. L. McLEAN G. A. McCLAIN

REPORTERS’ CLUB

BROWN, W. P., Pres. McILWAINE, _C. M. PRICE, R._L.
SMITH, 'R. H., Vice-Pres. McIVER, D.D. SHARPE, W. H.
BROWN, C. V., Sec.-Treas. MAUZE, G. W. WALTHALL, D. B.
ALLISON, 0. J. MOFFETT, A._N. HARTON, D. B.
CALHOUN, M; P. MOORE, W. H. WILDMAN, A. C.
EARNEST, J. R. PATTON, J. H. WHITE, H. M.
GALLOWA |W. F POMEROY, W. L. WILLIAMS, J. M
LAKE, J. A. PRICE, H.'B.

AN INTRODUCTION

With the advent of a new regime, particularly. in the case of a functioning college
organization, there is attendant, naturally, a feeling of verdancy. The incoming staff of
The Davidsonian feels, despite the fact that each individual member has seen service in
the publication of the paper for the past two or three years, and has climbed the rungs

of earnest effort to his present position, that they are still in the embryonic stage. With’

the wholehearted cooperation of the student body, only, can the Davidsonian be preserved
as the “Livest wire on the Hill,” and the best college weekly in Dixie.

It is not only the magnetic power of the printer's ink and paste pot, and the natural
love for journalistic endeavor that incites the new Editorial Board to a resolve of faith-
fulness and diligence; but an ardent love for Davidson, for Davidson honor, for Davidson
tradition, and for Davidson’s future.

The retiring staff has done its work, and done it well. To the old editor and his

staff the new Board owes a debt of gratitude and in these columns we, of the newly
elected staff, wish to pay that honor. :

During the past year the Davidsonian was standardized as an eight page paper. A}

financial problem which has hampered the paper for the past several’ years has been

SSEiSSERHEEE

i

: SIMMASEREEEEREENENIEEE HEE
Fellows, we have taken a great step to-
ward making Davidson the best college in
the world. The abolition of hazing is one
of the most important things any student
body could do for their Alma Mater. Every
man here will some day look back upon the
days when they were in college and see that
this step has made Davidson grow, and. will
see a better college spirit than there has ever
been here. If any man shall regret that
hazing has been abolished he will not be a
true son of Davidson. The Court of Con-
trol may not be perfect but it can not be
expected to be perfect until it has been tried
for a few years. Let's go ahead with it.
Let's support it, let’s back it, and if we see
a wrong element in it let’s change it and
make it better. Hazing is a thing of the

| past here. —Order. |

DR. MARTIN'S BOYS |

| “Human Nature Analyst’”’ Passes Bouquet
To Davidson Students.
| ‘From Charlotte Observer i
| To the Editor of The Observer : |
| Early yesteday morning I saw 67 David- |
/son college students eating at Brown's res-
| taurant. They had been to a dance at the |
| Auditorium, I want to say here that in my |
| experience of more than 30 years in making |
jintensive study of men—groups and indi-
| viduals—in all circumstances—this' David-
|sonian student body is the finest I know_of.
{Gentlemen all.: Every one was stylishly and |
|neatly dressed from head to foot. Not an’
ugly word passed their lips. They were |
polite and courteous and well-behaved in,
highest degree. The manners of the Old}
South are returning. No official or pro-
fessor was in command of these hoys, either.
I'm more than proud of them. [I would
wish every one shall make North Carolina
‘home.”
DAVID SHAW.
Charlotte, April 3.
D.

PRESS BUREAU PLACED
ON FIRM FOUNDATION

The Davidsonian Pres Bureau has been
severed from any connection with the Da-
vidsonian, and from now on will operate on
the same basis as an assistant professorship.
The work of this department is to be su-
pervised by a member of the faculty, to be’
appointed later.

The Press Bureaw was started two years
aog, with Bill Cooper at its head. During
the past year Wiggs Bradford has been
|directing the work, and the services of the
| department has been a means of greatly’
| advertising the college. It was recognized
| that the Bureau was not directly a part of.

|the Davidsonian; that it had grown outside.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 12, 1923

wT
EXCHANGE
COLUMN
~w

Little by little in every way,
Little by little, thru every day,
Little by little as time flies away,
I’m wasting more of it every day.

‘

“I have only just a minute,

Only sixty seconds in it,

Forced upon me—can't refuse it,

Didn’t seek it, didn’t choose it,

But it is up to me to use it.

I must suffer if I lose it,

Give account if I abuse it.

Just a tiny little minute—

But Eternity is in it.”
2 —Exchange.

With Apologies to No One
Blessings on thee, little “hound,”
With thy hair all plastered down,
And thy mustache with two cute curls,
Packing the streets to watch the girls.
Cigarette holder and pocket flask,
“Where did you get them,” may I ask,
With thy manicured nails,
We all know whence this lad hails.
With thy line of love so neat,
And thy feminine talk so sweet,
I wish you luck, my little “hound,”
May you vamp every girl around,
From my heart I send you joy,
Glad I was not born a boy.
—An Agnes Scott Flapper.

The Seven Ages
Six—"Nice mans”,
‘Ten—-"Carry my books,”
Sixteen—"T'll ask mother.”
Twenty—"“Don't be so slow.”
Twenty-tive—"Do call me up.”
Forty-tive—"Nice mans.”
Fiity-five—Sweet daddy.”

—Exchange.

Late to bed,
And early to rise,
Keeps my roommate
From wearing my ties.
—E-xchange

It’s You
(The Forester)

If you want to have the kind of school
Like the kind of school you like
You needn't slip your clothes in a grip
And try every school in the sight.

You'll tind what you left behind,
For there's none that’s really better,
It's a knock at yourself when you knock

One great factor in the success of the past
Junior Speaking of 1923 was the number
of girls on the hill, The following is a

| list of the visiting girls:

Pi Kappa Alpha
| Misses Ruth Nuckols, Mary Mills Ham,
‘Sarah Jamison, Catherine Shelton, Jane
Gilmer, and Mary Spier of Charlotte, N. Cy
Miss Lois Rogers of San Antonio, Texas,
Miss Marjorie. McLeod of Maxton, N. c.,
Misses Mildred Morrison and Mildred Leak
of Greensboro, N. C., Misses Mary Agnes
| Funderburk and Hortense Cobb of Lan-
caster, S. C., Miss Jean Martin of David-
son, N. C., Miss Dorothy Pilkinton of Char-
lottesville, Va.
Beta Theta Pi
Misses Rutledge Dudley, Kathryn New-
son, Edith Gilchrist, Mildred Shepherd, Ro
berta Walker, and Cornelia Wearn of Char-
lotte, N. C., Misses Ruth McMillan and Nell
Brawner of Atlanta, Ga., Miss Mary Oeland
‘of Spartanburg, S. C., Miss Mary Grier Poe
of Rock Hill, S. C., Miss Anabel Burke-
head of Opelika, Ala., Miss Ethel Battles
/of Rocky Mount, N. C., Miss Ellen Ram-
| sey of Salisbury, N. C.
Kappa Alpha
Misses Mary Lee Nuckols, Eileen John-
son and Elizabeth Mather of Charlotte, N.
'C., Misses Virginia Loving and Marion Gar-
| rett of Hollins, N. C., Miss Catherine Can-
|naday of Decatur, Ga., Miss Lucille Sherrod
|of High Point, N. C., Miss Lula Stockard
of Raleigh, N. C., Miss Dorothea Garrell of
| Winston-Salem, N. C., Miss Sally Cruik-
shank of Spartanburg, S. C., Miss Frances
| Jeffries of Rocky Mount, N. C., Miss Em-
|mie Henny of Gastonia, N. C.
Y Kappa Sigma
Misses Mary Keesler and Henry Landis
of Charlotte, N. C., Misses Dorothy Merri-
man and Elizabeth Armstrong of Greens-
boro, N. C., Miss Adelaide Harris of Con-
cord, N. C., Miss Nina Holt White, of Da-
vidson, N. C.,-Mis8$Lillian Thompson of
Hamlet, N. C., Miss Louise Clinton of
3oise, Idaho, Miss Katherine Newberry of
tionolulu, Hawaii, Miss Jean Lampton of
Magnolia, Miss., Miss Hannah Lilly of Fay-
etteville, N. C., Miss Elizabeth Mallory of
Murfreesboro, Tenn., Miss Dell Bernhardt
of Lenoir, N. C.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Misses Faith Price and Laura Tillett of
Charlotte, N. C. Miss Lenoir Dryer of Bir-
mingham, Ala., Miss Rachel Carpenter of
Greenville, S. C., Miss Lois Mathieson of
Anniston, Ala., Miss Annie Earle Farmer of
Anderson, S. C., Miss Catherine Armstrong
of Greensboro, N. C., Miss Evelyn Goswick
|of Winston-Salem, N, C., Miss Margaret
| Elliot of Columbia, S. C., Miss Gilder Wiley
of Lancaster, S. C.
: Bachelor’s Club
Misses Charlotte Milstead, Helen Hardie,

solved, and the business department has been placed on a tanglible working basis. The! its bounds, and thus steps have been taken
paper, as a herald of the news of the campus and a promoter of Wildcat spirit and ideals | to make it a college-proposition, enabling it

Elsie Brown, Sarah Carson, Helen Crowell,
of Charlotte, N. C., Misses Katherine Gar-

your school
It isn’t the school—it’s you.

could hardly have been handled more efficiently.

The new staff steps into the editorial and reportorial arena with an appreciation for
the work done during the past year and with an inherited determination to make the
Davidsonian a sheet of which student and alumni will feel proud.

D

\

Junior Speaking has passed but its memory will long remain. The Junior Class gave |

to the student body the most brilliant and enjoyable social occasion in the history of

Davidson College. This statement is borne out by the oldest inhabitants of the village |

and those who have long been connected with the college.
D:
A GENESIS

There may be a slight feeling of awe among the students of the college as the student
body sets out on an absolute, positive policy of anti-hazing. It is true that an old tra-
dition, in one sense of the word, is being laidto its final resting place, never to be seen
again. Is the customary funeral sympathetic tear in order?

It is the part of everyone on the campus, and alumni, too, to regard the recent action
of the student body in the abolition of hazing, not as a melancholy demise. Rather, it is
the birth, the auspicious beginning, of a new tradition, which is the logical sequel to
the old custom rendered inadequate by the passing of years and the change of conditions.

It is a mistaken idea that the death of hazing is responsible for the slow decline of
school spirit during the past several years. It is true that they have come together, but
by no means are their hands joined. Hazing is dead, as dead as the nations of antiquity ;
but pop Be Spirit lives on.

D.

‘It smoulders beneath a wet blanket of transition, ready to break again into flame
when it catches its breath from the rapid growth of the student body and the policies

of the college. The old Wildcat Spirit should return next year, and it is returning this | §

year, with an accumulated momentum that will serve to keep it alive forever. .We have
diust | ourselves to the new conditions, with the result that the fighting spirit bias
and with it a new spirit

of cooperation and fraternity, whose very soul is anti-

|to function on an even larger basis.

| Bradford and Galloway have been selected
to operate the Press Bureau. Both of these.
/ students are experienced in this work, and |
| will continue this department along the same
| efficient and serviceable lines it has been
| conducted heretofore.

What’s Doing

Thursday, April 12th
7:15 P. M.—Eu. Society,
7:30 P. M.—Phi Society.
Friday, April 13th
10:00 P. M.—Reporter Club.

Saturday, April 14th
3:30 P. M. —Wake Forest vs. Wild-
cats.
Track Meet, N. C. State vs. Wildcats,
at Raleigh.
7.30 P. M.—Pola Negri, in “Bella
Donna.” .

Sunday, April 15th
10:00 A. M.—Volunteer Band.
10:00 A. M.—Ministerial Band.
1:00_A._M.—Church services.
:15 P. M.—Christian Endeavor Class.
:30 P. M.—Sunday. School.
115 P. M—“Y” service.

Monday, April 16th
:00 P. M.—S oph Banquet, .Charlote.
Tuesday, April 17th
:30 P. M.—Wofford vs. Wildcat.
P.. M.—Pandenic Society.
:00 P. M—Metrophilian Society.
300 P. M.—Queens College Dram-
- atic Club—Shearer Hall.

| Wednesday, April 18th
3:30 P. M.—Wofford vs. Wildcats.
9:00 P. M.—Bible Classes.

|
\

Dw me

You can’t expect when you do not try,
Good grades on your lessons to make,
You'll only flunk whne you uwaste
your time,
And your good record you'll break
If going to school doesn’t pay,
Look at it this way
It isn’t the school—it’s you when
everybody works and nobody shirks,
Your school will be what you want it to
be,
It isn't the school—it's you.

trouble: But to think without acting will
get you nowhere.

A Morning Prayer
Help me to be kind this day,
To all [ meet on life’s highway,
A cheery word and a pleasant smile,
Are little things but well worth while.

Boost

Boost- your-school,. boost your friend,
Boost the society you attend,
Boost the dormitory where you live,
Boost your class, no other will,
Boost the people round about you,
They can get along without you.
But success will quicker find them
If they know that you're behind them.
Boost for every forward movement,
Boost for every new improvement,
Boost the teacher for whom you labor,
Boost the classmate and the neighbor.
Cease to be a chronic knocker,
Cease to be a progress blocker,
If you'd make your school better
Boost it to the final letter, :

—Esxchange.

To act without thinking may get you into |

‘vine and Janie Howard of ‘Atlanta, Ga.,
Misses Mary Howe, Louise Lineberger and
Mary Lineberger of Belmont, N. C., Miss
Frances Robinson of Gastonia, N.’C., Miss
Margaret. McCullie of Greenville, S. C.,
Misses Mildred Henderson ‘and Margaret
Smith.of Winston-Salem, N. C., Miss Nancy
Burns of Wadesboro, N. C.,. Miss Laura
Alexander of Charlotte, N.C.
Delta Theta Chi

Misses Frances Partlow and Lorine
Brown of Charlotte, N. C., Miss Lula Mae
Smith of Statesville, N. C., Miss Ruby Hill
Devlin of Greenwood, S. C., Miss Marion
Wise of Lincolnton, N. C., Miss Mildred
Sherrill of Cornelius, N. C.

Pi Alpha Pi

Miss Elizabeth Laird of Charlotte, N. C.,
Miss Elizabeth Neel of Mooresville, N.
Miss Briswell Patterson of Littleton, N.
Miss Elizabeth Causey of Greensboro, N.
Miss Norma Carmel of Norlina, N.
Miss Candace Bryant of Charlotte, N.
Miss Wilda Shamhart of Greenville, N:
Miss Marion Shamhart of Greenville, N.
Miss Virginia Armstrong of Belmont, N.
Miss Zelma Paxton of Charlotte,.. N.

Non-Fraternity

Miss Dorothy Patterson of Lynchburg,
Va., Miss Claudine Krider of Salisbury, N.
C., Miss Lottie. Hand of Belmont, N. C.,
Miss Louise Patterson, Bedford, Va., Miss
Nell Marks of Augusta, Ga., Miss Laura
Barclay of Pittsboro, N. C., Miss Helen
Lemmond of Matthews, N. C., Miss Louise
_ Rogers of Charlotte, Miss Marguerite Wil-
;son of Stovall, N. C.
| . ————
| Heard in Advertising Class: “The pur-
| Pose of Wrigley’s advertising is to y put
| Wrigley’s gum on the map.”

Voice from the rear: “I thonsht-st-was
to put it in the map.”

