4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 29, 1923.

1
|

The DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

2922$2222SEBREREETREREEISIEEISEHESSSESESSSSEESENEESEEEBHEEEEOOSOSHEEERRE

OPEN FORUM

2s rn
THE EDITOR’S FAREWELL

It is with mingled feelings of joy and
sadness that we of the old staff bid fare-
well to our jobs on the old Davidsoniar
|The time has come for other men to take
our places and we must give way to them.

‘To all the varied and sundry contributors
| of ‘literary gems to the columns of the Open

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the, Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES uJ. | Forum we wish to extend our most heartfelt
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year. |thanks. You have striven nobly to put your

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00/ thoughts into words and your words into

$ . . : $ hom your
; Il not be published. | deeds. If only the ones to w
9. m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will no i) Iscathing satires were addressed had read

R. F DAVTRRON + 151050 ou Ratorin Ciel aot | them, what a different place Davidson would
. » BURINDs cee ees t in. or e Y
W. i. HESTON....Second Managing Editor itor |have been today. But you have all hurled
R. R. JONES........00006 Assignment Editor . . ditor | arrows into the air and they will all fall to
H. MAUZE.. --Athletic Editor . M. MORRIS... itor
& F. WILDMAN. Sint it) Mehadr We Zo Beounee itor! earth some day and blossom forth as the
7 M. COX. 000.63 sereseeee Exchange tor Neg tt

PRESS BUREAU | With these last few sad thoughts in our

W. Z. BRADFORD..........2.000005 emis ne Me F. GALLOWAY....... Assistant Manager inds we must surrender our columns. to|

pebentes }other hands and bid farewell to all. |

M + -C.-F. ARRINGTON, J. C. MINTER, J. A. | : |

APPLEBY, iM. MeINTOSIT, CLAUDE ee RATCHFORD, B. V. D. D

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT | GO OUT FOR BASEBALL |

R Hay; ih a Clete beapeou age oA a 5 Mivenising eattsltcts - |
las 2 J. He » G. E, WE W. G. ses . Advertisin | oomp, Pepe ie: anaes ‘ k .

JAMES McCURCHEN. ». 7.67, Ofice Assistant i. J. BOSCH. Advertising Copy, ‘The baseball season’ has begun. The

ore pora saat on Sueur rats Sorel ys ENT Set rere | school year of 1922-23 is drawing to a close. |

WATT McCAIN " irda yet lead eateries OMPSON....Asst. Circulation Mer. | Already we have completed our football and |

T McCAIN........ Circulation Manager J. A. soso . ‘| haaleetball: weneailesre These “two sports|

|1oom only in the realm of memory |

’ | ; |

REP Oo R T E R SS) Cc L U B Perhaps you were, not satisfied with the

BROWN, W. P., Pres, McILWAINE, C. M. ERICK, R. L. | results of Davidson's athletics so far this |

surrey § Ke yA Marve 4 ew: WALTHAUE, iy B. year. Probab(y there are none that feel |

ALLISON, 0. J. MOFFENT, A... WHarton p c entirely well pleased with their outcome. To

SARNESTY sl yoork i WHITE, H. M. ithese and to all of us it would be well to

GALLOWAY, W. F. FOMERG oleh L. WILLIAMS, J. M. | say, “Did you do your part to make things |

|go? Were you a booster or a knocker and}
g y |

; eet ' Past >—A pessimist on the sidelines?” |
Junior Speaking is here in full blast and we hope that all are enjoying the occasion ites eae we Haveopood material’ for. a|

to the fullest. To the Juniors we are indebted for some of the best and most originally |hard working, smooth running team, ‘They |

gotten up entertainments-that have ever been put on here during such a function, We take are going to do all that they can to win
off our hats to them this time. The next big event on our social calendar will be Com- their games. They are willing to gladly

mencement! While we are having such good Speaking, let’s all plan to be here Com-  SiV¢ their all for old Davidson. So lets get
{behind them and &ncourage them by every-
feudal) Usiey jone going to all the games he can. We,
haven't let loose and cheered half as loud
At last the new addition to the Church is completed, and it looks extremely attractive, |, We could yell this year. : ear
er: ' ; he slogan that we need this Spring is|

All are now within better hearing distance and all have comfortable seats. The Sunday |

|Win or lose, our team’. No matter how
morning services should be among the most pleasant and profitable of our college exercises. | sorry a man may play on the team always

D

{remember that he’s doing better than you |
=a | could do in his place, if not you ought to be |

BASEBALL | trying out for his Place, Let's try to keep |

| this in mind and give our team some real

.old time support this Spring.

The baseball team is just beginning its 1923 season. Coach Currie’ charges have | —CHESTNUT.

been working hard and faithfully to turn out a team that will add to our laurels on the! ——__D———_

diamond, and they have a man’s-size job before them. A number of the college teams in | COMMON COURTESY |

the state promise to be very efficient machines this spring, but we all want to see our}

“Friends, Romans, Countrymen, lend me

; ; ; | A A h
nine take a reating place among them when the season is cree: is neenber of our men livour: ears, (Snare: but afew. moitients of|
are new and untried and they may take a few games to hit their stride. In any case, your precious time and give earnest heed to

these players aren’t going to perform at their top speed unless they can feel that the| these plaintive notes.

student body is behind thém whatever happens. Let's all get out and do our best to give; As you all well know we have but poor
them this feeling. It will bring success quicker than anything else. |accommodations for our weekly picture
| shows. We have to be crowded together |
jin a room not intended to hold such num- |
i bers. There has of late been an increase
|in the thoughtlessness of some of the stu-
{dent body which has spread to the younger
| town boys as well.

T).

T).

THE HAZING ISSUE

For several months the question of abolishing hazing has been before the student ‘ ;
body, and the Court of Control has been on trial as an institution to take the place of all ite one thing the amount of smoking is
hazing at Davidson. In our opinion there is nothing that could be better for Davidson than | still" annoyitigyto) the ladies that are prepeiit |

None of you would think of

}at each show.
smoking in a public theatre in Charlotte or

that when this question comes before the student body for final decision that the change |
that has been made for a time be put in as a permanent thing. Quite a great amount of |anywhere else in a picture show. We have |
discussion on this subject has taken place, and yet too much cannot be said in favor of | been reminded and requested so many times
a move that means so much to the future of the college. here to refrain from smoking during the
Particularly those of us who are leaving Davidson this year, and can look at the shows that it is hardly worth while Uo Mae

: - : | tion it again other than to say thatitis only a

matter from an impersonal viewpoint, feel that no greater mistake could be made than) atter of common courtesy due to .the
that by not backing this Court of Control, we should allow it to fail of passing. There-| ladies of the faculty and the town.
fore in this last issue of the paper under the present staff, we wish to beg of all the | Another objectionable feature that has
students that they consider this matter carefully, in an impersonal way, and as men Tecently been increasing at. our shows is the!

desiring to do whatever is for the best interests of Davidson, within the college and before | number of indecent remarks at times in the

signe R GEE
DAVIDSON FIVE
YEARS AGO

SEEESSEEEEREEEITESSISSSESEEEEIESHESSbOUOEEEEttESS

EXCHANGE

After the clouds of bewilderment that
were occasioned by the storm of enthusi-
| astic eloquence and forensic fury engendered
in Shearer Hall last Friday and Saturday

| i that the follow-
€) | cleared away, it was learned v ;
| ing Juniors had won “Reps”: for the Phi

| Society, W. M. Currie, R. B. Peters and R.

A man was hired to carry hardware out| D, Hall, alternate; for the Eu Society, E.
of a ship onto a wharf. As he crossed the | Flinn, A. S. Potts with P. B. Carwile as
plank with two small anvils, one under each | alternate. :
arm, the plank broke and he went down into} Saturday afternoon Davidson wound up
the water. He came up and shouted for a/her very successful season of Basket Ball
rope, but no one heard him. He went down| by defeating Clemson Tigers 37 to 22. Of
and came up the second and third time, and | the 37 points made by Davidson, Hengeveldt
the last time he appeared he said, “If some! accounted for 20.
one doesn’t throw me a rope pretty soon I'll} Saturday night the Orchestra and Glee
drop one of these anvils!”— Spectator. | Club gave an excellent concert before an
{unusually large and appreciative audience.

Bridegroom—“That man is the ugliest) The eighteen selections were all well given
person I’ ever saw. 'and brought forth much applause. The first

Bride—Hush, dear, you forget yourself—| selection was “The Star Spangled Banner”
Royal Gaboon. by the entire company.

At the concert the “D”s were awarded to
those men who had won Basket Ball letters
this spring. Those receiving letters were:
| Hengeveldt, D and three stars; King, D and
two stars, and D’s with no stars to McAl-
lister, McCaskill and Angle.

After the Concert a delightful reception
| was given by the faculty to the Juniors and
their guests, the Seniors and the Orchestra
and Glee Club.

Last week in the State Normal in Greens-
boro Davidson won a higher honor when her
debating team met the LaFayette team and
,came off victorious. It was a clean victory
from a worthy opponent and one of which
Davidson is justly proud. The subject of
cook hasn't killed it yet, but she has got in a the debate was, Resolved, That the success-
couple of nasty blows.—Yale Record. ful prosecution of the war requires that all
: citizens of Germany, Austria, Bulgaria and

QUITE ACI Turkey now residing in the United States be

Meenister: I hear they’ve gone dry in the interned until _ Peace is secured. Davidson
village where your brother lives. upheld the affirmative.

Sandy: Dry! Man, they’ve gone parched.
I’ve: just had a letter from Tom, and the
postage stamp was stuck on wi’ a pin—
Reyecto.

Gather your kisses while you may,
Time brings only sorrow;
For the flappers who flap so free today,
Are the chaperones of tomorrow.
—Pitt Panther.

“While you were abroad I suppose you
saw great expanses of barren waste.”

“Man, I was in Europe, not Hawaii’—
Pelican,

Don’t eat too many Easter eggs!

(Guest, at country club): Where is that
chicken I ordered an hour ago?

Waitress: It'll be here soon, sir. The

’

The Day Light Saving Law went into
effect last Sunday morning at 2 o’clock. As
}a result drill in the afternoon will be
changed from 4:10 to 5:10 and supper
changed from 6.30 to 7 o'clock.

—

Raudom Thoughts of a Vagrant Mind or
Lines from a Chapel Notebook
Well, the faculty cut chapel again today.

It must be great to be a man, all grown;
up and everything, and not have to go to

About this time the custom of sounding
a bugle call at 6 A. M. (Day light saving
|time) was instituted to summon the men to

| chapel. nae }early morning drill. How it was received
Four men are detected singing the words by the Student Body may best be judged
|of a hymn. |

{from the spirit of the following article
which appeared in the Forum column.

There has come a request that something
|be said about that infernal machine that
goes off in the morning about six o'clock.
The lights go off at 11:15, which necessi-
|tates that we go to bed with the chickens,
| but there is no reason for getting up with
them. If everyone took Drill this “Can't
|get ’em up etc.” would be different. But
| there are quite a number of men who do not
drill and cannot sleep after the bell rings.
Before this unfortunate time there was
only one rising bell for chapel—there was
no bugle. This is no militry school. If a
student can get up for Chapel by a bell why
can’t he get up for drill by a bell? This
thing of bringing a tin horn around and
raising the dead is unnecessary, The bell is
sufficient and the Hendrixion postlude ex-
ceeds the point of satiety. We are not Edi-
_sons and don’t want to be, for we enjoy our
extra hour in the arms of Morpheus.
| . A Disciple of Morpheus.
And two weeks later—
The Davidsonian,

Beda Becker seems to have won a dollar
from John Bebout on the time the prayer |
took. : |

Funny there was no announcement about
whom the rifle team shot today.—Tarquin.

She took my hand in sheltered nooks,
She took my candy and my books,
She’ took that lustrous wrap of fur,
She took those gloves I bought for her.
She took my words of love and ‘care,
She took my flowers, rich and rare,
She took my ring with tender smile,
She took my time for quite a while.
She took my kisses, maid so shy—
(She took, I must confess, my eye) —
She took whatever I would buy,
And then she took another guy.
—Berry News.

Grab ’Em Young
If you love me, tay tow,
If you don’t love me, tay tow;
If you love me, tweeze my hand;
But don’t keep me titting on these told
steps Fe

s : ; ” | Pictures and the yelling that goes on when; Aj nite long. I'll freeze to deff. Editor of the Forum.
the public. We feel that all who face the problem thus, will agree with us in supporting | anything in the least bit out of the way takes Cony, Dear Sir:.
the Court of Control. place. This is almost altogether a matter pee In a late copy of your newspaper I note
D |of thoughtlessness.. You must stop and an article raving upon the horrors of an

| think how embarrassing it is to some of the |
ladies sometimes. ome of them have actu-|
‘ally stopped coming on that, account. |

This issue is the last that the present staff of the Davidsonian will be called upon to | Fellows, let's think about these things end]
blish. After this th RR Nhaw ens in Who Have eek oho | then decide to cut them out. We are all’
pu » ie paper wi in the hands of the new men who have been chosen | proud of the name and ideals of a Davidson |

to succeed us in office. The work that we have done during the. past year has not, we| man. Let’s' make that name worthwhile. |

TO OUR SUCCESSORS

Use Your Own Judgement

. 5 early morning bugl H
Now adays almost any girl will give you z 6 basic and the deletti of an

Weevaicgs extra hour “in the arms of Morpheus”. In
sses, etc. reply I wish to say that while I have a bad
those does the etc. stand for? : |Teputation for being a sleepy-head, I have
oy Ai ied she will stand for.”—Center never objected to other people getting up
college Center. ‘and working. Especially do I want it un-
derstood that I am in no way opposed to

hope, been without result in helping to give to the Davidson students and alumni a college
paper in which they will finé much interesting and perhaps instructive reading matter, and
of which they may be justly proud when it is compared with other college publications of
While there was a large field to be covered, we have tried to perform our tasks as

best we could. For aid and support that our friends have given the paper and given us,
we gratefully thank them, and hope to see the incoming staff receive all this with addi-
tions. To our successors, then, we turn over the management of the paper with the
* earnest hope that they may take up the work where we have left off, and build a bigger

We will enjoy the shows just as much and
others will enjoy them much more if we
only observe the commonest rules of decency
and _ politeness. .

Just one other thing. If you see any}

other boy, whether he is a college boy or
not, violating any of these requests of the
Y. M. C. A., just ask him to cut it out. All
of us should take a pride in this.

—A Davidsonian.

T).

“Now I sit me down to sleep;

I hope my chum my notes will keep.

If I should snore before I wake

Do poke me in the ribs for pity’s sake.”

| Military Training at Davidson nor to any
| methods that may be used to get men up to
|an early morning drill. I think it is im-
|Punging on my loyalty and Patriotism to
|hint that I am. Hence I wish to deny that
| the said gentleman is any disciple of mine.
| I have never instructed any of my disciples
| to make any such protest as he has done.’
Trusting that this explanation will remove
any unjust calumny that may have attached

A Ford is like a school room
For if you look you'll find
It has a stubborn crank in front
And a bunch of nuts behind.
Dp

20,

‘and better paper upon the foundations already laid. We feel sure that they can’ well|
ofit by our mistakes and failures, and while there lies ahead of them a year of work,
will make it a year of profitable service for the improvement and further devel-

Alki Jones: Hurd, if you say that again
I'll wring your neck.

Hurd: You can’t wring my neck.
made of rubber.

It’s

Speaking-of bad breaks in newspapers,
the following was noticed in an old issue
of one of the prominent papers: “The bri-
dal party will enter the drawing decorated
with wax berries and chrysanthemums.”

itself to my name by the action of this ill-,
advised gentleman in claiming to be my!
disciple, I am,

_ Very truly yours,
