4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 15, 1923

THE DAVIDSONIAN TIGERS TAKE ADVANTAGE |
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

(Continued from page 1)

from Robinson to Finklea, Williams hit right |
tackle for the first touchdown. Robinson |
failed to kick goal. Robinson kicked off over |
the goal line and the quarter ended with the |
| ball in Davidson's possession on their own
| 20-yard line.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College | Davidson ran three successful plays, but
sas _.| failed to annex the “necessary yardage and

| Was forced to punt. Clemson put the ball

__ in’ play on their own 47-yard line and ad-
| vanced to within striking distance on line
iplays by Williams and Walker. © Robinson
__ | attempted a field goal from Davidson's 30-
yard line, but Faison knocked the ball down
jand recovered it on Davidson’s 25-yard line.
' The Wildcats were unable to gain through
jthe Tiger line and punted. Clemson was
| forced to punt and Hendrix fumbled a long
jone from Robinson's toe and Clemson recov-
fered on Davidson's 25-yard line. A short
, pass and several line plays netted first down

ice of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

Entered at the Post Off

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
p. m. Monday.. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

LISTON D.. ELKINS.
REGINALD L. PRICE

.-----Editor-in-Chief
---Business Manager

Editorial Staff
C. M. S. McILWAINE...----Managing Editor

, A, LAKE.....-Assistant M ing Edit ...-Associate Editor ; re /
ii. B. PRICE Road etait Managing Editor .-Associate i ELs on Davidson"s 12-yard line. Here the Da-
We FG AnuOW Ayes Se Athletic Editor at Ge Eaitee| vidson forwards tightened and held Clemson

Peanut Parcher Editor r
; After an ex-
fumbles the

| for downs on the 5-yard line.
|change of punts and several

J. R. BRIGGS .--Advertisin . ---Subscription | half ended with the ball in Davidson's pos-
R. W. OEL. Advertising LL .-Bookkceper : : : f sr . teens
P. J. STORY Subscription A. M. HURD_.-.-...------Service Department | Session on their own 20-yard line.

J. M, GARRISON. _.-.---------------- Assistant The third quarter found the teams playing
7 even for first honors, Play was pretty much-
ly in mid-field until Hendrix fumbled a punt
and Garrison recovered for Clemson on the
Wildcats’ 9-yard line. Faison threw Harmon
| for a 10-yard loss on an attempted end run.
Robinson's second attempt at drop-kicking

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT
J. A. THOMPSON, Assistant Manager |

CLUB

WATT McCAIN, Manager

REPORTERS’

WALTHALL, D. B., Pres.

PITTS, B
WHARTON, D. B., Vice-I REGAN, E

Lb 4
BE. K.

*res,

PATTON, J. H., Sec'y-Treas. ROGERS, G._D. fell short and Davidson took the ball on

ALLISON, O. J : SELSE M bh

APPLEBY, I. M, ate nth’ : }their 20-yard line. Davidson failed to gain
_ S. Shore Hb Ua and) punted, Wells recovering Robinson's ,

| fumble on Davidson's 43-yard line.

|’ Davidson's only threat came at the begin-
}ning of the fourth quarter. The recovery of
fa fumble gave Davidson the ball in mid-field.
After a 10-yard loss on an attempted end
run, Hendrix uncorked a pass to Shepherd
{for 15 yards. The Wildcats were forced to
} punt, but Harmon fumbled and Davis recov-
for Davidson Clemson's 30-yard

WILLIAMS, J. M.

EDITORIAL

A WARM WELCOME

The Davidsonian and Davidson welcome the delegates of Gamma line, On an end run and off-tackle play
Sigma Epsilon to the Hill, Every student of Davidson feels a peculiar | Wells advanced the ball to Clemson's 19-yard
interest in this organization by virtue of the fact that it was founded at line, but Clemson held here and the ball went
Davidson, and because of the rapid progress it has made in the honorary | over It was the closest” Davidson came to |
fraternal circles. To you, members of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, the gates of | Clemson's goal line.
Davidson are opened wide. We desire that you consider yourselves as| The Tigers, with outpunting
much at home as though you were in your own respective institutions, and; Shepherd and Walker leading: the line at-|
yet we wish to make you feel that you area welcome guest and that you | tek, advanced the ball to Davidson's 1-yard
occupy the guest chamber, 2 A line, where they were held for downs.
‘ a | Vance’s exceptional work in the line account- |
‘of Gamma Sigma fed for the Clemson aggregation not going

lover for a touchdown at this point. Shep- |
{herd punted out to Harmon, who returned
the ball to the 20-yard line. Successful

ered on

Robinson

_ Davidson is honored in receiving the delegates
Epsilon in their national convention,
D

While Davidson is entertaining the collegiate chemists from every |... r
quarter of the South, Trinity is welcoming the college editors of North SUIS ECE OS UB Vy Cees EB
Carolina, Past experiences have crowned Trinity as a host royal and the lee eV vey UaUNG AWC eet ie ae
scribblers of ‘the state will no doubt remember the Trinity convention for a | 10" three downs, only to be carried over
bunch of time to come. i ? on the fourth by W alker, Robinson failed to
kick goal. Clemson, 12; Davidson, 0.

Robinson kicked over the goal line. Da-
vidson failed to gain and punted. The game |
ended-after Harmon recovered the fumbled |
punt and made first down in two plays on
end runs,

D

Doing the commonplace thing

_ Doin; : s well is an attribute of great men.
Nothing is too small for the big man ‘

D
THE OLD FAITH

: The November issue of The World’s Work, leading recorder of
opinions on topics of world-wide interest, carries a letter in its editorial | century mark with his long spirals. Both
section from Dr. W. J. Martin, president of Davidson College, under the}teams fumbled six times, but Clemson held
heading The Church and Our Colleges. The letter occupies the larger por-|the edge on Davidson in recovering their
tion of a page of printed matter, and deals in its entirety with the stand | fumbles, and this bad playing on Davidson's
the Davidson College faculty and student body have taken in regard to | part had as much to do with losing the game |
matters of belief in the Divinity of Christ. : as Clemson's good playing. True it was
Robinson's educated toe that kept the ball in
Davidson's territory and gave Clemson the
vadyantage in this manner.

Robinson's phenomenal punting and: the
bad fumbling of both teams was outstanding, |

Robinson averaged well around the half-

Dector Martin points out in his letter that the entire faculty of the |
college, including twenty-seven instructors in sciences, languages, and
other subjects ; and the student body of 575 men is without an exception an Ba :
orthodox body, He stresses the point, that in view of recent attacks on the __Villiams and Walker were the outstanding
Divinity of Christ and other doctrines of the orthodox churches, Davidson | Sou" Bellies iat ties nikoh aeareeation!
College is proud of the stand its students and teachers have taken, pul m@il die some excebbonal: endl rudning:
orthodox churches, Davidson College is proud of the stand its students and Dus ie Sons Were Wven ob aet by Jue tumbling:
teachers have taken. j 5 ; Coach Younger displayed his latest develop-

: ee : ments in Vance and AVells, two men playing
S, ie i the helief of ene) adaunietrative officers | the varsity game for their first season and
¢ qd in the large increase in the number of students | showing up to exceptional form. Vance was
entering the college. A statement of the orthodoxy of the college is being | in tie Ayer na pe fia a et in
used in full-page advertisements in the leading newspapers of the South, | breaking through the line and. getting
in contrast with figures secured through a questionnaire recently mailed to! man things might have been worse for
professors in other institutions. These figures reveal the fact that. a/ fighting Wildcats.
majority of the American college instructors to which the questionnaire | stellar work at end
was sent are either disbelievers in
definite views on the question.

This stand, he states
of the college, resulte

his

the

was doing his

ctor 1 Lindamood sprung into

the Divinity of Christ, or they have no | the limelight at frequent intervals with ex-
ceptional tackles,

Faison

May Davidson stand fast in the old faith of the fathers! Line-up and summary follow: tee see
D /Clemson (12) Position, Davidson (0) || See
| Garrison Se ee ean eeee eres Saree HAISON ROY caso oe oop ee eee ee Shepherd|
BILLY GOODYKOONTZ Right End | Right Half |
: (BED co ce ce os as es ce cs Mine: valke ells
The sympathy of every Davidson man is extended to H. G, Goody-| sien ight Tackle pees j AS ces fn bee
Baont Aine nan at y Right Tackle Left Half
ontz, member of the Freshman class, in his sad bereavement. The fol- | Jackson -_ -- -- -- Vance | Williams Black |
lowing clipping from the Charleston (W. Va.) Gazette, of November 11th, | TG oe — Sree
Pee ee: 1 Y0 UNAvo / v _Alth, | Right Guard Fullback
‘ y of the sad death of Billie Goodykoontz, of Bluefield, W. Va., | Wentz Ficlds| Touchdowns: Williams 1, Walker 1
young brother of the Davidson student: “Billy Godyk z - a eee nent eaten ep
t lied f : yy r10dykoontz, aged four- | Center Substitutions: | Clemson — Harmon for |
een years, died early tonight at a local hospital from Injumes Sustained||Wilson _. __ _- 22 -- -- _- __ _- __ Lone] Warker; Walker for Harmon; Harmon for
this afternoon in a football game between the Presbyterian and Baptist Lett Guard eee Williams: Tee for Roy,” Davidson—
Church boys. Young Goodykoontz was a member of the former organiza-| Strother Laird |4 f Cc tj Aaderson for Latrdy Balk
Ge is death Tua FeO R f i; f : S -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Laird |-Long for Cox; Anderson tor Laird; Baker
s the first fatality from football in Bluefield. He Packle is; Covi f ells
waeth sf the 1 ig Left Tackle for Davis; Covington for Wells; Hunt for
€ son of the late John Goodykoontz, a former official of the Norfolk Finklea Davis | Covington; Lewis for L
and*Western Railroad.” ee ira: ee mctiiee area CMahate
Peo ar weet i j Left End Reteree. Street (Auburn).
Billy visited Davidson but two weeks ago, and had already formed a| Robinson -. -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Hendrix} Umpire: Parish (Erskine).
love for-his big brother’s school. ” L Quarter - | Headlinesman: Major (Clemson).

1

long trips.

| they did not arrive in time.

{through the college publications,

Exchanges |
|
|
P 4 C 4 — EXCHANGES — Box Hd |

(It is our purpose to put into this column |
items of interest selected from the various
college publications. There is much that we |
could include here, but our space is limited. |
If you wish to know more about other insti- |
tutions, read the exchanges in the parlor of
West Dormitory.)

The management of the intercollegiate de-
hating at Wofford this year has been taken
from the debating council and turned over to
the Pi Kappa Delta honorary forensic fra-
ternity. This fraternity is composed of men
who haveerepresented Wofford on debating
teams. Their schedule promises to be a
good one, although it has not been definitely
arranged as yet—Old Gold and Black

The attention of all uppreclassmen is called

}to the rule in effect at William and Mary

that there shall be no hazing, This rule will
be strictly enforced. To avoid any trouble
that may arise, the Discipline Council asks
the co-operation of the entire student body |
in the enforcement of this rule—/‘lat //at.
Many of the University of Florida’ stu-
dents hoboed to Atlanta to see the Ga, Tech-
Florida game. The majority of them that
took their chance on the highway. Their

| Success in this latter depended largely upon

their ability to patch tires, procure gas, and
clean spark plugs.—The Technique.

Notre Dame's football team does not suf-
fer in its class room work because of its ,
The squad includes a corps of}
professors and regular recitations are held
on all their trips—-The Emory Wheel,

Pep was revived at the University of Tex-
as last week in a rather interesting manner,
At’a pep meeting a famous contortionist
stated that he would free himself from any

)six men who would volunteer to hold him. ,

He also said that six students from Texas
A and M had held him twenty one minutes.
A and M is the deadly enemy of the Univer-
sity and six men immediately took hold of |

, the contortionist and with the Determination

to hold him twenty-two minutes. Altho they.
only held him nineteen minutes the college |
spirit, which had been declining, was very
much revived by the contest—The Daily
Texan.

An average of seventy-five is required of
all students at West Virginia University for |

| graduation, according to a new faculty rul-

ing. Seventy is the passing mark but the
average must be seventy-five for the four
years course.—The Flat Hat.

Wake Forest is planning to make its ath-

|letic field the most beautiful part of its cam- |

pus. With this idea in view they intend to |
surround the field with maple trees. The |

trees were to be set out on Labor Day but |
However, when |

the trees are secured, a half holiday will be |”

granted for the purpose of planting them. — |
Old Gold and Black. H
|
The Emory man respects customs and |
Not the cold dead rut of the. past, |
But profits by the experience of his fathers. |

—The Emory Wheel |

|
The recent death in our student body has |
been a means of showing us just how many |
friends we did have. The Blue Stocking |
wishes to thank all the other publications for |
the kind remarks that they have made!

{through their columns regarding the death |

of our fellow member, Carey Brown, The !
Gamecock showed a very beautiful spirit in
publishing black bordered column in memory
of Brown, also did the Old Gold and Black
in their sympathetic editorial. These remarks |
together |
with the many telegrams and letters of sym-
pathy sent the student body, go to show tha
there certainly does exist an amiable spirit |
of fraternity among the educational institt- |

tionsof South Carolina—The Blue Stock- |

|G. S. E. HOLDS NATIONAL CON-

{in the state.

ton.
| putations at any time on notice from Mr.

; ment.

| extension.

STUDENTS TO AID IN
NEAR EAST RELIEF WORK

Several Davidson men will fill important
places in the Near East Relief Campaign
which will be conducted in this state just af-
ter New Year this winter. Mr. Beall of
Charlotte is state manager, and it is his plan
to conduct the campaign from January 1,
through the college year, sending out speak-
ers for the week-ends to all important places
He has asked for help from
the Davidson students and many have re-
sponded, There was a meeting of those in-
terested some time ago, and the following are
to go to Charlotte Nov. 30, Dec. 1, for a two-
day course of instruction in the campaign
purposes, plans, and methods: H. M. White,
D. B. Wharton, A. P. Hudgin, J. H. Davis,
D. B. Walthall, P. J. Story and T. A. Gui-
These men are to go on week end de-

Beall.

These men without doubt some of our
best speakers, have responded to the call and
will render valuable service in the campaign.
There is still chance for others to help in
this if they are interested in the work. Mr.
Williams and H. M, White are in charge of
the work, and anyone interested can see
them, This is another chance for Davidson
men to add to Davidson's reputation for sery-
ice to Christ, State, and community.

STUDENTS AID GREATLY IN
FINISHING GRIDIRON

Soon after the present session began the
offer was made to the student body to allow
them to work at 25 cents an hour, in complet-
ing the new athletic field. It was accepted
immediately by over a hundred students dur-
ing the first two weeks.

This work lasted until the later part of
October but the amount of extra work avail-
able to students became constantly less as
the field neared completion, Due to this
fact the number of students taking advan-
tage of the work became smaller cach day.

J. D. Laws had charge of the student pay
roll and his records show the following fig-
ures:

At the end of the first week 135 students
were paid for work done and the total
amount paid was $240.35. During the fol-
lowing two weeks the number of  studerts
working fell to 105 and the amount paid to,
$168.42, In the last two weeks work was
very scarce and only 52 men found employ-
The payroll this time amounted to
only $67.00, Adding up these figures it can
be seen that the total amount paid was
$475.77 and that this was paid to 292 men,
which averages $1.63 per man.

PROF. FOREMAN TALKS TO
MINISTERIAL BAND

At the weekly meeting of the Ministerial
Band last Sunday it was addressed by Pro-
fessor Foreman. He gave an inspiring talk
on the 18th verse of 1 Samuel, 16.
Professor Foreman brought out the sig-
nificance of cach trait of David's character
to the ministerial student. | David was first
spoken of as a man winning in playing. This
was David's hobby. Every minister should

jalso have a hobby to refresh his mind and

soul.

David was a mighty valiant man. He was
a strong and healty specimen of manhood,
Also every, preacher who expects to do his
best for God must have a vigorous body.

David was a man of war, Thus a minister
must fight the forces of evil in the world.

Professor Foreman emphasized the fact
that David was a comely person. This was
a reference, not to his physical beauty, but to
the glory which radiated from his face, be-
cause of his internal contact with God.

At the conclusion of 1 Sam. 16 are the
words, “and the Lord was with him,” as he
will be with every person who has such a
character, Professor Foreman brought out
the fact that this description of David was
when he was a young man. He changed
somewhat later on in his life.

VENTION

(Continued from page 1)
fraternity, both in matters of intension and
Although the names have not
yet been announced, it is understood that

pthe convention has petitions for chapters

from-five prominent institutions to act upon.

Delegates are expected from Johns Hop-
kins University, University of Florida, North
Carolina State College, and Alabama Poly-
technic Institute (Auburn).

‘Members of the local chapter in college
at this time are: W. M. Cox, R. R. Jones,
Marion Murray, G. M. Ford, W. Z. Brad-
ford, J. M. Williams, J. E. Singletary, J. B:
Gallant, and A. M. Sample.
