a

G+: THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 3, 1923 i

The DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF *15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class,

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
o. m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.
EDITORIAL STAFF
L, D. ELKINS, Editor-in-Chief,
W. Z. BRADFORD, Managing Editor.

- CM. S. McILWAINE, Asst. M'n'g’g Editor WMS COX scion cect ees Associate Editor
H, B. PRICE...... sst. Managin itor A. C. WILDMAN itor
W. F. GALLOWAY «1... ‘Athletic. Editor J. A. LAKE. ...... tor
W. M. HESTON,,..... Peanut Parcher Editor O. J. ALLISON .. ditor

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT
# R, Tice Business Manager
Circulation $'

CEL y P. J. STORY
SSISTANTS
W. H. CROMWELL

Subscription Manager

G. A. McCLAIN
J. A. THOMPSON

REPORTERS’ CLUB

WALTHALL, D. B., Pres. CALHOUN, M. P. MONK, C. F,
WHARTON, D. B., V- EARNEST, J. R. POMEROY, W. L.
PATTON, J. H., Sec'y-Treas. GREEN, J. ‘i. ROGERS, G. D.
ALLISON, 0. HURD, ? SELSER, }. M.
AUSTIN, "JAC McMILLAN, J. A. SMITH, B. H.
nah xe 8 Ui Mie By

2 A. Y. ETT, A. N. VIO, 1, M.
BROWN, W. P. MOORE, W. H. WILLIAMS, JT. M.

“GO GET ’EM”

Two victories and a tie match in tennis, two. games out of three
in baseball, and a 3-0 debating victory is not a discouraging summary |
for the last week of April. The Wildcat teams are on their toes—|

are you backing them with the same spirit they are displaying? It |
“Go Get ’Em, Wildcats!” Let’s never lose the “
in the village, as student, as friend, as counselor, as coach and as a|
character will never be forgotten.

OUT IN THE OPEN

There is a one-horse sort of an organi-
zation that is supposed to be functioning
on the campus at present. “Supposed to
be functioning” is correct! The men
composing this group have shown them-
selves to be “off shoots of idiots.” They
are veritable shadows of men that are
“non compos mentis.”

In the first place they recognize no
right of privacy. Second, they have an
antagonistic viewpoint and are envious of
something they can never hope to attain.
The various owners of the benches on
the campus do not care to have their seats
marred with the insignificant symbols of
“Epicurean” painted on them.

If this bunch of underhand workers
would come out in the open and do their
work they might merit a little praise.
As it is it looks as if they were trying to

; Thursday, May 3rd.
8:30 P. M.—Davidson vs. Elon. at Elon
(baseball).

Chapel Hill.
7:15 P. M—Eu. Society.

Track team leaves for State Meet at)

AZINE ISS'
pet MAS WORK OF MERIT

The forthcoming issue of the David-
son College Magazine will have a re-
pleteness of sonnets, songs, and stories,
according to the statement of Editor-in-
Chief Cooper. Many new contributors
and an abundance of the very best type
of contributions necessitate a greater

7:30 P. M.—Phi. Society.
Friday, May 4th.
Baseball team returns from State trip.
|Preliminaries of State Track Meet at
| Chapel Hill.
10:00 P. M.—Reporters Club.
Saturday, May 6th.
Finals of State Track Meet at Chapel
Hill.
7:15 P. M.—Movies.
Moon.
Sunday, May 6th
10:00 A. M.—Volunteer Band.
10:00 A. M.—Ministerial Band.
11:00 A. M.—Church. Communion Ser-
vice.

imitate some worth while order such as
the “Golden Fleece” at. the University,
yet the concensus of opinion is that it is
a mighty poor imitation. You men that
compose this group brace up and come
out in the’ open before you have cause
to regret it.
(Signed) A. Stoic.

BETTER CHEERING

What of the way we choose our cheer
leaders? Have you ever thought that
possibly the most capable men were not
leading this particular Davidson activity?
And what of the importance of having the
right men in these important places?
Have you ever thought that there is ample
room for improvement in the cheering
system and in the cheering itself here
at Davidson?

Surely there is a better way of putting
the right men in these places, and it is
not in the. spirit of criticism but in the
hopes of bettering a system already
working well for the furtherment of Da-

1:15 P. M.—Christian Endeavor Class.
|3:30 P. M.—Sunday School.
/6:15 P. M.—Evening Service.

Monday, May 7th.

| Baseball team leaves for Virginia trip.

H Tuesday, May 8th.

18:30 P. M.—Davidson vs. University of
| Virginia at Charlottesville (baseball).
7:10 P. M.—Padeinic Society.

8:00 P. M.—Metrophilian Society.
Wednesday, May 9th
3:30—Davidson vs. V. M. I. at Lexington,

Va. (baseball).
9:30 P. M.—Bible Classes.

‘ eS ye
Wildcat Racqueteers Return
From Victorious Trip
(Continued From Page 1)

son. To the anxiously awaiting students

|of V. P. I., we are glad to report that a | °TS- x
| splendid impression was made on the, "te that more and more of the stu

Davidson representatives.
.At four o’clock that afternoon hostili-

Glimpses of the,

r of pages than has ever appear-

Bern gis since the very birth of
this organ which fills an indispensable
| place among the literary work on the
|campus. The’ readers are promised
| some good entertainment of a diversified
| nature in the issue which has already
| gone to press and. soon will appear.
| An_added interest in this issue is the
publication of four one-act plays writ-
ten by members of the Dramatic Club,
among them being the plays enacted by
the club during Junior Speaking. E. T.
Woolfolk and Harry K. Russell present
two rattling good plays, one a farce of
present-day life, and the other of a
more serious nature. “Uncle Tommy’s
Harem,” by W. F. Gallaway, is a scream
| from start to finish.

The short stories are up to the usual
standard of the D. C. M. and come from
| newcomers to the field of Davidson lit-
lerature. “Music,” by J. Elliott Haney,
!ig well developed and is modeled on the
‘mystery stories of Poe. “At the Sign
| of the Sturgeon’s Head” is a story play
reminiscent of the stirring days of the
Revolutionary War. It combines both
history and a good plot. “Love's Labor
Lost,” by Conrad Frederick Smith, is a
story of country life that incorporates
{much subtle humor along with the two
main characters.

Taken as a whole, this issue of the
'D. C. M. should present the best array

| inspecting the R. O. T. C. unit at David- |of fact and fiction that has ever ap-

| peared from the pens of Davidson writ-
| It is gratifying to the editors to

dents are taking interest in the work of
the magazine and are contributing to

| vidson spirit that this suggestion is sub-
y | mitted,
Davidson has stepped into the front rank among the schools of! fetter than nominating a few men

the nation where an R. O. T. C. unit is maintained. As a result of the! who are generally liked on the campus,

isn’t a one-sided game—it’s a game meant for every man who calls

Go Get ’Em” spirit. |

T). : |

worthy exponent of Davidsonian qualities. His place will not be easily |
T).

himself Wildcat. We've discarded the “Hold ’em, Wildcats!” It’s
Buck Currie leaves Davidson in a ‘short time, after five years spent |
filled; his work will seldom be surpassed; his smile and his resolute

ties began out on the courts, and began it more freely. In addition eae snore
rather disastrously for Davidson, who | rata bhpeiae Ciiiays oar, “a
dropped three of the four single matches, | ©: ‘V8'tnall, Wy. XU. ’

i . K. Russell
Davidson had to have both double match-. Woolfolk, L. D. Elkins, A Ls d Toa :
es to tie the count. The count was tied. Orig He TR Mnicay Waive Senecveai a che

recent inspection at the hands of the Fourth Corps Area officers, the,
local unit has been included in‘ the list of distinguished colleges.
It is true that Davidson is not a military school in any sense of |
the word. It is a school of preparedness—preparedness for service |
to the nation in time of crisis, as well as
pursuits of life. :
The maintenance at Davidson of a military organization,
merits honorable recognition in the higher military circles, is one o
many indications that the Presbyterian college is filling her place in
the field of preparation. \

D.

The R. O. T. C. has its place in the nation-wide movement to “win!
the world from war.” The old pacifist idea that this organization was|
founded to promote warfare and international hostility has been)
abandoned even by the “peace at any cost” element. There is no!
organization in the nation which.does more for the prevention of war)
and for the spread of the “Peace on earth, good-will among men” |
doctrine. It deserves your support. |
T).

but of whose ability as’ cheer leaders
nothing is known, why not hold a tryout
each year and let the men best adapted
for the work hold the honors and wear
the megaphoned D’s for a while? In the |

there would be a good response to a call |

which | for “try-outs” for cheer leaders and those | Gish and Rogers, 6-2, 6-3; Price and
f | who are naturally adapted to the job and Beall won from Finch and Jones, 6-4, 7-

who are experienced would come into the |

| work they can naturally do better, and in and Lexington barely gave the
| 8 few years a strong, peppy, cheer-leading | t reach the V. M. I. grounds in time for

corps could be built up.

This system works good in a number
of Southern colleges where the spirit
runs high like Davidson’s, and should |
work better here where spirit is a natural j
thing to be built on rather than a thing |
to be created and maintained. |

Here's a good job for the D Club to put
over with the help of the Athletic Asso- |

ciation. How about better cheering for |

Both the first and second team won their
matches without the loss of a set.
Scores: Bradley won from Gish, 7-
6-8; Price lost to Rogers,
lost to Finch, 8-6, 5:

5,
1-6, 3-6; Staley
-7; Beall lost to Jones,

preparedness for the peaceful) fall when spirit is high over football | 4-8 6-2) 4-6.

Doubles: Bradley and Staley won from

5.
The connections between Blacksburg
team time

the match. This schedule however had
one advantage, namely, no time to lounge
around and get nervous waiting for the
match. And so, out of the cars, on to the
courts, and before supper a complete vic-
tory annexed was the order of the after-
noon at V. M. I. In the three singles

matches without a great deal of trouble.
In Seemans, Hugh Bradley found a real

Vvidson spirit next year?
A. Rooter,

BE A MAN
What’s in a Name!

DD better Da
TRAINING FOR EFFICIENCY |

The United States Government established the Reserve Officers’

Training Corps with one purpose in view—the training of reserve

- officers. Congress realized the fact that trained reserve officers were
an absolute necessity and that the only way to get them was to offer
the proper training to the undergraduates of the larger American
Colleges and Universities, Arrangements were made for the training
of reserve officers for the infantry, the artillery, the cavalry, the
signal corps, the motor transport corps and the air service. College
credit was to be given for the work and the men were to receive some
remuneration for their work.

But the R. O. T. C. courses were not instituted to widen the cur-
ricula-of certain colleges, they were not instituted to help men pay
their way through college, they were not instituted to turn out fault-
lessly drilled cadet corps; but, they were instituted to turn out reserve
officers thoroughly grounded in the oftentimes drab realities of the
‘military profession. ©
_ The government maintains at Davidson a unit of the Infantry

R. 0. T.C. The infantry is not the flashiest branch of the service but
nevertheless it is the backbone of the army—it is the doughboy who
wins the decision. The course is hard and some of it seems unneces-
gary to the undergraduate. It is not a course for lounge-lizards, it is
for pacifists or half-baked radicals, but it is a course that
ed American’ young man, who is conscious of the duty
country as an educated citizen—the duty of so train-

an efficient man in time of trouble as well as in
anot pass up without a searching self-investigation.

ther a matter of flag waving and oratory:

n this democratic |
age. Yet back of that name lies a hid-|

den wealth of treasure that is the mark |

of distinction in any refined and cul-|
tured gentleman. That positive adage |
spoken in yester’years still holds true in|
the present generation: “You can take}
the boy out of the country, but you can’t |
take the country out of the boy”—in or- |
der to make this proverbial phrase “hit |
the point” we might say that a man can|
be “self-made,” but a gentleman must be.
born, or at least he must come under the |

influence of refinement and culture,

Now to the point: Davidson men are
said to be “the cream of the South.” This
we do not doubt! But it is a source of |
much disappointment that some of our
men forget their place due to carelessness
and thoughtlessness. Repeatedly have
the men—or as we prefer to have it said
“the gentlemen of Davidson,” been re-
quested to refrain from obnoxious utter-
ances and hissings that are entirely un-
becoming a gentleman when suggestive
scenes in pictures appear on the screen
at our weekly shows. Remember there
deserving the courtesy of a gentleman as
your own Mother. i

|opponent. Seemans has had the advan- |
| tage of playing with National champions |
| for several summers. He used a peculiar |

| chop stroke which was very effective and

the limit if he had any intentions of win-
ning. Hugh’s serve was working good
however, and he finished up the match in
fine style, taking the last two sets, 6-2,
6-3. Only.one doubles match was played,
Price and Beall proving the stronger
team, ;

Scores: Bradley won from Seemans,
5-7, 6-2, 6-3; Price won from Kellog, 6-8,
1-6, 6-2; Staley won from Moore, 6-1, 6-3.

Doubles: Price and Beall won from
Kellog and Gwathney, 6-1, 3-6, 6-2.

The invading Wildcats left their sleep-
ing quarters at V. M. I. early next morn-
ing and strolled over to the Washington
and Lee campus with high hopes of
another shut-out victory. Washington
and Lee, from all the advance dope hand-
ed out at V. P. I. and V. M. I., was not
supposed to have any record breaking
team. The Wildcats were doomed to dis-
appointment, however, if they were look-
ing for an easy time, because Washington
and Lee proved by all odds the most dan-
gerous opponent met on the trip. The
strength of their team may be better esti-
mated when one considers the fact that
the captain of their team last year only

rated fourth man this year. A good

pages of the magazine.

crowd of students were out to witness the
matches, and they were royally enter-
tained from start to finish, the victory
being in doube until thé°very last.

In the singles the honors were evenly
divided, Washington and Lee’s second
and fourth man winning from Price and
Beall respectively,' while Bradley and

Staley won their matches. Price had his
| man set and match point several times,
| but phenomenal playing by Paine pulled
| him out of the hole, and gave him the
| victory finally. T. F. showed his best

form of the season thus far, and won in
straight sets from Mason. Bradley's
| match with Burke was the treat of the
afternoon. Burke got the jump on Hugh
by taking the first set, 7-5, but tired him-

|Harry Price, and T. F. took their | self*out so much in doing so that: Hugh

| came back strong in the second set, and
| evened things up by winning easily, 6-2.
The third set was a battle royal, and ran
well up in a deuce set. At one time
Burke was leading with the score in
games, 4-2, but Hugh climbed up and tied
the score and thereafter held the advan-
‘tage until the deciding point was won,
the final score being, 8-6. Both players
| were exhausted after this gruelling
| match, and needed about twenty minutes
| to recuperate.
| Davidson needed both doubles to win
| the match. Bradley and Staley waded
| through their match without much trou-
| ble, giving-up only three games in the two
sets. This victory left the responsibility
| of winning the match to Price and Beall,
| who had the fight of their lives before
| they were declared the victors. Paine
; and Mason were too strong for them the
| first set, but were forced to take the small
end of the score in the two final sets. The
final game was deuced seven times before
the game, set, match, and meet was won.
Scores: Bradley won from Burke, 5-7,
6-2, 8-6; Price lost to Paine, 6-4, 5-7, 3-6;
Staley won from. Mason, 6-4, 7-5; Beall
lost to Snively, 0-6, 4-6. ;
Doubles: Bradley and Staley won from
Burke and Snively, 6-1, 6-2; Price and
Beall won from Paine and Mason, 4-6,
6-3, 6-4.

Hh
For Sale: One good cigar stump, apply -
to Trawick. In good condition and guar-
anteed to be strong enough to walk.

cee row beeper caw,

