_ DAVIDSON—$90,000.00

IMPROVEMENT TOWN Today—1 Page

so FOUNDED 1922

DR. SMITH TALKS
(Continued from page 1)

Vol 1.

Henderson Auto
Electric Co.

SAMSONS OF DAVIDSON BARNYARD GOLF ONCE
authority in America, a thing so manifest | Watts came the nigh insolvable problem as| of Spring and the swat of the baseball bat
| she is still at the hospital. | proudly still as though in defiance of the | ancient art of tossing the horse-shoes or, as

~—6<Che Babidson Observer
Russia, where it has almost wrecked half DEMOLISH BRICK WALLS) MORE FAVORITE SPORT
in the young people of today. | Friends of Mrs. Fleagle will be glad to/t, the destruction of the bare and flame-| against the old horschide, comes Davidson’s
of civilization is nearing the rocks we can} | s
| fire-god to down them, But lo! the fire-god | it is called by the vulgar, “barnyard golf.

DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 8, 1923
a continent, but also in the disregard of | As a natural aftermath of the burning of | With the advent of the soft, warm days
But what is the way out? When the ship learn that her condition is improved, though | scarred walls which reared themselves] latest and most genteel sport—that of the
hear the rudder chains creak and we know |

BATTERY REPAIRING

that there is a wise pilot at the helm. This | Sergeant Marshall has resigned from the had foreseen such a situation and did duly | In every nook and cranny of the campus not
change is already beginning to make itself | R. O. T. C., and has moved with his family |appoint a wrecking crew to perform the appropriated by other sports, the “golf links”
manifest in three ways. First, we see the | t° Hickory, N. C., where he has gone into| destructive labor. Under the able and skill-| are being rapidly whipped into shape, and

increasing brotherhood of the Christian Dusiness.

workers of the world. They are striving |
even now to repair the damage done when |
science broadened out and churches were!
engaged in petty quarrels among themselves. |
The next great step forward is the awaken- |
ing of the churches to the necessity of
Christian education for their young people. |
Today, more than ever before, the Chris-|
tians are giving to their schools and so are |
aiding in the spread of moral culture.
Finally there is a universal movement for
education among all classes and conditions
of people, All these forward steps are the
sure signs of the omnipresent power of the
pilot at the helm.

Such being the case, what are our duties?
They are threefold. Our first task is to
spread moral culture, the principles of
Christianity, justice, unselfishness and de-
votion to the welfare of our fellow man.)
The second line of action is to spread
evangelism, enlightenment and education to
all people by every possible means; and the
third is the stern duty of suppressing all
types of lawlessness and the reinforcing of
all institutions of law and order. Then, and
not until then, will the peril of Bolshevism
be safely passed and the new era inaugurated.

This is the inspiring platform on which
all lovers of law and order and human wel-
fare can unite with the inspiring certainty
that, with the help of God, through these |
. instrumentalities, our future civilization will

be marked, not by the bloody tyranny of the
proletariat or the ignorant rule of the mob, |
which would threaten the very existence of |
civilization of itself, but by the simultaneous |
rising into the full realization of their
citizenship of the great brotherhood of en-
lightened free and happy people of the
nations of the world.

———————
eS TTT

PUBLIC SALES

We have purchased 122,000 pair U.

Mrs, Fraser Hood went to Charlotte last
week to see Fairchild Schenck, who is in
the hospital there.

Miss Nancy Grey, of Winthrop College,
spent the week-end at home last week.

Mr. Claude Goodrun, Davidson’s popular
druggist, has been sick with the flu lately.

Mrs. John Allison, of Concord, spent
Wednesday with the Misses Young.

Miss Rachel Daniels, of Charlotte, accom-
panied by her friend, Miss Wilson, spent the
week-end with her attnts, the Misses

| Shumaker.

Prof. A. Currie addressed the high school
in Mooresville last Monday on “Personal
Thrift.”

Doctor Hood went to Greensboro last
week for a meeting of the State High School
inspectors.

Major and Mrs. T. J. Hearn, afcompanied
by the Misses Young, motored to Charlotte
Saturday.

|

The Civic League holds every Saturday
morning a delicatessen sale at Goodrum’s
Store. Delicious candies, cakes and pies
being for sale.

The Book Lover’s Club held its regular
meeting Saturday at the home of Mrs.
Lingle.

sented, the main paper being on “German
j Art,” interestingly prepared by Mrs. Lingle.
| Delicious refreshments were served.

The seventh grade of the public schools

Society, with Miss Lucy Martin Currie as
president. The little lady sent the ex-

=
=
&
=
=
=
=
=
=

An interesting program was pre-|

has formed the Woodrow Wilson Literary |

| ful leadership of Captains Mauze and Lind-
'ermood, whose reputation in the wrecking
line fully justified their appointment, ‘the

howling mob which craved the sound of fall- |

ing pillars and crashing cornices was organ-
'ized into a crack gang of destroyers which
rivaled King Dynamite in destructive powers.

Due to the timely foresight and wisdom of
;the worthy leaders the College was saved
| considerable expense in the matter of hiring
experts to demolish the remains. The fact
that such experts ds the two captains, Goat
Lewis and Sam Summers, lent their aid free
of charge was greatly appreciated by the
authorities, and they truly deserve horrible
mention.

It is a significant fact, also, that upon
such an occasion there invariably comes to

light large numbers of modern Sampsons |
who display their marvelous strength in the |

manner recently demonstrated by our own
Delilah victims.

It is earnestly hoped that another such
| occasion will not arise for some time to

door of the fire-god in the interests of David-
son, the College feels that in the persons of
the recent shining lights they have an organ-
ization which is capable of innumerable
deeds in behalf of remains.

DOCTOR SMITH SPEAKS
TO LEADERS OF TOWN

On the evening of March 3 the Davidson
Development Association held its first get-
together supper at Mrs. Brady's boarding
house. About fifty were expected. The
| secretary, Harry Caldwell, arranged an ex-
jcellent program, Professor A. Currie pre-
sided, at the request of C. M. Stiles, the
president. Between the courses he called
on several of the gentlemen present for five-
| minute talks,

aration for the installation of the town water

system, for which a bond sale has been set, |

to take place the last of this month. He

Mayor Charles Hamilton told of the prep- |

the ring tossers are getting their arms limber
and their eyes sharp in anticipation of many
pleasant games of this honorable art.

Horse-shoes are scarcer than dancing
! masters at Davidson, and the yokels of the
| surrounding territory are prone to leave heir
steeds at home when they come to town for
fear of them being denuded of their spring
footwear. Of equine bootery there is a
dearth, and Hiram Sharpe says that he can-
not get enough shoes together to get himself
in shape for spring training. Bob McLeod
and Dick McMillan started theirs early and
have now gotten to where they can toss a
collar out of twenty shots at the stake. It is
rumored that there have been several fights
among the denizens of Georgia as to which
one got on the “links” first.

The members of the fair sex who have
been recent visitors on the campus have been
duly initiated into the rudiments of the

| game and have shown marvelous proficiency.

Red Smith has shown his willingness to

" | teach them at any time, and is seriously con-
!come, but should Fate again knock at the,

templating starting a class of tossers. Plans
are being made to ask the college authorities
to provide letters for he noble exponents
of this game, which bids fair to overwhelm
even the game of throwing the bull. Pick
‘em up and lay ’em down, boys, it’s good
training for the merry life of a blacksmith
or the like.

D:

The Fine Art of Kissing
By A. WISE GIE

' (People will kiss! Yet only one in ten
thousand know how to, extract the maximum
of bliss from ruby lips. And yet it is simple,
at least for the initiated. Follow these
directions for best results :)

First, know with whom you are clinching
—don’t make any mistakes, although a mis-
take may be a good one.

Don’t jump like a cat for a mouse and
smack the dainty thing on the arm, or in

and

ACCESSORIES

Davidson, N. C.

Men’s U. S. Army Mun-

son-last Shoes at

$2.95

Sizes 5% to 12

Never again will you be able to buy these shoes
at such a low price. We were lucky in finding a
manufacturer, who was overstocked with them, and
needed ready cash, so we bought them at almost
one-half of the regular price, This shoe is made
over the U. S. Army Munson last, with extra heavy
stitching; jal grained’chrome brown leather
used throughout. An ideal shoe for workmen,
farmers, i P carpent and motor-
men, who are obliged to be on their feet all

day.

Send correct size, Pay Postman $2.95 on deliv-
ery, or send us a money order.

If you are not satisfied with these shoes after

you examine them, we will promptly refund your
money.

U. S. DISTRIBUTING & SALES
COMPANY

20-26 West 22nd St. NEW YORK CITY, N. Y.

UOUUEANONOGOOEUOGNEEOOUTOUNANOOUGNOAUEOSEOOOTAAEANANGEEEEEUOENCOUG UU LE

Monarch
Coffee

None Better at Any Price

Full Line of

S. Army Munson last shoes, sizes 514 president a letter telling about the formation |. ‘ ives} al

to 12, which was the entire surplus of the society. Ex-president Wilson wrote ae aes Heer at a nearer art | the ear, or ce the head. Heavy

stock of one of the largest U. S. her an interesting letter. improve tie streets eit ei ‘ | Do not be in a hurry! d

Government shoe contractors. | Dr. J.W MacConnell fade auahoreianeenhl The gentleman should be taller, although wen
This shoe is guaranteed one hundred Miss Regna Duke, of Statesville, was the on “Co-operation.” F. L. Jackson and Mr. | this isn’t absolutely necessary. He should Fancy

charming guest of Miss Evelyn. Potts last Titty discussed the need for a hotel, to be| ave @ clean face, a kindly eye and a mouth
i See : full of expression

Sunday, *
tad | modern and up-to-date in every respect and |

Miss Flora art, a PI) ; : | , : eee n
Miss Flora Stuart, a nurse at the Presby-| of reasonable size. There is certainly no| Don't be anxious to kiss in a crowd. ‘Two
terian Hospital in Charlotte, spent Thursday |

t an urgent need for a good | re plenty to corner and nab a kiss, more
with her parents, | would spoil the fun.

Take the left hand of the female in your
right. Let your hat go. Throw your left
arm over the shoulder of the lady and slip
it around to her right side below her arm.

Don’t be in a hurry!

Her left arm is in your right—let there be

per_cent-solid_leather, color-dark tan,
bellows tongue, dirt and waterproof.
The actual value of'this shoe is $6.00.
Owing to this tremendous buy we can
offer same to the public at $2.95.

Send correct size. Pay postman on
delivery or send money order. If
shoes are not as represented we will
cheerfully refund your money
promptly upon request.

National Bay State
Shoe Company
296 Broadway, NEW YORK, N. Y.
HMAUUTOUUEUAOOOUAOFONQUOUAOUEOUAUOAOOOAEDSOUOEACOOOUOOIOLONNENINADVGS |

Best in the fong Run

GROCERIES

| doubt that there i
Mr. and Mrs. John Stuart. | Heat ik Davids

on.

i | ‘The main address of the evening was made |

Mrs, Fl is visitii | r ; ; |

eit in Rania is visiting her | by Dr. Henry Louis Smith, president of

D yy i | Washington and Lee University, Doctor

; Sey y | Smith gave the association and its purpose

Miss Lill -end |. 1.

wi th the nie a ae the end ja big boost and offered much encouragement

pores ane: | to the new organization. Doctor Smith said

that he had been told, both in Atlanta and | faint pressure on that, not like the grip of.

jin Richmond, that North Carolina is leading | 2 yise, but a gentle grasp full of thought,
| the other States in its progressive movements. | respect and electricity.

D.
Do not be in a hurry!

All Unstrung Her head lies on your shoulder. You are
Clerk—Have a cigar, Prof., that is the| heart to heart. Look deeply into her half
Miss West, head of the Spanish depart- | new one called Salome. closed orbs. Gently, but firmly, press her
ment of Queens College, accompanied by| Prof. Hart—Why Salome? to your vest. Stand firm, be brave, but do
| Miss Elizabeth Laird and other friends,| Clerk—Because its wrapper is missing.—|not be ina hurry! Her lips are almost open.
motored to Davidson to see her brother, The Rollins Sandspur. Lean slightly with your head, take careful
E. A. West, ’24, last week-end. aim—the lips meet, the eyes close, the heart

———— opens, the soul rides through tempests, but

Reverened Mr. Foster, pastor of the Dad—You kept the car out rather late last | do not be in a hurry! Heaven opens before

Methodist Church, has been confined to his | evening, son. What delayed you? | you, the earth flies from under your feet

home for several days with influenza. He| Son—Had a blow-out, dad. | like a blazing docket across the evening sky.
rer not able to fill his pulpit last Sunday., Dad—H’m! Tire or roadhouse?

1 | |Don’t be afraid. No fuss, no noise, no
A large part of the Methodist Congregation | fluttering, no squirming. You are twanging
attending the services at the Presbyterian |

Church | the golden chords of ecstacy.
hurch, A man slightly under the weather ap-| Do not be in a hurry!

Electrik Maid BREAD °
PIES---CAKES---BUNS

H.M. Johnson

ETT

Sco
Sse
Sse.

iit

VICTROLAS

New VICTOR |
RECORDS Every
Two. Weeks

EVERYTHING IN FURNITURE

Seass

2

-

a

¥

Mr. I. M. Selsor, of Spartanburg, S. C.,
motored up to Davidson Saturday, and he,
with his brother, J. M. Selsor, E. C. Monk
and W. E, Milton, went back to Spartan- |
burg Saturday night. |

People’s Home

The finest tire Furnishing Co.
eae te lend MOORESVILLE, N. C.
today— and you
don’t have to go
outside of town
to prove itf

The Women’s Misionary Societies of Fair-
view and Davidson Churches met with Mrs.’
W. C. Thomson Monday afternoon,

| The reply was, “Over there.” To which
| the tipsy one replied:

“Thash funny, Ossifer, over there they
said it was over-here.”

4 |
“5 Henderson Auto Electric Company . |

* GAS, OILS, BATTERIES, TIRES, TUBES,
ACCESSORIES, EXPERT REPAIRS

Club Meets With Mrs. Potts
The As You Like It Club met at the home

Davidson, N. C.

of Mrs. Cloyd Potts, Friday afternoon. Mrs.
Hugh Grey, in her unique way, reviewed
Susan Glaspell’s “Jury of Her Peers.” Mrs.
Kenneth Foreman told of the life of Sidney
Lanier, our great Southern poet, and read
some of his poetry. Refreshments were.

A little negro school girl, in a physiology
test, wrote the following answer:
'“The haid holds the skull and the brains
is there if there is any, the chest holds the
liver and the lungs, and the stummick holds
| the entrails and the vowels which are a, e,

served at the conclusion of the. meeting.

i, 0, u, and sometimes w and y,.”—

“Taste the Difference’
Electrik Maid Bake Shop

“MOORESVILLE, N.C.

