THE DAVIES ONIAN

BARRACKS SUPPORT
APPARENTLY BASEBALL
FIREPROOF AND TRACK
FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON
Vol. X DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 1, 1923 No. 18

FIRE COMPLETELY DESTROYS WATTS DORMITORY

RAPIDLY SPREADING FLAMES
PLAY HAVOC WITH BUILDING

Valiant Work Saves All Adjoin-
ing Buildings and Personal
Property of Students

ORIGIN OF FIRE UNKNOWN

Alarm Sounded During Church
Service and Congregation
Is Dismibsed

The college ‘suffered a loss of approxi-
mately $45,000, forty-nine students were
made homeless, and the campus was divested
of its most centrally located dormitory, when
Watts Buildings was claimed by fire of un-
known origin, during the church hour Sun-
day morning.

The fire was discovered over the front
end of the third floor hall by Albert Wild-
man, about 11:25 a. m. Wildman’ sounded
the alarm and returned to fight the flames,
finding the second room on the right of the
hall practically enveloped in fire. As though
by magic power the flames spread to every
quarter of the uppermost story, aided by a
steady breeze and a draft from the opened
windows of the building.

Efforts on the part of the students and
college authorities, summoned from the
morning church service, were futile, due to
the lack of water pressure, the headway of
the flames and the nature of the fire. Once
the flames gained an entrance to the plastered
walls the total destruction of the building
was forseen and all efforts were bent toward
the saving of adjacent property.

____ Buildings Threatened

Sparks and the heat from the fire threat-
ened the dormitories on either side, and the
old power house and commissary in the rear,
but the untiring work of students and towns-
people served to prevent further disaster.
Chemicals and wet blankets were used ef-
fectively, in conjunction with the weak
streams of water, to protect Georgia and
Rumple, while a bucket brigade ably handled
the small blaze ich .threatened the home
of the Misses Shewmaker.

Church in Session

In the Presbyterian Church at the south-
west corner of the campus the speaker, Doc-
tor McCallie, Korean missionary, had hardly
announced his text and entered into his dis-
course, when the announcement was made
of the conflagration. The service was

(Contined on Page 6)
T).

28.

Doctor Martin Speaks

In a statement before the student
body Monday morning, Doctor Martin
said it is his expectation to see a new,
modern structure on the site of Watts
Building when the new term opens
next fall. He cautioned that he could
promise nothing definite, but that a
new building is reasonably expected to
be constructed at once.

Special arrangements were made by
Doctor Martin and Mr. Jackson to
provide for all students who roomed
in Watts. They are being ably cared
for in the parlors of the new build-
ings, the gymnasium and in the rooms
of-friends.

The matter of a new building will
probably be broached at a meeting of
the board of trustees to be held this
week,

Right—Watts Dormitory, destroyed by fire Sunday morning.
left—Rumple Dormitory, saved through work of students, despite high winds which carried scorching

heat from the burning adjoining.

SUCCESSFUL CONVENTION Of
LAYMEN HELD IN CHARLOTTE

Many Davidson Students and
- Alumni Among Those
Present

Acting upon the suggestions of various
members of the faculty and taking advantage
also of the generous offer made by the
faculty, quite a few students attended the
Laymen’s Convention on last Thursday and
Friday at Charlotte. The faculty agreed to
allow any student to attend the convention
and further agreed that any excused ab-
sences thus incurred should not affect the
grade of the student. :

The Laymen’s Convention is one of the
greatest gatherings that is held by the South-
ern Presbyterians during the year and has
become an important factor in the advance-
ment of all phases of Christian activity and
endeavor. It is held biennially and is widely
attended by men from all over the South
who are interested in the work being done
by laymen. Davidson was particularly for-
tunate in having the convention so conveni-
ently located and a large number of the
faculty and student took advantage of the
opportunity presented.

The convention theme for practically all
the gatherings has been “World Evangeliza-
tion.” As a secondary theme the verse “Un-
to Him who has washed us from our sins
in His own blood,” was used. The programs
for each session followed this thought
throughout. Talented speakers with live
messages came from all parts of the country
to represent the many departments of the
work of the Church. Among these were Dr.
J. O. Reavis and Dr. Tolly Thompson,
known to all Davidson students, Dr. J.
Campbell White, Dr. J. P. McCallie, Dr. M.
E. Melvin, Rev. Motte Martin, and Mr.
Frederick Sullens.

All those subjects which are vital in the
advancement of Christianity at home and
abroad were carefully studied and discussed
with great fervor and earnestness by great
speakers and delegates. Facts and needs of
the foreign field; evangelism, the family
altar, tithing, equipment, and personal expe-
rience were some of the subjects taken up in

(Continued on Page 8)

TWO-THIRDS OF FUNDS FOR
NEW CHAMBERS SUBSCRIBED

Work On the Foundation to Be
Started Within Sixty
Days

PROGRESS IS GRATIFYING

Classrooms to Memorialize Out-
standing Friends of the
College

The campaign for the $600,000 fund for
the rebuilding of Chambers Hall and the en-
dowment of Davidson College has passed the
$400,000 mark. This leaves $100,000 to be
subscribed by the Synod of North Carolina
and the alumni, and the remaining $100,000
to be raised in the Synods of Georgia and
Florida. Mr. Malcolm Lockhart, director
of the campaign, is very gratified by the
progress it is making and, in view of the
amount of the fund already raised, the work
on the foundation of the new Chambers Hall
will start within the next sixty days.

In the new Chambers Hall there are to be
located thirty class rooms, or lecture halls.
These teaching quarters have for some time
been Davidson’s greatest physical need. At
present there are only five recitation rooms
on the campus built designedly for such use,
while there are twenty-eight teachers. It
has been thought that it would be a good
and an inspirational plan to have each of
these thirty rooms memorialize an outstand-
ing Presbyterian of the present or the past,
whose friendship for and interest in the de-
nomination and college has been conspicu-
ous.

As an exceedingly large number of the
leaders of our church obtain their training
here, how appropriate that these splendid
spirits should thus be memorialized in the
midst, as it were, of the student activities,
that the lives of those commemorated should
be a constant inspiration to the young men
who are being trained to carry on the work
done by them.

Eight of these memorial lecture halls have
already been established by donors. For
Mr. R. A. Dunn, president of the Com-

(Continued on Page 6)

DOCTOR GREY PLANS VSI T0
MANY EUROPERY COTE

Itinerary to Include Many of the
Historical Cities of
Italy

Dr. W. R. Grey, vice-president of the col-
lege and head of the Latin department, has
announced his plans for a trip to Europe to
do research work in connection with his
duties as professor of romance languages at
Davidson.

Doctor Grey plans to leave America either
the 16th or 23rd of April and is now arrang-
ing his classes so that it will be possible
for him to execute his plans, He will arrive
at Brest, France, about the first of May and
then expects to spend about four months in
the romance countries of the Eastern Hemi-
sphere,

Upon his arrival in France, Doctor Grey
plans to spend a few days in Paris before
going to Italy, the home of the old Latin-
speaking nations and the scene of the many
ruins of old Latin architecture, made famous
by the extensive researches of eminent archi-
ologists and geologist. There Doctor Grey
plans to spend about eight weeks, most of
the time in and near Naples, at no time going
further south then Salerno. While in the
neighborhood of Naples, he will visit Pom-
peii, Rome, Salerno, Mount Vesuvius, and
other important Italian cities.

His itinerary will then turn him back to
France where he expects to spend about six
or eight weeks in Paris and the immediate

vicinity. Doctor Grey will take special work |

in Paris,

Doctor Grey plans, also, to make a short
trip through Holland and Switzerland, where
he will visit the Alps.

While in Europe, he intends to study the
customs of the people with whom he comes
in contact, as well as to make a special study
of native enunciations.

_ Doctor Grey plans to leave France on his
return trip no later than September 1. He
expects to reach Davidson just a few days
before the beginning of next term and will
be once more ready to take up his work in
the Latin and French departments.

In order to make this trip possible, he is

giving his $tudents an extra class each week

WILDGATS SUFFER REVERSAL
ON PALMETTO STATE CIRCUIT

Furman Hornets Are Defeated
by Coach Grey’s Charges
in Greenville

CRAWFORD IS THE STAR

Guilford Wins In Last Minutes
of Play Over Captainless
Davidsonians

Clemson Game

On the opening game of the South Caro-
lina trip, the Wildcat cagers were defeated
by the Clemson Tigers 25-18, in a contest
featured by the close guarding of the South
Carolinians.

The ‘Tigers presented an impenetrable
defense and the Wildcats seldom got a shot
under the basket, all their goals being made
from the center of the floor.

For the first few minutes of play the con-
test was a nip-and-tuck affair with first one
side and then the other forging into the
lead, but near the end of the half, the Tigers
made a spurt which landed them ahead 14-8
at the intermission.

‘The contest was just as close during the
final half, the Tigers scoring eleven tallies
while the Presbyterians made ten points, and
wooowlyg’ whistle found. tub Clemson five

in front by a seven-point margin.

The great work of George Bryan, left
forward for the Clemson team proved too
much for the Wildcats. His seven goals
from the field accounted for fourteen of the
Tigers points and came close to equalling
the Davidsonians score. He was fast on the
floor and the close guarding never seemed to
bother the accuracy of his shots.

For the Wildcats, Warhoss and Pat were
the star performers, each garnering three
goals from the floor, while Warhoss made
two good from the free throw line. Never
did the Wildcats get a close shot but long
shots by both teams made the game close
till the end. Laird and Beall each made one
goal which ended the scoring for the Red
and Black. Sook Boggs, at guard, played
a stellar game for the Poison Squad, and but

(Contined on Page 6)

HONOR ROLL

The fall honor roll has been compiled.
‘the seniors are represented by six men, the
juniors by four, the sophomores by one, and
the Freshmen by two. Although the sophs
can boast of only one honor roll man, she
can be proud of the fact that she holds the
man who made the highest grade made in
school this past term.

The honor roll for the fall term is as
follows: M.A., R. M. Brice, 95.2; Seniors—
R. F. Davidson, 97.50; J. H. Davis, Jr.,
95.83; W. G. Guille, 95.66; W. P. Kimzey,
95.50; W. A. Gamble, 95.0; Juniors—W. F.
Galloway, 96.42; J. I. Smith, 95.33; D. B.
Walthall, '96.16; A. M. Hillhouse, 95.13;
Sophomore—M. W. Trawick, 98.71; Fresh-
men—H. C. Lawson, 96.50; H. L. Shaw,
96.50.

These men have accomplished what should
he the aim of every man in college. They
realize what they are here for and it is to
them that much of the credit for the high
standing of Davidson should go.

TD.

and will give final examination by the mid-
dle of April. The sections of French that
are not taking these extra classes each week
will be turned over to Doctor Lingle for
the remainder of the year.

SHOW THAT WILDCAT SPIRIT!
