». THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 15, 1923

P|

2

$0 com Oo eT
—
A .

Bese rr see
Oa on
WARHOSS LEADS TRIBE

‘ON INITIAL WAR PATH

Early Wednesday morning Coach Grey
will put his poison squad on the war-path.
N. C. State, Wake Forest, Elon and Guil-
ford represent the enemies’ territory, which
is to be invaded. These colleges have four
of the strongest teams in the State, yet the
Wildcats are determined to bring back four
victories. Without a doubt, it is a most
difficult task which they are undertaking,
but the knowledge that the student body is
behind them to a man will lead them on to
superhuman efforts, and it “fs felt that on
their return the sting of the Trinity defeat
will have been wiped out, by comparative
scores at least, since the team does not play
again the Methodist this season.

N. C. State will furnish the opposition on
Wednesday night. Although the Wildcats
experienced very little difficulty in defeating
them here, it is quite. evident that State is
playing a different brand of basket-ball now.
Recently the fast quint from Florida had to
bow before State to the tune of 30 to 18.
Elon also was forced to accept defeat at
their hands, after playing two extra five-
minute periods. The final score was, Elon
21; State 23. This is all:the more notable
when it is remembered that this game was
played on Elon’s own patented court. With
these. facts in hand, ‘Davidson will hardly
enter the game over-confident. Neverthe-
less, plenty of: determination will be there
in the place of any would-be over-confid-
ence, and the students are looking for a
clean-cut victory to head the invasion of the
old North State.

On the following night, the Wildcats will
match their strength with our old-time enemy
and rival, Wake Forest. This will no doubt
prove to be the hardest game of the trip.
Wake Forest will be on her toes for revenge
after the two defeats handed them by ‘the
Wildcats last year. As to the prowess of

THE

Central Cafeteria
“On the Square”

Entrance Next to
United Cigar Store
on Trade and Tryon

I C99 000 000 000c— 0000

el |
“EQUIPMENT for EVERY SPORT” §

| SPORTING GOODS

Basketball, Tennis, Baseball
goods, We sell the Spalding,
Reach and Wright & Ditson
goods. We have the exclusive
agency for A. G. Spalding &

SS
ATHLETICS _—

ae

iLL’S
ASKET
ALL
ULL

Six blue ribbons in seven starts—Ain’t
nature grand?

The Fighting Devils ain't nothing short
of the tad-pole’s collar buttons. Let’s ship
them to Atlanta.

Trinity didn’t fail to put the skids under
the Devil’s last week. First set-back in
seven starts, too. But the Wildcats went
under fighting; it seemed to be the ambition
of every player to make his rival’s parents
invest in cemetery real estate.

“Give me wine, women and song, especi-
ally the first three,” muttered Pat Crawford
as Jimmie Simpson hung up his seventeenth
point,

Our mat mechanics hoop up with the
Trinity grapplers on the 23rd. Take notice
Cromartie, Lindamood, etc., we crave re-
venge!

Warhoss’ eye for the basket-ball from the
charity line is second only to the machine
gunner’s His aim at the elusive loop has
been good on 34 out of 50 occasions.

Chong McIlwaine, the dope fiend, is get-
ting up a complete record of Davidson ath-
letics, Dope on the following football games
is missing. Can you help?

1897—Dates and places of games.

1903—Scores of games.

1905—Scores of games.

1906—Scores of games.

1911—Dates, places and players.

1912—Scores and places of games.

1913—Scores, of N. C. State and.Piedmont
games.

How, They Hit

Field Foul Total
Player Goals Goals Points
Mauze ........06- 24 34 8&2
MBIT Wsisiasauisues 26 0 52
Crawford ........ 21 0 42
Staley ........... 15 0 30
Beall .......0000. 3 0 6
McConnell ....... 3 0 6
Mallory .......... 2 0 4
Boggs .........6+ 2 0 4
DDAVIS icc cicvee cutee 1 1 3
Biking .... 0.00.00 1 0 2
DeArmond ...... 0 0 0
Sappenfield ...... 0 0 0

98 35 231

Maybe Wofford hasn’t the best team in
the South, but they have a fighting team and
one that showed the best spirit of any team
that has visited Davidson in a long time.
Their action in stopping their shooting while
the band played “O, Davidson” was just
about the finest exhibition of sportsmanship
the writer has ever seen. Why can’t David-
son teams follow that example? Captain,
Warhoss and Fighting Devils, lead the way.

If Brother Noah has been looking down

a\from above this week he must have been

chuckling as he has seen us flapping around
the campus like mud-larks searching for
Mt. Ararat.

the team this year, their strength has al-
feady been demonstrated. Carolina alone
has been able to come out on top in a clash
with the strong Baptists. Trinity was de-

| feated in Durham by one point. Elon, Guil-

ford and State"have all been met and de-
feated on their own courts. On this night,
then, Davidson must make her strongest bid
for the State championship. A-victory for
the Wildcats will put them in direct. line

+ for-a-final-and- deciding game with Carolina.

NICHES IN THE WILDCAT
HALL OF .FAME

No. 8—Samuel Reeves Keesler,
. * —§r., °17
D** Football
D Baseball

Samuel Reeves Keesler, Jr., is probably
the greatest field general who ever donned
the moleskins at Davidson. No more loyal
son of Davidson ever fought on the grid-
iron,;. When the Great War broke out he
became an aviator and as a member of the
U. S. Aviation Corps he made the supreme
sacrifice in France and died as he had al-
ways lived, a fighter. -

Sam came to Davidson from Greenwood,
Miss.,. and was scrub quarterback his first
year, The next season he led the Wildcats
through one of the most successful seasons
of their history. Carolina was the only
team to wrest a victory from the Wildcats.
Only five feet and weighing a scant 135
pounds, Sam was a wonder at running
through a broken field. In 1915, when
Georgia Tech wore out the scrapping Wild-
cats in the last half and won 9-0, Sam car-
ried the ball across during the first period
but the backfield was in motion and the
score was not allowed.

A. & M., 16-0 in 1916, it was Sam Keesler
who skirted the Engineers’ flanks, shot for-
ward passes to the waiting ends and ran
back punts for a total of 116 yards and by
his ‘aggressive tactics led the Wildcats to
their lost victory over State on the gridiron.

His last year Sam worked on the receiving
end of the Davidson batteries. Though
small he was a great catcher and worked his
pitches well. He proved as Ray Schalk had
done in the majors that a catcher did not
need to be a physical giant.

In addition to his athletic prowess Sam
was a real leader and in his senior year was
president of the student body. Along literary
and sholastic lines he was recognized as a
leader.

When America eatered the war Sam en-
Nisted in the Aviation Corps and in 1918,
was an aero observer in France. On the
afternoon of October 8, he was attacked by
four Boches and was shot three times in the
heart and three times in the abdomen. After
falling to the ground he was shot in the
hip. He was taken to a German prison
camp and died at noon the following day.

In honor of his loyalty and courage, which
never failed him, he was awarded the Dis-
tinguished Service Cross. No truer David-
sonian, no cleaner fighter and no more patri-
otic American ever lived and died for his
country and it is to such men that Davidson
owes her reputation and fighting spirit.

p22

ELIMINATION PROCESS
FOR WRESTLING TEAM

The wrestling team has settled down to
serious work in prepartion for the meets
with Trinity and Carolina on February 23
and 24, and this week will find Coach Bangle
and Captain Cromartie conducting a meet of
their own to determine who shall occupy
berths on the official team.

It is planned to hold a regular match meet
Wednesday or Thursday of this in
which by a process of elimination, the

will be chosen. Those trying out for the
respective weights will, discontinuing the
habit of working together, be testing their
ability of :working against each other in an
effort to eliminate said other from the meet,
and hence from the team. In this manner
the best in each weight will be determined.

Those out for wrestling have sworn that
Trinity's winning streak shall be broken if
possible and all effort will be made to avenge
the defeats Trinity has handed Davidson in
football and basket-ball.

camp, 34-30. The memory of this will be
enough to make old Warhoss and his co-
horts forget everything else and win this
game. . j
Guilford comes last on the schedule of
games for this strenuous week. The Frazier

they did last, and so far Guilford has only
lost to Wake Forest. If there is an ounce of
fight left in the Wildcats after three such

When Davidson beat State, then known as,

brothers are playing great ball this year, as

wearing, just notice this:

long time:
|

|
|
|
i
|

}

L

] On Your Way Through
A Pair of Shoes

On your way through the shoes you are now

If they fit well at just three spote—the heel, the .
instep and the toes—they will not look old for a

If they do not fit well there, they will break down
and look old in a short time.

Try Hendrix Shoes next time.
they fit and how long they last.

| J. M. HENDRIX & CO.

“THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES”
GREENSBORO, N. C.

See how well

-)

‘CAROLINA’S RECORD
UNMARRED TO DATE

The victories of Carolina over Wake For-

est and Trinity, with no other team in the
State having a clean record, makes it seem
probable that the Tar Heels are in for an-
lother championship. Some of the wins of
|the University have been by bare margins
of a point or two and it is possible that
| somebody will trip them up. Wake Forest
‘has had her chance, however, and failed by
a goal. Trinity is the only other State team
on the Carolina schedule that looks anything
like formidable. The Tar Heels defeated
the Methodist in the first game at Durham,
20-19.

Wake Forest has won a clean-cut victory
over Trinity and taken two from State, and
|despite her losses to Carolina, looks a trifle
| better than Davidson when the Wildcats de-
|feat by Trinity is considered. The game
|with the Baptists this week will show how
| much comparative scores can be relied on.
| Unless the Wildcats lick Wake Forest it
| looks as if they will have to be content with
| third position.
| NC. State is the goat of all the State
|quints this season. The Raleigh lads have
|lost twice to Wake Forest, split with Elon
jand suffered a crushing defeat by Davidson.
| Only by a miracle can they hope to do much
| against Carolina when they meet this season.
| The University of Alabama and North
Carolina remain undefeated in Dixie basket-
‘ball circles and are leading the field toward
the championship by a fair margin. Afa-
bama has won fifteen straight games, her
list of? victims, including the Atlanta Ath-
letic Club, Mississippi, Vanderbilt and Ken-
tucky. Although the North Carolinians are
undefeated they can offer no such list of
defeated opponents as the Crimson Tide.
There is no basis for comparative scores,
however, and the result will have to be left to
the tournament.

Mercer, last year’s runner-up for the
championship, had a disastrious Northern
trip this season when they lost five out of
seven games. Decisive defeats by North
Carolina and Pennsylvania were the principal
blots on the schedule. Back at home, how-
ever the Mercerites have landed on their feet
and a clean-cut victory over A. A. C. shows
the real strength of the team.

Georgia has defeated most of the South
Carolina colleges and until they invaded Ten-
nessee last week had an untarnished collegi-
ate record. Losses to Vanderbilt and Ten-
nessee, however, make it appear that the
Georgians will be left behind in the tourna-
ment this month. Another factor that points
toward this result is the difficulty the Bull
Dogs had in defeating Auburn and Wofford,
who hardly have Al teams this season.
Furman and Clemson both licked the Plains-
man_worse-than- Georgia.

Newberry is going like a house afire and
may prove to be the dark horse of the tour-
nament. Newberry 41, South Carolina 9, and
Newberry 48, Citadel 10, shows the ‘char-

Soe ee
eliminated Newberry by a single point,
of the hardest games of the tourna-

‘team and some-

times they go to pieces. They have victories
over Auburn, Georgetown and Spartanburg
“y” to their credit but a split with Clemson
mars their record. :

The University of Chattanooga is another
small school that presents a constant threat
in their lanky center, Redd, and they are
likely to throw a gare into some of the
“big dogs” at the tournament.

D—
N. C. OLYMPIC MEET
TO BE HELD IN MAY

The North Carolina Olympic games will
be held in Durham, May 4 and 5. All col-
leges of the State will complete for honors.
Carolina took first place last year, but ac-
cording to all rumors, Davidson will give
them aiclose call this year. ey

Matches will be held in track, tennis, golf,
wrestling, boxing, swimming, baseball and
horse-shoe pitching at the meet. - Davidson
will be represented by its track, tennis, golf
and wrestling teams, from whom great
things are expected.

The men who made the trip last year are
very enthusiastic over the p: cts of re-
turning this year. They a Splendid
time. All the events are opened ‘to the visi-
tors free; in fact, the city opens wide its
portals for the reception of these battling
athletes. A good time is guaranteed to all.

No definite plans have been decided upon
as yet, but it is high time for men hoping to
make this trip to begin getting lined up.

Since we have moved into
our new ‘store, 27 North
Tryon, you will find that we
hive &@ more complete line
of Young Men’s Togs than

ever.

Be sure and make this
your headquarters while in
the city

