THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 13, 1923 3
; Ae
st good job now cleaning up the dormitories for |
VAUDEVILLE the college.
MUSICAL COMEDY It’s our own idea that if slang continues |
PICTURES to be slung around here at the rate they've |
| been slinging it, that pretty soon the English
Language will be the English Slanguage. |
| g |
= Fresh—Why does Mason Field take cold
so easily ? .
erones Have a packet in your
soph—Vunno, |
+ Fresh—-So much of him on the ground. rte “thai ready
ALHAMBRA Ted Buck had taken a sudden liking to the Aids digestion.
little ‘brown pellets of leguminous goodness, All thirst
vulgarly known as “Boston Strawberries.” Shaties th th t
THEATRE Ted and McCarty walked into a Charlotte x e tnroat.
cafe, and thereupott Buck ordered a whole For Quality, Flavor and
Billie Long claims he came from royal) Why does Tom Baker laugh when you hit Plate of beans. a the Sealed Package,
blood—his mother was a Moxie Queen, and) on his head ? “Are you going to eat all those beans? ft
as his father was a Cattle King. ‘Cause ‘ats his funny bone, I reckon. said MeCarty as he gazed with amazement
a at the pile on the plate.
Fresh Henderson (to Skit, at White Drug = Among the prominent visitors on the “Aint going to do nothing else,” said Buek
Co,)—Are you the Doctor? campus last week was Daddy Dick Leonard. #s he started in, cee ;
Skit McConnell—No, I'm the fizz-ition that father of the Court of Control, who was “The heck you ain't,” said McCarty,
The Merriest Place operates on the soda fountain. here to watch Paw Regen’s boys in action. Sas ; ir
in Charlotte — ne saa yen At a meeting of the Student Council the
x Possible meanings of D. A. S., prominent Their noses were red, other night action was taken to the effeet
non-de-plume in the Davidson College Maga- Their pajamas blue, that they wouldn't need Fresh Inman any
zine: ‘ They looked quite bum longer. We were disturbed until we found
Dry and Silly. I think--don't you? out that he was long enough,
Ry E P) Deep, Almost Solvable. Viadana i : Charlotte
e Dake's Abominable Seratchings. The Davidsonian has proterred to print a KS, Christenburry, unl Davidson's
(Note: The author's desire in choosing: few of the Santa Claus letters that are foremost: Shick-a eel peta OO ala Transfer Company
SEE this particular means of “signing off was crowding the mails these days? The follow-_ little friends as “Freckles! aU PEE
probably to add some suggestion as to the ing are from members of our own fast set j has at least attained the Impossible, Dy the PHONE 298
W. B. BARNETTE nature of his work). of naughty boys who have all of a suddon, extravagant and judicious use ef avcremedy
Se determined to be good so that they may not Prescribed by Little Prawiel, he has abou BAGGAGE
AND CO. Q Two freshmen met for the first time. find their hosiery adorned with ashes instead Succeeded in chasing away the chase: sui- AND TAXI
Frosp Sapp—Haven't [| met vou some- of Christmas joys : spots on his otherwise unelouded AB SERVICE
We specialize in Shoes where—Salisbury, wasn't it? o This potent elixir is know as Make emo” or K,
Fresh Hulett—Don't think so, ve never Deer Sandy Clause and is guaranteed to knock the freekles off
and Hose for College Men saan Be yeu! ri ae fertiant AK M!
& been to Salisbury. I am a nice little hoy not so very old who @ turkey egg without more commotion than it JAKE MARTIN, Prop.
Sapp—Me neither, that must have been sure does like nice things to play with, 1 will take 0) rouse a fly from his stumbers,
aia two other fellows. have been real good all the year and am bet- He tried it in the lavatory and a few drops | TEE Sse eee
——- ter than ever now. [do not play with the took off a square foot ot enamel Fsaltan tie z : GATE
For all insect bites, red Davidson, N. G., Des. 11, 1023, — bad little boys here as my mamma told me ly he applied it Wn his Ne and WSS then H
; , Dear Santa: Claus: hot to, Twant you to baiag me a little bottle has been using it continuously, while his 0 ege ewe ry
bug, chigger, bee, wasp, a ae peta asi Hat eitiee brass eHoon vk take it with | freckles emulate the sheike of the desert who
Mosquito, etc., apply wet I am a little country boy, 23 years old. | i i a brass sj i

baking soda or household
ammonia, followed by
cooling applications of —

go to school at Davidson aml tike ail my
j teachers. I want you to bring me a pair ot
i} shoes, size 14 or larger and a can of Boston

Ss Baked Beans. Also bring me a little red muf-
i 4 K |

fler, Don't bring my girl anything, Santa,
| kicked me,
VaPpoRusB

cause she’s mean and don't play fair—she
nice.
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

JOHNSON’S

Bring all my teachers something
Your little boy,
Mason Fields.

Fresh Laws, with one of Doctor MacCon
nell’s prescriptions, spent most of this mern-
‘ing looking for “Doc” DeArmon. Someone
| had told him Doe was a German stud, and he
| wanted to get him to read the prescription
|so- he would know what to do.

COLLEGE BARBERS

What the professors would hear if the
boys would be perfectly candid with them :
| Never mind thanking me, old top, I just
| did it so you would pass me.

See here, Prof, I'm just riding your course
for a crip, and you're supposed to pass me
anyway.

Frankly, old man, I'm not prepared, I went
to a dance in Charlotte last night.

No, Doctor, I'm not sick—sleepy,

| bridge game broke up pretty late, you know.

Don’t have any notes on that lesson, old

| squirt, I was asleep that day.

Let Us Prove It

BARBER SHOP

——

—

Merchants & Farmers
National Bank

Charlotte, N. C.

$$

Spooty ’ Hillhouse—Does your girl dress
| well?

Railroad Jones—I don't know, I never
| watched her. ;
| So

Cop Johnson (surprising Oskeegum, at a
/crap game)—Uh-huh, I caught
| Ps
| awares, didn’t I?
4% paid on Savings Accounts Oskeegum—Gwan, white folks, you know

and Certificates of / I don wear them are things.
Deposit pane
po | A filthy boy is Freshman Sears,

| He doesn’t ever wash his ears.

But a dirtier boy is Sophomore Hall,

He don’t even wash at all.

you un-

te Checking Accounts Invited

—,

——S

| Little Boy—Daddy, do they pay Mr. Gor-

|don for coming down here?
The
Raleigh Cafe

our

Professor—Yes.
Always has something good

L. B.—How much, Daddy?
A. M. P.—AIl his expenses, and half the
for the Davidson Boys.
It is a pleasure to

gate receipts.
lon physics review)—Doctor, I don’t remem-
serve those high

'ber studying that, those pages musta been
torn outa my book.

Professor—Musta been, I know they
tone fellows | weren't worn out.
S | Fresh Shelton—Got my radio working
|now. Got Pittsburg last night. |
| Arbathnot—That’s nothing, I stuck my

hand out the window and got Chile.

Sion Alford (complaining about a question , tage Cheese.

|
|
|

) -“T’ye Jed a fast life, but I’m on my last
lap now,” confessed the young bride to her

\innocent husband.

221 West, Teade.St

and a magnifying pair of spees so T ean
afford to look at the grades on my review

papers. They look too small now.
Thanking you in advance,
Johnnie Baker.

Dear Old Santa Claus,

Here Lam once more but all Task is a case

of Tanlac for my Christmas present. T wan

to take this od grow big and strong so 1 can

whale the stuffings out of all these bad boy
when they pick on me.

U. Know Me,
Buffalo MeKinnon,

Endeared old Saint,
I prithee send your humble servant some

new subjects for my poetic fancy as my vol

uminous capacity has nearly depleted my

lists of subjects. No longer does Love

Beauty and Nymphs of Loveliness attract the
supercillious attention of these bigoted col-

lege youths. Now all that Task is that you
tell me what to write for another six months
Anything gratefully accepted.

D. A. S.

Rube—Have you tasted that new candy
down at the Honor Store ?
Johhny—No, what kind is it?

Rube—-Those United States Mints, they're
divine.

Johnny- I'm afraid they're too rich for
me.

Nobility and otherwise on our campus:
Prince Albert To Bakko.

Duke S Mixture.

General Debility.

Colonel Wall nutt.

Corporal Punishment.

Major Offense.

Count FE. Nance.

Baron Wastes.

No, Hortense, plies and not spades
imps ‘in Dental Bridge.

are
t

at
Nat Faison wants to know if Key West
will open the Panama Canal locks.

While at one of Davidson's most famous
Hash Foundries the other day at dinner
time, Captain Ramsey was eating some Cot
Suddenly he ground down on
a hard object which proved to be a splinter.

“Aha,” he exclaimed, “I have a piece of
the door.”

A lad from our college named Bill,
Who suffering from fever and chill,
One night at a dance
Shook the dust from his pants
And they praise him for shimmying still.

Jitney—Oh, isn’t it terrible about the poor
Negro down the street that “was blinded the

other day?

Jerry—Well, it’s not so bad, he’s got a

“fold their tents and silently steal away.”

Watches and Clocks

Eversharp Pencils Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens

ANNUAL STAFF WORKING
STRENUOUSLY ON ANNUAL
Quips and Cranks, the Annual put out
by the Davidson student
pressing rapidly, Due to a change in the
t editor-in-chief’s position, of
recent illness, the publication was handi-
capped for a few weeks.
the month has been exceptionally
rapid. All the
pleted, the junior section, and the ath- |

body is pro- Pennants and Pillows

Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters

because a

Progress for

s
last

senior section is com-

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler

Posse rrr rrr rrr rrr rtrd

letic seetion will be finished by the holi- DAVIDSON, N. C.
days. This shows a remarkable amount H
of work accomplished by the members essessssecssesessseseesesssescesecnwesnenns

_ of the staff and their energy and zeal is |
to be commended,

Vhe chief difficulty at the present is a
debt which was held over from last year.) ff
which it extremely difficult: for:
1 the present staff to put across such an
annual as they had wished, The publica-
tion of the annual will be held up until
all of the debt, which
last year has been paid.

TOBE JOHNSON
DOES IT RIGHT

CLEANING AND
PRESSING

inakes

was contracted
The payment |
» of this debt is an exceedingly hard mat-
ter to attend to correctly; and a great |
deal of effort must be put forth in or-|

. der that the annual come out on time! Old P. O. Building
this year. i ——
Victrolas Furniture, Rugs

Victor Records Draperies and

Steinway Pianos

; Interior Decorations
Player Pianos

and Pianola
We Make Designs and Erect
Draperies and Carpets for
Homes, Lodge Rooms
Society Halls, Etc.

Reproducing
Pianos

Player Piano Rolls

Parker-Gardner Company

CH RL ITE,N. C.

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY
REGISTERED PHARMACISTS

We carry a complete line of Candies
Stationery and Toilet Articles

1 .WHITE DRUG COMPANY |

