Das -

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 22, 1923

— ——— . Por = pews. rn - - oi eaaa =
- : U ‘ | eous ar, lent on or no i on
DAVIDSON Well Known Speaker South Carolina Takes [ 2... GSAd Bifee’ son ety aibent-t0 (fet HL
FIVE YEARS AGO Secured for Addresses ; Wildkitten’s Measure Literary Societies etes to come here. The judges voted three to

Five years ago Davidson was playing. her
traditional enemy and hardest foe. She met
Carolina in Winston and came off with the
big end of a 14-7 score. The Wildcats scrap-
ped and clawed their way to a clean-cut vic-
tory only by sheer grit and spirit. The team
fought for every inch of the ground and at
one time the snarling Wildcat team held
Carolina for three downs one foot from the
goal line. The feature of the game was a
pass and run by Johnson for 80 yards, which
scored the first touchdown. Carolina threat-
ened: several times but went over only once
on line plays. The Davidson team showed
up splendidly and covered itself with glory by
the wonderful scrap that was put up.

In one hour 350 Davidson students sub-
scribed $7,179.50 for the United War Work
Campaign which is being held all over the
country. The amount allotted to Davidson
was $4,000, but this limit was soon reached,
and a-new goal was fixed so that students
would give to their greatest capacity. The
spirit of co-operation and self-sacrifice ex-
hibited by the student body is a sure sign of

their splendid character and love for coun-
try. .

The S. A. T. C, which has been the bane
of many Students because of the early rising
hour and the large amount of manual labor
connected with it, is soon to be replaced by
a new organization. This new organization
will not be as rigid as the old’S: “A, T: Gi
nor will it be as irksome to the students as
a whole. Only three hours of drill a week
will be required, and only a small amount of
classroom work. The new organization will
be called the R. O. T. C. (Reserved Officers
Training Corps.)

INTERCOLEGIATE TEAM

(Continued from page 1)
and are sparing no efforts to win the decision
for Davidson. Washington and Lee def eated
the Wildcat debaters at Lexington last year,
and the upholders of the Red and Black are
out te even the score.

Stith, who will open the argument for Wa-
vidson, entered the Wildcat ranks this year,
coming from Stetson University, where he
distinguished himself in forensic circles, rep-
resenting that school in intercollegiate debat-
ing last year,

Hollingsworth, the second speaker for Da-
vidson, is in his Sophomore year, and has
already shown himself to be an outstanding
man in literary circles, During his Fresh-
man year he captured both the debating and
declaiming medals in the Fresh-Soph_con-
tests in the Pandeinic Society, and was a
strong contender in “the intercollegiate pre-
liminaries last spring. He is sure to carry
his part of the burden to the honor of old
Davidson,

Walthall is well-known in scholastic circles
for his literary work, Duke is president of
the Pandeinic Society, having previously
served as critic. During his Junior year he
won the Junior-Senior Debater’s medal in
his society.

Others who entered the preliminaries, and
who deserve credit for their work, are Harry

Price, D. B. Wharton, P. M. Patterson and
E. T. Pullen.

LOOK
MEN

AL

or plated watch.

remembered forever.

one while they last.

ion elephone Bryant 10259

UCN

Several Days—Is Widely-Read
Author

address the Davidson college Y. M. C. A.,,
December 2nd to 4th, inclusive. It is prob-
able that he will also speak at the church on
Sunday morning, December 2nd.

The speaker is booked to deliver a series
of addresses in Durham the last week of
November. The local Y. M. C. A. officers,
finding that he would be so close, got to
work at once and managed to secure him for
Davidson students.

Mr. Gordon has spoken to thousands. He
became a public speaker in 1895 and has
traveled widely, delivering his talks on re-
ligion. He is also the author of
pamphlets dealing with different phases of
religion. The speaker has been connected
with Y. M. C. A. work for a great number
of years, having served as secretary in Phila-
delphia and also as state secretary of Ohio.
His trip to Durham will be his second one.
The business men of the tobacco city were so
pleased with him the first time that they have
secured him again.

“Davidson students will have the opportun-
ity of hearing Mr. Gordon probably twice
a day during the time he is here. He is a
powerful speaker and drives his points home.

HILLHOUSE MAKES FINE
ADDRESS

(Continued from page 1)

of the church lay,” Albert said, “in the
hypocrisy of many of its members. Those
men who live Sunday correctly and are care-
ful about their own selves, but let the man
in the gutter go on in his ruinous way are
like the Pharisees who pull away their cloaix
lest they be contaminated. Upon such, we
remember, Christ poured His strongest con-
demnation.” i

In closing Hillhouse gave some of the
needs of men today. He showed how this
country is filled to superfluity with doctors,
lawyers, teachers, and yet the world outside
is lacking and calling for them, Our nation
has churches and organizations in abundance
in some sections, especially in the cities,
where organizations are too numerous, yet
the world is in need and one-half have not
heard of Christ. Our own land is not living
Christianity and has failed to lead the world
toward better living.

“Tt is up to every college man,” Hillhouse
said, “to consider what his attitude shall be.
How shall we fit in? Shall we take a sane
view of world conditions, and seeing the need
of men of power and courage, go forth to

| give our best for our fellowman, or shall we

think that the world’s trouble is too great
for us to help in remedying and thus go forth
with the desire to make the best. for our-
selves?” To Christ, who told men of the
white fields of harvest and reprimanded them
for standing all the day idle in the midst of
work to do, we will have to answer at last.
“Each of us must ask himself the question,
Shall I fail to answer to the ‘Need of a

cc :

$42°%2| SPECIAL
HOLIDAY

Opportunity of a Life Time

Don’t spend your hard earned money foolishly and buy for
Father, Brother, Husband or Sweetheart, a cheap gold-filled

Give him the best there is, it is the cheapest in the end, to be

Limited quantity, genuine, solid 14 (fourteen) karat Gold
watches, Plain, engraved, thin or octagon shape. Elgin or
Waltham movements, fifteen jewelled, or Illinois twenty-one
jewelled movements. Guarantee enclosed with every watch.
Send Post Office order now, don’t delay, and receive watch
immediately sent to you, registered, fully insured, packed in ,
expensive, beautiful lined gift case. Act quick.

Wonderful 18 (eighteen) karat, solid-gold,
white or green wrist watches, latest designs,
octagon shape models, full jewelled_. The very
thing that you have wanted, and admired on
others. Now in the reach of everybody. Get

EXCLUSIVE WATCH CO.
1482 Broadway, N. Y. C.

world of men for me’ ?”

OFFER

UL

Attention
Ladies

: |
Mr. S. D. Gordon, a widely known author | last W
and powerful speaker, has been secured to 40-14

several |

S. D. Gordon Will be at Davidson Freshman Defeated by Big Score of ©

40-14—Both Teams Used
Aerial Route for Scores

The South Carolina Freshmen succeeded |
ednesday in defeating the Wildkittens, |
, after four quarters of hard fighung |
}and numerous breaks in their favor, ‘he |
| South Carolinians out weighed the Kittens |
at least ten pounds and used this weight to
| great advantage.
| It was a hard-fought game from start to |
|finish. Both sides used the forward pass as |
|the main method of attack. Hewlett ran the |
‘team like a veteran and showed great head- |
| work. He also did the passing and did it |
| well except once when a Carolina tackle got
|to him before he could throw the ball. |
Sapp started on the offense, making many |
yards through the line and “around end. |
Legette and Allen played air-tight ball
on the defense and threw the Carolina backs
for substantial losses several times. Green |
showed up well in the line until he was re-
moved on account of injuries. Bohannan
played a good game at end and broke up |
several trick plays before they got started. |
Johnson, who only played a few Ante, |
caught a pass and’ ran through the whole |
{Carolina backfield for Davidson’s second
| touchdown.

Davidson's first counter came after Allen
had intercepted a pass in midfield. Hewlett
passed another pass to Allen for nine yards.
A pass and line play resulted in no gain.
Sapp made it first down, a line buck foiled
and a pass was grounded. Pinkney caught a
pass and ran to the cight yard line. Leg-
gette added one and Sapp then made a touch-
down, scoring through the line. Lincoln
kicked goal,

Davidson's second touchdown came after
Carolina had punted across the goal line.
Sapp was thrown for a 6-yard loss. Two |}
passes in quick succession were good for 40
yards. Two more passes failed, and then
Sapp passed one to Johnston who ran 25
yards through the Carolina backs for
touchdown, Lincoln again kicked goal.

a

JUNIOR-SENIOR DEBATE
AROUSING GREAT INTEREST

The inter-socicty Junior-Senior debate is
arousing much interest among the members
of the societies as the time approaches for
| the semi-finals to be held.

As yet only one so¢iety’ has selected its
| team, that being the Pandeinic. This society
j will be represented by A. P. Hudgins, L. B.
| Gibbs, and D. B. Walthall. The Philanthropic
| Society held its preliminaries last Monday
\night, while the Metrophilians tried out on
the following Wednesday.

The semi-finals will be held on. November
21ist and 23rd. On the 21st the Pandeinic
and Metrophilian societies will debate, the
Pandeinic upholding the negative. On the
23rd, the Eu’s and Phi's will meet, the Eu-
menean defending the negative. The winner
of each of these debates will meet on De-
cember 7th for the final fray.

The query, “Resolved, That Congress at
its coming session should enact legislation to
|relieve the wheat-growers of the U. S. by
| guaranteeing them a price sufficient to net
|at least ten per cent over the cost of wheat
| production as estimated by government statis-
tics,” affords an opportunity for a fine de-
bate.

It may be of interest to note that last year
the Pandeinic society won the debating cup.

STUDENT BIBLE CLASSES
HAVE PROVEN SUCCESSFUL

The success of the new Sunday morning
Bible classes has been assured by the good
attendance which these classes have received
for the past few weeks. The new plan of
studying student problems and their solu-
tions instead of merely studying the Bible,
has secured the immediate approval of the
student body.

These meetings follow: the general line of
discussion suggested in the text-book Student
Standards of Action. Some of these prob-
lems which have been discussed are Read-
justments, An Expense Account and Real
Efficiency.

Every Wednesday night at 9:30 the lead-
ers meet with Professor Fleagle to prepare
the next Sunday's lesson. Professor Fleagle
not only makes valuable suggestions of his
own, but also discusses and points the solu-
tion to those problems which the individual
leaders bring to him! Undoubtedly the ex-
cellent advice of Professor Fleagle to the
leaders has been one of the main reasons for
the success of these meetings.

The topic for next Sunday is College
Friendships.

Pandeinic

An interesting program was staged at the
last meeting of the Pandeinic. The question
for debate was: Resolved, That Congress. at
its coming session should enact legislation to
relieve the wheat growers of the U. S. by
quaranteeing to them a price sufficient to net
at least 10 per cent profit over the cost of
porduction as estimated by government
statistics. Milton and Rice debated on the
affirmative while Zimmerman and Pitts op-
posed them. Everyone had prepared well for
the debate. The affirmative were given the
decision.

Ford had a fine oration on: The Effi-
ciency of the German School System, and
R. M. Carr had prepared some rather trivial
and amusing current events.

There was a discussion about the advisi-
bility of having a society key or pin. No
definite action was taken, it being deferred
until the next society meeting. The night of
the Fresh-Soph declamation contest was
fixed as December 4th.

Senior Eumenean
The house was called to order by the presi-
dent, and after the scripture reading, Bragaw
led in prayer. The debate was upheld on the
affirmative side by W. H. Allison, F. N.

| Anderson, and B. C. Bell, the latter being

chosen from the house. On the negative were
A. C, Wildman, N. Sullivan and A. T.
Rowe. The negative won the debate.

P. B. Freeland gave an oration on “Peter
Stuart Ney,” and J. I. Smith acted as re-
viewer,

Philanthropic

The Philanthropic Literary Society met in
regular session last Thursday night, and an
interesting program was rendered. The sub-
ject for debate was: Resolved, That congress
at its next session should enact legislation
guaranteeing to wheat growers of the United
States,.a net profit of at least 10 per cent
of the: cost of growing wheat, as estimated
by government statistics. The debaters were:
W. J. Calhoun, B. U. Ratchford on the af-
tirmative, and H. D. Burke, D. M. Curry on
the negative. The judges rendered their de-
cision unanimously in favor of the negative.

After the regular debate was given, H. Y.
Alexander on the affirmative, and W. H.
Fitts on the negative, gave an extemporan-

nothing in favor of the negative. The clos-
ing event was an oration, The Value of a
Purpose, by H. M. White, which received
much applause from the society. As a
whole it was a good program and was
thoroughly enjoyed by those present.

Junior Eumeneans .

Since there was no program prepared the
president of the society called on T. T. Jones
for an oration on: The Recent Armistice
Day Celebration on the Davidson Campus;
F, Earnest for his opinion on: America’s
Victory in the World War, and E. C; Car-
roll to explain the Value of Stage Training
to the Public Speaker. The subject for de-
bate was: Resolved, That State Colleges
are more efficient than Church Colleges.
The affirmative was upheld by Williams,
Alexander and Shelby. On the negative were
Lynch, Love-and Woods. Judges voted in
favor of the negative. The criticism by
Branch, the reviewer, was complimentary to
all.

Metrophilian

The Metrophilian Literary Society held its
regular meeting November 13th, and after
the regular program was dispensed with, the
election of officers was held.

Those elected were: President, R. L.
Price; vice-president, J. E. Singletary; sec-
retary, Parker.

First critic, Henderson; second critic,
Trawick. Supervisors: Pullen, first super-
visor; McIntosh, second supervisor.

The Fresh-Soph Declamation contest will
be held December 4th.

ALUMNI ON HILL FOR PHI
GAMMA Oe eTION INSTALLA-

Dr. F. H. Baker, C. & O. Hospital, Clif-
ton Forge, Va.; L. B. McKeithen, Cameron,
S. C.; A. T. Cashion, Gastonia, N. C.; E. A.
Noah, Winston-Salem, N. C.; M. R.
Doubles, Richmond, Va.; M. A. Siske, U.
of Va.; L. P. Good, Johns-Hopkins; E. T.
Woolfolk, Tunica, Miss.; M. B. Foil, Con-
cord, N. C.; W. H. Moore, Concord, N. C.;
J. G. Richards, Liberty Hill, S. C.; M. M.
Erwin, Honea Path, S. C.; W. H. Miley,
Cooleemee, N. C.; W. E. Covington, Lenoir,
N. C.; C. H. Long, Winston-Salem, N. C.;
D. M. Chalmers, Richmond, Va.; J. M.
Gaston, Lowell, N. C.;:F. P. Hall, Belmont,
N. C.; R. D. Hall, Belmont, N. C.

BELK BROS. CO.

Clothing Department

Weare showing a complete line College Boys’
Suits, Hats and Furnishing Goods at attrac-
tive prices. Come in and see what wonderful
values we have to offer.

YOUNG MEN’S HAND-TAILORED SUITS
‘Schloss, Styleplus and Belk hand-tailored
Suits made in the Season’s Newest Patterns

and Materials at

$25.00, $29.50, $35.00, and $39.50

NEW FELT HATS
New Fall Hats in Snappy Shapes and Patterns
$2.95, $3.95, $4.95, and $7.00

MEN’S DRESS SHIRTS

Men’s fine dress shirts made of best grade
Percal and Madras, made with and without

98c, $1.50, and $2.00

MEN’S TIES
Silk and Knit Ties, new shapes and beautiful

48c, 75c, 98c, and $1.50
MEN’S UNDERWEAR

Men’s Nainsook unionsuits, all sizes
48c, 63c, 98c

Men’s medium weight unionsuits

98c, $1.25, $1.50
MEN’S HOSIERY ‘2:

Men’s lisle hose, all the leading colors

25c and 35c

collars.

colors.

Men’s silk sox

(———

48c, 85, $1.00
