4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 20, 1923

eee ee eum

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY

CLASS OF '15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
1o Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

LISTON D. ELKINS
REGINALD L, PRICE

segcisues Editor-in-Chief
Business M

Editorial Staff
C. M. S. McILWAINE.....-.Managing Editor

Assistant Managing Editor W. Z. BRADFORD Associate Editor

“Assistant Managing Editor A, C, WILDMAN Associate rah ede

AY. ---Athletic Editor W. M. COX. Associate Editor

ut ‘Parcher Editor O. J. ALLISON. Alumni Editor

Business Staff Maa

P. J. STORY-_-.- --Subscription J. M. --;---~---Assistan
WATT McCAIN. tion ManaKee K. S. McALP Service GHEY Sas
i A. THOMPSO --Assistant Manager W. H. CROMW -Bookkeeper
- H. LYNCH Typist W. R. HOUGH- ..-Advertising

WATT McCAIN, Manager

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT

J. A. THOMPSON, Assistant Manager

HURD, A. M., Pre
WHARTON, D. B.
BAD ue M.

Walters MIL

REPORTERS’ CLUB

MARSHALL, C. K.
MILLIHOUS, J. F.

TON,
MONK, C, F.

BOW! MORROW, G. M. SHAW, H. DL.
O'CONNOR, FE, P. STOREY, P. J.
PATTON, J. TH. WHITE, H, M.
PITTS, B. Y. WILLIAMS, J. M.
RATCHFORD, B. U. SMITH, C, F-

REC

W. E. ROGERS, G, D.
THOMPSON, J. B.

EDITORIAL

CHRISTMAS GREETINGS

a
J
thing new in stockings.

ep)

A poet sings, “Oh, what will the Christmas bring ?”

his is the season of the year when everybody is looking for some-
1

Bills, sir, bills.

D

It really requires a marvelous amount of tact to appear thankful at
Christmas for something you didn’t want.

1D.

Use a little judgment in buying C

girl a pair of No. 8 boots, or purchase
D

hristmas presents, Don’t give your
a looking-glass for a blind aunt.

The Christmas bell as it rings o’er this old world of ours is trying with

all its might to sing, “The Heart of the Eternal is most wonderfully kind.” |

So kind, it folds itself in the wee form

of a babe and rests in the manger of

Bethlehem and lets a sweet, holy mother adore it.

God knew this babe gift would bl

yssom forth and its fragrance fill the |
world. He knew that childhod would be the object of loving care and |

presents rich and rare.would sparkle on fir-boughs at Christmas time. He
knew that the dark days of December would be luminous with a heaven- GOpevaeettlemne wine riesede tnereyee inten
: \ : : > new men who left last year he

light from the babe. He knew that all these things would be, so he sent | : :

the babe into the world.

D

THE CHRISTMAS TOPIC

INETEEN htumdred and twenty-three years ago at Bethlehem in

Judea, was born an infant of humble parentage. With that child |

’

was born into the world a new civilization, a new Christianity, a

new hope. It matters little to our rejc

icing whether this Child was human

or divine—whether he was God ox God’s messenger of Jove. Christian and

infidel alike agree that the life He led was pure and blameless and the

principles He taught have blessed anc

1 sanctified the world. All over the

country, all over the world—a few years hence it will be all through the
air—sounds the greeting Merry Christmas! On the sea and land, to the
palace and in the hovel, in the hospitals and in the prisons, in the asylums
amid the orphans and in the homes for the friendless and for the aged,
wherever even two persons meet who know and love the story of Christ-

mas, the greeting is exchanged.
universal greeting? Is there an
of this cheerful and heartfelt word?

nothing so much as the doves to the alt

for surely the sentiment flits from alt
is as gentle as the dove. Grudges and

Where can there be a parallel to the,
y other sentiment that has the sovereignty

It travels through the mails like
ars of which the Scripture speaks,

ar to altar of the hearts of men and

animosity vanish before the waiting

of Christmas greeting, the smile of hope illumines the countenance of those
under the pall of depression, the dimpled cheeks of the babies seem like

veritable nooks for fairy hidin
Christmas, with the little embl
its loving parent.

g asthe lips coo in response to the Merry
em of the day that comes to the infant from
In the days of romance hostile forces passed upon the
field, sheathed their swords and clasped hands across the battle line,
ing one another With the sentiment of universal good will.

greet-

DAVIDSON DEBATING TEAM

(Continued from page 1)
ther provision was for certificates abroad
to allow immigrants to enter the United
States, thus enabling this country to pick
in some way its future citizens. It was
emphasized that the present law was
merely a makeshift.

The rebuttals came with the best ex-
hibition of fight and clash of the whole
debate. Throughout the first speeches
much argument was used on both sides
but as the debate entered into its final
phase it became evident that some real
differences of opinion were to be thor-

oughly thrashed out.

Stith urged the validity of the two.

per cen provision because it would
temedy present evils by allowing mainly
those of Nordic stock to enter.

Masinter’s speech was full of pep and
he claimed that the present law was
working to very good advantage and he
doubted the value of the new law since
it differed so little from the present one.

Hollingsworh clinched he arguments
for the negative in the best rebuttal of
the evening. He reviewed the stand of
the validity of much of the affirmative’s
authority.

Lowry closed the debate with a strong
speech in which he emphasized the lack
of Nordics wishing to enter this country
and the fact that men of the Italian type
were much needed. He quoted to show
that these types are very desirable.

|

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00

rr
| Open Forum |

| (This department is conducted by the editor,
|for the benefit of those members of the stu-
| dent body? or faculty, who desire to express
| their opinions on any matter which might arise
during the collegiate year. It is the hope of*the
| Davidsonian staff that the column will be con-
| ducted for the betterment of compus life, and
that the students will express themselves freely
and enter into open-hearted discussions on
|campus problems. The names of the writers
| will be withheld from publication, if such is the
desire of the writer. Al! articles must be handed
| in to the Editor of the Davidsonian by 7:00 p. m.
Monday.)

THE COURT OF CONTROL

“The old order changeth, yielding place
to new.”

What do you think of the behavior of the
| present Freshman class, as individuals? If
lany have taken unwarranted liberties with
| you have you given the present system a fair
| trial by turning them over to the proper au-
thority? Iave you the right attitude toward
the Freshman class?

The attitude of the upper classes toward
the new men is taken for granted to be cor-
rect. The attitude of the Freshmen is never
assumed to be the proper one. But do you
realize that it is very probable that the atti-
tude of the majority of the Freshmen toward
the upperclassmen is a correct one? Were it
not there would have been some vital change
in the Freshmen’s attitude toward his Se-
niors with the advancing years. Yet the at-

\titude of the new men remains primarily the
same, whereas the attitude of the upper
classes changes from year to year.

High school and prep school graduates,

year after year, are much the same. The
percentage law can be applied to a new class
as well as to anything else. Each session has
jits certain per cent of “uppity” Freshmen.
That percentage remains practically constant
from year to year, Extreme freshness is a
trait belonging to a fair percentage of men
of Freshman age; circumstances affect. the
percentage little if any.

It is this trait in a few men which marks

the Freshman class as a class. But for their
ignorance, the majority, perhaps a bare ma-
jority, could not be distinctly set apart as
Freshmen, If you entered Davidson, say, in
your third year, a new man, could: you pick
out a majority of the Freshmen as members
of the fourth year class, did they not wear
caps ? their crude self-assertiveness
distinguish the majority? The majority of
Freshmen are not fresh, they are nauseating-
ily ignorant. Think it over.

No need here to go into the damage haz-

ing was doing Davidson College. Every up-
perclassman knows of the half a score and
more new men who left early in September,
| 1922, giving as their reason’ for leaving, the
hazing existing at that time. This exodus
has occurred regularly for years. It has not
occurred September, 1923,

Does

'graduated with high honors the preceding
| June from one of the largest prep schools in
the South. Shortly after he left Davidson
| the chief executive of his prep alma mater
| Wrote the officials here that he would see to
it that no other graduates of that school en-
tered Davidson until the Freshmen
treated differently.

The refusal of individuals to contribute to
the Chambers campaign because hazing was
in existence, is known, and these results of
hazing mentioned are by no means all. The
attitude of the body of Davidson supporters
throughout the South with regard to hazing
can well be realized by the letters that poured
in to the college officials expressing com-
mendation at the action taken by the stu-
dents in abolition of hazing last year.

Hazing stock is on the decline. Colleges
throughout the country are taking the final
steps in its eradication. Progress moves for-
ward and Davidson is in its advance guard.

Does the Court Control adequately
handle the Freshmen? If there are if-
provements that can be made, what are they ?
No system is perfected upon installation; it
is the result of evolution’. What can you
add that will help the evolution of the Court ?
These are pertinent questions. What is your

were

of

answer ?

At present the ignorance of the incoming
men is handled by a series of talks on phases
of college life to the Freshmen groups. Each
| group of about 40 men is in charge of some
| upperclassmen and the talks are delivered by

| the leading men, of the two upper classes. |

| The “impossible cases” are regulated by pen-
lalties varying in degree from confining to
| the campus and being forced to wear the yel-
low cap to suspension or worse by the Stu-
dent Council, on the recommendation of the
Court, in extreme cases.

What do you think about the Court? If

help better conditions. If you have any
ideas as to how the Freshmen should be
handled, air; them here! Let’s evolute the
Court a little bit this year.

you don’t like some of the things said here, |
answer through this medium. Perhaps we!
can bring up some suggestion -which will |

| CHARLOTTE PASTOR

“ (Continued from page 1)
stream. The town of Beaufont
water abundantly.”

Mr. McIlwaine also told the story of
a native Indian, who was weak with a
great and terrible disease. As he lay on
the floor in his hut, he saw a huge cobra
crawl into his room and slowly come
toward him. He had life, but in such
small quantity that when the cabra
struck him, he died. ,

Another man, strong and powerful,
came into the room, and killed the ser-
pent. He had life more abundantly.

“There are those of us who have some
life, but are weak and easily overcome.
Let us seek after the more abundant
life!

“But where are we to get this more
abundant life? Christ says, ‘I am the
vine, ye are the branches,’ Just as wild
roses may be grafted on to other roots,
and made into beautiful flowers, by
drawing life and beauty from the stem,
so may we gain the strength, the abun-
dant life, from the True. Vine, the Source
of Life. We may gain that more abun-
dant life, through putting our lives in-
to His hands.

“Men are apt to say their lives are
not intended as models for anyone. But
Christ intended the lives of His follow-
ers to be lived that would speak for
Him. The of Christians are the
greatest testimonies of the Christian
religion, and not sermons from the pul-
pit.

lives

A Christian's life should draw oth-
ers to Christ.

“The fact that you are a Christian
should and does place an obligation on
you to lead a more exemplary life than
your fellowman who is a non-professor
of Christ. It should lead you to do your
scholastic duties better, to play a hard-
er, fairer game on the athletic field, and
to be a better man in all respects.”

The speaker brought in an incident in
_ which cight men were discussing Sunday
golf. Six of these men said it was all
right to play the game on Sunday, while
two opposed it. The six who favored
playing golf on the Lord’s Day were pro-
fessing Christians, while those opposing
it were men who did not publicly ac-
klowledge their profession of Christ.
“This is what is keeping men from ac-
knowledging and ‘professing the religion
of Christ.”

“Live life in Christ, the source of
power, and have life, and having life,
have it more abundantly.”

Ted Jones led the meeting, introducing
the speaker, Perrin Hudgin led in pray-
er, and W. L, Hodgkin was the pianist
for the evening,

a

ACHIEVEMENT ALONG.
MANY LINES

(Continued from page 1)
er Hall nor College Church are 1
cnough to accommodate the crowds I
cent at college functions.

,during the year toward beautifying the
campus,

appointed
and

superintendent of Buildings
Grounds. 3ecause of the many
building operations at Davidson in the
Past two years, the lawns about the dor-
mitories have been seriously injured
and protective measures have been in-
stituted to return the campus to the
beauty which characterized it in former
years,

Mrs. Smith, the college matron has al-
so done much toward beautifying the
dormitories, and under her management
the janitor system has been greatly im-
proved,

Coach W. kL. Younger accepted the
position of head coach at Davidson, be-
ginning September Ist and has done
much toward rejuvenating the athletic
system. The D Club is in the process of
reorganization and all the letter men are
heartily in favor of Coach Monk’s sys-
tem,

All in all, 1923 is a year which will
long be remembered in Davidson annals.

E, J. ERWIN MAKES LIST
(Continued from page 1)
Bernard Shaw—Man and Superman;
Candida, :
Maurice Maeterlinck—The Blue Bird;
Monna Vanna. i
J. M. Barrie—What
Knows; Peter Pan.
Franz Molnar—Liliom.
Poetry
Noyes—Tales of the. Mermaid Tavern.
Masefield—The
| The Widow in the Bye Street.
| Rudyard Kipling—Poems.
Edgar Lee Masters—Spoon
| Anthology.

Every) Woman

NE
res -

A concerted move has also been made!

has |

At a mass meeting on December 3rd, of
all prospective players, Coach Doak officially
opened the basketball season at Guilford.
Suits were issued to 25 men. . Several squads
were organized, and a schedule was adopted
that will keep the court occupied for all the
remaining practice period before the opening
game. The varsity as before will have the
floor every night. The afternoons will be
taken up with scrub squads of various
strength.—The Guilfordian.

An average of 75 is required of all stu-
dents at West Virginia University for grad-
uation, according to a new faculty ruling,
Seventy is the passing mark, but the average
must be 7 for the four years’ course.—The
Flat Hat.

Furman ranks second in the S, I, A. A.
being topped only by Centre College. The
Purple Hurricane, has made an enviable rec-
ord this fall, bowing to only one association
team. Mercer defeated Furman 6 to 3. Un-
questionably the showing Furman made
against the Virginia clevens was a strong
factor in determining her all-Southern rating.
It is tragic from Furman’s standpoint, that
Mercer escaped the Hurricane,-The Hornet.

The Yale student council has drawn up a
pledge which all are supposed to sign, to the
effect that in the future they will not take
any part in “noisy or riotous actions or
demonstrations in the streets or other public
grounds of the city of New Haven.” More-
over, a fine of 75 cents was levied on all
Sophomores’ who took part in a riot last
June, for the purpose “of defraying the ex-
penses of that disorder.—The Yellow Jacket.

Following the precedent set by Washington
and Lee and other universities throughout the
country, the V. M. . Corps has decided to
give to all men who have been on a" publica-
tion for two years an emblem to show the
appreciation of the work being done by stu-
dent newspapers. Seven men are eligible for
these charms, miniature gold _ printing

'presses—-The Flat Hat.

|hours daily.

| victorious

Mr. D, B. Van Sant has been)

On the basis of schedules prepared by 200
students, Dartmouth College has worked out
an estimate of the division of time made by
the average undergraduate at Dartmouth.

The results show that he works nine hours
a day and sleeps cight and a quarter hours.
His itemized account of the time spent in
recreation shows a total of five and one-half
That leaves one hour and a
quarter unaccounted for, which probably can
be added to the total given under recreation.

—The Tar-Heel.

The University of North Carolina was
over the University of South
Carolina in the first intercollegiate debate of
the. year, which was held in Gerrard Hall,
Saturday night. The subject was, Resolved,
That a Constitutional Amendment be Adopt-
ed Giving Congress the Power to Pass a
Federal Divorce Act.—The Tar-Heel.

The Senior Class of Eureka College has
revived an old custom of burying a fruit
cake at the beginning of their Senior year
and unearthing it at commencement time and
having a feast. It was customary for the
Junior class, provided they found’the cake, to
change the hiding place. There it would re-
main until their Senior year—The Vander-
bilt Hustler.

LARGER LAUNDRY TO BE
BUILT FOR MORE
EFFICIENT SERVICE

For some time there has been a rumor
abroad that the college laundry is to undergo
several much-needed changes. It has been
proposed that the laundry be moved to a
more convenient site. A second proposal
and one of more importance is that concern-
ing enlargement. In September, 1920, the
present laundry started its work. The ca-
pacity of laundering at that time was such
that 400 people might be accommodated.
Since that time the increase in demand has
been great. The laundry now serves nearly
twice that number, including many of Da-
vidson’s citizens. The weekly average of

| pieces handled now is approximately 18,000.

Yet despite this growth and inconvenience,

| the laundry has been doing its work as well

as could be expected. Mr. Helper, the man-

Everlasting Mercy; | ager, states that though no definite action
| has been taken in the matter, it is understood
that wker school operis next year, a larger

River|and more convenient building will be the

home of the college laundry.
