THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 19, 1923

6
FIRE-PROOF BARRACKS MY MOTHER’S WORDS a school address at Semora, Person county,
Re INT FLAME Do you know that your soul is of my soul this being the occasion of his visit to his
NE JS such a part home. Chef McAlpine, '22, is principal at
Davidson has eeased he oo n, vulgar That you seem to be fibre and core of my |Semora.
. i heart? —
: method of building destruction by means]. > h the
PASTOR MAKES STRONG |DAVIDSONIANS ATTEND [of fire and has resorted to the new scalding None el can pein me a8 you, Son, can aed resin tytedperieg vole fees saavitle
plan. This new idea was tried out on South ’ rte ? fiat aie Mi Gras ive
DEFENSE FOR MIRACLES CONCORD CON VENTION Dormitory last Friday and proved very suc- None ae can please me or praise me a vee e ehbitins Cubes, Se Wills,
cessful.

Doctor Richards chose as his text last
Sunday morning the 22nd verse of the 2nd
chapter of Acts, “Ye men of Israel, hear
these words; Jesus of Nazareth, a man ap-
proved of God among you by miracles and
wonders and signs, which God did by him
in the midst of you, as ye yourselves also
know:” Dr. Richards stated that miracles
were much used. “Christ, the Saviour, and
miracles, stand together all through the
Bible narrative. There are different classes
of peoples who have different views of mir-
acles. Some say there are no miracles be-
cause there is no personal God to perform
them. But the man who does not believe
in miracles must certainly believe in great
wonders, and many of those wonders are
greater than those recorded in the pages of
the Bible.”

“The beginning of our religion is in a mir-
acle and its progress is through a series of
miracles. Take away miracles and you have
destroyed Christianity. ;

“There are three kinds of miracles, those
of power, those of knowledge, and those of
grace.”

DAVIDSON OFFICIALS
- ATTEND PRESBYTERY

During the past week Dr. T. W. Lingle,
Dr. C. M. Richards and President Martin
attended the meeting of Concord presbytery,
held in the First Presbyterian Church of
Lenoir, N. C. It is of interest to note that
Rev.-A. A. McLean, of the class of ’05, a
trustee of: the College, is pastor of this
church, The presbytery convened Friday
and continued through Saturday.

On Friday morning Doctor Martin made
a very interesting talk on “Plans for Rais-
ing Money Necessary for Home Mission
Enterprises in the Presbytery.” Besides this
he gave several informal talks telling of the
activities of the College and the many im-
provements planned for the near future.

Among the Davidson Alumni present were
W. W. Moore '22, better known as “Coach”,
of Union Theological Seminary, who was
taken under the care of Presbytery as a can-
didate for the ministry. Rev. J. C. Story,
class of ’85, from Marion, N. C., father of
Paul Story of the Junior class, was pre-
sent also.

SHARPE AND O'CONNOR
SPEAK AT THYATIRA

Hiram Sharpe and E, P. O'Connor, under
the auspices of the Ministerial Band, went to
Thyatira Presbyterian church at China
Grove last Sunday. At the morning service
O'Connor spoke first. He told of the need
of recruits for life time service for Christ.
Hiram followed by making an impressive
appeal for the young people to give their
lives to Christian Service.

In the evening O’Connor spoke to the
young people, while Hiram went with Dr

E. D. Brown to Mt. Ulla and there also
presented the call of the ministry.

At night O’Connor, in a forceful speech
before the Young Layman’s Society, told
them the needs of the world. Hiram spoke
on the Purity of Christianity and its growth.

Altogether they made eight speeches, and
spoke to at least 600 people.

STUDENTS SUPPORT —__
WEEKLY BIBLE CLASSES

Reuben and Judah were studied last Wed-
nesday night in the Bible classes. There
are to be five more meetings this term at
each of which two of Jacob’s sons will be
discussed.

The leaders group meets every Tuesday
night with Prof. Foreman as leader. The
students are turning out well on most floors,
and are showing much interest in the work.
Anyone who has attended:one of these meet-
ings knows the good that can be obtained
by getting a group together and discussing
freely these topics of religious interest.
ea SUNDAY SCHOOLS

Many of the students are taking a keen
interest in helping with” the Sunday School
‘work at the various churches near David-
son. ig go out regularly to Shearer, the

The Annual convention of. the Southern
District of the North Carolina Christian
Endeavor Union was held in Concord, Sat-
urday and Sunday, April. 14 and 15. The
entire conference was a great success, ac-
cording to officers and prominent delegates
present.

Rev. J. G. Garth, of Charlotte, delivered
the principle address of the Saturday even-
ing session, and a delightful banquet was
enjoyed by the more than one hundred vis-
iting delegates. Rev. Mr. Daniels, Secre-
tary of Home Missions, delivered the Sun-
day morning sermon, using for his subject,

“Loyalty: During the afternoon — service
brief talks and discussions were led by the
delegates. The closing service Sunday

night also had as the chief speaker Mr.
Daniels, who spoke on A Successful Life.
Six members of the Christian Endeavor
Training Class attended the Sunday session
of the conference. During the afternoon
session T, A, Guiton reported on his work
as Quiet Hour Superintendent of the Dis-
trict, and Lee McLean gave a report of the
work of the Training Class. At the night
session Guiton was re-elected to his position
as Quiet Hour Superintendent.

Those attending the convention from Dav-
idson College were: J. L. McLean, T. A.
Guiton, Walter Bracey, S. R. Williamson,
Claud McIntosh and Yancey Bowie.

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVORERS
WORK IN MOORESVILLE

The Christian Endeavor Training Class
met at its usual time on Sunday afternoon.
Reports on deputations were given. It was
urged that those going on future deputations
stress the challenge to full-time Christian
service as the biggest thing for which Chris-
tian Endeavor stands.

L. L. Deck of the class went to the
Mooresville First Presbyterian Church and
conducted the Junior Expert Class. there.
The Junior Endeavorers all showed a keen
interest and many of them took an active
part in the meeting. Plans are being made
for the Training class in the near future to
go to Mooresville and lead the nfeeting of
the Senior Endeavorers, Davidson men are
always welcomed there and it is hoped that
a good number will go.

D.

DEPUTATION PLANNED
FOR GASTONIA CHURCH

John Grey and Wallace Moore will go to
Gastonia on the twenty-ninth of this month
on a “Y” deputation, where they will speak
to the young people in the First Presbyter-
ian Church there. They will lay special
emphasis on the personal problems of high-
school students, and their common problems |”
as members of the same student body. Clean
living and the wise choice of a life work
together with clean high school sports will

‘| be stressed in the talks.

Davidson, as’ the mountain-head of this
deputation work, has always stood for the
highest, and this method of working out
among those who have not yet come to col-
lege, in order to give them some of the ben-
efit of college men’s experiences proves of
great service both to the College and to
those visited.

DR. SENTELLE SPEAKS
AT UNION MEETING

Doctor Sentelle addressed the combined
Ministerial and Volunteer Bands in a meet-
ing Sunday morning, April 15. He dis-
cussed subjects vital to ministerial candi-
dates, “Should a college graduate spend a
year in teaching before entering a theologi-
cal seminary ?”

Doctor Sentelle says, “Yes”; for the fol-
lowing’ reasons. A minister needs tact, un-
derstanding, patience, and a working know-
ledge of human nature. All these he gains
in the school room. There he comes in in-
timate contact with human nature and human
character. He is able to study those who
are under him, and from that study to go
into his work with a usefulness and vigor
which he could never have possessed other-
wise.

Many men would rush the process of
equipping themselves for the sake of a year

or two of time. That course is an unwise

This very modern invention was accident-
ly discovered by Superintendent Stiles when
one of the, large steam pipes burst beneath
the stately pre
it was pre is unknown) structure.
The inmates continued serenely to smoke
their after-supper pipes until attention was
drawn by the shouts of those outside. Even
then some in the Eastern extremity. knew
nothing of the affair—this strange and al-
most unbelievable phenomenon is attributed
to the fact that the Barracks are entirely
sound-proof.
To one coming suddenly upon the scene
there was thrown open to him an imposing
picture.
hundred feet in height gushed upward with
a terrific rush. All view of the building
was obliterated. Windy Aiken in all earn-
estness spread the alarm of Fire!
Mr. Ryan. was on the scene and started in
at once to be a hero. He was heard to sigh,
“Well thank goodness there are no kitchen
stoves to take out.” Lord Helper was also
conspicuous by his presence and as usual he
had his trusty Pyrene. This gallant imme-
diately took charge of the busket brigade,
his previous experience at the McConnell fire
having qualified him for this responsible
task. His specialty is catching buckets from
the roof.
When the call for volunteers to go under
the Barracks to cut off the steam was is-
sued, “Awful” it was, who stepped bravely
forward. He was held back from this sig-
nal honor, for which he hoped to win a
medal like Mr. Ryan’s by his many friends
who feared that he might get wedged. This
they figured would put the Barracks on too
firm 4 fo tion.
Fresh Delinger who arrived on the scene
late demanded that it all be done over again
for his special benefit.
The loss is estimated at close on to three
dollars, this for new stea mpipes, and the
total loss would have been much more but
for the gallant work of the students, Some
‘have even ventured to place it at as much
as three dollars and ninety eight cents had
the whole building burned.

D.

Hippo Houck—Whom do I remind you
of ?

Ed Brown—Napoleon.

Hippo—Why, because I’m so brave?

Ed—No, because you're so dead.

A city and a chorus girl
Are much alike, ’tis true;

A city’s built with outskirts
And a chorus girl is too.

Overheard during Junior Speaking—
“T'll bet you a kiss I can steal a kiss from
you!”

“T’ll bet you two you can’t!”

“You win!”

one, It is true that the church needs men,
and needs them badly, but the church, for
its own sake, can well afford to wait for its
young men to become as well prepared as
EN  snineremmaor naimmmenennenr ae Se aA

war (the exact ‘war to which If shadow or stain ever darken your name;

A geyser of steam at least two}

Remember the world will be quick with its
blame

Like Mother, like Son, is saying so true
The world will judge largely of Mother by
you.

Be this, then, your task, if task it shall be
To force this proud world to do homage to

Cathey.

Rev. and Mrs. Frank Armstrong, and lit-

tle son, of Concord spent Monday with Mr.
and Mrs. M. H. Goodrum.

“Don’t you like that?”
“Yes, that’s fine.”
“It’s nice on the other side, too.”

me; =
Be sure it will say, when its verdict you've
won :
She reaps as she sowed: This man is her
Son.

—Exchange.

And when the day draws to a close,
May 1 be given sweet repose,
And know that I have helped some one,
By kindly deed and duty done.
—Exchange.
T).

Dv

“Mr. Hughey McConnell spent the week
end with his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Jesse
McConnell.

Mrs. A. L. Hobbs visited her mother,

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks

Eversharp Pencils Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens

Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Mrs. Curley, in Charlotte last week.

Baccalaureate Sermon—First

Nashville, Tenn.

James B. Gren, D. D.,

in the Seminary Chapel.

siding.

Columbia Theological icine |

COLUMBIA, SOUTH CAROLINA

JOHN M, WELLS, President
HUGH R. MURCHISON, Executive Secretary

day, May 6th, at 11:30 A. M., by Rev. Alexander
Martin, D. D., pastor of the Oakland Avenue Presby-
terian Church, of Rock Hill, South Carolina.

Sermon before The Society of Missionary Inquiry—Arse-
nal Hill Presbyterian Church, Sunday, May 6th, at
8:00 P. M., by Rev. Walter L. Caldwell, D. D., pas-
tor of the Woodland Street Presbyterian owlkaly

Tuesday, May 8th, 12M.—Meeting of the Board of Di-

rectors of Columbia Seminary.

Tuesday, May Sth, 8:00 P. M.—Inaugural address of Rev.

First Presbyterian Church.
Wednesday, May 9th, 11.00 A. M.—Graduating exercises

Hon. John T. Brantley, president of the Board, pre-

Presentation of diplomas and address by Rev. John
M. Wells, D. D., L. L. D., president of the Seminary.

Presbyterian Church, Sun-

as Professor of Theology.

Even the dearest occasion may borrow
a note of added fondness from a box of

