4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 12, 1923

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
Io Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

LISTON D. ELKINS.-.-......-Editor-in-Chief
REGINALD L., PRICE__--..Business Manager

Editorial Staff
C. M. S. McILWAINE..----- Managing Editor

LAKE_-----Assistant Managing Editor W. Z. BRADFORD-..----.---- Associate Editor
{. B. PRIC --Assistant Managing Editor A. C. WILDMAN --Associate Editor
W. F, CEP ON ee Sesceeswtecs Athletic Editor W. M. COX Associate Editor

Peanut Parcher Editor

aca 0. J. ALLISON -Alumni Editor

Business Staff

VteRMBRIGGSicsccecsucccsstan senses Advertising K, S. McALPIN__.-.--..----------Subscription

R. W. Ocland_ -Advertising W. H. CROMWELL---- ---------Bookkeeper

Ess OS LORVccesestacsavencs -Subscription A. M. HURD_---...-.-.-. Service Department
J. M. GARRISON_. SucucucassncctASeistant

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT
J. A. THOMPSON, Assistant Manager

REPORTERS’ CLUB

WALTHALL, D. _B., Pres.

WATT McCAIN, Manager

WHARTON, D. B., Vice-Pres.
ATTON, J. H., Sec’y-Treas.
ALLISON, O. J.

APPLEBY, J. M.

SALL, McP. S. STORY, P. J.
hOWIE, ACY. WHITE, Fie M.
EARNEST, J. 'R. WILLIAMS, J. M.

EDITORIAL

BLACK AND WHITE

ASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY has earned the admiration

of every college man in the South, Their refusal to participate in the

regular scheduled game with Washington and Jefferson, because of the
latter’s insistence on playing a negro in the varsity line-up, cost them a forfeit-
ure, technically, according to the ruling of the referee.

This action on the part of the Generals, although it may mean a momentary
defeat in the transient season of 1923, is a laurel on the brows of the team
from the Old Dominion. It is a victory in the fight the Southern colleges and
universities are waging against race equality in intercollegiate athletics.

Stand behind the Generals, college men of the South! They are taking
step which should be followed by every college in America. The Northern
school has gone beneath the yoke, but it is still the privilege of the Southern
teams to preserve their honor and self-respect. Southern athletes are white
from head to foot, and it is impossible to believe that they will ever
that policy of excluding the blood of Africa from their ranks,

to accept the-Virginia school's forfeiture. They prefer to have the game entered
on the pages of football history as a cancelled contest.

PENAL DRESS

The fool’s cap is the penalty for the unruly school boy; the striped jacket
is the penalty for the criminal; the yellow fresh cap is the penalty for
unappreciative freshmen who can not adapt themselves to the regulations of a
student body which has assumed a big-brothership over the new men,

We would not place the yellow-capped freshman in the class of fools, or of
criminals, but rather in a class of men who have no regard for necessary rule
and regulation, and who believe the law of the school to he their own personal
desire.

_ The upperclassmen of Davidson have resigned the use of the paddle in
favor of a kindly spirit of brotherhood and friendship. The,-reception of the

new class into the college life of Davidson has been described by a member of |

the faculty as being “the realization of a dream that has haunted him for years
—a beautiful, fraternal fellowship between upperclassmen and freshmen.”

The badge of yellow, prescribed by the Court of Control, to be worn as.a
head piece by all members of the new class who do not live in conformity with
the courts’ ruling, is a badge of dishonor. It is an indication that the wearer is
not in sympathy with the members of the upper classes in their attempt to revo-
lutionize campus life with regard to the treatment of freshmen,

Men of ’27, shun the “Scarlet Letter,” and show your loyalty to Davidson!
Be fair with yourself and be fair with the campus!

In the columns of this issue of The Davidsonian will he found the person-
nel of the Board of Control, a body constituted by the student body to handle
freshman regulation, Of all the organizations on the Hill, there is no body
which has the interest of the college more at heart than the Court of Control.
It is a working organization, Back them to the limit.

ON THE BAND MORROW SUFFERS DISASTER

This institution is credited with having a
band. The R. O. T. C. provides instruments
for such an organization. We hear noises
emanating from Shearer Hall periodically

better known to his associates as “Guy,”
wended his way to Shelton’s farm, and ac-

ay

‘for the frequent advance stories car-
depart from | ried under local correspondents’ name.
| They appreciate this courtsy ‘to the full-
Washington and Jefferson is to be commended for their spirit in declining |
| however, that Observer sports writers
|snub the Wildcats on every occasion
| when a fair and unbiased report would
| mean glory for the team. ;
| Can you tellus, Mr. Groome, why your
| Prejudice toward the little Presbyterian

On last Tuesday afternoon G. M. Morrow, |

seemingly made by an organization of the
above mentioned variety. Yet, when games
are played on our athletic field; when a pep
meeting is scheduled; when we want to give
the team a good send-off; when we want to
meet the team, the band, if it may be called
such, evidently takes to the talltimber. There
are/only two conclusions to be drawn from
this fact, either the man in charge hasn't
backbone enough and leadership enough to
get the men together, or else the band hasn't
‘uyalty anv spirit enough to assist their team
in their college when their services mean so
much, “Pep.”

,cepted a position with the manager of said
industry as assistant’ hay-pitcher.

As soon as Morrow had finished loading
his first wagon, he drove his team of spirit-
ed steeds to the barn, and as he was backing
his ‘wagon up to the hay loft’ the frame
caught on an open door of the barn, sending
his head first to the ground, right behind
one of the horses’ number twelve and a half,
which, by the way, did not happen to be
made of leather. The horse, hetoniag
frightened, stepped in Mr. Morrow’s face,
causing serious injury. Attending phy-
Sicians state that he will soon be in normal
health.

| PREJUDICE.

| “Reliable in News Service,” is one of
| the salient points advertised on the
| initial page of the Charlotte Observer.
| Students of Davidson College, and sup-
| porters_ of the
| throughout the South, and we venture to

| say free thinkers in general, are begin-

| ning to wonder if this same policy of |
| “reliability” has been drilled into Bailey |

Groome, of “One Man Opinion” fame, ‘

+and conductor of the Observer sport de-
partment.

Reliability to the nth degree is Groome, |
in one sense of the word, at least. We,
know that he will string the Chapel Hill!
Tar Heels from column one to column |
eight, and we can “rely” on his doing
it every week; we can rely, also, on his
suppression of everything that tends
| toward Wildcat praise.

“One Man’s Opinion” on a one horse}
sporting page! Duck shooting! Caro-
lina! A stray local article! Tar Heels!
Carolina! Now, you have read the}
Bailey Groome sport sheet!
Of the Davidson-V. P. I. game last Sat-
urday, a contest which has as much |
significance in the race for state cham-|
pionship honors as any game participa-
ted in by North Carolina teams, Mr.
Groome says nothing, and probably for
the reason that it might reflect credit on
the little Wildcat team. _Of the P. C.
game, two weeks ago, in Rock Hill, Mr.
Groome made a few comments which
were by no means recognized as grace-
ful to an athletic page, and which would
have been appropriate only as a gram-
mar school essay on football.
Mr. Groome, are you just out and out
antagonistic to Davidson? Or, do you
mean well, but just can’t arouse the
necessary punch and pep which is re-
quired to edit a creditable sport sheet?
Or is it your love for Carolina that dom-
inates the page to the exclusion of live
news concerning the Presbyterians?
The students of Davidson recognize
the Charlotte Observer as one of
the best dailies in the South, and they
believe the paper friendly to the col-
lege, but it is hard to recognize the
sporting section as a true Observer de-
partment. -As a result of the attitude
| taken by the Observer sport scribes to-
ward the Davidson football team this
season, over one hundred Observer sub-
scriptions were cancelled this week, in
favor of the Charlotte News.

The Davidsonians are not ungrateful

est. They can’t lose sight of the fact,

College, the school which your home city
| has “adopted as a foster child” (using
| the words of a prominent member of
| your Chamber of Commerce), is allowed
| to enter into your work of serving the
people of the South as a ‘herald of news?

| STATE CLUBS INAUGURATE
| NUMEROUS YEARLY FEEDS

Since the opening of the college, all state
clubs have gotten together and mapped out
their programs for the coming year. These
clubs arouse much interest in the boys be-
i sides fostering better fellowship among the
‘students from theseveral states.

Every Southern state is represented in the
student body, consequently most of these
clubs are Southern clubs.

The most spectacular club is the famous
|Sandlapper bunch. — This motly crowd is a
| very compact and unitary body of students,
| Under the able tutelage of J. Q. Smith, the
club has forged to the front with character-
listic energy. In the near future they hope
to hold a feed, where the South Carolinians
| will doubtless acquit themselves with honors.

The Virginians, also, are hustling in their
efforts to secure new students from the Old
Dominion, and the entire club js working
At present the presidential po-
sition on the club is being hotly contested
between A. Perrin Hudgins and D. Barclay
| Walthall, the Duke of Shenandoak, known
to readers both in poetry and fiction.

The Alligators, from Florida are assem-
bling and their ‘great enthusiasm for the
home state is being spread abroad through-
|out the campus. They are doing much good
|to bring the college to the attention of boys
|in Florida.
| R. R. Jones has assembled his cohorts
| from Texas, and although outnumbered, they
have gone into the game and seem to be
| causing much excitement on the campus.

splendidly.

Presbyterian eleven| their opinions on any matt

Open Forum

Exchanges

|

(This deartment is conducted by the editor, |

for the benefit ie Hoke Taco ee oh Sarnenbs

aculty, who desire .
Hiei OnE IobE GEOR STE er which might arise
during the collegiate year. It is the hope of the
Davidsoniah staff that the column will be con-
ducted for the betterment of compus Hip an
that the students will express themselves freely
and enter into open-hearted discussions on
campus problems. The names of the writers
will be withheld from publication, if such is the
desire of the writer. Al! articles must be handed
in to the Editor of the Davidsonian by 7:00 p. m.
Monday.) -

I WAS WONDERING
(Apologies to McAlpine)

About getting up early,

To see the team off

For V, P. I.

It was sort a hard,

Jut | remembered

The team had to get up,

Early too,

It was great,

; To send then_off

Amid yells and cheers
But I somehow felt,
Down in my heart
That maybe
When odds were against
The Wildcats,
They thought of that crowd
Cheering, as they left,
So carly in the morning;
And it made them drive
A lot harder,
For the honor
Of Old Davidson,
And now that it’s over
And the Wildcats fought so nobly,
I'm glad I got up
To see them off.
Are you?
O —('26.)

THE AQUA NUISANCE

Fellows, why is it that passing along Dor-
mitory Row we are continually bothered by
throwing of water? At no time, day or
night, are we safe from this nuisance. The
cause is due to thoughtlessness and careless-
ness on the part of a few individuals who
are inconsiderate of the rights of the rest
of the student body; ~~

On the surface the thing in itself seems
harmless conugh, but it causes ill feeling
and damage to college property: Also it is
discourteous, sometimes ladies drive up ina
car, hunting for someone. Then out from
some window comes a bag of water. No one
is hit, perhaps, but the throwing smacks of
discourtesy,

Ye water dispensers, be more thoughtful
and careful and let us end this nuisance and
damage to property and feelings as well.

XYZ—RM.

Bull-ettes

A NEW AMENDMENT:

The editor of a woman's college weekly
paper decries: the use of cosmetics, suggest-
ing morning jaunts through bosky dells and
sylvan forests, as a substitute for the chem-
ist’s make-up.

So rare a display of common sense! So
rare, even within the intellectual center of
feminine editors !

Maybe, when the United States accepts
the terms of the eighteenth amendment and
resigns itself to the observance of same, a
battle will be waged for the suppression of
varnish and calcimine. One fair editor starts
a worthy agitation,at least.

BLISSFUL:

When the professor asked what stable
currency was, in Eco class the other day,
and a bright boy answered, “The juice that
makes the lights burn in the horse stall,”
the bald head row joined in unison. A mem-
ber of the hairless crew answered the next
question by advising that the best time to
float public bonds was at high tide. The
entire class joined in the chorus.

EDGAR ALLAN DID IT TOO:

The poets of Davidson are reminded of
the college bell as a subject upon which to
air their verse. It is estimated that nine

Wait Till the Youth Grows Older
They sat upon the Senior Bench

(That is, just she and he)
He wore a Senior Stetson hat

She wore—I could not see.

He held his head up close to hers

(I think she liked it too)
I could not quite hear what was said
‘Don't ‘spose that it was new.

And as I watched I saw them kiss
(Of this I am quite sure)

Oh, Freshie, heed these words of mine
Fear love—it has no cure.

Just watch your step, leave girls alone
(Ask any Soph, he knows)

You'll find that you can’t learn and love;
That much the Senior knows.—Ex.

A Man’s Prayer

Lord, if one boon alone be granted me,
Let me choose what that boon shall be;
T shall not ask to live 'mid sheltered bliss,
In soft security—but only this:

Let me be not a coward in the strife

That sweeps across the battle fields of life;
Let me leave not for other lives to bear

The burdens that were rightfully my share.

Let me not whine, nor ever shirk,

But cheerfully bear my full load of work.

Then, place a friendly shoulder ‘neath the
load

Of one who, fainting, falls beside the road.

Let me, oh, Lord, be clean and unafraid;
Let me go forth to meet life, unafraid;
Until the final hour of life’s brief span,

Let me work upright—let me be a May!

Thus, let me live; that when the day's work
is done,
I pitch my tent toward the setting sun,
Lie down to rest, and from my labor cease,
My soul, within its home, shall be at rest.
—FEx.

Cleanly Spoken

The boy was at home at last. He had tried
his luck out West in the mines for five years
with little success. And now he was broke.

“John,” cried his old mother, seizing both
hands in greeting, “you have hardly changed
at all.”

“I know, mother,” he answered in termu-
lous tone} “but there ain’t no laundries out
there."—§wamp Angel.

Flow to Take’Care of a Baby

; ase a
(Nineteen Years Old)

1. Too much attention cannot be paid to
a girl of this age. Put this down as a
cardinal principle.

2. Give her the air in the Stutz at least
once a day. Cases of complete failure have
occurred as a result of violating this rule.

3. Contrary to expectation, quiet and rest
are the last things to be thought of. Say
it with jazz.

4. Although filet mignon and mushrooms
go over fairly well, most nourishment can be
administered through a bottle. Statistics
show that there are more bottle babies than
any other kind.

5. Always approach the object of your
devotion carefully; look around to make
sure that no one else is in sight for whom
she might possibly toss you flat; then ad- ~
vance firmly but with fear in your heart.
Acquire a manner that is a cross between
Rudolph Valentino and Mary Pickford. The
cave man stuff is gone forever.

5. Remember, baby needs plenty of exer-
cise. A dance, three times a week, is recom-
mended. In dancing, wrap your arm three

times around her waist, to keep the little
dear from falling. If she looks pained—
that's her worry.

7. Latest scientific investigation confirms
our suspicion that cigarettes are actually a
benefit to health and not a detriment, as some

thousand poems were written last year on | would have us believe. If your baby is not
the ‘dear old college bell.” You can’t be a_ so hot on Tareytons, break her in gently on
college poet until you have written your bell. a pipe——Pitt Panther.

poem,

| DD,
INTERESTING CONVERSATION:
I sho’ would hate to starve to death!
How come ?
You'd get so hungry!

Freshman Logic

Prof.— How mutch does a six pound shell
weigh?”

Frosh—"I don’t know.”

Prof.—‘Well, what time does the twelve
o'clock train leave ?”

Frosh—“Twelve o'clock.”

Prof—"Then what is the weight of the
six pound shell ?”

Frosh—“Twelve pounds.”—Juggler.

A LYRIC POME:
Bandolines like the famous tower,
Shoestrings mud fromthe Jawn, {
Curtails wiggle, hour by hour,
Wagon, wagon, wagon.

