DAVIDSON—$90,000.00
IMPROVEMENT TOWN

Che Bahidson Obserher

Today—1 Page

Vol. 1. No. 3

DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 11, 1923

_ FOUNDED 1922

TOWN NEWS

Dr. and Mrs, F. K. Feagle delightfully

entertained Prof. and Mrs. R. H. Wagoner
“at an informal_dinner Friday evening.

The Orthopedic Hospital at Gastonia was
visited by Davidsonians last week. Among
those in the party were Mesdames Hamilton,
Ryan, Withers and Brady.

The Linden, Methodist and Presbyterian
Sunday schools all had interesting Christ-
mas exercises, the chief feature of each being
‘a beautifully decorated tree.

Miss Nora Tompson has returned to
Wyoming after an extended visit at the
home of her father, Mr. W. H. Tompson.

One of the most interesting visitors to
Davidson recently is Master Richard Larke
Styles. The little gentleman has become so
infatuated with Davidson that he has de-
cided to take up his residence at the home of
Mr. and Mrs. Alex Styles.

Miss Rena Potts is here on a visit to her
aunt, Miss Bona Potts.

The friends of Mrs. Willis Johnston, of
Mooresville, will be glad to hear she is re-
covering from a serious operation performed
last Friday at Dactor Long’s Sanitorium in
Statesville. Mrs, Johnston, before her mar-
riage, will be pleasant remembered as Miss
Sarah Wooten.

Miss Jean Dupuy, of the Assembly's
Training school faculty, spent a few days
here last week as the guest of old friends.

Mr. R. M. Johnston, of Norfolk, Va., was
here for Christmas at the home of his
parents, Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Johnston.

Mr. Buck Currie, our “Y” secretary,
the holidays at his home in Fayetteville.

nt

Mrs. Robson had as guests for the holidays
her two sons, George and Pat, and her two
sisters, Misses Elizabeth and Gordon Bas-
kerville. ;

An interesting visitor last week was Miss
Sayad, a sister of Billy Sayad, our well
known Persian half-back. Miss Sayad is a
Junior at Peace Institute in Raleigh,

Miss Randolf Venable, of West Virginia,
was the guest for the holidays of her cousin,
Miss Nina Holt White.

Mr. and’ Mrs. Charles Grey and Miss
Lula Grey, of Hendersonville, were here for
the Grey-Romefelt wedding.

Mr. J. W. Currie, of Raeford, and Rev.
T. K. Currie, of Richmond, Va., have been
recent visitors at the home of their mother.
Mrs. J. L. Currie.

Dr. and Mrs. Martin motored to Fayette-
ville for their vacation.

Misses Mary and Lizzie Young entertained
at dinner last week in honor of their cousin,
Mr. Kerr Craig, who has been here on a
furlough from marine service.

Miss Steele spent the holidays in Ander-
son, S. C., recuperating from a severe at-
tack of influenza.

Dr. J. Wilsom MacConnell and nephew,
Joe MacConnell, have returned from a hunt
through South Carolina. They .report fair
luck and a wonderful time.

Mrs. Hood and daughter, Miss Kolista,
spent Christmas at their old home in Water
Valley, Miss.

Misses Letitia and. Lucy Martin Currie
visited in Charlotte during the holidays,
being the guest of honor at a party given
by the Misses Cothran.

Miss Sally Schenck»and Messrs. Louis and
John Schenck spent part of the holidays with
their mother, Mrs. Weldon Schenck.

Misses Mamie and Vick Withers have re-
turned home from a prolonged visit to their
sister in Prattsville, Ala.

‘Mrs. Carl Tompson will take the place of
ss Grey as seventh grade teacher. Miss
Withers will take the first grade.

1 children have had a long vaca-

, of prevalenge of the influ-

‘Mrs. M. T. Smith spent the holidays with
relatives in Winston-Salem.

Miss Agnes Douglass has been a guest at
the home of her brother, Dr. J. L. Douglass.

Christmas Festivities

Davidson was very gay during the holi-
days and there were a number of parties,
particular among the younger set. Mr. Joe
McConnell started the festivities with a
6-o’clock dinner to a number of his friends.
Other social functions were given by Misses
Mary Black, Grace James, Sophia Richards,
®Sarah Withers, Nina Holt White, Jean
Martin, Sarah Hamilton, Adele Arbuckle,
Madames J. Wilsom MacConnell’ and Ellis,
Messrs. Sam. Black, John D. McConnell and
J. M. Richards.

Henderson-Murphy Wedding

A marriage centering the interest of the
many friends and relatives of the young
couple throughout North Carolina was that
of Miss Florence Murphy, of Atkinson, and
Mr. Walter S. Henderson, of Davidson,
which took place Thursday evening at 5:30
o'clock at the First Presbyterian Church of
Atkinson.

The church was beautifully decorated with
southern smilax, cedar and ferns. In front
of the arch burned 28 white cathedral
candles.

Before the ceremony a beautiful musical
program was rendered. Miss Mozelle Wes-
tem, of Raleigh, was organist. Miss Cora
Clark, of Clarkton, sang “Thank God for a
Garden” and “To You.”

As the wedding march began, little Louise
Carr and Master Finba Murphy, entered and
opened the ribbons for the bridal party.

Next in order came the ushers, Mr. Julian
Keith, of Currie, and Mr. J. A. Murphy, Jr.,
a brother of the bride.

Following came the bridesmaids, Miss
Estelle O’Berry Moore, of Atkinson, and
Miss Lena Campbell, of Wilmington. — As
groomsmen, Mr. H. S. Caldwell, of David-
son, and Mr. J. A. Baldwin, of Clarkton,
canie next. .

Mrs. N. B. Revis, of Raleigh, was dame of
honor. Her beautiful gown was of orchid
crepe black satin with draperies of silver
lace and slippers to match. She ‘carried a
lovely orchid ostrich feather fan, and en-
tered alone from the left aisle.

Miss Mary Murphy, a sister of the bride,
was maid of honor, She wore a gown of
turquoise blue brocaded satin with silver
trimmings and carried a larget pink ostrich
fan. ?

Then came the ring bearer, Master James
Highsmith, of Wilmington. Following him
was little Miss Dancy Hawes sof Atkinson,
as flower girl,

The bride entered with her father, Mr. J.
A. Murphy, Sr., who gave her in marriage.
She was met at the altar by the groom, who
was attended by his brother; Mr. M. P.
Henderson, of Davidson, as best man.

The _impressive ring ceremony of the
Presbytérian Church was performed by Rev.
W. P. M. Currie, of Wallace, assisted by
Rev. Hl. IF. Beatty.

The bride was lovely in her gown of white
Duchess satin, embroidered in pearls, fash-
ioned with a court train. Her veil of tulle
fell gracefully from a coronet of pearls and
was caught with sprays of orange blossoms.
She carried a shower bouquet of bride’s
foses centered with orchids and shower of
valley lilies. Her only ornament was a string
of pearls, the gift of the groom.

Mr. and Mrs, ‘Henderson left -on the
northbound train immediately following a
reception at the home of Mr, and Mrs. D.
B. Johnson, for various points north. The
bride was-attired in a going-away gown of
navy blue paveline with bronze accessories.

Mrs. Henderson is the eldest daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Murphy, of Atkinson.
She was educated at Queens College in
Charlotte. !

The groom is the eldest son of the late
Rev. M. A. Henderson and Mrs. Margaret
A, Henderson, of Davidson, He is a very
popular young business man of Davidson and
a graduate of Davidson College.

The Ladies Missionary Society of the
Methodist Church, met with the Misses
Shumaker last Tuesday evening. Rey. Fos-
ter gave a short, but yery interesting talk
on missions in Africa. After the program,
cake and coffee was served and the meeting
was turned into a erate hour.

Miss Ruth Daniels, of Charlotte, spent
part of the holidays in Davidson as the
guest of her aunts, the Misses Shumaker.

| DAVIDSON WILDKITTENS
CLOSE RECORD SEASON

During the past football season among the |
leading high school teams of this part of the
State, the Davidson Wildkittens ranked well

}up in the list. The local team played eight

| games, won five and tied three. The locals.

did not lose a single game, and their goal

‘line was not crossed during the entire sea-
son. Most of the teams that the high school
played outweighed them and had much more
experience,

The first game, with Concord High Schoo!
at Davidson, was won by the Wildcats, 6-0.
|The game was hard fought and would
probably have ended in a tie, if Dick Grey
‘had not pulled off a sensational 70-yard run
for a touchdown. In the next game, with
Mooresville, the Wildkittens won easily by
a score of 26-0. Grey and Black played
stellar games for the locals.

On the following Saturday the Red and
White warriors took the Huntersville outfit
into camp with a score of 20-0.

The week after that the Wildkittens jour-
neyed to Spencer and emerged from the
fray with a 0-0 score. The Spencer team
outweighed the local outfit and the Kittens
did well to hold their opponents to this score.

The next game, the local team were hosts
to the Barium Springs Orphanage, which
they trounced to the tune of 118-0. This is
probably the largest score ever run up on
Sprunt Field.

The following weck the Wildkittens held
the-heavy Salisbury team to a 3-3 tie at
Davidson, Both teams played jam-up foot-
ball and this was one of the hardest battles
seen on the local field during the past sea-
son,

The next game was with Spencer on the
local field, and the Wildkittens more than
made up for the former 0-0 score by beating
Spencer to the tune of 20-0,

The last game of the season was with the
Lenoir high school aggregation in Lenoir,
resulting in a 0-0 tie.

Much of the credit for the successful sea-
son of the High School is due to the able
coaching of Pat Crawford, and Bascom Sor-
rells. The boys deserve much credit for
their fine showing, and here’s hoping for an
even more successful season next year,

D.

tible study class met ‘Thursday morning
as usual,

The Penny Gleaners met on Thursday
with Mrs. Brady. All members are children
from five to ten years of age.

DAVIDSON LOSES SERVICES
(Continued from Page 1)
several business propositions open to him,
Coach Grey states, one especially favorable
heing in his wife’s home, Greenwood, S. C.
“Wooley” Grey came to Davidson three
years ago, to succeed Pete Crayton. Pre-
viously he had seen service at Bailey Insti-
tute in South Carolina. During his stay at
Davidson he has rendered inestimable serv-
ice to the Athletic Association, not only on
the football field, but behind the scenes, in
building up the finances of the association,
and in setting on foot a campaign for an
alumni athletic fund. Coach Grey has
worked hard at Davidson and everyone
wishes him the best of success in whatever
he may chose for his life work.
D

WASHINGTON AND LEE TAKES

INITIAL DEBATE
(Continued from page 1)

and with a chief appeal to a

economigal view of the situation,
C. W. Lowry, of Washington and Lee,
as the first speaker on the negative, claimed
that Europe is not in the condition that the
affirmative had pictured her and that ‘she
could and should pay her. just debts. He
further maintained that the U. S. could re-
ceive payment without any resultant harm
to her own industrial life. F. B. Waters
closed the negative argument with an appeal
for a settlement without cancellation and its
tendency towards the repudiation of all in-
| ternational obligations. In his rejoinder,
Gamble clearly outclassed each of the other
-speakers-and_seriously-threatened the nega-~

tive’s position. BE

The Virginians won the debate and Da-
vidson has no excuses to offer, but instead is

sensible,

| looking forward to its next year’s struggle

| with them. The Davidson team left here on
Friday preceding the debate Saturday night
and returned the following Monday night.
| Benton Wharton, the third member of the
team, also made the trip as alternate and
|manager. For Washington and Lee, Paul
| Brawner was alternate.

“away from such conditions,

Romefelt-Grey Wedding

The chief social event of the holidays here
was the wedding of Miss Mary Parks Grey,
daughter of Dr. W. R. Grey, vice-president
of Davidson College, and Mr. Berchie Wal-
ton Romefelt, ’21, which occurred Saturday
evening, December 23rd, at 5 o'clock.

The church was beautifully decorated in
Christmas greens with tall cathedral candles.
Miss Hattie Tompson gave a brief but a de-
lightful musical program before playing
“Lohengrin” as a processional.

The ushers, D. R. LaFar and C. M. Davis,
entered down the side aisle, followed by J.
M. McFadden and Richard Grey, brother of
the bride. Miss Nancy.Grey, in pale blue
taffeta and Miss Elizabeth Grey, in green
taffeta, came down the center aisle. Miss
Jean Grey, as flower girl, immediately pre-
ceded the bride. All three maids carried
baskets of brilliant holly. The groom en-
tered from the vestibule with his best man,
Mr. Henry Cooke, and met the bride, who
came in on the arm of her father.

Miss Grey was beautiful in her wedding
gown of white ‘crepe entrain. Her veil of
tulle was worn coronete fashion, and her
shower bouquet was of bride’s roses.

The marriage ceremony was performed
by the bride’s pastor, Dr. C. M. Richards,
who used the impressive ring ceremony of
the Presbyterian Church. ‘The bridal party
left the church in reversed order to the
strains of Mendelssohn.

After the bridal party given at the home
of Prof. and Mrs. A. Currie, the happy
couple left that evening by motor for their
future home in Asheville, where the groom
holds a position with the Wacohia bank.

The Davidsonian adds its good wishes to
those of their many friends.

3 9 eye
Woman’s Auxiliary

Last Thursday the executive committee of
the Woman's Auxiliary met at 3:30 in the
Civic Hall. At 4 o'clock the auxiliary
proper met. This meeting was a New Year's
meeting, and was full of new purposes for
the coming year. Mrs. Richards and Mrs.
Fleagle read appropriate’ Psalms. Each
circle chairman told what she thought the
best New Year's resolution for her circle to
make, and among others, all made resolutions
that they would strive to have better attend-
ance. Under, the head of business, it was
decided to study “Sunrise in Aztec Land,”
hy Dr, Wm, A. Ross. This book is to be
read by individuals in the circle meetings,
and in February, one afternoon wiit be given
over entirely to study of the book.

D.

NEW BOARD FACES ACID TEST
(Continued from Page 1)

colleges throughout the country. With the
day of brutality even on the part of the
schoolmasters of England not very far he-
hind us, it can be seen that such ideas as
prevail today work a stage in the gradual
change that is inclining farther and farther
It is the same
old thing—a change from the ideas ‘that
ruled men at that time to those that more
and more are ruling men today. Some day
the limit will be reached—no one can tell
what that will be.

The court, as organized here, and com-
posed of eight men from the three upper
classes, has been functioning since December
15th, and its actions have spoken to a good
many Freshmen much louder than words.
Stating it otherwise, as summons to appear
before that court has been and is much more
than an invitation to a smooth lecture course.
Despite the fact that the ideas of Freshmen
will eventually change as to the relations be-
tween themselves and old men, there will be
plenty of need for action for a good many
days to come. No one can deny, that the
court has not, in the little time that it has
been working, thoroughly justified the faith
of its backers, True, no towering issues
have come up before it, but success has
marked the results in whatever it has taken
up, :

MINSTREL CASTE WILL TOUR
(Continued from Page 1)

under way whereby it is hoped that the
doors of that institution will in the future be
opened to Davidson’s talented organizations.

The plans, at present are to give all the
proceeds to ‘the Davidson College campaign
committee, to be used in construction of the
new Chambers Hall. Therefore the Alumni
Association and ministers of various towns
en route will probably extend their efforts in
boosting the attendance.

For the benefit of those who were absent
Senior speaking, it has been requested that
a second performance be given at Davidson
prior to the trip. This will be given shortly
after the examinations.

In regard to the performance itself, it
might be added that it was more than an
ordinary minstrel show in that it is four-act
play, entitled “The Sultan of Sarawak”—or
“Wildcats Minstrels Abroad,” written and
directed by Prof. E. J. Erwin.

All who saw the minstrels last fall are
unanimous. in their comment that it is the
best ever presented at Davidson. Too much
praise cannot be given those who make up
the cast. Everyone connected with it seems
to have put his very heart in it to make it a
success, The whole troupe from Professor
Erwin, who wrote the script, down to the
extras, worked faithfully. With each suc-
ceeding song or joke the entire performance
moves along with machine-like precision.

From the opening Pullman Porter Scene,
to the closing burlesque on Romeo “and
Juliet, there are various kinds of entertain-
ment, including Oriental, Scotch and Canni-
bal scenes, clog dancing, parodies, solos and
quartet selections, a feature contortionist
act, and numerous other attractions which
tend to keep the audience interested all the
while.

Without doubt this the crowning
achievement of the Dramatic Club, which
has from time to time furnished entertain-
ment in all forms of dramatic art.

a

Presson Motor
Company

Authorized Ford Dealer

LINCOLN
FORD
FORDSON

DAVIDSON, N:C.

Henderson Auto
Electric Co.

BATTERY REPAIRING
‘and

ACCESSORIES

Davidson, N. C.

_ W. B. Barnette & Co.

All kinds of Fancy and Heavy Groceries
Davidson, N. C.

