-

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 15, 1923

Sidelights On the

Combination Celebration

Although Davidson’s Ten Thousands
failed to materialize to its fullest capa-
city, nevertheless, there was _ one
continual round of merriment through-
out the length of the day. enforced
or otherwise. From the Khaki Klad
Kadets of Captain George to the knicker-
bockered sports of the campus. Every
one was dressed to his sartorial limit in
order to catch the eye of all amorous
females who might meander down the
classic avenues of our venerable campus,
during the ceremonies of the day. Not
as many arrived as was expected but as
to the crowd, “’twas enough, ’twas suffi-
cient.” Many have said that if the

that boy so who is carrying the ball.”
This last during the football game be-
{tween Fort Mill and Davidson High
| School. Even Joe Garrison was there
|with two. girls, his face wreathed in

Wrestling Team To Be
| Coached By Capt. Weems

| MoFrison entered into a hurried review of

| the accomplishments of this state during his
incumbency of office.

“Since the day of my inauguration,” he

| said, “the state has spent more money on

; 4 | f ones BN deme
smiles that would have brought credit+ Hard Schedule Arranged for Red _ hospitals, schools, the girls’ college at Greens-

|to even a laughing hyena himself. War-
| ren Cox who was acting as head lines-
|man,, was brought into forcible contact
| with the good old terry fermy when a
| player bowled his pins from under his
| body while making an end run.
ren remarked that it was a dirty trick.
| The day ended peacefully enough, with
|enly one prize crack to end the day. Two
of the faculty were ambling along to- |
wards their homes when one remarked, |
!“I notice that it gets dark sooner now- |
adays,” “Yes,” said the other, “the rea-
son for that is that the days are getting

War-|

and Black Matmen of 1924

|

With the approach of the wrestling
season, much interest is being shown over
the bright prospects of a team that will
not suffer defeat. Coach Younger has

announced that Capt. Weems, who was |

captain of the wrestling squad at West
Point, will have charge ofthe Wildcat
force.
used for the accommodation of visiting
teams will be turned into a training room
for the wrestlers. A new mat has been!

The room at the gym, formerly, ,

.of the students was held in anxious sus- teachings of Jesus, the world is headed for

ordered and the practice will begin at

; atl)
shorter. once.

crowd had been one girl larger, P. C.
Henderson and Simril Bryant would
never have gotten around to see all the
fair sex in the bunch,

J. STITT WILSON

A meeting was called Tuesday after-|
;noon by Captain Weems for the purpose |
of getting a line on those interested inj
wrestling and the training proper will |
begin at the close of the football season |
at Thanksgiving. /This is the third year |
that wrestling has had a place on the |
map of athletics at Davidson, and it!
| promises to be by far the most success-
ful one.

Fresh Buckner was plainly perturbed
for awhile during the morning. He had
heard the college was going to give
coffee away during the day, and lost no
time in rushing up to Ted Jones and ask-
ing him who was to teach Chemistry the
rest of the year if they gave him away.
He said that he thought it mighty un-
grateful of the college anyway. During
the review of Davidson’s Army by the
Governor, one flaxen haired female was
heard to remark that “those toy soldiers
were the cutest things she had seen in
ages.” All of which goes to prove that
the warlord Mars and his humble co-|'™° rea Ae)
horts in Davidson have not wasted their thing we have failed to get?
time entirely. Mr. Wilson sounded a clarion call to men

When the glee club. was performing ' think, Jn his words, “Unless there is te
and W. Theodore Jones was hitting the reaching for thought away from  supersti-
high places in his “Mandalay” song, the tion, prejudice, fear, lust, greed, and a solv-
breath of many of the more knowing i8 ©! social problems in the spirit and

(Continued from page 1)
Mr. Wilson, as well as from the writings
of others of note.

While the speaker’s considerations were
indeed melancholy, yet his final note was
one of anything else save pessimistic doubt.
He believes the hope of the world, not
morally only, not in view of heaven only, |
but mainly for the present, lies in the right
application of the teachings of Jesus.

There will be six meets this year, three |
of which have already been arranged. |
The first meet of the season will be with
, Carolina and will be held on the hill, ;

“Maybe,” he said, “maybe, we have missed | while the closing meet will be with V. M.|
something of the essence of the teachings of | I. at Lexington. A third meet has been |
Christ.” And here lies the thought of his | arranged with Trinity, which will also be |
| message and the hope of it. “Is there some- | jer on the hill; the other three are to|

be arranged later. Of the total number |

of meets two are to be held on the hill,
| while four will be on foreign territory. |
| Virginia will be invaded twice this year |
‘and it is thought that two meets will be|
| held on each trip. |

Wrestling is rapidly coming to the!
front in college athletics and will soon |
create as much sentiment as other forms |
of college sports.

pense until he had safely gotten past #8 end.” “No great man is satisfied with
the place where “he kissed her where what dead men have done, nor is stifled with |
stood.” Upon hearing the vocal What they have taught. It is, in the opinion |
pyrotechnics of the Melody men, Hippo, The man who has stopped thinking and) of some, the best physical training that
Houck at once remarked that he was stopped acting and rested on his oars is of | can be had, and it will give all those
going to have his voice cultivated, where- that group specified by the speaker as “those | who are unable to take a part in basket-
upon Johnny Parish was so unkind as to, Who sit on a safety valve and have not; ball an opportunity to engage in some
rejoin that he ought to have it fumigated. | thought a new thought in forty years.”
“Ben” Franklin gave vent to his histori-

she

form of athletics...Coach Younger urges
In his chapel talk Saturday morning, Mr, | all his football men to take a part in
cal knowledge by explaining that the Wilson spoke mainly of the teaching of Wrestling, Letters can be made in this
wooden horse on the float, tethered to Christ on the question of property. In the|a@s well as any other form of athletics,
the aged gentry, was probably a replica | eyes of the world, Christ was worth nothing | and Freshmen are especially urged to

of the famous wooden horse of Troy, or| when He died, because He had amassed no} take a part.
perhaps the one that Richard cried after! fortune.
when he uttered his time-honored lament of riches, but He said some important things | Freshmen and they are expected to come
; out in large numbers.

concerning the absence of equines, After
all was elucidated and finished however,

the banana shortage seemed to have as- that publican said, “Behold, Lord, the half | doesn’t necessarily mean that they will
suaged somewhat as several stalks were |

seen hanging in the booth of the
League booth. One smart Fresh walked
up to this booth and asked for something
in the shape of a banana.
know whether to take it as a joke or to
be indignant when one of the waitresses
handed him a dill pickle.

One more member of the gentler set
remarked that “they ought not to fight

EDUCATION MAKES
THE WORLD A
BETTER PLACE

TO LIVE IN---

SO DOES LIFE
INSURANCE

SOUTHERN LIFE
AND TRUST CO.

GreeEnsgoro, N. C.

A. W. McALISTER, -Pres.
H. B, GUNTER, Ag’cy Mgr.

He did not emphasize the getting |

about riches.

When He went to the house of Zaccheus, |

of my goods I give to the poor; and if I

sys | ; = i bec S “ntire svste ini
Civic! have taken anything from any man by false | because the entire system of training has

accusation, I restore him fourfold.” And}

| : * tients +
: ; then Jesus said to His hearers, “This day is | f , i
He did not) salvation come to this house, forasmuch asf" the coming year seem to be the

also a son of Abraham.”

“Does not this,” asked Mr. Wilson, “to- |
gether with the incident of the rich young}
|ruler, indicate that Christ, in some way, |
;connected a man’s salvation with the fact
{that he got into the right relation with his |
fellowmen in the use of things? This is|
|one of the evils which needs to be remedied |
|today, the relation of man to his fellowman |
jin the use of material wealth, the relation |
| between the rich and the poor.”

he is

| By special request, Mr. Wilson stayed over |
land delivered another address Saturday aft- |
| ernoon, in which he spoke of the great world |
| movements which have taken place in the
past. These were: the Reformation, a free-
| ing of religious institutions from selfish
| usurpers; the Revolutions—English, French,
| and American—which resulted in a freeing
}of political institutions; and the Abolition
of Slavery—the freeing of the human body,
jin a worldwide movement, of which the Civil
War was only one phase.

“These great movements were not isolated
events, but they grew one out of another.
The next great movement, in the opinion of
Mr. Wilson, will be a freeting of property
and personality. Some of the great business
men are already realizing this. For in-
stance, the Rountrees of England, some of

late, do not consider the making of chocolate
as the chief end of their business, but they
emphasize the right relation of the business
world toward the employees. Henry Ford
has a similar attitude toward the manufac-
ture of automobiles.

“The life of every being has as a part of
it a struggle for existence. The very thing
of life itself is a state which tries to endure.
But it is a fact that there is also a struggle
for others, and this struggle increases as
one goes higher in the animal world. The
animals’ whose struggle is almost entirely
selfish are not the ones which are increasing
in numbers, but are those species which are
almost extinct. Is there not a significant
lesson here for our nation ?”

bast

the world’s greatest manufacturers of choco- |

It is the only branch of

athletics on the hill that offers a letter to

There are only
three letter men back this year, and this

have any great advantage over new men

undergone a change and all will begin on
an equal basis. All in all the prospects

brightest in the history of wrestling at
Davidson,

GOV. CAMERON MORRISON
SPEAKS

(Continued from page 1)

‘socialism, ete, broke loose and began to
raise Hell in the United States.”

Governor Morrison expressed as his opin-
ion the fact that there was one way open to
avert catastrophe caused by this adverse
effect, that one way being for the nation to
enter the League of Nations, take a front
seat, and help Woodrow Wilson to lead the
world into peace, or to shut,our mouths and
keep wholly out of European affairs, if we
do not live up to the terms of the Peace Con-
ference.

“If we are not going to share responsibili-
ties, take part in world’s affairs and take
| our part in affairs we upheld at the Peace
| Table, our intermeddling of affairs should
stop and we should let the world know that
we are through with world affairs.” He
added that if we could not join the League
of Nations, the country should withdraw
from all world affairs. “That would be an
ignoble thing to do, but a finer thing to do
than we are doing,” he said. a;

Governor Morrison congratulated the
World War veterans for their valor, and
pointed to the time when, a hundred years
hence, the finest minds will be endeavoring
to express the appreciation of the world for
their services. “The heroes did not suffer in
vain. The politicians surrendered after
their fight was over and the desired result
has not been attained.

“We must do something, and if the coun-
try will not do anything else, it should ‘step
aside and send a note to that noble leader,
Poincaire, and tell“him that the heart of
America is with him, However. we must:
not sever and divide, but must work ‘to-
gether.”

| boro, the University, and roads than any
|other state. We have enlarged asylums and
| made room for the state’s uncared for luna-

tics. We have more than doubled the insti-
|tutions for all classes of unfortunates.” He
| spoke of a class of 8,000 high school grad-
| uates in comparison to 1,600 a few years ago.
He showed how the taxing system of
| North Carolina is working perfectly and

that where the tax bill was written with the
expectation of six million dollars a year, the
income bids fair to mount to eight million
dollars, by which all road bonds could be
tet before their due date. He said that, in-
stead of a deficit of five million dollars, the
state is now eight hundred and fifty thousand
dollars to the good. All of these funds are
derived mainly from those able to bear it.
His closing statement was, “Stand in the
spirit of concord and progress, then let North

,Carolina speak out to the government at

Washington that it must enter the League
of Nations and quit unoffcially squabbling
over European affairs.”

FORMER
PRESENT
FUTURE

STUDENTS

Stand by us in our efforts
to make the Davidsonian
top the list among College
Publications. This can’t

be done without YOUR
hearty support.

and Materials at

$2.95, $3.95,

collars.

colors.

Men’s lisle hose,

Men’s silk sox

From this phase of his address, Governor

BELK BROS. CO.

Clothing Department

Weare showing a complete line College Boys’
Suits, Hats and Furnishing Goods at attrac-
tive prices. Come in and see what wonderful
values we have to offer.

YOUNG MEN’S HAND-TAILORED SUITS
Schloss, Styleplus and Belk hand-tailored
Suits made in the Season’s. Newest Patterns

$25.00, $29.50, $35.00, and $39.50

NEW FELT HATS

New Fall Hats in rate Shapes and Patterns

'MEN’S DRESS SHIRTS

Men’s fine dress shirts made of best grade
Percal and Madras, made with and without

98c, $1.50, and $2.00
MEN’S TIES

Silk and Knit Ties, new shapes and beautiful

48c, 75c, 98c, and $1.50
MEN’S UNDERWEAR

Men’s Nainsook unionsuits, all sizes
48c, 63c, 98c

Men’s medium weight unionsuits

98c, $1.25, $1.50
MEN’S HOSIERY

all the leading colors
25c and 35c

48c, 85c, $1.00

.95; and $7.00
