THE DAVIDSONIAN,. NOVEMBER 8, 1923

On The Screen

The Purple Highway

You'll like “The Purple Highway,” the
picture that is to be shown here Saturday
right. Madge Kennedy, popular stage star |
and cinema comedienne, returns to the screen
after devoting two years to legitimate stage
work. in this picture which is a Paramount,
based on the successful stage comedy, “Dear

Founder’s Day Celebration.

At this time when the Students of David-
son are celebrating Founder’s Day, as well
as Armistice Day, and the opening of the

Me.” : . : Davidson College Highway, the story that
Monte Blue is the star playing the leading | centers around the college seal and its de-
man.

: | signer may justly claim our interest.
_ There will also be a good comedy in addi-! About the year 1840 the trustees of Dav-
tion to this feature picture. The admission | idson College appointed a committee to draw
is: Students 15c, others 25c. up a design for a seal. The committee be-
|ing unable to decide upon-a design, decided to
|consult a school teacher who taught at a
,;country school not far from here.
jinformed of the mission of the committee
Photographing a red light was a problem | he at once drew on a piece of paper with a
which puzzled many of the technical staff { pencil the design that was adopted as the
of the “Red Lights” Co., the picture that is | seal of Davidson College. This man was
to be shown here November 17. Director | Peter Stuart Ney. There is an interesting
Clarence Badger looked a long time before | tradition that he was Michael Ney, Marshall
he found a process of photographing a red | of France.
ray. The script called for a number of red! Ney first appeared in this country in 1819,
lights, and without them the spirit of the | and it was at Charleston, S. C,, that he was
tense drama-mystery is lost. It is a well! first seen. A few months after that he was
known fact that a red light is used in the employed to teach school at. Brownsville, S.
developing room to protect the negative, as | C., where he taught for about three years.
red rays do not have a damaging effect on Colonel John A. Rogers of South Carolina
the ordinary raw film. It necessitated an! says of Ney: “I was in the schoolroom in
endless amount of research work in the lab- | 1921 when a newspaper was brought to him
oratory before the light could be registered containing an announcement of the death of
on the film. | Napoleon at St. Helena. He read it, turned
ihe keen Goddess | deathly pale, fainted and fell exactly as if
Quoting fron Gerben Glasiic.) An gues had been shot. So great was Ney's
oe ' , grief at this time that he attempted to com-
tistic achievement of the year in the way of |”. cide candewhenlrcnroved si be Kiseraal
photoplays, the Goldwyn_picture,—The i Seeeceie nae, beh ARE bre se
Green Goddess, which gives George Arliss, | conduct, exclaimed — Oh, Colonel, Colonel,
who unquestionably is the most gifted panto- feito ae eal uh Nepoteon ne tent Hone 8
minist of stage and screen, a further op- sale Col Rogers also state tliat not bell
portunity to demonstrate his talents, This afterward Ney visited Columbia, S. C,, and
§ ; i during a military review appeared on the
actor is so deft and subtle in his several | ,. ; . .
shadings that one has to be acutely alert field mounted. Certain foreigners who were
to follow: lila, His pidtures have vearried Present declared that they had seen Marshall
a ‘high-brow” character—principally be-| nd that the person before them was en
ae ee Pousiea Rain doubtedly Marshall Ney. On. hearing this
Rineneveloltay. Gt. chatacteneatione OHe Ney rode off the field, and the next morning
fairly speaks to you, wherever he attempts he Jefe Colttinbia, :
to—be it a Devil or a Disreali. | About 1822 or 1823 Ney appeared at
His art has never been so revealed, how- | Mocksville, N. C. He told them that his
ever, as in his protrayal of the crafty, devil- | "4Me¢ was Ney and that he was a French
ish Hindu Rajah in The Green Goddess, a | refugee. He taught school there for several
portrayal which he has transferred from | ¥¢#"S with wonderful success. After that he
stage to screen. On the stage facial ex. | Spent several years In Virginia, returning to
pression and vocal gifts were blended by him | North Carolina in 1830, teaching in Rowan,
in such a manner as to become one in their | Cabarrus, Lincoln and Davie counties. Later
effect on the spectator. The screen, how- | he spent one winter in South Carolina, teach-
ever, has established his remarkable pan- | 18 neal, D arlington. He then returned Lo
tomine and nothing of value has been lost. | North Carolina and taught in Eincoln and
His genius at expression, the lifting of a fin- a on until his death, on Novem-
ger, and the raising of an eyebrow is re-| °°" ** :
markadble and always a delight to watch. In| During all of this time Ney was exceed-
dwelling upon the art of Arliss, the out- | ingly reticent and rarely spoke of his past
standing quality of the picture is given which | life except to his especial friends. Occas-
is a character study of weird humor bal-|ionally he would drink to excess and at these
anced with polished villainy. It is subtle |times-he would sometimes publicly say that
but always illuminating. The characteriza-|he was Marshal Ney. As to his influence,
tion holds you in a deep embrace. ‘Rev. W. A. Woods, D. D. of Statesville, N.
'C,, says: “His influence for good in the
community can hardly be overestimated. It
Games next week show: is felt to this day and will continue to be felt
At Blacksburg, Va., V. P. I. vs. Clemson. | by: succeeding generations.”
At Columbia, S.C. N. C. vs. S. C. Ney did, however, speak of his past his-
At Greensboro, N. C., Trinity vs. Elon. | tory to confidential friends, when he was
At Charleston, S. C., Citadel vs. Newberry. | known not to be under the influence of liq-

“Red Lights”

is

When |

juor. Mr. Valentine Stirewalt, of Davidson,
ligated that he told him that he was Marshall
Ney, and how he escaped. A similar account
to that given by Mr. Stirewalt, was given
by Mrs. Mary C, Dalton, who says that she
was a pupil of P. S. Ney and that he board-
ed at her father’s house for several years.
He said; “My name is not Peter Stuart
Ney, Iam Marshal Ney. History states that
IT was executed, but I escaped death
through the aid of my friends and others.
On the day appointed for my execution I
was told that my life was to be spared. I
was instructed to give the command to fire,

might pass over me. I carried out my in-
structions. I was taken up by the soldiers
jand taken to the hospital. That night I
; was disguised and went to Bordeaux, From
|that place I sailed to the United States,
| landing in Charleston in the latter part of
| January, 1816. The next few years I spent
lin seclusion, and prepared myself for teach-
jing by studying the classics and higher math-
jematics.” He is said by Mrs. Dalton to
|have said that he chose the profession of
|teaching because it was in many Tespects
|like the military profession, to which he had
been accustomed all his life. He could not
hear the thought of engaging in any oceupa-
tion where he would be commanded or con-
trolled by others whom he might consider his
inferiors. In the schoolroom he was sup-
reme; hence he remained in seclusion for
several years studying.

There were, however, other reasons for
| Ney’s concealment. After the execution it
was reported in France that he had escaped.
Bourienne, in his “Memoirs of Napoleon,”
says: “It was impossible to get the public
to believe that Ney had really been killed in
this manner, and nearly to this day we have
fresh stories recurring of the real Ney being
discovered in America.” Thus it would seem
|that Ney knew. by remaining concealed. for
| several years these reports, to a great extent,
would die away. :

|
' Mr. Geo. H. C. Melody, who was a great

friend of Louis Philippe, having made his
acquaintance and rendered him some valua-
ble assistance while he was exiled in Ameri-
ca, says the St. Louis Republic, was told by
the king while visiting in Paris that some

ed for Marshal Ney. sz :

A Kansas lawyer whose grandfather was
in Wellington's army says that he has often
heard his grandfather ,say that Ney was not
shot, and that the report of the British com-
mission that was present at the execution was
this: “Marshal Ney was not shot.”

Peter Stuart Ney was walking down the
street in Statesville, when he suddenly met
John Snyder, an old soldier who had fought
under Marshal Ney. As they game face to
face, Snyder threw up his hands, exclaim-
ing, “Lordy God,- Marshal Ney.”

Some years ago” there was found in a
volume on the life of Napoleon in the Dav-
idson College library, a pencil sketch of P. S.
Ney drawn by himself. It was at the top
of a page containing a picture of Marshal

Mrs. M. J. Blue and Misses Jane and | EATING CLUB ORGANIZED BY

Jean Blue, of Raleigh, were the week-end PROMINENT MEN HERE
guests of Mrs. J. M. Douglas. | ———

There has recently been another forward
| step taken by some of the members of the
| student body in the nature of an eating club.

| This club is known as The Shack and is lo-

For High Class

PRINTING

of every description

+

‘*Jam-Up”’

SERVICE

|better feeling of friendship between the
|members of the several fraternities and the
| non-fraternity men.

| The club consists of six men from each
fraternity and six non-fraternity men. Each
six is composed of three Seniors, two Juniors
and one Sophomore, no Freshmen being eligi-
|ble. Every man is voted on by secret ballot,
[eonitnane at least two votes against him to
keep him out.

2

most prominent men of the student body

see and it is strictly democratic in nature. It

was not organized for the purpose of being

E LKINS & PRICE exclusive but absolutely for the promotion of
better friendship among the frat and non-

Davidsonian Office frat men by bringing them into closer con-

tact with each other. The club was not or-
ganized just for this year, but it is to be a
continual thing, lasting from year to year—
hence the division of the membership among
the three upper classes.

The six men from the

Agents for
Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.

Quality Printers
Bachelors have

|cated at Mrs. Foster's boarding house. The |
| purpose of the organization is to promote a |

' The Shack was organized by some of the.

been elected but have not taken their places
at the club yet. They will do so later. There
are also about five football players who are
now eating at the training table but who
will take their places at the club as soon as
| the season is over. They are: Tom Baker,
| Julian Briggs, Charley Hodgin, “Gig” Shep-
herd, and Ralph Boggs.

Those who are now eating at The Shack
are as follows: C. V. Brown, Jr., A. W.
McAlister, J. D. Baker, Jr., T. B. Brown,
iJr., T. H. Koenig, F. S. Shaw, J. D. Parish,
itlejohn, R. H. Falls, W. T. Spencer, A. D.
Mallory, T. F. Staley, J. H. Patton, John
| Bachman, S. S.- MeNair, George Dupuy,
|Perry Priest, E. L. Lovelace, A. W. Peters,
iJ. I. Smith, J. H. McConnell, Frank Hudson,

| Alf Robinson, Tommy McSwain, and W. B. |

Mattisgn.

' SCHOLASTIC STANDING OF
FRESHMEN IS IMPROVED

Remarkable improvement in the
scholastic work of Freshmen this year
over the records of previous Sessions, has
been-credited largely -to the elimination
of hazing and the installation of group
conferences for the new students. This
year’s Freshman class, as a whole, had
relatively few delinguencies in scholar-
ship for the first month as compared

and to fall while giving it, so that the balls |

other man may have filled the grave intend- |

WAS PETER STUART NEY, DESIGNER OF COLLEGE
SEAL, MARSHAL OF FRANCE, UNDER NAPOLEON?

All Proofs Point to the Fact that French Refugee, Designer of Davidson College Seal, Was Mar-

shal Michael Ney, Napoleon’s Famous General. Old Tradition of Interest With Regard To

Ney have identified it as his signature. The
likeness of the two drawings is very strik-
ing.

In a number of histories of the Napoleonic
Wars, lives of Napoleon, ete. P. S. Ney
has made certain statements and explained
passages which show that he was present at
the time*teferretto. The refrences to Mar-
shal Ney are many of them in the first per-
son,

; A newspaper account of the so-called ex-
jccution of Marshall Ney gives the following :
| “Ney was informed of his sentence late at
night and was hurried to execution early the
next morning. The sentence was carried in-
lto effect early in the morning on the 7th of
! December, 1815, in a clandestine manner near
Ithe Observatory, for all who were in any way
| connected with this detestable transaction in
Jany way seemed ashamed of it. When Ney
| reached the place of execution he walked
| firmly from the coach to the fatal spot and,
frefusing to have his eyes blinded, calmly
faced the detachment. Taking off his hat
with his left hand he exclaimed, ‘I solemnly
protest before God and man against the in-
Jiquity of my sentence. History will judge
me.” Then placing his hand upon his heart
he added, ‘Soldiers, straight to the heart!
| Vive le France.’ Fire.” He fell dead upon
| the spot twelve balls having taken effect.
| Thus perished one of the greatest men “that
| France could boast of, exhibiting to the last
| moment the undaunted courage which had
lever distinguished him in battle.’

Consider the so-called execution, It took
place in a dark seeret alley and not in the
Plain of Grennele, the appointed place where
ten thousand people were assembled to wit-
it. The regulations were altogether
alien to military rules. The executioners
were Ney's own veterans. One account says:
“as the body lay in the hospital «an officer
took a picture of it. -A smiling and winning
placidity seemed to play about the counten-
ance.” Imagine it a man with twelve balls
in his body, three of them in the head, The
burial was almost before daybreak the next
morning, not a minister there, not
even Madame Ney, who loved him devotedly,
‘not even one of the “Old Guard.” Could
this be the real burial for the “Bravest of
the Brave,” “who had brought more glory
to French arms than any other man living?
But then why should people flock to the
burial of a dummy or an empty box?

ness

even

On his deathbed P. S. Ney solemnly swore
that he was Marshal Ney of France.

In the graveyard of Third Creek Church,
Rowan County, N. C., there is a stone bear-
ing the following inscription:

In Memory Of
Peter Stuart Ney
A Native cf France and a Soldier of the
French Revolution
Under Napoleon Bonaparte
Who Departed This Life
November 15, 1846
Aged 77 years

with the figures for the same period last
year.

The group conferences, installed at the
beginning of the fall term, have proven
extremely successful in eliminating fail-
ures and in impressing the new students
with their various responsiblites. The
Class of ’27 has been dvided into five
groups, each group meeting with its
teader on Monday evenings. At the

Ney. There is some writing also on the page |
which is signed by P. S. Ney. Friends of |

Literary Societies

Metrophilian 2

Two well presented debates marked the
‘regular Metropolian meeting Oct. 30, one of
{these being extemporaneous. The regular
debate of the evening, Resolved: That the
President should be limited to one term of
four years, was featured by some hot argu-
ment on both sides. The judges decision was
in favor of the negative.

The extemporaneous debate on the subject,
Resolved: That the college should place a
tax on all goods sold on the campus, was won
by Stewart of the affirmative. Farrell up-
keld the negative. Guy Morrow had a well
} worked out oration. The program at the
{next meeting will be presented ‘by freshmen.

Philanthropic

The Phi Society held a short business
meeting on Tuesday, October 13. The meet-
ing was not held until after the Skeyhill lee-
ture, so the program was postponed and a
tew business matters were taken up by the
The meeting well attended,
nearly all members being present © The pro-
gram set for October 13, will be given on
November 6.

society. was

EUMANEAN
The Eumanean Society held a short meet-
ing Tuesday night) adjourning for the
Skeyhill lecture in) Shearer Hall. The

week's program was posponed till the next
meeting.

PANDEINIC
At the regular meeting of the Pandeinic
Literary Society Tuesday, October 30, J. B.
Webb was received into the membership by a
unanimous vote of the society.

It was voted that the time of meeting
should be changed to seven o'clock when sup-
per hour is changed to six. The subject for
debate was: Resolved: That the Presi-
dency of the United States should be Limit-
ed to One Term of Four Years. The Af-
lirmative, upheld by Goodykuntz and J. S.
McFall, received the the judges
against» the Negative which was supported
by Frank Hudgins and J. R. Maxwell; the
Negittive, however, received the vote of the
house. KE. M. Regen delivered an oration,
The College Ideal and McAlpine gave a
humorons declamation entitled Mark Twain's
Watch.

vote of

An announcement concerning the Junior-
Senior Debate and the inter-society prelimi-
naries was made; also an announcement that
the Freshman-Sophomore Declamation Con-
test would be held at an early date which has
not yet been definitely decided upon.

group meetings an open forum is con-
ducted with a short talk each week from
the leader on some phase of campus life.
Any college problems that have been
faced by the new men during the pre-
vious week are discussed and remedied.

The new system of group conferences,
fashioned to a large degree after the
Princeton Fellowship Groups, will great-
ly reduce the number of students sum-
moned before the Court of Control cach
week, if the plans and ideas of the group
leaders are realized.

A feature of the group conferences for
the next five weeks will be talks each
Monday evening from leaders in the
different college and campus activities.
One speaker will be heard by cach group
at every Monday night meeting.

The following men have been selected
for these talks: Albert Hillhouse, on
“Student Body Government ;” Liston El-
kins, on “What is Expected of David-
son Men;” “Gig” Shepherd, on “Ath-
letics and Body Development in Col-
lege;” R. R. Jones, on the subject of
“Scholarship ;” and Ted Jones, on “Reli-
gious Activities at Davidson.”

| Service.

The Independence Trust Company
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT

Offers to the public a dependable Insurance
If interested in insurance in any of its -
many branches, it will pay you to consult us.

McALISTER CARSON, Mer. (°13)
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

|
