THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 26, 1923

LITERARY NEWS

EDITOR HESTON
ANNOUNCES ‘24
ANNUAL STAFF

Editor-in-chief W. M.. Heston has an-
nounced his staff for the ’24 Quips and
Cranks. The men who will work with him
to attempt to put out the best annual ever
seen here, and who will have charge of the
various departments are as follows: Lit-
erary Editor, D. J. Chipman; Art Editor,
Watt McCain; Calendar Editor, H. M.
White; Gossiper. Editor, R. L. Price; Ath-
letic Editor, W. F. Gallaway; Asst? Literary
Editor, J. A. Lake.

Heston announces that the new staff will,
if possible, get all the material together by
the first of February so that,there will be
no delay in getting the copies ‘to the stu-
dents and other subscribers as soon as pos-
sible. They are planning many new features
which wilt go far toward putting next year’s
Annual in a class by itself.

R. H. Smith will have charge of the busi-

‘ ness end of the '24 edition and promises all
that is in his power toward putting it on a
self-supporting basis. The men who will
assist him in this department have not been
definitely decided upon as yet.

REPORTERS INITIATE
NEW MEN BEFORE |
MOVIE CROWD

Everything ranging from black face com-
edy to “anesthetic” dancing was used to
entertain the audience at the movie, last
Saturday night. The cause of this enter-
tainment was the initiation of twelve new
members into the Reporter’s Club. As soon
as the lights were turned:on, after the fifth
reel of the picture, “Cat Fish” Smith, dis-
guised as a beautiful young lady and having
a “flapperish appearance, tortured the atidi-
ence with a vocal selection, “Sweet Alice,
Blue Gown.” This barbarity was followed
by an interpretative dance by “Will Eat”
Milton, who played the part of interpreter
exceedingly well.

J. M. Seker, “Gosh Ding” Rogers, A. M.
Hard and J. L. Green were the next to en-
tet, Their costumes consisted of bathing
suits, track suits, and union suits. They
further tortured the audience with the ren-
dition of Elias Faison’s “Spanish Doug.”

After this motley array, a jabbering’ fam-
ily entered; Jack Austin, as the Jew father;
Paul Story as the mother; A. Y. Bowie, as
the overworked nurse; and C. F. Monk as
the howling baby. A discussion between the
father and mother of the malady affecting
their “darling child” almost ended in trag-
edy. All the initiates later joined in giving
a yell for the Reporter’s Club, and for the
college. z

Two initiates werc absent, M. S. Beall,
and Alex McMillian. These make the total
number, twelve, of which two are Juniors,
six Sophomores and four Freshmen.

After the show, the initiation ceremonies
were continued in the gym. D. B. Walthall,
the newly elected president, made a short
but interesting talk. He brought out the
fact that a course in Journalism will be giv-
en next year. McIlwaine, the assistant
managing editor of the Davidsonian, gave a
brief history of the Davidsonian. Patton,
the secretary of the club, stressed the im-
portance of attending all its meetings. After
this a splendid feed was enjoyed ‘by all.

D.

POLITY CLUB ELECTS NEW
OFFICERS AND MEMBERS

The meeting of the Polity Club held in
Shearer Hall on April 9th was turned over
entirely to the business of electing new
officers and the selection of several men to
membership in the club.

The officers elected were: J. H. Davis,
President, J. I. Smith, vice-president and H.
M. White, secretary and treasurer. The five
men elected to membership are: A. P. Hud-
gins, J. L. Mclain, D. B. Walthall, M. J.
Murray and R. H. Smith. These men will
be taken in at the next meeting.

 p Vested

PHI BETA KAPPA HEAD
VISITS LOCAL CHAPTER

President-Vorhees, chief executive of the
United Chapters of the Phi Beta Kappa
honorary fraternity, spent last Tuesday on
the Davidson campus in the interest of the
society which he represents. He came to
Davidson from Columbia, S. C., and after
spending the day on the hill, left to com-

plete -a:generg),tour of inspection of South-
‘ern Chapters.

Doctor Vorhees was a visitor at Davidson
several weeks ago when the local chapter
was installed.

“QUIPS AND CRANKS”
WILL MAKE DEBUT

The copy for the 1923 Quips and Cranks
has gone to the publishers ,and the annual
will soon appear with many new features.
This issue will be the first one put out since
the cover has been standardized. From
now on, covers like those used last year will
be used.

Although the outer part has been stand-
ardized, the material inside will include sev-
eral innovations. The invocation, instead of
being done in the usual black and white,
will be colored quite a bit. There will be
twice as many sponsors, and the pictures
will somewhat resemble a rotogravure sec-
tion. The individual senior pictures, instead
of running up and down the page, will be
placed at the top and bottom of the page.

The athletic headings will show quite an
improvement over those of last year. In-
stead of showing one player at a time, a
group will be sketched in the midst of a
formation. The fraternity and class cuts
will be original work by some of the best
artists at Davidson.

In short, this year’s annual will be the
result of hard work and splendid talent.

DECLAMATION CONTEST
IN EUMENEAN SOCIETY

In the Eumenean Society meeting of April
19 the annual Fresh-Soph declamation con-
test was held. Two Sophomores, A. M,
Martin and G. D. Rogers, contested against
A. Y. Bowie and W. F. Martin of the
Freshmen. Professor Foreman acted as
judge and in the absence of other faculty
members two Seniors from the society,
Frank Johnson and P. H. Biddle, were ap-
pointed as judges.

A. M. Martin took first place, speaking
on America’s Mission by W. J. Bryan. Sec-
ond place was given to W. F. Martin who
gave Americanism by Adams, with Bowie
winning third.

The inauguration of the new officers then
took place. The retiring president, Fraser,
made a few remarks thanking the society
for its cooperation during his term of office,
and immediately proceeded with the regular
inauguration ceremony. After the new pres-
ident, LL. D. Elkins, was installed, he called
the new officers; J. R. Earnest, vice-presi-
dent, and J. A. Bouvier, secretary, to take
their places. The president asked to be ex-
cused from the regular inauguration address
for the present. On request from Fraser,
he promised to deliver it at the next meeting.

Under the head of other business, the
treasurer, Hiram Sharpe, read a list of fines
with the announcement that all those fined
must either explain the absence to him or
pay it. After this, the society adjourned.

. D.

PANDEINICS WIN
FRESH-SOPH DEBATE

The Pandeinic society team won a three
to nothing decision over the Metrophilians
team in the first round of the Fresh-Soph
inter-society debates. This win advances
them to the finals with the winner of the
Eu-Phi match which will come off in the
near future.

The query debated on Friday night was
Resolved, That the United States should
adobt the Cabinet-Parliamentary form of
government. N .C. McLeod opened the
affirmative arguments with a thorough re-
view of conditions as they now are in con-
trast with conditions at the time when our
government was formed. He stressed the
fact that a remedy was needed to make our
government responsive to the will of the
people, democratic: in its working, and effi-
cient in its lawmaking. H. L. Shaw, Jr.
opened the negative side by giving the
affirmative the duty of showing first of all
that conditions warranted such a vital
change in our present form of government;
secondly, that cabinet government was su-
perior to presidential government, and third
to show that cabinet government was suited
to the needs of the United States. His’ main
arguments went to show that our govern-
ment was efficient and that the Cabinet form
was not.

The second speaker for the affirmative,
Claude McIntosh, enumerated the faults
found in our government—namely; that it
is irresponsive, undemocratic, and inefficient.
Following came the next negative speaker,

A. H. Hollingsworth, Jr. He emphasized
ged

‘| trivance.

the remarkable manner in which the United
States has grown since its formation in 1789,
and used this as his basis for asserting that
our present government is far from being
inefficient. D. B. Wharton closed the affirm-
ative with a support of the Cabinet form of
government, asserting that it was responsive,
flexible, and efficient, and contrasting it with
the presidential form which, he declared,
had none of the three above mentioned good
qualities. H. B. Price, the third speaker for
the negative, pointed to the lack of stability
in the newly proposed form of government.
He declared the cabinet form to be lacking
in steady and consistent leadership due to
the uncertain tenure of office of its officials.
He declared that the presidential form had
been adopted by most of the newly formed
nations of the world.

Tn the rejoinders, all of which were of the
spirited and wide awake nature, there came
a direct clash of opinion, each side attempt-
ing to refute identically the main points
brought out by the opposition. ‘This made
the debate unusually full of fight. The
order of speaking for the rejoinders was
affirmative, negative, affirmative, negative,
negative, affirmative.

‘The debate was held in the Eumanean So-
ciety Hall. J. H. Grey presided, and the
judges were Doctor Lingle, Doctor Shew-
make and Professor Fleagle. The Fresh-
Soph debating medal awarded by the indi-
vidual societies was won by D. B. Wharton
of the Met society. The Pan medal will be
awarded in the finals.”

D.

PROFESSORS SHOCKED
BY MUSIC IN CHAPEL

It had not been known before Friday
morning that there were electrical experts
at Davidson, but the exciting events coming
at the hour of chapel proved that there are
geniuses here whose praises have been yn-
sung. The recent exploration of King Tut's
tomb pales into insignificance as compared
with the daring plot unearthed by the fac-
ulty when several members of that august
body were shocked by the aforesaid con-

No sooner had the first strains of the
hymn been sung, than when the gently drow-
sing members of the Student Body were
awakened by much unseemly commotion
caused by the faculty coming to attention
at one and the same instant. Squirming
and wriggling of the worst kind was seen
all over the stage and the attention of all
was drawn to the bench which was inno-
cently reposing where it sits week in and
week ‘out. The more*brave of the profe-s
sors sat down again but only to rise again.

feet 10 inches, but failed to make it the
next time. Calhoun made 6 feet by the
measurement on the standard, but a tape
showed that the bar sagged a half an inch
making his jump 5 feet 1134 inches.

Clemson took a big lead in. the sprints,

100 and 220 yard dashes as well as in the
quarter and half mile runs. Davidson put
up a stout scrap but was outclassed. Chand-
ler was probably the fastest man on Sprunt
Field since Hack Murray used to show ’em
how to run. Chandler’s time on the hundred
was 10:1 and he took the two twenty in 23:3.
Wood's time on the half mile was 2:01.6,
within two seconds of the college record,
and Rice crossed the line in front of Gala-
way after a heart-breaking fight for second
place. Zeigler and Killian for Clemson won
the 440 yard run, Zeigler doing it in 54:4.

The mile was fast. Young, for Clemson
making it 4:41 while Speck McConnell tied
the collegt record of 4:44 for second place.
Huggins gave Clemson first place in two
mile but Selser beat Wiliford out for second
place.

Red McCombs took the javalin at 152.8
fect with Hall for Clemson second. After
several attempts Red managed to get a good
throw off. Mace took first in the high hur-
dles with Gracey a close second. It was a
tight race and all four men showed pretty
form in clearing the obstacles.

Chandler, Clemson’s fast dash man, was
high man winning two firsts with Mace sec-
ond with a first and a second.

After the showing Friday afternoon, Da-
vidson can be counted on showing some
strong competition to the contenders in the
state meet. With three college records al-
ready broken and from the looks of things
now several more will be broken before the
end of the year, this season has all the indi-
cations of being the best in recent years.

SUMMARY:

100 yard dash—Chandler, Clemson; Rob-
inson, Clemson. Time 10.1

220 yard dash—Chandler, Clemson; Rob-
inson, Clemson. ‘Time 23.3.

440 yard dash—Zeigler, Clemson; Killian,

One mile run—Young, Clemson; McCon-
nell, Davidson. Time 4:41.

Two mile run—Huggins, Clemson; Selser,
Davidson. Time 10:40.4.

Shot put—Lindamood, Davidson; Gracey,
Davidson. Distance 36.9 feet.

Pole vault—Streibich, Davidson; Gracey,
Davidson and Pepper, Clemson, tied; for sec-
ond. Height 11 feet. ’

Discus—Finklea, Clemson; Dennent, Clem-

There was no doubt about it, the faculty
was shocked. Two small rocking chairs
offered consolation for two of the faculty |
members but the rest were forced to remain
in the vicinity of the infernal machine which |
was doing its deadly work. No visible evi-
dence of the nature of the agent causing
the alarm was noticed by the students but it
was there at any rate.

A post-chapel examination of the scene
of the scare revealed a complete electrical

piano and its outside workings in the shape
of two fine wires strung out along the front
bench. The pedal of the piano was arrang-
ed so that it would close the circuit, thus
causing a thrilling _ current to meander
through the wires. The pedal-switch was
synchronized with the seating of the faculty |
and that was the reason for the wave-like
motions of the performers on the front
seat. No serious damage was done except
a few wounded feelings?
T.

WILDCAT RUNNERS |
DEFEATED BY CLEMSON

(Continued from Page 1)

He bettered the college record by two inches
when he pole vaulted 11 feet. The old re- ;
cord established by Wooten '96 has stood for |
nearly thirty years. When it comes to
jumping the Wildcats are right there.
Gracey was high man again with 714
points, winning two second places and tying
for another. Gracey, entering in five events,
is the best all around track man Davidson,
has seen in some time, and with two years
to go, great things may be expected.
Davidson started out strong, taking first
and second places in the shot put, Linda-
mood and Gracey doing the honors. Clem- |
son came back by winning both places in an |
exciting low hurdle race. Mallory was lead-
ing the field when he tipped a hurdle and
lost his stride, while Wade and Mace for
Clemson just beat Dick to the tape by a
hair.
In the high jump Gracey and Pepper drop-

ped out at 5 feet 8 inches. Hall cleared’5’

outfit with its origin in the interior of the |

son, Distance 113 feet 614 inches.

winning both first and second places in the]:

Clemson. Time 54.4.
Half mile run—Wood, Clemson; Rice, }}
Clemson. Time 2:01.6.

Javelin—McCombs, Davidson; Hall, Clem-
son. Height 5 feet 1134 inches. :
Broad jump—Pepper, Clemson; Hall,
Clemson. Distance 20.8 feet.

110 yard low hurdles—Wade, Clemson;
Mace, Clemson. Time 12.8 sec.

110 yard high hurdles—Mace, Clemson ;

Gracey, Davidson: Time 148 sec.
r T.

NEW WATTS AND SOUTH
WING WILL BE ERECTED

(Continued from Page 1)

ened walls and heaps of broken brick to a
bare spot on the campus. A small quantity
of brick and tile were salvaged but most
of the ruins were useless.
Authorities are working on plans for the
new Chambers and trying to get them ready
as soon as possible. Work will begin on the
south wing as soon as the plans can be com-
pleted and the contract awarded. So far
two sets of preliminary plans have been sub-
mitted, one of which is at present under
consideration. The architect was on the
hill the early part of April looking over the
situation. ‘The south wing is to consist of
classrooms and offices, most of which will
be ready for use by next September. All
offices will be moved from the library to
the south wing of Chambers, leaving the
vacated rooms for the use of the library.

The speed with which work on the new
building is progressing has been noticed by
everyone, especially that on the ruins of
Watts. Practically all the debris was re-
moved in a single week. Where Chambers
once stood there are now only a few heaps
of brick enclosed in the last remnants of a
granite foundation.

1D)

Well, the latest news is now out, Mike
Patrick has just finished a sixty page let-
ter to his girl. He must have copied the
newspaper. He claims that he didn’t have
any trouble until he came to the sixtieth
page and that he had a terrible time filling
Pat must have a hefty line.

up that page.

BETTER SERVICE

RALPH’S|

BARBER SHOP
New Location
KNOX BUILDING

HE LL EEEEI EEE EE EEE

chumming with gravity.

all traditions about s

ving.

more comfortable.

shaving more enjoyable.

Tell your physics prof.
that this cap defies gravity

GHAVING cream caps have an uncanny habit of

Hinged Cap shown hereisso remarkable. You can’t per-
suade it to roll down a drain pipe. It refuses to go near
the bathroom floor. In brief, it defies all previous laws
governing the behavior of shaving cream caps.

Williams’ Shaving Cream, in the same way, upsets
a

known speed limit for softening the beard. You can
et your face ready for shaving in less time with
Willams? than with any shaving cream you ever used.

In the second place, Williams’ has a positive effect
for good on the skin. Your
face, with the wholesome care
which Williams’ gives, iskept
in better condition and made

Test out these advantages
which Williams’ offers. Start
with Williams’ to-morrow
and see what a time saver it
is and how it helps make

That’s why the Williams’

First of all, it exceeds every

Notice the hinged
cap. You can't
lose it—and the

tube hangs up!

Dees

|
