THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 15, 1923

RELIGIOUS NEWS

CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP
MR. NEWELL’S THEME

A mire gathering was present to hear
Mr. J. F. Newell, of Charlotte, prominent in
political and legal affairs of the State, who
addressed the Y. M. C. A. Sunday evening.

Arnett Gamble presided, introducing the
speaker of the evening. Buck Currie led
in the song service, and Purdy, Thompson,
and Finn furnished the instrumental music.
Eugene Regan and Layton Fraser led the
house in prayer after the opening songs.
Gamble read the scripture lesson for the
evening, which was found in John 2, a ciap-
ter in which Christ’s leadership in shown.
Mr. Newell was then introduced.

“Leadership” was the theme of which Mr.
Newell based his remarks.

“The world,” said the speaker, “is in a
terrible condition. Nations are suspicious
of each other. We have fallen because the
world is full of greed. It is full of the
desire for power, for money, and for pleas-
ure which destroys man’s character. Men
are giving, and nations are giving their
energies, their very lives, in their desire for
wealth, power and pleasure.

“The world today needs leadership, Chris-
tian leadership, to save it from the perils
confronting. it. Honest, sincere. thought is
necessary for overcoming the existing evils,
and this thought must come from men who
are honest and sincere Christian leaders.
Today there is a class hatred growing up.
Although we live in a democracy, still we
are ruled by a minority, and will continue
to be ruled by them as long as the minority
thinks and the majority follow the minority
without thinking for themselves, “We need
transformation, not reform. We must be
made over, not patched up as second-hand
material, -To bring about this transforma-
tion there must be a new leadership, ruled
by right.

“An educated mind without an educated
heart is a menace to humanity. If our coun-
try, teaches. the sciences and knowledge of
the day to barbarians, without at the same
time teaching the principles of Christ, they
have made the world worse instead of bet-
ter. Christ was lifted up that He might
draw all men unto Him. Those who are
brought to Him are lifted up, and by them
the world is helped.

“Your view of leadership determines the
amount of good you will do to this world.
The only true kind of leadership is the
leadership after Christ. The world calls for
men today who will stand up for their Chris-
tian principles against the world. We need
men who are different. “Martin Luther, who
dared to stand for his religion, made Ger-
many to prosper, and when she turned from
his teachings she turned toward her doom.
John Calvin, John Wesley and Knox made
England better than all the other men of
their generation, because they proclaimed the
greatness of God. When England turns
from their teachings she will turn her face
from the light, and when America turns
away, she, too, will have seen her brightest
day. “The most powerful man today is he
who most fearlessly proclaims. the truth of
God. He is the man that the world needs
today. ‘

“America was founded on the Cross; the
Constitution of the United States was writ-
ten and signed after much prayer to God.
Man’s destiny depends on his attitude toward
sity No one can be a true leader without

tion.” The keyword of the conference was
prayer. At the State Volunteer headquarters
all the workers, even to the elevator-boy,
gather at 11 o'clock each day for prayer.
The fact was emphasized that an ocean voy-
age does not make a missionary. Unless we
are working for the Master here, we will not
be good workers when we arrive in a foreign
country.

The returned missionaries and foreign stu-
dents who addressed the conference were
enthusiastic over the work. There are Syri-
an students, who want to return to their
homes as missionaries to the Turks, although
the Turks have almost exterminated their
people.

The conference was full of friendliness,
but underneath all of it there was a more
serious feeling. These Volunteers prove that
it is entirely practicable to be light-hearted
over one’s religion. In the meetings, the
denominational differences are lost sight of
and all are fundamentally one.

One of the speakers said: “You can’t
think of Napoleon without thinking of war.
you can’t think of Mozart without thinking
of music. What do people think of when
they think of you?

The Volunteer Conference will be held
this year at N. C. State on the 9th, 10th
and 11th of March. All students who can
are urged to attend.

T).

CHRISTIANITY HAS NOT

FAILED, SAYS PASTOR

Sunday morning, Doctor Richards showed
that simply because Christianity has not
worked out in its fullest form on earth as
reported in the prophecies about the Millen-
nium, Christianity has not failed in the least
sense of the word. God’s plans are infinite
and the little glimpse which one generation
has does not disprove the prophecies.

Because of the atrocities committed on
earth; because of the late war; because
things seem to be evil, people claim that there
is no such thing as the millennium, and that
Christianity has failed. The Israelites also
said God had failed them when He did not
take them immediately into the Promised
Land. 4

“No,” says Doctor Richards, “God has not
failed, it is the people who have failed.
Christian principles never fail. He then
went of to cite various national policies that
were guided by Christian principles that did
not fail; such as the United States giving
back to China the surplus indemnity, our
dealings with the Phillipine Island, ect. Be-
cause we did not ratify the League of Na-
tions treaty, it was not Christianity that
failed, but the people—because of unbelief.

SA. proverb says, ‘Do not show an incom-
pleted work to a fool.’ The bringing of
nations together into the millennial stat is
an incompleted word. Let us not scoff at
God’s principles, but let us practice them in
our lives and in our business and see that
they are the remedy for all evil.”

D.

What’s Doing

THURSDAY
Eu Society, 7:00 p. m.
Phi Society, 7:00 p. m.
Wildcats vs. Wake Forest, at Wake
Forest.

FORMER NOTED ARTIST
TO ADDRESS STUDENTS

Next Sunday the Davidson “Y” will have |
the privilege of hearing an artist, Mr. Mc- |
Kendree Robbins Long. e

Mr. Long, who is from Statesville, was a

1908, Since then he has studied art both in
American and foreign schools, under great
masters. After his return from abroad, he
taught in an art school in Los Angeles, Cal.,
and has contributed much to the world of
American art. Of especial interest are some
of his productions which hang on the walls
of the Supreme Court room in Raleigh and
other prominent places on the State.

Last fall, Mr. Long voluntarily gave up
his brilliant career for the ministry of the
gospel. His work is in connection with the
Presbyterian Church.

Such a man cannot fail to have a wonder-
ful message for young men who are just
starting their careers. His example will
serve to stir others to think seriously before
definitely choosing their life work.

D.

CAPTAIN HEARN TALKS

The Ministerial Band was fortunate in
having Captain Hearn speak at its meeting
Sunday morning. The speaker impressed the |
members of the band with the fact that |
what Mexico needs is ministers made of the!
right mettle. No matter what a man’s busi- |
ness is, he has a candle some where, and it,
could be of help to some one, “Ministers,”
the speaker said, “do not cease to be citi-
zens when they accept pastorates, and they |
should make it a part of their work to help |
put the right man in office. Mexico today is
full of dishonest statesmanship, and the
people seem to have been born for dishon- |
esty.” Captain Hearn gave an interesting
account of his stay in El Paso and San An-
tonio.

“Their soil-is.poor, no timber on the land,
and very little food. Occasionally you will
find a school, taught by Americans. The
people spend all of their spare time at cock
fights. The only churches they have are
Catholic, and very few of those.”

The speaker impressed the members of
the band with the fact that the ministry
is the biggest, best and most wholesome in-
vestment that a man can make, and urged
that the members of the band place their
candles on candlesticks so that their light
will shine in the dark corners,

D.

GLORIA SWANSON STARS
IN WEEKLY MOVIE SHOW

Gloria Swanson was the star in the picture,
“My American Wife,” at the weekly movie
Saturday night. She played the role of
Natalie Chester, a native of Kentucky and
the daughter of the American ambassador
at Buenos Aires, Argentine.

Natalie, a girl with a passion for horse
racing, met with a Spanish nobleman, Man-
uel Santos, at one ofthe races, and this
meeting was the beginning of their romance.
Manuel was the sheriff of Cordoba, but took
little interest in the discharge of his duty.
He arranged a reception and invited Natalie.
At this reception he struck Padro, the son
of a political grafter, for insulting Natalie,
and as a result Padro challenged him to a
duel. The duel was fought the next day

student at Davidson for two years, 1907 and|

TO MINISTERIAL BAND

ENDEAVOR TRAINING

CLASS LED BY BARR

An interesting meeting of the Christian
| Endeavor Training Class was held at its
| regular hour in Shearer Hall Sunday.” The
meeting was lead by Barr. The plan for
| the meeting was to imitate a Young Peoples’
| conference and several points of interest in
| tegard to Young Peoples’ and Christian En-
| deavor work were discussed.

The number system started by Mr. Ander-
son about three years ago was discussed.
Mr. Anderson is topic editor for the Chris-
tian Endeavor World and his system is to
assign numbers to different members of the
society and to follow his number system in
the topics which he furnishes in the Christian
Endeavor World. Perhaps one week that
number will be a talk on the topic, and the
next it will be a prayer or some other part
of the program. This system makes an in-
teresting meeting and allows the members
to get a variety of things todo. The system
jis comparatively new and there are many
| societies that do not know of it. If it is tried
\it will be found interesting.

T).

RELAY CARNIVAL WILL
‘ BE HELD IN GEORGIA

The Georgia School of Technology will
holds its first annual intercollegiate Carnival,
April 28, 1923, Grant Field, Atlanta, Ga.

Invitations have been issued to 71 colleges

and 131 prep schools throughout the South
‘’and Southeast. They will be modeled closely
jafter the games held at the University of
| Pennsylvania. And it is the hope of the pro-
moters of these games that they will become
| for the South what the Penn Relays are for
| teams in that section of the country.

Along with the usual relays will be given

| five special events namely: 100-yard dash,
| 120-yard high hurdles, javelin throw, high
{jump and the pole vault._These events are
| Span only to college undergraduates and each
school will be allowed to enter two men in
;each event. Gold, silver and bronze medals
will be given as prizes in these events.

Gold medals will be given to each member
of the winning relay teams in the Class A
events, while silver medals will be given the
winning relay team in the Class B events.

Tech Relays offered will be the half-mile,
one-mile relay, two-mile relay, four-mile re-
lay, and the sprint medley relay in which
the first two men run 220 yards, the third
440 yards and the fourth man 880 yards. —

Davidson athletes are considering entering

train men for the events.

HERE AND
Rev. L. T. Wilds, '05, been recently
called to the pastorate of the church in
Hendersonville, N. C.

J. B. Johnston, ‘90, is a manufacturer of
both flour and furniture at Mocksville, N. C.

George H. Hall, 95, is a banker of Hick-
ory, N. C.

the meet and action will be taken at once to,

PHYSICS LABORATORY
COMPLETELY EQUIPPED

Since the Chambers fire, which destroyed
the physics equipment, the physical labora-
tory has been completely furnished.
Physics I class is now fully
materials and apparatus. To the

Two fifteen-horse power motor gen-
erator sets,.one being an alternating current
motor and the other a direct current motor;
one especially equipped motor generator set
which can be run as a direct current gen-
erator or as an alternating current instru-
ment. This generator is so constructed that
the phase and frequency can be changed and
it canbe converted into an induction or
synchronus motor; one specially designed
induction motor made for laboratories so
that the vatious parts can be inspected and
studied. Besides these, six or eight, smaller
generators and motors and’ a-complete equip-
ment of transformers and auto-starters have
been installed. Apparatus for high fre-
quency and X-ray work, and also a wireless
radio outfit are now being installed.

a |

Fellows

Begin now
to write the
boys you
wish to see
at Davidson
next fall

Columbia Theological Seminary

JOHN M. WELLS, President
COLUMBIA, SOUTH CAROLINA

We wish the Davidson students ¢o note:

That all candidates for the Ministry have a warm wel-

Follow! : : Wildcat Minstrel at Greenville, |Jand Manuel was shot by a ruffian hired by|@ come at Columbia Seminary, but it has special claims upon
Li goss ld "Hl sc. Bike those coming from the Synods of South Carolina, Georgia
FRIDAY He was taken to his father’s country/™ and Florida.
D. Wildcats vs. Elon, there. estate nearby and there Natalie nursed him :
Wildcat Minstrel at Gastonia, N. C. || back to health. His mother arrived after his 5 v a4
VOLUNTEER CONFERENCE RaADe recovery end he inforgediber of is tater IM... Comumbia has.e faculty of eight men, each 9 specialist

in his own department.

III. Columbia is a railway center, with lines branching out
in every direction, enabling the Seminary students to supply
vacant Churches over a very large territory with a minimum
loss of time from the campus.

tion of marrying Natalie. She was very
much displeased and drove Natalie from the
estate.

Upon arriving at her home in the city
Natalie found a request from Padro that he
be allowed to make a call. She at first
spurned the request but after second thought
decided that if she allowed him to call she
might get a Chance to punish him.

After being with him several times she
learned that he had hired a man of base
character to shoot Manuel from ambush on

Wildcats vs. Guilford, there.

Wildcat Minstrel at Charlotte.

Re-examinations, 2.15 p. m.

Jack Holt in “Nobody’s Money,”
7:15 p, m. '

SUNDAY
Volunteer Band, 10:00 a. m.
Ministerial!-Band,_10-00-a.—m:
Christian Endeavor Class, 1:00 p. m.
Sunday School, 3:30 p. m.
“Y” Service, 6:15 p. m.

TO BE HELD AT STATE

The Volunteer meeting was led last Sun-
day by J. L. Green. As a part of the de-
votional exercises, the leader read Roman
12, considering the picture which that selec-
tion gives of an ideal missionary.

. Perrin Hudgins and Payne Brown spoke]
on the Volunteer Conference, which was
pid last year at Greensboro. The purpose

IV.-The standard requirement for the B.D. Degree of this
emninary #99: bieh 8s any in the United States. At the same
time, it gives an excellent English Course, with graduating

rene neuen anes me

Mis hop and think” We are absorbed ONeAY the day of te Gul. Bs GET ae certificates, to those students who are so recommended by

studies here at school and we need Wildcats vs. Wake Forest. spiracy at a critical time and Padro and his|@ their Presbyteries.

eyes elsewhere for a short time TUESDAY father were exiled.. Manuel was married to:
broader view of life. ‘The con-||  yretropitian Snciety, 6:45 p. m. Natalie and resolved that he would dis- V. Sufficient financial aid i rendered. to-all-deserving
Semeectenty © s0et owe Pandemic Society, 7:15 p. m. te he of hs Ameen wile? students through endowed and special scholarship.
* WEDNESDAY pee eae Send for latest
“Wildcats vs, Clemson.

occ Slamma ata a... Nn ay gag a Gai we oe R. MURCHISON, Bxeantive a

i Samkz EASE
a

