8

THE DAVIDSOQNIAN... NOVEMBER 15, 1923

Governor Morrison Aililessans (da

Service With Appeals To Aid Weak

Large Body of Students Hear Chal-
lenge to All Educated Men to
Be of Service to Others

Governor Cameron Morrison, address-
ing the Y. M. C. A. Vesper Service Sun-
day evening, issued a challenge to his
hearers that they use their strength
gained through education for the help
of the less fortunate of the world.

“What are you going to do with your
education when you have acquired it?”
asked the Governor in opening. “It will
take some time, and careful and prayer-
ful consideration to decide what you
shall do With your increased powers.

“If you'use your strength, your powers,

Town News

| With Our Opponents

Misses Sarah and Martha Hamilton,
students of North Carolina College for

|
|
|

| Although Saturday completely squashed
| football dope among’ the “Big Ten” there

for the uplift of the weak. In this land) Women, spent the week-end with their | was not a single upset witnessed among either

of freedom we want no character of
aristocracy, but a pure democracy. Use)
your strength, as did,the knights of old, |
in helping the less fortunate than your-
selves.

“One of the finest traits of character,
a trait which differentiates the Christian
religion from the other religions of the!
world, is to love the less fortunate, the)
weaker, than ourselves,

“T fight for education,” continued the,
chief of the Old North State, “in order |
that those who become educated may |
help the others who are less fortunate.

acquired through education in the right |

channels, for the uplift of the weak, you

will do a great service to your day and} jnany’

generation, to your country and to your|

God.

“The best use you can make of your |
education, if you would use it for the
help of the weak, is to spread abroad |
the spirit of Christianity. There are,
other subsidiary methods, but)
above all is the spirit of Christ. Christ
teaches reverence, love and help for the

“But you can use your powers to hurt | weak.

humanity. The educated crook, the

criminal with an education, is the worst | : ¢ ¢
: é \ jor in the form of government.

criminal, the worst enemy of the state.

“Sometimes education causes us
scorn our fortunate brothers.
causes us to assume false pride, and to

forget the weak. The highest duty of

less

the educated man is to use his strength |

FEEDS?

SEE

W. B. BARNETTE

AND CO.

We specialize in Shoes
and Hose for College Men

WHEN IN MOORESVILLE
Visit

Geo.C. Goodman & Co.

Druggists

Soda Candy

Cigars

Cigarettes Student Supplies

For High Class

PRINTING

of every description

+

“‘Jam-Up”’

SERVICE

see

ELKINS & PRICE

Davidsonian Office

Agents for

Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Quality Printers

Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.

SODA

PARKER COLLEGE FOUNTIN PENS
AND

A ‘SERVICE. THAT CARRIES THE ENTHUSIASM
OF A CLASS RUSH

S Pharmacy, Ine.

201 North Tryon St.

Lyneh’

It |

“No -progress can be made in religion
The reli- |

parents, Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Hamilton.

Miss Grace James, who is now teach-

ing English in Rosenow, N. C., spent
last week with her aunt, Miss Kate
Douglas.

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas Brown were

the guests this week of Mrs. Brady, Mrs.

| Brown’s mother.

Mrs. Whittaker, Miss Mary Dodson,
and Dr. C. R. Harding motored to Lenoir
and Blowing Rock last week.

Miss Dorothy Finlayson last

week-end in Charlotte.

spent

Mrs. Frank Hall, of Statesville, spent
several days last weck with her sister,
Mrs. Vinson.

Cirele number two of the Woman's
Auxiliary had an all-day quilting-party

| the have-been or would-be opponents of Dav-
|idson, surely, many prejudiced boosters bet
‘on the Tar Heels against the Flying Cadets
jbut there is a little doubt that no reliable
prophet was surprised at her defeat.

“Elon nosed out little Guilford 7-0. This
marked Elon’s first victory over any of the
North Carolina “Inner-team,” and also her
first score against any of the above named.

No one was suprised that State lost to Vir-
ginia Tech. V. P. I. has a team which,
strong in the beginning is apparently getting
| better cach week, what does it mean when
the following scores are noted: Penn State
16; N.C. State, 0. N.C. State, 0; V. P. I.
16?

Furman won another overwhelming vic-
tory;—over South Carolina this time. The
Purple Hurricane has left clean trail
in both the Carolinas and Virginia, having
vanquished some of the best teams in the
three.

a

Plucky little Citadel rested up Saturday.

the serious troubles that confronts both
church and individual today. Also that
Christ’s example in performing certain dut-
ies, as caring for the poor and the distressed,
is not being followed by the church as well
as by some other organizations such as the
Masons.

Christians have been fed so much on the
Bread of Life that they pay little heed to it,
while millions in heathen lands are starving
daily for it.

ONE MORE BOY KILLED IN
FOOTBALL ACCIDENT

The many friends of H. G. Goodykoontz,
student at Davidson, deeply regret to learn
of the death of a younger brother, which ov-
cured at Bluefield, W. Va., last Saturday
as a result of an injury received in a game of
football that afternoon. No details are
available in regard to the nature of his in-
juries. As soon as Goodykoontz received the
message Saturday, informing him of his
brother's injuries he left for home, a later
message telling of the young boy's death. The
smypathy of the entire student body is ex-
tended to one of its members in his sad be-
reavement,

‘ VARIOUS SUNDAY SCHOOLS

las vetvireeers poate at the home of Mrs. J. C. Black last
| Bon of Cirist ts the acme of all religions. | thursday, Eighteen members were
| We cannot improve our religion, but we! present

can increase our methods; our use of the |
| religion of Christ.

Mr. James Black, of Baden, N. C., spent
Sunday with his mother, Mrs. J. C.
Black.

“Our government, in its great basic,
| principles, cannot be beat, despite the
jattacks brought upon it by radical}
|dreamers. Our laws may be amended, |
| but the principles of American govern- |

}ment cannot be improved upon. | re :

FS ; ‘ jternoon, The entertainment of the af-
: Uphold with eur lives, exhorted ternoon was rook. Mrs. Ellis made the
Governor Morrison, “the great principles | highest score. Two guests were present,
of a free and democratic government,! Mrs, J. M. Blue and Mrs. Lloyd Christ-
along with the teachings of the Man of; enbury. Mints were served during the
Gallilee. Christ's purpose is to save the) game, and the refreshments which came
lost, to mend the broken, to strengthen) afterwards consisted of ambrosia and
the strong. So it is our duty to make) cake, Mrs. Hengeveld’s house was very
people happy and more efficient as the! sttractively decorated with chrysanthe-
years go by.” /mums. Four new members have recently

In his concluding words, the Governor | been received into the club, They are:
spoke of the industrial greatness of} Mrs. Dendy, Mrs. Mebane, Mrs. Dusen-
America, pointing out that the greatest | berry and Mrs. Walter Henderson,
glory of our nation lies in helping to
mALeA he , VU. rn ,
Laat re elas at cal Mr. and Mrs. Mebane entertained Mr.

jand Mrs. Fred W. Hengeveld, at dinner

Four “dg r@ atKiyy 1 . | Sr : ;
c hundred and twenty-five students | ja ct Thursday night at their apartment
and friends attended

the services, and |
all went away deeply impressed.

Mrs. Fred W. Hengeveld entertained
the Young Matrons’ Club last Friday af-

| in Miss Bona Potts’ house.

Purdy was pianist, and some members| C., has ben visiting Miss Jane Leyton

nell, who introduced the speaker of the| the Board of Trustees, spent Monday
evening. np Mgeand Mrs. Hengeveld.

pHa ES A ate |
Prof. A, Currie will make a speech to
| the Rotary Club in Salisbury, next Tues-

REPORT FINE REND ENGE| day, November 13th.

The Book Lovers’ Club, will meet next
Friday afternon, November 16th, with
Miss Julia Johnston.

The work at the “Y” Sunday Schools was
encouraging last Sunday. It was an ideal
day and the attendance was good. However, |
many of the regular student teachers Bere
unable to go out.

| Miss Lera Hobbs, of Mitchell College,

Some were away for the | spent last Monday, November 12th at
week end and others were off at different

Saas jonite |home. Her guests for the day were,

*5 on depute s. | Mi 3 i

c ceputations | Misses Rubye Goode, Lois Scroggs,
There were six students who attended | Thelma Fraley and

Mrs. Tomlin, of
Shearer. This was exactly enough for the | Statesville, N.C. ”
classes, since six of the classes at Shearer | ——
are taught by students. A new class of bovs| The regular meeting of the Thelemite
has been organized with J. W. Crinkley as | Club was held at the home of Prof. J. L.
teacher, Douglas, Friday evening, November oth.
Wade Allison was the only one who was} Dr. J. M. McConnell spoke on, “Great
able to go to Cornelius last Sunday. There} Moments in History.” The Hon. J. Stith
was a good attendance. | Wilson, who was the guest of the even-
There were a large number present at the | i"8 Made an interesting short talk.
mill chapel. All of the students who have |
been going were present. The attendance
was 35,
Hobson
veyanice,

Mrs. Gill, of Statesville,

spent the

Chapel because there was no con-| Mrs. Paisley.

MINISTERIAL BAND SENDS
OUT FIVE DEPUTATIONS

Five deputations were sent out during the
past week-end. J. M. Carr and A. C. Wild-
man went to Loray, N. C., to fill Rey. Mr.
Cathey’s pulpit, who was absent conducting
another meeting. They spoke in the morning
at Clio church, and in the afternoon and at

CIGARS

chief topic was consecration.

P. B. Freeland and A. M. Martin composed
the deputation sent to Gastonia. They spoke
to the Christian Endeavor Societies and at
the night service in the First Presbyterian
church, On Monday morning they addressed
the High School students.

Other Deputations sent out were: Stew-
art to Shearer church and Matheson and
Morrison to the «Prospect and Center
churches. All report large congregations
and excellent attention.

Vic Brown led the singing, Wallace | Miss Catherine Gillis, of Statesville, N.|

of the band were present to add to the | Richards. |
music of the occasion. | eee
Ted Jones introduced Dr. J. M. McCon-| Rev. R. Brown, formerly member of

No one went from Davidson to| Week-end in Davidson at the home of |

night to the Concord (Iredell) church. The |

A hectic struggle marked the contest be-
tween Carolina and V. M. L., the same prov-
ing a death blow to the Carolina's ambition
for another undefeated year in the South.
The Flying Cadets won 9-0. Carolina's oth-
er two defeats were administered by Yale

jand Maryland. However, she is still sup-
reme in the Old North State where she has
not lost a game in over three years. She
vhas already scalped two of Davidson's’ con-
|querors, Wake Forest and State. All thi
prophets say that Davidson's chances next
| Saturday are nil. But, may they not be false

| prophets ?:

College men like to do
things on the run!

| Burhoge’s Blue Devils fell before Garri-
|ty’s Deacon Demons from Wake Forest, to
\the decisive score of 16-6. Greason, by his
| stellar playing, cinched a place on the all!-
| State eleven. A comparative resume of Trin-
ity’s record in North Carolina is perplexing,
rather : than satisfactory. She smothered Weare ready at a moments
| both Guilford and Elon, but herself sue- ti E thi th t’
cumbed to both Carolina and Wake Forest notice. verything at s
by close scores. What does this spell: needed ---smart and correct

Fall suits, overcoats, shoes,

Trinity, 6; Wake Forest, 16—Wake Forest,
|6; Davidson 0? : oxfords, hats and furnish-
ings.

MELLON’S

8-10. West Trade Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Not much time to do their
shopping---
There’s where we shine!

|
|
|
|

| The fate of the Wildcats lies in their only
| two remaining games, Carolina and Trinity.
| Shall it be fourth or fifth place? Beware
of false prophets.

DOCTOR CURRIE TEACHES
SUNDAY SCHOOL CLASS

| The College Sunday School class has re-
cently secured for its teacher Prof. Archie
Currie, one of the best liked men on the
Faculty and a man whom all of the college
students will enjoy as their Sunday School
teacher.

Professor Currie’s class on November 11th
was attended by at least a dozen college stu-
dents all of whom enjoyed his talk on Sonic
of the Missionary Teachings of the Psalnis.
Professor Currie, in beginning, said that us-
ually one fault of the teacher is in trying to
stress or handle too many points in the les-
son at one time, whereas if one point was
stressed fully much more could be gotten
from the lesson by both teacher and pupil.
Professor Currie’s main point on the lesson
was that the Church of Jesus Christ has not
been functioning as Christ would have it
function, nor as the leaders of the Church
think that is should be doing. He showed
that in connection with the Church, as well
as with the individual, the proper valuation
and true emphasis on certain things is one of

Yes, we have good things
to eat

The Misses Schofield

Announcing Our New
Location Near Post Office

NORTON 9 BARBER

SHOP

Always Something Good
to Eat

NEW YORK CAFE

DAVIDSON

CHARLOTTE — MOORESVILLE — STATESVILLE
WHITE BUS LINE
Leaves Charlotte
Charlottersccs £20. eter See 7:30 10:30 1:00 5:30
Huntersville '.. 2. -... —.-. 8:10 11:10 1:40 6:10
Wornelius=2:23 <=> 20) 2222 8:25 11:25 1:55 6:25
DayidsOnessse soe eer 8 :30 11:30 2:00 6:30
| Mooresyillés22-s8 = 2 scss oes: 8:45 11:45 2:15 6:45
Mroutmanicsss son- sens abe 9:15 12:15 2:50 7:15
Statesvilles222. sans Bes ee 9 :30 12:30 3:05 7:30
A. M. A. M. P. M. P. M.
Leaves Statesville

A. M. A. M. P. M. P. M.

Statesyillezese cee eee 8:00 10:00 2:00 4:30
MroutMalyvess- soso teaes ease 8:15 10:15 2:15 4:45
Mooresville -. ---- ---- ---- 8:45 10:40 2:45 5:10
Dayidsonec- = 2225) See Soo 9:00 10:55 3:00 5:25
Gorneliusves2*:-=--— Sess ese 9:05 11:00 3:05 5:30
Huntersville -. ---. ---. ~..- 9 20 11:20 3:20 5:45
Charlottes 2 eee 10:00 12:00 4:00 6:30

For Further Information See Driver

