4

THE DAVIDSONIAN,

NOVEMBER 1, 1923

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association .
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

dson

Published Weekly by the Students of Davi

College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief
siness Manager

LISTON D, ELKINS
REGINALD L, PRIC

Staff

= Editorial
C. M. S. McILWAINE.-..---Managing Editor ee
|j A, LAKE_.....Assistant Managing Editor W. Z. BRADFORD. Editor
1, B. PRICE.....Assistant Managing Editor A. C. WILDMAN i Editor
W. F. GALLOWAY. Athletic Editor W. M. COX... -Associate Editor
W. M. HESTON Orgs .---Alumni Editor

~-----Peanut Parcher Editor

‘ALLISON

Business Staff
.-Advertising kK. S. McALPIN

J. R. BRIGGS Subscription

Rk. W. OELAND TN Advertising W. H. CROMWELL -Bookkeeper
P. J. STORY... _.-_.-.. Subscription A, M, HURD..:.....-- Department
J. M. GARRISON. pases

Assistant

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT

WATT McCAIN, Manager J. A. THOMPSON, Assistant Manager

REPORTERS’ CLUB
Came (iS. 7

EDITORIAL

E PAUCIS UNUM

Many men and women attend college or university because it is the
stylish, the customary or the proper thing to do. Others attend because
there is nothing clse to do, There is another group, however, made up of
students who desire to equip themselves for service in life.

To which group do you belong? Are you a fugitive from the ranks
of service, hiding under the cover of college? Are you the unfortunate
victim of a fashion-plate mother or father who would die of shame if the
son and heir were not surface-vencered in college? Or do you belong to
the group desirous of the acquisition of a knowledge and a deeper,
ingrained polish that fits one for fruitful service ?

Colleges are too crowded and every year many applications are turned
away from college doors. If anyone should be deprived of a higher educa-
tion it should be that person who is merely veneering. Do you deem
yourself worthy of the place you have secured in your college, or should
you give place to one of the many applicants who were denied entrance
last year?

Your four years of preparation must be made to count for something ;
else you have stolen from some other fellow an opportunity for success
in life. You may be interested in one or more of a varied line of studies
or activities, but wherever your interest and enthusiasin may be directed,
it is your duty to make it count for something that will be of value to you
in later life.

You are one of the chosen, You were regarded as possessing eminent
qualities pointing toward a life of service to mankind, self, and God, when |
you were accepted as a college student. Wil you be true to the trust
placed in you?

D

MAKE IT UNANIMOUS

On Saturday after the Wake Forest game in Charlotte, a man who
played on one of the leading teams of the South for four years, and who
has acted as official, and followed football for a number of years, made
this statement: “I have followed football for the past twenty-five years,
as player, official, etc., and I have never seen such a fine exhibition of pep |
and sportsmanship as you Wildcats have shown this afternoon, 1 con-
gratulate you.”

The Wildcats lost to the Baptists from Wake Forest, and they lost |

fairly, fighting to the last play, but from the standpoint of the Davidson-
ian there was a victory won on Wearn Field.
gridiron, it is trae, but this conflict was fought in the bleachers where the
Davidson student body was seated. ‘

It was a battle- between enthusiasm and listlessness, between pep and
indifference, between spirit and apathy, And the laurels went to the Wild-
cat Spirit. At no time during the contest did the spirit of the men from
Davidson lag, and at no time did those men feel that the game was lost.
The crucial moments when the Wildcat line could not hold, and when the
breaks favored the Baptists, served only to add stamina to the spirit of the
Wildcats.

There were approximately five hundred men in the stands, and about
two hundred and fifty of this number gave all they had in spirit for their
team. The other two hundred and fifty depended. upon their fellow stu-
dents to win the victory.

The words spoken by the official at the Wake Forest game should be
a challenge to every man registered at Davidson to take an active part in
the spirit of the game. If two hundred and fifty men can merit the praise
of the onlookers, five hundred men can win their hearts. In addition they
can win the confidence of the team they are backing. Ask any member
of a college team what “confidence of the student body” means to him.
His answer will send pangs of remorse and shame through your whole
body if you are one of the two hundred and fifty men who were silently
watching the Wake Forest game. : ;
Davidson has a spirit that make of a little school a great school.
Never let it die! Every man for his team and for Davidson!

Mrs. Smith, supervisor of dormitories, appreciates the co-operation

~of the student body in maintaining comfortable, sanitary dormitory con-

ditions. The student body has the same appreciation for the faithful

efforts of Mrs. Smith, Bnd every man on the campus is grateful to her
for her interest in making dormitory life more cheerful and home-like.

It was not won on the’

| WILDCAT NET MEN SWEEP
MEET WITH WAKE FOREST

(Continued from page 1)
to keep the ball low and Agelasto. had no
more chances of hitting the ball with the pe-
culiar flat chop which he had been using to
advantage on high bounds. His game lost
its sting and he was forced from the offen-
sive to the defensive. Harry's deep shots

found the corners and the back line and he |

ran the set out with little trouble. The .set
ended with the score 6-4, Agelasto getting
but one more game.

Price continued his driving tactics *in the
second set, whipping the ball from one side
of the court to the other and occasionally go-
ing to the net to end a point. Agelasto man-
aged to lift one game in which he came to
the forecourt and dropped several low vol-
It seemed that Harry
had taken. the bit in his teeth and he raced
through to a 6-1 win.

Price showed distinct superiority on all
strokes, his service and ground strokes be-
ing particularly good. His game was mar-
red gy erratic playing at the opening. Agel-
asto proved a worthy opponent and put up a
closer fight than the score would indicate.
His of at
Price, and a little more speed would have
made him dangerous,

T. I. Staley and C. M, Townsend staged
the No, 2 match on the North court. The
Wildcat man was bothered by a game leg
and he played the last two sets on little more
than grit.

leys over the barrier.

change pace times bothered

The two players were about ev-
cnly matehed on the service and in the air
but Staley had the edge on ground: strokes,
He mixed cuts and lofts with such success
that it bewildered his opponent,
off to a good start and annexed the first
set 6-1. Here, he let down a bit and Town-
send pressed his advantage. Before T. F,
could recover the Wake Forest player had
won it 6-3, After a short rest Staley brought
out the old Wildeat come-back and took the
third set and the mateh on sheer ability to
keep the ball in’ play.

the third
defeated

Staley got

In and = fourth matches Mae
Beall D. W. Bland the last
center court, 6-4, and 6-0, while Jim Trotter
won from B, F. Slate on the West center,
6-3, 6-3. The Davidson players held the up-
per hand at all times and were kept from dis-
playing brilliant tennis only by the slowness
Mace Beall played
in his usual style and was never forced to
extend himself against Bland. Tim ‘Trotter,
a new man on the D.C. team, performed like
a veteran, His forceful drives’kept his man
on the defensive.

on

of their opponent's play.

Combined in the doubles, the Wildeats
scored as decisively as they had in the sing-
les. Beal and Trotter, with Jim's service and
Mae’s net work, did not fail in defeating
Bland and Slate to the tune of 6-4, 6-4.

The last match, the No. 1 doubles with
Price and Staley against the Agelasto-Town-
send combination, developed some of the best
the The Wildcats
played together splendidly and held their ri-
vals on the defensive at all times. But the
6-0, 6-1 Davidson win tells nothing of the
brilliant play. The ball back and
forth in long rallies time and again. How-
ever, the Wildcats always were able to bring
forth the deciding stroke.

tennis of afternoon,

sizzled

The Wake Forest team did not seem dis-
couraged by their defeat and Manager H. B.
Edwards hopes to bring them against the
Wildeat racketteers again in the spring.

The various matches were ably refereed
by Vie Brown, C. W. MeCrary and D, J.
Kelly. The summary :

Singles :

H. Price d. A. Agelasto, 6-4, 6-1.

T. F. Staley d. C. M. Townsend, 6-1, 3-6,
6-2,

Mae Beall d. Bland, 6-4, 6-0.

J. Trotter d. Slate, 6-4, 6-4.

Doubles :

Price-Staley d.
6-1,

Beall-Trotter d. (Bland Slate, 6-4, 6-4.

Agelasto-Townsend, 6-0,

PANDEINIC PROGRAM SHOWS
' PREPARATION AND STUDY,
Members of the Pandeinie Literary So-
ciety enjoyed a very interesting program at
the meeting on October 20th. The subject
for debate was, Resolved, That State Censor-
ship of Moving Pictures Should be Adopted
by the United States. The affirmative side,

upheld by L. P. Cox and J. Thompson, re--

ceived the vote of the judges against the
inegative side, supported by F. T. Franklin
and M. C. Stith, thought the vote of the
house was in favor of the negative. Stith
showed very conclusively the absolute neces-
‘sity for a change in the taste and demand of
the public theatre-goers before any better-
ment of the moral of pictures could be real-
| ized.

| E. N. McCutcheon delivered a very en-
|joyable declamation. The entire program
showed results of thorough and careful
preparation by those taking part.

DR. JOHN W. RUSKIN

(Continued from page 1)

reaches 80 or more below zero, while their
summer temperature is around 30 degrees
In contrast to the small ice houses
were shown the enormous blocks of ice float-
ing in the chilly waters. They indeed seemed
like mountains, and considering that four-
{fifths of a berg is below the surface of the
water, it is difficult to conceive of the bulk
jof one of them.
' The pictures next jumped to India, the
Mand of the tiger, the elephant, the monkey,
; the snake, and the ant. The most wonderful
and thrilling picture of the evening was the
| hunting of tigers from clephant back, in
{Which several fairly close-ups of the hunted
‘tiger were shown, To get these pictures was
not only hazardous in the extreme but a
most unusual and generally considered im-
possible task. Some fine views of the wild
felephants were given and in this too the task
Was one requiring both skill and patience.
The monkeys, which are one of the sacred
animals of India, were seen in their, temples
Where hundreds of them live. A fight be-
tween a monkey and a rooster was likewise
very interesting. The deadly pythons were
a source of interest and awe as they were
shown perfectly by the native
charmers, The ants which destroy
much vegetation in India, proved to be much
larger than the largest of our ants. The ant-
cater that is so valuable to the farmers of
this land proved to be a queer looking beast
about the size and in general appearance re-
sembling a dog about as much as anything
else,

above.

controlled
snake

As one approached the Ganges River, the
large crowds on its banks and in the water
were accounted for by the fact that this
river is considered sacred by the Indians and
everyone comes to bathe in it. Some mothers
of certain throw their young
babies into it and Jet them drown to insure
eternal life for them as they believe. The
ashes of the dead, which are creamated, are

tribes even

thrown into the Ganges also.

Pictures were next shown of the priests of
the native religions in their tattooed and
painted make-ups which are used by every
cast as distinguishing marks. The devotion
of these peoples to their faith was proved
in the example of men drinking the’ ditry
water from a hole in the pavement since they
were taught this was a means of acquiring
merit with the gods.

The tedk wood, which is the hardest of all’
woods, was seen in its native forests and in
the lumber camps of the South Sea Islands.
Due to.the number and quality of snakes that
make their homes in these forests, this is an

especially dangerous business ‘and many lives
are Jost cach year in this way. The ele-
phants are used mainly in drawing the huge
trunks from the forests and in handling thent
in the camps. In fact the modern crane gives
place to the clephant with his mighty
strength,

SUNDAY BIBLE CLASSES HELD
IN DORMITORIES

behind the Bible
The truth of this statement is certi-
fied by the large number of students who
attended the meetings of the class on each
floor of every building last Sunday morning
at 10 o'clock. It is estimated that one-third
of the student body was present at the vari-
ous meetings. This fact is gratifying to
those in charge, and an incentive to make the
classes even more interesting than they al-
ready are.

These classes are being conducted primarily
for the students’ benefit. The name “Bible
Classes” thay convey the impression that the
3ible is the book which is discussed. How-
ever, it is not a strict study of the Bible, but
takes up the problems of the student just
before and after he enters college. Bible
references are used in applying them to the
life of the student. The many problems that
sometimes face a student merit a great deal
of discussion. The whole thought of the
class is to be of benefit ‘to the student, and
this seems to be one of the best ways.

Professor Fleagle meets the leaders of the
classes every Wednesday night at 9:30. He
is proving to be a very efficient instructor.
In addition to meeting the leaders cach Wed-
nesday night Professor Fleagle also conducts
a Bible class in Spanish on Sunday morning
at the same time as the other classes. Vis-
itors are always welcomed at the meeting of
the leaders and at the Spanish Bible Class.

The only change in leaders, as published
in last week's Davidsonian, is that P. C.
Henderson is leader of the class on the sec-
ond floor of West Dormitory instead of Vic
Brown. }

The committee on itivitation, under the
leadership of Harry Price, lined up many
of the students for the classes. “Some of
them might have been missed. The commit-
tee and leaders urge every one to be present

The student body is

classes.

at the meeting.

CAPTAIN WEEMS GIVES
| " GRAPHIC PICTURE

(Continued from page 1)
| the cadets are required to attend divine serv-
ices. About ten per cent go to the Catholic
Chapel, all others to the Cadet Chapel.”

Captain Weems continued by saying that
West Point has a cosmopolitan student body
in the matter religion—M ohammedans,
‘Jews, Mormons, Protestants, Catholics—all
denominations being represented. No man is
forced to attend services contrary to his be-
liefs but everyone worships in his chosen
faith.

On Sunday morning the cadets, in white
uniform, march to chapel where an inspiring
sermon is preached by the Chaplain usually
the best chaplain in the U. S. Army. A cadet
wishing to attend church with his mother or
sweetheart may go to chapel for communion
early in the morning and return to enjoy
the company of his lady, perhaps to take a
walk with her down /lirtation Walk.

of

The second phase of West Point religious
life as pointed out by Capt. Weems is the
Cadet Y. M. C. A. As at Davidson, every
cadet is ex-officio a member of the “Y" and
is privileged to attend the services held on
Sunday evening after supper. At these serv-
ices a talk is made. by the chaplain, some vis-
iting speaker, or one of the officers, the
latter often taking advantage of this occasion
to the merits of their particular
branch of Army service.

In connection with the Y. M. C. A., Bible
classes are held every Sunday. In 1915 there
were 250 men enrolled in these classes, in-
cluding every creed and sect. So tactfully are
the classes conducted, however? that no fric-
tion arises with regard to creed.

present

Capt. Weems spoke of the questions which
are usually asked a plebe entering West
Point. Usually the first ones are, Who are
you? Where are vou from? What was your
previous training? and slre you a Hell-dod-
ger,’ The last question is seldom answered
in the negative, proving the scarcity of ag-
nostics and infidels at West Point.

As the last and perhaps the greatest reli-
gious influence at West Point, the speaker
told of a Bible Class coriducted for years by
the late Miss Anna Warner, who lived on
Constitution Island, opposite the campus. Ca-
dets spent many pleasant Sunday afternoons
in paddling a canoe across to the Island and
sitting in Miss Warner's class, while this
lady spoke in a very forceful way on helpful
Bible lessons. Miss Warner always ended her
talks with some sweet remark to drive home
the point made, such as “Isn't it sweet to
have such promises as these given us in the
Bible 2” Miss Warner was spoken of as one
of the best friends the Cadets ever had.

In conclusion Capt. Weems spoke of the
inspiring influence of our flag. To quote
his exact words:

“Hovering over both the grounds and the
buildings is the influence of the flag. As a
cadet it floating from its tall white
staff, somehow it has come to have a differ-
ent meaning from the days when he was a
care-free civilian, It seems to him to pos-
sess a personality of which he was never be-
fore aware. He feels for it a real revere-
ence, because he is conscious of being in the
presence of something big, as if beholding
the whole power of a nation. He sees in it
the emblem of the country’s sovereignty and
the symbol to which he has pledged his life’s
service. Mingled with his feeling of rever-
ence is his personal affection. Day after
day he has watched it silhouetted against the
sky and has felt the thrill of patriotism,
when it was being lowered at retreat to the
accompaniment of The Star-Spangled Ban-

ner,

sees

MINISTERIAL BAND TAKES
OVER DEPUTATION WORK

The Ministerial Band is setting out to do
a great work this year in the deputation
field. Upwards of 60 Presbyterian ministers
in this section of North Carolina have been
‘corresponded with and results of the corre-
spondence are beginning to come in. Last
Sunday three deputations were sent out.
D. B. Walthall and L. L. Peck conducted
services at Hopewell Church, near Hunters-
ville, and A. N. Moffett and S. F. Bryant
preached at Gilwood. M. C. Stith filled the
pulpit’ at Shearer. The Band has secured
‘eight deputations for this month.

On these deputations the ministerial stu-
dents present the need, call and opportunities
for service in the ministry. These talks,
| presented primarily to and in the interest of
the young people of the church, are peculiarly
appropriate in coming from young men who
have given their lives to whole-time Chris-
tian service and who can still attack the
problems of life from the young person’s
‘point of view. Moreover, the deputations
‘are of great value in the strengthening of
ithe convictions of those who speak. The
; band, for this reason also, is making an es-
(Continued on page 5)

i
