THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 8, 1923

5

LITERARY NEWS

DEBATE WITH TRINITY
TO BE HELD APRIL 13TH

Professor Wagner, in a short speech after
chapel on Saturday morning, told of the
-plans for the Trinity debate. The debate
is to be held here on April 13, and the pre-
liminaries on March 16.

Professor Wagner said that although
debating is not generally considered a sport,
it is, nevertheless, an intercollegiate contest.
He says that although Trinity has beaten us
in athletic contests, there is no reason why
they should beat us in debating. Professor
Wagner urged all society members who
could do so to come out for the preliminaries.
He expressed himself as willing to help any-
one who desires aid in preparing this debate.
The query is: Resolved, that tax-exempt
securities should be prohibited by a Con-
stitutional Amendment.

D.

EUMENEAN SOCIETY
HOLDS SHORT MEETING
The regular meeting of the Eumenean
Literary Society, held Thursday, March 1,
was exceptionally short and devoid of
interest. All the program was omitted except

the debate in order that the members might |:

attend the Phi Beta Kappa_ installation
ceremonies, -

A code of rules governing the action of
judges in all debating, declamation and ora-
torical contests was passed by the house.
The code has been passed by the Phis, and
if passed by the two remaining societies will
probably be published later.

The debaters were as follows:
Moss, Broughton; Barr, ‘I.
Allison, W. H. Bowie.

D-
PANDEINICS ENJOY
INTERESTING PROGRAM

The Pandeinic Literary Society, meeting
for the second time under the new adminis-
tration, enjoyed a varied and interesting pro-
gram. The debaters fought to the bitter end
and came out with divided honors. The
house backed. up Huie and Moore in their
assertion that the, United States should have
a high tariff, while the judges upheld Cox
and Garrison, of the opposite side.

J. R. Maxwell waxed pathetic in his rep-
resentation of “Guilty or Not Guilty,” the
story of a household tragedy, caused by a
fanciful whim which was allowed to grow
into an obsession.

The other two participants were Perrin
Hudgins, on for oration, and Frank Wild-
man, Current Everits. Hudgins gave a
striking and exhaustive discourse on “Suc-
cess, What It Is and How Achieved.” ‘The
Current Events were just the right quantity
of news and that would be interesting to any
wide-awake audience.

D

METROPHILIANS HEAR
APPEAL FOR DEBATING

The regular meeting of the Metrophilian
Literary Society was held in Phi Hall
Thursday night. Although many were absent
the program was better than usual. The
debate on free tariff was upheld on the
affirmative by McBryde and Bradford, while
the negative was successfully defended by
Brunkhardt and D. B. Wharton, This de-
bate was lively and good arguments were
used on both sides. Declamations were de-
livered by Patterson and Christenbury. Just
before adjourning, Professor Wagner. gave
an impromptu talk, making an appeal for
more interest in debating. He touched on
the faults of college debaters in general and
some methods of correcting them.

D.

DOUGLAS McLEAN STARS
IN WEEKLY MOVIE SHOW

In the movies Saturday night Douglas
McLean played the role of Sam Harrington
in “The Hottentot.” The picture was a suc-
cess from beginning to end. Although the
plot was not so good, yet the picture had
that entertaining quality which makes a
fellow forget his worries and troubles.

Hottentot was a horse which no one could
ride, and Sam Harrington was a yachtsman
who had a decided dislike for horses. Sam
had some friends, the Guilfords, on Long
Island who were found of horse racing. One
day while at the Guilford home, along with
others, he took part in the pursuit-of a run-
away horse which carried a relative of the
Guilford’s. On being the first one to reach
the runaway and rescue the girl he was
proclaimed a hero.

Aff.—
Neg.—Brigs,

The picture then showed how, after much
reluctance, he was induced to ride the
Hottentot. He stayed on for a while but
at last was thrown, taking with him the
bridle and a portion of the mane. He was
made a hero this time for being the first
one to ride the Hottentot.

In an exciting race he rode the Hottentot
and won the cup for the girl whom he loved.
The picture was full of hilarious fun all the
way through and was enjoyed to the fullest
extent. :

D.

{ . .0.T.C. NEWS

A mass field meet combined with the
Military Carnival feature is planned for
April 11. During the last two years, the
four companies of Davidson's R. O. T. C.
have entered into some competition of some
kind for the honor flag.

The first of these competitions was a field
meet. The program was very interesting
to both the participants and the spectators.
The winner of this meet was Company C,
under the command of Cadet Captain J. C.
McCaskill.

The following year each company selected
a sponsor and worked up an original military
stunt and contested for the flag on Armistice
Day. ‘These military stunts were judged for
their originality, precision and smoothness of
execution, Company B, sponsored by Miss
Helen Gibbs, of Davidson, N. C., represent-
ing the Goddess of the Harvest, and com-
manded by Cadet Captain T’. M. Lowry, the
president of the student body, was the
winner, :

‘Today Company B is again commanded by
a president of the student body who believes
that history repeats itself. Company C is
commanded by a man, tall and slender as
was McCaskill, and, too, one with the knack
of patting things across. Last» year Com-
pany D came a close second. ‘This year it
is commanded by an honor student and is
determined to place first. Company A stands
for First Company, and under the leadership
of a snappy ex-service man stands an excel-
lent chance of proving the correctness of
such a designation.

Many of the events will be spectacular.
Several thrills and a close competition are
in store for all. Each company will enter
from eight to thirty-two men in each event.
This, in connection with the scoring method
adopted, will make it hard for a company,
which is depending on a few stars, to win.
A high general average will stand a better
chance,

The program will be announced in these
columns later.

The Senior Class in R. O. T. C. will soon
hegin work on the plans for a terrain exer-
cise” to be held at the close of the Senior
work, The present plans are for all com-
panies to participate with a certain percent-
age taking the defense as enemies, and the
remaining part of the companies will become
the offense, attacking the enemy. Cadet
Major W. J. Cooper will be in command at
these exercises.

Drills on Wednesday afternoon in the
future will last for two hours, during which
time the work -will be mostly on the field
meet to be held April 11, and on the terrain
exercises to be held later. The extra hour
of drill on Wednesday will replace an hour
of drill on some other day of the week.

Des

Mike—You look almost sweet enough to
kiss.

Happy—I
almost.

intended to look better than

And they asked me how I did it,
And I gave ’em the Scripture text,
“You keep your light so shining,
A little in front o’ the next.”
They copied all they could follow,
But they couldn’t copy my mind,
An I left ’em sweating and stealing
A year and a half behind.

D.

I like to see a man proud of the place in
which he lives. I like to see a man who lives
in it so that his place will be proud of him.
Be honest, but hate no one; overturn a man’s
wrong doing, but do not overturn him unless
it must be done in overturning the wrong.
Stand with a man that stands right. Stand
with him while he is right, and part with him
when he goes wrong.—Abraham Lincoln.

THE REEL STUFF

LOST AND FOUND
WATTS’ FIRE

LOST—Waterman fountain pen, nickel filler

on barrel and gold clip on cap, cap broken.

Please return to 312 East.

“Grandma's Boy” will be seen here next
week. It is one of Harold Lloyd’s famous
five-reel comedies. At-the time it came out
it was said to be his best comedy. Some
maintain that “Doctor Jack” is his best.
There are some, however, who still hold
that “Grandma’s Boy” represents the acme
of Lloyd comedy. There is no doubt of the
fact that there is more spontaneous humor
in “Grandma’s Boy” than in “Doctor Jack.”
This picture was run for three consecutive
days, that is, shown eighteen times, and to
a crowded house cach time, at the Imperial
Theatre in Charlotte. ‘There will be a Pathe
Review shown along with the main feature.

On March 17 the Davidson-Cornelius Post
of the American Legion will present “The
Man Without a Country.”

Something of the bigness of “When
Knighthood Was In Flower” may be shown
by the following:

It cost one million dollars to produce it.

Three thousand costumes were used.

Works of art were secured from several
world-famous museums,

There are
besides extras.

One scene contains three thousand persons,

D

FRESHMEN REPRIMANDED
BY COURT OF CONTROL

The Court of Control has been functioning
steadily during the last four weeks, although
the student body as a whole may not be
aware of the fact. Of the forty odd fresh-
men to appear before the court approxi-
mately one-third only of this number have
been punished by “campusing.”

One of the most beneticial helps that the
Court of Control is rendering the fresh-
men is little realized by the upperclassmen,
owing to the fact that only the striking re-
sults of the court’s functioning are notice-
able—that is, the number of men campussed.
The majority of the cases that come before
the court are those that do not require cam-
pusing as punishment. A stiff talk to the
freshmen concerned is of a gréat deal more
help to him than any penalty would be.

The numerous restrictions that have been
and will be placed on the entire freshman
class demonstratescanother way in which the
court is functioning. In past days, there
would have been many freshmen who would
never have felt the pain of a sophomore’s
paddle, whereas these restrictions are reach-
ing all freshmen and affect all in the, same
manner.

The otfe thing, perhaps, that hinders ‘the
work of the Court of Control is that only
one means of punishing freshmen has been
devised as yet. This is the system of cam-
pusing. The court would. appreciate the
suggestion of any means of punishment that
any member of the student body may deem
advisable. The only proceedure necessary
to put such a suggestion before the Court is
to tell some member and the suggestion will
be carefully considered.

D.

HORSE SHOE PITCHING
SURE SIGN OF SPRING

The annual report of the Davidson Horse-
shoe enthusiasts is long past due and while
horseshoe pitching itself is a sure sign that
spring is here, the fact that the annual report
is coming out is a positive proof that once
more the delightful sport is in season, Not
in the sense that oysters or fish are in season
but professionals are turning out for practice.
The best dope on the line-up for the team is
as follows: Arbuthnot and John D. Mc-
Connell for the singles and Bradley, Mc-
Comb, Jack Beall and: Black for the doubles.
Black is new to the sport since he resides in
the barracks where they pitch according to
the rules laid down in the Ping-Pong book.
‘Lhe team will pitch this year according to
Hoyle.

Coach Aiken claims that the prospects are
exceedingly bright for a fine team and prom-
ises to’cop the State championship. He is
trying to teach the team some form at pres-
ent as he says that is what counts. The
sporting element of the campus is looking
forward to the first match which will be
against the strong Cornelius team. Mount
Mourne will probably be the second.

twenty «persons in the cast,

This article is supposed to be started with|”

the proverbial “spring is here’ but that
phrase: wouldn’t work in with the meter and
besides the student body must know the facts
of the case in order that they may turn out
en masse to support the team. Cheering is
forbidden at the matches but there is no ob-
jection to carrying the conquering heroes
off on the shoulders of the crowd.

The students are backing the team to the
limit. Every one is full of pep for spring
is here.

LOST—HEight-day clock, automobile type,

Now is the time to subscribe.

mounted in green leather. ‘Text books.
Clothes with laundry mark A-66. S. B.

Fewell, 409 West.

LOST—Clothes with laundry number A-152.

. Text books. Please return to F. R. Palmer,
213 West.

FOUND—Numerous text books. Call and
identify yours. James McCutchen, Parlor
West.

LOST—Small leather box containing collar
buttons, belt buckles, etc. Return appre-
ciated. W. J. Cooper, Parlor West.

FOUND Grey cap; dark’ grey sleeveless
sweater; Conklin fountain pen. H. K.
Russel, Parlor West.

LOST—A few items of correspondence,
etc.; return to Parlor West. The David-
sonian,

LOST—A gold ring — onyx with raised
fraternity coat of arms. Please return to

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks

Eversharp Pencils Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens

Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters

W. S..HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

116 West.

@ More students have

of any previous year.

@ Keep in touch with
coming up next fall.

been registered to

date for next session than for same date

that friend who is

PT et titereeesttetreteteperepess peters tettetete tet ebe tte est et tee tets stent terete

HE days of seeing h
shaving cream cap d
past.

be tempted to use Will
whether you cared much

as you do the cap. For
records for fast softening o
= it is good for the skin—
soothes it, keeps it in good
condition always.

Ss Test a tube of Wil-
liams’ by judging it on
every point you can think
of—speed, lather, com-
fort. See if you don’t
think it’s noticeably better.

The High Diving Contesis
Are Over

For here is a cap that can’t get lost.
hinged on. Think what a lot of minutes it
will save. No matter how carelessly you handle
your shaving apparatus, the cap is on to stay.

With a convenience like this cap you might

But once you use Williams’ you'll like it as well

ow fast you can chase a
own the drain pipe are
It’s

iams’ Shaving Cream
for the cream or not.

Williams’ breaks all
f the beard. And more,

Notice the hinged

cap. You can't

lose it—and the

tube hangs up!
e

