THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 29, 1923.

scemnrs 25 22s SY Se
See: 7 Sas

<a
Coa

ATHLETICS

NICHES IN THE WILDCAT:
HALL OF FAME

No. 13—COSMO LOWRY WALKER—'17

D*** FOOTBALL °
D BASEBALL

After one year at Clemson, Cosmo Lowry
Walker, of Columbia, S. C., entered David-
son and for four years proved himself an
indispensible cog in the little Red and Black
machine during the Fetzer regime.

Five feet nine inches tall, and weighing
180 pounds, Walker proved a hard man for
any one to stop, but it was on the defense
that he was feared and known as one of the
greatest defensive backs in the South. He
was a sure tackler and rarely missed his
man, time after time bringing him down
when a failure to get him meant a touch-
down for the opposition. ;

Walker was also an adept at the art of
receiving forward passes and his ability to
intercept the enemy’s passes was uncanny.
Above all he was a hard worker, steady and
dependable, who could be counted on for his
best at all times, and to whom there was no
such thing as being off form. It was due
to his great defensive work in the 1916
Georgia Tech game that the Golden Tor-
nado was held to a single touchdown and
field goal, one of her lowest scores of the
year.

Cosmo was captain of the 1915 eleven and
during the season the Red and Black war-
tiors lost only three hard fought battles.
The neXt spring he played center field on the
baseball team and was a flashy fielder but
his stick work was light. ‘

After leaving Davidson, Walker entered
the service and ag Captain in the Field Artil-

“lery saw service in Erance. After his dis-
charge he entered the highway work and is
now working on the State Highway Com-
mission,

J

THE

Central Cafeteria
“On the Square”

Entrance Next to
- United Cigar Store
on Trade and Tryon

—

“EQUIPMENT for EVERY SPORT” §

BASE BALL

SHOES GLOVES MITTS §
BATS

We sell the
Spalding
Harry C. Lee

Wright & Ditson

RACKETS

Also the
Dayton Steel Racket

We Restring Rackets
Page

Our Davidson Agency is
-THE COMMISSARY

’ Hardware and
Goods Co.

4

Remember we have a date with you on
Sprunt Field this afternoon at 2:30 P. M.
Baseball Saving Time.

Not since 1920 have the Wildcats been
able to set Mr. Holt and his hustling Oak
Ridgers down twice in one season. Since
these two teams first met, in 1911, Davidson
has won nine* games while the fast prep
team has captured four contests. Since the
memory of man runneth not to the contrary,
they have carried off the state prep school
championship.

This year’s tennis team will be chosen
from Bradley, Price, Morris, Frazer, Beall,
Staley, Woodds, Brown, Trotter and Mur-
ray. During the next two weeks each of

The arrangement, assures everyone a fair
chance and Davidson is sure to have another
good season on the courts.

“ALL ROADS LEAD MONDAY—”

The rest will come to you as easily as
swiping candy from a baby. All roads lead
Monday—thru Charlotte to Laray Park in
Gastonia. Captain Crawford will lead his
fighting Wildcats against ‘U. of N. C. Tar-
babies and the tar and hair is sure to fly.
The Red and Black will be out to repeat
their victory over the Chapel Hill lads. They
need your support. Be there to back them!

Our B. V. D. men are looking better
every day. The fine showing made by new
men and the improvement of the veterans
have brought forth many exclamations of
joy from the followers of the knights of the
cinder circuit. Davis, McConnell, Lindar-
wood, Selser, Williford, Smith and several
others are turning in first class times and
distances despite the fact that this is their
first year on the squad.

If your girl kicks you this week, don’t
shoot yourself! Go out for class football!!
The end will come quicker,

The decision of the Executive Committee
of the Athletic Association to give wrestlers
letters is sure to meet with general approval.
Our grapplers worked hard, and altho their
Season was not a success, they upheld the
fighting reputation of Davidson teams,

Captain Weems, one of the R. Oo. T. C.
Officers to be stationed at Davidson next
year, was formerly a star athlete at the
West Point School, having been a linesman

2 for four years and the champion of his

weight in wrestling. He should be of val-
uable assistance to Monk Younger on the

S| gridiron, and during the winter he will prob-

ably take charge of the wrestling and boxing
teams.

DO YOU REMEMBER ’WAY BACK
WHEN—
“Makes no difference if he is a’ hound,
you gotta quit kicking my dog around” was
the latest song hit?

The finest tire
value in the land
teday— and you
don’t have to go
outside of town
to prove itf

Henderson Auto Electric Company
GAS, ‘OILS, BATTERIES, TIRES,

ACCESSORIES, EXPERT params”

Davidson, N. Cc

these men will play every other man twice. |

| the aogier: 7 on the. board

a
<r o
SOPHS DEFEAT FRESH

Saturday afternoon the Sophomore foot-
ball team wrecked the Freshman chances
for the class grid championship, and started |
their championship drive by battering their |
way to 12-0 victory over the yearling team. |

Boggs and Ballard each carried the pig- |
skin across once for the Sophs, and on two)
other occasions the Sophs hammered their |
way inside the 10-yard line. At no time|
during the game did the Freshmen threaten |
never having possession of the ball beyond !
their 45-yard line.

The Sophs started off with a rush and)
made three first downs in a row before the |
Fresh could stop them but their line held on}
their own 30-yard mark and the ball went |
over. The first-year men then made their
only two first downs, one of them coming on
a penalty and were forced to punt. Boggs
fumbled the ball but John Ballard recovered |
on his own 35-yard line.

With Green, Boggs and Ballard carrying |
the ball, the Sophs marched down the field |
65 yards to a touchdown about the middle!

wearing, just notice this:

long time.

On Your Way Through
A Pair of Shoes

On your way through the shoes you are now

If they fit well at just three spote—the heel, the
instep and the toes—they will not look old for a

If they do not fit well there, they will break down
and look old in a short time.

Try Hendrix Shoes next time.
they fit and how long they last.

J. M. HENDRIX & CO.

“THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES”
GREENSBORO, N. C.

See how well

= Qt

xXie——

of the second quarter. Five first downs put

the ball on the 2-yard line and Sook carried
it across in two tries. Score: Sophs 6,
Fresh 0.

Briggs kicked off to Williams, who re-
turned 11 yards to the 21-yard line. On the
fnext Play Anderson recovered a fumble on : ;
the 15-yard line. Green twisted through) Buck is building his million-dollar infield, is
left tackle for 5 yards, and the half ended cutting up around the initial sack this year
with the ball in the Sophs possession on the|as never before—and that’s saying a lot!
10-yard line. Score: Sophs 6, Fresh 0. |His fresh year the smiling Irishman was

Patterson received the kickoff and ran it| Needed worse in the outfield and while there
back 10 yards to the 32-yard line. On the he hung up an enviable record. He finished
next play John Ballard threw a pass to) the season with a perfect fielding average,
Anderson who ran 68 yards to a touch-| and stood second in the batting percentage
down, but Ballard clipped a man from) column. The next two years Pat made him-
behind the 10-yard tine’ and the Sophs were) Sclf at home around first base, and ire
penalized 15 yards, Four plays~gained 5 | given an all-state berth at that position bot

| seasons.
Hol and the ball went over on the 20-yard | Teitiiss bl Pat tates vovalsthing: Headed

in his direction, and very seldom fails to
Three plays gained 4 yards and McMillan! Uncapt? . ‘
| chalk up an “out” against the opposing team.
ihc cOeONe ae ee na He likes to take the impossible chances, and

;
. |make them look easy. But Pat is an even
if tigereriedrenastis stotet Sophie 6) Fresh| more valuable asset to a team at the bat

;than in the field—if that is possible. He
Green ripped off 6 yards around left end) takes a Babe Ruth swing at the ball every
and Sook Boggs circled the other end for 16 time, and when the willow connects—as she
yards. Four plays gained 9 yards and the) has a regular habit of doing—the old apple
ball went over on the 3-yard- line. The seeks a resting place in some remote corn
Sophs recovered the ball on the next play| feld, - ;
when Green intercepted a pass on the, 16-| With Pat at the helm, and with every man
yard line. Boggs went through left tackle) out showing the real Wildcat fighting spirit,
for 13 yards and Ballard carried it over coach Buck and coach Dutch have all the
for a touchdown. Score: Sophs 12, Fresh requisites necessary for a team that should
0. make a record for Davidson on the dia-
mond this year. Watch out, ye contenders
for the State Championship! The Red and
Black is out to win, and looking mean!

ESEESEEEUREESESSEREEEELESIEREEI ERIS S283 ER EEE ERE

CAPTAIN PAT

SSUSEEREESEESEREEE ERIE EE EERE EEE EHTS

For the Sophs, Captain Briggs at center
Starred, making half the tackles for his
team. On the defense no one could pass
him. The whole line was invincible, and of
the 20 yards gained by the Fresh during the
game, less than 5 yards were made through
the line.

In the backfield Boggs, Ballard and Green
joined most of the 215 yards gained by the
Sophs. John Anderson, on end, deserves
mention for his long run and his work in
recovering a Fresh fumble.

For the Fresh, Baker and Williams played
games, and the punting of McMillan kept
down the Soph score.

NFLUENZA

As a preventive melt
_and inhale Vicks night
and morning. Apply a
little up nostrils before
mingling with crowds.

Captain Pat Crawford, around who Coach}:

33 “pence omanamraae= on eenemeaeana

Here and There i

Rev. Eugene Alexander, '12, has removed
from Raeford, N. C., to Salisbury, where
he has assumed the pastorate of the Second
Presbyterian. Church.

Rev. L. ‘T. Wilds, ’06, has resigned the
pastorate of the Presbyterian Church at
Lexington, N. C., to accept like work at
Hendersonvllie, N. C.

R. H. Bennett, 16, of Gastonia, N. C,,
spent the week end on the campus with his
cousin, C. F, Smith, ’26.

Rey. E. B. Thompson, 14, has moved
from Yancyville, N. C., to Winnsboro, La.

Rev. W. C. Williams, ex ’14, is Superin-
tendent of Home Missions in Tygart’s Val-
ley Presbytery and is living at present at
Elkins, W. Va.

Rev. W. D. Wolfe, ’11, has removed from
Thomas, West Virginia, to Jellico Plains,
Tenn.

Dr. J. T. Wearn, '13, Instructor in the
medical department of the University of
Pennsylvania, has recently won the Boyl-
ston Prize of $500.00 offered by Harvard
University for the best essay on some phase
of medical science. Dr. Wearn who is well
known in medical circles, received his col-
lege education at Davidson after which he
studied medicine at Harvard.

Joe Barnett, ex-’'18, formerly of Clover,
S. C., is now connected with the Citizen's
National Bank at Gastonia, N. C.

Edward McFadden White ’14, one of
Chester, S. C. most popular young men and
Miss Pauline Green of Columbia were mar-
ried March 8th in Columbia by Rev. Mark
L. Carlisle. Immediately after the wedding

they left for a honeymoon to points in
Florida.
D.

Cynical Cyrus says: “A girl that gets her
hair bobbed ought to be switched, and she
will as soon as it gets out of fashion.”

Substitutions: Sophs—Hastie for Mat-| i
thews; Alexander for McAulay; McAlpin | if
for Alexander; Brice for Anderson. Fresh: | i
Joiner for Ratchford; Rawson for Jones; #
Beall for McNair; McNairr for Beall. i

Referee: Shepherd (Davidson) ; umpire,
George (Virginia) ; head linesman, C. M.
Davis (Davidson). |

Time of Quarters—10:8:10:8.

ID.

28.

Professor in Psychology: “Now I place :
I, Horeuts #

e

ba a “Eleven.”

tT ies

Ea AMs igh

Lineup and summary :
SOPHS 12 Position FRESH 0)
Matthews...... Left End......... Baker(c) | ;
Patterson...... Left Tackle........... Neil | k
McAulay...... Left Guard....... McMillan | Ons VaroRus
Briggs(c)...... Centerarciic ccs. osc cg Cox!
Lewis.......... Right Guard ......... Smith
Summers...... Right Tackle ....Ratchford|
Anderson. ..... Right End ........ Crayton
Green.......... Quarterback ....... Williams
McLean..:.....Left Halfback ....... Jones | t#
Ballard........ Right Halfback...McMillan | 0; ATHLE
Boggs......... Fullback ........... McNair : T ES
Soph Scoring: Touchdowns, Boggs; Bal- if
lard. if
First Downs: Sophs 12; Fresh 2. / Make good as a salesnan because—

They have natural training.
They know how to think and act quickly,
They understand what it is to “fight through.”

SUSREEEUEIEETEEEEEEEEREEEB EE HEABAREERSEEEESEIIEIIEIIIIETIEIIIINEOEEOISSE IS HERREROUEREEIOE Eg IEESUMGRESEE ETERS TE estes teeta teeteen

LIBERAL CONTRACTS

