TEAR T 1) VI
UP A
TRINITY HE
FOR ABETTER DAVIDSON
Vol. XI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C,, NOVEMBER 22, ae

BACK
THE
WILDCATS

No. 10

WILDCATS SPRING SURPRISE---HOLD CAROLINA 14-3

PRESS ASSOCIATION HOLDS SEVENTH CON VEN TION

North Carolina College Journalists
Meet at Trinity to Discuss Problems -

Forty Delegates From Various College Publications of North Carolina
Assemble—Reception and Banquet Given in Honor of the Associa-
tion—Every Angle of Newspaper Work Discussed

The North Carolina Collegiate Pres Association convened Thursday night,
November 15th, at Trinity College, Durhan® N, C. The first meeting of the
convention was an informal reception. During the reception the delegates
were addressed by several members of the Trinity faculty. At the Friday
morning meeting W. N. Keener, editor of the Durham Morning Herald,
spoke on headline writing.

Holiday Plans Include

Dramatic Club Program

Three Plays to be Presented on
Saturday After Thanksgiving

After the speech the meeting was thrown
open to discussion. Such topics as the writ-
ing of paragraphics and means of securing
efficient business assistants were brought up.

On Friday night a banquet was given in
honor of the delegates by The Tombs,
honorary fraternity of Trinity. Several of
the Trinity Glee Club men furnished enter- |"
tainment both vocally and with stringed in-
struments. Professor Cannon, of Trinity,
acted as toast-master, and the president of
The Tombs, L. D. Elkins, president of the
association, and Miss Frances Cherry, made
short speeches.

The Saturday morning session was devoted
to the reports from the member publications
and speeches by two of the delegates. Miss
Frances Cherry, of Meredith College, spoke
on co-operation between the editorial staff
and the business department as essential to
every college publication. W. J. Bullock, of
Trinity, spoke on methods of securing adver-! Friday night will sce the close of the class
tising. Reports were heard from 11 news- | basketball championship series. The game
papers and five magazines. A report on the | will probably be between the Junior and Se-

The plans for the festivities to fill Thanks- |
giving week-end are rapidly nearing com- |
pletion. There will be several attractions,

plays presented by the Dramatic Club. Nearly
ing over the week-end.
Thursday, the 29th, the faculty has grant-

journey en masse to Charlotte that afternoon
to witness the Davidson-Trinity scrap.

‘work of the committee which was appointed | Niet teams, and promises to be an interesting |

last year to work on the association's short | Contest. Aiter the game there will be a
story and essay anthology, was also heard at | picture show, Harold Lloyd in “Safety Last.’
this time. The “Pine and Thistle,” of Flora The climax of the week-end festivities
Macdonald, was taken into the association, ;Comes Saturday night, when the Dramatic
It was decided to hold the spring convention | Club presents three one-act plays. These
at Elon College. A resolution thanking the | Plays were written by L. D. Elkins, W. 1
faculty, students, literary societies and pub- | Galloway and Prot. KE. J. Erwin, all mem-
lications of Trinity for their hospitality and) bers of the Dramatic Club and of the Sigma
the enpoyable entertainment which they of- Upsilon Literary Fraternity.

fered the delegates, were adopted by the as-| The first play, Out 0° Goodness, is a
sociation. The eonvention was then ad-. cynical tragi-comedy, written by Liston D.
journed, Elkins. The cast for this play is as follows:
The officers of the North Carolina Col-| Tommy Bothwell, a novelist----M. C. Stith
(Continued from page 3) | George France, an explorer_--.W. H. Fitts

stent Sat ere EEC TE Bes Ft ae ROTO a TOS (fp (jh) 75;
— Muggs LBurelars Sees S.F. Bryant

I ll ss T Charlie If : ) H. Austin
nterco egiate eam | McCrary, an officer-__----_2__ S. W. Brown
To Debate Next Month W. F. Galloway is the author of the sec-

(Continued from page 3)

Stith and Hollingsworth Selected to

|Mother Chapter Hostess | Davidson Exhibits Powerful Offense
But Tar Heel Players Swamp Light Line

-ToGamma Sigma Epsilon |

| National Chemical Fraternity Or-
| ganized at Davidson |
|

ADOPT CONSERVATIVE
POLICY

Chapters Have Been Granted to |
Five Ranking Colleges |
On November 16th Davidson College had |
the peculiar privilege of opening her doors
tg Gamma Sigma Epsilon, honorary chemical |
fraternity of national range, in its first an-
nual convention, Alpha Alpha ieee
| mother the fraternity, was host to the
visiting chemists, who came from three states
—Maryland, Virginia, and North Carolina,
Organized in 1919 by students of Davidson
| College, under the leadership of Dr. H. B.;
| Arbuckle, Gamma Sigma Epsilon has, en- |
|joyed a period of steady but conservative
Active chapters
cated at Johns Hopkins University, Univer-
isity of Florida, North Carolina State Col- |

of

expansion. are now. lo-

burn). All but two of these were repre-

{good report of work accomplished,

|
| ‘The convention opened on Friday after

chapter. An address of weleome was deliv- |
Fered by the presiding officer, Dr. H. B. Ar-
‘buckle, head of the department of Chemistry
at Davidson. The reply was given by H. 1. |
! Jones, Auburn. Reports of the
chapters were received and discussed, pleas-
ing indication that the fraternity
splendid work in all of its chapters. i

of various

is doing

Some time was taken up in revising the |
constitution and ritual, and plans were laid
jfor the publication, in the near future, of a
magazine to be “The A
conservative policy of expansion was main-
tained, unfavorable action being taken upon
the petitions of several institutions for char-
A model initiation cerémony was pre-
sented by the home chapter in a very effi- |
cient: manner,

known as Ray.”

ters.

As officers for the ensuing year the fol-
lowing were elected: Dr. H. B. Arbuckle,
of Davidson Sere grand chancellor; Dr.
ey Uy (C f Johns Hopkins University,
worthy grand alchemist ; H. I. Jones, of Au-
burn, grand recorder; O. J. Thies, Jr.
Davidson, grand keeper of the cult; M.

(Continued on page 8)

100d, 0

of

R.

| that men might be better served.

Bonner Paves Way for University’s ity’s Victory—Hendrix eid Wells Circle
Carolina’s End for Long Gains—Davidson’s Forward Passing
Attack Succeeds—Hunt Kicks Placement for Wildcat Score

Chapel Hill, Nov. 17
Davidson Wildcats swept the 1
into the C
gave them a 3 point lead.

Unleashing a driving attack in the first period, the
Far Heels off their feet
‘arolina camp when Popsy Hunt's place-kick from the 20-yard line
Carolina finally won,

and threw a real scare

14-3, but the Red and Black

Machine exhibited a versatility of attack and perfection.of teamwork which

kept the C

Hillhouse*Makes Fine
Address Before Y.M.C. A.

Hillhouse Discusses Attitude of Col-
lege Graduates Toward World
Problems

president of the student
C. A, last: Sunday

Albert Hillhouse,
body, spoke to the Y. M.

chief among which will be the three one-act |ege, and Alabama Polytechnic Institute (Au-| cyening, taking as his theme the question,
‘What Shall Our
all of the social organizations are planning to | Sented by delegates at the conyention, and! ye said that-after the many noted speakers
entertain many guests at house parties last- Jone of the unrepresented chapters sent in heard at Davidson this year, he would not

Attitude Be After College?

Instead he
the main

attempt to add any new thought,

gave a brief resume of some of

ed a holiday, and the student body will | noon at 2:30 o'clock, in the hall of the local | points stressed by speakers here, and with

this as a bisis, pointed out the conditions that
will confront college men and what their at
titude should be toward those conditions.

He pointed to Livingstone in Africa, whose

motto was “Anywhere if only it be onward” ;

}to other pioneers in work for the betterment
fof humanity; to martyrs who lived and died

He then
showed briefly some of the evil conditions of
the “The world is torn after
a devastating war. It is restless and doubt

world today.

jful and tired of the old and not sure of the

The churches of Europe are hollow
He pointed

j ne Ww.

land they are being cast aside.’

to economic and sanitary evils the world
over, “And yet we see,” he said, “in so many
cases, no response to these needs by the
church. So very few of the followers of
Christ are interested in social conditions, and
as a result we find the slums of our cities
almost within sight of big churches. We are

too much concerned with non-essentials
dogma, creed, ritual—and too little concerned
with men in their need and want.

“The main cause of the inadequate service

(Continued on page 6)

|
Meet Washington and Lee
Debaters | WATCH OUT, TRINITY!
_ el Ist Q. 2nd Q. 3rd Q.

M. C. Stith and A. H. Hollingsworth, with | DC Car DC Car DC Car
D. B. Walthall as alternate and manager, | laa: iYotang Dacia 5 : 5 5 5)
COMPOSE the Davidson Intercollegiate De-' First Downs on Penalties -_- i) oO oO I I
bating Team, which will meet Washington Motalsbirst Downs) e2--2-sas-eeee 5 I 2 6 3
and Lee, in Shearer Hall, Friday, December | Number of Plays Run ~--------__-- 21 12 15 17 16
14th | Forward Passes Attempted - 4 () 4 ) 2
sere | Forward Passes Completed 2 CG) 2 te) I
These men were elected from a group cf | Forward Passes Intercepted 1 oO (9) a)
seven etnrants in the: preliminaries held in | Sous Gained En pense cee o 25 2 8
: Bee si : sround Gaine nd Runs -- 12 5 22 5
My Hall, Wednesday night, November 14th. | Ground Gained Off Tackle __ 8 25 19 6
Warren Cox presided and Professors Ar- | Ground Gained Over Line -----__- 0 3 22 32
buckle, Currie, Lingle, Brown and Dendy Ground Lost from Scrimmage ---. 2 2 4 0 oO
acted as a board of judges. Net Gain from Scrimmage -------- 118 18 54 63 51
F ; s ; Renaltie¢si ase te ease oe eee 15 30 20 () (0)
The question on which the teams will clash Fumbles --_- oO oO oO () I
is: “Resolved, That the present immigration Opponents’ Fumbles Recovered --_ 0 (0) o- (0) (0)
law should be re-enacted.” The law, as it pee sot hie. ois wase--n-----<- I Fe o) es 0
ase : tl = Of Seisses seas - 50 (0) (0) 0 (a)
is in force today states that the number of | Average Length of Kick-offs _____ 50 50 0 50 o
immigrants: of any nationality admitted to Return Kick-offs _-____-______ Paty, 25 5 () 18
the United States each: fiscal year shall uct seciage Return of Kick-offs ----_ 17 2 5 oO 18
ie Number of Punts ---------__-- 3 2 I 2
eee dana ane Me ALE ee oS Length Punts _-____--__ 108 gI ¥/ 76,
nationality in the United. ates ac~ Average Length Punts 36 46 17 3B
cording to the census of 1910. Davidson wii! Return Punts ) ) 0 0
uphold the negative side -of the query. Average Return Punts --------_-- a 0 o o Y

Since the selection of the team, the. de- Total unpack desks Gehan 25 5 Pst 3 j

baters have been hard at work on the query, ce 7 as 59 3
(Continued on page 6)

4th Q Total
DC Car ‘DC Car
5 2 2 11 13
oO 0) oO I I
5 2 2 12 14
17 13 17 65 63
I 3 I 13 2
(0) 2 oO 7 oO
10) I 10) I I
(0) 30 (0) 100 )
38 oO 27 51 99
43 II 24 71 94
13 8 6 56 4I
i) II (0) 17 2
94 38 57 261 232
20 oO 20 35 70
I oO 10) I I
I oO oO (0) I
I (0) I I 4
55 0) 50 50 205
55 0 50 50 5!
(0) 12 (0) 52 25
(0) 12 Co) 13 25
2 4 3 9 9
73 148 95 352-293
37 37 32 39 “Sy 33
8 10 18 22 26
4 3 5 2 3
8 22 18 74 51
02 60 75 335, 283

Carolina team on the defensive through the major part of the game.

It was a case of too much Bonner, After
the Wildeats had taken the lead at the close
of the first: period, Blanton kicked off to
Davidson. For the first time during the
game, the Tar Heels held, and Tlunt punted
to their 32 yard line. Then the Tar Heels
started their offensive, and with Bonner and
Devin carrying the ball they marched down
the field 68 yards on 17 ‘plays to a touch-
McDonald carrying the ball over
the score.

Again in the third period Carolina received
a punt in midfield, Rabbit Bonner made 10
yards around right end, and then cireled the
other end for 21 yards. The quarter ended
with the ball on the 3-yard dine and on the
fourth down Bonner threw himself over the
pile of forwards for a touchdown, MeDon-
old drop-kicked both extra points.

The Wildeats gained more than
the Fetzer eleven and made 12 first downs to
Carolina's 14, but the long arm of Fate in-
terposed itselfand vietory was snatched from
the Presbyterians. Early in the game came
the first break. The Red and Black Machine
had carried the ball 50 yards to the 20-yard
Hendrix

down, for

yardage

On the next play,
S-yard line, but Da-
holding and the
the 37-yard line.

intercepted a

line on 6 plays.
hall to the
vidson was penalized tor
ball was put in’ play
Then -Melyer
scoring chance was gone,

carried the

on
pass and one

Carolina was forced to punt and Hendrix
returned to the 40-yard line, Aiter an inter-
change of Davidson got the ball on
her own 37-yard line. Two line plays gained
3 yards and then Hendrix, aided by perfect

Hen-

punts

interference, made 18 yards oyer tackle.

(Continued on page 4)

Glee Club Schedules
Friday Night Musicale

Wildcat Gongiters Perform at Home
Before Starting on Southern
Trip

The song-birds of Davidson, already popu-
lar with the music lovers of the state of
North Carolina, will appear before the stu-
dents of the college and as many townspeople
as Shearer Hall can accommodate Friday
night. The performance will begin promptly
at 7:30 o'clock, according to C,. Victor
Brown, manager of the club.

The local performance will precede the
Southern trip through North Carolina, South
Carolina and Georgia, which will begin De-
cember 3rd. The club has appeared in Hunt-
ersville, Shelby and Salisbury to date, and
every day Manager Brown receives requests
from every quarter of the state and the
South asking for engagement contracts. It
is a general concession that the Glee Club
this year, under the leadership of Ted Jones,
and under the proficient tutelage of Mrs.
Coral Baker, is the best musical organization
ever developed at Davidson. It bids fair to
become one of the most popular. college clubs
in-the entire South.

The choruses, trained by Mrs. Baker, may

(Continued on page 5)
