—— ania aaa aia co — :
i Oe ECT ncn ol | On Your Way Through

DIXIE DOPE.

The past week witnessed a lull in basket-|'

ball circles as a necessary preparation for the
climax of the season that comes with the
S. I. A. A.-S. I. C. Tournament in Atlanta
this week. By the time The Davidsonian
comes from press, light will have been
thrown on who's who in cage circles, but on
the basis of pre-tournament records several
teams can be counted on to land near the
top.

The Atlanta Journal is backing Georgia
Tech, Vanderbilt, Georgia and Mississippi
A. &” M. to show the way for the other
clubs. Maybe they are right, but Chatta-
nooga, North Carolina, Alabama and Ten-
nessee look as good, ¢f not better. Chatta-
nooga has lost only two games to date—
Vandy and Wabash, and have beaten Ten-
nessee, who had a record of twelve victories
in a row. & This University of Tennessee
crew have victories over Kentucky, Georgia,
Center and Georgetown, and look good for
a round or two at least. Vandy completes
the trio of great Tenessee teams. They
have cleaned up everything in sight. . With
Chattanooga, Vandy and the University of
Tennessee ifi the tournament it looks like
that State has about the best chance to carry
off the title.

North Carolina, last year’s Southern
champions and already South Atlantic cham-
pions for this season, will enter the only
undefeated team in the tournament. Their
first opponent, Mississippi, ought not to offer
any serious opposition.

North Carolina nailed down the State
championship when she captured two games
from N. C. State. The first meeting resulted

( Continued on page 3)

30000

Central Cafeterig,
“On the Square”

Entrance Next to
United Cigar Store
on Trade and Tryon

be TT TT TT TTT TT yy |
oct AP ome, —aeeerendiin "
“EQUIPMENT for EVERY SPORT”

em Se. es

BASE#BALL

SHOES GLOVES MITTS
BATS

We sell the

Spalding
Harry C. Lee
Wright & Ditson

RACKETS

Also the
Dayton Steel Racket

We Restring Rackets
Our Davidson Agency is
THE COMMISSARY
Myers Hardware and
_ Sporting Goods Co

: A. L, FAUL, Mgr.
, Trade St. CHARLOTTE, N. C,

ILLS
ASKRET
ALL
ULL

We'll have a great season—next year.

Here's to J. G. Frazier—a ‘wonderful
player and a good sport. He must have been
born with a basket-ball in his hands.

Just maybe Pat Crawford didn’t strew
his nastiness down in his home State. Forty
points in two games! Whew! he must have
used a machine gun.

Just having taken out a life insurance
policy and needing the sheckles, we bravely
offer this as our all-State basket-ball team
for 1923,

: FIRST TEAM
Forward—Simpson (Trinity).
Forward—J. G, Frazier (Guilford).
Center—Carmichael (Carolina).
Guard—Crawford (Davidson).
Guard—McDonald (Carolina).

SECOND TEAM

Forward—Green (Carolina).

Forward—Stringfield (Wake Forest).

Center—Mauze (Davidson).

Guard—Mahler (Carolina).

Guard—Crute (Trinity).

Pat Crawford, the best basket-ball player
at Davidson since the days of Dutch Hen-
geveld, will play his last court game Satur-
day night. With the exception of the Char-
lotte “Y” game, which he missed on account
of an operation, Pat has played every second
of every game for the last two years.
Here’s hoping he winds up his basket-ball
career in a blaze of glory. “Top ’em in their
teeth,” Pat.

“Girls Will Start Wearing Corsets
Again”—Headline. Gosh, Mathilda, you
don’t know how much that helps. I’ll make
more room in the street cars. Giddap, Jeho-
aphat! :

And it came to pass that Ted Jones was
born in 1899. Yes, but “it’s too late now”
for anything to be done about it.

Sixteen starts with nine victories—that’s
Davidson.
Fourteen: starts without a wrong detour—

that’s Carolina,

Twenty-one starts without a blow-out—

| that’s a—lie.

It is rumored that everyone will get an
absence from church.

It’s an ill wind that blows nobody good.
At last we can walk from Georgia to Rumple
without dodging a bag of water at every
step. Shades of Chink Wilkinson, Doggett,
etc.! The old third floor Watts gang is
gone forever!

Do you remember way back when—Dan
McGeachy use to stand in the north wing
of Chambers and yell: “L-i-g-h-t-s—i-n—
C-h-a-m-b-e-r-s.” Them days is gone for-
ever,

T).

DOCTOR CLARK TO LEAD
LIFE WORK CONFERENCE

The speaker for the Life Work Confer-
ence this spring will be Dr. Nelson Clark, of
Columbia Theological Seminary. The .con-
ference will extend from the 14th through
the 17th of March and in addition to the
regular evening services Doctor Clark will
conduct the chapel exercises each morning,
Doctor Clark is one of the leading ministers
on the Southern church, he is deeply inter-
ested in young men and has always kept in
close touch with them. His messages will
be of vital interest to everyone.

The point that he will stress in his talks
is Christian service. The purpose of this
[conference is not to lead men into the min-
istry but to help them to decide what their
life work shall be and how to make it count
for the most for Christ. It is also the
hope of the Y. M. C. A. that at this time
the men among us who have not yet become
members of the church may be led to take
this step-

Doctor Clark will be available at all times
for those who wish to discuss with him any
Problem or problems which may be con-

fronting them.

NICHES IN THE WILDCAT} |
HALL OF FAME

No. 9—Henry McFadden Spann,
Ex-’20 |

|
|
{

D** Football
D* Baseball |
Henry McFadden Spann, of Sumter, S. C.,

will always be remembered in Davidson foot-!

ball annals because of the part he played in
the wonder season of 1917. The year before
with Keesler ‘and Lawson alternating at
quarter, Henry did not have a chance to
break into the line-up but with their depart-
ure Spann stepped into their vacant shoes
and called signals for the Wildcats during
the greatest season of their history.

Henry showed his ability from the first of
the season and his wonderful aerial wizardry
led Coach Fetzer’s machine to a decisive 21-
7 victory over Auburn, In commenting on
his work in that game, the greatest dope up-
set, of the season, ‘The Atlanta Journal says:
“If Spann had had a gun his aeril drives |
could not have been more accurate. His
tackling also deserves mention.” The Spann
to King threat was the surest scoring play
the Red and Black eleven used. ‘Time after
time Spann would hurl the pigskin for down
the field into the waiting arms of King, who
would race across the last white line for a
touchdown, It was this combination which
carried the ball across the Golden Tornado’s
goal line for the only touchdown of the
season, |

The following year the football season was |
cut owing to the S. A. T. C., but it was
still. Henry Spann who led the Wildcats to
a victery over their ancient rivals Carolina.
In 1919 Spann was the man about whom
Coach Crayton built his offense and as cap-
tain of the team he did wonders. After a
mediocre season the Wildcats woke up in
the Thanksgiving contest and under his gen-
eralship gained a sweeping 41-14 decision
over Furman. Tor the last time Henry led
the fighting Red team to Victory on the
gridiron.

Spann played centerfield on the baseball
nine and in his. senior year in addition to
being captain of the football team and presi-
dent of the athletic association he was |
elected captain of the baseball team. He
left. college, however, before the season
opened and returned to his home in Sumter
where he has taken over his father’s busi-
ness,

D:

WRESTLERS LOSE TO
TRINITY AND CAROLINA

The old jinx is still-on the job. The Da-
vidson grapplers returned Friday from an
invasion of ‘Trinity and Carolina with the
praise of good fighting, but not of victory
trailing them.

Trinity’s better coached team defeated the
Davidson matmen 28 to 3, but not without
exerting themselves, for Davidson’s men)
fought subbornly and almost through the
nine-minute period in several matches. At!
Carolina, Davidson started off in the lead, |
winning the first two matches on time but,
Carolina came in strong on the middle-|
weights and overcame the lead, piling up a
score that was not affected by Lindamood’s |
time victory over Poindexter in the un-|
limited weight. The final score was Carolina |
16, Davidson 9,

At Trinity, Selser of Davidson started |
Hardaway, of Trinity, in the opening match, |
both men working defensive play. When}
Selser missed his try to throw, the men went
to the mat on a dog fall, but Hardaway |
worked to advantage and pinned Selser about
forty seconds before time. Trinity 5, Da-|
vidson 0,

Cromartie, for Davidson, then wrestled |
Daniel of Trinity in the 129-pound class for |
the full nine-minute period. At the start!
Cromartie threw Daniel twice, but was un- |
able’ to pin his shoulders. Daniel broke |
Cromartie’s holds and managed to stay on}
top of Cromartie for time, winning by eight |
seconds. Trinity 8, Davidson.

Cochran started strong for Davidson
against May’ of Trinity, in the 139-pound
class, but May played strong defensive and
Stepped in. to pin Cochran in short time.
Trinity 13, Davidson 0.

Kimsey started for Davidson against Mc-
Clellan, of Trinity, in the 149-pound class,
with the high hope of breaking Trinity's win-
ning streak. Kimsey played a conservative
defense, taking advantage of McClellan’s
attempts to throw and tied McClellan on
points: in the first period. In the three-min-
ute periods, Kimsey was able to stay on Mc-

/onds of the bout.

Clellan but could not be ee winning on

long time. ©

t

A Pair of Shoes

On your way through the shoes you are now
@ wearing, just notice this:

If they fit well at just three spots—the heel, the
instep and the toes—they will not look old for a

If they do not fit well there, they will break down
and look old in a short time.

Try Hendrix Shoes next time.
they fit and how long they last.

J. M. HENDRIX & CO. |

“THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES”

GREENSBORO, UN. C.

See how well

xXx

We

time after fifteen minutes of wrestling.
‘This was Davidson’s only score—all credit
to Pat, Davidson’s fighting Irishman, for
his excellent work, Trinity 13, Davidson 3.

Patterson, of Davidson, entered against
Midgett, Trinity’s wonder wrestler, in the
162-pound class. Patterson made it merry
for Midget at the start but Midget’s better
knowledge of the art gave him the advantage
and Patterson was pinned after about four
minutes wrestling. ‘Trinity 18, Davidson 3.

White, of Davidson, lost to Mattheson, of
‘I'rinity, after’ about five minutes of good
wrestling on the part of both. Mattheson
was at the limit of the 179-pound class
weight and outweighed White about eleven
pounds. Mattheson’s better knowledge of
the art enabled him to pin White for another
five points. Trinity 23, Davidson 3.

Midget, after resting through the 179-
pound match, entered again for Trinity
against Lindamood, Davidson’s heavyweight.
Lindamood showed style at the start, but
gave way to excitement and bewilderment
and was pinned after three and one-half
minutes of wrestling. Final score: ‘Trinity
28, Davidson 3.

At Carolina, Selser, of Davidson, started
against Schwartz, of Carolina, in the 119-
pound class. Selser won‘on time after fif-
teen minutes of wrestling. On account of
small mats, Selser lost his advantage several
times on account of going off the mat. Da-
vidson 3, Carolina 0.

In 129-pound class, Cromartie, Davidson's
captain, wrestled Hagan, of Carolina, to a
decision on time in the first nine-minute
period. Cromartie outclassed Hagan at all
times, but was not able to pin him on ac-
count of their going off the mats. Davidson
6, Carolina 0.

Cochran, for Davidson, in the 139-pound
class, wrestled Vick, of Carolina, from the
start in the next match and had about two
minutes time on him until the last few sec-
Here in an effort to pin
| Vick with a body scissors and head lock,
Vick turned him and rolling into a crab
| hold, pinning Cochran’s shoulders for Caro-
| lina’s first score. Davidson 6, Carolina 5.

Kimsey, of Davidson, and Mattheson, of
Carolina, wrestled to a tie in the first nine-
minute period of the next match—149-pound
‘class. Mattheson won over Kimsey in the
three-minute period, with a ten-second time
advantage. Davidson 6, Carolina 8.

In the 162-pound class, Patterson, of Da-

| vidson, met Waters, one of Carolina’s best

men, After six minutes, thirty seconds of
hard wrestling, Waters was able to pin Pat-
terson with a head chancery and half Nelson.
Davidson 6, Carolina 13.

Davidson entered White against Burke, of
Carolina, in the 179-pound class. No ad-
vantage was shown by either in the first
nine-minute period, but Burke, by a strong
comeback, threw White after one minute,
twenty seconds of the first three-minute
period. Burke held this advantage for the
rest of the extra periods and won on points.
Davidson 6, Carolina 16.

he unlimited class furnished the best
hout of the evening when Lindamood, Da-
vidson’s heavyweight, met Poindexter, the
Carolina captain. Lindamood showed his
superiority throughout the bout, worrying
Poindexter considerably, but holding every
advantage. After nine minutes of wrestling,
I,indamood won on time. Final score: Da-
vidson 9, Carolina 16.

Davidson handled Trinity about as well as
she has been handled this year, and held
Carolina ‘to the closest score, outside of
her defeat by Trinity. Carolina has
lost to Trinity 23 to 8, and Guilford has
lost to Trinity 30 to 3 and to Carolina 35
to 0. Davidson’s showing was better than
the scores indicate. It would seem that
Davidson held the advantage in each bout
until the Red and Black matman was pinned
or time called.

Captain Cromartie’s grapplers meet South
Carolina at Davidson on Friday, March 2,
and meet V. M. I. at Lexington, March 9.
Profiting by what was learend in the school
of experience, Davidson’s matmen should
be able to give a creditable account of them-
selves in the remaining. meets.

TD.

QUEENS CHORAL CLUB
TO PRESENT PLAY HERE

On March 12, Davidson is to hear another
product of Queens College talent. Last
spring the Queens Choral Club brought their
play to Davidson and presented it, and this
time their entertainment will be an operetta.

The cast of the play includes forty
“queens,” and besides the music, many
laughs are interwoven throughout the play.
No effort has been spared to make the pre-
sentation perfect in every way and the cos-
tumes are elaborate.

The staff of the Queens annual is foster-
ing the playlet and all profits will go to make
a better edition this year.

Athletes Make Good As Salesmen

~~ BECAUSE—
They have the natural

A. W. McAlister, President

They know how to think aa act quickly.
They understand what it is to “fight through.”

Some of this Company's most successful representa-
tives learned their first lessons on the gridiron and diamond.
Our Agents’ Training School Did the Rest.

LIBERAL CONTRACTS

SOUTHERN LIFE AND TRUST COMPANY
Greensboro, N. C.

“The Multiple Line Company’,
Capital $1,000,000.00

CHOICE TERRITORY

H. B. Gunter, Agency Mgr.

