THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 8, 1923

9:

BOGGY BRAES ARE NOW
BEAUTIFUL BOULEVARDS

Those who are Juniors and Seniors in
this old school, so dear to the hears of all
students and alumni find it very easy indeed
to rehearse in their minds the days when they
were beginning their college career. They
came here from most all quarters of the
globe and contemplated settling down toa life
of academic ease for four years, following
Just such pursuits as most appealed to them.
But many of those young lads, freshmen in-
deed, very carly became aware of the fact
that a life of confinement within the dormi-

tories and within the beautiful little town |
of Davidson was a bit more than they had |
dreamed of. Visions of adventure began
early to encroach upon their quiet slumbers
and in their dreams they could see them- |
selves in other towns, probably Charlotte or
Statesville. Attractions are many in both |
these towns nestled in the quietude of the!
North Carolina Piedmont _ hills. Surely
there are attractions in each of these towns.
Is there not a Meyers Park, and a most
charming little castle of Queens in the
Queen city, and is there not a domicile of
fair damsels so called for the highest peak
of the east side of that mighty river divid-
ing the United States into halves, in that
village, the king of Iredell ?

Thesé young boys dreamed of such places
at night and when they awaked they deter-
mined to make their dreams come true. So}
off they started, hoping to arrive at these
homes of their lady love. On they trodded
through the mud and slick clay for indeed |
it had been raining and they almost mired up |
to their knees. |

“Tis bad,” said one, “That we must un- |
dergo such unthought of difficulties to be
able to see her whom we love.”

“True you are, my pal,” proclaimed the
other, “Surely some day there shall be a
great highway o'er this territory, across
which we are attempting to travel. It seems
as though the Highway Commission should
bear in mind the fact that much traffic pass-
es this way and give us a fine macadam
road.”

That two years ago. These two
Freshmen plodding their way to Mooresville,
or Statesville, or Charlotte saw visions of a
great highway and now they Seg their visions
a reality. Today if one wishes to visit any
of these places he need not go by way of
Concord, Baettys Ford, Lincolnton, or other
out of the way places but can mount the
highway and it is only a matter of a few
minutes till the distance is in the rear, One
no longer sees Freshmen stuck up to their
knees in the mud, nor does one see horses
sunk in the mud raising their heads upward
struggling for breath, nor are Fords aband-

oned by their owners because of terrible
‘roads.

Was

“The Highway Comission did give us a
highway and it is ours,” are the words of a
Sreat Davidsonian,

c
y

PRESS ASSOCIATION TO PUB-
LISH SHORT STORIES

The short-story committee of the
North Carolina Collegiate Press Associa-
tion is now busy formulating plans for
the stories that are to compose the

larger part of the Anthology of North
Carolina.

This volume will contain approximate-
ly one hundred and fifty pages of read-
ing matter of ten or twelve of the best
short stories submitted from the state.

This plan was first adopted last spring
at the meeting of the Press Association
and at present it is hoped that the An-
thology will be off the press by April.
At this time specifications for bids are
being sent to publishers and the book will
go to press when these details
settled.

This new phase of literary work should
promote State-wide interest in Short-
Story writing. Any bona fide member of
a North Carolina College may submit
one or more short stories not to exceed
six thousand words in length. Randolph
Jones is corresponding with the editors
of various college publications through-
out the State and each college in the
State is expected to turn in at least one
story. All stories must be turned in by
December 15th to the editors of the
respective college magazines. To stim-
ulate interest a prize of $50 will be
awarded for the best story according to
the decision of the judges.

The committee expects to publish ap-
proximately a thousand copies of the
Anthology and the success ‘of this un-
dertaking will-mark a new phase of the

are

| storm, so that the very foundations of the

| beloved Indian song, the song of a brave of

| Waters of Minnetonka to their death, thus

| reading, The Party, written by Paul Law-

State collegiate work in literary lines.

Biddle Quintet Gives Musical Program
Of Negro Spirituals and Old Melodies

Readings and Plantation Songs De|
light Large Audience

The musical program rendered in Shearer |
Hall by Johnson C. Smith University Quin- }
tet Friday evening November second, proved |
to be the rarest treat of the season, The |
superb and soulful interpretation of the time
honored Negro Spirituals and melodies, with |
Indian songs and classical selections gener- |
ously interspersed, stirred the audience in}
Shearer Hail and got closer to the hearts |
of the leaders than anything has in many |
a day. |
Oh Rocks Don't Fall On Me, the first
number on the program, took the house by !

old building shook with the prolonged ap-
plause, but when the next number was well
under way, Couldn't Hear Nobody Pray,
that weird, old-time, heart-stirring, soul-
inspiring spiritual, the entire audience was
carried back to plantation days, and it is
reported that quite a few got religion, After
this followed the favorite, Kentucky Babe,
and ane that was new to most of the au-
dience, De Old -trk's A-Moverin,

By The Waters of Minnetonka, the well-

the Sun tribe and a maid of the Moon tribe,
which they sang as they walked out into the

to escape separate deaths, was beautifully
sung as a solo. After the little tenor had
resumed his place, the quintet let us know.
with no uncertain sound that they were
“Walkin? In De Light.”

Following this came a treat which was
as novel and appealing as it was new to the
audience. /land Me Down A Silver Trum-
pet, Gabriel! The audience could scarcely
keep from joining in the refrain:

Hand it down,

Throw it down,

Any way to git it down, Gabriel!

The next delight that was in store was a

rence Dunbar, the great negro poct, and read
by Mr. Bryan, who had till then taken rather
a back seat. The story was vividly and gra-
phically told and so heartily applauded that
Little Gal was given also before the reader
could sit down,

After this breathing spell the quintet came
back strong in the second half with the Bill
of Fare making the whole audience famish
with hunger.

One of the most popular numbers on the
program, judging from the number of en-
cores is occasioned, was the piano solo, Far
departed form the spirit of the old spirituals
as was the jazz which the pianoist played, it
still possessed something in common with
them, and was undoubtedly exceedingly well
appreciated. It is doubtful if the old piano
used every morning in chapel, ever was led
on such a dance before.

Who Will Be A Witness? Following
Old Black Joe, and a solo Beloved It Is
Morn, occasioned unbounded delight and
enthusiasm, as it always has. Following this
was another enjoyable favorite, Ezekiel Saw
De Wheel, ane as the quintet sang the audi-
ence were quite sure that ‘way up in the
middle of the air,” they could see the wheel
too, and a wheel within the wheel.

After another most vivid reading from
Kipling, and Lead Kindly Light, the quintet
sang in conclusion, Swing Low Sweet Char-
tot, perhaps the best known of all negro
spirituals, but at the same time the best be-
loved of them all.

Quite a few very interesting books have
been added to the Library recently. Among
these are some of the best recent novels and
a number of volumes of delightful essays
and sketches. A book which defies classifi-
cation is Woodrow Wilson and World Set-
tlement, by Ray Stannard Baker. Mr. Baker
is especially able to deal with this subject,
as he sorted and classified President Wil-
son's notes and correspondence after his re-
turn from Versailles.

Among the novels added, the Covered
Kagon, by Emerson Hough, and The
Guest, by Pio Baroja, are among the best.
The former is a delightful romance of
Pioneer days, while the latter is a story of
life in Madrid by Spain’s greatest novelist.
Contemporary Spanish Dramatists, a trans-
lation of modern plays by noted Spanish
writers, is a book that will be useful and
interesting to anyone studying the modern
drama.

The Tocsin of Revolt is a volume of es-
says in which are gathered together the re-
cent writings of Brander Matthews on pres-
ent-day literature and social discussions.
American Nights Entertainment, by Grant
Overton, contains sketches of the entertain-
ing writers of modern America. Great Men

ALLEN HURD NEW HEAD
OF REPORTERS’ OR-
GANIZATION

At the last meeting of the Report-
ers Club held on the night of Nov. 2,
Allan Hurd was elected President.
Hurd succeeds D. B. Walthall, who
had to resign due to an excess of out-
side work. Walthall had served since
last year and has filled the office ad-
mirably,

The newly elected
man who
prominent
Davidson,

President is a
has for a long time been
in journalistic work | at
At present he holds the
office of Business Manager of the
Magazine in addition to his work in
the service department of the David-
sonian, He is a man whom the en-
tire Reporters Club is looking to keep
up the high grade work of that. or-
ganization.

He is a recently elected member of
Delta Pi Kappa journalistic frater-
nity.

Dwight Hillis, is a very interesting series of

essays about the lives of great men. Among

those mentioned are Dante, Milton, William

the Silent, and John Wesley.

FIVE NEW BOOKS ADDED TO
LIBRARY SHELVES

The following books have recently been
added to the college library:

1. The Behavior of Crowds—By Everett
Dean Martin. In this book the author takes
one behind the scenes and shows the crowds
in the drama—or comedy of life. With
ruthless candor, absolute impartiality and
humor, he examines humanity wherever he
finds it massed. In other words, it is an
X-ray of the mass mind.

2. Nature In- American Literature—By
Norman Foerster. The author here gives an
able study of nine prominent American

writers, with particular reference to the love
and knowledge of nature displayed in their
work. He analyzes the work of the poets,
Bryant, Whittier, Lowell, Whitman, and
Lanier, and of the prose writers, Emerson,
Thoreau, John Muir, and John Burroughs,
and also includes a keen discussion of the
character and. philosophy of cach of the
writers under consideration.

3. French Literature During the Last
Half Century—By J. W. Cunliffe and Pierre
de Bacourt. To all those interested in con-
temporary literature.this volume, written by
two Columbia professors who have first-hand
information about modern French life and
thought, affords help and guidance not to be
obtained in any other book. .

4. Americans—By Stuart P. Sherman. The
author shows a realization of the perversions
that make nationalism maleficent and much
of American civilization a grotesque and
hideous sham. But he shows, too that there
is another America, another nationalism—
the spirit of the essential America as the
clear-eyed. among our pocts and statesmen
have seen her.

5. The Enjoyment of Architecture—By
Talbot F. Hamilton. Mr. Hamilton has vital-
ized his subject with his own enthusiasm, and
introduced architecture as a living art. This
book is of considerable practical value in
that it will help one to understand why a
building is beautiful or where it is lacking,
and make one acquainted with the elements
and underlying principles of all the architec-
ture seen.

VOLUNTEERS DISCUSS ALL
PHASES OF PERSONAL WORK
The Student Volunteer Band held a

well attended meeting in Shearer Hall

Sunday night immediately after the Y.

M. C. A. service. A. C, Slaymaker lead

the, meeting,;the topic of which was:

Personal Work. The scripture lesson

was taken from I Timothy 2.

Three interesting and appealing talks
were given. In the first of these, Why
We Should Do Personal Work, T. C.
Barr emphasized the fact that above all
it is Christ’s will that all of his follow-
ers do personal work. In the second, A.
P. Hudgins, speaking on How Can We
Do Personal Work?—showed that we
prove ourselves friends of those in need
of a Saviour, and lead them to Christ.
In the third talk on, With Whom Should
We Do Personal Work, F. A. Hopkins
said that every class of people who does
not believe in Christ as their own per-
sonal Saviour should be approached by

Christians in an earnest effort to lead

them to the one true God.
After these talks A. P. Hudgins pre-

as Prophets of a New Era, by Newell

sided over a short business meeting.

BIBLE CLASSES CONSIDER
COLLEGE EXPENSE
ACCOUNTS
The subject discussed in the Bible

classes last Sunday morning was An Ex-
pense Account. It was shown that every
one has a certain amount instrusted to
him and that he is to spend it wisely and
not bury it as was the talent. The
trust fund that every college student has,
is used as he sees fit. In college there
are numerous calls for money. There
are the fixed necessary expenses andthe
incidental necessary ones both of which
are unavoidable. Under these two heads
come tuition, board, books, campus tax
other fees, all of which are necessary.
There are two other kinds of expenses,
however, that are not necessary, namely,
the fixed desirable expenses and luxuries.
Moving pictures, lyeeums and the Rise
are things for which a great mafy stu-
dents spend money that is not absolutely |
essential, |

It cannot be said, however, that lux-}
uries to a limited amount are injurious |
to a fellow in college or anywhere else.
Christ himself was not opposed to lux-!
When He was crucified, the gar- |
ment He wore was so valuable that it!
was not destroyed as was generally the}
case. Also the bathing of Christ's feet
with the expensive ointment showed that |
He was not opposed to luxuries but that}
He did not want man to be a servant to}
money.

uries,

|
What a student spends his money on is |
a good index to his character, it was |
pointed out. If he has money he should
spend it on something permanent and)
worthwhile. Although a student should)
not be extravagant, he should not be|
penurious. No man has a right to hoard |
or squander his money, To be stingy
with money is like the burying of the}
talent. Tt was further shown that the|
budget and the expense account are good
things to practice in college because |
habits formed in college are to
stick with a fellow.

sure
|
BILL HESTON’S CONDITION

IS GREATLY IMPROVED

All the students are interested in
knowing that Bill Heston is on the road
to health again. Quoting from the Char-
lotte News of Sunday: “The condition of
William Heston, member of the Senior
class of Davidson College, who was rush-
ed to a local hospital last week on ac-
count of serious illness, is somewhat im-
proved. Mr. Heston is one of the most
popular men on the Davidson campus
and he has many friends in Charlotte.
His home is in Atlanta.”

Bill was rushed away to Charlotte be-
fore anybody knew he was ill, and it
was a cause of distinct anxiety to the
members of the student body when they
learned of his serious condition. The
crisis has passed and all are looking for-
ward to his return to the campus.

Since his entrance at Davidson he has
made a record that any ambitious man
might envy. Not only in athletic work
has he been successful, but he has taken
an active part in the most important of
the activities on the Hill. At present he
is editor-in-chief of the Annual, editor of
the Peanut Parcher of the Davidsonian ;
also a member of the Sigma Upsilon and
Omicron Delta Kappa ‘honorary  fra-
ternity.

It is not known at present just when
Bill will come back to Davidson but the
best wishes of the student body go to
him for a speedy recovery and an early

return.

QUADRENNIAL CONFERENCE
OF CHRISTIAN ENDEAVORERS

The International Quadrennial Confer-
ence of Christian Endeavor is to be held at
Indianapolis. The representation of each
one will use its full capacity, picking the
men with care.

At the last meeting of the union an
“Outside of College Volunteer Union”
was discussed and probably it will meet
Thanksgiving at the suggested place,
Trinity. They hope to gather all of those
“out-of-college” men and women who
are interested in the work; colleges will
also be represented and a successful con-
ference is expected.

Additional plans were made at the
meeting of a meeting of the Executive
Committee of the State Volunteer Union
held recently at Greensboro, The meet-
ing was attended by McBryde and Hud-
gins from Davidson. Hudgins is leader
of the band leaders of the State.

Have
ou
Paid
Your
u
scrip-
tion?

Let’s Make the
DAVIDSONIAN
Second to None
in the Field of
College
Journalism

“Grab a Root”

Most up to

Watch for our
latest dance an

PLAYER

‘

People’s Home

VICTROLAS

Rolls by greatest artists

FURNITURE

For your hall or room
See us first

MOORESVILLE, _N. C.

date models

weekly list of
d vocal records

PIANOS

Furnishing Co.

