4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 8,

1923 °

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Open Forum

" Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association

(This department is conducted by the editor,
for the benefit of those members of the stu-
dent body, or faculty, who desire to express

Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF’ '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

their opinions on any matter which might arise
during the‘collegiate year. It is the hope of the
Davidsonian staff that the column will be con-
ducted for the betterment of compus life, and
that the students will express themselves freely
and enter into open-hearted discussions on
campus problems. The names of the writers
will be withheld from publication, if such is the
desire of the writer. All articles must be handed |
in to the Editor of the Davidsonian by 7:00 p. m.
Monday.) 2

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

LISTON D. ELKINS..-----.--- Editor-in-Chief
REGINALD L. PRICE.----- Business Manager

Editorial Staff

Managing Editor
W. Z. BRADFORD

Assistant Managing Editor
A, C. WILDMAN
W. M. CO)

Assistant Managing Editor
LOWAY casiciscee, Athletic Editor
HESTON...-_- Peanut Parcher Editor

Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
.---Alumni Editor

0. J. ALLISON

M.

Busincss Staff

J. R. BRIGGS Advertising KieSiMCALPING cosco es Subscription

R. W. OELA ..-Advertising W. H. CROMWELL.. -----Bookkeeper

P. J. STORY .-Subscription AYOMieHURD sed bsteulascse Service Department
J: “MiEGARRISON c22 socccseecsceeaee Assistant i

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT
J. A. THOMPSON, Assistant Manager

REPORTERS’ CLUB

WATT McCAIN, Manager

WALTHALL, D, B., Pres. GIBBS, L. B. , PITTS, B. Y.
WHARTON, D. B., Vice-Pres. GREEN, J. L. ~REGAN, E, K.
PATTON, J. H., Sec’y-Treas, HURD, A, M. ROGERS, G,_D.
ALLISON, O. J. MARSHALL, C, K. SELSER, J. M.
APPLEBY, J. M. MILHOU, . F, SHAW, H. L.
BEALL, McP. S. MILTON, W. E, STORY, P, J.
BOWIE, A. Y, MOFFETT, A, N. WHITE, H, M.
EARNEST, J. R. MONK, C. WILLIAMS, J. M.

O'CONNOR, E. P.

EDITORIAL

ANCHORITE PERIODS

To every man who travels the highway of service and usefulness,
there must come periods of hermitage; periods of voluntary seclusion,
when the world is far away as distant planets, when “no one lives but
thought and me.”

The success of world movements, it is true, is dependent upon intense |

activity. The spirit of restlessness and discontent is an essential factor
in progress. It is a propelling force—a requisite for human accomplish-
ment. And yet, misdirected activity may send individuals, even nations,
to ruin,

Out of silent meditation grows the discontent and energetic spirit
which sets movements.of merit agoing. In cloistered retreats where the
hum of machinery is never heard, and where the commercialistic whirr of
life is silenced by walls of contemplation, great ideas are conceived. Away
from the crowds, away from the thrones of business and pleasure, away
from the world, in a lonely kingdom of pensive reflection, ideas and ideals
are ushered into being.

__, Have you ever been alone with yourself? Have you formed an
intimacy with your own thoughts? The power of society and association
on human thought is acknowledged indispensable, yet “solitude sometimes
is best society.” :

_ Sit alone and think! Think of the problems which enter your life, and
weigh them in your leisure mind. Turn them over and over again. Debate
them with yourself, and be convinced that you are right or wrong. Assume

the role of judge, and when the scales have measured thought with
thought, choose wisely,

D
DAVIDSON COLLEGE—DEALER IN MEN

_ A retrospective study of the accomplishments of the little Presbyte-
rian College of North Carolina is a review ofbrilliant attainments through
a long period of years. It i$ a study of great and noble lives that have
stood out as beacons in the national fife of America. It is a study of men
—for this is the material with which Davidson deals; this is the finished
product sent intothe world to represent Davidson ideals.

Eighty-six years ago Davidson College was founded. It was an
embodiment of the love-of-God, love-of-country spirit that filled the
breasts of the Scotch-Irish settlers of the Northern Carolina, The estab-
lishment of an institution of learning, wherein could be trained for God
and country the young manhood of the state, followed in the wake of the
struggles for religious and political freedom. The same men who gave
birth to the Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence, and who raised the
standards of the Church of Christ above their homes and villages, were the
fathers of the college whose motto expressed the spirit that dwelled
‘within their Scotch and Irish breasts. Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas (Let
learning be cherished where liberty has aisen) expressed the spirit of
their religion, their patriotism and their appreciation of learning,

Davidson has grown from a college of sixty-six students to one of-the
large “small colleges” with an enrollment of 577. Eighty-six years have
been spent in human investment. The lives and characters of men are

being moulded and fashioned for one great mission—service. Davidson is
dealing in men!

D:

The popular unrest and discontent of the times, necessary as it may
be, demands the best thought that is in man. The headlong rush of the
modern being, the hurry and bustle of life, challenges men: who can give
time to meditation and serious study of the problems of the age.

D |

The division of the Freshman class into groups may be regarded as
oneof the mest logical. steps taken by the Court of Control. The new men
coming to Davidson are acquainted withthe traditions and the aims of col-
lege, and are taught a love for their Alma Mater. Leading men of the stu-
“dent bod are making appeals each week to the various groups on sub-
_. jects of Wi $ is Expected of a Davideon Man; Scholarship; Athletics and
"Body Development; 2nd Religious Activity, :

eae z

THROW AWAY YOUR HAM-
“MER! -

Too much destructive and not enough
constructive criticism; too much break-
ing down of a co-operative spirit, and
not enough boosting. That constitutes

DOPE BOX GIVES USUAL
UNCERTAIN INDICATIONS

Saturday, as usual, furnished several
upsets as to the relative strength in
Davidson’s dwindling roll of opponents.

Clemson received a sound and unex-
pected walloping; Carolina romped on
South Carolina and Trinity proved much
stronger than the prophets had conceded
her to be.

Clemson, Davidson’s next enemy, is not
playing up to her early season standard.
V. P. I. found no trouble in licking her
Saturday. Her heavy line seems to have
cracked under the strain of several suc-
cessive, terrific contests. By the route
of comparative scores with Wildcats she
suffers. Here they are: Davidson 3,
P. C. o.. P. C. 7, S. C. 3; S. C. 6, Clemson
7, and better still: Davidsono, V. P. I. 7;
V. P.I. 25, Clemson 6. But Clemson fights
her best at home and regardless of her de-

what has been going on on the campus
for some time this year in regard to
checring and. cheer-leading. This has
been a topic for many “bull session” dis-
cussions, and if there is one in the |
crowd who is antagonistic he can dis-|

| backfields in the South.
| tages fully take care of the narrow mar-

feats she still has one of the fastest
These advan-

gin which separate them from the Wild-
cats in the score column.

Carolina is doped to win. She frocked

astrously use his influence, since people, . :
as a whole, are easily led. | South Carolina to the merry tune of
Does any Senior here remember hav- | 13-9 with two of her stellar players on

ing pep meeting for the Freshmen for |
| two solid weeks after school started and |
| then have them for two or three nights
in succession before every game? The
answer to this is negative. There have}
jnot been cheer. leaders here for some}
| time who have worked so consistently,
so earnestly and so zealously with the
new men to instill into them that Wild-
cat fighting spirit. chs

Again, for many years past the pep
meetings that we have held on each
night before each game played in Char-
lotte this year have been an absent factor
in the cheer-leading routine. This is a
| new practice that has been instituted and
is a decided means to a great end.

Further, does anyone remember the
time when as many students got up at
6 o'clock in the mornig to see a Davidson
team off as when our team left for V.
P.1.? Again the answer is echoed, “No.”
. And yet there is a great deal of crit-
icism going the rounds on the campus.
Let every individual examine shimself
first and see whether he is doing his
hest in cheering. Let him look around |
and see what the others are doing, and
then if everybody is not doing his best,
then start the criticism of your cheer
leaders.

We (this is used collectively since oth-
ers have observed this besides the writ-
er) have seen some Davidson men sit in
the stands and whenever Davidson made
a good gain they would slightly smile,
but no sound of rejoicing emanated from
their lips. Even when Davidson made
the touchdown against State last Sat-
urday a few of these gave a little broad-
er smile than usual, while others among
them were yelling and leaping and bang-
ing upon each other. ,

You can’t blame this on the cheer-lead-
ers. And for this reason you—the one
who is reading this—look back and see
if you did your best, and if you haven't
made any observations before, make
some at the next game,

Who could want a more general evi-
dence of pep than that exhibited in the
game last Saturday? Even in the dark-
est moments that fighting spirit still
lived. After State had crossed our goal
line, O Davidson was played, and when
the yells followed this, it undoubtedly
sent a thrill to the heart of each player
to know that we, the students, appre-
ciated his efforts and were backing him
to the last.

The cheer-leaders have worked hard,
they have put far more pep into the stu-
dent body than existed last year, and
they deserve your co-operation and your
backing instead of your knocking.

How about it?

—True Blue.

RAIN INTERFERES IN THE

WORK OF SUNDAY SCHOOLS

Because of bad weather only a few
men were able to go out to the “Y” Sun-
day Schools last Sunday afternoon.
However, there were five men who went
to Shearer and several who went to the
Mill, Chapel. Notwithstanding the rain
and mud the attendance at Shearer was
20. Those Who have been going to Hob-
son Chapel, Cornelius, and the convict
camp were unable to go on account of
the steady downpour of rain.

Several new mission Sunday Schools
will be organized as soon as they can be
provided for. It may be some time yet
before they can be started, as there is
so much to be done in connection with
the ones which the “Y” already has in
charge. °

the sick list. Nor does this tell half the
tale. South Carolina did not make a
single first down, while Carolina made 20.
And in one week the whole team will be
in tip-top shape for the V. P. I. fray
which promises to be one of the closest
and hardest struggles of the year. In all
probability, the Flying Cadets will put a
number of the Tar Heels on the injured

| list, whether she wins or not.

Trinity seems to have revived. She
“changed horses in the middle of the
stream,” and seems to have gained there-
by. Saturday she dropped Steiner, men-
tor for three years, and elected assistant
Burbage, a .former Auburn player as
temporary leader. It is reportet that
Alexander, formerly with Washington
and Jefferson, will succeed Steiner. Any-
way Elon was smothered by the Blue
Devils, 34-0, while Davidson only turned
the Christians back, 19-0. Probably a
rejuvenation, only second to that of
Wake Forest with the advent of Garrity,
has come to the. Durham Devils. David-
son will watch with intense interest the
combat of the Blue Devils and the Bap-
tists next Saturday.

Thus ends the tale; Trinity waxing
stronger; Carolina at her best; Clemson
an unknown quantity, but fighting at
home. Dope looks bad; but it is history
and no myth, that the Davidson spirit
has squashed dope many time in the
past. With» “Monk” Younger at the
helm and the Davidson spirit rising, no
team will feel safe until the Wildcats are
out of the way.

WRESTLERS PRACTICE FOR
ONCOMING SEASON

Before many days have passed, the
pigskin will be thrown to the shelf, and
from the nooks and corners of the cam-
pus, the mighty Herculeans will come
forth, arrayed in their black tights and
ready to start a season of wrestling.
The wrestling team of Davidson Col-
lege will begin practice around Novem-
ber Ist; with prospects bright for the
best season in the history of the college.
Captain Weems, an officer of the David-
son R. O. T. C, unit, who was a football
man, and captain of the army wrestling
team has agreed to give part of each af-
ternoon to the coaching of the sport.

The schedule for the wrestling is now
completed except for two dates. As soon
as these two dates are gotten and con-
tracts signed the full schedule will be
published. It is planned to have two
matches on the hill and four away from
Davidson. Although the schedule is par-
tially uncertain, a match with Trinity at
Davidson is assured, and plans for a
trip through North Carolina and Vir-
ginia are well under way. The Wildcat
wrestlers will meet all of last year’s op-
ponents, and will give them more for
their money than they did in 1922.

As soon as arrangement can be made
to secure a new mat, the squad will be
called. There are three letter men from
last year’s team back, Captain Cromartie,
Lindamood and Selsor, and two men
from the last year squad, White and Pat-
terson.

It is understood that Coach Younger
will have all of his football linesmen out
for wrestling, as a means of develop-
ment for next year’s North Carolina
champions. On account of the large
number of new men out in each class, the’
old men have their positions in no way
cinched. With five old men back, and
numbers of new men out, this should be
a golden season in wrestling for: the
Wildcat grapplers.

Exchanges

The following is a list of the college
and university exchanges which have
been received by the Davidsonian:

The Flat Hat, William and Mary Col-
lege; Arizonia Wildcat, University of
Arizonia; Centre College Cento, Centre
College; The Bluestocking, Presbyte-
rian College of South Carolina; The Pur-
ple and White, Millsaps College; The
Hornet, Furman University; The Kanga-
roo, Austin College; The Watchtower,
Wesleyan College; The Lenorian, Lenoir
College; The New Student, National
Student Forum; The Tulane Hullabloo,
Tulane University; Columbia Spectator,
Columbia University; The Petrel, Ogle-
thorpe University; The Technique,
Georgia Tech; The Trinity Chronicle,
Trinity College; The Vanderbilt Hustler,
Vanderbilt University; The Gamecock,
University of South Carolina; The Vir-
ginia Tech, Virginia Polytechnic Insti-
tute; The Hampden-Sidney Tiger, Hamp-
den-Sidney College; The Anchor, Hope
College; The Baylor Lariat, Baylor
University; The Tar Heel, University of
North Carolina; The Agonistic, Agnes
Scott College; The Crimson-White, Uni-
versity of Alabama; The Technician,
North Carolina State College; The
Bethel Collegian, Bethel College; The
Crimson Rambler, Transylvania College;
Old Gold and Black, Wake Forest Col-
lege; King College News, King College;
The Mississippian, University of Miss-
issippi; The Emory. Wheel, Emory Uni-
versity; The Carolinian, North Carolina
College for Women; The Ring-tum Phi,
Washington and Lee University; The
Yellow Jacket Weekly, Randolph-Macon
Collegé; Wheaton College Record,
Wheaton College; Maroon and Gold,
Elon College; The Orange and Blue, Car-
son-Newman College; The Campus, Al-
legheney College; The Tiger, Clemson
College; The Prospector, College of
Mines and Metallurgy; The Brackety-
Ack, Roanoke College; The Plainsman,
Auburn; Martha’s Mirror, Martha Wash-
ington College; The Guilfordian, Guil-
ford College; The Florida ’Gator, Uni-
versity of Florida; Red and Black, Uni-
versity of Georgia; The Twig, Meridith
College; Davenport Weekly Record,
Davenport College; The Panther, Arkan-
sas College; The Mercer Cluster, Mercer
College; The Student Life, Pomona Col-
lege; The Reflector, Mississippi A. and
M. College; The Belhaven Miss, Bel-
haven College; Queens Blues, Queens
College; The»Torch, Valparaiso Univer-
sity; Richmond Collegian, University of
Richmond; Centenary Conglomerate,
Centenary College; The Sou’wester,
Southwestern Presbyterian University.

The list of exchanges which have been
received from prep and high schools is
as follows: The Scout, Danville Military
Institute; Gold and Black, Concord High
School; The Rambler, Charlotte High;
The “C. Q.,” Fishburne Military School;’
High Life, Greensboro High School;
The Inkling, Burroughs High School;
The Berry News, Berry School; The
Darlingtonian, Darlington School; The
Oracle, Woodberry Forest School; The
Hi-Rocket, Durham High School; The
Round Hillian, Round Hill Academy.

Nominations are now in order for
Junior and Senior debaters. The An-
nual Junior-Senior debate is due to open
November 14th, when the Pandeinics and
Metrophilians stage their preliminaries.
November 16th the Eumeneans and Phil-
anthropics pick their respective
teams. November 21, the Pandeinics and
Metrophilians clash in the semi-finals.
Two days later the Eumeneans and Phil-
anthropics battle for supremacy. Decem-
ber 7th is the date of the real excite-
ment, for winners of both divisions will
be prepared to launch offensives for the
cup. Who will win and why? All Jun-
iors and Seniors are needed to defend
their class and society honors. Come
on—Let’s go!

The question for debate is one of cur-
rent, national interest, Resolved: That
Congress, at its coming session, should
enact legislation to relieve the wheat
growers of the United States, by guar-
anteeing to them a price sufficient to net
at least 10 percent profit over the cost of
wheat production, as estimated by Gov-
ernment statistics.

Last year the Pandeinics won the cup.
They were represented by Williamson,
Davis and Walthall. The debate this
‘year promises to be fast and furious,
with plenty of argument and pep.

The fight is on Marquis of Queensbury
rules, and may best man win. :
