THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 20, 1923

abn a

ALUMN

I NEWS

Pyengyang, Chosen, Korea, Nov. 15, 1923.
-Dear Davidson Boys:

It has not been the lack of desire to write
that has kept me silent thus long, but a grand
rush at getting into a new house and many
other duties that have come one on top of
the other. I suppose that is a usual excuse
of mine together with members of my tribe
in general, but this fall we have seemed to
be going at a faster pace than ever, and
there has really been a great deal that has
taken time.

First, I would say what you all know, we
have a new house, and while’we are still pil-
grims here on this world, still we are begin-
ning to feel more settled than we ever have
before, for it is a splendid thing to have a
home of your own. And we have a nice,
comfortable house, and have at last gotten

not an ordained man, as you all know. I have |
had to teach the preparatory class for the
teachers in the children’s Sunday School, and
this takes some time for preparation. Hope
to get Koreans to help more, and gradually
they will take over some of the work, for
they can do many things better than the for-
eigner, but we shall continue to have charge.
Many of you have been so kind in the past as
to send picture cards and rolls that have been
used at home; any gifts of this kind will be
greatly appreciated and used to the best
advantage.

We plan to hold special services at this
little chapel the last of December or the 1st
of January next, so about the time you get
this letter we shall doubtless begin. Re-
member these meetings in your prayers, and
especially remember the leaders of them, The

fairly well settled in the same. We feel as!
though we were in a palace, and we do have
a great many conveniences—electric lights |
and running water, for we’ are in the city—|
so as for the material side of our lives we |
are indeed well off. We have lived in bor-
rowed houses and had to move so much that
all this does not seem real to us yet, and in
our dreams we go off moving again, but
gradually we hope to get used to the feeling |
that we don’t have to vacate quarters as soon
as the proper owners of the house come back |
from furlough. The contractor who built
our house gave us an extra good piece of
work, for he has not built here before, and
he wanted to show what he could do as an
advertisement to get further work at Pyeng-
yang.

Then, too, this fall I have had a heavier
schedule at the college, having had to take
on some extra hours that were left vacant
by the resignation of Mr, Oak, one of our
Korean teachers. I have enjoyed the work
at the school, but I have gotten behind with
other things in consequence, and now only am
I beginning to get fairly well caught up.

Since September, Mr. Hamilton and 1
have had joint charge of a little chapel in a
nearby heathen village, and this work has
been a great blessing to us both, but at the
same time it has given us extra hours, I
have charge of two Sunday Schools every
Sabbath morning at this chapel, and am also
responsible for the Sunday night service,
while Mr. Hamilton takes charge of the
other work, and is pastor in charge, as I am

S. & W.

CAFETERIAS

Good Home Cooking and
Courteous Service
Is Our Specialty

Charlotte Winston-Salem
Asheville and Greenville, S. C.

EDUCATION MAKES
THE WORLD A
BETTER PLACE

TO LIVE IN---

SO DOES LIFE
INSURANCE

SOUTHERN LIFE
AND TRUST CO.

GREENSBORO, N. C.

A.-W. McALISTER, Pres.
H. B. GUNTER, Ag’cy Mar.

little village is along the side of one of our
rivers, and the people are for the most part
heathen yet. They are very poor and ig-
norant, and many of them lost all they had

mer.
come

Pray that very many of them may
to Christ at this time. They show
much interest and all we do is well received,
but their minds are still darkened. May God
give us many souls in this place!

T don't know that IT have mentioned the
floods in any of my letters to all of you, The
Ist of August we had the worst rains ever
known in the history of Korea, and tidal
Waves accompanied the flood, so that all the
western coast was affected, and around in
this region all places near rivers. Pyengyang
city itself was largely under water, and both
Koreans and Japanese had to vacate and. live
rin the hills. Of course the calamity that
overtook Japan proper was so much greater
than anything we had here that we can not
feel but grateful, but still there was and is
a great deal of suffering right around us on
account of the floods. T need not mention the
Japanese earthquake as you have all seen full
accounts.of that in the papers. Many of our
missionaries were in Japan at the time, but
they were all wonderfully preserved, even
though in places of the greatest danger, and
indeed we know of only one missionary who
lost her life at this time. God certainly does
protect His people, and T could tell you much
of the ways in which He showed His provi-
dence and care for those who trusted Him,
but T must not take the time to do this now.

ne the terrible floods we had here last sum-
i]

We have just closed a most blessed week
of meetings held by Dr. Beiderwolf and
party, who are on their way to China, the
Philippines and Australia, but:who were able
to give about three weeks to Korea. They
had meetings in Japan, and then came to
| Taiku, Kwangju, Seoul, and lastly here to
| Pyengyang. The meetings elsewhere were
most successful in every way, and here in!
| this city alone more than a thousand ime
| forward to give themselves to Christ. ~Dr.
Beiderwolf gave some of the strongest ser-
}mons many of us have ever heard and he
was indeed used of God to stir the minds of
these people, both those in the church already
and new believers. Mr. Homer, Rodeheaver,
known so well to all of you as the Billy Sun-
| day choir leader, and Miss Saxe, also of the
| Sunday party, were with Dr. Beiderwolf, as
| well as Miss Hay and Dr. Rodeheaver, Mr.
| Rodeheaver’s brother. All were fine, and
| Mr. Rodeheaver certainly captivated the Ko-
reans with his singing and trombone playing
as well as with his most spiritual messages,
|He rendered many of his own songs in
Korean, and his pronunciation was so per-
fect that all were amazed. He plans to have
| the ‘songs reproduced in Korean on phono-
graph records, and these will be a great
|help to us in our work here, While in Japan
he made some records for the Japanese Phon-
ograph Company, so his songs will be out in
Japanese soon, and also in other languages
of the East. We were all helped by these
meetings and feel inspired to go on to better
|work. We certainly praise God for sending
Dr. Beiderwolf and these workers to us at
| this time.

One or two personal matters I will men-
tion, and then I must close. The children’s
{eyes are so much better that the doctor has
no fears now and we have been out of quar-
antine for quite a while. Jean goes to school
daily, and Frances attended Korean kinder-
garten till she got too bad a cold to go long-
;er, but she hopes to start again soon. We
have kept well as a whole, but always have
colds to some extent, and my wife has had |
to take two trips to the dentist—once to
Kunsan, and then once to Kwangju, as the |
dentist moved—since about September Ist.
The weather has turned cold now after a
very mild fall, and we are glad that we are
settled in our new home beore the winter is
on us.

We assure you that we remember you all
there. “Write ie us “when! yaer-c22, cay and
all of you, for this letter goes to all. Only

PAWS ARG

_one star for his excellent playing at cen- |

Wish f had the time to write each one of |

you personally, and want to assure you that |
any letters sent me will be answered. May

_God bless you in your work and make you!
ja blessing in all you do.

To the Davidson boys I would say just a
word. You are remembered there especially,
and we are always most interested in all the
news we receive about D. C. How it has
grown this year! We receive The David-
sonian through a friend, though our sub-
scription should be direct. However, from
year to year it is hard to keep up with for-
eign subscribers, for your force is contin-
ually changing there, we know. Your games
are followed with much interest, and though
I have seen but the results of one game, that
was as it should be, and I can only say, Hur-
rah for Old D. C. May God be with you in
the work there in the college and may He
call many of you to do His work on the for-
eign field.

With all best wishes for every one of you,
I am, Your fellow worker,

W. P. Parker.

LETTERS AWARDED

oO

(Continued from page 1)
Davidson.” He received a “D" and three
stars,

W. S. Shepherd, better known as Gig,
who is at Davidson for his fifth year, re-
ceived “D" and three stars, Gig at
left halfback has ever been one of David-
reliable on defensive,
quick on offensive and possessing a toe
that has punted the ball out of many
dangerous Gig played in 33
quarters during the last season.

The position of left end has been ably
filled this year by C. M. (Nappy) Davis.
Nappy is in his Senior year and has been
on the Varsity for the last three years.
He played in 37 quarters last season and
was found at all times a scrapping Wild-
He re-

a
é

son's best bets,

corners,

cat in every sense of the word.
ceived a “D" and two stars.

Mason Fields, the center of Davidson's
cluster in football
ever since his Sophomore year. At cen-
ter he was the pivot about which swung
the Davidson offensive and on defensive
he a great in a strong
stone wall, He played in 28 quarters and
received a “D” and two stars, lL

A “D" and one star was awarded to
Long. Long, at left guard, had
played in 28 quarters during the past
and has proved at all times
mountain of strength in the line of the
“Wildcats machine.”

Warren Cox was awarded a “D" and)

of stars, has shone

Was big rock

season a

ter in 21 quarters during the past season. |
Although he weighs less than 150, War-
ren has instilled into muscle and sinew
cnough typical Wildcat fighting spirit |
to more than make up for his lack of |
weight and to play at all times a splen- |
did game, |

J. W. (Doc) DeArmon was awarded a
“D" and one star. “Doe” holds the posi- |
tion of fullback and played in 21 quar-
Doc played such a stellar game in|
the memorable V. P. I. contest last year
t he for himself immediately

ters,

that won a
place on the Varsity, and eventua in |
the “D" Club. Ever since thenf#Doc” |

has been there with the goods whenever
called upon.

J. P. Hendrix, who played at quarter-
back in 39 quarters during the past sea-
awarded a “D” and one star.
Jim has proved at all times an able lead-
er of the team and his quick thinking |
has often saved the day for the Wild- |
cats. :

son, Was

J. C. Hunt, otherwise Popsy, was)
awarded a “D"” and one star. Popsy
played in 17 quarters during the past

and always delivered the goods when,
most needed. It was his educated toe
that brought victory in the P. C. game
and he accounted for the lone counter in
the U. of N. C. game. He plays at half-
back.

S. W. Summers, one of the strongest
cogs in the Red and Black Machine,
played in 19 quarters during the past
season. Due to an injured ankle sus-

tained in the V. P. I. game Sam was

_kept out of several games but in all in,

which he played he accounted for many
a broken play on the part of the Wild-
cat opponents. Sam received a “D,”

C. E. Hodgin, at tackle, played in 20
quarters during the past season and re-
ceived a “D.” Hodgin has exhibited a
great style of fight all season but in the}
game with U. of N. C. he broke his leg!
and was thus eliminated from the Wild- |
cat fighting line for the rest of the year. |

Flake Laird played in 25 quarters last)
season and receives a “D.” Flake is a|
most versatile player, filling with equal |
exceiience. either a backfield position or
one in the line.

| reputation stretching back through high

H. H. Lindamood was awarded a “D.”| SWEATERS, PENS, AND
He played at tackle and was in 24 quar- | PENCILS STOLEN FROM
ters during last season. Harry came to| W. S. HENDERSON

Davidson last-year-with-a great athletic}

school but could not play football due to| Wednesday night, the 12th of December,
the fact that his heart was in bad condi-

am cap the jewelry store of W. S. Henderson was
tion. This year, though, he was able to broken into and some of the stock taken.
come out and he readily made a place | rhe manner of entrance was through the
on the team and played a wonderful | sent door, where a small portion of the
brand of ball atiail times, ‘glass was broken, and the lock was opened
H. L. Vance played at left guard py thrusting the hand through this opening.
through 30 quarters last season and was’ Seyen of the finest sweaters in stock were
awarded a “D” for his excellent serv-' taken, also the complete line of fountain
ices. Harry was at all times a good, pens and pencils was taken.
steady, reliable player and was always
very much present when most needed. |

R. E. Boggs, better know as Sook, fill- |
ed the position of right guard for 10
quarters and was awarded a “D.” Sook |
possesses the weight and drive necessary |
to make him a dangerous opponent both |
on defense and offense. His playing in

the V. P. I. and Wake Forest games |
was especially noteworthy. H
W. M. Black has the distinction of

having played in every quarter of every |
game played last season. sing a
sinashing drive similar only to that of a
locomotive under full steam, he was a!
Most consistent ground gainer, as it gen- |
erally took three or four to stop him,
He played at right halfback and was |
awarded a “D.” \

Ted Covington was awarded a “D." He
held the position of halfback through
1g quarters last season, It was: Ted who
caught the pass that netted Davidson a
touchdown against N. C. State and as
an off-tackle runner he repeatedly proy-
ed his excellence.

Tom Baker, who played at end, was
awarded a “D.") Tom played in 1 quar-
ters and, through his uncanny ability to
receive was one of the
ground gainers for the Wildeats.

Lucien Wells came out comparatively
late in the season but immediately led-
gan to show up as a brilliant prospect.
He filled the position of halfback through
12 quarters last and
Davidson's brightest hopes
He received a “D."

W. Z. Bradford, manager of, the “serap
pingest” team the gridiron, was,
awarded a “D.") Too much credit. can-
not be given Bradford for the excellent
manner in which he ran things through
the last season,

Poss

In the lexicon of youth,
which Fate reserves for a
bright manhood, there’s just
one word to sum up the col-
lege student’s idea of dress!

Ease!

Hence the success of our
young men’s Fall and Win-
ter suits. Rather full backs
with perfectly soft fronts.
Trousers fairly wide. Good
selection from $35.00.

q

MELLON'S

Passes, star

season is one of
for next

year,

on

VICTROLAS

New Records Weekly —
VICTOR ANY BRUNSWICK

GIBSON MANDOLINS AND GUITARS

CONN CORNETS, TROMBONES
AND SAXOPHONES

LUDWIG DRUMS
PLAYER PIANO ROLLS
SHEET MUSIC .

Will Handle Deferred Payment Accounts

ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Ine.

CHARLOTTE ~

We are specially prepared to analyze and take care of your

INSURANCE NEEDS

A consultation with us might

SAVE YOU SEVERE LOSSES

McALISTER CARSON, Manager

Insurance Department

Independence Trust Company
Phone 3940

