2

we

THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 7, 1923

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Iintered at the Post Office of Davidso

nas Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

. Editor-in-Chief W. FF, GALLOWAY -__. ... Athletic

His Managing Editor W. M. COX. Associate litor
_ Peanut Parcher H. B, PRICE Associate Editor
Alumni Editor GM; Associate Editor

McILWAINE

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT

Ro 1. PRICE, Business Manager
Assistants
W. oH. CROMWELL Sauccppeneare Office A.M. HURD-. Serviee Department
Pp. J. STORY R _ Subscriptions 2 Solicitor

. STORY___. J. 1. McLEAN- soliei
GEO. McLEAN Solicitor JULIAN BRIGGS Solicitor

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT

J. A. THOMPSON, Assistant Manager

WATT McCAIN, Manager

Applications for the session 1923-24 forecast a student body of SV),
Another record-breaking enrollment, and may it be a good omen,

The delayed construction on the new Watts building will cause a short
congestion at a critical time. Of the 575 students expected this year, about
240 will be freshmen, Practically one-half of the entire student body will
be new men. The salvation of a situation such as will exist on the David-
son campus after September 14th is system, The Court of Control has
completed it plans for handling the freshman class as a whole. The organ-
ization of the students promises system in their functionings as a body.
System in the governing-of both is vital.

pS SIS Ap yan

And this same type of system in the routine of student life is of para-
mount importance to each individual student; be he freshman or upper-
classman, System in study has made many an average student have two
weeks less of school during his senior exams and the fellows that take the
entire exam period as a vacation are those who started on system the day
after they registered as freshmen,

[)-——-

System in one good habit tends to system in another, Co-ordination
of work and play are the main factors in the development of the man, If}
you cannot combine them in the proper proportion without a written)
schedule, make one, Then follow it.

epee eraser en [yy es cS

‘that given at Emory University each year,

The day you reach the “Jaybirdsville” station will be the time to
start showing some of that old Wildcat Spirit. .\ new athletic field, a new |
coaching staff, a new season are awaiting you. The squad have been on!
the grounds working since the first of September. Let’s give them the |
backing of a student body of 575.) Have a good word for the football man
on the campus. Show the fellows who are doing the work that every man
is right behind them.

D

Make 1923-24 an honor system year. This system is the foundation
of the student government at Davidson College and should be regarded as
such in a very strict light. Property of any description is free from
molestation in other schools having the honor system, wherever that
property may be. We can do as well. The “Y” Handbook has a copy of
the constitution and by-laws explaining the honor system for the benefit
of theenew men, These should befamiliar to every student.

D

The first game is with lon on September 22d, ‘Davidson plays two
games before the usual season opens. Get out and back up the squad.

D

Some of the policies which were decided upon during the latter part
of the spring may not meet with the approval of everyone but it is the duty
of every member of the student body to acknowledge the rights of the
majority and to fall in line with the leaders in carrying out their plans. |
The Court of Control will be given a real test in the government of 240)
freshmen and is entitled to the co-operation of everyone. Turn out to the |
“Y” meetings and back Mr. Williams, who fills the secretary’s place this
year. You can help the “Y” by refraining from smoking in the gym; in|
the past it has kept a number of the ladies from attending. :

WATTS HALL WILL NOT BE
READY AT OPENING OF
COLLEGE

It has been hoped that Watts Hall would
be completed by the opening of college, but
on account of delay in one thing and. an-
other it is seen now that it will not be ready
for occupancy for-a couple of weeks. This

is going to be a temporary inconvenience, ,
but we know the boys will tolerate this in |
the best of spirit.

Boys rooming on first floor Watts will be |
placed on first floor West; those on second |

floor Watts on second floor West; those on |
third floor Watts on first floor East; those |

-Jage with a percentage of 90.3.

Castle sHaights is So eee ae ce Coe cease 90.3
Tennessee Military Institute ----- --85.0
r| Georgia Military College --- wEseso
Porter Military Academy —-- --81.7
Sewanee Military Academy ----------- 79.5
Senior Division
Davidson College ..--.------------- 87.5
The Citadel ---- --87.3
University of Tenn --86.7
Georgia Tech .......2. = --83.7
Alabama Polytechnic Institute -.------- 83.5
Official notice came to the college to

President Martin in this letter:
August 20, 1923.

ou fourth floor Watts on setond floor East: |

R. O. T. C. BOYS SHOWED
SUPERIOR SKILL
AT SUMMER CAMP

The Davidson students will be interested
in the following clipping from The Camp
McClellan Messenger:

Final rating of various R. O. T. C.runits
has been completed. Two groups of schools
are represented. First institutions of essen-
tially military character and secondly those
colleges of the senior division R. O, T. C.

In the first group Castle Heights Mi! uy
College, of Lebanon, Tenn., took high aver-
Tennessee
Military Institution was second with 85.

In the second group Davidson College led
with 87.5, The Citadel placed a closed sec-
ond with 87.3.

Essentially Military Schools

Dr. W. J. Martin, President,

Davidson College,

Davidson, N.C.
My dear Dr. Martin:

I take great pleasure in informing you
that the Camp MeClellan R. O, T. C. Camp
Trophy, a silver cup, has been awarded Da-
vidson College for 1923, This cup is award-
ed each year to the Senior Unit whose stu-
dents make the highest average in the R. O.
T. C, Camp. The cup is a*perpetual trophy,
to be competed for each year.

This trophy, now at the Presbyterian
College, will be forwarded to you some time
in September, Please convey to the stu-
dents of Davidson College, who were at
Camp McClellan this summer, my heartiest
congratulations on their success in) winning
this handsome prize.

Sincerely yours,
David C. Shanks,
Commanding.

GLEE CLUB AND DRAMATIC
CLUB PLAN STUNT NIGHT

#\t is proposed by the Glee Club and Dra-
matic Club to have a Stunt Night, similar to

this to be held in Shearer Hall about two
weeks after the opening of school. Any in-
dividuals, groups, or organizations are urged
to enter and to give in their stunt by the
17th of September, so that a rehearsal sched-
ule may be arranged. Therefore it is re-
quested that you plan your stunt before
coming back if possible.

There is a two-fold purpose for this stunt
night: first, to find and develop the musical |
and dramatic talent in the student body, and |
second, to furnish an evening's entertain- ,
ment. It is not necessary that all stunts be
along musical and dramatic lines, but we
suggest particularly dialogues, monologues, |
impersonations, humorous plays,  instru-
mental music, and acrobatic stunts.

At Emory University, Stunt Night has
come to be one of the big events of the
year, attracting many people from Atlanta,
and there is no reason why with the co-
operation of the students it should not be a
big thing at Davidson. We may at least give
it a trial.

STUDENT OFFICIALS
President Student Body:
A. M. Hillhouse.
President Y. M. C. A.:
W. T. Jones.
* President Athletic Association :
E. S. Faison.
Editor-in-Chief Davidsonian:
L. D. Elkins. »
Editor-inChief Quips and Cranks:
W. M. Heston.
Editor-in-Chief Magazine:
W._-F. Galloway.
President Senior Class.:
R. R. Jones.
President Junior Class:
C. M. S. McIlwaine.
President Sophomore Class:
T. S. Baker.
Captain Football Team:
FE. S. Faison.
Captain Basketball Team:
C. M. Davis.
Captain Baseball Team:
KE. FE. Boushee.
Cheer Leader :
O. J. Allison.
Captain-Manager Track Team:

Captain Westling Team:
H. H. Lindamood. 4

Manager Football Team:
W. Z. Bradford.

Manager Basketball Team:
J. I. Smith.

Manager Wrestling Team:
J. M. Selser.

President Dramatic Club;
W. T. Jones.

President of Pandeinic Literary Society:
Warren Cox.

President Eumenean Literary Society:
L. D. Elkins.

President Metrophilian Literary Society:
W. Z. Bradford.

President Philanthropic Literary Society:
J. Lee McLean.

DIRECTORY STUDENT
OFFICERS
Presidetit Student Body:
A. M, Hillhouse.
- President Y. M. C. A.:
W. T. Jones.
President Athletic Association ;
FE. S. Faison.
Editor-in-Chief Davidsonian :
L. D. Elkins.
Business Manager Davidsonian :
R. L. Price.
Editor-in-Chief Magazine:
W. F. Galloway.
Editor-in-Chief Annual:
W. M. Heston.
Business Manager Annual:
O. J. Allison.
Captain Football Team:
E. S. Faison.
Manager Football:
W. Z. Bradford.
Captain Basketball Team:
C. M. Davis.
Manager Basketball:
J. 1. Smith,
Cheer Leader :
Okey J. Allison.
Captain Baseball Team:
E. E. Boushee.
Manager Baseball :
A. C. Keels.
President Senior Class :
R. R. Jones.
President Junior Class:
C. M. McIlwaine.
President Soph Class:
FE. E. Baker.

BOARDING HOUSE DIRECTORY

No. Price

NEA Name of College Address Students Per
Student Manager of Manager Accom- Month

modated,.

Mrs. Barnes R. D. White 21 Georgia 50 $17.00

Mrs. Brady Ted Jones 107 West 54 22.50

Mrs. Bramlett Watt McCain 30 Georgia 65 24.00
J. M. Foster J. I. Smith 8 Watts _ 25.00 -

Misses Shumaker Harry Price 14 Rumple 160 18.00

J. Lee McLean 11 Rumple

Mrs. Smith Ed. Fewell 311 West 14 25.00

Mrs. Thompson M. D. Field. Gymnasium 85 20.00

Mrs. Williamson D. S. Phlegar 16 Georgia 35 20.00

*Mrs. White C. M. Davis 314 West 12... 30.00

*Note: Mrs. White’s boafding “nouse wifi not open until October.
