THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 25, 1923

The Wildcat Tribe

Ralph E. (Sook) Boggs

“Sook” hailed from Spartanburg when he |
first came to Davidson, but since then his |
parential abode has been changed to Bir- |
mingham, Ala.

Bogg’s high school record in athletics is

exceptionally good. He attended Hastock
Preparatory School at Spartanburg, S. C.
He was an all-state guard in basketball and |
his team was a runner up in the South Caro-
lina championship series of 1922. In foot-
ball he was a star backfield man and one of
the mainstays of the Hastock team.

In his first year at Davidson he took part |
in both the above named sports and played |
on both the Freshman basketball and foot-
ball teams. He was a guard on the Soph’s
championship team of last year. Later on |
he won a permanent berth on the Wildcat
quintet. His work at guard was second only
to that of “Pat” Crawford. “Sook” was a
close contester for a varsity position in foot- |
ball last year. His weight and drive made him
a dangerous opponent on offense ‘and de-
fense.

YELLOW FRESH CAPS

The report of the Court of Control shows
that the following freshmen have committed
offenses serious enough to be campussed
and to wear the briliant Yellow cap for the
period ending October the 23rd: Williams,
C. W., Haney, M. D., Moore, M. B., Ham-
mock, E. B.; for the period ending October
the 30th; McArthur, J. M.

UPPERCLASSMEN ADVISE
NEW FRESHMAN GROUPS

The Freshman Class Work,: which was

planned in detail last Spring, and which has | for an inferior product.

been in operation now for about a month,

has proved a decided success. Credit for

some
Contr:
I

cl

of the members of last year’s Court of
ol and all members of the present one.
g realizing the need that the Freshman
ass be divided into smaller groups in order
to obtain more personal knowledge of a
Freshman and to aid him in his campus ac-
tivities, the present plan was put in opera-
tion,

The Freshman class is now divided into
five groups, each division consisting of from
forty to fifty students. These various groups
meet every Monday night in Shearer Hall,

on,

1
| ways thought that you had the manhood to|exploded and added to the fury of the

‘stand up for what was right.
be a real test of your manhood.
“From.the beginning of your college days
through the remainder of your life you will
| be confronted with the great question of
right and wrong. It will be up to you to
!exert manhood and stand up for that which

you believe to be right, in spite of all op-!

position.”

That would | flames.

In conclusion the speaker urged his hearers |

that they not allow science to mislead them.

“Stand up,” challenged Mr. Glasgow, “for |

‘your faith and the faith of your fathers. Do
not be betrayed into giving up what you have
Demand the gen-
uine article and accept no cheap substitute.
‘Let him that thinketh he stands take heed

.. | this new phase of student activity is due to | lest he fall.”

Watt McCain led the song service, and
Wallace Purdy was at his post as pianist.
| During the opening exercises Perrin Hud-
/gins led in prayer. The speaker was intro-
|duced by Vic Brown, of the program com-
mittee.

The attendance was slightly lower than the
average, due to the number of students who
{were not on the hill during the week-end.
Come out and give the “Y" your support,
felldws. It is your organization.

The city was overcast with the
| black smoke and the sun shone blood red
upon the terrible catastrophe. Within one
hundred yards, on all except the seaward
side, great fires were raging and with amaz-
ling speed were approaching. People were
| grabbing blankets or some article from their
ruined buildings and fleeing. One of the
reasons the fire started so very quickly was
that the small coke ovens of clay, which the
Japs use for cooking, were all aglow pre-
paring their noon meal and soon set the
building afire after the quaking. With a
Danish friend, I moved toward the sea,
which elie only direction we could go.

Wildcat ceshiieatrouuce
P.C.ColtsTwoTouchdowns

Hudgins and McConnell Score on
South Carolinians

Coach Rawson’s Wildkittens
South Carolina last Thursday and added
another scalp to their growing collection,

invaded

| down on straight football

| point, but failed to kick goal.

; The play advanced about even from
‘this point, until Joe McConnell recov-
,ered a P. C. fumble and raced forty
yards for a touchdown, giving the spec-

from this

tators the thrill of a well executed
broken field run. D. C. failed to kick
goal

The Davidson yearlings took on new
life with this and were playing nicely un-
til a P. C. back intercepted a pass and
got by all but Davidson’s safety in a
pretty run. Davidson held for downs
inside the twenty yard line, the ball go-
ing over. The Davidson freshies were
marching toward another counter, Sapp
gaining consistently on end runs and the
Sapp-Hudgins pass combination work-
ing well, when the game ended.

PANDEINIC OFFICERS FOR
NEW TERM INSTALLED

At the last meeting of the Pandeinic
Literary Society, officers for the next
term were installed. The new officers

defeating the P. C. freshmen 12 to o in
a good exhibition of football at Rock

are: D. B. Walthall, president; C. M. S.
McIlwaine, vice-president; A. H. Hol-

\lingsworth, secretary; W. M. Cox, first

Boggs has made all the varsity trips this a Junior or Senior being in charge. It is l critic; H. B. Price, second critic, and L.

Hill.
year. His work in the V. P. I. and Wake jthe duty of the leader of cach group to act

The young hopefuls of the two Pres-! p.

LEX KLUTTZ BRINGS

Forest games, particularly, was of a stellar as a personal adviser to cach man, and it is sas :
nature, He has all the attributes of a foot- his special duty to obtain the grades of every (Continued from page 1)

ball player and his future is particularly | oye, |street and entrance. I have run the 100-
promising. Those who are failing are seen by the | yard dash many times out here on the Dav-
|leader, the cause is found out and any help | idson track, but never in my life did I get
‘and advice needed is given. ‘such a start as I did when I made a dash
, On each Monday some special speaker | for that only exit which was fast closing in. |
James Wirt DeArmon entered Davidson | from the Student Body gives a talk to dif-| When I was only half way to the door the

J. W. (Doc) DeArmon

/utes at the start when they appeared a

byterian colleges fought valiantly, the
North Carolina sprinklers holding the
edge throughout except for a few min-

bit nervous. P. C. threatened once in
the last quarter after intercepting a long
pass from Sapp, but Davidson held for
downs inside the twenty yard line and

Cox, sergeant-at-arms,

After the inaugural address by the
new president, the society had its reg- ‘
ular. program. The subject for debate
was, “Resolved, That the Ku Klux Klan
should be condemned by all right think-
ing Americans.” Glenn Eddington and A.
P. Hudgins successfully upheld the af-

with the class of '24. “Doc,” as he is known,
has since proven himself worthy to be called
a “Wildcat.” Especially in football has the
old do or die spirit of the Davidson man
been evident. :

Preliminary training as an athlete was re- this new work, it will be a great force aid ‘and heel. For a moment I was dazed and as

ceived on the strong Charlotte high team,
He made his “C” for two years in football

and also in basketball. After graduating. he Lean, Harry Price, Angus McBride and The shritlshricks of humans inside of top-

determined to go on down the alphabet and
thas accordingly secured a “D,”

During his first two years with the Red |
and Black, he played with the scrubs, always
improving. When the real chance came last
year in the hard-fought V. P. I, game, “Doc”
was there with the goods. He starred in
that game and by end of the season he had
won a berth in the “D" Club.

This year, his last at Davidson, DeArmon
has a regular berth on the varsity. He is
a strong cog in the Red and Black machine.

Harry H. (Poots) Lindamood |

Harry Lindamood came to Davidson with

athletic reputation stretching back
through high school. At his home town of
Columbus, Miss., he won letters in the two
years he attended school there. He entered
McCallie as a Junior and there built up a
reputation that gave him All South Prep
Tackle. Varsity work in prep football, bas-
ketball, track and swimming left his heart
in bad condition and in his Freshman year
at Davidson he was barred. from football.
He turned his energies to the mat and in his
Sophmore year he is Captain of the wrest-
ling team. With improvement in the con-
dition of his heart, he started the year on

an

the gridiron, and his playing at tackle has debate was: Resolved That the Ku Klux barely missed having some good size frag-

rated him the first string,

“Poots” has a physique that few men pos-
sess,

physical developement has not left a muscle

in his body flabby. When unable to play Pullen and Parker delivered strong and | Motion of the earth. It was certainly a pa-

football last year, his room was a gymna-
sium in itself, Weights that, if dropped on

the floor, sounded like a ton of brick, were was: Resolved, That Freshmen wearing the | escaped with their lives.

his playthings. With the rest of this year

and two other ones ahead of him, “Poots” | classmen during the period of their punish- Aid a bit of rescue work during this period.

wont fail to shine.

TWO DEBATES COMPOSE PHI tive. The decision of the judges was for the there-abouts who were badly bruised, and

SOCIETY PROGRAM

The meeting of the Philanthropic Lite- |

rary Society last Thursday evening was

marked with pep and enthusiasm. After- |
the general routine of business, the subject,|a boat sinking when the most experienced | Neath where I might have been killed if an-

Resolved, That the Ku Klux Klan should
be condemned by all right thinking Ameri-
cans was upheld on the affirmative by W. H.
Fitts and W. G. Houck, and by B. G. Brown
and A. B. Williford on the negative. ‘The
. judges awarded the decision to the nega-
tive side. : :
Following this was a spirited, extemporan-
eous debate, Resolved, That throwing water
out of the dormitorics should be stopped by
the students. C. C. McMillan maintained
that this drenching practice should be abol-
ished! by the students, while R. G. White
contended that they should take no action
_. toward stopping it. The judges decided that
“water throwing was legal.
_ H. M. White delivered a well thought out
‘oration on Ruts. Professor Dendy, a visi-
tor:tnthe. society, spoke fora few moments.

| ferent groups on. various phases, of campus | Céiling was almost upon me. I bent my body

life. These talks are proving yery success-
ful in combatting problems in (evethman's
life. The Freshmen are taking interest in
this work, and if the Student’ Body “backs

influence for good on the campus.
Group leaders are: Vic Brown, Lee Me-

John P

irrish,

JUNIOR EUMENEANS HOLD
FIRST MEETING

Last Tuesday night the Junior Eumenean
Literary Society held a meeting with its first
regular program, J. A, Bouvier presided in
the absence of the president. The subject
for the debate was, Resolved: That the
Towner-Sterling act should be passed by
Congress. The affirmative, represented by
H. L. Shelby and W. S. Woods, defeated J.

i

O. Craig and G, MeMillan of the negative, |

The men did well considering that it was the
first debate of the year.
L. Williams delivered an excellent oration

on Lorensie's Address to the Romans, This.|

oration was presented with a great deal of
fire and enthusiasm, and was well received
hy those present in the hall, H. Austin was
the reviewer for the evening,

METROPHILIANS HAVE
INTERESTING PROGRAM

The Metropolian Literary Society met on
Oct. 16th. The program of the society was
‘well prepared. The query for the regular

| Klan is a,meanace to society, A. C. Ray and
I. T. Pullen debated on the affirmative

Naturally big of frame, his love of | while Thompson and Parker upheld the neg- |! found a tremendous crowd jammed. to-

lative. The debaters were well prepared.

pointed speeches.
The query for the extemporaneous debate

| Yellow Cap should be ignored by upper

‘ment. W. A. Patterson debated on the af-
| firmative, and J. M. Carr upheld the nega-

negative.

|

|

MR. TOM GLASGOW SPEAKS

(Continued from page 1)

seamen were in charge.

“Those things in which we are surest of
ourselves, those things which we consider
the strongest links in our lives, are ofttimes
the links that break. Just when we are sure
that we can resist temptations, the temptation
comes and we give in. When we first give
in to little things, it is easy to give in to the
bigger and more weighty temptations.

“Leaders in college life have often gone
to ruin because they were too sure of them-
selves and gave in to little temptations, feel-
ing sure that they would be able to measure
up when the big tests of life came to them.

“When the crowd is going right, and-yau'se
with the crowd, it is an easy thing to keep
on the right road. But when the crowd goes
wrong it requires backbone to stand up for
what you believe to be right. You have al-

firmative against L. L. Deck and Bor-
| deaux of the negative. McClung deliver-
ed a declamation and A. F. Simpson gave
interesting resume of current

the ball went over.

Davidson’s touchdowns came as the re-
sult of an exceptional pass from Sapp | :
to Hudgins and by a P. C. fumble POEs ee
covered by Joe McConnell and carried | CVEents- oe
forty yards to touchdown for the last! Professor Dendy was PHESENC at the
counter. | mecting and gave a splendid talk to the
| society. He stressed the need of literary

After a good game by Sapp | society work as one of the necessary
of the Davidson backs fumbled and: P,| C#™MPus activities. He stressed the point
© peor “pw 1D, (©, Aaadhea vail hots | that each man should develop his talent

ace wWorlatten (itech rcalcinntlreree caver | along literary lines in order that he may
Pa ‘ ~ ,/be better equipped to fill his place in
and advanced the ball for several first |

ec,

downs before the Davidson Wildkittens |
tightened down and held, the ball go-}
ing over on downs. Sapp punted well] Dr. and Mrs, Porter Vinson, of Roch-
into midfield where the play continued) ester, Minn., who have been spending
tmtil Sapp uncorked a long pass to Hud-} several weeks in Davidson with Dr. Vin-

gins and put the ball in striking dis- /son’s mother, Mrs. W. D. Vinson, return-

tance. Davidson made their first touch- | ed to their home last Saturday.

}low, as though I were hitting a football line
for a needed touchdown, and with two almost
superhuman spurts I cleared the small open-

ling as the falling front grazed my back

it were, hypnotized; my cscape had been so
closesthat I was not sure that I was alive.

Davidson won the toss and elected to
receive,

pling buildings brought me to my full senses.

“Just at that mement [ looked up through
‘the dust and saw the-building on the Oppos-
ite side of the street crimbling and falling
toward me. [ ran back in the direction I |
had just come and barely managed to get
out of the way before that building fell, All
of this had happened in the flash of a few
seconds, but it seemed ages at that time.

“TL steadied myself as best I could, for the
Fearth was still shaking as though a million |
tons of dynamite were exploding near-by ev- |
fery fraction of a second. The movement |
tsuddenly changed up and down, then round
and round, from side to side as though I
were on a ship in an Indian Ocean monsoon.
I am usually pretty steady on my feet on ac-
count of athletic training and boxing, but
| 1 was positively unable to stand there, and
if it had not been such a serious matter, it
would have been funny to see me sprawling,
then scrambling to my feet again. I took a
tip then from the Japs about me and “stay-
ed put” .on all fours, and partly crawling |
went along the street as fast as possible for
there were still parts of the buildings all
arround on the narrow street which might
get me the next moment.

“While scrambling along, [ was swayed
from*one side of the street to the other and

BELK BROS. CO.

Clothing Department

Weare showing a complete line College Boys’
Suits, Hats and Furnishing Goods at attrac-
tive prices. Come in and see what wonderful
values we have to offer.

YOUNG MEN’S HAND-TAILORED SUITS
Schloss, Styleplus and Belk hand-tailored
Suits made in the Season’s Newest Patterns
and Materials at

$25.00, $29.50, $35.00, and $39.50

NEW FELT HATS :
New Fall Hatsin Snappy Shapes and Patterns
$2.95, $3.95, $4.95, and $7.00

MEN’S DRESS SHIRTS

Men’s fine dress shirts made of best grade
Percal and Madras, made with and without

collars. °
98c, $1.50, and $2.00
_ MEN’S TIES

Silk and Knit Ties, new shapes and beautiful

colors.
48c, 75c, 98c, and $1.50
MEN’S UNDERWEAR

Men’s Nainsook unionsuits, all sizes
A8c, 63c, 98c

Men’s medium weight unionsuits

98c, $1.25, $1.50
MEN’S HOSIERY

Men’s lisle hose, all the leading colors

25c and 35c
48c, 85c, $1.00

ments smite my noodle. After. going for
25 yards, I reached the open square. There

‘gether, the entire body swaying with each

thetic group—some were weeping, many were
| bloody and badly bruised all having barely

“There was a slight lull, and some of us

| Then I ran back to the building where I
had almost been smashed, helped some people

then my camera instinct urged me to get on
top and crawl under the ruins to see how
{badly my Graflex camera, which I- had been
forced to abandon in my dash for safety,
had been squashed. When I did get under-

|other shake had come at that moment, I saw
/my camera and Mah Jong set still intact
iin the only spot in the whole building where
jthey would have been spared. I grabbed
|them and was out in a flash. |

“Just outside in a building close by I saw |
a family trying to get out a baby who was
crying. I snapped a picture of the group
and put my camera down to help these peo-
|ple, and just as I did so, another qauke
| came and the building tumbled. Those inside
were no more able to call for help.

“I bandaged typ some wounds and helped
here and there but noticed then that the
people. all. about were hastening away. I
looked around and in every direction I saw
great fires being blown and fanned by a
very strong wind, and every few seconds
I could hear boom! boom! asa big oil tank

j Men’s silk sox

