Four In

A Row

THEDAVI

SONIAN

Let’s Sweep
The State

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. X

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 8, 1923

No. 15

DAVIDSON MINSTRELS SLATED
FOR TRIP THROUGH CAROLINAS

Sultan of Sarawak to Present
High Order of Minstrelsy

JOY NOW REIGNS SUPREME

Converse and Greenville Wom-
an’s College on Docket

By H. M. WHITE

Owing to the inclemency of the Davidson
weather, the Sultan of Sarawak has de-
cided to take his harem and retinue South
for. the winter. Not content with their sec-
ond tremendous success in Shearer Hall, the
Wildcat Minstrels will start on a grand tour
of conquest southward, leaving Davidson
Wednesday the 14th. The Dramatic Club
on this trip will visit Converse College on
the 15th, Gastonia on the 16th and Charlotte
on the 17th.

Though it may seem an impossibility, yet
it is a fact that the Dramatic Club now has
a better performance than its original stun-
ning extravaganza. The show which has
already surpassed all expectation and has
been considered by many of sane judgment,
as the acme of perfection, has been materi-
ally improved’/upon. Various new songs
have been added to the list, and Okey Alli-
son, the Sultan, has a solo which is entirely
novel. As fetching as the first show was,
with its store of merriment and fun,” for
fear of being “egged out,” the jesters have
supplied themselves with quite a new line
of jokes. The greatest improvement, how-
ever, of which the troupe can boast, is the en-
listment of the Wildcat Five, the orchestra
which jazzes so praiseworthy on all occa-
sions. To the personnel of the Royal Mu-
sicians who played in the first show, has
been added R. Q. M. Seago. Johnnie Adams’
name also been deleted from the role be-
cause of basket-ball, but his place will. be
ably filled by Watt McCain.

Prof. E. J. Erwin, who has borne the
brunt of the labor in working up the minstrel
will go in the capacity of navigator of the
expedition, and it is hoped by all those in
his classes that he will thoroughly enjoy his
vacation.

Considerable new scenery has been manu-
factured, which together with the old scen-
ery, and the S. S. Sazaphonia’s life boat will
be carried as hand baggage, by the Sultan

“Said His crew when they embark on their
c red Pullman.

e inhabitants of Spartanburg, S. C., will
(Continued on Page 5)
T).

COLORED SONGBIRDS

The Junior Class has made arrange-
ments to have a troupe of ten or
twelve men from Biddle University,
or Johnson C. Smith University, as it
is now called, here Friday night, Feb-
ruary 9th. Beginning at 7:30 o'clock
these men will give a varied concert
in Shearer Hall, lasting an hour and
a half.

Those who were fortunate- enough
to hear the quintet at its recent ap-
pearance before the “Y” will remem-
ber the close harmony rendered and
will no doubt gladly welcome this op-
portunity of again hearing them.

In addition to the many famous
negro ballads the troupe will bring
several musical instruments with them
which assures the audience of a well-
rounded program of entertainment.

An admission fee of 25 cents will
be charged and the proceeds will go
towards the payment of certain items
included in the entertainment plan for
Junior Week.

VESPER SERVICES CONDUCTED
BY INSPIRATIONAL SPEAKERS

Meetings During Term Exams
Well Planned and Well Re-
ceived—Good Speakers

By A. Y. BOWIE

Shearer Hall has been the scene of three
inspiring and uplifting Y. M. C. A. services
since the last issue of ‘THE DAvipsONIAN.

The first of these meetings, held on Jan-
uary 21, was addressed by Rev. Tom Gilles-
pie of Gastonia. Doctor Gillespie presented
in his own forceful manner, the story of a
“A Modern Prodigal.” Taking his text
from the Bible account of the prodigal son,
he drew a striking parallelism in the life of
that prodigal with a prodigal of today. He
told of leaving his home in Kentucky, where
he had been reared by Christian parents, to
go out into life for himself, forgetting his
childhood habits and customs and heedless of
his mother’s prayers, he got on the wrong
road, and was going the way to destruction.
While in such a condition he was approached
by a young ministerial student, who invited
him to a neighborhood prayer meeting. At
first he refused to go, but finally consented,
and there found again the God he had for-
gotten, and turned back to Him. The
speaker ended his talk with an earnest plea
for those who had wandered away to turn
back and begin over the Christian life.
~eMr. J.B. Ivey, a prominent business man
and layman of Charlotte, was the speaker at
the service held January 28. Mr. Ivey spoke
of the qualities a man must have in order to
be a true success in life. He spoke of the
late John Wanamaker, the prince of business
men, whose great success was due, not only
to his high moral standards of character, but
above all, to his religion, He improved up-
on his hearers the importance of Christianity
in business if a man would be a true success.

Rey. A. W. Crawford, chairman of Sy-
nod’s committee on home missions, was the
inspiring speaker for the meeting held last
Sunday, February 4.

Vic Brown led the singing of the evening,
while Wallis Purdy and R. G. White fur-
nished the instrumental music. Layton
Fraser presided and introduced the speaker.

(Continued on Page 5)
Dp —

STANDARDIZATION OF
CLASS RING PASSES
STUDENT BODY

A standard college ring was selected by
the Junior Class last Saturday morning and
it has been adopted by the Sophomore Class
and the student body. In the future all class
rings will be of the same design except for
the changes in the numerals. The adoption
of this ring marks the completion of the
work of the Junior Class to fix a standard
college ring. The college authorities have
co-operated with the student committee in
an effort to make this ring permanent.

The ring itself is well worthy of the selec-
tion. It will be made out of 10 karat gold
and the setting will be a large ruby. On
one side of the stone will be the college seal
together with a Wildcat climbing upon it.
The date of the founding of the college,
1837, will also be placed there. On the
other side of the ruby the class numerals
will be placed. Corresponding to the seal
on the other side, there will be a circle con-
taining the degree course, A.B, or B.S. The
Wildcat feature will also be placed on this
side of the ring.

The design selected was submitted by
Chas. H. Elliott & Co., the largest firm in
the country dealing in college jewelry. They
will send the stones, already cut, to David-
son to permit individual selection. The color
of the gold, also, will be according to per-
sonal preference. The price of the ring will
be about $15.50 and the delivery will be
sometime around the first of May.

OFF WITH A FLYING START

COACH MONK YOUNGER,
A Scrapping Wildcat

FORMER DAVIDSON ATHLETE
WILL GUIDE RED AND BLACK

Coach Grey Has Worthy Suc-
cessor in V. P. I.

Man

By CHALMERS McILWAINE

Dr. J. M. Douglas, graduate manager, has
officially announced that Wm. Lee Younger,
now head coach of basket-ball and baseball
and assistant coach of football at the Vir-
ginia Polytechnic Institute has accepted the
position of head coach at Davidson for the
coming year. Coach Younger reports Sep-
tember 1 to take up the work of whipping
a formidable eleven into shape.

Since the fall of 1914 the policy of having
alumni coaches has been followed at David-
son and has proved highly satisfactory. In
commenting on the selection of Younger as
coach, Doctor Douglas said: “Younger, a
former Davidson man and a star athlete, is
acquainted with conditions here and the
ideals for which the college stands. He has
had a remarkably successful coaching career
at Hampren-Sidney and V. P. I. and the
members of the Athletic Council feel that
he will continue his success at Davidson and
develop winning teams for his Alma Mater.”

Coach Monk Younger is the third protege
of Bill Fetzer’s to coach the Red and Black
football teams. When Fetzerleft—David-
son “Pete” Crayton, former Davidson end,
succeeded him and directed Davidson teams
during 1918-1919. “Wooly” Grey, all-South-
ern guard in 1917, then took the helm and
for three years has piloted the Red and
Black. With the passing of Coach Grey,
Younger, one of the greatest football ends
and all-round athletes ever at Davidson,
<. (Continued on Page 2) .

PHl BETA KAPPA WILL TAKE
FIVE PROMINENT STUDENTS

Installation Date Definitely Set
and Plans Completed

MANY ALUMNI MEMBERS

President Chase of U. N. C. Will
Officiate at Service

By AL LAKE

Again the installation of the Davidson
Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa has been post-
poned, but a definite date has been set for
ceremony. On account of a meeting of the
Virginia Association of Colleges at the time
set it was found to be impossible to secure
the speakers desired, and Thursday, March
1, is the time at which Davidson will receive
her charter.

President H. W. Chase, of the University
of North Carolina, will officially present the
charter. Oscar M. Voorhees, secretary of
the United Chapters of Phi Beta Kappa is
also expected to be present. Invitations, will
be sent to all chapters in nearby States, in-
viting them send representatives

The charter members of the N. C. Gamma
will be Dr. W. J. Martin, president David-
son College; Prof. E. F. Shewmake, Prof.
W. H. Porter and Prof. W. W. Woods. In
the fraternity the members are divided into
three classes: Alumni, honorary and mem-
bers in course, the latter being students.
The alumni of the Davidson chapter were
chosen from the honor men of their classes
and on the basis of their success since leav-
ing college. Following is a list of those who
will be initiated as alumni:

Hon, F. B. McDowell............... ++ 69
Dr, C. R. Harding.........sseccseseees "80
Prof. A. C. McIntosh.............0s000 81
De, J.:P. Monroe......cccessecvcoes +» 182

Dre EE W;7Siitiths.n.6 ssc cnccscccceceece "82
Mr. William Mack...........eesseveeee "83

Prof. W. R. Gray.........seecreceveces "84
Prof. J. A. McLauchlin..... peut aHbat-!/
Judge W. H. Baker...... Re enenat ie BB
Prof. J. A. Tillinghast............ Aaoodt)|
Prof. J. B. Wharey..........+0000 seaee
DP Wil PliNRlOciisscsesecscess shee o0dt}

Dr. C. M. Richards...........sseeeeeees 92
Dr. T. W. Lingle............ Ra vaeniets 93
Dr. J. L. Douglas..
Dr. M. E. Sentelle...........s.eeeeee unt.

(Continued on page 4)
T).

LOCAL MEN INSTALL
CHAPTER GS E AT
JOHNS HOPKINS

On the night of Monday, January 29, 1923,
the Gamma Alpha Chapter of the Gamma
Sigma Chapter of the Gamma Sigma Ep-
silon Chemical Fraternity was installed at
Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md.
The initiation and installation, followed by a
delightful banquet, took place at the South-
ern Hotel. Installing officers included L. P.
Good, O. J. Thies and M. R. Doubles, as-
sisted by J. P. Price and O. H. Browne,
of the N. C. State Chapter. ;

The charter members who were initiated
and to whom the rites of the order were
disclosed included: C. E. Greider, B.S. '20;
Washburn, M.S. ’21, University of Iowa;
Sherlock Swann, B.S. ’22, Princeton; A. W.
Dearing, B.S. ’21, V. M. I.; A. F. Barrier,
B.S. ’21, Roanoke; G. D. Palmer, B.S.,’21,

Clemson; and also O. H. Browne, B.S. ’21,

N. C. State, by transfer from the Alpha
Beta Chapter.
The fraternity was founded at Davidson
College on January 29 1920, by L. P. Good,
(Continued on Page 3)

FIRST GAME—CHARLOTTE

The Davidson Wildcats gained a flying
start on the 1923 season when they turned
in a 32-29 victory in the first game with the
Charlotte “Y.” Charlotte had played several
games and were expected to be more
seasoned than the Wildcats, but despite that
fact the Red and Black five took the first
decision that they have been able to gain
from the “Y” squad in the Queen City for
several years.

Crawford, last year’s leader, was out of
the game and Warhoss Mauze had an in-
jured hand but it was clear that the Wild-
cats had a decided edge, crippled as they
were. The battle was hotly contested, but
at times was more sccrap than basket-ball,

Charlotte opened up with a rush and had
a lead of several baskets before the Red and
Black machine could get started. As soon
as Red Laird got his eye on the basket, how-
ever, the Wildcats took the lead that they
managed to maintain throughout. The first
half ended 15-11,

In the second stanza both teams played
better ball and the points were piled up in
quick succession. Laird was still on the
rampage and ran up his total to seven field
goals, while Warhoss caged a couple of
pretty ones that put the game on ice. The
cogs on the Wildcat cage machine were just
getting oiled up when the whistle put an end
to the contest.

Every man of the Fighting Devils played
a great game. Red Laird and Mauze couldn't
be stopped. They accounted for most of the
Davidsonians baskets. For Charlotte Dozier
and Smith were high point men with eight
counters apiece. Line-up:

DAVIDSON (32) CHARLOTTE (29)

Beall (0).......... R. F.........Moore (4)
Laird (14)......... L. F.........Smith (9)
Mauze (12)........ C......Cuthbertson (0)
Davis (2).......... R. G........Dozier (8)
Boggs (2)......... L. G...Cunningham (6)

Subs—(Davidson) Mallory (4) for Beall,
Sappenfield for Laird, McConnell (2) for
Davis, DeArmond for Boggs. Charlotte—
Marvel for Moore, Yates (2) for Cuthbert-
son, Vaughn for Dozier.

Referee: Faul.

Scorer: Mauze.

SECOND GAME—
CHARLOTTE

In the initial game of the season on their
home court, the Davidson Wildcats defeated
(Continued on Page 6)

T).

ASSISTANT MANAGERS

At a recent meeting of the student
body assistant managers were elected
for the basket-ball season of 1923.
Bradford and J. I. Smith were elected
on the second ballot. They will serve
during the current season, after which
one of them will be elected to be the
manager for the next season.

Bradford has already served as as-
sistant football manager during the
past season so he is well qualified for ©
the position. While Smith has never
had any experience along this line he
is a man well fitted for the duties as-
signed to him.

These men will assume their new
duties at once as helpers to J. M.
Adams, the manager. These men will
manage the scrub trips and help the
manager with the games in the Hill.

The other men Hominated for the
office included Keels, C. V. Brown,
Heston, Allison and McCrary.

MAKE

THIS

THE

BEST

TERM
