The DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’1
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing

Editor by 7:00

p. m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.
EDITORIAL STAFF
L. D. ELKINS, Editor-in-Chief.
W. Z. BRADFORD, Managing Editor. 3 .
C. M. S: McILWAINE, Asst. M’n’g’g Editor W. M. COX 2... es eeeeeeeeee Associate Editor
H. B.. PRICE...... Asst. anaging Editor A. C. WILDMAN.. -Associate Editor
W. F. GALLOWAY ....-... thetic Editor J. AS LAKE. ..s0 0s ‘Associate Editor
W. M. HES Peanut Parcher Edito: 0. J. ALLISON ... .--Alumni Editor

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 26, 1923

333223533239 SSSSSORESMCSESSESSSSSESSTSSSSSSS35 55552353 S35352 3:
That old saying that “Every old tub has

to stand on its own bottom” has decidedly |

“more truth than poetry in it.” The Cau- |

casian race since the remotest history has|

been noted for its { r by virtue of the,

ability this race has for “holding her own.” |

But evidently these old sot Scotch-Irish and |-

dilatory Presbyterians have not fully real- |

ized this characteristic trait of their own. Rs

The sad part of the matter comes when we | Once upon a midnight dreary fs

have to give the essence of pure African- While he sat and called her “Dearie,”

ism the credit for taking advantage of the On a sofa made for one but holding two;

things given them. “They have a bottom” | While they nodded, nodded, nearly napping

and what's more they have something to put | Suddenly there came a tapping,

lit on. For instance Biddle University has a| As of some one gently rapping

|chain of sidewalks that puts Dayidson to| Rapping at the parlor door.

shame and by this fact alone if an oppor- |”! is my father, dear,” she muttered,

tunity ever ‘arose whereby Davidson could | Only this and nothing more.

trade with Biddle, take the man that was | What cared he for her relations,

responsible for the walks. being there first, | He was full of exclamations, :

then “get the walks.” When old Jupiter Such as “Dearie, does oo love oo dearie

| Pluvius turns loose part of his elements at | more ?” : oN

| Davidson, and by the way he does it quite But her father tired of waiting,

often ,one becomes perturbed for fear the Waiting, frowning, aggravating,

“gospel shop” will float away. Argue all Opened wide the parlor door.

COLUMN
oa

R. L. PRICE, Business Manager ss
WATT McCAIN......00- Circulation Manager” 2, J. STORY......000003 Subscription Manager
L. MclLEAN W. Be CROMWELL G. A. McCLAIN
RO BRIGGS fee J. A. THOMPSON
REPORTERS’ CLUB
WALTHALL, D. B., Pres. CALHOUN, M. P. MONK, C. F.
NARTON, D. B,, V-Pres. EARNEST, J. R. POMEROY, W. L.
PATTON, J. _H., Sec’y-Treas. GREEN, J. ‘L. ROGERS, G. D.
ALLISON, 0. i HURD, A) M. SELSER, 3. M.
AUSTIN, {TAC McMILLAN, J. A SMITH, 'B. H.
BEALL, McP. S. MILTON, W. E. STORY, FE. J.
BOWIE, A. Y. MOFFETT, A. N WU, 1. M.
BROWN, W. P. MOORE, W. H. WILLIAMS, To M.

An anthology of the best short stories written within North Carolina col-;

legiate circles during the past year was authorized to be published by the North

Carolina Collegiate Press Association, in session at Queens College last week. |

In the Sahara of Bosart there is an element at work which would see the
Southland redeemed in the eyes of the Baltimore critic. We do not mean
that we accept the appellation handed out in Prejudices—but even he should
be convinced that the Southerner has a literary taste and‘®t capacity for literary
creation.

We trust that the North Carolina anthology will be of such merit that an
autographed copy may be sent Mr. Menchen, and that he may see a refreshing

spot in his Southern desert.
T).

PASS IN REVIEW

In a period when American college education is passing in review before the |

judging stand, wherein are assembled the critical minds of the world, there
is heaped upon the shoulders of the college student a solemn burden. Only
an unfaltering courage to face the censure of public opinion, arid-a willing-
ness to place the shoulder to.the wheel will save the college system of the na- |
tion from a verdict that bids fair to lodge it in 2 truly vexatious dilemma.

The stinging criticism that the college student is “notoriously snobbish,
hero-worshipping, and intolerant of eccentricity” strikes at the heart of the
situation and presents an argument of which the student can not fail to take
due notice.

It is sadly true that the colleges, under the strain of widened curriculums, |
increased enrollments and a policy of ever-extending local and public actiyity, |
are allowing themselves to drift into the treacherous current of pretentious- |
ness. An educational structure builded upon the unstable sands of social ex- |
clusiveness and false pride is as sure to fall into ruin aS was a Napoleanic |
kingdom builded upon a false ambition. It can not be true that the colleges |
have totally disregarded the acquisition of knowledge, however. Human}
nature is permeated with a constant desire for educational research, Mankind |
naturally searches for knowledge; and who can deny that the college student |
is in the front rank in this crusade for learning? He constitutes the leading |
element of the scholarly advance, but, according to critical observers, he stands |
altogether too ready to condescendingly show to humanity the error of its way |
and the faults of its knowledge.

Hand-in-hand with present day knowledge must go those qualities of char-
acter which will create in man a friendly, forbearing, kind and charitable
personality.

It rests largely with the students themselves whether American college
life be termed a mere “pleasant interlude” or whether it be regarded as an
eminent achievement.

Nothing lends to the college man that “snobbish” appearance more than
a pretended wisdom. An attitude of educational perfection is~a~ defective
stone in the foundation of ultimate success and is sure to set it toppling.

Why glory in an outward show, a mere surface glamour of wisdom! It
is the egotistical nature of the human race to take pleasure in seeming wise. |
The student feels that his self respect has undergone a disgraceful blasphemy
if he is counted among the universally ignérant. He readily admits the world
in general to be ignorant, but invariably he fails to recognize himself as a mem- |
ber of that universal body.

A free, frank confession of ignorance and a high regard for the acquisition
of knowledge is a necessary step toward the obliteration of the criticism of
“foppishness and snobbishness.” A clean-cut acknowledgment of a lack of
learning makes room for knowledge . A sufficiently wise man is irresponsive
to wisdom, but an ignorant man, with a willingress to learn, has the universe
at his feet as a.source of knowledge. % ‘

“True it is that total ignorance is disgrace, but the open-hearted admission
of ignorance is far from such. It takes the form of a profound virtue when
there is a desire to remedy the evil,

If the college student faces squarely the stern censure of public opinion with
a free acknowledgement of his membership in the universal order of ignor-
ance and a mind receptive and alert, he then raises himself to the rank-of
peer, and is the possessor of a knowledge in reality, rather than in pretense.

The insulting criticism flung at the college man is readily accepted by the
public in general; the matter is not weighed for its true value. He is branded
and.the sentence is imposed without a semblance of a trial.

As the collegian passes the judging stand, he is helpless to plead his cause
save by his ms and his attitudes, He is not given the opportunity of se-

_ curing ‘counsel or of self-explanation; he has no means of defense, save an

honest display of virtue.
He fights against odds, but he must fight with a true Wildcat determination.
More honor for the victory against odds.
7 Soe D—
men who are coming to Davidson next year? Are
to secure men.who can serve the college on the’ athletic
‘erm fe venke publications, inthe Y..M..C..A.,.and a
ison Li ‘

you thinking! of the
g your

‘sons of

you please about keeping “‘the sons of Dav- Ah, ’tis well will he remember

jidson” in a unified spirit of good humor. | That cold night in bleak December

| Well enough! But we have already been As he flew out twenty paces from the door.
|called “infants in swaddling clothes” and on And for life he will be branded

| these grounds how do you expect to keep Where her father’s boot had landed.

\'em dry without the necessary provisions— Quoth the raven, “Nevermore.”

well, sidewalks,

—Rainy Day. “Mister,” began the seedy looking man,

| “T haven’t any home, and—”
J MMAONOUAGDENOONDONGNOAAGOOGDEGNOONEOUEAUNGNNNNONGONOGUONOOONDONNOONONOGIOOIOOT = : y i

| “No taxes to pay!” interrupted the man
THE HOT BOX

addressed. “No coal bills. No worry lest
HMMM te HAdlord raise the rent. Permit me to
congratulate you.
It is indeed delightful to learn that Ken-
jneth Menzies is improving in his golf. He

“I have no job, and—”

“Lucky chap! No danger of getting
says he made a fortyfour the other day— jireq,”
better luck to you on the second hole, Ken.

“But I’m serious, mister. I have
| money, and—”

We are sorry to learn that Buck Cater “No temptation to spend it foolishly on
while struggling with a piece of steak at ablebodied beggars. Why, you're the very
|his boarding house the other day broke out) child of fortune. Good-day !”—Ew,
his tooth, P. S. That’s not a joke, either,
so he says.

Fresh Smith: Say that last ball you drove
nearly hit me in the head. Why don’t you
‘holler “fore”?

Frank Wildman:

Fresh: That's

no

waste energy?

Well, I yelled thrice.

exactly it, you oughta The Code of a Good Sport

yelled “fore”. 1. Thou shalt not quit.
z 2. ‘Thou shalt not alibi.

Paul Story came up to what everybody 3. Thou shalt not gloat over winning.
was expecting when he refused to eat any-| 4. Thou shalt not be a rotten loser.
thing but peanuts at the Reporter’s Club 5. Thou shalt not take unfair advantage.
feed. Too bad there wasn’t a tree handy 6. Thou shalt ot ask odds thou art un-

for him to throw cocoanuts out of. willing to give.
7. Thou shalt always be ready to give
Those ‘High School” boys certainly pulled , thine opponent the shade.
off a shocking occasion in Chapel the other
morning. As Dr. Ogden said: “Boys will ponent, nor overestimate thyself.

ys.” 9. Remember that the game is the thing,
CMNHIHITETHEHAEATEAEANENNTEMMNMMMM 224 that he who thinketh otherwise is a

= i mucker and no true sportsman.
What’s Doing 10. Honor the game thou playest, for he
Thursday, April 26th.

who playeth the game straight and hard
3:30 P. M.—Davidson vs, Clemson at

wins even when he loses.
—American Magazine.

Clemson, S. C. (baseball).
3:30 P. M.—Davidson vs. Union Sem-

inary at Richmond (tennis).
7:15 P. M.—Eu. Society.
7:30 P. M.—Phi. Society.

Friday, April 27th.

3:30 P. M.—Furman vs. Davidson at
Greenville, S. C. (baseball).
3:30 P. M.—University of Va. vs.

The melancholy days-are here
They worry me like the dickens;

It’s too darn cold for B. V. D.’s,
And too darn hot for thick ’uns.

Sweet Daddy!

He—Every time I kiss you it tends
make me a better man.

to

Cen at Charlottesville, Va. | She—O-oh, you angel!
8:00 P. M.—Davidson vs. Trinity at 3 | SrbePeR
Davidson (debate). area
10:00 P. M.—Reporters Club. I Will!
Saturday, April 28th. I will start anew this morning with a higher,

fairer creed ;
T will cease to stand complaining of my
ruthless neighbors greed;
‘I will cease to sit repining while my duty’s
call is clear, ;
|1 will waste no moment whining and my
heart shall know no fear.

3:30 P. M.—Triple track meet, Elon,
Guilford and Davidson at Davidson.
7:30 P. M.—Movies—Robin Hood—
at Gym.
Sunday, April 29th.
300 A. M.—Volunteer Band.
A. M.—Ministerial Band.
A. M.—Church Services.

10
10:00 ; ;
11:00 iI will look sometimes about me for the
|

1:15 P. M.—Christian Endeavor Class. hinge that vinerie: onalbes

Pe Ne hig ‘I will search for hidden beauti

6:15 P. M—“Y” Service. | ae fried) beauties that elude
7:30 P. M.—Ewvening Worship. the grumbler’s gaze

I will try to find contentment in the paths
that I must tread,

I will cease to have resentment when another
moves ahead.

Monday, April 30th.
Baseball team leaves on state trip.
Tueeday, May 1st.

3:30 P. M.—State vs. Davidson at

Raleigh (baseball).
7:30 P. M.—Pandeinic Society. _
8:00 P. M.—Metrophilian Society.

I will not be swayed by envy when my
rival’s strength is shown;
I will not deny his merit, but I'll strive to

Wednesday, May 2nd. Prove my own; ~
3:30 P. M.—Trinity vs. Davidson at 3/I will try to see the beauty spread before me,
Durham (baseball). rain or shine—
9:00. P.-M.—Bible Classes. -{1 will cease to preach your duty and be more

== MANOR UENAESAELOAEALAESELSIERAOELLOENLE ELLE GERURLELLLLEELUEUEUUELUUELESOEOAEAEAEEUUOEEOEUEAOEOEOEUOEEASAALUEEGAG ALOE CULEOREEOOLUEEUEUAAEUALAULAL

‘concerned with mine. Es.

Tt takes 65 muscles of the face to make a |
frown and 13 to produce a smile. Why!

8, Thou shalt not underestimate an op- |

DAVIDSON FIVE
YEARS AGO

| Davidson wins her second debate of the
lyear by defeating Roanoke College. The
| subject’ for the debate was Resolved, That
the Federal Government should permanent-
ly own and operate all interstate Railroads i
the United States. The men upholding the
| affirmative for Davidson were R. U. Coursar
land G. C. Bellingrath. As usual these men
|put forth their best efforts for the “honor
lof old Davidson.”

' Last Saturday at the Quadrangular meet
lheld at Grant Field, Atlanta, Georgia, the
| Wildcats came in strong for second place,
|doubling the score of Sewanee, who had
\third place. ‘Tech entered 15 men, Sewanee
\9, Davidson 5, Mississippi A. and M. 1. Tech
took first place in seven events, Davidson in
ifive events, Mississippi A. and M. in the
pole vault, while Sewanee was not able to
take first place in any event. Gray of Dav-
\idson was able to show that it took more
‘than talk to win in the weights and added
two first places in Davidson’s score in the
shot put and discus. McQueen was in his
usual good form for high jumping and took
\first place in this event. The final score
|was Tech 62; Davidson 33.

The students will be sorry to note that
Ralph Flowers has just withdrawn from col-
lege. His eyes have been troubling him for
quite a while and he is following the Doc-
tor’s advice in giving them a rest. This
statement will no doubt startle some of his
football opponents of last season, who, from
experience, learned that he was always able
to pick a hole in their line and use it to his
advantage. Flowers is Davidson’s best ath-
lete and we are counting on having him with
us again next year.

Our service flag has been taken from the
dust of the gym and now flies in front of
Chambers where all can see the evidence of
our patriotism.
| Norman Johnson, '15, will speak to the Y.
M. C. A. Thursday night in Shearer Hall.
A number of the students know him per-

sonally and all have heard of his ability as a ¢

speaker. He makes his trip from Union

| Seminary especially to speak to the Davidson
‘students and to have personal interviews
| with any who may desire such. He will also
|be on the Hill Sunday and will address the
Y. M. C. A. Sunday evening.

‘COLLEGIATE EDITORS.
_ GUESTS OF QUEENS BLUES

(Continued from Page 1)

giate Press Association’ by Wan Grant,
founder of the association, the delegates
were entertained by Queens College at an in-
formal reception in Burwell Hall.

Friday morning addresses were made by
T. C. Neal of the Charlotte Observer staff
lon Advertising; L. D. Elkins, of the David-
ison College Magazine, on The Future of
| the College Magazine; W. F. Cash, of the
Old Gold and Black and J. R. Killian, of
the Trinity Chronicle on Editorial Policy of
College Publications.

Friday afternoon the program consisted
of an automobile ride thru Charlotte fol-
| towed by a tour through the plant of the
| Charlotte Observer. An elaborate banquet
| was served to the delegates Friday night
in the Queens College dining hall.
| The Davenport Weekly Record was ad-
| mitted to membership in the association.
| After much discussion between Greensboro
| College and Trinity it was decided that the
j next convention would be held in Durham
| with Trinity as the host.

The following delegates attended the con-
jvention: Ruth Hadley and Jessie Thomp-
|son, of Greensboro College for Women;
|Fannie Paul, Frances Haywood, Frances
| Cherry and Alice Lowe, of Meredith; Mary
peteniey, of Guilford; Nell Craig and Lena
| Smith, of N. C. C. W.; J. R. Killian and
| George Allen, of Trinity; Blanche Caveness
jand Mary Bulla, of Davenport; Gladys Mor-
gan and Victor Shuford, of Lenoir; W. B.
Terrell and S. M, Lyman, of Elon; L. E.
| Raper and Alvin M. Fountain, of N. C.
| State; Barclay Walthall, W. Z. Bradford,
'Randolph Jones, and L. D. Elkins, of Dav-
:idson ; R. S, Pickens, of North Carolina-Un-
| iversity ; Marion Cooper and Hazel Ste-
|phenson, of Salem; W. G. Cash and J. G.
| Whitaker, of Wake Forest; Sarah Thomas,
Eloise Brady and Anne Parks Moore, of
Queens.

_

on the grits.”

eee (at.the trough). “Ducks

.
