_EME

RAYIRSONAAN, , REBRUARY ad

1923

ati

hood REEPERARY NEWS_

rt

DOCTOR Loti MCS

at anit fies Melbicd 1 sthidenantts year; 1 Déetbr
Hood: hhy offereti his course:if business: /psy*
chology and salesmanship. (Dhis\jis one:/of
tite most practical-courses: offered iat David-
kn forl tHosewWhoilintend itd: make medicine,
enginedting,! or! business: their future! profes:
BoM Jeol yh ted? etanes off
“Mithd eoubse!Wielades Stich Hhings'ae thé best
Ror df Advertisiti¢! titettidds’ of catchitig and
holding® the attelition, bd! other’ things of tike
inpertance’ Wwiith cofitt! up’ in! the everyday
life ‘bY leh Blishneéss! ini,’ “Besidey teaming
tHe: britici {es Of Sidvertising’ anid’ @hleshrratis
ship, the edurse! aspires! to” Pender’ nidre ebt:
tetety ‘deeviddable, 'Within 'd'putticular! field,
the adeeptedl tacts; ‘laws! ate ‘tetliods "resus
tig’ Prob the! etpetlineltat’ study. of! Huntin
natite anh’ Hhuiitin ‘behavior, Hount iood. vst
Psychology Dgevags! the ‘coutsé' is ealled)
bomied tHe second’ ‘period loft Mmuuestay, THurs-
day ‘and ‘Saturday.’ “Phe course iS very'pracl
tital!tn every! detilil ‘dnd Ht! 14 Hiipet that at
wil? be fad a 'pdtmanent part! int 4He! curd
Pict y Theré?! art! about’ twetity!"ih the
élass!! at’ present” ‘several additicts having
been made since the class WAS! Airst Started
after’ the éXathitidtionis. yotatod ters

no On| einai

OPT

DR WARREN SPEAKS:""
TON HISTORY, Abs

iaDeaAN ee ae iof ‘Wiora’ Mac-
donald College) for! Women, (gaveiaivéry in-
teresting! ldcture dni modern! Scotland :toi the
members) 6f ‘the /olass in:;Moderi Eurpoean
History! last Saturday morning) id the history
room. His talk concérned:itseff mainly with
political! and economic Soma now ekxist-
ing’in) Scotland. 9) ti) ols tos tog

‘'Doetor':Vardell's! seperti divless Airst
hand, since last summer ‘he;waS preseht: in
that country at the placing of a memorial
ae on ‘the Island‘ of Skye? © This ‘tabl

as ere in ft ‘ cdonald,
fo coal eng! air
through “her ‘assistance’ of* Prince ‘Chartie* th
his escape :fromy, Septland.,) .:|
woThe Scotch people, ;says, Doctor, Vardell,
are; charagterized. by, their .extreme Jayalty
to the;clans,and traditions, They are.aiyery
imaginative people jand hold fast. to, many
high ideals,

(This ,lgeture,on. the Scotts) was Very. imter-
eating, to. Davidson jstudents, most. of whom
rareof, Scotch: or Lrish, descent, and: was; very
much appreciated by all, who heard, it.;/Doc-
tor Vardell is a man of high ability and has
done wonderful work at the callege of which
che (is, presidents j)u too? doi
sity al” up Hh! b

“Sys otmonoscl 4 sant? 5 toue

NEW rae
OFFICERS INSTALLED

The meeting of the Eumenean Society last
Thursday night was characterized by two
features: The regular program and the in-
stallation of the third term officers. Dis-
cussing the matter of the settlement of rail-
road strikes were: Affirmative—Hillhouse
and Moss; negative—Rogers and Ramsay.
The decision of the judges was in favor of
the affirmative as was also the favor of the
house. Mr. R. R. Jones gave a most inter-

ae 48

to inl

ao yr ool oily tame

What’s Doing

THURSDAY, FEB. 8
Eu Society, 7:00 p. m.
Phi Society, 7:00 p. m.
Wildcats vs. Wofford, 8:00 p. m.

FRIDAY, FEB. 9
Biddle Glee Club, 7:30 p. m.

‘SATURDAY, FEB. 10
Wildcats vs. Furman (pending).
Gloria Swanson in “My American

Wife.”

SUNDAY, FEB. 11
Volunteer Band, 10:00 a. m.
Ministerial Band, 10:00 a. m.
Christian Endeavor Training Class,

1:00 p. m.
Sunday School, 3:30 p. m.
“Yy” Service; 6:15 p. m.

TUESDAY, FEB. 13
Wildcats vs. N.C. State, at Raleigh:
Metropilian Society, 6:45 p. m,
Pandemic Society, 7:15 p. m.
Meeting of Aesculopian Club, 10.00

m.
WEDNESDAY, FEB. 14
Wildcats vs. Wake Forest, at Wake
Forest.
Bible Classes, 9:00 p. m.

esting and fiery, as*Well as witty oration,

ry | in Hs his SUR OR'S great Chinese +

statesman ‘and
After this Py By pacts took
place.’ MrT iting a
dent ‘was Maeda he rostrem -by"\N.
Patte erson,-the tetiring president. D. H. a
den received from: Mr- Fraser his allegiance
to the athe s taok their
places: pes TES ana By ce Bhihouse:
stretary| J.) Ly Green; tand B.H. :Biddle,
reviewer. Mr. Fraser made a very: 4ppropri-
ate speech upon! his inauguration) concerning
the duty of ithe society and: its) Sue i

vol titiobe

D.
POLITY CLUB PLANS: '
FOR MANY ' LECTURES

daiive ot beib 9% ' yurbereers
The Invexnationat eaature Chae foryas
it is generally known, the Polity Club, is

looking, forward. to an, unprecedented series |

of activities and. te functioning, on a, Jarger
scale than,has, heretofore | been ; thought pos-
sible. The purpose .ef; the, club is|to study ;
the political and economic conditions of the
world jand, especially, the economic, conditions
of], Durope |that have a hearing, on the United
States.) The work, that jit, has done jis, by, no
means a smalt,one,and it may) well look back
over its past with a just, pride.

fou The. oluh has /been fortunate, in, securing
some of the most competent authoritias on
various subjects;\to speak during the, year.
Aniong: these were: Dr. ‘Thomas, Lingle, who
spoke on the Turkish situation,,andj Myr. E.
B. Shaw, who dealt i with the South) Ameri-
can problem.

Phe tiew members have shown a great deal
of interest);in, the,,work ; andthe entrance
theses swbmitted have been excellent, dealing
in a complete and thorough’ manner with the
subjects covered. As an incentive to this
itis planned ;to ‘compare these theses) at, the
end of, the, year and. a committee of, judges
will! then select; the best and award a, suitable
prize to the author. it

The: International |Relations Chub of Da- |, ),5

vidson is in correspondence with the head-
quarters, of. the) association of j¢lulis,,and_ it
is hopediahd plannedi|through this to secure
a series of) worth»while and. instructive |lec- |
tures by speakers of note, during \the coming |
spring term.

ov) ban baat Rv
god Died ise 4 ; iy

PHI'SOCIETY HOLDS

_ INTERESTING MEETING \,

vegibiusl 3 cil
“it is “Temarkable, how,; members ‘of, the Phi
Sogiety. rallied at the. first, meeting, held after |

the strenuous and slecp-losing period of ex- |!
aminations. Ik indeed shows the spirit and |

loyalty and the high regard that the boys |
hold for the society.

The debate on whether or not the de-|
cisions made by the Labor Board should be|
upheld and enforced by Congress was con- |
tested on the affirmative by A. L. Patterson |
and K. Lewis. Their opponents, C. C. Mc-|
Millan and R. O. Sellars, were unable to|
combat the onslaught made by the affirma- |
tive. _The outstanding argument came tots |
Patterson. Although a first year man he
showed the quality of a veteran. The others
were by no means weak in the defense of
their respective sides. Sellars and Lewis
were appointed in place of absent members.
bers.

The. oration, “Use of Our Talents,” by
R. M. McGirt, was featured by his usual
display of good speaking, clear enunciation,
and scattered throughout with appropriate
gesticular movements.

D.

THE REEL STUFF

This week’s screen attraction is to be|
Gloria Swanson in “My American Wife7”’
Gloria Swanson has never been scen to bet- |
ter advantage in any picture than in “My
American Wife.’ Her role of Natalie)

aba: anew-gowa.- Sos Miss. Swanson, especi:
hlly to | az
ails of RECO PEO
Style-creation: “fhere-are-a number of pearl:
on the sowilfodtiac Huet AI FRES O00.
red
i: “Phere! lived a Knight, whe knighthood

‘1 was in flower,

Who aad alike the siltty, ard ‘and tte

» bower.” ti

Leigh Hunt's fuattvblk eatin dusiva
above, ‘furnished! the title for! one ofthe
finest Jroyal/ romances) in history; which was
put onthe screen at!a cost of over'a million
dollars): Rotting back/the scrolls! of! history

7 au

sprite four hundred “years to the days when

“*Bluffi King Hall” ‘ruled in) “Merrie Ehg-
land tan ‘Amériean)! company has! achieve!
theiacme cinematic: art: “When Knighthood
Was In! Blower’! willbe: shown herein! the ,
latter) part/of!'Mareh!) dt is! a Paramount
directed by Robert: Vigriola, eee Marton
Daviess! reg dali ons

iow Hot ano

MR. SHAW LE

i

LECT URES

‘f Mis “ae aaenaaibnal y. M. .C., A.
worker, delivered, a lecture on South Ameri-
ga, Friday, night, at ;7. o'clock, in Shearer
Hall, Mx. Shaw: spoke frankly, as.an Amer-
ican to Americans, pointing out in a forceful
manner evidences of | our) provincialism and
out, ignorance, of sap ‘America and, its
SRARIE. Mi 14
The aaa tien ‘by making | er his
purpose of: speaking) frankly: “A certain
rubber: company in thé United’ States, he
said, spent! $50,000 in’ printing and in’ teach:
ing! its salesman iSpanish for use'in Brarit,
where: the|\Portugese! latiguage is’ wsed:' A
prominent: Ainerican businegs ‘mat tecently
asked of: ‘him the ‘hame: of: the ‘railroad in
South America, where! the’ continent is’ al-

i i THiS) ‘4 id

ing vital points; of jhterést concerning’ the |

pos pa “WO! hat aire and.on i Pet it at the medi
yOnly th te bas gebeomeg. li dh oct lor and war
this new! The eg cer told of fe | industri: it progress heing more and more ine those insti-

of South America and how this | at etl amas 5 and alsp by those of | rer ap more
ignorandeQQbSQaReR2Amertak ® SAG lente) reHIHE adn | LO Tadra9
told loss to, shuniduidauy boagly and, (einggssj« golf > Thay inafatlasicn: } \ofxshinGiima Alpha
South America is progressing in educa-. Chapter at Johns Hopkins University<on
tion, art and science. One South: sAsmericpn ‘Founders! Day, celebrating the third anni-
university was founded before; tlarvagd.and(versary: foi,jthe fraternity, marks a note-
has been in continuous session since, The worthy epoch in the life of the fraternity,
speaker told) of othéoDeauty) of (the operaand: promises vit ‘iach suvedss in the future.
houses in several South American Cities, Due to a previous engagement, Dr. H.-B:
some Stitphssttty the! Adttopotitin bf! New OA Mekle Was halite’ to latteria DHE! Gnbtalla-
York. He told of the skill of South Ameri- (tion at his Alma Mater as we hoped for, and
can surgeons educated in their own Udterst?! the Hfdedt! chapter cil Prof. O. J. Thies in
ties, citing statments: BF the! Nays’ Brothers his ‘stead, on 7! us
who toured South American hospitals and!

(hd declared they had neVer seen’ finer Werke toads "You Tell iA HA
any white! U4 Aree Mopac eae * "Where can a’man buy a cap “For Hf knee?
Dy. Shaw was born in, Brazil. Me, se-) Or, a key ta the lock. of his: bain? ; Fi 14

cured his; degree. from Wocestet! College, O.
Ne: ‘Sao Paulo, Brazil, he met actor Tingle,
who has Wvihe: there-at the thud) "Mé. Shaw) hat, gems ‘are found! in’ the ‘crown: (ah nib
is engaged in international: ¥. M, C. A. work | head?''

and has traveyletextensively in tha ,Wnited.;, \Wha;tmvels the bridge of his hose?

States and ha lectured, at, AnaNny of the,gol-| Can she'tse,. when shingling the roof of his

Cant his! eyes he alted ‘an: acadeniyy |) Ut i
Recanse: there..are ‘pupils. there ?.: 1AOC

/

th) 1 leges. ne poertpi *“house, pies.
ON’ SOUTH AMERICA tee) J). ; ' Miho: nails on the end of his toes?) 1147
cei LOCAL “MEN INST: ALI, CH: APTE R | Can the crook of his elborw be sent to jail?

(Continued from Pagd VST AT 44 36, ‘had ‘did he do?
A.B, M.A, 1203, ML A. Siske, AB, MA, vf Mow ean, ‘he Sharpen is, shoulder blade? 5; i
"20: andl MER. Doubles, B.S. "22: Since that I'll be Hanged, if I know; 'do ‘you?’ MAL
time chapters have been installed; at; Ns ©, Can he pit-injthe shade of the palm of his
State College, University. of, Florida, ,and hands? reou
Johns. Hopkins University, and at each of ;Or beat on the drum of his ears?

these places the chapt cludes the, honor Hess ve calf oD, his leg eat the corn ot hig
inen of the Meee rea arfd eal a

enjoys the hearty, support of the chemical,’ 4 §0, oe not grow corn on the ear?”
faculty. Ud Oe Elyria: preaniasy
The Grand Couneit i is at present entertain: | D-

immediate! expansion fdlicy of the fraternity’ H Human nature averages With! 'a a ‘pretty hig

and within the near future will affirm Peti- | percentage in the colunm of ‘ ‘common sense.

tions from various Class A institutions in| D.

this vicinity, Tt’ has ‘been’ the aim ‘of the! Responsibility’ dither” takes" a’ than or
fraternity to fit the ‘need ‘and! want’ of thé | breaks | hint. RAL

pil lo biti

|. Ets have faith and show jJit'in'g dar, a

Lil il DESI! ot aD

i thy

Chester affords her abundant opportunities | .

for characterization and the display ofan
extravagant wardrobe.

The scene of this picture is Argentine, the
land of the tango and charming senoritas.
The beautiful city of Buenos Aires, the capi- |
tal of the Argentine Republic, is the locale
of “My American Wife.” '

Miss Swanson in the role of Natalie
Chester, a Kentucky girl with a passion for
racing, has fallen in love with a Spanish
nobleman whom she has met at the races. |
The outcome of. the love affair remains hid-
den up to the final fade out because of the
interesting plot involving the three principal
players.

Three thousand ermines were required to

mark) ne

i ol lt

©

DENIS

mat

Pia PiIrn’s

= Gp

¢, '

(7 54] AMUEL PEPYS says in
S: his diary that CharlesII,

w for all his interest in the

= Royal Society, laughed
uproariously at its members

“for spending their time only in
weighing of air and doing nothing
else since they sat.”

This helps to explain why
Charles has come down to us as
the “merry monarc

The Royal Society was engaged
in important research. It was try-
ing to substitute facts for the
meaningless phrase “nature ab-
hors a vacuum,” which had long
served to explain why water
rushes into a syringe—the com-
monest form of pamp—when the
piston is pulled out.

Denis Papin had as much to do
as anyone with these laughable
activities of the Royal Society.
Papin turned up in London one
day with a cylinder in which a

iston could slide. He boiled water
in the cylinder. The steam gener-
ated pushed the piston out. When
the flame was removed, the steam
General Office

({

YiLfOoyY TOAD)

STEAM CYLINDER

ighed Air—
II Laughed

condensed. A vacuum was formed
and the weight of the outer air
forced the unresisting piston in.

Out of these feisarches evertu-
ally came the steam engine.

London talked of the scandalous
life that King Charles led, and paid
scant attention to such physicists
as Papin, whose work did so much
to change the whole character of
industry.

The study of air and air pumps
has been continued in spite of
Charles’s laughter. In the General
Electric Company’s Researcn
Laboratories, for instance, pumps
have been developed which will ex-
haust all but the last ten-billionth
of an atmosphere in a vessel.

This achievement marks the
beginning of a new kind of chemis-
try—a chemistry that concerns
itself with the effect of forces on
matter in the absence of air, a
chemistry that has already en-
riched the world with invaluable

"improvements in illumination, ra-
. dio communication, and roentgen-

ology.

Electric

Company Schenectady, MY.

&

95-632D

