THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 26, 1923

Rev. Dunbar H. Ogden, D.D., father of
D. H. Ogden, Jr., '23, and pastor of the
Government Street Presbyterian Church of
Mobile, Ala., was a visitor on the campus
last Thursday and Friday.

Doctor Ogden came up from Columbia,
S. C., where he delivered one of the Smythe
Lectures at Columbia Theological Seminary.
The subject of his lecture was “The House
in which the Minister Lives.”

A group of ladies of the congregation
heard Doctor Ogden on “The Women and
Children of Bible Lands.” He also conduct-
ed chapel exercises on Friday morning.

Dr. Ogden and Mrs, Frazier Hood enter-
tained Dr. Ogden while he was here. Dur-
ing his stay at Davidson he motored to
Statesville with Doctor Hood to visit Dr.
C. E. Reynal, all three of whom are alumni
of S. P. U.

The visit of Doctor Ogden to Davidson
was greatly enjoyed, and especially his help-
ful suggestions given during chapel on Fri-
day morning. It is hoped that he will find
time to visit the campus often.

Albert D. King, ’21, writes that he is con-
nected with the E. W. King Company,, Bris-
tol, Tenn., wholesale dealers in dry goods
and notions. He plans to continue in this
line of work.

E. M. Alexander, '21, sends the following
information to the Almuni Department: “My
future plans depend on circumstances entire-
ly. I recently married and am with the
Staple Cotton Cooperative Association, con-
nected with a branch office at Belzoni, Miss-
issippi.”

Julian (Junebug) Price, ’22, president of
the “Y” last year advises that he is working
hard at the Johns-Hopkins Medical School
in Baltimore, Mr, Junebug says Fresh
Bible and Senior Philosophy are “crips”
compared to the courses at Johns-Hopkins.

Jimmy McQueen ’20, was a spectator at
the track meet with Clemson on Friday and
saw his record in the high jump broken by
Malcolm Calhoun.

Rev. L. H. Ikel, 16, pastor at Williams-
ton, Va., is doing interesting Home Mission
work, He is anxious to have a Davidson
man. to take charge of the local school in
the town.

Rev. W. C. Rourke, Ellerbe Springs, N.
C., is doing a successful school work and is
also anxious to have a Davidson man asso-
ciated with him.

Mr. Burney Thomas, and his brother, L.
M. Thomas, are making a great success In
the insurance business in Pittsburgh, Penn.
They are specializing in Group Insurance,
which is being used by large concerns in
protecting their employees.

The college friends of Dr, James W. Gib-
bons, Charlotte, N. C., will be interested
in his approaching marriage to Miss Kath-
erine Gilmer of Charlotte. Dr. Gibbons is
one of the rising young surgeons of the
state,

Dr. W. M. Jones, who graduated from

South Carolina Medical College last year is
now stationed at Roper Hospital, Charles-
ton, S. C., as an interne. He expects to
spend some time in the larger northern hos-
pitals before beginning actual practice.

The engagement of Dr. Fred W. Rankin,
'05, to Miss Mayo, a daughter of Doctor
Mayo, of the Rochester, Minn., Hospital,
has been announced. Doctor Rankin has
been on the Mayo staff for several years.

Rev. J. E. Purcell, Jr., '07, will preach the
Baccalaureate and Y. W. C. A. sermons
at the approaching commencement of Flora
McDonald College.

R. Hamlin Stone, ’18, who will graduate
at Union Theological Seminary in May, will
be located in Ashe County, North Carolina,
representing the First Presbyterian Church
of Greensboro in that Home Mission Field.

~ Rev. S. B. Lyerly, 1912, is now pastor of
St. Paul’s Church in Charlotte, N. C.

ee __SS|S——eaeaeaee—————SeSSSaaSEaEaB»E=»>»>E=aL—DhB~™h)EE|]|=]|="=l=)]"=]=]=]|]|=]]|]@]|=]™“=_“]»=|]™]_™’™"»"“"_ > >L_~__L_~_E_-_SES

DR. J. W. MacCONNELL
HONORED BY SPECIALISTS
At a meeting of the Eye, Ear, Nose and

Throat Specialists Association of North Car-

olina on April 17, 18 and 19, Dr. J. W. Mac-

Connell was elected president. This is the

second time Doctor MacConnell has had

this honor bestowed on him. The first time

that he was chosen president was in 1918,

but active military duties prevented him

from serving.

_ The Reel Stuff

SEEEEREEEESESESISUESEEEH StH

The moving picture for this week will be
“Robin Hood”, with Douglas Fairbanks in
the title role. The joys and sorrows of the
stirring twelfth century in England have
been lived all over again before the motion
picture camera, and the portrayal is deemed
absolutely accurate; this whole production
being based on every fact available in all
the records extant.

The castle of the Norman period, sur-
rounded by the inevitable deep moat, comes
to the screen as the result of the consum-
mate skill of the American engineers, archi-
tects, artists and artisans and it is unques-
tionably a perfect replica of the century of
kingly activity of eight hundred years ago.
Realism abounds everywhere inside and out-
side of this castle. For instance the moat
is filled with water lillies and live bullfrogs.

During the many months that were given
ever to the filming of this picture in the Pick-
ford-Fairbanks studios at Hollywood the
place was constantly a maze of spears. About
two thousand spears were used and as many
swords with five hundred daggers.

On next Monday night, April 30th,
. “Grumpy” will be shown here. The cast in-
cludes Theodore Roberts, May McAvoy and
Conrad Nagel. The first love scene is be-
tween Casson Ferguson and May McAvoy.
He is an ardent wooer but Conrad Nagel
is more successful. Grumpy, the girl’s fa-
ther is an old grouch but after all his heart
is in the right place.
D.
“Yes sir,” said the barber. “Will you
have some lather on your face, sir.?”

REJUVENATED WILDCAT
ON WINNING STREAK

(Continued from Page 6.)

WOFFORD ABRHPOAE
Roberts, cf ...........++- 500501
McMillan, lf ...........- 300100
(Oo nnaenonsaniong 402510
Batson, ss ........-++--+- 310210
Galtesbe ices lees 301201
Crawford, J., rf .......-.- 200100
Lindsay, 2b .....-.-...+++ 301201
Robertson, lb ...'.....---- 400601
Murph, p ......--.. eee 401040
Mune pre erse ees o....1 0-0 20 07 0

Tt AR 35 1524 6 4

DAVIDSON ABR HPOAE
RAGHATUS ED sans ee C Vee air diet Wak} |
OMG SrSSriscics con scree ee le areal
Crawford, C. Ib.......... 20013 01
Olfordeebaltoai ets sven EV 3b She (te tl
NEVE OLY, OH Guguggudgunoo0 400200
Covington, 3b ........... 40) 1" 1 3:0
Vance, rf .............1..8 0 000 0
BRicGrCe finite viiuctaies 301510
BOUBNEC) ah evs unitnearin § i A it cy

30 4 92716 4

xBatted for Lindsey in the ninth.

Umpire: Buch Stacks. ‘Time of game—
3 :40-5 :00.

SECOND WOFFORD GAME

In a one-sided, but nevertheless exciting
game, the fighting Wildcats took the second
game of the Wofford series by the lop-sided
score of 7-0. Hunter ptching for Davidson,
twirled a wonderful brand of baseball and
let the visitors down without a single hit.
In addition, he garnered a home run, the
first ball knocked over the Sprunt Field
fence since 1911. Hunter also laid down
a nice sacrifice and poled a two-bagger out
of his other three times at bat. Wofford
played a good game of ball, but a few er-
rors, and the Wildcats’ hitting ability, cost
them the game.

THE GAME BY PLAYS

First Inning: Roberts, the first man up
for Wofford, walked and was advanced to
‘second by McMillon’s sacrifice. On a wild
pitch by Hunter he made third, but was
thrown out at home by Hunter, who handled
Gross’ hot one nicely. Batson, the next
man up, flied out to right field.

Dick Richards up to his usual hitting
form, singled to center field, but was caught
at second on Alford’s hot one to third.
Crawford was safe on first and Alford man-
aged to beat out the throw to second. Brice
fanned and Ted Covington walked, filling
the bases, but F. Alford was thrown out at

rst.

Second Inning: Galt fanned, and Craw-
ford was out at first on a close play, Pat
playing it unassisted. Holcombe was out,
Covington to Crawford.

Marrow fanned, but Mauze was walked
by Wolfe. Hunter, the next man up hit
the second ball pitched and when it came
to rest it was in the plowed field over the
fence between left and center field. Mauze
scored ahead of him. Richards got to first
on Robertson’s error and S. Alford got one
for three bases, scoring Richards. Craw-
ford was hit by pitched ball and stole sec-
ond. Brice flied out to Gross who made a
pretty catch. Covington, next man up.scor-
ed Crawford and Alford by a long double
to left field. Alford F. grounded out sec-
ond to first.

Third Inning: Robertson fanned, and
Wolfe followed by the strike-out route.
Roberts walked and stole second, but Mc-
Millian fanned. No runs, no hits, no er-
rors.

Marrow fanned and Mauze got first on
pitchers error. Mauze went to second on
a Cwihhopdticn.s toxten - feesed cod, Maure
scored on Richard’s hit through second. S.
Alford was out second to first. 1 run, 1

hit, 2 errors.

Fourth Inning: — Gross flied out to left
field. Batson was out pitcher to first, and
Golt was thrown out at first by Richards.

Crawford walked, Brice hit one too hot
for Wolfe to handle and made first. Cov-
ington fanned and Crawford scored on F,
Alford’s grounder to second. Marrow fan-
ned.

Fifth Inning: Crawford was thrown out
by Covington, who made a pretty stop. Hol-
combe was thrown out by Alford and Ro-
bertson fanned.

Mauze fanned, Hunter failed to beat out
a pretty bunt and Richards was out, pitcher
to first.

Sivth Inning: Wolfe reached first when
Pat dropped Alford’s high throw from sec-
ond, Roberts fanned and McMillian was
out second to first. Gross died via Cov-
ington to Crawford.

$. Alford was thrown out by pitcher, and
Pat was out at first. Brice reached first on
an error by Holcombe. Covington beat out
a pretty bunt along the third base line. F.
Alford was out, short to first.

Seventh Inning: Batson was out second
to first, and Golt was thrown out by Coving-
ton. Crawford flied out to first.

Marrow walked, and went down to sec-
ond on Mauze’s sacrifice. Hunter knocked
one for two sacks and advanced Marrow to
third. Marrow was caught off third and
Hunter was caught stealing.

Eighth Inning: Holcombe fanned, Murph
hitting for Robertson flied out to center
field, and Wolfe was out, Richards to Craw-
ford.

Richards was thrown out by Golt, Craw-
ford flied out to first base.

Ninth Inning: Roberts fanned and Mc-
Millian flied out to Mauze in right field.
Covington speared- Gross’ high foul in a
spectacular catch, ending the game.

Lineup and sumary :

WOFFORD AB R-HPOA E
Roberts, cf ............. 200000
McMillian, lf ............ 400000
GrossUaiinanccsaninies 3007 3 3
Batson, ss ..... perekieeset 300020
Golesi sy incciccascetses 6 300220
Crawford, J. rf .......... 300000
Holcombe, 2b ............ 300151
Robertson, lb ............ 20011 01
WOMGIED Eis shes casa dtees 30003 2
Murphil bois. cos sass ose oc 100300

TOTALS 3055. +206 008 27 0 02415 7

DAVIDSON AB R HPOA E
Richards, 2b:............. 512040
SreAlLOrdyn88ice ss esc ss ses ffl fh Ste 5
Crawford, C. lb ......... 3 2.012 0 0
Covington, 3b ........... 302140
AMfordieHerlfariciics ces 0s 400100
Marrow, cf .............: 300100
MBER Tf is cise sc cis cess 220200
iS CTT CTS Senrmaencran peed 412030
IBPICE LCi sissies hs uiss cece ea 40010 00

TOTALS. ¢..c:..-.:+: 33.7'727 91

- Umpire, Stacks; Time of game, 1 hour 44
minutes. Two base-hits, Covington, Hunter;

Three base hits, Alford, S.; Home runs, |

Hunter; Strikeouts, by Wolfe 7, by Hunter
8.

ELON GAME

Getting off to a good start in the first
stanza the Davidson Wildcat nine held the
lead throughout and defeated the Christian
baseballers from Elon in a hard _ hitting
game on Sprunt Field Saturday the 21st,
taking the visitors’ measure 9 to 4.

Coach Currie’s diamond artists were able
to hit the Elon pitchers almost at will, and
this coupled with poor fielding gave David-
son an easy victory over the Elonites. At
times the Elon team would play jam-up base-
ball, but slack periods were costly. Sorrells
pitching for Davidson held the Christians to
one run during the first seven innings, giving
up only seven hits. The heavy scoring done
by Elon was off McLaughlin who took the
mound for the first time this season and for
his initial try-out in college ball’ at the be-
ginning of the eighth, McLaughlin at first
was a bit nervous and wild but in the ninth
settled down to good work and ended the
game in good style with a strike-out and
two infield grounders.

Covington, who has been handling the
hot corner in great style this season, showed
wonderful improvement in his old time weak
spot, slapping out four hits for seven bases
out of four trips to the rubber.
averages in general for the Davidson play-
ers were fattened, but hitting a thousand is
phenomenal in college baseball.

(Continued Next Week.)

INDEPENDEN

On the Square

Batting |

Courteous Regards
For

the Needs of Every Customer

Lleol geen eee ve even en nav nl eam ene ee eel eee eee
Eee

away the crowd from indoor events, but your
expected income from either source can be

made sure by rain insurance procured from

McAlister Carson, Manager ('13)
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO., Charlotte, N.C.

Dr. J. W. (Farmer) Moore is also a mem-
ber of the faculty of the University of
Louisville. While at Davidson he distin-
guished himself by making his letter in both
baseball and football for four seasons.

Rev. C. H. Rowan, ’15, was Moderator of
the recent session of the Mecklenburg Pres-
bytery.

D.

“Please !”
“Aw, come on be a sport.”
“Nope.”
“Aw please, just once.”
“POSITIVELY NOT!”
“Aw, gee Mom, all the other fellows are
going to wear longies ’n I always look like
a kid.”

Masculine voice :

Feminine voice:

HEADQUARTERS

All New
DANGE RECORDS

Pianos and Players

Gibson Guitars and Mandolins

SHEET MUSIG

“EVERYTHING MUSICAL”

ANDREWS.
MUSIC STORE

211-213 N. TRYON ST.

CE TRUST CO.

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

—o—ElC______SSE—_—_—_S_=
ee

Rain may prevent out door athletics and keep

