DAVIDSON—$90,000.00
IMPROVEMENT TOWN

Che Babidson Obserher

Today—1 Page

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 19, 1923

RETURNING MEN MAP OUT
COURSES FOR NEXT YEAR

In order to facilitate registration of old
men next year, and to enable those here to
plan their courses carefully, the members
of the three classes who are returning next
years have been required to map out the
courses they. intend to take and sign up with
the registrar during the past few weeks.
It will be possible to change these courses
at any time before school closes. Next year,
however, it will be necessary to petition the
faculty to change any ticket.

The main object of this move is to allow
the students to really consider before taking
a course, and to allow them to talk with men
already successful in the line of work into
which they ‘intend to go.

Dr. T. W. Lingle, chairman of the com-
mittee on graduation, has been rushing the
work to a close. Prof. E. J. Erwin is still
planning with the Juniors, while Doctor
Porter has registered almost all of the Soph-
omores.

All new men coming in next year will be
registered as usual, but with the three upper
classes out of the way, college should be on
a working basis in one or two days after the
opening of the fall term.

T).

L. B. Finn—Will you give me something
for my head?
Druggist—I wouldn't take it as a gift.

SESEESESESSESEESEIEESIESEEEIESIESIEIEIE HIE

FACT AND FICTION
ABOUT EVOLUTION
By R. L. Foster

The cardinal arguments of evo-
lutionists answered briefly and

to the point. i
On sale at Goodrum’s in Da-
i vidson or Strafford Co., Pub- |
lighers, Boston, Massachusetts.

PRICE $1.00
Get Your Copy Now.

PICTORIAL REVIEW
McCALL’S MAGAZINE
DELINEATOR
AMERICAN BOY

THE YOUTH’S
COMPANION
ST. NICHOLAS

LITTLE FOLKS
MAGAZINE

~ VICTORIA
WITHERS

R. O. T. C. UNIT INSPECTED
BY GENERAL D. C. SHANKS

General D. C. Shanks, commander of the
Fourth Corps Area of the U. S. Army, made
a formal inspection of the R. O. T. C. unit
of Davidson College on April 11th. The
General arrived on the 9:18 train Wednes-
day morning and was formally met by the
faculty military committee. His inspection
began first with the armory, then the range,
outdoor range, gallery, sandtable rooms and
maneuver grounds. He was well pleased
with all the places he inspected and espec-
ially with the gallery. General Shanks
Stressed the outdoor range as one of the
most important phases of the work.

At 9:50 A. M. the battalion formed and
gave an excellent review. The companies
executed all movements well and maintained
excellent straight lines throughout the
review. At the close of the review the
General addressed the battalion with a short
talk concerning the cooperation of the army
in training the citizen soldier, He also
brought out the facts that men of these
days have great opportunities and that they
should, in some measure, be prepared at all
times for emergencies.

Following the review and inspection, the
General was given a reception by the fac-
ulty military committee and officers, at
which time he met the entire faculty and
their families and all cadet officers. From
the General’s own statement, he said he
was well pleased with the efficiency and spirit
of the students, and from his general im-
pression he felt that all the cadet officers
showed good spirit and interest in their
work, On leaving General Shanks express-
ed the sincere hope of coming to Davidson
again during his army life.

In the history of Davidson College, Gen-
eral Shanks is the fourth general to be
associated with the College, the first three
being Generals Davidson, Stonewall Jack-
son, and Hill. General Shanks is a native
of Georgia and one of the oldest ranking
generals in the army. Some time ago he
requested that two years before he was to
retire from active service that he be sta-
tioned in the South for duty. As it is now
about one year from the time that he retires,
he has been placed in his native state, at
Fort McPherson, in the fourth corps area.

D.

Jack Holt Apéaais
In Indian Picture

On account of the unpopular sentiment
created by Charlotte newspapers against
the picture, “Bella Donna” featuring Pola
Negri, the faculty censored its run here and

§| Jack Holt in “The Tiger's Claw” was pre-

sented instead.

Jack Holt as Jack Sandell, showed his
usual versatility in adapting himself to the
many different scenes of the play.

The eternal triangle, as usual, was admir-
ably portrayed in the persons of Holt as

S| Jack Sandell, a young civil engineer, Aileen

Pringle as Chameli Brentwood, a half-caste
girl and Eva Novak as Harriet Halehurst,
a former fiance of Sandell.

D.

“All right, I'll take it, and give me some

Bdunswick needles, too.

For SHOE REPAIRING See

BLACK & KIMZY,

10 North Barracks

Get a MUNSON Shoe for Drill

Sport Shoes on display
Commissary.

MILLS SHOE Co.

every Wednesday at the

Statesville, N. C.

“Taste the’

Electrik Maid BREAD
PIES---CAKES---BUNS

‘Electrik Maid Bake Sh

* MOORESVILLE, N. C.

Dif ference”
oP

6

CO-OPERATIVE SPIRIT ‘Kannapolite Invasion
DISPLAYED BY SOPHS' Breaks Davidson Peace

|
At a meeting of the ophomore Class on| (,, day,
March 26, it was unanimously decided that

in the near past, the metropolis
|of Davidson was aroused from its spring
the class would inaugurate the custom of | fever by the sudden invasion into its exclu-
having some member of the class give a talk |sive precincts of a nomad troop of Kanna-
at a bi-weekly meeting of the class. This’ jotites, So quickly did the tribe descend
meeting will be held every other Monday ‘uoon the town, in their gaily decorated
morning. Such subjects as College Spirit, 'horseless chariots, that before it was realized
Class Spirit, Thought and Progress, will be! they had slipped by the Board of Censors,
discussed by the different members of the | who were having their mid-day repast at
class. The purpose of these meetings is to! Barnes’ Broadway Buffet, (and had pene-
seccure a finer cooperation in the Sophomore | tated to the very heart of the town—the
Class, to instill into each member a greater! pb,.¢ Office Square. After they had dis-
love for Davidson, and to maintain, uphold | j,ounted from their aforesaid means of loco-
and create traditions of which Davidson is| motion, several industrious members of the
proud. : tribe began to throw in every direction sheets
The first of these talks was given on) 4¢ paper covered with rows of strange heir-
Monday mofning, April 9th, by J. A. Lake,’ ogiyphics, But these curious papers were
vice-president of the class. His talk em- oniy the bait to draw the innocent David-
braced largely the problems which face the .onians into the invaders’ clutches.
Sophomore Class. He spoke in a straight-  [¢ seems that in the village of Kannapolis
from-the-shoulder manner, and impressed on they are ruled by the crafty King Pep, son
all the responsibilities which rest on every | 4¢ that renowned monarch, Sweldhead 1.
member. He stated that what the class does “this ruler, having conquered the neighboring
must not be a one-man, or few-men affair. village of Mooresville in a terrific battle in
but must be backed by every man, in order which he used the strategem of suffocating
to attain the highest and do the most for the enemy with the deadly fumes of hotair,
Davidson. ; ,decided that he must find some means of
This plan of the Sophomores is a new disposing of a large surplus quantity of this
one, and they realize that only with the Gbnoxious weapon. ‘Woe to Davidson the
closest cooperation and heartiest support by day that one of the king’s zealous followers
every member will it be what the class hopes suggested that they could make a profitable
for it. raid on its defenseless inhabitants and forc-
ibly unload the useless product there.

Little did the crowd that gathered around
the Kannapolites suspect what suffering they
were to endure. For, no sooner had the
nomads distributed the mysterious handbills,
than twelve big-chested men took from their
chariots curious keyed instruments of wood
and brass, with which they began to spread
abroad, according to the directions which
tHey held in front of them, the harsh “pop-
ular airs”. Those of the assembled crowd
who survived this barrage of noise and hot-
|air were rejoicing greatly when suddenly a
Kannapolite with a carrot top stepped forth
and began to “shoot”. Many were the
| brave men of Davidson who fell at this sec-
{ond onslaught. But the Kannapolites’ sup-
| ply of “airs” was not exhausted yet and soon
the death-dealing instruments were again
to succumb were Jazz Mania Bostick, Water | brought into play ahd the last of the Dav-
‘lank Jones, Pall Bearer Guthery, Eye idsonians succumbed’ before the invaders.
Masher Hines, Wandering Gopher Houck’! The Kannapolites, seeing the success of
and a steadily increasing horde of others. (their attack, jumped in their war chariots
Among the interesting facts connected | 4nd when last seen, were winding their tor-
with the disease is that of the various and | ‘uous way into the yet unconquered and un-
sundry designs and styles in glasses which | known wilds of Cornelius.
accompany it. These styles run all the way
from common ordinary “specs” to nose|.won both the javelin and the broad: jump,
glasses and a double monocle effect. jand Clarke took the decision in the high and

Due to the regulation which states that a|/low hurdles. Gracey got off to a bad start
student so afflicted is excused from classes | in the high hurdles and was steadily gaining
for some time an immediate recovery is not 'on Clarke on the last couple of Hurdles. One
expected. |or two more and the result might have been

PASSES p VASE different. Streibich seemed to have some
trouble getting his step.

State Engineers Outclassed | The race for second place in the two mile
Red and Black Cinder Men. was a pretty struggle between Selser and

Stewart. The last lap or so saw Selser
| right on the heels of the State man, but on
the tape. It was a pretty piece of headwork | the last round he didn’t have quite the
and gave the Wildcats a jolt from which | ength to pull past him, and lost by a
they never recovered. ‘The 100 and the shot jcouple of yards. ae
put resulted in two more victories for State | as Metal Gracey and Streibich were the
and from then on it was only a question of | high pestis Eo for the Red and Black, re-
how wide the margin would be. ‘gistering eight points each.

The javelin throw was the big event of SUMMARY
the day. Crater of State heaved it 159 feet 100 yard dash—Byrum,
9 inches for a new state record and Red |e nco ve
McCombs tossed the old javelin four feet | 5
beYond the old mark, but missed Crater’s | 2) ya rd dash—Byrum, State; ;
record by a little less than a foot Red had | tt tied for first place; Hendrix, David-
a few more tosses but he couldn’t quite | °°" Time 23 1-5 seconds.
reach the mark his opponent had set a few 440 yard dash—Byrum,
minutes before. | State;

In the mile the Wildcats won a well de- | Sconds.
| served-victory-when-“Spec” McConnell, run- |

D.

A New Optic Disease
Baffles Optometrists

Junior Speaking always has its aftermath
and the one just passed is no exception. The
cause which gives rise to such a statement
is the appearance within the last week of
quite a few cases of pink-eye among the
students. The exact pathological cause of
this condition is not known but numerous
theories have been advanced by those who
have taken cognizance of the wide spread
epidemic.

As evidence of the popularity of this red
optic disease is presented by a glance over
the list of prominent men of the campus
who are inflicted with it. Among the first

(Continued from Page 1) -

State; Morris,

Is

State ;
Hendrix, Davidson. Time 54 3-5

Half mile run—Johnson, State; Gallaway,
ning the prettiest race of the year passed | Navidson: Haywood, State. Time 2 min-
Scott on the last lap and beat him down "eS 15 is econds.

the straight-away. The time of four min,’ s One male run—McConnell,
utes and 53 seconds was excellent for the | ~Co't State; Stewart, State.

soggy track and the drizzle that chilled the | Utes 38 ay secon,
Puniieraitaitheihene: | Two mile run—Crockford, State; Stew-

Calhoun continued his good work with | 2° State Selser, Davidson. Time 10 min-
another tie in the high jump, and Davidson | "tes 53. 3-5. seconds.
won the pole vault when Sattenfield got dis-| Shot put—Hamrick, State; Dixon, State
gusted and quit when the rod was at only |Lindarmood, Davidson. Distance 38 feet
eight feet; but the mile, the high jump, and 7% inches. A
the pole vault tell the whole tale of the| Pole Vault—Gracey, Davidson; Streibich,
Wildcat victories. Davidson, tied for first; Satterfield, State.
The Red and Black runners fought hard | Height 8 feet:
but State managed to come out on top in| Discus—Hamrick, State; Dixon, State;
the other eleven events. Byrum was the|Lindarmood, Davidson. Distance 115 feet
individual star of the meet and carried off |614 inches. .
the honors in the 100, 220 and 440. Crater} Javelin—Crater, State; McCombs, David-

Davidson ;
Time 4 min-

tate; Hendrix, Davidson. Time 10 1-10] #

Morris, | #

Brown, | #:

son; Tilson, State. Distance 159 feet 9
inches. New State record.

High jump—Calhoun, Davidson; Satter-
field, State, tied for first place; Gracey, Da-

vidson. Height 5 feet 8 inches.

Broad jump—Crater, State; Streibich,
Davidson; Poole, State. Distance 20 feet
4 inches.

Low Hurdles—Clarke, State; Satterfield,
State; Mallory, Davidson. Time 27 9-10
seconds.

High Hurdles—Clarke, State; Gracey,
Davidson; Streibich, Davidson. Time 17
2-5. seconds.

D.

Don't worry over what’s pprinted in this
paper. Just thank your stars that some
things were not printed which could have
been.

You can’t tell

About these girls.
Sometimes they seem wise
They use their ears
To hear everything;
They use their eyes
To see everything;
But then

They go and use
Their tongues

To tell everything.

VICTROLAS

New VICTOR
RECORDS Every
Two Weeks

EVERYTHING IN FURNITURE

People’s Home
Furnishing Co.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

aSSEEEEELEEEREEIEEIEENEIESESESEE IEEE EER EIEN HIEREERE

AT THE GYMN
SATURDAY, APRIL 28

Present

“ROBIN HOOD”
with
Douglas Fairbanks

An Allan Dwan Production
Two Shows, 7 and 9 O'clock

$EREIEEEGESELEERESEEEEESZEE4E2$3224222:22328338
