THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 15, 1923

5

LITERARY NEWS

UNKNOWN FRIEND GIVES
VOLUMES TO LIBRARY

A friend of Davidson who wishes to have
his name withheld from publication has given
to the library a set of books that will add
much to its collection of war data. “How
America Went to War,” is the title of the
six large volumes compiled by Benedict
Crowell, assistant secretary of war, and di-
rector of munitions 1917-1920, and Captain
Robert Forrest Wilson. The volumes con-
tain official statements in regard to national
activities in those troublous times. They are
excellently illustrated with official photo-
graphs from the army and navy departments.

The generous donor is a Yale alumnus, the
books are issued by the Yale University
Press, and the statement is made on the
fly-leaf that the books are “In commemora-
tion of the work of the 8,000 Yale men who
took part in the World War, 1914-1918.”

_Of the set The New York Times says:

a deserves a place in the war li-
bravy of any one who wishes to make com-
plete the story of America’s participation
in the conflict. It is written out of personal
knowledge and based on official
records.”

The New York Tribune says:

“‘Lest we forget,’ it is well to have the
story fully told as it is in these luminous
volumes, with unsurpassed authority and
with unimpeachable sincerity. . . . It is
a wonderful story that these volumes tell.

It gives us a view of some of the

most important phases of war activity such
as it has hitherto been impossible for the
public to enjoy, and a view which is ex-
ceptionally fascinating and at the same time
instructive and admonitory. It is a note-
worthy performance to produce such a work,
for present reading and for future refer-
ence through uncounted years to come. $
The narrative might well be regarded as a
twentieth century Iliad, as full of heroic
incident and dramatic actions as that which
chronicles the fall of Troy. Nor have we
yet so far emerged from the war-time con-
ditions of poor paper and slop-work bindings
as to omit admiring remark upon the degree
of perfection in all the details of mechanical
bookmaking which the publishers have at-
tained in these sumptuous volumes.
This remarkable series is to be commended
in the strongest terms. There are no more
important phases of the entire theme of war
than those which are here dealt with, and
we shall not expect to see them dealt with
more authoritatively, nor in a more engaging
and convincing manner. nig

PANDEINICS AND PHIS
TO DEBATE IN FINALS

The finals of the junior-senior inter-so-
ciety debate between the Pandienic and Phil-
anthropic literary societies will be held the
first week in March. Before Christmas the
Pandeinic representatives won the decision
over the Eumaneans. Those debates were
over a question relative to the Kansas in-
dustrial court.

The query for debate in the finals hae
been changed and now reads: “Resolved,
that it was for the best interest of Europe
for France to occupy the Rhur.” The Phi
society will uphol the affirmative and its
representatives are J. W. Baldwin, W. P.
Brown, and P. J. Story. On the negative
side are C. F. Wildman, J. H. Davis, and
D. B. Walthall, of the Pandeinic.

The query under discussion is up-to-date
and a vital issue in world affairs today and,
as such, bids fair to produce an interesting
debate. Last year the Metrophilians won
the debating cup and the two contesting so-
cieties will fight it out for this trophy. Also
in this debate the best debator on each team
will be selected and to him will be awarded
the individual society emblem.

JOHN GREY IS ELECTED
PANDIENIC EXECUTIVE

For various reason, the regular program of
the Pandienic society was postponed this
week, After the devotional exercises the
election of officers for the coming term was
held. The results of the election are as
follows: J. H. Grey, president; E. Regen,
vice-president; W. A. Gamble, first critic;
D. B. Walthall, second critic; L. B. Gibbs,
secretary; J. R. Maxwell, sergeant-at-arms.
These officers will be installed two weeks
after the election. -.

During the election of first critic, Sorrells
discovered that Bevo Davis, who was one of
the nominees for the office, was voting for

himself. The house was greatly shocked at
this announcement, but the affair was
smoothed over with little difficulty.

After the election was finished, the re-
mainder of the evening was given over to
a feed, which had been prepared by W. T.
Baker and his assistants. Baker announced
that there were two sandwiches for’ each
man, and one piece of candy. There was
some doubt as to who should receive the
one piece of candy, but it was later dis-
covered that there was a piece of candy for
each man,

There were present as guests of the soci-
ety several men who are prospective mem-
bers. A few more men from both the fresh-
man and the upper classes may be received
into the society before the maximum number
is reached.

SIGMA UPSILON HEARS
DR. FRASER HOOD

Last Monday night, February 5, the Sig-
ma Upsilon Literary Fraternity held their
regular meeting in the Delta Theta Chi hall.
There were a good many members absent but
those present were honored and entertained
by the report of a play, read by Dr. Frasier
Hood, the title of the play being, “Sup-
pressed Desire.”> The nature of the sub-
ject was a psychological analysis and was
well portrayed. Doctor Hood gave a full
report and it was thoroughly enjoyed by
every one. A committee was appointed to
take up the matter of increasing the mem-
bership of the fraternity.

FRENCH OCCUPATION IS
DEBATED BY EUMANEANS

The regular meeting of the Eumanean so-
ciety was held Thursday, February 8. On
account of the basket-ball game which was
to begin at 8 o'clock it was decided to have
the meeting start at 6:45, and to dismiss in
time for the game. This was the first meet-
ing held under the new president, T. L.
Fraser. The debate was: “Resolved, that
France ‘s justified in entering the Ruhr dis-
trict.” It provided more than common in-
terest, six freshmen arguing the subject.
The affirmative was composed of Barr,
Brown and Smith. The negative consisted
of Sullivan, Burgaw:and Allison.

All freshmen were dismissed at 7:35 in
order that they might attend the pep meeting.
After their dismissal H. H. Smith delivered
an oration, “Those Who Went,” referring
to the fellows who discontinue school or col-
lege work that they may take up what seems
like a good paying position. He stated that
these men were soon out of work and not
prepared to advance themselves.

PHI SOCIETY CHOOSES
NEW TERM OFFICIALS

The officers for the spring term were
elected at the last meeting of the Phi soci-
ety.

H. K. Russell was cea to valedictori§n,
the highest honor the Phi offers. The presi-
dency to J. W. Baldwin, who defeated W.
P. Brown and A. V. Gibson. E. D.Brawn,
Jr., defeated W. G. Houck for vice-presi-
dent. X. Kenneth Lewis was extended the
position of secretary. S, R. Sloan got the
first critics’ work, being elected on the
slogan of “Slow-Ann from Row-an.” H.
M. White was elected second critic. Holts-
houser, J. E., was elected to be the orderly,
or first supervisor; W. J. Calhoun as second
supervisor. Lee J. McLean was elected to
fill the position of respondent.

Members of the Phi feel that they have
elected men to the respective offices who will
do their full duty in the fulfilling of the

It was no easy matter to find the right man
for the right place, the ballots were equal
for each man nominated in several instances,

D.

THE REEL STUFF

The moving picture management has an- |
nounced for this week, “Nobody’s Money,’’
starring Jack Holt. This is an exceptionally
high grade picture with a good plot and in-
teresting narrative qualities. Those who saw
Jack Holt in “Making A Man” will remem-
ber that he is one of that clean-cut type,
around whom the action of the whole picture
centers. .

obligations cast upon them by their fellows. |

which is to be shown here March 24, is al
costume picture. There has been a good deal |

of criticism of costume pictures in general

popular. Here is what Wallace Reid said
about “Knighthood”: “Someone said that
costume pictures are unpopular. If that
someone is privileged to see ‘When Knight-
hood Was In Flower’ I feel certain he will
leave the theater with a distinctly different
idea” It is said that the reception accorded
this picture in New York was most flatter-
ing. The New York American said that,
“When Knighthood Was In Flower” repre-
sents the supreme achievement in the motion
picture art.”

“Knighthood” introduces to the American
public an actor who has not been seen before
on the screen in this country. He is Lyn
Harding, who take the part of King Henry
VIII. Mr. Harding is well known on the
English stage, where he played with George
Arliss in “The Devil.”

Every decorative detail used in filming
“Knighthood” was a genuine antique, or a
perfect reproduction of some treasure in an
art museum. One set of tapestrics used is
valued at $125.000. Suits of tilting armor
valued at $100,000 were used. Over three
thousand costumes, many of them imported
from abroad, were used in the filming of this
picture.

D.

SEVENTY-SIX BIDS ISSUED
(Continued from Page 1)

Pi Kappa Alpha—Falls, R. H.; roa
W. B.; Regen, E. K.: Slitty M. B.; Jones,
N. O.; Ragan, G. W. Heda G (c},}

Spencer, W. T.; AMetauehiihy Frank.

Delta Theta Chi—Kelley, ‘T. M.;
W. B.; Smith, “G. W.; Brenner,
Martin, W. H.; Justice, J. M.

Phi Alpha Pi—Milton, W. E.; O'Connor,
Ed.; Claytor, A. B.; Saiueys Paul; Appleby,
J. J.; White, W. W.; Patterson, W. A.

Within the past week W. L. Pomeroy and
Ff. R. Earnest have been initiated into the
Delta’ Theta Chi. Also H. IF. Cater has
accepted an invitation from Beta Theta Pi.

Long,
OF

D.

SPEEDY WILDCAT QUINT
(Continued from Page 1)
Substitutes—Davidson: Davis for Mal-
lory, Beall for Davis, Staley (4) for Beall.
Trinity: Moss for Bullock, Carter for

Crute.
Referee:
Scorer:

Faul.
Mauze.

WOFFORD GAME

After the Trinity contest the Wildcats
showed a reversal of form and defeated the
Wofford Terriers, 37-12. The South Caro-
linians were badly handicapped by the loss

of Lindsey, their star forward, and made)

only a meager half dozen points in each per-
iod.

The Wildcats caged 16 field goals while
their opponents were ringing up four and
more than trebled the Terriers’ score. No
man succeeded in making more than one
goal from the floor for the Terriers, while
Mauze and Laird proved the high scorers
for the Red and Black.

Captain George, the Wildcat leader, caged
four field goals and tossed in five out of
nine free throws for a total of 13 points,
and carried off the individual honors for
the evening. Laird, ‘with five field goals,
proved the next highest man and Pat Craw-
ford and Staley each garnered three.

For the Wofford team Dillingham, at
guard; played a great game, and Collins, at
forward hit the rim time after time but the
sphere refused to go in.

To Sook Boog, playing opposite Collins,
goes much of the credit for the Terriers’
low score. Collins and Boggs played on the
same team in prep school and both were
picked for the South’ Carolina prep team.
Sook guarded Collins well and only one field
goal was made by him.

George Mauze made the first counter for
the Wildcats when he made a foul throw
|good. Red and Pat each contributed two
points before Dillingham scored first for the
| Terriers. Staley and Warhoss then tossed

{in-a _pair-from-the-floor, setting the Wildcats.

| ahead by seven points. Collins then shot a
free throw, and Laird, Staley, and George
ran the count up to 16. A few minutes later
the half ended 18-6 in favor of the Fighting,
| Devils.

In the second half the Wildcats duplicated
the score of the first frame and added one |
point, scoring 19 points to the Terriers’ six.|
The Terriers had the ball under the basket
time after time but poor shooting held down |
their score. The Wildcats have been ex.
perimenting at the forward positions in the}
early games. Laird and Staley make a|

“When Knighthood Was In Flower,”

fast combination, for Red is an accurate shot

and T. F. covers the floor in a flashy man-
ner. The.work of these two men against

‘ jthe Terriers was of the highest caliber.
‘and many of them have been branded as un- |

MacBeall also is playing like a demon and
his floor work is supberb. He was weak on
shooting at the start of the season, but has
improved greatly since then. Mallory and
Elkins, the other forwards on the squad are
also performing creditably.

Pat Crawford is a fixture at one guard
position and played a great game against
the Terrier clan. Sook’s guarding is of the
highest order and Nappy Davis can fill the
place of cither when they are out.
McConnell is also exhibiting a flashy brand

‘of basket-ball.

The absence of Lindsey gave the Wildcats

up well, scoring seven and six markers re-
spectively. Line-up:

DAVIDSON (37) CONCORD (21)

MMIEU CA) a cccercess Reker Wolff (6)
Staley (8)......... L. 'F.......08++Dick (7)
Mauze (12)....... Cirtearts «+++Bell. (3)
Crawford (8).......R. G.........Long (5)
Boggs (0)......... L. G.....McCaskill (0)

Substitutes—Davis for Boggs, Boggs for
Davis,: Elkins (2) for Staley, Beall for
Laird, Davis (1) for Mauze, McConnell (4)
for Crawford, DeArmond for Boggs, Bost
for McCaskill, Ridenhour for Long.

a great advantage as he is cc
of the best forwards in the Carolinas.
eral of’ the Wofford men were also handi-
capped by sprains and minor injuries.

DAVIDSON (37) WOFFORD (12)

Staley. (6)......... Rye ccc Elks (2)
Laird (10)......... | Fv EMA Rie Collins (6)
Mauze (13)......... C...........Child (0)
Crawford (6)..... R. G. DUMaHER (2)
Boges (0)......... LG cnn Rogers (0)

Substitutions—Davidson: Beall (2) for

>taley, Mallory for Laird, Davis for Boggs.
Wofford: Collins for Elks, Gentry (2) for
Collins, Williams for Child, Batson for Dil-
lingham.
Referee:
Scorer:

Faul.
Mauze.

CONCORD “Y”

No doubt about it now, Concord, David-
son has the better team! The game of two
weeks ago with Concord “Y” was a close
one, D. C. nosing out by only a few points
margin. But on Monday night, on their
home floor, the Wildcats piled up a score of
37 to 21, using the second team in the last
fifteen minutes of play.

The game was a somewhat ragged ex-
hibition of basket-ball, fouls were frequent,
and neither team played up to its usual
standard. Concord was unable to locate the

basket effectively, while the Red and Black

team did not get started on the right foot.
At the end of the first half, Davidson had
a six-point lead, the score standing 20 to 14.

Coming back with a strong attack in the
second period, the Wildcats had 30 points
chalked up to their credit. The varsity was
getting warmed up to real playing when
Coach Grey sent in an entirely new team,
which added seven to the tally.

Captain George Mauze was _ high-point
man for the game, and as usual Warhoss
covered more ground than is possible for
an ordinary man. Staley and Crawford
cach roped four pretty field goals and Laird
got one. At defense, Boggs played the air-
tight game for which he is noted, spoiling
many an attempt of Concord’s to toss the
sphere through the leather.

Davidson has more than one mighty good
basket-ball team, as was demonstrated when
a new five took the place of the varsity.
Spec McConnell trotted down from guard
position to toss in a couple of nice ones,
Elkins scored two points, and Nappy Davis
completed the scoring with a foul goal. Doc
DeArmand scrapped in true Wildcat fashion
at guard. This team showed some real speed

Speck} Referee: Sipley.
Scorer: Mauze.
A. A Qecocss00000000000000000000
ed one! &
Sev- | §

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks

Eversharp Pencils Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens

Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Particulars?

A Demonstration

The
Remington Standard

Portable ©
Typewriter

W. J. Cooper

and splendid team-work, 2 Watts
For the visitors, Dick and Wolff showed
‘
J X

Skibo in fine

We are showing a new line
of the justly celebrated Earl
& Wilson shirts—especially

and oxford, with the new
semi-soft collar, at $2.75. ,

The M. H. Goodrum & Co.

“Prices you can
afford to pay.”

Mr. Fiddler

Men’s Furnishings

white pongee

