THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 2Z, i9z3

Town News

Mrs. Jas. Copeland of Spartanburg, S. C.,
visited her niece Mrs. J. R. Withers last
week, ‘

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Page of Southern

Pines, N. C., spent the week end with Miss
Shaw.

Mrs. Tait and daughters of Norfolk, Va.,
were guests of Dr. and Mrs. W. J. Martin
and Miss Maude Vinson last week.

The Woman's’ Auxiliary observed a week
of prayer last week. Prayer meetings were
held Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday
afternoons. Each meeting was a study of
Home Missions. Thursday afternoon a fre¢

will offering was taken, which amounted to
$123.00.

Bouquets as souvenirs. Those present were:

Mesdames W. H. Wooten, J. M. Blue, D. O. |
Brown, Everett Booe, C. S. Goodrum, K. J. |
Foreman, Lloyd Christenbery, F. W. Hen- |
‘geveldt, Cloyd Potts, W. N. Mebane, M. H. |
Ellis, Misses Margarett Adams, Katherine
Potts, and Mrs. Willis Johnston of Moores-
ville.

Salisbury and Spencer Defeated on

_Mr. and Mrs. Everett Booe and children, Statesville-Salisbury Game
Everett Jr., and Merle, of San Antonia,; fp a thrilling, hard-fought battle, staged on
Texas, will spend the winter with their | Richardson Field, at Davidson, Wednesday
father and grandfather, Mr. P. W. Booe. afternoon, Statesville High defeated the lads
from Salisbury by the score of 9 to 0. The
Mrs. C. S. Goodrum entertained the Sut-| Previous week these two teams had locked
zus Club, last Friday evening. Each member |horns for five quarters, and when the game
brought sewing. Chicken salad was served | ended they were still locked in a 0-0 tic. The
as refreshments. Those present ‘were; game played here broke this tie. At the be-
Misses Margarett Adams, Sara Lingle, Or- | ginning of the second half R. Brawley tallied
rie Steele, Dorethy Finlayson, Ellen Black | for Statesville, making a drop-kick from the
and Mrs. J. M. Blue. | 38-yard line, and in the last four minutes .of
ee play’ Woodward intercepted a pass on the

Charlotte and Statesville Defeat
Opponets in in Elimination Series

ta Dhvidion Gridiron in Hard-Fought

Battles

The extra point was again made by McNinch.
For the third time in the first quarter Char-
lotte came toward the goal and when the
quarter ended lacked only half a yard to go.

On the first play in the second period the
third touchdown was made, followed by a
third extra point. Spencer then tightened
down and were able to make two first downs
in succession, but were forced to kick. The
rest of the period consisted in an exchange
of several punts, with several good gains by
Charlotte, but the half ended without any
more scoring.

MOTHER CHAPTER HOSTESS

(Continued from page 1)

Doubles, of Richmond, Va., grand visor. All
of these had served during the past year ex-
cept the grand recorder, who succeeds M. A.
Siske, of Beaufort, N. C. The latter was
elected chairman of the extension committee.

At 7:30 Friday evening the convention’s:
final session was held, ending with a banquet
in the Alpha Alpha chapter hall. Informal
in detail, the banquet was a never-to-be-for-
gotten session of good-fellowship, and
speeches, discussion, and yarns flowed thick
and fast until the wee sma’ hours of morn-
ing brought the meeting to a close. In all
respects the first annual convention of Gam-
ma Sigma Epsilon was a great success.

Gamma Sigma Epsilon is a fraternity
which deserves the respect and admiration of
every Davidson student, and the founding

Mrs. C. A, Munroe of Charlotte is spend- |

ing several weeks in Davidson.

The Book Lovers Club met last Friday |
afternoon at oy home of Miss Julia John- |

ston. Mrs, FE. F. Shewmake read a paper,
“Greek Architecture as Used in Modern
Building.”

Mrs. McRae of Maxton, spent the week

end with her son John S. McRae, a member
of the class uf '27,

Mr. Johnie Richards, Class of ’20 and his
brother J. R. Richards of Clemson College,
spent the week end in Davidson.

Mrs. Merle Dusenbery entertained last
Wednesday afternoon, in honor of Mrs. D.
O. Brown and Mrs. Everett Booe. The
apartments were tastefully decorated with
Chysanthemums, During the afternoon rook
was played. At a later hour chicken salad
with accessories were served. The hostess
presented the guests with Colonial Candy

FEEDS?
W. B. BARNETTE

AND CO.

« We specialize in Shoes
and Hose for College Men

S. & W.
CAFETERIAS

Good Home Cooking and
Courteous Service
Is Our Specialty

Charlotte Winston-Salem
Asheville and Greenville, S. C.

Announcing Our New

Location Near Post Office

NORTON 9 BARBER

SHOP

Always Something Good
to Eat

NEW YORK CAFE

DAVIDSON

|

Miss Nora Thompson is home from her |
visit to Laurine, Wyoming, where she spent |
a pear with her uncle. She stopped on her

| way to Davidson, in Atlanta, to see her sis-

ter Miss Mary Thompson, who is in training
at the Georgia Baptist Hospital.

Mr. and Mrs, Walter Henderson have been

Veatted to Atkinson, on account of the critical |

| :
|

illness of Mrs. Henderson's father.

Mrs. D. O. Brown, formerly Miss Susie |
Brady iveturned to Greensboro after spending |
several days with her mother Mrs. Brady.

Miss Nancy Grey, who is attending Win-
throp College, returned home for the week |
end to visit her father and mother, Dr. and
Mrs. W. R. Grey.

Miss Marie Johnston, who has been spend-
ing several days with her mother, returned
to Charlotte, where she will resume her work
as trained nurse.

| 20-yard line and scored the remaining points,

The teams were.evenly matched, both tight-
ening at the critical moments and both being
able to take the ball down the field for con-
sistent gains. Statesville’s main method of

®/ attack was the aerial route, while Salisbury

skirted the ends for 20-yard gains on several
occasions.
In the first quarter the Statesville team

! was able to work the ball within striking dis-
tance of the goal, but lacked one yard when

the ball changed hands on downs. Salisbury
/made a weak kick of 25 yards, and the quar-
ter ended. In.the second quarter, after a
}few short gains, Statesville made her three
points from the 18-yard line.

It was here that Salisbury opened up, and
{after the kick-off, made four straight first
| downs, two coming as a result of 22-yard and
26-yard run around right end. Overton, how-
ever, failed in his attempt to drop-kick a field
goal. The half ended without any more
threatening of goals.

Invthe third quarter Salisbury kicked off,
Statesville fumbled, and after several plays

Soa ae | y agi ‘ f E
Miss Maude Neile leaves for Dr. Long’s | Salisbury again came near the goal and a

Sanitorium, in Statesville, Sunday; where |

. |
she will undergo an operation for appendi-

citis.

Mrs. Mary M. Sloop of Crossnore, N. C.,,

spent last Sunday with her sister, Mrs. A. |

Currie.

Mrs.
relatives and friends in this state and Vir-
ginia. She will be gone several months.

Dr. Arbuckle spoke last Monday night at |
the Second Presbyterian Church in Char-
lotte, at the “Father and Son Banquet.”

The Civic League is making preparations |
Sth. |
| witnessing the second game in one week in

for a bazaar, to be held December
Fancy articles suitable for Christmas gifts
will be sold.

Mrs. Doyle and her daughter of Baltimore,
are visiting Dr, and Mrs. J. W. MacConnell.
Mrs. Doyle is Mrs. MacConnell’s mother.

Miss Coma Burgess of Charlotte spent last
Sunday with Mrs. Richards. Miss Burgess
is a teacher in one of the graded schools.

THE RETURN O OF F ALICE JOYCE

A screen event of no little importance is
the return to the screen of the gorgeously
beautiful Alice Joyce, in “The Green God-
dess,” the Distinctive picture starring George
Arliss, which is to be shown here Saturday.

When Alice Joyce married James B. Re-
gan, Jr., one of the wealthiest young men in,
New York, she announced she was through |
with the screen for all time. However, it

seems she could not resist the opportunity |

offered by the excellent part of the young
English wife in “The Green Goddess,” and
it required little persuasion on the part of
Arthur S. Friend, president of the Distinc-
tive Corporation, to have Miss Joyce change

her mind, once she had read the scenario.

CHARLOTTE — MOORESVILLE — STATESVILLE
, WHITE BUS LINE
Leaves Charlotte

Charlottes oo aS 7:30 10:30 1:00 5:30

Huntersville -. ---. ---. $.-- 8:10 11:10 1:40 6:10

Gormelitiss soo 28) cos5 Sole 8:25 11:25 1:55 6:25

Davidsonvsas sess slew Sa 8:30 11:30 2:00 6:30

Mooresville ---. ---. ---. ---- 8:45 11:45 2:15 6:45

Mroutman esos. 2S ole eos 9:15 12:15 2:50 7:15

Statesville: soos i022 S255 coke 9:30 12:30 3:05 7:30

A, M. A. M. P. M. P.M.

7 Leaves Statesville

: A. M. A. M. P. M. P. M.

Stetesville 20. so22 2255- scce 8:00 10:00 2:00 4:30

FRTOUtmaNy cons) Sosa cona—cacs 8:15 10:15 2:15 4:45
Mooresville -. ---. ---- ---- 8:45 10:40 2:45 5:10 .

Davidson 9 :00 10:55 3:00 5:25

9:05 11:00 3:05 5:30

wae 9:20 11:20 3:20 5:45

10:00 12:00 4:00 6:30

i For Further Information See Driver

Whitaker leaves" soon to visit her |

son,

{second drop-kick failed to make the three

dee necessary to tie. The next few min-

utes was a see-saw affair, and the quarter
need with the ball in Salisbury’s possession
}on the 14-yard line.

At the opening of the fourth period Salis-
bury for the third time attempted a drop-
i kick and for the third time failed. It was
in this last quarter that Statesville showed
ther skill at forward passing, trying seven

land completing five, gaining 65 yards in this

jmanner. A pass was grounded behind the

| goal line and the ball went over to Salisbury,

| who tried a pass on her own goal line, Wil-
of Statesville, intercepting it for the
| final score.

Charlotte-Spencer Game
Davidson students had the opportunity of

| the

| elimination contest between the high

| schools in this section, when Charlotte High

| handily defeated the Spencer team, 30 to 0,
lin a one-sided, uninteresting contest on Rich-
jardson Field, last Saturday. The big lads
|from the Queen City proved too much tor
the Railroaders and experienced no effort in
running up the score. Statesville was elimi-
| nated by Asheville last Saturday, narrowing
{the number of teams still in the field to a
small number.

Charlotte kicked off, and Spencer being un-
able to make any appreciable gains, returned
the same. Charlotte then marched down the
field and in a few minutes after the first
blast of the whistle had sounded, scored her
first touchdown, , followed by the extra point
made by McNinch. A few minutes after the
second kick-off, Wilson, for Charlotte, inter-
lcepted a pass on the 60-yard line, and with
an open field before him ran for a touchdown.

| CALENDAR
THURSDAY, NOV. 22—
7:30 p. m., Eumenean Society.
7:30 p. m., Phi Society.
FRIDAY, NOV. 23—
7:30 p. m., Glee Club Concert.
9 :30 p. m., Junior-Senior Basketball.
SATURDAY, NOV. 24—
D. C. Freshmen vs. Oak Ridge, at
Statesville.
7:00 p. m., Movies—George Arliss,
in “The Green Goddess.”
SUNDAY, NOV. 25—
10:00 a. m., Bible Classes.
1:15 p, m., Christian Endeavor.
2:00 p. m., Ministerial Band.
6:15 p.m, Y. M.C. A.
TUESDAY, NOV. 27—
7:15 p. m., Pandeinic Society.
°7:15 p. m., Metrophilian Society.
7:30 p. m., Basketball.
9:00 p. m.; Junior Eumenean,
WEDNESDAY, NOV. 28—
7:30 p. m., Prayer Meeting.

of which will always remain a source’ of
pride to Davidson. It gives to everyone in-
terested in chemistry something for which
to strive—a goal to be attained. Having
reached that goal—membership in G. S, E.—
the student has opened to him a new and
ever-broadening ficld of entertainment and
knowledge, in the discussion and study of
chemical research. The students who have
proved themselves worthy of this privilege
and have been received into the local chapter
are: W. M. Cox, R. R. Jones, Marion
Murtay, G. M. Ford, W. Z. Bradford, J. M.
Williams, J. E. Singletary, J. B. Gallant,
A. M. Sample.

Spencer continued in the third quarter to
hold the husky lads from Charlotte, and the
only scoring registered for the latter was a
safety. In the fourth period the Queen City
boys were able to make another seven points,
Sanders intercepting a triple pass attempted
by Spencer, and making.a touchdown after a
45-yard run. McNinch for the fourth time
during, the fracas added the extra point.
This game was of unusual interest to the
Davidson students, who witnessed the game
(and there were many who “rushed” the
gate), because eariler in the season the
Freshman team met the Charlotte players
and were able to win over them, 6 to 0.

Yes, we have good things
to eat

The Misses Schofield

BASEBALL FANS AS “EXTRAS”

The mob scenes in “The Green Goddess”
call for somewhat emphatic expressions of
dérision on the part of the populace. Sid-
ney Olcott hit upon the idea of enlisting
some patrons of the bleachers at the Yankee
ball park in New York not far from the
studio as extras. Two thousand responded
and needless to say they needed no rehears-
sal in the matter of registering derision.
All Alcott had to say was, “Now, altogeth-
er, men, the rasberry!”

COMPLETE LINE

SILK-WOOL
HOSIERY

The result is one of the best mob scenes
ever staged. The yells sent chills up and
down Mike Every’s back. Mike is now a
stage carpenter, but he used to be a base-
ball umpire.

A. C. McINTYRE
Box 123

SUITS

Y. M.andsport models,
serges and worsteds,

Vinck Clothing (o

CHARLOTTE

blue, brown, pinstripes,

plaids and checks

OVERCOATS

Plaids, browns and grey mixtures, plain and
belt models

TOP COATS

Whip cords and Gaberdines with belts and
fancy yokes

We carry a complete stock of gents furnish-
ings, hats, leather goods, and trunks

Lingle Clothing Company —

203 W. Trade St. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

