THE DAVIDSONIAN,. NOVEMBER

WILLIAM JOSEPH MARTIN
President of Davidson College

A.B., M.A. (Davidson), M.D.. Ph.D. (Johns Hopkins), L.L. D. (University |
of Virginia) | the Wildcats the ball on the 35-yard line.

ors upon hmself on the cinder path with his
high school “marathons.

During Ted's Soph year he made all the
varsity gridiron trips with the exception of
one. He played in three varsity games. He
was also called upon to go with the gang in
three of the scrub expeditions. His train-
ing then did wonders for hm and made him a
valuable element for Monk to use this year.

Ted played third base his fresh year and
although he did not get in any of the games
he got in shape to make ‘the varsity last
year. One must see him in action to under-
stand the art that he uses in his plays.

Methinks me heard more than one fair
damsel remark that Ted was the prettiest
boy at Davdson College, but that was be-
fore V. P. I. game this year. He was ten-
dered with a fractured nose “and it altered a;
bit the beautiful countenance of his glowing
face, but it is about to recover now and he
will once more be that pretty boy so often |
spoken of. In playing last week in the Fur-
man game his nose was hurt again and had
to be reset but Ted doesn’t think it will hin-
der him from doing his best in any of the |
other games.

Ted shows an interest in the social life of
the campus for quite often we see him stroll-
ing about the campus with his, or with some
other fair lady. Ted, we are proud of you.
You are adding laurels to your crown and
bringing honor upon old Davidson,

PURPLE HURRICANE

(Continued from page 1)
yards to the 10-yard line MeCurry grabbed |
the pigskin tnd turned to race up the field
but he failed to dodge ’Lias Faison, who
downed him in his tracks. It was a beau-
tiful peice of work and the crowd gave the
Wildcats a big ovation, The Hurricane was
forced to punt and Herlong booted the ball
to mid-ficld but a fifteen yard penalty gave |

J. M. C. COVINGTON

J. M. C. Covington, whom we all know
as “Ted,” comes to us from that well known
little town of “Laurinburg, in the country so
named for the Scotch Highlanders, of whom
Ted is a noble descendent. He entered with
the class of °25, and is filling a very val-
uable place in it. He is a halfback on our
varsity team although he does not play in

and Materials at

collars.

colors.

Men’s medium weight

Men’s silk sox —

| The Wildcats gained 5 yards and then Laird |
| ; ;

; ( F «| attempted a drop kick which Furman recov-

that positon at all times. We may call him | empted i Hl i s ; |

; fered on their 10-yard line, A Furman punt |

our speed: king on the team. Paieay ‘ |

hit Fields, and Burnette recovered on the |

Ted was not a candidate for football his '44-yard line. A short punt by Waters gave

fresh year, probably due to the fact that he }the Wildeats the ball on the 35-yard line.

had only one yeaf ona high school team be- | Three of f-tackle drives

netted 9 yards and
fore he entefed here.

His high school did} Laird punted to the Furman 5-yard mark.
not havea team until he was a senior, But

he was_a.Star for four years with ‘the ball
and the basket and also with the old pill on

Then it was that the Wildcats came within
an ace of a touchdown, Carter called for a
jpass from behind the goal line and Black

BELK BROS. CO.

Clothing Department

Weare showing a complete line College Boys’
Suits, Hats and Furnishing Goods at attrac-
tive prices. Come in and see what wonderful
values we have to offer. ;

YOUNG MEN’S HAND-TAILORED SUITS
Schloss, Styleplus and Belk hand-tailored
Suits made in the Season’s Newest

$25.00, $29.50, $35.00, and $39.50
NEW FELT HATS

New Fall Hats in Snappy Shapes and Patterns

$2.95, $3.95, $4.95, and $7.00
MEN’S DRESS SHIRTS

Men’s fine dress shirts made of best grade
Percal and Madras, made with and without

98c, $1.50,
MEN’S TIES

Silk and Knit Ties, new shapes and beautiful

48c, 75c, 98c, and $1.50
MEN’S UNDERWEAR

Men’s Nainsook unionsuits, all sizes

48c, 63c, 98c

98c, $1.25, $1.50
MEN’S HOSIERY

Men’s lisle hose, all the leading colors

25c and 35c
48c, 85c, $1.00

the diamond. Perhaps he his

acquired

running te intercept the ball missed the oval
iby inches, for what would have been a sure
| touchdown.

|

|

Covington returned Waters’ back kick 20
yards to the 33-yard line. On the first play
Hendrix lost 5 yards around right end. Cov-
ington gained back the ground when he slid
through tackle for 5 yards. A lob pass to
Laird netted 9-yards and Black made it first
down with a yard to spare. Four plays gain-
ed 9-yards and the ball went over on the 18-
yard line as the half closed.

The second half was all Furman’s, Carter
blocked Laird’s punt early in the third period
and raced five yards across the line for the
Hurricane’s second touchdown. Then two
touchdowns and a goal from the field by
Carter with three successful touch-
down made the final score 30-0.

after

Patterns

Tilghman kicked off to Covington to open
|the half. The Wildcats were unable to gain
and Laird punted 45 yards out of bounds on
| Furman’s 32-yard line. Furman was forced

to kick and Waters booted to Covington who !
fumbled, Carter recovering on Davidson's 35
jyard line. Watery and Poteat
smashed through for two first downs but
| the thin Red line stiffened and the Hurricane
| was checked for three downs, Carter's at-
|tempted placement goal was a dismal failure
{and the ball went over to the Wildeats on the
15-yard line. Then after the Baptists had
stopped two plays Carter blocked Laird’s
punt and ran for a touchdown. He kicked
goal. Score: Furman 13, Davidson 0.
Tilghman kicked to Covington who return-
ed 12-yards to the 25-yard line. Laird’s
punt was hurried and went out of bounds on
the 45-yard line. Poteat swept around end
twice for 15 yards, placing the ball on the
14-yard line. Four line bucks made it first
down by six inches and Poteat went over
right tackle for the third touchdown, Carter
kicked goal. Score: Furman 20, Davidson 0.
Tilghman kicked 25 yards to Black who re-
turned 10 to the 40 yard line. Three plays
fost 5 yards and Laird punted to Furman’s
32 yard line. After an interchange of punts
Dobson intercepted a pass on the 37-yard line
at the close of the quarter. Poteat, Carter
and Herlong circled end for three first
downs, placing the ball on the 25-yard line. |
| After two plays Poteat went around end for |
{a®touchdown. Carter kicked goal. Score: |
) Farman 27; 2axidesw't. |
Several substitutions were made by both
cs Covington returned Tilghman’s kickoff |
|25 yards to the 40 yard line. Covington shot

Herlong,

and $2.00

unionsuits

| Fibeniese of foot when he was heaping hon- lRiroeati tackle for 18 yards and Black made

}it first down over center. Simpson inter-
|cepted a pass in midfield and gained 36
| yards on three plays, On the five yard line,
| the Wildcats held and Carter kicked a place-
}ment from the field for the final three points.

Coleman kicked to Covington who return-
ed to the 20-yard line. After an interchange

who ran 30 yards. A pass failed and the
| game ended with the ball in Davidson’s pos-
session on Furman’s 30-yard line.

The line-up and summary follows :

Furman (30) Position Davidson (0)

Left End

HOWatdi cs cocci See ee seme ee Summers
Right End
Gattet: (CO) ccseueeecescesesss Faison (C)
Quarter Back
McGiitity 2222 sees ees Shepherd
Left Half
Herlong Hunt

POtGdto co Soe s eee ees eas Covington
Full Back
WiltGts 2 eee ene McCombs
Score by periods:
Man 2 ere oe 6 0 14 10—30
DaVidS6ilt 2228 ce cee eee ee 000 0—0
Touchdowns: Poteat (3), Carter. Points

after touchdown: Carter (3), (kicks from
placement) goal from field; Carter.
Substitutions : Davidson—Hendrix for
McCombs, Black for Shepherd, Lindamood
for Summers, Cox for Vance, Hodgin for
Lindamood, Sappenfield for Hendrix, Mc-
Combs for Hunt, Hunt for McCombs, Hen-
drix for Sappenfield, Sappenfield for Hen-
drix, Hodgin for Lindamood, Lindamood for
Laird, Buck for Hunt, Long for Cox, Lewis

}of punts the Wildcats tried an aerial attack. |
'A pass to Covington failed but on the next
play Sappenfield shot a short pass to Buck }

son for Poteat, Orr for Dobson, McElveen
for Howard, Blackwell for Lanford, Brown
for Burnett, Harrell for Herlong, Meeks for
Waters.

GLEE CLUB OPENS SEASON
WITH Pp

(Continued from page 1)
assailed a reportoir of popular selections and
scored a hit to the extent that they played
several encores.

As a whole, the performance was well re-
ceived and appreciated by the Huntersville
|folk. The only criticism made by a number

Tilphinaticcs: cossocaee es ek Davis | Was the lack of pep, a quality which comes
Left Tackle to a club only after long training and much
pRUfiett ©: oso 0c sees ee Laird | practice.
Left Guard The audiere numbered between 150 and
DOBSON os ee ete ate Long | 200 people. After paying expenses out of
Center their share, the Glee Club will apply the re-
COlMMAN sscccceese oe neeaose ee erns Fields | maining proceeds on the big trip of the year,
Right Guard ja week's tour of the two Carolinas and
Ioan ford nse ree Vance | Georgia, the fartherest point to be reached
Right Tackle | being Atlanta. \

The Atlanta trip will probably occur about
| the first of December. In the meantime, the
}club is taking short trips to the towns near
| Davidson where the expenses are small, and
jis trying to get cnough ahead to cover ex-
| penses should the southern trip prove a fi-
| nancial failure. If the southern trip is a suc-
‘cess financially, the club is considering a trip
during the Christmas holidays through
{southern Georgia and Florida. This trip is
jas yet in the infaney of conjecture and can-
not be decided until later.

The club has prospered in quality under
the able direction of Ted Jones who has
secured Mrs. Baker of Charlotte to train
the club, :

_ YELLOW CAPS

The following freshmen have — been
campused and sentenced to wear the yellow
cap during the past week: For the period
ending October 30th, Long, C. A.; for the
period ending November 2nd, Treverton, W.
M.; for the period ending November 6th,

for Long.
Furman—-Blackwell for Lanford, McGee
for McCurry, Lanford for Blackwell, Simp-

McQueen, Malcolm. These freshmen are
not allowed to go to picture shows during
the period for which they are campussed.

~

(puoFOLD STANDARDS IN LOWER PRICED PENS

=

Masters of Pendom

make all Parkers
As well as the famous Duofold

The same classic shapeliness —The same writing balance
New Parker D. Q.—Students’ Special, 33

Bini G: Hates

Written with a Parker
by “Tex” Hamer, Pennsylvania’s
famed football captain

HEN you buy a Parker Pen of any

model, at any price, you are getting
a standard that never existed before the
Parker Duofold was created; and which
exists today only in the Parker make.

Parker’s lower priced black pens are like
Parker Duofold in everything save the size and
point. Yet even their points are tipped with
NATIVE Tasmanian Iridium and polished
to the smoothness of a costly jewel bearing.

Only the Parker crafts-guild is trained to make Duo-

fold quality, and this same skill produces all other
Parker Pens too.

If you want the Over-size Pen with lacquer-red bar- ‘
rel, flashing black tips and 25-year point— get Parker
Duofold, $7. (Duofold Jr., or Lady Duofold, $5.)

If you want Duofold’s classic lines and writing bal-
ance in a low-priced black pen of good size, get the
new Parker D. Q. specially made for stu-
dents, $3.

Any near-by pen counter can supply you.

The New Parker
D.Q. has large ring

PREY. to link to note-book

But be sure the pen is stamped “‘Geo.S.Par- or pocket-clip Geel

ker” if you want the new-dayimprovements, Cap reinforced with
metal girdle.

THE PARKER PEN COMPANY
JANESVILLE, WIS.

Manufacturers also of
Parker ‘‘Lucky Lock’’ Pencils

™ ParkérD.Qg

Bandea Cap—Large Ring or Clip—Duofold Standards

FOR SALE BY
White Drug Company
W. S. Henderson

