2

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 29, 1923

Big Guns in the Ranks of the Wildcat Foe

McCURRY, Oe Anvteck
urman
As a safety man, McCurry is hard to beat.
His returning of punts is sustained and on
the defense he is a sure tackler. He was the
cause of Furman's 13-10 victory last year.

COLEMAN, Center
Furman

Coleman showed wonderfully well
against the Wildcats. He blocked one of

up

the, punts that spelled victory for Furman.

“There shall be no regrets,”

Texas A. & M.,

set for his football men.

College of South Carolina. The death of

Southern football.

Hill.
true sportsman.

CLYDE BROWN
Presbyterian College

DEDICATION

is the slogan Coach Dana X. Bible, mentor of
There is one regret which the hardest of
hearts can not fail to recognize, however. This is the loss of a human life.

To those men who have laid down their lives in support of their college teams,
the Editors dedicate this special edition of the Davidsonian.

We pause in solemn reverence, in memory of Clyde Brown, of Presbyterian

Brown played against the Wildcats in the opening game of the season at Rock
He is remembered as a hard-playing right end who had every mark of a

To the memory of Brown and other football heroes who have made the supreme
sacrifice, this Davidsonian is respectfully dedicated.

Brown came as the greatest “regret” of |

THANKSGIVING SCRAP CLOSES
SEASON

(Continued from page 1)

vidson supporters are looking for him to tear
through the Blue line.

Sapp, of Winston-Salem, whose work on
the Freshman team has been spectacular will

also be waiting to enter the fray. Off-tackle
plays and end runs are his specialty,

Gig Shepherd, Captain Elias Faison;
Mason Field, Warren Cox, Doc DeArmon,
Tige Long, and Nappy Davis close their grid
career against Trinity and will do everything
in their power to finish victoriously.

The chances are fifty-fifty and only the
final whistle will decide the winner,

BONNER, Halfback
Carolina

The best halfback in the state, is Coach
Monk's verdict on this.Tar Heel flash. Rab-
bit, as sub last year got his real chance this
<geason and has_lived-up.to. his name. He is
the mainstay of. the Carolina offense,

CAPTAIN BOSTIAN, Center
N. C. State
Bostian is the gutstanding player in the
State line. He is an accurate passer and a

strong player on the defense. Coach Yornger}
picks him to fill the pivot position ‘on his

All-State. selection.

DOBSON, Guard
Furman
Red Dobson's work in the line was a big |

feature of the Davidson-Furman game, The

Purple line threw back the light Davidson |
line and Red did more than his share in con- |

tributing to the overthrow.

CAPTAIN CARTER, End
Furman

Blackie Carter has proven one of the
greatest ends in the South this season. His
defensive play has been phenomenal and in
addition to his ability as an end he has kicked
a field goal in practically every game. of the
season,

MoDON AC Quarterback
Carolina

Mont, has played his last season in a blue
uniform. Carolina will miss him next season,
as his generalship has been largely responsi-
ble for many Tar Heel victories. There is no
GRIEG inte minds of football critics that
McDonald is still the best caller of signals
in the state.

|

POTEAT, Halfback
| Furman
|

In the Davidson game Poteat looked like |
| All-Southern material.
the highest order.

His playing was of |

Furman
A substitute back, Simpson showed up as
| well against the Wildcats the big guns of the
Furman offense. He tore through the line
like a battering ram in the latter part of the
game.

| SIMPSON, Halfback
|

To brag little, to show well, to

Wendell Holmes.
*
The Davidson Wildcats fight to

gations. The line may be light, but

force is spent.

from whistle to whistle.

handed down from class to class.

There s still another traditional

same paths of virtue.

Davidson is proud of its fighting

of the South.

SPORTSMANSHIP

By the Editor

own up, and shut up, if beaten, are the virtues of a Sporting Man.—Oliver

energy they can summons from their trained minds and bodies.
that the Davidson teams have justly won distinction as scrapping aggre-

The backs may be under weight, but they are a line-buck®
ing, end-running, pile-driving, rip-snorting crew of hustlers.

Men of Davidson revere this fighting spirit.
name of the college itself, and with the oldest traditions that have been

has never been more exemplified than during the past football season.
attribute is a virtue—it is a religion in itself—it is SPORTSMANSHIP.

The Wildcats, with all the tenacity of their namesake, have tried to
adhere to the principles of fair play.
A survey of the past season reveals the fact that the
Wildcats have cemented an amicable relationship with every opponent and
that the flag of fair play and sportsmanship is flying high.

proud of the friendly relationship she has established throughout the states

crow gently if in luck—to pay up, to

* *

win—and they fight with every jot of
We feel
it never crumbles till every ounce of

They fight

It is associated with the

attribute of a Daviduen athlete, and it
That

Their opponents have walked in the

spirit, but above everything else she is

JUN... Lhe: ieba
N. C. State =

This versatile back, whose line plunging
ability and speed have featured the attack
of the Wolfpack this year made a wonderful
showing against’ Davidson. “Monk Younger
selects him as fullback on his’ All-State
pick,

CAPT. CASEY MORRIS, End
Carolina

As an all-round end Casey has no peer in
the state. He plays a ‘consistent game all
the time and has contributed largely to Cato-
lina’s second consecutive state championship.
For two years he has been accorded a place
‘on the All-State team.

