DAVIDSON—$90,000.00
IMPROVEMENT TOWN

Che Bahidson Obserbher

=

Today—1 Page

Vol. 1. No. 4

DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 18, 1923

FOUNDED 1922

: TOWN DOTS

The many friends of Mrs. Archie Brown
will be glad to learn that she will soon be
herself again.

Miss Madge Potts has been sick for the
last week.

Dr. and Mrs. Oren Moore, of Charloite,
spent Wednesday evening in Davidson.

The son of Rev. H. H. Cassidy, of Wood-
leaf, has entered Davidson High School.

Miss Harriett Hill, who was head nurse
here during the influenza epidemic in S. A.
T. C., is spending the winter here with her
parents, Mr. and Mrs. John Till.

e

Dr. and Mrs. Robert Wood left Monday
after a pleasant visit with their son, Prof.
W. W. Wood, for their home in Charlottes-
ville, Va.

Miss Elizabeth Grey returned Monday to
New York after a month's vacation at
home.

Mr. Bassett, father of Mrs. W. L. Porter,
has been quite sick for the last few days.

The Thelmite Club was entertained Friday
evening by Misses Lizzie and Mary Young.
Dr. J. Wilson MacConnell read an interest-
ing paper on “Medical Frauds.” <A delicious
salad course brought the meeting to a close.

Miss Evelyn Potts spent the week-end in
Statesville.

Mrs. M. H. Goodrum has returned home
after spending a few days in Morganton
with her daughter, Mrs. Mundy.

The Epworth League held its regular
monthly meeting with Miss Margaret Mock.

Miss Annie McConnell, of Raleigh, has
been the charming guest of Miss Fannie
McConnell.

Mrs. Martin, of Russellville, Ark., mother
of W. F. Martin, ’26, spent the past week
in Davidson. While here she was the guest
of Dr. and Mrs. Arbuckle. Mrs. Martin re-
turned home Thursday.

Mrs. Henderson gave a reception at her
home on Main street last Wednesday eve-
ning in honor of her daughter-in-law, Mrs.
Walter Henderson. Delightful refreshments
consisting of sandwiches and tea were
served.

Mrs. Robert Harding and little son, Rob-
ert, Jr., are visiting Dr. and Mrs. C. R.
Harding.

Master Frederick Fleagle last Saturday
night entertained his friends in honor of his
12th birthday. Many games were played
by the young folks, after which delicious re-
freshments were served.

Circles Meet

All circles of Davidson met Thursday
afternoon at 4 o'clock.

Three groups are being organized for the
purpose of reading “Sunrise in Aztec Land,”
the first with Mrs, J. L. Currie, the second
with Mrs. Lingle, and the third with Mrs.

Withers. It is hoped and believed that much
interest will be manifested in this book,
which is one of the most interesting works
of the year. The author is Dr. Wm. A.
Ross.

‘The canvass for the “Missionary Survey”
is to be carried on this week. If one-fifth
of the membership of the church take the
magazine the church will secure a coveted
place on the Survey Honor Roll, and it is
hoped that many new subscriptions will be
added to the list of renewals.

Missionary Leaves

At a meeting of the auxiliary in the Civic
League hall last Thursday evening, a very
interesting program was presented. At the
close of the meeting a social hour. was held,
during which fefreshments were served. The
purpose of the social hour being in the na
ture of a farewell tendered to Miss Mary
Hill, who leaves soon for her mission post
in China. All Davidsonians are proud. of
the splendid work Miss Hill is doing, and
wish+her a safe arrival to her destination,
and that God's blessing may rest upon her.
D.

REVEREND SAMUEL POLK
DIES AT HOME INN. J.

A telegram received by J. M. Polk, of the
Sophomore class, last Friday night an-
nounced the death of his father, Rev. Samuel
Polk, of Lawrenceville, N. J. This is the
second bereavement in his family which Polk
has suffered during the past month, his
mother having died just before he reached
home for the holidays.

The death of Rev. Samuel Polk brings a
peculiar sorrow to the student body ;* sor-
row because of the loss of a man of sterling
worth to the world and one whose high
qualities have become known to the campus.
Both Mr. and Mrs. Polk will be remem-
bered by the students as visitors to the col-
lege last year.

The sympathy of the entire student body
goes out to Polk in this his double bereave-
ment. It is expected that he will return to
college to finish the year.

SSI 9 Ye eae

DR. J. W. MCCONNELL
CELEBRATES BIRTHDAY

On Thursday evening, from 8 to 12
o'clock, the home of Dr. and Mrs. J. Wilson
MacConnell was the scene of a unique social
affair. The occasion of the party was Doc-
tor MacConnell’s birthday. About 40 guests
were received by the host and many old-
fashion games were enjoyed. Old maids,
checkers, dominos, authors and heart dice
were the maii ones. The best game of all,
and the one that required the most skill and
that caused the most amusement was Jack
Straws. The winner being one of the most
prominent professors at Davidson College.

The guests were then ushered into the
beautiful decorated dining roqm. The cut-
ting of the birthday cake by Doctor Mac-
Connell caused much merriment. A false
cake was put over the real cake and the doctor
could not understand why he could not cut
it. But Mrs. MacConnell lifted the false
cake off and there appeared the beautiful
birthday cake, decorated with fern and dif-
ferent colored.candles.

After the cutting of the cake, ice cream
and cake, candy, fruit and coffee were
served. Then Master Courtney MacConnell
entered with a tray loaded with many varied
gifts and presented it to the host.

About 12 o'clock, the guests departed wish-
ing the doctor many more happy returns of

the day.
D

NAMES OF PROSPECTIVE
FRESHMEN ARE OBTAINED

One hundred and twenty-nine students
responded to Bill Cooper's call for names of
prospective students and turned in a. total
number of 221 names. North Carolina fur-
nishes 120 of the prospects, 30 of whom live
in Charlotte. South Carolina’ comes second
with 35, Georgia next with 24, and so they
range on down through Alabama, Virginia,
Mississippi, Florida, West Virginia, Louis-
iana, Kentucky, until Texas, Arkansas, New
Jersey and Washington, D. C., -hand over
only one name apiece.

Several boys turned in the names of their
brothers, including Ogden, ‘Taylor, Pomeroy,
Earnest and Mellwaine. Story will com-
plete his edifice with the arrival of tie
Lrother.

These boys are very fine maférial for they
they are the best friends of a fifth of the
student body. These are also the best in
their respective prep and high schools, being
carefully selected by men who know them.

of college activity in the group, some of the
prospects being expressly stated as good

athletes.

D.

COLLEGE MAGAZINE TO APPEAR
(Continued from Page 1)

dent body as a whole, expressing the united

sentiments of the school,

In the first issue of the magazine. work
representative, of Davidson's best poets,
and authors will appear, together with dis-
sertations, discussions and opinions. An out-
line of the contents, made up before the
magazine went to press, is as follows:

If Music Be the Soul of Love, Play on!—
Sonnet by D. A. S.?

A thrilling mystery story hy Galloway,
after the style made famous by Poe.

Ships at Sea—Short poem by D. A. S

A Midshipman’s Cruise—An intensely in-
teresting narrative by W. T. Baker con-
cerning the trans-Pacific cruise by the U. S.
N. A. midshipmen.

Autumn—A poem
Bryan.

The Man and the Domino—Another prose
poem by John Bryan.

Ptolmy the Second, by John Henry Davis
—A story with a surprise ending.

The Man Who Pays a Tribute to Dad, by
D. B. Walthall.

An Autumn Day.
Smith, ’26.

Mountain Storm, A stort story of moun-
tain folk by James Gudger.

A Falling Leaf. Poem by D. A. S.

Rich Men—A humorous dissertation on
the same by H. M. White.

The Technique of the One-Act Play, by
Prof, E. J. Cowan. An exhaustive and au-
thoritative discussion.

To Peggy on Her Birthday, by D. B. W.

Chambers—A prose tribute, by Liston El-
kins.

The Fundamental Law.
essay by H. K. Russell.

The Persian Lover. The lover proposes—
an equisite lyric, by John B. Bryan.

Politics—A story of the Southern Ap-
palachias introducing “Uncle Ben,” a quaint
politician of the caves.

by John

in prose,

A nature poem by Fred

A thoughtful

There will be good material for every form],

A burlesque sonnet by J. R. Earnest.
Book Reviews—Bobbit.and His Freedom.
Exchanges.

Jokes.

es
DR. GREENFELL TO TELL
(Continued from Page 1)
and to win their admiration, confidence and
respect,

Most of the work of Doctor Grenfell and
his associates is carried on in the summer
when traveling by sea is possible, but even in
winter the work does not stop. Though part
of the hospitals close, the work is faith-
fully carried on, and the Doctor of the In-
ternational Grenfell Association and their
helpers, wrapped in wind-proof fur robes,
travel from station to station for thousands
of miles over arctic snows, and across frozen
bays of the northern Atlantic, by means of
Eskimo dog teams.

Doctor Grenfell has long been recognized
as one of the greatest explorers and mis-
sionaries of the day, and is certainly worthy
of all the honors given him. Among the
unsought honors that have been heaped upon
him are, the only honorary M. D. which
Oxford has ever bestowed, an honorary M.
A. by Harvard, an honorary L. L. D. by
Williams, and: another M. D. by Toronto.
He is likewise a fellow of both the English
and American Colleges of Surgeons and is
one of the few medical doctors holding a
master mariner’s certificate.

D

MR. GLASGOW AT “Y”

(Continued from Page 1)
when you see it.” The speaker gave another
striking example of a strike whic hcaused
great suffering, a great loss of service, and
also a loss of millions of dollars, because
the president of a street railway was unwill-
ing to face the facts in the case.

“There is an untold benefit derived from
correct valuation. ‘The fellow who does not
realize the value of the right relations with
the people back home is sustaining a great
loss in life.

“You have a chance in college that only
two per cent of the young men of America
have. Will you realize your opportunities?
Will you cash in on your advantages?

“If you have the power to start, do not
worry about getting to your destination.
Launch out into a Christian life with what
power you have, and by the right use of that
power you will gain the momentum needed to
carry you through.

“The need of the hour is for men who
take advantage of their opportunities. “Take
advantage of these opportunities to tell
others about Christ. There are boys here,
and everywhere today, who want to know
about Him. You know about Him, tell
them.”

Mr. Glasgow called attention to the fact

that Roger W. Babson, the famous statis-
tician, in making his report to men who
thought only in dollars and cents, said : “The
world’s greatest asset is religion; the world’s
greatest security is religion, and the world’s
greatest danger is lack of religion.”

“The call of the day is for young men of
character, for strong, fearless men, who
purpose to live for Christ.”

T).
COURT OF CONTROL
(Continued from Page 1)

This was modified by the student body to the
effect that no Freshman should go in the
postoffice between breakfast and chapel.
Another ruling of the board is that no
Freshman shall walk on the grass. For a
long time the grass on the campus has been
disappearing due to the promiscuous tramp-
ling of the students, and lately several paths
have been ‘made which mar its beauty. It
was decided that this ruling would materially
lessen the number who might walk on it
and at the same time could call it to the at-
tention of the rest of the students.

The Court of Control will have regular
meetings and will function as strictly as
possible. It is here to attend to the con-
duct of the Freshmen and to protect upper
classmen from any insubordination. Not only
will it strive to keep the Freshmen in order,
singly and collectively, but it is ready and
willing to help any one of them in any case
that may arise. Its primary purpose is to
do away with hazing and it is doing its best
to institute a new feeling which will pro-
mote a class and college spirit better than
hazing ever did.

The personnel of the Board of Control is
as follows: Seniors—J. M. Adams, J. H.
Davis, L. W. Dick and W. J. Richards;
Juniors—R. R. Jones and J. I. Smith;
Sophomores—J. R. Briggs and D. M. Mc-
Comb.

VICTROLAS

New VICTOR
RECORDS Every
Two Weeks

EVERYTHING IN FURNITURE

People’s Home
Furnishing Co.

MOORFSVILLE, N. C.

“Taste the

Electrik Maid BREAD
PIES---CAKES---BUNS |

Electrik Maid Bake Shop

MOORESVILLE, N. C.

Dif ference”

Saturday, January
8:15 P. M.

SHEARER HALL

the

[th

All Seats Reserved

SEAT SALE FRIDAY THE 26th
White Drug Company

The Davideoms Ai Glee Club

PRESENTS THE

G.C.U. Glee Ciud

A Novel and Interesting Programme
Vocal—lInstrumental

ae eeeessccsessecesscccecsces seensnnest: oeseesessss:

TWENTY BEWITCHING BEAUTIES

eodccsccscccscscssccccscssccseceeeccscseescscacccscess:

pitt SSSESSEREERESSSSGAESERSSEsesseteseesesssstassessess tsessetsesseseesstscescesess

