THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 3, 1923

RED AND BLACK MACHINE PREPARES FOR

BANNER SEASON

Monk Younger and Tex Tilson
to Coach Large Squad of
Promising Material.

As the collegiate year draws to a close
the Wildcat, in his lair, is busily engaged
in sharpening his claws for the 1928 foot-
ball season. The next year will be a
crucial period in Davidson athletics and
Red and Black followers everywhere are

‘set for a winning season.

Coach Monk Younger and his assist-
ant, Tex Tilson take up their duties offi-
cially on September 1, but at present
Monk’s plans are well formulated and
when he assumes his duties in the fall, it
will not be as a man unacquainted with
conditions but as a coach who has kept
in touch with his material during the
summer, |

With Monk in charge and Tex training
the forwards, the Wildcats will be ably
coached and unwilling to predict defeats
in any of the ten contests slated. Ten
letter men return as a nucleus and in ad-
dition, many scrubs and men from this
year’s Freshman team.

Lias Faison will lead the team in action
from one flank, while his running mate,
Nappy Davis, will line up at the other
end. In case either of these scrapping
wingmen is out, Don Mallory is well able
to take care of an end.

Two tackles, Warren Cox and Mapta-
gue Clark return but only one other
linesman will be back in harness. Mason
Fields who plays either at guard or at the
pivot position will be back to tear up the
opposition.

Four letter men return in the back-
field. Gig Shepherd, who for the last
three years has been an indispensible
cog in the Electric machine will wind up
his grid career next fall, and hopes to
fulfill his ambition of beating the Purple
Hurricane of Furman. Jim Hendrix,
the scrappy little Wildcat field general
will be back at quarter and with his ad-
ded experience will bear watching.

Popsy Hunt whose irresistible drive
tore great holes through the opposing de-
fense and Doc DeArmon whose great de-
fensive play featured the V. P. I. game
are the two other.letter men returning.

The most promising of this year’s
scrubs are Ballard, Boggs, Covington,
McComb and Smith in the backfield.
Crown Prince Young, Patterson, White
and Briggs in the line will make every
one hustle for their positions.

The most promising material comes
from this year’s Freshman class. Laird
and Black in the backfield and Linda-
mood and Potts in the line are the most
likely looking candidates. Among the
other Freshmen are McMillan, Sappen-
field, Anderson, Cox, Williams, Johnson,
Vance, Alford, Baker and McDonald.

The schedule for 1923 has two changes.
Citadel and Clemson are substituted for
Georgia Tech and Wofford. The sched-
ule for the season follows:

Davidson College 1928 Football
Schedule. ;

Sept. 28—Elon College at Davidson.

Sept. 80—Presbyterian College of
South Carolina at Rock Hill, S. C.

Oct. 6—V. P. I. at V. P. I.

Oct. 18——Citadel at Davidson.

Oct. 20—Wake Forest at Charlotte.

Oct. 24—Furman University at Co-

_lumbia (S, C. State Fair).
Nov. 8—N. C. State at Charlotte.
Noy. 10—Clemson at Clemson.

-}and onlookers.

UNDER COACH YOUNGER

SOPHS.AND FRESHMEN
LEAD CLASS BASEBALL

The class baseball series is at last in
full swing. Two games have been
played, and although no team has shown
any exceptional baseball ability the games
have been interesting both to the players
The first of these games
between the Sophomores and Juniors re-
sulted in a 8-8 victory for the Sophs. The
second game between the Freshmen and
Senior, the Fresh came out victorious by
the lop-sided score of 12-2.

SOPH-JUNIOR GAME

The Juniors drew first blood, by scoring
in the-third frame, but the Sophs soon
forged ahead by scoring two runs in the
third. The Juniors did not manage to
shove over any more tallies until the
sixth, but the Sophs had a big inning in
the fourth when they scored four runs,
giving them a safe lead which was never
overcome. The Sophs had another big
inning in the seventh when they hit
Curdts hard and scored their last two
runs. For the Juniors, Smith at -first
and Hodgin in rightfield played a good
game. For the Sophomores, Alexander
pitched a good game of ball and Hendrix
at catcher and Simpson at second played
their positions well.

Sophomore ----- 002 004 020—9 8 4
Junlor, cose. cece 020 000 100—6 2 6
Batteries: Alexander and Hendrix;

Curdts and Keels.

FRESH-SENIOR GAME

In a game which developed into a slug
fest the Fresh defeated the Seniors 12-2
in a slow game Friday afternoon. Each
team used three pitchers, the Seniors
using theirs because of the excessive hit-
ting ability of the Fresh, and the Fresh
in order to save their men for the games
this week.

The Seniors drew first blood by scor-
ing one run in the first. inning when Dick
scored on George McCutcheon’s three-
bagger. The Fresh soon evened things
up in the third and fourth when they
scored four runs. In the fourth McLeod
relieved Currie, and after walking two
men was relieved by George McCutcheon,
Bob admits that he pitched a no-hit
game. The Fresh after this were un-
able to score again until the seventh
when they went around four times. They
also scored two runs in both the eighth
and ninth. The Seniors scored again in
the sixth and Gibson staged a solitary
rally when he got on, on an error and by
good base running advanced to third,
and then went home on a wild pitch.

For the Seniors George McCutcheon
played a good game as catcher and later
as pitcher, giving up three hits. For the
Freshmen Hull pitched a good game and
Barron and Laird also pitched good ball.
Long at third played a fine game, getting
three hits and handling every chance
successfully. Kugler handled the first
base sack well and Bachman played good
ball at second.

Fresh 002 200 422-12 9 9
Senior 100 010 001— 2 8 4
Batteries: Huie, Laird, Barron. and

Black, Hovis; Currie, McLeod, McCutch-
eon and Weeks.

D——__

Laird is-at present connected with the
Westinghouse Electric Company at Chat-
tanooga, Tenn,, having charge of construc-
tion work, He is still making his mark as
he did at Davidson where he was president
of the “D” club, member of the St. Cece-
lia Society, and a member of the Kappa
Sigma fraternity. So far he has evaded all
matrimonial snares and is content to pursue
his solitary way unaided and unobstructed.

“A POINTER FROM THE
DAVIDSONIANS”

Beginning with the V. P. I. game Wed-
nesday, there are eight games to be staged
on the campus in the following two
weeks. During this time. Clemson. will
be host to many athletes. from other
schools, These athletes are representa-
tives, as it were, of their respective
schools, and they should be accorded
treatment as same. Consequently the
student body at Clemson should exert
themselves in every way possible to make
the stay of the visitors on the campus
pleasant,

The opinion the visitors form of us
will follow them back to their own col-
leges, and we should make the reports
they carry back with them profitable to
Clemson. A very good example of this
mode of conduct is found in the student
body of Davidson. In every way, visitors
on the campus at Davidson are made to
feel at home, and to feel as if they were
welcome guests, and not intruders. The
Tiger track squad is very enthusiastic
in its praise of the treatment accorded
them in Davidson Jast week, and every
member of the squad is looking forward
to another trip to that school. Why not
have other schools think this of Clemson?
This is our home for four years. Let’s
make it a home in the true sense of the
word,

In the next two weeks let every man
be on the job in building up a name for
Clemson for friendliness and courtesy.
The team will do their part. Let’s do
ours!

—C&EMSON TIGERS,

(Locat NoteE—From the reports brought
back to Davidson by the basketball and
baseball teams this season, Clemson has
nothing to fear with regard to the im-
pression she makes with visiting teams.
Her’s is a true Southern hospitality that
would be a credit to any college in the

nation.)
T).

BLEACHER BULL

Five out of six—keep it up, Wildcats.

Tennis champs of South Carolina and
Virginia already.. Lets get North Caro-
lina next.

Capt. Pat has started on his annual
batting spree. A‘home run, a triple, and
a double, not to speak of the singles isn’t
so bad for two games. r

“Babe Ruth” Marrow is lucky again
with another “Home run” through the
centerfielders legs. It counts one run
just the same though.

Chandler of Clemson, the piece of
greezed lightning that ran away from
everything up here in the hundred and
two-twenty did the ditto act down at the
Tech Relays. Miss. A. & M. won first in
the day’s events, Ga. Tech second, and
Clemson third.

That must have been a great game that
Bascomb pitched down at Clemson, only
four hits and nine strikeouts. That’s
the strikeout record for the season in the
Wildcat den, so far.

V. P..I, picked up a little after they
decamped from Sprunt Field. The next
two days saw them frock Wofford and
Clemson. They traveled South just one
day ahead of the Wildcats.

Carolina’s victory over, Virginia, in
Greensboro Saturday, makes the seventh
straight win for the Tar Heels over the
Old Dominion in three yéars. ‘

Elon broke -her long losing streak last
week with a victory over Lenoir. Trinity
followed suit and beat. Lenoir, 9-0. It
was Trinity’s tenth consecutive win. By
this time they will have had a chance to
do the same with the Red and Black, if
they are men enough.

As this is the last issue of the David-
sonian this year the athletic department
wishes to express its appreciation to
Coach Grey for all that he has done as
Head Coach during the last three years.
Goodbye “Wooly”, and good luck.

CAPTAIN PAT'S WRECKING CREW EMBARKS
ON THREE GAME VIRGINIA TOUR

WILDCAT SPEEDSTERS
TO CHAPEL HILL MEET

The triangular track meet with Guil-
ford and Elon having been called off ac-
count Elon’s inability to report, Coach
Grey: last week cut down his material to
those men whom he expects to take to the
State Olympic Meet and has been busy
out on Sprunt Field putting the final
touches on the squad of eight that will
represent Davidson in the last entries of
the season.

The Red and Black tracksters left the
hill Thursday for the week-end meet,
which will be held in Chapel Hill this
year, and for the small number entering
in a big field, expect to do Davidson
proud by coming in for third ahead of
Trinity.

Eight men will represent the Red
and Black in the state classic this season.
Davidson will not be entered in the dashes
or two mile, as nothing outstanding has
shown up in these departments this
year, but will expect to do her scoring
in field and middle distance events, in
which she compares favorably with the
other schools in the state.

Gracey, who is the veteran of many
meets, will shoulder Davidson’s respon-
sibility in several events, featuring in the
high hurdles. “Versatility” will prob-
ably enter six events at the meet—high
hurdles, in which he should be number
one, pole vault, in which comes next to
Streibich, a favorite, high jump, broad
jump, shot put and javelin. Gracey has
a wonderful opportunity to be high point
man if he can place in all events he en-
ters.

McComb and Lindamood will heave the
weights for Davidson. These two men
have been consistent point gatherers in
the dual meets and McComb has been up
around the state record several times
this year with the javelin. Lindamood
will specialize with shot and discus.

Of course, this years record breakers
will be there and going up after the state
records in pole vault and high jump. Cal-
houn will enter the favorite in high jump
and Streibich will be after Ranson’s (of
Carolina) recent record of 11 feet 5%
inches in the pole vault.

Jim Hendrix showing up better in the
440 than he has in the dashes, which he
has run so far this season, will do the
quarter mile with the hopes of bringing
his Wildcat through in one of the first
four places.

One of the prettiest and fastest races
of the meet should be in the mile run.
Ranson of Carolina ran the four laps in
4:36 in a dual meet between Carolina
and Trinity last Saturday but “Spark
Plug” McConnell who has been running
the mile in as little as he has to will bea
strong contender for honors for David-
son. McConnell is after breaking another
Davidson record, and has come to a tie in
the mile event already this season.

Galloway, Captain of the Red andy
Black aggregation,will do the middle dis-
tance for Davidson. Last year Galloway
ran even with Cox of Carolina, ex-Yale
star, in the 880 yard run at 2:03 and is
out to break the tie this year. Galloway
is dependable.

State, Carolina, Trinity, Wake Forest,
Davidson and Elon are slated to appear
in the annual classic with State and Caro-
lina holding an edge by virtue of the time
and distance records made already this
year. Carolina’s field at. Chapel Hill is
an excellent trysting place and under fair
weather conditions a fast, hard meet
should ensue. j

1.

Cynical Cyrus says: “A girl that gets
hair bobbed ought to be switched, 0)

her
she

jon.”

will as soon as it gets out of f i

Red and Black Pill Tossers Meet
V. P. I. and Virginia During
Week,

Hitting the old apple in great style
and playing in midseason form, Coach
Currie’s Wildcats are planning for the
Virginia trip with great hopes of adding
to the string of victories. The trip in-
cludes games with V. P. I., at Blacksburg,
V. M. I., at Lexington, and Virginia, at
Charlottesville.

The game with V. M. I. promises to be
the hardest of the three. Virginia seems
to have a weak team, while the Wildcats
have already proven that they can fight
V. P. I. as well on the diamond as on the
gridiron.

To date V. M. I. has won from the Uni-
versity of New York, Virginia, Johns
Hopkins, Richmond University and
Hampden-Sidney and lost to Amherst and
Cornell. Buck’s batters will have to hit
some to come out at the long end of the
score in this game, but they seem to have
developed this habit of late.

Virginia seems to have won but one
game this season. They split even with
Washington and Lee but lost to V. M. I.,
Richmond, Princeton and Carolina. This
should prove the easiest game on the en-
tire trip, but the game with Carolina
seemed to be a great improvement over
the brand of ball that this aggregation
has been putting out, so the Davidsonians
will-have to play ball to keep the Virgin-
ians from adding them to the meager list
of their victims,

V. P. I. has no'slouchy team in spite of
the game played here. They have lost
two games to date, one to Davidson and
one to Dartmouth. On the other hand
they have defeated Roanoke, Wofford
and Clemson, while two of their stiffest
games have been rained out.

This trip promises to be one of the
bright spots in the season if the team
plays the brand of ball of which they
have shown themselves capable when
called on. But none of the three games
is a sure thing. A victory from any one
of these teams will be a feather in the
hats of the Davidson outfit and will raise
them in the eyes of the dopesters,

This Virginia trip is the best of the
season and the whole crew can be counted
on for some hard work in the meantime.
These games will draw as much attention
as any Davidson plays this season. The
student body is hoping for great things
from this series.

pL SS » eet Sea
ELON AND GUILFORD
CANCEL TRACK MEET

Davidson track enthusiasts were dis-
appointed when the triangular track
meet, scheduled to be held April 27, ‘was
called off. This meet was to be between
Guilford, Elon and Davidson.

Early in the track season, negotiations
were started by Guilford for such a meet.
Elon, it is stated, desired to come, but,
due to expenses, had to withdraw at the
last minute.

Guilford had planned to enter only cer-
tain events, and upon-Elon’s withdrawal,
thought it best to call the meet off en-
tirely,

Fans were disappointed at the out-
come, but the track team used the rest
and extra time to good advantage in
preparation for the state meet t< be held
April 5.

pee LaaeaDe Sp HAs

“I want a shave,” said the determined-

looking man as he climbed into a chair in

‘ the Barber Shop. “I don’t want a haircut

nor a shampoo. Neither do I want any

‘bay rum, witch hazel hair tonic, hot. towels,

or face massage.

