N

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 8, 1923

ATHLETICS

; TOURNAMENT DOPE ~

NICHES IN THE WILDCAT
HALL OF FAME

Most of the games in the big tournament
:in Atlanta ran pretty true to form, with the
“big exception of the defeat of the Tar Heels
“by the University of Mississippi. Perhaps if
North Carolina had lost a couple of games
just before going to Atlanta they would
hhave fought harder and had more success.
‘Georgia Tech. got into the semi-finals, and
yet she had lost five in a row before enter-
ing the tournament.~ There is a-whole tot
in knowing there is a hard job before you
and then bucking down to it.

That Georgia-Georgia Tech game must
have been a corker. One of the largest
crowds that have ever attended a basket-
hall game in the country packed the Atlanta
Auditorium — eight thousand howling
maniacs. ‘Tech started off with a rush, and
at the half-way mark led, 16-17. Georgia
thad made only one field goal, Gurr’s foul
shooting accounting for the rest. In the
second stanza the Bullfrogs came back
ferocious and played Tech off her feet; but
the lead was too big to overcome and the
game ended 27-22.

After Tech snake-danced around Five
Points and raised a rumpus generally, but
there was none of that rowdyism and scrap-
ping between the supporters of the two
schools that so many had prophesized.

The game was clean and a clean spirit pre-
wailed when it was over. ,And yet a row of
five years back keeps these two institutions
from getting together in what would be one
of the classics of the South—in football,
basketball and baseball.

Miss, A. & M. walked off with the tourna-
ment in fine style, beating Chattanooga in
the finals by a ten-point margin. On the

i THE

Central Cafeteria
“On the Square”

Entrance Next to
United Cigar Store
on Trade and Tryon

pf ANISH IR RIRBREG RS (-
“EQUIPMENT for EVERY SPORT” @

BASE BALL

SHOES GLOVES MITTS
BATS

We sell the

Spalding
Harry C. Lee
Wright & Ditson

RACKETS

Also the
Dayton Steel Racket

We Restring Rackets

Davidson Agency is
COMMISSARY

No. 10—John McKinley Black,
19

D*** Football
D** Baseball

John McKinley Black, of Harrisburg and
Davidson, N. C., matriculated at Davidson in
the fall of 1914, and before the fall was over
had made a name for himself by his spec-
tacular-work onthe. gridiron.

For three years Jack played half on the
Wildcat machine, and whenever two or three
yards were needed for a first down it was
he who carried the ball and made the
distance. Five feet, eight inches tall and
weighing 180 pounds, he ploughed his way
through the line time after time for touch-
downs, During the three years from 1914
to 1916 the Red and Black lost only seven
games, and Jack starred in all of the fifteen
victories. His drive and power were a big
factor in the Red Machine’s record, and he
will always be remembered at Davidson as
the greatest line-plunger that ever donned
a Red and Black uniform.

Jack held down the hot corner on the
diamond, during the same three years in sen-
sational style, and was captain of the team
in 717. During the season of 1916 the Wild-
cat nine won 14 out of 16 college games,
losing one game to Maryville and one to
Trinity, but taking the series from the
Methodists by two victories.

Jack was not a member of the famous
team of '17, for he had enlisted during the
summer and received his 2nd Lieutenant’s
commission in the Field Artillery. The next
year he crossed over and soon after his
arrival was promoted and made Ist Lieut.

Returning from the war zone, Jack came
back to Davidson to finish his college course.
Again in 1919 he starred on the gridiron,
but injuries kept him out of a large num-
ber of games. To this fact is partly due
the mediocre record, for with Jack on the
sidelines the Wildcat offense was materially
weakened. He recovered from his injuries
in time to play in the Furman game on
Turkey Day, and scored a touchdown against
the Purple Hurricane in the 41-14 Davidson
victory—the last time the Purple Hurricane
has been stopped by the Wildcat’s claws.

After graduating Jack entered business
and is now living in Greenville, S. C.

T).

SCHEDULE ARRANGED
FOR CLASS FOOTBALL

With’ the election of managers from the
four classes, class football practice is under
way, preparatory to the spring season which
opens March 23. Uniforms and equipment
have been issued to the numerous aspirants
by Coach Grey, and daily practices are in
order, under the guiding hand of the Varsity
squad. Predictions are out of order as yet,
but a lively tournament is easily foreseen.

Managers are:

Seniors—W. S. Shyshard
Juniors—C, A. Young
Sophs—H. I. Shephard
Fresh—Tom Baker

The schedule follows:

Fresh vs. Sophs—Friday, March 23.

Juniors vs. Seniors—Saturday, March 24.

Fresh vs. Juniors—Friday, March 30. :

Sophs vs. Seniors—Saturday, March 31.

Sophs vs. Juniors—Friday, April 6.

Fresh vs. Seniors—Saturday, April 7.
T).

I do the very best I know how—the very
best I can; and I mean to keep doing so until
the end. If the end brings me out all right,
what is said against me won’t amount to
anything; if the end brings me out wrong,
ten thousand angels swearing I was right
would make no difference.

—Abraham Lincoln.

same night Mercer surprised a lot of people
by defeating Tech for third place.

Bill Redd, of Chattanooga, was about the
best the tournament produced. In the -V.
P. S. game that Chattanooga won, 38-23,
the lanky center made 22 points, only one

register; and V. P. I.

Redd ~ ! point man of the tourna- oad ripe eid at egteoed N.C. 50 CHOICE TERRITORY
ment, if Lindsey, of Wofford, had lay lon at Elon, N. UTHERN LIFE AND
played on a team that could have stuck with|] May 8—Virginia at Charlotteville, Va. ro Bartell Gale COMPANY
the bunch, the tale may have been different.|| May 9—V. M. I. at Lexington, Va. “The Mult ai ee
eliminated, be sade 23 potnts vated the|| May 12—Cuilford at Davide’ a ae ee
ints and at Dar ‘
scoring for the first two days. © <2 atat Mite Hath oes lke csr Atssmmelt thane aed et |

ul
ae

|

iE O00 Goo Bommm oo ee =
TRACK PROSPECTS GOOD

FOR BANNER SEASON

For the past week there has been a large
number of men out for track in response to
Captain Galloway’s call last Monday:
morning. A greater number than ever be- |
fore reported for the first pratice, and as’
the week progressed the number increased |
so much that the prospects for a winning |
team look very good.

Most likely, the team will be composed!
mainly of new material from the Freshman |
class, as there are only five letter men back
from last year. The services of a star dash
man, Ted Koenig, who recently underwent
an operation for appendicitis, will be greatly
missed.

The list of aspirants includes five letter
men—Captain Galloway, Gracey, Dick, Mc-
Combs and Striebeck. Aside from these, the
-old men out are Hendrix, Gordon, Matthews,
Parish, Davidson, Calhoun and Regen.
Among the new men are Selzer, Williford,
Lindamood, Bouvier, Jones, Anderson,
Crane, Alexander, Causey and Falls.

The weights will be well taken care of
by Regen, Gracey, McCombs and Lindamood.
All save Lindamood have proven their worth
here, and Lindamood came with a brilliant
record in shot-putting, discuss and javelin.
Gracey is the holder of the college record,
for the javelin throw. ‘

The hurdle men are showing class already,
and with Dick, Gracey, Striebech and Ravish
as a nucleys, ought to set the pace for the
men in the other events to follow.

The jumpers and pole vaulters give’
promise of making records for themselves
and Davidson this year.

Aside from Davidson, Striebech, Calhoun
and Gracey, the old men, there are Anderson ,
and Crane, who are showing up well.
Anderson represented Staunton Military
Academy in the pole vault last year.

Dash men and distance runners are in
prominence. The dashes have Hendrix,
Gordon and Matthews, and the Freshmen,
Jones and Bouvier. In the longer distances
are Galloway on the four-forty, and Selzer |
and Williford on the one and two mile runs. |
These last two mentioned showed up well in
the cross country run held at Chapel Hill
last fall,

Judging from the quantity, as well as’
quality, of material, Davidson is destined to |
make a record this year. Manager-Captain |
Galloway has a schedule mapped out that

will require some real work.
D

HIGH SCHOOL CONTESTS
AROUSE MUCH INTEREST

Mooresville-Charlotte Game |

In one of the fastest and most exciting |
games seen on the local court this season, |
Mooresville High Schol defeated Charlotte |
High Schol 31-24 last week. This game |
was one of the third round games of the |
state championship, the winner playing Ash- |
ville here Saturday for a place in the semi-|
finals. : : |

Harnel, of Charlotte, started off the scor- |
ing with a field goal, but Hartness, of
Mooresville, soon overcame this lead with a
foul and a field goal in quick succession.
From then on Mooresville was never headed,
Greshaw, Evans and Hartness scoring point |
after point for their team. The Mooresville
team showed wonderful passing~ ability
throughout the game, but made nearly every
chance at the basket count in their favor.

Hornel and Ware, of Charlotte, showed

Baseball Schedule for 1923 |

March 30—Oak Ridge at Davidson |
March 31—Oak Ridge at Davidson |
April 2—Carolina at Gastonia, N. C. |
April 3—Furman at Davidson

April 7—Trinity at Davidson

April 9—N. C. State at Davidson
April 14—Wake Forest at Davidson
April 17—Wofford at Davidson
April 18—Wofford at Davidson {
April 21—Elon at Davidson

April 23—V. P. I. at Davidson

April 25—Wofford at Spart’nb’g, S. C.
April 26—Clemson at Clemson, S. C.
April 27—Furman at Greenville, S. C.
May 1—N. C. State at Raleigh, N. C.

xKoa—

wearing, just notice this:

long time.

b

If they fit well at just three spots—the heel, the
instep and the toes—they will not look old for a

If they do not fit well there, they will break down
and look old in a short time.

Try Hendrix Shoes next time.
they fit and how long they last.

J. M. HENDRIX & CO.

“THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES”

GREENSBORO, N. C.

On Your Way Through
A Pair of Shoes

-On your way through the shoes you are now

See how well

—— at

—

xx

up well, but both seemed to have trouble in
finding the basket until the last quarter, when
Charlotte started a rally that nearly put
them in the lead. Starting off at the begin-
ning of the second half with a crippled
team, and with Mooresville five. points in
the lead, Charlotte came from behind and
nearly swamped the Mooresville team with
their aggressive tactics, but during this time
Mooresville kept plugging, and when the final
whistle blew they had the large end of a
31-25 score.

The line-up:

CHARLOTTE (25) M’R'SVILLE (31)

Ware (13)........ Ly Ficus ees Hartness (9)
Horvel (8)....... Risky cain Gresham (6)
MOPFIS Gir cise s b:sis38 (Oe irartnaicn Evans (8)
Norris (4)........ eGricers Carrigon (4)
Kearns .......... RGiteniaent Brown (4)

Asheville-Mooresville Game

Last Saturday on the local court Ashe-
ville High School defeated the Mooresville
High outfit by the lop-sided score of 35-11.
Asheville seemed to have their less experi-
enced opponents guessing fromthe first.
They started off with a rush which swept

‘everything before them and left the Moores-

ville warriors on the little end of the lop-
sided score.

James, of Asheville, led his team, and with
his running mate, Nixon, accounted for
thirty-six of their teams points. Chakales,
the super-athlete of Asheville, also played
a good game at guard. While not spectacu-
lar in the least, he played a steady game,
making many a Mooresville try at goal
count for naught.

Hartness, of Mooresville, played a good
uphill game, but the weight and experience
of his opponents were too much for him and
he only got seven points; at that he was high
point man on his team. Evans, the tall
center of Mooresville, did not display his
usual brand of basket-ball, but he succeeded
in caging the ball twice for his team’s other
point.

The line-up:

ASHEVILLE (35) MOORESVILLE (11)

JamesiC1Q)Miscicssccsecseess Hartness (7)
INIXONACIA) ic oas vakerencciseroeterr Carrigan
Brandt: (2) scsecsrseesseusccaes Evans (4)
Greehenranteci as caseuteusste neste Brown
Chakales ............ccesee eevee Ferguson

Referee: Carboy, Elon.

DAFFY DITTIES

Two Winthrop girls sat serenely on a divan,
when up walked a Davidson boy named
Biddle;

He thought the damsels looked lonely, and he
knew he was, so he asked if he might sit
in the middle.

As Winthrop girls always do, they glanced
about, and seeing no matron said, “Of
course you may.”

Biddle felt that a great moment was near,
and gathering all his nerve took the seat
right away.

>

At Winthrop, you know, the rules are rather
strict, and the girls are deprived of most
of their joys;

And of course it sounds cruel, and I guess
it is, but they are seldom allowed to talk
to boys.

The two girls’ hearts beat fast for they
knew this was unusual for Winthrop life.

Biddle, of course, felt that a great moment
was at hand, and thought this a good
chance to select a wife.

The girls. gained, and were shooting ques-
tions about his work, asking if he danced,
or if he was a good athlete;

Biddle proudly stated that he got out of his
exams, but humbly confessed that he made
a poor showing shaking his feet.

They giggled when he told he was a minis-
terial chap. They said, “Then guess you
are too good to even smoke a pipe.”

Now Biddle thought he was going some, but
not so, the girls were calmly deciding he
wasn't their type. :

They continued to be nice for awhile, but
they soon got tired of sitting there and
putting up a bluff,

For they knew quite well they were being
bored, and of the Davidson boy they had
enough,

Biddle had forgotten what he had meant to
say, though it all had been gentle and mild.

Hard luck for him that the girls were fresh-
men, and of course they prefer them young
and wild.

And so with expressions of regret they
dashed away,

Even while the sun was still bright in its ray;

Leaving poor dumb-founded Biddle still in
the middle

With blank space on each side, for the girls
left him to go on a ride.

BECAUSE—

, Athletes Make Good As Salesme

They have the natural training
They know how to think and act
They understand what it is to “fight

Some of this Company's most successful representa-
tives learned their first lessons on the gridiron and diamond.
Our Agents’ Training School Did the Rest.

LIBERAL CONTRACTS

y.
through.”

’

