8

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 12, 1923

CAROLINA CONCERT CLUB TO|
APPEAR HERE SOON |

Splendid Musical Program to be |
Presented

'

The Carolina Concert Club which appears |
at Shearer Hall, October 22nd, has made |
an enviable reputation as a musical creante|
zation since its first public appearance two |
years ago. During the past season this or- |
ganization gave several concerts in Char-
lotte and nearby towns and was one of the |
main features on the program of the Made-
in-Carolinas Exposition and the Automobile

Show.

Plans are now being made for a!
series of concerts during the coming winter |
in some of the principal cities of North and |
South Carolina.

Wherever the club has appeared it has
won enthusiastic applause and music lovers |
have expressed much praise forthe pro-
grams rendered. Visiting artists who have |
heard the club in concert have declared that
its work is equal to that of similar clubs in

r

ville; to the groom-to-be, by Mr. W. J.
Johnston, of Mooresville; to the girls-left-

|town guests were Miss Margaret White, Mr.
W. C. Johnston, Jr., Miss Mary Johnston,
Mr. W. J. Johnston, Mr. and Mrs. W. N.

ville; Mrs. W. N. Thompson, of Charlotte,
and Messrs. J. D. and L. Hobbs, of Mt.
Holly.

WILDCAT’S OPPONENTS
SHOW GREAT STRENGTH

The football season so far may be called
a complete success. The Wildcat whirlwind
beat Elon 19 to 0 in a slow game featured
by the brilliant aerial attack of the Wild-
cats and the line plunging of Black.

next game was a grim battle with P. C. It

Miss Grace Kohn, soprano, member of , Miss Christine Smith, contralto, who will was only by a thrilling last quarter finish

the Carolina Concert Company, who

will sing in Shearer Hall next week.

our largest musical centers, and have voiced | —_

their appreciation of the wonderful training |

displayed. }day night in the reception room of the gym-
The director, Mrs. Coral H. Baker, is one |"@sium. When it comes to having a real

of the best chorus directors in the South, and | social time, in the right way, this class has

the manner in which she handles the club in | Proven itself worthy of upholding the repu-

concert indicates the thoroughness of her | t#tion of all such previous entertainments

knowledge of music and its interpretation.

In addition to the 10 members of the
club and Mrs. Baker, there will be several
Charlotte ladies appearing on the program.
They are some of the most, popular singers
and musicians in that city.

Tickets will be on sale at White Drug
Company, Monday, October 22nd, or may be
obtained from Ted Jones, at 107 West Dor-
mitory. Admission will be 50 cents.

C. E. CLASS ENJOYS PEPPY
ENTERTAINMENT

The familiar saying, “It takes eating to
have a good time,” was tested out by the
Christian Endeavor Expert Class last Satur-

"held. The sandwiches, cold drinks, fruits,
cakes and peanuts that were served as re-
freshments were enjojyed by all.

The most interesting event of the evening
came when cach man present introduced him-
self, telling his name and home. It was
found that each of the Southern states were
well represented. During this time each
man tried to keep any of the refreshments
from wasting. Meanwhile jokes caused much
laughter and merriment.

In order that the merriment of the even-
ing might be complete the remainder of the
progrim was devoted to songs and yells,
which includes The Good Old Ship of Zion,
with its inumerable verses, and other favor-
The
banded with the Mizpah benediction.

ite songs of the campus. class dis-

ANNOUNCING AGENCY FOR DAVIDSON

MAYHEW’S CLEANING WORKS

SERVICE 2nd Floor Knox Bldg. SATISFACTION

BELK BROS. CO.

Clothing Department

Weare showing a complete line College Boys’
Suits, Hats and Furnishing Goods at ‘attrac-
tive prices. Come in and see what wonderful
values we have to offer.

YOUNG MEN’S HAND-TAILORED SUITS
Schloss, Styleplus and Belk hand-tailored
Suits made in the Season’s Newest Patterns
and Materials at

$25.00, $29.50, $35.00, and $39.50.

NEW FELT HATS
New Fall Hats in Snappy Shapes and Patterns
$2.95, $3.95, $4.95, and $7.00

MEN’S DRESS SHIRTS
Men’s fine dress shirts made of best grade
Percal and Madras, made with and without

collars.
98c, $1.50, and $2.00
MEN’S TIES

Silk and Knit Ties, new shapes and beautiful

colors.
48c, 75c, 98c, and $1.50
MEN’S UNDERWEAR

Men’s Nainsook unionsuits, all sizes
48c, 63c, 98c

Men’s medium weight unionsuits

98c, $1.25, $1.50
MEN’S HOSIERY

Men’s ltsle hose, all the leading colors

- 25c and 35c
48c, 85c, $1.00

_Men’s silk sox

’

sing with the Carolina Concert Com- that Davidson triumphed by a score of 3 to
. .

pany in their concert before a David- 0. The two teams were about evenly’match-

son audience, at an early date. ed both in weight and fighting spirit. The

behind, by Miss Susie Brady. The out-of- |

Johnston, and Mrs. J. A. White, of Moores- |

The,

| school are employes of the mill,

dig ‘ :
| coffee and mints. At the punch bowl the|of Davidson. Six men go there and they
| following toasts were given: To the bride-|repurt an average attendance of about 50.
|to-be, by Mrs. W. N. Johnston, of Moores- | This is cne of the most progressive of cur

missions,

The group going to Cornelius is about the
next largest, there being five men. This
also has a large attendance and is another
pregressive school,

Two go to Brawley’s, about four miles
beyond Mooresville. This was established by
Davidson students several years ago and
someone from the college has been going
there ever since. It is now a mission of the
First Presbyterian Church of Mooresville.

A group of four, under A, M. Martin,
goes to the convict camp, located near Cor-
uclius. They report that the conviets: take
a great interest and encouraging results are
obtained. They always have a full a:tend-
anee,

Mr. Jackson has charge of the work at
the mill chapel, of which Marion Murray is
student superintendent. The members of this
Tt is @ inis-
sion of the local Presbyterian Church,

Nine Nevers

broken field running of Pearce was the fea-

ture for P.C. The playing of the Da-) NEVER—
a hi N. vidson backfield was like a smooth running 1. Talk while others are reading.
own ews piece of machinery. In the line Summers 2. Leave a stranger without a seat.
was a veritable stone wall. It was very sel- 3. Laugh at the mistakes of others.
The home of Captain and Mrs. Murray H. ‘dom that the Davidson line was penetrated. | 4. Answer questions addressed to others.
Ellis, on Concord street, was the scene of a Only once was the Davidson. goal in danger.! 5. Whisper or laugh during puiblic wor-
most delightful affair on Friday afternoon P. C. missed a field goal by inches, David- | ship. : :
between 3:30 and 6:00, when Miss Orrie #0 then marched straight up the field to the, 6. Make yourself the hero of your own
Steele and Mrs, Ellis entertained in honor 10-yard line. Then Popsy Hunt won fame | Story. ; :
of Miss Ruby Maxwell, sister of Mrs. Ellis, | by putting the ball straight between the posts | 7% Try to hear others engaged in private
and Miss Jessie Stokes, of Meadville, Tenn, | for 4 field goal. 23 : | conversation. ; ;
| These young ladies will be the guests of Mrs,| The next Saturday Davidson was to meet 8. Correct your elders, or in any wise
Ellis through the month of October. |the strong V. P. I. team. Of course the | treat them with disrespect. ;
The house was attractively decorated with Were against the Wildcats. The whole weck| 9. Accept a favor of any kind without

radiant fall flowers, Baskets of dahlias and | Was spent in working Up) ay strong defense. |
ainnias adorned the hall, parlor, and sitting | When the team left Friday morning at 6:30 |

expressing gratitude to the giver.

Silver candlesticks holding yellow they were given a rousing send-off. And |
after all the dust of battle had settled V.
I. was on the long end of a 7 to 0 score. |

room,
tapers furnished light for the occasion.

Refreshments of brick ice cream and cake, P.
mints and almonds were served. Those as- That score was obtained by an intercepted
sisting in entertaining were Mrs, H. B, Ar- pass on the V, P. L's 15 yard line and an 85
buckle, Mrs, Fred Hengeveld, Mrs. Cloyd yard run, From all reports Davidson out- |
Goodrum, Mrs. K. J. Foreman, and Misses Played Tech on the defensive and presented

Always Something Good
to Eat

NEW YORK CAFE

DAVIDSON

Eloise Martin, Dorothy Finlayson, Ellen a0 unlooked for offensive, taking the ball
Black, Margaret Adams, and Maude Vinson, own the field to the Tych 15 yard line time

A total of about 70 guests attended the
charming social event.

The annual praise meeting and Rally Day
exercises of the Woman's Auxiliary were
held in the basement of the church last
Thursday evening, The meeting was ad-
dressed by Miss Edmonia Martin, a mis-
sionary to Brazil. Miss Martin is a cousin
of Doctor Martin and Mrs. Archie Currie.

Mr. Williams, the “Y” sceretary, brought
/Mrs. Williams and their child from Mon-
jtreat Thursday. Mrs. Farman, Mrs, Wil-
|liams’ mother, will be with them this winter
in their apartment at the home of Mrs. F, H®
Whitaker.

«

On Thursday, Mrs. Fraser Hood returned
from visits in Memphis and Mississippi.

|

Doctor and Mrs. Tompkins motored down
from Roanoke last week and visited Doctor
and Mrs. Lingle.

| Mts. R. A. Dunn was a guest of Dr. Mar-
tin last week. Mrs. Dunn was here with
Mr. Dunn at the recent meeting of the exec-

|utive committee. j

| Mrs. W. H. Wooten entertained at her

after time, only to lose the ball.

| Next Saturday we play Citadel on Rich-
jardson field. We don’t mean to be confi-
‘dent, but we must have that game.
heat Erskine last Saturday 26 to 0. They
are strong in South Carolina, ranking close
(to) 12), (Cy,

Citadel ,

Then we play Wake Forest in Charlotte |

Heckman is not in harness this
Heretofore he has been a Davidson

on the 20th,
year,

nemesis, but it will take more than a nemesis |

to stop the Wildcats this year.

From all reports State presents a strong
defense, holding Penn, State to a 16 to 0
score,

“Y” SUNDAY SCHOOL WORK

Every year the Y. M. C. A. sends student
deputations to the Mission Sunday Schuols
in this community. Julian Briggs has charge
of this department and already has five depu-
tations going out every Sunday. He says
that he expects to organize two more in a
short while. About 20 or 25 student: are
engaged in the work at present.

Possibly the largest group is that which
goes to Shearer Chapel, about four miles out

‘,

Announcing Our New_»,
Location Near Post Office

NORTON’ BARBER

SHOP
RURRRRRRRRRRRRR RRR
DROP IN—
Ror The Best Eats In Town

| THE MISSES SCHOFIELD
dnvannnaunnnnnnannannmannan

anew

COMPLETE LINE

SILK-WOOL
HOSIERY

A. C. McINTYRE
Box 123 27 Ga.

iunnaaesccsoscsacecosssssseaasssusacecd

(oor

>

| home Tuesday evening in honor of Miss
Mildred Hobbs and Mr. James M. Blue,
whose wedding takes place in October.
Bridge and rook were played at five tables.
Miss Susie Brady and Mr, Fred Hengeveld
|made the highest scores. The hostess, as- |
sisted by her sisters, Mrs. J. A. White, of
| Mooresville, and Mrs. W. N. Thompson, of
| Charlotte, served an elaborate salad course,

Charlotte,

They are the Best
DAVIS

| CALENDAR =
THURSDAY—

7 :30—Phi Society meeting.

GALLANT

REPRESENTING

The Ben-Vonde Co.

N.C.

DRY CLEANERS AND DYERS
FELLOWS!

Called for Monday Nights
SELS ER

7 :30-—-Eumenean Society meeting.
FRIDAY NIGHT—
7 :30—Movies, “Three Wise Fools.”
SATURDAY—
3 :30—Football, Citadel vs. Davidson. |
7 :30—Stunt Night. |
SUNDAY— |
11 :00—Morning Services. |
Ministerial Band. |
Volunteer Band.
6:15—“Y” meeting.
7:30—Evening Services. |
MONDAY— |
3 :30—Football practice: |
TUESDAY—
7 :30—Metrophilian.
x 7:30—Pandeinic,
-WEDNESDAY—
7:30—Meeting of Court of Control.

“TRIFLING WI

Under

The Strand, BROADWAY

Thursday and Friday

A Sizzling Hot Base Ball Story

Management

TH HONOR”

