THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 12, 1923

RELIGIOUS NEWS

tion. The object of the present tour is to
determine the relative rating of the different
college units in this corps area. Both offi-
ters spoke briefly at Chapel Tuesday morn-
ing emphasizing the fact that they had come

OGDEN DELIVERS STRONG
ADDRESS AT .“Y” VESPER

A service of special interest to the stu-
dents as well as to Davidson and the sur-
rounding communities was the Visitors’
Night service rendered by the Y. M. C. A.
last Sunday evening. Invitations were sent
to the nearby churches and, although the
weather was inclement, a number of visitors
were present, some for the first time at-
tending a religious service conducted by the
students.

Instead of calling an out-of-town speak-
er for the occasion, the cabinet asked one of
its own members, Dunbar Ogden, to deliver
the inspirational address of the evening.
Dunbar, was at his best, and left with his
hearers some profound impressions.

Pat Crawford presided, reading the scrip-
ture lesson, Judges 15, and later introducing
the speaker. Buck Currie led the singing.
Okey Allison favored the gathering with a
solo, W. H, Allison accompanying on the
piano. Blonco White played the violin dur-
ing the song service. During the opening
exercises, W. T. Baker and Bascomb Sor-
rells led the house in prayer.

The speaker took as his theme the life
of Samson, showing the bright promise of
his early life, and his failure to measure up
to the task God had set for him.

“Samson was a man of strength. He was
given his supernatural strength by God. But
he failed to make a success of his life.

“We have come here to make our lives
successful. Samson also intended for his
life to be successful, but he failed before
he reached the top of the ladder.”

Here the speaker drew two vivid pictures,
one of Samson as a young man, brave, vig-
orous, full of life, as he tears asunder a
lion: the other, not of a victorious ruler, a
powerful king, but of a man, bent and blind,
a toiling slave.

“What brought about such a change in the
life of Samson? The first cause was an un-
holy love which helped to wreck his life.
He opened his heart in the wrong way, and
let false love overcome his noble character.
Love of money, love of ease, love of self,
are unholy loves that we may allow to get
into our lives and ruin them.

“But true love, love of the grand and no-
ble things in life, is one of the greatest vir-
tues in life. ‘There abideth faith, hope,
love; but the greatest of these is love.’ True
love makes us grow into greater and nobler
men.

“Samson lacked discipline.
strength was unharnessed. It was not used
aright. He had too much power, and so
forgot his real mission on earth, The men
who have discipline in their lives are the
men who are the most powerful in the
world. They use their strength for good,

His huge

while unharnessed strength accomplishes on-/

ly destruction.

“Again, Samson's failure lay in the fact
that he compromised with the enemy. He
associated with the Philistines, he played
with them, during the time he should have
been fighting them, and freeing his people
from oppression. He played with fire.”

‘The speaker illustrated the effects of
compromise with the story of an eagle, tear-
ing carrion flesh from a block of ice as it
floated down the Niagara River. As the ice
neared the falls, the eagle did not fly away,
but stayed on the ice until, as the ice came
within the rapids above the falls, the eagle,
attempting flight, found its feet frozen to
the ice, and went over the falls to des-
truction.

“Samson’s unholy love, his lack of disci-
pline, and his compromise with the enemy
brought on his destruction. At the time of
testing he was found lacking. Avoid those

things which caused the failure of Samson,
and which, if you give way to them, may
cause yotir own failure.”
After the closing hymn, Buck Currie dis-
missed the house with prayer.
Tp.

DR. FRAZER, OF QUEENS,
SPEAKER AT “Y” SERVICE

Dr. W. H. Fraser, president of Queens,
was the speaker of the Y. M. C. A. Service
held Sunday evening, April 1. The meet-
ing was a part of the Junior Speaking pro-
gram, and was in the hands of members of
that class. Ted Jones and Vic Brown of
the junior class and Bob McLeod of the
senior class had charge of the meeting, the
latter introducing Doctor Frazer.

Many of the students were off the hill
during the holidays, but despite this fact
a good crowd was out to hear Doctor Fra-
zer, as almost all of the students and vis-
itors on the hill were present.

Doctor Frazer highly complimented Dav-
idson on the sp-rit of her student body and
on the type of men she turns out. He said
that he himself, as well as the student body,
always welcomed Davidson men to Queens.

Making Life a Success was the theme
of Doctor Frazer’s remarks for the evening,
and he left with his hearers some inspira-
tional and helpful thoughts on the subjecct.
The meeting was deeply iimpressive, and all
went away feeling that they had gained
something from hearing him.

T).

DISTINGUISHED ORATOR
TO ADDRESS STUDENTS

Mr. Wm. H. Bobbitt will be the “Y”|
speaker on April 15th. Mr. Bobbitt is one!
of the most eminent lawyers in Charlotte,
belonging to the firm of Stewart, McRae &
Parker.

Mr. Bobbitt is renowned for his speak-
ing. All through high school he won medals
for declamation, and debate. He then went
to the University of North Carolina and
made himself still more famous along for-
ensic lines by taking many honors for dec-
lamation and debate there.

Mr. Bobbitt, though still a young man,
has become an exceptionally powerful speak-
er. He will pprobably speakon some phase
of the relation between religion and busi-

to Davidson because of the recognized high
standing of the battalion here. Their in-
spection, would be, they said, to find out the
defects of this organization in order to help

remedy them and that on the whole their

destructive.
It had been planned to have a review of |
the battalion on the athletic field Wednes- |

and a field problem to be undertaken by the

However, due to the rainy weather, these
plans had to be abandoned and such exercises
as possible were transferred to the gymna-
siim. Because of being unaccustomed to
this drill floor it was not possible to put
up the best showing, but the inspectors
stated that they would make all needed
allowances as they had come to get a general

criticism would be constructive instead of ;

day afternoon, drill by different companies, | social on Saturday night.

unit under the direction of the cadet officers. |

impression of the unit rather than to give
lit an exact grading.

| Two of the companies took their station,
jone on the right and one on the left of the
gymnasium as you enter, and the other two/|
companies took their places up stairs. First
there was some close order drill by a platoon
of C company, being commanded by three
different lieutenants in succession. This pla-
toon was picked last fall as the one quali-
fying first in this department. Following
this the crack drill squad of the battalion
executed the squad movements. This squad
was of A company with Corporal Brice in
command. The second platoon of C. com-
pany next gave an exhibition of physical
exercises in the form of calisthenics ‘as
taught by the officers here. An interesting
event was then pulled off by two sections of
B company in the form of a medicine ball
relay race. During this time competition
shooting was held downstairs in the gallery |
range by teams selected from the freshman
and sophomore classes.

Next in order the different companies
were drawn up and inspected by one of the
officers of the War Department. There
were a few ladies, professors, and students
present to view the inspection which was the
only one of its kind to be held at Davidson
for several years.

Cols. Polk and Stewart came to Davidson
Monday afternoon and on the next two
days visited R. O. T. C. classes and forma-

HOLLINGSWORTH’S READER

ness,

PROF. ERWIN ADDRESSES
MINISTERIAL BAND.

Professor Erwin, speaking on the subject,
The Growth and Develogment of the
Church, gave a helpful and interesting talk
at the regular meeting of the Ministerial
Band, last Sunday morning.

“The history of the past nineteen hundred
years,” said the speaker, “has been of the
development of Christianity. There is not
a more fascinating study, than the growth
and development of the church.” The speak-
er then gave the members of the Band a
helpful and interesting synopsis of the book
by Dante, called The Immortal Poem, which
he compared to Pilgrim’s Progress. The!
speaker showed the Band the various ways |
in which Dante treated this poem, and the.
beliefs of the people in Dante’s time. Their
belief as to death, hell, purgatory and hea-
ven as exemplified in this poem were dis-
cussed at length.

D.
RAIN INTERFERES WITH
BATTALION INSPECTION

Col. Polk and Col. Stewart of the War
Department visited the Davidson College R.
O. T. C. unit last week on a tour of phere

“CAP AND BELLS” NOVEL
JUNIOR WEEK ITEM

A decided innvation along literary lines
at Davidson and in fact one that added
greatly to the success of Junior Speaking
was the unexpected appearance of Cap and
Bells, and entirely humorous publication
produced by twelve members of the class
of nineteen twenty four. The publication,
the first of its kind ever issued here, was the
evidence of a great deal of labor and was
‘developed along the lines of The Virginia
Reel and other similar college publications.

aa the magazine was given be-

x

The contents were to a large extent original
and the sketches proved beyond a doubt that
the Juniors claim distinctive artists among
their number.

The staff, composed entirely of Juniors,
contained some of the leading literary men
of the class. Its personnel was as follows:
L. D. Elkins; editor-in-chief; W. M. Hes-
ton, art editor; Watt McCain, W. T. Jones,
W. F. Gallaway, R. R. Jones, D. B. Wal-
thall, H. M. White, R. M. Carr and W. Z:;
Bradford, associate editors; and R. L. Price
and A. M. Hurd, business managers. .

The publication was classed as Volume 1,
Number 1, Only 1 but its enthusiastic re-
ception demonstrated the fact that there is
an opening for such a publication as a per-
manent feature among the literary products

of the campus.

|dies, exquisite symphonies in sweets, go out

|sessed and Hollingsworth set out to make

“There is something new under the sun,”
said ‘Doc’ Goodrum down at White's the
other day, “and it originated right down here |
in the South and not in New York and Phila-
delphia.” “Doc” looked real enthusiastic

and so The Davidsonian man pressed him to
tell the tale, According to “Doc’— |

Down in Augusta a good many years ago!
a young Georgia boy began to make candy. |
With him candy-making was a labor of sexe |
for candy had always fascinated him. Cho- | |
colate blends and sugars and honeys and!
nuts and fruits were carefully studied for |

| years and years until the very best qual- |

ities for candy making were found. Then |
began the search for the proper combinations
of the goodies. Again the search lasted for |
years and years but at last candy formulae |
were discovered that would whet the appe-
tites of the most jaded lover of candy.
That man was Virgil Hollingsworth and
today from his Augusta factories hundreds
and thousands of pounds of Unusual Can- |

every day to the candy epicures of the world.
Candies of such unusual excellence deserved
containers such as no other candies pos-

them. Today in his own factory he pro-
duces the fifty and more styles of boxes,
many tied with the silk cord distinctive has
enabled Hollingsworth to offer a unique
service to buyers of fine candy.

For instance: You want a box to send to
your girl, say The Amazon box. You select
the box, give me her name and address and
I'll send them right down to Augusta. Down
in Augusta they get right to work and in
no time at all the.box starts on its way with
her name worked on the cover in gold. The
extra charge for the name,~ postage and
guaranteed delivery is only fifty cents. Yes,
sir, it’s a real candy, the best of the best.

Candy is a Hobby with Virgil Hollings-
worth. There is one box called My Hobby
Box and it contains selections from twelve
wonderful packages. “Unusual Candies”,
Mr. Hollingsworth says, “are made unspar-
ingly fine and if the price was ten dollars a
pound ‘there is nothing I could add in the
way or art or skill and deliciousness.”

Send her a-box"df the world’s finest.can

tions. It is understood that the inspectors

gained a good general impression of the unit

here altho the exact rating will not be offi-

cially known till sometime in the summer.
T).

TWO DEPUTATIONS SENT
OUT BY TRAINING CLASS

The Christian Endeavor training class
sent out for the week-end on deputation
Arnett Gamble, Wallace Purdy LeLe MeLeon
jand W. Milton. Gamble and Purdy went to
; Woodleaf where they helped to conduct a
On Sunday they
attended the Unity Presbyterian church
which was formally supplied by Willis
Booth of the class of ’22.

Gamble spoke to the Sunday School on
the World-Wide Spread of Christian En-
deavor. In the afternoon he and Purdy
spoke to the Christian Endeavor Society
and a conference of officers was held at
which plans were made to organize an inter-
mediate society. They were then taken to

| Coolemee where they spoke to the young
| people of the Presbyterian church who are
‘organizing a Christian Endeavor Society.

| Lee McLean spoke of the need of the

| the Seversville church of Charlotte and filled
the pulpit for Rev. J. G. Garth, who was ill.
LeLe McLean spoke on the need of the
Church of Today and Milton’s subject was

Unusual

Hollingsworth's
_Candies

Songs in Chocolates
Tuned

Southland’s Sweetest
Cadences

Personal Evangelism as a Remedy of the
Need. The day was well filled up for them
as they spent the evening visiting the Chris-
tian Endeavor societies of Thomasborough
and filled the pulpit again in the evening at
Seversville. They report a delightful recep-
tion.

Any who are interested in Christian En-
deavor should come and get the benefits

of the Training Class.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks

“Eversharp Pencils Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens

Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

to the

tee badii

Lob

Exclusive otiey

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
IN DAVIDSON

Columbia Theological Seminary

COLUMBIA, SOUTH CAROLINA

JOHN M, WELLS, President
HUGH R. MURCHISON, Executive Secretary
Baccalaureate Sermon—First ‘Presbyterian Church, Sun-
day, May 6th, at 11:30 A. M., by Rev. Alexander

Martin, D. D., pastor of the Oakland Avenue Presby-
terian Church, of Rock Hill, South Carolina.

Sermon before The Society of Missionary Inquiry—Arse-

nal Hill Presbyterian Church, Sunday, May 6th, at
8:00 P. M., by Rev. Walter L. Caldwell, D. D., pas-

tor of the Woodland
Nashville, Tenn.

Street Presbyterian Church,

Tuesday, May 8th, 12M.—Meeting of the Board of Di-
rectors of Columbia Seminary.

Tuesday, May 8th, 8:00 P. M.—Inaugural address of Rev.
James B. Green; D. D., as Professor of Theology.

First Presbyterian Church.

Wednesday, May 9th, 11.00 A. M.—-Graduating exercises
in the Seminary Chapel.

Hon. John T. Brantley, president of the Board, pre-

siding.

Presentation of ‘diplomas and address by. Rev. John
M. Wells, D. D., L. L. D., president of the Seminary.

