FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON |

Vol. XI

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. DECEMBER 13, 1923

Fresh Provide Amusement For Students
During Riotous Soph Day Celebration

Sophs Reign for One One Day, Making
Fresh Walk a Chalk Line—Paint
Fight Features

FRESH DECORATE FACES

First-Year Men Stage Antics for
Sophomores—Good Feeling
Prevails During Day

As an alternative for hazing, Sophomore
Day was inaugurated Saturday, with the hope
that this day may become an annual affair on
the campus. Sophomore Day was suggested
and authorized by the Court of Control, and
directed by S. S. Deck and other members of
the Sophomore class. Paint fights, shirt
fights, wheelbarrow races, parades and gen-
eral foolishness made up a day which will
never be forgotten by the present freshman
class,

Seven-thirty Saturday morning found the
freshmen busy making their noses a_ fiery
red, and branding a big black “F” ow their
foreheads. One lady remarked that she knew
that college men drank but she didn’t know
they carried it to such an extreme! Each
freshman wore his cap turned around, giv-
ing a still more tipsy appearance.

On going in and out of the dormitories,
instead of walking in the usual civilized way,
each freshman knelt down and crawled on
his hands and knees in and out of the build-
ing. Tipping the cap to all upper-classmen
was likewise in the orders of the day. This
had to be performed from the rear with the
right hand as the left was kept hidden. The
crawling pose was resumed on each cross-
ing of the “D,” likewise across Main street.

Many learned what it was to sit on the
“atmosphere,” for “sitting on infinity” was
in vogue. All the chairs used by the fresh-
men at the respective boarding houses re-

S. D. fovdon Ends Series
. of Interesting Speeches

Spends Four Days at Davidson and
Makes Total of Nine Talks—
Impresses His Hearers

Aiter conducting four services ‘on Sunday
and Monday, Mr. S. D. Gordon, noted writer,
lecturer, and world traveler, continued his
series of services by speaking to the stu-
dents on Tuesday evening, and at the local
church twice on both Wednesday and Thurs-
day. In a straightforward, simple manner,
with a distinet touch of sarcasm and a unique
way in delivering his talks, he left with the
students and townspeople an impression of a
life of consecration, and of one full of serv-
ice for God.

Tuesday night in his talk to the students
he asked the query, “What kind of house
shall you live in?” He interpreted this to
mean, what sort of a condition would the life
of each be? One made of concrete could not
easily be shifted; one of wood can; the house
(or life) built on a broad boulevard may be
one merely for show, while the one on- the
side street would be one of true living. Mr.
Gordon asserted that the right kind of house
for a real, true Christian to live in, using: it
in a Biblical sense, was a tent, one that can
be easily shifted, so that when the command
comes from God to go,
done.

it can be quickly
Christ gave the command to tarry and
then go, hence, living in a tent would be
waiting for the command, and, when it came,
one would be ready.

The scarcest thing in. the world today ‘is
a real Christian man, stated the speaker. It’s

| better to be an out-and-out Christian than a

ceived a good rest for one day, for their use|

at the table was barred. By an unfortunate |
(Continued on page 8)

Frontis Urges Sabbath

Observance In‘Y’ Address

Mosreavills Alananaa.t in Deeply In-| stopped and said,
| ous,”

| person's life with God left out.

teresting Address of “Y” Vesper
Service

Doctor F. Frontis, of the class of 92, who |

is at present a dental surgeon of Moorcs-, would not be done by an ordinary writer ;

ville, addressed the Y. M. C. A. at its vesper
service Sunday evening. The subject chosen
by Doctor Frontis was Sabbath Observence.
His text was the Fourth Commandment.
“The subject of Sunday observance,” said
the speaker in opening, “is a subject on which
we are all more or less sensitive, since we
are guilty of failing to observe it !n the way
in which. it was intended to be observed, as
given in God’s law. We try to excuse our-
selves because everybody else treaks the
laws of Sabbath observance. But we can-
not excuse ourselves or soothe our ‘ ccn-
sciences for doing like others unless «thers
do right.
laws of God, is an individual matter.

“Our ancestors, the early settlers »f Amer-
ica, observed scrupulously the law of Sabbath
observance, and not only they, but their de-
scendants have been blessed by it. America
has grown to be the greatest nation in the
world, and God has blessed America for
keeping His laws.

“The church is laboring valiantly to fulfill
her mission of peace on earth, making the
world better. This is pleasing to God. But
it does not please God to see professing
Christians desecrating His Holy Sabbath.
God has given us six days in the week as our
own. If we are to take off one day a week
for pleasure, let it be from those six, and net
from the one day that He has set aside as
His day. One day a week is necessary ior
rest of body and-soul. It is a proven fact
that more can be done in wotking six days

(Continued on page 6)

Sabbath observance, as all other |

|

|

}drag on the

market, was the conclusion
One's. life should be so lived that it
| will be a steady warm glow rather than a
' sudden conflagration, and the best means of
obtaining this end is for the material side of
the lives of men to be in sympathy with
Christ, and therefore easily shifted.

reached.

At the Wednesday night service Mr. Gor-
don was reading a passage of Scripture con-
[taining the genealogy, when suddenly he
“This is getting monoton-
" drawing the contrast that such is every
The speaker
showed that the Bible was inspired, for the
insertion of the genealogy in the scripture
the
genealogy shows that every man was born
and lived; no man had anything to do with
the first birth, and the results of a life when
these people walked with God, using Enos as

|a special example, was a beautiful life.

Continuing his discussion, Mr. Gordon said
that the best thing in the world was to really
live. Reverently speaking, he asserted, peo-
ple are “fellows” with God if they walk with

Wildcat Glee Club Back

From Tri-State Jaunt

Red and Black Melody Makers Have
Successful Road Trip Through
Carolinas and Georgia

QUARTET MAKES HIT

Six Performances Given on Southern
Tour—Gastonia Concert Mon-
day Closes Long Jaunt

The Davidson College Glee Club
blazed a broad trail through Dixieland
on their fall concert tour, leaving in
their wake many pleasant memories of
tuneful days and songs that even artists
love to sing, The 24 musicians, together
with advance manager, J. H. Davis, re-
turned to Davidson Tuesday morning af-
fer a tour through North Carolina,
South Carolina and Georgia—the most
successful trip ever made by a Wildcat
musical club,

The
he the
stnibted
chorus,

Musicians proved themselves to
most versatile artists
at Davidson. “Singing
quartet and. solo, rendering
operatic bits and then jumping into jazz,
the collegians proved themselves a ver-
satile musical organization,”

ever as-
mn

in

writes the

| Atlanta Journal.

The

ceived

choruses were well
every audience, The

Love Us” chorus, written by Mrs. Coral
Hayner Baker for the Davidson Glee
Club, exclusively, was a popular prelude
to the evening of entertainment which
followed, The Symphony Orchestra. the
Dixieland Novelty Seven and the String
Quartet were a valuable asset to the club,
attracting. especial attention in every
performance. The Dixieland Novelty
Seven, jazz musicians of the rarest type

opening
by

re-

“We

i were the most popular performers of the

entire troupe. The solos were excellent,
and the quartet did its bit to make the
program a rousing success. Pigeyv Mar-
tin, in his original lgetures, was called

from behind the scenes time and time
again, scoring well before every au-
dence.

The tour began Tuesday, December

qth, the first engagement being in Spar-
tanburg, S.C. One of the features of
the visit to Spartanburg was the dinner

party by Harold Moss, ex-'24, to the
Senior members of the club. The Spar-
tanburg performance was’ under the

auspices of the high school,

The second concert was given at An-
derson College, Anderson, S.C. A
ception followed the performance.
next stop was at Gainesville, Ga., where
the club played before the students of
jrenau College. The North Carolina
Club gave a reception to the entire club
after the concert in the Brenau auditor-
ium. Shorter College, Rome, Ga., re-
ceived the Davidsonians enthusiastically
in their fourth concert, entertaining with

re-

Red and Black Cagers Round Into Form
Under Tutelage of Coach Younger

Dr. Sohn Calvin Metcalf
Defends Modern College

In Public Address at Phi Beta Pappa
Initiation—Ably Repels Attacks
on Colleges

Dr. John ¢ hpiliy Meteall, head of the
lish department and dean of the Graduate
School of the University of Virginia, deliv-
ered the literary address at the fall initiation
of Phi Beta Kappa, at Davidson College,

Ene-

on

Friday night, December 7th, Dr. J. M. Me
Connell, president of the local chapter, fol-
lowing the invocation by Dr. C. M, Rich-

ards, made a brief statement concerning the
History of Phi Beta Kappa. Then Dr. 1. I.
Shewmake introduced the speaker of the

evening,

In opening his address, Dr. Metealf spoke
a few words on the nature of this honorary
fraternity, “It has been called,” he said,
invisible empire of ideas. Because of its de-
mands for membership it has become in a
way intellectual and moral noblesse
oblige.” With introductory remarks
the speaker continued with an eloquent and
scholarly presentation of what the American
college is and the things it should strive for.

an
these

“There are four chief indictments com-
monly hurled at the American college today.
The first is worthy of careful consideration,
and it is true to a certain extent, It is that
the college lacks unity curriculum and
purpose, i. ¢., it is too haphazard. The see-
and indictment that too much time and money
is spent on non-essentials, non-knowledge,
merely the old utilitarian ery which would
overthrow the ideal plan of general educa-
tion first to be followed by specialist: work
and ruin of the
whole.

of

1s

reverse this order to the
Then they say colleges do not encourage
the gifted student, but are more intent upon
mob thought or unity than upon individual
leadership with power. While this is unfor-
tunately true to some extent, we can see a
sign of an intellectual renaissance in’ the
movement in some universities to bestow cer-
tain honors and privileges upon those achiev-
ing marked success in intellectual lines.
Finally the modern college is termed pagan,
Surely it is not perfect now and contrary to
the opinion of its critics never was. Men
and women in the colleges today are speak-
ing with a greatner frankness and boldness,
at least with a greater freedom of expres-
sion, But in the end we will find that they
have come to a settled philosophy, as it were,
in which religion and knowledge do not con-
tradict cach other. They cannot, for they are
on parallel tracks, or: more accurately, on
different planes.”

Dr. Metcalf continued with the question of
whether the college is training for leader-

Him. Their daily life, either in work or a reception after the performance. While ship, and emphasized this important aspect
(Continued on page 8) | (Continued on page 4) (Continued on page 6)
= - -
| SCHEDULE OF ACTIVITIES
| FIRST AND SECOND WEEKS
uae Mondayz Tuesday ____ Wednesday “Thursday | Friday _ "Saturday — Sunday
|
| Pan. | Literary Seni + Phi. | Literary oli i sieue
| M ‘ Senior Class $ Polity Club Patient eee Bible Class
| Het. ( Societies 7:00-7:30 P. M. Eu. If Societies 7:30-9:30 P. M. Picture Show 10:00—-10:30 A, M. |
7:00-8:45 P.M. : _ 7:00-8:45 P.M. =< saplanawn Wee nsrneas
| ZI Glee Club rae St ~ Glee Club _ Picture Sra Ministerial Band
pig P.M. | 8:30-9:30 P.M. | ms 8:30-9:30 P. M. : icture eae [Ee einer
| : A Picture Show Ee: 15_7:13 PM.
| > Court of Control Aesculapean Club | Reporters’ Club | r'sE Motareeshae "Volunteer Band |
| —9:00=11:00 P.M.) 9:30—11:00 P.M. | __9:00—11:30 P. M._|_10:00—11:00 P. M. -|_ 10:00—11:00 P.M. | 'CUUFS 700 7:15-8:00 P. M._ |
| Bible Class Leaders | a ee - :
| 9:30 P. M. Picture Show |
| SECOND AND FOURTH WEEKS |
|___Monday _ _Tuesday | _~—Sss Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
| Davidsonian Staff Van, J Literary Senior Class 1th \ Literary Scabbard and Blade], ee gy Bible Class
| 7:00-7:30 P. M. a estes 7:00-7:30 P. M. ul /jSccietics 7:00-8:30 P. M. sorts 20M "|" 10:00-210:30) Ay Ms |
| 7:00-8:45 P.M. 7:00—8:45 P.M. |
| OAK Glee Club Ban Helene (ca tiaerery Gale Glee Club pickdgec Sh Ministerial Band
:00—9 « :30—9:. »~ M. ‘ x om 4 in ursday only : : > M. icture Show : DM.
H 8:00—9:00 P. M. 8:30—9:30 P. M 8:00-9:00 P. M 8:30-9:30 P. M. 8:30—9:30 P. M 1:30 P. M
‘ Vesper Y.
D,
|-@ BREET | gsi
ay Court of Control | Bible Class Leaders Reporters’ Club ATK Picture Show Volunteer Band>
| 9:. 11:00 P. ° 9:30 P. M. 10.:00—11:00 P. M. 9:30—11:00 P. M. 7:15—8:00 P. M.

Second Week of Basketball Practice
Finds Wildcat Quint in Fine
Physical Form

STALEY AND BEALL STAR

Morrison and Bogus Show Up Well
at Guard Positions—Captain
Davis Jumps Center

Basketball practice that began on Wednes-
day, the Sth, has into the
week and prospects for a winning qiint are
brighter with age. Autumn atmosphere with
its stimulating briskness is, of sug-
gestive of football, the king of all sports. The
whole scene of action has changed, however,
from the grid to the hardwood court. since
autumn has merged into winter. Davidson
athletes are striving by hard practice to en-
hance their
part Davidson's disastrous football season.

rounded second

course,

chances at redeeming in) some

Practice has become earnest as the season's
games are approaching so rapidly. Light
workouts have been done away with and al-
ready long drills have been inaugurated,
Coach Monk has not had to put to much
time on instruction in the rudiments of the
game back. This
early in the season the first squad has been
cut down to nine men, A program of rapid
elimination is considered by the
be essential since preliminary practice time is
Immediately after Christmas the
varsity squad of both first and second

as so many veterans are

coaches to

so short.
entire
string men will be cut to ten men.

It will be extremely hard for the new
coaches to pick men to fill the gaps left by
Crawford and Mauze. From the second

week's practice it would seem that Sappen-
field and Morrison are the men who will most
likely step into the suction soles left by these
two letter men, They have been showing up
exceptionally well in practice and their work

(Continued on page 5)

Debaters Ready for Clash
With Washington and Lee

Team Is Primed for First Meet on
Next Friday Night—Outlook
Optimistic

After a month of strenuous preparation,
the Davidson debating team is, primed for
the first meet on the 1923-24 schedule which
is to be held in Shearer Hall Friday
night, December 14th, with Washington and
Lee.

There abundant

on

is promise of a debate
full of clash and fire. Few questions are of
more momentous importance than: “Kesolv-
ed, That the present immigration law should
be re-enacted.” Secretary Labor Davis
says: ‘No more vital issue faces the Amer-
ican people today than that of immigration.”
Among the first bills on the last Congres-
sional docket came the identical one of the
present debate. It was far past midnight,
and only over red-hot opposition, that any
decision—and this was to be only temporary
—was reached. Many of the great period-
icals are featuring the immigration problem.
Here, too, the controversy is bitter.

Davidson apparently used discretion in
choosing the negative side. On this side are
lined up a most formidable array of inter-
nationally-known political scientists, educa-
tors, and politicians. Their alone
would be sufficient to give desirable credence
to any theory.

Coming to the debaters «themselves, the

of

names

_cats.
ing their briefs, I found them exceptionally
j logical, forcible and convincing. As to their
individual argumentative and oratorical abil-

contest looks indeed auspicious for the Wil-
Professor Dendy says: “On review-

ity, I am more than pleased, Those that at-
tend this debate jwill be gratified with the
Davidson champions, and every real Wildcat
will be there.”

. (Continued on page 8) .
