THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 3, 1923

RED AND BLACK DEBATERS
WIN UNANIMOUS DECISION

(Continued From Page 1)

tive, Mr. Sprinkle, briefly outlined the
history of the question and summarized
the three main issues of the Affirmative,
first: that the amendment as proposed
by Representative Green is necessary,
second: that tax-exempt securities are
wrong in principle, and third: that an
amendment to the Constitution forbidding
the issuance of such securities is right in
principle. The speaker maintained that
bonds of the government, of the state
and of the municipality are personal
property and should be taxed as such,
and that when the government relieves
the taxes from one form of bonds or se-
curities it increases the taxes on others.
The income tax that was brought into
existence in 1916 and as Mr. Sprinkle
declared, was the fairest form of taxation
ever levied, was discussed at length.
L. D. Elkins, the first speaker of the
Negative, refuted the statements set
forth by the Affirmative with the follow-
ing points, which constituted the argu-
ments of the debate as advanced by the
Negative; first, the proposed plan is un-
desirable; second, the proposed plan
would not promote the economic welfare
of the national government; third, the
proposed plan would not be beneficent to

FEMALE BOVINE VISITS
BIG MACK AT 3:59 A. M.

At last the sacred precincts of “Hugh
John” McMasters sanctum in Louisiana
has been violated by one of the feminine
sex. No longer can “Doug” and “Hugh
John” rest secure in thefr retreat with
the knowledge that they are same from
invasion. This has been the source of
much embarrassment and discomfiture to
both these two modest youths and as a
result they are eyed askance by their fel-
low roomers.

Saturday night at some indefinite time
between twelve nd six, the door of num-
ber one Louisiana opened silently and the
female entered the room where reposed
the two comely youths in innocent sleep.
With a quick glance around she walked
lightly over to the bed and gazed at the
sleepers snoring away at the rate of five
thousand vibrations per minute. She
leaned over Douglas on the lower bed of
the double decker, her hot breath fanning
his cheeks. In another second she was
licking his forehead with her long tongue.
Douglas ewakened. “Scat out a here!—
Hey Mac, here’s a blamed cow in here, I
feel her horns!”

a ” said McMas-
ter as he turned over in his slumber.

In another moment the thoroughly

the states, counties, or municipalities.
Under the first of the arguments, the
speaker showed that the proposed pro-
ject is undesirable because the country
as a whole is enjoying a steady pros-
perity and business is on a more stable
basis than it has ever been. He stated
at the outset that the Affirmative faced
the burden of the proof inasmuch as
they had to show that such a step is
necessary, and that if tax exempt bonds
were done away with that they would
better the financial condition of the gov-
ernment and the people. “A holder of a
large amount of tax exempt securities,”
he said, “turns his money into the chan-
nels of trade and bears his share of taxes
just as does the holder of securities that
are subject to taxation.”

L. B. Hollowell, the second speaker of
the Negative, presented in an extremely
clear and convincing manner the argu-
ment that tax exempt bonds and securi-
ties are wrong in principle, and injurious
in practice. “Tax exempt securities”
he said, “are attractive to only a small
percentage of the wealthy class and do
not reach the masses. Taxation should
be universal and should affect every one
alike. Some one must pay, and when
the rich huyer of tax exempt securities
pays less, the poor man must pay more.
Capital which is used to stimulate indus-
try is being withdrawn from trade and
put in tax exempt securities.” He
claimed that the issuance of this class of
securities. prevents the working -of a
graduated income tax. History, that of
the Bourbon regime in France, was
delved into by Mr. Hollowell in an effort
to show the evils of tax exemption in
the case of the clergy and nobles of that
period.

“The proposed plan would not pro-
mote the economic welfare of the Na-
tional government.’”’ This was the theme
of the argument by A. M. Hillhouse of
the Negative and he made it apparent to
his listeners that the scheme would be
directly against the best interests of the
government. “The government would
find no market for bonds subject to the
taxation of a local and state government,”
he said. “In times of national exigencies
there could be no funds, such as Liberty
Bonds, raised in such a short time, and
the furtherance of public works such as
the Panama Canal would be impossible.

Mr. E. B. Fisher, the last upholder of
the affirmative, stated that the proposed
amendment is right in principle as it
throws the burden of taxation on the rich
man as well as the poor. He said that
the credit of both State and National
government would be placed upon a
sound basis, and that public improve-
ments would be stimulated. An inter-
esting statement of his was that the land
which comprises 35% of the nation’s
wealth is being made to pay. 77% of the
taxes.

ST ee

Bob Walker—What do you think of a
man that gets up at two o'clock in the
morning for a horseback ride?

Ted Jones—I think he’s sort of nutty.
Who did such a thing?

Bob—Paul Revere.

ar d sleeper had turned on the light
and was vainly Arying to pursue the in-
truder with a’chair. Only after a chase
by both the rdomies was the bovine able
to be driven from the bed chamber where
she had so stealthily entered. By this
time all the denizens of the dormitory
had awakened at the unseemly noise and
had come to investigate. “Hugh John”
especially had great trouble in sleeping
the rest of the night. NS

Douglas has not been able to ascertain
the ways and means of the bovine’s sally
into his stateroom but believes it was per-
petrated by human agency. Further-
more, from the torn up condition of his
room, he says that he agrees with Kip-
ling, in that the female of the cow tribe
is even more deadly than the gentleman
species, with which he is well acquaint-
ed.

As the last speaker of the Negative,
W. M. Cox based his arguments on the
assertion that the plan as agitated would
not be beneficent to the states, counties,
and municipalities. Increased interest
rates would make it virtually impossible
for cities to borrow money, and cities
cannot sell bonds when buyers have to
face four distinct taxes. He gave a con-
crete example in the case of Charlotte
where a 2% raise in taxes means that
$120,000.00 must come from the tax pay-
ers. He also stressed the fact that the
adoption of this amendment would pre-
vent cities and municipalities from own-
ing their public works.

The rejoinders by both contending sides
were unsually spirited and forceful.
Facts and figures were given by each side
that tended to prove its points and dis-

‘prove the opposing side. The most prac-

tical as well as the clearest point was
made by Hillhouse in his rejoinder when
he showed, by means of a chart made for
the occasion, that the government would
lose over three million dollars if the
amendment went into effect. The result
of the judges’ decision, as read by Doctor
Martin, was the sign for a show of great
enthusiasm by the audience, which never
doubted for a moment that the Red and
Black would win. ;

The speakers of the evening together
with the judges and several visitors- were
the guests of the Gavel and Forum Club
after the debate and were entertained
with a reception.

It is of interest to note that this is the
thirtieth debate in which Davidson has
engaged since the founding of the college.
Of this number, the Red and Black de-
baters have won twenty and lost only a
scant ten, not one of them ever being lost
at Davidson.

Sheik Mauze Knocks ’Em Cold.

George Mauze is the original Apollo.
His greatest success was accomplished
in Greenville. The young lady kept
George out in her car until the early
hours of the morning. But to the mem-
bers of the team who saw the manner in
which George said goodbye to her at the
station the next morning, they wonder
how he got home at all.

J T).

Windy—Well, you were hitting so
many keys I couldn’t tell which.

2 THE HOT BOX :
IUAGOU0NONGNNQUGUUUUUEULUqNONONNNONNQUNUUQUUQUUUUUUUUOUOONOOLONIOONONUNOUOUNNT

-By Jack Austin-

Heard on Greek Class: “Now indeed,”
Mr. Allison, “most worthless and most
wretched of all men—”

The “fire” in chapel Monday morning
caused quite a disturbance. The speak-
er seemed to be thoroughly frightened
but after being assured that there was
no real fire he certainly made a good
talk. :

New agonies are added to the roster of
Royal Musicians on the Hill, Dick Little-
john has bought a Banjo.

What about christening the first floor
of West, L’Enfer. It would be a very
appropriate name but for the fact that
there is’ always so much water flowing.
Moral: Never enter West without having
on a raincoat.

Note found pasted on the doof of 205
East: “Dear boys, Davidson has plenty
of water now and the Drug store is still
selling soap.”

Glad to see you back with us again
Hypo. You had a hard game this year
but hope you'll be “back” with us on the
football team next fall.

Ted Jones is the new President of the
Dramatic Club for the coming year. Ev-
eryone is looking for great things from
this organization.

How about the dumb-bell on the last
Physics review who wanted to know if a
D. C. generator was one made at David-
son College?

The prize bone of the season has now
been shown. The D.C. Heath Publishing
Company, of Atlanta, sent nine copies of
Racine’s Phedre, written in French, to
the Davidson Cotton Mills. At the worst
it wasn’t so bad though, for the French
III class got a “cut” on account of the
books not arriving on time.

‘tube of Williams’ today

What do they mean
“Senior Wrangler”?

OU may not have met one of those dear old
boys, —Oxonian stuff, what, what?—but our
idea ofa senior wrangler isa’23 man trying to work
up a lather with the wrong kind of shaving cream.

There’s no ‘‘wrangling’’ necessary to get a
lather with Williams’ Shaving Cream. Squeeze
out a spendthrift’s dab or a tightwad’s dab—it’s
all the same. Ejither way you geta big, efficient
lather that softens the beard right down to the
base of every hair.

And best of all, this big Williams’ lather has
a decidedly beneficial ,

effect on your skin. No
complexion soap could
do more for you than
Williams’ does every
time you shave. Geta

and begin giving your
face this helpful care.

Notice thehinged
cap. You can't
lose it—and the
tube hangs up!

2

WpAVY BXPERIMENTING WITH

2

@

RePITROUS oxide, accord-
ing to the science of a
SE. century ago, was “the
principle of contagion when re-
spired by animals in the minutest
quantities.” Mere say-so.

Imaginative yet skeptical Hum-
phrey Davy, who believed in ex-
periment rather than in opinion,
“respired ’’yit and lived.

It was this restless desire to test
beliefs that made him one. of the
founders of modern science. Elec-
tricity was a new force a century
ago. Davy used it, to decompose
potash, soda, and lime into potas-
sium, sodium, and calcium, ,thus
laying the foundations of electro-
chemistry. With a battery of, two
thousand plates:he produced the
first electric arc—harbinger of
modern electric;illumination and
of the electric furnace.

Czar‘Alexander I and Napoleon
met on‘a raft to sign the Treaty of
Tilsit while Davy was revealing

General
General Office Com

F g

kd b GARNETT JN THE ROYAL SOCIETY?

»

the effects of electricity on matter.
*What is Europe?” said Alexan-
der. “We are Europe.”

The treaty was at that time an ,
important political event, framed
by two selfish monarchs for the sole
purpose of furthering their per-
sonal _interests. Contrast with it
the unselfish efforts of Sir Hum-
phrey Davy. His brilliant work
has resulted in:scores of practical
applications of electrolysis; in in-
dustry and.a wealth of chemical
knowledgethat benefit not him-
self but the entire world..

In the Research Laboratories of
the General Electric Company, for
instance, much has been done to
improve the electric furnace (a de-
velopment of Davy’s arc) and new
compounds have been electro-
chemically produced, which make
it easier to cast high-conductivity
copper, to manufacture special
tool steels;-and to produce carbides
for better arc lamps.

Electric

any Schenectady, N.Y.

a4
