4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 11, 1924

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE.~.----.------Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN----.-.—- Business Manager

Editorial Staff

C. F. SMITH.L........------------—------—--Managing Editor |
WwW. .-Assistant Managing Editor
Cc. .-Assistant Managing Editor
A. -Peanut Parcher Editor
--~+--Associate Editor
-Associate Editor
.-Associate Editor
.-Alumni Editor
Pee: Athletic Editor

Business Staff
Ji As THOMPSON? si 2escets ee eee Circulation Manager
Ts Oh OMGS WAIN Seiccstsastsnensatuuees Subscription Manager
GRORMHUNIERevesccoscoiee ccc eto kesrenacas Bookkeeper
J. M. GARRISON .-Service Manager
W. H. LYNCH...

Reporters’ Club

M. GARRISON
P, GLADNEY
HOLLINGSWORTIL
ONES

resident Af,

, Vice-Pres. J.

sc.- Treas,

6 ii
- McILWAINE
TT McMILLAN

EK. K. REGEN
J. B. THOMPSON
W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

CHRISTMAS

FORTE very long, tinkling sleigh bells

and a stamping of tiny reindeer hoofs

will herald the approach of that prince
of good fellows, old St. Nicholas, the patron
saint of the joyous yuletide season, The
brilliant green and red of the holly wreaths,
the gleaming candle set in the window, and
the hurrying throngs of the street will all
lend their presence to the prevalent spirit of
good will and happiness.
birthday of our Saviour, who was born on

that silent, star-lit night in Judea so many |

years ago.

Since that time all mankind has paid
homage to Him who ruled in all gentleness
and humility; Christmas has come down to
us as a day of rejoicing and of gracious
praise. As the spirit of the day has been
kept for centuries, so it is kept today. Men’s
minds have not changed much during all the

lapse of years; the Christ whom they glori- |

fied then is the same real person today as
In ages past.

In the Middle Ages the Christmas season
was the scene of much joy and happiness.
The great cathedrals

Wwaxen tapers and_ filled

with wondrous

music; the myriad lights shone upon the |

choir who sang the hymns of praise and
adoration while the poor and rich alike bow-
ed down in praise. And in England the yule-
tide season was the happiest of all the year.
The great yule log was brought in from the
forest to be burned to provide light for the
festivities that were a part of the occasion.
Groups of children went from home to home
on Christmas Eve and sang glad carols at
all houses that showed lighted candles in
the windows.

The spirit of the season has not waned in
this country. Even the staid puritans re-
laxed some of their austereness when the
bells proclaimed another Christmas. In the
old South it was the occasion for good times
for all; gifts to all the slaves and to neigh-
bors; big feasts and merry-makings that

were attended by all the people for miles |
around. The holly and the mistletoe were |

the emblems of the most glorious of all days.

But today the true spirit of Christmas
seems to have been relegated past. Gift-
giving and receiving has been carried to an
extreme that signifies little of the original
meaning. Much of the sacredness of the day
has been lost sight of in the hurry and bustle
of this ever-increasing strenuous life; and
the healthy enjoyment that once pervaded
the Christmastide has given way mostly to
a superficial pleasure and delight. The value

of a gift is too often the criterion of appre--

ciation, rather than the spirit of mind that
prompted it. g ;
Yet, underneath the seeming careless ex-

And it is then the |

were lighted with |

T
|
|

Open Forum

(This department is conducted by the editor, for the
benefit of those members of the student body, or faculty,

| who desire to express their opinions on any matter which
| might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of
| the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted
| for the betterment of campus life, and that the students
will express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted
discussion on campus problems. The names of the writers
will be withheld from publication, if such is the desire of
the writer. All articles must
of The Davidsonian by 7:00 p. m. Monday.)

IN REGARD TO THE ANNUAL
The following letter from the business manager
of last year’s Quips and Cranks is self-explana-
tory:

“In one of the editorials in the last issue ot the

Davidson, thé editor referred to the fact that last

| year’s business management of Quips and Cranks

| had left a debt of over half a thousand dollars to

be liquidated by the present Annual Staff. In

| order that the readers of the Davidson may not

be misinformed the following will serve to cor-
rect somewhat this statement.

“At the opening of the college year a balance
Gf $390.00 was due the publishers of 1924 Quips
and Cranks. Checks in the amount of $104.00
were sent, leaving a balance of $486.00, Advertis-
ing accounts in the amount of $73.00, and frater-
nity assessments in the amount of $102.50 were
still due, and at the request of this year’s man-
ager were turned over to him for collection. This
De-

ducting from this the discount received from ap-

would leave the balance to be paid $310.50.

proximately 200 individual photographs, would
leave the balance at $210.50,

“Another fact to be taken into consideration is
that something like twenty-five annuals ordered
were not taken by students, some of them mem-
bers of the present Senior class. This item would
amount to $75.00 which would reduce the balance

| further making the deficit considerably less than
| half a thousand dollars.

“The fact that last year’s staff handled a debt of
$880.15 should be taken into account in
dealing with this matter. An amount almost three
times that of the deficit by the 1024 Quips and
Cranks.

“The editor-in-chief was cither misinformed
as to the figures, or in a sudden outburst of
Class Spirit amplified somewhat in writing his
editorial. This article is not written to criticize
the editor of the Davidsonian, but merely to

| straighten out the matter of the deficit on the

| 1924 Quips and Cranks. The deficit was due to
two reasons, failure on the part of students to

| take annuals ordered, and over-runnnig the bud-

get fixed by the: Annual Staff. The latter was

| the fault of the Editor-in-Chief, the Manager, and

the publishers equally, not the Manager alone.”
(Signed) :

also

O. J. ALLISON,
Manager, 1924 Quips and Cranks.

In regard to the editorial comment on the an-
nual, which appeared last week, all we can say
is that there was no intentional slur cast upon
last year’s management. The only statement
made was that

|

|

| “The 1925 Quips and Cranks is sailing along
| under full steam again, despite the iceberg, in
the form of over half a thousand dollars deficit
| left by last year’s business management, which
| almost put it out of commission at the start of
her journey,”

It is easy to see where the misinformation came
n, as the manager says in his letter that at the

be handed in to the Editor

TIME AND SELF-EFFICIENCY

“IT don’t see how so-and-so does ‘$0 much! I
work my fool head off and don’t accomplish haif
as much as he does.”
time like that boy.

for anything, and hardly keep up with my work;

“IT wish I could utilize my

I don’t have time to go out

yet he takes in several of the school activities,

and then beats me in grades.” “I can’t under-

stand how these boys who go out for athletics

| pass their work at all, ’cause I don’t have time

for any exercise, and I don’t do anything extra in
my studies.”

Such are some of the plaintive remarks often
made by college students, and unfortunately, they

are absolutely correct when they say that they |

don’t have time for anything but their regular
college studies, and that they can’t understand
how other students accomplish so much more
than they do. They don’t seem to realize that

the other fellow’s day is just as short as theirs.

It is not a question of how much time they have, |

but how they use what time they do have.

Present day college life is pretty strenuous. It
is true that a student’s time is heavily drawn on
by the many college activitics outside of his reg-

ular college work. But the fact that there are

so many activities to choose from makes it easier |

for the students to have a well rounded college

life; that is, of course, provided that the student |

wants to get the most out of his college course.

There is considerably more to be learned at col-
lege than books, and on the other hand, athletics,
or dramatics, or how to be a good mixer in polite
society, The man who goes to college and learns
nothing but books has wasted half of what his
attendance at college cost him; and the man who
attends college solely for athletics is a poorer
The student
his self-efficiency to the highest point is the one

economist. college who develops

| who trains his mind with his body, ahd at the

i
beginning of the college year the balance was |

$590.00. If a mistake has been made, we are glad
to rectify it.

However, in justice to this year’s management,
it is only fair to say in regard to the above state-
} ments, that $50.00 of the $104.00 in checks came
| from the sale of annuals, which students had
| ordered and failed to take; that $35.00 of the

| $75.00 advertising debts turned over to the 1925 |

staff were uncollectable; and
cleared from discounts received on individual -pic-
| tures came from this year’s individual pictures and
| by no stretch of the imagination could be credit-
ed to the work of last year’s management.

Tt was in no sudden outburst of class spirit
| that the line of comment was written last week.
We take this opportunity to present the facts to
the student body.

EDITOR.

exterior of pleasure-seeking, there lies a
+ deeper sense of respect and love for Christ-
mas. It has and always will be the most
joyous day in the year and everyone looks
forward to it as to no other day. It is then
friendships -are renewed and family -ties
made stronger. And fastly, because it is the
birthday of
world.

. C.F. S.

Christ, it is loved by all the

that the $100.00 |

same time does not neglect his social duties.

Theoretically, the purpose of going to college is ,

to attain the maximum of self-efficiency, in order
to be best prepared to serve in life. There are
several ways of increasing self-efficieney, but the
most effective method is probably systematic use
of time. Some students are naturally systematic

and accomplish a great deal with apparently lit-

tle effort as compared with some others, but no |

student really accomplishes anything without the |

consumption of some of his time and real energy.
The most causes of such remarks as

those quoted above are unsystematic use of time
and laziness.

common

always wishing that they could do things like
others, and dream that they do great things, but

they never get any further than this, because they |

are unwilling to put forth the necessary effort.

Last spring our minister preached a sermon on
how to economize time, and in this sermon he

There are lots of fellows who are |

|

suggested that the students make out a program |

of their daily work and divide up their time out- |

side of classes, setting aside definite periods for

study, others for their various meetings, others

for exercise, others for reading, and still others |

not assigned to any particular thing but to be |

used as the occasion demanded. This seemed a
very elaborate scheme, and I wondered at the

time how many of th@ boys would try it, and if

they made out such a schedule whether it would

be possible to follow it. To my surprise a good
many students immediately set to work and made
out a program, providing definite times for all
of the activities that they were interested in and

set to work to carry them out.

This method is not wholly without fault, but it
brings unusual and prompt results. It takes a
great amount of will power to change from a

take-’em-as-they-come to life to a systematic.and |

orderly life, doing things at a certain time, in-
stead of waiting for the spirit to move or the
notion to strike.

cause conditions are always arising that neces-

sitate a deviation from the schedule. But the

| fact remains that this method has a strong ten-

dency to systematize the life of the student and
puts more time at his disposal for things which

before he couldn’t find time to do. After a time

| a schedule is unnecessary and the student finds

that his efficiency has greatly increased, and that
instead of being rushed to death all of the time
and getting nothing one, ‘he has mese are te
devote to outside activities besides being more
officient in his work.

W. Hz. A.

And such a schedule cannot be |
strictly adhered to even for a whole day, be- |

Chaff

LETTERS TO SANTA CLAUS
Jaybirdsville, N. c.
dECEMBER oost., 192fore.

dear Sandy claws, :

I am writing you this hear letter becaws i dont
want you to forget me like you done lasf krismus.
U no, i cride for nerely a weak last yere, you no
you forgot to bring me my kiddie car and my pop
gun.

Pleze, mR. Santie, bring me a pop gun this yere,
for i want it so as i kan shoot out of my winders
when the nawty boys cut the dormitories lites
off at nite. U no, mr. Claws, i would hav maid
the ‘Fido Beat de Cat up’ whut they had here in
sherry hall a coupla weaks ago if peeWEE mc-
Kravy had left the lites on, butt i guess he thinks
i am an owl, an i cant do anny good if they
think like that. oH yes, i want a set of paper
dolls and a latin jack to, please sir, and i want a
subscription to good hOuskeapin, for mrs.
sMITHE sed if she ever found my room in the
fix it wuz in las time, she would hav me shipt. i
dont see nuthin bad in cuttin a hoal in the floor
big enough ter spit terbaccy juice in, do u? Then
i had nocked a hoal in the yall ter sea whut the
darned thing wuz made of, and their weren't
nary a log in there, either, their wuz only littal
pine slabs about the size uv the wons whut the
boys hold prayer meatings with. Wel, i must
stop. be sur two comé to ‘sea me this yere.

Yours trooly.
FATS LAWS.
Dive in, son, N. C.
yestiddy.
dere mistery klause,

iam a little boy about az big az a minnite with
thirteen seconds cut off of it, but i want sum
crismus two, pleze be sure too bring me lots of
nice things next chrismus. i want a carton ot
camels and about three plugs of bronwns mule,
but dont let him kick you while you are bringing
him to me. ialso want a set of craps and a little
leather cup and i wont drink coffee out of it
either. also bring me the kind of cards that i
kan play stripped poaker with. T dont know whut
kind of poaker that iz, but i can learn, for iam
young. listen, i maid up this hear poatry, how do
you like it:

iam young and full uv hoap
i wash my hands with octigun soap.
now i think u ot to bring me a pkg of hoam runne
cagaroots for that poatry. do it pleze. i will be
lookin for you.
yore little fren’.
JOSHUA BONEYPART KUYKENRALL,. JR.

Davidson, N. C..
December 11th,
1924.
The Rt. Hon. Mr. S. Claus,
59436870 Whiteway Bldd.
The Milky Way.
Dear Sir:

When in the course of human events it becomes
necessary for people to participate in the cele-
brations of the festal season, it is at that time
that the duites of Mr. Santa Claus become great,
and it is then that he must bound forth in all the
glory that he is able to bring to the surface of his
portly countenance that said prompousness may
aid. him in the distribution of incoherent play-
things among the ecclesiastical wanderlings of
the great irratic wastelands of America and
Baton Rouge, la.

It is therefore my request, Oh most wretched
of all human beings, that you make me a visit dur-
ing this coming season. According to the ex-
oteric assimulations and promulgations of the
pharmatical conscript of platonic coal heavers, a
penalty of the most assimulated character and de-
sign wil Ibe most fabulously acclimated to the
reader if he fails to confiscate and masticate the
above express desires of the writer.

It stands to reason that enough has been said
on the subject, and that by this time you surely
know that the writer has reasons, by far too
numerous to mention, for wanting you to send
to him prepaid and yet C. O. D., postpaid, and
yet collect, outlaid and yet displayed, one and
three-twenty-sixths ounces of parched peanuts.

Wishing you the highest degree of success in
your future work, I beg to remain,

yours very truly indeed,
JAMES PATRICK GLADNEY.
IPG: jh
Dictated but not read, he haw!

A telegram has just been received from Santa
who asks us, through the columns of CHAFF to
wish each and every inmate of Jaybirdsville a
most happy christmas. He also stated that any-
one who wishes to have his sock filled on the
night before Christmas to have it hanging up
right beside the loud speaker, as that is the way

che ill enteral “houses ‘this Christmas, and he

also wishes to remind all gentle readers that they
must be sure to mend all holes in their socks ex-
cept the one at the top.

G. McM. Jr.
