6

_ THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 14, 1924

mm

Literary Societies

Phi

The Philanthropic Literary Society
started the spring session with a very
good meeting. The affirmative side of
the main debate, respresented by R. H.
Brown and H. M. Wells won over R. O.
Sellers and F. K. Justice of the negative.
The query Resolved, that .the
United States should enter the world
court. In an extemporaneous debate J.
C. Barrington of the affirmative was de-
feated by J. E. Holshouser of the nega-
tice, on the question: Resolved, that the
students should have a home day for
visits by ‘the faculty. J. R. Gudger gave
an oration on “Credits,” in which he told
of the different kinds of credits every-
one gets from the different phases of
life. W. G. Houck gave an appropriate
oration on “The Ideals of Wilson, and
the Power of Roosevelt.”

Metro
The Metrophilian Literary Society ad-
journed a few minutes after it had con-
vened Tuesday night, on account of the
poor condition of the lights. The soci-
cty did not attempt to carry out any bus-
iness or any part of the program.

was:

Pan
The last meeting of the Pandeinic Lit-
erary Society was mostly taken up with
the discussion of the plan recommended
by the Alpha Phi Epsilon Forensic Fra-
ternity. The chief speaker of the even-
ing was W. M. Cox. The society will

operate on the plan of a regular con-
stituted legislative body, having the same
officers as under the old plan. The
parties will temporarily be under the

‘Plans Made for Student

Conference at Charlotte

leadership of W. M. Cox and D. B. Walt- |

hall. The rules of parliamentary pro-
cedure were discussed and mimeograph-

ed copies of rules, issued by the Public |

Speaking Department of the College,
were distributed. The reports of com-
mittees were heard and the meeting was
adjourned.

PURDY WILL EVACUATE COL-
LEGE INFIRMARY SUNDAY

The infirmary’s casualty list for last
week, due to flu and the prevention of
smallpox, included McCarty, McDonald,
McBryde, L. W. Wells, Fleming,
Carr, Stith, Pete Blue, Sam Inman
and Sam Doss. The case of Fresh Doss

is particularly interesting. One morn-}

ing he ventured down to see how many
classes he could get excused from and
upon reaching the infirmary was inform-
ed that he was not ill so he retraced his
steps back to Watts.

apparently ill. Immediately a stretcher
was brought and- he was hauled to the
infirmary: this time to stay a while
(where there’s a will there’s a way).

“However, Fresh Doss is again display-

ing the Red and Black around the cam-
pus and is feeling fine.

that Purdy is very much improved, after
having introduced the smallpox scare on
the campus. He will probably be re-
leased Sunday.

An hour later he}
was found (by Mrs. Smith) in his room!

Prominent Speaker and Volunteer |

Workers Will be on Program at
| Queen City

| Definite plans for the biggest Student

| Volunteer Conference of Old North
| State has ever known are fast mate-
| rializing. On Friday, March 7th, the
| first session will be held at Queens

| College, Charlotte, N. C., while the clos-
|ing consecration service will be on the
levening of Sunday, March oth. Queens
College Y. W. C. A. will be the hostess
jto the more than 300 delegates that are)
expected to enroll for the convention.

Speakers for the assembly are among
| the most popular in the country; typical
| among them is Tom Sharpe, Exccutive |
| Secretary of the Nation Union, who is!

the idol of volunteers far and wide.
|
In a number of ways, the coming con-

| ference will differ from those in the past.
,A unique plan of entertainment has been
perfected,

The delegates will be furnished break-|
fast and lodging at the homes in which

they are guests. Lunch and dinner will

| ; f

| be served in cafeteria style at the college.
; }

The student body will be glad to learn

Unusually attractive social features
are on the program, perhaps the most

| delightful event will be a monster ban-

quet in Charlotte Chamber of Com-}

WHAT IS YOUR OPINION
ABOUT THE FOLLOWING

How can the American student an-
swer the indictment made by world
leaders that American students don’t
really think? How is this indictment
justified, if at all?

Do American students care about or
keep up as a class with world affairs?
Is this caused by provincialism, self-
ishness, lack of initiative, lack of inter-
est, or the throng of activities crowded
into the college man’s life?

Is it necessary or even important
that American students keep up with
situations at home and in Europe and
Asia? Why so?

What influence will the American
student of today have in guiding the
trend of public opinion five and ten
years from now?

“Four things a man must learn to do
If he would make his records true:
To think without confusion clearly,
To love his fellow-men sincerely,

To act from honest motives purely,
To trust in God and heaven securely.”

TUXEDOS - FULL DRESS SUITS
— FOR RENT —

Masquerade Costumes - Party
Favors - Novelties - State your

wants. Mail orders given
prompt attention.

Southern Awning & DecoratingCo.
9 E. Fifth St
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

ANATOLE FRANCE

Anatole France, who is reported criti-|
cally ill in dispatches from Paris, is an}
eminent French novelist, who also has
done notable work as a critic and his-!
torian. His real name is Jacques Ana-|

|
tole Thibault, and he was born in Paris |

SHOWING AT
DAVIDSON
MONDAY, FEB. 18
TLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN

The DINNER SUIT

SDEBONAIR, comfortable,
tailored with the care that in:

merce hall.

|
ns ; | 80 years ago.
Too, the personnel, of the conference | oes os

sures both smartness and wear,
from materials approved by ex-
clusive use. The comfortextends

It was when he was 24}

; to the price.
will be different. In addition to the col-| Years old that his first work, a study of | ‘DINNER SUIT
lege delegates, a goodly number of | Alfred de Vigny, was published. It was| (Shawl collar or notch)
rf |
’ e alumni volunteers who have not yet em-| followed in 1873 by a volume of verse, $39.50
The Y ear Ss Sensation barked for the foreign field will be pres-| which attracted much favorable atten-
ent. Among the latter are numbered). But i SF : 5 Manufichired and sold exclusively b
some of the most active and able work-| ven AE Neu nee co ceee Oca NATLUXENBERG BR
‘ers in the entire state | was to shine more than in verse. A AT sad XDROS.
state. ee on i F lew address
Necessaiily cacliMilesotao si aaahenn skeptic in religion and science, doubting 841 Broadway N. W Cor, 13th Se.
placed on the total number of delegates | 4l! things, his opinions and doubts he eucnecwt ee

to be registered; each college has been| Put forth through the characters he
assigned a quota, but for which reserva- | created. He has a style that is simple
| tions will be held-no later than March | and direct and the real character of the
let man is reflected in his works. Anatole
| France was admitted >to the French
Academy in 1896. Critics have pronounc-
ed him the most graceful writer of mod-
ern France.—Charlotte Observer.

Branches:

177 Broadway, New York City.
231 Water St., Exeter, N. H.
863 Broad St., Newark, N. J.

Our style-memo. book will be sent
free on request.

Twenty-five is the quota assigned to!
Davidson College. Due to the proximity |
lof the conference this year, the David-|
|son quota will doubtless be filled at|
| once, The Presbyterian union is among
the most active in North Carolina and
the local band has always included in its
membership a number of the state lead-
bara The present treasurer of the state
junion is C. M. McBryde, of the Senior
, Class, while last year the president was

REX INGR, \} A” & | | “ - : - —_ _
: ox |

CENTRAL HAT SHOP
and

MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB

Dyeing Dry Cleaning Pressing
( Shoe Shine In Connection
: FIVE YEARS AGO Largest Oldest Best
OUCHE . | Honor roll men for the fall term 8 E. Trade St. CHARLOTTE

| were as follows:

Junior—A. L. Foscue with an
average of 95.80; Sophomore—W.
P. Cumming, 95.86; Freshmen—J.

From the novel by

|
RAFAEL SABATINI |
|

P. Price, 95.94 and J. M. Richards,
Adaptation by : |e 95-04.
WILLIS GOLDBECK i The 1919 Davidson basketball

varsity was on a trip through the
state of Virginia this week. The
team was composed of Davenport,
right forward; Harrington, left
forward; McAskill, center; Chal-
mers, right guard and Schenck, left
guard. The Wildcats fared badly
on the trip, losing a majority of the
contests played. Harrington was
the outsanding star in the game
with Virginia quintette.

Photography by
JOHN F. SEITZ

Featurine

|

|

ALICE TERRY LEWIS STONE |
RAMON NOVARRO |

“The perfect

| cream in the perfect container”
(This is the way one user describes Williams and the new Hinge-Cap)

Baseball practice started this oT ti
week with a large number of men Men buy Will act ing tofind
reporting to Coach” Hetzer. for their main satisfaction in the Hinge-
workouts. Nine letter men are Cap. But when they first use the

ated je back this year. They are: Ratch-
ford, Sutton, Boswell, Cassell,
Spann, Richards, Miley, Clark and
Currie. The schedule includes sev-
eral long road trips.
H The Greek fraternity averages
| for the fall term were announced
as follows: S. A. E. 83.56; Beta
Theta Pi 82.61; K. A. 81.04; K. S.
77-48 and P. K. A. 75.83. The S. A.
E. chapter was winner of the Belk
fraternity cup for the highest
scholarship record.

cream they get an equally pleasant

e surprise. The heavier lather, the

wil lia ms greater thoroughness with which it

e softens the beard, make a hit at once.

ng Then, Williams lather lubricates the

skin so that the razor fairly “glides”

the hairs off. And last, there’s that

m delightful after-care of the skin.

Truly, you'll find that with the Hinge-

Cap Williams is “miles ahead.” It’s

a pure cream without coloring matter
of any kind.

Crea

$250 in prizes

For the best sentenceof ten words or less on the valueof the Williams Hinge-Cap,

2. <. : . 2 :
Announcing Our New Ba weoter the following prises: 1st prize $100; 2nd prize $50; eet he Prizes, 025 each;

Location Near Post Office bn eer

NORTON’S "422"

! d worthy
f ded to each. C closes at
rch 14, 1924. Wi d as soon th fter as possible.
Submit any number of. slogans but write on one side of paper only, patitos name
address, college and class at top of each sheet. Add 1 to Ci itor,
The J. B. Williams Co.,Glastonbury, Conn.

t

Y.M.C. A. Theatre, Sat., Feb. 16, 7:15

