&

4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 3, 1924

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

thern Collegiat
Association

Member of S Press

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

LISTON D._ELKINS...-..-.-..-...--- Editor-in-Chief
REGINALD L. PRICE.----_---.---- Business Manager

Editorial Staff

Pig JigSTOR Verte ert cee Subscripti
WATT McCA Circulation Mana BaF
Sy oe Manto) Assistant LLY ob
. 5 con ist
i M. GARRISO IATEATE
Hy a McALP. a pueneued
. ° 2. 00! eeper
Wie Ri HOU GH cease a ig ese Advertising
REPORTERS’ CLUB

HURD, A. M., Pres. O'CONNOR, EF. P.

WHARTON, D. B., V.-Pres. PARKER, R. B.

APPLEBY, i M. PA . SCH.

BOWIE, A PITTS, B. Y.

GARRISON, J. M RATCHFORD, B. U.

GIBBS, L. B, REGEN, E, K.

GREEN, ask, OGERS, G. D

HOLLIN GSWORTH, A.H. THOMPSON, J. B.

MILTON, Wik. SMITH, C. F:

RE, J. E. STORY, P. J.
MONK, C.F. WILLIAMS, J. M.
MORROW, G. M. )§*7"—- WILSON, D.‘G.

Chong McIlwaine, newly elected head of the
Davidsonian, with his editorial board, the per-
sonnel of which is announced in this issue of
the Davidsonian, succeeds to the editor’s desk
with the next issue of the paper.

The editor takes this means of expressing his
deepest appreciation for the earnest co-opera-
tion of the retiring staff, and the sincere inter-
est manifested by the entire student body, in an
effort to make the Davidsonian the best college
weekly in the South plus “the livest wire on
the Hill.”

D

The sympathy of the entire student body is
extended to Mason Fields in his recent bereave-
ment.

D
Davidson will be.represented at the conven-
tion of the Southern Federation of College
Students held next week at Chapel Hill.
D.
IN UNION IS STRENGTH

HE surrender of the Davidsonian to
new hands brings the realization that
the work of the class of ’24 is about

completed. For the eighty-eighth time in
the history of Davidson College a Senior
class will be sent from the graduating halls
into the fields of service, to be succeeded on
the campus by another class whose capacity
to carry on the work left by capable hands
will push them further along the road of
achievement-than any preceeding class has
ever traveled,

The class of ’24 has stood for certain
ideals, and its leaders have exerted them-
selves to attain honors for the class and for
the college. Not only through its leaders,
but through the co-operation and teamwork
of its entire membership, ’24 has endeavored
to place every one of her activities a rung
higher in the scale of achievement. To ac-
complish this end every member of the
class has flung aside his personal desires and
selfish-ambitions. All thought of self was

swept away in a flood of class spirit and en-
thusiasm.

There are no individuals in the class of ’24.
Every individuality has been cemented into
an inseparable unit. It has moved.at all
times—some times in the wrong direction, it
is true—with a concentrated effort. The
physical law of friction has been exploded in
favor of a new law whose sense is friend-

uf harmony. and singleness of aim=.-.-—

ie greatest honor-that-could be paid to
’24 would be to be remembered as-“the class
_ that- stood together.” What a tribute for

Cc. M. S. Managing Editor
1 A. LAKE Assistant Managing Editor

. B. PRIC ssistant Managing Editor
With eGATHOWA Yes to scciccueuesuawuasaaubed Athletic Editor
Veet SELSER..... -----Peanut Parcher Editor

. Z. BRADFORD. A Editor
Ain Ora WAMDMANulasiisticccissesustuasinesee Associate Editor |
W. M. COX -Associate Editor
O. J. ALLISON Alumni Editor

any class to live on, after the achievements
of individuals have been forgotten. What
matters if the name of every member be for-
gotten, and ’24 lives on! Ten years from
now, when members of the class are review-
ing the days they spent on the Davidson
campus, they will feel a pride in the success
of the student government, the Davidsonian,
the Annual, the Glee Club, the Y. M. C. A,,
and other activities which were led by men
of 24. How much more sincere and earnest
will this pride be when it is remembered that
these successes were the result of a united
effort and the “everlastin’” teamwork of
every bloomin’ soul.”

The class of ’24 has been a successful
class! It will leave Davidson better than it
was four years ago!

But ’24 has done no more than have the
other eighty-seven classes which have gone
before. The errors of one class naturally are
a profit to the class which follows, and its
achievements are a foundation for higher
building.

25 will rise to a plane never before attain-
ed. May she profit by the errors of this
year’s class and may she accept the lesson
of coherent thought and action—byword
of '24,

A HOUSE CLEANING

“Just now the college is the haunt of a
lot of leather-necked, brass-lunged, money-
spending snobs who rush around the cam-
pus snubbing the few choice spirits who
come to college to seek out reason and the
will of God.”

Does your blood boil when you read this
statement? Does your heart action double?
Do you tear your tie into shreads in the
tense excitement which accompanies the
reading of such a paragraph from William
Allen White, editor of prominence?

If this statement doesn’t bring a tinge of
red to your cheeks, perhaps your calm and
serene nature can be stirred by the accusa-
tion of Mr. Smith, of Roanoke College, in
which the college women of America are
branded as “hard-drinking, cigarette-puff-
ing, licentious Amazons.”

Mr. White and Mr. Smith are merely in-
fluential units in an. organization of educa-
tional reformers, seeking, probably, not to
murder college education and higher learn-
ing, but to shame the students af the nation
into passiveness and a change of moral code.
They are relentless in their invictive utter-
ances. Their generalized statements are
purposed to spread like a blanket from coast
to coast. There are no “ifs” and “buts” to
exonerate a single college or a single college
student. They hurl their sharpened philip-
pics with little regard for the landing place,
and with a hope that they will cut to the
quick wherever they may land.

But few educators—men and women who
are sufficiently equipped and informed.to
combat the too general and exaggerated
statements of these critics—have made the
slightest effort to defend the college system
and the college student. Fewer students—
men and women not so competent to carry
on a counter-attack, but more privileged
to resent the slanderous outbursts—have
taken up the cudgel in their defense. “Hav-
ing no wish to advertise such rubbish by at-
tacking it,” is the reason asigned by Profes-
sor Phelps for the general quietude on the
part of the slandered. The retort will oc-
casion little additional publicity, however,
since the accusation has already been spread
abroad in the press and periodicals, and it

is but fair that something be said to exoner- :

ate the poor bedraggled aspirant for higher
and broader education, The student cannot
he the indolent, snobbish character portray-
ed in the caustic criticisms of Mr. White and
Mr. Smith. The college system would go
toppling if it were built upon such unstable
sands,

It is not my purpose, in this short article,
to combat these bold asserverations, worthy
though such a conflict might be. Rather I
would dig away the top sand which is blown
about by every passing wind, dig through
the top soil and examine the underlying
strata.

In every college, as in every other institu-
tion of life, there is a variety of types. A
student body naturally falls into a number
of groups. The laws of human nature re-
quire that certain of these groups fall below
the standards set by other of these groups.
There is always the group of the indolent,
the group of the sophisticated and selfish,
and so on. It is a serious mistake, then, for
a critic to accept any one of these minority
groups as a criterion for the judgment of an
entire institution.
one of the groups, the honor roll students,

for instance, be accepted as the measuring
rod? :

Might not as-well.any..

Open Forum

Chaff

This department is conducted by the editor, for the
beaks of those members of the student body, or faculty,
who desire to exp their op on any. which
might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of
the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted
for the betterment of campus life, and that the students
will express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted
discussion on campus problems. e names of the writers
will be withheld from publicati if such is the desire of
the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor
of The Davidsonian by 7:00 p. m. Monday.)

CO-OPERATION
In the recent discussion in this column much
that is true and right has been said but some has
been merely a very large explosion of hot air.
What the Davidson student body and the college
really needs is more co-operation and less hot

air.

If each man in the student body co-operates with
those who head our activities and the men who
play on our teams in the proper way surely they

will do their best. The Davidson student body

has not gone to the dogs, as some would have us
believe, but it merely does not have the proper
spirit of co-operation which true Davidson Spirit

demands. It is the spirit which makes us back

our teams, win or lose, that makes us do évery-
thing in our power to see Davidson at the top in
every way, regardless of present position, that
really counts.

This does not apply to athletics only. It applies
to every student activity. How can we better this
situation? Only by the co-operation of every
single man in the student body. The statement
has been made that almost any old thing can be
put across in student body meetings. Is that
true? Ask yourself, for in many cases your vote
plays a large part in the final result. When you
vote for something, do you first consider whether
or not it will be for the good of Davidson Col-
lege? Or do you just cast your vote at random?
In an election, do you vote for the man whom
you think is best suited for the office? Or-do
you vote for the man whom you like best but
who probably wouldn't be as good a man for the
job as some other man? When you do something,
do you do your best? You alone can answer
this, but—think it over.

Let’s back every officer of the student body,
every team win or lose, and do all in our power
to put Davidson College on the map and keep it
there. Let’s have more co-operation and less
knocking. Let’s make “Win for the honor of old
Davidson,” our motto, and—do it. It can’t be
done unless every man does his own part. Unless
we do, it can indeed be truthfully said that David-
son is on a par with Lenoir and Guilford and
Elon.

D. G. WILSON.

These warped opinions can not be taken
without a grain of salt. The college stu-
dents themselves know that the statements
are exaggerated, and that there is but a de-
gree of truth in them—but what about the
thousands and tens of thousands of people
who are not so familiar with college life?
They are gulping down every word of, the
William Allen White text, and from this diet
they are forming opinions of college life. As
long as these self-appointed critics continue
to defame the college man, the college sys-
tem will not occupy the place it should in the
minds of the general public. It remains,
then, for the collegian to hush this adverse
propaganda.

How can he do it? Not through the press,
you immediately say, for the undergradute
cannot combat the “old heads” and their de-
grees, on this ground. No credence will be
given to a reply if it come from the pen or
tongue of a mere student.

There is one way of correcting the adverse
opinions the public may hold, and to sub-
stitute for them a faith and belief in college
students. It is idealistic, maybe Utopian,
but it is the one way. Bring all the possible
pressure to bear upon the minority class
which is the cause of the unfair criticism,
start a reformation in this group, and com-
pletely wipe out the snob element of the
American college. As long as there is a
trace of snobbishness, faint though it may
be, the name and character of every college
man is endangered. The _ short-sighted
critic makes no exception for the man who
has the spirit of fraternity and equality in
his heart.

Colleges are becoming more and more or-
ganized every day. It should be the part of
every organization; no matter what its pri-
mary aims might me, to take stock of its
own membership with the view to “clean-
ing house.” This accomplished, a move-
ment should be set on foot to organize the
campus ‘against ‘“leather-nocked, brass-
lunged, money-spending” snobbishness. In
the colleges where this element is in the dis-
tinct minority, it can be easily wiped out. In
institutions where the group is larger, the
number can be materially reduced with an
earnest, concentrated effort.

MORE ELECTIONS

“Und did you notices, Mr. Feber, dot diss elec-
tioneering businesses iss getting more obstreptu-
rous all the times, Yes?”

“Und I did Mr. Wields. Iss electioneers any of
relations to auctioneers, or engineers? I haf
heard some vun says dot they vass all ears.”

“No, mine friend, Mr. Feber, but they haf al-
ways wants to get in the lime light of the public
eye, und to make their good vorks known. Now
take I’m for instance, who vas vunce a candidate
for chief dog catcher of Oshkosh, I would have
win but a hot dog man beat me in the races.”

“Dot vas too badly, mine friend Mr. Wields, and
did you get bit? I vas vanting to be a captain in
the Salvation Army, but when the converts would
tell of the whiskeys that they have drunk, I
could not restand the temptation to sympathize
with them, consequent, I was put on the police.”

“Vell, Mr. Feber, I’m afraid dot the present
generations think too many times of the honors
of elections, and not the moneys which they
should think of. Diss is the Land of the Free
but every thinks dot he iss free to get elected to
somedoings. I vould like to get elected to some-
dings if it vas no more than to be an Admiral in
the Horse Marines at Mares Island, Cal.”

THE UGLIEST MAN

This spring has seen the election of men for
nearly every office i nthe student body—class
presidents, student representatives,et cetera. It
is meet that a long deferred honor should be be-
stowed on a student of Davidson, and that is the
title of the ugliest man. It is a known fact that
Davidson men are known for their pulchritude of
physiognomy but notwithstanding this fact, there
are several men here who are potential candida-
tes for the World’s Ugliest Man.

Starting with the Senior class, Dick McMil-
lan undoubtedly leads the list, Rube Curdts and
Crown Prince Young coming not far behind. Ted
Jones is a potential candidates but some think he
is too insignificant to be noticed. He thinks that
he is good looking anyway.

Chong McIlwaine and Dick Littlejohn should
hold up the honor of their class and should have
no trouble in defeating even Dick McMillan, Goat
Lewis and Dope Mathewson are no cheap skates
when it comes to ugliness either.

For the Sophomores, Ben Franklin and Yeargin
are the most promising candidates, with Brenner,
Ramseur and Rayburn not far behind.

The Freshman class is rich in its store of jar
heads and dimwits but among the foremost we
might mention Freshes Wharton, Craig, Thomp-
son and Pinckney as the likely looking ones.

It is up to the student body as to when this
election shall be held. A large key should be
given to the winner, like unto a Phi Beta Kappa
key, made of platinum, brass or something sim-
ilar. He should be given a loving cup and if he
is not the most popular member of the student
body, we lose our guess.

Prof.—Mr. Faison, is the word pants singular or
plural?

’Lias—Well, doctot, pants are singular at the
top and plural at the bottom.

One Fresh asked another if he knew how rats
got in the house. The one who was addressed
said “Naw,” whereupon the First said “Uh Huh.

4,000 A, D.—Prof. R. B. Walker, XVII of the
University of Heidelberg, noted beer guzzler,
while on exploration tours for the International
Diabolical Society found the supposed ruins of
the ancient Collegio Davidsoniensis. While ex-
huming the remains from the coat of lava soap
cast up by Mount Mourne, the noted bacteriol-
ogist discovered interesting fossil remains of the
twentieth century. >

One interesting skeleton was found about seven
feet in length; the professor believing it to be
the remains of the ancient Zerah, Crown Prince
of the Ethiopians who was in that territory of
the time of the eruption. A faint odor of garlic
still clung to this relic of the past. A large and
ungainly looking fossil believed to be that of
some kind of unknown animal was exhumed from
the debris of a brick building. Its pedal apen-
dages were extremely long in relation to its size,
and the head was pecularly egg-shaped. A man-
uscript near the skeleton bore the name of E. M.
Regen, what this is, is not known.

A curious looking contrivance was found still
emanating wierd sounds from its interior, un-
couth and raucous they were: The strange name
“Victrola” was on it. An exceedingly large and
huge carcass in an excellent state of preservation
was found with a collection of bottles, with the
title “Coca Cola” on them, the being was evident-
ly in the act of imbibing of the fluid when the
lava. encompassed him... Papers found near the
body gave the name of McKinnon, and records
since discovered proclaim him to be the “Buffalo”
of history.
