Vol. XI

FOR A BE

AVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 10, 1924

TTER DAVIDSON ©

No. 15

Famous Men Address Seven Thousand
Students at International Conference

Ninth Quadriennial Gathering In-
cludes Representatives f r om
Bands in Thirty Countries

MANY DAVIDSON MEN

Questions of World Scope Discussed
by Groups and Views Presented
by Many Nationalities

The new Cadle Tabernacle, Indianapolis,
Ind., with about eight thousand seats, was
filled almost to capacity, when at 3:00 p. m.,
December 28, 1923, students representing
every important college and university in
the United States and Canada, as well as
thirty foreign countries, gathered together
for the “ninth Quadrennial Convention of
the Student Volunteer Movement. For five
days the tabernacle rang with the voices of
men whose names are houschold words; for
five days world problems were presented in
a practical way by leaders with a world vis-
ion, And now those seven thousand students
hav scattered to their own campuses, and
the story of the convention is yet to be told.

Three thoughts, cach leading up to the
next, seemed to run through the entire con-
vention, First, in the wards of John R.
Mott, The choice of one’s life work is small
in comparison with the choice of what shall
be the directing purpose of one's life. Sec-
ond, World problems can be nationally set-
tled only as the solution is based on principles
of Jesus Christ. Third, These problems of
every continent stand as a challenge to the

students of today, who must tomorrow take |

the helm in a strangely complicated new
world.

A new feature of the convention was in-
troduced in the form of about 50 discussion

groups, where the group opinion of students |
from all parts of the country could be form- |

ed. The two questions which claimed the

largest share of attention were those of race

equality and the prevention of war. Many
(Continued on page 3)

Pi Kappa Phi Sanctions
Petition of Kappa Phis

Local Fraternity’s Petition Favored
at National Conclave in Atlanta

At the national convention of Pi Kappa
Phi fraternity, held during the Christmas
holidays, in Atlanta, sanction was given for
the regranting of a Pi Kappa Phi charter to
a group of Davidson men. Three represen-
tatives of Kappa Phi local attended the
Atlanta conclave in the interest of the
petitioning fraternity, and the action taken
by the national organization indicates that
Davidson will soon have her sevent: national
fraternity.

M. C. Stith, W. M. Heston and I. L.
Price were the three Davidson representa-
tives at the annual conclave. The full mem-
bership of Kappa Phi local, organized last
fall, is as follows:

M. C. Stith, R. L.. Price, W. S. Glenn,
John M. Selser, J. E. Reid, W. M. Hestoa,
H. L. Shaw, Jr., E. T. Buck, C. M. Brown,
F. C. Kugler, Kenneth Lewis, B. W. Wil-
liams, C. M. Streibich, W. M. Gracey.

Pi Kappa Phi was formerly represented at
Davidson. The charter was withdrawa and
the order disbanded in 1918, during the war.
The reorganization of Pi Kappa Phi will
meet popular approval on the campus, ac-
cording to opinion expressed since the open-
ing of the new term when announcement was
made of the action of the Atlanta Conyen-
tion, : ;

It is announced by members of Kappa Phi
that inspection of the local will be made in
the near future and definite action will be
taken, following the sanction of the na-
tional conclave. In the event that the char-
ter is regranted at Davidson the new chapter

“will be installed during early spring, it is

.

Dvieved.

we <

Be

POPULAR WILDCAT MEN-
TOR SIGNS COACHING
CONTRACT
Dr.

. rector

J. M. Douglas, the faculty di-
athletics, makes the an-
nouncement that Coach Monk Younger
has been signed as head coach for the
year 1924-1925, In addition to this
Dr. Douglas makes the statement that
Coach Monk's work has been satis-
factory in every respect to the Athletic

of

Council. Considering the material at
hand to work with and the fact that
this was Younger’s first) year, the

Council is exceedingly well pleased
with the record of the team and pre-
dicts that in 1924 Davidson will have
a football team second in ability to
none as this year’s team was in de-
termination and fight.

Men Attending Conference
Address Students ab Ve

Price, Hudgins and James Give Im-
Pressions Gleaned at World
Conference

The first “Y" service of the new year
{was conducted wholly by students and was
lof the nature of a report on the ninth Stu-
{dent Volunteer Quadrennial Convention, held
at Indianapolis, Indiana, during the closing
days of the last year. Seven Davidson stu-
dents were present at this convention, while
{16 more former Davidson men were dele-
gates from other places.

Ted Jones, president of the Y. M. C. A,
| presided and made a few remarks about the
!convention which he said was a student con-
'vention with seven thousand delegates from
jall over the world, and which included every
| kind of student. It was the regular conven-
tion of the Volunteer Movement, but not
‘solely that, for it was representaive of the
|student thought in the various student move-
| ments of the world today.
|
|

Perrin Hudgins spoke first, giving his im-
pressions of the conference. The keynote
| seemed to him to be the right of God to a
| place in our lives if we wish to make the
|most out of them. With reference to Mott
land Eddy he showed the willingness of God
to come into our lives, and that it is only as
we open the door that His power can flow
into our lives and through them into other
lives,

Harry Price brought some of the mes-
sages of John R. Mott with directness and
vigor. According to Mott, the present gen-
eration is “dissatisfied with the past and with
the present; is critical; is enquiring; hates
sham and hypocrisy; it has a spirit of vision
and adventure; and it is ready to go to ex-
tremes even as Christ went to extremes.”
Because of these qualities this generation is
prepared to begin solving world problems
and national problems. Many of these prob-
lems are readily recognized while others are
of a more subtle nature. “Shall we go ‘into
life to change the dollar mark?” ‘Shall
the South become provincial in its 77>
with the negro?” “Can a business n Silicin
a politician, follow the Jesus way of Iu. ._
It was the last question which was most
scathing in its keen analysis of the average
college student. It asked, “Are we to put
our energies into non-essentials to the ex-
clusion of fthe essentials? That is, Is the
spiritual side of us to be less thought of
than the pleasure side? Is the lighter side
of life, which has a place, to rule our lives
and prevent the deeper part of us ever hay-
ing a chance of_teal service?”

Randolph Jone® Spoke last. | He told of the
world speakers who addressed the convention
and who hurled indictments against the aver-
age college student. They were that he
knows nothing of world affairs and he is

(Continued on page 3)

C. M. DAVIS
Captain-Elect 1924 Football Team

Students Back at Work
After Two Weeks Vacation

Boys Return to Long Grind Before’
Exams Break Monotony

The chapel bell on january 3rd bespoke |
the end of a perfect two-weeks’ holiday for |
Davidson stadents, summoning them back to
work after an acceptable vacation spent at
home and with relatives. Approximately
550 students have registered up to date, sev- |
eral failing to return after the holidays and |
the customary few absent by reason of too
good a time at home.

With the advent of the mid-term exami-
nations due by all probability to occur the
last of this nronthy many have felt the crave
to Knuckle down and bolster up their study-
ing average by spending a few moré hours
with their books in order to wind up with a,
great flourish their exams. As examinations
officially begin on the 22nd, only 12 days of

(Continued on page 2)

RESOLVED by the Senior Class
in mass assembled on this, the
seventh day of January, 1924,
THAT, inasmuch as any destruc-
tion, defacement, or pollution of
property is uncalled for, unwar-
ranted, and indicative of baseness
and immorality; WE, as students
of Davidson, beneficiaries of her
Alumni and friends,—objects of
philanthropy! if you please, and
guardians of a sacred trust, are
doubly bound, yes, bound a hun-
dred times by the moral obligation
of preserving these, buildings and
grounds we are privileged to use,
and leaving them to future genera-
tions defaced alone by time and
proper service.

THEREFORE, the Class of 1924
as a unit places itself definitely op-
posed to all uncalledfor damaging
of college property both useful and
o*jamental.

EACH MEMBER, deeply sen-
sible of his personal duty, FUR-
THER PLEDGES HIMSELF to
uphold the spirit of this resolution
by his own conduct, thus dis-
couraging the evil, and to prevent
it even by force when and where
necessary.

tig

The conditions are so known that
the above may speak for itself.
(Signed): Randolph Jones, Jr.,

President.
By J. L. McLean,
Secretary.

4

Coach Younger Develops Red and Black
Cagemen Into Well-Balanced Machine

CHRISTIAN ELECTED TO
LEAD FRESHMAN CLASS

At a meeting of the Freshman class,
held after chapel on the morning of
January 7th, W. A. Christian, Jr, was
Other nominees
were EE, A, J. Hewlett,
C. C. Murehison, TH, O. Sapp, J. 1.
McConnell, J. 1. All of

the men except Christian were nomi-

elected president.

I. Bohannon,
Pinckney,
nated by the Student Council, On the
first ballot Christian, Sapp, and Pitiek-
ney were the highest, but on the final
ballot Christian had an overwhelming
majority. Christian is a man who will
lead the class of ‘27 in a true David-
son manner. The other class officers
will be elected later,

Hoboing Favorite Sport
of Boys During Vacation

Many Boys Take Advantage of Free
Rides to Make Long Holiday
Trips

Answering the primeval call of the wilds,
and the of David-
son's students utilized their Christmas yaca-
tion by hiking to their homes and to other
places, scorning the more modern convey
ances such as railroad trains, and depending
on their pedal extremities and such rides as
might be encountered along the length of
the road. Trips ranging from one hundred
thousand miles were made by

of open road, several

fo a those

students seized with the wanderlust and with |

a craving for the home hearth fire that offset
any thought of a depleted purse.

Henry Martyn White, the original back-
to-nature man of the campus, engaged upon
a survey of that part of the Land of the
Sky adjacent to Mount Mitchell and Ashe-
ville, with Nuncle Mellwaine as his side
partner. Henry met the last-named traveler
at Statesville, after having hoboed to Ra-
leigh in 12 hours, and they two set out for
the high hills with full marching and camp-
ing regalia.

A sleeping bag knocked off the chilly
blasts of the Blue Ridge at nights while the

‘culinary skill of Henry Martyn provided
‘some sort of sustenance that kept the way-

farers nourished during the stay. Wild tales
have come back from this region of the
quantities of mountain dew that was drunk
by them and of the fierce man-killers that
were bearded in their dens. Their route lay
along the South Toe river, and the slopes
of the higher ranges of the Blue Ridge, and
pictures were taken of this beautiful section
in addition to the more strenous work of
keeping warm and getting enough to cat.
Perrin Hudgins and Norman Patterson,
with blankets swung over their ‘shoulders,
lived off the country as they advanced on

Squad of Twelve Men Battle for
Position on 1924 Wildcat Quint

Prospects Bright for Winning Quint
—Regular Line-up Undecided

With the effeets the Christmas holidays
subsiding .the cage artists are hard at work
for their last stretch of intensive training
hefore the opening contest with the Char-
lotte "Y" at the Queen City next Monday
night. Since the holiday interruption the
men have been holding daily work-outs, and
rounding to the point where they will be
keyed and ready for the first battle.

With seven letter men and several other
prominsing Players Coach Monek will have
a chance to piék a good team. The loss last
year of Pat Crawford and George Mauze,
two former Wildeat captains of the cage
court fighters, is one that is going to be felt.
Mauze and Crawford were a pair that work-
ed with clocklike precision, the latter at floor
guard position, and the former at center.
The selection of men to fill these vacancies
is puzzling Coach Monek, and the men who
will be able to cop these berths will not be
decided upon until after the first game in
Charlotte.

There are only three of the positions ap-
parently cinched, according to the coach, Red
Laird, who has been tried out at the guard
position, is going to be shifted to the for-
ward berth, according to present indications,
Red is not fast enough for a guard, but will
be able ot show his mettle at forward. Staley
will be his partner, and in him will be seen
one of the fastest forwards that will appear
on the local hardwood floor this year. Staley
is light, but he can effectively deliver the
goods. Only one of the guard positions have
been filled, Sook Boggs havingscaptured it
by his stellar and steady playing. Boggs
will keep the Wildcats’ opponents some dis-

(Continued on page 2)

Billy Sunday Will Speak

Before Davidson Audience

Noted Evangelist Accepts Invita-
tion to Address

Billy Sunday has accepted an invitation to
visit Davidson College some day in the im-
mediate future. The date he will be here
has not yet been definitely decided, but it is
certain that he will come. His acceptance
was received only after being invited re-
peatedly. ;

His intensive revival in Charlotte is now
well under way. Meetings are held twice
daily at 2:30 and 7:30 p.m. A huge taber-
nacle with a seating capacity of about 7,000
has been erected especially for the occasion,
The campaign will last until February 10th.
It began December 30th.

Tomorrow night will be known as Stu-
| dents’ Night. The Davidson student body

| Richmond, approaching that city from Da- | has chartered a special train for the trip.
i vidson, and riding in big cars most of& the|}The Queens and Winthrop student bodies
jway. Stopping only long enough to see | have also been inyited to attend. The pro-
| some of the fair sex at Greensboro, they set | gram will be exceptional and extremely well
out again and soon secured a ride from aj worth attending.

| Connecticut Yankee who was secking his} Many students are availing themselves of
native heath after a sojourn in the Land of | the opportunity afforded by the special
| Flowers. Another ride with two more young | busses to attend the revival services. Busses
gentlemen brought them as far as their des- | leave Davidson at 1:20 and 6:20 daily, re-
tination with only an expense account of 80j| turning at 9:'30 p. m. The special rate for
cents each to show for their time, including | the round trip is the minimum price of one
ja six bits’ dinner Friday. | dollar.

Atlanta and Birmingham claimed the at-| Mr. Walter Jenkins, of the Billy Sunday
| tention of those boys who were following | party, an experienced and noted singer and
| Grecly’s advice to go West. “Blackie” Ray-| musician, is in charge of the singing. He
|burn undertook the longest trip of all, get-| handles the four hundred voice choir as if
|ting from Davidson to Birmingham and from|it had had considerable previous training.
| that place back to Jaybirdsville and school.| Special seats in the bass and tenor sections
His destination was his home in Puldski,|of the choir are reserved for Davidson stu-
Tenn., but was forced to ‘mount the “iron | dents.
|horse” at Birmingham in order to save time.| Mr. Sunday is receiving capacity crowds:

(Continued on page 6) | (Continued on page 8)
