4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 13, 1924

The Davidsonian |

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press

e Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class’ :

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cetits per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

: ‘ 7 i i J a

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

LISTON D._ ELKINS
REGINALD L, PRICE...

-Editor-in-Chief
Business Manager

Editorial Staff

C. M.S. McILWAINE ec ecenso-~--.----Managin
J. A. LAK} Assistant Matiagiie
H, B. PRIC Assistant Managing
W. F. GALLO .--------Athletic
J. M, SELSER-.__. Peanut Parcher
W. Z, BRADFORD_ ~----Associate
C. WILDMAN- -Associate
-Associate

e Editor
-Alumni Editor

Business Sta

1 Af, Subscripti
J -o-6- weer ee ne -- se § ption

W ay T Mc Circulation Manager
att Assistant Manager

ah EG .-Typist

. my AEB CAH:

W. Tt. y Bookkeeper
y f Drs reper

W. R. HOUGH --Advertising |

REPORTERS’

HURD, A. M., Pres.
WHARTON, D. B., V.-Pres.

CLUB

APPLEBY, 1M PATRON: JCIL

BOWIE hi PITTS, B.

GARRISON, J. M. ATCH

GIBBS. i, REGEN,

iREEN, J. L. ROGERS, G. D.
HOLLINGS WOK THOMPSON, B. |
MILHOUS, J. SHAW, HL. L. |
MUTON, Wi E SMITH, C. F. |
a “My . wt S x “ |
MOORE, ‘J. STORY, P, J.

WILLIAMS, J. M.
WILSON, D.'G.

EDITORIAL

A SEAT OF ACTIVITY

MORROW, G. M.

SHAME it is that Davidson is so far

from the attractions and the entertain-

ment of the city, is frequently heard from
students. Yes, what a pity it is! © Nothing for
the Davidson man to do with his time! _

_ At present the athletic enthusiast may par-
ticipate in spring football, baseball, track, ten-
nis or golf. Teams are heing put in the field in
all these sports. And, still there is an interest
in the hardwood floor, an average of 20 or 30
men patronizing the gymnasium every after-
noon, :

Two intercollegiate debates are in the bud
one with Emory University and another with |
Trinity College. There is aiso an intercollegiate |
debate with the University of North Carolina,
arranged through the Spanish departments of
Davidson and Carolina,

Junior Speaking, with its multiplicity of
committees, plans and arrangements, is but a
few paces to the fore. This is one of the big-
ges undertakings of the year.

The Glee Club is functioning on frequent oc-
casions, and the Dramatic Club is anxiously
awaiting an opportunity to squeeze in a little
fun. Classes in make-up and stage direction
have heen arranged, three one-act plays will
probably he presented Junior Week, anda Min-
strel has heen suggested for Commencement.

The Y. M. C. A, is

2 Me diligently following up
the Life Service Conference with a campaign
of activity, in addition to its manyfold services
to the student body. :

The too numerous honorary fraternities and
societies claim from three to. five nights out of
the week. Particularly long and tedious are
the meetings and conférences at present in the
light of approaching elections, |

The publications cannot find a moment for |
let-up. They pursue their task with a relent- |
less vigor, week ‘after week and month after
month,

In addition to these minor activities there is
the regular routine of college study, college lec-
tures, special entertainments and incidentals.

An American college is a universe in itself,
probably too much so; when we consider the
charge that college students isolate themselves
from the world and its activity, and there is
little danger of stagnation or decadence. Da-
vidson is personified activity, and its separation
from the modern city is by no means a cause
for concern. On the campus there is entertain- |
ment, there is activity, there is life and spirit ;
yet, there are cloistered retreats where one may

she. alone. with. himself if he should so desire.

Don’t think your college is too far removed
from civilization. Make use of the opportuni-
ties that are yours in an ideal environment.

TIME-BINDING US

“More time! More time!” the poor over-
organized, rushed-to-death college students are
crying. Our life is a feverish round of one
thing after another! We stay up all night and
dash about all day and never find satisfaction.

Dr. Karl T. Waugh, Dean of the College of
Liberal Arts of the University of Southern
California, has surveyed the activities of the
students of southern California and, evidently
believing that the cause of low grades is due to
the fact that students do not order their lives
by a fixed schedule, has made out a program
allotting some task to each hour,

At first this program appears rather startling.
Then calculation reveals the fact that Dr.
Waugh has only dissected a five-day week.
There are evidently two days, then, on which
one may enjoy a lazy freedom. ‘The rest of
the week is to be divided as follows:

Class recitation, 16 hours; preparatory study,
32 hours; dressing and meals, 12 hours; exer-
cise and recreation, 12 hours; sleep, 48 hours.

This makes a total of 120 hours, or five full
days. It sounds rather ideal, but simply doesn’t
work that way. One would like to do some
questionnairing of students. How many ever
get nine and a half hours of sleep regularly?
How many ever ate three meals and dressed—
if only onee—in two and a half hours? And
then—the crowning luxury—six and a_ half
hours a day for study! Given a student and a
few books and peaceful quietness, and this
might happen—but we are given so much more!
Do you remember a day—outside of examina-
tion week—when you had six and one-half
hours to study and nine and one-half in which
to sleep? Two of the precious six were per-
haps spent in waiting for “meetings” which
failed to meet, and the rest in hunting for peo-
ple who had to be seen about something or
other. Professor Waugh’s scheme is most ap-
pealing—especially the two wholly unscheduled
3ut somehow, it doesn’t fit the existing
Still—every perfect map of the
The New Stu-

days.
college order.
world should include Utopia.
dent.

= D.

A thing of heauty is a joy forever, advises the
Junior Week Committee, in making sugges-
tions for types to be asked up for Speaking.

D:

Spanish classes, Spanish plays, an intercol-

legiate Spanish debate, a Spanish Sunday
School class, El ClubEspanol, Spanish songs
and perchance a Spanish dance! Hot tamale!
What an ideal environment for the Bull!

D

It’s simply scan’lous the way the paragraph-
ers are making use of oil. No kick comin’,
though, as long as it’s done according to oil,

D.

Some people, when they can find nothing in
the world to do, do nothing. Others write

poems and stories from song titles.

gE pe

From the pulpit, the platform and the press
there is a never-ceasing plea for leadership.
Have you ever stopped during the course of the
day’s work to consider that there is a much
more important lesson to be learned first—the

lesson of followship.
D

‘\ month ago Mah Jong was as foreign as

gold dollars as far as the Davidson campus was
concerned. And now it ’pears like dormitory
teams will be formed for a championship series.

Gosh, how these games do change. Well, any-

how we don’t care! - It’s a better game than

Old Maids. :
D.

Writing paragraphs while half conscious in

a hospital is the fondest thing a paragrapher is

of, to use the language of our good friend Oc-

. tavus Roy. It’s tike walking in one’s sleep—

when you get somewhere! you don’t know it, but
you don’t care cause you wasn’t going there
anyhow. ‘

Open Forum

Chaff

(This department is conducted by the editor, for the
benefit of those members of the student body, or faculty,
who desire to express their opinions on any matter which
might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of
the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted
for the betterment of campus life, and that the students
will express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted
discussion on campus problems. The names of the writers
will be withheld from publication, if such is the desire of
the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor
of The Davidsonian by 7:00 p. m. Monday.)

QUIT KNOCKING

We are living, that is one thing certain. Like any
other organism in this great old world of animate life,
We cat, that
We grow in stature if not in other things.

we have our three meals. much is
necessary.
We are conscious that here is, around us, our environ-
ment; society and its restraining influences, customs,
laws, morals, religious beliefs and authority. We are
We live

in an environment that is not of our own making, but

not free; that also is another thing certain.

we must meet that environment, co-operate with it,
That
We have a physical as well as a

not coerce it too much to make life a success.
is just the problem.

social environment. We must meet them both, but

“the social is the hardest nowadays.

Then where are we? We sit on top of the world

in one respect at least. We head the list of animals
in that we have the brains.

We think.

This is what raises us above our humbler kindred ‘of

We are supposedly intel-
ligent. At least we have the faculties.

the dust. But are we using these faculties ?

Rand may call us just a thinking thing. We can’t

prove he isn’t right. But some of us do make that
assertion very doubtful when we show so few signs
of the process. - This is just what our friend Galloway
has been talking about. He could have boiled down
some of his bull. He could have left some of itegin-

said. We can’t think too free and alone. If we do,

we shoot off at a tangent.

Let's not think, or let’s not live like mere beasts.
Don't
and best in life to shut yourself up and become a mind

he extremes. Don’t consider it the greatest

only, a mental aescetic, a radical. Don't believe your
Get out and experience
If

you haven't been a college professor don’t think them

own opinions are always best.

something before you form opinions too hastily.

conservative, narrowedumbbells, just because you your-
self can’t understand. If you think the college all
wrong and away behind, what about going some-
where else for a change and see that it is not so bad
all.

imagine yourself in his place for a while.

here after And if the president doesn’t suit,
It is very
easy to criticize.

In other words, think, but think fairly. Try to un-
derstand how he gets that way and you will usually
find that he is thinking to a purpose just as you are.
You can't do the other fellow’s thinking for him,
Get into your own environment. You will usually find
it hard enough if you intend to get anything out of it.
Do you realize that the environment of other people,
their position, their station in life is perhaps a little
different from your petty own? Think for yourself
for a while, not so much how the other fellow ought

to live and do things.

Meet your own environment and make of it what
you please. If you enjoy literature, or flowers, don’t
think the fellow a dumbell who doesn't. In other
words, don’t waste the time figuring out how every-
thing is all wrong, how the college is going to the
dogs. It isn’t, no matter how distorted, lazy: and
cramped our college life is. You don’t belong here
unless you know how to fit; unless you know how to
think out your own problems. We can't do much
with the world's’ or the college’s problems until we

have demonstrated the ability to master our own.

We are here at Davidson, perhaps from choice, per-
haps not. But we can’t get around the fact that we

are here. There may be many things wrong, we

won't change them by knocking. We are here’'to
build a personality, not to sit on a jury that passes

judgment on all that goes on here.

It

will be admitted that Davidson doesn’t keep each and

We have been accused of late of not studying.

every student with his nose to the grindstone, and we
ought to be glad that it does not. We have our bull ses-
sions, our play, our social affairs and other interests
Why not?
sides to a man than just bone-headed study.

There are more
Then
Let some

as well as our work.

solve your own problems while in-college.
of the rest of the world go by. We are here to round
outa personality. Let's da it, but not radically and
skeptically= Life is almost a failure if we don’t fit at
college. Quit knocking, and let’s make things go.

Bevo Davis.

RADIO
Kiss me by radio,
That is the stuff.
Lady O! Lady O!

’Taint close enough.

Them were the sentiments expressed by a dashing
shick when his fair Juliet expressed herg opinion that
his osculatory powers could be used Pine best ad-
vantage when mixed in with the Hertzian waves. But
of course no self-respecting youth could ever withstand
the female lure from such a distance.

“Where are thou, Radio?” of rather we should say,
“Where ain't they?” Since radio has the good ole
U.S. A. in its grip the clusive static and wave lengths
have formed a combination that nothing except a radio
Instead of
it’s “What are

Everybody has to

set of your own can buck up against.
“What Are the Wild Waves Saying ?”
the Radio Waves Broadcasting ?”
radio to keep in the swim, and to discourse intelli-
gently on the wave lengths, variocouplers, and grid
leaks and such if he or she expects to be number 399
in the smart 400 set.

——Wild Waves

Take our friend Bill Sadie, he’s a regular human
dynamo; a magnetic personality, sparkling wit, and

everything he has on is charged.

Wild Waves:

Suggestions for Broadcasting Station initials which
will suit the action to the word:

Chicago—C. O. D.; Richmond—F. F. V.; Detroit--
F. O. B.; New York—P. D. Q.; Home (wherever it
may be)—S. O. S.; Davidson—B. U. L. L.

Wild Waves

In days of old, when knights were bold, each wore
a suit of tin. He had no flannels for the cold nor golf
socks for his shin. To take a ride with his fair bride,
he'd mount his fiery steed, while wifie rode along be-
side to fill his every need. In those old times a book
of rhymes, and say perhaps a song costing but a paltry
dime would answer mighty strong for books and
plays or roundelays that set our ears agog and for
which duly offer praise, though unfit for a dog. When
all alone, they had no phone to get the neighbor’s gab,
which, like the summer wind, is blown for all in
sight to grab. The rustic hicks out in the sticks de-
pended on the flow of gossip’s tongue, his life to mix

with scandal’s latest blow.

Wild Waves:

But in this age of wit and sage, each has his radio
to substitute for printed page or moving picture show.
Some bits of brass, a tube of glass, with thingumbobs
thrown in, to let the captive static pass or raise a
raucous din; some strands of wire, a truthful liar,
to get his hook-up wrong—the whole works raise a
fellow's ire, though simple as Mah Jong, which game
is played by man and maid since China’s on the map.
But radio’s the only trade for some poor simple saps.

‘Wild Waves:

With anxious look and opened book, the novice
“listens in” to stations in some far off nook and quite
beyond his ken. And there he sits in static fits while
turning knobs and screws, his rubber earmuffs gather
bits of rag-time jazz and blues. Into the night, with
shaded light, he twists his wires and dials and less he
mar with vicious spite some costly bulb of vials, he
tends with care all parts to spare and never hates a
chance to tinker with the cold thin air. He never
needs a horoscope to sense the good news there. And
if perchance, he likes to dance or cut a pigeon-wing,
the ether will his plans enhance, or teach him how to
sing. A talk on “Drinks” by Doctor Blinks, and then
a bed time tale, will loosen up the stingy gink who
never spends his kale: and cause this bird’s song to
he heard in every town and city, “I'll buy a set upon
my word and tune in on some ditty.” The times are
bad, the wireless lad stays up until two and three. The

’

“wireless widow's” quite as sad as golf ones used

to be.

Wild Waves

But Henry Jones, in joyful tones, says “I shall
never stir. I'll stick to my old wireless phones, for I
am a widower. My darling wife has ceased her strife
and ‘tunes’ in on New York to learn the fashions-of
their life or how to use a fork. She sits there long
to learn a song and let the house work lay. The fam-
ily budget’s all gene wreng, it’s fading day by day.
But why should I lose out and cry, or give my heart
a blow? If wifie has her freedom, why I’ve my
radio.”

——Wild Waves
