4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 17, 1924

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press

Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of

the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE._...--.--.---- Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN....--.-.- Business Manager
Editorial Staff
Cc. F. SMITH Ma Editor
Wiki MILTON os ese Assistant Managing Editor
Ci DRiCMONKS22. oe ay Assistant Managing Editor
J. M. SELSER Athletic Editor
A. F. Peanut Parcher Editor
i A, LAKE A Editor
. B As Editor
H. v...-A8 Editor
G. Alumni Editor

Reesees| Circulation Manager
Ss ription Manager
eee Teter ed Service Manager

W. H. LYNCH...

Typist
REPORTERS’ CLUB

L. B. GIBBS, Pres. R. H. McILWAINE
D. G. WILSON, V.-Pres. G. McMILLAN
A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas. }; E. MOORE
i M, APPLEBY =. P. O'CONNOR

, M. AUSTIN R. B. PARKER
W. H. BRANCH B. Y. PITTS
W._T. COVINGTON B. U. RATCHFORD
J. M. GARRISON E, K, REGEN
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH i: B. THOMPSON
P. F. JONES L. D. WHARTON
W. H. LYNCH W. S. WGODS

Junior Week, the most joyful period of the
Spring term, is with us once more.

D:

The boarding houses have been asked not to
serve onions during the next four or five days.
D:

Classes expired yesterday and will stay in

that condition till Tuesday. No funeral dirges
will be sung. Requiescat in pace.

D:

If Jupiter Pluvius will be kind this week,
Cupid’s votaries will burn incense at his shrine.

D.

The only thing more enveloping than David-
son hospitality is Davidson mud. April show-
ers‘have been so frequent that the ground needs

a good rest. None of the Saturday night cere-
monial is needed.

D:

_ We welcome each and every one of our fair
visitors. To them the whole campus is turned
over, to do with as they see fit. They are the
masters, and we the entertainers at the celebra-
tion, or is it vice-versa?

1p Sane
STUDENT HONOR

HE honor system has grown to be one
of the most cherished institutions at
Davidson. The honor of each man

who enters Davidson College is the personal

concern of every student, for one man who
fails to live up to the standards of honor set
by the members of the student body, and still
remains as a student, hurts the standard of
the institution immeasurably. Cheating and
stealing are the two evils which are recog-
nized everywhere, and which are handled
primarily by the student g&yernment.

At the recent meeting of the Southern

Federation of College Students held at
Chapel Hill, student government, which is
founded on the honor system and is the
means of keeping student honor on the
highest level, was the chief topic under dis-
cussiorf. Twenty southern colleges and uni-
versities were represented at the convention.
Some of these schools do not have the honor
system, others have student government on-
ly in name, but several, notably Washington
and Lee, North Carolina, N. C. State and
Davidson, have efficiently organized gov-
erning bodies- which the students of ‘each
recognize as the body which upholds the
fixed standard of honor and which they sup-

ort in its decisions. A high tribute to the

onor system in Southern schools as em-
bodied in Carolina honor was paid by a
Carolina student from Boston. He said that
in many Northern schols, where he had seen
conditions, the honor system was merely a
name under which students might cheat with

less danger of detection. On the first re-
view which he attended at Carolina the pro-
fessor wrote the questions on the board and
left the room. His first thought was that
now that the instructor had gone, he could
cheat and get the correct answers. He
reached for his book, and then noticed that
no one else in the room was making any at-
tempt to cheat. The fact struck him, and
from that time on he has been an enthusias-
tic supporter of the system.

Such an incident shows the worth of an
honor system which is an honor system in
fact as well as in name. In certain schools
a differentiation is made between certain
phases of the student government and the
honor system. At Washington and Lee, a
man is honor bound to report all cases of
cheating and stealing which come under
his notice. Drinking and gambling are
handled by the student government but they
are not a part of the honor system. On the
other hand, the law in regard to cheating is

stricter than at other colleges. If it can be
proven that a student sat next to a man
cheating on examinations, knew that he was
cheating, and failed to report him for it, he
is shipped for violating the clause which
states that every student is honor bound to
report all cases of cheating and stealing.
The same stigma attaches to him as to the
man who cheated. Both have broken the
honor code.

The reporting of offenses is a necessary
part of both student government and the
honor system. Student government is
essentially a rule of the students for the
betterment of the students themselves and
for upholding the name of the institution.
The burden of the responsibility is placed
upon every man in college. The law at
Washington and Lee lays emphasis on this

essential point of the system, and places the
ignorance of the wrong to the students on
the same level as the wrong done to the
students by the cheaters. In the end the re-
sult of the two offenses is the same, for both
he who cheats and he who allows another to
cheat lets a man who has broken his word
and robbed the student body of a portion of
its honor remain as a student in good stand-
ing, thereby lowering the value of student
honor at the institution.

Certain colleges during the past year have
either abolished or considered abolishing the
honor system and student government, be-
cause of the failure of the students to sup-
port the officers by reporting violations of
the code. The action of these few colleges
has brought a great deal of criticism on
college students in general. Because in
some schools the students have not been
trained to recognize the supreme value of
honor, the whole college system is attacked
by men who are not intimately acquainted
with college conditions all over the country.

Training is an essential part of the system.
In the incident of the student mentioned
above, his training and experience led him
to think that every one else cheated, and
that cheating was the natural thing to do.
The training, however, of the students in the
same room led them to believe that cheat-
ing was a dishonorable thing, and the evi-
dence of their sincerity led the first student
to change his mind, and realize the true pro-
portions of cheating. Training by example
is one of the most effective means of mold-
ing character.

Honor, though* intangible, is one of the
most vital things in life. Here at Davidson
we class honor as the one requisite of a
Davidson man. No form of dishonesty is
tolerated. A man may cheat and get by
with it; a man May see another cheating and
fail to report him; a man may go through
his whole course, cheating when necessary,
and graduate ;—no system is perfect—but
on the whole few students cheat; few stu-
dents fail to report cheating ; and we regard
the honor system as the heart of Davidson.

The term of this year’s student council has
almost expired. During the past year the
members of the council have worked to
raise student honor to a still higher stand-
ard. They have received the support of the
students in their work—otherwise, it would
have been a failure. Before the end of the
month the new student council will be in-
stalled. They are not a police force—but
are the men to whom the students have
delegated their authority. Into their hands
falls the nominal keeping of Davidson honor,
and we should give them the undivided sup-
port which was accorded to the outgoing
council. :

But in our hands, the hands of the students,
remains the keeping of Davidson honor.
We aré the one§ who will say whether the
honor system will rise or fall. The way in
which we.live up to our oath to report viola-
tions will determine the success or failure
of the officers whom we have appointed. We
have the future of Davidson in our hands.

‘as I see it.

Open Forum

Chaff

THE DAVIDSON SPIRIT

We've all heard the old saying that “An empty
wagon makes the most noise.” When we walk
about over the campus and hear on every side
“That’s the stuff, show your old Davidson Spirit”
what in the world are we talking about? We are
trying to kid ourselves that we have something
that we haven't got. I can imagine a few years back
after an athletic contest a newspaper remark
that ran somthing like this, “The players were
about evenly matched and the victory was in
doubt throughout the game but that feeling they
call the Davidson Spirit instilled in the hearts of
every man, upheld the tired and weary players
and urged them to victory.” I don’t know
whether you have caught what I mean or not
for it’s a hard task to define.

Though it might be defined as a state of con-
sciousness which is characterized by our affective
attitudes, and there is the point which I wish
to put before you, e. g. That the Old Davidson
Spirit is a feeling and not a lot of talk. Accord-
ing to the law of dynamogenesis every conscious
state tends to press itself in some form of motor
activity. If that is so, have we the Davidson
Spirit? We flounder around here and talk, talk,
talk about it and never do anything so we must
lack that particular conscious state which in-
volves action. If we have any semblance of that
Spirit it must be cached in a thick shell way down
in our make-up which we never let out for fear
it will inveigle us into doing something instead
of talking so infernal much.

When the cheer leader calls for a cheer we sit
up there and do some mechanical motion with
our tongues and call it yelling, without life or
pep. We do not put our feelings into it; every
one can just feel an air of the mechanical that
we are yelling just because some one elsé is or
because we think some one will say something
about it if we don’t. That kind of backing is not
What we want. We want a Davidson Spirit that
you can sense with your mind and not something
you are always hearing. I wish I could tell it to
you just as I feel it but it is an impossibility,—I
don’t mean the Spirit for I lack it as much as
any one, but this feeling of shallowness in that
spirit. It has become almost meaningless to most
of us. At Carolina a few years ago one of the
students realized the same situation that I feel,
that the spirit is dead and we are trying to kid
ourselves into believing we have it when in
realty it is only some phantom rooted in our
minds by so much talk. He decided to try and
wake it up some way. One night he dug a grave
cut in front of one of the central walks where
every one would see it. He placed a headstone
at the grave and this inscription was written on
it, Here lies the Carolina Spirit. After the men
had seen it there was a period of depression and
deep thought what to do about it, no one said
much but there was that feeling that there was
a change to be made and it expressed itself in
action. So we need something to wake us from
our peaceful slumbers. I do not propose to dig
a grave to wake us up but to tell you the situation
So let’s remember that “An empty
wagon makes the most noise” and quit so @nuch
meaningless talk and go to feeling our Davidson
Spirit.

E. BONO PUBLICO.

Davidsonian Trophy Cup heard

In the final election to determine the winner of
the Norris Trophy cup, held last Tuesday, G. F.
(Flake) Laird was the winner. The student body
recently expressed their opinion as to the best
athletes in school, and the three highest were
Nappy Davis, Sook Boggs and Laird. Tuesday the
final voice was expressed in electing Laird as the
best of these three.

Laird is only a Sophomore, and to have won
this cup so early in his college life indicates his
ability as an athlete. Flake came to Davidson
with an enviable record behind him, and during
the football season he was used at different times,
but not enough to make his letter. His name is
well known as the one who intercepted a for-
ward pass and ran forty yards for a touchdown in
the V. P. I. game here, and later kicking the goal
that tied the game. On the hardwood court he
easily cinched a position, and recognition was
shown in the awarding of a letter. Flake was
also on the pitching staff of the Freshman team
last year. :

His work this year in the sports has been note-
worthy. On the gridiron he played a line position
and effectively held down his end. This year he
made his letter. He continued his work of the
previous year on the basketball floor and added a
star to his previous honor. Flake was consistent
in his playing and at one time held the honor of
high point man. Coach Monk has so far found
him a valuable man on the pitching staff, and
during the times that’ he has pitched he has
shown up well. His work against Trinity is com-
mendable, for he held this strong nine to five hits
in the six innings that he pitched. It is conceded
that he will win his letter in this sport this year.

Davis and Boggs are .both godd-atsic+<s. Davis
was Captain of this year’s quint, and is Captain- .
Elect of next year’s eleven.. Boggs is Captain-

Elect of the quint for next year.

1

BLANK VERSE
With sincere apologies to the blankety-blank-
blank idiot who writes it.

Spring with emerald tresses flitters in,
On silver wings and golden hair she flies,
Soft blow the blizzard. Red and crimson Carmine and
maroon,
While the phantasmagoric creepy, crawlings crave the
daylight air.
This is Spring
Joyous Spring. Amethyst lambs
And heilotrope blackbirds chirp
From the moaning sycamore or less.
Bright glows the cloudy sky
When thou art nigh. Oh if
I wert with purple wings,
My thoughts would rise on
Clandestine pinions and soar
To depths and heights un-
Known. Zoom! Zoom! The fircflics
Roar and rumble like the wheels
Of carts. The canine’s clarion
Clatter clutters the clear air
With raucous dinny din.
Round and Round goes the wheel
Of life.
Oo La La!
HOW TO WRITE VERSE
First, chose your subject out of any good dic-
tionary or encyclopedia, any subject will do as
well as another for you should not write on the
subject at the head under any consideration. Next,
gather a nice medium-sized collection of ossified
adjectives and sublime thoughts that suit your
mood and mix thoroughly several unintelligible
and nonsensical adjectives or expressions that will
serve the purpose of giving an elevating tone to

| the production. If your pen slips or your. finger

misses a key on the typewriter let it pass as the
reader is not supposed to grasp the complete
thought. Ascertain the number of lines that you
wish to fill and scatter the words throughout the
lines required to fill and add a word or two extra
if necessary to preserve the alignment. Utter a
poetic rapture or two and the job is completed, al-
though the result is not guaranteed, the country
is as yet too civilized.

Oo La La!

OWED —
The tailor
The drug store
The jeweler
The cafe
Blankety-blank-Blank ---------- ?

Oo La La!

A BLANK EXPRESSION

Some folks we know are awful
slow to let the news soak in. They
never do a thing just so, but laugh
a silly grin. Whene’er a fullsome
joke is told, they cackle right out
loud, at the wrong time, brave and
bold, and right before a crowd. No
matter whether cold or hot, these
dumbells all will prance. They’re
always johnny on the spot to show
their ignorance. They seem to say
in every way that they the wise
guys are they take the trouble day
by day to fan the movie star. But
all we ned to keep them treed, is
say, a skirt of grass. In short we
lack some pep and speed.

We need

a block

head

class

Oo La La!

Fair One at Speaking—Oh, Mr. Lewis, do you
really love me with all your heart?
Goat Lewis—Why, sure little one.
Fair One—Well then, why doesn’t your chest
go up and down like the shieks in the movies?
Oo La La!

ISN’T IT NICE

That mirrors don’t wear with use.
That there are no female shieks in Davidson.
That box rent due is no kin to mountain dew.
That 99 44-100*per cent of the D. C. student

body is thinking of going home.
That exams are so near? ???

Oo La La!

MORE BLANKS
(Following is a blank sent out by a prospective
bride-to-be) :
Given name and address.

Weight ~--2..-----.--

How much alimony would you consider in case
of divorce?

Will you have me? -_---------------.
Oo La La!
I use this line
To fill up space
And ’twill fit
No other place.
