8 : THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 27, 1924 eck

Recent advices from the War Depart-| | 5 MINISTERIAL BAND SENDS The

popular quartet rested for the first
ment state that three per cent of the| Dr. John Vander Meulen Freshmen Will Debate OUT TWO BEPUNATTONS! weekne, in some time. However, tt

men enrolled in the second year ad-| ° ows? | e ——- | has planned a most active and attracti
tive
vanced delhi of the R. O. T, C. of class | Will Speak at A Sunday Twice In Near Future Two deputations were fostered by et spring program, Kannapolis and Beth-
C institutions are eligible for appoint- : : —— . : : —— Ministerial Band during the last week- | page are booked for next Sunday. Man-
ment as second lieutenants in the reg-| Will Bring Three Men From Sem- Carolina and Wake Forest to be Met| end. 1. A. Guiton represented the band) ager Martin also announces a prospec-

ular army. These men are to be desig- inary With Him—Currie and 1 at Davidson and Wake Forest at the First Church, Statesville, where! tive tour of all the women’s colleges

nated by the professor of Military Taylor, Davidson Men | Respectively he addressed the various young people’s! within a limited radius.

aoe and Tactics, Upon graduation | — : : See : organizations of that church. | Chairman White “of the “Y” deputa-
hey may, upon application, be commis-| The speaker for “Y” vesper service Sun- At the request of the Carolina Debating J. S. McFall was the band’s delegate’ .. ‘ sen

sioned. In the case of Davidson, only day will be Dr. John M. Vander Meulen, Council, the intercollegiate debate between] +5 the Caldwell Memorial Church, Char-! ate committee has a number of invita-

one man will be eligible. president of the Presbyterian Theological the Freshmen of Davidson and the University | lotte. He reports that his stay at this| 07S before him, He is considering most
Tentative appointment of the candi- Seminary at Louisville, Ky. Dr. Vander; of North Carolina has been postponed from] church was an enjoyable as ell as busy, favorably those from Winston-Salem,

date from Davidson will be made by Meulen needs no introduction to Davidson’ April 11th to April 15th. The Freshman] one. ; Laurinburg, Spencer and Hamlet.

Major Hearn within the next week. This students, particlarly the upper-classmen, as debate between Carolina and Davidson is the —

man will not be chosen merely because he has visited Davidson for the last two first to be scheduled between the first-year

of his grades, but will be chosen because years. Last Commencement he delivered the men of the two schools. At the same time poe =
of his all-round ability in all activities. baccalaureate sermon and the year before he that the Davidson-Carolina Fresh debate, a Grayson Satisfies You Save
conducted the Life Service Campaign. separate team of Freshman debaters from

Three men, students at the Seminary, will Davidson will be pitted against a similar
accompany him—Messrs, Currie, Taylor and team from Wake Forest.
Caldwell. Two of these are Davidson men, The Carolina debate will be staged at Grayson Clothes
| Currie and Taylor. “Buck” Currie, as he Davidson, while the Wake Forest contest |
was better known, was secretary of the col- will be held in Wake Forest. The Fresh- for gentlemen
lege “Y” last year and during his Senior men who will represent Davidson in the two . F
| year was president of the student body. Tay- contests were chosen in preliminary try-outs are designed and tailored
lor is a graduate of the class of '22. : several weeks ago, and since that time the to suit the

They will be here Sunday and Monday, members of the two teams have been hard
speaking to the “Y" Sunday and at chapel at work under the direction of Professors
|Monday. Dr. Vander Meulen will probably! Brown and Dendy.
preach Sunday morning. During the time |The members of the team that will oppose
|that they are here they will be glad to hold Wake Forest are: Erwin, Wharton, and Never before has such
‘conferences with anyone who desires. Williams, L., while the team that meets the excellent clothing been offered at
“Nothing” On this trip, they are visiting not only Carolina debaters will be composed of Stew-

othing’s foo good for my Davidson, but also Maryville College and art, Branch, and Williams, C.

discriminating requirements of

college men.
¢

anything like such low prices!

boy!” | King College. They will arrive some time ; : =
What the “governor” says, Saturday and stay Mali dy Monday. oe ELABORATE PLANS Watch for our showings
‘oes! ei vate se sg in ihe ne his at your college—or
etters, e are looking forward with a ‘ai
A Mellon outfit complete from great deal of joy towards mecting the Da- (Continued from page 1) visit our
head to toe. vidson men,” ological Seminary. The other speakers New York headquarters
Everything college men wear-- at the commencement have not been an-
real college men, not the cartoon | COLLEGE AUTHOLOGY TO BE vounced yet. G YA YS O
variety as pictured in the comic PUBLISHED SHORTLY The tentative program for the exercises
supplements. : rea : ; of commencement is as follows:
F : : Students who wish to submit poems for Sunday, June 1 UNIVERSITY PLACE AT 14th STREET
Suits of attractive Spring, En- possible inclusion in this year’s College An- 11 750 A, M.—Baccalaureate Sermon. NEW YORK, N. Y.
glish and American fabrics -- thology, The Poets of the Future, Volume} 8:00 P, M.—Annual Sermon before Y. M. ;
coats on easy lines, high button, VII, are requested to send their contributions | GaAs

trousers fairly wide. not later than May 15th to Dr. Henry T. Monday, June 2
Schnittkind, care the Stratford Publishing 730 P. M.—Senior Class Feature,
;Company, Boston, Mass. Doctor Schnitt- :00 P, M.—Dramatic Club Presenta-

Grayson Satisfies—You Save

Scotch Mist overcoats -- rain-

proof. Soft hats, caps, heavy

wou

b ford , k kind for a number of years has offered this | tion.
rogue ox 8, unusual neck- Anthology of College Poetry as an induce- | Tuesday, June 3 (eyo)
wear. Everything to give a well- ment to college students, The first prize of-| 9:30 A. M.—Meeting of the Board of CHARLOTTE — Fe ReS VILLE SES KALI
dressed touch to a young man’s }_ fered is $100. There are also several poems Trustees.
et u Prices moderat published from among the best, and in ad-| 12:15 P. M.—Annuat Literary Address. Leaves Charlotte
i) P erate. | | diton those of merit that have no space for | Award of College Medals. _ A. M. A. M. P. M. P. M.
MELLON’S publishing have honorary mention in the} 1:30 P. M.—Annual Alumni Luncheon Peete won cane coe- ----- aan Ht i Henk a
mek : F Untersvilleéves s225 Goce ees Q ' 4 g
= Paper [og CERT CUED (Chehiv JEL) ce eee 8:25 11:25 1:55 6:25
¢ +) W.G. Gallaway, of the local student body, 5:00 P. M.—Faculty Reception, : Mavidsongese.: eo aes 8:30 11:30 2:00 6:30
- }is among the number who received honor-; 8:00 P. M.—Exercises of Literary Soci- peatecse Sous paw Dames See a we a gue
: lable mention in the last volume. There was | eties. routman 9: : : :
S Ino volume published last year on account of | Award of Society Diplomas, Tro- Seta ey ‘i ree) oie ie)
e e ithe sickness of Doctor Schnittkind, and the | phies and Medals. s Statesville
|one for last year and this year will be com-| 10:30 P. M.—Senior Class Feature. ; A. M. A. M. P. M. P. M.
CA F E 6 E R I A S ibined. Many of the old poets sent their first Wednesday, June 4 py Maul Sone pace een Sane aie 4 ny ae per
Ge ihe He the eae! ee before their | 10:30 SiGe Contest. Mooresville -- ame eae 8:45 19 x40 2:45 5:10
9 | ability to write was known. | 3 3 ses. avidsonsces ofes Ll. esse { ; ; :
a Ce Cooking and } | Lowering of Class Flag. Cornelis 25. 05 cane case 9:05 11:00 3:05 5:30
ourteous Service LOST AND FOUND | ea ana Huntersville -. ---. -... __-- 9:20 11:20 3:20 5:45
Is Our Specialty Mrs. Olin White entertained the West Charlotte ---. --. F. -F Smee reece G rae Dri 4:00 6:30
aT ra | Virgini ni or Fur ther nrormation See Uriver
Charlotte Winston-Salem | | !OST—One Koywoodie pipe, large bowl, | eee Clb: ee Sl Rig tater
Asheville and Greenville, S. C. | and rough finish, Reward. Hippo Houck, | MUA SRS oe

301 Watts. |
|

5 LOST—O Libre ¢ N Hell
TUXEDOS - FULL DRESS SUITS T—One ibrary Book, Nobody's

Man,” by Oppenheim. Please return to|
—FOR RENT — Library or to Hippo Houck, 301 Watts. — |

Masquerade Costumes - Party LOST—One Education ook, Introduc- ss ‘ § ‘+
Favors © Novelties - State your eas Hit eat Meee re ce: What a whale of a difference

wants. Mail orders given Please return to “Hippo” Houck, 301 e fe 49
r. x i
prompt attention. Wats just a lew cents make!
LOST—Tennyson's Poems and English 3
Southern Awalng &DecoratiagCe. Loose Leaf Notebook, Please return to \
CHARLOTTE, N. C. Chong Mcllwaine, 14 Georgia.

Miss Nancy Grey came home, Wednes-
day to spend her spring vacation with

We Invite Your her parents, Dr. and Mrs. Grey.

The friends of Mrs, Paisley are glad

Business she has recovered from her illness.

CALENDAR

LARGE OR SMALL

Thursday, March 27—
7 :30 p. m—Eu and Phi Literary So-
cieties.
Friday and Saturday, March 28-29—

7:30 p. m—Movies: The Hunch-
INDEP ENDENCE back of Neere Decne adeiistion,
50 cents.
TRUST CO. : _ Sunday, March 30—

10:00 a. m—Volunteer Band.
1:15 p. m.—C. E. Training Class.

“ON THE SQUARE” 2:00 p. m.—Ministerial Band.
6:00 p. m—Y. M. C. A. Vesper all the difference
Service. oa I J fi °
epee Tuesday, April 1 — Just aa =

blend in cigarette history.

7:30 p. m.—Pandeinic and Metro-
philian Literary Societies.
Wednesday, April 2—
7 30 p. m—Prayer meeting.

———
:
Z
re)

