6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 8, 1924

Red and Black Sports

New C.E.T.C. Officers
Are Installed By Little

Wildkittens End Season
By Defeating Trinity

On Road Trip, Yearlings Lose Three
and Win One

The Wildkitten tossers split the last
two games of the season, winning from
Trinity 6-2 on April 29th and losing, 8-3
to N. C. State the 28th. Against Trin-
ity’s yearlings the Freshmen hit their
stride and wiped out the stain of a
lengthy losing streak. This win made
the tally one out of three of the games
played on the road trip.

N. C. State Game
In a game marked by heavy hitting
and loose fielding the N. C. State Fresh
defeated Davidson’s first

year nine,
score 8-3. The hard baked field and
numerous pebbles stretched a number

of bingles for extra bases.

* Julian of State was touched for eight
hits one of them a home run. He work-
ed effectively in the pinches and held the
Kittens to three runs. In the meantime
his teammates pounded Templeton for
13 hits. Neece lead the attack with three
hits in four trips up two of the times
sending the pill out for a homer.

The Davidson Fresh played fair ball
in the field in spite of the bad surface.
Inability to hit as hard and as often as
the State Fresh accounted for their de-
feat. Joe McConnell featured in the
ninth frame by meeting one of Julian’s
benders for four bases.

The summary:

RHE
ooi—3 8
11x—8 13 I

Davidson Fresh  - 101 000
N. C. State Fresh _310 o21

Trinity Game

At Trinity on the 29th the Freshmen
backed Hampton with steady fielding and
with his pitching air-tight ball in the
pinches carried the ball game away with
6-2.

The Kittens grouped their hits and
pushed runs over at will. Costly errors,
five of them, on the part of the Meth-
odists helped the Red and Black score to
mount. Hampton's effective twirling
featured the Davidson defense while
Kelly Johnson lead their attack. Johnson
got three hits in five trips to the plate.
For Trinity Tuttle scored the Red
Devil's two tallies with two clean hits,
one a two bagger which he laid up
against the fence. Waggoner also did
good work with willow but his thre hits
out of four times up failed to add to
the Methodist’s side of the score.

The summary:

2

RHE
Trinity Fresh —~____ 010 100 o00—2 5 4
Davidson Fresh -.-102 000 o012—6 10 4
SOPHS VANQUISHED IN INTER-

CLASS SERIES MONDAY

The Fresh-Soph game last Monday af-
ternoon resulted in the defeat of the
second year men. This was the first of
the annual inter-class series. Final score
stood § to 2.

The scoring began when Kiser singled,
Davis sacrificed and Kiser reached
second. Then Woodham sent a sizzler
through short and brought in Kiser for
the first run of the afternoon. During
the sixth inning the Fresh ran a merry-
go-round, with the result that the score
stood 5 to o when the Sophs buckled
down and sent them to field again.

For a time neither side was able to do
anything in the way of reaching the
home plate. The few hits that were
made were not gotten at opportune
moments. In the last of the ninth the
Sophs rallied and scored their two runs.

The teams were more evenly matched
than the score indicates, Only two er-
rors were charged to the Sophs and one
to the Fresh. The+Fresh got nine hits
and the Sophs got four.

Batteries were :Freshmen, Kiser

Templeton; Sophomores, Oden
Hovis.

and
and

THETA UPSILON OMEGA

(Continued from page 1)
dle States, lawyers, writers, architects, phy-
Sicians, professors, and almost every other
representative professional line.

At the installation services there were
Present a group of the alumni of the local
chapter, J.-P. Booth, A. S, Axuetson, R. G.
White, others to come for initiation at later
dates. ‘ The official contracted name of this
new organization is Theta U.

|

U

Niches in the Wildcat |

Former Field Secretary Carries Out
Novel Program in Sunday

more than a boy in size he made a record)
that can never be forgotten. In_ his
Freshman year he fought for a place on)
the football team, and played in several |
games. After that he played regularly |
at quarterback, and was in almost every
game. He was very light, weighing only |
about 130, but in almost every account of
the games there would be such com-)
ments as these: “Keesler was David-
soms most consistent ground gainer;”
“The feature of the game was Keesler's
steady, wise generalship and consistent
gains.” He was quarterback and played
in every game of the season of 10916
when only three games were lost. He
starred especially gn the A. & M. game
of that fall when he gained more than
200 yards from scrimmage and in
turning punts. He was equally good in
line plunging, end running, throwing)
passes or punting.

Sam also played baseball every season,
but he did,not make his letter until his
Senior year. He was catcher that year
and played just as well behind the bat as
he had done in calling signals for :the
football eleven. Above everything else
he was speedy and nervy. In one game
he had a finger broken, but insisted on

catching the rest of the game as soon as |

by the president, Mr. Lawrence Little,
who is now president of the Christian
Endeavor Union for this district, con-
ducted a short devotional service. f
then asked both the retiring officers,
President W. W. Purdy, Vice-President
A. H. Hollingsworth, Secretary A. Y.
Bowie, Treasurer B. U. Ratchford, and
the incoming officers, President W. E.
Milton, Vice-President A. H. Hollings-
worth, Secretary D. M. Calhoun, Treas-
urer W. T. Covington, to stand before
the class, and in a brief talk he express-
ed the class’s appreciation of the efficient
service rendered by the old officers and
charged the new ones to do even greater

the class he asked for their co-operation
in the administration for next year, which
was immediately pledged by all present.

Mr. Little carried out the remainder of
the program in the form of a Christian
Endeavor baseball game. The pitcher

re-

about Christian Endeavor.
was unique and interesting.

The game

Literary Societies

Along with many others, Sam left col-|
lege early in the spring of his Senior |
year and went to the officers training
camp when war was declared. He re-
ceived his commission at the end of the,
camp, and in 1918 went to France as a
pilot in.the aviation corps. He was as
consistent and as fearless in his attacks)
on the Germans as he had been on his |
enemies on the gridiron. In October eny i |
1918 his plane was shot down behind the is to be first critic and Claude McIntosh
German lines and he received serious | Second critic, W. T. Covington and T.|
wounds from which he died a few days | H. SEIS eles chosen first and second
later. He was posthumously awarded) SUPETVisors, respectively, i K
the Distinguished Service Cross. [oe aucr Mieeuina was) pronded ON BY

Sam Keesler was an athlete that anvils M. Trawick in the place of president
college could well be proud of and All McBryde who was absent with the track
man geconditomone: squad at the State meet.

Fresh Athletes Receive
Recognition of Ability

Awarded Monogram in Three Sports
—First Time in History

ian Society, last Tuesday night was taken
over entirely by the election of officers
for the first term of the coming year.

D. B. Wharton was chosen to lead the}
society during that period. In the other)
elections R. B. Parker was made vice-|
president; D. H, Stewart, ‘secretary; and}
EK. T. Pullen, treasurer. W. M. Gracey |

Pandeinic Literary Society

The query for debates was, Resolved:
That the annexation of Cuba to the
United States would be to the best in-
|terest of Cuba. Eddington, Regen and
Yeager successfully argued the affirma-
tive and received the unanimous decision
|of the judges against the negative sup-
jported by McFall, McIlwaine and

This year for the first time in the his- Thompson, Thediscussion was a lively
tory of Davidson the members of the} one and showed excellent preparation on
Freshman athletic teams are awarded a|the part of both teams.

monogram. It is a four inch D. C. et Okey Allison was on the program for
black felt. At a recent meeting of the

{beak} : }eurrent events and Hugh Currie for

Athletic Council these monograms were) oration, Currie gave an interesting talk

awarded to the following freshmen: on Rome’ and the Vatican and its Popes
In football: C. G, Allen, E. H. Bo-

in particilar.
hannon, Wi-A, Christian, L. C. R. Deck,
H. G. Goodykoontz, W. O. Green, A. J.
Hewlett, F. E. Hudgins, W. K. Johnston,
W. H. Leggette, R. L. Lincoln, J. H. Mc-
Connell, R. L. Mitchell, H. O. Sapp, J. F.
Pinkney, Z. Varnedoe.

In basketball: T. F. Anderson, R. J.
Faucette, A. J. Hewlette, F. E, Hudgins,
H. O. Sapp, J. A. Simpson, Jr.

In baseball, the Athletic Council has
not as yet awarded the monograms but
Coach Rawson has recommened the fol-
lowing tossers: C..G. A..l.len, T. Davis,
R. R. Templeton, R. R. Glenn, P. A.
Hampton, W. K. Johnston, W. B. Kiser,
J. H. McConnell, H. O, Sapp, W. R.
Sparrow, K. V. Woodham.

Phi Society
At the meeting of the Philanthropic
| Euterary Society last Thursday evening,

May the first, the election of officers for
the fall term was held in place of the
regular meeting.

The officers elected were: J. E. Hols-
hauser, president;; B. U. Ratchford, vice-
president; A. B. Williford, secretary; J.
C. Barrington, treasurer; J. R. Gudger,
first critic, and H. Y. Alexander, second
critic.

After the election of officers several
other matters of business were brought
before the society and attended to.

The regular bill for discussion was
postponed until the next meeting, at
which time there will be two bills -dis-
‘lcussed. First: Resolved: That the United
States should annex Cuba‘as a@ territory.
Second. Resolved: That the Gentleman's
agreement with Japan should be made a
lav.”

OPERATIC AIRS HEARD

(Continued from page 1)
Sizoo, and Messrs. Gibson, Neal and Stokes.
The best encores given were “Swing Low,
Sweet Chariot,” slightly rearranged, and
“Love’s Old Sweet Song.”

The audience was not disappointed in its
expectation to witness a worthy concert on
this night, because it is certain that this was
the crowning number of the series of con-
certs given during the year both by other
organizations as well as the Carolinas Con-
cert Club.

The appearance of the club upon the hill
‘was/managed by Ted Jones, who, as president
of the Glee Club, became associated with
Mrs. Baker while she was director of the

DAVIDSON PARTIES PLAN

(Continued from page 1)
in Greensboro. They will tour France,
Switzerland and other European countries.
A three weeks’ stay in England is planned.
The trip across the channel is to be made by
aeroplane or steamer, each member of the

sires. On the 23rd of August they will sail
from Southampton on the United States
liner Republic, arriving at New York about

Hall of Fame | Meeting
| The installation of officers for the
SAMUEL R. KEESLER, 17 !coming year composed the greater part
D** Football D Baseball | of the program of the Christian Endeav-
Sam Keesler came to Davidson from |, ‘Training Class last Sunday. After
Greenwood, Miss. and though never the usual opening exercises conducted |

He|

things. Turning to the other members of |

instead of throwing balls threw questions |

it had been bandaged. |

Metrophilian Society
The weekly meeting of the Metrophil- |

party choosing the way he or she mest-de-|:

| (Continued from page 2)

| TIMELY HITS OF BLUE Bot a

AION) <6: duscescccsusace CO Ongele ale
AMLOPU ah GC cerwsceescus Gale 2 20 le)
LAITG; Dp uascusccbaueunce “il Gy wm
ERIMDrOusN Ol canscauaaw (jb abot ) @
OUSHeC; 1D) couesueaeanse 6 1211 0 0

POtal  Secssae cu sceuen9e 72181599168
PAG; AB RH POA E}
Hooaday);: 20 <scwcecceccc (vega) opts Les Pay fa
MUNtGr Ol suuucouuedcuun 627256470: 20
Warner, s8 u-s-----..+.- (J) ty dh ats) A
IMOOLG; iy 0 euuaceabuan 492 42 0
PMGNei el bh waccocceonenes 6 0020 0 0
NOttOny ett: cose wecuecee 60010 0
[eee UG) A) ee H @ W it ab
pHaninan) p os 2252222 Sce yeah sb yA)
east Hisense eeeee oes 401300

Total eos ses see 48 4 7 3518 3

| Summary—Struck out: by Laird 20, by
| Hannah 4; base on balls: off Laird 2, off
| Hannah 2; two-base hits: Moore, R., Bou-
| shee, Marrow and Simpson; three-base hits:

| Vance, Boushee.
Furman
The Furman nine copped a 12-inning con-

test from the Wildcats last Tuesday, in Ches- |

ter, S. C. The first four innings were all
for the South Carolina team, Then the Wild-
cats drew, their blood and the game was all
| for Davidson until the ninth, when Furman
tied the score and then after two more score-
less innings connected with Boushee

for
| three runs in the twelfth.

| McPherson started the game in the box
for Davidson and held the Purple Hurricane
to one run cach in the first and third frames.
| In the fourth they drove in two more. Bou-
| shee then entered the box and held the Fur-
man boys scoreless for four innings. The
Wildcats took advantage of this time to gain
a one-point lead over Furman, which they
held until the ninth, when a Furman man

scored on a wild peg home from short and

prolonged the game for three more innings.

Davidson gave herself two chances to score
in the tenth and eleventh, but the hits neces-
sary to drive the men in were not forthcom-
ing. Furman then took things into her hands
and did what the Wildcats were unable to
do, when the Furman batters drove. three
men across the plate in the twelfth, making
the game theirs 8 to 5.

OLD CUSTOM PERPETUATED
IN VISITS TO OUTPOSTS

Sunday School work has long been an
important part of the activities of
Davidson men who are preparing for the
ministry. Work was begun at Shearer
Chapel in the early nineties, by Dr.
Hammond, who is the incoming pro-
fessor of Bible at Flora McDonald.

The Mill Chapel has been faithfully
supported by students.

Only during the last year or so the
county convict camp has been established
near school. Now, men go from David-
son each Sunday and work among the
prisoners.

There are several budding stations at
each of which some student is trying to
form the nucleus of a new ehurch, The
most notable of these is that at Oak
Grove S. E. Hager is in charge.

LUXENBERG CLOTHES
Talk No. 3

CONFIDENCE

Certain things we tell every cus-
tomer BEFORE he makes his first
purchase.

1. That the woolens we use are the
sort that you will find in suits
priced $20 higher elsewhere.

. That we guarantee ‘well made”
clothes (not custom made).

That without complete satisfac-
tion no sale is concluded. e
will refund the purchase price if
you are not entirely satisfied.

Fromthemanycustomers we have
made, it would seem that the
LUXENBERG label plus money
in his pocket is a sufficient induce-
ment for any man to buy clothes

in the LUXENBERG way.

(No. 3 of a series of talks with
tips for men who dress well.)

To take care of our growingtrade, we have
been compelled to open branches at

863 Broad Street
Newark, N. J.

Home store, as always,

841 Broadway
New York City

NAT LUXENBERG & BROS.

CENTRAL

»

Dyeing

Largest
8 E. Trade St.

and
MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB

Dry Cleaning
Shoe Shine In Connection

Oldest

HAT SHOP

Pressing

Best
CHARLOTTE

$250 in Prizes

Forthe best sentenceof ten
words or less on the value
oftheWilliams Hinge-Cap,
we offer the following
prises: 1st prize, $100; 2nd
prize, $50; two 3rd prizes,
$25 each: two 4th prizes,$10
each; six 5th prizes,$5 each.

Any undergraduate or
graduate student is eligi-

men like!
ble. Iftwo or more persons

deemed worthy of prizes,
the full amount of the prize
will be awarded to each.
Contest closes at mid-
night March 14, 1924. Win-
ners wilt be announced
as soon thereafter as
possible. Submit any
number of slogans but
write on one side of paper
only, putting name, ad-
dress, college and class at
top of each sheet. Address
letters to Contest Editor,
~ Pose at HAH * CH.
Glastonbury, Conn.

“It’s on even when it’s off”

(Does this slogan about the Hinge-Cap deserve a prize?
If not, what better one can you suggest? Read our offer)

ILLIAMS is a wonderfully

popular shaving cream. Here’s
why:— It’s heavier, faster - working
lather, the way it lubricates the path
of the razor and eliminates painful fric-
tion, the soothing ingredient which
keeps the skin so smooth and cool even
in daily shaving—these are qualities

no artificial coloring. With the new
Hinge-Cap, Williams is winning more
friends than ever before. See if you
ever used a shaving cream as good.

Willi

They also like its purity—

a

Davidson Glee Club, during this~year. , the 28th of August.

The J. B. Williams Co., Glastonbury, Conn.
