PERE}

4 ;

THE DAVIDSONIAN, ‘SEPTEMBER 18, 1924

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE...--.---------Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN---------- Business Manager

Editorial Staff

Kditor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor

Soccnccecdowe- Managing
_-Assistant Managing
_Assistant Managing
Peanut. Parcher
.--Associate
-Associate Editor
-Associate Editor
_..------Alumni Editor

. LL. SHAW
G. D. ROGERS.

Business Staff

A THOMESON Sd dcccensucouses _--Circulation Manager
ious os Subscription Manager

-Service Manager

a CG. McSWAIN
. M. GARRISON

HLA VIN CHeptreuscneve titege cl eveeenta uss aatescoece Typist
REPORTERS’ CLUB
L. B. GIBBS, Pres. R. H. McILWAINE
D. G. WILSON, V.-Pres. G. McMILLAN
A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas. ; FE. M
J; M. APPLEBY 2. P, O'CONNOR
. M, AUSTIN R. B. PARKER
We ie BRANCH B. Y. PITTS

V COVINGTON B. U. RATCHFORD
J. M. GARRISON K. REGE
AH. HOLLINGSWORTH

i, K, REGE

J. B. THOMPSON
F, 16 1. D. WHARTON
W. H. LYNCH

W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

WELCOME, FRESH!

Catch that speaking habit—‘Hello Fel-
lows!”

D

Just a “hello” goes a long way toward
keeping up the old Wildcat spirit.
D
The stove league at Davidson started its
regular fall session with a greater number of
entries than ever before.

D

Over six hundred have already started in
on three months of intensive work doping
out the winners in grid exhibitions all over
the country.

D
Chief interest, however, is centered on
the fighting Wildcats under Coaches Young-
er and Tilson, The “thin red line” is causing
a lot of speculation these days, both at home
and in rival camps.

D:

Many changes greeted the returning Wild-
cats this fall. Work on Chambers was well
under way, the new hotel was nearly com-
pleted, the post office administration had
changed, the streets had been widened, and

improvements had been made, both on and
off the campus.

D

_ Amid these many changes—whether for |
better or for worse—one thing remained the |

same—the mud.
D

Mud met the six hundred but they faced
it as bravely as that other six hundred whom
Tennyson made famous faced Russian guns
at Balakava. Like the other six hundred
they were swallowed up—not by Russians
but by Davidson mud.

D

Walk a step

Slip a step

Walk a step forward

On’ through the Davidson mud
*‘Splashed the six hundred - = . +
Their’s not to cuss or frown

On through the slush and the mud
-Splashed the six hundred.

=

WALKS

: UD has been and is the most prom-
inent feature of the Davidson land-
scape after every rain. The walks
if they can be dignified by such a name are
seas of mud. Year in and year out the ery
for cement or hard-surfaced walks has been
raised but has been passed unnoticed,

This year the mud is with us once more
and the walks are seemingly as far away as
ever, The argument has been advanced that
cement walks would detract’ from the
beauty of the campus. The present system
is certainly far from beautiful.

For the preservation ofthe campus, cement
walks would be a great aid. At present, af-
ter a rain, the boys walk along the edge of
the walks, wearing down the grass in many
places. This gives a ragged air to the whole
campus, which cement walks would remedy.
With cement walks there would be no ten-
dency to walk on the grass along the sides.
Davidson boys are often accused of being
slouchy and careless in their dress: The
mud may be blamed for a large part of this.
It ruins the appearance of both shoes and
suits and gives employment to the cleaning
companies of neighboring towns, If solid
walks could be laid to the classrooms. it
would alleviate both the ruining of clothes
and the tracking of mud over the dormi-
tories,

Walks will aid in keeping a “campus beau-
tiful,” in preserving the buildings, and in
bettering the appearance of the student
hody. :

D

PRESIDENT MARTIN

Dr. W. J. Martin, the man at the helm of
Davidson College, lies critically ill in a Char-

| lotte hospital, To him every Davidson man
owes more than he knows. He is in a large

land the imprint of his personality is in-

|

Open Forum

 Chatt

(This department is conducted by the editor, for the
benefit of those members of the student body, or faculty,
who desire to express their opinions on any matter which
might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of
the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted
for the betterment of campus life, and that the students
will express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted
discussion on campus problems. The names.of the writers
will be withheld from publication, if such is the desire of
the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor
of The Davidsonian by 7:00 p. m. Monday.)

FIGHT

Over at Wake Forest now it is a serious offense
for a rooter to yell “Hold ‘em, team” however
the enemy may be to the old Gold and
Black goal line. “Fight, fight, fight or say noth-
ing,” is Garrity’s order.

This is the old spirit—the only kind—that will

close

| give the Wildcats the season for which we all

| measure responsible for what Davidson is |
|

delibly stamped on her future.,

For twelve years Doctor Martin has guid-

ed the destines of the college. Under his
| administration the enrollment has more than
doubled and her endowment has beenlargely
increased, The Chambers and Watts fires
dealt big blows to the college during this
period but under his control it recovered and
the Million Dollar Campaign and Six Flun-
dred Thousand Dollar Campaign for the re-
building of Chambers attest to his efficiency.

While returning from a trip to Europe
with his wife and daughter he suffered a
severe attack of bronchil-pneumonia and im-
mediately upon landing in New York was
rushed to a sanatorium in Charlotte where
he has been for the last fortnight. His life
hung in the balance for several days but the
tide turned and he is now much better.

The student body wishes him a speedy
recovery and hopes that he may soon be
able to resume his place at the head of the
institution for which he has done so much,

D
BACK THE TEAM

In the last few years at Davidson there
has been a growing tendency to let the
Freshmen do the cheering for the whole
student body. Some of the upperclassmen
; seem to feel that when they force the Fresh-
men to yell for the team their work as Wild-
cat supporter is done and they may sit down
apathetically and watch the contest.

In former years the student body sat to-
gether and rooted,, yelled, and cheered for
the fighting Wildcats. Now the tendency is
for upperclassmen to order the Freshmen to
sit together and then to scatter and settle
themselves wherever they can be most com-
| fortable.

Before, when a pep meeting was called

joined in the cheering. Now, pep meetings
are called specially for the Fresh and the
_ upperclassmen feel that they have enough
pep without exerting their lungs. In the old
days a pep meeting was a time when every-
one cut loose with everything they had and
had a rolicking good time. : :
While this is only a tendency, it is well to
recognize its existence and combat it in
every way. Have we got that old Wildcat
spirit? Are we backing our team to the
limit? The Freshmen comprise nearly half
| the student body but will the upperclassmen
who have lived together—all of them for
one and some for two or three years—let
them furnish half the noise at the game.
We believe that the upperclassmen can
make just as much noise as the Freshmen
tard then gusta tittle bit more for old time’s
sake. The love of Davidson grows on a
man the longer he stays in college and that
| is what it takes to make the old Wildcat

spirit. Let’s all back Monk Younger and
the fighting Wildcats. :

the upperclassmen were all there in person |
| to see that Freshmen came, and everyone |

desperately hope. Last year we fans seemed to
be satisfied if we could just hold a heavy oppo-
nent. Naturally, “Hold ’em was all we did.

The fighting spirit among the rooters—the kind
that does not wish to hold but to beat the enemy
—is what we students must get into our system at
once,

Some new yells would not hurt. Something
must shake us out of the hopeless ‘resignation
which many of the most loyal cats have assumed,
We know this is the truth, however bitter it
may be. :

What team can fight when its supporters are
apathetic? Nothing can give that high-toned
morale essential to a winning college team, ex-
cept the enthusiastic never-say-die type of pep
in its rooter.

Let’s not be satisfied with just beating. Elon.
Let’s smother them. Then we will beat Car-
olina.

Our team and our coach
But to win they must be
we, their backers, have a
them.

Let's leave off adverse criticism and any resigna-
tion to a fate which we kindly conceive for our-
Let’s be like the Wildcats of '17.

Let's be the never-say-die, true-blue type.

R.

are worthy of our.best.
absolutely certain that
world of confidence in

selves.

P.

FRESHMEN REGULATIONS

1. Freshmen must know college songs and
yells by tenth day after ‘school opens.

2. Freshmen must wear at.all times, with-

in limits of Davidson, the caps pre-

scribed for them by the Court of Con-

trol.

Freshmen shall not smoke in any of the

college buildings except dormitories.

4. Freshmen shall not walk on the grass

of Davidson Campus.

Freshmen shall not enter Post Office

after 8:10 a. m., until last bell for Chapel

at 8:35 a. m.

Freshmen must pass immediately into

chapel at beginning of first bell at 8:30,

and take their seats.

Freshmen must wear at all times, on

upper left hand pocket of blouse or

shirt of R. O. T. C. uniform, an insignia

prescribed for them by the Court of

Control.

8 Freshmen shall remain in Chapel seats
until all Upperclassmen have cleared
the room.

9. Freshmen shall show respect to Upper-
classmen at all times.
10. Each Freshman shall have his own pla-

card, with his name inserted in the
proper place hanging in a conspicious
place in his room, throughout the year.
COURT OF CONTROL,
W. C. Ramsey, Judge.

FAITHFUL SERVICE

During the past summer many noted sons
of Davidson have finished lives of faithful
service. Among these are such noted min-
isters as Rev. J. Y. Fair, ’72, and Rev. F. J.
Brooke, ’77.

In the educational field, especially, the loss
was keenly felt. Drs. D, H. Hill, 80, W. A.
Withers, ’83, and C, Alphonso Smith, ’84,
left gaps in southern educational ranks
which will be hard to fill.. Each of them has
left his mark on the lives of students in the
South-Atlantic states.

For several years Dr. Hill was president
of N.C. State College and one of the South’s
leading educators. Doctor Withers was one
of the best known department heads at the
University of North Carolina.

Probably the best known of these educa-
tors is Dr, C. Alphonso Smith, who was at
the time of his death the head of the English
department at Annapolis. He had formerly
been professor of English at the University
of Virginia. He is best known as O. Henry’s
biographer and the editor of his stories. ,

It is such menvas these who have upheld
Davidson’s reputation throughout the South.
To them Davidson owes her greatness and
with their friends the sorrows for her de-
parted sons.

THE RATS ARE COMING

Without undue elation
And utmost consternation,
We note with dread fear and great alarm
That the Rats have come to peeve us
And try their best to grieve us,
While we wait for them with welcome, open arms.

(Crtorvus)

A piper—a_ piper—we surely need a_ piper,
To lure away the rodents from our doors.
Like Hamlin of old, we shiver in the cold
While the rats cavort like monkeys on the floors.
Just anything to draw ’em,
A wildcat's claw to claw ’em;
It makes no difference how we get their goat.
For they’ve proved a pest already,
And our nerves are quite unsteady,
For the Rats have got their bosses by the throat.

(The above song has been sponsored by the
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
and registered under the Pure Food and Drug
Acts of June 30, 1906. It has been written espe-
cially to be sizzled on your saxaphone or moti-

It

very fine bass drum solo, with piccolo accom -

vated on your mouth organ. also makes a

painment.)

OUR LAZY LIST

The Bird who, while he was crossing the ocean,
told the steward to throw all his meals over-
board as he was going to be sea sick anyway,

But that’s nothing to compare with the Fresh-
man up here who uses the wart on his neck for
a collar-button.

Fresh Snigglefritz of Bear Hollow, N. C., was
somewhat disappointed when he reached David-
son. Someone had told him of the wonderful
polo fields that were at most of the colleges.
When he looked all over Davidson and found no
such field he lamented aloud and said, “I have al-
ways wanted to see the beautiful fields of waving
polo, but this darned school doesn’t seem to have
one.”

D
LITTLE MAXIM SILENCERS

Just because a fellow’s clothes looked like they
have been slept in is no sign that he has been in
class.

Many a June husband has forgotten how to
drive a car with one hand.

Dumbbells put color on a fellow’s cheeks two
ways: he can swing them several months and
get a natural color, and he can have a date with
one and get the color there in ten minutes.

Fresh—Do y’ know Minerva?
Soph—Minerva who?
Fresh—’M’nervous wreck.

OUR NEW BOYS

The initial number ofthe Davidsonian would be
quite incomplete without a brief survey of what
the college has shoved off on the upper classes,
namely, the wild-eyed, gawky and unsophisticated
looking bunch of yearlings that are leniently

called Freshmen. Not that we have anything

against the wearers of the green as a body, but
their appalling ignorance and general dumbbell-
ishness are worthy of more than a passing glance.

The lure of a four years’ soft snap in this
venerable institution has corralled exactly 257
new boys into our fold and as far as it is known,
the casualties have been very light indeed. Other
than a few more than the usual number having
bought a winter's supply of radiator tickets and
admissions to the rifle range, they have laid off
gold bricks and such hokums. The paddle has
not been applied and very few breakfasts have
been eaten on the mantlepieces reserved by the
hash foundries for the army of the ignorant.
Their ranks have not as yet been thinned by the
ranks of report cards and the flunkers who are
hired by the college to weed out the unpromising
thorns from this garden or roses. Before them
lay the untracked wliderness of the raging seas
of education's desert shores, behind them lay the
gray Azores of high schools and mothers’ apron
strings. Not being poetically inclined, the “sail
on, and on,” of the bard does not fit our false
teeth and all we can say is “lay in there and
fight ’em big boy.”

Our earnest plea is that a beneficent providence
may peel a few of the outside layers of verdue
fzom.their darling little selves before the big, bad
Sophomers take the matter in their own hands
and feet, with a lust for blood in their eyes. May
the arrival of the spring find a bunch of young
gentlemen who have been completely subdued
by recitations, profs, Sophomores and such evils.
