THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 15, 1924

Earliest Days of Davidson’s Baseball
History Are Pictured By Former Player —

Away back in the dim ages of baseball,
Davidson had a team that played just as fast
ball as any team in the state at the present
time. In those days the great national game
was undergoing a transition from the popu-
lar game of townball, and the game today is
laid along the lines that were followed when
each side had as many players as it chose
and everyone participated. Such was the
information of Dr. E. M. Summerell, who
graduated from Davidson back in '76, and
who now lives near Salisbury.

At a recent ball game played on the loca!
diamond, a member of the Davidsonian stait
noticed an elderly gentleman sitting on the
top row of the bleachers who seemed to be
keenly interested in the game that was being
played by the two contending teams. Seeing
a close decision made at the home plate, he
leaned over and asked the younger man about
the ruling of the play.

The member of the Davidsonian staff,
wishing to be polite, drifted into a discus-
sion of rules that every one that has ever
seen a ball game knows well. He even went
so far as to say that the ball had to go be-
tween the first and third bases before it was
a hit. The old gentleman looked at him and
laughed, “Why, bless you, son, I played
baseball back here 50 years ago, and havent
forgotten all about the game.”

Both of them laughed at this remark, and
Dr. Summerell, for such it proved to he,
launched into an interesting discussion of the
grand old game as he knew it. He came to
Davidson in 1872, when the college, just re-
covering from the ravages of the war, had
only a few students and a small corps of in-
structors. Where Richardson field is today
was only a pine grove at that time and the
athletic activities were conducted on a small
lot north of the campus. Dr. Summerell
said that he had. a fondness for town ball
and that when a baseball club was organized
here the spring after he came, he joined and
made the team. He played every position
on the field, including pitcher, catcher, and
infielder. A pitcher was rightly named in
those times, as a rule was in effect that the
ball had to be “pitched” and not thrown. The
catcher stood some distance behind the bat-
‘ter and caught the ball on the first bounce.
It is doubtful today whether some of tie
best players would care to stop the balls
that they threw in that time, at least with
the same kind of receiving apparatus. Noth-
ing but the bare hands was used, and it is
said that very few errors were made by the
fielders although the balls were hurled
around the lot with a bullet-like speed and
a deadly accuracy. Home-made bats of the
good hickory variety were the instruments
used and the balls were made the same as
those used today. No established rules had
been formulated and a new brand of rules
were made at every contest, each contending
team trying to fashion the regulations to suit
themselves.

A game was fixed up between the local
team of young sports and a club at Concord
for a nice spring day. The other team came,
saw, and conquered, leaving with something
like a 39 to 2 victory in their possession. Ac--
cording to Dr. Summerell, no intercollegiaté
games were played until a later date, the
sport being entirely novel, and had not 2ven
gained a foothold at most of the state insti-
tutions.

Dr. Summerell, in spite of his age ci over,
70 years, is an active practitioner of medicine
and a successful farmer. He told of a re-
union of the members of his class in 1916,
in which only about a dozen attended. He
knows of only one more member of the
same class who is living today, but he hopes
to have a little private reunion of the class
members on the fiftieth anniversary of the
class. Dr. Summerell is still a loyal alum-
nus and is for everything pertaining to the
advancement of the college. ’

COMMENCEMENT ISSUE OF
MAGAZINE OFF PRESS SOON

The commencement issue of the David-
son College Magazine according to W. F.
Galloway, retiring Editor-in-Chief, will
be slightly shorter than usyal on ac-
count of lack of financial support. This
is the last issue that will be put out by
the 1924 staff.

Among the articles featuring the final
number will be an impressionistic Essay
on Thought, by John B. Gallant, another
short story by Warren C. Ogdeti and sevy-
eral poems by James Henry Caligan.

The magazine wil be off the press
within a week or more.

Mr. E. L. Buie, of Red Springs, spent
several days last week with Dr. and
Mrs. J. M. Douglas.

ramble|
ushes

Dear Bill:

It shore is a tarnation rush up here at this |
place. I’ve been thinking I'd get to tell you
the news fer the last two months, but its
worse’n a yaller jacket fight in road workin’
time, an’ you don’t git no further than a
dog chasin’ his tail.

Why just this very mornin’I here’d the
last tap of that bell they ring for breakfast,
an’ I jumped plum off the top-decker an’
landed right in my breeches whut I allears
hang on a chair all set so I can hit ‘em first
thing, an’ just as I jumped the second time
I hit one shoe an’ missed the othern, then I
remembered I'd flung it out the winder at
one of them “Smart Elick” guys whuts for-
ever pokin’ planks in the winder about the
time I go to sleep tryin’ to figger out whut
them Greeks meant by all them funny marks!
they used to make, letters some call ‘em, but
I don’t believe them fellers knowed much
cause I can't make out a single thing that
looks like sense to me, i

Well I got that shoe and pulled it on as I
hopped down tore’d whur I git my meals,
cause I knowed I had to git thar early or all
the ege’s be gone, turned out T snatched halé
o’ one as a Franklin boy raked out the last
two of ‘em. Then I spilt nearly all my
coffee down the front 0’ my coat an’ thar I
wuz. hungry as a old sow an’ no time to do
a thing ‘cept grab a piece of bread as 1)
made a dive for the door, cause I here’d that |
bell ringin’ again and I run all the way to
the campus. !

Well, Jim, I gotta begin gittin’ ready for
what they call exams, they allers make
take one ‘fore you can say you aint a Fresh
or some such, they put you off in a room an’
tell you to write a book about whut you've
studied for the last four months, an’ you
oughter see some of these here teachers cut- |
up over the stuff they read to us, they Says |
it; real good but sounds to me like foolish- |

But I aint got time to tell you hardly |

Hess.

i bit more cause when these here exams come

never got used to “shootin’ the profs” as the
boys call it, I aint forgot that time I here’d|
the Brown boy, the one we used to call |
Vickie, say, “Boys that prof shore shot me |
cold!” And he said it so pained like that I}
got so mad I most cussed an’ started to cut
down on one o’ the, teachers when a feller
said, “You
question he couldn't answer, he aint hurt.” |
I thought he wuz shore enough shot, an’ Jim, |
that ‘Brown boy must be makin’ good cause |
he allers looks smart and peart as Aunt |
Fan’s youngun did when he got that speakin’ |
meddle, they tell me the gals like him too, |
and he nearly always sells tickets to these |
actin’ club shows we have up here.

Jim, you'll just have to wait till I git|
home so I can tell you the news, taint long |
now cause I here’d ’em say somethin’ about |
exams startin’ the 22nd.

And I'm goin’ to slip off before they start |
again, I guess they’re just goin’ to go right
on thru the summer with school cause J
here’d some say somethin’ about a ‘“com-
mencin” that will start about the 4th day o’
June, I don’t know for you remember I
slipped off on ’em last year and it sounds
like the same talk to me. Be shore an’ bring
the waggin sheet when you meet me at the
station, so if it rains we can cover up my
suitcase. Yours as ever,

Sam.

fool, he just asked Vickie a}

THREE ORIGINAL ON-ACT
PLAYS

(Continued from page 1)

taken by James Milhous, Tom Jones, Misses |
Dorothy Powell and Cornelia’ Wearn, of
Charlotte. |

The second of the three plays that will be
offered was written by W. F. Galloway, and
goes under the title The Only Way. Warren
Cox will take the leading role, and will be
seen as Mr. Graham. Other characters will
be represented by Francis Galloway, Hayden
Hollingsworth, Benton Wharton, Joe Walk-
er, and Miss Mabel Groff, of Savannah.

The play, by Professor Erwin, will be a
highly, amusing comedy, with the title Ice
Cream Soda or the Converted Missionary.
Arthur (Piggy) Martin, who has made a
name for himself in humorous characteriza-
tions, plays the part of the chief character,
Murray Thomas, an ambitious lawyer of
Morganton, N. C. The supporting cast in-
cludes such stars as Simril Bryant, Linton
Deck, and Miss Katherine Carr, of Moores-
ville.

\Sophs Flare Forth In

sists

, ent,

Revelry Again Tonight

Marks Second Event of Eating,
Drinking and Merry-Making

Tonight at 8:00 o'clock the Sophomores
are going to have a second banquet. The |
committee in charge: of - preparations con-
of:  Lindamood and Minter, with
Franklin as chairman. The banquet. is to!
be held at the Misses Shewmake’s, and prom- |
ises to be a wide-awake, “eat, drink, and be
merry” time.

The purpose of this second banquet is as |
an aftermath to the more elaborate one held |
in Charlotte on March 13, It is to increase |
class spirit and to bring a closer feeling and
co-operation among the Imembers.

C. E. Houston, popular member of the
class, will act as toastmaster, and promises |
a peppy, interesting program, “Nick” Sap-
penfield will make a brief talk on the future
of the class. Tom Baker, retiring president, |
will entertain with a survey of the present
and “Buck” Shaw, rising mentor of the!
class, will discuss the future and plans for it.
Besides these there will be other interesting
short talks. Dr. J. W. MacConnell will make
a speech characterized by his usual punch
and good advice. The principal talk of. the
evening will be -given by the Sophomore
faculty adviser, Dr. Fleagle.

Besides the two members of the faculty
and members of the classes, several promi-
nent members of other classes will be pres-
Covington, Hillhouse, |
and possibly several others, will attend and !
be called on for talks. |

|
|
|

Briggs, Jones,

BLUE RIDGE CONFERENCE |

Seo |
(Continued from page 4) |
groups, in conferences and in athletics. The |
athletic side of the program is complete in|
every detail, carrying with it such sports as

Mother’sLoveand|Prayers
Are Continuous Factors

Asserts Mrs. Lingle Who Speaks
Before Ministerial Band Sunday

At the Monther’s Day service of the

Ministerial Band last Sunday, the Band}

Was exceptionally favored by a talk from
Mrs. T. W. Lingle.

Mother of love and encouragement from
Mothers.

In beginning she told something of |
the attitude of women toward the at-|
tention of men, Women resent cold}
chivalry, politeness not prompted by love |
and they resent the condescending grat-
itude of protection on the part of some
men for the weaker sex, because women
have been recognized more or less as
the equal of men. She cautioned the
members of the Ministerial Band that!
they study their mothers and other
women that they might have a better un-
derstanding of womankind before they
go into the ministry on account of the
majority of women in the church,

As matron
ed the men to help the mothers of the
community in) maintaining the
standards of Davidson both by being
careful in the selection of girls invited
to events on the Hill, and by improving
the humorous material in our college
publications,

a of Davidson she ask-

In speaking of the relations between

little attention and expressions of love
that a mother wanted from a son and
things which would) make mother’s
life happier.

The relations between a mother and

ibaseball, tennis, baskethall, swimming, boat-|@f mother and son. A mother lives her ©, 1017.

Mrs. Lingle did not}
attempt to eulogize Motherhood as is the!
custom for men speakers on Motherey)
Day, but she spoke to the band as a

Ce _
DR. W. D. WEATHERFORD
President Southern College Y. M. C.
A.’s, Who Will Be One of the
Many Speakers at the Southern

Student Conference, June 17-26,
1924

Captain Ellis Ends Four
Years Service at Davidson

Performs Efficient Service With
Unit and as Track Coach

moral , -

When this yer comes to a close it
will mark the end of service here for a
man who has been, during his stay at
Davidson, a true Davidson man, Capt.
M. HL. Ellis came to Davidson on Jan-

ary 21, to2t, Before coming here he

;mother and son, Mrs. Lingle told of the had seen service on the Mexican border

with the cavalry.

Previous to going into the army Cap-
tain Ellis student at Allegheny
College, Penn. Upon graduating there
hin 1017 he joined the army and was com-

Was a

| daughter are entirely different from those) missioned a second lieutenant on August

He was sent to the Mexican

; any a ease llife over again i d r da sr, border where his entire time was spent
ing and hiking. The morning is always open- | life over eee that of her daughter, yes Tre ceenirereeltmtee His aeaiee
ed with a cold plunge in the lake, or a short but a son is just another suitor, She ex-| prior to his transfer here. :

vigorous hike to some nearby mountain peak, |
. . |
after which come the other duties of the day. |

of him little attentions of love
which gladden her heart and brighten

pects

there was of the highest, and for proof
lof this one need only note his rapid pro-

The list of speakers and directors will carry her life. He can practice the courship | motion, .

such names as Dr. A. M. Trawick, of Wof-/ 0! his girl on his mother by taking her |
| ford College; Mr. Sherwood Eddy, Dr, WW.) '0 # 8 Y
on these hoys git to goin’ so fast around) D, Weatherford, Mr. Kirby Page, and other | little things that he knows she likes,
here that it makes yer head swim, an’ I aint] outstanding characters in college and Y. M,| PY spending .some time with her.

|C. A. work, j |

Students from 10 states, representing over |

150 colleges, and numbering some 500 men, |
were in attendance at the last Blue Ridge |
Conference. And the conference of this |
year promises to be even larger and better. |

| Three colleges in three different states prom-
jise quotas of at least 50, and,others are

coming in only a slightly less force. Da-|

show occasionally, by giving her
and

A
son should have his mother meet his
friends, both girls and boys. Mrs.

Lingle stated that.if some of the boy’s,

mothers really knew the “flapper girls,”

are and find that their opinions were
perhaps erroncous concerning the so-
called flapper.

In closing, Mrs. Lingle left the thought

When the time came for him to leave
|his post.on the border the company of
| which he was a member presented him
with a gold watch in token of the love
jand esteem which they felt for him. As
| head of the Sophomore department four
years and as assistant in the Senior de-
| partment for two, He has carried on this

|they would find out what: fine girls they |reputation, Captain Ellis’ efficiency de-

serves double praise, for he came here
}as a cavalry officer and has creditably
| performed the duties of the infantry.

Kor the past two years he has been

j 7 i of ience that a er’s chil-| track coach, giving of his time that
vidson men realize the value of these days at) With her audience that a mother's chil-) track coach, giving :

Blue Ridge, and the number of her delegates |

dren always stand uppermost in her

Davidson’s athletic name might be ad-

: : : : i at whe “y are fi » | vanced, He has been a constant advocate
is swelling daily. But the goal of Davidson |™ind, that when they are far from home, | ¥ ged 2 ae and Rae fis
is to have the largest delegation present this she is continually thinking of them, anx- | of clean athletics and to him goes the

year. ‘To do this, every man must seriously |
consider his ability and possibility of at-
tendance there. Expenses, exclusive of rail-
road fare will be: Program fee, $7.00;
plus board, room, etc., for 10 days, $25.00;
totalling $32.00. But this expense can not
and must never be interpreted in terms of
what the return from it will be. That'is in-
calculable. The opportunity being offered,
an able man declining it does so at an in-
finite loss to himself.

The lure of the entire conference is irre-
sistable. With its sports, its lectures, its
associations, its friends, its wonderful sur-
roundings are its own advertisements. So-
licitation is never practiced, only opportunity
is offered. And so great is its lure, its at-
traction and its benefits, that June 17 will
find almost a thousand boys sporting and
living together in this haven of pleasure and
delight for the Southern Y. M. C. A. man.
Davidson men are going, and he who delays
his decision is going to be left off the band
wagon when it pulls out. The concensus of
opinion among all Davidson boys who have
attended these conferences is that they are
of immeasurable value.

CHOSE OELAND TO HEAD
PALMETTO STATE CLUB

At a meeting of the South Carolina
Club last Friday morning, R. W. (Bub)
Oeland, was elected president by a
unanimous vote. Other officers for the
coming year are: Martin Teague, vice-
president; and W. T. Davis, secretary-
treasurer.

At this meeting, the last of the year,
each Sandlapper was urged to try to
‘bring another man to Davidson from the
Palmetto state next year. The retiring
officers are: Johnnie Smith, president;
Brown McCallum, vice-president; and
H. L. Shaw, Jr., secretary-treasurer.

ious for their safety and cager to hear
good news from them. It was suggested
that the boys tell their mothers of the
good times they have, because they en-
joy them as much as their sons.

A. N. Moffett led the meeting and in-
troduced Mrs. Lingle. Piggy Martin’s
quartet sang My Mother's Prayers Have

Followed Me during the first of the
meeting.
ey)
o &
NN
ue

\

\
\

VD YLLEED

jeredit for the development of such track
|stars as Davidson claims.

While here Captain Ellis has been
loyal to both school and government and
has been a marked credit to both. He
has in every way entered into the true
| spirit of Davidson’s customs and tradi-
| tions and he may leave, knowing that
lhe has the heartiest good wishes of the
entire student body as he takes up his
new duties at the Cavalry School, Fort
Riley, Kansas, after spending three well
earned months of rest at his home in
Meadville, Penn.

Approximately 175 New
Men Already Registered

Entire Freshmen Class Roll Will be
‘Completed Before June

During no period in Davidson's history
have applications for entrance so
numerous as they have been this year. By
May 5, Mr. Hengeveld’s books recorded 157
already signed up and with fees paid. In
the following week about 25 more applica-
tions and fees came in, making a total of ap-
proximately 175.

If the registration of incoming Freshmen
continues at this rate, all possible places will
be filled by commencement. The 225 that the
faculty set as a‘maximum is going to prove
much too small to take care of all appli-
cations,

If these first 225 register before the sum-
mer begins there will be no further oppor-
tunity for admittance except by the with-
drawal.of some name on the list.

With such a demand for entrance David-
son should get a better prepared incoming
Freshman class, This is hoped for both by

been

the faculty and by the student body.
