THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 1, 1924

Major Hearn Addresses Farewell Letter

Expressing His Views of Davidson Life

The few words printed here express the
spirit of the man who is leaving Davidson
for another field. His work here has been
to better conditions where he could, espe-
cially in the military department, and he has
done work that already bears fruit. Major
Hearn is admired and loved by those most
closely associated with him, and is respected
by everyone who knows him.

The following
from Major Hearn:

is the farewell message
“Commencement will terminate my four
The Man-
chu Law requires one year out of five to be
on duty with troops. Accordingly, T shall he

transferred this summer. i

years of service with Davidson.

“LT wish to address a few farewell thoughts |

to the student body before departure.

“When first entering upon my official
duties as head of the Military Department,
I was struck with the beauty of the campus,
thegrandeur and impressiveness of old Cham-
bers, and the many fine traditions and customs
of the Hill,

“Since that time | have often asked myse'f
these questions, ‘What is the greatest and
Most important thing about Davidson?
‘What is it that makes it of first importance
to the community, to thousands of hearts
and homes, and of so great importance to
the Chureh and State?” I have come to the
conclusion that it is the Why of its existence.

“On Davidson campus the of the
times are known. These distinetive and
dangerous forees and influences which stalk
through the land, invading fireside and pul-
pit, school room and state house, spreading
and producing ignorance and superstition, dis-
loyalty and crime, confusion and corruption,

evils

doubt and disbelief, are no strangers here.
Their whence and whither, where and what,
are facts known to those who toil
this Church institution. It also
known that they battle not alone nor in a
losing cause. Not only have they the loyal
support of homes throughout 19 states which
annually enroll their sons, the power of the
Church, and the substance of the land, but
also the inspiration and guidance of that all-
powerful Spirit which has through the ages
led on from victory unto victory.

for and

serve is

“Davidson knows her mission and recog-
nizes it as being: ‘To send oyt every man
a Christian, highly resolved to serve Church
and State and to walk in the fear of the
Lord in whatsoever vocation, indiscrimi-
nately, but more especially that of the min-
istry and the mission field.’ :

“To accomplish this purpose, (1) every
man is brought into the told of the Church,
taught and schooled in the Book of Truth;
(2) the mind trained and disciplined
through the acquisition of a liberal education ;
(3) the body is built up and brought under
control; (4) the ideals of service, duty,
honor and truth are instilled therein.

“Davidson does not send forth her own
without also a physical mark of identification,
but equips them with a diploma and a com-
mission which is to certify that she therein
imposes her trust, and to admonish them ever
so to walk before God and man that no stain
shall come upon that glorious history thus
far made by Davidson men.

“IT do not know where my new station
shall be, but I can be found, it is hoped, for
many years to come, in care of the Adjutant
General of the Army, Washington, D. C.

“Good-bye and may Davidson ever “Carry
‘On’ and your spirit win many a hard fought
battle.”

1S

T. G. HEARN,
Prof. of Military Science and Tactics.

WHAT’S DOING
Thursday, May8:

3:30 p. m.—Deciding game between
winners of Fresh-Soph and Junior-
Senior games.

7:30 p. m.—Eumenean and Philan-
thropic Literary Societies.

Saturday, May 10:

7:30 p. m—Moving Pictures, The
Love Master, starring Strong-
-heart.

Sunday, May 11:

10:00 a. m—Volunteer Band.

1:15 p. m—C. E. Training Class.
2:00 p. m.—Ministerial Band; Mrs.

Exchanges

The University of Minnesota has the larg-
est faculty in any American college, 1,250 ta
all, while the smallest number, only two,
the property of Beaver College, Penn,

radio
55

The first intercollegiate debate by
was held on the evening of February 27
when the Universities of Oregon and Califor-
| nia discussed the question, Resolved That the
Bok Peace Plan be adopted. The briefs of
i the two teams were exchanged before the de-

bate to insure a direet clash of the major
| issues,
The class averages at Notre Dame for the

{first semester were as follows: Freshman,

180.7; Sophomore, 79.4; Junior, 81.7; Senior
82.8.
Up at Massachusetts Tech, the R.O. TC.

infantry men are taught the and)
shooting of a rifle, the manual of arms, and
the school of the squad, by means of moving
pictures.

loading

The entire class counts in cadence
as the men on the sereen execute the manual
of arms. This method gives the students an
opportunity to observe the manual of arms
and correct their own errors, it any. fv,

At Columbia University, small bronze in-

signia bearing a white crown upon them «are
awarded all freshmen who have been report-
ing regularly for any of the college activi-
ties, both athletic and non-athletic. These
are-usually the first rewards that the incom-
ing students receive.
Georgia Tech is working and planning tor
Lacrosse team, which will no doubi be
the first, or one of the first, in the South.
Tech is developing an athletic system in
which each man has an opportunity to partici-
pate, and Lacrosse offers opportunity for the
finest type of athletes. It is recognized as |
demanding more endurance and vitality than
most any form of outdoor or indoor sport.

a

WILDCAT NINE HONORED

(Continued from page 1)

Mr. S. A. Robinson, member of the board
of trustees, was called on first. He told ef
the personal pride that he has always felt in
the athletic record of Davidson, and that her
success has been due to the high standard of
sportsmanship that has always been a part
of the college traditions, Mr, Query re-
minded those present that no mention was |
to be made of the afternoon's game as “By-
gones, were to be byegones.” Whereupon,
Sam Robinson remarked that the gloricus
victory of last year would do him for 20
years to come, if the Wildcats never won
another game.

Tim Pharr, '12, and one of Davidson's
famous athletes, made a ringing address,
dealing with fair play and clean athletics. A
minister and an excellent speaker, he knew |
how to put his message across to his’ listen- |
ers. “Doc” LaFar, ’22, and “Pat” Crawford,
last year’s graduate, made short and snappy
talks, When W. D. Lawson, Jr., better |
known as “Bill,” said a few words, Mr. |
Query asked him, and the ones who had |
just spoken, to stand up together, and on)
their rising together, he said, “There, men, |
are four of the greatest athletes that ever |
went to Davidson College. “Pat” Crawford |
and LaFar have made their names known en |
the football and baseball field and the bas- |
ketball courts. “Tim” Pharr was one of the |
|best halfbacks ever at Davidson, scoring
| against the Navy in one of those games, and
| was also a star first-baseman. ‘Bill’ Lawson }
| was one of the best pitchers ever to wear a/
| ‘D,’ and a star on the gridiron as well.”
| Mr. R. A. Love, ’98, told of the old col-
lege customs that were in effect at his time
at school and held his listeners for some
time. Dr. Douglas, graduate manager of
athletics, told of his appreciation of the ban-
quet and also of the Davidson spirit and
standard of sports. F.-L. Smythe and Rev.
T. G. Tate, both of Gastonia, made appro- |
priate speeches. R. H. Bennett, °16, en-
| thusiastic member of the Association, made |
his listeners laugh with a good joke that he

‘Ministerial Band Gets

Ready for Coming Year

New Officers Installed and Several
Committees Appointed in Sunday
Service

The newly-elected officers of the Minis-
terial Band installed at othe
meeting last Sunday in Shearer Hall.

were regular

Lce

‘McLean, the retiring president, after a brief

talk on Preparation, delivered the charge to
the incoming officers, reminding them of the

+ great responsibility that would be theirs, but

which at the same time gave them a won

derful opportunity for serving Christ on
this campus.
A. N. Moffett, the new president, gave a

brief summary of the progress of the Band
during the past year, and pointed out the op
portunities it had for improvement during
the coming year.
appeal for full-hearted support from every
member in order that the Band might he

In conclusion he made an

permanence and ideals et the
On a seroll beneath, that® extends
jirom one side of the seal te the other, are
the three words that are the basic ideas of
the fighting Duty, Service,

Above the D, between the heads of

traditions,

R.0.T.C.SealforHandboo
Designed by W. M. Heston

, school.

man’s code

Symbolizes Past and Future of (Honor.

me one of the most vital organizations on Davidson’s Career the two soldiers, is the college seal.
this campus. : ee
: i nf 4 ; ' ii The whole expresses the part that the
Reports were ubmitted by the different With the Han pment ot Bh mi we dle lie. O. T. C, work plays in.the college course,
committees for the term just ended, Com partment at 1 avidson during Major Hearn’s | vg the ideas and ideals of Unele Sam's re-
Mittees for next term were appointed. ‘The! stay here, and the ineredsed interest in whe |

inducted Moffett, president;
Hollingsworth, vice-president ; Gladney, see
retary; Freeland, treasurer.

officers are:

sponded, A’ feature the Was
each one responding to the toustmaster’s i

of occasion
vitation to sing out his name, class, and resi
dence.

At the close of the banquet, Mr, Robinsen
told of the Chambers building soon to be
erected and also of the lively interest taken
in Davidson affairs by the Gaston County
alumni. The affair closed with yells for the
Association by the team and thy
entire crowd soon returning to Gastonia,

Visitors ;

Miss Eloise who who recently has had
an attack of influenza, has recovered.

; SES a {serve and active Torces.
work, the unit has become a distinetive part

bot student activities. “The staff of the P.M.
1S. and T. put into effeet several new ideas.
, Captain Weems, who will be PL M.S. and 7.
next year, has just gotten the first copies
vot the seal of the department from the press.
IW. M,. Heston has incorporated the ideas of
ithe stati into a well-balanced and significant
print.

| next
| In the middle is a large D with a snarling

| wildeat inside, representing the spirit of Da-
To the left of the
1D, in the garb of the frontier days and with
his long rifle in his hand, stands a soldier « 1

MRS. LINGLE SPEAKS TO MIN-
ISTERIAL BAND SUNDAY

A special program has been arranged
for the meeting of the Ministerial Band
Mrs. ‘T. W.
speak and her message will be in re-
Mother's Piggy Martin
will be present with his quartette to fur-
nish a special musical program,

Sunday. Lingle will

lar x : rar Day.
i vidson’s athletic teams. gard to :

Mrs. Lingle needs no introduction to
Davidson students and a full attendance
is expected, Everyone is invited to the
meeting whether they belong to the band
not.

ithe old days, representing General Davidson,
fatter whom the college is named, Ca the
| opposite side of the D stands a cadet officer
Just beneath the Dare the tour
| columns of old Chambers, representing the

of today.

EX AIBITION , 7
of
CLOTHES

and

HABERDASHERY

At School

Tuesday
May 13th

GEO. O’DONALD, Rep.

FINCHULEY HAS ESTABLISHED A
FRESH AND TASTLIFUL STAND-
ARD OF ATTIRE, WHICH IS REC-
OGNIZED AND ACCEPTED BY
COLLEGE MEN. JACKETS OF NEW
SUITS ARE FULL-BODIED AND
THE TROUSERS OF CORRECT
COLLEGIATE WIDTH. FABRICS
ARE IMPRESSIVE IN THEIR
DISTINCTION AND QUALITY.

READY -T0-PUT- ON
AND
TAILORED TO MEASURE

Finchley Haberdashery,
selected abroad, has uncom-
mon character and value,

‘ Lingle, speaker. got off; Henry Wilson, ’21, also made a hit

6:15 p. m—Special Mother's Day $| with a story that he told. Coach “Monk”
service at Y. M. C. A. Vespers; §/ Younger, ’19, was heard with attention by all |
Rey. Wade C. Smith will speak. and had a vital message to tell of his work |
Monday, May 12: |and plans for Davidson's future. Several ci |
9:00 p. m—Meeting of Sigma Up- §|the high school boys who had been invited |
silon. | by their coach, “Pat” Crawford, were pres- |

$3 Tuesday, May 13: jent, and Robert-Monday said a few words.

7:15 p. m.—Pandeinic and Metro-
: philian Literary Societies.
! 8:45 p. m—El Club Espanol.

} | Calling on the team for speeches, “Red” Mc- !
| Pherson responded with a witty outburst that |
| kept the banqueters holding their sides for a
while, Laird, Alford and Vance also re-|

7

i
ALY

CIE

NEW YORK

5SWest 46th. Street

