THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 9, 1924 3

| Junior Speaking Plans \”

Rapidly Materializing Ride in Buicks and
ce Hudsons

Committee Hard at Work Rounding :,
Out Plans for Week of Fun Attractive Rates for Long

or mee Trips

WALTON HOTEL
New - Modern |

Rates
$1.00 and $2.00

The Junior class plans ta have Junior
Speaking this year during the Easter holi

days. A committee has already been appoint "BEAL
ed to arrange for the speaking and social BEN

activities of the week and has been at work PHONE 163 ° DAY OR NIGHT

5th and College Streets

Charlotte : L
for some time,
This committee is made up of the tollow-
a oe ing members of the Junior class: Buck
Shaw, chairman; D. G. Wilson, evice-chair-
man; EK. RK. Regen, Red) Anderson, Cheek The

H. M. JOHNSTON

Monk, Jim Appleby. and Fred Smith.

‘ es
Our Annual Intelligence Test "Shorty Love's latest song : Alleot the Junior class expects to mike Raleigh Cafe

A. Undersecore the word that) makes the “I’m in two bits next Junior Speaking the biggest: and bes:
sentence true— ~ From Freshman Beet, yet, according to Buek Shaw, president: of |
FA NCY GROCERIES iL, Davidson is noted for its: He hought from me the class. Always has something good
Dances, cement walks, holidays. A chapel seat.” To defray the expenses of this week a for the Davidson Boys.
‘2. Boarding douse Steak comes from: - —— lyceum course of four numbers is being It isa pleasure to
See Me for Feeds COAL ete tells Cktite) Le, Fresh Martin Crawford Wants to know if brought to Davidson. Advance sales of the serve those high
B. Draw. a line under the right answer all the Florida Keys are on one ring. season tickets is reported darge. Prot. bo 4. t fellows
1, Are Shorty Tsove's long pants - short Erwin, the faculty supervisor fer the ly late We :
pants?  Yes-No, Said the chamber maid to the sleeping guest. sceum, made a short talk in chapel Tuesday
Phone 20 2. Does Fresh Frantz talk more than Ott. Get up, you lazy sinner, morning in behalf of it. ®
Breener? — Yes-No. For we need the sheet for a table cloth,

CL Cross ont the word that does not belong Andoa’s almost tine for dinner. E. J. HEATH 1 TO SPEAK
in cach line-
(Gontinned from page 1)

1. Lineoln, Stutz, Packard, Ford. Soe Gibbs: “You're just been te barber
2. Cake, jee cream, pie. prunes. college, haven't you?” serving as the head of the Teachers’ “Praiming 221 West Trade St.
D. Answer the following questions C.F. Smith: “Yeah. Why?" School.
1. What do you think of the poem, "Con See: “What's your college velle” The subject chosen fon his address on y
fessions of a Stenographer 27" Ts it niee! CoB: "A éut on the lip! A eut on the Thursday evening “ts entinently fitting, in ae
Is it suitable for a Sunday School reci jaw! Leave his face raw, raw raw! view of the Tact that the ( zechs have oe
ation 2 r : t rote | - cupied a prominent place iuzthe limelight ot
t stimulates tation? Why net? Who wrete it. : ' kM } i
“appetite and When? Why? Can Littlejohn recite CRACKER BOYS EAT AND international affairs in recent years; and J
: iat? specially since the Moravian ehureh, a4
aids digestion. all of it? MAKE MERRY WEDNESDAY «1 ;
ey Samaria ich Professor Heath is a member and a
It makes your 2, A round ball Band and Q nine inehe Wednesday night the sons of the Empire ee yee Heh " ; Cc h Sh ‘ 1 (ts
neuer , ae 48 eet ; minister, originated in Czech Slovakia im the
Seca: T hotaikow in circumference and weighing 42,004,338 State gathered once more for their aunual carly partol the fiteenth century ~ Barber Shop
; m0 iS fee Tree FHWA ae ) arly pi ’ , $
ft relic’ s that stuffy ike Se ee Ue aM ety PERE get-together meeting, Dr. T. W. Lingle, a personal triend ot 4
e s ieeling at-ean angle of 180 degrees, coefficient ot Of the 55 Georgia boys on the Hilla ma). hr Heat i introduce the \ :
after hearty cating. Sai) aH aa x) mil eee : i Protesshr Heath, will introduce the speaker § ‘
: Cad AHL Hell] BREN We UES COUN EDE Tait? GN Hpkesate TL NY TNH AUPE Professor Heath will begin his address at
DOU es aS Gli) We aCauuley recount Ol lourbt|| injuries and other things. 8:00 o'clock, this hour eine seteain ord The Best
what started the ball? heen : ee aii Treated on ee : o ;
oe panes cree ae ; Phe new men Were formally we leomed hy that members of the literary societies may by .
in its that aia Re ieee leva vee beeen LCL bac CHAM CUT RGN GG NOUS enabled t@ attend the lecture atter them so
C, te By, a butcher, tor Bes Norse, Do the latter: praisi ana ran aii : : e
0 Y v : ne Tht? Qritatitins Uhre jpsitonaitass ad ABER ee capes. MW etttndleranis unrdl- deonavranctprcangpd
Puri t and thirty dollars. “They swap and a that the Cracker boys hive had while on Capea e ea Q : ee ° in own
iv i hs F . : : 5 > C ‘ : ‘are invited to attend, R
P kz , week later both Cand D die. Can Bore- the Hill, Monk enumerated the deeds of s
ac age cover the $30.00 A cheated him out of > former Georgia men and seta high mark for eeccccceece ‘ s
4. 01i it takes a one-legged grasshopper the class of (28 to aim for. CALENDAR : A TRIAL WILL CON-
with a sty on his lett eve 13 minutes and After a few short specehes everyone, in H
nine seconds to pick alf the seeds out ot nurn, get up and introduced himself or her THURSDAY : $ ‘
° , + tlelr ;° ° ; (ite) —_
opel: ou alll plete SiON OU td , self (as the case might have been) giving 7:30- umencan Literary Society ‘ VINCE OU
take a blind alligator, carrying a bottle his name, town ete.; this added quite a bit 9:00 Philanthrapie Literary Se
of milk on his tail, to swim across the 4, the occasion, though some new towns were mane eee Sees
Delago river, if the thermometer regis- ; ‘ ae
u : § put on the map. PRIDAY:
tered zero and there wasn't any Delago Ahan hore be eet, OHNE asa soit Te NRCC TITTY ae SMITE
D PINES gathering would not be complete without (infec
When in Ch rlct-e take Br Errata TAI ESRETITGERGATT IY Lass ; allege.
e ak YOuUr f Answer the following sentences in less that serious faced boy, Piggy Martin, pres Sie auntie resign Vs ar 0 e
meals at the than three words, omitting all reter- ont, Piggy made the hit of the evening with Stee

nees to Jethro and Shorty Howell is ilopue oo The Slachk-face Veuroe .
was » Jethro anc Nea sree his epilogue on The Black-faced ae 8:00 Biddle Quintet. Benefit Transfer Company

° ik, moostugers come * TCINaS Preacher, which was typical at our blac in
t . vache, SiS Tn Davidsonian.
WwW Cc ajereria why don't: they? faced brethren, for instance, Jethro! SATURDAY
2. Which is more deceptive, a falsetto AT Sigman, however, was the one who re

‘ , (i ; i 33 Javidser Se oftford,
voice or a false set oo teeth? ceived the biggest vote of thanks, as he had ia " ane UNS TO PHONE 298
(L133 ATOVICS,

3. Should proteins he caten with or with the most important part in the program, SUNDAY: > :
ERVICE out cream ? namely, that af the feed. Lt was declared by : A) ON). ht rai
+ : sj is : : le {ESSES, ’ en Oy
hoTs it permissable ta serve spaghettt everyone present to be second to none, Not 1:15 c I 1 i ing CT BAGGAGE
pr : : 15-0. 1. Vraining Class.
wound on a bobbin? only did everybody have enough, but quite > 00 Minijat ir Ae f pea s
ATISFACTION ce SUM SAIS ee escent Me cata A Gite dad eae EE EL BNO tes)
ye 4 Service
turb it? club broke up for the cevning : : =
: ; Be TUESDAY: SERVICE
i i ‘ ae 6. Should carmutfs be serve | with water- eariad aioe f ; Fee ATRL: SE }
That’s what we give It seemed that all the dormite LS ls 7:30-- Pandeinic Literary Society.
melon ? aware of the facet that the Cracker boys a es wait
fi ait, : Siti ; i y 7:30--Metrophilian Literary So
7. In serving fishballs should oan ordinary were meeting, as various yells of approval

tennis racket be used? erected the Georgia men as they deft iu ciety, JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

Cleaning 8. Should cream be scolded befere it is : - ree i pean ; 8306 Sophomores vs. Seniors. |

Hall after giving several yells for thei
and whipped ? : state.
9, It is proper for potatoes to turn their peer

cade enwnnrwnonnnnfawnnanannnne, jaw awn scwwanannnnnnanawownnn nnn rrr name
Pressing ae ee FORMER RED :D AND BLACK
- ae eae | (Continued from page 1) H
Freshmen answering all the questions cot | you. Jesus is saying to you, ‘Follow me,’ H WHITE DRUG COMPANY
Tobe Johnson rectly will receive a solid gold, stem windins Why do you doubt Tim? oe can ae i Bei
mud puddle. HeMest and. poorest min in “the world anc H
- imake a messenger out of him, Why do we H
When Charlie Hunter tried to buy a pair doubt such a God that can take a sinner Drugs, Medicines, Stationery, Toilet Articles hy
of shoes the other day the salesman told and a law-breaker like Matthew and make a Norris’, Whitman's and Hollingsworth’s Candies
M h & him that he couldn't take his measure. tle disciple and a writer out of him as He did?
erc ants Farmers said he'd have to have his foot measured and [ook at a man out of the eyes of the world
N ti ] B k he didn’t have room insidesand it was rain- and then look at him out of cde eyes of Jesus, PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY
a lona an ing outside, and you will see a great difference in the
C aE he same man, Remember that ‘Man looketh on = as Ss pate
harlotte, N. C. Harlee Branch wants to know what has the outward appearance, but the Lord Toak- z ser ae ,
$ $ become of the old-fashioned girl who thought) eth on the heart.’ fi afi ] i
she was cngaged after the first: kiss. Canara ave onee a drunken mai so) sad H i)
ee den with liquor that all of his neighbors Hl
A Freshman asked Sook Boggs it un We ‘shuddered and got out of his way whenever jf} e 0
Sanitary Inspector of the R. O. T. C. they saw him coming. He was an outcast | |
aS ee cS and a beast? One day God said, ‘1 need that DAVIDSON H
maf,” and took him and converted him, That |
4% paid on Savings Accounts ° ) e man was John Newton, the great theologian. f¥ ees : }
and Certificates of Champion Electric “Another man that was an outcast and an H We are receiving daily t
D it ° almost inhuman creature that could curse so ' H
epos ‘Shoe Fixery that he even made a sailor ashamed of him- H shipments of H
self, but who was taken by God and who | H
Checking Accounts Invited Best Shoe Shop in Town $ ater tived a life of usefulness, was none ft H
| ‘ ‘: other than John Bunyan, who wrote ‘Pil-) fj - L AND WINTER CLOTHES H
Shoes Repaired While 3 grim's Progress, H H
: i ; * ‘ H
U Wait - “God wants us to work for him. It we) iy | est Styles H
Scofield Tea Room: pees ; would but listen we could. hear Flis call te’ Latest S yl
W. W. GIBSON, Prop. us to ‘get into the game’ and-help mak= this A 5
Home Cooking Davidson, N. C. | old world a happier place. May all of us| Manhattan Shirts Selz Six $ Shoes
{determine fully in our hearts to follow the | :
Good Eats All the Time! i Lord Jesus Christ.”
