4

‘The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

. FOUNDED BY CLASS OF "15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

of Da

Entered at the Post Offic
Second Cl:

the

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

itor-in-Chief
Manager

LISTON D._ ELKIN

REGINALD L. PRIC
Editorial Staff
._S; McILWAINE..........

AKE...-.- x
RICE___
GALLOWAY ___-
: R..

-.....Managing Editor
Assistant Managing Editor
Assistant Managing Editor
.......-Athletic Editor
Peanut Parcher Editor
.......Associate Editor
Editor

Pe ee ‘ Subscription
--Circulation Manager
--Assistant Manager
re ie Typist

aa: tant
- Service Manager

Bookkeeper
is _-Adverti

ION DEPARTMENT
ee Seaaecuwet ----......-Manager
a ssistant Manager

WATT McCAIN ____
THOMPSON___

REPORTERS’ CLUB

HURD, A. M,, Pres, MORROW, G, M
WHARTON, D.B., V.-Pres O'CONNOR, E. P
APPLEBY, J. M. nek Bh
BOWIE, A, Y, :
GARRISON, J. M.
GIBBS, L. RB:

JL,
HOLLINGSWORTH, A. H.
MARSHALL, C. K.
MOLHOUSE, i F,
MILTON, W. F.
IORE, J. E,

ROGERS, G. D.
THOMPSON, J. B.
SHAW, H.

Sy
STORY, P. J
WILLIAMS,

JM,

EDITORIAL |.

Our idea of a man who is headed for the
penitentiary is that one who maliciously covers
a “Do Not Spit on the Floor” placard with
tobacco juice. :

D
The Charlotte Observer commends the stu-
dents of Davidson for their support of the Bok
Peace Plan. The students of the old college
are really a peace-loving collection of humans
after all, Seniors and Juniors included, despite
the current rumors of revolution and anarchy.

5 The wrestling team made a creditable show-
Ing in its first match of the year, winning every
entry. This branch of athletics bids fair to be
developed into a popular sport. Coach W. eems,
former West Point grappler, is promising a
Winning team this year.
D
Since the completion of the Davidson Col-
lege Highway between Charlotte and Davidson,
students have come to recognize Charlotte as
town.” One man who missed catching the ex-
pected ride and had to walk the entire twentv
miles has reverted hack to the old theory that
Jaybirdsville is a fur, fur piece from town.”
)

How many men would like to see Fall term
examinations held before Christmas, as in years
past? It is our guess that one-third. of the
student body would vote for such a move, And.
a big majority of the remaining two-thirds is in
favor of adopting a three-session system, Think
it over for yourself ! 2
; 1).

The present Senior class could leave no bet-
ter record behind them than a clean set of busi-
ness records, One of the most embarrassing
situations in which the student body has found
itself this year, is that of straightening out un-
paid accounts from previous years

= The man who refrains from smoking at the

Y” movie show is not doing a work of charity

or mercy, He is displaying a common courtesy.
mA h

The men at Davidson have not allowed
themselves to fall into the slothful’ current of
the Ma Jong movement. : It is a fruitless waste
of time for college men who are spending their
days in life’s preparation. Davidson men still
swear by the old game of “Draw.” It’s so
much faster ;and, too, it’s the game our fathers
played.

D
UNIVERSAL IMPERFECTION

Man comes into a world of faultiness, a being of
faultiness; he. passes into eternity still branded with
that universal failing.

At every turn through life there is fault and fault-
finding. The torturous way of life, itself, is beset with
faulty points and seemingly impossible barriers.

But, faultiness is not sin. It is man’s own prop-
erty, assigned to follow him from the downfall to the
resurrection. It is a trait; a quality inherent; a thread
interwoven with-the-fabric of character. It is the

|

endowment of every man that lives. It is a part of
nature, the most perfect thing conceivable. It is the
will of the Creator.

Would it be part of the divine plan to send man
into the world innately endowed with faults, if faults
led but to disappointment and destruction? There is
a purpose in the universality of imperfection.

“They say, best men are moulded out of faults,”
writes Shakespeare in Measure for Measure. Here
the great playwright assigns the faults of the world
as a source of some goodness.

Is it possible that out of the miserable failures and

blemishes of humankind there might arise some right-
cousness? Is it possible that an aet of beneficence and
goodness can come from a person whose whole being
has been saturated with the mistakes of life?
If it were not so, there would
be no hope for man, for fault is born with man.
Every life is a battle against failure. Shakespeare
knew this, from his observation and study of human-
kind, and had he gone into a fuller explanation of his
terse statement that “best men are moulded out of
faults,” he would have explained that the man who
best combats his faults and failures is the man who
will attain success. Man is educated by his mistakes.
He profits by losing. He succeeds after repeated
failures. :

The answer is yes!

br ttthitteelll PY

The ultimate end of imperfection should be perfec-
tion. The purpose of faultiness is excellence.

The ore as it comes from the earth, polluted with
the dirt and filth, is man over-burdened with imper-
fections. And yet the purest gold may come from
blackest ore. From the intense heat in the furnace
of lite, where faults and misgivings may be run off
through a process of persistence and will-power, there
may come a lump of true gold.

Faultiness is not sin. It is the stuff from which
the best men are moulded. x

NEEDED—TEN THOUSAND DOLLARS!

HE Student Store, operated under the

supervision of the Student Council, is a

money-making enterprise. The business
is a thriving one, and the methods employed in
its operation are sound. The profits from the
store for one year, when the enterprise is thor-
oughly established, will be expressed in four
figures. It has the hacking of the entire stu-
dent body, and with a continuation of the same
able management under which it has been
started, it should be a permanent institution on
the campus.

So far as has been.made public, there has
been no provision made for the appropriation
of the profits. The store is operated by the
Student Council, through an appointed man-
ager, for the interest of the student body, hence
the profits should be directed in those channels
which will lead to the maximum good for the
student body at large.

It has been rumored that the profits of. the
student store willsbe turned in to the Athletic
Association. There are other speculations as to
the use of these funds.

The Athletic Association is on the firmest
financial footing of any organization at David-
son. It is true that the treasury of any organi-
zation on the hill would stand replenishing, and
that the Athletic Association is in need of
funds, but there is no denial to the statement
that athletics receive the best support of any
activity in the college, and, admittedly, this
should he true. Is it not true, however, that
there are other needs which outweigh that of
the Athletic Association? The source from
which this activity draws its financial aid is
more prolific and productive than the agencies
which support other student endeavors.

There is one activity which is recognized as
equally important with athletics. This is the
student publications. Few men on the campus
stop to consider, however, that approximately
ten thousand dollars must be expended an-
nually to keep these publications up to the
necessary standard. Of this amount approxi-
mately seven thousand five hundred dollars
must be raised through student ingenuity, the
remainder heing paid through the campus tax
at the beginning of each session.

Think for a moment! Over seven thousand
dollars msut be raised, principally through the
sale of advertising space. The little village of
Davidson furnishes less than two hundred dol-
lars of this amount. The only source from
which to draw is Charlotte, and since the Da-
vidson publications circulate very little in that
city, space must be sold at a low figure, or not
at all, a fair per cent of this income going. to
overhead expenses, cost of collection, etc.

Charlotte is called upon to support the Da-
vidsonian, the Davidson College Magazine,
Quips and Cranks, the Y. M. C. A. Handbook,
football programs and any number of desk
blotter enterprises from Davidson. In addi-
tion there are two publications, a weekly news-
paper and a year book from Queens, a weekly
paper and an annual from the Charlotte High
School, a Junior High School paper, and. the
Johnston C. Smith University publications. It
is a drain upon the Queen City to provide for
this number of publications, and a drain upon
the energy and time of the Davidson student

publishers to keep their publications free from
debt.

The profits from the student store should be |

turned over to the publications. To apportion
the amount fairly; we would suggest that the

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 7, 1924

net profits of the store, after the salary of the
manager has been paid, be divided as follows:

30 per cent to Quips and Cranks.

30 per cent to the Davidsonian.

20 per cent to the Davidson College Maga-

zine.

20 per cent to Student Body treasury.

This would be a fair division of the money.
The 20 per cent retained in the student body
treasury would serve as a fund for incidental
general expenses of the student body.

The publications merit the whole-hearted
support of the students. It is-a tremendous
enterprise to operate them on the high level
the editorial boards are trying to maintain; it
is, seemingly, an accomplishment of the impos-
sible.

The profits from the student store would
give them a firmer foundation upon which to
stand, and a new lease on life.

D.
THE ONE WHO DREAMED

A Tribute to | Woodrow Wilson

You were the one who dreamed; who climbed into»the
clouds,

Your soul leapt to the stars, your spirit bruised the
skies.

And you were strong as men are strong,

3ut weak as men are weak,

For who has strength to hold the crumbling moon

Or stem the ebb and flow of silver tides ?

You were the crucified, pierced by the nails of scorn;
You died the martyr to a dream, the victim to a cause.
You were the brave who threw a gauntlet down,

And there it lies, your glove, on bleeding ground.
Who is there now to pick it up again?

You blossomed forth a flower too gentle for this world.
Your tints of lavender and rose were silenced in their
Vet
Dlaring réds and golds.
The perfume of your soul, so delicate, has drifted in
the wind and is no more.
Ah, child of God, the fruit is not yet ripe
But spring is blowing blossoms on the tree,

Ah, prophet of a better age,

I see your puzzled brow.

How could you understand, who offered something
great,

The scorn with which your people turned it down?

How could you understand,

Whom the oppressed with laurels wreathed

That doubters here should give you bitter thorns ?

And now that you art gone a poet is gone
For poets and statesmen both have eager souls that

flow

Beyond the body's bounds, and both must fashion
dreams

And build their empires or their poems on unknown
ground.

So you, philosapher and poet,

Built minerets that sparkled high, too high,

And wove soft stuffs of silken thread and gossomer
and lace,

But iron was lacking and the world still builds with
iron

And never sees the beauty of a lace.

Philosopher and dreamer, and a poet.

Is that the whole indictment of the world?

For Plato dreamed, and Pericles, and
dreamed,

And was Columbus void of dreams,

Who sailed.across the sea to prove one true?

And Pitt and Beaconsfield who moulded Britain's em-
pire from a dream.

Did Wilson dream? Like them, he dreamed.

And what then are these dreams but shadows
events to come,

The prophecies of poets, the order to advance?

Alexander

of

In many years, or few, for who can know?

But sure as time, and as the Spring's returning ;
As sure as God has given man a soul;

So will the groping world turn back to you
And-find you still the same

Calm, confident, and smiling through your’ pain.

Each star must have its setting;

Each dream a stern awaking ;

And nights must pass and days must pass

But stars and dreams and nights and days return

When clouds of passion all have passed away.

Your night has slipped into the dawn;

And morning dew shines on the dark-green grasses;

And gems begin to sparkle on the sea. ~

Turn back a moment. Look!

Your bark has slipped its anchor ;

On the shore a nation and a world look after you.
W. F. Gatraway.

CHAFF

“So This Is Leap Year.” Well, speaking from a
purely veracious and wunprejudiced point of view, it
aint fur fetched from being any other kind of year.
A professor of journalism in a girls’ school down in
the Empire State, where peaches are prepared for
home use through a process of education, assigned
this subject as a fitting theme for a feature story.
Dear Professor, send your cubs round this way!
We have ought to whisper-in her ear! If this year
don’t quit being Leap Year pretty soon there won't
be a vestige left of this noble old educational institu-
tion. You don’t see why? Well, here’s a fair example
of a style of supplicatory letters received by David-
sonian during the good year 1924:

Any Girls’ School, ,
Ne uy Any old time, 1924.
My dear and most respected Sir,

I send you this your love to stir. ’Tis you I have
chosen first of all on whom to make a leap year call.
I give to you the fairest chance, that you may quickly
make advance. I do not ask yout heart in jest, and
I trust you'll grant this one request. Send me back
without delay cither the answer yea or nay. Now
please be prompt in your reply and let me be yours
till I dic. Yet, if for me there is no hope, then send
to me five yards of rope.

With every kind of love and kisses,
From one who wants to be your “Missus,”
Just a Real Good Girlie.

And do you expect the human race to remain sin-
gle? Paul Price had sworn a sacred swear that he
would travel the way of life single handed, and that
when it was all over he would go to Heaven, where
all is perfect, so that he would not he bothered with
feminine faces. Paul received a letter as quoted
above. The lure of the peach crop was a magnetic
force, and Paul hesitated in his anti-mama campaign.
The redoubtable character asserted itself and Paul
penned the following answer to the siren-letter, swear-
ing another sacred swear that Leap Year would
never lure him to destruction, and that the fascinating,
enticing wiles of the generally regarded irresistible
Woman, would never draw him onto the treacherous
reef of matrimony:

Davidson College,
The Sooner the Better.
My Precious darling little Miss,

I wish that I your lips might kiss in token that I
grant the plea which you so lately made to me. But,
soft! It is not meet nor just that I should ere mislead
you thus, for though I want you to be mine, I can not
ere be wholly thine, as I, in part, do love another.
Why not let me be thy brother? For like my proto-
type St. Paul (though I will not deny thee all) I do
not think that I shall wed a girl, I'll take light wines
instead. Although they both intoxicate, the wine's
effects will soon abate; while if a woman I should
wed, 1 am undone until I'm dead!

Hysterically,

Pablo.
Post Scriptum :
It took great thought to thus decide.
I trust you will not suicide.
But since I cannot give you hope
IEnclosed you'll find a bit of rope.
Ditto.
There you have it, ladies and gentlemen. Follow

the example of Paul the Pablonian, and save the
species. Pullin’ in single harness is so much sweeter
than double teaming.

Whoopee
And while we are speaking of the ill-fated annum
we may as well place several other names before the
public. To date Otis Brenner leads the field in mail
proposals. Ben Ratchford’s total of five appeals is not
far behind Brénner’s seven. Tom Barr is not doing
badly, and Johnnie Selser and Chester Monk are heart-
broken over the one post-card proposal they have got-
ten between them. Harry Blue has lately entered the
field with a couple, but he states to the Davidsonian
that he doubts if they really meant Jit.
‘W hoopee——

It is with assorted and mingled feelings that the
enticing missives are received by the local shieks. In
many instances there is an expressed sympathy for the

‘dear old things. In some cases there is a resentment
of the. bold effrontery of the wily shebs.

Whoopee
Certain members of the faculty, it is understood,

have received said missives with a paternal spirit and

with the kindest of feelings for the feminine cute

things.

—PUP.

Open Forum

(This department is conducted by the editor, for the
benefit of those members of the student body, or faculty,
who desire to express their opinions on amy matter which
might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of
the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted
for the betterment of campus life, and that the students
will express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted
discussion on campus problems. The names of the, writers
will be withheld from publication, if such is the desire of
the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor
of The Davidsonian by 7:00 p. m. Monday.)

Improvement

The beginning of a new term marks another mile-
stone in college life and opéns the door for new
avenues of endeavor. The fact that examinations are
behind and a clear road is ahead should prove an asset
to those engaged in the many varied activities of col-
lege life.

The spring term with its so-called fever, brings with
it the strong desire to engage in outdoor sports. Ac-
cording to the present prospects Davidson’s record in
baseball, track, and tennis will be far above the aver-
age this year. This will furnish an opportunity for
many of the new men to show their ability in these
lines.

The realm of the forensic art holds yet other oppor-
tunities for anyone interested in showing his prowess
as a speaker. Two inter-collegiate debates are already
scheduled for this term, in addition to the Freshman
debates that have been arranged.

The new term finds the editors and business man-
agers of the various college publications working hard
to put their tasks over in first-class shape.

~ « A beckward glance at the past term’s successes and
failures may profit to the degree of helping each man
do his part that this new term may be one of the very
best in Davidson’s history. —26.
