6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 6, 1924

Mrs. Frazer Hood Is

of Natives In Island of West Indies

Seekers of Booze Crowd Ships
Bound Away from These
Arid States to Freer
Climes

“Poverty and booze” sums up in two
words the impressions which Mrs. Frazer
Hood received in a month’s tour of the Car-
ribean Sea. The “poverty” refers to the
living condition& of the island natives, and
“booze” to the beverage always demanded by |
the thirsty crowd from the States which
thronged the decks of the Empress of
Britain.

On the trip, Mrs. Hood met the high diver
whe doubled for Pearl White in one of her
sensational pictures, The Virgin's Paradise,

‘filmed in the Bahamas. They started talking
about prohibition and booze, the most popular
topic of conversation on shipboard, and the
diver ‘said that she never drank until pro-
hibition came in, but that now she enjoyed
herself with the rest.

Mrs. Hood also talked to a druggist from
a Connecticut town, who was unable to drink
at home because appearances, but who
took a trip once in a while to break loose.
The great preponderance of men on the pas-
senger list made her believe that liquor was
the chief attraction the West Indies had for
the majority,

ot

The ‘weather was ideal, and Mrs. Hood and
her two sisters enjoyed themselves fully.
Mrs. Hood, who is a good sailor, wished for
a little rough weather to heighten the pleas-
ure, but it failed to materialize.

The plant and bird life
Hood greatly.

interested Mrs,
The tropical flowers, the
hibiscus and oleander hedges and the brilliant
coloring of the other flowers made a picture
never to be forgotten. Mrs. Hood hunted
on the islands for a weaver bird's nest. Just
as she was returning to the ship she caught
a glimpse of one through her field glasses,
the only one she saw.

The party sampled all the tropical fruits—
good, bad and indifferent—which practically
fill the menu of the poor natives. A good
wage for men is 60 cents, and the women are
paid 40 cents for their services in the sugar
cane fields. At some of the islands where
modern coaling facilities are lacking, the
women coaled the ship, carrying the coal bal-
anced on their head in large baskets.

Like Doctor Hood, professor of psychol-
ogy, Mrs. Hood takes a keen interest in
people everywhere. She was especially struck
by the differences in the speech, habits. and
characteristics of the negroes in the French
and British colonies. In the French colonies
the negroes speak French, imitate the French
in every way, and have the same nervous and
vivacious manner. In islands under British
rule, the negroes speak perfect English, and
resemble the British in their manners. One
afternoon the party stopped in their after-
noon sight-seeing walk to drink some green
cocoanut juice. The price of the drink was
sixpence. Mrs. Hood found that she had
only a dime. The vender of cocoanut juice
refused to accept it. The guide turned to
her and said in perfect English: “That in-
dividual is so ignorant that he won't take an
American dime.”

Trinidad is the great melting pot of the
Carribean. There Mrs, Hood saw every type
of people—Asiatics, Africans, and Eu-
Topeans, English influence was everywhere
in evidence. At St. Pierre on the island of
Martinique, Mrs. Hood collected some scraps
from the ruins of the old earthquake which
are still evident.

The mountains on the islands came as a
distinct surprise to Mrs. Hood. The hills
were all covered with tropical verdure and
even in February the summer-like heat was
oppressive. Mrs. Hood enjoyed the Bahamas

Stereopticon Lecture |

Shows Imperial Egypt |

. B. ambiia: Speaks on Re-|
pT Civilization of Ancient

Egypt

Struck By Poverty

eet novel canes made from the backbone of
}a shark, tigerwood and marblewood.

Mrs. Hood also visited the crystal cave |
'where Annette Kellerman’s famous picture,
Neptune's Daughter, was made. Mrs. Hood
pies a bull fight in Havana by one day,' night, February 26th. Rev.
| but saw a cock fight on the trip. inv whorhasnlone. peel! a
| The trip which occupied 29 days from Biblical Archeology, has
|New York to New York, included stops at returned from a tour of the Bible lands. |
Havana, Kingston, the Canal Zone, ports in | In speaking of the remarkable civil-|
, Columbia and Venezuela, Trinidad, the Bar-| 5) bi4n of ancient Egypt, Rev. Mr. Lamb-!
| bados, Martinique, the Virgin Islands, San diy Gate Qe eee iyvdle mat has

| Juan, Porto Rico, the Bahahams, and the discovered the history of Egypt he has
Bermudas. found a well-advanced civilization. No
one has been able to trace the history of
this great nation back to its beginning.
At the earliest date that anyone has
heen able to fix in Egyptian history, we
find Egypt to be already a great nation
among the ancient peoples. She was
great in the construction of magnificent

“Egypt, the)

Rev. M. B.|

on Tuesday
Mr. Lamb-
student of

illustrated lecture on
Imperial,” was given by
Lambdin, in Shearer Hall

An

as as

Doctor Moore Speaks

Of Call To Service

President of Union Theological
Seminary Addresses Vesper

buildings and huge monuments; in the

Services governments and conquests of her

pe Pharaohs, and in her works of art.

John t:go-41, “One of the two which Egypt was truly an imperial nation of
heard John speak, and followed him, Pmivalaits (HALAL,

was Andrew, Simon Peter’s brother, He — -pyo pictures which Rev. Mr. Lambdin

first findeth his own brother Simon, and) eq to illustrate and supplement his

saith unto him, ‘We have found the) tecture Werenoh unusual interecneand

Messiah." This was the text used by vatue, They included views of the official

Dr. W. W. Moore, president of Union | jnening of the tomb of King Tut, some

Theological Seminary, in his address at) of which Rev. Mr. Lambdin snapped

the Y. M. C. A. vesper service Sunday) with fis own camera and which were

ILL shown for the first time in this lecture.

He showed remarkable views of the
Pyramids, the ruins at Luxor and Kar-
nak, the Sphinx, the statues of Rame-
ses II, the island of Philae, the tombs of
Kings, and the mummified remains of the
zreat Fharaohs,

Doctor Moore, in his opening remarks,
called attention to the of Saint
Andrew, of the distinct forms of
crosses, and Saint Andrews as the patron
saint of Scotland. He pointed out that |
while the traditions in regard to An-
drew’'s burial in Scotland may be purely |
fictional, yet the fact that such traditions
grew up concerning him furnishes evi- |
dence that he was a great man.

Cross
one

ACTION PASSED BY. TRUSTEES

; ; ; Continued from page 1
‘But Andrew was no writer. Like his j ( he ae )
x } if more likely to succeed in their ‘efforts. At
Master, all his teaching was by oral, Tesaliti Lerernre three loca leeacuctine ie
methods. He wrote his Gospel on the | a 3 Seeds 8

tionals, and this recent action will assist them
in their undertaking. Within the next few
f years other fraternities will’ be established
at Davidson, and crowding will no longer be
necessary.

hearts ofthe people.
statesman,

He was no poet, no
but he did a great deed. He
did one thing that made him worthy o
all the praise given him, He brought
his brother to Christ.

“Andrew was not only the first mem-

|the assurance of her victories.

just recently | {most surely his by right of ability. A further

turn debate for the one held at Davidson

each are not in a position to be compared.

ed: forward to, and there is little doubt but |
of these men holding high the banner of |
Davidson which rarely knows defeat in this |
line.

DEBATES FOR EMORY AND

TRINITY CONTESTS

SHOWING AT
DAVIDSON
MONDAY, MARCH 17th

T?LOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN

(Continued from page 1)

| Davidson shall enter these two debates

and

L. D. Elkins was unfortunately confined
|to the infirmary at the time of the debate,
but upon his reputation and ability as a
speaker, as voiced in his debate against Trin-
ity last year, the preliminary deboters voted
to award Eikins a place on the team as was

| vote by the contestants cut the time limit of
the speakers from 12 to nine minutes. H<«.w-
ever, a special reservation was made to this
in that Walthall was permitted the use of
tho whole of the 12 minutes.

The meeting held in Shearer was pre-
sided over by P. C. Henderson, and the
judges of the debate were Dr. T. W. Lingle,

The DINNER SUIT

Dr. J. H. McConnell, Dr. E. F. Shewmake, Deponarr, comfortable,
Prof. A. Currie, and Prof. C. K. Brown. tattered Sernaerve care ding

py were i » seven 5 nsst 5 from by ex-
They were to pick the seven successful de bs ees Seer Stextend,
baters, and afterwards they are to be di- to the price.

vided up into the respective teams.
The debate with Trinity is to be bekd in
Durham, N. C., on April 14th, and is + re-

DINNER SUIT
(Shawl collar or notch)

$39.50

last year in which Davidson won a pote Manufactured and sold exclusively by
mous decision over Trinity. The Emory de- | NATLUXENBERG«&Bros.
bate is to be held at Queens College, Char- ! New address

lotte, N. C., on April 11th. This is the first |] 241 Broadway, Bagh Mexthinhoate
debate between Davidson and Emory in a

number of years and the forensic ability of Branches:

177 Broadway, New York City.
231 Water St., Exeter, N. H.
863 Broad St., Newark, N. J.

Our style-memo. book will be sent
free on request.

It is with interest that these meets are look- |

CENTRAL HAT SHOP
and

MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB

Dyeing Dry Cleaning
Shoe Shine.In Connection
Largest Oldest Best

8 E. Trade St. CHARLOTTE

Pressing

ber of the Christian Church, but he was
also the beginner of missionary work,
of bringing others to Him. This is the
reason he has such influence over the
people of the earth,

“We learn to value our own apprecia-
tion for deliverances from sin in the,
joy we receive in bringing others to the!
Deliverer Just as if we were in a large!
company in a desert country and dis-
covered a fountain or spring of water, |
we would call others to drink of the)
waters, so having received the gift of
deliverance from sin, we must find great
pleasure in leading others to the Foun-}
tain of Strength that saved us.

Doctor Moore gave five characteristics
which are essentials of a successful min-
ister: “Christian experience is necessary
if you are to lead others to your belief.
An average capacity or mentality is re-
quired of one who is to lead his people.
This capacity may be cultivated.

“The’ minister, to reach his audience
and have effect. on them, must know
something of speaking.”

“The fourth requisite is
sense. The fifth is energy,
work, force of character,
leadership.”

In conclusion the speaker said that
the Christian man who had the above
qualifications should give serious thought
to the Gospel ministry.

O. J. Allison led the song service, An-)
gus McBryde read the Scripture and in-

common |
desire to
capacity of |

and Bermudas best because the temperature| troduced the speaker, and Wallace
was cool. In the Barbadoes she collected Purdy was pianist.
CHARLOTTE — MOORESVILLE — STATESVILLE
WHITE BUS LINE |
Leaves Charlotte
A. M. A. M. P.M. P.M. § |
wi Chatlotte:=2 25 2s. ose 22 7:30 10:30 1:00 5:30 |
Huntersville -. ---. ---. -__- 8:10 11:10 1:40 6:10 $ |
Cornelius .--= 2225 -2c) Laie 8:25 11:25 1:55, 6:25 H
Davidson =. 2222 222. Le 8:30 11:30 2:00 6:30
Mooresville -__. - 8:45 11:45 2:15 6:45
Troutman -_ 9:15 12:15 2:50 7:15
Statesville 9:30 12:30 3:05 7:30
es Statesville |
A. M. A. M. P. M. P. M.
» Statesville ---. ---. _.. Ser 8:00 10:00 2:00 4:30
Troutman we is 8:15 10:15 2:15 4:45
. Mooresville -. ---. 22.2. - > Lbs $0:80 Zits £310
en a Se ee 5:30
Huntersville -. enaoranes 9:20 11:20 3:20 5:45
Charlotte --.. -... --.. --.. . 10:00 . 12:00 4:00 6:30 ;
By eon For Further Information See Driver
S.. : inhale M68 inhalant Larthoed oat caine bot oan keh clereich Bon eth hs eS Banc neeh toe a

Every spring the
several h ee Pe
available supply.

ately, to avoi

Coma eniony.

SS _ See ;
ae a ad

a
—-~ |
Cc a

Starter and Demountable
Rims, $85 extra

‘295

F.0.B,
DETROIT

BUY NOW!

demand for Ford Cars is
red thousand greater than the
Place your order immedi-

delay in delivery.

NOTE: A small payment down pu
your name on the preferred delivery lis tise.

See the Nearest Authorized Ford Dealer

Do ea

ess pepe tae
