4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 9, 1924

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of wsdl Cala

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the Rone a “the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAIN
KENNETH S, McALPIN

|

Gu Managing Editor
W. E. MILTON --Assistant Managing Editor
Cc. F, MONK... -Assistant Managing Editor
A. F. SIMPSON --e-Peanut Parcher Editor
ii A, LAKE... «---Associate Editor

. B. PRICE .-Associate Editor
H. L. SHAW. .-Associate Editor
G. D. ROGERS. ---Alumni Editor
L. D. WHARTON---2.22-._- -Athletic Editor

Business Staff

.---Circulation Manager
Subscription Manager

...-. Bookkeeper
.-Service Manager
Typist

_M. GARRISO
Vv. H. LYNCH.

"CLUB

R. H. McILWAINE
» MeMILTAN

y. P. OCONNOR
He B, PARKER

TS
:U. RATCH FORD
THOMPSON

bi 0. WHARTON
W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

Back our fighting Wildcat team.
D

The thin Red line held Richmond. safe
while the Younger punch «in the backfield
carried the ball over for the Wildcat score.

D ‘

For the first time since 1917 a Wildeat
grid team has won three straight games—
Elon, P. C., and Richmond.

D

In ‘17 the Wildcats wound up their season
by beating V. M. 1., Furman, Auburn, Wake
Forest, Wofford, and Clemson.

D
The next three games are Wofford, Lenoir

and Furman. The Red and Black machine
is fighting for another six in a row.
D
The first month’s reyiews have been with
us during the past week, but their shadow

has almost passed and we can breathe easily
once more,

mr.

ae

D

J

The second month is the crucial period of
the term. Those who fell behind have a

| decry

chance to come to the front, but those who |

fail to do so will have a hard row to travel
till the end of the term.

D

The musical and dramatic organizations
at Davidson are starting off with a rush.
The band is practicing hard and gives prom-
ise of being the best in several years. The
Glee Club has been organized and is getting
in trim for Georgia and Virginia trips. The
dramatic club will present a one-act play as
a feature of the Stunt Night program next
week,

COME OUT TOMORROW NIGHT

HE Johnston C. Smith University
quintet and orchestra comes here to-
morrow night in behalf of the Dazid-
sonian, The singers, better known as the
Biddle quintet, staged two performances on
the local platform last year. The repertoire
includes the best negro spirituals and mel-
ody, and orchestral pieces.

Biddle has always been well received at
Davidson, and their entertainments have
been enjoyed by all who attended them.
This year the concert is for a special cause.
A debt of ever three hundred dollars was
left on the Davidsonian by the retiring bus-

iness staff. There is a ruling of the trustees -

that no publication can be continued until

the debts of the preceding year have been

paid. There is also a ruling that no solicita-
‘tion can be made among the students.

These two rules made it necessary for the
Davidsonian to use some other plan to make |
up the-deficit. As a result the concert to-

morrow night was scheduled, the proceeds -

to go entirely toward the wiping out of the
debt. If the whole student body attends to-
morrow night’s concert the debt will be
entirely wiped out. Upon the attendance
depends the success of the Davidsonian this
year.

IRRESPONSIBILITY

The accusation that the college man is
incurably irresponsible is often made in cor-
relation with the statement that the modern
college student, or rather inmate, is sadly
deficient in scholarship. Both
are made in most cases after an only super-
ficial glance into college life and conditions.

Itresponsibility is an evil which ‘is not
confined to any class or division of society,
and there undoubtedly evidence of it
among college men—hut is it as pronounced
an evil as the older generation would have
us believe ?

College is a very different place from what
it was a generation ago, In the past fifty
years its activities have multiplied to an al-
most unbelievable extent. If the average
college man were transported back to the
life of fifty years ago jit is doubtful if he
would survive the shock—the absence of
diversion,

assertions

is

To the man of fifty years ago, college was
a place where the perusal and mastery of
hooks was the whole beginning and end of
existence, At least, in his criticism of pres-
ent day college life that is what he would
have us believe. However, it seems to us
that the same types of diversion must have
had some play, then, although in varying
degrees.

The life of Edgar Allen Poe is a striking
refutation of the statement that college life,
then, was Utopian, while now it has de-
generated into a four-year period of waste
and dissipation, Was the college man any
more responsible then than now ?

It is true.that a smaller percentage of men
were able to secure the advantages of an
education in the early days, and a college
degree was less common than now, but al-
lowing for the increased range from which
colleges draw their enrollment, college men
are no less responsible than formerly.

Where there is no extra-curricular activ-
ity, the student has to have some other di-
version from his books, and so the diversion
usually was along harmful lines. Now, di-
version of a helpful nature is provided, and
this tends to lessen the harmful reaction
which comes from excessive work,

Much of the observation of these who
collegiate irresponsibility is made
when the college man is enjoying diversion
from work. The ability to free one’s self
from responsibility while enjoying recrea-
tion is an asset rather than a liability. Al-
lowance should be made for the pleasures of
youth,

Responsibility is a necessary asset to any
one who enters into campus activities. The
managers of teams, players on teams, stu-
dent body and class officers, editors, and
business managers have responsibility heap-
ed upon their shoulders, Their work does
not end with their‘class room assignments.

The irresponsibility of youth is present to
a cértain extent, but who would have a boy
miss his youth. The college man of today
is irresponsible in certain ways but in others
he has advanced beyond his predecessors.

Responsibility must be shouldered before
a boy can take his place in the ranks of men.
Work both in the class room and out of it
is necessary in its development, Faithfulness
in whatever the work in hand is the mark of
the assumption of responsibility.

We need to assume the responsibility
placed upon us so as to fit ourselves to face
the world and be men, Whether the college
man of today is criticized too harshly or
not, there is always room for improvement.
Tet us face the facts.

PSYCHOLOGICAL TESTS

The annual psychological tests for new
men in the student body have been held, and
the results will be announced in the next
issue of the Davidsonian. The work of making
out statistical reports of averages and per-
centages is not vet completed.

While no test can be absolutely fair to all,
because of the difference. in early environ-
ment, the grades on this test will give a fair
indication of the ability of the Freshmen.
Some may have worked hard on it, while
others loafed on the test but on the whole,
the men with the higher grades have the
greater ability.

The grades attained on these tests do not
show what station any man will reach in

| college life. They merely show the poten-
tialities and possibilities in his mental make-
up. Thev fail to take into consideration the
| social and moral side of life and these exer-
| cise a great influence on the success or fail-
| ure of any one.

Open Forum

Chaff

(This department is conducted the editor, for the
benefit of those members of the a ent body, or faculty,
who desire to express their opinions on any matter which
might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of
the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted
for the betterment of campus life, and that the students
will express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted
discussion on campus problems. The names of the writers
will be withheld from publication, if such is the desire of
the writer. All articles’ must be handed in to the Editor
of The Davidsonian by 7:00 p. m. Monday.)

THOSE WHO PAY
When disputes

and the laborer, the participants in the discussion

big arise between capitalist

sometimes seem to forget that there is a third

party—the public. When a person picks up a
newspaper, magazine or any other periodical, he
reads, thinks of the pleasure it has afforded him,
forgets that besides

lays it aside and sometimes

himself and the publishers there is aa third party

vitally interested in the publication—the adver-
tisers. They are the men who make the paper
possible. Without them a publication cannot

function, Some people may have the far-fetched

idea that through subscriptions - the newspaper or

Magazine gets its means of sustenance, but the

amount of income from that source is a mere

pittanee compared with the total sum necessary
to operate.

In the same measure that advertisements play
an important part in the big newspapers and mag-

azines, in a

similar manner they play a great
part in the Davidsonian, Were it not for the
business men advertising, we could not present
to the students of Davidson, alumni and other
readers the paper which is the best in) North
Carolina by actual vote and coneeded by many
to merit the appellation of “the best in the

South.”

Since advertising means so much to the David-
sonian, it only right and just that Davidson
students should be patronizers of those concerns
which patronize our college weekly. When the
Davidsonian is read the students should not only
read the news matter but Sfiould read the adver-
tisements—not merly glance at them, but read
them with interest—see who is advertising in the
Davidsonian, and what is being advertised.

1s

It is not an easy matter to obtain advertisments.
The business man views advertising in a business -
like manner—what will it profit him and his con-
cern, You cannot appeal to him successfully on
sentiment. Sentiment and business do not mix.
Occasionally an alumnus of Davidson is found with
a business in this section, but that rare, and
appealing for advertising on lines of loyalty for
the alma mater cannot be used. The solicitor for
advertising has to assume the attitude of business
man toward business man. What will T get in
return if advertise? Will Davidson men patron-
ize me? Do they read the advertisements? These
and many other questions, sometimes difficult for
the seckers of advertising to answer, come from
the man with the keen, alert business mind.

1s

Chaflotte and other nearby places have always
responded in a splendid manner with advertising.
The business men have been drained for all kinds
of advertisements, Fortunately, this year steps
were taken making it a violation of the consti-
tution of the Davidson student body for
to seek advertisements except for specifically
stated publications necessary for the Davidson in’

anyone

terest. An outsider obtained advertising for a
blotter to be printed, but this was outside the
jurisdiction of the student body and no action

could be taken. The rule limiting the solicitation

, of advertisements was made to protect the bus-

iness men of nearby cities—to lessen the constant
requests for advertisements, and _ still
vertisements.

more ad-
Davidson students have a chance
their loyalty to the Davidsonian
the publication’s advertisers. When the business
man sees that he is getting returns for money
expended in this maner, in that same measure
will he be willing to enlarge his space and more
gladly greet the solicitors when approached.
Read the advertisements, patronize the adver-
tisers, and benefit the Davidsonian—W. S. M.

of showing

by patronizing

Moral stamina which enables a man to
stick to his work and develop his potential-
ities to the limit, is the controlling force in
success—whatever the line of activity may
be. The mere presence of ability is worth-
less unless its value is realized and it is de-
veloped.

Whatever grade we may have made on
these tests—for every boy in school has been
tested—the question which should concern
us is whether we have developed our powers
to the highest extent. If not—and who of
us has not fallen down in some point—our
course is set-befere us. We must strive ever
onward, making the most of what life has
given us so as to be able to face death.

Like one who wraps the draperies of
his couch

About him, and lies down to pleasant
dreams.

\

ous ©
The following letters are copies that have been

written home by some of the new boys. Some

of them have already had several spells. of home-
sickness, but only a few cases have been fatal:
davidson, N. c¢.
Monday.
Dear Ma,

L arrived safe and sound hear last

We
liked not to have caught the train because ole

Tuesday.

maude got to balking and we had to: walk the

last eighteen miles, and if we had not started

the day we did we never would have gotten there.

I wish vou and Pe and Sal and Willie and Amic
and Joe and Peg could be up hear to see every-
All of the

rooms one right on top of the other, and there

thing. buildings have three or four
are lots of rooms above the others in every build-
ing,

the

Everytime a girl comes on the yard well all

boys start calling “Fire” and the first time

I heard it I like to have hurt myself getting down
to the ground floor because T thought something
was burning up but was only a good looking girl
Well,

Bible so as [T wont get shot.

talking to some boys. I have to stop and

Write to

me soon, and tell me how Rover and my hog is.

study my

your son,
Frank Ebey.

Jaybirdsville, N.C.
Sunday nite

my darling sweatheart,
i hav ben

you dont no how much i miss you.

thinking of you ever sense i left you their at the
station, Did you ever get to home all right? 1
was worried because you never no what will hap-
pen in these dangorus times. Wy. i was up to the
liberry, that is wher all the newspapers is kep.

and on the front paige of won of them it said

where sum gurl in new York wuz robed and nerly
killed by a man just because she wouldnt give him

all her money. T am not going back to read any

more because a lady came in their an asked me
to take my hat off and if I could not stop chew-
ing terbaccer an putting my feet on the table and
spittin on the floor to stay out, an she maid me
mad, because I wuz only spittin up in a dark
corner wher it cant show, and i didnt get any on
the wall either. there is the funniest feller up
hear you ever seed. His name is Oaky Allison
and thinks he can sing but he cant and it makes
me latf to see him do it. Won nite he wuz set-
tin on the steps singin Sweet addled Iron and a
houn dorg somewhers way off started cryin just
like ole Towzer duz wen deacon Sedberry starts
ter singing Swing loe, sweat charut. say, hortense,
do you reely luve me? You no i am crazy about
you, an i wood dye if you didnt like me. write to
me soon and with a kiss on both cheeks and i
hope to dye if i dont luve you.
your luvin,
Voel Rustum.

Much interest is being taken in a contest which
is being carried on by two would-be sons of old
Davidson. The contest is in the form of a bath-
taking race. It is being run between Spider Webb
and Streteched-Out Shelby. The results will be
printed cach week. At present Shelby is leading
I to oO.

Yesterday in a certain class the teacher asked
cach student if he owned a bok, and if he did not
if he had the use of one. When he came to one
J. P. Gladney, the following was uttered for his
benefit: “Captain, I don’t possess one but IT have
one at my disposal.”

taking a
They were

A certain stage door Johnnie
Follies girl out to dinner one night.

Was

seated in a side-street’ restaurant, waiting on
their order when he said to her: ‘Honey, are
you thirsty?” To which she replied: “Yes.”

“Hey, waiter, bring this lady a glass of water.”
The

lady: “T said I was thirsty, not dirty.”

I had a litle tea-party

This afternon at three.

‘Twas very small—

Three guests in all

Just I, myself, and me.
Myself ate all the sandwiches
While I drank up the tea.
‘Twas also I who ate the pie -
And passed the cake to me.

The idea of slow motion pictures was invented
by a fellow who happened to see two Scotchmen
reaching for the lunch-check after the meal.
