4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 24, 1924

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

n Collegiat
Association

L +h

M of S Press

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE...--.--------- Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN..-.--.--- Business Manager

Editorial Staff

Goce MUL acssnsesssccsnsnpusccunaenanatnen Managing Editor |
W. E. MILTON. .-Assistant Managing Editor |
C. F. MONK --Assistant Managing Editor |
J. M. SELS -----Athletic Editor |
A. Fs nut Parcher Editor ,
ij A, LAKE -Associate Editor |
H. B. PRICE -Associate Editor |
H. L. SHAW... -Associate Editor
GeDISROGERS Par Aeeseies eee een eee eae Alumni Editor |
Business Staff |
J. A. THOMPSON Circulation Manager
2 AS CSEWAIN “Subseription Manager
W. Ht. “LYNCH. Su agentes ees ones beak ie |

REPORTERS’ CLUB
L. B. GIBBS, Pres R. H. McILWAINE

D. G. WILSON, V.-Pres. G. McMILLAN

A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas. I; E. MOORE

. M. APPLEBY {. P, O'CONNOR

1, M. AUSTIN R. B. PARKER |
W. H. BRANC R. Y. PITTS

W._T, COVINGTON B. U. RATCHFORD

J. M. GARRTI 2. K. REGEN

FE. K. REGE?
mn) THOMPSON
:. D. WHARTON
W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

Junior Week with all its pleasures has
come and gone, and classes have been re-
vived once more.

J. M. GARRISON
A. If, HOLLINGSWORTH
W. H. LYNCH

Less than a month re- |
mains till exams begin, but the remaining |
time is a period of hard work for all. |
D

s

The Carolina game at Gastonia on Easter
Monday was a fitting conclusion to the
holidays. Carolina won in football and bas-
ketball after two hard battles, and even won
the Spanish debate, but Monk Younger’s
nine turned the trick in one of the most ex-
citing ball games ever staged in these parts.

D

Everything now is pointed for the Trinity
game on May 3rd. The 4-3 win over the
Blue Devils in Gastonia last spring, like the
Carolina game this year, was won in the
ninth, Pat Crawford last year, and Sion Al-
ford this season are the boys who did the
work, :

D- |

The following extract is clipped from the
Emory Wheel of April, 10: |

A Japanese to Edit Davidsonian |

Recent student elections at Davidson Col-
lege prove that there is no racial prejudice
there, and that a man is elected for his
ability and for what he has done rather than
for what he is.

C. M.S. (Chong) Mellwaine, of Koeli,
Japan, occupies the rank of chief-journalist
of Davidson by virtue of his success in the
Davidsonian election held recently.

D |

Because a man comes from America, he is
not necessarily an American, nor is a man
who comes from Japan necessarily a Japan- |
ese. Whenever a man is named “Mc,” it’s ten
chances out of nine that he is not a Japan-
ese, no matter where he comes from, The
Scotch are the ones who are usually in the
habit of using the name. 2

D

With Commencement only a month away,
the Seniors are completing plans for the oc-
casion of their departure. In everything
the Class of ’24 has had charge of, they have
had signal success. They put over a won-
derful Junior Week, last year; their work
along all lines has been constructive. When
they receiye their reward for four years of
work and go out into life, they will leave a
great record behind them.

D:

The eighth convention of the North Caro-
lina Collegiate Press Association will meet
at Elon College, May 1, 2, and 3. Liston
Elkins, who has been at the helm for the
“past year relinquishes his post.

the second president of the Association to

“Eikins is

oF
come from Davidson. J. Eris Cassell, ’21, is

the other man to hold the honor. The Press
Association has aided greatly in the develop-
ment of the college papers in the state, and
now Carolina publications are well up
among the leaders of the South. Elkins re-
linquished the editorship of the Davidson-
ian three weeks ago, and now will retire
from his office in the N. C. C. P. A. His
work in, both organizations will not soon be

forgotten.
N begin thinking of our work for the
summer, and even look into our plans

for the coming year. Some of us are leav-
ing Davidson for the last time, with our four

D:
WHAT NEXT?

OW that the year draws to a close, we

tion of campus activities, thereby providing
against overburdening one man with duties
he can not perform.

It ‘is not desired to make the plan too
restrictive because of the element of re-
ward attached to membership in the honor-
ary clubs, and yet it is necessary to make

| some prohibition because of the element of
| activity and service. The plan provides that
| membership be ‘limited to two clubs, Phi

| Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa ex-

cepted, giving a possible membership in four
honor organizations, but limiting it in a ma-
jority of cases to two or three.

| In the adoption of this plan, which will be

years, record—good, bad, or mediocre— |

printed indelibly on the pages of her history.

Others leave for a vacation to return
again in the fall for another year of college
life, with its varied activities. Still a third
class, leave in the middle of their college
course, with the best part of their college
life still in the future, without the intention
of returning.

- A college course is of inestimable value in
after life, At the vital period of a boy’s life
he is given training in college which no other
institution can give. College is merely a
stepping-stone to a successful life. In col-
lege, a man is given the theoretical knowl-
cdge which will later prove valuable in prac-
tice; in college, a man is taught to think, to
develop his mental! faculties to the utmost.

College is not merely attending classes,
eating three meals a day, studying at night
and turning in until the néxt morning. Col-
lege is far more than that. It offers a wide
field. Athletics, literary societies, publica-
tions, work of an executive character, all
have their place in training men, along with
the first requisite of scholarship. But great-
est of all, is the contact with the men who
will run things tomorrow, the men who will
be leaders, and the chance to mingle with
them on the highest. plane of friendship, All
these things are included in the term “col-
lege.”

lo you who are contemplating dropping
out of school and entering work: Would
it not be better to come back and finish your
college course? Would it not be better to
finish what you have started? A part of a
thing is worth far less in proportion than
the whole. Your one, two, or three years
will he worth far less to you than the four
year course, Each year in college means
more than the preceding year.

Some who are dropping out have good
reasons for not finishing, but the majority
who stop half-way do so from thoughtless-
ness. Thoughtlessness concerning those
things which they will lose as a result of
stopping. Figures show that they will lose
money by failing to graduate. But, in ad-
dition to the cash value of a college educa-
tion, there is the far more important mental,

physical, and moral training which college
gives.

Is the future worth sacrificing for present
pleasure or profit?

D:
THE WELL ROUNDED MAN

A tangible plan has been evolved by lead-
ers of campus activities for the government

and regulation of membership in honorary
societies. : :

This action, advocated some time ago in

the editorial columns of the Davidsonian and |

fostered by student body leaders, may be
regarded as one of the most valuable steps
taken by the student body this year. There

is clearly a need for regulation in some form, |

end the plan now being presented to the va- |

rious organizations for ratification is re-
garded as a practical and feasible one. Its
purpose is to limit membership in order that
“membership pools” be avoided. It is not
to the best interest of the organizations con-
cerned, or the men eligible for membership,
to allow one man to wear pins and keys of
every society and club on the hill. A man

can not keep faith with his fellow members
and remain in sympathy with the aims of
four or five organizations, even if their
standards are closely allied. Time and
energy will not permit it.

It is the purpose of the new plan to sup-

“plement: tire presenr point system in oppor-

tioning honors, and in insuring a distribu-

made public within the next two weeks,
there is a probability that the present evil of
over-organization will give place to a reg-
ulated organization which will be a powerful
factor for the development of the ”well-
rounded man.”

Speaking Spotlights

This is our paragraph about the rain

The

Class ’25 did do Junior Speaking up brown.

Piggy Martin is all right. He even bribed Jupe
Pluvious and got Speedy Car a girl. «+

The Junior Speeches were all that time and
effort could make them. One enthusiastic Fresh-
man tried to tell his room-mate why Piggy had
not won first place. “You see,” he said, “I
thought he’d won anyway but if he’d amade one
of his ‘funny’ speeches he’d awon hands down.”

We would run the dictionary drier than ever if
if we tried to find all the adjectives that could
be used in praise of the “Speaking’ girls. How-
ever the three P’s sum it up fairly well:

PLenTY; PRetTY; PEPPY.

By Jove Rogers told us that there were more
girls on the Hill this time than ever before. We
find that he made good use of this information for
besides bringing two girls up for his own private
use he had fourteen dates with fifteen different
girls. This is straight dope. Claimants for the
title of “Reddest and Blackest Shiek” will have to
heat that.

We have collected some random statistics about

the week-end:

Number of times the expression “What a w-o-n-
derful moon” was used 749,002.

Number of girls that did not think Junior Speak-
ing “the best ever,” 0.

Wear and tear on the golf course Friday, Satur-
“day, Sunday, $40,009.46 1-2.

Number of Boys that failed to find a new “flame”
among the “fire,” 69 (see note).

Collection taken tip by a poor blind gold-miner
from the boys after Speaking, $000.00.

Number of letters written home the next day, 526.

Note: They had gone home.

Our tame freshman comes in with the state-
ment that “Chick” McCrary’s girl got the “short-
est” fellow on the Hill.

Several of the fire came to the “Circus Ro-
manus” Saturday night armed to the teeth. They
were afraid that someone would throw the
chickens to the lions, oh, or-Wildcats. As it was
nothing was thrown*to the Wildcats but chicken
sandwiches.

When he found that the very trees that he
wanted to sit under Sunday afternoon were oc-
cupied by Freshmen and their mates, “Gene”
Regen rather regretted having turned them out
on the grass.

The Wildcat down at the gym attracted every-
one’s attention during the week-end, but nearly
every girl here was agreed that it was far more
soothing to feed fish to the college seal.

The returning brethren‘find that quite a few of
those that stayed for Speaking are burnt a beau-
tiful shade of red. No, it was not caused by

f proxmity t6 the radiance oft he sun but by
proximity to ....

Chaff

Upon the pages of History’s irrevocable time-
book, the careers of the noblest and most revered
In
the days to come the struggling Junior will hear
sung in ballad and praised in prose the laudations
of the noble lives lived by these great and simple
personalities while on the mud-ways and slush-

members of Class ’24 have been imprinted.

ways of dear old Davidson.

But as some peerless commentator has in-
evitably phrased it “Man is judged not by his line
of acts but by the acts of his line.’ So with a
view toward the perpetuation of the present
Seniors into the halls of undying fame this pub-
lication has endeavored to obtain from each
Senior a few words of wisdom for the edification
of future Senior classes. A majority of the
Seniors were loathe to make any remarks but a
few, understanding the incalcuable benefits to be
conferred on countless thousands, repressed the

behests of modesty and prepared the following
extracts from their distilleries of wisdom:

STATEMENT PREPARED BY D. B.
WALTHALL

“Long years ago I appeared on the Davidson
campus a green and verdant freshman. Now, as
I leave the squeaks and crackles of old Shearer I
feel I may draw from my now ripened stock of
wisdom and leave a few words to the coming gen-
erations. As is my custom I shall give three
points which I have followed carefully and which
all will profit by following likewise. These are
(1) Cultivate a distinctive method of hairdressing
so as to stand out from the ‘hoi polloi.‘ (2) Always
make an announcement in chapel; it keeps you
before the public eye. (3) Impress the professors
with your vast knowledge and then never study.
An adoption of these will assure a successful
Senior year.”

STATEMENT BY C. M. DAVIS

“Literature is not my strong point. However,
‘Actions speak louder than words if not as loud
as Bull’ To achieve success combine the two:
Activity and Bull. Never neglect an opportunity
of doing something; whether good or bad; DO IT.
Never neglect an opportunity of playing the
toreador; whether good or bad; SAY IT, Bull,
action, and bull; but the greatest of these is
Bull.”

STATEMENT BY P. C. HENDERSON

“(The good die young, and before I breathe my
last let me leave this pearl of wisdom to the ris-
ing Seniors or whoever may recognize its worth.
1 say: ‘CRITICISM is the key to door of
progress. Hammer all things. When you find
that you have exhaused everything knockable
start something. yourself and knock that. The
critic is the great man, History has shown that
the Thor that wields the hammer rules the world.
History ever repeats itself. I have not read the
statements by these other fellows; but, they are
rotten, are they not?”

A BLANK STATEMENT IN BLANK
VERSE BY OUR BLANKEST POET
The candle of my college days burneth low

The winds sob sob ..
My heart cries forth in synchrony

A cloud
Vermillion green of sorrow dims my eyes .
darkly darkly
One light I see Upon the pinnacle of
thought rises
that silver flash.
I grope .

It is gone
comes again
GONE There it is
Ah I have it. In the cover of end-
less darkness is this gem of rays FULL blown.
I Iky = Gog vo
the two headed dove of Fellowship. he
giving of self and soul to the comradship
with fellow Man.
of life devoted to friend-

Full . time
ship. friendship.
THAT is this gleam, this gem
this thought.
perfect
WATT MCcCAIN’S ADVICE TO RISING
SENIORS
As Told to N. O. Pocobullo
“Me? Give rising seniors the dope on how I
succeeded?

“Well, I dunno. My policy has always been to
let things slide and to slide with them. A roll-
ing stone, you know . Yeh, you won't find
any moss on me.

“So, you.want some advicefor the boys . . .
Tell them this:

Let the wild, wild women be
Also drinks that aren’t free
And if your ‘line’ to rhyme descends
Or follows these new blank verse trends
Don’t write these crazy songs like
me.”
