TH

EDAVI

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. c MARCH 6, 1924

SONIAN

Wildcat Quint Wins Ten
Out of Eighteen Games

Rcd and “lack Five Wins Eight Out
of First Eleven Contests But
S!umps Toward End

STALEY LEADS SCORING

After Los'ng Five Straight Games
Wildcats Take Two Final En-

gagements of Year

Davidson closed her 1924 basketball sched-
ule of 18 games in the local gymnasium last
Thursday with a 44 to 13 victory over the
Statesville Athletic Club,-making a total of
ten victories and eight losses for the season.
Likegall Davidson teams, this year's quintet
Was invincible at home, losing two of the
nine games played on the local court. The
only college team to secure a decision at the
Davidson gym was the Wake

fast Forest

tive. Charlotte “Y," with its 37 to 23 vic-
tory, rendered to Davidson her other home
defeat.

In the first 11 games of the season, Coach
Younger'’s cohorts emerged victorious in
eight, losing to Charlotte “Y,” Carolina and
Trinity in Charlotte. The next five games
were defeats at the hands of Wake Forest,
twice, Charlotte “Y,” State, and Guilford.
The last two games of the season, against
Belmont at Belmont, and Statesville A. C.
were victories.

Davidson's total score for the season was
552 points as against the 480 counters of
her opponents. Of the 552 points, 356 were
chalked up in the first 11 games against 179
by her opponents, for an average of 32 points
to the game. After her victory over the fast
and furious South Carolina quint, the Wild-
cats suffered a slump in which her opponents
outscored her 221 to 196, Five of Davidson's
eight defeats came in these games, during
the slump.

In games played with college teams, David-
son won five and lost six, failing by 12
points to equal their opponents, who scored
328 points to the Wildcats’ total of 316.
Charlotte “Y” was the only non-college team
to take the Cats in and Davidson outscored
non-college teams, composed of old college
stars, 236 to 152. Of these games, Davidson
won five and lost two.

Of the first string men, only four played
in every game.
ward, counted for 176 points and led the |
team in scoring. Laird, the sorrel-topped
lad from Decatur, was nevt in scoring hon-
ors with a total of 147 points. Of 29 at-
tempts at goals after foul, he sunk 21 shots.
Captain Davis played a heady game and led

(Continued on page 2)

Staley, the reliable right for-|

Tom Baker Will

Be Toastmaster
At Soph Banquet

At meeting of the
class it was decided to have the annual Soph
banquet in Charlotte at the Chamber of Com-
merce, This banquet is to be held at 7:00
p.m. on Thursday, March 13th. Tom Baker
was clected toastmaster.

A committee consisting of E. M. Regen,
chairman; Frank Hudson, Shaw, Minter,
and Bouvier, has been hard at work on the
plans for this banquet for some time. Tick-
ets are to be sold to the members of the
for nominal price. These tickets
cover the expenses of the plate, decorations,
programs, and favors, but each individual
has to pay for and arrange his own trans-

a recent Sophomore

class a

portation.

Besides the Soph class several members
of the faculty and prominent men in the
other classes Will be present and give
speeches,

After the banquet the class will probably
attend the Imperial in a body. The manager
has promised to rope off a section for them,

The Soph class has been doing everything
in its power to make its banquet the best
one that has ever been held by
Davidson. An abundance of good things io
eat and a fine time is promised to all who
attend,

a class at

Jones Represents Local
Chapter at Convention

National Convention of Omicron
Delta Kappa Meets at Kentucky
Institution

The National Convention of the Ontieren
Delta Kappa, Honorary Leaders Praternity,
met at Centre College, DanvilleKy., at 8:00
p. m., February 22nd. R. R. Jones repre-
sented the local chapter./There were pres
ent at the convention d@legates from all nine

circles of the ‘society, as well as President
W. M. Brown, Vice-president A. G. Wil-
liams, Publicity Secretary H. D. Cotton, and

Treasurer J. H. Hewlett.

On the evening of Friday, February 22nd,
the reports of the officers were given, and
several committees were appointed io facih-
On Satur-

formaily

{

tate the work of the convention.
ley morning. the convention was
opened with an address by President Mont-
gomery, of Centre College. The reports
|from the different circles were rendered by
the representatives, and suggstions in these
(Continued on page 7)

Neuen Passed By Trustees Will Allow
Fraternities to Build Chapter Houses

The fraternity situation at Davidson is
perhaps brighter now than it has ever been,
due to the recent action of the Board of Trus-
tees of Davidson College. The Board met
Wednesday, February 27th, and passed ac-
tion to allow the fraternities to build chapter
houses either on or: off college property, the
details to be left to the Faculty Committee
on Fraternities, and finally approved by the
Executive Committee of the Board of Trus-
tees.

Within the past year or two the acuteness
of the situation of fraternities has been
brought into the limelight more than ever be-
fore, augmented by the establishment of
several new fraternities. An agitation has
been going on for some time for better ac-
commodation for the fraternities, and this
agitation has culminated in the recent action
of the Board of Trustees.

Many details will be connected with the
building of the houses. The Faculty Com-
mittee on Fraternities will approve the plans
and costs of the houses, approve the .J6ca-
tion, limit the number of students that will
room in the houses, determine whether the
students will be permitted to have their meals

in them, and many other details necessary for
approval.

One of the features of the action of the
Board was to allow the houses to be built
either on or off college property.
should be built on the campus they would be
placed at points which could not be utilized
for any college purposes. Locations which

college. Whatever plans and details are
approved by the Faculty Committee, will!
also be referred to the Executive Committee |
of the Board for final sanction.

How many students will be allowed to
;room in the houses has not been stated and
will be later decided, by the, authorities, but
the number will hardly exceed six. . The
Faculty Committee will also determine
| whether fraternity members will be allowed
to have their meals in the houses, and will
formulate other restrictions.

This action by the Board will afford an
‘opporécsts Zor the dewaiogment of fratermni-
ties heretofore lacking. When new nationals
are petitioned by locals, the locals will be

(Continued on page 6)

If they |

have already been suggested as feasible places |
are those which could not be used by the |

Trinity Contests Chosen
From Fifteen Speakers

Cox, Walthall, Story, Little, Whar-
ton, Elkins and Patterson
Selected

RUHR QUESTION DEBATED

Trinity to be Met at Durham—
Erory Debate to be Held at
Queens

The. preliminary contest for the choosing
of intercollegiate debaters was held in Shear
er Hall on the night of Friday,
29th, in which W. M. Cox, D. B. Walthall.
P. B. Story, L. C. Little, D. B. Wharton,
L. D. Elkins and P.M. Patterson were
chosen to represent the college in the ap-
proaching debates against Emory and Trinity
College. It was for the purpose of choosing
seven speakers, three for each of the two
teams and one alternate, from a list of 12
contestants that this preliminary contest
was held.

The subject for discussion was,

Resolved,

the Ruhr. While it was left to the discretion

uphold, the fact that Davidson“had been
given the affirmative side in the main debates
caused the greater numbet to the
affirmative side. Those“upholding this were
D. B. Walthall, A/C. Kk. T. Pullen,

W. M. Cox, J. Ly Holthouser, R. B. Parker,

choose

Ray,

P. M. Patterson, W. Z. Bradford, and H. B
Price; the negative by Pi J. Story, D. B.
Wharton, and LL. C. Little. The arguments |

of Ahe evening hinged upon Articles 12, 17
and 18 of the Treaty, and the de-
cision handed down by the Reparations Com-
mittee in which it sanctioned the action of

Versailles

Service in Regular Army
Following the schedule of rotation for
officers who have been detailed on R. O. T.
C. duty for four years, Capt. T. G. Hearn,
who has been Professor of Military Science
and Tactics during his term here, and Capt.
M. H. Ellis, will leave, when the school term
expires, for duty with troops in the regular
army and cavalry school respectively. War-
rant Officer J. B. Ryan also leaves at the
same time for Camp Benning, and service in
the Twenty-ninth Infantry.

Captain Geo. H. Weems, already popular
| because of his interest in college affairs, and
his ability, will succeed Captain Hearn -as
P. M. S. and T. for 1924-'25. Lt. J. H.
| George, who completes his term here at the
will remain as

iclose of the 1924-'25 session,
jassistant P. M. S. and T.

| Captain Hearn’s work has given Davidson
‘a high rating among the schools of the
|Corps Area, and he
‘secure an honor rating. Through his work
‘and that of Captain. Weems, commutation
will be allowed for uniforms. The good
material used in their making will add great-
ly to the appearance of the unit. Juniors
will be allowed $3.00 and Seniors $7.00.

to the efficiency attained here by a continu-
ation of Captain Hearn’s hard work. Anoth-

Lieutenant George, and two non-commis-
sioned officers, in addition to Sergeant

unit.

Debaters For Emory and

February |

That France is justified in her occupation of

of the speakers as to which side they’ might |

has worked hard to.

Captain Weems, next year, intends to add |
er commissioned officer will join him and |

Pritchert, will complete the personnel of the!

Barrage of Snow
Greets Freshman

‘Davidson Mat Men Win

’

Two Out of Five Meets

Leaving Chapel Selser and Cromartie Remain Unde-

The that fell Wednesday morn-
ing brought delight to the hearts all
upper-classmen and terror and consternation

Wet snow

ot

to the wearers of the green “F's”
ized that the day of reckoning had drawn
nigh. With the first advent of the luckless
Iresh the campus, and until the last
the feathery plumes of Mother
own had faded from the
terra firma, 4he new boys were the recipients,
willing and otherwise,
from every quarter.

on
vestige of

Gooses’

ol

Beginning at) Chapel, and continuing
throughout the the Sophs with their
cohorts paid back with lavishfand all the
indignities suffered since Ure mighty Fresh
no longer have to bowAind serape to them
on account of the nofazing proposition, The

day,

Royal Knights of?the Aqua Club were out to Carolina on the home mat.

in full force with membership cards in their
shands in the shape of brick-lined snowballs.

This disfinguished order succeeded in initiat- cision.

ingemost of the Freshie, and those that they
missed were taken care of by the herd of
yelling fanatics that attacked the diminish
ing lines with a zeal that would have done
justice to a regiment of Moros or Esqui-

(Continued on page 5)

I. R. C. Convention M Meets *.“:

At Furman and G. W. C.

who real-

good old)

snowballs and ice)

feated Through Entire Season

COACH WEEMS DUE-CREDIT

Victory Over Trinity On Home
. Floor—Brightest Spot in
eason

The Wildeats have at last won for them-
selves “recognition mat performers.
Wrestling for the first time under a regular
coach, they won two out of five meets against
the best teams of the South, V. M. [. in-
flicted the worst defeat: upon the Wildeat
team, winning five out of seven matches for
21-0. The most notable
was from Trinity, aspirants fer the Southern
title, in the Davidson gymnasium.

as

a score of victory

Davidson lost the first meet of the season
Ki
one mateh, but Carolina won
Davidson only got a three-point de-

wou
while

Cromartie won from Hagan, of
Carolina, while Matheson threw P. N. Pat-
terson, The other matches all resulted in
idraws, Lindamood and Poindexter wrestling
two full periods to a draw. Carolina won,
| 5-3.

The Ale won their second meet
from V. P. This. was the only meet of

the season in saan every match resulted in
Selser, Lindamood
Davidson,

Cromartie and

winning for Cromartie won two

nvitches, one on time and one on a fall. Lb.
P. Cox, N. G. Patterson and Vanee lost to
ithe “Techmen, The score was 16-11, David-

J. H. Davis ani L. litem Repre- son.

sent International Relations
Club at Conference

(Continued on page 5)

The third mateh also resulted in a win for
Selser won the first match against
Midgett won the fifth for Trinity

Davidson.
Trinity.

Answering the invitation of Furman Uni- | from N. G. Patterson, making the score 5-3,

Trance 4 yy ito Rk . Thar Rite
ee oe eae eae He man Borsity and Greenville Woman's College.) Trinity. The other matches were all draws
affirmative and negative speakers, the issues | (clesates. trom 23 Southern colleges and up to the last match, Coach Baileys fearful
all being mutually drawn into moral, eco- MN a un i Greanville oneHis sir the Wel HOTA ol his unde-
nomic, practical and legal effects of the day, February 29th, for the first student feated champions, tried to run in Midgett
French occupation. The discussion was well conference on international relations ever} again against Lindamood in violation of both
thought out, well presented and well attack- ete a ue eT RU Fen eseNtae the Bley abel ie seed aay HIS Eye
ed in the refutations of the several speakers. tives from five Southern States entered into | teams. Coach Weems stood pat. Referee
It marks well the confidence with which conference on the vital interest of the day,| Bangle said Davidson wins five poins by
seetre and many notable speakers were enjoyed. default. Score: Davidson, 8; Trinity, 5.

(Continued on page 6) In the first att of the conference, Davidson suffered her second defeat at
Prof. C. B. Gosnell, ‘of Furman University, _ithe hands of Carolina at Chapel Hill, Sel-
C 8 W § d |expressed the purpose a the conference by} ser won the first match on time. W. D.
aptain eems. ouccee $ | sounding the call to Southern students to}and L, P, Cox Jost to Carolina on falls and
C i H N T study and think internationally, pointing out | Vance on time. The remaining matches were

aptain earn ext erm the peculiar fitness of the conference at such | draws, Carolina won, 13-3.
Tee a time just a few weeks after the passing of | The last match of the season was also a
Capta'ns Hearn and Ellis Resume Woodrow Wilson, who had done so much| defeat for Davidson. The undefeated Cadets
jto bring about good will among the nations.|of V. M. [. walked away with five out of

(Continued on page 8)

The first step in the wetual rebuilding of
Chambers Memorial Building was taken
on Tuesday, February 26th, when the con-
tract for the building of the southern unit
T was awarded to Blythe & Isenhour,
contractors, of Charlotte. There were 10 or
12 firms making offers for the work when
the bids were opened in the office of the
architect, H. C. Hibbs, of Nashville, but
Blythe & Isenhour made the best bid with
$140,700. This firm is the same that built
, East, West, and Watts dormitories and the
Library, and their work has always been
highly satisfactory to the college in every
way.

Actual work of clearing away the debris

or

of the old building has been started, and as!

soon as that is finished the construction work
will start. The contract calls for the com-
pletion of the building in 160 work days after
\the letting of the contract, so it is hoped to
have the building ready for use by the open-
ing of next session, or not later than October
1st at the latest. However, there is no dis-
position on the part of either the college or
the architect to unduly hasten the work;
\they preferring to see the work done well.

Work Starts On South Wing Chambers;
Building Will Be Completed by October

The building will be three stories in
‘height, and will be the complete southern
unit, and not just the southern end or cross
of the T as was at first contemplated. On
the ground floor there will be nine executive
offices, faculty room, store rogm, two class
rooms, and instructors’ offices.’ On the
ond and third floors there will be 19 class
and seven instructors’ offices. The
most of the exterior of the building will be
of granite and limestone, and the roof will
be of copper, the most durable roofing ob-
tainable. The building will be fireproof, the
halls will be roomy with composition floors,
and the walls will be soundproof.

sec-

rooms

The plans would have been ready for the
bidders a month earlier, but at the last ex- ~
amination the architect ‘found that he could
give a much more beautiful building at a
very small additional cost with a few
changes. These changes -were made and,
according to Mr. Hibbs, the building, which
when it is completed iu all wuss will have a
frontage of 312 feet, willbe one of the best
and most beautiful college buildings any-
where.
