THE DAVIDSONS4N. MAY 8, 1924

ALUMN

I N EWS Here and There

S. C. CLUB

The South Carolina Club plans to hold

NOTATIONS
At the Seminary

Among those graduating from the
Union Theological Seminary this May
are 18 former Davidson students. There
are 34 men who are finishing this year
and Davidson's representation among
this number speaks well for the college.
The man who was chosen to lead the
class this year, W. C. Smith, is a David-
son alumnus of the class of 1920, Other
of his classmates who graduate are: Roy
Rochester Craig, Daniel Ralph Freeman,
Hugh Cunningham Hamilton, Wade Hill-
man Harrel, Robert Todd Lapsley Liston,
Kenneth Benson McCutchen, Charles
Augustus McGirt, David Worth Roberts,
William Clifford Smith, and Thomas
Hugh.Spence. Edward Owings Guerrant
Lilly, winner of the Charles D. Larus
Fellow scholarship and Edgar Archibald
Woods are the representatives of the
class of 1919. Other representatives from
Davidson are as follows: John Russell
Woods, winner of the Moses D. Hodge
Fellow scholarship, 1918, Flynn Vincent
Long, Stafford Morrison Query and
Lewis Bevens Schenck come from the
class of 1921 while Joseph Bingham Mack
is the sole graduate hailing from the
class of 1916. These 18 men are just an-
other link in Davidson’s reputation as a
producer of fine men devoting their life
to Christ.

C. J. Matthews, class of ’19, is making
an excellent record as a salesman in con-
nection with the Addressograph Com-
pany of Orlando, Fla. In a recent nation-
wide contest of that company, he’led his
district in sales and won second place in
the national race. During this contest,
his record-breaking sales amounted to
47 machines in the five weeks which the
contest lasted. He made a record of
470 per cent during this period. A re-
ward accompanies this service.

Dr. A. Bruce Curry, class of ’07, pro-

fessor of English Bible in the Biblical

Seminary at New York, recently deliver- |

eda series of lectures in Bible study to
the upper-class students of Winthrop
College. While at Winthrop he was al-

so the chief speaker before the Y. W. C.| 1906—J. W. Moore is at Louisville, Ky.

Dr. Curry is remembered here at Yazoo City, Miss., recently moved
Davidson for the very interesting lectures to Gastonia, N. C., where he is in
which he has delivered here in the past. the cotton business.

1919—W. A. Hall, Jr., is at the present

We notice from a recent issue of a time a lawyer at Richmond, Va.
Miami paper the engagement of Mr.) to25—S. M. Wrenn is now a druggist at
Russell Moore, class of ‘20, to Miss Benson, N. C.

Thelma Donavan, of that city. 1922—John Schenek was injured while

Miss Donavan is a graduate of Notre working in the Johnston Mills Co.,
Dame. Mr. Moore, after graduating where he is employed. His left
from Davidson, accepted a position with hand was caught in a chain of a
the Miami branch of Armour and Com- machine and three fingers and
pany, which he holds an excellent posi-! thumb were badly mangled; the
tion, third finger being torn off alto-

gether. After a stay in the hos-
pital, Johuny has recovered. sutti-

Dr. Taliaferro Thompson, ’05, in

Korea | ciently to return to work.
Dr. W. Taliaferro Thompson, professor nae
of Religious Education in Union Sent | MORE THAN FRIENDS
inary and editor-in-chief of the “Re-| rere 3
view,” is in Korea, where he is giving a) The church papers carry the item that

series of addresses on Sunday School) Messrs. W. W. Morton, ‘oo, and J. J.
Murray, ‘oo, of Wilmington, have accept-

organization and methods, and Young
People’s work before the missionaries ed joint work with the First Presbyte-
and native Christians. Dr. Thompson tian Church, of Lexington, Va. where

World's Sunday School Association and men of Washington and Lee University
the Foreign Missions Committee of the and Virginia Military Institute.
Southern Presbyterian Church. He is| The friendship of these two Alumni is
addressing missionaries and native Chris-| among the romances of the college. They
tians o fthe Northern and Southern Pres-| were assigned rooms together as Fresh-
byterian Churches, the Northern andjmen and continued as roommates
Southern Methodist Churches, the Cana-| throughout their four years. Each
dian Presbyterian Church, and the Aus-I taught for a year before entering Union
tralian Presbyterian Church. He will] Seminary where they roomed together
spend a month at the Methodist Sem-} for three years.

jinary of Korea and a month at the ee

After a year in the ministry, in which
byterian Seminary. He is to go from one) they were separated, they went to Scot-
end of Korea to the other, and, before | land to study for 18 months, tramping
returning, will attend the annual meet-/ together in the British Isles for two sum
ing of the missionaries. His work will | mers and studying in the intervening
be finished about July rst, when he starts] year at the University of Glasgow.

revap ie > , da : : |
home by way of India, the Holy pene | Both were chaplains in the war, Mr.

land Egypt, arriving in Richmond in Sep-| \forton being sent to Franee and Mr.
|tember in time for the opening of the) Murray to California. Since their re-
seminary.—The Union Seminary Review. | turn to private life Mr. Morton has been
ETRE | director of Young People’s Work in the

Mrs. Wilson MacConnell returned) First Presbyterian Church of Wilming-
from Baltimore, last week. She was}ton, and Mr. Murray has been evangelist
called there by the death of her mothers of Wilmington Presbytery and they have
Mrs. Doyle. lived together in the Y. M. C. A, building.

Sord

THE UNIVERSAL CAR

A Welcome Member

Z

F. O.

Demountable Rims
and Starter 685 Extra.

of the Family

MOTOR car is never more appreciated than in
TN the springtime. Its convenience and enjoyment
are shared by all the family—and by speeding up the
day's work, it provides more time for recreation.

A Ford Touring Car provides every motor car essen:
tial at the lowest price for which a five passenger car
has ever sold—a price only made possible by complete
manufacture, in tremendous volume, in the largest and
most economically operated plants in the automobile
industry.

Efficiency of manufacture is accurately reflected in the
quality and price of the Ford Touring Car.

FORD MOTOR COMPANY, DETROIT, MICHIGAN
Runabout — $265 Coupe—$525 Tudor Sedan —$590
Fordor Sedan — $685 All prices f. 0. b. Detroit
You can buy any model by making a small down:
payment arranging easy terms for the balance
Or you can buy on ourgWeekly Purchase Plan.
The Ford dealer in your neighborhood will gladly
explain both plans in detail. ;

PRESSON MOTOR COMPANY

B. Detroit

went out under the joint auspices of the they will have work among the young,

R. O. T. C. News
its regular spring feed before the Senior

LETTER TO CLASS OF ’19 exams begin. President J. I. Smith has

A. Cabinet training council, held there) 1915—Rey. Marion A. Boggs is located) ; announced that the feed will probably be
April 25th and 26th, for colleges in North at Dermott, Ark. | Tarboro, N. C. held within the next week. At the meet-
and South Carolina. 1918—W. D. Lawson, Jr., formerly from) April 26, 1924. | ing officers for the next year will be

Say Fellows: elected. Plans will also be made to en-
Just think backward for a few minutes| deavor to get adarge number of men up
—think back five years and see us just as| here next year to represent Davidson
we were before we were due to get thpse} {rom the Palmetto State.
sheep-skins that we had been working
for for four long years. You remember]  }f{rs, T. B. Fetzer, of Concord is visit-
that first great re-union we planned,|jng Miss L. and M. Young.
how we were all going to be back and
celebrate—and talk about our wives and
children, cte.? Well, that time is at
hand,

Commencement this year, the last of
May or the first of June, will mark the
five-year post in our highways since we
branched off from the old college.” What ty
do you say to having everybody in the
class of ‘to back? Will you be back
yourself and work to get any nearby
classmate back too? I'll say so! Let's! @
all go—let’s be on hand this year 100 per
eent strong. Let's show them that "10

In the mind of every serious
Aa ' ; ; thinking college man there arises a
has made it’s mark in the world just like question—"“What am I going to do
it did in college. | after graduation?” This question
presents a serious crisis. It de-
mands a definite decision.

In an unusual degree the Life

Fellows, this letter may reach you only |
after much traveling and by circuitous

routes, Take that post card enclosed Insurance business combines ‘the
that is addressed back to me and write!].f opportunity for conspicuous bus-
}your présent address on it and fire it iness success with the opportunity

for real social service. Here is a

hack to me right away, so the next. one profession that is eminently worthy

won't have to take such a long road but of consideration.
'can go straight home. Would you like to try it this Summer?
| Don't think ofthis letter as a form let- Write to us for particulars

iter because it is mimeographed—think
fof it as a personal letter, as 1 am think-
Jing personally of cach one of you fellows
jas | write, and I’m hoping to have the
| pleasure of seeing cach one of you again
j at commencement, Be sure to come—
bring the wife and babies. Brookes II
Jinay be there too to weleome you all
| with daddy.

’ . . eccese
Yours in D.C.

bridtae choe seo, |{ PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO.
sourteny ttre ets co.

Greensboro, N. C.

| Note of Thanks:

Mr. and Mrs, Alexander White wish}
}to express their appreciation to the stu- A. W. McALISTER, Pres.
dent body for the sympathy expressed | H. B. GUNTER, Ag’cy Mgr.
by the floral offering in their recent Ne
reavement,

|| VICTROLAS

|| New Records Weekly —

| VICTOR AND BRUNSWICK
GIBSON MANDOLINS AND GUITARS

CONN CORNETS, TROMBONES
AND SAXOPHONES

LUDWIG DRUMS

PLAYER PIANO ROLLS
SHEET MUSIC
Will Handle Deferred Payment Accounts

ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.

CHARLOTTE

Mr. Merchant-

Have You a Policy That Protects
You Against BAD CHECKS?

We issue a FRAUD BOND which pro-
tects you against such checks given in
exchanging in good faith merchandise or
merchandise and money, such check be-
ing drawn on a bank in the city in which
your place of business is located.

The prices for this protection are $25 or
$40. Ask for further information. Call
Mr. Stitt at

INSURANCE DEPARTMENT

Independence Trust Co.
Phone 3490

