THE DAYIDSONIAN, JANUARY ‘17, 1324

.EXAMINATION SCHEDULE
SESSION 1923-24

First Semester

JAN. | FRESHMAN | SOPHOMORE |JUNIOR & SENIOR
A Me No classes No classes No classes
Tues. 22 P.M. {Bible 1 ~ [Bible 2 Applied Math, 1 and 2
Astronomy—Geology
Spanish 1 Spanish 2 Spanish 3 and 4
~|French 1 French 2 ~\French 3, Psychology 3
Philosophy 1 or 2
: A.M. _ |Latin 1 Latin 2 Law—Education 2 Se
Thurs, 24 a cat ato
P. M. Math. 1 Math, 2 Math. 3 and 4; Polit. Se: 2
"2% ' Education 1;
ar Christian Evidences or
|Chureh History
a ARNG = Biolony alee os [Biology 3 and 4
‘ Fri, 25 PHMi-os|PiiverssHypes |e ee | Psychology 1 and 2
Seto” Pa |RO;TaG 1 IRrO) Mice clReOm Cicanda
A, M. Chemistry 1 Chemistry 2. [Chemistry 3, 4, 5and6.
Tues. 29 (PM. z History 1 History 2or3.
History 4 and 5
3 German 1 |German 2 ~ (German 3 ap
Wed. 30 ae Greek 1 : Greek 2_ tee : \Greek 3, 5 and 6
P. M. Pub. Speaking |Polit. Se. I Accounting
VEG Be Physics 1 ‘|Physies 2, 3 and 4
ne | Pub. Speaking
Sree et, lmneienel @ oe | Euan 2 Tulineiensron4
English 5 or 6

Billy Sunday Among Those

Invited to Make Addresses

He Has Accepted Invitation and
Will Visit the Hill Soon

The list of speakers who have been asked
to address the Y. M. C. A. during the spring
term assures a series of varied and inter-
esting programs. The list includes minis-
ters, newspaper men, Y. M. C. A. workers,
and men of national prominence in political
lines,

Billy Sunday has accepted the invitation,
and will be on the hill within the next two
weeks. No definite date has been set, but
January 14th or 21st are the probable dates.
On account of the large number of meetings
which he conducts on Sunday, Mr. Sunday
will not be able to address the “Y” at its
regular vesper service.

Invitations have also been issued to Rev. |

Wade C. Smith, Doctor McGeachy, John
McSween, Mr. Julian Miller and Dr. Ben
Lacy, all of whom are outstanding men in
their professions.

Mr. Smith is pastor of The Church-by-
the-Side-of-the-Road, in Greensboro. He
will be remetibred by those who have heard
him as one who! delivers a message in simple
but forceful words.

Dr. McGeachy is well known to. David-
son students, being the pastor of the Second
Presbyterian Church of Charlotte. He was
among those initiated into Phi Beta Kappa
at the recent ceremonies held on the hill.

Mr. McSween is a young man who is con-
nected with the Y. M. C. A. work at Clem-
son. He brings a message from a young

man to young men, and should have a large |

hearing.
The upper-classmei will n
forceful talk made by Mr. Julian Miller be-

fore the Y. M. C. A. last session. Mr. Miller |

is news editor of the Charlotte News, and

brings the word of God as a business man |

of the day.

Rev. Ben Lacy; pastor of the Central Pres-
byterian Church of Atlanta, is among the
leaders in the Presbyterian Church in the
U. S. The “Y” has not received positive
word from Mr. Lacy, but it is hoped that
he will sce fit to visit his Alma Mater and
address the students.

Others of national magnitude have been
asked to visit the hill, but word has not
been received cither of their acceptance or
decline of the invitation. Whether or not
these additional speakers are secured, it is
certain that the vesper services conducted
during the new term will be both interesting
and instructive.

LOYALTY DISCUSSED AT
SUNDAY BIBLE CLASSES

The Student Bible Classes in their
meetings last Sunday morning took up
the subject, in general, of Christian Loy-
alty. The fact that loyalty is essential
to achievement in any line was first dis-
eussed. Picking a worthy cause to be
loyal to, fitting one’s self for leadership
in this cause, and living up to this cause,
were brought out. Since the good points
of a cause are embodied in the lives of

its adherents, a challenge was issued to|excited pandemonium among the college boys
Christ, as|by a perfect shot from the difficult left cor- |
the leader of the Christian cause, de-|ner of the court. A second later the whistle.
blew and the Wildcat rooters went wild. |

all to live Christ-like lives.

mands the loyalty of all men.

i]
remember the |

| R. O. T. C. News

The R. O. T. C. Battalion will have its
scheduled fire drill Wednesday. The: fire
drills have added much protection against the
fire hazard, and in the future, with the aid
of such an organization it will be almost im-
possible for a building to burn completely
down,

The shooting of the Freshman class as an
average is slightly better than that of last
year. However, the men this year are shoot-
ing at a new target and this may account
for the higher scores.

The first firing contest of the season is
scheduled for the last week insthis month.
Fach rifle team is composed of 15 men, The
team to shoot the match this month has not
yet been picked. Captain W. C. Ramsay, of
the Junior class, whose home is at Ellisville,
| Miss., is the best shot in the battalion. Other
men who were on last year’s team are EF. T.
| Buck, A. N. Sullivan and N. Sullivan. In
the Fresh class there are a number of men
who are showing up well but as all the posi-
tions of shooting have not been completed
ithe team has not been picked.
| Colonel Falls will visit Davidson some
time this spring to inspect the battalion.
|Colonel Falls is a North Carolinian and a
| graduate of Carolina.
|mand of the’ R. O.
| Corps area.
| In the drill competition recently held C. E.
| Houston's squad won first place. Houston is
|from Monroe. In the platoon competition
the platoon commanded by L. B. Huie, of
| Atlanta, won first place. The competition
| between companies will be held next term.

He is now in com-

T. C. of the Fourth

FIRST YEAR MEN

(Continued from page 1)

| Georgia and North Carolina, many enthusi-
ts are betting on them as the champions
jot all these states, if they are but given a
| chance to try their prowess.

| Freshmen (62) Position Greensboro (18)

| Center

leRbrelatas (UM) Oden (0)

Right Forward

Anderson; (18) 22 See Allen (0)
Left Forward

Fewlitt= (22); eee eS Scott (7)

| Right Guard

Sapp (8) 222 sere Goodum (7)

Left Guard
Simpson (2) posse eas Swift (2)
*Burroughs (2)
Fouls—Davidson: Hudgins 1, Anderson 2,
| Hewlitt 2, Sapp 1, Simpson 2. Greensboro:

Allen 1. Substitutions—Davidson: Hunter
jand Allen; Greensboro: Stone and Bur-
| roughs.

From the first the Fresh Scrub game

jagainst Cornelius was a hectic but exciting
jaffair. The Highs jumped into an early lead
| Which the Freshmen overcame, only to lose
\it, immediately. The lead see-sawed be-
|tween the two.

| Opposing rooters alternately cheered and
| Sroaned. Near the close a veritable life and
|death struggle began. The referee was al-
|most unable to cope with the situation.

One minute before the time was up the

score stood 27-27. Then Lawrence Beale

Two extra five-minute periods were necessi-
tated to decide the contest.
Both teams played a fast, consistent game
with few outstanding stars.
»

‘ALPHA PHI EPSILON

(Continued from page 1)

(a) No regular debate, oration, or decla-
mation as at present held.

(b) The meetings to be thrown open to
general discussion of topics from the floor
of the house.

4. That the following rules be adopted
to govern the new form of procedure:

(These are given informally and in part
only, here.)

(a) That just prior to the adjournment of
any meeting the program committee present
to the society in the form of a regular mo-
tion at least one and preferably two ques-
tions of ‘vital and present interest. For ex-
ample, “Mr. President, I move the adoption
of, a bill with the following provisions :
(Then will follow a brief outline of the Mel-
lon tax reduction plan.)”

(b, ¢, ete., omitted.)

(g) Any member of the house shall have
the privilege of making any motion, which
does not violate the rules of parliamentary
procedure. And the privilege of debate on
any debatable motion shall be extended to
any member of the house.

(i) In order that proper credit shall be
given to members who desire to secure a
diploma of the society, the critic or reviewer
of the society shall state, before adjourn-
ment, the names of those members whose
speeches, in his opinion, are worthy of a
credit.

(o) The regular rules of parliamentary
procedure shall govern all debates and mo-
tions, amendments, ete., with Roberts’ Rules
of Order (or some other) as guide.

A few of the subjects that will be sug-
gested for discussion are:

1, The Mellon tax reduction plan.

2. The soldiers’ bonus,

3. The Revision of the Transportation

Act, 1920,
4. A Federal Anti-Lynching bill.
5. America’s entrance into a world court

as favored by Mr. Harding.

This plan to change the form of programs
in our societies will be presented fully at the
meetings this week, by members of the so-
cieties. The adoption of this or any other
suggestion is left entirely with the individ-
ual societies.

REPORTERS’ CLUB ELECTS
TWO MEN TO MEMBERSHIP

At the last meeting of the Reporters’
Club, C. KE. Monk and A. Y. Bowie were
appeinted to act as an Absence Commit-
tee and to check up on all absences from
J. FE. Moore and R. B.
Parker were elected to membership in
the club, the initiation to take place at
an carly date.

the meetings.

L. A. ELLIOTT SELLS STORE
AND TURNS TO FARMING

Nickels and dimes will be saved, quarters
and halves will not be sperit, and the mem-
bers of the student body will be greatly
benefited financially now since “Jew” Elliot
has closed out his little shop and retired to
the private life of a Southern planter. The
appetizing savor of his peanuts, and that in-
viting odor of his cheese and
his wide variety of Californias in the win-
dow, will not tempt the fellows to come in.

“Tew” has been in business here for more
than six years, and while here has been a
close friend of many students, especially
when he was open just after they had re-
turned from somewhere tired and hungry.
He is reported to have said that he had made
his millions and was now going to retire
and spend his last years as a close observer
of nature. While here he kept his shop
open during the school year, but during the
summers he could only be found down by
some quiet stream waiting for something to
come along and nibble at his bait. Upon the
return to his haven at nightfall a great string
of fish was the usual result of his labors.

sandwiches,

Mr. Elliot's friends in Davidson are num-
bered by his acquaintances. He has pur-
chased a farm near Charlotte, where he in-
tends to settle down and bend all his efforts
toward raising hogs and hominy.

HOBOS’ NAMES MISSED BY
PSYCHOLOGICAL ERROR

“Through a typographical and psycho-
logical of the worst kind, the
names of three of Davidson's illustrious
sons were omitted from the of
the hobo column, Burns Gibbs and big
Little Deck, real genuine Georgia peaches
left Davidson a few hours after suspension
of classes and Jaid in there and fought
things in general until they wound up
at Cornelia, Ga. 48 hours later,

On their backs was this strange deviec
which they bore through the snow and

error

roster

ice: “From Davidson, N.C. to Cornelia,
Ga. How about a ride?” They both
got rides aplenty and had a pleasant

time onthe trip. Burns had too good
atime at home and could not spare the
extra hours for the hike, so he rode the
“evars” back to Davidson. Deck
did the same it is reported,

Another man from these parts, Little
Hollingsworth felt the call of the open
road and started to Atlanta by foot. He
had, it seems, the best luck of all, getting a
rideat Belmont, N.C. whieh took him to

Lower

Atlanta, His only trouble came with the
advent of Georgia roads and numerous
stick-ups and blowouts that he had to

help with,

The Thelemite Club met Friday even-
ing with Prof. and Mrs, F.
Prof, the “Japanese
Earthquake.” Captain G. 1. Weems, a
newly cleeted member, was present for
the first time.

KK. Mleagle.

Porter lectured on

African Missions Subject
of Volunteer Discussion

Missionary Makes Address and
Presents Cause of Africa

The Volunteer Band held its Sunday night
service after the “Y” meeting. The speaker
for the evening was Rev. Mr. Smith.

Mr. Smith is a missionary from Africa,
who is in the United States on a furlough.
The program was a variety in the form of
questions and answers. Mr. Smith did not
give a talk, but answered questions as they
were asked by members of the band.

Some of the questions and answers were:

“Are there any schools in Africa?” An-
swer: “There are 582 out-stations with a
small school at each; they are taught up to
the third grade.” “What language is taught?”
“The French.” “Is there any opposition to
missionary work?” “The only opposition
comes from the Catholics and native witch
doctors, and sometimes the Belgian Govern-
ment, as influenced by the Catholics.” “Is
the native dialect hard to learn?” “Not very
hard. New men on the field are supposed to
preach within a year.” “Are there enough
hospitals?” “There are only a few good
ones and a great demand for more. The
natives are unhealthy, and doctors, nurses,
and-hospitals are needed.” “What are the
games like?” There are very few games
played, and they are not very active.”

or

JUNIOR MAKES RECORD

J. A. Thompson, an inmate of the in-
firmary during the past week, and a
member in good standing of the Junior
Class has the unique distinction of being
the only man who ever studied, while
taking the rest cure. In doing this he
broke a precedent which has been stand-
ing since the memory of man runneth
not the Incidently Mr.
Thompson had his tonsils removed.

to contrary.

The only other persons who resided
for any length of time in the aforesaid
domicile were H. B. Matthews and Tf. L.
Hodgkin, both for the same purpose as
Although there
eral others, their stay was so brief that
only by consulting the records of the
absence committee can they be obtained,
As can’ be from the record set
down, the Senior Class also set a record
by its members being conspicuous by their

Thompson, were sev-

seen

absence,

THE VIKINGS, JUNIOR CLUB

There has been for some time a club,
consistingg of six members of the Junior
class, known as the Vikings. This club
is for friendship only—and includes only
members of the class of ’25, The mem-
bers are: A, M. Martin, A. N. Moffett,
N. G. Patterson, H, B. Price, W. C. Ram-
I sey and D. B. Wharton.

'

What a, difference

just a few cents make!”

)
\ d}
tid ed ted)

FATIMA

