Vol. XII

DAV

FOR A BETTER

DAVIDSON

IDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 23, 1924

ONIAN ©

No. 6

Merriment Reigns Supreme at Annual
Stunt Night Performance

Joy Provided Students by Class
Stunts and Feature Acting

GLEE CLUB BENEFIT

Play by Professor in English De-
partment Presented by Members
of Dramatic Club

|
|
|
|
|
|
|

Stunt Night went over immensely last
Friday judging from the laughter and ap-|
plause that it brought out in. its audience. |
Shearer Hall was packed by 8:10 with every
one scanning the large program which was
suspended from the are of the stage and
wondering just what the entertainment would
be like.

The College Glee Club sponsored the af-|
fair this year with the intention of raising
funds for their several trips. Piggy Martin, |
president of the club and manager for the |
Stunt Night affair, reports that the financial
result is even better than he expected. Later
on the Glee Club will give a concert here
to further strengthen their treasury,

At 8:15 the first act of the thirteen began.
Cable Russell made the piano fairly hum
while accompanying Ed Wilson in’ several
popular songs.
Fresh class.

Thest two represented the

The Soph Stunt had a larger representa-
tion of the class than any other class stunt
given. Shorty Love acted as judge in a
court scene, His Honor entered, moisten-|
ed his throat with a slight gargle of Haig |
and Haig and took the bench. Several black
boys were tried and sentenced in a humor- |
ous manner, Williams, McCrae, Woods and |
Earnest offered John Brown's Baby.

Joe, Earnet's one-man band next put in!
appearance with Joe playing all of the major |
and minor roles. He was dressed as a clown |
and demonstrated the superior music creat-|
ing powers of a wonderful patent medicine ,
sold exclusively by him. This medicine, |
according to Joe, will in time bring talent to
even the dumbest. He played in turn a
clarinet, piano, banjo, mandolin, guitar, saxa-
phone and (with a little backstage assist- |

(Continued on page 8) |

College Anthology Will
Publish Contributions.
Smith and Martin Notified of Ac-

ceptance of Poems from Their. |
Pens

C. F. Smith and A. M. Martin have beant|
notified by the Editorial Department of the |
Stratford Publishing Company, in Boston,
that poems, submitted by them, will be pub-
lished in this year’s College «Inthology. Both
poems were submitted by their authors in a/
nation-wide contest, and were awarded hon-
orable mention over a wide list of poems, |
submitted by other college students.

The Poem, submitted by Smith, was writ-|
ten as the class poem for the present Punior |
class in 1923, and was published in the 1923
edition of Quips and Cranks. Martin's
poem, The Sanctuary, was written two years
ago, and submitted to the college magazine
for publication, but was never published.

The College <\nthology is published an-
nually by the Stratford Company, and con-
tains the choicest of American college poems.
It is a distinct honor to Smith and Martin,
as well as to Davidson College for these
poems to win a place within its covers.

Smith is the poet of the Class of ’26, and
besides this he holds important offices in the
various journalistic organizations of the
campus. He is a member of Sigma Up-
silon, one of the leading national honorary
journalistic fraternities.

“Piggy” Martin is president of the Glec
Club,..a requent.-contriuwar. to the various
publications, and a member of Omicron Delta
Kappa, a leading honorary fraternity on the }
campus; and likewise a member of Sigma
Upsilon.

|

Friday Eve

Two Davidson Professors.
Drs. M. E. Sentelle and J. M.
Douglas Basa oe! Degree

atric,

At the dedication of the new LeRoy!
Springs gymnasium and Smyth dormitory, |
Wednesday, October 15th, and at the meet-
ing of the Synod of South Carolina, the Fac

julty and Board of Trustees of the Presbyte- |

South Carolina

Sentelle and

rian College of conferred
upon Dr. M. E. Prof. J. M.
Douglas the degree of Doctor of Literature

Among those receiving the LL... degree
when the $100,000) gymnasium av 1 $96,000
dormitory were dedicated were Dr. Byrd,
president of Chicora Dr. DB.
Johnson, president of Winthrop College, and
Dr. Melton, president of the University of
South Carolina.

The conferring of the degree upon Prof,
J. M. Douglas came as a surprise both to
him and to his brother, Dr. D. M.

College;

Douglas,

president of the institution; the Board of

Trustees having met on the morning of the
dedication in the absence of the president.

Doctor Sentelle has been dean and has
been holding the chair of Philosophy at Da-
vidson College for a number of years. Pro-
fessor Douglas has been head of the Mathe-
matics department of Davidson for several
years,

This LL.D. degree is a very high honor
and these two members of the faculty of
Davidson College’ have been rightly hon-

jored in having this degree conferred upon, activities.

them,

Wildkittens Down P. C. |

Ina Well-Played Game

Grey and Averton do Good Work in
Backfield—Goal Line Uncrossed

The Davidson Wildkittens continued their
victorious march and Thursday they went
down and defeated the Presbyterian College
Freshmen by a 14-6 score.

The South Carolinians ruled the field dur-
ing the first quarter and outplayed the Da-
vidson team and it looked as though P. C.
had things going their way.

Davidson received and were forced to kick.
P. C. then advanced to the Kittens’ 20-yard
line and scored three points by a field goal.
The remainder of the first period was not
featured by any long gains, although the ball
was in Davidson territory a large part of
the time.

In the second quarter P, C. gained again
and advanced the ball to the Kittens’ one-
foot line and first down. It was then that
the Red and Black team woke up and in
the four downs P. C, lost six inches and
Davidson: punted out of danger, but P. C.
advanced within striking distance and Stamp
kicked another goal, bringing their score up
to 6. Davidson then started their attack and
after completing two long passes Grey took
the ball over for the first touchdown. Grey
also added the extra point. Davidson kicked
off but the half ended immediately.

The third quarter was a punting game and
neither team was able to gain any ground to
speak of.

In the third quarter the young Cats ruf-
fled their fur and started an attack on the
P. C. line that burned them down and ground
was gained consistently by Grey and Over-
ton. After first downs Overton took the
oval across and Grey kicked the extra point.
The ball was kept in P. C. territory the re-|!
mainder of the quarter, but the Kittens were
unable to score again.

Stamps and Wilson were the leading gain-
ers for P. C. and both Stamps’ kicks were
spectacular, Overton and Grey showed up
best in the backfield for Davidson, while
Ritchie and Arrowood did good work in the

(Continued on page 7)

Phi Beta Kappa Extends
Bids to Three Members |
of Class of Twenty-five

P. CG; Confers Degrees On Trawick, Purdy and. Rowe Recaivs|

Signal Honors in Senior Class

TRAWICK’S AVERAGE

Men Establish Themselves in Both |
Literary and Other College
Activities

Bids have been extended to three of the
leading scholars in the present Senior class
from the Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kap
pa, honorary scholastic fraternity,-and these
men will be initiated into the dissociation on
the evening of December Sth. The
Whose scholastic averages for the first three
years of their college career are marks of

men,

superior excellence, are: Martin W. Tra-
Wick, of Buena Vista, Vac; W. Wallace
Purdy, of Pensacola, Fla. and Alvin T.

Rowe, of Fredericksburg, Va.

Martin Trawick leads the list of Seniors
with the remarkabh
average of 98 per cent in his work for his |
first three years,
the most intricate courses has won for him
the name of “Stud,” by which he is pepu
larly known/on the campus,

in scholastic work,

His unusual mastery of

He has served
as assistant to the faculty in physies and
mathematics, and has been affiliated with the |
Metrophilian Literary Society in various of-
ficial positions. His name has constantly
appeared on the honor rolls of the school
for the past three years.

Wallace Purdy, whose average is second
only to that of Trawick, has not
his interests entirely to scholarship, but has
played a prominent part in’ various campus
He is a prominent member of
the Eumenean. Literary. Society, a member
of the glee club, and college orchestra, and
has acted as assistant to the faculty in many
He has taken an impor- |
tant part in the various religious organiza-
tions, and has served as president of the
C. E. Training class for the past two years.
From his Freshman year until the present
time, the position of Class Poet has been
repeatedly bestowed on him,

Alvin has especially
languages, but his other scholastic work ha:
been far above the average. He is a mem
ber of} the Eumenean Literary Society, and |
the Spanish Club.

(Continued on page 3)

confined

different courses,

Rowe excelled in

Last year he was one of

Contestants Are
Warming Up for
Emory Debaters

The initial inter-collegiate debate, in
which the Davidson College debating team i:
to participate, will take place in Atlanta on
the evening December Sth, when th:
forensic representatives of Emory Unive fe
sity lock horns with the Davidson talent.

of

| mercies,

The debate, from Emory's standpoint, offers
a fine chance of revenge for the two-to-one

victory of Davidson in last year’s contest |
between the two schools; and from all re-|
ports, the Emory orators are rounding them- |
selves into condition rapidly. |
The proposition for discussion, Resolved.
That the Sterling-Reed Education bill should |
be enacted into law by the next Congress,|
offers ample opportunity for lively argu-!
ments; and neither of the two colleges will!
let the opportunity bo unheeded.
Preliminaries for the debate will be held |
on October 29th, and the debating team will |
be picked at that time. A large number of |
candidates, including a number of veteran |
speakers, have indicated their desire to enter |
the try-outs. Among the students who have }
already begun work on their preliminary |
speeches are: Hayden Hollingsworth, Ben-!
ton Wharton, Roland Parker, C. M. S. Mc-
Ilwine, Archie Ray, Don Whartoa,.“}.: B:

, Gladney, D.-H- Stewart, and Harllee-Branch, |

Jr. A number of other prospective entrants |

will probably start active work during ate
week, H

Charlotte Business Man

_ Makes Talk to Students.

Morgan B. Sper, Sr., Talks Prac-
tically to Young Men at “Y”
Service

“LT heseech-¥ou therefore, brethren, by the

mercies of God, that ye present your bodies!
Lacliving sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God

Was. the
text chosen by Mr, Morgan B. Speir, Sr., of
Charlotte, in his address before the Y. M,
C. A. Sunday evening.

“Paul tells of his life, which was presented
as a living sacrifice. He speaks of his sut-

Which is your reasonable service!”

ferings in presenting his life: five times |
beaten with forty stripes save one; thrice |

scourged with rods; stoned:

in perils often,

shipwrecked ;

“Our lives are to be full of hardships, not
beds of roses, if they are to be successful!
The man who wants success, the man who

achieves success, wants a manly life. We
are all) brothers—then what kind of —in-
| fluence are we exerting. on our brother? Is

that influence for good or bad?”

Here the speaker told of an incident in a
fraternal order in) Charlotte, ilustrating a
case of no good influence exerted by so-call
ed brothers,

““By the mercies of God'—what
have entered into your life to make it bright
er, more enjoyable, Niere worth-while ? These
are mercies of God.

“In the beginning God made heaven and
earth, There is a great merey of God, for
He has given us the capacity to enjoy these.
God is loyve—His love is a merey to man.

“We have the incidents, in which Abra-
ham and others talked with God. That
have the record of these is a great merey.

things

we

“This beautiful country in which we live |

—our state, blessed by God, is another of Hi
Our heritage of forefathers, who,
building houses of worship and living by the
sible, laid the foundation for qour nation as
a Christian nation. Surely this is a gift of
God!

“God gave us our country
ment where the people have the power of
rule; our colleges, where we
opportunity to improve our minds, as well

our povern-

have great

jas our other natures: these are God's gitts

of mercy.
“Then there are our homes, our liberty,
(Continued on page 8)

>y

‘Light Davidson Team Rushes Mountain
_ Bears Off Feet to Win Game, 45-0

| Nearly All of the Scrubs Used in
Defeating the Lutherans

EACH MAN PLAYS WELL

‘Day Was Hot But Wildcats Played
With a Vim That Out-Classed
Opponents

,  Outweighed 15 pounds to the man, Coach
| Monk Younger’s fighting Wildeats won the
[fith straight game of the season Saturday,
}sending the big Lenoir Bears back to their
Mountain haunts scratehing at the little end
hot a 45-0 score, As a sweltering sun poured
down upon Richardson Field, the little Da-
jvidson team showed a drive and a punch un
seen for years, that swept the heavy Moun
jtaineers before them almost at will, carrying
the ball over the final chalked line for six
touchdowns and seoring one field goal from
! placement. | Davidson the first
three minutes play, when Bohannon
snatched Henry Sapp's 27-yard pass from the

seored in

ol
air, and slipped over for a touchdown.

The overwhelming victory of the Red and
Black team came as a great surprise to the
football followers of the state, Coach Gurley
bringing his Lenoir team Richardson
Field with half the state saying that he
would mar the defeatléss record of David-

on

fson-on its home field, and throw a monkey

wrench into the victorious march of the
1924 team. The Davidson team, fighting
against odds of weight, defended its lair

with driving offensive marches that hope-
lessly outelissed the Lenoir squad from the
‘start.

Searcely had the first quarter passed when
Coaches Younger and Tilson jerked the first
string men out of the Davidson line-up and
began sending in substitutes for all the posi
‘tions, in relays of two. Most of the game
was: played with an entirely second team
running over the Hickory boys. Davidson's
reserve strength looked its best, with Covy-
ington and McComb: leading the Davidson
squad in ground gained.

The prettiest play of the game came in the
second quarter, when Ted Covington slipped
through the center of the big Lenoir line
and dashed for 31 yards to the goal line.
This was the third touchdown of the second
period, Jim Hendrix racing around the Le
nori right end for a touchdown on the first
pay of the quarter, and Black bucking the
ball for three yards and a toughdown, after

(Continued on page 6)

3)

NOT

Do you want to

Do you want to

Subscription?

NOW!

All unpaid subscriptions will be discon-
tinued after November 6th.

check at ONCE to

Fighting Wildcats? ,

the Carolina game?
Have you paid your Davidsonian

If not mail us your check for $2.50

ICE?!

keep up with the

get the dope of

So mail your

The Davidsonian

