8

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY Zi, tyz@

DOCTOR KING DISCUSSES
CHRIST AS PERSONALITY

Dr. Robert King preached at the morning
church service last Sunday. Doctor King
chose as his text for his sermon a portion of
the fifth verse of the ninth chapter of Acts:
“Who Art Thou, Lord?” This is the ques-
tion that Paul asked when he was on his
way to Damascus. Rev. Mr. King pointed
out that Christ is still the suffering Lord that
He was when here on earth. The fact that
Jesus is a God-man was clearly brought out
by the statement that if eg not a God-
man then He was the bi@@kest liar and the
most profane blasphemer the world, has ever
known, because He was continually remind-
ing the people of His pecular relation to
God the Father.

“John tells us that in the beginning was
the word. Therefore Jesus is God from
eternity to eternity.” In a striking story Dr.
King pointed out how we should be at rest
since God has His hand on the wheel. He
urged us to prepare our hearts “for God to
take hold of the wheel and control our lives.
“Then, too, the creative power of God should
be all the evidence of God's almighty power
that a thinking man could want. At His
word hundreds of planets were formed. At
His word all creatures were formed and into
them He breathed the breath of life. How
can so small a thing as_a man’s mind com-
pete with the greatness of God?"

“And lastly, Christ’s promise shows that
He has an interest in human beings. It
shows that He lived here on earth among
the suffering humanity, learned to know their
troubles, and learned to bear their burdens.
Then He promised to go with us and be
with us always, even unto the end.

“Surely then the essence of true Chris-
tianity is to know Jesus Christ our Lord,
because if we know Him aright we cannot
help but live Him in our daily lives.”

The Civic League was favored at its
meeting Saturday afternoon with a reading
by Miss McDonald, who has just recently
completed a course in Home Hygiene, given
under the auspices of the Red Cross.

— Mah- Jong —

Is Taking the Country By Storm

A complete set in bright colors, |

144 tiles, 116 counters, 8 racks,

2 dice, book of rules and instruc-
tions; any one can learn the game
in ten minutes, It’s very fasci-
nating. All in attractive box, sent
prepaid on receipt of $1.00 (Canada
25c extra),

Table Covers

Very Attractive Black Sateen Mah-
Jong Table Cover with colored
dragon designs, adjustable to any
size card table; 16 counter pockets
striking colored stitched edges.
Extraordinary value. Special price

COMBINATION OFFER: We will send
prepaid one complete Mah-Jong set and table
cover as described above on receipt of $2.50.

CHINA-AMERICAN IMPORTING CO.
111 West 68th St. New York

THE UNITED STATES PATENT
OFFICE AS A FIELD FOR
LIFE WORK

The Constitution of the United States |
| The intercollegiate rifle firing competition

| provides for granting patents and as early as
1790 Congress enacted legislation for the
grant of patents for inventions.
States Patent Office as such was established
in 1836 and was included in the Department
of the Interior when that department was
established in 1849,
| A patent is granted an inventor to give him
exclusive rights in the invention he discloses |
in his application. It is essential, therefore,
that disclosure be ‘sufficient to instruct fully |
in the performance of the invention. For a
|great many years ‘college graduates have
gone into the Patent Office as examiners.
Their functions is to examine applications
‘for patent to see what the alleged inventor
thinks he has produced that is new and to
see that the disclosure is complete. They
then investigate the prior art as represented
in patents already granted by the United
States and various foreign countries and by
the descriptions in technical literature. The
invention claimed by the applicant to be new
is compared with what is found to be old
and a patent is finally allowed by the ex-
aminer if the application in fact claims.a new
invention,
A good should have cnough |
curiosity to make him want to know the
patents and prior publications relating to the
particular devices he examines and also those
in related subjects in other divisions of the
Patent Office. He should have a
enough memory to be able to remember
where to find a description he has seen and
}enough interest in procedure to enable him
‘to acquire a knowledge of principles and
decisions in patent law and a ready, wit in
applying them to the case in hand.
| It will be readily seen that the work is
}extremely interesting. All sorts of things
icome to the United States Patent Office
| from the simple darning needle to the com- |
| plicated steam engine or printing press; from
the simple electro magnet to the most com-
| plicated system of automatic telephony or
wireless transmission of intelligence; from
electro-chemical or metallurgical
|to the refining of petroleum or the produc-
| tion of dyes or other chemicals from coal

| tar.

examiner

good

processes

The positions in the examining corps of
the Patent Office are filled initially from a |
list made up of those who pass a technical
civil and promotions
, within the office are made on a strictly merit
|system. The entrance salary has been fixed
| by .Congress at $1,860, beginning with the
1st of July, 1924, and increases of salary are
| provided for by promotion from time to time
lup to $5,000 a year. The positions are under
|the civil service and are not political. An}
Jemployee cannot be dismissed except for |
| cause after hearing, and provision is made |
|for retirement with pension in old age. |
| There are over 500 members of the ex-
amining corps and the appropriation bill for
next year makes available sufficient funds to
put in the corps about 100 additional ex-
aminers, While, the additional examiners
are ,in terms, temporary employees for about |
|two years, everyone who passes the civil |
| service examination in 1924 is practically as- |
sured of transfer to the permanent corps |
| before the two years are up. |

The civil service entrance examination in- |
cludes such subjects as are pursued by the
scientifically inclined graduate of a college |
or a technical school.

service examination,

|
|
|
|
|

The United | in the Fourth Corps Area began last week.

|sible 100 for each man.

jthe United States Patent Office.

}on the examining corps of the United States

ithe examining corps and there is no reason

In addition to physics, |

R. O. T. C. News

between all of the colleges and universities

The University of Alabama was winner last
week, with an average of 94.6 out of a pos-
Davidson did not
come out so well.

Colonel Falls is expected to visit :he col-
lege in a short time to inspect the local unic.
The local headquarters usually hear from
him about 10 days before he arrives, and are

expecting to receive a letter from him at an}

early date. |

The outdoor rifle range is being repaired,
and firing will begin about the Ist of April. |
All Freshmen will be required to fire on this
range before the semester closes.

°

The company competition which will be
held late in the spring is being planned. It is
thought that the competition will be entirely
different from the ones that have taken place
in previous years, as none of them have been
satisfactory.

The best rifle shot in college will be given
a reward of some kind when the rifle com-
petition is over. The nature of the reward
has not yet been determined. The high scor-
ers last week were: H. L. Vance and J. R.
Webb, who tied for first place.

for those interested in recreation or sports
on or in the water. The te¢hnical, scientific,
and literary institutions of the government
draw. so many conventions and general meet-
ings open to the public that it is commonly
said‘that it is a liberal education to live in
Washington,

The many fraternity houses connected with
the universities provide surroundings tending
to prolong the joys of under-graduate life.

For an educated person interested in
mechanics or industry there is probably no
more satisfactory branch of the civil service
for a life work than the examining corps of
For one
desiring to prepare for and enter a useful,
interesting, lucrative profession, there
probably no better preparation than service

1s

Patent Office
patent lawyer.

preparatory to becoming a

There are about a dozen women now in
why many more college women should not

successfully enter the Patent Office as their
contribution to public service.

Announcing Our New Location

_ Near Post Office
Norton’s Barber Shop

to each examination,

RE-EXAMINATIONS

Those who were unfortunate enough to
make less than the passing grade, and who
were fortunate enough to make within 10
units of that grade, are allowed to take a
second examination. The following sched-
ule has been posted for those concerned :

Saturday, March Ist—All examinations
with Professors Sentelle, McConnell, J. M.
Shewmake, Erwin, Currie, Arbuckle, Dendy,
Thies, and Richards.

Saturday, March 8th—All examinations
with Professors Harding, Grey, Lingle,
Foreman, Goldiere, and Blythe, and in R.
O. T. C.

Saturday, March 15th—All examinations
with Professors Douglas, J. L., Douglas, J.
M., McConnell, J. W., Wood, Porter, Brown,

land Mebane.

Examinations begin at 2:15 p. m. Receipt
from Mr, Jackson is required for admission
No examination given
on any course taken prior to January 31,
1923.
examination except_on these three days, Con-
flict examinations fnust be taken on one of
these three days.

All Seniors who are candidates for de-

. . . . !
No professor is authorized to give any |

.
gree this year are required to complete, not
later than March 15th, this year, ‘all work
toward degree except courses they ‘are actual-
ly taking on class at this time.

WILDCAT MATMEN TO MEET
TRINITY SATURDAY

Next Saturday will find Coach Weems’
matmen up against their hardest obstacle,
when they meet the Trinity grapplers at Da-
vidson. The~pildcat wrestlers will be out
to avenge defeats of two previous seasons,
tht ths ith the fact that Trinity always
turns_oGit a good mat team, assures that a
hard meet will result.

This will be Trinity's second match on an
extensive schedule, on which they meet Con-
cord “Y,” South Carolina, University of

, Florida, and the Jacksonville “Y," besides

Davidson. It will be* Davidson's fourth
match, and should find the squad in
good condition.. Comparative data gives
Trinity a decided advantage, as _ they
licked Carolina decisively last fall, and Caro-
lina defeated Davidson 5 to 3 two weeks ago.
Carolina was packing around a livelier ag-
gregation two weeks ago, however, than they
were last fall.

NONE TOO SMALL

UNN, President

R.A.D
Cc. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President

We Want Your Accouut Regardless of Its Size

The Commercial National Bank

Charlotte, N. C.

A. T. SUMMEY, V.-Pres. and Cashier
1. W.STEWART Asst. Cashier and Trust Officer
T.S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier

Capital, Surplus, Etc., Over $1,100,000.00

NONE TOO LARGE

oe]

SODA

rrr rrr rrr

r=

Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.

PARKER COLLEGE FOUNTIN PENS

AND

A SERVICE THAT CARRIES THE ENTHUSIASM
OF A CLASS RUSH

Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.

201 North Tryon St.

CIGARS

“What a whale of a difference

just a few cents make!”

| mathematics, and a reading knowledge of |
| scientific French or German, an examination |
in the reading of mechanical drawings. is |
jrequired as well as a familiarity with the |
| applied sciences in the field of mechanics, |
mechanical arts, industrial arts and processes |
‘and applied chemistry. Optional engineering |
‘examinations. may be taken. Examinations |
‘are held at many places throughout the United
{States at short intervals. Complete details |
of the examinations, as well as the time and |
|place, may be obtained from the United |

“Nothing’s too good for my
boy!”
What the “governor” says,
goes! States Civil Service Commission, Washi
States Civil Service Commission, Washing- |
A Mellon outfit complete from } jon, D. C. : |
head to toe. | There is a considerable esprit de corps
Everything college men wear-- ‘among the examiners in the Patent Office |
real college men, not the cartoon Peas ¥ fostered by the es ia Pee
. . ‘ ‘ | Office Society, made up of employees. e
varie |
pie feelers in the comic | fact that the entire examining corps is of
. - | necessity made up of those who have had}
Suits of attractive Spring, En- higher educational advantages lends dignity |
8) |
glish and_ American fabrics -- |to the. position and assures congenial work- | -
coats on easy lines, high button, { | i"& associates.
trousers fairly Side 8 » || The work is largely individual, and after
. : a few months much personal responsibility
Scotch Mist overcoats -- rain- rests with the examiner who gains addi-
prose Soft hats, caps, heavy tional experience through frequent con'ver-
rogue oxfords, unusual neck- sations with inventors and their attorneys.
wear. Everything to give a well-
dressed touch to a young man’s

It is hardly necessary to suggest that
get zp. ,Peices moderate.

Washington comes up to the tradition that
MELLON’S

—all the difference

| between just an ordinary cigarette
it is an ideal place in which to live. There and — FATIMA, the most
are no factories and few slums. There are blend in cigarette history. :
many parks well cared for. and.available for
picnics and the usual athletic diversions. The

Potomac River affords ample opportunity

au

