THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 16, 1924

7

ALUMNI NEWS

| ‘o9—Rev. C. F. Arrowood is now
located at 3505 Louisiana St., Houston,
Texas. Dr. Arrowood is professor of
Philosophy at Rice Institute, Houston.

‘to—Dr. J. C. Peden, of Tulsa, Okla.,
Was a campus visitor last week.
——— e
‘to—The Wilds Book prize was won at
Columbia Theological Seminary by H.
N. Alexander.

‘20—Floyd L. Knight was graduated
from the Medical department of the
University of Virginia in June.

*20-—Rev. R. E. MeLure has removed
trom.Garland to Leakesville, N.C.

entered the
Technology

24—Earle McKellar has
| Massachusetts Institute
lat Boston.

of

REV. JAMES RUSSELL WwooDSs

Rey. James Russell Woods, ‘18, graduate} The following men were on the Hill
of Davidson an dof Union Theological! Saturday for the Davidson-Wofford
Seminary, has recently been appointed | game: W. W. Flowe, ‘05, Concord, N.
to the chair of Church History at Union| C.; Dr. Y. W. Faison, '06, Charlotte, N.
Seminary, to succeed Dr. W. L. Lingle.! C.; Dr. E. E. Yates, ’08, Moravian Falls,
who resigned last spring to take a posi- |N. C.; Dr. Oren Moore, ‘08, Charlotte, N.
tion as President of the Assembly's! C.; H. A. Query, ‘09, Gastonia, N. C.; L.
Training School. | H. Wilkenson, ‘13, Charlotte, N. C.; Dr.
Rev, Mr. Woods distinguished himself | W. H. Sprunt, ‘14, Wilmington, N. C.;
while at Davidson and also at Union| U. S. Alexander, ‘15, Charlotte, N. C.;
Seminary where he held the Hoge Fel-|W. D. Lawson, ‘18, Gastonia, N. C.; R.
lowship. The alumni and faculty of the; H. Bennett, '16, Gastonia, N. C.; R. C.
seminary are pleased to see this im- | Garth, ‘19, Charlotte, N. C.; H. W.
portant chair go to Rey. Mr. Woods,| Davenport, ‘19, Mt. Holly, N. C.; W. F.
who, in spite of his youth, has sound the-| Hall, Jr., ‘20, Statesville, N. C.; J. D.
ological views. Their only, regret is that | Howell, ‘20, Wilmington, N, C.; Dr. J. C.
the appointment is made temporary be-| Monroe, '20, Wilmington, N. C.; J. M.
cause Professor Woods expects to go to | Gaston, Jr. ‘21, Lowell, N. C.; C. R.
China as a missionary next year. | Vance, '21, Greensboro, N. C.; George E.
| Miley, ’21, Charlotte, N. C.; C. K. Mar-
ishall, Ir., ex-'26, Gastonia, N.C. S

vr}
i]

NOTES

73—Dr. R. P. Smith, superintendent of | James E. Faw. ’15, of Atlanta, Ga., has
Home Missions, Asheville Presbytery, at- | heen advanced to the headquarters office
tended services here on Sunday. lof the American Telephone and Tele-
jgraph Co., at 195 Broadway, New York

78—C. J. Norris is now a hardware] City. Since his graduation, Mr. Faw has
merchant in Concord, N. C. |gone up step-by-step in this organiza-

eer roa ie | tion. This last promotion is in recogni-
7 A. L, anding is a physician at} tion of his unusual success in the division
Fountain Inn, S. C. jotfice at Atlanta. While in college, Mr.
Faw held several itiportant offices on
“8G, F. Robertson is pastor of the the campus, including Business Manager-
First Presbyterian Church, Bristol, Tenn. | ship of the Annual,

’0o3—Dr. T. W. Lingle conducted sery-

Engagements
ices at Back Creek last Sunday.

‘r1—The engagement of Rev. Carl B.
Craig, of Laurinburg, S. C., to Miss Mary
Eleanor Johnston, of Jefferson S. C.,
has ben announced. The wedding is to
take place on the 2nd of October.

‘o8—Rev. R. M. Stimson has been in-
stalled as pastor of the First Presbyte-
rian Church of Columbus, Ga.

’15—The engagement of Woodrow Mc-
Kay to Miss Frances Holt Montecastle,
ef Lexington, N. C. has been announced.
The wedding will take place this fall.

OST: Pyramid Club Pin, Return

to Jim Kuykendall, 114 West.

DOI

Lene Pharmacy, Inc.

SODA CIGARS
PARKER COLLEGE FOUNTIN PENS

AND.

A SERVICE THAT CARRIES THE ENTHUSIASM
OF A CLASS RUSH

Lynch’s Pharmacy, Ine.

201 North Tryon St

[Pewee swe w eww wen e swans conn nanan nna snows anew nnn mene enwwnwe

(reszs

III rrr rrr rrr tt ittiitiitirttitriititiitt7iitiitit titi gir |

NONE TOO SMALL NONE TOO LARGE

We Want Y. ur Account Regardless of Its Size

The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.

R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY. Vice-President

» STEWART Cashier and Trust Office
DOAR, Asst. Trust Officer

IW.
J.B.
T.S. aes Assistant Cashier

Capital, Surplus, Etc., Over $1,200,000.00

beginning preparations for the big game

Americanization Theme

early.
re | of Lecture to Students
| ania LOMBARD ENTERTAINS AT
Baldwin Gouse, Well-Known Lec- SHEARER HALL, OCT. 23
Marriages | turer Addresses Several Classes

12--Irvine C. Crawford was married in |
June to Miss Dorothy Kime White, of ,

Mebane, N. C., and is living at 320 S.
Mendenhall St., Greensboro, N. C.

Deaths

‘’1—Thomas J. Allison, prominent in
western North Carolina democratic poli-
tics for many years, died in a Statesville
hospital, October toth. He had been an
invalid for three years as result of pa-
He was United States Marshal
under Grover Cleveland.

ralysis.

‘78—-F. T. Morgan, of Charleston, S. C,,
died last week.

HONORARY FRATERNITIES

(Continued from page 1)
as well as at the other colleges, in which its
chapters are located. Believing that  mili-

tary service is an obligation of citizenship, |
and that the greater opportunities afforded |

college men for the study of military science:
place upon them certain responsibilities as
citizens, certain cadet officers in Davidson
and other American college and universities

‘|have formed a society, which will unite in

closer relationship the military departments
with the colleges, and will preserve and de-
velop the essential qualities of good. and
efficient officers. To be initiated into the
Seabbard and Blade a man must first have
attained the rank of a commissioned officer

in the cadet corps, and must have distinguish- |

ed himself on the drill ground as well as in
the class room.

Alpha Phi Epsilon, one of the leading na-
tional forensic organizations, is represented
on-the Davidson campus with a strong chap
ter. It recognizes leadership in forensic and
literary society work, and its membership in-
cludes those students who as membefs of the
literary societies, or the inter-collegiate de-
bating teams have excelled in this specific
line of activity. The fraternity was found-
ed at the University of Alabama, April 18,
1918; and now has its branches in many of
the Jeading colleges of the nation.

Delta Pi Kappa, a local journalistic fra-
ternity, confines its membership to men who
have shown especial talent along journalistic
lines, and who have distinguished themselves
as members of the staffs of the various col-
lege publications. It was founded at David-
son College in 1920, and has been of great
aid in raising the Davidson magazine and
weekly to the places of prestige they now
occupy in the world of college publications.

Sigma Upsilon, founded at the University
of the South in 1906, is perhaps the leading
honorary fraternity on the campus, devoting
itself to the recognition of valuable servies
in every branch of literary endeavor. Mem
bership in the organization is open only to
men who have been outstanding during their
undergraduate years in literary work, espe-
cially work along journalistic lines. Prof,
E. J. Erwin, of Davidson, is president of the
national organization.

Gamma Sigma Epsilon, founded at David-
son College, 1920, and now one of the lead
ing national chemical associations, occupics
a peculiar place among the honorary organi-
zations on the campus. Founded by students
of Davidson in 1920, under the leadership 01
Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, head of the Chemistry
department, the gradually
broadened its scope until it now has chapters
in five of the leading universities of the
South. Dr. Arbuckle, one of the founders
and leader and advisor of the mother chapter,
is also grand chancellor of the national or-
ganization. Its members are those who have
attained eminence in chemical work during
several years of undergraduate activity.

association has

Sigma Pi Sigma, a local physics fraternity.
organized at Davidson in 1921, recognizes
and rewards excellence in physics. The pres-
ent roll of the organization includes the

‘names of those men who have been outstand-

ing in the work of the Physics department,

}and whose talents and ambitions are espe-
cially adapted to this line of acivity.

PROFESSOR HEATH

(Continued from page 1)

lish West Indies, which has now become a

possession of the United States. He was,
prepared for college at Yorkshire, England,
and later graduated from the Moravian Col-
lege and Moravian Theological Seminary at |
Bethlehem, Pennsylvania.- For several years |
after his graduation he was an educational |
worker in the British West Indies, but for |
the past 11 years Mr. Heath has been pro- |
fessor of History jin Salem College. |

on the Hill

It is a true saying that the successful

ETE man is he who laughs often, lives well
Choosing as the theme of his lecture|/and leaves the world better than he
the broad subject of Americanization, | found it. Harry Lombard, organizer and
Baldwin W. Gouse, widely known lec- | manager of the Lombard Entertainers
turer and writer, spoke to the education | can qualify under this digest as a most
and political science classes of Dr.| successful man. He goes a step farther,
Fraser Hood last Thursday morning, de-| however, and makes others laugh and
\livering a very forceful address on prop- | sheds brightness and beauty through the
er law enforcement. In dealing with his | program which is presented by his re-
subject, Mr. Gouse, treated in) minute; markable company.

detail with the fallacy of law enforce-
ment in America today, and urged that |
his audience bear in mind that the prop- |
er place to enact a repeal of a national |
statute is in Congress, not in failure to|
abide by the provisions of the act. |

He used apt illustrations of this point,
one of the leading ones of which was his |
citation the present Eighteenth |
Amendment to the Constitution, com- |
monly known as the “Bone-dry clause.” |
He insisted that if the prohibition law |
had become distasteful to the American
public, it time for’an appeal to
Congress for its repeal. Daily failure to|
jenforce this statute and a host of other |
‘national laws is fast leading the nation |
away from the real Americanization, he |
pointed out. |

of

|
was
|

TWO SOLID ROWS OF GREY
STANDS ON RICHARDSON

The three thousand bleachers ordered
by the Athletic Association a short while
Lage have arrived and were in use for the
| first time at Saturday's game. They were
}put up on Wednesday and Thursday
with the aid of the students.
| Davidson students have a right to be
{proud of Richardson Bield, It is one of
ithe best athletic fields in the state and
lWwith its new bleachers’ presents a much
better appearance than formerly. It
now has seating capacity of 5,000
| people.

Evidence was given Saturday, how-
ever, that other arrangements
would have to be made for the accom-
modation the that come to
see Davidson's team in action, Arrange-
ments are now under way for the rental
of more bleachers for the Carolina
game here on November 15. A
crowd is expected then as it is the big-
and important game here this

| a
on
soon

of crowds

record
pest Most
year.

Old Davidson graduates and other fol-
lowers of Davidson are expected in large

‘been narrowed down to five.
lin the tournament are, EM. McCutch-

numbers. The Athletic Association is

ip

in your own home.

Independence

- McAlister Carson, Manager

(errr rrr

A $5.00 bill will purchase youa $250.00 personal
effects policy which protects you against fire and
theft on all of your wearing apparel, Tennis
Racquet, Golf Clubs and all other personal
property anywhere other than having it stored

Write or see

Insurance Department

Phone 3940

For eight years he was baritone with
the English Opera Company and
known not only as a singer but also for
his ability as a comedian of high rank.

Two artists, feminine and gracious, as-
sisted Mr. Lombard in the presentation
of a program that is entertaining and
delightful and as clean and wholesome
as mountain air.

1s

This excellent company will appear as
one of the numbers on the Lyceum
course at Shearer Hall on Thursday
night, October 23rd.

FIVE MEN STILL FIGHTING IN
TENNIS TOURNAMENT

The eleven contestants of last week
for the second tennis team have now

Those still

eon, R. W. Carr, R. Crosland, R. B. Park-
er, and J. G. Parks. Four of these five
men will compose the second team. The
winner of the tournament will be the
fifth man on the varsity, for the first
mateh which will be held during the first
of November, After this the places on
the varsity team for the year will be
fought for by the men of the first and
second teams. Although the tournament
is supposed to be about over the places
on the second team are far from being
certain, Several men who have been
eliminated intend challenging those on
the team and it is quite possible that
things will be changed around yet.

Manager Mack Beall intends having a
mateh here during the first of Novem-
ber. A match with the University of
Virginia on November tst is pending and
if this cannot be arranged it is probable
that Carolina will be here the Friday be-
fore the football game. At any rate the
students are ‘practically sure of having
a good tennis match on the hill this fall.

Better tennis is being played this year
than usual and the prospects for a win-
ning team are very bright.

Trust Company

Charlotte, N. C.

Pre rrrrrrrr}

Young Men’s

BELK BROS.

CHARLOTTE

Headquarters For

Special Values Being Offered in
Wide Bottom Pants

In one or two piece suits at $25.00 to $29.50

The New Style Bell Bottom Pants

ia Light, Medium and Dark Shades at $4.95 and $6.95
Trade With Us and Save Money
| | :

College Suits

7]
