6

’ THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 10, 1924

Biddle Boys Bring Back
Better Bygone Ballads

Sweet Harmony Singers of Queen
City to Make Chariot Swing Low
in Concert

The Biddle Quintette and Orchestra will
appear at Davidson on Friday night, foster-
ed by the business staff of The Davidsonian.
This performance was scheduled for Friday
night, April 4th, but due to the illness of
one of the members of the quintette, it was
thought best to postpone the engagement
until a later date.

The group is made up of a quintette, coin-
prising some of the best colored voices of
he South, and a Jazz Orchestra, well adver-
tised for the brand of syncopation it manu-
factures for its hearers. Almost all of the
singers and players have appeared at David-
son before, and the quality of their perform-
ance need not be questioned; neither the
quantity, because, heretofore, they have al-
ways been more than accommodating towards
the students when they called for encores,
which are sure to be forthcoming. To those
who have heard them, nothing further in the
way of advertisement need be said, and to
those who have not, there is only the ad-
monition not to miss this one ‘chance of
heartng the treat of a whole college year.

All earnings from the performance go
into the fund for The Davidsonian. Not
only is it a worthy entertainment, but for a
worthy cause as well, and with this double
attraction the promise of a large crowd is

Literary Societies

Eumenean

The negative of the bill: Resolved, That
the Monroe Doctrine, as developed today,
should be disregarded as the foreign policy
of the United States, won at the Eumenean
Society last Thursday, Barr and J. D. Laws
spoke on the affirmative, and S. W. Brown,
P. B. Freeland, C. L, Bragaw, R. R. Jones
and A. N. Moffett upheld the negative. Pres-
ident J. I. Smith presided and T. D. Rogers
took the vice-president’s chair. The review-
er recommended all the speakers for credits.
R. R. Jones and A. N. Hillhouse were ap-

respectively, next Thursday.

Pandeinic

In the Pandeinic Society, the Whigs, rep-
resented by Treverton, Milton and J. E,
Moore, presented the affirmative side of the
question, Resolved, That the Monroe Dos-
trine as a part of our forcign policy should
be abolished. E. K, Regen, H. L. Currie,
M. C. Yeargin and S. W. Moore spoke
against this proposal. The decision was
rendered in favor of the Tories, who were
upholding the negative.

Metrophilian
The subject for discussion at the last regu-
lar mecting of the Metrophilian Literary
Society was, Resolved, That the Monroe
Doctrine should be abolished.
The parliamentary system which was in-

pointed to lead the affirmative and negative, | )
| Senior Debater’s Medal this year in the|
| Metrophilian Society, and is showing up|

Honorary Forensic Frat
Elects New Membership

in Debating, Taken in by Society

At a meeting of Alpha Phi Epsilon, hon-
orary forensic fraternity, two weeks ago, the
following men were extended bids and have
accepted: Archie Ray, J. F. Holshouser, A.
N. Moffett, P. M. Patterson, Angus Mc-
Bryde, Perrin Hudgins, and A. H. Hollings-
worth. This fraternity is open for those
who have shown special ability and pro-
ficiency along debating lines.

of this honor. Archie Ray won the Junior-

j well in Junior Speaking, having won a place
jin the try-outs,

| Moffett won the Junior-Senior Medal in
the Eumenean Society, and his speeches are
characterized by a great deal of spirit.

Holshouser won the Debater’s’ Medal in
|the Philanthropic Society and is a fiery
speaker with much promise.

Paul Patterson has gone out for both in-
| tercollegiate. debates of this year, and is
alternate for the present debating teams. It
jis very probable he will be one of the main
| debaters for Davidson next year,

| Angus McBryde is president of the Metro- |

philian Society, and while not a member of
| the debating team still he has shown much
interest and enthusiasm along forensic lines.

Perrin Hudgins is on the champion team

Men Who Have Shown Proficiency

Each of the hew members are deserving |

Metros Defeat Eu Team
In Fresh-Soph Debate

McIntosh, Parker, and Pullen Win
in Final Debate Against
Eumenean Team

The Metrophilians were victors over the
| Eumenean trio in the finals of the Fresh-
| Soph Debating contest, held in Eu_ hall,
| Tuesday night, April 1st. President Angus
| McBryde, of the Metrophilian Society, called
|the meeting to order at 8:30 o'clock, fol-
|lowing the regular meeting of the Metro-
| philians.

The Eumeneans upheld the affirmative of
the query, Resolved, That the, Bok Peace
Plan should be adopted as it now stands.
G. T. McCutchen opened the argument for
the affirmative, and Claude McIntosh, of the
negative, followed. F. K. Bell and W. C.
Ogden, for the Eumenean, and R. B. Parker
and E. T. Pullen, for the Metro, were the
other speakers, representing their respective
sides in the order named. _

At the conclusion of the spirited debate,
the judges, who were composed of Profs. W.
| J. Porter and W. W. Wood, and Mr. D. B.
| Van Sant, gave a two to one decision for
| the negative.

E. T. Pullen was awarded the Fresh-Sopn
Debater’s Medal for the Metrophilian So-
ciety, and W. C. Ogden was winner of the
| Eumenean medal,

| In the semi-finals, in which the Pandeinic

| cided, H. L. Shaw was voted the winner in

jand Philanthropic Society medals were de-!

NORRIS TROPHY ELECTION

(Continued from page 1)
Graduate Manager of Athletics, Pres-
ident of the Student Body, the Alumni
Secretary and Chairman of the Faculty
Athletic Committee.

A special honor will be bestowed upon
the one of the three men above named
who is elected.

Nappy Davis has received four letters
in basketball and three letters in football.
He was captain of the basketball team
this year and is captain-elect of the foot-
ball team for next year. He is also a
present member of the Wildcat track
team.

Flake Laird is now a two letter man at
Davidson, having won two letters in bas-
ketball where he has played steady ball
at forward, and one letter received for
his work as guard on the football team.
He is now on the Davidson roster of
pitchers and will doubtless receive his
letter in baseball this year,

Sook Boggs, for two years stellar guard
of the Davidson baskeeters and one year
guard on the football team, received the
third largest number of votes in the
popularity preliminaries. He has receiv-
ed high mention as All-State material as
a basketball guard.

Correct this sentence: “I always keep
quiet in chapel when the announcements
are being read, so that I can know what
they are about.”

doubly sure, augurated two weeks ago showed its’ merits | of the Junior-Senior debaters, and won the | the Pandeinic, and B. U. Ratchford won the! f{™ — ay
In Eee arpa 4 Get iat 1 | medal in the Pandeinic Society. | decision in the Philanthropic. | NAT San !
t the last meeting the presiden appointed | A. H. Hollingsworth was t lebating} Medals will be < y : 5 °
WILDCATS OUTPOINTED SETH _._| A. H. Hollingsworth was on the debating edals will be awarded during commence- | | showin
two men, J. E. Singletary and W. M. Gracey, | team last fall, when he and Stith won over | ment. a
|

as respective leaders of the two factions, the |
Radicals and the Conservatives. These men |
continued as leaders, the Radicals taking the
affirmative, Both sides were supported by th
several men who made short, snappy talks |
both in favor of and against the question, |

Philanthropic

(Continued from page 1)
the high jump, and a tie for second place
in the pole-vault,

Culbreth, of V. P. I, was a close run-
nerup for first honors, netting a total
of 18 points. He won first place in the
high jump, broad jump and low hurdles,

Trinity. He is one of the best speakers in
school and well deserves the honor.

Alpha Phi Epsilon has about 15 chapters
the South, and encourages interest in ora |
tory and debating.

SIX .MEN WIN PLACES |

(Continued from page 1)

| Obtige, dealing with the white man’s duty

HIGH HONOR MAN WILL jtGward the negro, [ean

|
!

third in the high hurdles, and tied for At a very interesting mecting of the Phil-| ADDRESS Y. M. C. A. Jim Carr spoke on Internationalism. He at |
second place with Gracey in the pole anthropic Society, Thursday night, the so-| traced the development of nationalism in the PARLOR OF WEST

vault? Roberts for the Gobblers won ciety was divided into two parties, and| W, ¢. McLaughlin, Returned Mis. | "ictcenth century and of internationalism Y |
two first Places on the “cinder path, leaders of cach were elected. This was in| sionary, Will Speak Sunday during the twentieth century. MONDA : |
winning the 100 and 440 dashes, compliance with the parliamentary plan whieia| ‘ Afternoon From all indications the Junior contest APRIL 14 |

Red Anderson made the second highest

number of points for Davidson, with 12
to his credit, and Koenig came third
with nine. Gracey, Andrews and Koenig
combined made 41 of the total David-
son counters,

Following is a summary of the events:

1oo-yard dash—Roberts (V. P, I.) first;
Koenig (Davidson) second; Smith (Da-
vidson) third. Time, 10 4-5 seconds.

220-yard dash — Koenig (Davidson)
first; Hogan (V. P. I.) second; Jones (V.

P. I.) third. Time, 24 seconds proposed by W. G, Houck. The bill was| The students will remember Mr. McLaugh- Dyeing Dry Cleaning Pressing
Maptyerd Vaheaerntnna (V P 1B) Gla upheld by J. L. McLean, R. J. Smith and} in’s being here a few weeks ago to lead Shoe Shine In Connection
Hogan (V. P. 1) acOPA eats (1D We E. E. Lingle, and was opposed by W. G.| chapel. He made such a good impression on
Bony ahitdhi atin oT eo ead (David-) Houck, E, D. Brown, and W. R. Story. As|the student body at that time that a full at- Largest Oldest Best
880-yard run—Watkins (V. P. I.) first; Wie of a te in the votes, the bill was | tendance is assured for next Sunday night. 8 E. Trade St. CHARLOTTE

Newman (V, P. I.) second; Davis (David-
son) third. Time, 2 minutes, 11 seconds.

Mile run—Jackson (V. P. I.) first;
Newman (V. P. I.) second; McConnell
(Davidson) third. Time, 4 minutes, 43
2-5 seconds,

Two-mile run—Richards (V. P. I.) first;
Williford (Davidson) second; Rhoden (V.
P. I.) third. Time, 10° minutes, 55
seconds,

120-yard high hurdles—Gracey (David-
son) first; Anderson (Davidson) second;
Culbreth (V. P.1.)) third, Time, 17
seconds,

220-yard low hurdles—Culbreth (V. P.
1.) first; Maurice (V. P. I.) second; An-
derson (Davidson) third. Time, 27 2-5
seconds.

High Jump—Culbreth (V. P. I.) first;
Gracey (Davidson) second; Bradford
(Davidson) and Ellis (V. P. I.) tied for
third. Height, 5 feet, 9 inches.

Broad Jump—Culbreth (V. P. I.) first;
Barnette (V. P. I.) second; Buck (David-
son) third. Distance, 21 feet, 4 1-2 inches.

the society recently adopted. The names
chosen for the parties were the Conservatives
and the Radicals; E. D. Brown was elected
leader of the former and J. L. McLean is to
lead the Radicals. J. E. Holshouser: was
authorized to form another party, under the
name of Socialists, to be under his leader-
ship.

In the absence of J. E. Gudger, the Gud-
ger bill, providing for the immediate turning
over of Muscle Shoals to Henry Ford, was

The inmates of the Infirmary the past
week were: C. A, Long, W. H. Sharpe, J.
R. Morrison, J. T. Kirkman, J. T, DeArmon
and J. W. Liles.

Pi Kappa Alpha announces the pledging
of T. T. Jones, ’27, and W. F. Taylor, ’27.

Pole Vault—Anderson (Davidson) first;
Gracey (Davidson) and Culbreth (V. P.
I) tied for,second and third, Height, 10
feet, 6 inches.

Shot Put—Gracey (Davidson) first;
Holly (V. P. I.) second; De Labar (A¥%,, 12),
I.) third. Distance, 36 feet, 8 1-2 inches.

Discus Throw—Holly (V. P. I.) first;
De Labar (V. P. I.) second; Cox (David-
son) third, Distance, 114 feet, 1-2 inch.

Javelin Throw — Gracey (Davidson)
first; Anderson (Davidson) second; De
Labar (V. P. 1.) third. Distance, 147 feet,
& inches.

The “Y” will have as its speaker Sunday,
April 13th, Mr. W. C. McLaughlin. Mr.
McLaughlin is a missionary and is located
at Suchen, China, and is now home on a fur-
lough. His work in China has been notable.
He is an old Davidson man, of the class of
1907, and is remembered more than anything
else for the unsurpassed record he made in
his Senior year in college™ In both semesters
he made an average of 100 per cent.

He is a splendid speaker and will no doubt
bring us a real message from his work,

CONSTRUCTION STARTED ON
NEW CHAMBERS BUILDING

Authorities in charge of construction on
the new Chambers building state that the
south wing will be ready for occupancy by
the opening of the new term. °

Excavation work is under way and tool
and niaterial houses have been constructed
near the site of the proposed building. Ma-
terials are being placed, and actual con-
struction will be started within the next two
weeks, it is stated.

The extent of the excavations reveals the
fact that the new building will be even larger
than old Chambers. The two tennis courts
immediately in front of the gymnasium will
be included in the site, and the wings will
extend over a greater area than was oc-
cupied by the former building.

Work will be carried to completion as
soon as is practicable but tio sacrifice in the

M, Patterson is timekeeper.

‘

|

this year will prove to be interesting, and it
is hoped that a large crowd will be present
to hear the speakers contest for the medal.

CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN
ee

CENTRAL HAT SHOP
and

MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB

that’s an improvement.

_This cap stays put!

Other caps get lost but the new Williams
Hinge-Cap stays where you want it.

er

Truly,

efficiency of construction will be made even Like the cap, the shaving cream ins the
‘ ke of time. E i il Seaaayies
CHARLOTTE — MOORESVILLE — STATESVILLE Uae Sete, EU UERE Will be Williams tube is a big improvement, too. For
done to make Chambers the most modern and aa : ; 5
WHITE BUS LINE useful college building in the state. Williams lather is heavier and faster-working.
Leaves Charlotte It holds the water in, so that your pesrd ie
softened sooner. And the lather lubricates. ie
Charlotte:-.-. -.-. __.. _____ Bes a af Heed Bt 5 a WILDCAT DEBATERS razor fairly glides over your skin! Because of a
baie eville o> w--- ---- ---- 8:10 11:10 1:40 6:10 (Continued from page 1) soothing ingredient in Williams you can shave
Dee aS ibse AER O25 8 | alternates in inter-collegiate debates last oor eset Save. ven encesn init ered
Mooresville -.-. -.-. -_-. -.__ 8:45 11:45 2:15 6:45 year, while Little, who came to David- for face. Williams is pure, natural-w na e cream,
Troutman meee cone ---- ---- 9:15 12:15 2:50 7:15 son from Tulane this year, is reputed to Absolutely without coloring matter. Buy it, try
ptatesvilleeees conc co 9:30 12:30 3:05 7:30 erarocdlepenier: it—with the new Hinge-Cap!
Leaves Statesville Arrangements for both debates have e @ :
A. M. A. M. P. M. P. M. been in the hands of the debating coun-
Stotesyille ~~... -..- _.. 8:00 10:00 x 2:00 4:30 cil, under the supervision of P. M. Pat- |
tee RECS 248 $40 $ |tets0", alternate of both teams and bus-
PURVIONON Soe ose cu 9:00 10:55 3:00 5:25 sness manager. ; : : e
pei pee ner Se 9:05 11:00 3:05 5:30 The Emory men in the order in which : :
Huntersville -. --.. -.._ ____ 9:20 11:20 3:20 5:45 they speak are: J. T. Maxwell, Maxwell m
lotte ---- -... ---. ---. 10:00 12:00. 4:00 6:30 Rose, and H. M. Bullock. Dr. W. H. 3 Uae Vv Ob Wess
PIRES i psn op Fer Further Information See Driver Frazer will be the presiding officer, P. : : we

The J. B. Williams Co., ‘Glastonbury, Conn.
