THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 20, 1924

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class’

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the |

Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

deat-with facts-as~ has every newspaper
writer, but he must deal with personal
opinion as well.

Even in his facts the writer is handicap-
ped. The reporter who covers a murder
case presents the facts to the public, and the
public is satisfied; they did not see the mur-
der, and they are perfectly willing to accept

_the-newspaper version of the affair. Not so

in the case of the sport writer who tells the
story of a football game. Thousands saw
the contest, and in the mind of each a pic-
ture of the game is formed. Some incident
of the contest which seemed to some to have
been the outstanding play may.pass un-
noticed in the news story; a player may not

have received the mention which a group of |

the spectators think he deserved; the play

| of the teams in general may have been sized

up wrongly in the views of some. It is all
the fault of the sporting editor.

Obviously, it is impossible to satisfy all.

; There will always be some to find fault and

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE._...--..---..Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN......._.-_Business Manager
Editorial Staff
Cc. F. SMITH. Managing Editor |
W. E. MILTON... Assistant Managing Editor

C. F. MONK... ssistant Managing E
ASE SIMPSON Gasssso ies aes Peanut Parcher i
F A. LAKE ieee ssociate i

ae Bia PRIGHessesse ees Associate Editor
Him AWesuiccsaccessecuavecseegeieaceuge Associate Editor
G. D. ROGERS ---Alumni Editor
L. D. eprpeeyy rye pny eye y ety fy Athletic Editor

Business Staff

1; A, THOMPSON -----Circulation Manager
» C. MceSWAIN -Subscription Manager
C. R. HUNTER. ----Bookkeeper
iy bt GARRISON rvice Manager
eH Pe YN OHS ea eee Typist
REPORTERS’ CLUB
L. B. GIBBS, Pres: R. H. McILWAINE
D. G. WILSON, V.-Pres. G. McMILLAN
A. Y. BOWIE, Scc.-Treas. J. E. MOORE
jj M. APPLEBY E. P. O'CONNOR
1. M. AUSTIN R. B. PARKER
W. H. BRANCH B. Y. PITTS
W._T, COVINGTON B. U. RATCHFORD
J. M. GARRISON FE, K. REGEN
A i JodgNesWorTH I: By REO EON
Pay NE! .« D. WHA
W. H. LYNCH Ww. S. BsoN

THE UNIVERSITY AND DAVIDSON

AST Saturday the Carolina Tar Heels

won from Davidson by the margin of

two drop kicks in the final minutes of
play, in one of the best battles ever staged
between the two teams. It was the twenty-
third game between the two schools and the
sixteenth win for the Tar Heels. Of the
other seven games, Davidson has won three
and four ended in scoreless ties,

The feeling of rivalry has always been in-
tense between the University and Davidson,
but it has never been tinged with any ill feel-
ing of any type. The twenty-eight years
which have passed since the first Carolina-
Davidson battle have been marked through-
out by cordial relations, Always fighting
against odds, Davidson regards a victory

over Carolina as the height of achievement |

; ERE ; | work they have held their own against all
and always plays her hardest against the | > Ulete\y MEN 8

Tar Heels.

In a letter published in Bailey Groome’s
One Man’s Opinion on Sport Topics last Sun-
day, Davidson, was paid one of the high-
est compliments which it has ever been her
honor to receive. The letter from Mr. D. B.
Smith, a Carolina alumnus follows:

“To the Sports Editor of The Observer:

“I want to take this opportunity to com-
mend the fine sportsmanlike spirit of the
Davidson team, and Davidson student hody.
As a Carolina man IT would have been ter-
Tibly disappointed to seesCarolina lose and
as it turned out, we didn’t have much to
crow over, but what did my heart good was
to observe the generous, cordial and sports-
manlike treatment the Carolina team receiv-
ed on Richardson field. When Carolina was
giving signals, the five or six hundred David-
son students, courteously, stopped their
rooting so the Carolina players could hear
the signals, and between the halves the Da-
vidson students gathered in the field and
gave cheer after cheer for Carolina. All in
all, it constituted as fine an instance of
courteous, generous treatment, of our op-
ponents as I have ever observed in any
athletic contest. ae

“Here’s all good wishes for the further
success of Davidson’s plucky fighting Wild-
cats. a

(Signed)
“D. B. Smith.”

In regard to the treatment of Davidson
teams at Chapel Hill, the same thing may be
said. Last year at Chapel Hill the Carolina
rooters accorded the Davidson team the
Same courtesy, which has always marked
relations between the schools, Until last
year the home and home basis was adopted,
and now the games will alternate between
Davidson and Chapel Hill.

With no school in the state. are relations
more cordially established than with Caro-
lina, and the good feeling which has existed
between Tar Heel and Wildcat is now at its
height. Davidson will always regard the
University as her most bitter rival—and her
best friend.

RECOGNITION

No one‘man has to bearas much criticism
in his work as the sporting editor of a daily
newspaper. After due observation, we feel
that the sweeping statement made above is
true. For a sporting editor not only has to

?

| a sport of amateurs.

claim that the story is the product of a
biased mind. And from followers of sport
on every side the sporting editor is criti-
cized, sometimes justly and sometimes un-
justly. However, the criticism of the facts
as seen in the mind of the editor is not near-
ly so frequent as the criticism of his person-
al views as expressed in a column devoted to
that purpose.

During the fall months the colleges come
into the limelight on the sporting pages all
over the nation.
for amateur sport, for football is essentially
The dope on the
strength of teams forms a large share of the
sporting news. In past seasons the David-
son students have felt that papers, which
naturally should have been friendly to them,
were prejudiced against them and were not

With the College Editors

Chaff

THE TRUE COLLEGE MAN

Too much has ben said by overzealous reform-
ers throughout this country in regard to the col-
lege or university as a means of wasting time.
The fairminded person is willing to concede that
there is a great deal of time and energy spent by
the college man on outside activities. The value
of the training and experience derived from the
outside depends of course upon their nature.

Such activities as debating, athletics, profes-
sional apprenticeship and the like are clearly
beneficial to the person engaging in them. It is
urged that the college man spends more of his
precious time in social activities such as dances,
card games, and girls than is good for him. But it
must be remembered that the student who so
spends his time at college is more than apt to act
in the same way at home where even more lat-
itude is permitted. The college is not to be
blamed for the excess of the individual.

On the other hand there is, at every college,
a group of earnest workers who have come for
the purpose of acqtiring and assimulating knowl-
edge. From the beginning in every institution of
of colleges, this group has been present, and de-
spite the dolorous and dismal predictions of
pucrile pessimists this class of students has con-
tinued to increase. By the foregoing statements

, | we do not mean to defend the type of students
It is the season of seasons |

known as the “bookworm.” This peculiar speci-
men, commonly known as “human sponge,” be-
cause of his characteristic ability to soak up
knowledge is not a representative of the true col-
lege man.

The true college man is one who has had ex-

| perience in all the many phases of activity pres-

giving them their just deserts, either in the |

matter of write-ups or comments.

This fall the attitude of Charlotte has
seemingly changed, This attitude of good
will toward Davidson is reflected in the
sporting departments of the Charlotte Ob-
server, and the write-ups and comments on
the fighting Wildcats are appreciated to the

| fullest by the members of the student body.

Criticism of write-ups has for many years
been a fruitful topic of discussion on the

ent on the campus of his college or university.
He acquires enough knowledge in the class-rooms

| to pass his examinations creditably: he mixes in

campus, but the attitude of the Observer this |

season has changed the criticism into ap-

preciation,
After several

Wildcats are staging a comeback which is

unsuccessful seasons ‘the |

gaining recognition throughout the Caro- |

linas. With the lightest line in the state by |

many pounds, by sheer precision of team-

the beef and brawn which has opposed them.
We thank the Observer for their recognition
of the Red and Black machine,

Open Forum

(This department is conducted by the editor, for the
benefit of those members of the student body, or faculty,
who desire to express their opinions on any matter which
might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of
the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted
for the betterment of campus life, and that the students
will express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted
discussion on campus problems. The names of the writers
will be withheld from publication, if such is the desire of
the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor
of The Davidsonian by 7:00 p. m. Monday.)

’ THINKING

A friend is one who thinks more about what
he can give than what he can get. Who are
your friends?) What kind of a friend are you?

The ability to work is one of God’s greatest
gifts to man. The man who gets the most out
of life is the one who works. How busy are
you? Are you busy with the things that count?

Have you ever thought that no one ever had
any more time than you have? Time waits for
no man. Do you use all of it as it passes? A
man who wastes his own time wastes his own
life.

The world makes way for a man who knows
where he is going. Where are you aiming with
your life? Think one minute about this ques-
tion!

Are you a slave of habit? Do habits of sel-
fishness, laziness, and inefficiency dominate your
life?

Do you really think five minutes a day?

Vo 1D); 1b,

THE DRAMATIC CLUB

Since last Saturday night when the Dramatic
Club presented its three one-act plays, the whole
campus has been talking about their quality and
the ability of the actors to play their parts. It
was very noticeable that each of the players had
been picked with care, and that the cast of char-
acters fitted each member precisely. The last
play, especially, was good, although all of them
were exceptionally well-written and acted.

The success of the club last Saturday night
was due to the untiring efforts and work of
Prof. E, J, Erwin, the faculty member of tue
club, and director of the plays. Under his lead-
ership the characters worked up their parts to
perfection, and acted with marked ability, which
brought’ forth much favorable comment from all
who were in the audience.

social activities to a reasonable extent; he affili-
ates hiimself with clubs and societies to work to
promote fellowship and the spirit of brother-
hood without which college life is a dismal fail-
ure; and last but most important of all, the true
college man has ideals of loyalty to his school—
loyalty such as the Lethe of business life after
graduation will not efface from his memory.

Men like this are real assets to a college—
The Florida Alligator.

BE A SPORT

The Open Forum heretofore has been char-
acterized by so-called “mud-slinging articles”
aimed at every institution on the Hill, from Col-
lege Spirit (which the writer believes has grown
better every day for the past three years) to our
“mossback faculty” and shallow brained “student
body.”

There are many things at Davidson which we
are justly proud of; there are many things that
we lack that we certainly need; yet there are
some institutions, traditions, and habits cherish-
ed by many of our “leading men” which are, to
an observer, very repulsive. I do not pose as a
reformer to make Davidson a perfect college, but
there is one habit practiced by many of our stu-
dents which deserves to be mentioned. That is
reading newspapers in chapel.

We are justified in assembling five or ten min-
utes before time for morning prayers to read our
papers or to review our History or Political
spots; and if one is not inclined to help in the
singing he is at liberty to read during this part
of the program without being reprimanded for it.
However, I do believe that when men who pose
as student body leaders insist upon reading the
sport page while the prayer leader is reading the
scripture lesson; when many of the Senior class
who have been elected to positions of leadership
and honor by the student body continue to read
while some member of the faculty is praying—
then a so-called “mud-slinging” article is entirely
in order,

Let us consider it from a purely selfish point
of view, by diverting our attention from all books
and newspapers for fifteen minutes in the morn-
ing we are refreshed and enabled to concentrate
better on class and study periods throughout the
day even though we have no _ conscientious
scruples against the chapel hour for study and
recreation; we owe it to ourselves to refrain from
the habit.

Perhaps this would be unnoticed among just
any student body but being prevalent among that
of Davidson is most detestable. I do not wish
to set our Alma Mater on a pinnacle and say,
“Davidson men alone are pure, holy, and unde-
filed—they only are worthy of emulation.” But
we all know and we are justly proud that David-
son men, whether on or off the Hill, are admired
and thought of as being men of good character,
pure habits, and above all—good sports. We al-
ways wish to give the other fellow a fair chance.
This was shown in Saturday’s game when the
students ceased to yell while Carolina was call-
ing signals.

However, when we read the paper while the
profs lead in prayer we do not give him a fight-
ing chance, neither do we display a°true David-
son Spirit by setting a bad example for the other
men who are to some extent interested in the
chapel exercises.

As consistent, rational thinking men, let us re-

MILKSOP’S FABLES—NO. 93786-R

“Halt! Who goes there?” cried M. Tullius
Crassionius, the sentinel of the night, as he drew
his toga closer around his quaking form and
came down to port arms with his Smith and Go-
eastern double-bladed hog sticker.

“A friend with a special message to the cap-
tain,” said the almost invisible object in the front
of the bewildered and frightened rookie.

M. Tullius readjusted his hog-sticker with one
hand, and with the other he firmly gripped the
handle of his seventy-nine cent Gillette that he
had purchased at Woolworth’s the evening be-
fore, and bellowed, “Advance to be recognized.”
When the stranger had come within distance of
being recognized, M. Tullius found out that it
was his old friend and side-kick in the army of
the Marne,—none other than Patrick O’Toole,
who had been sent on a scouting trip by the cap-
tain in the vain hope of locating a machine gun
nest. In an instant the two were talking together,
and after lighting up cigarettes M. Tullius asked
the giant Patrick what had become of his cam-
paign hat and his grenade discharged. Pat re-
plied that one of those’ wops in the enemy’s
trenches had taken them away from him while he
was taking a short nap, and that the dirty hound
tried to take his javelin and spear and canteen,
but that he chased the villian for about three
parasangs and shot him in the.leg with a poison
arrow and got them back.

After a friendly chat of several minutes Pat
left M. Tullius and went to headquarters to re-
port to the captain, but had to wait ouside be-
cause the captain was figuring out a plan with the
aid of his staff as to the best way to tr, nsport
the chariots and horsemen, together with the
motor trucks and trench mortars and rock-hurl-
ing machines over closer to the enemy front so
as to break up more of the enemy’s artillery fire.
Pat knew that he had a long time to wait, so he
sat down on a broken chariot wheel, pulled out
the latest copy of the Ladies’ Home Journal, and
began to read by the light of the camp fire. In
fingering through the pages he noticed that the
ladies’ styles were changing somewhat, and that
dresses would be worn much shorter in Rome
that fall, and that bobbed hair would be in style
the next spring. In another section of the mag-
azine his eye caught the headlines of the men’s
style section, and there he read that hip boots
worn with swallow-tailed coats and straw hats
would be the rage during the summer months.
Unconsciously he was sitting with his right foot
under him when he woke up to the realization
that his foot under him was paining him terribly,
and it was not until then that he remembered
that he had forgotten to put a Blue-Jay corn-
plaster on it that morning.

Suddenly a drop of rain fell on his cheek, and
upon looking up he saw an enemy airplane above
him. As he loked he saw a bomb falf from the
plane, which at that time was directly over him.
Jumping up, he made a break for the tent of H.
Lucius Miconnis, his captain, but his efforts
were in vain, The bomb hit the earth, exploded,
killed him, and threw fragments of the fire and
the Ladies’ Home Journal for a distance of 20
stadians.

Moral: Never wear celluloid socks; the friction
is liable to be too great upon the feet, even if
the strain upon the nerves is insufficient to annoy
you.

A HOT TIME IN DON’S ROOM

Forty-five members of the student body rang-
ing in size from Shorty Love to Stoutboy Mont-
gomery were guests at a social entertainment
which whas held in Don Wharton’s suite
some time ago. Attendants in the froms of
Hebe McIlwaine and Tom Baker received the
hats, coats and all other articles of yalue which
they could get their hands upon and ushered the
visitors into the guest room. A very good time
was had by all. Games of jack straw and tid-
dledywinks were played until all members were
fatigued and had to call time out. Refreshments
were served by the Misses Sister Sloan and Mo-
bile Goat Lewis. They consisted of ZuZu snaps
and sassafras tea. The waitresses were beauti-
fully attired in yellow overalls trimmed with
barbed wire in order to keep all male cows from
launching forth in fury upon the innocent and
ungarded hash-slingers. After heaving Irish con-
fetti for several hours the party was dismissed
by Cop Johnston. The members were able to
leave the infirmary and resume their studies
this week. No visitors were allowed.

Prof.—Make use of the word “omen” in a sen-
tence.

Stewed—Andy Gump went to the door and
hollered “O, Min.”

frain from reading, or otherwise distasteful con-
duct during chapel.

Even though we may not believe in the Bible
which the professor reads or in the religious prin-
ciples on which this college is established; even
though we have no self-respect at all, it behooves
each of us, as good sports, to have respect for:
the prof who leads morning prayers and for the
students around us. A.C. R.
