be

THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 10, 1924

{| >

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson Colfege _

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7
p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be publish

ed.

7
LISTON D. ELKINS...---..--- Editor-in-Chief
REGINALD L, PRICE... usiness Manager

Editorial Staff
C. M. S. McILWAINE..-...-Managing Editor
---Assistant Managing Editor W. Z. BRADFORD-,
-Assistant Managing Editor A. C. WILDMAN
AY. Athletic Editor, W. M. C
eanut Parcher- Editor }~

.--Associate Editor

-Alumni Editor

Business Staff

P. J. STORY. _._-._...............-Subscription J. M. GARRISON......-..---.,-------Assistant
WATT McCAIN. -Circulation Manager K. S. McALPIN Service Manager
Fi A, THOMPSON Assistant Manager W. H. CROMWELL. ---Bookkeeper
V Serle YIN OM astectata gy aaebereurieraans Typist W, R, HOUGHi22.-.-. .-Advertising

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT

WATT McCAIN, Manager J. A. THOMPSON, Assistant Manager

REPORTERS’ CLUB

MARSHALL,
MILLHOUS, J

HURD, A. M., Pres.
WHARTON, my V.-Pres.

APPL7BY, J THOMPSON, B.
BOWIE, A. Y. M. SHAW, H. L.
GARRISON, J. M. N} jab DY STOREY, P. J.
GIBBS, L. B, f PATTON, J. H. WHITE, H. M.
GREEN, J. L. PITTS, B. Y. WILLIAMS, J. M.
HOLLINGSWORTH, A. I. RATCHFORD, B. U. SMITH, C. F.

EDITORIAL.

SERVICE

| lee DAVIDSONIAN enters into the Spring term with a resolve for
service. The Davidsonian is the official chronicle of the student body,
the official organ of the student government and every student organiza-
tion, and the medium through which the news of the campus is broadcasted. If

you can suggest a way for the betterment of the news columns, make your plan’

known; if you can contribute toward the success of the paper, either as a writer
or as a booster, step into the ring. The Davidsonian will be the “Livest Wire
on the Hill” if you help us generate the juice.

D. ;
The news of the death of Mr. M. C, McAlpin, father of K. S. McAlpin,
member of the Junior class, of Blackshear, Ga., will be received’ with sadness.

An expression of sympathy from the student hody has been extended to Ken-
neth and his family.

@

D

The antiouncement that Coach Monk Younger will return to Davidson to
direct the athletic policies and activities of the college next year has met with
popular approval and the enthusiasm of the entire Wildcat lair. No man who
ever wore the Wildcat insignia has gained the true friendship of the entire
student body with more haste than has Monk. “The most popular man on the

cere is a title he has acquired in the four months he has served as Wildcat
leader,

D:

A student organization worthy of the whole-hearted support of the entire
campus is the college Y. M. C. A. The “Y,” in addition to its work among the
men on the campus, is reaching out into the surrounding territory where the
influence of their Christian work is being keenly felt. :

Your first duty to the Y. M. C. A., and a duty which you owe yourself, is
attendance at the Sunday Vesper Services. Form a habit of regular attendance !

®t

D:
ACTS OF CARELESSNESS

An utter disregard of one section of the constitution of the student gov-
ernment has cast a reflection on the college as a whole and may be the means of
an inestimable loss to Davidson. This section is.fotind in Article Four, and
reads: “‘All students shall respect college property,
wilfully mutilating it or destroying it in any way.”

The damage deposit paid the treasurer of the college at the beginning of
the Fall term of each year covers the necessary loss from wear and tear o1
college property, with a surplus left-to be refunded at the end of the vear.
With a moderate exercise of care and prudence college property suffers little.
The authorities have placed custodians in charge of the dormitories and campus,
as much for the convenience and comfort of the students as for the protection
and upkeep of the college equipment. To “respect college property” is no task;
it is the thoughtful exercise of a sane mind, or, to put it harshly, but plainly,
the expression of a man’s own character. Destruction of college property be-
speaks a destructive character. What impressions are you leaving as to your
own character ? ;

With the exception of one action, men on the campus have observed the
constifutional clause mentioned above. The only score against the name of the
student body is that of building fires in the halls of the dormitories. This one
thing constitutes a serious menace to the college, so much so that the authorities

have been forced to appeal repeatedly to the student body for a cessation of
such actions,

Aside from the direct damage done, as in the case of the mutilation of the
new composition floors in Watts, there is a possibility that the insurance com-
panies will refuse to give insurance protection on Davidson equipment. Alréady
one company has declined to issue a policy to the college. Fire protection was
poor, and insurance rates were high. The situation was precarious enough,
under those conditions. Inability to secure insurance protection would be dis-
aster; and yet that disaster stares us in the face.

__ rhe loss of Chambers and Watts may have been beyond control, but the
building of fires in dormitory halls is not likely to impress this fact upon the
insurance inspectors. si
cy The. situation is serious enough to enlist the care and good judgment of
every man on the campus. The destruction of college property is a violation of
the student government constitution and is a menace to our college. *.

:00 |

and shall not be guilty of

| Open Forum

WHAT IS YOUR OPINION
ABOUT THE FOLLOWING?

The Question Box

|

| (This department is conducted by the edifor,
| for the benefit of those members of the stu-
|dent body, or faculty, who desire to express
their opinions on any matter which might arise
| durin the collegiate year. It is the hope of the
| Davidsonian staff that the column will be con-
| ducted for the betterment of compus life, and
| that the students will express themselves freely
}and enter into open-hearted discussions on
campus problems. The names of the writers
will be withheld from publication, if such is the
desire of the writer. Al! articles must be handed
in to the Editor of the Davidsonian by 7:00 p. m.
| Monday.)

| WE WANT WALKS

For many years the bad weather, the rain

and the mud have been a proverbial subject
of scathing satire at Davidson College. From
| September until June we have railed ¢gainst
|these three sources of discomfort. ‘To come
jtosthe point at once, why can’t we remedy
|the situation? Of course the rain and the
bad weather cannot be helped, and we ask
‘nothing of the kind. It is the mud and the
awful slop that we have to walk in from
week to week that we want to argue about.
There is no call for satire. We have a com-
plaint to make and a remedy in mind.

What we want to propose is that whoever

is in authority, help us out of the mud by
placing some kind of walks at our disposal.
Aside from the discomfort of wading
through slush ankle-deep and splashing it all
over our clothes, there is the prospect of
isitting around all day with damp shoes on,
catching cold, grippe, flu, ete. Our rooms
look like mud holes all the time and we
have no way of helping it. We can't walk
around the mud because’ it is everywhere.
Also, not only does the lack of sidewalks
impair our comfort and endanger our health,
but it produces an appearance of which we
are actually ashamed. It is no exaggeration
to say that there is not an entrance to our
campus which can be traversed on foot by a
person respectably shod, without ruining his
shoes. The main entrance has looked like a
pig sty for the past month, It is a shame
that persons visiting our college should be ,
greeted by such a loblolly. The situation is
well enough known. All we want to do is
to ask for a little improvement.

We realize that the college does not have
at its disposal the funds which it would like
|to have. Also we realize that the college is
;very badly in need of other equipment, but

what we want to suggest is that some of the

brick and {some of the concrete and some of
|the labor that has been expended in building
, terraces, ete., be expended a little more judi-
ciously, namely: in building walkways.

| We know practically nothing of the true
| financial situation: of Davidson College,
/neither do we know of the demands made
;upon her coffers, but we are conscious of
| the dire need of walkways. It has been
| Suggested that it is against the traditions of
| Davidson to mar her beautiful campus by
putting concrete walks upon it. The re-
|mains of hard-surface walks of various kinds
‘may be found on the very oldest and most
| traditional parts of our campus. After all,
| what does tradition amount to, when com-
| pared with the progressiveness of a modern
|institution, and the comfort and good health
|of her students?

We do not want to mar the appearance of
| our campus, we do not want to worry the

-|college with petty complaints, but we are

/tired wading in the mud.

Turp.

| THE COURT OF CONTROL

The Court of Control has been in effect
nearly four months of this school year, in
| which time it has tried fairly 51 cases. It
| is pronounced a success by important mem-
bers of the student body, and it has suc-'
ceeded admirably in handling the Freshman
class. Hazing is a thing of the past to Da- |
vidson; in its place, a saner, better,
plan.

wiser

There are some objections brought up to
the Court of Control—but no organization
is perfect, certainly not one with less than
a year’s existence. But the Court of Con-'
trol has been effective. The Freshman class
this year is certainly no worse, and perhaps
much better than those of the preceding |
years. When drastic measures are needed |
on a man, they are used. The penalties |
placed by the court range from severe ad- |
monitions to confining to the campus, and |
even suspension. This suspension can take |
place only through the action of the Stu-
dent Council acting on recommendation of.
the Court of Control. But the only time
such a measure was recommended, such an
action took place. ' |

Besides curbing the Freshmen, the Court
of Control has endeavored to and has really |
helped the Freshmen. This has largely been |
accomplished ‘by the series of talks given by
Prominent iitintiess of the Junior and Senior
classes to small groups of the Freshman
class, each group averaging 40 men. These

Why is there no “Youth Movement” in
the United States, such as we find in Eng-
land, France, Germany, Italy, Russia and
China?

Is the indictment justified that American
students are too absorbed with activities to
be interested in world and national prob-
lems ?

What are the causes of this demand by
the young men of Europe for radical
changes in church, society and government?

Are these demands justifiable?

How do they find expression?

Do we find in America the industrial au-
tocracy, the political graft, the concentra-
tion of wealth, woman and child labor, the
double standards of morality, the race
prejudice, the provincial egotism, and the
selfishness in business to which the youth of
Europe and Asia are today revolting.

What would be the effect of the united
sentiment of the young men of America in
answer to these conditions ?

In what concrete ways could this influence
make itself felt?

Foch: “We need minds today
muscles are hardened with thought.”

whose

MRS. BASKERVILLE
SUCCUMBS TO STROKE
OF PARALYSIS

Monday morning, at 3:40 Mrs. A. M.

Jaskerville, mother of Mrs. A. Bs Rob-
died the result of a stroke of
paralysis Thursday. For the last four
years Mrs. Baskerville had lived with
Mrs. Robson at the infirmary.

Miss Elizabeth Baskerville, of Orange-
burg, S. C.; Miss Gordon Baskerville, of
Charleston, S. C.; Mrs. I. G. Hartman,
of Washington, Ga.; Mrs. A. B. Robson;
Mr. Thornton Baskerville, of Worsham,
Va.; and a foster son, Mr. Sampson, of
Clifton Forge, Va., were present at their
mother’s death,

son, as

Mrs. Saunders, of Baltimore, Md., and

Mrs. Woods, a missionary to China are
the other surviving children of Mrs.
Baskerville.
Dr. Richards held a short service at
4 o'clock Monday afternoon after which
pall-bearers from the student body bore
the casket to the train,

Mrs. Baskerville was buried by her
husband in the old seminary grave-yard
at Hampden-Sidney, Va., her old home.

The sympathy of the student body
rests with Mrs. Robson, who has been a
mother to them all, in the loss of her
mother.

MOUNT MOURNE IS HAVEN OF |

REFUGE DURING CHRISTMAS

All who stayed at Davidson during the |

holidays found life to be interesting and
enjoyable, despite the fact that all were
away from home
had none too many activities. The peo-
ple of the town showed the students a
good time and kept them from having
a malady very common to persons when
they are away from home.

Trips were made to Charlotte at fre-
quent intervals and those who journey-
cd thereunto possessed themselves of a
most enjoyable opportunity. The towns-

people of Mount Mourn were exceeding- |
iy hospitable and many kind words were}
sent by the marshall of that town to the

chief-of-police of Davidson, N. C.

The most notable occasion was a
Christmas party given at the church on
the night of December 24th.
local “fire” had returned home and seem-
ed perfectly willing to entertain each
and all in whatever manner possible.
Parties were held in several homes, in
town in addition and everyone certain-
ly appreciated these.

The students that remained occupied
Watts dormitory and Mrs. Smith did
several things for the boys. Those men
wish to express their appreciation to

Mrs. Smith for aiding materially in
making their stay here much more
pleasant.

talks are on every phase of college life, and
are unusually helpful.
There has been unjust criticism of the

little of its working. Such criticism is
neither helpful nor just. With the backing
of the entire student body, the Court of
Control should make this year better
than the last, and should bring the dawn of

a stiff better Davidson.

“Three rousing cheers” for the Court cf
Control. '26.

and that this town!

All of the!

Uncle Bud, Editor

Dear Uncle Bud:

I have decided to start a dairy here in
Davidson to furnish milk to the boys at the
boarding houses. I have one cow at present,
but she is dry. How can I get more milk?

Allen M. Hurd.
Dear Mr. Hurd:

Remember that humidity offsets aridity,
lead your milk bucket up to the water bucket,
and calm down your conscience. Any sort
of parsimonious feeling will do the rest.

Uncle Bud.

Dear Question Box:

During the holidays I took a girl to a
dance and when the car in which we were
riding broke down on a dark and lonely road,
I put my arm around her to shelter her. Did
I do wrong? Flake Laird.
Dear Red:

Don’t you remember ? Uncle Bud.

Dear Uncle:

What is the ammunition for duck
hunting? I am going to “Groome” myself
for a duck hunt on some neighboring brook-
let, and I want to get the best results.

E. T. Buck.

best

Dear Ed*

I would suggest that you use salted pea-
nuts, No. 6 size. The ducks catch and eat
this on. the wing, develop a keen thirst and
come down to get a drink, Easy enough to
knock 'em over then. Another good method
is to scatter chunks of ice around upon
which they will alight and freeze to. All
you have to do is build a fire for them and
they will come right up to warm their toot-
sies. ‘ Uncle Bud, Ed.

Dear Uncle Buddy:
What is the eternal triangle that one hears
so much about these days?
Eugene Regen.
Dear Gene:
It used to be Wine, Women, and Song, but
now its Jazz, Flappers, and Buttermilk.
Uncle B.

Dear Uncle Bud:

How can I make my girl love me? All
my wooing seems to be in vain, and all my
caresses repulsed. I am a desperate man.

Nappy Davis.
Dear Mr. Davis:

Desperate situations require desperate
remedies. Try the cave-man stuff. They all
fall for that. If such rude tactics fail to
please, say it with flowers, music, or candy
‘until you dazzle her with your generosity.
If that fails, wrap up a kiss real carefully,
|send it to her, and tell her that you are go-
ing to commit suicide, and if that doesn’t
‘make her come running, she isn’t to be got-
ten. But ever keep in your mind the old
‘adage, “Get ’em young, treat ‘em rough, tell
‘em nothing.” Uncle Bud. _

| DELEGATES TO INDIANAPOLIS
| ea eg NIL CAN oe AT

The Volunteer Band, with E. D. With-
erspoon leading, held its first regular
| meeting since Christmas Sunday even-
ing, after the Y. M. C. A. service. The
| meeting was well attended, due to the
| widespread interest in the recentcon-
ference in Indianapolis.

The meeting was in the form of re-
|ports from three members of the band
'who attended the conference. Each
| speaker told of several things that he
| brought back from the conference. J.
| R. Gudger, the first speaker, said that
| the one things that impressed him most
| was the great need of foreign missions
|and the importance of missions in the
| life of every Christian. He also men-
{tioned the fact that a missionary must
| become a brother to the heathen of the
|land he visits before he can hope to do
| good.
| Angus McBryde, the second speaker
| stated that the conference had given him
|a clear vision of Christ and that men on
|the campus, as well as throughout the
| world, could only be won by a clearer
| knowledge of Christ.

Ted Jones, the third speaker, gave
| quotations from some of the outstanding

| Court of Control by men who really know} speeches. Among these were an indict-

ment of “Indigestion Christians;” the
fact that Christ alone could save the
world, and a challenge to the Volunteer
Band to become better known and to
have only four-square men as members.

This interesting and hefpful- meeting
was closed with a prayer by Professor
Porter.

