THEDAV

Vol. XI

=

‘FOR A BETTER DA

VIDSON

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 14, 1924

No. 18

NV orld’s Greatest. Eva
Billy Sunday Pays Visit|

to Students of Davidson

Speaks to College Men and Village
People in Presbyterian Church

EDUCATION IS HIS TOPIC
Advises That World Owes No Man

a Living

The noted evangelist, Billy Sunday, ad-
dressed an enthusiasic audience in the Da-
vidson Presbyterian Church, Friday morning,
February 8th. Students, school children,
townspeople and visitors crowded into the
building to hear a speech brief and pointed
and characteristic of Billy Sunday in its
every phase. It was shorter than his usual
sermons but lacking in quality, and
thoughts were hurled by the speaker with
his customary speed and directness.

Mr. Sunday gave the audience to under-
stand at the beginning that he had come to
speak to the students and that the old folks
might listen if they pleased. Education, its
true meaning and the warped ideas concern-
ing it, might be called the theme of his ad-
dress. It is not alone to put facts into our
minds that we come to college, he. said, but
to put in determination, “to take a nonentity
and to make a man of power.” The educa-
tion that fails to make a better man is a
failure. There are two kinds of educations:
“The one you give yourself, and the one
you learn from others. There is much in
books absolutely indispensible, and there is
much in books absolutely worthless.”

It is for us to do our best where we are,
not waiting for the great occasion to arise
before we bestir ourselves. Idleness is the
curse of the majority and from it men be-
come derelicts, with no aim in life and no
ability for life. “I am a part of all that I
have met. We are shown up by our acts, our
conversations, and by our company. We
find those men who ‘don’t know Thomas Jef-
ferson wrote the Declaration of Independ-
ence.’ He emphasized that “what  con-
tributes to our happiness and success is not
to be despised.” And it is that determination

not

(Continued on page 5)

Debate Preliminary Will
R-.» Varsity Material

Trinity and Emory Will Be Spring
Forensic Opponents

The preliminaries for the two debates this
spring, the first with Emory and the second
with Trinity, will be held on Friday, Feb-
ruary 29th. The query is the same for both
debates: “Resolved; That France is Justi-
fied in her occupation of the Ruhr?’ The
team to debate Trinity will be composed of
three men, while the one to meet Emory will
have only two. In the perliminaries the five
best men will be chosen, and the two teams
will be arranged from these men.

The debate with Trinity will be held at
that place on August 4th. The sides have
not been chosen, but it is hoped that David-
son will have the negative side.

The meet with Emory will be on the 11th
of April. The place has not been named,
but will probably be Agnes Scott College.
Davidson will uphold the affirmative side in
this debate.

The query for these debates is a live one,
and one that admits of plenty of rgument
on both sides. Emory and Trinity argue
the same question at about the same time,
so there will be a triangular. meet. The
Wildcat forerisic artists have twice defeated
Trinity on the home floor within the past
year, and it is hoped that they will repeat
in the enemy’s territory this spring. David-
son has not met Emory for several years.
Although neither of these debates witt be
staged here, there will be a freshman debate
on the hill some time during the spring .

Seated, from left to right: R.
‘29.

Standing: KE. 1. Houghton, '22;

M. Cochran, ex-'24, Kx.
Willis R, Booth, ex-'23; Rk.

ngelist Scorns Short

Davidson Club—Louisville Seminary

1.
J.

G. Tucker, ex23; J.

L.. Meleod, °23;

‘)).

A,
ee ANY |b;

Spragins, nee:

W. Groves,

Taylor,
>

Currie,

Red. and Blackers Drop One to Blue Devils in Queen City |

But Turn Over Sheet and Whip Guilford, Lenoir and State

New Audit Board
Reviews Books of
All Publications

The Student Council, at a recent mecting,
appointed an audit board to supervise the ac-
counts of all student organizations, and thus
brought back into use a previously neglected
statute of the Student Body Constitution.
Warren Cox was chosen to head the board
and already effects of the existence of such
a unit are being noticed. The board will
have control of all student organization
books, will prescribe the rules of accounting
and make regular audits of the separate
systems.

The Davidsonian, Quips and Cranks, The
Davidson College Magazine, and the Student
Store are the present organizations under
the supervision of the board, Already the
accounts of these organizations have been
gone over and changes in the methods of
accounting have been recommended in sev-
eral instances. The board's further duty is
to audit the books of these organizations at
regular intervals to see that they are kept up
to the mark and to keep either debits or |
credits from remaining on the books too |
long.

It is hoped that the audit board will have
a salutory effect on the various organizations

and that the efficiency of same will be
raised. The board will have the authority to |
recommend operating plans based on the
amount of business a correct audit of the
books show and in this manner the whole
working plan of the organization will be
benefited. The Student Council is to be com-
mended for its action in bringing this board
into being.

FRESH-SOPH DEBATE WILL BE
HELD EARLY IN MARCH

The subject for the Fresh-Soph debates
this spring is: Resolved, That the United
States should adopt the Bok Peace Plan.
The preliminaries for selecting the society
teams will be held during the first week of
March, and the inter-society preliminaries
will come off in the following week. The
date has not been fixed for the finals, but will
probably be before the last-of March. It is |
hoped that each society will select its team
ai get its preliminaries off in time so that |
the debate will not drag along until late in |
the spring as it did last year. \

Four Games in Six Days Spanish Athletes

is Menu for Younger Men

Tom Staley Leads Quint in Scoring |

and Shows Brilliant Floor Work

The scrapping Davidson Wildeats have a
record to be proud of as the result of their

three out of four games taken, during ‘the
Falling under the attack—of the |
Trinity Blue Devils by a score of 30-40, they |

last week.

came back strong and trounced all contend-
ers appearing on the home court.
the Florida and the Wolf
from State all succumbed to the withering
attack of the Coach Younger's basket toss-
High hopes are held for the rest of the
season with such a record behind.

Trinity Game

The Davidson Wildeats failed to get their
bearings on the Charlotte Auditorium floor
last Tuesday night and suffered defeat at the
hands of Trinity's Blue Devils, 40 to 30.
Campus tradition has it that Trinity is Da-
vidson’s Jonah, At any rate, the Red and
Black quint got started on the wrong foot,
and allowed Trinity in the first half of the
game to pile up a one-sided score of 22 to
11. Spikes and Crute, for the Blue Devils,
were in large measure responsible, for they
shot the sphere from every conceivable posi-
tion which brought rounds

Lene vir,
‘Gators,

crs,

for goals, of

japplause even from the Davidson supporters.

Team work was poor in this period on the

j part of the Wildcats, and bad passing let

slip many an opportunity to score.

In the second frame the fighting spirit
of the Wildcats was up, however. Trinity
could not protect her goal from the offensive
drive of Coach Younger’s proteges, and the
scoring for Davidson in this period was one
point more than Trinity’s mark-up. Staley
led the scoring, playing a beautiful game at
forward, and four snarling Wildcats work-
ed with him in excellent co-operation to feed
the basket. It was impossible to overcome
the lead gained by Trinity in the first half,
and the Blue Devils nosed out 110 points
ahead.

The work of Sapp at running guard and |

Boggs at the stationary defensive position
featured for Davidson, with Staley perform-
ing in stellar manner at forward.

The line-up:
Davidson (30)
Staley (12)

Position Trinity (40)

ae ee Simpson (2)

Right forward
(Continued on page 8)

Pack |

_ Defend Catalonia

| An item of interest to the entire student
hody, and of special interest to the students
of Spanish is the Spanish debate to be waged
{between | Davidson and the University of
North Carolina, in Shearer Hall. The date
for the debate had not been definitely de-
cided when the Davidsonian went to press,
(but it will be held near April 15th, the date
to be decided within a few days.

Preliminaries for the debate will be held |

during the latter part of Mareh. A number
of Spanish students will enter the prelimi-
naries.

| This debate, the plans
| formulated by

for which

Fleagle,

were

Professor is

as is known. » The entire exercises of the

evening, according to a prominent member

of EL Club Espanol, will be conducted in
Spanish.

The query, which has been selected by
the contestants, is, Resolved, That Catanolia
Should Be Given Home Rule. Catalonia, it
will be interesting to note, is the mining dis-

trict of Spain, similar to the Ruhr district |

of Germany. Barcelona, the principal city .of
Catalonia, the breeding place of Bol-
shevism in Spain. The district is in revolu-
tion at present and is proving to be the
source of no little trouble to Spain. Cata-
Jonia is at present under the military dicta-
torship of Primo de Rivera, which office he
has held for the past several months. The
question is a live one, and heated arguments
will doubtless be produced by both sides.
The debate is being fostered at Davidson by
El Club Espanol, which has for its officers
‘J. A. Thompson, president; A. T. Rowe,
vice-president, and Al Simpson, secretary.

Davidson will uphold the affirmative of
the question.

1s

Davidson has been assisting several
near-by towns in launching their mis-
sion study classes. Dr. and Mrs. Lingle,
Mrs. A. Currie, and Dr. Arbuckle have
spoken in Statesville, Mooresville, Con-
cord, and Barium Springs.

| The Book_Joyers’ Club will meet with
| Miss Cornelia Shaw. Friday afternoon.
|Mrs,. Withers will have charge of the
' program.

in Stump Combat

the |
|first of its kind in the United States as far

Success

| Carolina Grapplers Scrap
| Hard for Two-Point Win

New Rules Account for Lowest
Score in Davidson Mat History

CROMARTIE WINS ON TIME

Captain Lindamood Enters Heavy-
weight Class

Five hundred students along with many of
the townspeople and girls who were spend-
ing the week-end Davidson,
Davidson's
meet the
Saturday night.

in Witnessed

intercollegiate wrestling
against Carolina, last
The teams well
matched and the mateh went fast, Carolina
Winning over Davidson by the margin of a
The

first
of seitson

were

‘fall: over atime decision, score Was
five to three,

Iex-Captain Cromartie won his mate on
time over Tagan, of Carolina, for David-
In the next

secured

son's only score of the meet.
match “Matheson, of
fall over PLN. Patterson, whieh gave Caro-
lina a lead of two points. They maintained
this lead throughout the meet.

Cromartie, representing Davidson for his
third year, was the hero of the night. Wrest-
ling under the of wrenched
shoulder that had kept him off the mat for
11
Wildcat never-quit spirit and held his man
on the mat for the three minutes required to
win the mateh,

The under the new
jcollegiate wrestling rules, allowing 10) min-
utes to the match with no extra periods.
A three-minute consecutive time advantage
was required for a win with a one-minute
excess over the opponent.

The meet opened with a mateh in the 115-
|pound class between Schwartz, of Carolina,
lane! Selser, of Davidson, Neither man was
fable to get his man to the mat within the
[first seven minutes and the mateh was called
a draw.

In the 125-pound class, Cromartie, of Da-
vidson, foreed Hagan, Carolina star, to the
mat in the first few minutes of the match

rc (Continued on page 8)

y

Carolina, a

handicap a

days, he nevertheless showed) the true

meet was conducted

European Traveler Speaks
of Personal Experiences

| James Somerville Pictures Chaos
Existing in European States

Mr. James Somerville, representing the
World's Student Federation, spoke at the
vesper service of the “Y,"” Sunday, February
10th. Lee McLean, vice-president of the
“Y,"" introduced the speaker, stating that
from experience of several years in Eu-
ropean relief work Mr. Somerville was well
acquainted with in European
countries. His message concerned the pres-
ent educational conditions in| Europe, espe-
cially, Russia.

“The fight is on,” said Mr. Somerville in
opening his address, referring to the song
which had been sung, “but the fight isn't
always on with Christian soldiers in Europe.
The colors are not always streaming. It is
a hard fight.” He continued by giving a
vivid picture of the living conditions among
the people of Europe, stating that there is
not much j for them and that life

conditions

joy is
mostly a struggle to make ends meet. He
said that the present condition in Europe is
one of extreme poverty, and gave some strik-
ing illustrations bearing out his statements.
There were two fundamental reason point-
ed out as responsible for the present condi-
tion, the first being the depreciation of cur-
rency, and the second the chaos existing in
industry resulting in unemployment. In
Russia particularly there is-all the chaos of-
revolution in addition to these other things.
He pictured the Russian famine of 1921,
(Continued on page 5)

