THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 23, 1924

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:

10 Cents per Copy; $2.50° the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.
CHALMERS M., S, McII.WAINE__.-

KENNETH S. McALPIN..-.---.--Busine

.-.-Editor
ss Manager

Editorial Staff

Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
.-.Alumni Editor
-Athletic Editor

Managing
Assistant Managing
Assistant Managing
-Peanut. Parcher

------Circulation Manager

r. C. McSWAIN Subscription Manager
GyoRPeHiUINIDD eeras est Sea seec ees Bookkeeper |
X M. GARRI Service Manager |
V. H. LY? Typist |
REPORTERS’ CLUB
1. B. GIBBS, Pres. R. H. McILWAINE
D. G. WILSON, V.-Pres. i N

G. MeMILI
FE, MOOR

A. Y. BOWIE. Sec.-Treas. J 0
. M. APPLEBY E. P. O'CONNOR
1. M. AUSTIN R. B. PARKER
W. H. BRANCH RB. Y. PITTS
W._T. COVINGTON BR. U. RATCH FORD
J. M. GARRISON FE. K. REGEN
Ay Li JON. TINGSWORTH Ut Mk SONS N
heals NE i, 30). RTON
W. H. LYNCH W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

OLLEGE students are known the

the world over as being “irresponsible,

irresistible, joyous,” nevertheless the
old maxim that being seen is better than he-
ing heard, could well be applied to the stu-
dent body of Davidson, at certain times, at
least. There are times when it is best that
a discreet silence be kept, and the mouth
closed, One of these times is when some-
thing else is going on that would be de-
tracted from by unseemly noise.

It is annoying to some visitors to come to
a performance of the Dramatic Club or sim-
ilar organization of the college, and be con-
stantly assailed by violent expletives and
sundry vocal emations, even if they are of
the harmless variety. Some of the afore-
said visitors attend a concert or performance
and instead of receiving a maximum amount
of benefit, are frequently the losers by go-
ing. Almost everyone likes noise in its
place, but it doesn’t belong in a hall where
there is a play going on.

At the stunt night performance Friday
night, a lot of the visitors were excessively
annoyed by the many cat-calls, whistles,
knocks and other means of noise-making,
Frequently during the most important part
some whoap like that of a Commanche In-
dian would assail'the rafters of old Shearer
and the visitor could not get the drift of the
performance. Of course this was done
through carelessness on the parts of the
students who evidently did not think as
much of the others’ comfort as their own.
_ The shows and such here at Davidson are
for the most part for the direct benefit of
the students. However, at most of them
there are others who perhaps do not ap-
preciate such wild extremes of showing
ones delight at the play. It would be well
to remember that as we attend these per-
formances and keep the others in mind at
all times.

DEATH OF MR. A. L. SAPPENFIELD

The heart-felt sympathy of the entire
student body, and members of the faculty
is extended to N. E. Sappenfield, more pop-
ularly known to his large circle of friends
on, the campus as “Nick,” in this hour of his
bereavement. “Nick’s” father, Mr. A. L.

Sappenfield, died on last Sunday morning, |

when he suffered the second stroke of
apoplexy within two weeks. Mr. Sappen-
field, over sixty years of age, had been ill
for two weeks, but on Saturday afternoon
seemed to be responding to treatment as
nicely as was to be expected. His death
came as a surprise to the members of his
family, and his passing has been widely
mourned throughout the state. Mr. Sapnen-
field was a prominent worker in the Luth-
eran Church at Concord, and included among

his friends many of North Carolina’s leading |

citizens,

To Nick, who had just arrived home from
Davidson where he had played in the game
with Lenoir College on Saturday afternoon,
his father’s death was a hard-dealt blow.

Expressions of sympathy were wired to him.

by-individuals and members of various or-
ganizations on the campus, and the David-
sonian uses this means of making know the
sorrow that the death of Mr. Sappenfield
has caused the student body, as a whole.

| contends,

Open Forum

Chaff

(This department is conducted by the editor, for the
benefit of those members of the student body, or faculty,
who desire to express their opinions on any matter which
might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of
the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted
for the betterment of campus life, and that the students
will express th mselves freely and enter into open-hearted
discussion on campus problems. The names of the writers
will be withheld from publication, if such is the desire of
the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor
of The Davidsonian by 7:00 p. m. Monday.)

LET’S GO, WILDCATS!

There is. something in the air, fellows, that
makes this year seem like it is going to be a
record-breaker! Ain’t it a grand and glorious
feeling to see those fighting Wildcats in action?
When has Davidson put a team like it in the
past few years? A harder fighting, steadier driv-
ing collection of football players has never been
put on a gridiron. We may be outweighed but
we are never outplayed! Is there not something
in that to make you feel prouder when we win?
Don’t it make you want to yell louder when they
make a gain? Five wins in a row may not se@¢m
like much to be proud of but to the older follow-
ers of the Red and Black it is something to fecl
extremely hopeful over, to say the least.

But that isn’t all. In nearly every branch of
College activity there is evidence of a banner
year, Stunt night Friday night proved to all
present that material is in abundance for both
Glee Club and Dramatic Club. Our basketball
team should be better than it ever was, and as
for baseball—well, that is a little too far ahead

yet. Needless to say however, we expect to make |

a better show for ourselves than we did last year,
although our team will suffer some loss of men.

Then, too, conditions on the campus have been
bettered. Some steps are being taken to contend
with the mud. Grass is growing in spots this year
that were barren and ugly last year. Our new
athletic field is complete in every way for tlre
year's sports.

Well, by now you will have concluded that we
have covered the ground pretty well, in sum-
ming up the things that tend to make this year
appear to start off better than others. But the
ground has not been covered. Not by any means!
It is true that the above are valuab'e assets to a
successful year, but the most important has not
yet been mentioned, namely—our spirit. Our
team has the spirit—have we? When they are
there charging, tackling, bruised and battered,
are we doing our part on the sidelines? It is
true we yell when our team makes a gain but
are our yells this year up to the standard? Are
we giving our cheer leader all we've got? As

— bit of higher education,

AN OCCASION

Once or twice in the course of a college
year the routine of usual activities gives
place to an event which is not a mere hap-
pening—it can best be described as an oc-
casion. The Oxford-Columbia debate of
last Wednesday evening was one of such
rare climaxes in undergraduate life. In the
commodious and artistic background of
The Town Hall, representatives of an an-
cient English university met three students
from a great American university and to-
gether contrived to offer, for the benefit of
New York, a view of the college man at
his best.

As an exhibition of forensic skill, the con-
test was superlative. To begin with, there
was present that creature of wit and finish-
ed eloquence, the English university debater.
IIe was there with his ever charming ac-
cent, his utter lack of solemnity, and his
brilliant case. But more, there was on hand
a Columbia team which, it is no secret to
state, has, as yet, never been equalled in
platform: success by other excellent groups
which have recently competed international-
ly. For the Americans also had suavity and
hrmor; they too had originality and beauty
of speech, And—we hope we will not be
dismissed as being biased in saying this !—
it would seem that a crowded audience felt
the local men had an added command of the
frndamental facts composing the body of
their contention,

As always the Average College Man miss-
ed this opportunity to interest himself in
what must have certainly been a genuine
The Average Col-
lege Man—still thinking, no doubt, that col-
lege debating is the stilted, boring affair of
his prep school days and, in addition, fearing
that it might prove “intellectual”’—staved

|
| With the College Editors
|

| pleasantly in the more congenial and less

long as we do those, W Ideats are going to con- |
g

tinue to drive and fight, but when we stop we
are lost. The Student Body showed a wonderful
spirit Friday night at the pep meeting. Even then
with the number of students present at the game
We
fighting team.

our yells could have been more concerted.

have good cheer-leaders—and a

provocative atmosphere of fraternity and
dormitory conversational inanities—Colum-
hia Spectator.

Many say that they have observed and discovered
no unfavorable reaction towards such things—
they do not notice the suggestive effect to any
undue extent. Granted that all this may be true
of many, many individuals, does it give them the
logical right to keep their walls to ornamented in

| the same way that the opposite truth denies this

What more do we need to arouse our spirit of |

elova'ty to them?

We have a better chance of defeating Carolina
this vear than we have had in years. What vic-
tory would make you feel better? Our team is
determined to do it. Whether we are or not will
be evidenced by the spirit we exhibit from now
until then. To it got to put our
shoulder to the wheel and show them that we
are rieht in behind them and expecting a win.
Let's make onr spirit from now on be “Down
with Carolina” and continue that Ariving spirit
that is making itself manifest this year.

W. S. G.

do we have

“TEST YOURSF! ©. WHAT DO YOU
LIKE?”

“Have you noticed the custom of pasting pic-
tures of of bathing beauties on automobi'e wind-
shields? The State Commissioner of New York
has taken the matter in hand and has ruted that
the prevailing practice is bad.
‘prevent 100 .per cent vision of the
and he contends that ‘too per cent
vision’ is absolute'y necessary in driving a car.
Perhaps the Commissioner might have gone a
little further with the contention that the pic-
ture not only obstructs the view. but
the mind, and we believe that would prove the

’

The posters, he

operator’

better reason in supposition of the nuisance.’
The above was clipped from a recent editorial

in the Charlotte Observer. Probably it might

' apply to the discussion on the campus with regard

to wa'l decorations in the wavy of choice pic-
tures of various types of feminine beauty. It is
such an old custom here that it is hard'y to be

| expected that anyone will read this article once

he finds out what the subject is. Yet someone
may tire gazing at his art gallery and turn his

thouchts to a bit of an attempt at philosophizing |

on this prevalent custom.

There is no need to make out a moral case
avainst the custom, and it will not be done.
What pictures are good, mora'ly speaking, are de-
termined solelv by the individual’s reaction. Thus
it is up to each one to introspect a little to see
just what may be his attitude towards those nic-
tures, an if. be finds .a2 wholly vulgar reaction,
then common self-respect demands that he do
awav with his gallery. ‘

But right here is where the rub comes; many
say they only keep pictures for their color and
for that something of life they add to the room.

|
|

right to men for whom such pictures mean a vul-
frar reaction?

That is the question. For very few will admit
any demoralizing effect, and probably a great
number of them do not experience any such.
However, this is not far endugh to carry the dis-

| cussion. The big problem is whether men of col-

distracts ,

rove age are going to be content to leave things

of such a low basis as approving of a thing and
practising it with no more adequate reason than
that it has no evil effect upon them. (And for
some this idea cannot even be assumed.)

The custom of hanging up these pictures should
rightly be put for many on the same basis as
betting at football games. To some a bet means
confidence in your team; to others the higher way
of showing your confidence is to refrain from bet-
ting. You make the higher choice. If vaudeville
is preferred to draina or the opera, then for the
same men it would appear reasonable that they
should choose such pictures as adorn the pages
of some favorite weeklies. If getting by on class
gives a bigger thrill than really learning some-

| thing about what you are studying, then these
pictures with their ultra-suggestive nature large-
ly obscuring what little artistic qualities they
may by chance possess—these pictures would
logically be the ones to choose rather than the
works of art. One may choose the characteristic
front page of Judge in preference to a work of
a famous master—it is really no one else’s bus-
iness. The point is that each fellow often does
not realize it is his own business.

As Frank Crane says: “You can be tested by
this one question: “What do you like? Test

| yourself, then. What do you like best Beer
and beef and sleep, and slippered ease and danc-
ing and the chase Does it most irritate you to
be deprived of these things? Do you get pettlant
|. when you cannot have luxury, fine clothes, prom-
inence, and all such? Well, all the world is like
that. Not necessarily wicked—but just -Common.
The hope is that you are dissatisfied with your-
| self.
“But do you like—like, mark you, not say you
like—do you like Mona Lisa or Chopin’s Ballade

idea or a beautiful woodland, so much that you
| would miss a meal or forego being introduced to
an ambassador for the sake of enjoying them?
Then rejoice! For you trea da narrow way, and
few there be that find it. You may be many
things reprehensible, but you are’ not Common.”

And so it would seem in the case of the pic-
| tutes. ; D. B. W.

or Walter Pater’s writing or prayer or a new.

B. SCHNIGGLEFRITZ & CO., INC.

The more that come, the worse they get. Of
course we mean the clothes and not the fellows
that try to sell them. Every day three or four
Ikes and Izzies are seen around the vestibule of
the different dorms with a vast display of suits,
It is
rumored that the next bird showing up here with
a load of garters will be run off on the next
freight train that passes.

overcoats, neckties, and hose supporters.

The styles have changed very little during the
The ground-draging,
shoe-covering,dust-eating, bell-bottomed
breeches are still the rage, and with these on,
a pair of John Ward's sod-busters, a Hart, Shaff-
ner and Marx cut-away coat, one pair of Pres-

summer, skirt-bottomed,

ident suspenders, a near-Stetson bull-dog, and
one of the airplane propeller bow-ties, together
with an Arrow collar an American made English
broadcloth, the tail of which is tucked beneath
a four-inch bellyband, the young shiek is ready
to venture forth in search of game, wild or other-
wise.

Ike, Abe, John, Bill, and the others claim that
they can dress you up so that the Prince of
When said
clothier mentions this he forgets to tell you that,

Whales will look like a coal-heaver.

when you get dressed up, your pocketbook will
also make a two-months old baby’s toy bank look
like a gold mine.

In shooting the above to you we hope we
haven’t hurt any man’s trade, but our theory is
that most of the girls we know would rather
have their honeybunches come to see them in a
pair of overalls with a five-pound box of Skit’s
special chocolate-covered than having them ring
the bell dressed up like a men’s outfitter’s store
window, but carrying only a walking cane in their

hand,

“WHAT'S IN A NAME?”

That is something we will not attempt to dis-
cuss. However, when asked, “What's in the stu-
dent body,” we glibly answer, “Names,” and avid-
ly rise to the opportunity of telling in detail what
they are.

That is
startling discovery, but when it is found that they

Those named Smith come first. no

hold the lead over the Browns by the margin of
only one, their totals in the four classes being
eleven and ten respectively, the rule of the Smith
dynasty would seem to be tottering, Next come
those bearing the name Currie, eight of them,
and then the Millers, with seven, and the Thomp-
sons, With six,

Five Greys, five Whites, and five Thompsons
are names owned by three other groups. Of

‘Pattersons, of Davis, of G'enns, of Halls. of Me-

Mil'an’s, of, Jones, of Andersons, of Johnsons,
and of Wilsons to each there are four.

It has been stated that ten of the student body
are Brown and that five are White, and five are
Grey. Now we find that there is but one Green
and but Black. Notably there is not one
member of the student body who is Blue, how-
ever the Longs number three, and the Short one.
However, do not think that this covers the com-
plete field of names, for there are two Moore,
not forgetting the mention of a little Love.

When an effort made to list the sets of
brothers on the Hill difficulty is encountered for
certain men of the samgesiame jump quickly at
an opportunity of disclaaing kinship with one
another, notably the Faucette cousins, Robert E.
and Robert G., and the Jennings cousins, J. Hamp-
ton and J. Hansel. The most notable of the
brothers who do not try to hide the fact of their
closeness of kin include: the Bakers, the Kisers,
the Laws, the Mathews, the McConnells, the Mc-
Tlwaines, the Milners, the Andersons, the Pat-
tersons,. the, Wells, the Wharton trio, the Sulli-
vans, the O’Neals, the Alfords, the Glenns, the
Smiths, the Bowers. the Rowes, the Earnests,
the Gwinns, the Davis’, the Garrisons, the Mc-
Aulavs, the Robinsons, the Adams, the Friersons,
and the Malloys.

one

1S

Another interesting bit of information concerns
the second generation who append Junior to a
name borne by their fathers. Of these there are
no less than one hundred and ten of the six
hundred members of the student body.

The numbers of the noble prefix “Mac” is not
as largecas would-be expends iv xbis “stronyhold
of Scotch-Irish -Presbyterianism..” Thus the
popular expedient of calling a man “Mac” if one
does not happen to remember his real name
stands less than a ten to one chance of being
correct.
