THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 13, 3924

SNOWED
, OUT
THIS WEEK

BUT
STILL
GOING
STRONG

Belmont Legion Meets De-
feat to Phi Gam Quint

After leading their opponents by five or
six points until the last five minutes of play,
the Phi Gam basketball team was defeated
by the Belmont Legion last Thursday night
by the score of 33 to 26. The passing of
both teams was excellent and although the
Davidson team had the better team work and
were better marksmen, the Legion men were
on the job when it came to guarding and in-
dividual work. The half: ended with the
score standing 16 to 12 in favor of the Da-|
vidson team.

Leeper, who had been closely guarded and
was able to get only one goal, broke loose
and proved to be the downfall of the Phi
Gam team. To all thespectators it appeared
that the Davidson team had the game sewed
up. Then things began to hum, Mallery
was put out of the game on.personal fouls,
and the passing fell to pieces. Leeper, with
his cohorts, were quick to seize the oppor-
tunity, and with his teammates feeding him,
he made enough points to leave his opponents
hopelessly behind; and when the smoke
cleared away, the Belmont team had the
game tucked away with the score standing
33 to 26.

TAR HEEL ALL-STATE
WRESTLING TEAM

First Team

Hardaway, Trinity—119 pound class.
Cromartie, Davidson—129 pound class.
Mathewson, Carolina—139 pound class.
Waters, Z., Carolina—149 pound class.
Midgette, Trinity-—162 pound class.
Poindexter, Carolina—175 pound class.
Lindamood, Davidson—Unlimited class.

Second Team
Selser, Davidson—r1g pound class.
Hagan, Carolina—129 pound class.
Daniels, Trinity—139 pound class.
Mays, Trinity—1r49 pound class.
Waters, Carolina—162 pound class.
Mathewson, Trinity—175 pound class.
Umberger, Trinity—Unlimited class.
Mrs. J. W. MacConnell gave a dinner
in honor of Misses Richards and Black,
recently returned from a winter abroad.

SPORTING
GOODS

Wildcats Meet Colgate
Team On Home Courts

Manager Staley Arranges Matches
With Teams of State Colleges

Since the forces of winter are beginning
to wane, much interest is being taken in the
spring tennis tournament which will be held
as soon as the courts can be put in condition
for play. The aspiring racqueteers of the
college have already been out limbering up
and swinging the old racquet in preparation
for putting up a game fight for winner in
the finals and the chance to challenge the
low ranking member of the present team for
his position. The fourth man of the present
team will be decided by the climination
process. A large number of tennis players
are expected to enter the tournament.

Dope points to a good team this year, al-
though the work of Bradley, last year’s cap-
tain and state champion, will be greatly miss-
ed, The personnel of the team that defeated
Wake Forest in a clear-cut victory last fall,
is the same as that of last spring, with the
exception of Trotter, who stepped into the
vacancy caused by the graduation of Brad-
ley. Captain Price, Manager Staley, Beall,
and Trotter, can be counted on to deliver the
goods on any fair day. Should any one of
these men be ousted from his position, it is
clear that the strength of the team would be
increased and that Davidson would have an
exceeding bright outlook on the courts.

With Bradley, the team last year lost only
one match out of five entries before the State
tournament. The match was won by Caro-
lina at Davidson. At the tournament, Brad-
ley won the singles championship, and the
doubles team from Davidson reached the
finals, where they were defeated by Carolina
in three fast sets. The team this year has
already shown strength in its victory over
Wake Forest, in which only one set out of
nine sets of singles and two of doubles, was
lost.

Manager Staley is offering Davidson stu-
dents a treat in the match that has been
scheduled with the strong tennis aggregation
from Colgate University. They will be met
on the Davidson courts on April 14th, in
their annual tour of the South.

Plans are trying to be arranged for a North
Carolina trip for the team in which games
will be played with Wake Forest, Trinity,
State and Carolina, on their home courts.
Manager Staley is also trying to arrange a
return match with State on the Davidson

jcourts about the last of April. These plans,

however, are merely tentative and have not
been definitely arranged yet.

After this schedule, the team will enter
the State tournament which will be held at
Raleigh during the first week in May.
Though a Davidson man has emerged victor

Our Representative
on the Campus

The Commissary

Myers Hardware &
Sporting Goods Co.

18 E. Trade St. Charlotte, N. C.

in the singles for the past two years, it re-
mains to be seen just how the Presbyterians
will show up in this meet. With the four
entries she has to offer, though, it will ‘take
an exceptionally good tennis player to wrest
the laurels of victory from the Wildcat lair
and send the Davidson net sharks home with-
out at least a taste of victory.

MONK YOUNGER’S TOSSERS

(Continued from page 1)

fast-going inner gardner ; Frank Alford,
outfielder of a year’s experience and a deadly
man with the big stick; Tom Marrow, fleet-
footed outfielder; Red McPherson, Varsity

Central Cafeteria

“On the Square”’

Best Place to Eat

Corner Trade and Tryon
Central Hotel Building

twirler from the 1922 season.

There is a quantity of material from which
Coach Monk will fill the vacant places on the
nine. From the Scrub team of last year
there is a wealth of promising players, , and
the competition for the unclaimed positions
will be spirited. -The flaw in the fabric, ac-
cording to present indications, is the position
behind the bat. Jim Hendrix, star of the
gridiron and the cinder track, is a possible
candidate for this position. Hendrix was
selected on the mythical all-state nine when
he wore the uniform of Greensboro High
School. Sam Summers, Hovis and Ed Mor-
rison will also bid for the job. These men
were prominently identified in class baseball
circles last year.

Practice is too much in its infahcy and
the situation is so little developed that it is
impractical to make any. predictions :fer tke
success of the team. - The Wildcat mentor
will spend a great deal of time in the de-
velopment of the sending and receiving sta-

Height

5’ 10”

Weight
148

T. F. (TOM) STALEY
Bristol, Va.-Tenn.

Who Led the Wildcats in Scoring
With 176 Points

The Dope Fiend

By W. F.. Galloway

Congratulations, Captain Boggs.

At a big banquet at the New Charlotte
Hotel, Tuesday night, the 1924 quint closed
another season.

Too bad we won't be back next year to see
Coach Monk and Captain Sook round out
the ’25 squad.

If we don't get a grandstand before 1972,
at least they are hauling in the. bleachers.

Norman Shepard, former Wildcat star and
Carolina coach, is going into business in
China,

Coach Rawson took a jaunt down to the
city of Atlanta to see the C. I. G. tourna-
ment. Unfortunately he saw Alabama lick
Georgia.

The ‘sporting editor of the Durham Sun
must have had ma-jong or Greek on his
brain when he said that ‘Referee Bangle
made a Bungle about the Davidson-Trinity
Bingle.”

Maybe tho, it was limericks or Mother
Goose.

Bangle never reversed a decision; he only
made one: Davidson 8, Trinity 5.

Congratulations, Trinity, on that Southern
championship. We do wonder tho what the
V. M. I. wrestling team thinks.

There’s a chance of Carolina taking a shot
at the National Basketball meet this year.
It would be a big think for the State if the
Tarheels could win.

Carolina claims that Cobb has a national
record on points scored in a season. Some-
thing like 290, we hear.

And then a Wake Forest alumnus up and
sez, sez he that he scored well over 300 when
he was a kid.

Of course it is only a question of time be-
fore the first story will grow. We ought to
be ‘hearing from Trinity soon.

If the Freshmen do as well in baseball as
in basketball, things ought to be humming in
a year or two. ' :

Why not Intra-murah athletics?
class, Inter-dormitory and the like.

Inter-

Class basketball goes off O. K. Why not
something else? Anybody needs exercise.

It’s a lull between the storms. Nothing
much going on except the most important
thing of all—training. Things will open up
in a week or two.

tions, the two most strategic points of at-
tack on the diamond. I{ these two positions
are well filled the Wildcats have every reason
to expect a winning outfit. The infield and
outfield will be well covered.

CAPTAIN ELLIS ISSUES CALL
(Continued from page 1)

Besides the letter men, Smith and Mat-
thews are showing up well on the dashes,
Smith and Mallery on the low hurdles, and
Parker on the 880. Williford, Selser and
Gudger, of last season’s squad, are promising
material for the mile and two-miles.

Due to the fact that every meet is with a
Conference team, no Freshmen will be al-
lowed to run in the meets. This excludes a
great deal of splendid material which has
just arrived at Davidson. A glance at the
following schedule will convince one that a
hatd program is facing Captain Streibich
and his team, but under the efficient coach-
ing of Captain Ellis a winning season is
expected.

April 3—V. P. I., at home.

April 12—N. C. State, at home.

April 18—Clemson, at Clemson, S.C.

April 26—Washingon & Lee, at Lexing-
ton Va.

April 28—V. M. I., at Lexington, Va.

CONVENTION OF NORTH CARO-
LINA VOLUNTEERS

(Continued from page 1)

in New York last month, gave their reports,
telling of the inspirational meetings which
they attended there, where there were out-
lined some ofthe problems of the Volunteers
and some of the criticisms which have been
brought against the Volunteer movement.
Sunday morning the delegates attended the
various churches of the city, where speakers
of the convention addressed the congrega-
tions. Two of the delegates at each of the
churches also gave three-minute talks on
Why I Am a Volunteer. The subject of the
Sunday afternoon address was Pressing
Toward a Mark.

Miss Webb led the open discussion which
followed, the sense of which was, Should
our mission study stop with mere study of
the fact that other countries are heathen
and need Christianity, or should it embrace
political, industrial and racial problems
which arise.

Sunday night Mr. Wilder spoke on Giving
Yourself Completely to Christ. He told of
one man in a theological seminary who, after
he decided to be a Volunteer, was asked to
speak to some of his fellow students. Being
something of an artist, he drew a picture of
a strong man in a boat, rowing but making
no headway. The reason was shown to be a
rope by which the boat was securely fasten-
ed. Then the rope was cut andthe speaker
said, “Fellows, I’ve cut the rope and now
I’m ready to go.”

The new pregigent, Miss Alice Gibbon, was
installed, after which the meeting was thrown
open. This proved to be the most inspira-
tional part of the whole convention, as dele-
gate after delegate told what the convention
had meant to him.

The Davidson delegates to the convention
were: Tom Barr, Mac Beall, Wiggs Brad-
ford, Jimmy Carr, J. M. Dew, E. C. Doug-
las, P. M. Dulin, Glenn Eddington, W. M.
Gracey, J. Leighton Green, Tag Guiton,
Thomas Hamilton, George Hodgin, Fred
Hopkins, Perrin Hudgins, Floyd Jones, Tom
Jones, Herbert Love, J. D. McCluer, W. A.
McDonald, J. C. McJtnkin, Malcolm Mc-
Queen, Dope Matheson, W. E. Milton, Guy
Morrow, Angus McBryde, Charles Nor-
wood, Bub Oeland, Warren Ogden, Norman
Patterson, Paul Patterson, J. R. Phipps,
Harry Price, Campbell Ramsey, J. H. Reg-
istér, R. D. Robertson, Paul Story, Ben
Sloan, Hugh Wells, Barclay Walthall,
Henry White, Joe Walker, Ronald Wilson,
M. C. Yeargan, Willard Keerans, Lawrence
Beall, and Lee McLean.

SIX NATIONAL FRATERNITIES

(Continued from page 1)

A house party of this nature is not a new
thing at Davidson, and, while members of
the present student body may not have par-
ticipated in one, in former years some very
successful, parties have been held. The suc-
cess depends, of course, on the girls being
present. Every courtesy within the power
of the fraternities is at the disposal of their
guests. The chapters are looking forward to
entertaining that particular member of the
fair sex that is attached to every non-fra-
ternity member of the three upper classes.
Sit down tonight and write her if you haven’t
already done so. °

There is no need here to speak of the good
feeling: that exists here between the non-
fraternity and fraternity men. Yet, perhaps
a word should be said, too, because so little

mention has been made of the situation in
print. An accurate estimate of the existing
conditions can be had from the statement of
a member of the Pan Hellenic Council to
the Davidsonian representative.

“The reason for the many strong friend-
ships between the fraternity and non-fra-
ternity men that one finds here,” he states,
“can be summed up in a few words. Every
man on the campus who is a member of any
chapter realizes that there are just about as
many strong men in fraternities here as
there are out of them. Unfortunately the
small number of chapters on the hill and
their necessarily limited personnel keep a
man out of a fraternity who, on any other
campus, would be a fraternity man. Every
year we see this when men, failing to return
to Davidson, enter other schools and are im-
mediately initiated into some fraternity. The
Pan Hellenic feels that every Davidson man
realizes this and that, with the program
which will be worked out, the week-end can
be made a big success.”

Get your girl and be at home over at the
halls on April 5th. Low lights and soft
music will be in order; also more substan-
tial food. Don’t waste the setting.

For High Class

PRINTING

of every description

+

“‘Jam-Up’ ’

SERVICE

see

ELKINS & PRICE

Davidsonian Office

Agents for
Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.

Quality Printers

THE CAMBRIDGE
For the young man who follows the
style trend rather closely. This coat
might be termed the happy medium
of the loose cut clothes of today.
It is made in two and three button.

A SOCIETY BRAND SUIT
WORN WITH THE NEW
C & K COLLEGE HAT

Tate-Brown Co.
CHARLOTTE

BROWN & McCLAIN
Local Agents

