THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 18, 1924

OH

YOU
MONK

=)
4}

EAT
UP
ELON

Promising Material Out
for Rat Football Team

Many Former Prep and High School
Stars Answer a Rawson’s

In response to Coach Rawson's call some
75 candidates have come out for Davidson's
Freshman eleven. Regular practice opened
Thursday, the 11th, and for the remainder
of the week consisted of the usual funda-
mental ground work. The Fresh are being |
put through the mill, and a well-toughened
squad will be the result.

Dope on a group of new men is hard to
dish out.
the opening of practice looks a good deal
brighter than it did last year. More men
are out, these men are heavier than the
usual run, and withal seem a bit more ex-
perienced. When the squad is cut to 30 or
40 men Coach Rawson will have in these
the best of material from which to select his
Wild Kitten eleven.

The ends and the backfield have the great-
est amount of material. Twenty-five men
are out for wing positions. As many more
are out for the backfield. This does not
leave many for the line, and it is there that
a shortage of material may occur.

As yet not much can be said as to the in-
dividual players. Several all-state prep and
high school men have reported for practice.
These and others have come up to Davidson
with a big reputation. What they are really
- worth will be left for time to tell.

The Fréshman schedule has not been com-
pleted: Games with the best first year teams
in the Carolinas are being contracted for by
the. Athletic Association. Possibly one or
two high a elevens will also get Bums
with the D, C, Fresh,

FOOTBALL MANAGER OUT ON
ACCOUNT SICKNESS

So far this year the Wildcat cleven has
been without a manager, owing to the sick-
» ness of Manager A. W. McAlister, Jr.
Manager McAlister was down with the
team for early practice. Most of his time
then was spent in making out a schedule for
the Freshman team. While home for the
last week-end before the opening of college,
an abscess developed in a tooth. During the
manager’s absence C. M. S. McIlwaine has
been carrying on the publicity work in con-
nection with the coming games.

Henderson’s Auto
Electric Company

“U-DRIVE’MS”

The Old Stand

CIGARS
SANDWICHES

CIGARETTES
CANDIES

Appreciative Service

W. G. SHIELDS

However, the outlook right at |

The Kick-Off

By W. E. Milton

Since September 2 the Wildcats have bee:
going hard, eating dust (more truth than
poetry), until the first of this week, when
mud seems to be their main diet.

And there hasn't been any let-up since the
first day.. They are working strenuously,
j and we are wondering if the student body
lis working up that great spirit, as they ought

to, while the boys are hardening their muscles |

Too bad Jim Potts cannot be with the
squad, Two hundred pounds in the
would have been a great help.

It is hoped that Sam Summers will be
ready for the Elon game, and if not for
that one, to be in shape for the P. C. fracas
in Asheville. Sam has hard luck. Last
year he suffered a sprainked ankle and this
year a ligament in his side has pulled loose.

No, Coach Monk isn’t having secret
practice, but he says the presence of stu-
dents near the boys practising will detract
their attention. Then, again, if all the boys
went across the field every afternoon, it
would soon get in bad condition, So “Coach”
has instructed the assistant managers to keep
the students on the west side of the track.

It looks mighty good to see the boys out
there in their football togs, and it’s going
to be a great deal better Saturday when
“O, Davidson’ ’is struck up and the Wildeats
trot out to meet Elon.

Are you going to be there? Davidson has
618 students, and outside of. those, jin unifi
that afternoon every one ought to be out.
Do your part; the football team will do
theirs.

Harry Vance trained this summer by do-
ing some wrestling at Camp McClellan, Ala.
It was “some” wrestling, too, for he came
away with the heavyweight wrestling cham-
pionship of the camp.

At the same time S. W. Moore showed a
little prowess by being runner-up in the
welterweight boxing contest. A boxer of
Clemson defeated him in the finals.

Eleven tennis courts this year! It won't
be hard to have them all used either, for in
a student body of over 600 there are many
lovers of the net art. Last year there were
five courts, and now there will be a little
more assurance of a chance to play when
you want to try your hand.

We have last year’s tennis team back this
year, but they will all graduate. Somebody
will have to take their place, so frequent
and hard practice will not be amiss for
those who are interested in tennis.

Members of the two upper classes have
been particularly interested in Pat Crawford
this summer, in his tryout with Charlotte in
the South Atlantic League. Pat went good
from his first trial and has been cavorting
around the hot corner and slamming out
hits in great style. In the entire league he
stands among the first 15 best hitters, hit-

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks

Eversharp Pencils Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens

Poy and Pillows

; v. s. HENDERSON, Jeweler
; DAVIDSON, N. C.

ting around .320. He has proven a valuable
player for Charlotte.

Wonder if you've been down on Sprunt
Field to take a look at the Freshman candi-
dates for the Wildkitten varsity. Saturday
afternoon 63 were counted: Some of: them
look real hefty; others show speed and good
training, and altogether Coach Rawson has
a mass of material from which to select his
first string men. The Freshmen made a
great record last year, and naturally jt is
hoped they will do the same this year.

One chap out there stands in the way and
easily blocks two men. If you get a mere
glance at him you readily know that he’s
John Laws’ brother.

How does this look:

1921, Davidson 47, Elon 0.
1922, Davidson 24, Elon 0.
1923, Davidson 19, Elon 0.

and getting in shape for their first opponent. ,

line |

THE COMPLETE
SCHEDULE

The completed schedule for the Da-
vidson football team, with the excep-
tion of the place of the Clemson con-
test, follows:

September 20—Elon at Davidson,
September 27—Presbyterian
of South C
October 4—University
at Winston-Salem.
October 11—Wofford at Davidson.
October 18-—Lenoir at Davidson.
October 22-—Furman at Columbia,
South Carolina.
October 31—North
Pinchurst.
November 8—Clemson (undecided).
November 15—University of North
Carolina at Davidson.
November 27—Trinity at Durham.

College
Carolina at Asheville.

of Richmond

Carolina State at

Davidson Wildcats Lose
Feline Mascot by Death

There is Mourning in the Camp of
the Cats and Little Kittens Over
the Passing

Dr. C. R. Harding
DAVIDSON, July 4.—There is mourning
in the camp—at least by that small fraction
of Davidson warriors that are still bivouaced
on the old tent ground, while their fellows
have scattered to their homes on a furlough,
and this mourning will spread and take pos-
session of the hearts of ‘hundreds when the
news is broadcast—the ‘Red and Black”
mascot, the Davidson fighting wildcat, passed
away last night and joined that great com-
pany of his forbears that. moulder on moun-
tain side or in swamp-and forest throughout
America’s wide domains.

This fine specimen of the untamed feline,
which was sent last fall to the Red and
Black tribe as their eponymous progenitor,
had shown for several days that he was be-
low par and that he should be transferred
from his imprisoning wire cage into an in-
firmary for medical treatment, but there was
no veterinary at hand to feel the patient's
pulse, take his temperature or gauge his
blood pressure. The animal, though mark-
edly less ferocious in these recent weeks
than when first imprisoned, did not invite
his keeper, Charlie Wilson, negro, either to
fondle or caress, and no sympathizing by-
stander felt called upon to administer pill or
purge.

The crowning evidence that Mr. Wildcat
was losing ground and that his “pep” had
left him, came when, refusing to eat butcher's
meat, a well-wisher—one wishing the cat
well and not the rooster—suggested that
chicken might whet the failing appetite of
the caged fighter and help him back to vig-
orous strength and his old-time fire. So a
rooster was purchased and thrust within the
cage Where the “lame lion”. of the “David-
son Wildcats” was domiciled. Onlookers
thought that it would be another case of
Daniel thrown to the lions with the issu:
reversed from that of the Biblical story, but,
wonderful to relate, and for a very different
reason, the issue was practically the same.
What was a “cat” to a rooster, who was
perfectly familiar with the domestic type?
Had not he and the other chickens in the
back yard time and again fed with the cat
fra mthe same bucket of scraps, drunk from
the same milk pail and watered at the same
trough in perfect peace and harmony? Had
they not even picked fleas from the cat's
fleecy hide? Why fear a cat, and fear he
did not.

Fate justified his confidence. Not even
“chicken meat” could tempt the feline, who
was now sick and that unto approaching
death. Why sick—no one can say. Possibly
mourning over the dull listless days that
were his since the shouting and the tumult of
battle had ceased with the closing of the
college year; possibly mourning over the de-
feats of which during the past year the
Wildcats had suffered, and which even a
fine Wildcat mascot could not prevent; pos-
sibly mourning over his enforced idleness
and inactivity in contrast with the race for
life and struggle for the survival of the fit-
test that had characterized his youthful days
in the wild.

Be all this as it may, wildcat and rooster

Niches in the Wildcat
Hall of Fame

(Cay RANKIN CAWFORD
“Pat”

D*** Baseball D***Basketball

| A niche in the Wildcat Hall of Fame that

| shows and will continue to be outstanding is

ithe one under which is written the name,

Pat Crawford.

In her time Davidson has had many out-
standing athletes, but she has had few sons

‘to graduate here after having held an All-

State berth in two different sports, president
of the Y. M. C. A. and captain of two of
her major teams.

In his Freshman year Pat went out for
football and basketball, being chosen a sub-
stitute in each. The same year he made his
letter in baseball, handling the right fielder’s
territory like a veteran, and finishing the
year with a batting average of .282.

At the beginning of his Soph year Craw-
ford gave more than one man a shaky feel-
ing regarding his chances to make the foot-
ball team. Although he did not get the cov-
eted “D” in football, Pat made many another
fellow give all he had to beat him to a posi-
tion on the team.

When the basketball season opened Pat
made the team, playing stellar ball at the
guard’s position, and quickly won a name
for himself because of -his uncanny ability
to shoot a goal from the middle of the floor.

When baseball season was over, anyone
looking over the Davidson score-book saw
Crawford’s name in every box. He ended
the season with a good batting average-and.
a fielding average of .985, having made ‘only
two errors in 22 games played.

Although he did not make the track team,
Crawford, in his Junior year ran the 100-
yard dash inthe time trials, being. beaten by
his opponent by one-fifth of a second. Pat’s

time was 10 2-5 seconds.

In his Junior year Pat was chosen captain

of the basketball team and was selected. as
an All-State guard. The same year when
the diamond battles were over he had a bat-
ting average of .432, and a fielder’s average
of .987.
His Senior year found Pat still at  foot-
ball, captain ofthe baseball team, All-State
first baseman, and president of the Y. M.
C. A. Before his baseball career here was
over he had an offer to sign up with Char-
lotte’s baseball team.

*Surely here was a true son of Davidson
who gave all that he had to each branch of
sport, as well as to the religious activities.
This is an example that was set that every
Davidson man may strive to attain, and he
may be justly proud if he even comes near
matching the record of Pat Crawford.

dwelt together in unity and peace. The
wildcat attempted neither to hurt nor to
destroy, and the rooster made himself as
companionable as possible, standing close be-
side his sick fellow prisoner and from time
to time marking the flight of time and the
tolling of the bells by lusty crowing to his
feathered mates in the enjoyment of liberty,
to come and rescue their imprisoned kins-
man.

These did not hearken to the call. But
meantime the mascot was giving ear to an-
other summons, and answering faintly to
another call. Quietly he drew about him
the draperies of his couch and lay down to
pleasant dreams as the cock’s crowing an-
nounced the dawn of a new day.

(Editor’s Note—The preceding article ap-

It came from the pen of Dr. C. R. Harding,
professor of Greek literature, who is a fre-
quent contributor to the sporting and news
pages of the North Carolina dailies.

peared in the Charlotte Observer of July 5th»

Six New Tennis Courts
Are Under Construction

Will Bring Total to. Ten—Old
Courts Reconditioned

Owing to the erection of the new Cham-
bers building many of the tennis courts used
last season are now covered with building
material.

Only four courts were available for use
last week, but this number is now being in-
creased to ten. The new courts will be
below the present courts on the plot of
ground which is next to Concord street and
the one on which the Freshmen of last year
practiced football.

The courts now in use have been dragged
and the posts have been dug up. New posts
with a crank to tighten up the nets will re-
place the old. This improvement will lessen
the trouble previously experienced by those
wishing to keep the nets at a proper height.

The new courts have also been dragged
and will be covered with a layer of sand and
put in tip-top condition. This will in some
measure alleviate the present congestion on
the tennis courts.

The tennis team of last season is back in
full force and ready to start to work. With
Harry Price, champion of North Carolina
during the previous season; T. F. Staley,
Jim Trotter and Mac Beall to play for Da-
vidson this year, the prospects for an ex-
cellent team are good.

A small number of matches between the
Freshman teams of Davidson and_ other
colleges will probably take place. It is
hoped that some of the members of the

'Yearlings who have been reported as good

players will turn out to be such.

Keep Your Feet

DRY!

E. A. FRY

The Mender of Shoes

For High Class

PRINTING

of every description

+

“Jam-Up’ ,

SERVICE

C. M. S. McIlwaine

Davidsonian Office

Agent for

Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co:

Wholesale

Whe: You Need Candy
See Us

26 28 S. College St
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

