THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 4, 1924

Feeling of Davidson Students Grows
Rampant as News of Victory Received

Telegrams have a way of throwing gloom | sometimes, Thanksgiving day was one time.
all about. At least, a large per cent of the| Relief came to the boys on the hill.
human race never get quite used to tele-|to burn the town jail were discussed openly,

grams. But it was not exactly gloom, or
fear either, that hit the campus last Thursday
afternoon when the message from Durham
said, “Trinity 10, Davidson 0,” and a few
comments.

A low, Wildcat yow! began to be heard as
the tense moments of waiting ran into min-
utes. The corrected message read 10-7; the
growl grew louder, the wildcat rose to a

Plots

dozens of plans were considered and thrown
| aside, there just was not anything big enough
to fit the occasion; exhausted minds just
stood and gaped at one another and said,
|Ain’t it a grand and glorious feelin,’ at last,
Trinity met her Wildcat, and the Wildcat
lwent wild!”

STUDENTS CHEER HEARTS AT

PHI BETA KAPPA

(Continued from page 1)
is often a lecturer on English at Chautauqua |
assemblies. |

1
|
|

The subject of the address to be given by |
Dr. Currell is 4 Plea for Humanities. |

Invitations have been sent out to all mem- |
bers of the Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta
Kappa, to both resident and non-resident
members. It is hoped that a large number |
of those invited will be able to be present at !
the celebration.

The private initiation will be held before |
the public ceremony at 7:00 o'clock. After
the public celebration at 8:00 o'clock there |

——

The SHOPS for MEN

A Special Display of

Smart Furnishings and
Gifts for College Men

Room 103, Watts
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 9th

half-crouching position, and every man on
the hill yowled, “Fight ’em, gang! Fight
’em!” And the Wildcat growled a little
louder, and moved around a little, the teeth
began to show, the eyes to spit fire.

CONVICT CAMPS

Thanksgiving Day, with nothing to do ex-
cept to eat, sleep and be thankful was well
|observed at the convict camp. Through the

Tick-tock went the clock. “Fight ’em,| thoughtfulness and work of a few of the
gang!” roared the boys on the hill. Click; | students, it was possible to add a little to the
click, said the telegraph, and then the fire- | Thanksgiving repast at the camp. Fruit of
works started. Slowly, too slow, came the jall kinds, candy and sweets were carried out

will be a banquet which will be attended by
all members of the chapter.

The following is the list of the new mem-
bers to be received Friday night: Rev. W.
B. Jennings, ‘80, Germantown, Pa.; Dr. |
James D. Nesbit, ‘81, New York City; Dr.)
J. P. Mathewson, ‘94, Charlotte, N. C.; Dr.
W. T. Thompson, ‘05, Richmond, Va.; Rev.
Robert King, '06, Decatur, Ga.; Dr. B. R.

words, “Game over—Hendrix plays superb|to the men Thursday afternoon. When a
game—” Would it never come! “Score? |man’s hunger is satisfied, he usually wants to
Score?” roared the waiting crowd. Tap by |smoke and something to read. These were |
tap Mr. Abernethy spelled out the message—|not lacking, their wants being well supplied
D—a—v—i—d—s—o—n Why don’t that | with cigars and magazines. The -latter are |
‘man hurry ?—21—a blood-curdling yell rent }always acceptable in any shape or form. |
the air, a silence of death followed—T—r— “Boss, please bring me something to read,” |
i—n—i—t—y—oh, what could it be!?!?!—13. is the constant request, so please save up your

Then it was that things blew up. A foot- | magazines.
race to the bell tower was made in nothing} On Sunday the regular meeting was held,
flat, yelling voices accented every jump, arms |at which five students were present. R. S,
flew in every direction, but what mattered a] Wilson, A. Y. Bowie, A. D. Viernes, Tag
few arms! Ears were cut off by the smiles|Guiton, and Joe Garrison were those who
that threatened to sever the head from the|went. Bowie spoke for a few-moments on|
neck, joy ran superbly wild! The ‘boys who|the Call of Matthew.
stayed at Davidson placed their all on “ole
gang,” gang won! For hours the bell tolled
and told the story.

But enough! Telegrams do bring joy

“That is what I call being two-timed,”
said the four as he doubled himself and
totalled eight.

Lacy, 06, Atlanta, Ga.; Rev. J. J. Murray, |
‘09, Lexington, Va.; Dr. J. M. Douglas, '93, |
Davidson, N. C.; M. W. Trawick, W. W.
Purdy, and A. T. Rowe, Jr.,
of '25, Davidson College.

all of the class

On the first day of the Red Cross drive
recently held at Auburn, 175 students were |
signed up for membership. This was very
encouraging to the leaders to have such an
active interest taken—‘The  Plainsman,”
Auburn,

Carolinians from theOld North State have
organized a “Tar-Heel Club” at Citadel and |
have elected as president “Cle” Green, of

Follow the leaders who set
the pace of smart college
fashions.
low class mates as you meet
them on the campus, and
you're sure to be most im-
pressed by their excellent
taste and appearance.
at once define him as ‘‘well
groomed.’’ Visit our display
rooms and find an answer to
all your.needs in clothes that
ARE the vogue.

Notice your fel-

You

Charlotte. At present there are eight mem-
bers in this club.—"The Bull-Dog,” Citadel.

Artificial lightning was first publicly demonstrated

on June 5, 1923,in
Electric Company at

million-volt spark crashed into this miniature village

What’s the use of

She Greater BonNMarhé

Junior-Senior Forensic
Team Selected by Pans

| Garrison, Milton and Shaw Chosen
| in Contest of Six Last Monday

Night

The Pandeinie Literary Society chose its
team for the coming Junior-Senior debate on
| Monday night, December Ist. Six men of
|the society tried for places
to represent the Pans in the semi-finals were
lJ. M. Garrison, W. FE. Milton and H. 1.
Shaw.

The ones chosen

The speakers were chosen in the order
igiven, Garrison, Milton and Shaw. G. M.
Eddington and C. M. S. Mellwaine tied for
the place of alternate. The judges for the
evening were Mr, R. H.-Henderson, Rey. A.
| I, Laird, and Dr. C. R. Harding.

the laboratory of the General
Pittsfield, Mass., when a two-

The subject to be debated in the inter-
society contest this year is, “Resolved, That
the proposed Twentieth Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States, as passed
|by Congress in June, 1924, should be ratified.”
The proposed articles are as follows:

“Section 1, The Congress shall have power
to limit, regulate, and prohibit the labor of
persons under 18 years of age.

“Sec. 2. The power of the several States

operation of State laws shall be suspended

artificial lightning? hk unimpaired by this article except that the

It is mainly experimental, aiding
General Electric scientists to solve
high power transmission problems.
Many such experiments yield no

immediate return.

| to the extent necessary to give effect to legis-
|ation enacted by the Congress.”

In the Pandeinic eliminations Monday night
|three men had elected the affirmative side of
| the question, and three the negative; because
jof this, the interest and enthusiasm was un-
j usually keen.

On December 10th the Metros and Pans
| will meet for the semi-finals, and the win-

DAVIDSON
FIVE YEARS AGO

Davidson College Day was observed on
December 3rd.

livered by alumni, faculty members and stu-

Several addresses were de-
dents. The main theme of the occasion was
The Million Dollar Campaign then being put
on for education in North Carolina,

Hive men were sent to the Student Volun-
teer Convention in Des Moines, Lowa.

A cut three columns wide of the football
team was run in The Davidsonian, This
team had’ just beaten Furman 41 to 14 in the
Thanksgiving game. Black and Johnson,
playing the whole game together for the first
time, ran wild and were the stars in the back-
ficld. Hammett and Romefelt were the stars
in the line.

Pat Crawford was chosen for a substitute
on the all-class basketball team.

An editorial appeared in The Davidsonian
about Senior Speaking which had just been
held. The editor was strongly opposed to the
continuation of the old method of speaking.
He stated that, cither the speeches would
have to be more interesting, the students
more interested or the whole thing abol-
ished.

Exams started on the 8th of December.

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR AND
SUNDAY SCHOOL COMPARED

A. Y. Bowie led the C. FE. Training Class
in a discussion on “The relative importance

!ner will meet the winner from the Phi-Eu
| semi-finals for the final contest, which comes
| December 17th.

of Christian ‘Endeavor to the Sunday
| School.” The discussion consisted of the
lasking and answering of questions by differ-

The Pandeinic Society has the distinction jent members of the class regarding the work
|of never having lost a Junior-Senior debate. 9 Christian Endeavor in relation to. the
| Members of the other socicties are -out to Sunday School. The point was brought out
| beat the Pans. This will make for a lively

| that the Christian Endeavor is a basis of
| contest when the semi-final champions clash | support for the Sunday School and the Sun-
|:98 December 17th.
|
|

Experiments like these are
particularly thrilling and
important to young men and
women, who will live in an age
when electricity will perform
most of life’s hardest tasks.
Know what the research lab-
oratories of the General Elec-
tric Company are doing; they
are a telescope through which
you can see the future!

But in the long run this work is
practical and important. It is part
of the study which must go on

day School for the church. The benefits of
the training in a Christian Endeavor Society
were also discussed.

unceasingly if this powerful force,
Electricity, is to be fully tamed
and enlisted in your service.

If you are interested to learn
more about what electricity is
doing, write for Reprint No.
AR391 containing a complete
set of these advertisements.

Clemson College has almost returned to Ree é
normalcy following the recent strike oft! _ The training class sent a sate Ga
jhalf the student body, numbering five | Sisting of two men to Cornelius Sunday
‘hundred. The senior and junior classes night.
are somewhat smaller. Twenty-three | >
members of the senior class were dis-| The student body of Hampden-Sidney
missed, while four seniors and one hun-/| College in response to an appeal of Rev.
dred and eight juniors fa¥é been sus-; Robest Mi Bettinger, inissionary to Af-
pended for the school year. The cause! rica who. was recently on the hill obli-
of the strike was dissatisfaction with the | gated themselves to support a missionary
food and the suspension of the senior|to the dark continent. Nearly all of the
class president for a year. needed $2,700 dollars has now been raised.

95-941DH

GENERAL

ELECTRIC COMPANY. YORK
