THE

DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 3, 1924

The Reel Stuff

The screen attraction at the Gym Satur-
day night will be Marion Davies in “Little
Old New York.”

Marion Davis will have a role entirely
different from anything in which she has
heretofore appeared and one exactly suited
to her appealing personality when she ap-
pears at Patricia O'Day in “Little Old New
York.” The roguish, mischievous traits of
Princess Mary Tudor, played by Miss Davies

in “When Knighthood Was In Flower,”
are found in little Patricia, but there is also
a quality of wistful pathos which shows a
new side of Miss Davies’ dramatic ability.
The role of Patricia has something of the
character of Maude Adams’ “Peter Pan” or
of “Little Lord Fauntleroy” about it. Miss
Davies appears most of the time as a young
boy, having donned this disguise in order to
inherit a fortune. ;

One of the most dramatic scenes in the
picture and one which gives Miss Davies a
wonderful opportunity for expressing emo-
tion is on shipboard when Patricia’s brother
is buried at sea. The star spent several days
and nights on the ocean in an of@-fashioned
schooner while these scenes were being made.
Those who saw her as Princess Mary Tudor
will recall the poignant appeal made by her
helpless grief when she thought Charles
Brandon was to be executed. The ship scene
in “Little Old New York,” where _ little
Patricia sees the body ofcher beloved brother
lowered over the side of the ship into the
heaving ocean rivals it in emotional depths.

Coles Phillips says that Marion Davies is
one of the twelve most beautiful women in
America.

Chipman Elected Alumni
Secretary of Seniors
Popular Members of ’24 Selected to

Hold Class Together After Grad-

uation

D. J. Chipman has been elected alumni sec-
retary of the class of '24, according to an
announcement made by R. R. Jones, president
of the class. The election was held at a
meeting of the class last week.

A plan is being worked out whereby the
members of the class will keep in touch with
each other after they leave Davidson. <A
thorough organization is being perfected
with Chipman as grand chief.

DeArmon and Milhous

Finalists 3 In Golf Match

Winners in Second and Third Flights
Undecided

The spring golf tournament is now in full
swing. Thirty-four followers of the links

turned in their scores to Captain “Doc” De- |
Armon, of the golf team. These candidates |
were divided into three flights according to |

their scores. There were eight men in the
first fiight and 13 in each of the other two.
By this division each golfer was given a
better chance as he only>played men whose
game was about equal to his own. The
champion of each flight wins four golf balls.

In the first flight Milhous defeated Mc-
Alister, Zeke Johnson defaulted to Archie
Reeves, Joe Walker defeated Brenner, and
“Doc” DeArmon beat Earnhardt. In the
second round Milhous beat Joe Walker, and
“Doc” DeArmon, defeated Archie Reeves
one up at the twenty-first hole. These two
stars of the Davidson golf team fought out
a brilliant match. By winning the last two

holes of the eighteen hole match Archie |

Reeves managed to tie the score. The nine-
teenth and twentieth holes were halved, but
“Doc” won the twenty-first and the match.
The finals have not yet been played between
DeArmon and Milhous.

In the second and third flights few of the
scores are in, so the results are uncertain:

“Mike” Patrick, in the second flight, how- |
ever, is setting a fine pace, having defeated |

Charlie McCrary and “Spec” McConnell.
The players in the second flight are:’ Paul
Story, Shaddock, T. S. Lawson, Trotter,
Peter Blue, Steele, J. D. Malloy, Hugh Cur-
rie; Sid Jones, Bob Mitchell, McCrary, Pat-
rick, and “Spec” McConnell.

The third flight is composed of Single-
tary, Bob McConnell, W. A. Patterson, K.
L. Menzies, Sears, John Baker, Watt Mc-
Cain, George Dupuy, Perry Priest, Love-
lace, Faison, and “Nappy” Davis.

Polity Club Outlines

New Membership Plan

Juniors and Sophs to be Selected for
Membership by Trials

The Davidson International Relations
Club, known on the campus as the Polity
Club, has just completed and inaugurated a
new plan for qualification and admission into
the membership of this club. At a regular
meeting of the club last Friday night the
president explained to 64 invited members of
the Junior and Sophomore classes the new
plan which is to be followed. Briefly, any
member of the above classes who is inter-
ested in international affairs may compete
for membership in the club by presenting to
the secretary of the club, H. M. White, be-
fore April 11th, a paper on some assigned
topic of world interest. From these men 10
or more will be chosen for membership.

This is a plan adopted by the club at a
recent meeting to make the membership of
the future more open and yet selective only
to men. who are interested ‘enough in the
purposes of the club to avail thmselves of
the opportunity to better acquaint them-
selves with international affairs. Many men
have shown interest in the new plan and the
new membership of the club promises to in-
clude many of the leaders of the campus.

The club wishes it to be understood that
any member of the Junior and Sophomore
classes may submit a paper. This paper must
he approved by the membership committee
and from this number the men will
chosen.

The local club has just become one of the
23 similar Southern clubs which are organ-
|ized into the Southern Students’ Association
on International Relations. This Southern

be

| Association promises to develop and stimu-

late much interest on the part of students of
Southern colleges and universities in world
problems, The club at Davidson is one of
the oldest in the South and this new plan for
membership promises fair to make it one of
ithe strongest.

REPORTERS’ CLUB ELECTS
NINE MEN TO MEMBERSHIP

| At a called meeting of the Reporters’ Club

last Friday night nine Freshmen were elected

{to memberhip. They are: W. H. Branch,
W. S. Woods, R. H. McIlwaine, W. T. Cov-
ington, P. F, Jones, H. M. Austin, W. H.
! Lynch, G. McMillan, L. D. Wharton. They
will be initiated into the club next Friday
| night.

The officers of the club for next year were
‘also elected at that time. They are: D, B.
| Wharton, president ; D. G. Wilson, vice-pres-
lident; and A. Y. Bowie, secretary and
| treasurer.
| Through an error the name of D. B.
Wharton was omitted from the list in last
| week’s Davidsonian of those members of the
| Reporters’ Club to whom Golden Quills were
| awarded.

DR. VANDER MEULEN

(Continued from page 1)
decision, especially if that decision has for
|its aim success, because success is measured
not in terms of this world, but from the
\standpoint of God.”

When a man is trying to learn himself,
and to give an account of himself, he must
determine two things. The first is his re-
|lation to men; thesecond his relation to
|God. And then to determine his life, it must
be contained in three factors. The three are
|a ruling symbol, Christ; a ruling influence,
the Bible; a ruling passion, to serve God.
Men often complain that God does not mani-
fest Himself more clearly to them. How-
‘ever, God does not manifest Himself more
openly to man, because he wants man not to
imitate His personality, but to develop one
of his own.

An interesting mention in Dr. Vander
Meulen’s talk was that of a questionnaire
sent out by his college to its alumni. An-
swers to it showed that the men who most
influenced their lives was their father, and
the book most influencing it was the Bible.
This was because the Bible not only needs
| brains to understand it, but because it makes
brain for those who read it.

He closed with the conclusion that “The
only fit passion for any man is that to
| ‘Make straight the way of the Lord’ in any
| vocation. A doctor, whose primary duty it
is to heal the body, can save the soul as well.
| And in any other profession the same pos-
| sibilities are open, that of making straight

| “the way.”

Miss Sarah Lingle entertained at a

Mr. Pendleton Tompkins, of: Raaucke,; Mah.Jong party Jast Friday evening in

Va., is spending part of his spring holi-| honor of her guest, Miss Baker.

The

days at the home of Dr. and Mrs. T. W.| Smith College colors were used both for

Lingle.

decorations and with the refreshments.

erary Society with great success. The uues-
tion under discussion was, Resolved, That
the three-term system is preferable at Da-
vidson College. There were about 10 men on
each side; the affirmative, under the leader-

The aittnwatte ere tien Kaine jship of J. E. Singletary, E. T. Pullen, and
paren’ “| ALC, Ray, and the negative, under the P. C.

That a three term system is suitable for use | Henderson, Ro Lo Pree and Glaude Metis
at Davidson, won at the regular meeting of | %

F | tosh.

‘the Eumenean Society last Thursday night. | i

Sloan and Brenner spoke on the affirmative |. The president appointed two men to lead

and Wildman and Rogers upheld the nega-| i" the discussion of the question at each
J. E. Singletary was made the

tive. J. D. Laws presided and N. G. Patter- | meeting. A
an ok dean Mba Gree HenCocinee bahnihe | head of the Radicals, and W. M. Gracey head

president and vice-president were absent. | Of the Conservatives. The organization into
Neldean ne thencritieareconimendedathenrour | parties will tend to centralize the discussions
speakers for credits, and the mecting ad- | and make the meetings more interesting, as
journed after Barr and Moffett had been | Well as teach the men more about parlia-
appointed to lead the affirmative and the | mentary law and the conducting of meetings.
negative, respectively, at the next meeting. |
Pandeinic
Practically the whole of last week's meet-
ing of the Pandeinic Society was taken up|
with the election of officers. The nominees Ly
for president were Oeland, Price, and Gibbs. |
Price was elected. For vice-president, Buck
Shaw was elected over his opponents. C. M.
S. McIlwaine was chosen as first critic; A. |
H. Hollingsworth, second critic; L. M. Mc-
Cutchen, secretary; L. B. Gibbs, treasurer.

Literary Societies

PIGGY MARTIN ARRANGES

(Continued from page 1)
Zach of these plays is to be given by one of
the three other classes in honor of the Ju-
niors. The assistance of some Charlotte
High School girls has been procured. These
girls will be a welcome addition. The plays
are to be The Ghost Story, given by the Se-
niors of the Club; The Real Mr. “7,” given

; Philanthropic : iby the Sophomores; and The Traitors, given
The Phi Literary Society held its regular (jy members of the Freshman class.
weekly meeting Thursday night at 7:30, Friday afternoon a baseball game between

o'clock. The society decided to abolish the |Charlotte High School and the Wildkittens
rule about talking, so that the members of |
the two factions could discuss the
among themselves.

>! will be staged. Friday night will be the
topic | “double-header"—Jynior speeches and Glee
| Club performance.

The debate for the evening was, Resolved,| Saturday morning will be taken up with
That the Monroe Doctrine Should be Abol-| the Interelass track meet. In the afternoon
ished... For the affirmative, speeches were |}a promenade and outdoor festival will be
made by J. R. Gudger and W. R. Story. The | held. The Junior Week committees are
negative was upheld by J. H. Holshouser, | planning to have a Pathe News representa-
R. J. Smith and A. B. Williford. tive up to take pictures of the promenade

The subject for the next meeting will be, | and festival.

Resolved, That Muscle Shoals Should be} Saturday night will be the crowning event
Sold to Henry Ford. of the week. The entertainment to be put

At the meeting, J. R. Gudger was elected |on by the Juniors promises to excel all those
as salutatorian for Literary Society Night)of the past. The riotous days of Rome in
at conmmencement, its glory will be rivalled by this night—a

Metrohilian night that will never be forgotten,
| The parliamentary system was inaugurated | Some exceptionally good speaker will be
jat the last meeting of the Metrophilian Lit-| procured for “Y” service Sunday, and this,

Lost and Found

Lost—Social Psychology, by Gault; al-
so blue note-book, pocket-size, contain-
ing Philosophy notes. Will greatly ap-
preciate the return of these books.

K. S. McAlpin, 198 West.

Borrowed, from D East, one pair of
air-cushion tennis shoes. Borrower
please return. C. F. Monk, D East.

A Parker Duofold fountain pen
and a Physic text-book. Finder please
return to C, F. Smith, 2090 West.

Lost:

Lost—Dark green overcoat in chapel
Friday night. Finder will please notify
Byrd Crayton, 214 West.

and
Please
Pinkney, 210

Lost—Beginner’s Greek Book
French Short Story Collection.
return, if found, to J. F.

West.

with a Movie Monday night, will finish Ju-
nior Speaking.

Co-operation of all the students, in inviting
girls up, and in helping to do their part in
the fun and frolic, will make a Junior Speak-
ing “le plus bon.” ‘Ask that girl now.

SPANISH DEBATE

(Continued on page 7)
important question depends the future peace
of Spain.
The judges are Miss Laughlin and Mr.
Valera, of Central High School, in Char-
lotte, and Miss West, of Queens College.

A very interesting and pleasant meet-
ing of the Book Lover's Club was held
with Mrs. J. M. Douglas, last Thursday
afternoon, Interesting papers on “Col-
onial architecture were read by Misses
Julia Johnston and Lizzie Young. The
program for the coming year was discus-

sed and decided upon,

Dj jb
fl! /

71), ///f/,
} WH) WY)
Mi) f//' y Af /f7

<G ee 4

EDMUND HALLEY
1656-1742

Son of a London soap-boiler
who became Astronomer-
Royal. At the age of 20 headed
an expedition to chart the stars
of the Southern hemisphere.
Financed and handled the
printing of Newton’s immortal
Principia.

would first be visible.

tion of the great orbit of
itor—his scientific proof

As spectacular as a
comet has been the
world’s electrical devel-
opment. By continuous
scientific research the
General Electric Com-
pany has accelerated
this development and
has become a leader in
the industry.

of a comet are used by

The comet came back

The great comet that was seen by William
of Normandy returned to our skies in 1910
on its eleventh visit since the Conquest.
Astronomers knew when it would appear,
and the exact spot in the sky where it

.

Edmund Halley’s mathematical calcula-

this 76-year vis-
that comets are

part of our solar system—was a brilliant
application of the then unpublished Prin-
cipia of his friend Sir Isaac Newton.

The laws of motion that Newton and
Halley proved to govern the movements

scientists in the

Research Laboratories of the General Elec-
tric Company to determine the orbit of
electrons in vacuum tubes.

GENERAL ELECTRIC

