4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 17,

3924

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

The Question Box

Uncle Bud, Editor

I have been getting fine grades up until
here lately and I am real worried now. Last
' Saturday, I got a zero on my Math paper.
LeRoy McLaurin.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

“Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class Mr. McLaurin:
Set Se anes Z enacted ———-—| That's nothing to worry about.
Uncle Bud, Editor.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00
p.m, Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

| Dear Mr. Question Box: .
When I passed a girl on the streets of
Charlotte the other day, I threw a kiss at
| her. IT knew the young lady. Did I do
' wrong ? Mason Field.
Dear Mason:
Nothing wrong, only we wou!d call that

LISTON D. ELKINS..--..-..-- Editor-in-Chief
REGINALD L, PRICE Business Manager

Editorial Staff
Cc. M. S. McILWAINE..------ Managing Editor

TOA DAK Bese Assistant Managing Editor W. Z. BRADFORD.....------ Associate Editor | the height of laziness. The Q. B.
1, B. PRICE.....Assistant Managing Editor A, C, WILDMAN..-.--.------- Associate Editor

W._F. GALLOWAY._....-.---- Athletic Edit W. M. COX A Editor

J. M. SELSER....-.--- Peanut Parcher F Dear Unc:

ORITPA TL DISON Sarees cote eeeeeee Alumni Editor

Just as a matter of personal curiosity, I'd

B hi
uuibteb Enis like te know whether you’ve made anv New

“ Subscription J. M. GARRISON...-..------------ ..--Assistant :
.-Circulation Manager K. S. McALPIN-- .Service Manager Yoar's resolutions or not?
X A, iOM -Assistant Manager W. H. CROMWEL ----Bookkeeper
Vi HiCGYIN GHiiescs cee eee e eT yplat W. R) IIOUGH..-.- Advertising B. J. Rodgers.
SEEN E LONE — Dear Mr. Rodgers:
CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT Yes, I’ve made a resolution never té make

WATT McCAIN, Manager J. A. THOMPSON, Assistant Manager

REPORTERS’ CLUB

MARSHALL, C. K. : :

any more New Year resolutions, for i never
keep ‘em, anyway.
The Old Man Himself.

N, J. L. . BY.
HOLLINGSWORTH, A. H. RATCHFORD, B. U. SMITH, C. F.

old prophets fell upon one another’s necks
and wept, while I maintained that it began
in more recent times. One Robert Burns
|said something or other, about “her neck be-
‘ing like the swan,” and I thought perhaps
lthat he knew something about it. Red Mc-
{Combs believes that this indoor sport origi-
‘nated with the lynching parties of more
|recent times. He’s kind of bloodthirsty any-
how, so I don't believe he’s right. Do you

EDITORIAL

STUDENT. THOUGHT

HURD, A. M., Pres. MILLHOUS REGEN, E, K. 'Dez J “ ;

ABepy yea’ Vere MGM Ti

ROUTE AY ONG dy: THOMREON, J. B. got into a serious argument with Dick |
GARRISON, J. M. O'CONNOR, EP. STOREY, P. J. | McMillan the other day about the origin of
7 S, L. B. N ‘ y . M. : ¢ ‘

Cuan EMAL J, H Woes, M. necking. He said that it started when the |

Student sentiment would indicate that Davidson will endorse the Bok
Peace Plan unanimously. Campus discussion points to the fact that the mem-
bers of the student body are taking a deep interest in Mr. Bok’s effort to bring
the nations of the world into a harmony of thought and action. |
___ The great publisher will have performed a valuable mission to the world |
if he arouses the thought of the college men of America, and sets the brains of |
student life working on the problems of international peace. |

D

Already interest is centering in Junior Speaking. This festive occasion will
occupy the five days of Easter holidays, and will prove the real test of David- |
son’s social life. Every member of the student body should feel a personal
responsibility in helping make Junior Speaking a true success. |

D. |

FRIENDSHIP |

HEN dormitory days-are memories, maybe faded and dim, and it is|

hard’ to recall the things that have gone by, there will be one tender |

memory that even months and years cannot deface. College days may |

he forgotten in the strife of newer things, and the incidents of the campus and |
. class-room may have sunk from sight in a sea of forgetfulness, but one happy
memory will remain—the friendships of our college days. :

Ten years—or twenty years—into the future, let us project ourselves.
Who cares what marks were made; of what concern, now, are petty honors and
achievements, even though they were won by toil and effort; the glories of the
field of sport have been forgotten; and forensic battles have slipped beyond the |
view of memory. Forgotten are they, all, save that one gleaming recollection
which can never die—friendship.

Friends are made through service. Selfishness is flung to the winds and
egotism is a stranger where fellowship dwells. An act of kindness toward a
fellow being is a vital step toward the formation of a friendship. Through
service one learns to appreciate the virtues of a neighbor; these goodnesses are |
encouraged and emulated; the neighbor recognizes the attitude of service, and_
if there is within him the makings of a true friend, this service is returned in
the identical spirit which prompted the giving. Friendship must be mutual, and_
the spirit of service—the essence of real friendship—essentially must be mutual.
Friendship is a reward in itself and is “its own excuse for being.” Tt gives
with an open heart, and receives, but never seeks, with the same spirit of loy-
alty and unselfishness. ;

“A friend is one who knows all about us—and loves us anyway,” is a
proverb written in modern phraseology. Every man is human, and every
human is blessed with faults and misgivings. To understand a person is to,
recognize these failings, and in that recognition comes the test of friendship.
Faults are sordid and real; friendship is romantic and. aesthetic, thinks the

casual observer, and hence the reality of faultiness is apt to discourage the |

romance of friendship. This is the point where friendships are made or lost.
A true friend never frowns upon the defects, but lends himself to correct the
blemish. Nothing is too real, nothing is too flighty for friendship.

When everyone else has forgotten you, and it seems that the entire world
has frowned in contempt, there is always a friend whom you would pay any
price to see. You feel that he could comfort you and set you straight in the
pathway of life. You remember how he comforted you, and how much his
words of cheer meant to you when you went to him in an hour of need. Your
friend will stand by you under all circumstances, and remain loyal to you when
all others fail. It is the way of friendship. j :

The friends cultivated at Davidson will be friends throughout the course
of life. College life is peculiarly moulded for the formation of friendships and
for rendering service to fellow-man. On every hand there is an opportunity
to do something for someone else. Learn to be a friend and to make friends.
Friendship is priceless. It cannot be bought save through service and love.

By our friends will we remember the days that were spent on the Davidson
campus.

_-~ When our hair is silvered, and our step begins to falter, the mission of a
life-time fulfilled, may we ever turn to friendships formed at Davidson, and
thank God that made us and preserved us, for friends and friendship ties.

know where it all started?
Worried Willie Heston.
Dear Bill:

Certainly. Do you fail to recall the time
when Apollo took Venus up on Mount Olym-
phus, fed her some ambrosia and nectar?

Uncle Bud.

Dear Q. B.:

Do you believe that there’s anyone around
here who is really superstitious ?

J. Diddlums Laws.
Dear John: :

I am not certain about it, but I am pretty
well convinced that Jim Carr believes in
signs. Uncle Bud.
Dear Uncle Bud;

If I should send you a beautiful and in-
spiring little poem of six or seven hundred
lines, would you publish it? The name of
it is “Milk, Beautiful Milk.”

B. Walthall.
Dear Boy:

Would be tickled clean down to our calves
to print it, only we might have to condense
it. Uncle B.

Dear Uncle Bud:

I thought that I would take my pen in
hand and tell you a little about the farming I
did last summer. I crossed a pig-weed and
an egg-plant and am now raising ham and
eggs. I tried giving the hens hot water to
drink so they would lay poached eggs, but
it wouldn't work. Isn't that a shame?

Nick Dellinger.
Dear Son:

That was too bad. T had a little bad luck
myself. TI crossed a pepper plant with an
Eskimo Pie, but the poor thing died with
chills and fever. The Question Box.
Mr. Bud:

Do you think that dancing will ever be
one of the courses of study here? .

Dick Littlejohn.
Mr. Littlejohn:
' No. No more than I think that a blind
man would go to a musical comedy or sub-
scribe to the Police Gazette. Uncle Bud.

| Dear Mr. Bud:
| At times I harken back to the primeval
| times and feel the impulse to scamper around
| the trees as Tarzan of the Apes does. Isn't
| that peculiar ? Harry Lindamood.
Dear Mr. Lindamood:

Yes, monkey glands work wonders.

Uncle Bud.

Miss Eloise Martin entertained a few
young people at Mah Jongg, last Thurs-
day night, sandwiches and hot chocolate
were served as refreshments. Those
present were: Misses Sara  Lingfe,
Dorothy Finlayson, Orrie Steele, Ellen

McGill and George.

STRENGTH OF CONVICTIONS

(Continued from page 1)
those who have convictions with the courage
of their convictions.

In the first class, he placed men unable to
form any opinion at all. He classed them as
drifters, ungodly men, and chaff. He said,
“T would rather see a man with convictions
that were wrong than a man with no convic-
tions at all.”

In the second class, he placed cowards and
scared men who will not trust their convic-
tions. In touching upon this type, he con-
tinued, “Men who amount to something in
this world must have convictions and not be
afraid to express them.”

Of the third class, he said the man who
goes contrary to his opinion is not only dis-
honest with himself but also with God. He
added, “It is not hard to live up to our con-
victions when they run right, but when it is
so very hard is when they run contrary to
our de&ires.”

He spoke highly of the man of the fourth
class. ‘God speaks more ‘often to man
through his convictions than in any other
way. Whenever man turns a deaf ear\to
his convictions, he turns a deaf ear to God.
To the men who have convictions and fol-
low them, the world owes a debt that it is
unable to pay.”

He stated further, that convictions are in
no way conclusive without knowledge. . “It
does my heart good to see how Billy Sunday
is holding up the Old Book as the very basis
of our relation with God.

necessary to give convictions. There must
‘be a personal relation with Jesus Christ for
that.”

He concluded by saying, “What I want is
that more men shall get hold of the living,
resurrected Christ. The Cross has done its
work and it is now time for our convictions
to work, for it is through our convictions
that God speaks to us and through Him
shall be given salvation to the world.”

| AFFILIATION OF
PHI ALPHA PI

(Continued from page 1)

the fraternity, which will be held in the
spring. At that time the permanent name
of the organization will also be selected.
“Phi Kappa Pi,” the temporary name, is the
local name of one of the strongest chapters,
that at the Stevens Institute of Technology.

Most of the chapters have already had
considerable experience in the fraternity
world, their ages ranging as high as 26
years. Their average is 10 years, the total
age of the chapters being 120 years.

Phi Alpha Pi was founded two years ago.

It was chosen as one of the charter members
of the new national from among the 84 fra-
ternities represented at the conference. In
addition to its being a distinct honor for
members of the Davidson chapter, it is an
added distinction for the college. This new
national will bring the total number of na-
tional organizations at Davidson to eight.
It will be the third national installed at Da-
vidson this year.

In selecting the charter chapters of the

organization, due consideration was given to |
Geographically they cover a |

their location.
large territory, thus forming the nucleus for
real national, rather than sectional expansion.

The active membership of the organization
is nearly three hundred. The alumni mem-
bership is approximately one thousand.

To Dr. F. K. Fleagle, the popular head
af the Davidson College department of Span-
ish, who is a member of Phi Alpha Pi,,is
due a great deal of credit for his effort$ in
the interest of the fraternity. Among other
things he has encouraged high scholarship
among the members of the fraternity. Last
year ‘Phi Alpha Pi made the highest average
in scholarship of any fraternity at Davidson.

Phi Alpha Pi was represented at the con-
ference by R. G. White, ex-’25. He was
appointed as chairman of one of the impor-
tant committees of the national organization.

ATHLETICS DISCUSSED BY
COMMITTEE AT RALEIGH

During the last week a meeting of the
committee on the Co-operative Administra-
tion and Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
was ‘held in Raleigh, N. C. The main work
of this committee was the discussion of rec-
ommendations to be submitted to the North
Carolina Association of Colleges, and the
duties of an administration committee were
decided upon. The main body of the rec-
ommendations was concerning the eligibility
of players. One of the suggestions made
was that no player could represent a college
‘after having attended some other college for
}one or more years.

{ Representatives from ali North Carolina |
Dr. |
Black, and Messrs. Van Sant, Goldiere,|J. M. Douglas, who for so long a time has | 1 out of 4. Referee: Faul; Umpire: Gra-
| ham.

|colleges were present at this meeting.

{promoted athletics, represented Davidson.

Simply reading |
the Bible, though, will not give knowledge |

'evening the count.

_ shot.

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS
AGO

Football “D’s” Are Awarded

Saturday morning amid the clapping of
hands, the stamping of feet, the cheering of
the crowd,’ and other outward manifestations
of the student body's pride in and honor for
the varsity football team, the letters were
presented to the successful contestants in
football during the past season.

“Railroad” Clark, president of the Ath-
Ietic Association, was master of ceremonies.
As each boy stepped up to receive the cov-
eted “D” a storm of applause greeted him.

Those receiving letters were: W. B.
Crouch, G. M. Robson, C. B. Robson, F. L.
White, L. L. McAlister, H. M. Spann, J. C.
McMaster, S. R. Brady, H. H. Massey, L.
M. Fischel, W. I. Johnson, and Pitts Doug-
las. These men were initiated into the Mys-
tic “D” club on Saturday night.

All Davidson men are proud of the record
of the past season in football, and we wish
to congratulate those who received “D's”,
one and all, in winning the highest honor con-
ferred by the Davidson Athletic Association.

The winners of “D. C.” will bé announced
in a later issue.

At a meeting of the student body Monday,
January 13th, the following officers were
elected to fill the vacancies left by men not
returning to college: J. H. Miller, president
student body; L. L. McAlister and A. D.
McArn, vice-presidents; A. L. Currie, sec-
retary and treasurer.

The Senior class postponed any election of
officers until a later date.

The Sophomore class reinstated the offi-
cers elected last spring.

The Freshman class elected as president,
J. P. Price; for vice-president, G. H. Cor-
nelson, Jr.; for secretary and treasurer, J.
McD. Richards.

Everybody knows Mr. Schofield’s old store
on the corner opposite the White Drug Com-
pany. Juniors and Seniors in college now
may even remember the place as “Skit’s” for
nearly a quarter of a century, the most
popular “joint” in town. Once again this
store will be opened, Again it will bloom
with prosperity. G. H. Beal, ’21, is the en-
terprising owner of this new business, and
judging from his plans, the old store is due
to have a big “comeback.” It opens today,
if all works well, and so there will be some-
thing new in Davidson!—a place where you
can get the very best of home-made candies
and cakes.

It’s rather a relief to hear “student body”
again instead of “battalion.”

WILDCATS SWAMP CONCORD

(Continued from page 3)

a field goal. Score: Davidson 8, Char-
lotte 7.
Second Half

Leeper made one of two free throws,
Yates made one out of
two shots, putting the Linkmen in the lead.
Sapp tossed in a field goal, giving the Wild-
cats the edge. Yates made foul shot, tying
the score. Nieman got under the basket and
dropped the ball through. Sapp tied the
score again with a nice shot from the floor.
Yates shot a long one, putting the Vani S|
the lead.

Nieman and Leeper each added a baskets
giving Charlotte a commanding lead. Staley
cut the lead to 4 points with a backhand
Schenck contributed a field goal.
Davis missed a foul shot. Nieman made a
long shot. Laird missed a free throw. Nie-
man made two crip shots, giving the “Y” a
Schenck was put out on per-

12 point lead.
Hewlett

sonals, MeMillan taking his place.
missed the foul shot.

Laird cut the lead when he shot a goal.
Smith missed a foul shot. Laird made two
free throws good and then tossed in a bas-
ket just before the final whistle. Score:
Davidson 20, Charlotte “Y,” 26.

Davidson (20) Position Charlotte “VY,” (26)
Staley (4) Nieman (12)

eet (OC) ee eee Marsh (0)
Left Forward
Davis (4) peewee eee Leeper (7)
Center
Choy) (@) ee Schenck (2)
Righ Guard ;
Boggs (0) meeaataaaseaeeee = Smith (1)

Left Guard
Substitutions: Hewlett for Staley; Yates
(4) for Marsh; McMillan for Schenck ;
Averett for Leeper. Foul shots: Staley 0
out of 2; Hewlett 0 out of 1; Laird 2 out
of 4; Davis 0 out of 3; Marsh 0 out of 1;
Yates 2 out of 3; Leeper 1 out of 2; Smith
