8

Robert King Is Received
By Omicron Delta Kappa

Georgia Synodical Evangelist Rec-
ognized for Meritorious Service

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 23; 1924

| 17. Virginia Sketch—Chorus.
There were about one hundred stu-
| dents and townspeople in attendance.

| SEVEN MEN REPRESENT Y. M.
C. A. IN LEXINGTON CHURCH
SERVICES
| Last week-end Harry Price, George
Dupuy, Albert Hillhouse, Watt McCain,
Ted Jones, Liston Elkins, and Joe Walk-
er composed a Y. M. C. A. deputation to
Lexington, N. C. The boys were royally
entertained during their stay, they report.

Sunday morning Joe Walker conduct-
ed services at the Presbyterian Church
while Harry Price and Albert Hillhouse
visited the Methodist Church.

Later in the day, Price and Hillhouse
took charge of the young people’s meet-
ing.

Ted Jones spoke at the regular even-
ing service at the Presbyterian Church,
his theme being, The Surrender of Self
and Family to Jesus Christ.

The morning following, the boys turn-
ed from. church to school, and here,
Harry Price and Albert Hillhouse took
the floor again, speaking first to three
of the classes in the school, and later, to

‘College Gym Scene of Final Lyceum Number
| Four High School Games Full of Entertainments

The many friends of Miss Mary James! Charlotte, Cornelius, Mooresville, The Virginia Girls Delight Davidson
Richards and Miss Mary Caldwell Black Cyossnore, China Grove and Bel- | Audience With Vocal and Instru- |
will be glad to hear of their return to mont Highs Seen on Local | mental Numbers
this country from an extended trip to Floor PERRIS
England jand the continent. Accom- pale ae On Friday night, February 22nd, the
panied by Miss Richards’ brother, Mr. This season has brought a number of | last number of the Lyceum was present-
James McDowell Richards, a student at exceptionally good high school basket-| ed by the Virginia Girls. This number
Oxford, they visited France, Italy and hall games to the hill. Probably the| was by far the most entertaining of the
Switzerland. They also spent some time best were the four played on the popular series. The Virginia Girls are a group
in Belgium and Holland. After a short) varsity court last week. The partici-| of native Virginians, hence their
visit in London on their return from the} pants were: Crossnore-Cornelius, Char-| name, The Virginia Girls. The orchestra,
mainland they sailed from South Hamp-' Jotte - Mooresville, Belmont - Cornelius,! the mast outstanding feature of the
ton February 20th on the Olympia and Charlotte-China Grove. Charlotte High | program, was composed of the follow-,|
landed in New York the 26th. emerged as champion of group seven in| ing young ladies: Miss John, violin; |
the elimination series for the Western| Miss Rurisch, bass violin; Miss Reichert,
Conference. : piano; Miss Green, saxaphone; Miss

Crossnore 9—Cornelius 11 | Everett, violin; and Miss West, violin. |

Ou Tuesday afternoon Crossnore and) Each time the orchestra played it re-
Cornelius staged their annual basketball’ ceived so much applause that it was
game. The result was uncertain from. forced to respond with an encore. The
the beginning, neither team ever securing program was as follows:

a safe lead, close guarding held the score 1, March—Maryland. "

to the lowest total witnessed on the local, 2. Overture—Bohemian Girls.

court this year. When the final whistle 3. Chromatic Rag.

blew, Cornelius was lucky enough to be 4. Hark to the Mandolin and Just a

Town News

Doctor Robert King, ’06, who conduct-
ed the Life Work Campaign at Davidson,
prominent leader in the Southern Pres-
byterian Church, has been elected to
honorary membership in Omicron Delta
Kappa Fraternity. He will be initiated
at an early date into Delta Circle, David-
son.

“Bob” King has distinguished himself
as an evangelistic worker and pastor
since his days at Davidson and Union
Theological Seminary. He is now Synod-
ical evangelist for the state of Georgia.

Omicron Delta Kappa frequently rec-
ognizes Davidson men who have won
distinction as leaders in the world, just
as she honors leadership on the college
campus. The only alumni initiate of
this year is Doctor King,

six

Doc. Bob King while conducting meet-
ings on the campus for the students, was
guest at a number of receptions and din-
ners given in his honor at the homes of
him many friends here. He was enter-
tained by Mary and Elizabeth
Young at their home Tuesday evening
and at Dr. and Mrs. Erwin’s home for
dinner Wednesday.

Misses

PURDY’S CONVALESCENCE
AN EVENT OF INTEREST

, , . fe
The Thelemite Club had the pleasure the one in the lead. Score: Crosnore 9, Little Blue. we oe see coer Uy nese

The recovery and convalescence of]of being entertained last Friday after- Cornelius 11. Chorus MLA : . 5

Wallace Purdy has been of gratification] noon by Miss Mary Young. The spe-! Mooresville 25—Charlotte 28 5. Violin solo—Miss John. pe Rice Cae Sere Sunday

to each member of the Davidson student] cial guests on this occasion were Mrs. sy far the best played game of the 6. Vocal solo—Miss Rurisch. Sanity pa i a hn ne sass

body. The main reasons for this interest 3rown, Mrs. Rumple, Mrs. Nesbit, and week was between Mooresville and Char- 7. Ballet Egyptian and Sally Trom- Bene AES Me Ub taper ey Dusan

ee : os ; : ay , att McCain, George Dupuy, Ted Jones

are doubtless the untold pleasure he gave] Miss Mary Monroe. Dr. Hood made a lotte Highs Tuesday night. Last year bone. , 1 Lis Elki

to the students in the rite of vaccination, very interesting talk on “Memory and > Mooresville climinated Charlotte in a Orchestra GONG TIsen) EULSHE

and the unusual anecdotes which he re- Imagination.” bse hot game and captured second honors; 9. Until Tomorrow and Brown Bear.

lates concerning his first day’s freedom. in the conference. Thus, the struggle | Chorus

One of the most interesting of these is

Saxophone solo—Miss Green.
the one about getting a haircut.

All five of the circles enjoyed Wash- between the old rivals was doped to be) 9.

4 ‘ Hay ington birthday parties last week, ®" exciting onc—and it was. | 10. Vocal solo—Miss: Everett.

Immediately’ after being dismissed Gitelee Miinbor onGiemacting. at uMire Alternately one team and then the| 11. Popular Melody—Orchestra.
from the infirmary, he decided that he Archibald Currie’s haihe ah eecaten other forged ahead. Both teams fea-| 12. Violin solo—Miss West.
would cither have to get a haircut or ah sea Rea i HI ‘Smith a “phe tured with excellent team work. Due! 13. Piano solo—Miss Reichert.
become a professional pianist. As he Anacerral Hanis if} Alle ‘Washin rtons in t® Superior passing and to the superb) 14. Reading, The Finger of God—Miss
walked into the barber shop, he noticed a rete Die Columbia pan ne guarding of Morris, Charlotte come out} Rurisch.
that the negro eyed his iridescent com- wea epecial Barapa Sa erhariiat the big end of a 28-25 tally. | 15. The Crucifix—Miss Everett.
plexion with evident interrogation. Pre U IRIN MERE MTEC ATCO TRL | Cornelius 20—Belmont 22 | 16. Prayer Perfect.

“Haircut, sah? Yes sah, cap’en,” said

Circle four, meeting at Mrs. Lingle’s| In a fast game Thursday night, the

the negro as Purdy sat down in the ; ; i i
F ‘ Jae * was “ake entertain several) formidable Cornelius High, County
chair. With a very unusual silence and Mosnita \is jukencul ie) CUS GLAND scverel " . ‘i * al MR. J. L. SCOTT
show of nervousness, the barber cut the| TcPresentatixes from Barium Springs champions for 1923, and undefeated pice
Pea eM Orphanage-4.The main feature on the Viously, met their Waterloo in the) ae
hair on the left of Purdy’s head. When Ds : : | Mr. J. L. Scott, ’81, of Graham
; _ oe "| program of circle three which was held) strong Belmont aggregation. More ac-| J F :

he reached th . yi ; ; | JY. C., died a ital i -ens- “ ee,
the back, he asked with a at Mrs. Fleagle’s home, was a very in-| curate shooting gave the victory to the N. C, died at a hospital in Greens Nothing’s too good for my

rather uneven voice, “You ain't the gen- ; ; boro, N. C.,, on February roth, after 9
‘man dat | aan yi) g structive talk on “Phases of Mission| Belmont basketeers, 22-20, : ; ie boy!

a at had smallpox, is you?” Just as|2\, ess ah F an illness of about ten days, due to i 53)
Wallace answered’ the affirmative, he| Work in Georgia,” by Mrs. Brown, China Grove 17—Charlotte 35 WME erycinelaa: Huneral services wereaull What the governor” says,
heard a pair of scissors strike the floor, With Citing ie which | had de-'f held at Graham, last Friday at 1 oes!
and the barber groaned heavily. Mrs. Henry Lewis Smith and Mrs.| Yeloped ICO the pants horse” of BrouP | o'clock. A Mellon outfit complete from

Now it is clear to us all why our friend} Frank Brown who have been visiting! ae ean - eal Cone eal Mr. Scott, who was familiarly head to toe.

are SADR zs ben artic y coveral days | the championship of group seven by de-| y ; : 4
Purdy made such a hasty trip to Moores- Mrs. Archibald Currie for several days | eta iris Friday night {| Ktown as Jack Scott, was one of J Everythin Colledelmenweare

11 he firs 2 pm a c ey * s | teating (3) rmer team riday night) f
ville the first day he was out of the in-| have been the guests at a number of| ; 'f the prominent busine’s men of
fi i ayers praia tip : Se ermine : 35-17. Apparently handicapped by an ; : : | real college men, not the cartoon

rmary. receptions given them by friends during} ror wd Uh | North Carolina. He was a leader Pika) ose

their visit here. unfamiliar court, “fhe China Grove) |} variety as pictured in the comic

in community life of his home town,
and also exerted a wide influence
for good throughout the state.

| cagers failed to find the basket until!
| Charlotte had piled up a decisive lead,
and) which was never endangered.

Miss Nancy Grey, who is attending
Winthrop College, spent the week-end
in Davidson with her parents, Dr. and

supplements.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Harding Suits of attractive Spring, En-

Mrs. W. R. Grey small son spent last Sunday with Dr. and | Charlotte High, football champions of In 1877. Mr. Scott came : from glish and American fabrics--
J Mrs. C. R. Harding. | 1923-24, are bidding strongly to duplicate ane ene rec : Military Bea oneasy thes, high Button,
; Asheville’s feat of last year—that of School at Hillsboro, N. C,, and t fairl id
| : 5 se matriculated at Davidson. One of FOUSETS TAIEIY) WICC.
The many friends of Miss Elizabeth} copping both football and basketball : : : g son, h 5 ;
J : es | ; : : his professors states that he was Scotch Mist overcoats -- rain-
€ invite our Grey will be glad to hear of her recent | championship honors, At least they will p FG it Siti ty f Soft h h
graduation from The Nursing School! in all probability furnish the All-State one of the most popular and like- proot. t hats, caps, heavy
Business of the Presbyterian Hospital, of New) teanm with one man in their stellar able eae in his UU teny) who ever brogue oxfords, unusual neck-
York City. She will return soon to/ gaurd, Morris, whose: playing has been || cme to Davidson. This same pro- wear. Everything to give a well-

fessor also spoke of Mr. Scott's un-
usual sense of humor, and told of
many practical jokes propounded by

Davidson, | consistently remarkable.

dressed touch to a young man’s
get up. Prices moderate.

Miss Mary Price, of Lewisburg, W. Va..|

LARGE OR SMALL Mrs. A. H. Whitaker’ has returned to |

Sunday, March 2nd. The Look-Out C
mittee wishes to extend cordial inv

yita- |

om- | liminaries for Emory-Trinity

Debate. |

John Scott. He remained in Gra-
ham practically his entire life, but

j eh ..| will arrive in a short time to visit her him. He is probably best remem- .
ba SIE VALE OrIS mone an sister, Mrs. W. W. Wood at her home on | sane by the older alumni aid MELLON’S
peceen eta North Main Street, | ownspeople as originator of the 4
Toe | nickname “Skit” for Col. Schofield.
The Senior Christian Endeavor had aj | While in college he was a good
INDEPENDENCE very helpful and interesting meeting last | CALENDAR | student, was a member of Kappa Announcing Our New Location
Sunday night. There were about 20 | mMNussdae Rath eon Alpha, and at one time served as N P. Offi
TRUST (ee) members present. Miss Sarah Lingle | ee Pp : M SCRGMA A Gat Literare president of the Philanthropic Soci- ear Post ice
. had charge of the program. Miss Ellen forest Se is sd ety. 9
Black and Mrs. J. P. Williams, sang a ceed ; ; ; | After graduating at Davidson | Norton $ Barber Shop
7 i duet. Phe problem of furnishing the | 7 oe P. M.—Philanthropic Lit- | with the degree of A.B., Mr. Scott
ON THE SQUARE convicts with Bibles was brought ‘up by | erary Society. | began his career in the Sidney
the president, and all were urged to Friday, February 29— | Cotton Mills of Graham, owned |
bring any old Bible that they might have, | 7:30 P. M.—Intercollegiate Pre- $/§} and operated by his father, Mr. jj;

S. & W.

tions to all the young people of the 10:00. P. M.—Reporters’ Club. | his interests were not entirely in
town, to attend the regular prayer meet-| Wrestling—Davidson vs. Caro- the manufacturing industry. He §} ae
CHARLOTTE : N. C. ing held every Sunday night in the base-| lina, at Chapel Hill. was for sometime president. of the | CA F E E R I AS

ment of the church. Saturday, March 1— North Carolina School for the | i :
7:30 P. M.—Moving pictures. | Deaf; aun Senator Bee an | Good Home Cooking and
resting Davideoniven mance County, 1913-17; Past Grand ff
CHARLOTTE — MOORESVILLE — STATESVILLE Mia diana eammeeme|||| Cimpuibuen to nanincias || Courses Service
WHITE BUS LINE Sunday, March an thians in N. C.; a 32nd degree | peed sad
Leaves Charlotte 1:05 P. M.—Christian Endeavor Mason, and an elder in the Gra- 9} {| Charlotte Winston-Salem
A. M. A. M. P. M. P. M. Training Class. ham Presbyterian Church. | | Asheville and Greenville, S. C.
Gharlotte:---— —<-- J.-- --=.. 7:30 10:30 * 1:00 5:30 2:00 P, M.—Ministerial Band} Mr. Scott is survived by his wife, fj}
Geet emt ste es hi eet pene || | cela LY
Davidson ---. -... --- 8:30 11:30 2:00 6:30 Service. of Davidson, two sons, Col. Don
Mooresville __-. ---. -__- 8:45 11:45 2:15 6:45 7:15 P. M—Volunteer Band Scott, of Graham, and John Scott, of TUXEDOS - FULL DRESS SUITS
Troutman -_.. ---. ---. 9:15 12:15 2:50 7:15 Tuesday, March 4— Graham, and John Scott, of —FOR RENT—
Statesville ---_ ---_ ---_ ---. 9:30 12:30 3:05 7:30 6:45 P. M—Metrophilian Literary Greensboro; three daughters, Mrs.
Leaves Statesville Society. C. W. Causey, of eae ae: a“ Masquerade Costumes - Party
A. M. A.M. . M. . M. 7:15 P. M.—Pandeinic Literary J. Mel Thompson, of Mebane, an : = e .
Statesville eit Cr 8:00 10:00 00 PS Society. Mrs. J. S. Stevens, of Denver. Favors bead ame dei
sree CRED cui 27 CES pile ine 48 4:45 Thursday, March 6— The numerous friends of Mr. wants. Mail orders given
Dacia fries. 9:00 10:55 3:00 eae 7:00 P. M.—Eumenean [uterary Scott among the Davidson alumni, prompt attention.
9:05 11:00 3:05 5 :30 Society. as well as the citizens of Davidson : —_
Sea J 11:20 °3:20 5:45 7:00 P. M—Phifanthropic Lit- tegret very much that such a loyal ‘Southe?n Awning &DecoratingCo.
aw--- ---- ---- ---- 10:00 12:00 4:00. 6:30 erary Society. son of the college has been called 9 £. Fifth St
For Further Information See Driver = home. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

