THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 1, 1924

I can furnish you with com-

plete Radio Sets and Parts
Radiola and other
Reliable Sets

Complete outfits installed on

short notice
Work guaranteed
$29.50 to $500.00
F. J. BENDER

E. CENTER AVE. MOORESVILLE, N. C.

“Nothing’s too good for my
boy!”

What the “governor” says,

oes!

A Mellon outfit complete from
head to toe.

Everything college men wear--
real college men, not the cartoon
variety as pictured in the comic
supplements.

Suits of attractive Spring, En-
glish and American fabrics--
coats on easy lines, high button,
trousers fairly wide.

Scotch Mist overcoats -- rain-
proof. Soft hats, caps, heavy
brogue oxfords, unusual neck-
wear. Everything to give a well-
dressed touch to a young man’s
get up. Prices moderate.

MELLON’S

‘S. & W.
CAFETERIAS

Good Home Cooking and
Courteous Service
Is Our Specialty

Charlotte Winston-Salem
Asheville and Greenville, S. C,

TUXEDOS - FULL DRESS SUITS
— FOR RENT —

Masquerade Costumes - Party
Favors.- Novelties - State your

wants. Mail orders given
prompt attentien.

Southern Awning &DecoratingCo.
9 E. Fifth St
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

We Invite Your

Business

LARGE OR SMALL

INDEPENDENCE
- TRUST CO.

“ON THE SQUARE”

|
| Town News

|

| Mrs. Hillhouse, the mother of Albert

| Hillhouse, spent the week-end on the

| hill visiting her son. While on the hill

|she was a guest of Dr. and Mrs. H. B.
Arbuckle.

|

| Mrs. J. M. Douglas who has been visit-

|ing her uncle, in Red Springs, who has

| been seriously ill, returned last Wednes-

day.

Mrs. J. F. MacConnell was called to
Baltimore by the death of her mother,
Mrs. Doyle. Mrs. Doyle has been a. visi-
tor in Davidson, and her many friends
extend their deepest sympathy, to Mrs.
| MacConnell in her bereavement.

Miss Mary Black is visiting her broth-
er, Mr. Jack Black, and his wife, in
Greenville,

Dr. and Mrs. Sloop and children were
guests at the homes of Dr. Martin and
Prof. A. Currie while in Davidson.

Mrs. W. R. Grey, Miss Elizabeth and
Dick Grey motored to Hendersonville,
iast week-end where they visited Mr.
| Chas, Grey and family.

The Rummage Sale and Tag Day for
the Civic Leagues proved to be a very
good success. The Rummage Sale will
continue through this week.

| Miss May Ellinwood leaves the first
| week in May for New York. She will
|be the guest of her sister Mrs. Woolsey
ifor a few weeks before going to her
eee homes in Cornwall, Conn.

| Dr. H. B. Arbuckle attended the Pi
| Kappa Alpha Convention in St. Louis,
|last week.

| —_——.
Mrs. Ellis entertained the Young Mat-
rons Club last Friday afternoon. The
| guests of the occasion were their hus-
|bands. A.salad and ice course was serv-
'ed as refreshments.

|
|} The Woman’s Auxiliary will give a
pageant this week.

Huntersville, Troutman, Cooleemee and
Davidson troops were represented. On
account of the rain the meeting was held
in the Civic League Hall. The Court of
Award and Troop Committee were pres-
ent at the meeting. Daisy Caldwell won
the prize for the most points for the
last two months’ work. Tenderfoot,
Second Class, Home Nurse, Laundress,
Health Winner, Hostess, Child Nurse,
Needle Woman, Dress Makers, Scribe,
Athlete, Dancers, Musician, Bee Keepers’
badges were awarded.

| After the presentation of merit badges
|by Capt. Johnsie Shelton, stunts, games
and songs were enjoyed. “The Blue-
birds” presented the best stunt. Miss
Kate Ranson, of Huntersville gave a
reception. After this a picnic supper
was enjoyed by all.

OLD DAVIDSON STAFF TO BE
FED BY NEOPHYTES

At a meeting of the Davidsonian staff,
held last Monday evening, the new staff
voted to give the retiring staff a feed some

A Girl Scout Rally was held at David- |
son, Saturday, April 26th at four o’clock. |

OPENS TONIGHT!

STEWART PARK
SWIMMING POOL AND

SKATING RINK

MOORESVILLE, N. C.

COME AND BRING YOUR FRIENDS

“DAVIDSON MEN WELCOME”

time after May 5th. G. D. Rodgers was | ities is that of consecration. Consecration
elected chairman of the committee in charge |to ideals, consecration of your time ind
and GC. F. Monk and C. F. Smith were also faculties, to your life work will insure suc-
put on the committee. The feed will take | cess in your line of work when you are in
place some time about the beginning of next | the line of work divinely appointed for you.”
week and will be held in the Pi Kappa Alpha} J. L. McLean presided, introducing the
Hall. This will probably be the last mect-| speaker. Hodgin and Rice were the pianists.
ing of the old staff in any capacity. | :
| SPANISH CLUB INITIATES
SEVERAL NEW MEMBERS

TOWN OF DAVIDSON
WILL HAVE MANY
“y IMPROVEMENTS| The Spanish Club at its recent meeting, on
—_ | Tuesday, April 22nd, initiated the following
P 6 FILLER — iBAenr‘SHici t men into membership: W. E. Milton, J. L.
By September of this year, if all im-| Hall, S. S. McNair, P. F. Causey, and T. T.
provements planned for the town of| Jones. As a part of the initiation each man
Davidson. are completed, it will no long-|had to give a short speech in Spanish. Pro-
er be a place of mud, but a small, clean| fessor Fleagle also read a paper as part of
city. All of its streets will be hard-/the program. The club decided to meet the
surfaced. | expenses of the recent Spanish debate by
Water and sewer lines have been laid canvassing the different ‘Spanish classes.
and soon as wells can be dug they will) The next regular mecting will be held on
be put into use, The town having a sep-| Tuesday, May 8th. This meeting will be in
arate system will insure the college an)|the form of a feed. The officers for next
adequate supply at all times. The pave-| year will also be elected at this time.
ment of Depot Street is now under con-|

structi 1 will t ompleted in the
hae ates: Ny pias an this street is, ATENDANCE UNUSUALLY
GOOD AT
SUNDAY SCHOOL

finished, the work of widening Main |
Street will be started. Main Street will
be widened six feet on each side ex-|
cept in the business district where it will! Last Sunday the attendance at all the rural
be widened 12 feet on each side. This | Sunday Schools was exceptionally good. A
will make it 42 fect in width. Curbing, |jarge number of Davidson students preach
gutters and storm-sewers will be placed | and teach somewhere in this section each
on each side. |Sunday. The reports for the Sunday Schools
attended are as follows: Cornelius, 60;
Shearer, 30; Convict Camp, 60; Mill Chapel,
32.

At Cornelius the men attending were Ed-
dington, Lyerly and Wade Allison. The at-
tendance here was somewhat below the aver-
age. A very spirited contest has just closed
and the winning class was given a weiner
roast by the losers. * Last Sunday six Bibles
were presented for reciting the Shorter Cate-
chism, four of which were given to members
of Wade Allison’s class.

Harry Price made the talk at the Convict
Camp. Interest seems to be increasing there.
Others that were with Harry wete Lee Mc-
Clain, Woods, Houck, Fenton and Moffett.

South Street, also known as Academy
Street, will be hard surfaced. Depot
Street is being paved with bithulithic
and concrete. The county has given as-
surance that it will improve Concord
Street and also improve Concord Street
extension, connecting it with the new
road that runs from Cornelius to Con-
cord, The connecting of Concord Street
with this road ought to be of great
value to Davidson merchants. Side-
walks will be laid on South Street to
meet the demands of the people who
live on that street.

When these improvements are com-
pleted Davidson will no longer be a
town but a small city.

Gibbs, Crinckly, Simms, McAlpine, Frank--
lin and Ray went to Shearer. The pulpit
there is being filled by a member of the Min-
isterial Band each Sunday. The regular
pastor, Mr. Barnes, has been called to an-
other field, and until another is secured the
pulpit will be filled by a Davidson man each
Sunday. This summer the pulpit will be
filled by Wilson Moore, of the class of ’22,
who is now at Union Seminary. The Chris-
tian Endeavor meeting was led by Gibbs,
Franklin and Simms. The program was
more varied than usual and a larger attend-
ance was also noticed.

Purdy and Yeargin went to Mill Chapel.

Get one before you leave school:
“The LIFE OF WOODROW WILSON”

By Josephus Daniels
See J. D. Laws, 204 Watts

“Since 1868 The Home of Good Shoes”

For Men -

Footwear
that is

Stylish
Servicable
Comfortable

Complete Stocks For
Young Men

GILMER-MOORE CO.

CHARLOTTE

DOCTOR GREEN SPEAKS TO
MINISTERIAL BAND

Success was the subject used by Dr. J. B.

CHARLOTTE — MOORESVILLE — STATESVILLE
WHITE BUS LINE

Leaves Charlotte

A. M. A, M. P. M. P. M.
Greene, Professor of Theology at Columbia Ghatlotte: 22 ee 7:30 10:30 1:00 5:30 ©
Seminary ,in his address before the Minis- Huntersville io uauuoueee Suse 8:10 11:10 1:40 6:10
ce vee Cee oS a
n introducing his subject, the speaker Wiemcertllesas ce ee 8:45 11:45 2:15 6:45
brought out the fact that all men in all walks Mroutmansosos Loos ooey alee 9:15 12:15 2:50 7:15
of life desire success, and success of the right Statesvillkesaapessacease ae 9:30 12:30 3:05 7:30
kind is a worthy goal for a man in his life Leaves Statesville
career. A. M. A. M. P. M. P. M.
“The four fundamentals of success, qualit- Statesville; #2 222-222) 2225 8:00 10:00 2:00 4:30
ies with the application of which any man} § Sromehiecc cv TTB 28 $10
may achieve success, are attention, continu- Mavidsong re eae ee eee 9:00 10:55 3:00 5:25
ation, concentration, and consecratior Gornelitist 22 28) 2s ee 9:05 11:00 3:05 5:30
“A man to be successful must be Bontive Huntersville -- ---- ---- ---- 9:20 11:20 3:20 5:45
to his work, As students your immediate Charlotte ---- ---- ---- ---- 10:00 12:00 4:00 6:30

work is preparation for your great life-work,

and to be successful you must give diligent
attention to your preparation.”

The second characteristic of a successful
man is continuation. Here the speaker cited
instances in which the power of continuance
was portrayed, and that continuance account-

ed in a large measure for the success of the
person involved.

“Concentration is absolutely essential for
success. Concentrate on the job in hand if
you would make a success of the work. De-
termine your course in life and concentrate
on it.

“The final element of success, and. one
which in a way sums up the other character-

This progressive age con-
stantly discovers a better
way of doing things—always
im prove s — develops
processes that excell.

Our tailors at Fashion Park,
for instance, have developed
the Turole tailoring treat-
ment—a method of making
“soft” clothing possessing
all the fine lines that well
groomed men demand.

~EFIRD'S

G

=

There’s Always a Better Way. of Doing Things

Turole is pliant—has easy,
comfortable lines—conforms
to the wearer’s action or in-
action—is thoroughly dis-
tinguished.

The Turole tailoring treat-
ment is available in a series -
of interesting style develop-

ments—we’re making a spe-
cial exhibit of them now.

