“THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 20, 1924

ALUMNI NEWS

ALUMNI NOTES

’23—Frank Toney is in Gresnsboro in the |
automobile business. |

|

'24—J. W. DeArmon is teaching and

coaching football at Lowell High School,
Lowell, N. C.

'24—Watt McCain is at Lexington, N. C.,

in the textile industries.

‘01—B. W. McClintock is cashier at Char-
lotte National Bank. |

09—J. James, of Laurinburg, S. C., is in
the real estate business. |

}mediately condemn them; however, Christ

08—Dr. Oren Moore is a prominent surg-
eon of Charlotte, N. C.

* 09—H. A. Query is editor of the Gastonia
Gazette.

’21—J. R. Walker is now a student at the
Union Theological Seminary.

’99—S. A. Robinson is a prominent busi-
ness man of Gastonia, N. C.

’23—W. S. Shepherd, Jr., is in business in
Winston-Salem, N. C.

'22—S, W. Stacy is teaching at Hemp, |
N. C.

’24—A. D. Cromartie is now professor in|
the schools of Loray, N. C. |

’24—P. B. Price is schoolmaster in Sandy

Hollow Schools, N. C. |
’68—Capt. R. H. Morrison of the Officers’ |

Reserve Corps, has recently been promoted |
to the rank of major.
’81—Dr. H. Louis Smith, of Washington |
and Lee, returned to his home Thursday, |
and, while he is not expecting to take up|
‘active work for some time owing to his re- |
cent illness, he will resume his work after |
Christmas. |
’07—Dr. and Mrs. G. H. Croom are spend- |
ing some time at Black Mountain and came |
down for the Carolina game. While at Da- |
vidson he was the room-mate of one of the |
members of the present faculty. |
12—Rev. I. S. McElroy, Jr., a missionary |
to Marugame, Japan, while home on a fur- |
lough, has been engaged by the Kings Moun- |
tain Presbytery to visit its churches, speak- |
ing in the interest of foreign missions.
20—Rev. W. C. Neel is now located at
Charleston, W. Va.

'24—A. M. Hurd is a popular professor of
Spanish, History and Science in the Oak-
dale School, near Charlotte.

'24—J. P. Story is now teaching near Bes- |
semer City, N. C.

'23—W. S. Buchanan is also inspiring
young heads with his ability in language in-
struction in the high schools of Shelby, N. C.

'23—Joe Baldwin, of Clarkton, professor
in high schools and popular insurance agent
at Pembroke, is now convalescent following
an attack of chicken-pox.

NEW ADDRESSES

04—C. A. Cornelson is head of the De-
partment of English at State College of
Washington, at Pullman, Wash.

*18—T. M. Misenheimer is a Senior at the
Medical College of Charleston, S. C. |

|

"10—W. B. Thomas is district manager of

Aetna Life Insurance Company, with offices’

902 Chamber of Commerce Building, Pitts-
burgh, Penna.

16—Rev. W. G. Somerville has recently
moved from Hillsville to Steele’s Tavern,
Va,

'22—W. B. Dunlap holds a responsible po- |
sition with the National Union Bank of |
Rock Hill, S. C. He spent the week-end |
on the Hill. |

’20—Rev. J. L. Fowle is assistant pastor of |
Central Presbyterian Church, Delmar Boule- |
vard and Clara Ave., St. Louis, Mo. |

| Alumni Follow Price In

ling Sunday afternoon.

ed deep into the heart to see what the man

|
|
|
|

Ministerial Band Talks.
iT
——- \
Harry Price, president of the “Y,” spoke |
to the Ministerial Band at the regular meet- |
He used as his sub- |
jest, The Heart of the Christian Religion, |
which he said is in friendship. |
“We should look facts in the face,” he
said. “We look on Christ. as the Perfect
One when we should also look up to Him
as a man among men.

| “When we see men doing wrong, we im-

did not immediately condemn men; He look-

or woman really was, and He appreciated
the good He found there. Some man looked
into Dwight L. Moody's heart and saw the |
possiblities of a great Christian leader. We
now know Dwight L. Moody, but what of
the other man?

“We are often so wrapt up in ourselves
that we do not look for anything in others. .

| This is not Christianity.”

Several alumni, now students at Union
Seminary, were present and were asked ta
say a few words. Knight, McLaughlin and |
Summers each made a short talk, in which
they gave some very helpful suggestions to
the men in college now preparng for the
ministry.

DRAMATIC CLUB GIVES THREE
ONE-ACT PLAYS

(Continued from page 1)
Dramatic Club, is endeavoring to
more plays for production here, Later in
the year the club plans to present the best of
the plays in other towns of the state.

In latter years the Dramatic Club has been
adhering to the policy of enacting only the
original dramas of Davidson students, Pro-
fessor Erwin has contributed several himself |
which have met with marked success,

secure

The money taken in from the local pre- |
sentation of the plays will be used to pay |
expenses on the proposed trips. The man-
ager reports that so far the club has done |

jexceedingly well financially. This was espe-| peculiar, were quite audible.

cially true of the performance the other
evening,

By replenishing their funds by their Da-
vidson appearances the Dramatic Club  he-
lieves that it can judge the merits of its
plays by noting what reception they meet
with the student body and visitors.

The club not only enacts original plays,
using only local talent, but it also paints all
the scenery and arranges all the props nec-
essary to the various one-act plays. All of
the stage work jis done by students under
‘the supervision of Professor Erwin. Any
member of the student body is cligible to
membership in the Dramatic Club provided
he has sufficient talent at acting.

|
|

THE SHAW CONCERT
COMPANY
(Continued from page 1)
in that time with Redpath Chautauqua, Com-
munity Chautauqua, Ellison and White, and
the Piedmont Lyceum.

Mr. Shaw, son of the directress, is an ac-
complished player of the saxaphone and
clarionet, showing himself to be a master of
either of these intruments.

Mr. Ponder also plays a saxaphone, as well
as a violin, and rendered several solos. dur-
ing the eyening. Mr. Ponder and Mr. Shaw
have been associated with each other in Red- |
path and Community Chautauquas, and also |
with the Night Hawk Entertainers of Kan-|
sas City.

Mr. Shepard proved himself an excellent |
cornetist, winning the admiration of his au- |
dience by his execution of difficult and}

n

Davidson Students To |
Hear Salem Professor

Moravian Professor of Bible to Ad-|
dress Vespers Here Sunday
Afternoon

The Davidson students are fortunate in se-
curing the services of Bishop Rondthaler, of
Salem College, as speaker for the “Y” ves-
per service next Sunday evening. He is not
only a bishop and the pastor of the Moravian

|Church in Winston-Salem, but he is also
professor of Bible in Salem College. He
has served in the capacity of pastor and

teacher af the Bible for nearly 50 years,
The Bishop is a man of wide experience
both at home and in foreign fields. He has

|made many and long voyages to the Holy

Land and has spent much time in research
work there. On several of these trips the
Bishop has spent time with his native church
in Germany, from whence he came to Amer-
ica.

Bishop Rondthaler’s son has been presi-
dent of Salem College for three years and
is also a prominent man in the Moravian
Church. He was one of the Y. M,C. A.
speakers at Davidson last year.

Who Knows?

THAT, in November of the year 1804,
Messrs Barringer and H. L. Wilson broke
the cycle record to Charlotte, making the
run of twenty-two miles in eighty: min-
utes. These men were members of the

| "Davidson Wheelers,” the college eveling
‘club.

THAT, on the 6th of November in the

same year, two featherweight clevens,
known as the “Ugly Plugs” and the
“Plug Uglys.” met on the gridiron in

bloody contest with the score resulting
in the victory 4 to 0 of the “Plug Uglys.”

THAT the Davidson Monthly carries
the notice: “Davidson was entertained
the evening of the 1oth of last month,
by a phonograph. Mr. Trautman, the
Manager of the instrument, had in his
repertoire many of the latest popular
songs. The intonations, though a little
Messrs.
McGeachy and Johnson sang a duet at
the request of the audience which the in-
strument reproduced.”

THAT during the Nineties the Y. M.C.
A. building (now the Armory) had, |
among other facilities for diversion, a
large skating floor, which was often the
scene of skating meets and carnivals.
On Saturday the rink was held open for
the young ladies of the town and their |
escorts, {

THAT in 1801 there were only 75 sub-
scribers to the college publication The
Davidson Monthly.

|
|
=a |
THAT, the minutes of the Philan-|
thropic Society for a meeting called |
August the third, 1849, contained this!
note: “The object of this meeting, as |
explained, was to appoint a committee |
to wait on the Band at Commencement |
and also a committee to attend to the)
snuffing of candles on Wednesday even-|
ing of commencement.” |
ee |
THAT, in the early days of the college,
it was considered a disgrace for a “Phi"|
to associate with a “Eu” and vice-versa.

THAT, political questions were at that |
time favorite topics for discussion and}
that the majority of the students were |
inclined toward radical views.

The following are a few of the ten
rules laid down for the freshman Co-eds
at Auburn:

Freshmen shall not chew gum, hold}

|beautiful solos and obligattos. Before be-)| hands, or swing on the arms of young

09—Dr. Claude C. Kelly is a practicing | coming associated with the Piedmont Bu-| men in public. }
physician in Hartford, Conn., with offices |reau, Mr. Shepard had occupied the position} Freshmen shall give full support to all |

in the Professional building, suite 305. |
01—Ralph E. Helper is located in Man- |

of solo cornetist in Gilbert’s Band. |
Mr. Burryman, the fifth member of the |

pep meetings. r
Freshman shall not “Joy’ walk, lipstick |

gum, Okla. A letter was received during the |company, played the drums and traps and | or rouge conspiciously at any time. |

week praising highly the work of the Wild-
cats this season.

16—L. Glasgow Hicks jsinowm located ain |ceived and applauded by the audience. Mr.!| needles, thread, etc.

Wilmington, N.C. He has recently launched |
out into business for himself, taking insur- |
ance as his field. |

’20—W. T. Allen, Jr., is prominently con- |
nected with the Berry-Demoville Co., Nash- |
ville, Tenn. |

06—A. G. Bonnoitt owns and operates a|
men’s furnishing establishment in Darling-
ton, S. C.

*16—L. G. Edgerton is associated with R.| four numbers at the college during the cur-| two classes—one for those who are ad-

G. Edgerton & Company, in Roanoke, Va.|
Address, Box 939, Roanoke, Va. |

rendered several solos on the xylophone. His |
playing of both instruments was warmly re-

Burryman has also been with Gilbert's Band |
as xylophone soloist. |

The following were the principal numbers |
appearing on the program: Hungarian Fan-|
tasia, Caravan to Venice, Hungarian Rhap- |
sody, Valse Mingn, Charlie My Boy, Poet |
and Peasant Overture, and other selections |
of classical and popular music. ;

The Piedmont Lyceum, of Ashevilte, “has |

been engaged by the Junior Class to present |

rent year. [The Shaw Concert Company was
the second of this series.

tire. winter,

Freshmen shall not refuse to lend to|
upper-classmen powder, hair-pins, |

—The Plainsman. |
|

Those girls who are “akin” to ducks |
are delighted that the swimming pool has
been refilled: The pool is one of the
G. W. C. “drawing cards,” and it is hoped
that it will be filled throughout the en-
Many new. girls who can-
not swim are planning to be experts by
commencement. Miss Dupuy will have

vanced swimmers, and one for begin-
ners.—Spokesman:

R. O. T. C. News

The local military department is in corre-
spondence with officials of Fort Bragg, in an
endeavor to secure the air’ service of the
camp to make acrial photographs of David-
son College and the surrounding country.
From the photographs a mosaic would be
made, if the proposed plan can be carried
through. The mosaic will
supplement to this vicinity.

be a valuable

Warrant Officer Lacock, who has been di-
recting the Davidson College Band, will soon
leave for his home station at Fort Bragg.
The Wildeat Band, under his capable direc-
tion, has been making wonderful progress,
and the Military Department speaks very
highly of the splendid work Mr. Lacock has
done while on the Hill.

Regular Army officers who are stationed
in Charlotte have been invited to witness the
Wednesday drills at Davidson.

Considerable competition has developed
among the companies and platoons af the
battalion, to have the best line while passing
in review at the parade ceremonies on the
campus. The which makes the
best appearance is rewarded by being dis-
missed five minutes early,

company

Captain Weems feaves on Thanksgiving
Day for Annapolis, Md., to visit his brother,
Lieutenant-Commander P. VV. H. Weems.
Captain Weems expects to attend the Army-
Navy game which is to be played the fol-
lowing week at Baltimore,

GREENSBORO COLLEGE AND

CONVERSE GLEE CLUBS

(Continued from page 1)
singing and string instruments. The man-
dolin club, which will accompany the glee
club, consists af cight members, all recag-
nized as good performers, who will undoubt-
edly render a good program,

The Converse club is under the direction
of Miss Clora Baneroft, a musician who is
widely known for her ability to direct musi-
cal programs and. concerts.

Several short plays, written by the young
ladies of the college, will be given, varying
the program just enough to make it highly
entertaining, Among the songs that will be
included in the program are some that were

}composed, both words and music, by the

members of the club, which will be novel as
well as entertaining.

The program, from beginning to end, will
be full of good songs, solos, selections by the
quartet, plays, and a short program given by
the mandolin club, which will the
audience a delightful evening.

assure

Interest Continues In

Work of Sunday Schools

Students Carry Messages to Folk of
Surrounding Community
Each Week

The various reports from the ‘Sunday
Schools show increasing interest with one or
two exceptions where a new effort is being
made to establish them. At Shearer Chapel
last Sunday there were several new members
who have not been accustomed to coming.
These are starting in with a renewed inter-
est. A-greater interest is being taken at
Shearer Chapel as a result of a series of
revivals that were held there last week. The
students attended services there last
Sunday were L. B. Gibbs, Leighton Me-
Cutcheon, John Crinkley, Archie Ray, and
C. D. Patterson, After the Sunday School,
Irvin Knight, who graduated from Davidson
in the class of ‘22, preached an unusually
good sermon, Gibbs and Patterson remained
for Christian Endeavor that night and the
attendance there was larger than usual.
Gibbs has organized a class in Christian En-
deavor training and personal work for Chris-
tian Endeavor leaders. This class is taught
30 minutes before the regular Christian En-
deavor meeting.

The three men who went to Oak Grove
Sunday were Jeff Garrison, Raymond Me-
Carty and M, C. Lyerly. They reported
nothing of new interest that took place last
Sunday.

The attendance at the Sunday School at
the Mill was about 20 for last Sunday, Wat-

who

lace Purdy, Prof. F. L. Jackson, M. C.
Yeargan, and Forrest) Franklin attended
there. Franklin led the singing, Mr, Jack-

son taught the adult class, while Fred Phil-
lips taught the small boys’ class.

At the Convict Camp Dr. Harding lee-
tured for 45 minutes. this subject was Con-
quest for Happiness. The students who at-
tended were C, 1. Norwood, John Ricks, and
A, D. Viernes. The last named rendered a
cornet solo.

Police stopped the Freshman-Sopho-
more fight at the University of Roches-
ter, as the greenhorns were threatening
their opponents from the
earth. One freshman was unconscious
for half an hour, At Brown University
the Sophs waited till two o'clock in the
morning before attacking. Half the
Freshmen had gone to bed. The others
got a trimming, and then the weary ones
were singly routed out, ete—New Stu-
dent.

to remove

Comparative scores mean little, if any-
thing. Davidson tied State whera State
beat Trinity 14-0.

WARREN’S
of Philadelphia

TAILORS FOR COLLEGE MEN

GET YOUR TUXEDO FOR THANKSGIVING
DANCES

Special Top Coats $25.00 Made To Order Suits $35.00
SHOWING 103 WEST
Morday, November 24th

JACK CUNNINGHAM, Rep.
Formerly of Guilford’s

A $5.00 bill will purchase youa $250.00 personal
effects policy which protects you against fire and
theft on all of your wearing apparel, Tennis
Racquet, Golf Clubs and all other personal
property anywhere other than having it stored
in your own home.

Write or see

Independence Trust Company

Insurance Department :

McAlister. Carson, Manager

Charlotte, N. C..

Phone 3940

