4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 10, 1924

See ee eee

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

n Coll gi t

Association

hk, oh

Press

M

of S

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE.._--.---------Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN--.-.----- Business Manager

’ Editorial Staff

Cc. F, SMITI.....--.-.- .---Managing Editor
W. E. MILTON ant Managing Editor
C. F, MONK ant Managing Editor
J. M. SELSER Athletic Editor
A, SIM] Peanut Parcher Editor
J. A. LAK --Associate Editor
H. h .-Associate Editor
H. L. SHA\ Associate Editor
G. D, ROGERS ie SeussucauesseeeecAlUmfnin nator
Business Staff
Testy DHOMESONesccssucasetususenaubusa Circulation Manager
Tr. C. McEWAIN.. -Subscription Manager
[Te GIAICRI SO NGssescccsecsucssachscestecues Service Manager
W eo YINGHS ences Jewbuc cubdaLcsteeee lV DISt
REPORTERS’ CLUB

I. B, GIBBS, Pres. R. H. MeILWAINE
D. G. WILSON, G. McMILLAN
ALY, TE, 'Sec,-T J. E. MOORE

J. M. APPLEBY FE. P, O'CONNOR
Hi, 3 STIN RK. B. PARKER
W.-H. BRANCH B. Y. PITTS

W.T. COVINGTON B, U, RATCHEORD
J. M. GARRISON KE. K, REGEN

A, 1, HOLLINGSWORTH J. B. THOMPSON
P. FE. JONES 1. D. WHARTON
W. TL LYNCH W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL.

When thre’s fire on the Hill, there’s always
plenty of water to quench it,
D
April Fool’s Day passed without the usual
midnight revels, The students fool the profes-

sors enough every day without having a special
celebration.

D

If the Juniors don’t want Junior Week rain-
ed out they had better try a little April Fool
stuff and get the jump on Jupiter Pluvius by
announcing that Speaking will not start until
the 22nd, when it’s all over.

D
That won’t do any good, though, because

there are baseball games on the Hill on the
19th and 20th.

D:

The fraternities, acting as hosts to the upper-
classmen, made the past week-end a long-to-de-
remembered occasion. In sponsoring the
non-fraternity week-end, the Pan-Hellenic
Council has strengthened the feeling of unity
which exists between all Davidson men. Rain
deluged the campus and muddied both the twos
and threes of the visitors and the tens and
elevens of the students, but it failed to dampen
the holiday spirit of the occasion.

The Saturday night:reception at the gym-
nasium was a success from every standpoint.
The tables were loaded with good things from
the homes of. the hosts in all parts.of the South,
and Tennessee ham, North Carolina sand-
wiches, South Carolina chicken, Georgia pie,
and Virginia cake, all shared the same fate.
Everything about the party was fine except the
mud, and all agreed that it has never. been

- beaten.

D:

_ The work of the retiring staff is over, but it
is their work which will count in the manage-
ment of the Davidsonian during the coming
year. For a year the new staff has worked
under and with those who have finished their
work. They have learned the spirit which
makes the whole organization work for the bet-
terment of the publication, and through it,
for Davidson.

What measure of success the Davidsonian
may attain during the next term will be the
result of the untiring efforts and limitless pa-
tience of the men who have completed their
active work, but who have left an indelible im-
print on the minds of those who follow them.

D

Spanish is asserting its force more and
more, but German, like Banquo’s ghost, re-
* fuses to down. The Spanish Club of Queens
College is not permitted to come to David-
son,.to co-operate with the local Spanish
»-Giub-in the presentation of a Spanish pro-
gram on Spanish night because of a slight
epidemic of German measles.

JUNIOR WEEK

One more week remains before the Easter
holidays and Junior Week. The Class of
’25 has completed plans for the occasion and
ask the full co-operation of the entire stu-
dent body in making the week a success.

Last year the Junior Class set a standard
which is a hard one to maintain. Never were
there as many girls, or as many features for
their entertainment.

This year the holidays have been length-
ened to five days and plans have been laid

THE DECADE OF SERVICE

ITH this issue the eleventh staff of the |

W veciasonian enters upon its editorial
duties. For ten years the Ddvidsonian

has been the organ of the students,chronicling
their activities, expressing their opinions, and

| working for their best interests. A survey of

for the best Speaking ever. To all the stu- |

dents the Class of ’25 extends a cordial invi-
tation to remain and help make the holidays
the best ever.

SPORTSMANSHIP

The essence of true sportsmanship lies in |

fairness to the opposing teams. The Wild-
cat spirit has always stood for the highest
ideals of sportsmanship. Davidson has al-
ways believed in giving her opponents a
fair chance in all contests. The Davidson
spirit has come to be recognized as synony-
mous with sportsmanship whereever the
Davidson team plays.

Sometimes, however, it is hard to draw
the line between good and poor sportsman-
ship. There is a tendency to indulge in rag-
ging and personal rooting, which, though
commonly practiced at professional contests,
does not fit in with the best college sports-
manship. Such rooting detracts from the
efficiency of the opposing team and gives
the home team an unfair advantage which it

| does not want.

Cheering for the team is a necessary thing,
and we should yell our lungs out for Coach

men, should refrain from booing misplays of

the first ten years of its life reveals a steady
progress, coincident with the increase in enroll-
ment, and betterment of campus conditions.
During the past decade the enrollment of Da-
vidson has doubled, its equipment has been

| improved, and despite the disastrous fires which

destroyed the Chambers and Watts buildings, it
has steadily advanced. Two campaigns, the
million dollar campaign, and the six hundred
thousand drive for the rebuilding of Chambers,
have been” successfully completed. Watts has
been rebuilt, in addition to East and West dor-
mitories, which accommodate twice the number
of students that Chambers housed, and work
has been started on Chambers.

The Greater Davidson Club, organized on
April 16, 1919, has been one of the greatest fac-
tors in this advance. Co-operating with the
Club, the Davidsonian adopted the slogan: “For

| a Greater Davidson.” This motto was kept for

|

a year, after which, realizing that true greatness
lies in betterment, the slogan was changed to
read: “For a Better Davidson,’ which ex-

| presses in a phrase the purpose of the David-

sonian ever since it was founded.
The Davidsonian was founded by the class

| of 1915. On March 18, 1914, the student body
| voted to establish a paper, and elected Frank W.

Price as editor-in-chief. A free subscription
was offered to the man submitting the best

| name, and seven men submitted the present
| Younger and his men; but we, as sports- |

our guests, from hooting the players, or |

from doing anything to detract from the
efficiency of our opponents. The visitors
are on a disadvantage as it is, and this in-
equality should be reduced to a minimum.
During the coming week the Red and
Black nine meets Wake Forest, N. C. State
and Guilford in three games on the home

| diamond. The team has been in a-hitting

slump and will need the support of every
one of us to hit its stride in the home games.
Only one home game remains on _ the
schedule after this week and organized
cheering at these ganiés, with omission of
anything which will tend to put the visitors
at a disadvantage, will do much to keep
Davidson sportsmanship on the high level
which it has always occupied.

THE HOME STRETCH

Although the sport of kings has come in-
to disrepute in many circles, there still runs
in the veins of every man the love of the
race, whatever it may be. There can be
few greater thrills than to see a field of
thoroughbreds turn into the home stretch,
driving for the wire with every ounce of
energy that is in them, and to watch them
as Hisy flash over the line, fighting every
inet of the way, the victory in doubt to the
ast.

In the blue-blooded horse flesh of Ken-

|

name, W. H. Neal being the first. On April
Ist the first issue of the Davidsonian, a four-
page, four-column paper, was published. The
April Fool issue marked the beginning of the
paper.

Under the editorship of J. P. Williams, now

| secretary of the Davidson Y. M. C. A., and

under the third editor, P. B. Price, brother of
the first editor, the paper retained its original
size but was systematized more perfectly and
passed out of the experimental stage, becoming

/ an integral part of the college life.

R. H. Stone, the next editor, ‘increased the

| number of pages to six, the first enlargement of

| the paper.
| FE, A. Woods, who followed, the paper remained
| a six-page four-column paper.

During his editorship and that of

For the first
five years the Davidsonian remained much the
same in form, with a marked improvement in

| the type of article and the makeup each suc-

ceeding year.

D. W. Roberts was elected editor for 1919-
20, and it was during his regime that the paper
was enlarged to its present size. The first five-
column Davidsonian was the 1919 Commence-
ment issue. It contained ten pages and cuts
added greatly to the makeup. Roberts had to
leave school on account of his health, and S. H.
Askew was elected in his place. During the
years 1919-21 C. J. Matthews was business
manager, and the paper entered a period of

| great prosperity. Ten and twelve-page papers
| were run and an eight-page copy was the excep.

tucky there lives a spirit, handed down from |

generation to generation, a spirit which can-
not be broken; and the knights of the turf
who back these equine racers with their
cold cash know that when the barrier is
raised that spirit, the inbred love of victory,
will make the race a gruelling fight from
start to finish. There will be no loafing, and
horse and jockey both will fight for the wire
and the winner’s circle.

It is the same in human life. The folks
back home are. backing us in the race of
life. They placed their money on us, and
what is more, their time, energy, love, and
everything that they have. The race is on
and they are banking on us to put everything
we have into it, and to end up as winners
before the judge’s stand. But whether we
win or not, the main thing is to put every-
thing we have into the race. , :

The followers of the race track have the

assurance that their entry is hammering its |

way toward the goal,, putting everything
into each step. Are we fighting all the time
to deserve the backing we get from home?
We each have the ability to make good if
we try. The spirit of the thoroughbred is
in our veins, and it only remains for us to
bring it to the surface. The barrier is up
and we are on the course, some of us far
behind, but all of us possible and probable
winners.

The session of 1923-24 is almost over. A
little over a month remains till examina-
tions force themselves on our minds once
more. Some of us are behind in our work,
seemingly hopelessly so—but the race is
never over until the entries flash past the
wire.

We have passed the three quarter mark
and are turning into the final stretch. There
is still time enough left for those of us who
are lagging behind to: catch tp with tke
'eaders and enter the home stretch with a
chance against the favorites; there is still
a chance to finish in the money.

tion rather than the rule.

J. E. Cassell was editor during 1920-2! and
had a large part in the founding of the North
Carolina Collegiate Press Association. The
organization of the paper reached a high plane
of efficiency and carried more news than he-
fore.

J. M. Richards edited the paper duting 1921-
22 and a period of retrenchment was necessary
after the mushroom growth of the two previous
years. The previous business department had
left the Davidsonian a debt of eighteen hundred
dollars. The paper was cut down to six pages,
but the subject matter and makeup of the paper

| benefited by the work of the seven previous

years, and the Davidsonian, though smaller,
was an improved paper. The paper, through
unwise management, had grown beyond itselt,
and the staff was wise enough to sacrifice the
present for the future good of the publication.

The next year, with R. F. Davidson at the
helm, the paper resumed its eight-page form.
The paper was cleared of the eighteen hundred

| dollar debt which hung over it, by W. T. Coop-

| er, business manager, part of the amount being

cancelled, part paid through the college by an
unknown donor, and the remainder subscribed
b ythe student body out of the damage fee. The
paying off of this debt placed the Davidsonian
on its feet once more, and it ranked once more
among the leading weeklies of Southern col-
leges.

Liston D. Elkins, who edited the paper dur-
ing the past term, is the tenth editor. Under his
leadership the paper is better than ever before.
This has been accomplished both because of the
good business management, which has kept the
paper clear of overhanging debt, and because of
the efficiency which has been attained in gath-
ering news. Elkins, in addition to putting over
the best Davidsonian, has worked with editors
of other college papers in the capacity of presi-
dent of the N. C. C. P. A... The-Davidsonian
during the past year has become the livest col-
lege weekly in the South. It contains a larger
number of news articles each week than any

Chaff

THE GLOVE

: (Adapted from Browning et al)

Clara had never been able to decide between
George and John. George was rich and a
member of the four hundred, while John rode
around in a flivver, but then John’s kisses were
so sweet. Ofcourse George had told her that
he would die for her, and that he would give his
life rather than see one ‘of her bobbed tresses
injured. John’s love versus George’s Cadillac
and professed devotion. It was a hard ques-
tion to decide, and why should she worry when
she had both.

Clara was a member of the four hundred
herself, and that complicated matters and gave
George the advantage. Her friends knew noth-
ing of John, and she didn’t see any reason for
advertising him just at present. It was nice to
belong at the best clubs, and then sometimes
to attend the firemen’s ball incognito, or to lis-
ten to John enjoying his corned beef and cab-
bage. Although John liked corned beef and
cabbage, he didn’t look like Jiggs, and Clara
looked much more like Maggie’s daughter than
like Maggie. But Maggie’s daughter didn’t
wear bobbed hair.

George was different. She called him her
knight and he treated her with the greatest
chivalry which was an uncommon «procedure
even among the four hundred. While he car-
ried a flask to accommodate her, he never in-
dulged, and smoked exactly five cigarettes per
diem. But George had the redeeming features
of an Arrow collar ad, danced divinely, and was
a wo-o-nderful conversationalist. And so
things went on delightfully with both George

| and John getting a kick out of life (in George’s

case it was purely a figurative kick) until Clara
began to wonder if George really would be will-
ing to die for her. Then came her great
chance.

George owned a hacienda near the Mexican
border and invited a houseful of the right peo-
ple down for a month of hilarity during the
co-old winter months. Clara accepted the invi-
tation and hating to leave dear John for so long
a period, advised him to qualify as bootlegger
and hotfoot it down to the border in his well-
worn flivver. John was in search of more
lucrative employment and acquiesced to her
wishes. By the time Clara arrived, John was
the confidenital agent of each and every one of
the merrymakers. Clara acted circumspectly,
and George daily professed his undying devo-
tion and his readiness to die for her sake.

When an excursion was proposed to an arena
across the border, Clara felt that her chance had
come. The fateful morning arrived at last
and high-powered cars whisked the party across
the Rio.Grande into Mexico. The glamor of
the occasion struck Clara forcibly; she was in
the land of the Spanish athelete; she could see
the bull shot, knifed, and butchered. They
arrived on the scene of the fight, and procured
front row seats.

Deftly Clara turned the conversation to
knightly deeds while’ the maddened bovines
were loosed in the pit below. Most of the males
averred that the risking of life for a lady’s
favor was mere foolishness, but George stoutly
maintained that where Clara was concerned
nothing was foolishness. Clara tossed her
glove into the arena. Spurred on by the laugh-
ter which rose, George deftly cleared the rail
and dropped into the arena. He corralled the
glove, climbed back close in front of the bull’s
horns, and flung the glove in Clara’s face.

The guests showed their approval of George’s
act, so Clara calmly walked out. Before cross-
ing the river she left a note for John telling him
to call for her that night in his flivver. Then
she went back to the hacienda and waited.

That night John came for Clara, but it was
a Cadillac which carried them away, for he had
prospered in his bootlegging trade. When they
rolled into Los Angeles several days later, Clara
found a letter awaiting her. She tore it open
hurriedly for it was from the discarded Geonge.
It contained a bill for $10.00 for one glove
rescued. Gladly, she’ wrote him a check, for
now she had both John’s love and a eave}

Southern college weekly. Besides the depart-
ments, such as The Dope Fiend, The Reel Stuff,
Who Knows? The Peanut Parcher, Chaff, Da-
vidson Five Years Ago, Niches in the Wildcat
Hall of Fame, Alumni News, and Town News,
the Davidsonian runs between thirty and forty-
five news articles each week; this is a larger
number than is run by any other college weekly
in the South. With such a record of contin-
uous progress behind them, the members of the
eleventh: staff start their work. They have ten
years’ experience behind them to-aid.them in
their efforts. In starting on the second decade
of the Davidsonian, the new staff still has as its
slogan, “For a Better Davidson.”
