THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 17, 1924

The Reel Stuff.

“In Search of a Thrill” Gives Metro
Star Great Role as Paris
Butterfly

Viola Dana in her zippiest melo-dramatic
comedy, “In Search of a Thrill,” a Metro
production, is the treat in store at the gym
Monday night, April 21st

Adapted from Kate Jordan’s short story,
“The Spirit of the Road,” and directed by
Oscar Apfel, “In Search of a Thrill” prom-
ises to top in popularity all Miss Dana’s pre-
vious productions, for it is a rare combina-
tion of comedy and thrills, done with the
charming verve and dash that is character-
istice of the Peter Pan girl of the screen,
Warner Baxter, Mabel Van Buren, Temp-
Jar Saxe and Rosemary Theby head the sup-
porting cast.

Miss Dana has the role of an American
flapper in Paris, whose passion for contin-
uous excitement leads her into breath-taking
adventures, Fans will get all the action they
want in “In Search of a Thrill,” for the story
speeds from one adventure to another, cul-
minating in a dramatic episode at a rendez-
vous of the Paris underworld.

Ann Clemance, played by Viola Dana, oc-
cupies a villa near Paris with her aunt. In
the French metropolis she meets Adrien Tor-
rens (Warner Baxter), a young American
author, to whom she was formerly engaged.
They are attracted to each other again, but
Adrian, a serious-minded chap, has no pa-
tience with Ann’s reckless frivolities.

Feeling that she has lost: his respect, and
knowing his interest in the poorer unfortun-
ate classes, Ann disguises herself as a crook
and breaks into his apartment, hoping to win
his sympathy. Instead of freeing her, Ad-
rian compels her to accompany him on a tour
of the slum district, where she realizes for
the first time the horrible conditions brought
about by the indifferent attitude of a few of
the wealthy aristocracy.

In a Montmartre dive Ann is recognized
through her disguise by a leading gangster,
who was a witness of one of her earlier es-
capades, This thug plots with his Apache
cohorts to kidnap the girl and hold her for
ransom,

What follows is one of the most thrilling
battles royal ever screened—that will make

“In Search of a Thrill” a photoplay long to
be remembered.

Members of Next Year’s
Control Board Chosen

Patton, Regen and Miller Selected
on Directing Board of Y. M. C. A.
During Year

The Y. M. C. A. elections held during
last week” resulted in the election of Jim
Patton from the rising Senior class to affili-
ate with “Mac” Beall and “Bob” Oeland,
his class mates, who are already members of
the Court of Control. From the rising Ju-
nior class were chosen W. E. Miller and E,
K. Regen. These two men will hold office
for two years.

The personnel of the board includes Dr.
H. B. Arbuckle, Prof. F. K. Fleagle, and
Mr. F. L. Jackson as faculty members who
sit with the board as honorary members and
advisers. Each ofthem holds office three
years. Mr. Jackson will probably be re-
turned, as the board, in placing his name be-
fore the student body, has requested his re-
election.

This body has the responsibility of em-
ploying the general secretary and controlling
the funds of the “Y.” They meet once a
month on the first Monday night in each
month.

Richard Little john has been appointed to
direct the moving pictures next year, filling
the place now held by Watt McCain. His
assistants are H. C. Lawson and Nesbit Sul-
livan.

Bub Oeland has made an exceptionally
good showing as treasurer of the board. His
colleagues were Mason Field, Lee McLean,
Angus McBryde and Mac Beall. The work
of the “Y” is in good hands for another
year.

Out in the great progressive west,
several universities are installing courses
in yelling with carefully mapped out
courses. Only Sophomores are eligible
for registration which is a deft compli-
ment to this particular college breed.
Some of the courses are labelled as fol-
lows: Bleacher Phychology, Bleacher
Singing,.Correct Use of the Voice, What
a Coach Expects of the Cheerleaders.—
Tar:Heel.

wae

DAVIDSON COLLEGE GLEE CLUB

Which will put on a performance Friday night in collaboration with the
Dramatic Club

Seniors Make Plans

Annual Georgia Club
Banquet Held Monday

Georgia Crackers Celebrate With
Big Blowout Last Wednes-
nesday Night

Last Monday night 24 members of the
Georgia Club met for a banquet at Thomp-
son’s boarding house. Chester F, Monk act-
ed as toastmaster,

After the banquet Piggy Martin, Kenneth
McAlpine, Linton Deck, Hayden Hollings-
worth and others made short after-dinner
speeches. Ernest Milton told of the activi-
ties of the Georgia men at Davidson during
the past year,-and the aims for next year.
Some of the highest offices in the college
have been held by Georgia men during this
year. » These included president of the Stu-
dent Body, president of the Y. M. C. A.,
president of the Glee and Dramatic Clubs,
editor-in-chief of the Davidsonian, editor-
in-chief of the Magazine, secretary of the
Athletic Association, and three members of
the Y. M. C. A. cabinet. Bill Heston, a man
from Georgia, was elected editor-in-chief of
Quips and Cranks, but on account of ill
health was forced to resign. Three mem-
bers of the club found places on the honor
roll last semester, and one has especially
distinguished himself in wrestling, Cromartie
having reached the final tryouts in the elimi-
nations for the American Olympic Wrestling
team. Other Georgians have proven good
athletes.

In the absence of President Elkins, the
toastmaster presided over the business of the
meeting. In the election of officers for
next year Kenneth McAlpine was chosen
president, Flake Laird, vice-president, and
Sam Doss, secretary-treasurer.

Mike (in bed, to alarm clock)—“I fool-
ed yez that time. I was not asleep at
all."—Davenport Weekly Record.

CALENDAR

Wednesday, April 10
7:30 p. m.—Movies, Harold Lloyd
in Why Worry.
Thursday, April 17
8:00 p. m.—Junior Oratorical Con-
test.
Friday, April 18
3:30 p. m.—Baseball,
Shelby High.
8:00 p. m—Formal Night. Dra-
matic and Glee Club performances.
Saturday, April 19
10 a. m.—Interclass Track Meet.
3:30 p. m.—Baseball, D. C. Fresh
vs. Charlotte High.
8:00 p. m—Roman Circus.
Sunday, April 20
11 a. m—Church (Special music).
1:15 p. m—C. E. Training Class.
2:00 p. m.—Ministerial Band.
6:00 p. m—Y. M. C. A. Vesper
Service.
Monday, April 21
7:30 p. m.—Movies, Viola Dana in
In Search of a Thrill,
Tuesday, April 22
7:30 p. m.—Pan. and Metro. Liter-
ary Societies.
Wednesday, April 23
9:30 p. m.—Bible Classes.

Fresh vs.

oe.
An

for Celebration

of Class Day During Commencement

W. M. Cox is Valedictorian, P. J.
Story, Salutatorian and W. Z.
Bradford, Respondent

GATEWAY CLASS GIFT

R. R. Jones, President of Class, Will
Present Gift at Commencement

The Senior class is planning big things for
the celebration of Class Day. At a recent
meeting of the class the following elections
were made: W. M. Cox, Valedictorian;
Paul Story, Salutatorian; D. B. Walthall,
Orator; and W. Z. Bradford, Respondent at
the Alumni Banquet. Also D. J. Chipman
was recently elected Alumni Secretary.

It has been the custom for several years
for the Senior class to give the college a
gift. The class of '24 has in mind a beauti-
ful approach and gateway, which will lead
to the campus from the Davidson College
Highway. Mr. Hibbs, of Nashville, the
architect for New Chambers, is now working
on plans for the same. It will harmonize
with our Chambers, as well as the roads and
walks, which the college is anticipating.

R. R. Jones, the class president, was
chosen to formally present the class gift.

The Seniors are working hard for com-
mencement, and they are spreading the report
that Davidson may expect the biggest exer-
cises she has ever witnessed.

Senior—“Freshman, where | is

Fresh cap?”

your

Freshman—“I have it in my hand, do
you want it?”—Yellow Jacket Weekly.

Davidson Professors and Students
Speak: Before Sharon Chautauqua

Piggy Martin’s Quartet Furnishes
Music for Occasion — Doctors
Martin, Shewmake and Fleagle
and Warren Cox Deliver
Speeches

The annual chautauqua of Sharon town-
ship was concluded last Saturday night after
a week which, despite the bad weather, was
pronounced very worth-while both in point
of view of program presented and in attend-
ance.

On Saturday, Dr. W. J. Martin, Dr. E. F.
Shewmake, Prof. Fred Fleagle and W. M.
Cox addressed the chautauqua. The David-
son Ministerial Band Quartet sang several
selections, and later led in the congregational
singing.

Dr. Shewmake spoke on the inspiration of
culture and character, showing their relation
to Christian education, “Culture,” he said,
“has been defined as civilization; refinement
of manners, dress, etc., smattering of refine-
ment, inefficiency. But the definition he pre-
ferred was that culture is a study of perfec-
tion, a harmonious expansion.”

Professor Fleagle showed the transition of
schools from emphasizing religious teachings
to the modern tendency to leave such instruc-
tion out of school life. The abandonment of
the family altar was deplored, the speaker
saying that a strong nation cannot exist
without strong communities, which rest upon
strong Christian homes. “Christian educa-
tion has been largely turned over to the
homes,” he said. ‘

W. M. Cox, who is to become a mission
teacher in a Chinese college, contrasted the
Christian influences of the state institution
and the denominational college, are saying
the chief aim of the former is to impart
knowledge and that of the latter is to de-
velop presonality. ‘The differences of the
types of schools,” he said, “is their ideals,
purpose, teaching force and atmosphere of
Christian influence.”

MINISTERIAL BAND ELECTS
MOFFETT NEW PRESIDENT

Instead of the usual program, the Minis-
terial Band, at its regular meeting last Sun-
day afternoon, elected officers to serve the
remainder of this term and the first part of
the fall term. The men elected were: A. N.
Moffett, president; A. H. Hollingsworth,
vice-president; G, P. Gladney, secretary; and
P. B. Freeland, treasurer. The installation
of these officers will be held at the regular
meeting of the Band on April 27th.

During the devotional part of the meeting
preceding the election of officers, two mem-
bers of the Band made short talks. J. L.
McLean, the retiring president, gave an in-
structive talk on Rational Faith, and A. N.
Moffett spoke on Being True to Your Call-
ing.

Next Sunday morning the Ministerial and
Volunteer Band together with the Christian
Endeavor Training Class, will conduct an
Easter Sunrise Service. This meeting will
take the place of the regular afternoon meet-
ing.

Chewing Gum Aids Digestion

By C. Houston Goudiss
National Authority on Natrition
Publisher of The Forecast—America’s Leading Food Magazine

ates

enjoy them?

contents. If one

known as the Achras Sapota.

But many a hea
during the process o
ing the process of digestion

Then it is that chewing gum comes to the rescue.

Dr. W. A. Evans, former commissioner of health in
Chicago, says in his book, “How to Keep Well”:

“To chew: gum after a meal aids digestion. Most
people do not chew their food long enough to mix
saliva with it thoroughly. The chewing of gum adds
some saliva to the stomach contents.
service in stimulatin
cially serviceable in

Everyone knows we are given to eating more than we
actually need, but when the table is heaped with good
food, “what's a feller to. do?”

are so tempting, and so palatable! Why not

yy meal which is hugely sioyed
esting is far from enjoyable dur-

It is of more
the stomach muscle. It is espe-
elping the stomach to empty its

has overeaten and the stomach is
heavy something is gained by chewing gum for half an
hour, beginning two hours after eating.” And it also
helps to keep the teeth clean.
Chicle, the base of chewing
which is secreted by the inner

im, is the milky juice
ark of a tropical tree

Only during the rainy season are the trees “bled.”

After Pesne
flavoring an
popular.

refined and sterilized, the chicle is mixed with sugar and
moulded into the familiar form which has become so

“What a whale of a difference
just a few cents make!

¢

%
°

2

>

“

—all the difference
between just an ordinary cigarette
and—FATIMA, the most skillful
blend in cigarette history.

