-
’ WRIT MA tFIEMe mare aa

RWerAragnrm a «ane

THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 3, 1925

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press

Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill” |

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH...--.---.--.--- Editor-in-Chief |
RKE Busi M

HAROLD D. BU.

EDITORIAL STAFF

W. H. BRANCH. Managing Editor
L. D. WHARTON._.-.-:_.-2-.... Assistant Managing Editor
P. F. JONES....-.......-.-...--.-Assistant Managing Editor
W. E. MILTON. Athletic Editor
R. B. PARKER Associate Editor
Aye RROWI EB Secae ae Ce eres -Associate Editor ©
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH z iate Editor
GARNETT McMILLAN..............---- Humorous Editor
J. B. WEBB. .---Alumni Editor
F. K. BELL..- ..--Exchange Editor

|

-Business Manager

H, D, BURKE.
W. H. LYNCH

V.S. BROYLES... tant Business Manager
H. Y. ALEXANDER -Circulation Manager
E. D. WITHERSPOON --Supscription Manager
Bi sDOUGIASS iia. co sees eco etecee, Assistant
l AK .-Service Department |
SessasgueacenceeeAN asi Atane

Reporters’ Club

G. M. EDDINGTON, Pres. }. F. HOLLINGSWORTH
V. S. BROYLES, Vice-Pres. . MARTIN

C.C. MURCHISON, Sec.-Tr. R. H. McILWAINE
W. H. ALLISON . P. McKNIGH
H. M. AUSTIN . E. MOORE

F. K. BELL ). K. REGEN

Cc. L, BRAGAW H. L. SHELBY

D. M. CALHOUN J. B. THOMPSON
W. T. COVINGTON }. B. WEBB

W. T. DAVIS . G. WHARTON
E, L. DOUGLASS B. WILSON

F, T, FRANKLIN C. WITHERS

W. S. GORDON W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

TOBACCO vs. WOMANHOOD

The recent action of Bryn Mawr College
has caused not a little flurry among the
women’s institutions of learning throughout
the country. Bryn Mawr has set aside cer-
tain rooms in each dormitory for the use of
those girls who crave to smoke.

‘This action constitutes nothing more or
less than official approbation of student
smoking, The various colleges of the South
for the edification of womanhood have held
up their hands in holy horror at the pre-
posterous idea. A questionnaire sent out to
all the women’s colleges below the Mason
and Dixon's line shows that not one of them
places the stamp of approval on cigarette
smoking. Some of the answers were quite
vehement in their denunciation of smoking
among girls,

Our sister colleges of Queens, N. C. C. W.,
Converse, Greensboro College, and others
have long had rigid rules forbidding the
wooing of Lady Nicotine by the girls. The
head of Peace Institute in Raleigh expresses
herself thus:

“T disapprove very heartily of girls smok-
ing and our girls are not allowed to smoke.
I think, however, it is a question of manners,
not morals. I believe that it is detrimental
to health, but I do not feel that it is a sin
for a girl to smoke any more than a boy.”

We feel much the same way. The smok-
ing among girls has not become convention-
alized in this country as yet, and we hope
that it will never be. We are glad that our
southern colleges have taken such a decided
stand aganist it.

Arthur Brisbane says, “the girl who does
not smoke will make a better mother than
the one who uses cigarettes.” Perhaps, the
actual physical damage arising from a use
of tobacco is not so bad as it has been paint-
ed. Yet, any fellow wil say that a girl sinks
a little in his estimation whenever he sees
her smoking. Somehow, he feels that it is
not becoming to a woman, and that she
oversteps her bounds when she does.

It is quite true that the status of woman
has changed much in the past twenty-five
years. A new freedom has been granted
her; the war and the enfranchisement of
women voters have both brought about this
change. Nor has it been denied men.

But when a man seeks to marry a woman,
he does not look around for a flapper suck-
ing a cigarette which is held in one hand,
and idly painting her face with the other
hand. The old-fashioned girl may be the
butt of many a joke but she is first-hand
favorite when the wedding bells sound out

_on a perfect June day.
: D.

Our short story for this week: A nut at
the wheel, a peach by his side, a pair on the
back seat, an orange moon, a sharp turn in
the road; fruit salad. Goodnight!

eoas spon eouoeEe Assistant Business Manager '

WHAT, OR HOW, TO THINK

Various and divers accusations have been
brought against the college student here of
late. He has been accused of being an ig-
norant nincompoop, an ignoramus, a scof-
flaw, or anything else that the fancy of the
accuser might seek to bring against him.
Some of these charges have been true and
some of them have been so utterly false
and absurd that it is useless to waste good
typewriter ribbons in answering them.

One iminent member of the so-called in-
telligentsia, or the upper stratum of higher
thought, has made a change that the college
student of today has devoted so much of
his waking hours to pursuit of extra-
curriculum activities, to the glamour of fra-
ternity life and to the call of the omnipotent
sports, that he has absolutely lost sight of
the primary reasons for his parents ever
bustling him off to the college.

This writer says that the average college
student (whatever one might look like),
cannot name three books of the Bible in
their right order, cannot write a simple
problem in algebra) nor can be distinguish
between a Murillo and a Rembrandt canvas.
He goes on to say that the average student
does not appreciate the higher branches of

learning enough to seek information on
them outside of class-room study. These

are only a few of the charges.

Well, to begin with, the average student
as we have him, is nothing more than a boy
entering the portals of manhood, who has
been placed in college by the powers that be
or by his own pluck and initiative. He is
neither so much better nor so much worse
than the “average” fellow one sees in the
fields, in the workshop, or in the halls of
Congress. He is the normal, and sane spe-
cimen of humanity, striving to go his way
content without the loud horn-blowing of a
bunch of long-haired refermers, some of
them who have never been closer toa college
than to pass by an institution which caters
to the intellectual wants of those tonsorial
artists who learn to shear our hirsute adorn-
ment by divers and sundry money-getting
methods.

Despite of the loud and bizarre dress that

- the collegian effects, despite his sometimes

air of self-importance, he is nothing more or
less than one of the crowd. But by some
thinkers and writers, he is held up on a
pedestal to be admired, scorned and pitied.
Presumably he is the paragon of virtue, or
again, the inconoclastic agent who delights
in breaking the traditions of morality and
respect. ‘

An article written by Glenn Frank, popu-
lar educator, appearing in The New Frater-
nity, attracted our attention, because the
author takes the viewpoint that teaching
one how to think is more important than
teaching one what to think. We heartily
agree with him. As longasa man is givena
copybook and a pencil, with instruction copy
what others have done, and to think as oth-
ers have thought, his powers of initiative
and his perception are going to be squashed,
and hard at that. Proper leadership of a
man’s thoughts, rather than pushing them
along marked-out pathways will do more for
that individual than any amount of cut and
dried advice and instruction. Once his curi-
osity and desire are aroused for learning, he
will dig it out himself.

Mr, Frank’s words are as follows. They
are worthy of anyone’s consideration and
thought :

“Democracy may be stabbed to death in
its universities.

“Everything depends upon the kind of uni-

versities a democracy develops. Universi-
ties that teach their students what to think
are a danger to democrcy. Universities that
teach their students how to think and then
trust them to decide what to think from
year to year in a growing world are democ-
racy’s one indispensable safeguard.
_ “The university is not a retail store deal-
ing in facts; the university is a temporary
retreat from the world where young men
and women may breathe the air of freedom
and achieve emancipation from the obsolete
dogmas, the unworthy loyalties, the irra-
tional inhibitions, the tribal conformities,
and the cowardly precautions that crush and
kill the uneducated mind.

“May I repeat that if the university at-
tempts to safeguard popular thought by
teaching the students what to think instead
of how to think, the university becomes the
yetrayer instead of the saviour of democ-
racy. Trying to run a university with a set
of changeless doctrines instead of with
:ourageous and creative minds is like send-
ing a child into fife equipped with book mix-
‘ms instead of character,”

Bordeaux and his playmates who bought
the citron, thinking it was a genuine Geor-
gia watermelon, have had the laugh all the
week, A gold brick agent has been after
them all the week.

THE HANGCHOW FUND

Two years ago, the students of Davidson
College pledged themselves to support the
work done by the Hangchow Christian Col-
lege itt Hangchow, China, by paying part of
the expenses of a Davidson man who would
volunteer for service over there.

Warren Cox, of the class of ’24, has been
over there for more than a year and has
been doing great work among the natives of
that section of China. The Hangchow
Christian College has been instrumental in
training the youth of a heathen land for
service for Christ.

It is the custom for the Y. M. C. A. of the
college to put on a drive every fall to raise
enough money to pay our pledge of a thou-
sand dollars a year to this school. This
drive will start next week with Buck Shaw
in charge, and it is up to every individual
student to do his part in bringing the cam-
paign to a successful close. Every man is
expected to contribute as much as two dol-
lars to this worthy cause. Be ready to con-
tribute this much when the committee comes
around to your room.

Open Forum

“DIM MORNING”

No doubt the above story which appeared
in the Thanksgiving issue of the Davidson
College Magazine has already had more
talk and time wasted on it than many such
are worth—nevertheless, it is only properly
that we should weigh it with a view to
writing more of this nature if it is the true
Davidson or Christian college type of story,
or, if on the other hand it is not, we should
center all the forces we have against the
future recurrence of such writings.

Is the spirit of this story typical of the
average young man or woman—much less
the students at Davidson College where all
except eight men claim to be Christians?
Surely we cannot believe such is the present
state of affairs in general! Even supposing
this were a true accusation against society,
would stories such as this remedy condi-
tions? Did this story condemn or meekly
submit to and even excuse such conditions
as set forth? It decidedly excused them and
encouraged them—examine the latter part
of the story to substantiate this statement.

Will not questions such as these decide
the rightness of an article: Is it something
to which I would willingly and gladly sign
my name? Will it lift the thoughts and
ideals of those who read it? Is it the kind
of article T would send my mother to read?
Tf all literature were such as mine would
the world be better or worse?

Recently there has been much discussion
and agitation for “freedom of the college
press.” Tlow far toward this goal do you
think “Dim Morning” advanced us? Are
we not compelled to admit a retreat rather
than an advance?

Someone has said, “show me what a man’s
tastes are and I will show what he is.” Let
us be thankful that the true Davidson man
does not possess low desires or a diseased

appetite !
HARLLEE BORDEAUX.

The minor sports are laying right in there
these days. Boxing and wrestling are the
two lusty twins that are calling for play-
mates, Track and basketball claim about as
many. The intra-mural sports are getting
into readiness, and all in all, we should have
a rare winter of it.

D

Georgia Tech got out a heck of a good
issue of the Technique last week in honor
of the .Tech-Auburn game. Looked like a
regular New York Times, Congratulations.

Minor Chords

TO
Not again can they call me a fool.
That sad day shut its doors, sank tonight
When a man in his pride called me tool;
All because my affections were light.

T have seen, I have seen thee, dear one,
Who to me must alway be the queen,
Your smiles, gentle smiles, they have won
All the heat of affections so keen.

Ts it just that but one should behold

All the charms, dainty charms, of a maid
Who with wit has the wisdom of old?
May the gods, doubting one, give thee aid.

Let the fast, worried pastg fall asleep.
Do thou tend thee the lamps, sacred lamps,
Lest again thou shouldst be brought to weep
For a love which has passed in life’s tramp.

B. F,

| intellect in general.

With the following examination one may test
his observation, knowledge of current events, and
A grade of below forty per
cent is considered poor. It is suggested that
room-mates grade one another, after taking the
test in separate rooms.

Each statement in the following set has the
words true or false after it. Underline the word
that applies to preceding statement. It is best to
use a number three peneil with a good eraser:

1. Charleston is a small village in South Caro-

lina.

True—False.
2. Jack Dempsey is a movie-star.
True—False.
3. Onions are used as a breath-sweetener after
smoking.
True—False.
4. Girls are beautiful.
True—False.
5. Sing-Sing is a university where boarding
house managers take graduate work in singing.
True—False.
6. Davidson’ boys do not attend musical com-
edies in Charlotte.
True—False.
>. The laundry does perfect work on white
trousers,
True—False.
8. Your neighbor's clarinet practice is a joy
and inspiration for study.
True—False.

The next group is a completion test. After con-

| centration fill in the blank spaces with the correct

word:
1. Campus football has ---- men on a side.
2. A college student has ---- dates per month.
3. The Davidsonian is the ---- paper in the
' south,
4. Bedroom slippers last for a ---- time.

dance orchestra is the

ea
} 1s too

5. The most important instrument in a modern
6. A Ford automobile is composed of ---- parts.

>. The price of admission to a Davidson movie

8. Kid Lyerly need a large bottle of good ----
tonic.
9. Stamps at the Davidson postoffice sell for

jpeeeencentss

; :
10. It is ---- manners to kiss your room-mates

| girls.

The Tennessee Club had its monthly meeting
last Saturday night after the movie. For refresh-
ments they served cocoanuts and peanuts.

“That’s a horse on me,” said the blacksmith as

| the old gray mare stepped on his foot.

‘ carat
“Please pass the sandpaper,” said Peewee, ‘I'm

feeling rough.”

’TENSHUN!

Attention, you law studs; here is your chance
to win fame. The Keyhole is ever anxious to
foster, advance, and encourage higher learning in
all branches of education such as art, law, psy-
chology, bridge, necking, and bumming. There-
fore it is sponsoring this contest, and offering a
substantial present for the first correct solution.
Write on one side of the paper with pen and ink.
All students, faculty and janitors are eligible to
compete. Answers must be in by Christmas eve.
Place them in an unsealed envelope and hand
them to Charlie down at the gym.

Here is the case:

A, a man twenty-two years old, and his friend,
B, twenty-three years old, have a fight as to who
will pay forthe drinks. C, a traffic cop from Cal-
ifornia, separates them; D and E were witnesses
to the fight. A goes off making vile threats con-
cerning the life of B. Next night A, with a re-
volver in one pocket, a stick of dynamite in the
oter, and a knife between his teeth enters the
drug store looking for B, who has gone to the
next town to visit his brother-in-law. F, the clerk
orders A out of the store. A, feeling mistreated
throws a lighted match into the cigar case which
begins to burn. The fumes of mixed cigars kill
G, H, I, J, K, and L, who work in a cotton-mill in
Gastonia. M and N, first cousins of A saw the
crime. They say nothing about it, and hire O, a
taxi driver who doesn’t believe in’ Santa Claus to
drive them to their hotel.. Is B guilty of any
crime; if so, what? Give reasons for answer.

“Slick” Booth, the radio hound, says that
Paul Revere was the first radio fan. He
broadcasted all night on one plug.
