Don't forget Prof. T 1) V
Carl Wachter’s : H EF
Kipling Recital A
Tuesday Night
FOR A BETTER DAVI
Vol. XIII = —————

DSON

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 3,

1925

Attend this recital

by Kipling’s fore-

most interpreter,

and help the Wild-
cat Fund

No. 12

Phi Beta Kappa Initiates
Thirteen New Candidates
In Shearer Friday Night

Four Students and Nine Alumni Will
Be Received—Doctor Mack to
Speak

The Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, |
the leading scholastic fraternity of the coun-
try, will have its public and secret initiations
tomorrow night beginning at 7:00 o'clock. |
At this time nine prominent alumni of Da-
vidson and four Seniors will be taken in
this honorary society.

Dr. C. R. Harding, who is head of the!
local chapter, has aranged an attractivepro- |
gram for the public exercises to be held in
Shearer Hall at 8:00 o'clock. Dr. Harding
will preside and Dr, Edward Mack, profes- |
sor at the Union Theological Seminary, at |
Richmond, Va., is to deliver the address of |
the evening. The speaker will be introduced |
to the audience by Dr. W. R. Grey, profes- |
sor of Latin here at Davidson. Dr. Mack
has been heard by Davidson students on sey- |
eral occasions, and will be remembered as an |
interesting speaker and an orator of some |

note, |

The program that has been decided upon
includes the secret ceremonies in the faculty
room of Chambers building at 7:00, the pub-
lic exercises mentioned above in Shearet Hall
and a banquet given by the local members in
honor of the initiates and others who have
been taken by Phi Beta Kappa in previous
years. Dr. John L. Douglas has been select-
ed as toastmaster and has announced sey-
eral prominent men as speakers of the oc-
casion. Included in the number who will
deliver after-dinner talks are: Dr. Alex-
ander Sprunt, ’75, pastor of the First Pres-
byterian Church of Charleston,\ S. (C),)} 1DSu,
A. M. Fraser, '76, of the First Church of
Staunton, Va.; Dr. R. F. Kirkpatrick, '97,
pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of
Anderson, S. C.; and A. H. Hollingsworth,
a member of the Senior class of Davidson.

Phi Beta Kappa is the oldest fraternity in
the country, being founded at William and
Mary College, in the latter part of the
eighteenth century. In the beginning it was
purely a social organization, later being
changed to an honorary fraternity, member-

(Continued on page 2)

Five Colleges Send Men!
To National Fraternity

Meeting on Local Campus

Wildcat Eleven Flashes Greatest Form
as Duke is Defeated 26-0 in Final Game

Gamma Sigma Epsilon Chapter
Here Host to Fraternity Last
Week—Exposition Planned

Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national honorary
chemical
vention

fraternity, held its biennial con-
in the hall) of the chapter
Thursday and Friday, November 26th and
27th. Delegates from five of the six chap-
ters were present, the chapter at Johns-Hop-
kins being the only One not represented,

local

Matters of routine business occupied the |
attention of the convention most of the time.
It was brought out that one new chapter—
at the University of Alabama—had been in-
stalled since the last convention.

Definite steps toward expansion of the fra-
ternity were planned, and it is hoped that
several new chapters will soon be added.
There are now six chapters located at Johns-
Hopkins University, University of Florida,
University of Alabama, N. C. State College,
, Auburn, and Davidson.

The first session on Thursday evening was
‘devoted to organization of the convention,
lappoifitment of committees, certification of

2 cael | delegates, and election of convention officers.
Dr, H. B. Arbuckle was elected chairman of
DICK GREY the convention and J. M. Appleby recorder,

The officers’ reports were then given and
considered by the convention.

The delegates were W. H. Bradley, of N.
C. State; E. L. Jones, of the University of
Alabama; E. F. Williams, of Auburn, and
J. M. Appleby, of Davidson. Besides these
the convention was composed of two grand

Davidson Halfback

Seniors to Place
Stone Benches On
Davidson Campus

By deciding on their class gift before the
half-way mark of the first semester, the
Senior class has set a precedent that is no
doubt the best plan. Stone benches, care-
fully designed and handsomely engraved,
were the final decision of the Seniors.

Thies, both of Davidson.
Reports from the various chapters showed
a remarkable interest being in the
work of Gamma Sigma Epsilon in the vari-)
ous institutions.’
(Continued on page 7)

Aavthicr Good Football
Year Under Coach Monk

Closes Great Season as Eight Men
Played Final Game on

taken

These benches are to be designed by a
well-known architect and are to be placed at
various spots of advantage about the
campus. The seats are to be engraved with
the class numeral, '26, and are being made
of the best stone obtainable. One of the

(Continued on page 7)

Thanksgiving

Dramatic Club Present Three One-

Act Plays Before

Audience Will Have Opportunity of |
Seeing One of Doctor Erwin’s |
Own Plays

|
|
|
|

The Davidson College Dramatic Club has |
announced through its president, C. Frederick |
Smith, the presentation of three one-act |
plays to be given before the Christmas holi- |
days. The tryouts for parts have. been com- |
pleted and rehearsal has begun under the |
direction of Prof. E. J. Erwin, who as the|
director of the club has supervised the stag- |
ing of its members’ plays for several sea-|
sons past.

|
The first of the three plays is the work of |
Professor Erwin, entitled “A Little Bit of |
Bleeding,” is a drama. of Revolutionary days, |
with its setting in the mountains of North|
Carolina. The second of the triade is a,
comedy by Fred Smith,- “Tailor-made,” |
which depicts a reconciliation between two!
lovers, effected through the kindly assistance |
of an old tailor. Another of the small town |
characters is a Confederate veteran that in-
jects no little humor into the play. The third
of the group is a fantastic study of a’ scien-
tist and his conflict with the superstitions of
an idol worshipping race and of his ultimate
triumph. It is called, “The Conqueror of
the Gods.”

The exact date of the presentation of these
plays has not been definitely decided. How-
(Continued on page 2)

| pastor of churches at Lynchburg, Va., Alex-

As the final shades of twilight crept over
the green turf of Richardson Filed, and de-
voted students carried scrappy of
Wildcats off the field of conquest and honor,
Father Time dropped the final curtain on,
eight doughty Davidson heroes and the 1925
football season. The season was brought to
a close most fittingly with this last victory
over Duke, which in itself was a concrete
summary of the Wildcats’ successful season.

Rising to the heights of glory and success
early in the season with a tie with Wake
Forest, who were fresh from a victory over
Carolina, the Wildcats continued in their
winning stride through the scason, losing
only once or twice in minor games to medi-
ocre playing. Although the real height of
success, a victory over Carolina, was not
reached, the Davidson team showed wonder-

oer ful coaching and excellent teamwork
The text chosen by Dr. Sevier was the throughout the season.

first five verses of the fourth chapter of
Exodus. 4

a band

Christmas Holidays

Fassifern Leader __
Speaks at Vespers

Dr. J. R» Sevier made a very interesting
and impressive address at the “Y” vesper
service Sunday night. Dr. Sevier is presi-
dent of the Fassifern School for Girls, lo-
cated at Hendersonville, and also operates
Camp Greystone for Girls. He has been
andria, Va., and Augusta, Ga., serving in the
latter church for 14 years.

In the first game, the team from Elon
: : : . was overwhelmed by a 34 to 0 score. In
Dr. Sevier said that there is a question ¢pj, game the coaches were able to try out
“What all their scrubs and find their real worth.
is that in thine hand?” just as God asked On the following Saturday, Wofford’s strong
Moses the same question, when He referred team was defeated by the same score as the
to the rod which Moses was holding in his preceding year, 7 to 0.
hand. He said that sometimes it is necessary! Wake Forest came to Charlotte the fol-
for God to make it uncomfortable for us, | lowing Saturday dopted to beat the Wildcats |

which God puts before every man:

also, hefore ve rove where He wantsus( anywhere from three to 21 points. In the | Soing great so far this year. Crayton de-|

to move. first six plays they had pushed over a touch-

FELLOWS!

The last drive for funds to support
Warren Cox, at Hangchow College,
is to be put on the nights of December
8 9. The students subscribed
over a thousand dollars a year for the

have

past two college sessions and it is our
duty, as loyal Davidson men, to do the
same or even better this year. [am
calling on you, in the name of the Y,
M. C, A,, We
want and need the support of every
man at ‘Davidson,

to contribute heartily.

‘

Those serving on the central com-
mittee for the raising of these funds
A. M. Hillhouse, A. Hl. Hol-
lingsworth, Jr., Willard Keerans, and
Kk. D. Witherspoon,

are?

Davidson men, give these fellows
your hearty support!

H. lL. SHAW, JI

Chairman Mission Fund.

ey)

Hangchow Fund to
Start in Student
Body Next Week

The drive for the Hangchow fund will be
held on the 8th and 9th of December. The
money which is raised during this drive goes
for the support of Warren Cox, who grad-

who is now Professor of Chemistry in Hang-
chow Christian College.

H. L. Shaw is in charge of this work on
the Y. M. C, A,
mittee to work with him are Hayden Hol-
lingsworth, Willard Keerans, I. D, Wither-
and A. M. Hillhouse. Willard
Keerans is treasurer of the fund this year
in place of Jos. M. Garrison, who has had
that job for the past two years.

Once drive put for
money for the support of Warren, and for
the two years which have passed since he
left they have raised’ the money’ in’ full
These mén who have the work on their hands
for this year urge that all of the Davidson
men keep this in mind and pave their minds
made up to help as much as they can when
the time comes,

Hangchow Christian College 15

(Continued on page 6)

Glee Club Renders

Initial Showing

cabinet, and on the com-

spoon,

each year a is on

chartered

The Davidson College Glee Club made its
first appearance of the season when they
made their annual trip to Mooresville, Friday
night, November 27.

The club has been working very hard un-
der the leadership of Woodrow Wilson and
Mrs. Coral H.
Baker, of Chariotte, this year, and consider: |
ing that the Mooresville performance was the
first one, things went off very nicely. The
program was excellently arranged and con-
sisted of several choruses, two numbers by
the Symphony Odchestra, two appearances |
of the Jazz Orchestra, a solo by Caligan, |
and two appearances of the Davidson Quar- |

the excellent tutelage of

tet. |

The Jazz Orchestra, under B, T. Crayton, |
is an excellent organization and has been

serves much credit for whipping this band|

Hendrix and Dick Grey Run Wild as
Davidson Ends Season in Blaze
of Glory :

WELLS SCORES FIRST

Captain Black -Leads One Great
March Down Field for Touch-
down—Grigg Plays Well

Six men of the class of '26, playing their
last game for the Davidson Wildeats, ended
their football careers in a blaze of gridiron
glory by helping to defeat Duke University,
26 to 0, on Thanksgiving. The thin red line
of Davidson, composed of seven serapping .
players, playing on its own home field, com-
pletely repulsed the onslaughts of the Blue
Devils when those hefty Methodists threat-
ened to score, and by flashy and scintillating
teamwork, scored four touchdowns against a
heavier foe, thus placing Davidson in a tie
lwith Wake Forest for second State honors.
| The 3,000 spectators, sitting under a chill

> and gray November sky, rose to their feet

many times during the progress of that ait-
ernoon as one brilliant and sensational play
after another was unravelled by the Wild-
cats. The meteoric flashing and running ot
Jim Hendrix, the easy and evasive sidestep-
ping of Dick Grey, the steady plunging of
Captain Black, Fred Griggs’ linework for
the Blue Devils—all this brought cheers and
shouts of approbation from the supporters
and Duke alike. For it was a. stiffly-con-
tested affray throughout. Not once did the

officers, Dr. H. B, Arbuckle and Prof, O. J. uated from Davidson in the class of '24, and; men from Durham let down in their effort to

top the ever-increasing score of the Wildcats.
Davidson touchdowns in
the first three quarters, adding an extra one
in the second quarter when Dick Grey twist-
ed and squirmed through the whole Duke
(Continued on page 8)

scored cach of

Commencement Days to

be Called “June Week”

Seniors Make Wise Change as
Greater Social Occasion is

Planned

June Week will be the official name for
the four days, May thes30th and 31st, and
June the Ist and 2nd, during which com-
mencement will be held this year, according
to a vote taken in a Senior class meeting
on Monday morning, November the 30th.
The class of '26 has passed a resolution to
make theic. commencement bigger and better
in every way than those which have pre-
ceded and have already begun by changing
the name, appointing committees and mak-
ing plans.

In many of the universities commencement
is the most popular season of the year, when
great numbers of alumni flock back to their
alma mater and when the students have their
most important social events. Recently Da-
vidson has lacked this zest and enthusiasm,
which did exist in former years, and the
Senior class is going to make an effort to
bring it back and in so doing to start a
precedent. The social side will be empha-
sized. Plans has already been made but will
not be definitely announced until later.

The added attractios of June Week will
incur added expense which the class expects
to mect with the receipts from special en-
tertainments to be given in the spring.
Among these entertainments will ve
cluded one or more Glee Clubs from women’s
colleges in the vicinity.

in-

The June Week committee is as follows:

He spoke of how Moses spent 40 years in | down, and the game seemed to be theirs. But|of musicians into such excellent shape at | D. G. Wilson, chairman; R. W. Graves, J.
the “University of Hard Knocks” before he |the Wildcat team made one of the most re- | such an early date. There are several more W. Anderson, T, S. Baker, H. L. Shaw, C.
was prepared to do the work which God|markable comebacks of the year, made a|men in the orchestra this year than were! F, Monk, A. S. Robinson, M. M. Teague,
called him to do. He then continued to| touchdown on pure football, tied the score,| members last year, and of course the vol-| G. F. Laird, E. A. O'Neal, C. E. Houston
illustrate how some of the. world’s most in-| and outplayed the Baptists the rest of the | ume is increased by these additions as well} and the president of the class, R. B. Parker,
fluential men were being prepared in their] game. The next week the reserves and|as new pieces. The Jazz Orchestra war |[Tamber ex-officio. D. G. Wilson has had
(Continued on page 7) | (Continued on page 7) (Continued on page 6) | (Continued on page 3)

