THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 23, 1925

Church Leaders Express
Pleasure Over Removal
of Columbia Seminary

Dr. Gillespie Tells Opinions of |
Church Leaders Over Removal | |
of Seminary

Asset for Atlanta

Dr. Richard P. Gillespie, recent visitor and
speaker at Davidson, when interviewed rela-
tive to the removal of Columbia Theological
Seminary from Columbia to Atlanta, gave
- out the following opinions of various church
leaders and prominent educators. Numerous
Davidson students interested in the Seminary
will find many items of peculiar interest in
these views.

“It has been decided to move Columbia
Theological Seminary to Atlanta if Atlanta
will make an adequate response.

Columbia
Theological Seminary has a whole history,
extending over nearly a century, and is a
great spiritual force. It can be made one of
the greatest theological seminaries in this
country. Spiritually, intellectually and finan-
cially Columbia Theological Seminary will
be a fine asset for Atlanta, It is seldom that
such an opportunity comes to a city.”—Dr,
Walter L. Lingle. president, The Assembly
Training School.

“T admired its faculty and was proud of its
past achievements.’"—Dr. J. | McCain,
president, Agnes. Scott College.

R.

“Columbia Seminary is a renowned, his-
toric school with a record of one hundred
years of unsurpassed service. To build such
an institution into Atlanta's life will enhance
its glory and power in manifold ways.”—
Rey. Thornton Whaling, D.D., Moderator of
the General Assembly.

“T need not tell you with how much inter-
est [ have read the accounts of the marvelous
future of that scems to await
Columbia Seminary in such a Southern cen-
ter as Atlanta.”—Dr. Henry Louis Smith,
president, Washington & Lee University.

“Located at Atlanta, Columbia Seminary
will occupy a strategic position with refer-
ence to the very heart and center of the ter-
ritory served by the Southern. Presbyterian
Church."—Dr. W. M. McPheeters, Colum-
bia Theological Seminary.

usefulness

“Atlanta is more than the capital of Geor-
gia. It is the natural and logical capital of
the Southeast. It is rapidly becoming the
cultural capital of this entire section, The
bringing of Columbia Seminary to Atlanta
will place that institution in the best possible
position to serve this section of our nation,
It will strengthen the spiritual and religious
life of our entire community and the terri-
tory of which it is soon to be the cultural
and spiritual as well as the commercial capi-
tal."—Rey. Ben. R. Lacy, D.D., pastor Cen-
tral Presbyterian Church, Atlanta.

“I am deeply concerned to see the Colum-
bia Theological Seminary moved to Atlanta,
not only because of what its coming will
mean to this city, and this great southeastern
section, but because of what its location
here will mean to the future of the Seminary
and its service to the Kingdom of God. I
believe the move is providential and the place
strategic. I am convinced its location in At-
lanta will prove the means of recruiting a/
large number of splendid men for the min-
istry."—Rev. Richard Orme Flinn, D.D., |
pastor North Avenue Presbyterian Church.

“This institution, enriched by so many.
great yesterdays, planted in the fertile soil
of the Atlanta spirit and surrounded by a
section as good as the best that Dixie has to!
offer, will enter upon a service for the public |
good compared with which the success of the |
past will be but fractional.”"—Rey. A. E. |
Driggers, pastor Inman Park Presbyterian |
Church, Atlanta. |

“I consider Columbia Seminary the power |
house of Presbyterianism in the South.’—|
Rey. J. R. Williams, pastor East Point Pres-
byterian Church, Atlanta.

“The graduates of Columbia Seminary will
gain much from a great Presbyterian center
like Atlanta. They will have an, experience
in the various church work here that will
add to scholastic equipment the power of
vision, enthusiasm, and assurance in work.
The fruits of such practical training will be:
evident whether in the sity or the country
pastorate.”—Rev. John W. Good, Ph.D.,
professor of English in Agnes Scott Col-
lege.

“I believe we need a centrally located
seminary to train efficient ministers and
missionaries, because the way is now open
to help God answer the prayers we have been
praying: “Thrust forth fabourers into the
harvest.”—Rev. Geo. W.| Sheffer, pastor
Moore Memorial Presbyterian Church, At-
lanta—Adv.

Dr. Richard T. Gillespie, president of the
Seminary, spoke four times at Davidson last
Sunday. He announced that he would be

|

| the Seminary.

|
i]

glad to correspond with any one concerning

Spanish Club to Enact
Interesting Bull Fight

|
|

Queens and Davidson Will Delirteate
Spanish Customs of Both
Continents

The evening of May the Ist the students
of Spanish in Queens College and Davidson
College will stage in Shearer Hall the second
annual “Spanish Night.” The program 1s
planned to depict the characteristic customs
of Spain and Spanish-America and includes
features in the ongs, dances, and “fiestas” of
the Latin people.

The outstanding number’ to be presented
by the members of the Davidson Spanish
Club is a “true and natural representation
of the Spanish bullfight.” Few details have
been divulged by Prof. F, L. Blythe, who is
in charge of the “Corrida de Toros,” but
from what has leaked out a magnificent spec-
tacle can be expected. This act gives prom-
ise of uproarious edification for all those in-
terested in the ancient sport.

Two farces, adapted from the 16th cen-
tury originals by Dr. F, K. Fleagle, are to
form another part of the program, acted in
by students in the Spanish department of

Davidson College. The students will also

,form a chorus to sing the old songs of Spain

and the new songs of America done ‘into
Spanish, literally “jazz” Latinized. The
College Concert Orchestra will give several
numbers,

The part to be taken on the program by
the girls’ from Queens has not been an--
nounced. However, the star position of the
evening is held open for them and no doubt
they will offer something unusual to fill it.

VESPER AUDIENCE HEARS

(Continued from page 1)
school teacher. He and a friend had gone
to a neighboring church in Kentucky. Dur-
ing the service his friend was called upon to
offer prayer. Later, a man came to him,
saying that he had been away listening to a
man, whom they anticipated getting as a
pastor, but he had heard of this man’s prayer,
and if he was the man he thought he was,
he wanted him. He had gone
school to his mother, She had several chil-
dren, and he didn’t know how much she was
paid for teaching, but it was not much, and
he knew that she earned every penny which
she received, for ‘she poured herself into her
efforts. She gave all she had to her pupils,
not mercly to earn a living for her children, |
but to make her pupils good Christian. citi-
zens. Now several of her pupils had gone
out into life, and had made successes, only to
look back upon that woman as the one to
whom the honor was due. She also had
been willing to lose her life. But not merely
to lose it; she had lost it for the sake of
others, for the sake of Christ, and the Gos-
pel.”

J. M. Appleby led the meting. Mr. Wil-
liams introduced the speaker as the new
president of Columbia Seminary, and who
is doing so much for the institution, which
is to make its home in Atlanta within the
next few years. N. G. Patterson, EK. K.
Regen, and R. W. Oeland led in prayer. W.
W. Purdy was at the piano.

to sce to

STUDENTS SOLICIT FUNDS

(Continued from page 1)
operation that» exists between the two in-
stitutions.

Milhous and McIlwaine were nominated
as chairman of the drive at Davidson and
Milhous was elected. Monday night a meet-
ing was held in Shearer all for the appoint-
ment of the various captains and officers of
the drive. After careful consideration it was |
decided to put the drive for the Hangchow |
fund on at the same time. Julian Briggs was |
elected chairman of the Hangchow drive,
Jim Milhous chairman of the Queens drive,
and Ernest Milton secretary of the drive.

For the captains in the various dormitories, |
the following men were appointed: Buck |
Shaw, Rumple; Bill Christian, Watts; Kelso!
Regen, Georgia; Jim Hendrix, West; John!
Laws, East, and Hayden Hollingsworth, |
Barracks.

There will be a meeting at the New Char-
lotte Hotel, Friday night, for the purpose of
deciding results of the drive that was put on
Wednesday night.

COMMENCEMENT PROGRAM |

(Continued from page 1)
committee to put on this part of the program.
The graduation exercises at 10:30 Wednes-
day will be the final event. At this time the
college medals will be awarded and the class
flag lowered.~

‘the Mecklenburg

Charlotte Pageant Will
Depict Historic Events

of Mecklenburg County

President Coolidge Invited to Attend.
Big Celebration in Queen City

Special Military Day
The Charlotte Chamber of Commerce and_
Pageant Association are
busy making plans for what is generally be-
lieved to be the biggest event of its kind
ever held in Charlotte, the celebration of the |
150th anniversary of the signing the
Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence.
The celebration, which will take place at the
natural amphitheater of Independence Park,
in Charlotte, will last for five days, begin-
ning May 18,

A delegation of Tar Heels headed by Rev.
Luther Little, pastor of the First Baptist
Church of Charlotte, and Col. T. L. Kirk-
patrick, president of the Chamber of Com-
merece, recently made a trip to Washington
for the purpose of extending to President
Coolidge a formal invitation to attend the
pageant. The President seemed pleased with
their speeches and highly commended their
efforts and their aims of making this cele-
bration the most spectacular and worth-while
one ever held. He was unable, however, to
make any definite reply to them, but he
promised to consider the proposition thor-
oughly, and to make an effort to attend.

One day of the five will be set aside as
Military Day, the feature of which will be a
military parade. A battalion of artillery
from Fort Bragg has been engaged for the

of

event, and in case the President comes, the

famous ninety-piece military
Washington will be present.

band = from
Other smaller
bands from other places are also expected.
No speeches are to be made on this day but
the entire time will be given to the review of
military tacties.

The largest crowd ever attending a similar
event in Charlotte is expected to witness this

historical celebration, People representing
various sections of the United States and

Canada will be present. Major General Al-
len, who was commander of the 90th division
of the A. EF. F., in France, who was com-
mander-in-chief of the American troops in
Germany, and who has won practically every
honor offered for military skill and genius,
will be the honored guest of Military Day.

An invitation was extended to Davidson to
take part in the celebration, but on account
of the final exams which are to be held at the
same date, it had to be declined.

Wildcats Lose to
Jacket Golf Team

In a fairly close and well played: niatch
the golf team from Georgia Tech defeated
the Wildeat linkmen 13-3 at the Charlotte
Country Club last Saturday.

Spalding and Reaves were the individual
stars of the match, both shooting a 75 par
for 18 holes in one of the afternoon
somes,

four
Their, morning twosome resulted in
‘a victory for Spalding five up.

Whitaker, of the Techmen, played a very
consistent game to defeat Milhous, of the
locals, in the morning twosome. Whitaker
won the first nine holes 2 up, but” Milhous
came back strong and tied for the second
nine holes of the eighteen.
Sid Jones had a rather interesting match

3rannon and

| $f a mid-summer day. There was a fairly
‘large gallery on hand to witness the fray.
which was very interesting from the spec-
tatos’ standpoint.

Literary Societies

EUMANEAN SOCIETY

After the meting had been opened by
President Purdy and the roll had been call-
ed, the usual program was omitted and elec-
tion of officers for the coming term was
held. For president, Allison, Barr, Bowie,
and Smith, were nominated. Barr was clect-

ed, McCutchen, Williams, Gladney, and
Christian, were named for vice-president,
and McCutchen elected. For seeretary,

Duke, Lingle, Daniel, and Davidson, were
nominated, the result being Duke's election.
Bowie and Smith were named for reviewer,
and Bowie was elected. Lynch was elected
treasurer over Allison and Howard,

In was decided by the society to meet on
next Tuesday to hear the Fresh-Soph debate,
the Eumenean team competing with the
Philanthropic team,

PHILANTHROPIC SOCIETY

The first regular meeting of the Philan-
thropie society, after the holidays, was held
at the usual hour on Thursday night, April
16.) The subject for devate was, Resolved,
That the Isle of Pines Treaty should be rati-
fied, Alter a very interesting and well pre-
pared presentation of both sides the judges

announced their decision in’ favor of the
! negative. Those on the debate were Gordon
and Morris, negative; Houck and) Dixon,

affirmative.

The next thing on the program was an ex-
temporancous debate on the subject, Kesole-
ed, That the Poole Bill should be ratified by
the State Legislative, Alexander, arguing
the negative side, won out over Baker, of the
affirmative. “The committee
, composed of Barrington, Calhoun and Currie.
|

decision Wis

Wofford Nine Wins

In Close Contest

Last Thursday the Davidson nine failed to
their mareh
suffering a defeat by Wofford College, the
score being 14 to 5. The game was played
on the home field, and the season being well
under way. it was hoped that the Wildeat
club would tighten up. The game was. lost

break continued of losses by

mainly on account of bad hitting and errors
hy the home team.

Coach Monk the off
Wells pitching. The game was a close one
until the fifth inning; at that time the score
was five to five, Wells was taken out then
and Oden put in, Oden pitehed three in-
nings, during which time he had
seven more meu to eross the plate.

started game with

allowed
He was
replaced successively by Sappenfield and
Kugler, who pitehed the Jast two innings,
allowing their opponents two more runs.
Thackston, for the Wofford team, pitched
an excellent game, fanning almost half the
men who him. In the whole
Wofford team played well, making no er-
rors, while the Davidson team made four,
Four home runs were nailed out during
the course of the game, Pettigrew getting
two and Laird and Roberts getting one piece.
Davidson was outplayed and the Wildcats
were forced to bow to the Wofford nine.

faced fact,

The line-up was as follows:

after the first nine holes which Brannon won WOFFORD ABR H PO AE
A ‘ DXi) seseeeeunceoses 4 22:2:0 0
8 up. Jones tied for the second nine holes. i Behe
hts yy) , BGtUupTeWr Cl caecesseces hier par aee/4o UAW)
Trotter, fighting gamely, lost his match to \.) 7! 4
neon F WGITG unin coos ees cc coke at al) (0) f)
Bip Farnsworth six up and five to play. aa
F RovontseCi; cussuccaeec ls 0708 6 oo O
There were two low ball foursome played | mf
; Pi eal DEL Ol yee) I) ree ee es () Lal
by the golfers in the afternoon. One of i oy
: ORviiiass) 22s elec Ryiaber hecho 5 dt)
these was won by Tech and the other by the
pat F -|McDow, c --- 6 0 110 2 0
| local boys. The first low ball foursome was | ~
4 FT Yaus RE tCwantl fe sees eee see Geli Zeal 72230
played by Spalding and Whitaker, of the) * 7."
‘ z WiHITiSHeGbi esse ose a7 00S 10
Techmen, and Reeves and Milhous, for Da- Thackst eee
vidson. This match resulted in a victory pACKstOny Dice ‘ |
for the locals in which they shot a low ball TA aa
score of 68 which is four strokes below par Totals -----~-=-----=0- 45:14 19-27 14 0
for the course. | DAVIDSON ABR HPOA E.
The scores for this foursome follow: | Glenn, Ce ie a on bgAw 2g
Name Out In Total) |/Davis} lf; 22222 22 2oe oo oe 200000
Spalding ~-------- 39 36 75 | Covington, 3b ----------- VOB A
| Whitaker eeee lee 44 40 84) Woodham, 1b - ao ft OO 9 I Bi
Reeves): 2522252222 36 39 75 Alford, S., cf-ss -------- 4°20) >1 2250-0
| Milhous ~-------- 42 40 82)sVancer ri ssss oo ces 001 0 0)
The other foursome of the afternoon was | Laird, If-cf il 4 il
played by Farnsworth and Brannon, of Tech, | Simpson, 2b 0042 1
and Trotter and Jones, of Davidson. This; Wrenn, c --------------- (NA ch) ty
match resulted in a victory for the Georgians | Wells, p ---------------- 0002 0;
| by a substantial lead which they held at the | Oden, p ---------------- 000 1 O}
finish. ! Sappenfield, p.-- 0001 0,
Afthough the focal golfers aggregation was Kugler, p : 000 2 0:
whipped rather badly they fought hard and | *McCofinell ------------- 100000
, pushed the Georgia Tech boys for every ad-} —--—--— |
vantage they took during all the matches,| Totals ---------------- 31 5 82715 4)
at the same time gaining good experience.| Score by innings: R}
Old Sol was smiling down in all his glory Wioftord 2222s see 300 203 |
Saturday and the weather was almost that; Davidson ~-------------__- 000 210 020— 5

| reality in Colorado.

eA Store and

more=--an
Institution !

Bon
«Marche

Charlotte, N.C.

DR. D. C. LILLY TO TALK TO
“Y” ON NEXT SUNDAY

Speaker from Winston-Salem to
Make Talk on Science and
Religion

The Y. M,C. A. service for next Sunday
will be under the direction of Dr. D. Clay
Lilly, pastor of the Reynolda Presbyterian
Church of Winston-Salem,

Dr. Lilly is quite a distinguished scholar
and preacher, has organized and is carrying
on the Conference of Christian Theologians
and Scientists. He is one of the leading men
who have done a great deal in the bringing
together of the factors in science and. reli-
gion.

In the recent conference held at Winston-
Salem there was quite a bit of interest. in
the questions up for discussion
among the foremost authorities on religion,

brought

and the Davidson delegation was very much
impressed with these and have renewed their
efforts to get Dr. Lilly to visit the local
Was Ge AG

There has been quite a bit of talk about
science and religion on the campus this year
and at dast a man has been acquired who is
well versed in this line. With the drive for
attendance gt the “Y" there should be
large number of students at this meeting.

a

FREIGHT RATE REDUCTION
(Continued from page 1)
on the Virginia rate plus basis, that is, rates
on freight from Chicago, for example, are
made by taking the distance haul rate to
Richmond plus the local haul from Virginia
to Carolfiia points,

“Basic points are a result of the competi-
tion between water transportation and the
“We
have no water competition, hence our rates
are hoisted to us from Virginia, on the Vir-
ginia city plus basis. Such
economically and de-
basing. What are we going to do about it?”
I-x-Governor Morrison urged his hearers

support the port terminal question, or
some better plan, if the port terminal idea
could be proved illogical, in order that actual
competition might be brought to bear on
the railroads, and the freight rates within
the state lowered to their normal level.

He urged artificial stimulation the
proposed until they could be
plaeed on a sound economic basis in the mat-
ter of earnings, such stimulation
In closing his able dis-
cussion of this plan, his plea for state patriot-
ism was renewed. “We are going to set up
water competition for the glory and develop-
ment of the state,” said Governor Morrison,
“T do not say that the port terminal bill is
the only solution, but I do say study the
question and adopt either the port terminal
idea or something better that may be sub-
stituted. The plan is not the big thing, the
question is give the railroads competition and
force our freight rates to normal.”

railroads,” said) Governor Morrison,

a system. is

unsound, absolutely

to

waterways

in’ case
would be necessary.

Colorado University will soon enter into
another branch of sports if present plans
materialize. Construction of a million dollar
lake, four miles east of Boulden, by the Pub-
lic Service Company of Boulden, will pro-

_ vide an ideal place for rowing, and if oppor-
| tunity can be obtained, and the expenses are

not prohibitive, this sport will become a
The lake is two miles
long and a mile wide—Columbia Spectator.

Co-eds at Marquette University have so
greatly increased the patronage of the Union
House barber shop there that an extra barber
was added to the shingling force. To relieve
the monotony of bobbing so many heads of
hair the barber has resorted to keeping count
of the number of red heads that he shears.—
P. C. Blue Stocking.

“Spec” McConnell made a_ sensational
sprint at Columbia last Saturday, to tie for
first place.
