8 . THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 29, 1925

‘ P l ° | “The offi , Fifth Regi-
Bishop Gribbens Speaks Automobile Races  SCABBARD AND BADER MEN cers of B: Company, Fifth Reg

ment chapter are: L. B. Huie, Captain;

_at Sunday Night Vespers Feature Armistice aes 1B, U, Rateltord) Firat Sexgeant ahdlGae-

, GIVES VALUABLE ADVICE)
ON EXCUSES IN ADDRESS TO
| STUDENTS

Rev. R. C. Gribben, of Winston-Salem
|was the speaker at the “Y” vesper serv-
jices Sunday evening. Rey. Mr. Gribben
‘is an alumnus of Citadel and the College
!of Charleston, Later he took post-grad-
| uate work at Columbia University, Har-
!vard and University of California. Be- |
cause of his thorough knowledge of col-
|lege life Rev. Mr. Gibben was able to
|give us a message peculiarly adapted to
jour life her at Davidson.

Rev. Mr. Gribben spoke on “Excuses,
The six reasons he attributed to the mak-
ing of excuses were: the habit of pro- |
‘crastination; the lack of development of
will, in which he described character as
the momentum we gain from past
choices; the lack of desire; the failure
to have consideration for thers; the
judging of what we do by the examples
of other people; and the putting of
blame upon someone else. Here Rev.
Mr. Gribben cited the prodigal son as an |
example we might well follow in this
respect. Upon his return to his father
the prodigal son did not blame anyone |
jelse for his failure, but acknowledged
|his guilt and acceded his willingness to
|pay the penalty. At ‘this ‘point the |
| speaker appealed to us to take the utmost
|advantage of the great opportunity of-
| fered us in a college education.

The second phase discussed by Rev.
|Mr. Gribben was the value of excuses. |
|He asked us to weigh excuses and their

ERNEST BOHANNON | value as if upon a balance and see the
Davidson, Right End |result. Through this explicit illustration
B ; : jthe speaker showed the absence of any

ohannon is one of the products of the : .

Davidson high school, and has shown worth whatever in making excuses. He

good stuff this year. also asked the question “how much have
excuses helped you in your college
career?” andadded that we should do all
our work when it should be done and as
it ought to be done.

Rev. Mr. Gribben ended his address in
j|an appeal for higher religious life and
jactivity. He asked that above all things
| we do not excuse ourselves from reading
the Bible and daily devotional exercises.

Cigarette-field Hodgin had-a warm date
over in Gastonia about a week ago. The
young lady, in the course of her con-
versation with him, said: “And were you
ever on a date where you had to pick
the hairpins out of yuor necktie when
you left?”

ENGLISH
BROADCLOTH
SHIRTS
$1.75

Made in white only, with or
without collar. Splendidly
tailored, durable material—-

everything you’d expect in a

/ much _ higher-priced shirt.
; Yy We will promptly fill all
; / mail orders.

Sizes 13 1-2 to 18

MELLON’S

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

QUALITY SERVICE

-The Premiere Cleaner and Presser

OUR WORK GUARANTEED TO PLEASE

CITY PRESSING CLUB
Davidson, N. C.

ALL KINDS OF CLOTHING AND ACCESSORIES

Sold out of stock. No waiting. Carry it
you as you go

In Coll e Display Room every Frida
00 A. M. to 4:90 P. M.

Harrison Clothing Co.
. Appleby & Milton, Mgrs.

M At the review held last Wednesday af- | retary; D. G. Wilson, Second Lieutenant;
WINSTON - SALEM PASTOR Day in Charlotte

ternoon the following men received bids | and George Smith, First Lieutenant.

to the Scabbard and Blade, B. Company,

Who does not feel a thrill as he sees | Fifth Regiment: B. T. Crawford, L. L.

several automobiles tearing down a Deck, C. E. Houston, and J. E. Moore.

street at breakneck speed? | These men were elected to membership

Lovers of automobile racing are to by reason of their excellent standing in

have an opportunity to watch some of military affairs both in classrooms and
the world’s fastest drivers in action at practical work.

the Charlotte Speedway on November 11. ‘The Scabbard and Blade is a national

For the past few months, preparations organization having chapters in all the
have been steadily made, for the man- leading military schools and colleges
agement has promised the sporting pub- | where there is a R. O. T. C. unit. Its
lic a race that will linger long in their’ purpose is to encourage general excel-

memories. lence

in the military standing of all

So far, eighteen drivers have entered; schools having this unit. Only commis-

drivers whose names are familiar to | sioned cadet officers who have shown by |

every fan, and men who are makers of | their

oval history. Milton, Hartz, Hill, De- | in the Regiment are eligible for member-
Paolo are some of them who have signed | ship in the organization.

on the dotted line. .Manager Barringer
made a stateemnt that Ralph Hepburn
has also entered. He is regarded by many
as a boy wonder; certainly, he is going
to make some of the more experienced
racers do some mean driving to make him
eat dust at the tape.

Peter Paolo, one of the greatest racers
that ever competed on American tracks,

band

by

is confident that he will not only win,, Captain Deck is second ranking captain
but will break a record or two. The,in the battalion. His ability as a com-
dashing Italian has long been near the |mander upon the field is ofthe highest,
head of the list of automobile racers, so | order. i
that any race in which he is entered is) fyouston is the high honor man in class-
sure to be worth seeing. work and first ranking lieutenant of the
battalion.

Announcement has been made that free
parking space has been provided to ac-
commodate 15,000 cars. A special sys-
tem has been worked out to do away
with the usual jamming of traffic at

Captain Crayton deserves this honor
on account of his efforts in making the

has developed the band to such a degree
that it has been called upon several times
various Chambers of Commerce
throughout the state to render a pro-
| gram.

Captain Moore is a captain of “A” com-
pany and well versed in military science
and tactics.

GRAY’S CAFE AND
AMERICAN LUNCH

Opposite Vance Hotel Statesville, N.C.

The home of good cooking

work that they are among the best

one.of the best in the state. He

a.
SELLERS Kitchen
Cabinet the best
servant you can put

in your Kitchen.

SOLD IN STATESVILLE BY

Nicholson Furniture Co.

such events. This is a great improvement,
and will do much to add to the success
this event is certain to be. |

MAGAZINE NOTICE

The attention of all those intend-
ing to submit manuscripts to the
Davidson College Magazine for
publication in the Special Thanks-
giving issue is called to the fact
that all matter must be in the
hands of the editors by the end of

We are always glad to have the Davidson

}

boys come to see us when in Statesville

WALTER CU

LBRETH CO.

VANCE HOTEL CIGAR STORE

a

first week in November. Short-

Roland Parker, 2 Georgia; and
humorous sketches to Warren
Ogden, 25 Georgia.

tL
stories are to be turned in to Wood ——— j
B y G ia; . He ae
Brown, 29 Georein; verse to J. Hi §]|| ATTENTION!!

Suits cleaned, Hats blocked, Shoes

shined whi

CENTRAL
Behind New Central Hotel

le you wait

HAT SHOP
Charlotte, N. C.

JIM PINKNEY
Davidson, Left End

The Davidson ends have been well cared
for this year as Pinkney and Bohannon

played good defensive games.

Mooresville Ice Cream Company

Incorporated

“DE LUXE”

Brick and Fancy Creams---Eskimo Pies

Mooresville, N. C.

HOUSE, SEE

WHITLEY-WILKINSON CO.

-’ LATEST COLUMBIA RECORDS

ICE CREAM

