THED

AVI

SONI

FOR A BETTER Bey ison

Vol. XII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. Cc, MARCH 19, 1925

AN

Hollingsworth Elected |

Head of Y. M. C. A.
For the > Ensuing Term

Ww. T. Gavingten js: is Chosen Vice-,
President—W. A. Christian,
Secretary

LEADERS NOMINATED

Hollingsworth Has Made a Name
for Himself Since He Has Been
at Davidson

At the annual Y. M. C. A. election, which
was held Monday morning, A. Hayden Hol- |
lingsworth was chosen as president for the
year '25-'26, with W. T. Covington as vice-
president, and W. A. Christian as secretary.
These men were chosen on the first ballot
from a number of candidates nominated by
the Y. M. C. A. cabinet.

Those nominated for president -were :

C. Barr, A. H. Hollingsworth, R. B. Baie
and D. G. Wilson. The nominees for vice-
president came from the rising Junior class.
They were W. T. Covington, D. H. Stewart,
W. S. Woods, and T. H: Hamilton. Those
nominated for secretary were W. A. Chris-
tian, J. W. Keerans, and J. A. McAlpine,
also from the rising Junior class.

All of these men are capable leaders and
have the interest of the Y. M. C. A. at heart.
They are popular among the students, and
have shown their ability in many Davidson
activities.

The present administration has set an ex-
ample of service and fellowship which will
be hard to equal, and the choice Monday
morning showed whom the student body |
thought most ‘capable, and more likely to)
‘continue the fine work which the Y. M. C. A.
has done on Davidson’s campus.

Aaron Hayden Hollingsworth, Jr., came
to Davidson in the fall of '22 from Atlanta, ,
Ga., and has made for himself a place in the!
heart of every Davidson man. From the!

{Continued on page 7) |

Popular Professor Noted
as Poet-Dramatic Reader

Poems Written by Professor
Wachter Show Optimism and a
Genial Philosophy

Carl Wachter, the Davidson professor pre- | *

senting the Kipling Recital tomorrow even- |
ing, has achieved fame as an artist in fields |
other than those of dramatic reading. For,
with the publication of “Star Glints,” and
the growing popularity of certain of the
poems it contains, notably “The Happy Man”
and “Shakespeare’s Return,” has come rapid
recognition of the “poet of Richmond.”

“The prophet of the joy of living” has
been applied to Carl Wachter, and his verse
carries a vital optimism that shows immedi-
ately the reason for the appellation. His
poems show that same genial philosophy that
his students know so well in his lectures and |
class room disserations.

Where Professor Wachter, formerly at
the University of Richmond, has lectured or
appeared in recital he has ever met with
success. At times he has given his own!
poems. . These have met with recurring ap-.
plause. Madison C. Bates, president of the)
Poetry Society of Southern Vermont, during
the past summer remarked not alone upon!
Professor Wachter’s unusual ability as a|
reader, but was also warm in his praise of |
the freshness and originality of his verse.

The three poems, by Carl Wachter, which
have merited the greatest notice, when he has
consented to read them, are: “The Ultimate
Conqueror,” “Shakespeare’s Return,’ and
“The World Builder.”

Professor Wachter has not included, and
perhaps will not consent to read any of his
Own compositions tomorrow evening. How-
ever, it is hoped that he will be able to ap-
pear at some later date in a program, featur-
ing his poetry.

|for discussing problems of world-wide in-
| of the time.

ler.

O. D. K. WILL INITIATE
FORMER STUDENTS

The Delta Circle of Omricon Delta
Kappa, at Davidson, is planning to
have a public initiation on April 3.
The public part will be in the form
of an address and a banquet, the.speak-
er to be announced later, At this time
about 30 prominent alumni will
taken in. The purpose of taking in
these alumni is to give those who have
proved their interest in the college
an honor, and a means of creating a
closer co-operation between the stu-
dents, faculty and alumni. The mem-
bers from the rising Senior class will
be taken in at this time.

Miss Wambaugh of
Massachusetts to
Speak Here lere Monday

The faculty committee on public lectures
will present in Shearer Hall on Monday
evening, March 23, what promises to be an
entertainment unusual interest. The
speaker is Miss Sarah Wambaugh, of Cam-
bridge, Mass., one who as author and lecturer
enjoys considerably more than national
reputation.

Miss Wambaugh is a daughter of the cele-
brated Professor Wambaugh, the Har-
vard Law School. She is a graduate of
Radcliffe, and has a doctor's degree, having
majored in Political Science. She is a
member of the Secretariat of the League of
Nations, being the expert advisor on Plebe-
cites and the status of the City of Danzig.
She has attended three of the
League, and has had unusual opportunities

be

of

a

of

sessions

terest with the léading international figures

Miss Wambaugh is a very attractive speak-
She enjoys the distinction of being the
| only woman ever invited to address for-
mally the Institute of Politics at Williams-
town, and again last August, when she made
a very spirited impromptu reply to Rear Ad-
miral Rogers, who had questioned the sin-

(Continued on pige 2)

Three Former Davidson

|

Students Make Feature
Addresses Before Boys

Murdock McLeod, Dwight Chalmers
and Dunbar Ogden Make Talks

ALL WELL ATTENDED

These Seminary Students Make
Deep Impression Upon Minds
of all the Fellows

22, and Dwight Chal-

Murdock Mel.eod,
‘20,
dresses before a large group of students at
Y. M. C. A. vespers Sunday evening. These
men, together with Dunbar Ogden, ‘23, con-
stituted a deputation from Union Seminary
which visited the campus during the week-
end. Ogden spoke at Ministerial Band and
again in chapel Monday morning.

McLeod based his remarks on the

Christ, “In
win your souls.”
wrecked life who placed his life before an-
other man for help. The one appealed to
could do him no good because he did not
have control of himself.’

“God gave the land, but the Israclites had
to go in and possess it.
silver and diamonds in the world,
must dig to get them,
find what was in the world. But the most
sublime thought is that he left man to go in
and possess his own soul.

“Man's soul was not given to him perfect
or complete, but it was given him that it
should be made perfect, and Christ is. the
perfect example of growth.”

The thought was expressed that in. build-
ing up’a team there must be both a passive
resistance and an active persistence. Our first
duty is to enter in and possess our souls, and
until the body is made subservient to the soul
we shall not be able to possess our souls,

The course that Christ chose was the one
of duty, of service, where happiness lies—the
course where there is the greatest develop-
ment of mind, soul and body.

As we go step by step with the Master we
become like Him, for we become like that to
which we attend. If we are not coming into

(Continued on page 5)

mers,

words
shall

of your steadfastness ye

but

Will Neal Former

Davidson Songster

As an added feature of the Kipling recital,
Will Neal, noted barytone of Charlotte, has
been: secured to contribute several of Kip-
ling’s poems as set to music. Mr. Neal is
well known to Davidson, and his songs, sung
in his characteristic way and accompanied by
Mrs. Coral Hayner Baker, will balance the
program to perfection.

The first appearances of Will Neal, bary-

tone, as a concert soloist, were made while he 1, “Fuzzy Wuzzy”--------- Kipling-Speaks
was a student at Davidson College. As a Mr. Neal
leading member of the musical organizations|2. “Gunga Din”_----------------- Kipling
of this institution he took part in many con-|3. “Chant Pagan”_---------------- Kipling
certs given in the Carolinas, receiving very|4. “The Explorer”_ Kipling
favorable comment and giving promise of a|5. “Cape Horn Gospel”_---------Masefield
| bright future as a singer of high rank. Professor Wachter
In 1919, when the Coral Baker Studio was 6. “Mandalay” ------------ Kipling-Speaks
opened in Charlotte, Mr. Neal began his | Mr. Neal
vocal studies with Coral Hayner Baker, and =
since that time has studied'’continuously under Part II
her direction. b ,7. “Tomlinson” Kipling
During the past five years Mr. Neal has 8. ae Code of afer, Sen OST ae Kipling
held the position of barytone soloist in two 9. “Natural Theology”------------ Kipling
, 3/10), oThemAnswerti ss ooo 52S Kipling
of Charlotte’s largest churches, and as‘a i Speen B LR
member of the Charlotte Choral Society has = Rees) ie) LEE sete OO ees
taken a leading part in recent oratorio pro- Ballads: ~--2=-----=--=---- Kipling
ductions. He has been a member of the Professor Wachter
Carolina Concert Club since its organization 12, “The Recessional” --Kipling-De Koven

(Continued on page 7)

A varied program, featuring many of the
famous ballads and poems by Kipling,
been arranged for the recital by Prof. Carl
Wachted, in Shearer Hall, Friday evening.
Professor Wachter will be assisted by two
widely known musicians, Mrs. Coral Hayner
Baker, and Mr. Will Neal, Charlotte;
and the program will include all of the best
known products of Kipling’s immortal pen.
The program is as follows:

has

of

Program

Part 1

delivered short inspirational ad-
|

He spoke of aman with a-

He put the gold, |
we
He trusted man to)

|
|

SIGMA PI SIMGA TAKES IN

NEW MEN
On last Monday night Sigma Pi
Sigma, honorary physics fraternity,

initiated three men selected by virtue
of their ability and interest in the de-

partment of Physies. These men were :

from the Senior class, A. W. MeAlis-
ter; from the Junior elass, L. B. Huie
and N, FE. Sappentield. Membership

in this fraternity is honorary, bids be-
ing extended only to those who have
shown unusual ability in their work in
physics and also have done creditable
work in their other studies. The fra-
ternity is a local one, the only chapter
being located at Davidson,

Many Sophs Will
Gather at Jovial
Feed in Charlotte

Members of the class of '27 will gather
around the festive board in Charlotte. tonight
for the biggest event of their
namely, the annual Soph banquet.

Sophomore
year,

has been beautifully and appropriately deco- |

rated for the oceasion; and plans are com-
plete for a gala celebration,

Special cars, chartered for the day, will
transport the members of the class to and
from Charlotte; and the experienced chefs
of the Chamber of Commerce kitchen have
been busy for several days, planning and pre-

| paring dainty and tasty dishes to set before

| the Sophomore revellers.

Mr. Neal

The banquet will
commence at 6:30 this evening, and the fes-
tivities will continue for approximately an
hour and half. Following the regular
banquet program the members of the class
will likely visit one Charlotte’s theatres,
and enjoy an hour of entertainment.

A varied and interesting program, in which
members of the class and faculty guests will
be featured, has been arranged by the com-
mittee arrangements. — Ronald Wilson,
Don Stewart, K. Brown and
K. J. Foreman, and Capt. Julian H, George
will be the leading speakers of the occasion,

(Continued on page 5)

a

ot

on
Professors C.

Prograts Taken From Kipling to Include Poems
And Songs That Have Gained Fame for Author

Mrs. Baker i in Role
Of An Accompanist

To the Kipling Recital tomorrow evening
Mrs. Coral Hayner Baker, of Charlotte, will
come to assist in presenting the musical num-
bers of the program. She will act as accom-
panist for Mr. Will Neal. For several years
Mrs. Baker directed the culture Mr.
Neal's voice, and he is said to appear to the

of

best advantage when she accompanies him at |

the piano.

For the past two years the Davidson Col-
lege Glee Club has been under the tutelage of
Mrs, Baker; and the success of the Wildcat |
songbirds has been largely due to her careful
and competent supervision. Mrs.

The |
banquet room of the Chamber of Commerce |

Baker is
also director of the recently organized Ora- |

High School Teams to
Vie in Great Meet On
Local Athletic Grourid

Cinder Path to Swarm With Lightly
Clad Youths Here Saturday ©

CRACK TEAMS ENTERED
Five Teams Matched for Struggle
for the Handsome Loving Cup—
Team Prizes

Davidson's cinder path will respond Satur-
day afternoon with the deep breathing of
high school sprinters and distance runners,
when six of the leading high school track
teams of this section vie with each other for
possession of a beautiful silver loving cup,
‘to be awarded to the winner of the invitation
track tourney, staged under the auspices of
the Davidson College Athletic Association.
Six teams have already been entered in the
meet, including teams from Charlotte, Win-
ston-Salem, and
Statesville. The athletic association will care
)for the men during their stay here, and will
‘furnish the members of the various teams
with dinner on the day of the meet.

The
noon's program are:
220-yard high hurdles ;
jump; shot putt; broad jump;
dash; mile run; 440-yard) dash;
dash; 880-yvard run; and mile The
team that scores the highest total of points
will be presented with a beautiful silver lov-
ing cup, the trophy being awarded by the
athletic association,

The Davidson Freshmen will enter a team,
but they will not be eligible the loving
cup as this goes to the high school having
the highest score. The Freshmen who are
out are working hard in preparation for the
meet, but Coach Tilson is not satisfied with
the number that is out for the team,

Charlotte is sending 28 men to enter the

(Continued on page 5)

Greensboro, — Salisbury

events to be included on the after-
120-yard low hurdles;
high

vault ;
100-
220-5

relay.

pe le

Prof. Carl Wachter Will
be Kipling’s Interpreter

Popular Professor Will Act in This
Distinguished Role Friday Night

When Prof. Carl Wachter makes his first
formal appearance at Davidson, in Shearer
| Hall, tomorrow evening, he will appear in his
most distinguished role—that of perhaps the
foremost interpreter of Kipling in the coun-
try. Rudyard ‘Kipling’s verse under Mr.
Wachter’s skillful presentation will be made
vivid and forceful to a degree, that will re-
veal to the audience a new conception of the
great poet’s genius.

where
he has
particularly in this
One
“Concerning Mr.

Throughout the East and South,
Professor Wachter has been heard,
(met with great success,
jfield of dramatic reading. critic ex-
presses it: Wachter’s
powers as an interpreter of Kipling, it is im-
| possible to say too much He
brings the British soldier to life. His dra-
{matic skill is of the highest order. The en-
tire program was satisfying, illuminating ;
thrilling. If there is a better inter-
preter of Kipling, we have yet to hear him.”

in praise.

yes,

Professor Wachter is possessed of a voice

torio Society, which presented Handel's | of rare timber and unusual range. Coupled
“ mS) ” " 9 o 4 ie} > 7 9 . . . 7 .

Messiah” before a large audience in Char-) with this natural gift is the exceptional one
lotte. Newspapers have heralded this latest of artistic, dramatic interpretation, As a

choral society of Mrs. Baker's as one of the |
finest ip the South.

| Portrayer of Barrack Room Ballads, with
their sketches of soldier life, Mr. Wachter

Mrs. Baker is recognized-throughout. the Lis adsmivadic. : He isa sttester 0% the cockney

Carolinas as an artist of the first rank. She | dialect.
began the study of music as a child and at an |

early age appeared in| concert with much
success as a pianist.
study and spent five years under the instruc-
tion of Mme. Marchesi in Paris. Returning
to America she toured the country as a con-
cert artist with splendid success. While in
(Continued on page 6)

Later she began vocal |

But in the program, prepared for
Friday evening, Professor Wachter stops not
| with humorous selections from Kipling. He
teaches that the Kipling is. more than the
“limner of the British Tommie,” that he has
gone farther, even into the reaches of the
universe for his themes, and has contributed
through them to a broader understanding of

| (Continued on page 2)
