THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 12, 1925

‘s

THE FLAT-IRON

‘

_A Tale of Romance and Intrigue Beneath Tropical Skies
BY KABLE

Editor’s Note—The Davidsonian feels for- |
tunate indeed in securing the services of a:
well-known feature writer on a national
syndicate to grace our columns. His effus-:
ions will be spread over a space of—iour
weeks and will be in serial form. The dar-
ing adventures of Dan Druff and his cohorts
will be followed with interest by all readers .
of this paper. For obvious reasons the real
name of the author is witheld.

Dan Druff came into the “old man’s office |
in his usual breezy, snappy way. Dan was a|
young reporter, just out of college; he had
attended one of the best barber colleges in
the state. His ruddy complexion, square
shoulders, and alert eyes proclaimed him for |
the athlete that he was; in iact he had played
for four years on the varsity checker team.

John Dough, affectionately called “the old.
man” by the office foree, newspaper owner. :
sport, and millionaire, turned in his chair. |
He was knitting his eyebrows. but he put |

away his knitting needles and faced Dan

Druff. :

“Danny, my boy, T've called you in here
because I know I can trust you. and you are
able to understand what I have to tell you. !
First take a cigar and have a scat." r

Dan took four of the choice Impericctos.
and sat down upon an upturned waste basket.
“All right, old dog, shoot.”

“Well, EM tell vou the condition that Iam
in, You know old Gabriel Snubbers?  Ee's
the so-called toothpick king, and on account
of his special patented device for printing ,
current events on the sides of the toothpicks |
he is beginning to monopolize the market. As |
you probably know. I’ve invested rather
heavily in Nickle-Plated Toothpick stock |
the chief rival of Snubbers Company. Some |
thing must be done; or I stand to lose a fair |

| morning at six-thirty.

/game to

whole fifteen dotlars caretully in his watch
case, and then proceeded to do the necessary
shopping for his voyage. He went in a hard-
ware store and bought a briei case. a pair of
socks, one collar, a set of wafile irons, and
thirty packs of chewing gum.

Dan slept soundly and dreamed of other
shores that night, and was on the dock next
The beautiful yacht,
“Flat Iron.” was gently riding the waves at
medium tide. None but the janitor was
aboard. :

About seven o'clock the crew and guests
arrived. Dan introduced himself to Snub-

.

-bers and then was presented to the others.

The last in line was old Gabricl’s daughter
Weona Snubbers, a girl somewhere between
the ages of fifteen and thirty, with the most
beautiful face Dan had seen since the day
heiore at the Follies,

“This trip will be more than a_ pleasure
since you're going to be along.” Dan said.
changing his cigar to.-leit side.

Weona blushed slightly and dropped her
eves: Dan quickly picked them up and re-
turned them, and bowed with gallant grace.

As they were boarding the “Flat Lron” a
note was slipped into Dan's hand. It was

| typewritten on the back of a check :

“IT you value your life, abandon this trip.”
(To be continued next week).

DAVIDSON AND CAROLINA

(Continued.from page 1)
They could defeat Stafe by only nine points.
whereas Carolina had defeated them seven-
teen, Then the men from Davidsou lost a
Furman 6-0) while Carolina
defeating Mercer 3-0, Last Saturday Mercer
whipped Furman 17-0. All this sounds a
little had fer the Wildcats, but there
always that indomitable and undefinable

was

‘is

sized fortune. I must learn the secre - an :
é ¢ secret process | fight that is in a Davidson team that never

of printing on the toothpicks, q “ty . . ‘
tow ine we Picks. Do you fol {gives up until the final whistle blows. And

: agai Zarolina they always do their dead
“Sounds pretty stiff. and also a littl py UNAINst Caro - hon ° :
pronly ‘ ° ttle dum level best. and especially this time since their

to me, boss, but I'm game to make a try of
it.” replied the frank Dan Druff.

“Good! I knew you wouldn't fail me in
this hysterical moment. I've ascertained the
plans of Gabriel Snubbers, by means of my
private mimeograph connected with every!
room in his house. He is leaving on his
yacht tomorrow morning for the South Seas.
ostensibly to find and photograph the almost
extinct watmus, a rare bird that feeds on;
nabiscoes in tropical climates. But the real,
purpose of the trip is to secure a supply of |
striped ink, and to experiment with the wood |
of the purple limburger palms for making !
toothpicks. Fle has all his blueprints with him. '
You, as a reporter, will go with the party!
supposedly to report on the ornithological
photographs of the birds. But for the other
keep your eyes open and use your own judg-
ment. You will take station number six of
the mimcograph along in your vost pocket so!
you can communicate with me.” l

“A truly excellent plan; have you made
arrangement jor me on the yacht?"

“Sure, all is ready for you. Old Gabriel's
daughter and several other guests will be.
along. Perhaps the girl will help you: out;
you're a sheiky sort anyway, Dan. Ha, ha.
ha!" Dough dismissed him and Dan helped

himseli to the rest of the Imperiectos and
went out.

In all his young lite, Dan Druff had never
faced such an adventure or had such a supply
of good cigars. First he went to the bank
and drew out his entire savings and put the

J

GES ER EEST TESTES SESS ETES ETE SST SDSS RES aaa TTTT STITT SETS TST ETTETTTSTTETE TEES

[pI IIIT II IIAP PIII III II IPI IP ITY

chances for the state championship hang in
, the halance.

Comparative scores are interesting, but to
predict the outcome of such a game as this
even two minutes hefore the last whistle
is almost folly. Many upsets have happened
in less time than that, and there is always a
chance for an upset in a Wildeat-Tar Heel
struggle.

The game will attract statewide attention
since it is the most important game in the
state on Saturday. li Carolina wins, the
champioriship will be a toss-up since the
Tar Heels have heen heaten by Wake Forest.
But if Davidson wins it will give them a
guod claim to the title .and especially if the
margin is over one touchdown, A large
crowd is expected, both of students and
alumni as well as football fans from all over
the state. The Davidson team will leave for
Chapel Hill Friday afternoon, followed hy
a special train of 200 or more Davidson
students and their band on Saturday.

.

TOM BAKER CHOSEN

(Continued from page 1)
Davidson Student government. is doubtless
in the hands of a strong exccutive, in Baker.
who will justify in all points the confidence
and responsibility with which his fcllow
students have endowed him. Baker, it is
remembered, was the ninner-up to Sappen-
field in the past Spring clection for this

_ office.

WHEN YOU FURNISH YOUR FRATERNITY

HOUSE, SEE

WHITLEY-WILKINSON CO.

LATEST COLUMBIA RECORDS

MOORESVILLE, N. C.

‘J. B. Thompson and. S. W. Moore.

eral, '

Davidson Hamprien-Sidney
; Position

Pinkney ... w---l @& 22. Ueenee Turley
Laird 2 ee a Worder
/Vanee 222220 Lo Log co celle Nance
McConnell -....2--. ¢. = .--Ludley (c)
Melton __- . _----- Clark
Baker ..__--. cole eee .eeeeee Miles!
Arrowood —_-. @ o-. -- Roberts
: Hendrix q.b. 222. .--- Brinser |
Grey R. --- --e--eel he eee ene Palmer
Leggette ...-.--.-.. r. hy ---------- Atkins
Black (c) -----...-7, b. cunnenne Edmunds

Two New Men Initiated
by Honorary Fraternity

Received Into Membership of
Prominent Chemical Society

As a result of. special activity and
pitogress in the chemical depariunent,
bids have been extended by Gamma Ep-
silon, honorary chemical fraternity, to
J.B. Thompson and S. W.. Moore. These
two men have shown a marked interest
in chemical work and were initiated into
the fraternity Friday night as a reward
for their earnest efforts and progress.
Moore has shown especial progress in
mastering the problems of organic chem-
istr while Thompson has been equally as
active in his work in inorganic chemistry.
After the initiation Frday nght, refresh-
ments were served and the event turned
nto a social one.

Gamina Sigma Epsiton is the only na-
tional honorary chemical fraternity for
undergraduates. based on scholarship
standing of students in the chemical de-
paciment, That the honors of member-
ship belong only to a select few is shown
by the small number of members. The
present list of members of the Davidson
branch are: Faculty, Dr. Wo 0. Martin,
Dr. 1h. Arbuckle and Professors O. J.
Thies and J. UW. Davis. Students, J. M.
Appleby, FTL. Smith, I. W. Norwood,
Jennings Karnhardt.. CL. Bragaw,. U1. 1.
Roseberry, 1. C. Lawson, J. Po Hendrix
and the two new members, }. 1. Thomp-
son ahd S. W. Moore.

New Name Selected
by Philosophy Club

The Omega Phi Alpha fraternity, for-
merly the Philosophy Club, at a. recent
meeting made this change in name, and

cleeted five new members: from the fac-.

ulty, Professor Noble: from the Senior
class, George Shaddock, S. W. Hrown,
O. 1. Brenner: from the Junior class:
WM. Austin, The present: members, of
this organization are: A. Th Vollings-
worth, C. E. Houston, R. W. Graves, T.
C. Barr, Ratand Parker, Professor Fore-
man and Dr. Sentelle.

The main purpose of this fraternity 3s
to stimulate interest and original study

in the field of psychology and philosophy, -

Membership to other hanorary fra-
ternitiés at Davidson is gained by ex-
celling in that particular field af study.
Omega Thi Alpha men ace chosen be-
cause they are nat content to view ile
and its problems from the comanon
siandpoint but because. they scratch the
suriace and dig for the pure philosophi-
cal study.

“Recently this fraternity accepted an in-
vitation to become one of the charter
members of the Honorary Fraternity
Connell, This invitation was favorably
acted upon and C, FE. Houston was chosen
to represent the fraternity on this coun-
cil-——

Omega Phi Alpha was organized for
the purpose of fulfilling tke aecds of
those students who have a vital interest
in philosophical, psychological and te-
lated arts by offering opportunity to de-
velop these interests in collaboration with
other students who have similar inclina-
viens. ,

HAMPDEN-SIDNEY TIGERS

(Continued from page 1)

In addition to leading his team well

Hendrix caught passes and ran the ball suc- |
_cessiully.

His team failed 10 shew the de-
tensive strength of previous games. Grey
outpunted Brinser and resmrned punts for
good gains. Brinser looked good as a gen-

Score by quarters 7

Davidson—6. 0 0 0—6.

Hampderi-Sidney—0 0 6 0—6.

Summary: Scoring —Touchdowns, Leg-
gette, Atkins. Officials—Hartsell (N. C.
State). Referee, Major (Clemson) Umpire,
Harrell (UNC), headlinesman. Attendance
2.200.

o

Literary Societies

Metrophilian

The Metrophilian Literary Socicry held
its regular meeting last Thursday eve-
ning at nine o'clock. The meeting was
presided over by the newly elected presi-
dent, FE, P. Pullen. The devotional exer-
cises were led by K. 1. D. Lyerly.

Atter the opening exercises, Don Stew-
art gave an interesting talk on his travel<
this. summer. He offered some very goad
advice to would-be travelers.and made a
very enjoyable talk, T. EF. Hamilton gave
current events. Herman Campbell gave
a very good oration on “Action.” which
was one of the best given in the society
this year.

Since several of the speakers on the
regular program were absent the presi-
dent decided to have an extemporancous
debate and appointed Boyce Martin on
the alfirmative and H. E. Powell on the
negative. The question for debate was
“Resolved, that the present system of
throwing water out of the dormitory win-
dows should be abolished." The judges
deeded in favor of the alfirmative.

Pandeinic

The Vandeinic Literary Society met
last’ Thursday with an intecesting pro-
eram,
defended the affirmative side of the de-
bate: S.W. Moore and T. FE. Will, the
Nepative. The program was concluded
with Current Events given by Mok. Me-
Carty. Vhe VPandeinie is planning for

Fresli Soph and funiar Senior debating,

teams to campete in the contests, to oc-
cur within ie Texk few weeks,
Eumenean

Vhe regular meeting of the Evumenean
Literary Society was held as usual last
Thursday evening at 7 o'clock. with Tom
Barr, President, presiding. The opening
prayer was offered by Mr, Chas. 4. Bea-
saw. There followed an oration, “Da-

J. AL MeAlpine and J. R. Grahame

Professional Notices

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN

DENTIST
S11, 312, 313, 31d and 315 Professional Bldg.

PHONES: Office, £059

Residence, 1937 § CHARLOTTE, N. °

Telephones 12 South Tryon Street
Office S171 Res 3419-W Over Garibald: & Bruns

DR. JAY R. McCABE

CHIROPRACTOR
Charlotte, N.C.

Neurocalometer Service

Dr. C. F. Smithson

DENTIST
Charlotte

Glasses Fitted

F. C. ROBERTS
OPTOMETRIST

Eyes Examined

24 South Tryon St.
Up Stairs
Telephone 3528

CHARLOTTE, N, C.

YRRARRARAARRARRERRAARERERERS
& DR. VANCE HASTY 5
x DENTIST 5
: x
B Statesville - + + - NOY

x

RARRARAAAAARARAARAALARAAAREA

DR. R. L. McKEE
CHIROPRACTER

vadson Spirit,” delivered by Mr Wo Td
Lynch, Mr Lynch handled bis subject

. : : : Mooresville, N. C.
inea very comprehensive aud interesting

Mayhew Bldg.

cmanner, his speech beig enjoyved by all.

* The query for the debate ofthe evening
- was Resolved; That the Senate Laws
Should be changed in accordance with
Dawes’ proposal, Thase upilding ie
atfirmative side of the issue were Murchi-
son and Wollingsworth, the
| Christian and Neaward.
rendered

Heypstive,
The decision was
to tin fawor of the negative.
Ilowever, in the generat discussion the
house was in favor of the attirmative.

The question of the revision of the
coustuution was then taken up, but to
detinive report could be rendered at the
time, :
Philanthropic

The last meeting of the Philanthropic
Literary Society was held en Thursday.
November 3th,

The query for debate was Kesolved:
Yhat Senate rules should be be changed
iin accordance with the Dawes proposal.
PLA. Ratehford and ®. S, Abernathy up-
held the alfirmative, while B. G. Fergu-
con and J.P. MeBryde took the negative.
The decision was in faver of the negative

abd d bd bd ddd hoa tii tier IIIitiiriitiiiriy ity)
.

ATTENTION—COGNOMEN
CONTRIBUTORS

The Davidsoniat, with this is-
suc, announces a colossal contest
open to the padlic in general and
tu the student body in particular.
Namely, to.give a suitable cogno-

“nen to the Davidson mascot, Mr.
Wildeat, who has been nameless, lo,
these many months,

lusert your selection in the space
below and have it in the hands of
the editor of The Davidsonian be-
fore next Monday noon. The win-
ner will be announced in the next
issue oft The Davidsonian and the
lucky one will be given a year’s
subscription to The Davidsonian.
The committee of judges will be Mr.
Wildeat, chairman, the editor of
The Davidsonian, the president of
the Athletic Association and one
member of the Faculty.

I hereby submit the following
name for the Wildcat:

CTSeccccc.cccccccccccccecccveccceccccosccecosecconocoeeooeeeoeooeee

Junior-Seniors to’
Engage in Debate

The lamiors and Seniors of the four
dehating socicties on the hill will engage
in their annual Junior Senior cebaung
nreet at an carly date, Afast of the soci:
clies will hold wheis preliminaries this
week to determine who its three repre-
sentatives shall be.

The subject that has been chosen by
the Forensic Conneil ist “Resolved. that
the United States should enter the World
Court.” Fluis is a topic of vital interest
to students and has been chseussed in the
student discussion groups.

The Senate will vete on the United
States entranee inte the World Court on
December izth, The decision of the
Senate will decide whether or not Ue
United States will east her lot with other
leading nations in the Court of Perma-
nent Justice, ag has heen advocated by
Woodrow Wilson: or: continue her pres-
ent policy of aloofness.

On November 24th the semt tinats will
he hetd. The Pandeinie Society will up-
holl te at@rmative agats¢ dre Afetro-
philian. while the Plianthropie Socicty
will tack the affirmatice against the Fu:
wenean, The Gnais, which wil. tbe be
held between the two winners, are
scheduled tor December erd.

The Forensie Council has aunounced
that no intercellegiate drovaters will be
‘allowed to debate in the Junior-Senior
contest.

side. There was also a declamation, ren-
dered by H. A. Knox.

At this meeting officers for the follow-
ing term were elected. “They were as
follows: President. Barrington, J. C.:
Vice-President. Hodgin, W. L.; Secretary,
Dixon, B..W.; First Critic, Williford, A.
B.: Second Critic, Davis, C. G,: First Su-
pervisor, Cathoan, R. G.. and Second
Supervisor, Phillips, F. A.

Davidson docs not meet the team that
lost to Wake Forest. however. It clashes
with the team that has won successively
from Duke, South Carolina, N. C. State,
Mercer, Maryland and V. M. T..

We are battling the team that is tied
with Alabama for Southern Conference
honors: It will be a battle of brains, a
battle af speed and a battle o fsportsmen.

But so did Wake Forest.

<<
