A

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 23, 1925

y

No. 26

WILDCATS DEFEAT THE GAMECOCKS IN THRILLING GAME

Vesper Audience Hears _
Seminary Head Discuss
Student Life Problems.

Dr. R. T. Gillespie Spoke to Numer-
ous Campus Organizations

IS DAVIDSON GRADUATE

Many Students Enjoy Private Inter-
views During Three-Day Visit
of Speaker

Dr. R. T. Gillespie, president of Columbia
Theological Seminary, addressed the stu-
dents at the Y. M, C, A. Vespers on the
subject, “Investment in Life,” taking as his
text, “For whosoever will save his life shall
lose it, but whosoever shall lose his life for
my sake and the gospel’s, the same shall
find it.”

In developing his text Dr. Gilliespie stress-
ed the point that a man must not simply lose
his life, but he must do so for the sake of
Christ and the gospel. Then shall he find it
again, and in abundance.

As an illustration of a man who gave all
he had to Christ, the life of David Living-
stone was used, He-decided to go into Africa
and tell the negro about the Saviour, who
had died that they might live in heaven. His
family opposed his purpose. His friends ad-
vised him not to go, saying that it would
only result in an early death, and no good
would be accomplished in the end. But Liv-
ingstone was willing to lose his life. and he
clung to his purpose. He went into the
heart of Africa, where he was lost. All of
the world knew that he was lost, and they |
watched with anxiety for some news of his
return, When a party of men finally found |
him, he was dead. His corpse was the re- |
ward of their search. His heart remains in|
the land of those to whom he gave his life.
and whom he served. He was willing to give |
his life for the sake
Christ. |

Anothér illustration was that of a woman |

(Continued on page 5)

Reporters’ Club Selects |
Thirteen New Members

G. M. Eddington is Chosen to Lead|
Organization During Next Year

of the Gospel and}

At a special meeting, held on Friday night, |
April 17th, the Reporters’ Club elected offi- |
cers for the coming year; and elected 13 new |
men to membership. The meeting was held |
in the parlor of West Dormitory.

The meeting was called to order by L. B.|
Gibbs, retiring president, promptly at 10}
o'clock, After the regular business was dis-|
posed of nominations were made for new |
officers, For president, G. M. Budington|
and E. K. Regen were nominated. Edding-
ton was elected. For vice-president V. S.
Broyles, W.. T. Covington and W. S. Woods |
were nominated. Broyles was elected on the |
second ballot, the final choice being between '
Covington and Broyles. C. C. Murchison
and W. T. Covington were nominated for |

, Secretary-treasurer, Murchison being elected. |

There will be no formal installation of of - |
ficers, the new men taking charge at once.
The retiring officers are: L. B. Gibbs, presi- |
dent; D. G. Wilson, vice-president, and A. |
Y. Bowie, secretary-treasurer. The retiring |
officers each made speeches of welcome and |
encouragement to the new officers. |

Thirteen new men were elected to mem. |
“bership ‘in tHe Chid for the coming year. The;
elections of these men were made upon the |
recommendation of the retiring Davidsonian |
staff. The following men were made mem-|
bers at the meeting: Kenneth Bell, Wade
Allison, W. S. Gordon, J. B. Webb, H. L.

Shelby, Boyce Martin, Caldwell Withers, |

(Continued on page 3)

! sociation
‘through May

| who are interested in the

| Piggy

Collegiate Press
Convention Will
Meet N Next Week

The North Carolina Collegiate Press As-
will meet Davidson, April 30,
2, in its semi-annual conven

at
tion, Approximately 40 students are expect-
ed to attend from the various institutions in
the state, These students will represent 20
publications and 15 institutions.

An informal the visiting
delegates is planned for the evening of April
30.

Friday morning's session Will be featured
by an address by Dr, Frazer Hood, who will

reception for

jspeak on the subject, “The Psychology of

the News Item.”

An address by Marion Saunders, of the
University of North Carolina, president. of
the association, together with a business ses-

the appointment of commit-
tees, reports of publications, and other busi

sion, including

ness will occupy the morning session of the
convention, A baseball game is being plan-
ned tor Friday afternoon, and tentative plans
include reception in fraternity halls. A han-
quet for the delegates has been planned for
Friday night, the banquet probably to be held
in Charlotte.

Mr. J. A. Parham, managing editor of the
Charlotte Observer, will address the conven-
tion Saturday morning, using for his theme
“College Students and the Newspaper.” The

(Continued on page 3)

Two Big Contests
Interest Debaters

Those in the student body and’ elsewhere |

forensic art are
looking forward with a great deal of inter-
est to the coming debates with Wake Forest
and with Presbyterian of South
Carolina.

On Friday, April 24, at 8:15 o'clock, in
Shearer Hall, a team representing Davidson
will debate a team from Presbyterian Col-
lege on the subject of “Resolved, That Con-
gress should be empowered to override by
two-thirds vote the decisions of the Supreme
Court declaring acts of Congress unconsti-
tutional.” Davidson will be represented by
Martin, Ben Ratchford and Buck |
Shaw. The above men speaking in the given
order will uphold the affirmative of the!
question. E, T. Wilson, D. D. Edmunds
and J. D. McInnis will defend the negative
for P. C, All six debaters are men of tried

College

| mettle and an interesting evening is in store |

for those who are interested.

On May 1, in Charlotte, at Queens Col-
lege, Davidson will again seek to uphold her
forensic reputation when Wake Forest is
encountered. In this debate R. B. Parker,
A. Y. Bowie and L. D. Wharton will defend
the negative of the above stated question.
Opposing them for Wake Forest will be O.
L. Norment, C. R. Holmes, and J. J. Tarl-!
The question under discussion is one
which is engaging the attention of the men
who think throughout the country, and the,
debates will be worth while from a stand-!
point of information as well as a study of
the art itself.

During the past years Davidson has en-
countered Wake Forest on six different oc-
casions, winning four of them and losing
two. The first debate with this school was
in 1910.

The debate with P. C. is the first that we
have had with them and it is with a great
deaf of interest that the outcome of this
intial encounter is awaited. The Wildcats
have high hopes of winning this debate since
Martin, Ratchford and Shaw are among the
most skillful debaters on the campus.

Piggy Martin, of the Senior class, is prom-
ient in all phases of student activity, being -a

(Continued on page 3)

ton.

Includes Many Unusual
Features and Speakers

Rev. J. G. McAllister Will Deliver |

the Baccalaureate Sermon

INVITATIONS ARE BEING
PRINTED

Class Exercises and Lowering of
Class Flag Will Conclude the
* Celebration

The plans for the s9th Commencement: of
Davidson College have-tinally heen complet
and the with the program
cards are now being printed. The faculty
and Senior class have suceeeded in securing

ed, Invitations

the best speakers available, and are arrang
ing for interesting and impressive exercises.
The college orchestra has been engaged for
the entire four days and will add much te
the enjoyment of the season. “The program
May 31,

2
De

will begin Sunday morning,
run through Wednesday, June

On Sunday morning at 11 o'clock Rev. J.
G. MeAllister, D.D., will preach the bhae-
calaureate Doctor MeéAllister
now the professor of Bible and Theology at
He is
a graduate of Hampton-Sidney College and
the Union Theological Seminary and. since
his. graduation has been back to both institu
tions, to the former as president and to the
In “Who's Who" he

is classified as a well-known theologian, edu

and

sermon,

the Louisville Theological Seminary.

latter as a professor.

cator and conference lecturer,

At 8:00 p.m. Rev. Neal Anderson, of Sa-
vannah, Ga. will deliver the annual sermon
before the Y. M,C. A,

The Senior class exercises at 5:30 p,m.

the Dramatic Club performance at 8:00, and)

the general fraternity reception at 10, are the
only events to take place on Monday. The
Senior class will present their gift to the
college during their exercises.

The Board of Trustees meets at 9:30
Tuesday morning. Dr. J. R. MeCain, presi-
dent of Agnes Scott College, will deliver the
annual literary address at 12:15, Doctor
McCain is a graduate of Erskine College
and has received post-graduate degrees from
Mercer University, the University of Chi-
cago, and Columbia University. He is the
founder of the Darlington School, at Rome,
Ga. He with Agnes
Scott College since 1915 in the capacity of
registrar, professor of Economies, vice-presi-
dent and president.

has been associated

The alumni luncheon given at the expense
ot the college at 1:30 will be the outstanding
feature for the alumni. Provisions for rgoms
and board will be made jor any alumni who
will write Mr, F. L. Jackson. Class
unions of '24, '20, 15 and so on for five-year
periods will be held this commencement.

A reception by the faculty at 5:00 p. m.,
exercises of the literary societies at 8:00, and
the Senior class festival at 10 complete the
exercises for Tuesday. The Senior class
feature is to be a surprise for the onlookers
as the nature will be kept secret until it is
presented. A. M. Martin is head of the

(Continued on page 5)

HO

NEW I. R. C. MEMBERS

The International Relations Club
has recently. elected the following. stu-
dents to memberhip:

E. K. Regen.

W. A. Christian.
T. G. McCutchen.
W. C. Ogden.

E. E. Lingle.

W. B. Rice.

L. H. Leathers.
J. B. Webb.

E. F, Bohannon.

Commencement Program Alabama Senator

Will Lecture to
Students Monday

Senator J. Thomas Heflin, of Alabama,
will speak in Shearer Hall, Monday, April
27, at 7:30 p.m. The subject of his lecture
will be “The Story of the South.”

Davidson students and townspeople have a
rare opportunity of hearing one of America’s
greatest Hetlin to
Congress in 1904, and resigned in 1920 te fill

orators, — Senator went
out the unexpired term of the Hon. John HH.

Bankhead in the Senate.

Senator Heflin is an orator of very great
ability and his oratory is typieal ot the best
traditions of the South,
as a story-teller; his impressive personality
hold
The deseriptions of the cotton
Southland

be literary masterpieces, and none

He has ne superior

and fine resonant Voie his listeners
spellbound.
fields all abloom: in the are said to
should
Miss. hearing them,

Senator Heflin will be remembered also as
the author of the resolution in’ Congress
making the second Sunday in’ May Mother's
Day. This alone should make him popular
with the students, besides his art
He
serious,
A small admission fee of 25 cents will be
No Davidson stu

telling
and applying an anecedote. is equally

good whether humorous o1

charged for the lecture.

dent can afford to miss the opportunity of

hearing this noted orator on a great subject
that interests everyone,

Funds for Queens

A combined drive for funds in behalt ot
and Hangehow College,
Hangehow, China, held the interest of Da-
vidson students during the past few
The Davidson drive for six thousand dollars
for Queens College, led by Jim) Milhous and.

Queens College

days.

his corps of organized workers, was con-
ducted in econjunection with the drive
funds to support Warren Cox, Davidson's
own representative on the Hangehow College

faculty; and Davidson
unselfishly to both causes,

students responded

The Hangehow Drive was to have been
run separately from that of Queens College,
but a close consideration by leaders in both

campaigns led to the combination, Room-

jto-room canvasses by the various workers,

after a big get-together meeting in Shearer

Hall on Wednesday morning, was highly suc- | é

cessful. Students were urged to subscribe
to both campaigns, and their subscriptions
were taken for the two causes by the same
set of canvassers. :

The Queens College workers were guests
at a banquet at the New Charlotte Hotel on
last Friday evening, and at that time the
various officers of the Davidson committee
were elected. At that time Davidson was
represented by over 20 members of the stu-
dent body at a banquet given at the New
Charlotte Hotel for the purpose of putting
on the Queens College drive at Davidson.
Mr. Lockhart, director of the drive, in stat-
ing the cause of the meeting, stated that the
men present would act as a committee in
putting over the drive.

The principal speaker of the occasion was
Dr. Frazer, president of Queens. Dr. Frazer
stated that his purpose in life was to see
Queens established as an A-grade institution
and one which is recognized by other col-
leges and universities—even as Davidson.
Git iis is tone, he declared, he - would
not be ready to die, but if this was realized
his one ambition would be fulfilled. Dr.
McGeachy, one of thddirectors of Queens,
added some statements to Dr. Frazer’s re-
marks pointing out the relation that David-
son bears to Queens and the feeling of co-

(Continued on page 5)

Davidson Trackmen Win
From South Carolina in
Last Event of Contest

South Carolina Leading by Six
Points Until Closing Minutes

GOODYKOONTZ IS STAR

McConnell’s Sensational Perform-
ance in Mile-Run Brings Specta-
tors to Their Feet

Davidson defeated the University of South
Carolina Saturday in their dual track meet
held at Columbia by the narrow margin of
The meet

two points, The score was 37-55,

Was nip and tuek all the way through, Da
vidson got off te a good start, but the
Gamecocks soon tied the score up. Then
the tun started; first one was ahead, then
the other, At the last event, whieh was the
javelin throw, the South Carolinians were
ahead six points, but by MeCombs taking

first place and Gracey second the Wildeats
nosed out ahead.

The mile run was the sensation of the
meet. MeConnell (Davidson) and Planna
han (Carolina) tied for first place. This is

very unusual due to the length of the run.
Rowe, of Carolina, made one of the strong-
finishes on the two-mile ever seen, On
the last lap Williford (Davidson) was lead-
ing him about 30 yards when he started: hfs
spurt and won by about a 15-yard margin.
Sook
the track in this meet and came back with
the first place in the shot put to his credit.
Three of the Davidosn team made their let-
Brand, MeMillan. and Cal-

est

Sores made his first appearance on

ter in this meet
houn,

Gaston was the outstanding star for the
Gamecocks, while Goodykoontz and MeCon-
nell showed up: well for Davidson. Gaston
and took three first
apiece. MeConnell took one and tied one.

The day was ideal track weather, being

(Continued on page 6)

Goodykoontz places

Freight Rate Reduction
is Plea of Ex-Governor

Ex-Governor Morrison Delivers
Scholarly Address Before Stu-
dents of Economics

1 Calling on the sons of North Carolina to

high freight

challenge

thes problem of rates
the their
patriotism, ex-Governor Cameron Morrison
presented his plea for port-terminals, in a
forceful discussion delivered before a rep-
resentative group of and towns-
| people, Monday morning at Davidson,

| Prof. A. Currie, of the
| partment ,invited ex-Governor Marrison to
| speak before the class in Economics at the
111:40 period. The met
| Hall, where other classes and friends were
invited to hear the ex-governor speak on the
question of port terminals.

cept

! within state as a to

students

Economies de-

class in Shearer

Ex-Governor Morrison opened his discus-
sion by saying that cheap and serviceable
transportation was necessary to the prosper-
ity of any people. He emphasized the fact
that the people of North Carolina should
look upon the problem of high freight rates
as a State question, and act-as'a unit in solv-
ing the difficulty.

“North Carolina cannot be independent as
long as the freight question is based on the
complete monapely of. the railreads,” said
Governor Morrison.

He pointed out the cause of high rates in
North Carolina, by saying that freight rates
are made on the basis of “basing points” that
are located in Virginian, so far as this state
is concerned. North Carolina rates are made

(Continued on page 5)

