TH

EDAVI

ONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XII:

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 15, 1925

Charlotte Business Man
Makes Stirring Address

Topic Was “Commonest Mistake In |

Christendom”—Listened to
Attentively

WONDERFUL APPEAL

Talked On Doubts and Fears That
Come Into Life of Every
College Student

In a gripping, shoulder-to-shoulder ad-
dress at the vesper services on last Sunday,
Mr. Tom Glasgow, prominent citizen of
Charlotte, spoke to the Y. M. C. A. on the
problem of personal faith, with a few words
in opening on the problems of personal
purity. “Every man has to face the prob-
lem of personal purity,” he said, and he gave
two points which had most helped him to
conquer in the struggle. First, the subcon-
scious memory of the teachings of his moth-
er; second, the endeavor to build up a sense
of justice. “It is not fair to deny your sister,
and your sweetheart, and indulge yourself,”
was his interpretation of a sense of justice.

His main topic he classed’ as “The com-
monest mistake in christendom,” the problem
of personal faith. He said that errors in

thought have filtered into the pew and pul- |

pit, and gave as an example Harry E. Fos-
dick, who was a capable man, but had fol-
lowed a mistaken line of thought.

The speaker told how he, when a college
student, had often wondered, “Is there really
a God?” and spoke of the anguish of his un-
certainty. He then told a Bible story of a
man’s uncertainty. Nicodemus came and
rapped-on Jesus’ door; he entered, and he
used tact in his address to Jesus, but He
could even read minds, and He knew Nico-
demus had not come for that, so He told
him what he had come for. Jesus then told
him he could not get what he came for un-
less he was born again. This perplexed
Nicodemus and he could not understand how
a man could be born again; and Jesus ex-
plained that he had a physical body and a
spiritual body. Still Nicodemus was uncer-
tain. Jesus told him to look out of the win-
dow, and let the wind blow against his cheek:
Then he asked him from whence they had
come. He said that Nicodemus was mis-
taken, it is not a matter of personal knowl-
edge, but of personal faith.

He told of how the Israelites crossed the

Red Sea, cursed God, and His manna, and |
Then of how!)

of how they were afflicted.
Moses made the serpent and put it on a pole
and all who believed were healed. He then

(Continued on page 5)

Prelims to be Held for

the Senior Oratoricals

Twelve Men Have Signified Inten- |

tion of Contesting For This
Coveted Trophy

The preliminary tryouts for Senior Speak- |

ing will be held tonight at 7:00 o'clock in
the auditorium of Shearer Hall. At this

time four speakers will be chosen to par- |

ticipate in the Senior Speaking Contest at
commencement.
have signified their intention of entering the
preliminaries,

Each speaker will present at this time an
oration, which will be judged according to
its excellence ; consideration being shown for
the thought, method, and delivery of each
speaker. Five members of the faculty have
been secured to act as judges.

Senior Speaking is an annual event of
great interest to the forensically inclined
members of the Senior class. The Senior
Speaking Medal, to be given to the winner
in the finals during commencement, is high!y
prized, Aloag. «kk Junior Speaking, the
finals of which will be held during Junior
Speaking in the spring, Senior Speaking af-
fords the’only contest of speaking ability.
Both are restricted to one class. :

Approximately 12 Seniors |

Superior Teamwork and Technique of Wildcats
Enable Them To Beat Methodists Twice in Ro

'
|

Red and Black Machine Comes Back Strong In Final Spurt to Win Friday’s.
Game 27-25----Excellent Passing and Good Team Work In Second
- Game Causes Defeat of Duke, Who Played Hard to
Overcome Lead----Spec McConnell Stars

Price and Patterson to
_ Attend Mission Meeting

Five Thousand Will Attend One of
Greatest Christian Conferences
Ever Held In U. S.

Harry B. Price, president of the Davidson
College Y. M. C. A., by vote of the student
body has been selected as representative to
the foreign missions convention which wil
convene in Washington, D. C., January 28.
Norman G. Patterson possibly will also at-
‘tend. If he does he will be sent by the
| Volunteer Band.

The foreign missions convention has been
called together upon the united—efforts of
[the foreign mission boards and societies of
| Canada and of the United States. The chair-
|man, James L. Barton, in his official an-
|nouncement states “the primary purpose of his
{convention is for the information and_ in-

spiration of the churches of Canada and the

United States. It will be an educational,
{not a deliberative or legislative assembly.
| It will not deal with questions and problems
of administration on the mission field.
| addresses, to be given by the best speakers te

(Continued on page 5)

Mid-Winter Edition
Magazine Promises

To be a Lively One

The Davidson College Magazine, which
| will come from the press on March 1, will

be a much larger issue than has ever been |

published before. Short stories, poetry and
essays, with other miscellaneous articles, will
|make up the literary part of this magazine.

The Davidson College Magazine will go
to the press on the first of February. This
issue will be the only issue for the year and
will accordingly be the largest issue ever
published. It will be composed of 200 pages,
78 of which will be taken up with literary
work,

best possible. The professors of the English
department are co-operating with the mem-
bers of the staff in securing short stories,
poems and other articles from the various
English classes. :

The staff requests that all students, desir-
,ing to contribute articles to the magazine.
turn their articles over to the editors of the
departments to which they are desirous of
contributing articles. The editors the
various departments are as follows: Al
Simpson, short story; Benton Wharton, ¢s-
say and miscellaneous; R. W. Walker, hu-
morous department.

The business manager with his staff of
assistants is preparing an extensive campaign
for advertising. This work will necessarily
|be very heavy, in order to mect the expense
{of such a large issue.

of

| Last year Trinity tried to get one sched-
j uled for their new gymnasium. If Duke
| wouldn't like to have one this year, State
| might be willing to put one on in their new

| building.

And that gymnasium—one of the finest in

the state—is named in honor of a former |

Davidson student and athlete, Frank
Thompson made a great name at Davidson
-for a couple of years.

- | odists under a 39-22 score.

The

It is the ambition of the staff to!
make thé quality of this magazine the very |

With 13 Points to His Credit

| TENCE
Coach Monk Younger’s Wildcats opened
{the 1925 inter-collegiate basketball season of
North Carolina last week by defeating the
| Duke University quint twice in’ succession—-
{thus establishing the record of having been
| the last school to win over Trinity College
land the first to defeat the new Duke Uni-
versity.

| Friday night's game in Charlotte was a
| remarkable for Davidson—the
Wildeats scoring 14 straight points in a final
| seven-minute rally to overcome a Duke lead
|of 12 points, and to win the game by a 27-25
| score,

| Saturday night the Wildcats started from
|the first whistle a sharp passing and short
shooting attack that smothered the Meth-
| The game was
| played before a crowd that packed the alumni
gymnasium beyond its capacity. Only once
|throughout the game were-the visitors able
\to rally--that at the begining of the second
| half,
Jand went on a scoring rampage, piling up
{16 consecutive points in a great burst of

| speed.
|

comeback

|

| many, but Spee McConnell probably shone
{more brilliantly throughout the two contests
| shan any other player. In‘the first half of
| Friday's game when the Davidson team was
| being thoroughly drubbed by the Duke team,
|McConnell’s playing was great as on both
| offense and defense he was the leader of the
| Davidson quint. His passing was a great
factor in the finaly rally which brought vic-
| tory to Davidson. Saturday night, with bet-
/ter support from his teammates, he played

| both teams with 13 points.
| Friday's Game
| After trailing the Durham lads throughout
|the first period in a miserable game, the
| Wildcat team started the second half with
| the score 15-7 against them, Duke through-
jout the entire first period played rings
jaround Coach Younger’s men and save for
\the work of McConnell and Boggs on the
{defense the Davidson team did not show up
| well at all. i

With Duke leading, 25-13, the Wildcats
started one of the greatest comebacks ever
pulled on a basketball court, as in the last
seven minutes Davidson scored 14 straight
points. The change came when Andy Hew-
lett and Laird were injected into the game.
With great dash and speed Hewlett started
the Wildcats into a splurge of passing and
floor work that bewildered the over-confident
Methodists. With every man on the David-
son quint passing nigh-perfectly, Hewlett

scored four points. McConnell, playing a
game only excelled the following night.
!scored two more. Then the team began

feeding the ball to Anderson, who looped
| three straight into the basket to tie the score
j}and then won the game with a difficult shot.

| The small crowd which had gathered in the |

auditorium went wild, the sharp report of the
| final gun soon bringing them to their feet
| with a mad outburst of joy.

| Captain Boggs played his usual steady
game with frequent exhibitions of great
dribbling, Ed Bullock led the Duke team
well, showing nice caging ability and fast
floor work.

The line-up and scoring follow:

Davidson. Position. Duke.
Staley (3): -2: 2 <= 22° 2- —=-Bullock (8)
Right forward
Beall_(2).-<s<s-<a az == ss == Graham (1)

Left forward
(Continued on page 6)

The Wildcats, however, stopped this |

The Wildcat stars in the two games were |

|his greatest game, leading the scoring of

‘Coach Tilson Plans to
Develop Fast Ti rack Team

Schedule for Season Announced by
Manager Patton — Meet With |
Virginia Tech Last of March

With some 12 or 15 men already in fairly
good condition for the Wideats’ first run-
ning, jumping and throwing bee with Vir-
ginia Polytechnic Institute, and with a large
turnout of aspirants for the team, Coach Tex
Tilson expeets to develop a good track and
field organization at Davidson this year. |

There are several letter men from last |
year’s squad around whom this year’s team
will be built. These men Captain
Gracey, better known as “the track team,”
on account of his remarkably successful par-
ticipation in three or four events per meet. |
He is a hurdler of no mean ability and also |
takes part in the field events—shot put, jave-
lin and pole vault, Thea there is “Red” An-
derson, who is expected to reach his prime
this year. Red is exceptionally good in the
javelin throw and the pole vault. The other
jtwo letter men who will grace the cinder
| path with their presence this year are Jim
| (Continued on page 6) .

are?

Literary Societies
Inaugurate a New |
System of Medals

Much interest is being taken among. the |
members of the literary societies with regard
{to the new system of awarding prizes and
}medals which is now being considered. For
some time past there has been a feeling in
the minds of various members that some-
thing should be done to create more spirit for
the contests and make the prizes worth the
putting forth of more effort and work on
the part of the contestants.

Sometimes before the Christmas holidays
the forensic council, composed of inter-so-
ciety members, and the Alpha Phi Epsilon
debating fraternity held a joint mecting and
drew up a set of resolutions covering this
idea.
four literary societies to be discussed and
acted upon. The Eumencan society has ac-
cepted the resolutions and it is hoped that
the others will accept them this week.

The main idea is to have a few medals
worth contesting for, instead of the many
medals now offered by cach society, and for
which very few men strive. The new awards
will be of a new design, not yet selected.
The new system will not affect in any way
the events already held, only those in the
future.

It is planned to abolish the Fresh-Soph
declamation contest and substitute a Fresh-
man declamation event, each society picking
{two men to represent it. Only one medal
| will be given jointly by all societies.
| Instead of four medals as now, only one
Fresh-Soph debater’s medal will be awarded.
This will go to the best speaker in the finals.
This not only places a premium upon good
debating but also upon the team work ability
of this speaker, since he must have, good ,
partners to win. The same method will be |
followed,in awarding the medal to the Ju-|
nior-Senior debaters, H

An essayist medal, open to any member!
of any society, is also to be given. A com-|

These were in turn passed on to the

(Continued on page 5) |

Resolutions Passed By
Students Thanking Duke

Committee Appointed By Hendrix
Drafts Resolutions for
Student Body.

MUNIFICENT GIFT. ,
yea +
Student Body Appreciates Greatly
the Charitable Spirit Which
Prompted This Gift.

The Davidson student body unanimously
passed resolutions thanking Mr. J. B. Duke,
of Charlotte, for his gift to this institution,
A committee was appointed by J. M. Hen-
drix, president of the student body, and the
resolutions drawn up by them were adopted
as read, just before the Christmas recess.

Davidson will receive five per cent of the
income of $40,000,000 after 20 per cent has
reverted into the principal, and this amount
will range between $75,000 and $100,000 each
year, increasing as the years pass and. fluc-
tuating according to the. prosperity of the
Duke interests each year,

This income willeprove a great benefit to
Davidson, whose net income from endowment
at the present time is but $37,500. This will
give the institution three times as much
operating capital as heretofore, and «will
enable Davidson to add new faculty members
and the facilities work and
housing of students.

The resolutions adopted follow :

increase for

Resolutions

Whereas, Mr. James Buchanan Duke ia
his bequest of $40,000,000 to charitable and
educational institutions in the Carolinas, has
set aside a liberal portion of this sum for
the ‘needs and of Davidson College;
therefore be it resolved:

First. That the student body of Dawidson
College heartily commend the charitable and
benevolent spirit which prompted Mr, Duke
to aid the cause of education.

That the student body of David-

uses

Second.

son College extends its thanks and deepest

appreciation to Mr, Duke for the income
from this bequest which ‘shall acerue to Da-
vidson College.

Third. That the student body of David-
son College calls upon all alumni of the col-
lege, and upon all friends, to join with it in
an expression of graitude to the donor of
this munificent gift which is destined to play
a great part in the upbuilding of charitable
and educational institutions in the Carolinas.

Fourth, That a copy of these resolutions
be sent to Mr. Duke, the papers of the state,

(Continued on page 6)

Mr. Williams GiveniGonl
Advice in His Address

Reads Impressive Selection at End
of Speech—Minister Must Be In
Sympathy With Others

In an interesting and instructive talk be-
fore the Ministerial Band last Sunday after-
noon, Mr. J. P. Williams, secretary of the
Y.M. C. A., used as his theme “The View-
point of the Minister in Regard to the Busi-
ness Man.”

In his statements concerning the impor-
tance of the business man in the church, Mr.
Williams said that the Southern Presbyte-
rian Church controls the wealth of the South
in that it possesses more wealth per capita
than any other church, The increase of
wealth in the last few years was noted, but
the increase of wealth in the next 50 years is
not to be compared with that of the past 50
years, he predicted.

* Mr. Williams continued his address by say-
ing that there are too things that the min-
ister must have. First, he must have a com-
plete and accurate knowledge of his mes-
sage, and then he must know the people to
whom the message goes. In the average con-
gregation there’ are generally a few men
(Continued on page 5)
