4

ao

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

. FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE.— .--Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN..-..-.--.Business Manager

Editorial Staff

Cc. F. SMITH. Managing Editor |
WisE MILTON cc2ks ce cj ccces cece Assistant Managing Editor
Cc. F. MONK..-.-- -Assistant Managing Editor
A. F. SIMPSON. --Peanut Parcher Editor
H. B. PRICE.--. ---------Associate Editor
W. H. BRANCH Associate Editor
H. L. SHAW.... Associate Editor

G. D. ROGERS.
L. D. WHARTON

---Alumni Editor
ey ee er ees Athletic Editor

U Business Staff
J. A. THOMPSON.....-...-

-----Circulation Manager
T. C. McSWAIN Subscription Manager
Cc. R. HUNTER.--.. .-----------Bookkeeper
J. M. GARRISON ervice Manager
W. H. LYNCH.. Seeeecs

Typist

Reporters’ Club

L. B. GIBBS, President J. M. GARRISON

D. G. WILSON, Vice-Pres, J. P. GLADNEY

A. Y. BOWIE, Sec. A, LINGSWORTH
C. R. ANDERSON ag Deen ON,

ij M. APPLEBY =* J. Di LAWS

I. M. AUSTIN. © W. H. LYNCH .
Cc. L. BRAGAW R. H. McILWAINE

V. S. BROYLES GARNETT McMILLAN
D. M. CALHOUN J. E. MOORE

W. T. COVINGTON Cc, C. MURCHISON
W.'T. DAVIS R. B, PARKER

C. M. EDDINGTON E. K. REGEN

F, T. FRANKLIN J. B. THOMPSON

L. L. DECK W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

Happy New Year!
D
1925 is with us for better or for worse, so
let’s make the most of it. The Class of ’25
has only five more months on the hill, the

conclusion of four years of good fellowship
and happiness.

ae

Now that Trinity College is no more, the |

jinx which the Blue Devils have placed on
the Wildcats may he broken. The Wildcats

broke the jinx Turkey Day, but Duke Uni- |

versity should prove easier to beat than
Trinity College. A change will do the Wild-
cats some good, anyway.

By winning the finals of the Junior-Sen-
ior debate just before the holidays, the Pan-
deinics kept their Junior-Senior debating
record clean, Since its foundation in 1922
the Pandeinic Society has won every Junior-
Senior debate.

D:

Two weeks of holidays are over, but a
large part of the Senior Class is expecting
another ten-day period of rest from the
cares of school work. It takes a grade of 85
to be excused, and the next two weeks will
tell the tale. Work hard and earn the re-
ward. Good luck, Seniors.

D
The 1925 basketball schedule contains
three games, the most comprehensive

schedule a Wildcat quint has undertaken in
many years. Carolina will be met for the

THE DAVIDEGNLAN, JANUARY 8, 1925

Open Forum

(This department is conducted by the editor, for the
benefit of those bers of the t body, or faculty,
who desire to express their opinions on any matter which
might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of
the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted
for the betterment of campus life, and that the students

| will express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted |
The names of the writers

will be withheld from publication, if such is the desire of |
All articles must be handed in to the Editor |

discussion on campus problems.

the writer.

of The Davidsonian by 7:00 p. m. Monday.)

THE PICTURE SHOWS

A few weeks ago an article appeared in this

| column of the Davidsonian which bore a com-

plaint concerning the noise and unnecessary dis-
turbance which was prevalent at the picture
shows at the gymnasium Saturday night. This
article stated that the noise was annoying and
that it disturbed many patrons, especially the
ladies.

Why could not the motion picture shows be
held in the auditorium of the local high school?
There is ample seating room in that auditorium—
a place where it could be kept under lock, and
would really be safer than at the gymnasium. It
is the belief of many with whom the writer has
talked that this would put an end to all such
noises as the shooting of fireworks and the
creating of other disturbances which at present
keep many people from attending shows which
they would enjoy seeing.

Then, too, there are no adequate seats at the
gymnasium for the ladies to sit upon after they
come to the show. If the pictures were shown
at the school building there would be plenty of
seats and the crowd would be much more orderly.

The Y. M. C. A. would undoubtedly profit by
the change, for it would have a much larger num-
ber of customers. This would enable them to
let the school make a small profit for the use
of the building, and would also add to the treas-
ury of the “Y.”

G. M.

THE FINAL GRIND

ae: weeks from today, the mid-term
examinations commence, and con-
tinue for ten days. Although work
throughout the whole term is of supreme
importance, work during the final days will
count heavily toward the preparation for
the ensuing test.

Upon the term’s work depeiids the success
with which the student meets the mid-term
test. To those who succeed, there remains a
future at Davidson, but there are always a
few who realize too late that successful
scholastic work is the first requirement of
college, There is no place at Davidson for

| the man who fails to pass his work.

Before the examinations come the last
series of monthly tests, the best prepara-
tion possible for the more severe tests of
the following weeks. Seniors who pass the
final preliminaries with flying colors will be
exempted from the examinations. Two
weeks more of hard work, and ten days of
harder work will wind up the first semester
of the year 1924-25. :

May the student body pass through the
tests and enter on the second half year with
its ranks still filled. Hard work is all that
is needed to win success.

THE DUKE BEQUEST

The forty million dollar donation of Mr.
J. B. Duke to the cause of education in the
Carolinas, is the largest gift to education
ever made in the South, and one of the
largest in the history of the United States.
By his gift Mr. Duke is enabling the col-
leges benefited to increase their equipment
and efficiency.

The North is always slow to recognize
Southern institutions. and work along every
line, and education is no exception. South-
ern institutions as a whole have pitifully in-
adequate equipment as compared with the
leading Northern colleges, but with the

| growing commercial development and pros-~
| perity in the South, this state of affairs is

| tional “custom of a class rush,

| say, “Is he a Ministerial student? Why

CLASS RUSHES

“Freshman Flag Flies in Defiance of Sophs” is
| the headline that The Technique (Georgia Tech)
| carries over a news story of a recent occurance
in that school. Editorially the paper condemned
the freshmen for their lack of college spirit in
such an over-abundance of .class pep (“selfish-
| ness”) but still it seems that the incident carries
some element of importance to the Davidson
students.

Not that we are afraid of any sucly occurance
at Davidson. Not in a school that lets its foot-
ball team go away for the Thanksgiving football
game without even a semblance of a send-off at
the railway station. Not in a school-that allows
the same team to return after winning a great
victory without any reception.

Nor in a fresh class that is in any way related
to last year’s which so meekly bowed to a humili-

| ating ceremony as their numerals were painted

over on the college water tank.
Does nof the occurance show that there should

| be some means. of outlet for the spirit that that

theoretically
head?

gradually gradually comes to a

In many of the larger schools and universities
of the East and Mid-West (and for all we know
throughout the entire country) there is a tradi-
Immediately this
brings the condemnation of Hundreds of the
Davidson students as being “too much like a

prep school,” Far from it. For who can call
Northwestern a prep school? or Illinois?

A MINISTERIAL STUDENT

What is one anyhow? Well, at any rate,

they are human beings and if you intimately ,

associate with one you'd soon discover this.

What excuse is there for an Open Forum
article on this subject ?
on Davidson campus for the last four years
I’ve heard that the Ministerial candidates
were a*bum lot of fellows ;that in this band,
composed of many leading men of the four
classes who have decided to devote their
lives to full-time Gospel service, there are
many men who are hypocrites, that they
don’t know what they’re doing, and further-
more they don’t care. Is this the real truth?
Is there an element of truth in the above ac-

cusation ?—Impossible.

What do you,think a Ministerial student
should be? Well, too many of us think that
one should be a Yong-faced, reserved being
without feelings—who should not associate
with “the sinful horde” and whose life is
never cenlifhtened with beautiful gay
thoughts and in whose soul there is “no
guile, no joy,” no fun, nor no nothing. If
this be your standard—then you'll always
he disappointed.

Of course a Ministerial student should be
a conscientious, thoughtful Christian and a
“real fellow” as well. It seems that we have
by some ridiculous way arrived at the con-

clusion that a Ministerial student should be |

unlike the other men. What’s wrong for
anyone is wrong for a Ministerial student—
and vice versa,

I believe that a Ministerial student should
always be like other men unless the other
men are wrong; that the stinging criticism
of this band of men is unjust and decidedly
uncalled for, and furthermore, is entirely
false.

I-very day I hear some pure, innocent soul
he’s

no better than Tam.” Why should he be?

| We cannot rightfully establish a double set
| of morals,

In our criticism of our fellow students
let us be fair and honest.

position to judge them so harshly; for, in
judging this set of men we are judging the
men who make the “great Davidson Spirit”

| possible and the men who are working for

the cause for which this college

A.C.R.

was

Well, the fact is— |

Let us apply to |
| ourselves the standard we use in measuring
the Ministerial Band and see if we are in a |

Chaff

Santa Claus
What neckties are committed in thy name, and
what cigars!

Father's Prayer
Christmas comes but once a year.—Amen.

From the looks of most members of the stu-
dent body, Santa certainly had a large stock of
loud socks, shirts, sweathers, neckties, handkys,
and the like.

The Kitchen Mechanic
Bub Oeland will now drive us insane with his

charming little agonizer, called: “My Swedie
went away.”

“Ah, Mary, you're just as beautiful as you ever
were and I have never forgotten you.”

“And you, Flake, are just as big a liar as ever
and I believe you just the same.”

Our Monthly Book Review

For the month of January our celebrated
author, P. Cladius Birdsong, has written a play
a tragedy—in one act. This has been passed by
the National Board of Review and the Committee
on Attendance of the Lion Tamers’ Club; there-
fore, we deem it worthy of the honor to decorate
the columns of our most extinguished periodicals.
Tt follows:

BILLS IS BILLS

A Tragedy in One Act
By Will Billiams

Scene: A modern office, one-man type, on the

thirty-umpth story of the South Carolina Sar-
dine Trust Company Building, located at Corn-
tassele’s Landing, S. C.
. (As the curtain rises I. M. Broke, vice-president
and general janitor of the Big Boston Baked
Bean Beanery, takes his seat at a desk which is
piled high with papers. Broke busies himself
with some papers as the postman enters).

Postman: “God morning, sir. You seem to
have quite a large correspondence lately.” (Hands
Broke a bunch of letters and walks out).

Broke: “Yes, I have lots of correspondence,
but it is all one-sided. These are nothing but
bills, bills, BILLS.”

Enter two collectors as telephone rings. Before
cither can be answered a Western Union ‘boy
hands him a telegram from Hardboiled & Son, re-
questing the payment of their bill at once. An-
swering the telephone, he finds out that the gas
company is on its way to his home to get the
meter, Upon looking up again, Broke sees three
more men enter with bills in their hands as
the stenographer comes in to remind him that
it is the first of the month. Taking a hop, skip and
a jump from his seat, he goes through the win-
dow, head first, taking the whole sash with him.
Above the sound of the shattering of the glass is
heard the song, “In the Sweet Bye and Bye,” as
sung by a bankrupt.

Curtain.

Moral: Don’t feed an alligator peanut hulls,
because ice isn’t always what it’s cracked up
to be.

The Purple Book

With Apologies to the Blue Book

The following has been copied from the Purple
Book for the benefit of those students who are
always bumming their way home, All who use
this to advantage will kindly pay the Society
Editor one dollar and fourteen cents in German
marks,

National Highway No. 496853.
State Highway No. 26.
Miles designation.

00.0 Leave Jaybirdsville, travelling in a general
direction till you come to a cross-roads.
any of the four that you want to—just
keep moving.

Town of Sedberry’s
around = stumps
Straight ahead.

City of Hate. This is where Piggy Martin
lives, but you can’t help‘it. Turn with the

Detour
obstacles.

09.6 Junction.

and other

4063.8

rapidly changing. road. Don’t try to knock it down, as it

first time in several years, and a Virginia
trip will be undertaken. The speedy Wild-
cat quint is in the race for State honors as
a dark horse, Carolina and Wake Forest be-
ing the favorites.

D

The Davidsonian, has no New Year’s reso- |

lutions to make. 1924 is gone and 1925 is
here, but the old world is rocking along just
the same. We have attempted to give the
news of Davidson College to our subscribers,
and to give them the best possible service,
We are not one hundred per cent perfect;
we have made mistakes which we hope have

en brenrectified... Mur aim during the coming

year as during thé past year is to give serv-

' ice and to keep The Davidsonian “The Livest

** Wire on the Hill.” . :

|
|
|
| founded.
|
|

Weather men and scientific journals bring re-

_ Mr. Duke’s bequest will do more to place
Southern schools on a higher plane than any

| development of recent years. Duke Univer-

sity will remain as a monument to his benefi-
cence, and as a proof that the South is un-
willing to remain in the background. No
longer will the North be able to laugh at
Southern education. Despite the lack of

| culture which is claimed as an attribute of

the South, no section of the country, can
boast of more eloquent orators or more
gifted speakers than the Southland.

With equal educational factilities and ‘ad-
vantages, there is no limit to the possibil-
ities of the South. Mr. Duke will long be
remembered as the man, who above all
others helped the cause of Southern educa-

tion. Money. is_by no means the greatest”

thing in life, but money,/used properly and
unselfishly for the benefit of humanity, can
accomplish wonders. ;

ports that the winter of 1925 will be one of the
coldest of recent years. No doubt with the low
temperature will come an unusual amount of
snow.

What is to be the policy of the Davidson stu-
dent body as regards this chance for turning
some of our spirit into healthy exercise? Last
year the only thing done with the snow besides
a little individual snow-balling was the trampling
of it into the dormitories? This will no doubt
continue forever. |

However, at Dartmouth the whole college lives
for a week almost in the snow. A winter festival
is had with skiing, ice-skating and all other
forms of out-of-doors sports.

This is hardly practicable at Davidson but per-
haps the custom of the University of North Car-
volina of seVéiwi ‘Datties between the freshmen
and sophomore classes might be adopted. Cer-
tainly Carolina is no more a prep school than
Davidson. Great times are had down there from

has as yet been found to be indestructable.
State of Exhaustion. Hamlet of Tannery
Flats. Keep your eye peeled for Buster
Lawson. He’s the speed cop and the chief
bootlegger. Don’t stop unless you want
to buy, but if you get hauled up for
speeding, just say, “How about a quart?”
This has never failed to work. Keep mov-
ing.

After a careful study of the surrounding
animals and country, it will be noticed
that in the hazy distance is the old red
barn. Rest of the way—No instructions
neded.

196.7

43.1

the time the first flakes begin to fall until it’s
all over,

“Perhaps it wight bring some enjoyment here,

develop some spirit among the student body and
create some excitement among the students.
L. D. W., Jr.
