THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 16, 1925

Library News

The Beauty of William
Stearns Davis.

“This romance attempts to show forth
something of the brilliancy, magnificence
and teeming life of Christian Constantinople
in an age when London and Paris were little
better than squalid villages. It also tries to
tell the story of the rise and the mighty deeds
of Leo the Isaurian, that peasant youth who
saved Constantinople and the Later Roman
Empire from the Saracens, and thereby post-
poned for seven hundred years the extension
of Moslem supremacy in the Eear East.”—
From the Introduction.

Pascal D'Angelo, Son of Italy.

the Purple, by

“It is the record of enormous struggles
against every disadvantage. . Some incal-
culable chance had put the soul of a poet in
the body of an Italian boy whose parents
could not read or write and who came into
no heritage but the family tradition of hope-
less labor. To this was added the further
complication that he had to leave his native
country for another, there to master an alien
tongue and employ it for his .utterance.
That he gradually overcome his obstacles
makes his career one of the most thrilling
episodes in American literature.’—From the
Introduction.

Clemson
match here

defeated in a
Thursday, only one singles

was easily

match being lost to the Tigers.

SODA :

[pasaasscscascaascsassessssessssascasassaaassseagesseseas

Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.

PARKER COLLEGE FOUNTIN PENS
AND

A SERVICE THAT CARRIES THE ENTHUSIASM
OF A CLASS RUSH

Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.

201 North Tryon St.

Davidson Debaters Have

Two More Big Contests.

In Shearer Hall, at 8:00 o'clock, next Fri-

day night, Davidson meets Presbyterian Col-
lege in an intercollegiate debate. One weck

later another Wildcat team debates the rep- |

resentatives of Wake Forest. This will take
place in the auditorium of Queens College,
in Charlotte.

The subject of both debates is the same,
Resolved, That Congress should be empow-
cred to override by a two-thirds vote the de-
cisions of the Supreme Court declaring the
acts of Congress unconstitutional.” In’ the
first debate, Davidson has the affirmative, in
the latter the negative.

On next Monday night theese two Wildcat
teams will try their skill against each other.
It is expected that this practice contest will
prove of much benefit to the debaters in their
preparation for refuting the arguments of
their apponents,

In the debate with P. C., Davidson will be
represented by Martin, Ratchford and Shaw.
They will speak in the order named.
three of these men are experienced men in
forensic lines. Martin has been an outstand-
ing figure in literary society work. Ratch-
ford and Shaw are both members of Alpha
Phi Epsilon,

The Wildcat debaters against Wake For-
est will be Parker, Bowie and Wharton.
They will take the floor in the order men-
tioned. These men have had much experi-
ence in debating and literary work since they

al

ri)

CIGARS

NONE TOO SMALL

R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President

We Want Y.ur Account Regardless of Its Size

The Commercial National Bank

Charlotte, N. C.

Capital, Surplus, Ete., Over $1,200,000.00

NONE TOO LARGE

x

I, W. STEWART Cashier and Trust Office
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Trust Officer
T.S.McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier

tailored in the ENG

-TO ORDER
$29.50

“MADE IN THE ENGLISH WAY”

Watch for Exhibits

of our correctly qouaned MEN’S CLOTHES carefully
ISH FASHION from DISTINC-
TIVE IMPORTED and DOMESTIC FABRICS.

You will serve your pocket book as well as your
wardrobe if we make your.next suit.

“Where The Styles Start From”

“MADE IN THE ENGLISH WAY”

TO ORDER
$29.50

All.

‘New Y.M.C.A. Officers
and Cabinet Installed
at” Vesper Meeting

Harry Price, Riding President,
Welcomes New Officers in
Inspiring Address

The installation of new officers and the
new cabinet was carried out in an impressive

Scholarships to Rhodes

Will be Announced Soon

An announcement fits ti recently been made
that the 1925 election of Rhodes Scholars
will be held on the 12th of December. All
applications must be made by the 24th of
October since a good deal of investigation
must be made before the appointments are
announced, The scholars so elected will en-
ter Oxford in October, 1925. Of the states

service Sunday evening at the Y. M. C. A. represented at Davidson, the following will
vespers, hold elections: Florida, Kentucky, North

Harry Price, the retiring president, wel-) Carolina, Souths Carolina, Tennessee, Vir-
comed the new president; and his fellow- | ginia, and West Virginia.

He wished them all of the success
possible, and gave a few suggestions as to
how work might be furthered in the future.
He expressed his sincere appreciation for the
co-operation and faithful work of his cabi-
net, to whom is due thanks for the success
of the past year,

Professor Fleagle presented a challenge to
the new cabinet. He used the story of Jacob
and Esau as an illustration, saying that we

workers.

work for the Y. M. C. A. He said that it is

an honor to have been chosen to serve on the |

cabinet, but who among them will sell his
birthright? Esau's thought was that he was
hungry, and what good was a birthright if he
died of hunger? So, how many of the new
cabinet will turn their backs on the duties
of their offices, and sell their birthright ?

J. P. Williams, General Secretary of the |

Y. M. Co"A,, gave the charge to the new
officers and cabinet. He pledged them to,
give their honest and highest capable efforts |
to the service of Christ through the Y. M./
C. A. for the following year.

Hayden Hollingsworth, the new president, |
made a splendid address on the indebtedness

,of Davidson men to the past, present, future, |

and Christ. “We are all familiar,” he said,

have a birthright, a heritage, in the chance to |

A Rhodes Scholarship is tenable for three
years and the stipend is three hundred and
fifty pounds a year. Moreover, no restriction
is placed on the choice of studies. To be
eligible a candidate must be an unmarried
male citizen of the United States between
| the ages of 19 and 25. He must also have
completed his:Sophomore year at college. A
candidate is not chosen simply for the sake
of his scholastic ability. His manhood,
of character, leadership and athletic ability
are also considered to a large extent. The
appointments are made without examination
on the basis the applicants’ at
college. 2

Any one who is interested and would like
to obtain further may get it
} from Dr. T. W. Lingle, or from the secre-
| tary of the selection committee of this state,
| President H. S. Hilley, Wilson, N.C. This
lis the premier’ college scholarship in’ the
| United States, so that any student who has a
| desire for higher learning should investigate
the matter more closely, One of Davidson's
alumni holds one of the scholarships at the
present time,

force

of record

information

to attend both debates. Neither of the de-
bates will be casily won and the Wildeat rep-

“with the passage in John where Christ was resentatives will need much support from the

“Mutt” is also a member of Beta Pi. He
is a hard worker and will make a use-
ful and capable right-hand man for
“Bob.” :

“Rod” MacRae hails from Laurinburg,
N. C., where he, too, was a leader in all
school activities. He is very popular
here at Davidson, where he is recognized
as an excellent speaker and as a leader,
in general, among his classmates. He is
a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Fraternity. Without a doubt, “Rod” will
very capably fill the office of Secretary
and Treasurer.

SANITY RARE SCORES

(Continued from page 1)
magazine is “The Pipes of Pan,” a poem
by Fred Smith, illustrated by Kenneth
Harris. Both poem and full page illus-
tration are very good, and have received
much favorable comment from the stu-
dents and visitors. The other good con-
tributions are too numerous to mention
in detail, and all who had a hand in its
publication are to be congratulated on
the good work. :

The rising Junior class would do well
to fashion their magazine after the ef-
forts of the present Junior class.

Additional copies of “Sanity Rare” may
be obtained from the business manager
for a small sum.

JUNIOR SPEAKING

Continued from page 6)
Ae 83 in charge of refresh-
ment booth,
KE, kK. Regen in charge of ball throwing
booth.
Uo NL,
as Voodoo the
A. B. Williford in charge of the fish
pond,

Lawson

Appleby in charge of and acted

Hoodoo.

talking to His disciples and asked, ‘Will ye}
jalso go away?’ Peter asked, ‘To whom shall
we go? Thou hast the eternal |
life. We know and are sure that thou art
the Christ, the Son of the living God. 1
think it was such a knowledge of Christ that
Paul had in mind when he said, ‘I am delftor.’

words of

He felt he shohuld give his life to pay the |

debt. |
“My message tonight concerns our debt |
;and how we are going to pay it. First of |

all, we are debtors to those who have gone |
| before. Tonight throughout the world there |

lare sons of Davidson who have left to us a!

| priceless heritage. They have given their

‘all to make Davidson a place where the

name of Christ is above every name. Among |

| those who have gone before we are debtors
\to the retiring cabinet,
| have done and the splendid example they
| have set.

“We are also debtors to those who are
| here now.
| fellow-students in making ourives count for

the best possible influence for them. It is
| not what we are going to do ten years from!
| now in business,. the ministry, or on a mis-

| sion ficeld—it is what we are going to do)

| here in the market place that will count.

“We are debtors to those who are to come. |
| I am thinking tonight of more than two hun- |,
\dred and fifty young men throughout the |
| Southland who are dreaming dreams of Da- |

| vidson. I am thinking of the Freshmen who
| are to come and of the ideals they have.
| They are dreamin of athletic teams sweep-
|ing down the field to victory.
| dreams come true, but we are debtors to them
to let them know of that victory which over-
|comes the world, even our faith Jesus
| Christ.

| “Above all else we are debtors to Jesus
Christ.
Christ into a sin-cursed world.

in

to give his life to pay the debt.
Easter Sunday may we hear the echo from
the tomb, ‘Lo! He is not here—He is risen.’
Easter stands for a fact. The fact that faith
/is more vital than doubt;
| lasting than fear;
death. In the twilight of this Easter day
may we stand «beneath the shadow of the
cross and say, ‘Lord, thy will be done, take
| my life and use me to pay the debt.’”
“Piggy” Martin was the leader.
was offered by E.
B. Gibbs. Special music was rendered by)
Martin’s quartet, with J. R. McCravey, J. R.|

Tally, J. S. Grey, and W. W. Purdy accor

panying the songs of the evening.

| have been at Davidson and are expected to
present winning arguments when they jour-
| ney to the Queen City. All three are mem-
bers of Alpha Phi Epsilon.

After the debate on next Friday there will

be given a reception for the debaters, by the

forensic council and Alpha Phi Epsilon for-

| ensic fraternity.

A large number of students are expected

for the work they |

We have a debt to pay to our |

May their |

God gave all He had when He sent |
It was the}
knowledge of God's gift that spurred Paul |
On this |

that hope is more.
that love is stronger than |

Prayer |
L. Hollingsworth and L.

audience. Glenn Edington had charge of the for-

tune teller’s booth,

BOB McMILLAN WILL: LEAD ]0"1,. yarkers were Logan Lovelace, Ed.
| (Continued from page 1) O'Neal, Sid Jones, Speight Adams, Ben
Franklin.

ee lines: since coming to Davidson,

EAT AT

THE ASTOR LUNCH
SERVICE

+
| THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N. C.

| Only 1 in 5 have faced these facts---that fifteen million

| motor vehicles are registered in America, and of these,

figures show that only one out of five is protected by an

automobile liability policy.

What of the other four of every five ?

McALISTER CARSON, Mgr. (13)

Independence Trust Company

| Insurance Department
Charlotte, N. C.

Belk Bros. Co.

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Are offering some exceptional values in Col-

lege Men’s Suits with one and two pairs of
Pants, made in this season’s newest models 4
$19.95, $25.00,
$29.50, $35.00 and $39.50. Would pay

you to come to Charlotte and see them.

BELK BROS.

and colors on sale at:

