8

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 19, 1925

Forensic Council Has
Selected Debate Topics

December srd Date Date for Junior-
Senior Contest—While. Fresh-
Soph Will be Soon

The Forensic Council has arranged the de-
bating schedule of this year differently from
that of? last year. Instead of having the
Fresh-Soph debates in the spring it is hold-
ing them in thgpiall. This is done so that
new material may be prepared for varsity
debaters. The Freshman material is to be
prepared through the medium of the four
literary societies. By preliminaries to be
held in the coming two wecks each society
will determine its best Freshman and Sopho-
more material for its debating team. Then
the societies will stage debates between their
teams, which debates will be considered as
the semi-finals. The Philanthropic and the
Pandeinic societies, taking the affirmative
side of the question, will debate the Eu-
menean and Metrophilian societies, respec-
tively. These debates will be held Decem-
ber Ist. The final debate between the two
winning teams will be held during the sec-
ond week of December.

The question is, “Resolved, That Anterjca
Should Cancel the War Debts of Her AI-
lies.” Material has been placed in the de-
bate room of the library. There seems to
be quite a good bit of material this year
from which to choose, not only the Fresh-
man debaters, but also the Sophomore de-
baters. The entire Freshman team of last
year, excepting one alternate, is back again
this year.

The subject that has been chosen by the
Forensic Council the annual Junior-
Senior debating meet, which will be held in
the near future, “Resolved, That the
United States the World
Court.” This subject is the vital topic of
discussion throughout the nation today. On
December 17th the United States Senates
will yote as to whether this country will or
will not cast her lot with other leading na-
tions in this Court of Permanent Justice.

Last week the preliminaries of two of the
literary societies were held, and the team
members given below were selected. The
other two socicties will stage their prelimi-
naries some time this. week for the selection
of their team.

Philanthropic, with team of C. G. Davis,
J. C. Barrington and A. B. Williford, will
uphold the affirmative in the semi-finals to
be held on November 24th, against the nega-
tive team of the Eumenean society, composed
of T. C. Barr, W. A. Christian, and T. G.
McCutcheon. The affirmative team of the
Pandeinic society will clash with the nega-
tive defenders for the Metrophilian in the
semi-finals. These team members will be
given in the next issue of The Davidsonian,
as the preliminaries for each have not yet
been held.

for

Is:

should — enter

The finals, to be between the two winners, |

are scheduled for December 3rd.

We cannot exactly agree with one
sport writer that McMurray, end of Car-
olina, played a good game Saturday, for |
Davidson gained a matter of 120 yards |

around the flank positions of the Tar,

Heels. The day before the game a write-
up from Chapel Hill said that no team
hadgained around their ends. They can-
not say that now. More praise is due
to the Davidson ends, for Carolina only
gained one yard that way.

IMPERIAL

Charlotte, N. C.
MON., TUES., WED.

“THE KING ON
MAIN STREET”

WITH
ADOLPHE MENJOU
GRETA NISSEN
BESSIE LOVE

THUR., FRI., SAT.

GLORIA SWANSON

o--INeo-
“STAGE
STRUCK”

_A Paramount Picture

‘Doughty Sea-Dogs Journey to Press
Conclave Aboard Sea-Worthy Craft

By C. F. C.F. S.

With a mighty swish of waves and tugging

mooring the good ship “Helen
Maria” steamed out of the port of Davidson
last Thursday morning with a full cargo of
suitcases and delegates consigned to the
tenth semi-annual. conclave of the North
Carolina Collegiate Press Convention at the
good harbor of Chapel Hill. No ringing of
bells tended her sailing, nor was a band of
brass on the wharf to toot a bon voyage, but
the good ship crested the foam ‘midst rain
and November spray.

of ropes,

The vessel aboye referred to was none
other than a product of Henry Ford's fac-
tory in the guise of a clipper of the whaling
days. She was rigged fore and aft with
seven young Davidsonians who were ap-
pointed delegates to the mect at the seat of
Carolina’s learning. Those young men who
composed the crew of the schooner were:
Harold “Hotsy-Totsy” Bruke, skipper; Fred
Smith, first mate; Harllee Branch, coxswain ;
“Shorty” ‘Wilson, purser; Ernest Milton.
second mate; and Wood Brown, crew.

Before the appointed hour for sailing, a
fresh bottle of Atlanta's Pride was broken
over the bow, also an underslung pipe of the
Dawes type. Thereupon, she was christened
“Helen Maria’ and a shouting of the old
sea-dogs ensued. The anchor was weighed
and was found to contain exactly 43 pounds.
She was off for Carolina!

Thursday was a good day for rain and the
seas were a trifle rough. None of the pas-
sengers nor crew became seasick in spite of
the fact that the boat was headed right into
the teeth of the galé and she shipped a
mountain of water on the corners. Along
one particular bad stretch of sea the waves
were so high that lots were cast to throw a
man overboard, but the sun came out and he
was reserved for future use.

The voyage lay over the familiar route
through Salisbury; High Point, where all
the inhabitants sit in chairs; and through
Greensboro, the Girl City the South.
Thence on to Chapel Hill through several
small ports where the good ship stopped at
several coaling stations to take on fuel. The
port of Chapel Hill was reached ere the
shades of night had fallen in the windows.

The Publications Union of Carolina had
certainly bestowed their blessings upon the
| program for it was crammed with entertain-
ment and diversion from stem to stern.
Meals were arrnaged for in the big hall of
Swain, where the elite of Carolina eat. Two
dances were given, one by the Thirteen Club
and the other by the Order of the Grail.
| The high light of the whole cruise, though,
was the big banquet given at the Carolina
Inn. There the joy. was spread on thick as
meaningless phrases on the tongue of Andrew
Gump.

The regular program opened with a rip
and a snort. The address by Mr. Keener,
of the Durham Herald, showed up many on
|the interesting insides of the newspaper
|game. President Moore put across a hot
line concerning the freedom of the college
| press, which all delegates present heartily
endorsed. A trip to the class in journalism,
taught by Prof. Gerald Johnston, was inter-
esting to those who went all the rounds.

Of girls there was an abundance, and they
were of that variety of feminity that goes by
the common adjective of pulchritudinous.
Every one of them good-looking, and if it
had not been for the variable rushing of the
Carolina boys, the masculine delegates would
have scored a hundred per cent in looking
|after and tending to the wants of the fair
| visitors. They hailed from most all the girls’
| colleges of the state, and they reigned. su-
| preme during their stay. The boys showered
|a few compliments themselves. They were
}on hand to take the girl delegates to the
| feeds, banquets, dances and rides, etc.

The entire delegation attended the game
| Saturday afternoon and watched the Wild-
cats outplay the Tar Heels, only to get beat-
en. It is a safe estimate to say that three-
fourths of the girls pulled for the Red and
Black (Red Laird and Wick Black).
| The grand hop in Swain Hall Saturday
| eve was a big success from a crowded stand-
|point. When a couple started doing the
| Charleston, the whole she-bang surged over
the breakers and left the plain dancers to
thir fate. Everyone was gloriously happy
and theré was no disorderliness.

The Convention was over in the afternoon,
and the homeward journey was started. The
Helen Maria was loaded to the gunwales and
the mizzen-mast flecked with bunting. Hotsy-
Totsy Burke led the rah-rahs and the harbor
was steamed outen.

The entire crew pressed forwards, and the

of

ship made good time until she got to Durham
and through some mishap or tother, she

male directly in front of the co-ed building
of Duke University. The same accident hap-
pened at G. C. W. and N. C. C. W. At the
last place, several hours were needed to
straighten the rudder and the propellors so
that quick time could be made on the home
stretch.

The voyage from Greensboro to the Gate
City of northern Mecklenburg County was
made without mishap in spite of the heavy
seas which threatened to swamp the upper
decks at variqus times. No further adven-
tures were met until the fleet neared Moores-
ville, where a rabbit tried to commit suicide
in a fit of despondency and threw himself in
front of the bow of the schooner. A rabbit
hunt was engaged in for several minutes, but
it is still believed that the bunny crawled
away and died out of spite, as he could not
be found,

Davidson was finally reached and the crew
crew loud over their cruise. All hands were
out to swab the deck with a hearty “aye-aye,
sir,” and to await the next meeting of the
association at Guilford next spring.

TARHEELS ANNEX STATE

(Continued from page 1)
to win football games. It had a reserve

strength and it had a heavier battering |

ram when it needed a battering ram to
crumble the-defences of the. unfaltering
Srarernny ie Davidson has nothing to
be ashamed of in its defeat, and more to
be proud of than any team that ever left
the field the loser.

Time after time the Wildcats took the
game into their own hands. Time after
time they swept over and around and
through the bewildered Tar Heels in
dazzling manetivdrs that brought the
eight thousand spectators to their feet
breathless.
ened to smash through the Carolina de-
And almost they succeeded, but
when the crisis came somehow Carolina
gathered itself together and held them
half way through the first quarter, with
a touchdown lead to overcome. David-
son assumed the offensive when Hendrix
went around Carolina’s right end for 34
yards. On the next play Wells went
around the other end for 17 yards, and

fences,

Hendrix smashed the line for a gain of |

ten yards. Carolina began to stiffen with-
in its tengyard line, and the next play
netted Davidson only five yards. The
next was reduced to two yards, and on
the next Davidson lost a yard, as the
quarter: ended.

The line held and in three downs Da-
vidson gained nothing. Kicking a field
goal would have been child’s play, but
the Wildcats did not come to Emerson
field for a field goal victory. A forward
Pass was grounded and Carolina, to the
great relief of its partizans, kicked the
ball out of harm’s way. Then came the
first of the major breaks. The punted
ball hit a Davidson runner, and Carolina
claimed the ball on Davidson’s 45 yard
line.

The Wildcats held and Carolina was
forced to kick. Again they began a ter-
rible drive toward the Carolina goal line,
plunging through for gains through
tackle. Carolina stiffened again and Da-
vidson lost the ball on downs, still scorn-
ing to try for a field goal. An aerial
punting duel ensued which gained Caro-
lina nothing. The Tar Heels then un-
lashed their major offensive of the game,
opening with a forward pass that netted
11 yards.

Carolina massed its offensive, boring
and blasting its way through the David-
son line until a 19 yard pass sent Un-
derwood over the line for the second
touchdown of the game. The Fayetteville
youth kicked goal and the score stood
at 13 too. The quarter ended with Da-
vidson beginning a new offensive that
was well under way as the whistle blew.

Davidson’s very eagerness to get into
the play cost it the first touchdown. Da-
vidson kicked and Bonner fumbled it on
the ' return.
second line plunge and Carolina recover-
ed. Three offside penalties brought the
ball to the 20 yard line. Bonner, Spar-
row and Underwood, drilling and blast-
ing through the line, scored the first
touchdown within three minutes of the
initial kickoff. Sparrow failed to kick
goal.

In the second quarter the’ Wildcats
harried the heavier and slower Tar Heels,
snapping forever at them, threatening
with a bewilderingly versatile attack, dar-
ing at anything and when one thing fail-

ed, trying-another. The went through

Time after time they threat- |
|menace of the Wildcats.

Hendrix fumbled on the |

the lines.
They loosed forward passes. But always
Carolina erected an impregnable defense
when Davidson came withing striking
distance of their goal. And Davidson
scorned anything less than a touchdown.
All the way through they played for the
game.

Carolina held them, and kicked. David-
son would be back at them but Carolina
made no major bid for a score in the
second half. It tried the Wildcat line,
but without consistent gains. The Wild-
cat ends somehow swept around the
scrimmage and nailed. them from the
rear. ‘One Melton shot through and nail-
ed Underwood in his tracks as he was
about to pass the ball over the line. It
was the most brilliant tackle of the game.

Hendrix, Black and Wells threatened
until the last moment of the play rippiig

through the Tar Heel defenses. It seem-

ed almost inevitable that-Hendrix would ; Wilson did the best work in the line.On
eventually get clear, and a dozen time he | ;

was within an inch of it, but Carolina’s
backs and ends always got their man be-
fore irreparable damage had been done.
McIver at center, was telling factor in
the day’s defensive playing.

They swept its ends for gains. |

Tn the matter of first downs Davidson’

had the edge over the Tar Heels regis-
tering 13 against their 9. In the matter
of forward passes Davidson was the more |
daring, attempting 14, completing six and
gaining 43 yards by them. Two of the
Wildcats passes were intercepted. Caro-

| vin,

bit, J. Gray, Laws. Carolina—Ferrell, De-
Curlee, Cobb, Hackney.

DAVIDSON HIGH DOWNS
TROUTMAN

The Davidson High School football
team defeated Troutman High in a game
that was full of fight on Richardson field
last Tuesday afternon. The score was
12 to o. At the end of the first half the
score was zero for both sides, The whole
half had been just an exchange of punts.
Troutman had managed to get two first
downs; Davidson did not put over a first
down in the first half.

At the beginning of the second half
Davidson High opened an aerial attack
and scored a touchdown by making a
straight march down the field. The
whole backfield featured in the passes.

the twenty-yard line Johnson threw a
ten yard pass to Fiddler who eluded two
Troutman men and then went the re-
maining ten yards to the goal with two
oher fellows hanging on to him. John-
son failed to kick goal. In the fourth.
quarter Davidson march down the field
but was held for downs on the two-yard
jline. In an effort to punt to safety the

| Troutman was slow in getting the ball

lina gained 37 yards with three of its |

seven passes atempted. Carolina lost
five yards on off side penalties while Da-
vidson lost 29. There were no penalties
for other offenses. There were no other
infractions of the rules.

As a spectacle this was the wfeateat
game that anybody remembers secing on
‘this field. Carolina--won. it cleanly and
decisively, because Napoleon was no
doubt right when he declared that God
fights on the side of the heaviest bat-
talions. It was never free from the
Carolina might
be argued out of its first touchdown but
the second they won by a superior at-

| tack, or at any rate by a heavier attack,

and an ability
Wildcats. Davidson was defeated but |
not whipped.—Ben Dixon MacNeill, Staff
Correspondent for the Raleigh News and
Observer,

Davidson Position Carolina
Einkneyeeessesees 1 by) Dy eeenpera, McMurray
Ritchie ~----_____ | Bil Wesceeintis Morehead
Vance ._ Braswell

--- McIver

Melton AGi es Bes Whisnant |
Baketiescecszsee2 RM coleeske Robinson
Arrowood RE Dodderer
Hendrix —--._- Quarter --___-_ Sparrow
Wells - = IL sl, Bonner
RiaGray, ssesencc= tS eee Underwood
Black - F.B. --- Shuford
Substitutions: Davidson — McComb,
Farrell, Hewlett, Bohanon, Laird, Nes-

QUALITY

to ,maintain a sustained |
| defensive, even against the lightning fast |

off and it was blocked. J. D. McConnell
caught the ball, making the second
touchdown, Muchachos dropkicked for
the extra point but the ball missed the
upright by inches. Davidson made seven
first downs to Troutman’s three,

The line-up is as follows:

Davidson High (12) Positiontatatart

D. High (12) Position Troutman (0)
Henderson -.---- DB cts sees Suther
HUtGiewewesccece oils soewlroutinanie is
Williamson - Sherrill, J.
Donaldson ~---- Center ----------- Kyles
MacConnell, C, --R.G. --------- Manesss
Wilbonedeuccuuuss Rule cane sunouttmnaninhy
Muchachos ---.--- RIB esse! Suther, K.
MacConnell, J.D. Q.B. --- - Cornelius
Gudger ~---------- VRE ewscece Brown, S.
Mooney ---------- RE See esas Loftin
Williams —------- WiByetueess Brown, H.

Touchdowns: Davidson High, Fiddler,
MacConnell, J.; Substitutions: Davidson
High, Johnson for MacConnell, J.; Mac
Connell, J. for Henderson; Fiddler for
Gudger; Crow for MacConnell, C.; Hovis
for Williamson. Time of quarters 12
minutes each, Officials: Anderson, (Da-
vidson) referee; Johnson (Davidson) um-
pire; Carter (Davidson) headlinesman.
Attendance, 300.

For, Wake Forest defeated Carolina.
Davidson tied Wake Forest, and as
someone has remarked, after the first
five minutes of play in that game there
was only one team on the field—David-
son’s, and we gained far more ground
against the Demon Deacons than they
did against the little Wildcats.

SERVICE

The Premiere Cleaner and Presser

OUR WORK GUARANTEED TO PLEASE

CITY PRESSING CLUB
Davidson, N. C.

Ga

HOUSE, SEE

WHITLEY-WILKINSON CO.

rr}

WHEN YOU FURNISH YOUR FRATERNITY

LATEST COLUMBIA RECORDS

