THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 19,

1925

WELCOME
HIGH SCHOOL
RUNNERS

GET READY
FOR STATE
APRIL FIRST

Central Cafeteria

“On the Square”

Best Place to Eat
Good Orchestra

Corner Trade and Tryon
Central Hotel Building

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks

Eversharp Pencils Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens

Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Society
Brand
Suits

In the better fabrics

$40

It’s a fact. We are selling
Society Brand Clothes for forty
dollars. These are the clothes
—famous for their cut—accept-
ed everywhere as the finest
America produces. We have a
rich selection, too, of the better

fabrics, at this price. It’s an

amazing value. We have never

offered its equal.

Tilson Lines Up Track
» Squad for Gol bler Meet,

Coach Pushes Men Through Daily
Grind—Prospects Fair Under
Captain Grey

After putting his track candidates through

Coach Tex is now getting a line on his men,
a couple of weeks of strenuous training,

Sport Flashes

By DON WHARTON

We don’t know who it is up to, but our
basketball team should be given a banquet
sometime soon. It was beyond a doubt the
most successful crew that Davidson has
turned out upon the court in many years.

and is fast lining them up for the first meet
the last of this month. Every afternoon
about 30 men can be seen jogging around the
track with the steady gait which develops

Elsewhere in this issue we are running a
| schedule of the “big five” baseball teams of
North Carolina. The season opens here on
April 1, when the Techmen come over for

The TATE
BROWN CO.

Spalding

Reach

Goldsmith Goods

Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.

wpment for Every Sport”

18 East Trade

the muscles into hard, tough sinews. In ad- the first of two games. with the Wildcats.

dition to the 30 men trying for places on the eee Tn:
varsity team, there are about six or eight | N. C, State has been picked by many who

men trying to place on the Freshman squad. Ee TY in the [petals world as the Eeenaee
The prospects this year are fair, with the | WM" of the championship. They had 12

best bets in the hurdles, jumps, javelin and | letter men back for the team.
distances. There are also good men for the | ‘ ,
dashes and discus and shot, but these men | But then the Southern Conference said
must develop a. lot yet. Of the fetter men| that Red Johnston and Dutch Holland, catch-

out, Gracey is the outstanding one, with Red | er.and third baseman, NEE ineligible for the
season—thereby giving Coach Doak’s plans

Anderson and Red McComb running a good | ° een cian
second. In addition to these, there is Willi- | a knockout blow.
ford, in the distances, and Spec McConnell arene : ;
on the mile. Of the other candidates out, | It seems reasonable that the championship

McMillan looks especially good on the broad | should be decided upon the same basis as any

jump, with Goodykoontz and Brand good in| aseball league—percentage of games won
| and lost. Each of the five schools plays a

the dashes, Parker in the mile and half-mile, | - :

Bohannon and McAulay in the shot and dis- | ™¢Presentative schedule, mecting cach of the
cus, and Webb in the two-mile. George | thers.
Smith and Twist Matthews are working

hard, and should place before the season is ¥
over, : |

The old plan of deciding the champ by

though now and then it favors the little

MANY ATHLETES RECENTLY | **°!:
INITIATED INTO “D” CLUB

The athletic association has bought a god
The “D” Club has added in the last two | number of boxing gloves and the sport is in-
weeks 29 new men to its number. Some of | creasing ‘in popularity. What is done this
these had made their letter before this year, eats will largely determine what kind of a
while others of them had not. The initiation | t¢#™ we will have next year,
required two nights to be carried out on ac-| i Ree eae ‘
count of the large number who were taken in. | For, with Captain W Csi) helping ills
Just what the initiation was like nobody | there is no reason why Davidson can't BEM
knows except those who were in it. From) With the other schools along this line,
the sounds that came from the place of the |
initiation, one could get a right good idea of |
the nature of the affair. The most impor-
tant feature of the program was that which
came ofter 12 o'clock when the “D” men got
out on the warpath with their paddles and
poles. The Freshmen hied themselves to
havens of safety, while many upper classmen
wished that they likewise had sought conceal-
'ment. The damage done, however, was very
minor, as the strokes of the paddles were
directed upon articles which by the aid of
kind nature were abled to be mended.

The following men were initiated: J. H.| j eas
McConnell, R. E. Boggs, T. F. Staley, S. W. | With all four of the regulars graduating
Summers, T. S. Baker, W. M. Black, H. L. | this spring it was time to look into the
Vance, L. W. Wells, W. D. Cox, L. P. Cox, | future.
N. G. Patterson, J. M. Trotter, A. F. Simp- | aoapie nae
son, J. W. Anderson, A. B. Williford, W. A.| It is rare that the death of one man who
McAulay, A. W. McAllister, N.'E. Sappen- | is not a leader in governmental departments
field, E. H. Bohannon, W. H. Leggette, Joe| 5° generally touches the people as that of
McConnell, J. F. Pinckney, R. W. Oeland, | Walter Camp. His place will not be filled—

Athletics will sdon be booming here when
the track season starts on the 28th of March
in Blacksburg and the baseball season opens
with two games with Oak Ridge.

Davidson has taken a forward step in
changing from the old style of running tennis
to a much more modern one. Although the
Davidson teams in the past have done great
work upon the courts—especially in the state
tournaments—this will mean further ad-
vancement.

|imitator of no one—men model themselves

PROF. CARL WACHTER }after him. His knowledge of sports from

| the standpoint of both player and coach and

(Continued from page 1) | sports writer exceeded that of any man in

life, and of the human-divine relation than! the world, while his influence was tre-
any other man living. | mendous.

In the recital Friday the whole scale of | ~ a
the versatile poet's composition will be run,; Coming so close after the death of Percy
and the presentation will be in a manner that| Haughton, at Columbia, and of Frank
will leave the audience thrilled with the! Chance, the “Peerless Leader,” it seems that
power of the rendtion of Kipling’s splendid the sporting ranks are thinning out.
verse,

| SALISBURY GOLFERS IN WIN
MISS WAMBAUGH | OVER DAVIDSONIANS

(Continued from page 1) The Davidson Golf team played their first
|cerity of the American people in demanding | Match of the season when they lost to Salis-
|the abolition of war, she was greeted with! bury Country Club, Saturday afternoon in a
| tremendous and enthusiastic appleause. | close and well played match on the latter's
| The lecture will be free to all comers, and| links. The two teams were unusually evenly
‘will begin promptly at 8:00 o'clock. | matched, each team winning two matches and
| the fifth resulted in a draw.

The Wildcats were represented by Malloy,
Reeves, Milhous, Gray and Jones. Reeves
| won his match over Walker, taking two
points. Red Malloy played against Killings-
| worth, who played wonderful golf, and won
three points. Jones won by one point over
Cook and Gray dropped his match to Thomas,
and Milhous played to a draw, which gave
| Salisbury six points to Davidson's three. The
Wildcats did unusually well considering the
course was new to most of the players and
that it was the first match of the season. A
return match will be played with Salisbury
some time this week on the Davidson links.

: Wright &.Ditson

Street

the “who-beat-who” method is “all bosh”’—}:

J. R. Briggs, J. H. Patton, and S, F. Bryant.| for there is no one to fill it. Camp was an:

Fresh Show Good Form
In Early Ball Practice

Rawson’s Squad Has Some Fair
Hitters and Fielders on Hand

The Freshman class will put out one of
the best teams Davidson has seen in recent
years if the players show up as well as they
have so far.

Coach Rawson will have a hard time pick-
| ing his men for there are a lot of heavy hit-
ters and snappy fielders that must necessarily
be left out.

The infield is like the proverbial Rock of
Gibraltar, with Arrowood, an all-state first
baseman, and McGeachy, another stellar per-
former, battling for the hot corner. Dulin,
a great fielder and hitter, with a great arm,

McAulay and Harrison are contending for
the keystone, and McColgan is sewing up the
initial sack.

Pitchers showing up well are Cathey, Vick
and Oden, right-handers, and Poole and
Leight, southpaws.

McNeill, Grey, Johnson, and Edgar, all
good catchers and throwers, are out for that
position.

In the outfield, Johnson, Morris, Maulden,
Wilson, and Wearn, are likely candidates, all
showing good: form and all likely to be re-
tained as extra Hitters.

You’ll~always find a Good Show
CAT ee

THE VICTORY

Programme for the week

* THURSDAY AND FRIDAY
March 19-20

“Along Came Ruth”---with good

comedy
SATURDAY, MARCH 21

“Three of a Party.” Plenty pep!
punch! pathos! Also comedy, “The
Luck of the Footish.”

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
March 23-24

“Triumph” (fine picture )
Pathe News’

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 25

“Who is to Blame?” Social Hy-

giene failure

COMING!

FRIDAY AND SATURDAY
March 27-28
“North of 36,” a picture bigger
and better than “The Cov-
ered Wagon”

is racing with the flashy Kugler for short. |

First Golf Encounter —
Scheduled | With Tech

Quadrangular Meet in Charlotte if
Duke and Wake Forest Join
Teams

A good schedule has been arranged for the
Wildcat golf team for this spring and some
of the best clubs in the section will be met
by the locals, which should arouse a great deal
of interest in the game. The best match of
the season is expected to be when the Wild-
cats meet Georgia Tech in Charlotte.
management is also trying to get Wake For-
est and Duke to enter the meet, but as yet
these schools have not been heard from.
This meet will probably take place about the
18th of April.

More interest than ever before is being
| taken in golf this year, and some of the best
material is available. The team which will
| probably be composed of Reeves, Milhouse,

Malloy, Gray, Jones, Earnhart and Jimmy
| Trotter, is expected to emerge victors in the
| majority of the matches.

The

| The many friends of Mrs, Olin White will

regret to hear that she has been sick with in-
| fluenza this week and so far has shown little
| improvement.

"GE ORE THROAT

|
|
| tonsilitis or hoarseness,
|

gargle with warm salt
water. Rub Vicks over
throat and cover with a
hot flannel cloth. Swal-
low slowly small pieces.

VICKS

APoRuB

Over 17 Million Jare Used Yearly

}
|
|

On These Cold Days---

GOOD, HOT
SANDWICHES

They Satisfy the Appetite

W. G. SHIELDS

For High Class

PRINTING

of every description

+

‘*‘Jam-Up”’

SERVICE

see :
C. M. S. McIlwaine

14 Ga.

Agent for

Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.

Wholesale

When Yon Need Candy
See Us

é
———

26-28 S. College St
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

