THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 5, 1925

we ND

5

State-Davidson Fight Play By Play

The following is a play-by-play report
of the State-Davidson clash here last
Saturday, which the Wildcats won, 9 too:

First Quarter

Grey kicked off to Johnson on State’s
Io-yard line, Johnson returning to his
own 25-yard line. Vance threw Thomas
for 5-yard loss. Johnson gained one. Mc-
Dowell kicked to Grey on Davidson’s
35-yard line, Grey being downed in
tracks. Wells failed to gain. Hendrix
gained two. Grey kicked out of bounds
on State’s 43-yard line. Three passes at-
tempted by State failed and McDowell
kicked to Grey on Davidson’s 1-yard line,
Grey returning to own 31-yard line, going
out of bounds. Hendrix made four and
a half. Wells gained one. Grey kicked
to State’s 45-yard line, McConnell down-
ing the ball. Johnson,gained two but
State was penalized for 15 yards. Thomas
gained five. Vance threw Thomas for
2-yard loss. McDowell kicked to Grey
on Davidson's 20-yard line, Grey return-
ing five yards. Grey gained three. Wells
gained two. Grey kicked to State's 46-
yard line, Bohannon downed the ball.
Thomas gained three. Two Passes by
State incompleted and McDowell kicked
to Grey on Davidson 15-yard line, with
no return. Hendrix. fumbled, but Mce-
Connell of Davidson recovered on Da-
vidson’s 5-yard line. Grey punts to Mc-
Dowall on Davidson's 4o0- yard line, Mc-
Dowall being run back five yards by
Wells. Thomas gained two. When two
passes by State were grounded McDowell
attempted a dropkick, which went low,
Davidson returning the ball to her 25-
yard line. Hendrix gained five. Grey
failed to gain. Davidson fumbled but re-
coveted for 3-yard loss. Grey kicked to
McDowall on State’s 45-yard line, with a
2-yard return. McDowall gained six.
Pass incomplete. Bohannon intercepted
pass on Davidson’s 34-yard line, as the
quarter ended, first down and ten to go.
Score: State 0; Davidson o.

Second Quarter

Wells gained nothing. Wells gained 17
yards off tackle for first down, Black
failed to gain. Wells dittoed, Pass,
Grey to Hendrix, completed for nine
yards. Grey kicked over goal line, State’s
ball on own 20-yard line. Johnson gain-
ed five. Johnson gained four, Shuford
missed first down by half a foot. Mc-
Dowall kicked to Grey on Davidson's 35-
yard line, Grey returning 11 yards. Wells
went out of bounds for no gain. Pass
incomplete. Pass, Grey to Wells to Bo-
hannon completed for 11 yards and first
down, Wells gained six. Wells failed
to gain. Pass incomplete. Grey attempt-
ed dropkick which failed, the ball going
over goal line. It was State’s ball on her
own 20-yard line. Vance threw Thomas
for 5-yard loss. Johnson fumbled but
State recovered for 3-yard loss. Mc-
Dowall kicked out of bounds on State’s
23-yard line. Wells failed to gain. Hen-
drix failed. Pass incomplete. Allen went
in and on next play, standing on his own
36-yard line, dropkicked, the ball land-

ing in the bleechers. Score: State 0;
Davidson 3.

Grey kicked off out of bounds. On next
kickoff Davidson was offside. For the

third time Grey kicked off, this time from
35-yard line, the ball again going out of
bounds. It was State’s ball on her own
40-yard line, Hunsucker gained five.
Jeanette gained one. Pass incompleted.
McDowall kicked to Davidson's 36-yard
line, the ball coming to a standstill. Hen-
drix gained eight. Grey gained eight
yards and first down. Leggette gained
five. Harrison gained three. Black
gained 15 and first down over left tackle.
Two passes incomplete. Pass, Grey to
McConnell, completed for five yards, but
two State Players interferred with re-
ceiver and State was penalized 15 yards,
putting ball on State’s 15-yard line. Hen-
drix failed to gain. Two Passes grounded,
and then one was completed, Grey to
Black to Bohannon, for six yards. Ball
went over to State on downs on her own
To-yard line. Hunsucker fumbled but
White, of State, recovered for no gain,
as the half ended, the ball still on State’s
1o-yard line in State’s possesison, second
down and 10 yards to go. Score: State
0; Davidson 3.
Third Quarter

Shuford kicked off to Grey on David-
son’s 10-yard line, Grey returning 25
yards. Hendrix gained four. Wells
gained nothing. Hendrix gained seven
yards and first down. Wells fumbled,
but Laird recovered for 18-yard gain, Da-

vidson’s ball on State’s 35-yard line. Hen- |
drix and Wells gained five each and first
down. Hendrix gained two. Black gain-
ed four. Hendrix made 10 more and first
down, ball on State’s 7-yard line. Black
gained one yard after fumbling. Wells
gained three. Hendrix gained but half
a yard, and on next play Wells fumbled,
Jeanette of State recovering on own 2-
yard line. Hunsucker gained two yards.
Shuford stopped for no gain. McDowall |
kicked to Grey on State’s 40-yard line,
Grey returning 10 yards. Black failed to
gain. Hendrix gained six. Wells failed
to gain. Laird attempted placekick, with
ball resting on State’s 23-yard line, but
Nicholson blocked the attempted, the ball
being recovered by Austell on State’s
32-yard line. Hunsucker: went out of
bounds for one yard. Hunsucker gained
two, Pass incompleted. McDowell kick-
ed to Grey on Davidson's 27-yard line,
Grey returned it eight yards. Wells lost
two around end, the first time Davidson
had lost a yard from scrimmage. Grey
went out of bounds for no gain. Grey
kicked to State’s 25-yard line to Me-
Dowell, who returned 15 yards. Pass,
Jeanette to Shuford, completed for five
yards. Shuford gained one. Hunsucker
gained 10 yards and first down, the first
down State had made Shuford gained
seven. Hunsucker gained one yard as
the third quarter ended, State’s ball on
Davidson's 35-yard line, third down and
two yards to go. Score: State 0; David-
son 3.

Fourth Quarter
Hunsucker missed first down by three

inches. Shuford gained one yard and
first down,
McDowall

seven

McDowell gained one. Pass,

to Shuford,

yards. Baker threw
Pass, Jeanette to Mc-
gave State first down on Da-
vidson’s 15-yard line. McDowall thrown
by Arrowood for 8-yard loss. Pass in-
completed. Pass went over goal line, Da-
vidson being given the ball on her own
20-yard line. Hendrix failed to gain. Leg-
gette gained one yard. Grey kicked to
McDowall on State's 45-yard line, Mc-—
Dowall returning five yards. Shuford
gain three. Hunsucker gained one. Pass
incomplete. McDowall made the pret-
tiest kick of the afternoon, the ball go-
ing over the goal line, Datidson’s ball on
own 20-yard line. Grey failed to gain.
State penalized five yards for offside.
McCombs in two. plays gained three.
Grey kicked to State’s 47-yard line, ball |
being downed by Davidson player. Hun- |
sucker gained one. Two passes were in-
complete and McDowall kicked to Da-
vidson’s 5-yard line, Grey returning it
to 19-yard marker, Nisbet slipped off 21
yards for first down, being downed by
safety man on State’s 40-yard line. Hen-
drix gained four. Hendrix gained 10
yards and first down. Hendrix gained
eight yards. Pass, Hendrix to McCon-
nell, completed for two yards and first
down. Pass, Grey to Black, for six yards,
but State was penalized 15 yards. placing
ball on State’s 15-yard line. Hendrix |
failed to gain. In two plays Nisbet gain-
ed eight yards, and then Hendrix went |
seven yards for a touchdown, which came
from a continuous march from David- |
son's 19-yard line. Grey failed on extra
point from placement. Score: State 0;
Davidson 9.

completed for |
Hunsucker
for 3-yard loss.

Dowall,

|
|

Grey kicked to Faulkner on State’s 15-|
yard line, Faulkner returning it 15 yards. |
Four passes were either blocked or |
grounded and the ball went over to Da- |
vidson on the fourth down, placing ball |
on State’s 15-yard line. Grey gained |
eight yards. Davidson called an extra
time out and were penalized five yards.
Black made five yards and first down as
the game ended, the ball in Davidson’s
Possession on State’s 5-yard line, first
down and goal to go. Final score: State
0; Davidson 9.. Total first downs, State
3; Davidson 14.

TARHEEL STAFF SPONSORS

(Continued from page 1)
North Carolina. The Archive, of Duke Uni-
versity, was selected as the best college maga-
zine in North Carolina also at this time.

Frederick Smith, editor of The Davidson-
ian; Harold Burke, business manager, and
Harllee Branch, managing editor, will be the
offical representatives from this paper. The
Magazine and Annual have not yet selected
their representatives.

F orensic Council |
Arranges Debates

To those of a literary mind debating is|

| fast becoming a topic of interest and though

no definite schedule has been made out, plans
are fast taking shape for a busy spring in

| the forensic line.

The manager of the debating team is in

| correspondence with the Universities of Ari-|

zona and Pennsylvania, both of which desire
matches. More definite arrangements which+
will probably lead to certain dates have been |
made with Presbyterian College of South
Carolina, Sewanee and V. P. I., and an at-
tempt is being made to secure a debate with
the University of Pittsburg, or if this is im- |
possible, one with William and Mary.

There are seven varsity debaters back this |
year, these being Hollingsworth, Parker, |
Shaw, Bowie, Ratchford, Williams, and |
Wharton. With these men working hard, !
together with last year’s Freshman teams and
those of the year before, Davidson should
make a very creditable showing.

As for the Freshman debates to take place
next spring, plans have been made for a re-
newal of the triangular debate with the
University of North Carolina and Wake
Forest. These debates are excellent training
for future varsity work and a good number

‘of Freshmen are expected out,

In preparation for all of the intercollegiate
debates next spring the Junior-Senior and
Freshman-Sophomore inter-class debates will
be held in the fall.

Also coming in the late fall will be the
tryouts for the Junior oratorical contests
which come at Junior Speaking in the spring.

The year's program is full of activity and
a great deal of interest is centered around
the outcome of the year’s work. ; |

| Elkins before.

Mass Sports "Make Debut
at Davidson This Week

Intra-Mural Sbeetiy to be Inaugu-
rated Under Direction of
Captain Elkins

Intra-Mural sports have at last invaded the
lair of the Wildcats. The first organized
display of these sports came on last Monday
when a‘large number of students met in an
exciting and new game of cageball. Several
| games of volley ball and other sports had
| been played with the new equipment but none
had been under the supervision of Captain
The sports are under the di-
rection of the R. O. T. C. department, but
the funds to buy the equipment were donated
by the college.

Several new sports will make their debut
during the coming week, according to Cap-
tain Elkins. Among these are servus ball,
a magnified form of volley ball, and speed
ball. The director of these athletics is also
hoping to obtain a push ball in the near
future in order to afford sport for many
more students. On Wednesday, the afternoon
drill will be devoted to mass athletics and

the entire battalion will engage in contests’

of some kind arranged by Captain Elkins.
At the next football game on the Hill, the

Duke game on Thanksgiving, the entire

Freshman class will engage in a pushball
This should fur-}

game between the halves?
ther the interest of intramural sports toa
great extent and make them one of the most
popular activities on the Hill.
ment and grounds will be available for all
members of the student body at all times and
is not limited to any special organization,

The equip- |

A new form of scholarship honors is
popular at the University of Colrado. All
members of the A _ group of students
whose term average is above eighty per
cent are guests at a formal banquet
given by those members of the group
whose average is below that grade.

Women at the University of Oklahoma
have begun to flavor lipsticks. The fad
is fast spreading over the university town
and great ingenuity is being used to get
different flavors, which range from lemon
to tutti-frutti—The Flat Hat.

ALHAMBRA
Monday, Tuesday

“THE SEIGE”
Wednesday, Thursday

“The Turmoil”

Friday, Saturday

Fred Thomson

“Ridin the Wind”

in winter, this 6500 h.p.

In an isolated region, almost inaccessible

hydro-electric

plant located on the Deerfield River in New
England, starts, protects, and stops itself.

_ A Self-Starting Power Plant

Dawn—the slumbering city awakens and calls for
clectric current. Many miles away the call is
answered. A penstock opens automatically, releas-
ing impounded waters; a water turbine goes to
work, driving a generator; and electric current is
soon flowing through wires over the many miles to
the city. This plant starts and runs itself.

Power plants with automatic control are now
installed on isolated mountain streams. Starting
and stopping, generating to a set capacity, shut-
ting down for hot bearings and windings, gauging
available water supply, they run themselves with

The General Electric Company
has developed generating and
transmitting equipment step
by step with the demand for
clectric power. Already electric-
ity at 220,000 volts is trans-
mitted over a distance of 270
miles. And G-E engineers, ever
looking forward, are now
experimenting with voltages
exceeding a million.

A new series of G-E advertise-
ments showing what electricity
is doing in many fields will be
sent on request. Ask for
booklet GEK-1.

uncanny precision.

Thus another milestone has

been reached in the

generation of electric power. And with present-day
achievements in power transmission, electricity
generated anywhere may be applied everywhere.

The non-technical graduate need not know where
electricity comes from—nor even how it works.
But he should know what electricity can do for
him no matter what‘vocation he selects.

3-10DH

GENERAL ELECTRIC

{ GENERAL ELECTRIC

CHENEC

TADY,
