THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 19, 1925

Seniors Call Back
Childish Days in
Springtime Feed

The, Senior class of ’25 held its first
banquet and smoker, of the spring term,
on Tuesday evening, March 1oth at the
New Maxwell Chambers Hotel. There
was much interest taken in the affair by
all the members ofthe class,’ and the
Seniors met, with practically a full at-
tendance; only a few being absent, who
were prevented from attending on ac-
count of pressing outside matters.

After a bauntiful banquet of good
eats, for which the ever-growing popu-
larity of the house is noted, cigars and
cigarettes were passed around and the
business of the evening was taken up.
Perhaps the most important matter
which was decided was the question of
the class gift to. the college. After much
discussion, the matter was decided and
a decision reached. President Briggs
stated that for th present it was decided
to withhold the nature of the gift to a
later date, but that it would be announc-
ed at an opportune time.

Another important matter which was
decided, at this meeting of the class, was
the selection of little Miss Goudeloch
Erwin, the attractive little four-year-old
daughter of Prof. and Mrs. E. J. Erwin,
as sponsor for the-class of '25. Her choice
as sponsor, is an exceedingly fine tribute
to this charming little lady. :

The evening’s get-to-gether ended with
some fine musical numbers rendered by
. Joe Earnest, assisted by his ever trusty
guitar, and thus ended the first of a
series of smokers, which the class in-
tends holding every two weeks until the
senior examinations start, which will be
about the middle of May. The remaining
feasts being keenly anticipated by all the
Seniors.

WILL NEAL

(Continued from page 1)
and has appeared as soloist on all the pro-
grams of this popular group of singers.

Mr. Neal has a beautiful high barytone
voice of dramatic quality—which together
with a pleasing personality and stage pres-
ence has made him one of the most popular
singers in the Carolinas and places him in
constant demand for concerts and recitals.

The Charlotte Observer says: “Mr. Neal
is one of the leading barytones of the city,
his voice exceptionally fine, his tones clear
and vibrant, and his diction and style that of
an artist of high-rank,”

The Charlotte News thus comments on his
singing: “Will Neal, barytone, sang the
‘Drinking Song’ from Hamlet and confirmed
the impressions he has made at many public
appearances in Charlotte_as an artist of high
rank,” eon

SODA :

Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.

PARKER COLLEGE FOUNTIN PENS
AND

A SERVICE THAT CARRIES THE ENTHUSIASM
OF A CLASS RUSH

Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.

201 North Tryon St.

UA
SS ——— — —__ | )
d NO, € r
2 ©) (@)
CLOTHES a
Lobby of West
; Today
HATS ~ HABERDASHERY
March 19
SHOES Bill Hollenbeck, Rep.
| ~ ne
IFIINCIHILIBY: >
Fifth-Avenue at 46th St. :
NEW YORK
INITIATES OF PHILOSOPHY IS 7
CLUB READ TIMELY PAPERS |Beta Theta Pi and Pi BAS AS
— Kappa Phi Entertained ,
The Philosophy Club met Thursday night pone !
in the Delta Theta Chi Hall and initiated the| Frequent Week-End Parties Acting THE ASTOR LUNCH
following men from the Junior and Senior as Forerunner of Celebration SERVICE
classes: C. M. S. McIlwaine, M. S. Beall, Junior Week
A. = Moffett, T. C. Barr, R. B. Parker, Co) pho Davidson campus took on a faint re-
FE. Houston and A.’H. Hollingsworth. semblance to the spring holiday season last
The regular meeting consisted of a read-| week-end, two of the fraternities celebrating THE BEST OF COOKING
ingand discussion of two subjects, based on|the advent of the first leaves by house parties. Charlotte, N. CG:
papers by M. S. Beall on the Will To Be-| Gay spring bonnets and gowns struck high C
liewe; and by C. M. S. Mellwaine on the|in the scale of color, to the sad disparage-] & —Yf

Psycho-Physical Parallelism of Mind and
Body, with the latter going at length into
some of the more noteworthy theories bear-
ing upon the mind-body relationship. The
club will attempt a detailed study of the rela-
tionships of mind and body in its program
this spring, emphasizing the value of papers
and open discussions,

THREE WORKS OF STUDENTS
READ AT SIGMA UPSILON

Blue Pencil chapter of the national fra-
ternity of Sigma Upsilon held its regular bi-
monthly meeting Monday night, March 9.
The play and especially the one-act play is
being studied this semester, and emphasis is
laid upon original work by all the members.
This meeting of Blue Pencil was given over
entirely to the work of individual members,
and the program consisted of the following
varying types: A short story, Nigger, by H.
B. Price, dealing with the common treatment
experienced by a progressive negro upon his
return to the South. D. B. Wharton read a
one-act play entitled Woman Politics, and J.
B. Gallent read a short story called Roaches,
both being original work of each one.

PL IIIT II rrr Pry

=a

CIGARS

NONE TOO SMALL

R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President

We Want Ycur Account Regardless of Its Size

The Commercial National Bank

Charlotte, N.C.

Capital, Surplus, Ete., Over $1,200,000.00.

NONE T00 LARGE

» STEWART Cashier and Trust Office
DOAR, Asst. Trust Officer

LW.
_ JB.
* T.S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier

ment of their drab masculine backgrounds,
and the “fire”
satisfaction on the “splendiferous” specimens
of conglomerate feminity. The fraternities
entertaining over the week-end were Beta
Theta Pi and Pi Kappa Phi. A list of the
guests follows:

Beta Pheta Pi: Misses Anne Willingham,
Lafayette, Ala.; Mary Laura Hart, Wy-
nona, Miss.; Elizabeth Wilkinson, Winston-
Salem; Betty Bryan, Charlotte ; Isabel Mil-
ling, Rock Hill; Isabel Pharr, Charlotte;
Catherine Statesville; Rutledge
Dudley, Charlotte; Elizabeth Connell, Char-
lotte.
Pi Kappa Phi: Misses Lucille Wilson, |
Charlotte; Maryon Gallagher, Charlotte; |
Louise Stevens, Charlotte; Margaret Lewis, |
Greensboro; Frances Harrison, Greensboro ; |
Katharine Coxe, Greensboro; Gene MecDon- |
ald, Greensboro,

boys feasted their eyes to

Postom,

Alumni News

Bascomb Sorrells, 23; Robert Holmes, '22; |
_ Flop Beaver, ex-'24; Perry Priest, '24; Tom|
Marrow, ex-'25; Carroll Overton, ex-'24; |
F. J. Wright, ‘22, and Gig Shepherd were on
the Hill during the past week-end. |

Dunbar Ogden, '23; Dwight Chalmers, ‘20, |
and Murdock McLeod, '22, were here for the
past week-end on a deputation from Union |
Theological Seminary. They spoke at sev-}
eral religious meetings during their stay.

|

; mee ; |
college since Christmas, is. now located at |
220 James street, Akron, Ohio. |
|
|
|
|

Births

News has been received that Mr. and Mrs. |
Lawrence Wilkinson have announced the |
birth of a son. Mr. Wilson, '13, is in the in- |
surance business in Charlotte, N. C. |

BUNCH OF FELLOWS ARE ON
HAND FOR RE-EXAMS

|
were |

Saturday at 2:15 re-examinations
given to those students who either failed on}
their first semester exams or who for sick-|
ness or other reason failed to take their |
exams at the scheduled time. The total num- |
ber this year is not exceptionally large. Ac-

ceipts there were 99 who took the exams.
With: the taking-of these exams several
students breathe a sigh of relief and settle
down to' steadier every-day work. These re-
exams. are convenient for the students who
desire a second chance to pass a subject, but
they are also advantageous to those who fail-
ed to take the exams at first. A second set
of them will be held soon, the exact date not
being known, for those students who were
unable to take them Saturday. However,
there will be no more given to those who
failed to pass on the re-examinations.

cur on Sunday than

™

peak.

+ ’clock Sunday afternoon is the most dan-
gerous hour in America---because---more than

twice the number of automobile accidents oc-

week, and at + o’clock the number reaches its

McALISTER CARSON, Mer. (’13)
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

any other day in the

BELK

CHAR

Special Values

Headquarters For

Young Men’s College Suits

Wide Bottom Pants
In one or two piece suits at $25.00 to $29.50

The New Style Bell Bottom Pants

In Light, Medium and Dark Shades at $4.95 and $6.95

Trade With Us and Save Money

BROS.

LO rT E

Being Offered in

HOLLINGSWORTH ELECTED
HEAD OF Y. M. C. A.

(Continued from page 1)

moment that he set foot on the campus he | ;
| has shown his ability in more ways than one. enterprises,
cording to the number who bought their re-| His oratory has made him known to all as a |

debater and orator, and his common sense,
good judgment, and pleasing personality have
made him the friend of every student, espe-
cially those in distress. » His efforts have
made more than-one project successful, and
there is every reason to expect a similar re-
suit in the Y. M. C. A. administration for
next year. j
William Thomas Covington, Jr., of Rae-
ford, N. C., has also won the respect of his
fellow-students since he came to Davidson
in the fall of ’23. His ready smile and gen-
uine character have won him a place of high

| standing among the students. His fellow-
| classmen recognized his ability and chose him
to guide their class through the Sophomore
year,
religious activities in addition to playing an
important role in numerous other campus

He has shown a sincere interest in

William Armistead Christian, Jr., of Mo-
|bile, Ala., made an enviable record in double
| quick time, being chosen as president of his
|class, as a Freshman. He is an athlete, a
scholar, and a clean Christian gentleman.

roll his first year. His ability was seen jand
appreciated soon after he entered school, and
he has made a lasting impression~on all who
have come into contact with him,

With the co-operation of the student body,
these men are certain to make the coming
year one of the best in history, both for the
students and the Y. M. C. A.

| He has played football and made, the .hovor.

\
