THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 24, 1925

——

“Y” Cabinet on Retreat [Famous Moravian

Plans for Work of Year

| |
Retreat Proves Successful in |

Bringing Cabinet Members
Into Closer Contact

The Cabinet of the Y. M. C. A. with
A. M. Hillhouse, “Y” Secretary, spent
last Friday night and Saturday morning
on a retreat making further plans for
the work of the year. The retreat was
successful in bringing the Cabinet into
a closer personal relationship with each
other, as well as a means of studying the
religious problems of the campus.

Definite plans were made in regard to
securing speakers for both fall and spring
meetings. These services are always of
great value to the student body, and the
Y is making an effort to secure the best
possible leaders for these meetings.

The work of each member of the Cab-
inet was discussed at length and many
suggestions were made with regard to
improving all phases of the work this
year. Each of the men on the Cabinet
is busy organizing his particular depart-
ment. The Y hopes to get as many
men as possible actively engaged in the
work on the campus and to spread its
work as far out as it can.

At the Saturday morning meeting Dr.
Arbuckle was present and spoke to the
men concerning the opportunity before
them. With definite plans made and the
active support of the students this year
should be a successful one in the reli-
gious life of the college.

Miss Lucy Martin Currie has recover-
ed from her illness.

Divine to Speak

at “Y” Services

The Y. M. C, A. has succeeded in se-
curing Bishop Rondthaler of Winston-
Salem to address the students at the “Y”
vesper service next Sunday night, Sep-
tember 27th.

Those men of the upper classes who.

heard Bishop Rondthaler last fall, on the
occasion of his last visit to Davidson
campus, will remember the splendid
crowd which greeted him, and the in-
spiring address which he delivered.

Dr. Rondthaler is one of the most
widely known and universally respected
men to appear at any Davidson meeting.
He is one of the foremost leaders in the
Moravian Church, and the father of the
president of Salem College. A large at-
tendance is predicted for the vesper serv-
ice next Sunday.

Miss Nancy Gray, daughter of Dr. and
Mrs. W. R. Gray, left the first of last
week to assume her duties as Director of
Music in the Marion, N. C., school.

Misses Catherine Porter, Ruth John-
son and Sara Barnette have matriculated
at the Carolina College for Women at
Greensboro.

We have with us Mrs. Fannie Burton
Watson of Arkansas, who has begun a
class in music.

Prof. W. W. Wood and family return-
ed this week fro mtheir vacation and are
occupying their home.

(| M. B. MAYHEWS MAYHEWS I. FRONTIS
CLEANERS AND DYERS
College Reps. Plants
Chas. Bragaw, 15 N. B. Mooresville Ph. 240
I. Frontis, 18 Ga. Davidson Ph. 82-J

NORTON’S BARBER SPOP

THE SHOP WHERE SERVICE

IS FOREMOST

OUR AIM IS TO PLEARE

your best at all times.

Next 'to Postal Telegraph

YOUR APPEARANCE

Is very important, in fact it is absolutely necessary to appear at

LET US ASSIST YOU.
THE COMMERCIAL BARBER SHOP

Statesville, N. C.

P. C. McILWAINE, Mgr.

“EVERYTHING MUSICAL”

PIANOS, PLAYER-PIANOS
VICTROLAS

RECORDS AND ROLLS

AN DREW

Band instruments of all kinds, stringed instruments

SHEET MUSIC

‘OLDEST IN THE STATE

MUSIC 213
STORE N. Tryon St.

4

| DAVIDSON WILDCATS WIN

(Continued from page 1)
limelight. But Saturday sent him back, and
back with a bang, as he got off with a 50-
yard runback of a punt for a touchdown, a
34-yard race around right end, and several
other gains in addition to the opening one
already mentioned.

After Wells, usually a sure back, had
fumbled the ball, and Elon had recovered on
the 25-yard line, the Christians chose to punt.
Red Anderson, who played the best game iu
the Davidson line, went tearing into the
kick, which rebounded toward Davidson's
left end. Bohannon grabbed the ball up, and
as Joe McConnell sent the last Elon back
sprawling on the ground, raced_across the
goal line for the first touchdown, Laird kick-
ed the goal. Davidson 7, Elon 0.

Slon kicked again, and then Davidson be-
gan its great march to the goal line. It was

| CHARLOTTE PASTOR TALKS

4

gS
(Continued from page 1)

| mire conviction whether they hold the same
| conviction. Paul set the example for young
| men who will live life at its best. He had a
| faith and he boldly stated to the world what
he believed.

Young men are prone to neglect religion.
Eight-five per cent of the young men in the
United States are not church members; 90
per cent of those who belong to the church

| do not attend and only 25 per cent of those

who do attend do so with the sincere purpose
of worshipping Christ. These were some of
the startling statements the speaker quoted
from a current author.

Doctor Johnson. continued, young men are
subject to go through a period of skepticism.
Skepticism is, however, weakening and leads
to sin. Youths need education but this is not

Blue Pencil Club
Elects Five Men
for Membership

At its regular mecting on Monday
night, the Blue Pencil Chapter of Sigma
Upsilon elected five Seniors to member-
ship: H. L. Shaw, R. W. Graves, T. C.
Barr, W. E. Milton, and W. H. Allison.

Each of these men has demonstrated
extraordinary brilliancy and versatility
in the literary arts, and justly merits his
bid to Sigma Upsilon, which is the high-'
est literary honor awarded to Davidson
undergraduates. .

Sigma Upsilon is a national fraternity,
including in its membership chapters in
more than thirty leading American Col-
leges and Universities. \

all important. An educated pickpocket be-

The present membership of the local

Captain Black whom Sappenfield sent smash- comes a forger of checks. Youths need first} chapter is comprised of four members of
ing into the Christian line for 12 of the next Christ who will keep them from sin. The! the class of .’26, S. W. Brown, C. F.
14 consecutive plays. Carrying the ball for history of great men show that a great many} Monk, R. B. Parker, and C. F. Smith,

51 yards, while Wells accounted for 10, the
Davidson leader finally placed it over the goal
line. Laird kicked another placement. Da-
vidson 14, Elon 0,

After Davidson had. kicked and Elon re-
turned with a punt, Grey took the ball for
another run around right end, running out of
bounds after a gain of 34 yards. The next
play brought the fatal Sappenfield accident,

of them have been Christians.
calls for the best that is in men.

Christianity

In conclusion the speaker asked four ques-
{tions which every man should ask himself }
about Christianity.

The first was:
men?”

“Does it make us better’
Some religions do not. He cited |
an incident of a Mexican who had murdered

,

test of the dying hour?” Multitudes of ex-
amples are known of Christians willing to
die when their time had come, and who pass-
ed over the great divide calmly, peacefully
and happily. ;

“Will it stand the test of God's Word?”

, Was the last question, Christianity is based

‘ " (: F ow ; rde > ge is ; a}iy Ry : as ace {
after the ball was placed on the 11-yard line. @ ™@n in cold blood in’ order to get his absolutely on the Bible_and has no place for

Hewlett let Black run twice again, the quar-
ter ending with the ball on Elon’s. four-yard
line and first down.

Second Quarter

The second team went in and on the third
play McComb took the ball over for his first
collegiate touchdown, Overton kicked the
goal. Davidson now leading, 21-0. The re-
mainder of the quarter was uneventful, ex-
cept that Elon made its first down when Har-
rell went around left end for nine yards
after gaining one through center,

Third Quarter

Davidson took an offside penalty on the
kick-off, and then Kelly ran the ball back 15
yards to the 35-yard line. Elon was _ penal-
ized half the distance to the goal line. When
they punted, Dick Grey grabbed the ball 6n
his 50-yard line and ran down the east side
for another touchdown. Laird kicked again.
Davidson 28, Elon 0.

For the second time during the game Grey
kicked into the last five-yard space on the
kick-off. After some exchanging of punts
and fumbles, Black intercepted the first pass
of the game on Davidson's 33-yard line. Then
began another great offense. Hendrix took
jone off right tackle; Overton went around
the same end for 12 and first down; Grey re-
peated for 11 and another first; Hendrix took
the ball around the other side for nine and
| Grey made it first down. Overton went out
on the 29-yard line, and then made one over
right tackles Then he smashed off right
tackle for 26 yards and touchdown. Grey's
place-kick went short. Davidson 34, Elon 0.

Third Quarter

On the opening play Hewlett made first
down through the center of the line. Over-
{ton made another over right tackle. Melton
and Hewlett scratched through the tackles,
again, but on the third play Melton fumbled,
Elon recovering on her onw 33-yard line.
|The Christians began a smashing attack
through the line, carrying the ball for two

first downs, only to be stopped when Piggy |

Wearn spilled a reverse play for a five-yard
loss. Elon punted over the goal line. Da-
vidson made fifteen but Davidson was pen-
alized 25 yards. Elon made two passes good
| for 27 yards, for the first time entering
Davidson's territory. Another pass put the
ball on the four-yard line. The next one
was grounded by Overton. Then came the
| whistle.

The whole Davidson line that started show-
jed up well, with Red Anderson probably
| doing the best work. In the backfield Black,
| Grey, and Overton ran well, while Sappen-
| field and Hendrix showed great generalship.
| Hewlett was a flash of speed, a bit too fast
| for his interference.

| Pinkney Se eee Se Browne|

| L. E. |

Waird 22252 eee ee ks Se Sails
L, -T.

Wance 2252 2- Ssc25 2 =. 2 Alexander
L. G. I

MeConnell: 2-3 Sess es McCauley |

: Gee:

Bakeres 2 o2 2 (28 kes eS oster.
R. G.

Anderson -. -. -. -. -. -. -- ~~ ~~ Wilson
Rees

Bohannon -- -. ~~ -_ -_ -. -- -- -- Byerly
R. E.

Sappenfield -. -. -. -_ -. -. -. -- Kirkland

Q.

Wells te: o 5 ee ae ee Marrell

0 3b

‘| Line-up and summary: |

lunch. The lunch contained meat and since
it was Friday the murderer refused to eat it.
His religion kept him from doing this, but
did not keep him from taking the life of his
neighbor. Christ does make people better,
| Doctor Johnson said, and cited as examples
the woman at the well in Samaria anlong
with other illustrations,

“Does it satisfy the highest demands of
your conscience?” was the second question.
In answering this he showed that the Chris-

tian religion does not allow any action which |

is contrary to the will of God or to the in-
dividual conscience,
The third question was “Will it stand the

BRO ees Seb he Sone sanwe eres GORRINS
R. H.
ytd (CO) os a a es oe 1, Valarie
F. B.
Score by quarters :
Davidson .. -- -- -- -- --- 14 7 13 0—34
HiOhipew careaceupes so eo7cen 000. Oe 0
Substitutions—For Davidson: Hewlett,
Overton, McComb, Leggette, Arrowood,

Hendrix, Wearn, Harrison, McEachern,
Richie, Lincoln, McNeil, Mitchell, Grey, J.
Melton, Mauldin, Second team went in for
first; later first for second; then second for
{first. For Elon: Roundtree, Cox, Beck,
Newman, Richardson, Brawley, Kelly.

Scoring touchdowns: Bohannon, Black,
McComb, Grey, Overton. Place kicks after
touchdowns: Laird (3), Overton, Grey

(failed).
Referee: Sampson (St. Albans) ; umpire:
Hartsell (N. C. State) ; headlinesman: Ma-

! hypocrisy or self-consciots. piety.

As a last word to the students Doctor
Johnson urged them to continue in the faith
for he said through it would be gained
power, peace and grace which would remain.

MUTT NISBET

(Continued from page 1)

Arrowood was alsoa member of the Fresh
football team last year, being one of the
jstar ends of the state. He also showed up
well at first base on the Frosh nine last
}spring. In the student body elections last
spring he was chosen as secretary and treas-
{urer of the Atheltic Association. Arrowood
is from Shelby, N. C., and is a member of
the Delta Theta Chi fraternity.

Miss Mary Richards, who is teaching
in the High School of Mebin, N. C., spent
the week-end with her parents, Dr. and
Mrs. C. M, Richards.

FELLOWS

We are always ready toserve
those delicious meals.
Come in any time

The New York Cafe

Charlotte, N. C.

jor (Clemson) ; attendance: 3,000.

G

---I

Mooresv

FELLOWS, WE BELIEVE

CO-OPERATION

We serve the best and leave it to our satisfied customers
to do the rest

The Sanitary Cafe

Next door to Artcraft Theatre

N..-

ille, N. C.

MOORESVILLE, N. C.

