Welcome
Techmen,
Alumni,
Fair Visitors

HOMECOMING NUMBER

Complete
Program of
Game on
Page Ten

Vol. XIII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.,

No.. 7

FIGHTING ELEVEN BOWS
TO PURPLE HURRICANE

ON RAIN-SOAKED FIELD

~

Furman Wins 7-0 as Captain Tilgeman Crosses Goal

Line on Forward Pass in Last Period.
derful Defense by Davidson Forwards

Outplayed, but not outfought; defeated,
but not disgraced, the Davidson Wildcats
came back to their lair late last Saturday
night intact and in good spirits, despite the
victory of the Purple Hurricane of Furman
University that afternoon, 7 to 0, on Wearn
Field, in Charlotte.

Five thousand people or more saw the
Baptists from Greenville, S. C., and the Pres-
byterians of Davidson, battle for over three-
quarters and a half without either team
scoring, only to sce the tie broken when half
of the fourth period had passed.

They had watched the Wildcats fight de-
terminedly and doggedly against tremendous
odds. They had been watching the Davidson
team scratch and claw, slip and side on the
soggy field. They had watched the Hurri-
cane advance toward the Davidson goal on
several occasions, only to see the Wildcats
hold, fighting fiercely to keep the score to a
0 to 0 tie. They had admired the Wildcats
for the plucky valour, for the impenetrable
line they were presenting to the heavy Fur-
man forwards and to the driving backs.

Their admiration still remains, but David-
son was defeated. The lone touchdown came
after Rawl, star of the afternoon, had sent
the pigskin hurling through the air for the
longest kick of the afternoon, the oval go-
ing over Dick Grey’s head. When downed
Grey was on the six-yard line and the ball
had come from Furman’s 25-yard line.

Grey kicked. Groans were heard as the
ball went low. It was returned to Davidson's
20-yard line. Laney and Rawl together
gained eight yards. Tilghman, end for Fur-
man, who had been calling signals for the

(Continued on page 5)

Annual ‘Y’ Meeting i
Conducted by Dr. C. F.

Meyers of Greensboro

Mixed Quartette Adds to Interest to
to Services With its Splendid
Musical Program

“Who is your master?” was the theme
of the first of the series of talks to be
delivered by Dr. Myers to the Y. M. C.
A. in the fall evangelistic services. Dr.
Myers spoke to a full house of students,
members of the faculty and town peo-
ple on Monday night. His text was
taken from Job 2:12, “Man is born like
the wild ass’s colt.”

In opening the subject Dr. Myers said
that man was born like the colt of the
wild ass in that he had no master, but
carrying the analogy on, man does be-
come mastered by the crowd, or by him-

self or by the only true master, Jesus
Christ.

The incident of Jesus sending for the
ass in Jerusalem tied just outside of a
door at the parting of the way was cited
as a fitting comparison. For men are
tied down by sin just outside the door
that will open to freedom with Christ—so
near and yet so far—and they are at the
parting of the ways to choose their own
destiny, to go the right or,the wrong
way. Finally Jesus riding the ass’ into
Jerusalem in His triumphal entry is sym-
bolical of full fruition to be had by the
one who submits to and serves the True
Master.

(Continued on page 5)

Won-

TOM BAKER
Davidson Right Tackle
Selected by all the leading papers for

faker
ar.
y

place on all-state cleven last fall.
is continuing great work this

'son College Day.

Glee Club to Present

Many Entertainers at
Stunt Night Saturday

Four Classes and Dramatic Club
Also Join in Giving Varied Array
of Talent

Stunt Night with all its music, comedy

and fun will begin at 8:00 o'clock Satur-

day evening in Shearer Hall as a fitting
climax to Homecoming Day and David-
The Glee Club, which
is sponsoring Stunt Night, will furnish a
chorus, quartet,. soloist, jazz. and = sym-
phony and a Mandolin and
Guitar Club as part of the program, while
the four classes with the Dramatic Club
will furnish the part,
| putting on a stunt.

orchestra

remaining each

The Glee Club chorus of sixteen men
will sing two songs, “Keep on Hoping”
and John Peele.” The quartet, Maleolm
Lockhart, D. G. Wilson, R. S.
and D. M. Calhoun, will render three or
four numbers. This quartet is well-
known on the hill having sung several
times at the “Y"” vespers and at the local
church The reently formed

Lowrance

services,

GAME WITH

on Richardson

| Mandolin and Guitar Club composed of
three Proctor Thomp-
son, Tom Jones and R. C. Womack, and
three Freshmen, Herbert Worzel, C. J.
Albright and Cain, has been practicing
frequently and should add much to the
program, Lockhart will) sing several
solos accompanied by Thompson with his
guitar. Lockhart made the Glee Club his
Freshman year and sang on the K. kK, K.
Kwartet during the entire season, He
has one of the best tenor voices in col-
lege. The well-known jazz and symph-
ony orchestras led by Count Davis and
(Continued on page 5)

upper-classmen,

HARRY VANCE
Davidson, Left Guard

Vance was the other Davidson lineman
to receive great attention by mythical
eleven pickers. He is better this year
! than last.

Davidson College and Entire Student Body

To Make Homecoming Day Greatest in History

Addition of Davidson College Day and Granting of Holiday Add a Variety of

Features to Make Day One of Biggest Yet.

Re

view in Morning and

Football in Afternoon. Stunt Night in Shearer Hall

Students Vote to
Alter Constitution

Last Saturday morning the amendment
of the .constitution brought before the
student body about ten days ago, was
voted upon and passed. The amendment
pertains to afticle six, section five, of the
constitution, as drawn up in 1914, and re-
written and revised in 1918. At the time
of the revision, the clause that is being
added was inadvertantly omitted in the
copying, and hence this amendment was
necessary. The amendment merely sets
a specified vote at which the action of
the student body may over-ride the
action of its student council. The vote
on the amendment was practically unan-
imous, only four votes from: the entire
student body being cast against it.

The amendment as voted upon reads as
follows: “A two-thirds vote of the stu-
dent body shall be necessary to over-ride
the action whichthe student council has
taken. The whole of article six, section
five, will now read: “Sec. 5s—Should the
accuser or the accused feel that he has
not derived just at the hands of the
Student Council he may carry his case
before the Studént Body. He must first
notify the President of the Student Body

(Continued on page 6)

For the first time, Davidson College
Day and Home-coming Day will be con-
solidated and held on the same day, Sat-
urday, Oct. 31st. There two occasions
during the college year are usually held
on separate days. The Davidson College
Day has formerly been held on Armistice
Day and Home-coming Day on the day
of the biggest football game of the year.
3ut at a meeting of the student body last
week, it was voted to have the two days
combined and held on the thirty-first.
The change of holidays necessitated its
presentation to the student body.

The headline attraction for the day will
be the big football game between David-
son and N. C. State. This game will be
closely contested since it will have a bear-
ing on the state championship. And
since itis) one of the largest games in
the state on that day there will be as
many as five thousand people present at
Richardson Field when the
whistle blows. Present predictions fore-
cast that the crowd will eclipse that of
the Carolina game played here last year.
Since it is also Home-coming Day many
of the alumni and their families will be
present for te game. On Saturday morn-
ing the Military department will give an
exhibition for the visitors. The first ex-
ercises will be in the form of a calisthen-
ic drill by the entire battalion. This will

(Continued on page 5)

opening |

Funds aie Raised :

|

for Page Memorial

|
| Plans are now going forward for the
establishment at Johns Hopkins Univer-
| sity of a college of International Relations
|—a school in which special study and re-
jsearch will be conducted toward finding
{some plan or policy that will promote
world peace. An extensive canvass is be-
|ing made for the provision of a million
; dollar endowment which will be used for
| the purpose of founding this college at
| John Hopkins.

| In chapel Saturday morning Dr. J. M.
| McConnell made an appeal tothe student
| body, setting forth the many and great
advantages which would result from such
a course of study—advantages not con-
fined to the United States alone but hav-
ing influence throughout the world. He
!urged that Davidson do her part in con-
itributing to a cause which would kave
possibilities of exerting such a universal
influence for good in the world.

The state of North Carolina is asked
to give $25,000 toward the fund. The
students and faculty propose to make
Davidson College’s part a hundred to two
hundred dollars. With this end in view
a canvassing committee has been appoint-
ed from members of the Internatial Rela-

(Contired on page 6)

| first

WOLFPACK

TO TEST REAL SCORING
ABILITY OF WILDCATS

Davidson’s State Championship Aspirations Hang
in Balance as North Carolina State is Played

Field Gridiron

The fighting Wildcat eleven, seekers for
honors in) North Carolina football
circles, today faces the crucial test in the

‘game with North Carolina State, on Rich-
'ardson_ field.
| relatively weaker teams, through an immortal
j tie with the cohorts of Coach Hank Garrity,
j irom Wake Forest, and through a thrilling
| fight against the Purple Hurricane, the Wild-

Through four victories over

cats have ranged until now they find the
Wolfpack howling at their door,

Away back in ancient history wolves and
wildeats, yet unnamed, fought upon an an-
cient field in Davidson only to divide the
spoils even between them, as the wolves raced
back to their lair in Raleigh, and the Wild-
cats gathered in their claws.

Frequently the Wolfpack in quest of more
spoils has roamed across the state and fought
victorious skirmishes with the weaker Wild-
cats, but today alone have they been so daring
as to enter the very camping grounds of the

cats themselves, And all the more daring in

| that the Wildcat has grown and strengthened

until he is a fit foe for even the raging
Wolves,

The Wolfpack, led by Captain Al John-
stone and the great Jack McDowell in the
backfield, comes to Davidson with a rather
mediocre record but with great potential
powers. Many football fans are expecting
this power to reach its zenith in the David-
son game. Coach Tebell, of mid-western
fame, will play his all in efforts to win to-
day's game.
Davidson enters the game considerably
strengthened by the return of Jim Hendrix
as leader of the Wildcats. Also Anderson

(Continued on page 6)

Fraternities Plan to
Construct Home Soon

Near Athletic Field

Charlotte Architect Has Drawn
Plans to House Four Frats on
Concord Street

The fraternities at Davidson which have
heretofore been located in houses on the
campus have finally put plans on foot to
build houses off the campus.

In the places where they dare now, they
have been under somewhat cramped con-
ditions as in some cases there were two
fraternities in the same which
proved to be too small. Others were lo-
cated in buildings in which there were
class-rooms and was rather inconvenient.
It has been the desire of the fraternities
to get out of these unsuitable conditions
for some time and now they are forging
ahead with their plans.

house

A plat of land has been set aside for
this purpose on Concord Street just south
of the athletic field. This section ad-
joins the campus and will be convenient,
yet it will be more private than old con-
ditions.

The planning of the project has been
put in the hands of Mr. Boyer, an ar-
chitect of Charlotte. There will be a
drive-way through the front of the sec-
tion in the shape of a semi-circle. The
space inclosed in this drive will be made
into a court and will be decorated and
beautified. Around the drive, the ground
has been divided into nine lots of equal

(Continued on page 6)
