4 .

THE DAVIDSONIAN,

DECEMBER 17, 1925

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

_Member of: Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson ‘as Mail “Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents»per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH....----.-...-- Editor-in-Chief
HAROLD D. BURKE Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

W. H. v ---------.-.-Managing Editor
L. D. Assistant Managing Editor
P. F. Ji -Assistant Managing Editor
Withie MILTON ies cece eee Athletic Editor
R. B. Editor
A. Y. Editor
A. H. Editor
GA Editor
J. Editor
F, Editor
Hiv DieBURK Miscsscansseusseuseanesiseosces Business Manager
W. H. LYNCH... sistant Business Manager
V. S. BROYLES Assistant Business Manager
Hy AY, ALBXANDBRiies 2 Circulation Manager
E. D. WITHERSPO! upscription Manager
Bel DOU GIASS i iisscucascccedaseccec, tases coeness Assistant
JULIAN LAKE--.-----. .---Service Department
Mirth i GRA\VHORD Secccacudensctcasacasacaasesaeceacehl Sastanlt

|
|

Reporters’ Club

G, M. EDDINGTON, Pres. oF F, HOLLINGSWORTH
V. S. BROYLES, Vice-Pres. . MARTIN

C. C. MURCHISON, Sec.-Tr. R. H. McILWAINE
W. H. ALLISON a . P. McKNIGHT
H, M. AUSTIN : E, MOORE

F. K. BELL *. K. REGEN

£. L, BRAGAW H. L. SHELBY

D, M. CALHOUN . B. THOMPSON
W. T. COVINGTON . B. WEBB

W. T. DAVIS . G. WHARTON
E, L. DOUGLASS B. WILSON

F, T, FRANKLIN C. WITHERS

W. S. GORDON W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

One more week—then Christmas !
D
A thing of beauty is an expense forever,
especially near Christmas time.
D

We've been hearing from the Prince of
Wales, off and on, ever since he has taken
up horse racing.

D

The intra-mural sports have taken the

campus during the past few weeks. Boxing
and wrestling, the sports of the ancient
Hellenese, are much in favor here.

D

These standardized, time-saving letters
have flooded the collegiate territory. Be-
fore long there will be a course in mental
telepathy offered that will put Uncle Sam’s
mail service in the shade. Would we be
afraid to read our girl’s mind when she gets
wroth?

D

The fellows are anxiously visiting the
postoffice after every train bringing mail to
Jaybirdsville. We all hope that dad wont
put off sending that check to come on like
we put off reading parallel, until the night
before it is due. If he does we will have to
walk, home or stay here. Students’ dads
please take notice!

D
The Hill, long famed in song.and story

will be deserted soon, like banquet hall after |

the advent of Banquo’s spectre. Flivvers,
automobiles, train and feet will take the fel-
lows to the four corners of the Southland
and West Virginia. Felix, the fierce and
ferocious fighting feline will be all alone
till the boys come home.

D

_, Red Grange has struck two or three snags
in his march toward success. His managers,
arranging games for the edification of the
populace, have placed him in a_ position
where where he has to play about five or six
games a week. Any football man will tell
you that no one can stand up under this
sort of schedule. We suggest a little slack-
ing down before he has to go to some sani-
tarium and spend all the money he has earn-
ed settling his frayed nerves.
D

Skit, proprietaire de luxe ofthe White
Pilling Station, has announced his mid-win-
ter statistics. He says that college boys
have bought less Christmas presents this
year than usual. Post cards have found a
ready sale, but candy—nix.

T).

The students certainly miss the filling sta-
tion that held sway up over the line in Ire-
dell County. Those luscious hot dogs and
crackling cakes have gone the way of all
flesh andthe fellows mourn.

|
|
|

should work.

Che Spirit of Christmas i

HE Christmas season, gladdest of all the year, is here with us. The
spirit of Christmas, that elusive but very human feeling for others,
once more instills into happy hearts the true gift of the day.

This is the one day of all the year when all hearts bear the same
kindly spirit of love and sacrifice. All nature lends her moods to that of
the joyous Yule-tide season. It is the time for celebration and great joy.

Since that memorable night, almost two thousand years ago in the
dim past, when the Christ child was born in Bethlehem, the spirit of love
has continued in human hearts. The radiant and beaming star that hung
over the velvet darkness of the Judean hills and showed the shepheards
where their Lord lay, still shines as a symbol of divine love. The angelic
voices that proclaimed peace on earth and good will to men still echo the
spirit of love and sacrifice that has rung down the ages.

Through the early days when pagans and Christians struggled to
establish their beliefs; through the dark ages of the feudal period, the
spirit of Christmas has never faltered, nor has it been supplanted. : It
grows in strength with each new generation and with the succeeding
years. It lives because it is as true as life itself.

_In Merrie Englande, the day was observed with great joy. The drag-
ging in of the huge yule log, the lighting of the waxen tapers that made
brilliant the lofty cathedral windows, the flaming plum puddings that
gracedthe tables, are all reminescent ofthe glad season. In our own land
the day is observed with great rejoicing. The advent of old Saint
Nicholas, the patron saint of childhood, brings joy to every childish heart.

And even in this hustling, bustling, work-a-day world of ours, the
spirit of Christmas is as real as mother love and everlasting as the hills.
The same spirit that animated the heart of old Scrooge still obtains. The
gift ofthe magi is the spirit that we experience, the kindnesses andthe
good deeds that we do for our fellow men. The costly gifts from the
East, that the wise men brought to Bethlehem are no more precious than
the smallest remembrance one gives us with the prompting of real love.

It is only meet that we should pause on this day of all days to con-
sider what it means. Lest we forget that it is the birthday ofthe King,
a day to commemorate the Savior of all mankind,-we should turn out
thoughts to Him. And only by serving others can we fulfill the divine
wish. The essence of Christ’s command that we love our neighbor as
ourself is found in the true spirit of Christmas.

The spirit of Christmas should last from one glad Christmas day,
through the bleak days of winter, the radiant glory of spring, the warmth
of summer and the splendor of all, to another Christmas day, thus com-
pleting a cycle of love and good deeds, to the fulfillment of which we

(C, 1%, &,

THE RISE FROM OBSCURITY

Amidst the wild clamoring of most col-
leges of the nation for prominent high and
prep school athletes, many coaches and most
alumni might turn their eyes toward David-
son. Amidst the popularity of freshmen
football players other members of the lower
class might turn their thoughts to Lucian
Wells—and seek to follow him.

Two years is but a short time, but its a
far cry fromthe early days of scrub football
in 1923 to the captaincy ofthe best football
eleven inthe state in mid-December of 1925.
Its a far cry from November 9th of his soph
year when he first played a game of college
ball till October 3rd when his wonderful
playing on Wearn Field sunk the champion-
ship crew of Wake Forest.

Wells’ election is a triumph of hard work,

Minor Chords

INSPIRATION

Just a little thought or two,
Comes to me each day;
Just a little thought of you,

Cheers me on my way.

When the way is hard and steep,
When I can't go through,

When I fear to make the leap,
Then I think of you.

Strength comes into every limb,
I can do or dic;

Whether fail and fall, or win,
I at least can try,

When it seems my hope is gone,
And I'd like to stop,

Thought of you keeps spurring on,
Till I reach the top.

In the night you-are my star,
Guiding toward the day,

In the day you shine afar,
Guiding right my way.

Just a@ little thought of you,
Comes to me each day;
Just @ little love from you,
Helps me on my way.

When at last the prize is. won,
And when thanks are due;

To the one who really won,
I'll give thanks, to You.

ing. And men who have not starred in fresh
football games, whose names have never
rung with cheers of high school playing,
might model their future course along the
lines followed by Wells. And who knows
but some future captain of the Davidson
eleven may be discovered in the practice this
spring?

We congratulate Wells for his football
ability, we congratulate him for his recent
election, but we admire him most for his
rise from obscurity to fame.

Open Forum

MINNIE, LUTHER, AND DASH

For the past three or four weeks it seems to
have been the hobby of someone in the town to
poison: dogs. Two have been known to die from
effects of poison eaten in food, and another dog
was only saved by the quick action of Dr. Mc-
Connell, who found the animal in a serious con-
dition, ;

Ever since college opened in the fall, “Minnie”
and “Luther” have been good mascots of some of
the students, and the fellows were very fond of
them. “Luther” was the official mascot of the
cross-country team, as he followed them on their
four mile journey every afternoon. But they are
both dead as the result of someone’s cruelty and
decided lack of sportsmanship. If a man has to
kill a dog why does he not load his gun and put
him out of his misery at once, instead of making
him suffer agony before he dies?

“Dash,” Dr. MacConnell’s prize bird dog was
poisoned last Saturday morning, and was found
stricken just in time to be saved by a dose of
medicine. None of these dogs, especially the lat-
ter, were doing a bit of harm on the campus, and
it seems only an act of cruelty to animals in the
extreme to so treat these dumb creatures.

As it is the students have no pets upon the cam-
pus. The wildcat is a little too belligerent to
fondle, and dogs are about the only animals here
that can be petted. It therefore does seem that
these animals could be allowed to live and enjoy
life, and to give a little diyersion to the students.

The basketeers, as the sports scribes call
them, have started on their annual winter
journey to stardom. Under an all-state
coach they should make some good show-
ings this season. That little win over
Georgia Tech last year and the rest of those
games are over. It’s time to think of what
we're going to do this year.

, weak whene’er he saw this stocking

THE CHRISTMAS STOCKING
In days of old when, knights were bold each
wore a suit of tin to keep from off his limbs the

cold and frostbite off, his shin. They hailed with
joy the Yuletide eve, Kris Kringle and his deers.
These vassals would the bowl relieve and give
Kris hearty cheers.

Before the fireplace’s flaming glow, each noble
hung his of hand-wrought steel. '’Twas
quite a show to see heat his suit. When
Kringle came into the hall he found the stout
boots there, each weighing fifty pounds and tall,
like spectres on a stair. He filled each leg with
treats to suit a viscount’s taste, a peck or so of
ancient sweets, or an ale cask in his haste. And
if perchance the good ale spilled and rusted brazen
found comfort killed

boot

one

toes, the good sir knight
with rusty looking clothes.

In grandma's day they hung a sock of wool or
cotton make from high-set mantles neath the
clock which ticked for old sake. This
stocking chaste was good and strong and fully
two feet wide. Its length could hold a book of
song or phonograph inside. Old Santa Claus grew
yawn. To
fill such things he’d work a year from night till
carly dawn. He filled each utmost crack and
nook with every sort of sweet and in the toe he'd
place a book by daring Snake Eye Pete.

3ut in this age of jazz and gin, the socks have
changed their guise. They're made of gauzy silk
as thin as caterpillar’s eyes. When Flapper Fan-
nie hangs her hose beside the Morris chair, she

time’s

| writes to Santa of her woes and all the boy can

| delay, let’s get it through, by heck!

| the state prison.

spare. When St. Nick creeps into the room he
cannot see her stocking because the darkness and
the gloom makes such a business shocking. Trans-
parent hose is all the rage, but pity poor St. Nick.
How can the old boy fill his page when played a
scurvey trick? And Dad says, “Nick, why don’t
For after
all is said today, it’s me that signs the checks.”

The governor was making a Christmas tour of
The convict stepped on his toe.
“Pardon me,” he said to the governor.

ALLEE SAMEE
Santa Claus, St. Nicholas, Noel, Sandy Klaws,
Dad—they’re all the same.

The negro preacher was asked forthe definition
of the word, Yuletide, by one of the devout black
sheep of his flock.

“Well, you see hit’s lak dis’,” said the dusky
divine as he muffed his hands and rolled both
eyes, “Yuletide comes from de word ‘yule’ And
‘yule’ means dat yule git drunk dis Christmas,
yule beat yo’ wife, yule fergit to pay yo’ church
dues, yule be uh o’dinary sinner, and if you knows
whut’s best, yule pay me dat ten dollars you
owes me.” :

BY THE SIDE OF THE ROAD

There are curious souls who delight to know

Of flappers and moonshine and jazz;

Who think when they see a young cake-eater
drunk

That’s the spirit that every youth has.

There are gossiping felk who like to tell

Of all the scandal they can

| But I like to park by the side of the road

And arouse the suspicion of man.

Let me darken my car by the side of the road
Where the line of cars go by.

Let me draw my curtains and pull down my

shades

As if two there were shy.

I would not sit where the blazing lights reveal my
my little plan.

| I would park my car by the side of the road

And arouse the suspicion of man.

I see from my car by the side of the road

Eyes that cut like a knife mens

Eyes that gaze with a look of disgust

And turn and wink at their wife.

I laugh up my sleeve at their frowns and their

For I have a definite plan
I park my car by the side of the road
Just to arouse the suspicions of man.
—Contributed.
Gakys:
3 DOWN IN FLORIDA
A new boom swo¢ps clean.
Realtors wise and Northerners foolish,
A-sub-division is the shortest distance between two
real estate offices.
Never count your mortgages until they are due.
He who laughs last is an Englishman.

