Vol. XIII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 8, 1925

R DAVIDSO

om

No. 4

=

W

is)

Omicron Delta Kappa to’
Include Eight New Men

In Coveted Membership

° Fs |
Bids Extended to Eight Members of | : : :
\for the occasion by the Southern Railway
| Company, one of the transportation com-

Senior Class
STUDENT BODY LEADING

These Men Have Distinguished
Themselves in Every Phase of
Campus Life

On last Monday night eight men, members
of the Senior class, were extended bids to
join the Omicron Delta Kappa Fraternity,
the highest honor conferred upon a student.
The men thus honored were:

J. W. Anderson,

T. S. Baker.

L, L. Deck.

R. W. Graves.

G. F, Laird.
C. F. Monk.
IE. K. Regen.

' D. G. Wilson.

These men have demonstrated their claim
to leadership in various phases cf college
life.

L. L. Deck, who is from Atlanta, Ga., won
his spurs as one of the best managers of
school publications who haS€ver been at Da-
vidson. He is captain of Company “D” in
the battalion, was editor of the “Y” hand-
book, and in addition to these honors he is
business manager of Quips and Cranks. He
is also a member of the “Y” Cabinet and the
Court of Control.

R. W. Graves came to Davidson from
Rome, Ga., and at once won fame as an ex-
ceptional scholar and continued to prove it
by making the highest average in his class.
“Bob” is a member of ‘Sigma Pi Sigma,
Sigma Upsilon, the Philosophy Club, and the

(Continued on page 5)

Wildkittens Primed For
Battle With High Point

High Point’s Victory Over Oak
Ridge Indicates That Game
Will Be Close

The» Davidson Wildkittens have been
sharpening their claws under the direction of
Coach Monk Mattox for four long weeks
and are now putting on the finishing touches
for their initial contest with High Point
College, when they journey up to High Point
tomorrow.

The Freshmen will have a stiff fight be-
fore them as they have.an unusually light ag-
gregation. High Point has already shown
their prowess by defeating the strong Oak
Ridge team last Saturday by a 9-6 score.

The line of the yearling team is as yet
uncertain and there have been frequent
scrimmages to try men out. Wenberg seems
to be the best bet for quarter, and Kell,
James, Myers and Flinn seem to be the best
halfs. Flinn is out, however, on account of
a “charley horse” received two wecks ago.

Sam Black will probably be fullback. The
team scrimmaged the scrubs Monday and are
perfecting their offensive for the coming

encounter. The probable line-up will be:

High Point. Position. Davidson.
Manning-_- -LE -- ~~ ~~ McConnell
BillielSseee 2 se BTe ts 2 eeaVance
Dimarco-_---.-~ oe LGa snus Gos Smith.
Dallases— 2. .2226.---G-_ Kerr,
Wrartordssssss ss nae RG -- -- -- -- LeFever
Method (C) ------- RT -- -- -- -- Ritchie
Peterson___..--__-- RE -- -- ~~ ~~ -+ Monk

HB-. ~~ James or Flinn
HB _. Myers or Kell
Panchos 22225523222 FB .. .. -- -: =2 Black
Gleason___-------__ QB -_ -- -- Wenberg

|Excited Students

DCATS UPSET DOPE IN T)

if

Ride to Big Game
On Special Train

The Wake Forest “Special” was provided

It

| panies serving the students of Davidson.

|was scheduled to leave Davidson at 1:30,

jand it did! There was a wild scramble for
| seats, and the students filled the three
| coaches like water fills a glass. The fourth
coach, attached to the engine, was the ex-
| clusive parking place for the janitors and
‘their friends, ;

| The train chugged laboriously out of the
| Davidson terminal station, and the boys
| waved a merry farewell to the depot loafers
Jand others. Then “Bo” MeMillan decided !
| the car needed some decoration, so he put a
few Freshmen to work on the artistic deco-
rating of the coaches,

The first stop was at Cornelius, N.C. The
exact reason for this stop is not known, but
some said the engineer stopped to let a cer-
tain faculty member in his automobile catch
up so they might race into Charlotte. Any-
way there was a wild race between the loco-
motive on the track and the car on the high-
way running practically parallel with the
tracks. First the train took the lead, and
when it slowed down, out of breath, the
Dodge whizzed past.

Desiring a litthke more harmony in the
racket, Peterson and Shorty Howell organ-
ized a singing class in one of the smokers.
The songs attempted were as varied as the
neckties of the singers, and the results were

(Continued on page 3)

Juniors Plan For
Speaking Term

Tentative plans have been drawn up to
make Junior Speaking this year the best
ever. While as yet no definite arrangements
have been made about the program, there
are ideas being originated that promise some-
thing entirely new and interesting this year.
Committees have been appointed by Harllee
Branch, the chairman, and the whole Junior
class is being urged to. work up interest and
put out all they have for the one big Junior
event that has become an annual event on
the hill.

At a meeting of the Junior class Monday
morning the question for a new name for
the magazine that is published cach year at
this time, was brought up. It was suggested
that the name be retained that was used last
year—‘‘Sanity Rare.” However, no agree-
ment could be reached and the matter was
placed in the hands of the committee to de-
cide upon a suitable name.

The speaking this year will no doubt fol-
low the same general lines that it did last
year. Some new arrangements have been
made, however. Besides the speaking that
features the event, there will be special music
by the eleven-piece orchestra that is to make
the Glee Club tours. Plans are being made
for an inter-class track meet to take place
besides the baseball game that is played each
year at this time. Besides the special movies
there will be a series of dramatic plays given
by the Dramatic club.

With the co-operation of the whole
Junior class the big Easter event should go
off exceptionally well this year. Although
the class has diminished in numbers there is
sti)).an-abundance of 20d talent in the class,
and a large part of it is expected to show
up in work that is needed to put such an en-
tertainment through.

Five committees have been appointed to
handle the various phases of the Junior
Speaking program. These committees are
as follows:

(Continued on page 3)

SCORES TOUCHDOWN

LUCIAN WELLS

Guilford and Davidson
Prepare for Game Here
On Saturday Afternoon

Quakers Hope to Shake Jinx That
Has Haunted Them This Season

The Wake Forest game being a thing of
the past, all eyes are now turned to the Wild-
cat-Quaker fracas to be staged on Richard-
son Field next Saturday.

The Davidson team will enter the game
with a record of two wins, one draw and no
defeat, having won over Elon in the opening
game of the season, and over Wofford, play-
ing Wake Forest to a 7-7 tie. Guilford has
been less fortunate in their opening games;
losing to Duke and Elon, but they showed
more form in the gatne of last weck.

The Wildcats are slightly bruised up as a
result of the Wage Forest game, but con-
sidering the class of football they played,
they came out with few injuries. The Quak-
ers are reported to be in first-class condition.

Comparing scores, Davidson should win as
they won over the Elon team in the opener
of the season by a 34-0 count, and the Chris-
tians downed Guilford last week by a 7-0
margin, but little can be said of comparative
scores. Guilford will come with the de-
termination to fight hard and a scrappy game
can be expected.

The probable line-up follows :
Guilford.

Position . Davidson.
.LE -- -- -- -- Pinkney
IT soe Bes ce Laird
aeoee LG eases 2 = Vance

(Continued on page 2)

WIT.

Pictures Success
In Business Line

Mr. Cameron Beek, personnel direetor of
the New York Stock exchange, gave a very
interesting and inspiring lecture last Monday
evening to a large crowd of students, faculty
Mr. Beck's ad-

dress was the second of a series of lectures

members and town people.

arranged by the faculty committee of lee-
tures,

The main theme of Mr. Beck's lecture was
the cost of leadership. Hle stressed the fact
that the position one wished to hold was
dependent on the work that he was willing
to expend for it. “It is useless to strive for
leadership unless you wish to pay the price,

TL want to summon you not to any easy road
but to a road of service, the benefit of man-
\kind,” the speaker said.

“TL come to you tonight,” he continued, “as
a business man, net a lecturer, preacher or
Isut merely to let
some of the positions and) predicaments 1
about to enter into
During the last

teacher. you know of
have young men
manhood find themselves,
year in my office many boys have come
hunting for a position, Practically all of
them have an idea that there is a mystical
tree in Wall Street under whieh one can go
to sleep and another kind person will come
along, shake the tree and gold dollars will
shower upon you. In all my years T have
never seen this tree nor anything approach-

secn

ing it.”
He continued along the ‘theme of the neces-
sity of a real ambition in one before they
(Continued on page 6)

Blue Pencil Club.

Honors Five Men

Five new members, R. W. Graves, W. Tf.
Allison, W. I. Milton, T.-C. Barr, and H.
» Shaw, were initiated into the Blue Pencil
chapter of Sigma Upsilon at a meeting held
Soth new

Monday evening of dhis week.
men and the old members experienced an
enjoyable time at this session which included
both mental and physical’ refreshment.

All the neWomembers were chosen with
respect to their literary ability and their in-
terest in literary affairs. They have shown
a marked interest in the publications here at
Davdson, and ther work on such has been of
an excellent quality. Their election to Sigma
Upsilon comes as a reward to conscientious
work and endeavor,

W. H. Allison won his spurs in an essay
contest last fall which was conducted by the
marked literary ability. the
best students on the hill and is a member
of a number of the honorary fraternities.

W. H.
conest last fall which was conducted by the
literary societies. In addition to this his
work in the Reporters’ Club and along vari-
ous other literary lines clearly entitle him to
this signal honor.

He is one of

Allison won his spure in an essay

W. E. Milton, as a member of The David-
sonian staff for three years and as head of
the Davidson press bureau has won quite an
enviable fame as a journalist and literary
artist in general.

T. C. Barr has been the author of several

brilliant essays in the magazine and
widely recognized as one of the original
literary lights of the school.
4 ~4.. Shaw, as editor-in-chief of Quips
and Cranks, and as a former member of The
Davidsonian staff, holds a foremost place
among the literary stars of the hill and
unquestionably merits this reward.

Sigma Upsilon is a national fraternity in-
cluding chapters in a number of our leading
colleges and universities. Election to Sigma

(Continued on page 6)

is

H WAKE FOREST

Six Thousand Fans See
Wildcats and Baptists
In Spectacular Battle

Surprise Attack by Davidson in
Third Quarter Overcomes
Baptist Lead
| GAME ENDS IN 7-7 TIE
|Garrity’s Demon Deacons Unable to

Check Onslaught of Inspired
Wildcats Warriors

Just as the sun was sinking behind, the
grandstands on Wearn Field, Charlotte, last
Saturday afternoon, the litte Davidson Wild-
cats, with a great pep meeting the night be-
fore ingrained upon their memory, slashed
their way over far heavier opponents in the
third period of a great battle, for a touch-
down, and.a few minutes later, the seldom-
failing toe Red) Laird the oval
through the posts that tied Wake Forest,
7 to 7, and sent-a thrill down the spine of
thousands of spectators, whose sentiment that
day was for the doughty Presbyterian lads.

of sent

Approximately six thousand spectators saw
the eleven red jerseymen of Davidson, out-
weighed in the line 17 pounds to the man,
and in the backfield five pounds to man, send
the Demon Deacons back to Wake Forest,
not with a three-touchdown vietory, as had
been predicted, but with only seven points,
which had been duplicated by the Wildeats.

It was one of fhe greatest upsets in North
football. their 6-0
win over Carolina the Saturday previous,
the Baptists had been prematurely declared
state champions. But the Wildeats, their ire
aroused by Wake
Forest, and by the prophetic declaration that
Wake Forest was the best team in the state,
fought like demons themselves to alleviate

(Continued on page 8)

Carolina Sy virtue of

the odds being granted

Dr. Oren Moore Delivers
Inspiring Address at ‘Y’
Noted Charlotte Physician Speaks

to Davidson Students on Theme
of Leadership

Charlotte
A, vespers Sunday
“The Man Who

Dr. Oren Moore,
spoke at the Y. M. C,
evening on the subject,
Would Be King.”

“That this is an interesting topic,” said
the speaker, “is proven by the fact that au-
thors have dealt with it. Writers
have seen fit to appeal to the public through
the sense of feeling which a man has for one
who is struggling for leadership.

“The joy with which we follow. the suc-
cess of men, the marriage men to
princesses, and other such subjects shows
what an appeal it makes.

“There is a desire in the heart of every
man to acquire leadership. And every man
who ever was a leader has spent a long
time in preparation for it, or he would not
know the front from the rear of the crown;
he would not know how to act.”

Dr. Moore then said that it was under-
stood that he was dealing with those who
aspired to be leaders in a spiritual or reli-
gious clement.

“What are the necessary characteristics of
a kingship?” asked the speaker. “There
are several which seem to me to be absolutely
necessary before a man can be a good king.

“First, the end to be sought by this leader
must be the right end. He must not be
selfish, but he must be willing to serve the
people.

“Absalom had a desire to be a king, but
he was desirous from a selfish standpoint
and he died a grotesque, I might almost say,

(Continued on page 5)

physician,

often

ot

