THE DAVIDSONIAN, ‘OCTOBER 8, 1925

ALUMNI

Play-By-Play

Rev. F. E. Manning, ex-’21, graduated,
at Union Theological Seminary last May
and was married on July 23rd at New-
berry, S. C., to Miss Josephine Boozer.

Rev. H. N. McDiarmid, ’11, for five
years pastor of the Rocky Mount Pres-
byterian Church and for the same period
of time in a like charge at Kinston has
accepted the call to the pastorate of the
Presbyterian Church at Shelby.

Rev. J. E. Consar is now on his first
furlough from Japan where he has been
working in the mission field.

Rey. J. I. Knight spent the summer
touring Europe.

Mr. and Mrs. D. W. Lane, '23, of Na-
hunte, Ga., visited the college recently.

W. Gilbert Morrison, former Davidson
student, graduated on the 5th of June
from the University of Memphis Law
School. He is now residing in Memphis.

Dr. B. R. Lacy, Jr., dedicated the Frank
Thompson Gymnasium on Alumni day at
North Carolina State College. Both Dr.
Lacy and Dr. Thompson graduated from
Davidson, Dr. Lacy going as a Rhodes
scholar to Oxford and Dr. Thompson,
“the soldier, gentleman and athlete,
glorious, brave and clean,” as spoken of
by Dr. Lacy, was killed at Rigenville,
France in the World War.

Clarence Rothwell Wilcox is now pres-
ident of the Darlington School for Boys
at Rome, Ga.

Samuel Horton Askew, ’20, former ed-
itor of the Davidsonian and Valedictorian
of his class, is head-master of Darling-

ton, \

)at Columbia last Saturday:

NOTES |

Emory Flinn, ‘19, is now living in Tam-

Here is a detailed account of how the
pa, Fla.

| Wildcats upset the dope Saturday by

Paul Guthery is now engaged in the | holding Wake Forest to a 7-7 tie:
real estate business in Charlotte. First Quarter

Grey, of Davidson, kicked 35 yards to
Rackley, who returned to 20-yard line.
Greason skirted end for 20 yards and first
down. Failing to gain but oné yard in
two plays, Rackley passed to Ober, who
gained 20 yards and first down, Rackley
plunged five yards over tackle, and on
the next play Greason skimmed end for
25 yards and a touchdown, Ellerbe
kicked goal.

Rackley, of Wake Forest, kicked to
Davidson, Baker receiving. Eight yards
were gained in three downs, and Grey
; kicked. Wake Forest fumbled it, Me-
MS Connell recovering for Davidson on Wake
the Forest's 33-yard line. Wells and Hen-

drix in two plays placed the ball on Wake

James G. Driver, director of student Forest's 20-yard line for a first down, and
activities at Carolina, was the coach of drives by Wells, Black and Hendrix gain-
the Camp Jackson team and he will tell ed*nine. On the next play Hendrix fail-
anyone that Black was the star of his ed to gain and the ball changed hands on
backfield, although there stars Wake It-yard line. Rackley
available from some of the greatest teams kicked 73 yards to 15-yard line, with no
in the country. return, Grey kicked for Davidson after

4

|
Charles Tuller is in the cotton busi-
ness in Atlanta, Ga.
Johnnie. Bachman,
Georgia Tech.

ex'26, is now at

The Columbia State has. the following
to say of Jack Black, ’19, who officiated
in the game between the two Carolinas

Great Back

When Black’s name comes into the
picture, one can not but recall his work
on the famous Camp Jackson team of
the fall of 1017 and his brilliant play
later in France as a member of
Eighty-first division eleven.

were Forest's

At Bar sur Aube, France, in the winter
of 1919, Black was a back on the Wild-
cat team in the semi-finals of the A, E.
FF, On the other team was the famous
and brilliant Eddie Mahan, whose name
still stands at the top of the Harvard
tadder of fame. On that particular day
Eddie had nothing on Jack. After the
war Black returned to Davidson and
played his final year of collegiate ball.

Hillhouse Talks Before ;

Ministerial Candicates;

Ministerial Band Holds Inspiring
Meeting on Sunday Afternoon

The principal point of interest at the
meeting of the Ministerial Band held Sun-
day afternoon was a talk by Albert Hill-
house, executive secretary of the Y. M.
GivAy

The meeting was opened with a song,
followed by a prayer led by J. H. Cali- |
gan, Hill, and McColgan.

After this Ernest Milton made a short,
emphatic plea for Christian Endeavor,
calling attention to its several advan-
tages and its pronounced success, and
urging that it be taken up to a greater.
extent by the Presbyterian Church.

Scripture was read by the president,
Bowie, and prayers were offered by Joe
Garrison, Julian Lake, and Moye.

After a brief introduction by Bowie,
Hillhouse spoke to the band. His talk
was impressive and forceful, and carried |
a strong message to his hearers, The |
subject “Influence” was his topic. He
began his talk with quotations from an
editorial in “Personal Efficiency,” which
stressed the fact that in any organized
community the test of a man is his in-
fluence with other men. Influence was
then compared to our lives, the speaker
stating that in reality we live two lives—
one that we actually go through and one
of influence upon others. Influence in|
life was compared to a by-product, and
attention called to the fact that a by-
Product is often much more valuable
than the principal product itself.

The poem “Pippa Passes,” by Brow: |
ing was offered as a shining example of
the work influence may perform.

The closing portion of the talk was
concerning influence at Davidson, the
speaker talking directly to what he term- |
ed the most potent factor of Christianity |
—the men who are Preparing for the |
ministry. They were reminded that it is |
not necessary to go far afield to do good |
work, but that opportunities present
themselves, here on the campus, to use

their influence for the good of Christian-
ity.

In closing, Hillhouse read @ paper, “A
Worker’s Prayer,” and left with his hear-
ers this message; that they ask them-
selves, “What am I doing with my influ-

ence on the campus of Davidson?”

The coaches and the players were big fac-
tors in the contest. But we do not want
to forget to the student body. Just how much
that tremendous pep meeting on Friday night
had to do with the spirit of that fight can
never be estimated, but it was conquering
spirit that was manifested, and seemed to
pervade the fight on the field that afternoon.

|Three Meets Scheduled

for Cross-Country Team

Seven Men Will Be Picked From
Field of Twenty Runners

The prospects are bright this year for
a good cross-country team at Davidson.
Heretofore small interest has been shown
in this branch of track and consequently
few meets have been entered and very
little accomplished all around. This year
however the team has a schedule of three
meets to look forward to and work for:

N. C. State, at Davidson, October 31.

Duke, at Davidson, November 28,

State Meet, at Durham, (Undecided).

The team can only accommodate seven
men and as there are over 20 candidates
out the competition will be strong. Four
men from last year’s team are back again,

|with a large number of Freshmen and
| upperclassmen to push them for places on

the team. As an added incentive to hard
work, Coach Tilson announced that if
enough points were annexed during the
season merit the honr, letters in cross-
country might be given.

The track squad turned out Monday
for fall practice. They will be coached
by Gracey, captain of the track team last
year. A large number of new men were
out for the sprints and field events in ad-
dition to quite a few of last year’s var-
sity men. This week will be spent in
conditioning the men for regular work
next week.

|

Cheer-Leader Assistants
Are Story and Williams

|Two Junior Assistants Selected

From Field of Seven Candidates

On Saturday morning, October 3rd, the
election for Junior cheer-leaders was
held. There were. seven candidates for
the two positions to be filled. The two
men elected to assist “Chick” Monk in
leading the Wildcat yells were C. W.
‘Clancy) Williams and W. R. (Bill)
Story. The other candidates were Mc-
Connell, Bordeaux, Merchison, Caligan
and Kornegay.

Williams is a native of Alabama, hail- |
ing from Montgomery. Story is from!
Marion, N. C., and is a brother of Da-
vison’s famous cheer-leader in ’21 and 122,
“Henkie” Story. It is generally conceded
that “Henkie” was the best cheer-leader
Davidson ever had. “Bill” bids gair to
walk in his brother’s footsteps.

Williams and Story made their first ap-
pearance as members of the regular
cheer-leading staff at the Wake Forest
game Saturday. From their action’ in
this game, under the able direction of
Monk, it looks like Davidson has three
cheer-leaders of which she can duly be
proud. : :

|

two plays. Wake Forest ran a couple,
and kicked. Wells made a great run for
wo yards and first. Black gained four,
dittoed by Wells, which ended the half,
the ball in Davidson's possessién on

‘ake Forest's go-yard line, third down |

and two to go. Score: Wake Forest 7;

Davidson o,

Second Quarter

Wells made seven yards and first on
the initial play. Black and Grey é¢om-
bined to make 9 1-2 yards, but Black fail-
ed to gain on third down, his fumble-on
the fourth being recovered by Rackley,
of Wake Forest, on his own 18-yard line.
Karleskint and Greason made 9 in three
plays, eight of them Karleskint’s . Rack-
ley kicked,
After Wake Forest had netted two yards
by Oberance tore through and nabbed
him for a five-yard loss. Rackley kick-
ed, Grey making a beautiful return. Fail-
ing to gain, Laird then kicked and fol-
lowed by a no-gain of Greason’s, that
same player made 25 yards over tackle,
putting the ball on Davidson's 30-yard
line. No gain by Karleskint.

Rackley passes to Riley for five yards.
Ober gets four. Greason steps out of
bounds for one-half yard, and the ball
over to Davidson on the fourth

Hendrix lost two. Black failed to
gain, a pass was incomplete, and Laird
kicked Wake Forest’s 40-yard line.
Fair catch signalled. Wake Forest soon
chose to kick, and Hendrix, of Davidson
decided he would try a few passes, three
straight ones being incomplete.

Laird then kicked to Wake
four-yard line, Rackley, evidently lost as
to the location of the ball, grabbing it as
it was headed over the last line, failing to
return. After Sykes gained seven yards
for Wake Forest in two plays, the half
ended the ball in Wake Forest's posses-
sion on her own 11-yard line, third down
and three yards to go. Score: Wake
Forest 7; Davidson o.

Third Quarter

Grey, Davidson, kicked to Rackley on
to-yard line, the ball being returned 20
yards. Immediately followed three first
downs for Wake Forest. Greason g¢lip-
ping off 11 yards for the first. Karleskint
and Ober made the second and third first
downs, both players being called upon
twice in the four plays necessary. Two
plays by Wake Forest netted zero yards,
and a pass, Rackley to Riley, was ground-
ed. Attempting to drop kick, Davidson

goes
down,

to

Forest's

blocked the punt, the ball being here in;

midfield. The tide turned here, and with-
out losing the ball Davidson marched
across for the touchdown. Grey gained
five in two plays. A pass, Grey to Hen-
drix, netted 15 yards and first.

Black gained seven
plays, which, aided by one yard by Wells,.,
counted for first down.
three, ‘Hendrix duplicating.
Hendrix dittoed performance of a few
minutes before, Hendrix snagging a pass
from Grey for 13 yards and first, putting
the ball on Wake Forest’s one-half yard
line. Black failed in two attempts, as
well as Hendrix, on a third. Well then
wriggied tRrough fer the touchdown.
Laird kicked extra point.

Rackley kicked off to Davidson’s three-
yard line, but a return by Grey placed it
on Davidson’s own 35-yard line. Gaining
nine yards in three plays, Hendrix called
on Grey to kick. Wake Forest went out
of bounds for no gain. Ober got two,

yards in three |

;own 30-yard line, fourth down, and 11 to
| go.

Failing to gain, Grey kicked. |,

Wells gained |
Grey and,

but-Laird threw Greason for thre-yard

loss. Here the quarter ended, the ball
being in Wake Forest’s possession on her

Open Now for Service

HOT DOGS AND ALL GOOD
THINGS TO EAT

Score. Wake Forest 7; Davidson 7.
Fourth Quarter

Rackley kicked’ to 20-yard line, Grey
returning five. Black lost three and Grey
kicked to Wake Forest's 42-yard line for
a fair catch. Rackley gained five, but
Ober and Chalkles were stopped for no
gain, Rackley then kicking. Black gain-
ed two, and Grey kicked, Rackley re-
ceiving, and as he started down at a fast
(Continued on page 8)

CASHION CAFE

Davidson, N. C.

WE SELL

Spalding, Wright & Ditson, Gold-
smith, Reach, O’Shea Knit Goods.

Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.

18 East Trade St. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Young Men Can’t
Afford to Wear Ordinary
Clothes

Ordinary clothes cost the wearer re-
spect, prestige, confidence —things
that no young man can afford to sac-
rifice,

If your suit bears the Mellon label,
it’s no ordinary suit. You may feel
sure of the correct style, the expert
tailoring and the fine quality that is in
it. And, after you have worn it, you
will naiurally feel that the price was
not excessive.

“Dress well and

succeed”

MELLON’S

“EVERYTHING MUSICAL”

PIANOS, PLAYER-PIANOS
VICTROLAS

RECORDS AND ROLLS

Band instruments of all kinds, stringed instruments

SHEET MUSIC

OLDEST IN THE STATE

ANDREW

MUSIC 213
STORE N. Tryon St.

HOUSE, SEE

WHITLEY-WILKINSON CO.

MOORESVILLE, N. C.
