THEDAVI

FOR - BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. Cc, MARCH 12, 1925

DSONIAN

Songbirds from Queens College Please
lane Audience With Program of Song

A-plenty for for Excited Boys
The Friskies Provide Thrills

MISS HOLMES STARS
Harmony of Chorus Especially Good

—Numbers Are Encored Consist-
ently by Delighted Hearers

The Queens College Glee Club gave an
excellent entertainment before an enthusi-
astic audience last Friday night in Shearer
Hall. The hall was practically filled with
- Davidson students who showed their appreci-
ation of the numbers by hearty applause and
by insisting on encorgs for many of the}
selections. The program as a whole was
one, which appealed to a college audience,
consisting largely of popular music by the
orchestral, though choruses and solos, in- |
strumental and vocal, played a prominent |
part.

The jazz orchestra, The Friskies, was ex-
ceptionally good and formed ‘the main at-
traction for the students. It played almost
entirely late popular music, and played it
well. The unique costumes of The Friskies,
covered with musical notes, added to their |
charm, while the xylophone, a new thing in
college orchestras, played by Miss Carolil
Graham, shows their originality.

The unrivaled “hits” of the evening were |
the song Yoo Tired, sung by Miss Eunice
Graham, and the song Doodle De Doo and)
parodies sung by Misses Peace, English, Pen-
ny, Stevens, Brown and Martin. Both of
these songs were accompanied by the or-!
chestra. The audience called for them sev-
eral times and Miss Graham
towards the end of the program.

The chorus was well trained and showed
good talent in rendering several selections
with great skill. Miss Beulah Holmes, in
leading the chorus and in her solo, The
Awakening, displayed a charming voice.

(Continued on page 7)

Ouins ail Cranks Ready
for Prompt Publication

Success of 1925 Annual is Assured as
Last of Material Goes to Printers

sang again

The editor-in-chief, J. A. Lake, announces
that all but about 10 pages of the 1925
Quips and Cranks have been sent to the
printer, These few pages are being held
back in order to get all the usual pictures
published. Although some of these pictures
have just been taken, the photographer prom- |
ises to have the prints ready in a few days.
As soon as these prints are sent in, the staff |
can give a sigh of relief and take a deserved |
rest after having worked all year.

Milhous announces that the annual is going
to press this year with a very bright finan- |
cial outlook. He states that there is no+
chance of the publication coming out it
debt. This condition is due to the excellent
work of the managers and the willing sup- |
port of the students.

The publication of Quips and Cranks is
always an event of much interest to the stu-
dent body and to many others interested in
Davidson activities. Therefore all will be/|

glad to hear that the 1025 issue will be ready |

for distribution about the middle of May.

This issue will contain several new features |
and each page will be full of interesting | i
things.

The Davidson annual has always held a
very high place among the publications of
the Southern colleges, but this year the
annual is expected to be even better than
_ before as every. department tas doce handled.
by able and efficient men. Although Qutps
and Cranks is published under the auspices
of the Senior class, the entire student body
send in their contributions and most of the
boys have ordered a copy to keep in remem-
brance of their college days.

n | existence of God.

\Local Orators Plan to
Enter National Contest

Attractive Prizes Offered to Win-
ning Participants in Nation-wide
Oratorical Contest

A trial contest will be held on April 6 to
choose Davidson's representative in the Na-
tional Intercollegiate Oratorical
which is to be fostered by the Better
ican Federation of California. The United
States, for the contest, is divided into seven

contest,

| districts, one of which comprises the South-

ern States.

The manuscript of the contestants is due
April 17 in Washington, and seven speakers
will be chosen on the merits of these manu-
scripts. The winners will compete at Nash-
ville, Tenn., on May 18. The winner of this
contest will meet the winners of the
other districts at Los Angeles, Cal., on June
5. Entries must be sent to A. W. Fleming,
604 Hibbs Building, Washington, D. C., by
March 25,

The orations must not require more than
10 minutes for their delivery and must be
on one of the following subjects: The Con-
stitution, Washington and the Constitution,
Hamilton and the Constitution, Jefferson and

(Continued on page 3)

six

Dr. Clegg Sways
Vesper Audience
By Fine Address

Who Is God? was the subject of the ad-'

dress at the Y. M. C. A, vesper service last
Sunday evening. The speaker was Rev. Mr.
Clegg, pastor the Davidson Methodist
Church. The main thought developed was
How Shall We Think of God?

“Man’s lack of understanding of God is
due to his infidelity. Few men even think of
God. They assume that God is in heaven,
taking care of His own business, apart from
the world, and let it stop there.”

The speaker continued by stating that there
are several different conceptions of God
which have existed in the minds men.

ot

of

| One of these was that God is being seated

on a throne apart from all things, and out of
touch with the petty finiteness and frailty of
man. This idea was prevalent during the
period from the Sime of Augustine to Des-
cartes.

Another theory was that God is to be seen
in all the works of nature. This theory,

| Pantheism, teaches that nature is God, and

God is nature. Everything in nature is a
manifestation of the soul and mind of God.
| Nature is God living.

Later, psychologists advanced the view
that God only exists in the minds of men.
Outside of the minds of men there is no
This view conceives of
God and conscience as one.

Mr. Clegg proceeded to show that these
theories have never really satisfied men.
They do not contain the essentials of content-
ment. Experience, the cue to discovery, sug-
| gests that there ‘are two factors in real ex-

| perience, one of them being subjective, and |

the other objective. | The subjective factor is
in the thoughts, emotions and desires of the
mind, heart and soul of man. The objective

‘Lively Interest Shown

Amer- |

is found in the Creator, the everlasting God. |

the experience that Paice theories.

Experience is at the i the circle of

relations. This experience of united rela-

tionship with God is brought about in sev-

ecal ways.

The first of these means of bringing about
this experience of united relationship with
God is through knowledge of the truth.
Knowledge presupposes something finite,
rather than a mere evolution of ideas. A

(Continued on page 8)

| The two are interrelated so as to give man)

As Students Take Part
In Exciting T Track Meet __.

Abundance of Track T Talent Revealed
When New Men Compete

BIG PRIZES AWARDED

A. E. Gray Leads Contestants in
Scoring With John Melton Trail-
ing Close Behind

With the first appearance of spring on the
Wildcat campus the aspiring track men_ hit
the cinders in a free-for-all track and_ field
day event Friday All students
were eligible with the exception of letter men,
and there were many contestants. Prizes had
been previously offered to the winners. of
each event and to the two men with the high-
est final score, by the local concerns.

afternoon,

As there were no letter men in the event,
no records were smashed, although some of
the men showed their ability and the David-
son track authorities were well pleased with

the contests as some idea was gained as to)

the available material for the coming tracis
season.
From the shot at the beginning of the

100-yard dash until the rumble of the rolling
by Ernest Bohannon had died
away, the events were closely contested.
John Currie, the Fresh class, won the
100-yard dash with a time of 10.3 seconds,
and with some training and coaching he
should be able te snake it i less time. Much
attention was attracted by the mile run, in
which J, A. Thompson outdistanced Gudger
on the final lap. Again attention was drown
by the two-mile run which J. B. Webb cineh-
ed in a final spurt. No one will forget the
high jump which Red Evans and H. G.
Goodykoontz fought so hard, but the latter
finally went a ‘notch higher than the fatigued
Evans.

The Freshmen showed up well in the event
and are expected to contribute much toward
making the track team for this year a suc-

discus cast

of

cess. A, E, Grey had the highest final score
with 13 points, while J. W. Melton stood
second with 10 points. The weather was

ideal and the track was in good condition.
The events, first three winners and time
follow:
100-yard dash—J. M. Currie, R.
and J. W. Melton. (10:3).
220-yard dash—J. M. Currie and Goody-

A. Brand,

koontz tied for first place with Rk. S.. Law-
rance third. (23:2).
440-yard dash—J. I. Pinkney, R. L. Me-

Millian, L,. D. Wharton. (56:9.
880-yard run—R. B. Parker, J. W. Kearns
and W. S. ee (2 min, 21 sec.)
Mile run—-J. A. Thompson, J. R. Gudger
and: C,1a, ae (5 min. 17 sec.)
Two-mile run—J. B. Webb, W. F. Stigler
and C, J. McGehee. (11 min. 25 sec.)
120-yard high hurdles—A. EF. Grey, N. G.
Patterson and A. D. Malloy. (23:21).
(Continued on page 8)

DON’T FORGET

THE
Rudyard Kipling Recital
Professor Carl Wachter

SHEARER HALL

Friday Evening, March 20
At 8:15 o’Clock

All Seats Reserved Admission 50c

Eight Intercollegiate Debaters Chosen
from List of Fifte Fifteen Likely Candidates

Death Takes Jack k Miller.
From Midst of Students

Popular Member of Junior Class
Succumbs at His Home After
Brief Illness

One of the
curred in’ some
Miller,
which
campus,

saddest deaths that has oe-
time was that of John W.
known to Davidson students a “Jack,”
cast a shadow the Davidson
and caused shock

over
a severe to his
friends here when a message was received an-
nouncing that he “had died last
ernoon at his home in Laurens,
was a member of the Junior and his
classmates particularly were to
learn that for the second time this scholastic
classmate had been called by the
Supreme Ruler, a classmate whose roommate
had earlier in the
call.

It was not known by many of the students
that Jack was seriously ill, and few of them
knew that he had gone home. He first be-
came ill on February 24, but was discharged
from the infirmary on the morning of the
27th. That afternoon he became nauseated,
and on Saturday returned to the infirmary,
He became very despondent over his illness,

(Continued on page 7)

Friday aft-
SC ke
class,
sorrowful

year a

year answered that same

Anthology Issue
Of Magazine Off
Press This Week

On the approaching Saturday, March 14,
The Davidson College Magazine will come
off the press fully complete in every respect
and with a very high standard of efficiency.
Next Monday will see the magazine delivered
to the college students, and also mailed to
many others, number of
alumni, The present plans for distribution
to the Davidson students are quite dissimilar
from the past manner of giving it out to them
through the forcit has
been thought more advisable to deliver the
magazines to the students in their respective
rooms,

including a fair

post office service,

Although this will be the only issue of the
magazine for 1924-1025, account
heavy debt incurred on tthe 1923-24 issues, the
students and alumni are assured that every-
thing possible has been done to make up for
this deficiency by an attractiveness and an
efficiency together with an increased size;
all of which are peculiar to the coming issue.
The quality of the paper used, the division
of departments, and the make-up of the cn-
tire issue, will well justify the amount of
labor which was necessary for its publication.
The printers of the magazine, the Washburn

on of a

Printing Company, of Charlotte, N. C., are |

_ very high in their praise of the magazine and
‘declare that it is unquestionably the best issue
in every respect that the college has gotten
out.

The coming issue boasts of a total num-
ber of 80 pages, which includes all the print-

| ed matter excepting the two covers. This is
more than twice the normal size of the
| magazine.

The publication called for 1,000 copies in
order that there would be no deficiency in
|number. It is thought that there will be
| quite a number left over, but no doubt these

Rall be promptly bought by students for ,

mailing to friends.

Present indications point to a successful

| magazine financially, and also that last year’s...

{debt will be paid off satisfactorily.

|
| Dr. and Mrs. W. B. MclIlwaine, of Kochi,

Japan, the parents of Chalmers and Heber |

MclIlwaine, arrived Monday. They will stay

at the home of Mrs. L. R. Smith for sev- '

eral weeks.

Judges Have Diffic Difficult Task in
Selecting Winning Speakers

TWO TEAMS SELECTED

Wake Forest and Presbyterian Col-
lege Scheduled for Forensic
Battles This s Spring

Fifteen men who had been working for
several weeks on their material presented it
before & group of five judges in the Inter-
collegiate Debate trials, held in Dr. J. M.
MeConnell’s classroom ‘Tuesday evening,
March 3.

Hight men were selected as representatives
of Davidson in the two intercollegiate debates
that will be entered this spring. Wake For-
est will be met at Queens College the first
week in’ May, and Presbyterian College of
South Carolina comes to Davidson the latter
part of April.

The same query stands in both debates:
Resolved, That Congress should be empow-
ered to override by two-thirds vote decisions
of the Supreme Court declaring acts of Con-
gress wniconstitutional, Against Wake
est the Wildcats the negative,
against J. C. the affirmative.

D. B. Wharton officiated as chairman and
time-keeper.

For-

take and

Those trying for places were;
ALC. Hi. D. Price, A. M. Martin; A.
Y. Bowie, HL. 1. Shaw, 1. D. Wharton, P.
M. Patterson, J. 1. Holtshouser, W. A. Pat-
terson, C. E. Houston, R. R. Parker, W. 1.
Milton, B. Us Ratehford, T. C. Barr, and W.
Hf. Branch, Of this number all except Shaw
and Holtshouser presented the negative side

Ray,

of the query.
After considerable deliberation at the con-
clusion of the speeches, the judges chose

cight men to participate in the remaining de-
bates of this semester, Professors Wachter,
Brown, J. M. MeConnell, Currie, and Erwin,
served as judges. They put Parker,
(Continued on page 6)

TT wie,

Three Popular Students
Return to Speak at “Y”

Chalmers-McLieod and Murdock
Will Address Students at Vesper
Services Sunday

Dwight Chalmers, Dunbar Ogden, and
Murdock McLeod, a team of old Davidson
men from Union Seminary, will speak at the
Y. M, C.-A. vesper service on next Sunday.

Dwight Chalmers made an enviable record
during his college course, being an honor man
for four years, captain of the basketball team
this Senior year, president of the Y. M. C. A,,
and one of the most popular men ever at Da-
vidson. He is remembered by the present
Senior class for his record-breaking work
as “Y” secretary, in which capacity he work-
ed for two years.

Dunbar Ogden, valedictorian of the class
of 1923, is one of the most successful orators
at Davidson, and was the winner of
}many literary honors while at Davidson. An
address which he made before the Y. M. C.
A. during his Senior year is still remembered
by many members of the two upper classes.

Murdock McLeod has been elected presi-

dent of the Senior class at Union Seminary,
one of the highest honors bestowed by the
students there. He finished at Davidson in
22 and is remembered for his wit and popu-
larity. He was president of the Phi Society
and Ministerial Band. Since leaving college
he has been engaged in a further conquest,
usually associated with spring.
Uniee Seminary chooses. these three men
from the entire student body to represent her
at Davidson. A record-breaking attendance
is expected.

ever

| Miss Jane Leighton Richards spent the
| week-end with her sister, Miss Sophie Rich-
| ane, at Converse College.
