THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 1, 1925

Alumni Activities

Many former students of Davidson re-
turned Saturday to see the Wildcats
down the Wofford Terriers in a hard-
fought battle. Among these were Elias
Faison, '24 and captain of the Wildcat
football team in 1923; Pat Crawford, ’23;
Bill Menzie, ’23; Dick Richards, ’23; Don
Chipman, '24; Watt McCain, ’25; Tid

Cashion, ’19; F. P. Hall, ’19; R. D. Hall, |

"19; H. W. Davenport, ’19; C. H. Long,
’21; W. G. Guille, ’23; J. C. Flint, ’25;
Buddie Hines, ’23; Mason Fields, ’24;
Joe Baldwin, ’22; and Brown, ’22, Dun-
bar Ogden, ’23, was here last week.
During the summer several Dayidson
men were married. Ormond L., Currie
of the class of ’21 married Miss Eloise
V. Martin, daughter of Dr. W. J. Mar-
tin, president of Davidson, in Asheville,
N. C, Dr. C. M. Richards, pastor of the
Davidson Presbyterian Church, perform-
ed the ceremony.
married to Miss Mildred Burch
Franklin, N. C., on June 17th.

in
Two of

M. W. McGill, ’22 was |

. ° : |
the weddings of the alumni took place in |

Washington, D. C. These were those of
Cecil Kenneth Brown, ’21, to Miss Cath-
erine M. Matthews on August 26th, and
Marshall A. Thompson to Miss Mary
Lewis Nivison, September sth. Rev. H.
W. Poole married Miss Mary Ella How-
ard, July Ist, in Sultan, W. Va.
M. McLeod of the class of ’22 was mar-
tied to Miss Dorothy Shaw, June 24th, in
Sumter, S.C. Two other marriages were
those of W. @. Humphrey to
W. Parksdale, August 6th
Miss, and E. H. Tufts to
Stinson at Banner Elk, N.C,
ber 8th.

in Jackson,
Miss Helen
on Septem-

Several Davidson men are now attend-
ing theological serfnaries. Piggy Martin
’25 and Bob Davidson, ’23 are studying at
the Presbyterian Theological Seminary
at Louisviile, Ky. L. B. Gibbs, 25, and
McIntosh, ex-'26 are attending the Co-

William |

Miss Emily |

lumbia Theological Seminary at Colum- |

bia, S.C.

Three members of the class of ’25, are |

now teaching at the McCallie School in
Chattanooga, Tenn. These are Chal-
mers Mcllwaine,

Ralph (Sook) Boggs. Ed Singletarry is

teaching at the Blue Ridge School at |

Hendersonville, N. C.

’24—Paul Price is teaching school in
Florida.

’25—Jim Milhouse and Bub Oeland are
learning the banking business in New
York City.

’25—John Baker is going in busin
with his father at Jacksonville, Fla.

’25—Clayton Furches of Statesville is
a frequent visitor on the hill,

Elias Faison, ’24, left the hill Monday,
after a visit of several days, for Emory,
where he is to study medicine.

LATEST MOVIE ATTRACTIONS | the 149-pound class.

SCHEDULED

The movies this year, under the able direc. |

Wallace Purdy, and !

€SS boxing and

Davidson Students Lead _

in Activities at Camp

Wildcat Cadets Take Two-First
Places in Athletic Events at Camp

As this years R. O. T. C. summer camp |

drew to a close, the officers and men
alike realized more and more that this

was one ofthe most successful campus in |
in the history of the R. O. T. C., and they |

now plan for camp next summer, hoping
to make that one even better than the
one this year. From a standpoint of ac-
complishment the camp is way ahead of
all preceding camps. This can be ex-
pected, for the boys have all worked

diligently and with a willing spirit, and |

have done more. work than previous
camps have been required to do. David-
son College can well feel proud of the
work done by her group at camp, for
they have striven while in camp as they
do on the athletic fields for the honor of
old Davidson, and Davidson honor has
not been allowed to drag in the dust by
her representatives.

The Davidson trainees gathered at the
Alabama hotel for a banquet and get-to-
gether, before breaking up for the sum-
mer. The honor guests of the evening
were: Captain “Daddy” Weems, the best
officer that has ever been stationed at
Davidson, Captain John Elkins, who is
detailed to Davidson for next year, Lieut.
Beckett, another of Davidson's new offi-
cers, and Rev. Mr. Hodges, an old Da-
vidson man who is pastor of the
Presbyterian Church in Anniston, T. S.
Baker acted as toastmaster, and several
good talks were made by various of the
trainees. All agreed that they have a
different idea of army life now, and that
they shall bend every effort to get the
best men in the Davidson student body
realize that Davidson ideals and_ spirit
is*spread throughout the south as a re-
sult of these camps.

On the rifle range Davidson showed up |

| very well indeed, winning second place
among the colleges in rifle marksman-
ship, being topped only by the Univer-
sity of Florida. Of the highest scorers

trying out for the Camp Perry rifle team |

Davidson had four contestants, and one
man, W. A. Alexander, qualified for the
team. Purcell was high score man from

| medal offered to the highest scorer from
each school.

In athletics, the boys were especially
active in wrestling and boxing, tying with
| three: other schools for second place in
winning every match in
| wrestling. Baker, boxing his first time
|against Camp, of Florida, got a draw,
|and lost to Wilson of Florida in the next
|elimination bouts, after an extra round
| for the judges to decide on. Hand also
|lost a close bout to Filastre of Louisiana
| State university. Both men fought in

In the 118-pound

FOR DAVIDSON | lass McDaniel won from J. C. Frierson,

| winning the bantam title in that bout.
Davidson made an outstanding record

tion of Joe Garrison, will attempt to give to| in wrestling, winning every match of-

the students and town people of Davidson the | fered. In the 118-pound class Frierson |

biggest and best attractions that are being

shown on the American screen today. Al. |of Davidson.
ready some ofthe big hits of the year are | Frierson also won, throwing Nesmith of | since in the course of the week the Jun-

booked for an early showing in the gym.

Manager Garrison also wishes to announce | ee weight wrestled was the 149-pound | new uniforms. This addition makes the
to the students that from now on cress:
a_five- | i 5 rar ll ne ;

| won on time from Camp of Florida with | increased efficiency is expected.

Piece orchestra, under the direction of Tom
Barr, will furnish music during the show,
_ and it is hoped that with this added attrac-
tion the student body will continue to give

their wholehearted support to the movies and | and later won from Davis in the final,| tain Elkin and Lieutenant Beckett ref-

the “yy

|

|of Davidson won from McCutcheon, also
In the 127-pound class

| the Citadel in seven minutes. The only
In

the first preliminaries Davis

three minutes time advantage. Thomas

icf N. C. State lost to Filastre of L. U.

Alexander won from Filastre in a fall,

| for the championship in that weight.

Thomas Meighan appears here on October |
3 in “The Man Who Found Himself,” his |
newest picture, and from all news reports

Promises to be one of the season’s best pic-
tures. It is especially written by Booth Tark-
ington for Tom Meighan. Virginia Valli
plays opposite him. Following this, on Oc-
tober 10, will be seen “Quo Vadis;” “The
Sea Hawk” on the 17th; “Slaves of Fash-
ion” on the 24th, and “He’s a Prince” on
the 31st.

The month of November will bring “Sun
Up,” on the 7th; Richard Barthlemess in
“Classmates” on the 14th; “Beggar on
Horseback,” a James Cruse Production and
world’s best comedy will show on the 21st ;
“Wounds of Chance” on the 28th will wind
up the: month.

Two convicts managed to get into a
conversation one day.

“Hello, mate, how did you manage to
get here?”

“Just unlucky. Number thirteen got
me. Twelve jurors anda judge.”

|

C. E. TRAINING CLASS

The Christian Endeavor Training Class
on Sunday at the regular hour of 1:45
held one of its most interesting meetings.
The speakers for the day were M. A.
Steele and W. E. Hill. Posing as the or-
ganizers of.a Christian Endeavor Society,
they spoke to the audience just as to a
group of young people that they were to
mold into an active society. Steele ex-
plained the purpose of the society in such
a way that the aims of the society would
have been perfectly clear to anyone.
Hill’s talk on the organization of a Chris-
tidn Endeavor Society was also well de-
veloped. After the conclusion of these
talks came criticisms and points were
argued and settled. This’ general dis-
cussion is one of the features of the class
program. Its purpose is to learn about
Christian Endeavor work, and furnish
opportunity for any member to state his
views. :

the school, and thereby won the gold!

CLOTHES — HATS — HABERDASHERY — SHOES

At HENDERSON’S
October 2 and 3
BILL HOLLENBECK, Rep.

[FINCHTILIEY

Fifth Avenue at 46" Street
NEW YORK

Slavedriver Puts Fresh
Laborers Through Tasks

Taskmaster Kuykendall Allows No
Lagging—Craves Personal
Valet Service

Slavedriver Jamie Kuykendall announces
that he has purchased a brand new rhi-
noceros-hide persuader and has had the
whipping post repaired since last week
and intends to put the Freshmen through
their paces when he gets control of them
for the afternoons during this week. Most
of their time will be devoted to erecting
the remainder of the bleachers, clearing
the entire field of sticks, stones, and
|} weeds, and weeding the terrace around
ithe field outside the fence, Also in their
spare time there’s a lumber pile to be
straightened up, grass to be cut at va-
rious places and Jamie says if that isn’t
enough to keep them interested he will
have his shoes shined every ten minutes
and his rugs cleaned and room overhauled
twice a day.

Slavedriver also stated that he had
been working entirely too hard lately and
so, starting at once, he will detail about
four Fresh to attend his person and see
|that his slightest desire is fulfilled im-
mediately. Two Freshmen will act as
| shoffers for his new high-powered wheel-
| barrow which will carry him from place
|to place in overseeing the work, another
| will carry ice-water and a large palm-
\leaf fan, the fourth will act as errand-
boy, interpreter, and mechanic for
| Jamie’s convenience.
| With his improved methods in effect
| Jamie looks forward to big results in the
| near future.

| NEW UNIFORMS ARRIVE FOR
| ADVANCED COURSE
STUDENTS

| The R. O. T. C. Department is now
|/more highly decorated than last week

iors have blossomed out in their shining
| battalion one of perfect unity now and

| Captain Weems has just returned from
| Fort Bragg where he played on the
|camp polo team. In this same line Cap-

lereed the game. over there and Captain
| Elkin was one ofthe participants.

The entire effort of those in command
| of the battalion this year will be to secure
| the distinguished rating, an honor highly
| coveted by the military schools of the
|country. The prospects are bright for a
year of greater proficiency than last year,
and if these prospects are fulfilled the
battalion Sen | catch the eye of more
than one reviewing officer.

The band has already started practic-
ing and from the sounds coming forth
they are already in mid-season form.
New music is arriving daily and Captain
Elkin promises a real band this year.

OH EDISON, MY EDISON!

“Mazda, darling, be mine, incandescent
one! Watts life with you? Ohm is not
ohm without the light of your presence.
My heart is a transformer that steps up
at every thought of you. I would lay my
head alongside your switch; the touch of
your hand is like a live wire. Marry me
and let us have a little meter in our

home.”

“EVERYTHING MUSICAL”

PIANOS, PLAYER-PIANOS
VICTROLAS

RECORDS AND ROLLS

Band instruments of all kinds, stringed instruments

SHEET MUSIC

OLDEST IN THE STATE

ANDREW

MUSIC 213
STORE N. Tryon St.

WE ARE STILL GLAD TO BE OF
SERVICE TO YOU

LEST YOU FORGET |
|
|

If you need a suit, eijher one or two-trouser suit, let us show you

before you make a decision. Sport Sweaters, Golf Stockings, Golf

Knickers, extra trousers.
a

BELK BROTHERS CO. _ |

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

WHEN YOU FURNISH YOUR FRATERNITY

HOUSE, SEE

WHITLEY-WILKINSON CO.

MOORESVILLE, N. C.
