THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 3, 1925

Recent Publication of Magazine Brings
Thorough Review and Frank Criticism

‘DIM MORNING—GOOD-NIGHT!

After carefully reading and re-reading
this eye-opener in the current issue of
that staid old periodical, The Davidson
College Magazine, the writer wonders
what Dim Morning is all about, anyhow.

True, it is a short story, supposedly, of
the conventional length and appearance.
But
away from the antiquated fudge-making
tales and rah-rah stories of college life
that have so devitalized our publication
in the past.

The story is different, but as for having
any literary merits or moral ‘status, it
fails miserably. It is written in a slip-
shod manner evidently aping the style
of one or two modern writers of fiction.
There are several lines in the story such
as “delicious love silence,” “inviting for-
ests, speckled with moonlight,” that lift
the thought at time out of the mess of
words and vain hintings in which the
theme of the plot flounders.

Outside of the literary value, of which
there is scarcely any, the story is weak
in description, in moral tone, and leaves
the reader suspended in air, groping
blindly for a way to turn. Speaking of
easiness in reading, what do we get out
of such a sentence as this, “On further
sat his sister unobtrusively” ?

When Thanksgiving comes, the open-
ing poem is soothing and vaguely musi-
cal. It contains the true Thanksgiving
“atmosphere,” to be sure. Nature’s Tden-
tity, is a little too broad in conception,
but one reads it with pleasantness.

Trefax is an excellent double-barreled
story and is interesting for its technique
as well as for the vivid description and
the ethical questions involved. The
poem by the same author is also good.

Theory and Practice shows the effects
of editor’s shears on a well-paddled
manuscript. Comfortable and pleasant

reading, though. The Third Call, a well-_

worked-out short story is reminiscent of
a little play by Zona Gale, called “Neigh-
bors.” The characters are true to life.

The essays are better than usual, espe-
cially, A Big Difference. It arouses a
question that burns deeply within every
one’s” mind. Submerged Personalities
would have gone over better, had it been
written ‘over two or three times before
publication,

The two stories, Faith, and Now Laugh,
are of the more or less conventional type.
The reader knows that the mortgage will

in subject matter, it has broken |

ALUMNI NOTES

Fresh-Soph Debate
| Takes Place Soon

The annual Fresh-Soph Debate will be
held in Shearer Hall in the near future,
possibly next week. This debate usually

is hotly contested and is considered a/|

good try-out for all prospective inter-

collegiate debaters.

! The finals will take place between the
two teams that emerge victors from the
semi-finals that will take place some time
this week. The Pandeinics will meet the
| Metrophilians while a team representing
the Eumenean Society will go against the
Philanthropics. The winners of these
two encounters will met for the finals.

The three men representing the Metro-
philian Society are R. C. Grady, H. Powell
and Boyce Martin. Those from the Pan-
deinics are W. M. Regen, K. Pritchett
and J. Graham. The Philanthropic men
are F, A, Phillips, L. K. Pritchett and R.
B. Walters. The Eumenean team has not
been picked at the present time but will
be chosen very soon.

The question that will be debated is,
Resolved, “That the Allied War Debts
Should be Cancelled.” In the semi-finals
the Phis and the Pans will have the af-
firmative side of the question while the

Mets and the Eus will argue the negative

1 side,
H

FASSIFERN LEADER

(Continued from page 1)
youth for the greater tasks which they faced
later.

Dr. Sevier spoke of Woodrow Wilson,
whom he knew personally, how, in his youth,
he would, with the neighboring boys, sail
toy fleets in the ditches along the streets of
Augusta. This was God’s way of preparing
Woodrow Wilson to sail the fleets of our
great nation safely through the war.

We may say, in answer to God's question,
that we have nothing other than that which
is common in our hand. As Dr. Sevier
said, it is not how much we have, but how
much we consecrate what we have to God's
use,

In closing, Dr. Sevier said: “We have
an influence which we may use for good or
ill. Nothing will burn or sear the soul more
\than wealth unconsecrated, and nothing will
delight the soul more than our influence
used for good.”

|

i

There were quite a number of Alumni
present at the Duke game last week,
among these were:

C. M. S. (Chong) McIlwaine, '25, who! after an illness of over a month.

|

Capt. Henry Alexander Chambers, a

member of the class of 1864 died last:

| week at his home in Chattanooga, Tenn.,

Until

was editor of The Davidsonian last year} last summer Captain Chambers was an
and who is now teaching at the McCallie | active member of the First Presbyterian
|

School in Chattanooga, was on the Hill} Church in

over the week-end,

Alvin Rowe,'25, a Phi Beta Kappa man
of last year, who is now teaching in
Greensboro, was here for the game.

Ed. O'Connor, ex-’26, was on the Hill
over the week-end. .

Ed. Singletary, '25, Spratt Moore, ex-
‘23, M. W. Trawick, ’25, J. B. Gallant, ’25,

| dell County, N. C., in 1841.

Chattanooga. He has also
been been an offer in the General Assem-
bly several times.

Captain Chambers was born in Ire-

Davidson in
class of 1864.

1860, graduating with the
Upon graduation he en-

'tered the Confederate Army, and before

Watt McCain, ’24, A. M. Moffet, ’25, were |
all guests on the Hill during the week- |

end,
R. E. (Sook) Boggs, ’25, captain of the

‘24. Basketball team and star -football |
player, who is now assistant coach at
the McCallie School in Chattanooga,

Tenn., was to be seen in his old haunts
during the past week.

‘oo—Rev. J. C. Grier has recently
changed his pastorate from Rutherford-
ton, N. C., to Mt. Airy, N.C.

‘1to—Rev. Roy Smith has given up mis-
sion work at The Hollows, and has taken
up other work at Franklin, W. Va.

‘1to—Rey. D. H. Dimmock has recently
changed from Norfolk, Va., to Oxford,
N.C.

'o7—Rev. FE. L. Flanagan of Wilson, N.
C., has been called to the West End
Church in Atlanta, Ga.

‘og—Dr R. S. McGeachy is practicing
medicine at Kinston, N. C.

‘o6—Rev. G. M. Matthis, of Clinton, N.
C.,, has recently been called to Kinston,
N. C.

'13—Rev. J. R. Phipps has recently re-
moved from Glenwood, N. C., to Pollocks-
ville, N. C.

'25-—]. R. Gudger is teaching and coach-
ing in the Bedford High School at Bed-
ford, Va.

'23—R. M. MeGirt is teaching at Wil-
son, N.C.

‘oo—W. E. Hill, now of Fayetteville, N.
C., has been called to ‘the Second Pres-
byterian Church of Richmond, Va.

'14--R. T. Crawford was a visitor of
the hill Monday.

Announcement has been
approaching marriage of
Morris Johnson, ex’t9, to Miss Emma
Troy King, which will take place on the
15th of December at Fayetteville, N. C.

made of the
Mr. Lindsay

the end of the war he was made a cap- |

tain.

While a student at Davidson he was
actively engaged in student activities.
Among other things he was president of
the Eumenean Literary Society during
his Senior year.

ANOTHER GOOD FOOTBALL
YEAR

(Continued from page 1)
scrubs defeated Guilford 26 to 0 while the
varsity rested on the sidelines.
Then followed the game with P. C., a
Rock Hill. The teams played evenly the
first half, but in a

downs over their South Carolina brothers
and defeated them 13 to 0. In the contest
with Furman, the Davidson team was out-
played for the only time of the whole sea-
son, and Furman was returned the
by a 6 to 0 score.

victor

On. Home-Coming Day, the Wildcats con-
tinued on their climb to state championship

honors by turning the Wolfrpack eleven hack
by a 9-0 score. Before a host of alumni the
Davidson team clearly outplayed their op-
ponents.in every point of the game.

After Wake Forest was beaten by State,

the title with Carolina became the struggle

for the state championship. Although’ the
Wildeats led in first downs, and gained over
twice as much ground as the Tar
they were defeated 13 to 0. Then came the
final game with Duke, which the Wildcats
won by a larger score than any other game
ever played with the Blue Devils.

Thus ended a most successful season, with
two defeats, two ties and six victories, and
after the games, three men selected for All-
State honors, with practically every man on
the varsity selected by some writer for a
place on their first or second team, and eight
being placed on some first All-State team.

He entered |

regular “Coach Monk |
third quarter,” the Wildcats ran two touch- |

Heels, |

| Following is the record for the year:
|

Dy Gisscsscsue sess S94 Wlofitssccesetsoce 0
PDeGeee eee cee! 7 Wofford . -------- 0
Dy Grsveeseaseccte 7 Wake Forest ---. 7
Di Gescssseselece 26 Guilford -------- 0
Dy Gieeecss se eoS 1S i oP Gees eles 0
Dic Gecsvesscesess 0 Furman --------- 6
Dj Geizscsosssses 9° ON, GeStaté <--2-2 0
De Gigs soos aesuess 6 Hampden-Sidney - 6
[Div Cheescsceese ss 0 Carolina ._...---- 13
Diz Giscsctsoessese 26 PDO eecccoceco 8s 0
FIVE COLLEGES SEND MEN

(Continued from page 1)

The convention closed with the election of

national officers for the ensuing term of two
{years and the selection of a mecting place
for the next convention, The new officers
are J. M. Appleby, Davidson, Worthy Grand
Alchemist; H. D. Jones, Auburn, Grand Re-
corder; H. B. Arbuckle, Davidson, Grand
Chancellor; Z. M. Pirenian, University of
Florida, Grand Visor; and O. J. Thies, Da-
vidson, Grand Keeper of the Cult. The
place for the next convention, as selected by
la vote of the convention, is the University of
Alabama, but this is subject to change.

The new “Coat of Arms” of the fraternity
was presented to the convention for the first
time Friday evening. It was designed and
presented by Dr, L. P. Goode, retiring Grand
Alchemist.

Features of the convention were a model
initiation, put on by members of the local
chapter, and an informal reception given by
‘Mrs. Arbuckle and Mrs. Thies following
the Friday evening session.

Gamma Sigma Epsilon is the only honor
chemical fraternity for undergraduates in
| America, It was organized at Davidson in
1920, since which time it has experienced a
steady growth.

The membership of the local chapter in-
cludes four faculty members: Dr. W. J.
Martin, Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, Prof. O. J.
Thies, and Prof. J. Hi. Davis, and ten stu-
dent members: J. P. Hendrix, J. M. Ap-
pleby, T. H. Smith, J. W. Norwood, J. J.
Earnhardt, I. N. Roseberry, HC. Lawson,
S. W. Moore, J. B. Thompson, and C, L.
Bragaw.

There are a lot of men who’ would like
to be sixty-two years paying their debts.
Omaha World-Herald.

Anything which parents have not learn-
fed from experience, they can now learn
‘from their children.

It now seems to be the fashion to kill
|somebody and then go crazy.—Florida
Times-Union.

be paid off in time and the villian foiled, |

before the tale is half-finished.

The poetry is bright and bizarre; some- |

thing is sorely: needed on this campus.
The three poems by a freshman writer

are colorful and gay.. The last, especial- |

ly, is cleverly done.

As for the rest, editorials, humor, fillers, |
and what-not—it is all as good as the}

average. And as a whole, the Magazine

is the best that the writer has read since |

his arrival on the campus.
Here’s watching you, Adrion!
(C;, 19), S,

SENIORS TO PLACE STONE

(Continued from page 1)

leading firms of this nature of Philadelphia
has contracted to make the gift of the men
who are graduating in June.

A committee was appointed by Roland
Parker, class president, early in the fail,
which, after consultation with students of
several collegs of the South, including Uni-
versity of North Carolina, University of
Alabama, Vanderbilt, Wnthrop, and Sophie
Newcomb, presented to the class three sug-
gestions. The gifts placed before the mén
were, a “Y” hut, a costly and valuable set
of books for the Library, and the final selec-
tion. After much discussion it was decided
to give the college, and in this instance the
students as a whole, these benches,

The gift committee, which corresponded
with 26 different Southern schools, was
composed of J. M. Appleby, chairman; J. M.
Garrison, R. W. Graves, E. A. O'Neal, T. S.
Baker, C. E. Houston, B. U. Ratchford, H.
L. Shaw, and O. L. Brenner.

These benches, eight in number, will be in
place by the festivities of Junior Speaking.
Aithough the faculty did not have any voice
in the selection of the present, it is under-
stood that they are highly pleased with the
decision of the Senior class.

We can’t all be jokes, but we can at
least hand one in to the editor of the
“Goober Scorcher” every now and then.

Wren the orchestra stops its surge of music—and
the applauding couples begin to leave the floor—when
you join the good fellows for jolly talk and friendship

—have a Camel!

bet

Goals in the very

WHEN the orchestra gives you encore after
encore, but finally stops. And the couples glow-
ing with happiness reluctantly leave the floor.
When you join the men for jovial talk until the
next dance begins—have a Camel!

For no friend so enhances the joys of life as
Camel. Camel makes every happy occasion
happier, adds its own charm to every festive
day, every blith ing. Camels c
the very choicest tobaccos grown in all the world.
They never tire your taste, no matter how freely
you smoke them. They're so skilfully blended
they never leave a cigaretty after-taste. Rolled
into Camels is every good feature you have ever
wished for in a cigarette.

So, when you're waiting happily and confi-
dently for your time to rejoin the dance—
taste the smoke that’s known and loved by the
world’s experienced smokers. No doubt about
it, you'll never know how good a cigarette can
be until you—

Have a Camel!

<

made is like Camels. They are the

b grown in all the world. Camels ere
blended by the world’s most expert blenders. Nothing is too good for Camels.
In the making of this one brand we concentrate the tobacco knowledge and skill
of the iy organization of tobecco experts in the world.

No other cigarette
pacts b

Our

highest wish, if you do not yet

know Camel quality, is that you t

them. We invite you to compare Camels

with any cigarette made at any price.
B. J. Reynolds Fobacco Co.
