6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 19, 1925
“Res Five”? ;
Baseball Prospects at |Baseball Schedule For the “Big Five” of North Carolina
e e
D avidson Are Brighter TEAMS DAVIDSON CAROLINA | STATE WAKE FOREST DUKE
eae . DAVIDSON April 13 at April 1 at April 10 at April 16 at
Keen Competition Causes Change in ENTER Gastonia | Davidson Wake Forest Grensboro
Wildcat Championship Chances | April oat May 8 at May oat
‘ Raleigh Davidson Gastonia
The prospects for the Wildcat varsity |] _ : : tanbice 7 8
aT z ; ts ; CAROLINA April 13 at | May II at April 30 at April 2 at
ee he eae suet Psdmalitg Gastonia | Chapel Hill Wake Forest Chapel Hill
into shape: Early in the season it was STATE | May 23 at May 20 at May 2 at VERY collej man wants his
% Raleigh Chapel Hill Durham ry
announced that there was scant hope for | Aa aR aE JeHnceAee Cala Gate cae
i pennant Seer | this SupGi na i | Chapel Hill vee by fob collej sales gro
een competition for every position has oe | ow Fi e aa Viliis?=/ Peeters! Seite?
changed the looks of things and every- STATE April I at May II at | April 13 at April 4 at U seBNatinl Ma It Vets
‘ fi | Raleigh Durt E CM stag
one is inclined to believe that Davidson Davidson Chapel Hill aleig) Ubteetin the best of everything goes into
will be a strong contender for state ’ April 9 at May 23 at | CHAMPIONSHIP May 16 at April 21 at John Ward footwear.
honors ~ Raleigh Raeligh | Wake Forest Raleigh On Display By
s. M *
Several strong men “ot last year are aia Mr. A. M. Shimmon
missing but Coach Younger is gratified | Scat Nanionan ass : : 3 at Honor Store
at the showing’ the new men are making|] WAKE FOREST | April 10 at April 30 at April 13 at April 9 at Today and Tomorrow
for these positions. Probably the weak- Wake Forest Wake Forest Raleigh Durham
est spot of the team will be in the pitch- ~- May 8 at May 20 at | May 16 at EVENLY May 5 at ohn
ing department, as Flake Laird is the Davidson Chapel Hill Wake Forest Durham ;.
only veteran hurler to don the Red and May 12 at en's oes
Black uniform,

Ogden and Hampton |
are showing up the best from the new

Wake Forest

INCORPORATED — REG. U.S. PAT. OFP.

| en = — —_ - —

|| DUKE April 18 at April 28 at April 4 at April 9 at apa Philsacphte "Sy Ages for Ma
men who are trying out for pitcher. Un-! Greensboro Chapel Hill Durham Durham Orders, 191 Hudson st, New York City
der the willow we find Sim Wrenn and} May oat May 2 at April 21 at May 5 at MATCHED =
Sam Summers stagnig a hot battle for Gavronia Duran Raleigh Dirhan
the catching position. Wrenn is a vet-! May 25 at May 20 at May 12at
eran at the business and will probably Chapel Hill Durham Willan Ilepen!

Champion Electric
Shoe Fixery
Best Shoe Shop in Town

Shoes Repaired While
U Wait

W. W. GIBSON, Prop.
Davidson, N. C.

The position that is being fought for! weakness
the hardest is first base. see W sca Frank Alford is showing up well at first
_ caf and Abe Kugler are | 4 i f ‘
usu PULULS GUL AG Za ; Hae *|base also; Frank is a terrible hitter and
staging a merry battle on the initial sack.| “°° : ; i
Woodham ,the captain of last year’s | Will either play first or in the field. At
Fresh outfit, is a beautiful fielder and | second,
‘handles himself like a veteran,

'
bear the brunt of the receiving. H
|
|

seems to be in his batting.|to have shoptstop pretty well sewed up.]sure of a place; he is a veteran and a
mean hitter. Davis, McConnell, Welts,|
Alford and Laird will be the ones from
whom the varsity fields will be selected.
All the applicants out are fighting for a)
berth, and when the season opens and
the umpire shouts “play ball!” there will |
be nine. fighting, snarling-Wildcats in
there fighting until the last man is out

in the ninth,

Captain Teddy Covington is leading all
contestants for third base. Covington is
well night a perfect fielder and a good
Kimbrough are|hitter in the pinches.
Sion Alford seems

Simpson and

His only | staging a hot contest. In the field, Harry Vance is the most

METHOD FOR CHOOSING
TENNIS TEAM CHANGED

Davidson tennis is taking a forward
step in throwing away the old method of
running the tennis team and selecting
from the student body a squad of twelve
men from whom the team will be select-
ed before cach meet.

The four men, Price, Beall,
Staley and Trotter, were placed upon this
squad as were McCutcheon, Dick Carr
ears and Crosland who showed up well last

IFyouareinterested in f= 23
an easy way to own a wie Alesandr nom out ocr et 8
Ford now—or at’ some
future date—see the
nearest Authorized

ue Alexander won out over Red Ay
Ford Dealer for facts
regarding a conven-

varsity

idea in the

Got an
back of your head that
you need a ‘‘tux’’?

Probably you’re right
---most young fellows
do need one nowadays.

Wood Brown and Wells are schedule.
to play for one place upon the squad as
are Lockhart and Roland Parker.

Then these twelve men will engage in
a “Round-robin” tournament in which
each plays the other one match, the final
standing determining who will repfesent
Davidson. This tournament will be run
off as soon as the weather permits.

The fourth man of the squad will al-
ways be open to a challenge from the
others. :

We’ ve some new ideas,
too---in tuxedos. Coats
with shawl collars or
notched lapels.
Lustrous fabrics of
back flannel, worsted
or herringbone.

Black vests of brocaded
silks---white ones of
pique, silk poplin and
bengaline.

Shirts, ties, studs, sox,
shoes and hats to com-
plete the outfit.

MRS. BAKER

(Continued from page 1)
New York City, in addition to concert work,
Mrs. Baker was for two years choral direc-
tor in the Finch School, a very exclusive
conservatory on Fifth Avenue, and later was

e vocal director at Mrs. Dow's School at|’
t lan of ayment ee ee Tuxedos _$40 to $60
1en p 9 Mrs, Baker came to Charlotte nine years Vests $5 to $10

ago and was for three years choral director
at Queens College. She later established her
own private studio-and during the past few C)
years has been developing some of the most
popular voices in Charlotte. As a chorus
and choir director she has been eminently
successful. During her stay in Charlotte she
has been director of the chorus choir of
Hawthorne Lane Church, Second Presbyte-
rian Church choir, Ivey chorus, Carolina
Concert club, and Charlotte Musical Art
club,

or write us direct.

«

“AN_ASSURANCE
OF CORRECTNESS

Ford fotor Company,

Detroit

Ford Motor Company, Dept. N.
Detroit, Michigan

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

K The Most Convenient For
: Davidson Men

ve; Please mat]: me- lere regarding your easy

automobile.

Town State

IT IS EASY TO OWN A CAR THROUGH THIS PLAN
-~

