iad >

z °
. ;
oe THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 22, 1925 ’
— <==
PT d .
getting hot again, so I ran out and hollored
“Fire, Fire!” just as loud as I could, and
some fellers walked up to me and_ said, U S NAVY BAND
“Freshman you had better stop hollering. at e e
those girls.” Now Pa there was no-girls| fy. Johnson Murray, oldest son of! by-the-Side-of-the-Road of Greensboro,
around there that I could see. But T went) ytr) and Mrs. E. Fairley Murray, died and will take up his duties as pastor Cit Auditorium Charlotte
on back to my room, and then my roommate Monday afternoon, October 12th, at 3. there next April. \'f 9
came in and told’me that that thing was a] Qtclock at the home of his parents, fol- Chalmers served as supply pastor at
radiator. It sure is a funny one, cause it 3 , Peo ae : it YC ERE EN BoR A heAteieeRaadine ’
‘aii! i ite the ad ) p; eis lowing a. brief illness with pneumonia. the Church-by-the-Side-of-the Road last AFTERNOON 3:00 O’CLOCK, EVENING 8:15
don't 100K like the radigtor on Parson bra Mr. Murray was stricken on Saturday, summer and was called at that time to fill
shaw’s Ford. It looks more like a small] Q¢tober roth, and his illness was so. the pulpit but refused in order to finish
palin fence to me. _ , |serious that death followed on Monday his course at Union Seminary at Rich- TUESDAY, OCT. 27th
Well I got to quit and go ie bed as it is though he had been in good health pre- mond, Va., where he is at present. Later
nearly nine o'clock. I will write you soon] vious to the attack. he was called again and accepted with
and tell you about the electric lights that run} Funeral services were conducted Tues- the condition that he be allowed to con- Special price of 50 cents to all students for the afternoon con-
without kerosene, and the post office where} qay afte * Reciite Fate selitait ae ACTO RHETT .
tae OCTET TERRE ee day afternon at his home, his pastor, tinue his sutdies until next pring when cert ONoireserved seats:
they lave real mati 2OXCS outa Na OT) Rev. G. F. Kirkpatrick, having charge he will finish at the seminary,
fitty cents, too. Your son, Hiram. | of the service, and being assisted by Rev. Both at Davidson and the Seminary Night prices, $1.00, $1.50 and reserved seats, $2.00. Auspices .
V. R. Gaston, of Aberdeen and Rev. J. M. Chilmers stood at the head of his class ; i i y rat
i Rar peectiiyuc b eamtrabeany ae 0) een ; ee Bae of Kiwanis Club. Proceeds to charity. Ticket sale limited to fifteen
Arnette of Wagram. The interment was and was very prominent in the work of
Fresh Country Vegetables jin the family plot at Spring Hill ceme- student activities. He is a born leader hundred for each concert. For tickets communicate with
tery. An unusually large number of and is especially suited to work among ALISTER CARSON MGR
: ‘ople attende > funeral. the young people in religious work. Mc 13 °
Staple ryt Fancy Groceries elie ee the nul - Ane le young people in religious wo ( )
DET rave was a 1 ) ore a mance wernt
ae 22 years of age, being the oldest son of O. M. Brown, of the Class of * and INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
Fellows, see us for replenishing a large family. He spent two years at» Miss Marguerite Davis were married at : Cc
your Fraternity House larders Davidson and was highly esteemed by the First Presbyterian Chureh, of Win Insurance Dept. ’ CHARLOTTE, N. oe
his class-mates. He was greatly loved) ston-Salem, N.C. on the twenty-ninth of y

BARNETT AND COMPANY

Davidson, N. C.

ALWAYS A GOOD SHOW]

---AT THE---

Victory
THEATRE

MOORESVILLE - - - N.C.

Weekly Progrmme

Wed. and Thurs., Oct. 21-22---
The White Desert, with Claire
Windsor, Pat O’Malley.

Fri. and Sat., Oct. 23-24---The
Crimson Runner, with Priscilla Dean.

Mon. and Tues., Oct. 19-20---The
Golden Bed, a Cecil B. Demilles
production. Screen play by Jeanie
Macpherson, with Rodla Racque,
Vera Reynolds, Lillian Rich, War-
ner Baxter, Theodore Kosloff and
Julia Faye.

Wed., Oct. 28---His Darker Self,
with Lloyd Hamilton. ?

Oct. 29-30---Yolanda, with Ma-

rion Davies.

Pathe news and comedy reels run
with all pictures. We appreciate
your patronage.

with the hope that Thursday night will

It is said August, 1925.
that death chooses a shining mark and -
ID}, Mobb Sy;

Frank

ceremony

by all those who knew him.

surely howhere in Scotland County could
there be

Rev
the

Foster, assisted by

found a finer, a more noble and TV. Haney, ‘00, performed

a more splendid young man than was

Johnson Murray, Mr.oand Mrs. Brown spent their honey

moon in the mountains near Asheville,
Dwight) Moody Chalmers, prominent N.C,
Davidson man in the Class of 1920, and! Mrs. Brown is teacher of Latin in Sa

Seeretary of the’ Young Men's Christian
Association

lem Academy, while Mr. Brown is study
ing for his Master’s Degree at the Uni
versity of North Carolina

here later, has accepted a

call from the congregation of the Church-

president; W. TT. Covington, viee-presi
dent; Rod MeCrae, secretary; R. BL Park
er, first critic; Roland Simms, second
MeCrae, supervisor;
Camper O'Neal, second supervisor, DD. HI

Stuart is) the thre

Literary Societies

Chritigues( Ir first

The

down to work now and are making defi-

Literary Societies have gotten tronsuner. (Or wi

year

nite plans for the term's work. They are

The Philanthropic Society has reecived

also making a greater effort this fall to} an unusually large number of new mem
bers this fall, having taken in about 30
and

instituted

revive interest in the work of the soci-
Freshmen eight
They

in their programs to make them more in

; eae , upperclassmen,
eties and to obtain for them the place of M

Te : have several variations
recognition among the student organiza-
tions that they deserve, ' :
1" M hili ip leini - | teresting. Tor ten minutes at the meet
» Metr ian anc andeinic soéi- |; ; Vis ;
; Us ; . mf ut " : sree i ~ ing a parliamentary drill is held to train
OLY A M! lave ti) sctings nN ues . -
PA ERE A Ns) “ the members in the use of parliamentary

\iso, one

program is left open and some member

day nights, have changed their time of

Thursday night the
Societies This change
made in order that all of the

/ : rules of order, number on the
meeting to alter

other two meet,

or members is allowed to volunteer to
las been :

ae take part with a dialogue, story, or some
societies meet on

may the same night

form of entertainment

be recognized generally as “Literary So-! 1 I unde nic ociety in talled their
; bs és : ne flicers ; yc ' The
ciety Night.” and that other meetings "°™ ware ae cout Rane
ae ; ; ; soy ane: Me 1s : rest ; H
will not be made in conflict with the soci Ww, bl ae : eas a es ake) Mel)
5 fe ; ebb, viee-president: BP. Garris Xe
ety meetings. The attendance in the secre forse aL OU ms
; retary; LL. I. Deck, first critic: and R
past has been greatly hindered on ac- HH. Mell asain
5 , . Mellwain ‘cond critic
count of other meetings arranged for the : Pl eC C LN:
Same time as Literary Societies. Phe Eumencan Society is revising its

constitution, One of the proposed chang

At the last meeting of the Metrophil

f ee) : : nstitution, One t , s
lan Society officers for the second term 7 UU he) | ae ot the DESEO ed
: Sarre changes is the laAVin ge o terms per
were elected as follows: E. T. Pullen, BK that ol ving two terms per
year instead of three and in this way

~

BOYS!

AFTER THE GAME, EAT AT THE

8. & W.

CAFETERIA

avoiding an interruption of the work of

the society by changing officers. A feed
will be held one week from today for
the getting all of the mem
bers together, the old members, and any
others who are interested in the work of
If it should
he decided hot to reduce the numb roof
terms, new officers the second term
The Eumenean
Freshman Society meets separately from

purpose of

the society and want to join.

for
will be elected tonight

the regular society in the fall in order

that its members may get some practice

in speaking before meeting with the up-

We cart show you a complete line of

SWEATERS, TROUSERS, HATS
AND SHOES

Just received; a new fall shipment of Manhat-

tan Shirts and Pajamas.

THE GLOBE CLOTHING CO.

(DAVIDSON’S ONLY CLOTHING STORE)

The Fresh
been having some splendid programs and
its members

per classmen. Society has

in the work.
At the last mecting Paul Gates was elect-

show interest
ed secretary of the Freshman Society.
The Fresh-Soph and = Junior-
Senior intersociety debates will be held
this year as well as the Fresh-Soph dec-
The
is planning to,have four intercollege de-
bates during the college year, two this
fall and two next spring.
‘intercollegiate

usual

larnation contest. Forensic Council

Several of our
graduated last
year, so it is hoped that everybody inter-
ested in debating will go out for these de-
bates this year.

debaters

}
|

Edgar A. Guest revals himself in a
most favorable light in his pertinent the-
sis on “What My Religion Means to Me,”
which is featured in “The American” for
September. Mr. Guest deserts the or-
dinary plagiarism and drabbiness so evi-
dent in his didactic poetry and treats reli-
gion in a surprisingly broad and practical |
way. ;

“It’s all-off for the night,” she cried as
she wiped her face with a towel.

0 Syrcatstible /

That’s a big word, but it describes the new

“Jazz-Bo Cave Man” oxford.

They’re particularly made for young bucks of
college age. They’re made of light tan im-
ported calfskin with an extremely broad toe---
a necessary supplement to wide trousers.
And the famous Barbour welt prevents them
from absorbing moisture. A_ likeable pair of

“dogs”, we'll say.

SEVEN DOLLARS

MELLON’S

“EVERYTHING MUSICAL”

PIANOS, PLAYER-PIANOS
VICTROLAS

RECORDS AND ROLLS

Band instruments of all kinds, stringed instruments

SHEET MUSIC

OLDEST IN THE STATE

AN DREW

MUSIC 213
STORE N. Tryon St.

ARE YOU HUNGRY ?

WE HAVE FRESH
Sandwiches

Milk

Fruits
Candy
Cigarettes, etc.
COME IN AND EAT

The Student’s Store

“It’s yours, why not patronize it?”

