THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 7, 1925

Nine Members Added _ Wildkitten Tennis Team
to I.R. C. Thursday Nite

Beneficial Lectures Were Delivered Crosland, Lockhart, Carr and Whar-
by Dr. J. M. McConnell and ton Compose Team of First
Prof. A. Currie Year Men

At a mecting of the International Re-| Having defeated Charlotte Country
lations Club last Thursday night, April, Ciub in a recent match at Charlotte, the
23, at the Delta Theta Chi fraternity hall, | Freshman tennis team is now preparing
nine.new members were initiated. for numerous other matches of even
” After the initiatory exercises the club |More importance. This afternoon the
enjoyed two addresses by Dr. J. M. Mc- | Charlotte Country Club will be met
Connell and Prof. A. Currie, faculty mem- | #84i, probably at Charlotte as their
bers of the club. Dr. McConnell spoke courts are mitch superior to those at the
in regard to the founding, history and College.
purpose of the club and its relations to! A North, Carolina trip is being plan-
other activities on the campus. Prof, ned, although nothnig definite has been
Currie’s theme present conditions | worked ‘out. Should affairs turn out
in international relations in respect to satisfactorily the following teams wil
their conduciveness to war. He also be met on the trip (not in order, how-
outlined different causes of war in which ever): Lexington High; Oak Ridge,
he mentioned dynastic and economies Greensboro High, Winston High, Caro-
causes. “We will have no more dynastic lina Fresh. These teams have only been
wars,” said the speaker in prophesying written and it is not yet certain whether
of future wars. “The days of dynastic cach will be met.
struggles are over.”

was

Charlotte High will probably be play-
Upon the conclusion of these talks ¢d the latter part of this week at Char-
unfinished and new business was taken lotte. Also, the Fresh team will meet the
up and dispensed with after which While the varsity had a
delightful social hour was spent. very successful eastern trip and display-
Membership in the International Re- ¢d excellent playing, nevertheless they
lations Club is honorary, Each year cer-! will probably find no little opposition
tain students are invited to write cer- With the Fresh team, even though they
tain papers on timely international ‘poli- are winners.
tical questions, which papers are then The following men compose the Fresh-
reviewed by a committee of the club man team: R. Carr, Bob Crosland, Mac
separately, the ones receiving the highest Lockhart, Jimmie Wharton. Dick Carr
grades being taken into membership. ranks as first man on the team, while
The purpose of the activities of the club Bob Crosland follows with second, The
is to foster interast in intermational | rank of Lockhart and Wharton has not

a varsity soon,

problems as they confront the world yet been determined, but an immediate
today. match will be played between them to
rhe recent initiates are E. K. Regen, determine which player will rank third.

of the Junior Class; W. A. Christian, T.
G McCutcheon, W. C, Ogden, E. FE.
Lingle, W. B. Rice, L. H. Leathers, J. B.
Webb, and E. F. Bohannon, of the Sopho-
more Class,

DAVIDSON
FIVE YEARS AGO

THIRTEEN MEN INITIATED

The Wildcat nine defeated Wofford in
1a loosely played game, 11 to 8.

(Continued from page 1) The North Carolina Collegiate Press
caps looked quite charming and seemed | \ssociation held its second convention
to set off the innocent expression of the @ Davidson College on April 22 and 23.
wearers very well. A black and blue; Real “Fire” was the campus last
ribbon kept the hat firmly on the head, | Friday morning. The conflagration did
(The color needed no explanation.)

em

on

caves of the Philanthropic Literary So-
cicty Hall. It is supposed to have start-
ed from a defective flue in the French

classroom. . . . Dr. Lingle proved

YOU’LL ALWAYS FIND Ajto be the coolest man in the crowd.
While watching the flames eat their

GOOD SHOW AT THE |way toward his class room, he an-

‘nounced to the crowd that his French
class would take the next four pages.
The three “fire-chiefs” were Mr. Jackson,
Dr. Arbuckle, and Dr. J.

VICTORY THEATRE

MOORESVILLE, N. C.

They proved to be experts in giving
directions on how to use a_ fire-ex-
tinguisher,

A record run was made by the Moores-
ville fire department truck, but when
they arrived the students had already
extinguished the flames.

PROGRAMME
The Davidson College Board left the
campus the morning of Tuesday,
April 12th, for an extended trip through
the state, not returning until Friday
8. “His Hour.” Elinor Glenn’s night. The first concert was scheduled
;to be held at Mitchell College, States-
di- | ville, Tuesday evening. Leaving there the
; next morning they were to sound forth
It’s 4! their tuneful lays before the fair feminine
student body of Lenoir College, located
at Hickory. Thursday night they were

Ry {scheduled for a return engagement at
Sat., May 9. “Dixie. The the Lincolnton High School, having

on

Thurs. and Fri., May 7 and.

production of her own story,
rected by King Vidor.

wonderful picture.

Plans for Coming Trip

considerable damage to the roof and!

M. McConnell.)

| }
|

| Literary Societies

Eumanean Society
The Eumenean Society held its reg: !
ular meeting last Thursday night, at
| which time the officers for the next

quarter were installed.

Before the installation, a short pro-
gram was held. “Spoofy” Moffatt de- |
livered an oration on “Personal Effi-

ciency.” President Purdy delivered an
oration on “A Remarkable Family—Our
‘Solar System.” P. Butterfield Freeland
presented the pictures of Wilson, Lincoln,
and Webster, to the ‘society for the
committee, appointed to buy pictures for
ithe hall.

Retiring President Purdy made~a few
appropriate remarks in behalf of the
outgoing administration for the support
the society had shown them during their
term of office. The new president, T. C.
Barr, was then installed. The other offi-
cers were T. G. McCutcheon, Vice-Pres-
ident; R. A. Duke, Secretary; W. H.!
Lynch, Treasurer; A. Y. Bowie, Critic.

After a motion was made and carried
that a banquet be held at the Maxwell-
Chambers Hotel Thursday night,
May 14, the meeting was adjourned.

on

Philanthropic Society

Last Thursday night, the Philanthropic
Society held its regular meeting to clect
officers for the next term. Before the
elections were gone into, a short program
Was given, consisting of a debate on
“Resolved, That Pullman Surgharge
| Should Abolished.” Calhoun and,
Baker defended the affirmative, while
Alexander and D. G. Currie were their
The judges voted in favor
of the negative. Aftr the critic made his
report a motion was made that the meet-
ing be turned into the election of officers.

Nominees: for president were Ratch-

be

opponents,

{| ford, Barrington, Alexander; for vice- |

| president were Davis, Calhoun, and Gor-
'don; for secretary were Phillips, Morri- |
'son, Dixon, and Hanck; for treasurer
'were Calhoun, and. Gordon; for first
critic were Baker, Williford, and Bar-
irington; for second critic were Gordon,

Lingle, and  Crinkley; for supervisors
were Dixon, Pritchett, Phillips, and
;Glenn, The men who were elected for

{the next quarter were as follows: Ratch-
|ford, President; Davis, Vice-President;
| Morrison, Secretary; Calhoun, Treas-
lurr; Barrington, First Critic; Lingle,
| Second Critic; Dixon, First Supervisor;
‘Glenn, Second Supervisor, The election ,
of a representative on the Forensic
Council was deferred until a later date.
Aiter the elections, Holshouser auc-
tioned off a Philanthropic Society pin to
the highest bidder. C. G. Davis bought it.
The critic read out the program for the
next meeting and then a motion. for ad-
journment was made and carried.

Pandeinic Society
:zThe Pandeinic Literary Society held its
regular meeting last Tuesday night at
which time a- spirited debate was the
feature of the program. Th subject was:
“Resolved, That the Pullman Surcharge
Should) be Removed.” Pinkney and
{Ocland defended the affirmative side of
{the question while H. McIlwaine and
Webb ably upheld the negative. After
keen rebuttals by both sides the judges
‘gave the decision to the affirmative.
With “Success” as a theme, Oeland then
;gave an oration which showed careful
preparation. To conclude the program,
Zimmerman read current events, and
, the meeting adjourned. Since the first '

Three Social Functions

/score was 8-1,

,out, Hicks singled and scored on Au-

garnered a four bagger and a pair of
singles.

Pat Crawford’s boys displayed a rea]
fighting spirit in the seventh frame when

% |they managed to push four counters
Convention Delegates Entertained | across the plate, but Lanier was too

at Reception, Dinner, and Re- ;much for them in the other innings.

porters’ Club Luncheon Henderson pitching for the Gaston Coun-

a ‘ty boys had good control but the oppos-

The first social entertainment held for the | fg batsmen seemed to take a special
press delegates was an informal gathering liking for his curves and fast balls.

held at the home of Mrs, H. B. Arbuckle

who, with Mrs. Reid, was hostess, on Thurg-

day night to about forty of the delegi@®®,

After a most delightful time spent in games

and guessing contests, punch and sandwiches

were served.

Given Press Delegates

With this auspicious start the social events
followed in rapid succession. Friday after-
noon*the delegates participated in an inter-
fraternity reception. Following this, after |
supper, most the visitors attended the
Spanish plays given by the Spanish students
of Davidson and Queens. The program was
quite an enjoyable one, much favorable criti-
cism being rendered by those who were for-
tunate enough to attend.

of

I've invented a new face powder
which can’t come off,

Fine !—I’ve got a New Finchley
suit to try it on.

Following the Spanish play entertainment
The Davidsonian staff and the Davidson Col-
lege Magazine staff were hosts at an elab-
orate banquet given at the Maxwell Cham-
bers Hotel. No minute detail was omitted
to make this the event of the meeting. The
program arranged by C. F, Smith contained
a great many witty phrases and -captains.—
A. M. Martin, filling the office of toast-
master, displayed his usual wit and fluent |

Champion Electric
Shoe Fixery
Best Shoe Shop in Town

oratory. Among those called on for) % ‘
speeches were: W. E. Milton, "Free Air § Shoes Repaired While
to the Oilest Arrival;” “Backfire,” Miss |

U Wait

Dorothy McBrayer; “That Good Gulf Gas,” |

. M. Sanders; “Havoline Headlines,” C. F.! W. W. GIBSON, Prop.
Smith; “Magasine Mileage,” lotta Miles id

Seaton es es n, N. C.
(Sam Davis); “The Open Road,” F. H. Davidson,
Shinn, The banquet consisted of five courses

and included all the necessary ingredients for
a well rounded affair. . While the dinner was
in full sway the guests were given a real
treat in the several songs by Malcolm Lock-
hart, Was, accompanied
Thompson on the guitar.

Variety is the Keynote in

MEN’S CRAVATS FOR
SPRING

who by Proctor
The last social event of the convention was
a luncheon given the delegates by the Re-
porters’ Club. Owing to conflicting train
schedules the affair had be cut short.
There was no program but Earnest Milton
bade farewell to the delegates on behalf of
Davidson and the Davidson publications.

Charlotte High Twice a
Winner on Local Field

to

Every wanted silk is here,

patterned with taste and indi-
viduality in the manner favored
The
colorings are of exceptional

beauty---colors that add that

by well-dressed men.

Mt. Holly and Gastonia Lose to
Flashy Queen City Team
Pitching in fine from, Fred Lanier, ace final touch which is so essen-
of the Charlotte high school hurling
staff, easily conquered the much weak-
er Mt. Holly aggregation on Richardson
Vield Wednesday afternoon. The fina]
This was the first game
for each team in the elimination series.
Laniecr’s pitching was the best wit-
ness on the local campus in a long while.
He fanned thirteen men and allowed on-
ly four scratch hits. Moreover, the
Charlotte outfit gave him good backing.
The mountaineers made their lone tally
in the initial inning. After two men were

tial to the correctly dressed
man. And as wide a selec-

tion as is to be found in the

city---from both foreign and

domestic looms.

Foulards Suskanas

Poplins Crepes
ten’s double. Charlotte seemed to score
at will throughout the contest. Gribble,

, : Moires
Hurt, Foard, Kistler, and Scott did ex-

Repps

cellent work with the hickory, while ‘
Hicks and Auten starred for Mount Knits Basket Weaves
Holly.
Charlotte-Gastonia $1.00 to $3.50
With Fred Lanier hurling air-tight

ball and the entire team giving him ex-

ibeen recalled by special request,
fourteenth of the Chronicles of ion pon ceg eal Teauest. On

|
America.

May 11 |
“Side Show of Life.” |

Mon. and Tues.,
and 12.

|

Wed., May 13. Jack Pirrin|

in “Travelin’ Fast.”

Thurs., May 14. “Wife of |

the Centaur.”

Fri. and Sat., May 15 and
16: Harold Loyd, in “Girl
. Shy.”

their homeward journey they expect to

stop over at the Queen City for the pur-
pose of hearing the famous Pryor’s Band,
Friday morning. The last concert of the
trip will be given at Sharon Church, just
outside of Charlotte. The church plans
to hold a reception for the band after
the program. After leaving the church
they will return to Davidson late that
night via. ‘auto, thus

the season.

Mrs. J, M. McConnell was hostess
last Friday evening when the Thelemites
Club entertaindd in honor of Miss
Eloise, Martin, whose engagement .to
Buck Currie has been recently announc-
ed. The decorations of Spring flowers,
and the bride’s cake were items of cen-
tral interest. The feature of the oc-
casion came when Miss Martin was pre-

sented with a beautiful book of recipes.

completing what is_
hoped to be the most successful trip of |

of the year the Pandeinic has used a sys- | Cellent support in the field and at bat,
tem of free discussion and debate at Charlotte high defeated Gastonia high
all of its meetings and this last pro: in a well played game here last Satur-
gram was the first to revert’to the old day 7-4. The contest was an elimination
system. This “Free Discussion” system fair, the winner advancing another step
aaeeenencede with great success by the toward the championship.. Kistler and
Pandeinic and will probably be adopted | Gribble proved to be the batting stars
by the society as the regular order next for the Queen city boys, the former get-
WEESR, ting three bingles, one a home run and
F another a triple, while the centerfielder

Metrophilian Society

The Metrophilian Literary Society met
at its regular meeting last Tuesday night.
Upon -motion of the house the debate
_ was postponed, and the society went im-
{mediately into election of officers for |
|the coming year. After much balloting |
the following officers were elected: |
Roland Parker, president; Don Wharton! “3
vice-president; Don Stewart, treasurer;
Boyce Martin, secretary; E. T. Pullen, |
first critic; Bill Covington, second critic; |
A. L. Powell, first supervisor; .W. G.
Smith, second supervisor. The meeting
then adjourned.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

~~ <The Most Convenient For

Davidson Men

+
