Vol. XIII

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 10, 1925

No. 13

Coach Younger Working Basketball Men

>

COACH MONK YOUNGER

After Early Training Under Hengeveld

Basketball Schedule to Open Late in
December With Concord “Y” on

Local Floor
=<
After several weeks of practice under
Coach “Dutch” Hengeveld, the basketball

squad has been turned over to Coach Young-
er, who has cut the number of men to a
size that can be handled more readily. The
men. who did not make the varsity group
are still in training under Coach Tilson.

As a nucleus for this year’s team there
are only three letter men: Anderson, Hew-
lette, and Captain Laird, but several promis-
ing players who took part in the class series
are out fighting for berths. Included in the
group are: Wilson and Weld, from the
championship Sophomore five; Simpson,
Calhoun, Hudgins and Goodykoontz, of the
Junior team; and Huie and Cook, who tossed

the ball through the basket for the Seniors. |

There are a number of others in the run-
ning, among whom are several men who
were on the football squad at the time of the
class series. Coach Younger has been drill-
ing this squad hard the past week in prepara-
tion for a game with Concord, which opens
the season shortly before the Christmas
rholidays,

The men of the so-called “Cowboys,” un-
der the tutelage of Coach “Tex,” had their
initial practice last Saturday ,the day after
the squad had been separated. The “Cow-
boys” go through a schedule the entire sea-
son, playing major high school teams in this
part of the state and the second teams of
other colleges. Among the men who are
on this squad are; Lawson, O’Neal, Moore.
J., Moore, S. W., Baker, Calhoun, Hall,
Kugler, Wharton, Withers, Coltran, Farrell,
Keerans, McConnell, Oden, Jones , and
Lingle.

Fight Students Ge
to Salisbury For
Evangelistic Work

Eight Davidson students, under the aus-
pices of the Y. M. C. A., conducted a whirl-
wind evangelistic campaign in Salisbury dur-
ing the past week-end. They directed sery-
ices at all of the Salisbury Sunday Schools
and held special exercises at the Salisbury
high school, the Y. M. C. A.,.and the Hi-Y
clubs,

This was the first important deputation
sent out from Davidson this year, and the

Glee Club Sings Before

Big Audience at Queens

Davidson Boys Entertained at
Reception Following Second
Performance of Season

A large audience of students and music
| lovers crowded into the auditorium of Queens |
| College last Saturday evening to hear the |

Davidson College Glee Club in its second
| performance of the fall season. In spite of |
the fact that several unfortunate mishaps ‘oc-
curred in the course of the performance, the
\efforts of the musicians were received with
enthusiasm and applause by the large’ au-
| dence... |
| First honors go to the Jazz Orchestra,
| whose rendition of numerous novelty orches-
|trations resulted in an uproar of approval. |
| Among the most popular numbers offered |
by the members of the Orchestra were “Red
Hot Henry Brown,” “Jingle Bells,” “When
Eves Of Blue Are Smiling,” “Sometime,” |
“Got No Time,” and “Show Me The Way |
| To Go Home.” |
| The chorus of 40 singers came in for its |
|share of applause, especially when it ren-
dered the “Creation Hymn’ and “Unto a
Lowly Spot Directed.” Other melodies fea- |
tured by the chorus were “Beetle Song,” |
“College Ties,” and “O! Davidson.” |

| The quartette, with its close harmony and | over their mythical all-state football clevens, | Raymond B, Fosdick, former under-Secre-
} s close hi a

| swinging melody, proved a popular number. |
The deep bass voice of Calhoun as contrasted
‘to the shrill tenor of Malcolm Lockhart, |
| brought a round of applause from the au-
‘dience. Among the noteworthy selections
| offered by the members of the quartette were
“Ain't You Coming Back, Mary Ann?” “A
| Chinese Honeymoon,” “Freshie,” and “Dear
One.” |

A review of the performance would not
be complete without mention of the work of
the Symphony Orchestra, which held the
‘audience spellbound by its rendition of clas-
sical numbers,

A broken curtain rope, a faulty footlight

(Continued on page 8)

Annual Bid-Day Closes
Eleven Fraternities Pledge Eighty-One Freshmen

men were received with enthusiasm wherever |

they spoke. Rev. Edgar A. Woods, former
Davidson student and at this time pastor of
the First Presbyterian Church of Salisbury,
arranged the services, being aided in this
work by the Salisbury “Y” secretary, Mr.
Dunham,

On Sunday morning the students conducted
services at a number of the Salisbury Sunday
Schools. W. A. Christian taught two classes
of boys at the Dutch Reform Church, Jim
Pinkney spoke to a large audience at the
Second Presbyterian Sunday School, Lewis
McColgan and Clanton Williams conducted
services at the First Presbyterian Church,
and Harllee Branch spoke to the Baracca
class for boys at the Second Baptist Church.
On Sunday evening these men led special
Services at each of the above churches,

On Monday morning, Jim Pinkney and W.
A. Christian spoke to the Salisbury High
School students, and their talks were receiy-
ed with approbation and enthusiasm. The
quartette, composed of D. M. Calhoun, Clan-
ton Williams, W. A. Christian, and W. O.
Green, rendered a number of musical selec-
tions that added considerable interest to the
program. ‘

An unusually large crowd of older boys
attended the exercises in the “Y” hut on
Sunday afternoon,and listened with interest
to the fine talks of Joe McConnell and

(Continued on page 5)

Number of Men Pledged Falls Below That of Last Year By Nine, as Three Months of Ru
is Brought to End---One Hundred and Three Bids Issued

Eighty-one Freshmen were pledged to the |
eight national and three local fraternities on
the Hill last Saturday, the day officially
designated bythe Pan-Hellenic Council as
Bid Day. One hundred and three bids were
issued to 90 Freshmen, several fraternities
bidding the same men. The week before had
been filled with feeds and smokers given by
|the various fraternities for the Freshmen.
The men will not be eligible for -initiation
juntil after they have passed a sufficient
| amount of work after the mid-term exams.

The following is a list of the men pledged:

Beta Theta Pi—F. W. Ballard, of Pen-
\rose, W. Va.; Jack Causey, Greensboro; J.
B. Moriarity, of Memphis, Tenn.; H. F.
Sinclair, of Memphis, Tenn.; and J. T.
Roddy, of Rock Hill, S. C.

Kappa Alpha—R. O. Flinn, of Atlanta,
Ga.; W. F. St. Clair, of Bluefield, W. Va.;
A. C! Kelley, of Thomasville, Ga.; Mac
King, of Bristol, Tenn.; Riggs McConnell,
of Davidson; Wm. Bailey, of Rock Hill,
SEG

Kappa Sigma—Sam Black, of Davidson;
R. F. LeFevre, of Lexington; Gardner
Green, of Rome, Ga.; W. L. Crawford, of

|

Albany, Ga.; James Sturdevant, of Rome,
|

Davidson Students Vote
Entrance to World Court

Student Discussion and Talks by
Doctor Lingle and Professor
Freeman Lead to 298 to 75
Vote

Monday morning at the chapel hour the
students of Davidson College showed them-
selves interested in matters of national im-
portance, At this time 298 of the students
voted in favor of the United States  par-
ticipating in the work of the World Court,
while 75 voted against it.

About two weeks ago Dr, Lingle gave a:
brief survey of the question to the students |

=

Binet Gajoling
Paper Names Monk
Mythical Mentor

While many sports writers were wrangling

the Raleigh News and Observer, North
Carolina’s biggest newspaper, named W. I
(Monk) Younger, popular Davidson mentor,
as the best coach in the state.

North Carolina has tried many kinds of
coaches, importing them from the cast and
from the west, but finally one man has come
back to his almo mater to win football
laurels for his Duke University
tried Howard Jones, from Iowa, and North
Carolina State has Gus Tebell, from another
mid-western state. Wake Forest sent to
Princeton to get Hank Garrity, who hung up
a golden record for the Baptists. Carolina
has for years been running away with the

(Continued on page 6)

school.

., be the principal speakers at the National Col-

jand Monday morning at chapel Professor ,
Foreman talked briefly on the subject. No
doubt all ofthe votes that were cast were
done so only after mature thought and de-
liberation by the students. Davidson is not
alone in the movement to pole its student
body as practically all of the larger institu-
tions of the country are doing likewise.
December 11 and 12 students representing
all of the better known colleges throughout
| the country are to gather at Princeton, where
| John W. Davis, former Democratic candi-
date for President; Dr. George E. Vincent,
president of the Rockefeller Foundation, and

|tary General of the League gi Nations, will

|legiate World Court Conference,
| Among the topics to be discussed by these
leaders are “The Press and War,” “The
Relation of the World Court to Economic
' Prosperity,” “Imperialism and World
Peace,” “The World Court and,the League
of Nations.” ‘

At present more than 65 colleges from all
parts of the country have accepted the invi-
tation to send a delegate to Princeton for
the conference. At the date this article is
written it is not positively known what will
be Davidson’s action on the conference,

(Continued on page 5)
|

Ga.; M. M. Caldwell, of Wilmington; R. L.
Lawther, of Wilmington; Neil McGeachy, of
Decatur, Ga.; E. H. Smith, of Quitman;
Sam Watkins, of Henderson. .

Phi Gamma Delta—R. Horton, of Gren-
ada, Miss.; C. R. Lake, of Greenville, Miss. ;
W. L. Dumas, of Talledega, Ala.; E. A.
Holmgreen, of San Antonio, Tex.; M. L.
Crawford, of Sumter, S. C. ;S. W. McGill,
of Louisville, Ky.; Charles Creech, of Wain-
ston-Salem.

Pi Kappa Alpha—Thomas James, of
Galax, Va.; E. G. Speir, of Charlotte; W.
M. Regen, of Franklin, Tenn.; M. E. O'Neal,

of Bainbridge, Ga.; Richard Parker, of Ab-

beville, S. C.; Wm. Wilson, of Paris, Ky.
Pi Kappa Phi—J. W. Williams, of Greens-
boro; J. B. Hall, of Belmont; J. G. Mc-

Clure, of Graham; N. A. McDonald, of , i
Raeford; B. H. Geer, of Charleston, S. C.;| cagula, Miss.; Joseph Kerr, of Wilmington, | field

R. M. Gantt, of Greensboro; R. C. Grady,

of Wilmington.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon—William Powell, of | Moffatt, of Pensacola, Fla.; Charles, Lanier, | nish
Little Rock, Ark.; Dan Ritchie, of Concord;|of Talledaga, Ala.; R. B.
Franklin Cannon, of Concord; C. C. Clark, | Greenville, N. C. |
of Elizabethtown; Robert Covington, of
Raeford; W. W. Flowe, of Concord; S. W.| P. W. Gates, of Little Rock, Ark.; W. J.| would substitute Mercury at left end and
Smith, of Charlotte; H. B. Jennings, of | Caldwell, of Charlotte.

Fall Rushing Season

n as

shing

Lumberton; G. McCuen, of Laurens,-S. C.;
Nelson Myers, of Greensboro; M. T. Gil-
more, of Wilmington; A. F. Gordon, of
Mobile, Ala.; R. B. Evans, of Fayetteville.

Theta Upsilon Omega—W. E. Woodward,
of Quincy, Fla.; H. Y. Harper, of Oak
Hill, Ala.; W. E. Phifer, of Port Jervis,
N. Y.; W. R. Weaver, of Hickory; Ken- |
neth Purdy, of Pensacola, Fla.; R. C. Corn-
ing, of Hamlet.

Sigma Delta—J. C. Albright, of Rich-
mond, Va.; W. C. Archie, of Salisbury; R.
Duffy, of New Bern; J. H. Faucette, of |
Burlington; W. B. McQueen, of Raeford; |
B. C, Pridgen, of Dunn; Edward Pridgen,
jof Dunn; A. F. Smith, of Prattville, Ala.;
|G. W. Stafford, of Burlington; J. W. Wil-!
'liford, of Lumber Bridge.

Delta Theta Chi—Robert Kell, of Pas-|

| N.'C.; H. F. Rowe, of Fredericksburg, Va.; |

| Joseph James,- of Mebane, N. C.; Stuart |

Walters, of

Pyramid—W. M. Strong, of Charlotte;

Doctor Edward Mack Extols Sacrificial
Learning in Phi Beta Kappa Ceremony

Opened With Prayer by Doctor
Frazer — Short History by Doctor
Harding—Thirteen Men Received

On last Friday evening, December 4, the
North Carolina chapter of Phi Beta Kappa
held its public intiation in Shearer Hall.
The exercises were presided over by Dr. C.
R. Harding, president of Gamma chapter,
and the speaker of the evening was Dr.
Edward Mack, D.D., LL.D. of the class of
1886, who is now professor of Hebrew in
Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va.
The exercises were opened with prayer by
Dr, D. M. Frazer, '76, followed by a short
history of Phi Beta Kappa by Dr. Harding.

Phi Beta Kappa was established at Wite’
liam and Mary College, Williamsburg, Va.,
on December 5, 1776. The group of 50 were
known as the founders of the fraternity.
There are chapters in over 100 colleges and
universities over the country, with a member-
ship of something 55,000 members,
40,000 of whom are still living. The charter
for Gamma chapter was granted in Sep-
tember, 1922, and was installed on March 1,
1923. There were 10 charter members of
the local chapter, Dr. J. M. McConnell being
the president. The other officers
Dr. Edwin F. Shewmake, vice-president ;
Prof. W. W. Wood, seeretary and treasurer.
Dr, H. B. Arbuckle introduced the speaker
of the evening,

Dr. Mack first reviewed the history of Phi
Beta Kappa, and its foundation at William
and Mary College. William and Mary Col-
lege was granted a charter in 1619 and work
was begun on the establishment of the build-
ings immediately, but was halted by a mas-
sacre by the Indians. The purpose of the
founding of William and Mary was two-fold,

(Continued on page 6)

over

were;

Gaston Alumni to
Banquet Football
Varsity Saturday

Again the Davidson Alumni of Gastonia
came to the front in their annual banquet
for the Davidson football men. This loyal
invited the Wildeat letter
men, Coaches Monk and Tex, and Earnest
Milton, to be their guests on Saturday night,
December 12, at a banquet to be held at the
Gastonia High School Cafeteria.

association has

This year the fighting Wildcats will feast
with “Pat” Crawford's North Carolina
champions, This team, it will be remembered,
defeated Sanford and won the title in high
football, Many of the Gaston men
are planning to make Davidson their alma
mater, and it is fitting that the two groups
have a chance to be together, so that the Da-
vidson men might help in the good work of
nistilling some of that traditional Wildeat
spirit into them,

school

When the Davidson team and the Gastonia
fellows assemble with the alumni, there will
be about 85 present, for Gastonia has 35
alumni that are the strongest Wildcats in the
state, and who back every movement made
by Davidson.

The coaches and letter men, together with
the remainder of the team, and the student
body as a whole, join in thanks to the Gas-
tonia Alumni Association for this step that
they have taken.

“Given this team with Bob Fetzer as
line coach, and Hank Garrity as back-
coach, and to furnish the plays,
Monk Younger to weld the whole
smooth-running machine and fur-
the fighting spirit, a la Davidson,
that would give a good account of itself
against any team that did not include
Grange or Oberlander, in which event I

and
into

Lightning at right end.”
