s

4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 239, 1925

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press

Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered ‘at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication’: must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

CONRAD FREDERICK te eas ee LL ey |

HAROLD D. BURKE

EDITORIAL STAFF

W. H. BRANCH. M Editor
L. D Assistant Managing Editor
P. F. JONES......--...-. Assistant Managing Editor
W._E. MIL’ Athletic Editor
R. B. PARKER A H Editor
A. Y. BOWIE A Editor
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH A Editor
GARNETT McMILLAN...........-..-.---- Humorous Editor
. B. WEBB Alumni Editor

H. D. BURKE Business Manager
W. H. LYNCH.....____.._._____Assistant Business Managet
H. Y. ALEXANDER... Circulat M
E. D. WITHERSPOON.....-....-.---- Supscription Manager
J. M. GARRISON. ption Manager
C. W. WILLIAMS. G Solicitor
V. S. BROYLES. Solici
E. L. DOUGLASS. A t
JULIA AK Service Department |
Reporters’ Club

G. M. EDDINGTON, Pres. j; F, HOLLINGSWORTH
V. S. BROYLES, Vice-Pres. . MARTIN
C. C. MURCHISON, Sec.-Tr, R. H. McILWAINE
W. H. ALLISON . P. McKNIGHT
H. M. AUSTIN . E. MOORE
F, K. BELL =». K. REGEN
Cc. L, BRAGAW H. L. SHELBY
D, M. CALHOUN B. M PSON
W. T. COVINGTON B. WEBB
W. T. DAVIS G. WHARTON
E. L. DOUGLASS WILSON
F. T. FRANKLIN C. WITHERS
W.-S. RDO! W. S. WOODS

BACK HOME

Home-coming Day, Saturday of this
week, has been set aside by the college as
a day of joy and celebration. The Wild-
cats will encounter the fast team of State
College, and Richardson field promises to be
the scene of as hard a fight as that witnessed
last year when the Tar Heels from Caro-
lina were met.

This is the day of all days in the year
when old friends of other days will be met
and oft-told tales glowingly related again.
Undergraduate spirit will be enlivened by
the host of loyal alumni who at least once
during the course of the year travel back to
the scene of their college days. All will join
hands and hearts in making this day one of
celebration and long to be remembered.

It will be Home-coming Day, Davidson
College Day, and three or four more days
all rolled into one big span of twenty-four
hours, packed and crammed with enough
excitement to last anyone for months to
come. There will be hundreds of alumni,
hundreds of visitors and many beautiful
girls who will lend to the staid campus a
touch of color such as is rarely seen here-
abouts. Fun, frolic and frivolity for every-
one. .

Under the tutorage of Younger and Til-
son the Davidson Wildcats have arisen from
the ranks of mediocrity and now have an
enviable position in football circles, In
every game that has been fought they have
given a good account of themselves. Fur-
man’s purple hurricane defeated the thin red
line of Davidsonians last Saturday but not
after the stiffest kind of fighting and crap-
ping. We made a good record last year and
we intend to do so this season. ‘

But more than the actual scores of the
games is the splendid spirit that has been in-
stilled into the players and the students of
the college by the principles of fairness and
good sportsmanship that have been adhered
to. Everyone knows that the name of Da-
vidson is synonomous with that of sports-
manship; the students feel a just pride in
the teams and the alumni are proud of the
fact that they ever went to Davidson.

The Davidsonian welcomes back you, men
of Davidson, and sons worthy of her fair
name. It is you who have stood by the col-
lege on all occasions and have been instru-
mental in the upbuilding of physical and
spiritual ‘well-being. Every loyal son of

old Davidson is given a hearty welcome anti’:

greeting back to the campus. This is your
day and it is our’wish that you will enjoy it
to the utmost.

You may have felt that time has dealt
harshly with you in some respects, but re-
member that the cheery greeting that once
met you upon your arrival on this campus
is still evident. The same high’principles
which obtained in Your student days yet

lift our thoughts to higher and nobler en-
deavor. Your. team, the little bunch of
scarlet-jerseyed youngsters with the fight-
ing hearts will not fail you. Our team may
have the score piled upon them but they
will never lose courage, nor show a whit less
fight than they had at the first of the game.

So, welcome home, loyal alumni and
friends of Davidson. A program has been
prepared for you which we hope will meet
with your approval. And we sincerely hope
that the spirit you observe here, the game,
and the students themselves will make you
only more glad that you are a true son of
the Red and Black.

HALLOWE’EN

Boys will be boys, girls will be girls, and
young people will continue to cherish those
delightful fancies of childhood days as long
as imagination bodies forth the shapes of
things unknown. The eve of All Hallows
Day is the time set apart forthe spooks and
witches to ride, for mysterious beings to re-
turn to earth for a few short hours before
being dispelled by the dawn.

Hallowe’en is the witching hour of the
whole year. It is the time when jaded
nerves and tired minds can find relaxation in
imagination and freedom from.the hum-
drum affairs of daily life. The elfin sprite
of the unknown beckons to young and old
to follow her flitsome footsteps.

Some say that the ancient, long -robed
druids were founders of the spirit of Hal-
lowe’en; that their mysterious cult, their
weird chants and incantations, make up
some of the mystery that we hear when
this night comes again. Certainly, those
pagan ideas find expression in the strange
garbs of divers sorts that we see in the
Hallowe’en festivals and carnivals.

From the dim past has immerged this
traditional celebration. It comes at the
close of the harvest season when spirits are
at the highest. It is the time of the harvest
home and of general good will.

Who is there who does not recall the dark
and weird shadows of Hallowe’en? Such
fantastic shapes as appeared in dark corners..
Even the carved pumpkin on the gate-post
appeared a giant ogre from the lands of
dreams. We sought the bright lights when
the witches rode across the sky on brooms
and the spooks were unleashed from count-
less tombs.

It is the ever-lasting spirit of youth and
of imagination that makes us love this sea-
son of the yeaf. When imagination dies out,
the spirit lacks also. When the soul is gone
the man is dead. We cannot keep too much
of this youthful spirit that makes one see a
ghostly man-of-war in a scudding cloud.

THE WORLD COURT

On December 17th, there will be brought
up before Senate a most momentous ques-
tion, one that involves the safety and secur-
ity of every nation in the world. The ques-
tion at issue is whether the United States
will cast her lot. with the leading countries
of the civilized world in the World Court of
Permanent Justice, or whether she will con-
tinue her policy of aloofness from interna-
tional affairs.

Coming as it does upon the trail of count-
less international negotiations of one kind
and another, this question of entering a de-
termined concert of countries determined to
effect peace by means of arbitration rather
than resort to war, is one that concerns
every individual in this country.

It especially concerns the college man for
he is the big business man, the financier, the
statesman, and the plain citizen of tomor-
row. If he is to compose that upper statum
of leadership in affairs of the future, he
should know something about and should
form some ideas as to the advisability of en-
tering this court.

This world court is a direct outgrowth of
the ideas of the late Woodrow Wilson. His
proposed plan for this country ‘to enter the
League of Nations was downed, partly be-
cause partisan politics played a large part in
its defeat, and also because the people of the
United States were not fully awake to the
seriousness of the situation. War seemed
too remote to cause such a mommotion. To-
day this court has a membership in excess
of forty members, most of them being mem-
bers of the League. The personnel of the
body is composed of eminent jurists and
recognized authorities on all points of in-
ternational law. John Basset Moore, a cit-
izen of the United States is a member of
the court.

The work of the court fas been the un-
tangling of various snarls that have arisen
from the late conflict of nations. It has fol-
lowed up the work done by the two Hague
Conferences which were so heartily en-
dorsed by the United States. President
Harding, inthe last days of his life tried to
have this measure passed so that the United
States would not be branded as an outlaw
of nations, and so she could intelligently act

|

Open Forum

ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY

About 150 volumes of works by French authors
have recently reached thé Library and are now
being catalogued. Members of the faculty and
ofthe student body are invited to examine these
works. A year ago we requested the literary
editor of the great publishing house of Hachette
& Co., Paris, to prepare us a list of several of the
best works of each of the leading French authors
of the 19th century, including both prose and
verse. We studied this list carefully during the
past year, revised it with the aid of certain French
scholars both in this country and in France, sup-
plemented it, selected good editions, and had the
works bound under our personal supervision dur-
ing the past summer while in Paris. Bibliograph-
ies given us by two professors in the University
of Paris aided us in selecting a small working
library in the field of French literary and linguis-
tic history. For the first time the Library is now
equipped with sufficient books to enable us to of-
fer satisfactory courses in the history of the

French language from the earliest times, as well |
as history of the literature of France from the |

earliest times. Attention is called to such works
as Petit de Juleville and Bedier-Hazard, whose
epoch-making works on the history of the lang-
uage and literature are sought by French scholars
everywhere,

The famous illustrated weekly, “L’Illustration,”
is on file in the reading-room where is is enjoyed

‘by large numbers of students.

THOS. W. LINGLE.

READ THIS AND WEEP

On October 20th, the Woman's Auxiliary of the
North Carolina Synod began its 13th annual ses-
sion at the First Presbyterian Church in Greens-
boro. At this meeting the fact was brought be-
fore the assembly that there is not a Presbyterian
institution in the Synod at which young women
may pursue post-graduate work, while at David-
son men who desire to take an M. A. degree or do
post-graduate work are able to do so under very
profitable conditions, as the college offers such
courses in any subject that is offered to under-
graduates. There is also an adequate library on
the campus which contains all material needed
for reference.

A motion was made and passed by the Auxiliary
which provides for a recommendation to‘the trus-

tees of Davidson College, asking them to allow |

women to take up post-graduate work here.

If this recommendation is granted by the trus-
tees it will necessitate the building of a dormitory
for the wome nstudents, besides incurring other
large expenses upon the college, when it seems
that the same plans could be much better carried
out if done at a female institution where such
changes would not necessitate such a large ex-
pense upon the institution. For instance, if this
course were offered at one of our Presbyterian
women’s colleges no new building would have to
be erected to care for the students, and they would
be able to do better work in a woman’s college
than they would here.

While the Davidson students do not wish to
appear selfish or unaccommodating, those with
whom the writer has talked believe that it would
not be beneficial to the college to admit women
students, for if the students here have many more
distractions to keep them from their studies there
will be a home-going day established right after
the first semester each year’ that will vie with
Home-coming day in the fall.

—WOMAN HATER.

Minor Chords

MUSING
Deep in thine eyes mine own can read
Of fairer beauties than reside
Within a dreamy Iris heart
Or in the picture of a pool,
Charmed with the glory of the skies
And autumn leaves and colored. sun
That show their likeness i nthe crystal depths
When the long day is done.

O that I could but tell, dear heart,
The sacred message that they bear
Only the sweep of fragrant winds
Only the silence of the stars
Or some strange scene that memory bears,
Can tell the mystery of those eyes of thine,
The joy of open seas and summer skies, and O
That those eyes were mine!

—JAMES HENLY CALLIGAN.

in all affairs pertaining‘ to international se-
“curity.

Students of Davidson and of other col-
leges are being asked by the association of
colleges and the Y. M. C. A. to co-operate
with those who have this issue vitally at
heart so that this question will be decided
upon favorably by the Senate. No David-
son student will go wrong by making a deep
study as to the merits and the outcome of
this most important question.

|

OUT ONE
’26—Did Don Wharton have his picture struck?

’290—Yep. He struck out in the first inning.

WHAT PRICE LAW?

Necessity knows no law.
Bootleggers know no law.
THEREFORE: Bootleggers are a necessity.

Fresh McGoof says he wishes his name were
Gridley so he could kick up his heels and smile in
anticipation of the fair sex when they say: “Fire
when ready, Gridley.”

MODERNISTIC MOONINGS

Scene: Somewhere in the vicinity of the Wild-
cat’s lair on a beautiful moonlight night.

DAVIDSON (getting a little closer)—Moonlight
is said to have a therapeutic power second only to
peroxide.

QUEENS (responding)—I understand that Da-
vidson has been scored upon only once this sea-
son. ‘

DAVIDSON (he timidly fingers her delicate lily
white hand)—Yes, the value of Greek in the col-
lege curriculum can hardly be over-estimated.

DAVIDSON (carressingly closing his manly
arm around her)—Something over two thousand
pieces of mail a day are received at our post of-
fice.

QUEENS (leaning on his shoulder)—Wallace
Beery is my favorite movie sheik.

DAVIDSON (sipping sweet nectar from her
saccharine lips)—The consumption of Coco-Cola
has increased alarmingly among the younger gen-
eration. And too, I hear that Einstein’s theory
has been disproved.

QUEENS (rapturously embracing him)—Paris
says that skirts will be three inches shorter this
winter.

BOTH (wandering off to see the Wildcat)—The
new model Ford has found a welcome reception
among the intelligentsia of the country.

Stewed Stude—Roland, let’s go co-edding to-
night.
Roland Parker—Can’t go. Got a sore arm.

CAN YOU?

He—Can you read lips?
She—Only by the touch system.

Be it ever so dumb belle, there’s no girl like my

own. 3
IN ENGLISH CLASS
(A new variation)

Fresh—Great Scott, I can’t think who in th’ .
heck wrote Ivanhoe.

Soph—I'd like to know who in the dickens wrote
The Tale of Two Cities.

MAN THE MASOLEUM

Let’s sing a sad lay
For Freshman McMeans.
He started talking of Salem
While down at Queens.

IMAGINE THIS IN THE DAVIDSONIAN
(Headline in the Tar Heel)
VANDERBILT TRIP
BUSTS DR. CHASE
and
GRAIL DANCE IN. -
BYNUM HALL TONITE

By the official count of our own statistician, the
headline, WALTER JOHNSTON MAKES PI-
RATES WALK THE PLANK, was thought of by
3.546 sports writers.

A slippery young fellow was Sutter,
A slippery young fellow was Stutter,
He beheld a horse-fly in the butter;
When he tried to look in
He got mired to his chain
“Well, I g-got him,” was all he could stutter.

Our friend Hank Sedberry, the bank cashier has
absconded with three thousand berries of the
depositors’. They have telegraphed a full de-
scription of him to the sheriff at Miami.

Major Huie—Pass in review!
Fresh Causey—If I pass this review, it'll be the
first thing that I’ve passed this month.

HOT AIR
Our idea of natural gas is a duel of words be-
tween a hole-in-one golfer and a five tube radio-
logist, with a Florida and a California man as
seconds.
FRED SMITH.
