4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 5, 1925

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE.-.........-.-Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN. Busi M

Editorial Staff

Cc. F. SMITH. Managing Editor
WE OMILTONG 3 2s eee Assistant Managing Editor
Cc. F. MONK... -Assistant Managing Editor
A. ¥; SIMPSON.......-<. <2 cee Peanut Parcher Editor
HBS PRICRessess-coscee-oe A Editor
Wig Hie BRANGHSs2s6oi ee ese hire Associate Editor |
H. L. SHAW... -Associate Editor
G. D. ROGERS. ---Alumni Editor ©

L. D. WHARTON

Business Staff
H. .D. BURKE_-.-....--

. A. THOMPSON...
1, Y, ALEXANDE

T. C. McSWAIN...

.-.--.---Advertising

sistant Circulation Manager
-Subscription Manager

COR GH UNDE Re isiuscsccsccsecccssutessiasecstueuee Bookkeeper
J. M. GARRISON... -Service M
Wit Hii VN GHee cocscee cee ee roc eec doce Correspondent

Reporters’ Club
[

.. B. GIBBS, President J. M. GARRISON
D. G. WILSON, Vice-Pres. J. P, GLADNEY
A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas. A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH
C. R, ANDERSON P. F. JONES
jj M. APPLEBY J. D. LAWS

. M, AUSTIN W. _H. LYNCH
Cc. L. BRAGAW. R. H. McILWAINE
V. S. BROYLES J. EF, MOORE
D. M. CALHOUN C. C. MURCHISON
W. T. COVINGTON *. P, O'CONNOR
W. T. DAVIS B. PARKER
G. M. EDDINGTON E, K, REGEN
F. T, FRANKLIN . B. THOMPSON
L. L. DECK W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

One month of the final term has slipped
by, and one month more will see the gala
event of the spring Junior Speaking.

Sees py

Junior Speaking is the occasion by which
all passage of time is measured.
lead to Rome.

——D
The class of ’26 has been making prepara-
tions ever since coming back last fall. The
successful way in which they conducted the
lyceum courses to make money to help
cover the financial end, argues well for the
success of the Easter holidays.
pases p a
Sixteen out of twenty-two is the Wildcat
cage record. The Wake Forest game Satur-
day night provided a perfect ending to one
of the most successful seasons in years.

D

Few players in the state can equal Tom
Anderson’s record of two hundred and nine-
teen points. The Red and Black center

played a consistent game throughout the
whole season,

SEO p eats

Baseball practice has at last started. The
Great national pastime is underway once
more and the dopesters are busy figuring out
the Wildcat chances in the state race. If the
Red and Black squad can find its batting eye,
they may furnish stiff opposition in the
championship race.

| p aie

Tuesday night the six men who will rep-
resent the Red and Black on the platform
against Wake Forest and the Michigan
Aggies were chosen.
viable debating record, and the two teams
will have their handsfull taking care of the
opposition. We have confidence in the
ability of the teams selected,
D

The March winds do blow. After the mild
February, winter has taken a new lease on
life, and bids fair to eclipse all previous cold
wave records. Boil one day and freeze the
next seems to be the order of the winter.
But we should worry since Easter doesn’t
come until the second week in April.

D:

Track and tennis are starting to make
their bid for aubremacy, along with the
good old game of baseball, to say nothing of
spring football. The merchants of the town
have donated liberally to the class meet to
be held this afternoon.

__ A large number should compete and give
“Coach Tilson a line on the material from
_ which he has to draw.

A

Po .

pred Circulation Manager |

All roads —

Davidson has an en- |

Where is Heaven?
What purpose animates them? Do they
see God? Do they love His company? Is
their life devoid of adventure? What is
the wisdom of heaven-dwellers? We will
let Rudyard Kipling deal with these ques-
tions, questions which every human asks,
and questions which he answers to the
satisfaction of red-blooded men,

Who lives there?

In what is probably Kipling’s most serious
poem, written in memory of his deceased
brother-in-law, Wolcott Ballestier, he gives
a description of life on the other side,
which wonderfully majestic and com-
pelling. The poem is entitled, “Dedication
to ‘the Barrack-Room Ballads.”

Where is Heaven?

Heaven is “beyond the path of soutmost
sun,” further than ever “planet flared or
erring star-dust swirled.”

Who Lives There?

In Heaven shall dwell those “who fought
and sailed and ruled and loved and made
our world.” They are “purged of pride”
and “cleansed of base desire, sorrow and
lust and shame,” and enjoy the company
of those who walked on earth “in humble-
ness and gentleness and honor and clean
mirth.”

What Purpose Animates Them?
It is “their will to serve or be still, as

is

HEAVEN AS KIPLING SEES IT

A Place Where “Those Who Served His World” Meet “The Master of
Every Trade”

Hear Professor Carl Wachter’s Interpretation of Kipling, March 20

fitteth their Father’s praise.”
Do They See God?
Yes. “Oftentimes cometh the Great Lord
God, Master of every trade, And tells them
tales of His daily work,

Of Eden’s newly made,
And they rise to their fect
As He passes by—
Gentlemen unafraid.”

Do They Love His Company?

Yes. Not only is it their will to serve
Him, but they are of those who “praise
their God,” because “they served His
World.”

Is Their Life Devoid of Adventure?

No. “It is theirs to sweep thru

The ringing deep,

Where Israel’s outposts are,

Or buffet a path thru the pit’s red wrath,

When God goes out to war,

Or hang with reckless seaphim

On the tail of a red-maned star.”
What Wisdom Have They Learned?

They have learned: “to take their mirth
in the joys of earth” for they “dare not
mourn for her pain.” They “Know of toil
and thesend of toil,” and they know God's
law is plain.” So they “whistle the Devil
to make them sport, who know that sin is
vain.”

CONVICTIONS

He man who has the courage to stand

up for what he thinks is right is al-

Ways respected and admired in any
society. He may not have the agreement of
everyone in his opinions, but he has what is
worth for more—respect.

Courage is necessary at all times, courage
to stand up for beliefs which others may
ridicule. But ridicule often hides the deep-
est respect, and as time goes on the ridicule
ceases and respect grows.

Davidson prides herself on the develop-
ment of character, which after all is the
prime requisite of manhood. Here, as in
any school, a man faces every test at some
time or other, and if he meets them squarely
is made a better man because of the expe-
rience,

But it is after leaving college, that a man
sees less of high idealism and more of the
cold, hard facts of life. In life, he is often
faced with the conflict between money and
a future and his convictions. Then it is
that the real stuff in him is shown.

A few days ago the papers carried the fol-
lowing headlines, “Pat Crawford Refuses to
Play Sunday Ball.” At Davidson Pat was
for your years one of the mainstays of the
Wildcat diamond outfit, which he captained
one year. He was also in his Senior year
president of the Y. M. C. A. and respected
by every man on the campus for his Chris-
tian ideals,

-at believes that it is wrong to play base-
ball on Sunday, and he has stood by his con-
viction in spite of the fact that by so doing
he drops out of class A baseball and possibly
a chance to go to the majors.

A possible chance of “going up” to the
big top is one which few could resist.
Whether Sunday baseball is right or wrong
is a question which we will not argue. The
big thing is that conviction won over money
and possible fame.

“Organized baseball would be better for
a few more like him,” is the comment of one
of the sporting editors of the state. By his
action, Pat has not only won a victory over
self and shown himself to be a “big leaguer”
in the highest sense of the word, but he has
won the respect of all.

May conviction always win.

Elections will begin in a couple of weeks
and by the fifteenth of April the old officers
will fade out of the picture, and turn over
the reins of government to their successors.
Whatever we do, the time always comes for
others to take our place, for the world and
time wait for no one.

ap)
The earthquake in New York the other

| night jolted a prominent Senior out of his

bed. He woke up to find his bed shaking.

and as the.door was locked and the fresh-,

man was safe in his bed, he put two and two
together and decided it must be &n earth-
quake. We are glad to note that he didn’t
attribute the phenomenon to the spirits.
There are plenty of nuts on the campus
without adding a Spiritualist to the list.

WARREN COX WRITES
OF EXPERIENCES IN
ORIENTAL TRAVEL

A letter has just been received from Warren
Cox, '24, the Davidson College representative at
Hangchow College, in which. he tells of some of
his impressions and experiences. Part of the
letter is as follows:

“In regard to China, and me. T have learned
a lot more in the three months that I have been
out here than T realized.was unknown when [
left college. Seeing the “other half”
world makes one more tolerant of other peoples,
and more intolerant of the American ideas of
dominance. The missionaries had implanted such
pictures in my mind of the poor, starving, un-

of the |

happy people out here that my mind had to un- |

dergo quite a change, when IT found that they

are just as happy as we are’ that their home life |

is in many respects much better than sours; that

their system of morals make Christianity stand |

on a much higher plane in China than it is
usually in America; that even though they do

eat with chop-sticks and wear long gowns, and |

stand their umbrellas upside down, that they have
just as much right to those practices as we have to
the ones of eating on a nice clean tablecloth, or
taking BOTH hands to eat with (like gluttons),
or eating so much beef and mutton, like savages.
Did you know that Americans had an odor?
Well, you ask the Chinese and you will find that
they have “a most peculiar odor! They say it
comes from eating so much meat and drinking
so much milk. Americans don’t commonly think
of themselves as Possessing such an abominable
thing.

“Am planning to take a trip somewhere dur-
ing Chinese New Year. Had thought of going to
Philippines but found it cost too much, Then
planned a trip to Mukden, via Dairen, and Korea,

but am afraid that that will be too cold. Hope to |

go somewhere, though. Summer after next, if T

can get a good traveling companion, I am plan-

ning (or looking forward to) go up the Yangste

through the gorges. It’s hard to realize that the |

trip will cover five thousand miles and take three |

or four months, and there are plenty of robber |

bands up there. ete. Don't you want to come
along and join the party?

“Give my regards to all the Davidsonians.
Surely wish IT could be back with you this year.
I find myself rather busy however with learning
plenty of chemistry.” :

Red McComb’s Latest

IT will now exonerate you with discharming lit-
tle smile-maker, entitled: “Because of the high
price of eggs I call my hen, McDuff, and when-
ever I see her, I say, ‘Lay on, McDuff.’”

“What's the matter, little boy?
crying?”

“Mama’s gone and drowned all the little kit-
tens,”

) “Dear me! That's too bad.”

“Yep, she-boo-hoo-promised me I could do it.”

Why are you

She Lived in the Country
Diamond Dick McCarthy will now render us
his most immaculate little ditty, ‘entitled, “I call
my sweetie Velvet, because she’s aged in the
wood,”

Chaff

As ’25 Wrote to His Girl in ’20
“Jaybirdsville,
Semptimbry i4, i920

Deer mAriE,

I retch hear yestiddy ok. Hope thet I retched
here with you felin’ as fine as whin I left you.
Keep the old Sookie good and don’t lett th ecafe
dye.

yrs. trooly,
Jule.
and

As he recently wrote an unknown female cor-
respondent after a Davidson Cross-word course:

“Davidson, March sth.
Dear Ruth,

It behooves me now that I must in my turn
contemplate excoriating you with’ this most su-
preme effort at an epistularly concoction dedi-
cated to a fair (?) damsel of the Barker clan who
bears the Christian nomen above. Therefore, I
meekly approach the bowered shrine of said fair
one and intimidate her with these few pages of
intrepid reading matter, soliciting her perusal
and, ultimately, if such seems to her good know!-
edge best, a prompt reply.

In connection with benevolence in writing you
these notes, I may say that it was neither my in-
tent nor purpose to enter the ring as an ardent
opponent of Broyles, but just to send a few words
to Georgia since I am able to write but a couple
of thousand daily to a beautiful miss in South
Georgia. IT find it such a little bit of trouble to
cogitate that amount for reading or writing mat-
ter that the effervescent spirit of my Waterman's
instils in me the philanderous desire to eke out a
few syllabic expressions to one who can write me
other than the South Georgia epistles. T negate
that the joy of those letters at all intimidates
me, bu I find that in variety is found the spice of
life and my fastidious tastes decrees to me the
use of an abundance of peppers and other spices.
Therein is variety a welcome adjunct, readily ac-
ceptable in my box.

In regard to the revelation of my personal
identity, I find that romance and dramatic touch,
are added when there is a spirit if intrinsic
mystery commingled with the contemporaneous
course of events. ‘Herein lies the secret of the
initials, “J. R. B.” That is I, in personam. If my
name were suddenly revealed to you, you would
not know but that it were a fallacious represen-
tation of trustworthy facts utterly imprecarious
and unlimited imaginative source.

I am donor to you of a chance to use your in-
genuity that you may learn of those indicative let-
ters. In your city is a man of jurisprudence, a
practioner of the convivial judgment and ethics
of one Blackstone who instituted the ten com-
mandments of procedure for each forensic fray of
legal nature. This practioner, one Buster Lawson,
may reveal to you the missing portions of the
name, “J. R. B.” provided you refer this minute
matter to his scholarly self.

‘Darling boy” is the term that you applied to
this miserable wretch. How emblazoned with false
pride I am at such flattery. I suppose that, as a
reciprocal measure, I should speak of you as
“darling girl.” Of‘course I realize that you are
none other than that, but wise discretion informs
me as to the prudence of such a step. I will
soothe my ardor by terminy you just “dear.” It
was with magnanimous pleasure that I received
and read your missile of postal art and devolved
the pulsating plan of reciprocal reaction consum-
mating in this tragic effort of multifarious
phrases. However, now, for the past three days
I have felt the curse of infirmity of the flesh. I
have experienced an obstreperous conglomara-
tion of sensations to such an extent that I feel
like old man Satan himself before daybreak on a
cloudy ‘“antermeridian.” re

I do not in the least object to your capabilities
as a talker, for, as a matter of fact, I am a com-
paratively good listener. Since I will revert to
the role of reader in our correspondence,, I caa
stop and re-commence at by own behest. Don't
feel that I will be in the least offended by the
priggishness of your volubility, for I, myself, de-
test mere fluctuations of weather reports and
brief treatises on popular cosmetics as compound-
ed into but a few phrases of detestible brevity. I
enjoy indulging in the perusal of real big, fat,
“fleshy,” corpulent, magnanimous epistles. In
fact, I am almost persuaded to say that, if your
reply does not attain double the proportions as-
sumed by this missile, I will be utterly chagrinned
and feel disinclined to indulged further in) the
play.

For the themes of our essayistic correspond-
ence, let us choose whatever thems you may
select, treating on morals, love, or any species of
subject material whatsoever. I pray that you will
feign be not offended at the confining brevity of
this note, but will you advantageously employ

~-your spare’ moments in the gruesome task of de-

volving some reply to this note to

5 An admiring Don Juan, |
: J. R. B.
Query: Are Davidsonian Cross-word pussles bene-
Cc. F. M.

ficial?
