ae

THE DAVIDSONIAN, May 14, 1925 <

=—=

The Davidsoniar.

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of David f
thal Beecua ate as Mail Matter o!

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hand
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Aileen
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH. Editor

j

HAROLD D.. BURKE.-.......------.----- Business Manager |

EDITORIAL STAFF
WirHipB RAN GHiccsccscsarsente eraser eer coe Managing Editor
L. D. WHARTON.-. --Assistant Managing Editor
Pili) ONE Stevarscucd. nee --Assistant Managing Editor
W. E. MILTON. Athletic Editor
R. B. PARKER. iate Editor

cusacA

ASEY (es BOW I Deusentcst ices casurests soe ---Associate Editor
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH... -Associate Editor
By (PR OICONNORS case owt cucecie cosa cases Alumni Editor
H. D. BURK Business Mana

W. H. LYNCH ant Business Manaccr
H. Y. ALEXAN -Circulation Manager
J. M. GARRISON ubscription Manager
CE W aAWITUDTAM Sous 25h Gages is ar arenas icitor
BP DOUGLASS ate

ae By HAN Oistwonaccseccceacu=salseceuceuenenee Assistant
JULIAN LAKED Se ee, Service Department

Reporters’ Club

G. M. EDDINGTON, Pres. W._S. GORDON
V. S. BROYLES, Vice-Pres. J. F, HOLLINGSWORTH
B. MARTIN

C. C. MURCHISON, Sec.-Tr, B. I
W. ANDERSON R. H. McILWAINE
W. H. ALLISON J. P. McKNIGHT
H. M. AUSTIN J, E, MOORE
F. K. BELL E. K. REGEN
Cc. L, BRAGAW H. L. SHELBY
D, M. CALHOUN J. B. THOMPSON
Wis ity SONENGTON J. B. WEBB

OY, é . G. WHARTON
E. L. DOUGLASS i. WILSON
F. T. FRANKLIN C., WITHERS
J. P. GLADNEY W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

Sixteen more days—then home!
EES p Ee

Baseball and track are things of the past.
Examinations, what ho!

Now is the time for that last dig at your
Studies. It will save many a head-scratch
during examinations.

a ee

We've all heard about those grape-fruit

girls—you squeeze them and they hit you
in the eye.

SBE p jena,

All undergraduates are looking forward
to next fall when they can park their John
- Wards beneath the handsome seats in the
new Chambers. Things won’t be the same,
brother. Mark them words.

1D} ————

This issue of The Davidsonian marks the
last of this year’s effort at putting out the
best college paper in the South. With the
coming of a new college year, the financial
affairs will have all been straightened out
and a long road filled with success. will be
opened. The present staff intend to do their

level best to make this publication better
than ever.

1D)

Long-legged John Currie’s performance in
the Greensboro track meet has caused a
glow of honest pride in every Davidsonian.
Anyone who can run a hundred yards in less
than ten seconds has our support every time.
John not only did that but he equalled the
world’s record by making a time of 93-5
seconds. He pushed Sholz, an Olympic man,
so hard that the latter ran the century in
95-10 seconds, which is a world’s record.
Only four men have equalled Currie’s record.
| D aan

Vacation is only around the corner, now.
Those long three months are ours to. use,
and we can use that time to a good advan-
tage, or we can waste it. A little systematic
study during the whole of that vacation
would work wonders in helping us get start-
ed back into school work next fall. Then is
the chance to read those books, to write that
play or poem, or to do anything for which
ou didn’t have time this year.

Des

_Sunday was’ appropriately observed as

Mother’s Day. nee elatould endeav-

or.to make’ every day a Mother’s Day. We

can write her, or let her know that she is

‘uppermost in our minds and hearts. Dur-
_ ing these vacation months when we are at
home, we can strive to show by acts of
kindness and love, the great appreciation
that we have for her. :

Ae

THE STUDENT STORE

HE store that was fostered by student
initiative and that has been kept up

by the generous patronage of every
member of the Davidson study body, has
done well indeed. It has run only a little
over a year, and during that time, has de-
livered a nice profit. It has served the stu-
dents well, and they in turn ‘have accorded
it their whole-hearted support.

The editor of The Davidsonian published,
last year, a strong plea for the use of the
- profits that are derived from the manage-
ment of this store, towards the building up
of the various publications that are an in-
tegral part of the student body.’ The David-
sonian was one of the price factors in the
securing of this store, and it has taken a
lively interest in its welfare. What it does
desire to see new, is the wise use of the
profits in the fostering of The Davidsonian,
the Davidson College Magazine, and the
Quips and Cranks, —

It is hard for the average student to real-
ize what a hard time the college paper has,
especially in a town the size of Davidson.
The merchants of the town are willing to
Jack the publications but they cannot be ex-
“pected to do more than a fair share. Char-
lotte keeps up two large daily papers, several
religious papers, college publications, and in
addition, is called upon by the students of
Davidson to advertise in three or four dif-
ferent publications, Ads are hard to get at
times, and to some merchants, it seems more
a matter of philanthropy than business.

The student body contributes about a
third or a half of the total amount necessary
to put out a creditable publication. The oth-
er part is expected to be secured by the
efforts of those who have the interest of the
think at heart. The Davidsonian has had
hard sledding indeed, but it has emerged
triumphant, and is recognized as the best
college newspaper in the state, and by many
as the best in the South. It has done this in
spite of the fact a large debt has stood in
front of it most of the time, and in spite of
the fact that there has never been an ade-
quate office given over to the work; no
typewriters, office equipment, or anything
else. It has certainly led a hand-to-mouth
existence during the large port of its ex-
istence,

The Magazine, for instance, Imagine a
literary college such as Davidson publishing
only one literary magazine during the entire

college year. Even a second rate high school:

can do better than that. How can any col-

lege hope to foster the very best of literary ”

ideals when its students have no organ for
the expression of their literary emotions
other than a magazine that comes out once
per annum.

We recognize that a liberal sum has been
given out of the proceeds of this store, to
the Athletic Association. That is just.
Athletics are important, but so is literary
work, What The Davidsonian would like to
see would be a proportionate division of the
profits of the Student Store; a certain per
capita going to this paper, the same to
Quips and Cranks, and perhaps a smaller
percentage to the Magazine. We know that
this would insure a better publication, and
this in turn would help the student body to-
wards that sphere of usefulness to which
they aspire.

RETRIBUTION?

Again the high and mighty majesty of the
law has found its victims. The grasping
tentacles of justice reached out and entangl-
ed themselves around the bodies of Cal
Stewart, the older, and Elmer Stewart, the
younger. Last Friday the lives of these
two men who were convicted of the murder
of two other men, were snuffed out by the
relentless power of electricity. They paid
the penalty that has been imposed upon
those who would kill.

Father and son they were, both fine-look-
ing specimens of vigorous physical man-
hood. In anticipation of the dual execution,
the trappings and paraphernalia of the
death-room had been made new. The strap

) had been replaced by new leather ones, the
metal helmet was shiny, and éven the Bible
used in the last simple religious rites was a
new one. The old man entered the death
chamber with a firm step. He had made
peace with his God, and was ready. His last
words were words of exhortation to those
that heard him, in which he urged them to
live like Christians. When the sinister pow-
er of the unseen force hit the body of the
man, he crumpled in the death chair. A
horrible moment of sputtering sparks and
broiling human flesh, the smell of charred
skin,—and then, death came.

The young Stewart was a fine-looking
chap. One would have taken him for a foot-
ball player of some college, or a catcher he-
hind the bat on a league team. He had
poise, and his features were clean-cut. He
was not cock-sure as he was lead to the
chair. His was none of the sullen courage

Open Forum

Chaff

“OUR WILD YOUNG PEOPLE”

Slowly and surely as the charges of worldliness,
materialism and immorality are being piled up
against the college boys of the present genera-
tion, facts based upon statistics are being bal-
anced on the other side that in the end will show
that the average American student of today is
turning to better things than his fathers.

Novel after novel has appeared in the last few
years with the theme of the wildness of the
younger generation underlying the plot; maga-
zines splurge whole section to show the exploits
of the “rah, rah boys”; and newspapers clamour
for sensatioanl stories of crime and immorality
from the same sources.. But wild as the boys and
girls may be from the outward appearances their
outlook upon life seems to be a bit higher, a good
bit more of the idealistic viewpoint previals.

Statistics from Harvard, taken from the mem-
bers of tle seniors class, are what the above
statements are based upon. Although forty-five
per cent of the fathers of the Harvard men are
engaged in business, only 21 per cent of their sons

will enter that work; although only 5 per cent of |
the fathers are in the profession of medicine, 15 |
per cent of their sons will become doctors; al- |

though only 3 per cent of the fathers are engaged

in teaching, 10 per cent of the graduating class |
The list of the |
occupations in order of diminishing money re-

will enter the fields of education.

op

turns is: “Business, law, medicine, education, the

church.”

So it seems that there is some great change in
the youth of Harvard, and certainly Harvard is
a typical college of typical American students,
when 53 per cent of the sons of business men
(probably successful business men at that) have
decided not to enter that field; certainly their is
a great change in the youth when the trend to-

ward the less remunerative occupations is 100 per |

cent stronger than that of the past generation.
In the words of the Times: “Apparently the
appetite for money-making in the United States
is on the decline and the instinct for service is
thriving among our supposedly wild young peo-
ple.”
DON WHARTON.

Minor Chords

SACRIFICE
‘ By Joe Earnest

Deep in a cove of the mountains,
By a narrow grave,
Where no light or sunshine
To warm the little mound
Ever penetrates,
No pathway winds along the brook
That trickles near the tomb.
A spot, forgotten by man;
In the eyes of God, mere clay.
Tiny fingers, dried with age,
Two eyelids, closed ere scarce they opened
A voice that was, but is no more,
Repose beneath the gloom.
A single cry there was,
A muffled wail,
'Till murderous’ claws in shame
Clutched the tender throat
And sacrificed a human life
To, cheat society.

A SONG AT NIGHT
I think the moon should always shine
In silver fragments thru a pine.

The moon behind a maple tree
Is gay, like woman’s love to me.

The leaves of poplars seem to make
The moon an icy mountain lake.

And oaks are like cold mists that rise
And blot the stars from out the skies.

While willows are like arms that place
A veil of darkness o’er his face.

But pine leaves are like hidden darts
That pierce the moon’s sad silver heart.

I think the moon should always shine
In silver fragments thru a pine.
—E. P. O’Connor.

of his father’s. He loved life—and vouth.
But the hovering form of death bore him
away, even as his father had been taken
away from this earth a few minutes before.

It is not up to us to say whether capital!

punishment is right or wrong. Some say
that murder is murder, whether it is legal-
ized or not. Others say that the solemn
majesty of the law must be upheld at any
cost. Be it as it may, the taking of human
life is a serious thing. Maybe there is an
excuse for it. va

We just wonder whether this young man,

in the full spring of youth, was given a fair.

chance. We wonder whether he would not

Speaking of fashions, the first woman to get
her clothes from Paris was Helen of Troy.

The old mountaineer was dying. He lay on
his death bed, and even as he started to speak,
his nostrils quivered almost imperceptibly as he
smelled something. He addressed his words to
his daughter who stood near him, brushing her
teeth with a sprig of slippery-elm.

“Sis, can’t I have a bite of that ham I smell -
cooking?”

His daughter looked at him with impatience.
“Pa, ain't I done told you that ham is for the
funeral tomorrow?”

Let the entire congregation rise and join in
that old-fashioned duck song, “Waddle I do.”

The only difference between the old-fashioned
kiss’and the kiss of the present age is about five
minutes.

LITTLE BOYS’ BLUES

The old school books are covered with dust,
But mournfully, silent they stand.

And the old fountain pen is red with rust,
The ball field is covered with sand.

Time was when the mid-night oild burned low,
And the students were passing fair,

But that was the time when summer was not
And vacation was not in the air,

Bob Mitchell never has found out who that
guy, Oii Tempered is, whose name-he saw ona
baseball bat a few days ago. He might possibly
be singing first bass in the Eqworth League.

She was only a taxidermist’s daughter, but she
knew her stuff.

THINGS TO WORRY ABOUT

Champagne costs a hundred francs a quart in
Paris.

Tasmania is having an unprecedented number
of cock-roach collectors to contend with this
season, :

Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey’s
Circus have some attractive jobs open as lion
tamers. Board free (we don’t know whether that
means for the tamer or the lion.)

Scientists tell us that in the next billion years
that women will go back to fig leaves for clothes.

Lux—Didja hear about Summers? He was en-
gaged to marry a chorus girl.
Bon Ami—What folly!

Lux—Ziegfeld’s.

Speaking of follies, a chorus girl simply has to
have three important qualifications. A good voice
is one of them.

FOILED! BY GUM
A taill'and comely Plymouth Rock
Had found herself a nest.
And the farmer's wife placed fifteen eggs

In there at her request.

She sat upon those eggs a week,
Two weeks—and then ’twas three.
The old hen worried night and day—

Where could her children be?

Four weeks she sat and then there hatched
Young ducks with waddling legs.

And all of which will go to prove,
She didn’t know her eggs.

Above is the picture of the average student's
mind about examination time.

JOE EARNEST’S LATEST
“Oh, what is so rare as a horn in tune?”

have turned out more than a murderer if his
father had been a pal to him. A pal in fun
and in the finer things of life, rather than in
a life of crime and shame. Did thg plead-
ings and tears of a little mother back in the
hills have an effect upon’ her boy, or did the
father crush out any feelings of, home and
love? Did this boy ever realize that he was
headed toward destruction, and that his life
wag to pay for the wrongs that he had com-
mitted? No-one can say now.

Certain it is that there are those who
mourn now for the passing of a fine-looking
youth in the glorious stage of early man-
hood; one who might have felt the fires of
higher ambition and might have caught the
challenge to a higher service. If his father
had only been a pal, and could have directed
his steps.aright.
