THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 15, 1925

HARRY VANCE
D* Football
D Baseball
D Wrestling

In his Sophomore year, Vance won | thirty pounds heavier than he is. Tom is/of sport is gaining headway in the south. |

honor accorded him for he is one of the} This match, to be held Feb. 7, is furnistra=|
|most brilliant players ever produced by |ing a lively topic of conversation on the |
Davidson College. Weighing only 159} Hill as each fellow has hopes of beating |
pounds he has more than held his own |a team such as Navy. This comparative- |
jin every game against men twenty and |ly new and apparently not much thought |

The schedule as arranged by Coach Tex
and Manager Jim Patton is as follows:
March 28—V. P. I. at Blacksburg.
April 4—Wofford at Davidson.
April 11—U. S. C. at Columbia.

Fresh Cinder Squad to
Schedule > Several Meets

First Yearling Track Team For Da-

; : | vi il Teams—
three letters, and since then he has been a true football player in every sense of |For the past several years wrestling has | vidson Will Meet Good

a great factor in Davidson athletics. He
is a dynamic guard on the eleven, a hard-

hitting outfielder on the nine, and a pow- |

erful and untiring wrestler in the middle-
weight class.

Vance, especially in football, typifies
to perfection that’ indomitable and un-
flagging wildcat fight. Outweighed
throughout the season, and often almost
completely hidden by his massive oppo-
nent, he has nevertheless proven to be
one of Davidson’s greatest linesmen. His
fierce charges, like dynamite, frequent-
ly brought the runner down with an un-
erring accuracy. Time and again he has
swept in and demolished the apparently
faultless interference of the enemy, and
then crashed into the runner with an
unnerving tackle. Despite the over-
whelming weight against him, it is very
rare that any substantial gain is made
over his portion of the line. His offen-
sive work is as pronounced and as excep-
‘tional as his defensive. He cuts his man
with a preciseness and effectiveness that
is remarkable. Harry is not a spectac-
ular or flashy player. Nor is his wonder-
ful fight momentary. He is always a
fierce, charging, constantly fighting
guard—unswerving and unfaltering. His
greatest playing wasin the Clemson game
of 1923, and the Wofford, Clemson, Caro-
lina and Trinity games of the past sea-
son, The press was not slow in recogn-
izing his qualities, several papers plac-
ing him on the all-state pick.

In the 1924 baseball season, Harry be-
gan somewhat inauspiciously, but at the
end was hitting at a terrific pace, in the
last six games getting 10 hits out of
twenty-four times at the bat. As for -his

fielding, the News and Observer as-

serted after the game with N. C. State |

at Raleigh, that Vance’s brillinat catch
was the mose remarkable ever seen on
Riddick Field.

Last year, Vance was in the middle-
weight class on the Varsity wrestling
team, and proved to be an important fac-
tor in the excellent record made. Be-
cause of injuries sustained in football,
he was unable to begin early practice
on the mat this season; but will probably
be seen in action soon,

JIM HENDRIX
** Football
D Track

Since coming to Davidson as a boy with

high ideals, Hendrix has won for himself |

an enviable reputation. He is not only
an athlete of great repute but is a popu-
lar man on the campus as well.

Jimmy’s game is football, He is a
good defensive player but is at his best
on the offensive and is thought by many
to be the best broken field runner Da-
vidson has produced in many a_ year.
Often are the times that he has taken
the ball through a field strewn with op-
ponents, across’ the goal line, to the
amazement of the spectators. One of his
greatest pieces of broken field running
was in the Trinity game when he ran
forty yards for the first touchdown of
the Wildcats. He was placed on the
all-state team football by several of
North Carolina's leading papers, getting
a place on the second team in every
other daily.

On the campus Jimmy is extremely
popular, He is president of the student
body, spresident of the student council,
a member of the Kappa Sigma frater-
nity, social, and Omicron Delta Kappa
fraternity, honorary,

He is respected by the entire student
body not only because of his athletic
ability but because of his high ideals.
Jimmy stands for what is right mo matter
what the issue is. This is what has
gained for him his populartity on the
campus and is what will count when he
goes out into the world.

In losing Jimmy, a recognized leader,
Davidson loses a man who has meant
much to her and will without a doubt
bring much honor and credit to her in
years to come. There is some possibility
of his returning next fall. This would
mean much for the Davidson team and
the campus life.

TOM BAKER
D* Football
Tom Baker has..the distinct honor of
being the only Davidson man on the of-
ficial first team of the official all-state
' pick for the season of 1924. Well does
this “fire-eating Wildcat” deserve the

the word; speedy, possessing that indom- |
jitable courage that is essential to a Wild-
cat, and having a keen mind capable of
analyxing every play of his opponent.

“Brassie” has starred in every game in
which he has participated this past sea- |
json. In the Clemson game, especially |
| was his brillinat work noticeable to ev-
ery one. In the last quarter, after wear-
ing himself down fighting against the
Clemson huskies and knowing that he
was no longer able to do his best, he re-
quested Coach Monk to send in a sub-
stitute. It was at this point, when Tom
was leaving the field, that the whole
crowd rose to its feet and accorded him
one of the greatest ovations ever given
a hero who fought until he was unable
to fight longer.

In many games Tom has won the ap-
plause and admiration of the throng of
fans as he ran down the field under a
punt and nailed the man in his tracks.
In the Carolina game two giants, each
weighing twice as much as he, were
placed on him and even these could not
stop him. |

Tom is as popular on the campus as
he is on thé gridiron, Everyone knows
him and is proud to call him their friend
and anxious to call him a Davidson Wild- |
cat. He is a popular member of the Da-
vidson chapter of the Sigma Alpha Epsi-
lon fraternity. Tom is expected to cover
himself with glory again next year and
bring honor and fame to himself and to
his alma mater and again be known as
“All-State Tom.” |

Coach Younger’s Machine
Wrecked for First Time

|Hard-Hitting Buick Refuses to Give
| Way to Plunging Studebaker— |
Tilson Fights to Last |

Coach Monk Younger’s machine met |
disaster for the first time this year last |
Friday night; but this time by a speed. |
ing automobile and not an atheltic team. |
Coach Monk was retuning from Char-
lotte about ten-thirty after defeating |
Duke, with seven members of the basket- |
iball squad, About eight miles from Char-
lotte, Coach was traveling at a moderate
|speed, approaching a curve when Coach
| Monk saw the light of another automo-
bile coming toward him. He kept his
machine well on the right side of the
|road but when he saw the other’ ma-
chine was coming on his side also he
}even ran over into the mud. But it was
too late; the other man was too far
jon the wrong side and he crashed
into Coach’s car, whirling it half way
around into the road,

Fortunately no one was injured, but
{the damages to both cars was consider-
able. On Coach’s car the rear wheel
was broken, the fender and = running
board smashed, the brakes locked, and
the gears hung up. The total amount
of damage to his car amounted to about
three or four hundred dollars. On the!
other car, the left front wheel was brok-
en, the radiator was crushed, and the
windshield was broken. There were
four occupants of the other car, two
ladies and two men, all residents of
Charlotte. |

Coach’s car was a new Buick Standard
Six coach that had been run only a few
‘hundred miles. It was bought prior to
the holidays and was new and in perfect |
order in every respect.

POSTPONED CONCORD MEET
MAY COME SATURDAY EVE

The wrestling meet scheduled for last
week was postponed owing to the fact.
that a basketball game had been sched-
uled and a picture show afterward. |
| When Manager Patterson learned of this
\fact he wired the Concord team if it |
| would be possible to have the meet only |
|at 7 o'clock. The manager wired back |
{that most of the Concord team were
|working boys and didn’t get off work
|till 6 o’clock. Due to this it was decided
to have the meet in the near future.

At present no definite date has been
set but both teams are anxious to clash
and it is possible that they will come to-
gether either tomorrow or Saturday
night. Coach Weems’s team is in the
best of condition and is.ready to start
on the stiffest schedule of some years.
The Navy meet this year will give Da-
vidson the first opportunity to meet

jas he led the floor with 13 points. His play- | scrap.

_ features of the game. |

Pospect Fair .

‘been holding a prominent place among
other activities in the big eastern col-|
leges; in fact in some it is on a par with
basketball.

SUPERIOR TEAM WORK AND
TECHNIQUE OF WILDCATS

No freshmen will be eligible to par-
ticipate in any varsity track meets this
| spring on account of the inter-collegiate
| ruling. There will be a fresh track
team Which will engage in meets with
various other fresh teams and_ high
jschool squads around the country. All
freshmen will be eligible for this squad

(Continued from page 1)

Anderson (10) -- -- -- -- -- Kimball (8) |and a large number of candidates are

" Center ~. expected when Coach Tex issues the

Boggs, C. -- -- Ra ra te i Bagg (5) linitial call, Several freshmen have shown

3 Right guard up well in the fall practice; among these
IMGGOnnellin(2) sae Mogg

| being O’Neal and Stigler who made th>
| trip to Wake Forest last fall to run in the
Substitutions—For Davidson: Laird (4) | State cross-country race.
for Beall; Hewlett (4) for Staley; Staley; A meet with Charlotte Hi has been ar-
for Hewlett; Hewlett for Staley; Beall for|ranged to come off early in the spring.
Laird; Laird for Beall. For Duke—Butler) A meet with Winston-Salem as well as
for Graham; Cathey for Kimball; Kimball| with some fresh teams in
for Cathey; Graham for Butler; Webb for
Bagg; Bagg for Webb; Franks for Butler.
Referee: Sipley (Bucknell),

Left guard

the state is

son has produced a Wildkitten track
jteam it is expected that it will have a
| strong support from the student body,
jand make as good a record as have the
The Wildcats, starting from the first whis-| other fresh athletic teams.

tle an attack that Duke was never able to|
cope with to any success, ran wild over the} COACH TEX’S COWBOYS

more inexperienced team from Durham 2 TO OPEN SCRUB SEASON

win the second game, 39-22,

Saturday’s Game

©

The Duke team seemed dazed with the! There is a delightful treat in store for
speed and wonderful passing that the David- Davidson basketball enthusiasts this
son team showed on their home floor. Sev- | week. Saturday night they will see
eral times ‘the Wildcats would go on long|Coach Tex Tilson’s mysterious team go
sprees of scoring, in the first period ringing | Up against the strong American Legion
up 12 points while the Duke team was held | five at Charlotte. Very little is known
scoreless, and in the final half accounting|of the aggregation from Charlotte but
for 16 consecutive points with Duke again|it is rumored that they will present a
idle, | well-balanced and smooth-working ma-

Every Davidson player passed with deadly | chine.
accuracy, but the brilliant playing of Spec | The strength of Tilson’s team is even
McConnell flashed greater than ever before,/!ess known, this being “their first real

ing was easily the outstanding feature of |and that is that there is some very good
the game. |material in the squad. Faucette was

Duke opened the game with a field goal, | picked last fall on the first all-class team
scored by Captain Bullock, but McConnell|/as forward, and is showing up good.

then broke loose and caged three straight.| Lawson, Cooke and Goodykoontz were,

Hewlett, easily the fastest man on the floor, | all on the second all-class team, and all
promptly added three more points, Staley | three, especially Cooke, are playing fast
and Anderson caged a couple of goals from) ball. “Nick” Sappenfield, Hudgins and
the field, the half ending with the Wildcats |“Brassie” Baker are setting a fast pace,
leading, 17-10, | while “Red” McComb and Matthews are

A few minutes of close and desperate | both likely to be seen in action.
playing marked the start of the final period,| It will be the first opportunity of see-
then the Red and»-Black tossers struck their | ing Coach Tilson’s yet unnamed team,
stride again and with the score standing|and a record crowd is expected. The
22-16 in Davidson's favor, McConnell, ably| game starts at2 7:00. An admission of
assisted by the two forwards and Ander- | 10 cents will be charged.
son’s shooting, rolled up 16 straight points! The following is the probable line up
before the Methodists could call a halt. |for Tilson’s team:

Led by Captain Boggs, the Davidson: de-| Cooke, Right Forward.
fense was superb, “Sook’'s” great leaps into| Sappenfield, Left Guard.
the air to get the ball, his fine dribbling and Hudgins, Center.
pass-work were some of the most spectacular} Baker, Right Guard.
| Faucett, Left Forward.

In the last few minutes Coach Monk sent, Substitutes: Mathews, Gooodykoontz,
in several subs. McComb.

Bullock and Kimball stood out in the play
of the visitors while Hewlett, Staley, Ander-
son, Boggs, and McConnell starred for the |

COACH TILSON PLANS

Wildcats. (Continued from page 1)

The line-up and scoring follow: Hendrix, sprinter of renown and football
Davidson. Position. Duke. star par excellence, and “Red” McCombs,
Hewlett (7) -- -- -- -- -- Bullock (3) (C) | who is expected to equal his feat of breaking

Right forward the state record in the javelin throw this
Staley (9) -- -- -- -- -- -- -. -- Graham! year, And last but not by any means least

Left forward /we mention Williford, Davidson's “two-mile
Anderson (10) -- -- -- -- -- Kimball) (7) Wildcat,” who will “show ’em how” in this
| Center

event again this year.

The team suffered considerably from the
loss of men by graduation and otherwise last
Boggs (C) -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Moss | year, but with such material as Goodykoontz,

Left guard | Gudger, and others who will be out, Coach

Substitutions—For Davidson: Laird (2) | Tex expects to have a fighting organization.
for Staley; Beall tor McConnell; Hewlett | He says that although the chances are fairly
for Laird; Laird for Anderson; Huie for | slim, a little nourishment will tend to fatten
Laird; Hewlett for Beall; Simpson for | them up.

Boggs; Beall for McConnell. For Duke:| Regular practice will start about March
Windley for Graham; Butler (2) for Wind- 1, and a record turnout of candidates is ex-

McConnell (13) -- -- -- -- -. -. Bagg (6)
Right guard

jley; Franks for Bullock; Leiper (2) for pected by Coach Tex.

Butler; Ware for Bagg; Butler for Leiper; |
Bagg for Ware; Bullock for Franks.
Referee: Sipley (Bucknell).

Attempts were made to book meets with
Duke University and Wake Forest, but
schedules of the two institutions would not
permit.

pending. As this is the first time David- |

One thing is known, however, '

April 25—Clemson at Davidson.

May 3—State meet (place undecided).

Efforts were made by the other colleges
concerned to stage the state meet at David-
son, but the facilities for entertaining the
visiting athletes are inadequate, and the idea
had to be abandoned.

GOING TO SCHOOL BY RADIO

’

When John or Mary wish to go to college,
in 1930, the only expense entailed will be the
purchase of a radio set; if they wish to
Change colleges, that can be accomplished
by changing the wave length. Radio schools
have already been established, according to
reports emanating from Germany, and the
states of Georgia and Kansas.

Berlin—A_ radio university has recently
been started in Berlin. Its faculty is to be
composed of the most famous scholars of
Germany. It is to be called Hans Bredow
School, in honor of State Secretary Dr.
| Bredow, who was very influential in spread-
ing radio throughout Germany, and it has
been formally opened in the presence of the
representatives of the German government,
as well as of the University of Berlin and
several high schools of high standing.

Kansas State Agricultural College has es-
tablished a radio college which will broadcast
40 college extension courses during the next
eight months.

Mercer University, Macon, Ga., will offer
a series of four college courses. Pupils in

the radio classes will ‘be asked to send in
their names, reports on home asignments,
and requests
New Student.

for additional courses —The

© Hart Schaffner & Marx

Young Men Tell Us
We’ve Scored a
Bullseye

There’s just the right
swing of youthfulness
in these new clothes
of ours. They say the
styles are flawless,
there’s vigor, life, ZIP

in them.

Mellon’s

ON

(oor

RESOLUTIONS PASSED |

(Continued from page 1)
and The Davidsonian, and that they be en-
tered upon the records of the Student body.
Done this 16th day of December, 1924,
‘Davidson College, Davidson, N. C.
Signed: A. F. Simpson, Chairman,
C. M. S. McIlwaine,
C. F.. Smith,

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

The Most Convenient F or

Committee.

Younger was head coach of basketball
while at V. P. I. In 1922 his team went

the grapplers of any big eastern school.

pretty strong down in Atlanta.

Davidson Men

