Vol. XIII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON,

N. C., OCTOBER 15, 1925

No. 5

Davileon Wildcats Win
From Guilford Team in |
One-Sided Battle Here

Coach Younger Uses Reserves in
Piling up Overwhelming Score

HARRISON IS STAR

‘Davidson Varsity Shows up Poorly |

When Sent in During Final Period

The Davidson second team and reserves |

ran up a 26 to 0 score against Guilford on
Richardson Field, Saturday. The varsity

sat on the sidelines and watched their team- |

mates collect 26 points against the opposing

team, but when the were put in for a minute |

or two they were unable to tear through the
line and gain as consistently as their fellow
players. In fact, the only real gain the var-
sity made was a 15-yard run by Wells, net-
ting them the only first down they were able
to register.

The scoring was done in the first three
quarters, Guilford holding the Wildcats
scoreless during the last period. The first
touchdown came after a long steady drive
down the field of 60 yards, McCombs push-
ing the ball over, after having done most of
the driving. He also added an extra point
by kicking goal. Numerous substitutions
were made and all the reserves showed up
well.

In the second quarter 12 points were add-
ed in a similar manner, two long drives of
65 and 57 yards netting two touchdowns.
Both tries for goal by Lincoln after the
touchdowns failed. Leggette and Harrison
featured in this scoring and in the yardage
gained at this time, McComb having been
taken out because of an injured shoulder.
The work of Ritchie and Grey was also
especially noticeable in opening holes in the
line for the backfield.

In the second half the same team that had
started off the game again ran through the
Quaker line and pushed them back to their
goal posts. Here Arrowood broke through,
blocked a Guilford punt and recovered over
the goal line for another touchdown. Allen

(Continued on page 7)

Wildkittens Defeated in

Initial Game of Season

Strong High Point Team Hold
Davidson Yearlings Scoreless

Finding in the High Point eleven a team
of unusual strength for the opening of the
Davidson Freshman season, the young Wild-
cats went down before a spirited backfield to
the score of 14-0. The Davidson team dis-
played one weakness that spelt the difference
between victory and defeat, and that was the
absence of a real fighting defense when the
Purple Panthers got possession of the ball
within the shadows of the Davidson goal.
Time after time the Davidson line would go
crashing through the heavier Panther for-
wards to throw the fast backs for losses or
no gains—when in the middle of the field.
But when the High Point squad got the ball
within scoring distance either. the Davidson
defense crumble or the Panthers became en-
raged with fighting qualities. Anyway, the
trio of High Point bagks: Heath, Gleason
and Panqua, went crashing through the
Wildkittens for two touchdowns, and only
the final whistle saved the Davidson goal
from being crossed once again’

True enough the little Davidson squad
came to life as the first half was ending,
mached down the field with some neat run-
ning to find themselves on High Point's
seven-yard line and 30 seconds to play. Wen-
burg ventured a pass over the center of the
line which a Panther back knocked savagely
to the ground for a touchback. That time-
thwarted rally was about the last for the
*Wildkittens, save in the final quarter when
Wenburg tried some passing and got away

(Continued on page 5)

BASKETBALL TONIGHT

Class basketball, for years the only
inter-class sport at Davidson, begins
tonight with the Junior-Senior game
in the Alumni Gymnasium. The two
clubs have been practicing for the past
two weeks and will be in good condi-
tion for the game tonight.
class shows promise of developing
their best team since entrance at Da-
vidson, while the Juniors, winners of
the championship during the past sea-
3on, will put a strong team on the floor,

The Senior

The probable line-up for the game is :

* Juniors. Position. Seniors.
ING Ee RNase eee Huie
Calhouncssosseeee Jol’........Moore.
Clary or Leathers-C_______- Cook (c)

Simpson (c)
Goodykoontz----- LG-_Oden or O'Neal

Davidson Eleven Ready
for Game in Rock Hill
Against Bluestockings

Winthrop Campus Will Be Scene of
Battle for Presbyterian Football
Supremacy

Once again the little town of Rock Hill
and the big college of Winthrop become the
scene of a fight for the Presbyterian football
supremacy of the two Carolinas; Davidson
and P. C. will move into Rock Hill Saturday
morning for the annual clash between the
two schools that will probably be witnessed
this year by the largest crowd in the history
of the event.

Back in 1923, a weak, wabbling Davidson
eleven journeyed down to this same Palmetto
village, played scoreles ball for 57 minutes,
only to win in the final moment by Hunt's
place-kick. Times have changed since those
days of many defeats and few victories.
Saturday two of the best elevents of both
North and South Carolina will met in a
game that promises to abound with thrills.

Not strange to say, it was last year’s game
with Presbyterian in the mountain-shadowed
McCormick field at Asheville that brought to
light the crashing offense that Younger and
Tilson had built at Davidson. Enterng the

second half of that contest three points-to
the rear of P. C.’s score, the Wifdeats, led
by Jim Hendrix, played a brand of football
that spelt future success. Never waa word
more correctly spelt, either,

But Wildcats are far from being the ‘only
football men that have improved. Coach
Walter Johnston has built a team oround
quarterback Stamps that swept Erskine be-
tore it te the score of 33-0, and sent the
Clemson Tiger back with his claws trimmed
to the score of 13-9—two points less margin
than Auburn beat the same eleven.

As the two teams are working for the
battle, as the two coaches are planning for
the skilful maneuvering, the student bodies
of both schools are looking forward to the
contest.

Coach Younger will no doubt start the
same eleven against Presbyterian that met
the great Demon Deacon team in Charlotte,
with the possible exception of Hendrix at
quarter, who will be ruled out. In such an
event Grey will probably call signals, while
Leggette or Harrison will play at half. The
loss of Hendrix will greatly weaken the Da-
vidson offense, for as a quarter he has filled
the shoes of Sappenfield to a perfection.

Saturday’s game with Guilford showed
that Coach Younger has a few substitute men
who can stand the pace of varsity activity
about as well as his varsity, and should
Younger try Coach Rockne’s stunt of using
more than one team even when playing the
best of elevens it would not surprise some
football authorities.

The “As You Like Club” met with Mrs.
Roy Caldwell on Friday night, Mrs. Olin

NOTED PHILANTHROPIST PASSES AWAY

White being in charge of the program.

THE LATE JAMES

BUCHANAN DUKE

J. B. Duke Dies in New York Following

Severe Attack of Bronchial Pneumonia

Bids Extended to
Three New Men by
Alpha Phi Epsilon

Alpha Phi Epsilon, an honorary forensic
fraternity, recently clected three new men
to its number. They were C. M. Eddington,
W. T. Covington, Jr., and Harllee Branch.
This is a society of national prominence, hav-
ing local chapters in every state in the union.
This chapter was founded here three years
ago and since this time it has enjoyed great
success. Its members are: A. H, Hollings-
worth, H. L. Shaw, L. D. Wharton, C. W.
Williams, A. Y. Bowie, B. U. Ratchford, R.
B. Parker, C. T. Pullen, and W. M. Gracey.

Glenn Eddington, a member of the Senior
class, has throughout his stay in college been
one of the foremost speakers of his class.
He is a member of the Pandenic Literary So-
ciety, of which society he was .chosen vice-
president the latter part of last year. He
was also an alternate in the Junior-Senior
debate last year.

W. T. Covington, Jr., a member of the
Junior class, is also a good speaker and de-
bater. Bill is a member of the Metrophilian
Literary Society, and is first critic in it. He
has’ also been an outstanding man on the
campus. Besides holding offices in his class
he is a member of the “Y” Cabinet, a mem-
ber of the Student Council, and a member of
the Reporters’ Club.

Harllee Branch, a member of the Junior
class, is recognized as one of the most force-
ful speakers on the Davidson campus. He is

(Continued on page 5)

| Founder of Duke Foundation Fund
Called by Death

BURIED IN DURHAM

Davidson College Shared in His
Generous Gifts for Educational
Institutions

Mr. James Buchanan Duke, nationally
known water power developer and educa-
tional beneficiary, died at his New York
home on Saturday evening, October 10th, at
6:00 o'clock. He had been ill for several
weeks, suffering from bronchial pneumonia.
The funeral was held in New York City last
Monday, and interment was at, Durham, N.
C., last Tuesday, at 11 a.'m.

As head of the American Tobacco Co.,
Mr. Duke became known around the world.
This firm was later dissolved, and from it
the British-American Tobacco Company
came into being. Mr. Duke's father started
the American Tobacco Company, taking his
two sons, Benjamin Duke and James B.
Duke, into the firm with him. When James
Duke was 18 years old he became general
manager of this company.

Several years ago Mr, Duke's attention
was turned to the fact that water yowes
could be developed in the Carolinas; and
gradually getting rid of his interests in the
tobacco industry, he turned all of his atten-
tions to the development of this new project
which later became the Southern Power
Company. This company supplies light and
power for the two Carolinas, besides sending
much current into neighboring.states. It is

(Continued on page 8)

Brilliant English Poet
And Novelist Lectures
Before Large Audience

John Cowper Powys of Cambridge
England Addresses Students

UNUSUAL SPEAKER

List of Ten Best Books in Literature
Offered by Noted Scholar

brilliant
lectured

John Cowper English
novelist, poet and last
Monday evening in Shearer Hall on “The
Ten Best Books.” Mr. Powys was formerly
a staff lecturer for the extension Societies of
Oxford and Cambridge Universities. In ad-
dition to his work on the lecture platform,
he is the author of a number of very
cessful novels and books dealing with psycho-

Powys,

essayist,

Ssuc-

analysis and literature.

The speaker was introduced by Prot. E. J.
Erwin, of the English department.
sor Erwin spoke of Mr. Powys as an am-
bassador from Great Britain to this country,
and stated that “the who who is to talk to
us tonight is more than a lecturer, he is’ a
graduate of one of the great universities of
the world, a poet and a great man in the
field of literature that he represents.”

Before Jaunching into the heart of his
talk, Mr. Powys stated that he wanted every
one to understand how hard it was for one
to select the ten best books of the world,
“Hirse one has to lay down certain rules and

Protes-

standards so as to narrow the field,” he said.
"The first of these restrictions is that we
works that might be
second, the

must consider only
classed as complete volumes ;
product must be a work of art.”

The ten best books as selected by Mr.
Powys were: “The Psalins.” by David,
King «of Isracl; “The Wiad,” by Homer,
Promethius Bound; The Odes of Horace;
Dante's “Infterno;” “Don Quixote,” by Cer-
vantes; “Paradise Lost,” by John Milton;
“King Lear,” by Sharkespeare; Goethe's
Faust; and “The Idiot,” by Theodore Dos-
toinevsky.

Mr. Powys prefaced his talk by comment-

(Continued on page 3)

Orphanage Head Speaker
at “Y” Vesper Services

Mr. C. B. Johnson of Barium
Springs Orphanage Talks to
Davidson Students

Mr. C, B. Johnston, of
Barium Springs Orphanage, one time super-
intendent of the Birmingham Steel Company,
and all-round business man, was the speaker
at the “Y" Vespers last Sunday night. With
enthusiasm Mr. Johnston
spoke simply and earnestly, his speech spark-
ling with business-man common sense.

superintendent

as his subject,

As his text the speaker chose the thought
set forth in Revelation 3:15-16, “I would
thou wert cold or hot. So then because thou
art lukewarm, and neither cold nor hot, I will
spue thee out of my mouth’—the weakness
of mediocrity. He said he chose this topic
because he knew there was not a more
preached to group of men in the world than
the student body of Davidson. Because of
thist fact he feared that a great number of
the men at Davidson might have assumed the
“side line attitude” towards life.

“Safety first,” he said, “has become the
motto of men everywhere, but we must take
this attitude out of our relations with God
and our work, if we would truly know Him
and achieve the most in our activities.

“Enthusiasm would be my theme if I
were to choose one.” Enthusiasm, that di-
vine attribute that enables one to rise above
one’s capacity. Mr. Johnston went on to
say that those men who haven't the strength
to tackle a problem themselves, and who
criticize those who do, have the side-line
viewpoint. “These,” he said, “are not willing

(Continued on page 5)
