6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 17, 1925

English Student Life
Will Be Described in
Lecture Monday Night

Dr. Harding and Mac Richards Will
Speak in Shearer Hall

The 1925-26 lecture program will begin
next Monday night with two of the most
interesting speakers in or aroundthis part of
the country, Dr. C. R. Harding and Mr. J.
McDowell Richards. Mr. Richards will have
as his subject, “Life at Oxford.” Mr. Rich-
ards has just completed two years’ work at
Oxford University, in England. He was a
Rhodes Scholar at this institution, being
chosen on account of his-excellent work here
at Davidson College, where he was gradu-
ated with the class of 1922, One of. the
most outstanding men in his class; he had this
great honor conferred upon him. ,Mr. Rich+
ards is the son of Dr. C. M. Richards, now
pastor of the Presbyterian Church in Da-
vidson.

The other speaker of-the evening will be
Dr. C. R. Harding, professor of Greek at
Davidson. Dr. Harding will tell of his ex-
tensive travels in Europe this summer, where

¢

ALWAYS A GOOD SHOW
ey No ee

THE VICTORY THEATRE

‘MOORESVILLE

ke

PROGRAMME

Wednesday and Thursday,
Sept. 16-17---Prairie Wife. Com-
edy: Should Husbands Be
- Watched ?

Friday and Saturday, Sept.
18-19---Siren of Seville, and a

good two-reel comedy.

Monday, Sept. 21---Garden
of Weeds. Pathe News.

. . Tuesday, Sept. 22---(West-
ern) Lightning Jack. Comedy.

om Turns Hero.

Wednesday and Thursday,
Sept. 23-24---He Who Gets
Slapped, a one-reel comedy.

Friday, Sept. 25---Birth of

the K. K. K.

Saturday, Sept. 26 --- The
Shock, and a two-reel comedy,

Tame Men and Wild Women.

he spent the entire three months, visiting
many places of historic interest. .This will
prove interesting to all of the students as well
as to the special students of Greek and An-
cient History. These two lectures will be
given Monday, September 21, at 7:30 p. m.
Through the help of Mr. J.P. Wiltiams;
formerly “Y” secretary at Davidson, and

versity, Mr. Cameron Beck has been secured
to lecture Monday night, October 5. Mr.
Beck is personal director of the New York
Stock Exchange, and is scheduled to lecture
in Asheville on October 7. Mr. Beck is a
keen minded and prosperous business man
and should be heard with great interest by

him. ;

John Cowper Powys, celebrated English
novelist, poct and essayist, will lecture on the
following Monday night, October 12, at 7:30
p. m.- Mr. Powys will confine his lecture to
“The Ten Best Books.” This should un-
doubtedly prove to be a literary gem as Mr.
Powys is one of the most renowned authors
ever to address a Davidson audience. The
committee on lectures are to be congratulated
on securing such a man of his type to: speak
here. :
All these lectures will ‘be free of charge
and will be given in the auditorium of Shear-
er Hall. Everyone is cordially invited to
hear all of these fine lectures.
make, chairman of the faculty committee on
lectures, announces that lectures of this type
and men of this caliber will be secured to
address the Davidson audiences throughout
the year,

Wildcat Football Squad

Faces Strenuous Season

More Than a Half of Games Will be
Played on Richardson Field

On Saturday evening, September 19, the
North Carolina football schedule will be
officially opened by the Davidson-Elon game
on Richardson Field. As a starter off for
their 1925 season the Wildcats could find no
more worthier ‘a foe than the Flon Chris-
tians,

Closely following the Elonites will come a
game with Wofford, in Davidson, and then
one with Wake Forest, in Charlotte. ‘Uhere
is no need to enumerate the seeds of that
scrappy little team from Wofford, enough is
said when the score of ’24 is read, Davidson
7, Wofford 0. As for the football class of
the season, this will be seen in the Queen
City when our men meet the North Carolina
24 champions, Wake Forest.

Guilford at Davidson, and P. C. at Rock
Hill, S. C,, brings the Wildcats to the half-
way mark of their schedule. After this date,
October 17, the Wildcats will start on the
latter and more difficult part of their cal-
endar, Furman University on October 24,
place undecided, and N. C. State on David-
son soil the following Saturday, will com-
plete a busy fortnight. No doubt all upper-
classmen will remember that frantic hour
spent.at the station last fall when finally t!»
news came trickling over the wires ‘hat the
Wildcats had held the heavy State team to a
10-10 score.

An old rival, who has been missing on the
Davidson card for several seasons, reappears
this season in the form of the Hampden-
Sidney Tigers. This clash falls on Noyem-
ber 14th, but the site has yet to be decided
on,

The two contests that close the season are
to test the mettle of the Wildcats to the

100% SANITARY METHODS

Are followed in this shop---courtesy, quick service and

prices that are fair

DEAL’S BARBER SHOP
Mooresville, N. C.

WHEN IN MOORESVILLE

MAKE GOODMAN'S ~

YOUR HEADQUARTERS

who is now connected with the School of |
Business Administration of New York Uni- |

Dr. Shew-

|Davidson Graduate Is
Winner of Prize For
Best Essay in South

Archie Ray Wins for Best Essay on
Interracial Co-operation

| A. C. Ray, of Pittsboro, N. C., former
| student in Davidson College, has been award-
|ed one of the prizes offered by the Commis-
sion on Interracial Co-operation for the
three best papers on race relations submitted
in a contest open to the students of all South-
/ern colleges.

livered as an oration at Davidson. The other
prize winners were Miss Dorothy Fahs, of

a paper on “The Southern White College and

quitt, of the University of Georgia, who
wrote on “Race Relations in the South.”
There were 50 entries in the contest, rep-
resenting more than 30 of the leading insti-
|tutions in 12 states. Varous phases of race
|relations were treated, among them educa-
| tion, economic status, Negro achievement,
the Negro church, interracial co-operation,
jand the lynching evil.

|

| college periodicals.
- Officials of the Interracial Commission ex-

press themselves as greatly pleased with the, Stuart, treasurer; H. Powell, first super-
results and are planning to conduct a similar | Visor; G. Smith, second supervistor.

contest this year, full announcements of

| which are promised in a few days.

ROBINSON’S CIRCUS COMING
| TO CHARLOTTE
| aes es
| The earth’s oldest circus, John Robin-
son’s will soon be in our midst, as the
billboards throught the country proclaim

Charlotte for afternoon and night per-
formances on Monday, September 28th.
Hundreds of circus lovers of this com-
munity are making plans to attend the
circus that day, as the merit and super-
iority of John Robinson’s Circue is well
known here.

“The Clash of Color” was the '

; % | subject of Mr. Ray's paper, which was de-|
the ‘éntire audience fortunate enough to hear | 4 ih Del

Randolph Macon Woman's College, Va., with |
the South's Race Problem,” and C. B. Col-,

| tributed three intercollegiate debaters to
' the college, D. B. Wharton, L. D. Whar-

All the papers sub-,
| mitted were of a high order and many had |
been delivered as orations or published in}

in loud and lurid colors, its coming to|

John Robinson comes this year with | terest of the freshmen was begun by

Literary Societies

Metropolitan

The Metrophilian Literary Society will
hold its first meeting Tuesday evening
at 7:15. An interesting beginning is plan- |
ned for the first meeting although no
definite program has been arranged. A
canvass of each dormitory has been made
giving a cordial invitation to all fresh-
men with the hope that a great number
will respond and be present at the meet-
ing Tuesday night. |

A week from Tuesday night will be
initiation night at the society, at which
time the incoming freshmen will become
full members of the society. It is be-
lieved by the society that at least 25 men |
will be present. A feed is also planned |
for that night.

Besides winning several other great
,honors last year the Metrophilian con-

ton, and R. B. Parker. Two of these men
are returning this year and there are sev-
eral other good men who have not as
yet made a place on the debating team.
The officers for the society for this
year are as follows: Roland Parker, pres-
ident; Don Wharton, vice-president;
Boyce Martin, secretary; Sonny Pullen,
critic; Bill Covington, second critic; Don

Eumanean

The first meeting of the Eumanean
Literary “Society was held last Friday
night, for the express purpose of discus-
sing plans for securing the interest of
freshmen. Thursday night was decided
to be the initiation night. There was no
meeting planned but a feed will be given.
At the Friday night meeting R. A. Mil-
ler was elected as secretary in place of
R. A. Duke who failed to return this
year. The following are the other offi-
cers forthe year: Tom Barr, president;
Gordon .McCutcheon, vice-president; W.
Z. Lynch, treas. |
Philanthropic

A new movement for attaining the in-

an entirely new performance from the | this literary society this summer, a few
opening of the gorgeous spectacle, “Peter | weeks before the opening of school, let-
Pan in Animal Land” to the sensational | t¢rs were sent to all the freshmen by the
and thrilling. finishing numbers. Europe | Phi president, Ben Ratchford, urging
and the orient were sacked for novelties | them to take an interest in all the lit-
and features by representatives of the|¢™ary society work on the hill and par-
circus last winter, and the foremost wild | ticularly the Phi society. Results are al-
animal acts of the universe were pur-|'¢ady apparent for many freshmen have
chased and added to the Robinson's | Siven in their names as desiring to be-
double menagerie. As for clowns, fifty | Come members ofthe Phi society.

of the funniest and most foolish fellows | Pandeinic

ever turned loose will cavort in the saw- ‘The first meeting will consist only of a
dust arena, /small program, the feed, and the initia-
‘tion of-the new men. The officers for |
this year are B. U. Ratchford, president ; |
| C. J. Davis, vice-president; M. A. Mor- |
|rison, secretary; D. M. Calhoun, treas- |
lurer; J. C. Barrington, first critic; B. W. |
Dickson, first supervisor; Ralph Glenn, |
| second supervisor.

CALENDAR

THURSDAY, SEPT. 17—
7:15 p. m.—Philanthropic and Eu-
menean Literary Societies.
FRIDAY, SEPT, 18—
| 7:00 p. m—Fresh Pep Meeting and
Parade.
SATURDAY, SEPT. 19—
3:00 p. m—Davidson

|
What |

|
waist measure?” |
Bohannon—“Oh, about as long as my

|left arm.”

|
|
| Clerk—“Yes sir; a lady’s belt.
|

vs. Elon,

|

Quite a number of the Davidson fac-
ulty traveled extensively during the past
summer. A number of the town-folk
felt the urge of the wanderlust so that
the population ofthe community was at
a low ebb for practically the entire sum-
mer,

FOR A GOOD JOB
SEE US

E. A. FRYE SHOE SHOP

Davidson, N. C,

Hand-Made

Cravats
Mee of pure silk Repp in
bright, colorful stripes,
characteristic of the collegi-

ate’s taste. They wear well
and hold their shape.

$1.50

See Red McComb at 312
West---he has ’em.

MELLON’S

Richardson Field. |
8:00 p. m—Moving Pictures. | :
SUNDAY, SEPT. 20— |
11:15 p. m.—C. E. Training Class. | NONE TOO SMALL
2:30 p. m.—Ministerial Band. |
| 6:15 p. m.—Vespers, Dr. A. S. John- $}
son, from Charlotte, speaker. |
MONDAY, SEPT, 21— |
| 7:00 p. m.—Court of Control Meet-
ing, Lecture in Shearer Hall.
TUESDAY, SEPT. 22 — |
|

.

7:15 p. m.—Metrophilian and Pan-
deinic Literary Societies.

| eeees

| R. A. DUNN, President

' Our co-eds say: “An ambition is a C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President

| good thing to have but you can’t run
| your fingers thru his hair.”

Capital, Surplus, Ete., Over $1,200,000.00

| fullest extent, the University of North Caro-
| lina will be played at Chapel Hill on Novem-

We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size

The Commercial National Bank

Charlotte, N. C.

NONE TOO LARGE

» STEWART Cashier and Trust Office
DOAR, Asst. Trust Officer

LW
J. B.
T.S.McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier

| ber 14 and the ancient rivals of Davidson,
| in the form of Duke University, will furnish
|meat for the famished Wildcats on Turkey
| Day.

| “The varsity schedule is as follows:

Sept. 19—Elon College at Davidson.

Sept. 26—Wofford College at Davidson.
Oct. 3—Wake Forest at Charlotte.

Oct. 10—Guilford at Davidson.

Oct. 17—P. C. at Rock Hill, S. C.

Oct. 24—Furman University (undecided).
Oct. 31—N. C. State at Davidson.

Nov. 7—Hampden-Sidney (undecided).
Nov. 14—Univ. of N. C. at Chapel Hill,
Nov. 26—Duke University at Davidson.

GET IT AT
MILLER DRUG COMPANY

MOORESVILLE, N. C..

WHERE ALL THE YOUNG PEOPLE MEET

