¥ 4. a wat

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 26, 1925

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

n Collegiat
Association

Member of South Press

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Cate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of ‘the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
eaived from an “unknown source will not be palate

CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH cscs ccccccance Editor-in- Chief
HAROLD D. BURK Business M

life. We praise*Him for His Mercies and
ask His blessing and guidance through an-
other year that would be dark without His
livine presence.

In this hurrying and scurrying, work-a-
day world of ours, we are prone to forget
the real significance that the day holds for
us. In the whirl of pleasures and labors, we
seek to amuse ourselves rather than to de-
liver thanks to Him, to whom thanks are
due. We find excitement in hunting, foot-
ball games and in groaning tables rather
than in simple thanks and heart-felt praise.

On this Thanksgiving day, in the year of
our Lord, one thousand, nine hundred,

twenty-five, let us return our humble thanks,

and praise to Him, who in the mercy of His
being has preserved us and made this land in
which we live a land of plenty and of joy.

EDITORIAL STAFF

W._H. BRANCH..........-----..------------Managing Editor
L. D. WHARTO Assistant Managing Editor
P. F. JONES...- -Assistant Managing Editor
Wes MILO Neigecocseccccsssacucccsenesseces Athletic Editor
R. B. PARKER. -Associate Editor
A. Y. BOWIE-. ---------=---------Associate Editor
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH- ---As te Editor
ES McMILL Humorous Editor
J. B. BB .-.-Alumni Editor
F. K. AeeR peuenes Editor

|
|

Business Manager
“Assistant Rusiness Manager
Assistant Business Manager
.---Circulation Manager
Supscription Manager
eabtuccu cones Assistant
-Service Department
Assistant

Reporters’ Club

G. M. aces Pres. J. F. HOLLINGSWORTH

Vv. S. OYLES. Vice-Pres. B. MARTIN

¢.C. MURCH ISON, Sec.-Tr. R. H. EER THEN

W. H. ALLISON J. P. McKNIGHT

H. M. AUSTIN J. E, MOORE

F. K. BEL’ E. K. REGE

Cc. L, BRAGAW H. L. SHELBY

D. M. CALHOUN J. B. HO MESON

W. T. COVINGTON J. B. BB

W. T. DAVIS J. G, WHARTON

E. L. DOUGLASS B. WILSON

F. T. FRANKLIN C.. WITHERS

W. S. GORDON W. S. WOODS
THANKSGIVING

Since that first bleak day in November,
when that sturdy and dauntless little band of
pilgrims knelt in humble thanksgiving to

the God who had guided their destines in
this new land, America has thrived and

prospered, :

The years have been many and long since
those inspired and loyal patriots sacrificed
their life’s blood to gain a foothold for free-
dom in the land that was then a howling
wilderness, beset with dangers and fears on
every hand.

During that interval of three hundred
year, this America of ours, this wonderful
land of opportunity and promise, has arisen
from an uncharted waste to a civilized coun-
try where every man enjoys the freedom
that is promised him in that great human
document, the constitution of the United
States, America’s greatness heralded
among nations; her leaders are recognized
among nations for their grasp upon interna-
tional problems and their perception into
the future where none have trod before.

This country holds a unique place in the
annals of those that have achieved. Not by
prowess of arms, although the might of the
Stars and Stripes has been felt in every cor-
ner of the globe, but in the arts of peace and
humanity, has the United States secured a
place in the affairs of the world that has
made her a leader among countries. In the
realms of science and of invention, in the
arts that have to do with the progress of
industry and commerce, in everything that
pertain to human welfare, our land has
blazed the way for others to follow.

The lot of man has been made happier
since the founding of this country by those
intrepid pilgrim fathers. Pain and suffer-
ing have been lessened ; humanitarian move-
ments have never been so favored as today.
Institutions of learning have prospered be-
yond the fond hopes of their promoters.
More and more attention is being paid to
the cultivation of the higher arts which im-
prove the aesthetic senses of man.

The past year has been filled with bless-
ings of manifold varieties. We have enjoy-
ed the goodness of God in the free air and
blue sky above; the golden sunshine that
gives to life its blessings, has also entered
our hearts to make them glad. We have
lived lives of freedom beneath the flag that
symbolizes the mightiest country in the
world today. We have seen the forces that
will, soner or later, bring about a fulfillment
of those high principles which Woodrow
Wilson laid down to a war-stricken world.

So, as Thanksgiving day comes once more
to us, let us realize that it is a day of praise
and thanksgiving in the fullest sense of the
word. It is a day set apart out of all the
days of the years, in which we glorify our
Father above, who gives us our light and our

1s

RESOLUTIONS
Davidson College,
Davidson, N. C.,
Nov. 20, 1925.
Greetings:

Whereas;

It has pleased Almighty God in His all-
wise Providence to remove from our midst
on the 13th of November, 1925 our beloved
friend and class-mate, Frank Reynolds
Hudson, Therefore,

Be It Resolved:

First: That the Senior Class of Davidson
College extends to his family and friends
their most heart-felt sympathy.

Second: That we do cherish and honor
his memory as a devoted Christian gentle-
man and that Davidson has lost an esteemed
and honored son.

Third: That we do deeply feel the loss of
one whose life was an example of Christian
devotion and fellowship, and that we bow
in: humble submission to Him who doeth all
things well.

Fourth: That a.copy of these resolutions
be sent to: The bereaved members of his
family, The Chattanooga Times, The Chat-
tanooga News, The Davidsonian, and be en-
tered on the records of the Senior Class.

Committee,
W. E. MILLER, Chairman.
C. E. HOUSTON.
E. A. O'NEAL.

THE SADNESS OF FAREWELL

When “College Ties” is sung Thursday
afternoon a sensation of profound sorrow
will choke every Senior as he realizes that
vnumber of the most gallant football heroes
‘ver to don the Red and Black uniform—
ind his own classmates—will have fought
their last grim battle for the Alma Mater.

And especially to these heroes themselves
vill the sadness be yreat; it means an end
of participation in the king of college sports.
In the future they can only watch the bat-
tling of the “thin Red line” from the side-
lines forced to restrain the old fight which
will inevitably rise within them, And none
the less sad will be this denouement because
they have covered themselves with glory
by forming the soul of the greatest Wildcat
machine in many years.

”

Short years have passed since we saw
them as striplings exhibit the fight which
has ever distinguished them. Today as stal-
wart men their strength is mightier but the
spirit is not nobler—it could not be.

There are six varsity men of ’26 who have
played their last. Laden with honor, we give
them great praise. Nor would we forget
the men who, for three hard years, strived
and failed to “place.” They too are real
Wildcats. To all these men who have sac-
rificed, without one complaint, high grades,
tempting foods, satisfying smokes, and oth-
er equally alluring pleasures—to these men
who have daily risked maiming for life
which means.a blighted career, or who have
dared death itself to win for old Davdison
we as Davidson men humbly offer hearts full
of praise and admiration. You have played
our game, too.

Nor may we forget that eighty-five other
Seniors are viewing their last grid game as
a body—that their sorrow is none the less
poignant, their loyalty none the less true
than that exemplified 1 in their fighting class-
mates “on the line.”

’*Tis\a farewell where sadness rules su-
preme. ’26, your grid day has faded in a
sunset of glory. Others must supplant you.
But your sons have done their part. You
have consecrated forever six heroes to the
noble galaxy of the Wildcats. Like men we
say to the old grid, “Farewell.”

R. B. P. (’26).

As Kin Hubbard would say, “th’ boys git
more fun out of this here campus football
than anything that’s happened since th’
barn burnt down.”

MEET MR. GRANGE!

Anyone who has been within hailing distance
of a newspaper during the progress of these past
few weeks will need no introduction to thephan-
tom flash from the ice-fields of Illinois, Harold
Grange, late of the University of Illinois, but now
of the Chicago Bears, Inc.

That meteoric flash of human lightning will
never again twinkle his tootsies to the tune of his
alma mater’s cheers and songs. For Red has de-
ferred his diploma until his offers and contracts
have expired. Until then, he will fondle the pig-
skin, the skin he loves to touch more than the
sheepskin,

Red few lessor: satellies plan to barn-
storm the country with a profession football team.
Instead of toting chunks of ice, he is going to
carry a bushel or more of laurel wreaths to en-
circle his brow every time he make a touchdown.
He’s got his proportion of the gate receipts all
figgered out to a nicety. Tex Rickard has noth-
ing on Red.

and a

One must confess something of a disappoint-
ment at this display of professionalism after such
a career at college where the game was entered
into for the love of the sport and nothing else.
They say that his father strenously objected to
this turn of events.

‘ Fotball has remained so long in the ranks of the
amateurs that it seems a shame for it to be com-
mercialized. It is true that many accusations have
been made the policy of colleges at making such .
a display of football, charging so much for tickets
and raising such a rookus in general. We have
all seen the good and many of the bad effects of
professionalism on baseball and boxing.

Give us an amateur contest every time. One
where the players carry on for the love of the
game and not for any pecuniary rewards. We
certainly hope that this movement of Mr. Grange
will not have any appreciable effect in commercial-
izing this sport that ranks supreme in the heart
of the collegian.

A GIFT OF ROSES

The Dartmouth, a daily newspaper published by
the University of that name, evidently decided
that Davidson was setting some sort of precedent
down in this section of the country. The whole
editorial page of a recent copy of that paper was
devoted to a discussion of Davidson, the knowl-
edge and acquaintance being had by means of
The Davidsonian.

An relating to ‘the policy toward
Freshman cheering was quoted in full, and nu-
merous excerpts were taken from the news col-
umns of the paper. The Dartmouth seemed to be
well impressed by our efforts here. A suggestion
was made that they their Fresh team the
“Greenies.”

editorial,

call

Such commendation is enough to gladden the
heart of any weary editor. We are now scanning
the pages of the New York Times in an effort to
see just when they will begin making paragons of
our journalistic efforts.

“Lend me your ears,” said fond mother as
she grabbed the rag and the soap.

We are happy that the Junior class has
decided to use the title of Sanity Rare
again, as a name for their humorous mag-
azine which they will publish next Junior
Speaking. Who knows but that this will be

the fore-runner of a regular humorous pub-
lication for Davidson?

Our idea of a conservative gent is the bird
who broke out a front tooth so he could use
a straw better.

With Christmas only a month off, every-
thing will be quiet around the campus ex-
cept the shooting of fire-crackers, torpedoes
and students.

Minor Chords

IN VAIN
A short twelve-month-ago you ruled my heart;
Your frowns, your scorn, disdain and pity clear,
Were powerless to cause me to depart.
It seems no more I held my manhood dear,
For always, ever, did my thoughts return
To wait on you!

All vain! All vain! Again repulse was mine.
You sat, you smiled, you did not see my eyes—
How could my hungry heart its need define?
Why, words were poor in pushing such emprise;
There is no way to show the aching hurt

Of heart denied!

With time came thought,
calm amain:

True mate with me you never could have been,
Because to stoop to me you would not deign.
Thus, I should spend my days in deep chagrin,
That she whom I had chosen, chose not me,

But pitied me!

with thought came

—F. T. F.

! tell you how.

“‘lutely

Ole Mister Wilecat is mighty proud these days.
He can see through the crack of his cage, the new
home that is being built for his royal occupancy.
Charlie reports that the cat demurred the other
day concerning the fact that no tile floors and
bath was to be installed in the cage.

A news item says that a convict escaped from
prison not long ago in the dress of a girl. Well,
if the guards don’t get him, pneumonia will.

A hick town is one where the prominent citizen
wears galluses to have a place to rest his thumbs.

Do you want to bea

SUCCESS?

Do you want to be known as a two-fisted, red-
blooded, double-jointed HE-MAN? One that
steps right up and calls everybody SPEEDY?
Are YOU game? Throw off your shackles of dis-
content. Away with the fetters of bondage.

YOU
Are The Man, YOU!

Don't let another precious moment go by before
you read every burning word of this message that
s destined to open new avenues and wealth to
you. Do you want. to be a second Rockefeller,
or a Henry Ford? Do you want to have your
name written in gilt letters on all the coal-oil cans
and the road-lice in the country?

YOU CAN DO IT!

Our new 376 page book, hot off the press will
This marvelous masterpiece will go
down as the great creation of this great age. It
will be a boon for the man who has waited in vain
to hear old Opportunity tapping on the door of
his apartment.

Dr. J. Hezekiah Goflunk, the distinguished au-
thor, is the world’s greatest authority on being a
success. He has traversed the world over to seek
new and different rules which he has incorporated
in this cataclysmic, epochal, and transcendental
book. Dr. Goflunk has been educated in the
greatest American and Patagonian Universities.
He has more degrees than a Fahrenheit ther-
mometer. An what’s more—he knows his OATS.
Do you get that? HE KNOWS HIS OATES!

But the best of it all is that this bok is abso-
FREE. We know you think us moronic
to make such an offer but ‘we care not for money,
only for the advancement of humanity.

MR. DOWN-AND-OUT, YOU CAN BE A
SUCCESS!

Never say DIE. Mr. Hank Gooflewhitz, of Crab-
tree, Iowa, writes us and says that due to this
wonderful book, he become a new man almost
overnight. Even while he was taking the book
home from the post-office, he bought an oil well
for five dollars which he later sold for million
cash and a second-hand Ford.

ARE YOU DISCOURAGED?

Then read this book on SUCCESS. If you are
a man_and are unable to face your daily tasks,
you, by all means need this work of art. If you
are a woman and cannot do your house-work,
leave Lydia and follow us. If you are a student
and you get fired upon in all your classes, if you
have the last trouble with your work, just step
right up and get one of our free books, and YOU
CAN DO IT. You can be a SUCCESS!

Do you have trouble in remembering names
and faces? Would you know Mr. Addison Sims,
of Seattle, if he were to step right up and call you
SPEEDY? Can you make a hole in one on the
golf course every week or two? Are you per-
fectly at home when you spill the gravy in the lap

| of your best girl when you take her to the Greek

cafe for dinner? ARE YOU?

If you cannot, do all these things, you need to
have our book on SUCCESS.

Are you a scrawny weakling with a chest as
flat as a Scotchman’s contribution envelope? Are
your legs as spindly as a Louis XIV chair? Is
that the insidious thing about it? Do your best
friends hate to mention it to you? You are the
ONE that needs the advice and comfort of our
BOOK. You can be a superman in every sense
of the word.

This book is the sensation of the ages. You can
fhave a copy free by asking us. Merely~send us
$3.98, a paltry sum to be sure, to help pay the
expenses of packing and postage.

DON’T WAIT. REMEMBER WHERE
THERE’S A WILL, THERE'S HEIRS!
WRITE at once to—
THE SKINNUM QUICK CO.
1313 Creek Ave. Bandit, Texas
—C. F. S.
