THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 9, 1925

=

EAT
CAROLINA

EAT
CAROLINA

| College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks

Nine Tours State and

For unless they get a better cye on the
ball, both as to fielding and batting, the sea-
son may rollick along with a woeful account-
ing at the end of the season.

South Carolina Track |

Meet on Saturday Week

Wildcats Visit Columbia to Roll

awarded to competitors in this

GREAT WORD-BUILDING CONTEST

Send stamp for circular and rules. Address.
Sheffield Laboratories, Dept. 12, Aurora, Illinois.

SEEseaen ol JUNIOR SPEAKING PLANS
c l c { { BER GLANCE OVER THIS | SPORTOGRAPHS VARSITY BASEBALL (Continued from page 1)
| . . .
tr presente | By Ernest Milton : Le : A lovely humorous publication, bearing
en a a V4 erla AB’ H_ PCT. | y April 9—N. C. State at Raleigh. the very significant title Sanity Rare, will be
; | }g April 10—Wake Forest at Wake distributed at the carnival in the gymnasium;
“On the Square”’ Vance ~--------=--- a BIE tie representatives of Davidson have 10 : : BA
CHAT fordss sence. 14 5 343 ne “representatives Ol avidson) have Forest. and reports from the staff of this unique
Shin ee 10 3 300 $ contests within one week. Somebody is g0-)§ Ayri1 13—-Carolina at Salisbury. magazine indicate that it will surpass any
Davis 7 2 296 $| ing to win and somebody is going to lose—| April 16—Wofford here similar publication ever attempted by Da-
F Alford eae So 2 250 | or maybe there will be a tie in some cases. e ‘ vidson students. Fred Smith and C. F,
Best Place to Eat Covington -.------- ig. 33 250 | VARSITY TENNIS Monk are editing the magazine, and have
WiGlitesucesinaboaas 13 3 231 | But we want Davidson to win. There April 9—Clemson here. been hard 7 vee for many weeks. The
: Iie to have been a let-up in wins since magazine wi > featured by an abundance
Good Orchestra Wittifierossssessuss 9 2 .222 ; Seems to have a P een : ;
Woodham --------- 15 3 ..200 $|baskethall season. We'll call it a temporary | FRESH BASEBALL of attractive illustrations, humorous stories,
H hth) oe 11 0 000 $/slump, unless later actions prove us to be|$ April 10—Rockingham High here. anecdotes, and laughter-provoking poetry.
H Outi 4 0 000 $| wrong. \$ April 11—Duke Fresh here. The. guests of the various. fraternities will
H Kimbrough 2 0 000 | April 13—Raeford at Raeford. begin to reach Davidson on Friday after-
LES ¢: Satake 23 tect tnaliand — bt Recetas atand L ' | . ‘ . . : ‘ bees 4
Corner Trade and Tryon alltee Kugler =2--2.-_ 2 0 000 Losing the first four baseball games is ale “\D''' 14 wactord at Ractord. noon and will continue to arrive throughout
sax H McConnell ~------- 2 0 .000 Wantirre Hinuutig iat Baseball is ; the week-end.
Central Hotel Building {]/3 Hampton _...____. ee Hie SUHTMGEA Tg Gant ad _ VARSITY TRACK —
H e i 1 0 000 of an art, and the Oca can't a Ways rely April 18—-U. of S .C., at Coliimbia. YOU MAY. WIN $1,500
H SUEUTOTS cscs d upon that Wildcat fighting spirit to win the
7] Eas pee a If you are able to make the most words out ot
a s game, the letters contained in the words “TOILET
on rrrrrT 7 Wetiilky | ose occes 127/32) (252 sheet ey DE total of $3,000 IN CASH
H prizes wi ue

Eversharp Pencils Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens

Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

[esasssees:

(Iti rrr rrr rrr rrr rrr rrr irr |

The TATE-
BROWN CO.
CLOTHIERS

““COLLEGE!””

That's what the new Society

Brand Boulevard says to you

College clothes are not
Col-
lege men wear what they
like and if Fifth Avenue

doesn’t like it, so much

like other clothes.

the worse for Fifth Ave-
nue. Society Brand make
clothes for college men.
That’s why they make
the best.

Dobbs Hats
French, Shriner

fund Urner Oxfords

Manhattan Shirts

c=

Meets Carolina Monday

State and Wake Forest Met on First
Day of Holidays, at Salisbury
Easter

The baseball team will leave Wednesday
for a trip through the castern part of the
state in an attempt to break the losing streak
that has been hanging over them this season.

The first game will be in Raleigh against
N. C. State, on Thursday afternoon. State
beat Duke by a small margin, who in turn
beat Elon 16-0, so a real scrap may be ex-
pected there.

On Friday the team journeys down to
meet Wake Forest on their home diamond.
Wake Forest is cager to avenge themselves
of the defeat handed them by the Wildcats
in basketball and are primed to give the Da-
vidson team one of the hardest scraps of the
trip. Saturday the team will return home,
where they will rest until Monday, when
they will meet Carolina in Salisbury.
promises to be one of the best games of the
season as the Wildcats may always be count-
ed on to put up their best against the Tar-
heels.

After the Carolina game the team will take |
a two-day rest until the 16th, when they will |

play the Wofford nine here. The team has
been hard at work since the Elon game
smoothing out the rough spots, finding the
weak ones and strengthening the team
throughout.

Laird, Ogden and Hampton have been
pitching real ball. Wrenn and Black may be
relied upon to handle the other end of the
battery. In the infield Woodham is handling
first in his capable way and at the hot cor-
ner Covington is playing his regular game of
first-class ball. The other infield positions
are being fought out between S. Alford, Kim-
brough, Simpson and Kugler.
field Vance, Wells and Davis are showing up
much better.

The team that takes the field Friday
against State will be practically the same
team that has been representing Davidson,

but it will be a much strengthened team, |

much better than heretofore, and the scores
should be different from those handed in
hitherto. :

The trip will be made in a large Safety
Coach and 15 men will make the trip, in-
cluding the manager and coach. The follow-
ing men will probably be taken: Wells,
Vance, Davis, McConnelt, outfielders; Cov-
ington, Simpson, Kimbrough, © Woodham,
Kugler, S. Alford, infielders; Oden, Hamp-

ton, Laird, pitchers; Wrenn, Black, catchers. |

A delightful evening was spent at the

| home of Mrs. Wilson MacConnell at an
‘entertainment in honor of Mrs. Fulton.

“Equipment for Every Sport”

Reach °

Spalding :

: Wright & Ditson

Goldsmith Goods

Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co. :
18 East Trade Street

In the out- |

Twenty-four runs, 32 hits and 28 errors is
the record so far. We're hitting ‘em high in
all lines at first, but we're optimistic enough
to believe that this will not continue, at least
in some channels.

Frank Alford will be out on the diamond
again, and will be ready for the Easter Mon-
day game. We're glad of that.’

Even though Harry Vance has made some
miscues *out in the field, he has certainly made
atonement for part of them by his slamming
the ball out. Nine hits out of 16 attempts,
with an average of 563. Not so bad, Harry.

The team's average is .252.

State last Saturday put a crimp into
Duke's state championship aspirations, it
seems. The Techmen defeated the Meth-

odists, 5 to 4.

This |

However, three of State’s men who had
been out of the game for the first of the
|‘season were in. Red Johnson, Dutch Hol-
land and Gladstone are going to strengthen
Stat’s chances considerably for State honors.

But Guilford nosed State out, 2 to 1, Elon
| also beat Davidson, 6 to 2.

But the Wildcats easily defeated Wofford,
| 89 to 37, in the track meet here Saturday.
| At the same time State was again displaying
| her strength by defeating the strong V. M. 1.
| track men, 68 to 58, .

|

| State must have an unusually good team
to do that, since the Cadets have some good
/men along this line.

When you read this it will have been de-
cided whether Coach Monk, Coach Tex and
| Coach Rawson will be back
/next year,

at Davidson

A great deal depends upon Davidson's ath-
letics, whichever way their decision goes.
| Here’s hoping it will be in the affirmative.
| They have done a great work in the past two

years in organizing Davidson's athletics, and
not to return would perhaps undo their ac-
complishments.

Then they are good coaches, too, and the
| boys like them. The latter means lots to a
coach, so we are told.

Wonder what Lenoir is going to do this
year in the way of a baseball team. Last
year they created a sensation over the state
| when they became near-state champions.

The Freshmen open their season Friday
| with Rockingham High, which is said to
have one of the best high school outfits in the
| state. The following day they meet the
| Duke Fresh,

What they have in the way of material
| for next year’s team can be looked over then.
| Preliminary contests against Opposition that
wasn't so strong, shows some good hurling
material, and we. need that.

| Don't forget that it wasn’t Oden’s fault
that we didn’t win the Elon game. His pitch-
ing was excellent.

Gamecock Crew—Closely
Matched

Oo Saturday, April 18, Manager Patton
will escort Captain Gracey’s team down to

Columbia to give the track squad of the |
It is |

University of South Carolina a scrap.
understood that South Carolina track

are expecting to carry off the laurels with a |
good margin, but according to comparative |
results, if their expectations become a realiza- |

tion, that margin will be a narrow one.
vidson downed Wofford 87-39.

men

Da-

The team

suffered the same penalty before the team

from South Carolina.

The Wildcats will be in much better shape
by. the eleventh than they were last Sat-

urday.
of the coming contest.

Brand will be in shape for the dashes
Calhoun’s ankle is |

rapidly improving from an injury incurred in

practice last week.

He is expected to ex-

ceed even his mark in the high jump of the
last two weeks in which he took respectively

‘first place and a tie for first. Captain Gracey

will also be in good shape by the coming

meet.

There is no doubt, however, that, the Wild-

cats will have a big job on their hands.
South Carolina team is a strong one,
doubtless expect some improvements
within the next two weeks.

NEW FRATERNITY FOUNDED

(Continued from page 1)

men will hold their offices for the remainder

of the school year.

The
and
also

According to the members of the club
they intend to keep it actively at work in
building up interest and attainment in the

Davidson biological department.

Bi-monthly

meetings are held at which timely topics are
discussed and the business of the club is

transacted.

An outstanding feature in con-

nection with the founding of this new scien-
tifice club is the fact that the members claim
it was gotten up entirely through student
initiative and the faculty members were later

admitted to membership,

a

1 nd

C AS For Dental Gold, Plat-

inum, Silver, Diamonds,

magneto. points, false teeth, jewelry, any

valuables. Mail today. Cash by return

|] mail.
|

Hoke S. & R. Co., Otsego, Mich.

NEUMONIA

Always call a physician.
Until his arrival use
| “emergency” treatment
with Vicks. This does not
interfere with anything
he may prescribe.

ICKS

VarpoRus

Over 17 Million Jare Used Yearly

|
|
i

}
For High Class

PRINTING

of every description

‘‘Jam-Up”’

SERVICE

see
C. M. S. McIlwaine

14 Ga.

wt

Agent for

Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.

hos

All kinds of accessory clothing
shown every Friday in the lobby
of West Dormitory by

Joe Harrison Clothing Company
APPLEBY AND MILTON, Mgrs.

Wholesale

Whe i You Need Candy
See Us

26.28 S. College St
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

