THE DAVIDSONIAN,

FEBRUARY 19, 1925

It will probably be of interest to the
REUNION CLASS OF ’24 many friends of Rev. W. A. Black, who
To the Men of the Class of 1924
Greetings : from Davidson College, all of whom are
making names for themselves in their
respective fields of endeavor. The Da-
vidsonian herewith gives a short account
of the accomplishments of each son,

The commencement of the class
of 1925 is not far distant, and, as it
is the custom for a graduating
class to hold its first reunion one : ;
year following its graduation, I do ue he left Davidson,
SummonutheninennotthenGiaeeree teil F. L. Black the oldest boy, was grad-
1924 to present themselves on the j uated from Davidson in 1904. He prac-
campus of Davidson College, June | ticed law for a number of years in Char-
first to June fifth, for their first
reunion,

lout, he went to Mexico with the Persh-

ing expedition, and afterward went over-
Randolph Jones, Jr. | seas with the 20th division with the rank
lof captain in the 119th infantry. He

ALUMNI NOTES

‘1o—Emmett G. Routh is now teaching
at Columbia University, New York City. standing U.S. Army, which he accepted

'23—Guy Weeks is now working at and now holds. He is now stationed at
Harrisburg, Va. : ! Post No. 9, Boston, Mass.

‘24—Dr. Fitch, president of Hangchow } Also in the class of ’04 was the second
College, reports that Warren Cox is boy, Clarence Linwood. He _ took his
making a fine impression at the college A.M. upon graduation and accepted a
and is doing good work among the stu- position as assistant to the state chemist
dents. lin Raleigh.

occupation, and after he returned to

COLOR!

---AND PLENTY OF IT

That’s what you'll
find in the new spring
furnishings.

SHIRTS
NECKWEAR
SOCKS

Better drop in and
Stock up; you'll find it
easy to pick ’em.

MELLON’S

Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.

SODA : CIGARS
PARKER COLLEGE FOUNTIN PENS

AND

A SERVICE THAT CARRIES THE ENTHUSIASM
OF A CLASS RUSH

Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.

201 North Tryon St.

NONE T00 SMALL NONE TOO LARGE

We Want Yur Account Regardless of Its Size

The Commercial National Bank

Charlotte, N. C.

R. A. DUNN, President IW. STEWART Cashier and Trust Office é
a 4 ¥.. JOHNSTON, Vice-President J. B. DOAR, Asst. Trust Officer ee
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President

T.S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier

Capital, Surplus, Ete., Over $1,200,000.00

»

is conducting the revival here this week, |
to know that he has four sons graduated |

|lotte, and when border hostilities broke |

stayed in Germany with the army of |

America he was offered a place in the |

Next he was assistant in|

| the assayors office at Charlotte. From
this position Mr. Black went to Yale
where he took his degree in chemistry,
and was then placed in charge of the |
U.S. Bureau of Chemistry. He later ac- |
cepted a position as head of the Pills- |
City, where he has the same work today |

om , |
whole also engaging in research Work. |

of 1906. and took his A.M. in 1907. He |
first accepted work teaching in South |
Carolina, where he became principal and, |
then, rose to superintendent. He dater
jaccepted a position at Greenwood, S. C.,
| where he is superintendent of the public
‘schools and now something over
4,000 pupils in the different schools.

The youngest son, A. F. Black, got his
degree from Davidson in 1910, and was |
for‘a number of years seeretary of the |
Manufacturer's Lumber Association, of
Charlotte, which place he resigned at the |
outbreak of the war and went to Ogle-
thorpe Military Training School, where
jhe received a commission as a Lieute-

has

nant and remained in service on the Mex- |

ican border till the close of the war. He |
then accepted a position as travgling |
salesman for the Du Pont Company of
Wilmington, Del. after being promoted
several times, he was placed in charge of
the company’s offices at Columbus, Ga.
where he is now located and has in his
charge the in the
| states of Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi,
hand Louisiana.

company’s business

Alumni on the Hill

David C. Shaw, '21; Doe Donaldson,
"21; A. D. Cromartie, '24; Wallace More,
"23; Paul Story, ’24; W. S. Buehanan, weRy
J. R. Morrison, ex-'27.

Marriage |

The marriage of Miss Maude Eliza-
jbeth Stone, of Spartanburg, S. C., to R.!
|W. Porter, ‘17, was recently announecd.

Deaths ‘
| ‘78—Rev. Dr. David Irvin Craig, of
| Reidsville, prominent Presbyterian min-
jister, theologian, historian and author, |
| died at his home at 7:30 o'clock, Febru-
jary oth, following an illness of five days
with pneumonia.

Dr. Craig was one of the leading Pres-
byterian ministers of North Carolina and
the Southern Presbyterian Church. He
had been in fair health until five days
hefore his death, although he had re-
signed his pastorate of the Reidsville
Presbyterian Church three-and a_ half
years ago, when he was elected pastor
emeritus, and has since been devoting
his time to historical writings.

Now 76 years old, Dr. Craig had been
active pastor for 43 years. For prob-
ably 40 years Dr. Craig was stated clerk
of the Orange Presbytery, and for 25
years had been stated clerk of the Synod
of North Carolina. He was one of the
organizers of Barium Springs Orphan-
age; for many years a trustee of David-
son College, and a trustee of Union The-
ological Seminary. '

Surviving Dr. Craig are two sons and
two daughters, Mrs. S. M. Purcell, of
Salisbury; I. M. Craig, of Wilmington;
Rev. Carl B. Craig, of Laurinburg, N. C.,
and Miss Louise B. Craig, of Reidsville.
One brother, I. P. Craig, and three sis-
ters, all of Orange County, also survive.

*88—Rev. J. A. Harris, born October
6, 1861, died November 8, 1924. Just af-
ter completing his work in the Union
Theological Seminary, he accepted a
pastorate in Rowan County, N. C., one
of the oldest churches in North Carolina.
He volunteered for Foreign Mission
work, but was rejected for physical
reasons, and thus he went into the depths
of Home Mission work in the mountains
of North Carolina. :

Beng diy wnusual business man he be-
began to save, and invest part of his sal-
ary each month, and at his death left
his entire accumulation to the Foreign
Mission Committee, for work in Africa,
a net amount of $20,000; which will rep-
resent him in the field denied him.

bury Testing Laboratories in New York |}

Change of Address
Rey. J. R. Hay from Brevard, N. C., to
Clover, S. C.

NICE CROWN OF MEN

(Continued from page 1)
query chosen for this year is, Resolved: That
the North Carolina Legislature should ratify

W. E. Black was graduated in the class jthe Port Terminals and Water Transporta-

tion Bill. All of the affirmative teams stay
at home, the traveling being left to the nega-
tive debaters. Our negative team shows its
skill at Chapel Hill, with Wake Forest's
Negative visiting the Hill.

A. Y. Bowie, in announcing the names who
have already signified their intention of try-
ing out for the team, set next Saturday, Feb-
ruary 21, as the closing date for the entries.
Among those who are to attempt to win a
place on this much coveted team are: Leo
Pritchard, Julien Lake, Rod McRae, Mal-
colm Murchison, Frank Ebey, W. T. Lingle,
Harry Patterson, John P. MeKnight, Mal-

jcolm Lockhart, H. T. Powell, Wallace Brad-

ford, Boyce Martin, P. J. Garrison and Cald-
well Withers.

The preliminaries for this mateh are to be
held March 5, with the actual debate oceur-
ing April 6.

DR. SWAN
(Continued from page 1)

mals in which there was yet life. Many of

these pictures were labelled, the object of
which was to give to the audience a more
complete vocabulary of hygienic terms and
to replace such terms already possessed by a
better and more correct one.

Major Swan, as he is known at West
Point, where he was stationed for several
years with the Medical Corps, is one of the
leading physicians of New York City. He
owns and operates the largest boys’ camp in
New England, the Pine Island Camp for
Boys. At that place several Davidson  stu-
dents have in the past served as councilors,
It is one of the highest class camps in the
country, ideally situated and well developed.

Dr. Swan, under the American Social Hy-
giene Association, has been through most of
the larger universities of the South. Routed
by the Y. M. C. A., he was especially sent
to Davidson College.

On Sunday, Harry Price went to Mor-

ganton, and in the Methodist Church of

that city conducted a meeting for the
lyoung men. Mr. Grady Leonard, the
| Boys’ Work Sceretary of the Y. M. C.
}A. in the western district, is doing splen-
did work in this community, and a great~
deal of progress is being inade.

Hayden Hollingsworth spoke Sunday
fevening at the Caldwell Memorial
|Chureh, His talk was of particular in-
Heist to young people, but also contain-

junder the microscope and dealing with ani-! ed many excellent thoughts for older

I persons. This service was well-attended.

EAT AT

THE ASTOR LUNCH

SERVICE

THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N.C.

SUNDAY

4:00 o'clock of the afternoon
the most dangerous hour
in America

Are you, too, fully prepared? Watch future issues
for the answer

McAlister Carson, Manager (13)

Charlotte. N. C.

qh

CHAR

Special Values

ae

BELK BROS.

Headquarters For

Young Men’s College Suits

Wide Bottom Pants

In one or two piece suits at $25.00 to $29.50

The New Style Bell: Bottom Pants

-In Light, Medium and Dark Shades at.$4.95 and $6.95 ..
Trade With Us and Save Money

LOTTE

Being Offered in

