m

a day to play State on!

6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 12, 1925

Initiation Brings Great

Through Strenuous Season— .
Alumni Help

The news was spread last week that
there was a great day “a-coming,” and
to the men who have in the past year
made your,coveted “D” in some branch
of athletics, that day came Saturday!
night when fifteen men were initiated in-
to the D Club. Of the ‘sixteen, four
made their letter in basketball, five in
football, three in wrestling, one in tennis
two in track and one in baseball. The
men making their letters in the year
1923-24 in basketball were: Spec McCon-

nell, Boggs, Staley, Laird; in football:
Summers, Baker, Black, Vance, Wells,
Laird; in wrestling: Patterson, N. G.,
Cox, L. P., Cox, W. D.; tennis, Trotter;
baseball: Simpson; track: Williford An-
derson,

On next Saturday night all the men

making their letter in football last fall,
together with this year’s baskeball team:
and managers in baseball, basketball,
track and football will be initiated. The
men winning their letters in football are:
McAulay, Sappenfield, Bohannon, Leg-
gett. Joe McConnell, Pinkney; in basket-
ball: Tom Anderson, and Hewlett; man-
ager of basketball: Oecland; manager of
football: McAllister; manager track:
Patton; Cheer Leader: Bryant.

Beginning about five o'clock on Satur-
day afternoon, when the initiates were
locked up in the boiler room of the
heating plant, until they assembled in
front of the dormitories about one
c’clock, things were stirring every min-
ute. Right after the show things began
to hum, though, and everything went
along smoothly until the last candidates
had passed along the rough path to be-
come a full-fledged member in that’ hon-
ored institution. To offset the racking
moments that they missed in the boiler
room, Trotter, Vance and Wells rend-
ered a very appropriate little song about
the times they have with their “darlings,”
during the picture show. .

Several of the older alumni members
of the D Club were present at the initia-
tion, among them being Doc DeArmon,
John Shenck and Pete Crayton. The
initiates. report that they made their
presence felt. On next Saturday night
the Club expects to have another big
meeting, when the other division of ini-
tiats will be shown along the rocky
pathway. It is understood that the ini-
tiates are hoping that several of the old
members are called away on business.
Saturday, and cannot be presnt.

SUCCESSFUL PRACTICE
CLOSED SATURDAY

The second, and probably the most suc-
cessful, spring football practice that
Davidson has ever experienced came to
a close last Saturday afternoon with the
game between the Red and Black teani
and Hickory High School. Two Satur-_
days previous to this had witnessed prac-
tice games between the Reds and the
Blacks, two picked teams of equal
strength, in which contests the Blacks
had won once 14-0, while the other game
was a tie 0-0.

During the five weeks that spring
training has lasted, more than fifty men
have reported each afternoon on the
athletic field. From their playing the
coaches have been able to get a line on
the team which will represent Davidson
next fall onthe gridiron. Quite a few.
have shown up so well as to instre them
of giving somebody a fight for his place
the coming September. Many of the
Freshmen who were on the squad looked
particularly promising, and the members |
of last fall’s Wildkitten team should

scratch even more effectively later on as”

fullgrown Wildcats.

Perhaps the greatest development of
the practice was Hugh Arrowood at end. |
His work last fall on the fresh team was
of highest order but this spring he show- |
ed conclusively, that he was real varsity
material. John Melton was converted
into a backfield man and promises to go
good. “Baker was shifted back to his
old position at end and has been Lae
good.

apes
N. C. State seems to start the season with

the best chances, 12 letter men from their
championship team returning this spring. The

Techmen will open their season over here on
our grass infield on April Fool’s day.’ What

,ten thousand of his fellow

, brought joy to Queens College.

Wealthiest Baltimorian ‘Sophomores Planning to
Athletes Into “D” Club Wires Bequest to Queens) Stage Supreme Banquet

Saturday Sees vea’’ Eighteen Pass ‘Sir B’Jove Rogers’ gers’ Gift Causes Up- | As Uusual Feed Will Go to Charlotte

roar in New York—Hasty
Exodus at Queens

Gift Unexplanable :
Paralleling the great Duke bequest in
his magnificent generosity and bringing

the United-Order-of-Squeeze-the-Dollar-
Tight to their feet with cries of
“Treason,” Sir B’Jove Rogers by one
stroke of his Woolsworth pen today,
Follow-
ing an entire life uninterrupted by even
one example of magnanimity though
daily Mr. Rogers has been storing away
vast sums, stocks (private) and bonds, the
announcement of his benevolent gift
created quite a stir.
Wall Street Closes for Day

As the news of Sir Rogers’ gift was
flashed across the wires to Charlotte,
from which it went leaping throughout
the world, a telegraph operator in New
York City realized the ambition of his
life. There in tha somber, dull quiet of
the New York Exchange, where the
monotony of small sums of money pass-
ing over the wires had almost sent him
back to Main Street, the Western Union
employee, fainted with excitement at the
amount Sir Rogers was giving to the
school, He is expected to recover.

Charlotte Goes Wild

A brass band was immediately charter-
ed on receipt of the news. For the first
time in the history of the city the street

car men struck for higher wages, aband-.
in front of the well-,

oning their cars
known college. The college girls, who
had never before violated the stringent
rules of the institution, swamped down
upon the derelick cars, shot the current
to them ,sending the cars out upon di-
verse routes in a wild celebration,
Davidson Quietly Honors Rogers
The inhabitants of the little college vil-
lage, shocked beyond immediate recov-
ery, closed their tiny shops, walked to
their respective homes where they were
met by their tearful wives. The students
were too overcome to speak about the

matter, Actually men passed each other
on the dry walks without lifting their
heads. The boys after spending several
years in close fellowship with Rogers

are unable to solve the problem, Cross-
word puzzles have been thrown away,
books were blowing over the campus,
meals were forgotten., No one cared to
eat in such strenuous times.

Mr. Rogers Speaks Little

Rogers in his palatial apartment
roof-garden of the West-is-West
suilding was simply dressed as usual.
No servants were at the doors and a
cheap “Come in” answered the reporters’
taps. When asked what caused his great

Mr.
in the

outpouring of blessing upon the poor, |

half-fed and = half-clad Amazons Mr.
Rogers answered with his well known
scanty phrascology “Pity.” Tears came
into his eyes as he told of the hundreds
of circulars which greeted his eyes every
time he looked at the ground around the |
post office. A half-broken man, he did
not in the least seem to regret the act. |
He said that when he thought of the
many dollars that those soiled and torn,
pamphlets represented he could not re-
sist the temptation to atone for them.

No Strings to Gift

Mr. Rogers said that there were ab-
solutely no strings to gift. In fact he
intimated that his great wealth could not
be further taxed even by strings.

Money Came Slowly

Sir Rogers, coming penniless from Bal- |
timore to Davidson, has gradually built
up a great fortune. Further than saying
that it was by a penny-by-penny process,
Rogers would not reveal anything more.
His usual stinginess of words was in
evidence.

(Special to Davidsonian)

CHARLOTTE, N. C.. MARCH 12— At
|a special meeting of the board of trustees
of the college it was unanimously decided
|to begin the immediate construction of
the Rogers Incinerator. In view of the
character of Mr. Rogers and the love
that he has expressed for his “alma
soror”, this was thought to be especially
fitting.

(Special to Davidsonian)

CHESTER, S. C., MARCH 12 — Ten
street cars bearing the imprint of Char-
lotte, passed through here late tonight in
Spite of vain attempts of local police
force to arrest them for speeding. The
cars, carrying what seemed to be a pic-

members of |

{the position most capably.

With Picture Shov Show Following

Everything seems “ms to. be in readiness

for the long anticipated Sophomore ban-|

quet, which is to get under way at the
Charlotte Chamber of Commerce ban-
quet hall, promptly at 7 o’clock on the
night of March 19. The members of the}
committees have been working hard to}
get everything in tip-top shape, and to!
see that no detail, which would add to
the enjoyment and comfort of the class
and their guests, is neglected. They
have succeeded in such a way, as to in-
dicate that the annual event will be one
of the best ever held.

The program will be varied and inter-
esting, speeches and musical numbers be-
ing combined. From the time Toast-
master Branch takes charge until the
close of the banquet there is not expect-
ed to be a dull moment or let-up in the
program, which will be a ready disperser
of grouches. Nothing but jollity and
good fellowship will prevail. Among the
guests will be thre or four members of
the faculty, including Prof, Ff. K. Fore-
man, the Soph faculty advisor.

Willard Keerans is in charge of decora- |
tions and he plans to have the banquet,

room attractively decorated. A special
souvenir program is being arranged by
the class committee, and, of course, will
be given to all who attend. The Sopho-
mores will be transported to Charlotte
and brought back by special busses. Af-

ter the banquet the class will probably)

attend a motion picture in a body.

The Members of the committee mak-
ing arrangements are: W. T. Covington,
Harllee Branch, Floyd Jones, Don
Wharton, Willard Keerans, W.S. Woods,
Jim Pinkney, and Bill Christian.

S. A. ES ARE HOSTS TO
ALUMNI IN QUEEN CITY

The Davidson Chapter of Sigma Alpha
Epsilon were hosts to the alumni at a
Founders’ Day banquet last
night night at the New Charlotte Hotel.
The banquet was held in celebration of
the sixty-ninth anniversary of the found-
ing of the fraternity. Major A. J. James,
Davidson, '06, was toastmaster and filled)
Several short
talks by
active men in the chapter were enjoyed
during the course of the evening.

The desire o fa closer relation between
the alumni of Charlotte and the chapter

at Davidson was expressed several times ,

during the dinner. The goal sought af-

ter by all present was the established: |

ment of an alumni association in Char-
lotte. The diners were entertained by
songs rendered by Watt McCain, David-
son, 24nd piano selections by Bob Dye.

Carolina, '23. Approximately a hundred
alumni and men of the chapter were en-
tertained at the dinner.

EIGHT INTERCOLLEGIATE
DEBATERS

(Continued! fror from page 1)
and Wharton, on the Wake Forest team, with
| Branch as alternate, and Shaw, Martingand
Ratchford, on the P. C. team, with Holts-
houser as alternate.
All of the large number out for places on
the two teams showed excellent preparation

| according to the judges ’report, and they had |

some difficulty in deciding who were the best
fitted.

The successful candidates are all members
of literary societies, and each society is rep-

‘resented by one or more men. Bowie, Branch,
_and Martin, belong to the Eumenean; Parker | social purposes since the provision was that
| and Wharton, to the Metrophilian; Shaw and | the seats were not to be removed.

Ratchford to the Pandeinic; and Holtshouser
to the Philanthropic.

Although definite dates for the contests
with Wake Forest and P. C. have not yet

| been set, the two debates will be held some |

time the latter part of April and the first
week in May.

nic-wild crowd of yourful maidens on;
their way from a funeral, were loaded to
the muzzle. Efforts to determine where
they are from and whence they are go-
ing were fruitless.
(Special to Davidsonian)

RICHBURG, S. C, MARCH 12—One
young lady, crowded off the cars from
Charlotte, today told hospital attendants
that girls were leaving Queens because
of private information received that they
wotld have to go to work to pay interest
on the Rogers gift which after all was
only a loan. (New York Papers please

copy.)

Monday |

the alumni and also by the | ©

, and Roseberry and Debele on the negative. |

| Junior class that the hall be placed at their
| disposal during Junior Speaking was pro-

Wildcat Hall of Fame

LOUIS BROYLES CRAYTON
| Football**
Baseball***

Louis Crayton, coming to Davidson
from Charlotte, proved to be one of the
best all-round athletes that the school
had produced up to that time. He was
our stellar backfield man in his senior
jyear, and when spring came along he
|played the best brand of baseball seen
jon the hill for many a day.

“Pete”, after leaving Davidson, enter-
ed the business world and showed his
ability as a real leader. He later return-
led to his alma mater as coach, giving up
his business for a time and, in spite of
|poor material, turned out a fighting,
scrappy team that opponents of the
“Wildcats” feared.

The “Quips and Cranks” of 1915 had
the following to say about Crayton:
“Pete” ran like a war-horse and was
built like a brick house. The opposing
ends and tackles learned to fear him as
he put one of them out of every game.
He was quite a ladies’ man, too. He had
chosen chemistry as his hobby, and if he
pursues it, as he does other things, he is
sure to succeed.”

|

“Pete” played class-football for a year
and varsity for two. Baseball, however,
was his favorite and he starred for three
seasons in the sandlot game. He served
as president of the “D” club and was a
member of the executive committe of
the athletic association.

His team in 1919, when he was acting
as coach, played teams such as Georgia
Tech, Wake Forest, V. M. 1, W. & L.,
Clemson and Furman, besides the usual
array of state teams. The Wildcat team
of that year caused much favorable
comment from the papers of the South.

. Literary Societies

Pandeinic

The last meeting of the society was called
to order by President Gibbs. After the
usual preliminaries the query of the debate
was read: Resolved, That North Carolina
should ratify the port ternrinals and trans-
poe act, The affirmative was upheld

y J. S. Gray, P. J. Garrison, F. T. Frank-
lin and W. H. Bardeaux. Those who debated
on the negative were A. H. Hollingsworth,
C. R. McCarty, J. W. Farnum, and R. H.
McIlwaine. The bill was defeated.

J. F. McCrary was brought up for mem-
bership and was initiated into the society.

Eumenean

The Eumenean Literary Society held its
regular meeting Thursday evening in Eu
hall. Wade Allison, vice-president, presided
in the absence of President Purdy. In an
extemporancous debate, Resolved, That the |
R. O. T. C. should be abolished from the,
curriculum of Davidson College, Engle and |
Gladney were appointed on the affirmative, |

While these gentlemen were preparing their.
debats, W. C. Ramsey delivered an oration,
| Civic Pride, a plea for better campus con-
ditions. The judges of the debate awarded
the decision to the affirmative. On the floor ,
| Ramsey led the opposition and the house de-
cided for the negative. Paul Freeland then |
| gave a unique short story in a most pleasing |
way.

A motion in respect to a request of the!

| Visionally passed. The action that the society
| took makes the hall of no use whatever for

| Duke University is planning a champion-
ship team. Dempster, the best college pitcher
|in the state, is captain, having signed for
|the summer’s work following graduation
| with the Greensboro Patriots.

| The Tar Heels lost Bryson but will have
Bill Ferebee~still on the mound. !

pass casasssSsasSsaassaaessaassaasssaaaaasasssassseasseaaasanasssnaasssaassmasssaaaassaaessaasssaasssaaaasaaseee

NEXT
To being
Curator of the I. C. S.
The Most useless job i in the world
Is to be water carrier
On the swimming
Team.

“What is it when you're married.twice
at the same time?” ©
“Polygamy.”
“And when) you’re married once.
“Monotony.”
—C. C. N. Y. Mercury.

ust one of many! The others
ar fully as desirabl — foot-

wear for any requirement, any
< 1, & reasonably p

riced.
You ar cordially invited to
come and look ’em over!

On Display By
Mr. A. M. Shimmon
at Honor Store
19th and 20th

ohn
's Shoes

INCORPORATED — REG. U.S. PAT. OFF.

Stores in New orn Brooklyn, Ni
Phra ae Day eed Mt
Grdere, sgn thodson vt, New York ley

[psesssecccccceccccsscnssosonsssoooneneoeees

r)

Smart as They
Make °Em.---

And Just as Correct

That’s what these new

spring suits are like.

Lots of pep and ginger
about the patterns.

Lots of snap and style to
the models.

Spring’s already started---
better drop in and look

?em over.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

The Most Convenient For
~ * Davidson Men —

