Vas
THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 1, 1925

|.

IMPERIAL

Theatre
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Mon., Tues., Wed.
NORMA
SHEARER

“A Slave of

Literary Societies

Philanthropic

The first meeting of the Philanthropic
Society was held last Thursday night at
Phi Hall with Ben Ratchford, president,
in the chair.

An interesting devotional period was
conducted by Hodgkins followed by a de-
bate with the question for discussion:
“Resolved, that the immigration laws
should be more lenient.”

The affirmative was represented by

on a regular meeting time for a society

of their own; after Thanksgiving to be

taken in with the older members. Vice-

President Wharton, of the Metrophilian,

will have charge of this society which

will meet on Wednesday evenings.
Eumenean

The regular weekly meeting of the
Eumenean Literary Society was called |
to order by the president, T. C. Barr, on |
Thursda evening at 7:30.

Instead of the regular program the
meeting took the form of a discussion of
the constitution. It was decided that
certain revisions should be made in the
constitution. Particularly in regard to

Fashion”

HENDRIX SCORES

(Continued from page 1)
Bell racing the kick-off: back for 38 yards.
A 27yard pass to Wright placed the ball on
Davidson's: 29-yard line, Overton carrying
the receiver out of bounds with a mighty
tackle as he alone stood between him and
touchdown, Pinkney, Davidson, end, grab-

ed as Leggette punted 46 yards from the

line of scrimmage to Wofford’s 20-yard line.
Terriers on Rush

Davidson kicked to the Terriers, who rush-

ed the ball down the field for three consecu-

tive first downs to Davidson’s 30-yard line.

Calhoun and Alexander while Houth and the time of initiation of new members. A
Davis defended the negative. The de-| committee composed of Allison as chair- |
cision committee, composed of Pritchett, | man, was appointed to recommend and }

Here Captain Black took a forward pass out
of the air. Never again did the Wofford

bed the next pass. The second quarter end- |

Williford and Hodgkin rendered a de-
cision in favor of the negative.

Phillips and Dixon injected some spice
/in the meting when they debated extem-
| poranously on the question of such vital
|importance: Resolved: “That it better
| to have loved and lost than never to have
;loved at all.” Phillips, representing the

WITH
LEW CODY
---COMMENCING THURSDAY---
Harold Bell Wright’s
“A Son of His Father”

A Paramount Picture

ler Dixon.

| their names to the secretary at this meet- |
ling. The president gave some very help-
ful words to both the new men and the
old ones, urging that they enter into the
spirit of the work and help put things
over.

Charlotte
Transfer Company

Metrophilian |

The Metrophilian Literary Society held |
its second mecting Tuesday evening, Sep- |
tember 22nd, at 7:15 in Phi Hall. Pres- |
ident Roland Parker presided.
The program was short and interest- |

- PHONE 298

BAGGAGE

| affirmative was awarded the decision oy-

Eight candidates for membership gave |

| formulate the proposed changes.

| The report of this committee will be
;presented Thursday night at the meet-
jing of the society.

|

|

Cinema Star Draws Many

Lois Wilson Admired by Local
Brummels—Unable to Visit
Davidson

It is the present ambition of all Da-
vidson students to be governor; mainly
because they might have the chance, as
our present governor did, of appearing
on the stage and holding hands with that
beautiful young woman referred to as
“the pride of Alabama and the glory of
the South.”

When news reached Davidson that

| eleven come into Davidson territory. Grey |

Association, which has changed the plan
of selecting cheer leaders and assistants.

The custom has heretofore been to hold
the election of the leader at the end of
his Junior year, and to elect the assist-
ants at the first-of the year in which they
serve. Under the new plan, however,
the leader is chosen at the beginning of
the baseball season of his Junior year.
He then takes charge at the first baseball
| game and hold office until the last bas-
ketball game of his Senior year, at which
time his successor is named. The can-
didates for assistant will now try out
during the baseball season of their Soph-
omore year and continue until the first
football trip of the next year, when the
two successful men will be named.

The purpose of this change is.solely to

kicked 40 yards to the edge of the 25-ward| give experience and poise. Under the
line. On the next play Laird dived with the | former ruling cheer leaders were forced
pass to get the ball for Davidson. Wofford | to take charge at opening football games
strengthened and Grey's place kick, going | Without having had an opportunity to
wild, was covered by McConnell on the 22-| accuctom themselves to the work and

Students 3 to Queen City

yard line. |
Kick is Wild |
The quarter ended as Black's place kick |
went wild for a touchback. |
The fourth period was Davidson’s despite |
ithe fact that the Wilcats suffered heavily on |
| penalties. For some strange reason the Da- |
vidson quarter called for three passes, one
of which he went high into the air to gather
for 11 yards. Dick Grey made the other one,
again from Black, good for eight yards.
Coach Younger held his passing attack as
well as all trick plays for futyre delivery,
with the Wake Forest game next week in
Charlotte in view.
The game ended with it third down and
| five to go, Davidson’s ball on Wofford’s 29-
yard line.

become acquainted with its. difficulties.

Mrs. G. R. Vowles and little son, Rich-
ard, have arrived from Chicago an dare
occupying Mrs. Worth’s residence.

Mrs. Weldon Schuch and little daugh-
ter, Miss Sallie Schuck, are visitors in
town.

Miss Maude Vincent, and her mother,
Mrs. W. D. Vincent, spent the week-end
with Mrs, Hall in Statesville.

MEME Meee MORNLEROT ORNL NREL ITAL LOL ORNL IIT

| PRINTING

AND TAXI
SERVICE

JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

The logical place for Da-

vidson men to eat in Char-

NOTE BOOKS

S. Tryon St.

NORTON’S BARBER SPOP

THE SHOP WHERE SERVICE

IS FOREMOST

: : ; | Miss Lois Wilson, beautiful cinema star : .
ing. After the devotional exercises, led | and. favorites actress oO OnDavidton Ta Equally spectacular with the work of Hen-

by Lyerly, an impromptu debate was en- | dents, was to be the guest of the Cato-| drix and Grey was the play of Harry Vance
tered into. The query was, “Resolved: |linas Exposition, the Wildcats were wild | in the Wildcat line. He smeared Terrier
That there should be an amendment tO! to sce her. They flocked to Charlotte in| Plays behind the line with consistency.
the Constitution which would control | huge bunches to see her, and perhaps, by Richie, substitute tackle, also worked great
Child Labor.” On the affirmative were | : + |

A Man’s Character is Reflected in
the Stationery He Uses

TYPEWRITER SUPPLIES

POUND & MOORE Co.

OUR AIM IS TO PLEARE

Henry Powell and Charles McRae, while |
the negative was ypheld by L. D. Whar- |
ton and Don Stewart. The vote of the|
judges was in favor-‘of the negative. |
Critic Pullen’s report followed.

The new members, of whom four were
upper-classmen, were then initiated fio
the society. The initiation was very |
brief but impressisve. President Parker |
concluded with an addres sof welcome. |
The upper classmen were T, S. Lawson, |
Senior, Vernon Broyles and W. K, For- |
bes, Juniors, and J. A. Ricks, Sophomore. |

Following the program was the feed.
While some 50 odd men were satisfying
their bodily wants with punch, fruits,
and cakes, followed by smokes, Professor
Wachter gave a talk intended especially
for the new members. He stressed the
importance of literary society work in
college life and commended the men who
had just associated themselves with a
society.

After the meeting was adjourned, the
Freshmen remained behind to decide up-

STATIONERY

CHARLOTTE

III it titi iii tic tit ttt ttt ei LILLL22

FELLOWS, WE BELIEVE

-~IN-.-
CO-OPERATION

: We serve the best and leave it to our satisfied custoriters.” (7 <”:
to do the rest

The Sanitary Cafe

Mooresville, N. C.
Next door to Artcraft Theatre

+

| ducing himself to the movie-star.

‘| home and wish to continue to do so here at

*) GtS: Wk <Rntow the vegular Sunday School

knew but what one might have the op- |
portunity of saving her from the reckless |
and dangerous traffic of the city of
Charlotte?

A great deal of influence was exerted
to keep Sheik Westbrook from intro-
This
influence was exerted in the interest of
the moving picture fans all over the
world. Once Miss Wilson met the above
mentioned young’ man, once she listened
to that sweet voice, her talents would be
lost to the motion picture profession.

One enterprising student sent a bid to
a house party to Miss Wilson, and had a
room reserved for her last week-end. It
has been rumored that an answer has
been received to the invitation, in which
Miss Wilson expresses regrets in not be-
ing able to visit Davidson.

At one of Miss Wilson’s appearances
in Charlotte there wre a number of
Queens in the back of the audience. As
the actress started to leave the stage,
the girls all rose to get a better view.
Frederick Smith, a student of psychol-
ogy, was anxious to find the stimulus of
this action. Upon inquiry he found that
they were trying to see the length of her
dress, so that they might govern them-
selves accordingly.

Students Establish New
Class at t Sunday School

Mr. Jackson is Superintendent of
Special Class for College
Students

For several years there has been main-
tained in connection with the Sunday School
department of the church a Sunday School
class for students. This class is open to all
men of the college and should be of especial
benefit to those who have been accustomed to
take an active part-in Sunday School life at

Davidson.

The Sunday School department has as
superintendent, Mr. F. L. Jackson. The of-
fiicers of the student class are: Y. R.
Simms, president, and R. L. Mitchell, secre-
tary and treasurer. It is taught in a some-
what unique manner—not by one teacher
alone but five teachers in rotation. They
are as follows: Dr, E. F. Shewmake, first
Sunday Professor Currie, second Sunday ;
Dr. J. M. Douglas, third Sunday; Prof. W.
L, Porter, fourth Sunday, and Dr. Wood, for
the fifth Sunday: of the month. The teach-

course except when they have some special
message to bring to the class,

The fact that others are finding this class
of benefit should constitute an appeal to such
as have not yet joined. It meets every Sun-
day morning in the balcony of thé church, at
10 o'clock.

| some lucky chance to meet her. Who | the defensive.

End Play Great

Pinkney and Bohannon showed the spec-
tators that to the letters-they won last year,
while guarding the flanks, will be added stars
of brilliancy. Not once did any Wofford
back sweep around the Davidson ends. All
the Davidson punts were unusually well cov-
evered while they both provided able line-
interference.

Wright, on the visiting end, was a steady
player, while Reams and Wright came near
taking the game in the third quarter with
their great plunges through the line.

Davidson (7) Position, Wofford (0)
Pinkney- -. -. -. -. LE -. __ -. ~. Thaxton
HEN co og a IL os as ca iettig (CC)
Vance -. -- -. -. ---LG -. -. Haynesworth
McConnell --'-. ----C -- -. -. -. Skelton
Baker -- -. -. -. ---RG _. -. = =. Lewis
Anderson -.-. -. --_RT -- -. -. -. Pressley
Bohannon -- -. -. --RE -. -. -. ~~ Wright
Hehdrixics == <2 =-2Q@B 2. << .- 22 Wells
Welisibnae 22. 2 22 2 22 raul
Gheyrs secs ee ee se oe Rell
Black: (G);-=2'5. = 2)PB .2) 2. 22 22 22 ill
Davidson\es se e-c2s--c-— 0) 7, 0. 027,
WOH eo eo es cco OO 0 00

Referee, Gass (Lehigh) ; umpire, Hartsell
(N. C. State) ; headlinesman, Harrell (North
Carolina) ; scoring; touchdown, Hendrix;
placement after touchdown, Laird.

Substitutions—Davidson: Richie for An-
derson, Overton for Wells, Leggette for
Gery, Maulden for Baker, Baker for Mauld-
en, Wells for Overton, Harrison for Wells,
Grey for Leggette, Overton for Grey, Leg-
gette for Overman, McComb for Leggette.
Wofford: Reams for Hill, W. Wright for
Faulk, Faulk for W. Wright, Hill for
Reams, Habell for Thaxston, Crook for
Skelton,

Time of quarters, 15 minutes; attendance,

3,600.

Two Junior Assistants

for Cheer Leader Monk

Seven Men Try Out For Positions—
New Method of Election

During the.past week or so tryouts
have been in progress for assistants to
Cheer Leader C. F. Monk. Seven men
from the Junior class have been showing
their wares at pep meetings lately, and
of this: number two will be elected by the
student body. It is probable that the
selection of these men will take place in
chapel on the morni of the Wake
Forest game, October~3rd. - Candidates
for the positions are: Bill Story, Bob
McConnell, W. H. Kornegay, W. H.
Bordeaux, J. H. Caligan, Clanton Wil-
liams and Cole M. Murchison.

It may be of interest to note that this
election is the first of its kind to be held
under the new ruling of the Athletic

When in need of first-class job
printing of any description, see

|

FRED SMITH
3 South Barracks
QUICK SERVICE °
BEST PRICES

Agent for

Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N. C.
RRNRRRARRRARKRRANERANRRRER

MRRRMRAMRRRRRMR KRW Mw

RRRRRRRRMRRRR

Here’s Style That’s “High-
Hat” at a Price That’s Not

Tailored for young men who like
good clothes, but don’t like to
pay a king’s ransom for them.
This suit is made of the famous
Clothcraft “5130” blue serge—
and there is nothing more prac-
tical or economical for college

$29.50

Aso made in brown and gray.

MELLON’S

