2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 1, 1925

Open Now for Service

HOT DOGS AND ALL GOOD
THINGS TO EAT

CASHION CAFE

Davidson, N. C.

SPORTOGRAPHS
By Ernest Milton

-
All aboard for Charlotte! We don't know
just now whether we are going on a special
HUNGRY 729? train or a bus, but we are going just the
: same. We, in the sense used above, is ex-
pected to mean almost every member of. the
Home Cooked. Those tasty {} pa vidson student body,
eats and delicious Punch ———
for feeds and parties You mustn't fail to see this game. It’s
P going to be a corker. No matter what the
; er) outcome, youe are going to be proud of the
SCHOFIELD (Miss Minnie 8) Davidson Wildcats, and you ought to be there
TEA ROOM to cheer them on in the face of a possible
onslaught by the already-declared state
+ champions.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks

Eversharp Pencils Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens

Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

It is too optimistic to say that we are go-
ing to beat Wake Forest, but we do say that
we are going to give them a fiight. Would-
n't it be fine to hold them to a scoreless tie?
Wouldn’t it be still better to score a touch-
down and win over them, or even three
points ?

The team had to fight hard against Wof-
ford last Saturday, but not as much as they
will against Wake Forest. The Wofford
line was like a brick wall most of the game,
and it was seldom that the backs could wig-
gle through for gains,

The whole Davidson team played well that
day. But we saw Flake Laird putt a stunt
that wont’ occur again for some time to come.
The ball had been snapped to the quarter-
back, who was holding it out for the half-
back to grab, planning to go out of bounds,
But before that halfback reached there Laird

The Tafe-Brown
Company

CHARLOTTE

College Men Want Wider
Shoulders and Snug Hips

We have these models in
suits of the type that uni-
versity men favor. The col-
ors have especial appeal---
rich backgrounds of blue
with harmonizing colors in-
terwoven, solid shades in
fancy weaves, Glen Urqu-
ardt plaids, Cheviot blues---
these are but afew. We in-
vite you to look them over.
There’s not the slightest obli-
gation involved in so doing.

$35, $40 to $50

KEERANS & KING

Agents. In Phi Hall

had broken through, grabbed the ball as it
was loosely held by the quarterback, and the
pigskin was Davidson's. It took a fast man
to do that.

To sing the praises of all the players
would take more than a measley column, so
we'll just mention Grey, Hendrix, Vance,
Ritchie and the ends, Pinkney and Bohan-
non, In fact, we ought to have named the
whole eleven.

Rip Major says that Davidson will have a
good team before the season is over and that
North Carolina team had better watch. Just
now we would like to say that the South
Carolina teams had better watch the Wof-
ford team rip its way through to some vic-
tories, for it already has a good team.

You've heard of the four horsemen of
Notre Dame. That name has been applied to
the Wake Forest backfield, and they have a
foursome that loves to clip off yards at a
fast pace better. than anything else. Our
backfield is speedy, too. So watch out.

There is going to be 10 pounds difference
per man in the line Saturday, but then Da-
vidson will make up for some of that dif-
ference by the spirit of fight the boys have.

Last year Thomas Baker played one of
his most brilliant games in Charlotte against
Clemson. And so did Vance. Tom and
Harry will both be in their regular positions
that day, for Coach Monk has shifted Baker
to tackle, and Vance remains as he is. Just
watch something from these two men in that
game. We are hoping for a repetition of the
Clemson performance, not only of these

men, but of every man on the team.

MODERNLY EQUIPPED

“FRED'S” RECREATION HALL

BILLIARDS
205 West Trade Street (up stairs)

Meet your friends here and make this your club when in Charlotte

MORALLY CONDUCTED

EAT AT

THE ASTOR LUNCH
SERVICE

| THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N. C.

-/tions for the majority of their members. It

HOW DAVIDSON WILDCATS AND
DEMON DEACONS STACK UP
Place—Wearn Field, Charlotte.
Time—3 :00.
Coaches—“Hank” Garrity, Wake Forest.
“Monk” Younger and “Tex” Tilson, Davidson.
Probable Line-ups.
Wake Forest. Weight. Position. Davidson. Weight.
Rileyestea terse 22250165 LE Pinkney 32°25 2: S535 22:2:158
Gollierce-os cass) Sos. 180 LT Waitdtes 2. 2s co seees A178
NOHNSOneSe es es eStss 215 LG Wance csvessco foes ce 2168
Emmerson -- -- -- -- -- 185 Cc McConnell -. -. -- -- -- 160
WSttZees S5- Seeces! co sa < 190 RG Grey) res. eee oes 161
llerbeses eS Se ea 190 RT Baker-22 so ss sss ces 155
Duniels ss cates: cose ee 175 RE Bohannon ~~ -- -- -- -- 159
RACK OVens ces casa ca, -5 7145: QB Hendtixwo co°23 Goes cS 146
Greason (C) -- -- -- -- 148 LH Wi6llS2ee ua co teeres ae 104
ObGigevesces cl be ssc W165 RH Gteyrec cues: ve See 156
Ghacklestotwes eetea es 2o0170 FB Black2es, cen 20s es 25 7164
Karleskint -. -2 -. -- -- 178 FB
Team weight -. -- -. -- 1,936 Team weight -------- 1755
Team average -. -- -- -- 176 Team average -. -. 159
End to end -- -- -- -- -- 185 5/7 End to end -- -. -- 167 1/7
Tackle to tackle -- -. -. 192 Tackle to tackle -- -. 164 1/5
Backfield -. -. -. -. -- 159 Backfield -. -- -. -. 154 3/4

Fresh Eleven Propares
for Opening of Season

Coach Mattox Drives Freshmen
Through Strenuous Drills—
High Point is First Enemy

¢

With the first game of the season only a|
little over a week away, Monk Mattox,
Freshman mentor, is putting his Wildkitten
charges through some heavy scrimmaging
this week. The team is fast rounding into
shape.

High Point College will be the first op-
ponent for the Freshmen, who open the sea-
son against.them on October 9. Little is
known of the caliber of the High Point
team, but Coach Mattox is expecting a hard
battle. He has been putting his squad
through heavy scrimmage work all this week,
but expects to lighten the work some next
week,

A tentative varsity is being used in prac-
tice daily, tvhich includes Monk and Mc-
Clure at ends, Ritchie and Leftwick at
tackles, Homgreen and Lefevre at guards,
and Kerr at the pivot position. Vance, a
tackle, is showing up well, although he is
new to the game, and Vaughan is giving
Kerr a race for center. Ends McConnell
and Ghant are also threatening to take a
place on the first team.

A spirited battle is being staged for back-
field positions, although at present Flynn
seems to have the choice at quarter over En-
berg. Williams, another quarterback, is out
with a bad shoulder. Kerr and James have
been ‘running at halfback, with Black and
Smith alternating in the fullback position.
King and Myers are also promising backs
who stand a good chance for a varsity job.

GARRITY AND YOUNGER

(Continued from page 1)

defeat from the Wildcats since the days of
Big Hammet in 1920, having won two and
tied one game in the three clashes between
the two schools. In 1921 Wake Forest won
10-7, the following year tieing the Wildcats
6-6 when Heckman pulled the last-minute
come-back stunt. The 1923 Baptist victory
of 6-0 made it two wins for Wake Forest
to nine for Davidson in the 12 years of
football,

SIX FRATERNITIES

(Continued from page 1)

cupying houses of their own out in town.
The former have rented Mrs. White’s home
and are now in possession of a very attrac-
tive homie. © Tire“fatter-have tented the old
Laird place and after extensive remodeling
work have made it into a thoroughly up-to-
date and comfortable home.

In each of these are sleeping accommoda-

is the plan of these two groups to build in
the future and at that time to have quarters
for their entire membership in their respec-

tive houses,

Capt. Elkins to Coach
Pugilists T! his Season

Adequate Equipment Will Be Pro-
vided for Devotees of the
Manly Art

Adequate equipment and competent
coaches will be provided for boxing at Da-
vidson this year, but in order to turn out a
team that will bring credit to the college it
will be necessary for a large number of can-
didates to come out regularly and work.
Captain Elkins will coach the squad in the
fundamentals of boxing until they are far
enough advanced to appreciate the fine points
of the sport, when a professional pugilist
from Charlotte or elsewhere will be secured |
to add the finishing touches to their training.

Captain Elkins expects to begin work on
the boxing squad early in November and get
them in shape for the elimination bouts in |
January and February. The winner in each
of the seven classes will be the college cham-
pion of his class and a member of the box-
ing team. For the benefit of those who are
unlearned in the realm of boxing the seven
classes are as follows:

Heavyweight, above 175 pounds.
Light heavyweight, 160-175 pounds.

Welterweight, 140-150 pounds.
Lightweight, 125-140 pounds.
Bantamweight, 115-125 pounds.
Flyweight, under 115 pounds.

Meets will be secured with those schools
having teams and consequently the boxing
team will take practically the same trips as
the wrestling team.

Interest was shown in boxing last year but
of a very mild variety. If the students want
a boxing team this year they have merely to
come out and take advantage of the equip-
ment and coaches provided for their use.

‘STEPPING HIGH

Tom Barr, while walking dazedly along
Broadway this past summer saw some
fine red apples in a fruit-vender’s win-
dow, and feeling hungry at the time, he
decided to make a purchase of some of
them.

“Give me two of those,” he said to the
clerk, handing him a five dollar bill.
“How much are they?”

The clerk thought he knew a hick when
he saw one.

“Two dollars apiece,” he said, quickly
producing, the dollar change.

“Just keep the dollar, bo, and we'll be
square,” said Tom. “I stepped on a grape
when I came in.”

“Say, Pa, what is ‘Sic transit’ ?”
‘Sic transit?’

| course.”

Middleweight, 150-160 pounds.

best.

Columbia Theological
Seminary

1828-1925

Colubmia Theological Seminary
is an approved Seminary for minis-
ters in the Southern Presbyterian
Church, It is the official Seminary
for the Synods of South Carolina,
Georgia, Florida, Mississippi.

The Faculty is composed of mea
who are chosen for pre-eminence:

1. In Christian Character
2. In Scholarship

3. In Approved Ability

4, As Moulders of Thought
5. As Leaders of Men

The student body is composed of
picked men from the choicest Chris-
tian homes of the South. Their mo-
tives, ability and character have been
approved by their home church,
Presbytery andcollege. These young
men come to the Seminary to re-
ceive special training for leadership
in the most important sphere of hu-
man experience. :

Columbia Seminary offers to its
students thorough training, sympa-
thetic fellowship, helpful co-opera-
tion, practical experience, a true con-
ception of the meaning of service.

RICHARD T. GILLESPIE, Pres.

and those “college feeds.”

FELLOWS!

We spare no pains in our,efforts to serve the

We take pleasure in soliciting banquets

See our managers

for information and prices.

The Maxwell-Chambers Hotel

‘

MANAGERS
H. L. SHAW F. R. HUDSON H. D. BURKE
be — — — ——— ——o Ne _Ee—— —ouNO-—-, ——————
SPR

| Mooresville Ice Cream Company

Incorporated

“DE LUXE” ICE CREAM

Brick and Fancy Creams---Eskimo Pies

Mooresville, N. C.

Why, an amublance, of

