7

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 13, 1926

Alumni Secretary Makes
Report for Ty wo Months

Work of Ernest Milton, Secretary
of a Comprehensive Nature in
Brief Time He Has Been
Working
a committee was appointed,to select an alumni

eral years’ deliberation that the employment
of a man for this office was essential. The

began his duties at Davidson August 16.

floor, laying his own foundation for the

work, and mapping out his duties with the | The Stunt Night performance will start
assistance of administrative officers the promptly at a quarter past eight, November t
college and others in the Alumni Associa- 13. in Shearer Hall. Tickets are 50 cents |
tion. An office has been equipped in the and reserved seats may be secured from

south end of Elm Row—the old Kappa Alpha
hall—and work formerly connected with oth-
er departments at Davidson has been placed
in his hands,

A rather comprehensive program was map-
ped out at he beginning, and a report after
two months and a half of work indicates the
possibilities of the work, and the scope of
the work he is doing.

more modern selections.

girls’ schools.

There is keen rivalry among the

| practice.

well written and directed.

ten by Bob Covington.

Neely, Tyree Dillard, and J. K. Preston.

The personnel of
this quartet, also is practically unchanged
from last year. Other popular songs will be.
presented by Ed Wilson, trilling tenor, ac-
companied at the piano by H. R. Mobley.
On the Glee Club trip two years ago, Ed re-
ceived monumental applause, especially at

four

; classes concerning their respective stunts, and
At the annual. alumni luncheon last June, each class is having much hard and seeret

; These stunts are a continual suc-
secretary, the association agreeing after sev- cession of hearty jokes and shines, and are

; M aay The Dramatic Club will present one of
committee selected Mr. Ernest Milton, who their famed one-act plays, “Ten Days,” waite

} The cast will in-
The secretary had to begin on the ground clude Miss. Hood, Boyce Martin, John Mc-

ing position.
The line-up and summary follow:

Substitutions—Hampden-Sidney : Scott for
Turley; Worden for Carter; Carter for
Worden; Blanton for Savage; Savage for
Blanton; Ayres for Myles; Garred for Rob-
erts; Roberts for Garred; Jones for Atkins ;
Richardson for Palmer; Ruffner for Ed-
munds; Sevy for Bremer.

| . SRE .
have the game end with Davidson in a scor- Evans (Virginia), umpire; Harrell (Caro-

j lina), head linesman. Time of quarters, 15
| minutes. .

| Our “Drummer Boy Bob” comes out |
| with another popular song this week, and |
linforms us that he will soon have his |
‘orchestra ready to play it for us: “I'd |
lrather have two girls of sixteen than one
lof thirty-two.” |

| SIXTY-FOUR MEN PLEDGED

H.-Sidney (12) Pos. Davidson |
| Turley 22.2 sau. IB) Dp een ea Bohannon
Canter eo Lsceuless LE etsesueccd Lincoln

Nance suscccccecce LG cccssanouesee Laws

DUdIeY weccsccss Genter accoces McConnell

Savage esocssuccse RG itsssescesese Boggs

Myies ----- PROP rrr Riviscescwsues Ritchie

Roberts: e2scesescs Rig euececos Arrowood |

Bremer cosusececs OBecsgace Sappenfield |

AtK§S cecsucoaunce RE iseicseves D. Grey

Paltierssovessncccs 18 Geer Wells(c) |

Edmunds --------- PB iseueusweses Farrell

Continued from page 6)
| etteville, N. C.; R. E. L. Holt, Jr., Burling-
ton, .N. C.; F. V. Poag, Fayetteville, N. C.;

| Eugene W. Smith, Dunn, N. C.; D. T.
| Stokes, Burlington, N. C.; R. A. peer

| Duncan, Okla.
|

|
| Professional Notices .

Phones: Office, 588-- Residence, 65 J

DR. VANCE HASTY

DeNTIST

me cal National Bank Building
STATESVILLE, N. C.

Anderson Building. Court Street Entrance Com-

d ur: Daily 8 to 5. jEvenings 7 t09. Sundays
I2tv2

ecoooe

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN
DENTIST

811, 312, 313, 314 and 315 Professional Bu Iding

: Charlotte, N. C.
Phones: Office 5050. Residence, 1937-3

Caldwell Withers at the same price.
The program is as follows:
1. Junior Stunt.

Since coming to Davidson in the middle of
August Mr. Milton has organized three |
Alumni Associations—at Greensboro, Rock
Hill and Salisbury—and visited the |
Charlotte Alumni Association, being at the }
meeting there last night. His aim this year
is to obtain at least.25 local organizations of
Davidson alumni. :

He has had charge of the last two bulle-
tins of Davidson, writing them, and seeing
that they were mailed out to alumni. He has
sent out a letter for the committee that em-
ployed him, as well as a special letter to the
alumni in regard to the Home-coming cele-
bration here today.

has

In the two letters mailed out he has en-
closed cards for the Loyalty League, and has
received within six weeks a total of $760
from 116 alumni, and will continue to push
this phase of his ‘duties.

Mr. Milton also issued a blotter with the
football. schedule on it, with reference to
Home-coming Day. He has sent out a letter
for one class president to 220 students, mailed
out an invitation for the Charlotte Alumni

Association, and has sent letters to alumni in
Greensboro, Rock Hill and Salisbury, urging
their attendance at organization meetings.
They totaled 200 letters, all personally
signed,

One of his duties is to handle publicity. In
two months and a half he has written 219
news articles, sent to a total of 10,149 news-
papers, which amounts to over 75,000 words;
receives in his offices and carefully clips
news items, editorials and articles about Da-
vidson men in 15 newspapers. He has had
made and sent out 353 pictures of Davidson
football players and other items,

In addition to the above he has written ap-
proximately 500 personal letters to alumni,
and has traveled around 2;500 miles on busi-
ness connected with his office. He has been
working hard on the Home-coming celebra-
tion, and is preparing a list of class presi- |
dents, and sent several lists of classes’ to|
alumni requesting them.

STUNY NIGHT

(Continued from page 1)
five late dance hits with probably a saxaphone
solo.

The Quartet, consisting of D. M. Calhoun,
John Foster, John McRae, and Bill Green,
will make one, possible two appearances.
This is practically the same quartet that re-
ceived much applausé last year. The Mando-
lin and _Guitar—Club, consisting of a guitar,
two mandolins and a ukelele, played by Proe
Thompson, Dick Kane, Tom Jones, and
Roger Womack, respectively, will render

2. Quartet.

3. Dramatic Club.

4. Symphony Orchestra, |

5. Glee Club.

6. Mandolin and Guitar Club.
7. Ed Wilson and H. R. Mobley.
8. Sophomore Stunt. |

9. Glee Club.

10. Freshman Stunt.

11. Jazz Orchestra.

12. Senior Stunt.

13. Oh Davidson.

TIGERS SMOTHER WILDCATS |

(Continued from page 1)

Last fall the Virginia Presbyterians brought
a much underrated team to Wearn Field, and
when the fray was over the Davidson team
was glad to claim a tie. This season, how-
ever, no one under-rated the ability of the
Hampden-Sidney wrecking crew, for they
had tied Virginia and held V. P. I, three
quarters.

In the latter stages of the game, the Da-
vidson quarter, finding that his backs could
gain but little through the Tigers’ stone-wall
line, ordered’ passes continually in a desper-

Davidson: Mitchell for Laws; Harrison |
for Sappenfield; Pinckney for Bohannon;
Wilson for Harrison; Nisbet for Farrell ;
J. Grey for Boggs; Maulden for Lincoln;
Kell for Wells; S. Black for Kell; Laws for
Mitchell; Bohannon for Pingkney ; Farrell |
for Nisbet; Boggs for J. Grey; Lincoln for
Maulden; Kell for S. Black; Nisbet for Far- |
rell; J. Grey for Boggs; McGeachy for Ar- |
rowood; Wells for Kell; Kell for Nisbet; |
Sims for McConnell; S. Black for Kell; Bo- |
hannon for McGeachy.

Scoring touchdowns: Edmunds and Atkins. |

Officials: Izzard (W. and L.), referee; |

Lance Quality Products
Delivered same day made.

LANCE PACKING COMPANY

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

All dealers

ate effort to score. For a time, late in the
third quarter, it looked as if the Wildcats
would push across a counter, but muffed sig-
nals snuffed out all chances for a score and
the ball went to Hampden-Sidney. In the
drive, Davidson had taken the ball in mid-
field, due to an exchange of punts, and
through a pass, Grey to Wells, had carried
the oval to the 25-yard line. A pass failed,
but the opponents! were off-side, and on the
next play Grey tossed the ball to Arrowood,
who tore down the side line and across the
goal, but stepped out of bounds on the one-
yard marker. A line play failed to put the
ball across and on the next play came the
miscue referred to above. This was the only
real threat made by the Wildcats.
Hampden-Sidney’s second score was the re-
sult of an excellent passing attack. Taking
the ball on the 45-yard line, the Tigers in-
stigated an over-head game that ended in a
15-yard heave to Atkins, who paced the re-
maining feet to the goal line. Dick Grey
blocked the attempted point.

Shining brightly from the galaxy of Tiger
Stars, were Richardson and Atkins and Pal-
mer. The first named warrior did not enter
the contest until late in the game, but proved
his worth on several occasions. Atkins, who
came so near wrecking Davidson’s hopes last
autumn, played brilliant ball throughout.

Dick Grey, with a 45-yard dash in the
early part of the game, and who played con-
sistently good ball throughout, and Bohan-
non, take the honors for Davidson. “Bo,”
who had played a good game at tackle while
Lincoln was hurt, was back at his old posi-
tion, end. In the closing seconds of play he

snagged a pass for a 40-yard gain only to

Selby Ice Cream Co.

GOOD
ICE CREAM

Statesville, N. C,

wee

even the price

$35 to $50

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

The first man up, in any dormi-

tory, wears the Braeburn - to be
a-step-ahead the rest of the day.

He knows that everything about
Braeburn is exclusively collegiate -

MELLON’S

W. E, PRICE

30 W. 5th St.

W.E. PRI

CE INSURANCE AGENCY

“PROTECTION PLUS SERVICE”

R. L. PRICE

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

