THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 13, 1926

FIVE SHINING LIGHTS IN CAROLINA’S GRID GALAXY

&

The fan who looks with pessimism on
Carolina’s chances to attain gridiron fame in
the future should take a glance at the five
players above, whose performances in behalf
of the Tar Heels this season has made his-
tory for the University. They are, reading
from left to right: Captain “Red” Whis-

nant, powerful Tar Heel guard, playing his
He is
one of Carolina’s most consistent players,
Next to Whis-
nant is “Bunn” Hackney, veteran Tar Heel
field general, whose educated toe has more
than once brought victory to his teammates.

last year on the University eleven.

and a marvel on the defense.

He is also captain of Carolina’s Southern
championship basketball team for the coming
season. The fellow who looks as if he would
send the pigskin sailing through the cross-
bars, is none other than “Red” Ellison, who
has been converted into a triple-threat man

by the Carolina coaches. He is said to be

able to kick, run and pass with equal ease
and ability. This is his first year on the
varsity squad. The giant, who stands next
to Ellison, is Harry Schwartz, who two years
ago won all-southern prep honors as a mem-

Last fall, while playing at center for the

Carolina rats, he was mentioned for all-Con- |

ference Freshman honors. The last gentle-

man on the right is Garrett Morehead, for-
mer Charlotte High team-mate of Schwartz,
who bids fair to take the place in the eyes of
fans that was held last year by big George

ber of the Charlotte High School team.) Robinson, Morehead, playing his second

year on the Tar Heel varsity, prepped at
Woodberry Forest School.

REMINISCENC

ES OF AN OLD TIMER

Did you see the Carolina game last year?
Say, young fellow, don’t try to get fresh
with me. They call me Old Timer, but I’m
right there when it comes to getting to all the
Davidson-Carolina games. Why, I haven’t
missed a game in 12. years, and’ this—but
wait, and I'll start where the beginning be-
gins and tell you the whole story.

I can recollect way back in 1914, when men
were menacing and boys were boisterous. I
happened to be in Winston-Salem on October
31. Yep, I’ was working then, selling chew-
ing tobacco as a side line, but my main occu-
pation was chewing it. Well, a buddy of
mine had two’ tickets to the game, so I had
to go, ‘cause I didn’t want one of ’em to go
to waste. This was the first game I had ever
seen, but was it the last? Not on your life,
for when I saw the Wildcats fight, fight,

has ever had,” as it was then called, to a
blank score in the first half, I knew there
was something besides brawn that was car-

rying them on. The same spirit that carried
those boys aes that game has stuck

with me for al these years{/ That game was
as pretty a fight as I’ye ever seen, and
though we were “out-scéred, we were not

out-played, not by a long shot. And when
McKinnon would get off one of his 60-yard
punts, I though that old pigskin would never
come to earth again.

Well, the next year, I just happened to
be, accidentally on purpose, in Winston-Salem
again when we played Carolina. Though the
same Davidson spirit and “pep” that had
fought the same team as valiantly the year

the light lirie. .And would you have ever
dreamed that the little right end of the Wild-
cat line was déstined to become head coach
of Davidson athletics within the next ten
years? Whether you would have dreamed it
or not, the right end who caught a forward
pass and ran 15 yards on the second play of
the game with the Tar Heels on November
| 13, 1915, was Monk Younger himself. This
| was only his freshman year.in Davidson, but
| he made four varsity letters.

Now comes the sad chapter of my story.
Undeserved defeat is extra bitter. And in
1916, the Wildcats certainly deserved a win

| fought, out-played, out-guessed, and out-

| classed the, University of North Carolina in

and not a defeat. Although Davidson out- |

gained 252 yards in scrimmage, to 175 gained
by Carolina, made 15 first downs to 7 made
by Carolina, and completed 3 out of 5 at-
tempted passes, while the Tar Heels com-
pleted only 1 out of 5. But old Dame For-
tune decided that to have its team defeat
Carolina and to have Woodrow Wilson re-
elected to the presidency of the United States
| was too much to allow Davidson within the
| limits of one week. But the Tar Heels were
| evidently becoming frightened at the Wild-
| cats, for in 1917 Carolina did not put out a
| team. :

| But in 1918 the Wildcats avenged them-
selves by snatching the state championship
title from the Tar Heels in an exciting game
at Winston-Salem. And who could be the

before were there throughout the entire|every department of the annual game in| star of this game but the well-known L.

game, it was to no avail,

|

The superior | Winston-Salem, the final score was 10-6,| Richardson, one of the donors of the Rich-

fight, and hold “the best team that Carolina | weight and experience proved too much for | with Davidson at the wrong en.. Davidson | ardson Field and Stadium).which are to be

—____,__

SIXTY-FOUR MEN PLEDGED |

| ley, Reidsville, N. C.; Allan Wilson, Mon-
: i, | treat, N. C.
Ray) (Continued from page 1) | Pi Kappa Alpha—J. B. Brawley, Durham,
W. C. Kirkland, Fitzgerald, Ga.; C.-C. Orr, | N. C.; Z. V. Long, Statesville, N. C.; W. R.
Asheville, N. C.; B. M. DeArmond, Char- | Hill, Statesville, N. C.; B. Arrington, San-
lotte, N. C.; T, Russel Newnan, Atlanta, Ga. | ford, Fla.; J. B. Matthews, Rock Hill, S. C.;
Phi Gamma Delta—R. F. Jarratt, San An- | Allen O'Neal, Bainbridge, Ga:; Nat Hunt,
tonio, Texas; William Dobbins, Selma, Ala.; | Lexington, N. C.; Nelson Hodgins, Greens-
R, Murray Christian, Mobile, Ala.; T. W.| boro, N. C.; J.-L. McNair, Laurinburg,
Brohard, Grafton, W. Va.; Howard R. Mob-| N. C.

appropriately dedicated before the Carolina-
Davidson game Saturday. In the game of
1918, L. Richardson scooped up a fumble and
ran 60 yards for the only score of the game.

I’ve got to hurry on—but say, I can’t keep
from saying a word about the game in 1920,
when “Gig” Shepherd raced 25 yards around
left end for a touchdown, winning lasting
honors and praise of Davidson students and
supporters,

And .now the time has come when there
are no outstanding scores made by Carolina
over the Wildcats. The outcome of every
game is doubtful, because there is always a
scrap between the Wildcats and Tar Heels,
and every member on each team is out for
blood.

The game Saturday? It is certaintly go-
ing to be a scrap, but you'd better watch
those fighting Wildcats!

Pi Kappa Phi—John Womack, Reidsville,
N. C.; Pet Boyd, Warrenton, N. C.; Bob
Croombs, Maxton, N. C.; Murphy McKin-
non, Maxton, N. C.; Billy Best, Goldsboro,
N. C.; Scot Brown, Chattanooga, Tenn.; Doc
Kugler, Washington, N. C.

S. A. E—Slaton Clemmons, Columbus,
Ga.; Lawson Necl, Thomasville, Ga.; L. A.
Mills, Greenville, S. C.; A. L. Mills, Green-
ville, S. C.; S. R. Coker, Hartsville, S.C.

Theta Upsilon Omega—R. W. Kirkpatrick, | Brown, Cleveland, N. C.; L. C. Roberts,
Anderson, S. C.; V. A. Milton, Thomasville, | Shelby, N. C,
Ga.; R. W. McDermid, Charleston, S. C.;| Pyramid Club—Mac Robinson, Charlotte,
S. W. Morris, Greenville, Miss.;.J. C. Allen,' N. C.; Ham Pettus, Asheville, N. C.; John
Addison, Ky. | Knox, Liberty, S. C.; John McInnis, Con-
Delta Theta Chi—Charles Pratt, Louis-| cord, N. C.; Tom Morgan, Mebane, N. C.;
ville, Ky.; John Stork, Louisville, Ky.; Louis | Fred Hamrick, Rutherfordton, N. C.; Ed
Lee Barr, Greenville, S. C.; B. C. Kilgore, | Close, Chattanooga, Tenn.
Paducah, Ky.; J. L. Smith, Dunn, N. C.; J.;. Sigma Delta—Langdon C. Hubbard, Fay-
T. Matthews, Washington, D. C.; J. A. (Continued on page 8)

BOUTON

TOTO UO TOOT

THE 4 FOUR-SQUARE STORES

DRY GOODS AND NOTIONS
SHOES AND HOSIERY
HARDWARE AND STOVES
FURNITURE AND FLOOR COVERINGS
FANCY AND STAPLE GROCERIES »
FUNERAL DIRECTORS

M. H. GOODRUM ®& CO.

CAC NGC NCCC NCCC VO/NOL

axle!

Wa

\ivavitvaNl

Taxiivax

ANNAN aNieNiraviianiexin

