- + “SHE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 9, 4926 _ - eppeeemiaes

DR. MARTIN ATTENDS

(Continued from page 1)

Dean Felts of Peabody School, Nash-
ville, Tenn., read a paper on “College |
Marking Systems.” This was a study of | The students and townspeople of Davidson
grades given students in colleges” that! were recently favored by a visit rom Wil-
are members of the Southern Associa- | liam Mack Lee, faithful bodyguard and cook
tion. His paper was a most interesting | of Gen. Robert E. Lee. The old negro gave
and suggestive one. The opinion of the/a very interesting talk in Shearer Hall to a
speaker was that the grades given in} fairly large sized audience. He was .deco-
college are too high. The committee of | rated with medals all across the front of his
which Dean Felts is chairman was con-| coat, and on his back he wore a pennani
tinued and was asked to make, further) bearing the name and a piciure of General
study of the matter. Lee, whom he declared he “carried not on);

The Executive Committee brought in aon his back, but in his heart also.”
report modifying the action of the As-
sociation at last year’s meeting in Char-|‘“Marse Bob” was here, and the only thing
leston, S. C,,-concerning athletics. The} he had to worry about was to carry out his
body decided to lay down general prin-| wishes. He lamented the fact that the
ciples in regard to the management of|negroes of today are. not as humble and
athletics and not to devise detailed gov- | obedient as they used tobe, and warned his
erning rules. The latter action was left | audience that this is a “white man’s country”
to the various regional athletic asso-| and that “the Good Lord never intended for
ciations, ; |any nigger to rule.” He said that there are

The conference was well attended, with | many negroes today who would be better off
schools holding membership being rep- | with a good old master to take care of them,
resented. Dean Jack, of Emory Uni- | instead of having to wander around hungry
versity, Atlanta, Ga., was elected presi- | and perhaps cold and out of work.
dent for the ensuing year and Jackson-| Lee told something about his life since the
ville, Fla., was selected as the meeting | death of his master. He recited a number
place for 1927. Millsaps College and Cen- | of cities through which he has wandered and
tral High School, both of Jackson, and| where he has made talks. Since the war, he

| has become a licensed minister as well as a

ICTORY
THEATRE

MOORESVILLE N.C.
Monday---Going Crooked, a Fox|

production,

Tuesday---Altars of Desire, with
Mae Murray.

Wednesday---The Cat’s Pajamas,

a Paramount picture.

Thursday---For Alimony Only,
with Leatrice Joy.

Friday---Pals First,, a First Na-
tional picture.

Saturday---30 Below Zero, with
Buck Jones.

speaker, and has been the pastor of and has
built up several churches.

At or near the close of his address, Lee
stated that he had some papers telling of his
life which he was selling to Democrats for
50 cents and to Republicans for $2.00. This

his life and also of some of his experiences
during the war. It is a very interesting pa-
per, and is the source of Lee’s income, part
of which, he declares, goes to the support
and upbuilding of one of his churches.

dinner on Thursday evening at Millsaps
College. The business meeting of the
evening was held afterwards in the au-
ditorium of that institution. The Jack-
son Chamber of Commerce and the citi-
zens of that city rendered every assist-
ance possible to make the visit one of
profit and pleasure. The conference was
generally adjudged to have been a very
successful one, and with that opinion in
the minds of the delegates, adjourned
until 1927.

DAVIDSON THEATRE

“WHERE YOU SEE THE BIG ONES”

Mon. and Tues., 13th and 14ch

Milton Sills in the Silent Lover

Wed. and Thurs.. 15th and 16th

W.C. Fields in So’s Your Old Man
Friday, 17th

Bebe Daniels in Stranded in Paris

Saturday, 18th
-Peter the Great in Wild Justice

Warner’s

Broadway Theatre

WHERE QUALITY MEETS

THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY, Dec. 16, 17, 18

COLLEEN MOORE

---[N---

TWINKLE TOES

They’re Calling it the Greatest Role
Colleen Ever Had--Twinkletoes”---
The Golden Headed Little Lover
of Limehouse, Who Will Dance
Her Way Into Your Heart!

Lee spoke of the “good old days” when his |

paper carries a picture of Lee, and tells of |

|

Aged Negro Speaks Alumni Secretary Makes
_ to Large Audience Rounds of Associations

Milton Visits Alumni in Raeford,
Fayetteville, Wilmington, and
Gastonia

During the past week the alumni secretary

of Davidson College made his most success- |

He organized two
and
formed

ful trip of the season.

alumni associations,, reorganized one

visited another. Associations were
at Raeford and Fayetteville on Wednesday
and Thursday nights respectively, one re-
organized at Wilmington on Friday night,

‘and a visit was made to an alumni banquet

meeting in Gastonia on Saturday night.

The meeting at Raeford was in the form
a Turkey Banquet meeting, at which
eleven Davidson men were present, almost
100 per cent of the alumni there. "Dr. W. M.
Fairly, class of ‘95, was clected president ;
Ryan McBryde, ‘11, vice-president, and J.

of

|W. Currie, '04, seerctary and treasurer. On

the following morning the alumni secretary
spoke to the Raeford High School and
named the accomplishments of-Raeford boys
at Dayidson.

On Thursday night, in Fayetteville, T. W.
Rankin, ’09, was host to 18 Davidson men at
a banquet in the Prince Charles Hotel. Mr.
Rankin was elected president of the associa-
tion. Dr. J. A. Shaw, 19, was eleeted vice-
president, and W, B. Jennings, '26, secretary

and treasurer, This association at Fayette-

ville voluntarily sent a wedding present to
Coach “Tex” Tilson to express their appre- |

ciation for his work at Davidson.

There was no banquet meeting at Wilming-
ton, but there was an enthusiastic gathering

at the Chamber of Commerce rooms. J. E.
Evans, 10, was” re-elected president; EK. T.
Huggins, '24, vice-president, and J. D.

Mississippi College of Clinton, united in| Howell, '20, was re-elected secretary and
the entertainment of the association at| treasurer.

At Fayetteville.and Wilmington resolutions

for the publicity they gave Davidson this
year, which was of quite a comprehensive
nature.

At the’ banquet meeting at Gastonia, elec-
tions were held for the coming year. S. A.
Robinson, '99, was elected president; R. E.
Boggs, '25, vice-president, and H. A. Query
was re-clected secretary after three years as
an officer in the Gastonfa association. The
association wired congratulations and best
Coach “Tex” Tilson, who

wishes to was

‘|}married last Saturday.

All of the meetings were full of enthusi-
asm and it was shown that Davidson College
is becoming an important factor in the lives
of numerous influéntial business men of the
state. Many prominent men were present at
these meetings, most notable of whom were
J. W. McLaughlin, ’74, at Raeford, and G. D.
Bellamy, '73, at Wilmington. They were
classmates of Woodrow Wilson and they re-
lated some of theif college experiences.

At all of the meetings considerable refer-
ence was made to the success of the 1926
Davidson football team. At Wilmington the
alumni are trying to schedule the Davidson-
Citadel game to be played in ‘the stadium
there next year.

DAVIDSONIAN ALL-STATE
TEAM

Here is The Davidsonian All-State
football team, as chosen by a com-
posite vote of all members of the staff.
In many instances, The Davidsonian
pick is similar to the composite all-
state team, chosen by sport writers
throughout the state.

First Team

End—Murray ~------------ Carolina
Tackle—Thompson »..--------- Duke:
Guard—Boggs ~-------____ Davidson
Center—McConnell ~-----_ Davidson
Guard+-Whisnant ~--.-___-- Carolina
Tackle—Emmerson --. Wake Forest
End—Pinkney ~--------_-- Davidson
Quarter—Rackley __-__ Wake Forest
Half—Grey -...-......._- Davidson
Half—McDowell ~.--------__ State

Fullback—Spurlock -.. Lenoir-Rhyne
Second Team

End—Bohannon .__.-----_- Davidson
Tackle—Morehead _________ Carolina
Guard—Jones ~_____- ---- Duke
Center—Schwartz rolina
Guard—Nicholson ~--...-.-___ State
Tackle—Ritchie -.....____ Davidson
End—Riley ~__-.____. Wake Forest
Quarter—Wilson Davidson
Half—Young --_--___--_-_. Carolina
Half—Ober -.________ Wake Forest
Fullback—Outen -_.-.--.--_-. State

were passed thanking the newspapers there |

|
t

Literary Societies

Philanthropic Society

The regular meeting, number 5,527 of the

Philanthropic Literary Society, was called to
_order by the retiring president, C. G. Davis.
The vice-president then conducted the presi-
dent-elect to the chair. . The new president,
Bill Covington, took the oath of office and
received the gavel of authority.

The incoming president then undertook to
deliver his inaugural address before his fel-
low members.
ed on each member to do his part and thereby
gain the greatest possible results in the lit-
erary

In his talk the president call-

line. He then proceeded with the
regular program which had been planned.

The society returned this year to a former
plan, which has worked well this year. The
freshmen that affiliated themselves with this
society were formed into. a junior society,
which was,separate from the senior society
It was at
this meeting that the freshmen became full-
fledged’ members of the senior society, by
Twenty-
two members were added to the roll.

The regular debate was between: the fresh-

and met on Tuesday evenings.
being admitted to its membership.

men and the members of the senior society;
on the following question, “Resolved, That
the Volstead Act should be modified so as to
permit the sale of light wines and_ beers.”

The freshman team, composed of Neal, Prit-
chett, and Williams triumphed over the senior

team of experienced debaters, composed of

Wallace, O'Neal, and Powell, by the decision
;of four to one. The first critic in his report
commended the work ability the
freshmen and remarked. oftheir chances to
win the Fresh-Soph debate next spring.

The committees had no special reports to
make. The first critic announced that the
|next meeting would be a trial. Bill Coving-
|ton, the new president, is to be tried for de-
| stroying property, that is, breaking a girl's
|heart. On the strength of this statement the
| society moved and adjourned.

Pandenic Society _
The debate on the Refunding of Taxes re-
| ceived a negative at the regular
meeting of the Pandeinic Society on last
Thursday evening. Kirkpatrick and McAlIpin
argued for the affirmative, while Nunan and
Graham upheld the negative.

T. E. Hill gave the Current Events, dis-
cussing briefly the important issues of the
day.

All members were warned that in the fu-
ture all fines are to be stgictly enforced.
| Eumanean Society

Christian and Davidson won the regula’
debate in the Eumenean Society .on» last
Thursday evening, for the affirmative, over
Ogden and Dumas, of the negative, after
much heated discussion on the part of both
sides, ;

The vote of the house was for cancelling
the debts prior to the date of September
Ist. Martin gave the Current Events of the
past week.

As only a small number of the members
| Were present at the last meeting, the secre-
tary thinks it best to remind the members
that the time of meeting has been changed
to seven-fifteen.

GLEE CLUB GOES

and of

decision

have to remain at home.

A trip to Rock Hill is on, the schedule
|for the club on December 17th. This
performance will be given in the Rock
Hill High School auditorium. This con-
cert is being staged mainly through the

| (Continued from page 1)

L|efforts of D.G. Wilson, president of last

year’s club.

All the arrangements for the spring
tour of the Glee Club have not been com-
pleted yet, but plans are afoot to treat
the boys to a visit to all the leading
girls’ tolleges in Virginia next spring
when the annual tour will be made.

|
|
|
|
!
|
|
|

NORTH CAROLINA GAMMA

(Continued from page 1)

they express the normal social instinct
of youth. After all, it is the coming-to-
gether or ‘gang instinct’ that is largely
responsible for this great array of clubs.
Add to the ‘gang instinct,’ the romance
of secrecy, and you have all the elements
that make the fraternities and clubs sur-
vive.

“Students are forever splitting them-
up Why
they not put this interest into Biology
or Chemistry classroom? The student
would never submit to that—he must
join with a few fellows, and exclude all
others. No must know what he
thinks, what: he does. or where he goes.

selves into science clubs. do

one

“What are we doing? We are taking
care of personalities, we are segregating
the men whose interest lie in one direc-
tion lie
another. Literary societies and science
classes won't do any longer.
life anywhere except in the classroom.

from those whose interests in

It's college

“Mind you, I do not oppose the estab-
lishment of these clrbs or groups. IT am
a member of some of them myself. I
wish there’ were more of them.

“And after that, there comes along the
most, gallant, the most courageous and
seemingly the most important activity, of
them all—college athletics. It comes with
the romantic glamor of the Crusades, and
the whole student body follows after it.
There is no use in anyone trying to indict
students for: their superlative, all-con-
suming interest in athletics. It na-
tural, and if a student is not interested,
the others will drive him out. The real
live interest of the college is in its clubs
and in its athletics.

“The primary of college
not this vivid and vital and bubbling col-
lege life as it now exists, and the least-
wise .of us knows that when he thinks.
The heart and soul of the college is not
the activities that shout.

is

purpose is

Four students, nine alumni, and one
honorary member were initiated into
membership by the Davidson chapter
Friday evening. The four students
initiated into membership by the David-
son chapter Friday evening. The four
students initiates are: W. A. Christian,
of Mobile, Ala.; W. T. Covington, of
Raeford, N. C.; W. S. Woods, of Soochow,
China; and H. M. Austin, of Larado,
Texas.. The nine alumni members _ in-
cluded: Messrs. Thornton Whaling,
Louisville, Ky.; J. D. Nisbet, New York
City; S. H: Edmunds, Sumter, S. C.;
George Howard, Salisbury, N. C.; J. W.
Moore, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Andrew
W. White, Charlotte, N. ©; W. A. Mc-
Ilwaine, Japan; and L. H. Smith, of
Easley, S. C.

Dr. W. S. Rankin, of Charlotte, N. C.,
former president of the State Health
Officers of the U. S., and at this time ad-
ministrator of the J. B. Duke Founda-
tion for Hospitals and Orphanages, was
elected and initiated into honorary mem-
bership in the fraternity.

LAST CALL

This is the last notice to the mem-
bers of the class of 1927 to get their
Senior Biographies in for the Quips
and Cranks. “These should be 150
words in length, e&ch man being re-
sponsible for his own “write-up” get-
ting in to the annual staff.

These should be placed in the annual
box in the lobby of Georgia Dormitory.

Last call is also given to the mem-
bers of the two upper classes to post
their honors in the same box.

DON WHARTON, Editor.

Fe= ——

a

~ The Place to buy your Christmas Goods is
Moore’s Tire & Sporting Goods Shop

. Mooresville, N. C.

We have all kinds of sporting goods,
such as footballs, and basketballs.

We also have bicycles and tricycles of

all kinds.
Come Here and Do Your Shopping for the Whole Family |

}

