4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 31, 1926

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as “Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: |
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

_ SENIOR CLASS EDITION

STAFF
ERNEST MILTON

ROLAND PARKER BOYCE MARTIN

KELSEY REGEN GLENN EDDINGTON

FRED SMITH WADE ALLISON
HAROLD BURKE (Manager)

CLASS OFFICERS e

Senior Class
Roland B. Parker__-.----------
David G. Wilson_.
Robert W. Graves-
W. Ernest Milton.--
C. Frederi¢k Smith .--.---.---.-

Junior Year
Hatry, Die Sniws.o.cccccsbeee
Bertie T. Crayton_-
Thomas S. Lawson-_-.....-.---
Sophomore
Thomas S. Baker-_.----
Chester F. Monk-..
*. Kelsey Regen .._.. 2.

--President
Jice-President
y- Treasurer
-Historian
sleds Poct

President
ce- President
-Treasurer

Gveare President
»-President
- Treasurer

-President
e- President
-Treasurer

EDITORIAL.

F
Nevin E, Pye ato aes
Alex. L. McMillan_...-
Clarence E. Houston...

IN MEMORIAM

JOHN STODGHILL McNAIR

JOHN WRIGHT MILLER

FRANK REYNOLDS HUDSON

At this, our graduation, the last time that

we shall all meet together, we pause to pay
loving tribute to the memory of these three
boys. They were taken from us by a divine
Providence, in
young manhood.

the full bloom of glorious

Their lives promised much. As loyal and
devoted friends they made the lives of those
with) whom they much
brighter by their being; as worthy students,
they furthered the name and purpose of the
college; as consecrated Christian characters,
they influenced others for good.

As the years roll by, as the members of
our class pass one by one into the great be-
“-yond, we shall hold dear the memory of
these three whom we loved as fellow-class-
maes and friends.

were associated

REMINISCENCES

As the twilight shadows of June 2 quietly
encircle the venerable walls of old Chambers
or entwine themselves in the stately elms
which bedeck the old campus, ninety-one
men who have earned the titte, “alumni”
will watch the fading tints in the west as
they think of the sadness of farewell, the
separation, perhaps eternal, from heart-
friends together with more exhilarating.
prospects.

Memories of the rollicking pleasure of
°22-'23, when- acquaintances were more or
less superficial, when cares of the class room
largely smothered out the birth of associa-
tion will come, Yet, even then, each of us
laid the foundations of those future intima-
cies which were to be the crowning glory of
college. :

Perhaps the circle of comrades widened
during the hectic days of sophdom ; certainly
the finer of them deepened immeasurably
and sweetened the otherwise flat currents of
our prosaic existences. Possibly the bull
sessions on the portico of old Georgia, three
o’clock examination, cramming in the chap-
ter hall, or a week-end “Y” deputation have
revealed the unsuspected attractions of a
noble and congenial soul.

We found the junior days each packed
with a wealth of the essence of college
friendship. Here the camaraderie of the
first two years. assumed definite shape. No
longer does one puzzle over the person of
his fellow-bummer on his expedition to Con-
verse or to the Carolina game. With quiet
nonchalance we ignored or forgot the horror
of books and spent rich hours in bull ses-
sions or long bridge games. Yet there were
many moments, perhaps on the council or in
the case of vital crises as regards student
body policies in which we joined hands on
the more serious things and found each oth-
er made of sterner stuff than we had dream-
ed; and virility thus strengthened and solid-
ified association. In rare moments we pos-
sibly yielded to the lure of the open and tak-

The permanent officers of the class of 1926. Reading left to right: W. E.”
Milton, Historian; R. W. Graves, Secretary-Treasurer; R. B. Parker, President;
D. G. Wilson, Vice-President, and C. F. Smith, Poet.

ing a choice pal spent a boyish night at the
gullies.

, Then came Seniordom, the heyday of it
all. Each member of the old class has his
niche in our_hearts. We no longer looked
for. the O. D. K. or the Phi Beta Kappa key,
but for the soul. It is the intangible spirit
engendered by nondescript midnight bull
sessions on “Evolution,” or “Divorce” or
“God” or a secret session under the china-
berry tree. We catch glimpses of big souls,
sincere souls, golden souls, when the mask
of frivolity and camaraderie has been tem-
porarily cast aside. We gaze thereupon
with that evanescent thing which “surpass-
eth the love of women.”

Rudely we are awakened by the dying of
the last pale tint and remember that these
are only memories, are gone, that the holiest
of friendships have been relegated to the
motherly arms of ‘tender but incompetent
memory. A tear perhaps, a sigh, a tug on
the profoundest heart strings and we realize
that we must forget.

Forget? No, but these poignant heart
throbs must retire to the mystic abode of
reminiscence whence they may wander
again, but briefly, in those sad yet sacred
moments when we shall forget for a poetic
instance the drab circumstance of alumni-
dom and gloat over the shadowy beauties of
yester years.

Then we realize that Hille was. inspired
when he colorfully exclaimed :

“Like the rays of the dying sun
The memories: of departed friends fall
Sadly yet softly upon the heart.”
—ROLAND PARKER.

SENIOR SUPERLATIVES

This list was compiled by a committee of
representative underclassmen, As the list
indicates, several ties resulted, because of
the absence of one member of the commit-
tee. Probably every senior will disagree
with one or more of the selections, but taken
in its entirety, it is fairly suggestive of stu-
dent opinion:

Most popular in student body- -Tom Baker

Most popular with faculty-------_-_ Kelsey Regen

OSE GUD OLIKE Roland Parker

Friendliest, Woodrow Wilson, » Roland Parker,
Buster Lawson. red

3est athlete---_--.-____ Flake Laird, Harry Vance
Most stholarlysce- 2226-2 oe eens C, E. Houston
Most brilliant--_---___ Hamp Lawson; Buck Shaw
SMP eM Bob Graves
NGAtGS toe Stee Se eae Joe Garrison
3054 GS dG ae sues Oe rs Litch Huie

Most powerful in student body—
Hayden Hollingsworth

Bestcdthba ten a2 ea Yancey Bowie
Boye (OVENS Hayden Hollingsworth
Most honors_-------.--.----------Roland Parker
Mogg carefree Hamp Lawson
Noah beanie 2 __--W.. L. Baker
NOStHSINGGhesees oss a ee Tom Barr
Most versatile writer__..-----_______- Fred Smith
Most brilliant writer---_--._________ Wood Brown
Ablest-journalist--..--..2.--... _..-Ernest Milton
WOUnN geste Mbt as Charlie Bragaw.
Oldest__-_-_.- .-Lin Deck
Most shigkishi ses Siete 2 a Ed O'Neal
Most dependable Wade Allison
Most punctual_____-_________ -Count Davis
MOS te fat 1 Gal lester ea Wood Brown
Most conservative._---__-__________ J. M. Appleby
Best conversationalist---__._---_---___ Flake Laird
Most modestos:___2..5. 4-2 t-. Glenn Eddington
Ablest politicianes==2sssssessseossseeee Buck Shaw
3est business’ man_--__--_------__- Walter Lynch
Most earnest=22222—- 22 see Forest Franklin
Hardest worker Lin ,Deck
Best looking-------_-____/ Alf Robinson, Ed O’Neal
Most humorows-____-_ Speight Adams, Flake Laird
Brettiés tise s2oe co oP ae Brooks Sloan
Premier Aesthete_--.------_____ George Shaddock
Most: amiableisi2o) sesh Martin Teague
Most masculine_-----_--_-_-_-____. Red Anderson

MEew recuse coos ee ase Abe Kugler

al

GREETINGS

Mothers and fathers, sweethearts and sis-
ters of ’26 we welcome you to old Davidson.
At this hour when we sever those ties which
are interwoven in the finest fibres of our
souls, it is you ‘who will make the passing
brighter—you who will soften the sepera-
tion always, perhaps, from college pals. Nor
do we forget the part which each of you has
played in making possible the joys of college
life. af ‘

May these venerable elms silvered by the
soft glow of the moon or the melancholy
rays of the dying sun, these old buildings so
poignant with traditions and memories of
the Old Davidson of the past become cher-
ished memories in your hearts also.

Once, again, our commencement visitors,
we more than welcome you,

ROLAND PARKER,
President Class 1920.

GLIMPSES OF TOMORROW

Two from today and ninety-one students,
members of the class of 192%, will be stand-
ing upon the threshold of a new world, with
a panoramic view of the vista before them.
Each student has a different perspective—is
viewing it through a different lense? Each
one is looking t@Wward something different,
and are seeking after individual goals.

We will be christened men of the world
when the last name on the roll is called and
we slowly file out with our diplomas in our
hands. Bound up in the mere parchment up-
on which our names are written is a wealth
of meaning. Reading between the lines that
certifies you are now a graduate of David-
sor-College can be seen the hours of toil that
have been placed upon mathematics, Eng-
lish, philosophy, Bible, various language:
and other subjects.

Graduates we shall be declared. But grad-
vates only from an institution—a school
Awaiting us is a greater school. It is a
school that sees more failures than succes-
ses. It is a school that is not divided into a

four-year course, but is a school for a con-,

tinuous term of years—for life. It is not a
school which requires a certain number of
hours’ work each day, but is one which re-
quires incessant ‘and diligent toil, far into
the weary hours of night; when others have
been asleep for a long time.

We will not have a vacation of three
months in the summertime, in which to
while away our time listlessly and pleas-
urably. We will not be in a position to cal!
upon father for pecuniary assistance. We
are known as men now—men in the fuller
sense of the word. Many ‘have already

\ Three campus pictures

reached the required number of years to be
called a man, but in speaking of manhood
now, we are thinking of something greater
than implied in the completion of twenty-
one years of life.

That is the problem which each individual
person has to face today. We are all one
unit today; tomorrow we will be scatered
to almost endless places. Today we are
recognized as embodying the finest blood,
the best traditions, and the greatest. prin-
ciples. Tomorrow, what shall it be? Shall
we forget the things which we have been
taught—from our mother’s. knee, through
grammar school, through high school, and
through college? Shall we cast manhood
and decency to the. winds, and live a care-
free, shiftless life? Shall it be a life of
ignominy and ease?

On the other hand, we should remember
the first teachings, should spend time in
reminiscence, should look for the highest
and noblest things of life, remember always
that we have loved ones and ones who will
love, and live a life of steadiness, Gonsist-
ency, the good life, never swerving from the
path of right, not catering to the whims of
te passing moment, to the lure of the world
and its charms, but rather looking for the
best things of life on the side that seems
more drab and forsaken.

Contacts will be made with many people
in the years to come, They will learn that
you have graduated from the venerable in-
stitution of Davidson College. They will
know the principles which were inculcated

while you were a student here. They will be

expecting the best. Thus a responsibility is
entailed that should be felt and borne by
each student—each graduate of this class,
classes already gone, and those yet to come
Tt should always be the best in you that is
presented by your acts, for “by their works
ye shall know them.”

It was recently disclosed at a meeting of
the seniors that ’26 members will be station-
ed from South America to Niagara Falls.
from Texas to Massachusetts. Indications
re that members are going in for big things.
Some are looking toward still higher educa-
tion; others will give of their knowledge in
teaching; some efter professions; others
business, and almost every phase of life.
There will be times of discouragement:
there will be times of elation. In it all
should be a steadfast hope that you are at
least fulfilling the purpose for which you
were given lite, always remembering that
no duty done or light obtained in any most
obscure corner of life is wasted, that helps
to the perfect duty and perfect life that are
to be.

Thus, we are ready to begin another chap-
ter in our own lives—and the next chapter
is the most important. We could say that
the next. five years can constitute a chapter,
for it is these years that are to be the most
strenuous—when students are beginning to
get their start. Many have been anxious to
complete their courses to fight for them-
selves in the world. They will now be given
a chance to learn about their own resources,
their ability to stand alone. One writer has
said, “not until we can think for ourselves,
decide for ourselves, and act for ourselves
do we become more than infants in the
moral universe.”

According to that, we have largely been
infants so far. Childhood for the next. five

or ten years; young manhood for.the next
fifteen, and then mature manhood for the
rest of our lives—when life’s tasks will be
o’er and we're awaiting the call of the tired
and weary.

—ERNEST MILTON.

