THE DAVIE

FOR . A BETTER DAVIDSON |

Vol. XIV

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C, SEPTEMBER 30, 1926

SONIAN

No. 3

Boyce Martin Selected
As Chairman of Junior
Speaking Plans Tuesday

Wins Out Over Withers in Final
Ballot

VOTE IS CLOSE
No Lyceum Will Be Given This

ear—Money Will Be Raised
Elsewhere

In an election held last Tuesday morning, |

Boyce Martin was chosen by the Junior class

.as Chairman of the Junior Speaking Com- |
Martin won out over Withers by a |
single vote on the final ballot, the count being
41 to 40. -W. L. McColgan and W. L. Lingle |

mittee.

were also nominated for the position but |
were eliminated in the first round of: votes.
Martin is a leader in his class, being the |

incumbent of several responsible positions at |
He is a member of the Stu- |
dent Council, assistant managing editor of |
The Davidsonian, Junior basketball manager, |

the present time.

and a member of the Quips and Cranks staff.

|

STARS IN WILDCAT VICTORY

He is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon |

social fraternity.

The i ass has definitely ab: ; 4 aR .
e Junior class has definitely abandoned | the first touchdown of his college carcer in

the presentation of a Lyceum program as
given in past years. The main purpose of
these entertainments has been to raise money |
to help carry out the Junior Speaking pro-
gram and in this capacity they have com-
pletely failed, having never. produced more
than $25 or $50 during the whole season.

Some other entertainment is likely to be pre- |
sented, which will probably take the form of |

of the class would take part themselves.
Committees to aid in the production of
Junior Speaking have been appointed but

|the game with the Wofford Terriers last
Saturday, when he dashed 55 yards, through
the Wofford team after intercepting a for-

Joe McConnell, Wildcat center, who scored | candidate for all-state honors this season,

HONORARY BID DAY

The second Tuesday in October, the
12th day of the month, has been set
by the Honorary Faternity Council as

Bid Date for the honorary groups
comprising the Council. The men
elected at the fall membership elec-

tions in the several societies will re-
ceive their invitations the morning of
that day. The Biology Club has been
granted permission to bid at a date
some aveeks later, and exercising this
privilege, perhaps will not bid at this
time.

Three Seniors Elected
' to Publications Board

Branch, Wharton and Austin, Three
Editors of Publication, to be
Student Members

McConnell will be

ward

pass. a popular

Dr. Martin Discusses Need for Fund
in Interview With Davidsonian Reporter

No Definite Plan let For Expansion in
Near Future

PLEDGES UNPAID
Adequate Physical “end Biological
Laboratories Are the Greatest
Need at Present

In an interview Saturday with a represen-
tative of The Davidsonian, Dr. Martin stated
that the greatest need of the college at the
present was sufficiently large building
fund. The sources of such a fund, the presi-
dent added, were far from certain.

“At the our only in-
come for building are the pledges from the
The returns from such
pledges are indefinite to say the least,” de-
clared Dr. Martin, “and depend entirely on
the mood of the giver. It is only with a
large building fund that anything can be ac-
complished.” ~:

“No, there are no definite plans for ex-
pansion the future,”
the question regarding certain rumors cur-

a

present sources of

various campaigns.

for was the answer to

This is his third» year on the Davidson

See) He first came into prominence in the On Thursday morning the election for the
P. game two years ago as a substitute Press Bureau was run off between six men
center, nominated from the different publications of

the student body. The duty of this bureau

Class Basketball

their names are not available at the present Begins This Week

time:
appointed to serve on these committees.
The dates for Junior Speaking this year |
(Continued on page 3)

Wood Elected Geiste
‘Manager of Athletics

Popular Professor Succeeds Doctor
Douglas in Important Place on
Athletic Council

With the opening of the new year, Pro-
fessor Wood took over his duties as the grad-
uate manager of athletics at Davidson. He
has taken the place of Dr. J. M. Douglas,

who has been the graduate manager since the |
Professor Wood will |

creation of the office.
be known as the chairman of the Faculty

Committee on Athletics, in order that he may, |
attend all the meetings of the Athltic As- |

sociation.

Mr. McGill, who is with the office of the
Business Administration of the college, has
been appointed to assist Professor Wood with
the work of the committee, as its duties are
many and important. The chairman of this
committee helps the team managers in the

arrangement of the schedules, and has the |

supervision of all the games or contests |
staged by the college. It is also his duty to
be the treasurer of the association, and to
act as a member of the committee for the
appointment of coaches.

Professor Wood became a member of the |

faculty in 1916, and since that time has shown
an active interect in college athletics.
capable financier he will be of great advant-

age to the teams, and to the association, en- |
suring them of a successful season in that

elernent. He has evidenced-on-many occa-

sions his ability as an organizer, and is well | men will do.

prepared to continue the splendid work Dr.
Douglas has done for that branch of college
activity. Dr. Douglas has been indespensable

to the Athletic Association, and while it is |

known that Professor Wood will efficiently |
direct the work of the association, deep re-
gret is felt because of Dr. Perel, retire- |
} ——ment.- . “

. ° ‘
Approximately 30 Juniors have been |

As a}

Class Basketball, Under Direction of
Manager Carroll, Started Last
| Tuesday

The prospects this year are excellent for
The managers have been
| elected by the different classes, and the sched-
ule will start on the 4th. The teams will be
| coached by last year’s yarsity men who are
not out for football. Practice started Wed-
nesday in the gym with a good number of

| representatives from each class.

four good teams.

Last year the Sophomores, or the present,

Juniors, won the championship. It is logical
that this class should win, because none of
the Sophomores have an opportunity to make
the varsity team until after the class basket-
ball season is over, and thus this class: has
practically the team it had the year
before. This year, however, the Juniors and
Seniors promise to put up a hard fight, and
it looks like the Sophs will have to work
mighty hard to take off the honors,

| The Seniors have lost a good many of
| their last year’s men, but Calhoun and Wo-
| mack are back, and several other good men
showed up for practice the first part of the
| week. Anderson and-Simpson made varsity
| letters last year, and are therefore ineligible
for the class team this year. Keerans did
| not return to school this year.

The Juniors have McCaulay and Withers
back from last year, with several new men
out. Millner will probably be unable to play
| because of a bad knee. Ben Wilson will be
ineligible on account of making a varsity let-
ter last year.
| The Sophomores have,
| tions, their first team of last year.
failed to return to school,
other men are back.

‘It is too early to predict what the Fresh-
| They have several good men
out, and should be able to work up a good
| team,
| Coach Monk Maddox will again handle

same

with few excep-

| and will start his practices as soon as he has
| completed his work with the Freshman foot-

ball team. George Batte is’ manager of the
T Fresh team. ra

but most of the |

the training of the bt bginee basketeers,,

College Agitientties Gat Holiday to
_ Students Going to State College Game

a Junior Stunt Night, in which the members

Wenberg | band to the game on the special:

is to direct the activities of the three major
publications on the Hill and also to govern
jens minor ones, Each publication selects two
| nominees
were placed before the student body.
| six men chosen by the publications were:
W. H. Branch, Jr., of Atlanta, Ga.; B. IF.
Martin, of Atlanta, Ga., of The Davidsonian ;
H. M. Austin, of Laredo, ‘Texas; W. C,
Ogden, Mobile, Ala., of The Davidson
College Magasine joL. D. Wharton, of Smith-
field, N. C.; J. H. Hall, of Statesville, N.C.
fof the Quips and Cranke.
by the student body are the three editors of
the publications : Branch, Wharton and Aus-
tin. AlljOsSthese men are Seniors: and have
been in active literary work since their Iresh
man year,

The

Only Students ‘Attending Game Will
Be Excused

SPECIAL TRAIN

Train Will Leave Dav Davideon at 7:30
A. M. and Return From Raleigh
at 7:30 P. M.

The petition for a holiday tp be given to
all students attending the North Carolina
State game to be played at Raleigh, October

of

The three elected

This is Wharton's second year
!

14th, has been granted by the executive on the Bureau, All members are men of

committee, with provisions. the honorary literary fraternity, Delta Phi
It has been a custom in the past for the Kappa.

executive committee to grant a holiday of Of the student body present 287 ballots were

this kind cach year. The date for the holi- | cast. This does not include the Ireshmen,

day is chosen by a vote of the student body, as they are not considered a part of the stu-

and this year almost everyone was in favor dent body until after Christmas. The vote

of the day of the State game. ; stood: Austin, 216; Branch, 189; Wharap,
A bigger and better special is to be run) 186.

this year than ever before. Usually the rail- This board is authorized by article seven

road puts the oldest and most dilapidated o¢ the student body constitution. This ar-

coaches obtainable on these specials, but this
year larger and newer coaches and even a
shinier engine have been promised. From
the number who have promised to go on the

ticle reads as follows: There shall be chosen
annually a.body to be known as the Publi-
This board shall have com-

plete supervision over the financial adminis-

cations Board.

special, it will be well loaded with hearty tration of the three student publications, The
support for the Wildcats, Davidsonian, The Davidson College Maga-
A few modifications were made by the

sine, and the Annual.

executive committee to the petition as sub- |
mitted the student body. The special
train will leave Davidson about 7:00 a. m.,
October 14th, and will have to leave Raleigh
not later than 7:30 p. m. that night.
will be held regularly the day
game.

Only those who ride the
game will be excused from classes.

This board shall be composed of five mem-
three “students elected by the student
body and two faculty members appointed by
the college administration. The three student
members shall be elected from six nominees
—the staff of each publication nominating
Hy two of this number. The president of this
2 aaa a board shall be one of the student members

As last
: P - | and shall be elected at the first regular meet-
year, those who remain on the campus will | .

have to attend classes, so the holiday will not ing of the-board,
include thein at all.

Arrangements are being made to take the
Their ex-

by
bers,

Classes |

after the

The business managers of the above named
publications shall be appointed by and shall
be directly responsible to the Publications
Board. for the
{manager of each publication shall be sub-
mitted to the board by the staff of that pub-
lication.

Recommendations business

penses will be paid and they will be admitted
to the game merely on identification. The
tickets for the special will cost about six
dollars for the round trip.

There is some possibility that a special
train will be run to the P. C. game as was
done last year. If this is done class periods |
Saturday will be shortened five minutes so | This board shall meet at least once. every
that students may eat dinner at 1:00 o'clock | month, The business manager of each pub-
and leave at 1:30. The train would reach | lication shall be required to submit a com-
Rock Hill just in time for the game. Tick- | plete financial report at_ each, regular meeting

The board shall have the power to remove
from office any business manager who is
found to be incompetent or undesirable.

from its editorial staff and they

rent on the campus. “The general income
of the college and the Duke money’ will be
employed entirely in the improvement and
upkeep of the present plant. The Richard-
son Stadium is the only item on the building
program, unless other such splendid
gift is received.”

When asked about the work 6n the Fresh-—
man field, Dr. Martin said that it was classed
as an improvement to the plant. The .funds
for this work are from the general income
of the college and the Athletic Association.

“As money accumulates, what is the next
Is there@Sany possibility
of a new dormitory in the near future?” In
the president re-

some

|
|
|

building planned?

anSwer to these questions,
plied:

(Continued on page 2)

Dr. Oren Moore Speals:
at “Y” Vespers Sunday

Well Known Charlotte Physician
Speaks to Students on “The
Thing That Lasts”

Dr. Qren Moore, Charlotte, delivered
a very interesting address at the “Y”
services Sunday night. Dr. Moore is a grad-
ot and while a student here
was a member of the football team. He
well all men and has
appeared at the services betore.

‘ot
vesper
uate Davidson
is
known to Davidson

The subject of his talk was, “The Thing
That Lasts.” He began his address by pic-
turing the triumphant entrance the old
Roman canquerorgwith all their splendor,
Then he called attention to the law of the
Medes and Persians which was unchangeable

or

at the time, but today the splendor of the
Roman conquerors and the laws of the
Medes and Persians have been forgotten

and are only heard of in history. The cul-
ture of the Greeks and the glory of the old
Egyptian kings were used by the speaker as
another, example of the unstability of popu-
larity.

If all these things are: true, the speaker
asked the question, What is permanent? He
answered this question by the word, “Truth.”
He quoted the Bible—*Know the truth, and
the truth will make you free.” In knowing
the truth he said that the first thing neces-
sary was to know the truth about ‘yourself.
If a man is a physical coward, but has char-
acter, he proved by: an illustration of an
American soldier in France, who after faint-
ing at a slight wound, rescued eighteen men
from the wire entanglement, he can overcome
this weakness. Next, he said, “Know the
truth about the other fellow.” In knowing
the truth about the other fellow one is able
to judge the ability of the other man. The

“ets Woujd cost about a dollar and a half. [of the board.

(Continued on page 5)
