4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 14, 1926

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Panagine Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH.......-.-..--- Editor-in-Chief
HAROLD D. BURKE. Busi Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

Ww. Managing Editor
L. Assistant M. ing Editor
P. Assistant Managing Editor
Ww. Athletic Editor
R. B Associate Editor
A. Y. BOWITE.........-....---......--..-.---Associate Editor
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH. ---Associate Editor
GARNE McMILLAN... -Humorous Editor
J. BOWEBBrsss2eeesice ---Alumni Editor
F. K. BELL.

-Exchange Editor

Business Staff

Hic Dia BURR Biccsuscecccaccsusdeccucadcaues Business Manager
W. H. LYNCH As ant Business Manager
V. S. BROYLES...- Assistant Business Manager
H. Y. ALEXA —---Circulation Manager
E. D. WITHERSPOON.....-....-.-.-- Supscription Manager
E. L. UGL. A t
JULIAN LAKE.......-.-...-.-.---.-.----Service Department
M. P. CRAWFORD.........-.-..-.--.--2------------- Assistant

Reporters’ Club
G. M. EDDINGTON, Pres. T. T. JONES
V. S. BROYLES, V.-Pres W_ LL. LINGLE

.-Treas. B. M.

. B. TIN

h R. H. McILWAINE
STIN J. P. McKNIGHT
aly AGAW H. L. SHELBY

D, M. CALHOUN SPARROW
W. T. COVINGTON

W. T. DAVIS

W. S. GORDON

JOHN GWIN

J. F. HOLLINGSWORTH

ALN

J. G. WHARTON
B, WILSON

C, WITHERS

W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

Ivory soap is in its native habitat when
it shampoos some heads.
D
Attend the Dramatic Club’s performance
tomorrow night and see what they’ve been
practicing for these past few weeks.

The recent snow doubtless saved many a
good sophomore from leaving Davidson.
Several threatened to leave on account of
the closed season on Freshmen, but all bets
were called off Saturday.

College girls ought to make good firemen
for they have had lots of experience roll-
ing hose.

D

Just because a girl isn’t a bride-to-be is
no sign that she is not a tried-to-be.

Davidson’s little victory over Duke and
State were not bad for starters. With a few
more games to limber up the Christmas
Charleston horses, Monk’s loop artists
should be ready to start their seasonal shin-
ing.

Those who are contemplating making the
varsity in the spring sports will do wisely in
getting the old machine in shape now. A
man cannot force himself to spurt all at
once unless his body is prepared in advance.

The boys all came back from the holi-
days as well behaved as though they had
never attempted the Charleston. Even with
the artists and models in the neighboring
village, and other diversions, studies have
been remarkably attended to.

D.

Clemson sponsors an ugly man and a
handsome man contest. For a real, live pro-
moter, the field here in. Davidson is ripe
Enough material for both contests could be
secured without trouble, especially for the
first:

This paper would be incomplete without a
brief mention of the Seniors’ striking sar-
torial selections that have bedecked the up-
right forms of all members of that upper
order here of late. Notwithstanding the
pointed and irreverant jibes poked at them,
they would do credit to any darktown strut-
ter’s jazz band. The yellow trimming would
make a coon’s eyes pop out with envy.
Freckles Christenbury has refused numerous
offers to sell his.

AN INVENTORY

This is the beginning of a new year and

therefore, the time for an inventory. It is
time now to take stock; of all.the accom-
plishments of the past of the resolutions
stored up for the future.

Every business house that is built up on a
sound basis of honesty, integrity and keen
judgment stops long enough once a year to
record the results of the year’s accomplish-

|

|
|
|

ment and to take an inventory of what the
firm has in store for another year’s run.
Without this system, there would be con-
fusion and discord as well as loss. Unless
they know whether they are gaining or los-
ing, business men are net content to run
their business, and their patrons suffer the
loss if the business is not on a sound basis.
If a business is not paying and profitable, it
is far better for all concerned that it should
he dissolved.

So it is with you as a college man. You
have gone through part of your college
career; some of you are almost ready to
step out into the broad world with a diploma
in hand, to seek your fortune as others have
done before.

With the beginning of this new year, it is
high time, that each of you as a thinking
individual, take an inventory of your assets
and your liabilities. Weigh them in the
balance of an unimpassioned mind and find
out whether you are losing or gaining.
Someone has said that there is no middle
ground. You cannot stand still. You are
either advancing or retrogressing, You are
either walking towards success or slipping
back where failure in all its stark dismalness
awaits you.

There are several questions that you
might ask yourself. And it is only you,
yourself, that can tell whether they are
answered rightly. It will hurt no one, not
even he who finds the pathway easy, to ex-
amine himself before he goes further.

Have you lived up to the ideals that you
set for yourself before you entered college?
Has your college career heen what your
father and mother wished it to be? Have
you justified the love and faith that they
have bestowed upon you? Have you made
the most of your studies for which you are
paying dearly with he most precious years
of your life?

Are you getting anything out of your
college life more than a few cold figures and
facts? How about your friendships? Are
they the ones that will prove lasting as the
sands of time? Have you picked the right
companions? Do you have any kind. of a
schedule of your waking and working
hours? Do you regard your body as a
sacred thing, not. abusing it, and caring for
It as a precious gift of a divine power?

Do you really think that the time that
you have spent in Davidson College has been
of enough value to you that you would
choose it again had you the choice?

Every man can answer this for himself.
Only a fool will blind himself to problems
that confront him and which he knows must
be answered sooner or later. It will be far
better to take stock of yourself now, and do
something to rectify or improve the exist-
ing condition while it is plastic enough to
alter without a scar. :

WHAT PRICE PROFANITY?

The art of profanity is no new one by any
means. Since the first guttural speech of the
savage man roaming in his native forest,
there has been a tendency to degrade lan-
guage by using words and figures of speech
that are irreverant, unnatural, and obscene.
We of today know this scurrilous type of
speech as profanity, swearing, or simply
“cussing.”

If credence be given to varied statistics
that decry the alarming conditions among
our current young people, it is time for
alarm. Those who know say that profanity
is gaining ground each year; that its rec-
ognition on the legitimate stage and in mov-
ing pictures has fostered its popularity. Its
use among men is pretty well wide-spread
and it is gaining ground among the women.
One may hear a flapper of the present day
toss off a neat phrase that would have made
her mid-Victorian grandmother swoon and
those around her reach for the smelling
salts,

Among every stratum of life you hear
profane phrases. It is not fixed among the
divea and.in the underworld. Although it
has not lost the common touch it still walks
with kings and the mighty. Few seem to be
Immune to it. Many children first hear pro-
fanity issuing from the lips of their parents.
Their childish minds refuse to believe that
anything their parents do is harmful to
themselves. And through life the habit con-
tinues.

To come down to the point of the matter
we believe that profanity is not so much a
sin as it is an offense against good manners
and good breeding. Most men curse and
swear because they hear others do so and it
geems to them a natural vent for the ex-
pression of their exuberant feeling. They
fail to realize that the Bible holds it a car-
dinal sin to take in vain the name of God.
It is as natural to some as breathing.

Can we rightly blame the waif, who,
brought up in the slums, punctuates every
phrase with choice morsels of obscenity and
profanity,, utterly unconscious of his act?
Who is to blame when a child grows up to

A terse and snappy review of: the past year’s
chief events including the Scandinavian. Edited
by the snappy stories editor of The Davidsonian.

January

1—New Year heralded with wild clamor. Several
millions new resolutions made.

3—Davidson starts mid-winter frolic. Boys hap-
py, mad and indifferent.

17—Christenbury discovers library and wants
to put his copy of La Vie Parisienne in the read-
ing room,

19—Cargo of rum sunk outside three-mile limit.
Stomachs and pocketbooks sink throughout sev-
eral states.

February

4—"So’s your old man” joke make its bow.
Scores hit on Broadway.

14—Roland Parker sends comic valentine to pro-
fessor. ’

22—Senate celebrates Washington’s birthday
by wrangling over European war debt.

28—Man arrested on streets of Mt. Mourne
when cop smelled cider on his breath. The con-
victed claimed that his collar was tight and it
squeezed his:Adam’s apple.

March
2—Four thousand and eighticth Listerine joke
published.
17—Abie’s Irish Rose.
20—Nurmi jaunts around the boards like a

ku kluxed coon. Eats heavy beeksteak supper
before running.

29—Student appears on Davidson campus wear-
ing garters. He and they are quickly taken
down.

31—Oil stock salesman blunders on reservation
in Oklahoma. He is not punctured but has Injun
trouble,

April

9—The boys started calling Sloan La Valliere
today. He’s always hanging around a  girl’s
neck,

11—Davidson wins track meet.
his dime back.

15—Buster Keaton smiled today when poked in
ribs. Salary was reduced a thousand per week.

May

4—Ben Wilson bummed to Charlotte in a
hearse. The firm wanted to undertake him and
he had trouble proving he was alive.

6—Davidson loses 39th straight ball game.

22—Exams begin. C. E. Houston fainted.

Yuk Hall wins

June

1—The Johnnies go marching home.
parade.

11i—June husband forgets how to drive with
one hand,

18—Standard Oil goes up three cents a gallon.
John D. gives away whole pocketful of new
dimes.

Seniors

July
4—Man arrested for making speech on free
love. f
7—George Shaddock sees Folies Begere in Paris
and has his glasses refitted.
9—Jack Dempsey gets married and cancels all
fighting contracts.

manhood or womanhood with a curse or
evil remark on every breath?

College students uphold the traditions of
their elders in this matter. Perhaps they
think that it is manly; perhaps they have
acquired the habit unconsciously—at any
rate there are few who do not use profanity
in abundance every day. A few friends with
whom we are thrown in close contact use
such language for the expression of their
most elevated and sublime thoughts and
ideas. Surely such a condition is deplora-
ble... Perhaps a few “dams” and varied men-
tions ofthe informal regions are inoffensive
to many, but to us, they are grating, even
when there is the utmost provocation.

Cursing and swearing accomplish little if
anything. Worse than slang, such langauge
gathers the scums ofthe gutters and filth of
the streets and blends it with mention of the
most holy and sacred things of which we
know. From a purely critical standpoint, it
debases our language, robbing it of the virile
strength and calm beauty. It is offensive

and sickening. ~it:shows a weakened mind,

because the user resorts to nasty phrases
instead of availing himself of the beauties
of the English langauge.

We, as future leaders, workers, and min-
isters of the world can do much to stamp
down an evil that joins hand in hand with
lawlessness and crime. It is a sin and an
offense against good morals. Let us do our

bit to discourage its use.

30—Boll weevil have annual reunion and cotton

| goes up five dollars a bale.

August

3—L. L. Deck rescues strange maiden from
drowning at beach and nobly refuses the nickel
she offers him.

19—Heat wave breaks all records and melts
Victrola records.

31—Big butter and egg men yacation in New
York.

September
3—Gertrude Ederle find that English Channel

| is ten miles too wide.

| hawk and gunned

10—College opens with a couple of bangs and
spit curls. Four co-eds among those present.
Long may their permanents wave.

13—Ohio farmer thought the Shenandoah was a
for it, thereby bringing it
down. Souvenir hunters get busy.

25—Kid Lyerly tries new hair tonic.

29—World Series over and the tired radios, re-
joice.

October
5—British corner world’s supply of rubber and

| toy balloons and tires go up.

14—Wildcats stringing scalps to belt and add
another victory.

19—Claytor cuts off his basketball mustache.

27—Two deaf mutes interview President Cool-
idge. He cautions them not to quote him.

28—Harllee Bordeaux buys rubber watermelon.

31—Paper stays where it belongs at Davidson.

November
1—Sloppy Lingle appears in his Karo Kisses
jacket.
14—Davidson almost beat Carolina. Harold

Burke at the N. C. C..P. A. makes a race horse of
Helen Maria, his trusty Fordian mount.

15s—Henry Ford declines to be interviewed on his
artificial cow.

22—Dim Morning on Davidson but was soon
eclipsed.

28—Girls’ college still sending for copies of Da-
vidson College Magazine.

30—Infirmary still handing out medicine for
Thanksgiving dinners.

December

1—Check Monk approached by Hearst Syndicate
representative.

s—Davidson students get off Santa Claus letters.

8—Mrs. O. B. Joyful, of Scuppernong, Iowa,
who was formerly a telephone operator, presents
her husband with quadruplets.

17—Senate starts quarreling
Peace.

22—Antiquated Fords, kiddie kars, skates, walk-
ing shoes and anything rideable welcomed here.

25—Santa Claus does his yearly stunt and tired
fathers heave a sigh of relief until the first.

26—John St. George, of New York, pulled a St.
George—dragon stunt in which Christmas booze
won, 8

about World

old father Time scratches his head

31—The
mournfully and Charlestons out.
Gyr Ss:
Minor Chords

AMBITION
Oh that I were a@ star
To view from Heaven afar
All things that nightly pass upon this carth!
I'd be an errant spy
And watch with wandering eve
All deeds, of mercy, honor, shame and mirth.

I'd search in secret places

For old and wrinkled faces

And bring to light their troubles hidden long;
I'd cast my tiny light

On travelers of the night,

And shield the helpless one from violent wrong.

At twilight e’er I'd stir

In groves of pine and fir

Where waits for dawn the peaceful sleeping lark;
To hear the lover's tale

And thru the misty veil

To see the sweetest romancegof the dark.

And stealing thru the vines

Of thickest eglantine

Whence cometh words of love so soft and low,
I'd ’humine lovers’ faces ,
And see in their embraces

The ardent flame that sets their hearts aglow.

Thru windows high I'd flit,

Upon the walls to sit

And be a silent watchman o’er the fair;

I'd bind their snow-white hands

With silvery shadowy bands

Of starlight sifting thru their fluffy hair.
Then when the light of morn

Announced a new day born
Away from earth Fo quickly inke my flight,
To hide my bashful face

In the mighty realm of space

And wait for death of day and dawn of night.

H.'L. Shelby.

There is something new under the moon.
The University of Utah has instituted a
course in skiing, for which college credit is
given. |
