THE DAVIDSONIAN,

NOVEMBER 4, 1926

PLAYING THE GAME
With Withers

Season’s First Defeat

Flying Squadron Flies ¢
What About a Trophy Room?
Calvinists Clash

Freshmen Take Field

y

After marching through six games without
defeat, Coach Younger’s Wildcats were
forced to bow before the Virginia Military
Cadets Saturday. Contrary to so many com-
mentors on by-gone games, Davidson didn’t
win a “moral victory.”
nip-and-tuck affair throughout, with the first
downs standing even at a dozen and with the
Virginians earning one more touchdown than
the Wildcats. The twenty-pound advantage
per man held by the Cadets played havoc with
the light Davidson line—but this occurred
only twice during the game.

Leggette and Grey were in tip-top form

The contest was a}

a

Juniors Cop Crown in
Exciting Class Series

Come Through Season Without
Losing a Game—Seniors Take
Second Place

The Juniors, last year’s champion basket-
ball players, took o: the honors again this

| year by defeating the Seniors 19 to 14. This

and often tore substantial gains off tackle |

and round the ends. Leggette’s injury, which
forced the plucky back from the contest,
seemed to throw a damper over the fight that
Davidson had displayed earlier in the game.
We console ourselves somewhat when we en-
tertain the idea that had Leggette remained
on the field the score would have been dif-
ferent. The extent of this half's injuries
amount to having a piece of a broken cart-
ledge chipped off his leg. _ Although he was
week, it is practically assured that he will
be in fine shape for the Hampden-Sidney
bout Saturday.

The Virginia aggregation certainly was
worthy of the name is bears so proudly ;
“The Flying Squadron.” When on the of-
fense they literally took to the air, both of
their scores being the result of well directed
passes. Barnes and Nabers, that combina-
tion, often spelled disaster to the Davidson
team. Several times were these two fleet
backs responsible for material gains through
the air, and it was seldom that they failed to
complete a pass.

Davidson's attempts in the air fizzled ex-
cept in the first quarter, when Grey tossed
forig passes to Wells, Lincoln and Nesbit.
These aided considerably in Davidson's
touchdown, although a large part:of the ter-
ritory covered was gained on the ground,
Toward the last of the game, several star re-
ceivers of passes were rushed from the
bench, but were completely covered by the
Military ends and backs.

|

There is quite a bit of comment about the
campus concerning a trphy room for mem-
bers of the “D” club to have as headquarters
and a place where various. momentoes earned
by representatives of athletic teams can be
kept. Here is a great need and could easily
be filled if the controlling parties became in-
terested in the project. Until this year, there
has really been no place for such room, but
as other organizations have been allotted
halls, it surely seems that our athletic troph-
ies should be kept in a fitting room.

Renewing their feud just where it was
left off last year, Davidson and Hampden-
Sidney clash Saturday in Charlotte. The
Virginia Presbyterians came South last fall
doped to lose to their brother North Caro-
linians, but. came so near ‘to carrying Da-
vidson’s scalp back to the Cavalier State that
the Wildcat supporters were given a terrible

scare. May not history repeat. itself’ this
season |

But the opponents for this Saturday have
a more formidable past than they presented
one year ago. They succeeded in tying the
University of Virginia and holding other con-
ference teams of the Old Dominion to close
scores. We expect Davidson to encounter
one of the hardest fighting and fastest teams
on her schedule this week. The winner of
this game can rightfully claim the Presbyte-
rian championship of the two Carolinas and
Virginia, as P. S. of S. C. has already fallen
before Davidson.

The class of the Fresh Wildkitten foe to-
morrow is unknown in these parts. Just what
type of team Duke will offer in ‘its yearling
aggregation has been kept secret, so the

, game will not be forecast in any manner.
‘The little Devils have tied both Wake For-
est’s first year team and the usually strong
Oak Ridge prep school bunch, but as the
strength of these two squads is unknown, we
are as much in the dark as ever. Practically
the same line-up that started the Faurman
game is slated to commence the contest for
* the local freshmen.

| son.

|

was not the last game of the season, but
was the one which really determined the
champions. The Seniors came in second, the
Freshmen third, and the Sophomores fourth.
The Sophs seemed to be unable to get to-
gether very well, and came through the sea-
son without winning game, while the
Juniors came through without losing one.
The Seniors were defeated only once, and the
Freshmen only three times during the sea-
Until the latter part of the season both

a

|the Juniors and the Seniors were unde- | eleven must not be overlooked.

| feated, but the latter finally fell before the
; champions. These two teams ‘took the lead | weakly, have developed into a powerful team,
| from the start, and there was practically no | and from comparative scores they.are favor-
| competition for the championship honors ex-
absent from practice the first part of the |

cept between the two.

The original intention of the managers
was to play ten games, but at the last of
the season the Sophs and Freshmen were so
far behind that it would have been impossible
for either of them to win the championship,
and the last game was cancelled.

The outstanding men the various
classes were as follows: For the Seniors,
Calhoun, Vaughn, Hudgins, Womack, Whar-
ton, Story, Leathers, and Clark; for the
Juniors, Kugler, Withers, Calhoun, McAu-
lay, Ohseik, Hall, Taylor, Currie, and Smith;
for the Sophs, Gilmore, Murray, Hunt, Han-
cock, Sturdevant, Brown, Crawford, Kirk-
land, and Wallace; and for the Freshmen,
Pritchett, McGabock, Mauze, Smith, Baker,
Moore, Mobley, and Hefner.

for

The results of most of the games Were as
follows:

SOWIONE Be aducoccouccaas ‘ Daeuesk Sophs 8
OMA IGNe yee eee cae Freshmen 17
HUOEA LO bdewaaanweanweneowewn Seniors 14
MONON LY: oc cu nccabucanesseenes Sophs 11
INIMIGIS OF cumecnbiethcnacouususce. Fresh 11
Pes WG ec cuncbeecudacukmannwne Sophs 13
| WURIONR es nodesce Geese ceoamenee Sophs 13
WUIONE AO caescan oucdudena abe Sophs 16
MOHIONS 10) ac ceaupoasadansunenscas Fresh 10

Center to Battle in
Tiger-’Cat Game

When the Hampden - Sidney Tigers
meet in Charlotte next Saturday, two
of the leading centers in the South At-
lantic section will face each other. The
side fight between—Joe—McConnell, stal-
wart Davidson center, and Dickey Dud-
ley, diminuative pivot man of the Tigers
promises to be one of the high spots in
the day’s struggle.

McConnell is playing his fourth and
last year for the Davidson team and has
gathered during that time a world of
knowledge which few football players
obtain. Against this experience and
heavier Wildcat pivot man, the Tigers
will send the most colorful player on any
Virginia team. ’

Dicky Dudley, playing a position that
usually calls for a heavy man, is the
lightest man on the Tiger aggregation.
He tips the beam just under 150 pounds.
Since his first high school games he has
proven his ability to face the strongest
of opposing centers. He is now play-
ing his fifth year for the Hampden-Sid-
ney team. As a high school boy he
played for John Marshall at Richmond,
Virginia, and for two seasons was cap-
tain of that team. During his last year
he was chosen by leading sport writers
as the best center in the South and given
a place on the mythical All-Southern
team. :

He played against the Davidson team
at Charlotte last year and was one of the
main factors in stopping the Wildcat
offense and paving the way for
the Tiger touchdown which ended the
game with a 6-6 tie score. He plays a
roving game, detecting the opposing
plays with uncanny accuracy and plac-
ing himsélf in a position to block them.

During the past two weeks Joe Mc-
Connell has been sick with a cold and

Deacons Take Lead in
Race for Championship

Victory Over Duke By Decisive
Score Places Wake Forest
Ahead of Davidson

| The Wake Forest Demons, by virtue of
| their decisive defeat of the Duke Blue Devils
| last Saturday, are slightly ahead of the Wild-
| cat eleven in the already hotly contested race
| for the North Carolina gridiron champion-
| ship.
| The fact that Wake Forest has already
| downed Carolina and Duke, together with
| the fact that Davidson has yet to play these
| two teams, gives the Deacons a more secure
| outlook than that which the Wildcats must
| face, nevertheless the issue at present is be-
/tween Davidson and Wake Forest.

The steady improvement of the Tar Heel
The Caro-
| lina boys, although they started out rather

j ed to win from the V. M. I. Cadets in the

fracas between those two teams at Chapel
Hill next Saturday. If the Tar Heels do
win from the Cadets the victory will enable
them to face the Wildcats with more op-
timism since the Cats lost to V. M. I. last
Saturday. Carolina is not out of the race by
ra long shot, for it must be remembered that
this time last year the Tar Heels were in
practically the same position that they are
now. These University of North Carolina
boys have the habit of increasing in strength
as the season progresses and it is not a far-
fetched supposition to say that before the
season has ended the Tar Heels may be con-
sidered as fair bidders for the state title.

State has been practically elimiated from
the race since she has met defeat at the hands
of Carolina and Davidson and_unjé$s- Fate
intervenes in some freakishway the Tech
On the oth-
er hand it must be said that State has put up
a good fight and the reason for their low
standing at the present date has been their
lack of a strong offensive.

The games this week will not have much
bearing on the championship race. The games
scheduled for Saturday are: Davidson vs.
Hampden-Sidney, Wake Forest vs. Lenoir-
Rhyne, Carolina vs. V. M. I.

Wildcat Harriers
, Defeated by State

The Wildcat cross country team went to
Raleigh last Thursday, where they met. N. C.
State in a meet Friday. The team was badly
crippled by the absence of Clement Penn,
captain and mainstay of the team, who was
unable to make the trip because of a bad leg,
and was defeated by State by a score of 40
to 15. The distance run was three and one-
half miles, and the time was 20:17.

! griddere may he considered -+++
H : § ‘f

The course was entirely different from the
one here, being up and down hills all the
| way and very rocky. The team ran better
| than at any time during practice, but State
| was too much for them. The men came in
lin the following order: | Treverton, Ely,
‘Martin, Webb; Bob Sloop, George Brownell,
jand Shaw. Nance, of State, captain of last
year’s champion Freshman team, came in
first. Nance has never been beaten.

' Davidson meets Wofford in two weeks at

Spartanburg, and Duke next. These are the
only meets before the State meet. Duke
usually has a good team, and the Wildcats
will have no easy job on their hands when
they meet their harriers.

bronchial trouble. Whether or not he
will be, in good shape by Saturday is
very doubtful. However, it is practical-
ly assured that he will start in the line-
up. He was taken sick last week and
experienced a relapse while at Lynch-
burg, being forced to remain in bed dur-
ing the greater part of the time that he
was there.

McConnell has_ attracted attention
throughout the state this year by his
playing for the Wildcats and will be a
leading contender for all-state honors if
he continues in his present form.

Vv
Dinosaur eggs have been found in Mon-
tana.

,

Wildkittens Meet Duke
Fresh Here Next Friday

Strength of Little Imps Practically
Unknown—Davdison First Year
Men Improve Greatly

Friday afternoon on Richardson Field the
Freshman football team will meet the Duke

first-year team. This will be the first col-
lege freshman team of this state that the
Wildkittens have played, and the results of |
this contest will give us some idea as to the |
way our aggregation will stack up with the |
others of the state. The followers of Fresh |
football are taking great interest in the
game.

Our Fresh team has won a game and lost |
a game this season. They started the season |
by defeating the Furman Fresh by a score of
7-6. In this contest they showed up very |
well and gave promise of accomplishing |
things during this season. Then a week later
the Blue Ridge team beat them. However,
they were weakened in that game by the
loss of several players who had failed to pass
enough work to be eligible to play. It is
thought that these men will be back in the
game Friday. So the Duke team is in for a
hard scrap. |

The showing which the Duke boys have |
made seems to point to a hard fight for the |
Kittens. They tied the Wake Forest team, |
and also the Oak Ridge team. And last week
Oak Ridge beat Catawba College by a very |
big score. Flake Laird, of past Wildcat |
fame, is coaching this team, And it is ru- |
mored that the Duke varsity has been having |
a hard time with their Fresh team. Those |
who miss the game Fr'’., will likely miss
some good football. - The Kittesns have a'
good chance of coming out on top if they |
show the fight that they had in the Furman

game.

Davidson’s probable line-up for the game
is:
IMG ION so caakwcshecunauucced Peterson
IIGHE VACKIC wansnwcecaneuccuns McConnell
RUSHt Guatd cucu ceaenwsesccsan DeCamp
(ONO Seo aoe ee ecko icone DeArmon
TATE ACGUAUG usb ce neu euncuuaeu ete Hunt
Tift “VAGwIO ono ch onwecwnaucnecne Carson
Welt BNC: s naccessueectencouswa Hampton
ONES CLucscosknscocusnuseceus Hammitt |
Rigtitelal® ocsc-sons-eccesc cee Matthews |
RE iss danancdeckansabin Goodman |
ub EGK cc uses wcdasueccswsnecun Brohard

A Wisconsin county clerk discharged
his deputy, a young woman, declaring
that she “lacked initiative.’ She ran
against him for the office and won by
2,500 votes.

A golfer in Philadelphia struck the lit-
tle ball such a blow—that it soared far
away, striking the glass in a fire alarm
box and setting off the alarm. '

be
K os

Tennis Team Makes
Plans for Matches

There will be no varsity tennis tournaments
held: this fall, but one or two minor matches
will probably be played in the near future.

The last match was held about two weeks
ago. The Wildcat team went to Salisbury,
meeting the Salisbury Country Club team.
Salisbury won the match, but found a worthy
foe in the team representing Davidson.

The Wildcats expected to play a complete
team, but Salisbury only .had two tennis
courts available, and before the full number
of matches could be played, darkness fell.

Julian Roberson, a member of the Salis-
bury Country Club team, is an old Southern
doubles champion. He played brilliant tennis
throughout the match. McAlpine was the
Davidson man slated to meet him and he put
up a great fight against his more experienced
opponent. The match was Roberson’s, the
score being 6-3, 6-2. The final score can
hardly show the tightness of the match.

McCutcheon took the next singles match

| from Edgar Woods, of Salisbury, 7-5, 6-4.

This also was a very exciting match. These

' were the only single matches held.

As for the doubles, the score was tied.
Carr and McCutcheon, for Davidson, won
from Woods and Roberson, 6-4, 7-5  Salis-
bury took the second doubles match.

The next tennis match on the schedule will
probably be a return engagement, with Salis-
bury in the near future.

Sign of a Quack Doctor

“lll guarantee to cure your mumps,
measles, boils, or what have you?”

Ladson Mills (viewing his proofs) —
“Well, they even left out my dimples.”

WE RENT

Tuxedos, Full Dress ‘
Any Costume
or Wig
SOUTHERN COSTUME SHOPPE

17 South Tryon Street

Over Brown’s Restaurant

——)

EAT AT THE

ASTOR LUNCH
SERVICE

\

THE BEST OF COOK-
ING

Charlotte, N. C.

tinually increasing.
Fall lines for young

best we’ve ever had!

SHOES

“Since 1868 the Home of Good Shoes”’

We Never Hear a Man Ask for “Just Anything”
in Footwear Nowadays

O, SIR! Men have decidedly em-
Tl phatic ideas of what they require of
tootwear now---and the number of
satisfied Gilmer-Moore customers are con-

Gilmer-Moore Company
HOSIERY

Have you seen our
men? They’re the

- LUGGAGE

Union

Theological Seminary

RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Introducing to the readers of

The Davidsonian

Rev. Thomas Cary Johoson, D. D., LL. D., Pro-
fessorof Systematic Theology. Dr. Johnson in his
thirty-five years at Union Theological Seminary has
probably taught more Davidson men than any liv.
ing teacher outside of the College faculty,

