4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 8, 1926 :

The Davidsonian

Member. of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Da

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter ‘of
- the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
anaR ye Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-

ceived from an unknown source will not be published.
CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH...---------..-- Editor-in-Chief
HAROLD D. BURKE -Busi Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF :
W, Hie BRANGH. csstesces ors eas Managing Editor
L. D) WHARTON.-.. Assistant Managing Editor
F. K. BELL--..--- _.Assistant Managing Editor
W. E. MILTON. .----Athletic Editor
R. B. PARKER. .-Associate Editor
A. Y, BOWIE-......-.-. -Associate Editor
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH. Associate Editor
GARNETT McMILLAN Humorous Editor
J WEB Bisvsisctuteciscesscssccccccaaccectaese Alumni Editor

..Exchange Editor

Business Staff
Business Manager
.Assistant Business Manager
-Assistant Business Manager

-Circulation s
.--------Supscription Manager

Reporters’ Club

G. M. EDDINGTON, Pres. T.T. JONES _.

V. S. BROYLES, V.-Pres. W. L. LINGLE

C. C. MURCHISON, Sec.-Treas. B. MARTIN

W. H. ALLISON R. H. McILWAINE
H. M AUSTI J. P. McKNIGHT
Cc. L. RRAGAW A. M. SPARROW
D, M, CALHOUN J. G. WHARTON
W. T. COVINGTON RB. WILSON

W. T. 1S C. WITHERS

W. S. GORDON W._S. WOODS
JOHN GWIN J. F. HOLLINGSWORTH

EDITORIAL

Sweet memories—all that’s left of Junior
Week.

D

SANITY RARE, using the Ivory Soap
motto as its own, held its head up proudly
during the holidays. - Congrats.

D
_ Four college contests won-inside of a week
is some little record for the Red and Black
tribe to hang inside its wigwam.

D.

Rumor has it that the Prince of Wales is
getting bald. Another horse on him.. Pretty
soon there’ll be no hair apparent on the heir
apparent.

D.

We haven’t named the new Davidson
playhouse yet but we have some suggestions
up our shirt sleeves. Suffice to say that the
place is plenty dark to suit any taste and
they say the pictures will be good.

D

There remains to us only six weeks more
of time in which to uncover hidden facts
contained in textbooks. That time may be
profitably spent or it may be wasted in idle
dreaming. What will be your case?

D

The gift of the handsome Victrola to the

‘YY. M. C. A. reception hall by the frater-

nities on the hill is one that merits the com-
mendation of everyone connected with Da-
vidson College. This musical instrument
fills a much needed want and it is appre-
ciated by all. It helped out greatly during
the holidays. :
D

Have you secured a job for the coming
summer. Before you realize it, summer will
be here with its opportunity to improve your
health and pocketbook at one and the same
time, A little anxious dickering with a job
now will save many anxious minutes about
the first of June.

D

The recent improvements made on the
campus by the college authorities should
cause every fellow here to be careful less he
mar the natural beauty of it. A few careless
ones will do more to hurt the looks than an
army of caretakers can remedy. Watch
your stray papers and let the grass be.

The special R. O. T. C. edition to be put
out next week will be one to be proud of.
The Scadbard-and Blade fraternity will take
over the reins for a week and they will have
charge of all the special features and news
articles relating to military affairs here. It
will be distributed Wednesday afternoon.

T).

The golf links, due to careful care-taking
supervision is rapidly recovering from the
ravages brought about by the drought of

: last summer. By next fall all will be hosty-

totsy for golfbugs.

|

WHAT WE STAND FOR

The sport comment written by Jake Wade
for the Charlotte Observer, which is re-
printed in another section of this paper, is
worth the time of anyone to read. It tells
in a few words the reason why Davidson
ideals have been high in the’ past and why
they are high today.

Three athletes from a championship team
of Gastonia have anounced their intention of
coming to Davidson this next term. And
they made this decision in spite of the fact
that there were many alluring advantages
offered them at other institutions where the
going would have been easier perhaps. Cer
tainly there would have been some remun-
eration directly or indirectly.. There would
have been a consideration of some kind,
money or whatnot.

But in coming to Davidson, they know
that they will never receive a red cent for
any services on the athletic field, no matter
how hard they may sweat and toil. Their
path here will be no more a path of roses
than those of the fellows less favored with
the. innate ability to excel in feats of skill
and strength. It it falls to their lot to work
for their. education, in the end they will
recall with pleasure that they chose to
secure their education by their own efforts
and not through pull, nor favor.

These young men said that one thing that
influenced them was the spirit displayed by
Davidson teams. We hope that they will
quickly imbibe this spirit when they enter
our gates for without it one who comes here
and remains cannot be called a true David-
son man. If they are shown favor by hav-
ing several varieties of pretty, be-pearled
pins offered them, then congratulations, and
may they have the sense to realize what
such emblems mean and what they do not.

We welcome such men as these into our
college,

AFTER JUNIOR WEEK

Observing the scarcity of students on the
campus during the past Junior Speaking, it
occurred to us that such an event as this
deserves more recognition than it receives.
Only about-a_fifth-ofthestudent_hody_re-
main on the hill to join in the festivities.
Those who were absent can appreciate what
they missed by asking anyone who stayed
here. :

We believe that a better plan would be to
arrange such a program of entertainment
sometime during the spring when all the
students would be on the campus. Then,
either have the spring holidays at the reg-
ular time, or cut down on the time a day or
two if necessary. Three days, Friday, Sat-
urday and Sunday would be sufficient time
in which to put on an intensive program of
entertainment. Having the Junior Speak-
ing, Stunt Night, Glee Club performance and
the other diversion in this time would pro-
vide such an attractive program that none
would want to be absent a single minute less
he miss a single bit of it.

Everyone acknowledges that the oratori-
cal program is sadly in need of repair. At
the speaking in Shearer Hall last Thursday
evening, there was only a handful of peo-
ple. By having this at a time when all the
boys would be here, there would be more in-
centive for extensive preparation.

Davidson students need more social life
here on the campus and they should not
have to go to dances in Charlotte, States-
ville and other places in order to satisfy a
perfectly normal craving for social compan-
ilonship. There should be enough formal and
semi-formal occasions here that it would be
a matter of course for one to attend such.
When a man leaves Davidson he should
know the rudiments of the etiquette of the
banquet hall, a reeptcion or any social, oc-
casion,

No matter what may be his aptitude for
learning facts and figures, unless he is able
to make a creditable appearance before any
group of people, he will not have an educa-
tion nor will his cultural qualities be of such
a nature as to impart a sense of ease and
satisfaction within him.

WORLD AFFAIRS

One cannot help but wonder if the front
pages of newspapers that comé to Davidson
are ever used except when there is a debate
on hand. That the most! momentous prob-
lems of the day are skipped over for a sport
item “is general knowledge. And, general
information concerning topics that everyone
should have a nodding acquaintance with, is
pitifully lacking here. For instance, at least
thirty fellows asked this writer what was a
marionette before the show of that nature
given in Shearer Hall the other night. Some
of them had no idea whether such a thing
was an animal or not.

We owe it to ourselves to keep at least
moderately posted on vital happenings that
concern us. News items that the papers
chronicle have their place in our lives, al-

Open Forum

ABOVE REPROACH

The Davidson athletic authorities were severely
criticized in last week's Open Forum for what the
writer of the protest termed “the policy of as-
signing junior managers in one sport to junior
managership in another sport after their failure
to betelected to the senior rene wer ae their
respective sport.” :

It would be well to look clearly into the facts
of the case before censuring the Davidson coaches
and officials for their actions. When such facts
are examined the action of those criticized will be
above reproach.

At the opening of the school in September the
Davidson coaches were faced with this situations

there was one vacancy in the junior basketball®

managerships and vacancy in the junior
track managerships. These two vacancies came
as the result of Mr. Sparrow and Mr. Fauccette’s
failure to return to Davidson.

Several months before the football managership
election Coach Younger stated that he would fill
these vacancies with the two men who were de-
feated in the race for the football managership.

one

Such action was very natural when it is consider-
ed that naturally Coach Younger would wish to
fill all vacancies with the best men available and
when it is further considered that naturally men
who had worked three years along similar lines
would be the best men available.

So it is evident that no one could criticize Coach
Younger for filling a vacancy with the best man
available for that vacancy. Whether the selec-
tion of the senior manager in any sport can be
criticized is'a matter of individual opinion,

There is no such policy as the article in ques-
tion would lead one to think. There never
has been one example of the assignment of a
defeated junior to another sport except to fill a
vacancy in that sport.

If such a “policy” as suggested existed the au-
thorities might well be criticized. As the facts
stand their actions have been just to all parties
concerned,

DON WHARTON.

HAIL THE NEW CHIEF!

Harllee Branch, Jr., who has been man-
aging editor of The Davidsonian for the
past year was elected editor-in-chief for the
coming school year. Harllee has been a
loyal worker on this paper for the past three
years and has thus gained much in practical
experience, poe

We feel sure that he will continue to run
the paper for the best interest of the stu-
dent body and the college, as has been the
endeavor of the present staff. With him,
there is a group of capable and experienced
men who Will no doubt keep the standard of
The Davidsonian high for time to come.

From the mass of letters that have come
back this way after Junior Speaking it
seems that many suits have been pressed,
many love affairs promulgated, affaires de
cour inaugurated, and many a_ lonesome
Hannah hankering for her Henry.

An error made to be cheerfully corrected.

Last week’s paper carried a_ story about

“Shorty” Williams, former “Y” secretary
here, and it mentioned the fact that he had
one son, The truth of the whole matter is
that the son not a son at all but
a daughter.

Minor Chords

LIFE
Al strangling cry for breath,
Fast passing youth without a-care,
Conventional kisses three,
One passionate and free,
Then work that lags and thorns that tear,
Al strangling ery and death.

TO

Withered ,curling leaves,
Merciless thorns-—
All that is left,
Left of Life's sweetest rose.
You say the fault was mine?
Perhaps, perhaps.
Who knows but God?
Yet your reproach
Is but another thorn.
It does not bring the rose
To me again,

is

W.C. O.

though the connection may see far-fetched
at times.

The old-time gift of knowing everything
that happens is confined to a very few today.
The more a man reads the more he learns.
He may forget’ most of what he gathers,

. but some will stick to him and will prove of

invaluable aid later on in life.

| We had a date with one of the

i}

JUNIOR SPEAKING

Holidays may come,
And they may go,
3ut cla8ses go on
Forever.

There were only oneehundred and twenty-five
fair damsels the Hill last week for Junior
Speaking, but that doesn’t mean that the old cam-
pus wasn’t gayer than Write your own
ticket.

on
ever.

We aren’t calling any names,\but one man in
the Junior class claims the record for Davidson
students. He had twenty dates in three days.
Anyone who wishes to challenge this record will
kindly communicate with Prison Reform Editor
of this organ.

He held her hand,

And kissed her lips;

They matched for his clothes
With poker chips.

Mr. Henderson, the jeweler reports that untold
numbers of pennants and kodak films were dis-
posed of during the holidays.

The student body will soon be failed to raise a
| fund to defray expenses incurred by re-sodding
| the territory around the chinaberry tree.

The golf course had more wear and tear last

week than it has experienced since the Civil War.

| Girls just naturally can’t play golf. We maintain
that they would make excellent scene-shifters.

Sad the song of Bellamy-Jane;
She had a date and missed her train.

The Davidsonian lacked so much copy this week
that we decided to name it the “Great Open

Spaces” Number.

OVERHEARD AT THE BASEBALL GAME

' (Couple entering at sixth inning)

| fair Visitor—“What’s the score?”

| Charlie Trabue—‘Nothing to nothing.”

F. V.--"Oooh, we haven't missed a thing, have

wer”

. ES
up to its name in places, but

Sanity Rare lived
that the insanity was pretty

in others we claim
rare.

the Hill pulled

One of the beautiful visitors on
that we

so many wheezes during her stay here
| tried to sign her up for the Keyhole, but she de-
clined the offer.

| Speaking of wheezes, did you ever hear a mule
try to bray while it had distemper?”

visitors Sunday
afternoon, and in our little jaunt around the cam-
pus asked her if she would like to see the library.
| She said that she would, but we later learned that
we were only the fourth party to show her that
point of interest. Moral: There are more ways
'+to drown a catfish than feeding it bottled-in-bond-
Scotch-Rye.

Back to the time my memory whirls,—

To Junior Speaking and pretty girls.

“I just adore fencing,” cooed a cute co-ed from
Converse, and Fred Smith asked her if she had
rather see a barbed wire or a board fence.

How’s this for a combination : Holidays—warm
girls—lots of entertainments—
FULL

weather—pretty
everybody happy—springtime—and a
moon? Just use your imagination, kiddo.

__The wildcat saw more fair visitors during the
holidays than an up-to-date women’s wear shoppe
dreams of in the last two weeks before Easter.

A BUM RUNNER
The biggest bum prize for Junior Speaking goes
to Kenneth Bell, who bummed to Birmingham
and back, and had over two days to spend in the
Alabama city. He heard a victrola playing, “I’m
Mfabama Bound” fast Thursday, and just couldn’t

| keep his dogs from pointing south.

As yet no one has offered to purchase the nice
clean typewriter that was used in making the
copy for Sanitary Rare. Speak up. It will be
fine to write your Sunday School lessons on.

SCENE IN SKIT’S PILLING STATION

Jack Causey, to visitor—“I want orange in my

|
| dope; what'll you have in yours 2".
