Vol. XIV

DAVI

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

DSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 14, 1926

OMICRON DELTA KAPPA TAPS FOUR PROMINENT M

Wildcats Meet State

Afternoon in Championship Game |

Previous Dope.Points Toward
Davidson Victory

STUDENTS ATTEND

Agricultural Students Will Feature
“Dad’s Day” as Part: of Their
Annual Fair

After a week of continuous heavy drilling,

the Davidson Wildcats are all set for the |

game with the N. C. State Wolfpack this

afternoon in Raleigh. The Davidson coaches |
have been pointing to this game for some |

time as it is the first game having bearing

on the state race for championship. Secret |

practices have been in vogue, with Coaches
Younger and Tilson instructing their charges
behind closed gates. Numerous new plays
have been given and in the contest with the
Wolkpack something which has not been
seen this season in the Wildcat camp will
likely be uncorked.

According to comparative scores, the
Wildcats look'‘at least two touchdowns _bet-
ter than the Wolfpack. Davidson defeated

Elon in the opener, 26 to 0, while State trim-

med the Christians only 10 to 0, giving the

Presbyterians a 16-point advantage.

Presbyterian College defeated Clemson 14

to 0; the Wildcats nosed out P. C., 3 to 0,

and Clemson comes back to defeat State 7
to 3. This results in a 21-point advantage

for Davidson, according to comparative fig-
ures, 5
: But the Davidson coaches are not taking
“much cognizance“of this status, preferring
to remember that State has a hefty line, has
the far-famed Jack McDowall to hurl passes,
and that upsets ‘are uncannily prevalent.

(Continued on page 7)

Tentative Sched
Debating Team Released

Debaters to Meet V. P. I., Sewanee, |

Mercer and Rutgers—Tryouts
to be Held

When forensic activities begin this De-
cember, Davidson ‘will be entering upon the |

most extensive debating program ever at-
tempted. Three varsity debates have been
scheduled already, and negotiations are under
way ‘for several others.
eral of the most prominent southeastern col-
leges, as Sewanee, V. P. I., probably Mercer,
and also Rutgers, well known among eastern
colleges. Davidson meets V. P. I. at Blacks-
burg: some time in December, while Sewance
comes here in the spring. The debate with
Rutgers is to be held at New Brunswick,
also in the spring. Plans for meeting Mercer
are still tentative, but the debate is practically
assured. Negotiations are under way to ar-
range several other varsity debates, among
which is mentioned Carolina, and these, with
definite information: will be announced later.

The schedule this year provides for two
trips, a northern trip and a southern. The
northern trip will include the debate with
Rutgers and also several other colleges with
whom arrangements are at present being
made. On the southern trip Davidson meets
Mercer, and other colleges which will be
announced as soon as final plans have been
drawn up.

‘There will be four or five teams this year,
each composed of two men; and each will
participate in one debate. Fortunately, there
are five varsity debaters back this year, and
they will be a valuable nucleus with which to
Start. These are: J. Henry Powell, a Ju-

These include sev- |

at Raleigh This

|

F.C. Withers Will :
| Edit Sanity Rare

| At a meeting of the Junior class held last
| Monday morning, Caldwell Withers was |
|elected editor of the 1927 issue of Sanity
| Rare, the humorous magazine which is an-
jnually published by the Junior class as an
laid to Junior Speaking. Withers and W. L.
Lingle were nominated for the position,-the |
former being elected by a vote of 33 to 29.
| A discussion of ways and means of financing

| the anriual Junior affair was postponed until
|
a future date.

| Withers is a leader in his class and promi- |
|nently connected with journalistic organiza- |
j tions on the hill.’ He is athletic editor of
| The Davidsonian, contributing editor to
| Quips and Cranks, and a member of Delta |
| Pi Kappa, honorary journalistic fraternity |
; Which has. recently been reorganized. He is
| also assistant manager of baseball. Withers
is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon so-
cial fraternity. :

Withers has not definitely appointed his
staff but announces that the business staff
will probably be composed of Bud Guthrey,
Carter Rowe, E. L. Douglas, Martin Craw-
ford and Julian Lake. Withers himself will

Dramatic Club Changes
Name to Red and Black

Masquers For New Year

Professor Erwin Remains as
Faculty Supervisor

PLANS BEING MADE
Frank Wilkinson is President and
Kuykendall is Business Man-
ager of Club

With the reorganization of the various ac-
tivities this fall is that of the Dramatie Club,
and Black Masquers.

Plans have been made for the club té be
more closely organized this year than ever
before. The divided
into two groups, active and associate mem-
bers. The active members are those who
either actually take part in the plays or
write for the club, while the associate mem-
bers are those who take an interest in
organization but no active part.

members have been

once a month.

public performances.
held Wednesday night, when the play,
tiques, written by Prof. E. J.
rehearsed.

head the editorial department, with Witt
Handcock, Boyce Martin, W. L. Lingle, J
G. Wharton, and Malcolm Murchison as-
sisting.,-J» P. McKnight and Bob Platt will
hagdle the art department and contributions
will be gotten from other members of the
student body who are talented in this line.

_ Boyce Martin, chairmam of the program
committee, announces that the chairmen of
his sub-committees will be as follows: Gen-
cral arrangements, W. L. Lingle, chairman,
jand Camp O'Neal, vice-chairman; literary
| societies, Tyree Dillard, chairman and Henry |
Powell, vice-chairman; decorations, Witt
| Hancock, chairman, and Martin Crawford,
| vice-chairman; program, Bob Link, chair-
|man, and Jake Robinson, vice-chairman, The

Solemn and Dignifie
Inauguration of

Plans Being Made

All of the conerete has been poured in the
new stadium at Davidson, and work on. the
finishing touches is progressing at a rapid
rate. The structure has taken shape to such
an extent that people who visited Davidson
during the Davidson-Guilford game on last
Saturday were able to get a splendid idea of

| Whose name has been changed to the Red) what it will look like when completely fins

lished. There is no question now about. its
‘being ready for the Davidson-Carolina clash
on November 13, which is also H&mé-coming
Day.

Letters have been sent out to the alumni
urging them to be present on this day, and a
The
program

large crowd. of old men is expected,
committee having charge of the
{ plans. This committee is composed of Dr.

; ; t Pasccaayg
Lingle, Professor “Currie,

W.

The first métting was | events: The R.O. T. C. Battalion will form
An- | about the middle of the morning and march

Erwin, was | down to the Freshman athletic field; where

about 15 minutes of calisthenics will

Some very successful plays were presented | given. Following this the Battalion will give
‘i last’ year, and with some of the playrights |a parade for the benefit of the visitors, and

discovered during the past season, even bet- | then will stack arms and go to the new

ter plays will be available this year.

been the custom for the past few years here,

As has | stadium where a brief exercise will be held.

| Tf the consent of the Richardson brothers
!

all of the plays given will be written and | can be obtained, the stadium will be dedi-

produced by local talent.
already been written to be submitted to the
Masquers. Besides the play, Antiques, by
Professor Erwin, Warren Ogden has written
two more to be placed at the disposal of the
A new writer in this field is Bob Covy-
ington, who has also submitted a play to the
club, Frank Wilkinson Bud Guthrie
are at work on still another one, but have not
completed it yet.

The Masquers are petitioning the executive

club.

and

(Continued on page 6)

(Continued on page 8)

cot

Several plays have

cated at this time. If neither of the Rich-
ardson brothers or a representative of them
can be present, a letter from them will be
read, and formal acceptance of the gift will
he made by Dr. Martin. .After this, Dr. A,
A, MeGeachy, of Charlotte, will conclude the
morning exercises with a short address to
the students and visitors as well.

After dinner the big Davidson-Carolina
game will be played, and that night the an-
nual stunt night program will be presented.

(Continued on page 6)

FOUR BACKFIELD ACES OF WOLFPACK

}

|

The above photograph shows the N. C. State backfield, lined up and lifting four dangerous-looking toes in mid-
air, These four huskies will get into action against Davidson this afternoon, when the Wildcats and the Wolfpack
take the field against each other at Raleigh. They are, reading from left to right: Hennessee, right half; Mc-,
Dowell, quarterback; Melton, left half; and Outen fullback. (Charlotte Observer photo.)

: (Continued on page 6)

be

EN

d Ceremony Marks
Unique System Here

Bohannon, Goodykoontz, McIlwaine,
and Anderson Are Bid

McCONNELL PRESIDES
Pinkney, Christian, Branch, Whar-
ton, Austin, Covington, Boggs,
and Sappenfield Already
Members

The Delta Circle of the Omicron Delta
Kappa “tapped” four leading members of
the Senior Class in its initial “Tap Day”
last morning, The four
thus honored dntluded: H. G.
koontz, E. F. Bohannon, R. H. Mellwaine,
and T. FP, Anderson,

A

marked’ the occasion of

Tuesday men

Goody-

solemnity
first

and
Davidson's

cermon™ of dignity

“tapping,” and the success of the event

the | for the day met recently and made additional Ljustifies a prophecy that within a few

years the O. D. K. Tap Day will be one

The Masquers will have a regular meeting | KE. FF. Shewmake, chairman; Dr. W. J. Mar-] of the red-letter days on the Davidson
In these meetings differeit | tin, Dr, T.
plays will be rehearsed by the members and | Capt. R. D, Daugherty, and Ernest Milton.
the best among these will be perfected for | They decided on the following order of

calendar.

All four the men “tapped” last
Tuesday are prominent in collegiate ac-
tivities, each one having taken an out-
in one“or more lines of
campus endeavor. Along with the other

of

standing role

members of the senior class, who were
initiated into the order of Omicrom Delta
Kappa last spring, they compose the out-
standing men on the local campus.
Ernest Bohannon, of Davidson, the
first of the new men to be tapped, was
called to the platform by, Jim Pinkney.
Bohannon is one of the leading athletes
in the college, having taken a prominent
part in football, track, and wrestling. He
(Continued on page 8)

Fortyalires Bids Given
Out By Honorary Frats

Eight Members of Honorary Frat-
ternity Council Extend Bids—
Phi Beta Kappa Later

Forty-three students, prominent in varied
i fields of collegiate endeavor, were recipients
| of honorary fraternity bids last Tuesday in
| the second of the regular semi-annual hon-
orary fraternity bid days, This number doés
lnot include: the men bid by Omicron Delta
Kappa, a list of which is printed elsewhere
in this issue.
fraternities: are included in the list
to
and of these cight, Sigma Pi Sigma, hon-

Eight

of those extending bids new members,
ovary physics fraternity, extended bids to the
number of Bids this
group were given to 11 men, while the In-
Relations Club was next in line

with eight hids.

largest men. from

ternational

Other honorary groups fell far short of this
number. Omega Phi Alpha, honorary phi-
losophy fraternity, bid, four men; Scabbard
Blade, military
membership: to seven new

organization,
extended men.
Delta Pi Kappa, journalistic, chose four new
members; Sigma Upsilon, literary, chose
three; Alpha Phi Epsilon, forensic, elected
three, and Gamma Sigma Epsilon, chemical,
sent out bids to three also.

and national

The Riology Club, through its representa-
tive, petitioned the honorary “fraternity
council, for permission to delay its bidding,
declaring that it was impossible for an or-
ganization which was accustomed to choose
on merit alone, to exercise anw proficient
choice this early in the year. This permis-
sion was granted.

ie

(Continued on page 3)
