THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 14, 1926

SPORTOGRAPHS
By Caldwell Withers

Nisbet Runs Wild |
State Game Headliner
Freshmen Open Saturday
Class Basketball Begins |
Many Up-Sets Saturday

The smashing, hard-driving game played
by Mutt Nisbet against Guilford last Sat- |
urday, was one of the few bright spots of |
the slow contest. The Charlotte boy, start- |

ing a game for the first time this season, | —

almost single-handed carried the oval in a| '

70-yard march in the first period that r-| [wo Upper Classes
sulted in a touchdown. He was on the re- | ;
ceiving end of Sappenfield’s 12-yard toss for |

Davitean Defeats Guilford Quakers Saturday
In Slow Game Marked By Many Substitutions

Wildcat Offense Opens up in Two
Periods

Davidson’s first score.

Dick Grey hung up a mark for other backs
to shoot at when he scored three points

against Guilford although he was in the | Sophomores by a 22-8 score.

game just about five seconds.

Grey, along |

Win Opening Games

ri‘,

wow ‘
The class basketball season opened Tuesday
with a listless and generally uninteresting

| game in which the Seniors won from the
|

The game
showed the results of only two days’ practice

with Ritchie, McColgan, Boggs and others, | which the teams had had.

was held in
today.

reserve for the State clash

Although the Wildcats enter the Wolfpack
lair today slight favorites, they are not ex- |
pecting an easy game. State lost to the
Tigers of Clemson Saturday 7 to 3, but |
Clemson's superiority was shown only in the |
final count as the Techmen played a clear, |
head-up game from the start to the finish. |

: |
Two games have been played in the class |
basketball series.

In the opening fracas the Seniors played
brilliant ball in the first half to down the
Sophs. Friday night, with many men play-
ing who helped win fast year's champion-
ship, and led by the deadly Calhoun, “the
Juniors swamped the Fresh 31 to 15. Cap-

tain Calhoun played jam-up ball throughout |

and should land a place on the varsity squad
this winter.

Coach Monk Mattox’s Wildkittens get
started Saturday when Coach Norman and
his Furman Freshmen blow into town. For
the last several years the little Hurricane
has found the Davidson Yearlings easy go-
ing, but it seems that the tide has turned.
The men of ’30 have a much better team
than the present Sophomores turned out and
the Furman Breeze was tinexpectdly defeated

_ The Seniors opened with a whirlwind at-

| tack in the first half with Calhoun dropping

some nice long shots while Hudgins was
shooting snowbirds galore and the score be-
gan running up with the Sophomores trying
to get their defense together.

As the half progressed the Seniors allowed .

their offense to retard and the Sophs could
not get their eye on the basket. The Sophs
came back with their defense in the last
part of the half, holding the opponents down
and scrimmage was the main show.

In the second half the Sophs played a jam-
up defensive game and held the big guns of
the Seniors at bay.and little scoring was
done in this half, neither team working much
offense. The remainder of the game was
an inconspicuous grind up and down the
floor, the spectators getting no thrills.

It was a game such as could be expected
with neither team in training. Hunt and
Sturdévant were the mainstays of the Sopha-
more team, while Hudgins,
Wharton played great games for the Seniors.

this. fall by a strong Erskine fresh team.
There are no scores by which we may judge,

but the affair should be nip-and-tuck with |

slight-+ dan

Monk’s

favorites.

team entering the game

|

Seniors. Pos. Sophomores.
Vaughan (4) ---.22.-------- Gilmore ‘ (1)
ap R. F.
Calhoun (o) hessseresses els Murray (2)
| J ates
Hudginsh(6)}s-ssebe se -owcc soe Hunt (5)
Cc.
Womack s22ceces suppose conc Hancock
R. G.
Wihatton:(7)s eacekeeouseccee Ss Sturdevant
er ore(cy

Substitutions—Seniors: Clark and Sulli-
Sophs: Wallace, Brown and-Kirkland.
Referee: Mattox.

Davidson's opponent for the last week-end
of this month, V. M. I, was defeated rather
unexpectedly by Roanoke Saturday. ‘The
Virginia cadets haye had rough going all
season, but sport writers declare that they
are due for a reversal of form before the
season is out. Let us hope that this “revival”
does not come in the Davidson game. Duke,
who: opposes the Wildcats in the closing
game of the season oa Thanksgiving, romp-
ed away with Elon by a larger score than
the Wildcats amassed. This game promises
to be harder than was expected.

The.startling recovery of North Carolina |

of her old football form brought disaster to
the South Carolina Gamecocks. The Game-
cocks entered the game favorites for the first
time in years, but their high-stepping back-
field failed to function properly and the 70-
yard sprint of Young spelled their doom.
Although Furman’s win over Wake Forest
was not surprising; the margin of difference

- was larger than had been expected in most
quarters. Rawl, Pipkins, and Scnider played
great ball and overshadowed the magnificent
work of Wake Forest’s stellar end, Riley.
“Old Harvard” was forced to again suffer
defeat, while Princeton was lucky to get a
7 to 7 tie with Washington and Lee.

_The somewhat hazy argument between Da-
vidson and P. C. over the report that the
South Carolina Presbyterians had been dropt

from Davidson’s 1927 schedule has appa- |

rently subsided. According to press dis-
patches Dr. Martin said he knew nothing of
the matter and Coach Younger stated that
whatever had ,been said at Rock Hill was
absolutely unofficial. Just what: conclusion
will be reached is in the hands of the athletic

authorities of the two schools and no_an-1-

nouncement /has been made;
, — |

Prospects for a good golf team this fall
are exceedingly bright. Although only one
man from last year’e aggregation is back in
“school, several Freshmen have shown them-
“selves to be promising material and also

"year who are likely to land berths.

A fast affair was seen when the Juniors
hooked up with the Fresh, although the lowly
tribe lost by a 31-17 score. The game was
fast throughout and the Freshmen uncovered

their points from a distance with great ac-
curacy.
The fast Junior team jumped to the lead

went through them making his short shots
with uncanny regularity and the smaller op-
ponents could not get him covered.

The Freshmen were weak on the defense
and could not sufficiently penetrate the
Junior defense and had td resort to long
shots for the majority of their points. They
brought out a small but exceedingly fast
team which should give the upper-classmen
trouble when they get into better shape.
Mauzy, Pritchett and McGavock showed up
best for the Fresh. Calhoun and Hall were
the chief scorers of the Junior team, while
MacAulay played a good defensive game.

Juniors, Pos. Fresh, |
Kiiglet (Cl) peso ss eee eons Pritchett (5)
R F
Withers (2) oi ee McGavock (4)
L, F.

Galhoun= (21) es2sseeeee Baker (2)
C.

Hall (4) -----.--------------. Mauzy (6)
R.G
MacAulay:.(3) <seseewsecusnocowouu Brown
L. G.

Substitutions — Juniors: Shaw,

Penn, Smith, Taylor, and Osheik.
Freshmen: Smith, Moore, Wilkins.
Referee: Wilson. :

Irving,

Comparative scores mean so little, but
still, Davidson beat Elon 26 to 0 while State

Calhoun and |

a wealth of material, dropping if most of |

at the beginning of the game and Calhoun |
proved too much for’ the Freshmen as he |

N ISBET PLAYS WELL

White and Beatty Star for Visitors |

. —Bohannon, Kell and Arrowood
—_ Davidson Luminaries

In the second home game of the season the
Wildcats had no great difficulty in trouncing
the Guilford Quakers Saturday afternoon
by a 23-0 score. The locals started the game
with a rush, scoring two touchdowns early
in the first quarter and after this the struggle
slowed up perceptibly. :

The game was not as one-sided as the
score indicates, Guilford presenting a strong
offense led by White and Beatty, and they
succeeded in piling up seven first downs, all
|coming in the second and fourth quarters.
Although they made several marches down
the field, they never succeeded in passing the
Wildcats’ twenty-yard strip.

The line-plunging of Mutt Nisbet, Char-
lotte boy, was the outstanding individual fea-
,ture of the afternoon, Time after time
Nisbet rammed the Quaker line for substan-
tial gains, placing the Wildcats in scoring
' positionand scoring the first touchdown of
the game himself on a pass from Sappenfield.
| Bohannon, veteran end, playing his first game
as a tackle, acquitted himself well in his new
position.
| Davidson scored the first touchdown soon
in the first quarter, launching a long drive
down the field with Nisbet bearing the brunt
of the attack. He scored the touchdown on
a 12-yard pass from Sappenfield. Soon after
‘ Charley Harrison took a long pass and raced
30 yards for a touchdéwn. . This was one of
the prettiest plays of the afternoon.

In the second quarter Dick’ Grey booted
| his customary drop-kick and the half ended

with the Wildcats holding a 15-0 lead.

__ A safety in the third period and Sam
Black’s touchdown in the final quarter after
_a drive from mid-field, completed the scor-
|ing for the day,

In the second and fourth quarters Guil-

| ford took the offensive and made several first
| downs by completing three passes and gains
{by White and Beatty, but the Wiidcat line
' stiffened when the goal was neared.
Several of the varsity players were with-
{held from the game by Coach Monk on ac-
{count of minor injuries, but are expected to
be in shape for the State game today.

The summary:

| Guilford Position Davidson

| Ratnish: coossevewes | LO pea ees Pinkney
HEINdleyc asec osu es | CV) Rape ae Bohannon
WTGvlesc see cena PGs Mitchell
| Turner -.-----.-- Gentere. 2225252523 Smith
Bhentescecessearess Resear oe J. Grey
MeWecdoc non soe RD soos oe Maulden
Marshall _~-2------- RB se Ree Arrowood
Beatty 2235 be esas OBeeses Sappenfield
IWiNites fccee. es a ee os ee Keel
Robertson ~.------- RAG ece oe Harrison
Nees oo scab i Bese eeeeue Nisbet

Score by quarters:

Guilfordv2ccs sess sees 000 OO
Davidson ~.-------------- 12 3 2 6—23

Official referee: Izzard (Washington and
Lee) ; umpire: Brice (Auburn) ; headlines-
man: Harrell (Carolina). Subs—Guilford:
Kimrey, Moon, Layton, Rabb, Cox, Trixett,
Finch, Moore.’ Davidson: Leggette, Mc-
Geachey, Christian, Black, Carter, Grey,
Wells, Green, James, Kerr, Baker, Laws,
Davis, Wilson, McEachern, Wearn, and
Allen.
son, Black; dropkick: Dick Grey, and safety.
First downs: Guilford 7, Davidson 14;
ground gained on passes: Guilford 25 yards,
completing 3 out of 8 attempts; Davidson
63 yards, completing 3 out of 8 attempts;
penalties: Davidson 5 yards;° Davidson 60
yards.

'. Andrew Jackson was the only Ameri-

‘| October.

Scoring touchdowns: Nisbet, Harri- |

could only run up a dozen'points against the can President ever to figure as a duelist.
Christians. In 1924 the.Wolfpack and the} Abraham Lincoln was once challenged
Wildcats battled to a 10 to 10 tie at Pine-'by a young. politician and chose as
hurst. Last fall Davidson registered a 9-to-| weapons ~- “cavalry broadswords of the
nothing victory on Richardson field. As we | largest: size,” but the affair was called off.
have said, though, comparative scores are} .

them out. We look for a close game today.! gas in killing mosquitoes.

Furman Fresh Open
Wildkitten Season

emma oer 3g
The Davidson Wildkittens will stage their
initial contest against the “Purple Breeze”
from Furman on next Saturday, the 16th of
The game will be called promptly
at 3:00 o'clock, on Richardson Field.

The Wildkittens have much to avenge
themselves of, since last year the game ended
with a 42 to 0 victory in favor of the Fur-
man Freshmen.

The one-sided contest last year spelled de-
feat for the Davidson men, but the teams
this year will be more evenly matched, with
a fair chance of victory for the Wildkittens.

The Wildkittens boast a line which bids
fair to refute all opposition. From tackle to
tackle it weights in the neighborhood of 175
pounds, which is a great improvement over
last year. With the line of such phenomenal
weight together with their fast, hard-driving
backfield, the Wildcat Cubs should make a
creditable showing next Saturday afternoon.

It should not be overlooked that Furman
have in Case, their half-back, an all-South-
ern man. The “Purple Breeze” has played
one game, while the Wildkittens will be taking
the field for their first college football game.
The Erskine College Freshmen defeated the
team from Furman in a hot contest by a close
score.

The Wildkittens have the prospects of one
of the best tedms in years. On the squad are
men who came to Davidson with a reptuation
of being star prep school players. The squad
has been practising since the opening of
school and is .in good shape for the game
Saturday. They have furnished opposition
for the varsity on several occasions and so
‘impressed Coach Monk Younger that he
said he believed they were stronger on the
defence than Guilford or »Elon.

g
The probable line-up is:

Toei tend eee sree ie ise Se Hampton
ett aokle: conc s oe ace eee Carson
Mert. Guardi soso Sel ee eee Hunt
Cetitenese ere aio oss Re DeArmon
Right Guard --_--=---__- DeCamp or Gavin
Right: Tackle.-2 222-252 2258 2 McConnell
Rightsbnds so. Sees eee Mills or Dobbins
Ollartetiss cose soe ee een Hammet
Rightiblal ice 222 cs we ceas lene Goodman
Left Half: 22222252 Matthews or Christian
RullsBack: osncese este

Brohard or King

The nerve centers which react to music
are in ‘the feet, according to the Swiss
scientist, Hoepli. This explains; he says,
why we tap time to music with our feet.

V. M. I. GAME AT.
LYNCHBURG

The Davidson-V. M. I. football
game scheduled for October 30, on V.
M. I.’s campus, at Lexington, Virginia, ~
has been changed and will be played
at Lynchburg. V. M. I. officials ask-
ed for a change and it was granted by
Davidson. At Lynchburg the game
will draw a larger crowd and better
gate receitps.

Spurlock Sets Pace in
Scoring Among Players

Lenoir-Rhyne Back Tops Collegiate
Scoring With 30-Point Totals

Although he failed to figure in the scoring
of any of-his team’s three touchdowns against
Milligan College Saturday, Spurlock, stellar
Lenoir-Rhyne back, continues to show the
way to gridders of the state’s colleges with
a total of 30 points, represented by five
touchdowns. Cathey, Duke star, Saturday
added a pair of touchdowns to his total and
now trails Spurlock by but five points by
virtue of his quartet of touchdowns and one
extra point. Bill Riley, Wake Forest end, .
rounds out the contingent above the 20 mark,
the fleet-footed wingman having credit for
four touchdowns, all the result of passes
from Beckley or James.

Leggette, of Davidson, also was among the
non-scoring element Saturday and his total
remains at 18. Cox, Lenoir-Rhyne, leads
extra-point scorers with seven “singles,” and
ranks fifth in scoring with a total of 13,
which also includes’ a touchdown and one
field goal.

Grey Boasts Good Toe

Dick Grey, Wildcat back, leads the pack
with goals from the field, having sent three
successful efforts through the uprights. This,
with one safety and an extra point, gives
Grey a total of one dozen points and puts
him among the seven players knotted for
sixth place. :

Dick Gurley’s Lenoir-Rhyne “Mountain
Bears” boast the only uncrossed goal line in
state collegiate circles. The Lutherans also
lay claim to the highest scoring machine,_
with a total of 90 points in three games. The
Davidson Wildcats top the “Big Five” with
a total of 76 points in four games and also
show a good defense with but one touchdown
scored against them in three contests. Duke
ranks next in scoring with 71 points, and the
Blue Devils have had but one toychdown and
a safety counted against them.

The individual scoring figures, showing
touchdowns, extra points, and field goals,
follow:

Spurlock, L-R ------- 5 _— — 30

Td. Ex.Pt. F.G. T.P.
Cathey, Duke ------- 4 1 — 25
Riley, W-F --------- 4 — — 24
Leggette, Dav ------- 3. — so) 18
Coxse Re aes eos 1 7 1 16
D. Grey, Dav ------- — 1 SZ
Wells, Dav --------- 2 —_— — 12
Black, Dav ----- S22 —-. — 12
Grigg, Duke -------- 2 — _— 12
Adams; Duke -.---- 2 — — 12
Ober,’ W-F --.------ 2 — — 12
Paseur, L-R ~------- 2 — — 12
Nisbet, Davy _.------ 1 1 —_— 7
Young) (Gar 222-2 1 — — 6
Outen, State --.----- lL, - — 6
Bolich, Duke ------- FS eee 6
‘Bruton, Duke -.---- 1 — a 6
Frank, Duke -_-.---- 1 — — 6
McConnell, Davy --.. 1 —_— —_ 6
Harrison, Dav ~----- 1 —_ — 6
Owlel-Re 2oc2455222 1 — — 6
Goulter, L-R ~---.--- 1 — at 6
Whisenhunt, L-R ---- 1 — — 6
Rhodes, L-R ------- 1 — — 6
Hodges, L-R -------- 1 —_— — 6
McDowell, State --_._. — 1 1 4
Ridenhour, State _-._. — _— 1 3

Others who have scored only extra points,
and the number of pgints scored, follow:
James, W-F, 3; Bohannon, Dav, 2; Bennett,

|,Duke, 4; Allen, Dav, 1; Rackley, W-F, 1;

Hodge, L-R, 2.
*Total includes one safety.

Please comein and
examine our fine

—Fhis-game-at-Lynchburg-wilt-be-the-
first inter-collegiate game to be played
at the new municipal stadium in that
city. Lynchburg has worked hard to
get the game and indications are that
there will be a large crowd of football
enthusiasts when the two teams take
the field.

line of Stationery.

(eo. C. Goodman & Co.

Mooresville, N. C.

Union Th

A.

eological Seminary

Richmond, Virginia

Introducing to the readers of the Davidsonian
REV. BENJAMIN R. LACY, Jr., D. D..

_ D.D. of Davidson, 1919

B. of Davidson, 1906

