4

THE DAVIDSONIAN,

JANUARY 21, 1926 ‘

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press

Association

thern Collegiat
Association

Member of S Press

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year
ater sea

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH...-----.-..---
HAROLD D. BURKE...---.---..---

EDITORIAL STAFF

Editor

W. H. BRANCH. M i
L. D. WHARTON.....__..--...--Assistant Managing Editor
P. F. JONES... Assistant Managing Editor
W. E. MILTON. Gasteecee Athletic Editor
R. B. KE Associate Editor
A. Y. BOWIE....----- Associate Editor
A. H. HOLLINGSWOR
GARNETT M
J. B. WEBB.
F. K. BELL,

Business Staff
Bye DisBURK Wisevs corse saverdisssccauceasus Business Manager

W. HO LYNCH

’ iS Assistant Business Manager
V. S. BROYLES... -

Assistant Business Manager

H. Y. ALEXANDER... .--.-Circulation Manager
E. D. WITHERSPOON--. -Supscription Manager
Eee DOU GUASS icuerscccape secede oe toe estesteteescte Assistant
JULIAN LAKF...- Service Department
M. P. CRAWFORD_..- 4 ..--------Assistant

Reporters’ Club

G. M. EDDINGTON, Pres. T. T. JONES

V. S. BROYLES, V.-Pres W. L. LINGLE

C. C. MURCHISON, Sce.-Treas. B, MARTIN

W. H. ALLISON R. H. McILWAITINE

H. M. AUSTIN J. P. McKNIGHT
C. L. BRAGAW H. LL. SHELBY
D, M. CALHOUN A. M. SPARROW

W. T. COVINGTON

W. T. DAVIS

W. S. GORDON

JOHN GWIN

J. F. HOLLINGSWORTIT

J. G. WHARTON
BR. WILSON

C. WITHERS
W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

THE GIRL OF TODAY

There is no doubt about it; womanhood is
rapidly emerging from the chrysalis in
which she was-eonfined by the traditions and
stupidity of past ages. We hear much of
the new womanhood, of the modern girl, of
the flapper and her consorts.

It is not usual to find the editorial page of
men’s college newspapers devoted to a dis-
cussion of the girls of today. But with
most college men, the-subject of girls is of
second and even first importance. There is
no gainsaying this fact—observe the waking
hours ofthe collegian, and then it is apparent
that not even football and examinations
overshadows in his mind the subject of
womanhood.

Perhaps this is a good sign. At any rate
it is enevitable. The life of practically
“every man is so entwined with that of some
Woman or women, that the cause of his
devotion to this subject is easily understood.
Much has been written concerning the
startling independence and the apparent de-
cline in manners and morals of this younger
generation. Against the girls of today has
this fire particularly been aimed. The flap-
per and her prototypes have received most
of ‘this verbal and printed barrage. And the
college boy has not escaped. To some he is
the symbol of flaming youth and daring
dare-deviltry beyond compare.

But it is with the girls that we are con-
cerned, And it is with some idea of justi-
fication of their status that we write. One
gets tired of listening to a never-ending
tirade of abuse heaped in their directions.

Since primeval times womanhood has
been more or less thought of as subservient
to man. Their place was decidedly on the
back seat of the band wagon. When a man
became famous no credit was ever given to
his wife. Women were too often the play-
things of their lords, rather than intelligent,
thinking companions and helpmates.

Women were bound down by the conven-
tions. Even today this has not entirely dis-
appeared. We are glad, however, that they
have asserted their independence—for it
was sure to come sooner or later anyway.

The girl of 1926 is not radically different
from the countless thousands of generations
that have preceded our time. A _ misin-
formed person might describe the modern
girl as a disgraceful looking object, wear-
ing knee-length skirts, flimsy clothes, arti-
ficial complexions, hair like a man’s and
various other external evidences that'tend to
-prove she is a person of no brains.

The change in women’s dress has come
about only through our changing times.
The advent of women into business where
she is placed on the same level with men,
calls for sensible clothes. Imagine a stenog-
rapher who has only a few minutes for
lunch rushing about clad in poke bonnet,
cinoline, and all the various others regalia of

grandmother’s day. Times such as these
demand changes in the old accepted order of
things. :

They have found out that bobbed hair is
far easier to manage than the long tresses
of which poets raved.

Several hours a week, which were for-
merely spent in laborious curling, tying and
combing of hair, is now saved by merely
clipping ones locks. Surely the men do not
begrudge them that. Cosmetics, if right-
fully and judiciously used, enhance almost
any girl’s natural appearance, and it is to
her own advantage as well as every one
else’s to make the most of what beauty God
has given her.. Personally, we’d rather see
a pair of blooming cheeks direct from a
drug store than scrawny, pasty complexions
that may be as pure as a well-known soap,
but which lack any appeal.

And speaking of short skirts, it is our
belief that they are far more sensible than
any other previous costumes. And. fewer
clothes, allow the body to partake of more
exercise, and to retain it natural youthful
lines. Short skirts are hygignic and sen-
sible.

Certain prudes decry the fact that girls
expose so much of their bodies and that
they are losing the modesty which is wom-
anhood’s chief charm. This is not true. True
modesty is in the mind and has no definite
deadline on the body. There has been too
much foolishness of this sort in the years
past. It was not discovered until the
twentieth century that women had such
things as ankles, and not until 1910 that they
actually had two legs the same as men.
False modesty or prudery is injurious to
any people,

The girl of today is taking a more active
part in the affairs of the world. She is
entering all ranks of business and profes-
sions. She craves education the same as
her brother. She is better informed and
self-reliant. She does not swoon and call
for the smeeling salts at the sight of some-
thing disagreeable.

In short, she is more attractive and lov-
ae than ever. Here’s tothe girls of to-
day.

ATTEND VESPERS

The large attendance at “Y” last Sunday
night was most gratifying. A popular and
capable speaker such as Pat Crawford
could not fail to draw a large crown to hear
his talk, But the spirit of the entire student
body seems to be changing for the better,
even with such a great speaker as Craw-
ford, it was an unusually large crowd. It
is hoped that this spirit will continue on
through the rest of the year as many noted
and interesting speakers have been obtained,
men that will improve and lift up the spirit
of Davidson. During the fall, attendance at
the vespers dropped off, but with the inter-
esting program of speakers that have been
selected, the attendance at all the spring
services should be much larger than for-
merly.

With the acquisition of a place that the
“Y” workers can truly call their own, and
which will be arranged and kept for the
entertainment of the students, interest in
the Y. M. C. A. should increase. The work
of the secretary has been most fruitful dur-
ing the first part of this year and with more
co-gperation from the students, this should
prove to be the most spiritually profitable
year in the history of Davidson College.

D

_ Today is the first day of exams, so stick
in there and fight ’em, so we will all be back
a hundred per cent after the reports come in»

D

The exodus of the seniors has already be-
gun. The goal of a grade of ninety has
been achieved by many and they have been
rewarded with a little vacation for their
hard work.

Minor Chords

REALIZATION

Immeshed in webs of true loves, untried trust
Which spinning forth from Amor’s wing it gleams
Of spongy carpets, drapes in siklen streams,
Faint orchid bloom from urn of ivory crust
In hue made wan by pale lights stenciled thrust.
Of Cytherie’s charm of form she seems,
Protruding pedestaled for Hymen’s themes.
Then Gothic doors; an ideal gone to dust
Stikes white steel sparks of realisation, keen
To shatter faith, a ship flung out to sea,
A shadow cast, some bitter herbs to glean
I Stygian fields; sane reason prone to flee.
Chained on doubt’s fiery lake with galdy spleen
To curse a happiness which was to be.

Philip C. Shook.

Check Monk maintains that Geology is
the rockiest course on the hill.

)

= Se

Intercollegiate Notes

An annual “Garter Day” is held at California
Tech. This year it was found that only five
freshmen wear them. One ultra-collegiate was
found wearing one garter.

The Student Council at North Carolina Univer-
sity has taken the same action as Davidson Col-
lege in regard to passing bad checks. Through
this efficient system the number of bad checks
passed by the students has greatly decreased.

The college and university enrollment in the
United States totals 602,000 students. The num-
ber is 73 per cent as many as have been graduated
from American colleges in the last three hundred
years,

A student at Stanford University, defying the
high price of railroad transportation, picked up a
hearse at a bargain and took seven of his friends
to their homes in Los Angeles to spend the holi-
days.

A student at the University of Kansas recently
refused an offer to join the Phi Beta Kappa. He
said he didn't think high grades were a true in-
dication of scholarship; he gave this as his ex-
cuse, saying that he didn’t approve of cramming
for high grades. a

A bad habit in which a
dents indulge is the habit
ing is the root of all evil
standard inthe eyes of all those who have suffi-
cient intelligence. The habit of gossip is some-
times from carelessness, but nevertheless it con-
veys great effects. There is a civil law now which
provides a fine for libel, and gossip is as bad in
school as it is elsewhere—Queens Blues.

great number of stu-
of gossiping. Gossip-
and should be a low

The Carolina Playmakers are on an extended
tour presenting three plays at each place. The
plays are “Quare Medicine,” “Fixin’s,” and “Gains
and Gains, Jr.”

The Seniors at N. C. State wanting a distinctive
costume on the campus have chosen to wear canes
and derbies. The cane, if heavy enough, ought to
be useful in keeping off admirers of the derbies,

All dances at the University of North Carolina
have been suspended until after the spring holi-

days. This action was taken on account of the
unsatisfactory conduct at the Thanksgiving
dances. ;

D
DO YOU CRAVE COMPANIONSHIP?

Does the presence of a member of the fair sex
cause your CARDIACAL organ to PALPITATE?
Can you hold your own on the divan, or even in
a crowd? Can you discuss intelligently the color
of Red Grange’s eyes, or the Einstein theory. Do
you know the latest and the earliest things in
women's dres§? Can you tell a good egg from a
BAD one? If NOT—Read our book on SUCCESS.

Howard ULIKE AHOTTUN, prominent Florida
real estate man and bootlegger, writes: “I have
read practically all of your book except the ads
and would not take a Miami lot for it. Before
learning how to be a SUCCESS, I was afraid to
go out with the girls, and often had to walk back
from rides. But due to your never-to-be-praised-
enough book. I captivated a fair damsel with
red hair and buck teeth, and am now the blush-
ing father of triplets. My wife was a telephone
operator. I make lots of jack by selling gills of
liquor and hills of real estate. I urgently urge all
men who desire to become famous as I have done,
to step right up and get a copy of your book.
You know me, Al.”

D.
MAC AUSTIN’S LATEST SAYING
Do not attempt to make an exhaustive estima-
tion as to the population of your juvenile poultry
until the process of incubation has thoroughly
materialized.

Said a shiek in Wilmington Del.
“Fate's unkind to our sex, I’m wel
For the girls wear men’s clothes
X. Y. Z’s and chapeauz,

But what feminine duds can a fel?

Anne Nichol’s latest song hit:
my Abie.

Logan Lovelace stuck the end of a joke book in
his little brother, Hiram’s eye. Little Hiram ran
to his father and told him,

“Look here, young man,” said Mr. Lovelace,
“Don't you poke fun at your little brother.”

Yessir, that’s

Most flappers diet only for conversational pur-
poses.

Ivory used to be used in the making of statues.
Now they use it in the making of statutes.

Room—‘Will this hairtonic really grow hair?”

Mate—“Will it! Why Pop spilt some on the
oilcloth one night, and the next morning it was
a rug.”

NO CHARGES
P

Liquid pools of amber:

Star-lit skies and moonshine.

Vain cruel and inconvement world,
Cobblestone streets and oak trees.
Oh! Heck! Ye gods.

Ah-h-h-h! Darn,

Purple sizzling drunken goldfish—
Cock-eyed!

II

Honeysuckle, hotcakes, hysteria—
Sparkling opaqueness, alliteration.
Trimmed wings of jailbirds.
Violets—hysteria !

Millions of dollars and sloppy mud—
Sickening, slimy tobacco juice.

No spitting on the rugs;

Stop! Go! Don’t park here.

Well, well, well, well.

III
Silken shimmering unmentionables
Oh, deliver me, incantatory silhouettes.
Superannuated sunfish. Grits‘and gravy
Sickening mounds of beans.
From the gutter to Paradise—
Raven black hair; eyes, eyes!
Entrancing, charms, je ne sais quoi!
Love you: love me? Yes. Please.
Who says I can’t write free verse?

Since we are getting literary, take a look at
this little masterpiece that was unearthed in the
ruins of an old hosiery mill about three hundred
miles from London. Some critics and students
have pronounced it the work of Chaucer, but
there are others who are not so sure about it.
Judge for yourself.

YE KNOCKOUT OF YE KNOCKOUT

A comely maide was Genevieve and prettilie
Sate she in ye cosy-corner under ye bower

Of wandering hysteria, near to ye publick path.
She sate and read ye late edition of ye

Noble “Bang-Bang.” Now chaunce had

Passing bye should come ye lad yclept
3artholmew, eldest sone of ye worthie

Lord Woofingtonn de PIP-pip.

| This lad Bartholomew, was knowne through

Ye entyre countie as ye hotte knockout

In winning hearts of ye ladies faire.

So up praunced he and by ye pretty maide

Did strutte, and flourish ye handkerchief

Of silk, laden with ye cologne de Hoyt.

With a twirle of ye rattan cane, and ye blond

Mustache, quothe he, “Ah there, Arabella, Heigh,
ho!” :

“Sir!” retaliated she, “’tis not my name, and

You've never had ye knock down to me!”

Ye sone of ye duke put on a wicked sneer.

“Forsoothe! gadcooks!. egad Ye highe hatte

Will not fit this noble head o’ mine!

You are but the daughter of ye stableman;

And, shouldst I say, will date with me! So.”

Ye hard lad grabbed ye jane in sinewy arms

Making ye attempt to kiss ye rose-bud lips.

“Heh, heh!” laughed he, “I have you now.”

chug! chug! phut! phut! phut! bang!

“Not so!” cried young Wilberforce, ye local
spede cop.

' “Unhand that dame, or by ye ingrown toenail

Of Mohamet, I'll sock you one with
Ye monkeye wriench!” “Begone, swine of a
Cop. begone!” sez he. “SOCK!” replied ye
Monkeye wriench, making ye contact with
Bartholomew. “—eight, nine, ten, ye knockout!
Oh! my Wilberforce, you've saved me, my love!”
Smacke.

(Slow Curtain).

Advertisement in Davidson:
SHEET MUSIC
OLDEST IN THE STATE

Author—“Where is that sonnet that I wrote. I
believe little Dorothy has thrown it in the fire.”

Wife—“Don't be silly, Fred, you know she can’t
read.”

Ad in Charlotte Observer:
“B. V. please come home to papa—D.”

Harold Burke called his rooster Robinson be-
cause he crew so.
South Carolina motto for the new year is
“Bigger and Better Butter and Egg Men.”
IN FLORIDA
It’s always fair weather when real estate men

get together.
—KABLE.
