THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 4, 1926

Calendar

Thursday, November 4:
7 :30—Eumenean Literary Society.

Campus Sport Continues

7 :30—Philanthropic Literary Society.
8 :30—Pandeinic Literary Society.

Friday, November 5: to Attract Great Crowd
7 :00—Band Practice—Armory.

7 :30—Glee Club Practice—Shearer Hall.
8 :15—International Relations Club.
9 :00—Alpha Phi Epsilon.

Saturday, November 6:

3 :00—-Football—Hampden-Sidney vs.
vidson, Charlotte.

Several Contestants Injured But
Numbers Still Play

Campus football continues to lead all other
sports in popularity among the Davidson stu-
dents this season. The addition of many more
players on both teams has made the local
sport intensely interesting, and the habit of

|those students who frequent the campus in
| the

Da-

Sunday, November 7:

10:15—Student Volunteer
Hall. and

10 :00—Sunday School—Students’ Class. watching the game as it proceeds has caused

z11:15—Church—Dr. B. R. Lacy, Richmond. | quite a bit of comment among faculty and
1:45—Christian Endeavor Training Class | student body. ,

—Shearer Hall.
2 :30—Ministerial Band—Shearer Hall.
6:15—"Y” Vesper Service—Dr. Laey.

Monday, November 8:

7 :15—Services in Shearer—Dr. Lacy.
8:15—Court of Control.

8 :15—Glee Club practice—Shearer Hall.
9 :00—Omicron Delta Kappa.

Tuesday, November 9: by two broken fingers and is now showing
7 :15—Services in Shearer—Dr. Lacv. up well. The presence of the fast Bud Guth-
8:00—Meeting of Chairmen of Junior lery has been greatly missed during the last

Week Committees. few days. The of
8:15—Band Practice—Armory. been lessened to an astounding degree by his
8 :30—Sigma Pi Sigma.

9 :00—Beaver Club.
9 :00—Delta Pi Kappa.
Wednesday, November 10:
7 :15—Services in Shearer—Dr, Lacy.
8 :15—Glee Club praetice—Shearer Hall,
9 :00—Scabbard and Blade.

Band—Shearer

afternoons of dropping around

| The fact that this style of
football is characterized by sweeping end
runs, brilliant forward passes, innumerable
drop-kicks and a high score makes the con-
test all the more thrilling.

Several players who sustained injuries in
the early stages of the football season have
returned to the grid.
pletely recuperated from the injuries suffered

Dick Kane has com-

stamina his team has
Fresh Gardner has shown
up exceptionally well recently and it is ex-
pected that he will give many a good player
a fight for his place on Bill Story’s team of
twenty-seven fighting fleet-foots.

A new factor has entered the field of late.
The third floor of East's triple threat cos-
mopolitan team has leaped into the limelight
and succeeded in frightening off all foes with

continued absence.

Yen cows are kept in a shed in the
heart of London. They are milked twice :

giving approximately 160 quarts. defeat all comers,
of milk, When taken to the country they
run about ill at ease, unaccustomed to the
green grass underfoot,

their presumptuous challenge to‘ meet and
daily, This team was scheduled
to play against a picked team from the entire
student body last Saturday afternoon, but
through the kindness: of each member of the
team it was arranged for the game to be
evcccccccccvccccccccccccccccccccccsccscece | Paved carly this week in order that an ade-
$ | quate crowd could be gotten to pay the man-
FOR THAT TASTE OF ‘ ;agement for getting the play-by-play returns
from the Davidson-V. M. I. contest staged in
| Lynchburg, Va., on that date.
Everyone awaits with eagerness the out-
| come of this challenge in general.

Home Cooking On Your
Way Home

New York Cafe

29 West Trade St. CHARLOTTE, N.C.

| DOCTOR BEN LACY

(Continued trom page 1)

of Atlanta, one of the most important pulpits
‘ in the entire South.
$,ed to the presidency of Union Theological
*! Seminary, a position left vacant by the death
of Dr. Walter Moore.

These evangelistic services mark the high
spot in Y. M. C. A. activities on the campus
this fall. During this time a special effort
is made to have all men to come to a definite
conclusion concerning their life work. The
coming series of meetings will prove of won-
derful value on this account.

Last spring he was call-

Charlotte
Transfer Company

PHONE 298 THE DAVIDSONIAN TO

REWARD REPORTERS

(Continued from page 1)
This, however, will not mitigate against the
chances of members of the business staff,
who are equally eligible to share in the
award,

The contest will officially open next week
with the choice of the best article from the
present issue of The Davidsonian, and will
continue until the change of editors in the an-
nual eletcions next spring.

BAGGAGE
AND TAXI
SERVICE

JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

—
—

ws

Reduction

Dyeing, Cleaning, Pressing, Altering
WHO'S WHO in service and auality ?
CITY DRY CLEANERS

on MOORESVILLE, N. C.

TICKETS!

Ask any customer--24 hour service
Branch Office, 21 Rumple
<<

BRADY PRINTING CO.
COLLEGE PRINTERS

Stationery, Books, Greeting Cards

Branch Mgr. Harllee Bordeaux.

STATESVILLE, N. C.

FIRE BELL’S CLANGING
~ AROUSES A

_day morning by the raucous ringing of the fire

of the Central Avenue Presbyterian Church, ,

‘Chameleon Will be
LL STUDENTS Out November 9th

The November issue of The Chameleon
will be out November oth. The editorial
and business staffs are endeavoring to

‘

‘Fire Department Valiantly Rushes
to Blazing Edifice

make the magazine this year the best in
its history and have succeeded in mak-

; i ing several notable improvements in_ its
Portions of the student body were aroused ae ae ul notable ‘my ita Wh ke

at the unearthly hour of 3:00 a.m. Thurs- make-up,

The issue will be featured by a new
cover designed by W. A. Sprout, Char-

alarm. Some immediately went back to sleep, i iM X tk

thinking it was the rising bell, others arose, lotte aidbdahe The tulle abel beautitul
dressed, and went in search of the fire, still design of the columns of old Chambers
others merely arose and went in search of and will be printed in two colors on

the fire—a fact regretted exceedingly later autumn-gold paper, :
All students will receive a copy of the

on,
ae magazine from funds taken from the
There was a race and scramble to see who . i
: : campus tax, Extra copies may be ob-
would have the coveted honor of breaking ‘ ; ;
tained at the regular price of thirty

the glass case containing the key to the fire-
house. The glass was broken in the fight, and
an argument ensued as to who was guilty.
The argument was tabled until after the fire
and the meeting went into the more pleasant
The & Oy Vs

cents an issue. Anyone out of the stu-
dent body desiring subscriptions should
write Supseription Manager, The Chame-
leon, Box 390, Davidson, N. C.

: ates The November issue of the Chameleon
‘part of the night's program.

a es HP Gis Sane will include literary productions com-
C. boys grabbed their favorite fire-fighting | . ; rept: I '
: in ing exclusively from the three upper
instruments and the search started. The . 2 rae ey
: ; classes. All future issue will in addition
blaze was presently treed in one of the lower ; : ‘
to this contain work of freshmen, Ma-

stories of Goodrum's Department Store, on
Main street.

Fire Marshal Short now came to the front
and made an estimate of the situation in the

will dur-

ing the first of December.
FLYING SQUADRON
(Continued from page 1)
Undaunted by reverses, the Wildeats came

issue which appear2 some time

true military manner, while the boys who
were musically inclined rendered: “Fireman!
Fireman! Save My Chee-ild!” in a most
touching At conclusion
Marshal Short gained control of his voice

manner, its Fire

Vive i

long enough to make a short and inspiring |. ‘ : : :
8 8 ° l Cadets’ two-yard line after a 34-yard drive,

speech, finishing with the inspiring words :
“Save the the children first.”
Then he seized a bucket of water in each
hand and rushed into the blazing building on-
ly to reappear immediately in a great state of
excitement the
Removing thea@bal-scuttle which served. him

hut they lacked the man-power to shove the
women and

big boys from Lexington aside, and thus lost
their chance to win the game.
Barnes and Nabors were a combination on

passes that thrilled the thousands of people

minus buckets and water.

terial should be coming in now for the)

back strong in the third stanza, and played |
off their feet, advancing to the |

several times and these two men were re-
sponsible for V. M. I.’s win, Barnes acting
as field general, while both gained most of
the Cadets’ ground from all angles of the
game.

Leggette featured for Davidson until he
was injured in the second quarter. He was
hurt when he scored Davidson’s touchdown.
all linesmen of the two
teams, breaking through twice in the fourth
for two ten-
Boggs, Davidson guard, was an-
The line-up and summary :

Lincoln outshone

quarter and throwing Barnes
yard losses.

other line star.

Ve Ma Po
Pai CG) anassanee Loe; Davidson
PEUIN udastasueandua el) enesacueew Mine
CABGEY vaewwanw aww lol ‘eauw awn dirae Lincoln
PRON sicsnwun GAN scdcacduns Mitchell
mii) 1; Gi aecawe UNG enue nue McConnell
Ls Ha 1 Fata cea ae Boggs
NIURE cease suaed ae, el neeaueees ae hitche
ATION dehdbnwnewe OG aeunuuke Arrowood
MAING? 25655 scone LD wagwawe Sappenfield
NALUIE cécosnuvkae eld suseuunn CO) NV OE
WaltG! ununuskanwx PH cuscwevace Dy aley
Score by quarters :
MiMi lictuensmeeuvausese. 0 le <0. Uelg
DDAVIGGH: ceeuusacowuns we 700 O-7
Scoring touchdowns: Barnes (V. M. 1),
2; Leggette (Davidson). | Substitutions :

V. M.1.: Yates for Fain, Gfroerer for Har-
;ner, Smith for J. C. Smith, Fain for Yates:
| Davidson: Leggette, Bo-
Law for Mitchell, Har-
rison for Goodykoontz, Maulden for Lincoln,
Boggs

Bist,

Goodykoontz tor

jhannon for Pinkney

Nisbet for Harrison, MceColgan for
Pinkney for Bohannon, Mitchell for Laws,
Mauidin, MeGeachy for Arro-
wood, Bohannon for MeGeachy, Wilson for

Lineoln for

| Sappenfield, Boses vor MetColgan, J. Grey
for Boggs, MeCelgan for Mitchell, Harrison
j}for Wells, Wear

Officials :

|

| : ;
| tor Pinkney.
|

sini ; umpire:

Carongtoa . CVire
(Stalbans)-. head
linesman: Arnold (Virginia).

Referee:

Samson

from him, he |
forthwith began to jump up and down and |’

as a helmet and casting it

utter cries of rage and disappointment mixed |
with language positively shocking for one of
his age. Several interpid spirits decided to |
investigate and so utterly disregarding the
thin wisp of smoke which still curled from
the tep of the door, they dashed inside pos- |
sibly to a fiery grave. (At this time the |
ladder company arrived—with Pyrene ex: |
tinguishers). The crowd lit cigarettes, swap- |
ped to the other foot and waited in an agony |
of suspense. (The chemical company came |
lup with the hose-cart, closely followed by |
the guard company with buckets).
Several minutes
comrades discarded their |

minutes passed as are
wont to do. Their
gum, organized a rescue party, and filed |
solemnly into the building. (Just the |
salvage and hose companies came up with |°
the ladders). The daring few were found |
ranged in a semi-circle, watching in awed |

as

silence the actions of a person who held the |
| centervof the floor. The latter held a garden |
hose in one hand and his trousers up with |
the other—a perfect picture of what the |
well-dressed man should wear to a fire. He |
nonchalantly squirted water from the hose | :
on a large and very empty hole with charred |
edges which occupied the foreground. This |
wonderful person at length turned off the
water and amid the cheers of the assembly
| (for ’twas none other than Lord Helper of
laundry fame) told simple words the |
story of his heroism, At this point the
owners of the endangered building might
have come forward and passed around |
medals and generous. gifts but
came the hose boys to announce that |
they would be ready to begin operations |
as soon as their captain returned with the |
plug-wrench and nozzle which had been |
left in the, fire-house through mistake. |
The gathering ignored them completely, |
inspected the hole in the floor, listened to |
stories of the discovery and extinction of
the flame—already beginning to take on)
great length and profuseness of detail— |
then returned to the street to hunt up)
their bedroom-slippers and so back to |
bed.

Next morning it

instead |

that.
low |

discovered
persons of very
| moral fibre had taken advantage of the)
time of public danger and the resulting |
| excitement and relaxation of vigilance |
on the part of the police force (it is even |
|rumored that the force attended the fire
| without its chewing tobacco and spent a |
| very miserable gyening) on account of |
this relaxation of vigilance the said low |
| characters went so far as to thraw chew- |
| ing gum wrappers on the street.
|
| Smoky atmosphere due to forest fires
| is credited with having helped this year’s
| apple crop in British Columbia, as it
prevented the direct rays of the sun from
| drying the soil when there was a scarcity

yas

some person or

rives.

Smart Stuled Clothes For College Men,
eying

And fresh daily—almost like
your favorite fruit.

Braeburn is forever sending
us new things - the very last
word in original collegiate
ideas - until the next one’ ar-

MELLON’S

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

| of rain,
