THE DAVIDSONIAN,

SEPTEMBER 16, 1926

The Davids

onian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

~ Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

at the Post Office ‘of Davidson as Mail “Matter of

-Entere

\ SUBSCRIPTION RATES: —
19 Cents per Copy: $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

HARLLEE_ BRANCH, JR.-...--.---------..--Fditor-in-Chief
VERNON S. BROYLES.......:.-.......... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
pidaconutasetauen Managing
it Managing

W. _L. LINGLE...
BOYCE MARTIN-

Editor
Fditor

-| ‘efficient method of selectivity would remedy

| this defect. It is also true to a limited ex-

| tent that many American and English col-
leges are stressing athletics to the subor-
dination of the intellect and personality of
the student, but this evil is also capable of
an easy remedy.

Statistics show that the majority of our
leaders in every walk of life have come out
of these institutions, and-despite Mr. Wells’
well-meant criticism, the colleges and uni-
versities of our land will continue to pro-
duce the leadership of the industrial and
professional worlds. Meanwhile, the lead-
ing thinkers and educators are undisturbed
by the lamentations of our British critic and
are continuing their efforts to discover and
remove the waste in material and methods
and to so modify the life-of the student, the
campus atmosphere, the courses and meth-
ods of instruction as to make student-life a
safe, systematic, and direct route tateader-

F.C, WITHERS -Athletic. Editor re,
A aN a Associate Editor ship in every phase of human usefulness.
o tae whe - onene ----Alumnt Editor Tb is . .
D. M. CALHOUN... “=Rxchange Editor The pathway to achievement will ever
H. L. SHELBY -Htmorous Editor os ' ea yey
WD. M. CALHOUN. : tama Editor | lead through the school room, and years of
W. S. GORDON k Assignment Editor | patient effort and application will always. be
cature AON" Othe price of mental achievement and racial

BUSINESS STAFF _
FE. L. DOUGLASS_-_-_-__.-.---Assistant Business Manager
M. P. CRAWFORD-___---------A tant Business Manager

ssistant Business Manager
-_---Subscription Manager
Circulation Manager

..Service Manager

Vv. L. ALBR
R. S. ABERNE’

Reporters’ Club
W. S. GORDON

JOHN GWIN
T. T. JONES

C. C, MURCHISON
H. M. AUSTIN
W. T. COVINGTON

W. T. DAVIS R. H, McILWAINE
JOHN MORIARTY J. P. McKNIGHT
B. F, McOUEEN eA. M. SPARROW
C. R. LAKE J. G. WHARTON
R. R. KANE B. WILSON

EDITORIAL

Students will do well to re-read the text
of President Martin’s address which is-
printed in this issue. There is much food
for thought contained within the Presi-
dent’s discourse, and many students will
Want to save a copy of his address. — It
abpunds in-good sound advise, worthy of the
serious consideration of all the students,

SSE a yy ae rae

No room for complaint can be found in

some of the single rooms of our dormitories.
D

“Nick” Sappenfield and “Sook” Boggs
back in- the Wildcat line-up—‘Wick” Black
in the infirmary with pneumonia, Just
when we think we can afford to be most
optimistic, something happens to blur our
outlook. Cruel Fate!

D

Students who knew and loved George
Herman Weld will be grieved to hear of his
death during the early summer at his home
at Altamont, N. C. Weld was a member of
the Class of ’28, and his loss is mourned by
his classmates and other students alike. —~

Se typ eee

SHALLOW WELLS

H, G. Wells, brilliant British historian and
learned author, finds his reputation for wis-
dom tottering under an avalanche of criti-
cism which has followed the publication of
his latest article, an editorial in which he
brands Oxford, Cambridge, Harvard and
Yale as “annual cricket, boat-race, baseball
and football centers,” where he declares in-
tellectual activity is subordinated to a main
business of attracting, boarding and amus-
ing adolescents,

His editorial is criticised not so much be-
cause of the radical charges which he brings
against the four leading American and
British institutions of higher education as
it is because of the general indictment
Which he places against all colleges and wni-
versiti¢s. To call four years at college
“wasted” may serve to secure for Mr. Wells
an audience, but if he really intended to
start a movement that would culminate in
the abandonment of the colleges and uni-
versities in America and England his latest
outburst will be as fruitless as those skeptic
articles in which he formerly launched a
vehement attack against marriage, religion,
and established government.

progress. Mr. Wells has waded in too deep-
lv where the sharks of public opinion are
threatening to nibble away at, his tottering
limbs and to some day completely upset his
reputation,

| ‘TO THE NEW MEN

A new page in the book of life has been
opened to the hundreds of freshmen who so
recently passed through the portals of Da-
vidson College and took up their abode in
the dormitories of the campus.

contain the mark of the individual student.
At that time is will be a page to which to-
day’s freshman may turn .with pride and
pleasure or perhaps it may be fraught with
failure and defeat. Each man determines
what shall be written on his page!

Davidson offers bountiful opportunity to
the ambitious student to demonstrate his
abilities and develop his talents. No college
in the world boasts a more consecrated and
inspiring faculty. No college cay claim a
more, democratic and devoted student hody.
What is lacking at Davidson in financial
wealth and equipment is more than made up
for in the wealth of opportunities for the de-

_ velopment of the man, =
In the very beginning the wise freshman

| will “hitch his wagon to a star,” and. will

| aim resolutely toward the achievement of

his chosen goal. Perhaps you will aspire to
athletic prowess, scholastic accomplishment,
social prestige, or oratorical exce!fence. But,
you should not follow any one of these at
the sacrifice of the others. Athletic achieve-
ment will bring you popularity and esteem,
but without a high standard of scholastic
proficiency, you will not be well-rounded.
So it is with the other lines of student’ ac-
tivity. Fach is good, but all are necessary.

At home there are parents and interested
people, who are undergoing great sacritices
that. you may remain in college ‘and secure
the training that will fit you for a place of
usefulness and leadership. They are
gambling on your life, betting on your
ability and your chances of .success—and the
stakes are high! A race horse strains every
fibre of his being to come home a winner for
his backer, surely a human being can do no
less.

Make friends with the boys in your own
class and the other classes, but choose slow-

in your freshman year largely determine
your associates for all four years of your
college life, and to a great extent they will
influence your Whole life. Be sure that vou
pick the men who will inspire you to better
things, don’t? choose the fellows who will
drag you downward. The good and the bad

Some of the things that Mr. Wells hig?

said in his editorials are undoubtedly true,
but he has made a “mountain of a mole-hill.”
In spite of his ruthless criticism of the col-
leges and universities, these institutions .will
continue tO grow and be filled with ambi-
tious and aspiring youth. To place a boy of
15 or 16 years of age in the world to earn a
livelihood, as. Mr. Wells deems expedient,
would mean the placing of the youth of the
land in a position where all of the romance
and idealism of youth would be quickly
swept aside and disastrously supplanted
with the materialism of the world.

It is true that too many men and women
go to college, and that this excess is result-

| are at Davidson just as they are anywhere
| ¢élse.

| Get interested in some definite line of
| student activity, choosing it with an eye to
your future. Follow those pursuits which
will best fit you for your chosen vocation.
If you contemplate law, or the ministry, or
teaching, you will want to join a literary
society and take part in the forensic con-
tests. If your life work is to be business,
you will want to enter into the business
|- work of your college publications: or the
| managership of the college athletic teams.
| Choose carefully and make your progress
steady rather than rapid.

Live within your means! Your fellow
students will admire you more if you do
only those things which you: can afford,
Debt will prove a disastrous worry and liv-
ing beyond your means a costly dissipation.

At no time/ during life is a student better
able to learn himself than during the four
years he spends in college. Study yourself,

C the time of |. :

a lot of mediocre men and women who might

\ better stay at home and produce, but a more
“aes

ferent environments in which you are
placed, seek to discover the influence of dif-

That page’
| is today blank, four years from now it will,

ly and carefully. The friends that you make:

Open Forum

COURTESY

The noise and disturbance that. was so_no-
ticeable among several, groups of upperclass-
men in chapel last Monday morning during the
delivery of the President's annual address leads
The Davidsonian to callvattention at this time
to the need for more courtesy among our
students.

It was both ill-mannered and* disrespectful
for college men to act as some students be-
haved last Monday, and it was a_not-to-be-
desired reflection on the gentlemanly reputation
of Davidson men. Freshmen, just entering
college, might have been excused to some ex-
tent for creating such a disturbance in view ot
the. fact that our freshmen are not yet fully
versed in the Davidson traditions of courtesy
and gentlemanly conduct... But, the disturbance
rasn't created by the freshmen! It was the
sophomores, the juniors, and to some extent
the seniors who persisted in coughing, shuffling
their feet, and in other ways annoying the
speaker.

This practice has within the past few years
become so general as to cause alarm among the
student leaders, who see in this laxity a gradual
breaking-down of one of our proudest tradi-
tions. “Students who persist in the practice -of
interrupting speakers at our chapel exercises
are either ignorant of tradition or purposefully
disrespectful, Either is lamentable!

There are other times when the exuberance
of the students overruns all limits and assumes
an aspect of discourtesy which is both annoy-
ing and insulting, to outsiders. To “boo” a
student who proposes something that does not
meet with your approval, to heckle a fellow-
student whom you do not happen to like, to
beat on the china when a student or a stranger
enters the dining hall with a young lady,. to
creat a hullabaloo when some student passes
near the grandstand with his own or some other
man’s sister, or to yell “fire” from the dormi-
tory windows every time a girl arrives on the
campus, is to show an utter disregard for the
prestige and reputation of your college.

The practice of shouting ‘‘fire” to young lady
visitors, though innocently practiced, is particu-
larly embarrassing and discourteous to those
at whom we shout.” A number of young ladies
from nearby towns refuse to enter the Davidson
campus because they do not wish to be greeted
by a general “fire” alarm, which to them is
both meaningless and disconcerting. Some
students contend that this is a college tradition
and that it is to be excused on that basis. Is

-such-a tradition of such great value that we
would sacrificé our finer tradition of courtesy
that it might endure ?

“Davidson men are gentlemen!” That has
been the proud boast of our ¢ollege since its
founding. Surely we are not to sacrifice it now
for the sake of a lot of babyish and unprofit-
able teasing ! :

ferent associates on your conduct, and if at
the end of four years you have done nothing
more than learn to know yourself, you have
profited much.

Learn also to know your fellow man, and
be careful of the way in which you judge
others. Don’t expect too much from your
associates. If you are not perfect, do not
expect perfection in the fellows with whom
you mingle. Look for the important qual-

by little things that mean nothing. When
you learn to know yourself and also to know
your fellow man, you are capable of leader-
ship, until then your.success will be doubt-
fut: aeerans

Make every minute of every day count
for something !
the end, your page will not be marred by
words of failure. Yours will be success, and
college will have been a profitable, expe-
rience,

No class ever entered Davidson at a more
pfomising time than the Class of ’30. You
are entering Davidson just when the col-
lege is on the threshold of a great transi-
tional era of unparalled growth and de-
velopment. Your class will undoubtedly see
Davidson go from the stage of a “small col-
lege” to that of a much larger institution,
during which time the college will increase
both in its enrollment, in its facilities, and in
its usefulness !

The Davidsonian welcomes you into your
new éstate, and congratulates you on the
privileges you are to enjoy as a student in
the college!

One young girl was seen swimming alongside
of a tug 22 miles out from the English coast the
other day, and as soon as the news’ of this reached
| the hotels at”Calaix, she was shunned as a social
outcast. It is a breach of channel etiq:
swim anywhere near‘a tug, according to the Blue
Book. :

Put first things first, and in’

ities of character, don’t judge your friends. |

ming.

a /

0 db MM ha:

THE OVERFLOWING CHANNEL

English Channel swimming isn’t what it used
to be. A few years ago the world hailed a chan-
nel swimmer as a model of manly brawn and en-
durance, today he is more effeminate than the
cigarette smoker.

There are so many women swimming the chan-
nel nowadays that some of the civic leaders of
Cape Griz Nez, France, are working on plans to
establish a floating swoman's club which will ac-
company the members on their afternoon swims
Hereafter, we won't speak
instead it'll

across the channel.
of the women’s “bridge tea gossip,”
be,“Channel Chatter.”

We understand that one young lady candidate
for public office in the east has abandoned her
political activities and gone in for channel swim-
“One must keep in style,” she told news-
papermen when asked why she dropped out of
the political race. e

Gertrude Ederle seems to be the new “first lady
of the land.”

and France are in danger of a big
quarrel as to which of the two nations shall ex-
ercise swimming rights over the channel. Both
nations desire to be allowed to sell tickets to the
swimmers, France declaring that this is the great
opportunity’ for her to raise funds with which to
pay her-war debts—and England contending that
she must have this concession in order to main-

England

tain her maritime prestige.

Prunella Pipp, daughter of Mr. and’ Mrs. Amos
Q. Pipp, has written a very interesting letter on
channel swimming, which H. J. Phillips, renowned
humorist has reprinted in a number of the lead-
ing newspapers of the land. Miss Pipp is a chan-
nel swimmer of some note, declares Mr. Phillips,
having inherited the vice from her mother, who,
though a strong woman in most respects, could
never resist a channel. Whenever Mrs. Pipp saw
a channel, she was’ as food as gone. She
forever running away from home to swim them,
and even today when Amos has her motoring,
and they are near the coast he has to chain her

was

to the car.

“T am over here waiting for a chance to swim
the channel,” writes Prunella Pipp from Cape
Griz-Nez, “but it is almost a hopeless task. The
Channel is so full of swimmers there is barely
room for one more, The congestion is frightful.”

“Both England and France have assigned chan-
nel to direct swimming traffic.’ Large-
footed policemen are better since their feet act
as rafts andenable them to remain afloat in the
turbulent waters’. They do the best they can but
the swimmers pay no attention to traffic signals.
A system of-red and green lights has been in-
stalled but even this has failed to keep traffic
regulated safely.

police

Just the other day I was swimming up the chan-
nel toward Norway and Sweden with twenty or
thirty of my girl friends and when we got to a
green light we went ahead-but were struck by
fourteen swimmers who swam across traffic Wwith-
out-paving-any-attention to-the-traffic-signals.”

On a 100-yard practice swim recently, Prunella
ran into Gertrude Ederle, Ishak Helmey, Mere-
des Gleitze, the London typist; Mme. Jane Lion,
of France; Omar Perrault, the Canadian* swim-
mer’; Olaf Farstad, the. Norwegian; and Lieut.-
Col. Bernard C. Freyberg, the Englishman. All
were badly bruised in the collision: Ishak Helmey
was the least injured, his escape being credited to
a novel of
which he has recently constructed.

set bumpers and shock absorbers

These bumpers are said to fit just around the
bathing trunks in such a way as to afford pro-
tection from swimmers coming from all directions.
A special lighting system which will enable the
swimmers to place small parking lights on each
ear while doing night swimming is said to -be in
the process of development, and will be a God-
send to thé thousands of swimmers who are un-
able to get off from their work for’a swim until
after dark.

The channel waters are said to be black with
swimmers and the English government is attempt-
ing to regulate the crowds by making the swim-

: ications» _a_swim_at least two
years in advance.
—W. H. B.
