ee THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 1, 1926
Sx P

REAL JUNIOR SPEAKING
TO BE HELD THURSDAY

Stewart, Branch, Davi Davis, McCutcheon
and Williams to Compete in Finals
of Annual Contest

The speaking part of Junior Speaking will
take place tonight in Shearer Hall at 8:00 ,
o'clock. Five members of the Junior class
will participate in the Junior oratorical con-
test, the winner to be awarded the coveted
Junior orator’s medal at commencement.

In the list of orators is seen a great array
of outstanding speakers. D. H. Stewatt has
chosen as his theme “The Crises of a Life-
time.” Stewart has distinguished ‘himself in
forensic lines during his three years at Da-
vidson. He was a member of the freshman
debating team which defeated Carolina fresh-
men in 1924, and is now
legiate team to debate Presbyterian College
next month. He is a member of Alpha Phi
Epsilon, forensic fraternity, and Omega Phi
Alpha, philosophy and psychology honorary
club.

Harllee Branch is the editor-elect of The
Davidsonian. He started his freshman year
in forensic work by being a member of the
Freshman intercollegiate team. In his sopho-
more year he was alternate in intercollegiate
debate and is now a member of the team to

. debate Sewanee on the Tennesseeans’ floor
on April 30th. He is an active member of
Alpha Phi Epsilon and Delta Pi Kappa fra-
ternities. His subject will be “A Newer
South.” ’

“Loyalty and World Peace”
to be used by C. G. Davis. Davis has been
an active literary society man since his en-
trance here in 1924, having won the Fresh-
Soph debater's medal last year and being
prominent in intersociety debates as well as
a member of the Forensic Council this year.
He was a recent initiate into Alpha Phi
Epsilon.

L. M. McCutcheon has represented his
literary society in several intersociety speak-
ing contests, helping to win medals for ‘his
society. He was alternate on the freshman
intercollegiate debate during the year 1923-24.
Beside his activities in speaking, McCutcheon
has won: fame on the tennis courts, being at
present captain of the Davidson racqueteers.
“The Menace of Society” will be the subject
of his oration.

CW. Williams has few equals for oratory
in the student body. He made the freshman
intercollegiate debate his first year here, last
year won a berth on the team that debated
Emory University and will take part in the
debate with V. P. I. to be held here on April
_-20th. He was recently chosen as business
manager of the Quips and Cranks for next
year. He is a member of Alpha Phi Epsilon.

All speakers have given. much time and

thought in preparation of their orations and |
is |

an interesting and instructive occasion
assured all who attend the contest.

JUNIOR WEEK

(Continued from page 1)
has been arranged by the officials of the

club, and tickets for the big concert are|

already on sale.

The various athletic contests, both in the
way of tennis exhibitions and varsity and
freshmean baseball games, will prove an in-
teresting and unique feature of the week.
Some sort of an athletic contest has been ar-
ranged for every day of the celebration.

Then comes the climax, a stupendous at-
traction at the gymnasium on
evening. The great wheel of fun will have
begun to whirl with impending momentum hy
this time, and the ‘entertainment in the gym

promises to be the most extraordinary event |

in recent years. The exact nature of the
Saturday evening program has heen vailed
with unusual secrecy by the members 3f the
Junior class, who hope to make the event
doubly thrilling by giving to it vhis tinge of
mystery.

It is at the entertainment of Saturday
evening that copies of “Sanity Rare,” ful!
of laughs and fun, will be distributed to the
students and visitors. The magazine will he
larger and better than ever before.

No mention of the program would he
complete without reference to the reception

in the form of an informal tea to be given!

for the boys aad their guests on Saturday
afternoon at the home of Dr. and Mrs. W. J.
Martin. This will be one of the most pleas-
urable events of the whole week, ané Mrs.

Martin extends a cordial invitation to all |

students to be her guests at that time.

Special religious features, in the way of

church services under the direction of a com-
mittee from the Junior class, and outdoor
vespers on the golf course, will add interest
to the events of the week.

on the intercol-.

is the theme

_ the battalion,

Saturday |

Military Unit Will Be
Reviewed After Easter

Final inspection for for Distinguished
, Rating to Come Middle of April

The student body at Davidson has become
keenly interested over the coming R. O. T. C.
-inspection, which takes place on April 14th.
This is the first time in the history of the in-
stitution that she has received this distine-
tion, and great credit is due to Captain
Weems, who is now P. M. S. & T.; for this
distinction. Captain Weems has worked
faithfully for the tei he has been here,
hoping that some day Ws dream would come
true, and that ‘the R. O. T. C. organization
here would receive proper recognition from
the government for the fine way in which he
has been conducting his department.

Official notice of the inspection was re-
ceived from the War Department earlier in
the spring, and President Martin has received
a letter, stating what will be required in this
inspection, The inspection is to determine
whether Davidson will be entitled to distin-
guished rating by the War Department. This
is a rating given to only a few of. the col-
leges performing most creditably in the R.
O. T. C., and in past years has been by such
colleges as The Citadel, Clemson,
Tech, and others of that type.

There will be a board of two officers to
inspect the battalion, and the inspection will
include the following: Examination in one
section of each class; review and parade, and
inspection of the entire R. O. T. C. unit,
examination to include inspection of clothing,
arms, cte., issued to the student; also ex-
amination on close order drill, extended order
drill, and machine gun drill; practical solu-
tion of small problems and minor tactics, field
engineering, etc. ; examination of all facilities
for practical and theoretical instruction, for
care of arms and equipment, etc.

The officers on duty here have worked un-
tiringly in preparation for this inspection.
Every man in the unit has been supplied with
brass buttons for his blouse without expense
to the school, the government, or the student.
This gives a uniform appearance throughout
as some of the blouses when
issued had brass buttons on them, while oth-
ers had the old dull bronze buttons. All
rifle belts have been cleaned, and the bayonet
scabbards, painted, and this also adds to the
appearance of the battalion. All rifles will
have been cleaned before the inspection, and
after April Ist each student will be held re-
sponsible for the appearance of his rifle.

The Students’ Pressing Shop, operated by
Coaches Tilson and Mattox, and the City
Dry Cleaners, of Mooresville, whose local

Georgia

| offered reduced rates to students. having any
‘article of their uniform cleaned or pressed.
Major Huie and the company commanders
will insist that every uniform in the batta-
lion be in first-class shape for the inspection,
and Captain Weems has issued orders that
any man having a piece of uniform that does
not fit him have it exchanged for a piece that
| fits him perfectly.

While the officers are on the Hill they will
be the guests of Captain Weems, and elab-
orate plans are being made for their enter-
-tainment while they are here. It is urged
that the proper military courtesy be shown
these men during their stay here, and all men
are urged to dig up their Basic Manuals, or
borrow one, and read the chapter on Military
Courtesy.
impression on the inspectors, and the men
conforming to this will only be showing the
respect of one military man for another.

SANITY RARE

(Continued from page 1)

copies may purchase them for a
sum. Approximately 800 copies
printed, so that there will be plenty.
The name Sanity Rare which was used by
the present senior class for their publication
last year, has been retained by the juniors

nominal
will he

representative is Mr. W. H. Bordeaux, have ©

This will make a very favorable |

in the hope that a premanent humorous maga- ,

zine may be started under that name.
matter has been discussed for several years,
and it is hoped that it soon will become a
reality. |

Those who have charge of Sanity Rare |
this year are: Editor-in-chief, Hlarllce
Branch; managing editor, Garnette \{c\iil-
lan; assistant managing editor, Kenneth
Bell; business manager, Clancy Williams. |

The, board of editors are: Buford Webb, |
J. H. Caligan, W. C. Ogden, L. D. har
ton, and Claude Allen. ;

Among the chief contributors are Bob Gr |
Mgton, H. L. Shelby, W. A. Alexander, C. F.
Smith, G. A. Frye, and R. A. Platt.

This |

TO THE CLASSES HAVING
REUNIONS

It is the custom of the College to invite
_ the classes who graduated in periods of
five years back to return for a reunion
each Com t. Com t
dates this year are May 30th through
June 2nd. Tuesday of Commencement
week is regarded as Alumni Day. All the
Alumni on the campus are invited as
guests of the College to a luncheon at
1:30.
eon is a meeting ofthe General Alumni
Association. This occasion is always one
of keenest pleasure.

little banquet can do so at the evening
meal on Tuesday: The undersigned Com-
mittee will be glad to arrange for a spe-
cial table at the Hotel or possibly a spe-
cial room at one of the boarding houses.

Immediately following this lunch-.

l the hotel, restaurants 3r boarding houses. | (Davidson). Time: 55 3-5 seconds.

; count
Classes desiring to get together for a:

The price per plate will be quite reason- |

able.

In this issue of the Davidsonian«you
will find a complete roster of the classes
supposed to have reunions. This has been
copied from the Alumni catalogue and it
has been thought best to list every man
who was enrolled with the class even
hough he may be deceased or his present
address unknown.

The senior Presidents of the class are
urged to communicate at once and ar-
range for a good representation.
man is asked to write those with whom
he was most closely associated in College,
working up a feeling that nothing short
of a broken leg will keep the fellows from

Every man who his ever been at Da-

vidson is regarded as an Alumnus and is! bury, Huntersville.
expected to take his place as a member in ing).

the class in all functions.
F. L. JACKSON,
J. W. MacCONNELL,
F. L. BLYTHE,

CHARLOTTE WINS

(Continued from page 1)
an intense interest in athletics ever since he
came to Davidson. —

Following the presentation of the cup, the
mile relay was run. This event did, not
in the .scoring. Charlotte walked
away with the race and was never pushed by
the other entries.

The teams were entertained by the
letic Association while at Davidson. Coach
Tex Tilson, representing this body, stated
that the meet’ had been a huge success and
that all of the teams had been invited to en-

Ath-

‘ter the event next year.

+

Summary :

100-yard dash—Ison (Charlotte) ; Crowell

(Concord) ; Floyd) (Salisbury); Leftwich
(Davidson). Time: 10 3-5 seconds.

Half mile run—Horney (Greensboro) ;
Phoenix (Greensboro); Carbine — (Char-
lotte) ; O'Neil (Charlotte). Time: 2 min-
;utes 9 2-5 seconds.

120-yard low hurdles—Milstead (Char-
lotte) ; Fort (Charlotte) ; Leftwich (David-
son); Blythe (Huntersville), Time: 15

Every |

returning. -Comfortable sleeping quarters |

will be provided in the dormitories, with-

out charge, to all who notify us in ad- | (Charlotte).

vance that they will be here. There will |

be plenty of places to get meals, either at; (Charlotte) ;

seconds.
220-yard dash—Kell (Davidson) ;
(Concord) ; Ison (Charlotte) ;

Crowell
Rowe (Da-

vidson). Time: 24 seconds.
Mile run—Horney (Greensboro); Ely
(Davidson) ; Williams (Davidson) ; Bass

Time: 5 minutes 7 2-5 seconds.
440-yard dash—Kell (Davidson) ; Houston

Farris (Charlotte); Creech

Mile relay—Charlotte, High Point, Salis-
(Did not count in scor-
Time: 3 minutes, 58 3-10 seconds.

Shot put—Leftwich (Davidson); Daniels

(High Point); Watkins (Davidson) ; Pick-
ard (Charlotte). Distance: 41 feet.
High jump—Smith (Davidson); Miller

and Houston, both of Charlotte,-tied for sec-
ond and third; Coats (Barium Springs),
Height: 5 feet 3 inches.
Discus—Brown (Greensboro) ;
(Davidson); Regen (Davidson) ;
(High Point). Distance: 104 feet 2
Pole vault—Neilman (Charlotte) ; Bailey
(Davidson); Fry (Davidson); Houston
(Charlotte), and Brock (Barium Springs)
tied for fourth. Height: 10 feet 2 inches.

Watkins
Ragan
inches.

Javelin — Brown (Greensboro); Cook
(Charlotte); Regen (Davidson); Coats
(Barium Springs). Distance: 142 feet 9
inches.

Broad) jump—Fort (Charlotte); Floyd
(Salisbury) ; Cooke (Charlotte) ; Glascock

(Greensboro), Distance: 20 feet 10 inches.

DR. D. M. ROBINSON

(Continued from page 1)

which were solid sulphurous falls and great
mountains of sulphur. Then he gave pic-
tures of the excavations of the ancient church
at Antioch, the city gate and the square of
Augustus... Among these were the first Latin
edict in Asia Minor which has ever been
found, four fountains, many columns of Latin
inscription giving the life and deeds of Au-
gustus, a statue of Victory, and a fine head
of Augustus.

Dr. Robinson also spoke to the Greek II
class on Saturday morning. He compliment-
ed the class on its rendition of Greek songs
and congratulated Davidson on having so
inany undergraduates studying Greek,

The Ox Woman

On an East Indian farm, where the crop is tea, a

The electric light, the elec-
tric iron, the vacuum cleaner
—the use of electricity on
the farm for pumping water,
for milking, and for the
cream separator—are help-
ing to make life happier.
General Electric research
and engineering have aided
in making these conveni-
ences possible.

A new series of G-E adver-
tisements showing what
electricity is doing in many
fields will be sent on request.
Ask for booklet GEK-18.

wooden plow turns up the rich black soil.

A

woman drives, another woman pulls—and a black

Ox pulls beside her.

Six hours under a tropical sun; a bowl of cold rice
—and six hours more. Then the woman goes to her
bed of rushes, and the beast to his mud stall.

Tomorrow will be the same.

The American home has many conveniences. But
many American women often work as hard as their
Oriental sisters. They toil at the washtub, they
carry water, they churn by hand—all tasks which
electricity can do for them at small cost, in half

the time.

The labor-saving possibilities of electricity are
constantly becoming more widely recognized. And
the social significance of the release of the American
woman from physical drudgery, through the increas-
ing use of electricity in and about the home, will
appeal instantly to every college man and woman.

7-18

GENERAL ELECT RIC

GENERAL

BNECTADY

YORE
