12

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 1, 1926

Famous Town-Wide
Stars Chosen for
World-Wide Team

The following town-wide famous foot-
ball stars wer eunanimously chosen to
the All-American team, after three
months heated discussion, by Coaches
Peel of Mt. Mourne Prep School, Coach
Ahab of Cornelius Fitting School and
Coach Sagumitum of Huntersville High.

Right End: Hugh Miller speedy and
flashy half-back of Frog-Level, S. C.
Only Miller's magnificent complexion
rated him over Yeargan, of Talladega,
Ala.

Right Tackle: Harry Peterson, of
Chattahoochee Village, after a mighty
struggle vanquished James E. Moore and
A. B. Claytor of Mooresville.

Right Guard: With the speedy but
dumb Menzies pushing him hard, Bor-
deaux finally clinched this position be-
cause of his quick and fertile brain.

Center: This important position was
closely contested between Wood Brown,
celebrated red-headed fire eater, of
Shuffeltown and the redoubtable John
Parks, of Atlanta.

Left Guard: W. C. Ogden, powerful cog
in the Hagcedville aggregation won over
his teammate, Kid Lyerly.

Left Tackle: Although closely pressed
by Fred Helm, Linton Lucius Deck, of
Mount Mourne finally won out.

Left End: Graham Shaw, Sumter’s
holy terror found his strongest compe-
tition in his brother the elusive Buck
Shaw.

Right half: Bill Grant clearly outclassed
all opponents for his place.

Left half: Jack Vaughan,
grad of Linking Spungs Filting School,
was only college freshman to place.
matchless tribute Henry Powell, a lo-
quacious but fiery Derita product ran
Vaughan a close race.

Quarter Back: After much argument

over this key position, D. O. Westbrook, |

chased by the fast D. G. Wilson, because

of his matchless form and charming per- |

sonality safely placed.
rated him captain.
Shearer Chapel Rostrum.

All three coaches

Full Back: Runt McLeod, speed king of |
Vass, by squelching Ernest Milton, rated |

this keystone position.

Manager:
ready access to the noted liniment van-
quished Hudson Leathers. Both these
showing lights were produced by our
own mill village both Black and White.

Cheer Leader: Billy Rice of the silvery
falsetto, placed over the deep-toned
basso—P, W. McCravey.

Both the Mount Mourne “Yearly Ef- |

fort” and the Greensboro “Daily Strain”
along with Charlotte “Preservus” and
Presbyterian Standard declare this stal-
Wart aggregation is without peer in the
annals of all history.

Right End—Hugh Miller.
Right Tackle—Peterson.
Righ Guard—Bordeaux.
Center—Wood Brown.

Left Guard—Ogden.

Left Tackle—Deck.

Left End—D., G. Shaw.
Right-Half—Bill Grant.

Left Half—Jack Vaughn.
Quarter—Westbrook.

Full Back—Runt McLeod.
Water Boy—P. P. Thrower.
Manager—Willie Sloan.
Cheer Leader—Billy Rice.
Fresh Manager—Rosy McMillan.
Subs—

John Parks for Wood Brown.

Buck Shaw for D. G. Shaw.

D. G. Wilson for Westbrook.

Powell for Jack Vaughn.

Claytor and Jim Moore for Peterson.
Milton for Runt McLeod.

, cat

, sium,
illustrious |

A}

Westbrook hails from |

Willie B. Sloan, because of |

REV. I. CONDER IS THE
OLDEST ALUMNUS

Rev. I. Conder, ex-1860, is now
living in McGaheysville, Va. Mr.
Conder was ordained as a minist
in the Lutheran Church in 1861, and
is now ninety-three years old. So
far as the records show he is the
oldest alumnus of the college.

A copy of a Book by Mr. Conder,
A PLEA FOR THE DECALOGUE
'§ IN OUR PUBLIC SCHOOLS, has
just been added to the, Alumni Col-
lection in the Library. \

'DAVIDSON STUDENTS KNOW THEM WELL

We have here three very familiar cam- !
The wildcat, better known
as Felix, and correctly know as Felicia,
holds the center of the stage. This is the
wildcat that the Davidson stu-
dents have had to uphold their spirit. |
The first feline made its decease almost
two years ago and his cage remained va-
cant for six months,

pus scenes,

second

The students felt that he should have a
successor, but no one could be found who!
made it his business to hunt such fero-
cious creatures. A brave castern-Caro-
lina man finally accomplished the feat
of bagging such an animal alive. The
student,body immediately purchased the
for twenty-five dollars. He was
brought to Davidson and installed in his
predecessor's cage. This proved to be
too small for his activities. Accordingly
Professor Carl Wachter gave a recital
under the auspices of the “D” Club and
raised the necessary funds for the con-
struction of a new home for the cat.
The lordly creature now occupies a pala-
tial cage just to the rear of the gymna-!

The scene on the right shows the wing
of the New Chambers building which was
completed this year. The columns of Old
' Chambers on the left of the building show
its relative position in former days. New
Chambers, when completed, will occupy
practically the same position as Old
Chambers did. The columns will be left
standing as a memorial of former days.

On'the left is a picture of Shearer Hall
and Elm Row. The former was con-
structed in 1903 and was a gift to the
college by Dr. Shearer, former president

of Davidson

This building is
It will probably

College.
still used as a chapel.

be vacated upon the completion of New |

Chambers which is to contain an ade-
quate assembly hall. The Shearer Chapel
is entirely too small for the use of the
present student body. Elm Row will be
torn down at an early date. This build-
ing, together with Oak Row once served
as a dormitory for the college, eight men
residing in each building. Since 1907,
both buildings have been used as meeting
halls for fraternities. The flagpole in the
center was donated to the college by the
class of 1918 as a parting gift. The
Charlotte Chamber of Commerce recently
presented the college with a beautiful
flag to be flown from the pole. 3

All of these pictures. are dear to the
hearts of Davidson and recall bygone
days to the alumni. Many of the latter
have probably never made the acquain-
tance of Felicia the wildcat. Up until a
few years ago the Davidson football team

was known as the electric machine and
such an apparatus could not fittingly be

A
Beautiful Scene
on the
Davidson Campus
That All
Old Grads

Love

Local Professor
Sick in Infirmary

On Tuesday the students in Dr. Noble’s
Psychology and Education classes were glad
to welcome him back to their midst after his
illness of a week.

Wednesday of last week Dr. Noble ex-
pressed the fact that he was not feeling up
to normal, which feeling was well founded
in that he shortly had to go to the college

used as a mascot. The students felt that| infirmary suffering with an attack of ‘Ger-
they needed something besides mechani-| man” measles. There he stayed until Tues-

cal means in inspire them to victory in|

athletic contests. The wildcat was the
culmination of this desire. He seems to
realize the importance of his position
and also that his ferocity excels that of
the usual run of mascots. The students
have accepted him in full’ faith, so that
“The Wildcat Spirit” is a household word
to every member of the student body.

“Late hours are not good for one.”
“But they sure are fine for two.”

LHE GOLE

The above is a picture ofthe golf club
jof 1908. The club at that time was in
its infancy and was poorly equipped as
the picture shows by the scarcity of golf
clubs. Since its inauguration the club
has developed from a small organization
to-a varsity team which holds matches
with other well-known teams.

The names of the members of the club
are J. F. Martin, Jr., John McSween, Jr.,
E. B. Fisher, J. O. Harris, T. W. Davies,

M. W. Butler, J. A. Crawford, James Al-
lan, Jr.. W. U. Guerrant, S. L. Miller, Jr.,
R. E. Denny, J F. Hughes, R. C. Wilson,
Jr., C. R. Wilcox, George Witson, E. G.
Mallard, J. A. Axford, and W. B. Taylor.

R. C. Wilson, Jr., the president of the

day morning of this week, but fortunately
not suffering with severe pain, the sickness
being of a mild form. After the first day or
two, the fever left him so that the remaining
time was spent in recuperating and in over-
coming the"ill effects of the sickness.

During his absence, his classes were ably
conducted by students taking his advanced
courses of education, giving them a foretaste
of teaching which will be helpful to them.
All are glad that he is once more able to take
up his duties.

TEAM IN ITS

club, is now pastor at McConnellsville,
S.C. E. B. Fisher, vice-president, is now
in the banking business at Morristown,
Tenn. R. E. Denny, secretary and treas-
urer of the club, is a lawyer at Greens-
boro, N. C. J. O. Harris, course profes-
sional, is in business at Atlanta, Ga.

Dr. H. B. Arbuckle helped to organize
the club and has done more than any
other facuity member in securing a golf
course for Davidson. During the first
year of the installation of golf at David-
son, two holes were constructed under his
supervision, The second year, three
more holes were added, making a grand
total of five. It was not until the third
year that with the help of almost half
the student body, the ground was plowed

INFANCY

up and a course of nine holes was com-
pleted.

The course at Davidson now is per-
haps the best college course in the state
and one of the best in the south. It now
contains a nine hole course and by play-
ing the two practice holes this can be ex-
tended to eleven. Plans are being con-
sidered for adding two more holes within
the next year or two. This brings the
total to twelve.

Golf has proved to be one of the most
popular sports at Davidson. More stu-
dents take part in it at one time or an-
other than any other. Two of the stu-
dents were recently defeated by only one
point in a match with a professional team

from Charlotte.

Davidson’s Beauty. 2
in Spring Season is
Shown 1 by Old Cut

Davidson has been known since its
birth for the chaste simplicity of its
scenery. The above scene emphasizes
the stately beauty of the ancient trees
that are so numerous on. the campus.
Many varieties of massive oaks and slen-
der and graceful elms rising from the
cool green sward make the Davidson
campus almost a garden. The over-
hanging boughs, heavy with the young
green leaves and the winding walks sur-
rounded by the even, carefully groomed
grass bring a thrill of joy to the heart of
all lovers of nature who know Davidson
in the freshness of spring.

Rising above such beautiful surround-
ings, the aged buildings with impressjve
magnificence contrast with the splendor
of those recently constructed. The old
English architecture typified in the new
Chambers building harmonizes with the
simplicity and sweetness of the landscape.
The old well, now rebuilt and following
the general type of archiitecture exempli-
fied in the Chambers building, offers a
shady nook for those who wish to be
refreshed with the clear sparkling waters
flowing from the smooth marble basin.

And when darkness settles gently, al-
most respectfully, over this scene, the
moon mounting majectically to its
throne, clothes the campus with its gentle
beams and creates new beauties in every
spot. The glints of moonlight sift slow-
ly through the leaves until even the
shadows seem subdued and restful as they
lay on the peaceful lawns.

At commencement, when the old grad
returns to rejuvenate andto recall mem-
ories of his college days, he is impressed
again by the beauty of his alma mater.
Beneath the historic umbrella _ tree
where plights were trothed he wanders
to think of the happy hours of his youth.

LEXINGTON HIGH SCHOOL
5 HONORS

(Continued from page 9)

of the freshmen, since he made frequent trips
here during the past fall during football
season. ‘“Popsy”’ was a member of the
varsity football team for three years while
he was here, playing in the backfield. He
starred in a number of games and was es-
pecially noted for his drop kicking. In the
P. C. game in 1923, Davidson won by 3-0,
the only scoring being the dropkick by Hunt
from the 35-yard line. During the 1924
season, “Popsy” starred notably in the Fur-
man and Clemson games. Besides his work
on the gridiron, he was popular with all of
the students and was a member of the local
chapter of the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity.

The death of “Popsy” occurred after a
sickness of only one week with double pneu-
monia, on Friday, January 22nd. He was
buried the following Sunday at his home in
Lexington. He was survived by his father
and mother, Mr. and Mrs. John C. Hunt, and
by one brother, Nat, who is at present a
senior at Lexington High School and was
captain of the Lexington football team dur-
ing the past season.

Porter — “You had bettah sho’ keep
your haid inside dat window.”

Nigger Passenger—‘Look heah, black-
er dan midnight; I don’t take ohders
frum no black man.”

Porter—“Well den, if you damages any
ob our railroad bridges you'll sho’ have
to pay fer ’em.”

