THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 7, 1926

Ronald Wilson—“Let’s play that new
church game.”

Hope To Be—“You'll have to teach it

to me.”

R. W.—"All right, now you be Chris-
tianity and I’ll be a heathen; we'll meet
in the moonlight and I'll embrace Chris-
tianity.”

(a

EAT AT THE

ASTORLUNCH

SERVICE

THE BEST OF COOK-
ING

Golf Prospects Appear
Much Better This Year

|

|
}

| New Men Show Up Well During
Early Rounds

The prospects for the golf team this year
are much brighter than. they were last year.
Work on the golf course is being carried
on rapidly and it is hoped that the course
will soon be in first-class shape.

Although only one man, McGill, from last
year’s team, is back, the first three men, at
| least, will be better than the first three men
of last year’s team. Wolfe, of the Freshman
class, is an exceptionally good player. These
two will fight it out for the first position on
the team. Martin, of the Junior class, will
in all probability be the third man, The
other three men will be chosen later in the
year.

The team is planning to get matches with
Concord, Salisbury, Gastonia, and probably
Charlotte. The first matches with these
| teams will be played away from Davidson,
but return matches will probably be gotten

“Y” Column

¢

On Sunday night at the vesper service the
“Y” will put on its student meeting of the
year. The student body as a whole is invited
and expected to take a part in this general
service of worship. Hymns of a particularly
vibrant theme will be chosen and the whole
service will center on the one word, “Wor-
ship.” The students will also have the pleas-
ure of hearing two men out of their own
midst, namely, Bill Covington and Ronald
Wilson. These men have been chosen be-
cause of their intimate knowledge of “Y”
service and worship in its many phases.
They will have a message for every man,
and they want to talk to you. Will you be
there?

Clancy Williams has taken charge of the
Department of Sunday Schools and will take
up his duties immediately.

Copies of one of the books mentioned last

later, which will be played on the local
Charlotte, N. C. ee dip bortits
’ CO se.
cm : J) Several Freshmen have been showing up
= 7 well during the past few weeks’ play. Some

ot them are Culthen Mills, Love, Clemmons
and Young. This is one sport in which the
Freshmen are eligible for the varsity team
_and it is quite probable that some of these
will be members.

PRESBYTERIAN COLLEG

(Contined from page 2)
}and then again fullback, were other P. C.
| tion, Kirven was the same terror of last
| year, but had more experienced men playing
| against him.

practically the whole way. Stamps opened a

was going to pass his team to victory. Da-
vidson made nine first downs during the
game, while Presbyterian negotiated the re-
quired distance four times and received two
on penalties.

PEPPERM
FLAVO

Used by
People of Refinement—

Because Wrigley’s, besides
being a delightful confection,

INT
R

| seven and was successful in five.
| The line-up and summary follow:

affords beneficial exercise to Presbyterian. Position.
the teeth and clears them of | ae non------- oh b--------- Bohannon
1 ti PU aah do Leper pesey ae ed Od Ree ree eee
fi P cles. Barnwell ~-------_- RGfSe cee McColgan
Also it aids digestion. G128 Kitvenvesesss22c4 Center_------ McConnell
i] . .
* Neighbors ...-...- Gees Mitchell
After Every Meal Witherspoon _.--.- JOY bpendpseeeige eae Lincoln

At Efird’s Now!

THOSE $40 BLUES -

Look around you. Nine times out of ten the best
dressed man on every corner, in any restaurant, in
your own office, is the man who’s wearing a blue

suit.

Hundreds of these smartly dressed men are wear-
ing our popular $40.00 Blues---by LeBow---one of
the finest all-around values we’ve ever been able to

offer.

'

Single and Dagublediveantedcamndear

a soft, glove-like worsted that tailors

' beautifully and wears like iron. $40.00.

MEN’S
SECTION

STREET
FLOOR

|

The second half of the contest was P. C.’s |

|
|
|

week have arrived and will be distributed
among the students. The title is ‘Men,
Women, and God.” Watch for a review of
it next week.

At the vesper service on Sunday, October
17, the “Y” will bring Edgar Wood as the
speaker, Rey. Mr. Wood is the pastor of |
the First Presbyterian Church of Salisbury |
‘and is a brother of Bill Wood, now on the |
campus. He himself is a Davidson alumnus,

ever made here, having been at the fore in |
many campus activities. He is a young man |

derful appeal he has for young men. Coup- |

is excelled by none. Be sure to hear this |
man of God. |

The “Y” Secretary -announces that the |

passing attack and at times it seemed that he | membership cards will be issued some time

this week. |

One of the most neglected fields of en- |
deavor is that in regard to the Church paper. |

‘Walter Camp Memorial
| Planned by Committee

Funds Sought for Memorial to
Father of American Football

New York City—With the reopening of
college class rooms throughout the country
| during this past week, and the familiar dull
'thud of shoeleather against pigskin heard on
|a thousand athletic fields, comes the ‘ an-
|nouncement from ‘the Walter Camp Me-
| morial Committee that “Walter Camp Day”
|is to be celebrated in every section of the
| country as a signal mark ‘of respect to the
| memory of the man who did so much to make
| football the pre-eminent American college
game. Out of deference to the wishes of
athletic councils in various sections no one
day has been set aside by the committee for
general observance, but each community has
been: allowed to designate its own date for
the memorial.

Ir: scores of college communities there are
|to be special Walter Camp Day games.
| Some of those already arranged are:

Oct. 16—New York University vs. Tulane.

Oct. 23—Harvard vs. Dartmouth.

Oct. 30—Columbia vs. Cornell.

Nov. 2—N. Y. City College vs. Manhattan
College.

Nov. 13—Syracuse vs. Colgate.

Nov. 20—Fordham vs. Georgetown.

Nov. 25—Pittsbirgh vs. Pent-State.

Nov. 25—Nebraska vs. Washington.

The observance of Walter Camp Day is

BOWS TO DAVIDSON and had one of the most brilliant records /a part of the plan whereby the colleges and

universities of the entire nation are unting
under the auspices of the National Collegiate

backfield, and Kirven, at times playing line | and that alone is a great factor in the won- | Athletic Association with the alumni of Yale

to raise a fund of $300,000 for the erection

| stars. Hogrete s returns of Grey's kicks | jing that with his well-founded thought and | Of a monumental Walter Camp Memorial
> : 2] $ ‘ g 2 ‘ 2 2 Bie ry 2 = 27 " To ,
often put his team in an advantageous POS!+/ excellent delivery, you have a message that | Gateway as an entrance to the Yale Bowl

and other athletic fields at New Haven. On
either side of the huge gateway will be great
bronze panels on which will be cut the names
of every college and university contributing
to the fund. The committee, headed by FE.
K. Hall, of Dartmouth, chairman of the
Football Rules Committee, is bending every
effort to have on these panels the name of
every college and university in America
where football is played today, in order that

| Do you ever take time to read your Church | this tribute to the memory of the “Father of

| Paper Week,” during which special effort |

The Blue Stockings attempted 18 passes | paper? The Christian Observer announces | American Football” may be truly a national
and completed only two; Davidson tried | that November 7-14 is to be held as “Church | memorial.

Since announcement of the Walter Camp

| will be made to place some type of Chris- | Memorial plans was made late last spring,

: lene . . .
Davidson. | tian publication in every home.

The “Y” room is always supplied with |

everyone will get the habit. Along with |
this added activity in this field, we might |
well observe the little note taken from a |
Church paper: j |

“Many a man whose life is now dark,
dreary, and burdensome, might, had he been
wiser and read such pages as supply and |

| foster noble ideals, have been able to say:

‘My mind to me a kingdom is
Such perfect joy therein I find.’ ”
Can we too say that?

StGVENS) vas ses ss epee ae
Stamps aco cocfeee QOBeei eee Wilson |
| Hogrefe --.---_-2- 152) a Rees Sees Leggette
| Owens Oe NUN, Sk oe ISEe se so sxe sae Grey, D.
IAWAISONi ce soot WBLS oS assess Black
| Score by periods:
| Presbyterian .--...--__-___ 0 0 0 00}
DAVICSONG ee oases Sarees 2 0 3 0 0-3)
Summary — Presbyterian substitutions :

Blake for Griffith, McKenzie for Barnwell,
Blalock for Timmons, Kolb {ot Neighbors,
| Moffatt for Owens, Barnwell for McKenzie,
| McKenzie for Kirven, Kirven for Wilson,
| Wilson for Moffatt, Robinson. for ‘Wither-
spoon, Witherspoon for Robinson, Griffith
for Witherspoon, Kirven for McKenzie,

Davidson substitutions: Kell for Black, Sap-
penfield for Wilson, J. Grey for McColgan,
Arrowood for Pinkney, McGeachy for Bo-
hannon, Mauldin for Ritchie, Nesbit for Leg-
gette, Laws for Mauldin, Bohannon for Mc-
Geachy, Wilson for Sappenfield, McColgan
for J. Grey, Leggette for Nesbit, Harrison
for Black, Pinckney for Arrowood, Mc-
Geachy for Bohannon, Sappenfield for Wil-
son, J. Grey for McColgan, Nesbitt for Leg-
gette, Mauldin for Lincoln, Kell for Nesbitt,
and Farrell for Kell. Scoring: Field goal,
Davidson (Grey).- Officials: Referee, Hart-
sell (N. C. State) ; umpire, Flowers (Geor-
gia Tech); headlinesman, Norman (Roan-
oke). Time, 15-minute quarters.

The Tsen-Tse-Kwan-Pao, o f f ic i-al
gazette of Pekin, is believed to be the old-
est newspaper in the world. It was

|
Pinkney |

Owens for Kirven, Timmons for Blalock, |
Dunlap for Owens, and Weldon for Stevens. |

it has been decided to allow the school boys
of the nation to join in the undertaking.

Ritchie | various Church papers and it is hoped that | As a result, thousands of public and privats

high schools are now busily engaged in rais-
ing a share of the memorial fund. Each

GET THESE IN NOW

All students who have not handed in
a schedule of their classes to the Quips
and Cranks should give the' same im-
mediately to Tyree Dillard, 407 Watts.

This will have to be done in order
to get an appointment arranged with
the White Studio photographer who is
in Davidson now.

Appointment cards for men who
have turned in their schedules will be
mailed 48 hours in advance. They will
facilitate the work by coming to the
annual office, on the first floor of Eu
Hall, at the specified time.

contributing school will receive a specially
engraved certificate of participation, and will
be given recognition by having the names —
of their respective state athletic associations
engraved on the panels flanking the memorial
gateway.

The United States paid two cents an
acre for Alaska.

Professional Notices

Phones: Office, 588---Residence, 65-3

DR. VANCE HASTY
DENTIST

Anderson Building, Court Street Entrance Com-
me cial National Bank Building

STATESVILLE, N. C.
Hours: Daily 8 to 5. Evenings 7 to 9. Sundays
12 tv 2

CHIROPRACTOR
‘DR. LEE E. KISER

STATESVILLE, N. C.
Phones 169 and 706

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN

DENTIST
811, $12, 313, 314 and 315 Professional Building

Charlotte, N. C.
Phones: Office 5050. Residence, 1937-J

DR. G. A. LAZENBY

DENTIST

Statesville, N. C. Phone 494

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

A complete line of Stationery, Toilet Articles
and Kodak Supplies

We are ready to serve you

|

Drugs, Cigarettes, Cigars
Dunhill & Kaywoodie Pipes

Drinks

In Statesville We Are Located
TO SERVE YOU

_ Candy |
Austin Candy Shop

Statesville, N. C.

Smokes

Can serve you.

|... This Hotel is Yours

to use for all FEEDS AND BANQUETS
no matter how large or how small, we

Regular board---reasonable---and the best —
your money can buy.

Music in the evenings.

MAXWELL-CHAMBERS HOTEL |

founded more than 1,000 years ago, and
many of its editors have been decapitated

1.1 because of statements they printed.

: ~~ DAVIDSON, N. C.

