* THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 4, 1926 S

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press

Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘1S
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Gabi Year

All Articles for ponteorian must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-

ceived from an an unknown source will not be published.
CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH sss c2ccc2ces8 Editor-in-Chief
HAROLD D. BUR Busi Manag
EDITORIAL STAFF
W. _H. BRANCH Managing Editor
L. D. WHARTON. Assistant M Editor
F, K. BELL-........-..-----.----Assistant Managing Editor
W. E. MILTON Athletic Editor
R. B, PARKER Editor
A. Y. BOWIE A H Editor
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH A i Editor
GARNETT McMILLAN........--.--------- Humorous Editor
J. B. WEB Alumni Editor
HiT SHEDE Ysroc arama eroaea ray Exchange Editor
Business Staff

H, B M

W. SUSE Business Manager
V. Assistant Business Manager
H. -Circulation Manager
E. upscription Manager

Service Department
Assistant

Reporters’ Club

G. M. EDDINGTON, Pres. _ T. T. PRONTS
V. S. BROYLES, V.-Pres. W. LINGLE
Cc. C, pA tee TOOsh Sec.-Treas. B. _ MARTIN
W. H. ALLISO R. H. McILWAINE
H. M AUSTIN. My P “McKNIGHT
C. L. RRAGAV A. M. SPARROW
D, M. CALHOUN i Cie, G. WHARTON
W. T, COVINGTON WILSON
Ns at DAVIS Cc. Ve AES

S. GORDON Ww. S. WOODS
JOHN GWIN J. F. HOLLINGSWORTH

EDITORIAL

What most people seem to save up for :
rainy day is a grouch.

iE] () See

A fellow who has just returned from
flivver trip to Florida reports that he had
rattling good time.

a
a

D
It’s casy to see how the Queens College
Players sclected the title “Mr. Bob” for the
name of their little comedy skit presented
here the other night. With so many bobbed
heads, possibly one or two bob-cats, and a
Vivacious little maid who kept bobbing onto
the stage, no other name could have been
more appropriate.
D
We wonder if Rupert Hughes will be
among the early contributors to the cam-
paign to raise funds for the support of a new
organization known as the Society for the
preservation of the Ancestral Heme of
George Washington.
D:

A broken rail resulted in a wreck on the
Jaybirdsville Railroad the other morning
above Huntersville, and yet they wonder
why safety-loving students stick to the
highways.

D.
Living within your allowance is a great
deal easier than living without it.

Clairvoyants tell us it is unlucky to marry
on Friday. Some husbands insist that it is
unlucky to marry any day.

Strange, but you seldom get tired watch-

ing the other fellow work.
D:

Vassar girls are not satisfied with their
freedom, A senior now takes space in the
press to lament the fact that the smoking
room provided for students by Vassar offi-
cials is “nothing more than a sty where the
puffers are herded together like pigs.”

D.

Davidson may not be a boom town but it
certainly is a “bum” town.

The substitute is never as good as the
original. Ask the man with a wooden leg

Men in Paradise, Nevada, outnumber the,

women residents ten-to-one. What is the
relation between the name of the city and
its population ?
D.
There’s a lot of good in the worst of us,
even if the Court of Control doesn’t seem to
apply this adage to the freshies.

Countess Cathcart e nothing but praise
for the immigration officials who attempted
to prevent her entrance into the United
States. If it hadn’t been for the delay she
probably never would have had her play
“Ashes” accepted by American producers.
Another case where she who hesitates is not
lost.

ALL HAIL THE SENIORS

Both students and faculty can well boast
of the scholastic record that Davidson sen-
iors made during the past semester. With
the inauguration of raised standards and a
more stringent system of grading at the be-
ginning of the fall term, it was felt that the
showing of the students would be materially
affected. There was no little bickering, and
it was felt by many students that the new
system would meet with little success.

When it was learned that a large number
of students Had been forced to withdraw
from college because of a failure to meet
the new requirements in scholarship, the
dissention was greatly amplified. It is not
for the Davidsonian to say whether or not
there objections were justified, but it is well
that we boast now of the record made by
our seniors under revised conditions.

A recent report from the office of the
Registrar states that fifty-four per cent of
the 95 members of the senior class made
over 90 per cent on their general average for
the first semester, the class average for the
entire 95 students being 90.52 per cent. Of
the 54 students averaging 90 per cent or
more, 15 of them made a percentage of 95
or higher, eight were above 97, and three
were above 98. This is an unprecedented
record for senior classes at Davidson, and
we doff our hats in honor to the seniors!

ELUSIVE SUCCESS

A certain amount of retrospection, medi-
tation and day- dreaming is quite necessary
in every man’s life, and especially in the life
of a student. We must. be able to picture
the things for which we are striving in our
minds before we can attain them and we
must be able to look over our past mistakes
and failures with a critical eye and be able
to pick out the flaws and mistakes in them.
Most of us in college set our aim and ideals
rather high, since in attending college we
usually have some definite purpose in life.
In our minds we picture the time when we
will occupy a prominent place in the prog-
ress of the world. But it must be remem-
bered that idle dreams and pictures will not
bring about this condition. Only good, hard
work combined with these profitable
thoughts can accomplish this.

There are no short cuts to success. No
doubt. we would like to drift lazily into the
varbor of success; but in drifting, direction
and a definite goal are very seldom ever
gained. The ship that has a competent cap-
tain and a sturdy motor and rudder is the
one that reaches the port rather than the
derelict.

Success is not reached by a single act. It
is a process of continual and constructive
growth; each day, should be filled with con-
scious effort. Only in continually striving
for an ideal and a goal can one attain the
thing for which he has been working. All
leaders and men who are prominent in all
phases of life have reached their position by
work and by work we do not mean spas-
modic efforts, but continual striving for
whatever one has raised to his own pinnacle
as the goal which he will seek.

One of the main troubles with students is
that they are distracted from their work by
relatively unimportant things. Time is
man’s most valuable tool in his seeking to
be something in the world, and yet it is the
thing that is most wasted. Franklin said,

“If you love life, then do not squander time ;

‘since that is what life is composed of.”

It is only by striving and working hard
that a man can ever hope to reach his goal.
And onerof the most important factors in
success is in the placing of one’s ambition
on the highest possible level. For although
he does not reach it, possibly, he will be
farther along his way to it, if he has really
worked than he would be if he had placed
his goal on a lower plane.

WHAT’S WRONG CHARLOTTE?

The old adage of the Biblical philosophers,
viz: “A prophet is not without honor save
in his own country,” seems very applicable
in a modernized way to the recent Glee Club
concert in Charlotte, at which exactiy
twenty Charlotte people, no more no less,
could be counted in the audience. Return-
ing from an extensive tour of the southeast,
and having played to large audiences in
cities as far distant from Davidson as three
hundred miles, the offfcials of the club felt
that the club would be greeted by a vast au-
dience on sits return to the “Queen City.”
The only thing vast about the audience was
the vast number of vacant seats.

We had ‘heard before that the people in
Charlotte seldom supported real musical
concerts, and it had even been rumored that
the people of the “Queen City” seldom turn-
ed out for any concert of a higher order than
a cheap musical comedy or a revue, in which
unclad limbs and cracked voices predomina-
ted. But, frankly, the officials of the David-
son College Glee Club had more confidence
in Charlotte and its people.

Perhaps there was truth to the rumor that

only a bare handful of music-tovers had at-
tended the concerts of renowned opera sing-
ers and artists, but with the Davidson Glee
Club it would be different.” Thus the club
officials reasoned. And it was different—
there wasn’t the usual handful!

And yet Charlotte boasts of Davidson Col-
lege, as if it were one of her own institu-
tions. In every booster edition of the Char-
lotte papers, Davidson College is given a
prominent place, not so much as an adver-
tisement to Davidson as to Charlotte. When
Davidson accomplishes the extraordinary,
Charlotte is the first to praise—the first to
boast. But, when Davidson needs the sup-
port of Charlotte, as it did in the Glee Club
concert the other evening, our fair-weather
friends are not to be found.

Davidson was not begging for charity at
the concert the other evening, she was only
asking that Charlotte people support them
as Charlotte people should. The Davidson
Glee Club has been hailed far and near as
one of the South’s finest glee clubs, and
Charlotte people were given an opportunity
to hear and see the club at a very nominal
cost. At eight o’clock the boys were ready
for the performance, but only two persons
were in the audience, at eighty-thirty there
were only twenty-two, and two of these
were admitted by “complimentary tickets.

Of course, the club gave a concert, it was
only ‘fair to those twenty-two loyal friends
who had come out alone to cheer the boys.
And it was a good concert!

The Sewanee Glee Club, the Harvard Glee
Club, the Cornell Glee Club, and many
others have been greeted with large au-
diences at the fair metropolis and “Queen
City.” And they come from schools so far
distant from Charlotte, that it would be ab-
surd to even contend that Charlotte receives
any benefit therefrom. Not so with David-
son. It is almost a part of Charlotte itself,
it helps in those things in which the people
of Charlotte are interested. Its band, its
glee club singers are always ready to help
in anything that the Charlotte people spon-
sor. But, on the night of their concert—the
last of an extensive tour through the South
—twenty Charlotte people are present to
applaud the efforts of the young musicians.

Again we repeat, but this time in a slight-
ly altered form, the old proverb, “A David-
son Glee Club is not Without support save in

its’ own country!”  What’s wrong, Char-
lottte ?
—W. H.B.
Open Forum
SAVE THE SOD
In the article which appeared in this column

last week there were quite a good many things
left unsaid that could have been said.

This time of the year is a very wet season and
the ground on the varsity field is comparatively
soft, naturally when fifty or a hundred men
walk over it the grass will be cut up and mashed
dows; and though this be only once or twice a
week it is rather detrimental to the new growth
of grass.

It is painfully evident that here and there on
the varsity football field small bare patches are
appearing. The field has been sown in grass
twice, ta no effect, and last spring by the aid of
the freshman class, under the supervision of the
coaches grass was dug up by hand, and planted
by hand. Last summer the grass had to be
watered during the dry spell in order to keep it
from dying out. The coaches have made every
possible effort to keep people from even walking
across it.

The field was the gift of a generous alumnus
who wished the college to have a playing field of
which this institution might well be proud. The
field was for the athletic department. The ath-
letic department since receiving this gift has done
all in its power to beautify and better the field.
Is this to become a useless expenditure.

The writer does not wish to cast reflection on
the R. O. T. C. Department. The college that re-
quires this in her curriculum should furnish a
suitable place where this drill could be carried on
without infringement or injury to any other. de-
partment of the school.

If the land adjacent to the freshman field could
be filled in it would make an ideal parade ground
for the Army department.

In the past when articles have appeared in this
column they have just been discussed and the
matter has then been dropped. It seems to the
writer, that the student body would take more
pride: in the appearance of the field which is seen
by so many and would do something about this.

R. H. McILWAINE.

Have you thought about that little job
for next summer? This does not apply to
any who might have sold Florida real estate
last summer, but to the ordinary, garden
variety of college boys, who, often during
the college year, wonder where their next

jack is coming from.

A SOPH SAYS

Though they affirm-a deadly germ
Lurks in the sweetest kiss,

|  Let’s hope the day is, far away

Of antiseptic bliss.

To sterilize a lady’s sighs

Would simply be outrageous.

I'd much prefer to humor her

And let her be contagious.

A prominent member of the senior class has
taken up the fresh-air fad. Rooms in Georgia
have only two windows and a man must breathe.
Sunday afternoon this person had his room
moved entirely out on the porch of Georgia; the
effect was quite artistic and original. Running
water and all modern conveniences. More than
| one student and visitor stopped to admire the

beautiful sleeping porch. The plan was perfect
except in one respect, there was no provision in
case of rain; and it was clouding up: So several
freshmen were detailed to move the furniture
hack to their original position.

She—"Darling, am I the first girl who ever
| asked you if she was the first girl you had ever
| kissed.”

He—"“Huh!”

station.
Operator: “Number, please?”
Yeargan: “Number, nothing, you'd better give
| me my chewing gum.”

| Yeargan had just deposited a nickle in the pay
j
|

Popular song-hit at a southern college: She
Wouldn't Kiss Me in the Canoe, so I Paddled Her
Back.”

Now wouldn’t this embarrass you? Davidson
student knew what the word blush meant but he
couldn't put it in words. So he ‘went to that
everlasting sourcec of information, Dr. West-
brook. “A blush,” said the learned man, “is a
temporary erythema and caorific effulgence of
the physiogonomy, actologized by the perceptive-
ness of the sensorium, in a predicament of in-
cguilibrity, for a cause of shame, anger, or other
cause, enentuating in a paresis of the vasomotor-
ial, muscular filaments of the facial divested of
the elasticity, they become intimidated preacor-
dia.”

One: “Why do you call your car Teddy?”

Two: “No doors; you just step in.”

Speaking of mixed up mathematics: down at
the laboratory they have some sort of a little
animal that multiplies by division.

Here’s something plain with fancy trimmings.
One ofthe rules for co-eds out at the University of
Missouri:

“Girls of the Freshman class shall wear their
stockings so that the articulation between the
femus and the tibia in which the partella shares
shall be protected from the vicissitudes of
weather and inconsistency of winds so that the
male students may keep their minds on their
lessons.”

Cats were not very plentiful for the play at
Shearer Hall last Monday night. But keep on
the lookout for them; because the University of
West Virginia is offering fifty cents apiece for
all that they can get. They say they are going to

| pickle them. Don’t buy any pickles from West
Virginia, boys!

THE GROCER BOY LOVES
The grocer loved a winsome maid,
As glowing as the day;
He thought she might not marry him ,
But said, “Let’SOAP she may.”
Unto her house she hied him forth,
Her charming face to see,
And cried with glee, “I know full well
That CHEESE the girl for me.”
| Now she was thoughtful and she said
| She was almighty glad
| To welcome him and then remarked
On what a COFFEE had.
And soon they grew right friendly like—
She let him kiss her brow,
But when she mentioned marriage, said,
“Oh, do not TEAS me now.”
—Exchange.

Davidson is getting recognized. The March
Smart Set carries a four line joke from the ak
vidsonian.

A wise lass

Is little Annie Gray.
She saves her silk hose
For a nice rainy day.
