THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 11, 1926

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Ciba Press
Association

thern Collegiat
Association

of S Press

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF on
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Entered at + the P Pai ‘Office a DAGIIBN | as , Mail Matter . ot
th Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION "RATES:
10 Cents per Copy: $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must is. in the banda. of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceive from an 1 unknown | source will not be dol ina

CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH Becenes peers E nite -in-Chief
HAROLD D. BUR KE-. B M

EDITORIAL STAFF
--.-.-Managing Editor
Assistant Managing Editor

W. _H. BRANCH.
L. D WHARTON.

F. K. BELL Assistant Managing Editor
W. E. MILTO -Athletic Editor
R. B. PARKER ‘Associate Editor
. Y. BOWL Associate Editor

. H. HOLLIN Associate Editor

GARNETT McMILLAN. Humorous Editor
J. B. EBB. . -Alumni Fditor
H. L. SHELB Exchange Editor
H. D. BURKE... -.--Business Manager
W. H. LYNCH ant Business Manager
ots}, y) stant Business Manager

EX .-Circulation Manager

Supscription Manager
.-----—-----Assistant
SKA Department
.-Assistant

“Gesepicent Club

G. Ne E eGR Pres. TT. T. JONES
V. BRO V.-Pres, W. LL. LINGLE
Cc é MURCHISON, Sec. Bene oat MARTIN
W. _H. ALTISON H. McILWAINE
tas au AUSTIN r P. McKNIGH
RRAGAW. A. ct SPARROW
B, Xt CALHOUN J. WHARTON
. T. COVINGTON R. Git SON
T. DAVIS C, WITHERS
W. S$. GORDON W. S. WOODS

JOHN GWIN J. F. HOLLINGSWORTH

EDITORIAL

AN OPEN MIND
Educational circles have been stirred con-
siderably here of late by the question of

what really constitutes an education, The
matter has been argued pro and con, Some

adhere to the old-fashioned theories. of edu-
cation and others hope that some day a new
era will come, bringing with it new ideas of
instilling into the plastic minds of the young
generation the foundation facets upon which
an edueation is built.

The English and American systems of in-
struction have been fought over, TEminent
college authorities in this country believe
that a reversal of some of our rigid methods
of teaching would offer more incentive for
clearer thinking and for original research.
We realize that many of our little methods
of educating young men and young women,
are absurd and foolish, as well as a waste of
time and money for both parties.

Casting aside all other assets of a person
who presents himself at a college for a four
vear course of education, if we find that he
has that rare asset, an open mind, then we
can be pretty sure that his education will
amount to something. Given a fair amount
of intelligence, a boy with an inquisitive and
cager mind, one that can discern and weigh
facts, can do more with the material laid
before him than many with higher grades
of intelligence but with visions that lie only
along a straight and narrow path that an-
other has trod.

There are three classes of students: those
who cram facts into their heads until the
latter are near the bursting point, and giving
this back to the professor on reviews and
examinations, sometime with interest and
sometime without. this student has a
well-polished memory he will probably be
near the top of his class.

The second type is he who idles along,
picking the path of least resistance and

casing through in the most accepted manner
‘that is offered for those who think that a
college degree is the Open Sesame to suc-
cess and riches. This type generally is far
below the remainder of his class.

The third class is the one who does not
stay in the well-worn rut with the rest. He
may be termed the radical or what-not. He
refuses to accept every statement as true
because a man of undoubted wisdom spoke
it. His thoughts decline to remain in the

paths of convention and ease. He some-
fives reads a book for parallel that the pro-
fessor never assigns. He sometimes asks
questions that starts the rest of the class in-
to gales of laughter. Many a time he is the
object of ill-concealed pity of scorn. He
doesn’t seem to fit in with the rest of the
flock. More than likely his grade is not as
high as the grind.

But who has derived the most benefit
from his college career? One of them is be-
ing taught to think but not as the others.
The others are taught to think, but in molds
that are fashioned for them lies their

| thoughts. They do not care to leave the

4, . eof}
way of convention and’ tradition and go |

chasing away just because they are merely
dissatisfied withthe explanation of a certain
question,

What a privilege for a man to face the
wide, beautiful world after graduation from
college with a mind that is unbiased and
open. How fortunate for one to be able to
weigh facts and persons in the same mind—
one that is untrammeled by fears or doubts
of failure; to judge a person by what he
really is rather than what others may think
of him.

Thus, if a college education is to mean
anything, it should be expressed in the form-
ing of the mind to receive impressions that
will last and prove a benefit. Most of the
things that we learn today will have passed
away within the course of a very few years.
If we learn only to memorize and to recite,
then there is something radically wrong
with our system of education. Tf we are
taught what to think but not how to think,
then it is high time that we should change
our manner of learning it.

THE NATIONAL FLAG

If there is one thing that should command
absolute respect on the Davidson campus, it
is the flag of our country, the Star-Spangled
Banner. To show disrespect to it and to
the national anthem is to exhibit lack of
patriotism and poor manners as well as to
show ignorance of one of the first duties of
a citizen.

Some students here do not have the right
attitude toward the colors, either through
ignorance or idleness. But in any case here-
after, when the colors are displayed, or the
national anthem is played, let’s show our
love of country and respect for this symbol
of democracy by standing at attention and
uncovering, And if in uniform, by standing
rigidly at salute.

AFTER SO LONG

The old Phi Gam hall, which has been re-
cently fitted into a handsome social room for
the benefit of all Davidson students, fills a
much needed place on the campus. For a
number of years, the need of such a center
has been apparent, but only the removal of
the fraternity to a house out in town, has
supplied the room,

The Y. M. C. A. has’ spent considerable
money in furnishing the rooms and the in-

terior has been made very attractive. Nu-
merous comfortable chairs are there: for

your convenience and a few selected periodi-
cals and newspapers are on hand. The
rooms are open at all hours and you are
welcome.

Especially during Junior Speaking will
this prove a blessing to those students who,
heretofore, have had no place in which they
might entertain girls who are visitors on
the hill. Certainly located as they are, these
rooms can be used as a common meeting
place during the holidays. Plans are on
foot to procure a new Victrola to liven up
things when conversation lags.

Mbert Hillhouse is to be commended for
his untiring work in conection with the
securing of this social room, Davidson stu-
dents will have occasion to thank him in the
future as the worth of this place becomes
apparent.

NEEDED ADDITIONS

A\ change that we should like to see in our
present curriculum is the addition of a
course in elementary Latin for those who
come to this college without any knowledge

of this important classical language. FEvi-
dently, the present curriculum dates from

the days when Latin was a part and parcel
of every high school education, as much so
as algebra or English. As it stands now, a
minimum three years of high school
Latin is necessary before matriculation as a
candidate for one of the courses leading to a
A. degree.

Kveryone knows that of late years, Latin
has been deposed as the main issue of high
schools, and in most of them, certainly, it
has been relegated to a back shelf. Lament-
able as it may be, very few of the high
school graduates are well prepared in Latin,
and a large number have never studied it.
Students entering Davidson, who wish a
3.A. degree must necessarily take the
course in Greek unless they have had three
or four years of Latin. And we strongly
suspect the Greek course here to be the
cause of so many changing from a B.A.
course toa course leading to the B.S. degree.

Elementary Greek, Spanish, German,
French and even English is taught here.
Why is not Latin, one ofthe great founda-
tion tongues of our Janguage given, so that
one might start at the very beginning and

ot

_engage upon a four year course. of it?

Nothing would please us more than to
see a one or two year course in Journalism
given here. It is true that Davidson can-
not offer all the varied course of a Univer-
sity, but such a course here would have an
enthusiastic following because there is a

}

{

» wield them.

College Comment

There’s a meter iambic;

There’s a meter trochaic;

There’s a ameter in laughter and song,

There's still.another meter

By no means prosaic—

To meet’er by: moonlight alone.
—Greenshoro H. S.

There are letters of love,

There are letters of scorn,

There are letters of sound and tone;
But the best kind of letters

Are not to be seen above—

Simply to meet’er and let’er alone.

Plans are being made at Columbia University to
hold this year’s commencement exercises out of
doors. This is done in order to accommodate the
crowd of friends and relatives of the seniors. The
gymnasium, where previous exercises have been
held will seat only 3,000, less than present num-
ber of candidates for degrees.

The co-eds at Millsap College, Jackson, Miss.,
had charge of the February edition of the “Pur-
ple and White.” They didn’t fail to use this op-
portunity to taunt, slander, tease, and as we
would say, horse the entire male sex. Probably
this outburst of sentiment was impelled by a long
period of suppressed thoughts and a desire to get
revenge for some of the non-complimentary things
previously showered upon members of their own
We wish to commend their edition of the
paper, but honestly believe it inadvisable—vea,
more than that—self-incriminating to permit such
freedom of speech more than once a year.

sex.

“*Music—melody—mirth”
on February

came to Agnes Scott
27th in the person of that renowned
corps of heart-breaking songsters—the Davidson
Glee Club. The gymnasium-auditorium was well
filled, and the entire audience was very apprecia-
tive. There was reason to be, for the Davidson
Glee Club lived up to its promises of furnishing
music, melody, and mirth; and in addition there
was a spectacle for the eyes in the way of manly
comeliness. Johnny Foster and the other three of
the quartet were their usual melodious selves; the
jazz orchestra made a tremendous hit. The whole
event success. May the Davidson Glee
Club come back soon and often !—Agonistic.

Was a

Which brings to our mind the question whether
P. C. baseball fans can rightfully be referred to
s “Blue Stocking Supporters.”

freshmen at Wake Forest recently at-
tempted to hold a class banquet, or smoker as it
was called, against the will of the upperclassmen.
Their banqueting place was by the
sophomores andtheir first supply of refreshments
was readily disposed with. Rather than be out-
done the freshmen changed the place of their
merriment to a prominent dining hall that was
protected from invasion by its owner, and brought
on a new supply of coca-colas and apples. They
were allowed to proceed with their merriment
without interruption, however, ‘fat the close of the
affair they found the building surrounded by
paddles and upper classmen-who were anxious to
According to all reports the fresh-
men soon forgot the temporal effects of their
social gathering and concerned themselves with
the more permanent effects of the paddles. A
regular class warfare ensued, the victors of which
will be announced later.

Minor Chords

THE WINTER WIND
The wind, it is a lonesome wight ;
Creeping o'er the earth:
Now its moaning in the night,
Moaning past my hearth,

The

discovered

T think it searches for a mate,

As ‘long the road it wanders :
Passing by bemoans its fate,

And through the forest blunders.

T know ‘tis angry, searching wide;
Milling through the clouds:

It roars and whistles, whips the tide,
Crying up the floods.

It whines and shrieks, and whistling flies
Across the gnashing waters:

And turns and cries, and tears the skies,
And screams along the meadows .

But now a lull, a blank respite,
Crashing through the sound.
The wind gives up with whining flight ;
Silence reigns profound.
Gordon McCutchen.

good per cent of the student body interested
in writing as a profession.
would be very instructive and practical in
every respect.

LATEST SONG HIT NO. 29368

The very latest is the Asthma Song, sung by
Trade and Mark Smith, the big cough-drop men
from Gumtown, The title is: “Yessir, ’Ath’s ma
Baby.

A misused car is often a Miss-used car.

THE IDEAL MAN PERSON
The girls down at Converse are having one
(censored) of a time finding the Ideal Man. This
mysterious personage, intangible than
radio waves or college spirit, has not been dis-
covered up till now except on paper and in the
innermost recesses of those prim, girlish hearts

no less

at Converse.
So far the
wavy hair goes,

number ten shoes and brown
Count Davis would fill the part to
a perfection. "Tis true he does not weigh 180
pounds, but he could carry three or four cakes
of lead around in his pocket. “Hot” Westbrooks
could fit the bill in other particulars too numerous
to mention. All in all, they ought not to have
any trouble in finding the mysterious Mr. X here.

as

Since the announcement has been made that
Davidson will have a new movie emporium, de-
mands have been pouring in to the management
for reservations for dark corners during night
and evening performance. Oh, yes. Junior
Speaking—of course.

DOWN IN JAW’JA

The Glee Club boys had quite a peart time while
in the little city of Gainesville. Between the
fashion parade on the sidewalks, the hypnotized
beauty in the show window and other attractions,
there was a great strain on the eyes.

Fresh Bradley noticed a monument erected by
the Gainesville Humane Society several years ago.
Upon inquiry, he found that some public-spirited
citizen had supplied the funds to be used for put-
ting blinders on the horses of the town, The
direct cause of it all was a windy March with the
Brenau girls down town, -

One of the lesser lights ofthe club was sup- _
porting the main building ofthe town watching the
parade ofthe wooden soldiers on the sidewalks.
A freshman standing nearby was smoking one of
those old-fashioned cubebs that beats
limberger cheese by a mile. Sniffing the smoking
fag, the afore-mentioned person remarked in a
tone of voice loud enough to be heard by several
of the girls passing by:

“Darned if I don’t smell punk!”

One of th® girls wheeled around and said in her
prettiest manner,

“Well, if you do, there’s a drug store on the
corner that sells both soap and perfume.”

insidious,

According to Don Marquis, College expects ev-
ery man to do his daddy.

COLLEGIATE

Two dagsling eyes with baby stare,

‘wo ruby lips and shingled hair.
Two dancing feet, a shoulder sway,
Al rippling laugh, a vamping way,
A crowd of boys, a social whirl,
Ind there you have

The College Girl.

The above is the N. C. State’s Technician con-
ception of that well-known menace to college
men’s habits of study, the college co-ed. Below is
the Keyhole’s conception of the typical collegiate:

Two sleepy exes with mannish stare,

1 moustached lips and larded hair.

Two Charlestoning dogs and a winning way,
A horsey laugh with bills to pay.

Strings of broken hearts but profound joy.
And there you have

The College Boy.

DID HE GET CHILE

Witie came home from her club at a late hour
in the night in time to see hubby well soused, sit-
ting on the front door step, playing with the door
knob as if he were getting paid for it.

“What in the world are you trying to do, Eg-
bert?” she said.

“Don’t—hic—make any noise,”
getting Pittsburgh.”

SO BIG

Those—big—seo—pound-Mississippi—River—catfish
that Shad Shaddock has been telling about must
have appeared to him in his dreams. That Mis-
sissippi swamp angel hair tonic that they drink

he gurgled. “I’m

Such a course | down his way will make one see elephants where

another sees only mice, they tell us.
