THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 7, 1926

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press rm

oon

Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

"Published W Weekly by ‘the Students of Davidson College
Entered ‘at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

" SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy: $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must “be in the nada of the
paatel sul? Editor hy-7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re
ceived from an unknown source will not be published

HARLLEE BRANGH eA) Rico sucdcbesctescause _Editor-in-Chief
VERNON S. BROYLES..--.-.-- Business Manager

..Managing Editor
tant Managing Editor
..----Athletic Editor
-Associate Editor
.-Alumni Editor
: a _-Exchange Editor

ae) OF é Guscuneenes-savabacsapeelLUMOLOUus AUItOr.
dD. M. CALHOU <p eer ec een gg een aa O77 / UE TY vy (ted OUR od g
W. Sh GORDON. ------.----~--.-..---Assignment Editor
ie VON Suscdaceckekona peasussecuadusecubentireabaitor
T. n JON S Aaa is keies ---- Inquiring _ Reporter

F. C. WITHERS...

BUSINESS STAFF
FE. L. DOUGLASS Assistant Rusiness Manager
M. P.C RAWFORD stant Business Manager

J Verkecibws sus s stant Business Manager
1. A. McALPINE.......-- -..--Subscription Manager
W. L. ALBRIGHT _.-.--.

i ne Circulation Manager
R. SOABDPRNE THY.o2ov ccccsccscacsctcostaetOetvice Mana er

_ Reporters Club

C. C, MURCHISON . R, LAKE

W. T. COVINGTON K R. KANE

W. T. DAVIS TON GWIN
JOHN MORIARTY T. 1 tS

A. N, PROEN R. WH. MeILWAINE
J. LE J. P. McKNIGHT

\. M. SPARROW,
B. WILSON
B. FP. McQUREN

EDITORIAL

After wondering thousands of years how

to fix their hair, women finally cut it off.
ea va _D- si

Give a rope to two men, and one will lead
the other. Queer, isn’t it?
fe pee

When a man wants to talk to a woman
without interruption, he says nice things to
her.

aes “1D) ete

Good sp. yortsmanship is more to be de-
sired than great victories. The- game last
Saturday was marred by a number of little
unpleasantness, the blame for which The
Davidsonian does not attempt to‘assign, Da-
vidson does not care either to win or lose at
the expense of poor sportsmanship, and the
lesson learned at the game Saturday should
serve as a reminder to our athletic commit-
tee when the time rolls around for making a
new schedule.

Cops unaw Rad |p pte aemeecan naan

Three games—three victories! A jam-up
record for the “Wildcats,” who, in ‘spite of
Jake Wade’s pessimistic prophecy, seem to
be playing about as good football as the
next one,

ats i] aac

“Woman in’ Automobile Runs Wild) in
Chéster,” is a headline appearing in a recent
issue of the Charlotte. Observer. — Nothing
very unusual about that !

WANING SUPERIORITY

The spectacular achievements of women
in every field of human endeavor, especially
in athletics, politics, education, exploration,
and.religion, have started man-tottering on
his self-created pedestal of would-be super-
iority. Woman is rightfully stepping into a
position of world leadership, and mankind,
suddenly awakening to the potentialities of
the opposite sex, is staggering in an effort
to maintain his waning prestige.

Since the time of the original apple
episode, the male has dwelt more or less
securely in-an unconscious state of feeling
himself superior to the female. The stone

Jee dil little to undermine the belief of man
“that he was really quite stronger mentally,
more powerful physically, and completely
the lord and master.

“So for hundreds of years man continued
to dwell in a state of ignorant bliss, while
woman patiently soothed, her lord’s vanity
and planned for the puncturing of his ever-
increasing egotism,” declares the St. Petersburg
Times.

Hardly. fifty years ago the female first
raised a voice of rebellion against things as
they were, and man, in his conceit, attempt-
ed by ridicule and indifference to drive her
into the background where she had been
too long. Energetic efforts were made to
keep- woman where -man-believed-she should
be, in mental slavery.

But woman persistently raised her voice
“and publicly denounced the intolerance of
her servitude and subordination. ~The
pioneer female was a martyr for the cause
of her freedom and likewise the target at

But, steadily the female plodded on, until |
one day not so long ago, the male awoke to |
find himself beaten at his own game, and to
discover that his superiority was without
any real foundation in fact, and that it had
i and endured mainly in his own
imagination.

The progress of the female continued, un-
til she had bested man at almost every turn.

governor and legislator. Women took the
lead in progressive education,
new discoveries in medicine, they proclaim- |
in religion and in science.
Their influence began to be felt throughout |
in the human activities |
that required physical prowess: and endur- |
ance, women’s superiority became eminent.
Man finds himself struggling to maintain
his equilibrium on a pedestal that is shaking
> attacks of woman, and is learning
day by day the wisdom of taking into con-
sideration his waning superiority.

7

| Who’s Who at Davidson

for the offices of

They made

LUCK
American collegians,
would do well to take a heart to the words of
President Calvin Coolidge in his recent in-
terview on the part played by luck in men’s
: President’s observation is
that luck isn’t a particularly important fac-
“The main thing,”
to také advantage of luck
when it comes along.’’s
The experience of our national executive
bears out these observation. “When Cool- now became a track star—and the weig
i member of the Massachu- ed his long-suit.
sett’s Legislature it Was not luck that sent field events also came in
him to the State Senate, then to its leader-
ship and finally to_the governorship of his
Kansas City Times. He

worked hard. He showed good judgment.

A large clement of luck is said to have en-
tered into his nomination for the vice-pres-
i 1 _ certainly luck would not have
hit his way if he hadn’t been prepared, if he
» made a name for himself as Gover- ferent both in ritual and

J. Ingalls wasn’t using statistics
wher he said‘in his. famous sonnet that op- |
once,” says the Chat-
commenting on the
President’s discourse, It knocks repeatedly,
and if it fails to appear a man can send out
a subpoena for it.”

Calvin Coolidge had a childhood ambition
to be a groceryman, and there are those per-
haps who will say that luck kept him from
behind a grocery counter and sat him in the
Coolidge, himself, may a Fre
be unable to Sane his-preaence in the | s74 College Mes:
rest assured that his
; _ his every word during his earlier
life had prepared him to take advantage of | (Tuae-—*The March of the
the luck element when it came. ]

President’s

AN INNOVATION

y.” as planned by the members of
the Delta Cirele of Omicron Delta Kappa,
and explained clsewhere in this issue, will
prove a welcome innovation onthe David-
son campus where something of the sort has
been needed td revive a lagging in-
terest in honorary fraternities, Antonmatioy
that is available for publication at this time
is, of necessity, a bit meagre, since the fra-
ternity is wisely veiling its plans with con-
siderable secrecy.

From what
that at last Davidson is to have a honorary
ceremony that will rival in local importance y)
those of the larger colleges and universities,
an honorary fraternity bid-day is al-
Ways 2 source of interest and anticipation.
Up until the present time the extending of
y the honorary fraternities has been
a spasmodic and uneventful affair, which has
interest beyond the two “Last year two University
parties most vitally interested in the pledg- I ;

is known,

. now Davidson is to have a “Tap Day”
that should’ eventually mean to our campus — known figures in American
of the Golden Fleece
means to the students at the University of
i what the bidding of the
Skull and Key Clubs mean on
the campus at Georgia Tech, and what the }
extending of honorary fraternity ‘bids at White, #its members made a special study of Edgar
other colleges has come to mean in the life
of the undergraduates.

what the “Tap Day”

and will consist in a
broadening of the scope and the prestige of
that particular organization; the other will —
accrue to the honory fraternities in general, | ;
1 revived interest on the part | pushing its way to a place of preeminence
of all the students of ‘the college. . among the honorary fraternities of the na-
It is fortunate that this innovation is to be | tion,.and on our campus is proving a leader
along with such other honorary organiza-
tion as Phi Beta Kappa

the fraternity

whoawvill enjoy <

Omicron Delta Kappa, in
whose inetabarslag } is included the outstand-

preparing for life,

says the President,
filled to perfection.

The cinder path proved the next object of his
ambition, No sooner wished,

candidate for honors in

turned to him = for

member of the Kappa
fraternity.

ERNEST F. BOHANNON, JR.
Davidson, N. C.
President of the Athletic

product of Davidson,
having
arm’s reach of the cam-
pus most of his brief but
eventful lifetime.
stepped from
door through the portals
of the college in the fall

within the bounds of the
canypus was the cause of
considerable
upperclassmen
had watched him perform-in the backfield of the
famous 1923 Davidson High School football team.

A place awaited him on the freshman football
team, and having nonchalently
iority over other candidates,
charge of the left flank on the “rat”
athletic prowess stood him

the

proved his: super-
he proceedéd to take

during his sophomore year, he won a-place on the
varsity squad, stepping into a vacancy
illustrious predecessor, whose

3road-jumping and ye Athen
consideration,
this youthful son of Davidson proved

Athletic prowess plus personality has won him
popularity among his fellow-students,
shown their respect by electing Bohannon, to the
student council, to the presidency of the <
association and other positions ,
versatile interests aré shown by his membership
in both the “D” Club and the International Rela-

tions Club, which are, to say » least, a bit dif-

LACY DONNELL WHARTON, JR.
Smithfield, N. C.
Editor-in-Chief of Quips and Cranks

“Don” is the embodi-
ment of versatility —as
his long list of honors
and achievements at Da-
vidson testify. No line
of college endeavor has
failed: to. feel’ his influ-
ence, and his work in the
various lines of campus
activity have «been
crowned with unusual
success. y é

Entering the college piph Diese
from Smithfield, N. C., he
immediately attracted attention by his spectacu-
lar work on the freshman football squad, then as
a writer, and finally as an orator of no mean
talents. His journalistic ability landed for him a
place on the staff of The Davidsonian during the
early part of his sophomore year, and as sporting
editor of the paper, he set a high mark at which
his successors have aimed. For three years his
work on«the school weekly was of outstanding
merit, and only the fact that he is editor of the
year book has prevented him from taking a lead-
ing port in the activities of The Dazvidsonian again
this year.

As a member of the freshman and varsity inter-
collegiate debating teams for three years, his
ability was unquestioned, (The presidency of the
forensic council and membership in the Alpha
Phi Epsilon national forensic fraternity are both
rewards for his meritorious work along oratori-
cal lines. Other honorary organizations which

have bestowed membership on “Don” include the _

Omicron Delta Kappa leadership fraternity, the

Delta Pi Kappa journalistic fraternity, and Sigma
Upsilon literary fraternity. He is also the rank-
ing member of the publications board, a member
of the magazine staff, and a retired member of the
Davidson Press Bureau, He is the historian of
his class, and a member of the Delta Theta Chi
social fraternity.

Minor Chords

Collegiate Chatter

however, it seems

Note: The following “Hymn to Davidson”
been submitted to The Davidsonian by James H.
Caligan, our own poet-laureate, and is believed to
possess merit sufficient to commend its adoption
asa college anthem, to supplement “O Davidson”

HYMN. TO. DAKIDSON
Men of Harlech’)

Unto thee, dear alina mater,

He would sing with truest ardor

Thy high praise and matchless honor,
Shining ever fair.

Chorus:
Heaven's’ peace attend thee!
55 God His favor lend thee!

To thy name a glorious fame,
And Truth her blessings send. thee.
Loyal oir devotion ever,

None our love to thee can sever:
Faithful sons and true forever,
Davidson, to thee

Sweet have been the vears together ;

May they still extend thee pleasure,

Flope and love that knows
Linger evermore,

Horatio Algier,”

figures on the campus.”

spiring and exclusive club.”

A Modern Renaissance

fired with the desire to uplift and purify /
literary ideals, conceived the famous Polly Ho Society,
so named by a ‘crafty combination of the two well-

deglares the Crimson-White,
the founders of the club soon had a following con-
sisting of the outstanding social, moral and intellectual
The progress of the club was
remarkable, and “in the spring,”

A. Guests’ life and works.”
organized this fall and applications for membership

Two benefits should result from such a | are numerous. It is branded as Alabama’s ‘
ceremony as is planed by the Omicron Del-
The first of these will accrue to

The club has been re-

The man who wakes up to find himself
famous hasn’t been entirely asleep.

The presitige of

MOO COW MOO

A number of students at the University of Ken-
tucky are “milking their way through college,” de-
clares a news item appearing in the Cento, of
Centre College. The skill they acquired back
home in the cow stable, with the battered bucket
and the three-legged~milking stool, is enabling
huiidreds of these energetic farm boys to pay all
or part of their expenses in the agricultural col-
leges of a number of southern states, according to
the survey on which the Cento article is based.

IN GOOD SHAPE

“Weslevan Girls in Good Physical Trim,” reads
a headline in The Watchtower, which comes to us
from Wesleyan College down in Georgia; and the
article which follows that declaration seems to
justify the statement. Physical examinations re-
veal the fact that very few of the Wesleyan girls
are suffering from physical defects of any nature,
and that the members of the senior class are al-
most ideal specimens of physical perfection. The
girls vary in weight from eighty-seven to one

-hundred and seventy-five pounds, according to

statistics, and in height they measure any where
from four feet and seven inches to five feet and
ten and one-half. Swimming is said to be largely
responsible for the ideal physical condition of the
Wesleyan students.

LITTLE DROPS OF WATER

Co-eds passing by Candler Hall (one of the
male dormitories at.the University of Georgia)
will be careful to wear “slickers”-and carry their
umbrellas .in the future, declares The Red and
Black, in an article describing the narrow: escape
of a group of co-eds last week. It seems that the
male students of the university object to the co-
eds passing beneath the windows of! their dormi-
tory, and last week when a crowd of the girl
students made a short-cut across the lawn in
front of the hall, four courageous fellows, armed
with overflowing water pails began a raid on the
trespassers, who made a hurried exit in time to
escape serious damage.

College professors are still insisting that
automobiles interfere with studies, but none
of the mseem to realize how much studies
interfere with automobiles.

Kings Mountain boasts of something new
to this jazz-mad world. It is a 30-piece or-
chestra, which advertises that it “positiv ely
will not play for dances.”

bi <hien line a
The-return—of football renmtitds—ts—that

Which the outraged male, in his hewilder-
ment and fear aimed his abuse.

Ing, leaders among students, alumni, and
This honorary group is rapidly

of the new, system,

a

Omicron Delta Kappa assures the success

those who failed to get hurt last season are

_ perhaps hoping to do better this year.
