THeDAVI

ix. O Je kos UE

Vol. XIII

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 14, 1926

ONIAN

No. 27

College Officials Set Aside This Week
To Observe Success of R. 0. T. C. Dept.

Remarkable Success of Unit to be
Observed

NEW INNOVATION
Special Events Planned for This
Week by Officials of Military
Department

April 12-17 has been designated as R. O.
T. C. Week by the authorities at Davidson
College to mark the climax of a year of
work and endeavor along military lines. This
is the first time that sueh-a-perioed has been
so designated by the Davidson officials.
main event of this week. and one of the rea-
sons why this period was called military week
is the inspection of the Davidson senior unit
of the Reserved Officers Training Corps.
This inspection will determine whether or
not the unit here will be given the Distin-
guished Rating, the highest honor that an
Rk. O. T. C. unit can attain, from the War
Department.

Much activity has been scheduled for this
week and the military atmosphere will per-
vade the campus throughout the entire period.
On Wednesday night a special picture will
be shown at the gymn, “The Great Divide,”
taken from William Von Moody's famous
Stage play. On Wednesday the high point
of the week will be reached when the in-
specting officers will attend classes, man-
euvers, and drills, to observe the unit and to
judge whether or not it is worthy of Dis-
tinguished Rating. There will be no classes
after 12:35, all the time of the students to
be devoted to the military department.

After the morning drills the inspection
officers and the army officers stationed at
Davidson will be entertained at the S. A. E.
house at a military dinner. The officers will
then go out to again observe other phases of
military life and tactics as presented by the
Davidson unit. The entertainment of the
officers while at Davidson will be in the
hands of the officers of the unit here. Cap-
tain Weems is in active charge of this, and
has planned a number of interesting things
for their entertainment.

After the afternoon drill, the unit will be

(Continued on page 11)

The,

Davidson Defeats
Gamecock Netmen

Davidson defeated the University of South
Carolina here last Saturday afternoon in the
first intercollegiate tennis match of the sea-
son, Winning four out of the six matches. In
gaining the victory, the Wildcats won three
out of the four singles matches and split with
the Gamecocks in the doubles matches, each
team winning one.

The matches were well played and hotly
contested throughout all the meet, and the
margin of victory was uhusually small. Sev-
eral sets went into extra games due to the
evenly matched The doubles
match between Carr and McCutcheon (Da-
vidson) and Wilson and Beattie (Carolina)
was the feature of the play of the afternoon,
the Wildcats winning in straight sets in a
very fast match. Some of the best tennis of
the afternoon was displayed in this match,
cach team playing its best in an effort to turn
the margin of victory to their favor.

opponentse

The single matches were also marked with
excellent tennis and fast playing. Both Brown
and McAlpine, of Davidson, came from be-
hind to win their respective matches, after

losing the first set to their opponents.

Brown's rally was the best exhibition of an:

uphill rally seen on the Davidson courts in
a long time. McCutcheon, captain of the
Wildcat team, also played a good game and
gave Wilson a hard fight before the sets were
over, Carr, of Davidson, played the best
tennis of the afternoon, while defeating his
man in straight sets in his single match and
while aiding McCutcheon to defeat the first
doubles team from Carolina.

The following
matches :

Singles: Wilson (Carolina) defeated Me-
Cutcheon (Davidson), 6-3, 3-6, 6-2. Carr
(Davidson) defeated Coleman (Carolina),
6-3, 7-5. Brown (Davidson) defeated Fair
(Carolina), 2-6, 6-4, 8-6. McAlpine (Da-

is a summary of the

vidson) defeated Beattie (Carolina), 5-7,
6-1, 8-6.
Doubles: McCutcheon and Carr (David?

(Continued on page 2)

Seniors Announce Complete Plans For
Interesting Commencement Program

Noted Orators of the South to Speak
Here During Commencement

The class of '26 is rapidly rounding its
commencement’ plans into completion. The
three speakers have been selected and have
consented to deliver the addresses. Hon. A.
M. Scales, of Greensboro, will give the an-
nual Literary Address. Mr. Scales is a loyal
supporter of Davidson and a remarkably suc-
cessful man. He is a leader in the political
circles of the state. Bishop Penick, of Char-
lotte, who has on several occasions spoken
before the Y. M. C. A. vesper services, is to
deliver the Baccalaureate Sermon to
Senior Class. Bishop Penick is head of the
diocese of the Episcopal Church in North
Carolina and is a forceful and attractive
speaker. The Y. M. C. A. has asked Prof.
K. J. Foreman, a member of the Davidson
faculty, to preach the annual sermon before
the .Y. M.G,.A. en the Sunday evening of
commencement. Professor Foreman has. at
all times been a very popular instructor in
the eyes of the students‘and among his traits

is the ability to see things from the student’s |

viewpoint and to present solutions to prob-
lems in a truly helpful. way.

The commencement invitations have been
ordered and should be ready for distribution
in a few days. As has been the custom for
several years each member of the student

(Continued on page 12)

the

McRae Is Elected |
Glee Club Leader

At a meeting of the Glee Club last Wed-

nesday night John S. McRae, of Maxton, N.
C., was elected president. John Foster and
E. L. Douglass were elected vice-presidents.
and W. O. Green was chosen as manager.
The advance manager for the club will be
chosen at a later date by the executive com-
mittee of the Glee Club.

The Glee Club recently completed its third
annual tour of the South under the directi6n
of its present officers. D. G. Wilson
president of the organization at present. Tom
Hamilton and John McRae are vice-presi-
dents, L. B. McClain, manager, and Harllee
Branch, Jr., advance manager.

1s

The club is bringing its activities to a close
after a very successful year. Besides the
Southern tour, concerts have been given in
Gharlotte, Gastonia, Concord and other near-
by towns. Much credit and appreciation is
due Mrs. Coral H. Baker, of Charlotte, for
her excellent direction of the club’s work.

Plans are being made for the entrance of

juation and remained there until America’s
| declaration of war.

CAPT. GEORGE H. WEEMS

Freshmen Select
Their Councilmen

In a recent meeting of the freshman class
to select the men to serve on the rising stu
dent council, Bob Covington, of Raeford, N.
C., and John T. Roddey, of Rock Hill, S.C.
were chosen from a field of 11 men. These
two men with Bob Kell, who> was cleeted
president of the class, will be the represen
for

tatives of

next year,

the rising sophomore class

Bob Covington was chosen by the class as
its first president in the fall of this year and
proved a good leader, handling the affairs of
the class in fine style, He is a member gt
the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity.

John T. Roddey is the leading tennis player
of the fresh class and will be the backbone of
Ile is seeretary and
treasurer of the fresh class this year. Rod
dey is a member of the Beta Theta Pi tra-
ternity.

the team this spring.

The men nominated by the student council
Davidson, N.
C.; Dick

were; Riggs MeConnell, of

C.; Bob Covington, of Raeford, N.

Atlanta, Ga.
Sh,
the floor, all being eliminated on the first
ballot except the tive mentioned above. On
the second ballot, Kane and MeConnell were
eliminated and Flinn was dropped on the final
ballot.

John T. Roddey, of Rock Hill,

Cyand six others were nominated from

The Freshmen this year have evidenced
a great deal of interest in their class and
in the welfare of the college as a, whole.
This clection, along with that of the
class officers, recently held, paves the
way for a year of activity during the

next school term,

Their interest in athletics and various

other college activities has not superceded
their interest in the affairs that pertain
the Management of
activities. They have realized that next
vear will prove a crucial time for all the
members of their class, and that a suc-
cessful year largely, depends upon their
own efforts.

Capt. George H. Weems
Completes Three Years
of Invaluable Service

Local Commandant Well-Kknown in

to successful class

Flinn, of Atlanta, Ga.; and Dick Kane, of ,

Two War Department Representatives
Here to Inspect Davidson Battalion

Local Unit Competes for Dis-
| tinguished Rating Today

INTEREST IS HIGH

Davidson Battalion is in Best Con-
dition in Many Years—

Discipline Good

Today at the afternoon drill period, the
final inspection for Distinguished Rating of
ithe Davidson R,O. TLC.
This will mark the climax of the two days’
inspection and also the height of the year’s
work for this honor, The result of this in-
spection will not be made known until the
first of June when the War Department will

unit will be made.

issue a bulletin to announce all the schools ot
Distinguished Rating in the country,

The officers making this inspection tor the
War Department are Maj. Edward A. Stock-
ton and Maj. Thomas J. Johnson. They will
inspect and be present at one section of each
class in the military department during the
morning chiss periods. At the morning drill
period they will observe the battalion while
performing the calisthenics and extended or-
der drill,

Their tinal decision will be influenced to a
large degree by the appearance of the entire
junit at the review Priday afternoon, The
entire battalion will be present and a regular
review will be held, After this, retreat and
the final ceremonies relative to. the lowering
of the flag will be held at the flag pole.

This inspection, was the result of a recom-
mendation by Col, F. W. Rowell, commander
of the Fourth Corps Area, who made a thor-
ough inspection of the unit earlier in the
spring. Colonel Rowell inspected all of the
schools in this area with R. O. T. C. units,
and Davidson was one of the few selected for
a more rigid inspection by the War Depart-
ment officials for distinguished rating.

The officers who will inspect the unit here
have just come from an inspection of col-
leges in South Carolina, who
recommended by Colonel Rowell for further
inspection for distinguished rating. Among
these are Citadel and Clemson.

have been

Army Circles
ENVIABLE RECORD

Has Had Marked Success in Military
Work at Davidson—Other
Activities

V. P. |. Will Debate
Davidson Tuesday

Capt. George H. Weems, Professor of
Military Science and Tactics, who came to
Davidson in the fall of 1923, from Fort Ben-
ning, where he had been stationed as an in-
structor in machine gun work, has been here
at Davidson since that time and will remain
here until the close of next year, when his
term exires.

12851

man debating team will appear here against

On next Tuesday night the V. two-
the Davidson team debating the query, “Re-
That the
United States be consolidated into a depart-

solved, the military forces of

Captain Weems attended school at South-
western Presbyterian, College, at Clarksville,
Tenn., where he was a leader in campus ac-
tivities and a member of the Alpha Tau
Omega Fraternity. Upon graduation there
he entered the United States Military Acad-
emy at West Point. Here he was one of the
outstanding men of his class, being light-
heavyweight wrestling champion, a linesman
on the football team and a cadet captain dur-
ing his senior year. He took an active in-
terest in the Y. M. C. A. from the start and
was president of that organization at West,
Point during his senior year. He graduated‘

in the class of 1916.
He entered active army service upon grad-

ment of national defense with sub-branches
or army, navy, and air forces.”

This is the first time in the history of the
present student. body that a team has met this
school on the platform. This will be the
second and last varsity debate on the hill
this year.

The men composing the team representing
Davidson are Yancie Bowie and C. W. Wil-
liams, with W. A. Christian as alternate.

One other team of Davidson will debate on
the same side of the question against Sewance
at Sewanee on April 30th. On this team are
Harllee Branch and Don Wharton, with J. C.
Barrington as alternate.

A dual freshman meet will be held with
the University of North Carolina, one team

He was one of the first
to be sent to France and was captain of the |

the Davidson Glee Club in the state contest | machine gun battalion of the Third Division.;to go to Carolina and the other to debate

which is to be held at Durham in the near |
future. -

At the close of the war he returned to} against their team on the Davidson platform.

Runners Break Three Davidson Records
As Wildcats Are Defeated by Carolina

Harry Goodykoontz. is Sensation of
Meet as He Leads Brilliant Field

Three Davidson College track records were
smashed here last Saturday afternoon when
the University of North Carolina track team
defeated the Wildeats in a dual track meet by
the score of 82 1-2 to 45 1-2.

Harry Goodykoontz was the sensation of
the meet, winning three first places, scoring
fa third of Davidson's points, and breaking
ltwo college records. By running the 100-
yard dash in 10 seconds flat and the 220-yard
|dash in 22 1-2 seconds he clipped a fifth of
la second off of, the former records in both
of these events.
| 440-yard dash, but his time was slowed up on
account of the fact that a dog ran across the
itrack in front of the runners on the first
curve. His time in this race was 52 2-5 sec-
onds, almost two seconds slower than the
college record in this event.

|

Clement Penn ran the two-mile race in 10
|minutes and 26 2-5 seconds, breaking the
college record in this race by 6 4-5 seconds.
| He had formerly run it in 10 minutes and 25
secqyids in practice, but this cannot be count-
| ed as official.

Carolina and Davidson divided first places
|in the running events, but the Tarheels were

Goodykoontz also won the

_ America and was sent to Camp Benning as| The program thisyear compgrises one of the | far superior in the field and weight contests,

Under the newly elected officers it is | an instructor in machine gun work, his spe- | largest forensic pregrams ever attempted at| taking five first places, and tying Davidson
(Continued on page 3) i

(Continued on page 10) ° | Davidson College. \

(Continued on page 3)
