HOME-COMING NUMBER

.

a —- —e - —--—

FORA BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XIV

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. i. C, MOM GNA 13, 1926

No. 9

CAROLINA GAME TO FEATURE ALUMNI HOME-COMING

Public Initiation of Phi
Beta Kappa Takes Place
on Night of December 3

Speaker Has Not Been Chosen
As Yet

EIGHT ALUMNI ACCEPT

Four Students Will Also Be Taken
—All Alumni Were Leading
Students in Past

The Gamma Chapter of North Carolina of
Phi Beta Kappa will hold its annual initia-
tion, secret and public, on the night of De-
cember-3, At this time 12 men will be initi-
ated, eight alumni and four students.

The eight alumni elected are outstanding
men in their various occupations and range
over a number of classes.

Dr. Thornton Whaling, Professor of The-
ology at Louisville Semintry, of the class of
1877, is the oldest alumnus to be honored at
this time. Dr. Whaling is one of the most
deep-thinking and scholarly men the
Southern Presbyterian Church.

Dr. W. E. Hill, 1900, pastor of the Secorid
Presbyterian Church in Richmond, Va., will

of

. oAt.the-peesent-thme Dr.

Hill has two sons in college, both members
of the Sophomore class.

Along the lines of medicine, two men have
been chosen. These are Dr. W. M. Dunn,
eminent surgeon of Atlanta, Ga., and Dr. W.
S. Rankin, of Charlotte. Dr. Rankin*was for
some time in charge of the State Department
of Health at Raleigh, but is now a trustee
of the Duke Endowment, with control of the
funds allotted to hospitals and orphanages.
He attended the Medical School here, taking
some scientific courses in the college proper.

The class of 1912 has three representatives
elected. They are A. W. White, of Char-
lotte, a lawyer, graduate of the Harvard
Law School; Dr. George Howard, of Salis-
bury, Superintendent of the County Schools,
Rowan County, N. C., and Lloyd H. Smith,
of Easley, S. C., banker and lawyer. Dr.
Howard received his degree from Columbia,
and Mr. Smith is a graduate of thé Law
School of the- University of South Carolina.

sConaied on page 5)

SixtysRoue Men Pledged

by Eleven Fraternities

Average Number of New Men
Pledged Ly ee a Chapters
r)

The eleven. fraternities on the “Hill” bid,
last Friday, a total of 64 Freshmen into their
ranks. The largest number pledged was by
the Pi Kappa fraternity, who received nine
new men. The average pledge of the 11
fraternities amounted to six men. The fol-
lowing is a list of the Freshmen pledged by
each fraternity.

Beta Theta Pi—Henry Simpson, Greenville,
S. C.; James Gavin, Mobile, Ala.; A. N.
Haverstadt, Atlanta, Ga.; Doc. Henderson,
Gastonia, N. C.; Alex Edelman, Goldsboro,
N. C.; Frontis Johnson, Greensboro, Ga.

Kappa Alpha—Robert Erckman, Hender-.

sonville, N. C.; Bill Wolfe, Louisville, Ky. ;
R. S. Reynolds, Jr., Louisville, Ky.; Her-
man King, Bristol, Tenn.; Albert Kelly,
Thomasville, Ga.; William McGavock,
Franklin, Tenn.
Kappa Sigma—B. Y. Wallace, Tifton, Ga.;
(Continued on page 6)

| LEADS ’CATS AGAINST TARHEELS

ett lence SINR ie teakig

Bi ee tl

Flashy Wildcat Half- Back Adds Giese
Chapter to Brilliant Football Getty

Stunt Night Final

Event of t of Program

On November 13, at a quarter past eight, |
in Shearer Hall, the Davidson College Glee |
Club will make their first appearance of the |
year. On this night, selected as Stunt Night, |
an interesting and varied program will be |
presented, consisting of numbers by the Glee

Club, Jazz Orchestra, Symphony Orchestra, |

Mandolin and Guitar Club, and Quartet, in

|
|

° |
addition to the various class stunts and a/|

one-act play by the Davidson College Dra-
matic Club.

The Symphony Orchestra, directed by John
McRea, president of the Glee Club, will ren-
der several selections from favorite operas.
The orchestra has secured several excellent
musicians from the incoming Freshman class
and is considered to be capable of satisfying
the most critical audience. The complete

Jazz Orchestra will furnish music of more |
modern tendency. They will play four or |

(Continued on page 8)

|

|

Wells Leads Team i in Last Home

Game Today
When the Wildcats line up against, the
| Tar Heels this afternoon, Lucien Wells,

their captain, will take his place for the last
| time on the home lot. The passing of this
player will mark the close of the most bril-
| liant yet consistent career of any Davidson
| player. in recent years.

During his four years of play on the Wild-
cat eleven Lucien has risen from the “lowly
All-Americans” to the captaincy of the team.
Those four years have seen him take part
in more than 30 contests and acquit himself
well in all.

Especially notable was his play in the Wake
Forest game last year when his sweeping end
Guns and vicious tackles were the chief con-
tributers to a 6-6 tie score. In recognition
of his superior play last year he was elected
captain of the present Wildcat team.

Lucien first came to Davidson back in

(Continued on page 3)

At times he has displayed a bril-
liancy rarely displayed by any football player. |

Program to Include Dedication of New

Stadium, R.0.T.C. Drill, and Stunt Night

Annual Event is Climax to Fall
Season

MANY ALUMNI RETURN

PROGRAM FOR DAY

10:45 A. M.—
Calesthenics and Dress Parade
by R. O. T. C. Battalion.
11:45 A. M.—
Public exercises at
Richardson Stadium.
1. Music by R. O. T. C.

Carolina Favored to Win Annual
Game by Virtue of Victory
Over V. M. I.

the new

2. Invocation Today is Home-Coming Day, the greatest
Rev. J. C. Rowan, D.D., Pres- event of the fall season at Davidson,
President of the Alumni As- Beginning with a demonstratiops-by the
sociation. Military Department of the collége in\ the

3. Introduction of Mr. J. Max morning, climaxing in the football game be-
Hendrix, Ex-'l4, of Greens- tween the Davidson Wildeats and the Uni-
boro, representing Messrs. H. versity of North Carolina, in the afternoon,
S. and L. Richardson, donors and capped off with a varied and lively pro-
of Field and Stadium. gram in Shearer-Hall touight, the day bids

4. Reading of Letter of Presen- fair to offer all that one could wish in the
tation from the Messrs. Rich- line of entertainment.
ardson, The R. O. T. C. Battalion presented an

5. Reception of Field and Sta- exhibition of calisthenics this morning, fol-
dium by the President of the | lowed by a dress parade. Rifles were stack-
College. ;ed on the field and the students took their

6. Prayer of Dedication | places together with alumni,, faculty mem-

7. Music. Sin ging of “O! | there witnessed the pré€sentation of the field
Davidson,” led by the Band. . || and stadium made possible through the gen-

8. Address by Rev. A. A. Mc- | erosity of H. S. and L. Richardson, brothers,
Geachy, D.D., '91. of Greensboro, and the acceptance by Presi-

9. Bened‘ction. } dent Martin.

Rev. J. C.
Alumni Asso-
C. Band,

a ~ + . 4 .
Following the invocation by
| Rowan, D.D.,
ciation,

1:00 P. M.—Lunch.
2:00 P. M.—Féotball Game, David-

son vs. University of North

president of the
and music by the R. O. T.

Carolina. presentation of field and stadium was made
8:15 P. M.—Stunt Night in Shear- by Mr. J. Max Hendrix, of Greensboro,
er Hall. | representing the Richardson brothers, and a
letter was read from the donors. Mr. Hen-

drix made a few personal remarks as their
j-representative and Dr. Martin officially re-
ceived these two additions to Davidson's plant

Tigers Smother Wildcat
Offensive and Take Fast
Game by Aerial Attack

Brilliant Hampden-Sidney Backs
Push Over Two Scores

and equipment.

Dr. C. M. Richards closed this phase of
the exercises with of
followed by the principal address of, the oe-
casion by Dr, A. A. McGeachy, class of 1891,
hat present pastor of the Second Presbyterian
| Church of Charlotte.

ADKINS RUNS WILD |

|

a prayer dedication,

(Continued on page 2)

iLife Work Meetings Are
Led by Noted Minister

Doctor Ben Lacy Speaks Twice
Daily During First Four Days
of Week

Grey Breaks Loose for 45-Yard Run |
But ’Cats Fail to Score

Suffering two consecutive defeats for the
first time in several years, the Davidson
Wildcats were clawed, trampled, and dragged
down to defeat by the Tigers of Hampden-
Sidney last Saturday to the tune of 12 to 0.
The Virginians came out of Death Valley
intent upon the purpose of defeating the North
Carolinians of the same faith, and after
four gruelling periods had passed away, had
accomplished their purpose.

Coach Charlie Bernier, former tutor of
both Davidson mentors, evidently had in-
structed his charges to put forth their best
efforts at the first of the game, for surely
they played Davidson off their feet from the
start. The Tigers’ first score came shortly
after the second quarter had opened. Hamp-
den-Sidney punted and the ball rolled down
the field, bounced against Dick Grey's leg
and was recovered by a Tiger deep into Da-
vidson territory.» A few line plays put the
oval across the coveted goal line, but the try
for point was missed.

Bringing memories of a ‘notable battle
staged a year ago on the same field between
the same teams, was the contest: of Saturday.
(Continued on page 8)

With an appeal that all Davidson men be
men of works rather than hearers only, Dr.
Ben Lacy, president of Union Seminary,
opened the Student Life-Work meetings last
Sunday night in Shearer Hall. Dr, Lacy oc-
cupied the pulpit of the village chutch in the
morning and held all of the chapel® exercises
in the church during the week. These serv-
ices are sponsored twice yearly by the Y. M.
GyA.

Taking as his text for the Sunday night
service, “Be ye doers of the Word, and not
hearers only, deceiving your own selves,” Dr,
Lacy spoke against snobbishness, yielding to
temptation, and evil speaking. He spoke, in
part, as follows:

“No Christian in working out his life has
room for snobbishness, and because of this
fact a great curse of the modern world
could be remedied. No man can say that he

| (CORSE on page 5)

FOR STATISTICS ON

TODAY’S GAME TURN TO > PAGES 12 AND 13
