6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 14, 1926

The following is Thomas Texas Jones’
All-American Football Team:

Name College Position
Point, of Penn Left End
Governor, of State Left Tackle
Hills, of Georgia Left Guard
Swamps, of Florida Center
Roads, of Mississippi Right Guard
Cactus, of Texas Right Tackle
Manners, of Boston Right End
Poly, of Tech Left Half
Dollar, of Iowa : Right Half
Beware, of South Carolina

Quarterback, and CAPTAIN
Marshes, of Glenn Fullback

Ponzi, of Wall Street, Manager and
Director of Finances.

Barrs, of Lavenworth, Trainer and Fac-
ulty Advisor.

Coaches: Essex, Mail, Packard, Pull-
man, and Day.

Line coaches: Cedar, of Lebanon, and
“Red” Wood, of. California.

“J. L, DORAN

Plumbing and heating. Hot water,

vapor, steam
ARCOLA SPECIALTY
Free estimates gladly given. Repair
work
“Service that serves”
Phone 29

DAVIDSON, N. C.

ART FLOWER SHOP

The home of Beautiful

Flowers

Flowers for the Home, Wed-

dings ard all Occasions
Expert Designing

Prompt Delivery

ART FLOWER SHOP —

DAVIS ROBINSON, Prop.
336 N. Tryon Street
Phone 6728 Charlotte, N. C.
Night Phone--County 3321-3260

THE MASS GAME

An Interesting Discussion of Sports By Popular Officer Now Coaching Boxing
at Davidson

BY CAPT. JOHN ELKINS

and the spectators as Davidson threatened
timé after time to go ahead. In Gresham and
Captain Dickens, Coach Tebelle has the two
best forwards seen on the Davidson court
this season, while Spence when shifted to

| center played good ball.

Tom Anderson and Hewlette, both playing

Athletic contests have become as much a[nent will not be afraid to try mental con-| guard, did most of the Davidson scoring,
part of the leading educational institutions | clusions with a competitor when the occasion | with six and eight points each. Hewlette’s

of today as the curriculum. Colleges and
universities have their football, basketball,
baseball, track, boxing and wrestling, lacrosse
and other teams.

The various sports supported by the col-
legiate athletic associations tend to promote
college spirit and are a splendid publicity
medium, the latter being seemingly necessary
at the present time when, even though a col-
lege may turn away prospective students each
year, endowments and gifts are largely in-
fluenced by the visible results being obtained
by the college through its-athletic teams.

Unfortunately the American tendency is to
develop to the highest degree the athletic
qualifications of the men who have shown
beyond average skill in certain sports and to
neglect, from the standpoint of athletic train-
ing, the vast majority who occupy the grand-
stands and bleachers when games are in
progress. This is especially true at our col-
leges and universities.

At the football game, for example, 11 men

forts of their 11 opponents to put the ball
behind their goal line. Along the side lines
there will be from 25 to 50 other men, sub-

stitutes, who may or may not get into the |

game, In the grandstands and bleachers will
be from a few hundred to several thousand
students who are thoroughly enjoying the
situation but who, other than some lung de-
velopment, are deriving no physical benefit
therefrom. The largest majority of those
who are watching the game probably take no
form of exercise.

It is from this latter group of men that
players must be gotten for future football
teams and it is this group of men that should
reccive the advantage of preparatory athletic
training which will later lead to their de-
velopment into either the finished athlete or
better physical specimens. Incidentally, the
survey of the physical condition of the young
men of this:country during the World War
indicated a very low physical standard.
Municipalities, through the medium of the
public recreation center, and colleges, through
a supervised system of athletic training, are
doing much to raise the physical standards of
the nation,

A remedy for the tendency on the part of
the average college student to take but little
exercise is found in the mass game. In these
games the college man who has never been
given a standardized system of exercise and
who has never come in physical contact with
other boys or men learns self-control, de-
velops initiative, and gains confidence in him-
self. Lack of the latter element will con-
tribute toward his failure in his chosen pro-
fession or business after leaving college.
Parenthetically, the man who is not afraid
to pit his physical strength against an oppo-

WE CARRY A COMPLETE LINE

of the very latest electrical fixtures.
get your Fraternity and Club fixtures

STEVENS ELECTRIC CO.

MOORESVILLE, N. C.

See us and

WILDCATS!

You'll find a complete line of college
men’s supplies here, including mem-
ory books, pennants, candies, cigar-

} ettes, etc., etc.

EE clo home) Sea aS |

The Student Store

_ “Tt's Yours---Why Not Patronize It?”

arises. |

In enumerating the mass games suitable |
| for college use the ones capable of accom- |
| modating the greatest number of men will be)
| taken up first and the others mentioned in
| their importance relative to the numbers pos-
sible of participation therein.

First we have push ball, in which it is pos-
sible to have from 100 to 1,000 men playing. |
The game may be played in any area that is
large enough and has a comparatively level
j surface, The ball is a pneumatic ball about
| six fect in diameter. The object of the game
|is for one team to push the ball across the
opposing team’s goal line. The rules are
simple, being largely based on sportsmanlike
jindividual conduct. No kicking, tripping, hit-
|ting, or other unfair tactics as regards any |
|opponent are permitted. The ball becomes

|“dead” only when pushed across the end lines

| or when it goes over the side lines. The

|game may be for a certain period of play
agreed upon by the opposing teams or it may

; ; ' | ivided i s eriods with intervals
will be engaged earnestly disputing the et. | PS divided into short periods with an
lof rest in between.

| periods are more desirable.

Ordinarily the short
| Another interesting mass game in which
there is a great deal of continuous action is
speed ball. This is a combination of foot-|
ball, basketball, and soccer. It is played
with a soccer ball. From 50, to 500 players
may participate in a game. The ball may be
passed, kicked; dribbed, hit, or carried. A
player may be tackled if running with the
ball but otherwise the rules common to indi-
vidual conduct in basketball obtain. A field |
100 yards long and 50 yards wide is desir-4
able. The goal posts must be placed an in- |
creased distance apart as the number of play- |
ers on each team increase. |

A third mass game that has proven popular |
is cage ball. From 50 to 250 players may |
participate in this game. The game consists |
of one team trying to put an inflated, 36 inch |
ball, in their opponent’s cage at the end of |
the field. The cage is a box-shaped, net af- |
fair about 12 feet long, three feet wide, and |
three fect deep. The ball may be hit or car- |
ried. Lacking the net cages, two uprights |
with a cross bar may be used, the require- |
ment for scoring being that the ball go over |
the cross bar.

Another game, known as servus ball, is
played very much like volley ball. An 18
inch ball is used and the court is wider, From
50 to 200 men may play the game, which con-
sists of knocking the ball across the net from
one side of the court to the other until one
team fails to return or knocks out of bounds.
Only the serving team may win a point, fail-
ure to make a point by the server causing the |
serve to go over to the opponents.

A mass game that has become very popu- |
lar, especially at schools which have a soccer
team, is mass soccer. This game is played
with a soccer ball and there may be as many
as 100 players on each side. The rules are
the same as soccer. This is an open game
presenting considerable opportunity for the
C6-ordination of eye and muscle and demand-
ing extended exertion of the players.

The attractive feature of the foregoing |
game is that the players require no special |
athletic equipment. Tennis shoes and some |
distinguishing mark to tell the difference be- |
tween “friend and foe” are the only special
equipment necessary. |

Because. of the spirit of friendly rivalry |
created by mass games many athletic direc-
tors favor them as a substitute for gym-
nasium work in connection with all-around
athletic training. Naturally, the specialists

‘|require special equipment and instruction. It

is in the mass game, however, that the am-|

bition to become a finished athlete is formed
in the mind of the man who who has never |
participated in sports and the mass game will
do much toward creating promising material |
for the teams that represent the school or

|
. . . |
college in intercollegiate contests. |

North Carolina State brought a inal
quint to Davidson Monday night to defeat
the Wildcats 33-24 in a game that was play-
ed before the largest crowd on the local
floor in years. Led by the flashy Gresham,
and the accurate shooting of Captain Dick-
ens, the State team showed a fast attack that
piled up an eight point lead before the Wild-
cats could get together. Davidson gradually
cut this down till the Techmen led by only a
field goal, finishing the first half five points
behind State at 21-26. Captain Laird led off
the second period with a quick shot from the
field. Neither team was able to score as in
the first period, the Wildcats holding State
to 12 points in this half. eh al

Although ever leading the Wildcats, the

game was highly exciting to both Techmen

playing varied, at times being of high order,
while Anderson and Captain Laird’s floor
work was best for Davidson.

Line-up and summary:

Davidson (24) Position. N. C. State (33)
Ietigel (@)) (CD) cee Dickens (c) (14)

RF

Hie: (5) Sceescsue tess oes Spence (6)
LF

Wilson: (l); ssccecs eee cees cee 6 Brown
Cc

Anderson (6) .22.<----2--.. Watkins (2)
RG

PEARSON cou scccot tee McDowall (2)
LG

Substitutions: For Davidson—Hewlette
(8) for Harrison; Simpson for Huie; Huie

|for Simpson; Harrison for Hewlette; Hew-

lette for Huie; Simpson for Harrison: For
N. C, State—Gresham for Brown; Williams
for Gresham (9); Brown for Spence;
Gresham for Dickens; Williams for Dick-
ens; Dickens for Brown.
Davidson 6 out of 14; State, 5 out of 9;
field goals for Davidson, 9; State, 14.
Referee, Rawson (University of Georgia).

ra

With nearly 40 members present, the Phi

| Literary Society held the first meeting of the

new year.
The devotional exercises were conducted
by Frank Hall. After the reading of the

‘minutes, the main debate took place, the sub-

ject being, Resolved, That a Federal Co-
operative Marketing Board be Established.

The affirmative was upheld by J. C. Frye
and R. A, Glenn. They were opposed by
B. H. Thomas and Frank Jarmen. A com-
mittee composed of C. H. Mauzey, J. P.
McBride, and F. A. Ratchford rendered a de-
cision in favor of the negative.

Much hilarity ensued when L. C. Wads-
worth and H. W. Tucker debated on the
merits of Florida and Tennessee, Wadsworth
winning for Florida,

The business meeting was cut short so that
the members could attend the concert in
Shearer Hall.

Scoring: Fouls, |

“Thad a hot argument yes-
terday.’’

“Our hat buyer wanted to
use this space to advertise
some new collegiate hats.’’
“The shoe buyer insisted on
it to mention a new $7 ox-
ford he has.’’

““The furnishings buyer sug-
gested ties, wool sox, muf-
flers, gloves and a dozen or
so other things. ”’

“So I asked the clothing
buyer to settle the argument,
and his instant reply was,

‘Suits and Overcoats’ !”’

**So there you are!’’

“T can’t advertise everything
in one little space, so I'll just
say that we have evervthing
that young men wear.”’

---The ad man for---

MELLON’S

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

STUDENTS

We are located in the town of Davidson for

your benefit and invite you to look over our

stock of goods.

You will find a complete lire of the things

that a young man likes, and you will find

them of the best quality and the lowest

prices.

THE GLOBE CLOTHING Co.

“EVERYTHING MUSICAL”

PIANOS, PLAYER-PIANOS
VICTROLAS

RECORDS AND ROLLS

Band instruments of all kinds, stringed instruments
SHEET MUSIC

OLDEST IN THE STATE ”*

ANDREW

MUSIC
STORE N. Tryon St.

2138

