6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 29, 1926

“COLLEGE JOURNALISTS

(Continued from page 1)
cers elected last year at Davidson are as
follows: E. G. Moore, N. C. State, pres-
ident; Miss Eleanor Vanneman, N. C.
C. W., second vice-president; Miss Ruth
Efird, Salem, secretary; and Miss Dixie
Hines, G. C. W., treasurer.

Mrs. E. F. Reid and Mrs. Gwyn, of Le-
noir, spent several days last week as the
guests of Mrs. T. W. Lingle.

MAYHEW

Perfect Service. Suits

Cleaned, Pressed

“JOBS WELL DONE”
Mayhew Dry Cleaning Co.

Davidson, N. C. Mooresville,N C.

RRRRRRRRRMMMRMNRNN
PRINTING
When in need of first-class job
printing of any description, see

FRED SMITH
3 South Barracks
QUICK, SERVICE
BEST PRICES

Agent for

Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.

Charlotte, N. C.

RAAAAARARARRAARARRARAAKKKKAKA

1 | Ga.

Town News

The As You Like It Club was entertained
by Mrs. W. N. Graham on last Friday even-
ing. Special music was had, and next year’s
program discussed.

Mrs. E. J. Erwin entertained the Thelamite
Club on Friday afternoon. Miss Ellen Wood
and Mrs. Wood had charge of the program,

Friday afternoon was the scene of a very
interesting meeting of the Young Matrons
Club at the home of Mrs. L. B. Crayton.
The home was beautifully decorated with
dogwood and peach blossoms. Mrs. Hugh
Grey, a charter member, was a visitor. Mrs.
Dusenberry read a paper on Queen Victoria,
and Mrs. Mebane presented one on Hamid.

Miss Martha Hamilton was the charming
hostess of a party, given last Saturday ait-
ernoon, complimenting Misses Lucielle Ag-
new and Jo Edwards, of Gastonia, her house-
guests, at her home on Concord Avenue.

Mrs, John If, Reid, of New York City,
spent several days last week as the guest of
Mrs. C. M. Richards.

Dr. Howard Arbuckle is now in Athens,

He is visiting Mr. Charles Rowland.

Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Grey, of Bristol,
Tenn.-Va., have been visiting Mrs. W. R.
Grey.

Mrs. John Elkins has as her guest her
brother, Mr. McSweeny, of Lynchburg, N. C.

WILDCATS

Have those old shoes rebuilt. Serv-

ice is our watchword

E. A. FRYE SHOE SHOP

Representatives

STEVE WALL and J. A. LAW

office.
from THE OBSERVER office

CHARLOTTE OBSERVER.

any other—The reason

tion is second to none
the South.

South. You don’t have to pay
trial subscription.

Che Charlotte Observer

“Carolina’s Foremost Newspaper’

THE CHARLOTTE OBSERVER’S news is the latest, hav-
ing four leased wires coming direct into THE OBSERVER
The news of the ASSOCIATED PRESS is relayed

other newspapers. Hundreds of correspondents daily gather-
ing news from all parts of the world. Features of the highest
character and more of them, many of which are carried by
no other newspaper in the Carolinas. Complete local, State,
nation and world news is furnished daily to readers of THE

THE OBSERVER is a complete newspaper, and it is now
tread daily and Sunday by more people in the Carolinas than
: a reliable newspaper, carrying all
news that is news while it is news, in addition to many inter-
esting features, including a whole page of the most important
comics daily, and a 4-page colored comic section, in addition
to the Red Magic Puzzle Section on Sunday. Its market sec-
, and one of the best sport sections in

If you are not a subscriber to THE CHARLOTTE OB-
SERVER, fill in the coupon below and mail to the Circulation
Department with your subscription, or you may request sam-

ple copies so that you can compare the quality of THE OB-
SERVER with any other metropolitan

: You may subscribe for one month,“three
months, six months or a year.

never read THE OBSERVER, clip the coupon and fill it in for
at least one month’s subscription, which is only 75c, or request
samples, which will be sent upon receipt of coupon.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES BY MAIL

all over the Carolinas to the

newspaper in the
for one year in order to get a

By all means, if you have

Excellent Speakers to
Appear at “Y” Vespers

Judge Currie of Charlotte Will be
Speaker at Next Sunday Service

An excellent schedule of speakers has been
listed for the remainder of the year by the
“Y" cabinet. At the “Y” vespers next. Sun-
day, May 2nd, Judge A. McE. Currie, of
Charlotte, will speak. The list also includes
A. M. Hillhouse, general secretary of the
Y.M.C., A. at DavidsonyMrs. T. W. Lingle,

»iof Davidson, and Dr. C. C. Raynal, of States-

ville.

Judge Currie is already well known to a
great many Davidson students who were for-
tunate enough to hear him speak in Shearer
Hall on athletic night. He is a prominent
attorney of Charlotte, and holds the office of
city recorder in that city.

A special program has been arranged for
the vesper service on May 9th, Mother's Day.
Mrs. T. W. Lingle will address. the students
at that time. Those who have heard Mrs.
Lingle speak before will be glad of the op-
portunity to hear her again, and those who
have not heard her may be assured that a
treat is in store for them. Her address to
the ministerial band two years ago is espe-
cially well remembered by all who heard it.

The speaker for May 16th is “Spoofy”
Hillhouse, ofthe class of '24. “Spoofy” has
served as general secretary of the Y. M, C.
A. this year and has done a great work here
on the campus. Under his direction the “Y"
has put on some excellent programs. During
his college life at Davidson “Spoofy” was
active in many campus activities, and was
president.of the student body during the year
1923-24. He is a Phi Beta Kappa man and
a member of the Omicron Delta Kappa hon-
orary fraternity. He was salutatorian of the
class of '24. Unfortunately he will not re-
turn next year, but will be in school at Caro-
lina.

‘The speaker for May 23rd will probably
be Dr. C. C. Raynal, of Statesville, but he
has not been definitely secured as yet.

The “Y” cabinet has been fortunate enough
to obtain Prof. K. J, Foreman to deliver the
annual “Y" Commencement Sermon on May

30th.

OMICRON DELTA KAPPA

(Continued from page 1)
ling the things he should not do,” said
the speaker in discussing the second idea
what education is. “You must put
first things first, placing them in their
relative importance.”

Dr. Brown declared that all people
have duties placed upon them which they
i“can not shirk and do not wish to shirk.”
“It may be that you owe something to
yourself, to society, to your. family, to

~ your Creator, but there are obligations,

responsibilities and duties which are in-
evitable,” he said.

He touched upon the present-day prob-
lem of the younger generation in this
| conection, by asserting that one of the
outstanding causes for the present status
of young people is the failure of parents
to impress upon them the fact that they
|have duties in life which are inescapable.

“No man liveth unto himself nor dieth
'unto himself alone,” quoted Dr. Brown,
{and he then challenged the new, as well
jas the old, initiated of Omicron Delta
| Kappa bly stating that “you’ve had op-
| portunities here on the campus or in life,
and,unless you take stock and use your
| opportunities, you do not have an edu-
cation.”

Immediately preceding the public ex-
| ercises, the private initiation was held in
|Eumanean hall, and the 90 alumni and
; students of the local chapter adjourned
| after the address to the Maxwell Cham-
| bers hotel here, where a banquet was
| served, *
| The alumni initiated were W. B. S
| Chandler, W. H.. Neal, S. T. Henderson,
|G. S. Crouch, R. H. Lafferty, G. E. Wil-
son; A. L, James, J. B. Johnston, L. D.
Wharton, Sr., Karl Sherrill, R, H. Craw-

Many Deputations
Sent During Week

A representative group of Davidson stu-
dents have made several important deputa-
tions during the last week.

On last Thursday, Roland Parker, Boyce
Martin, Camp O'Neil and Robert Kell went
to Salisbury to close a “Come Clean” cam-
paign which was beipg conducted in the high
school there. Each of the men delivered an
address before the different classes. The
outstandingstheme of all the addresses deliv-
ered was Clean Living. Each man dealt with
a particular phrase of this vital subject, treat-
ing it in such a light that the high school
students would be interested and benefited in
a personal way.

The deputation to Salisbury was a success
in every respect, turning out to be profitable
to the Davidson men as well as the boys and
girls of the high school,

On last Sunday Julian Lake and Clancy
Williams went ‘fo Lexington, N. C., while |
Albert Hillhouse, Hayden Hollingsworth, and
Bill Christian, accompanied-by a vocal quar-
tet consisting of D. G. Wilson, John Foster,
W. O. Green, and Mallory Calhoun, went to
Statesville to bring to a close a meeting
conducted by Miss Mamie Melllwee.  Cal-
houn spoke to the Junior girls; Foster spoke
to the young boys, and D. G. Wilson spoke
to the older boys. Hach of these group meet-
ings proved’ very successiul. That evening |
at the church Hollingsworth and
Hillhouse spoke to the congregation of the
Presbyterian Church, J meeting “vas
sponsored by the yoyrf people of the church,
At this service thé Davidson quartet sang
several selections.

service,

Ss

Mrs. Archibald Currie had as her guest
Friday and Saturday of last week, Mrs. F.
R. Brown, of Salisbury.

Professional Notices

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN

DENTIST
311, 312, 313, 314 and 315 Professional Bldg.

PHONES: Office, £059

Residence, 1937 J CECE ORIEN! Ge

Telephones 12 South Tryon Street
Office $171 Res. 3419-W Over Garibaldi & Bruns

DR. JAY R. McCABE

CHIROPRACTOR
Charlotte, N. C.

Neurocalometer Service

Dr. C. F. Smithson
DENTIST

Charlotte - ) - Ni’ G

Eyes Examined Glasses Fitted

F. C. ROBERTS

OPTOMETRIST
24 South Tryon St.
UpStairs . CHARLOTTE, N, C.
Telephone 3528 :

| or

YOUR BARBER SHOP

When in Statesville and you require those fin-

ishing touches, drop in and let us do the work.

THE COMMERQ#AL BARBER SHOP

Statesville, N. C.

ore

(LILI III III III III III III III III III rere

ARTCRAFT THEATRE

«MOORESVILLE, N. C.
Coming Friday and Saturday, May 7th and 8th
“HAROLD LLOYD”
In his last and greatest comedy, ‘‘For Heaven’s Sake’’
Admission, 15 and 35 cents
‘A PARAMOUNT SPECIAL”

~

| Hollingsworth

Visit Our New Fountain When in Charlotte

Tryon Drug Co.

7. « . Agents 2: ...
Nunnally Whitman Candies

SELBY ICE

Prompt attention to orders for
fine Ice Cream

SELBY ICE CREAM CO.
STATESVILLE, N. C.

gp

CREAM CO.

1 Mo. 3 Mos..6 Mos. 1 Year ford, L. B. Crayton, Paul M. Neisler, C.

Daily and Sunday -------+_. 7c = $2.25 $4.50 $9.00 E. Neisler, Jr., A. A. McLean, R. G. Fin-| =
Daily without Sunday ------ 65t 1.75 3.50 7.00 ley, George M. King, C. W. Angle, Ralph |
Sunday Only _-----__-__. --- 40c 1.00 1.75 3.50 S. Robinson, F. L. Smyre, E, Leslie Al-, L H d
aH Coren ORSERVER ford, J. F. Hurley, R, T. Gillespie, J. G.| etter reads

3 : D Patton, O. J. Huie, and C. L. Grey. |
Circulation Department, The students taken into membership Envelopes
Charlotte, N. Carolina. were L. B. Huie, F. A, Alford, H. L.
_; Gentlemen: Enclosed find $_______ fone oe months sub-

Vance, J. M. Garrison, J. F. Pinkney, L.;
D. Wharton, Jr.. W. H. Branch, W. A. |
Christian, W. T. Covington, J. H, Mc-
: ; Connell and H. H. Austin.
Dr. and Mrs. W. J. Martin were guests at
the Whitlock-Cobb wedding, which was sol- |"
emnized last Wednesday in Charlotte.

Programs

Tickets

Send them to Brady at Statesville and they will
be printed right.

scription to THE (Daily and Sunday) OBSERVER.
(Daily Only)

