_She is certain to appreciate all bits of scan-|

THE DAVIDSONTAN, ” JANUARY 21, 1926

| “I was engaged to a girl with a wooden leg,
| but I broke it off.”

TE W DENT
ASSITET Y.

| The followiie is a letter written by the
This column is under the general super- famous Droopy Hudgins to his Hard Heart-
vision of Mrs. I. C. You, whose formal title|¢d Hannah. As he always makes a carbon

: : : sa? psa f his letters, he submitted this for our
is the Gossip Editor of the David’s Onion. | COPY Of, , : ‘
8 | disapproval. If you are having trouble in

dal which materialize on the campus. She | Your love affairs, see Droop, he writes these
will pay for this information at the price of | and similar letters free of all charges for
one ruble per word. , It might be noted that | 50 cents each.

the price of rubles has jumped from nothing Dear’ Sweetie: :

to ten trillion for a dollar. Don't get ex- If the log turns over I will drown, there-
cited, Freshmen. All those wishing to con- fore don’t send me no wood for Xmas. Our
tribute will please place their articles in the | dog SS ENCUY, sick and we are afraid he has
box provided for the purpose on the golf | been eating dogwood. We have a fine place
course, Payment will be left under their here, and are far from the madding (or
pillows the following night by the fairy.

' maddening) crowd. We are so far back in
es a the woods that there isn’t even a footpath,
The right Reverend Thomas C. A. Law-| 5° We have to .walk the last mile on our
son, D.D., on the barn-storming tour of the, hands. It is so far from anything back here
Cowboys, became so infatuated with the that it takes three days for sun to travel and
spectacle before his eyes at Blowing Rock! We haven’t had any sunlight for a week on
that he could not resist giving an exhibition @ccount of the pipes being frozen which
of the latest Charleston steps upon the ice, | bring the sunlight back to us. We are hay-
However, tragedy left its mark upon his | ing a fine time with only the frogs and bugs
frame, and he now sports a deep red gash; to keep us company. When We Crave! excite=
upon his head. We still insist that tl hard- Ment, we can get plenty of it by going out
est thing about ice-skating is the ice! and killing a couple of mosquitoes and hang- |
RE seni, ing them up to dry. We go to the city once

Mr. Francis Wilkinson, who starred so @ Month and have a fine time then. The only
nobly in “Tailor Made,” has made the start- | trouble is that it takes up 14 days to get there

| accompanied by the volunteer band, playing,

Literary Societies

At a meeting ofthe Metrophilian Lit-
erary Society last Thursday evening it
was unanimously decided to turn the
hall, which was given to them by the
college, to the Y. M. C. A. for its use.

This hall, which was formerly
cupied by the Phi Gamma Delta frater-
nty, is located in the lower part of the
Philanthropic Society Hall. It wauld
cost the Metrophilians about one thou-
sand dollars to furnish this room so that
it could be used as a society hall and the ,
society did not feel that it was quite
equal to this heavy burden, Added to
this, the Philanthropic hall could be
used without in any way interfering with |
the Philanthropic society, so it was quite |
agreeable from all angles that the Y. M.
C. A. have this hall. It is given to the |
Y. M. C. A. in the form of a three-year |
lease. The expenses in connection with |
the upkeep of the hall have been ar- |
ranged between the two organizations.

The Y. M. C. A. has for some time been |
very much handicapped by not having a
hall within easy reach of all, its only |
quarters being in the gymnasium. The |
Y. M. C. A. proposed to furnish this |

oc-

State Glee Club Contest
to be Staged at Durham

Winner Will be Given New York
Trip to Try for Additional
Honors

The North Carolina Association of
Glee Clubs will hold its annual Glee Club
Contest in February at Durham. All
glee clubs which are members of this as-
sociation are eligible for entry into this
contest. The Davidson College
Club which previous to this year has
taken no part in this association will be
represented this year.

All ofthe prominent college glee clubs
in the state are members of this associa-
tion and will therefore participate in the
contest. There are requirements of the
clubs other than membership in this as-

sociation in order to be eligible for the |
Each club can only be repre- |
sented by thirty men and these men must |
not only be members of their particular |

contest.

club but they must also be taking a full
course in under-graduate study.

Each club will give three choruses in
this contest. One chorus will be the
prize song, that is, the song which every
club will be required to sing and upon

Glee |

tions are assured in Europe. Trips aside
|from the regular itinerary can be ar-
|ranged by “those desiring them at a
|nominal cost.
| Dr. Currie does not expect to. personal-
{ly conduct or act as courier for the
| group o& students as the tour is under
| the supervision of the Ravenell Co., which
will provide couriers for the members of
the party.

Several students have expressed their
interest in the proposed tour and are
planning to make the trip.

Just because Harry Vance walks with a
shuffle is no sign that he ts a bridge shark.

———

ART FLOWER SHOP

The home of Beautiful

Flowers

Flowers for the Home, Wed-

dings and all Occasions

Expert Designing

room and maintain a kind of social hall| which the decision to a large extent will

ling statement that “Love is the only fire
upon which you can get no insurance.”

The rough and ready Robert W. Graves,
that notorious inhabitant of the wild and
woolly wastes of Georgia, has announced
that immediately after the presentation of
“The Lost World,” he will give a length
dissertation on just how, in his extensive
travels, he came in contact with and upon
numerous occasions captured such frightful
beasts as pictured in the aforesaid cinema,
especially pink elephants and green snakes,

Mr. Robert Missing Link, beautiful mem-
ber of the younger set of Abbeville, S. C.,
and widely resognized critic of Boccaccio’s
DeCameron, is rumored to have remained
on the campus last Sunday afternoon due to
inclement weather and pecuniary disability.
The absence of the Missing Link caused
many a sad heart on the Winthrop campus,
where he has been seen frequently on Sun-
day afternoons.

Mr. Would B. Brown, promoter of heath-
en dramatics and idolatrous worship, is said
to have been using the military tactics of
Gideon, using an alarm clock and pitcher to
wreak vengeance upon his arch enemies.

Mr. Joe Garrison announces his intention
of opening a correspondence school for the
perfection of the terpsichorean art. No one
but STAGS allowed to enroll. Practices
will be held on Saturday night after the
pictures,

Master Garnett Maxmillian, youthful
prodigy of 13 years, whose superhuman in-
tellectual capabilities have won the admira-
tion of local psychology experts, is said to
have been recently elected to membership in
the mystic society of Sons and Daughters I
Will Arise. Maximillian’s election to this
noted organization while still so young is a
source of gratification to his mother and
father, who insist that he has shown unusual
mental traits since the day after his birth,
on which occasion he is said to have recited
without mistake Sappho’s Odes in Greek.

and 14 days to get back, so we only have two! and library where the boys may get to-
days to spend in the city, Last February we! gether and talk or study and feel perfect:
met ourselves coming back before we got} ly at home.
there. We have only two days to spend |
there, and as we have nothing to spend when |
we get there we don’t spend it because we Mpegs :
don’t know what to spend it for. My dear- | P hi Literary Society

est sweetie, when I think of you you remind | _ Because of evasive play rehearsals,
me of the moonshine, and I become cla ea other things, the attendance
with intoxication. It is now the first day of @t the regular meeting ofthe Phi Society
January, and the sad, sad, memories of the
days that I can’t recall overwhelm me. (If
you wish to weep at this point, please use a
handkerchief, as this is expensive stationery).
I sure do hope you have a happy new year,
and if I can find that ten cents I’ve been
saving I’m sure going to send you some!
candy as I think a lot of you as you can)
easily see because I spent thirty cents on you |
last summer and only had ten dates with)
you. ‘Don’t worry, though, for I will never |
let Papa know how extravagant I was, I
hear that you are planning to get married. |
Well, I don’t believe I’ll send you that candy.) ~”. " F
I guess you will do pretty good by marrying | ote ae BED taken ne i A.
that young feller, but of course you couldn't | net ie re _he was opposed by G. F.
do as well as if you had married me-as I am) OUCK: 44S in the main debate, the af-
handsome, good-looking, attractive, sweet, | pimatve oes CE Cia {ero

gentle, have unkissable lips, am well-bread, | ane decision committee was made up
and! would tell you about amyselé if modesty | Of W. C. Archer, W. E. Phifer, and W.
did not prohibit my doing so. Well, sweetie, , A. Brown,

dent body and the Y. M. C. A.

erage.

J. W. Crinkley led the devotional ex-
ercises, after which the debate took place.
The subject was, “Resolved: That the
Federal Estate Law he repealed.” Geo,
Crawford and Frank Hall upheld the af-
firmative while M. A. Morrison and S, C.
Miller presented the negative side, the
affirmative winning.

After the main debate, an extempo-
raneous one was held on the subject:
Snowballing should be abolished by a
resolution of the student body. The

last Thursday was slightly below the av- |

be based.
|chorus which must be a school or col-

This step promises to great- | lege song of that particular club. The|
ly strengthen the ties between the stu-p third chorus may be any song which the |

| ; ‘
|club desires to sing. No accompaniment

of any sort will be allowed with these
|choruses, nor will any direction be al-
|lowed by any instructor while his club is
| singing.

The judges of this contest will be ex-
|perts in the quality of musical presenta-
tions and they will base their decisions
on the very requisites of good music.
The winner of this state contest will be
sent to New York to take part in a na-
tional contest for glee clubs in the U. S.
which will be held at a later. date.

The Durham Chamber of Commerce
will be host to the visiting glee clubs.
The contest, although belonging to the
association itself, is being fostered by
Paul J. Weaver, the director of music at
the University of North Carolina.

Professor Currie
to Tour Continent

It has become a custom that every sum-
mer a group of Davidson students will

|

Then, there will be another |

Prompt Delivery

||. ART FLOWER SHOP

| DAVIS ROBINSON, Prop.

| 336 N. Tryon Street

Phone 6728 Charlotte, N. C.

Night Phone—County 3321-3260

$$,
———

from
Hobnails
to

Canvass

here’s wishing you a happy marriage and a} cae business ae ee after
merry honeymoon, viten the meeting adjourned. studying in Europe and England. Again

I hope you will have ay
happy married life but I don’t much expect Metro another attractive opportunity is offered
The regular mecting ofthe Metrophil- | the students to spend a part of their sum-

You'll find a shoe

for every need that a

spend their summer vacation touring or

you to as you made’a great mistake in not |
marrying me. I am enclosing a bill covering | ian literary society was held on Tuesday | mer abroad. Dr. A. Currie is co-opera-
everything that I spent on you, and I hope| night, January 14th. Although some of | ting with the Ravenell Co., of Charleston,
you will give it to your future husband at the program was not carried out on ac- | S.'C. in engaging students to take the 37
the earliest date so that I can get back all I count of ‘absence of members, a good | day tour offered by that company.

ever spent on you. By the way, I think you! meeting was enjoyed. The devotional | The party will sail from New York
ought to pay interest, as I sure was interested | was first on the program and was led by | June 26th on the S. S. President Harding
in you. Well, good-bye forever, I will call Roland Sims. This was followed by |and return to New York around August

‘Davidson man may
have.

PRING? - Yes,

there are some

you up tomorrow night. Current Events given by Hagood. |2nd on the S. S. Republic. The tour is |SMappy shoes in now.
' I wish I wasn't but I might have been The debate of the evening was im-| very comprehensive in its scope, em-
| Your sweet patootie, promptu, the query being, “Resolved: | bracing stays in London, Amsterdam, the
| Droopy. That R. O. T. C. at Davidson College; Hague, a trip down the Rhine into

Editor’s Note: Perhaps you have a gir] Should be abolished.” The affirmative | Switzerland, an excursion on lake Lu-
\that you would like to “kick.” See Droopy, W@s upheld by Bill Covington and S. W.)cerne, a short stay in Geneva and a week
He will write a letter similar to the above “™ith while on the negative were Camp | in Paris.

for you, and all of your troubles will be ©Neal and Roland Parker. The judges) The proposed tour is a very inexpen-

Serviceable, stylish,

economical.

lover. The one he sent this letter to is sue- @2Warded the affirmative the decision by | sive one, costing only $397 from New

Hayden Hollingsworth, well know Russian | ing him for manslaughter with intent to kill. 2 2 to I vote.

| York back to New York, inclusive of ac-

danseur, has volunteered to render his own;

Before the meeting adjourned, “Spoofy” | commodations. On the boat and in Eu-

GILMER-MOORE’S

CHARLOTTE

interpretation of the Paris Island Marine

“Were your eggs cooked long enough?” | Hilhouse made a short talk in which he |
Wiggle, at the next stag: dance. He will |

“Yes, but not soon enough.” asked that the society turn over the |
lower floor of Phi Hall for an office and |
recreational room forthe “Y”’, His re-|
| quest was granted on the condition that |
;the society might take over the floor |
| again at any time, provided they gave six |

=—— Be
months’ notice. |

MAXWELL-CHAMBERS HOTEL | |

With only four letter men back, Captain |
| Weems has had a little trouble whipping a!
| presentable team into shape. But all the |
|men have been working faithfully and the!
|grapplers should continue to give a good |
}account of themselves. They have a nice|
| schedule ahead of them. Duke, State, Navy |

Dacideonians and their uests jand possibly V. P. I. will be met during the |
g§ | coming season. |
always welcome

Synonomous for excellent board and
good service---at just the right price

Rivalry for the hand of a certain beauti-
ful young co-ed has led four of Davidson’s
{most gallant young swains to band them-
| selves together in an immortal band. These
heroes have. adopted for themselves the title
of “The Four-Horsed Men of the Puckered
Lips.”

“Feeds,” “Smokes” and Banquets
given special attention

MANAGERS
E. F. BOHANNON

Farmers aren’t the only ones who make

E. K. REGEN H. |L. SHAW, Jr. their living from the dirt. Consider lord

rope the party will travel in students
class, and excellent hotel accommoda-

“EVERYTHING MUSICAL”

PIANOS, PLAYER-PIANOS
VICTROLAS

RECORDS AND ROLLS

Band instruments of all kinds, stringed instruments

SHEET MUSIC

OLDEST IN THE STATE

ANDREW

MUSIC 213
STORE N. Tryon St.

i Helper.

