THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 1, 1926

Gastonia is a young city offering great opportunities to young men.

GASTONIA #

The Combed Yarn Manufacturing Center of the South

The capital of Gaston, one of the most progressive of North Carolina’s hundred counties.

David

invited to consider Gastonia when choosing their future homes.

The CHAMBER OF COMMERCE will be glad to furnish detailed information.

son graduates are

TENNIS TEAM OF 1915

Davidson Had State
Championship Team

In the spring of 1915 Davidson had a ten-
nis team that ranked as one of the highest
in the southeast, as well as in the state: The
two members in the picture both played an
excellent game, and the manager, on the
right, was one of the most popular men on
the campus at that time.

On the left is the Rev. Norman Johnson, |

now the pastor of the Presbyterian Church
of Blacksburg, Va. He was graduated from

Davidson in 1915, and went to teach in Foun- |

tain, N. C. After a year there he attended
the Union Theological Seminary and upon

his graduation, was given the pastorate in|

Blacksburg, which he now holds.

In the center is J. R. Woods, now a mis-
sionary stationed at Chiang Kiang, China.
He was graduated with the class of 1918 and
taught at the McCallie School, in Chatta-
nooga, Tenn., for two years, later attending
the Seminary in Richmond.

On the right is J. P. Williams, a graduate
of the class of 1916. While a student here,

a!

Society Brand
Clothes

Stetson Hats

Manhattan Shirts and Un-

derwear

Bradley Bathing Suits

KIRBY-WARREN CO.

The home of good clothes for men,
young men and boys

SS

!“Shorty” was president of his Sophomore| was recently elected to the coveted ed-

class, president of the student body, manager
of the tennis team, editor-in-chief of The
Davidsonian, a member of the “Y” cabinet,
!and president of the Eumanean Literary So-
I ciety. Aiter Mr. William left here he be-
came registrar of the University of New
Mexico, later a teacher in Montreat, N. C.,

{and president of Greenbrier Military. School. !

| He came to Davidson as the “Y” secretary

for 1923-25, and then accepted a position as
registrar at the University of New York
| Business College. He is to return to Da-
| vidson this coming fall as instructor in busi-
| ness administration,

| CAMPUS LEADERS GET

(Continued from page 1)
!Ga., has made a conspicuous record as
| major of the R. O. T. C. battalion. In
| addition this high position, he has
| gained prominence as a basketball star
having been the mainstay of his class
team for four years and making his var-
aise letter this season.

to

He is a member
land one of the organizers of the Honor-
|ary Fraternity Council. On the Court of
| Control for two years he has been one of
| the two representatives of his class. He
jis affiliated with the Scabbard and Blade
and Sigma Pi Sigma honorary groups
| and is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta
| Fraternity.

| Harry Lee Vance, of Huntersville, N.
IC, is probably the premier athlete of the
| Wildcat tribe. As an all-state ‘guard on
| the famous wildcat eleven for two years,
jand, the star slugger on the baseball
|nine he has gained wide notoriety. He
|is also a varsity wrestler. His prowess

as an athletic star was signally recog-
nized by the student body when they
made him president of the athletic asso-
ciation last fall and also awarded him the
| Norris Trophy this spring.

Joseph M. Garrison, of Covington, Ga.,
has just finished a highly successful
career varsity basketball manager.
Since his first year, he has been’ active
in campus activities. He was a Junior-
Senior debater and is now President of
the Pandeinic Society. He has given the

i
|

as

college its best season of movies for
several years. He is a member of the
th tal) 4

|“Y” cabinet and has served for two

years on the business staff of the “David-
sonian.” Among his other activities have
been those incumbent upon his place on
| the “Y” Board of Control.

The other eight men extended invita-

4 tions are members of the Junior class.

| James F, Pinkney, of Canyon City, Colo.,
is the recently elected President of the
Student Body for the coming year. This
is the highest honor at the disposal of
the students. Pinkney has long since
gained prominence by his stellar playing
as end on the football team where he re-
ceived all-state mention. He has served
as president of the Junior Class this year
and also as vice-president of both the
Student Body and Athletic Association.
| Pinkney as a leading member of the local
|chapter of Beta Theta Pi is among the

| social leaders on the Hill.

L. D. (Don) Wharton, Jr., of Smith-
field, N. C., has steadily mounted the lad-+
der of college fame until today he is
probably a’ leader in more phases of
campus life than any member of his
class. He has distinguished himself by
winning a place on the literary staff of
every publication in school: ‘“Davidson-
ian,” Magazine, Annual, Sanity Rare, and
the “Y” handBtok. This is a distinction
which has been held by only a few stu-
dents in the history of the college. He

Lof. the-ablest writers

itorship of “Quips and Cranks” and was
runner-up in The “Davidsonian”
Wharton, as a leader in forensic circles,
was placed on two intercollegiate debat-
ing teams, is an outstanding Metrophil-
ian and will be president of the Foren-
Council for the coming year. His
prominence in other circles is demon-
strated by his election to Sigma Upsilon,
Alpha Phi Epsilon, Omega Phi Alpha,
and Delta Pi Kappa, respectively prom-
inent literary, forensic, philosophy, and

race.

sic

journalistic fraternities. He is’ the Junior
representative on the Publications Board.
Wharton is a member of the Delta Theta
Chi Fraternity.

Joseph H. McConnell, of Davidson, N.
C., was elected last week to the distin-
guished position as President of the ris-
ing Senior class. He is one of the heroes
of the Wildcat football machine receiv-
ing wide mention as all-state center. He
has also been on the basketball squad
for two years in addition to holding the
place as stellar pinch hitter on the base-
ball nine. McConnell is just completing
a term as vice-president of his class. He
is ranked among the best chemistry
scholars in his class. He is the Pen-Hel-
lenic representative of the Kappa Alpha
fraternity.

W. Harllee Branch, of Atlanta, Ga.,
Was conspicuously honored by his re-
cent election to the editorship of the
“Davidsonian.” He won a place aniong
the journalistic elite carly in his career
and is, just completing a year as Man-
aging Editor of the above’ publication,
the highest journalistic position open to
a Junior. He is also editor of “Sanity
Rare.” Branch has gained recognition as
an orator of power and was chosen on
the Sewanee debating team along with
Wharton. Branch proved himself
quite versatile, serving as assistant man-
ager of basketball and also as chairman
of the important Junior Speaking Com-
mittee. He is a member of Alpha Phi
Epsilon and Delta Pi Kappa, and of:the
local chapter of the.Beta Theta Pi Social
Fraternity. beg

W. A. (Bill) Christian, of Mobile, Ala.,
gained early prominence when he was
elected as the first executive of his class.
He was only recently made President of
the Y. M. C. A. in which organization he
is now secretary. He, too, is an inter-
collegiate debater (alternate) and a mem-
ber of the Alpha Phi Epsilon. Christian
has served continuously on the Student
Council and was honored his sophomore
year by his election to the secretaryship
of the Athletic Association. He is also
secretary of the I. R. Club, and is a
leading Eumanean and the first scholar
of the Junior class. He is a member of
the Phi Gamma Delta Fraternity.

W. T. (Bill) Covington, of Raeford, N.
C., since his election to the presidency of
his class in his sophomore year has been
recognized as one of the foremost men
of the student body. He is just giving
up the vice-presidency of both the Y. M.
C. A. and the Student Body the two high-
est positions in each of organizations for
which a Junior was eligible. He is one
4or, the “Davidson-
ian” and is a leading Metrophilian. He
was a close runner-up in both the “Y”
and Senior class presidency races and
was also second man in the race for the
presidency of the Student Body. He is
a member of Alpha Phi Epsilon, Omega
Phi Alpha, Student Council, Reporters’
Club and other organizations. He is
affiliated with the local chapter of the
Sigma Alpha: Phi Epsilon Fraternity.

has

Holcombe M. Austin, of Laredo, Texas,
lead the Junior class honor roll by a mar-
gin of more than one point this year.
He has gained recognition from the first
as a premier scholar. His work for the
“Davidsonian” is easily comparable with
that of any member of the Reporters’
Club, which organization elected him to
membership: his freshman year. He re-
ceived the signal distinction of election
to the presidency of the Spanish Club
his sophomore year and was the first
Junior to win an invitation from Omega
Phi Alpha, the Philosophy Fraternity,
Sigma Upsilon and the T. R. Club recent-
ly elected him also. He is a member of
the Dramatic Club and manager of var-
sity tennis. He is now well advanced to-
wards the finals in the tennis elimination
tournament which is being held in order
to determine the tennis varsity for this
year,
active student members of Omi-
Delta Kappa are Hollingsworth,
Shaw, Parker, Deck, C. F. Smith, Ander-
Monk, Laird,
Wilson, Hendrix, Graves, and Gracey.

The

cron

son, Sappenfield, Regen,

An elaborate banquet and public initia-
tion ceremony will be held on Monday
night, April 26th.

LYNN McLAIN WINS

(Continued from page 1)
squad and of the Kappa Alpha fraternity.
Arbuckle is a member of the Beaver club
and the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity.

The remainder of the elections will be held
some time after the holidays. The present
officers of this class are W. O. Nesbitt,
president; H. M. Arrowood, vice-president ;
and L. B. McClain, secretary and treasurer.

Biology Department Has
Secured New Professor

Prof. Scott C. Lyon, formerly a professor
of biology in Southwestern University, at
Clarksville, Tenn., will be a member of the
Davidson faculty next year. Professor Lyon
is now taking graduate work at the Univer-
sity of Chicago.

He is very well and very favorably known
in the Southern Presbyterian Church. He
was here for a few days in the fall, and
made a very favorable’ impression on all
those who met him. He is to take most of
the general biology work and also one or
two classes in zoology.

Professor Lyon has been for several years
connected with the bureau of. entomology,
and he will be working with them this sum-
mer on the tobacco worm.

Professor Lyon will take Dr. Porter's
place next year, and Dr. Porter will be
shifted to the chair of Geology, at his own
request. The Department of Biology has
been steadily growing for the last few years,
both in size and in quality.

Professor Davis, who graduated from Da-
vidson in the class of ’23, is assistant profes-
sor of Biology and has charge of most of the
laboratory work. The authorities are: plan-
Fes to make several changes in the courses
also. It is understood that the Physiology
_and Hygiene which is being taught this year,
i will be made Biology I next year, and that
several other shifts of similar nature will
be made.

With this reorganization of the courses,
and the change of professors, both the De-
partment of Biology and the Department of
Geology will be improved. The Science De-
| partment has been improving steadily lately
land this will be another step in that direction.

Oar Appreciation of Your Patronage Sticks in Every Package

J. L. Adams Drug Store

“WHERE QUALITY COUNTS”
OPPOSITE THE POSTOFFICE AND JUST AS RELIABLE

GASTONIA, N. C.

cy

able

Spring, Linen and Wash-

See our new line of Spring Linen and Seer-

sucker Suits displayed here

~ APRIL 12

STAR DIRECT TAILORS

ZIMMERMAN & RAGAN, Representatives

Suits

+},
