THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 4, 1926

Tryouts for George Washington
Debate to be Held November 9

The tryouts for the debates with V. P.
I. and George Washington will be held
November oth at 8:30. They will be de-
livered in Shearer Hall. From a large
field of competitors that have already
signified their intention of trying out, two
men will be chosen to represent David-
son against both George Washington and
V. P. 1. There will be five faculty judges.
Either side of the query may be used in
the tryouts.

The forensic council has recently com-
pleted all arrangements for these two
debates. The V. P. I. debate will be held
at V. P. I. on Friday night, December
loth. The team will then return to Char-
lotte and debate George Washington on
the night of December 13th at Queens
College. Davidson will have the negative
side both debates. The subject is:
“Resolved, That the Volstead Act should
be modified to include light wines and
beer.”

The

in

men that have already signified
their intention of trying out are: H. T.
Powell, L. M. McCutchen, C. G.. Davis,
R. A. Grady, L. K. Pritchett, R. Wallace,
and W. K. Pritchett. Others will likely
be prepared by the night of the tryouts.
These,are urged to turn their names in
to Henry Powell in 201,,West.

QUEENS GLEE CLUB

- (Continued from page 1)
and will also be presented on Stunt Night.
As the glee club has charge of the per-
formance on Stunt Night, many attractions
have been arranged. The Dramatic Club
will present one-act play written by local
talent, under the direction of Prof. E, J. Er-
win. The receipts from the entertainment
will be used to help to pay off the debt 6f
the glee club.

SENIOR BIOGRAPHIES

All seniors are hereby urged
again to deposit their biography or
senior write-up for the 1027 Quips
and Cranks in the annual box in
the lobby. of Georgia Dormitory.

As announced in the regular class
meeting each senior is responsible
for his own biography being turned
in to the annual staff. Each is
urged, however, to secure some
friend to write him up. :

The biographies should be ap-
proximately one hundred and fifty
words in length, which is consider-
ably longer than heretofore used in
Davidson annuals. This is made
possible by appropriating more
space than usual to the senior class.
It is the desire of the annual staff
to have these biographies of more
than the, usual interest.

Originality in approach of the
subject and observation of the
idiosyncrasies of the subject on the
part of those writing is greatly de-
sired.

DON WHARTON, Editor.

Annual Fraternity Bid
Day to be Held Friday

| “Y” Column

HELP THE TEAM

The students are asked to refrain
“from going out on the athletic ‘field
and playing around with the extra
footballs. This practice detracts
from the team’s efficiency, and is
very annoying to the coaches as
well. Stick behind the team and
help in this way to win the State
pennant this year!

1927 NORRIS TROPHY

(Continued from page 1)
trophy. In the absence of the ex-officio
chairman, the director of athletics shall pre-
side at all meetings of the committee.
alumni secretary shall act as secretary to the
committee and shall keep a record of all pro-
ceedings.

2. To be eligible for the trophy the pros-
pective recipient must have attained a passing
grade on at least 75 per cent of his scholastic
work carried on during the year.

3. The winner shall be determined by a
popular vote of the student body in a_ pri-
mary election to be held during the first part
of April, and in a final election to be held at

for the election of officers of the student
government.
4. The three men receiving the highest

and shall enter the final election to be held
simultaneously with the election of officers
of the student government, as provided above.
5. Each regularly enrolled student of the
college may vote once for the candidate of
his choice in the primary by writing said can-
didate’s name on the ballot prepared for that
purpose and depositing same in the ballot
box; but after the field of candidates has
been narrowed to three by the primary, only
the three men receiving the highest number
of votes shall be considered in the final elec-
tion.

6. Ballots for the final election shall carry
the names of the three candidates, indicate
his choice by a cross-mark (X) after the
name of the candidate for whom he elects to
vote. ;

7. Balloting in both the pirmary and the
final eletcion shall be conducted by represen-
tatives of the Norris Athletic committee, Im-
mediately after the primary the committee
shall determine by a count the three candi-
dates to enter the final election. Their names
shall be published in the student newspaper,
The Davidsonian, and shall be posted on all
college bulletin boards.

8. If the three men receiving the highest
number of votes in the primary are below
the scholastic standard adopted, the commit-
tee may substitute the name of the next high-
est men whose scholarship work meets the
requirements. In determining the scholastic
standard of a student, the committee shall be
guided by the records on file in the registrar’s
office.

9. All expenses incurred in holding both
the primary and the final elections, suzh as

printing the ballots, etc., shall be borne by
the Davidson Athletic Association. |

Every minute $1104. worth of property is con-
sumed by fire and every day 42 persons burned
to death with 46 injured. Be careful and help

stop this awful waste.
McALISTER CARSON, Mgr. Insurance Department
INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Can serve you.

° aoe L

This Hotel is Yours

to use for all FEEDS AND BANQUETS
no matter how large or how small, we

Regular board---reasonable---and the best
your. money can buy.

Music in the evenings.

-MAXWELL-CHAMBERS HOTEL

DAVIDSON, N. C.

Pet

number of votes in the primary election shall |
be considered as candidates for the trophy, |

The |

| Conference in Milwaukee, Minn., lasting |
the same time and place that balloting occurs |
/an extremely valuable group of meetings | discussion of the problems of their publica-

| tacular address by Mr. W. O. Saunders, edi-

| two other social’ occasions before Xmas.

The “Y” is very anxious that all those
who want roonis reserved for girls on the
/“Y” house-party, planned for the 13th of
this month, let Jim Appleby know: at
Don’t neglect to do this. |

Eight National and Three Local
Chapters to Extend Bids to
Freshmen

once.

ae Annual bid day, of the social frater-
The regular fall meeting of the “Y” | nities will take ‘place Friday, November
will get under way on Sunday, November | sth. This date is exactly a month earlier
7th, when Dr. Ben Lacy will begin aj than bid day last year. The Pan Hellenic
series of meetings. He will have charge | Council has made this change in the
(of the morning worship at the college | date for several reasons. The college au-
church and the vesper service in the eve-|thorities granted permission for’ this
ning on Sunday, and he will also conduct | change in date because the scholastic re-
a meeting each evening through Wednes- | ports of the freshmen can be obtained
day. The college quartet will assist Dr.| from their first month grades. Hereto-
LLacy in these services and plans are/fore it has been necessary to postpone

Professional Notices

Phones: Office, 588---Residence, 65-3

DR. VANCE HASTY
DENTIST ;

Anderson Building, Court Street Entrance Com-
me. cial National Bank Building

STATESVILLE, N. C.
Hours: Daily 8 to 5. Evenings 7 to 9. Sundays
12 to 2

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN

DENTIST
811, 812, 313, 314 and 315 Professional Bu‘lding

Charlotte, N. C.
Phones: Office 5050. Residence, 1937-J

|made to get somebody from the outsided | hid day till after Thanksgiving when the
| . . pre : ” | e . 7
to lead the singing as the “Y” was un-/|mid-semester reports are registered, in
able to secure a quartet from one of the |order to verify the eligibility of fresh-
|seminaries as has been the custom in| men,
. . |
|former years. Interviews with Dr. Lacy | : j
work | A shorter rushing season is advanta-
are to be arranged and those desiring ap- |
[ae ; | geous not only to the freshmen but to the
pointments are asked to hand their names Pea it th ; b
; ; ; ‘ ; ; reshm pper ssm -
in to Bill Covington. These interviews | Me Oa Wek: fe) Une Bboy nle te 2 AU A
‘ 4 'cause of the fact that. rushing is expen-
will be held in the room on the left of | ~ \ ; ey, t
ips : ( |sive and requires ood deal of extra
the “Y” hall, making a very “pleasant )”, Se ees ee. é
time of the fraternity members, as well
place for such conferences. ;
as keeping the freshmen more or less

There is to be a National Students’ | disorganized.

from December 28 to January 1. This is |

and the “Y” officials hope to send a dele- | tions. Lunch was served to the delegates in
gate, representing the local organization | the college dining room.

of the Y. M.C. A. Davidson was represented at thé convention
| by ten delegates, constituting the largest dele-
| gation at the conference. The Davidson
delegates included: Harllee Branch, Boycé
Martin, Ed. Douglass, and Martin Craw-
ford, for The Davidsonian; H. M. Austin,
Eugene Witherspoon, and W. S. Woods, for
The Chameleon; and Don Wharton, C. W.
Williams, for Quips and Cranks, and Vernon
Broyles, who is vice-president of the asso-

Oo
In addition to the house-party planned
for Home-coming Day, the “Y” will have

These will be in the nature of small re- |
ceptions, for which more definite plans |
will be announced later. |

Heal

Some very generous gifts have been

received from the people of the town and | ciation.
the “Y” wishes to thank those persons
most kindly for the interest displayed| ————

CHIROPRACTOR
DR. LEE E. KISER

STATESVILLE, N. C.
Phones 169 and 706

PRINTING

hen in need of first-class job

x
;
x
:
x

€

rinting of any description, see

oO

VERNON S. BROYLES

QUICK SERVICE
BEST PRICES

Agent for

Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.

Charlotte, N. C.

in the work of the Y. M. C. A.

A little pamphlet entitled “Every Man’s
Life a Plan of God,” the author closes
with a short sentence that is a remark-
able sermon in itself and one that would

Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach
and Goldsmith

Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

——————————————————

be of profit for us to examine. He says:
“Understand also that the great question

+

here is not what you will get, but what
you will become. The greatest wealth
you can ever get will be in yourself.”
Would we not do well to: ponder a lit-
tle over that short phrase, and attempt to
apply it to our life here in college? D «
— - rinks
In line with the references to prayer
made in this column heretofore, the Na-
tional Council of the Y. M. C. A. an-
nounces a nation-wide Week of Prayer,
November 14th to November 20. The Da-
vidson “Y” hopes to enter heartily in

In Statesville We Are Located
TO SERVE YOU

Candy
Austin Candy Shop

Statesville, N. C.

4

Smokes

this movement and encourage all to avail
themselves of this way to a closer friend-
ship with God.

W

|
|
|
|
|

COLLEGE JOURNALISTS

(Continued from page 1)
the collegiate journalists listened to a spec-

tor of the Elizabeth City Independent.’ Mr.
Saunders urged more college writers to enter
the field of country journalism, declaring that
young editors are finding a fertile field for
the expression of original and independent
ideas in the rural sections.

“The country journals are being crowded

HITE DRUG COMPANY

A complete line of Stationery, Toilet Articles
and Kodak Supplies

dD

We are ready to serve you

Drugs, Cigarettes, Cigars
Dunhill & Kaywoodie Pipes

to the wall-by the big metropolitan dailies,”
declared Mr. Saunders, “but if you are look-
ing for a field in which you cap say what
you please, like you please, and when you
please, you will enter the rural communities,
where there is a need for independent editors.
There an editor is able to keep a continual
check on the pulse of his people, to know
his readers intimately, and to write without
fear of consequences.”

Following Mr. Saunders’ address, the dele-
gates adjourned to the home of the president
of Salem College, where they were honor
guests at an informal reception. This was
followed by a theater party at one of Win-
ston-Salem’s largest vaudeville houses.

The Friday sessions of the convention were
featured by open-forum. discussions.of the
problems of the publications, reports from
the delegates, and other routine business. In
the afternoon the delegates were shown about
the city in cars furnished by interested resi- i
dents. A banquet at the Forsyth Country
Club occupied the Friday evening session of
the conclave.

The convention closed at noon Saturday,
following an all-morning session at which
the delegates were permitted to continue their

The

CREDENZA, $300.00

fe

ORTHOPHONIC
) VICTROLA

ANDREW’S

213 N, Tryon St.

New

The Finest Musical Instrument
in the World

‘Prices $95 to $1,000
All Models in Stock—Easy Terms ©

NEW RECORDS

- EVERY FRIDAY

MUSIC STORE

Charlotte, N. C.

t
