2

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 13, 1926

Last Three Track
Leaders Hold Jinx

For the past three years the captains of
the Wildcat track team have had hard luck.
Two of them have sprained their ankles
and one had sleeping sickness. All three of
these men gave promise in the Junior years
of being record-breakers when the following
years rolled around, but Fate seemed to
smile cynically and say no.

In the spring of 1924 “Lowpocket” Strei-
bech started off the season with high hopes
of leading his team to many victories, but
this hope was soon smashed, because of a
sprained ankle, which when the doctor saw it
said he must keep off of it for the rest of
the year, and his hopes vanished.

The following year__“BoPeep"" Gracey |
laboredunder-a difficulty, that of sleeping
Sickness. Many are the managers who have
had to hurry to Bo Peep’s room and wake
him up, telling him that the hurdles were
next and he would have to hurry to get there
in timé to start, but he bore his burden well
and showed himself to be a born track star.

This past year “Red” Anderson also had
hard luck. Beginning’ the season with a
knee which gave him’a lot of trouble, he
ended it with a bad knee and a sprained
ankle. In the Clemson meet when he was
pole vaulting and his knee was giving him
trouble, he fell on his ankle in sucha way as
to tear the ligaments loose and thus keep
himself out of the State meet, which is the
high spot in any track man’s life.

LQ
WJ

| 4
PLAYING THE GAME
By Caldwell Withers

Class Series Begins as
Sophs Conquer Juniors
in Interesting Contest.

| Although the baseball season closed last
| Saturday with a defeat at the hands of Duke,

the Davidson Wildcats finished one of the
-Lmost. suscessfulyears of the’ sandlot pastime
| since Coach Younger came to the hill. The
team was better than last year’s in every de-

| partment of the game.

Mauldin Pitches Good Game as Mc-
Colgan, Grey and Harrison Hit
romero Hard

The first game of class baseball resulted
in a total route of the Junior nine at the
hands of the Sophs.
16, Juniors 5.

The score was Sophs| Erratic play and inconsistent hitting caused
ithe Wildcats to lose to the Blue Devile 8 to
The Junior team Showed their great need| 5. This defeat blasted the hopes of David-
of a pitcher, the Sophs hitting everything | son supporters for a championship team.
that Vaughn offered to all corners of the, Wake Forest probably has the best record of
field. Bad support on the part of the out-| any state team so far, but the Demon Dea-
field coupled with a home run by McColan cons have several other games to play. Da-
and hits by Harrison, Grey and others, gave | yidson did not meet the Baptists this year.
the Sophs an early, lead that steadily increas- al
ed as the game went on. Jug Mauldin, twirl-| Clyde Long broke into the lightlight in the
ing for the Sophs, had a nice day. He was’ Duke game by knocking a home run in the
hit heavily, but managed to keep the hits | fifth inning. Long finished the season with
well scattered and fanned men several times | a batting average of .412, a higher percent-
when there were others on the bases.

age than any other member of the squad. He

There were no spectacular plays made ex-|did not play as a regular until the last few

STORE PROFIT FUND

(Continued from page 1)

the store amount to a rather large sum of
money during the year, having come up to
almost a thousand dollars last year after all |
assessments had been_paid., At this: rate it |
would take only a few years for enough to!
accumulate to pay fos the swimming pool.
It might be noted in connection with this: that
Davidson had a lake given over to swimming |
a number of years. The lake was located |
near the fourth hole of the present golf
course.. It was drained about 1910 in order
that sewers might be run into the valley
which it occupied.

The new:nianagers of the store are work-|
ing hard to.make it bigger and better during !
the coming year. A complete tine of —ath- :
letic goods will be installed. The inside of
the store will be enameled before school next
fall. Acmail order service beyond that car-
ried on this year will also be installed.

Jim Pinkney—“What I say goes around
here.”

| stop and quick throw by Dick Grey of Hud- |

{have good teams and neither were badly af-|

cept for a one-hand catch of a line drive by
Allen at third for the Juniors and a pretty

games.

A mistake was made in this column last
week and we hasten to make the correction,
The game was cut short to seven innings by | We said that Roddey was the first Freshman
agreement. to play on a Davidson varsity team for the

The game’ scheduled, between the Seniors} last two years. It was called to our atten-
and the Freshmen for Friday was postponed | tion that Mac Lockhart played against Clem-
until this week, the Junior-Sooph game being’ son in tennis last spring.
the only one played so far.. With the elimi-| ‘ Fame oor
nation of the Juniors by the Sophs, thé fignt| » Will the stands on Richardson field accom-
for the championship remains between the | ™odate the crowd of fans who will flock to
Seniors, Sophs and the Freshmen.. The| sce the Davidson-Carolina game next fall?
Seniors should find very little difficulty in| But then, some day a concrete stadium will

gin’s hot grounder down-th the hot corner.

‘defeating the Freshmen, and the play-off | be erected that will take care of any num-

game between the Seniors and the Sophs | ber of fans who attend gridiron contests in
should prove a real contest. Both. classes| this part of the country.

fected by the new rule of making ineligible; Harry is the real batting star of the Wild-
any man who has played three innings of | cats. Playing in every “game. of the year,
varsity ball. | Vance went to bat 65 times, gathering a total
lof 26 hits, quite a number of which were
G ‘ ‘| 'for extra bases, to bring his percentage to
Prof—‘Is this word genetive or da-| ay, euanuetouradiiind ted:
tive?” |

“Genetive, sir.”

“How do you know?”

The Freshman tennis team returned late

| Summary of Games Shows

Davidson Made Good as
Baseball Season Closed

| Wildcats Win and Lose Eight Con-
tests—Vance, Alford, Woodham
and Laird Play Well

The first practice of the 1926 season was
called February 15th, with 18 men answering,
other candidates being out for basketball
and spring football, The number was soon
swelled to about 35. Seven letter men re-
‘ported together with promising material
from last year’s Fresh team, and a successful
season loomed ahead.

In the first game, an exhibition one, Da-
vidson lost to the. Quantico Marines, on
‘March 18th, by a score of 7-4.. The game
was featured by Captain Alford opening the
season with a homer, followed by Laird, both
veterans. Clean hits were numerous, Wild-
cat stock took considerable rise after this
game as the Marines had an exceptionally
strong team.

Oak Ridge Institute was defeated in the
next game, 19-13. The Wildcats forced three
pitchers out. Four home runs were made,
Alford getting two, and Laird and Woodham
one each, The game was featured by the
terrific slugging of both contestants.

A game with Dartmouth University was
rained out.

On April 2nd, Lenoir-Rhyne College was
defeated 6-5 in one of the best games of
the season. The visitors’ pitcher, Moose,
one of the best in the state, held Davidson
scoreless till the eighth inning, when David-
son went on a batting spree, netting six runs.
Both teams played good defensive games—
| only two errors chalked up against cvch nine.
| It was Easter Monday that the Wildcats
took their old foe, University of North Caro-
lina, in check, defeating them in Salisbury by
a 9-8 score. It was a thrilling game, Da-
| vidson playing a splendid brand of ball until
the ninth, when the Tar Heels made a des-
perate rally, but fell short one run.
| On April-8th the Salisbury League team
| defeated Davidson in an exhibition game by
ja 14-9 score. The game was featured only
| by the heavy hitting of both sides.

Speight Adams—“Then come out here

“It's dative then; I don’t want to start
on the campus and say ‘Ford.’”

an argument.”

| Saturday from a three-day trip, playing; In Greensboro, April 10th, Duke Univer-
| Carolina and Wake Forest Fresh to a tie and | sity ball club tracked the bases for 13 runs,
| winning from Oak Ridge. Roddey, Bradley, ! Davidson getting only 2. Many errors were
| Flowe and McGill made up the quartet rep-| made, the team putting out the poorest ex-

and Lee University the next day by a 11-2
score. The ’Cats scored two runs in the first
frame, but from then on were helpless be-
fore Maben’s twisters. V. M. I., whom Da-
vidson defeated, holds victories over Wash-
ington and Lee, and has the distinction of
being the best aggregation in Virginia. Da«
vidson swamped Roanoke College there 10-1
the following day. Roanoke was unable to
advance a runner beyond second until the
final inning, being check by the outstanding
pitching of Laird, who held the Maroons to
five scattered hits.

On May 5th Elon College was downed
here by a 12-11 score. An extra inning was
necessary to decide the winner, and Vance,
first batter, slammed out a four-bagger to
carry Davidson nearer the state champion-
ship.

But on May 8th, in Gastonia, Davidson
went down in defeat to Duke, in their sec-
ond game, 8-5, and thereby losing all chance
of an expected championship. Loose fielding
was noticeable. This last game of the sea-
son was the last college game for Captain
Alford, Vance, Laird, Huie, and F. Kugler.
Looking back upon the past season, it can
be seen that it has been a very successful one,
but erratic, the team having broken even
in number of games won and lost. The 1926
varsity was a great improvement over teams
of former years. Coach Younger seemed to
have developed several promising players,
and prospects for next year with a successful
team seem to be bright,

The following are the games played and
the scores:

(Continued on page 5)

“When days grow hot

As like as not

We wonder what

The Hottentot

| Takes off to make him cooler.”

|
| Unlike our sun-scorched
| brethren, you put on

clothes to keep you cool.

Smart New Accessories for
College Men

With wide sailor brims
weaves and styles.

STRAW HATS, $3.50

, assorted fancy bands, all

Famous for their beauty
white, collar attached styles.

BATES STREET SHIRTS, $3.00

and wearing qualities. A}]

NEW NECKTIES, $1,50

Included are all the smartest new designs and colors,
wide silk ties, splendid values.

LINEN KNICKERS, $4.50

77
8
HI
HJ
Hi
Ny
Hi
Hi
Hy
8
HJ
8
8
i.
H
Hj
H
|
8
8
ie
i
H
a
]
y
yj
8
H
8)
8)
H
Hj
Hq
|
H
Hy
H
a)
]
0
Hy
|
|
4)
a)
H
a
a
)
|

Correctly fashioned, in white material or plaids, all

MEN’S
| -. SECTION

pure Linen, preferred by all college men.

STREET
FLOOR

| resenting the Wildkittens.
'
ee
In the first game of the class baseball
|series, the Sophs smothéred the Juniors in
a batting bee 16 to 5. Maulding pitched
good ball for the winners, while McColgan
starred at the bat, getting a home run and
two other bingles. The Seniors and Fresh
played Tuesday, the winner of this game
meeting the secand-year men for the cham-
| Pionship.

7e think that Litch Huie deserves men-
| tion in this column, -Litch played scrub hall
|for three years, only to make the varsity
| basketball and baseball teams in his Senior
year. And he held down one of the forward
| Positions on the quintet in creditable fashion
and pitched good ball, too. Praise to Huie.

Just about now the various sport writers
|of the leading dailies of the state will pick
{their all-state college baseball nines. It
| would be mighty hard to pick a team of the

icollege stars of North Carolina. and leave
Vance and Woodham, of Davidson, off the
aggregation. Also Captain Alford and Laird
} would give many aspirants a fight for utility
| honors.
BATTING AVERAGES
Player AB Hits Ave.
Long ——=--.------= 17 7 412
Wance: 255225052 65 26 .400
Reait d pestose teen's: 58 19 327
Johnson 59 19 322
, Black 10 3 300
Alford 64 19 297
Woogham ...... 67 19, .284
J. Kugler --- 42 10- 238
Glenn 40 9 225
Dulin 52 9 173
Davis 22 3 136
F. Kugler _-.-_-._ 2 3-108
Hue eee 13 0 8 .000
Oden! a s225s2se25_ 5 0.000

| hibition of ball displayed during the season. |
| On their home: grounds April 16th the}
| Wildcats defeated. N. C. State 10-8 in the |
first of two successive games, The next day |
|in Gastonia the Wildcat batsmen: snowed |
State under to the tune of 11-2. The all-
round playing the team was excellent. |
Laird’s great pitching was a feature. |

In the first game of a South Carolina trip!
Davidson lost to Furman University, in|
Greenville, on April 21st by a \10-3 score. |
Davidson fought hard, but Furman seemed |
to get the breaks, which gave them the vic- |
tory. The second game was lost on the fol-
lowing day to Clemson College, who blank-
ed the ’Cats with 10 hits for 9 runs,

Starting into Virginia, the team met Guil-
ford College in Winston-Salem, which de-
feated them 11-2. This was a slow game
with Davidson sadly off form. Rabbs’ pitch-
ing for Guilford was excellent.

The first Virginia team encountered was
Virginia Military Institute, which Davidson
defeated 7-5 on April 28th. Laird pitched a
good game. The Cadets led until the first of
the eighth. Playing their second in Lexing-
ton, Va., the Wildcats lost to Washington

So, when the mercury
starts rolling up and the
perspiration starts rolling
down, we advise one of

these lightweight suits,

Linen, Palm Beach, Trop-
ical Worsteds and such
like, tailored to the acme
of perfection---that means

style, fit and good looks.

MELLON’S

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

A cee

MODERNLY EQUIPPED MORALLY CONDUCTED

“FRED’S” RECREATION HALL

BILLIARDS
| 205 West Trade Street (up stairs)

Meet your friends here and make this your club when in Charlotte

THE CHARLOTTE HOTEL

One of the Foor-Robinson System

Dining Room and Coffee Shop in connection. “A good
~ hotel in a good town’’

CHARLOTTE, N. C:

239 W. Trade St.

———

