THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 25, 1926

PLAYING THE GAME
With Withers

Severed Relations

Other Speculation
Duke Game today

Ever since the break between Davidson |
and Presbyterian College of South Carolina
in regards to athletic relations loomed to the
front the early part of the fall, this column |
has remained silent on the subject.» But due
to recent developments and startling state-
ments derogatory to the reputation of David-
son, we are forced to cease our concealed |
guffaws and break forth in unceasing laugh-
ter.

The Blue Stocking, the weekly publication |
of P. C., in one of its recent issues, quotes |
from the correspondence between Dr. W. W. |
Wood. chairman of Davidson’s faculty on |
athletics, and Dr. H. E. Sturgeon, faculty |
chairman of athletics of the South Carolina
institution, in reference to the severing of
relations between the two schools. Dr. Wood
stated that it was the feeling prevalent at |
Davidson that due to the “animosity” exist-
ing between the schools, that it seemed wise
for Davidson and P. S. not to meet next
year in football. He added, “We hope, how-
ever, that in a few years the two teams may
he able to get ‘together again.” t

Dr. Sturgeon, in reply, said in part, “We |
thought that the real trouble was that some
one on the outside, who had underestimated |
the strength of the P. C. team, had possibly |
lost something -on the game, for which we |

did not think either institution was respon- |
sible.” We wonder just who there could be |
“on ‘the outside” in a strong enough position |
to bring such pressure to bear upon Davidson |
that would cause her to take such steps? In|
the same letter the Presbyterian professor |
stated that it was their presumption that Da- |
vidson would not desire to complete the con- |
tract for two years involving the freshman |
teams of the schools. “This is agreeable to |
Presbyterian College.”
\

Dr. Wood answered this last item by re-
plying :, “As to freshman football contract,
you may rest assured that we would like to|
play this\game if you desire it, and you can
be sure that your team will receive the same |
‘fair treatment, ctc.’ And then, even then,
the oracle of public opinion down at Clinton
burst all bounds by saying that: “It is’ uni- |
versally believed in Clinton that the action
of Davidson was due entirely to fear that the
Wildcats would lose the 1927 encounter. . .
Presbyterian College students likewise resent
Davidson’s action in holding Presbyterian
College to her contract for today’s freshman
football game. . .”

We have heard numerous rumors to the
effect that P. C. will not appear on the sched-
ules of several South Carolina teams next
year. The University of South Carolina an-
nounced a tentative list of contests for the
1927 season recently and nowhere could be
found mention of P. C. The same applies to
Furman’s tentative schedule. Why keep on?

But in stopping this wrangle (we hope for
all time) we quote from a letter of Dr.
Woods, and claim the same feeling that is
exhibited in his letter: “In conclusion, let
me say that Davidson holds its sister institu-
tion in high regard and that I hope our var-
sity football teams will. be able to get to-
gether again in a few years.”

The game today closes the season for both
Davidson and Duke. The result has direct
bearing on the state championship race for
Davidson. Should the Wildcats lose they
would be definitely out of the running, that
is, unless State springs another surprise and
wallops Wake Forest. Last fall, the day be-
fore Carolina beat Davidson, the Wolfpack
from Raleigh furnished the most startling
upset of the entire season when they trounc-
ed the Deacons. Indications point to a much
different result today.

The Duke Blue Devils have developed
more than any other state team. And, too,
they have had the bad end of many a break
this fall, losing to both State and Carolina
by small margins and battling Columbia Uni-
versity to a standstill for three periods. Sev-
eral of Davidson’s varsity stars watched the
Devils. run wild last Friday against Wofford.
The Nicotines took the meat from the Ter-
riers by a larger score than Davidson was
able to negotiate at Spartanburg last Sep-
tember. The season sings its swan song and

A Noise From Clinton

_of the standings of the various teams as far

| has played.

| pionship.

Today’s Games to
Decide Flag Race

The football games in North Carolina this
past weck had little or no bearing on the
race for state championship. Davidson and
Carolina were idle, resting up and getting
into shape for their Thanksgiving Day tus-
sles; Wake Forest overwhelmed Guilford in
a game of no importance in the figuring up

as ‘their respective claims on the state title
go; State lost to South Carolina in a rather
close scrap; Duke downed Wofford by a de-
cisive score. This last victory of Duke’s has
caused her stock to take a considerable jump
in all predictions concerning the Davidson- |
Duke fracas scheduled for Thanksgiving
Day.

It is still.to this game and to the Wake |
Forest-State tussle that all fans are looking
as the deciding factors in the exciting finish
of the hotly contested race for the title. Da-
vidson and Wake Forest are now tied in the
lead for this honor. Should either of these
teams lose one of these games, the other will
very probably be granted the decision. Thus
these games are very important to all parties
concerned. And judging from the other up-
sets that have occurred this season, there is’
a possibility that all dope may take a tumble.
At least no one seems to be at all confident

| of victory, but each team realizes that it will

take all they have to win.

The standing of the other ‘teams is the
same ast last week. Carolina stands next to
Davidson and Wake Forest. in third place,
having lost to two of the “Big Five” teams.
In the next place is State with only one vic-
tory among the leading five colleges. The
last place goes to Duke, whose team has lost
to all four of the big state teams which it
Their last chance of redeeming
themselves will come Thanksgiving in the
game with Davidson, the crucial game for
the Wildcats in their hopes for the cham-

DAVIDSON TO MEET DUKE

to bring the matter a little closer home, let
us remember that Duke lost to Carolina not
because of an inferior team, but on account
of a blocked punt which, with the aid of
Old Lady Luck, gave the victory to the Tar
Heels,

Many outstanding individuals go to make
up the Duke eleven. There is Thompson, a
big 195 pound tackle. This man’s perforrh-
ance ‘this yéar has been out of the ordinary.
And then there are Grigg and Kelly on the
flanks. Grigg has been chosen for the all-
state team for the past three years. He for-
merly played tackle but was shifted to end
because of his evident ability as a flankman.

Coach James De Hart uses the Warner
system and the gamblers to date seem to

favor the Duke-Warner-DeHart trio.

" The Wildcats are in good shape, since
beating Carolina. For a number of their
players the fracas to be-staged Thanksgiving
will be their last shot at football. The Wild-
cats are out to win from Duke.

The probable line-up for both teams is
listed below:

Duke. Position. Davidson. |
Religerern coc oe Ly 9 ala ara Pinckney |
Thompson ~------- ee es ees Lincoln |
POUCR! Cesk nocucnce (Cy cease Mitchell |
Hintetecsuacsa Genter” 22222: McConnell
Banssee isc n3 oo RG ______-_____ Boggs
Weatherby ~-_-_-___ 1 SG Bile ieee Ritchie
Cotte eet iy 15g Deni eee! Bohannon
IWieavericcs saecos © O By asiiee Sappenfield
Hollingsworth --.. LH ____________ Wells
Muttle: ooo ese se. IRD sos ck oe So ae Grey
Bolicht2s2 22255 22s HB eens cea Leggette

Mooresville Ice Cream Company

Incorporated
MANUFACTURERS OF

“DE LUXE”

BRICK AND FANCY CREAMS AND DeLUXE CUPS

Mooresville, N. C.

the all-state teams appear.

CALL US FOR SPECIAL ORDERS

Wildkittens End Season
With Exciting Victory
Over Blue Hose Fresh

Matthews, Bohard and Hammett
Show Good Form in 32-13 -
Win Over Presbyterians

The Davidson Wildkittens defeated the
Presbyterian College freshmen last Saturday,
32-13, on Richardson Field.

Matthews was the star of the game, scor-
ing four of the five touchdowns made by Da-
vidson. Mills, P. C. quarterback, and Gallo-
way, halfback, were outstanding players.
Mills was responsible for all their first downs
through forward passes.

Making one first down after the other,
Brohard and Matthews smashed through the
line on off-tackle plays. Kugler turned in a |
neat game at the quarter position for David-
son, and Hammett, substituting for Kugler in
the last half, played a good game.

Hunt, Carson and McConnell played well
in the line, breaking through the opposition
time after time. Reynolds, halfback, return-
ed one kick-off for 30 yards and made other
nice gains.

P. C. had a line much lighter than David-
son, but either team seemed to gain at will,
especially during the first half.

This game was the final encounter for the
season, making a total of two games won
and three lost. The Kittens won from Fur-
man and P. C. and lost to State, Duke, and
Blue Ridge.

Freshman letter men have not yet been an-
nounced but their names will probably be
made public next week by Coach “Monk”
Mattox.

Several members of the freshman gteam
this year have shown promise of winting
places on the varsity next fall.

NOTED JOURNALIST

(Continued from page 1)
has been only partially fulfilled in this isue
of The Chameleon.

The magazine is well-balanced in its five-
fold division of short story, play, essay, verse
and book review.

The two short stories are workmanlike in
structure and may be criticised only for
amateurishnes, inadequacy in details. One
is a quietly satiric picture of college life; the
-other is a horror story. The tone of the first
is more carefully sustained than that of the
second, The horror story is more imitative
and suffers in comparison with its models.

The play, “Beyond,” is a philosophical dis-
cussion between two college men in regard to
an age-old problem. It is frankly closet
drama, possibly a little top-heavy with quota-
tion. The atmosphere is well sustained
throughout.

The essays are laudable attempts at the
very difficult form of light informal essay.
“My Style-ish Prejudices” is a rambling but
thoroughly charming.discussion of matters of |
style, a little lavish perhaps in the use of |
quotations. “Superlatives” is a well-con-
structed comment on an incident observed
during a trip through the West. “Sleep”

Wildcat Cafe

THE BEST PLACE
AND FOOD

GIVE US A TRIAL

ICE CREAM

Davidson Harriers

Meet Devils Today

Trailing in the wake of the football team
the Davidson harriers will journey to Duke
Thanksgiving Day for a cross-country meet
with Duke, which is to be run between the
halves of the Davidson-Duke football game.

The team did not show up so good in
their first meet. This was partly due to the
absence of Captain Penn, and as a result lost
to State runners by a large score. However,
in their last meet with Wofford they came to
their own and defeated that team by almost
as large a score as they were defeated by
State. Not much is known of Duke’s strength
but the team realizes that they will face al-
most as strong a team as they did in State.
Both Duke and State have been beaten by
Carolina.

In the time trials Friday the best time of
the season was made. However, Sloop and
Webb did not run because of sickness. It is
hoped that they will be in shape by Thursday.
Outside of this the team is in good shape.

suffers through compresion. The essay is
good so far as it goes but needs more de-
velopment.

The verse in the magazine is varied in
form, and, on the whole, pleasing in execu-
tion. The best of it is in the two transla-
tions: one from the German; one from the
Spanish. The group of sonnets shows com-
mand of. the sonnet form. “Lucita” is a
good little dramatic monologue in irregular
meter. The other verse is pretty but undis-
tinguished—possibly here amateurishness is
most evident. :

The book reviews are timely and interest-
ing. They are better possibly in selection of
books for review than in the reviews them-
selves,

On the whole the impresion produced by

1

the Chameleon may be summarized thus: a
professional note in appearance ahd arrange-
ment; excellence in intention ; partial success
in execution; great promise for the future.

ATHLETIC AUTHORITIES

(Continued from page 1)

also had a call from Mr. J. Max Hendrix,
prominent Davidson alumnus of Greensboro,
regarding the game. He said that he would
be interested insyich a game if it. was de-
cided upon, but that it was his personal opin-
ion that such a game would be in opposition
to the policy of Davidson College as regards
athletics,

Coach Younger had nothing to say when
questioned about the game.’ He said that the
final word in making up the schedule was not
his, and would’ not commit himself. His
“stand is to act as those in charge decide is
best and right. Although not first hand,
Mr. Lawrence Wilkinson, promoter of ath-
letic contests in Charlotte and member of the
Athletic Council from the Alumni Associa-
tion, has been quoted as being opposed to the
proposed game.

Dr. Sentelle told a reporter of The David-
' sonian that personally he was against the
contest in the main from the viewpoint of
the effect it would have on the team and the
student body as a whole. In brief he said,
“E do not feel that the strain and stress that
the team would undergo and the consequent
distraction the entire student body would be
liable to, justifies a post-season game. The
schedules of Southern colleges are much
longer than those of the Northern schools,
| and any further promulgation would be sure
| to bring undesirable results.

Several ‘cities in the state have been sug-
gested for this proposed game, but so far
Greensboro and Charlotte seem to be’ the
chief contenders. At present the prospects
for it are rather dim with Davidson faculty
| and prominent alumni opposed. The opinion
| of the student body, although rather hard to
ascertain, seem to be against any post-season
game.

STATE FORENSIC COUNCIL

(Continued from page 1)
among the colleges of North Carolina on a
higher plane and do much to promote the
oratorical affairs of the colleges themselves.
It will also make plans whereby the debating
schedule of its members will be strengthened.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

The Most Convenient For

Davidson Men

+

Lance Quality Products
Delivered same day made. All dealers

LANCE PACKING COMPANY

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

(——

| Seite: Ice

GOOD
ICE CREAM

Statesville, N. C,

——_)

Cream Co.

Union Theological Seminary

RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Introducing to the readers of

The Davidsonian

Rev. Edward Mack, D. D.,Ph.D., LL.D. (A.B,A.
M. and LL.D. Davidson College) Professor of He-
brew and the Interpretation of the Old Testament.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

