THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 13, 1926 5

Sambo—“Ah wants a cake ob soap.”

FIRST SECTION OF STADIUM | Sena ad oto doe
COMPLETE IN EVERY RESPECT. »=°"

Sambo (slowly)—“Well, ah wants a
| ERNEST BOHANNON

First Deb-“Who was that man I seen
you with last night?”

Second Deb—"“That wasn’t
that was Prince Nicholas.”

Pat Harmon says his name should have
been “Lollypop” because his papa used
to lick him every day.

no man,

cake ob soap to wash ma head wif.”
Clerk (readily)—“Den yo’ wants Ivory
soap.”

Marriage is that period in a man’s life
when he trades a discontented life for a
discontented wife. ®

The arrival of aie aan annual Davidson College
Day brings a day of pleasure for all the stu-
dents, a day of drills, and speeches, and stunt
night, which is all surpassed by the interest
in the completion of the new stadium, erected
as a memorial to the energetic efforts of Dr.
L. Richardson by his sons, Messrs. H. S.
and L. Richardson, of Greensboro. This in-
terest, which has increased by leaps and
bounds, will be brought to a climax with the
exercises this morning.

The work on the concrete stadium began
in the last part of August. Due to the lack
of time, work has been rushed and night
shifts have even been required at times. Z. |
F. Foard has been in charge of the work.

The exterior of the stadium has been en- |
tirely completed and is exceedingly attrac- |
tive. The 24 tiers of seats are of solid ce-
ment work, covered over with a white coat- |
ing of the same material. On each tier the |
wooden seats are fastened to the cement by ,
bolts. _The paint on the wooden seats was
just applied during the past week. Two flag
poles are fastened at the top of the stadium,
just above the main entrance. Both spec-
tators and football teams will enter through
this entrance. The students will, as usual,
enter through the side gate behind the base-

Many a true statement has been ut-
tered through false teeth.

ball diamond. The flag poles are so arranged
that the pennants of Davidson and the visit-
ing team may be raised with little difficulty.
The stadium will seat about 1,600 people.

The interior of the stadium consists of a
large hallway, through which the spectators
enter the stand. From this hallway, two
dressing rooms extend on either side. One
of these rooms will be for the home team, |
while the other is spacious enough to accom- |
modate any team that meets the Wildcats in
a contest on the home field. A lady’s rest
room is situated in the new stadium just to
the right of the main hallway. Work on the
installation of the plumbing fixtures in the
dressing room is progressing rapidly so that
the interior may be completed as soon as |
possible.

The public exercises at the new stadium
will begin at 11:45 on Saturday morning. |
The visitors will be seated on the southern |
end of the stadium; the band and battalion)
will occupy the northern end reserved for |
them during the remainder of the exercises
ait my res Habs, DURSere: , | Statistics of the Davidson-Hampden-Sid- |
an Me ae S, eee Ce, ney game played last Saturday in Charlotte |
son odbHORE- OF lie held ahd new stadt will | reveal that.the Virginia Tiger outclassed the |

PhALRaHe FORMA Coranentatbn: The iesars, | Davidson Wildcat in practically every de
Rishardéon wit ae be present bat Mr. | partment of the game. Their ground gained |

Hendri il i aeled f tati | on passes almost doubled the amount gained |
patie Sea Tol aR palesoey cork pet ea A aeaabdae ard hat iby the Wildcats. Through the line they

sent by them. President Martin, who will | | gained 141 yards to the Wildcats’ 24. Dick
‘preside at the exercises, will officially receive

both the field and the stadium for Davidson
College. The closing part of these exercises |

i ona _ The following is a summary of the game:
se nia dedication prayer by Dr. C. M. | First downs—Hampden-Sidney, 11; Da-|

| vidson, 4. |
Yards through line — Hampden-Sidney,
(141; Davidson, 24.
| Yards around end—Hampden-Sidney, 31;
| Davidson, 52.
| Yards on passes—Hampden-Sidney,
| Davidson, 67.
Yards on returned kicks—Hampden-Sid-
| ney, 105; Davidson, 100.

ais : Average distance punts—Hampden-Sidney, |
“We will bridle our tongues if we are doers | 32. Davidson, 40.

of God’s Word. It is oftentimes hard to be) passes completed—Hampden-Sidney, 8 in
successful’ in such a struggle through great 19; Davidson, 4 in 15.
faith in God and by asking Him, through |
prayer, for wisdom and guidance.”
In conclusion, Dr. Lacy, using a quotation |
from Carlyle, said: “Conviction, be it ever | Davidson, 10.
so. excellent, is worthless until it converts | Fumbles—Hampden-Sidney, 6; Davidson, |
itself into conduct.”: “The will to go forward | 1.
and build as we have heard is the crying need |
of Christianity today.”
At the Monday morning service, Dr. Lacy |
took as his text, “Why seek ye me? Know) 3.
ye not that I must be about my Father's | Kick-offs—Hampden-Sidney,
business?” Stating that, just as Jesus was/| son, 1.
about His Father’s business at an early age,! Passes attempted—Davidson, 15; Hamp-
so should each one be about God's business | den-Sidney, 10.
in developing his mind, body, soul and social| Average distance gained on passes—Hamp-
‘graces. | den-Sidney, 15 yards; Davidson, 17 yards.
“Young college men,” he declared, ‘should |
be careful for their physical being, remem- |
bering that their body is the temp!e of God. |
A reckless life will wreck the possibilities of

At Forty

“At Forty” the housewife in some sections
of Europe wears a black bonnet to signify
the end of her youth. A quaint custom —you
say—but it usually signifies a fact. Heavy
tasks, indoors and out, have made her old—
at forty.

‘Hampden-Sidney Proves |
Supremacy by Statistics

Of all the uses of electricity in America, the
most important are those which release the
woman from physical drudgery. Electricity
carries water, washes clothes, cleans carpets,
cooks the family’s food—better and quicker
than could be done by hand.

Tigers Outclass Wildcats in Prac- |
tically All Phases of Game

Upon great generators
which send out current to
light the homes and carry
the burdens of millions, you
will find the G-E monogram.
Upon industrial motors, on
electric railway trains—
wherever quality and un-
failing performance are first
essentials—the G-E mono-
gram will be found.

A trip to town or an hour’s rest in the after-
noon pays a woman dividends in good health
“at forty years.” And whati is youth but that?

Men and women who have had the benefit
of college training and college life have
learned to place the proper value upon rest
and recreation. They appreciate the relief
afforded by electricity,

| Grey outbooted the Tiger punter, his average
being 40 yards to the Virginia man’s 32.

A-series of G-E advertise-
ments showing what elec-
tricity is doing in many
fields will be sent on request.
Ask for booklet GEK-1.

LIFE WORK MEETINGS

(Continued from page 1)
is tempted of God, for He has given divine |
strength and passions implanted by the Devil
in the human heart. No man can get rid of |
temptation by yielding to it, for such a course |
leads to sin and death.”

95-2500

_ GENERAL ELECTRIC

GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY, SCHENECTADY, NEW Yo WF

AT EFIRD’S NOW

120;

Passes intercepted—by Hampden-Sidney, |
! 3; by.Davidson, 0.

Penalties — Hampden-Sidney, 80 yards; |

Fumbles recovered—Davidson, Here’s an oxford for
| den-Sidney, 0.

Drop-kicks attempted — ie Sidney,

2; Hamp- |

A New
Oxford

for

the man who values

his feet.
It ‘“Crawford’’

oxford, made of Scotch ~

3;  David-

is a

grain leather, exactly

Young Men
$8.50 Pr.

as illustrated

PUBLIC INITIATION

(Continued from page 1)

any youth. Even if he reforms later he must
pay the price for disregarding his heritage of
health.” Dr. Lacy urged against the devot-
ing of all energies toward scholastic achieve-
ment at the expense of one’s health.

“God has given man a finer thing than a
body! That is the human mind, which lifts
man above the other creations. To be of any
vatue this "mind must be trained at the right
time and in the proper manner. A man who
passes up this training will be worthless.
Every true and faithful Christian must dedi-
cate his mind and body to the service and
glory of God.” |

The last man on the list is Rev. W. A. Mc- |
Tlwaine, of the class of 1915, founder of The}
Davidsonian and of the Mimir Society, local |
honor society, taken into Phi Beta, Kappa.
The four students elected are all of the |
Senior class and have led their class in schol- |
arship for the last three years. They are W. |
A. Christian, Mobile, Ala.; H. M. Austin, |
taredo; ‘Tex:;"W-~T: Covington, Raeford, *
N. C.; and W. S. Woods, of China.
There has been no speaker chosen as yet
for the public ceremony, although the com-
mittee is in correspondence with several men |
of note. |

MEN’S
SECTION

STREET
FLOOR

“Quality With Price”
