THeDAVI

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XIII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 11, 1926

No. 18

J. Stitt Wilson Starts
New Religious Thought |
In Series of Lectures.

Noted Sociologist Inaugurates Re-
vival of Religious Thought |
Among Davidson Students |

SPEAKS FIVE TIMES

Christianity Acquires New Meaning
Under Masterful Treatment

The Hon J. Stitt Wilson, former mayor
of Berkley, California, came to Davidson
last Saturday morning for a series of five
lectures. These lectures dealt largely with
the social aspect of the Christian life. Mr.
Wilson is a layman and an excedingly force-
ful speaker. He was deeply appreciated at
Davidson and gave Davidson men new lines |
of thought. Few, if any of the students had
ever before realized the full significance of
the Christian’s social attitude.

At the Y. M. C. A, vesper service on Sun- |
day evening, in the last of a series of lec-
tures before the students, Hon. J. Stitt Wil-
son, of Berkley, Cal., gave three of his seven |
suggestions on the technique of spiritual life. |
The Technique of Spiritual Life was the
subject of his talk and the three suggestions
as he stated are are (1) Pivotal Promise; |
(2) Prayer, and (3) Devotion to Humanity. |

In his introductory remarks Mr. Wilson
said, “All civilization is technique. Charac-
ter is technique.” Technique is essential to
the playing of any athletic game and the!
technique of study is necessary for the effi- |
cient acquition of knowledge.

One of the}
greatest troubles with colleges is that the |
professors do not tell their students how to
study, he said. It is one of the things the
Protestant churches are short on. They say, |
“Come to Jesus,” but do not say how. It is
baffling to try to describe spiritual experi-
ences or to define God but there are a few)
explicit, concrete, practical and helpful sug-
gestions on how to develop spiritual life. The
first of these the speaker stated as Pivotal |
Promise.

(Continued on page 7)

Davidson Songsters Win
Ovation at Big Concert

Glee Club Loudly Encored in Initial
Performance in Shearer Hall

Making a hit in its first and only per-!
formance before a home audience, the Da-
vidson College Glee Club played before a
crowded house last Friday evening in Shear-
er Hall. The entire program was highly en-
joyable, being especially suitable for hearers
composed almost entirely of college men.

Probably the biggest hit of the night was
the appearance of the jazz orchestra. This
group of musicians was greeted with re-
sounding applause on both occasions that it
appeared. The orchestrations played were
new, airy, and catchy, showing plainly that
Davidson has a real group of syncopators.

Although the numbers given by the club as
a whole received much applause and praise,
the three songs sung by J. H. Caligan no
doubt were one of the high spots of the per-
formance. Caligan, after having given two
classical pieces, in responding to an encore, |
sang “The White Water Lily,” a composi-
tion for which he wrote both the music and |
the lyric. The accompaniment for all these
was played by P. B. Fry.

The opening number on the program was |
“College Ties,’ ’sung by the entire club. The |
songsters showed plainly the careful training |
and instruction that they had received under |
the direction of the club officers and Mrs.
Geral Baker, of Charlotte, who- kas- assisted /
in the direction of these men this year.

\have a girl down.

JUNIOR SPEAKING
PROGRAM

Below is published the complete pro-
gram of Junior Speaking, as tentative-
ly announced by the special committee
in charge of arrangements:

April 1—V. P. I.-Davidson track meet.

Dramatic and Glee Club  perform-

ances.
April 2—Davidson-W. & L. tennis

match.
Davidson - Lenoir Rhyne — baseball

game.

Junior Oratoricals.

April 3—Honorary Fraternity Com-
petitive Initiations.

Freshman baseball game.

Special dinner for Junors and guests.

Entertainment in gymnasium.

April 4+—Special church services, with
Junior choir.
Open-air Vespers, led by Queens
College delegation.
April 5—-Davidson-Carolina game at
Salisbury.

Davidson-Pittsburgh Debate.

Have you invited your girl? If
not, do so at once—he who hesi-
tates is lost—she might come up as
the guest of some other fellow. Get
the spirit!

Enthusiasm Mounts With
AnnouncementofProgram
For Junior Festivities

Y. M. C. A. Will Offer its Reception
Room for Entertainment of Girls

With the announcement by the Y. M. C. A.
that a room is being prepared in the Philan-
thropic Literary Society hall to be used by
the students in entertaining their girls, plans
for Junior Speaking are considered practi-
cally complete. —

The various committees in charge of that
event report that everything is being done to
make the affair one of the most enjoyable
and successful in the history of the college.
Special committees under Bill Christian and

| Harry Goodykoontz are working up interest

among the boys and persuading them to not
only remain for the fun but to be sure and
A meeting of the Junior
Class was held Monday and at a vote taken
it was found that a large majority of the
class was sure of staying and this means the
spirit of co-operation is in the class and
success is assured.

The program is complete in every detail.
Starting off Thursday with a track meet
with V. P. I. and Gle eClub and Dramatic
Club performances, there is hardly an hour
left without some kind of entertainment tak-
ing place. On Friday there is a tennis match
with W. & L., a baseball game, and ending up
with the Junior Oratorical contests. There
will be seven of the best orators in the Junior
Class competing, and this part of the pro-
gram is being especially stressed. Saturday
is the big day. A unique entertainment is
being arranged between the various honorary
fraternities in the shape of competitve initia-
tions. Saturday night an entertainment royal
will be given. The gym will be fittingly
decorated and fitted up for one of the most
resplendent and novel entertainments that has
ever been atempted here before. The Junior
Class is holding the facts about the nature of
this event secret and a real surprise is in
store for the guests. Sunday, special services
will be held at the church. That afternoon

an open air vesper service will be given with |

girls from Queens and Juniors officiating.

Another fact that was overlooked was that |

special music will be given at church by
members of the Junser- Class.

Monday there will be another baseball’

| TO CONDUCT SP

ECIAL SERVICES

Dr. Dunbar H. Ogden, widely known Presbyterian minister, who has been selected by
the Y. M. C. A. to conduct the special student revival services, which
are to be held here during February.

‘Dr. Dunbar H. Ogden, of Mobile, Chosen

To Conduct Y.M. C. A. Revival Services

Basketball Team
To Make Tour of
Old North State

The Wildcat basketball team will
its first extended trip on February 15th,
playing many of the leading teams of North
and South on this tour. Man-
ager Garrison arranged a very gom-
plete schedule, the first group of teams to
be met being throughout South Carolina, re-
turning to Davidson for a day and then leay-
ing on a trip through North Carolina, Coach
Monk Younger has not definitely decided yet
which of the varsity squad he will take on
the trips nor how many.

Carolina
has

<The first game of the road trip will be
with Clemson. The Tigers will be played
at Clemson on the night of the 15th. From
there the Wildcats will go to Greenville,
where they will play Furman on the follow-
ing night, the 16th of February. From
Greenville the Wildcats will journey to Spar-
tanburg, where Wofford will attempt to ob-
tain revenge for the defeat from Davidson
earlier in the season.

After the South Carolina trip, the squad!

will return to Davidson for a day of rest
before continuing their travels. A game
with N. C. State College has been scheduled
for the night of February 20th, at Raleigh,
and the Wildcat quintet will go there for the
next game. They will also spend Sunday at
N. C. State, and from there they will travel
to Durham, where a game is scheduled with

final game of the trip will be played at
Chapel Hill, where Davidson will meet the
| Southern—-inter-collegiatechampions, Uni-
“versity of North Carolina.

The other two games remaining on the

Under the direction of T. C. Barr, the | game, probably the varsity. Monday night\ schedule will be played at Davidson. Fur-
concert orchestra rendered thre classical) there will be another entertainment, the de-|man will be played in the alumni gymnasium

pieces.

The orghestra, although playing .in | tails of- which are not ready to announce yet.|on the night of the-thirteenth. The season

excellent form, missed the presence of J. S.| Tuesday will be a lax day but various forms| will be formally ended when Citadel is met

(Continued on page 7)

3

(Continued on page 7)

| here FeFbruary 27th.

make

Duke on Monday night, February 22nd. The |

Special Services to Begin on
February 21st

| INTEREST IS KEEN

| Dr. Ogden Holds Honorary Degrees
From Davidson College and
Southwestern University

The regular spring services sponsored by
the Y. M. C. A. will be held beginning Feb-
ruary 21st and continuing through February
24th. These services will be conducted by
Dr. Dunbar H. Ogden, pastor of the Goy-
ernment Strect Presbyterian Church of Mo-
hile, Ala. This series of meetings will be
in the nature of a life work conference and
pdomise to be of great benefit to the mem-
bers of the student body, especially those
who have not decided upon their life work.

Dr. Ogden received both his college and
seminary training at Southwestern Univer-
sity. He has held important pastorates in
Knoxville, Atlanta, Louisville and Mobile.
He is very prominent in the college and uni-
versity circles of the South, having spoken in
some 60 Southern colleges. He has always
been identified with young people’s and stu-
dent’s work and has achieved marked success
in these lines as well as in the pastorate. He
was honored by Davidson some time ago
with the degree of Doctor of Divinity and
has visited the college on various occasions.
His coming to conduct the spring services is
looked forward to with keen interest.

During his stay at Davidson he will preach
at the Sunday morning church service and
also at the “Y" vespers on that day. During
the week he will speak each morning at
chapel and again after supper each night.
The day will be given. over to ‘interviews
when all men have an opportunity to talk
their problems over with him.

Dr. Henderson Irwin, '06, of Eureka,
N. C, was recently married to
Eloise Farrior, Rev. W. O. Cone per-
forming the service.

Miss |

Guilford Quintet Bows
As Wildcats Open Fast
Attack in First Period

Guilford Starts Off Slowly But
Shows Good in Form in
Second Half

ANDERSON IS STAR

Laird and Anderson Show Unusual
Ability to Locate Basket

The Wildcats continued their rather pre-
tentious season so far this year on the cage
court by defeating the Guilford College
Quakers here Saturday night in a snappy,
well-played and entertaining game of basket-
ball, the score being at the conclusion, 34 to
23.

With Anderson leading the offensive attack
the Wildcats forged ahead of the
Quakers in the initial minutes of play. The
score was first knotted, 2-2, but with a field
goal and a foul shot Anderson made it 5-3
for the Wildeats. For the next few minutes
the local team had easy going and had in-
creased the score to 13-3 before the Quakers
hit the loop for a field goal counter. But it
was the Wildeats’ advantage all through the
first period, the score at the end of half time
bein 21 to 9,

Not content with their display of basket-
ball art, the Quakers began the second period
with a spirit characteristic of the Wildcat
fight, and made a rapid attack that necessi-
tated a time out by Captain Laird to solve
the situation. the
margin, and early in the second stage the

soon

The Quakers lessened

score was 23-16,

From that time on, however, the red jer-
seymen opened up, with interspersed shots by
the Guilford cagesters. The boys from near
» Greensboro had the closing side of the argu-

ment, looping two field goals after the Wild-
cats’ scoring for the night had ended.

Accurate shooting by Anderson, with ex-

pert backing up by Captain Laird, worked a

good combination that’ accounted for a total

of 29 of the 34 Davidson points. Anderson
(Continued on, page 8)

Wildcats To Face Great
Dartmouth Nine in March

Davidson to Play Seventeen Games
With Best South-Atlantic Teams

Manager W. T. (Bill) Spencer announced
the baseball schedule for the Davidson var-
sity team Monday night with 12 games
scheduled for the Wildcats between March
26th and May 8th.

Opening the season as usual with’ two
games with the Oak Ridge Cadets, the Da-
vidson team will swing into action carly when
it meets Dartmouth College on the 30th of
March on Richardson Field.

The engagement of Dartmouth on its an-
nual Southern tour brings to Davidson one
of the greatest football players in the history
of the gridiron game in the person of Ober-
lander, the famous quarter of the New
Hampshire cleven. Oberlander is one of the
mainstays of the Dartmouth pitching staff,
and Manager Spencer reports that every en-
deavor will be made to have him pitch while
at Davidson.

Coach Younger announced that probably
he would have his pitching staff out for

early practice next week under “Dutch”
Hengeveld, former Davidson player and
coach.

The schedule includes games with all of
the “big five’ of North Carolina with the
exception of Wake Forest, the team in addi-

tion meeting Washington and Lee, Virginia -

Military Academy and Roanoke College on
a tour of Virginia, which begins on April
27th at Guilford College.
This is the second trip on the Davidson
schedule, the team meeting Furman Univer-
(Continued on page 3)
