THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 30, 1926

SPORTOGRAPHS
By Caldwell Withers

The splendid showing of ‘the Davidson
backfield in the Wofford contest last Satur-
day was encouraging to the Red and Black
Supporters. A great deal of improvement
was noticed in the playing of the entire line.
The first line of defense was conspicuously
weak in the Elon game.

That a tough road lay ahead of the Wild-
cats next Saturday, was attested by the way
Presbyterian College trounced Clemson Sat-
urday. The Blue Stockings invaded the lair
of the Tigers and helped them celebrate in
real fashion their Home-coming Day. The
only encouraging element about the battle for
Davidson is that Clemson's team is unusually
weak this fall.

Hampden-Sidney, an opponent that David-
son meets in Charlotte later in the season,
surprised even its most ardent supporters
when they tied the University of Virginia.
The result of the game was one of the most
Startling up-sets of the week-end. Last year
Davidson was slated to win their contest
with the Virginia Presbyterians, but the game
resulted in a heart-rending 6 to 6 tie.

Two other foes of the Wildcats marshaled
their forces against each other when Caro-
lina and Wake Forest met at the Deacon's
stronghold last Saturday. The Baptists shot
the Tar Heel defense to pieces in the first
period and pushed over two touchdowns and
one extra point. The. flashy Riley, playing
Wake Forest's flanks, grabbed a
batch of passes and was mainly responsible
for the downfall of the University boys for
the third consecutive time. :

one of

Davitieon Backfield Sweeps Through Wofford
as Leggette, Grey and McConnell Show Form
. ; wins

Teams of State to |

|
Meet Good Outfits PLAY AMID DUST

“5 ; ene|
With the football:season well under way, |

comparison of the schedules of the North |

Carolina teams reveals many hard contests |

on tap for the gridiron warriors of the state. |
Practically every team in the territory has | : MRED ACTS :

a complete schedule and will meet teams of | Playing on a field that was at times

|-varying strength throughout the South. Duke | almost obscured from VieteCn account of

| the dust, the Davidson Wildcats last Satur-

University travels north the middle of Oc- |
tober to take on Columbia University in one | day defeated the Wofford Terriers at Spar-

Black Scores in Less Than Two

crpededier yt Bluestockings to

Tackle Wildcats

One of the hardest games of the year for
the Wildcats will be the game Saturday at
Rock Hill with the Presbyterian College of
S. C. Their 14 to 0 victory over Clemson
last Saturday puts them in line for the cham-
pionship of South Carolina. Their line is
said to be the lightest and fastest charging
line in that state.

The outstanding players on the P. C. team

Lawton, Lever, DeHihns and
Wright Show Best Form for
South Carolina Methodists

of the most outstanding — inter-sectionat
| matches of the year. Duke has yet to be
tried as they had a walk-away against Guil-
| ford last week.

| Carolina, in addition to several state teams,
‘takes on the Universities of Tennessee, South
Carolina, Virginia, and Maryland.
plays three South Carolina teams, in Clem-
son, Furman, and South Carolina, Davidson

| sticks to North Carolina for only six of its

ten games, playing V. M. I., Hampden-Sid-
ney, Furman, and Wofford, out of the ‘state.
The Wildcats defeated the South Carolina
Methodists last ‘Saturday. :

The other schedules run almost true to

Last year when Wake Forest beat Caro-
lina, ‘many of the papers of the state pro- |
claimed them state champions. The Baptists’ |
hopes were given a rude jolt some weeks |
later when Davidson pulled a startling num- |
ber of tricks out of the lucky bag and tied |
the Deacons 7 to 7. The season is yet too
young to make any predictions as to the
mythical champions of the state. |

Leggette, of Davidson, and Spurlock, of
Lenoir, are the leading scoring backs of the
State atthe end of the second week of the
1926 season. Both backs have scored three
touchdowns. Griggs and Cathey, both of
Duke, Riley from Wake Forest, and Wells,
of Davidson, are next in line with 12 pbints
apiece.

|

iene |

The college authorities have promised ade |
ditional tennis courts to be built behind Watts |
dormitory. This extra athletic equipment is |
most sorely needed at Davidson. Davidson |
is perhaps better known outside of the state |
through the powers of the net stars who have
graced its courts lately than in any other |
branch of sports. Wrestling is the only |
possible exception to this statement. |

Last year the wrestlers, under the able |

direction of Captain Weems, won most of | October 2—Presbyterian College, at Rock | Make Davidson's total score 14. .

their matches during” its barnstorming tour
through Virginia and Maryland.’ The grap-
plers havé elected C.°G. Davis as, manager
for the coming season, and Davis has ar-
ranged matches: with a number of schools,
including West Point.

Prospects for a great Freshman team this
year are brighter each week. Coach Mattox
will be able to put a first-class line on the
field that will outweigh the varsity from
tackle to tackle.

You'll always find a well-
equipped U-Drive-It Ford
at the right price at

Henderson’s Filling Station

DAVIDSON, N..C.

The schedules follow:

Carolina

October 2—University of
Knoxville.

October 9—University of South Carolina,
at Chapel Hill.

October 16—Duke University, at Chapel
Hill,

October 23—University of Maryland, at
| College Park, Maryland.
October 30—North
| Chapel Hill.
| November 6—V..M. I., at Richmond.
| November 13—Dgvidson, at Davidson.
November 23—University of Virginia, at
| Charlottesville.

teams.

Tennessee, at

Carolina State, at

Duke

October 2—Richmond University, at Rich-
mond.

October 9—Elon, at Durham.

October 16—Carolina, at Chapel Hill.

October 23—Columbia University, at New
York.

October 30—Wake Forest, at Goldsboro.

November 11—North Carolina State, at
Raleigh.

November 20—Wofford, at Durham.

| November 25—Davidson, at Durham.

Davidson

| Hill.

October 9—Guilford, at Davidson.
October 14—North Carolina State, at
| Raleigh.
| October 23—Wake Forest, at Charlotte.
| October 30—V. M. I., at Lexington.
| November 6—Hampden-Sidney, at Char-
| lotte.
| November 13—University of North Caro-
| lina, at Davidson.
| November 25—-Duke University, at Dur-
| ham,

Elon
October 2—Guilford, at Elon.
|
October 23—Georgetown University, <
Washington.

October 30—Hampden-Sidney, at Elon.

November 6—Wake Forest, at
Forest.

November 13—Lynchburg, at Elon.

|

ory and Henry.
State
October 2—Furman, at Raleigh.
October 9—Clemson College, at Clemson
October. 14—Davidson,- at Raleigh.

Wildcat Cafe

WE HAVE THAT
HOME COOKING

October 23—V. M. I., at Richmond.

October 30—University of North Carolina
at Chapel Hill.

November 6—Lenoir-Rhyne, at Raleigh.

lina, at Columbia.

State |

Wake

November 20—Emory and Henry, at Em-

November 11—Duke University at Raleigh.
November 20—University of South Caro-

| tanburg 24 to 6. The proteges of Monk
| Younger succeeded in scoring in every period
| and had the upper hand at every stage of the
| game.

The greater reserve strength of the Pres-
byterians proved the undoing of the Meth-
odists. Davidson started the game with six of
its regulars on the side-lines, and’ this outfit
composed of substitutes and old-timers scored
a touchdown and the point-after touchdown

in less than two minutes after play had com-
menced. :

After Kirkley, Wofford half, had fumbled
one of Dick Grey’s kicks, and Davidson had
recovered, the--team, under the guidance of

‘form in that they stick closely to the state | Ed Wilson, drove the remaining 35 yards to

| the goal line. Harrison led the attack in this
drive, making a sensational run of about 20
yards and placing Davidson in a_ scoring
position. Black rammed the line for the first
| blood and later Bohannon kicked the extra
point.

| Shortly after the initial scoring, on the
second punt of an exchange, the oval bounced
_wildly and touched Grey on the leg with
| Wofford recovering on Davidson’s 18-yard
| line. Wright made two short gains through
the line and, after Wofford had suffered a
| 15-yard penalty, De Hihns, diminutive quar-
|ter for the Terriers, snatched a hand-over
| head pass tossed by Wright and ran to the
| four-yard line. Kirkley and Fleming made
| three yards, but on the next play Davidson
| Was off-side. In two more plays Wright took
| the ball over, crossing the Red and Black
| line by two inches. The entire Davidson
| line smashed through to break up Wright's
lattempted kick for extra point.

A 60-yard punt by Grey put the Wildcats
|in another scoring position. After Wofford
| had punted, Kel made a scintillating 20-yard
| run through a broken field. Then Dick Grey
| took the oval to the 12-yard line, where
| after four plays, Leggette took the ball over
| and Bohannon booted a perfect placement to
| The third period opened with a series of
| flashy, sprints by the entire Davidson back-
field. The drive was culminated with a beau-
tiful 26-yard dash by Sam Blaek’ which put
the ball in a sc6ring position. The Wofford
line tightened but Grey dropped back and sent
|a well-directed dropkick through the bars to

run up the score to 17 to 6,

(Continued on page 5)

|
|
\

October 23—Davidson, at Charlotte.
October 30—Duke University, at Golds-

November 6—Elon, at Wake Forest.
| November. 13—William and Mary,
| Norfolk.
November 20—Guilford, at Wake Forest.
November 25—North Carolina State, at
Raleigh. dy

at

$1.25
“Collegiate Stationery”

Place your order today for
your personal name and ad-
dress stationery printed, also

with college seal.

TWO-FOLD SIZE:
large sheets, 50 envelopes

100

NOTE SIZE: 200 note
sheets, 100 envelopes

Stock is heavy 24-lb. Colle- F
giate Bond. Prompt service
and your satisfaction guaran-
teed.

STUDENTS’ STORE

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

are: Griffith, playing right tackle and men- '
tioned last year as an all-S. I. A. A. tackle;
Kirven, at center; Stamps and Hogrefe, in
the backfield. Griffith, the captain, Kirven
and Stamps caused the Wildcats no little
trouble last year. Hogrefe is a Sophomore
and is the speed demon of the P. C. back-
field. At a track meet last year he took first
place in the hundred-yard dash, making the
distance in 10 seconds. Last year the Wild-
cats found it difficult to win over P. C., hav-
ing to amass all of their strength to defeat
them by a 13 to 0 score.
P. C. emerged from her game with Clem-
son without any injuries and will have her
full strength, while the Wildcats will be
minus the services of Captain Wells, Sook
Boggs, and Dan Leftwich. Wells and Boggs
are not eligible and Leftwich is out with a
sprained ankle. Neither team has met with
defeat this year and the Blue Stockings of
Presbyterian College are out to avenge the
defeat they suffered at the hands of the
Wildcats last year.

The prospective line-up follows:

Local High School

Plans for Season

The Davidson High School: team, under
the capable direction of A. S. Farnsworth
and J. A. King; hasbeen going through some
‘strenuous work-outs since the opening of
school. The team is outweighed several
pounds to the man by most of their oppo-
nents, but the boys as well as their coaches
are working hard, and expect to put outa
team that will be a credit to their school.

In the game last Friday between the Ches-
ter, S. C., High School and the Davidson
High School, the local boys came out on the
short end of a 20 to 0 score, but not because
they did not fight. They did their best from
the firs€’to the last, but were not able to
hold their heavier opponents. They were
‘outweighed by at least 20 to 25 pounds per
man.

The game which was scheduled to be play-
ed here tomorrow with the Concord High
School has been cancelled. The next game is
with Troutman, at Barium Springs, next
Friday.’ The line-up is as follows:

MeGonnelliicuccsecstesccektesecekot Soke Cc
MC OLEW ns iasdavel | Seneeee eet RG
McCCOnnellp=seasaworuascncusconesacsces LG
Wil8ONi cis euewnasceccoesososeoes ee RT
MROLFENCG, o2euonceuncesee soso yes lL Ses IL AR
IeGWrance: cstevcoscuseeeaceodees sells RE
IM@chacho: s2edece2s oe ees ee lcee le casos LE
McGonnell).),2D;. sssses csc sol eo sled QB
nC fo UC ae eerpt R aah cg aes, Oh gael ge he gtay Ove iets gage RH
IMGOhey seas soeee Soe cseee ceo se ces oo. LH
Williamson—{==-3--==-sass-=ssa=c-=-2-= FB

The Bible is the world’s best seller,
9,069,120 having been sold during the

' 1 past year.

es
EAT AT THE

%

ASTORLUNCH

SERVICE

Davidson. Pos. Pres. Col.
Bohannon ~-------- }) D atest coals Stevens
Ritchievetesionsos0s Peconke Witherspoon -
Mitchell oes cen eee MC as Neighbors
McConnell _----- Gentetsscceces sus Kirven
JmeGtey"wcssccccsse RGfee eee Barnwell
incolnicss oo ee Sa2 Repose ees Griffith
Pitikney, 22220222453 RD oe eo Ce ese Timmons
Sappenfield _._-____ (0): [ee ee Stamps
RiGrey esse socks Revo e saver ce Hogrefe
HarrisOnncssoes. sls 16] 5 eppeiaere meno Owens
Leggette ~---__-___ BBessssosssee= Wilson

DR. MARTIN DISCUSSES

(Continued from page 1)

“The most pressing need today of David-
son along the line of buildings is the com-
pletion of the Chambers building. There can
be no other improvements, as long as there
is no present lack of class room and labora-
tory space. There is no prospect of a new
dormitory. The policy of the college in the
future will be to bring the faculty and equip-
ment up to the present number of students.
The mark set is one professor to every fifteen
men. Adequate housing of the biology and
physics departments is imperative.”

In closing, Dr. Martin stated that he knew
nothing of an extension of the new road
(between Chambers. building and the tennis
courts) through the campus to Main street.
He added that it was the general plan to
build a parallel road from the Armory to
Richardson Field, even if one of the Bar-
racks had to go. As a final reply, he reiter-
ated his statement about the vital necessity
of an adequate building fund.

Only two marriage licenses have been
issued in the past four years in Owyhee
County, Idaho, which has a population
of 4,694 people and a area larger. than
Rhode Island, Delaware and Connecticut.

“The home is not the house but a

THE BEST OF COOK-

ING
Charlotte, N.C.

- PEPPERMINT
FLAVOR

Used by
People of Refinement—
Because Wrigley’s, besides
being a delightful confection,
affords beneficial exercise to

the teeth and clears them of
food particles.

Also ‘it aids digestion. iz

woman.”—Old Japanese adage.

3 After Every Meal

@

WHOLESALE

‘When You Need Candy
See Us

26 28 S. Cellege St.
‘CHARLOTTE, N. C

OPEN November 25—Wake Forest, at Raleigh.
i Wake Forest
| Monday Morning October 2—Wofford, ‘at Salisbury.
ee aN  12t0o2A. M. October 9—Furman University, at Green-
af cies: i ville. - ;
Bt © DAVIDSON, N. C. October 16—Presbyterian College, | at
ay WiC a ee Asheville

