THEDAVI

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON |

Vol. XIII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSO

N, N. C.. MARCH 4

, 1926

Wildcats Win First Six

Matches as State Team RETUR

NS FROM

SOUTHERN TOUR

Bows to Fighting Squad

Davidson Takes 20-3 Win From
North Carolina State

ALMOST SHUTOUT
Crinkley Wins on Fall—Lambe Ac-

counts for States Points by
Time Decision

Winning the first six straight matches, the
Davidson wrestling team swept the North
Carolina State squad off its feet here Friday
night, the final score being Davidson 20,
State 3. State came back in the final match
to win by time in an extra period as Lambe,
football star on the Wolfpack line, overpow-
ered Maulden, for Davidson.

The Wildcats started off slowly, with Spry,
of State, forcing Joe Frierson to an extra
period battle, Davidson finally winning on
time by two minutes, 38 seconds advantage.
However, the Davidson squad began to gath-
er momentum after Barrington had secured a
five minutes, 19 second advantage over Ginn
(State) in an extra period. Davis took the
next bout in quick order With six minutes ad-
vantage. Captain Cox (Davidson( continued
the Davidson onslaught with another time ad- ,
vantage. |

Then Crinkley, after battling through the
first ten minutes, on even terms, came back
in the extra period to throw Harrell, of
State, in a few seconds over a minute’s time.
Harrell wavered the right to re-enter. Har-
ry Vance continued the winning with a time

a

1

decision over Trevatham.

The Davidson spectators were calling for
a shut-out as Maulden entered the mat, but
Lambe, much more powerfully built, took
the match in the extra period.

The meet was the last for the Davidson
team before leaving for the United States
Naval Academy, where it will meet the Navy
Plebes. Duke University has decided to dis-
band its team and so will not meet Davidson.

The following are the results of the’ Lae
matches: Frierson (Davidson) won on| °Mr. Bob,” a rip-roaring comedy in two |
time, 2:38, in extra period, from Spry | acts, was presented by “The Queens Players” |
(State); Barrington (Davidson) in Shearer Hall on Monday night before a|

Oiieens Dramatic Club : |
Presents Amusing Play |
to Davidson Students

“Mr. Bob” Given Here Monday
Night by Cream of Feminine
Talent

won on

timey35:19, in extra period from Ginn
(State); Davis (Davidson) won on time,
(Continued on pige 2)

well-filled house of enthusiastic townspeople |
and admiring students. The lack of men for
the male characters in the play proved no|
jhandicap. Miss Ethel Braswell, playing the |

~~ | part of the butler ; Miss Ann Fayssoux John- |
son, as Phillip Royson; and Miss Noel Walk- |

e °
Discussion Groups Are {er, as Robert Brown, found much favor in}
to Meet on Each Floor ‘ eyes of the audience from the marked |

degree of perfection with which they im- |
Dr. McConn ill C I personated masculine characters. Mr. |
of Sees ANGE wn | Brown’s mustache was really becoming and |

‘in keeping with the fad so prevalent among |
The student discussion groups, which are YOUN& men of today.
held each year under the supervision of the Her keen appreciation of dramatic art, and |
Y. M. C. A,, will be renewed next Tuesday | love for “Mr. Shakespeare,” mingled with}
night. The students as a whole take a great- | case, freedom, and skill of acting, were the |
er part in this phase of the Y. M. C, A. factors that won continued outbursts of ap- |
work at Davidson than any other and hereto- Plause for Miss Dolly Moore, playing the
fore a great interest has ben show in them. ! Part of Patty, the maid.
This year sociological and economical The entire cast proved to be well suited |
problems will be discussed, such as those {to their parts and the perfection with which
propounded by the Hon. J. Stitt Wilson in

the play was carricd out added to its at- |

his recent visit to the campus. | tractiveness, and was a determining factor |
The groups will meet on each floor of the in its big success. The summary briefly is as |
dormitories under the supervision of a leader | follows: :
who will be appointed by the Y. M. C. A.
secretary. The time of meeting, which has! fond of cats, very much to the disgust of |
heretofore been Wednesday night, has been Katherine, her niece, and Philip, her nephew. |
changed to Tuesday night at 9:00 o'clock.| She plans to have an extra room set aside |
The discussions will be limited in duration | for the accommodation of her cats and!
in order that no one will be forced to be secretly sends for an architect to look over |
absent on account of his studies. \the work. Katherine also expects her girl
The leaders of the groups will be instructed | friend, Marion, whom she calls “Bob” by
by Dr. J. M. McConnell, who is a fine stu-! way of a pet name, and who Phillip believes
dent of economic and ethical problems. In/to be an admirer of Katherine's.
his instruction -he will use the book “Chris-| - Phillip -plans to entertain “Mr. Bob” for
tianity and Economic Problems,” by Kirby | the sake of his cousin Katherine, and natural-
Page. Practically all of the group leaders ily mistakes the supposed architect, who has
have had experience before and at least one jarrived in the meantime, for this admirer of
has made a rather wide study of these prob-|Katherine’s. The servants who have been
lems himself. From all indications these dis-|instructed to keep the architect's visit ai
cussions should be the best ever held at j Secret, think that _Mr. Brown, the clerk, is

Davidson. it (Continued on page 5)

Miss Rebecca Luke, an old maid, is very |

TEX SIGNS AGAIN

Announcement Saturday of the sign-
ing of Tex Tilson for another year ag,
assistant football coach brought joy to
the ‘followers of the Wildcats. For
several months it has been doubtful
whether Davidson would have the
services of Coach Tilson for another
year, but the athletic authorities here
have kept calmly at work, today an-
nouncing that both Younger and Til-
will be back for another year.
Much of the success of the Wildcat
football teams since the beginning of
the Younger-Tilson regime at David-
son has been attributed to the great
work of Tilson in developing the Da-
vidson linesmen. Of the four games
which Davidson has lost in the last
two football season only one came as
result Davidson's. line—being run
through. The other two resulted from.
passes or drop kicks of the opposing
teams.

Seniors Make High
Record First Term

Fifty-four of the 95 members of the Senior
clds3"of Davidson College made above 90
per™ecent on their general average for the
first semester, the class average for the
entire 95 students being 90.52 per cent, ac-
cording to statistics announced Saturday by
F. W. Hengeveld, registrar.

Of the 54 students averaging 90 per cent
or more, 15 of them made a percentage of
95 or more; eight were above 97, and three
were above 98, which is an unprecedented
record for Senior classes at Davidson Col-
lege. ’

Ninety-five per cent must’ be made to be
accorded the honor of being on the honor
roll, and of the 15 Seniors winning this
honor it is interesting to note that six states
are represented in that group. Seven were
from North Carolina, three from Georgia,
two from Alabama, with one each from
South Carolina, Tennessee and Louisiana.

The students making the honor roll and
their averages were: R. W. Graves, of Rome,

(Continued on page 8)

son

Davidson College Glee Club Back Home
Following Whirlwind Tour of Southland

Bulldogs take Scrappy
Contest by Single Goal

Davidson Plays Great Ball—Leads
Through Most of Game—Laird
and Huie’s Last

Forty Wildcat Musicians Score in
Leading Southern Cities

SING OVER RADIO

Davidson Alumni and Presbyterians
Entertain Members of Club
After Concerts

The Citadel basketball team defeated the
Davidson quint here Saturday night in the
final game of the season by the small margin
of two points, 39-37, Both teams were play-

The Davidson Glee Club returned to the
Hill yesterday morning after an extended
tour, lasting for eight day, through North
Carolina, South Carolina and Georgia. The

ing championship ball, and the going was hot
and heavy throughout.

The Wildcats played their best game of
the year and led the Bulldogs throughout the
contest up to the final minutes, when the
South Carolina team made a brilliant spurt
and were never passed by the Davidson team.

The Wildcats drew first blood when Cap-
tain Flake Laird, playing his last game, sunk
a beautiful shot from outside the 17-foot
line. From then on, the scorjng was about
even and at the half, the Wildcats were
leading by a two-point margin, 21-19. After
the half, Davidson came back a little strong-
er and soon had the score 30-25.

At this point, Teddy Weeks, star forward
for Citadel, went on a scoring spree and sank
three field goals in Succession. From then on
the Davidson team fought madly to catch the
Bulldogs. Tom Anderson, by his quick shots
from under the basket, brought the Wildcats
to within two points of Citadel's lead.

Teddy Weeks, for Citadel, was the high-
point man of the evening, and his brilliant
playing was especially noticeable throughout
the game. He had 16 points to his credit
when the final shot was rung. Captain Laird,
for Davidson, was high point man for his
team in his last appearance with a Davidson
basketball team, with 13 points. Anderson
and Douglas were not far behind with 11 and
10 points respectively.. They also. put out a
neat brand of ‘basketball. Winberg also
showed up well for Citadel, garnering eight
points for his quota of the evening’s score.

Davidson (37) Position. Citadel (39)
Laird (13) --------- RRs sse2 Weeks (16)
Huie (4) ---------- jl sarees Douglas: (10)

(Continued on page 5)

Glee Club presented six concerts, Spartan-
burg; Gainesville, Ga., at Brenau; Atlanta,
Agnes Scott College at Decatur, Ga.; Green-
ville, S. C., and Charlotte. Approximately
40 members were taken on the trip, including
the symphony orchestra, the Davidsonians,
the jazz orchestra, and the members of the
cast of a comedy skit written by C. F, Smith.

The first concert was given at Spartanburg,
on the night of the 23rd. The crowd was
somewhat depleted due to the fact that he
girls from Converse College were quaran-
tined by an influenza epidemic. The Spar-
tanburg Herald, the morning paper of Spar-
tanburg, the next morning in its article cov-
ering the concert said that the organization
was the best glee club that had appeared in
Spartanburg this season.

From Spartanburg the club went further
southward to Gainesville, Ga., the site
Brenau College. Here the Wildcat song-
birds gave a concert on the night of the 24th.
After the concert, the members were’ enter-
tained by the members of the Brenau Glee
Club. On the following day, some of the
members of the club attended the meetings of
the Southern Students International Rela-
tions Club conference. Thursday was spent
on the campus at Brenau.

On Friday, the 26th, the songsters jour-
neyed to Atlanta, where that night they gave

{@ concert at the Atlanta Woman's Ciub. The
| boys were entertained while in Atlanta by the
Davidson alumni living in Atlanta. Several
sight-seeing tours and entertainments were
| siven the members while staying in Atlanta.
On Saturday, the club gave a concert in
Decatur, Ga., at Agnes Scott College. After

(Continued on page 5)

of
