THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 21, 1926

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association
“FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15 \
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Office of Davidson as Mail Matter ot

Entered at the Post
: the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor hy 7:00 p m. Monday Articles re
erived from an unknown source will not be published

HARLLEE. BRANCH. JR....-.------......... Editor-in-Chief.
VERNON S. BROYLES..--.---.--.-.------ Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

W. L. LINGLE istic Managing Editor
BOYCE MARTI t Managing Editor
F. C. WITHERS. -Athletic Editor
RUFORD’ WEBB. ssoviate Editor
H. 1. SHELBY___ .-Alumni Fditor
D. M. CALHOU -Exchange Editor
H. L. SHELBY Humorous Editor
D. M. CALHOU -Alumni Editor
W. S. GORDON ignment Editor
Pp. F. JONES... ...Feature Editor
Tale ONES sieces scene - Inquiring Reporter
BUSINESS STAFF
FE, L. DOUGLASS....:.__.._..-Assistant Rusiness Manager

M_P. CRAWFORD.
JULIAN LAKE...
J. A. McALPINE......-..-.--
W. -L. ALBRIGHT.....-2-2.2-

R. S. ABERNETHY____-.--------.

.-Assistant Business Manager
-Assistant Business Manager
...Subscription Manager
_ Circulation Manager
....-Service Manager

Reporters’ Club

C. C. MURCHISON C. R. LAKE
W. T. COVINGTON R. R, KANE

W. T. DAVIS
JOHN MORIARTY
A. N. BROWN

TOHN GWIN
T. T. JONES
R. H. McILWAINE

. L. ELY J. P. McKNIGH"’

L. WADSWORTH “A.M SPARROW
rYREE DILLARD B. WILSON

J. R. WEAVER B. F. McQUEEN

EDITORIAL |

ALUMNI HOMECOMING

For the first time in a long and eventful
history, Davidson College is to: celebrate a
real \lumni_ Homecoming Day! The alum-
ni homecoming idea is as old as the college
itself, but efforts to fittingly “observe an
alumni day in the past have failed, due prin-
cipally to indifference on the part of alumni
and college officials alike.

But, this year, with an Alumni Secretary
bending every effort toward arranging a
suitable program, and alumni from all parts
of the country expressing a desire to be on
hand, the success of the celebration seems
assured, Arrangements have been comp-
leted for an alumni celebration on November
13th, that will not only eclipse any similar
affair ever held on the Davidson’ campus,
but will in all probability be a high mark on
the social and athletic calendars of the year.

We note with especial interest an an-

“nouncement which has gone out from our

alumni secretary stating that on this oc-

casion the new Richardson athletic field and

magnificent-conerete stadium will be dedi-

cated. It is fitting that on the first real

alumni homecoming day at Davidson, the
students

day than he was 25 years ago, has now a
clearer perception of the relation of reli-
gion to life and social service is the most
striking conclusion to be drawn from the
nation-wide .survey of compulsory chapel,
conducted by the National Student Federa-

‘tion of America during the past few weeks.

The investigation, the result of which em-
braced every state but two in the country,
included the sending of questionnaires to
college presidents, and the undergraduate

editors of the nation, as well as to a repre- ‘|

sentative group of ministers who appear
frequently before college assemblies of va-
rious types. The following quotations have
been taken at random from a subsequent re-
port issued by H. C. Roce, Princeton, ’28,
hairman of the Federation committee on

‘compulsory chapel:

“The investigation on the subject of com-
pulsory chapel has been conducted through-
out in an entirely impartial spirit, which has
aimed rather to discover the facts of the
situation than to foster a “revolt of youth”
or to-assume an ultra-conservative stand.
With this end in view, questionnaires were
distributed to the number of 600 each to the
college presidents and to the undergraduate
editors of the country, in addition to 25
which were sent to representative college
preachers. The relatively large response re-
cived from the college presidents seems to
ind‘cate, when compared with the scattering
student replies, that the agitation among un-
dergraduates on the subject of compulsory
chapel is not so widespread as one might
have been led to believe.”

Approximately 316 replies were received
from college presidents with the following
results: for compulsory Sunday chapel, 136;
against, 176; for compulsory week-day
chapel, 220; against, 90.

The second question, regarding the chief
benefits deemed to be secured from compul-
sory chapel, elicited in general several rea-
sons in support of compulsory chapel from
those who approved it. The two most im-
portant of these were the religious and in-
spirational value of the service, and the con-
tribution which it made to college unity,
with 103 votes for each. ’

The responses to the query “What do you
believe to be the greatest change in the reli-
gious intersts of the present students as
compared with those of 1900?” were highly
enlightening in view of the fundamentalist-
modernist controversy, and the widespread
charge that college students are becoming
more immoral and atheistic. A plurality of

7

Who’s Who

at Davidson

JOSEPH HOWARD McCONNELL
Davidson, N. C.
President of the Senior Class
Like Bohannon,
smiling countenance
this column ~ several weeks
ago, Joe McConnell hails
from the village of Davidson,
N. C., and his transition from
the ranks of the “boys about
town” to those of the college
students did not entail a very
lengthy journey. In fact, two
hundred paces were sufficient

whose
graced

to carry him from his home in the village to a
place’ within the portals of the college, and Joe
stepped off these two hundred paces in rather
short order back in the fall of 10923.

Three years have passed since his arrival on
the campus.as a freshman, and as a senior, he
now looks back on a record of notable achieve-
ment and popular success. His ability, his gen-
iality, and his loyalty have won for him a place
of honor and esteem among his fellow-classmen
as well as the other students on the campus. His
activities indicate his versatility, and his achieve-
ments denote his prowess.

A glance at the following offices will convince
even the most dubious that Joe is a student par

excellence and a man beloved of his fellows. Here

| are some of the honors and offices that he has

the replies declared that the basis of college.. |

religion had sifted from: individualism and
devotion to social service. Sixty-two felt

that the attitude of the students was more _
questioning and independent that ever be-—

fore, that they expressed their thoughts wore
freely and had less patience with the doc-
trine or fine points of dogma. The bulk of
the remainder declared in the ratio of three
to one-cither that no change Was~apparent,
or else there was a tendency for thf better

won: membership and presidency of the Pan-
Hellenic council, varsity football, membership in
“D" club, the vice-presidency of the Junior Class,
presidency of the Senior Class, the vice-presi-
dency of the Athletic Association; membership on
the Court of Control, scrub baseball, and fresh-
man football and baseball. He is also a member
of the Kappa Alpha (s) social fraternity.

WALTER OLIN NISBET
Charlotte; N. C.
Vice-President Student Body

“Mutt” Nisbet is only a
Junior, and yet he has made
a record of which many a
Senior might well be envious.
His work on the athletic field,
and his leadership in the ac-
tivities of both his class and
the student body as a whole
have been spectacular. As a
result he has won both prom-
inence and prestige on the campus.

Coming to Davidson from Charlotte in the fall
of 1924, Nisbet immediately captured a place on
the great little Wildkitten football squad, and, as
a reward for his work, he was awarded a fresh-
man numeral at the close of the season. In the
spring of his freshman year, he captured honors
on the cinder path, where he won new laurels in

the 440 yard dash.

He was elected to the vice-presidency of his
class in the spring of his freshman year, and when
30b McMillan, the president, failed to return at
the beginning of the sophomore term, “Mutt” was
unanimously elevated to the presidency. At the
helm of a sophomore class during. one of the most
trying yearssin the history of Davidson, when
sophs and freshmen were continually tearing at
each other’s throats, “Mutt” showed both execu-
tive ability and exceptional tact.

Nisbet was awarded a letter for his work in the
backfield of the varsity eleven during his sopho-
more year, and again this year is showing much
aptitude ‘in carrying the pigskin. His work
against Guilford this year was the feature of the
Wildcats’ performance.

“Mutt” was elected vice-president of the stu-
dent body last spring in the annual elections, win-
ning by a neat margin, and is this year serving
his second term on the student council. He is a
member of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity.

Inquiring Reporter

Collegiate Chatter

Is the fraternity situation better with the chap-
ters off the campus, or did the old system have
advantages ? :

Bill Green: I do not think the present situation
is as good as the former one. Davidson is too
small a school to have its chapters off the hill.

Lynn McClain: The situation is worse
than it was, because the fraternity men lose the
contact with the non-fraternity men, and David-
son has been noted for this friendship.

now

John MacRae: The condition now is not so
good, because for a school of this size, the demo-
cratic spirit is lost, although it is better for the
convenience of the frat men now,

sill Covington: It is good for all concerned
now, for the organizations that were formerly
cramped for space can expand with the new.

appreciation of ts—and-frentty, shontd
be publicly extended to H. S. and L. Rich-
ardson, of Greensboro, through whose gen-
crosity, the college has been enabled to take
such long forward strides in the matter of
better athletic equipment. The generosity
of these two benefactors of the college has
been an inspiration to both students and
alumni, and their gifts have greatly en-
hanced the value of the service that our col-
lege has been enabled to render.

Through special permission Armistice
Day, Davidson College Day, and Homecom-
ing Day will all three be combined this year,
and as a result of this combination, the
celebration should be the greatest in the his-
tory of the institution.

Two years ago six thousand fans gathered
at Richardson Field and sat spellbqund as

they watched a mighty Tar Heekeleven bat- ©

tle against eleven dauntless Wildcats for
sixty scoreless minutes, and then drop-kick
its way to a victory in the last few seconds
of play. On November 13th, of this year
ten thousand sport followers and alumni will
gather in the new concrete stadium on
Richardson Field to watch the Wildcats gain
revenge for that disheartening defeat.

The Carolina-Davidson game will, of it-
self, attract thousands of alumni, who have
followed with interest the continued success
of the Red and Black eleven this season.

Likewise, the dedicatory exercises, to be °|

led by Dr. A. A. McGeachy, of Charlotte;
the military review; the glee club perform-
ance; and the general alumni celebration
will draw thousands of other graduates back
to the campus to linger for-another day be-
neath the elms and oaks that line the old
familiar walks. All in all, it will be a great
day for everybody. Alumni are urged to
attend!

A CHAPEL SURVEY |
That the undergradute, far from being
more atheistic or insensible, to religion to-

among undergraduates.

The inquiries to the college editors drew a
less representative response, and included
only forty-two replies. It was clear from
these-answers that the principle of compul-
sory chapel prevailed in most of the small
colleges, and either had never prevailed or
had been abandoned in by far the majority
of the institutions. The-replies showed a
marked tendency to conform to the exist-
ing practice “in the particular college, there
being only four cases of revolt against the
present regime among all the answers. Six-
teen of the editors thought compulsory
chapel good, while twenty were opposed.
In the larger group, compulsory chapel was
in force in but four instances. ©The remain-
ing reports felt that compulsion was ‘not the
vital question but rather the provision of an
interesting program.

The value of the chapel assembly for the
sake of college unity was as clearly appre-
ciated among the student editors as among
the college executives, but there was a
wider variety*’of reasons for and against
compulsion among the undergraduates. The
inadequacy of proper seating space was la-
mented by one of the editors, while others
felt that the inattention and disrespect which
they considered concomitants of compulsory
chapel tended to destroy the religious faith
of the undergraduate. The theory was al-
so expressed that chapel still remains the
best way to begin the day.

The twenty ministers who replied were at
variance as to whether there was any notice-
able difference between an audience com-
pelled to listen, and one where attendance
was voluntary. Ten realized no difference,
while six were of the opinion that compul!
sion bred hostility. Nine favored compul-
sion, five were opposed, and six thought that
its advisability depended largely on the tra-
dition, size and situation of the particular
college.

locations in the old fraternity halls; also, it is a
step toward better fraternity system.

Jay Hall: This situation will in time ruin the
feeling of democracy that Davidson has been
famous for, but it is an advantage in that it brings
the men in the fraternity themselves closer to-
gether,

Mac King: Having houses off the campus
doesn’t make any great difference, in fact it’s
better that way, but living off the campus takes
away the men, prominent in student activities,
that should be living in the dormitories, depriving
them of the advantage of mixing with the other
men.

John McKnight; It is better for fraternities to
be on the campus because it gives the college
more unity and more centralization. But if they
were to move back on the campus now, there
would be no place for them to build, and the old
halls certainly were not adequate.

Hebe McIlwaine: The fraternities would be
better on the hill, for their being off causes a
split in feeling between the fraternity and non-
fraternity men,

Paul Mauldin: Both have their advantages and
disadvantages, for there is more friendship be-
tween fraternities when on, and there is more of
a brotherly feeling in the chapter itself when
off.

Frank Wyche: The fraternities would be in a
better situation if they were on the hill, for then
they are more in the college life, there is more
congeniality, and there is a better setting for
house parties, v

Brownie McQueen: The fraternities are better
off the campus, because they have more room—
they have house mothers, which is a distinct ad-
vantage—and the chance to board together creates
more friendship in the fraternity itself.

A headline in a Charlotte paper tells us
that “Intuition Helps Women to Drive.”
Perhaps its intuition that lets a woman
know that the man driver will take to the
ditch to allow her to pass.

SEEING YELLOW

The appearaice of The Faun, would-be proto-
type of H. L. Mencken’s American Mercury, on
the University of North Carolina campus several
weeks ago has resulted in considerable contro-
versy at Chapel Hill, judging from the open-
forum articles that have poured into the editorial
offices of the Tar Heel since its publication. The
The Tar Heel has openely branded The Faun as
another “yellow journal,” and has ridiculed the
efforts of its editors to stir up dissension gn the
Carolina campus. “It was simply another. effort
to imitate old man Mencken, but what a puny,
feeble effort,” remarks the editor of the Tar Heel,
who goes on to say that the “yellow journal” was
merely the “house organ of a politically ambitious
social fraternity,” which is bending every effort

toward maintaining a control over all Carolina

publications.

HIGHER LEARNING

A skyscraper “Temple of Learning,” projecting
350 feet above the street level is the central fea-
ture of a tentative $5,000,000 building program for
Temple University of Philadelphia. The sky-
scraper will be a memorial to the late Russell H.
Conwell, -apostle of Success, author of Acres of
Daimonds, and founding father of Temple Univer-
sity. The new building will compete in the skyline
with office. buildings, town hall, factory stacks,
and great compress elevators. At the very top
of the immense structure, a large lantern will be
placed to symbolize the “beacon light of knowl-
edge.” The architecture and size of the structure
will make it unique among the colleges and uni-
versities of the nation. .

HE WHO LAUGHS LAST

We note with added interest, now that the Pres-
byterian College of South Carolina has succeeded
in administering a drubbing to the Demon Dea-
cons of Wake Forest, a clipping that appeared in
the October 9th issue of the Blue Stocking, stu-
dent publicaiton-at the Presbyterian College. It
appeared under the words “/uck, That's All,” and
read as follows:

“Speaking of luck, aren’t those Demon Deacons
the luckiest bunch of shieks that ever wore jer-
seys? Why, if Carolina had had half the luck
that the Deacons enjoyed last Saturday, the Bap-
tists would be mourning over a defeat now, in-
stead of rejoicing over a victory.” The clipping
was taken from the student paper of the Univer-
sity of North Carolina, and appeared nearly three
weeks ago, it’s true. But, we wonder now if the
Wake Forest supporters. consider the Deacons to
have been lucky in the overwhelming defeat they
suffered at the hands of P. C. last Saturday, or
whether P. C. supporters will feel that Wake For-
est was “lucky” to have suffered as lightly as she
did. :

v
