_ THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVE

cm paay9

IBER 25, 1926

Sees oe
=

~ es

aes

Town News

Mrs. White of Graham is visiting her
brother, Mr. E. J. Erwin.

Miss Nancy Grey, daughter of Dr. W.
R. Grey, spent the week-end at home.
Miss Grey: is a teacher in the Shelby
schools.

Miss Mary Dodson of Greensboro is
spending some time with her relative,
Mrs. Whittaker.

Mr. Richard G. Souther of Boston spent
a day last week with Professor and Mrs.
Lingle, his relatives.

Mrs. C. K. Brown gave a delightful
party in honor of her brother and nephew
who are spending some time with her.

The Sorosis Club was entertained by
Mrs. Jetton. Mrs. McIlwaine gave a most

ff

COLLEGE JEWELRY

‘RICHARDSON BROTHERS

(Continued from page 5)
points higher in their scholastic standing than
the average of the student body.

I have brought out how desperately Da-
vidson has needed modern playing grounds
and the crying need of some seating capacity.
Without them we realize the college must go
on playing all important games on foreign
fields in order to get enough revenue to sup-
port the Athletic Association’s program. This
would mean a continued loss of the large
advertising value of thousands of visitors,

ably impressed with the college.

At the same time, we realize, from: con-
tact with the administration, that with its
growing student body the college had other
equally pressing needs that a stronger appeal
to the church. Probably because we are
both comparatively young—even judged by
under-graduate standards—we decided it was

ing field and the beginning of a stadium. I
expect to live to see the day when this initial

up to us to give old Davidson a modern play- |

both old and young, and of their being favor- |

|
|

section of the stadium will merely be a small |

Literary fa

terian College editor would evidently deny us

this pyfivilege.
vidson does not expect to break off ath-
INefic relationships with P. C. in all branches

Philanthropic

negative.

lace argued for the negative against

firmative.

sion from both sides. Chas.

over Morrison of the affirmative.

Pandenic

The debate on the Volstead act,re cover

At the regular meeting ofthe Philan-
tropic Society on last Thursday night,
the debate, Resolved, that the Volstead
act should be modified so as to allow
light wines and beers, was won by the
L. K. Pritcher and Reid Wal-

Henry Powell and Bob Grady on the af-

The extemporaneous debate, Resolved
that should both Davidson and Wake
Forest be victorious in the Turkey Day
games, a post season game should be
played between them to settle the state
championship, commanded much enthu-
siasm from the house, and a fiery discus- | from advising him that he can rest assured |
McRae, of| that the breach will remain open as long as |
the negative received the judges decision| P; C, students are so adverse to meeting Da- |

the gridiron relationship if a continuance of
it seemed expedient for either party. A wil-
lingness on the part of Davidson to renew
the broken relationship as soon as it seems
wise was expressed in a letter from our ath-
letic chairman, W. W. Wood, to the P. C.
authorities. The Blue Stocking editor, in
spite of his attack on Davidson, is neverthe-
less seemingly pleased with the breach thus

of sport, and would not desire to sever even |
| stein, Sara Ross, and Ethel Braswell.

———
| THE DAVIDSONIAN WILL
SPONSOR PROGRAM

(Continued from page 1)
soux Johnston, Noel Walker, Minnie Silver-
The
number of the players this year will be about
fifteen.

Tickets for the performance on Tuesday
night will be placed on sale during the week-
end. All the seats will be reserved till Tues-
day night, when the tickets which have not
been disposed of will be sold as rush seats.
The reserved seats will be sold at 50 cents

created, and going Davidson one better, de-
clares that “we sincerely hope that the breach |
thus made by Davidson athletic officials will |
remain open for an indefinite period. We do}
not care to meet teams with such a spirit.”

Ignoring his derogatory reference to our
| team, which we regret, we cannot refrain |

| vidson teams. Davidson will never insist |
| upon a renewal of gridiron activities between |

|
| the two colleges!

| enly

and the rush seats will sell at 35 cents each.
Come on, boys.

A Scotch farmer fell in the well. The
water was over his head. hut he could
swim. His wife hurriedly yelled for the
|farm hands to come and pull him out.
“HOLD ON!” cried the Scotchman, “It's
11:00 o'clock. I'll swim around
down here till dinner time.”

France is considering the payment of
‘a dowry to marriageable girls at the age

part of a large permanent bowl. If Davidson has erred in her decision to

(a negative decision at the regular meet- |

Watches and Clocks

Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery

Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

J
ose shtaansrs as bcala et

PRINTING

When in need of first-class job

printing of any description, see

VERNON S. BROYLES

class of 1875.

diet, and no exercise. Being short of money,

of his class and the winner of two medals—
the Debater’s and the Greek medal and the
Latin‘prize. However, as a result he suffer-
ed a breakdown of several months shortly.)
after graduation and carried the results in|
impaired health all the rest™of his life.
Whatever I have said, after all, is summed
up in the wording of the memorial which we
hope may carry. a real message and goal ‘to
every man who enters the portals of old
Davidson:
RICHARDSON FIELD

Presented to the Alma Mater

In Memory of

Lunsford Richardson
(1854-1910)
Class of 1875

In the days when athletics were not

QUICK SERVICE
BEST PRICES

Agent for

ie Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

Charlotte
Transfer Company

PHONE 298

BAGGAGE
AND TAXI
SERVICE

JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

By his sons

H. Smith Richardson, ’06
Lunsford Richardson, Jr., ’14
In whose college days the value of athletic
training was just beginning to be appreciatd.
In the hope that future generations may

profit in increasing measure from

the benefits of trained minds
in strong bodies.

Sanitary drinking glasses made of ice
are formed in a freezing apparatus de-
vised by a Dutch engineer.

interetsing talk on social life in Japan.

The Kill Kare Club ‘was delightfully
entertained Thursday evening by: Miss
Martha Hamilton.

At the meeting of the Quadrangler’s
Club last Friday evening Dr. J. L. Doug-
las gave an interesting talk on the origin
of numbers and figures and on the ap-
plication of mathematics to problems of
every-day life. 3

Dr. and Mrs. C. M. Richards have mov-
ed to their new home on Concord Ave.

Mr. and Mrs, H. P. King and daughter, of
Bristol, Tenn., were in Charlotte Saturday
for the Davidson-Hampden-Sidney football
game, and spent Sunday here with Dr. and

Mrs. J. M. McConnell.

CHARLOTTE
GREENSBORO

S& W Cafeteria

ASHEVILLE
RALEIGH.

WHEN IN STATESVILLE

CALL ON US FOR YOUR
BARBER SHOP WANTS

Commercial Barber Shop
- Statesville, N, C.

while in college by hard study, on a careless

It was particularly fitting that we decided} ing of
to dedicate this field to the memory of our! Thursday night.

the Pandenic

the negative.
J. A. Price gave Current Events, dis- |

All members were warned that in the |
future all fines for absences were to be}
strictly enforced.

' Eumanean

Moye, and Copeland, won the regular |
debate in the Eumanean Society on last |
Thursday night, for the affirmative over |
Sparrow and Flynn of the negative. The|
vote of the house, however, on the merits ls
of the question, The modification of the}
Volstead act, was for the negatice.

Current events were given by Bragaw.

The attention of all members 4s called
te the change in time of meeting, to be
cffeceive at the next meeting. Hereafter
the meeting will begin at seven-fifteen
instead of seven-thirty as formerly.

WHERE OLD FRIENDS
MUST PART

(Continued from page 4)

calibre of Citadel’s’ eleven, which has lost
only one game in South Carolina this year,
and up to her defeat at the hands of Furman
last Saturday, was leading all South Carolina
teams with a percentage of 1,000. (We note
from the Blue Stocking itself that up until
last Saturday P. C.—the team we fear—was
trailing along in third place among the South
Carolina elevens with a percentage of only
.750).

P. C. essays the role of the small lad, weak
in stature, who has insisted on a scrap with a
larger and mode powerful fellow, and when
he “has- suffered defeat at the hands of his
larger opponent, goes off whining that he
might have won if the fellow had only been
his size, and that the victory for the bigger
boy was no credit since he won because of
size alone. Hitherto, we have admired the
grim determination of the little fellow (P.
C.) in his continued attempts to whip the
larger and more powerful opponent (David-
son). With the latest outburst from P. C.,
however, our admiration has turned to dis-
taste. For now the little fellow, who has
grown a bit too rowrdy in his squabbles, is
refused battle by his disgusted opponent,
and instead of accepting the refusal to fight
further in a spirit of fairness, the little boy
goes gossiping about that at last the big fel-
low is afraid to fight him. Some people don’t
seem to know when they are licked!

If Davidson were severing relationships
with P. C. simply because’ of the close score
by which the Wildcats won this year, then
it would seem that Davidson has delayed too
long her protective tactics. Why did not our
authorities break with P. C. back in 1923,
when Davidson won from the Blue Stockings
by the same score, and after a much harder
game? Mr. Blue Stocking Editor, you have
allowed absurd bias to distort your reasoning.

No college has been known to sign a per-
petual athletic contract. The decided prob-
ability of unseen circumstances entering in to
make any athletic contest undesirable ac-
counts for the unwillingness of colleges to
tie themselves up perpetually.’ What could
be more unsatisfactory, and more destructive
to friendliness than for the athletic associa-
tion of a college to agree to an irrevocable
contract calling for games with another col-
lege, regardless of what circumstances the
future might hold?

Davidson has always reserved the right to
‘shift her schedules in such a manner as would
result in the best interest to her athletic teams

| tors afd students !

society on last | withdraw from gridiron competition with
Lapsley and Bodenwe| P. C. until the present animosity, so notice-
father—the late Lunsford Richardson, of the| argued for the affirmative while Beavers | able in the Blue Stockings’ editorial, has sub-
In Dad’s day, athletics were! and H. W. White upheld the negative. | sided, we are distinctly unaware of it. Who
unknown in college life and I have heard him | The vote of the house on the merits of | will say that Georgia Tech erred when she
say, more than once, that he ruined his health| the question as presented was also for| dropped Davidson, a smaller school, from her
| schedule after the Wildcats had shown steady

improvement; who will say that a severance

he pushed his way through Davidson in three | cussing briefly a few things of world- | of gridiron relationships between Alabama

years, to’ graduation—one of the honor men | wide interest and importance. and Auburn, Georgia and Georgia Tech, and |

in a hundred similar cases, was not both wise }
| and justified ?
Someone had to exercise the initiative in

_ bringing the relationship between P, C. and

Davidson to a close until its renewal was
warranted by a revival of friendliness in both
| colleges. Davidson, unfortunately, was forced
through the inertia of .P. C. authorities to
take the step, and as a result of this, we must

uffer the unrelenting censure’of P. C. edi-
It is absurd for them,
however, to Say that they knew nothing of
the’animosity—for claiming ignorance in a
situation like this is beyond the pale of ra-
tionalism. We regret that such a step was
made necessary; we shall, unlike our P. C.
contemporaries, welcome the day when the
two schools can again meet in friendly com-
bat—but until that time, we have no apologies
to make for the actionvof our athletic offi-
cials.

sons burned to death with 46 injured.

of twenty-one to induce them to stay in
the country. The influx to the towns has
assumed serious proportions.

ICTORY
THEATRE

MOORESVILLE N.C.

Friday, Nov. 26+--Syncopating
Sue, with Corinne Griffith.

Sat., Nov. 27---Unknown Cava-
lier, with Ken Maynard.

Mon., Nov. 29---Return of Peter

Grim, a Fox production.

Tues., Nov. 30---The Boy Friend,
a Metro-Goldwyn picture.

Wed. and Thurs., Dec. 1 and 2---
Ace of Cads, with Adolphe Menjou.

VERY minute $1104 worth of property is

consumed by fire and every day 42 per-

Be

careful and help stop this awful waste.
McALISTER CARSON, Mgr. Insurance Department
INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

MOORESVILLE,

Mooresville Ice Cream Co.
Cail at Students’ Store for

Deluxe Ice Cream and
Eskimo Pies

DAVIDSON THEATRE

“WHERE YOU SEE THE BIG ONES”

MONDAY ‘AND TUESDAY, 29th and 30th
Elinor Glyn’s Love’s Blindness

WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY, Ist and 2d
Midnight Lovers

FRIDAY, Dec. 3d
The Great Gatsby, with Lois Wilson

SATURDAY, Dec. 4th

Ken '

‘Maynard in Unknown Cavalier, a First National
Western

COMING, MONDAY and TUESDAY, Dec. 6th ard 7th
sites Fairbanks in the Black Pirate

and to the college in general. The Presby-

