‘2

THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER

16, 1926

Ten Games Appear
On Team Schedule

Davidson's varsity football schedule as
announced by the athletic authorities last
week includes a total of 10 games. Of these
only three will be played on the Hill, the
Elon Christians coming for the initial en-
counter this, Saturday; Guilford will enter
the Wildcat home the» second week-end in
October, and the big game with Carolina
coming the middle of November.

Only one new-comer appears on the
schedule, Virginia Military Institute replac-
ing Furman, _All the other opponents are
ones of long standing with the Wildcats, the
Duke game ending the season for both teams
Thanksgiving.

Two teams will engage the Wildcats on
Wearn Field, in Charlotte, and the remainder
will be played at their own stamping grounds.
The completed schedule with the opponents
and dates follows:

Sept. 18—Elon at Davidson.

Sept. 25—Wofford at Spartanburg.

Oct, 2—Presbyterian College of S. C. at
Rock Hill.

Oct. 9—Guilford at Davidson,

Oct. 14—N. C. State at Raleigh.

Oct. 23—Wake Forest at Charlotte.

Oct. 30—V. M. I. at Lexington, Va.

Noy. 6—Hampden-Sidney at Charlotte.

Nov. 13—University of North Carolina at
Davidson.

“

|

Davidson Meets Elon on |
Richardson Field Next
Saturday in | First Game

First Football. Contest of Season
Pits the Wildcats Against the
Christians

SPORTOGRAPHS
By Caldwell Withers

With the opening of the 1926 football sea-
son only two days away many of the teams
of this section are rounding into form. The
Davidson Wildcats, after two weeks of in-
tensive training, will meet. the Elon Chris-

The opening clash in North Carolina foot- | tians on Richardson Field Saturday.
ball circles takes place Saturday at 3:00 p. m. | Prospects of a fast moving backfield for the
on Richardson Field, when the Elon eleven | Wildcats are better than in any of the more
visits the lair of the Fighting Wildcats in an | recent years.
effort to carry victory. Elon and Davidson | : TEAR
have met each other for the past several The main problem before Coaches Younger
years, and this game, which is generally the and Tilson is to develop a line that WW equal

The |

Varsity Prosiects Good
When 50 Men Report
For Football Practice

Six Letter-Men Out For Backfield—
Eight Veterans Seek Berths

in Line

Some 50 men have answered the call for
early practice issued about the first of the
month by Coaches Younger and Tilson. In
this group there are six letter men out for
backfield berths and eight men who played
more or less regularly in the line last fall.

first of the season, always proves a good in-| in strength and experience the seven letter
| dex.to the strength of the two teams. {men who'are out for backfield berths. The
| Although the Wildcats each year have been | varsity coaches were amply, aided in their
| the victors without exception in this contest, | task by the co-operation of ‘‘Flake” Laird
| there is question in the minds of some as to and “Gig” Shepherd, the former winner of |
|the outcome this year. As rumor and general |the Norris Trophy cup and one’ of the best
{athletes Davidson has ever developed, and

Also there are eight or ten men who got
into several games but who failed to make
their “D,” and several 1925 freshmen now
graduated into varsity ranks Who are capable
of making their presence known.

Captain Lucian Wells, with three years’
varsity experience and possessing a drive

| reports have it, Elon is much’ stronger this

| year, and Davidson weaker. There is a new
| coaching staff at Elon and the material is
| good. Captain McCauley, who is in a posi-
| tion to know the strength of his own team,
| says that this year’s outfit will be the strong-
| est ever to represent the Christians. As well
as having a number of last year’s varsity
back, there are.some good finds. Bog Engle-
| back, a Pennsylvania man weighing 180
| pounds, and who has quite a bit of experience,
es | is perhaps the biggest find. Francis Sites
WwW ld cc f | also bids to go good this year.

, cat sate | The Wildcats are sure also to make a
| creditable showing for the material is aver-
lage and the coaching superb. The backfield
| is no problem and will be perhaps as good as
|any in the state. Captain Wells, Grey, Leg-
gette, Sappenfield, Nisbet, Harrison and
Goodykoontz are good enough for any back-
field. Goodykoontz is the big find of the
season and it looks like a big season for him.
Black, the plunging fullback, is out perhaps
for the whole season on ‘account of illness.
The line will be the Witdcats’ weakness, but
this part of the team doesn’t look as bad as
it did at the first of the season. The guards
and tackles, if they prove strong, will mean
a dangerous opponent for any of the teams
in the state. -

Nov. 25—Duke University at Durham.

The varsity schedule of this season shows
only three games to be played on the Hill.
However, two foes, Wake Forest and Hamp-
den-Sidney, are to be met in Charlotte. The
entire schedule is printed elsewhere in this
issue of The Davidsonian:

WE HAVE THAT
HOME COOKING
OPEN

Monday Morning
12to2 A.M.

DAVIDSON, N. C.

The prospective line-up and positions are:

Where Good Fellows

» Wells (c) _.-- Kelly
Toasted Sandwiches GreyjeRs occas RES eeeseeee Englebach
Nisbet’. Geos cp se 2eue PB i oe ts Goggins

Snappy Curb Service |

’ The line will be built around Pinkney, Bo-
hannon, and Arrowood, ends and all mention-
ed for all-state berths last year; Ritchie,
tackle; Melton and J. Grey; guards, and Mc-

Connéll, center. Besides these letter men,

Brand-new place just be-

hind station

Neer

H the reserves of last year and the present
H Sophomore class will offer such men as
H Christian, Lincoln, Laws, Leftwitch, R. Mc-
u Connell, Jennings, Mitchell, and McColgan.
+ - +
In Statesville We Are Located
_ Toserve you when you visit
Drinks Candy Smokes
e
Austin Candy Shop .;
Statesville, N. C.

i

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP |

' The Most Convenient For

|

Davidson Men

| that is always consistent and at times bril-
| liant, will lead the Wildcat attack. Wells’
; one sure running mate will be Dick Grey,
: : perhaps the flashiest: back in the state.

Despite the fact that last spring Coach | Throughout last season Grey was always
Younger made the statement that Davidson consistent with his gains around the ends
would be lucky to win two games this sea- and off tackle. He will be the chief triple
son, and Tex Tilson issued a gloomy weather | threat man that Davidson’ will have, doing

the latter a flashy back who finished his ath-
letic career in '23.

|
|

Davidson. Position. Elon.

G tT th RinknGy 22Lcccscses 1G) Deepest Wilson

e oge er Ritch esc seacbascey LT osc2e2 Alexander, F.

Melton 2occcssscsee |B prey peruparsyyaic Cox

9 ~ McConnell ------ Center---. McCauley (c) |

\ B U C K § CORNER Grevielezcacsssaes RGasssewsste Jones, D.,|
IincOlne eases see Retaeenesee Jones, R.

Bohannon --------- Rises eae Scag Allston

Sodas, Fruits, Candies, Sappenfield Bock

report this fall, early practices seem to in- | practically all the passing and leading the
dicate that the Wildcats’ opponents had better | kicking attack in early practices. The illness
sit up and take notice. of Wick Black, captain of last fall, is a Big
; ' blow to the backfield prospects as he was the

The work the new section of: the ‘est line plunger on the squad. His place
stadium is being rushed and the contractors will be contested by Nesbit, Goodykoontz,
have promised to have the stands ready for | Leggette, Allen, Farrell, and Sam Black.
the Carolina game. The spirit exemplified | Nesbit and Leggette have both seen experi-
by the Richardson brothers, of Greensboro, | once in varsity games, thelatter running in
in making this long-felt need possible is the the first team backfield practically all of last
sort of feeling that has made Davidson grow. |season. Black was on the fresh team last
Messers. Richardson built the main athletic | fall. i
field at Davidson and have contributed to |
the college’s constructive program in many
ways.

on

The quartearback post will have the serv-
ices of both Sappenfield, varsity quarter in
'24, who broke his leg in the Elon game last
year, and Wilson, who called signals for the
fresh two years ago but who was out of
| school last season. Present indications point
to the fact that Sappenfield will get the call
over Wilson. Harrison, letter man of last
year, has shown more improvement than any
other man on the squad in his fight for a
is a blow to the prospects as Black will not | HA DaGk pos corn re 15 DEIN touted 8s

f i | Jim Hendrix’s most logical successor. Kell,
be able to get into the game at all this season. |

In addition to those nabed, several likely | the_outstanding back of last year's fresh; is

: ; | ar r man who will be ready for the
candidates have come up from the freshman | anothe i Y M
coaches’ call.

ranks, including Kell, Sam Black, and King. |

With Captain Wells, Grey, Harrison, Leg-
gette, Nesbit, Goodykoontz, Allen, and Far-
rell to carry the ball and with Sappenfield
or Wilson calling signals, the Wildcats will
be able to present a fast and well-rounded
combination. The serious illness of Wick
Black, last year’s captain and star plunger,

patria The end positions are being ably taken
The return to school df “Sook” Boggs, | 4T¢ of by three men, all of whom were
guard on the team of ’24, and basketball and Mentioned for all-state berths last fall.
track man, gave rise to. much speculation as | Pinkney, Arrowood and Bohannon are in a
to the strength of the center of the line, ™ad scramble for the two wing places. Mc-
Boggs was an all-state lineman, and with | Eachern and Wearn are also in the running.
Vance as a running mate presented an almost The knottiest problem for the coaches to
impregnable front. | solve is who are to play the tackles. Ritchie,
|one of the latgest men on the squad and let-
FIVE DAVIDSON STUDENTS jf tet ™2, is one of the outstanding candidates.
ee | He is receiving stiff opposition from Lincoln
(Continued from page 1) jand Laws, both subs last season who played
Problems and plead in a most forceful and | in a number of games. Leftwitch, big 180
earnest manner for more harmony between | pounder from the fresh 6f last year, and
the races. This was quite an innovation in | Jennings, also of the class of ’29, are two
the Y. M. C. A. conferences because it is | other likely men.
very rare that a representative of the colored |
race is heard on the Blue Ridge grounds. _|
Dr. J. Stitt Wilson, who is known by all

With the return to school’ of “Sook”
Boggs, the outlook as to the guard positions

has taken on the most promising of any in
the team. Boggs will play next to Joe Mc-
Connell, a veteran center and a man who was
acclaimed last year as being the most ac-
curate passer in the state. Playing the other
guard will be either Jim Grey or Melton.
Both of these) men earned their letters last
year and have proven their worth in scrim-
mage this fall. One of these men may be
shifted to tackle. Christian, McColgan and
Mitchell, out for guard,and Riggs McCon-
nell, center, have been giving the others a
run for their places.

A. prospective glance at the material of
Davidson opponents for the coming season
indicates that there are going to be an un-
usual number of hard contests for the Wild-
cats. While in actual number of letter men
returning to school this fall, Davidson prob-
ably has. more than most of the teams on the
schedule ; many of these men were substitutes
last year, so there are not so many veterans,
as would seem, on the local squad.

The season is too early yet a while to
make any statements as to freshman strength,
but there are a number of prep school cap-
tains and stars in the group of some 80 men
who responded to the call of Coach Mattox
last week. Five games have been arranged
for the fresh.

Webb says that there are some people in
Florida so low down that the seat of their
trousers spoils out their tracks when. they
walk in the sand.

SHOES FIXED BEST
E. A..FRYE SHOE SHOP
DAVIDSON, N. C.

1

We Have the Follow-
ing Departments
to Serve You

We Hope You Will Patronize
Th m

Dry Goods
Notions
Shoes
Furniture
Hardware

Groceries

M. H. Goodrum & Co.

the upper classmen at Davidson, spoke on
the shortcomings of the modern college edu-
cation. Dr. Wilson said the colleges of to-
day were failing in their primary goal—
teaching the student to think for himself. |
Several other fine lectures were delivered, |
and were of great value toward making the
conference the great success that it was.
The -recreational side of the conference
was also: stressed. There were numerous
hikes to nearby points of scenic interest and
athletic competitions between the various
colleges represented. Baseball was the king
of- sports, followed closely by basketball,

The Globe Clothing Company

Clothing, Shoes, Shirts and all
the latest Haberdashery
for young men

Yellow Slickers, $4.50 and $5.00

T

tennis, and volleyball. Davidson made a most

Nat
-

creditable showing in tennis, due largely to
the skillful playing of Red McAlpine. The
University of Georgia won the championship
in baseball, basketball, and volleyball. The
Blue Ridge lake ,was the scene of much
bathing and canoeing during the conference.
The canoes were in great demand on moon-
light nights—due to the presence of quite a
few girls in the vicinity, r

The conference was a great success from
beginning to end and proved of unusual value
to those attending as well as providing them

ehijoyable

visit to Blue Ridge.

To the new Students comine for the first time,
and to the old ones returning,
we extend a hearty
W-E L CG-O-M=s
WHITE DRUG COMPAN

DAVIDSON, NC. :

+
