6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 18, 1926

Shrine Quartet Unable
to Appear as Scheduled

Famous Musicians Will Give Con- |

In Excellent
cert Here at Later Date |

| Bubbles of mirth—
Sonorous strains from a romantic guitar—
thrill !—surprise—

The Shrine Quartet, which was scheduled |
to entertain’ a Davidson audience Tuesday |
night, will be unable to fill its engagement,
and the event has been postponed until the,
middle or the latter part of April.
singer, Mr. Saunders,

All the fun and pep of a firecracker—

was unavoidably de- | unseen.
tained in. Spartanburg, and for this reason |

| And we have with us Colleen Moore in the |
the appearance here has been put off. |

stage hit, “The Desert Flower.”

This group is composed of Mr. Lacy
Adams, first tenor; Mr. D. H. Williams, sec-
ond tenor; Mr. P, H. Thompson, baritone,
and Mr. D. Saunders, bass. Since all are
college men they know the kind of program
that will be most enjoyable at Davidson. A
number of parodies and popular songs will be

When Margaret Fortune finds herself and |
her little step-sister, Gwen, left motherless |

which Mike Dyer, her brutal step-father, is
| boss, she turns for advice to Mrs. McQuade,
wife of one of the crew, and the only other |
woman in the camp. Mrs. Mack, as she is

featured. called, urges the girl to take her infant sister |

This quartet has toured Canada, Mexico, land quit camp. But it is only after a brutal |
California, and has visited a number of the | attack by Dyer, brought on by his jealousy |
large cities throughout the United States. bs young Rance Conway, a good looking |
In all their concerts they have been most |
favorably received. On March 22nd _ the)

quartet will broadcast from Station WBT

she steals away with little Gwen. Margaret
*| overtakes Rance, and together they enter the
Inew gold boom town of Bull Frog. Jack
| Royal, proprietor of the dance hall, engages

| Margaret, and with the first money earned

\in another state.

oy | Margaret is now very much in love with
| Rance and determined to reform him, Rance
| has just squandered a large sum of money
sent him by his wealthy father in the East.
| Margaret taunts him with being a quitter,
and finally arouses his manhood.

PILOT MOUNTAIN+ NORTH CAROLINA,

| THE PILOT

| She stakes him and he goes out into the
|desert to “do or die.” On the night that
| Rance returns with Mike
strikes town, He gets into Margaret's shack
and is threatening her life when Rance en-
ters. There is a shot and Dyer apparently
drops dead. Margaret is about to be arrested
for the murder, but Rance swears it was he
i who fired, While the sheriff was in a quandary
over which to arrest, Dyer revives. He is
merely wounded, The sheriff takes him in
charge,

é

For the College Man

The Pilot Life Insurance

Company provides €a@ con-

SUCCESS,

tract at one-half regular

premium rates during the

first five years. Rance claims Margaret as his bride and
{they leave a honeymoon in the bride-

groom's palatial Eastern home.
“The Desert Flower”
| Gym,

for

This liberal feature makes
it convenient for the college
man to get his life insur-
ance at his present age and

will be shown at the
Saturday night, March 20th.

Malcolm Martin has accepted a position

protection from the Pilot.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO.
GREENSBORO, N.C.

A. W. McALISTER, President

a taste of what they will be fortunate enough
to hear in Shearer Hall soon.

in some time, and everyone will be well re-
paid to come out and hear the famous Shrine
Quadrtet.

THE CHARLOTTE HOTEL

One of the Foor-Robinson System

Dining Room and Coffee Shop in connection.

OA good
hotel in a good town”

239 W. Trade St. CHARLOTTE, N. C

INSURANCE

We know the cost but we cannot even estimate the price
of not carrying it.

McA. CARSON, Mgr. (’13)
Independence Trust Co.

Insurance Department. Charlotte N.C.

SELBY ICE CREAM CO.

Prompt attention toorders for
fine Ice Crea

SELBY ICE CREAM CO.
STATESVILLE, N. C.

All the beauty of a flower that grew and |
The bass! blushed in the desert sun—but NOT to be|

tramp whom Margaret has befriended, that | -p

| she sends baby Gwen off to a nursing home |

Dyer |

‘ i i with the Haustica Petroelum Co., and ex-
carry it for the least possi- | pects to leave for Brazil in the early |
ble cost during college days. 4 ‘Pring:

ae ae ‘
See that you get your Charlotte. Radio fans might tune in and get |

The program here is expected to be onc}
of the most enjoyable and entertaining heard |

‘Colleen Moore to Appear Here

Picture Saturday ,

Seminary Quartet Will
Conduct Vesper Service
Here Sunday Afternoon

The regular Y. M. C. A. vesper service
next Sunday eevning will be in charge of a
quartet from Union Theological Seminary,

| Richmond, Va. The quartet is composed of
| Dan McGeachy, class of '22, bass; Alexander
| McKelway, Hampden-Sidney, baritone; A. |

|ningham, of Austin College, tenor. The
Union Seminary Quartet visited Davidson |
last year, and it will be remembered that
|three of the above men, McGeachy, Gibson, |

|and McKelway, were members of the quartet |
ji at that time. They are coming as a deputa-|
{tion from the Seminary, and one of them
j will address the students at the vesper service.
They will also probably sing at the morning ,
church service and have charge of the Minis- |
terial Band program.

Union Seminary has a reputation for good
| quartets as well as good speakers, so next |
Sunday's service promises to be most worth-
while.

Davidson has already had deputations from
| Louisville and Columbia Seminaries which
were well received and enjoyed, and it is |
| with pleasure that we look forward to the
coming of this one from Union.

Norris Athletic Trophy
to be Awarded in June

‘Present Holder of Award Ineligible |
to Enter Into Competition Again

The Norris Athletic Trophy for 1925-1926
will be awarded at commencement to David- |
sons best all-round athlete. The award will |
go to the student who, throughout the year, |
most distinguishes himself in’ the
branches of intercollegiate sport.

Flake Laird, star in three major sports, |
was winner of this trophy year before last, |
no award being made last year. Inasmuch |
| as one athleté may not win more than once, it |
is probable that the race for the honor this |
year will be close, and considerable interest |
is being manifested in it.

1. The Norris Athletic Trophy commit- |
tee, made up the director of athletics, the
chairman of the faculty athletic committee, |
the graduate manager of athletics, the presi- |
dent of the student body, and the alumni sec- |
retary, with Mr. Frank E. Lowenstein, of |
Atlanta, Ga., as ex-officio chairman, shall |
have charge of the details of awarding the |
trophy. In the absence of the ex-officio
|chairman, the director of athletics shall pre-
‘side at all mectings of the committee. The!
alumni secretary shall act as secretary to the |
jcommittee, and shall keep a record of all!
proceedings.

|

several |
|

|
|

2. To be eligible for the trophy the pros- |
pective recipient must have attained a pass- |
ing grade on at least 70 per cent of his!
scholastic work carried during the year.

3. The winner shall be determined by a
popular vote of the student body in a pri-
mary election to be held during the first week |
in April, and in a final election to be held at |
the same time and place that balloting occurs |
for the election of officers of the student
government, «

4. The three men receiving the highest |
number of votes in the primary election shall |
j be considered as candidates for the trophy, |
land shall enter the final election to be held
| simultaneously with the election of officers
of the student government
vided.

5.

as above pro-
Each regularly enrolled student of the
college may vote once for the candidate of
his choice in the primary by writing the said
candidate’s name on the ballot prepared for |
that purpose and depositing same in the bal- |
lot box; but after the field of candidates has |
| been narrowed down to three by the primary,
only the three men receiving the highest |
{number of votes shall be considered in the
‘final election. |

6. Ballots for the final election shall Bae

the names of each of the three candidats, |
{and the voter shall carry the names of each
of the three candidates, and the voter shall
jindicate his choice by a cross mark (X) after |
| the name of the candidate for whom Be elects |
to vote.

7. Balloting in both the primary and the
| final election shall be conducted by represen-
tatives of the Norris Athletic Trophy com-
mittee. Immediately after the primary, the
committee shall determine from a count the
three candidates to enter the final election.

| Their names shall be published in the stu-
| dents’ newspaper, “The Davidsonian,” and
re be posted on all college bulletin. boards.

If the three men receiving the highest
number of votes in the primary are below
|the scholastic standard adopted, the commit-

|tee may substitute the names of the next
| highest men whose scholarship work meets

{the requirements. In determining the schol-
‘astic standing of a student, the committee
shall be guided by the records on file in the
registrar's office.

9. All expenses incurred in holding both
the primary and the final election, such as
the cost of printing the ballots, etc., shall be
borne by the Davidson College Athletic As-
sociation.

10, The name of the winner of the trophy

A : j ‘ | ‘ sty. Re a
in a desert railroad construction camp, of V. Gibson, class of ’23, lead; and Tom Cun-| Shall be given to the commencement pro

gram committee to be printed in the com-
mencement program and the trophy shall be
}awarded along with other awards, medals, |
¢te., at the commencement.

BALTIMORE Y. M. C. A. AND
NAVAL ACADEMY

(Continued from page 2)

Defense tactics rather than those of the
attack were in evidence as indicated by the
lack of falls. The visitors won four decis-
lions totalling a dozen points and the Midship-
men secured three.

The best bouts of the afternoon were in
ithe 115 and 125 pound classes. The Ashford
brothers put up a good defense against Frie-
son and Barrington respectively, each, losing
by an advantage of less than two minutes.

Summary: Score, Davidson 12; Naval

| Academy, 9.

115-pound class—Frierson, Davidson, won
decision ‘over C. Ashford, Navy (Capt.),
with time advantage of 1.48.

125-pound class — Barrington, Davidson,
won decision over W. Ashford, Navy. Time
advantage of 1.43.

135-pound class—Viser, Navy, won decision
over Davis, Davidson. Time advantage. Two
extra periods of three minutes.

134-pound class—Cox (Capt.), Davidson,
won decision over Davidson, Navy. Time ad-
vantage of 4.43.

158-pound class—Fstridge, Davidson, won

leqmai 5 : :
decision over Furtney, Navy, with time ad-

vantage 4.21.

175-pound class—Chappell, Navy, won de-
cision over Crinkley, Davidson, Time ad-
vantage 6,12.

Unlimited weight—Wickhorst, Navy, won
decision over Vance, Davidson. Time advant-

age 3.2,
Referee — Ganster (Baltimore Athletic
Club). Time of bouts, nine minutes.

PHI BETA KAPPA

(Continued from page 1)
coming year were also elected. Dr.

J. L.

wen eannssnosesasawaaaaaaaaaaanaaaee:

——

e-

W. W. Woods was re-elected secretary and
treasurer.

Invitations were received from Agnes
Scott College and the University of South
Carolina, requesting the presence of repre-
sentatives at the installation of chapters in
these two institutions. Dr. T. W. Lingle and
Prof. W. W. Woods were appointed to rep-
resent the local chapter at the latter ceremony
and also to attend the meeting of represen-
tatives of all the chapters of seven states
from Maryland to Florida.

CO-OPERATING

Fellows, we are trying to make The
Davidsonian the “livest wire on the
Hill,” but this is impossible for us to
do if we do not have the co-operation
of the students. :

There are so many things happening
on the campus today that it is abso-
lutely impossible for one man to learn
about all that is taking place.

We want to ask those who are at the
head of any clubs, organizations, or
fraternities to let the assignment editor
of The Davidsonian know when they
have anything of interest that should
appear in the paper.

Just drop a card to Kenneth Bell, or
go by 15 Georgia and let him know
about your article. He will see about
the rest.

Professional Notices

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN

DENTIST
311, 312, 313, 314 and 315 Professional Bldg.

PHONES: Office, £050

| OTTE, N. C.
Residence, 1937-3 CHARL

| Douglas, the former vice-president, was elect- OPTOMETRIST
ed.to the presidency to succeed Dr. C. R. 24 South Tryon St.
Harding, the present incumbent. Dr. T. W. Up Stairs CHARLOTTE, N, C.
Telephone 3528
Lingle was elected vice-president, and Prof.
CT

Mooresville Ice Cream Company

Incorporated

“DE LUXE” ICE CREAM

Brick and Fancy Creams---Eskimo Pies

Mooresville, N. C.

2 South Tryon Street
One si Res: 3419-W Ove: Garibaldi & Bruns

DR. JAY R. McCABE

CHIROPRACTOR
Charlotte, N. C.

Neurocalometer Service

Dr. C. F. Smithson

DENTIST

Charlotte N.C.

Eyes Examined Glasses Fitted

F. C. ROBERTS

“EVERYTHING MUSICAL”

PIANOS, PLAYER-PIANOS
VICTROLAS

RECORDS AND ROLLS

Band instruments of all kinds, stringed instruments

SHEET MUSIC

OLDEST IN THE STATE

ANDREW

MUSIC 213
STORE N. Tryon St.

