THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 14, 1926

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY’ CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: —
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor hy 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

HARLLEE BRANCH, JR..-..--..............Rditor-in-Chief
VERNON S. BROYLES.......2 2222222 Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

Wii OLN GOP ic soueccecutausolpeauun casuwe Managing Editor
BOYCE MARTIN... -Assistant Managing Editor
F. C. WITHERS._. ~-.---..-.-.-.-Athletic Editor
BUFORD WEBB -Associate Fditor
H. L. SHELBY-.._- ..-Alumni Editor
D. M. CALHOUN --Exchange Editor
Hy Ue SHR Besse as Humorous Editor
D. M. CALHOUN ...-....-Alumni Editor
WS; (GORDON 3322.2. ..Assignment Editor
P. F. JONES... g .-.------ Feature, Editor
Leal UN boSsuwsancccccastcetesere caren . Inquiring Reporter
BUSINESS STAFF
E, L. DOUGLASS...._.___-..__Assistant Rusiness Manager
M. P. CRAWFORD --Assistant Business Manager
JULIAN LAKE_.... .-.---Assistant Business Manager
. A. McALPINE_- ------....-Subscription Manager
V. L. ALBRIGHT. aueucwias --Circulation Manager

R. S. ABERNETHY..._.-.-.-.--..-_.-

-.-.-Service Manager

Reporters’ Club

C. C. MURCHISON C. R, LAKE

W. T. COVINGTON R. R, KANI

W. T. DAVIS TOHN GWIN
JOHN MORIARTY T. T. JONES

A. N. BROWN R. H. McILWAINE
J: EY F-P- McK NIGHT
L. WADSWORTH A. M. SPARROW
TYREE DILLARD B. WILSON

J. R. WEAVER B. F. McQUEEN

EDITORIAL

Speaking of the movement of youth from
the farm to college, we think it should be
restricted to about 35 miles an hour,

D

\ man who falls
never has any rivals.

D

A mistake is only made worse by mis-

statement, :

in love with himself

D
College students can agree on almost any-
thing except religion and the size of hail-
stones. Read Warren Ogden’s Open Forum
article on this page.
D
The Guilford Quakers undoubtedly had
the Wildcats quaking for a while during the
third quarter last Saturday, but after the
last whistle had blown, they departed from
the lair of the scrapping ’cats looking as de-
jected as their Blue-Lawed brethren of
Quaker City.

D
Who’s located the meek little freshie who
turned to a sophomore after the O. D. K.
tapping ceremony the other morning and
remarked: “TI don’t see why they didn’t
tap me, I was willing to join?”

CHEER UP, PLEASE!

The success of the Cheerios, an organiza-
tion of two hundred and fifty loyal sons of
the University of North Carolina, in reviv-
ing student enthusiasm at athletic contests,
calls to our mind the eminent need of a re-
vival of this sort on our own campus.

Successful athletic teams depend to a
large extent on the unified support of the
student body, Eleven men, giving every
ounce of their strength, may work ‘won-
ders in overcoming teams that are of equal
weight and power; but, when the time comes
for that team to scofe against odds, some-
thing more than the strength of the players
is needed. That element can be supplied
only by the student in the stands, and by
them, only when they enter into the task of
cheering with whole-hearted enthusiasm
and vigor.

The Cheerios at Carolina will take their
seats at every athletic contest, wearing Blue
and White uniforms and carry small mega-
phones. By their example, they hope to in-
crease the interést of the students in all of
the yells, drills, and stunts, in such a way as
to register new enthusiasm and support for
the Carolina teams. Their purpose is a
worthy one, and the success with which
their efforts have been crowned is a surety
that they are on the right trail.

Here at Davidson, where the “Wildcat
spirit” has gradually dwindled away until
today it is hardly more than a cherished
myth, we are in need of a similar organiza-
tion. Our spirit is frankly dead! Ask the
cheerleaders. They are in a position to
know just how little enthusiasm is being
registered among the students. They will
tell you that a reform is not only needed,
‘but that if it doesn’t come soon, it will be
too late!

| it is discouraging to them to sit on the
| bench and urge their men to fight’ for a
bunch of fellows who show so little interest
in the way things af€ going. Cceach Carl
Prause at Citadel has said “Some have the
opinion that a team plays for a coach, for
the school, for the crowd or for the alumni.
My point of view is that it plays more for
the student body than for any other reason.”
If the Citadel coach has made the proper
diagnosis, it is time the student body was
waking up to its responsibLiliay.

The absurd idea that freshmen should
bear the brunt of the yelling has become too
prevalent of late. Upperclassmen should
consider it a privilege to lead their younger
college-mates in this activity, and should
realize that their example will go far toward
securing more unified cheering among the
new men. :

Various reasons have ‘een assigned for
the lack of spirit among students at David-
son. Principal among these is the idea that
we have depended in the past 100 much on
“manufactured pep.” and that we have at-
tempted to secure that sort of enthusiasm
by numerous rallies. It seems generally
agreed that we are holding too many “pep”
meetings, and that this fact is to some extent
responsible for the lack of life at the games.
The cheering at the games, following these
numerous pep meetings, has proved an an-
ti-climax in too many instances.

Clean, wholesome rooting by a united stu-
dent body, enthusiastic and whole-heartedly
supporting their team is a greater- factor

than the average observermasy-realize. The
example set at'Carolina conned: to us the
idea of a revival of student enthusiasm.

SPECIALIZATION—PLUS

“If a man does only his owm specified
work, it is seldom he gets a chance to do
anything worthwhile. He must do his own
work, plus; if he is to get anywhere,” Al-
bert Terhune reminds us in one of his recent
feature articles.

More justified than any other so-called
criticism of the modern college graduate is
the charge that he is too inte sively special-
ized. Scholars of the old type bewail the
passing of the well-rounded man. At times
these advocates of classical culture weaken
their stand by failing to see any advantage
whatsoever in specialization. [Extremists on
either side of the question will discover an
arbiter in Glenn Frank, for the past year
president of the University cf Wisconsin.

President Frank, journalist and educator,
believes “The student in the average iusti-
tution is today in danger of falling victim to
either of two dangers—the danger of suici-

dal smattering, or the danger of suicidal:

specialization.” To remedy this fault he has
already installed an experimental college
within the regular college or arts and
sciences at the University of Wisconsin.
The plan is to give the student a, well pro-
portioned course in general culture the first
two years. If any man or woman so de-
sires a diploma will be awarded them when
this first unit of work is completed. Those
whose attendance at college is a mattcr of
parental compulsion will welcome the
chance to be out, and the college Will be
benefited by their leaving,

Those students who wish to specialize in
some art, science, or profession will remain
two years and build their special scholarship
upon the cultural foundation laid down the
first two years.

From a utilitarian viewpoint the product
of such a college would be highly accept-
able. Even in this age of universal special-
ization men realize that a Comprehensive
and intelligent understanding of the whole
is necessary to the most successful function-
ing of the part.

And the specialist with a one-man job
may become a benefactor of his fellowman
if his education is built on the plan of a
pyramid—a broad base of general culture,
tapering more and more to a fine point of
specialization, For, acting in accordance
with his training, he will reach out and take
upon himself details of-other jobs than his
own, This relief of his fellowman will per-
mit the latter to attain greater proficiency
in his narrow and minor field.

Glenn Frank’s experiment sounds inter-
esting at any rate.

[s Day:

The recent action of the Student Council
at the University of North Carolina which
led to the suspension of two students for
“conduct tending toward hazing” is to be
commended. Not only is hazing undesirable
fromthe standpoint of collegiate, discipline
and well-being, but’ it is unlawful under
North Carolina statutes. Such punishment
as was inflicted by the University’s student
council is both deserved and invited by those
students who still seek a thrill in imposing
upon their younger and less sophisticated
fellow-students

7

Is Christianity Worthwhile?

(AN OPEN-FORUM DISCUSSION)

In an age of Pragmatism we cannot but ques-
tion the value of every part of civilization--its
value today and not in some age long forgotten.
Such questioning will have one of two effects;
it will help to destroy that whicn is useless or

| detrimental or it will show the real worth of that

which has a right to abide. The result, there-
fore, is definitely based on the true value of that
which is brought up for tria!. in no case can such
a testing be unfortunate, provided those who sit
m judgment are sincere and just.

Christianity is at the bar of Justice. What is
to be said for and against the Defendant?

First, there must be an exact statement of who
is on tHal. There has long heen a confusion of
terms in this connection; Christianity, to some,
is the collection of the teachings of Jesus Christ
interpreted by each individual for himself; to
others, this vague term represents a system of
rligious dogma. ;

In this brief article let us consider only the lat-
ter, the Church as it is termed by some.

It is indeed interesting to note that the ma-
jority of those who call themselves Christians do

_ not consider more than a small minority of their
| other self-termed Christians as followers of the

true faith, nor do they feel that it would be right
for the rest to join in eternal happiness. Songs
have been sung, sermans preached, and prayers
made concerning the Church as “one foundation.”
On even moderately close examination, this proves
an absurdity. When Moslem troops have to be
called in to separate Orthodox and Roman Chris-
tians, can we sanely talk of a united Church?
When one branch of the Church tears members
of another branch limb from limb because of a
difference in interpretation, can a moderately in-
telligent man say that “the Church is one foun-
dation?” :

Furthermore, we can not deceivé-ourselves into
believing that all this’ died at the end of Queen
Elizabeth’s reign. And we cannot blind ourselves
to the point of believing that such feeling is found
only in “darkest” Europe. Protestantism has
been, from its birth, schismatic; and there seems
to be no radical change in policy today. In fact
there seems a pending division at the present
moment.

Unquestionably the so-called Christianity,
which is better termed the Church, has failed
hopelessly to follow the example and teachings of
its supposed leader in tolerance.

From the Orient comes a question which must
be answered—“Was the World War a result of
your Christianity?” It was started by the so-
called Christian Nations of the World and both
sides supported their armies by Scriptural refer-

|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
!
|

ences. Both of the belligerants prayed to the
same God that their own sons might be victor-
ious—the cost of which victory was inevitably the
death of other sons. And Europe weltered in the
blood of six continents—because  self-termed
Christian nations disagreed.

Perhaps the Church did not definitely begin this
unspeakable. orgy of blood; but were there not
flags hung in every Church edifice, were there not
sermons preached from every pulpit that con-
doned the war, was not this atrocity considered al-
most a holy war? z

If the Son of Man preached brotherly love, the
Church went sadly astray in the mad years of the
early twentieth century.

England, the great exponent of Protestant
Christianity, has given us a noteworthy example
in her treatment of inferior races. We are not
discussing Russia or Spain whose interpretations
of the Christian faith we question—but England,
our Mother in blood and in Faith. Of course the
Imperial system can be defended by talk of the
advantages which accrue to the native populations
—but what a defence! Was it to aid the highway
department of India that wars without number
have been fought?

Industrialism has no more snow-like record than
does Imperialism. Strikes, shut-outs, starvation,
these are results of the industrial system of Chris-
tian lands.

Militarism, Industrialism, Imperialism—these
are the foundation stones of. Christian Civilizaton
and every one is bathed in blood.

Christianity stands at the bar, and a sentence
must be rendered. If the teachings of the God-
Man of Judea is the test, Christianity must be
damned as the world’s greatest failure. It may
have done a hundred good deeds but it has failed
in the supreme test.

What, then,“is to be done? If the so-called
Christian conception of God is no nearer to the
face Jesus Christ revealed to us than is the image
of Allah, what are we to do? Are we to throw
the whole system away and gain no better sub-
stitute?

It is not my purpose to state a dogmatic solu-
tion, but at present it seems to me that there is
but one way out of this labyrinth—such a course
is to throw aside all the dogmas of dead ecclesiasts,
to forget the traditions and false theories that
hide the truth, to leave out of consideration all the
divisions and prejudices, and to seek the real
meaning of a Book, forgotten in much reading.
The solution of the problem lies in losing sight
of Hildebrand, Luther? and Calvin, and in gaining
a vision of the Christ.

W. C. OGDEN.

«

Inquiring Reporter

Collegiate Chatter

For the past many years Davidson has been
playing practically the same teams in football.
Would it not be better to change the schedule,
and make an arrangement*that would do David-
son justice?

Bob Kefl: I think it would help Davidson to
drop some of the teams that they have been play-
ing, such as Guilford and P. C. and in their place
run in teams such as Washington and Lee, or
Georgia Tech. For if we were to lose to them,
by a small score, it would be better than beating
others we have been playing.

Laudon Williams: It would be wise to cut out
P. C, first of all, playing one South Carolina team,
such as the University, in its place. Then, the
team should take a distant trip, to play some
recognized team, for the advertisement, if noth-
ing else.

Spike McGhee: It seems that our team is of
such calibre to warrant better contracts than they
have been having. Larger teams, such as Geor-
gia Tech, or V. P. I. ought to be substituted in
place of the small state teams. we have on the
regular schedule.

Dick Grey: Davidson would do ‘well to play
Georgia Tech. I think we could stack up fairly
well against them, and should we put them in the
place of P. C., it would make a name for Davidson.

Sam Coker: It would be better for Davidson
to play larger, and better known teams, for as
long as we play mediocre teams, ours will be the
same, but stiffer opposition would make David-
son build up a stronger team.

John Kugler: Our first step should be to drop
P. C. But we need the other small games to rest
up the team between the more important games.
A gradual increase of ‘bigger games would make
the team stronger each year.

Charley Harrison: Our schedule ought-to re-
main the same, except for the first four games.
These should be: Richmond College, P. C., Wof-
ford, and Clemson—especially Clemson as it is a
(Conference team.

John Foster: I think it would be a great thing
for Davidson to enter the Southern Conference,

and_cut_out-such_games_as_Guilford_and—P.C,_

Ask the coaches. They will tell you that

SAYS THE GOVERNOR OF NORTH CAROLINA
TO THE GOVERNOR OF SOUTH
CAROLINA Bi

The Emory Wheel, from Emory University,
hands the University of North Carolina a hot
one in the following comment: “The Tar Heel an-
nounces that students who drink on or off the
campus will be punished by student council. May-
be this accounts for its other announcement that
there are more than forty unclaimed scholarships
in the president’s office awaiting their proper
claimants.” ‘

SUNDAY SPORTS

Members of the freshmen class at Roanoke
College were lined up before the dormitories
there last Sunday morning for a “Shoe Scrim-
mage,” this being a traditional ceremony in the
lives of all Roanoke College freshies, says the
Brackety Ack. The new men were barefooted, and
their shoes and socks were tied together in a
great heap across the campus. At the signal
“go,” the freshies limped across the gravel walks
and grabbed for their shoes in the tangled mass of
footwear. After the shoes had been salvaged by
rightful owners, the freshies lined up: and were
marchesLaf to church. A spirit of reverence, no
doubf, prevailed throughout the festivities.

“ THE GIBSON GIRL

Mrs. Charles Dana Gibson,’ and Buck ,Lang-
horne, sister and brother of Lady Nancy Astor,
the Virginian member of the English Parliament,
visited William and Mary College last week while
on an automobile tour of Tidewater, Virginia., ac-
cording to an item appearing in The Flat Hat.
Mrs. Gibson is the original “Gibson Girls,” the
pictures of whom helped to make her husband
famous as one of America’s great artists.

MORE SUFFRAGETTES
Agnes Scott College now boasts a League of
Women Voters all its own, declares the Agonistic,
the purpose of which is to develop in the under-
graduates an interest in civic affairs that will-en-
able them to better serve their various communi- -

2. — ys. ~
