“last year to the utmost.

if

THE DAVIDSONIAN,

DECEMBER 16, 1926

PLAYING THE GAME
With Withers

Basketball Begins
All-State Freshmen
Varsity Wrestling
New Managers

The game tomorrow night between the Da-
vidson Wildcats and Salisbury “Y" promises
to be a close affair. This will probably be
one of the closest opening games that Da-
vidson has had in a number of years, as the

Salisbury outfit is touted as a crack aggre- |

gation. Davidson has had only a few weeks

of practice and practically no intensive train- |

ing in preparation for the game, but will no
doubt win. :

More and closer competition is being ex-

péerienced thissseason by the letter men than |

last year. McAuley, Hudgins, Kugler, and
Calhoun are pushing the four veterans of
A number of other
candidates are working hard and have great
potentialities.

Hunt and DeCamp, guards on the fresh- |

man football team, were awarded places on
all-state football teams. Although both
were not placed on the same composite teams,
each garnered enough votes to win places on
the two different selections. More potential
material was on the fresh squad this year
than in a long time. But it takes more than

one season to develop men of this sort as the |

great majority of them had had little or no
experience before entering college. Coach
Mattox turned out a very creditable aggre-
gation in spite of all these hindrances.

y

‘ 4
age VF
~

%

4

|
[\

Matmen Progress
as Season Nears

The wrestling team of Davidson has con-
tinued to show up well, and, as the prelimi-
| nary stage of training ends Captain Frierson
feels confident that this year will again be
proof of Davidson's superiority in this line
of athletics. Although he makes no actual
statement as to the degree of success he
expects , it is very easy to see that there is
little fear of ruining the brilliant record that
our wrestling team has made in the past.
The large number of candidates for the var-
sity squad is, in itself, proof~that a great
interest is being taken in this sport. °

Five varsity letter men, Captain Frierson,
,Manager Davis, Estridge, Crinkley and
Mauldin form the nucleus of the squad about
which Captain Weems intends forming the
new squad. About 35 upper-classmen are
practicing regularly and those who are show-
|ing up especially well are Bohannon, Cro-
|martie, Flythe, Garrison, Hansel, Harper,
Harrell, Herriott, Hill, and Vance. This is
a strong squad and as they get into training
it is easy to see that only the very best men
| will be able to make the varsity team.

An unusually large number of freshmen
have turned out and although they show lack
of experience as a whole, under the expert

(SS)

¢

WY,

Contest With Salisbury —
to be Only Game Before |
Christmas for Wildcats

J

‘Hunt Lands Berth
On All-State Team

Coach Mattox’s Wildkittens were not as
fortunate as their older brothers in placing

The Davidson basketball team will play|men on the mythical all-state eleven, for
their first game of the season on Saturday,| where three varsity men were so honored,
December 18th, in the gymn at 7:00. o’clock| only one freshman was awarded a position.
sharp. In order to have a game full of in- It is considerably harder to pick an all-state
terest, in which the team might be thor-| freshman team than a varsity, because the
oughly tested, Salisbury “Y” was asked to! yearling schedules are not nearly so compre-
fill this date, and consequently the Wildcats | hensive, and thus it is rather difficult for one

FOR THAT TASTE OF
Home Cooking On Your
Way Home
New York Cafe

« HARLOTTE, N.C.

29 West Trade St

will take the floor against a dangerous and | scribe to choose eleven outstanding players,
skilled team, one of the best in the state. | and at the same time be fair to all.
Flake Laird, captain of last year’s team, will; In this year’s pick, selected by L. N. Byrd,

be in the line-up for Salisbury and those who! of the University, Hunt, dependable Wild- |
have seen him play may anticipate’ some | kitten forward, jvas the only Davidson man
spectacular shooting.

Salisbury, so far this year, has been run- | 172 pounds, has been a power of strength to
ning away in all its games, and it will be | the Kitten line, and his work has been an
necessary for as many students as posible to | outstanding feature of every game.
back the Cats in this opening game. ? ania

The line-up is still uncertain, but the posi- | BUBNOU Yau emee eure! rs i
tions will SEREAIY be filled Hee the follow- | “Te uncovered on the “rat” squad, but Mat-
ing: Captain Tom Anderson, Ben Wilson,
Johnnie Simpson, Bennie McCauley, Droopy
Hudgins, Charlie Harrison, D. M. Calhoun,
and Glenn Calhoun. All of these have been
showing up well in practice, being coached
during the lagter part of the football season

Need Double

Treatment
Vicks’ double
action (inhaled
and absorbed)
‘brings relief

VISss

OVER 1% MILLION JARS USED YEARLY

OD
zg
‘J

coaching of Capt. George Weems an increas-
Prelim; f , ‘ | ing number are showing that they have the
reliminary try-outs for the varsity wrest- making of real wrestlers. Two neehimen

ling team are being held this week. Five | witt be taken on the trip to West Point to
letter men are back on the squad this year, |

. . || meet the Army team and this is an added in-
and these with a goodly amount of material

f ; ay Gana feed ; | centive to each of the new men to do his
POU Rew eat, 8 S6yU andres \ ager egaton, | very best to make the squad. Those fresh-
make a formidable array. Davidson’s cham-

; ; | men, that are now showing up as good mate-
Pionship wrestlers of last season brought | rial are Reynolds, Hunt and Carson. With
much fame and honor to the school and from | :

; . |More training any of these three boys will
all appearances the prodigees of Captain | be a valuable addition to the squad,
Weems will

AoE accomplish as much if not more | The first meet of the schedule will be with
this winter. | the Concord team on the 7th of January, and
|the team will have a chance to try its
strength very carly in the season. After
this, the schedule is as follows:
State—Here, January 15th.
Concord—Here, January 31st.
Army—There, February 5th.
Duke—Here, February 13th.
V. P. I.—Here, February 19th.
Carolina—Here, February 26th.

As has been stated, the team will probably

No mention was made in the colums early
in the fall of the meritorious showing made
by several members of Davidson’s tennis |
team in the Southern Tournament held dur- |
ing the past summer at Greenville, S. C.|
Carr and McCutcheon, winners of the N. C. |
State Collegiate championsHip last spring, |
fought their way to the finals in the tourna- |
ment, bowing to two veterans. by a close |
score. J. T. Roddey, paired with a fellow- | : 5
townsman from Rock Hill, sprang the mine eet eonle other team besides West Point
price of the day by giving the ultimate cham- on the trip to the North; either the East
pions a close shave in the first.round. Bob | Side New York Y. M. C. A. or that of the
Crosland, ex-'28, | Baltimore Y. M. C. A.

was another Davidson |
entre and performed-creditably.

The try-outs will be held during this week,
pee ere Coach Weems announces, and competition is

Congratulations are forthcoming to J. L. | very keen among the various contestants as
Robinson, Junior, of Gastonia, who was re- | each is anxious to make a place on the team.
cently elected varsity manager of the Wild- |
cat football team for next autumn. “Jake” |
has worked hard since his freshman year and |
the honor comes to him deservingly. W. L.
Lingle and Rod McRae were the other Junior |

, : | interesting facts were brought out on both
assistants during the past year and should | cides,

come in for their full share of applause.| The dehate with V. P. I. was on the same

Both worked hard and energetically. Kelly, subject as the George Washington debate.

Hall, and Mauze, Sophomores, have been | The members of the V. P. I. team were
named assistants for the 1927 season.

Messrs. Coribelle and Guil. Mr. Coribelle

a oe was the first speaker, and Mr. Guil the
An ambitious move has been made on the | second,

part of several men, in attempting to or-| The George Washington University team
ganize a fencing team here at Davidson. A | has just completed an extensive Southern
number of Southern schools have such teams | tour on which they met sever colleges, con-
and at least one, South Carolina, has at- tending for both sides of the query stated
tempted to Sang cha mcct with Davidson. | above, During the spring and summer of
This is a move in the right direction and | 1927 they will go to Europe to meet forensic
should be followed up with a great display of teams from the leading colleges and univer-

interest. sities of Great Britain,

This debate closed the fall season for Da-
vidson. During the spring they will meet
five or six colleges, four of which will be
| included in a tour or the Northern states.
| The complete schedule for this trip will be
edists, left a considerable amount of manu- | announced soon and tryouts will be held soon
script material. It is upon this material, | after the mid-year examinations.
consisting of correspondence, variants to his |
published works, and original studies, and
revealing interesting information concerning
Racine’s life, environment, literary methods,
and religious belief, that Professor Watts
has based his paper.

The headquarters of all the visiting asso-
ciations will be located at the Harvard Union.
which will be open to the members of the
associations during their stay in Cambridge.
Philip Brooks’ house, in the College Yard,
will be reserved as a rest house for ladies.
The Longfellow house and many other ex-
-hibitions and institutions will be open to the
members of the associations at certain hours.

DAVIDSON DEBATERS

(Continued from page 1)

PROFESSORS WATTS AND
HARDING

(Continued from page 1)
Racine, the greatest of the French trag-

e

by Coach “Dutch” Hengeveld, before being
turned over to Coach “Monk.” Signals were
practiced for the first time Monday, also
scrimmage, plays, with the following tempo-
rary line-tip of the varsity squad: Wilson,
center; Anderson and MacCauley, forwards;
Harrison and Simpson, guards.

The squad is planning to return early after
Christmas to get in shape for their post-
holiday games. There will, in all probability,
be no cut in the squad until then. The others
who have been showing up well in practice
are Joe McConnel, Crawford, Dick Grey,
Lacy Hunt, Joe Hall, Monroe Gilmour, and
John Kugler.

In order to help practice and provide bet-
ter facilities for shooting goals, two new
backboards and nets have been fixed on the
sides of the gym. This will facilitate the
method of handling the large squads which
are being trained at present, and will also
aid a great deal in the development of the
team. This is the first time that so many
baskets have been. provided for the players.

A gale washes the mother-ship of the
Government's chasers ashore and leaves
the rum-runners unscathed — but the
wind never was mindful of man’s stand-
ards.—San Antonio Evening News.

These are the real “dog days,” not in
Summer; these are the days when they
enjoy themselves—the bird dogs in the

UNION THEOLOGI

Introducing to the readers of

Rev. J. GRAY McALLISTER, D.D., Litt. D., LL. D.
Professor of the English Bible

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

day and the hounds at night—The Ashe-
ville Citizen.

ft

EAT AT THE

ASTORLUNCH

SERVICE |

| THE BEST OF COOK-
ING
Charlotte, N. C.

CAL SEMINARY

RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

The Davidsonian

; chosen. Hunt, who tips the scales at about |
t
Carson, |
| DeArmon, and Hampton also played. con- | Charlotte \
No spectacular pel C ;
ompan
thews and Brohard showed much romise, | Transfer P y
and the former, especially, deserves Heer
able mention on any state-wide pick.
The frosh team has completed a season of | PHONE 298
questionable success, but a great deal of
likely material is going up to Coach Monk : e
for his 1927 yarsity, and it is a safe bet that BAGGAGE
some of the present “rats” will be holding! «
down jobs inthe places of departed Wildcats | AND TAXI]
when Doctor Charlie buries his rabbit feet SERVICE
on Richardson Field next fall. | ’
j
Planters appear to have felt the jar of | JAKE MARTIN, Prop.
the bumper in that bumper cotton crop. |
—The Louisville Times.
/ z = ——— :
Selby Ice Cream Co.
GOOD
(
}
| Statesville, N. C,
A
| e

. Splendid holiday> selections in
these fine Heidelberg - Wolfe
Weather Proof Knit Coats.

Smart, imported fabrics, well

tailored along 1926 lines. For

gifts and holiday wear, they are

unsurpassed.

One big special group for Col-
lege Men, $30.00.

STREET

MEN'S FLOOR

SECTION
Corio AS

Exclusive Agents in Charlotte for ‘‘Fashion Park’’ Suits

