“THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 31, 1926

=

Omicron Delta Kappa Numbers
All Campus Leaders on Rolls

Omicron Delta Kappa, the national leader-
ship fraternity, was founded at Washington
and Lee University in 1915. The local circle,
Delta, was established at Davidson in 1917.
Since that time, prominent alumni and. stu-
dents who have attained the highest position
in their respective fields of activity have been
initiated.

The fraternity was founded to create a na-
tional honor society, which would be signifi-
cant of campus leadership in any and all
branches of college activity; which, through
its local circles, would act as a clearing house
for the exchange of ideas; which would
practically mould college opinion (by virtue
of the fact that.its membership is composed
of the leaders from all interested groups) ;
and which would, by the exchange of ideas
at conventions, in the national publications,
and at sectional meetings, provide better in-
tercollegiate feeling and. understanding.

The local circle has initiated men this year
of the highest calibre, men that are repre-
sentative of Davidson and of the organiza-
tions in which they have sought the highest
position and have obtained it. T. S. Baker,
president of the student body, and star lines-

man on the Wildcat eleven for the last three |

years, is undoubtedly one of the most rep-
resentative men initiated this Last
spring he was elected to the presidency of
theAthletic Association, but when N. E,
Sappenfield was forced to withdraw from
school for half a term, due to an injury,
Baker was chosen to succeed him as leader
of the student body.

R. B. Parker, president of the class of °26,
has also made more than one notch for him-
self in the Davidson hall of fame. Besides
leading his class most successfully during the
past year, he, was also president of the Metro-
politan Literary Society, an inter-collegiate
debater, member of five honorary fraternities,
on the Honorary Fraternity council and
various other honors, too numerous to men-
tion.

A. H. Hollingsworth, Jr., president of the
Y,M. C. A. for the past year, has also been
a leader in more than this one activity. Be-
sides leading the “Y" through a most. suc-
cessful year, Hollingsworth has been on the
varsity debating team, winner of the Junior
orator’s medal, and chosen as the best orator
in the school to represent Davidson in the
peace oratorical contst. He is a member of
Phi Beta Kappa, and several other honorary
fraternities.

R. W. Graves, who has led his class for the
past two years in scholarship, is another

year,

whose activity has not been confined to one
field. He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa
and is national president of Sigma Pi Sigma,
honorary physics fraternity. He

was also

meinber of the student council, several other |

honorary fraternities, and seeretary of his
class.

Turning to the more athletic members of
the class and of Omicron Delta Kappa. G.
F. Laird’s name appears at the head of the
list.
ball and baseball teams for thre years, and
captain of the basketball team, his record
shines as one of the most brilliant of any
Davidson athlete for a number of years. He
was selected as the best all-around athlete
his Sophomore year at Davidson, by being
given the Norris trophy cup.

Another ‘Norris cup winner is H, Vance,
who has also made a brilliant athletic record
at Davidson, being a member of three var-
sity teams and being given the Norris trophy
cup for the past year.

F. W. Alford, captain of the baseball
team for the past season, one of the most
suecesstul experienced in a number of years,
has also proven his worth over again as a
haseball player.

“Red” Anderson, of the trick
team; is another worthy member of Omicron
Delta Kappa and noted athlete.

L.. B. Huie has made.a name for himsei?
during the past seasons of baseball and bas-
ketball, winning his letter in both sports. He
was also cadet major of the R. O. T. C. hat-

captain

talion and a member of Scabbard and Blade.

Two varsit¥ managers have their name on
the roll of the local circle, these being E. K.
Regen, football, and J. M. Garrison,
basketball. Regent is a member of, Phi Beta
Kappa, while Garrison is a member of the

of

“Y" cabinet and holds several other positions

of honor.

In the line of publications, H. L. Shaw,
Jr.. editor of the 1926 “Quips and Cranks,”
and a member of Phi Beta Kappa, as well
as an “intercollegiate debater, holds quite a
position of worth.

C. F. Smith, editor of’ The Davidsonian }

for the past year, is a member of O. D. K.
and is president of the Dramatic Club.
C. F. Monk, ex-editor of The Davidson

Many Classes
_Hold Reunions

Fourteen classes- of Davidson College
will have reunions at Davidson this year,
all of them to gather together tomorrow

at the alumni luncheon, Those returning

go back as far as 1861, but there will
really be no class organization until the
year 1876.

This class had 18 members in it when
it finished at Davidson. Today seven of
those are living, and of this number six
have definitely said they would attend,
according to W. F. Carter, of Mt. Airy,
president of the class. There is a pos-
sibility that the other surviving member
will come, making an unbroken chain.
It was recently broken when the death
of R. M. Miller occurred in Charlotte.

The men who will be here in this class
are Duncan Rose, Fayetteville, N. C.; Dr
A. M. Frazer, Staunton, Va.; Dr. E. M.

Summerell, Salisbury, N. C.; J. A. Tyson,
Memphis, Tenn.; Frank Watkins, Phila-
delphia, Pa., and W. F. Carter, president,
Mt. Airy, N.C.

Other classes having reunions are the
classes of 1861, 1866, 1871, 1876, 1881, 1886,
1891, 1806, 1901, 1006, 1911, 1916, 1921, and

1925.

0. D. K. is Installed at
Duke Saturday Evening

Four Davidson Men Represent Local
Circle at Services

J. FL Pinkney, D. G.. Wilson, W. H.
Branch and R. B. Parker were the rep-
resentatives of the Davidson chapter of
Omicron Delta Pappa at_thieimstallation
of Rho Circle of this fraternity at Duke
University on Saturday night, May 21st.

The Duke chapter is the only one in the
Carolinas, with the exception of the Da-
vidsonian chapter. Among the members
who were initiated into the organization
were the president of the student body,
captain of the football team, president of
the senior class, editor of the annual, and

A star member of the football, basket-_

)

head ofthe great butting committee, the

, president of the ies and the dean
lof religious education. An auspicious be-
Wetnnine Was apparent.

| Omicron Delta Kappa, national honor
|and leadership fraternity, is fast becom-
ing the most coveted honor in American
schools and colleges where it is located,

declares a recent issue of the Intercol-
legiate World. It has chapters in such
schools as Virginia,” Johns Hopkins.
Washington and Lee, Pittsburgh, Ala-

jbama, and William and Mary.

College Magazine, was also a leader and-a
member of the “D" club during the past year.

L.. L. Deck, business manager of the 1926
“Quips and Cranks,”

Court of Control,

was also judge of the

D. G. Wilson, vice-president of Senior
class and president of the Glee club, is a
prominent O, D. Kk,

Nick Sappenfield, ex-president of student
body, was one of the first members of 1926
to achieve this coveted: distinction.

|

Familiar picture of the tank

The R. O. T. C. unit beginning to pass in review

Local Military Unit

Finishes One of

Most Successful Years in History Here

The year just closed has been the most
successful in the history of R. O. T. C. at
Davidson College, whether viewed from the
number of students enrolled, the quality of
the work done, or the interest displayed by
the students. It has been a banner year in
every respect, and this success has been due
in a large measure to the enthusiasm and the
untiring efforts of the Professor of Military
Science and Tacties, Capt. George H. Weems,
and his excellent: staff, Capt. R. D. Daugh-
erty, Capt. J. W. Elkin, and Lieut, Re C,
Beckett.

The battalion, the student body, and the
college owe the men of the R.O. T. C. staff
a debt of gratitude. They are here only
temporarily, being detached from
duty for a limited time, but they promptly
absorbed the spirit of the college, displayed
a keen interest in every activity of college
life, and have ‘rendered valuable service in
many departments,

regular

Captain Weems has in three years built up
one of the best college wrestling teams in
the South. Captain Elkin has started along
the same line in boxing, and has also given
very good instruction in track for those} pre
paring to go to comp. Captain Daugherity
and Lieutenant) Beckett have the
rifle teams and have developed much interest
and uncovered real ability in this field, All
of the officers have served as judges for ath-
Also, in

coached

jletic contests on several occasions.
addition to giving their personal services,
they have been most accommodating in lend-
ing equipment to the Dramatic Club
‘other student agrganizations.

In the matter-of size, the battalion has ine
}ereased by 43 members over last year, the

and

‘total enrollment of this year being 455 as
‘compared to 412.for last year. Of the 455,
56 are in the advanced course.

On Wednesday morning, May 12, the final
formation of the battalion was held. At that
time the trophies and medals won during the
year were awarded and the Seniors and those
receiving awards received a parade led by the
Junior officers! Col. Wade H. Harris, editor
of The Charlotte Observer, was present and

Other
person of note present for the occasion were :
Captain Barbin, of Charlotte, instructor in
the National Guard; Kopas, of
Charlotte, instructor the engineer com
pany of the National Guard; Licutenant
Bryant, sixth Field Artillery, Fort Bragg ;
Capt. Reid Morrison, ex-captain of the Field
Artillery; Col. J. W. MacConnell, of David-
son, colonel in the Medical Reserve Corps ;

presented the trophies and medals.

Licutenant

ot

Secretary Clarence Kuester, of the Char
lotte Chamber of Commerce; and Prot, A.
Currie, of Davidson, who in behalf of the

Davidson facuyy, congratulated the winners
of, the awards and expressed his appreciation
of the work of the R. O. T. ©, Department.

The following awards were made:
U;
ford, commanding, a silver loving cup given
by the Scabbard and Blade for the best’ com
pany in the battalion; first platoon of “A”
Company, Cadet First Lieut. C. FE. Houston,
commanding, a loving cup given by Capt.
George H. Weems for the best. drilled platoon
in the battalion; Cadet Sgt. J. B. Webb,
medal given by, Capt. Reid Morrison,
Mooresville, N. C., for the best shot in the
gallery rifle competition; Cadet Sgt. H. B.
Arbuckle, Jr., medal given by the R. O. T. C.
Department for the best cadet in the Sopho-
more class; Cadet Sgt. G. G. Palmer, medal
for the Sophomore rendering the best service
‘to the military. department; Cadet Corp. J.
|F. McCrary, medal given by the Charlotte
| Chamber of Commerce for the best corporal
jin the battalion; Cadet Pvt. S. W. McGill,

8C” Company, Cadet Capt. B. Ratch-

of

vidson, for the Freshman making the highest
seore in the gallery rifle practice ; Cadet Pvt.
J. K. Cook, medal given by Stowe Brothers,
af Davidson, for the best shot on the rifle
range; Cadet Pvt. S. M. Watkins, medal
given by J. Hl. Carson for the best: student
in the military department from the Fresh-
man cliss..
the tourth squad, third platoon, “D™ Com-
pany, which won the squad competition and
are entitled to win bar pins given by the Hen-
derson Jewelry Company, of Davidson: C.
W. Harrison, T. C. Watkins, J. M. Sample,
1. C. Wadsworth, S. M. Watkins, and J. S.
Ervin, This is the squad commanded by
Corporal MeCrary. The following are mem-
hers of the rifle team and were given in-
signia furnished by Captain Weems: J.B.
Webb, A. W. Alexander, I.E. Brown, T. 1.
Short, and R. G. Abernethy. The following
members of the Senior class qualified in the

The following are members of

course in pistol markmanship and were given’

the insignia of their ratings Cadet Lieut.

CLR. MeCarty and Cadet Capt. G. W. Smith, »

expert; Cadet Captains 1. 1. Deck, J.-E.
Moore and G. G. Wilson, sharpshooters ;
Cadet Licutenants A. S. Jones, S. W. Moore,
and N.C. Meleod, marksmen,

The following members of the Senior class
have completed the four years of RR. O. T. ©.
work and will be awarded commissions in the
Reserve Corps at the graduating exercises
on Wednesday: Cadet Maj. LL. B. Huiet,
Cadet Captains L. 1. Deck, Bo UG. Ratehtord,

'G, W. Smith, J. KK. Moore, D. G. Wilson,
and B.T. Crayton; Cadet Lieutenants C.F.
Houston, A. S. Jones, H. Y. Alexander, We
DD. Cox, T.S. Baker, J. J. Karnhardt, S. W.
Moore, H. L. Vanee, T. B. Thompson, N.C.
McLeod, A. B. Claytor, and C.D. MeCarty.

The

following appointments and— assign-

ments in the Davidson College R.O. T. C.
Battalion are announced, effective at the
opening of school, September, 1926:

To be Cadet Major: G. R. Sims.

To be Cadet Captains: W. O. Puckett,
Company °D"; W. O. Green, Company "C";

G. Purcell,
jand; Ke V.
Short, Personnel

V.S. Broyles, Company “B"; T.
Company "A"; J. S. MacRae, |
Woodham, Adjutant; T. 1.
Adjutant.

To Cadet

he Lieutenants: R.A.
Brand, Company W.-I Davis, Com-
pany “A; T. 1. Anderson, Company “D";
DoM. Calhoun, Company “D"; J. C. Frier-
son, Companyt "C7; J. M. Farrell, Company
“BY; J. Ave King, Company “DY; J. W.
Keerans, Company C'"; J. B. Webb, Com-
pany "A": J. Bo Kuykendall Jr.
"CU; R. TL. Mellwaine, Company “Bo; R.
I.. Mitchell, Company “B"; J. Z. MeDaniel,

jand; TV. Uf. Hamilton, Band.

Ist

Company

To be Cadet 2nd Lieutenants: .C. C.
Murchison, Company “A™; T. G. MeCuteh-
con, Company “D"; J. W. Crinkley, Com-
A. Melver, Company “B"; S.
*;) G. H. Zimmerman,
Company “B73 F. Sel], Company “B";
MH... Shelby, Company "A"; H. S. Frier-
son, Company “C"; W, M. Treverton, Com-
pany “D"; W. AY Alexander, Company “D";
W. H. Kornegay,. Company “A”; A. H.
Copelan, Company “C"; F. K. Justice. Com-
pany “B".

peiny CG

Wall,

Company

K.

To be Cadet Ist Sergeants: H. B. Ar-
buckle, Jr., Company “C”; C. C. Trabue,
Company “D"; J. Lake, Company “A; W.:
B. Bradford, Company “B"; P. J. Garrison,
Band.

To be Cadet Plateen Sergeants :
Alexander, Company, “A”; J. S. McAlister, |
|Jr.. Company “B”; R. S. Lowrance, Jr.,|
Company “D"; J. M. Gudger, Company “C’”’; |
|R. S. Link, Jr., Company “C”; J. A. Ricks, |

A. W.|

Fraternities to Move

Off Campus Next Year

All Groups Will be in Private Homes
_ After This Year

Those fraternities which are still located
on the campus will have moved off by the
first of next year and several of those already
off will change their location during the
summer, . Following is the arrangement for
next year:

The Pi Kappa Phi chapter:has bought the
house now occupied by the Delta
fraternity.

Sigma

The Sigma Delta group will occupy the
Brady house in the upper ebd of town,

The Kappa Alpha fraternity will occupy
the Paisley house situated next to the Pais-
ley home.

The Pi Kappa Alpha men will occupy the
Williamson house on North Main street.

The Theta Upsilon Omega will occupy the
Cranford home on North Main street.

The Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Phi Gamma
Delta, Delta Theta Chi, and Pyramid Club
will occupy the same places in which they
are now situated. The Kappa Sigma group
have not definitely decided as to what change
they shall make.

Miss Charlotte Hunter has returned
from Agnes Scott College where she is

president of the rising Sophomore class,

also returned
She graduated

Miss Richards
from Converse last week.

Sophie

and was president of her class.

A. M.
O'Neal,
Company
W. A,

“Br:
G,

“pe; C. W. Taylor, Company
Smith, Jr. Company “D"; M.
Company "A"; P. W,. Walton,

“D's S. We. Vanee, Company "A"
Cathey, Company “¢

To be Cadet Color Sergeants and assigned
to the company set opposite their names for

drill when the colors are not required for
drill: J. M. Akers, Company “B"; G. B.
Hagood, Company “C™

To be Cadet Sergeant’s Guides: J.P.

Harmon, Company "A"; G. S. Brooks, Com-
"Ch WL, Grant, Company “D"; HL.
A, Frazer, Company "A"; J. W. MeLaurin,
Company "C"; C, O. Cathey, Company “B"
J.C. MeNeely, Company “B"; J. Hi. Wild-
man, Company “D"; P,P. Thrower, Com-
pany “D"; R.A. Thompson, Company °B";
D. O. Westbrook, Jr, Band; S. My, Withers,
Band.

Té be Cadet) Corporals, Company “A”
F. W. Ballard, E. S. Dunn, J. R. Covington,
RC, Corning, S. Y. Brown, R. 1. Brittian,
W. 1. Crawford, S. 1. Boyd. ©. Archie,
S. L. Black, J. K. Cooke.

To be Cadet) Corporals, Company “B"
R. O. Flinn, M. M. King, F. HL. Glenn, R.
Horton, R. R. Kane, R. FF. Hall, J. T. em-

pany

bry, N. T. Gilmoure, A. C. Kelly, H. A,
Knox, Ho By Jennings, R. 1. Kell.

To be Cadet Corporals, Company °C":
S. W. MeGill, W. M. Long, W. M. Mid-
“dleton, A. N. Myers, C. R. Lake, J. C. Proe-
tor, W. M. Powell, G. Grice, J. B. Moriarty,
R. P. Newell, J. 1. Pope, J. A. Long.

To be Cadet Corporals, Company “D":
S. M. Watkins, 1. B. Vaughan, L. C. Wads-

worth, VT. 1b. Ramsey, W. E. Woodward, R.

Whitley, Hl. HL. Worzell, Wo M. Regen, T.
C. Watkins, S. Wo Smith, Fo A. Ratehtord,
I. HL. Smith.

To be Corporals, Band: BR. M. Gant, ©. J.
Albright, B. HL. Geer, W. J. Wilson, K.P.
Maddox.

Top: Rifle range. Center: Baseball

medal given by Maj. L. B. Cralton, of Da- | Company “B"; R. G. Calhoun, Company | diamond. Bottom. Golf course.
