THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 4, 1926

t

Spring Golf Tournament to Begin This
Week With Thirty-Five Participating

The spring golf tournament will begin
this week to determine the members of the
team for this year. A number of men have
entered the tournament and in this way the
most representative and best team will be
selected. The qualifying rounds were played
during the last week. Due to the fact that
the course is not in its best condition right
at present no very low scores were turned in,

In all, 35 men have qualified for the three
flights of the tournament. The matches will!
be 18 holes each until the final rounds in
each of the flights. when the matches will be
extended to 36 holes. The winners of each
flight will be given some prize which will be
decided later. Each man entering the tour-
nament will pay a small sum which will go
towards buying the prizes for the winners.

The members of the golf team will be
picked from the men composing the first
flight. As each match is to be played, the
five men playing the best at that time will be
selected to represent the school. But the
men in the other flights will also be called
upon if they are’ playing as good or better
goli than those in the first flight.

Following is how the men have been pair-
ed for the first rounds :

First flight: McGill drew a bye, Martin
plays Earnhardt, Jones: plays Malloy, and
Tate plays Vaughn. ;

Second flight; Miller plays Baker, Love-
lace plays Solter, Shaddock plays Menzies,
Lawson plays Hall.

Third flight: Lyons plays MeCrary,
Burke plays Clarke, Alexander plays Press-
ly, Simpson plays Carroll, McAllister plays
Crawford, Wilkinson plays Erwin, Causey
plays Daniels, Wilson plays McCabe, Mur-
chison plays Storey, Strong plays’ Crawford.

All of these matches will be played off
before the last part of this week and the
other rounds will be played as soon as pos-
sible,

v ilioke- ae
Davidson Students

Attend I.R.C.Meet

W. A. Christian and A. H. Hollingsworth
were the Davidson delegates to the South-
ern Students Association of International Re-

DAVIDSON
FIVE YEARS AGO

Blacks Defeat Reds in

Second Game of Spring
Practice Last Saturday

Grey and Davis Score Touchdowns
and Allen Drop-kicks Field Goal

The second football game+of the spring
season last Saturday afternoon resulted in a
16-0 victory for the Blacks. At no time dur-
ing the game did the Reds seriously threaten
to score. Straight football was played by
practically both teams, a few passes were
tried but in the main unsuccessful,
Early in the first quarter a pass for 10 yards,
Wick Black to Kell, seemed to be a start
for a touchdown drive for the Blacks. How-
ever, the next pass that was attempted, Black
to Bohannon, for some 30 yards, rolled out of
the receiver's hands just as he was heading
for the goal line 10 yards distant. The ball
soon went over on downs and in a short time
Allen dropped back from the line and booted
a perfect field goal for the Blacks, the first
score of the game and the only one in the
first half.

Three freshmen started off for the Reds,
while the Blacks used six.
was center for the Blacks and Laws for the
Reds. Holmgreen was the best man the
fresh had in the line, while Kell held up the
honor of his class in the backfield. James,
for the Blacks, and Overton and Leggette,
for the Reds, did the punting of the first half
and most of ‘the second half.

Second Half

Lincoln, of the Blacks, kicked off to Jen-
nings, of the Reds, who fumbled the ball,
Davis recovering for the Blacks. The ball
seesawed back and forth in midfield for sev-
eral minutes, the Blacks retaining it for
the greater time as the Reds only had the ball
in their possession twice in the last half. In
the closing minutes of the third quarter Wal-
ter Davis, gor the Blacks, went six yards

were

Riges MeConnell

through the line for the first score of the
The quar-

Grey kicked extra point.
ter soon ended with the Blacks in possession
of, the ball.

game,

| fered as a prize a ten-pound can of Red Eye

In the last quarter both teams tried to
lations Clubs, at Brenau College, February secre, the Blacks succeeding as Dick Grey
25-28. Parker, the other delegate, was un- went 25 yards around left endfor a touch-
able to go. Thirty other leading Southern down,
universities and colleges were represented.

failed in his try for extra
pyint. The score stool at 16-0 in favor of
Prof. Wm. E, Dodd, of Chicago Univer® the Blacks at the close of the game.
sity; Lasker H. Bliss, of the U. S. Army
Staff, and C. B. Gosnell, of Princeton, were
among the speakers of the convention.
A heated debate on the World Court be-

Grey

Blacks (16) Position. Reds (0)
Rowellsessessecs ese |b] Deegurape pers Pinckney
[Bi COlt eae Vilar Arrowood

TH} . . s SGesceeeee Holmgreen
tween University of Alabama and Furman MeC IR ee : ee
was won by the former. Brenau¥ Riverside (0° ONN™ Sn---- == Ro aia ie ay ste amet
p . : . es Montes re ees RGR: Oe Bee King
and the Gainesville Chamber of Commerce eka NC RT Jennings
royally entertained the visitors. Several de- CoSe™ ¢4---777777> ace 8

; , Wearn
lightful social events were on the program.

: : , Overton

The next conference will be entertained a
by Agnes Scott and Emory. It will meet I_-------------- LH------- Leggette (c)
: : See tei SMa MGSeo soon ce 208 Geen Covington, R.

February, 1927.

Black, Wi (c)eu----FB-.-2---.--.-

Subs: Blacks—Grey for James, Harmon
!for Holmgreen, Carter for Lincoln, Dubose
for Carter, E. Smith for Mitchell. Reds—
the architect, and they puzzle him by their Campbell for King, S. Black for Nisbett, S.
queer actions. The main elements of com- Smith for Holmgreen, Watkins for Coving-
edy and the first field of action are focused ton, Campbell for King.
around the mistaken identity of Mr. Brown.
To further add to his bewilderment, Marion
mistakes him for Phillip, who in turn is
mistaken for Katherine; and Katherine be- ———
lieves him to be Mr. Saunders, a college ' (Continued from page 1) |
friend of Phillip’s. |the concert, the boys were entertained by the

Another thread of the story is found in Agnes Scott College Glee club under the di-
the agreement between Phillip and Aunt | rection of Mrs. Martha Johnston and Miss
Betty. The former agrees to give up yacht-|Helen Bates. Sunday was spent in Atlanta |
ing provided the latter will give up her cats. in the homes of some of the Presbyterian
The agreement takes place on the eve of a families there. The members of the club
yacht race and in order to help out Phillip, aided in the musical programs in several |
Katherine gets Marion to enter the race for churches and sang in the several choirs.
him under the name of Mr. Bob. She wins On Monday the organization went to
and holds Phillip to his promise of his yacht Greenville, S. C., where they gave a concert |
as a gift. Her identity is revealed and Phil- at the Greenville High School under the
lip offers himself in addition to his yacht, an | auspices of the Manhood club, a boys ’ or-
addition which is meekly accepted. |ganization. From there the club came to)

Mr. Brown is finally allowed to tell his | Charlotte on Tuesday, where they appeared |
business, and much to the surprise of all |at the Charlotte High School on Tuesday |
present, they discover their gross blunder. ‘night. On Wednesday morning they return- |
An apology is offered, and he replies that the | ed to the Hill. H
only request he has to make is permission to |

QUEENS DRAMATIC CLUB

(Continued from page 1)

» DAVIDSON COLLEGE GLEE
CLUB ©

leave. BULLDOGS TAKE SCRAPPY
The cast was as follows: CONTEST
Phillip Royson—Ann Fayssoux Johnston. ——_— |
Robert Brown, clerk of Benson & Co.— (Continued from page 1)

Noel Walker. Wilson (5)--------- ( Ciyspieteereee cs Reeder (2)
Katherine Rogers—Minnie Silverstein. Anderson (11)-----RG-_----- Weinberg (8)
Rebecca Luke, her old maid aunt—Pauline ! Simpson (4)------- LEG eee eS Seas Figg |

Owen. Substitutions: _ For Davidson, Harrison |
Marion Bryant, Katherine’s friend—Sara | for Huie, Huie for Harrison. For Citadel,

Ross, Sanders for Reeder, Reeder for Sanders.

Patty, Miss Rebecca's maid—Dolly Moore.
Jenkins, Miss Rebecca’s butler—Ethel
Braswell.

Foul goals, Davidson, 5 out of 8; Citadel, 1
out of 8. Field goals, Davidson, 16; Citadel,
19. . Referee, Hengeveld (Davidson).

Taylor Brothers, of Winston-Salem, of-

Tobacco to the student who composed the
hest organized Davidson yell.

Karl Lehman, Christian Endeavor organ-
izer, spoke to the students at the Y. M. C. A.
vesper services. He also spoke to the re-
cently organized C. FE. Society among the
students,

Golf has taken a strong hold on the ath-
letically inclined, and it is hoped that many
new members will be enrolled. The course,
though not perfect, is good enough to learn
on.

Chief of, Pelice Johnston has determined
to see that the law regulating the speed limit |
of automobiles through Davidson is enforced. |
A few Sundays ago he took the numbers of |
about 40 cars that were exceeding the speed |
limit. The citizens of Davidson stand be-
hind Mr. Johnston in his efforts, and it is |
hoped that the nuistance will soon be abated. |

|

Davidson students are to have a shave in!
the relief work among the prison camps. |
The “Y" Cabinet pledged a sum for the stu- |
dent body, the amount to be raised among the |
students.

Davidson lost to University of Virginia,
14-0; defeated State, 16-0; Roanoke, 20-0;
Furman, 46-14; Wofford, 32-0; Clemson,
33-0. Carolina defeated Davidson, 10-6; Ga.
Tech, defeated Davidson, 9-0.

: LIBRARY NEWS

Miss Shaw has recently changed the
system of keeping the reading room of
the library. Heretofore, the, magazines
have been bound in covers and placed on
the tables. They were often covered up
by -the boys reading newspapers and
lence Was inconvenient to the students.

Now, the magazines are placed in a
cabinet and are more easy to obtain than
heretofore. The titles can easily be seen
by anyone choosing magazines. Further-

PII rrr rrr rrr rrr rrr

ARTCRAFT THEATRE -

MOORESVILLE, N. C.
“HOME OF GOOD PICTURES”

Thursday, March 11---Thank You,” a Fox feature.
One of John Golden’s mists. Four years as a road show

and one year in‘'New York City at movie theatre.

Friday, March 12---‘‘Wild Horse Mesa,” starring

Jack Holt, a Paramount feature.

Admission: 10 and 25 cents.

more, this adds much to the general ap-
pearance of the reading room. The cab-
inet is by one ofthe doors and in a con-
venient position.

Miss
present the covers will be left off the

Shaw announces that for the

magazines. However if the magazines
are damaged in any way, it will neces-
sitate the covers being replaced. If pos-
sible, the magazines will be placed in al-

phabetical order on the shelves after

reading so that the table may be left en-
tirely for reading.

ype

Cra A Ale
, : y A

¥,

One of the power amplifier stages of tne
world's first super-power transmitter

The World’s
Loudest Voice

Antenna of super-power transmitter

From the studio of WGY in
Schenectady, six miles from the
developmental station, there |
may be controlled a great
number of transmitters, one cf
which is the first super-power

transmitter in the world.

WGY, together with its associ-
ates, KOA of Denver and KGO
cf Oakland, is the General Elec-
tzic Company’s assurance to

tie American public that racio
L-oadcasting shell be main-
tained upon the highest
stancards.

A new scrics of G-E advertisc-
ments showing what electricity
is doing in many fields will be
sent on.request. Ask for book-
let GEK-1.

GENERAL ELECT

ELECTRIC COMPANY,

GENERAL

On the roiling plains cf South Schenectady, in
several scattered buildings, is a vast laboratory for
studying radio broadcasting problems. Gathered
here are many kinds and sizes of transmitters, from
the short-wave and low-power sets to the giant
super-power un‘t with a 50- to 250-kilowatt voice.

Super-power and simultaneous broadcasting on
several wave lengths from the same station are
among the startling later-day developments in
radio. And even with hundreds of broadcasting
stations daily on the air throughout the land, these
latest developments stand for still better service
to millions cf listeners.

aly five years ci, yet radio broadcasting has
developed frcm a laboratory experiment into a
mighty industry. And alert, keen young men have
zaped the rewards.

Dut history repeats itseif. Otner electrical develop-
ments will/continue to appear. And it will be the
college man, with broad vision and trained mind,

whowill be ready to'serve and succeed. |
-18D8
RIC
EW YORK

SCHENECTADY, N
