THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 7, 1926

7

Monk Younger Grins As
Prophecy is Fulfilled

Predictions of Hard Game With
Presbyterian College Come True

Monk Younger, head coach of the David-
son Wildcats, is smiling over the fact that
his prediction of a hard game with Pres-
byterian College last Saturday came true,
contrary to expression of opinion over the
state.
have an easy victory, but the North Caro-
lina Presbyterians found it difficult going.
Coach Younger can now say, “I told you so.”
“The fumble in the third quarter.broke the
spirit of the team,” said Coach Monk, “and
after that the boys did not play the same
brand of ball as exhibited in the first period,”

Davidson’s coaches never anticipate an
easy Game, and are always preparing for a
surprise from any team.
quently going to drill their men as hard this
week for Guilford as for any team in the
state, realizing that the game with the N. C,
Techmen is the following Thursday at Ral-
eigh. They will probably continue giving the
men new plays during the week in prepara-

“Since 1868
The Home of Good Shoes”

The Best
Showing of
Young Men’s
Footwear

We've Ever Had

REAL quality --- Gilmer-

Moore quality---here at
home. Shoes for men who
appreciate better value---

snappy stuff---and only

$5 $6
GILMER-MOORE CO.

CHARLOTTE

Shoes Luggage

Many thought the ‘Wildcats would!

They are conse- |

‘Book by Davidson

Inception Meeting Held Woods Chosen Head
| Professor Issued by York County Alumni of Reporters’ Club

The release has just been announced Thirty Alumni in Vicinity of Rock

of a book by one of Davidson's most pop-
ular and ablest professors. Frazer Hood,
Ph. D., Litt. D., is the author of “Every-
man’s Insurance,” a book covering com-
pletely every type of insurance.

Published for the average reader, this
book carefully technical terms
that would cause many readers perplex-
ment. Dr, Hood has treated the subject
in such a way that.the terms used are
familiar to all. In this book, life, fire,
marine, casualty, and the other miscel-
laneous forms of are com-
pletely treated and the entire scope of in-
surance is reviewed,

avoids

insurance

This is by no means Dr. Hood's first
appearance in print. He is well known
as the author of the sketch of Judge Ma-
lone’s life in “Selected Poems of Walter
Malone.”

Dr. Hood is at the head of the psychol-
ogy department at Davidson and has
just returned from a year’s study in Eu-
rope. He has traveled very extensively
and is one of the most popular profes-
sors at Davidson.
is published

“Everyman's Insurance”

by D. Appleton and Company.

tion for the difficult games that remain on
the schedule.

The secret practices will continue, even for
the Guilford game. The Wildcats used only
football in the game with P. C,
‘and Monk Youngef had a number of plays
/up his sleeve’ that he could have uncorked
lagainst the Clinton team if the Blue Stock-
ings had scored and the Wildcats would have

straight

Rock Hill Organize New
Association

b
PROMISE SUPPORT
Second of Alumni Associations to be,
Organized Recently
The York County Alumni Association
College had
week when approximately |

of Davidson its ineeption
meeting last
30 Davidson men representing 18 classes
gathered at the Chamber of Commerce
Hall for banquet meeting. Officers

were elected: Oran Crawford, president;

a

Harry Ruff, secretary; and Ben Dun-
lap, treasurer.
Oran Crawford, newly elected presi-

dent of the association set forth the aims
that he hoped to be realized, stating that
the local association would endeavor to
bring
the alumni of the county into closer and

send good students to Davidson,
each
other, and attempt to have a Davidson
football game city
each year.

more intimate relatiomship with

scheduled for this

York County is the second organiza-
tion of a net-work of local organizations
to be perfected by the excéutive secre-
tary of the entire South. The first was
organized at Greensboro, Tuesday, Sep-|
tember 2tst.
cause of the many contributions it has

This section was chosen be

made to Davidson.

York County has sent to Davidson
many men during the history of the
Presbyterian Institution, but there has

‘W. S. Woods, of China, was elected
Reporters’ Club, at a
meeting of that organization last Tues-
MelIlwaine and W.
with
W.S.
Gordon, of Hamlet, N. C., was president,
but was recently appointed on the staff
of The Davidsonian as Assignment Editor,
membership in the club being automati-
cally curtailed.

president of the

day morning.“ R. H.

T. Davis) were also nominated

Woods winning on the first ballot.

Among other ditsinetions which Woods
has won while in college are, member-
ship in Gamma Sigma Epsilon, honorary
fraternity, Manager
of football in 1925, and ranks third in his
He is a member of
the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity.

B. A, Wilson, of Ne = Gi

vice-president of the organization, with

chemical Assistant

class in scholarship,

Marion, is
rT. Jones, of El Paso, Texas, secretary-
C. Murchi-
Austin, Lare-
Covington, Raeford, N.
Davis, Lancaster, S. C., John
Ripley, Tenn. A. N,
mineral Wells, Texas, J. L. Ely, Jasper,
Ma. 1. Wadsworth, Live Oak, Fla, Ty-

treasurer. Members are, C.
son, Columbia, S. C.. H. M.
doy fdxa's; We 1,
GeeaWiest;

Morarity, srown,

ree Dillard, Greensboro, N. CC. W. R.
Weaver, Hickory, N. C, C. R. Lake,
Greenville, Miss, R. R. Kane, Atlanta,

Ga. J. W. Gwin, Lexington, Miss. R. H,
Meclwaine, Japan, J. P. McKnight, Shel-
by, N.C, A.M. Sparrow, Ransonville, N,
C.J. G. Wharton, Smithfield, N.-C.. W.
B. McQueen, Raeford, N. C.

Harry TH. Wyman, class of '23, who is

PI KAPPA ALPHA WINNER |

(Continued from page 1)
a jolly good fellow; he is the sort of a man
Davidson is proud to glaim.” Harper played
in the orchestra for four years,,sang in the
Glee Club for three, was secretary of the
“Y” cabinet, on the varsity track team, and
Supervisor and Critic of the Phi Literary
Society. He served on the staff of the maga-
zine and was exchange editor for one year.
He was not a member of a Greek-letter fra-
ternity while at Davidson. ©

The British Museum has an income of
only $3,700 a year from its permanent en-
dowment.

spend
$100,000,000 each year, according to Brit-

American visitors in London

ish estimates. :

‘

| PRINTING |
Y i

x
x

PRINTING

When in need of first-class job

z

y
x
hy
ry printing of any description, see

x
x
x
VERNON S. BROYLES

QUICK SERVICE
BEST PRICES

§
x
:
i

Agent for
Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

RRARRAAARRRRRRRAKRKKAKKAKAAA

THEMES
ESSAYS

STANDARD | Y PING
BUSINESS LETTERS

OUTLINES

T. G. McCUTCHEN

10 Georgia

DAVIDSON

“WHERE YOU SEE THE BIG ONES”

THEATRE

| MONDAY AND TUESDAY
Corinne Griffin in “Into Her Kingdom”

WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY

Gloria Swanson in “Fine Manners”

FRIDAY

Dorothy Mackail in “Sudway Sadie”
__ SATURDAY :
Ken Maynard in “The Unknown Cavalier”

for the next five years, has sent out

‘through the alumni secretary, letters to
ithe 220 men who were members of the.

class of ’25 as freshmen.

George W. McFadden, class of 1808,
and who is now at St. Louis, Mo., in a
recent letter to the alumni secretary ex-
pressed much interest in the work of the
college. In glancing over the alumni

records, it is shown that there are as

many as fifteen Davidson men within a!

'radius of a hundred miles of St. Louis. |

Efforts are:being made to bring these!
together for a banquet. |
It will be of much interest to the stu- |

dents and friends of Joe Craig, ex-’27, to. ~

see the following announcement: |

Mr. land Mrs. Alfred Gregory Galbraith |

announce the marriage of their daughter |

Ardath Louise
to
Mr. Joseph Oliver Craig
on Saturday, the third of July

one thousand nine hundred and twenty-

six

New York City
At Home :
501 West 111th Street
New York City

had to exert a desperate effort to win. been a drop during the last few MACE In at present in Charleston, S.C. writes a | (@=========2 i
eS ROMA res ROD order to get in touch with all Davidson very interesting letter to the alumni see- $1 25 $1.25 H
Ebony railroad ties so hard that it is men in the county, it was’ decided 'O/ retary in which he expresses the wish a) II I § ti ee
q ees ; } ‘ * have a banquet twice a year—one during RoR ae Ride Ute ; j H
necessary to bore holes’ through them ie halla and até silat te ie decided es an Tce a ae ae ns Co egiate ta lonery H
before spikes can be driven are used on by the excctitive committee i a ‘i (6 ae Data ; Ae Place your order today for H
icertain divisions of the Kansas City, “Pr : et ; reeroieg neat py eee ae iat BU your personal name and ad- |
Mexico and Orient Railway in Mexico, : UTA at the mecting were: rot. jJ./the a EL seeretary Is p UTE a tae to dress stationery printed, also
C. Bailey, of the Greek Department;! that city for the purpose of forming an : ]
Ey MUN amen aera: Ernest Milton, Alumni Secretary, who organization there. The following is al} with college hl SIZE: 100
James Harvey Patton, '25, has returned presented the present status of David-) part of Wyman’s letter: De Oey le Se
| to his old home town, Sweetwater, Tenn... son and. its needs, and outlined the fue) “Aq! Davidson men secin closely bound large sheets. ; envelopes
| Where he has entered the wholesale ture plans of the general alumni organi-| with some congenial tie and to be well NOTE SIZE: 200 note
| Srocery business, zation and R. H. Mellwaine, manager of fitted for congenial association together, sheets, 100 envelopes.
| BOE PPS NT LP LAE SELDEN ithe Wildcat football team. If we could form this club on a social Stock is heavy 24-lb. Colle-
| Neil A. Currie, '26, has entered the in- The following is a list of those pres- basis with frequent ‘feasts’ our hunger giate Bond. | Prompt service
surance field with the Equitable Life ent: Dr. W. G. Stevens, H, L. Simril, A.) for many of the old pleasures would be and your satisfaction guaran-
| Insurance Company at their offices in| L. Blake, J. B. Reid, W. M. Gracey, Oran | filled. We would at the same time estab- teed.
| Birmingham, Ala, Crawford, J. D. Seed, Ben Dunlap, W, L./ lish an‘ atmosphere that would radiate STUDENTS’ STORE
| Roddey, H. EF. Ruff, C. L. MeMurray, Dr. throughout our circle and put a sweet DAVIDSON COLLEGE
| Frank Strait, D. G. Wilson, T. L. John- savour for Davidson’s traditions of con- A ined 6s ” 1
} ¥ uthorized ‘‘Collegiate Stationery” Dealers
| OPPONENTS’ SCORES son, Ben Fewell, J. Roy Barron, Dave duct and ideals in this community.” {yaks yt
Crawford, Frank Crawford, Ed Fewell, f = s
N. C. State --- 0 Buren eameeaeares| 30 Jr, W. L. Smith, Dr. Dave Biggar, and) f : : z A }
oer as a Ss ------ _ A. M. Hurd. Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach
Ms eran cunteel sae ; and Goldsmith ;
Hampd’n-Sidn’y 0 V. P. I. -..----30 i
Carolina .---- 0 Tennessee .---- 34 A l ° Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.
| Dukes sc oe2 7 Richmond —_--- 9 umnl Notes | , CHARLOTTE, N. C.
S
eocccccccccccccce S. R. McKee who was president of the (a >
class Of 1888 recently wrote to the office D i cl ; P , Alt ;
of the alumni secretary and joined the en eanin ressin ering
RATES ‘ Loyalty League. McKee has been for y) 5 oO y g, g; g,
‘ some time and is at present president of a ( WHO'S WHO in service and quality ?
the Binghdm School. ;
O. M. Anderson, ‘08, writes that he will . ’
aes a seduction NER
‘be back for several days at home-com- Reductio CITY DRY Cc LEA E S
|ing at Davidson. He says he hasn’t been N.C
> | : pists ‘ on MOORESVILLE, N. C.
POETRY back to the Hill since the day of his |
OR WHAT YOU HAVE | graduation and he is looking forward to | a I C K ETS ! Ask any customer--24 hour service
| home-coming,. ‘ VU.
J. M. Hendrix, ’25, president of his, Branch Mgr. Harllee Bordeaux. Branch Office, 21 Rumple
es | Class its first year, and alumni president yy

The

focercccccccccococccoccccccoocone sc ccooooooee ese oooooeenecesoooUpevecoooooeeesesoole
4

OR | HOPHONTC
VICTROLA

All Models in Stock---Easy Terms

ANDREW’S

New :

The Finest Musical Instrument
in the World

Prices $95 to $1,000

NEW RECORDS

EVERY FRIDAY

MUSIC STORE |

CREDENZA, $300.00

213 N, Tryon St.

Charlotte, N. C.

