THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 13, 1926

Flashes of Action Shown at Davidson
Theatre Under Auspices of R. O. T. C.

On iu baaeeany- afta afternoon, May 5th, the
R. O. T, C. unit of Davidson College put
. ona war picture at the Davidson theatre for
the special benefit of the R. O. T. C. stu-
dents.’ The title of the picture was “Flashes
of Action.”

The management of the theatre generously
co-operated with Captain Weems in obtain-
ing this picture by charging him no rent for
the theatre but only the expense in showing
the picture. A small admission fee of 15
cents was charged to cover this expense. As
there was a large crowd present to see the
picture, a surplus was taken in over the ex-
pense, which will be used in buying insignia
for men on the rifle team.

The main picture was preceded by a pic-
ture of the West Point cadets in various
marching and calisthenic exercises. Flashes
of Action begins with a picture of the Amer-
ican troops departing for France and ends
With their*return to the United States. " The
main part of the picture gives scenes of thé
American soldiers in action. It shows long
lines of advancing foot troops with here and
there casualties caused by a bursting/shell or
well-directed machine gun fire. Besides the
scenes depicting infantry advances there are
scenes showing heavy American artillery in
action, poison gas attacks from the enemy
lines, a naval fight with a hostile submarine,
hand grenade skirmishes, and, in one case,
a road covered with German dead, victims of
deadly American fire.

This picture was also put on by the Da-
vidson-Cornelius Post of the American Le-
gion for the purpose of raising funds for
disabled veterans of the World War.

On Sunday afternoon, May 9th, memorial
services were held by the Davidson-Cor-
nelius Post of the American Legion at the
Davidson Cemetery and later at the cemetery
in Cornelius.

A squad of Davidson cadets, under the
charge of Capt. L. L. Deck, headed tke pro-
cession ‘from the Presbyterian Church to
the cemetery. After a short service was
held and the graves were decorated by the
Girl Scouts, a salute was fired and taps was
blown by the bugler.

The squad was then taken to Cornelius,
where the same céremony was repeated.

At Wednesday's drill, 14 medals. and two
cups were awarded to various men and units
of the Davidson battalion. of the Reserved
Officers’ Training Corps that have become
distinguished in some line during the past
year. Three trophies were awarded through!
the generosity of the alumni of Davidson |
College and other friends of the institution.

HIS USUAL PLEA

Judge—“You are charged with shoot- |

ing squirrels out of season.”

McCarty—“Your honor, I shot them in
self-defense,”

DAVIDSON
THEATRE

MON. AND TUESDAY

“We

in

Moderns”

Coleen Moore

- WED. AND THURSDAY

“The Wilderness Woman.”

Aileen Pringle. First

National
FRIDAY

Red LaRoque in “Brave
Heart,” a football story

SATURDAY

A good Western. Comedy
every day.

Ministerial Band
Hears Mrs Vowels

Mrs. Guy R. Vowles was the speaker at
the Ministerial Band meeting in Shearer Hall
on last Sunday afternoon. Tom Hill and
Charles McCrae led the meeting in prayer,
after which Don Stewart read the scripture
lesson taken from’ Luke 2:46-52, and Joha
19 :25-30. Mrs. Vowles then favored the
a jy ; . members with a vocal number, “The Cradle
Saturday night at the movies Brown of ” preter f . ny}

; seh ies Song.” Dr. Vowles closed the meeting with
Harvard will be shown. This is classed as ae
‘ R ne a prayer.
the best picture of college life ever produced.
It isa Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer production
adapted from Rida Johnson Young's cele-
brated stage play by A. P. Younger

Brown of Harvard to be
Shown at Gym Saturday

This Picture Rates Above the Mid-
shipman and Classmates

In speaking on a Mother's Day subject,

rs. Vowles said that her first feeling waS
one of gratitude to Jesus Christ through
whom a richer field for womanhood had been
opened upx. She said that no nation rises
higher than 1%s womanhood and that nowhere
has woman been so highly
America,

This picture is typical of college life, full
of football, house parties, romance, and regu-
lar college life. William Haines as Tom
Brown plays the leading part. Co-starring
with him are Jack Pickford, Mary Brain.
Mary Alden, and Frances. X. Bushman, Jr.
This pictufé is taken from the campus of
Harvard and again a movie, star can say
that he went through college in an hour.
The many pranks played on Tom as a iresh-
man add humor to the picture. His struggle
on the football squad is rewarded at ‘ast by
getting into a game. The rivalry of Willism

exalted as

mothers’ than the children of any preceding
generation,” stated Mrs. Vowles. “All
periods of change involve readjustments and
naturally the change in womanhood involves
readjustment.” She said that the mother
illustrates perfection because of the place
she occupies and that we learn more about

Haines and Jack Pickford over the hand of reality through -our mothers than: in any
Mary Brain leads the romantic trend to the other way. :
movie. Mrs. Vowles spoke of Jestis’ experience

in the temple when Mary took Him to task
after ‘searching for Him for quite a long
while. “Mary restored a world of uplift and
hnor to mothers,” she stated. And then she
mentioned how thoughtful Christ was of His
mother—even in the agony of the cross. She
said that we owe three debts to mothers.
One of gratitude to the mothers of yester-
day; one of assistance to those of today; and
that of protection to the mothers of tomor-
row. Saying that every man loves one wom-

Brown of Harvard is to Harvard what
The Midshipman is to Annapolis and Class-
mates to West Point. It is the only picture
ever produced that shows the life cf one of
the “Big Three.” Of the three Brown cf
Harvard is classed as the best, showing more
of the’ social side of college life.

RECENT ISSUE OF THE
CHAMELEON

( Continued from page 1)

in)

“The children of today have better trained)

es
__—_———————

Central Cafeteria

on the Square

an, she gave an exhortation to hontr mothers |
by love. “One man,” she stated, “said that |
life without love is impossible.”
In concluding, Mrs. Vowles read the poem
“To Mother,” by Nancy Hood Reed:
If I could return to my mother
«l gift for her kindness to me,
“or sacrifice, love, and devotion,
For the things she has taught me to be,
For the pictures whieh hang on memory's
wall :
Which she paints with motherly care,
For the heavenly chords of love and life
Which she sang that I might hear.
I'd ask the stars for their twinkle,
The birds for their happy sweet song,
I'd gather the fragrance and blush of the
rose |
And the first bright tints of the dawn,
I'd ask a smile from an angel,
A strain from the choir above
I'd tie them up with affection’s cords |
“And present them to her with my love. — |

and

Brown’s Restaurant

17 S. Tryon St.

The Best Places to Eat

CHARLOTTE N.C

NONE TOO SMALL NONE TOO LARGE

We Want Yeur Account Regardless of Its Size

The Commercial National Bank

Charlotte; N. C.

I, W. STEWART Cashier and Trust Office’
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Trust Officer
T.S. McPHEETERS, Acsistant Cashier

-

Capital, Surplus, Ete., Over $1,200,000.00

Ri A. DUNN, President Wa
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President

ing everything established just another ,

form of intellectual egotism?

Warren Ogden’s “Dialogue” deserves |
especial mention for the original way in
which he treated a very delightful theme ;
and the essay “Gods and Demons,” writ-
ten by one who assumes the nom de
plume of “L’Iconoclaste"’ but whose very
style belies his identity, an ingenius.
bit of satire. J. H. Caligan in his “In-
dian Song” failed to mount the heights that
have been his since he assumed the lead in
poetic expression here, but his poem was
nevertheless well worth reading. Jimmie
Wharton added a star to his literary
crown with his entrancing little sketch
“White Clouds and Youth;” and the dis-
tinctly American Mercury idea of a “Sa-

Was

P, A.

“difficult.to see, especially since this was

harana” won no little praise from read-
ers of the magazine, although it is highly
| doubtful that a librarian, who has failed
/to preserve the Davidson College Mag- |
|azine since 1921, will find any particular |
‘reason for adding The Chameleon to her
growing list of antiques, .in the library.
Just why Wood Brown, for it was cer-
tainly Wood, insisted on signing his name
to the “Cinquain” as “Max Provost”

1s

iby far the most individual product of his
in the magazine.

| Robert Brittain with his “Sonnet” was
\less delightful than in his play “Voices.”
(Perhaps this is due, however, to a pre- |
dominance of Babbitism among his crit-
ics.) Other contributors deserve
tion, particularly those of C. F. Smith, H

iM. Austin, and that new but entirely sat- |
isfying humorist “Ometa Goos.” |
| The magazine rivals in its contents tthe |
best that has been published at David-
son in many years, in-spite of the fact

that it was far too much the product of a
certain group of -:tudents, whose vehe-
ment attacks on a prevailing Babbitism
(how many times was that wo:d used in

the issue?) at Davidson bespeak an ut-

ter disgust of other lesser mentai lights |
and a self-centered claim for the title of
“intelligensia.”

nien- |

and a tidy red tin

Slow or fast, no
SUMMARY OF GAMES

(Continued from page 2)

Davidson 4 Quantico Marines ------ 7

Davidson 19 Oak Ridge Institute ~--.13

Davidson 6 Lenoir-Rhyne College -- 5,

Davidson 9 University of N. Car. --- 8}

Davidson 9 Salisbury League ------- 14} today.

Davidson 2 Duke University -------- 13)

Davidson 10 Ni GiState S222 oe2scs 8

Davidson 11 Nic@a Statens sole 2

Davidson 9 Furman University ----- 10

Davidson 0 Clemson College ~------- 9

Davidson 2 Guilford College ~------- 11

Davidson 7 Virginia Military In. ---. 5

Davidson 2 Washington & Lee ----- 11

Davidson 10 Roanoke College -------- 1

Davidson 12 Elon College w---------- 11 1926, B. J. Reynolds Tobacce

Davidson 5 Duke University ------- 8 . Winston-Salem, N.C. :
Games won—8. Games lost—8.

pipe- eeves
for a loss

AND the bigger they are, the harder they fall,
as Shakespeare or somebody said. You can
prove this beyond question with a jimmy-pipe

Anywhere. As a matter of fact, tackling pipe-
grouches is P. A.’s regular business.

Cool and sweet and fragrant, P. A.’s wonder-
ful smoke comes curling up the pipe-stem,
filling- your system ‘with a new brand of pipe-
pleasure. You smoke—and smile! For the first
time in your life, you’ve found the one tobacco
that scales to your blueprint of bliss.

never bites your tongue or parches your throat.
Those important items were taken care of in
the original plans by the Prince Albert process.
Get yourself a tidy red tin of this friendly tobacco

_ PRINGE ALBERT

—no other tobacco is like it!

throws

of Prince Albert. Any time.

P.A. is sold Ga
tidy red tins, and helf.
pound tin Umidorss and
pound crystal-glass humidors
with sponge-moistener top.

here in

And always with every bit of
bite and parch removed by
the Prince Albert process.

matter how you feed it, P. A.

