THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 21, 1926 . 7

DAVIDSON WILL MEET |

3 coninaa Ton yan oS A L U M N I N E W S l Professional Notices

Wake Forest wants revenge for last year’s |
tie, and a clear road to the state title, and the |

Wildcats must defeat the Deacons to be a W. ll K Al ; R Al 4 L l | i :
strong contender for the championship. | el-N\nown umn | owan umnt to oya ty League to DR. VANCE HASTY
The probable line-up is as follows: Married Last Week) Form Association Call for Members petting en
Wake Forest Position Davidson poets | ° ; ene we eal Ki sonal Bank B ee ee
—_—_— me cial jationa a ulldin;
Cooper 2. -cicii, 2 LE PassoESs Arrowood; A wedding of great interest to society on Tuesday Night The Loyalty League, recently organized STATECVIEEE It C: :
Phelps Sebeerscouds leResuacees Bohannon circles in North Carolina, Georgia and Vir- : Serer Ia: by the Alumni Associaion, needs the PCat eebaaamrsae! hd bd “ier”. eee eee
Weir BuseEseuna awe IbGes oo ceceeess Boggs | ginia as well as Davidson alumni, was that of } he Davidson alumni of Rowan county |tive support of every Davidson alumnus. | 3 e ;
Woodward ----.-- Gyetues a McConnell) George W.:Mauze to Miss Mary Elsie “"° PIAA Cte ncep yon Or ei A eaO- | Dhis “inter organization has only two
Persons ---------- RG ope Mitchell) Brown, on Saturday evening, the 15th of Oc- | ciation in that county. The organization! hundred and twenty-five members of | eee
Emmerson --..~-- RT----------- Ritchie tober, at 8:30 o'clock, in the First Baptist | will take place next Tuesday night, at] three thousand five hundred alumni. The 3
Riley. cacsucolcseos 150 Oper ee Pinkney | Church of Charlotte. The bridegroom's | 2" alumni supper in Salisbury. There|college as an institution needs the moral DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN
Rackley ---------- QBacleze Sappenfield | father, Dr. J. Layton Mauze, conducted the #T° approximately seventy-five alumni in} and financial assistance of every alumnus apie
Bupeeneds Leggette | ceremony, The bridegroom is a graduate of | this county, among whom are some very |if it is to make any progress in the new | ebcbuashtade = th“ ercaphatin
Pe eae eee Grey| Davidson in the class of ’23. While he was dela: men, eee program of expansion. The initiation) $ phones: Of igae wines Sued
1 Oy 2 fakes ss MAE Wells. in college he was best known on the basket- The matter of organizing an associa- fee of the new league is only a dollar, eH pene ET

(tion has been discussed for a good while,}| which can be easily afforded by all
which discussion has resulted in the] The present enrollment is 640 students,
supper which is to be given in Salisbury.] while more than three hundred were’

| This will be a large association and will] turned away this year on account of lack % PRINTING
be, according to all indications, one of}of class room and dormitory facilities

x

:

yy
ie
e
ie
a
0
:
iJ
a
e
e
J
ie
a
’
:
a
J
t
J
u
a
J
\
ty
a
)
i
t
a
a
i)
a
)
a
4
a
ai

RILILILILILUL NHL TILLMAN MMI,

: Every minute $1104. worth of property is con-
| sumed by fire and every day 42 persons burned
to death with 46 injured. Be careful and help

the most prominent of Davidson alumni] There is pressing need for the completion
organizations, The Davidson alumni in]of the New Chambers building, and for
Rowan county have always been loyal! the building of a new and fireproof dor-
and the step they are taking in perfect-|mitory, in order to care properly for
ing an organization will mean a lot to] students here now and those who will
Davidson Colege and other alumni as-]c¢ome in the next few vears. A new Y.

When in need of first-class job

stop this awtul waste. printing of any description, see

McALISTER CARSON, Mgr. Insurance Department VERNON S. BROYLES

INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

' sociation, M. C. A. building with swimming pool

Other Davidson alumni are planning and ; - i i A
a i i i all other modern equipment is sore-
to organize associations in their various ly needed, OSs Sao a
é BEST PRICES

Vicinities. i : | Considering all that Davidson has done
One of the most promising situations is for her alumni, it certainly is not asking
in Charleston, 5, C. The alumni secre- too much for them to keep faith with Agent for

—
DON’ tary has received numerous letters lately her, |
db MI S S r H E S E from Charleston and the immediate vicin-| Now, more than ever before, loyal sup- Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.

ity in which much interest is shown. porters are needed‘in carrying on the
Charlotte, N. C.

es . .
Drop In Soon and Hear Them General interest seems to be aroused and great work of the college, and all alumni

d

Af

ARRARARARAAAAAARAAAARARRRARAARARE

Rae

an association promises soon to have an are urged to dotheir part. WMMNNNUNRRRNRRe
Why Do Ya Roll Those Eyes! inception there.
Medley Fox Trot with Vocal Chorus The alumni associations both new and] # .
Me Too -F. x Trot with Vocal Chorus Téld have been showing interest through
1W ; : general activity and have taken steps in O)
That’s My Geek Seat eat hee planning a big home-coming day a Da- In Statesville We Are Located
Paul Weems and His Orchestra ~ ‘vidson on November 13. Harry Ruff, TO SE RVE YOU

vice-president of the alumni association

bomeene is Losin’ Susan at Rock Hill has just written a letter to
ox Trot Philip Spitalny and His Orchestra the alumni association in which he has Drinks Candy Smokes

9 UW

There’s a New Star in Heaven Tonight given an order for twenty-five tickets to

(Rudolph Valentino) with Violin and Guitar the Davidson-Carolina classic event of e
An Old-Fashioned Picture November 13. Austin Candy Shop

With Violin and G:itar Vernon Dalhart ; Mr. McGill, the college treasurer, has Ss ille. N. C
Six Feet of Papa wih Violin, ’Cel'o and Piano : charge of the tickets and any one can tatesville, N. C.
Looking at the World Thru Rose Coolred Glasses obtain them by writing to him,

With Violin, 'Cello and Piano Aileen Stanley gee epee ae [eeEweaeesseeesaaee ecessewscsssessseess wz sevesssezeze paseasssssssessseessessaseaess

FRESH TOURNAMENT H

PARKER-GARDNERCO. ‘cauaa trie 5 WHITE DRUG COMPANY

b5 ; ager of last year’s Fresh tennis team. Thirty-
( Music Dept. CHARLOTTE, N. C. two boys entered. At the carly date it was

___y; |impossible to do much toward seeding the

A complete line of Stationery, Toilet Articles

and Kodak Supplies

players because very little was known of
their value. Therefore, some men who were
NOW | M P E R I L REGULAR defeated before the semi-finals actually have

A as much chance ‘of making the team as those
PLAYING PRICES who went through to the semi-finals. The

We are ready to serve you

Drugs, Cigarettes, Cigars

é results of this tournament by no means defi- |~
The Best Picture of the Season! itey decide the team,

° ; 5 . e n the playing of the third round, Johnston,
What a Picture! Richard Dix 18 Every Bit as Good as Apple, Halverstadt, and Henderson won their

Nick Sappenfield---That’s Plenty Good! way to the semi-finals. Johnston defeated
Apple, and Halverstadt defeated Henderson

to reach the finals. Then in a fast match °

Halverstadt in three straight sets won the The Kelly Clothing Company
championship from Johnston. Both of these :
men, among others, show promise of becom- Correct Dressers for Men
ing valuable players for the Freshmen.
Among those who did not reach the semi- 4 y

finals but who will likely make strong bids Mooresville, Statesville, Shelby
for berths on the team are Kopp, Gardner,
Elliott, and Pettus.

As things look now the prospects for big
tennis teams for Davidson in the next few

Dunhill & Kaywoodie Pipes

The clothes and accessories you want are there ”

years are very bright. The main handicap ecco ° ee
which faces the teams is the lack of suitable} oR
courts for practice and for match play. A

friend of this school could find no better way |

to help it than by giving money for the con- Warner Bros
e,

struction of new courts or for making the old
ones fit to use.
Although the Fresh team will have no reg-

ular schedule for this fall, they hope to get! |] ° Broadway Th eatre

a match or two. in order that they may get
started. Charlotte High School will likely

be approached concerning a match. WHERE QU ALITY MEETS

ball court, where he starred for four years | CHARLOTTE, N. C.

and served as captain his last year. The |
bride is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Hamp- | RED R N E
ton Samuel Brown, and is more than beauti- | A

fu and attractive. Mr. and Mrs. Mauze will

be at home in Green Bank, W. Va., where | The Greatest of All Football Idols
Mr. Mauze holds a pastorate. :
Only one day before the marriage of Mr. in

\ Soe Be te Ga Lavra Bibel ONE MINUTE TO PLAY

Tillett. This marriage is of special interest

‘ ! ist we — — E :
 : ; to Davidson alumni as Bethea was a member The Greatest of All F ootball Stories
i‘ A RTE BAC a | and a graduate of the class of '22, He was ; :
- one of the best football players ever to don
-” one of the best football players ever to do” |! THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY, Oct. 28, 29, 30

for two or three years. = = SS nt

