THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 22, 1926 ~

th

Biddle Quintet Gives
Before Students

Last the Biddle Quartet
irom Johnson C. Smith University, gave a
delightiul program of song and harmony in
Shearer Hall. The selections were varied,
ranging from extremely classical pieces to
old-time negro spirituals. In a number of
selections the accompanist joined the singers,
increasing their number to a quinet. Only a
handiul of students, hardly 20, were present
at the performance, but these applauded -lust-
ily and the singers were at their best as a
result.

Monday night

As the opening ‘number the quartet sang
“A Lullabye—A Little Bunch of Honey”,
followed by “The Venetian Love Song.” J
F. Jones, baritone, then sang “The Big
Brown Blur” and “Always” as an encore.
This number> was by far the best of the
evening as a solo,

The quartet, augmented ta a quintet twice
by the pianist, sang “Old Black Joe” with
excellent Harmony, “Kentucky Babe,” “Live
Humble,” “Bill of Fare.” and a number of
encores. G. L. Allen gave three piano solos,
two of them being encores. J. S, Lucas, pos-
sessing a tenor voice of surprising beauty,
sang “Lou of the Desert’ and “By the Walls
of Miniatouka” as an encore. The final
number was the “Sextette from Lucia” by
the entire quartet.

The quartet was composed of the following
men: George McKeithan, bass; J. F. Jones,
baritone; A. H. Prinal, lead; and J. S.
Lucas, tenor. G. S, Allen was the accom-
panist. All are experienced singers.

This
Biddle

years.

appearance of, the
Davidson in as many
Last year they were greeted by a
large audiénce and received with great en-
thusiasm. Due to the fact that many of the
students had heard them at that time, and to
lack of advertisement, their reception was not
so enthusiastic this year, ‘

the second

songsters at

Was

Deputation Visits,
Charlotte Church

There

Was no regular meeting of the
Christian Endeavor Training Class on Sun-
day, but a deputation was sent to the First
Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, where it
was well received. This is the third’ deputa-
tion sent out by the class this year and it is
planned to send several more during the last
weeks of Mooresville, Statesville
and other nearby towns will be visited.

school,

The program was given in the form of a
triangular meeting. The chairs were ar-
ranged in the shape of a triangle and the
same idea was carried out in the program,
The meeting was opened with three prayers,
Bill Covington, Don Stewart. and Mallory
Calhoun participating. A three-headed topic
was discussed by three men. Jeff Garrison
spoke on “Prayer,” Bob Kell on “Faith,” and
Bob Covington on “Works.” A quartet com-
Stewart, Calhoun, Garrison and
Lowrance sang three songs.

posed of

The meeting was quite a success and the
leaders of the class state that there is a fine
spirit of co-operation and plans are already
heing formulated for next year.

SMITH BRINGS BRILLIANT

(Continued from page 1!)

in-chiet of The Davidsonian, tor the follow-
ing year by a large majority in the annual
student body elections then being held. He
was chosen on the first ballot from a field
ot three candidates. He has held this, posi-
tion until his retirement with the last issue.
During his term of office The Davidsonian
issued three special editions, one of 16 pages
and two of 12 pages, more than the manage-
ment ot The
attempted.

Davidsonian has ever before

Smith has been active hot only in jour-
nalistic work but in other literary lines as
well, contributing to the Davidson College
Magazine in all of its issues, the annual pub-
lication, Quips and Cranks, and having one
ot his poems given honorable mention in the
annual anthology publication of the best work
done by ‘undergraduates during the year. He
held the presidency of the Eumenean Lite-
rary Society. He was also editor of Sanity
Rare, published annually by the Junior class
for Junior Week. He also aided the present
Junior class editors in publishing the cur-
rent issue of this humorous magazine. He
is a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, na-
tional honorary leadership fraternity.

Smith was also president of the Dramatic
Club here during the past year and has writ-
ten several plays that have been presented
by this organization.” He has also been active
in this work since his Fresh year. He has

Varied Program
on Monday Evening

Baker and Pinkney Will
Attend Student Meeting

Many Noted Educators Will Speak
—College Social Problems to be
Discussed

On Thursday and Friday of this week,
April 23 and 24, the Southern Federation of
College Students will meet in annual conven-
tion at Washington and Lee University. Da-
vidson will be represented by Tom Baker
and J. F. Pinkney, outgoit® and incoming

‘Tpresidents of the Davidson student body, re-

spectively.

An extensive program has been planned
which takes in every minute of the two days
of the convention. The opening session will
begin Thursday morning at 9:30 a.m. Dr.
Henry Louis Smith, president of W. & L.,
will deliver the address of welcome, and after
the response by the president of the federa-
tion, the business of ‘the convention will be
disposed of. The morning session will be
concluded with three speeches by student rep-

resentatives on subjects concerning student
| officers and student government. Jim Pink-
ney, as the, Davidson representative, will
speak on “The Scope and Interpretation of
the Hotior System.”

The afternoon session will be taken up with
‘discussion of college athletic problems by
student representatives, followed by an ad-
dress on “Scholarship and Extracurricular
Activities,” by Dr. H. D. Campbell, dean of
Washington and Lee University. At 5:30
p.m. the delegates will be taken on a trip to
Natural Bridge, after which they will be en-
tertained at a banquet.

On the second day social problems will he

discussed, especially those Ryesented by fra-
ternities and dances. The final
Friday afternoon will include open forum
discussion, election of officers, and the choice
of the next meeting place. The convention
will be brought to a grand close with an in-
formal dance Friday night.

College Editors
Meet at G uilford

The tenth sim-annual convention of the
North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
will be held at Guilford College, starting
April 29, and continuing for three days to
May 1. At this time representatives of the
leading college newspapers, magazines, and
‘annuals in North Carolina will gather to.dis-
cuss the more important problems facing the
collegiate journalists at this time.

The North Carolina Collegigate Press As-
sociation, since its organization some years
ago, has developed into one of the leading |
state press associations in Southern collegiate
circles. Conventions are held at various col-
leges which are members of the association,
and at each convention a large representation
from each of the member-colleges is present.

The last convention, held during the early
part of last November, was held at the Uni-
versity of North Carolina, and at that time
some 50-odd delegates were registered. Morn-
ing and afternoon sessions were held during
each of the three days of the sessions, in ad-
dition to the various forum discussions and

session on

group conferences.

The social entertainments of the semi-an-
nual conferences are always a special fea-
ture. Both the girls and boys, representing
the various college papers, join together to
enjoy a round of entertainment that adds life
and zest to all of the conventions.

Plans’for the meet at Guilford are practi-
cally complete, and everything points to one
of the finest conventions in the association’s
history. A recent announcement
from the president of the association gave
some advance dope on the convention, and
also urged the early registration of dele-

sent out

gates.

The leading officers of the association at
the present time are E. G. Moore, N. C.
State, president; Ernest Milton, Davidson,
vice-president ; and Miss Dixie Hines, G. C.
W., secretary and treasurer. New officers
will be elected at the Guilford conference,
and at that time the annual vote for the best
college publication will also be taken.

also been on'the varsity football and track
squads.

Trenton, Tenn., has the honor of claiming
to be the home of this worthy son, and he
has been active there during the summer |
months in the publication of its paper. Aft-|
er receiving his diploma in June, Smith will |
probably enter the journalistic world in Gas- |
tonia, where he worked one summer as a_
reporter on the Gastonia Daily Gazette. |

C/nusual F-xcellence

Never happens by Chance

(ESPECIALLY THREE TIMES IN A ROW)

with y

you.

The

ou equally well.

(pee fact that we have again been
awarded the contract for the hand-
some 000-page year book of the United
States Military Academy evidences an
organization and service that can work

Our personnel are all college men who know and
appreciate your particular ideas and problems.

We will appreciate an opportunity to work with

A $25,000 Government contract---a solid
carload shipment of handsome books---
placed with this company tn the face of
severe Northern competition.

QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY

CHARLOTTE,

N, C,

Se

ag

: When it’s a rainy

night—and with three crafty

bridge players your luck

is running wild

—have a Camel!

The

Camels represent the utmost in cigarette quality. 1
choicest of Turkish and Domestic tobaccos are blended into
Camels by master blenders and the finest of French cigarette
paper is made especially for them. Into this oxe brand is
concentrated all of the knowledge, all of the skill of the
world’s largest organization of expert tobacco men.

© 1926

WHEN the dark skies are
pouring rain outside.
And fickle fate deals you
hands at bridge that you
play with consummate
skill—have a Camel!

For Camel is the silent
partner that helps every
deserving player win his
game. Camels never hurt
or tire the taste, never
leave a trace of cigaretty
after-taste. Regardless of
the gold you spend,
you'll never get choicer
tobaccos than those
rolled into Camels.

So this evening as you
ply your unerring skill,
evoke then the mellow-
est fragrance that ever
came from a cigarette.

Have a Camel!

Our highest wish, if you
do not yet know Camel
quality, is that you try
them. We invite you to
compare Camels with
any cigarette made at
any price. .
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco
Company

