THE DAVIDSONIAN,OCTOBER 28, 1926

Mr. R. A. Dunn Will
Speak to Students

Another prominent man of the Charlotte
business world will conduct “Y” Vespers next
Sunday. This time it will be Mr. R. A,
Dunn, president of the Commercial National

Bank, which is one of the largest and most

powerful banks of the state.

Mr. Dunn is

also chairman of the finance division of the |
Executive Committee of the Board of Trus- |

tees of the college.

Although not an alumnus of Davidson, he
has always been a loyal supporter and an
ardent friend of all the activities concerning
this institution. Mr. Dunn has exerted’ an
influence on.the young men of Charlotte and
has been in the midst of every activity for

the advancement and betterment of Charlotte. |

He is one of the big business men who has
always put first things first and has_had time
for those higher things of life. Mr. Dunn is
an elder in the First Presbyterian Church of
Charlotte.

Attention ‘is called, again, to the student
evangelistic services to be conducted by Dr.
Ben Lacy, president of Union Theological

Seminary. These services will be held from |

November 4th through the 7th. Dr. Lacy,
a graduate of Davidson, has sold himself

Dr.

|

Mr. Glasgow Speaks
at “Y” Vespers Sunday

Noted Charlotte Business Man
Brings Message to Students

. Mr. Tom Glasgow, a business man of
Charlotte, spoke to the students at the “Y”"
| Vesper services last Sunday evening. Mr.
| Glasgow, though not a graduate of David-
| son, has been one of its most loyal and ready
| supporters for many years.

Mr. Glasgow built his talk around the verse
| in the Bible whichssays: “Ye that have seen
ime have seen the Father.” “He made it in
‘the form of a direct testimony, which made
,it even more interesting and inspiring.

| The main point stressed in the talk was the
|fact that the relationship between God and
/ man
tenderness,

which exists between a father
This ex-
|ception is that God's love for man is far
|greater than, and is not limited by, any of

and his child, with one exception.

versity, where he received his Ph.D. degree much more outside reading and study, and
is, the same relationship of love and! jy 1893.

Alphonso Smith, Davidson Alumnus, Social Life at Vienna
__ Remembered for Literary Attainments

There are Smiths and Smiths; but a most
notable one was graduated from Davidson in
1884. The full name is Charles Alphonso

Smith. At the time of his death in June,

| 1924, Dr. Smith was head of the Department faculty have attended the University, of

of English at the United States Naval Acad-
emy, Aunapolis, Md. Forty years elapsed
between his graduation from Davidson and
his death. He began with an A.B. degree, a
regular college alumnus. He finished as one
of the best known and most able authorities
on literature in the world. “Who's Who In
America” contains a clear sketch of C. Al-
phonso Smith’s attainments through a long,
active life in the sphere of education and
letters.

Dr. Smith was born at Greensboro, N. C.,
in May, 1864.
taught and studied at Johns-Hopkins Uni-

After finishing Davidson he

In succession Ne was professor of
English at Louisiana State University, the
University of North Carolina, the University
of Virginia, and finally the United States

Naval Academy. At the University of

shic } } ¥ } . b+ *% co f , . . . . -
through his wonderful personality and sincere | the bounds which limit finite man’s love for North Carolina Dr. Smith was also’ Dean oi

appeal to all men of the college. These meet-
ings are being looked forward to with keen
anticipation by the entire student body.

SALEM COLLEGE IS HOST

(Continued from page 1)
will go on the part of the Annual, represent-
ing the editorial and business staffs respec-
tively. :

The Davidson publications are represented
in the offices of the Press Association this
year, V. S. Broyles, business manager of ‘The

Davidsonian, being vice-president. The other |

officers are Byron Haworth, president, and
Dorothy Siewers, of The Salemnite, secre-
tary.

f Fresh Country Vegetables

STAPLE AND FANCY
GROCERIES

Fellows, see us for replenishing
your Fraternity House larders

BARNETT AND COMPANY

DAVIDSON, N. C.

Jf

PRINT MUL OLE OL OE oR LUT aL aT one aT EL NINN

PRINTING |

printing of any description, see

rrr

VERNON S. BROYLES

QUICK SERVICE
BEST PRICES

Agent for

“anal gas epemaeccen grees: |

Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

NRARRARARARARAARRARAALA

1

“Witen in-need-otfratglaas [obit]

his child. . Mr. Glasgow urged that this
{thought be placed on a personal basis. He
urged the realization be brought about that
Christ died on the cross to save each one,
and not to think of Him as dying to save
only the heathen in Africa er in China.

He also urged that each student get him-

**self in a frame of mind so as to really believe

the things which are taught in the Bible, and
icould have a true, solid faith in these things
jand in God. He issued the warning that it
‘is easy for a man who’ professes to be, and

the Graduate Department. During all these
years he wrote books on literature.
Although Professor Smith declined the va-
cant chair of English at Davidson College
in the spring of 1895, his contributions to the
college library testify his interest in his alma
mater. On the second floor of the library is
a case bearing this placard: “Books by Da-
vidson Men.” Two men surpass all the rest
in the number of books representing their

authorship. These are Woodrow Wilson and

Different From American

Differences Noted in Life of Stu-
dents of Two Countries

Several members of the Davidson College

Vienna, and quite a few hints have been
dropped by them in regard to student life and
activities there as compared with student life
in our own American universities,

The students who attend the University of
Vienna are, as a whole, more settled and
mature than our university students. Thus
we find our custom of calling the roll con-
spicuous by its absence—the students merely
rising as the profesor enters the room. This

simple custom also eliminates the well-
known system of mailing “cut-cards” on Sat-
urday. The material studied is somewhat

more advanced, one being required to do
to concentrate on one line of work. No regu-
lar assignments are made.

Lectures given on class by professors are
very detailed, and show a thorough knowl-
edge of the subject. Indeed, the professor is
highly educated and must
A German
university profesor is considered to be a big
andis thought of as

required to be
really be proficient in his subject.

man of the community,
a leader,

Social lite at the University of Vienna is
somewhat similar to the social life in our
The students
have their various fraternities and mueh in-

own universities and colleges.
terest is taken in them. A fraternity there is
The interest of
fraternity men seems to be

known as a “Verbindung.”

the centered

from all outward appearances. is a Christian CP iohonko Smith largely around the sport of duelling—it being |
man, to not really believe, down in the depths From time to time, as theamore important considered quite an honor to have a facial
love THE heart, the things which the Bible of his works were published, Dr. Smith in- | sear which was received ina duel.
teaches. He warned against passing them off S€tibed a copy in his) small detinite hand Then. there are the many different clubs
in a light, indifferent: manner, and urged Writing and sent it to Davidson. In all but jof the university. Here thee Germans get
that each man really understand and believe One the inscription reads: “With the com- together, drink beer and sing their favorite
them. pliments of C. Alphonso Smith." “Die songs, oMany of the men have good voices
Another thought which Mr. Glasgow ‘merikanisehe Literatur,” published in Ber- and plus a little beer, excellent harmonies
stressed was the duty to our fellowmen. In lin in 1911, is the exception With the sin are rendered, |
order to illustrate and impress this idea bet- eve regards of C. Alphonso Smith, Interscholastic activities are pRictically
ter upon the men, he used the following = The Smith collection represents the au-\ unknown among the foreign institutions, and

thought :

| Christians, get to heaven, and those souls textbooks on grammar, old English gram- |
| which are doomed to pass to the lower world, mars, American literary histories, bic raph. |

pass by, perhaps Christ will turn to you or I

|} to Him. Wouldn't we feel bad, when we told
for Him? We owe it to Christ to pass His
Gospel on to others and save Him from the
sorrow which must be His, when He sees
those going the downward
path.”

lost souls on

anything else that could be done. He warn-
ed that it would cost something, but gave
assurance that the joy which would be de-

troubles.

applied to life of each one.

Webb—"That wasn’t real Italian
ghetti we had for supper.”

wasn’t?”

plate.”
S& W Cafeteria
CHARLOTTE ’ ASHEVILLE
GREENSBORO RALEIGH

WHOLESALE

When You Need Candy
See Us

26 28 S. College St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C

4

| and ask us if We ever told any of those souls authors ant their works.
that we know here on earth, about Him, And ard volumes of selections from the pens of
then, probably we would have to answer, ‘No,’ American and British masters édited by him.

“As a last thought, Mr. Glasgow assured» numerous
' the men that living a real unselfish Christian—_colleges,—containing short
life affords one more genuine pleasure than ports of speeches by Dr. Smith, round out the

spa- as editor.

_ Virginia State Board

“When you or I, who are true thor’s success in the writing of elemtary all

ies, and critical or explanatory discussions of
a bs 1
There are stand-

Part of this work was written in German and

| Him that we had not even done ‘that much | published abroad during his stay at the Uni-

versity of Berlin as Roosevelt’ Professor of
American History and Instruction in’ the
years 1910-11. In some instances Dr. Smith
collaborated with American
in his and
bulletins and

German — or

writings. Periodicals

from

scholars
universities
articles and. re
collection of his works found in the section
of the brary devoted to Davidson men,

Until the death of Joel Chandler Harris,

rived from it would more than repay for the co-editor-in-chif of “The Library of South
He told of the joy he had found in’ ern Literature,” C
it and urged that these fhoughts and rules be was listed on the editorial page as assistant t¢aching [English gives a conservative esti- |

. Alphonse Smith's name

literary editor. After “Uncle Remus’” de-
cease Dr. Smith was promoted to his place
Volumes XIV and XVII he edited
without the help of his editor-partner. One

as an autographed author's copy to the col-

His “Poe—How Him,” and
“Repetition and in English
Verse,” are regular reference books on Poe
for Dr. E. F. Shewmake’s course in Amer-
ican Literature. The first named was pub-
lished in 1921, the last in 1894.

The Virginia Folk-Lore Society was |
founded in 1913 by Dr. C. Alphonso Smith, |
at that time Edgar Allan Poe Professor-of
English at the University of Virginia. It |
has won national recognition in the 13 years
of its existence. Dr. Smith led in the col- |
lection of ld ballads and folk music. The
of Education has |
recognized the value of this society and com- |
mended it on the excellency of its research.

O. Henry (William Sydney Porter) was |
born two years before C. Alphonso Smith in
the same town—Greensboro, N. C. The
famous short story writer left his native city
and set out for Texas while the Davidson |
student was still in college.

Know

Parallelism

to

Years later Dr.
Smith published a biography of O. Henry,
defending his townsman’s actions in Texas. |
This biography is accepted as an authority |
on the short story master’s life.

Possessing a scholarly knowledge of the |
German language, Dr. Smith assisted Kruger |
in compiling a short “German Composition
Book,” And his “Die Amerikanische Litera-

interest centers around the Gone major
sport—duelling.

Holidays, which are so scarce in the Amer-
ican cdllege to frequent at
Vienna. The Christmas holidays continue
for six. weeks, and the Easter holidays for

seem he very

the same length of time. The students have

an abundance of time for reereation and

travel.
The only degree offered by the University |
of Vienna is that of Ph.D., quite a different |
that which our own colleges |

and universities follow. |
!

|

custom from

tur” is a classic interpretation of American

The late Dr. W. W.
paper in 1912 dealing with “Davidson Men
in the World's Work.”
the section appraising the alumni engaged in

Moore delivered

literature to the German people. |
al

His conclusion to

mate of C. Alphonso Smith’s greatness. Dr. |
Moore’s paper reads : . surely a brilliant |
roster which may be fitly capped with the |
name of that gifted "son of Davidson whose

McCutchcon—“How do you know it of these, Volume XIV, has been presented !uminous and \inspiring work in this depart-

ment has-woener him the most coveted lau- |

. et Paes | 2 . » Jew
Webb—"Because Italian spaghetti falls lege and appears with the remainder of his ‘els in both the Old World and the New,
off your fork and goes “wop” on the works in the special bookcase.

Charles Alphonso Smith, 1884, of the Uni- |
versitv of Virginia,”

[pzseesescassosaensnansneassssessseeasesesses=

“DE EUXE:

Mooresville Ice Cream Company

Incorporated
MANUFACTURERS OF

BRICK AND FANCY CREAMS AND DeLUXE CUPS

Mooresville, N. C.
CALL US FOR SPECIAL ORDERS

TIPICA ORCHESTRA GIVES
MATINEE FOR SCHOOL
CHILDREN

The Tipica Orchestra of Mexico (Pres-
ident Obregon’s official orchestra) has
announced through its American repre-
sentative, R. E. Hines, of El Paso, Texas,
that they will give a special matinee for
the benefit of the school children of this
vicinity. The hour for the matinee has
been set for 3:30. p. m., on Tuesday, No-
vember 2nd, so that the children of the
nearby towns can get here in time for

the performace,

A special price for the children of 75
cents for reserved seats and 50 cents for
general admission is offered, this being
less than half price for adults. Teachers
will be admitted seats for
$1.10, and they must bring their certifil
cates or a statment from their supervisor
that they are bona fide teachers.

to reserved

The children of Mecklenburg are cor-
dially invited to attend this performance,
which is in°every way identical with the
one for the evening. After the perfor-
mance, all Spanish students are invited
to the stage to meet the members of the
orchestra.

Owing to the fact that the auditorium
will only hold 1,800 people, the children
are urged to get their ‘tickets in advance
so that out of town children will not come
The tickets will be
Company,

and be turned away.

available at Parker-Gardner

Causey——"May I print a kiss on your

lips?”
Girl—"No, Jack, you aren't my type.”

\r

LAD to serve
you every day
and Sunday, too.

~ SANITARY CAFE

i MOORESVILLE, N. C

=|

Poaucnonennes

|
|
|

[Gcarcorees

URN UNE UNRVANE

Where Good Fellows
Get Together

BUCK’S CORNER

Sodas, Fruits, Candies,

Toasted Sandwiches

Snappy Curb Service

Brand New Place in
Center of Mooresville

rH

ICE CREAM

&

sumed by fire and every

Every minute $1104. worth of property is con-

day 42 persons burned

to death with 46 injured. Be careful and help

stop this awful waste.

McALISTER CARSON, Mer. Insurance Department
IINDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

