THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 14, 1926

Prominent Speakers to
Appear on ‘Y’ Program
in Next Few Meetings

Exceptionally Good Program is Be-
ing Arranged by Cabinet for
Winter Months

Speakers for the Y. M. C. A. vesper serv-
ices have been secured to fill all dates up to
February 28, except January 17, which is
next Sunday. Efforts are being made to get
Pat Crawford to speak then. Pat is a re-

cent graduate of Davidson and, in addition to

having been a star on the baseball and bas-
ketball teams while here, he has had a very
successful career in professional athletics
since leaving college. He has played base-
ball in Chattanooga, Tenn., and in Charlotte,
and is now head coach of Gastonia High

School, which won the state football cham-
pionship this fall.
Mr. Will Hendren, of Winston-Salem,

will address the Y. M. C. A. on January 24.
Mr. Hendren, who is now practicing law in
Winston-Salem, has the distinction of being
the president of the North Carolina Bar
Association. He is well known throughout
the state and is highly recommended as a
talented and forceful speaker.

On January 31 Bishop Edward A. Penick,
of Charlotte, will be here. Bishop Penick
made a favorable impression on all his hear-
ers last year. He delivered a scholarly and
masterful talk dealing with live topics of
vital interest to students.
the diocese of North Carolina.

On the first Sunday in February, Mr. Stitt
Wilson, a thinker and lecturer of nation-
wide fame, is to talk. Mr. Wilson has been
especially interested in Y. M. C. A. work
for the past few years and it is under the
Southern division of the Association that he

is now touring the South visiting the differ- |

ent colleges and universities, for the purpose
of addressing the student bodies.
is a modern thinker and is sure to give every
one who hears him a new outlook on life or
a new viewpoint on the subjects he discusses.

A deputation from Louisville Theological
Seminary is to have charge of the vesper
service on February 14. Davidson has sev-
eral alumni attending this seminary and the
deputation will probably be composed of
some of these men,

Dr. D. H. Ogden, pastor of one of the
largest Presbyterian churches in Mobile,
Ala., will be at Davidson for a series of
talks. The first of these will probably be at
the “Y” service on February 21. He will
talk at chapel in the mornings and right
after supper in the evenings for several days,
following his talk at the vesper service. This
will be the annual Life-Work meeting held
by the Y. M. C. A. each spring. Dr. Ogden |

is recognized as one of the best orators and,

finest preachers in the South. His services
are much in demand by other colleges and
Davidson is fortunate in having him accept
her invitation. Dr. Ogden has sent two sons
to Davidson, one of whom is now a student
here.

Boxing Exhibition

to be Held in Gym

Pugilistic fans of the college and vicinity
will be given a treat at the wrestling match
Saturday night. Just before or after this

meet with the grapplers from Concord, Cap- |
tain Elkins has arranged for two bouts’ to be |
staged. The contestants will all be students |

and the participants have not as yet been de-
cided upon.

This will be a novelty to the student body,

which has been working hard for a regular |

boxing team to represent the college for
years. However, there is small chance of a
team being developed to engage in intercol-
legiate boxing at least before next year. The
bouts this year will be confined to intra-mural
limits with the possibility of a team for next
year,

Captain Elkins has been working hard on
the men who have been coming out to prac-
tices. Since the holidays the number has |
dropped off slightly but Captain Elkins re- |
ports a list of about 40 men who are showing |
real interest and among these he says there |
is some good material. Boxing is one of' the
few exercises that develops co-ordination of |
all the parts of the body and it is for this
reason that the army has for yeats encour-
aged it. Captain Elkins is interested in all
men who go out for any branch of athletics
to come out and take an interest in the new
sport.

“That’s a swell dresser” said Peewee
McCravey as he looked in the furniture
window.

He is bishop of |

Mr. Wilson |

Ministerial Band
*Is Addressed By

Professor Davis

The Ministerial Band convened on last
Sunday afternoon in Shearer Hall. This
was the first meeting of the new year and
was well attended, some 30 members being
present.

The meeting opened, with a song and a
prayer followed by a short testimonial meet-
ing. At this time each member told of his
experience in personal work during the holi-
days. Each member had taken part in some |
form of church activity ranging from teach-
ing Sunday School to leading Bible classes.

After these testimonies Prof. P. H. Davis
delivered a convincing talk on the need of
men in the pulpit today. He pointed out in a
striking manner how the members of the
Band as candidates for the ministry were
undertaking the most responsible profession
that one might choose. He told how church
members of today want ministers with well
rounded educations, thoroughly versed in the
practical knowledge of the day beside their
theological instruction.

Mr. Davis asked that they so choose their
line of studies that they might be quoted as
authorities in latter years on scientific ques-
tions. He pointed out, however, that they
should not neglect in the least their theologi-
‘cal studies. This side of their education he
said was their main object in life at present !
‘and was their greatest preparation for
preaching the Gospel.

DAVIDSON’S GREATEST
SCHEDULE

(Continued from page 1)
between the rival teams and time given to
work up the various topics.

In meeting Pittsburg a most excellent
team will be met. This school is making a
far-reaching Southern tour and will meet
the principal schools in the South then, The
question for this debate will be, Resolved,
That the United States Government should
own and operate the coal mines of the
country.

The Freshman class has an opportunity to
show that it has debaters among its midst.
Wake Forest will be met at Wake Forest
some time in April and the University of
North Carolina will be met at Davidson also
in the same month. Last year’s Freshmen
defeated Wake Forest and lost to the Caro
lina Freshmen,

Davidson College has been long noted for
her excellence along forensic lines as well
as in the various other outdoor sports, and
in oratory and debating many men have
achieved success in the business world after
| having acquired the fundamentals in the
literary halls of Davidson. Among the out-
Standing alumni who have been acclaimed
the world over are such men as the late
| President Woodrow Wilson and ex-Gov-
Robert B. Glenn, of North Carolina.

DR. HARDING TALKS

(Continued from page 1)

| too often were “les Bon Mots” lost by trans-
lators in their effort to give their readers a
| liberal translation of some antiquated work.

Due to the fact that there were only two
| Southerners on the program, the other one
| being R. B. Steele, of Vanderbilt University,
| Nashville, Tenn., it was a signal honor be-

he was placed as a speaker.
ciations mentioned above, while meeting to-
|gether at numerous times and at several so-
|cial gatherings, and held private “round
' table” discussions. At the Wednesday morn-
ing meeting of the Philological Association,
a memorial session was convened in honor of
Basil Lanneau Gildersleeve, who during his
lifetime was one of .the outstanding men in
his profession. in the world.

WILDCATS WIN

(Continued from page 1)
loop the basket when a marker should have
| been made.. The game was a fine exhibition
|of clean and hard playing throughout.

| The line-up:

| Davidson. Position. Duke.

|Laird (Gq) eee ie Pe Hartness (10) |
RF

Huiex(10) paesoo eee Bullock (7)-- |
LE {

Wilsons (5) cole outtes ese cols Moss (9) |
Cc

Anderson (8) Eee Weaver
RG

Harrisons (9) see ena ce eee Bennette
LG

Substitutions: Simpson (2) ‘for Laird;
Hudgins for Huie.: Duke: Butler (5) for

Bullock; Kelley for Weaver.

stowed upon this Davidson professor when —
The three asso- |

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE
SOPHOMORE

FRESHMEN

JU NIOR- SE NIOR

!

, : i ; |

the Blue Ridge conferences, with a view to!

working up a large delegation to attend the |
convention next June.

“yY” CABINET MAKES

(Continued from page 1)

realizes its opportunities in this work and
anticipates good results.

Due to some waning interest in represent-
ing Davidson at the summer conferences at
Blue Ridge, a committee with A. Y. Bowie
as chairman has been appointed and will be} some years, and everyone will do well to see
active throughout the year in an effort to'them. A small admission fee will be
stir up enthusiasm among the students about charged.

PRESENTATION OF THREE
ONE-ACT PLAYS
(Continued from page 1)

the Davidson Dramatic. Club has given in!

Thur [AM | Economics 1,
1 | PM. | Biblel ~~ eS = SaBible’2 Se uae Applied Math. a T
| Astronomy, Geology
Frid | A.M. | German 1, Greek 1 German 2 2, Greek 2 RE German 3, 4, Greek 3, 5, 5, 6
eriday - - -_——_—_—- ——____—___ — — a —
22 | P.M. Physics 1 Physics 2, 3, 4
| Public Speaking
Sat oC ALM, Political Science
é ey Accounting
H 2 | :
H P.M. | English 1 English 2 English 3, 4, 5, 6
H Tues. | “A.M. a “Spanish 1 Spanish 2 Spanish 3, 4, 5, 6
H 26 ‘TPM, Phys. and Hyg. ; 5 Psychology 1, 2 4
1 Wed. | AM | et: 5 : Egonomics 3 oe
" | : Sorel Ze, Aiaitieentis
H 27 | P.M. a ROT. C1 k. O. T. C2 R. 0. T. C3, 4
' ae | A.M. | ranch 1 French 20 | : French 3 <
ed | | Philosophy 1, 2
H a | P.M. | Latin 1 Latin 2 z Law, Education 2
H Friday | A.M. | Biology 1 Biology 2 Biology 3, 4
i oe Deas History 1 History 2, 3, 4,5
“ALM. | Chemistry 1 Chemistry 2 Chemistry 3, 4, 5, 6
Sat. P.M. Math, 1 Math, 2 Math, 3, 4, Political
H 30 Science, Education 1
H Christian Evidences or
H | Church History
H
H
v

For your approval we suggest that the

class of ‘20 be named the Knights of
Joseph. This could casily be done if a
red band be placed around each Senior's
j coat.

Root Tee Toot, Root Tee Toot!

We're the boys from the Institute.

Yellow and blue, yellow and blue,

| TWENTY-SIX!

Re .

SAGA

plish little.

at Colstrip, Montana.

G-E Motorized Power—
an ideal combination of
electric motor and con-
trol properly fitted to the
individual task—is at

work the world-over,
relieving workers more
and more for better and
more profitable pursuits.

A new series of G-E ad-
vertisements showing
what electricity is doing
in many fields will be
sent on request.

Ask for Booklet GEK-1.

accomplishes much.

ating capacity is 20,600,

Where motorized power is virtually unknown, men toil yet accome
The United States has over one-quarter electrical
horsepower installed per capita.
Orient, has but .04 horsepower. Electric shovel and storage battery
locomotive are shown at a completely electrified open-pit coal mine,

Ten or twelve hours a day toils the coolie. If h
carries all he can, he moves one ton one mile in
one day. For that he receives twenty cents.

Japan, leading country of the

Work without Toil

If he

Cheap labor! Yet compared with our American
worker, receiving at least twenty-five times as much
for an eight-hour day, the coolie is expensive labor.
In America we move one ton one mile for less than
one cent. The coolie, working by hand, accomplishes
little; while the American, with electricity’s aid,

Plenty of electricity and cheap electricity —these
are two great advantages which America enjoys
over the rest of the world. While our present gener-

000 kilowatts, new develop-

ments call for 3,000,000 kilowatts more per year.

To college men and women— potential leaders—will
fall the duty of finding more and still more work

} for electricity, with less and stil] less.toil for our

workers. For the task is but begun!

GENERAL ELECT RIC

BNERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY,

CHENECTADY,
