4 ae.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 4, 1927

The Davidsonian |

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

— —

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF

eae ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly. hy the Studenta of Davidson Colle
Fotered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter ot
the Second Class

~ SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
iN Conte per Copy: $2.0 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7300 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
seived from an unknown source will not he published.

BOYCE. MARTIN. ..0..-2-0-----0-
M. P.. CRAWFORD 222. -2.2c2ccceeooe--euee Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

A, N. PPOWN ...-. .---Managing Editor |
W. K_ PRITCHETT .-Managing Editor
J. B. MORIARITY . .-Managing Editor
C. RR. LAKE -cncsencccccsvcncsensrccssensensses Athletic Editor
B. A. WIFE SON... TERESA aS Sus Feature Editor
W. L. LINGLE Editor
F. C. WITHERS - Editor
Ty 3; FS © o sasdanceu Fditor
1. C, ADSWORTH ... Editor
WR 6 GRADY: ssiisnantved snvicsevcbavadqaoaus Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
R. 8S. ABERNETHY Assistant Business Manager
S. J. ALLISON....- Assistant Business Manager
Ww. M. POWELL Assistant Business Manager
Y. J. GARRISO .-.----Subscription Manager
RB. W. DICKSON... .--Circulation Manager
Wig ORM Makhs sb ddesdbeecisaddsibasadsacusunacooss Solicitor
W. B. McGUIRE. : -------Qolicitor
KF. H. McCALL.......--. os se------Solicitor
..--. President

L. EF ....-Vice- President
R, ecretary-Treasurer
9 sf} R. W. McDERMI

W. H. ST Ww. B. Noor

E. T, EDELMAN F, D. MILLER

F. S. HEFFNER Vv. A. MILTON

M. K. HENDERSON “, M. PRA

R. F. JARRATT D. T. STOKES

F. W. JOHNSTON W. R. TREVERTON

Z. V. our W. R. WEAVER

J. P. McBRYDE B, A. WILSON

EDITORIAL

A LITTLE RETROSPECTION

Over three hundred years ago a faithful
and study band, bent their heads and ac-
knowledged their thanks for having been
protected and cared for in the wild new
country to which they had come from com-
fortable homes. Surrounded then by a dark
and sombre forest, fraught with dangers
which they alone could know in their real
Significance, they were thankful for their
mere existence and the few fortunate bless-
ings which seemed to them magnificent. To
them the idea of a Supreme Being caring
for their best interests every moment of
their lives was indeed distinct. They real-
ized their dangers, they were cognizant of
the many difficulties surrounding them in
their new station of life; and yet withal they
were humble and sincere, realizing their
own puny weakness and strength.

To this band of faithful men and women
who inaugurated the custom of “Thanks-
giving” it was a sacred event to set apart
one day of the year for pure thankfulness
and appreciation for the very few fortunate
events of the last year. To these people it
seemed that they were merely returning in
a small way their acknowledgement of the
numerous blessings of a merciful God. They
realized the futility of attempting to subdue
a wild and uncivilized land with their own
pitiful efforts. They knew that ‘in their
own strength they would soon be engulfed
by a ravenous country eager for fresh blood.
But with a dauntless spirit, and with a sin-

cere belief in an almighty God, they fought ’

for their very existence and were success-
ful in peopling a new continent with a for-
eign race,

From the efforts of this small band has
grown the most powerful nation on the
earth today, speaking from a material stand-
point. From a few score people settling in
a few miles of territory has developed a
country bound together from coast to coast.
It is striking to note today the different at-
titude, however, of the multitude of people
who now inhabit this country,—prosperous,
wealthy, well-cared for, successful with un-
counted advantages and blessings which ,the
first settlers never dreamed of,—the attitude
towards their position as compared with the
attitude at the first prayerful Thanksgiving.

This is no sermon, but it is appalling to

note how very unappreciative the world in .

general seems to be today. Children unap-
preciative to their parents, brother to broth-
er, friend to friend, It is more striking when
it is considered in the light of the general
attitude of the ones who founded this coun-
try. whiau’

The one day of the year set apart to show
- our appreciation to our Maker has now been
almost forgotten in its full significance,’ It
to discusss the ethical
vantages of such a sit-

avi

iment, A chance

to

y ts given over -
sleep late in

néaduckewa Editor-in-Chief |

‘considering this, we cannot help but feel

“today.

the morning, a quick Junch, a rush to see a
football game, a feast at the evening meal, |
either a dance or a show—such is Thanks- |
giving for a number of people in America
The influence of the use of such a
day is far-reaching. It certainly shows a
retrograding of interest and appreciation in
the actual meaning of the day. ;

One could argue that the reason for this
is that this is the century of speed and effi-
ciency~—the business man must have recrea-
tion and must spend it i nan efficient man-
ner, There are too many fallacies in this
argument to attempt to discuss it. But it
is true in that it represents seemingly the
attitude of the nation today. We are too busy
to be appreciative. All of our time must
be spent either in business or recreation—
these seem to be the chief aims of the aver-
age man. It would be wasteful to use time
to consider where all material wealth and
earthly profit comes from. The average
man is self made. He knows that he has
done it all himself,

But in the bustle of this life there are
times when it is best to stop and consider
things in general. To think of our condi-
tion in this life. To remember all of our
blessings and fortunate gifts. To retrospect
and see if our life has been worth while. In

that we are rather small atoms in this in-
finite universe. [Eliminating the personal
element, there are numerous things that we
must be thankful for. To consider life se-
riously one must realize the influence of
those who have passed before us, To be
thankful for what they have done, to be °
thankful for what we have, and to deter-
mine to use to the best advantage of all the
few small talents which have been bestowed
upon us, i

ee ee |
A TRIBUTE

When eleven searred gladiators in dirty |
scarlet jerseys huddle together on Richard-
son Iield this afternoon to give fifteen for
Duke a pang of sadness will pierce the
heart of every senior. For four years they
have watched these representatives of their
class and college give hours upon hours of
earnest labor and precious minutes of actual
combat with other institutions,—have seen
them perform this service unselfishly and
willingly. To each senior there will be an
‘arnest regret that no more will these grid-
iron heroes be able to represent the Red and
Black,

Few classes have had the privilege of
claiming such colorful and famed heroes.
Fewer still have claimed such modest wear-
ers of the laurel wreath. Although many
classes have had more ‘successful seasons
their last year, none have had the real spirit
of this institution so in evidence—fighting
against odds yet fighting with every ounce
of grit until the last whistle blew. The class
of '28 is indeed proud of the representatives
who today play their last football game for
their Alma Mater. These men were an ‘in-
tegral part of the machine that won the
state championship in ’26—these men were
a vital factor in an actual portrayal of the
old fighting spirit in every game this year,

There are others, however, who deserve
as much and possibly more praise. These
are the men who have never bee able to
wear the letter representing their institu-
tion. Few of them have even had the priv-
ilége of playing in an actual contest for their
own school. To the men who have labored
faithfully for four years, who have served
as foils for their more brilliant classmates,
to them also is due much praise. Their work
has been unheralded, but not unappreciated.
Much credit is due them for the type of
team that Davidson. is able to put out.

After today the senior will view football
contests with the thought that the men
playing are fighting for their comrades, for
their friends, and rot for him. ° The men
that have fought for him are also on the
sidelines. These men will witness encount-
ers with a feeling that: they are forgotten.
They will probably feel that they are no
longer needed. Their term of service has
passed and they have retired. Youth must
be served and the day of glory and honor has
passed to men other than themselves.

Today will be the last game that some
Seniors will see the machine of their Alma
Mater in actual encounter. Their interest,
however, will always be for that fighting
Davidson eleven, But the seniors today will
be outsiders. It will still be Davidson, but
another student ‘body, another group of
friends, the representatives of a newer day.

_ But to these men who have served in their
time, to the men who have represented us so
gloriously we pay all tribute. To them goes
all praise, for win or lose they have been
our representatives in a way that will al-
ways reflect glory upon us. We regret sin-
cerely that we will never see them again in
a Davidson uniform. But for all that they

have done for us we are truly appreciative.

a:

Open Forum. | Ollapodrida

The Open Forum column is always open to, dis-

cursion on any subject. All articles must be signed, |

however,and handed in to the editor before 7:00
¢. m. Monday.

RELIGION AND BEER

In several North Carolina newspapers there ap-
peared last Sunday an article which deserves
the very highest praise of intelligent Americans.
Mr. Charles W. Tillett, Sr., of the Charlotte bar,
writing under the caption “Al Smith and Fair
Play,” with a vigor and enthusiasm evidenced
deepest sincerity, presents a number of. facts that
should prove of great public interest, particiularly
to Smith’s North Carolina @pponents. .

Al Smith, the article asserts, has been most un-
justly attacked by some of the religious journals

of the day, and by many preachers and moral .

leaders. These unjust attacks would lead one to
consider him “one of the most despicable char-
acters that has ever risen in the public life of
America.” Contrary to this Mr. Tillett says that
“Smith is the great outstanding Democrat of the
whole world,” and upholds his assertion with
highly convincing proof. :

The two great reasons why many southern

Democrats oppose Smith for president is because

he is a Catholic and because of his attitude upon
the prohibition question, In regard to the first
objection, Mr. Tillett points out that it is con-
trary to one of the fundamental principles of
American liberty to place religious qualifications
on a man seeking public office. So far as Smith’s
being a Catholic is concerned, he denounces in no

uncertain terms those who are inclined to question "

the loyalty of Catholics to our government. His
words in part are: “He who avers that American
Catholics are less loyal to their government than
are the Protestants, is either a wilful maligner, an
ignoramus, or a blind bigot. The story of the
loyalty of American Catholics is written in blood
in Argonne forest; and, “in Flanders fields were
poppies grow,’ row on row of white crosses, pre-
cious symbols of our Savior’s death, stand as sen-
tinels watching over the bodies of our heroic
Catholic dead, pointing toward heaven where th

God of justice reigns in mute protest against the
foul slander that Catholics are not every whit a4
loyal to the American government as any citize

that ever lived under the Stars and Stripes.”

As to Smith’s attitude toward prohibition, we
are reminded that Woodrow Wilson, considered
by many “the prototype of a Christian Presi-
dent,” was not a prohibitionist but actually vetoed
the Volstead act. Mr. Tillet asks if it is in ac-
cord with fair play “to damn Smith to political
perdition,” and, at the same time, as one editor
apparently did, consider that “opposition to the
Volstead act on President Wilson’s part in no
way affected his high position as an outstanding
Christian President.”

o

“Please observe carefully,” he adds later, “that
I am not anywhere in this essay attempting to
minimize the strong and perfectly legitimate ar-
gument against Smith and against his candidacy
that he is an anti-prohibitionist ; but Iam only de-
fending him against the outrageously unfair argu-
ment that because he is opposed to prohibition
he is a law-breaker or a nullifier of the con-
stitution.” He further asserts that ‘it is grossly
unjust to suppose that because Smith is an anti-
prohibitionist it follows that he is also in favor
of intemperance.

The spirit of fair play and tolerence so admir-
ably exemplified in Mr. Tillett’s article, is most
concisely expressed in a single sentence, which
is quoted in the course of the discussion, and it
is this thought that every southerner shou‘d bear
in mind before condemning Al Smith without just
cause: “I hate what you say, but I will die for
your right to say it.” .Thus Smith has a perfect
right to his own sincere ideas about temperance;
nor should we condemn him for his Catholicism;
and, perhaps, as Josephus Daniels is quoted as
having said, “The Democrats should let religion
and beer alone.”

—’28.

Everyone around here is hoping that Santa
Claus will be good to us on Thanksgiving in order
that we may have something to really be thankful
for after the football contest.

Why is it that just about ten boys sign up for
the special train to be run until the last day and
then enough are obtained to warrant running the
train? For four consecutive years this has been
the case. It does look. like it would change once
in a while at any rate.

—oooOCOoO*L— SS ===

They have been worthy members of the
class of ’28 and to them all honor and glory.
is due, Our weak efforts to praise them are
entirely inadequate. To express our real
feelings it would be necessary to write vol-
umes. But let this be but one leaf in their
crown of laurel, but let it represent our real
feelings which we will never be able to ex-
press completely. ©

sm

As annual pictures are being returned for in-
spection and preparations for the year book are

being made, ambitious upperclassmen begin to re- .

count their honors and number the times that
their likeness shall appear in that publication. One
notable senior will grace its pages fourteen times,
another twelve. Such are the rewards of an active
‘ife on the campus. One sometimes wonders if
such a life is not a wekness. .The old axiom that
no man can do a variety of things well has been
proven all too often. The man entering college
will best succeed who devotes his interests to a
few well chosen organizations, according to his
talents, and gives his best to them. Success in
any line will bring student leadership to the
laborer.

That line of thought calls to mind the recent
plaint of a student at the University of Kansas
who was an “activity hound.” Said he: “Yes, I
am swamped. But there seems no way out. The
pace is set for me and I must follow it. If Idon’t
the rest of the “gang” will call me a “stick” or a
“grind,” according to the part of college life that
I neglect. I am always in a hurry. I must not
disappoint my parents or my organizations. They,
too, seem to believe that I must keep up the pace
or else be an utter failure. I want a certain per
cent of everything, but I am not satisfied with the
taste of the mixture.

I haven’t time. The Utopia of my soul, I believe,
is a place where I can do as I please, when I
p‘ease, and take all the time that I please in doing
that thing without being rushed by this demon
popularly known as “college education.”

The “activity hound” is a sort of glamorous
figure to the outsider or freshman but often he is
labelled the campus clown by those who stand off
and smile.

Foremost among college activities which be-
come problematic to college authorities is the
athletic question. Now that the football sea-
son has run its course the usual voices of d’ssent
at concentrated, commercialized, college athletics
are being raised in protest. Even the students
have taken up the cry at the University of Chicago
where the daily newspaper recently censored the
rushing of high school athleties. It seems that the
university has a regular organization which makes
it its business to garner the cream of athletes
from the best prep and high schools of the coun-
try. The students, and the students only, can put
an end to such practice, As long as the univer-
sity football team is its best advertising medium,
so long will commercialized athletics flourish.
Skould the student veto, what now seems to be
his most cherished possession in college, the whole
system will crumble. But should the present
football system perish, with its sister parasites,
one may be sure that scholarship will not be in-
creased in prominence.

Mr. Eastman, promulgator of the kodak and

originator of the statement that “if it isn’t an-

Eastman, it isn’t a kodak,” has a new problem on
his mind—the introduction of a new, more easily
understood calendar. The proposed yearly mea-
sure is composed of thirteen months (a new one
Sol being introduced between June and July), each
month having twenty-eight days. That makes
364 days. The extra day every year would be-
come New Year and the extra day every four
years would become Sol 0. The system is very
simple, one monthly ca‘endar will serve for years,
thus destroying a good part of the yearly Christ-
mas trade. Many organizations have sanctioned

the new method, including the’ League of Nations. -

No calendar has ever served the world for as
much as five centuries. We are now nearing the
finish of our alloted time with the present one.
Mr. Eastman may have success but every state
must approve the plan for its adoption in this
country. The celebration of religious ceremonies
offer the ’chief obstacle.

As mentioned in this column last week the new
Hol!and vehicle tunnel under the Hudson river has
been opened to the public at a cost of $48,000,000.
Toll for passage is fifty cents and the tunnel has
a capacityof 46,000 cars a day. So far it has been
worked to only half capacity. Even at this rate,
however, it will prove to be very profitable to the
investors. The greatest item of expense is the
ventilation system by which the air in the tunnel
is changed completely 42 times every hour by 54
gigantic fans. The time which it saves for its
users will be worth the cost many times over.

Pessimistic ‘investigators of national resources
were given a distinct setback last week when a
Teport was made on the recently discovered coal
deposits in Gillette, Wyo. Within an area of a
few square miles are veins containing 14 billion

tons and the total output of the United States since:

its discovery has been only 18 billion tons. Coal
always has been and will continue to be the
greatest source of power to our industries, If all
our available water power were converted, it
could supply only 20 per cent of our needs and
oil only a fraction of that. Our coal is our wealth.

—W. L. L.

>
