6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 3, 1927

Juniors Decide Upon

of Davidsonian as Annual Publication

In departing from the custom of previous
years of carrying out an elaborate and ex-
pensive Junior Speaking program, the class
of ’29 voted by a large majority not to fol-
low out the precedent of the three preceding
classes of issuing a special and separate pub-
lication. It was decided Monday morning
that the offer of Boyce Martin, editor of The
Davidsonian, to the effect that the college
weekly would be turned completely over to
the Juniors on the week designated by them
for the Junior Speaking program.

In accepting the offer the class is procuring
a means whereby they might issue an ade-
quate, though not expensive publication. The
“Sanity Rare” which for two years has been
published by the third-year men, has been
gotten out at a great expense in time and
money. The class recognized the fact that
this special edition of The Davidsonian will
be an effective means by which they can con-
tinue a special publication at a minimum cost.

Last year the Juniors published “Sanity
Rare,” of which Caldwell Withers was edi-
tor. This publication and the magazine of
the year before bearing the same name were
both successful but were made at a great
sacrifice, The first of the Junior publica-
tions was issued by the class of 26, three
years ago, under the name of “Saturday Eve-
ning Toast.” All of these magazines have
featured wit and humor,

Week End Guests

4

The following is a list of the fraternity
house party guests for the week-end of the
V. M. I. game:

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Lilly Van Luven,
Wilmington; Esther Elliot, Wilmington;
Ann Osteen, Sumter, S. C.; Frances Shute, :
Converse College; Ruth Cannon, Concord;
Audy Mann, Richmond, Va.; Sara Ashcraft,
N. C. C. W.; Julia Marsh, High Point;
Edna McCoy, Converse, S. C.; Dorothy

"| tivities, Frew and Neunan are Sophomores.

Alcove, S, C.; Priscilla Shaw, Sumter, S. C.;

Ethel Glidewell, Reidsville; Helen Shand,
Columbia, S. C.; Mesdames Francis Wom-
ack, Reidsville; Robert Bland, Sumpter, N.
C., H. O, Smith, Washington, D. C., and
Joe White, Mooresville, N. C.

Special Edition

Reporters Elect Three
riters to Membership

Golden Quill Presentations to be
Made Soon (

Three new men were chosen as members of
the Reporters’ Club at a meeting held last
Monday night in The Davidsonian office.
These new men elected were: Paul Fry,
Alan Frew, and Russell Neunan. November
19th was set as the date of the initiation of
these new men.

A meeting has been called for Monday
night, November 19th, at which meeting a
reorganization of the membership of the
club is planned. It was morever decided that
the Reporters’ Club would purchase immedi-
ately the Golden Quills to be given those men
whom it has elected to wear them.
Eligibility to the Reporters’ Club is based
upon the ability and perseverance in writing
of those men working on The Davidsonian
and yet not on the staff. The’ Reporters’
Club is open to men of all four classes, the
Freshmen, however, being chosen in the
psring of each year.

The three men who were elected are promi-
nent in different phases of college life . Fry,
a Junior, is a member of the Glee Club, both
orchestras, and figures in general student
affairs. Frew was president of the Fresh-
man class and is a consistent worker in Y,
M. C. A. work. Neunan is also a “Y” work-
er, a track man, and a leader in class ac-

Byers, Rock Hill, S. C.; Mary Alderman,

Elizabeth Newell, Greensboro; Elizabeth and

Classicists Elect
New Club Officers

At the first meeting of the Classical Club,
held last Thursday night, an election of the
new officers was held. W. K. Pritchett was
chosen president, and E. T. Moye made sec-
retary and treasurer.

This club was formed last year for the
purpose of stimulating interest in the classics,
on the hill, with a special interest toward
those Greek: and Latin works which should be
of interest to college students. The initial
or charter members of the Classical Club
were: J. S. Grey, who was elected presi-
dent ; W. K. Pritchett, whom they chose sec-
retary and treasurer ; H. Johnson, Dr. Hard-
ing, the head of the Greek department, and
Dr. Grey, head of the Latin department. E.
P. Moye was taken in at a later date.

Several other new members have been
taken in, among whom are Professor Vowles,
professor of German, and Professor Carr,
who is a new addition to the faculty and who
is a professor of Greek.

Ida Bothwill and Judith Hill, Winthrop Col-
lege; Sarah Austel and Charlie Hoffman,
N. C. C. W.; Elizabeth Henderson, Mary
Patterson and Julia Orr, Charlotte, N. C.;
Ruth Arrowood and Olive Singleton, Shelby;
Kitty Moms, Greer, S. C.; Louise Ruff, Con-
verse College; Elizabeth Montgomery, York,
S. C.; Mary Jane Whinton, Greensboro, N.
C.; Martha Shachner, Boone; Elizabeth Can-
nady, Oxford; Mary Moore Montgomery,
Montgomery, W. Va.

Beta Theta Pi: Penelope Cannon and
Alice Cannon York, Concord; Tommy Holt
and Irene Hough, Winthrop College; Rebie
Jones and Rachel Highsmith, Converse Col-
lege; Rose Morgan and Sally Wallace,
Greenville, S. C.; Elizabeth Story and May
Boules, Augusta, Ga.; Isabel’ Dunn and
Elizabeth Dewey, Salem; Dee Haskins,
Reidsville; Lillian Parker, Gastonia; Wini-
fred Pegram, Charlotte; Eulalee Campbell,
Anderson, S. C.; Julie Ritzius, Nashville,
Tenn., and Elise Deyerle, Bluefield, W. Va.
Pi Kappa Alpha: Elise Knobelock, Hazel

Delta Theta Chi: Misses Agnes Rice,

throp College; Katherine Chandler, Wesley-
an College; Mary McLaurin, Charlotte; An-
nette Boney, Greensboro; Edla Best, N. C.
C. W.; Paul Dillard, Durham; Betty Bryan,
Sweet Briar College, Va.; Thelma Johnston,
Lexington, N. C.

Townsend and Georgia Townsend, of Win-

3 Hundred Alumni
Attend Luneon Here

A group of alumni, estimated at approxi-
mately 300, accompanied by wives, swect-
hearts and friends, were entertained at a
special luncheon arranged in their honor at
the gymnasium on Home-coming Day. The
number of alumni attending the luncheon was
considerably in excess of the number that
had been expected, and was taken as an indi-
cation of the interest aroused among alumni

an tatl

over this innovation.

Safeg

A COMPLETE LINE OF
DRUGS AND SUNDRIES

WHITE DRUG CO.

The luncheon was served under tHe aus-
pices of the alumni council, co-operating with
“Spike” McGhee, J. T. Orsby and J. R. Mc-
Cravey, who acted as caterers. A number
of other students assisted in serving the large
number of guests.

It was generally believed prior ,to the
luncheon that alumni would prefer to take
their lunch on the campus rather than in
Charlotte or the other cities through which
they would pass en route to Davidson, and
for their convenience the alumni luncheon
was arranged. The success of the venture
presages the opinion that it will be a regular
feature of all Home-coming celebrations of
the future.

A young man who had taken his Ford out
on a cold, wintry day, was covering the en-
gine with a- blanket.

Little Boy (looking on)—“Don’t cover it
up, mister, I saw what it was.”

uard Your Assets

A FIDELITY bond on ALL employes protects a going con-
cern against loss of moneys, securities, merchandise or

erty through the dishonesty of any of its employes.

Prop-

McALISTER’CARSON ('13) Mgr.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY

’ INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

M. B. SPEIR, JR. ('26)

Henkel, Statesville. a

Kappa Sigma: Margaret Smith, Char-
lotte; Isabel Pharr, Charlotte; Charlotte
Guy, Charlotte; Margaret Monroe, Char-
lotte; Edna Carson, Charlotte; Hortense
Cobb, Rock Hill, S. C.; Hamelton Dunbar,
Rock Hill, S. C.; Hattie Carson, Winthrop
College; Edna York, Rock Hill, S. C.; Ka-
lista Hood, Davidson; Alice Caldwell, Win-
ston-Salem; Emma Holiday, Converse Col-
lege; Frances Stedman, Fayetteville; Mary
Evans, Fayetteville; Elizabeth Norfleet,
Winston-Salem; Alice Haynesworth, Green-
ville, S. C.; Mary West, Spartanburg, S. C.

Pyramid Club: Clara David Porter, Char-
lotte; A. C. Haseldon, Charlotte; Margaret
Lesnesne , Winthrop College; Marguerite
Buchanan, Asheville; Ellye Hill, Asheville;
Frances Thompson, Greensboro, N. C.; Cor-
nelia Vinson, N. C. C. W.

Kappa Alpha: Martha Robinson, Con-
verse College; Margaret Dawson, Converse
College; Rose Williams, Converse Collége ;
Frances Williams, Converse College; Tecla
Matson, Converse College; Virginia Menzies,
Converse College; Martha Erkman, Hender-
sonville; Sylvia Corall, Tampa, Fla.; Miss
Corall, Tampa, Fla.; Evelyn Wagner, Char-
lotte; Emma Cothrone, Charlotte; Miss Cal-
houn, Davidson; Bobb Metts, Sweet Briar,
Va.; Lillian Le Conte, Decatur, Ga.; Lib
Thornton, Greensboro; Miss Flowers,
Thomasville, Ga.

Phi Gamma Delta: Margaret Bailey,
Winston-Salem; Elizabeth Wharton, Char-
lotte; Ida Allison, Charlotte; Wilma Kuck,

., Wilmington; Martha Maslin, Winston-
Winston-Salem; Hazel Hudson, Salisbury ;
Nannie ‘Withers, Charlotte; Jessie Gamble,
Lincolnton; Betsy McCorkle, Salisbury ;
Frances Fletcher, Winston-Salem; “Bob”
Jenkins, Salisbury; Alice Dunklee, Winston-
Salem, ;
© Theta Upsilon Omega: Louise Garabaldi,
Charlotte ;/Mildred Biggers, Charlotte; Flor-
ence Yarborough, Charlotte; Viola Durant,
Charlotte; Ruth Lowrance, Barium Springs ;
Mildred Lee Gaston, Charlotte; Rebecca Mc-
Garity, Charlotte; Sara Withers, Davidson;
Julia McKinney, Salisbury; Virginia Hoey,
Shelby; Sara Doll, Charlotte; Evelyn
Josephs, Charlotte.

Sigma Delta: Agnes Dibble, Agnes Man-
field, Betty Tate, Virginia Wilkinson and
Evelyn” Glenn, Converse College; Agnes
Steel, Betty Steele and Martha Alexander,
S burg, S. C.; Virginia Williamson and

_ Miss ‘Burlington; Louise Brown and
- Gordon McIver, Bristol, Va.; Edith Cochran,
Charlotte, and Julie Fairy, Greenville, S. C.
_. Pi Kappa Phi: Carrol Smith, Washing-
m Weeks, Hendersonville;

ware

h Point; Libby

beres ; Sallie Schenck,

dor

the calendar

FOR THE BEST
OF GOOD REASONS

esterfield smokers
change with |

«+ebut watch how other smokers are changing to Chesterfield!

