‘THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 10, 1927

|-- Sport Talk -:-

News and Views of
Wildcat Events

By Raymond Lake

Another defeat! After a long series of
victories, it’s pretty hard to come back down
to earth again, so to speak, and suffer two
defeats in a row. The Wildcats, however,
have proven the saying that they are as great
in defeat as in victory. The two defeats are
bound to make them feel discouraged, but in-

' stead of letting their discouragement get the
best of them, they’re at it hard again this
‘week determined to make a comeback against
the Tar Heels Saturday.

The game with the Wolfpack last Satur-
day, of course, ends the Wildcats’ chances
for the State Championship, but does not in
any way make the game with Carolina any
less important. We still have a chance for
third place, and if the result of the game
Saturday is in our favor, we will be sure of
either third or fourth place. The Tar Heels,
however, will be fighting with just as much
at stake as the Wildcats, and will put out
all they’ve got to win that game.

In the game with State last Saturday, the
outstanding players for the Wolfpack were
McDowall and Warren. The latter was one
of the best backfield men with whom: the
Wildcats have come,.in contact in quite a
while. He plowed through the Davidson
line one time after another, and then when
he was caught, it would take two gs three
to pull him down. McDowall was fast and
made several long gains, but the one who
gained more through the line was Warren.
McDowall gained more around ends, on
passes, punts, etc. Goodwin, end for State,
was unusually good on the passes and scored
19 of the 25 poins for. State.

For the Wildcats, Harrison was probably
the outstanding star. He made probably the
prettiest run for the Wildcats, and made
short gains all through the game. Dick
Grey made several good gains, but seemed
not to be able to get loose quite as much as
he usually does. The State linemen played
a good game, and were through and on the
Davidson backs before they could get under
way. The toss of Johnny Melton when he
hurt his shoulder again was about the great-
est loss the line could have suffered, and was

very noticeable when he was taken out of
the game. :

The Wildkittens also suffered a defeat last

week. The Blue Imps of Duke University

were too much for them, and, although the
Wildkittens put up a good fight, they were

beaten by a score of 19 to 0. According to

the write-ups, McCall, Pope, and Goody-
koontz played an unusually good game. These
three men have been working mighty well
together in the first three games on the
Wildkittens’ schedule, and look good for
varsity material next year. The Freshmen
have only one more game on their schedule,
and have been working hard to get in shape
for the affair. They have won one game and
lost two so far, and much depends on the
outcome of the next game.

" The Carolina-V. M. I, game last Saturday
was of interest to the Davidson backers as
well as to the backers of the two schools di-

Wildcat Harriers Lose
to State College Stars

Finding itself pitted against the classiest
running outfit in the state, the Davidson
cross-country team was decisively defeated
| last Saturday over the Greensboro course, by
the score of 30-53. By the system of scor-
ing used, low score was the winning score.

A glance at the figures will show just what
brand of running the Davidson men were
called upon to face. The winning time for
the three and a half mile course was 17 min-
utes and a few seconds. This is considerably
faster running than the Davidson two-mile
record set by Clement Penn in 1925 of 10
minutes and 25 seconds. The Greensboro
course is much faster than the one here, al-
though in places it becomes very rough. It
has a fast home stretch, whereas the one at
Davidson ends with a long up-hill pull before
the finish line is reached.

Although they were beaten, the Davidson
runners turned in excellent runs that would
have won for them against other competition.
Each man cut from one to two minutes off
his fastest time, yet the best Davidson man,
“Rut” Nunan, placed seventh in the race.
Anything under 20 minutes is considered
good time for this distance, and Davidson
had four men to come in within that time.
“Rut” Nunan, Lafferty, Thrower, Beavers,
and Wilkinson, finished in the order named.

The start was made from the Memorial
Stadium during the second quarter of the
Davidson-State football game, and the run-
ners began to appear just before the whistle
blew for the end of the first half.

The State runners scored the lowest score
possible by having the first five men join
hands and finish in a tie for first place.

This meet closes the cross-country season
for this year. All the members of the squad
are new men and the prospects for Davidson
to produce a real cross-country team are
bright. Most of the members of the squad
have three years ahead, and with good time
records in their first attempt to run this race,
the additional experience of the two years’
training should make them predominate in
this sport before they graduate.

Three Conference
Teams Undefeated

Since Saturday’s games only three teams
can boast records which display no confer-
ence defeats or ties. They are Georgia, N. C.
State, and Tennessee. Georgia Tech and
Vanderbilt each have a tie against them, al-
though neither has been defeated by a con-
ference team.

Virginia, after losing three conference
games and winning two, bucked up and fur-
nished the biggest upset of the week in the
conference by defeating W. L., spoiling a
perfect record of the latter.

Ole Miss slung another upse into the con-
ference by defeating L. S. U. 12 to 0. After
giving Alabama a good scare, Kentucky lost
by the score of 21 to 7.

Standing of Southern Conference teams as

D. C. Freshmen Lose to
Blue Devil Freshmen in
Hotly Contested Affair

Blue Imps Make 19 Points to
Wildkittens 0

GAME HOTLY FOUGHT

McCall, Goodykoontz, and Pope
Show Good Form and Lead
Wildkittens’ Attack

In a battle waged back and forth but with
the advantage going to Duke, the Wildkit-
tens were defeated by the Blue Imps on
Hanes Field, at Durham, Friday, November
4th. The Duke Fresh outfit, scoring in each
period except the last, attained a total of 19
points, while the Davidson Fresh were not
able to counterbalance the scoring.

Although the Wildkittens went down to
defeat, they presented to the crowd of 2,000
three of the best Fresh backs that have been
seen in action on Hanes Field, in the person
of Goodykoontz, Pope and McCall. These
three swift backs sawed, bucked and criss-
crossed their way down the field to Duke’s
goal, only to be stopped as the Imps tight-
ened their defense before the goal line.

Staton, Haines, Murray and Rosky were
the stellar men of Duke’s attack. Station,
quick quarter, continued his brilliant playing,
making several nice. runs and crossing the
line twice for touchdowns. Murray, all-
state prep fullback of. last year, intercepted a
pass from McCall and raced 55 yards for a
touchdown!

Davidson attempted nine and completed
four passes, the Imps completing three out
of eight attempted passes. The Davidson
team had the edge on the Duke men in first
downs, making six to their opponents’ four.

The line-up:

Davidson Position Duke
Proctor scsawan sods LE sevesessscce Hayes
Marrow --.----..- 1 Uf Mapa eh ncn ey Taylor
Brock cxcsesececee HG ecsee Carpenter
Macon Center Rupp
Foil RG Corte
Covington ~-...--_ Riles ester neue Adkins
Johnson RE Rosky
Goodykoontz + QB Staton
Popes subse | 11S Gaara cee Haynes |.
David RH Murray
Fraley <.-...2..2. FB Gobbel

Another Delt—“I see that you are rais-
ing a mustache, Bill.”

Bill—“Who told you so?”—Iowa Frivol.

Most of the girls now have impromptu
complexions. They make them up as they
go along.—Wesleyan Wasp.

Judge—“How can you prove your in-
nocence?”

Prisoner—“Give me time.”

Judge—“Ten

years,” — Pennslyvania
Punch Bowl.

Tar Heels and Wildcats
to Meet at Chapel Hill

Carolina Has Won Only One Game
This Year

When the Tar Heels and Wildcats meet
each other in their annual clash at Chapel
Hill Saturday, it will be with the same spirit
of fight that has always characterized this
particular game.

Although the Wildcats have been literally
eliminated -from the race for State Cham-
pionship honors, they have returned to prac-
tice determined to muddle up things a bit
and not be content with a cellar position. If
the Wildcats carry out this determination by
winning from Carolina and Duke, then they
will have accomplished their purpose.

So far this year Carolina has played seven
games, winning only one game by a one point
victory from Maryland. The Tar Heels
have lost to Wake Forest, V. M. I., N. C.
State, Ga. Tech, S. C. Univ., and U. of Tenn.

A review of her opponents shows that she
has met some of the strongest teams in the
Southern Conference, and did well to hold
them to such close scores; the highest score
made on them was 26 points by Tenn. Caro-
lina has run up a total of 26 points as against
45 for her opponents.

On the other hand the Wildcats have play-
ed seven games, won four, tied one and lost
two. The scores show that the highest score
made on Davidson was 25 points by State.
The Wildcats have scored 75 points as
against 60 by opposing teams, though the
Wildcats have not met as many strong teams
as Carolina has.

Duke and State will battle Friday at Dur-
ham for first and second places in the realm
of state honors. It appears that Wake For-
est has already cinched third place, so that
leaves Davidson and Carolina to fight it out
for fourth place,

The following are the scores for the Caro-

OPPONENTS’ SCORES

Furman ------- 53 W. Forest ----- 0
V. M. I, -----. 7 Carolina ------ 0
Georgia —------ 28 Florida ------- 0
Clemson ------ 13 Citadel -~------ 0

Sophomores Beat

Seniors, 25 to 15

In the first. game of the second round
of the inter-class basketball tournament
the Sophomores continued their trium-
phal march toward the title by defeating
the Seniors 25 to 15 Monday night.

So far the Sophomores have defeated
every class at least. once and have won
from the Seniors twice. In view of this
fact it seems as if the Sophomores have
practically cinched the title.

In the game Monday night the final
outcome was never in doubt. The Sopho-
mores started scoring early in the game
and were never headed by the Seniors.
When it became”evident that the Sopho-
mores were destined to win, they ran in
substitute after substitute until a whole
new team was on the floor. D. K. Miller
started for the Sophomores. Substituting
for Mauze, he ran up a total of eight
points, being eclipsed i nthe race for high
point honors only Pritchett, who ran up
a score of ten points. Kugler played the
best game for the Seniors. He was third
high point man of the game, making a°
total of seven points.

The line-up was as follows :

Seniors Sophomores
Johnson, H. (4) ---------- Pritchett (10)
ae Forward
Withers (4) ------------------ Moore (0)
Forward
Shaw (0) ---------- Johnston, F. W. (4)
Center
Ketigler( (7) -cseccseeecccneonces Baker (0)
Guard
Halls (ro;ecstecelcaeteecess ous Mauze (2)
Guard
Substitutions: Seniors, Murchison for

Johnson; Sophomores, Smith for Prit-
chett, Orr for Moore, Gardner for John-
son, Halverstadt (2) for Baker, Miller (8)
for Mauze, and Heffner (1) for Pritchett.
chett.

lina tnd) this season. Gases es Gaia ie 26
Carolina_------ 8 Wake Forest ------- Wi Gaeitart63.0°6 Ny ObGtate <2. 50 19
Carolina...--.-- 7 Maryland ---------. 6] Carolina___--___ 0 Ga. Tech -.-.------ 13
Carolina._....--- 6 South Carolina ....- 14! Carolina’_______ OR Rn Titoiccusca- 7

ever met a

Sidewalk

|

sd

rectly interested. The Cadets played the : : AX you walk down the Avenue, think
Wildcats the week before, and piled up a 20 diag 08, TORE AR ted CONCH: BIG FIVE SCORERS ’ of the shoes that pound hard side-
: ; SNNGsHeG co oes ce cS 4 0 0 Player College Td. Ex.Pt. F.G. T’tl. :
to 0 score on the Wildcat’s home field, and Won Lost Tied|] Jankoski, Duk i 0" BI walks all day long! No wonder many
then were able to push the ball across but one ; : pi incor Mio eal men think first of sturdiness and often
i 3 : Georgiatcce ae ce 4 °0 0 Adams, Duke ---- 6 0 0 36
ime against the Carolina eleven. Of course, : P neglect the appearance of their feet.
; ; Georgia Tech ~---...-2---- 42305 Goodwin, State-. 0 0 O 36
the folly of trusting comparative scores has N.C. Stat gin Sig S 6 bn. ae < 5
been demonstrated many times: but, feverthe-|-.) > 8*© --------------- Warren, State -- Did they but knowit—a Bates Eight would
y times; but, neverthe= | vanderbilt 2 0 110 Grey, David Sew ol 396 A :
less, the outcome of the two games just men- Wei ome | bla nite ee Rae oy ae _ give them all the service and all the stur-
tioned makes us realize even more strongly Clemioa ete ae ‘ ee a eet 1 diness—and smart style besides. You can
that the game with Carolina will be a great| yg 7. 9 et re ae tate_ eae aR be proud of your footwear if you wear
battle. Both teams have lost several games, LS.U. er Grane : ae foi BR Ege the Bates Eight, Fifth Avenue boasts no
and: both will be fighting to get just as near Maryland a ee Sheng ay Flynn ah as ar 0. Oo 8 models more authentically correct.
a top. as poesibie, The Tar Heals: leti.%0| 7 otnis 3. 3  Olf Buie, Duke -___- di led Bo For use just now-—we suggest a medium
the Wildcats last year, and if they get to- Florida 2 2 0 Nisbet, David 200 12 wee decchas oxford sh
ther at any time this year and play like ; aA ana ca 8 vier hcl he
ge Ole Miss \ ooo cosets. Y Haas Yared *Capp, Carolina l0° 0.428 the newest fall styles!
they were expected to at the first of the year, | South Carolina ne Z 2 3 Ol} Outen, State os 1 1 0 7:
it will be against Davidson on the 12th. Mii A 4M. te ON Week vita 1 ree ee And you can be sure of an accurate,
iy i careful foot-fitting service with our new
V. P.I. 1" 2 0 Harrison, Dav.-- 1 0 0 6 A ic F M . P
V.M.I 1 3 O/f Ward, Carolina. 1 0 0 6 BEQMAES LODE DHAOIVENE PRO
_The programs which were sold at the Da-| Tulane 9 anne” Gees | Farrell, Carolina. 1 0 O00 6 Above we show the Bradford—$8
vidson-V. M. I. game and which are to be| N.C. : 1 5 0}} Young, Carolina. 1 0 0 6
sold at the Davidson-Duke game here on| Sewanee 0 3 Oj] Lake, Duke _.... en eee ee > | Me
Thanksgiving, should satisfy a great need| Auburn 0° 4 -11) Leo Ste. 1-0 0 6 B e
here at Davidson. Programs of this type|Kentucky ----------------- 0 4  O\f Crum, State ___- eo ee & a l
-are useful and handy for backers of the home Hunsucker, State 1 0 0 6
team as well as for visitors, and should re-| you're only young once, but if you|¢ Hillingsworth,Dk. 1
4 , gS . 0 0 6 AR aa
ceive the support of the student body. Both | work it right, once is enough—Ollapod.. |( Hackney, W.F... 1 0° 0 6: Featured exclusively ins our Shoe Department |
of ‘the co have expressed themselves as 3 Ae Kelly, Duke. 0 4 0 4 rl 9 ‘
_ «being highly in favor of the programs, and| First Drunk—“Yeh, I give m'wife ali- Jue We 0 1 ee | EFIRD S
=the student body would do-well to beck.the|mony.” Beare *McConnell, Dav. 0 0 0 2 | ae ait ,
dex ‘thus make it possible for these pro-| Second. Drunk — “Washi dif? I give “Whisnant, Caro. 0 1 010. HH = 2 Lea tate ane ar
every game played-on} my wife all m’money, too—Colgate Ban-|] — eccored safety. joa | ; LETS | |
|. Iter. : See si pielai bciaddoaptaaldsiaih i —J|'

