THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 3, 1927

Stellar Davidson Half

Given National Praise

Eleven New Students Enter College __
to Resume Second Semester’s Work

TO SELECT MANY NEW BOOKS

LIBRARY COMMITTEE MEETS |
|

On Thursday of the past week the Library
Committee held its regular mid-year meeting
for the discussion of books, and the selection
of those needed by the professors of the
various departments, and those suggested by
the students. This meeting is one of the
three that the committee has each year, and
the orders that it sent contain many titles that
will be valuable additions to the library.
Leading among the novels are: “Bellarion,”
by Rafael Sabatini; “Trailmakers of the
Middle Border,” by Hamlin Garland, and
others by Walpole, Tarkington and the more
popular present-day novelists. In addition to
these are reference books of History, Philo-
sophy, Medicine, Psychology, and Biology,
making a rather large order for this season
of the year.

It would perhaps be of interest to the stu-
dents to know that it is posible for them to
suggest titles of books which they would
think helpful, for the consideration of the
Library Committee. The library year be-
gins in May, and the largest orders of the
year are placed in the hands of the publishers
to be filled during the summer. In addition
to these regular meetings, others are called
when it is necessary to fill emergency orders,
both for the professors or the students.

In the past, few weeks there have been a
few additions to the library that are worthy
of note. The wife of the late Owen Neill
Brown, prominent New York attorney, and
alumnus of Davidson College, presented the
college with a set of Alden Chester’s “Courts
and Lawyers of New York,” in memory of
her husband. This set is in four’ volumes,
and contains the lives and works of the most
prominent New York lawyers and judges.
In addition to these, the library has been for-
tunate in ‘securing the “Paton’s Digest,” a
new set, and rich in citations of noted cases,
and law procedure. A third addition is a
book of “Literary Contrasts,” by C. Alphonso
Smith. This book is full of masterpieces of
literature arranged in such a way as to con-
trast works that have similarity in thought
content. These three latest acquirements serve
to increase the importance of the library as
a source of invaluable reference material,
and should prove of great help to the
students. 6

THE VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE

Jackson Twins are
Chosen as Masco's

At a recent meeting of the Senior class,
the six-year-old Jackson twins, Edward and
Eleanor, were chosen as mascots. They were
unanimously elected and will serve as the

functions where mascots are required.

~ Mark Twain once said, “There are two
things that you never expect; they are twins.”
This may or may not be so, but as far as can

mascots of the class of '27 at all its public |

| Dick Grey Heralded as Great Player

| by Many Papers of the Country

Students and faculty are glad to welcome
1I additions to the student body for the
——— spring semester. All except one of these
| Dick Grey has been heralded as a great | men, J. K. Jones, of St. Petersburg, Fla., are
| football player in the newspapers of North | old men who withdrew from school last year.
| Carolina in numerous stories during past sea- | Jones comes from the University of Florida
j sons, but he has recently been spoken of in | and will take up first-year work. Three
the papers throughout the entire United | other men, E. H. Clarke, of Greensboro, N.
| States. A cut of this stellar halfback with|C,; H. D. Cashion and T. G. Johnson, of
jan appropriate summary of his work during | Davidson, N. C., are also entering as fresh-
| the past season has been sent out to papers | men,
| who subscribe’ to membership in the N. E. A.
Service.

The only senior in the number is W. B.
Mattison, of Anderson, S. C., who was forced |

‘and John M. Currie, of Fayetteville, N. C.,

have returned to school. Melton will be re-
membered ‘as a_ sensational guard on the
Wildcat eleven last year, while Currie holds
the Davidson record for the hundred-yard
dash. Both of these men are members of the
class of '28.

W. C. Buchanan, of Broadway, N. C., an-
other member of the Junior class, who with-
drew during the early past of last year, is

!also among the number of old men that are

returning.

be discovered, the idea of having twins for| , The article stated that “Dick Grek, of Da-
mascots of a class of Davidson College is a | vidson College, North Carolina, little herald-
unique idea introduced by the present Senior | ed in the papers, was one of the outstanding
| players in the South. During the season he

class. |e. Rone Mas -S :
The most important function at which the | kicked six field goals and in four games his
ability to boot the ball over the bar kept Da-

mascots will be required to serve will prob- |“, P
ably be the graduating exercises at the end | vidson from defeat. His punts have averaged
of the year. .But the very prospect of walk- | ‘2 an A al BEG IBS PHAR Eee!
: : : | open-field runner.

ing down the aisle holding Joe McConnell’s | °P&™"* : :

| This picture and write-up were noticed by
| Davidson students in papers received here
from distant places, among which were the
(Ga.) “Ledger,” the , Richmond

hand, and leading the whole Senior clas, is
enough of an honor to make up for all the |
time they have not been serving officially. |
When last seen, they express themselves as | Columbus
willing, even eager, to serve. Mr. Jackson, | (Va.) “Times-Dispatch,” the Mineral Wells
their father, as well as the Davidson College | (Tex.) “Daily Index,’ the Charleston
treasurer, assented to their being the mascots. | “News and Courier,” Greenwood, Miss., and
others.

This N. E. A. Service is sent out weekly
in the form of mats to be made up by the
newspapers using it and boasts of covering

FOSTER WHEELER

(Continued from page 1) la field that is quite large in extent.
thousands of acres of forests, and of how |

men in the forestry service had lost their |
lives in an attempt to save these forests.

Not only is this good publicity for Digk
Grey, but it is also fine for the college in that
the name of Davidson as producing a win
ning team is broadcasted throughout distant
states, attracting the attention not only of

Mr. Wheeler also gave some statistics to
show what the National
also the various State Governments are doing |

Government, and |

lto withdraw from school during last year on
} account of illness,

John McNeely, the Charlotte boy who was
seriously injured in an automobile accident

| last Armistice Day, has thoroughly recovered
and is taking up his work again.

Football and track fans will be interested
to know that J. W. Melton, of Deeatur, Ga.,

athletes but of people interested in colleges
and their activities.

Two prospective baseball pitchers, D. G.
; Ogden, of Greensboro, N. C., and J. H.
Meadows, of Oxford, N. C., are also among
the old men back. Ogden pitched for the
Wildkittens during his freshman year, but
was forced to withdraw from college on ac-
Owing to the
fact that it was his first year at Davidson,
Meadows played with the freshmen last sea-
Both of these men have been playing

count of illness last spring.

son,
during the summer and are in good shape for
work this spring.

We Si wa tawn =

(a

Everything a good Drug Store
can supply

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

DAVIDSON, N. C.

(orrerre rrr

to build up and to conserve our forests, and |
urged the students to take more interest in
this important work. He pointed, out several
the great amount of
which the forests do, such as returning the
moisture to the atmosphere so that it may be
sent back again in the form of rain, and hold-
ing the soil firm on the banks of streams and |
on the sides of mountains. This latter fact, |
Mr. Wheeler said, is of special economic im- |
portance. The great Roosevelt Dam and the | °

facts to show good

up with silt, he said, and if something is not
done soon to stop this, all the money which
was spent, and which is being spent on these

INSTITUTE

(Continued from page 1)
Psychology at Davidson and now with the
State Department of Education, will deliver
a lecture covering the various features of this
field. There will also be present, aiding in
the instruction, some city superintendents of |
schools from nearby places.

|
The next week a study of the ministry will |
be undertaken, and although no speaker has |
as yet been chosen for that Wednesday night, |
it can be assured that a man with a real |
knowledge of his professional: work will be |
on hand. This will absolutely not be an in-
spirational call for anyone, but merely the
requirements, seminary work, and actual
preaching as a profession will be covered in
a purely practical and sound way.

The law profession will be given attention
the fourth week, while the following week
some form of business, either banking, sales-
manship, retailing or advertising will be
given. For the last week for the institute’s
work textile engineering, tentative as yet,
will be on the schedule.

Announcements as to particulars of sub-
jects and other speakers will be given later,
as will also times for meetings and other
data be announced at chapel hours.

CALENDAR

Thursday, February 3
6:45—Literary Societies — Eumenéan
Society; Philanthropic Society.
7 :30—Basketball—Duke vs. Davidson.
Friday, February 4
8:15—International Relations Clhb.
9:00—Alpha Phi Epsilon.
Saturday, February 5
7 :30—Movie — Winning of Barbara
Worth—Gym.
Sunday, February 6
1:45—Christian Endeavor
Class—Shearer Hall.
2:30—Ministerial Band—Shearer Hall.
6:15—Y. M. C. A. Vespers.
Monday, February 7
7 :00—Glee Club Performance—Shear-
er Hall.
7:30—Court of Control—Parlor of
West.
9:00—Omicron Delta Kappa.

Training

| students,

great projects, will-have been thrown away.

|
dam at Muscle Shoals also are both ia
|

| If trees were planted along the shores of
| these streams to hold the soil and to make it |

. |
| more firm, a great deal of this could be |

| stopped. |
In conclusion, he quoted a few lines from
the poem, “A Tree,” and expressed his ap- |
preciation for heing allowed to speak to the |

GLEE CLUB

(Continued from page 1)

|
|
|
|
rendered. The entire chorus, the |
tet and soloists will render selections |
supplemented by the jazz and symphony |
orchestra. Ed Wilson, one of the most |
gifted singers at Davidson in many years |
will be featured as a soloist. Ed was |
out of school last year and the members |
of the two underclasses will have their |
first opportunity of hearing him. He}
was one of the leading attractions on the |
stunt night program and scored a great |
hit at that performance. |

The Northern trip, scheduled to take |
place next week has been cancelled owing |
to the inability of the managers to ar-|
range dates with the various colleges.
Offers have been received from Lenoir,
Spartanburg, and Greenville but as yet |
none have been accepted. The mana-|
gers are trying to arrange other South |
Carolina trips in order that a trip may be
taker to. the Palmetto State next month. |
The Junior Class of Converse wished to!
sponsor ‘a performance last Saturday |
night but this could not be arranged, be-|
cause it was impossible for the club to
practice during examinations, feel

The Monday night performance prom-
ises to offer a variety of musical talent
and a large attendance is expected.

On Tuesday evening, January 8th, the
Civic Club will give a house warming at |
its new hall on South Main Street. The
club moves from the old hall to the new
one on Tuesday, February Ist. The vil- |
lage library in connection with this club

His rarru unconquerable, his passion for
work irresistible, his accomplishment not sur-
passed in the annals of invention, Thomas
| Alva Edison has achieved far more than man-

kind can ever appreciate. February eleventh is
the eightieth anniversary of his birth.

Wherever electricity is used—in homes, in busi-
ness, in industry—there are hearts that are con-
sciously grateful, that humbly pay him homage.

OW=

will be open in the new hall at the same
hours.

Dr. W. L. Lingle, of Richmond, chair-
man of the Board of Trustees, spent

Tuesday here on college business. |

GENERAL ELECTRIC
