THE DAVIDSONIAN,

MAY 5, 1927

EX-CONGRESSMAN C. R. HOEY

ADDRESSES

Mr. C. R. Hoey, distinguished lawyer
and ex- -congressman delivered the eve-
ning vesper address at Shearer Hall last
Sunday night. Mr. Hoey is a noted law-
yer and one of the best speakers in the
South. He was born in this neighbor-
hood and because of his fine qualities and
wonderful personality he was called to
serve as congressman. In this office he

served with great efficiency, always
showing himself eager to better the con-
ditions and improve the laws of our coun-
try.

“There’s an inspiration,” declared Mr.
Hoey, “In talking to you men. I am a
man just like you. We as men of today,
with all. its opportunities and evil temp-
tations confronting us, need defense. The
Bible has inspiration, and all its readers
and the people who study it will admit
that it needs no defense. Just the mere
reading of it gives us inspiration. We as
young men of today need Assistance to
overcome the many evils that béset our
nation as ‘a whole. As we go on through
college we are impressed day by day,
more and more, that we cannot afford to
fail. We must not ‘for the sake of those
that are sacrificing for us.’ And then
there is that sweet and wonderful con-
solation—take Jesus into your life and
you will never fail. No matter how
strong a man is or how many temptations
he can overcome, he is powerless without
Jesus at his side. We all study, about
the theology: of the past, of Adam and
other characters, but all this matters not
if we know that Jesus dwells with man.
I am glad that in this twentieth century
that we have a religion which reveals to
us the goodness of God and ideals by
which we should live. Aren’t you glad
that you absolutely know that there is a
living God that is watching over us and
loving us?

We all look back over: the past vents
and see how Christianity has developed
and modelled us a Christian. It is won-
derful! Look at India, China, and Tur-
key—over 90 per cent can neither read
nor write. It is Christianity which has
caused us to progress as a nation, and
why can’t we as those who make up the
nations see that that is’ all we need to
progress?

When Jesus came into this world to
set down new and wonderful principles
the people’s vision was broader. He came
to challenge the selfishness of this
world. We are only moved to challenge
the selfishness of this world, we are only
moved by the calamities which occur in
this world now. The entire world is
finding new inspiration. We need to,
progress in this day with its: wonderful
epportunities, we are following Jesus too
far away, we need to get closer to the
hem of his beautiful garments to follow
him. We see the development and trans-
formation of Peter. If this wonderful
religion can transform Peter we know
that it can transform us. It can give us
the great power of overcoming tempta-
tions. The religion which is only shown
on dress parade occasion is not what we
want, but the kind we want is the reli-
gion of Jesus. If we could think of Jesus
as being just a nice gentleman; then it
must have been wonderful to talk to
him and associate with one of such great
ability. We should always-be trying to
be like him.

There were many other important and
inspiring thoughts that could be found in
Mr. Hoey’s speech. All who attended the
service were very much impressed and
helped by Mr. Hoey’s splendid talk.

MARTIN ELECTED

(Continued from page 1)

In connection with the last-named speech
the federation went on record as being in
favor of R. O. T. C. in American colleges
and Universities. Though the question of
affiliation with the F, C. S. A. was brought
up, decision “was postponed until next year.

The meet with Wake Forest last Saturday
‘was interesting in'more ways’ than one. ‘In
the first place, the Wildcats, came out on the
Jong end of an 88 to ‘38 score, taking 11 of
the 14 first places, Currie’s lowering the
college record’ .3’ of a’ point was, of ‘course,
the outstanding thing in the meet. A man
“who can run the 100 in ten flat is considered
» mighty good, but when a man pulls it down
9 and 7-10¢hs' setorids; we're ready to take

VESPER SERVICE

Young People Plan
Annual Conference

The ninth annual Presbyterian Young

| People’s League Conference will open at

Davidson on June goth and continue
17th.
riculum will include:

through June The general cur-

Bible Study, Mis-
sions, Stewardship, a. Study of the
Church, Sunday School, and Methods for
Young People’s Societies.

For the past eight years the League
Conference has met at Davidson; the
first three sessions were open to all the
states in the Southern Presbyterian
Church, but when North Carolina began
to have such a large delegation it was
decided to make the Davidson Confer-
ence a North Carolina assembly of young
people. Under the new policy the con-

>| ference has thrived for five years and

each year the enrollment has grown
larger so that it is expected that the
1927 conference will reach the 350 mark.

A Board of Directors corhposed of |
Synod’s Committee and Synodical Aux-
iliary Committee on Young People’s
Work has entire charge of the Young
People’s Presbyterian Conference. The
board has secured some of the ablest
speakers in the Presbyterian Church to
teach, speak, and counsel the young peo-
ple for this year. The program which
the board has planned prévides for a
complete threefold instruction, being
equally balanced with spiritual, mental
and physical features.

Each college in North Carolina which
is under the direction of the Presbyterian
Church will be allowed five delegates at
the conference, but these delegates must
represent some organization or some
church which shall provide for their con-
ference fee; otherwise the students will
have to obtain work which will enable
them to pay off this fee.

Forensic Officers
Elected for Year

Last week the Forensic Council elected

vidson, vice-president, and Jeff Garrison,
secretary- -treasurer, as its officers for the
coming year. The old council was com-
posed of L. D. Wharton, C. W. Williams,
Henry. Powell, Chalmers Davidson, C. G.
Davis, and Jeff Garrison.

Henry Powell, of the rising Senior
class, has been prominent in debating and
oratorical work ever since his first year
at~Davidson. He was on the Freshman
debating team and has been on the Var-
sity debating team for the past two years.
He served as secretary-treasurer of the

ber of Alpha Phi Epsilon honorary fra-
ternity. He is also a member of Pi Kap-
pa Phi social fraternity.

Chalmers Davidson and Jeff Garrison
are also promient men on the campus
and are very well known. |

The function of the Forensic, Council is
to arrange the schedule of the debaters
for both the Varsity and Freshman De-
bating tearms. This year a more exten-
sive schedule was arranged than ever be-
fore. It included the northern trip, the
V. P. I. trip, and several trips of smaller
importance and less distance. The coun-
cil is to be complimented on having done
such good work this year in arranging a
larger schedule and in planning the work
of the debating teams so well.

The secretaries of the council will be
announced later.

She—‘Am I your father?”
He—"“No, why?”
She—“Then quit pawin’ me.”

Prof. (on the street)—“Do you know
who I am?”

Stude—“No, sir, but if you can re-
member your address, I’ll take you
home.” .

A Short Love Story
Couple - Candy-Cupid- Car- Congratula-

Contentment-Curtain.

$he lay in his arms and snuggled her
head against his neck—A rush of emotion
surged over her and she closed her eyes
in delight,

“Poor kitty, did T'step on your tail? ©

‘and-give ‘him the floor.

Henry Powell, president, Chalmers Daw]

Forensic council last year and is a mem-%

tions-Church-Choir -Cake-Confetti-(Child- |

’CATS OUTFIT GOBBLES

(Continued from page 1)

*Hit for Davis in ninth.

Score by innings: R H E
VetPieli suescsieces 024 200 200—10 8 5
Davidson 100 600 010— 2 11 12

Summary—Sacrifice hits: Davis, Harrison,
McGeachy ; stolen bases: Alexander, Tomko,
Mattox, Willey, Woodham, Dulin, Harrison;
left on base: V. P. I. 2, Davidson 14; base
on balls: off Handy 4, off Sexton 3; struck
out: by Handy 1, by Wells 4, by Meadows 2;
hits: off Handy 6 with 7 runs in 4 innings,
off Sexton 5 with 1 run in 5 innings, off
Wells 8 with 10 runs in 7 innings, off Mea-
dows 0 with 0 runs in 2 innings; winning
pitcher: Handy; losing pitcher: Wells; um-
pire: Simmons,

N. C. ACADEMY OF SCIENCES

(Continued from page 1)
J. H. Swartz, W. C. Coker, W. T. Alex-
ander, H. H. Braxton, A. B. Couch, Paul
M. Paterson, Velma Matthews, S-G-Gollins,
Otto Stuhlman, Jr., J. W. Lasley, A. W.
Hobbs, and ‘Collier Cobb.

Duke: <A. S. Pearce, F. J. Holl, F. G.
Hall, Walter M. Nielson, and C. W. Ed-
wards,

Carson and Newman: J. D. Ives.

N. C. C. W.: Archie D. Shaftsbury.

Greensboro College: Ella M. Martin.

Davidson: John H. Davis, Jr.

Guilford: G. Herbert Cole.

R. W. Leiby, of the Agricultural Experi-
ment Station; Frederick A. Wolf, of the U.
S. Department of Agriculture, andj. O.
Halverson, of the State Department of Ag-
riculture, will also present papers to the
Academy.

The men who will present papers to the
Chemical Society are: L. F. Williams, J. O.

Brooks, O. B. Hager, Jr., P. M. Ginnings,
L. A. Bass, F. C. Vilbrandt, A. R. Green,
Johannes S. Buck, C. L. M. Thomas, Paul
Gross, Henry K. Miller, J. T. Dobbins, J.
B. Bullitt, Jr., H. A. Ljung, H. B. Arbuckle,
and O. J. Theis, Jr.

The paper read by Dr. Arbuckle and Pro-
fessor Theis will be of especial interest to
the students because it concerns rather
amazing discovery which Dr. Arbuckle and
Professor Theis made recently. The classes
in Chemistry were acquainted with the work
at the beginning and kept in touch with it
daily through Dr, Arbuckle’s explanations
and were very much interested in the out-
come, and will probably be very. much inter-
ested in the opinion of the Academy about
the matter. The title of the paper will be
“A Zinc Spot in Cole’s Test for Arsenic.”

The officers of the Academy are: Presi-
dent, Bert Cunningham; vice-president, F. E.
Rice; secretary and treasurer, H. R. Totten.
The executive of the Chemical society are:

L. B. Rhodes.

Energy

A man entered a railroad yard and ap-
plied for a job,

“What can you do?” asked the fore-
man.
“Anything,” was the reply.
“Here,” said the foreman, “take this oil
can and oil the points and crossings up
the line.”

as he started up the line.

a telegram which read: “Arrived Detroit.
Fowad moe oil. ich

Wier ly ABR HPOA E
Alexander, 2b ---------- 5° 2 1.2.0
Deal, 88 seesonccc cause Sle 20
‘Tomko, -$b-=-=s-=s-z==2 Gyeetijers bec poy Jorg
Mattox, If oceccsuieo.. 421200
Gallttp, ch docccculscccsc 4.212.120
Willey; 1) sccccascesccs 41111 00
Arrington, rf ---------- 411.3 0 0
SMithG wousccccccecce. 400200
Handy; p sobossescs ol. 21 1.0 3112
SéXt0n) Pocosssesesssise 200011

Motalsiucesdedvsontcs 39 10 8 QZ 10 5
Davidson. ABR HPOA E
Woodham, 1b ---------- 42 210 0 2
Davisy tf soccscsesssucl 30 0 1-01
Ratchford, If ---------- SF 34. 01
Jonnson; cf oscc2sl5.055 Seale le 20
DUlit} Sb ssuscscccossT be O Zl On
lakes, Ay ore Gl (He ah ll
Littlejohn, ss ~--------- Kl be) be pen |
McGeachy, c ----------- Al a7) ee
Welle procedcesiessecss 4 1 0.0 2:2
Meadows, p ------------ 100010
MGfaWwiOrd seouccauscsen 101000

Totalssccusssssswsese= 38 8 11 27 10 12!

Halverson, F, E. Rice, A. S. Wheeler, F. P..

Chairman, J. T. Dobbins, and the secretary, E

“All. right, boss,” replied: the workman, 4,

Three days later the foreman received |

SOPHS MAKE PLANS

(Continued from page 1)
ule of happenings will be published in due
time on the bulletin boards of the different

dormitories so that the individal Freshmen
and the class as a whole will thoroughly un-
derstand its duty. This step taken will en-
able the program of the day to be run off
| with the least possible delay and the fullest
| co-operation of the Fresh with those, spon-
soring the affair. All Freshmen will be com-
pelled to remain on the Hill the 14th and
devote their best in every way in making this
present Soph Day one long to be remembered.
The only plans announced are the conven-
tional burning of the caps and the resultant
climax, after whic hthe Fresh can again
raise their heads to the skies and be proud to
bear the name of Freshmen. An added at-
traction to the day will be house parties,
something the actors of the day will certain-
ly look forward to, as it is well known the
effect to be gained from having one’s girl see
her Freshman Johnny parade before her eyes
in all his pristine glory, will lend sympathy
and inspiration to her friend—one indeed in
| need,

| SENIORS SELECTED

(Continued from page 5)
Club ‘was followed on Tuesday night by

held, in accordance with
custom, in the “gymnasium,
men were formally installed as members.

Personal

Concord Presbyterial met Wednesday
and Thursday of last week for their an-
nual meeting. Some of the principal
speakers were: Mrs. S. H. Askew, Rev.
R. S.' Arrowood, Dr. McLaughlin, and
Dr. Darby Fulton.

Miss Sarah Withers, winner in a state-
wide French com@test conducted through-
out the statin schools, went to Chap-
el Hill to receive her award, a beautiful
loving cup.

Mr. K. J. Foreman conducted a mission
class for teachers at Durham during the |
past week. The classes were held in the
First Presbyterian Church of that city.

Mr. J. P. Williams and Dr. Darby Ful-
ton attended the lecture of Judge Lindsay
in Charlotte last week.

The townspeople responded quickly
and liberally to the call of the Red Cross

lin their fund for Mississippi relief work.

Mrs. A. B. Robson left Wednesday

jnight for Haddon Field, N. J., accom-
more secret and more awe-inspiring rites, |

panied by’ her son, Mr. Charles Robson,

immemorial | an instructor at the University of North
when the | Carolina, to attend the wedding of her

other son, Dr. George Robsom.

Striped Shirts

that will make the tiger jealous
and the zebra wild--yet--these
shirts are the height of style.

Socks and ties complete the story.

MELLON’S

CHARLOTTE,

N. C.

WHITE DRUG CO. 3

Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach
and Goldsmith

_ ‘Myers Hardware and Sporting: Gocds nas
_ CHARLOTTE, ‘N.C,

