TieDA VID SONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XV.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 15, 1927

No. 14

—-

Dr. D. A. Robertson Delivers Annual
Phi Beta Kappa Address in Shearer Hall

‘D’ Club Neophytes

Several Hundred Attend Public

Initiation Ceremonies

FOURTEEN INITIATED

Methods of Measuring Ideal of
Scholarship attacked by Mem-
ber of Education Council

Several hundred people who attended the
public initiation ceremonies of the Phi Beta
Kappa national scholastic fraternity last night
with the expectation of hearing scholarship
extolled as the infallible measure of man,
were surprised when Dr. David A. Robert-
son, of Washington, D. C., member of the
American Council on Education and former
dean of the University of Chicago, threw a
bombshell into the ranks of bookworms,
grade-grubbers and pedants by branding stich
a measure as deceptive.

Dr. Robertson, recognized as a pioneer in
the movement to bring ‘education to the
masses in America and to lift American col-
leges and universities to a plane on which
they can compare favorably with leading
foreign institutions, scored in no uncertain
terms the old idea that scholarship was the
most accurate measure of
for success,

a-man’s chances

Publicly Initiated

¢ ee

According to the latest copies of the “Daily
Helper,” so generously distributed by news-
boy Pat Harmon on last Thursday, the first
public “D” Club initiation of the year was a
complete success. This periodical, which
was brilliantly illustrated throughout, gave
a very satisfactory survey of the afternoon's
demonstration, and the news it contained was
“good to the last drop.”

Prepared for the worst, the colored band,
led by Drum Major McConnell, appeared on
the scene in triumphal march promptly at
3:00 o'clock to present the most prolific en-
tertainment that-has ever-been witnessed on
the campus. Mlle’ Shoeman Shrink accom-
panied the troupe Madame Fifi,

as and

though she appeared in a much abbreviated |
costume, she was able to garner a good bit |

of interest from the innocent bystanders by
the sale of discarded ducks, selling at a pen-
ny apiece.” Council laws were flouted when
Mandy and Grappler Robinson went the
rounds of the audience boldly dispensing red

shellac, which bore the guarantee of ‘curing |
j lowing this the Wildcats meet both Furman

and angina pectoris,
rais-

chillblains, fever, dropsy,
and also removing stains from clothing,

Fifteen Games Listed
on Basketball Schedule

Seven Teams Play Here

University of North Carolina Will
Come Here

TWO TRIPS

First Game of Season Will be Played
Saturday Night Against
Salisbury “Y”

Manager Carson, of the basketball team,
has announced a tentative basketball schedule
that consists of 15 games, seven of which
are to be played at Davidson and the remain-
ing eight with schools off the hill.
played away from Davidson will be reached
with two trips, the team being away from
Davidson seven days the first trip and four
days the second, during which time they will
with South Carolina
with Tar

Games

meet cight teams, five

schools and the remaining three
Heel teams.

The first game of the season is to be played
Saturday night at Salis-
bury "Y". The next game-does not follow
unail January 11th, which is the first college
team the Wildcats meet. This game is with
Duke, and is to be played at Davidson. . Fol-

Davidson against

and Guilford on the home ground, the games

“When the Phi Beta Kappa fraternity was | ing hair and taking the lining from pockets | to be played January 13th and 16th ,respec-

founded in 1776 by a group of Sophomores
at William and Mary College, they made no
measuring rod of scholarship. I have a
hunch that those Sophomores were fair rep-
resentatives of the ‘flaming youth of their
day,’ and that they chose their rather high-
flown Greck motto with a boldness not unlike
that resorted to by modern-day youth,” Dr.
Robertson averred. ‘There was certainly no
(Continued on page 8)

Students Make Response
to Banner Elk Campaign

Returns From Dornier? Canvass
Are Very Satisfactory

According to a statement made from the
office of the local “Y”, the recent mission
campaign for funds to aid in work’ at Ban-
ner Elk, N. C., has greatly exceeded expec-
tations. The “Y” cabinet had set. as its goal
$1,000 to be used in the behalf of the moun-
tain boys of that section of North Carolina
and also in the mountain districts of sur-
rounding states. It is said that the returns
from the canvassing were very satisfactory
and that the Davidson boys made a quick
response to this call for funds.

The report is as yet incomplete, but it is
thought by officials that when all pledge
cards are collected and a count is made, the
amount will go somewhat over $1,000.

It is the intention of the “Y” to send a
check for $500 to the Plumtree School for
Boys before Christmas. It is in this way
that the “Y” wishes to make a Christmas
present of $50 to each of ten boys in order
that they may go to school.

The work of this campaign was done by a
committee composed of three men from
each class and one man from each fraternity
house. This committee selected as many
other men as they wished to help them in the
work and last week they canvassed the entire
school for funds.

Every student was given an opportunity
to give something by immediate donation or
by pledging some amount that may be paid
off from time to time, it not being necessary
to pay it all until next March.

It will be remembered that the cabinet of
the Y. M..C. A. decided after a thorough
investigation of the project at Banner Elk
that the proceeds from the mission campaign
this year should go for that work. It is the
plan of the cabinet that the:money shall be

(Continued on page 5)

and the most obstreperous stomach,

Col. Missing Link entertained with a brief
stein on the advantages and disadvant-
ages of love, using in support of his argu-
ments may absorbing-and enlightening illus-
trations that were local interest. The
remainder of the group rendered some songs
and dialogue, and were finally so mixed up
that, were it not for the timely designation

of

of the peanut race, a physician would have.

had to be called to straighten out the con-
fusion. ‘

The peanut race served as a climax to the
program, and the troupe left with faces filled
with foreboding, for what was to happen
that night was nobody's business.

tively.

Iixams furnish the second break of the
season, The first game after the holidays is
the one with Wofford at Davidson, The last
home game to be played is with Lenoir-
Rhyne, on February 7th, Following the last
home game the team leaves on their first trip
which lasts seven days. This is rapidly fol-
lowed with the shorter trip, which ends with
the last game of the season, ‘with Duke, in
Durham, N. C.

More games are pending, but the tentative |

schedule as it now stands is as follows:
December 17th—Sulisbury “Y”, Davidson.
January 11th—Duke
(Continued on page

5)

Glee Club Completes
Successful Road Trip

Junior Speaking to
Feature Dramatics

The outstanding phase of the Junior pro-
gram next spring will be the dramatic pre-
sentation given by members of the class on
the second ‘night of the three-day program.
Bob Covington, chairman of the Dramatic
Committee, states. that plans for the night
are well under way, and that final arrange-
ments will soon be completed.

The committee has decided tentatively on
a threefold problem, calling for selections
by the Glee Club, a presentation by the Red
and Black Masquers, and the presentation of
a one-act play or comedy skit by members
of the Junior class only which is to be writ-
ten by some member of the class of ’29.

A rather unique plan has been decided upon
by the dramatic committee for the selection
of the play to be presented. A ten-dollar
prize is to be awarded the member of the
class whose work is chosen by a set of
judges appointed by the committee. Mem-
bers of the committee felt that the offering
of this prize would stimulate keen competi-
tion among those interested and bring out
much previously unknown talent. The prize
is being given by the finance committee of
the class.

The rules for the contest as drawn up by
the committee are: .(1) The production

(Continued on page 5)

Last Thursday the Davidson Glee Club
left on a three-day trip to as many different
cities to give concerts, the first concert being
given in Winston-Salem, at Salem College
for Women. Following the program at
Salem, the Glee Club went to Greensboro
and presented a program at Greensboro Col-
lege for Women. Saturday night the club
came back to Salisbury and gave a concert at
Catawba College; after this program the
members returned to the campus to spend
Sunday, before leaving Monday morning for
Durham to enter the State Glee Club con-

test.

According to comments from the press of
the state the Glee Club was warmly received
at the three cities where it preserited pro-
grams, and was welcomed by large audi-
ences. One man following the concert at
Catawba, is reported to have stated that he
had heard the Glee Club for over six years,
and that they were better then than at any
concert he had heard before.

The club was transported ‘in two large
busses, the’ full club of 41 members being
taken on the trip, and in two of the cities
were taken care of in private homes during
their stay in the city. John Foster, president
of the club, stated that although the did not
expect the orgafization to make any money
on the trip, he at least expected to break
even.

The program presented by the Davidson

. (Continued on page 5)

+."

University, Davidson. | pe
,ent outlook the building should be under con-

Choose Teams for

Chambers Fund is
Nearly Completed

Ten thousand more dollars New
Chambers will be under way to completion.
It is necessary to raise three hundred thou-
sand dollars before further work on the
building can be started, and the administra-
tion has on hand pledges for two hundred and
ninety thousand dollars. The lacking ten
thousand dollars must be supplied by the
first of January or ten thousand will be lost
to the cause, for one subscription for ten

and

lation that the necessary fund would be
raised by the first of the year.
from Dr. W. J. Martin ‘says that the
ed ten thousand will be raised by Christmas,
if not before, or he will be very disappointed.

The architect, Mr. H. C. Hibbs, of Nash-
ville, Tenn., well known as a designer of
college buildings, having drawn the plans
for Vanderbilt, Peabody, and Southwestern,
has the final drafts for the Chamn-
hers almost to submit. Contractors’
bids will soon be called, and 60 days should |
see material on the ground if not actual ex-

The plan is to first com-

need-

rest of

ready

cavation started.

plete the north wing of Chambers, and then}
will house the,

complete the center, which
“auditorium, [tis estimated that four hin-=
dred thousand dollars will be to
) finish and equip the New Chambers building

necessary

‘entire.

With only ten thousand more dollars to
raise, and that in sight, it ‘appears that the
long-dreamed-for New Chambers will soon
This building will greatly al-

he a reality.

. ee | . 1
|leviate the present crowded condition and in-

adequate facilities under which the colleg ge is
running. The
j vide new science rooms and laboratories,
other class rooms and offices and the much-
|needed auditorium, According to the pres-

i struction not later than March, if not be-
| fore, and will in all probability be available
for use by the opening of the next school
session. The completion of New Chambers
lis and has been a sore need at Davidson, and
ithe encouraging prospects for its taking form
will be hailed alike by students and faculty.

Dr. Nisbet Urges
Higher Ideals for
College Students

“Let us lift up our eyes unto the high
places where we may behold God and the

get out of the low grovelling level of the
/average man,” exhorted Dr. C. R. Nisbet,
pastor of the Caldwell Memorial Church of
Charlotte. The speaker went on to show
how the “high places” of Sinai, Golgotha,
Hermon, and Olivet, furnished the setting
for events fundamental to the building of
Christian character.

“T will lift up mine eyes unto the hills
whence cometh my help,” a part of the first
verse of the 121st Psalm, served as the cen-
tral theme of the address. This was written
by the Psalmist in commemoration of the

(Continued on page 8)

GLEE CLUB SECOND

In the first Intercollegiate Glee
Club contest conducted, Monday night,|
December 12th, by the North Caro-
lina Association of Glee Clubs, Duke

University won, defeating Davidson

by six-tenths of a point. Guilford
and State Colleges were the other en-
trants to the contest, which was held
in Durham, at the Duke auditorium.

thousand dollars was pledged with the stipu- |

A statement ;

|
new construction Will pro-

Lother worth-while things of life, and thus’

Forensic Council and Faculty Committee

’28 Debating Season

Ten Men Win Places on Five Teams
SEVEN JUNIORS PLACE

Powell and Dillard on Southern
Team—W. K. Pritchett and
Grady on Northern

Monday afternoon the Forensic Council
and the Faculty Committee on Debates, in a
joint meeting, selected five teams from the
squad of 15 men which had been chosen on
! the previous Monday. The schedule as pub-
, lished December Ist has been altered some-
what in regar dto dates.
| The Southern team is to consist of Henry
Tyree Dillard, with W. B.
as alternate. This team will de-
the University of Florida, | at
Fla. March 13th. From
to Sewanee, Tenn., where
they meet the University the South, on
March 15th. [Emory University, at Atlanta,
on Mareh 16th, will be their last engagement.

The team chosen to make the Northern
trip consists of W. K. Pritchett and Robert
C. Grady, F. DeWolfe Miller acting as al-
| ternate. The first engagement this team has
is with Hampden-Sidney College, at Hamp-
Va., on March 13th. George
Washington University, at Washington, D.
Cy Marci: 4th, the next on their
schedule. They will meet the University of
Pittsburgh, at Pittsburgh, on March 15th.

Three schools will delegate men to David-

T. Powell and A.
McGuire
with
Gainesville,

hate
on
they

there 20

ot

| den-Sidney,

on is

son to meet teams on the home ground, The
University of Florida will mect Bob Kell
and L. K. Pritchett, with E. Riggs McCon-

nell as alternate-on March 8th,
A team composed of Frank Hall and C.
R. Pritchett, with Reid Graham as alternate,
(Continued on page 8)

Nineteen Football Men
Obtain Varsity Letters

Lafferty and Nunan ain Awarded Cross-
Country Monograms

After a rather inauspicious season on the
gridiron, the Athletic Council met recently,
awarding letters to those men who have
played in the required number of games.
| Winners of the varsity “D"” numbered 19
in the aggregate.

A comparatively new custom has been
adopted in awarding the letter to some of
the men not actually played in
‘enough games to win the letter. But inas-
much as the coaches judge that these men
have shown as admirable-spirit on the field
as those who have won the letters, they are
awarded the varsity monogram after three
years of service on the field and punctuality
,in their work.

There were 15 men who participated in
enough games to win the letter; there were
three service letters, and a letter given to
the manager.

A significant feature of the awarding of
the letters is the fact that there were only
four men in the backfield that played the
required time, these being Captain Grey,
Harrison, Nisbet, and Wilson. The’ first
i three named are Seniors, and as they go
tare goes a fast trio of backfield men.

; Winners of the varsity letter in football
were: Captain W. R. Grey, Jr., and Riggs
McConnell, of Davidson; W. O. Nisbet, F.
'S. Wearn, and R. E. Wilson, of Charlotte;
H. M. Arrowood, Shelby, N. C.; H. L.
Laws, Columbus, Miss:; J. W. Melton and
T. E. McGeachy, of Decatur, Ga.; Nat Hunt,
Lexington, N. C.; E. R. McConnell, Cor-
nelius, N. C.; W. L. McColgan, Norton,
Va.; A. W. Baker, Stony Point, N. C.; D.

who have

Grey, Hendersonville, N. C.; P. R. Maulden,
_ (Continved on page Ss)

R. McEachern, Wilmington, N. C.; J. - We
