[He

VAVIDSONiaw, “MAY 5, (9Z7' °°"

Best Drilled Squad and Platoon Picked |

From a School Unit in Competitive Drill

Public Initiation of New
Reporters Held Monday

Nineteen Neophytes Hold Beauty
Contest During Game

“B” company’s second platoon has covered
itself with honor this year by winning both
the Squad Competition and the Platoon Drill.
Lieutenant Mitchell and his men put cut some
very creditable drills. Gilmour, the corporal
of the second squad, and his squad displayed
an almost perfect performance.

The Competitive Drill is run off in this
manner: for the squad competition, the best
squad in each platoon, then in each company,
is picked by the officers’ of that company.
These squads then represent their companies
in the semi-finals, which are judged by four
army officers, Captain Weems, Captain
Dougherty, Captain Elkins, and Lieutenant
Beckett. The major and adjutant of the
battalion also serve as judges. The Second
Squad of the First Plattoon of Company
“A.” with Corporal Boyd commanding; the

The public initiation of the new mem- |
bers of the Reporters’ Club was held on |
j last Monday afternoon in connection
| with the Davidson-V. P. I. baseball game.
The ceremonies uncovered a wealth of
beauty and attractive feminity surprising

ina group of ordinarily masculine young
men, so much so that the May King him- |
self is said to have seriously taken un- |
der consideration the suggestion that he |
choose a queen from them.

The field was a large one, including |
Second Squad of the Second Platoon of “B"| representatives of such institutions as |
Company, with Corporal Gilmour command-| Vassar, Bryn Mawr, Wellesley, and

ing; the Second Squad of the Third Platoon | Queens, and the enormous crowd gather- |
ery tte i : - ‘ ‘ ‘
of “C” Company, with Corporal Maddox} ed for the occasion was held in suspense

commanding, and the First Squad of the} for sometime during the deliberations of |
First Platoon of “D” Company, with Cor-| the judges, but the choice when finally
poral Regen commanding, were selected as | arrived at was unanimous in favor of
the semi-finalists. The second squad of the} Miss Angelina Clementina Pectorina, or

and the joy-friend...
Prince Albert

third platoon of “C” Company, with Corporal
Maddox commanding, and the second squad |
of the second platoon of “B” Company, with |
Corporal Gilmour commanding, were picked
for the finals. In the competition between
these two, “B’’ Company’s squad won.

In the platoon competition the best platoon
of each company was picked by the officers
The First
Platoon of “A” Company, with Liteutenant
Webb commanding; the Second Platoon of
“B” Company, with Lieutenant Mitchell
commanding ; the First Platoon of “C” Com-
pany, with Lieutenant Frierson commanding,
arid the Second Platoon of “D” Company,
with Lieutenant King commanding, were
chosen for the semi-finals. In the finals,
Lieutenant Mitchell’s Second Platoon of “B”’
Company won out. The prize for winning
the platoon drill will be this year, as last, a
cup. This cup is to be on the same order as
those given the captains of each company,
only a bit smaller. Corporal Gilmour will
be given a gold medal and each member of
his squad will be given a gold bar.

of their respective companies.

The announcement of the best company for
the year has not yet been made, nor have
next year’s officers been commissioned,
though both are expected to be made public
very shortly.

It may be remembered by some that the
Squad Drill was won by the fourth squad of
third platoon of Company “D”, with Cor-
poral McCrary commanding. Lieutenant
Houston, commanding the first platoon of
Company “A,” won the Platoon Competitive
Drill last year and “C’’ Company for the sec-
ond year won the title of the best company of
the Battallion.

Queens College is
Host to Debaters

Next Tuesday night, May 10, Davidson
will meet Sewanee in one of the most impor-
tant forensic contests of the year. "The de-
bate will be held in Charlotte, at the chapel
of Queens College, and the time has been set
at 8:00 o’clock. The debate was to take place
‘on May 2, but as the college was unable to
get the chapel. on that night the date was
postponed.

The query for discussion is: Resolved,
That the Volstead Act should be repealed.
Davidson will debate the negative and is to
be’ represented by W. A. Christian, of Mo-
bile, Ala., and Tyree Dillard, of Greensboro.

Christian was president of the Eumenean
Literary Society and is prominent in forensic
activities. He is a member of Alpha Phi
Epsilon, national honorary forensic fratern-
ity. As president of the Y. M..C. A. he has
been very close.to the’life on the campus, and
is best known by his connection with this
work. While this is his first time to debate
on the varsity team, his ability as a speaker
is well recognized. Christian is a member
of the Gamma Delta Fraternity.

Dillard represented Davidson on the Fresh-
man team against Wake Forest year before
last and won a unanimous decision. He, also,
is a member of Alpha Phi Epsilon and is
recognized as one of the college’s outstanding
debaters. His previous experience has given
him a wide reputation and well prepared him
for a place on the varsity team. He is also
a member of the Phi Gamma Delta Social
Fraternity.

Judges for the debate have not as yet heen

appointed, but will be announced in the next

by her official name, “Miss Mitchell.”

Miss long °
since Queen of Love and Beauty at Mit- |
chell College, and was entered at once |
when of this
She was in a sense a “dark

Pectorina was elected not

was made f conversation.

announcement
contest.
horse,” being from a comparatively small
institution, but her face and figure swept
all before them, so that her selection was
greeted with storms of applause when
announced, :

Seniors Selected :
as Class Orators

Albert.
like in a pipe. |

All wise-craci..

Final preparations are now being made for
the Senior Class Day which will be held May
30, the day before the concluding exercises
in the church. To this end the class of '27
s¢lected last Tuesday morning as their class
day orator, Harllee Branch, Jr.; class day
valedictorian, L. D. Wharton, Jr., and class
day salutatorian, W. T. Covington.

In the class meeting held Tuesday morning
in Shearer Hall, the names of the following
men were submitted by the nominating com-
mittee: Clanton Williams, Don Wharton,
Greer Davis, W. T. Covington, Gordon Mc-
Cutcheon, and Harllee Branch. Those select-
ed will take part in the regular class day ex-
ercises which will be modelled after the
commencement exercises of the following
day. At this time the principal addresses ‘will
be made by the above mentioned students
and will be one of the main features of the Ag
commencement week program.

you a [oad.

+ Reynolds Tobacco
inston-Salem, N. C.

WHEN my father was in college, *‘Put that in
your pipe and smoke it!” was considered snappy
I’m ready to take this old line
literally when the talk centers around Prince
Becaus~ ™

when it comes to deep-down satisfaction in a
smoke. It’s got everything!
of the ice-man across the kitchen.
vacation. Fragrant as 1 pine forest.

Think up your own similes. You'll write them
all in the column headed ‘Superlative Degree”
when you learn the joys of a jimmy-pipe and
Prince Albert. If you don’t know this «rand old
smoke, come around to my room and I'll give

PRINGE ALBERT

—no other tobacco is like it!

uma)

=~, *»

Me

\

A. makes two of what I
wide, P. A. is the money

P. A. is sold everywhere in
tidy red Aes) Proud dnd half-
pound tin humidors, and

Cool as the trail
Sweet as

pound crystal-glass humidors
with sponge-moistener top.
And always with every bit
VI bite and parch removed by
the Prince Albert process.

In the regular commencement exercises
several noted speakers have been procured

by Pesident Wm. J.”Martin, among them are
Judge W. P. Stacy, of Raleigh, and Rev.
J. L. McMillan, of Norfolk, Va. Judge
Stacy, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court
of North Carolina, will deliver the literary
address to the graduates, the undergraduates
and their friends on the night of May 31.
Rev. J. L. McMillan, D.D., pastor of the
First Presbyterian Church in Norfolk, Va.,
will preach the Baccalaureate Sermon, Sun-
day morning, May 29th. The “Y” officers
have not yet secured a’speaker to preach the
annual sermon, but when he has been selected
the roster of the speakers will be complete.

“Miss Mitchell” wore an entrancingly
close-fitting bathing suit (courtesy M. H.
Goodrum & Co.), with shoes and cap to
match, and the rather unusual addition
of a three days growth of beard instead
of rouge and lip-stick. :

An unfortunaté incident of the after-
noon was the appearance on the scene of
an importunate tailer of Jewish pro-
clivities. Singling out from among the
by-standers one of his customers who
had apparently been overlong in paying
his bills he demanded cither payment of
the bill in question or the return of cer-
tain articles of wearing apparel on the
spot. The customer, ‘being entirely in-
solvent, was forced to separate himself
from the garments in the presence of a
“cloud of witnesses” and to retire from

few days. So far this year Davidson has a
successful record, having won five out of
eight debates. There remain only two more
to be held this year—the Sewanee debate and
the Freshman debate with Carolina. It is
hoped that both of these will be added as vic-
tories to our achievements this year in foren-
sic activities,

the scene in disgrace.
This public initiation of the Reporters’

(Continued on page 6)

The Commercial National Bank

Charlotte, N. C. Founded 1847

Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your
banking needs.

4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit.

_Trust Department under supervision of United States
Government. Make us your Executor.

Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300, 000.00.
OFFICERS

R. A. DUNN, President I. W. STEWART. Cashier and True! Offcer
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President J. B. DOAR, Asst. Cashier
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President M. T. WILLIAMS, Acoietant Cashier

FULLER HENDRIX, Acsistant Cashier
| i ty

WHOLESALE

When You Need Candy
See Us

26 28 S. Cellege St.
CHARLOTTE, N.C. ;

HOW LONG HAS IT BEEN SINCE YOU
CHECKED UP ON YOU . INSURANCE?

H Are you absolutely sure you are protected—that your policies cover the

H present value of your property? How about your home, your personal belong-
ings, your place of business, your stock of merchandise, your automobile,
your garage?

Let this agency help you determine your insurance values.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY

INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

McALISTER CARSON ('13) Mgr. M. B. SPEIR, JR. ('26)

SS

Ta. 24 TTI

Eance Quality Products

Delivered same day made. All dealers

LANCE PACKING COMPANY

CHARLOTTE, N. C.
