DAMS ta
4

=a." 2

AEN Boe Tr

HE DAVIDSONTAR, “MAY 42027...

AOSgta

1 ie ORE

BAL Woes wos res Vue

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press

Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill” —

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at at “the. ‘Post. Office ‘of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

~~ SUBSCRIPTION “RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

be in the hands of the
Monday. Articles re-
will not be pa eee:

All Articles for Publication must
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m.
ceived from an unknown source

BOYCE

MARTIN Editor- in-Chief
VERNON Ss. BROYL ES, SR. ---Business Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
A: Ni “BROWN: &ce2ctecct UgetebuseacssalLanaging Editor
W. K. PRITCHETT - __.-Managing Editor
J. B. MORIARITY ------ ----Managing Editor
GiURSGAKBeiwrues ...-Athletic Editor
W. L. LINGLE a Associate Editor
F. C. WITHERS .-Associate Editor
T. T. JONES Pee Associate Editor
Li: C8 WADSWORDH G6 cicecs cee Alumni Editor
R. C. GR ADY Reokocus not--.--.------Exchange Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
E. L. DOUGLASS.-.-_----.----Assistant Business Manager
MiP: C pee Assistant Business Manager
JULIAN LAKE “Assistant Business Manager
{i A. McAL PINE... -Subscription Manager
Vv. L. ALBRIGHT. _-Circulation Manager
R. S. ABERNETHY Service Manager
Reporters’ Club
Ti ON NS reise es a aes President
A, N. BROWN. ; ..---.-Vice-President
C.R. L a _-Secretary-Treasurer

W. H. BAILE McBRYDE
TYREE DILLARD B. McQUEEN

J. L. ELY W. K. PRITCHETT
J. R. GRAHAM B. WILSON

JOHN GWIN Wa ae WEAVER

R. C. GRADY . WADSWORTH
R. H. KANE you MORIARTY
Joukt McKNIGHT

Again the unrelenting Hand, in directing
the divine course of events, has seen fit to
withdraw from this little community one of
its beloved members. In the loss of Mrs.
C. K. Brown, Davidson College as well as
the inhabitants of the town, has suffered a
distinct shock. The Davidsonian and its en-
tire staff of workers wishes to extend to
Professor Brown and to the bereaved family.
its heartfelt expression of sympathy.

eS
MOTHER’S DAY

The second Sunday in May rolls around to
remind us to remember and pay special
tribute to one who should be paid special
tribute every day. The dedication of a day
throughout the world to the one who means
most to us in an everlasting monument to
one who has loved us more dearly than any-
one else all the years of our life. Whether
living or dead, the memory of mother is the
sweetest of all thoughts to nian. The purest
love in all the world is devoted to the one to
whom all homage should be paid.

Fach man owes an enormous debt to his
mother which can never be paid. One day a
year seems entirely too small to squeeze in
all the tribute which should be paid to the
dearest person in the world, but it should be
remembered that every day should be moth-
er’s day, in some small way. The one who
thas devoted so many days to us is remem-
bered every day of the year but the second
Sunday in May is a public demonstration of
the love we have for the one waiting at home
for us.

Many and many a tale has been told of
the inspiration of mother love, yet all fall
short of expressing all that should be said.
Lincoln said that all that he was or ever
hoped to be was due to his dear mother.
Everyone feels this in some way yet we fail
to express it enough. The simplicity, the
earnestness, and the depth of feeling ex-
pressed on ‘this one day of the year is not
enough appreciation. We remember the
ones at home .every day but there is not
enough outward expression of our feelings.
As this day comes each year we resolve to
act properly in this manner and as the
months pass on we are apt to forget.

A small way of expressing our love this
year will be to attend the “Y” services on
Sunday afternoon. A special Mother’s Day
program will be given and a‘large number of
students should be present. There will be
either a red rose or a white one on the lapel
of every man on Sunday morning. Every
man who thinks enough of his mother to

wear this little token of his love for -her

should also sacrifice a little of his time and
express his love a little more by attending
these services.

_The great majority of men feel awkward
and embarrassed when attempting to ex-

ess their emotions and feelings, but on
Mother’ ’s Day an excellent opportunity will
be given to show our love first by wearing

EDITORIAL |

the flower and then attending the services in
the afternoon.

THE CALL TO BLUE RIDGE

With the coming of spring, flowers, the
turning of a-young man’s fancy and all that
sort of thing, comes the annual call for stu-
dents to spend ten days in the “Land of the
Sky” at Blue Ridge. Every man at David-
son has probably heard off the Blue Ridge
conferences and each man knows their true
worth and the benefits which fan be derived
from attending such inspirational meetings.
There is no need to arouse the usual bally-
hoo about the beauties of nature, but each
man here should seriously think of attending
the conference this year unless he has other
plans for the summer which cannot be
changed.

For the past fifteen years students from
all over the south have gone to Blue Ridge
to discuss various problems and to gain new
vigor and new ideas for the next year’s work
at their various institutions. There is not
only the privilege of fellowship with the rep-
resentative students from all over the south
but there is also the inspiration of the va-
rious national leaders and teachers who will
give talks to the conference at various
times. There is no doubt but that every
student today has various problems perplex-
ing him with which he has never been both
bothered before. There are trials which
every man must undergo and temptations
which he must meet. It is only through
sane and thorough discussions of these prob-
lems that a man will ever be able to combat
them successfully. This is one of the main
features of the Blue Ridge Conference and
no matter what a man’s life work may be he
is certain to obtain some worth while in-
formation concerning it at these meetings.

At present there are only four or five
Davidson students who have signified their
intention of attending this conference. It
is deplorable that at a denominational school
such as Davidson the students should fail to
appreciate the worth of these meetings. It
is said that the only sure way to get a man
to do a thing’is to tell him not to do it. If
that is correct this article has been written
in vain, but still each man here should think
of attending this conference, weigh its ad-
vantages and carefully consider the pos-
sibilities of his attending it.

For the last few years Davidson has been
well represented and there are several boys
in school now who have attended these con-
ferences, who are extremely interested that
Davidson has a large delegation this sum-
mer. It is difficult for those who have
never been to Blue Ridge to attempt to ap-
preciate all of its values but the only real
proof for them is to go to Blue Ridge and
convince themselves.

FRESHMAN WEEK

Next year there will be an innovation in
the registering of the new men when Fresh-
man Week is inaugurated. At this time, if
present plans are carried through, the
Freshmen will be sequired to be at school
two or three days before the upperclassmen
arrive in order that they may be thoroughly
orientated on the campus by the time all of
the sagacious ones announce their presence
on the campus.

Prior to this year, the freshmen have been
given lectures and talks by a number of
students on the campus in an attempt to in-
culcate the real Davidson spirit in them.
The new system will only be a more ad-
vanced method of this system. While the
freshmen are here alone they will be shown
all of the buildings on the campus in order
that they might know where their classes
will be held, where they will room, etc. Dur-
ing this time also, various lectures will be
Piven to them. Some on the honor system,
the method of student government, how to
study at college and various other questions
which are of vital interest to men who are
entering college for the first time.

It is highly important that every upper-
classman who knows of a freshmen expect-
ing to attend Davidson next year to impress
on him the fact that he must be here in time
for the orientation week. If only half of
the class arrive or if they co-operate only
half-heartedly, the week will be a failure
and it will be impossible to instill all of the
principles and traditions of Davidson into
the men at the time when they need it most.

Fresh Weeks or Orientation Week are in
vogue at various institutions now. Auburn
has adopted this plan and it-has been highly
successful in the two years it has been used.
Georgia Tech plans to adopt it-next: year for
the same reasons that Davidson has adopted
this plan and it has been highly successful in
the two years it has been used. Georgia
Tech plans to adopt it next year for the same
reasons that Davidson has adopted it.
it remains up to the freshmen themselves

“But

and to the upperclassmen of next year, for |

all to work together, in order that the men

ee eee

Ollapodrida

Are student minds uniform? (That is a question
which is often answered in the affirmative by comic
cartoonists. The student usually denies it emphatically.
However, the recent questionnaire sent out by the
Fact Finding Committee caused some Davidson stu-
dents to accept the statement. Two students filled out
the blanks separately and upon comparison found that
they differed in only one respect. Comparisons with
their closest neighbors never showed a difference of
more than one item, while still further comparison
with ten students in other dormitories found the largest
divergence to be four times, and that in only one case.

One Singapore Herring, of Chicago, walked near
the lake in search of cooling breezes, came near a fish
cannery. A ten-pound can of his namesake fell. from
the third-story window, stroked Mr. Herring, flattened
him.

Investigation of the annals of Davidson dicloses that
there were rulings among organizations prohibiting
combines for electing favorites to literary society
office. Annual dues were usually twenty- five cents;
initiation fees, one dollar.

The Prince of Wales leads the world in dress, but
President Coolidge runs a close second. His suits
formerly of the mediocre $65 type have leaped to $125
and $140. He is known as the best dressed man in
Washington. His foot is a perfect eight and a half.
He prefers a double-breasted coat, blue or gray.

A present Davidson student was one of the first four
upon whom experiments were made at John-Hopkins
University with insulim, remarkable cure for diabetes.
The injections caused temporary insanity. He is com-
pletely cured now. The drug often has’ this effect.

During the past two weeks two similar concoctions
have been discovered for the cure of the disease.
Their effect is mild, stimulating.

Victor Hugo was perhaps the most versatile of all
great world writers. He excelled in novels, plays and
lyric poems. Several volumes of the latter have been
published. As a novelist he wrote Les Miserables,
one of the greatest of all times. He also wrote Ruy
Blas, agreat play. :

In 1917 the United States entered the World War,
seeking democracy, freedom, no pecuniary gain. Upon
signing of the armistice, others wrangled, sought new

possessions, obtained them. The United States held
aloof, comparatively.

Now ten years later, she finds herself in possession
of the greatest of all prizes, International prosperity.
Every great nation of the world is debtor to her, de-
pendent upon her resources. Her national wealth is
many times that of any other nation as a direct result
of the war. Perhaps one might say the just receive
their deserts.

In the Mississippi River floods at Greenville only
one house has completely survived, that of a Davidson
student. The water rose to the front door step, is
there now, will be for a week or more.

Near the same town, Big Bill Thompson, Mayor of
Chicago, on a triumphal voyage to New Orleans, at-
tempted to land, was threatened by rifles. The wash
of the boats endangered the levees.

Apply this quotation to the next freshman you see:
“The emptiness of ages in his face,
And on his back the burden of the world.”
—The Man With the Hoe. ’

One of the most promising poets of America today
is only thrteen years old. By name she is Nathalia
Crane. When eight years old she wrote her first verse,
contributed it to the New York Sun, had it accepted.
Incongnito she wrote still more poems for the paper,
until the editors sent for her, were amazed by her
ability. Her first volume, The Janitor’s Boy, appeared
when the author was ten years old.

In the recent awarding of the Pulitzer prizes, the
Canton (Ohio) Daily News was awarded the medal
for “the most distinguished and meritorious service
rendered by: dny American newspaper during the year.
Don R. Mellet, the former editor, was assassinated a
few months ago and the fight which his paper made to
arrest the slayer was one of the main reasons it was
awarded the prize. In the other prize in the journal-
istic department, the Boston (Mass.) Herald was ad-
judged to have had the best editorial for the year.
This was “We Submit,” written by Lauriston Bullard.

If all the reporters covering the Snyder trial were

sent to the flooded area in the Mississippi to send back

reports about the conditions there, possibly more people
would be giving to the relief than have been doing so.

Collegiate

Comment

The University of Deleware is again sponsor-
ing a Foreign Study Group for the fifth year.
Students will go to France for a year to study in
various universities there under the special tutor-
ship of assigned professors. Courses will be given
at the University of Paris, Nancy, Sorbonne and
various other institutions.

At Lafayette College numerous students apply
for membership for a special class in Creative
Writing. The professor takes the applications and
chooses the students which he would like to have
in his class for the next year.

A circle of Omicron Delta Kappa will be in-
stalled soon at the University ef South: Carolina.
As soppy as the trustees ratify the action of the
legislature in regard to social fraternities chap-
ters of various national organizations will be
placed there,

>

A new engineering building is being planned at
Clemson College to replace the one destroyed by
fire last spring.

6

The 112th anniversary of the founding of Al-
leghany College, Meadville, Pa., was celebrated
last week with appropriate exercises.

In an international essay contest recently spon-
sored by the Saddle Sirloin Club of Chicago the
University of California placed five men among
the leading twenty with seventeen states and one
Canadian province taking part.

During the midsemester at the University of
Chattanooga the honor system was introduced
for the first time.

The Georgia Tech chapter of Pi Delta Epsilon,
honorary journalistic fraternity, is sponsoring a
‘state wide journalistic contest among the high
schools of Georgia to determine the best student
paper.

The landscape gardening class at Union Uni-
versity, Jackson, Tenn., makes annual trips to the

of 1931 may be men of Davidson calibre
from the start. Unless these co-operate the
entire week will be a failure and we will

-have a class which will know very little of

the most important things at Davidson.

various nurseries in that part of the, country tak-
ing both the eds and the co-eds.

From the amount of publicity and gentle laugh-
ing that has greeted the announcement of the
Colorado College survey that a kiss shortens a
person’s life it would seem that there are num-
bers of students still planning to commit suicide.
Is this the idea of the “Suicide Club” which has
been recently organized here?

The Gamecock, University of South Carolina
paper, was first published in 1908, one of the
south’s first collegiate newspapers.

A girl’s college in Germany has discontinued the
study of biology as incompatible with maidenly
modesty.—New Student.

At the University of California the co-eds have
adopted the’ ankle length dresses again. Possibly
they wish to be different from Hollywood or may-
be they are bow-legged.

The new Andrew B. Murray Barracks were
opened at the Citadel last week.

At Elon College an annual debate is held be-
tween the freshmen and the sophomores.
year’s contest the sophomores emerged victorious.

The sophomores at the University of Richmond
recently celebrated their second birthday. A
large reception and musical progratMp was pre-
sented and the entire student body attended.

A University of North Caroliria alumnus and
professor of Philosophy, Paul Green, has been
awarded the Pulitzer prize for his play “In Abra-
ham’s Bosom.” This is the second time that a
University alumnus has been awarded this prize,
Hatcher Hughes, receiving it in 1924.

There are only thirteen seniors at King College,
Bristol, Tenn., in the graduating class this year.

The Y. M. C. A. at Hampden-Sidney College has
been supplanted by the Student’s Christian Asso-
ciation. The students making the change them-
selves after much deliberation believing that the
Y. M. C. A. was contrary to some of their reli-
gious beliefs in some parts of its organization.

In this «
