TieD AVA SONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XV.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 17, 1927

No. 10

State Beats Duke
to Cinch Coveted
Championship F lag

In winning the game with Duke University

last Friday by a score of 20-18, North Caro-
lina State completed a clear title to the foot-
ball championship of the state. State’s sen-
sational come-back after several years of
weak, football not only gained the state
championship for the team but places it third

in the list of Southern Conference teams and
gives it the right to dispute Georgia’s record [
and place on the list.

The clash with Duke was the center of at-

Wildcats Prove Threat But Bow Before
Stellar Aerial Offensive of Tar Heels

‘Tom and Min Accompany

Boys on Wildcat Special’

Pugcdies to Chavel Hill on Special |
* Enlivened by Various Amuse-
ments

No Davidson man’s career is complete |
Every year | prize

| without a trip on a “special.”
the fellows look forward with much antici- |

Pkives Figure in All of Carolina’s

Four Tallies
SCORE IS 27-0
Game Marks Goonies of New Kenan

Stadium With Seating Capacity
of 24.000

The opening of the new Kenan stadium,
football arena of this section, at the
| University of North Carolina, proved quite

traction in the state football circles this year, t pation to the running of this train, for it | a success from the Tar Heels’ point of view,
for two of the most prominent backs in the | signifies a good time for everybody. It also | as they christened it Saturday afternoon with

state met in opposition.
halfback for State, and “Jan”. Janoski, full-
back for Duke, played an intensely thrilling
game against each other, although McDowall
is believed to have established a record in|
the game that will take its place in the most |
prominent personal grid records in all South-
ern football history. ‘McDowall made a to- '
tal of 190 yards by running and 111 by for-
ward passes, not including his gains in scrim-
mage. Janoski piled up 95 yards in scrim-
mage, and Sam Buie gained 64 yards on
passes and 73 in scrimmage.

When Coach Gus Tebell summed up the
record of the Wolfpack at the end of the
brilliant game last Friday, he found that the |
only black mark against State for the entire

. season was made by Furman, and that the
Pack had triumphed over all the Conference
teams played this season, besides winning the
championship of the Big Five. Starting out
cautiously at the first of the season, State

_joy ride began.

jnew inhabitants of the Wildcat fair.

rapidly worked up in all respects, finally be-
coming invincible in the end. Coach Tebell
stated that all the games were played in al-
most a graduated order, coming to a high

(Continued on page 2) |

Potential Power of Man is Theme of
Doctor Vander Meulen’s Vesper Talk

Gaining -the attention of the audience by

remarking upon the tear drops caused by the
running of the thin paint with which some
zealous student, in the spirit of the last foot-
ball season, painted the words “State
Champs” on the curtain above the platform,
Dr. Vander Meulen, President of the Pres-
byterian Theological Seminary of Kentucky,
opened the fall evangelical services of the
Y. M. C. A. Sunday evening. Dr. Vander
Meulen, at the request of the pastor, had
preached to the students and congregation
earlier in the day, but the talk made in
Shearer was the first of the four-day series.
He took his text from the 26th chapter,
the 25th verse of Matthew: “And Judas who
betrayed Him, answered and said, ‘Is it I ?’”
The central theme in Dr. Vander Meulen’s
talk was the potential power that: each man
possesses, both as regards the possibility of
working good and of working evil. Any-
thing, such as war and politics, which af-
fords a radical change in either the vocation
or avocation of a man, has the ability to
bring out his potential power. The Civil
War made Grant, who had rated towards the
bottom of his class at West Point, the most
comprehensive of Northern generals and
later the President of the Union. The same
war developed Stonewall Jackson, in his boy-
hood a penniless orphan, into a firm and up-
right general, admired and feared by the
enemy. ;
But Dr. Vander Meulen states that al-|
though radical change in the intellectual side
of man may be brought about by a different
vocation or avocation, the change in the
moral make-up of man gives us far greatef
surprises. Conversion of the man to belief
in and service of his Master holds possibili-
ties of bringing about a dynamic change in
the character of the man. This statement
is supported by many concrete examples in

»

nual scrap -with~ Carolina. This year, so}
many men intended to bum over to the game |
that a little difficulty was experienced in ob- |
taining the required number to maké up the
train. However, when the time rolled around
enough men checked in to insure the “spe-
cial,” and everything was ready for the Wig
jaunt.

At seven-thirty Saturday morning, the old
Two very distinguished and
important beings accompanied the boys, these
being none other than Tom and Min, the
Their
brightly painted cagé was placed on the rear
platform of the train, and these actual em-
bodiments of the ’Cat spirit seemed very well
pleased indeed. It was a great piece of work
to take the wildcats to the game, and this
will be done whenever possible, for it adds
immeasurably to the spirit of the occasion.
Doctor Charlie was present with all the rab-
bit feet that Mecklenburg County could sup-
ply, and he’was confident that his “boys”
would tame the Tar Heels in a decisive man-
ner. That little bit of driftwood, “Fat”

(Continued on page 2)

the lives of such men as Billy Sunday and
Mel Trotter.

But there’ are many men and women on
earth going about as common people, who, if
the necessary circumstances occurred, would
become persons of profound influence. The
lack of stimulus is the cause of many men
not “coming out.”

The mother knows not what” her baby
might do in after life. It: might become a
great leader; it might become a traitor to its
country or to its faith. History is full of
mature men who have done things which
they never thought was in them. Mathew
Arnold is one example, Oliver Cromwell an-
other. Judas Iscariot thought that it was
impossible that he should be the one that
should betray his Master when he said, “Is
it I?”

At this point Dr. Vander Meulen gave his
theme its practical and personal application.
He says that no man knows the potential
power that he has—he has no idea of what
is in him. It is possible that he has the ca-
pacity for a great leader, or again a failing
that would make him a traitor to his trust,
despised by himself and by men. He should
put to himself the question, “Is it I?” Big-
ger men than he himself have gone down in
the clutches of sin. Sin has two accounts—
the evolutional and the Biblical. ae evolu-
tionist says that sin is the remnant of the
animal that is within us. The Biblical ac-
count says that sin is due to suggestion, a
mighty tool in the hands in the master of
deceivers—the devil. |

Some men are illusioned in thinking ‘that
they do not need the help of the Lord. They,
are badly in need of it: Other men who
have thought the same thing have been un-
conscious of their gradual slipping as they.
sink deeper into sin. God did not intend for

man to go unaided by His help.

’

Jack McDowall, | means a good football game, usually the an- a 27- () victory over the fighting Wildcats of

Davidson College.

Some say that the Wildcats were taken off
their feet by the spectacle of such magnifi-
cent surroundings, others opine that the spirit

at the University at this opening game as |°

evidenced by the student body gave new life
to the team, and they! ould not be beaten.

- But the ulitmate conclusion is that the Tar

Heels, scoffed by many supporters, drubbed
by many teams, and generally ground into the
dirt, pulled their greatest exhibition of foot-
ball during the present season to lick the
Presbyterian organization, and showed that
they still knew what a football was for as
they played a heads up game, taking advant-
age of all chances to score and many times
thrilled the 9,000 spectators as they made
sensational plays.

rand new field, which was so nice
d smooth before the game, was somewhat
uffled after the fracas, marking a more grim
struggle than the 27-0 score indicated. Upon
two occasions it looked as though their goal
line would be darkened by the shadow of the
Wildcat, but upon those same two occasions
the Carolina team held, taking possession of
the ball once only a brace of inches from the
final stripe. The team of the Tar Heels
forgot that they were heralded as the team
that could get within scoring distance of the
opponents and then fail on account of a de-
ficiency of the final punch, It was necessary
for them to expend all their energy to push
the ball across the line of the Wildcats, but
they gave that energy without a grudge.
After the Presbyterians had gotten off to a
bad start, they fought a great battle, only to
fall as they have fallen before, as a result of
a passing attack that took them off their feet.
And it was these passes that spelled defeat
for the Davidson team as they went through
the ‘line of the Carolina team for sizable
gains upon many occasions, only to lose what
advantage they had garnered in one power-

(Continued on page 8)

Medicine Stands as
Favorite Profession
With Davidsonians

By a review of the records in the office of
Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, Registrar of the col-
lege, interesting figures concerning the pro-
fessions chosen by the students are found.

It is seen that of the student body of over
600 members here at Davidson, the largest
number are to enter the medical practice as
a life work. One hundred and six have made
this their choice. Those choosing business
careers number 99. The ministry has a fol-
lowing of 81 of the jstudents, and law will
claim 51. Forty-five aspire to be teachers
and 25 are looking forward 'to engineering.
Of the remaining men nine are to be medical
missionaries; nine are to be chemists; eight,
accountants; seven, journalists; four, farm-
ers; three, architects; two will enter the
lumber business; and dentistry and the navy
will each take one.

One hundred and seventy-seven students
are yet undecided as to what their life work
will be,

DR. J. M. VANDER MEULEN

’ Fine Art of Sympathy Youth’s
Greatest Need, Says Dr.
Vander Meulen

During the week-day meetings of the
annual life service series sponsored by
the Y. M, C..A., Dr. Vander Meulen, pres-
ident of Louisville Theological Seminary,
gripped the entire student body with the
forcefulness of his messages. His words
have already shown an effect upon the
college, his straightforward statements
making a profound impression.

Monday morning, Dr. Vander Meulen
spoke to students on the subject of hypoc-
risy. He emphasized the fact that a
man must be strongly for Christ or
strongly against him; there is no middle

ground in the Bible. There are those
who name themselves Christians but
whose actions are not consistnet with

their professions.
slip,

These people begin to
and their moral fibres soften and
(Continued on page 8)

|

‘Hengeveld Coaches
Basketball Men in
Pre-Season Trials

—EE,

Varsity basketball practice, under the

| supervision of Dutch Hengeveld, began last
| Monday afternoon, with four letter men and

la large squad of aspirants.

The coaching

! will be in the hands of Dutch Hengeveld un-

| til after football season, when the squad will

to Coach Monk Younger.
McAulay

be turned over
Captain Ben Wilson, at center,

jand Harrison, forwards, are the letter men

from last year’s team. Andy Hewlett, a let-
ter man of 1925, will be back again this year.
Pritchett, Moore, Johnson, McGavock, Mill-
er, Mauzey, and Baker from last year's
Fresh team, are among those out for the
squad, Pat Crawford, Kugler, Ohseik and
Monroe, who were on the squad last year,
will be back.

Four letter’ men have been last by gradu-
ation. The loss of Captain Anderson, Simp-
son, Hudgins and Calhoun from the varsity
will leave a big gap to be filled by new ma-
terial. There will be a hard fight for the
coveted positions between those men called
out this year.

Those men now out will not necessarily
constitute the squad as many men, who are
now out for football, will go out when foot-
ball season closes and Coach Younger takes
charge.

In all probability, one cut will be
before Coach Monk takes over the reins.
The main purpose of this pre-season work
under the able leadership of Mr. Hengeveld,
is to get a line on the men, cut the number
to a smaller group and to prepare the varsity
men.

As has been the custom, the men selected
for tryouts, were picked from those doing
exceptional work in class basketball. This
year, class basketball was coached by mem-

(Continued on page 3)

made

Collegiate Press Association Formed
for Benefit of Student Publications

6G. C. W. GLEE CLUB TONIGHT

Greensboro College for Women will be
represented on the Davidson College campus
tonight by its Glee Club. The evening's en-
tertainment will begin at 7:30, in Shearer.
No definite program has been announced;
the past reputation of the G. C, W. Clee Club
is, however, sufficient to insure a very high-
ly enjoyable evening’s entertainment to all
those who attend. Two years ago this same
Glee Club came to Davidson sponsored by
the Junior class, the class of ’26. An especial
feature of the presentation given two years
ago was the singing of Mis Gwendalyn
Mitchell. Miss Mitchell will return with the
Glee Club to fill the present engagement, as
the assistant director of the club.

Davidson College is the first stop on an
extended tour of the South that the Glee Club
has planned for this fall. After the even-
ing’s entertainment at Davidson the Glee
Club intends to go straight South, filling on
the way several engagements in this state.

There are about 25 girls, extremely good
looking, that go to make up the Greensboro
College for Women’s Glee or Choral Club.
Gilman Alexander is the official director of
the club and Miss Gwendolyn Mitchell is his
assistant. As has been stated before, Miss
Mitchell has been a member of the club for
several years.

The Junior class is sponsoring the even-
ing’s entertainment and all thanks for se-
curing the engagement is due theni. Reno
the Magician, who so ably entertained a large
audience of students a few nights ago, was
also brought here under the sponsorship of
the class of ’29. Last year the Junior class
was able to secure several engagements with
several of the girls’ colleges in this state,
notably that of the Converse Glee Club,

(Continued on page 2)

At the chil peel ce convention of the
North Carolina Collegiate Press Association,
held at Raleigh, there was launched an or-
ganization which is to be called the Collegiate
Press. This will serve the
newspapers of the colleges in the same man-
ner as the Associated Press serves the large
newspapers of the country.

The present plan is to have one man on
the staff of each college newspaper serve as
correspondent for his paper. This corre-
spondent will accumulate all news of interest
and mail it to other correspondents of papers
to whom he thinks it would be of interest.
Because there is no standard date for publi-
cation of college newspapers of this state,
the correspondent will have a great deal of
work to do in order to mail the news out as
fast as it accumulates, otherwise it would
fast become useless, especially since one of
the college publications of this state is a tri-
weekly paper.

Differing fro mthe Associated Press, an
organization whch it is modelled after, the
Collegiate Press will have no mechanical
devices, such as cables, automatic telegraph
machines, and a cross-continental system of
wires. Mail service would be used’ entirely
to keep institutions in touch with each other,
and each paper will bear the expense of mail-
ing copy to other papers, receiving in re-
turn the same service from them.

The plan is looked upon with a favorable
comment from students, because it will fur-
nish news of schools in which they are in-
terested and possibly of students whom they
know and are interested in. It will likewise
serve to advertise the schools that send out
the news.

The new organization is sponsored by the
North Carolina Collegiate Press, Association,
with A. L. Aydieth, of State College, as its «
first president,: ahd. H. a Honets Ae: eg

(Continued on page 2).

—s—-—-

organization

