THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 3, 1927

-- Sport Talk -:-

News and Views of
Wildcat Events

By Raymond Lake

In the game with the V. M. I. Cadets
last Saturday, the Wildcats, although they
came out on the short end of the score,
fought much harder and showed much
better form than they did the week be-
fore against the Demon Deacons, As
we said last week, we can’t win all the
time, and it was certainly much better to
lose to the Cadets than to one of the |
teams in the state. We don’t mean to!
make excuses, but in our opinion, if the |
Wildcats had gotten the breaks the Ca-
dets got, we would have won the game. |

In the first quarter, the Wildcats were |
the superior team and it looked as if |
they would win without much trouble. |
The turning point of the game was the,
fumble Sf the punt in the second quar-
ter, After this break, the Wildcats seem-
ed not to be able to get together again,
while the Cadets kept getting more
breaks and continued to improve. Lady
Luck seemed to be with the Visitors, and
this, together with the fact that they had
a strong, heavy team, lost the game for
the Wildcats. Some say that the Cadets
simply had a Stronger team and were
due to win the game, but if the Wildcats
had not: had hard luck and had played
like they eveidently did against the ’Ga-
tors, our guess is that they would have
again been the victors.

The important game is the one this
week with the Wolfpack. This team has
defeated Carolina, Wake Forest, Florida,
and other strong teams and on the out-|
come of this encounter depend the}
Wildcats for the 19027 championship. The
defeat last week may do more good than
harm. If it puts enough fight and de-
termination into the team for them to de-
feat State College, we will have been
well paid for the humiliation of a de-
feat.

One thing which contributed to the de-
feat last Saturday was the lack of re-
Serve material on the part of the Wild-
cats and the abundant supply of it on the
part of the Cadets.

Even though it was’

Wolfpack and Wild

cats
to Play in Greensboro

To Meet Each Other For Nineteenth

Time

The Davidson-State game in Greens-
boro this Saturday will be the feature
encounter of the week so far as state
championship football for the 1927 sea-
son is concerned. When the two teams
run out on the field in the World War
Memorial Stadium in Greensboro, Satur-
day, they will be meeting for the nine-
teenth time in the histories of the two
institutions. If Davidson wins the stand-
ing of the Big Five will be a grand mix-
up. If State wins, the race will.be be-
tween the boys in Raleigh and the Duke
Blue Devils.

According to’ comparative scores,
State holds a slight edge over the Wild
cats. As far as comparative scores may
be relied upon for dope this year, the
under dog is supposed to win. There-
fore, either team stands a chance to win
or the Wildcats are supposed to come out
on top.

State has a rather enviable record.
They defeated Elon at the very first of
the season, 39 to o. A short time after
this game, they journeyed to Florida and
licked the Gators 12 to 6. Wrecking the
hopes of the state teams, they took Wake
Forest on for a 30 to 6 win, and ran over
Carolifia to the tune of 19 to 6.

Davidson, on the other hand, is just
beginning her state race to maintain her
record of 1926.>~Beginning early in the
season, she took Elon across the goal line
for four touchdowns and a 27 to O score.

near the last of the game there was
quite a noticeable change in the line
when Jim Grey was put in. If he and
Johnny Melton could have been in there
the whole game, the result would prob-
ably have been different.

Custom-built
Tailored

you.

pervisio

accurately and

your selection.

FORRESTER

of Mr. Frank For-
rester, who knows the design
of College Clothes.

Mr. I. Nusbaum, a tailor who
is skilled in his trade, will
have wiih him a complete line
of the latest and most attrac-

tive materials. He will fit you

The Students Store

| . Monday and Tuesday, Nov. 7th and 8th: |

clothes to fit

under the su-

assist you in

__ td

The Wildcat sprinters were downed by
Duke’s Blue Devils, in the cross-country
meet, held at Davidson, by a score of
15-44 last Saturday.

Tuttle and Wodoward, Duke sprinters,
Were the first to come in, making the
course in 19 minutes and 27 seconds.
Four more of the Methodists crossed the
goal line before Lafferty, the first David-
;soOn man completed the run, then came
|Newman. The next in order were:
| Thrower, Beavers, Sloop, Treverton, and
| Wilkerson.
| Bob Sloop is the only man left of Da-
| Vidson’s last years cross country team.
| He participated in‘all the meets last year
|and bids fair to be one of the foremost
| Stars this season,
| Lafferty holds the record for the best
time, having made the course in 20 min-
utes and. 24 seconds. Thrower, Beavers
and Nunan also showed good form in last
Saturday’s meet.

Tuttle and Wodward, of the Duke Uni-
versity team, are exceptionally good run-
ners. Woodward is the captain of this
year’s team, and both won all-state hon-
ors last season. Previous to the David-
son meet, the Duke team downed Wash-
ington and Lee with a score of 19 to 36.

Davidson isto meet State College in a
cross-country meet next Saturday, at
Greensboro. This meet will be a critical
test for both teams, as the course is a

very difficult one. Redfern State’s
best man.

is

STUNT NIGHT

(Continued from Page 1)
saw solo. The next to last presentation
Was a one-act play put on by the Dramat-
ic Club, under the direction of Professor
Erwin and V.-J. Guthery. It was adrama
of the war and peculiar"means were used
to reform a drunken captain.

The final event on the Program was the
singing of “O! Davidson,” by the Glee
| Club.
Stunt Night is an annual event on
| Homecoming Day, put on by the differ-

| ent classes and organizations on the
| Hill,

|
|The Florida Gators dropped a game to
jthe Wildest Wildcats in Gainsville, on a
| muddy field, to the tune of 12 too. How-
}ever Davidson met Wake Forest and
| Played them to a 13 to 13 tie, making it

the fourth tie game in as many years.

Davidson has yet to play the three strong-
jest teams in the state; State, Carolina,
j and Duke on November Sth, 12th, and
| 24th, respectively.

}

BIG FIVE

Player College

SSreccececoooo eo So SoS Ooo COO O SoSH -:
HM NERANAAAAANADANAYHONHNHODOMNBREY

DS SD S rt et et bet te nt pt tt het pet ht mht tt NN Od Od de
mOoOnmrmeoooooooeooeooOoOKrF OAC OK OOH OWSCO

Cross Country Runners

Blue Devil Team Takes First
Five Places

Wildkittens’ Third Game
to be Played in Durham

Davidson Fresh to Meet Duke
Fresh November 4th

The coming game of the D. C. Freshmen
with the Duke Rat team bids fair to furnish
quite a bit of excitement. The fray, which
takes place on November 4th, in Durham,
tends to be in the Wildkitten’s favor, but
there will have to be considerable fighting
displayed as evinced by the fact that the
Duke Imps played the State Freshmen to a
scoreless tie. . However, the Duke\ aggrega-
tion was defeated by Oak Ridge by a score
of 14-7, which places the Durham team-_and
D. C. on the same level, as it was the Oak
Ridge team that gave the Wildkittens a drub-
bing. No doubt the Duke Rats will be primed
and it is up to the D, C. Freshnién to put up
a good fight.

The D. C. line-up seems to be in .good
shape for its jaunt up to Durham. Captain
Goodykoontz’s leg is coming around in fine
shape which is an encouraging note to D. C.
backers. The Fresh backfield shows up
mighty well, with Estridge, David and Pope
as the mainstays. These players are de-
veloping the backfield into a very efficient
bunch of ground gainers. The Fresh line is
coming along well, too. Brock and Foil are
showing splendid form at guard, while Cov-
ington at tackle is ranked by many as among
the best.

Having beaten Wofford in a game which
critics say should have yielded at least four
touchdowns to the Davidson team, the
Wiildkitten supporters, while not overconfi-
dent, are looking forward toa favorable out-

come in the game. with the Duke Freshmen.

Big Five Team in
Championship Race

>

Football fans all over the state are eagerly
awaiting the outcome of this week’s matches
With an eye to seeing to whom the laurels of
this season will be given. The Blue Devils
of Duke University and State's Wolf Pack
both have perfect records thus far as regards
the championship for 1927. The Wildcats,
champions for the past season of 1926, may
be decided by this Saturday's game when they
meet State in Greensboro. As yet Davidson
has neither won nor lost a game within the
State, having tied one, with the Wake Forest
Deacons, which team has lost two tilts to
date. Carolina, prophesied by “the wise
boys” as a strong threat, without winning a
single game in the state, has lost two tilts.

The following is a list of ‘statistics on the
Big Five teams:

SATURDAY’S RESULTS — Ble Sub Hd

Ve Mids 20a 3 es Davidson 0
1D) ts © 4 rs Sie ee a Wake Forest 6
Nota otate 195. ooo Carolina 6

WHERE THey play this week — Ble Sub
Davidson ys. State,
Carolina vs. V. M. I. a
Wake Forest vs. Furman. \
STANDINF of the Teams — Ble Sub
Won Lost Tied Pet.

pile 2 es 1 0 0 © 1,000
State ie 2 0 0O- ‘1,000
Davidson _-------. 00D} .500
Wake Forest... 1 2 1 .400
Carolina _._______ 0.2.9 000

(Continued from page 1)

cause there were no young men to take
the place of those champions who are los-
ing their skill because of age.

“A great athlete,” Paddock says, “is
one who at the crisis can add to his nat-
ural ability something better than his
best, and’ one who ‘trains rigorously to
make this possible. He cited many fa-
Mous ‘examples of comebacks made by
men who had the will to win and the
grit to train for it.

.At this point, he gave an interesting
explanation of the science of running,
that branch of sport with which he is so
familiar and in which he excels.

Paddock, as a last thought, showed
how athletics have brought an interna-
tional spirit of unity and how good spors-
manship is permeating games wherever
sport is found. His final admonition was
“Whether

you win or lose, give the best
you have” == iS ee

OPPONENTS’ SCORES
Citadel ------- 0 South Carolina. 6
Florida ------- 32 Mercer ------. 6
Wofford ~----- 0 Clemson ------ 6
Blof cesdeccues 31 Guilford ------ 13
Wake Forest -- 6 Duke --------- 32
N. C. State -..19 U.N. C. ------ 6

Coming State-D. C.
Gattis to Tell Much

Whether or not Davidson will remain in

the race for state championship honors will
be decided Saturday at Greensboro in the
game with N. C. State. The game will be
called at 2:30 o’clock and it promises to be
one of the hardest fought games on the
schedule.

In reviewing the outcome of games with
N. C. State that have already passed into
history, it is found that they have met with
each other a total of 19 times. Of the 19
games played the scores of three were un-
available; of the others, four were tied, four
were won by Davidson, and the remaining
eight were decided in favor of State.

The following is a schedule of the games:

1899—Davidson_-___ 0 State----------- 0
1900—Davidson_---17.  State-...------- 0
1901—Davidson_-_-.6  State_---------- 27
1902—Davidson.--. 5 . State----------- 0
1905—Record unavailable. ©
1907—Davidson.... 0 State----------- 6
1908—Davidson_-_-_ 0  State------_---- 21
1912—Record unavailable.

1913—Record unavailable.
1916—Davidson_._. 0 State Eee geet ert 0
1917—Davidson___. 3 Bel wep 7
1919—Davidson-_-_ 6 Statezz_-------- 36
1920—Davidson.... 0 State-.--------- 23
1921—Davidson_-___ 3. State----------- 3
1922—Davidson.... 0 State---.------- 15
liget-eDavidentin. 6. States sous. 12
1924—Davidson_---10 State--_---_---- 10
1925—Davidson_.-. 9 , State___-------- 0
1926—Davidson---. 3 State--------_-- 0

Sophs Forge Ahead
in Class Basketball

Wednesday, November 2nd, the Juniors
and Freshmen engaged in the last basketball
game of the first round of the inter-class
tournament. The next game will be between
the Seniors and Sophomores on Friday. This
will be the initial game of the second round.

With their victory over the Seniors last
Monday night in an exciting contest the
supremacy of the Sophomores in basketball
this year seems assured. This encounter was
full of thrills from the start to the final whis-
tle. At the end of the last half the score was
tied, 31 to 31; but after an extra final period
had been playd, the Sophs had gained four
points and the game went to them, 35 to 31.

The Freshmen are showing up unusually
well this year and should accomplish some-
thing toward helping the varsity next year;
they hold second place in tournament so far.
The Juniors and Seniors are tied for third
place, the Seniors having a slight edge over
the Juniors. Although they now hold first
place and are undefeated, the Sophomores
are not forgetting that they have the Fresh-
men with whom to. contend, and they are not
apt to get over-confident because of their re-
cent victories.

The inter-class basketball tournament is
held to develop class spirit, to facilitate the
choosing of men for the varsity and also the
Prospects for the varsity and to give men,
who cannot make the varsity, a chance to
play the game.

Charley Carson is the basketball manager,
and Ben Wilson, captain of ‘the varsity, is
doing most of the class team coaching.

COLLEGE DELEGATES

(Continued from page one)
ranged by the executive committee, which
also selects the place for the next meet-
ing. The committee is composed of six
men, the three officers for the conference,
and ‘three ‘men elected to serve on the
committee. The only Davidson’ faculty
member on the committee for the coming
year is Dr. T. W, Lingle. The officers for
the coming year are, President, President
Few, of Duke; Vice-President, President
Hilley, of Atlantic Christian College; Sec-
retary, Prof. N. W. Walker, of Univer-
sity of North Carolina. executive
committee is composed of these officers
and the following, Professor Brooks of
N. C State; Professor Lingle, of David-

son; and Prof. J. A. Highsmith, of N.
Cw. rt ;
