THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 17, 1927

PLAYING THE GAME
With Withers

Class Track Meet
High Schools Invited
Spring Practice Over
Lid to be Pried Off

oped or uncovered last Saturday at the
Class Track Meet, several men showed |
promise and helped to lighten’ the gloom |
that has hung around the cinder path for
the last few years. The meet was a nip-
and-tuck affair all the way from the first
pistol crack until the last echo of the a
. nouncer’s final blast. First the Juniors,
somewhat of a dark horse, jumped into the |
lead and held the pivot position for half |
of the meet.

classes were not warmed up.

But the stars of the two lower |
After about |
half the events had gone along the primrose
way, it was evident that the Fresh and_ the
Sophs would fight for the prize. In the
bitter end and the 29-ers out first
by a one point margin.

came
F ea

Probably the most surprising turn came
when Brown, a Junior, tossed the javelin
a goodly number of feet farther than all
contestants. This tow-headed man hadn't |
been counted in the reckoning and did much |
to keep in the running. ‘The
sedate seniors were hoplessly outdistanced
from the start.

his class

Kell, Flynn, Bailey and Smith of the
Sophs, Whittle of the Fresh, and Trevaton |
of the Seniors were probably the best bets
on the field in addition to Brown. Other
names could easily be mentioned but
these men entered a number of events they
should receive more attention.

as

ee

The freshmen seem to have an excellent
dash man in Whittle. In fact he took part
in many of the events other than the short
distances and proved to be above the aver-
age in eac hinstance. Brohardt ran a pretty
race in the 440, scampering home in 55
seconds. This is considered very good for
this early in the season and especially as
the track is in poor condition. Due to the
fact that no letter men were: allowed to
enter the contests, the meet was com-
paratively slow, but was much better and
faster than the one held last year.

Nearly a score of North Carolina high
schools are planning to enter the invitation
track meet to be held here this Saturday.
This occasion has taken the form of an
annual affair, drawing prominent cinder
path stars from all Tarheeldom. Charlotte
high won the meet last year by a top-heavy
margin. The Davidson Wildkittens ran the
Queen City boys a close race but were not
eligible for the trophy offered by the Ath-
letic Association. It is understood that this
year the freshmen will compete’ but will
not receive points.

Spring football practice ended Saturday
night with the members of the squad heay-
ing sighs of relief. Only one regular game
was played this spring but in the numerous
scrimmage of the gurelling months several
promising freshmen and upperclassmen were
uncovered. The most pleasing result of the
training period was probably the progress
made by Tommy James, James, always a
consistant runner, developed a style of short
and long spurts somewhat similar to those
of Dick Grey. Baker and Harmon, tackles,

VOCATIONAL INSTITUTE

(Continued from page 1)

be taken except by those who have made
a regular habit of saving. The first $1000
is hardest to get, but others come easy in
Proportion.” '

The speaker gave the three “C’s” of
business ethics. “You' must have physical
courage as well as moral courage—courage
to stand up for one’s convictions and for
the principles of life and business; cour-
age to keep going in the face of what ap-
pears sometimes as insurmountable difficul-
ties. You must have confidence—in the
business and in yourself; if you succeed, so
does the business; if ou fail, the business
fails; it is a reciprocal relationship. Third,
you must have' character, for after all, that
is the underlying principle of all business,
and without character, you can not make

*a success,

He closed by saying that “you can suc-
ceed in the grinds of the business world
if you have the courage to fight for your
Position, confidence in yourself to never stop
driving, and character to conduct your busi-
ness on fair and square principles.”

Although no flaming stars were ae

Next Year’s Football Schedule to be Most
Extensive in History of Davidson Athletics

Younger Takes Over
Baseball Practice

After having finished the basketball and
spring . football seasons, Coach Monk
Younger has now taken over the training
of the baseball men. Practice started
earnest last Monday, and now the thirty
or more men who are trying for places

|on the Davidson nine this year have settled
/down to hard work.
| was still busy with the other sports, Coach

While Coach Monk

Maddox supervised the early baseball prac-
tices and began to get the men lined up
and in shape. The first game is scheduled
with Oak Ridge here the 25th of this month.
So there will be plenty for the baseball
men to do the next few days, getting ready
for this first game.

Although the team lost some very valu-
able men with the graduation of last year’s
Senior Class, there is some very promising
material from which to fill their places;
and as things look this early in the season,
it seems that a very creditable team will
be built up around those letter men who
are left.

The pitching and catching staffs prob-
ably suffered the most from graduation.
Still some very good men are out for the
mound and back-stop positions, and there
will likely be some very keen competition
before they are filled. This early in the
season no very certain estimate can be given
of the respective abilities of the several play-
ers. As things now stand it seems that
Black, Wilson, McGeachy, and Ramsey are
showing up best, in the order named, of
those who are out for catcher. On the
mound Wells, Meadows, “Fril” Cathey,
Oden, Bill Cathey and Hampton are show-
ing up well, with the fitst three named
probably making the strongest bids for the
position.

Captain Woodham will. hold down _ his
regular position at first, Crawford, McCon-
nell, and Allan are all showing up well in
practice in this position and will probably
prove valuable men,

Bobby Glenn is looking good in his reg-
ular position at second, but McAuley and
Harrison are also showing very decided
ability on this sack.

Johnny Dulin is the most promising pros-
pect for third. There is a possibility that
Harrison or McAuley will be shifted to
this position.

At short Johnny Kugler, who last year
played both at short and at second, and
Fritz Littlejohn are both showing up very
well, It will probably be a extremely close
race between these two for the regular place
on the-varsity nine.

In the outfield positions Ratchford, John-
son, Davis, and Murray are looking promis-
ing at present. Wells, McDonnell and Al-
lan are also showing good form in these
positions and may be shifted to the out-
field.

also gavg promise of wining a permanent
place in the “thin red line” of next fall.

The first game of the baseball season is
not far away. Captain Woodham and his
cohorts have about caught the hang of things
again and now the men who were graduated
from freshman ranks are being taught the
fine points of the game. Freshman Coach
Mattox has been conducting most of the
practices, but has now turned the reigns
over to Coach Younger and has taken full
charge ‘of the yearling crowd.

| Three Games to be Played on Hill
| NINE CONTESTS
' Seaiae to Open With the Citadel in

| Gastonia—Closes With Duke
| Here

a |
m

Davidson’s 1927 football schedule is the
most extensive as well as the hardest one
that it has ever had. Year by year new
teams have been appearing on the schedule,
which means that new territory becomes ac-
quainted with Davidson as a college and with
Davidson football men as a team. The in-
crease in the number of teams of importance
over that of last year is shown by the fact
that for next year four Southern Confer-
ence teams will be met, where formerly only
two were played. This action shows that
the college is becoming well known and
that the State Champions are recognized in
athletic circles all over the South.

Of the nine games to be played, three
of them will be played at Davidson, five
away from home, while the place for the
Wake Forest game is yet undecided. The
Citadel will be played at Gastonia so the
majority of the students will be able to
attend that game. A great many of them
will also be able to attend the one at Spar-
tanburg against Wofford. North Carolina
State will be met at Greensboro, and if
shortened class periods can be obtained from
the faculty, many students will be able to
back the team by their presence at Greens-
boro.

Homecoming day has been set for October
29, when Davidson plays V. M. I. on*°Rich-
ardson Field. V. M. I’s team is expected
to be a strong one, as very few men were
lost from this year’s team. It is also ‘ex-
pected to be one of the heaviest teams in
the south, so an interesting and exciting
game, may be anticipated by everyone at-
tending. This year’s Homecoming was a
great success and plans are being made to
make next year’s-just as successful as last
year,

_The schedule as given by Porf. W. W.
Woods, follows:

Sept. 24.—The-. Citadel at Gastonia.

Oct. 1—University of Florida at Gaines-
ville.

Oct. 8.—Wofford at Spartanburg.

Oct. 15.—Elon at Davidson.

Oct. 22.—Wake Forest (place undecided).

Oct. 209—V. M. I. at Davidson.

Nov. 5.—N. C. State at Greensboro.

Nov. 12.—University of North Carolina
at Chapel Hill.

Nov. 24.—Duke University at Davidson.

Belk—“You should see what fine straw-
berries we raise down in Florida.”

Farrell—‘I suppose you use fertilizer
on them don’t you?”

Belk—“Oh, no. Just sugar and cream.”

You’ll always find a well-

equipped U-Drive-It Ford

at the right price at

Henderson’s Filling Station

DAVIDSON, N C.

Introducing to the readers of

2 MR. GEORGE BRYAN (Davidson 1875-76)
Member-of the Board of Trustees and Attorney

RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

The Davidsonian

Wilson and Carson
Named as Leaders

At a meeting of the letter men of the
Davidson basketball squad Thursday, March
10, A. Wilson, of Marion, N. C., lanky
Wildcat center, was elected captain for the
coming year. Wilson, besides being provid-
ed by nature with all the requisites of a
good center, is possessed of a fighting spirit
which has cooled the ardor of many an op-
posing forward.

He was considered by many 7s, deserving
an all-state berth. Dr. Sloan, well-known
Charlotte oculist, and Davidson alumnus,
was overheard to say that the Wildcat
whipped the N. C. Monograms of Charlotte
chiefly because of the manner in which
Wilson covered Newcomb.’

At a meeting of the athletic council and
the basketball team which was held on
Thursday, March~10, C. C. Carson of Bris-
tol, Va., was elected varsity manager of
the Davidson basketball team for next year.
He was elected by the team. This is the
new method of electing managers which
was given its first trial last fall in the elec-
tion of the football manager.

Assisting Carson next year will be L. C.
Wadsworth, W. E. Phifer and J. B. Moria-
rity. These men were chosen by the ath-
letic council as Junior assistants.

Carson is a member of the Kappa Alpha
Social Fraternity. Boyce Martin, of At-
lanta, Ga., was also a Junior manager dur-
ing the season just closed.

STUDENTS AND ALUMNI HERE

(Continued from page 1)
resentative of Schiffman Jewelry Co., of
Greensboro.

Announcement of winner of Norris
Trophy Cup, and presentation by Dr. J. M.
Douglas.

Singing of “O, Davidson,’ by the as-
semblage.

In addition to this program, officials in
charge announce that several surprises will
intersperse it during the evening. Effort

-|has been made to. have many of the letter

men at Davidson return for this: event, and
its inception last year is expected to be-
come an annual event of great significance

Golf Tournament to

be Held Here Soon

All those intending to go out for the
Davidson golf team will be interested to
know that a meeting is to be held soon
for the purpose of deciding on the details
of a tournament. The date for this meet-
ing has, not yet been definitely decided upon
due to the difficulty in picking a date con-
venient for all those interested. Manager
Steve McFill was not able to give details in
regard to the tournament.

In the fall tournament McGill came out
first; Wolfe, second; Love, third; Martin,
fourth; and Mills, fifth.

In the spring tournament now under con-
templation any student is eligible for the
team. In addition to the above ‘mentioned
men, Tunnings, Lingle, Menzies and several
otheres are expected to show up well. Here-
tofore six men have made the team.

If the constitution is wrecked by col-
lege debaters who argue the merits and
demerits of Prohibition eternal obloquy
will not descend upon two. North Dakota
colleges. They notified Pi Kappa Delta Na-
tional Forensic Society that they will not
prepare debating teams to argue that the
Volstead Law needs amendment to ‘per-
mit the sale of light wines and beers. The
society chose as the year’s subject for
men’s forensics: “Resolved that the Vol-
stead Law be amended to permit the sale
of light wines and beer.”

Dakota Wesleyan University, through
its president, E. D. Kohlstedt, protested
against the subject and declared that no
Wesleyan debater would lift his voice in
the affirmative, but offered to develop a
team to uphold the negative of the “un-
ethical” question against all comers.
Northern State Teachers College of Ab-
erdeen seconded the protest, declaring
that. the subject “verges on repudiation
of the Constitution,” and saying: “This
college stands for law enforcement.” —
New Student.

EAT AT THE

ASTORLUNCH
SERVICE

THE BEST OF COOK-
ING

J

and each night is observed.

Charlotte, N. rom |

CHARLOTTE
GREENVILLE

S& W Cafeterias

}

ASHEVILLE
RALEIGH

Everything a good Drug Store

can supply
WHITE DRUG COMPANY

DAVIDSON, N. C.

The

15 E. Trade St.

a

EXCLUSIVE AGENTS

Selz Shoes, Adler Collegian Clothes
Complete line of High-Grade Haberdashery

THE SHOP FOR MEN

Campus Representative, R. B. MCQUEEN |

Vogue

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

