6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 13, 1927.

Novel Tea Room Opened to
_ Student Body Last Monday

Davidson can now boast of a new asset,
the Nelly Bly Tea Room, located in the old
Delta Theta Chi Hall. The managers,
Misses Nelly Bly Gwyn and Nell Summers,
both of North Wilkesboro, feel that it will
be a great success, since it is the only one of
its kind between Charlotte and Mooresville.

“We are going to cater especially to the
students,” said Miss Gwyn, “and will remain
open till late at night to serve them.” Spe-
cial arrangements are being made to serve
regular board, and breakfast will be served
till 9:30 every morning for any who wish to
sleep until time for chapel.

The room is beautifully decorated. Among
other attractions it has an open fireplace,
which will make it very home-like. Then
there is a victrola which will furnish music
for the patrons. It is equipped with small
tables which will make it much more at-
tractive.

”
PP

O. MAX GARDNER

(Continued from page one)
denominational shools and colleges of our
state merit and should ceceive the active sup-
port of and sympathetic co-operation of our
Christian citizens.

In talking about Woodrow Wilson, he said
that the influence of the college on Wilson’s
life could never be fully told. The future
President flourished on the ambitions that he
got here to lead a large life. He cultivated
wisdom and an understanding heart. He
quoted Wilson on officials in Washing-
ton, “Some men grow, others simply swell.”
This is a very important thing for people
who enter public life to remember, for if you
swell, it is strong evidence that you have
quit growing.

“If you are called upon to hold public of-
fice, let me urge upon you to value its respon-
sibilities above its powers or privileges, and
never for a moment forget that in the high-
est sense, public office is a public trust.”

Naxwell Chambers Hotel

“The best board on
the Hill”

A trial is all we ask

Student managers

D. A. CURRIE J. W. MELTON

WHO’S WHO IN SERVICE AND QUALITY

R.0.T.C. Parade Gets

Praise From State

Last Wednesday, October 5th, the David-

son College R. O. T. C. battalion held, its

first parade of the year. According to Cap-
tain Daugherty and Lieutenants Otto and
Beckett, the parade was a success considering

the short time that the unit has been drilling
this year,

After executing a few maneuvers, the bat-
talion formed and passed before the review-
ing officers, consisting of Captain Daugherty,
Lieutenants Otto and Beckett, Cadet Major
Arbuckle and his staff. After passing in re-
view once, the officers of all the companies
held a pow-wow and then the parade was re-
peated.

Last year Company /‘C” received the best
rating in the battalion’ Another will be held
in the near future.

As every Davidson man knows, there are
fwo literary societies at Davidson. These so-
cities, the Eumenean, and the Philanthropic,
were organized in 1837, the year that the col-
lege was founded. In past years these socic-
ties have split into four groups, the two pre-
viously named the Pandenic, and the Metro-
philian. It was only during the last part of
the past year that the societies were re united
into the two original groups. The Eume-
nean and Pandenic united and the Philan-
thropic and Metrophiljan united. The original
halls, built in 1837, are still used.

H. B. Arbuckle is president of the Eume-
nean Society and Henry Powell is at the head
of the Philanthropic. Each of these socie-
ties have -had their opening feeds and pro-
rams. Committees have been appointed te
select Freshmen suitable for membership,

The societies are united in an effort to
procure college credit for: literary’ sdciety
work, Both societies are striving to place
their programs on the highest possible stand-
ard.

Both of these bodies are looking forward
to a successful year, The members ofthe
faculty have promised more co-operation
than they have given in the past few years.
Both societies will meet every Thursday
night at: 8:00 o’clock. The enthusiasm and
effort which these societies are showing
should enable them to realize a productive
and successful year.

CITY DRY CLEANERS

W. L. HOBBS, Prop.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

Represented by
Neely and McCravey, 108 West

Six for Five

Will Call on You Monday and Thursday Nights.

We Strive to Please

Fall and Winter Showing
Suits, Topcoats, Hats
Shoes, Haberdashery

Tuesday,

at

Henderson’s

MELLON’S

Charlotte, N.C.

Oct. 18th

>

RPSL TR ET SELL OTE Te

are;

Initiation of Phi Beta
Kappa Scheduled Early

in Month of December

Students, Professors and Alumni
Eligible for Membership

FALL INITIATION

Not More Than 12 Per Cent of
Senior Class Can, Be Initiated
During Year

The North Carolina Gamma Chapter of
Phi Beta Kappa will hold its semi-annual,
initiation, secret and public, early in Decem-
ber.

those in the Senior class who have been lead-
ing in scholastic honors, while that in May
will probably take in those next in standing.
The speaker for the occasion has not yet been
chosen. The names of those who will be
elected are not known at this time. The fra-
ternity will hold two private meetings during
the year, one in October and the other in
March, according to their constitution.
Those eligible for bids are members of the
Senior class, alumni, and members of the
faculty. The men of the graduating class ate
choseri on a basis of scholarship and well
rounded leadership: A maximum of 12%
per cent of the Senior class may be elected.
It is rare, however, that so large a per cent

‘are taken in, only five being chosen from the
class of '27, Alumni candidates cannot be|;

elected until 14 years after graduation, except

MM cases‘of special prominence after leaving

Davidson. They are bid on a combined basis
of scholarship while in college and service
outside. Honorary members are chosen from
the professors here who made a scholastic
record at some other school .which did not
have a chapter of Phi Beta Kappa.

The ‘officers of the chapter at Davidson
Dr. Lingle, president ; Professor Wood,
vice-president; Professor Foreman, secre-
tary. :

Three Fraternities
~Move Three Houses

During the summer months, three of the
fraternities at Davidson have moved their
houses to better locations. These fraternities
are: Phi Gamma Delta, Kappa Sigma, and
Delta Theta, Chi,

The Phi Gams have moved out to that sec-
tion of town known to the student body as
“Faculty Heights.” They have furnished
their house, very attractively, and have had
it newly painted. They are in a very good
location, since they are surrounded on all
sides by the homes of members of the
faculty.

The Kappa Sigmas have moved to Turbe-
ville’s, just opposite The Davidsonian office
on Main street. It is the most centrally lo-
cated fraternity house in town. :

Delta Theta Chi has moved its rooms to
the house left vacant by Phi Gamma Delta.
This house is located:on South Main street,
and is owned by Mrs. White.

The Theta Upsilon Omega house, on North
Main street, which was partially demolished
by fire this summer, has been refitted, and re-
painted, and the members of this fraternity
are well satisfied with its condition.

The other houses are located as follows:

| Pi Kappa Alpha, on North Main street, next

to Professor Wood’s home. Kappa Alpha,
next to the old Williamson place: Pi Kappa
Phi, next to Professor Williams’. Sigma
Delta, on the Charlotte road. Beta Theta
Pi, next to the High School. Sigma Alpha
Epsilon, next to Goodrum’s store.

hae

HAIRCUT?

WE GIVE
PROMPT
AND
SATISFACTORY
SERVICE

NORTON’S

BARBER SHOP

-| share of honor graduates in the R. O. T. C.

Another initiation will take place in,
May. The December initiation will include |’

WAR DEPARTMENT HONORS |
|

(Continued from page one) |
| in the United States, the eight states compris-

|ing the Fourth Corps Area have again dis- |
tinguished themselves by having had desig-

nated more than twice their proportional

department.

To be designated-as an honor graduate of
a distinguished college or an honor military
school the graduate has the privilege of ac-
cepting a commission in the regular army or
appointment to the United States Military
Academy at West Point, without their being
tested mentally, provided that there should be
any vacancy at the time.

Davidson College was chosen this past year
as one of the honor colleges in the ourth
Corps Area for the second succeeding year.
Each year the military colleges and schools
of the country are subjected to an inspection
by regular army officers. Ou this basis the
ranking schools that have military instruction
as a part of their course are selected as the

honor schools in their particular corps area
for the ensuing year,

The young men so distinguished as having
excelled in military training and scholastic
standing as designated by the War Depart-
ment were as follows:

From the Georgia School of Technology,

Atlanta, Ga.: James A. Banton, Paul M.
Edwards, Homer D. Fincher, Augustus .W.
Gunn, Willis P. Lanier, Frank C. Marshall,
and Jonathan F, Nicholl.
* From Clemson Agricultural College, S. C.:
James K. Avent, John H. Baker, Henry K.
Brabham, Ottis R. Causey, Robertson T. Lit-
tle, Casper P. West, and James E. Young-
blood.

From Alabama Polytechnic Institute, Au-
burn, Ala.: John E. Barnes, Clyde Hen-
dricks, Forney H. Ingram, Harris S. Lynne,
William H. H. Putnam, and John M. Wilder.

From Louisiana State University and’ A. &
M. College, Baton Rouge, La.: Edwin P.
Athens, Fred. J. Grace,-Jr., Carl C. McCoy,
and Kenneth J. Ozment.

From the University of Florida, Gaines-
ville, Fla.: Clyde Davis, Wellington V.
Heusted, Jr., and Ralph N. Nimmons.

From Davidson College, Davidson, N. C.:
William. Green, and Kelly V. Woodham.

From Georgia Military Academy, College
Park, Ga.; Dan Gilmer, Aubrey B. Hutchi-
son, and Saint Elmo M. Massengale, Jr.

From Riverside Military Academy, Gaines-
ville, Ga.: Neil C. Berry, F.. Franklin, P.
Langbehn, and Edward M. Love.

Freshmen Erect Bleachers
| in Preparation for Games

The Freshman class this year willingly
agreed to assist the Athletic Association in
erecting bleachers which will be used during
the football contests of this season. Under
the management of “Spike” McGee the
Freshman class has been at work for about
two weeks erecting the stands around the
football field, The Freshmen have been
working with a will and have shown a whole-
hearted interest in the work that is a credit
to the class. 4

All Freshmen are required to come out and
assist. They are placed in groups in alpha-
betical order, and if one fails to report on
the day appointed for his group, he is re-
quired to do double duty. If he still fails to
come out he is turned over to the student
Court of Control, which takes disciplinary
measures. At present little more than half
the stands have been put up, but by Saturday,
October 15th, the date for the Elon game,
there will. be enough up to give the stands a
seating capacity of six thousand. This also
includes the new concrete stadium that was
built last fall. When all the stands have
been erected the field will have a seating ca-
pacity of about eight or ten thousand.

After football season, the Freshmen will
have to take the stands down, and then when
baseball season opens will have to assist in
re-erecting them. _

Mr. Augustus Walker Bachman, ex-’26, _
was married to Miss Jeannette Shaw
Strause at the Holy Innocents Episcopal
Church on the morning of September
oth, with the rector Rev. I. W. Hughes,
officiating. Immediately after the cere-
mony Mr. and Mrs. Bachman left for a
trip through the mountains of Western
North Carolina. They were visitors in
Davidson when returning to Edenton,’
where they will make their home. Mr.
Bachman is connected with the Farmers
Peanut Company in Edenton.

FELLOWS!

You'll always find a well-

equipped U-Drive-It Ford

at the right price at

Henderson’s Filling Station

DAVIDSON, N. C.

Topcoats $30.00 to 50.00

_ Nothing could conceivably be finer than the tailoring, the detail, the fit or
the sense of luxury in the new topcoat we’re showing for fall wear.

