6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 14, 1927

Easter Service at

‘Y’ Vespers Sunday! — Town News

Sunday evening will witness a special
For the past
several years it has been the custom of

The twenty-first annual meeting of the
Easter “Y” Vesper Service. Concord Presbyterial Auxiliary will be
held at Davidson, N. C., April 20, 21. The
the “Y” to hold a studént program during! opening session will begin at 2:30 p. m.
the Easter Holidays? At first it was plan-

ned to have the Glee Club give some

on Wednesday the 20th. An interesting

program is being arranged. This will in-
music at this time, however, since the! clude addresses by Rev. Darby ‘Fulton
Glee Cub and Quartet will be out of town) and Rev. H. W. McLaunghlin. About
' sixty delegates are expected to be pres-
lent. The sessions on Wednesday and

Thursday evenings will be open to the
ent is rather indefinite but will be com- | public.

pleted in time to arrange a good program |
for Sunday evening.

it will be impossible to hold the program

as first planned. The program as pres-

Dr. Frazer Hood, of Davidson College,
| will speak at the Rotary Club in Salis-
There will be no outside speakers, but) bury sometime in the near future on the
the “Y” officials are endeavoring to per-| science and art of salesmanship.
suade Jim Appleby, secretary of the! Dr, and Mrs. Hood and daughter ac-
“Y,” to give a short talk. If Jim con-| companied by Mr. Mac. Austin have re-
sents it will be first time that he has ever | cently returned from a trip through the
spoken before the local “Y.” country down to the magnolia gardens of
The program will be a devotional pro-| Charleston, Sag
gram featuring the spirit of Easter and| Miss Maude Vinson and Mrs. Buckner
will be entirely conducted by the stu-| spent the past week-end in Montreat.
dents and Y officers. Two characteristics | They drove through, being accompanied
are promised which should be of inter-
est to everyone, they are Student Pro-
gram and Brevity.
If the weather is fair and warm the)

Mrs. Lyon’s mother is visiting her at
her home in Davidson.

Mrs. R. J. Dougherity gave a tea for
services are to be held out-of-doors, if} Mrs. Lyon’s mother last Wednesday.
held outside they will be conducted in the} Rey. J. W. Lafferty, of the class of 1883
new stadium, This service if held out-| at Davidson, visited his sisters the Misses
side will be the first service held out-of-| Lafferty last week. Rev. Mr.Lafferty
doors since this time two years ago. The! makes his home at Rome, Ga.
service held two years ago was a failure! The 300k-Lovers’ Club will meet with
and so discouraged the “Y” that an at-| Mrs. E. F. Shewmake at 4 p. m., Friday

tempt was not thought of last year, how- | of this week;

ever this year’s “Y” believes that it can |
put it over. |
The following Sunday Dr. Workman, |

e e
following $ Many Inspiring Sermons
head of the Religious Department of the |
University of North Carolina, will speak | Offered by Dr. Gammon
at the “Y” Vespers. Dr. Workman is | 2 0 s
During Revival Services

the son of the President of Henderson-

3rown College, Ouachita, Ark. He was | SeRSnETS

formerly a professor in Southern Meth-| Columbia Quartette Ably Assists
odist University at Dallas, Texas, but| Speaker by Personal Interviews |
left there to go to North Carolina whets|

he is now.

[by Mr. Allan Frew.
|

The annual spring revival services were
drawn to a close by Dr. Gammon Wednes-
day, April 6th. While here Dr. Gam-
mon delivered some very inspiring talks,

The Sunday following the appearance
of Dr. Workman here the Honorable
Clyde R. Hoey, of Salisbury will speak
at the evening services. He is a noted |
lawyer and ex-congressman, | terviews with a number of the students,
| solving many of their perplexing prob-
| lems. During his meeting Dr. Gammon
parcial | was ably assisted by the Columbia quar-
(Continued from page 7) | tet, composed of Messrs. McIntosh,
edtorial of one issue we find: Cartiledge, McInnis and Dendy. Mr. Mc-
survived the rest of the year if no long-| Intosh being a former Davidson student,
er. Thus perished the first forerunner of | Of the class of '26.

The Davidsonian. The initial sermon was preached in

The embryo “The ‘Davidsonian”| the church on Sunday morning, the sub-
came out June 7, 1895. This college| ject being, “Whatsoever a man soweth,
journal was entitled “Timely Topics.” | that shall he also reap.” This sermon

DAVIDSON JOURNALS

of

and in his spare time he held private in-!

The Sophomore Class of 1897 was the

“Every member of the Sophomore Class
has an article in this paper, and no mem-
ber of any other class has written for
its columns. While this may not be the

| had a bearing on all others delivered with
| the one general idea that “If we were to
| have eternal life we must live a life of
righteousness while on earth.”

“One thing thou lacketst” was his text

way to secure the ideal college paper, it! Used at vesper service Sunday afternoon.
is the only way by which the class can) AS an illustration of his text Dr. Gam-
be fairly represented. It is perhaps need-|™on told of a man in his town who had
less to say that articles upon topics of | youth, riches, personality and character,
the day, selected with reference to the| but still was not happy—he lacked the
tastes of each member, are likely to be right relationship with God—the only
better written than. stiled composiions |

way to obtain this was to get rid of his}one way to accomplish this is through

riches which was the one thing that put] faith. We must connect a scale of values
until Jesus Christ above all
things and a life of righteousness must

be lived.

him in the Wrong relationship. Dr. Gam- value
mon pointed out that God calls on us to
give up that which is dearest to us and
follow Him.

For Monday morning chapel Dr. Gam-
mon selected as his topic, “Let your - ; :
light so shine.” In this Dr. Gammon after me.” Dr, Gammon pointed out that
urged us to consistently use our influence | “We under-emphasize the human side of
and responsibility in reflecting the life of | Jesus.” He said further, “In order to be
Jesus Christ in order that we may aid in a real Christian we must put out, to live
leading others to Christ. unselfishly, to live a life of service and to

In the evening he talked on “Judas| u

we

In his concluding sermon Dr. Gammon
took for his text “If any man will come

take up the cross and follow Him.” He
ended by saying “If you will come in!
will you come after Him?”

Make thee still better grades, O my son,

As swift semesters run;

Leave thy low flunking past;

Let each new grade, higher than the last

Bind thee thy sheepskin secure and fast

’Til thou at length art freed,

Leaving thy unused textbooks

For some other poor fool to read.
—Symnonymous.

fi,

Iscariot, the man who was trusted above
all others but being a traitor by nature, |
betrayed Christ. Little is known about
Judas until he came to Jesus. His sins}
originated in his love for money and
false ideas, starting off as little but en- |
larging until they were slimaxed by his |
betrayal of Jesus Christ. |

“Power” was the subject of the next

CHARLOTTE

talk. He said that the power of the
Church of today cannot be compared :
with the power of the early Church. GREENVILLE

Their power was not physical._power nor (
material power; but spiritual power, the

S& W Cafeterias

ASHEVILLE
RALEIGH

)

S
=

source of which is the Holy Spirit and

==

fr===

can only be obtained through prayer. It
is a great lack in the modern Church. |

A very interesting talk was given on
Daniel, the man who was unaltered in his
belief. Daniel may be contrasted to Judas
Iscariot, in that he had a definite pur-
pose in life, he was a man of moral and
physical courage, he was a man that put!
spiritual things first’ Dr. Gammon urged
the students not, to be a Judas, but a
Daniel, to have high ideals and to put
God first.

Dr. Gammon selected the well-known
passage of the Bible, “Seek ye first the,
kingdom of God,” as his next subject. The |

CAROLINA SWEETS

Next door Carolina Theatre

You’ll always find a well-

AFTER THE SHOW

SANDWICHES, DRINKS, CANDIES

We have for your service
TWO STORES

Piedmont Candy Kitchen

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

rr 7

PIEDMONT CANDY KITCHEN

Next door Alhambra Theatre.

fe

equipped U-Drive-It Ford

at the right price at

Henderson’s Filling Station

DAVIDSON, N. C.

.<

Charlotte

[G
H
'
H
H
H
1)
H
H
H
H
H
\)
H
H
H
'
H
q
H
H
H
H
H
’
‘
H
H
H

sy rrr rrr rrr rrr rrr rir rrr

TITIITIT III titi titi titttittiitiiiiti. tt
Ceeeeeeeee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eeeee neocon eee eee eee eee eee enn

Mooresville Ice Cream Company

Incorporated
MANUFACTURERS OF

“DE LUXE” ICE CREAM
BRICK AND FANCY CREAMS AND DeLUXE CUPS
Se Mooresville, N. C.
CALL US FOR SPECIAL ORDERS

mo

Transfer Company |

PHONE 298

BAGGAGE
AND TAXI
SERVICE

JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

_ THE KELLY CLOTHIN

CORRECT DRESSERS FOR

AND YOUNG ME

Mooresville, Statesville and Shelby

VA Y7 3 =e

Ie

“upon the glory that was Greece and the |
grandeur that was Rome.” |

The articles appearing in this are!
largely didactic, better suited for the mag- |
azine, but it was the first attempt of rep-
resentative college journalism at David-
son. It was printed at the Observer
Printing House. “ ‘Timely ‘ Topics’ is
modelled on the ‘Charlotte Observer.’ Tf}
anything is amiss in it, the readers are|
requested to blame the model.”

It was a mirror of campus life of those
days. There is a column headed “David-
son-Doings”-which-welt-applies to today.
Senior speaking was held April 12th and
13th, in the old chapel. The stage was
well decorated with the class colors, of
1895, and with evergreens (by the fresh-
man class), The speaking was very good
and only one or two had to be prompted
in their speeches, Messrs. Martin, Un-
derwood, and Wilson were chosen as rep-
resentatives to spéak at commencement.

Another article reflecting the life and
spirit of the campus is a program of the
dramatization of the history of the edit-
ing class.

tr

$50.00 up.

Correct this sentence: “And they went
to live with their mother-in-law, and
lived happily ever after.”

Which gives rise to the following ad-
vice: “If it comes-to-the-xrorst, don’t Zo
live with your mother-in-law; let her
come live with you.”

MEN’S
SECTION

Smart New Suits With

Two Pairs Pants

+30,

Including navy blue, cheviots, also gray, blue and tan mixtures; colle-

giate styles, splendid selections, specially priced, $30.00.
Fashion. Park Suits exclusive with Efird’s in Charlotte, priced from

STREET
FLOOR

