THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 24, 1927

Gaston Alumni Arrange Davidson Graduate Wins | Dr. Summey, Alumnus of |

to Honor Wildcat Team |
at Post-Season Banquet

Or’~rators of Footba'l Banouet
Idea Will be Hosts to Gridders
and Coaches Saturday

The Davidson College football team, fol-
lowing a custom inaugurated several years
ago, will be entertained at a banquet arrang-
ed in their honor by members of the Gaston
County Alumni Association in the private
dining room of the Armington Hotel, Gas-
tonia, on Saturday evening. This is the first
of a series of entertainments being planned
for the Wildcat gridders b yinterested alumni
throughout the state.

More than two score alumni, residing in or
near Gastonia, will attend the banquet, in ad-
dition to members of the Davidson football
team, members of the Davidson faculty, rep-
resentatives of the alumni office, and repre-
sentatives of the Charlotte Alumni Associa-
tion. An appropriate program, including
brief addresses by members of the Gaston
Association, the Davidson coaches and mem-
bers of the football team, has been arranged
for the occasion.

Invitations have been sent to all alumni by
Mr. Coit M. Robinson, president, and Mr.
Hugh A. Query, secretary, of the Gaston
Association. Special interest is being mani-
fest in the banquet in view of the fact that
the Gaston alumni were the first to establish
the custom of post-season dinners for the
football team more than five years ago, and
are always the first to entertain the Wildcat
moleskin wearers following the close of the
football season.

CHARLOTTE.
KNOXVILLE

S&e W Cafeterias |

are catering to you

(ATLANTA Soon)

Edinburgh S Scholarship |

|

Rev. John W. Groves, ’22 is One of |

Four Seminary Students Entering |
Edinburgh

Among four Louisville Theological Semi-
nary graduates entering Edinburgh Univer-
sity to pursue post-graduate studies this fall
was Rev. John W. Groves, graduate of Da-
vidson College in the class of 1922,

Groves entered Davidson from Kosciusko,
Miss., and was a student of great capabilities
and notable attainments. From Davidson, he
went to Louisville Theological Seminary,
from which he was graduated in the spring
of 1926, y ;

He was awarded the Mr. and Mrs. W. M.
Webb Fellowship in Hebrew and Old Testa-
ment Exegesis, the fellowship being awarded
to the best student in the Senior class of the
Seminary in Hebrew and Old Testament
Exegesis, Since his graduation in 1926, he
has served as supply pastor in various
churches in western Kentucky and also in his
native state of Mississippi.

A recent issue of the Louisville Seminary
Register carried Rev. Mr. Groves’ photo-
graph and an article telling of his enrollment
at Edinburgh University. Friends and for-
mer Davidson ‘classmates will be glad to
learn of his successes.

Newspaper dispatches have been encourag-
ing in their report of the condition of Irvin
Vance, who suffered a fractured ‘skull in an
automobile accident last Friday. Mr. Vance
is a brother of H. L. Vance, ’26.

ASHEVILLE
RALEIGH

SUITS

AND

TOPCOATS

Not in several years has
$40 bought so much in
fabric and tailoring. As
for the style---the models
are designed especially to

please the university man.

$40

Buys a splendid suit or
overcoat. Others $35 up.

Tate-Brown Co.

Davidson, Accepts Chair
of Theology at Austin

from Janitorsh’n at Asheville to
Professorship at Austin |

BRILLIANT CAREER

Is Lauded by Southern Newspapers
for Work

Announcement was made in last week's is-
sue of The Presbyterian Standard that Rev.
George Summey, D.D., graduate of Davidson
College in the class of 1870, had been granted

Orleans in order to assume the duties of pre-
fessor of theology at Austin Seminary, Aus-
tin, Texas, during the time that the occupier
of that chair is recovering from an illness.

In making editorial comment anent this ap-
pointment, the editor of The Standard re-
marked, “We have followed his course with
admiration and interest, and we have never
detected a false note in any of his utterances,
whether in pulpit or press. In these days of
erratic doctrinal stars in the theological
firmament, we congratulate the seminary that
they have secured a man sound in the faith, a
winner of souls, a successful pastor and a
man whose heart is full of the love of God.”

Dr. Summey’s career since he graduated
from Davidson College has been a brilliant:
one, compelling southern-wide interest. He
obtained his master of arts degree here, grad-
uated from Union Theological Seminary and
held various pastorates in Kentucky, Ten-
nessee, North Carolipa, South Carolina, and
for the past 24 years has been in New Or-
leans.

In addition to his pastoral services he has
been Moderator of the General Assembly of |
the Southern Presbyterian Church, editor of
the Theological Review of Richmond for 15
years, editor of the Southwestern Presbyte-|
rian of New Orleans for eight years, and
was formerly president of Southwestern |
Presbyterian Uniyersity. He was given the
doctor of divinity degree by Davidson.

During the past summer he visited his old |
home in Asheville; and preached from the
pulpit of the First Presbyterian Church of
that city, where he had served in another
capacity more than half a century ago. The
graphic account of his career, with a picture |
of Dr. Summey as he is today, appeared in
The Asheville Citizen, and is partly given |
below as a tribute to a man who has risen
to such great heights: |

“The barefooted, freckle-faced boy, who
more than a half century ago was janitor of
the First Presbyterian Church, today has_
come home to preach from its pulpit.

“In the lapse of all these years he has
mounted the steps of success and today is
pastor of one of the greatest churches in the
South—the Third Church of New Orleans. !

“He has occupied that church for 24 years.
Three years ago he was Moderator of the |
General Assembly of fhe Presbyterian
Church of the South. : |

“The South knows the barefooted janitor
boy now as Dr. Summey.... It will interest
Asheville folk to know that it was here he
obtained the basic knowledge which has since
carried him up to be both a great preacher
and a great editor. For 15 years he served
as editor of the Theological Review of Rich-
mond and New York, and for eight years
editor of the Southwestern Presbyterian of
New Orleans. .

“Dr. Summey was president of the college
in which Woodrow Wilson’s father held the
chair of theology. It was the Southwestern
Presbyterian University in Clarksville, Ten-

”

nessee. ...

Jack—“Have you heard the new swan
song?”

Will—“Why, no.”

Jack—“Ha, that’s swan on you.”—Vir-
ginia Reel.

He—“It’s strange that the biggest fools
always manage to get out with the most
beautiful girls.”

She—“Oh, you flatterer.”—

Ashland Col-
legian. 5

Barefoot. Fr-ckle-Feced ~ oy Cl'mbs occurred in Winston-Salem, Monday.

a leave of absence from his pastorate in New |”

i| ALUMNI PERSONALS

Friends of Col. F. H. Fries, '74, and H. E.
Fries, ’78, were grieved to learn this week of
the death of their brother, J. W. Fries, which’

Rev. H. A. Scott,
Fort Smith, Ark.

16, 2443 Sharon St.,

Howard Moss, ex-’25, has recently been
elected temporary chairman of a committee
which is undertaking the establishment of a
permanent alumni association of the Atlanta
Tech High School, and is in charge of ar-
rangements for an organization meeting and
banquet, according to newspaper items ap-
pearing in the Atlanta papers.

J. H. Carson, ’16, of Charlotte, has been
elected grand correspondent of the Forty and
Eight of the North Carolina Department of
the American Legion.

State newspapers recently carried accounts
of the beautiful celebration of the golden an-
niversary of Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Wil-
liams, of Mooresville, parents of S. Clay
Williams, '05, of Winston-Salem, Dr. J. Y.
Templeton, '09, of Mooresville, is a son-in-
law of Mr. and Mrs. Williams.

Several Davidson ministers have ‘recently
changed. their places of residence following
the acceptance of new pastorates. New ad-
dresses for those noted are:

Rev. W. P. Chedester, '01, Montreat.
Rev. C. D. Holland, ’10, Fallston, Md.
Rev. W. B. Sullivan, ’20, Monticello, Ark.

The Commercial National Bank

Charlotte, N. C. Founded 1847

Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your

banking needs.

4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit.

Trust Department under supervision of United States

Government. Make us your Executor.

Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000 00.
OFFICERS - :

R.A I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer

bof JOHNSTON, Vice-President J. B. DOAR, Aaet. Cashier?

. SUMMEBY, Vice-President M. T. WILLIAMS, Aseistant Cashier
FULLBR HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier

. DUNN, President

The New
ORTHOPHONIC
VICTROLA

The Finest Musical Instrument
in the World

Prices $95 to $1,000
All Models in Stock---Easy Terms

NEW RECORDS

EVERY FRIDAY

ANDREW’S

MUSIC STORE

Charlotte, N. C.

‘CREDENZA, $300.00 213 N, Tryon St.

A COMPLETE LINE OF
DRUGS AND SUNDRIES

WHITE DRUG CO.

RUINED

A SPRINKLER HEAD will discharg- over 1,000 gallons o' water in
30 minutes, or about $5 gall ns in 60 seconds.

No merchant or manufacturer can afford to be without our SPRINKLER
LEAKAGE POLICY.

The cost is a trifle compared with the protection.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT

CHARLOTTE, N. C.
“McALISTER CARSON ('13) Mgr.

M. 8 SPEIR, J (20,

