is]

| THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 24, 1927

mer

-- Sport Talk -:

News and Views of
Wildcat Events

By Raymond Lake

In looking back over the Freshman seasoff,4

we sees a situation, which, on its face, looks
very gloomy, and to say the least, discourag-
ing. However, on looking farther into the
matter, we realize that things are not nearly
so bad as they might at first seem, and that
something of value may yet turn up.

The Freshmen have played five games this
year and have won one. This probably
sounds very encouraging to the other mem-
bers of the Big Five who are looking into
the future with a selfish and keen eye, and
gives them high hopes of downing at least
one of their Big Five opponents with com-
Parative ease. Well, it’s a good thing to

Davidson Go'f Men Lose
“to Gastonia. Club Team

Mills Plays Unusually Good Game,
Defeating Champion

In the first competitive match of the year,
the Davidson College golf team emerged at |
the weaker end of an 11 to 4 score. The!
match was with the able team representing |
the Gastonia Country Club. Last Saturday |
morning was the date set for the match to be
‘played. The men who represented the col-
lege at this first contest of the season, and |

hitche your wagon to a star, and if the other , the order in which they played, is as follows:
“Big Fivers” do entertain such fond hopes | Arthur Mills, Ben Wilson, Walter Lingle,
as the above mentioned, they have done noth- |and Boyce Martin. Mills, who is a member
ing short ‘of hitching their wagon to a star. | of the present Sophomore class, and was a

; | member of last year’s team, was the only

There are several reasons for feeling opti-

mistic over the Freshman team. In the first
place, we could hardly expect a group of
players who had never seen each other before
to develop a team that would function prop;
erly in one short season. “But,” someone
says, “the other Freshman teams which have
downed the Wildkittens have not worked to-
gether any longer than the Wildkittens have,
and have labored under the same difficulties.”

The other teams of the state, and of
most other states, for that matter, are built
around and get their strength from, indi-
vidual players, most of whom are paid to
exhibit their prowess on the gridiron, while
Davidson teams are built around and get
their strength from‘two of the best coaches
in the country and from. that old Wildcat
Spirit, that spirit of fight thatsftst makes
them win even against overwhelming odds.

And that spirit can’t be developed in one
short season. It takes time-to develop it into
a team, but when once it is developed, nothing
short of overwhelming odds can stop them.
Then, too, the Freshmen have not yet had
the opportunity of working under Coach
Monk. They have been trained by an excel-
lent coach, it is true, and one who knows the
game of football, but even if they had been
trained under the greatest coach in the coun-
try, we would still expect a little more of
them after Coach Monk had worked with
them for a while.

| Davidson golfer to succeed in completely
conquering his opponent, though Ben Wilson,
' who was in the number two position, was able
| to score. upon his opponent, being, however,
| unable to beat him and thus win the match.
| Mills played an unusually good game, defeat- |

ing the Gastonia club champion.

| Arrangements are being made at the pres-
ent time with a view toward having a match
with the Statesville Country Club. This
club is reputed to have an excellent team, and
|if secured, the game should prove to be a
highly interesting encounter. Another match,
| between the college faculty and the student
| team, has been secured and should be played
| off some time during the latter part of this
| week.
| Some time during the month of December
| the annual invitation tournament will be held
|in Greensboro. This contest is open to teams
| of all of the colleges and universities of this
| part of the country, and it had been hoped
that Davidson would be able to join many of
the larger colleges of the state in being pres-
ent at this time. Lingle, the manager of the
team, has, however, announced that the team
will not be able to compete this fall, due to
several difficulties that have arisen. On the
other hand, it was stated that Davidson will
enter one of the numerous spring tourna-
ments that are of a nature somewhat similar
to this one to be held in Greensboro this
winter.

|
|

i

And they say that the new window
song is, “As through this world we wind-
ow way.”

TUXEDOS |

$40 and $50

Efird’s Men's Department. Main Floor

tie

MONK YOUNGER’S ALL-
STATE

Left End—Childress, State.

' Left Tackle-—Phelps, Wake Forest.
Left Guard—Farris, Carolina.
Center—Schwartz, Carolina.

Right Guard—Shuler, Carolina.
Right Tackle—Thompson, Duke.
Right End—Arrowood, Davidson.
Quarterback—Buie, Duke.

Left Half—McDowall, State.
Right Half—Warren, State.
Fullback—Jankoskie, Duke.

TEX TILSON’S ALL-STATE
Left End—Childress, State.

Left Tackle—Phelps, Wake Forest.
Left Guard—McColgan, Davidson.
Center—Schwart, Carolina.

Right Guard—Farris, Carolina.
Right Tackle—Thompson, Duke.
Right End—Goodwin, State.
Quarterback—Buie,’ Duke.

Left Half—McDowall, State.

Right Half—Warren, State.
Fullback—Jankoskie, Duke.

Davidson and Duke Work
for Third Place in Race

Davidson’s last game will be played
Thanksgiving Day, in Richardson Stadium,
with Duke as the opponents. Davidson start-
ed the season with a well-earned winning
streak, but was checked in her drive toward
the State Championship by the Wolfpack
outfit, and later downed by the Tar Heels at
Chapel Hill. Duke was running well for the
championship, but had to acknowledge de-
feat to the same two opponents, and in the
same respective order.
the Thanksgiving Day game one that will
decide whether the Wildcats: or the Blue
Devils tie Wake Forest for third place. With
last Satirday an open date for the Wildcats,
it afforded a period in which some of those
on the injured list could recover and get
back in for the practices. With this rest the
D. C. Boys have been whipped into shape and

These losses make}

Blue Stockings of P. C.
Crush Wildkittens, 32-6

| Davidson Fresh Team Unable to
| Get Together

History reversed itself last Friday when
“Monk” Mattox took his Freshman charges
to Clinton to engage Lonnie McMillan’s P.
C. Freshmen. The Blue Stockinged lads ran
through, around, and over “Monk’s” boys for
a 32 to 6 victory, thereby obtaining ample re-
venge for their licking at the hands of the
Davidsonians last fall. The win was well
deserved, for the Wildkittens appeared un-
able to find themselves and played a ragged
game throughout. On the other hand, P. C.
played heads-up football, took advantage of
every break, and held the Kittens at bay until
near the close of the game, when David buck-
ed over for two yards and a touchdown,
Davidson's only score. This marker came as
the result of a 50-yard march down the field,
aided materially by several good passes,

P. C. scored in the second quarter, after

six-yard line. The Kittens fought hard at
this point, and it required the full four downs
for. P. C. to push the pigskin over. Soon
afterwards, a passing attack was started by
the Blue Stockings, and another touchdown
was forthcoming. The half ended 12-0, Da-
vidson seemed unable to stem the tide in the
final session, and allowed their goal to be
crossed twice more. EPs

The Wildkittens were hurt by the loss of
Pope from the backfield. Captain Goody-
koontz played a steady game in spite of his
injured knee, while Foil at guard put up his
usual scrappy fight. Foil returned one of
the kick-offs for 18 yards, finally being forc-
ed outside. Blakely, tackle, and Bennet, end,
played great games for the winners, these
men being in nearly every play and breaking
up the Davidson interference to good ad-
vantage, :

NATIONAL RECORD

(Continued from page one)
It was pointed out by an authority on the

recovering Estridge’s fumbled put on his own |

shall be ready to make a determined stand subject that the prevalent tendency of high
for the third-place honors against the wily’ schools to give intelligence tests may have
aggregation from Durham. These two made some of the Freshmen “test-wise.” In
schools have only been playing football this case a person of average intelligerice hav-
against each other for the last five years, ing an idea of what to expect could make a
with Davidson taking the last three games by mark far above the average. It is possible
very decisive scores. The following are the that this could have influenced the results in|

‘OPPONENTS’ SCORES

N. Carolina --.18 Duke ~ -------- 0
W. Forest ----13 High Point -- 0
Gitadél: csccccds 0 Furman ------ 6
Blonizcvuestéeus 7 Emory Henry -13

Davidson Freshmen
End Gridiron Season

| Davidson Freshman football season ended
November 18th in a very unsuccessful man-
ner. In fact the whole season was not very
good. Out of five tries the Kittens won
only one of them. There is only one thing
that could: have been worse, and that is to
have lost all five of their games.

The Wildkittens began in a rather credit-
able way by holding the strong Oak Ridge
team to an 11 to 0 score. The Prep School
boys won, only after a hard scrap on a slip-
pery and rainy field.

Wofford Fresh were the only boys to fall
before the little Davidson team. The fought
it out on Richardson field for four quarters,
the Wildkittens emerging finally, a winner to
the tune of 12 to 0.

Nineteen to nothing spelled eleven fighting
Blue Devils to the Davidson Freshmen. It
was a flight all right, but the wrong end of
the score came to the boys in Red and Black.
Duke displayed a much better brand of ball
to take the game.

Fighting a close game with the State
Fresh in their own backyard, the Wildkittens
once again came out the loser. This was a
good game and well played, ‘at times, but
could have been much better from the stand-
point of both teams. The score ended 19 to
|12 in favor of State, after a last rally sewed
_the game up for the Raleigh boys.
| Defeated three out of four times, it looked
Ihike the Kittens gave up hope when they met
the. Presbyterian College of South Carolina.
, Knowing full well that even a win could not °
make the victory column amount to three,
they handed the game to P. C., 32 to6. That
was not exactly what might be called a
“grande finale,”

The Fresh as a whole this year looked
good, but could not,seem to get together. For
a while their plays were run off well, but an
off-day would come and all but one was lost.

It took the boys from Barium Springs to
| put the fight into the Freshmen. Fraley and
| Estridge deserve quite a bit of credit for
their scrappy attacks. David, McCall, and

' Goodykoontz did some flashy running with

| the ball, while Mason tossed the ball back

and held the center of the line.
The season’s complete result is as follows:

comparative scores since 1922:

Date Davidson Duke
22 0 12
'23 6 18
24 21 13
25 26 0...
'26 20 0

MOUNTAIN INSTITUTE

(Continued from page one)
Last year part of the sum received at the
campaign was given to the orphanage, the
other going to Warren Cox. The response
made in former years by the student body has
been very gratifying to the Y. M. C A.
officials, and it is their hope that this new
cause will be well. supported.

Since 1868
the Home of
Gond Shoes

We have quite
a selection of
Collegiate
Styles

That appeal to Da-
vidsonians and men
who have bought
them. And they are
at mighty reasonable
prices. Next time
you're in ¢ harlotte
ask to see them.

‘Charlotte, N.C.

Gilmer-Moore Co,

a minor degree.

Studies made at the University of ‘Chicago
show that a high score in the tests does not
| insure passage of all work. Those who made
a grade of B rather than the A grade con-
| Stituted the best group of students judged on
a basis of classroom work. It was thought
that A grade men were relying too much
‘upon. native brightness and did not do con-
‘sistent work. The D grade students rarely
attain academic honors, while those of C class
| only seldom attain scholastic positions. The
lrecords show that application does. much to
level the inequalities of intelligence. Not-
withstanding, the present class with its high
record should make a respectable showing in
scholastic and literary affairs at Davidson,
according to officials.

There are still those who say that we will
get no varsity material next year from this

er eeuen team, but it is. our opinion that

quite a bit of material will be discovered.
We mentioned the fact last week that the
reporter who wrote up the game between the
Wildkittens and the Blue Imps stated that
Goodykoontz, McCall, and Pope, put on one
of the best exhibitions of football ever shown
on the Duke field by freshman players.
Watch these men and several others next
year. They’ve got the “stuff,” and Coach
Monk can surely tell them how to use it, and
that’s all they need.

"When in Charlotte

oO eG,

headquarters

The Vogue

_ “THE SHOP FOR MEN”
ST TRADE STREET

Davidson Fresh__. 0 Oak Ridge -------11
Davidson. Fresh.._.12 Wofford ----_---_ 0
Davidson Fresh... 0 Duke -__---_-____ 19
Davidson Fresh_..12 State ~.-.-_-_____ 19
Davidson Fresh--. 6 P. C, ----_---__. 32
Totals, Davidson-.30 Opponents __-_-__ 81

THIRTEEN MEN REPORT

quarterback of the backfield that led the
Wildcats to the State Champiionship in 1926,

Four ends will not be back next year. Of
these only one, Hugh Arrowood, made his
letter as a member of the 1926 Champions.
The others are Dunc McEachern, Piggy
Wearn, and English McGeachy.

From the line six men will be lost. Jim
Grey, center, who has been out most of the
season with a broken arm, gdfnered in the
Citadel game; Fats Laws, guard; Lewis Mc-
Colgan, guard; Camper O’Neal, guard; Paul
Maulden, tackle; Pat Harmon, tackle. Of
these six men, only two played regular on
last year’s team. 3

The states that claim these men as their
native sons are five: North Carolina, Ala-
_bama, Georgia, Mississippi, and Virginia.
| North Carolina leads with nine men, each of
; the other states being represented by one

CHAIRMAN APPOINTEE

staged by Junior talent. Other attractions
will be planned in the meantime to fill out the
three-day program, which will take the place
of the Easter vacation program of former
years,

make our store your

