THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 24, 1927 3
ey ,
Bs
yp
H A VE A \ A.M .§..oL
sur!
a
wo™.
Sek SS
More Poultry Than Poetry the gray hours of dawn they returned
Said the rooster to the little brown | to the campus, their faces purple’ from
hen—"What became of that egg?” cold, and their tongues cussing a blue
Replied, the little brown hen to the| streak.
rooster—"I guess I mislaid it.” Math Again
it takes ¢ lar bear two days ae
Pat Had Sean cursed to the hisajiteal If it takes a polar bear two d uys to cat
i }a passage through the snow drift at his
for an operation. As he lay on the bed | frotittléor,- how done-willcitetakecanc ele
) yr, y long w ake ¢@ ~1e= |
he beckoned to the nurse and said weak- sh nt 7 7 ha sane land flea with |
t tatch a sz r le 2a WwW
ly, “Faith, and Oi’ll not be operated on I a See . i Sarees
, | boxing gloves on?
by that doctor. :
“Why, he’s one of the cleverest sur- Alexander—"I see you have lost one
geons living,” replied the nurse. of the hands off your watch.” -
“Maybe so, but he has an unlucky Goodykoontz—“Oh, no, I didn’t. Times’ ==) a
name. Oi heard him say his name was got so hard I just laid off one of® its =
Dochter Killpatrick.” hands.”
Miss Mary was of fine physique, Prize Optimist g
“
Iw art she was a good critique, Baldheaded et to barber— Have you [Upper classnien in smoke-shop, buying Camels]
Her nose was Grique, anything that will restore my hair?” |
Her temper unique, Barber—“Absolutely. This little bottle
And one of her eyes was oblique. | will have hair growing on your head r) e ° bd
within less than a week. And within a [ t : rst in O Uu anit
| | be ees Top in quality— y
Sandy had decided to turn over a new | Senin your relatives won't even know p :
leaf and he just had to tell everybody fect ae
about it “IT have resolved.” he said B. H. M—“I'll take a couple of bottles,
Whee teehee aenlag Haig » "and you can wrap me up a comb and EXPERIENCED smokers have proved it. never was a tobacco word so famous,
“But my dear. Sandy." protested his brush with’ it too.” Discriminating tobacco lovers by the or a cigarette so good. First in popu-
wife, “you couldn't drink any more. The Soiitne Fe ; a ; million rediscover it each day and every larity, because the best—that is the story
Reet ' ; Soldiers live shy wan : H i
point is, have you decided to drink any e ie a ae a Sg CEI evening as the friendly Camels are. of Camel, the biggest cigarette success
Pett satlors live on ships, ° ; i
ese | Workers live on what they earn, lighted. There simply is no better ciga- ever known. ° °
First Co-ed—“My f t f Watters live on tips, rette made. The. choicest Turkish and If you want such smoking enjoyment
irst Co-ed—“My fur coat came from ' j
an Alaskan seal.” Domestic tobaccos grown are bought for as you never hoped to find, just try
Sengrd itu “OAnd iiine cane trod < Oe live on borrowed time, Camels—and such blending for taste Camels. Smooth, fragrant and mellowy
Chicago Sucker.” pi ( AES live on ie and fragrance! Only the largest to- mild, from the first touch of the flame
ten there are my relatives— cael : i
| Phew Oiblide on ane bacco organization in the world could to the final puff, Camel will mean a
Flapper Fannie was arrested for leaving | : : » produce a cigarette like Camel. revelation to you of tobacco goodness.
off he tomorrow what she should have put | DAVIDSON BOARD OF In terms of popularity, Camel quality For pleasure unalloyed, for the best
on today, Q ° H My
’ | TRUSTEES has reflected itself in the greatest pref- that’s made regardless of price, “Have
. . . 33
The preacher arose to begin: service, | erence ever given a cigarette. There a Camel!
He looked about him and failed to sec! (Continued from page 1)
the choir, “I see that we have no choir, dancing by Davidson students . For R. .J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SALEM, N. C.
he today,” he said, “so the congregation | any years dancing by students, on the
will please arise and sing ‘Praise God , college property, or under the sponsor-
From Whom All Blessings Flow.” ship of student organizations has been!
| prohibited by the college, authorities.
They met on a bridge at midnight ; A second student petition, requesting
They'll never meet again— that 25 new tennis courts be constructed .
One was a westbound heifer, as soon as suitable arrangements can be 0193
The other an eastbound train. made, was acted upon favorably by the a -
— | Trustees, who declared that adequate
Book Review tennis court facilities would be provided
Miller (to librarian)—“Have you any as soon as funds were available. + )
more books by Author Unknown? He! Thc Doctor of Divinity Degree was |
|
wrote a story in our English and I liked conferred upon Rev. L. O, McCutchen, : ] I ( (
it.” missionary in Korea; Rev. C. E, Hodgin, Charlotte € y (G € 1€ € a m O e
Librarian—“No, but I have the latest) prominent Greensboro pastor; and Rey.
work of Anonymous. Wouldn’t you like R. S. Burwell, retired minister now living T { C m an |
to read that?” at Davidson. Dr. Thornton Whaling, rans er 0 P y GOOD
professor in Louisville Theological Sem-
An American tourist was wandering inary, Louisville, Ky., was given the. Doc- ie E ( R EA M
about a Scotch cemetery when he no-. tor of Literature Degree, while Prof. R. PHONE 298
ticed engraved on one of the tombs these! L. Flowers, treasurer of Duke Univer-
words: “Lord, she was thin.” He saw an| sity and a member of the Duke Founda- SE Statesville, N. ec.
old man at a-distance and walking up to| tion Board, was given the degree of Doc- BAGGAG a
him he asked the meaning of such an/tor of Laws.
epitaph. : | In addition to re-electing assistant and AND TAXI | nee
“Well, it was this way,” said the old SERVICE |

man, “McKinsah, the girl’s father en-
gaged a man to engrave the words, ‘Lord, |
she was thine’ on his daughter’s tomb.
He wanted a dollar per letter but old
Mack only offered him fourteen dollars
for the job. The engraver stopped at
the fourteenth letter collected his
pay.”

and

Fresh Godwin (on street car in Char-

lotte)—“Let me sit next to the window so
I can count the blocks.”

In former days a lady held up her
skirts while crossing the street, but now
she helds them down.

Society Column

‘Mr. Green and Mr. Brown got blue the
past week-end and went to call on their
girls, Miss White and Miss Black. They
decided to go see “The Red Mili.” Ali
were tickled pink. On their way back
Brown was green and failed to stop for
the red light to flash. They got pinched
which made Green red with anger. Brown
was yellow but Green asked Miss White

for a kiss and her face turned scarlet. In

associate professors, Prof. G, B. Watts
was clevated to a full-time professorship
in the French department. Dr. GR;

| Harding and Dr. W. R. Grey, who are

automatically retired under the annuity
plan, were elected by the board to serve
another year.

It was announced that, in addition to
the $100,000 recently given toward the
completion gf Chambers building, $82,000
more had been pledged. The board was
of the opinion that a contract should be
let for the two remaining sections sim-
ultaneously, but that if this was not prac-
ticable and feasible, they would favor let-
ting a contract for the central section at
the earliest date possible.

Dr. W. J. Martin suggested a nine-
year .program for Davidson before
its centennial celebration, which was re-
ferred to the Executive Committ®e for
consideration. The question of a new
constitution for the board was deferred
until the June meeting, to allow time for
further study of it.

It was decided to continue the policy of
giving A. B. and B. S. Degrees to stu-
dents, instead of changing and giving |
only one degree. |

JAKE MARTIN, Prop. '

\

COLLEGE JEWELRY

Watches and Clocks

Sheaffer Pens and Pencils :
Seal Stationery :

«

° ¢ | e

* et

Pennants and Pillows ‘

Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

CREDENZA, $300.00

The Finest Musical Insd:ument
in the World

Prices $95 to $1,000
All Models ‘in Stock---Easy Terms

NEW RECORDS

EVERY FRIDAY

ANDREW’S

MUSIC STORE

213 N. Tryon St. Charlotte, N.C.

The New
OR THOPAHONIC
a VICT-ROLA

