8

THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 15, 1927

=

Town Improved ‘by —
Pretty New Homes

Since college closed last spring two
beautiful homes have been added to those
already here.

Professor’ Fulcher has completed his | who is hoping for him to lead the team

returned and makes this department of the
'Red and Black machine look a great deal

hetter than the line at the beginning of the
season. These four men have been doing
work that looks very promising, being some-
what improved as a whole over the shape
they were in last year, Captain Dick Grey
is bearing the burden of many a faithful fan

Many Professors Spend
Vacation in Travel and

Study Here and Abroad

Members of Faculty Scattered from
Europe to the Pacific During

“Y” Column

In this first Y column of the year, the
entre organization of: the Davidson Y.
M. C. A. wishes to welcome every mem-
ber of the student body, whether old or
|new men, to give them a friendly greet-

New Tennis Courts
Under Construction

Fourteen new tennis courts are now
in the process of construction on the local
campus, just on the edge of the golf
links, these courts to be ready for us by

j : : | Spring. i iti ill double the
home on Woodland Avenue. It is a semi-| through the mill while he is showing good the Summer ing and once again tell them that in the |5Pring. This addition wi

; Mii j ———- . 4 | present number, which are entirely inade-
colonial wooden frame building contain-| form on the field while laboring to get ten | Y they can find a place that will make |!

; ; ; : Quite a number of Davidson profes- Apes : : .| quate for the Davidson student body at
ing eight rooms, with steam heat. A/ yards more distance out of the educated toe gous. apahe the Musee THOS: In travel their life at Davidson enjoyable and prof iheinbuceneatihas? tire taeee Haeeaiean
special study has been built for private | and to raise his sights considerably.

|itable, and at the ‘same time render in-|' ,
’ ‘ ; improved greatly during the past sum-
interviews with students.

or in study at other institutions of learn- |
The manse which is being built on the
same. property where the old one was,
has taken away from the students a very
familiar scene, but one far more beauti-
ful has replaced it. The home will be
completed by October tst. Dr. Moffett
and his family will move in as soon as
the manse is ready. This home also has
eight rooms with a commodious sleeping
porch. It is of the colonial type, made of
brick, and is steam equipped, A private
entrance has been specially built for stu-
dents who wish to see Dr. Moffett in his
study to talk over any affairs which may
come up. Dr. Moffett announced from
the pulpit on Sunday that he hoped the
steps would be worn smooth by students
coming to him for advice and help.
These two homes will add materially
to the attractiveness of the streets on
which they are located,

FOOTBALL PROSPECT: S ARE
BRIGHT

(Continued from page one)

A full backfield returned as a foundation to
be added to. Wilson, quarterback; Harri-
son and Grey, halves, and Nisbet, fullback,
make up the rear guard of letter men that

CAROLINA

THEATRE
Charlotte, N. C.

SPECIAL
MIDNIGHT
SHOW

This Sunday Nite, Sept. 18
at 1 minute past 12
BEBE DANIELS in

“Swim, Girl, Swim”

EXTRA!

Stage Attraction
BLUE STEELE

and his

11 Piece Jazz Orchestra

BOYS, THEY ARE HOT!

Ed Wilson, whose head and: steady arm

; | valuable service to their fellowman. The
tke | whole corps of workers have taken up

| won him fame last year, is studying the situ-

ation in a grave mood while he heaves the
pigskin at all angles and with accuracy, is
being counted on to be better this year. Har-
rison is showing the greatest improvement
from last year as he speeds around in the
early practices and promises to be evasive to |
the arms of ~the would-be tacklers. Mutt |
Nisbet, at the fullback position, is driving
well in the practices, and it seems as though
he will get off to a good season, Sam Black
is showing up well with a powerful drive, and
will be counted upon for his yardage in the
pinch, Kell, Matthews and Flynn are the |
other men who are the most promising in the
backfield.

In the line Jim Grey has been shifted to}
the center position, and his stubborn wor’ at
guard last season makes him a formidable
man at this position. DeArmon, from the
freshman team, is showing up fairly well as
a center. Laws and Melton, veterans, wi!l
probably hold down the guard positions, mak-
ing this one of the best parts of the Ine.
McConnell, Leftwich, Baker and Hampton,
all: new men, are fighting for the tac'les and
exhibiting no mean ability. Arrowood, a
Jetter man, will probably take care of one of
the ends, while Wearn and McEachern are
hopeful candidates for this position. Other
linemen who are making bids for berths are
McGeachy, end, Carson and Maulden, tackles,
Hunt and Smith, guards.

The prospects have brightened somewhat
since the practice began, and aside from the
regular pre-season injuries the men are
rounding into good shape and the opening
game will probably see one of the heaviest
Wildcat teams to take the field in the past
few years.

Scientists. declare that color-blind

woman is a great rarity.

—————

COLLEGE JEWELRY

Watches and Clocks

a

e

Sheaffer Pens‘and Pencils

Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler |

DAVIDSON, N. C.

Mooresville Ice Cream Company

Incorporated
MANUFACTURERS OF

“DE LUXE” ICE CREAM
BRICK AND FANCY CREAMS AND DeLUXE CUPS
Mooresville, N. C. |
CALL US FOR SPECIAL ORDERS |

MIDNIGH

SUNDAY NIGHT 12:01 O’CLOCK FEATURING
“The Big Parade”
; with

_ John Gilbert - Renee ‘Adoree = Karl Dane

gore

|

RIAL

wecks.

Among the former were Dr. G. R. their duties, and led by a very able Sec-
Watts, Dr. J. L. Douglass, and Prof. | retary and President, aided by one of the
E. J. Erwin, all of whom spent consider- | most: efficient Cabinets ever assembled,
able time abroad, both in travel and) the. Y stands ready to begin the most
study. Mrs..Erwin met Prof. Erwin W | prosperous year of service that it has

New York, where.they spent some time. | ever experienced in its history. Make the
Dr. and Mrs.*G, R. Vowles and son,

4 Y your friend, and you will be repaid
Richard, were visiting relatives in South many times for what you put into it.
Dakota for a considerable part of the

BLIGE, | RS
summer. The second Vesper service of the year

Prof, D. R. McGrew and family made} will be led by Dr. Albert Sidney Johnson,
an extended automobile trip through) pastor of the First Presbyterian Chrch,
Canada an dthe West. | of Charlotte, a very prominent man and

Prof. and Mrs. ‘A. Currie and two one who will bring a worth-while mes-
daughters, Misses Letitia and Lucy Mar-/| Sage. Plan now to hear this speaker—
tin recently returned from an automobile | and bring someone with you.
trip through the East where they spent
some time with relatives in Connecticut.| The Y has already made plans“for the!

Dr. and Mrs. J. M. McConnell and two| Fall Life Work Campaign this year and
sons, Joe and John D., spent the summer | secured the services of one of the most
at Camp Carolina at Brevard, N. C. Mr. ; prominent -leaders of the Church in the
J. R. Williams also spent some time there. | South in the person of Dr. Vander Meu-

Prof. and Mrs. H. C. Fulcher and fam- | len, President of Louisville Seminary.
ily arrived in Davidson this last week| Dr. Vander Meulen was here last year
from Virginia, where they spent. the | and the student hody will remember how
summer. able a speaker and preachér he is. More

Dr. M. E, Sentelle visited relatives and /@ter about these services.
friends in Tennessee. :

Prof, and Mrs. W. N. Mebane and little |
spending the_-P,us,hdB.etaoin shrid latt |

CT

pois | ben

Mussolina receives as salary about $400

daughter returned to Davidson after|@ month.
spending the summer with relatives in| So
Virginia.

D 1 Mrs. W Aart hal i | both boys from the car. Tucker’s com- |
r. anc s. W. J. r and daugh- | F ; ;

ao Hed Ji} se he seus: | panion was said to have suffered serious
ters, Misses Kitty and Gene, spent some

: {injuries to his back.
time at Montreat.

Dr. and Mrs. J. M. Douglas and chil- |
dren spent last week with relatives and
friends in Raeford, N. C.

Dr. and Mrs..H. B. Arbuckle and fam-
ily reached Davidson recently from their
summer home in Lewisburg, W. Va.

Prof; J .H. Davis, Jr., who spent the |
summer at Montreat arrived in David- |
son recently. He wilt remain —a~short
time before leaving for the University
of Chicago, where he will study this
winter.

Dr. and Mrs. W. R. Grey spent several
weeks in Asheville;with their daughter,
Mrs. B. W. Romefelt.

Among those attending educational in-

EAT AT THE

ASTORLUNCH

SERVICE

—+

THE BEST OF COOK-
ING

mer, having had new backstops erected
all around and the grounds graded and
rolled. These, however, will be torn up
and grass set out when the new courts
are ready for use, in another movement
to further beautify the campus and espe-
citally that section around Chambers
biulding. With the location of the new
courts adjoining the golf course, it will
mean that all sports will be confined en-
tirely to the rear of the campus where
adequate facilities have been and are now
being provided.

DAUGHERTY APPOINTS
(Continued from page 1)
Withers, S. M., cadet first lieutenant ; West-
brook, D. O., cadet fiirst leutenant; Geer, B.
H. O., cadet first sergeant. Cadet Sergeants,

Gibson, O. T., Phifer, W. E.

Company “A’—Bradford. W. B., cadet
captain; Calhoun, R. G., cadet first lieuten-
ant; Harmon, J. P. cadet first lieutenant;
Vance, S. W.) cadet second lieutenant;
Houck, G. F., cadet second lieutenant;
Archie, W. C., cadet first sergeant. Cadet
Sergeants, Btack, S. L., Cashion, H. D., Hill,
T. E., Smith, A. F., Bradley, J. E., Allison,
J. S., Crawford, G. W., Strong, W. M.

Company ‘“B’—Lake, J., cadet captain;
Gudger, J. M., cadet first lieutenant; Taylor,
C. W., cadet first lieutenant; Glenn, R. A.,
cadet second liutenant; Cathey, C. O., cadet
second lieutenant; Thompson, R. M., cadet
second lieutenant; Flinn, R. ©., cadet first
sergeant. Cadet Sergeants, Embry, J. T.,
Green, G. H., Littlejohn, F. M., Frye, J. C.,
Herriot, G. E., Flythe, W. H., Kirkland, L.
D., Knox, H. A., Gibson, B. F.

Company “C” (Best drilled company last
year_—O’Neal, M. C., cadet captain; Link,
R. S., cadet first lieutenant; Cathey, W. A.,
cadet first lieutenant; Hagood, G. B., cadet
second lieutenant; Brooks, G. S., cadet sec-
ond lieutenant; Miller, B. W., cadet second
lieutenant; McGill, S. W., cadet first ser-
geant. Cadet Sergeants, Gant, R. M., Pres-
ton, J. Z., Long, J. A., Long, W. M., Martin,
D. F., Maddox, K. P., McConnell, E. Riggs,
Patton, E., McBryde, J. P.

Company “D’’—Trabue, C. C., cadet cap-
tain; Lowrance, R. S., cadet first leutenant ;
Walton, P. W., cadet first lieutenant ; Smith,
A. M., cadet first lieutenant ; Thrower, P. P.,

stutions was Dr. C. K. Brown, who com- cadet second lieutenant; Wildman, J. H.,
pleted work on his Ph. D. degree at ° cadet second lieutenant; King, M. M., cadet
Columbia University, New York, this first sergeant. Cadet Sergeants, Regen, W.
summer, Charlotte, N.C. M., Wadsworth, L. C.,,Price, G. A., Rice,

Dr. Brown deserves distinction, since J. L., Sloop, R. F., Whitley, R. F., Wildman,
he is one of the youngest to receive this C. V., Thomas, R. H., Sample, J. M.
degree. He graduated at Davidson in| Se +
1921. ‘

Dr. J. W. McConnell attended the

Mayo Clinic in St. Paul, Minn, Mrs,
McConnell and son, Courtney, preceded
him by several days, coming home from
Maryland.

Prof. F. L. Blythe spent several weeks
studying Spanish at Middlebury College
in Middlebury, Vermont.

Dr, F. K. Fleagle and Mr. F. W. Henge-
veld took courses at the University of
Chicago. paneer’

Dr. and Mrs, E, T. Shewmake and chil-

THAD L. TATE

S. College St.

A cordial invitation is extended to all
Davidson men to visit us for prompt,
efficient and courteous work

BARBER SHOP

Charlotte, N.C.

dren have returned from Harrisonburg,
Va., where Dr. Shewmake taught in the
Harrisonburg Normal School for eleven

RUSSELL TUCKER INJURED
IN AUTOMOBILE CRASH

Russell Tucker, ex-’28, of Reidsville,
was painfully injured last Saturday night
when a roadster in which he was riding
with John H. Watt, former University
of North Carolina student, ran down a
10-foot embankment on the Thomasville
Road, and was wrecked against a barn
at the rear of a farmer’s dwelling. At-
tending surgeons -expressed an opinion
that Tucker’s injuries would not prove
serious, ]

' The two boys were returning to their
home at the time of the accident, and,

Lillian Gish in

ed by the headlights of another car as

Davidson Theatre

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
“Hula” with Clara Bow

WEDNESDAY
George Bancroft, Chester Conklin in “Tell it to Sweeney”

THURSDAY

: |
FRIDAY !
Hobart Bosworth in “The Bloodship”

SATURDAY
Tim McCoy in a Metropolitan Western

“Annie Laurie”

they attempted to round a curve on the
highway near the Guilford County line.
Their car left the road, ran down the
embankment, around a man’s house, and

according to their statements, were blind- |
|
\
|

“Ben Hur” will be here in

finally crashed into the barn, throwing

“The Big Parade” is coming: September 26th

October
