4 .

THE DAVIDSONIAN,

OCTOBER 28, 1927

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
. the Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articlés-for Publication must be in the hands of the |

r Editer by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceive

from an unknown source will not be published.

Sbbcksdicdivassdasgedbuineasa Editor-in-Chief
Business Manager

Ae Ny BROWN: o scsceibosnis hecacusancucecs Managing Editor
W._K. PRITCHETT .-- .---Managing Editor
J. Bi MORIARITY | 22.22 cc1 ts. ----Managing Editor
Cc. R. TM Mgkbaldcidesucdlcudctsssaunwcusin Athletic Editor
W. L. LINGLE .-. --Associate Editor
F. C. WITHERS --Associate Editor
Ma RUS ashes Associate Editor |
L. C. WADSWORTH --Alumni Editor
R. C DY -Exchange Editor
BUSINESS STAFF

R. S. ABERNETHY......_...._Assistant Business Manager

S. J. ALLISON... -Assistant Business Manager
Ww. M. WELL Assistant Business Manager

P. J. GARRISO Subscription Manager

B. W. DICKSO -Circulation Manager

S. W. MORRIS... -------------Solicitor

Ww. McGUIRE. ----Solicitor

du) 3 Bee) © (05 OF 0) HOT RR ORR pe Udep gene ape ey oe aig Solicitor

W._H. President
. L. ELY. Vice-President

r R. d Secretary-Treasurer
. P. ANDERSON R. W. McDERMI

W._H. BEST W._ B. McQUEEN

E. T. EDELMAN F. D. MILLER

E. S. HEEFNER V. A. MILTON

M. K. HENDERSON C. M. PRATT

R. F. JARRATT D. T. STOKES

F. W. JOHNSTON W. R. TREVERTON

Z. V. LONG W. R. WEAVER

J. P. McBRYDE B. A. WILSON

EDITORIAL

THE ONE BIG DAY

The one big day of the year—such is
Homecoming Day. To the alumni and to
the student body it means more possibly
than any other day of the year, A day of
renewing old acquaintances, a day of mem-
ories and reminiscenses, a day of welcome
to one’s old home. Such are the thoughts of
the alumnus. The student body wishes to
extend its heartiest welcome to all return-
ing graduates and to have them assured
that each Davidson man is glad to have him
back on the campus once more.

To the Gadetc, to the visitors, to the
families of our students alumni, and friends
we also extend a glad hand. The Davidson
student body is entirely at the service of all
visitors today and all will be glad to assist
any returning grads or friends in any way
possible.

Sut to the alumni do we particularly want
to extend our welcome. Any Davidson man
is a friend to any other Davidson man any-
where they may meet. And especially here
today, this will be strikingly presented. The
student body today is the same in general as
‘it was in the days of any alumnus. “The
cream of Southern manhood” is:still trying
to learn how to work integral calculus,
translate soph Greek, and pass enough work
to stay in school. The same spirit that has
manifested itself here for decades is still
present. All of us still believe that if the
Davidson team played a composite All-
American pick today that they would give
them a good fight. All men on the campus
are friends, and each speaks to the other as
they pass on the campus.
this is still “home” for the alumni and he
will be welcome just as much as he was
when he was a student here.

Students here have always looked for-
ward to Homecoming Day also. If one were
to be coarse and materialistic, one would say
that it was because the faculty grants the
students a holiday on that occasion. But
the students also feel that they have num-
erous friends returning on Homecoming
Day whether they know a graduate coming
here or not. That bond of fellowship which
has always existed between each Davidson
man is still in evidence, and all want to do
something for the students of former years
who have aided in building Davidson and
placing her on the plane where she rests to-

ay. '

There are numerous things planned for
the entertainment of the guests. Lunch-
eons, a football game, stunt night, will all
do their share. It is needless to say that
the football game will be the center of in-
terest, dnd it is with certainty that we prom-
ise the alumni that our representatives. on
the gridiron will give a good account of
themselves when they go out on the field.
Iti first time that Davidson has played
on Homecoming Day and possibly

he alumni have never seen.their

n action, _the benefit. of those

In other words,

{eo ie Ee AE EE Bag ae te AST Sib {Eades oe ARON Ps

TO THE VISITORS

To the Homecoming Alumni and Friends: | ..

Those of you returning to the campus on
the occasion of Homecoming Day give us,
who are constantly here, a real pleasure, and
your presence is most helpful in leading us.
to feel that you are still interested in the
College, its large family, and its work.

You are cordially welcome. We wish
you to feel that Davidson’s campus is a
friendly place. We assure you of our desire
to do all in our power for your comfort and
enjoyment while you are here.

That the team will do its best to the last
man to make you feel satisfied with your
visit goes without saying, but every one of
us is at your service to do all we can for
your pleasure.

Just get the “Homecoming” habit if you
wish to please us. You are heartily welcome.

Sincerely yours,

WM. J. MARTIN,

President.

few, let it be said that the Flying Squadron
always develops excellent teams and will
furnish tough opposition to the Wildcats.
jut whether Davidson wins or loses, she
will always be fighting. That truism is
proven in every athletic encounter in which
Davidson engages, and it is certain that it
will not be repudiated on Saturday,

The alumni should also remember that
which the student body is fully, aware of.
That the team functions in proportion to the
spirit manifested by its supporters. So get
out there and yell for ’em. Yell with the
student body and sing “O, Davidson” as
lustily as possible. It would be quite pleas-
ing if the Davidson team could’ be as suc-
cessful this Homecoming Day as it was last
year at this time. But-win-ortose;the team
will have done its best and to be thorough-
ly satisfied you must be certain that you
have done your best in supporting them.

We are sincerely sorry that every alum-
nus was unable to return on this occasion.
To those who were unable to be here, we
wish to let them know that we are thinking
of them laso and that we trust that they
will be able to be with us next year. Just
listen to anyone tell about it after it’s all
over and we are certain that you will be
unable to stay away another year.

MONK AND TEX

To these illustrious “pessimists” of foot-
ball, all Davidson should again pay tribute-
today. The men who have produced a state
championship team one year, lost practically
the entire squad, and then developed
a strong contender for the crowh the fol-
lowing year out of rawamaterial. They are
proud of Davidson and the mer it’ produces
and they have helped spread the fame of
this institution through the entire country.

The few who have seen them out working
with new material, developing real football
mén, striving day after day to make a bet-
ter team—these men really appreciate what
Monk and Tex are doing for Davidson.
Those who have not seen them should real-
ize the great task that confronted these
coaches at the first of this year and marvel
at ‘the results they have accomplished.’ The
student body recognizes the value of these
men to Davidson and are certain that too
much praise and tribute cannot be poured
tftpon them,

DOES THE COLLEGE “LIT.”
FUNCTION?

The college literary magazine is rapidly dis-
appearing, according to Mr. Hopwood of the
Cleveland Plain Dealer. A similar view is found
‘in the Yale Daily, where an editor writes, “We
are in danger of losing the force for literary pro-
duction by the undergraduate, if we have not al-
ready lost it.”

*But there are numerous indications that the un-
dergraduate “Lit.” is not yet in the least dead.
In fact, a recent reviewer of the Harvard! Ad-
vocate finds that even from the point of view of
the suspicious “average reader” the stories are
good, the articles worthy of professional mag-
azines, and the poetry creditable.

The general attempt among the student-editors
of these publications is to keep the standards of
worth and originality high. And this is well, be-
cause it is probably true that there are those out-
siders who judge a college by its “Lit.” as others
judge it by its football team. Another reviewer!
believes college publications interpret the under-
graduate mind and touch college life at more
points than any other agency.

The college news and the college huthor mag-
azines have their functions and their reward, but
the function of the “Lit.” is a harder one and the
reward possibly a-greater. It aims to furnish a

workshop where students may learn “the art of .|

au Bb yat 6
i é oe

WELCOME, ALL !

In behalf of the coaching staff of Davidson, I
want to extend you a cordial welcome to the cam-
pus today, and to publicly express to you my ap-
preciation and the appreciation of my colleagues
for the loyal support and the great interest that

_you have shown from time to time in the depart-
ment which comes ‘under my direction.

We always try to develop winning athletic teams
for Davidson, for we realize that alumni want
elevens, nines, fives, or other athletic outfits that
successfully carry the Davidson banner. Although
this is important, we are conscious that there is
something of far greater importance—the develop-
ing of men who know how to play the game clean,
always showing the most gentlemanly type of
sportsmanship.

This afternoon you will have opportunity to see
the football team in action. No matter what the
outcome, we hope that when you leave Davidson
this afternoon, you*will leave here with the reali-
zation that our boys have played a good game,

and have done their best. Alumni have already
influenced many good men in coming to Davidson,
and we hope that your interest will always be just
as keen—in fact, more so than in the past.

Once more I want to say, “Welcome’ to David-
son,” and to urge you to return here as often as
possible. We are glad to have you here today,
and hope that our part in your entertainment will
be successful and interesting to you.

W. L. YOUNGER, Coach.

Although your alumni officers may travel to the
north and to the south; to the east and to the
west, meeting Davidson alumni in local associa-
tion meetings, in the intimacy of their own homes,
or at football games, there is no more genuine
gladness than that which is caused by your, re-
turn to Davidson today. We are happy to greet
you in every nook and corner of the campus, to
shake: your hand—some of them for the first time
since alumni work had its inception and others for
more than that—and to welcome you back to the
old college.

For many of you there is a tigge of sadness—
sadness over the absence of associates and over
the absence of many familiar buildings which
were dear to you during the days that you spent
at Davidson. Although we realize that this may
be prevalent to a degree, we hope that it will be
offset by the rejoicing in your heart over the
progress that has been made at Davidson in recent
years—a progress which well deserves the term,
phenomenal. :

You are’here as guests of the college, as guests
of the students'and faculty, and as guest§ of the
alumni department. The latter is at your par-
ticular service, and is anxious to aid in any capa-
city that will lend to your entertainment. If you
go away without having a good time, we will feel
that we have failed in our responsibility, and for
this reason, sincerely hope that you will let us do
our part toward your comfort and joy today.

ERNEST MILTON,
Alumni Secretary.

Ollapodrida

United States hens lay 760 eggs per second,
24 billion per annum, Most hens lay two eggs
every three days. One hen in Kansas has layed
165 eggs in 165 days. On the 166th day her cus-
tomary egg was placed*in a jeweled box and sent
to President Coolidge. Every farmer seeks such
a champion layer, yet if all hens were as pro-
ductive the farmer would not benefit. A falling
price would soon stabilize the market. The laws
of economics are as invariable’ as those of the
universe,

Six months ago certain miners in Pennsylvania
entered upon a strike for higher wages. At once
the company ordered them from, their homes,
company owned and upon company property.
Miners retaliated by paying the rent and refusing
to move or be moved. The company went before
Judge Schoonmaker of the Suerior Court and
saught an injunction upon the grounds that the
miners were interfering with interstate commerce,
Non-union miners could not occupy the houses,
hence the company could not carry on its inter-
state trade. Foolishly Judge Cchoonmaker grant-
ed the injunction
Whether the miners can be driven from their
homes remains to be seen, In spite of the injunc-
tion they are remaining, offering resistance to
ejection. According to our present laws the em-
ployer holds his workers position absolutely in his
hands. But to drive a man from his home be-
cause he refuses to work is the height of injustice
and is tainted with an attitude of “sour grapes.”

In a recent issue of Time, condensed newspaper
periodical, Duke University is referred to as
“tobacco stained Trinity.” It is but an echo of
the adverse editorial comment that swept the
country when that university according to popular,
belief “sold its name for a sum of money.” Other
college authorities have found it easy to criticize
Trinity’s action but few have’ been confronted
with so tempting an offer.- One is inclined to be-
lieve that even Davidson, with its more ancient
background and traditions would have been sorély
tempted. If the public wishes to find fault with
Duke, why not call them to task instead for in-
vesting in the marble pillars of their buildings

Stock market bears at last penetrated the de-
fense of their bullish opponents last week and
prices went tumbling in a decided degree for the
first time in a year or more. Practically every
leading industrial issue experienced a rapid decline
while General Motors, whose stock has been di-

saying something in a readable way, discover
methods of story writing, and the subtleties of
Poetry.” It is a chance to develop ability for lit-
erary work after college,” As the Yale Daily re-
marks in an editorial entitled “A Nursery,” the
college must supply our future authors as it has
our best ones in the past. It must not neglect this
duty, and the “Lit.” publication can definitely fur-
ther this by being a concrete object for literary
productions of a high order, and by creating a
live interest in literature.

We are not seriously concerned that there is
a dearth of undergraduate poets who can write

ie flippant mask covers genuine feeling, or that

upon such indirect grounds. °

a sum sufficient for the erection of a small college.

other\than too-free verse, or that in essay writing-

_the stories seem to be merely old-fashioned thethes
seasoned with modern technique. These are mere

vided recently, dropped off ten points and in sfill
on the slide. The cause. Business is not as good
as it was last spring although the last four
months of the year usually bring the peak in sales
and production. Motor car sales have fallen off
decidedly and investors are trying to unload at
peak prices. Forthcoming quarterly dividends
will check the fall in a week. a

The new Ford finally made its appearance in
Detroit last week when the inventor drove the
most recent production from his Dearborn plant
to his museum. There is was placed beside the
first and fifteenth million Fords. 375,000 cash or-
ders have already been received for the new car
which will guarantee several months full time pro-
duction. .Two-thirds of the plant will be used for
the new car and one third for the manufacture of
parts for the old model “T”. Throughout the
country the car buying populace awaits its arrival
with anticipation and also the arrival of keen
competition with General Motors. Both concerns
adhere that there will be no price cutting war. Be
that as it may the financial interests of General
Motors will suffer, their stock will decline and
dividends will be smaller. General Motors can

“afford the loss, however. Ford’s success is hardly

greater than this great concern’s. If an investor
had placed $10,000 dollars in this company’s stock
when it Was organized in 1908, and had taken
every opportunity to buy divided stock, he would
have made a total investment of $99,000 dollars,
his stock would now be worth a little over $1,-»
000,000 and he would have received cash dividends
amonting to $100,000. And then Ford’s new car
may not be successful. W.L. L.

Several class rooms at Emory University are
now provided with rocking chairs. We wonder
when they will start furnishing beds and lounges
in order that a student may thoroughly enjoy him-
self?

An “Executive Board” of students has been re-
cently formed at Southwestern University. The
function of this board is to study student body
problems and suggest solutions.

President Max. Mason advocates a college where
there are no examinations. Is he running for
president and putting out propaganda to obtain
the collegiate vote?

Dr. W. M. Lewis was formally inaugurated as
the tenth president of Lafayette College last
Thursday, October 20,

This younger generation is getting too much
liberty. ‘Stoo bad we can’t be as strict as we were
in the good old days. To top it all, the College
Council of Agnes Scott has decided that specials
may be delivered twice a day on Sunday instead of
merely once as heretofore. J

mSSSSSSaBQ& SS cc_c_cc8__—_—_——
stages through which the writer who continues to -
write will pass safely. But we are concerned that,
as the Advocate reviewer puts it, the spirit of the
literary magazines is one of “gentlemanly young-
sters interested in letters, learning to write more
than passably well.” In such a spirit we believe it
is possible for the college “Lit.” to fulfill its func-
tion.—P, A. D. - es :

3x5 spate eee 6
