¢

TieDA VI SONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XV.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 6, 1927

No. 4

Davidson Trounces Florida in Decisive Battle

“Many Institutions Use Textbooks Edited
Recently | by Two Davidson Professors

Dr. Shewmake’s Englsh Textbook is
Now Being Used at Davidson

NATIONALLY RECOGNIZED

Revised Edition of Dr. Vowel’s
Scandinavian Text Published

Davidson professors have not been inactive
in the past few years in regard to the edit-
ing and writing of textbooks. Various col-
leges and universities throughout the country
are now using, as accepted texts, certain of
those written by members of the Davidson
faculty.

Of recent interest we have texts by Dr. E.
F. Shewmake, professor of English, and by,
Dr. Guy R. Vowles, professor of German
language and literature.

Dr. Shewmake, in collaboration with Dr.
C, L. Carmer, of the University of Alabama,
has just had published a textbook on English
composition, titled “College English Com-
position.” It is a handbook of writing and
speech, and primarily for use in Freshman
English courses. :

The authors, realizing the need for a first
year book in English°that should be clear,
direct and simple, have written such a book,
and one that will give first year college men
confidence to go on with their work and the
desire to master spoken and written English.

The aim of “College English Composition”
is to put before the stadent in clear, concise,
practical form what he needs to know con-
cerning. the chief units of composition; the
general forms of social and business com-
munications; the effective oral use of Eng-
lish; the technique of verse; the mechanics
of writing; certain troublesome points in
grammar; and good usage in detail; with
particular reference to the avoidence of com-
mon errors of speech and writing. The stu-
dent is challenged to think for himself and
to take pride in correct and forceful expres-

(Continued on page 8)

“Y” Plans To Bring
Reputed Sprinter
To Davidson Soon

Davidson is soon to have the rare privilege
of hearing a world famous athlete: Charles
William Paddock.

Paddock is to be on the campus one day
during the last week in October, the exact
date having not yet been definitely settled.
It is possible that he will arrive in time to
give a special exhibition of his speed on the
track, before his lecture in Shearer Hall.
His lecture subjects are: “The Spirit of
Sportsmanship ;” “The Man on the Mark;”
“The World At Play,” and “Play the Game.”

Since 1920 Charlie Paddock has esteablish-
ed world sprint records 17 different times, his
last victory being in July, 1927. He has been
a world champion in one of the most stren-
uous of all sport branches .for seven years.
This in itself is an amazing record and is due
mainly to two things: clean living and hon-
orable sportsmanship.

Paddock used to spend his summers as a
cowboy on a western ranch; he saw over-seas
service during the war; he has taken part
in several feature pictures on the Hollywood
movie lots; he has had considerable experi-
ence ‘in dramatic work, and for ‘the past sev-

eral years has been a regular contributor to

a string of leading newspapers and maga-
zines. He made a tour of the world in 1924
(Continued on page 6)

Dr. Martin Attends
Log College Fete

Dr. William J. Martin left here Saturday

to attend the 200th anniversary celebration of
the founding of Log College, near Philadel-
phia.. Dr. Martin was one of the principal
speakers at the anniversary dinner, and spoke
on the subject, “The Common Aims of the
Christian Colleges.”

Log College was founded near Philadel-
phia in 1727 by Rev. William Tefinant, a
Presbyterian minister who had just immi-
grated to America from Ireland. The col-
lege, which was first established in a small
log cabin, was the pioncer institution in the
Christian education movement in America,
and was the forerunner of Princeton Uni-
versity and the Princeton Theological Semi-
nary.

The 200th anniversary celebration lasted
for three days, and was attended by leading
Presbyterian educators from all parts-of-the
country.

Beforeteaving Dr. Martin gave in chapel
a brief resume of the history of Log College.
He, as the president of Davidson College,
had been asked to attend and to take part in
the exercises. This was due to the fact that
when Log College was founded there was
only one branch of .the Presbyterian Church
in America. Therefore Davidson, as a Pres-
byterian school, was entitled to help celebrate

(Continued on page 2)

0.D.K. Will Sponsor Tap
Day as Neophytes Are
Chose Next Wednesday

Program Marks Tenth Anniversary
of Delta Circle

FALL BID DAY

Campus Leaders From Two Upper
Classes Are to be Tendered Bids

I

The dignified and impressive Tap Day pro-
gram of the Delta Cirele of Omicron Delta

Kappa, national honorary leadership fratern-

ity, will he solemnized 6n Wednesday morn-
12th, the of the
entire student body. It has been the custom

jing, October in presence

‘of the local chapter for the past few years to
| hold two‘bid days each session of college, one
in the fall and the other in the spring. At
this time members of the Junior and Senior
'classes who have distinguished themselves
las leaders in some phase of college activities
are invited to membership in O. D. K. . The
‘president of the local organizations custo-
marily presides over the exercises. A faculty
“member of 0. D. K. wiil probably make a
short speech preceding the bidding. The bid-
ding itself is performed in a very ceremon-
ious manner. Some member of the organi-

zation comes from the stage and with a tap |

° ° . |
upon the shoulder invites the newly bid mem-
ber to follow him to the stage, where he is’

welcomed by the officers.

Tap Day has grown to be atime of great
The
ceremony used by this circle is not common

(Continued on page 7)

interest and importance at the college.

Students’ Photos
Taken for Annual

Work on the 1928 Quips and Cranks has
begun in earnest. Mr. Walter G. Neblett,
the photographer for White's Studios, arriv-
ed at Davidson several days ago, and immedi-
ately began his work. This week, most of
the individual pictures of the student body
will be taken, and during the last part of his
stay, Mr. Neblett will take the pictures of
the football team, the literary societies and
various other groups.

The individual pictures will be taken at the
same place they were taken last year, the
Ku Hall. Blanks were distributed in chapel
recently, and the asked to
check the periods they had vacant. Cards
have been sent out with the date and the time
which each student is asked to be at Ku Hall,
and it is hoped by the Annual staff that the
student body will co-operate with Mr. Neblett
are

students were

by being on time when their sittings
scheduled. Anyone who has not filled out a
schedule may obtain a schedule by turning in

204 Watts, or Witt Hancock, in 32 Georgia.

students the Annual is carrying out the policy
of the last year Year Book,

| Last year was the first year that the two
lower had their individual
graphs in the Quips and Cranks. The addi-
tion of these to the upper classes just double
| (Continued on page 2)

classes photo-

Combined Demonstration and Address Given by
~ Two Speakers at Y. M. C. A. Vesper Service

New Students Examined
by Psychological Tests

Idea of Tests at Davidson
Originated by Dr. Lingle

The college carried out its usual custom of
giving the incoming Freshman class a psy-
chological test last Friday afternoon. The
results of the tests given have not yet been
obtained, due to the extreme amount of work
in grading the tests.

The idea of psychological tests at Davidson
College originated at a meeting of the State
Teachers’ Association of North Carolina,
held in Asheville in November of 1919. Dr.
T. W. Lingle, on the program of the higher
education section gave a talk on college en-
trance requirements. Preparation of this
talk led to the study of psychological experi-
ments conducted by Thorndike at Columbia
University; Calvin, at Brown University,
and several others. At, this meeting Dr.

That the game of golf and the game of life
have the same prerequisites to success was

the theme of Dr. L. W. Jarman and Dr.
Hamilton McCoy, at “Y” vespers Sunday
! evening.

Immediately preceding théir combined
demonstration and address was a song service
conducted by P. J. Garrison and Scripture
reading by C. C. Trabue.

Dr. Jarman was fittingly introduced by
Prof. K. J. Foreman. The former in turn
introduced Dr. McCoy as the first speaker
of the evening.

Dr. McCoy demonstrated the manner of
making a correct golf stroke, emphasizing
three essentials in any golfer’s success. To
hit the ball squarely one must have perfect
co-ordination, absolute concentration on the
task at hand, and naturalness, and the im-
portance of the backswing was his conclud-
ing statement of explanation. ;

Dr. Jarman, using Dr. McCoy's outline,
related the game of golf to the game of life.
The cc-ordinated team, institution, or indi-

Lingle announced that upon his return to Da- vidual is the one that wins. .The world today
vidson he would introduce a motion at the, 8 calling for men developed in a proper
following faculty meeting. calling for psycho- | Measure physically, mentally, spiritually, and
logical tests to be given to all new students | Socially.. A one-sided development will result

within 30 days after entering school. The
motion to this effect was readily passed by

the faculty and the tests were started the |

following year, 1920. Dr. Frazer Hood was
made chairman of the committee to conduct
the tests. We may be proud of the fact that

Davidson was the pioneer in this movement |

among all Southern schools and colleges.
The next college after Davidson to adopt
these tests. was Agnes Scott. Two years
later the University of Virginia experiment-
, (Continued on page 6)

|in defects which will certainly show up in
| times of testing.

In the second concentration on life’s task
is quite as essential as concentration on hit-
ting the ball. Choose your field of endeavor
and then stick to it—follow it through, Do-
ing the job the best it-can be done and keep-
ing on doing it was Woodrow Wilson’s rule
of life.

The old but very sound principle of, going
the second mile applies in business as well as

“(Eontinued on page 6)

Authority on India to
_ Give Lecture Here Soon

'Mr. Joachim Comes at Request of
Faculty Committee

On Wednesday evening, October 12th, Da-
vidson men will have the pricilege of hear-
ing Mr. M. H. H. Joachim, the foremost liv-
ing authority on India, its religions, liter-
ature, and philosophy.
| here at the request of the faculty committee
jon Public Lectures, and in. securing Mr.
Joachim, the committee feels that it is bring?
ing a man who will have a message of in-
tense interest to those who hear him.

Mr. Joachim is a native of Calcutta and a
| graduate of the famous University of Cal-
 cutta.
‘ive thinker, and a writer of exceptional bril-
liance. During his lectures in this country
this season, he has won for himself an en-
viable reputation as a man of great personal
charm and is regarded as an accomplished
public speaker.

Mr. Joachim is a real student, of conditions
in India and can present in a very entertain-
ing way the story of his country’s. relations
with Great Britain, the rise of the nation-
alist movement, the advent of Ghandi, and
the economic situation. His works on the

various Hindu philosophies, are accepted all
over the world as the leading authorities on
these subjects.

Kipling’s ‘East is East and West is West,
and never the twain shall meet,” is refuted by
the life of Mr. Joachim. He combines the
| (Continued on page 6)

a blank as described above to Bob Platt, in|

In taking the individual pictures of all the |

Mr. Joachim’ comes |

He is a profound scholar, a construct- |

caste system, the women of India, and the |

Flinn and Grey Get First Touchdown
of Season to Defeat Floridians, 12-4

Visitors Outplay Heavier Team
During Entire Game

8,000 See Game

Whole Southland as Well as ’Gaters
Surprised at Onslaught of
Wildcats

The proverbial dope bucket suffered what
was probably one of the most humiliating
days of its contrary existence when the Da-
vidson College Wildcats romped away with
a 12-0 victory over the University of Florida
Gators at Gainesville, Saturday afternoon,
Practically all of the many interested fans
had predicted a drubbing for the Wildcats,
who were too fast in their tearing, clawing,
ripping tactics for the heavy. Florida team,
| which wilted away when the Davidson team
| opened up their drive in the second quarter,
| This was one of the games added to the
| Davidson schedule in their process of widen-
ling their field of play, and down in the Sun-
| shine State they are talked about as a team
that came from somewhere up in North
Carolina, and a thin red line that seemed to

be built of steel, so hard was it to break.
| Florida opened the game with a tush, and
{the Davidson team immediately astumed a
| defensive attitude as the 'Gators went for
;nice gains through the line, which finally
| forced them to kick. The Wildcats could
| do nothing with the line of Florida, and did
| very little gaining, and woke up to find the
| ball on their own five-yard line as the first
quarter ended. As the second period opened,
the distance was lessened by two yards, and
| things had a very gloomy outlook for the
| supporters of the Wildeats, but the ’Gators
passed over the goal line on the last down
}and the ball was Davidson's on her own 20-

| yard marker,

At this crucial period Harrison broke
| through for a 17-yard gain which acted as a
| (Continued on page 8)

Seniors to Adopt
_ Duo-Color Blazer
as Class Insignia

| Red and black blazers will be worn by

this year’s Senior class. So it was decided

|at a recent meeting of the Senior class, by a
very large majority. “They will have the col-
lege colors and will be inertial iach and
three-quarter stripes. A committeé was ap-
pointed to send out bids for prices, and as
| they have not all been considered yet, the
exact cost of the blazérs is not yet known.
For the past several years it has been the
| custom for the Senior classes to have some
| form of distinctive garb, not only that they
| may be recognized and differentiated from
l'the rest of the student body in at least one
particular, but that they might have some
| more tangible reminder of college and campus
llife. It has never been sought to enforce
leach Senior’s buying or procuring whatever
the article may be; as a rule, however, most
lof the students have been glad to comply
| with the fashion as decided upon bya major-
ity vote of the class, ;
Derbys and canes were affected by the last
year’s. class, that of '27. The Senior class _
before them had blazers as the’ present Senior
[class has decided upon. The difference be-
tween the two classes’ blazers is that those of
’26 were blue and gold colored ones, while
those of this year are, as has already been
| stated, red and black, the Wildcat colors, 5;

