THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 31, 1927

Debating Team Off On Northern Trip
to Engage Foes of Four Universities

Converse Players
Give Performance

Presenting a play, entitled “You and I,”
under the auspices of the Junior class, the
Converse Comediennes furnished real
tertainment for, a Davidson audience last
Tuesday night. *

The entire cast carried out their parts
with exceptional ability and with a zest that
brought a tinge of reality into the plot.
Miss Wannamaker with her sympathetic tone
of voice and true acting was the star of the
performance and coupled with Miss Mathews
the difference with them and real lovers was
not easily discernable.

Misses Cochran and Doss, in the role of
husband and wife—Mr. and Mrs. White--
pictured the trials that come to an ambitious
artist and his family.

cn-

With the scene laid in the library of the
White’s country home in Mount Kisco, West-
chester County, New York, in late Septem-
ber, White’s desires to hecome an artist and
leave his business altogether became aroused
to such a degree that his retirement from
the firm was forthcoming, and Etta (Miss
Fairy) who was the maid, was requested to
stay in their service as a model for the great |
portrait.

The painting was completed and there was
an imperative demand for money in order
that Ricky might go abroad and study, as
Ronny determined that they should not get
married until her beloved was given his
education. Plans for disposing of the por-
trait were made and met with success; Ricky
and Ronny could be married, and they with
Maity would go abroad as G. T. Warren, a
friend of the family in the person of Miss
Harvey, paid four thousand dollars for the
work of art to use for advertising purposes.
Etta and Geffrey Nichols (Miss Black) de-
veloped a warm friendship and found that
they could get along in a most amicable man-
ner together.

This dramatic performance, under the ex-
pert direction of Mrs. Helene Powers, was
the best presented here in quite a long while,
and it is a deplorable fact that Such an ex-
cellent organization as this was not greeted
by a much larger audience. The entire pro-
gram was faultless and each individual of
the cast carried out their part in a most de-

Thursday afternoon, March 31, the Da-
vidson Varsity Debating Team, composed
of L. D. Wharton and W. H. Branch, will
leave for an extended trip through several
states, returning to the college on Saturday,
April 9.

On April 1st the team will the
William and Mary team at Williamsburg,
Va. From here they will go to Gettysburg,
Penn., where they will oppose the team of
the University of Gettysburg on the fourth.
Their next’ stop will be Bethlehem College,
Bethlehem,. Penn., on the fifth. The last
school which the team will debate will be
Rutgers University, at New Brunswick,
April 7.

The query for the debate is: Resolved that
the United States should cancel the inter-
allied war debts. Davidson's team will up-
hold both sides of the question; the nega-
tive against William and Mary, and the af-
firmative against the other three schools.

While in Washington, the team will seek
a conference with President Calvin Cool-
idge and Honorable Andrew W. Mellon,
Secretary of Treasury on this qquestion of
vital importance.

debate

Thus, far, Davidson’s debating team has

had a very successful season, winning from
V. P. I. at Blacksburg, Virginia three to
nothing; from George Washington Univer-
sity, at Davidson, three to nothing ; and from
John Hopkins University, at Charlotte, two
to one. ’
Branch and Wharton are both prominent
men on the campus, outstanding in debating,
and are also well to the forefront in the
literary field’ Both are members of Delta
Pi Kappa, honorary journalistic fraternity;
Wharton is editor of the annual and Branch
the editor of The Davidsonian.

An Indian prince has his private train
equipped with a huge tobacco pipe, mount-
ed in the locomotive, from which smoke is
piped to each compartment for passenger's
use,

The cast follows:

Veronica Duane-_------ Lyall Wannamaker
Roderick White----.------ Clelia Mathewes
Naiicy Whitesce220 22 olecgel eee Leasel Doss

Maitland White Frances Cochran

lightful manner,

Mitta sen ee iol. Lee ees Julie Fairy
GUAR Warténis esos eones es Louise Harvey
Goeffrey Nichols_.-.-------_- Louise Black

Delivered same day

D

Lance Quality Products

LANCE PACKING COMPANY

CHARLOTTE, N. C._

made. All dealers

UNION THEOLOGICAL
SEMINARY

Richmond, Va.

Introducing to the readers of the

Davidsonian

ANGUS WILTON McLEAN

’ Governor of North Carolina

Governor McLean is an active
member of the Board of Trustees of
Union} Theological Seminary and is
under appointment to make the ad-
dress to the graduating class at the
approaching commencement.

CAROLINA

5 - Acts Keith

CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Every THURSDAY - FRIDAY - SATURDAY

And a Feature Picture

THEATRE

Vaudeville - 5

COMING MONDAY

Lon Chaney in “Mr. Wu”

“ With Renee Adoree, Ralph Forbes, Gertrude Olmstead, Louise Dresser
ALSO TWO BIG KEITH ACTS

| LETTER FROM COX GIVES
| VIVID PICTURE OF CHINA

(Continued from page 5)

| Tales that are told by the students coming
| back from their homes, after the passage of
the Northerners, are quite illuminating. One
chap in my Qualitative Chemistry escaped
| three times when the«soldiers came, and
| refugeed in the country.
| they came to loot his place, he had two dol-
lars on his person, which he gave to them.
They were incensed at the size of the do-
nation, and one of them hit him a terrific
| whack across the shoulders with the butt
of his gun, and knocked him, unconscious.
| When he awoke he found about 40 of them
| systematically looting his house—for it was
| the largest. in his town. They destroyed
| what they could not take away: tables were
smashed, or their legs cut off; chairs knock-
led to pieces; bedding ripped open and the
| cotton used for fires; clothing torn to shreds,
| and the whole place made a pig-sty. His big-
| gest loss was a collection of very valuable
| Chinese books, that his ancestors for gen-
| Some were writ-
'ten on sheepskin, and were the only copies
extant, of those particular works. A Jap-

erations had been saving.

‘}anese book collector he says, had offered a

| half million dollars for the collection, but his
The soldiers took

| family would not. sell.
| them every one and used them to make fires.
|The sheepskin manuscripts they could not
!understand, and when he told them that it
| was only a book and useless, hoping to save
/it, they said, ‘Well, if it is useless, let's
| burn it,’ and they burnt the whole lot.
| Stayed in his house for two days and made
'a good job of it.

| Other tales are as appalling: the killing of
every man, woman and child in a_ village,
because of a deed by one of the conscripted
coolies; the violation of every woman they
could lay hands on; conscription of fathers
| and sons to carry loads, and the treatment of
/them as beasts—shooting them when they
| were too tired to go further. Of course,
| eoihe of them are exaggerated, but many
lave absolutely true. Is it any wonder that
they turned on their oppressors when the
Southern troops began to come, and killed
them with a merciless ferocity?

|

Now that the Southern troops are here
the stores are open, and the people are free
to go and come as they please, unmolested.
You can see the relief on the ‘faces of the
people: as one man expressed it, “Our South-
ern troops have come!” a simple statement,
but it was with reahk feeling. One
minded of how the people of Lucknow must
have felt when the city was finally rescued
after a terrific siege. We have heard so
much of the attitude of the Canton govern-
ment towards foreigners, and towards Chris-
tian schools and missions that we were rather
fearful of the results on our work. We find,
however, that the attitude, at the present, of
the leaders of the Kuomingtang, as the po-
| litical party is called, is very friendly, and
they have ordered that posters be put up
bearing the legend, “Protect foreign life and
property.” In other places where the Kuo-
| mingtang has had control there has been
} great suffering on the part of the mission-
laries and foreign business men because the
| Left wing of the party was in control: here

is re-

the Right wing has control, and we plan to
Many of our people are
in Shanghai (ordered out by the consul) ; in
fact, all of and children
| there. We fear more for them under Shane-
hai protection now than if they were here,
for the Southerners advancing
Shanghai and be
| fighting there.

carry on as usual,

the women are

are
will

on

there considerable

Such is the “news”: it is history now. We
hope that the coming of the Southern regime
will continue to mean prosperity the
feople, and that trade will soon he back to
normal. In every great turnover there must
be excesses, and statements which are meant
| only to stir up feeling. During the war with
Germany, many statements were broadcast by
our Government as propaganda which are
now known to be nothing but a bunch of lies.
It°is necessary to inflame the people against
any prevailing evil: toleration is not possible
during times of national crises.
| there are many lies being broadcast through
the Kuomingtang propaganda bureau against
certain so-called evils in China: they dim to
weld the people together into a national unit,
and to attain their end must have something
to raise a hue and cry against. Foreigners
come in for their share of maligning, and
are probably going to have to suffer even

for

So now,

more in the’ future, but we hope, and feel
confident, that with the coming of a stable
government in China, that the excesses will
cease, and that foreign activities in China
will be protected.

This is probably the last letter that I shall

Wildcat Nine Meets
Lenoir-Rhyne Here

Friday afternoon the Wildcat nine will
meet the team from Lenior-Rhyne in the
fourth game of the season. This game will
| be played on Richardson Field, and, with the

| fourth, it will be the last appearance that
| the team will make on home territory before
leaving for an extensive southern trip dur-
ing which several strong teams will be met.

The strength of the aggregation from
Lenoir-Rhyne is unknown, and therefore no
predictions can be made concerning the game.
lit is rumored, however, that they will bring
a strong nine to Davidson and that there
the game ends Saturday.

The Davidson team looked fairly strong
in the two game series which they divided
with Oak Ridge. There was some nice field-
ing in both games, although the team. was
less able to pull together in the second con-
test than it had been in the first. It. still
appears that the pitching staff is not as

and Meadows have shown some real ability
and will be of great value on the mound.

the same as the one used in the Elon game
Tuesday.

write before I leave for the States. I shall
leave the latter part of June and hope to be
there about the middle of September. I am
going by Europe, if my money holds out,
and “see the sights.’ I could not have picked
any three years that would have been more
filled with action and change than the years
that I have been in China. There has hardly
been a month that a war was not raging in
some part of China, and the last few months
have seen the beginnings of a campaign for
the unification of China, and for the aboli-
tion of existing evils—some of them. It is
China’s Revolution. Usually we think that
the revolution occurred in 1911, but com-
pared to this, that was a mere political turn-
over. The people are being aroused now,
and are coming to realize that they are a
nation, capable of national existence.
With all best wishes, I am,
Sincerely,
W. M. Cox, Jr.

COLLEGE

will be a hotly contested nine innings before |

strong as it should be, but Wells, Cathey, |

The line-up for the game will be practically |

You are Cordially Invited to a Showing of

| Current Events

| The force of 1,500 marines now mobiliz-
/ing over the country will begin the long

journey to Shanghai this week to meet the
| request of Admiral C. S. Williams for ad-

The first time that |¢XcePtion of the game with Duke on the | ditional men in view of the increasingly

grave plight of Americans in Yangste
treaty ports.

Peace between the warring Chinese tongs
|—the Hip Sings and the On Leongs—was
| formally proclaimed on Sunday, March 27.
| The pact was signed at the Hotel Pennsyl-
vania in New York after a lengthy secret
| conference between high officials of the two
' secret societies. All Chinatown rejoiced at
| the news.

_ Expenditures ofthe Anti-Saloon league in’
educational and political campaigns during
the first six years of national prohibition
| approximated thirteen million dollars, figures
made public Monday by the senate campaign
funds committee show.

Anatol Josepho, a young Russian scientist,
' was presented with a $1,000,000 check for
rights to his recently perfected automatic
camera, Josepho has been working for three
the machine which allows the
public to photograph itself.

years on

The North Carplina Education Associa-
tion, adjourning its three day session in
Raleigh Saturday, set the eight months
school terms as its chief objective for the
1929 assembly.

Final ratifications of the arbitration treaty
between Sweden and Norway banning war
for any causé have been exchanged between
the two countries, a dispatch trom
Stockholm,

says

The faculty of Princeton University sign-
ed a resolution endorsing the resolution of
the Faculty of Political Science at Columbia
University, in December, calling for a re-
vision of the international debts.

The: Supreme Court of the United States
declares unconstitutional the New Orleans
ordinance and two Louisiana laws requiring
segregation of the races, holding that such
ordinances and laws violate the fourteenth
amendment.

CLIO II IDOI TIO IIT II III I IIIA IS STIS TIS IIT III IIIS

CLOTHING

|

Selby Ice

GOOD
ICE CREAM

Statesville, N. C,

At EU HALL on FRIDAY. APRIL Ist
; Showing Selz Shoes, Adler Collegian Clothes, High Grade Haberdashery
The VOGUE
; Shop for Men

15 E. Trade St. CHARLOTTF,N C.
, College Bepresentative, R. B. MCQUEEN
pee ———

Cream Co.

Adolphe Menjou

Afraid to Love, a

Davidson Theatre
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Friday, Saturday, April 1 and 2

Casey at the Bat

Mon., Tues., Apr. 4 and 5

Douglas McLean in Let It Rain

Wed., Thurs, Apr. 6 and 7

in Evening Clothes

Friday, April 8

Paramount Picture

Saturday, Apr. 9

