THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 10, 1927

<

SERIES OF LECTURES TO BE
GIVEN TO STAFF REPORTERS

The Davidsonian staff has taken a forward
stride in maintaining The Davidsonian as the

best paper in the Carolinas and making it

the best in the South by ‘preparing a series
of lectures for the new and old reporters.
These lectures are given by some member
of the staff, some instructor in the English
department of the college, or by some ex-
perienced representative the
publications in the surrounding cities.

various
The
purpose of these talks to the contributors of
the paper is to give them helpful hints and
suggestions that will aid them in developing

from

their ability to “put it across” to the readers. |

Harllee Branch made the first talk to the

reporters on the general appearance of the |

paper and the knack of writing snappy heads
which will give to the reader the gist of the

news in an attractive manner. P. F. Jones

made the next talk on feature writing, fol- |
lowed the next week by the talk of A. N. |
Brown on how to accomplish the best results |

as a reporter.

“Good English in News Articles” was the
subject of Dr. E. F,
the reporters last Monday night. Literary
English is somewhat different from journal-
istic English, he explained, the average col-
lege journalist being more literary than the
city reporter. He stated that slang is per-
missible in newspapers to a certain extent.
Some common errors in sentence .structure
were pointed out and illustrated. The ex-
amples given by Dr. Shewmake were taken
from a manuscript that he is preparing for
a college textbook. In closing he recom-
mended several books for reading, and stated
that the dictionary should ever be before the
writer as one of the most useful sources of
study.

That the average Davidsonian reporter
when beginning to write for the paper needs
coaching and instruction is because of the
fact that most of the recruits with which
the staff has to deal are raw and have had
little or no experience.
new men are given facts and suggestions
about writing which they could never get by
mere practice in composition. A check
taken on the attendance of the new journal-
istic aspirants and their regularity in at-
tending is noted as a measure of their interest
in the work and their adaptability for future
responsibilities.

is

These meetings are held regularly every
Monday-«night at 7:00 o’clock and any who
are interested in writing and Wish to attend
are invited to do so. Prof. E. J. Erwin
will speak next Monday night on ‘Feature
Writing.” The editor of The Davidsonian
is in correspondence with the editors of the
Charlotte Observer and the Charlotte News,
and it is thought that a talk by one of these
men will. be arranged soon. Other speakers
on the same general subject are being sought.

FORENSIC TRYOUTS RESULT

(Continued from page 1)

and Prof. C. K. Brown acted as judges in
selecting this team. After hearing a series
of excellent debates, the judges chose W.
K. Pritchette and R. C. Grady as the mem-
bers of the team. Laurence Dumas is the
‘alternate. The others who debated are:
J. P. McKnight, A. F. Lapsley, and B. F.
Webb. Davidson will have the negative side
of this question also.

In order to select the other two debating
teams which will compete this spring, two
more try-outs will be necessary. The. first
of these will be held March 8th. Resolved,
That the United States should cancel Inter-
allied war debts, is the question to be de-
bated. The team that is selected at that
time will make an extended Northerii trip to
debate against the teams of Gettysburg, Wil-
liam and Mary, and Rutgers, all in their
home territory. The last team will be select-
ed on the evening of March 22nd. This
team will debate the question: “Resolved,
That the Volstead Act should be modified,”
against Sewanee, at Davidson.  Inter-col-
legiate debating for this year will be brought
to a close at Davidson by this debate.

INTERCLASS TRACK MEET

(Continued from page 1)
following schools have entered with indi-
cations of more to follow: Brevard, Con-
cord, Raleigh, Greensboro, Reidsville, Fay-
etteville, Salisbury, Statesville, Wilmington,
and Barium Springs. Charlotte, the win-
ner of last year’s meet,has-not~ yet defi-
nitely decided to enter yet.

At the last meeting of the As-You-
Like-It Club held in the home of Mrs,
Sample on Concord Road, Mrs. White
read a very interesting paper on the life
and works of Dr. Grenfell.

Shewmake’s talk to}

In these lectures the |

Constitution Adopted by
Journalist Fraternity:

Delta Pi Kappa Meets to Make
Future Plans

Delta Pi Kappa, honorary Journalistic ira
ternity, met last In the
course of business several important projects
were proposed, discussed, and acted upon. At
a previous meeting a constitutional comiit-
tee, composed of Dan Wharton and Caldwel!
Withers, was appointed to draft a new con-
stitution for the fraternity. They presented
the new constitution at this time and it was
| adopted.

Friday evening.

The main feature of the new con-
stitution as differing from the old one is a
special provision for the election of
'members.

new

The drafting of the new constitution was
}one of the steps taken in reorganizing Delta
Pi Kappa in accordance with the require-
ments of the honorary fraternity council.
At a previous meeting a message was receiv-
ed from the honorary fraternity council to
the effect that Delta Pi Kappa must be com-
pletely reorganized in order to keep its place
in the council. Previously Delta Pi Kappa
was only a conditional member of the coun-
cil as it was organized only last year. There-
fore the fraternity has made extensive plans
for the progress of the organization and it
was voted at the meeting to comply with the
requirement of the honorary fraternity coun-
cil at once. After a considerable discussion
the following steps were taken:

Walter Jr... and Martin
Were appointed as an insignia committee to

Lingle, Boyce
work out and draw up a copy of a new em-
blem and present it at the next meeting.

Plans were discussed for a series of talks
to be made to the fraternity by noted jour-
nalists of the state during the spring. A
committee composed of Caldwell Withers,
Buford Webb and White Hancock was ap-
pointed to plan this program and to secure
This program will probably be
begun in a few weeks, according to the ar-
rangements that the committee can make with
‘the speakers.

A discussion was held as to whether or
not Delta Pi Kappa should take steps toward
becoming a member of some national jour-
nalistic fraternity. This was reviewed thor-
oughly and a proposal was made that the
matter be investigated. No further decision
was made and the matter was carried over
to the next meeting. It is expected that
some-action will be taken along this line in
the near future.

the speakers.

April Issue F taal
for the Chameleon

The next issue of the Chameleon will come
out about April 10th. The editor requests
that material for the April number be hand-
ed in before March 21st as no material hand-
ed in after that time can be published.

At a recent meeting of the Davidson Pub-
lication Board it was decided that only one
number of the Chameleon will be published
this spring. Thus the April number will be
the last issue of the Chameleon this year.

It is not known what the Chameleon color
will be this spring, but the editor promises
a cover appropriate to the season. The
April number will be featured by more art
work than the former issues, and is expected
to be the best which
Cham’s carrying colors.

Contributors are urged to turn in their

issue has ‘displayed

material as soon as possible: verse to Cali-
gan; fiction to Warren Ogden; esays to Don
Wharton; and reviews to Jimmy Wharton.

RESUME ‘OF MAT SEASON

(Continued from page 2)

7 1-2 to 13 1-2.
The next to the last meet of the season
was held here with Duke. Again the local
team lost by a 6 to 15 score,
as usual, showed good form

and the old

to’down the strong Blue Devil team.

was scheduled to be held here on February
26th, but was put off on account of the death
of Captain Joe Frierson's brother. The meet
was held later at Carolina. The Wildcats
lost this match by a 20 to 3 score.

The members of the varsity squad were
as follows: Frierson, 118 pound class;
Flythe, 128 pound class; Davis, 138 pound
class; Estridge, 148 pound class; Crinkley,
158: pound class, and Garrison, 165 pound
class; Hill and Vance, in the unlimited. class.

)
meet, however, by 6: points, the score being
The Wildcats, |

The last meet of the year, with Carolina, |

Six New Men. Initiated
by Chemical Fraternity

Two Seniors and Four Juniors
Honored by Membership

On Monday night the local chapter of
Gamma _ Sigma
chemical fraternity, honored six students of
the college with election to membership on
A

special provision was made in the case of the

the basis of proficiency in this science.

fraternity to hold spring elections at this
time. were W. O. Puckett,
of Cornelius; F. D. Daniel, of
ville, Va.; H. L. Neely, of Charlotte; W. B.
Bradiord, of Charlotte; J. H. McConnell,
of Davidson, and T. T. Jones, of El Paso,
Texas.

Those chosen

Gamma Sigma Epsilon was established at
Davidson College six years ago, Dr. H. B.
Arbuckle, head of the Chemistry Department
of Davidson, being a leading figure in its
founding. that the fraternity
has had a healthy growth, now having chap-
in
universities of the country,

Since time

ters some of the leading colleges and

All of the newly elect are members of the
Junior class with the exception of W. O,
Puckett and J. 11. MeConnell,

Seniors. Puckett holds membership in Scab-

who are
bard and Blade, national honorary military
fraternity, the
Senior captain in the R. O, T.

and occupies position
C.

McConnell is president of his

Corps ol
the college.
class, member of the Student Council, presi
dent of the Pan-Hellenic Council, a member
of O. D. K. and Kappa Alpha, social fra
ternity. The other four elect are prominent
men of their class, being engaged in differ-
Daniel
particularly interested in debating and such

ent forms of campus activities. is
forensic activities. T.
of Pi Kappa Alpha socialraternity, is pres
ident:@f the Reporters’ Club and exception
W. 2B.

Bradford, member of the International Re

ally proficient in) journalistic lines.

lations Club and Sigma Epsilon fraternity,
is makingghonor grades in all subjects, be
I.

L. Neely is an active man in his class and

ing particularly efficient in chemistry.

among the students as a whole, and his eléc
tion to membership in Gamma Sigma Epsilon
is very gratifying because of the extremely

silon, unlike most other honorary fraterni
ties, offers bids only when such grades in the
subject has merited such.

Ring to be Built

The coming of spring has brought a re
vival of boxing interests at Davidson.
tain Elkins, having taken an active interest
in the sport, recently called for a show of

Cap-

hands among the Freshman class, in order
to see just how many of the new men would

support this form of sport. These

in favor of this and would support

made in the near future.

the delight of students, a rapid advance in the

Accordingly, to

pugilistic sport is expected.

A regular sized arena has been planned,
measured according to the standard set. by
the Marquis of Queensberry, to be located
between the South Barracks and the Gym
nasium, not far from the wildcat cage.

As soon as this is constructed and is ready
for use, inter-class in all
weights and classes will be held. No inter-
collegiate matches can beheld because of
faculty ruling, which prohibits them.
letters will be awarded because of this rul-
ing but a great of interest will be
aroused by keen competition among the dif-
ferent several in
school who are very good in this sport and
more interest will be aroused if more men
will become efficient.

boxing mects

deal

classes. There are men

If a fitting enthusiasm can be aroused for

ot |

For New Pugilists

i

FRESHMEN TO BE

(Continued from page 1)
letics from the leaders’ angle.

The class will then be favored with

‘short talks from Pinkney, Lincoln, Chris-
|tian, Appleby and Milton, who have been!

Epsilon, national honorary |

Charlottes- |

,thews. The minstrel is to be quite a sur-

T. Jones, a member

high grades he is making in this subject and |
because of the fact that Gamma Sigma lp- |

men |
showed, almost unanimously, that they were |
any |
movement to promote boxing that might he |

No!

this sport it will add much to athletics at |

Davidson, as a good boxing team will always
be a favorable drawing card.

_ JUNIORS WILL RAISE FUNDS

Davidson fight, but again they were not able |

(Continued from page 1)
The assessment is only one of a number
of ways by which money is to be raised.
|The class has! booked several attractions

| which are to be brought here in an at-||

'tempt to raise more money for Junior
| week. As the program for this year’s
| Junior Speaking is to be an elaborate one
and therefore an expensive one the
finance committee is hoping that every
member of the Junior class will come

across and do his share.

invited by the class for the occasion. The
speaker of the evening, as yet not an-
nounced, will at this time deliver the main
address of the program.

Prof. J. P. Williams,
Prof. K. J. Foreman, popular mem-
ber of the faculty will speak a few words
to the class.

Freshman «dean, |

and

The climax of the occasion will be a
ministrel given under the direction of the
program committee headed by Jim Mat-

prise and details are being carefully kept
secret. However, it is known that be-
jokes and music there will be a
Hebrew dialogue that promises to be a
very interesting impersonation of campus
leaders. The orchestra, led by Chartie
Orr, will play at intervals during the min-
istrel and J. C. Ecins will play on: the
xylophone.

sides

Plans for the banquet-are almost com-
plete, and the event promises to fulfill
the highest expectations of all the Fresh-
men,

> @ e272 Fe ee C4

protection to assure

to pipe-smokers!

The half-pound vac-
uum tin is forty-five
cents, the foil-pouch
package, sealed in
glassine, ts ten cents.

Do BD S BB BO © Oo S BS QS BS SS OS BS SSP @WD.Si Bea S@WeWe@ SBWe eu Sede VNst se BQaass sew. oeoes BL Bs So Ses ese DQeweeesa > oe eeee

ae a &

Safe-guarding tobacco’s
priceless asset

GRANGE

Tosacco that’s a veritable treasure, a
wealth of rich mellowness, worth its
weight in gold... deserves every possible

the utmost precaution is taken to safe-
guard Granger's priceless properties.

To’prevent the loss of one bit of its
freshness, Granger is first packed in a
heavy-foil pouch... Then to be 100% on
the safe-side, this is sealed ‘aIR-TIGHT in
an extra outside-wrapper of glassine—
keeping the tobacco ‘factory-fresh’ till you
break the seal to load your pipe!

Our chemists say it is ‘an almost perfect
seal for tobacco condition’— protecting
tobacco better than any container except
the vacuum tin. Then, because it is much
less expensive than a costly pocket-tin,
Granger's pocket-packet sells at just ten
cents. It’s the greatest value ever offered

GRANGER

RouGH CUT

MUSICAL PROGRAM TO BE

(Continued from page 1)

of the dramatic club in future editions of
The Davidsonian.

3esides ‘these two performances, the
Juniors will bring several other groups here
within the next month in order that every-
thing ‘connected -with Junior week will be
better than ever before. All the committees
appointed by Boyce Martin, who is in charge
of arrangements, are hard at work and
drawing their plans up into visible form.

The program committee, under the di-
rection of Bob Link, is arranging a Sat-
urday night affair that will be one of the
most outstanding of many years.

“Sanity Rare,” the official Junior
Speaking magazine is almost in its com-
pleted form and will be in the hands of
the printers within a short time.

Other arrangements are going forward
with utmost regularity and orderliness.

Have vou written her yet?

The Book Lovers’ Club held their reg-
ular meeting last Friday afternoon with

Mrs. Arbuckle. Mrs. Harding read an
interesting paper on Galsworthy while
Miss Maud Vincent gave an essay on

George Bernard Shaw.

Ee Cee a ea e_ eg

its safekeeping. So,

= p> Sa SS BO. -3_
SVVGEVIVICOVWVVBWVWVIVI ITVS SWS . = = SS SS = SS SS SS BD O_OD_DWSSDWSBD=-AD =D se. 3_3_3.35 so Ss Ba <= S&S @ S&S S| = SS =

for pipes only !

~~

0
di

Granger Rough’ Cut is made by the Liggett © Myers Tobacco Company [id

rrr. SSS SS SS SS SS SSS SSS
,rewerwouvvwvevvwvvwev evev vt Sf.
