4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 10, 1927

The Davidsonian

Member of Nerth Carelina Collegiate Press
Asseciation

Member of Seuthern Collegiate Press
Asseciation

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
‘The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students ef Davidson College

Eatered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

; SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cente per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication mast be in the hands of the
Maseaing Editer by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-

ceived from an unknewn source will not be published.
BOYCE SMBARLIN: subsabeccdéccsecdesuncdcbiun’ Editor-in-Chief
M.-P, CRAWFORD ..2.....2-.205.2.220.20- Business Manager
A. N. BROWN Managing Editor
W. K. PRITCHETT Managing Editor
J. B. MORIARITY Managing Editor
C. R. LAKE .-.... .-Athletic Editor
W. L. LINGLE -. -Associate Editor
F. C. WITHERS ...:.....--.---.--..-..-.--- Associate Editor
TD yitilyad ONIN eitnsnctaschuscunass -Associate Editor
L. C. WADSWORTH ..-------- ---Alumni Editor
Rit Cr GRADY 2 sce: cones sacs isdcscatacassehees. Exchange Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
R. S. ABERNETHY...-.-.—---- Assistant Business Manager
S. J. ALLISON. .-Assistant Business Manager
W. M. POWELL. Assistant Business Manager
P. ty, SAREON- Subscription Manager
B. W. DICKSON. Circulation Manager
S. W. MORRIS. Solicitor
W. _B. McGUIRE Solicitor
E. H. McCALL Solicitor
Reporters’ Club
W._H. BAILEY pussies tacksevesesucawonues President
. L. ELY Vice-President
. R. GRAHAM Pikes Secretary-Treasurer
. P, ANDERSON R.“W. McDERMI
W._H. BEST Ww. B MO
E. T. EDELMAN F. D. MILLER
E. S. HEEFNER V. A. MIL’
M. K. HENDERSON C. M. PRA
R. F. JARRATT D. T. STOKES
F. W. JOHNSTON W. R. TREVERTON
Z. V. LON W. R. WEAVE
J. P. McBRYDE B. A. WILSON

EDITORIAL

THE MELANCHOLY DAYS ARE HERE

The Davidsonian has always been known
to conform to tradition and custom. Some-
times things like that help a lot. It seems
to be traditional among collegiate journals
that at least three or four editorials be writ-
ten each year on college spirit, this editorial
running alternately with the regular ‘edi-
torials on “Keep Off the Grass.” So far
this year, The Davidsonian has been a here-
tic and refused to run any article on college
spirit. Upperclassmen have heard enough
of it, freshmen were pumped full of it at the
first of the year, and everyone carefully
omits an article like this when he is reading
a paper.

But possibly someone would feel slighted
if we failed to comment at least once on this
hackneyed old subject. We know there
will be nothing new that we can include in
the article. A subject that has been re-
hashed as thoroughly as this one has been
so overworked that it is practically impos-
sible to bring out any new thoughts. Which
brings us to the crux of or argument. The
students of Davidson have been so imbued
with the idea that a Davidson spirit does
exist on the campus that they have com-
pletely overlooked the fact that they are the
vital elements of such a spirit.

Last year it was very easy to effervesce
with jubilant Davidson spirit. It was easy
to back a winning team, it was easy to
throw all of one’s support to the first State
championship team that Davidson has had
in a number of years. Other teams were un-
fortunate, the Wildcats had numerous
breaks, and the team here was an excellent
piece of machinery. There is no attempt
whatsoever to detract any of the glory from
a team which won it so justly and cleanly,
but there is an attempt to criticize the at-
titude of some in the student body toward
the otcome of the present football season.

There has been no definite outburst of
criticism against the team but there is a
slight undercurrent running through the
student body at present. This. has’ been
voiced in bull-sessions,—surprise has been
expressed at the showing of the team.in
some of the recent contests. This is not an
expression of the entire student body, but
the opinions of a few must of necessity have
some influence on the opinions and ideas of
others.

On the editorial page of the Tar Heel a
few days ago there appeared two Open
Forum articles. “One student wondered
what was the matter with the football team.
In the article following another student list-
ed the unforunate defeats which: Carolina
has suffered this year and criticized the
_coaching staff and football affairs in general.
The second article was an answer to the
first. A team unsupportéd by its student
body can never be a real victor in any con-
fest. There are some who believe that this
is being developed at ‘Davidson

o

‘ self.

The contests already played are things of
the past. There are two more games on the
schedule and both of these are state teams.
One is to be played at Davidson, on a holi-
day, on the date of the other the faculty will
grant the students a holiday to attend the
game if a specific train is run to the scene of
the contest. The attitude of the student
body will determine to a large degree the
chances for success in these encounters.

This general idea has been drilled into the
heads of all here at Davidson time after
time, and from outward appearances it has
taken no effect whatsoever. It is an idea
which everyone takes for granted and re-
fuses to consider the personal element.

There is very little criticism of the way
the student body backed the team last Sat-
urday at Greensboro. Even though David-
son was on the losing side practically all .of
the way, the stands were putting out some
excellent organized cheering. But anyone
can put on their best manners before_com-
pany. Everyone knows that the team
works five days to play one, and yet very
few think that the student body should put
in as much intensive training. The general
attitude of the student body during the
week preceding a game has much to do with
the outcome of the conflict. The trend of
bull sessions, much as one is apt to dis-be-
lieve it, is the general attitude of the stu-
dent body and the team cannot help but
feel this attitude.

The ones who criticize should stop to re-
member the strides that other football
teams in the state have taken this year. The
plays Davidson used two or three years ago
as tricky and clever are the regular thing
now. Davidson has not retrograded, there
are many wlhio~-believe that the team here
this year is just as good as some of the past
two or three years, The main fact is that
other teams have developed rapidly in the
past year.

There is no one who can say that the Da-
vidson team this year has not fought. Ev-
ery man on the squad has wanted to win
every game as much, and very probably
more, than anyone in the stands. They have
done their best and we are not capable of
criticizing anyone who has put out all that
he has.

Next week Davidson plays the team with
which it is now tied for fourth place in the
state race. The result of this game will de-
termine whether or not Davidson drops
from the peaks of a championship in one
year to the very bottom of the ladder the
next. It is vitally essential that the student
body be here this coming Saturday to aid
the team in any way that it may.” Then if
they lose there is no criticism; if the team
loses with the student body absent, the stu-
dents have no one to blame but themselves.

LIFE SERVICE MEETINGS

During the first three days of the coming
week, Dr. Vander Meulen, of Louisville The-
ological Seminary will be present on the
campus for a series of meetings. To some
men this means much, to others little. To
the man who is thinking of what he will do
when he leaves college, it is essential in his
own mind that they attend these meetings.
those who have: decided and to those who
have not decided on various religious ques-
tions, it is important that they attend these
meetings in a receptive mood. :

A clear minded man accepts with delight
the privilege of hearing an educated man
discuss an intelligent subject. Next week
an excellent speaker will discuss a subject
close to everyone’s heart, and it is only nat-
ural that many will want to hear him. There
also will be many who will fail to attend
these meetings and will miss much valuable
advise on various subjects.

Every man on‘ the campus automatically
becomes a member of the Y. M. C. A. when
he matriculates in the institution. Some
never consider this ‘again, and others think
of it as the most important part of their
college lives. The student body should sup-
port the “Y” in anything it undertakes, since
it composes the organization of the “Y” it-
But here every man should support
and attend these meetings for his own per-
sonal good and development. There is no
question of patriotism or sympathetic sup-

port, but it should be rather of personal in- ‘

terest to each man.

We are still waiting for some overheated, in-
tensely collegiate editor to burst into flame and
print an editorial.for which he will be shipped.
Only one has done this so far this year, at Roches-
ter Tech, and one every two months is a poor
average, :

The diamond, which is an insulator for elec-
tricity, is one of the best conductors‘ of heat.

Yucatan has a law compelling employers in rural

districts to open schools for the children of their
employes. ean?

'
re a ‘ af

Ollapodrida

| CollegeComment |

A son of Israel, defiant, stood before the criminal
court. of Paris. He was a murderer. Before a
packed court room he was telling of the crime,
not in halting tones but in a strong defiant speech.
In a straightforward manner he told the court of
the horrors of the Ukraine during the regime of
Simon Petrula, of the anguish that his people had
suffered. For years he had hunted their tormenter
until his chance came in Paris. Walking up to
him he shot him five times, gave himself up to
the police. The Semetic onlookers cheered, The
jury retired, returned in one hour and a half, gave
a verdict of acquital, The crowd shouted “Vive la
France.” Sholem Schwartbard, the murderer, re-
tired to seclusion in fear of anti-Semetic assasins.
A man who had committed a premeditated murder
had been set free. Morally the jury was right but
the courts of France have been weakened ma-
terially by the case.

In Bolivia four men came before the courts and
were pronounced guilty of the murder of General
Jose Manuel Pando. Only one must die for the
crime. Three white ballots and one black were
olaced in a box. The four drew. A twenty-cight-
year-old soldier drew the black ballot and was
sentenced to death, Fervently he pronounced his
innocence, prayed for a quick execution. The
authorities took pity and are seeking a pardon
for the young man. Morally all four should die
but one should not suffer while the other three
live.

For fifty-eight years the Bellvue hospital
emergency ward has taken in suffering and ex-
tinct humans of New York from the outside
court. There is no record of the number but in
the last twenty-five years 1,500,000 sick, mangled
®r dead persons have been brought to its doors
and some 1,175,000 others with minor injuries.
Last week the ward was emptied and moved to
new quarters. A key was sought for the outer
door but none could be found. In fifty-eight
years it had not been locked. Only the minister
is on par with the faithful physician as the serv-
ant of humanity, and the minister is not called up-
on for such continuous service.

Norway and Scandanavian countries have fur-
nished many great men to the world especially in
exploration and literature but who knows that
Knute Rockne emigrated from that almost polar
land some forty years ago. Since 1919 his name
has been heard around the United States as a
wizard-like gridiron coach. In eight years or
more he has fought through hard schedules, won
64 games, lost 6 and tied’ 3, the last blemish less
than a week ago. When interviewed he gave out
his one diet precept of his team. “Eat no cholo-
late, cocoa, greasy fried potatoes, pork or
bananas.” That rule will benefit anyone’s physi-
cal condition materially.

While other teachnical schools are increasing
language requirements the Case School of Applied
Science has eliminated all langauge courses from
its curricula. Economics and history have been
substituted. The reason for the action was that
the graduates found too little use for their foreign
knowledge. Educational authorities. frown upon
such an action. In this day of easy international
communication no one’s education is complete
without some knowledge of other tongues.

Keeping up his reputation for a lot of noise and
a big ballyhoo the renouned mayor of Chicago
wired two thousand state and national executives
inviting them to join an “America First” club for
the sum of ten dollars. No disposition was pro-
vided for the twenty thousand dollar proceeds.
The organization met with a setback. Ridiculous,
ironical answers were forthcoming. Beloit, Wis.,
furnished the best answer with the suggestion that
the country be rid of English sparrows rather
than an antiquated British ruler. In this case to
be practical was to be witty.

W. L. L.

Thomas D. Green, owner of the Wodward Totel,
New York City, who was reelected president of
the American Hotel Association, has pledged his
support to a proposed program to install a hotel
management course in every leading university in
the country. Mr. Green predicts that the course
which is now offered at Cornell University will be
adopted by other institutions in the near future.

Mr. Guy Morrison Walker has recently given
a thousand dollars: to DePauw University, his
Alma Mater, to provide at each commencement a
Walker Cup to be awarded to the member of the
senior class who has most truly served the uni-
versity during his: four years’ course.

b

Farmers oft he Middle West purchase more
brooms than any other ‘household article.

Flowers. picked in the morning in Holland are.

con sale the same afternoon in Berlin, being car-
ried by airplane from one country t othe other.
*: >

The plan adopted at the recent Press Associa-
tion convention relative to the establishment of a
state inter-collegiate press bureau should bear
much fruit. It will help to band the colleges of
the state together more closely, and it will also
aid the various institutions in developing their
respective papers in a number of ways.

The Queen is dead! Long live the Queens! Our
esteemed contemporary, Queens College, seems to
be in rather a turmoil over the developments of a
recent election. A May queen for the festivities
next spring was elected and according to reports
there was some “dirty work” going on some-
where during the election. No less than five Open
Forum articles appeared on the editorial page of
the school paper in its last issue and all were con-
cerned With the great tragedy of politics entering
the campus.

Carolina will use its new $300,000 stadium for
the first time next Saturday when they meet Da-
vidson in the annual embroglio.

Co-eds at Austin College, Sherman, Texas, have
organized a Co-Ed Pep Squad to aid the cheering
in the football contests.

Evidently the college man has had enough of the
“wild and wasteful ocean.” Two attempts to
start floating universities have failed this year due
to insufficient enrollment.

Recent figures from Emory University show that
members of O. D. K. had an average for the past
year higher than any other organization on the
campus. They even excelled the average of A. E.
U.,-honorary scholastic fraternity, corresponding
to Phi Beta Kappa. "

L The new Whitfield building at the Mississippi

State College for Women is rapidly assuming
shape and will be ready for occupancy next sem-
ester.

The various schools in Mississippi have com-
bined their humorous magazine and now publish
only one for the entire state. The first issue of
this magazine, Hoi Polloi, appeared last week.

At the University of Georgia the co-eds are to
have a drum, fife, and bugle crops. And now who
dares mention with regret the fact that there are
now no co-eds at Davidson?

Two R. O. T. C. students in the aviation depart-
ment at the University of Texas are planning to
make their way through school by taking pas-
sengers on air trips.

The University of Georgia is now putting. on a
daily radio program broadcast by WSB, the sta-
tion of the Atlanta Journal, Atlanta, Ga. Speak-
ers from various. departments of the college
speak each day on various problems and situa-
tions connected with the institution.

Sigma Phi Epsilon, national social fraternity,
has recently granted a charter to Delta Sigma
Epsilon, a local at the University of Alabama. The
chapter will be established there this month.

The Athletic Association at Agnes Scott has
been conducting a sweeping inquiry into the
question of the posture of the girls on the cam-
pus. One of the, statements follows: “Out of 409
girls (walking out of class), only 62 walked out
holding their heads proudly erect and back
straight, while the other 347 drooped out in a
disconsolate manner.” Well, you don’t expect
everyone to have a perfect recitation, do you?

Fifty new students were pledged to the various
fraternities at Oglethorpe* University last week.

The Watchtower of Wesleyan and the Cluster of
Mercer are having a big verbal battle in the
columns of these two papers each week. We
didn’t know girls could call boys so many names
without using profanity.

The Salemite of Salem College announces the
meeting of the McDowell Club Saturday night.
We knew he was a good football player but we

didn’t know that he was running for president
also.

Agnes Scott College will met Vassar in a de-

bate td be held in Atlanta, Ga., some time in the
spring.

How about this for frankness? Headline in the

Alegheny (Pa.) Campus “Weak Allegheny Team
Trounced by Pitt.”

The students at Centenary College have a musi-
cal program at the chapel period once a week,

For the sake of harmony within the family we
hope that the State Technician will not call the
yelling organization at Carolina the Carolina
Cherries any more.
