THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 28, 1927

A. M. Examinations begin 9:00.

SENIOR EXAMS
Session 1926-27
Second Semester
P. M, Examinations begin 2:00.

MAY
SAT A. M. Biology 4, Education 3, English 7, 8, App. Math. 2
14 i Greek 5, Law, Physics 4, 5
P. M. Accounting; R. O. T. C. 3, 4
A. M. Biology 3, Economics 3, Education 4, Mathfl 4
TUES. Philosophy 2, Psychology 1, Geology 1, Physics 1
1 za SORE
‘ P. M. Astronomy, Biology 5, Christian Evidences
Geology 2, History 5, Physics 2, Public Speak. and Debate
A. M. English 4, 6, Philosophy 1, Polit. Sc. 3
i. Psychology 3, Spanish 6
P. M. Economics 1, French 1, Spanish 1, German 1
A. M. History 6, Physics 3;~Polit. Sc. 1, Sociology
THURS. .
19 P. M. Bible 5, Chemistry 6, Economics 2, Education 2
English 3, 5, Mathematics 3
A. M. Bus. Management, Chemistry 3, Education 1
oh ny Polit. Sc. 2, Spanish 4,5
P. M. Geography, History 4, Psychology 4
SAT. A. M. App. Math. 1, Biology 7, Psychology 2, Spanish 3
21 P. M. Chemistry 5, Greek 6, Psychology 5, Biology 6

NOTE—COURSES NOT SHOWN ON SCHE DULE TO BE ARRANGED BY
CONFERENCE.

Mr. J. P. Williams conducted services Dr
for the men at the convict camp last

Sunday.

. Lyon’s mother is spending a few
weeks with Dr. and Mrs. Lyon at their

home.

Rent a Fine Car
In 2 Minutes

Ride in Groups and Split the Cost

It

Plan a trip with three or four others—divide the bill—
and the cost to each is so small you'll never miss it.

F you want a car in a hurry—

whether you are known at our
station or not—we'll have you on the
road in about two minutes.

That’s how easy it is to rent a car.
No red tape—no annoying questions.
You go where you like—-and you’re
the driver.

There’s one big advantage in this
service—one that has made it tremen-
dously popular with students every-
where. That’s the low cost of rent-
ing acar. And you’re welcome to the
use of a car either for a few miles of
driving, a trip of an hour or two, a day,
a week or a month.

The only requirement is that you
be qualified and competent to drive a
car. That is all.

We especially invite students to use
our cars. You'll like the friendly spirit
here—the fine service—the excep-
tional economy.

costs no more, for five to ride in one of our cars.

aN

|

od

Hertz Drivurself Stations, Inc., (Dixie)

20 S. Church St.
509 W. Trade St.

ROLLED BY YELLOW TRUCK

10,2200
4 CARS
DRIV-UR-“SELF i

STATIONS

& COACH MFG. CO.
DIARY GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION

Phone 3600

: Phone 7898
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

.| tory sent a detachment of troops to dis-

Secretary of Missions
Talks Concerning China

Dr. Darby Fulton Describes Chinese
Affairs of Today

“China, a World Interest,” was the sub-
ject chosen by Dr. Darby Fulton on Mon-
day night, when he spoke to a large group |
of college students in Shearer Hall. Dr. |
Fulton is well qualified to speak on China |
because of his missionary work in the |
Orient. His present duty as secretary of |

the Foreign Mission Board of the South- |
ern Presbyterian Church, has put him in
close contact with the Chinese missions |
and people.

At the present time, China is a nation |
of world interest both because of the!
conditions which now exist there and|
because of her future relation to the other |
great nations. “China is one of the |
world’s greatest problems today,” said |
Dr. Fulton. It’s natural resources, its |
social relation to the rest of the world, |
its political importance and especially the
religious conditions in China are of im-|
portance to all. y |

Dr. Fulton, using the -blackboard in
designating locations, showed the con-|
ditions which now exist in China. He
carefully distinguished between the pres-
ent uprising in southern China and the
chaotic state of affairs which has existed |
in the northern section of the country |
for several years. Because of dialect, |
economic conditions, outside influences
and political uprisings, the country is
roughly divided into the northern and
southern portions by the Yang Tse River.

For the past several years, the whole
northern section has been in the hands
of military rulers. “These military lead-
ers are not moved by patriotic motives,
they do not have the good of China at |
heart but are looking solely to personal |
gain.” These five militarists keep the
northern country in poverty. They raise
their funds by raids on-the towns and
villages. Fighting as they do, with no
definite outline, they often make alliances
with one another when they see it is to
their own good. The soldiers are no
more loyal or patriotic than their com-
manders. They are paid to fight and will
fight for those from whom they receive
most pay. Dr. Fulton told several in-
teresting stories about the soldiers chang-
ing sides overnight. Dr. Fultan tells one
story about the fickle soldiery which was
appreciated by all his hearers. One of
these northern towns, Tsing Kiang Pu,
was once in the hands of a band of
bandits. The general holding that terri-

place the bandits who were well fortified
in the town. The detachment sized up the
situation as rather dangerous so instead
of risking their lives they rounded up
a number of farmers, bound them hand
and foot and carried them to their com-
mander. A truce obtained with the ban-
dits gave the detachment a chance to sell
the ammunition given them. The gen-
eral, ignorant of the circumstances,
punished the farmers, thinking them to
be the bandits.

Dr. Fulton then explained the present
situation, This is, he saidj simply an up-
rising sponsored by the young men of
the south to overthrow imperialism. They
want to overthrow the traditions and
customs of old China that are binding
them down, they ‘want the north freed
from the military rulers that overrun
the country and they want foreign’ op-
pression removed. This last matter, ac-
cording to Dr. Fulton, is of great im-
portance to us. To understand the sit-
uation, we must turn back to the war of
.1842, in which Great Britain, later fol-
lowed by France, Germany, Japan and
Italy, forced China to sign what has been
termed a one-sided treaty. They were
forced to give concessions ‘to foreign
powers, which consist: of the choicest
parts of China, they were forced to allow
missionaries to go in any part of the
country for the purpose of preaching the
gospel, they were forced to give permis-
sion for all foreigners to come under the
jurisdiction of courts of jtheir own nation
and they were also forced to permit their
custom tariffs to be regulated by other
nations. It is against this imperialism
that young China is revolting. Dr. Fulton
says that he believes almost every mis-
sionary is in favor of freeing China from
these obligations. “They do not like the
idea of preaching the gospel of the father-
hood of God and the brotherhood of man
in. Christ where their way was opened at

the point of the bayonet and the mouth
of the cannon.”

“I believe, however, that it is not the
force of this treaty to which the Chinese
are subjected but it is the treatment of

the people by the foreigners that cuts to’

Fulton.
many examples of how the respectable

people of China are mistreated by for-
eigners in the main streets of their own
Cities.
our missionaries in China.

GAMECOCKS, DEACONS
DOWNED _.

the quick” says Dr. He gave

(Continued from page ‘1)

Bromwell (D). Time: 4 min. 54 4-5 sec.

220 yard dash—Currie (D); Kell (D);
Goodykoontz (D). Time: 225-10.

Shot put—Magill (C); Leftwich
Brewer (C). Distance: 39 ft., 9 in.

Pole vault—Rogers (C); Jennings
Bohannon (D). Height: 11 ft., 3 in.

120 yard high hurdles—Thomas (C) ; Sims
(D) ; third place man disqualified.

Two mile run—Treverton (D); Keels
(C) ; Silverman (C). Time: 10 min., 42 sec.

High jump—Rembert (C);'R. G. Calhoun

(D);

(D) ;

(D); D. M. Calhoun (D). Height: 5 ft.,
10 in.

440 yard dash—Goodykoontz (D); Pink-
ney (D); Currie (D). Time: 51 7-10.

Discus—Carson (C) ; Bohannon (D) ; Lin-
coln (D). Distance: 118 ft., 9 in.

Broad jump—Baker (C); Melton
Kell (D). Distance: 20 ft., 6 3-4 in.

220 low hurdles—Thomas (C);
(D); Melton (D). Time: 27 3-5,

Half mile—Boyce (C); Stigler
Cooper (C). Time: 2 min., 1 sec.

Javelin—Creech (D); Brown (D); Grif-
fin (C). Distance: 146 ft., 3 in.

Summary of the Wake Forest meet:

100 yard dash—Currie (D) ; Goodykoontz
(D); Rockley (WF). Time: 9 7-10 sec.

Mile run—O’Neal (D); Collier (WF);
Brownell (D). Time: 4 min, 21 8-10 sec.

(D);
Frye

(D);

880 yard run—Pinkney (D); Greene
(WF); Stigler (D). Time: 2 min., 7 2-10
sec.

120 yard high hurdles—Daniels (WF) ;
Brown, (D); Stradley (WF). Time:
16 1-10 sec.

220-yard dash—Currie (D) ; Goodykoontz
(D); Rackley (WF). Time: 22 7-10 sec.

220 yard low hurdles—Daniels (WE);
Melton (D); Frye (D). Time: 26 9-10 sec.

Two mile run—Treverton (D); Collier
(WF) ; Graham (D). Time: 10 min., 55 sec.

440 yard dash—Goodykoontz (D); Pink-
ney (D); Kell (D). Time: 51 4-10 sec.

Pole vault—Jennings (D) and Bailey (D)
tied for first; Frye (D). Height: 10 feet.

High jump—D..M. Calhoun (D); Rich-
mond (WF); Dumas (D). Height: 5 ft.,
10 in.

Broad jump—Daniels (WF); Melton
(D); Bohannon (D), Distance: 22 ft., 1 in.

Javelin—Brown (D); Leston (WE);
Holliday (WF). Distance: 148 ft., 6 in.

Shot .put—Leftwich (D) ; Daniels (WF) ;

Melton (D). Distance: 39 ft., 9 in.
Discus—Bohannon (D); Regen (D);
Stradley (WEY. Distance: 109 ft., 6 in.

It may be of interest to the Davidson stu-
dent body to learn that Dr. Edgar Gammon,
who conducted the fine meetings of the recent
spring life-work campaign of the “Y,” has
accepted a call to the Myers Park’ Presbyte-
rian Church of Charlotte.

As usual, the “Y” will hold its annual sum-
mer conference at Blue Ridge this summer,
at which students from all over the South
will be present to enjoy the splendid lectures
and speeches and at the same time to enjoy

the magnificent natural features of the moun- |.
Anybody who is inter- |

tains round about.
ested in attending this series of meetings is |
asked to see Brownie Bradford at once.

|
|

This is what hurts the work of:

DR. HENRY LEWIS SMITH

(Continued from page 1) |
do, and whose personal engine adds driving:
power’ to its smooth-running performance.”
Dr. Smith spoke of Gen. Robert E. Lee
as his idea of a man in whom this ideal of

Omicron Delta Kappa was incarnate in hu-

man personality. “I affirm without hesita-
tion,” he stated, “that for consummate and
unexpected ability in related and contradic-
tory fields of action, for daring individualism
and ultra-progrtyveness, for ability to
withstand and rist Syove and. trample under
foot the standards ands -aditions of his own
age and the idolized beliets and traditions of
his own state, section, and social circle, Rob-
ert E. Lee represents the most surprising
personality and wd Sete ad in modern his-
tory.

He then reviewed the work of this South-
ern general, declaring that his life-work
after Appomatax, which in far-seeing genius, -
originality, and practical progressiveness
would outlast, outshine, and far out-weigh
all the more spectacular glories of his mili-
tary career. He showed that General Lee
rejected numerous offers of power, wealth,
and ease, preferring to dedicate his powers
to “The United States of the Future.”

General Lee, he pointed out, was a man
who possessed progressive, all-American loy-
alties, advocating free labor, an undivided
union, and post-war reconciliation under the
old flag. Dr. Smith then outlined his progres-
siveness as an educational statesman, and in
closing said, “Thus, like his diviné Exem-
plar, he sacrificed his mortal life that his
life-work might become immortal, and taught
the, world the glory of self-renunciation, of
whole-hearted Christian consecration, and of
fidelity to the heaven-sent duty duty of thc
hour at whatever cost of personal sacrifice.”

GOLDEN QUILL
(Continued from page 1)

L. C. Wadsworth, the alumni editor of The
Davidsonian, member of the Reporters’ Club,
and faculty. He is a member of Phi Gamma
Delta social fraternity.
and Junior assistant manager of basketball,
is both well known and well liked by the
student body. He is a member of Theta
Upsilon Omega social fraternity,

R. C. Grady, the exchange editor of The
Davidsonian, member of the Reporters’ Club,
varsity debater, and ‘contributing editor of
the Annual, is widely known because of his
connection with so many campus activities
and because of his scholastic achievements.
He is a member of Pi Kappa Phi social
fraternity.

The date for the initiation of these men
has not been announced but will probably be
in the near future.

IMPERIAL

CHARLOTTE, N., C- -
Mon., Tues., Wed.

GILDA
GRAY

eel Ne==

“CABARET”

Gilda is right at home
in this wonderful drama
of night life. It is still

better than Alamo. Boys!

don’t fail to see her do
her stuff!

WHITE DRUG CO.

a)

