a

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 10, 1927

Exchanges

“Please flunk me” fifty students asked
their instructors. “We humbly petition
you professors that we be flunked in all
our courses that we are now taking.”
These words were drawn up by a mem-
ber of the Weekly staff to prove that
Pitt students think less and write more.
Of the fifty-two asked, fifty signed the
trick petition without questioning or
reading it.

The Mercer Cluster is getting out class
edition now. First, came the freshman
edition in flaming red, thereupén follow-
ed by the the sophomores in royal pur-
ple, and now the juniors. They are all
most unique in makeup and subject mat-
ter. We wait the senior number with
much anticipation.

The other day American Marines reg-
ulating certain matters in Nicaragua
were fired upon from ambush. Nobody
hurt fortunately, but American forces
were told to capture, punish, and, if nec-
essary, shoot those guilty of the attack.

Overalls have been adopted as the of-
ficial costume of the sophomores at the
University of Washington.

A freshman at Mercer University sued
his room-mate for “divorce” on the
grounds of extreme and inhuman cruelty.
Among the accusations were: refusal on}
the part of upperclassman to give him a|
nickle a week for shows, the charge that |
his room-mate persisted in using the|
plaintiff's chewing gum; and that on cold |
nights the defendant went to bed first, |
but refused the poor freshman to share!
the benefits of the warm bed. no |

The University of North Carolina Glee
Club announces the completion of plans
for a trip’ through Europe during the
coming summer. The club will leave
Chapel Hill immediately upon the close
of first summer session, and will give

Converse Dramatic Club
to Give Play Here Soon

Junior Class Sponsors Performance
Here on March 28th

The Converse Dramatic Club, under the
auspices of the Junior Class, will give a per-
formance at Davidson on the night of March
29th.

The Junior Week Committee, acting in
behalf of the Junior Class, engaged the per-
formers some time ago. The profits will be
used to defray some of the expenses which
the class will have to meet during Junior
Week. Tickets will be put on sale, as usual,

Dr. Gammon to be
Here for Services

The Y. M. C. A. has engaged the services
of Dr. E. G. Gammon, pastor of the First

the life-work meeting this spring.

Dr. Gammon is a* Hampden-Sidney man
and was an athlete while there. He played
varsity football, being quarterback, and
played shortstop on the baseball team. He

Union Theological Seminary. After finishing
his work at the Seminary he was college
pastor at Hampden-Sidney. He has done
noted work with men and boys and has been

Presbyterian Church of Selma, Ala., to hold

is also an O. D. K. man and is a graduate of |

'Dr. Watts Writes Paper
for Language Magazine

Professor Tells of Unpublished
Works of Racine

The following passage contains the sub-
stance of an article published in the March
edition of “Modern Language Notes,” written
by Dr. George B. Watts, associate professor
of French at Davidson.
| Louis Racine’s famous poem, “La , Reli-
| gion,” first published in Paris in 1742, had a
very considerable popularity during its day,
appearing in several editions of the eight-

|eenth century and being translated into four |

used extensively on young people's confer-
ences and meetings. Dr. Gammon is there-
fore peculiarly adapted for this work.

about two days before play. All tickets will
be 50 cents. Half of the house will be re-
served and the other half will be rush seats.
The Juniors hope to have a large crowd out The life-work meetings held every year
| for the Converse dramatists. at this time come as a consummation to the
| In the past, the work of the Converse | series of talks held by the Vocational Guid-
| Dramatic Club has been appreciated by all. | ance Institute, which stressed the fact that
| On their coming trip, they will give one of | whatever a man may choose as his life-work
Barrie’s five-act plays.. Eight or nine girls | he should not leave God out entirely.

will make the trip from Spartanburg to as-| The services will start at the church Sun-
sist in the performance. It is fully expected | day morning, April 13th, and will continue

‘that their coming dramatic exhibitions will | through Wednesday. Meetings will be held |

|at chapel and after supper. Dr. Gammon
| will be assisted by the Columbia Quartet.
| The quartet is a fine one and will be a great
| asset to the meeting.

The decision meeting held this fall by Dr.
| | Ben Lacy was a great success and was enjoy-
any other institution. I would like to see! ed by everyone. With Dr. Gammon and Dr.
levery member of a college community | Lacy setting. the pace the ‘“Y” will have a
| free only by finding a certain compelling, | hard time next year keeping up to the stand-
| dominant, central motive, which every! ard set this year. ;
member of the community receives and|.
takes as his own. The college must find
a purpose, common to all its members,
accepted by all its members, before every
member can be set free to further that |
purpose in his own way. If then we pre-
suppose that an American college be-
community of intelligence, it
means that all the members of the com- |
munity accept the same gospel of intellect |
as their guide in life.

As to the course of study in an Ameri- |

be as good or better than those of the past.

‘NO SUCH NEGATIVE FREEDOM

(Continued from page 4)

thing, for that is what they have to do
with the life of today themselves; and I
think we shall have’ to make this ex-
doing away with the separation. But

hatever we find, I am sure we have go
comes a whatev e ,la e we have got

in some course of this kind.

Responsibility for Students

Then secondly, (this has become a com-
© 77 $ 9 > ° , | . 1}
can college, I take, it that I have spoken |menplace view), what we must certainly

so much on this and so often that I need \do is to get the young American to take

concerts on the road to New York, and
sail on August Ist. A month will be di-
vided between Paris and London, and
trips into the surrounding country.

At George Washington University a
class recently waited fifteen minutes for
the professor to show up. When he fail-
ed to do so, it unanimously excused it-
self. Next day the professor claimed that
he had been in the class because he had
left his hat on the desk. On the follow-
ing day when he came to the class he
found hats scattered in profusion over the
room, but not a student.

‘Seven ‘hiindred roller skates have been
bought by the students at the University
of Oregon in a single week, The students
skate to classes, to town, and to dances.

Note: And maybe from buggy rides.

“Women are storming’ co-educational |
institutions, to the dismay of college au-
thorities. Northwestern University has
passed a law providing ‘that there must
be 450 men for 350 women. The action
was taken in order to increase the pro-
fessional atmosphere of Northwestern,
and to protect the men.

Debating societies of Tulane and New-
comb recently discussed “Should College
Students be Privileged to Fire their Pro-
fessors.” The decision rendered by the
judges was in favor of the negative.

It has been estimated that the Univer-
sity of California spends more on wages
and salaries than any other university in
the United States.

DAVIDSON BASEBALL |
SCHEDULE

(Continued from page 1)

April 18—University of North Carolina at
Salisbury. : :

April 21—Duke University at Durham.

April 25—Wofford College at Davidson.

April 27—Elon College at Elon.

April 29—University of North Carolina
at Chapel Hill.

May 2—V. P. I. at Davidson.

May 4—N. C. State at Salisbury.

May 5—N. C. State at Davidson.

May 7—Furman University at Davidson.

May 10—The Citadel at Davidson (pend-
ing);

Miss Mary Hamilton spent the week-
end with her parents.

to say but little. Tam quite sure that as} the responsibility tpon himself of getting
to the course of study, we have got to} his own. studies.

Somehow or other we
discard the elective system, if we are

have fallen into a situation where the

| periment of trying the unification by just |

to bring our course of studies together |

zoing to have a community of learning,
}and have all the members of the com-
munity engaged in the same intellectual
enterprise. Our system as it is separates
knowledge into parts and sends each
member of the community to a collection
of some of the scattered parts. We must
bring them back together again, make
some unification of preparation which
shall bind us together as students. Va-
tious devices have been tried in recent
years to establish unity among courses.
We have tried orientation courses for
Freshmen. We have been calling this
orientation course an attempt to tell a
Freshman what he is going to study be-
fore he studies it, as he goes into the
field of social science, so that he will
understand it when he takes it, and I
think they have done quite a little in the
way of unification. More might be done
by a senior course which would attempt
to unify different courses after they had
been taken. This was done formerly by
|the old senior course in philisophy. T
| think that there is one method that ought
|to be tried and that is the giving up of

the division of knowledge altogether. Our
|elective system is based on the division
| of the field of knowledge into subjects,
jand the student takes five at a time. I
hope that we are going to discontinue the
attempt of sttidying a number of sub-
| jects, and study a civilization in all its
}aspects at the same time. I should like
|to get a group of Freshmen and acquaint

{them with Greek civilization as a whole;
|not separate subjects, but get together a
group of students who want to know the
| way of ‘understandjng a life and then take
b great episode in human life and seé
| what it looks like as a whole, and see if
| they can understand how a great people
lived; not getting this or that special

| phase, but considering life as a single

teacher is responsible for what happens
to the mind of the student. Somehow or
other we have got to get that relation-

!ship reversed. A sttifent goes to college

to learn and somehow he has got to start
out learning for himself, and take the
initiative himself, and whatever the
teacher does must be by way of guidance
and a mere supplement to that which the |
stident does himself. I think that the|
teacher can help the student, but can not |
do it for him, and that is what we are!
trying to do with our lecture system and
our scheme of instruction, We are trying |
to hand on to the student the work done |
‘by the teacher. |

|
|

The proper relationship is that of |
master and apprentice, and the first duty |
of a teacher is to be a student, and then |
the teacher relationship comes when the}
young mind comes into contact with an|
older mind, It is very hard to get the)
young American to do it. You cannot |
get young Americans to play their own |
football games. They won't play it them-
selves. They have to get somebody else
to manage it for them, someone to coach,
for the young American does not care to |
play his own game; they want to furnish |
the bulk and they are run into the ma-|

FELLOW 'S!

You'll always find a well-

equipped U-Drive-It Ford
at the right price at

Henderson’s Filling Station

DAVIDSON, N C.

aS a a a a OT aD OD OD OE DD a OD

(IIIT Ir rr

Drinks
Aust

In Statesville We Are Located
TO SERVE YOU

Candy
in Candy Shop

Statesville, N. C.

Smokes

| different languages—English, German, Italian
land Latin.
| have the approval of the church on his work,
so he sent a copy to the Pope, then Benedict
14th, accompanied by a letter in Latin, in
| which he gave expression to his firmness in
the faith.

thanks from the Pope, along with a note

from Cardinal Valenti, Secretary of State | J. B. Webb. (Capt. )

at the Vatican.

This ecclesiastical correspondence caused
| Racine ta believe the work important, so he
| made copies of the letters, and sent them,
| glued into a copy of “La Religion,’ to some
gentleman in Paris believed to be the royal
llibrarian. With this he sent an unpublished
inote containing his reasons for sending the
work and explains his sentiments concerning
the doctrine of the day.

By these actions we note that Racine
wished his correspondence with the Pope to
be preserved. In several of the 18th cen-
tury editions of the Poem the letters ex-
changed between Racine and Rome are print-
ed, but, unfortunately, in the standard edi-
tions of Racine’s Oeuvres by Lenormant in
1808, the correspondence so closely connected
with “La Religion’ does not accompany it.

Keep this in mind—Mission Institute
the latter part of April. C. Darby Fulton,
traveling secretary of the Presbyterian
Mission Board and Formerly a «mission-
lary to Japan, will conduct the meetings.
Pull with the Y in making this a success.

ine with someone else in charge. We
all know who runs the games, who must
be gotten rid of, if the games are lost.
In all college papers we find editorials as
to whether a certain individual should be
gotten rid of or retained next year. It
is easy to determine where the respon-

| sibility lies as to games, and the same

applies to studies. It is terribly hard to
get the young American to stand on his
own feet, either in intellectual matters
or other matters. All that is what we
have to do. We have got to insist that
the students take the lead, and if they

| want to study, they must do that them-

selves.

LAST CALL

Any member of the student body
who wishes to place cartoons in the
Sanity Rare” must have them in by
Saturday, March 12th. See Bob Platt
in 304 Watts. The magazine goes to
press on March 19th and all copy must
be edited and censored before this date.

All students who have other humor-
ous contributions are requested to hand
these in to Caldwell Withers at the
earliest possible moment.

THE BEST PLACE TO EAT ~

Brown’s Restaurant

17 S. Tryon St.

CHARLOTTE N. C.

WINDSTORMS

McALISTER CARSON (13) Mgr.

Racine wished very much to |

He then became very much. flat- |
jtered upon receiving a gracious letter of |

III III III II III IIIT IIIT III III III III III

Perhaps not today or tomorrow, but Weather Bureeu reccide
show that every section of the country has its windstorm sometime.

pays to carry enough Windstorm Insurance.
INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY

INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
( CHARLOTTE, N, C.

Sharpshooters End
Season This Week

The schedule of the Davidson rifle team
for the year 1927 is just about over. The
Fourth Corps Area match has been fired
and finished. However, at the time of this

|
writing, the results of the match have not

come out. The five high point men of the
| Davidson team for this match were:

Si Wie VabGesecaus seoulsGesesie Joo2e 3 1456
Pi ouly, ORAMSCY “eicaue ec oe Lele osuacs 1428
Nie blr GUOReE cveedavuc scoshsesccesees 1395
ios Be BWODD seconcsseeece oo UScoL ose 1392
\E. DmlbenhOn sulecusueacluuluscsooees 1355

| The reports of the matches between the
| different colleges have not all come in, so it
|is impossible at this time to even attempt to
| state. whether” or not Davidson has had a
successful year in the rifle team. The five
highest scorers of the Davidson team who
will be given their monogram by the R. O
T. C. Department are: :

Sia WiheValee: seeet ee ceco LS seal ees 2221
We Bie ebb? (Gift) cece. scccacs-sce. 2147
Je Mi GUuaper Lace Sel ieee oles cesses 2147
APR RAMSCY cocu see shou ee eu i, 2170
By DD mleennion, esecsecoea eae ese nes 2106

These five are now training for the final
match; the William Randolph Hearst trophy
match. This is open to all colleges having a
R. O. T. C. unit. The Davidson team should
do better in this match than in the previous
ones this year. This is the only one they
have had quite enough time in which to prac-
tice. Lieutenant Beckett has coached the
team this year and has done some good work
at it. The results of the matches will be
posted on the bulletin board in front of the
Armory as soon as they come in, Captain
Webb has set the date of March 15th as the
date on which all the firing must be finished
and sent to be compared with the others from
all over the country.

Greatly enthused over the success of the
fall series of meetings, the “Y” has planned
a great spring service. The speaker has been
chosen with care, and the “Y” officers are
confident that their choice has been g wise
one. The leader for these services will be
Dr. E. G. Gammon, of Selma, Ala., a well-
known preacher and speaker, a very capable
leader of men. There will be more announced
later about: these services.

SHOES FOR
DAVIDSONIANS

ILMER-MOORE
high quality, of course.
And they’re made for col-

lege men,---good looking,
well made, styles you men
like, the sort you always
prefer, hy comparison.

Gilmer-Moore
~ Company —

CHARLOTTE:

ARE COMING

It

LI

M. B. SPEIR, JR. ('26)
