: THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 239, 1927

Returns from Davidson-Florida
Game to be Wired Play by Play

Even though the Davidson student body |
will not be able to make such a long trip to|
see a football game as would be necessary to |
be present at the Davidson-Florida contest |
this week-end at Gainesville, Fla., the stu-
dents will be able to keep right up with the
game play-by-play. Just as has been done
many times before in similar cases, a special
telegraph wire has been leased in order to
have the play-by-play details of the game
brought to Davidson. These plays will be
shown on a large blackboard in the gym just
two or three minutes after the play is actually
executed on the field in Gainesville. Ernest |
Milton, the Alumni Secretary of the College, |
is going along with the team and will start
the messages on their 800-mile run, and in
two minutes after its start each play will be
diagramed on the board at the gym. *Of
course, this will be rather expensive, as this
is the biggest attempt of Davidson to bring
a football game to the boys back home, but
with the cost divided among a gym full of
Wildcat rooters, it will be very small to the
individual man. Those in charge figure that
if every one turns out, they can meet the
expense entailed by charging 50 cents admis-
sion to the gym. That means, though, that
the gym will have to be FULL, or someone
will lose money. If every man on the campus
Saturday afternoon gets a chair, goes to the
gym with his 50 cents, he will enjoy the
game in the way which is second best to ac-
tually being in the stand at Gainesville, and
he will encourage others to go to the gym,
besides developing his own school spirit.

The men in charge of the relay are giving
the students an opportunity which can not
always be had, and the money will go for
the actual expenses involved in getting the
special line. If there happens to be any
money over the expense bill, it will be held
for obtaining a wire for some future game
off the hill, The gamie will probably start at
3:00, Davidson time, and the meeting at the
gym is called for the same time.

The old: Wildcat has plenty of tough fights
on his hands this year, and now that he has
shown the Bulldog what stuff he is made of,
he’s going down to grapple with the Alligator
in his own waters. It’s a long, hard way to a
perfect season, and when the Wildcats trot
on the field Saturday, the odds-will be greatly
against-them and it will be a surprise to foot-
ball fans all over the South if Davidson

TUDOR HALL
FALL SUITS

$29.50 and $35

Styled from a

young man’s

point of
view

Tudor Hall designing and
fabrics: introduce you to
the higher standards of
College style, the prices
“never lead you into the
realms of higher mathe-

matics.

At a modest price Tudor
Hall offers excellent mod-
els for young men on and
off the campus. Many ex-
clusive weaves---the kind
you admire at first glance
and keep admiring as the

days go by.

Belk Bros. Co.

Where College Men Trade
Charlotte, N. C.

Pa

Good Features Secured
for Gym Picture Show
by Collegiate Manager

“Les Miserables,” “Thumbs Down,”
and “What Price Glory” to be

Shown ;

The coming three weeks will bring to the
Y. M. C. A. movies, or “Gym movies,” as it
is most popularly known, a trio of shows

| that will be of a great interest to every Da-
| Vidson student. An expert mechanic has put

the machine in ideal shape and as soon as
Charlie Albright and his “Serenaders’” are
ready for a public appearance there will be
music at every show.

This Saturday “Jeff” Garrison, the man-
ager, will put on the first of the trio: Victor
Hugo’s Les Miserables, directed by Carl
Laemmle, which should be of special interest
to French students.

Then, on October 8th, a stirring picture
about the struggle of a poor girl against the
sneers of society leaders: “Thumbs Down,”
an Arther C. Bromberg attraction featuring
Lois Boyd, and Creighton Hale, who was so
popular in “Annie Laurie” and “The Cat and
Canary.” Here’s where love and society
come into conflict, when a beautiful typist,
of a big city, falls in love with a’ wealthy
young man and refuses to marry him because
of the social difference. That young man
is Creighton Hale, as Richard Hale, and the
girl is Lois Boyd, as Helen Stanton. Hale’s
aristocratic’ mother is indignant that he
should marry Helen instead of the so¢iety
leader, Marion Ames, Mrs. Hale’s ward.

should win. The ’Gators are expecting an
easy victory, but as the student body well
knows, when they leave the field, whether
victorious or not, they will realize that the
Wildcats can’t be run over very easily,

COX RELATES GRAPHIC STORY

(Continued from page 1)
that he experienced his most difficulty. The
Chinese boys said that anyone who would
play a game like that were either very tough
or else they were fools. But on the whole
the Chinese are adopting the American way
of doing things.

The really serious part of Warren’s talk
dealt with the. Chinese student's outlook on
life. “The attitude of the average Chinese
student is much different from what it is in
America,” Warren said. Here in the United
States one is sure that he can fit into the
economic scheme of things and be certain
that he can earn a livelihood. But such is
not the way in China at the present time.
There are so many people in China for the
jobs to be had, that when the educated Chi-
nese student wishes to get a job,’ sofeone
else must be crowded out. That is one phase
that the Chinese boy faces when he finishes
his education,

In China a student can go to school for a
whole year on only $150. That seems a very
small sum to Americans, but it is a lot of
money to a Chinese when the present scale
——U~~~lC*"OEh»™!_hn!=_=—_—s=—=—=—

Hale is indignant about the whole situation.
He practically forces Helen to marry him.
His mother is terribly shocked, but she soon
gets used to shocking situations as the social
inequality causes a lot of trouble. Horror-
struck, they find that Helen is from a family
with a criminal stain upon it. But at last it
is found that the family had been wronged,
and Helen and Richard are united again. In-
terest and action as predonimant throughout.

The last of the trio, but far from the least,
is the great Fox production: “What Price
Glory,” featuring almost the same cast as in
“The Big Parade.” This great war scene
has gained the foremost rangs in the moving
picture world and everyone that has not al-
ready seen it should not fail to do so.

These shows are put on by the Y. M. C, A.
for the benefit of the students. No profit
comes from them, but there is a great deal
of expense attached, and the continuance of
these pictures is only made possible by a
united support of the students. It is hoped
that every student will do his bit.

of wages is taken into consideration. To go
to school a Chinese boy must work very

‘hard, and the result that comes forth is near-
ly always a question: “Is this education that
I am getting really worth what I am paying

_for it?” Of course, the mission schools in
China are doing great work, but nevertheless
the Chinese boy experiences a very hard time

‘in getting an education. A Chinese boy

imakes one of the most diligent students
known. A Chinese student realizes the dif-
ficulty under which he is working and there-
fore puts forth his best efforts in the class
|room. If a student in a Chinese school does

| not pass his work, his failure is dug to mental
| incapacity and not to laziness, That is quite
different from some of our American schools.

China today is in a state of turmoil and
instability.” It is the student element that is
carrying on a great deal of activity in the

Nationalistic ranks. When a Chinese student
gains a view of his country’s condition, of
its relations with other nations, he naturally
takes on the attitude of Nationalism and
wants to see his native land on an equal
status with other nations. To the older Chi-
nese, with their time-worn customs, there
lacks the enthusiasm that pervades the young-
er element. The average older Chinese does
not really know what any faction ih China is
fighting for and therefore exhibits a great
deal of passiveness. The hope of Chiné is
in the student.class. No one of us in Amer-
ica would dream of taking the responsibility
of our nation’s government immedately upon
our leaving college, but such is the situation
that faces the Chinese student. This is in a
brief way the present, state of affairs.

First Practice of

Glee Club Monday

The Glee Club of this year promises to be
one of the best that Davidson College has
ever produced. Under the capable direction
of Prof. E. J. Cullum, the club is gradually
assuming shape. :

More than 50 men have been temporarily
assigned to the first club, and with this start,
Professor Cullum will easily be able to secure
the 40 men who are to comprise the club.

John Foster, the president of the club, and
Ed Douglas, the business manager, have been
working hard to help Professor Cullum select
his men, and with about 20 men from last
year’s club, to start on, the Prospects for the
1927 Glee Club seem unusually bright. The
first practice was held Monday night.

A-machine for converting corn into
sugar in ten hours has been developed.

~—=[=_—_—_

In coriclusion, Warren said that he was
greatly criticized for his going to China im-
mediately after his graduation. “But,” he
said, “the opportunity that I had to observe
life and to get new ideas was worth it. With
the knowledge that one gets in school plus.
the experience that one gets while having to
think things out for himself in a far-away
land is helpful to anyone.” As an end to his
talk, Warren advised all those who had op-
portunities to go to the Orient as he did to
take advantage of them.

MAKE US YOUR HEADQUARTERS

It is our ambition to know

each of the boys personally

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

DAVIDSON, N. C.

Somebody Is Always Taking the Joy Out of Life :

. By BRIGGS

THE PRETTIEST GIRL you GveR
SAW ARRIVES AT A VACATION

AFTER YOU ARE INTRODUCED,
You FIND OUT HER AUNT SOPHIE

AFTER A WHOLE WEEK YOU
FIND THE OPPORTUNITY TO

RESORT AND You MAKE uP
YouR MIND You MUST KNOW
HER. :

1S ALWAYS AROUND AND NEVER
LETS THE GIRL OUT OF HER SIGHT.

NN

6B.

4
“et

4

AND SHE SWOOPS THROUGH THE
SUMMER HOUSE, BUT MISSES You
IN THE DARKNESS, UNTIL— You
SUDDENLY COUGH AND SPOIL
EVERYTHING

CHARGE, GOES SCOUTING
OVER THE PREMISES FOR HER

— _
—aes

—=s

wb

i

is ICD Ac a 2 ae

...-not a cough in a carload

OLD GOLD

The Smoother and Better Cigarette

© 1921, P. Lorillard Co,, Bet. 1768

PERSVADE THE SWEET YOUNG
CREATURE TO SIT OUT IN THE

SUMMER HOUSE (OR PERGOLA) AND
WATCH _THE MOON RISE

_—-

AND THE GIRL CUTS You OFF
HER LIST BECAUSE YOU DON'T
SMOKE OLP GOLD

(ike

