10

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 14, 1927

Faculty Members
to Renew Studies

Next year four of the younger members
of the Davidson faculty will tempor-
arily leave this institution for the pur-
pose of more fully preparing themselves
for their future work at Davidson. They
are only on a leave of absence and all will
return after completing their special
ing. The places left vacant by them wil
be filled by new members of the faculty.

The men who are leaving are Prof. A. V.
Goldiere, Prof. J. H. Davis, Prof. E. A.

Beatty, and Prof. J. C. Bailey.

Prof. Goldiere will renew his studies of

modern languages in the Romance De-
partment of the Yale Graduate School.
For the past five years he has taught
Spanish and French at Davidson.
Professor Davis, of the Biology Depart-
ment, will continue his studies in Botany
at the University of Chicago. Professor
Davis took his M.A. at Davidson in the
school year '23-'24, went to the Univer-
sity of Chicago, and returned to Davidson
as a member of the Faculty last year.
Professor Beatty leaves the English
Department to go to Columbia University
where he will make further in
Latin. . After fifteen months of work
there he will return to Davidson to take
the place of Dr. Grey whom the Board of
Trustees have recently retired.
Professor Baily, on a leave of absence
for a year, will study Greek and Latin

studies

at John Hopkins University. While at
Johns Hopkins he will work with the
Ph.D. in mind; towards which he has

already done much work, He will return
and take Dr. Harding’s position in the
Greek Department.
a

Professor Bailey is
recent graduate of Davidson. While
here in school he was Editor-in-Chief of

the Davidsonian and a members
O. D. K.

of

Interesting Relic Left
of Old Medical School

Remains of Boiling Vat Lies Below
Atheltic Field .

Few students of Davidson know any-
thing of the boiling vat which lies below
the athletic field. It is almost the only
remaining relic of the Medical School
which was and which so
many of the leading doctors of the South
attended. It south of the athletic
field, half way between it and the home
of Mayor Hamilton. Only about four
feet wide and cight feet long it would
present a sorry spectacle were it not for

located here

lies

the touches of the imagination. Who
. % ;

knows how many bodies were boiled

there, how many flesh bare skeletons

have been taken out after a day or two of
cooking? Filled first with alcohol, it was
loaded with as many as three corpses
which were then boiled in order that the
skeletons might be secured.

The dissecting house, which was near

NEW OFFICERS OF Y. M. C. A.
INSTALLED SUNDAY EVENING

The “Y” Vesper service Sunday was Soph Presidential
given over to the installation of the new Election is Close

officers and cabinet. After the song I

service fas christi he retiring z ; ; ay.
Biba AAT Sah ARAL ATF i 8 The election of president for the rising
| president, addressed the audience and

fi “ ive 0 » class has been running close
the new officers. After a retrospective Sophomore class s g A

ithe “Y” of the future be an association | 7.4, Long and “Doe” Henderson were the
| of Youth, of Men, of Christians and that jones remaining in the running early Tues-
}it be an Association in the full meaning !

}of the word, He then welcomed the new | At a meeting of the Freshman class last
| president, Charley McRae.

; f week, a nominating committee of five
McRae gave an inspiring talk in the ac-| men was elected for the purpose of select-
ceptance of his office. He first addressed

ing candidates for the presidency of the

morning.

{the old cabinet, stating that although) Qja5,° The nominating committee con-
| they were unconscious otf the fact, they cited of Zeb Long, Tom Brohardt, Reid

j had been of great service to the Davidson
|student body and that it was his hope
/that that zeal for service might continue
| with them throughout their whole life.
|He then thanked them in behalf of the
student body for their untiring effort
during he past year.

He accepted the office with a full con-
sciousness of the responsibility and the
opportunity that was his and a realization
lof the big place that the “Y” has played
lin the lives of the mén’ of Davidson and

| the still greater place it can take in the

Brown, Dick Reynolds and Matthews.
These men nominated Nunan, Murray
Christian, Carl Pritchett, and “Doc” Hen-
derson. Others were nominated from
the floor. On the first balloting, the votes
were so close that only one man, the low-
est, could be eliminated. This was also
the case on the second and third days of
the election, The results Tuesday morn-
ing showed Pritchett, Long and Hen-
derson the lead. The final
balloting will be between these three men.

Allan Frew, the retiring president of

bunched in

future. Knowing the noble purposes and the class of ’30, conducted the election.
principles ble which the Y. M. C. A.) Frew, in retiring , has written personal
was organized and realizing the great letters to every member of his class
| possibility of further development and) thanking them for the splendid co-opera-
usefulness he pledged himself to put} tion given the present officers

forth every effort to make the “Y” a

The election of the vice-president and
the secretary of the class will be held im-
mediately after the election of the presi-
dent. The duties of the Secretary and

more powerful influence in the life of Da-
vidson men than ever before.

The then turned his address to the new
members of the cabinet. He told them
that they had been chosen upon a basis

; j ey enne: } he failings and successes of the old only three men_ being eliminated after
courses in the higher institutions of learn- | of t See |

1 cabinet duringthe past year he said that | three days of balloting. Carl Pritchett,)

Treasurer of next “year’s class will be| CAMPUS OVERHAULED
largely in the hands of the Treasurer. | (Continued from page 7)

Plans have already been made by the| this spring at a considerable expense to
class toward providing’ for the expenses} the college. In the bare spots about the
of their Junior Week. At a recent meet-| campus new grass has been planted. Be-
ing of the class, a motion that each mem-| cause of the co-operation of the students
ber be assessed a dollar was unanimously | in keepnig off the campus and on the
passed, Tuesday has been named as the)
day for the paying of this volunteer as-
sessment.

Old Chambers Bell was

walks and paths as much as possible, the
| eras now shows a marked improvement
lover its appearance this time last year.:
One of the most pleasing improvements
in the general appearance of the college
is the new sod around Chambers Build-

Partly Melted in Heat Bates renga ree ie eee aie
Before Disastrous Fire

| completely bare last year and is now one
of the prettiest plots on the campus. The
|ground between the gymnasium and the
Hon. Brevard McDowell Donated wailed field has been graded and cover-
Splendid Bell ed over with a/layer of rich soil. It is
aE ae |now ready tobe sown with grass, and

will be in good shape by next year.
Taking all in all, the beauty of the
campus has been greatly improved since
the beginning of this year by human and
natural influences. At this time of year
when the outside appearance of the col-
lege shows up best, the campus puts on a
pleasing aspect to the visitor and student

ASTHMA

|
|
|
|
|
|

courts.

The old college bell, which hung in the
belfry in Old Chambers Building, tolled
for the last time, after fifteen genera-
tions of faithful service, on the morning |
of November 18, 1921. The fire which
destroyed Chambers building melted parts
of the bell and caused the rest to be
broken into bits when it fell.

For some time following the fire, the
shrieks of a steam whistle attached to!
the room of the Commissary (now re- ;

vised to the Student Store) aroused
slumbering students, blew its pleasant There is no “cure,” but
notes for meals and marked the class the wheezy breathing
hours. This however, got out of order

that prevents sleep may
oftentimes be relieved by
inhaling the soothing
medicated vapors of—

ICKS

VapoRus

Over 17 Million Jare Used Yearly

so often that it was found necessary. to
substitute a train bell. This worked ad-
mirably for a time but the need of a
larger and better bell was strongly felt. |
Hon. Brevard McDowell, of Charlotte,
saw the pressing need and donated to the
college the splendid bell which it now
The gift, a memorial to the
(Continued on page 12)

possesses.

of their upright Christian character and
of their ability to carry out the work in-
trusted to them. He asked cach man to
realize his individual responsibility and
to be aware of the privileges which were
his and to make the best of them.

In conclusion McRae directed his: talk
to the student body. He thanked them
|for the faith they had shown in him in
choosing him for the presidency and he
said that in return he had a great faith
in them; that he believed that they would
support the Y. M. C. A. even more whole-
| heartedly than they had done in the past.
He said that the great longing of his
heart was that the Y. M. C. A. might be
a potent factor in producing*the ultimate

aim, namely, that we be men of religious
conviction, knowing Jesus as an eternal
Saviour, saving us not only from an ever-
lasting death but saving us for service in!
this life. To this end he committed him-
self. :

Professor Fleagle of the faculty then
a talk, the main theme of which was Stu-
dent Support of the Y. M. C. A®He said
that the Y. M. M.A. is the most democratic !
organization which we have upon the cam-
pus and cited examples to prove the state-
ment. He said, however, that it had a

|
|
; el
republican formo f government and in
That is that we!

the vat, was torn down when the au-|that lay its weakness.
(Continued on page 12) (Continued on page, 11)
[a1 —. rrr 3

SPR

gone into the college
We

than ever before.

Trade St.

Crore

Calls for clothing to ‘match. We have this year

man’s needs---we have endeavored to meet them.

Come in and look our line over.

VOGUE CLOTHING CO.

‘I

ING |

trade more extensively

have studied the college

CHARLOTTE, N. C..

Are you absolutely sure you are

your garage ?
INDEPENDENCE
INSURANCE
McALISTER CARSON ('13) Mgr.

HOW LONG HAS IT BEEN SINCE YOU
CHECKED UP ON YOU . INSURANCE?

present value of your property? How about your home, your personal belong-
ings, your place of business, your stock of merchandise, your automobile,

Let this agency help you determine your insurance values.

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

protected—that your policies cover the

TRUST COMPANY
DEPARTMENT

M. B. SPEIR, JR. ('26)

Post rrrrtr rt rrr r rr rr rr rrr rrr rrr

BRAEBURN’S

-All-Collegiate ...

is all that the name implies... . a style determined by
college men,
know their likes and dislikes, from fabrics specially de-
signed by Braeburn for that exclusive purpose.

made for college men by expert tailors who

And. the price is well within
the bounds of the college
man’s clothes budget.

$35 to $50 |
| M ELLON’S

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

