THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 14, 1927

7

Court of Control

Grants Plea

of Freshmen to Abandon Caps

Following the precedent set in former
years, the Court of Control announced
last’ Friday, the 8th, that the freshmen
would be allowed to take off their fresh-
15th,

set a precedent for other

man caps on April The present
Court also
Courts to follow in that it has allowed
this change to be permanent. This is the
first time in the history of the “fresh
cap” that the freshmen have been per-
mitted to remove the caps this early in
the year, although formerly it has been

the custom to let the freshmen take off}

their caps during the Easter Holidays.

This is the second regulation that has
been removed from the freshmen this
year. The first was taken off shortly aft-
ter the Christmas holidays, it was to al-
low the freshmen to walk on the path
that leads from Chambers Building to the
Post Office, this regulation was not im-
posed upon the freshmen at the start of
the year, but owing to the failure of the
Class of ’30 to comply with the orders
of the Court of Control it was put upon
them early in December.

According to “Abe” Lincoln, Judge of
the Court of Control, it is a good thing.
He says, “Personally, I believe that it is
a good move, it shows. progressiveness
and broadminedness. Also the cap has
out-grown its usefulness, it served its pur-
pose in the fall which was to help the
upper-classmen to recognize the fresh-
men and to help the freshmen know each
other and to build up a class spirit.”

The reprieve starts on Friday morn-
ing, April 15th. On this date the fresh-
man may legally remove his cap without
fear of getting a yellow cap instead,
However, despite the removal of the cap
the freshman is still a freshman and sub-
ject to be turned up fér the weekly meet-
ing of the Court, which will still have the
power to punish the offending freshman
4th a yellow cap and a few hours of
walkingy

This move came as the result of a
petition place before the Court of ‘Con-
trol by the Freshman Class just before
Mid-Term Exams. The petition was held
under consideration and was grantéd
largely because the fresh class has tried
to co-operate with the Court by abiding
by its regulations and has done so to such
an extent that very few yellow caps have
been given since Christmas.

At the meeting of the Court of Con-
trol held Monday night the regulation re-
garding the removal of the fresh caps
was amended to say that the freshmen
must have their caps “Soph Day” and
wear them all day on that date.

Campus Now Being
Given Overhauling

The college authorities have certainly
done their share in meeting halfway the

successful attempts of Spring to make the
| Davidson: College campus oné of the most
j beautiful in the South.

For the past few
and local workers have
been busy on the campus, working on the
trees and grass and grading here and
there, preparatory for sodding. In short,
everything possible is being done to make
the campus more charming and appealing
to the, sense of beauty. Visualize New
Chambers completed and you will have
an institution comparable and even su-
perior in appearance to any of its size
and means.

weeks experts

Experts have been employed by the
college to literally overhaul the trees and
get them in good shape for the spring and

and summer months. These tree sur-
geons have hollowed out the dead por-
tions of many of the larger trees and

treated them to insure against further
decay and destruction by insects. The
dead branches and larger limbs which
were not only unsightly but dangerous
have ‘been cut down and hauled away.
The trees have been fertilized also. Thus
their appearance has been improved di-
rectly by pruning and indirectly by the
use of the concentrated fertilizer. In this
process holes are bored in large circles
around the trees and the fertilizer fed to
them in this manner.

The grass has also been fertilized twice

(Continued on page 10)

Davidson Journals

_ Originated in 1884

Probably in the’ minds of us there is

an idea that The Davidsonian is a first

attempt at college journalism here, mere-
twelve-year-old idea. This is an
error. The Davidsonian is just the fruit
of what was conceived when many of us
were just seeing the light of day.

The College Library contains college
magazines going further back than the

ly a

first paper which we have on record. The
earliest college publication that we have
on record is that of “The Davidson Gol-
lege Enterprise,’ Volume 1, Number 27,
of February, 1884. There is not a com-
plete file of this and there is this one
number only.

“The Davidson College Enterprise” was
edited by R. G. Sparrow. He lived in Da-
vidson, and before he entered college he

If anyjedited this paper independently and _ it

Juniors To Contest For
Medal in Shearer Hall
During Forenoon Friday

McKnight, Dillard, O’Neill, and
Dubose Plan to Take Part in
Oratorical Contest

The annual Junior Speaking contest will
be held Shearer
Hall. Last year the contest was won by
Harllee Branch, whose subject was “The
Newer South.

Four Juniors have signified their in-
tention of entering, with more to follow.
These men are Tyree Dillard, John Mc-
Knight, Clisby Dubose, and Camp O'Niell.

tomorrow morning in

along forensic lines, and a lively contest
is assured,

Tyree Dillard, Chairman of the Ora-
torical Committee, has made quite a name
for himself in forensic circles. During
his Freshman year he was a member of
the Freshman team, debating against
Carolina here. He is a member of the
Alpha Phi Epsilon forensic fraternity.
His subject is to be
mind,”

Camp O'Neill has selected Caterpillar
Communism as the subject for his oration.
This is to include a brief history of the
divisions of Communism illustrated in an
analysis of the life of the

The International

caterpillar,

“Y”’ Notes |

The Y service during Junior Speaking

will be held at the regular time on Sun-)|
day evening, but will be a special Easter |
service, with special music, and held out-|
doors, probably in the Stadium, . This)

will be a very unusual sort of meeting and
one that will be of interest to every one. |
So don’t miss this one, because you'll,
certainly enjoy it.

Y——

The installation service last Sunday]
was a very impressive and pretty service. |
The old officers pledged the incoming of- |
ficers to always keep the Y. M. C. A.;
really a young man’s Christian associa-

All of these men have had experience }.

tion, and the new cabinet and president |
| pledged their allegiance to the Y in all |
lits interests, and declared their intentions |
to make the Y a more important part of
| the life of Davidson men than ever be-|
fore. So the Y is ready to start another |
|year of service and inspiration, with the)

|new officers eager to begin their work, |

Last year O'Neill held the position of al-
ternate in the debate against the Univer-
|sity of Pittsburgh.

| DuBose and McKnight have had ex-
perience along these lines, and all of the
contestants have worked hard on the ora-|
tions. This part of the Junior Speaking
‘is sure to be a success. :

aided by the example of the retiring: cab-~ -
inet, and backed to the limit by the en-
tire student body.

Professional Notices

Phones: Office, 588---Residence, 65-J

r
DR. VANCE HASTY
DENTIST
Anderson Building, Court Street Entrance Com-
me cial National Bank Building
STATESVILLE, N. C.

Hours: Daily 8:to 5. Evenings 7 to9. Sundays
12 to 2

: DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN
DENTIST
te $12, 313, 314 and 315 Professional Building
Charlotte, N. C.
‘Phones: Office 5050. Residence, 1937-3

‘Dr. J. R. BELL }

DENTIST
Knox Bldg. Hours 8:30-5

DAVIDSON, N. C.

«
«
«
«
«
«
«
e

freshman is unable to produce his fresh| had no connection whatever with the
cap he will be compelled to wear a fresh! student body as to its being financed by
cap for the rest of the year. During Jun-/-the college. Mr. Sparrow is thought by
ior Week the freshmen will be allowed to! some to have been the most brilliant man
walk on the grass but_this privilege will | of any that ever left Davidson. When
be rescinded automatically with the re-|he entered college the publication of the
sumption of classes Wednesday morning. | paper was suspended. It is said that he
|translated Latin and Greek almost
| fluently as we do English.

as
JUNIOR PUBLICATION
aeenaee This publication was a four-page, four-
(Continued from page 1) column, twelve-inch sheet. It was written
sometimes with unfortunate results, and es- | in good style. There are some fillers and
tablishment of the magazine as a permanent | there is wit and humor to make it well
institution gives it a background and a tra-| balanced. His‘idea is a necessity of to-
dition which it would not otherwise have. |day “that every graduate should sub-
Printing of the magazine has been done en- | scribe.” As to the life of the paper we
tirely by Charlotte firms, having been di- know nothing except that it existed until
vided between the Queen City Printing Co., February, 1884. We can surmise that it
the Charlotte Engraving Co., and the Bier- | editor or rather editors, under the super-
man Engraving Co. (Continued on page 8)

Hitting Features Work of 1924 Team

|

(oor

| W. E. PRICE

‘

| 30 W. Sth St.
tL

WHEN Greek or calculus gets you into a tight
corner, tie a tin to trouble—a tidy red tin of

Prince Albert! Tamp a load of -this really
friendly tobacco into the bowl of your jimmy-
pipe and light up. Watch the sun crash through
the clouds with every puff!

P. A. can’t bite your tongue or parch your
throat, no matter how fast you feed it, because
the Prince Albert process gave Bite and Parch
the air at the start. Cool as a Laplander’s lap.
Sweet as apple cider. Fragrant as spring blos-
soms. That’s Prince Albert!

One pipe-load invites another. And...

you can hit P. A. from morning till midnight
and it won’t hit back. Don’t put off to tomorrow
what you can smoke today. Get a tidy red tin
of P. A. and turn on the sunshine . , . now!

 PRINGE ALBERT

—no other tobacco is like it!

. Reynolds Tobacco
inston-Salem, N. C.

auee

P.A. is sold everywhere in
tidy red tins, pound and half-
pound tin humidors, and
pound crystal-glass humidors
with sponge-moistener top.
And always with every bit
of bite and parch removed by
the Prince Albert process.

]

= rrr rir iti rrr
SO

W. E. PRICE INSURANCE AGENCY

“PROTECTION PLUS SERVICE”

= 7 owe:
LLL LLL LD LL LLL LLL LL LL LL LLL LLL LL

rr)

R. L. PRICE

Tre.

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

