THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 17, 1927

COMMON CAMPUS FALLACY IS
DISPROVED BY DOCTOR SMITH

According to the sixth chapter of
“Your Biggest Job, School or Business,”
a manual for. students, published by D.
Appleton & Co., the oft repeated and
widely-believed statement that the man
who leads his classe in college is gener-
ally a failure in after life, is a danger-
ous campus fallacy.

Dr. Henry Louis Smith, former Presi-
dent of Davidson College, in a pamphlet
issued by the Washington and Lee Uni-
versity, prints this untrue tradition which
is sweetened with a little truth and flav-
ored with counterfeit logic:

“To attain success in the fierce war-
fare of modern business demands pluck,
self-confidence, red-blooded vitality, and
a knowledge of men and things, rather
than book-learning and abstract scholar-
ship. In fact, the students who make the
very highest grades are not so apt to win
promotion and success in later life as
their wiser comrades who refuse to spend
more time in study than is necessary to
make reasonably fair grades, and 4re
thereby enabled to participate more vigor-
ously in the social and athletic activities

of the playground and campus.” .
To the lazy and self-indulgent, to the
social dudes and _ tin-horn sports and

overgrown children, to all who long to
study less and play more, says Dr. Smith,
this theory is as fascinating as poisoned
candy in a kindergarten. It not only ex-
cuses neglect of duty but crowns the
loafer as a man of far-seeing wisdom.
What wonder, asks Dr. Smith, that in
many student circles it is a most ques-
tioned part of the college creed and cam-
pus opinion looks down with mingled
pity and contempt on “Studies,” “digs,”
“grinds,” and “scholastic cranks.”

The truth is that those who outstrip
their indolent or brainless competitors in
college continue to do so when college
days are over, and to win high. scholar-
ship honors in a first-class college is al-
Most a guarantee of success in life. To
Prove this statement Dr. Smith cites
one of many impartial investigations.

In 1911, Dr. Paul Van Dyke made a
careful study of scholarship records and
future history of nearly 0,000 graduates
of five typical colleges to see how many
of them had attained such prominence as
to Be placed in “Who's Who,” a list of
distinguished Americans published an-
nually by Marquis & Co., of Chicago. Mr.
Van Dyke's study of the Harvard records
covered 13 successive senior classes,
numbering 2,229 men, of whom only 75
won the very highest scholarship honors.
Of these 75, 59 were living in 1911 and 27
of them were listed in’ Who’s Who of that
year, about one in two.

At Yale the senior classes numbered
2,132. with 102 first honor men, of whom
the 80 living in 1911 furnished 31 of the
Who's Who list. The seniors of Prince-
ton, Amherst and Brown University also
showed about the same Percentage. Thus
from 7,979 men representing the men of
different universities four per cent (348)
were singled out by their having attained
high honors. Omitting 79 of this four
per cent who were at that time still too
young to hope to attain distinction one-
half of the men were on the Who’s Who
list which contains only one-fifty-fifth
per cent of the population of the land.

To sum it up from another point of
view: The man who graduates with the
highest of scholastic honors, instead of
being unfitted for success by his extra
“book-learning” is about seven times as

‘likely to become a distinguished man
than the “all-round man” who receives
his diploma with him. In this age of
mind, as never before, knowledge is pow-

HAIRCUT?

WE GIVE
PROMPT
AND
SATISFACTORY
SERVICE

NORTON’S

BARBER SHOP

Biology Club Honor
Issued to Six Men

eostic.and6Cuil‘ nwar fathrdetaoishr ddtdt

The Biology Club recently extended
bids to the following students: F. D.
Daniel, T. T. Jones; J. W. Melton, J. M.
Sample, W. K. Forbes, G. H. McSwain.
These men were selected for this honor
because of their scholarship and and gen-
eral interest in biological research, how-
ever they must write a paper on some ap-
proved subject relating to Biology that
will be accepted by a committee appointed
by the club. The subject may be chosen
from a list of topics furnished by the
club. Most of the members are Juniors
and Seniors who have taken several
courses in Biology.’ The purpose of the
Biology Club is to increase the interest
in Biology and the knowledge of that
science. It is one of the 12 honorary
fraternities at Davidson. It is now striv-
ing for national recognition.

He—“What do you do when you are
kissed?

She—“TI yell.”

He—“Would you yell if I kissed you?”

She—“No, I’m still hoarse from last
night.—Blue Gator.

A man is drunk when he feels sophis-
ticated and can’t pronounce it—Denison
Flamingo.

Dr. John Wilson MacConnell, ’02, was a
recent speaker at the Armistice celebra-
tion at Mooresville, N. C.

—ooooIyIy_— Ii __—]~—~l——  ] "===
er, and the man who knows is the man
who leads.

Thus the author has pointed out with
conclusive proof that the star student,
as current falsehood would have it, does
not make a failure in the world.

Current Issue of “The

New Ave” Praises Work
of “Old Clothes Lady”

Mrs. Mary Martin Sloop Com-
mended for Sacrifice

FOUNDS CROSSNORE SCHOOL

Thriving Community is Result of
Sale of Old Clothes Contributed
by Friends

In the current isste of The New Age,
is a story which will be of special inter-
est to the students of Davidson College.
It tells of the splendid sacrificial work
being done in a section of western North
Carolina mountains by Mrs. Mary Martin
Sloop, who is the sister of Dr. W.. J.
Martin, president of Davidson College.

In 1913, Mrs. Sloop, now lovingly known
to the mountain people as the “old clothes
lady,” went to Crossnore, a little moun-
tain settlement, which according to the
sensus, then had but 23 inhabitants. This
little place in the heart of the hills was,
before her coming, inaccessible and back-
ward, but it is now a thriving progressive
community with a $50,000 school plant,
two churches, a post office, electric lights,
a co-operative cheese factory, good roads,
a community club, a ball-ground, an da
trained nurse. These conditions which
are such a marked improvement over
those prevailing when Mrs. Sloop went to
Crossnore, have all been brought about
with the sale of old clothes. Mrs. Sloop
received these cast-off garments from
friendly helpers from all over the coun-
try, and selling them to the people, she
uses the proceeds to build schools and to
better living conditions.

This plan originated when Mrs. Sloop
sold some old clothes sent to her by Bos-
ton friends in order to send a young girl
off to school. The system has grown
and has been the power behind the bet-
tered conditions, of the Crossnore people.

FOOTBALL FOLLOWERS FLOCK -
_TO FAVORITE. FIELDS OF FIRE .

While the Wildcats were losing the
state football championship for 1927, the
old back lot of the armory was turning
out its stars for next year’s championship
team. Campus football is now in the be-
ginning of its season, provided the old
football holds out for a few more weeks.

Among the old college traditions will
stand campus football. It is the system
of passing, catching, and touching. Four
downs are allowed one team to make the
length of the field, and a drop kick from
any position counts a point, if kicked
over the opponents goal-line. Such is the
technique of the age-old game handed
down, perhaps, from the Romans, direct-
ly to our dear boys at Davidson College.
The game mystifies, and “tearifies” even
the hardest and best dressed.

A little more advanced than last year's
game, it has besides the individual stars,
a team that claims to be the champions

Last year 400 children were taught in
the school; 80 were enrolled in the high
school, and seven of the ten who grad-
uated are now in college. The boys and
girls after the second year, pay their way
through college. They learn their prac-
tical trades there that will make them
fitted for worth while lives.

v Le ‘
of the school, defeating everyone and
ready to meet all comers.

Some of the individual stars may feel
a little slighted, but it would hardly do

to leave out a few names who appear in
“Snooks” . Kil-
gore, the redoubtable, a passer unexcelled

in the game; Hal Johnson, a student and
a flashy captain of one team or the other;
McGavock, who slings his passes with the
accuracy of his marksmanship in the
gym; Bud Guthery, conspicuous for his
height and the fact that he is a lengthy
stepper; and Frontis Johnson, whose
nimbleness converts wild flings from his
team-mates into points. Nothing daunts
these fearless men, and they believe in,
“nothing ventured, nothing won.”

The “All-Stars,” undefeated, have met
and vanquished two teams by decisive
scores. They took Moore's flashes into
camp for a 35-6 win in their first game.
They have also defeated the Wonders 74-
12, The All-Stars, who will meet all chal-
lengers, have a line-up as follows: Ends,
DeCamp and $mith; tackles, Kilgore and
Pepper; guards, Rusk and Moffatt; cen-
ter, Lafferty; quarterback, Martin; full-
back, Gardner; halfback, Frontis John-
son; and halfback, Bill McGavock (C).

the line-up quite often:

CHARLOTTE
KNOXVILLE

The
S &-W Cafeterias

. are catering to you

(ATLANTA Soon)

ASHEVILLE
RALEIGH

$

y

~ Chesterfield
smokers dont change

r)

with the fashions

