o

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 20, 1927

a

-- Sport Talk -:-

News and Views of
Wildcat Events

If anyone has had any fears about whether
or not Dick Grey will come up to his for-
mer self this year on the gridiron, those fears
should be gone now. What could we ask of
him more than he did Saturday against the
Elon Christians? He broke through for
long gains consistently, and it looked like he
just couldn't be stopped at all. The ‘Wildcats
gained altogether 512 yards, and of this
number Captain Grey gained 290. He made
two of the three extra points and seems to
have gotten that famous toe of his back into
shape again. It hasn’t gotten Started good in
the Florida game and in the othertwo games;
but just watch those extra points and field
goals mount up from now on.

The other backfielders, especially Wilson,
Nisbet, and Harrison, also played an unusual
game. Or rather, it would be unusual for
most players, but for these three it was just
what they've been doing the whole year. Har-

By Raymond Lake i

Davidson Holds. Edge on
Deacons in Games Won

Wildcats Have Won Ten Out of |
Fifteen Games

—__— |

Football elevens of Davidson College and |
Wake Forest, which meet in a great gridiron
classic at the World War Memorial Stadium |
in Greensboro next Saturday, have met upon |
a football field 15 times within the last 19/
years, the two institutions failing to play four
years during that period.

The Davidson Wildcats have emerged vic- |
torious in ten of the battles, scoring 272)
points for an average of 17 a game, while the |
Demon Deacons have won twice, with a total |
of 70 points for the 15 games, an average of |
less than five for an encounter. Three of the |

rison and Nisbet made long gains, as is their | mixups have been ties, all of them having oc-

custom, and Wilson ran the team in his usual

calm and consistent style. Wilson’s playing |

is never spectacular, but his place will be
mighty hard to’ fill when his time is up. A
calm head, an exceptional passing ability, and
a fair ground gaining power make him one
of the mainstays of the team.

Tn the line, Melton was the outstanding
player. Laws, both McConnels, and all the
other linemen did their pért in grand style,
but Melton’s work was especially outstand-
ing. He kept up the old Wildcat fight, and
.at the same time broke through and threw
the opposing backs for losses. The Elon
backs couldn’t make a thing through the line.
They had to resort to passes. It was their |
only hope, and it proved to be no more than |
a hope. They had several good plays and
some of their passes almost scored a touch-
down for them, but the Wildcats wouldn’t let
them put it over.

In this column last week we spoke of the
danger of the Wildcats becoming overconfi-
dent. Well, it seems that they don’t do that.
They fought and pulled together just as well
in the Elon game Saturday as if they had
been fighting Carolina or Duke or one of the
other Big Five teams for the State Cham-
pionship. As we said last week, if Monk
and Tex can’t keep them from getting over-
confident, it just can’t be done. After they
beat Wake Forest this week in Greensboro,
they'll fight just as hard against State as if
they had suffered an overwhelming defeat.
We don’t know what Monk tells them, but
whatever it is'it surely does do the work.

In predicting the victory over Wake For-
est, we do not mean in any way to belittle
the strength of the Wake Forest team. . In
our opinion the Deacons will fight just as
hard and put up just as good a game against
the Wildcats as they did against Carolina
earlier in the season. When they were tied
by Elon, several of their outstanding players
were on the injured list, and they were not
in the shape they will be in for the clash
Saturday. In all probability, all their players
will be in the game Saturday, and the Wild-
cats will have a big job to down them. If
the Deacons can spring another upset and
beat the Wildcats, it will mean quite a bit to
them, and will make up for the humiliations
they have suffered at the hands of Elon and
State College.

In their game with the Wofford Terriers,
last week, the Wildkittens made up for their
defeat the week before by the Oak Ridgers.
The game was very loosely played and until
near the last neither team showed any ability
at all. In the last quarter, however, the
Wildkittens opened up a little and managed
to put over two touchdowns. Several of the
Freshmen showed good form near the last,
and look like good imaterial for next year,
which, by the way, will be badly needed
when the present Senior class is gone.

Estridge and Pope were the outstanding
players in the backfield. Estridge should de-
velop into a good line plunger, and Pope, by
means of his speed, should be able to tear
off long gains around the ends and through
the line when a hole is opened up for him.
In the line Foil and Brock were probably the
outstanding players. Covington also showed
up well, and proved to be one of the main
troubles of the Wofford Terriers. The visit-
ors tried to gain through the line but were
turned back almost.every time. As has been
said, the game as a whole was loosely played,

‘but ‘several: individual players showed up well
and: d the Freshmen to pile up a 12 to
. Fe . ee : ae se: p ry Sioiceagr ew 1

rf

ee at s

curred since 1922, when three’ of the four
games scheduled have resulted in a deadlock.
The Wake Forest Baptists won the other one
by a margin of one touchdown.

For two years in succession the Demon
Deacons and Wildcats have left the field with
a no-decision rendered. Both games have
been played in Charlotte, the first one being
a 7 to 7 knot, white Captain Grey and Cap-
tain Rackley last year tied the count at three

, all with a field goal each. :

Because of this fact, both teams will be
fighting for supremacy Saturday afternoon
before one of the largest crowds ever to wit-
ness a football encounter in North Carolina.
It will be the first game of the Davidson
Wildcats with any member of the “Big
Five,” and it will mark the first attempt of
the Presbyterians to defend the 1926 cham-
pionship crown, which they are now wearing.

Results of games since 1908 follow: —

1908—Wake Forest_. 4 Davidson _____ 31
1909—No game.

1910—Wake Forest_. 0 Davidson —---- 32
1911—Wake Forest_. 0 Davidson __.._ 9
1912—-Wake Forest_. 7 Davidson .-... 13
1913—Wake Forest_. 0 Davidson ____- 6
1914—-Wake Forest-. 6 Davidson .____ 7
1915—Wake Forest_. 7 Davidson <== 21
1916—No game,

1917—Wake Forest-. 7 Davidson —____ 72
1918—No game.

1919—Wake Forest_. 0 Davidson .-__- 21
1920—Wake Forest.. 7 Davidson .-__- 27
1921—Wake Forest_.10 Davidson .___- 7
1922—Wake Forest_- 6 Davidson .___- 6
1923—Wake Forest_. 6 Davidson —___. 0
1924—No game. :

1925—Wake Forest-. 7 Davidson .___- 7
1926—Wake Forest-. 3 Davidson .___- 3
Total—Wake Forest.70 Davidson --_._ 272

Won by W. F. 2; by Davidson 10; Tied 3,

Lingle Selected to
Manage Golf Team

At a meeting’on Friday night of those in-
terested in golf, W. L. Lingle was elected
manager of the golf team for the year 1927-
1928 to succeed Steve McGill, ex-’29, who
did not return to school. The team consists
of only four men at présent. These men are
Boyce Martin, Ben Wilson, Arthur Mills and
Walter Lingle.

Plans are now under way to arrange a
match with the Sedgefield Country Club, of
Greensboro, N. C., to be held here October
22nd. Although nothing definite has yet ma-
terialized, it is very probable that this match
will be held.

The team usually consists -of six men. Al-
though it now comprises only the four mem-
bers mentioned above, two more will be
selected in the spring from those candidates
who are now competing for places. These
new men will, of course, be placed before the
matches ‘with other colleges.

The course is now being put into fine
shape. The old first hole has been elimi-
nated for the construction of the new tennis
courts, the new hole making the course even
larger and more suitable for play.

At the meeting on Friday night it was also
decided to charge townspeople and faculty
members three dollars as fees for use of the
college course for a nine months’ period and
four dollars for’ its use’ during the entire
year. This decision will be of great benefit,
as sufficient funds will be derived from these
sources to maintain properly and gradually to

‘improve the course during the year.

Davidson Fresh Conquer

Wofford’s Terrier Pups
_ in Second Game of Year

Wildkittens Score Twice Near
Last of Game

POPE STARS

Broken-Field Running and Long
Passes Feature Davidson’s
March to Victory

As a much desired sequel to the varsity’s
12-2 drubbing of Wofford, came the Wild-
kittens’ 12-0 victory over the Wofford Fresh
on last Friday. : :

For the first three quarters, it was a mat-
ter of which team could gain the most on
exchahge of punts. Until Davidson’s rush
toward Wofford’s goal, in the last of the
third quarter, it appeared that the game was
to end in a scoreless tie. For well over two
quarters, the first downs made stood at Da-
vidson 2, Wofford 1.

Toward the end of the third stanza, the
ball went over to Davidson on Wofford’s 47-
yard line. McCall, Wildkitten quarter, rip-
ped off 17 yards through the line. On the
next play, Pope carried the hall for a 20-yard
gain. The quarter ended with the ball on
Wofford’s 10-yard line.

The fourth quarter witnessed a gallant
stand by the Wofford line, In three attempts
through the line, Davidson gained only 5
yards. A placement for field goal failed, the
ball going to Wofford on her own 20-yard
line. On the second play, Wofford kicked,
the ball going out of bounds on the 42-yard
line. Hére Davidson’s steady march for a
touchdown started. Pope repeated with 17
yards around end. A pass, Pope to Estridge,
added 5 yards. Three attempts through the
line were stopped by Wofford. On the fourth
down, a pass, from Pope to Estridge, added
10 yards and a touchdown. A drop-kick for
extra point failed.

A few minutes later, after Davidson had
kicked. off to Wofford, the Wildkittens inter-
cepted a pass on the 42-yard line. Estridge
and Fraley both gained 17 yards, and, aided
by small gains through the line, placed the
ball on Wofford’s 2-yard line, where Fraley
scored through the line for Davidson’s sec-
ond touchdown. The try for extra point
again failed.

The game ended as Pope intercepted an
attempted Wofford pass and raced 20 yards
to Wofford’s 15-yard line.

Breedin, Wofford guard, was easily the
outstanding star of either line, being respon-
sible for many losses by breaking through the
Davidson line. McCall, Oates and McIntyre
played stellar football for the visitors.

Pope was the most brilliant backfield star
of the game, repeatedly making long runs.
Estridge and Goodykoontz showed up’ well
in the backfield. David’s «defense backfield
work was prominent, while Foil, guard, and
Marrow, tackle, were line features for Da-
vidson.

D. Fresh. Position. W. Fresh
Gilliam __.--..--__ 150) Dy ee area Sale King
Covington ~....--- RED Ss oe Oats
oils See Seis RG ee McCall
(Continued on page 3)

Player College Td. Ex.Pt. F.G. T’tl.
Jankoski, Duke -_.. 9 1 0 55
Adams, Duke ---.- 6 0 O 36
Grey, R., Davidson. 4 2 1 2
Warren, State -..4 0 0 24
Cox; Wi F; ...-..- (tesa | 0 13
Adams, State -__.- 2 0 0 12
Goodwin, State ... 2 0 0 12
Childress, State-_._-2 0 Q) 12)
Outen, State ..___- 1 1 0 7
Harrison, Davidson. 1 OF 70) 26
Wearn, Davidson -. 1 0 Oo 6
Boliche, Duke --__- 1 0 oO 6
Lake, Duke _--.__- 1 0, 0:6
Ferrel, Carolina _._ 1 0 0 6
Young, Carolina -_:1 0 oO 6
Lepo, State .-.__._ 1 0 0 6
Ward, Carolina --. 1; 0 0 6
Connely, W. Forest1 0 0 6
McDowell, State -. 1 0 oO. 6
Crum, State -.._. 1 0 0 6
James, W. Forest __ 0 1 1 4
Kelley; Duke ._.- 02 4 re
McConnel, Dav.-.-0 0° 0 2
Schuler, Carolina _.0 0 0 2
Buie, Duke _---...0 2 0 2
Nesbit, Davidson -? 1-0 1

| Whisnant, Carolina0 1 ‘0 ae

Football Fans Anxiously
Watch Wildcat Gridders

Wildcats Maintain Clean Slate in
First Four Games

Davidson’s Wildcat team in spite of her
four successive victories over the Citadel,
Florida, Wofford, and Elon, will be put to a
severe test in attempting to continue their
triumphant march through the remainder of
the 1927 season against such powerful teams
as Wake Forest, V. M. I., N. C. State, the
University of North, Carolina, and Duke.

It has been generally admitted by all fol-
lowers of the Davidson team that the Wild-
cats have so far surpassed all expectations.
Whether or not they will be able to maintain
their clean slate throughout the season re-
mains to be,seen. So far Davidson has been
able to outwit and outclass her opponents,
and her goal line remains uncrossed. She
has scored 56 points to her opponents’ two, |
the latter having been made by Wofford on a
safety.

The approaching game with Wake Forest
bids fair to test the real fighting strength of
the Wildcats. It will be Davidson’s first en-
counter with one of North Carolina’s Big
Five teams. Although the humiliating de-
feat which the Demon Deacons suffered at
the hands of the State Wolfpack last Thurs-
day would indicate that Wake Forest was
not as strong as when she defeated Carolina,
Monk and Tex are expecting a hard game.
They saw Wake Forest and State play last
Friday, and while they don’t seem to expect
any particular trouble from the Deacons as
long as they stick to straight football, they’re
mighty afraid of an aerial attack,

Davidson’s victory over Elon last Saturday

would seem to give the Wildcats a neat mar-
gin over the Baptists, but Coach Younger is
still smarting under Davidson pitiful effort
to break up.Elon’s aerial_drive, which-almost
gave them a touchdown, and he’s looking for

OPPONENTS’ SCORES
Citadel ------- 19 Oglethorpe ---. 0
Florida ------- 27 Kentucky ----- 6
Wofford ------ 7 Chattanooga ~.38
Wake Forest -. 7 N.C. State -_.30
VieMinlercs coe 8° Virginia ~..-_- 13 ,
Dukes ses 72 Richmond ----- 0
N. Carolina _.. 6 S. Carolina --..14

trouble from Wake Forest in the same way.

7

Seniors Win First
Inter-Class Battle

The class basketball season for 1927 was
formally ushered in last Monday night when
the Seniors defeated the Juniors by a score
of 24 to 16 in a well played, hard fought
game.

Both teams played good basketball, and the
outcome was uncertain until the last whistle
had blown, and the Seniors emerged vic-
torious. At the half, the Juniors were lead-
ing by a score of 10 to 4, and it seemed that
the game would end with the Juniors on top,
but in the second half, the Seniors staged a
rally which overcame the lead of the Juniors
and gave them the lead, which they held until
the end of the game.

For the losers, Pat Crawford and Mea-
dows showed up well, both in breaking up the
shots of their opponents, and in scoring points
for their team. For the Seniors, John Kug-
ler and Caldwell Withers did the best work;
these two men passing up and down the floor,
and when opportunity afforded, taking pot-
shots at the basket for tallies.

The next game will be played dn Friday
night between the Seniors and the Freshmen.
This game promises to be very interesting,
since the Freshmen have not been seen in ac-
tion before, and they are expected to have a
good team. :

The following is the line-up for Monday
night’s game:

Juniors.
Martin (2)

Seniors.
Kugler (9)

Positions.

Right Forward
(Continued on page 3)

However, the Wildcats will be better trained
in their defensive tactics by next Saturday.

The team will go into their first conflict
with one of the Big Five teams in good
physical condition. McColgin, who was out
of the Elon game on account of sickness, is
rapidly recovering. Hampton’s ankle is bet-
ter, and the rest of the team seems to have
escaped the usual injuries.

plenty of speed

need.

Basketball

America’s fascinating game, with

situation for every second of play,

and constant activity. Play bas-

ketball and be physically fit.

basketball, and reasonably priced
too. Let us supply you with gym

shirts, sweat jerseys, sox, support-

ers, Or any equipment you may

The Students Store

It’s yours, why not patronize it ?

and thrill; n new

?

