THeDAV ID SONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XV.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 20, 1927

Eennuiie Subjects are Treated by
Professors as Works are Published

Doctors Hood and Brown Complete
Work on Books ’

GAIN RECOGNITION

Subjects Deal With Insurance Bus- |

iness and Development of North
Carolina Railways

Again members of the Davidson faculty
have published books. Dr. Frazer Hood's
“Every Man’s Insurance” and Dr. C. K.
Brown's “State Movement in Railroad De-
velopment” are the latest works completed
by Davidson men. Both these books are on
economic questions. Dr. Hood's “Every
Man’s Insurance’ ’has been off the press for
some time, while Dr. Brown's work is ex-
pected off the press during the middle of
December.

As has been pothted out before, Davidson
College professors have not been entirely in-
active in the field of authorship. This state-
ment is borne up by the recent publication of
Dr. Shewmake’s textbook, “College English
Composition” and Dr, Vowles’ Scandinavian
text.

There is added to these, Dr, Hood's in-
surance work, sub-titled “Protection for the
Family and Business,” which, although listed
among the newer books, has been published
long enough to attract nation-wide atten-
tion. Dr. Hood, realizing the need for a gen-
eral knowledge of insurance, has brought
forth a text that will meet the demands of
the average American citizen.
Monthly says: “Thé entire field of insuratice
is covered. Dr, Hood takes up first the so-
cial, economic, and mathematical significance
of insurance. He then marks the field off in-
to sections, treating successively the life, fire
and marine, casualty, and miscellaneous
forms. The explanation of the principle in-

(Continued on page 8)

Southern Power Company

The Credit ;

\Calcutta Graduate

| Lectures on India

Completely winning the large audience as-
| sembled in Shearer Hall on Wednesday, Oc-
| tober 12th, Mr. M. H. H. Joachim, lecturer
and authority on India, spoke briefly on his
| country’s social, political and religious prob-
| lems.

| Mr. Joachim was «introduced by Doctor
' Vowles. Mr. Joachim, who is a native of
| Calcutta and a graduate of the famous Uni-
versity of Calcutta, combines in his person-
ality the philosophical training of the East

Wildcats Uncover Fast
Plays and Defeat Elon
in Thrilling Game, 27-0

Touchdown Scored in Each Period
of Play Saturday

CAPTAIN GREY FEATURES

Zoe Walker Stars for ‘Visitors as
Elonites Battle Valiantly in
Scoring Attempts

Captain “Dick” Grey and his red and
black teammates ran roughshod over Elon
Saturday afternoon on Richardson Figld to
ring up their fourth consecutive win of the
Elon brought out trick play after
trick play irean effort to cross the Davidson

season,

and the culture of the West. He has proved
in the past few months that he has been a
deep thinking student of his country and is
| peculiarly fit to present his subject to Amer-

Introducing his speech with a few remarks
on the nature of his country, Mr. Joachim

country. It is not a strange, romantic land,
nor one to be studied through the channels of
the imagination, nor even from the writings

tion. India is a land of infinite variety, a!
land of inconsistency. Nothing is character- !
istically Indian. Temperature ranges every-
where between the intense cold on the slopes

the tropical villages. There are 72 lan-
; guages and 1,200 dialects spoken within its
boundaries, and more races are to be found
there than in India. |

Speaking of Indian civilization, Mr. Joa- ;
chim said that just as Western nations con-
sider civilization as a state of -material and
| mechanical prosperity and development, In-
dian civilization was a philosophical and re-
ligious development, and such being the case,

(Continued an page 8)

Attorney 1S

Engaging Speaker at Vesper Service

Attorney Says to Apply Scientific
+ Method to Religion

“Apply the scientific. method to religion,”
was the message which Judge J. H. Marion,
attorney for the Southern Power Company,
brought the Davidson student body and
townspeople in Shearer Hall Sunday.

Dr. J. L. Douglas, in introducing the
speaker, said that he was a graduate of the
University of South Carolina Academic and
Law School and had risen to the position of
judge after long service in his profession, He
served as colonel in the Spanish-American
war, and was elected to the Legislature short-
ly thereafter.

Judge Marion declared that it was an hon-
or for him to speak to youth and that he
would strive for the insight needed to reach
their point of view. The heart of youth is
still fundamentally the same as it was 30
years ago despite the revolutionary changes
wrought by war and invention.

The thoughts of youth are long thoughts,
long with regard to God and often tempted
to go astray. In this era of new thought some
men find difficulty in deciding what place
God and religion should have in their lives,
and some never do face the issue squarely.

In this |greatest scientific age of history,
subject religious matters also to the scientific
method. First, collect as many facts on the
subject as possible, then draw your con-
clusions. God will be found to be the only
hypothesis that will solve the riddle of life.

“More difficulty’ will be found in applying

\ the other steps of the scientific method. Pro-
ceed by experimental vertification to test the
conclusions you have made.” “If ye will do

(Continued on page 5)

College Masquers
| Conduct Try-Outs

Activities for the Red and Black Masquers
got under way when 23 men reported for
try-outs last Friday night in Shearer Hall.

“| Under the supervision of Professor Erwin,

sponsor of the organization, and Val Guth-
ery, president, each of the men was given an

opportunity to display his talent in the one-
act play entitled “I Do.” Announcements
have not been made by the directors, as yet,
as to who were selected, but this is expected
to be made public within the next few days,
after each one who is trying-out has further
demonstrated his ability as parts are taken in
| several selected one-act plays. The ones
chosen will participate in the presentation of
the three-act play which is to be given on the
trip which is made annually by the club.

The first appearance of the Red and Black
Masquers will be the presenting of a one-act
play on Stunt Night.

Professor Erwin desires that onyone else
who is interested in dramatics, especially in
writing plays, and also those who wish to
affiliate themselves with the organization in
the capacity of electrician, carpenter, or simi-
lar positions, get in touch with him or with
Val Cuthery at once.

The active members of the Red and Black’
Masquers are: Guthery, president; A. T.
Dillard, manager; John McNeely, Henry
Powell, Herman Campbell, T. T. Jones, R.
C. Platt, J. R. Covington, and Boyce Martin.

Those who are trying-out are: /J. S. Mc-
Allister, J. P. McKnight, J. S. Grey, J. C.
Frye, C. C. Trabue, J. B. Johnson, L. A.

| ican audiences. |

described India as a continent more than aj

of Rudyard Kipling, but a huge continent |
supporting one-fifth of the world’s popula- |

of the Himalayas to the insufferable heat He

(Continued on page 8)

goal line, but all in vain. Grey and his ’Cats
came out on the long end of a 27-0 score.
Phe Wildeats were playing for the first
time this season on their own gridiron, and
they showed the large crowd of enthusiastic
supporters that they can still perform in
championship style. Dick Grey led the Da-
vidson attack, but was supported in
ball-toting by Harrison, Nesbit, and Flynn.
Davidson gained a total of 512 yards, 290 of
which were clicked off by Dick himself, Of
the four touchdowns made, Grey made two
of them, and sent the pigskin sailing be-
tween tle posts to account for two of the
three extra points scored. The first touch-
down came as a result of a 54-yard run made
by Grey through the center of the Elon line.
Harrison scored the second touchdown and
circled the ends time after time for substan-
tial gains. The third touchdown was made
(Continued on page 6)

Spirit of Mirth and Joy
to Mark Home-Coming

well

Time for Renewing friendships as
Alumni Gather Here

Joy, mirth and a general revival of the
spirit of good fellowship will reign supreme
on the campus of Davidson College on Oc-
tober 29th, when hundreds of alumni will
trek back once more for the annual Home-
Coming Day exercises, according to arrange-
ments made by an alumni committee last
week,

The modern young graduate with his mod-
ern ideas and a gradually increasing realiza-
tion of the ways of the world will take his
place beside his wise brother of the old
school with the same feeling of welcome and
will stroll around the ancient trees telling
old tales, meeting old friends and marveling
at the improvements which have taken place
since their day here. Old jokes will be re-
told and newer experiences will be related to
receptive ears which have all but become im-
pregnable to doubtful stories.

The program committee has arranged ayvery
informal schedule which, it is believed, will
be greatly enjoyable to the returning men
because of its informality. The men will not
be burdened about going first one place only
to be rushed back to another function, but
will haye plenty of time to enjoy themselves
without being bothered by duties.

The students will also enjoy a red-letter
day as classes will be suspended for the oc-
casion and they will be at the top of their
ability making the alumni more at home and
helping to entertain them. /Student activi-
ties will hold sway part of the day.

After the alumni have gotten on the cam-
pus, reported to the office of the alumni sec-
retary, and registered, they will be spectators
at a drill and parade’ by the local R. O. T. C.
unit which has won distinctive rating in the
fourth corps area for the past two years and
this is usually one of the best features of the
early attractions.

After the parade the crowd will move to

Five Seniors Receive Highest College
Distinction as Phi Beta Kappa Elects

Longer Period for
Library Use Given

One of the most enthusiastically received
announcements of the year was that made by
Dr. Frazer Hood, of the Faculty Library
Committee, last Monday morning to the effect
that two and one-half hours be added to the
period in which the reference rooms of the
library would remain open during the day.

This forward step has been heartily re-
sult of numerous requests by members of the
student body that the rooms be made more
accessible for reference work during ‘the
times at which they are free from classes.
This plan, Dr. Hood advises, will continue in
so far as the students avail themselves of the
added opportunity for library work. The
schedule of closing—1:40 p. m. instead of
12:00, and at 10:30 p. m. instead of 9:30 p.
m., will be adhered to until the Christmas
holidays, when it will be judged as to wheth-
er or not sufficient use is being made of the
additional privilege.

The administration is able to place this ad-
vantageous change before the students only
through the expenditure of more money, and
for this reason it is thought to be impracti-
cable to provide such as is not being taken
advantage of.

This fordwar dstep has: been heartily re-
ceived by many of the men who are unable,
on account of morning classes or laboratory
courses, to use the library, as they, will now
be able to make frequent and lengthy visits
to the library.

Many colleges and universities throughout
the land are facing the same problem and are
placing similar advantages in the path of the
students. Recently at Princeton, the hours of
closing the library were changed to midnight

(Continued on page 3)

Prominent Men Receive Rewards
for Continuos Scholastic Efforts

ALUMNI NAMES UNKNOWN

Initiation Set for December 9 as
Plans Are Made to Secure
Distinguished Speaker

Five men from among the student body
received the highest honor that can be award-
ed in collegiate circles when they were ex-
tended bids, last Saturdidy, by Phi Beta
Kappa, national scholarship society. The
men so distinguished were: D. H. Howard,
Lynchburg, Va.; H. B. Arbuckle, Jr... Da-
vidson, N. C.; C. G. Davidson, Chester, S. C.;
J. S. Grey, Richmond, Va., and J. S. Me-
Allister, Greensboro, N.C.

The Davidson branch of this organization,
which is North Carolina Gamma Chapter,
also issued bids to alumni of Davidson, but
officers refused to give the names of these
graduates until acceptance had been signified.

Although the speaker for the initiation
ceremony has not announced as
preparations for this occasion are being made
by a committee appointed by Dr. Thomas W.
Lingle, president of the loc# chapter. An-
nouncement has been made that the date of
this initiation will be December 9th.

Phi Beta Kappa stands foremost in the
large group of honorary fraterntties ot the
nation because of its recognition of excel-
lence in the most important phase of college
work—scholarship. It is the oldest organi-
zation of this kind in the United States, hav=
ing been founded at William and Mary Col-
lege in 1776. At present 107 chapters compose
its membership and are located in the lead-
ing colleges and universities of the nation.

The five student members selected in this
election are prominent men in the affairs of

(Continued on page 8)

been yet,

Date of Carolina Game is Chosen for
Holiday as Unanimous Vote is Taken

Few Changes Mar

Stunt Night Plans

following the custom which has been the
order for years, Stunt Night will be held at
the conclusion of an eventful Home-Coming

Day during which the V. M. I.-Davidson '

football game will have been the feature per-
formance of the day. The program which is
now being arranged will be presented in
Shearer Hall on the night of October 29th,
at which time those who have the matter in
charge state that a capacity house is ex-
pected just as in every previous year when
the hall was taxed to its limits.

The Glee Club, the Red. and Black Mas-
quers, the four classes and several other ‘stu-
dent organizations are Making unique and
varied plans for an evening of mirth-provok-
ing and hilarious entertainment. Committees
have been appointed by the various classes
and these are now making preparations on
original stunts to be revealed at this time.

The Glee Club will appear, presenting sev-
eral numbers by the chorus, and the Jazz Or-
chestra is expected to entertain the audience
with several numbers, decidedly not classical.
Other members of the Glee Club will appear
in features which are now being worked out.

A short comedy skit will be presented for
the approval of the student body by the Red
and Black Masquers, dramatic organization
of the campus, under the direction of Pro-
fessor Erwin and Val Guthery, president.

Features of the evening are always those
acts devised by the four classes, which are
kept secret until the time for presentation,
and are the basis for many rumors and sur-

the new stadium on Richardson Field, where mises as to their nature. }

(Continued on page 5)

(Continued on page 5)
S

iBsecutive Committee Also Curtails
Classes for State Game

Each year the faculty has granted a holi-
day to all students attending the football
game played on one designated day. The.
student body decided that that day should be
November 12th, the day Davison plays Caro-
lina at Chapel Hill. Arrangements have been
made to run a special train to Chapel Hill
for the game. Al! the students riding this
train will be excused from classes, -while
those remaining on the hill, or not going to
the game, will be required to meet classes as
usual. The rate for the round trip will
probably be a little in excess of five dollars.
It is believed that the Band will make this
trip with expenses paid.

Plans are also being made by Spike McGee
to get as many of the student body as possi-
ble to the other two games to be played off
the campus, namely, the Wake Forest game,
‘on October 22nd, and the State game, on
November 5th, both to be played at Greens-
boro. Arrangements have been made to
have busses on hand for the students who
have no classes after 10:45 Saturday to go to
the Wake Forest game. The round-trip fare
will be three dollars and a half, a very eco-
nomical price, being cheaper than a U-Push-
’Em or train and much more convenient and
certain than “bumming.” A large per cent
of the Band have volunteered to pay their
own way to this game. McGee says this
game is no cinch, and sends an earnest re-
quest that a great many of the students
attend,

_ A petition to the Executive Committee was
filed by Spike McGee, acting in behalf of the
students, requesting that classes be shortened |

. (Continued on page 8)
