4

THE.DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 10, 1927

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press

Association .

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

———S———

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Pyblication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-

ceived from an unknown source will not be published.
HARLLEE_ BRANCH, JR.--.--.----.--.----.-. Editor-in-Chief

VERNON: :S; BRO Yiibekssecksascncscceccus Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

W.. Ts. OUI G gs iia s ce ccsca cn cqundsenedssce Manian BaItor.
BOYCE MARTIN. .--Assistant Managing Fditor
F. C, WITHERS... scenlscbsuddbanndbACHietiG Bator
BUFORD WEBB. ...-..-.-Associate Editor
Ds By Pi. 3010) CEE ppoae ee ne yo Alumni Editor
D. M. CALHOUN. ......-Exchange Editor
. dx SHELBY........ ._Humorous Editor.
D. M>> CALHOUN........ ....-Alumni Editor
We28; (GORDON gsissacteseccs Assignment Editor
Poe ONMsstscteccscscved Jcnsuus clcdesuancuss Feature Editor
Te Ti SI ONDSieetc cues = --...... Inquiring Reporter
BUSINESS STAFF
E. L. DOUGLASS -2__-.

-...---Assistant Rusiness Manager
Assistant Business Manager
sistant Business Manager
.......Subscription Manager
Circulation Manager
....-Service Manager

M_P. CRAWFORD...
JULIAN LAKE..22. 22.2...
A. McALPINEei22-.. 2223.2
eid Pre LEE DONE) br VS Cage Bi yea
Ri SS; ABBRNE PHY (see

Reporters’ Club

C. C. MURCHISON C. R. LAKE
W. T. COVINGTON R. R. KANE
W. T. DAVIS TOHN GWIN
JOHN MORIARTY T. T. JONES
} R. H. McILWAINE

A. N. BROWN
LY

J Geb . P. McKNIGHT
L. WADSWORTH a M SPARROW
TYREE DILLARD B. WILSON

J. R. WEAVER B. F. MCQUEEN

EDITORIAL

Henry Ford’s latest industrial idea of a
five-day week has entered colleges, first, ap-
parently by way of the college of business
_administration at Harvard. To«the-list of
commercialized college sports, militarized
college curriculums, and modernized college
instruction, we are about to add an indus-
tralized college calendar. Soon we shall be
asking “Why is a college?” +

D
SPORT FOR SPORT’S SAKE

An item appearing in the columns of a
large number of southern newspapers last
week concerning a ifistic encounter between
two. college athletes and a basketball offi-
cial in Greenville bring forcibly to our at-
tention the need of a changed attitude con-
cerning intercollegiate sports. That two
Wake Forest players should have dared to
attack a referee following their defeat at
the hands of Furman University last week
indicates a growing misconception of true
sportsmanship among our college athletes.

Not having witnessed either the actual
encounter between official and players, nor
having seen the events which led to this
display of rowdyism, we refrain from as-
signing the blame for this lamentable oc-
curence. Newspaper reports (often unfair)
indicate that the two players attacked the
referee after the last whistle, and without
warning proceeded to inflict bodily injuries
upon their surprised victim. The game had
heen a walk-a-way for Furman according
to news dispatches, and the referee had call-
ed only two less fouls on the Furman play-
ers than he had called on the Wake Forest
basketeers. The interference by police pre-
vented what might have been a real old-
fashioned “free-for-all,” news reports mak-
ing it clear that Furman students and spec-
tators had advanced to the court for the
purpose of preserving order and protecting
the official from further injury at the hands
of the two Wake Forest players. There is
more in the affair than the average reader
realizes,

In the first place this regrettable affair
indicates a growing laxity in the matter of
disciplining college athletes. The Wake-
Forest anti-climax is not the only instance
we have had recently concerning this lack
of proper idealism among student athletes.
The break between Princeton and Harvard,
two old-time gridiron rivals, is said to have
followed unnecessary and continued rough-
ness and slugging on the part of the players,
combined with the use of profanity by mem-
bers of the Princeton team. ‘The Davidson-
P. C. split was the result of a similar com-
plaint. Everywhere we hear of “athletic
splits,” of “free-for-alls,” of fistic encount-
ers between officials and players.

There is nowhere a stronger advocate of
college athletics, both of the intercollegiate
and intra-mural varieties, than The David-
sonian. But, unless college athletics can be
kept on a plane far remoyed from the ten-
sdencies of commercialized sports, they

a

should be prohibited. In the final analysis,
there is only one real justification for inter-
collegiate athletics—and that is the claim
that sports of this type tend to develop a
student’s physique and likewise his char-
acter. When college athletes fail to attain
the proper discipline, in the matter of self-
control as well as in bodily development,
they unconsciously open the flood, gates to
a tidal wave of timely criticism from those
persons who already see-evil in the over-
emphasis of athletics among college stu-
dents.

It is inconceivable that an athlete who
fails to act a man’s part on the gridiron or
on the basketball court should be raised to
the pedestal of a campus-hero, or that his
untimely acts should receive the approba-
tion of his coaches and his fellow students.

Yet, that is what has happened in too many

instances.

As long as an athlete thinks he will be ex-
cused—and protected—by his fellow stu-
dents for a breach of athletic etiquette, col-
lege athletics are in eminent danger of los-
ing their prestige. Poor. sportsmanship is
never to be excused—and since true sports-
manship to a great extent depends on dis-
cipline and self-control, no such occurence as
fhat in Greenville last week should be over-
looked or excused.

Perhaps the two Wake Forest_players in
defending their untimely actions will say
that the referee had been unduly partial in
his decisions, or that he had failed to per-
form his duties ina competent manner. Such
alibis would only add to the distastefulness
of the affair. A referee is chosen by agree-
ment of the two colleges, and his decisions,
no matter how unfair they may seem, should
not be subject.to the approval of the play-
ers either verbally or physically. Under no
condition should a referee be subjected. to
the mistreatment by contestants and spec-
‘ators. The right sort, of official should re-
sent any indication of displeasure at his
decisions on the part of the players by ad-
ministering such penalties as are provided
in the rules of the games. At no time should
players or spectators attempt to dictate to
an official.

The two Wake Forest players have
apologized for their lack of consideration,
and they are to be congratulated for their
apology. But, their attack will remain in-
excusable and repugnant in the minds of all
who cherish the ideal of “sports for sport
sake.”

CHOOSE NOW MEN!

Vice is a monster of so frightful a mien

As to be hated needs but to be seen:

Seen too oft’, familiar ‘comes the face,

We first endure, then pity, then embrace.

From among the myriad of factors that
have entered into, and played a leading part
in man’s life,:four have slowly elevated
themselves above their brothers. Honor,
wealth, vice and pleasure have taken their
places at the head of the cortege. In
strength they are equal, and in their untver-
sal appeal they are likewise evenly matched.

For the college student it is essential that
a goal be set. He must work for a purpose,
must prepare himself for a life of service;
or for a-few years of gaudy pleasure that
will net him misery and sorrow in the final
reckoning. He must choose a friend’ from
among those four leaders and by that choice
will his entire life he colored.

But when is the choice to be made; in the
last year of college; in the years that come
after college; or at the present? The ques-
tion is easily answered with one word, “To-
day.” Tomorrow may be too late. To-
morrow may mark the turning of one’s en-
tire life. The examinations and daily reci-
tations of college life are’ small problems,
small battles which must be won or lost to-
day. They are miniature counterparts of
the great battles that will come in the years
of struggle that must follow these carefree
days of college life.

Never will there-be a time more appro-
priate than now for the beginning of prep-
aration for a straightforward, honorable life
of service. In the classroom and on ex-
amination the moral fibres may be strength-
ened by honest work. The student of today
may prepare himself so that the man of
tomorrow will depend, not upon trickery
and deceit, but upon his own honest efforts
to gain the prize for which he fights. And
a prize so won is doubly dear to him. It is
one which he can look upon with pride and
not with that tinge of self-reproach and hu-
miliation which must surely compromise the
value of anything bought with the price of
his own honor. If one would get the most
out of his allotted three score years and ten
he must, and will, play well the gay little
game of years. He will suffer defeat or a
low grade rather than the humiliation of
knowing that he is not fair with himself and
with others. —MercerCluster.

WHICH HELPED YOU

MORE: STUDIES. OR ACTIVITIES?
By DALE WARREN

Editor’s Note: The following article, reprinted ;
by courtesy of The New Student, America’s lead-
ing intercollegiate publication, is the first of a
series of two articles on curricular and extra-cur-
ricular activities, a correlation of which we be-
lieve both desirable and necessary if the average
student is’to get the most out of his college work.
The futility of such a correlation is stressed in
Mr. Warren's discourse, while next week’s article,
written by Dr. Mary Yost, dean of Women at
Stanford University, indicates that the day when
curricular work in colleges was considered ir-
reconcilably separate and distinct from student
activities is fast receding into the limbo of forgot-
ten things. We implore serious thought by fac-
ulty alike on this subject.

vw

Out of my mail the other morning there drop-
ped an envelope postmarked with the name of the
town where I had received my “college education.”

The enclosed letter which I read with a com-
mengling of interest and amusement came from
the editor of the college paper and asked me if I
would write an article from “four to five hundred
words in length,” telling which had been more val-
uable to me, “the work put in on college studies or
that devoted to extra-curriculum activities.” The
editor went on to say that he was running a series
of articles on the subject, written by recent grad-
uates, that he felt sure any comment I might
make would prove helpful and stimulating to un-
dergraduate readers.

My amusement grew, and instead of following
my ‘first inclination to drop the letter into the
waste paper basket, I sat down that evening to
answer it. I had no thought of. silencing all future
questions on the subject nor did I intend to count
my words for fear of over-stepping the five-hun-
dred limit.

Dear Sir, I wrote, your question is not a new
one. It has been asked perennially since the days
of the first graduating class and will continue to
be asked, I suppose as long as young men go to
college. The very fact that it is forever on the
tip of the undergraduate tongue is just another
way of saying that no very conclusive answers
can have as yet been given. In. other words, your
question, while logical from your point of view,
is absurd—absurd, I mean, to try to answer.

So I don’t intend to answer it at all, but propose
merely to set down a few reflections which this
subject seems. most unexpectedly, to crystallizeg
into words.

Can you imagine an American college without
a curriculum? I can’t. Without a curriculum,
there would be no boards of trustees, no profes-
sors, no ourses, no such-thing as Economics 301.
And who, tell me, would go so far as to pay the
tuition fees of the students?

We go to college ostensibly, to “learn some-
thing,” and by learning something we mean “get-
ting something out of our courses.” Isn’t that
We know that there will be “marks” in col-
lege just as there were marks in prep. school. We

so?

know, even if we may not admit it, that by ar-
bitrary standards will our mental capacities be
adjudged. We know, despite this, that we want

to get good marks in our examinations.

Confidentially, however, we expect to pitch on
the baseball team and edit the college paper, join
a good fraternity and be one of the boys, go on
week-end trips to New York and read Cabell and
Dreiser when we should be asleep.

And so when Freshman year comes along we
have it pretty firmly fixed in our minds that the
curriculum is one thing and the extra-curriculum
another. — It not altogether our fault. Our
parents and friends think the same thing; so do
the. Faculty and most of our classmates. This, it
seems to me, is the explanation of our error, al-
though not much of an excuse for it. Some of us
overemphasize the importance of the curriculum,
some of us go to the ‘other extreme. Very few
of us find the connecting thread,

is

What we have done 1s simply to follow along in
true American style, without stopping to consider
whether there might be another way. We have
pinned to our minds a national characteristic—the
propensity for differentiation, for classification,
for the fine art of pigeon-holing. And the chances
are that we will go through college making these
rigid distinctions, and see to it later on that our
sons do the same thing.

Far be it from me to indict a péople, as Edmund
Burke expressed it, in that bane of college en-
trance requirements, but aren’t you continually
oppressed by our American over-emphasis on or-
ganization? We are specialists in this field, we
like to departmentalize, to relegate all things to
their “proper place,” and at the same time to
achieve a balance by mixing a little bit of eevry-
thing. As it is with the nation, so it is with the
individual, Hence our universities, with literature

and metaphysics and professors on the one hand, |

and football teams and class committees and fra-
ternities on the other.

Just take a look at Oxford—no alumni associa-
tions, no “reunions,” no professional coaches, no
class-room exercises, no daily schedule, no Fresh-
man tests, no Puritanic intensity, no elaborate
system of elections to a senior council. Yet it
turns out men who can think and talk and get

things done, who can climb mountains and play
good"tennis and understand Browning, men who
can dance and raise families and talk the lan-
guage of ditch diggers and debate in Parliament.

I am not holding a brief for English universi-
ties; I have never been to one, except for three
days in the summer. But I think they have many
things to teach us. No English university man
could have asked the question that you have
asked me, no undergraduate editor of an English
paper could be interested in the answer. It is
because the English gee life more as a whole, be-
cause they are interested in synthesis and not
primarily in analysis. :

They seldom stop to think whether they are
robbing Peter to pay Paul. They don’t divide up
their days by hours and half-hours and thus con-
tinually have to reorganize their mental faculties.

I suppose your days at college are much as mine
used to be—a hurried breakfast and a run to get
to the 8:10 lecture in history. Then a shoe-shine
and the morning’s mail and a brief review of the
economics assignment before the next class. Then
a “study period” followed by fifty minutes of
Latin before lunch. And the hectic afternoons!
A committee meeting for ten minutes, then
Physics Lab., two and a half sets of tennis, and a
rush for that five o'clock concert of chamber
music that you don’t want to miss, then dinner.

Do your friends drag you off to the movies as
mine used to, and do you leave in the middle of
the last reel to give out assignments to candidates
for the paper? Do you go back to your room and
read three acts of “Richard III” for the coming
Shakespeare quiz, and finally throw the book and
talk to your room-mate about the next prom as
you are getting undressed?

Are your days a regular kaleidoscope, first one
color and then another, now one pattern and now
a second? Are you as adept as I used to be at
readjusting your thought and activity with each
hour of the day, at continually stopping one thing
to do something else, at never learning or doing
anything thoroughly? I will never forget those
glamorous days with their frenzied gestures and
tlreir utter lack of correlation. As I look back
upon them, now that you take me to task, the
complacent lack of perspective seems almost. un- .
beliévable.

We are so intense here in America, and in col-
lege particularly. We specialize, we “go in” for
things. If we are not overwhelmed by the thou-
sand and one trifles that make college a veritable
merry-go-round, we work for a letter in football,
or a Phi Beta Kappa key, seldom for both, lf we
are less talented we like to be voted the “busiest”
at the end of Senior year, and we have coined the
unique phrase, “best all-round man outside of
athletics?

We “crimmage or we_ scan,” we
Homeric quotations out of place on the football
field, and the scholar does not think. his scholar- _
ship enriched by the rhythm only good oarsmen
know. We rush around the campus with our
classmates on Saturday night; we hardly ever
think of discussing such closely related subjects
as Plato and the minimum wage ystem with ‘our
philosophy instructor n a book-lined study ‘be-
Our faculties have lit-
tle sympathy with us if we think the rich, grimy
book of human nature more interesting than any
item we can find in the University Library.

The Greek tenet of the golden mean has been
clouded by the smoke of countless factories and
of “Father's business” often make
the determining factor when we come to choose
our own courses, lave not many of us grubbed
night and day as business

consider

fore smouldering embers.

the demands

thanaper of some cam-
pus periodical becatise we thought it would help
ts in Advertising, and then drifted casually into
Architecture after graduation ? ;

Tam speaking of my contemporaries; just keep
track of yours, and see how often this proves to
be the we have thought we
would just loaf through four years of college be-
cause we would have‘to work hard cnough after-
wards to make up for il.

case, Sometimes

At all events, we have lost much of the inter-
relation of things. We have set our classmates
down as “grinds,” “athletes,” “charm-chasers” and
in most cases have accepted these decrees as
final. We have divided our minds into water tight
compartments. How many of us have sat up to
“put the paper to bed” and then gone back to our
rooms to browse through the journal of Horace
Walpole and his press at Strawberry Hill? How
many of us have left akin to the old Roman ora-
tors as we have spent a listless evening in debat+
ing trials? How many of us have taken a worn
copy of Walt Whitman to the woods with us on
a perfect afternoon in April? How many of us
have talked with the Italian bootblack the wiser
for our studies in history or social economics?

Just as long as we continue to think of the
curriculum and the extra-curriculum as separate
entities, we shall go on wasting time in the at-
tempt to discover the relative value of the two.
Just as long as we keep subdividing the curricu-
lum and the extra-curriculum into half a hundred
disconnected sectors, we shall continue to obscure
the whole picture.

(Continued on page 8)
