\THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 20, 1927

Thirty-seven Men Selected from More
Than One Hundred Glee Club Candidates

Thirty-seven siderite Tee have been chosen to
comprise the Davidson College Glee Club on
its tour of North Carolina and Virginia this
fall, according to an announcement made
Tuesday afternoon by. Edwin L. Douglass, ;
business manager of the club.

The final selection of singers followed a
month of keen competition among the fifty-

odd students who remained after the first a

elimination trials. More than a hundred stu- |
dents were on hand for the original try-outs, |
which were held during the first week of col-
lege in September, this being the largest
number of candidates ever trying for places
on the club.

The students who will comprise the club! .
are:

First Tenors: CC. C. Clarke, Elizabeth-
town; J. S. Gray, Richmond, Va.; Frank '
Pilcher, Charleston, W. Va.; A. J. Ra
son, Badin; J. E. Bradley, China;
Hunter, Davidson; E. B. Hammack, ieee |
Ga.; Hugh McMillan, Atlanta, Ga.; S. R. |
Coker, Hartsville, S. C. .

Second Tenors: C. L. Creech, Winston- |
Salem; E. L. Douglass, Augusta, Ga.; D. H, |
Howard, Lynchburg, Va.; R. E. Wilson,
Charlotte, N. C.; O. T. Gibson, Pennington,
W. Va.; J. A. Cannon, Concord; W. E. |
Phifer, Port Jervis, N. Y.; J. A. Wilson, |
Montreat; R. S. Abernethy, Winter Haven, |
Fla.

Baritones :
W. B. Yancey and C. B. Yancey, Umatilla,
Fla.; W. C. Archie, Salisbury; R. S. Low-
rance, Atlanta, Ga.; R. W. McDermid,
ett Ss: C3 HR. Mobley, Reidsville;

Cc. J.’ Albright, Richmond)’ Va.; B. H. O.4 |
Gear. Charleston, S. C.

Second Bass: J. P. Thompson, Davidson;
R. O. Flynn, Atlanta, Ga.; J. R. McCravey, |
Forest, Miss.; C. H. DuBose, Pocomoke |
City, Md.; Knox Poole, Troy; M. M. King, |
Bristol, Tenn.; R. M. Christian, yan
Ala.; A. R. Byrd, Washington, D. C.; H. B. |
Mavel Falkland, and G. H. eS Wain) Ar-
cadia, Fla,

Edwin L. Douglass, manager of the David-
son College Glee Club, is now working on
plans for the two tours that the gleemen i
take this year. The first will be befor
Christmas and will cover North Carolina aa
Virginia. This trip will last for a week. On
the second trip the singers will travel in the
opposite direction, going to South Carolina
and Georgia, and staying for one week. The
places that the Glee Club will visit on these
tours have not been definitely decided but will
be published in a later edition of the paper.

Beside the two above trips they are to take’
several short week-end excursions to near-by

J. S. Foster, Winston-Salem; |

Dj practice.

Riflemen Appoint

Officers cers for a”

The members af iis last year’s rifle team met |
on Wednesday afternoon to elect officers for |
J. M. Gudger was elect- |
C. Taylor, team man-

e.
To date, challenges have been received |
from the North Dakota State College, Mis- |
sissippi A. and M. College, and the Culver |
These matches will be |
The shoulder to |
shoulder encounters will be arranged later on |

the present season.
ed team captain and W.

Military Institute.
held by competitive scores.

in the season,
No practices have yet been held, for im- |

| provements are being made on the rifle range }
and it has not been in a condition for active |
There are many schemes under |
m. | way for the improvement of the rifle team, |
| but at the present, writing none have been | -

made public.

DAVIDSON FRESH CONQUER

(Continued from page 2)

Maso soccccccue Center
IBLOCK a cekeee Leas WG tooo cooeuees Breedin |
Marrow ......2-L- 1D Rese King, L. (c) |
PRLOCtOl cece hecc acs IB a evo sense Gibson
EMGGOlliaccoueeaee 4 OBreoece seas Peoples | |
| DY: ta Fee ee Seb selessc Sree Hall |
Goodykoontz(c) —. "RH susacecd McIntyre |
Braleyseeccuseeu cl 1 RY) spear Ale) Ross
Score by quarters:
Davidson Fresh, ~.------- 0 0 0 12—12
Wofford Fresh, ---.----.- 000 00
| - Scoring touchdowns: Fraley, Estridge,
| sub, for McCall. |
Officials : Brice (Auburn), referee;
Crayton (Davidson) Headlinesman; Kirk-

patrick (N. C. State), umpire and time-
keeper.

First downs: Wofford 1, Davidson 10;
penalties: Wo:ord 20 yards, Davidson 25
yards.

Metal furniture manufactured in the
United States is finding a ready market
in tropical countries, where it furnishes
better resistance to write ants and other
insects than the wooden type.
=e
colleges and cities. Last year the Glee Club
made a fine impression wherever it went and
from the material that they have this year an
equally good one is expected. Of the quartet
of last year’s songmen only one is left to start
off the new men this year, John Foster.

FRY AND ANDREW HONORED
BY STATE VOLUNTEER BAND

G. A. Fry and J. M. Andrew represented
.the Davidson Volunteer Band at the fall re-
treat of the state organization, which was
held at Duke University, in Durham, from
October 14th to 16th. This retreat was
composed of two delegates from each of the
various groups throughout the state, together
with. the state executive committee, and a
total of seven colleges and universities were
represented. Fry is president of the state
union, while Andrew has just been elected.
editor of “The Volunteer,” the official bul-
letin of the state organization.

The retreat held its first session on Friday
evening andwas concluded on Sunday morn-
ing. Among ‘the speakers who addressed the
delegation were Dr. Soper and Professor
Cannon, of the Duke School of Religion;
J. D. Stott, a general councilor of the Stu-
dent Volunteer Movement;2and Mr. Chin, a
native Chinese preacher. Mr. Chin’s talk
was especially interesting, for he described
how he had been won from Confucianism to
Christianity through the efforts of one of his
friends. The particular emphasis of the
talks of both Mr. Stott and Mr. Chin, was on
the pratical application of religion. It was |
the opinion of both speakers that Christianity
is not the gospel according to Matthew, to’
Luke or to John, but “the gi date according to!
you. ”

The most important matter along the lines
of business to come before the retreat was
the discussion of the tenth quadriennial con-
vention to be held in Detroit during the
Christmas holidays. The state unions of Vir-
ginia and North Carolina are co-operating in
planning to send their delegations to Detroit
by special train. North Carolina will be of-
ficially represented by Fry, who was selected
as state representative.

The leading social feature of the retreat |
was a social tendered to the visiting delegates
by the Duke group, which took place. on Sat-
urday night.

Lecture Committee

Gets Third Speaker

So far the only lecture scheduled for the
rest of the year will be a lecture by Ralph
Dennis, Dean of Speech at Northwestern
University, located at Evanston, Ill. Dean
Dennis is a noted authority on Russia, hav-
ing spent much.of his time there studying the
conditions of the nation. His last trip there
was in the summer of 1927,

No definite time has been. set for the lec-
ture, but it will probably come, some time
during the month of March. In all prob-
ability the date will not be decided until after
the Christmas holidays.

In bringing Dr. Dennis to the college the
lecture committee is continuing its policy of
bringing only the most noted specialists to
speak to the students, believing that it is bet-
ter to have a few lectures by men who are
complete masters of their subject rather than
numerous lectures by men who are not so
well acquainted with their subject matter.

The main reason why so few lectures have
, been scheduled is a lack of funds. Only about
three hundred dollars are appropriated for
lectures and therefore they must be of qual-
ity ather than quantity.

According to Dr. Shewmake, chairman of
the lecture committee, it is hoped that some
more money will be appropriated for the
furtherance of lectures here. Although Dr.
Martin has not yet committed himself, he has
expressed himself as being favorable to the
idea,

So far only the lectures enjoyed have been
by Dr. Edwin Mims, of Vanderbilt Univer-
sity, who spoke ‘here on Monday night, Sep-
tember 19th, on “Specialization and Culture,”
in which he pictured the ideal modern college.
The other lecture was delivered hy Mr. M.
H, H. Joachim, noted authority on India,

|

|

See oee Ue Gleaton |

Monday, October 24th.

3
. |
i a z)
i: -
TULL Ree
"mn i
a,
ay
a
Poe iy
The one cigarette in a million
Tue instant a Camel is lighted, you for Camel. Modern smokers demand
sense that here is the distinctly better superiority. They find it fulfilled in
cigarette. And how this superior quality Camels, and place them overwhelmingly
grows with the smoking! Choice to- first.
baccos tell their fragrant story. Patient, You should know the tastes and
careful blending rewards the smoker fragrances that choice tobaccos really
with added pleasure. give. Camels will reveal an entirely
Camel is the one cigarette in a mil- new pleasure. And the more of
lion for mildness and mellowness. Its de- them you light, the more enjoyable.
cided goodness wins world popularity “Have a Camel!”
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SAEEM, N. C.
: © 1927
Harvard Professor :
to Visit Davidson HERP’S a reason why more college men
Professor Mallot, the assistant dean of the come to :
graduate school of Business Administration : '
at Harvard University, will visit Davidson on \
The Harvard Grad- \ 9
uate School of Business Administration, one Johnson S Barber Shop
of the highest ranking in the country, has
recently been very richly endowed. The pres-
ident of the First National Bank of Harvard, THREE DOORS BEYOND THE BANK
Mr. Baker, has given five million dollars, y
and there have been several other smaller en- “p

dowments. Several Davidson graduates have
gone from Davidson to take this course. Two
of last year’s class left here to take the
course,

Professor Mallott is coming to Davidson
for the purpose of going over certain matters
as regards Davidson's courses along business
lines in their relations with those of Harvard.
For the past few years there has been an in-
creasing demand for courses along more
businesslike lines with a view toward special-
ization work and post-graduate courses. It is
for this general purpose that Professor Mal-
lot is visiting Davidson among many other
colleges of the South.

LONGER PERIOD FOR
(Continued from page one)

as a result. of increasing demands made by
the students. This has been the experience
of many other like institutions.
———«~«~=—<—~«&—_—_—_—_—<_<[S__—_—_———
who spoke here on Wednesday, October 12th,
on India: :

Dr. Shewmake pointed out-that since the
attendance at the lectures had been steadily
growing, which indicated an increasing in-
ida among the students in the lectures, high

jopes were held for an increased appropria-
tion.

The New
OR a HOPHONIC
VICTROLA

The Finest Musical Instrument
in the World

Prices $95 to $1,000 :
All Models in Stock---Easy Terme

NEW RECORDS

EVERY FRIDAY

ANDREW’S

MUSIC STORE
213 N, Tryon St. Charlotte, N.C.

CREDENZA, 6300.00

6
