Vol. XV.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON,

N. C., OCTOEER 13, 1927

“No. 5

Davileon Wins Over
Methodist Terriers for
Third Straight Victory

Offensive of Eoth Teams Strong—
“Defensive Weak

WIN 12-2

Muddy Field Does Not Check Speed
of Grey, Nesbit and Harrison

The Davidson College Wildcats booked one
more game on the right side of the ledger
when they defeated the Wofford Terriers on
Snyder Field, in Spartanburg, by a 12-2
score, Saturday afternoon. /*The outcome of
the game was largely due to the ability of
three Davidson backs to shake off enough
mud to sprint their way to the two touch-
downs. These men that showed unusual speed
were Captain Grey, Harrison and Nesbit.

Between splashes of mud and water when
the field became visible, strange things were
witnessed by four thousand drenched
spectators as the ball changed hands very
often due to fumbles.

the

This suspense furnish-
ed great interest, as there were many times
when a score by Wofford looked almost cer-
tain and many other times when the Wild-
cats would go withing scoring distance of
the goal, only to have breaks change the style
of play. The outcome of the game was never
‘sure until the whistle brought the fracas to
a close.

The adverse weather conditions caused the
game to be rather slow and draggy, but un-
der such conditions there were many spurts
by both teams that could be classed as sensa-
tional. After the kickoff the Davidson team
started a drive toward the Terrier- goal that
fell short as. the latter stiffened their de-
fense. Wofford took the ball and got away
to some good gains only to lose the ball on a
fumble which Davidson recovered on Wof-
ford’s 35-yard line. After three plays had
netted 10 yards, Dick Grey executed his best
performance of the season when“ he went
around left end for the remaining 25 yards
and touchdown. The kick for extra point
was wide.

(Continued on page 8)

Harper Scholarship
Cup Awarded Betas

The Harper Interfraternity Scholarship
cup for 1926-27 has been awarded to the
Phi Alpha chapter of Beta Theta Pi. This
honor was bestowed upon Beta Theta Pi fol-
lowing an announcement from the’ regis-
trar’s office that its members had the highest
composite average during the past year of
the national fraternities having chapters at
Davidson.

The competition was very keen as the Beta
Theta Pi scholastic average was only one-
tenth of a point above that of Kappa Alpha,
the average of Beta Theta being 86.32-and
that of Kappa Alpha being 86.22. Other fra-
terni ies finished in the following order: Pi
Kappr. Alpha, 85.98; Theta Upsilon Omega,
85.60; Phi Gamma Delta, 85.34; Kappa
Sigma, 84.31; Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 83.85;
and Pi Kappa, 82.82.
ties are’ included in this list as competition is
limited to these groups.

The Harper Interfraternity cup was given
in 1923 by Mr. James C. Harper, of Lenoir,
N. C., in memory of his father and grand-
father. The basis of award is that it shall
be given each year to that national fraternity
at Davidson whose members achieve the
highest scholastic proficiency, and it is to be-
come the permanent possession of the fra-
ternity winning it three times. The Sigma
Alpha Epsilon fraternity won it in 1924, the
Phi Gamma Delta fraternity in 1925, and the
Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity in 1926. Thus
far no fraternity has won the cup more than
once, so that the competition continues as
- strong as ever. .

x

Only national fraterni- |

|

|

The

War Dept. Honors
Davidson Officers

In a War Department-billetiiy just rectiv-
ed at Fourth Corps Area, 35 men from the
distinguished colleges honor military
the corps area
honor graduates. These young
designated having celled
training and their scholastic standing.

Davidson College was represented on this
list of honor graduates by Kelly Woodham,
captain, adjutant of the battalion, and Wil-
liam Green, captain of “C” Company, for
the scholastic year of 1926-1927,

For the entire United States but 155 honor
graduates were designated. Based only on

and

schools of were wamed as

men were

in military

as ex

the greatest enrollment therein, of any corps
(Continued on page 6)

N. C. Press Association
to Convene This Month
Editors of Ail Publications in Con-

clave at Raleigh from October
27th to 29th

The North Carolina Collegiate Press As-
sociation will hold its first semi-annual meet-
ing of the year on October 27, 28, and 29,
in Raleigh, with N. C. State and Meredith
as host and hostess. This is the fourteenth
semi-annual meeting that this highly active
association has held since its organization.
Each publication. which is a member is ex-
pected to be represented by two men, three
going if necessary. The Davidsonian, the
Quips and Cranks, and the Chameleon,
; all members of the association.
| The social side of the meeting is empha-
| sized together with the business and instruc-
| tive sides. State and Meredith plan to en-
| tertain the representatives in a royal manner ;
| buffets, banquets, sight-seeing tours and ad
| dresses and lectures: being planned. | Inci-
| dentally, it is also the week-end of the Caro-
| lina-State football game.

The present officers of the association are,
| Hanselle L. Hester, Duke University, presi-
| dent; David Carroll, University of North
| Carolina, Ist. vice-president; Ann Fayssoux
| Johnson, Queens, 2nd vice-president ; Frances

are

\G. Gibson, N. C. C. W., secretary; A. L.}

| Aydlett, State, treasurer. Hester won the
| presidency in a close race with Boyce Martin,
editor of The Davidsonian. These officers
were elected at the meeting held at N. C. C.
W. last spring.

[At the spring meeting it was decided to
send the Winston-Salem Journal a copy of
each paper of the association each week and
at the end of the year this daily will judge
the best college paper of the state. Last year
the Chronicle, of Duke, was adjudged best,
(Continued on page 8)

&

men elected to Omicron Delta Kap pa.

population, the proportion of the Fourth
Corps Area would have been but 17. With}
the largest number of R. O. T. C. units, and

|
}

From left to right:
. O'Neal and J. L. Robinson

‘

Garrison, Arbuckle, Robinson,
O’Neal, and Hancock Bid

COVETED HONOR

Martin, Arrowood, McRae, Nesb't,
Grey, Withers, and Lingle Already
Student Members

With an impressive ceremony marked by
dignity and solemnity, the Delta Circle of the
Omicron Delta Kappa “tapped” five leading

’

members of the Senior class on “Tap Day,’
Wednesday morning. The chapel
period was turned over to the nationally
famous leadership fraternity for this pur-
pose. The five men thus honored were: HH.
B. Arbuckle, J. 1. Robinson, P. J. Garrison,
M. C, O'Neal and D, W. Hancock.

All five of the honored men are conspic-
}ious and eminent in collegiate activities, each

entire

|
|

\

| one having taken an outstanding role in one
}or more lines of campus endeavor. Along
| with the other members of the Senior class
| who were initiated into the order of Omicron
| Delta Kappa last spring, they compose the
| prominent men on the local campus.

| H. B. Arbuckle, of Davidson, is a con-
| spicuous leader on the campus. He is major
of the Davidson R. O. T. C. battalion and a
member of Scabbard and Blade. Since his
entrance into college he has been on the
honor roll; last year making the highest
|average in college. In social activities he is
| very outstanding, being president of the Pan-
Hellenic Council and a member of the Pi
Kappa Alpha Fraternity. He was on the
Freshman football team and has played class
basketball for three years. His popularity
is shown by his elections to the “Y” cabinet,
| the presidency of the Eumenean Literary So-
ciety, and, in addition, several honorary fra-
ternities.

) D. W. Hanebck, of Bluefield, W. Va., is
| editor-in-chief the college annual, the
; Quips and Cranks; on whieh staff he has
| been employed since his entrance here. Be-
| side his outstanding achievement on the an-
! nual, he was class historian aid has worked
|on the Sanity Rare and Davidsonian staffs.
| He is a member of the Kappa Alpha social
| fraternity, and the International Relations
| Club and Delta Pi Kappa honorary fra-
| ternities, '

|} M. C. O'Neal, of Montgomery, Ala., has
(Continued on page 8)

| ANNUAL PICTURES

of

All students who have failed to meet
their appointments with the annual
photographer are requested either to
go to the annual office to have their
pictures taken or to hand in their
names to Bob Platt, at 204 Watts.
The photographer will be here for only
a few days longer. All boys who have
failed to fill in the schedules of their
vacant periods are requested to do so
at once. '

Omicron Delta Kappa Taps Five Prominent Men
in Dignified and Impressive Ceremony Wednesday

H. B. Arbuckle, P. J. Garrison, D. W. Hancock, M. C.

Two Alumni Make
College Anthology

Due to the efforts of R. TF. Jones and HH, LL.
Da-
vidson College now has an anthology of the

Shelby, two members of the class of '27,

best writers that have appeared in her pub-
lications since the early history of magazine
WO! k here.

Jones and Shelby have gone through the
files of the Annual, Davidsonian, and Maga-
zine, especially the Magazine, starting with
those dating back as*far as the eighties, and
have made a collection of those poems and
prose works which they considered to be of
literary merit, and have assembled them into
a complete collection of Davidson's best lit-
The finished manu-
script has been turned over to Professor
Irwin, who is hoping, under the auspices of
Sigma Upsilon or Blue Pencil Club, to see it

(Continued on” page 7)

0. Max Gardner Shea

at “Y” Vesper Service

erary accomplishments.

Prominent State Lawyer Lauds
Davidson College Spirit and
Denominational Schools in
State

O. Max Gardner, prominent lawyer of
Shelby, N.
governor, lauded the typical Presbyterian col-

C,, and probable candidate for

vespers in

He made
an urgent plea for the support of denomina-
tional schools,

lege spirit in his address at “Y”
Shearer Hall last Sunday evening.

Mr. Gardner took as the subject of his
talk, “A Wise and Understanding Heart.”
He showed that the college was founded by
men of wise ands understanding hearts aud
men who feared God.
lege for having kept that strain pure and un-
polluted, thus giving us as fine a spirit and

He praised this col-

as clean a campts~atmosphere as any school
of higher learning on the globe. He stated
that for this was the that

the reason fact

Honorary Frats Choose
Thirty-two Juniors and
Seniors to Membership

One Local and Six National\ Frater-
nities Elect. Neophytes

SEVEN FRATS BID

Invitations to Write Essays Ex-
tended to Fifteen Students by
International Relations Club

Honorary fraternity interests were revived
on the campus Wednesday morning when 32
men were bid by seven fraternities and invi-
tations were extended to 15 more to present
discussions from which ‘five will be chosen.
All honorary organizations united in issuing
the bids with the exception of the Biology
Club, which was granted permission by the
Honorary Fraternity Council to withhold is-
suance of bids until a later date.

Six bidding fraternities are national, while
the remaining two exist only on the local cam-
pus.
of forensics, literary, military, journalism,

These organizations, covering the fields

philosophy, chemistry, physics and interna-
tional relations, failed to bid as many men as
have been bid on previous occasions, but this
is probably due to the fact ‘that an exceed-
ingly large number was received last spring,
according to a statement by a member of the
Honorary Fraternity Council.

The Senior class contains a great majority
of those who were bid, there being 19 taken
from its ranks while Juniors claimed 13 of
the bids extended. This does not include the
number ‘selected by the International Rela-
tions Club to present papers, the five best to
be selected, which nine Seniors
and six Juniors.

Each organization consists of those men
both among th student body and the faculty
who are particularly interested along the lines
of its endeavor and extends invitations at a
time designated by the Honorary Fraternity
Council in the fall and again in the spring.
The present season marks the fourth united
extending of invitations under the direction
of the Council which usually occurs on the

(Continued on page 2)

Club to be Foe
to Advance Reading

mentioned

At meeting of Sigma Upsilon,
honorary English fraternity, plans were dis-
cussed for the formation of a club consisting
of students for the purpose of getting recent
literature. It was pointed out that the stu-
dents belonging to the club would have an
opportunity to get the latest books, and that
at present there. is no opportunity fer the
students to get the latest fiction except in
Charlotte.

The idea as outlined is very similar to the
Book-of-the-Month Club. The purpose is to
form a club of from 20 to 25 men, these men
to be assessed two dollars to. pay for the
books, This would provide for a sum large

a recent

here a diligent and sincere effort was made
to teach and train young men to incarnate |
in their lives the principles of the prayer of
Solomon when he asked God to give him a
and understanding that he
might discern between good and evil. When ,
a man can discern between good and evil, he
has learned the analysis of human character.

He continued, “This college was planted by
good men on favorable ground, and its roots
have gone deep into the subsoil of our Chris-
tian civilization.“ They have been watered |
by the sacrifice and fertilized by the prayers
of those devout men and women who have
feared God, kept His commandments, and
loved His children.” °

Although Mr. Gardner himself was edu-
cated at institutions supported by the state,
he declared.that he was convinced that the

(Continued on page 6)

“wise heart,”

| some members of the student bod

enough to purchase around 30 books during
the year. It was proposed to purchase per-
haps a dozen books to start with, which
would be circulated.among the club members
and as the year progressed new work af lit-
erature would be added. The club will not
be restricted to members of Sigma Upsilon,
but will be open to any member of the stu-
dent body having an interest in recent jitera-
ture. The books are to be selected by a com-
mittee composed of faculty members and
elected by
the club to serve on the committee. The
books for consideration are to be chosen from
the most recent reviews and publishers’
notices. They will be chosen from all dif- :
ferent types of literature, fiction, biographies,
and literature of thought.
According to Professor’ Cumming, the
main purpose of the club will be to supple-
(Continued on page 2) fh

