THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 22, 1927

3
—

Senior Class Holds Smoker at
New Maxwell-

|
On Wednesday night, September 14th, the)

Senior class held a smoker in the banquet |
room of the Maxwell-Chambers Hotel. |

Speakers for the night were chosen f rom |
prominent men connected with Davidson.
Professor Currie and Professor Foreman, of
the faculty, were two of the speakers.
Coaches “Tex’’ Tilson and “Monk” Mattox,
members of the Wildcat coaching staff, also
spoke. Coach Monk Younger was_unavoid-
ably detained and could not reach the meeting
in time to speak. ~

Caldwell Withers, president of the class,
announced the class committees as follows:
Commencement Program and Speakers

W. L. Lingle, Chairman; F. S. Wearn, C.
F, McRae, John Akers, and Boyce Martin.

Finance

Rod McRae, Class Treasurer, Chairman;
R. W. Carr, H. F. Peterson, J. L. McGee,
J. R. McCravery, J. C. Montgomery.

Entertainment

V. J. Guthery, Chairman; J. S. Foster,
R. S. Lowrance, Gordon McSwain, E...L.
Douglas, S. M. Withers, Tom Lothery, J. S.
Gray.

Gift

Bob Platt, Chairman; H. B. Arbuckle,
Mutt Stigler, J. S. McAlister, A. H. Mc-
Phaul, R. S. Link.

Insignia

Jeff Garrison, Chairman; Chalmers Carr,
Charlie Baskerville, Frank McCravry, Dun-
can McEachern.

TWO PEP MEETINGS

(Continued from page one)
being that of place. The out-door pep meet-
ings and the bon-fires should prove a great
success,

So far, the Freshmen have entered into
the fun and have caught that fighting Wild-
cat tradition in good spirit; The use of
megaphones and the/ additions of new and
better yells have beenia big improvement over
last year and along with the older yells,
which now are almost traditional, should
have a big effect on the pep.

Arrangements are being made to take the
band to as many out-of-town games as pos-
sible. Special trains and busses will be used
to transport the band and the student body
to many of the games, four busses having
already been filled for the Citadel game in
Gastonja Saturday.. Ernest Milton, Alumni
Secretary, will accompany the team to the
Florida. game at Jacksonville, and will send
back the results play by play. This method
will also be used to hear resylts from other
games, too far away to reach either by bus
or train. Special leased wires to the gym,
as were had last year for the N. C. State,
V. M. I. and other games, oraean

The United States annually expends $4,-
700,000 in looking up misdirected mail.

If you select your hat here
---at Hat Headquarters---

you, may ghocsefrorameart
shapes and new colors as
sponsored by Dabbs, a

recognized style leader.

$8 AND UP

TATE-BROWN Co.

Chambers Hotel

R.O.T.C. Cadets Are
Speedily Organized

Two weeks of regular college work being
completed, the R. O. T. C. unit has held the
scheduled drills: two hours on. Wednesdays
and one hour on Fridays. During these |
drills the battalion, companies and platoons |
have been ‘organized with remarkable speed
and instruction begun, the upperclassmen in-
structing the freshmen in the fundamentals
of the course. The freshmen showed ability
in picking up the old Army style. For the
coming month the battalion will do intensive

work in the close order drill and hope to
have the new men in shape for the first |
parade, which is scheduled for the afternoon |
of October 5th. The.Sophomers are getting |
back into shape rapidly after a furlough of |
three months. In the advanced course this |
year there are 65 men, 27 Seniors and 38)
Juniors, while the basic course has about the |
same number as usual. There are 140 Sopho- |
mores and 206 Freshmen. Captain Daugh- |
erty statés that the rifle team will be started
earlier this fall than heretofore.

Captain Elkins and Professor Cullum are
attempting to reorganize and renovate the
R. O. T. C. Band. There is a necessity of a
larger number. of men who can play some
instrument well. They want to make it a)
college band as well as a R. O. T. C. Band. |
A plea is made not to play in the band merely
for the purpose of “getting by” in the R. O. |
T. C., but to put forth effort to make a real |
“Davidson College Band” which will help the |
football team in its fight t4 retain the cham>|
pionship. aN

The band has obtained transportation for
about 15 men to go to the game with Citadel
at Gastonia. There are 20 other members |
who should go if they can obtain a way.

A request is made to the town people to try |
to provide a way to get the band to Gastonia
to support the Wildcats.

Notice is given that the rifle assignments
are posted on the bulletin in front of the |
Armory. |

RHODES SCHOLARS

Recent alumni and upper ,classmen
are hereby reminded that, Rhodes
Scholars will be appointed this fall in
the states of Kentucky, Alabama, Ar-
kansas, Colorado, Georgia, Mississippi,
and Texas. A Davidson man resident
of any of these states will apply for
appointment in his own state. Men
are eligible who were born between the
first of October, 1903, and the first of | |
October, 1909. The Committee on
Selection in each state is expected to
zive greatest stress on scholarship with
due consideration being given char-
acter, leadership, public spirit, athletic
interests, etc. The appointment is for
a period of three years, the appointce |
to receive four hundred pounds sterling
each year. |

—
2 of

There will be no appointments this
year in the states of North Carolina,
South Carolina, West Virginia, Flor-
ida, or Louisiana.

All Davidson men who are interested | |
should communicate before the 13th of | |
September with Professor Thos. W.
Lingle, who represents Rhodes Schol-
arships at Davidson College.

| ell,

New Schedule Promises
Interesting Season for

Wildcat Debating Team

Five Varsity Debaters Will Compose
Nucleus for Northern and
Southern Trips

. When school opened this fall, eyes were
furned to every phase of student activities.
Many eyes are now turned to see what the
prospects are for the coming debating season.
The outlook for the Wildcats is very bright,
despite the fact that they have a very hard
schedule this year.

With the combination of those men who
were on the team last year, and those men
who were on the Freshman team, the debat-
ing question seems settled. The men who
were on the varsity last year, and who will
probably compose a nucleus around which the
team will be built this year, are H. T. Pow-
L. K. Pritchett, Tyree Dillard, W. K.
Pritchett, and Bob Grady. Beside these ex-
perienced debaters there comes a quintet from
the Freshman team of last year. These are:
Alex Eddleman, Murray Christian, Miller
and Carl Pritchett. These men together with
| the men who were on the team last year, will

| be the backbone of the team.

| The debating schedule for the Wildcats this
| year is a very hard one, A trip will be made
|to the North where the Davidson team will
| argue against George Washington University
| and two other colleges, which have not been
settled on as yet. Another team will make a
trip to the South, meeting Emory, Sewanee,
and one other school. Both these teams will
meet with strong opposition, but they will of
course be expected to bring back victories, as

jis the custom of any Davidson team.

Beside these two trips, the debating teams
from Rutgers, Willia mand Mary and Duke
will invade the Wildcat lair, and will attempt
to beard the Wildcat on home grounds, a
thing which is well nigh impossible to do. A
different team will represent Davidson on
each of the two trips, and at home. With
the members of the varsity and the five new
men from the Freshman team of last year,
Davidson should be well protected from the

| opposing teams and will come out well in the
| lead, as they have done in past years.

Two debates with the Freshman team of
the University of North Carolina have been
arranged for the Fresh debaters. Two men
will represent cach team, one team debating
at Davidson with one team and another at
Chapel Hill at the same time. Try-outs for
the coveted positions will be held some time
in the early spring.

WILDCAT-CADET SCRAMBLE

(Continued from page one)

Reeder—169 ~.--------------- Wearn—144
| End

King-—178* 2 2 ese es Hampton—185
| Tackle

Hig¢-—-189) 23025 We eee ee Laws—207
| Tackle

| Howard—155 ~-----------. McColgan—165

Guard

Thompson—187 ---.-.-.--..-- Melton—163
Guard

Skelton—186 ....---------- Red Grey--155
| . Center

Capt. Blanding—153 -.--_--_- Wilson—160

Quarterback

Armstrong—147 ~_-. Capt. Dick Grey—155
H Halfback
| Harris—132 ---------------- Harrison—144
| Halfback
| Ingram—177 -.sc2-.---.-2.--- Nisbet—160
Fullback

A cordial welcome is

men as well

by

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

DAVIDSON, N. C.

extended to the new

as the old ©

come to

HERP’S a reason why more college men

Johnson’s Barber Shop

THREE DOORS BEYOND THE BANK

a ”

|
|
|

|
|

MUSICAL DEPARTMENT PLANS
LARGE AND VARIED PROGRAM

Ministerial Band is

Addressed by Prof.

Dr. C. M. Richards was the chief speaker
at the second meeting of the Ministerial
Band Sunday afternoon. Arrangements for
a banquet at the Maxwell Chambers Hotel
were also formulated.

A very interesting talk was given by Dr.
Richards on the subject, “As Thy Servant
was busy here and there, He was gone.” He
spoke of the trust and responsibilities resting

| upon the members of the band not only when

they are practising their life-work, but when
present in college. As candidates for the
ministry you are leaders in the spiritual life
of the college, said the speaker. He con-
tinued in saying that the main responsibility
upon the ministerial student at college was
to learn the Word of God in order that they
may be aided thereby in bringing the lost to
Christ. They should not be busy “here and
there” with other things and let the unsaved
be “gone” without the saving grace of Christ.

Only“a few Freshmen were present at the
second meeting of the band. Out of the 26
ministerial students of the Fresh class. only
seven were present. It is hoped that the
whole number will join the band as active
members,

A committee consisting of Allan Frew,
McQueen and Gus Cox was appointed to
draw up plans for the banquet to be held to-
morrow night at 9:00 o'clock.

Heat Delays Class
Basketball Tryouts

Just as soon as the weather. gets a little
cooler, class basketball will begin. It has
been so hot that Coach “Monk” thought it
inadvisable to start practice at’ once. How-
ever, within the next month, the class basket-
ball season will be well under way.

According to Charlie Carson, varsity bas-
ketball manager, the games and practices will
be conducted as they were last year. Each
class will elect a manager who will have
charge of his team. Then certain nights of
the week will be set aside for the practices
of the various teams,

Much interest has been displayed in the
class teams heretofore, and good material is
sometimes discovered during the games.

Manager Carson plans to arrange the
schedule soon, so the games can be played as
soon as the teams are in shape,

For some time, especially during the past
few years, a large number of students and
others interested in the college and its’ prog-
gress as a literary institution have been look-
ing forward to a course or series of courses
in the fine arts.

With the addition of a professorship of
musical instruction the first step towards this
goal has been realized. This step has not
been taken thoughtlessly or carelessly, but is
the result of years of consideration and then;
being inevitable, had to come.

One of the evidences of the step is the ad-
dition to the college curriculum’ of a course
dealing with the subject. Another of the
evidences is the addition to the college of a
course in the “History and Appreciation of
Music,” It will be taught again next year
in connection with another course, “An Ap-
preciation of Art.”

The college has been fortunate in securing
the services of Professor Cullum and has
furnished for his use the rooms on the bot-
tom floor of the historic Eumenean Lit-
erary Society Hall. One is to be used as a
class room. It faces on the front side towards
Phi Hall and contains a small piano and vic-
tory for use in instruction. The other room is
to be fitted as a studio and will contain a
piano for practice and other fittings as neces-
sary.

Professor Cullum comes to us from Hart-
ford, Conn., where he has been director of
music at Trinity College. His career is a
colorful one. He was reared under the in-

| fluence of English Church Choirs and studied

extremely abroad. For a time he was in
London, England, with the Tonic Solfa Col-
lege. Mrs. Cullum is no mean musician her-
self. She comes to the college community as
a leading oratorio and church’ singer in Chi-
cago.and the Middle West.

Together with his capacity of a teacher in
the college Professor Cullum will have
charge of the musical organizations of the
campus. He is also interested in other
things.

In a discussion he said he would like very
much to find as many as possible of the tra-
ditional songs of the Alma Mater, songs sung
by Davidson College students dating back to
the time the college began to function, With
the help and interest of the alumni of the

‘college he hopes to make a collection of songs

that were dear to the hearts of some David-
son men and sacred to the history of the col-
lege. At present there are only two college
songs, “College Ties,” and “O Davidson.”
Another subject he wishes to develop is
(Continued on page 8)

Come to See Us for Your Shoes, Shirts
Ties, Hats and Caps.

New shipments received weekly.

give us a trial. Your business always appreciated.

THE GLOBE CLOTHING CO.

Come in and

what is new and
wear.

Upper Class Men Know
Their BRAEBURNS

To you men who are just entering the
halls of learning for the first time, we
extend an invitation to drop in and see

To upper classmen we merely
say, the Braeburnsare here. :. : :

$35 to $50
MELLON’S

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

proper for campus

