THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 1, 1927

i
Hi
Ret

ote Sport Talk -:-

News and Views of
Wildcat Events

By Raymond Lake...

At the first of the year, we made the state-
ment that, though the Wildcats might not
come out dn the top in the race for state hon-
ors, they would not come out on the bottom
of the list. It seems, however, that our pre-
diction was not of very much value. Several
sport writers at the first of the year placed
the Wildcats on the bottom, and we’ll have to
hand it to them on their predictions.

In spite of the fact that they came out on
the bottom of the list, however, the Wildcats
have not and will not admit*defeat. They’ll
be in there next year fighting just as hard and
making just as much trouble for their op-
ponents as they have made in the past. They
may not have and probably will not have a
wealth of material next year, but they will
have the same old Davidson spirit and the
same two unbeatable coaches, and that, if
you don’t already know it, is a combination
which would.be hard to beat even with no
material at all.”

In behalf of the team of 1927, be it said
that although they did not come out at the
head of the list, they did their best,:and what
more could we ask of them than this? No
one can ever say of them that they quit.
Even when they were up against the most
overwhelming odds, they fought to the finish,
and their opponents, though victorious, can
never say that they were not up against a
fighting team, a team worthy of Davidson,
and one that at all times upheld the traditions
of Davidson. We congratulate the members
of this fighting Wildcat team, and as to those
who have played their last game for their
alma mater, they have left vacant a place that
will be extremely hard to fill,

There are some members of this team who
deserve special mention. If the Athletic Edi-
tor felt competent to pick an all-state team,
there are two Wildcat players who would
certainly be given berths on the team. Johnny
Melton would be given 4 place at guard, and
Hugh Arrowood would be put in his old
place at end. As the first of these, in our
opinion, there is not a better guard.anywhere
in the state, or in many other states, than
that fighting Wildcat, Johnny Melton. If
he had not been hurt he would in afl prob-
ability have made the all-state team. In
every game he has been in, he has been in
everyq play and has: put more fight and pep
into the team than probably any other mem-
ber of the team.

As for Arrowood; he has also been in
every play and has played in a manner
worthy of a true Wildcat. His playing has
been consistent, and the gains around his end
have been few. His playing has not been
spectacular, but as has been said, he has
played consistently, and has done his part
toward putting the Wildcats on the top again.

Another Wildcat, who, though he has not
received any votes for the all-state team,
nevertheless déserves all the praise we can
give him, is Captain Grey. In our opinion,
Dick is just as good as any man on the all-
state team, and if picks for the all-state team
were made on the power and ability of the
player rather than on what he has accom-
plished during the year, Dick would have
been put on the team. He could not show up
as well this year because he did not have as
good a team behind him, and no matter how
good a player may be, he has to have a strong
team behind hi mto show what he’s got. An-
other probable disadvantage was the worry
and responsibility which the captaincy of a
team carries with it. Even though he did not
receive any votes for the all-state team, we
realize and appreciate what Dick has done
.for us. His: praises cannot be sung too
loudly.

We spoke of the lack of spirit in the stu-
dent body several weeks ago in this column,
but most of the shortcomings were made up
for in the Duke game Thursday. The cheer-
ing was continued to the end even in the face
of the overwhelming defeat, and was even
continued after the game was over. The

cheer leader is to be commended on his spirit |.

| in keeping up the fight and the student body
for their continued cheering and the appre-
ciation they showed by carrying Captain Grey
off the field. rare

Dr. Cumming—“What ‘were Webster's
, 5 pr: EU tad

tymosis, Zymotic, Zy-

Final Games Determine
Standing of Big Fivers

Wildcats Lose to Duke and Take
Cellar Position

Once again comes the time of year when
the worn moleskins and soiled jerseys are
stored away in the stock rooms for a little
rest period, and at this time the old “stove
league” begins to function. Talk goes back
over the past grid season, all-state teams are
picked, and the final standings of the various
contenders are determined. The season of
1927 held no pot of gold for Monk Younker’s
Wildcats. The erstwhile state champs, weak-
ened by the loss of many stars from the
championship eleven, floundered in the cellar
of the so-called Big Five, and though the
Cats fought hard in every single game, at
times playing brilliantly, they were unable to
down the heavier and more experienced state
elevens. The Demon Deacons of Wake For-
est, also experiencing a tough season, man-
aged to tie Davidson, largely through the
fine individual playing ‘of Johnny Cox, and
this tie game, 13-13, was the nearest that Da-
vidson could come to a win in the Big Five.
N. C. State, with a whole team of stars, and
led by the indomitable McDowall, swept
through every team in the state and won
their first title in many years. Duke gave
State the fight of her life, and there are a
great many folks who still think the Duke
eleven is equal to that of State. Duke lost
her great chance when she allowed the Wolf-
pack to trample her 20-18, and then on the
next week allowed a supposedly weaker
Carolina team to overwhelm her by an 18-0
count. This game was the biggest upset of
the year in the Big Five. Carolina grew
stronger as the season progressed and drew
herself up to a tie for second plate. Wake
Forest got off to a flying start by walloping
the Tar Heels, but they fell an easy victim
to State and Duke. As has been ‘stated be-
fore, Davidson failed to even break into the
win column of the Big Five, something that
has not happened in many years, The high
spot of the Wildcat’s season was their slash-
ing win over Florida, early in the season.

Final. Standings:

Won Lost Tied Pct.

Ne Si stateveccasc= 4 0 1.000
Carolina <.22.--. 2 2 500
Dukes st sss 25 soc Zia .500
Wake Forest ----- 1 2 1 333
Davidson _-------- 0 3 1 .000

Student Golf Team
Ties Faculty Stars

In a very close match over the Davidson
course recently ,the members of the Davidson
golf team tied a team representing the fac-
ulty. The match was well played, and the
results were in doubt during the entire match.

For the faculty, Professor Blythe and Pro-
fessor Fulcher played the best game. Pro-
fessor Blythe turned in a medal score of 39
for the first nine holes, a very good score
considering the condition of the course. Mar-
tin, of the college team, led his teammates
by defeating Dr. Watts by 7 up and 6 to go.
Dr. Watts played consistent golf, but Martin
played exceptionally well and won by a de-
cisive score. “

The complete scores were:

Mills defeated Dr. C. K. Brown, 5 up and
4 to go. .

Martin defeated Dr. Watts, 7 up and 6.

Professor Blythe defeated Lingle, 3 up
and 2.

' Professor Fulcher defeated Myers, 4 and 3.

Foursomes :

Mills and Lingle defeated Brown and
Blythe, 1 up.

Watts and Fulcher defeated Martin and
Myers, 2 up.

Composite score, 9-9,

rs

ADDRESS FEATURES ©

(Continued from page 1)
England offered, of light mounted: craft,
because her. possessions are too widely sep-
arated to be protected by such vessels. Since
it was decided that the only means of insur-
ing world peace is by means of absolute
national self-confidence, no agreement was
reached, therefore this conference was also a
failure,

CAPT. DICK GREY

Captain Gray Concludes
Spectacular Grid Career

1927 Captain Played Last Game
Against Duke

Captain Dick Grey has played his last game
for the Davidson Wildcats. Dick, the back-
bone of the Wildcat football team, has ended
his gridiron career at Davidson College.

During the four years he has been at Da-
vidson, Dick has played a stellar brand of
ball in every game in which he has taken
part. A football player unexcelled and a real
friend every student at Davidson, he has
won his way into._the hearts of every man in
the student body. His teammates hold him
in high esteem, as evidenced by the fact that
he was elected to captain the team of 1927.
He was always a dangerous runner on the
offense, and the opposing team could never
tell when he would start off on one of the
amazing end runs for which he is famous.
He proved to be a hard-driving back, never
giving up until he was downed. On the de-
fensive Dick was a hard tackler and seldom
missed his man.

Dick’s playing during his three years of
varsity football, and his year on the fresh-
man team, has been nothing short of remark-
able. He was a triple threat man that could
kick, throw passes that went like a bullet, and
was always a consistent ground gainer.
That his prowess has been recognized all
over the state and in the South is proven by
his numerous choice as all-state halfback last
year. His ability to boot field goals was
nothing short of wonderful as was shown by
the fact that, he led the state in this depart-
ment of the game. In 1926, he kicked six
goals,'one of them tying a game, two of
them winning games, and one of them clinch-
ing a game.

With the passing of Dick Grey, Davidson
loses one of the finest football players and

a uniform. A football player par excellence,
a friend to everyone, and above all, a Chris-
tian man. Well might it have been said as
Dick left the gridiron for the last time, “The
King is dead. Long live the King.”

‘DAVIDSON NAMES

(Continued from page 1)
chosen from this group for their defensive
as well as offensive powers. Childress is
probably the ‘best on offense with Arrowood
the best seen in these sections on defense.
Goodwin, of State, was barely nosed out by
Arrowood. Sapp, of Carolina, and Bennett,
also coming.in for honorable mention.

At tackle, Phelps is possibly the most out-
standing man in the state. Thompson would
make an excellent mate for him both on this
season’s record and during the past seasons.
Morehead, of Carolina,would be able to fit
in Thompson's place were he a bit more ag-
gressive. Culp, of Duke, and Laws, of Da-
vidson, are, also mentioned.

_ Nicholson, all-state choice for guard last

ine of Duke Team.
High Scorer in Big Five

one of the finest men who ever stepped into] .

Has Twice as Many Points as
Nearest Competitor

Jan Jankoskie, the low-swung, pile-driving

fullback who plays for Duke, easily led the
scoring in the Big Five. Making 18 touch-
downs for a total of 109 points, he crossed
the last white line more than any two of his
competitors. Although he is only a Sopho-
more, his unanimous selection for all-state
surprised’ no one.

Of the next four players, Warren and
Goodwin, of State; Adams, of: Duke, and
Gray, of Davidson, only one was able to
make a place, on the all-state team. Good-
win, of State, tied with Sapp, of Carolina,
for end. However, he scored five times as
many points as did Sapp.

McDowall, of State, whose exceptionally
fine play won him the honor-of. being the
only’ North Carolina man who was on the
all-Southern Conference squad, came next on
the roster of point makers. He made two
remarkably long runs, one of 60 and the
other of 48 yards, this year. Both of these
runs were made at the expense of Duke.

McDowall was unfortunate in that his
votes for all-Southern were divided between
halfback and quarter. Due to this he was
placed on the second team, instead of on the
first, that berth going to Davidson.

The ten leading scorers in the Big Five are
as follows:

Player College TD. FG. EX. Ttl.

Florida ------- 20 Wash. & Lee--- 7
VieMi ls eodosu 122 Veta cosesos 9
Carolina ------ 14 Virginia ~----- 13
State cacessees 34 South Carolina. 0
Citadel -------- 7. (PiGrsscesecds 6
Wofford ------ 43 Newberry ----- 20
Wake Forest -. 0 Mercer ------- 34
Efon .2222-227 ~ 9 Lenoir: Rhyne-: 6-

ter had he been physically able to play in
more games of the season than he did.
Metts, of State, is also worthy of mention.

Buie is chosen over Cox for quarter due to
the fact that he playegiuch a brilliant game
against Davidson Thanksgiving. However,
Cox showed his ability as pilot in the Wake
Forest-Davidson scrap at Greensboro. Wil-
son, of Davidson, comes in for mention, but
his carrying ability for appreciable gains
eliminates him.

And here is the problem, with an array
of backs such as Grey, McDowall, Warren,
Young, Buie, Nisbet, and Whisnant, any
scribe might be forgiven for throwing up his
hands in dismay. McDowall is the outstand-
ing player of the state, his play in the Da-
vidson, Carolina, and Duke games stamping
him as:the best offensive player the state has
seen in many a day. He would be given the
position of captain on this selection. Some-
one is certain to yell when Grey is picked as
his running mate. It is true that Grey has
not risen to the heights that he reached in
last year’s season. But due to the fact that
he was placed on the official all-state last
year and has played some excellent games
this year it is believed that he should be the
man chosen. Warren, of State, is the next
man in line and is probably on a par with
Grey. Young, of Carolina, is very close to
the top also. Whisnant, Nisbet and Harrison
deserve honorable mention.

Again we have a walkaway in the fullback
position. What McDowall is to State, Jan-
koskie is to Duke. His ripping line plunges
have been a feature of the Duke team the
entire season. Few teams have been able to
stop “Jan” for any‘length of time. He

Jankoski—Duke --_--. 18 #40 1. 109| would fit in with the fast backs mentioned
Warren—State -.-..-- 8 0 1 49|above perfectly. For the halves when several
Goodwin—State -.--_- 6 0 0  36|yards are needed, for Jankoskie when a yard
Adams, Duke -------- 6 0 0 36jor so for first down or touchdown, a quarter
Grey—Davidson ~----- 5 1 4  37|would have a backfield that he would not
Buie—Duke ---_-----__ 4 0 6  30thesitate to call on any of them. Since Nisbet
Coxe—Wake Forest-. 4 0 f 25/filled the position of fullback on the David-
Young—Carolina -.-__ 4 0 0 24|son team, he should probably be mentioned
Jordan—State -.-._--- 4 0 O 24\|here. With a few more pounds of weight
McDowall—State -_-- 3 0 5  23)|this man could compare favorably with the

year, is again placed on the selection by this
paper. Ferris, of Carolina, is placed with
him due to the brilliant game he put up
against the Wildcats. Melton, of Davidson,

was handicapped by injuries, or would have

made a stronger bid for a berth than he has
done. Schuler, of Carolina, is also worthy
of mention.

Schwartz, of Carolina, is unquestionably
the choice for center. , His great playing -in
all the games of the season, a veritable
tower of strength in the Carolina line, he has

made his mark in North Carolina football.
Grey, of Davidson, would have shown up bet-

Duke star. But lacking that last bit of re-
serve of weight he cannot come up to him.
He has played some brilliant games this sea-
son, however. Poletz, of High Point, should
:also be mentioned for this position.

It could be said, but with a great deal of
questioning, that this team would give a good
account of itself if it was placed to play in
California instead of the eleven which is to
be sent from the Southern Conference. It is
a well rounded team, a sturdy line, fast ends,
a brainy quarter, a ripping fullback and triple
threat halves. But this will not save it from
merciless criticism as to why so-and-so was
placed on the team rather than someone else.

Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach
and Goldsmith

Myers Hardware an

d Sporting Goods Co.

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Sy

CHARLOTTE
KNOXVILLE

ate
W Cafeterias

are catering to you

(ATLANTA Soon) re

ASHEVILLE
RALEIGH

Charlotte, N. C.

banking needs. :

Trust Department under
Government.

Capital, surplus, profits,
R. A. DUNN, President

C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President

__ The Commercial National Bank

Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your

4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit.
Make us your Executor.

etc., over-$1,300,000.00.
OFFICERS

FULLER HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier

Founded 1874

supervision of United States

I, W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
J.B. DOAR, Acst. Cashteri
M. T. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier

