TicDA VD SONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

=
Vol. XV.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 3, 1927

No. 8

MILITARY PARADE AND
OUTDOOR PROGRAM WIN
FAVOR OF EARLY CROWD

Welcome Exténded Visitors by
Branch and Dr. Martin—Prom-
ment Alumni Discuss Football
from Various Angles

Featuring the Homecoming Day pro-

gram on the 29th were the exercises held
in the Richardson memorial stadium,
which was officially {presented to the col-
lege on last Homecoming day by the
Richardson brothers of Greensboro. This
part of the day’s program was gotten un-
der way immediately after_the parade by
the R. O, T. C. battalion.

Introduced by Harllee Branch, assist-
ant alumni secretary of the college, Rev.
E. D. Brown, of the class of ’93, rendered
the invocation. This was followed by
the singing of “O! Davidson,” by the as-
semblage.

Speaking for the college as a whole,
Branch made a short address of welcome
to all the visitors and their friends and
especially to all the alumni present. He
‘chose as his subject “Davidson Songs,”
and brought out their value in moulding
college tradition and spirit. “Especially,”
he said, “is the old college song, ‘College
Ties’ one that always remains dear to’the
hear of all Davidson alumni, making them
conscious of the fact, as the years pass,
that college ties formed at Old Davidson
can, in reality, never be broken.”

In behalf of the students and faculty of
the college Dr. W. J. Martin, president,
heartily welcomed all of the old men back
to Davidson. “Your coming back today,”
said Dr. Dr. Martin, “means to us what

(Continued on page 8)

Dr. Sullivan Talks
at Vespers Sunday

Dr. Charles E. Sullivan, the speaker at
“Y" Vespers last Sunday, held the com-
plete attention of his audience with the
beautiful expression and sound advice
of his talk. Dr. Sullivan, of Ninety-Six,
S. C., was introduced by Dr. Hood, as be-
ing one of the most prominent ministers
of his section,

Dr. Sullivan stated that he felt highly
honored and especially privileged in be-
ing asked to speak to “the greatest edu-
cational institution of the Church” and
especially to an audience of young col-
lege men because it is upon them that a
great responsibility rests at the present.
His topic, “The Hermit of the Hills,” was
chosen so as to bring into example the
life and works of the great prophet
Elijah, who faced a problem in Israel very
much the same as every Christian man is
facing today.

Interspersing his remarks with bits of
pleasing wit, Dr. Sullivan, developed his
theme by comparing events and opinions
in the days of Elijah withethose of the
present time. The breaking of the Sab-
bath in the reign of Ahab and Jezebel by
pleasure-seekers is repeating itself in
America now and the peaceful and holy
Sabbath of the past is threatened unless
the rising generation will take rapid and
forceful action, The desolation of the
Church, the disobedience of the law, the
scramble for money, the indulgence in
pleasure and high living, the breaking of
the Holy Day, and the drifting of men

(Continued on page 8)

Tuesday Night Witnesses Termination
Of Rushing As Seventy-one Men Pledge

Seven weeks of intense rushing were
brought to a close Monday night as 80 men
were given bids to membership by the eight
national and’ three local fraternities at Da-
vidson. This is the smallest number of
Freshmen that have been pledged on bid
day in a number of years.

Bids were distributed by representatives
of the Pan-Hellenic, at 10:30 Monday night.
From this hour through the following day
silence was enjoined upon the members of
the various fraternities and the Freshmen.
This day of silence was over at 7:30 Tues-
day night, when conferences were arranged
between the various fraternities and the men
to whom they had issued bids. After these
conferences each man proceeded to the house
of his accepted fraternity, where he was
pledged. :

The following is a list of the pledges ‘and
their home addresses :

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: H. S. Monroe, Jr.,
Charlotte; W. A. Armfield, Asheboro; H. A.
McAllister, Jr., Lumberton; G. M. Lupton,
Lynchburg, .Va.; S. S. Wiley, Salisbury; T.
W. Griffin, Quincy, Fla.; R. C. Gay, Little
Rock, Ark.; Harry Mixson, Valdosta, Ga.;
J. A. Jones, Laurinburg; G. L. Weeks,
Rocky Mount; J. E. Stoud, Goldsboro; ,G:
W. Williams, Lancaster, S. C.; A. W. Mc-
Clain, Lumberton; Hector McClain, Laurin-
burg. j :
Beta Theta Pi—R. A. Gillam, Gastonia;
P. W. Glidwell, Reidsville; W. C. Knight,
Greensboro; W. L. Poe, Rock Hill; H. F.
McMillan, Atlanta; J. A. Cannon, Jr., Con-
cord; W. A. Mason, Kings Mountain; J. M.
McNeely, Charlotte.

Kappa Alpha—M. R. McCallum, Dillon,

(Continued on page 3)

Press Convention
Meets at Raliegh

Over 125 delegates, representing every col-
lege publication in North Carolina, met in
Raleigh last week-end for the annual con-
vention of the North Carolina Press Asso-
ciation. The association was entertained by
State College and Meredith.

The convention was divided into two main
units, the one composed of those interested
in annuals, and the other of those interested
in weekly and monthly publications, Each
unit opened the convention with a banquet,
where introductions were made ‘and delegates
welcomed by Raleigh citizens, H. L. Hester,

president of the association, expressed the'
'

desire that the convention would materially
aid the various delegates to improve their
publications.

Immediately after the banquet Thursday
night, the members were entertained at the
State theater at a theater party.

Friday morning the first: business session
was held, with H. L. Hester, editor of the
Duke Chronicle, presiding. ‘Reports were
given by each of the publications represented.
W. L. Bost, Raleigh correspondent of the
Greensboro News, was the speaker at this
session,

The program Friday afternoon began with
a luncheon given by the Raleigh News and
Observer and State College, at the Yarbor-
ough Hotel. Dr. Eugene C. Brooks, presi-
dent of State College, was the speaker. The
afternoon business meeting was held immedi-
ately following the luncheon, and: this was
followed with a tour of Raleigh.’ Late Fri-

(Continued on page 3)

Chas. Paddock Guest of
Y.M.C.A. When “Fastest

Human” Visits Davidson

| Speaks in Shearer Hall Friday Night
| INTRODUCTION BY BRANCH

|Present Lack of National Athletic
| Prowess Due to Unwillingness

| to Train

| peeMaas cae
| Charlie Paddock, world famous athlete,
lappearing in Shearer Hall Friday night,
}October 28th, gave a splendid and en-
| Baging lecture on “Playing the Game,”
| which he made especially interesting by
his numerous anecdotes drawn from the
| personal experience of a varied and fas-
| cinating career.

Mr. Paddock was introduced to the au-
dience by Harllee Branch being a
man who, as America’s finest
athletes, has exemplary and
diversified life.

The keynote of Paddock’s talk was the
very great need and benefit of a nation’s
direct interest in sports.

as
of
an

one
lived

At the first of the speech he told-of his
own interest in all phases of athletics and
of the importance of sports in American
life today. By giving the examples of
| ancient Greece and Rome he showed the
important part that athletics have played
in the rise and fall of nations,+for he
noted that when Greece and Rome were
at the height of their culture and power,
their ahtletics were also at the highest
jstage of development; and that when
| sports and physical culture declined, the
downfall of the country resulted.

Paddock then gave a specific example
of the benefit derived from sports by dis-
cussing football. He told of the 20,000
institutions in America that are puttting
out teams and of the good that is derived
from the training in teamwork and sac-
rifice that makes the game worth while.

He explained the present lack of the
former athletic prowess in America as
due to the unwillingness of the youth of
the country to train and sacrifice to make
themselves. stronger physically. The
United States has lost the Davis cup be-

(Continued on page 2)

Two New Wildcats Take

Place of Former Mascot

One Cat Purchased and Other Given
| to College -

After many efforts, the lair of the
Wildcat mascot, just east of the gym has
been rehabitated. Two hale and hearty
wildcats have been procured for David-
son by Spike McGee. These two cats,
‘“Tom” and “Min,” are worthy successors
to Faithful “Felix,” who died during the
past summer.

Spike has tried since the beginning of
school to locate a healthy wildcat who
would stand as a worthy symbol of the
Davidson spirit. He procured a cat, as
the Davidsonian announced, some few
weeks ago, but on account of illness the
cat was not shipped and Spike was forced
to turn to’other sources.

“Min,” whose native haunts were in
western North Carolina, was recently
purchased by the student body for the
sum of thirty-five dollars. “Min” is a
healthy cat, a yearling, and weighs thirty
pounds. Shortly after her arrival and
debut at the Wake Forest game, “Tom”
came,as a gift from Mr. Hansell Watt, of

Monticello, Fla.

(Continued on page 5)

~

WILDCATS BOW BEFORE
V. M. L CADETS, 20-0, IN
HOME-COMING SCRAMBLE

Debate Tryouts to
be Staged Dec. 5th

All debate tryouts for places on var-
‘sity teams will be held December 5th,
according to Henry Powell, head of the
Forensic Council.

A new plan for the selection of varsity
debaters is being put into operation this
year through the united efforts of the
faculty and the Forensic Council. In-
stead of holding a separate preliminary
to determine the participants in each de-
bate, a squad of fifteen men will be
chosen at one time and from this, squad
will come the debaters for the season.

The members of last year’s debating
teams: Henry Powell, W. K. Pitchett,
Robert Grady, Tyree Dillard, and L. K.
Pritchett, by reagon of last year’s work
are to be considered on the debating
squad, This leaves ten men to be chosen
from the remainder of the student body.
Competition is certain to be keen, since
there are quite a number of last year’s
freshman team as well as juniors and
seniors who will be trying for a place,

The tryout speech is to be limited to
five minutes in order to keep the com-
petition within a reasonable length of
time and to encourage a very thorough
preparation on the part of those speak-
ing.

The question for the tryouts will be:
Resolved, that the United States should
enact by national legislation a uniform
marriage and divorce law. This is a
question of vital interest in this age of

(Continued on page 8)

7,000 See Game as Cats Pile up
Fourteen First Downs to Oppo-
nent’s Five—Final Punch
Lacking

The hitherto unruffled goal line of
Richardson field which has so gloriously
been’ guarded by the Davidson College
Wildcats was marred Saturday afternoon
by three well defined paths as the Fly-
ing Squadron of Virginia Military ‘In-
stitute marched across it for a 20-0 vic-
tory, piling up more points than the total
of all opponents of the Wildcats in their
own lair for the past decade.

The Davidson team fought a_ bitter
battle but after a fast opening quarter it
was_.a losing battle as they played can-
sistent football in the middle of the field
only to be held as they neared the
trenches of the soldiers, The sun would
shine brightly for them while in no man’s
land but as they neared the territory of
the enemy the thrusts of four marksmen
in the form of the cadet backfield caused
them to wilt away.

It was the great defensive work of that
backfield that kept the Presbyterians
from wrecking devastation in their ranks
as the Cats drove through the first de-
fence consistently for fourteen first
downs to five marked up by the Cadets.
But with great strategy did the V. M. I.
team strike and on three occasions they
had possibilities of scoring-and each time
they went over for touchdowns.

The game opened with the Wildcats
having the edge and they went through
the line for first downs and seemed to be
nearing the opponent’s goal when they

(Continued on page 8)

Stunt Night Proves Gala Affair as
Program Presents Varied Amusements

College Delegates
Go to Conference

The annual meeting of the North Caro-
lina College Conference was held October
25 and 26 at Durham, N. C. The head-
quarters of the conference were located
at the Washington-Duke Hotel. The
conference was attended by two or’ more
delegates from each college in the state,
among which were six Davidson repre-
sentatives, President Martin, Professors
Harding, Lingle, Hood, and Williams, and
Mr. Hengeveld.

At the first session reports were given
on the results of “Fresh Week” as it was
observed in the state. Professor Wil-
liams, Dean of Freshmen here, was one
of the speakers at this occasion. The
evening was given over to President
Harper, of Elon, who spoke on the
“Training of Teachers.” That afternoon
at six-thirty a banquet was held at the

| hotel for the delegates and visitors. There

were over one hundred present at the
first session. The University Glee Club
entertained the delegates by a twenty-
minute program.

Wednesday morning was devoted tothe
hearing of the reports of the standing and
special committees. One of the reports
given was “Physiological tests in high
schools for the students who are planning

Thomasville, Ga., who procured him in.
“Tom” is a large and | W. spoke on “Correlation of Physiologi-

handsome cat—the best looking mascot cal Tests and High School Certificates.”
that the Wildcats have ever had. He tips

to enter college in the fall.’ During this
session Prof. J. A. Highsmith, of N. C. C.

The program of the conference is ar-
(Continued on page 2)

Under the leadership of Professor Cul-
lum and the Glee Club twelve acts, put
on by as many campus organizations,
constituted the program at Stunt Night
last Saturday night. Shearer Hall, the
scene of Stunt Night, was~crowded to
capacity by eight o’clock, the time of the
raising of the curtain. -It has been esti-
mated that over six hundred students and
visitors saw the program.

The program was started at eight
o'clock by the singing of “College Ties”
by the Glee Club. Next on the program
were several popular selection by the jazz
orchestra.

The first class stunt on the program
was given by the seniors. The stunt was
originated by Tyree Dillagi and ¢arried
out by a cast consisting of Howard Ar-
buckle, “Mutt’ Stigler, John McNeely,
and Witt Handcock. The next stunt was
put on by the Glee Club, which sang two
selections new to Davidson campus, “The
Blind Ploughman” and “Mother's Joy.”

Following this came the! junior stunt,
a caberet scene. Next Mrs. McCullum
sang three solos, “Come to the Fair,” the
chorus of “Roses of Picardy,” and “La
Coeur de ma Mie.” She was accompanied
by Miss: Hattie Thompson.

After Mrs. Cullum’s solos the sopho-
mores presented their stunt.
put on by the Beaver Club with a cast
from the sophomore class; and the cast
were Tom Baker, Bob McDermid, Jimmy
Matthews, and Charley Yancey. The
next selection was a piano solo by D. C.
Moury.

The freshman stunt was developed by
Frank Pilcher and was featured by a

(Continued on page 2) Ag

This was”
