TieDAVID SONIA

=

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XV.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.. DECEMBER 8, 1927

No. 13

Te Additional Debaters
Added to Varsity Squad
in Monday Night Trial

Five Juniors and One Senior Win
Places

FOUR SOPHS CHOSEN

Marriage and Divorce Question Dis-
Discussed by Twenty-Three
Men Who Answer Call

Monday night 23 men answered the call
for varsity debate tryouts in contesting for
a place on the squad. The squad as chosen
consists of five men who have positions on
the squad without trying out in lieu of their
service on the varsity teams of last year, and
10 men chosen from the 23 men who spoke
Monday night. The five varsity debaters of
last year are H. T.- Powell, A. T. Dillard,
W. K. Pritchett, L. K. Pritchett, and R. C.
Grady.

The remaining 10 members of the squad
as selected Monday are, in order as they
were chosen: C. R. Pritchett, W. L. Du-
mas, R. M. Christian, R. E. Kell, W. B.
McGuire, Reid Graham, Frank Hall, F. D.
Miller, Riggs McConnell, and F. D. Daniels.
The five teams composed of the 10 men will
be selected from this squad of 15 men before
Christmas.

The judges for the preliminaries were Dr.

C. K. Brown, Dr. T. W. Lingle, Prof. D.

R. McCrew, Dr. J. M. McConnell, and Prof.

A. Currie. These men, in co-operation with the

Forensic Council, will later choose the teams

to represent the college in the nine engage-
» ments.

The subject of the trial speeches was,
“Resolved, That Uniform Marriage and Di-

(Continued on page 3)

Wrights Urges Thought |
About the Larger World

Americans Often Too Hasty in Pass-
ing Judgment on Foreigners,
Says Speaker

« “When an American points an inquiring
finger at French morals, the Frenchman
hastily questions the Parisian divorces se-
cured by scores of people from this country;
when he sneers as the lack of censorship of
foreign theaters, the man from the Conti-
nent says, ‘How do you Americans allow
such a book as Elmer Gantry to be pub-
lished ?’” These questions and many others
may be flung at visitors to the old countries-
said Rev. Douglass L. Wrights, pastor of the
Trinity Moravian. Church, of ~ Winston-
Salem, in his address at the “Y” vesper sery-
ice last Sunday night, in speaking of “The
Student in the Larger World.”

In the opening of his address Rev. Mr.
Wrights stressed the fact that the limits of
a nation’s “human relationships rather than
its territorial boundaries, are the determining
factors in its progress, as the history of many
small nations proves. America, great in
‘material resources, must not neglect to broad-
en her human relationships to keep step with
modern times.

The student in this larger and all-inclu-
sive world is anxious to learn, and then he
desires to find his field of greatest usefulness,
where he may adapt himself to mect the
needs of men. :

This process of world adaptation will be
_ hindered by the many prejudices which stu-
dents and others’ hold concerning foteign na-
tions and customs. Illustrating his point by
relating experiences encotmtered on the sec-
ond visit of the A. E. F. to’ Paris, he de-
‘clared ‘that the French are not any ‘more
immoral. thanmany of the Americans who:
flock there to get divorces. Italy will ask
for. an opinion on the Sacco-Vanzetti case

Student Criticises
and Reviews First
Issue of Chameleon

It is always a difficult task to review col-
lege literary work. Shall one take the in-
trinsic merit of the writing as a standard,
or, rather, shall the gauge be that of promise
for the future? It is a question.

This year’s Cham, despite the desire ex-
pressed in its mentor’s “editorial,” fails in
our humble eyes to measure up to the heights
of its predecessor.
place, is too sparse—32 pages against an

too, is less.

What is in Cham, however, is fairly good
—some of it. The list of contributors is
small, with versifiers, speaking comparative-
ly, predominating. It is to be regretted that
an error in printing, the failure to substitute
a new table of contents, marred the mechani-
cal make-up of the book.

Rough Boggess’ “This Violin” heads the
program—and rightly. His story has a de-
gree of power, although it might have profit-
ed by restraint.. The inquest into Barrie,
“Between Each Parenthesis,” is also a charm-
ing. thing, well-done, but to our minds Bog-
gess’ “—And His Victor Recording Orches-
tra,” is the best of the lot—subtle, perhaps,
for some readers, but clever.

The theme of “The Dirty Cherub,” a
Brown McQueen production, is somewhat
flimsy, but Browne has sketched a neat story
around it. “The Golden Gift” is unsatisfac-
tory, while “Vignettes of Life,” by Bernard
McClaugherty, suffers, we think, from the
use of.a too vivid present tense—yet how
avoid it? The idea is good.

As for the poetics of the volume, they im-
préss us with rather more force than does
the prose. Bob Witt, sole Freshman repre-
sentative, proved slightly better in his
“Fancy” than in “The City,’ ’although both
present a charming style. Brown McQueen’s
five or six contributions are universally
good, deserving more space than can be
given them here. Frank Hall shows promise
of better things to come. Warren Ogden
and James Caligan are familiar names to the
old students. Johnny McKnight’s contribu-
tions, with the possible exception of a line
or two in “Shadows,” are trite.

As a whole, Cham has slipped somewhat.

(Continued on page 5)

Otto is Recipient
of Captain’s Bars

| Capt. J. A. Otto, the latest addition to the
officers of the R. O. T. C. department, re-
ceived his commission as captain on Novem-

ber 22nd.

Captain Otto entered the service in 1917,
after completing four years at Texas A. &

.” His commission as second lieutenant was
received after he had finished the prescribed
course at the first officers’ training camp,
held at Leon Springs, Texas. From Leon
Springs he went to the 37th Infantry, sta-
tioned at. Laredo, Texas, and he remained
there until 1919, when he was transferred to
Brownsville, in the same state. It was at
Fort Laredo that he was first promoted, be-
coming a captain, which rank he retained
until 1922, when, with numbers of other
army officers he was demoted to the grade
of first lieutenant.

From 1919 until 1927, Captain Otto was
transferred to various army posts, including
Fort Brady, Michigan; Porto Rico, Fort
McPherson, and Fort Benning. In 1927 he
was ordered to the R. O. T. C. department
at Davidson, where he will remain for the
next four years.

The captain, with his wife and daughter,
have been cordially received at Davidson, and

(Continved on page 5)

ra

4

The material, in the first |

average of 48 last year; the variety of forms, |

despite the short time that he has been here, |
has already become one of the most popular!
members of his department.

‘Campaign to Aid Youth
of Mountain Section is

Started by ‘Y’ Cabinet

Twenty Scholarships Will be
Provided for Boys

THOUSAND DOLLAR GOAL
Davidson Men Back Alumnus in

Hospital and School Work at
Banner Elk

| The Y. M. C. A. Cabinet has decided,
after careful consideration, that the object
of their annual campaign would be to raise
one thousand dollars to go to make up twenty
scholarships of. fifty dollars each for the
mountain boys attending the Plum Tree High
School, at Banner EIk,4N. C.

The enterprise at Banner Elk is one noble
in purpose and productive in results. Tt con-
| sists of four institutions, one of which is
jthe Lees-McRae Institute for girls. This
| organization is an up-to-date and well-equip-
{ped school, offering splendid opportunities
| for mountain girls, drawn chiefly from North
| Carolina, but coming from Tennessee, Vir-
| ginia, Kentucky, and Georgia. In addition
|to the girls’ school, the Grace Hospital is also
situated at Banner Elk. This hospital is an
efficient organization, having the services of
two competent physicians and several regis-
tered nurses. It is the only hospital for miles
around and serves a great number of the
mountain people.

The original work on Banner Elk was
begun in 1900. The first real leader of the
enterprise was Rev. Edgar H. Tufts, Sr.,
under whose careful and prayerful guidance
it became an organization of far-reaching
influence for the betterment of the mountain
population. The Lees-McRae Institute was
the first to be built after the erection of the
church. A few years later the hospital be-
came a reality. A few more years passed and

‘Continued on page 3)

NO MORE RUNNING

7

Never again will Davidson students
be put to flight as the result of a fren-
zied “D Club” yell, according to a
joint statement issued by Johnnie Mel-
ton, president, and Coach Younger.
Paddling raids will not be conducted
either by the club or by any of the
members, as it is felt that school spirit
is suffering and that the concensus of
student body opinion is opposed to
such. $

»),

Educator Speaks at
Initiation Tomorrow

The public initiation of the newly elected
student, faculty and alumni members of Phi
Beta Kappa, national honorary fraternity,
will occur tomorrow evening, December 9th,
in Shearer Hall, at 8:00 o'clock.

The principal speaker of the evening, Dr.
David A. Robertson, will be introduced by
Dr. T. W. Lingle, president of the local
chapter.
D. C., has for a numbers of years been dean
of the College of Arts, Literature and
Science at the University of Chicago. Since
1918 he has been prominently connected with
the Association of American Universities, of
which he has served as secretary for five
years. He carried on an investigation in be-
half of the association of several American
colleges in 1924, He is at present acting in
the capacity of assistant director of the Na-
tional Council of Education, He is particu-
larly interested in international relations and
is in charge of the Division of International
Relations of the Council.

Preceding the public initiation, the private
initiation will.take place at 7:00 p.m. Aft-
er the public initiation the old and new mem-
bers will proceed to the Maxwell Chambers
Hotel, where they and their lady guests will

(Continued on page 2)

Nestled away in the fastness of the Blue
| Ridge mountains, quite a distance from civil-

linstitution which has for its purpose the
preparation and training of, the native sons
|of that region. Down in the foothills of

North Carolina only a few hours 'ride by
{auto from this institution of which we have
{ spoken, there lies another school for boys.
| This school, however, does not confine its
| student body to a certain region, but serves
| young men from every corner of the south-
least. The hill school is in its primary stages
| of development, as yet ii is not fitted for the
|great work that eventually will fall to its
|lot in that great section» of the land. The
| other school has stood majestically for years
/and years, making a name and reputation for
| itself that is well known throughout: the
country. Both are Presbyterian institutions,
both have the same great fundamental—aim,
and yet it has only been in comparatively
‘recent years that the two have come to be
connected in: any appreciable way. Banner
| Elk Mountain School has for its supervisor
iMr. Edgar Tufts, a graduate of Davidson
College in the class of 1921, and this is the
only link between these two schools, of a
common spirit, accommodating men of the
same stamp, and by all means schools that
should feel a very close and sincere attrac-
tion to each other.

For the lagt four years the Davidson Col-
jlege Y. M. C. A. has conducted what _ it
termed as ‘a missionary enterprise.” This
has been a yearly campaign to raise funds
for a worthy enterprise, and the vital fact
about the campaign has been that the money
has come directly from the students, thus
creating a feeling of real interest among the
boys, and giving them reason to be sure that

Plea is Made for Unanimous Response

to Call Sounded for Banner Elk Fund

they were contributing to a cause that meant
something in the furtherance of His King-

The first issue of each year, however, if we | jzation as most people know it, there lies an| dom here on earth. For four years now this

student enterprise has been directed to the
work of Warren Cox, in China. Cox and
his great work at Hang Chow Christian
College has been a thing of heartfelt interest
to men of Davidson, but this year, due to
the unsettled conditions in China, the “Y”
thought it best to find a new channel for the
student campaign. This, of course, was no
easy matter, but it was decided that no worth-
ier recipient than the Banner Elk School
could be found, and so it is to this institu-
tion that the current gift will go. It was
thought that the nature of the new campaign
would prove especially appealing to Davidson
men, and serve to bind the two institutions
together in a way that will prove a mutual
benefit.

The-.average—amount.requiredto see one
boy through a term of school at Banner Elk
is $150. This sum takes care of the room,
board, and tuition of one boy. By working
at odd jobs around the school, or by doing
special work out of school hours, most of
the boys can make about $100 per year, but
outside of this, nearly every one of them is
absolutely penniless. It is unthinkable that
these mountain .boys, of the very purest
Anglo-Saxon stock and needing only the op-
portunity to make good, should be forced to
give up their chance to receive the benefit. of
the training at Banner Elk. And yet that
will be the situation unless an outside factor
steps in. Realizing the tremendous need, the
“Y” is! putting on this missionary campaign
to raise $1,000. This sum will make up
enough to grant 20 boys $50 each, thus al-
lowing them to take advantage of this won-

(Continued on page 3)

Dt. Robertson, from Washington, ,

‘Clemson Fills Florida
Date on Grid Schedule
Guilford Added to List

\Ten Games Booked as 1928 Program
is Announced

FOUR HOME GAMES

Charlotte Selected as Scene of Wake
Forest Battle—Many Teams
Offer Terms

Contracts have been signed with Clemson
and Guilford Colleges for football games
next season supplementing the schedule of
the past year with the omission of Florida,
| according to a statement made yesterday by
Prof. W. W. Wood, graduate manager of
athletics.” The schedule, thus‘arranged, calls
for one more game than in the 1927 .season,
making ten in all.
| Negotiations were carried on with a num-
ber of other colleges and universities, but
because of inability to arrange suitable dates,
locations and &ther features, it was not deem-
ed advisable to accept them.

Professor Wood, in announcing the pro-
gram for next year, said that it was the
purpose of the Athletic Council to provide
' games for different sections of the South in
order that larger numbers of alumni might
be allowed to see the Davidson team in ac-
tion, and this idea was borne in mind in lo-
cating gridiron contests at Charleston, S. C.,
Lexington, Va., Charlotte, and other cities
in this state, as well the Clemson game.
| The opening date is one week earlier than
the schedule of the past fall called for, being
September 22nd, when Guilford comes to
Davidson. The Clemson team will oppose
| the Wildcats the next Saturday, probably in
South Carolina, and on October 6th, Elon

(Continued on page 8)

Fraternities Show Favor
of Present House Plan

Pan-Hellenic Council Makes Sug-
gestions end Recommendations
at Recent Meeting

Practically whole-hearted support of the
present fraternity housing situation was
voiced at a recent meeting of the Pan-Hel-
lenic Council, at which were present repre-
sentatives of the three local fraternities on
the campus also. It was at this meeting that
a set of resolutions was adopted for presen-
tation to the board of trustees regarding the
question, The resolutions were adopted aft-
er a reopening of the question of fraternity
houses, following a silence of two years.
Two years ago, by action of the board of
trustees, the fraternities were allowed to
move from the campus into houses on private
property near the campus.

The members of the Pan-Hellenic Coun-
cil, in discussing the house situation, sug-
gested for the consideration of the board of
trustees, that certain of the fraternities had
gone to a large expense in acquiring property
in the town, chiefly through the help of the
alumni, and that this property was acquired
under the impression that the action of the
board was final.

From a national viewpoint it was pointed
out that over 90 per cent of the colleges and
universities in the United States and Canada
have adopted the policy of allowing the fra-
ternities to build their own homes off of the
campus, and that several institutions mate-
rially help the fraternities in acquiring prop-
erty and building. thereon. And that it is
the policy of the influential fraternities for
their chapters to own their own homes as
the most satisfactory plan, and also that many
of the larger fraternities will not grant
charters to chapters in schools where fra-
ternity houses are not allowed off the campus,

remain off it would be-an incentive for more

(Continued on page 8).

and ‘that if the fraternities were permitted ‘to -

Sees

st
