4

THE DAVIDSONIAN,

SEPTEMBER 22, 1927

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member 6f Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Eutered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
19 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

BOYCE MARTIN
M. P. CRAWFORD

7

EDITORIAL STAFF

AON: UE BROWN: wuncccddsas tasqsadosabascepeas Managing Editor
— IW, Ky PRITCHETT 2.2.2 sn0 228. e econo ene Managing Editor
J. B. MORIARITY Managing Editor
Cc. R. eH ----Athletic Editor
W. L. LINGLE -- .--Associate Editor
F. C. WITHERS --Associate Editor
oD He AO NID iliac cakssckecucckesne --Associate Editor
L. C. WADSWORTH ...--.----------2--------- Alumni Editor
Ric GO NORAD Ys bkbecs acaccsconcnces .-Exchange Editor
M. Business Manager

BUSINESS STAFF

EQ S. ABERNETHY...--..----.- Assistant Business Manager

S»J. ALLISON Assistant Business Manager

W. ; fc ...Assistant Business Manager

PoVMGARRMON cocatccatisuc.cccncsdan Subscription Manager

B. Circulation Manager

Ss. .-Solicitor

Ww. --Solicitor

FE. .-Solicitor

J. Vutetucuivcstataviatswalsucsboseublucceutecees Solicitor

Reporters’ Club

W. H. BAILEY... ore ..------President
i ieee OW eiiugaecsval is dduckoucusescuuueseuuonau Vice-President
» CRO GRATIAM ccc oncacncchannnenneanecad Secretary-Treasurer
. P. ANDERSON NE P. McBRYDE

W. H. BEST . W.. McDERMID

E. T. EDELMAN ty P. McKNIGHT

M. T. GILMORE . B. McQUEEN

A. N. HALVERSTADT W., A. MITCHELL

E. S. HEEFNER YD K. MILLER

M. K. HENDERSON V. A. MILTON

R. F. JARRATT C. M. PRATT.

F. W. JOHNSTON D. T. STOKES

‘R. R. KANE W. R. TREVERTON

R. W. KIRKPATRICK W. R. WEAVER

5 y LEY B. A. WILSON

EDITORIAL

A NEW PRIVILEGE
The Senior Class has recently presented

» a petition to the Executive Committee re-

questing that the class be allowed the priv-
ilege of attending church in any community
on Sundays. This movement has been
agitated for the past few years but has had
no definite form until the past few days. The
senior class believes that it will be beneficial
te the college and the senior class in a num-
ber-of respects. It is an added privilege to
the senior class, but it will likewise lessen
the congestion and crowding which is visible
at times at the local church under present
conditions. With the largest combined jun-
ior and senior classes in the history of the
institution, with the underclassmen trailing
not so far behind in numbers, there has
come a time when’ some definite step must
be taken. Either the enlarging of the pres-
ent church or the granting of the petition
which is at present before the committee.
Naturally there would be a few disad-
vantages if the petition were granted. Pos-

sibly it would éncourage the seniors to leave
>the Hil on week-ends more than they have
e

oing. It is possible that the seniors
would lose contact with the local church, by
being allowed the privilege of attending
elsewhere, But in the opinion of many the
advantages far outweigh the disadvantages.
There’ would be the distirict privilege of
hearing a number of noted ministers who
hold pastorates in the vicinity of Davidson.
Under the proposed plan, the seniors would
be allowed to hear such men as Dr. Myers,
of Greensboro; Dr. Johnson and Dr. Mc-
Geachy, of Charlotte; Dr. Raynal, of States-
ville, and various other speakers and min-
isters of noted ability.

As is the case in every privilege, there
would be some who would attempt to take
advantage of it, but this number would be
vastly in the minority. By the time men
have spent three years at Davidson they will
have had time to see clearly the fallacy of
attempting to get around regulations im-
posed on the student body and would co-

operate with the faculty in this new priv-

ilege. All in all it would be a distinct ad-
vantage and forward step for all concerned
if this petition is granted.

We hear hat McAdee has also said that
“he did not choose to run in 1928,” but
what we would like to know is who asked
him in the first place?

|
By this, time the radiator ticket and
chapel seat salesmen have about completed
their campaign and can rest for another
“year. ie

eams are so infested with crocodiles

hands of the |

: he loss of life among natives is

FRESH PARADES

Various members of the student body and
the college community have been brewing
for a number of years the trouble which
finally reached a crisis last Friday night.
This was the uncontrolled fresh parade after
a pep meeting. It is extremely unfortunate
that people outside of the college were made
the unfortunate victims of an unpremedi-
tated action of the students.

Pep meetings are extremely valuable to
the student body and particularly to the
freshmen, when they are controlled, But it
is the action of the students after the pep
meeting was over that has come in for its
share of criticism for the past few years. It
is natural that upperclassmen, being de-
prived of hazing, should break over at times,
but this is no excuse for the action last Fri-
day night. The students should have real-

ized that the state highway is not their .

property and that there are people passing
who are unfamiliar with the vicinity and
have not the faintest idea that they are pass-
ing through a college town. When such
people are confronted with a howling mob
surrounding their car, it is only natural that
they should attempt to get away as soon as
possible. It is indeed remarkable that some
of the students have not been injured before
now while filling the street in the midst of
a parade, Although the circumstances were
a little different Friday night with those
concerned residing in the town, but this is
no excuse for the action of those men who
surrounded the car;

The student body is to be congratulated
on the action it took Monday morning on
the matter. At a time when they were able
to think more clearly and saner, the affair
was regretted and steps taken to insure the
fact that it would not happen again.

With the new plan*of having the bonfire
on the fresh field after the pep meeting, the
same general purpose can be accomplished
without having the entire student body fill-
ing the highway. It is quite necessary, how-
ever, that each student co-operate in the
new plan and see personally that it is a suc-
cess. It is only by this that the plan will
succeed. By this the name of Davidson will
be cleared and remain clear of any such oc-
currences as came to’ pass last Friday night.

JUST A TIP

To the sophomore class and a few of the
other upperclassmen a gentle hint and .re-
minder at this time will save a great deal of
trouble and inconvenience at a later date.
And this tip is concerning hazing. Every
year there are one or two upperclassmen
who forget that hazing has been abolished
at Davdison and later repay with regret
their lapse of memory.

So far this year, there does not seem to
have been any of this on the campus, but
this does not mean that it is not likely to
occur. But those so sorely tempted should
remember that a Court of Control has been
appointed to take care of all erring fresh-
men and that punishment from this court,
announced to the student body, and in full
sight of them, is far worse than any person-
al punishment or pain to which an upper-
classman might: subject a freshman. And
the upperclassman might well remember
that his punishment, were he caught, would
prove far worse than any inflicted on the
freshman.

The student body which abolished hazing
believed that it was doing a wise thing, and
the reocrds of the past few years have borne
them out in their supposition. -An upper-
classman should think carefully before he
attempts to violate this part of the consti-
tution ofthe student body.

The alumni office has been doing a rush-
ing business since school opened. There
have been almost as many old boys back for
a visit as upperclassmen returning for an-
other year’s work.

One of our alumni has not yet been heard
from. The May King of 1927 is still among
those missing. Reports have it that he was
forced down in the wilds of Hollywood on
his attempted non-stop flight to Bluefield.

As usual, the press representatives come
out with the doleful prediction that David-
son will finish fifth among the big five. Not
to brag any, but they prophesied the same
thing last year. It will be almost a miracle
if Davidson does finish as well as she did
last year, but still there are very few who

. believe she won’t be just a little better than

last at any raté.

It is extremely unfortunate that the races
in Charlotte are never at such a date that
some of the Davidson entries may compete.
There was quite an array of racing cars at
the last day of school last year. “Also un-

fortunately a number of them “did not-

choose to run in 1927.”

Ollapodrida

“I shall not, therefore, be a candidate for the
Democratic presidentaial nomination in 1928.” In
such a definite manner did William Gibbs Mc-
Adee, former secretary of the treasury and di-
rector general of railroads, write last week in an
open letter to a Chattanooga newspaper. Said
Mr. McAdoo, “I prefer to stand aside in order that
the field may be left clear, so far as I can clear
it, for the development of a leadership that can
more effectively gain these ends.” The announce-
ment ca4me as a surprise to few, as a certainty to
most followers of the political game.

Back in 1920 McAdoo was the favorite and
choice of his party. He was handed the nomina-
tion and in turn graciously refused it. The tide
.,was against him, No Democrat could have been
elected that year. Mr. McAdoo sized up the sit-
uation, decided to bide his time. In 1924 after a
Republican regime tainted with graft, McAdoo
stepped forward, announced his readiness to run.
A divided party proved to be his undoing and
he failed to muster the two-thirds majority nec-
essary for nomination, Governor Alfred Smith
took the block in turn, failed to auction off his
candidacy. As the 1928 campaign loomed ahe4d
the party looked once more to the two great
chiefs, felt them out, found by evasive methods
that Mr. Smith was being groomed once more,
that McAdoo was non-committal. Now with
straightforward decision the latter has retired.

better political minds think not. Mr. Smith is
ambitious, and has never received but one politi-
cal setback, that being in his presidential race of
1924. Should he become a candidate he will prob-
ably be nominated to run against Mr. Coolidge.
The outcome is too far ahead for Washington to
predict, but. big business favors Coolidge and big
business usually gets its man. Meanwhile, Mr.
McAdoo will fight Mr. Smith, groom himself for

1932.

Almost a hundred years ago in 1831, a group of
farm hands stood watching a pondrous collection
of wood and blades being dragged in a crazy-
quilt direction through a field of oats. The own-
er of the field gesticulated wildly among the
debris of his bunker crop, the laborers laughed
uproariously, the rider of the awkard confrap-
tion jumped, ran before the rage of the pursuing
farmer. The pursued was’ one Cyrus McCor-
mick, inventor of the reaper, founder of a com-
pany which today manufactures thirty-eight labor
saving devices for farmers. Last week his suc-
cessors announced the perfection of three more
machines, a cotton picker, a cotton boller and a
cotton cleaner. The first is of greatest impor-
tane. Two men can run it over a field, follow it
as it discriminates between the ripe and unripened
fibers, collect from two to five bales per day. The
same job takes the same two men from eight to
fifteen days at present. Its influence upon the
southern farmer should be tremendous. It is
farm relief,

The original reaper stands in the Virginia state
museum at Richmond, a testimony to the genius
and his successors.

An interested citizen and taxpayer of Los
Angeles read in his paper that 383,550 gallons of
petrol were used in searching for the missing
Dole flyers, telegraphed to Washington to see who
paid the price. In turn he received a message
that he with other tax payers would foot the bill
for $67,142.49. This is only a slight part of the
$350,000 which was paid out by interested parties
in search of a $25,000 prize and glory. The well
meaning Mr. Dole, anticipated progress in his
derby, and helped to snuff out the lives of more
than ten people who were tempted to put fame
and fortune before their well being. Progress
is a material part of nature, and nature has never
been hurried.

Mayor Thompson, with flaming posters and
propoganda, boarded a train in Chicago, started
a tour of the West last week in definite anticipa-
tion of the coming presidential campaign. He
placed himself on a platform which he reminds
us would have been upheld by George Washing-
ton. That is no international entanglements,
flood relief, farm relief, and a development of in-
land waterways. Openly Mr. Thompson seeks a
candidate who will uphold his issues; far-seeing
contenders see him being groomed for the nom-
ination himself. Blah.

The upperclassmen are eagerly awaiting
a football game on the Hill so they can
watch the freshmen run for the watebuckets
when someone yells “Fire!”

Speaking officially we would like to ex-
press the sympathy of the entire student
body to the bereaved family of the late
Felfx. It will be too bad for the young
swains around the campus who will find it
impossible to take’ their lady lovers “down

to see the Wildcat.”

Whether or not Mr. Smith will retire from the.
race is a question in the minds of the public. The.

A BIT OF

THIS and THAT

By HARLLEE BRANCH, JR.

There is something poignantly tragic about the

‘ fragility of beauty. Perhaps no one appreciates

the full measute of that tragedy more than one
who having been blessed with loveliness for many
years, awakes one morning to find her beauty
fading and old-age with its hideousness creeping
on, The tragedy must be doubly agonizing when
the beautiyis lost entirely, and its former possess-
or in desperation seeks a mode of reacquiring her
earlier comeliness.

A half century ago the English-speaking world
(particularly the male portion of it) bowed at the
dainty feet-of Carrie King, whose grace and ele-
gance had made her the reigning beauty of that
age. She was playing the part of “Little Butter-
cup” in the original production of Gilbert and Sul-
livan’s masterpiece, the “H. M. S. Pinafore.” With
her gowns of lace and silk, and a flower-basket
hat that added to the beauty of her face, she sang
her way into the hearts of all who attended her
performances. Women admitted her elegance,
and men floundered at her charm. Sophisticated
Londoners of the late seventies crowded about the
door of her cab as she left it on Trafalgar Square,
or eagerly fought for a glimpse of her as she took
tea in the late afternoon at a Berkeley Square eat-
ing-place.

A few weeks ago, an old friend discovered Carrie
King in New York, occupying a room in a squalid
little hotel in the midst of New York’s “Roaring
Forties.” She had lost her beauty, and instead of
the lovely Carrie King of the ’7o’s, the friend
writes that he found a “battered, weak little wom-'
an, the victim of an accident, uncomplainingly
bed-ridden, and longing for another sight of the
London and Paris she loved so well.”

Fifty years earlier, Carrie King’s illness would
have been the signal for wealth and royalty to
express sorrow and concern with great bouquets
of flowers, But, in the modest little room in which
Miss King lay ill in New York there was only a
single vase or withered roses, brought days before
by a faithful friend.

The most tragic part of it all is that Carrie
King still hopes to go again in search of a “Foun-
tain of Youth” that will restore her lost beauty.
A number of years ago, she underwent a gland
operation at the hands of Dr. Serge Voronoff,
the noted Viennese gland surgeon, and though an
arduous ordeal, she still believes it gave her re-
newed strength for a while. Her friends, per-
haps in pity, told her then that she was fresh and
beautiful as she strolled the Parisian -boulevards,
a bit unsteadily, with a jeweled monkey on her
hat as a talisman. And now, she wants to try it
again. “I need my strength to write my memoirs
and pay my bills,” she weeps.

>

Paris was_her home for many years, even after
she left her husband, Charles King. Her house in
Paris was the mecca for celebrities—the late Lil-
lian Russell, a life-long friend; Mary Garden,
Ganna Walska, Nat Goodwin, and others. In
Paris she had wealth, and her generosity in help-
ing needy artists won her the name “Angel of
Montparnassus.”

Two years ago she came back to America, after
a long absence, for a cataract operation. The
accident, which has kept her to her bed for more
than twenty weeks, followed. Her wealth is gone.
She has sold -her fur coat and her fine clothes.
She has pawned her jewels. Today she is penni-
less. When found a few weeks ago she was half-
starved and worried sick by her unpaid hotel bills.

One cannot help but admire the dauntless cour-
age of Carrie King, who, in the midst of a poverty
to which she cannot accustom herself, still smiles
with an urchin twinkle in her big, hazel eyes. And
there’s a bit of youthful vanity, if you please, in
the pink ribbon tied around her bobbed white
hair. A dozen empty lotion bottles on her dresser
testify of meticulous grooming before adversity
came. “Of course my hair is white,” she tries
bravely to smile, “but it doesn’t mean I’m aged.
I’ve always been white=-headed;-and married, too,
for that matter. Both hapened before I was 16.”

Carrie King, facing poverty and no longer pos-
sessing the beauty that won her fame in the

‘threatrical world of yesteryear, is hoping against

hope that she’ll soon be able to leave her bed, and

make her way somehow back to Paris for another

gland operation that she believes will restore her

youth. But, Carrie King is past seventy, and even

if she had the money (she won’t accept gifts) |
gland surgery could hardly bring back the color

that has faded from her cheeks, and the elegance

and grace with which she once captured a conti-

nent.. That’s the tragedy of it.

Prisons in England ‘have decreased by’ one-half
and the number of inmates by two-thirds in the
past few years. There are today only thirty-
three prisons and 10,000 prisoners.
