THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 7, 1927

5

Davidson Faculty Approves of Military Colonel F. W. Rowell is
Training According to Dr. Arbuckle

When the S. A. T. C. came to Davidson
in 1918 the physical training of the students
was taken over by the military authorities,
For three years prior to this time the faculty
had provided compulsory: physical exercises
for the Freshmen and was contemplating re-
quired physical training for Sophomores. It
was the consensus of the opinion of college
faculties throughout the country that physi-
cal training should be required of all Fresh-
men and Sophomores. Our experience with
the Freshmen in these required exercises
was far from satisfactory, as Freshmen
were constantly cited to meet the faculty for
discipline because of frequent violation of
our regulations. Many of us were loath to
undertake, on this aécount, the compulsory
training of Sophomores.

The physical exercises given by the S. A.
T. C. were so well executed and the results
so satisfactory that we were convinced that
our students could not be given better physi-
cal training. ‘

When the question arose as to the estab-
lishment of the R. O. T. C. unit at Davidson
College, this was the argument that won the
votes of the majority of the faculty.

So the R. O. T. C. came. In spite of its
unpopularity with the students in its early
years all had to confess that it had solved our
problem of required physical training for the
Freshmen and Sophomores. The faculty has
had practically no discipline to enforce, while
the students themselves admitted that they
were greatly benefited by the physical train-
ing. This may have been irksome at times,
but no form of required exercises could be
more intéresting and at the sa
beneficial.

In this, at least, the R. O.

time more

results with increasing satisfaction each year.

Not only has the R, O. T. C. given train-
ing for the muscles, but it has taken the
students out regularly into the open air,
cleaned out their lungs, and supplied that
vigor that is revealed in bright eyes, ruddy
checks, and elastic steps. More than this, it
has given to the student body that good ap-
pearance that is inseparably connected with
soldierly bearing. Davidson students were
once slouchy in their walk, careless in dress,
lazy in the class room. Thanks to the R. O.
T. C. they are so no more. The faculty
credits the R. O. T, C. with this splendid
transformation. ‘

The faculty does not undervalue the in-
fluence of: the R. O. T. C. in the discipline
of our students. It is true that rigid military
discipline is not enforced, but our students
are kept for several hours each week under

a mild but firm discipline of the R. O. T. C..

officers and this discipline works. If
could see the rush of students from every
quarter of the campus at the bugle call, he
would be convinced that punctuality is en-
forced. It enforces obedience to those in
authority, which is wholesome for young
men.. It engenders a feeling of respect, con-
fidence, and pride, which makes it easy for
the*students to work for the success of their
respective companies and, better still, it uni-
fies the whole student body to strive for the
honor and glory of the college. What but
this could have placed Davidson College R.
O. T. C. in the distinguishéd rating class?

It was the snap, the hard work, the zeal,
and the love of the boys that composed our
battalion that overcame their inexperience
in military drill, the short time allotted to this
training, and the lack of equipment.

one

These are some of the fruits of the whole-
some discipline that the R. O..T. C. has em-
ployed in handling our students.

The faculty delights to express its appreci-
ation of the uniform courtesy, faithfulness,
efficiency and zeal of the officers that the
U. S. Army has sent to Davidson to direct
the R. O. T. C. In their demeanor toward
students and faculty they have shown them-
selves every one a gentleman. In all these
years not one unbecoming thing has occurred
in their discipline of our students.

Moreover, we are not unmindful of the
contribution of the R. O. T. C. in its in-
structional functions.

It is well for every young man, it matters
not how peaceful may be his intentions, to
’ know the construction and use of firearms.
The R. O. T. C. gives a thorough study in
this. It furnishes instruction concerning
explosives, the organization of the army and
the deploying of troops. It trains the stu-
dents in map: drawing and topographical
surveys: Fro mthe testimony of the students
themselves they learn many useful and valu-
able things in these courses and in order to
pass they are compelled to study.

Battalion Officers
Leaders on Campus

es | frequently demonstrated his friendship for| Alabama Polytechnic Institute (Auburn) — |

A- glance on the roll of. the Advanced | Davidson College in the past both in the | the effects of his early instruction still ex-
Course students of the R. O. T. C. reveals | manner in which he has given the R. O. T. C. |
the fact that a large number of the leaders | his loyal support and in the complimentary |

|

on the campus are included in this body and
that*the number of important positions held
by these officers, both commissioned and non-
commissioned, is unusually large in’ propor-
tion to the number. |

The most noticeable preponderance is in|
athletics, in which 17 officers participate.
Football and track have seven each, wrestling |
three, baseball and basketball two, as follows :

Football—G. R. Simms, J. M. Farrell, W.
T. Davis, J. W. Crinkley, W. O. Green, R.
L. Mitchell, R. H. McIlwaine (manager) ; |
wrestling—P. G. Garrison, J. C. Frierson |
(captain), J.- W. Crinkley; track—S. R.
Simms, D. M. Calhoun, D. S. Calhoun, W.
M. Treverton, M. C. O'Neal, J. A. King
(manager), B. F. Webb; baseball—K. V.
Woodham (captain), C. O. Cathey, W. T.
Davis; basketball—T. F. Anderson (cap-
tain), R, S. Calhoun. It will be noticed that,
the of basketball
wrestling are included in the above list.

In scholarship the officers are equally well
represented, the following ten men being as-
sistants in some subject: R. H. McIlwaine,
R. H. Bradford, H. B. Arbuckle, W. O.
Puckett, W. T. Davis, C. C. Trabue, T. L.
Short, G. H. Zimmerman.
five of these men on the honor roll for the
past semester as follows: Zimmerman, J.
B. Kuykendall, T. 1. Short, H. B. Arbuckle

captains baseball, and

There were als@

land W, B. Bradford.

T. C. has made

good and the faculty has viewed the good | 2
'W. O. Green

-er and more efficient ‘men.

In other campus activities, the Glee Club
is represented by J. S. McCrae (president),
(secretary-treasurer), °S. M.
Withers, T. H. Hamilton (conductor
Symphony Orchestra, D. M. Calhoun, and
R. S. Lowrance, Jr. The Court of Control
has C. C. Murchison and T, F. Anderson;
The Davidsonian, W. S. Broyles (business
manager), and Julian Lake (assistant busi-
ness manager). T. L. Short is president of
the C@E. Training Class; P. J. Garrison is |
president of the Volunteer Band; J. B. Kuy-
kendall is manager of the Students’ Store, |
and others hold important position on the |

campus.

ot

Peevish Pete—"I didn’t get much sleep last
night.”

Solomon—"“What was the trouble ?”

P. P.—“The window shade was pulled up.”

Sol.—"Why didn't you pull it down 2?”

P. P.—‘I couldn't reach across the street.”

First Chorus Girl—“What are you doing
now, Mazie; I never see you in the theatre |
any more.” z

Second Chorus Girl—‘Oh, an’ automobile |
insurance paying $500 a
month not to wear short skirts on windy
days on streets where traffic is heavy.”

company is me

Fair One (to tourist: who is shaving out
side his tent)—“Do you always shave out- |
side?” |

Tourist—“Certainly, do you think I’m fur-
lined?”

Ugly Stranger—“Throw up your hands. |
I’m going to shoot you.”

Hudgins—“What for ?”

Stranger—‘“I always said that if I ever
met a man uglier than J, I'd kill him.”

Hudgins—‘Am I uglier than you ?”

Stranger—“You certainly are.”

Hudgins—‘Well, then, go

shoot.” |
|

ahead and |

Some of the friends of the college have |
entertained fears and doubts concerning the |
R. O. T. C. at Davidson College, because it |
seems inappropriate, to say the least, for a'
Christian college to be engaged in the train-
ing of soldiers.

The faculty reply to this, which was given |
with only two dissenting votes, is that, after |
seven years of careful observation, it can not |
discover the least trace of militaristic spirit |
in our students who have taken this training |
for four years and have won their commis-
sions as lieutenants. As proof that our stu-
dents are not led to choose the life of the
soldier, we need only mention the fact that
only one student out of the many hundreds
has continued military life after leaving Da-
vidson.

The faculty is backing our R. O. T. C. and
is assured that it will help us to make strong-

| nected

Loyal Friend of College

Distinguished Officer Has Aided
Department in Many Ways

Col. Frank W. Rowell, U. S. Atmy, has

manner in which he has spoken of the college
at other places from time to time. Only last
summer at Camp McClellan, Colonel Rowell
cited Davidson College as a striking example
of how a college should support its R. O. T.
C. unit and at this time he spoke in most
favorable terms of the work being done by
the unit.

To enable the friends of Davidson to know +

something more about this distinguished
army officer it is of interest to note several
things of a somewhat personal nature con-
with Colonel Rowell’s career. In
distinction from other officers Colonel Row-
ell was appointed a second lieutenant in the
U. S. Army by special act of Congress at
the age of 18. The age required by law for
the receipt of this commission is 21, and the
appointment of Colonel Rowell was in recog-

{nition of his ability to efficiently perform| Colonel Rowell has made special efforts
| the duties of a commissioned officer at his in the past to get officer instructors for the
| age. | Military Department who were in sympathy
| In connection with R. O. T. C. work Col- with the ideals and aims of Davidson. His
j onel Rowell’s’ experience has been as ex-| Personal interest has been manifested in
‘tensive, probably, as that of any officer in the | Vatious other ways. Davidson College feels
| Army. He was one of the first officers to| he is its friend, and the feeling of cordiality

; be connected with such work in an active | !S Teciprocated.

capacity and was the first P. M. S. and T. at |
| FOSTER CHOSEN AS HEAD

(Coritinued from page 1)
isting in view of the fact that that institution | ager ;C. J. Albright, leader of the jazz
has held the War Department's distinguished | orchestra; and T. H. Hamilton, leader of
college rating in unbroken annual succession | the symphony orchestra.
since 1920. After leaving Auburn he was| The old officers will maintain control over
closely connected with R. O. T. C. work |the club until about the latter part of April
while on duty with the War Department and} when the new ones will be installed. The
later was assigned as R. O. T. C. officer of |main program for the year was completed
the Fourth Corps Area, the office he now, with the trip to Grtensboro and Winston-
fills. | Salem last month, but a few more shorter

Last year Colonel Rowell was largely re | trips are being planned in order to put the
sponsible for Davidson's R. O. T. C. getting | club in better financial shape. Taking all in
jthe “D.C.” award. This was brought about, ; all, with the new officers and only a few
first, by his recommendation that the college | losses in the ranks of the present members,
be inspected by War Department inspectors the prospects for a good club and a success-
for the award, and, second, by giving the | ful year are encouraging,

officers on duty here valuable information |
concerning such inspections and making con- _ A young woman of Cincinnati was talking
structive criticism of such nature that when! lately about tobacco and tobacco raising,

the inspection took place the inspectors were
convinced that the*honor should be given to b

“LT should like ever so much to see a to-
acco field,” she said, “especially when it is

the college. | just plugging out.”

No wonder

Liccerr & Myers Tosacco Co,

That’s reason enough!

swung ‘round to Chesterfield.

NATURAL TOBACCO TASTE
—that’s reason enough /

hesterfield

choice has

T. be tasted food must not
be smothered by sauces. And
if this were true of nothing
else on earth, it’s true for
tobacco. Nothing can im-
prove on natural tobacco taste.

They Salisfy- and yet, they’re MILD

H. B. Arbuckle.
