4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 3, 1927

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-

ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

‘ HARLLEE BRANCH. JR.-................... Editor-in-Chief
VERNON S. BROYLES.......-.-.--....-.. Business Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF

L. LINGLE. .. ----Managing Editor
BOYCE MARTIN nt Managing Editor
F. C. WITHERS .....-Athletic Editor
BUFORD WEBB... --Associate Editor
Hy la (SH DIsb Waves ueseeceucoccceccc. ....-Alumni Editor
D. M. CALHOUN.. ..--Exchange Editor
Hib Sia. SHUEY aadbesghenasckucccascuces ---Humorous Editor
D. M. CALHOUN. .--.--.-Alumni Editor
W. S. GORDON. -Assignment Editor
BiB JON BSivsccisvescickccuswaden quuves ahaa Feature Editor
T. TeyONBS hea ce % . Inquiring Reporter

BUSINESS STAFF Ge
E, L. DOUGLASS. ._....-.-.-.-Assistant Rusiness Manager

M. P. CRAWFORD._- --Assistant Business Manager
ULIAN LAKF.....-._......-..Assistant Rusiness Manager
. A. McALPINE. ........-.............Subscription Manager

We ASB Gt barerecccccoscCoecas Circulation Manager
ABERNETHY wooo coco soc ieiiess. oc cc SOPVICe: Manager

Reporters’ Club

C. C. MURCHISON Cc. R. LAKE

W. T. COVINGTON R. R. KANE

W. T. DAVIS TOHN GWIN
JOHN MORIARTY T. T. JONES

A. N. BROWN R. H. McILWAINE
J. L. ELY J. P. McKNIGHT
L. WADSWORTH A. M. SPARROW
TYREE DILLARD B. WILSON

J. R. WEAVER B. F. McQUEEN

EDITORIAL

A two weeks’ trip to Central America at the
expense of the Costa Rican Government has been
refused by the Tulane University Glee Club. A
tour of the region including Louisiana and vicinity
will taken next summer~=and_ will
months.

be

Miss Jessie H. Wood, of Seymour, Connecticut,
has the honor of being the only woman in the
College of Technology at the University of Maine.
She has received her degree of Bachelor of Science
in\yMechanical Engineering.

George Laird made a novel deposit in Novem-
ber. He put $25.00 in a savings bank, at interest
for one hundred years, with instructions that the
money be used at its maturity in the furtherance
of education’ for Cedar Rapids children. The
$25.00 will amount to more than $4,000.00 at the
end of that period.

A college education does not make a woman
unfit for marriage and a home, but makes her more
able to create a home through higher learning is
the opinion of Dr. Nancy E. Scott, in the Sociolog-
ical Journal.

Abraham Kalom, forty-five-year-old Russian im-
migrant who supports his wife and three children
by raising sugar beets, is enrolled as a Freshman
at Northwestern.

When Orville Morrow of the University of
Tennessee decides to go home to see his family
he just flies over. He has his own airplane and is
an expert pilot.

MORE SCHOLARS NEEDED

The American colleges’ demand upon
promising young scholars for an undue
amount of rudimentary teaching is crippling
many in their pursuit of higher scholarship
and seriously hampering the advancement of
learning here, according to Dr. Frederick
J. E. Woodbridge, dean of the faculties of
Political Science, Philosophy, and Pure
Science at Columbia University.

Dean Woodbridge’s annual report, made
public yesterday by President Nicholas
Murray Butler, contained a plea for more
deliberate training of scholars. “An un-
happy contrast between a reputation for
teaching and a reputation for scholarshp
exists in all our universities,” the dean de-
clared, “to the detriment of science.” Asa
result of this, he asserted, young instructors
were coming to the age of forty with no
greater claim to full professorships than
length of service and academic usefulness.

“We have, I fear, fallen into the habit of
relying too much on the normal progress of
academic promotions, expecting young men
to work their way up from instructors of
undergraduates, to the position of university
professors,” the report says.

“There is much to be said for a training
of this sort. It is solid and conservatiye.
It has, however, a defeat which is serious
when there is such an active demand for
young men who will give the greater part of
their time to teaching the elementary
coutses in their subjects.

Ld 4

last two —

It tends to delay consistent scholarly de-
velopment. Too many young men with am-
bition aroused by graduate study and with
ability clearly demonstrated go into acad-°
emic positions where they have no real
scholarly co-operation with their elders and
a real opportunity to show what is in them.
Our organization is apt to get in the way of
this. They do not become better teachers
simply by being expected to teach.

“When we say ‘instructor’ we are apt to
think of a teaching job and not a univer-
sity opportunity. And an instructor is lucky
if, by going through the academic routine, he
is regarded as professorial material at the
age of forty.

“I confess my own obtuseness in yielding
to this superstition of age, and may be par-
doned for_saying that I.am abashed by it
when I remember that I came to Columbia
as professor at the age of thirty-five, but
now look upon instructors of that age as
doubtful professorial material.”

Some of the Columbia departments, Dean
Woodbridge points out, have met the diffi-
culty by providing for their instructors a
limited amount of graduate work. He
thinks, however, that they have not gone
far enough,

Dean Woodbridge asks that the Depart-
ment of Fine Arts be accorded graduate
recognition, saying that “fine arts in our
universities have been usually too much of
an academic Cinderella, fancifully slippered
on occasions.” He also urges more ade-
quate provision for the Department of |
Chinese, left in need by the death of Profes-
sor Thomas F, Carter—New York Times.

COLLEGE OR COUNTRY CLUB?

Recently the college—particularly the
eastern ones — have been telling their
troubles to the newspapers. Two things, it
appears, are worrying them: first, the ten- |
dency of athletics to become the chief pre-
occupation of those youth who are some-
times ironically called “students” and,
second, the fact that more people are clam-
oring for entrance than the colleges can pos-
sibly, for their own good, attempt to
educate. Various criteria for selection,
ranging all the way from the relative at-

tractiveness of the candidates as revealed by:
their photographs and family trees to rigid-
ly prepared psychological
have been suggested but all have their de-
fects. And yet the double dilemma is much
like that which faced the legandary Pullman
porter who discovered one morning that he
had two pairs of mismated shoes: one need
only put the two problems together to find
the solution.

If, for example, Harvard really wishes a
small and select group of students who are
attracted only by the fame of her professors
and the opportunities which she offers for
the acquirements of learning and culture,
then let her simply abolish intercollegiate
athletics for four years by way of an ex-
periment. No one can doubt that the im-
mediate result would be the reduction of the
freshman class to a manageable size, and no
one can maintain that any hardship would
be done. It is highly probable that there are
many worthy students of unlovely feature
and unimpressive ancestry; it is also highly
probable that psychological tests do not fur-
nish a perfect criterion of that complexity
of qualities which make the scholar or the
genius; but no man who refuses an oppor-
tunity to go to college because he is denied
the privilege of enjoying the hysterics in-
duced by a cheer deader can maintain that
he is being denied his inalienable right to the
development of his mind. And as to the.
sound mind in a sound body, there are other
and more efficacious ways of cultivating it:
than are afforded by intercollegiate football.

The fact is that the colleges have brought
their problem upon themselves and that they
have no good excuse for complaint. They
have themselves elaborated the social as-
pects of college life, they have deliberately
made the universities as attractive as pos-
sible to those who have scant interest in
things intellectual, and then they bemoan
the fact that they are beseiged by hordes of
not very serious minded youths. What, we
wonder, do they expect, when they pay five
as much for a coach as for a professor and
spend ten times as much for a stadium as for
a laboratory? The game which one takes is
bound to depend upon the bait which one
uses, and a man who opened a golf course
would not be surprised to find that those
who came to play were not particularly in-
terested in metaphysics. Obviously the way
to attract a group of students capable of
profiting by a college education is to run a
college, not a country: club, and we are will-
ing to wager that at the present moment the
classrooms and the faculties of American

' institutions are amply sufficient to give such.

an education to all who really want it—The
Nation.

| ever their means,

examinations,

|
|
|
|

| Here and There Among the Colleges

(Interesting Bits of Information Gleaned From Student Journals)

Co-operating with the college Y. M. C. A., the
Athletic Board at Lawrence College has or-
ganized a “Knothole Club.” The members of the
club are boys picked from the Appleton Junior
High Schools. Through this new organization its
members are permitted to pass “free” into the
stadium of Lawrence College to witness all inter-
collegiate athletic contests waged upon the Law-
rence gridiron and diamond. The club is designed
to break up an old practice among high schools
students of “sneaking” into the games. The three
stipulations that accompany the admittance of the
boys are that they march to the field in a body;
occupy a single reserved section of the stands;
and remain in their places throughout the ‘game.
The club has its own cheerleader and yells, and at
a recent homecoming game, the high school boys
are said to have literally drowned out the entire
crowd with their yelling.

At Berkeley Divinity School in Middletown,

| Conn., the entire student body participates at odd

moments in manual tasks to earn money, what-
All that is earned is put into
a common purse, from which each draws accord-
ing-to his individual needs. The professors also

| contribute all they can earn aside from their sal-

aries. Each student does that particular manual
work to which he is best fitted.

Lawrence Hughes, a student at Evansville (In-
diana) College, lays claim to a’ new sort of col-
legiate championship. He claims. the dishwash-

ing championship of Evansville College, earning
the title by washing himself through colege. He
has washed approximately 36,000 dishes in one
college year and in so doing has broken but
eight. Added to this accomplishment is the fur-
ther information that he can clear tables, wash
and dry 110 dishes and put them away in forty-
five minutes.

Henry Ford has recently received the degree of
Doctor of Engineering from the University of
Michigan. The degree, the only one ever accepted
by a Detroit manufacturer, was “in recognition of
his material contribution to social welfare and
his constructive imagination in the field of in-
dustry.

Thirty-four types of religious belief are rep-
resented among students at the University of
Chicago, it was disclosed in a survey made by the
Y. M. C. A. A total of 4,045 named their beliefs
and 1,069 stated they had no preference. Confu-
cianism, Buddhism, Friends, Latter Day Saints,
Nestorianism, the Ethical Culture society, and the
Salvation Army were listed as having members in
college.

Members of the National Federation of Filipino
Students, numbering about five thousand, have
signed a pledge to teach at least one illiterate
adult every year. The textbooks are in prepara-
tion for use in the campaign.

The Changing College

By WALTER R. AGARD, Dean of St. Jonn’s College, Annapolis, Md.

II

In the old days, the recognized aim of Ameriéan
colleges was to prepare men to enter the Christian min-
istry, which then meant the intellectual leadership of
their communities. That same general aim persisted
until well toward the twentieth century. But since
1900 a decided change has taken place, as a result of
the accelerated industrial pace in the United States.
A large proportion of college students now come from
the homes of business men, and often as high as 80
per cent of the graduates of a class enter business.
Relatively a small number go into the professions and
the arts.

This change in student personnel is simply one in-
dication of the imposition of business standards upon
the college. Modern business methods have been
adopted by administrators; the president of a college
has the same problems to face as the president of an
industrial concern, and has learned to solve them in
much the same way. Whatever his previous training
may have been, he becomes primarily a business man
when he is made a college president. His chief task is
actually the raising of money; in many cases he has
never been a teacher, and knows little of what teaching
means. It 4 an anomaly, indeed, that such men should
direct the policies of institutions of learning.

Our teachers, too, are sometimes more successful
from a business than a pedagogical standpoint. They
prepare neatly arranged courses, which are neatly pass-
ed by efficient students; beautifully kept records ac-

| cumulate in the registrar’s office until there are suffi-

| cient td justify the awarding of a neat diploma. Here

| is all the paraphernalia of industrial efficiency.

The
traditional academic virtues (and, after all, we some-
times forget that colleges are academic institutions)
of scholarly leisure and contemplation, of intellectual
curiosity and enthusiasm, have been run out by the
efficiency expert. Main Street and Wall Street are
extended up the slopes of Parnassus.

Reaction Setting In

The reaction to business domination in our colleges is
now fortunately setting in. There is open revolt
among the students against business control of facul-
ties, of faculties’ business control of students, of
alumni’s ‘business control of undergraduate athletics.
Perhaps with such chivalrous support, our teachers

‘will yet insist that the colleges shall be restored to
their proper function.

What that function is we have already stated: to
arouse in students intellectual interests and enthu-

. siasms, to help them forge for themselves a philosophy
of life. Students, during their college days, must be-
come, not business men, but philosophers.

The attitude of wonder is the basis of philosophy,
according to Aristotle. Intellectual humility is ‘the
first characteristic of the philosopher, likewise of the
saint, and of the child. The attainment of intellectual
humility is the first aim of the college.

The second characteristic of the philosopher is his
eagerness to relate the divergent aspects of life and see
them, not as isolated fragments of knowledge, but as
an understandable whole. This, too, is an aim of the
college. The college must not be content to give stu-
dents “courses;” it must make them aware of the
great tide of human achievement, and‘of their own re-
lation to it.

How are such aims to be realized? How are our
college boys to be made philosophically minded ?

Association With Philosophers

There is only one answer: by association with
philosophers, with men who themselves possess abound-
ing intellectual curiosity and liberal-mindedness and

power of synthesis. We may talk of the ideals of
teaching and the methods of teaching until we “tire the
sun with talking, and send him down the sky ;” only as
we have teachers who, in the words of Anatole France,
can “set the spark to the spirit,” shall we stimulate
undergraduates to real intellectual growth.

Theré are two types of teachers which colleges
should resolutely avoid. First is the specialist of uni-
versity type, who knows his small field thoroughly,
but knows nothing else—certainly not boys! The
other is the dilettante, who knows “less and less or
more and more,” whose intellectual caliber is such that
he cannot be ‘espected by the abler students. The
college must have teachers who know their subjects,
are keeping abreast of discovery in them, perfectly
engaging in a certain amount of research, but who
are also vitally interested in the relation of their work
to many other aspects of life and especially in the boys
who come to them for instruction. To find such teach-
ers is not easy; one reason is that until recently there
has not been so great a demand for them. But until
we have plenty of them, we shall fail to realize what
college education should be.

Comradeship in Learning

How shall college teachers teach? Here, too, there
have been changing methods in the past few years.
Fifty years ago the relation was the standard method
of instruction, and the teachers were inquisitors; then
the lecture was borrowed from the university as dig-
nified deportment for oracular professors. But now
teachers and students are cultivating what may be called
“comradeship in learning.” Teachers are teaching as
painters taught in the great days of the art, as great
masters have always taught, by example and compan-
ionship. They have ceased being professors to their
students; they have become fellow-students. That is
proper—for that is what they ought to be. Nothing
is more tragic than to intrust the education of our
boys to those whose own education has stopped.

So discussion groups and individual conferences are
largely supplanting mass instruction in American col-
leges today. Students are meeting in teachers’ libraries
instead of in class rooms, Lectures are still given, and
will be given, when information may best be presented
in that way, recitations must still be held in some ele-
mentary work; but the chief way in which interests
are aroused and methods of study mastered and insight
developed is by close contacts of thinker with thinker.

No one who has followed the experiments which are
now being generally tried in the United States (for
example, the preceptorial system at Princeton, tutorial
work at Harvard, conference sections at scores of col-
leges in connection with orientation courses, various
advisory systems) will deny that they are of value in
quickening the curiosity of students and summoning
their intellectual self-respect. All derive from the
tutorial system of Oxford, which has proved its worth.

The chief difficulty in putting this method of teach-
ing into practice is, of course, the financial one. Many
more teachers are required than under the old schemes
of instruction, and they deserve good salaries ifthey
are to do successful teaching of this sort. This, the
most essential forward policy in the whole program of
the changing college, is often sidetracked in favor of
new buildings. But some colleges are honestly adopt-
ing President Gilman’s priority list: “Brains, books,
bricks.” In consequence they are giving their students
the individual attention which they need and are begin-
ning to demand. In such colleges we may expect to
find those, masters and apprentices in philosophy, on
whom Americans must rely for their ‘future as a cul-

tured people.
