4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 28, 1927

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class ’

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles ré-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

BOYCE MARTIN. _*\___-..----...............-Editor-in-Chief
VERNON S. BROYLES, JR. ._..-2------- Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

AON EBROWNe a cee cuceetet ce con *-Managing Editor
W._K. PRITCHETT _- ----------Managing” Editor
Us By MORTARTLY ccoccuisl etc eei eee Managing Editor
GiOR. DANE, fiiusiconscckacecocsuseuusesulccun Athletic Editor
W. L. LINGLE ...-.... --Associate Editor
F, C. WITHERS ~__--- --Associate Editor
T, DT. JONES ie setecssce ---Associate Editor
L. C. WADSWORTH ---Alumni Editor
R. C. GRADY ~..--2-2..--.----.-....----.-..Exchange Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

E, L. DOUGLASS.- Assistant Business Manager
_M. P. CRAWFORD Assistant Business Manager
ULIAN LAKE... ssistant Business Manager
. A. McALPINE-. Subscription Manager
. L. ALBRIGHT-.. Circulation Manager
Ri 8) ABERNETHY ccc coccccuiuses acces, Service Manager

Reporters’ Club

elon ON DS iis ccuucotesenueuure eunoncn-----President
‘A. N. BROWN. ------..--.-Vice: President
Ge RigGAKhitaccuucc sfoucs cacecienienes ..Secretary-Treasurer
W. H. BAILEY J. P. McBRYD

TYREE DILLARD B. F. McQUEE

. L. ELY W. K. PRITCHETT

J. R. GRAHAM B. WILSON

JOHN GWIN W. R. WEAVER

R. C. GRADY L. C. WADSWORTH

R. H. KANE JOHN MORIARTY

J. P. McKNIGHT

EDITORIAL

NEWSPAPERS

The commercial newspaper of today has
a field of influence which is unsurpassed by
any public institution, The daily paper
serving anywhere from five or ten thousand
to millions of people has a sphere in which
it may work offering unlimited possibilities
for the promotion of any type of enterprise.
Dr. C. H. Mayo, the eminent surgeon de-
clared recently that there were three
agencies of popular opinion now operating
on the human mind. , These were the cinema,
the radio, and the newspaper. There is no
doubt that the greatest influence exerted by
any of these three is that emanating from
the newspaper.

For the larger per cent of the population
of this country it seems that Lamartine’s
prediction is gradually coming true. Years
ago he said, “newspapers will ultimately en-
gross all literature.” This is true for a num-
ber of people who have time to read only
when going to and from town on the ac-
commodation, street car, or subway. With
such a wide field of influence, it is extremely
important that the leatlers of the commer-
cial newspapers should be free from any out-
side influéfce and devoted solely to the pub-
lic good. “Newspapers are the schoolmas-
ters of the common people” according to
seecher. Unless this portion of their edu-
cation is kept up to a high level, there will
be no need of elementary education. The
mind of the adult can grasp more easily the
radical and evil thoughts if such are dis-
seminated by the paper and there will be no
need to attempt to train youth in the proper
channels if they are to be diverted from their
ways when they reach their maturity.

There are newspapers in various parts of
the country which seem to have other ideals
for which to strive. The tabloids, the scan-
dal sheets, and publications of that type, do
have a large circulation and possibly make
money, But they should stop to consider
the evil influence which they are exerting.
It is a well known fact that the general class
of people will purchase such a publication,
some for the sake of curiosity, some to sat-
isfy their evil nature, but it is the effect on
the younger generation, or tle ones who do
not subscribe to such a journal, however,
they see it and are influenced by it, this is
what should be considered. The only con-
solation in studying this situation, however,
lies in the fact that papers of this type are
bound to lose their influence some time,
people will tire of them and their dirtiness.
But it is possible that thig time may arrive
too late after all of the evil has been done.

The college newspaper is interested in
such problems as these and most of them
follow closely. For in the future, men in
college today will be the ones who are vital-
ly interested in the newspapers of their day.

. The collegiate journal is, in the main, simi-
lar to the student himself. It js only an
embryo, its staff to be developed as the col-
lege man develops. It should endeavor to
use its influence for the good of the institu-

&

tion which it represents and for the good of
the men who will be the citizens of tomor-

row. There are few papers which realize
this important fact and plea for large
amounts of unrestricted publication without
any censorship whatever. What they prob-
ably wish to do is to become a tabloid to
print whatever they wish, and if it hurts
anyone the better they like it. It is right
that conditions which are not correct and
best for the public good’should be criticized,
but it is something different when a worthy
project or institution is critized merely for
the sake of criticism.

“The press is good or evil, according to
the character of those who direct it.” The
public cannot be long deceived. It is’ neces-
sary that the policies and ideals of the*news-
paper coincide with the ideals~of the people
whom it serves. An incongruous paper can

not live long in a community in -whishAt |

does not fit, but ‘it can exert a tremendous
amount.of influence if not properly checked
before it has a chance to spread its evil
thoughts around its abode.

“AFTER GRADUATION”

Dr. T. R. Bryant, of the University of
Kentucky, recently gave a very interesting
lecture on the above subject which is so
vital and important to the men now in col-
lege. It is a problem which every freshman
should consider. carefully before even com-
ing tocollege and which every senior should
have definitely decided before he leaves his
alma mater.

According to Dr. Bryant, the freshman
should think of this-problem and consider in
what predicament and position he would
find himself after having finished his four
years at college. This is one of the main
things featured in the Freshmen Week, and
Orientation Week which are being put into
practice in the various institutions all over
the country. At this time, if never before,
the freshman is brought face to face with
the problem of what will become of him aft-
er he has finished college and what he ex-
pects to make of himself,

There are a number of questions which a
man should be able to answer satisfactorily
after he has graduated and there are sev-
eral statements that he should be able to
make with sincerity. The freshman should
consider this before he even comes to the in-
stitution where he expects to study for the
next four years. He should make certain in
his training that all of it will help to answer
those questions and make those statements
when he has been graduated. Unless this is
one of the dominant characteristics and
features of his entire college work he will
be another one of the many failures, men
who have not the slightest idea of what

they will do after they finish their work at |

any institution of learning.

One of the prime requisites of success in
any college is for the senior to be able to
say “I have had four very pleasant years.”
For it is well known that a man will never
consistently do his best work unless he is
happy. The freshmen should be certain that
the school to which he is going fits in with
his personality and that he will not be in
opposition to the salient features of the in-
stitution, Then also the senior should be
able to say that he has acquired valuable
friendships. This is essential to any man’s
life and particularly to the college man.
sinding ties of congenial affection and real
friendship mean almost as much to a man
as does the actual worth of the education
which he has received.

To some minds the: most important fea-

ture of college education is that a man ac-”

quire a working knowledge of some profes-
sion. Whether this profession be medicine,
law, engineering, business or anything of
the kind. He should know definitely be-
fore he enters his third year of college and
if possible before that, just exactly what he
wants to do in order that all of his training
may be devoted to that end. And along
with this he must have acquired a character
which will stand. Unless a man‘has this, all
of the other characteristics are worth
naught. The desire for the world’s goods
must not dominate his life. If a man has re-
ceived all the training possible ana lacks
this fundamental characteristic, he is worth-
less.

A graduate should also be prepared to
demonstrate that education pays in the de-
velopment of character and in the building
of men. Big business men have realized this
in the cases of some men, but it is important
that every college man be also a man of the
highest character. If the opinion exists that
college men think of nothing but coon-skin
coats, football games, and co-eds, then a

‘man’s education will be in vain. For he was

educated in order that a real man might be
produced and he should be certain that he
has fulfilled all of his requirements to his
school after it has fulfilled all of its require-
ments to him.

a eae en ay

|
|

|
|

a
|

If every freshman, potential ales,
and even some of the undergraduates them-
selves would consider this problem LE
and earnestly there would be fewer WHO
would write on their registration blanks in
the space beside the title Life Work: Un-
decided.”

CHEER LEADERS

Davidson is progressing rapidly in practically
every department from the deepest research work
to the smallest and most insignificant houorary
fraternity, save in one department of athletics
where it would seem that the situation would he
the most advanced. That is the method of selec-
tion and the functioning of cheer leaders. At
Davidson there is no training school for prospec-
tive cheer leaders, there is really no definite or-
ganization, there is no limitation, and consequent-

ly there is not the co-operation that there should
the student

be between the cheer leaders and
body.
This is not a criticism of the cheer leaders

themselves, for they have done the best possible
under the circumstances. Of course, it is possiblé
that were a different type of selection of cheer
leaders existing here at Davidson that the present
cheer leaders would not be in office, but for the
most part they have functioned capably in their
own position. But this is the point, were there a
bym class or a cheer leader class or something of
the sort here at Davidson, the present cheer lead-
ers would be infinitely better.

At the University of Tennessee, a gymnastic
instructor holds a class for prospective cheer
leaders for six weeks. The members of this class
are selected by the “T” club according to their
capabilities. At the end of this school, six men
are chosen by the gymnastic instructor in con-
ference with the coaches. These men go before
the student body, lead several cheers, work out at
the various games and are finally chosen by pop-
ular vote after they have exhibited what good the
training class has done for them.

A slightly different system is used at Auburn.
Freshmen report as soon as they get there and are
trained for a short time by the head cheer leader
and his assistants. These freshmen cheer leaders,
under the supervision of the head cheer leader,
have charge of the cheering at all freshmen con-
tests. They work on through their sophomore
year aiding the head cheer leader, then three are
chosen as junior assistant cheer leaders. The “A”
club, at the end of their junior year,,selects one
of them as head cheer leader. A somewhat simi-
lar system is used at the University of Alabama.
All over the country, some sort of training is
given to the prospective candidates and they are
taught in earnest in order that the student body
might know that trained men are leading them
when they are yelling at the various athletic con-
tests.

Here at Davidson there is no training whatso-
ever, Any number of sophomores at the end of
their second year may come out and this is usual-
ly so many that very few of them ever get real
workouts and the student body has very little
idea of their capabilities when they are voted on.
There should be some sort of training class given
either by some gymnastic instructor or by the
head cheer leader in order that the men might
know what is really expected of them and be
trained correctly in order that the student body
may be moved by their leading to put out some
energy even when they are not excited by the con-
test. Either this class should be started or else
the candidates, should be restricted in numbers
and have a longer period of training. By either

Ollapadria

of these two plans, the cheering by the student !

body would be greatly improved due to the fact
that trained cheer leaders are directing them.

At college one may find every extreme of moral
honesty, from the man who catches an unfor-
tunate glimpse of a textbook ni class and feels
guilty to those who can pledge copied work with-
out the slightest pangs of conscience.

A man, who graduated from one of North
Carolina’s leading colleges last year, recently re-
turned his diploma withthe statement that he had
pledged certain parallel which he had never
read, His conscience had wyged him for months,

The word “tips” was first used on boxes placed
at the desks of European hotels. “Qn the boxes
were the letters T. I. P. S., signifying \{o Insure
Prompt Service.”

“My husband likes cabbage,” said a woman re
Chicago. .

“Isn’t that funny, so does mine,’ replied her
companion. :

But it wasn’t funny at al! The next day they
found that the husband of both was «re and the

same man,

Iconoclasts, seeking a new order, are ever pres-
ent in any college. They are for the most part
followers of modernistic leaders, philosophical
students. ° They inaugurate heated controversies
over established traditions and often secure a
following of the more radical element. They seem
to dominate student opinion, but a deeper insight
shows that the majority, who are conservative,
rarely oppose their ideas or give much thought
to them. Conservatives are always backed by the
faculty who are the supreme dictators in the col-
lege realm. The radical.:can muster but puny
power in a showdown. He rages outwardly, ac-
complishes his ends but rarely. -

Every freshman class has at least one member
known to the entire student body in a comical
way. Often they are clever, intellectually bright,
but seem to have some peculiar quirk of the mind.
Often they openly seek publicity.. They rarely
remain for a second year. Remember Ebey, Mc-
Cullen.

The first chartered college for women in the
world, known as Wesleyan Female College, was
established at Macon, Ga., in 1839. Up until 1890
a large majority of all the women prominent in
southern literature were graduates of this school.

From a financial standpoint the dividends which
a college education pays to its investors make it
seem like a “wildcat scheme.” Statistics com-
piled by a great life insurance company show that
the average college graduate will realize a profit
of two thousand per cent or more. The college
graduate on an average earns almost eighty thou-
sand dollars more during his life time than the
high school graduate and the average cost is about
four thousand dollars. These figures were com-
piled after a wide range of investigation.

Where will the next war be fought? There are
twenty-one different localities in the world today
where another great international catastrophe
may take place in the near future according the
April issue of The World’s Work. The greatest
of these is China and other oriental countries,
while even Chile and Argentina may take the
struggle to South America.

Where is the freshmen who asked if the “OAK
Public Initiation” had to be held under the oaks
and elms? :

Collegiate Chatter

Bobbed hair has suffered another crushing de-
feat. Only five of the girls at Vassar College who
are to carry the Daisy Chain this year have
shortened tresses. Every year twenty-two girls
carry this chain at the commencement exercises.
It is considered one of the highest honors a
Vassar Girl can attain.

At the University of Kentucky, in the heart of
the horse racing country, the director of Inter-
mural sports is planning a roller skating: derby.
All of the eds and co-eds as eligible for the va-
rious races which will be held next week. With
these races, the basketball game on skates at
Oregon Agricultural College, and the general use
of skates at Princeton since the ban on auto-
mobiles, it would seem that the ancient Hungar-
ian sport of “Pick An Easy Place to Sit” is grad-
ually gaining in popularity. :

It would seem that the students at Northwestern
University are being trained to be real Americans
by the report of the school health commissioner.
He says that the average length of time devoted
to eating lunch in the various fraternities is eight

‘minutes. Pretty soon some marathon fiend will
come out with the statement that he has eaten so
many eight minute lunches in-so-much time.

Transylvania University, at Lexington, Ky., is
one of the most heavily endowed institutions in

the United States for its size. Harvard Univer-
sity is still the richest in the country with total
assets amounting to over $86,000,000.

At the University of Cincinnati, the campus —
opinion is overwhelmingly in favor of allowing the
co-eds to smoke when and where they please ac-
cording to results published from a recent ques-
tionnaire,

For the first time in the history of the college,
the custom of saying grace has been discontinued
at the College of William and Mary since it has
been found impractical.

That student opinion at Yale University is ex-
ceedingly wide-reaching is borne out by the fact
that the prisoners at the New Haven jail have
petitioned that the compulsory chapel exercises
be discontinued, giving as their reasons the fact
that the faculty at Yale University has recognized
that it is cruel and inhuman to compel humans to
be present at religious exercises. Wonder how
many students were “visiting home” for ten days
when the petition was brought up. :

If the state legistlature in South Dakota passes
the act, there will be a copy of the Ten Command-
ments hung on the wall of every school room in
that state. —
