© inculcated in every new man.

ha

;

THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 15, 1927

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Qfics of Pee as Mail Matter of
ie Second Clas

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the

Managi Editor by 7:00 m. Monday. Articles re-
ceive toes an unknown soutes will ptf be published
BOYCE: MARTIN © 250 c6 0000 ncs. oscysccnc cesses. Editor-in-Chief

VERNON S. BROYLES, JR. .-.-----------) Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

Ay NVA BROWIN: ciscsncsbsadencnbsnascusebscce fienaging Editor

W._K. PRITCHETT --- .--Managing Editor

J. B. MORIARITY .-.--.- ---Managing Editor

Ge Ras ATBE pha nscnyeccbacteicccdsntesusouseee Athletic Editor

W. L. LINGLE _... ---Associate Editor

F.C. WITHERS --. ---Associate Editor

Ty te SION BS) ssavucu ---Associate Editor

L. C. WADSWO bscbeccasvaccscssceassauee Alumni Editor

R. C. GRADY ..-.--.-.-- ..-.-Exchange Editor

M. P. CRAWFORD........................- Business Manager

BUSINESS STAFF

R.S.A .-Assistant Business Manager

Ss. J. ALLISON... _Assistant Business Manager

W. M. WELI Assistant Business Manager

P. ty Reon -..-Subscription Manager

B. W. DICKSON ..-Circulation Manager

Sy Wi LO RG iicdvedanswccuscncakasedecacusccauahuuee Solicitor

W. B. McGUIRE .---Solicitor

E. H. McCALL.-- .---Solicitor

J. I. LOVE.-. ReLracd ep davancabudousg lurks coseban cat SOlicitor

Reporters’ Club

IW Hi BAI DD Y wacccncscescaudthcasasustuennundugusans President

Cpa ek MiisGeicdLwisucseudcasessdcdbuhwcuaunnce Vice-President

. R. GR Magtusiivesscumssasksbenede Secretary-Treasurer
P. ANDERSON k P. McBRYDE

W. H. BEST ; Ae McBDERMID

E, T. mare McKNIGHT

M. T. GILMO: A 7 McQUEEN

A. N. HALVERSTADT W. A. MITCHELL }\

E. S. HEEFNER D. K. MILLER \

M. K. HENDERSON V. A. MILTON

R. F. JA Cc. M. PRATT

F. W. eds OHNSTON D. T. STOKES

R. R. W. R. TREVERTON

R. W. KI IRKPATRICK W. R. WEAVER

A. F. LAPSL B. A. WILSON

Z. V. LONG

EDITORIAL

WELCOMES

The men of the class of 1931 have been
welcomed by the college, the faculty, the
student body, the Y. M. C. A. and all of the
various organizations on the Hill. By this
time they should have been thoroughly wel-
comed.

feel that they have not been welcomed
éhough, The Davidsonian would like to add
its voice also to the chorus of welcomes.
For gveryone feels that we have an excel-
lent class in the newest addition to the ros-
ter of students on the Hill, and are genuinely
glad to have every one of them here.

No doubt the men of the freshmen class
are beginning to adjust themselves to their
new surroundings and learning to know more
of the school here, | It is essential that each
freshman attempt to learn something of the
spirit here. at Davidson. Every year there
is the usual blah about “spirit” until some
have come to feel that it exists only by bally-
hoo. But as every real Davidson man
knows, there does exist here at Davidson an
unexplainable thing, an intangible some-
thing which every man knows; which binds
every Davidson@man to his fellow students.
It is extremely necessary that this spirit be
It is on this
spirit that the Honor System rests,—and
also which has made Davidson men known
over the county. In other words, it is the
real essence of Davidson which every man
must absorb.

The Orientation Week for the new men
aided a great deal in helping them get set-
tled, giving them good advice, showing them
what.to do and why. But it is left to the
upperclassmen to follow up this week by
helping the freshmen throughout the com-
ing year and have them make real use of all
that they have learned in the first few days.
When hazing was abolished, the first great
step was made in cementing a stronger
friendship between the older men and the
new arrivals. The! Orientation Week ,was
another step in the same general direction.
To let a freshman know when he first ar-
rives here that he is welcome and that, there
are any number of people willing and
anxious to help him in any way.

The freshmen too, have a task outlined
for them. They have the records of past
years before them, and it is left to the class
of 731 t8 keep those records, those ideals
‘foremost in the minds of Davidson men,
~ and if possible to surpass them. They have
_ the_heritage of ninety years of unselfish
service of Davidson men. There are numer-

ous traditions which it is their duty to see
~*kept clean and untarnished, and if possible

add their mark of service in bold letters

a on the’ record. a

However, if any feel slighted or

From various points of view, the present
freshman class surpasses those of former
years in a number of respects, on paper.
Whether or not these statistics will run true
to form only the future can tell. Four years
from now when the present new men are
seniors, their progress can be determined by
their success.. The spirit which will exist
in the college then will be largely dependent
on them. Let us hope that the men of Da-
vidson then will be of the same calibre and
high ideals as those of the past have been.

ANOTHER YEAR

During the coming year The Davidsonian
hopes to be of greater service and greate
help to the students here and the alumni of
the college than in previous years. Realiz-
ing that the paper is essentially a student
paper, it will naturally be largely to the stu-
dents that the policy of the paper will cater.
But to the various groups outside of the col-
lege which are interested in the school, and
in its activities, The Davidsonian will at-
tempt to provide more interest for them in
the paper.

In all issues this year, page seven of the
paper will be devoted exclusively to alumni
news. Complaints have come in from va-
rious alumni all over the country saying that
the paper does not have enough alumni
news or articles which are interesting to the
alumnus. In view of this the staff will at-
tempt to get out articles about alumni every
week, articles about men in whom they are
interested, and i ngeneral, attempt to please
the alumnus more. In this endeavor the
paper will co-operate with the alumni sec-
retary and with the publicity bureau. By
this, the alumni will be assured of articles
written by men who know what they want
to read and will ‘be vitally interested.in the
publication.

There has been much talk among the staff

‘for the last few years relative to changing

the makeup of the paper. There have been
‘some who advocate six or eight columns
with only six pages. Some who have ad-
vocated a tri-weekly with only four pages
to the issue. But realizing the limitations
of the scope of such a paper as this, the staff
has decided to retain the form in which it
has appeared for the last four years. And
so the paper will continue to have only five
columns, eight pages and appear once a
week.

There is one section of the paper which a
number on the ‘staff would ‘like to see ex-
tremely active this year. And this is the
open forum column, Anyone may write on
any subject and hand in the article with
signed name,—whether it will be printed
depends on various regulations set down by
the college, while others are left to the dis-
cretion of the editor. However, there are a
number of things that still could be im-
proved upon here at Davidson and one of the
best ways to get any kind of movement
started is to write an article for the open
forum. It belongs entirely to the student
body and its left to them whether or not
they will make a success of it.
¥ For the first few issues it will be impos-
sible to have a humorous section in the pa-
per. However, -if the demand is strong a
weekly column. or page of humor will be
run, This also depends on the student body.
Various opinions on this sabject can be ex-
pressed in the open forum. There are some
who are extremely opposed to a humorous
section appearing in The Davidsonian and
who advocate a humorous magazine to be
published monthly by the students here.

There will be an additional feature this
year, .which The Davidsonian has not had
before. This will be in the form of a month-
ly bulletin or section of the paper selected
from College Humor and appearing at ap-
proximately the same date that College
Humor appears. There will-be cartoons and
drawings, jokes and clever stories selected
from the best of the humorous magazines
of the colleges of the country. If a humor-
ous column or section is run every week,
these’cuts and jokes will appear in it. But
it is possible that this will be the only humor
appearing in The Davidsonian for the’ year,
All of this however will depend on student
opinion concerning the subject.

Al in all, Thes Davidsonian intends to ihe
up to its slogan of a/better Davidson. And
if anything the staff or the paper does for-
wards Davidson on the road toward its goal
or add some little something to the progress
of the school, the work. will not have been
in vain.

; |
In the West, where co-education is a

tradition the women are beginning to de-
mand more equality. They want responsible
jobs on the student government. As else-
where the tradition at the ‘University of
Kansas has been for a man to be elected to
Senior class presidency.

‘progress.

Ollapodrida

The President, the First Lady of the Land and
their son John have found their way back to the
White House after a summer among the Black
Hills of Dakota and the neglected farmers of that
region. In an endeavor to bring- himself to the

level of the people The President has worn five
gallon hats, tested tis dignity on the backs of
civilized bucking bronchos, and materially aided
the West in harvesting its crop-of wheat. Be-
coming actions for Roosevelt, somewhat stilted
for the more austere Mr. Coolidge.

Between fishing, hunting and motoring the
President found time to utter that now trite
phrase “I do not choose to run.” Then as_an
oracle of old the voice spoke no more and the
political priests were left to draw the most suit-
able conclusion from the veiled message. Distant
as he was from Washington his statement went
comparatively unchallenged. Now that he finds
himself once more in the midst of discussion and
prediction, he is being pressed for clarification.
Whether there will be any remains to be seen.
In all probability none will be forthcoming. Cool-
idge may be a man of few words but his choice
is admirable. To commit himself «directly would
only mean either a loss of power through his re-
fusal to run again, or a loss of prestige among
those who would consider his re-election as a
third term. Only time and the Republican con-
vention will clarify his statement. However, one
is inclined to believe, as Will Rogers, that the
President has made the best nomination. speech
of his career.

France’s victory in the Davis cup matches has
proven once again you and money are essential
to the great amateur today. Bill Tilden,.in his
prime’ as a man, an ancient among athletes, suc-
combed to the fiery attack of Rene LaCoste, Bill
Johnson, hampered by financial press and also by |
his years dropped completely from the fight.
There is no leading amateur in any sport today
who is not entirely independent or else derives an
income indirectly from his athletic ability. La-
Coste is the son of a multi-millionaire, Tilden and
Bobby Jones have both stepped into the literary
field successfully through their reputations. Helen
Wills draws commercial tennis pictures. For a
great player they are good pictures; for an artist
only mediocre. Little Bill Johnson was a shining
light among true amateurs, and this vear. found
him ‘unable to come east for practice with the re-
sult that he made*the worst showing of his career.
The public condemns where it saeniueraeter

The season for trans-Atlantic flights nears an
end and a survey shows that more than twenty
men and women have lost their lives during the
summer in an attempt to span the ocean in land
planes. The fad and failure have become so fre-
quent that President Coolidge has been advised to
propose legislation to control the flights. Mr.
Coolidge considered, refused. The wise politician
does not interfere with the popular conception of
The fliers would -have more than
doubled their chances of success if hydroplanes
had been used. No one has ever lost their life in
such a flight while using a plane equipped with
pontoons. Only four planes succeeded in span-
ning the Atlantic out of a dozen or more entries
using land planes. Of this number two met with
mishap before reaching their destinations.

W. L. L.

Open Forum

All articles for the Open Forum must be in the
hands of the editor by 7: ° o’clock Monday night.
All articles must be si

FRESHMAN RULES

Toa sua of people it seems that the Court
of Control, or whoever has jurisdiction over the
freshmen, has rather overstepped its bounds in
restricting the freshmen this year. On the new
freshman regulations, there are some new rules
which many in the student body do not agree
should be there.

For instance this matter of making all freshmen
buy megaphones. There are many freshmen who
need their money for other things besides meg-
aphones and it is not logical that it will improve
the cheering. In the last few years, the cheering
has not been as good as it should be and jt is im-
possible that those in charge think that making
the freshmen buy megaphones will improve it.

Then too, it is ridiculous that freshmen should
have to be labled for the first three months. They

ave worn name plates for geveral years and the
idea of having them wear them the first two or
three weeks has worked very successfully. But
it is foolish to think of making mature men wear
their names on their coat all the time for three
months. In a small school such as this, men will

_know the freshmen long before Thanksgiving ar-

rives,
’ The fresh caps this-year/are absolutely the sor-
riest that have ever been seen here at Davidson.

A BIT OF

THIS and THAT

By HARLLEE BRANCH, JR.

I was lonely—and lost. It was different being
back at the college as one of the “hired help,” and
not as a student. Somehow you felt that you had
to act a bit dignified, even if you didn’t feel that
way—and it made you jealous seeing so many
care-frée fellows, laughing, and joking, and slap-
ping each other on the back—and you felt it
would be sinful almost for you to be care-free:
And, of course, a loving father had warned you
against spending too much time around the drug
store—folks might think you were neglecting your

work, and there would be criticism. It was awful

—the hotel for me.

I believe I understand now how it feels to be a
monk and to retire into a monastery, only, of

course, I have not yet taken the vows of celibacy
and the Maxwell.Chambers is hardly a monastery.

“It’s eight o’clock, twelve hours until breakfast
—and I’ve seen the pictures,” I grieved in silence.
I was in the drug store, although I had made up
my mind I would pass it by. And, then I looked
at the news rack and there was a copy of one of
those hodge-podges of collegiate humor—this one
purporting to be “The Best Comedy in America.”
From a background of green, voluptuous (that is,
if a blonde with a shiny nose can be voluptuous)
lady smiled at me. I bought the magazine—I
would go to my room and forget my solitude in
laughter. F

The first of the contents was a “Key to the Un-
fair Sex” (meaning the women, of course), and
the authoress—maybe “author” would serve bet-
ter in these days of masculinity—knew a lot about
the psychology of infatuation—particularly the
weaknesses of mankind, I was particularly in-
trigued by bits of her philosophy, which included
one especially spicy admonition to man: “If you
make a noise like’ a jackass, you must expect
women to ride you.” Which was a little too close
home to be comforting.

And then the best joke of them all—a eulogy of
H. L. Mencken, the intellectual, the iconoclast —
and in’ a magazine of college humor. There was
something rather ironical in that. And the article
was by Jim Tully, an ex-hobo and an ex-pugilist,
now turned literary. Mencken being given the
O. O. by a former prize fighter—like Norman
Selby, Jack Dempsey, and Stanley Ketchell, who
having failed “to make the long bulge upward” in
the roped arena, had now turned to the easier task
of imitating a Josiah Flynt, and a Jack London—
those immortal heroes of all ambitious road-kids.

Maybe it takes a man like Tully to understand a
man like Mencken. From the vantage point of a
lifetime among those who ride the rods, or boast
cauliflower ears, it was possible that Jim Tully
could more easily see through to the heart of the
publisher of the little green book.

But, what a string it must have been to those
collegians of yesterday who had lionized Mencken,
who had worshipped him as a sort of patron-
saint, who had looked upon what he said as the
last word in progressive thought, to see him thus
analyzed and dissected by one who claimed no
special qualifications other than that he was once °
a hobo and that he was now one of the more
socialistically-inclined of our modern literati.

And what an awful shock it must have been to
them to find a picture (the first one I can re-
member.ever havifg seen) of their former gen-
eralissmo, in a college comic, sandwiched in be-
tween jokes and ridiculous cartoons. I had to
laugh, I remembered how I had hated the thought
of Mencken, not so much for what he was, as for
the type of student I had seen making a hero of
him—and how his works had seemed to me the
most disturbing semblance of iconoclastic writing
produced in our age. The very seriousness with
which those “youthful doubters” among college
students had devoured everything he wrote for
a-while, only to discard him when he proved less
revolutionary and less bolshevistic than they had,
at first, considered him,

Anyhow, it was funny—Mencken by Tully—and
in a humorous magazine at that. I soon fell asleep.
Sapa___>=anana===555SSeSecF== =
The men should remember that these freshmen
must weaq their caps out in the rain as well as in
fair weather. They will do very well while the
sun is shining for they are very small and would
not bother one in the least. But they will afford
absolutely no protection from the rain. And one
must think of the health of these men despite the
fact that they are freshmen. -

It seems that someone should take a hand in
the protection of the) freshmen. There seems to
be too much one-sided opinion when it come to
sticking regulations on freshmen.

28.
