THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 15, 1927 . -

SHOWING HOME OF LEES-McRAE STUDENTS ae ree Le

PICTORES

WINTER SPORTS

EEE ne

vidson in the spring of 1915, and later
graduated from the Union Theological
Seminary. He was pastor of a number
of Virginia churches, having come to the
Falkland and Fountain Presbyterian
churches upon call about four years ago.

A wide host of friends mourn his un-
timely death, which carried him from this
life at the age of 44 years.

A recent news dispatch from Green-
ville, S. C., told of the death there on

November 16th of Rev. L. Cook Camp-
bell, ’15, following an illness of three
weeks from which pneumonia developed
a few days prior to his death.

Funeral services were conducted from
the Fountain Presbyterian Church and
from there the remains were brought to
Charlotte for burial at his former home.

Mr, Campbell was graduated from Da-

“Have you read any new books?”
“Don’t be silly. I live in Boston.” —
Dartmouth Jack o’Lantern.
SPOSE SOLOS REC ODSOLOOR SELES OO DDO OC EDODO OC OORO DDO E CEO ROUOEOOROSOOODOOROOOONS

The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N. C. 7 Founded 1874

Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your
banking needs.

4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit.

Trust Department under supervision of United States
Government. Make us your Executor.

Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.

OFFICERS

I, W. STEWART. Cashter and Trust Officer .
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President J. B. DOAR, Aset. Cachiert
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President M. T. WILLLAMS, Acotstant Cashier

a FULLBR HENDRIX, Assietant Cashier ." e

MeSOSooossoossoosrorocecosoooNoooeeooReoNooesoeCoNeooeonoeS Coos oRseCOUROCOOSOOECCS

R. A. DUNN, President

SOOSHSS OOOOH SSSSSSSOSSSHHOOOSHSSHOSSSSHHSSHSOSHOSOSS:
Se soccesoooonecececcosooeseeosooolesosesonsoosoooseose

Perhaps It Isn't Customary

__ But if you should be possessed with
the idea of giving yourself a Christ-
mas gift, we know of nothing you'd"
like better than a BRAEBURN
TUX. If you're skeptical about

——this custom . . . pass the idea to dad.

$40
: MELLON’S
" Chatlotte, N.C.

a ™
®.

oath

ee nN er ‘. - wetitn

.

Ee

Vagabonding a New

Custom at Harvard

New York (By New Student Service)—
Harvard's plan of educational “yagabond-
ing” has been winning enthusiastic recep-
tions in other colleges, with consequent
attempts by many college editors to bring
about similar arrangements in their own
institutions. The “vagabonding”’ is sim-
ply a matter of attending interesting lec-
tures in classe’ besides thosej,in which
the student is registered. To enable the stu-
dents to choose, the Harvard Crimson daily
publishes a directory of worth while lec-
tures, from which the students make their
choice. Harvard students had long fol-
lowed this program, but their daily has
crystallized the practice into an extra-
curricular activity.

President C. C. Little, of the University
of Michigan, while recognizing the ex-
cellent scholastic motives behind vaga-
bonding, predicts that “it is likely to have
disastrous effects if carried to the ex-
treme.” -If not permitted to interfere
with regular class work, he views it as
legitimate.

resentatives

TENNESSEE DORMITORY

Near the close of the meeting the nom-
inating committee gave its report, pro-
posing the same set of officers, who were
unanimously elected. They are W. B.
Taylor, Jr., ’08, president; I. P. Graham,
08, vice-president, and S. Reid Sloan, '23,

Wildcat Gridders Feast at Dutch
Lunch—Second Banquet This
Year .
Last Saturday night the Rowan County
Alumni Association held its annual fall
‘meeting, and as a feature they entertained
the Davidson Wildcat football team,
coaches and other officials of the college.
The affair was in the form of a supper,.
given in the dining rooms of the Dutch
Lunch at 7 o'clock?
The liveliness of the occasion was added

secretary-treasurer.

HAIRCUT?

to by the glee club quartet; composed of ; WE GIVE

Thompson, Mobley, Lowrance, and

Thompson. McSwain was a fifth mem- PROMPT

ber of the glee club present, and the five ' ;

gave several numbers which were appre- AND

ciated by the gathering. They also led in

the singing of “O Davidson.” | SATISFACTORY
Talks were made by Coaches Younger

and Tilson, W. W. Wood, graduate man- SERVICE

ager; F, L. Jackson, treasurer of the col-
lege, and Ernest Milton, alumni secretary.
The association had as special guests the
president of Catawba College and rep-
from Carolina, Duke and
Wake Forest. These were introduced by
W. B. Taylor, Jr., ’08, president of the or-
ganization and presiding officer.

NORTON’S

| BARBER SHOP

-| will be rewarded in some way by the

Battalion Reviewed
Honoring Capt. Otto

Capt. J. A. Otto, on last Wednesday,
was tendered the honor of a review by
the R. O. T. C. battalion in recognition of
his promotion from lieutenant to captain.
Captain Otto is the latest addition to staff
of officers of the R. O. T. C. unit at Da-
vidson,

The competition drill among the. pla-
toons it is said is still holding quite a bit
éf interest in all the companies. This
competition drill will continue until some
time in the spring at which time the pla-
toon having the largest number of points

department.

The order of the platoons in the review |
of December 7th was: Ist, first platoon of
Company A; 2nd, third platoon of Com-
pany B; 3rd, first platoon of Company C.
So far the first platoon of, Company A,
which is commanded by Lieutenant Low-
rance is in the lead with sixteen points.
Lieutenant Glenn’s second platoon of
Company B follows: with eleven points to
its credit. Third place is practically tied
for by several platoons who are some-
what behind the leaders,

On, Wisconsin!

Jack McGrath gives a vivid picture of Wis-
consin in the January College Humor. All
about its students, fraternities, problems, its
great and near-great.

ry

Other special features include Back to Mother
by Wallace Irwin, a complete novelette of two
young people which shows all the tenderness
and dismay of the first year of marriage.

COLLEGE JEWELRY

Watches and. Clocks

— { '
Peter B. Kyne’s first story for this magazine
appears. Grantland Rice writes on All-Amer-

Sheaffer Pens and Pencils,
icans of All Time, and there are many others.

Seal Stationery

$2,000 art contest closes Jan. 15, 1928. Important announce-

Pennants and Pillows ment in College Humor following issue. Send drawings now!

’ Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. Cc. ———_—__ |}
