THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 17, 1927 -

--- o- 3

VESPER SPEAKERS BOOKED FOR SERVICES”

—
—

Five Men Scheduled for
‘Y’ During Next Month

Atlanta Sports Editor and Pat
Crawford Included in Group
With Three Ministers

The Y. M. C. A. Cabinet has been able to
produce many excellent’ speakers for the
weekly Sunday evening vesper services, and _—_———
many more are to appear before the David- Wish Expressed That Present Pad-
son students prior to the Christmas holidays. | dling May Join Ranks of Bull

Next Sunday night, Bishop Edwin A. Pen- | Fights of Old
ick, of Charlotte, will deliver the address. | SeaTac

: Bishop Penick has visited Davidson a num- | --ow that the fraternity rushing seas@n
ber of times before: and is recognized as|is over and the lists of pledges have been
one of the best speakers the YM. C. A. has | announced, the freshman, for two months
yet been able to obtain. He is at the head of | the object of much activity superficiality,
the North Carolina Diocese of the Episcopal /no longer occupies the pinnable of pop-
Church, and holds a pastorate in Charlotte.| wlarity forced upon him by Greek-letter

The following Sunday, November 27th,)men i ntheir mad endeavor to replenish
Dr. J. S. Foster, pastor of the First Pres- ltheir chapter rolls.
byterian ‘Church of Winston-Salem, will ad- | Alas!
dress the students. Dr. Foster is the father | ready are beginning to feel the using of
of John Foster, a well-known member of the | the paddle and are becoming the objects
Senior class, and is an interesting speaker, | of abuse and molestation to the great

On December 4th the services will be con- | amusement of their so-called “superiors.”
ducted by Rev. Douglas L. Wrights, pastor | For nearly two months they were
of. the Trinity Moravian Church, of Win-| treated like kings; they were feter, fed,
ston-Salem. Mr. Wrights is a former Har-| entertained, and “drugged” until they
vard student and has gained quite an excel-| thought that to refuse the offer of the
lent reputation in athletics, especially base-| fraternity meant the certain ruination of
ball. | their college career, Today they see the

Negotiations have been opened with Mor-| fraternity in reality, not as an ideal place
gan Blake, the Atlanta Journal sports editor, |in which to live or the home of ideal as-
to fill the hour on December 11th. However, | sociates, but rather as a literal hell. for
no definite plans have been made as yet.|freshmen.. At least that is the impres-
Owing to the rush of editorial work during | sion which must be created in the mind
the football season it has been impossible for | of the embryonic yearling.
him to make any plans to visit Davidson. Until a little more than a decade ago
Mr, Blake is one of the leading sports|and even until more recent times, pad-
writers in the South today. | dling was a favorite sport in nearly every

The next Sunday evening, December 18th, | fraternity. To engage in a paddling party
will be given over to the Glee Club, when| was one of the chief sources of delight
they will sponsor a musical program present- | for many upperclassmen.
ed entirely by students. This is the annual |

of Life of “Pledge” Following
Period of Idolizing

Today only

Many of the first year men al-'

End of Rushing Season
Calls for New Sporting

‘Syracuse Daily Orange Gives View

fraternity men knew the meaning of such |
a party. University and Pan-Hellenic |
legislation has banned the “sport as a|
pastime generally. Fraternities are fast
abolishing the evi’, popular no ionger.’

A glance through the’ columns of va-
rious fraternity magazines would lead one |
to believe that every national fraternity |
of any prominence is decidedly against |
paddling. As result, the obnoxious |
| sport is disappearing rapidly. We hope
ithat, like bull fights and private wars of
old, paddling will soon by a myth; subject
for days when things
{weren't just what they should have been.
| -\Syracuse Daily Orange.

a

tales of college

HENGEVELD COACHES

(Continued trom paer 4)

bers of the varsity squad. ~Wilson handled
the Fresh, McAuley the Sophomores, Pat
; Crawford the Juniers, and Johnny ‘Kugler
the Seniors. Seven men from the Sopho-
Lmore class were called out. Six of these
made D, C.’s last year and all did exceptional
Work in clase basketball, winning the cham-
pionship for the Sophomooe class.

As yet no definite schedule has been com-
pleted. A South Carolina trip, similar to
that taken last year, which included games
with Citadel, College of Charleston, Furman,
Paris Island Marines, and University of
South Carolina, is being planned for the
early part of 1928.

“But you see, my dear, I am a married
man,”

jish

Spanish Club Holds -

Interesting Session

Meeting in an interesting and instruc-
tive session, the Spanish Club discussed
various phases of Spanish literature and
plans for the remainder of the year last
Tuesday night. This was the third meet-
ing of the year, and under the direction
of officers, J. P. McKnight, R. A. Glenn,
and Francis Ghigo, it was manifest-that
the efforts of the club. to create an inter-
est in Spanish affairs was meeting with
Success, according to,members present.

Thus, far discussions have dealt with
“Spain and Span-
conducted by
Blythe; “The Rémantic Drama,” by W.
R. Weaver, “The Religious Klement in
the Romantic Drama,” Professor Fleagle,
the consideration of ‘“Ca‘deron’s
Place in Literature,” by D. O. Westbrook,
Ir.

the following subjects:

Customs,” Professor

and

Some discussion has taken place in re-
gard to presenting a “Spanish Night,” be-
fore the student body. Such an enter-
tainment was held two years ago and,
consisting of Spanish songs, a play and
a thock bull fight, was received well by

the students. Professor Crowe is negotia-

ting with certain authorities at the Uni-
versity of North Carolina with respect to
the arranging of an inter-collegiate Span-
ish debate. | ae
Only one man has been received into
the membership of the organization this
fall, this one being Enrique Trenzado, a
native of Cuba. Other bids to member-
ship will be*distributed sometime in De-
cember, according to the officers. Re-
quirements for membership are: ..The
student shall take Spanish and have good

-)grades on his work; he shall take-an in-

terest in Spanish affairs besides being
recommended by his professor,

“So you put a couple of .magnates in
jail on heavy fines, did you?” asked the

/ investigating reformer,

“Yes,” replied the native. “We fined
them the limit; they wouldn't pay and we

| put them in cells.”

“That's a good example.”
“Ts it? Within two days they organ-
ized the prisoners, guards and jailors in-
to the International Penalty Company, |
issued $5,000,000 in bonds, paid the fines ~
of all the prisoners, left.us with a mort-
gage on the jail and the courthouse—and
stuck the surplus money in their pockets.”

When in Charlotte make our store your
headquarters
The Vog
ogue
“THE SHOP FOR MEN”
15 EAST TRADE STREET
\

Christmas service, and usually draws the |

largest attendance of the year. |

Sometime in the near future the “Y” will |
have as the speaker a. former Wildcat athlete, |

Wonder What an All-Star Half Back Thinks About

° By BRIGGS

Pat Crawford, who is well known to all Da- |
vidson men. Crawford is a native of Gas- |

tonia, and during the courses here was an |
all-round athlete, being captain of two major |

WELL, I'm OFF FoR MY 39TH

ToucCHDOWN.... FEET, DO Your
STUFF

Tose GUYS WHo'RE YELLING
FOR A TOUCHDOWN OUGHTA
COME DOWN ON THe FIELD AND

Look AT THAT LUCKY “STIFF
UP IN THE STANDS LIGHTIN

A GIGARETTE

Te’ To MAKE ONG

sports, baseball and basketball. He is now |
coaching at Guilford College. ‘“Pat’’ was |
voted the most valuable baseball player in|
the South Atlantic league and holds a con- |
tract with the New York Giants for next
season, |

Special music will be given at each one of
these services and it is the object of the “Y” |
Cabinet to dfaw as many men as possible into
taking an active part in the meetings, ac-
cording to expressions by members of that
body.

Cadet Band Aids in

e e
Armistice Program
Last Friday being Armistice Day, the date
set aside by the Government as a national
holiday commemorating the day when the
World War was ended, a martial spirit filled
the air. War celebrations were held and
things reminiscent of war were brought out
‘and viewed once more. In Mooresville at
11:30 a parade was held, in the ranks of
which there were: a cavalry unit from
Statesville, a band of Civil War veterans,
and a large number of the Mooresville school
children. The Davidson College Band led
the parade, which consisted of a march
through the principal streets of Mooresville.
This band, consisting of 45 members, after |
having led the parade, was entertained at the
American Legion Hut with dinner. Im- |
mediately after the parade most of the busi-
ness houses of Mooresville were represented |
in a parade of gayly covered and decorated |
floats. The total length of the parade was |
estimated as about one-half of a mile.
The band has been present enmasse at near- |
ly all of the Wildcat varsity tilts this year |
with the exception of the Florida game. . It |
has not only been able to greatly enhance the |
strength of the cheering as well as the vol-
ume, but it has been able to lead the Wild-
cats, their fans and backers in the various
college songs, notably “O! Davidson!’ The
band has also led the parades that the fresh-
men have put on between the halves of the

various games, Fe

THREE MONTHS '
WITHOUT A SMOKE,
'M FED UP ON
FOOTBALL,

WHAT ('D GIVE FOR A
CIGARETTE RiGHT NOW.

OH, Boy!

WHEN THIS SEASON'S
OVER I'm Goin’ To BUY
ME A CARTON OF OLD
GOLDS AND Smoxe 'e&m
ALL AT ONE SITTIN’

C

OLD GOLD

The Smoother and Better Cigarette

Zi cnramens)  +seMot a cough in a carload _
lessly). ' ; f i

.

Co-Ed—“Then have an apple.”

.

