THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 31, 1927

—

Dillard and Christian Win Places On

Collegiate Team to Debate Sewanee

| awake,

In the debate try-outs held last Tuesday
night in Shearer Hall, William A. Christian
and Tyree Dillard were selected as the var- |
sity debaters against Sewanee. W. C. Og-}
den was selected as alternate debater. These
men will hold forth when the Sewanee team
comes here on the 29th.

Henry Powell presided over the try-outs
and preserved order. The judges were Pro-
fessor Daniel McGrew, Professor Henry
Lilly, and Dr. and Mrs. Frazer Hood. These
were selected as judges because of their
‘ability in this line and their fair-mindedness.

The try-outs were held at 8:00 o'clock, or
rather were scheduled for 8:00 but they did
not start until about 8:30. They were held
in Shearer Hall, the scene of many of the
historic events of Davidson College.

Christian was picked as the first speaker, |

Dillard as the second, and Ogden as the al-
ternate. The men who tried out for the
debate in addition to the above were Monroe
Gilmour, Lawrence Dumas, Camp O'Neal,
and Raymond Walters. All of the above

have had some experience in the debating
line,;some on the varsity of former years
and some on the Freshman teams.

The question under discussion was, “Re-
solved, That the Volstead Act be repealed.”
Alt of the men spoke for the negative, as

Davidson will represent that side of the!

question.
Sewanee usually has a_ strong
team and endeavors to send its best against

|
|
|

|

Moffet is Called
for Local Church

Rev. H. M. Moffett, D. D., at. present the
pastor of Vine Street Presbyterian Church,
in Birmingham, Ala., is seriously consider-
ing the call which has been tendered him by
the Presbyterian Church here at Davidson.

Dr. Moffett filled the pulpit of the Da-|

vidson Church a few weeks ago, preaching
one of the clearest and most forceful sermons
of the year. He is greatly liked by the
students and the congregation.

He is a graduate of Southwestern Uni-
versity, having previously attended Centre
College, where he was a member of Kappa
Alpha social fraternity. For several years
after his graduation from the University he
was a traveling salesman and then went into
Union Seminary for his theological. course.

In a letter, part of which was read in
church last Sunday, by the request of Dr.

|

|
|
|
|
|
|

|
|

|
_ BRANCH BRINGS COLORFU |
C

(Cont nued from page 1)
has brought the editorial page to a wide-
readable, and interesting page of
present-day affairs that have an appeal to
college men. He has instituted classes for
the instruction of the reporters and staff at
which men who have had actual experience
in the lines of journalism have brought sug-
gestions of great value.

Harllee Branch has not distinguished him-
self in newspaper work alone, for he has
been prominent in all affairs on the campus.
He is an inter-collegiate debater, winning
recognition in his and then
when he debated against Sewanee last year.
He has been chosen as a member of the team
to meet four colleges, William and Mary,
Gettysburg, Bethlehem, and Rutgers, on an
extended Northern trip next week.

second year

He has been advance manager of the glee |
club, holding this position during his junior
year; chairman of one of the most successful |
Junior Speakings ever held at Davidson; !
editor of Sanity Rare; winner of the Junior |
[eateries | assistant manager of basketball;
| Student Counéilman; member of Alpha Phi,

Moffett, he thanked the church for the call | Epsilon and of Delta-Pi Kappa; member of
and expressed the thought that he. felt him- | Omicron Delta’ Kappa; president of the

self unequal to such a task. He said, how-
ever, he would make the matter one of much
prayer and would earnestly seek guidance
from above in making his decision. Before
giving a definite answer, he intends to make
a short trip to Davidson to look into the
conditions with more care, so that he might

debating ; ; ; ;
anne be aided in making his answer.

Davidson, as evidenced by their team last INTEREST OF STUDENT BODY

year which defeated the strong combination
of Branch and Wharton.

The debate will be held on the 29th of
March in Shearer Hall at 8:00 o'clock. The
judges have not “een selected yet but will
be announced in the near future.

Freshman Debate
Proposition Given

The Forensic Council announces that the
query for the Freshman debate has recently

(Continued from page 1)

political aspirations, has nevertheless man-
aged to secure for himself the services of
the famous machine which has functioned
so well on like occasions in the past. The
activities of this organization were manifest

propaganda, which inundated
with their bright-hued lettering.

glaring colors. Hudgins: himself, when in-

late Monday afternoon in a flood of political |
the campus |
Calls for |
support for the man ;“top-heavy with ‘It’,” | Tech, second; Lincoln, Davidson, third; dis-
and the like hit the passérby in the eye with tance, 126 feet 11 1-2 inches. ~~

| “Krazy Kats,” student
| tion; a leader in all forms of endeavor and
a true Davidson man. He is a member of

| Beta Theta Pi social fraternity.

cheering organiza-

Branch is from Atlanta, Ga., and even
|} while in high school there . distinguished
| himself as an editor and debater.
| time he assisted in editing one of the leading
| Atlanta newspapers.

| In retiring from the editorship of ‘The

|
i

At one |

|

| : : nd °
| Davidsonian, he is leaving new standards to |

} be striven for and new goals to be reached,
{and The Davidsonian loses a? faithful, effi-
cient and untiring worker and friend.

LOCAL TRACK TEAM SUFFERS

DEFEAT

| (Continued from page 2)

220 yard low hurdles—keck, Tech, first;

After the efforts of firemen to rescue a
cat which had been on a house roof at Folk-
stone, England, for two days, the animal div-

‘ed down the chimney, landing unhurt in the

sitting room fire-place, soot-covered and

frightened.

Llanfairpwellgwyngllgegerycheyrndrob-
wellandysilliegegogoch is a small town in
Wales. Literally translated it means Church
of St. Mary in a hollow of white hazen near
a rapid whirlpool and near St. Tysillie’s

Churchewhich is near a red cave.

The last census gave New York City 887,-
000 bachelors between the ages of twenty-
four and thirty four and now the New York
Y. M. C. A. has: given two thousand bach-
elors quartered in its buildings a year in

which to find a wife and home.

—

EAT AT THE

SERVICE

+

THE BEST OF COOK-
ING

Charlotte, N. C.

| ASTORLUNCH |

Scotch mixtures that have
just the right prewar kick.

Braeburn is a master at
the art of creating un-.
usual clothing for college

men - the subtle punch
that pleases.

; > ,terviewed at his headquarters on the third | Frye, Davidson, second; Sims, Davidson,
been agreed upon by- Davidson and the Uni- | a ; Pee Ris A ;
s 4 Ff ‘ : ‘floor of East, was exceedingly pessimistic | third; time, 259 seconds.
versity of North Carolina, with which latter ee isi Wie ahances, dor ihe liphilvccovelsal| :
school two teams of the Davidson Freshmen : pee 7 ean 440 yard run—Goodykoontz, pevErOOD|
: .. ;honor. He said in effect: “Of course, I) frst. Hutcheson, Tech., second; Woolwine

will debate. s, j ; live) nett) int ’ |

know I deserve it, but I feel that I am doin

And the prices won’t make

The query, as given out, i

ids ”
x Te ANE ee PCL : ou “dizzy.
STEN tir UNE es RANE EAT steels the right thing in entering this A, ee cape ene ee | z °
cancel the inter-allied war debts.” This is | ; ; : at ‘| Javelin throw—Grey, Tech., first; Me- |

; ; A | After listening to the urgings of my many! ,, Bs f : ae |
the same question which will be used by the Even, Tech., second; Brown, Davidson, |

varsity team, consisting of Harllee Branch
and Don Wharton, on its Northern trip. '

The two teams of three men each will be
produced from the try-outs which are to be
held on April 12th. It is expected that a!
large number of contestants will enter the
preliminaries. Several men have already sig-
nified «their willingness to come out. The
Freshman class has many able debaters in its
ranks, and it is certain that strong teams will |
result. The judges for the preliminaries
have not yet been selected.

As is the usual plan, the negative team
will journey to Carolina at the same time’

bates. The teams for last year were com-
posed of Bob Kell, W. K. Pritchett, and
Paul Gates, of the negative, and W. L. Du-;

e H
e e
e e
H H
e e e
ee trim PRINTING ?: d iau Clothes
the Carolina negative team will come here uelestds expressed ticuisel yeu EE far from x : Selz Shues, Al ler Calley a H
to debate the affirmative of the Freshmen. satisfied that the W est Virginia candidate ry : e Complete line of High-Grade Haberdashery s
The date when these debates will be staged had an easy fight oe his hands. D. O. West- ie} When in need of first-class job r § H
will be announced at a later date. , brook, late of Wilmington, announced that & eas f a is n e
7 Ne GAA tae ie oe |& printing of any description, see ° 3
This is the fourth year of Freshman de- eee ie ae Le eos He ri ; Th 4 Vog “e 4
bating at Davidson, the first two years re- al See eine : ont THE SHOP FOR MEN 6
’ ) ewan Pavitenl atten my e
sulting in split victories for Carolina and See ge rongive ths tater @ fun ter M4 VERNON S. BROYLES 15 E. Trade St. CHARLOTTE, N. C. :
Davidson; last year being the only one in — A x : ry : .
which Davidson won victories in both de-' Pucker and McConnell, McCravey and 3 Campus Representative, R. B. MCQUEEN H

ry

&

ry

%

4

8

friends, however, I've finally consented to
run. Don't publish anything I say, but you
may tell your readers that now my Senior
derby is in the ring, it will stay there until
the contest closes, and that I am going after |
the honor with all I’ve got, as has_ been my |
custom in the past. You may tell them also
that my platform has an ‘equal rights for
men’ plank inoit, and that if the voters sce |
fit to give me their support, I will devote all
my energy towards placing men on a footing
with women, as regards their right to powder
their noses in public and so forth.”

Other candidates, despite Hudgins’ asser-

McDonald refused to give any opinion as to
their chances, preferring to reserve their
predictions until the campaign was further

ee '

third; distance, 144 feet 3 1-2 inches. |

Mile run—Wilburn, Tech., first; O'Neill, |
Davidson, second; Ayers, Tech., third; time, |
5:05.

Two mile run
Tech., second; Treverton, Davidson, third;
time, 11 :10.4.

Pole vault
Davidson, and Hughes, Tech., tied for sec-
ond; height, 9 feet 10 inches.

Penn, Tech,, first; Bacon, |

Rolzworth, Tech., first; Frye,

QUICK SERVICE
BEST PRICES

ARAAARAARAARAARARAAARARHAAARAAA

$35 to $50
MELLON’S

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

EXCLUSIVE AGENTS

e
mas, Reid Graham, and Bob Grady, for advanced. Fleming, however, formally thank- Agent for ‘ :
affirmative: With the exception ee eee his supporters Monday night for their : The New :
who did not return to school, the other team encouraging aid, which, one may presume, Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
members have exhibited marked progress in | means a hot fight in the offing. Charlotte, N. C. x O R T H O P H O N I C °
varsity debating try-outs in this their first | ; is : pd . id ‘ :
year of experience as future varsity debaters. | VARSITY NINE VICTORIOUS anna ; V I CG oie R O Ip A 3

| eee! s ’
FIRST TERM HONOR ROLL | (Continued from page 2) ; : 4
Subiditin in | Score by innings: Rb : The Finest Musial nah ;
(Continued from page 1) OakoRidge:=222 sie ce4 000 231 00I— 7 9 7 Charlotte : in the Wor
see 2 THe an en DaVidsON = sescas cea 201 511 00x—10 7 2 s : ote >
a eae ss ia aR i Summary: Errors: Shaw, Rand, Black, | Transfer Company : Prices $95 to $ l ,000
ES paitchi ea, j Kugler; home runs, Ferrell, Pierce; three- | R ,
a Te ae igs ae en alt a se Dub-| ; All Models in Stock---Easy Terms
in; two-base hits, Ratchford, Johnson; sac-
Clas Averages—Seniors, 90.14; Juniors, rifice hits, Rand, Howard, Johnson, McAu- | PHONE 298 NEW RECORDS
88.66; Sophomores, 82.92; Freshmen, 80.12. ley; stolen bases, Johnson, Kugler; base on f :
averse 5 5 Y FRIDAY
Student Body average, 84.05. balls, off Ferrell 5, off Wells 3; struck out, BAGGAGE EVER
Fraternities—Kappa Alpha, 85.62; Beta by Ferrell 3, by Wells 3; hits, off Pierce 6) at ;
Theta Pi, 85.33; Phi Gamma Delta, 85.27; | with 8 runs in 4 innings, off Bowman 1 with | AND TAXI ; DREW’S
Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 85.16; Pi Kappa, 2 runs in 4 innings; losing pitcher, Ferrell; | 3
Apha, 84.48;.Theta Upsilon Omega, 84.25; | test on bases, Oak Ridge 6, Davidson 5;! SERVICE
Kappa Sigma, 83.42; Pi Kappa Phi, 82.62. umpire, Brandon. | MUSIC STORE
Team Averages — Varsity Basketball, |’ | _
87.38; Varsity Baseball, 86.94; Varsity] Passing under Mount Blanc, the highest | JAKE MARTIN, Prop. CREDENZA, $300.00 213 N, Tryon St. Charlotte, N. C.
Football, 86.65; Freshman Basketball, 80.75; mountain in the Alps, an underground river | ’ ;
Freshman Football, 79.85. has recently been discovered. it | eeccccce e

