4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 7, 1927

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
5 Association :

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

BOYCE “MARTIN: -sssdeaeewwiscncisucccaussauon Editor-in-Chief
VERNON S. BROYLES, JR. ------------- Business .Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

A..N. BROWN .-...---.-.---.2------.---.----Managing Editor
Wie hi GE RULGH IIT: acu. Ue ee aisc clues .-Managing Editor
J; Bi MORIARITY 205.5205... tock -Managing Editor
C. R. LAKE,...-. .--Athletic Editor
W. L. LINGLE Associate Editor
F. C. WITE Associate Editor
T. T. JONES -- Associate Editor
L. C. WADSWORTH ..--Alumni Editor
R. Cio GRADY. ccec cc es elccle ccc liccucocl exchange Editor
‘ BUSINESS STAFF
E. -L. DOUGLASS.....-..--. «-Assistant Rusiness Manager
M. P. CRAWFORD- ---Assistant Business Manager
JULIAN LAKE._-.... .--Assistant Business Manager

Subscription Manager
CuaLELwa Circulation Manager

Reporters’ Club

Ty eka ONWSbiisccedsechaus ss cubvotsasssudes isso siscelresident
A. N. BROWN... ewnebeticnpencencc-.-----Vice: President.
CRE DAK eeeesuoce. -----. ---.---.---Secretary-Treasurer
W. H. BAILEY oJ. P. McBRYDE

TYREFR DILLARD B. F. McQUEEN

J. L. ELY W. K. PRITCHETT

J. R. GRAHAM B. WILSON

JOHN GWIN W. R. WEAVER

R. C. GRADY L. C. WADSWORTITL

R. H. KANE
J. P. McKNIGHT

EDITORIAL

THE INSPECTION

Today marks another epoch in the history
of the R. O. T. C. unit. here at Davidson. For
an inspection will be made today to deter-
mine whether or not Davidson College
merits another Distinguished Rating such
as was given last year. Two officers de-
tailed from the War Department will he
here all day to inspect the battalion in every
small detail and extra time has been granted

JOHN MORIARTY

hy the authorities to aid the officers in mak-

ing their inspection. >

Davidson was given a Distinguished Rat-
ing last year for the first time.in the history
of the unit here. This came after mary
years of intensive work on the part of the
commanding officers and was a just reward
for their labors. Davidson océupies a dis-
tistinct position among the other colleges
of Distinguished Rating since it is the only
denominational college in the Fourth Corps
Area to merit such an honor. . It is also in-
teresting to note that the trustees, at their
recent meeting, heartily endorsed the unit
here and promised their support maintaining
thevhigh standard set in military circles he#é
__ teat year.

In granting the Distinguished Rating to a
school which is not essentially military, the
officers last year placed Davidson on a plane
which has nevér before been occupied by
this institution. And in being awagded the
honor, Davidson was placed on the same
plane with school such as V. M. I., The Cita-
del, Georgia Tech, Georgia, and Auburn —
schools which emphasizes the military de-
partment more than it is emphasized here.

Loud-mouthed agitators and garrulous

pacifists have for years insisted that the R. ’

O. T. C. unit is detrimental to a you, in
that it trains him for war when he should be
working for peace. This has been answered
so decidedly that at present there is very
little agitation against the military units.

The units in the various institutions are
headed by men who have had actual ex-
perience in battle, who have seen enough of
its atrocities and hardships, who have a
burning desire for everlasting peace,—these
men teach the students how to be prepared
for national defense in case war should ever
arise again, They teach war stripped of all
its glory and glomour, expose it in all its
grossness and sordidness. Students are
taught that military training has as its sole
end national defense, the protection of our
homes and institutions.

During the past year, there have been 19
colleges and universities and 35 high schools
which have applied for military units and

have of necessity been refused due to the:

lack of government funds. In view of this
fact, it is doubtful whether the move to
abolish R. O. T. C. units will have the slight-
est degree of success.

. The development of the student is another
factor of military training that cannot be
discounted, Strict obedience and loyalty is
instilled into the minds of the students and
whether or not they: ever have a chance to

|
|
|
|

be felt throughout their lives. In a recent
questionnaire, it was found out that a ma-
jority of the students here opposed com-
pulsory exercise. In this way also, the mili-
tary unit offers a solution to a problem
which confronts practically every institu-
tion. The faculty and officials of the college
support the R. O. T. C. unit where it is
doubtful whether they would support. a
Physical Education department.

Every student should be trained in such a

way: that he would be of the utmost value to
his country and his people in time of peace
as well as in time of national defense.. Our
forefathers have fought that the purity of
our independence might be handed down
to us. It is the duty of American youth to-
day to so prepare himself that if ever: a
"great crisis comes in our generation, each
man will be so equipped- that the sanctity
and sacredness of the independence of his
land and nation will be preserved.

TEN YEARS

Ten years ago today the Congress of the
United States declared war against the Im-
perial German and Austrian governments.
Ten years ago today marked the entrance
of millions of America’s young manhood in-
to a conflict from which numerous thou-
sands never returned. The one hundred and
ten million inhabitants of this country be-
gan to contribute with their lives and with
their gold in an effort to arrest the blue-
green horde which threatened to envelop the
world. The richest country in the New
World poured a large percentage of its re-
sources, either directly or indirectly, into the
maelstrom in which Europe had been whirl-

‘ing for the past three years. Agonies, men-

tal and physical, such as men of the New
World had never known before were en-
dured for the sake of the moral principles
which lay at stake.

Today the scene is different from that
nine or ten years ago. The effects of the
war are being eradicated, and here in our
own country, the war is gradually growing
less and less °real — resembling more a
hideous nightmare of bloodshed and ruin.
But the membrtes of those brave heroes who
sacrificed their all, of those at home who
sent their own flesh ‘and blood out to be
slaughtered—memories such as these will
never leave us. And as yet, real peace has
not been secured. The work of the League
of Nations is gradually growing more ex-
tensive, but there is still much more to be
hoped for. In a theater far removed from
the World War, internal strife in a large
country has become an international prob-
lem and every day threatens to bring on
some © conflict among outside nations.
Countries and principalities are still snarling
at one another. The few years of peace in
the world have net been ‘as sweet as it was
once thought they would be.

The noble ideal and purpose to which
Woodrow: Wilson devoted and finally sac-
rificed his life’is as yet still a dream, Persh-
ing, the noble leader of the American forces,
has retired and younger-material has taken
his place. Byng, Joffre, Petain, Foch, Al-
denby, and other leaders in the various coun-
tries have passed almost into obscurity, And
yet the gleaming goal for which they fought
has not yet been reached. Ten years have
seen many disappointments for them and it
seems at present that the next few days will
bring further sorrow, |

The fact remains, however, that the prin-
ciples for which these men fought have been
instilled in the hearts of many of America’s
younger generation. The plea of these
leaders for universal peace seems to have
been heard by some. , Only recently, a ques-
tionnaire was sent to students of: five of the
leading Eastern universities. This question-
naire asked for their opinions on the prob-
lem of America taking an active affair in the
Chinese situation and landing armed forces
in an attempt to establish order. A large
majority of the students asked expressed the

opinion that America adopt the “hands off” °

policy save when it was necessary to use
force for the protection of American citi-
zens.

It is believed by many that the. World
War was not fought in vain and that the
present crisis will establish more firmly the
idea of international peace; that this gen-
eration will live to see the day when inter-
national strife will be a thing practically un-
known and that all disagreements can be
amicably settled.

CRITICISM

For the past year there has been a de-
*plorable paucity of Open Fortm articles.
There must be a number of problems exist-
ing in the student body; there must be much

criticism of the paper or any other institu-

tions among the students,—and constructive

criticisms about these numerous evils is.

solicitéd. Two or three years ago, there
ocr | :

Inquiring Reporter

Collegiate Notes

A number of men on the campus were asked
the following question: Ever since the World
War there has been much agitation against R. O.
T. C. units in: preparatory schools and colleges,
condemning them as organizations which breed
militarism. Do you think that they are good or
bad -factors in the development of young man-
hood. ‘

The following answers were given by the va-
rious men:

H. M. Austin, IL.—I think military training in
college is especially beneficial, to men who have
not had it in high schools or in preparatory
schools, I do think, however, that it would be
more successful were it more intensive for a short
space of tim@@rather than dragging it out over
two years.

W. K. Gwin—Although I have never had the
military training Gfkered here at Davidson, it
seems to me to be very good and adds a great
deal to the development of the students both
physically and morally.

Bob Platt—It’s a good thing, for men taking R.
O. T. C. will never be in favor of war.

George Zimmerman—On one hand, training in
elements of modern warfare is like teaching the
rules of a game, creating in one the desire
to play; while on the other hand, when it shows
the damage that war causes, it sets the young
man against it and he is likely to avoid it if a
crisis arises.

H. B. Arbuckle—I think it is a great organiza-
tion for young men’s training, Like Teddy Roos-
evelt, — believe that wars do a country good in
creating national spirit and patriotism. R. O. T.
C. makes for discipline and unites students as
no other organization does.

W. B. Bradford—R. O. T. C. is very beneficial,
because of the fact that it is one of the most
practical courses offered here, and of its devel-
opment both mentally and physically.

W. K. Pritchett—R. O. T. C. is a good thing
in schools because it creates a hatred for wars
and causes men to avoid it in later life.

M. C. O'Neal—R. 0. T. C. is all right, because
through’ it one learns of the horrors of war,
and this realization creates a strong desire for
permanent peace.

A.’ N. Brown—I think that it is a very good
factor in the curriculum of the college. It in-
stills in a man the idea of cooperation and dis~
cipline, s@ vital in his later life.

L. ‘D. Kirkland—There are many good points
on both sides, for it develops one physicathy and
mentally, but I think it had the effect of inviting
war,

Wat Tucker—General Sherman was _ right,
though I do like to see the boys drill. :

W. T. Covington—In my opinion, it is a decided
advantage for any man to have the mental and
physical drill and discipline afforded by military
training.

Bill Flowe—Is it good?
but profanely, no!

“Major Hoople’ Clark—It ain’t no value what-
soever, and I hope everybody sees in the paper
just how I feel about it.

Steve Wall—I disagree violently with
Hoople, I think it’s a durned good thing.

M. C. McQueen—It’s a mighty good thing. It
makes a man think and it gives him a whole lot
of practical training.

The above seems to be aneaverage cross-section
of the student body, and shows that the majority
of the students believe in military training, both
in preparatory ‘schools and colleges.

Well—physically, yes;

Major

It some of the would-be student body presidents
or would-be class officers could secure such com-
petent campaign managers as did some of the
May King contestants there would be no doubt
of their success.

were numerous articles handed in for the
Open Forum column and students seemed
actively interested in the welfare of the col-
lege.

two written by students and one by an out-
sider. ~ No doubt, if a number of articles

, were handed in, there would be worlds of
“bunk and hookum in many of them and yet

in others there would be very valuable criti-
cism. “9

It must be understood that the articles
should be of general interest to the reader
as well as the writer, but there are any
number of subjects which would fulfill this
requirement. There are students who criti-
cise, and criticise constructively in bull-ses-
sions and the like, and it is very probable
that the students as a whole would be in-
terested in such a conversation. Yet it is
impossible for them to get the benefit of
these criticisms unless the Open Forum
column is made use of.

No anonymous articles will be printed.

nor will any be published which are not of
real interest to the student-body as a whole.
But despite these two exceptions, there
should be some constructive criticism in the
paper every week or so. |

Yet for the past nine months, there:
shave been only three Open Forum articles;

At Lafayette College, in Easton, Pa., the stu-
dents and faculty members are contributing books
and money to a Fiction Shelf in the Library, in
order that all of the current fiction may be ac-
cessible to the students there. The fund was
started when the Student Council contributed
fifty dollars to be used in the enterprise.

In the Business School at Harvard, a series of
lectures on the Motion Picture Industry are be-
ing given. Recently Will Hays, czar of Filmdom,
discussed problems and policies of the cinema in-
dustry. It is. understood that a similar series of
lectures on the world of fildom is being planned.

Business students at Texan University, before
they :can get a degree from the Business School
must complete a certain amdunt of work in some

business office.

Northwestern University has a new mascot.
A genuine Alaskan husky has been secured and
occupies a prominent place on the campus.

The new $50,000 pipe organ in the auditorium

at the University of Florida is the second largest
in the United States.
In the recent cane rush at the Lafayette Col-
lege, the sophomores won,’ by having eighteen
hands on the cane at the final whistle while
the freshmen had only ten. Had the freshmen
won, they would have been granted the privilege
of having a class banquet.

The cadets at Mississippi will discard their old
O. D. uniforms next fall. The entire unit will be
outfitted in snappy grey uniforms similar to these
of the Military Academy.

A new college song for Duke University has
recently been written by the director of the band.
The song is a spirited march and words will be
written for it some time before the next foot-
ball season.

A new use for discarded radio poles has been
found at Auburn when the old pole was trans-
ferred to the Athletic field to be used as a flag’
pole. 4

At Lafayette College, there are two main par-
ties in the general elections. Men are nominated

i from each party to be elected and to serve their
' party, rather than competing against men from

\ the other party, thus having the offices equally
idivided between the two groups.

\ The co-eds at Duke recently: debated the co-eds
from William and Mary. One team going to Wil-
liamsburg, the other team ‘staying at Durham
to debate William’ and Mary there. . This is the
first time in the history of Duke University that
the co-eds have had a forensic contest.

Baseball contests between the aggregation from
Auburn and their opponents were broadcasted
play by play ‘from the college radio station at
Auburn, WAPI.

“The Tiger” weekly publication of Clemson Col-
lege recently sponsored a dance at the college.
Shades of all the muses, suppose The Davidsonian
should try such a thing!

A new custom was started in’ collegiate jour-
nalism circles last week when the retiring editor
and business manager of The Davidsonian went
over to Queens College to advise the incoming
editor and business manager of the Queens Blues
as to their various duties.

At Auburn, an unsual event is held in the spring
which corresponds to the Homecoming day in the
fall during football season, This is call A Day
and is sponsored by the Letter Men’s Club.

It is peculiar to note that Hampden-Sidney had
to have a vote in the student body as to the most
popular man, when the best athlete had just been
chosen the day before. He forgot to say that the
most popular man was also the best athlete.

The band at Duke University has recently pur-
chased entirely new uniforms which will be worn
‘for the first time at a big celebration this wweek.
Moral: Have a R. O. T. C. unit band and let
Uncle Sam provide the uniforms.

A story in The/Guilfordian the past week
says that a student in class at 6:45 Saturday
morning discovered a fire. If students there are
similar to a number here, it must have been right
under him and the heat woke him up.

The glee club at the University of North Caro-
lina has completed all of its-plans to sail for Eu-
rope this summer. A number of concerts will be
given in England and on the-Continent while the
club is there.
