THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 31, 1927

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
: Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

f the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
Entered at the Pos Sia eebeiia Olnes

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
i Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
Oke trot an unkadwn eoures will not be published.

BOYCE MARTIN __.
VERNON S. BROYLE

Soie eu ...-------Editor-in-Chief
URGE a ccepisasune Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF ‘
Soaeqila line Editor

AXING DROWN: cccscouuass Managing Edi

W. K. Pritchett —---- Managing Editor

J. B. MORIARITY - Managing Editor

CORE GAKBocccss252 Editor

W. L. LINGLE ..-- Editor
F. C. WITHERS - Editor

TT JONES ister ac - Editor

L. C. WADSWORTH ~~ Editor

Rie G@ GRADY: tive sas pote cecasseaicscss » Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

E. L. DOUGLASS.........-.... Assistant Business Manager

M. P. CRAWFORD... #..--Assistant Business Manager
ULIAN LAKE....-. -Assistant Business Manager
ASE MGATSEIN Baccscccaccucsuccscsscaa Subscription Manager
. L. ALBRIGHT-- ...Circulation Manager

Ri SWABERNDETHY sscdccssisetacccceeetcl Service Manager

Die Die JONES isccstcccejece .......-- President

A. N. BROWN. cece ...-Vice- President

C. R. LAKE---.-..-- poncapune nonnauonne-pecretary: Treasurer

W. H. BAILEY J. P. McBRYDE

TYREE DILLARD \_ B. F. McQUEEN ee

J. L. ELY \ W. K. PRITCHETT

J..R. GRAHAM >) B. WILSON

OHN G y W. R. WEAVER

ke of L. C. WADSWORTH

R. JOHN MORIARTY

Af

EDITORIAL

A NEW STAFF

In stepping into an entirely new position in
any type of work, there is always a sense of
uneasiness and alarm which threatens to over-
whelm the neophyte. This is particularly true
when the predecessor has raised the standard of
the position to such a height that it seems im-
possible for the beginner to reach it. During
the last year, the general tone of The David-
sonian has been raised to a point far above that
reached by any staff heretofore. This has heen
evidenced in a small way throughout the whole
of the paper has been particularly noticeable
on the editorial page. The efforts of the retir-
ing editor have borne fruit in practically every
department of the paper until it seems almost
impossible that the present staff will be able to
reach the plane on which the paper has been
conducted for the last nine months. But this
is an incentive for more intensive work and
real concentration on the betterment of the pa-
per. It is this goal for which the incoming
will strive to reach in its nine months of active
work.

a ein an Quen:

Phe general criticism which is most applica-
ble to the various departments of The David-
sonian is that of lack of ingenuity and_ in-
dividual expression, This is a fault of a num-
ber of contemporary collegiate journals and is
no less applicable to this paper. An attempt
will be made during the coming year to eradi-
cate this fault and to make The Davidsonian
adhere more strictly to the ideals of collegiate
journalism,

In an issue of Scribners several months ago,
E. C. Hopwood made the’ statement “College
newspapers give the impression of lack of in-
spiration”. This is pitifully true of this pub-
lication, The general theme seems to have
been, “Well, what were they doing last year ?”,
And the policy set by a staff preceding seems
to have been considered as law. An attempt will
be made this year to make this paper an actual
representation of the student body now in col-
lege, their individual ideas and thoughts, rather
than to continue in every small detail in the rut
made years ago. As time moves on, it is quite
necessary that men move witb it. This is par-
ticularly true in a college or university where
the student body is constantly -changing and
where the individuals are different in a num-
ber of ways every year,

Unless the student publications advance with
the personnel of the student body, enterprising
students will organize to publish something
akin to the tabloids, radically different and
detrimental to all the students. The case of
The Iconoclast at the University of Georgia
is somewhat similar to this. Students formerly
affiliated with the newspaper, attempted to pub-
lish a more or less radical paper in which va-
rious accusations against the administration:and
the student body were made. Their attempt
resulted in expulsion, but it is this surge to-
wards the very radical and unusual which The
Davidsonian will attempt to forestall by a small

change of policy.

In several college papers, unimportant no-

__tices and irrelevant news articles give the whole

_ MANAGING EDITORS

With the present staff, The Davidsonian
will change somewhat from the old policy of
appointments. This year there will be three
managing editors with no assistant managing
editors, contrary to the former plan of having
one managing editor and two assistants. This
year the three managing editors, in cooperation
with the athletic editor, will have charge of
the makeup of the paper. The managing
editors will have different duties to perform
every week, differing from the old custom,
which was to have the men do the same thing
throughout the year. For six weeks, one of
the managing editors will act as assignment
editor but also assisting the other managing
editors in making up the paper. The other two
managing editors will alternate, one making up
the front page one week while the other works
on the inside pages, and the following week
they will change positions. The athletic editor,
however, will have page two the entire year
since this position is slightly different from that
of the other three men.

The necessity of making this change seems
to the editor to be the fact that no rising, junior
should be placed under the other rising juniors
on the staff. Since the appointment of the
staff rests solely in the hands of the editor of
the paper and the placing of the men in the va-
rious positions is only a personal estimate of
their capabilities, it seems best to rate the four
men as the same and leave the final choice of
editor in chief in the hands of the student
body, where it should rightfully rest.

The four rising juniors mentioned above are
the likely candidates for the position of editor
inchief the following year and it is almost hu-
manly impossible to determine earnestly at this
time which of the four “is more capable for
the position.

The hackneyed old quotation relating to the
fact that it is human to err is only too true in
the judging of the capabilities of a man and
it is not at all unlikely that an editor should
make a mistake in appointing his staff. And
in refusing to place one candidate above an-
other but giving all four an equal: position on
the staff, it is believed that the student body
may be able to judge better the man for the
position and the men themselves «may reveal
their capabilities more plainly.

MINOR CHORDS

(The following poem was written by Kathryn
Worth, a former girl of Davidson and later editor
of the Converse “Parley Vons.’’)

LAD APRIL

Alpril is no lady!

lpril is a boy,

Wearing torn green trousers
Made of corduroy,

Whistling through the woodland
Cheerily he goes,

Nothing. but the brown dust
Covering his toes,

Lad, he cuts a slingshot
Out of tough greenwood,
Shoots at all the squirrels
In the neighborhood.
Clambers in the treetops,
Swings across the air,
Never hurts a robin

Or « bluebird there,

April goes a-fishing

With a smali, green rod—
No one else goes with him,
Only, maybe, God.

publication a tone similar to that of a small
town weekly. This has been true to some ex-
tent in the columns of The Davidsonian and is
necessary at times The things which portray
the red essence of life at Davidson are the
articles which should be played up in the pa-
per and the incoming staff will attempt to in-
«fuse a definite Davidson tone in every page of
the publication.

Doubtless there will be some criticism when
it is learned that the incoming staff proposes
to discontinue the Peanut Parcher which here-
tofore has always occupied page three. But
it is evident that it is extremely difficult to
publish a page full of original jokes and
wheezes every week and there will be no man
in the student body next year who will be able

to do this. There will appear, however, column _

of humour written by a.member of the statt
every week. Whe page left vacant by the
Peanut Parcher will offer more space for news
stories and feature articles which should be
more interesting to the members of the student
body than a page of jokes copied from other
collegiate publications or joke books.

It is very doubtful that the present staff will
accomplish all which it sets out to do, but work-
ing on the ground already so well prepared by
the outgoing. staff some progress should be
made towards the -goal which every staff has
set before then, an ideal college newspaper. -

Inquiring Reporter |

Collegiate Notes

One of the finest golf courses in the repeat
maintained by the University of Iowa. The col ege
time coach under the department of
It was recently decided by the,
golf as a course 1

employs a full
Physical Education. !
college to give a full credit for
this department.

The seniors at William and Mary have revived an
ancient custom by appearing at their classes meet-
ings and the regular weekly Student Convocation
meetings in their full regalia of cap and gown.

The “Harvard Lampoon” in a recent issue broke
down and confessed to the fact that the “Yale
Record” is the oldest collegiate magazine in this coun-
try. The Yale publication dates from 1876.

Despite the fact that the faculty at Princeton has
deprived the students of their use of automobiles,
some of them still refuse to walk. Several members
of the student body have purchased roller skates and
use them regularly. One determined undergraduate
appeared with the sign on his back “Is this an auto-
mobile ?”

\

Co-eds at the University of St. Lawrence have
a club to prevent themselves from dating
Any member of the club who

formed
with any one man.
has two consecutive dates with one man will be ex-
pelled from the organization.

That students at the University of

Missouri are

equally as superstitious.as some students at Davidson
Was proven recently when final examinations rolled
around. One man carried eight aces in his pocket
to every quiz. All of the members of a certain fra-
ternity wore black while taking their exams. Various
others carried horseshoes and rabbits’ feet. It would
seem that if Doctor Charlie would advertise the suc-
cess of his good luck omens during the last football
season, he would have a flourishing business along
about examination times.

At the University of Minnesota recently it was an-
nounced that an intensive course in embalming would
be given under the head of the General Extension
Division.

The best dressed man at the University of South
Dakota was awarded a trip to Chicago and New
York to select various articles of clothing. Possibly
some such feature for the winner of the Davidson
Movie Contest will be announced soon.

At the University of Minnesota the “legality of
compulsory military training will be tested when
thirty-six students expelled from the University for
non-attendance at military drill classes will bring their
case into court. o

The student orchestra at the Mississippi A. and M.
college recently gave a concert consisting of jazz
numbers at the Methodist and Baptist Sunday School
parties. Good dope for H. L. M.

The first woman's college comic paper in the south
will make its appearance soon in the form of a pub-
lication from M. S. C. W., at Columbus, Miss. This
is the first attempt of any woman's college in the
south to publish such a periodical, The magazine
will be a feature in that it will exclude all “drunk”
jokes as well as the “Who was the lady I seen you
with last night?” and “It seems that there were two
Irishmen” type of jokes.

Before the final selection of: Washington as a na-
tional capital, a motion was introduced into Congress
then convening in Philadelphia to the effect that
Williamsburg, Va., be chosen as the national capital,
says The Flat Hat, student publication of William
and Mary College, at Williamsburg, Va. The bill
also provided that thirteen hotels be built. for the
representatives from the various colonies, each colony
to have a separate hotel. :

More than eighteen thousand of the 26,813 stu-
dents attending New York University work while
attending this institution. Their aggregate earnings
for the year is more than $13,000.

The following novel was handed in recently
by a student in the English department of one
of our most famous universities. It is indorsed
by Mr. Hugh Walpole on the grounds that it
possesses clearness, preciseness, and all of the
necessary characteristics of the novel.

One bull—Three toreadors
One bull—Two toreadors

One bull—One toreador
One bull

We note with an overwhelming feeling of
sadness that, according to an announcement in
chapel, Harry Goodykoontz has lost his “Reli-
gious Consciousness”.

Some announcement should be made in
chapel to the effect that there is a score board
on the baseball diamond in order that the ques-
tion “What's the score?” will be asked only a
few hundred times during a game. '

(The inquiring reporter is honest in his admission
that he took his life in his hands when he solicited an-
swers to the question of the week from the nominees
for Davidson’s May King.)

To what do you attribute your popularity on this
campus, and why do you think you are the most logical
candidate for the aforementioned honor ?

Bob Mitchell: My ears have given me my wide-
spread notoriety, and can more than qualify because
of my ability as a hoss-back rider. (reporter's note:
He has proof enough—just get him ‘tween you and
the sun.)

Pee Wee McCracey: Gentlemen of the press, it
is with a bit of misgiving that I condescend to place
my hat in the ring, and do so with the strict under-
standing I am to receive a crown in return. I am
99 44-100 percent pure male, and (reporter's note:
The other 56-100 per cent is voice, and it’s not male.)
will repay my supporters with telegraphed autographed
photographs upon my entrance into Hollywood.

Bud Guthery: Altho I’m lanky, lean, and thin, I'm
aiter that crown, and I won't give in. My face is
fair, my brow is high; my collar’s tight, and so am
I. I am the only man to rate, so pick me as your
candidate. (There you are—just like that!)

Dave Fleming: My first picture (course I'll win)
will be the refilming of “Fleming Youth’, and the
second is “Mary’s Lamb”, in which I will feature
as the wolf in sheepskin bathrobe.
kid, sheeplet—not motor appendage. )

(I said lamb,
But my third,

.ah, my third, “The Science of Alimony’—TI'll be

the twenty-third figure at the top, reading left to
front, pulling taffy and teeth in the side-show. Watch
for me.

Ed Wilson: I beseech me unlikely, that from an
ornitholigical standpoint, I should be suffer as the
losing candidate in the race. Not only can I achieve
high C, but deep bottom hath for me no terrors.
Rather would I die the death of a rag doll, than dis-
appoint my loyal suspenders.

Dave Westbrook: My face is my fortune (thus
begins Fortune’s fool), and I predict an overwhelm-
ing and devastating defeat to my unlucky opponents.
(Reporter's note: I prophesy for thee a campaign

exemplified in the immortal story of Descending
Discards—Slido, Slippery, Fallee, Bumptum, thou
possessor of an unending wealth of useless and

erroneous misinformation. )

Harlée Branch: With the invention of the Vita-
phone my chances have increased an hundredfold as
the dark horse of this election. By whom, I ask you,
am I surpassed in the noble art of silver-tongueing ?
Whom (he also asks us) could the honest, text-
fearing students prefer to me, the outstanding light
of oratory? (Reporter, noticing a lot, discovers he
uses solution of silver nitrate a mouth-wash—
hence his ability.)

as

Flora Mcdonald (Alger’s hero in “From Newsboy
to Millions”) : Although I am but a freshman (timid-
ly), I won the beauty contest back home (modestly),
and with the support of my loyal friends (hopefully),
I intend to win this election (boastfully.) (We sug-
gest—seriously—application of a board—heavily.)

Russell Tucker: By combining the desirable charac-
teristics’ of my opponents and eliminating their un-
favorable ones, you find in me the result. I, and I
alone, am the salvation of doomed Hollywood, and it
is up to you, O beneficiaries of Men's Suffrage, to
uphold the supremacy of Masculinity in supporting me.
U'll give e’m all de works!

Riggs McConnell: I won't be quoted! Yes, I'll
admit I have plenty of ‘IT’ in reserve. No, I don't
neck. Yes, I can kiss if I have to, but hope they
won't expect that of me. And say, don’t publish any
of this. (Note: I won't.)

McSwain: The triumphal entry of the
greatest Caesar will be but a Gipsy parade when, by
virtue of my trombone, I slide into Hollywood. My
crowning glory is but remotely expressive of my
nature, and, in addition to this, I can blow smoke
tings, balance straws on my nose, quote poetry, wig-
gle my ears, and bray like a donkey. I am_ the
man, vote for me!

Gordon

Droopy Hudgins: It has always been my ambition
to be a policeman, but I will gladly forego this to
satisfy the intense yearning of my admirers to see
me on the silver screen. I owe my popularity to my
having taken R? O. T. C., rooming .on the third floor
of East, and not bragging about West Virginia. I
am the ladies’ choice, I am underslung with ‘IT’, I
am the delectable morsel for which screen vampires
have been longing—vote wisely, my friends.

It is extremely unfortunate that some
wealthy and enterprising alumnus doesn’t see fit
to provide The Davidsonian with large piles
of copy paper. It is sad but interesting to note
with what rapidity a pile of one’s own paper is
depleted when attempting to write stories for
the paper.

Skit, far-famed soda jerker at the village
apothecary shop, reports that there has been
an unusuai sale of Slia-chum and Shiek Lure
since the recent announcement about the movie

contest. Who has the most prolific amount of
"1 ¢?? re “3

There has been some comment as to whether
the umpire of the games last week was really
as belligerent as he sounded. * . ~
