6

.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 10, 1927

Red Cross Drive

Launched

Here in National Campaign

November Ist bb lend the opening of the
Red Cross Drive for five million members
as its goal for 1928. The Red Cross. Drive
at Davidson College this year will be con-
ducted mainly by. the students. The plans of
the Red Cross is for an outstanding member
of the student body to serve as Roll Call
Director in the college. This student will,
in turn, appoint a committee from the dif-
ferent fraternity houses and dormitories to
assist him with his work.

The Red Cross will assist the College Roll
Call to the extent of providing supplies and
assistance to the college and will receive the
membership returns, which will be handled
in exactly the same way as al lother roll call
funds. Under this arrahgement, the mem-
bership enrollment will be handled by a group
of students working under the direction of a
student Roll Call Director.

The American Red Cross has been a great
aid in alleviating the suffering and the dis-
tress which has been caused by the several
disasters which have accrued in the United
States recently, the notable examples being,
the Mississippi flood, the Florida hurricane,
the St. Louis tornado, and the New Ehgland
flood.

Herbert Hoover, who was director of re-
lief work in the Mississippi flood, says as
follows of the Red Cross work: ‘We, the
American people, have created a great na-
tional organization that should be ever ready
for great emergencies. The American Red
Cross is that organization. And this, your
organization, is doing its duty effectively and
efficiently. It is your hand carrying out the
will of your great heart. It,asks that "you
enlarge your support that it shall not fail.”

Dr. R. C. Harding, who has supervised the |

campaigns in the local district for the past |
several years, in an interview early in the |
week declared that he anticipated a highly |
successful drive in Davidson and among the
students. Plans for conducting the room-to-
room canvass in the dormitories have been
practically completed and the entire member-
ship enrollment will be handled by a group
of students working under the direction of a
student Roll Call Director.

Race Question is Under
Discussion in University

Negroes Barred From Athletics at
Kansas University

Lawrence, Kansas (By New Student Serv-
ice)—Of approximately 4,500 students at the
University of Kansas, 124 are Negroes. Yét
the descendants of “Bleeding Kansas” main-
tain rigid restrictions to keep the so few col-
ored students from entering extensively into
the life of the university.

Race segregation at Kansas has been
brought to light by Mrs. Marcet Haldeman-
Julius, wife of the Girdard publisher. The
investigation grew out of an article in The
Crisis, written by a former student at the
university, charging discrimination against
the Negro. A scathing editorial against such
a situation followed in the Haldeman-Julius
Weekly, with the result that Chancellor E.
K. Lindley invited the editor to investigate
the charges, which he thought overdrawn.
Mrs. Haldeman-Julius, while continuing her

investigation in other Kansas colleges, pro-
fessed to find at Kansas University essen-

tially the situation described in the original
complajnt.
said, that seemingly the fact that the admin-

istration holds no brief against the colored
To this, though, there is one glar-
Negroes are not permitted to
take their last two years in the university's
No explanation of this
ruling seems to have been made by the chan-

student.
ing exception.

medical department.

cellor or anyone else,

The most glaring discrimination was

é

She found a bright side, too, she

Literary Societies
Elect New Officers

At the last meeting of the Eumenean Lit-
erary Society, two interesting open forum
discussions were held. The first discussion
was about the abolishment of capital punish-
ment. The federal control of public educa-
tion was the other topic discussed.

After these discussions, an election, of of-
ficers for the coming term was held. The
new officers are as follows: President, F.
D. Daniel; vice-president, T. E. Hill; secre-
tary, BE. E. Marsh; and critic, H. B. Ar-
buckle. At its next meeting the society will
have an installation of officers. This society
has taken in ten Freshmen this year, each of
whom seems to have an active interest in the
work of the society, and since they have the
ability to work, the future of the society
looks bright.

The Phi Society had an important meeting
recently, in which there was a new election
of officers. The officers are as follows:
President, Ralph Glenn vice-president, J. P.
McBryde; first critic, F. A. Phillips; second
critic, Frank Hall; secretary, D. F. Gaffney;
and the supervisors are Bill Ratchford and
Randolph, There was no election for treas-
urer, as this office was one filled for the en-
tire year, the treasurer being R. C. Grady.

awarded the University Atheltic Association,
for its disbarment of, Negroes from its ac-
Defense is taken behind a Missouri
Valley~ ruling, but Mrs, Halderman-Julius
| scoffs at the alibi, wondering why four
schools should be permitted to dictate to six.
| She blames the athletic association for “do-
ling more than any other one force to pro-
mote race prejudice with all the ugly conse-
quences that invariably go with it.”

tivities.

“Quips and Cranks” Will

Photographer Will Return First
Week in December to Take Re-

maining Photographs

The 1928 edition of the “Quips and.
Cranks” will be issued on or about the first
of May. Various men of the student body
have been doing work on this student publi-
cation since the beginning of the college year.
The leaders of the publication are striving to
gel all items and features in hand before
December Ist, but afew phases of student
activities, such as baseball and track, will
necessarily be omitted until later in the year.

Witt Hancock, editor-in-chief, announces
that the various departments of the work are
progressing rapidly and efficiently. The new
art work has been begun and gives promise of
being among the best in the history of the
college. Of course, plans for this work will
not be revealed until publication.

About four-fifths of the students in the
four respective classes have had their photo-
graphs made. The photographer will return
at an early date after the spring holidays, at
which time the remaining fraction of -the
four classes will have another chance to have
their individual pictures taken. The proofs
for photographs taken several weeks ago will
come back early in December. The week
ending Saturday, November 12th, will be the
last chance for Seniors to hand in their
write-ups and honors.

The business manager, Carter Rowe, re-
ports that his department of the work is well
under way. He is in receipt of advertise-
ments from several business firms of the
larger cities in the state. The yearly pudget,
having been planned for some time, is work-
ing out smoothly. The three main sources
for annual: finances are: Advertisements, a
portion of the campus tax, and charges for
space given to individuals and to organi-
zations.

The announcement has been made of the

be Issued Fir First of May

1927 edition of “Quips and Cranks” being
awarded first prize among all annuals edited
by schools of less than 1,000 enrollment.

“You can’t get naughty magazines in
some towns I know of.”

“Won't let ’em sell ’em, eh?”

“No, they’re sold out !”—Goblin.

oc arp pererorrs od

Among surnames in England the com-
/monest are Smith, Jones, Brown, Taylor,
Davies, Wilson, Walker and. Morris.

Men may ride on Texas trains in their
stockinged feet with the full sanction of
the railroad commission of that state.
The decision comes as a result of a peti-
tion from a woman who demanded that
men be prohibited from removing their
shoes, boots or sandals while riding on
trains.

The first municipal public conveyance
was used in Nantes, France, in 1825. A
few years later the omnibus was intro-
duced into London.

“Does his mind ever wander?”
“Well, not aimlessly. It always goes
directly down.”—U. of C. Calif. Wampus.

Footwear
for Davidsonians

We Want to
Meet the New
Men .

And Renew
Acquaintances

With the Old!

Visit Us

Gilmer-Moore Co.

at Charlotte

SHOES LUGGAGE

New

_ Victor

TAKE YOUR CHOICE HERE!

We have at all times a complete stock of

Brunswick Panatropes

New Records Every. Friday

A Complete Line of RCA
Radios from $69.50 to $895.

Orthophonic Victrolas
and

«4

Also

and Brunswick Records

smokers dont change —

with the seasons...

<= FORTHE BEST

... but watch how other smokers are changing to Chesterfield!

Peerescean
Sasseeead
Cire
“ee008tOm.
we
Recececessa

“=, OF GOOD REASONS =
“=. better taste/
e

found, however, where “the line between ad-
ministrative and student control becomes in-
determinate.” The cafeteria is frequented by
about 25 Negroes and about 400. whites, yet
the Negroes are segregated. The bouquet
for most obvious and unfair prejudice was

Maxwell Chambers Hotel

“The best board on
| the Hill”

A trial is all we at
. - Student manager

Cittoy-
aw

<Seniatiai
