4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 15, 1927

——

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘IS.
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy: $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not he published

BOYGE= MARTIN: ctscsi.csccc cdasiccueues Feecrsttiees Weak

M. P. CRAWFORD Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF

AS UNS BROWN: 2 thes saatecies SS Sec ce, Managing Editor

W. K. PRITCHETT ~ -Managing Editor

J. B. MORIARITY -Managing Editor

GC RARE sacs. ---Athletic Editor

BicAre Wun Neseiuszcsuscscasstcusstescos ----Feature Editor

Wits sGING UM wtasicicsscoslascolusscasenese A iate Editor

Re CUAWLDEUDRS  casccscnccdsasuboncanosaseau! Associate Editor

t Ty JONES cecsccaccacs ee -Associate Editor

4 C. WADSWORTH .. ----Alumni Editor

RG; DY citasuuvdcsdub seaccuccaa subsea Exchange Editor
BUSINESS STAFF

R. S. ABERNETHY....-.-..--- Assistant Business Manager

S. J. ALLISON.-.-... ..-Assistant Business Manager

W. M. POWELL...- Assistant Business Manager

P. te, ON BEOR Seeryecey Subscription Manager

B. W. DICKSO ---Circulation Manager

Si We MORRI Si Wi istbcbsccdessaccnbccsuauuesubosmaacss Solicitor

WwW. B ---Solicitor

E. H. Solicitor

Wi DANII Yo ib cbscencecsslduabaucustesccssesugnans President

. Le EL

;east

i P. ANDERSON R. W. McDERMI

W. _H. BEST W. B. McQUEEN

E. T. EDELMAN F.. D. MILLER

E. S. HEEFNER V. A. MILTON

M:? K. HENDERSON c¢. M. PRATT

R. F. JARRATT D. T. STOKES

F. W. JOHNSTON W. R. TREVERTON |

Z. V. LONG W. R. WEAVER |

J. P. McBRYDE B. A. WILSON |

EDITORIAL

THIS COMPETITIVE SYSTEM

One of the most striking examples of in-
efficiency and lack of co-operation here at
Davidson is evidenced in the present system
of undergraduate competition for various
positions. This is noticed particularly in
the publications and to some extent in the
other activities. The situation is this, one
senior with the possible aid of one or two of
his classmates directs a horde of underclass-
men in one particular litte of activity. The
evils of this system are at once evident. A
senior who has worked .two or three years
along one activity, fails to achieve the high-
est position in this activity, and drops out
entirely. From a number of aspiring can-
didates there remain two or three who have
had four years’ experience in their line of
activity. Other capable men have either
dropped out or have been eliminated. In this
way the burden of directing the train of the
underclassmen rests upon two or three in
every activity. What it really amounts to
is that one or two men are trained and be-
come useful while the others leave this par-
ticular field of endeavor.

To take for an example this publication,
we can say without fear of being contradict-

‘ ed, that not more.than two men, exclusive
-of the editor, in the senior class have done
any appreciable amount of work on this
paper. The underclassmen are active, but
the valuable training which several in the
‘class took advantage of in their first two or
three years has been wasted. On the an-
nual, not more than three seniors, exclusive
of the editor, are doing any work on the
year book. In the recent issue of the college
magazine only one senior had any work in.
the issue. The editor had written his edi-
torial and one senior had a few bits of verse.
~—In the managerial competition this type
of work is logical, since one senior can man-
age the assistants very efficiently. But
along other lines, such as honorary frater-
nities, this system is noticed for its numer-
ous faults. One senior possibly is in charge
of the organization, one’ or two others at-
tend meetings occasionally. They have done
their bit by accepting the bid, they see no
further need for any labor. When they do
attend meetings, they’ sit abstractedly and
~ boredly wondering when that ignorant dude
will ever finish his fool paper and waiting
for adjournment. i

In the literary societies also this fault is
noticeable. Freshmen and sophomores at-
tend meetings regularly and evidence quite

‘a bit of interest in the working of the or- ’
_ ganization. In the junior year the men be-
-gin to drop, in the senior year a society has
ee e well if it can have a different president
or each of the three terms.

criticism against the above argu-
‘in the junior and senior years a
ered so many activities that he

* drop one or two in order,

k done at all.. This argument

is fallacious in itself. Are not college men
intelligent enough and men enough to keep
out of organizations which they readily
know that they will be unable to support?
It seems that the present trend at Davidson
is for a man to enter everything from which
he thinks he will derive any good, and to
drop this organization or activity as soon as
it can help him no further, If such is the
case then it is quite time for some sort of
reform here. If this is not the case, the
solution to the problem should be worked
out in some other way. As it is now, the
most valuable men of the campus are either
frittering away their time at useless activ-
ities or are overburdened with work which
is thrust upon them. If all the men inter-
ested in various activities during their fresh-
man and sophomore years were induced to
devote their best efforts to this organization
their last two years, the entire situation
would be cleared up.

DAVIDSON COACHES

While one is lamenting and bewailing the
apparent unsuccessful football season just
finished, he should stop to consider that de-
spite the fact that material evidence of suc-
cess was not shown-during-the-past-season,
indirect results still prove that we have two
of the greatest coaches ever at Davidson.
The proteges of Davidson men won the high
school football championship of North Caro-
lina and the prep school championship of
Virginia and Maryland. Black, an old Da-
vidson man, coaching at the New Hanover
High School at Wilmington, N. C., had a
most successful season, climaxed by defeat-
ing the Greensboro team at Chapel Hill for
the championship of the state. Leonard
Dick and Joe McConne]l.at Woodberry For-
est directed the destiny of this fighting team
and steered them to the prep school cham-
pionship of Virginia and Maryland. Prac-
tically this proves nothing for Davidson, but
theoretically it shows that the Younger-
Tilson regime and their system of coaching
can achieve striking results when the proper
material is furnished.

All of which again points to a thing which
has been emphasized for the past few weeks,
namely, this, that somehow. proper material
must be furnished these coaches and David-
son will again have as good a team as rep-
resented her during the season of 1926. If
the student body and all interested in David-
son could take this fact to heart there would
be few who would worry over Davidson's
football prospects for future years.

| Collegiate Comment

The football season at Oglethorpe University
extends through December 17. The first game ‘on
the schedule was not played until October 15.

A course in every day fashions is being given at
New York University this year,

Richard Rowden, of Columbia, comes into the
limelight by claiming the most unusual and in-
genious way of working his way through school.
He is the official worm supplier for the zoology de-
partment. His most recent quotation of prices
was twenty cents a dozen,

A novel prize was given last year at De Pauw
University. This prize was a brown derby and
was given to the student who had done the least
work towards graduation. Skill in bluffing, in
picking “crip” courses, and in cutting classes was
the basis upon which the prize was awarded.

Otto H. Kahn, of New York City, spoke at the
I5Ist anniversary of the founding of Phi Beta
Kappa at the initiation ceremonies at the College
of William and Mary last week.

Allegheny College, of Meadville, Pa. is in an
uproar over the disastrous failure of the football
‘season just concluded. Editorials in the college
weekly, stump speeches, drives, and other insti-
gators of interest are in full swing in an attempt
to put Allegheny once more before the eyes of the
athletic world.

Harvard is finding much happiness in the no-
table increase in honor students this year, ac-
cording to a report made by the New Student
service, Of the undergraduates, freshmen excluded,
31.7 per cent have been approved for honors stand-
ing. This is an increase of three per cent over
last year.

A course in Folk Dancing is. included in the
curriculum of the co-eds at the University of Ala-
bama. :

The Mercer Cluster in a recent issue runs a news
story telling how the paper is made up, who does
the work, etc. Much praise is given the unsung

heroes of the copy desk. |

Ollapodrida

The United States Congress, that great brother-
hood of lawmakers, has assembled once more in
its judicial chambers: at Washington. Many new
faces marked the gathering and many were the
new oaths to be administered. In the Senate sat
two black sheep, Vare of Pennsylvania and Smith
of. Illinois. Both had been duly elected by the
regular processes of law but opposing probes re-
vealed the expenditure of much money. Further

probes revealed that among those voting for Vare_

were a dead man, a child of five, and at least
twenty-five persons who did not vote. The av-
erage price per. vote for Mr. Vare was three dol-
lars. Came the time for the administration of
oaths and the gentleman rose only to be relegated
to his seat while heated debates ensued, Finally
he was ousted until further inquiry could be made.
Smith made no move to take the oath and suffered
a similar fate. Other senators are under the
watchful eye of their fellow lawigivers. Graft
and perjury, very prevalent among small political
bosses, has reached the highest courts and judicial
bodies of our land.

As Congress met many and varied were the
issues to be brought tp for its consideration; -Fore~-
most among them were tax reduction and flood
control. In making his annual report Secretary
Mellon showed a surplus for the year of 635 mil-
lion dollars in the treasury. Similar surpluses
were predicted by him for 1928 and 1929. With
his report he recommended a tax cut of 225 mil-
lion dollars. Democrats have urged a cut of 309
million dollars and the National Chamber of Com-
merce one of 400 million dollars and this almost
wholly to corporations. Others planned to use the
surplus for flood control in the Mississippi valley
and New England. The President sided with his
secretary and reminded the nation that our coun-
try still carries a war debt of many billion dollars.
The President’s conservative tactics have shown
themselves to advantage for once. No nation
ever suffered because of a surplus in its coffers.

There are at present 20,000,000 cars in the United
States and half of these are old Model T Fords.
Last week the originator of the cheap motor pre-
pared to flood the country with another product of
his gigantic industry. Since the car was first
placed on the market orders for more than one
million cars have’ been received by the company
which will work the plant to capacity fora year at
least.

Ford dealers once more wreathed their
faces in smiles. The wolf left their door tempor-
arily. Dealers profit to the extent of twenty per

cent on every Ford car sold. Other motor. deal-
ers make twenty-four per cent. In the past larger
sales have more than balanced the smaller profit.
Regardless of the tremendous number of orders
received Ford continued to work his men only five
days a week. As a social reformer Ford has led
the way in the motor industry but with no con-
sideration at all he left his dealers unsupported for
six months. One might be inclined to think that
he possessed a single track mind.

Last Friday a Wayne county negro attacked a
fifteen-year-old girl, killed her, escaped. Satur-
day he was captured. Sunday he was brought be-
fore the bar of justice at Goldsboro, A jury was
hastily impanelled. The record of the case was
read, the case was submitted to the jury and sixty
hours after the crime had been committeed the
negro had been sentenced to die in the electric
chair one month hence, During the Sabbath court
proceedings the father of the girl, ably assisted,
attempted to lynch the unfortunate black. Riot
followed and the judge equally assisted quelled it.
In a spirited message Governor McLean com-
mended the jurist upon his action and sympa-
thized with the uncontrollable emotions of the
bereaved father. No mention was made of the
poor negro, Whose passions had been equally
violent and uncontrollable, tried at a hasty session
of court, before a prejudiced jury, without adequate
cownsel and facing certain conviction. At the
same time Mr, Average Citizen is.commending the
government for the equal rights given to its en-
lightened negroes.

Since time immemorial the Catholic church
has been controlled by an Italian Pope and a ma-
jority of Italian Cardinals. The present ecclesias-
tical ruler has taken a radical step and ordered the
creation of four more Cardinals. Non-Italian Car-
dinals will then outnumber Italian Cardinals 33 to
32.. Whether the move will be the forerunner of
a non-Italian Pope in years to.come is a matter for
speculation. Certainly the church is taking a
broadening step.

: W. L. L.
A new infirmary for the college students will be

built some time within the near future at Lafay-
ette College, Easton, Pa.

- «

The Theatre Guild at M.S. C. W. is planning
to sponsor several plays and a lecture on drama
some time in the spring. ‘ ‘

The Epsilon Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa at

in the Kaw River.

A BIT OF

THIS and THAT

By HARLLEE BRANCH, JR.

By HARLLEE BRANCH, Jr.

The glamorous artificiality of civilization has
lost again. I have a rather fantastic idea that
Jack London’s novel “The Call of the Wild,” a
biological study in reversion to type, 1S being
enacted in real life, with a little wisp of a girl
taking the part of London’s domesticated dog—re-
volving against all efforts to tame her savage
heart. Or, better still, that Robert Herrick’s earl-
iest novel “The Gospel of Freedom,” insofar as it
deals with a modern woman's rebellion against
established conventions, is finding substantiation
in the recent eccentriciticies of Florence Adams,
girl from the wilds. ;

Florence Adams is no creature of the imagina-
tion or circus ballyhoo. Nor is her revolt against
civilization a matter of fiction. Vina Lindsay, uni-
versal news service correspondent, is authority for
the queer story of Florence Adam’s life which has
recently appeared in the leading newspapers of the
land.

A six years’ trial of civilization has convinced
Florence that jungle life is to be preferred to
modern city” existence, -She—has~discarded*-her
sleevetess dresses, silk stockings, paint and powder,
donned hickory skirt and overalls and returned to
a Robinson Crusoe existence on a lonely island in
the Kaw River, near Topeka, Kansas. She-was
taken from the island by probation officers in 1921.
She has been permitted to return after six years
for the sake of her two small sons whom she de-
sires shall have the same primitive start in life as
herself. She has separated from the boys’ father,

‘John ‘Lane, a Topeka youth, whom she married

shortly after she made her debut into civilization.

With her father, Andy Adams, a hermit, Fiorence
and her children will live in an underground cave.
It is the same scave in which Florence was born
21 years ago.

Old Andy Adams, the recluse, was once a pros-
perous business man in western Kansas, Financial
reverses embittered him, made him despise human-
ity. In order to get as far away from civilization
as possible, he took his family to the lone island
One by one the members of
Adams’ family tired of the primeval existence and
left the island. Only Florence and a younger
brother were with their father when probation
officers forced their way into the cave and took
the girl into custody.

That was six years ago. When Florence was
brought into Topeka she was as ignorant of civ-
ilization as a savage. Given a dress, she did not
know how to put it on. She saw her first shoes
and stockings. The bright lights intrigued her.
She was soon going to movies and to dances, she
bobbed her hair, and became addicted to flapper
clothes. She married John Lane, a city youth, and
bore him two sons. ;

After her children were born she grew home-
sick for her old life on-the island. Disagreements
with her husband led to a separation, She de-
cided to take the children and return to her father
in his island cave.

Now she is happy again. She has turned her
back on civilization. Her two sons run about the
island unclad, and have already become as wild
as their mother once was. Adams obtains food
for his daughter and his grandsons by fishing and
hunting. The cave in which the family lives has
no windows. The :floor is of dirt. Beds are of
pine boughs. The only furniture is a chair and a
roughly hewn table. When Adams made his re-
treat into the wilds, seeking forgetfulness of man-
kind, he left behind him all the possessions that
might remind him of civilization. j

Florence, playing with her two sons on the sands
of the island beach, paused recently to denounce
city-life: “The city is all right for those who like
it,’ she says. “But no one can be free in it.
Street cars and automobiles run over you and
neighbors bother you. Everything is rush and
worry.”

A business letter costs 14.972 cents on the aver-
age and twelve cents of that amount goes to the
stenographer who takes and types the letter.
Multigraph and addressing machines have helped
cut the cost but still it is high. Now a young in-
ventor claims to have a machine which will type a
letter as it is spoken to by the operation. It is
far too complicated to be practical yet, but like
television it will await simplification. The man
who does either will make millions, and benefit
the race.

Here at Davidson a natjonal record has been
established, showing again how small a world we
live in. Norfleet’s record metal test has received
national comment. Such tests have not yet been
established as an exact science, however. They
simply show ability and not initiative. A recent
graduate of this college scored 80.0n a similar
test out. of a possible 220 and became one of the
scholastic leaders of his class, while another record
scorer was among the lowest. However, the tests"
are a good thing because they have been proven
accurate in a majority of cases.
