ow

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

2

Vol. XV.

DAVIDSON COLL§GE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 15, 192

No. 1

2

SENIOR CLASS OF UNUSUAL PROPORTIONS

ENROLLED

Davidson Military Unit
Receives Distinguished
Rating for Second Time

One of Six Schools in Corps Area to
to be’ Honored

RATED HIGHEST
Blue Stars Will be Worn on Blouse

in Recognition of Distinguished
Rating

For the second consecutive year, the Re-
serve Officers’ Training Corps Unit of
Davidson College has been given the distin-
guished rating by the War Department. In
1926 Davidson first won the Distinguished
rating with efficiency percentage of 89,5 per
cent. This year’s percentage was raised’to
92.43 per cent. This was the highest rating
given to any school in the Fourth Corps
Area, which includes North andSouth Caro-
lina, Alabama, Louisiana, iSsissippi, Florida
and Tennessee. Of the“15 schools. recom-

mended for distinguished rating, only six re-
ceived it. They were: Citadel, Clemson, Da-
vidson, Miss, A. & M., Auburn, and Florida. |
Winning jae highest efficiency percemage in |
competition with schools which are pri-
marily military reflects much honor upon the
Bavidson unit and its directors.

The rating is made on a basis: of 100 per
cent. The work is divided into several dif-
ferent phases, all of which count a certain
per cent. Theoretical and practical work
count a great deal. Other factors which have
contributed to the rating of the unit were
the support of the faculty, the spirit of the
student body, the drill ground facilities, class
toom equipment and the support of The Da-
vidsonian.

The recognition of the distinguished rating
is a blue star which is worn on the sleeve of
the blouse. These stars will not be issued
until the blouse is donned in bodily defense of
the biting cold.

(Continued on page 6)

New “Orientation Week”
' Program Benefits Rats

Dr. Thompson Delivers Feature
Address on “College Ideals”

A new and very worth-while feature of
the college opening this year was “Orenta-
tion Week,” instituted for the benefit of the
new men. The need for such a program at
Davidson has long been felt and it has
already proved to be of great value to fresh-
men and old men.

Freshmen were required to arrive in Da-
vidson on Monday, September 5th, in order
to unpack. straighten ‘rooms, and become
somewhat acquainted with surroundings.
Then on Tuesday all were required to reg-
ister before 5:00 p.m. The “Y” men were
on hand, meeting all trains and busses to give
information and directions to the new men.

Tuesday night at 7:30 all freshmen were
required to meet in Shearer Hall for the
opening program of “Orientation Week.”
Charles McRae, president of the “Y,” con-
ducted a short devotional exercise, which was
followed by a short but appropriate address
of welcome to the new men by Hugh Arro-
wood, student body president.

Introduced by Dean Williams, Dr. W. T.
(“Tolly”) Thompson, Professor of Reli;
gious Education at Union Theological Semi-
nary, delivered —astirring—address—to~ the
freshmen on “College Ideals.”

His appeal to the new men was for moral-

(Continued on page s)

New Students Are
Entertained With
Reception on Lawn

One of the most enjoyable social events of

the year was the freshman reception last

yy,
Monday evening at 8:00 o'clock, at which the
Y. M. C. A. was host to the Freshman and
Senior classes and to the members of the
faculty with their wives. The reception was
entirely informal and wag given by the “Y”
to better acquaint the freshmen with their
professors and fellow-students and to let
them really know fellowship which pervades
the Davidson campus.

That fart of the campus Which is near the
“Y’Avas lighted by the soft glow of Japanese
Janterns and under the light, various members
of the faculty, their wiyes and the
class acted as receiving/kroups to welcome
and introduce the Frgshmen. Much good
feeling was displayed and the new boys were
made to feel very much at ome.

Punch was served throughout the evening
and at an appropriate time, ice cream and
cake was served under the-direction of Mrs.
F. W. Hengeveld and Miss Kalista Hood,
assisted hy several attractive voung ladies.

During the hour of the reception, Fresh-
men from 20 states were brought together in
a congenial way to be made to feel that Da-
vidson offers them a splendid heritage and
that the college is a place where the fellow-
ship, such as they enjoyed last evening, exists
all of the time.

(Continued on page 7)

Senior

Davidson Students
Honored in Contest

Two Davidson men received honorable
mention in the Briand Speech Contest for
their translation of Premier Briand’s speech,
which was delivered in French on the occa-
sion of the welcome to the German delegates
to the League of Nations last November,
dispatches from the Washington headquarters
disclosed. These men were M. T. Gilmour,
of Wilmington, N. C., and C. J. Albright, of
Richmond, Va.

In the Briand Speech Contest seven prizes
were offered for the best translations of Pre-
mier Briand’s speech. Although neither of
the Davidson men received a prize for their
translation, they, with five other students in
North Carolina colleges, took seven honor-
able mentions. There were. 42 honorable
mentions, Massachusetts being first with nine
and North Carolina second with seven.

It was stated that 2,576 students submitted
papers, representing 1,654 institutions. Since
only the best translations were sent to the
headquarters in Washington, it hds been esti-
mated that over 100,000 students took part in
the contest. Each institution was allowed to
send not over six translations.

The secretary of the commission in charge
of the contest in notifying Davidson through
Dr. Thomas W. Lingle, who had the men in
his French class, stated, “You and Davidson
College are certainly to be congratulated on
obtaining two places in the honorable mention
list. For that matter, you will note that
North Carolina ‘shows up’ remarkably well.”

The other five honorable mentions coming
to North Carolina were all taken by women
and were divided among Flora Macdonald,
N. C. C. W,, and Catawba College, Flora
Macdonald and N. C. C. W. getting two
each. The students thus signally honored
were, Miss Margaret Bell’ Balfour, of Salis-
bury, N.C,, Catawba College ;Miss-Thelma.
Cromartie, of Elizabethtown, Flora Macdon-
ald College; Miss Julia ‘White, of China,

(Continued on page 3)

Football Prospects For
1927 Appear Bright as

Harrison, Grey and Nisbett
Compose Backfield

LINE IS WEAK

Candidates Start Second Week of
Drilling and Grinding With
Tenacious Spirit

Wilson,

After a full week of football practice has
been completed the various North Carolina
teams are summing up their assets and: liabil-
oe . . . ’ a
ities in the line of material for the contig
season with quite an array of results.
majority of the schools in the Big Five
seem to be looking forward to good seasons
with the teams sémewhat strengthened over
the ones last year.

Coaches Monk Younger and Tex Tilson
reported at the Wildcat lair, and being some-
what baffled by the meager group of letter
men that returned for early practice, grimly
shouldered their axeg*and started hewing out
raw material tu fil Wie gaping caverns lel

championship team of last year,

Having eight veterans back on the field,

shaping them up and, working over a rather
inconspicuous bunch of men who came up
from last year’s freshman team, The thin
red line had as a nucleus only four men, they
being three guards and an end, therefore
needing quite a bit of bolstering up before

anything like the famous line of a year ago
could be competed with. From carly until
late these boys are drilling and grinding with

a tenacious spirit to hold the reputation which

jis left upon them and at the present time |

| they are gradually looking more promising
ee becoming more accustomed to the task
that lies before them.

(Continued on page 8)

McRae and Appleby Tal

at “Y” Vesper Services

Enthusiastic Welcome Extended to
New and Old Students

Last Sunday night the Davidson Y. M.
C, A. held their first of the regular Sunday
Vesper Services in Shearer Hall, under the
leadership of Dick Flynn. The meeting was
opened by a song and prayer, after which
the speakers for the evening were introduced.

The first speaker on the program was
Charlie McRae, President of the Y. M. C. A.
He opened his talk with a few words of wel-
come to the old men, in returning, and to the
new men in their first contact with college
life.
sage, “If thy hand or foot offend thee, cast
it from thee.” He brought out the fact that

every man is confronted with two inner mo- |

(Continued on page 5)

The |

by the loss° of, experienced men from the |

the coaches started strenuous work on them |

Davidson Faculty
Augmented by Ten

Davidson has, by some, been criticised for
growing too large and thereby losing that
| ee ; 1
| personal touch in instruction for which she
has long been famous.
| ever, can no longer be made.
la statement recently released by Dr. Martin,
we have this year only 14 students to each
professor,
adding 10 new the faculty
while the student body was kept at approxi-
mately the same size. When the four pro-

professors to

fessors ‘on a leave of absence for the year

“return, the ratio will be reduced to one pro-

| fessor to only 12 students.

Prof, J. C. Bailey, who taught Greek and
| Bible, is at Johns Hopkins studying Greek,
| Prof, I. At Beatty, in
| English, is studying Latin in the University

former instructor
of Columbia, in preparation for his neav po-
Prof. J. H. Davis
‘is continuing his work in biology at the Uni-
| versity of Illinois. Prof. A. V. Goldiere is
| further preparing himself in Spanish and
| French at Yale. Capt. George H. Weems
| completed his four years ot service at David-
son as Professor of Military Science and
Fort

| sition as Latin professor.

| Tactics, and has been transferred to
| Leavenworth, Kansas. ne
Captain Weems has been replaced by Lieut.
J. A. Otto, who has just completed a course
of instruction at Fort Benning, Georgia. The
| 10 professors added to the faculty are as fol-
(Continued on page 5)

Daugherty Appoints

|
|
|
|
| Secs

Capt. R. B. Daugherty recently appointed
the R. O. T. C. Battalion officers and non-
commissioned officers. The new officers are
all prominent men on the campus and are
active in many campus activities.
were 29 commissioned officers appointed, di-
One cadet major, seven
cadet captains, eleven cadet first lieutenants,
The battalion is

vided as follows:
}and ten second lieutenants.
Headquarters and Staff, the Band, Company

D. There were appointed two cadet color
sergeants, five cadet first sergeants, and
thirty-seven cadet sergeants.

The new officers took over their respective
companies and duties Wednesday at the
morning drill period when the battalion was
organized for the coming year. The follow-
jing are the officers and non-commissioned
' officers of the R. O. T. C. Battalion, David-
| son College, for the year 1927-1928:

Headquarters and Staff—Arbuckle, H. B.,
Jr., cadet major; McNeely, J. C., cadet cap-
tain and adjutant; Akers, J. M., cadet captain

|colpr sergeant! Dumas, W. L., cadet color
| sergeant.
Band—Garrison, P. J., cadet

(Continued on page 8)

captain ;

SAMPLE COPY

This is the first issue of the 1927-28 Davidsonian, and if you wish
to keep up with things on the campus, as you did last year, tear out.
and mail this and your address with 25c. to P. J. Garrison, Davidson,

N. C.

Name

Address

This criticism, how-
According to |

This ratio was made possible by.

Battalion Officers

There |

divided into six departments, the Battalion |

A, Company B, Company C, and Company |

‘Six Hundred end Forty
Students Registered for

Eight Veterans Return Capable Teachers Ninety-Second Session

Over Four Hundred Applicants
Refused - Enrollment

PROSPECTS BRIGHT

Immediate Resumption of the Con-
struction of Chambers is Prom-
ised for Near Futue

For the ninety-second time in history Da-
vidson College opened her dodrs to students
from all over the South last Thtrsday morn-
ing, September 8th, when Dr. W. J. Martin,
president of the college, extended a welcome
to the upperclassmen on their return for an-
other year of work and to the new men who
are just beginning their college careers.

With some 640 odd students registered for
the present time, prospects look bright for
the most successful year in the history of the
college. The fact that twice as many appli-
cants for enrollment were refused as were
accepted speaks for a select groun of first-
year men.

With several additions to the faculty and
indications pointing toward the immediate re-
sumption of the construction of Chambers
building, the present session gives indications

)of a bright year.

The largest Senior class ever enrolled in
this institution is the class of 1928, there be-
ing 127 who matriculated. This class’ is larger
| by 30 members than any precious class. This
| is due to the fact that 260 men composed the

original class that entered Davidson in the
fall of 1924.

One great factor in assisting the freshmen
in adapting themselves to their new sur-
roundings was the pre-opening program dur-
‘ing orientation week in which officials of the

college, ably assisted by J. M. Appleby, gen-
| (Continued on page 2)

Three.Senfors Eigaad

to Publication Bureau

Martin, Lingle, and Hancock Will
Compose Board

In the final election last Monday for the
members of the Publication Board, Boyce
Martin, W. L. Lingle and D.’ W. Hancock
were elected to serve on the board during this
year. The men nominated for the board were
J. G. Wharton, Caldwell Withers, W. L.
Lingle, Boyce Martin and D. W. Hancock.
‘A first ballot was run in which Lingle and
Mortin gained the majority of votes. A sec-
ond ballot was necessary to decide between
Hancock and Withers, and it ‘resulted in the

Then he gave as the text of his mes- | and personal adjutant; Brown, S. Y., cadet. election of Hancock.

The Publication Board is composed of
three men, elected from the Senior class. The
three major publications at Davidson, The
Davidsonian, the Chameleon, and the Quips
and Cranks, nominate a number of men for

| this position and three from this group are
elected by the student body. Two members
of the faculty meet with the board of ad-
| visors. Last year Mr. F. L, Jackson and
| Prof. F. K. Fleagle were the faculty ad-
| visors, and they will probably contiriue to fill -
this position during this year.
| These’ men go into office immediately as
| the board which served last ‘year, being
| composed of Seniors, ceased to be official at
ithe end of the year. The members of last
year’s board were Harllee Bratith, H. M.
| Austip, and L. D. Wharton,
j (Continued on page 3)
