—- —

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 28, 1927

SONIAN:

No. 27

Iled Thursday by

inkney, Retiring Pres.

New Councilmen Will Take Charge
of Student Affairs

FOURTEEN INSTALLED

H. M. Arrowood Newly Elected
President, Asks Co-operation
of Entire Student Body

Thursday morning, April 21st, the newly
elected Student Council of Davidson College
was formally installed and took entire charge
of all student affairs. The installation ex-
ercises were conducted by the retiring and
incoming student body presidents, and fol-
lowed the regular college chapel exercises.

Immediately at the close of chapel, Jeon
Pinkney, retiring president, announced that
the new’council was to be installed at that
time and requested the members to take their
places on the platform. Pinkney adminis-
tered the oath of office to the incoming stu-
dent councilmen and delivered to them a brief
charge. He then spoke to the student body,
thanking them on behalf of the outgoing
council for support and co-operation given
during the past year and urging them to
continue to support the council during the
year to come.

H. M, newly-elected student
body president, then took charge of the cere-
monies. He spoké briefly to the student body
for himself and the new council, thanking |
them for: the; confidence..shown in splacing |.
them in positions of such honor and respon-
sibility, and to the retiring council, congratu-
lating them on the completion of a successful
year as the governing body of the Davidson
student body.

The members thus installed are: Rising
Seniors: H. M.. Arrowood, B. F. Martin.
W. O. --esbit, W. R. Grey, Jr., J. L. Robin-
son, Caldwell Withers, and P. J. Garrison.
Risiing Juniors: M. M. King, W. M. Powell,
F, A. Ratchford, and John Melton: Rising
Sophomores: Allan Frew, G. P. Hender- |
son, and C. R. Pritchett.

The members of the retiring student coun-
cil were: Seniors: J. F. Pinkney, J. H. Mc-

(Continued on page 2)

New Business Staff of
Davidsonian Announced

Arrowood,

Martin Crawford Elected Business
Manager of Paper

Martin Crawford, the newly elected busi-
*ness manager of the 1927-28 Davidsonian,
has recently announced his staff, which will
work with him in the business department of
the school paper during the coming year.
Crawford was recently elected to the busi-
ness managership over Julian Lake and Ed
Douglas. He was elected by the Publications |
Board, which is composed of five members.

Crawford is a prominent and popular lead-
er on the campus. He is a member of Sigma
Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. . He has
been connected with The Davidsonian work
since early in his Freshman year, and last
year he served as one of the assistant busi-
ness managers on the staff. His faithful
work in this capacity placed him in a posi-
tion for election to the position which he
now holds.

According to Crawford, the assistant busi-
ness managers for next year will be R. S.
Abernathy, Jr., S. J. Allison, and _ Bill
Powell. All of these men have made a very |
‘creditable showing in the work during the |
past year. Abernathy, besides his position |
with The Davidsonian, is a member of Beta |
Theta Pi social fraternity, Sophomore track
manager, member of the Glee Club, and has
served as secretary of the Florida Club.
Allison is a member of the Pyramid Club, a
local social fraternity. Bill Powell is a
member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fra-

(Continued on page 2)

ONLY SEVEN MORE GAMES

There are seven more baseball

games to be played by the Varsity

this season. Three of these will be

played here at Davidson and the re-

maining games will be away from the

home field. The remaining schedule
is as follews:
April 27—Elon, at Elon.
April 28—N. C. State, at Raleigh.
April 29—U. of N. C,, at Chapel
Hill.
May 2—V. P,_I., at Davidson.
May 4+—N. C. State, at Salisbury.
May 5-—N. C. State, at Davidson.
May 7—Furman, at Davidson.

‘revolution of

Junior Speaking is

Won by McNight

Using as his subject, “In Defense of
Youth,” John

|

|
|

Gamecocks, Deacons

Downed in Meets With
Wildcat Track Artists

John Curry Sets New Mark in
’ Century Clash

Daniels Stars

South Carolina and Wake Forest
Conquered by Overwhelming
Scores—Dashes Interesting

The Davidson track team has covered: it
self with glory in recent weeks, winning two
meets on successive Saturdays by safe mar-
gins and one of them by a top-heavy score.
South Carolina was met and defeated in Co

lumbia on April 16, and Wake Forest: was |

trimmed at

took eight first places, but the Wildeats took
more than one place in a number of events,

McKnight, of Shelby, was |and enough first: places to win the meet.

winner in the Junior Oratorical Contest held | John Currie showed his usual form to win

in Shearer Hall at 8:00 p. m., April 14.
two. other the
Clisby Dubose, who had as his subject “The
Dragon Turns,” and Camper O'Neal, whose
subject was “Caterpillar Communism.”
McKnight in his speech defended the mis
takes and the frivolous acts of the youth of
today. He admitted the wisdm and foresight
of age, but showed that the unwise acts of
He
brought out clearly that youth was a stage
through. which.all, must pass, and that youth,
in a sense, must have its fling. The thought-
less and impulsive acts of youth, he said, are
the means through which one learns, and
becomes capable of judging things for him-

speakers of evening

youth were the most enjoyable ones.

self.

In “The Dragon Turns” Dubose pictured
the conditions of the people of China today.
Having lived there for a time himself, he
was able to give first-hand information on
the subject. He showed how the North and
the South were divided against each other,

and drew a comparison between this internal |

China and the Civil War in

America. Dubose brought out China’s need
of America—not forceful intervention, but a

(Continued on page 2)

The} the 100 and 220-yard dashes, and) Captain
were | Goodykoontz won the 440. Creech threw the

javelin 146 feet 3 inches, to win his initial

first place of the season, The final score
was 72-53,

The outstanding event of the Wake Forest
meet was John Currie’s stellar performance
Not only did he

win first? place, but he lowered the college

in the hundred-yard dash.

Richardson Field on April 23. !
In the South Carolina meet the Gamecocks ,

Golden Quill Won
by Seven Writers

Last Friday evening, April 22, the Golden
Quill selected seven new members. The men
chosen A. N. Brown, W. K. Pritchett,
ease R LAK Greed,

lL. C. Wadsworth, and R. C, Grady.

are:

Moriarity, Cy | Jones,

The Golden Quill is one of

honors at Davidson for journalistic men.

It stands not only as a high honor, but as
a reward for achievement and whole-hearted
The members are usually chosen
from the editorial staff of The Davidsontan.
The men chosen are all on The Davidsonian

endeavor,

|
staff and are prominent in journalistic work
at Davidson.

T. T. Jones is the retiring president of the

) Reporters’ Club, associate editor of The Da-
vidsonian, and a-contributor to The Chame-
leon, He is prominent in English work and

is well known by the students and popular

with the faculty. He is a member of Pi
Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

A. N. Brown, managing editor of The
Dividsonian, retiring vice-president of the

Reporters’ Club, is prominent: in’ scholastic
work and is popular with the students.

W. K. Pritchett is a member of thee Re-

record by three-tenths of a second, establish- | porters’ Club and managing editor of The

ing a new low mark of 9 7-10 seconds. See-

Davidsonian. We is well known because of

ond only to Currie’s record were, those of | his scholastic achievements and participation

Daniels, Wake Forest star, who was high
point man with 18 points to his credit, and

of Spurlock, Lenoir-Rhyne one-man team,

lin campus activities. He is also a candidate
for assistant eheer leader for next year.

J. B. Moriarity, managing editor of The

who, entered unofficially, bettered first place | Davidsonian, member of the Reporters’ Club,

| . . °
in three events. “Captain Goodykoontz was | and Junior assistant manager of basketball,

!
second high point scorer with TP) points to

his credit,

The score of this meet was 88 to 38. Da
vidson won 11 first places to Wake Forest's
three, winning many of the second places as
well. ;

Summary of the South Carolina meet :

100 yard dash—Currie (1D); Rubenstein
(C); Kell (D). Time: 102-10.
Mile run—O'Neal (DY); Boyee (C);

(Continued on page 6)

has achieved popularity among the students,
and good records in his courses of study.
He is also a member of Bet Theta Pi social
fraternity.

C. R. Lake is athletic editor of The Da-
vidsonian and the retiring secretary of the
Reporters’ Club. Tle is noted because of his
remarkable knowledge of athletics from the
his progress in’ his

spectators viewpoint,

studies, and his popularity with both students

(Continued on page 6)

Honorary Fraternity Council Sponsors Second
General Bid-Day as Seven Fraternities Elect

Nineteen Elections
to Reporters Club

On last Monday night, April 25th, the
Reporters’ Club met to choose the new mem-
bers for the year.
16 Freshmen were chosen, making a total of
19 new men selected for membership. ~The
M. T. Gilmour, R. W.
Kirkpatrick, and A, F. Lapsley. The Fresh-
men are: R. F. Jarratt, R. W. McDermid,
C. M. Pratt, V. A. Milton, A. T. Edelman,
M. K. Henderson, D. P. Anderson, FE. S.
Heifner, F. W. Johnston, D. K. Miller, A.
N. Haverstadt, Z. V. Long, D. T. Stokes,
W. A. Mitchell, W. R. Treverton, and W.
H. Best.

Membership Reporters’ Club
limited to five per cent of the student body.
The large Freshman class this year accounts
for the rather large number of Freshmen
taken into the club. Practically all of these
men have been connected with The Davidson-
ian work all the year, and the Sophomores
worked with the publication last year as well.
These men have put forth their best efforts
and used their time and talent unstintedly
to uphold the slogan of the school paper:
“To make The Davidsonian the best college
publication in the state,” and have worked

(Continued on page 3)

Three Sophomores and

Sophomores are:

in the is

On Tuesday seven of the honorary fra
ternities extended their spring bids to mem-
bers of the student body. Forty-nine bids
were given to members of the three upper
classes; seven Seniors, 26 Juniors, and 16
Sophomores. The bids for Omicron Delta
Kappa and Gamma Sigma Epsilon have pre-
viously been announced.

Sigma Upsilon Literary Fraternity elected
four members of the Junior class and one of
the Seniors who have shown interest or un-
usual talents in the literary arts. Sigma
Upsilon is one of the oldest and largest na-
tional fraternities in the honorary council.
Delta Pi Kappa, local journalistic organiza-
tion, extended invitations to one Senior and
four Sophomores who have rendered note-
worthy service for The Davidsonian.

Seven Juniors were elected to» Scabbard
and Blade, leading naticnal military fratern-
ity. These men have demonstrated conspic-
uous ability in the R. O. T. C. unit. The
International Relations Club extended bids
to nine who have demonstrated their prowess
and interest in world problems by winning
over several opponents in an essay contest.

Alpha Phi Epsilon, national forensic fra-
ternity, chose ten members, the largest num-
ber chosen by any fraternity. Omega Phi
Alpha chose seven men who have show in-

(Continued on page 5)

New Staff of 1928

Chameleon Chosen

J. G. Wharton, editor-in-chief of the 1927-
28 Chameleon, has recently announced his
staff.

announced by C. C. Trabue, however, it is

The business staff has not yet been

expected to be made public at an early date.
The literary staff is as follows: Boyce

Martin, editor of the department of poetry;

partment; R. A. Boggess, editor of the
essay department ; and Caldwell Withers,
editor of the review department.
ciate editors are: Malcolm Murchison, Ber-
nard McClaugherty, and Dick Flinn.

Wharton, the editor-in-chief of the maga-
zine, has done some very good work along
literary lines, and was the reviewer for this
year. His election to the editor-in-chief of
The Chameleon, the only. strictly literary
publication at Davidson, did not come as such
a surprise on‘account of the amount of his
work published heretofore.

Boyce Martin, the new editor of the poetry
department, has been the only other man in
his class except Wharton to have any amount
of his werk published in the Chameleon.
He is the new editor-in-chief of The. David-

The asso-

(Continued on, page 8)

the highest |

Browne McQueen, editor of the fiction de- |

Dr. Henry Lewis Smith Speaks at 0.D.K.

Initiation Ceremonies on Tuesday Night

Private Initiation Held Preceding
Public. Address

TWENTY INITIATED

Robert E. Lee is Portrayed as Ideal
Omicron Delta Kappa Man

} The Davidson Delta Cirele, Omicron Delta
| Kappa, held its public initiation ceremonies
}in Shearer Hall on Tuesday night, April 26,
lthe feature of the evening being an address
Dr.
Washington and Lee University.

by Henry Louis Smith, president of
The even-
ling’s program was begun by a private initia-
| tion of the 11 alumni and nine students re-
| cently elected to membership, followed hy
the address of Dr. Smith, and concluded by

ja banquet at the Maxwell Chambers Hotel.

Students initiated were those selected at
the recent “tap-day” exercises. They are:
B, F. Martin, HH. M. Arrowood, C, F. Me-
Crae, W. Ov Nesbit, F. C. Withers, W..L.

Lingle, W. R. Wi

R. Sims R. 1. Lincoln, and J.

S. Broyles, G.

J]. Bernhardt.

Grey, Jr.,

All these men are leaders of the student body
in their respective lines, andvare taken from
both the present and rising Senior classes.

Many alumni were present for the occa-
sion, Graduates of Davidson who / were
selected for membership and who were pres-
ent are: TL, Ee. Matthews, Charlotte, N.C.;
J. J. Barnhardt, Concord, N. C.; Hinton
James, Laurinburg, N. ©.; Dr. W. M. Dunn,
Atlanta, Ga.;) Dr. Reid) Morrison, Moores-
ville, N. C.; Edgar Tufts, Banner Elk, N.
C.; J. O. Cobb, Durham, N. C.; T. D. Du-
puy, Greensboro, N. C.; Prot.
Smith, Columbia, S.C.

Dr. Smith chose as his subject, “R. EF.
Lee, the Ideal O, D. K. Man.” He declared
that “The Omicron Delta Kappa ideal is the

all-round

and Reed

expert, the high-grade specialist
who is also broad-visioned and broad-mind-
ed.”
also the practical American who is educated
but
other things well, who can not only argue but

Enlarging this theme, he said, “He is

and trained, who does one thing best
organize and perform, who can think and

(Continued on page 6)

Captain Daugherty to

Chosen to Succeed Captain Weems
by War Department

D.
cially announced by
will be the P. M.S.
ing the place of Capt. G.

Capt. R. Daugherty, it has been offi-
the War Department,
and T. next year, tak-

H.

has been ordered to take command of

Weems, who
the
General Stati School at Fort Leavenworth,
Kansas.

Captain Daugherty was born in New Mex-
ico, and is a graduate of the New Mexico
Military Institute and the Infantry School

|
|

jat Fort Benning, Georgia, where he stood
high in his class. During the World War
he saw sevice in Germany. In the three
years*he has been here most of his work has

been in connection with the instruction of
| the Freshman class.

Captain Weems came to Davidson in the
fall of 1923, from Fort Benning, Georgia.
During his term of service at Davidson, the
R. O. T. C. unit has received the Distin-
guished Service rating, the first time that it
Not only
through military lines has Captain Weems
rendered the college, but through athletic
lines also. -He has: acted as wrestling coach
of the Davidson team.

Captain Weems is a well recognized au-
thority on military matters. He reviewed the
R. O, T. C. manual now in official use at
all colleges having a unit of the R. O. T. C.
He also wrote the section on machine gun-

nery to be found in the manual. Next year

(Continued on page 8)

has been awarded to the college.

