THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 17, 1927

Union Library Adds
to its Collections

During the last two months, the college
library has secured a number of new
books which will be placed at the disposal
of the students in the near future. These
books cover a ‘wide range of subject mat-
ter and will be valuable additions to the
college library. °

Most of these works‘are novels which
have been recently written by widely-
read authors. “The Mayflower,” by
Blasco Ibanez, is a powerful story of Val-
encian fisher-folk and is a vivid portrayal
of human emotions, Among the new
books is also found “Mexico in Revolu-
tion,” written by the same author, a
story of the fall and death of Carranza.

A volume of particular interest to stu-
dents, especially those wroking with stu-
dent publications, is Dix Harwood’s “Get-
ting and Writing News.” What news
consists of and the proper form in which
to present it, forms thé topic of this book.

Charles A. Beard’s new book, “The
Rise of American. Civilization,” combirfes
with the facts of American’ history the
progress ‘of the people intellectually and
spiritually. It is one of the latest things
out on this subject and is already ac-
cepted as an authority on our country’s
early life.

“Dependent. America,’ by “William C.
Redfield, is a  disefission of economic
America and will fill a real need in the
college library.

Two new novels, “The Road to Xana-
du,” by John Lovingston\ Laewes, and
“Woman Triumphant,” by Blasco Ibanez,

will be ready for distribution immedi-
ately.

For the benefit of the students interest-
ed in the drama, “Contemporary Plays,”
selected and edited by Thomas H. Dickin-
son and Jack R. Crawford, has been se-
cured, This volume includes works from
several of the greatest contemporary
playwriters, and will prove highly enter-
taining. .

For the serious mind, “The Editorials
of Henry Wallerson,” edited by Anthony
Krock, will afford an. evening of pleas-
ant occupation.

All of these books are here and will be
put in circulation immediately. Each of
them has-been carefully seleet€d and it
is believed that they will meet with the
approval of the student body.

He was so fast he could run out the
front door, run around and in the Aack
shake hands with himself going ob

—Clippe 1.

RUINED

f :
A SPRINKLER HEAD will discharge over 1,000 gallons of water jn

WILDCATS PROVE THREAT

"

(Continued from page one)
fully hurled pass at the hands of the Caro-
linians.

The game opened with an exchange of
punts that put the ball in the possession of
Carolina on their own 40-yard marker, and
from here they started a great first quarter
drive that was not stopped until the Tar
Heels were perched on top of a 14-0 score.
From the 40-yard line a long pass was com-
pleted from Gresham to Young, who received
it and was driven out of bounds only five
yards from the Davidson goal line. Three
drives against the line put the ball one yard
from the goal, and Foard stretched out on
the fourth down,. putting it barely over.
Gresham’s kick from placement was good
for the extra point.

After the kick-off Carolina made substan-
tial gains and punted to Davidson. After
failing to gain, the ball was returned to Caro-
lina on her 43-yard line. Line plays gained
first down, and another pass from Gresham
to Young put the ball on the six-yard marker
of the Wildcats. Again the Tar Heels drove
the ball over, and again the extra point was
good. Thus ended the scoring for the first
quarter,

In the second stanza the Davidson team
came back with sensational gains that put a
drop of cold sweat upon the brows of the
Tar Heel supporters. Davidson gained on
exchange of punts, and Dick Grey attempted
to pass, but was rushed too much; conse-
quently he assumed other tactics. He dodged,
side-stepped and wiggled his way over 20
yards of territory. After this gain, Harri-
son and Nesbit combined their resources for
a first down, and a pass to Arrowood fol-
lowed by one to Nesbit put the ball nine yards
THREE — DAVIDSONIAN —

from the goal of Carolina. Nesbit and Grey
went over the line for eight yards, and failed
to take it over in two more plays.

Carolina kicked back to Davidson, who
took the ball on the Tar Heels’ 34-yard line.
Arrowood was interfered with when he was
after a pass, and the pass with the penalty
put the ball eight yards from the goal. Nes-
bit and Harrison put the ball on the one-yard
marker, and again two plays failed to put the
ball over. This was the end of the Davidson
threats.

Carolina scored another touchdown. when
Sapp dropped a pass, and the elusive “ball
was booted and rolled around until the same
Sapp picked it up, going 20 yards. Taking
the ball on Davidson’s 22-yard line, it was
pushed across by line plays. After a pass was
completed to Harrison for 35 yards, David-
son tried others, Swartz intercepting one of
them. A pass from Jackson to Furchess was

good, and another to Jackson, who was well
out in front of the defence, resulted in the

30 minutes, or about 35 gallons in @0 seconds.
No merchant or manufacturer can afford to be without our SPRINKLER

LEAKAGE POLICY.

The cost is a trifle compared with the protection.

f

INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT

McALISTER CARSON ('13) Mgr.

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

M. B. SPEIR, JR. ('26)

Esther Ralston

MONDAY AND TUESDAY

Janet Gaynor in “Seventh Heaven,” the French version

of “The Big Parade.”
WEDNESDAY

THURSDAY
Virginia Valli in “Ladies Must Dress.”
FRIDAY _
: Julia Faye in “Turkish Delight.”
_. SATURDAY _
“Wolf Fangs,” a good dog picture.

in “Spotlight.” >

74425) See =
| AY Colame. 4

The Y feels very much gratified over
the response and interest shown during
the.meetings just passed. The Y also be-
lieves that a great work has been done
through these services and hopes that the
Y may always be on the increase in hold-
ing an important place in the life of Da-
vidson men. Such is its earnest hope and
aim in the work of the Master.

See Y seeds

Have you ever considered the helpful-
ness of daily communion with your
Maker? There is a morning watch on
your hall, where you will be most wel-
come and where you will enter a few
minutes of prayer, that will help start
the day in the right way. Take advan-
tage of this opportunity and line up with
one of these groups. You'll always be
glad that you have done so, if you only
learn the happiness that follows these
few moments of prayer and meditation.

j pa ae

If any fellows feel, after the services
just finished, that they would like to get
in Y work of some sort, Jim Appleby
will be glad to try to place them in some-
thing, if they will only drop by to see
him. f,

HEALS | anaes
The speaker at Y this week will be
Bishop Penick, Bishop of the Charlotte
diocese. He will be remembered as the
man who delivered the baccalaureate ser-
mon to the.class of ’26, and is well known
as a most able speaker and preacher. He
is outstanding in his line of life work and
will be worth hearing. Plan right now to
hear him.

pi eae
In view of the fact that Davidson is no
longer supporting Warren Cox, no men-
tion has been made so far of a mission-
ary campaign; but one’will be started
later in the year, Details given soon.

DR. J| M. VANDER MEULEN

(Continued from page 1)

rot. It is better to go into eternity a non-
believer than a hypocrite, Dr. Vander
Meulen stated. God might have reserved
for sinners a reserve of mercy, but not
for hypocrites.

There are others who have besetting
sins which continually defeat their good
intentions. He offered a few words of
encouragement and. comfor: to these,
saying that the battle stained soldiers of
Christ would receive their full reward
when the reckoning comes.

Monday night, Dr. Vander Meulen
spoke to a large crowd on the subject of
losing a talent. He limited his talk to
the talent of religion... Dr. Vander Meulen
eestablished-the fact that every man. is

a | religious, and that man has always been

graduatiy feeling his way toward kin-
ship with the divine. He then pointed
out that a religious faculty is a high fac-
ulty; all really great men of the world
have been distinctly religious.

His listeners were warned, however,
that this faculty. could be lost. Just as
unused arms, legs, and wings of the low-
er animals disappear with disuse, so this
religious talent, if unused, shrivels up and

final touchdown. A drop-kick was good for
the extra point.

Farris was the outstanding star of the
Carolina line, while Young was the leader of
the backfield, being ably supplemented in his
work by Foard. For Davidson, Jim Grey
played a good game in the line; Harrison,
Grey and Nisbet playing sensational football
at times.

The line-up and summory follow:

Carolina

Position Davidson
| Sapp EAD pares Wearn
Morehead (C) ---- LT -._- T. McConnell
Maris grees oe Soe oh es Melton
Schwartz --.--_. Center _..__ R. McConnell
Shuler J...--2.22c RG eee a Laws
Howard --..-----. RD ees ae J. Grey
Presson RE Arrowood
Whisnant ~----... OR cgstaus. oe So Black
Gresham LH D. Grey
Young RH Harrison
Foard FB Nesbit

Score by quarters: Pe

Carolina 22-2 eS 14 0 0 13—27
Davidson -..--..--..-.._- 00 0,00

Substitutions—Carolina: McDaniel, Las-
siter, Spalding, Ward, Furchess, Donahoe,
Eskew, Holt, Warren, Lipscomb, Jackson.
Davidson ;-Wilson,--Hunt,“McGeachy, Kell,
Baker, Matthews, Parrish, Hapton and De-
Armon.

Officials: Brice (Illinois), referee;
Cheeves (Georgia), umpire; Major (Au-

burn), headlinesman; Bhewer (Maryland),

dies. Many men have found on their
death beds that thev haven't the faculty,
of believing the great religious truths. If
we lose this great religious impulse, we
lose the best part of ourselves.

Tuesday morning Dr. Vander Meulen
discussed the duties of Christian disciples,
self-denial, cross-bearing, and following.
Self-denial involves one of the great es-
sentials of a happy life regardless of the
religious convictions of the individual.
The man who can control his desires and
vanities can face the facts of life with a
steadier mind. Cross-bearing is every
man’s duty to assume his share of social-
service. Social-service was the keynote
of Christ’s ministry on earth, and his last
words to his disciples concerned this.
Cross-bearing does not necessarily in-
clude suffering and pain, as many believe,
but rather comprises daily continuous
service on behalf of our fellow men.

Dr. Vander Meulen then said it was
hard for many people to follow. There
are many people who never do anything
in the capacity of a follower, they are
helpless if they are not leaders. Every
Christian will find his Christian life
easier if he will make himself become a
follower of the great Leader.

Speaking on the fine art of sympathy

Tuesday night, Dr. Vander Meulen em-
phasized the importance of cultivating a
teal understanding of our fellow beings.
We need to sympathize with a person in
sorrow, in joy and happiness, in triumph,
and in each of his different emotions. We
should learn to reach an understanding
with our companions on their own intel-
lectual planes. Lasfly, in order to be Chris-
tian workers, we must sympathize with
a man’s moral problems, his sins and
fights to overcome them, and the diffi-
culties he very often finds himself in.
Sympathy can be developed first by
unselfishness, and then by placing our-
selves in the place of others. Selfishness
blinds us and keeps us from getting an-
other’s viewpoint. Very often assuming
the other viewpoint will make our own
more clear to us, and show us how to
deal with that viewpoint.
Dr. Vander Meulen’s ‘messages have
had the strength of a long experience and
strong character behind them, and will
have a lasting influence on the students
at Davidson,

“Oh, I thought you were in an acci-
dent.”

A friend in need is a friend to avoid.

Wildkittens Engage
‘With P. C. Freshmen
Davidson Fresh Meet Blue Sox in
Final Game

Tomorrow the Wildkittens will jour-
ney to Clinton, S. C., for the purpose of
taking the socks off the Junior Blue-
Stockings of Presbyterian College.

If they were ever over-confident, the
Wildkittens lost that feeling when they
went down in defeat before the Duke
rats. On the other hand, a very en-
couraging hope for Davidson rooters is
that McMillans’ Midget Gang may be
over-confident because of their 6-0 win
over the Furman fresh.

Although the line and backfield of P. C.
shows up well, and has been doing splen-
did this season, the Davidson freshman
line and backfield shows up equally well
if not better. With Gpodykoontz, Es-
tridge, David and Pope in the backfield
and Brock, Foil and Mason in the line,
the team is expected to show up well in
the game to the extent of walking off
with the big end of the score.

For the P. C. Fresh, Young, Bennett,
and Lynn form a fast working combina-
tion.

The Davidson eleven will leave. for
Clinton some time during Thursday aft-

ernoon. The probable line-up is as fol-
lows:

Davidson Position BaG,
Procter 222222:-25 JE) DS pe ee aes Bennett
PAR Ghesso ss ess us ) Ly pecan eeaeersr Blakely
BRock#uec secon EGeessaose= McQueen
MASON scccucccesen Gee es Ketchin
1 axs) | ES See pe peter RG Eee es cose Fortson
Covington -..----- Jal Recayapete apes pupa Fevene
Johnston ~----.---- 15.9 Deere etc Lynn
McGallisee ts oh 2n3 QBee seer Young
Goodykoontz ----- Bese eeccee Dunlap
DA Vid ee ee | 9 OS yapeeeply eae teaean Green
Braléy: 2222230 PBessesheces Greene

You knew he was a polished gentle:
man, he was such a rounder.—Tawney
Kat.

Politician’s Note—You can’t fool all of
the people all of the time. Concentration
on a majority will attain the desired end.
—Carnegie Puppet.

“You're a man after my own heart,”
said the watermelon as the dusky darky
thumped it affectionately—Scream.

January 15, 1928.

best drawing.

76 other prizes.

anoler fs

“Montross.

O.NE
Ess & xX
 SPEEDABOUT

FOR THE BEST
DRAWING

\4

in black and white, by any undergraduate
artist, submitted to College Humor before

$250 GRUEN PRECISION WATCH,
the latest Paladin model, for second

$1,000 IN EUGENE DIETZGEN
DRAWING INSTRUMENTS,
drawing sets, tables and other artists’
supplies, the finest manufactured, and

COMPLETE DETAILS of this nation-
wide search for new artists in the Decem-
ber College Humor on sale November 2nd.

A brilliant article on Princeton,

by F. Scott

appears in this number; and
ture is a complete novelette,
The Return of Andy Protheroe, by Lois

Address letters and entries to \

RT GO ST |
058 Nos Legal Sear PcnCees

SEE THE NEW ESSEX AT
