4.

v

' THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 1, 1927

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
; . Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

)ED BY CLASS OF '15
Bas lear Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

he.Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
Entered at the.Pos' Se Stesaa cles

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.90 the Collegiate Year

All_ Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
i ter by 7:00 p, m. Monday. Articles re-
: rave Hee ST SACALGR peuies will not be published.

‘BOYCE MARTIN  ..........-.-.-.---------.--- Editor-in-Chief
M. P. CRAWFORD rpBusiness Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

A. N. BROWN ..-.. -Managing Editor
W._K. PRITCHETT -Managing Editor
J. B. MORIARITY Managing Editor
Go RIGLDATO daetelcalcsuscsosssccscs Athletic Editor
R.A Editor
W. L. iy Editor
F.C, ERS Associate Editor
T. T. JONES .-.... A iate Editor
L. GC. WADSWORTH ccscscscccccscccs conccuase Alumni Editor
Re GAG RADY abs te ieee cee cbs se eeeaes. Exchange Editor
BUSINESS STAFF -
R. S. ABERNETHY....-.-.-.- Assistant Business Manager
S. J. ALLISON ----Assistant Business Manager
W. M. WE Assistant Business Manager
P. J. GARRISON Subscription Manager
B. Ww. DICKSON. Circulation Manager
S. W. MORR wie Solicitor
W. _B._ McGUIRE. Solicitor
Bie MOCAGsisssccccscccsccocnus Solicitor
Reporters’ Club

(eH BAILEY ccs sc scccscceuesaeieubs eo susescocesscs President
Yn ELY .-Vice- President
f R. GRAHAM... Secretary-Treasurer

. P, ANDERSON R. W. McDE
W._H. BEST W. B. BevueeN
E. T. EDELMAN F. D. MILLE
E. S. FNER V. A. MILTON
M. K. HENDERSON C. M. PRA’
R. F. JARRATT D. T. STOKES
F. W. JOHNSTON My 7 ENA I
Zz. V. ~R 7
J. P. McBRYDE B. A. WILSON

OUR ATHLETIC CYCLE

The last curtain has fallen on the gridiron
warriors of Davidson for the 1927 season.
Several of the best players Davidson has
seen in a number of years have sung their
swan songs i nthe final act of this drama.
Though some hit a few false notes and were
a trifle flat at times, it was appreciated by
all none theless. In marking the end of the
careers of these members of the team, the
dark curtain also marked the end of a rather
disastrous season for Davidson,—disastrous
in that Davidson has finished last in the only
conference of which she is a member, that
of the colleges of North Carolina. From the
peak of the championship to the dismal
abyss of the cellar in one year!

Numerous alumni and others less directly
connected with the college will arise on their
hind legs and bleat “Why? Why has David-
son fallen to such a depth? It is no disgrace
to be defeated but why were they defeated
so crushingly? Why?” To these queries
there will be as many answers as there are
persons who reply. No doubt there will be
many alibis given, some, however, will tell
the truth. There will be many excuses
given, but they will all revert to two main
points. The lack of enough trained athletes
to mould a well rounded team and the fact
that their opponents were for the most part
representing schgols larger than Davidson.

If present conditins prevail, Dayidson will
put out_a winning team once every four, pas-
sibly every five years. Five years ago coaches

’ Monk and Tex came to Davidson and had

nothing but raw, very raw material, to work
with. The first season failed to show much
evidence of their training. The second sea-
son, things picked up a bit more, as did the
third. Finally in the fourth year, the men
who had been under the tutelage of Monk
and Tex since they had entered school won
the state championship and then were grad-
uated. This year’the coaches had to start
back where they did at first. Four or pos-
sibly three years from now we should have
a championship team again if luck is with
us. And so it will continue, our athletic
cycle, of winning teams every four years.
That is if the present indifference to high
school athletes continues to prevail among
the students and alumni of Davidson.

There are two alternatives out of this sit-
uation. One is to have as the opponents of
Davidson only those colleges whose student
body enrollment is the same as that of Da-
vidson or approximately the same. The

other is to have some definite influence from
some efficient organization come to bear on
high school athletes to’ persuade them to
come to Davidson.

The first solution is tather repugnant to
«the minds of.some—that Davidson must ad-

cig

mit the superiority of some schools that it
as defeated in the past few years, But yet

lear. that we are due to defeat them on-

ze f

i
amas ess

he cycle decrees that it is their.

time to be defeated. This sounds’ silly to
some people but we offer as proof the re-

| sult’of the past four seasons.

The second solution is the logical one to
choose if enough are truly interested in see-
ing Davidson advance in the realm of ath-
tettcs. “Do not“misunderstand and believe
that this article is advocating the payment of
athletes for services rendered to the college
on the athletic field. Every real Davidson
man is sincerely opposed to this custom. But
there are many who believe that Davidson
is attractive enough without any pecuniary
influence brought. to bear upon the pros-
pective student. But if the alumni and stu-
dent body work together a number of men
could be brought here if they know the
school well, know its students, the kind of
men it graduates ‘and-the situation in gen-
eral.

In a number of our contemporary institu-

tions there are clubs formed of men’ who
have attended some prep school or high
school together. These men have the ath-
letes and friends from their old school down
to their present institution of learning, en-
tertain them, and show them why they have
selected this particular school to continue
their work in higher education. In this way
influential men in the high schools and prep
schools become interested in this particular
school, influence is brought to bear upon

' them, they know that they will have friends

at this particular institution and they decide
to attend. There is nothing wrong at all in
this system and it aids the, college materially
in maintaining its standard in scholarship
as well as athletics. It is merely a matter as
to whether or not the undergraduates are
enough interested in their Alma Mater to at-
tempt to build up the institution and render
it aid for futuretyears by influencing their
friends to comé there also.

It has come to the point now as to wheth-
er Davidson men will be willing to sacrifice
something for their school, go out of their
way to get good men to come Jhere, or
whether they are willing for our athletic
cycle of success to recur every five years.
With the growth of other schools it is high-
ly probable that this cycle will be widened
with future years and that the successes of
Davidson will become less and less frequent.
If the men are willing, Davidson will have
athletes. If they are indifferent, Davidson
will Sink lower than she has already plunged.

There is much work that could be done
around this vicinity right now. The foot-
ball team of Charlotte High has been un-
usually successful this year,’and there are a
number of good men on the squad who will
be entering college ‘next fall. To show that
Davidson is interested in these men and re-
joice over their success this year, why could
not a banquet be given to the squad by the
members of the senior class, the junior class,
or any definite organization on the hill? No
doubt there are a number of men who are
undecided now as to what college to attend.

‘Every man in school is certain, that no one

would make a mistake in coming to David-
son—why not show these men that they be-
lieve this and that every man in the stu-
dent body would be glad to have any of
them here with us next year?

__ Doubtless there are many who are
violently opposed to any such action as this.
They believe that Davidson in itself is
known all over the country and needs no
further advertisement to induce any man to
come here, They are sincere in this belief
and we respect their sincerity, but to be
frank wouldn’t they like to have a better
football season next year than the one just
concluded ?

Everyone realizes that we must do some-
thing. Davidson has always needed plenty
of good athletes, there is not a college in the
country that does not need them. Is it
logical that Davidson should have less than

her share merely because we are indifferent
as to her welfare?

THAT GASTONIA CROWD
Whether the Wildcats win or lase, weth-
er they roll up several touchdowns or fail

“to even make a first down, that loyal crowd

of alumni in Gastonia is always behind them
cheering them on until the last whistle. They
stood nobly behind the team last year when
it had a successful season, and they have
backed the team this year sincerely when
the season has been rather unsuccessful.
Last Saturday night they entertained the en-
tire football squad at a testimonial dinner in
Gastonia. They proved to these Wildcats
that the Gastonia alumni appreciate the Da-
avidson team, rejoiced in its fight, and that
hey were behind the team every minute of
play.

Such loyalty as this cannot fail to be ap-
preciated. It is certain that all of.the foot-

| ball team appreciates all that Gastonia has

done for them but it should be known to
them that the student body as a whole is
grateful to this band of alumni who have

a
; .

done so much to perpetuate the spirit of Da-
vidson although they have, been graduated
from this institution for a number of years.

It is such men as these that make us proud
of Davidson and what it can instill in the
heart of every man that spends a portion of
his life in this institution. They have shown
us that college life does not last for a mere
four years only but that its associations, its
friends, and its spirit will last a lifetime.
They have proved to us that the memories
of Davidson are not dulled and forgotten a
year or so after one has left school but rath-
er that it is kept in the heart for years after.

To these men who have’ been so faithful
and loyal we are profoundly grateful. We
are grateful for their hospitality and appre-
ciation of our football squad. But we ap-
preciate and feel more their true loyal Da-
vidson spirit. In this cynical age it is far
too easy to forget the nobler things of life
and believe that college life, college spirit
and all that goes with it is nothing but the
ravings of a publicity agent or an advertis-
ing man. We are glad that we can see defi-
nite evidence and proof of college loyalty
and college spirit as evidenced by graduates
and men much older than us, If it can mean
that much to men who have departed from

college many years ago, it proves to us what

it should mean to those who are now attend-
ing the institution.

4
MORE EXPERIMENTS

A recent bulletin from the University. of Michi-
gan announced that’ next year this institution
would adopt the policy of conferring two-year
diplomas on those students whom they deemed
incapable of carrying further collegiate work. Dr.
Little, president of the university, has stated that
he expected to meet with no little difficulty in at-
tempting to carry out this plan, questioning par-
ticularly the problem of grades and collegiate rank
as a definite: and honest criterion. Under this
system only those who have proven their worth in
two years of undergraduate work will be allowed
to continue their courses looking forward to a
regular bachelor’s degree.

This plan would eliminate the hangers-on of a
college who spend five and six years working for
a diploma and then barely squeeze through. The
question as to its efficiency as a working plan
arises when the rather dill man who is working
hard must-he dropped in favor of a more brilliant
man who does no work. There is also the ques-
tion of the slow man who after two years is just
beginning to realize and appreciate the workings
of the university system of study and its benefits.
There are obvious advantages to this plan, how-
ever, and can wait only forethe future to disclose
its feasibility. The Daily Princetonian comments
very favorably on the plan, however, predicting
that “better things in the line of education in the
course of the next few years” will be evidenced
as a result of this and other experiments.

There have been more experiements and changes
in the general system of education this year than
ever before. Dr. Métklejohn, head of the Experi-
mental College at the University of Wisconsin, re-
ports favorable progress at his institution which
is studying separate cycles of civilization of the
world from their economic and moral viewpoints
rather than as disconnected historical events. This
is. probably the most outstanding change in the
country and if it succeeds will do more to change
the present college system than any other ex:
periment.

At Harvard this year they have introduced a
two weeks “reading period” before examinations.
The success of this venture is also in the doubtful
stage at present, In the last issue of the Alumni
Bulletin of Harvard there appeared an article by
a recent graduate on the present tutorial system
at Harvard. This system is two hours recitation
per week and one hour quiz on definite outside
reading.. This alumnus pleads for cumalative
quizzes and more _ lectures,—another important
point to be considered when one is contemplating
changes in the present system.

Likewise at Princeton are changes being con-
templated and experiments being conducted, The
officials of Princeton are now investigating and
experimenting with the four course plan and the

| preceptorial system.

So it seems that some of these experiments will
be deemed successful and some regarded as fail-
ures. But any one of them introduced into the
present university system would call for radical
changes. It is very probable that everal years
from now we will scarcely recognize our Alma
Mater. But such changes would develop slowly
and we may hope that we will be allowed to grad-
uate without having to go back and start ‘all over
again as freshmen under-a--different-system:

The time has come at last for the entire foot-
ball season to be played over again. Game by
game, play by play, the bull-sessions will wax hot
and furious from now on as would-be coaches
and mentors discover the exact reason why the
Wildcats won this game and lost that one.

Excerpt from the Georgia Cracker: “Georgia
beat Yale, Yale beat the Army, and the Army won
the war—now where does Georgia rate?”

| Ollapodrida

T

There is something about music that can stim-
ulate, inspire, depress you or cause almost any
emotion except anger in you. Some jazz con-
coctions can almost do the latter. The finest
music is that which inspires longing for something
that seems beyond human grasp. Jazz may do
that sometimes but it soon loses its spell. Paul
Whiterhan, Emperor oft he dance lyrics, has been
trying ‘for years to blend jazz and classical music.
His efforts have for the most part’met with failure
but his most récent piece “When Day is Done”
almost brings together the union. If you haven’t
heard it, get it. It will be worth your while..

Football, king of collegiate sports, has again
fallen before father time and the Thanksgiving
turkey. National stars have doffed their hallowed
headgea¥s,, some for the last time, and sports
writers have set themselves to the herculean task
of picking the eleven best players in the country.
For the first time in history, southern schools
offer a wide choice of candidates for these coveted
positions and then to upset all tradition Georgia

‘has stepped out upon the horizon with the strong-

est claim of any team in the country for the na-
tional championship, That claim hangs on the
outcome of its struggle with Georgia Tech in
Atlanta Saturday. "Georgia should win.

The country’s gridirons having produced no
outstanding genius of the game, sport writers have
looked to the attendance to count the new records
for the season. Notre Dame and Southern Cali-
fornia set a record for all time in Chicago last
Saturday when 113,000 souls jammed the stadium
at three dollars or more a head. Each team raked
off something more than $150,000 and the city of
Chicago reaped $50,000 rent. All in all it is esti-
mated that throughout the country 25,000,000
people paid $50,000,000 to witness the«season’s
offerings. The players may be amateur but their
backers are not. It is no wonder that a good
coach can draw a high salary because a winning
team attracts more dollars,

It has been noticeable that since the first inti-
mation of the Fall-Sinclair graft, no outstanding
Republicanvhas risen to rebuke them. Last week
a Republican senator accomplished that feat and
brought himself to the attention of the country.
Men who seek political office find it a difficult
task to attack members of their own party or to
expréss their unbiased opinion because of their
party standing. One fatal slip may ruin a man’s
political career and a politician does not care to
take a chance on bettering the world at that price.

Cecil de Mille, tsar of motion picture directors,
has taken it upon himself to discover the origin
of the motion picture. Recent findings reveal that
Alexander Black first employed the principle in
1894 when he produced moving pictures by show
ing stereopticon slides at the rate of five a second
as compared with the present rate of sixteen a
second, In less than thirty-five years it has be-
come.a billion dollar industry and the chief form
of amusement of the world. But Black died in
obscurity as other inventors, unaware of material
values, have done. There has never been a great
inventor, who has realized the value of money or
of his productions. “In some peculiar way mate-
rial things are obnoxious to them. If Thomas
Edison had cashed in on all of his inventions he

would be by far the richest man in the world to-
day.

The curiosity of the,world will be satified Fri-
day by the display of the new Ford. Various
Prominent and national figures have viewed the
machine but to date none have revealed the secret
of its appearance and Ford has been successful
in keeping that secret safely guarded. One of its
reviewers did break down and describe it as a
Baby Lincoln. Take that for what you may and
look at it tomorrow.

With the coming of the car, motor sales will
increase rapidly. Experts predict a sale of 5,-
000,000 cars next year, a new record. If that
record is to be established business prosperity
must continue because there is no better baro-
meter of business conditions than motor car sales.
Big business will hold sway during the remainder
of the Coolidge term but the bears will come in
for} their good times yet.

And then one remembers that Davidson was
beaten last week by the second largest score in its
athletic history. _Georgia Tech did Duke one bet-
ter with a 66 point margin. Two years from now
48 points will cause as little disconsolation to
students as those 66 Points now do. Few students
knew that Davidson was ever beaten that badly.

W. L. L.
|

Some kind-hearted scribe did pick a Davidson
man for the mythical All-State team. In fact
two Davidson players ‘were mentioned by the
athletic editors of the State,, each man received
one vote. Well, anyway it’s the first year in sev-

eral that we haven’t had anyon the team, That’s
a little consolation.
