THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 28, 1927

PUBLICATIONS BOARD MAKES
ANNOUNCEMENT OF MANAGERS

The Davidson Publications Board last
Tuesday night officially appointed the fol-
‘lowing men to be the business managers of
the college publications: M, P. Crawford,
manager of The Davidsonian; C. R. Rowe,
manager of Quips and Granks, and C. C.
Trabue, manager of; The Chameleon. These

new men will probaly take immediate
charge of their respeGfve jourals.
. . "653 . °
The Publications Board cgnsists of H. M.

Austin, president ? Harllee Branch, and Don
Wharton, and Professors Fleagle and Jack-
aculty members. The student
re elected annually by a popular
he student body. The man receiving
ighest number of votes is automatically
cted president of the board. No member,
of necessity, needs be on the staff of any of
the publications though lately it has been
the custom to elect the editors of various
publications to the board.

'M. P. Crawford was selected from a field
of three, consisting of Julian Lake, Ed
Douglas, and himself. Crawford %s from
Charlotte, N. C. During the three years
that he has been here he has worked hard
on the business end of The Davidsonian and
is universally liked on the campus. He is a
member of the Sigma Apha Epsilon.

C, R. Rowe, the new business manager of

the annual has his home in Fredericksburg,
Va. He is one of the Junior managers of
baseball, and was recently elected editor of

the 1927 Wildcat Handbook and “Y” Hand- |

book combined. Carter is a member of the
Delta Theta Chi social fraternity.

C. C. Trabue, recently chosen business
manager of The Chameleon, has taken an
active interest in business managerships all
the time he has been here, working on the
business staffs of both the Ouips and Cranks
and The Chameleon. He is first sargeant of

Suicide Opponents
Found Local Club

The organization of the first suicide club
south of the’ Mason-Dixon line was perfected
Monday evening on the Davidson campus,
when eight Davidson students banded them-
selves together in the Suicide Club.

The organization expects to seek national
recognition some time within the near future.
Coming at this time of Widespread publicity
concerning the subject of suicide the organi-
zation of this club at Davidson is expected to
be received with considerable interest.™

The charter members of the organization
Were very anxious to avoid a misconception
of their purpose in the organization, The
principal purpose and aim of the club is to
study the question of suicide, weigh carefully
the merits and advantages in each case as far

as possible, and lead to tolerance in our atti- ;
tude toward the subject.

Statements that the members were dog-
matically in sympathy with suicide were de-
nied, but it was generally admitted that it
Was not entirely without advantages. The
club went on record, after consideration of |
the question, as being in hearty discord with
the universal attitude of instant denunciation
of a suicide by the national press.

The charter members of the club are:
James Hall, T. T. Jones, T: G. McCutchen,
W. G, Ogden, Buford Webb, Caldwell With-|
ers, J. G. Wharton and L, D, Wharton, Jr.

The membership will be confined to the
members of the student body. Due to the
recentness of the organization, the club has
not affiliated as yet with the Honorary Fra-
ternity Council, and so was not able to issue
bids for the coming year on the regular
“bid day.”

6G

O

EXPERIENCED. pipe-smokers from Cape Lis-
burne to Cape Sable (get out your map of North
America!) recommend P. A. to you as the
finest tobacco that ever lined the bowl of a pipe.
You'll check-in with their recommendation.

Why, the instant you swing back the hinged
lid on the tidy red tin, your olfactory nerve reg-
isters a fragrance like that of a pine-grove on a
damp morning. And when you tuck a load of
this wonderful tobacco into your pipe — say,

P. A. is sold everywhere in
tidy red tins, pound and half-
pound tin humidors, and

wm

Company “D”. Charlie’s home is in pe The club announced that. bids will be is- Mister! with spongermolitencr tap.

ville, Tenn. >is: 1 > f Beta Theta] sue thi > nex reek for ScR pas ° ° nd_ always with every bit

ville, Tenn, He is a member of Beta Theta| sued within the next weel for the coming Cool as Cape Lisburne, mentioned above. of bite and parch removed by
‘

Pi fraternity. year,

e Prince Albert process.

Sweet as the plaudits of a first-night audience.
Mild as morning in Cape Sable. (That’s work-
ing-in the old geography!) Mild, yet with a
full tobacco body that completely satisfies your
smoke-taste. Buy some Prince Albert today and

Fresh Choose Two |SPeakers Secured
~ Council Members| for Commencement’

Dr. Wm. T. Martin has announced the fact |

The first ballot for the selection of two
councilmen from the rising Sophomore ¢lass
was held Wednesday morning, April 19, im-
mediately following the holidays. Seven
men were nominated from the floor: Alan
Frew, T. R. Carson, T. W. Brohard, G. P.
Henderson, Scott Brown, J. D. Hammett
and R. S. Reynolds. Five ballots were nec-
essary to choose the two men. Alan Frew,
the retiring president of the Freshman class,
was elected on the first ballot by a decisive
ballot, the remainder of the votes being even-

that he has secured two of the speakers
who will deliver addresses at the ninety-first
commencement of Davidson College. These
men are: Judge W. P. Stacy, of Raleigh,
N. C., and Rev. J. L. MacMillan, of Nor-
folk, Va. |

Judge Stacy, chief justice of the Supreme |
Court of North Carolina, will deliver the
literary address to the graduates, the under-
graduates, and their friends, on the night of
May 31. He is one of the leading barristers
of the state as indicated by his position, and |

make the test!

1927, R. i Reynolds Tobacco
pany, Winston-Salem, N. C.

PRINGE ALBERT

—no other tobacco is like it!

ly divided. the college is indeed fortunate to have se- |
As the time was limited and it was neces- | cured his services. |
sary to elect a second councilman before the Rev. J. L. MacMillan, D.D., is pastor of | | t

i
following morning, a special meeting of the|the First Presbyterian Church in Norfolk, | ¢ >) | | HOW LONG HAS IT BEEN SINCE YOU
|

:
class was called at 7:00 p. m. With a ma-| Va. and will preach the baccalaureate :
jority of the class present the second ballot | sermon in the Davidson church, on Sunday COLLEGE JEWELRY | CHECKED UP ON YOU INSURANCE?

Are you absolutely sure you are protected—that your policies cover the

eliminated Carson and Hammett; Brown was morning, May 29. Dr. MacMillan is said to |
present value of your property? How about your home, your personal belong-

eliminated in the third, Reynolds in the] possess an unusual appeal for young people | Ww h i Clocke I I t
fourth and Brohard in the fifth, leaving Hen-| of college age. atches anc OCKS i ya ae of business, your stock of merchandise, your automobile,

derson and Frew as the councilmen for the] The officials of ithe local “Y” state that Let. this agency help you determine your insurance values

Sophomore class for the year ’27-'28. C. R.| they have not yet secured a speaker who will Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Pritchett automatically became a member | preach the annual sermon before that. or- INDEPENDFNCE TRUST COMPANY
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT

TITII IIIT CII srr

on being electe dto the presidency of the| ganization, hut when he is selected, the roster

Seal Stationery

rc
H
\)
J
a
J
Y)
i
a)
\y
a
\
H
a)
J
H
i
a)
a
8
8
a
a
a
0
a
i}
a
a)
a
Ny
a)
a
a
4

class. of speakers will be complete. CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Frew, for the past four months, has proven Pennants and Pillows McALISTER CARSON ('13) Mgr. M. B. SPEIR, JR. ('26)
himself, ‘both to the class and to the student HONORARY FRATERNITY ee ——————— seeseszil|

body, as a well qualified man to perform the
privileged duties of a councilman. The ma-
jority he received in the election showed his
popularity with every member of his class.
During his administration he has carried
through many original ideas. In looking for-
ward to the future he has devised a scheme
by which the class of ’30 will not be so heay-
ily taxed during their Junior and Senior
years. The class banquet at Charlotte, with
the Chamber of Commerce as their host,
was a great success, with Frew presiding.
By gaining the co-operation of the class
with the desires of the Court of Control he
has gained for them the privilege of remov-
ing their fresh caps sooner than classes here-
tofore have been allowed to remove them.

G. P. Henderson, better known as “Doc,”
a three letter man from the Gastonia High
School, entered th class a month or so late
last fall on account of illness. All this year
he has been kept from entering the class’
athletics on account of a bad leg. It is
hoped, however, that that leg will get better
and “Doc”. will get back into his old style
next fall and be andded strength to the
Wildcats. |

Man may learn to fly like a bird but
he'll never learn to sit on a barbed wire
fence.

COUNCIL

(Continued from page 1)
terest and knowledge in philosophy. The
Biology club bid five Juniors.

The list of those bid is as follows:

Sigma Upsilon: D. W. Hancock, P. F. |
Jones, Boyce Martin, H. L, Shelby, Cald- |
well Withers.

Delta Pi Kappa: A. N. Brown, C. R.
Lake, J. B. Moriarity, W. K. Pritchett, H.
L. Shelby.

Omega Phi Alpha: J. S. Gray, D. How-
ard, T. T. Jones, R. R. Kane, Boyce Martin,
C. S. McRae, F. C. Withers, J. G. Wharton. |

Alpha Phi Epsilon: F. D. Daniel, W. L.
Dumas, Jr., J. R. 4Graham, R. C. Grady, |
R. F. Hall,. Warren Ogden, L. K. Pritchett, |
W. K. Pritchett, Rowland Sims, Buford |
Webb. |

International Relations Cluh: John Akers, |
J. R. Covington, M. T. Gilmour, R. C.}
Grady, J. R. Graham, E. R. McConnell, J.
P. McKnight, W. K. Pritchett, C. C. Trabue.

Scabbard and Blade: H. B. Arbuckle,
Jr., W. B. Bradford, P. J. Garrison, Julian
Lake, J. C. McNeely, M. C. O'Neal, P. W.
Walton. ;

Biology Club:, M. P. Crawford, Duncan
McEacheon, G. S. McSwain, C. R. Rowe,
D. G. Shaw.

Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler

DAVIDSON, N. C.

PRINTING

When in need of first-class job

printing of any description, see

VERNON S. BROYLES

QUICK SERVICE
BEST PRICES

Agent for

Presbyterian Standard Pub:'Co.

Charlotte, N. C.

S& W Cafeterias

CHARLOTTE
GREENVILLE

ASHEVILLE
RALEIGH

WHOLESALE

When You Need Candy
See Us

26 28 S. Cellege St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C

