THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 17, 1927

—————————

The Davidso nian

Member of North Carelina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
_ Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF °15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Peblished Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Ratered at the Post of Davidson as Mail Matter of
Af the Pose Oe heceed Clase,

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
1@ Cents per Copy; $2.99 the Collegiate Year
AML Articles for Publication mast bs is the hands of the

ico} tor 722 p. m. . Articles re-
ceiv yA an HAL... coured will not be publi

BOYCE MARTIN

Editor-in-Chief

M. P. CRAWFORD Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
As NivBROW Nii cel ccsebccieccwcddscucsdéacuas, Managing Editor
W._K. PRITCHETT Managing Editor
J. B. MORIA Managing Editor
Cc. R. LAKE Athletic Editor
BA AWN Nieadicdsucccsccsotenicccsncsuccaul Feature Editor
W. L. LINGLE SN A i Editor
F. C. WITHERS A iate Editor
T. T. JONES A iate Editor
L. C. WADSWORTH ....-..-- (upusscsabsancene Alumni Editor
R. C. GRADY Exchange Editor
Us BUSINESS STAFF
R. S. ABERNETHY......_..--Assistant Business Manager
6... Js ATSLIOON 65600. cc cacesoces: Assistant Business Manager
W. M. POWELL....-......... -Assistant Business Manager
P. ti, eeaoe Subscription Manager
B, W. DI IN, Circulation Manager
S. W. MORRIS. licitor
W. _B._ McGUIRE........--- licitor
By Far CG Mais saben ucusscanbcecs licitor
Reporters’ Club
W._H. BAILEY. President
. L. EL Vice-President
. R. GRAHAM eanitigy vroneurer
. P. ANDERSON R. W. McDERMI
W._H. BEST W._B. McQUEEN
E, T. EDELMAN 0 F. D, MILLER
E. S. HEEFNER V. A. MILTON
M. K. HENDERSON C. M. PRATT
R. F. JA TT D. T. STOKES
F. W._ JOHNSTON W. R. TREVERTON
Z. V. LONG W. R. WEAVER
J. P. McBRYDE B. A. WILSON

EDITORIAL

COLLEGIATE NEWS SERVICE

Not so many moons have passed before
all of the critics of would-be collegiate jour-
nals complained that the periodicals were
writing too much on local happenings and
incidents. These articles written in a dull
way about uninteresting occurrences could
not fail but bore the reader, if he read
enough of it to be bored. Numerous articles
were written to criticise this this tendency
in the collegiate newspapers, and’ now
_whether due to these articles or not the
trend of collegiate periodicals seems to be
in the opposite direction. Now news from
colleges all over the country is introduced
into the pages of every little paper at any
institution in the country. And now again
the critics arise to say that the college jour-
nals have too much of this.

Much good can be derived from an intel-
ligent comparison of situations on various
campuses about the country. This is ac-
complished when important problems are
considered carefully. It can do no good
whatsoever if random bits of disconnected
news be combined from colleges thousands
of miles apart. Sometimes news of this sort
is used merely for filler, others use it intel-
ligently and directed toward some useful
purpose, and then others use it because they
feel it is necessary to have news of. other
colleges within the pages of their paper.

Significant happenings on various cam-
puses have a bearing on the attitude on the
students of other colleges, directly and in-
directly. This justifies in a way the ex-
change of news among the various colleges
‘and accounts in a minor way for the pre-
ponderance of foreign items in college pa-
pers.

There is the thing of carrying a custom °

too far, however, and it seems that some of
our esteemed contemporaries are doing this.
A college journal should never be completely
. filled with foreign news items and local
news completely swamped by articles from
other institutions.

With the above in view, it will be inter-
esting to note the progress of the new col-
legiate news service in North Carolina which
is now in its infancy. Whether this. will
tend to make the papers in the state worse
than they are, or improve their standards
will remain to be seen.

DR. GLENN FRANK SPEAKS

When so much criticism is being wafted
about on the winds of journalism as to the
method of teaching in the institutions a re-
cent article written by Dr. Glenn Frank on
this subject will be interesting. The article
follows: . Be:

The least practical thing about the Ameri-

‘can university is the practical courses ‘it

gives. ee S ;
I have just ae with the father of a

g the son to a

punip ss career.:-He™

—

university for training in its school of com-
merce.

-. “Why, F've graduates of schools of com-

merce come into my business,” he said, “who
couldn’t manipulate a comptometer. Their
heads were full of a lot of impractical. eco-
nomic bunk, but they had learned nothing
practical. Wouldn’t they have been better
off if they had plunged immediately into
business ?”

Here is the great American illusion—that
early and exclusive specialization in the
mastery of practical technique makes prac-
tical men.

I call to the witness stand the distinguish-
ed English scientist, Prof. Karl Pearson,
whose mind was singularly free from ro-
mantic nonsense about education.

“I have been engaged for 16 years in help-
ing to train engineers,” he said, “and those
of my old pupils who are now coming to the
front in life are not those who stuck to facts
and formulae,’and sought only for what
they thought would be ‘useful to them in
their profession.’

“On the contrary, the lads who paid at-
tention to method, who thought more of
proofs than of formulae, who accepted even
the specialized branches of their training as
means of developing habits of observation
rather than of collecting ‘useful facts,’ these
lads have developed into men who are suc-
ceeding in life.

“And the reason of this seems to me,
when considering their individual cases, to
be that they could adapt themselves to an
environment more or less different from that
of the existing profession; they could go
beyond its procedures, its formulae, and its
facts, and develop new ones.

“Their knowledge of method and their
powers of observation enabled them to sup-
ply new needs, to answer to the call when
there was a demand, not for old knowledge,
but for trained brains.

“The only sort of technical education the
nation ought to trouble about is teaching
people to see and think.

“What we want are trained brains, scouts
in all fields, and not a knowledge of facts
and processes crammed into a wider range
of untrained minds.”

If we want our sons to be more effective
in practical action after they leave colleges

and universities, we must make our liberal .

education. more real, rather than coaching
our sons from the start in the manipulation
of comptometers. — Copyright, McClure
Newspaper Syndicate. “

QUOTH JESTING PILATE

An interesting editorial appeared in the
New York World recently illustrating why
there are so many mistatements and evident
errors in the makeup of the ordinary paper.

“All of the newspapers agreed yesterday
that A. K. had been slapped in the face by a
young woman on the stage of the Century
Theatre. As a matter of news-reporting,
illustrative of the difficulty of obtaining
agreement even in an eyewitness account of
the same incident taking place publicly, it
is interesting to note some variance as to
details. :

“These are descriptions of the manner in
which the young woman struck her blow:

World: Slashed him viciously across the
cheek with her gloves.

News: Struck him on the left cheek with
the bouquet.

American: Dropped her flowers and slap-

_ ped him in the face with her gloves.

Times: Slapped his face vigorously with
her gloves three times.

Herald-Tribune: Beat him on the face and
head. .. a half-dozen blows.

Evening World: Struck him across the face
several times..”

oe Vigorously and accurately slapped
im.

“And this is what happened next:

American: A. K. ‘reeled back.’

Evening World: He stood unmoved.

News: He stepped back, maintaining a calm
pose.

World: He stood still, but used his arms to
‘wave back his friends.’
Herald-Tribune: He stood still, with his

arms ‘thrown back.’

Journal: He reeled.

Post: He remained unmoved.

Mirror: He reeled from the blow. He
supporters were stemmed by a handful
of royalists. Fists flew; noses ran red;
shirts and collars were torn.

“These reports come from trained report-
ers, and no doubt they vary less than the re-
ports which a vast maiority of the 5,
spectators of this event brought away with
them. All psychologists are aware.of the fact
that different people Teport thé.same event
diderentivcvhen they undertake to describe
it in detail. The reporting-of news is neces-

_ Ollapodrida

Here are a few of the things that have happened
in the broad domain of these United States and
other countries during the past week. Draw your

_ own conclusions.

’

For three days the heavens opened and the
floods descended upon the New England States.
Creeks became torrents, railroads vanished,
bridges were swept away like drift-wood. Mont-
pellier, Vermont, was submerged under forty feet
of water. The Lieutenant-Governor, seeking his

home, was stunned and drowned. One hundred,

and fifty lives and $50,000,000 was the total cost.
Once more the country responded. Fellow suffer-
ers in Mississippi gave what little they had left,
but secretly were glad that the cause of flood re-
lief was strengthened.

Last July a book bearing the title of “The Pres-
ident’s Daughter” came from*the presses of The
Elizabeth Ann Guild, Inc. The author, one Nan
Britton, purported to be the childhood lover of
former President Warren Harding and in a very
bare-faced manner revealed their infatuation and
the birth of a child. The press sought to avoid
the book, gave it scant notice. Nevertheless the
tale was convincing and the publication ran
through edition after edition. Over 300,000 copies
have been sold. Harding relatives remained silent.
Last week, however, the brother of the former
president issued a statement to the press. He
neither denied nor admitted the accusation that
the child was the president’s and that he had
failed to support her. However, he did state
that the president was a lover of children and
that his family felt certain that such a child would
have been provided for in his will, regardless of
her legitimacy. At the sarne time he asked the
Post Office Department to investigate the disposi-
tion of funds that have been solicited by the pub-
lishing company for the welfare of illegitimate
children.

For many centuries great men have been buried
in Westminster Abbey in London. Now the earth
beneath has reached its capacity. There is no
room for future great men. For that reason an
addition or a new building seems necessary. Plans
have been made but the clergy looks upon them
with disfavor. Few people know that up until
a hundred years ago, anyone could be buried in
the abbey for as little as $270.

President Coolidge pressed a button and the
new vehiclé-tunnel from Manhattan to the main-
land was opened, At once ferry stock declined
and traffic congestion was’ relieved. At the same
time plans were being laid for the boring of a tun-
nel from the Rock of Gibraltar to Africa. The dis-
tance is twelve miles and the cost would be $48,-
000,000, Engineers have pronounced the task
simple because of perfect submarine conditions.
Spanish, British and French capitalists are backing
the project.

Two kinds of people often commit suicide:
those who are dependent upon-the world and make
it unhappy and those who bring the world happi-
ness but are unhappy themselves. In September
Thomas Allan Dwyer, a cripple, unable to help
himself in any way, was admitted to Fordham
University. The administration was.reluctant but
cripples are always good students. Kindly stu-
dents helped him in all his duties for a month or
more, then feeling the nausea too great, asked the
administration to have him withdrawn. He re-
turned to his home, spoke to his father and
mother, and then at the first Opportunity drank
poison.

In a cheap New York hotel a negro maid en-
tered a room and found a man on his knees in
prayer. Returning in a few minutes she noticed that
he had not moved. Reluctantly she touched him,
turned him over. Blood trickled from his temple.
The man was Marceline Orbes, the most famous
comedian ever known to Broadway. Pictures and
costumes of his former success littered the room.
In 1905 he was the feature attraction of the Hip-
podrome. In 1912 his fame had dwindled, his
partner committed suicide. He left the stage, to
return to hollow success in 1920. Sober faces no
longer cracked at his witticisms.

In Chicago a famed surgeon hypnotized his pa-
tient and operated. She felt no ill effects. The

“practice has never become general in the United

States but it has been effectively used for years ©

in France. ; W. L. L.
=SSS====SSSeSe&««»_—_—
sarily affected by such human sonsidera-
tions. Now and then an incident like the
A. K. incident serves to remind us of the
fact. we

“If a physical act taking place publicly be-
fore an audience in a New York theatre

watching the single mairece onto the stage.

of a famous man cannot be reported with-

out varying versions of the same simple set

of facts, what happens when a reporter in

Shanghai sits down to cable his newspaper

word as to-what 300,000,000 Chinese people

‘are thinking about Bolshevism and Bud-
‘dhism and Christianity this morning.”
: —The New York World.

Exploding Valve

Random Thoughts and Spontaneous Erup-
tions on Everything from Goal Posts to
to Gold Diggers

This practice of bumming. . . Wonder it is that
more of us are not injured or killed while bum-
ming rides. Three weeks ago two Davidson men
“landed” a ride in a car that a few miles further
down the road smashed into another automobile
and killed an occupant. The college men mirac-
uously were unhurt. . . One week later, three
men coming back from Charlotte were picked up
by a very obliging driver. Too late the boys dis-
covered that their kind friend was drunk, abso-
lutely drunk, not pleasantly high. Fortunately
the driver stopped after a few miles to fight with
a fellow occupant of the car to decide which
would drive. He lost and the collegians reached
the campus safely.

We could hardly advocate college men becom-
ing too dignified to bum rides, but we do most

warmly beg, implore, and entreat them to do so ~

cautiously. By day the danger is considerably
lessened; at night the chances of us securing good
rides become almost nil.
cident serious enough to make us refrain from
this practice will happen. It might for some, not
for us. We have stopped after being scared to
to death the other night.

“What are you going to do next year?” How
many Seniors have definitely made up their minds.
True it is, they may have indicated their pref-
erence but are they going to stick to it? How
many, along about the first of May, will reluctantly
accept a position teaching in some small school?
Accept, we say, but only through kindness, for
in reality they will have no other choice. They
will of necessity have to do something.

Not only have we a definite profession or trade
in view but also have we taken any steps toward
securing a position? Taking reliable figures
gleaned from the pages of a registrar’s report in
a college similar to Davidson, upon which we
base our assumption, we would predict a heavy
swinging over toward teaching during the spring
months. This report to which we are referring
showed that the opening of the Senior year for
125 men 120 of them have chosen their “life work.”
Twenty per cent were planning to teach. On
May Ist 44 per cent were expecting to become
teachers.

When comes-the time for you to make your de-
cision are you going to be ready to start life’s
work? Or will you be among those who switch at
the last moment and “accept” anything that offers
itself?

This spirit of ours.... We have heard so much
for years of the wonderful Davidson spirit. That
is we used to hear of such a thing. Now to hear
some talk it has completely vanished. But there
we beg to differ with the powers-that-be, or, prob-
ably more accurately, the powers-that-rant-and-
rave. The spirit is here with us but it is being
manifested in different ways; the entire atmos-
phere of the college is changing; old institutions
are disappearing; the faculty is being augmented
each year by the addition of competent instruc-
tors; the personnel of the student body is meta-
morphosed almost completely; the old give way
to the new. Because a man does not yell himself
hoarse at football games is no indication that he
does not possess “spirit;” because we have this
year been reticent about attending so-called pep-
meetings—we think they might better be termed
“spiritualistic seances’—should not cause howls
of consternation to be emitted from the’ throats
of these same “powers.” As we say the spirit is
here with us, but it is being manifested in new
ways. We are no longer a mad mob of lusty-
throated rubes who are endeavoring to hoodwink
others into believing that “spirit” is yelling. A
man’s heart is the important consideration. We
maintain that the hearts of the Davidson students
still yearn for the betterment of the school.

At this time last year, many were singing the
praises of “Monk” and “Tex.” This fall we have
been unable to locate a single, solitary note that
even sounded like a chirp in the same vein. But
then we were headed toward the state champion-
ship. Now we are fighting a losing battle to keep
out of the cellar. Should we, then, fail to recoge
nize the worth and ability of our coaching staff?
They are the identical “miracle men,” the “wiz-
ards” of football of last season. Only they have
not the material. And why? Because two good
classes “athleticly” came in succession but no
others followed; because no high school stars
were brought—not bought—to Davidson. There-
in lies our trouble. Rumors are afloat that next
year’s fresh class will include many “stars,” but
what we are interested in is whether they cap-
tained the “miracle eleven of Paw Creek” or play-
ed on some reputable first grade team. None
want the scholastic standing so high as we—we
might advocate adoption of College Entrance
Board Examinations—but if Davidson is to retain

her high standing in Southern athletics, we MUST

HAVE ATHLETICS.
C. W.

We hope that no ac-
