Vol. XIV

DAVIDSON COL

LEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.,

MAY 12, 1927

No. 29

Five Davidson Delegates Attend North Wildcat Net Team Back |

Carolina Collegiate Press Association

Chron‘cle, of Duke, Adjudged Best
College Newspaper

HELD AT GREENSBORO

Harllee Branch Selected as Best
Editorial Writer in North Caro-
lina Collegiate Circles

On May 5, 6, and 7 the North Carolina
College for Women, at Greensboro, was
hostess to the North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association in its thirteenth semi-annual
convention. The sessions were marked by
addresses, selections of best. journalistic en-
deavors and election of officers for the
coming year. Significantly gratifying was
the selection of Harlee Branch, Jr., retiring
editor the The Davidsonian, as the best
editorial writer in North Carolina collegiate
circles. He was declared such by the
editors of The Greensboro News, the selec-
tion being based on editorials submitted by
North Carolina college editors.

On arrival Thursday noon the delegates
lunched at N. C. College for Women and
were banqueted that night at the O. Henry
Hotel, the afternoon having been taken up
with a tour of the city for the ninety odd
delegates present, the Civitan Club being
hosts for this latter occasion.

The Friday sessions were given over en-
-»hitely.to business. In-the. afternoon Mayor

Jeffries of Greensboro, who is connectec’!

withe The Greensboro Daily, welcomed the
delegates in the name of the city. Mr,
Tom Bost, of The Raleigh News and Ob-
server, also spoke to the delegation, deliver-
ing an able address anent the collegiate
press. Throughout Friday, as the other two
days of the conference, meetings of the
» Magazine, paper and annual groups were
held. Friday evening saw the delegates at
the dance-pageant given by N. C. C. W.,
*following the partaking of-a delightful buf-

Split Debate Held
With Duke Orators

On last Tuesday night Henry Powell and
L. K. Pritchett met the Duke debating team
of S. G. Sparger and Richard C. Horne in
an open forum style debate held in the Duke
University Auditorium. The question at is-
sue was: “Resolved: That the United States
should adopt uniform marriage and divorce
laws by national legislation.’ Powell with
Horne of Duke upheld the affirmative while
Pritchett argued for the negative with Spar-
ger of Duke. The count of the house on the |
merits of the question, after the debate was
over and after an hour’s discussion of the
question had been held by the audience,
showed the house two to one in favor of the |
negative side. Mr. B. U. Ratchford, °26, ;
was timekeeper for. the occasion.

Each debater, following the Oxford plan,
was limited to fifteen minutes speaking with
no rebuttal, with the exception of Powell,
first speaker of the evening) for the af-

firmative, who was limited: to twelve, min- |

utes with five minutes for rejoinder.

In his speech Powell showed that some
change in regard to the legislation of mar-
riage andadivorce was necessary because of
the diversity in law causing no law at all
and because diversity of law made for dis-
respect of «all. law. ~~°

Pritchett, speaking first for the negative,
showed that such a uniform. proposed law
of the affirmative was unnecessary and
impractical. He pointed out that the evils
of the present are not as bad as his oppon-
ents had pointed out, and that they were |
existing perhaps in theory but not in ac- |
tual practice. It was further conclusively |

(Continued on page 2) |

Fovensic Officials

,a Davidson College Tennis Team the Wild-

from Northern Invasion |
With Decisive Victories

Pennsylvania Gives Team Only Fourteen Trackmen
Defeat of Year to Receive Letters

McCUTCHEN STARS
Cornell, Colgate, and Bethlehem
Overwhelmed by Davidson
Tennis Team During
Extensive Trip

Coach Tex Tilson has announced the men

‘who will be recommended to .the Athletic

to receive the “D.C.” in track. The

each man, has won in meets this year:
Captain H. G. Goodykoontz, 24,
Currie, 39, G. R. Sims, 15, J. C. Frye, 13,
D. O. Leftwich, 19 D. M, Calhoun 14 1-2,
over three large’) R, E. Kell, 10, J. W. Melton, Wry Gh) U5 1

On the most extensive trip ever taken by

cats came out victorious

nerthern colleges and bowed in defeat to Pinkney £5; E. E. Brown, 16 M. C. O'Neal, |

only one, the University of Pennsylvania. 14, J. A. Treverton, Jr, 14, E.
| Qutside of the Pennsylvania match no. one | 12, and Manager J. A. King.
man lost over one match, there being no weak Those who will be recommended
man on the team. Fresh from winning the “Dp, @” are:

State Doubles Championship at Chapel Hill, KE. L. Lafferty, J. &. Gardner, A. H. Whit
the team first went to the University of | tle, W. R. Treverton, J. A. Womack, T. R
Pennsylvania at Philadelphia. Here bad | Nunan, H. S. Goodwin, W. G. McGavock,
courts, wet from recent rains, hampered the | C. H. King, Jr. T. W. Brohard, Jr, and
play and was probably the cause of the! W, C. Kirkland.

poor showing of the Wildcat Netmen. They These men will be recommended for these
| lost here by a score of 6 to 0. Going next | awards because of the number of points won
j to Cornell University at Ithaca, N, Y..) in meets and because of the hard work
| Davidson downed the strong Cornell team | and faithful practice that they have put
jto the tune of 5 to 1, The next team | forth. The Council will meet in the near
| to be met and conquered was Colgate Uni- ! future and consider these men with
| versity, who only won one match to David- recommended by Coach Monk Younger for
| son's five. Following these’ came Bethlehem letters and monograms in baseball. The lat-
| Moravian Coilege, who alivays puts out a ter ise tis no been made public yet because
| strong team as this is the only inter-col-| of Coach Monk's being away from David-
| legiate sport in which they participate, and! son for the past few days. However, it is
| was overwhelmed by the same score of
to 1.

McCutcheon the Wildcats, |
winning three matches handily and putting’) Tilson stated that the prospects for next year
up -a--strong fight on his one defeat.
the men played well and gave a fine
hibition of sportsmanship on the trip.

In the first match at the University of
Pennsyl¥ania the Wildcats met up with their
first and only defeat of the season. A soft

R. Bohannon,

these

5} expected to be given out shortly after his
return,

starred for

All| are indeed bright.

ex

The only trouble has
(Continued on page 3)

Editor Announces

Council to receive the “D” and also those |
list |
of men follows, with the number of points |

John

for the |

In connection with the track team, Coach |

Currie, Davidson Track Artist, Shatters
Two Records in State Cinder Carnival

. pacientes
Wildcat Relay Team Plans First in
| Mile Relay

| NEAR WORLD RECORD

University of North Carolina Wins

as Twelve New Records Are Es-
tablished at Greensboro

John Currie came well up to expectations
of him last Saturday, and at the State Track
| Meet in Greensboro, ran*the 100-yard dash
in 9.6 seconds to set a new state record and
to come within one-tenth of a second of the

world’s record in the Century dash, now held
| by Charlie Paddock. Then, not stopping at
| that he ran the 220 yard daSh in 21.8 sec-
| onds for a new state record. The weather
} Was fine, the track in good shape, and in all,
| twelve old state records were broken and
| new marks set.

| The meet was won by the University of
| North Carolina with 71 1-2 points; Duke was
; second with 49 1-2 points; North Carolina
State third with 38 1--2; Wake Forest fourth
with 16 1--2; Lenoir-Rhyne fifth with 14;
Davidson sixth with 13 1-2; Guilford seventh
with 5 1-2. Elon and High Point College
failed to place.

Daniels of Wake Forest was high scorer
of the meet, piling up a total of 15 points.
He took first in the 120 yard high and the
| 220 yard low hurdles, and set a new record
| for the running broad jump. Spurlock tof
14
winning first in the javelin, second in the:
broad jump, and setting a new record in the
shot put.
| Another outstanding event of the day was
| the record breaking vault Brantley of
| Duke, He cleared the at 12 feet 2
inches, outdistancing the former record by

10 inches. The mile relay, won by Currie,
Goodykoontz, Melton, and Pinkney of Da-

Lenoir-Rhyne: came next with points,

|
|
|
|

of

bar

| vidson was beautifully run, Pinkney coming
vin especially vctl on the last ‘ap = This was
| the first official relay record. McDowell of
The Quips and Cranks is to be issued on | State won the high jump with a leap of

‘1 fet supper. ;
' Mn the concluding business session on Sat-
urday morning the following students were

Distinctive Annual

| and slowed up the playing on both teams, In ae

| ;
Named by Powell | clay court, sticky and muddy, hurt'the seam,

ere

(Continued on page 6)

Academy of Scientists
Hold Annual Convention

Dr. W. L. Porter, of Davidson,
Elected Vice-President

During Friday and Saturday of last week
the North Carolina Academy of Science met
at Davidson in its twenty-sixth annual con-
vention at which about 95 delegates were
present. The convention adjourned at one
o'clock on Saturday after a series of meet-
ings which occupied the greater part of the
time during the two days which the delegates
‘ Spent on the campus. At these meetings

: ly Papers on various scientific subjects
read by some of the members of the

Fganization. It was the unanimous opinion
- @ the officers of the body that the gather-
had been very successful, many inter-

esting topics having been discussed.

“Friday afternoon following the officers for

the coming year were elected: President,

J. M. Bell of the University of North Car-

olina; vice-president, W. L. Porter of Da-
- yidson; secretary and treasurer, H. R. Tot-

ten of the University of North Carolina;

and councilman to the American Association

for the advancement of science, Bert Cun-

ningham of Duke. The following will serve

on the executive committee: A. H. Patter-
‘gon, U. N.'C.; S. W. Nowell, Wake’ For-
_ fest; and H. B. Arbuckle, Davidson.

- The meeting opened Friday at 10:30 in

Shearer Hall, at which time various papers
“were presented. At 2:30 in the afternoon

there was a meeting of the executive com-
= mittee, followed by another general session
» «- (Continued on page 6)

Henry Powell, president of the Forensic |
Council, announced Monday that the officers |
of next year’s council would be, in addition |
to himself as president, Chalmers Davidson,
Vice-President; Jeff Garrison, Treasurer,
Bob Grady and Lawrence" Dumas, Secretaries |
of Intercollegiate Debating, and Frank
Hall and W. K. Pritchett, Secretaries of
Society Debating. The president, vice-pres-
ident, and treasurer were selected by the
outgoing council, and the four secretaries

were appointed by Henry Powell, the new |
The appointment of the secre- |
taries was officially announced Monday the |
9th. Of the seven officers three have been |

president.

on varsity debating teams, Powell, Grady,
and Pritchett, two have

the varsity, Davidson and Garrison.

The complete debating schedule for the |

year 1927-28 has not yet been entirely filled |
out but the present plans call for two dis- |
tinct trips and several home debates. Of
the two trips one will be made toward the
north and one will be made into the south.
The entire itinerary of the northern trip!
has not been completed as yet but so far. a
debate with George Washington University
has been scheduled and’ negotiations are be- |
ing carried on with other northern univer - |
sities. The southern trip will include meets
with Emory University and with the Uni- |
versity of the South, or as it better known
Sewanee, with prospects of another debate
with some other colleges of the south. |
Among the home debates there will be meets |
with William and Mary, Rutgers Univer-
sity, and Duke University. Several other
home debates are in the process of mak-
ing and the Forensic Council is endeavor-
ing to fill out a complete schedule of
meets.

(Continued on page 6)

this meet McAlpine of Davidson lost to

served as alter-|
nates, and the other two have yet to make |

(Continued on page 6)

ZZ
(a

—)

| ton, editor-in--chief. The annual is to be

COMMENCEMENT
PROGRAM

Sunday, May 29

11:00 A. M.— Baccalaureate Sermon,
by Rev. J. L. MeMillan, D.D., pas-
tor First Presbyterian Church, Nor-
folk, Va.

8:00 P. M.—Annual Sermon
the Y. M. C. A., by Rev. Dwight
Chalmers, pastor Church-by-the-
Side-of-the-Road, Greensboro.

Monday, May 30

4:00 P. M.—Reception by Y. M. C.,
A. for graduates and their, parents.

5:00 P. M.—Class Day Exercises:
W. H. Branch, Jr., Class Orator;
L. D. Wharton, Jr., Class Valedic-
torian; W. T. Covington, Jr., Class
Salutatorian.

Tuesday, May 31

9:30 A. M.—Meeting of the Board of
Trustees,

12:15 P.M.—Annual_ Literary) Ad-
dress, by Judge W. P. Stacey, Chief
ae ae te Supreme Court of ship of Wharton in the editorial department,

1:30 'P i ae : }and Williams of the business department,
Be vee they bid fair to publish the best annual in

x Rant | the history of Davidson. At any rate it will
Alumni Association, be a distinct credit and asset to the college.

5:00 P. M.—Reception by the Faculty. This branch of the editorial staff has aided

8:00 P. M.—Senior Oratorical ‘Con- in spreading the fame of Davidson College,
test. Award of Trophies, sie,

\larger than all previous issues, being 300
| pages or more. The 1925 annual contained
| 260 pages, and the 1926 issue contained 236
pages, so it is easily seen that the present an-

nual will eclipse former issues,

. An unique feature of this year’s annual
| will be a forerunner, in the form of a four

Before |} | ie

| page newspaper, explaining the new and un-

| usual features contained in the annual.

is to be placed in the hands of the students
las soon as it comes off the press.

The work is being rushed in order to get

;exempted from examinations, and who ex-
| pect to leave for home at the earliest possible
| time.

All the students are looking forward with

|The fact that it is‘to be so radically neaw
|and better than former years is the reason
‘for this, |

| The 1927 staff have worked hard to put

and
General

Luncheon
the

and each new development brings new ad-
‘| vantages to the college.

This has been one of the most successful
| years in college history, with state cham.
‘| pionships in football and tennis, as well as
advances in forensic work, and it is sincerely

Medals and Diplomas. Exercises i
Literary Society Halls. .

‘Wednesday, May 30
0:00 A. M.—Award of College Med.
als. Addresses by Vatedictorian and
Salutatorian, Graduation Exercises.

| or before May 21, according to Don Whar- |

This

| the paper to the seniors who have been |

| expectancy to the issuance of the annual. |

| out a good annual, and under the able leader-!

(Continued on page 4A)

Inspiring Mothers’ Day
Program Led by Branch
iY. M. C. A. Holds Vesper Program

| Ss in Honor of Mother

“Revere the memory of the mother of
| yesterday, love the mother of today, and
| safeguard the integnity of the mother of
| tomorrow” was the stirring appeal of Harl-
j lee Branch speaking before an overflowing

crowd of students and townspeople in
Shearer Hall Sunday evening,

This service, held in honor of Mother,
| was very impressive. Mrs. W. J. Martin

‘and Mrs. R. D. Dougherty accompanied by
| Mrs. Mathis sang’ a beautiful selection on
mother’s devotion, Charles Barr added con-
siderably to the attractiveness of the pro-
/ gram with a violin solo. Bill Christian read
‘the scripture from the second chapter of
| Exodus after which C. R. Pritchett and P.
| J. Garrison led in prayer. The song service
was in charge of Lin MacClair.

| .The speaker took his text from Exodus
| 2:9 describMig-“the incident of Pharaoh’s
daughter promised the mother of Moses’
wages for rearing him. This was the cul-
mination of a mighty struggle between the
forces of might and right. Pharaoh with
all the resources of a mighty empire behind
him. was arrayed against a weak Hebrew
mother. Yet this lone woman in her time
of -trial was not left defenseless, for God
was on her side as He is ever on the side of
mothers. He protected her, and Miriam un- _
til He providentially led the Egyptian prin-

hoped that the 1927 Quips and Cranks will
add in a measure to the success of the year.

cess to adcpt tne child. '
(Continued on page 5)
