A

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 31, 1927

AS THE ATHLETIC
EDITOR SEES IT

BY RAYMOND LAKE

|
|
|
|
|

The recent announcement that the golf |
team has arranged for a match with the
strong Georgia Tech team may be of more
significance than would at first be apparent.
When the announcement was made that the
football team had arranged for games next |
year with several larger and stronger teams,
it was received with great applause. Of
course, golf is nothing like as popular a sport
as football, but any act which tends to
broaden the athletic relations of Davidson
should be applauded and encouraged. Under
the present conditions, the things which put
a college on the map are to a large extent
its athletic teams. The championship foot-
ball team put out by “Monk” and “Tex”
this year has given Davidson a flying start
toward better athletics, and if that old Wild-|
cat Spirit is kept going in proper shape, it |
won't take long to get on* top.

|

The Wildcat nine started off the season |
right by winning over the Oak Ridge team |
in the initial game last Friday, but fell back
somewhat in the second game Saturday. The

team has not yet learned to work together |.

as a unit. The pitchers both did good work |
Saturday, but they couldn’t win the game by
themselves. A large number of errors were
made, and the lack of team work was pain-
fully evident. The second game of the sea- |
son, however, is a bad time to try to judge |
any yam. Whén Monk has had-a little more |
time to work with his men, a great deal of |
difference will be noticed. This is the first |
year he has had a chance to work with some |
of them, and there is yet room for lots more |
development.

The track meet last Saturday with V. M. |
I. revealed, or rather emphasized only too
plainly, the well-known fact that the local
track team is weak in the field events. If
the team was as strong in these events as it
is in the dashes, the season would undoubted-
ly be an extremely successful one. With
Curry, Goodykoontz, Flynn, and Kell run-
ning in the dashes, the local team will be able
to win in these events over most of the teams
to be met. In the meet last Saturday at least
one first place was lost on account of in-
juries on the team. If Curry had been in
first-class shape, first place in the 100-yard
dash would in all probability have been won
by Davidson. The team is also weak in the
distance runs. The best that the men in
these events could do was second place.
These men will improve as the season goes
on, however, and this part of the team will
be built up and strengthened quite a bit.

The Freshman nine has developed quite a
bit in the last week under “Monk” Mattox’s

competent direction. With the exception of |.

shifting Odiorn to first base, no changes
have been made in the probable line-up.
Odiorn seems to be more at home at first
“than at any of the other positions, and should
develop into a first-class first baseman. John-
son has been shifted to the outfield, and is
showing up good in this position. Several
pitchers, among the most promising of whom
are Henderson, Kugler, Hampden and Dob-
bins, are doing good work and look good for
varsity material next year. “Chic” Williams
is still showing up good at catch, and he also
should make a good addition to the varsity
next year.

Some time ago there was some talk of
having a fencing team at Davidson. The
idea seems to have been almost forgotten,
however, and the interest of everyone seems
to have turned toward track and baseball.
It is natural for the most interest to be
given over to track and baseball, but a fenc-
ing team would be a fine addition to the col-
lege. Fencing is a sport which not only
develops a personal physically, but also gives
him more self-confidence, makes him more
alert, and makes him much quicker. It is
certain that meets could be arranged with
schools having fencing teams, and it would
be a mighty fine thing if some one who
knows something about the sport would or-
ganize a team and arrange some meets.

Another sport which should be given more
_ attention at Davidson is boxing. Captain
Elkins is an excellent coach and could build
NE up as good team if he could get better support
_ from the student body. A boxing arena has

built near the barracks, and
urnish an incentive for more

Local Track Team Suffers Overwhelming Defeat
at Hands of Strong V. P. I. Team in First Meet

Oak Ridge Wins Second

Game from Wildcat Nine|

In the second game of a two-game series,
the Oak Ridge ball team held the Wildcats
to three hits and four runs to come out with
a 10 to 4 victory.

Oak Ridge piled up a big lead in the third
and fourth innings afd  heldit safely
throughout the whole game. Errors, wild
pitching, and poor co-operation gave Oak
Ridge nine of their runs. Davidson came
back in their half of the fourth with a rally
which, however, fell short.

Meadows pitched six innings against the
Oak Ridge hitters and held them to three
hits. He relieved Cathey after the third
inning and pitched the rest of the game.
Many errors in the infield, weak hitting,

}and poor team work was shown on both

It must be remembered, however, that
the season is just getting under way, and

sides,

| there is yet time for a great amount of im-

provement,
Box score and summary :

Oak Ridge ABR H POA E
Randissyeeccucusunecos. Cabal () (0)
Gray, cCiseiss caaseslces 6 4 (at (0) (0)
DURKAM lb soceseseeSce (Vee ef AV LAY «I
erred) sth kokcsecs 2c Sg} Ihe
HOWandieoD occcesscces Oslo 02.42000
RIGhCe) elicsess a saucose. 3 One 4 200)
Goodson. 2be sae sesces se 4001 60
BentON Ore ceseceoloes 4016 0 0
Wihiteiap. secvssceseosds Sol 0 or0

MROMISe sro Souk cose 33 10 8 27 11 1
Davidson ABR HPOA E
Woodham, 1b ----+---- 2008 00
Davistertcee. eacctee ose 401000
Ratehtord, If ss. -le see. 2 0° 0-3 0 1
Johnson, ‘cf ----------- 410300
Black cn oss sees Viol) feat 7
Dili 6b 222222 vescaee Bel eee)
IKRU@letieSSi voccesccc lS. CW) (a be Lesa be)
McAulay, 2b ---------- 1—0--0- 2-0-2
Glen 2b eseses sees 2 0°70) 1-10
Gatheyap rece scesecooi 10001 0
Meadows, p ----------- 100 0 3 0
*McConnell --------~--- 100000

Motal sie ee ae 29 4 327 9 6

*Batted for McAulay in fourth.

Score by innings: . RHE
Oak Ridge ~------- 105 400 000—10 8 1
Davidson ~--------- 000 301 O0O— 4 3 6

Summary: Three-base hits, White; sac-
rifice, hits, Durham, Ferrell, Héward 2,
Pierce, Benton, Ratchford; stolen bases,

Gray 2; base on balls, off White 9, Cathey
2, Meadows 3; struck out, by White 6, by
Cathey 5, by Meadows 2; hits, off Cathey
5 with 6 runs in 3 innings, off Meadows 3
with 4 runs in six innings; left on base,
Oak Ridge 8, Davidson 9; hit by pitcher, by
White, Meadows 2, by Meadows, Gray;
wild pitch, White; passed balls, Benton 2;
balk, White; losing pitcher, Cathey; umpire,
Brandon,

A wrist watch serving as an alarm clock
has been invented. A revolving unit with
protruding points that touch the skin serves
as the alarm .

good as fencing in developing self-confidence
interest in the sport. Boxing is almost as
and quickness, and excels the former in the
development of other qualities. There are
several good boxers in college, and others
could be very easily developed if an interest
in boxing could be worked up.

|

“Gobblers” Outpoint Wildcats More!
Than Thirty Points

CURRY BREAKS RECORD

Sims, Curry, D. M. Calhoun, and |
Goodykoontz Win First Places
For Davidson

Davidson was defeated in the first track |
meet of the year Saturday, with Virginia |
Polytechnic Institute. The score was 79.5 |
for V. P. I. and 46.5 for Davidson. Al-
though outpointed over 30 points, the Wild-
cats never lost the fighting spirit that hos
made them famous in every field of college
sport.

John Curry, running faster than ever be-
fore, lowered the college for the
two-twenty yard dash by two tenths of a
second to 21.8 séconds. The old record was
held by Captain Goodykoontz, who placed it
at 22 seconds,

V. P. I. took ten first places, eight second |
places,°and three thirds, and also tied for a
second and third place. Davidson took four |
first places, five second places, nine thirds,

record

‘| and tied for a second and a third.

; |
Due to a strong wind that swept through |

the stadium all during the meet the time for
the long distance events was slow, although |

the time for the dashes and the hurdfés was |
very good,

The four first places taken by Davidson
were captured by the following men: Sims, |
in the 120 high hurdles; Curry, in the 220; |

in the 440, The individual scoring for Da-|
vidson was as follows: Curry, 8; Goody- |
koontz, 6; Sims, 6; Frye, 5; D. Calhoun, 5;
Pinckney, Kell, and O'Neal, 3 each; Brown, |
2; and Flynn, Leftwich, Melton, Lincoln, and
Treveton, 1 each.

The summary of the meet follows:

100 yard dash—Montague, Tech., first;
Curry, Davidson, second; Flinn, Davidson,
third; time, 9.9 seconds.

120 yard high hurdles—Sims, Davidson,
first; Cowell, Tech., second; Brown, David-
son, third; time, 17.2 seconds.

220 yard. dash—Curry, Davidson, first;
Montague, Tech., second ; Goodykoontz, Da-
vidson, third; time, 21.8.

D. Calhoun, in the high jump; Goodykoontz, | -

Shot put—Grey, Tech., first; Lund, Tech.,
second; Leftwich, Davidson, third; distance,
40 feet 1 1-2 inches. j |

High jump—D, Calhoun, Davidson, first; |
Holzworth, Tech., second; P. Calhoun, Da-
vidson, and Beverly, Tech., tied for third;
height, 5 feet 5 inches.

880 yard run—Cooke, Tech., first; Pinck-
ney, Davidson, second; Cox, Tech., third;
time, 2:08.7. |

Broad jump—Brown, Tech., first; Kelly, |
Davidson, second; Melton, Davidson, third; |
distance, 20 feet 6 1-2 inches.

Discus Throw—Lund, Tech., first; Grey,

(Continued on page 3)

You’ll always find a well-
| equipped U-Drive-It Ford
at the right price at

Henderson’s Filling Station

DAVIDSON, N. C.

WHOLESALE

When You Need Candy
See Us

26 28 S. Cellege St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C

Varsity Nine Victorious
in Opening Game Friday

The Wildcat baseball team took the first
game of the season from Oak Ridge by a

score of 10 to 7. A victory over the Ridgers
| was practically assured when Davidson se-

cured two runs in the first inning. The game
was cinched in the fourth inning when the
Wildcats garnered five runs after having
pounded out four hits.

Oak Ridge led in the hitting, but Wells

was given excellent support, especially from:

McCauley, who handled six put-outs and
four assists without an error. Ferrell and

Pierce were credited with homers, while
Grey, Durham and Rand were credited with
itriples. For Davidson, Black and Dulin

check in triples, with Ratchford and John-
ston getting doubles, Ferrell, Oak Ridge,
and Black, Davidson, led the hitting, both
getting two hits out of four times at bat.

Box score and summary:

| Oak Ridge ABR HPOA
SHAW Cs sess secuLees aces y Vi Bias basi. baa)
RANG sSiacscvusaucoesLe tes 4 11 3 °0
Greyeitiescs cebes le sseeee be ale ty
Winall Deseseceeeceusee 32. 110520
Mentillericse ses Pees eLS Qe 2 1G
Hammond, 3b ------------ 6} (al ib)
Rigrce lives acu woos oS 4 tle 3210
(GOOdSOne2b s22ceveeseaees 4010 4
Betton, hh esa see eeu ece 20000
Bowman) DP covscte so csse oe 20001

Motalsvsosu esses 35 7 9 24 10
Davidson ABR HPOA
WOOdHatt  cucennssoencaunon 42100
DAVISH eoeus scree cow eck ous JS} il (i) (8)
lWRatchfotrd: se222. cnescse=- Alea 40
JONNSON eouce cess laces of W ib oal i)
Blacks fowetescecessepanse® Bel AZR08 0a)
DUD Ness se se eeees sos Ess cs Jersey Kes) Neti) 7}
Mittlejohn csoce-suessass 3 00001
Wigletwesecsse ous avoveoas 4100 °5
MéAuley 25-25-22 cc cases 3005 4
Wrelistieoe shoe ote oe ee et 3 1°00 5
MMEadOWSiceccecn cen ceases 00000

Motalsvsese ss sesec eee ss 13 10 7 27 18

*Batted for Dublin in sixth.
(Continued on page 3)

Match With Furman
to Open Net Season

The tennis team will open the greatest
schedule in the history of Davidson College
with Furman on April 5th. Furman showed
exceptionally good form at the S. C. state
meet last year and will most likely have a
strong team again this year.

Dick Carr, star varsity man on the David-
son team, will be out of this first match on
account of his injury. He is, however, rapid-
ly recovering and will be able to practice in
a few days. It is hoped that Carr will be
back with the regular team all the other
matches of the year. The team-for the com-
ing week will be composed of Captain Mc-
Cutcheon, John Roddey, MacAlpine, and
Alexander,

On April 21st the team will make a two-
day trip to Chapel Hill to play the Univer-
sity of North Carolina. Shortly after the
Chapel Hill game, the team will make their
big Northern trip. Carr and McCutcheon,
national inter-collegiate doubles champions of
North Carolina, will be paired in the doubles.

The Northern trip is to be one of the big-
gest, trips ever made by a Davidson athletic
team. Some of the best tennis players in the
United States will be met, including Colgate,
Bethlehem, George Washington, Penn and
Cornell. The trip will cover about a week’s
time. McCutchen, Carr, Roddey, MacAlpine,
and possibly one other will make the trip.

The Freshman tennis tournament is to be
run off as soon as possible. The contestants
have been seeded according to the showing
they made in the tournament held last fall.
The first rounds of the eliminations is now
under way and will be completed soon.
Haverstadt, Johnson, Apple; and Kopp, who
showed up on top in the fall tournament, are
expected to take the lead in the present
competition.

A North Carolina trip for the Fresh team
has been arranged which will include con-
tests at Chapel Hill, Duke, Greensboro, and

(Continued on page 6)

——<—<—<—__ —

COLLEGE JEWELRY

Watches and Clocks :

Sheaffer Pens and Pencils

|

Seal Stationery

Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach
’ and Goldsmith

Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Drinks

In Statesville We Are Located
TO SERVE YOU

Candy
Austin Candy Shop

Statesville, N. C.

Smokes

Charlotte, N. C.

banking needs.

Government.

R. A. DUNN, President :
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President

The Commercial National Bank

Has stood the test of time and stands ready

4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit. -

Trust Department under supervision of United States
Make us your Executor.

Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.
OFFICERS

FULLER HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier

_ Founded 1847

to serve your

LW. STEWART Cashier and Trust Officer
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Cashier
M. T. WILLIAMS, Asoistant Cashier

