4 ed

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 6, 1927

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College ©

Fotered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mai] Matter of
the, Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editer by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknewn source will not be published

BOYCE MARTIN Editor-in-Chief

M. P. CRAWFORD -. ..--Business Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
A. N. IWEIN@ oitren scccuaacsssacacouenuuel, Managing Editor
W. K._ PRITCHETT .--. ---Managing Editor
J. B. MORIARITY ----. ---Managing Editor
Cc. R. WK ty GeeOGUsRUk LELasolbbebanslaccucoae Athletic Editor
W. L. LINGLE .--- .--Associate Editor
F. C. WITHERS -. .--Associate Editor
T. T. JONES ___. ---Associate Fditor
LD, Ch WADSWORTH: 2... ccc cc cn icnccuonsesese Alumni Editor
Rit Cit GRADY) coesusdesccub cUeacouuubecsesses Exchange Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
R. S. AHESRETHY bavessueune Assistant Business Manager
S. J. LISON....-- ..-Assistant Business Manager
W. we owe LL. --Assistant Business Manager
by; Ur HreecOn, em sae Subscription Manager
B. DICKSON... _.-Ciroulation Manager
S. W. MORRIS...-. wa ncene gh -n------S0licitor
W. B._ McGUIRE .---Solicitor
HRVHMOGA DL Wisc letss ie acccotessatiecoleececkicectscce Solicitor

Reporters’ Club

eae

TT OIMGRT LL

POLITICS ET AL

With football victories, championship
fights, golf and tennis tournaments filling
the limelight, Mr. Vox Populi and the va-
rious members of his family including John-
ny College have about forgotten that open
season in the political world is just around
the corner. A great schedule has been ar-
ranged among the politicians for the com-
‘ing season and various dopesters are all up
in the air as to the outcome of the various
encounters. The withdrawal of McAdoo
and Coolidge, the fight of Smith and anti-
Smith, and the contests of various other
would-be presidential candidates has been
discussed at length. It has been rumored
that various bets have been posted as to the
length of the Democratic convention this
year. Odds are eleven to one that it will
not approach the record set in 1924 by the
best winded men the Democrats could pro-
duce.

At present, Coolidge’s appointment of his
college mate, Morrow as ambassador to
Mexico has been most under discussion.
Many have argued violently that since Mor-
row is affiliated with the Morgan interests,
his opinions and reports will be biased. But
that is very probably what Coolidge wanted.
The Morgan syndicate holds the outstand-
ing debt of Mexico and the progress and
prosperity of Mexico. is something in which
the Morgan interests are‘vitally interested.
Morrow being affiliated with Morgan will
work towards such a goal, and it is this goal,
a stable government in Mexico, that Amer-
ica has wanted for a number of vears. And
since Morgan can profit only when Mexico
prospers, it is certain that Morrow will con-
tribute all that he has to see such a condi-
tion exist in Mexico.

The big encounter on deck, and the con-
test which many have forgotten in the ex-
citement of other fights, will be the attempt
of Smith and’ Vare to be seated in the sen-
ate. The Smith case is comparatively the
more simple of the two. In this the ques-
tion of expenditures and also the question as
to who shall contribute towards the cam-
paign expenses of candidates is also at
stake. The Insull interests have frankly ad-
mitted that they have contributed to the
campaign which Smith ran in Illinois. But
this does not prove anything. There will be
quite a few senators who will question the
tight of the senate to rule that the repre-
sentatives of a state are unworthy of being
seated in the senate.

The Vare case runs a little deeper. Dur-
ing, his campaign for senator and during the
election, his machine has been charged with
certain irregularities at the ballgt boxes,
both inthe primary and in the general elec-
tions. And of course there is also the
charge of enormous expenditures of outside
-interests, To fully investigate this case
~ would require months, and it is foolish to

ion thro "Pennsylvania at each pre-

» think that the senate will conduct an inves-_

cinct and county. In the Philadelphia city
' elections during the past week, the Vare
machine ran true to form and their candi-
dates were elected. Reform elements were
| at work and the majority of the Vare co-
horts was cut down considerably, but still
their candidates were elected.

.It is a question now as to how the senate
will deal with the candidates for seats, there
are a number of ways by which they may be
contested and the various ways determine

. the number of votes it.will take to eject the
two from the senate. Whatever way is
chosen itJg certain that the Republicans will
be present to see that their interests are pro-
tected. The Republican majority is rather
small and the loss of these two men might
cause the loss of the majority in the senate
by the Republicans. And it is plain that this
will not happen as long as the Republicans
are in power in the senate. They would be
foolish to lose their majority by ejecting
two of their members.

So it seems fairly certain that Smith and
Vare will remain in the senate. It does not
seem likely that they will ever be ejected
in the first place, and then if they are, they
will be reinstated by the people who elected
them, so there you are.

All in all, the schedule of the political sea-
son seems to be particularly good. Of
course all the dope may be upset sooner or
later, but-no matter which way the wind
blows there will still be plenty of room left
for discussion and speculation. From a per-
sonal viewpoint it would seem that the Re-
publicans will win the pennant under the
capable leadership of Capt&in Coolidge.

A GLORIOUS VICTORY

Enough praise cannot be heaped upon the
heads of those fighting Cats who gained
such a glorious victory in Gainesville Satur-
day. Under adverse weather conditions, on
a strange field, and outweighed at every
point they put up a wonderful figh®™nd
emerged victorious despite all the dopesters
predictions, It must be admitted that it was
quite a surprise to all Davidson followers,
since. very few expected victory for the Red
and Black. But this adds rather than de-
tracts from the glory which is due the team
that completely turned over the dope bucket.

To those famous coaches of ours, Monk
and Tex, must also be given much praise.
From exceedingly rough and raw material,
they have filled up the ranks left vacant by
graduation ‘last June and have welded a
smooth, finished machine.

It is foolish to make any predictions so
early in the season as to Davidson’s pros-
pects for the rest of the year, but it is cer-
tain that the team will not be any discredit
to the institution. The state championship
is sill along, long, way off and Davidson is
doped to be a long way from it at the end
of the season, And it may turn out that
‘way, but not without a struggle from Da-
vidson,

The student body must femeniter that it
is its duty to remain behind the team whole-
heartedly. It is quite easy now after two
victories, the team is fine, the system is ex-
cellent and all that. But every student must
remember that all days will-not be as balmy
and bright as today. And it is the backing
the team receives when outlooks are gloom-
iest that count in the long run,

Open Forum

(Note: This department is conducted by
the editor for the benefit of those who wish:
to express themselves in the column. It is
left to the discretion of the editor as to what
,articles will be printed, due to various. rules
and regulations under which The Davdison-
ian is directed. All articles.must be signed
and turned over to the editor before 7 :00

p.m. Money.)

HOw ABOUT V VESPERS?

Last. Sunday night at the vesper services
there were approximately a hundred and
fifty people present to hear the speaker. Of
these, twenty-five or thirty were either fac-
ulty members or townspeople. There was
barely a hundred students there, hardly one
sixth of the student body. There was no
particular attraction away from’ the Hill
this week-end to draw the boys away, the
only reason for the non-attendance being
that the students did not want to come to
vespers. |

It hardly seems possible that the students
deliberately ignore the only service which
is strictly for the students. - There is all
kinds of discussion against compulsory
church attendance and yet the boys seem to
refuse to come to their own service of their
own free will. ;

The large majority of the student body.
come from Christian homes and it is cer-

tain that they have not lost all of their val-

Ollapodrida |.

CHAFF

With the opening of the regular fall session at |
the University of Chicago, The Phoenix, student |
humorous publication failed to make its appera-
ance. Investigation showed that-the publication
like its fabled predecessor was dead, University
authorities had banned its output. In the words
of the faculty The Phoenix had too many refer-
ences to gin, girls, snappy sketches, and general
dissipation. It was not typical of student life,
Which it claimed to represent. The Chicago pub-
lication is not alone in its content. It is merely
representative of the majority of such magazines
and its extinction is a: deathknell to its prototypes |
throughout the collegiate world. Postal author-
ities have applied their standards to the supposed-
ly conservative wit and found it unfit for the
mails, as the University of Virginia editors dis- |
covered last year with one issue of the “Reel.”

Last week at the international air races in Italy: |
one, Lieutenant Webster, of the British forces
arose in his plane and circled the course at an
average speed of 281.5 miles an hour or one mile
every thirteen seconds. The former record of
246.0 an hour was held by an Italian, When Mr.
Webster reached the ground after his amazing
flight he was partially paralyzed, the air pressure |
having driven a good part of the blood from the |
upper part of his head. Men will continue to
increase the speed of their machines, but speed |
will continue to be useless to all practical pur-
poses until some protection from the air pressure
can be discovered. Nevertheless such competition
develops powerful motors, aids progress. |

« Captain Roald Amundsen, Norwegian navigator |

of aerial parties to the North Pole recently pre-
sented his autobiography to the general public
in book form in a rather unorthodox manner he
spends almost an entire chapter warning the pub-
lic against giving too much of the credit for- the
expedition in the Norge to his mechanic Nobile,
who it seems has-tri€d to share too much of the
glory with his egotistical employer. According
to the narrative Nobile secreted a large number
of Facist flags on the machine and upon reaching
the pole unloaded armfuls of them into. the icy
wastes below, while the leader of the expedition
had to content himself with the dropping of a
single small Nerwegian flag. Captain Amundsen
should be too great a man to indulge in childish
squabbles, |

According to official reports Ford will not be
able to place his new car on the market until De-
cember, giving his competitors a few months of
grace. In anticipation of its arrival General
Motors stock has: dropped off and will continue
to drop. On a recent trial spin across Michigan
four new Fords “disguised” as Gai ancestors
sped across the state, covering six hundred miles
in one day and the last sixty in less than an: hour.
One wonders that the population did not suspect
the hoax. 9

Ad interim Ford dealers wait, check over their
dwindling funds, hope for quick production. Few
cars have been sold since April, none since the
first of July. Mr. Ford expects them to maintain
support through the sale of parts to the ten mil-
lion old models now in use, but dealers have found
rough sledding and only slight sustenance.

|

Rear-Admiral Magruder, commander of the
idle navy yard at Philadelphia, openly denounced
the internal operations of the Navy Department
by means of the Saturday Evening Post last week.
Said Admiral Magruder, “The United States is
getting a $200,000,000 navy for $300,000,000 annual-
ly.” Red tape and incomplete demobilization after
the war were blamed for the loss. Secretary Wil-
bur, of the Navy Department reprimanded Ad-
miral Magruder for such a publication without
his sattetion, which is a rule of the service, but |
offered to investigate. Egged on by news-
paper men the Admiral defied the powers that be
to oust him from his position, because of his
truthful accusations. The cauldron has settled to
boil again in a few weeks when official action is
taken. One is reminded of former Colonel Mit-
chell and his airplanes. The question might be
raised as to whether it is honorable for a publi-
cation to seek such an article from a subordinate
official as “The Post” must have done.

uable training in this short time. And it
hardly seems likely that the men of David-
son would refuse to support their own or-
ganization. And yet this seems to be the
case in regard to the “Y” vespers.

Next Sunday night a nationally known
speaker will be here, making a special trip
from Asheville just for the opportunity to
speak to Davidson men. To have him talk
to a half-filled hall would be a deliberate in-
sult. The man’s reputation ‘alone should
pack the house—and everyone is certain be-
side that they will hear an excellent talk.
It would be tragedy if the Davidson stu-
dent body should. fail in the one enterprise
upon which the very foundation of the
school is laid. We'll need six hundred men
up there next Sunday night, how ’bout it?

‘. Some mistake somewhere,

(Note—The following is a monologue over-
heard Saturday afternoon.)

Someone around here ought to invent a machine
to keep you entertained of a Saturday afternoon.
Too hot to play golf, too much energy to play
tennis, no money to go to Charlotte. But they are
having a play- -by-play report at the gym. Might
as well go down for that—hate to hear about the
Wildcats gettin’ beat though.

Quite a crowd down here, ought to be making
plenty of money—more coming in every minute.
Ought to have a cheer leader to help things along
a bit, No reports coming in yet, might as well be
yelling as doing anything else. Platt ought to
print larger, can’t read who is starting for David-
son, and who cares about who is going to play
for Florida. “Davidson team came on the field
five minutes ago.” Well, we are about to get
started. (Lapse of ten minutes). Can’t be much
longer now. (Lapse of five minutes). Here we
go now though,—false alarm, Branch is just try-
ing to get in communication with the other room.

At last, Florida kicks .off to Davidson. Things
look bad for the Wildcats. Say, who is that blonde
over there? How could the ball have gotten way
down there?: They must have skipped something
somewhere. Milton arrives, where has be been?
Says things will get started now. Five more plays
lost. Say that must have been some punt, niney-
five yards, I think that’s a lie myself. Look at
those Wildcats move down that field—here we go
gang—and Flynn carries it over! Davidson six,
Florida nothing. Ain’t that fine? How ’bout that
extra point? He should have gotten that.

Those Gators are fighting now, suppose that
team can’t stop ’em, On the three yard line—
and the half, hurrah forthe half. Never did know
before that the half could be so useful.

Might as well go smoke a cigarette now while
they are wasting time—Hey, wait, they ain’t even
stoppin’. How in the world did the ball get there.
here we are back in
the first half again. Who’s runnin’ this game any-
how?

“Harrison going down the field.” “Passed
thirty-yard line,” and Charley breaks through for
about ‘thirty yards. What in the world is the
hatter with Dick today? He “ought not to be
missing all of these goals.\.Must have broken a
toe. Wish this half was over. ‘

Say, that quarter Florida has must be dumb—
or else this thing is all wrong. That’s three dumb
tricks he’s pulled today. Hold ’em Wildcats.
There goes another one of those peculiar punts
for two or three hundred yards. They must be
having. another hurricane down there today.
Aain’t it the fourth quarter yet?

If we could only beat ’em! And Jake Wade
said this morning that they had one of the best
teams in the conference. Fourth quarter, boy I
hope it don’t last long... Wish Flinn could get
loose again. And Nisbet goes through for ten and
first down. Wouldn't it be great if we could
make another touchdown? ‘And there they go.
Dick has gone again, Measured it for first down
—and made it! Here we go—Grey goes over for
another score. Twelve to nothing. How ’bout
that?

That passing game of Florida’s is supposed to
be good ‘and they have started on it. Four min-
utes to play. Hold ’em Cats! Somebody has al-
ready started to ringing the bell. Wish that time
would pass. And the game’s over! ‘

If Jake Wade'll just keep on picking the other
team, we'll be state champions yet!

An editor seems to be an unnecessary’ thing at
Richmond University. The Collegian appeared
this week without any assistance from the editor,
since he failed to come back to school, and a very
excellent issue it was. Maybe editors’ won't feel
so important from now on.

“Grandmother Out for Mayor” says headline in
local paper. We knew that “Get your man” had
been the feminine slogan for some time, but we
didn't know that they had started bragging about
their prospects before.

We hope that the report that the Tahurami
Indians of the state of Chihuahua, Mexico have
staged an uprising is not correct. Think of the
trouble the telegraph operators will have with
those names. As“bad as the sport writers when
Paolina Uzcundin, or whatever his name was, had
his big fight with Delaney. From his name you
can see they called him the “Bascue wood-chop-
per.”

hie :

Such a relief. We at last have learned what
Coolidge meant by saying “I do not choose.” The
national woman's democratic club at Washington

‘says that he means he is not a candidate for the

presidency in 1928. He was automatically de-
prived sof their support when he issued such a
‘terse statement. They don’t believe in such
economy of words, evidently.

Well, the Florida boys can go home in peace
now and enjoy themselves fully the entire two
weeks for Christmas, :
