THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 24, 1927 .

CAMPUS SHEIKS SEEK

(Continued from page 1)
for the -time and place for the tests to he
made on the campus of such colleges as
show ‘an interest in the movement.

It is said that Lloyd Hughes, Larry Kent,
Jack Mulhall, Richard Barthelmess, Donald
Reed and other equally
luminaries are former collegians.

famous — screen
Ben Tur
pin and Larry Semon, according to rumors
are former students in the great old Séhool
of Experience—while Rudolf Valentino, the
man who was but ain’t no more, is now a
pupil at the great university, where students
can’t commit suicide.

All of which brings us to the point that
we started out to make, viz, The Davidson
ian is going té conduct a Movie Contest on
the local campus, the winner of which is to
be given a try at the Hollywood trip, pro-
vided the technical directors can be prevailed
upon to give him the “acid test.’ The con-
test will open at dawn, Saturday, March 26th
and will continue through sun-down Monday,
March 29th.

said funds to be used in defraying: the costs

Votes will cost a penny each
of the contest. Ballots will close promptly
at sun-down, and the winner of the local con-
test will be announced itt an early issue of
The Davidsonian,

Rally 'round your favorites, fellows. Help
All

There are no rules.

them win a place on the silver sercen,
students are eligible.
The ballot-box can be stuffed as often and
as much as one desires, and whenit is closed

or the votes cast some handsome of

Jaybirdsville will rise to sudden fame, Life

son

sized portraits of the contest winners in char-
acteristic poses will appear in The David-
sonian, Watch for a future announcement

in chapel, if

=

FELLOWS!

You'll always find a well-

equipped U-Drive-It Ford
at the right price at

‘Henderson’s Filling Station

DAVID-ON, N. C.

THEATRE

MOORESVILLE N.C.
WEEK OF MAR. 28-APR. 2d

Monday, Mar. 28. Love Makes
"Em Wild. A Fox production.

Tuesday, Mar. 29. The Tempt-
ress. A Metro-Goldwn picture.

* Wednesday, Mar. 30. God Gave
Me 20 Cents. A Paramount picture.

Friday, Apr. 1. Perch of the Devil
with Pat O’Malley.

2

Saturday, Apr. 2. Somewhere in’

Senora, with Ken Maynard.

Saoeoeeooococesecacd!

|

Town News in Game With Catawba

Captain Woodham Leads Team
mates in First Game of Season
and Wins by 7-3 Score

1oat

The Booklovers’ Club was, entertained ;
the home of Mrs. Richards last week. Mrs. |
Hamilton, who was in charge of the pro- |
gram, introduced Rey. and Mrs. Deans to the
Club, and they in turn presented «a program
Scottish

Coach Monk Younger seemed well pleased

of music and readings.

with his 1927 baseball prospects after their
ase SAE Catawba «College in a
Captain Woodham led

the Wildcat hitters through five innings to

recent victor yover

The Sorosis Club will be entertained nest) short practice tilt.
Friday evening by Mrs. Gearge Withers, at
her home. win by a score of 7 to 3.

The up
Mrs. Hunter is convalescing in Dr. Long's especially well for so carly in the season,
Cathey started on the rubber and_ pitched

whole Davidson’ team showed

Sanatorium, in Statesville, after faving un
irs. He was relieved

Hunter's condition is good and she will prob- by Wells, and he, gave to
Meadows pitched the last three

dergone an operation for appendicitis. fine ball for two innings.
:

in turn, way

ably be allowed to return home soon, Meadows.
innings of the game and showed fine form
Miss Mary Black has returned home from | Judging from the showing made, the ‘Cats
‘ will have no trouble with the pitching staff
this year.

Woodham led_at the Vat.

Mrs. Yoder, Mrs. Warner, Mrs. Hall, an Veodham, who was at-bat~only three fines.
Mrs. Gamble, of Hickory, N.C Ont of his
guests of Mrs. Lingle fee Thursday evening. three times at the plate he got a home ran
’ hit. Ratéhford he
safe twice out of as many attempts.

Charlotte on recovering from a nose opera-

tion performed in that city.

and Ratchford

. were the scored three of the team’s runs.

The guests were attending the last meeting @d a clean three-base

; 2 A oh oe) aye
of the Woman's Auxiliary of this your. Thats
and Black each connected with one.

is ; ; Both teams made a nuimber of errors, but
Che club women are interested in the an

of Mr.
Garland, who will lecture Thursday evening, |
March $lst, in Shearer Hall, on the subject,
“Memories of the Middle It
the book bearing this title that first brought

at this time of vear they are excusable. Six

nouncement the coming of Harlin

errors were chalked up against Davideod tor
the five innings.

order.” was Coach Younger sent in several substitires
in order to get a line on all his men. Joe
McConnell relieved Davis in left feld; Dulin,
MacAulie and Harrison divided the duties in

the hot corner.

Mr. Garland into prominence as a writer.

Grey came in as pinch hitter

Mrs.
daughter, Mts. James Douglas,

Monroe spent) Sunday with her

for Meadows.
The line-up for DavidsOnWas as follows:
wt. Woodham, Ist; Davis, rf; Ratchford, If;
Mrs. Martin has returned after spending Johnson, ef: Black, e: Dulin, 3rd; Kugler,
a few weeks with her daughter, Mrs. Currie, $8; Glenn, 2nd; Cathey, p; Wells, p; Mea
at Paducah, Ky. She stopped over, on her) dows, p.
return, at Lexington, Ky.,
ter, Miss Jean Martin, who is attending the

University of Kentucky.

to visit her daugh Greyghit for Meadows; MeConnell substi

tuted for Davis, MacAulie dor Dulin, Harri

son for MacAulie.
The Men of the Presbyterian Chureh held
their annual banquet last Monday night at Cc E
the Maxwell Chambers Hotel. At that time | urrent. vents
the officers for the ensuing year were e'ected,
South Carolina passed her fourth blue

The Presbyterian Church has unanimously Sunday with no arrests, Governor John G,
extended a call to Rev. Harry Moffett, o; | Richards had not signed the bill modifying

Birmingham, Ala,, to serve as local pastor. South Carolina's blue law Monday.

Tn a meeting of the Anti-Saloon League.
Miss Martha Hamilton spent the weekend | at Raleigh, Sunday, Thomas J. Heflin, of
Alabama, accuses “Al Smith and his crowd”
of picking North Carolina as the battle front

in Greensboro with friends,

Meml Ai c | for the wets. To this attempt .Heflin re
Members 1 sees | der “neuave Ries | aaa’ treT ad : ¢
aida aes os ee inguage DB plied: “We'll stand on the border line of
partment left on wirsday to attend a UWO"! Old Dixie and tell ’em you can't cross. this
day session of the State [ducational Asso | tine?

| of

ciation,

INGG:

The meetimgs were held at Raleigh, |
People continue to swarm to Weepah, Ne
twada. Although the land is already staked
far past the gold area, the lure of wealth

Dr. Lingle and Mr, Hamilton attended th
installation services at Shearer Chapel last

Mr.

still draws fortune hunters and sight seekers

Italy is again stirred by alleged hostile acts
Rev.

Sunday. Deans, a resident at) of Jugo Slavia. The British Government
present in Mooresville, and a native of Scot- | has joined Italy in a protest to Jugo Slavia
land, will assume the duties of pastor. Di ,

. of the hostile intention of Belgrade toward
Lingle preached and Dr. White, of Moores PAT hai al
ville, delivered the charge to the people.

BOYCE MARTIN CHOSEN

The Senior Class of the local High Schoo
was the guests of Miss Maude Vinson last
Monday night at a banquet in Statesville.

(Continued fram page 1)
he
hers of the Reporters’ Club, his excellent

Converse—“Oh! I had the most won-| work winning him the Golden Quill, He is
derful date last night. My Wofford ae vice-president of the Junior class, secretary

said that he’d love me forever and ever!” °! the Y. M. C. A.. member of the Student,
Queens—“Ah, men!” Council, and a member of the Sigma Alpha
; !

vear, was one of the outstanding mem-

Epsilon social fraternity. He belongs to a

MOORESVILLE, N. C.

MAYHEW’S
Where every effort is made to

eA Tito

And where $4.00 buys ticket good
for $6 worth of work

| J. T. EMBREY, Agent
BRIGGS ARRINGTON, TOM ADAMS, Assistants

number of honorary fraternities.

Both of the defeated candidates have like-
wise distinguished themselves in journalistic
and literary work at Davidson. W. L. Lingle
is just completing one of the most successful
terms as managing editor of The Davidson-
lian in the history of the publication. He
} was. one of the leading reporters on the staff
of the paper during his first two years, and
jlike Martin. of the coveted
/ Golden Ouill. He has served as an assistant
| manager of football, and as a member of the
| nresent staff of Sanity Rare, and the Junior
Speaking Program Committee. He is
| member Delta Pi Kappa
| journalistic fraternityl, Sigma Pi Sigma hon-
orary physics fraternity, and the Beta Theta
Pi social fraternity.

PHONE 240

is a wearer

a

of

Caldwell Withers is at present sporting
editor of The Davidsonian, editor-in-chief
of Sanity Rare, and a member of the Court
of Control. He attained a position on the
staff after two years of meritorious service
as a Davidsonian reporter, and following his
selection to wear the Golden Quill. He is a
member of Delta Pi’ Kappa honorary
journalistic fraternity, and of the Sigma
Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.

honorary |

Davidsonian Reporters

The speaker at the staff meeting of The
Davidsonian last Monday night was Mr. J.
P. Williams, professor of Accounting and
Dean of Freshmen here. While a student at
Davidson, he was editor of The Davidson-
Mr. Williams spoke on the history an |
purposes of The Davidsonian.

ian.

The Davidsonian was founded in the spring

of 1914, and met with serious opposition on
the campus by the members of the Magazine |

staff, who believed that
on their circulation. The purposes of the
paper were, first, to give the campus news.
and second, to give the town news.

Mr. Williams complimented the staff on
their splendid work during the past year and

stated that The Davidsonian had marked a
new step, in the fact that it stuck to two
mattoes: the first, to wee as much fun as

possible without
all the news it could get without prejudice.
He pointed out several instances of former
Davidson men who were succeeding in news-
paper work due largely to the training and
experience they received while working on
The Davidsdnian.

CHARLES McRAE WINS

(Continued trom page 1)

mour and Hill, resulted in the latter's clee-
tion, for the other vice-presidency.
Twowrvice-presidents were chosen and no
secfetary, which latter office, together with
the office of one vice-president and the pres
idency constituted the plan of former years.
This change in offices has been deemed ad-
visable by the Board of Control for prope:
reasons and will undoubtedly prove a success.
McRae, of the
class, is from Maxton, N. C., and one of the
leading men on the campus.
larly interested and active in the religious

a member rising Senior

He is particu

life of the student body, being.a member of
the deputation teams, and holding office in
the Ministerial Band.
president of the Philanthropic Literary So-
to

He is also past vice-

ciety, and related in many other ways
campus activities.

Dick Flynn and Bill Hill are members of
the rising Junior Class, and are from At
lanta, Ga. and Richmond, Va., respectively.
Both of these men are actively identifiet
with the religious side of Davidson, being on
deputation teams, but are also connected

Withother forms of campus life.) Flyan

holds the office of treasurer of the Eumenean *

Literary Society, is a member of the Gee
Club, the track and boxing squads and holds
the office of secretary and treasurer of the
Student Body for this year. He is affiliated
with the Kappa Alpha social fraternity. Hill,
besides holding offices in both the Minis
terial Band and Christian Endeavor Training
Class, is an outstanding member of the Pan
deinie Society.

WHEN A FRESHMAN NEERS
A FRIEND

(Continued from page 4)
mittee, the sophomores turn his coat inside
out, fasten his garters around his neck, roll
up his trousers, and make him tramp upon
the only thing that has made life worth liv-
ing up to this moment, his “pot.” No wonder
the percentage chart on homesickness is top
heavy.

Dr. Little was a first-year man upon the
Campus last year, and he felt a bond of
sympathy for the youth who comes from a
small school to a vast university. That
student cannot enter into the
spirit of the university and absorb knowledge
requiring the undivided attention of a mind
free the realization of the
president. With this fv mind he then de
termined that somewhere in the factory rou-

a
disconsolate

of cares was

tine of enrollment there should be am element
of human feeling. —The Michigan Ahonnus.

it would cut down |

malice, and second, to give

‘Wildcats are Victorious Mr. Williams Addresses 'Hamlin Garland to

: Lecture Here Soon

Hamlin Garland, novelist and dramatist of
international fame, will visit Davidson on
Thursday, March 3lst, to address the’ stu-
dents on “Memories of the Middle Border.’
He will appear at Hall at 7:30
o'clock, and the nature of his talk will be
chapters from his autobiography. He comes
here under the auspices of the college.

Shearer

In addition to this public address, he is ex-
pected to speak informally at Davidson on
, the afternoon of the same date, dealing with
reminiscences of English authors. He states
in a letter to authorities here that he will
Shaw, Barry, Kipling, and others
with whom he is intimately related.

! .
discuss

Mr. Garland is the author of many books,
some of them being: Main Traveled Roads,
Prairie Folks, *A Member
of the Third House, Crumbling Idols, Way-
Courtships, Ulysses Grant, Prairie
| Songs, Her Mountain Lover, Boys’ Life on

Jason Edwards,

side

| the Prairie, A Son of the Middle Border,
|The Book of the American Indian, The
| Trail “Makers, A Daughter of the Middle

| Border, and others,

aes ee 3
| A New One

Another poor Scotchman’s name was
added to that long list of unfortunates
who have joined the happy throng in the
land that’s free from financial worries.
This one died of ptomaine poisoning. Aft-
er reading an advertisement for lux, stat-
ing its excellent qualities as a non shrink-
er, he went home and friend his bacon
in it to keep it from shrinking.

Rev. S. T. MeCloy, 7°18," is doing
graduate at the Union Theological
Seminary in New York, his address being
507 W. 11th St.

post
work

Apologies to Tennyson
the spring a young’man’s fancy
Jlghtly turns to—what the girls have been
| thinking about all winter.

In

Playhouse Theatre

Statesville, N. C.

Most Perfect Theatre in
the Carolinas

EVERY SATURDAY
——sq0ws——3
3:00, 5:30 and 8:00

VAUDEVILLE

MUSICAL COMEDY
AND

~ PICTURE SHOW

PROGRAM

Happy to Entertain
| You

3

|

eeeceeoossoeoe
SCOOSSHSSHSSHSSHSSSSSHSSHSSHSSHHSHSHSSHSSHHHSSFSSHSSHSHSHSHSHSHSHHSSHSSHSSHOSSESSSOSHSOHSSHSSOSEEE

Drinks

w

In Statesville We Are Located
TO SERVE YOU ©

Candy
Austin Candy Shop

, Statesville, N. C.

T

Smokes

_ || Complete line of Wright

and Ditson, Spalding, Reach

and Goldsmith

Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.
fe ae CHARLOTTE, N. C.

