THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 13, 1927

ote Sport Talk -:-

News and Views of
Wildcat Events

- By Raymond Lake

Once again the Wildcats are victorious. It
just looks like as long as they keep that old
fighting spirit they can’t be downed. Some
were expecting a larger score to be piled up
Saturday, and had the weather not been so
unfavorable, it undoubtedly would have been
a little more one-sided. We've got no kick
coming, however. Due to the inclement
weather the game was a little slow, but the
Wildcats fought hard and did their bit.

~~

The next problem is Elon College. We
can’t afford to slip up and let the Elon eleven
do to the Wildcats what it did to the Demon
Deacons, After “winning the first three
games, it would be a very easy thing for the
Wildcats to get overconfident and let Elon
cause another upset this season like they
caused two weeks ago. It would mean quite
a bit to Elon to defeat Davidson, and there's

no doubt but that they'll be primed for a bat- |
tle royal Saturday: However, if Monk and |
Tex can’t keep the team from becoming over- |
confident, it just can’t be done, so there’
use wasting any sleep over the matter.

SS) 203]

_ Just as'in the first two games, it looked |
like they couldn’t stop Charlie Harrison. last |
Saturday. He broke loose repeatedly and
made long gains for the Wildcats. For
those ‘hearing the reports at the gym, just as
in the first two games again, those were ex-
citing timés when the reports came in that
Harrison, Grey, or Nisbet was on his way |
down the field. And those two times when |
Harrison and Nisbet got past the safety man
seemed to have another touchdown already
made! Ii the field had been dry, there is
every reason to believe that we would have
had at least two more touchdowns, one each
of these times when a touchdown seemed so
inevitable, and then the man carrying the ball
stumbled,

In the line, Melton, Laws and McColgan
starred. They broke through and threw the
Terriers for losses two or three times, and
so far as gaining over them was concerned,
well, that just wasn’t done. .The whole line
held and fought fing, but these three seemed
to be especially active. Hampton was kept
out of the game on account of a slightly in-
jured ankle which he received in the Florida
game, but the pivot position was held down
in great style by DeArmon and McConnell.
A few gains were made over center, but they
were few and far between, and we have noth-
ing to fear from this position.

Carolina seems to be throwing off the jinx
and starting out on a winning streak. The
Old Line of Maryland was no “crip” and the
Tar Heels came out on the long end of a
7 to 6 score. Well, we're satisfied for Caro-
lina to Win all up to the 12th of November.
On that date, however, we'd like for last
year’s history to repeat itself. State College
also did well last week. They played a com-
paratively weak team, but they came out 19
points ahead, and there’s no use running the
score up any higher than that. Duke, how-
ever, did not fare so well. The Blue Devils
have a powerful team this year, but the Gen-
erals were too much for them and came out
with a 7 to 0 victory,

The victory of Georgia over Yale last week
was another triumph of the same nature as
that of Duke over Boston two weeks ago. It
has been a comparatively unusual thing until
recently for a Southern College to triumph
over the large Eastern Universities, such’ as
Yale and Boston, but Duke and Georgia have
led the way and this feat is becoming a little
more common.

The Freshmen did not fare so well in their

_ initial game this year, but when we take into
consideration the facts that Oak Ridge

always has an unusually strong prep school

team, and. that they had played together be-

fore :this year, while this was the first at-

tempt for the Wildkittens, we realize that

did not make such a bad: showing after
: d beat the Blue Devil Fresh-

7 ago, and, all things being
think the Wildkittens did
rid and Foil seem to have

“for the Wildkittens,

eral uprisings.

Students Hear Reports
From Spartanburg Fray

Large Crowd Visits Gym to Hear
Returns

Davidson 12, Wofford 2! This was the
last and most important message received by
those who attended the play-by-play report
of the Davidson-Wofford game at the gym
last Saturday.

The Wildcat-Terrier mix-up took place at
Spartanburg, and it was not thought practi-
cal to run a+special train or busses there, as
it was one of the less important games and
also because of the limited amount of time
which would have been available to make the
trip. The cheer leaders hope to have a}
united migration of the Davidson student |
body to the State, Carolinay and other games, |
and wished to reduce the financial strain as |
far as possible in preparation for these gen- |

Influenced by these reasons, yet desiring
that the students and friends of Davidson
might, receive some of the same thrills as the
more fortunate ones who watched from the
stadium, arrangements were made as in the ;

served on the receiving end and announced |
the various plays.

which a miniature football field was laid off. |
The board, showing the amount of ground
gained or lost and the position of the ball, is
marked in different colored chalk so that one |
receives a fair idea of the game. Other in-
formation in regard to the game as well as
bits of humor served to fill in the intermis-
sions and to keep the large number who at-
tended in a receptive mood, A small admis-
sion fee helped to defray the expense of the
special wire.

Wildcats to Meet Elon
Players Here Saturday

The Wildcats, after playing three games
on foreign gridirons, return to Davidson to
mect Elon in their first home game Satur-
day. Elon seems to have a little bit of that
fighting spirit that will function after the
first trial,

North Carolina State's
Elon early in the season, e any real
spirit and fight could be eloped in the
little Christian team, Of course, the Wolf-
pack won. As much could have perpaps been
guessed, comparing the sizes of the two
schools.

After another week’s practice Elon came
back and succeeded in holding Wake Forest
to a scoreless tie. Regardless of the many
alibis on either side, the score remains evi-
dent, Wake Forest 0, Elon 0.

Davidson, on the other hand, has won their
first three games on the card. Their chances
to become highly elated and somewhat swell-
headed have been’ tripled. If anything loses
the game for Davidson, it will be that, but a
loss is not being contemplated by the Wild-
cats this year.

The strength of Elon is not to be belittled.
They have a team slightly heavier than the
Wildcats, and a rather speedy backfield.
‘There is no team that is always defeated, and
it is sure some one will come out the winner
in Saturday's game here.

ck’ met

CLUBS TO BE FORMED

(Continued from page 1)
ment the courses jin English with modern lit-
erature. Also so that there will be no waste
time in getting the most recent and best of
modern contemporaneous literature. Also
Professor’ Cumming pointed out the advant-
ages of this new club over the Book-of-the-
Month Club, in that the members would get
the same advantages as the Book-of-the-
Month Club but with the added advantage of
a cheaper cost and wider selection of books
from which to. choose.

Although no definite steps have been taken,
the club is practically a certainty with only
a few minor details such as the keeping of
the books and the size of the club to

¥ =

Bl esas Leal

Davidson Football Team
Not to Play Army Next
_ Year, Says Final Report

Graduate Manager W. W. Wood
Issues Final Statement

DATE NOT SUITABLE

Authorities Hope to Be Able to
to Arrange Games in Future
Years

Davidson will not play Army in football
next year, according to Graduate Manager
W. W. Wood. The Army could offer the
Wildcats only one date, November 3rd, and
it was impossible to accept this date on ac-

| count of conflicts with games in North Caro-

lina. The matter was given a great deal of
consideration, and. correspondence exchanged
with the West Point authorities, but it seem-
ed impossible to arrange the contest.

For several weeks the campus has been

so as to permit the acceptance of Army’s

of a meeting between the Wildcats and such
a noted foe as the Cadets. Davidson has es-
tablished a splendid record in Southern grid-
iron circles, and, judging from this year’s
victories over The Citadel, Wofford, and the
University of Florida, Monk Younger’s war-
riors are going to kick up a lot of dust before
the curtain falls again. The approaching
games with Wake Forest, State, Duke, Caro-
lina, and V. M. L., will give a good idea of
the real’strength of the ‘red-clad eleven which
so often has thrown consternation into larger
and more experienced opponents.

Davidson, in playing-the Army, would be
forced to withstand a tremendous handicap
of weight and reserve material, but the fol-
lowers of the Wildcats have all confidence in
their team to put up a terrific battle against
any opposition, The Army would have any-
thing but a set-up, and Davidson would have
a chance to win, or at least hold their famous
opponents, and thereby make a name for the
college in the North. In the last communi-
cation received from West Point, the follow-
ing statement was made: “We hope that a
satisfactory date can be arranged at some
other time.” The fact that a game was of-
fered Davidson should be fully appreciated
by everyoneginterested in the college. It is a
distinct contpliment to the spirit and fighting
ability of the Wildcat, and the day will come
when that snarling Cat will carry the battle
to Army’s own backyard—for the honor of
Old. Davidson.

It is with great regret that we learn of ‘the
inability of the Davidson and Army officials
to arrange a game for next year. Such a
game would mean much to the Wildcats, and
would add much to the prestige of the Wild-
cats in the North. This would also be one
more connection .between Northern and
Southern colleges, and we hope that the
Wildcats and the Cadets will be able to meet
in the future. ;

BIG FIVE SCORERS
Player College Td, Ex.Pt. F.G. T'tl.

Jankoski, Duke ~__
Grey, R., Dav. .---
Adams, State --_-
Warren, State --__
Goodwin, State -__
Outen, State -_.__
Flynn, Day, ~----- :
Cox, W. F, ------
Ferrell, Carolina —_
Childress, State —_
Lepo, State
Ward, Carolina .__
Wearn, Davidson —
Connally, W. F. --
James, W. F. —---
McConnell, Dav.*_
Schuler, Carolina*_
. Buie, Duke
Kelly, Duke ______
Whisnant, Car'l’na*.
*Safety.

SoeooscooP KP eR eH Re He Re eR eM NNNN A
=F RP NNSAAARAAAAN

| judged from a percentage basis.

‘prominent citizen of Samson County,

nett

4i

Class Basketball Series
- to Start Monday Night

Four Teams Practicing Hard for
Strenuous Schedule

The class basketball series, which is the
leading interclass activity of the college,
opens Monday night, October 17th, with an

niors. Every team bids fair to give hard
battles and a good fight for first place.

The Freshmen’ as usual, are the dark
horses of the race, and not much can be told
about the material they will have until fur-
ther practices have been held. Under the
leadership of Ben Wilson, the varsity basket-
ball captain, they will probably be able to
put out a very good team.

Last year the Juniors copped the cham-
pionship, with the Seniors, Freshmen and
Sophomores following in the order named.
The two former years it was won by the
Sophomores,

The Sophomores are being coached by Ben
"McAuley, the Juniors by Pat Crawford, and
j the Seniors by Johnnie Kugler. Under the
| leadership of these experienced players some

Florida game to have the ‘plays wired back | @&og with rumors about the pending game. | foundations will be eee the 1927-28 var-
directly from the sidelines. Earnest Milton, | As soon as the students learned of the invi-| sity Resere Conse 3 Cures be iat
alumni secretary, was on the field to formu- | tation to play the Army, most of them were | change their habitat from the gridiron to the
late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue | heartily in favor of the’ game, and it was gen- | cage. :

erally hoped that the plans would formulate |

These games will be played on Monday,
| Wednesday and Friday nights at 7:30. Each

A special blackboard has been arranged on | Offer. It offered a rosy prospect to think | team will encounter each of its opponents

|in two games and the championship will be
| An ac-
| curate score of each of these games will be
kept and published each week in The Da-
vidsonian.

The following is a schedule of the games
to be played:
October :

Monday, 17th—Juniors vs. Seniors.

Wednesday, 19th—Sophs vs. Fresh.

Friday, 21st—Seniors vs. Fresh.

Monday, 24th—Juniors vs. Sophs.

Wednesday, 26th—Seniors vs. Sophs.

Monday, 31st—Juniors vs. Fresh. —
November :

Wednesday, 2nd—Seniors vs. Sophs.
Friday, 4th—Sophs. vs. Fresh.
Monday, 7th—Seniors vs. Juniors,
Wednesday, 9th—Seniors vs. Fresh.
Friday, 11th—Juniors vs. Sophs.
Monday, 14th—Juniors vs. Fresh.

Wildcat-Tar Heel Clash
to Occur at Chapel Hill

“It has been definitely decided to play the
University of North Carolina-Davidson foot-
ball game at Chapel Hill,” is the announce-
ment of Prof. W. W. Wood, graduate man-
ager of athletics at Davidson.

For the past few weeks there has been a
good deal of talk on the campus about the
probability “of changing the location of the
Carolina-Davidson game from Chapel Hill
to some other place more satisfactory to the
two institutions, This rumor was due princi-
pally to the fact that the Duke-State game is

However, no official proposal to change the
location of the game was ever made to the
Davidson authorities by the Carolina offi-
cials, though Professor Wood stated that
Davidson was glad to make any change sat-

isfactory to the University of North Caro-
lina.

T. J. Murphy, ’90, several times mayor
of Greensboro, N. C., withdrew his name
‘recently from the special recall election
in Greensboro, which he had entered asa
candidate for council. His withdrawal
was a disappointment to his many friends
in the city, who had looked for him to
finish the race as a successful candidate.

Friends of Dr. John D. Robinson, ’o8,
of Ivanhoe, will regret to learn of the
death of his father, J) W. S. j Robinson,
and
former state legislator.

i)

initial contest between the Juniors and Se- |

Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach
and Goldsmith

Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co
i CHAKLOTTE, N C ea)

OPPONENTS’ SCORES
Florida ...---- 33 Auburn ------- 6
N. S. State ----18 Clemson ------ 6
Vielen 32 Roanoke ------ 0
Dike ooos2cc5 7 Wash. & Lee --12
Carolina ------ 7 Maryland ----- 6
Citadel ------- 6 Chattanooga ---31
W. Forest --.- 7 Pres. Col. ----14

Davidson Freshmen

Play Wofford Here

After making a very creditable showing
| tast week in the first game of the season
against Oak Ridge, played in a lake of mud,
the Davidson Frosh are getting set for their
| first home game of the season against the
| Yearlings from Wofford, Friday afternoon,

: October 14th. The game will be played on

| Richardson Field, and will start at 3:30.

| Coach Maddox has been driving his
charges hard all week and they are getting
mean, going out after blood to erase the de-
feat of their first game. Since the David-
son offense did not have a chance to show
what it could do at Oak Ridge, Coach Mad-
dox has been ironing out rough places in his
ball-toting department, anticipating a neces-
sity of scoring a number of points if the
game with the young Terriers from Spar-
tanburg is to be won. Monday afternoon he
outlined to the team where they showed up
particularly weak in their first game, and
practice this week has been devoted to cor-
recting these faults.

Dan Goodykoontz, fast Freshman back-
field man, missed some practices this wees,
suffering with a twisted knee received at
Oak Ridge, and Thad Brock, guard, has
been taking things easy with a bad ankle.
Both are expected to be in shape for the
game Friday, however.

Wofford is sending a strong team up here,
if advance gossip has anything to do with it.
With the Red and Black rats putting every-
thing into the game against a very formidable
foe, an excellent game is guaranteed.

HONORARY FRATS

(Continued from page one)

day appointed by Omicron Delta Kappa as
Tap Day.

Sigma Pi Sigma, national physics fratern-
ity, numbers nine men on-her list. Seven of
these are Juniors and two Seniors. Three
prominent members of forensic circles were
claimed by Alpha Phi Epsilon, national or-
ganization, as three Seniors were chosen.
Sigma Upsilon, national literary, chose two
Seniors and two Juniors who have distin-
guished themselves as writers. Scabbard and
Blade, the leading military fraternity of the
nation, selected six members of the Senior
class for membership, Delta Pi Kappa, local
journalistic, bid three Seniors and one Ju-
nior, while Gamma Sigma Epsilon chose one
Senior and two Juniors who have done ex-
cellent work in chemistry. Omega Phi Al-
pha, local philosophical, selected three mem-
bers from among the two upper classes.

The invitations.jssued by the International
Relations Club cafl for the submitting of
papers concerning present-day political or
economic affairs within the next two weeks
by the 15 men mentioned on the list. Five
of these will-be selected. The Biology Club,
because of the nature of the organization,
selects its members after a certain amount of
work has been done during the year and will
issue bids at a later date.

The fraternities uniting in the Bid Day

to be played in Durham on the previous day.Fmovement and those men who were bid are

as follows:

Sigma Pi Sigma: R. M. Stephenson, G.
A. Fry, R. B. Hayes, G. W. Crawford, J. T.
Roddey, S. L. McCarty, J. L. Pope, Henry
Eli rt, and J. R. Kugler.

Alpha Phi Epsilon: P. J. Garrison, C. F.
McRae, and H. B. Arbuckle.

Sigma Upsilon: W. L. Lingle, R. A..Bog-
gess, W. B. McQueen, J. P. McKnight.

Scabbard and Blade: C. C. Trabue, J. M.
Akers, P. W. Walton, J. M. Gudger, R. S.
Lowrance, R. S, Link. ‘

Delta Pi.Kappa: T. T. Jones, W. H.
Bailey, R. C. Platt, C. R. Rowe.

Gamma Sigma Epsilon: J. M. Andrew, J.
T. Kerr, H. S. Davidson. ;

International Relations Club: P. J. Garri-
son, C. R. Lake, M. C. O’Neal, B. W. Dick-
son, W. L. Lingle, W. H. Bailey, C. R..Rowe,
J. S. Foster, F. A. Ratchford, J. M. Murchi-
son, W. L. Dumas, J. B. Morarty, T. E.
Hill, C. F. McRae, E. E. Brown.

e..
Os
.

