THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 19, 1928

=:

—————__}

Sigma Pi Sig gma, Physical Frat
Holds Convention on Campus

On Tuesday night, April 10th, Dr. Marsh
W. White, associate professor of physics at
Pennsylvania State College, gave an illus-

Wildcats Defeated

by Demon Deacons

trated lecture on “The Energetics of the *

X-ray.” The address was well attended as
delegates from five Southern colleges as well
as several hundred studerits and faculty
members were present.

Dr. White’s lecture followed a banquet for
Sigma Pi Sigma delegates at the Maxwell
Chambers Hotel. The lecture, which was
illustrated by numerous slides, portrayed the

development of the X-ray tubes from the!

days of Ronton to the modern Coolidge tube.

Declaring that experiments in which the en- |
ergy of the high velocity electrons in X-ray |

tubes. was measured furnished evidence for
the variation of mass with velocity as pos-
tulated by the theory of relativity, Dr. Marsh
explained the causes which led to a loss of
all except one ten-thousandeth of one per
cent of the energy originally ‘put into an
X-ray tube.

Mr. R. W. Graves, young Davidson alum- |

nus and retiring president of the fraternity,
presided over the meeting. He had prepared
a speech for the night but on account of lack
of time was not able to deliver it.

The following officers were elected at the
past meeting: C. C. Hatley, of Duke Uni-
versity, president; Dr. R. C. Young, of Will-
iam and Mary College, vice-president, and
Dr. March W. White, of Pennsylvania State
College, secretary and treasurer.

Prof. W., N. Mebane and Dr.
Douglass and the officers listed above com-

pose the executive council of Sigma Pi
Sigma.
On last Tuesday, Dr. R. C. Young, of |

William and Mary College, gave a very in-
teresting and profitable speech on “The Use
of the Vacuum Tube Oscillator in Making
Laboratory Measurements.”
tory tube is to supplant for accuracy the
Wheatstone bridge. Dr. Young did consid-
erable work along this line at Chicago and
at the present time he is using this tube at
William and Mary for the audiability range |
of the human ear. This instrument is cali-'
brated by means of the tuning fork and the
property of beats.

Most of the business of the meeting was
in change of constitution, ritual, and forms
for petitions, certificates, etc.

Fresh Netmen Hold

Spring Tournament

The tournament to select the men who
will represent Davidson on the Freshman
tennis team is being played off this week.
About 25 men are trying for the team, and
from this number four will be selected. So
far, the matches have been postponed be-
catise of rain, but they will probably be over
by the end of the week.

The Freshman material looks very good,
and a first-class tennis team will very likely
be turned out. Rusk, Lynn, Poe, Meacham,
Moffett and Hall are showing up especially
well at the practices.

The manager has received letters from
Carolina and from Winston-Salem High
School requesting matches with the Fresh-
men around May Ist. A trip is being plan-
ned which will include Carolina, Winston-
Salem High School, Oak Ridge, and prob-
ably Duke.

Local Officers Promote *
C.M.T.Camp Attendance

The officers assigned to the- Davidson R.
O. T. C. unit have been busy during the past
two weeks in boosting the C. M. T. C. camps
in this part of the state. The value of at-
tendance at these camps is being emphasized
by the government more and more every
year, and Captain Daugherity and his asso-
ciates have been working to see that this sec-
tion of North Carolina furnishes its quota
of young men.

Captain Daugherity has just returned from
a trip carrying him into Burke, Caldwell and
Catawba counties, where he has made a series
of lectures at the various high schools in the
interest of these camps.

Captain Elkins is putting his attention on
Rowan county, where he has: already made
talks in Salisbury, Spencer and China Grove.

Captain Otto, working in Lincoln county,
reached his quota without much trouble, do-

ing all his work through correspondence. |

Lincoln county has furnished quite a few
men to these camps already, so registration

_ was rather fast in that section. .—

re é . ; ah

J. M.|

This oscilla- |

The Demon Deacons from Wake Forest
College defeated the Wildcats in the first of
a two-game series here Friday afternoon by
the score of 7 to 3. A long triple by
“Phoebe” Phelps in the ninth with the bases
loaded spelled disaster for Monk's men,

Three runners, of course, eased across the |

pan, and a minute later Phelps came in on
an error.

“Doc” Kugler took the hill against the
visitors and was not scored upon till the
fourth, when two runs came over. The ’Cats
tied things up in the fifth, and from this
point the score varied, until the ninth inning

found the two teams again tied at three all. |
Kugler gave way, to a pinch hitter in the |

eighth, and in the ninth, the Deacons began
a determined attack on Hefideyson which;
coupled with Dulin’s error of grounder, re-
sulted in the winning runs.
Crawford led the hitting for the home boys, |
with Clayton and Secarboro ahead for the |
visitors.
to sew up the game in the seventh when, |
with the bases full, Johnson struck out and
Kugler flew out to center.

Score by innings: RHE
Wake ‘Forest -.----- 000 200 104-- 7 9 2
IDAVICSON soneceuecee 000 442 010-3 9 2

Batteries: Lanning, K. Joyner and Kuy-

kendall; Kugler, Henderson, Meadows. and
MacAuley.

wre

Masquers Present

; “Three Live Ghosts” was the title of the
| play presented by the Red and Black Mas-
|quers in Shearer Hall Tuesday night. The
drama was sponsored by the Junior class and
‘played by the Dramatic club in co-operation
with Mrs, Hengeveld, Miss Ruth Erwin and
Miss Elizabeth Thompson.

The play pictured the lower English class
life in London. Miss Erwin had by far the
superior part, while no little amount of abil-
ity was necessary for Crawford’s part. Mrs.
Hengeveld, who played opposite V. J. Guth-
rey, president of the club, had a leading part
in the play. Miss Thompson vividly por-
trayed the character she represented.

The cast was:

Old Sweetheart
Ruth Erwin.

Miss Woofus—Miss Elizabeth Thompson.

Bolton (American Detective) — Dick
Flynn.

Jimmie Gubbins—Stewart Meacham.

Spoofy—Martin Crawford.

William Foster (alias Bill Jones)—“Bud”
Cuthrey.

Briggs (Scotland Yard)—Riggs McCon-
nell.

Rose Gordon—Mrs. Hengeveld.

Benson—Bill Powell.

(Mrs. Gubbins)—Miss

The registrations for all classes are to be
completed by Saturday of this week, it was
announced by Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, the
registrar. The rising Sophomores were reg-
istered during the last three days of the past
week. The present week is occupied by the
registration of the rising Juniors during the
first three days and of the rising Seniors
during the last three days. No figures will
be given out as to the number registering for
next year until all registrations are complete.

It might be well to note at this point that
no-reservations for rooms can be made ‘until
a student’s registration for courses is com-
plete. All reservations for rooms are made
through the treasurer, Mr. F. L. Jackson,
and this matter will be attended to immedi-
ately after the completion of registration.

The registrar also announces that a course
not in the catalogue will be offered next
year. The course will be given by Professor
Cullum and will be a study of the apprecia-
tion of art. Professor Cullum has been giv-
ing a course this year in the appreciation of
music and the course next year will be some-
what a parallel of that one. Philosophy II
will bea prerequisite to next year’s course
and for that reason it will be open only to
Seniors,

Boys from this part of the state will go
to the camp at Fort Bragg, and from present
indications there will be a large number of
Davidson men there.

Johnson and |

The Wildcats lost a good chance |

Interesting Drama

NOTICE TO REPORTERS

As the new staff takes charge of the
news departments of The Davidsonian
a new policy in regard to news articles
handed in by the reporters will be in-

| augurated. Each article will be strict-
| ly graded. At the election of the Re-
porters’ club and at the appointment

of the staff next year these grades will
play a vital part in rating the ability
of the men. The men will be. graded
on a threefold basis. Neatness and
merit of the article will count six
points. Handing it in on time or giv-
ing reason on time for not filling ar-

‘ticle gets three points. Working in
The Davidsonian office on Monday
night will count one point, making a
total of ten points. The importance
of working in the office must not be
underrated by reason of the grade
given for such work. Consistent work
in the office and handing articles in on
time will play as vital a part in ap-
pointment will well written and
typed articles.

as

"SOPH DAY DATE SET DAY DATE SET

April 21st.

ing.

The date for the annual “Soph Day” pro- ly arranged as_ yet.
gram has been definitely set for Saturday, | t° the students, howev

Although there will be a Freshman track |
meet then, it was decided by the Soph Day | 8°", at which time the entire Glee club will | Sophomore year.
committee, consisting of 20 members of the | appear in concert, together with the sym- |
Soph class and of which Jim Hammett is | Phony and jazz orchestras.
chairman, that it would be better to have it |
then than on the week-end of Junior speak- |

Cham Staff tor Coming Year
Selected by Browne McQueen

|
‘Glee Club Renders
Concert at Badin

| Continuing their successful series of pre-|

| Sentations the Glee club appeared in concert
| at Badin on Thursday night, April 12th.
| organization was accompanied by both the
symphony and jazz orchestras, which gave a
pleasing performance.

The program consisted of its usual classi-
cal and light numbers, along with a couple
of novelties. As customary the Glee club
| played to a good house.

Leaving the campus about 3:00 o'clock in
the afternoon, the members planned to in-
spect the aluminum mills, as passes had been
obtained. This was, however, found imprac-
tical, and the club toured the site of the dam

highest in the country:

A trip to Statesville has been planned for
lF riday, April 20th, but has not been definite-
oh: particular interest

js the announcement
ith; at a final concert will be held in Shearer |
Hall about May Ist... This will end the sea-

| Dr. R. E. Abell, of Chester, S.C.

There will be exercises in the morning, | has been chosen by he ae County Medi-
afternoon and night at that time and, though | | cal Society to represent that <i camel at
nothing can be said of their nature, it is cer-
tain that they will be interesting, and enter- | Oren: Moore, classmate of Dr. Abell, al i

the state gathering in Columbia, S. C.

one of the principal speakers.

The |

on the Yadkin river, which is one of the

Following the annual spring elections, the
newly elected. editor of The Chameleon, W.
Browne McQueen, has completed the ap-
| pointments which establish the associate
editors that will compose his staff. The new
staff is as follows: .

Editor-in-chief, W. Browne McQueen;
short story editor, Rough A. Boggess; re-
views editor, James G. Johnson; essay edi-
tor, Robert Covington; poetry editor, Frank
Hall. In addition to the above staff, there
will be four or possibly five assistants. These
have not as yet been appointed and will prob-
ably not be finally appointed until the opert-
ing of the term next fall. The business staff
of the Chameleon is under the direction of
| the business manager, who was recently ap-
pointed by the Board of Publications of the
college. His complete staff has not been
given for publication at this time.

The associate editors of the staff, as well
las the editor, all members of the hon-
lorary literary fraternity, Sigma Upsilon, and
‘all from the class of '29. Rough A. Bog-
| gess was a member of the present staff of

the Chameleon, serving as essay editor dur-
jing the present year, after publishing a num-
| ber of his works in the magazine during his
He is a member: of Sigma
Delta social fraternity.

are

|
|

| Johnny Bachmar, '25, of Rome, Ga.,
| | cently tied the amateur golf course record at

Sedgefield, Greensboro.
‘| for the 18 holes.

| mark for that course

re-

His score was 70
The other holder of the
Tully D. Blair,
amateur champion of the Carolinas.

is

| taining to all.
|
|
|

jimmy-pipe.

me-to-it,

They say P-A.
is the worlds largest

seller

I DON’T doubt it, nor do I wonder why. Just
open a tidy red tin and get that full fragrance
of Nature’s noblest gift to pipe-smokers. Then
tuck a load in the business-end of your old

Now you’ve got it—that taste—that Lead-
Gee-how-I-like-it taste!
condition. Sweet’ as making it up. Mellow
and satisfying. Try this mild, long-burning
tobacco, Fellows. I know you'll like it.

_PRINGE ALBERT

—the national joy smokel

Cool as a

You can pay more
but you can’t get
in fi: fi ti
