4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 29, 1328

4

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.90 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editer by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

BOYCE: MARTIN: 25.0205. cccokeeus ccs Editor-in-Chief
M. P. CRAWFORD

A. N. BROWN Managing Editor
W., K. PRITCHETT Managing Editor
J. B. MORIA ging Editor
Cc. R. E Editor
R. A. Editor
Ww. L. Editor
Fc; Editor
da Wa Wye f Editor
L. C. i Editor
R. C. Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

R. S. .-Assistant Business Manager
8. J. ALLISON Assistant Business Manager
Ww. M. WEL Assistant Business Manager
P. hy GARRISON Ge s05 ces cceb os ae Subscription Manager
By Ws DIGRRUON cenccwnbesnapsansconakess Circulation Manager
S. W. MORRIS. licitor
W. B. McGUIRE Solicitor
By tis: MOOA UW iisicacassncpankoccsuncadeensens dadeseuaee Solicitor
REPORTERS’ CLUB

W._H. BAILEY...-----.--- President

Por bcd J Op Aire nese Vice-President

. R. GRAHAM -Sedfetary-Treasurer

. P. ANDERSO {

Ss. R. Oe i

A. T, EDELMAN Ww.

ALLAN FRE F.

P. B. FRY AAs,

E. 8. HEEFNER R.

R. F. JARRATT D.

R. W. KIRKPATRICK Ww.
i Z. V. LONG

al

EDITORIAL

A PREMATURE ADIEU

Due to the fact that the next issue of The
Davidsonian will be turned over to military
news and articles in honor of the inspection
that day, it was thought best to indulge in
a few farewells in this issue. It is always
customary for the editor to publish a state-
ment in the first issue he has charge of, in
order that he may outline the glorious
things he will do during the time he is in
charge of the publication. It is also cus-
tomary for him to write an article in his
last issue, enumerating the things he has
done, usually with no reference to his first
editorial. This will be somewhat the same
plan followed out in this article.

In regard to the actual. management of
the paper, the most notable change made by
the present administration was that of ap-
pointing three managing editors, rather than
one managing editor and two assistants.
These three positions and that of the sport-
ing editor were placed on the same plane in
order that no prejudices of the editor in
favor of one or another aspirant would be
evident. This has allowed the student body.
in general to know more of the capabilities
of the various candidates. As a result, we
believe that the election of the editor for
next year was cleared of bias and prejudice
than those of former years. .

The Peanut Parcher-was eliminated from
the regular weekly issue by the present ad-
ministration. In its place, a half page of
cartoons and jokes collected from the hest
collegiate humorists over the country has
heen run weekly. This has given the stu-
dents more real humor than would have been
possible otherwise.

From the viewpoint of the editor, the
main feature of the paper this year has been
the personal columns. Walter Lingle has
been the main contributor, being the author
of “Ollapodrida” and “Out of Bounds”
column. This work has been far above any
other contributions to this paper and is
worthy of much praise. Humor, serious dis-
cussions, untisual stories have all appeared
in his prolific writings. These clever articles
have been the, high spot of this periodical
throughout the year. Harllee Branch has
loyally contributed several very worthy
articles. Withers and McKnight have also
done.some work along this line.

It must be frankly admitted that any at-
tempt ‘to “crystallize campus opinion” has
apparently resulted in a failure. The re-
sults of some of the editorials cannot be
_ measured openly, but if they may be esti-

‘mated in proportion to the interest displaved
in editorials of a different type, they also
may be chalked down as mediocre failures.
The main reason for this may have been that

| the editor has discussed obscure or abstruse’

_subjects, possibly subjects in which the stu-
dents are not interested. Another reason
- may be that a very small percentage of the
Student body reads editorials, or fail to pay
them an ry do read ther

u

" past.

has been mentioned before that the editorial

policy of the paper is in the hands of one.

man, and he cannot be expected to hold the
viewpoints with which every one will agree.

In various collegiate journals over the
country, the editors and the firy journalists
insist on free speech and free press, without
intervention from the faculty. Davidson en-
joys this, the contents of the paper are left
largely to the discretion of the individuals
in charge. The faculty believes that com-
mon decency and respect for various tradi-
tions will prevent any thoughtless outburst.
This has been the policy of the paper
throughout the year. If there have been
any evils which can be corrected, an attempt
has been made to do so. But as in every
institution, there exist some evils impossible
to eradicate. It‘had$ not béen thought wise
to bring any of these evils into public light,
since no possible good could be accomplished
by’ such an action. If this is killing free
speech, we are glad to be suppressed.

There have no doubt been many criti-
cisms of the paper this year. We have real-
ized some and attempted to correct the sit-
uation if it needed to be so adjusted. At

other timés however, the criticism conflicted

with the opinions of the editor and after
some thought, it was decided that these
points would continue as they had in the
We have been wrong in some posi-
tions no doubt, but always the deciding
point in any argument was the best interests
of the paper and the~student body.

One of the main faults of the paper this
year has been the lack of student body ex-
pression in the Open Forum column. This
place in the paper is always open to signed
articles from any student on whatever sub-
ject he may choose to write, if that subject
is of importance to anyone’in the student
body besides the writer. The editorials have
not necessarily been the opinion of the stu-
dent body, and the Open’ Forum column is
‘open for Such a purpose. This failure can
be corrected only by the students -them-
selves. If the paucity of articles handed in
is an expression that the student body does
not care for an Open Forum and that they
do:not wish any opinions to be crystallized,
the staff,can do nothing. But this should
not be tlie case.

The editorial policies of the incoming staff
will be anounced in the first issue the new
administration edits. We. .can predict suc-
cess and wish them luck. The new editor
has proven his worth in three years’ work
under the supervision of others. We are
certain that he will be successful when he
stands alone. And with this prediction the
old staff nominally passes away.

| grounds,

. But it,

Open Forum

At their recent banquet the sophomores

r were timely reminded of the events of soph

day last spring and of their subsequent
actions. As the time when the day is usually
celebrated approaches it is well that each
member of the class carefully consider his
feelings of last year and regulate his con-
duct accordingly.

During soph day the freshmen were made
to entertain the upperclassmen with all man-
ner of foolishness. That night they were
the objects upon which a certain class of
bullies of the. upperclasses heaped their
abuses. The man who deliberately, violently
and continually trips one who is helpless can
in no way be acting sportsmanlike and bully
is the only name applicable to such a person.

That a class should receive such treatment
without resentment or open opposition .is
not reasonable. No class which has a spirit
would remain passive to such treatment.
Let us hope that every class at Davidson is
full of spirit. The sophomore class is cer-
tainly not lacking. No group of human be-
ings, unless slaves with spirit broken and
will cowed, would tolerate some of. the
action of last year without open resistance.
As a result of soph’ day the freshmen pro-
fusely decorated the campus and buried the
class of ’29. Tiwo-thirds of them were sum-
moned before the Court of Control and
about half of them disciplined.

For eight months the upperclassmen,
through the Court’ of Control and fifteen
rules as well as other means, do what they
think is “training” the freshman and _re-
moving his impudence. Then comes soph
day and every bit of pseudo-discipline’ which
might have been gained is broken down, As
a disciplinary act soph day is a failure. It
only gives a certain class of the freshmen a

feeling of justification in applying the same’

ordeal to the next class.

There are two divisions of action on soph
day—rough play and foolishness. The rough
play is not excusable on any possible

But one might justly say that a
life without a bit of occasional foulia =

Collegiate Comment

Out of Bounds

The band at Ohio State is producing songs
on phonograph records. It would be an
excellent idea if half the instruments around
here (which means all of the saxophones)
were restricted to an activity similar to this.
It’s so much easier to cut off a victrola.

At Colgate University six students are
earning part of their tuition for some psy-
chological experiments which are being con-
ducted there. Just as a matter of conjecture
we wonder how much of this sleeping time
is confined to the class rooms. If such a
system were inaugurated here, very few
would need to pay tuition.

At Boston. University recently 116 stu-
dents petitioned the dean to allow them to
play bridge between classes. The venerable
official rejected the plea. And another great
intercollegiate sport had its activities cur-
tailed by authorities.

College is just like a washing machine ;
you get out of it just what you put into 1t-—
but vou’d never recognize it. — Wesleyan
Argus.

Some of the good Baptist brethren have
risen up in indignation over the forming of
a Smith-for-President club at Wake Forest.
a Baptist institution. They declare that
they will not continue to support’ a school
which advocates political parties at that in-
stitution. We merely wonder what would
have been their reaction if the club had been
formed to support some candidate besides
Smith.

Beginning this mofith, the registrar at William
and Mary will send grades only to the students at
the first of the month. The parents will be no-
tified of the progress of their heirs only once a
semester. The “mistakes in grading” will be mtich
easier to explain then,

The librarian at Georgetown College has re-
cently made a’ ruling that women students must
use one end of the library and the men students

the other. This was done in an effort to create a
quieter atmosphere. No bright cracks about that,
Oswald.

“Arms and the Man Scores a Victory,” head-

lines The Spectator, of Mississippi Woman’s Col-
lege.. We are pleased to note that one male at

least has conquered the saeved: precincts of a

feminine institution.

President Brooks, of Baylor University, has reg-
istered a unique complaint in that he is disturbed
over the serenading of co-eds by the men of the
university. “Good ntusic wakes up the girls, and
bad music keeps.them awake,” states the worried
Prexy. The latter must have been what was
troubling him.

Princeton again leads the nation, this time, in
the matter of a prolific wardrobe. The average
student there possesses 5.2 suits and 2.3 overcoats,
which number leads all other institutions. (Note:
The fractions are computed o nthe basis of the
number of times clothes are worn by room-mates.)

Purdue’s $180,000 artnory was burned down re-
cently. We insist that it doesn’t pay to make too
many boys take R. O. T. C.

March Ist was set as general pay day for all the
classes at Gettysburg.College. All dues owed the
classes was to have been paid that day. Those
who did not comply were put on the “black list.”
If that had been done here, the expense for pub-
lishitg the delinquent undergraduates would have
equaled what they owed.

Spring training has recently been started at
Rutgers. Practices were begun on March 15th
and scrimmages started a week later. Candidates
here have something to be thankful for, that they
haven't another month to go through with.

The chess team at Gettysburg Colege began its
season last week by losing to the Albright aggre-
gation. Reports have it that exciting matches en-
sued. Well, someone has said that there was room
in some activity for everybody.

dull. Soph day can-be carried on and be a
success, even a greater success, without the
‘rougher side. With capable authorities in
charge a program could be arranged that
would be enjoyable to sophomore and fresh-
man alike. .. Following soph day last year the
freshmen voluntarily decided that the day
should not remain as it has.been. It is up
to the class not to excuse that resolution on
the grounds that it was made in the heat of

‘emotion and to continue in the progressive

program that it has so far carried out.

Senator Reed, that fiery, talkative, fighting, leg-
islator is touring this state this week to aid his
cause as a Democratic candidate for President.
People in North Carolina don't like Senator Reed
for the simple reason that the able man has de-
nounced President Wilson’s policies, not once, but
often. By opposing these policies the Senator has
rallicd Western Democrats about his banner. This
week by slinging mud at the Republicans he hopes
to bring‘ North+Carolinians under his. wing. °*

Until next June any number of Democratic can-
didates will follow in Senator Reed’s wake. All of
them will try to win our hearts (and votes)’ by
slinging still more mud at the Republican admin-
istration. Some of them will be wet. Others will

e dry. If they are dry they will denounce the

ts. If they are wet they will pledge themselves
to support the constitution of the United States

ithout mention of any particular clauses. If this
were New York the tables would be turned and
dry candidates would become reticent while wets
denounced the prohibition law. In June there will
come a showdown and one will emerge as the
Democratic candidate for President. At once he
will make a sweeping tour of the United States ex-
pressing now not his personal opinions but instead
pledging support to the Democratic platform _re-
gardless of whether it is in keeping with his per-
sonal views, or not. After that will come a
thorough campaign of all the doubtful states, New
York, California and the like and finally the na-
tional vote in November.

The funny thing about, all that is that neither
North Carolina nor any other Southern state will
have anything to do with it. The Statement seems
paradoxical but nevertheless it is true. Of course
there are plenty of voters in the South and most
of them will go to polls to exercise their right to
vote. In fact that is exactly where the trouble
lies. Party leaders know that the South will vote
and, moreover, they know that they will vote the
Democratic ticket. The South has voted solidly
for the Democratic ticket for fifty years and pres-
ent indications are that they may still be good
for another fifty. The result is that the dilemma
that a Southern writer so ably propounded in an
editorial entitled “The Plight of the South,” some
years ago. In short neither Democratic nor Re-
publican party leaders take any consideration of
the South in defining their policies for a campaign
or in making up their platform. The Democrats
know that the South will go to their side of the
fence even if they advocate the establishment of a
home for belligerent cats in every city of the
United States. Just as surely the Republicans
know that the South will oppose them even though
they wished to vote, a fifty-dollar bonus to every
Democrat in sight. Hence they advocate no
Southern legislation.

Is Senator Reed interested in the South? Not
at all. He hopes that he may capture the North
Carolina delegation at the Democratic Convention
after the favorite son battle has subsided. Does
he wish to enact favorable legislation? Not a
chance. After the convention he will oppose
Southern legislation even if North Carolina sup-
ports him at the convention, if need be. He is
not the only culprit. «Any other,nominee will do
the same. The South is sewed up and every poli-
tician in the country knows it. Truly the South is
in a plight.

No doubt you will suggest a Southernz-nominee
for President. If there were such a nominee he
might win but the Domocratic party will never
nominate a Southern son so long as the South is
solid.. What’s the use? Better hand that dis-
tinction, to some doubtful state. Some one will
venture to call my reasoning on that point by men-
toning Woodrow Wilson. Yes, Wilson was South-
ern born but he was a New Jersey politician.
Party leaders found a lucky combination of ele-
ments in his case. His Northern and not his
Southern distinction won him the place. To clinch
the argument consider Carter Glass of Virginia,
an able senatorial leader, a presidential candidate
at the last convention and one who received not a
single vote outside of the solid South.

And yet in the midst of its plight the South is in
a position to control national policies if it so de-
sires. For let the South reverse its party affili-
ations for one year and both Democratic and Rep-
ublican leaders will grant every concession either
to win its votes permanently or to bring it back
to the fold. My father is a Democratic; my grand-
father was a Democrat and I dare say that his
father was of the same party if he ever came in

" off of the farm to vote. Naturally in Presbyterian

style I am predestined to become a Democrat.
However, I don’t think I shall. Rather I intend to
vote the Republican ticket until the South comes
to break its phalanx. After that, if I chancé to .
still be alive, the world will be mine in a little
way for I will know that even the mighest of
party leaders will outline their policies to suit me.
Most of the readers of this column are in the
saine position . If you want to have a little say as
to what goes on in this country you had best fol-
low the same program and become a temporary
Republican. :

W. L. L.
