BLESSED is the man who,
having nothing to say,
abstains from giving us
wordy evidence of the fact.
rge Eliot.

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

THE DAVIDSONIAN

GREENSBORO GAME
GIRLS!

Vol. XVI

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.,

NOVEMBER 8, 1928

No. 8

DEBATE SCHEDULE
INCLUDES STRONG
AND VARIED TEAMS

Davidson Debaters Undertake
Most Extensive Campaign of
Last Several Years Among
Southern Colleges

TRYOUTS IN DECEMBER

Debates With Agnes Scott and
Randolph-Macon Are Planned

According to W. L. Dumas, president
of the Forensic Council, a debate ha re-
cently been arranged with Birmingham-
Southern College, of Birmingham, Ala.
This debate is to be held here April 18,
at which time the opposing team is mak-
ing a tour of this section, The subject,
although not definitely known yet, will be
an official question of the Dixie Debating
League, and the winner will be decided
according to the American plan, that is
by the decision of three judges.

This is the first debate between David-

son and Birmingham-Southern, and in|

1930 Davidson will meet them in a debate
there.

This is the
scheduled
with the contracts practically closed, of
which two are certain—William and Mary
at Williamsburg and Washington and Lee
at Lexington.

Those entirely arranged for are:

University of Alabama, here.

University of Richmond, there.

-Emory, here.

Birmingham-Southern, here.

All of these are to be held next spring.
An effort was made to debate a team from
Oxford University here last fall, but due
to the expense, this had to be given up.
It is possible that a debate may be ar-
ranged with some woman’s college, prob-
ably Randolph-Macon or Agnes Scott,
and also plans are being discussed for one

fourth debate definitely

with. N. C. University, but as yet all of |

these are pending.
The try-outs for the teams this year will

be held on December 4, at which time four |

and possibly five teams will be chosen.
The question for these try-outs will be:
Resolved, That the public should retain
the ownership of ‘and develop the princi-
pal sources of hydro-electric power of
the United States.

This will probably be one of the most,
if not the most, debated questions in the
country during the following school year.
It is especially interesting in that it bears
on the presidential election.

a

EU AND PHI WILL
MEET TUESDAYS

At a recent meeting of the Eu and Phi
literary societies, a motion was made that

the societies should seriously consider the
night of the meeting, which has been, for
several years, on Thursday night, to an-
other night in the week, which would be
more suitable for a larger part of the
students. It has been difficult for many
of the fraternity men to attend the so-
ciety meeting on Thursday night due to
the fact that many have adopted this night
for their weekly fraternity meeting. One
of the reasons for this suggested change
was to enable this large group of men to
attend the weekly society meetings.
After a proposal was made the propo-
sition was discussed and committees were
appointed from both societies to investi-
gate the matter thoroughly, “The com-

mittees were composed of W. L. Dumas, |
J. R. Graham, M. W. Norfleet and S. H. |

Long, representing the Eumanean Society,
and C. H. Dubose, S. W. Dubose, S. R.
Coker, representing the Philanthropic So-
ciety. These two committees at a joint
meeting decided on Tuesday night as most
suitable. At their recommendation a mo-

tion that Tuesday night be selected was |

made and passed.

Members of the committee have inter-
viewed W. K. Pritchett, president of the
Honorary Fraternity Council, who has
agreed to arrange the Honoray Frater-
nity schedule so that there will be no con-
flicts in the time of their meetings with
the time of the literary societies. With
one exception, the social fraternities meet-
ing on Tuesday night have agreed to have
for their regular meetings Thursday, thus
enabling all social fraternity men to at-
tend literary society meetings. Other or-
ganizations which have agreed to co-
operate with the societies are the band,
which has been meeting on Tuesday night,
and the Faculty Committee on Lectures.
The latter has agreed not to have lectures
here on that night.

The societies will hold their regular
meeting tonight as usual so that the sched-

‘(Continued on page 4)

|
and there are several others

| N. C. C. P. A, LEAVING MYERS PARK LUNCHEON

Public Initiation
Entertains Crowd

| Rica tae)
| Scabbard and Blade initiated nine men
on last Wednesday, October 31. The pub-
| lic part of the initiation started after the
last drill Wednesday afternoon.
Numerous students turned out to see this
performance. The pledges went through
a great many maneuvers of a military
nature. The majority of the trees on the
campus were put through a rigid inspec-
tion and were “stuck” for needing shaves
and shoeshines. The trees were also in-
structed in the manual of arms und com-
pany movements. A few of the men then
drilled squads of bricks and bottles. A
cavalry drill was also held by men mount-
ed on stick horses. The nine pledges
later were put through a lock-step drill
which led them around the campus and
through Chambers _ building. While
marching in lock-step, the men were given
such commands as double time, to the
rear march, and goose step. Finally, the
men stopped an automobile and gave the
occupants a lesson in driving, which was
illustrated by several of the neophytes
who posed as the parts of an automobile.

The pledges were taken in the Armory
land searched for cigarettes and candy,
\but this search proved to be fruitless.
| They then filled up all of the coal boxes
in the building by carrying one lump of
coal at a time in their hands. The men
were finally locked up for several hours-

on

The last part of the public initiation
was held on the Freshman field that night.
The pledges formed a band and supplied
music for the procession. The field was
\lighted with rockets and colored flares.
‘The first stunt was a concert by. the band.
Two of the pledges then fed each other
spoonsfull of molasses, most of which
was poured on their faces? Later, oné of
the men rendered a trombone solo, which

| was
| firiNg of machine guns and a 37 mm. gun.
|A race was also held in which the men
| pusheyl_ croquet balls down the field with
their noses. The final act of the public
‘initiation was an egg fight.

_providentially drowned out by the |

Alumni Secretary

Edits Newspaper
For Homecoming

First Issue Will Be Placed in
Hands of Nearly Four Thou-
sand Old Grads
“DAVIDSON ALUMNUS”

Will Have Four Pages of Three

Columns Eeach

Seeking some new way to interest the
alumni, the Alumni Association has at last
turned out a new type of bulletin, This is
in the form of a three-column newspaper,
devoted entirely to news of Davidson
alumni and of news concerning the alumni.
This paper is of four pages, the first num-
ber to make its appearance came out on
November 6, making its debut under the
name of the “Davidson Alumnus.”

The first issue is almost entirely de-

(Continued on page 6)

Chapel Program to
Observe Armistice

On Monday, November 12, the chapel
exercises will be in the form of an Armi-
stice Day program. The ceremony was
arranged by Campel O'Neal, “Y’ secre-
tary. It has been the custom for several
years to conduct a service in honor of the
men who fought so valiantly in 1918.

The names of the speakers could not be
obtained, but the remainder of the pro-
gram is as follows:

Devotional.

Keynote address.

Tribute to the Dav
in the World War.

Close with America.

There will be no other services during
| the day at Davidson and classes will con-
tinue as usual, It is understood that there
| will be a parade and a general celebration
|at Mooresville, Which will last practically
all day. The college band will probably

idson men who died

Student House Party

A house party will be given at
the Y. M. C. A. during the week-
end of November 17, Homecom-
ing Day. This is being done in
order that every Davidson man
may have the opportunity of in-
viting a young lady to spend the
week-end of Homecoming on

the hill.

made for a place for them to

Reservations can be

stay by seeing Craig Fry or Mac
King. This is a most fitting time
to have girls on the hill and they
will all be taken care of proper-
ly, so don’t fail to make reser-

vations at once.

STUNT NIGHT WILL
FEATURE PLANS OF
HOME-COMING DAY

Each Class Will Present a Stunt
of Either a Comic or Dramatic
Nature

‘Alan Frew Wins State

| Legion Oratorical Contest

| Davidson Man Wins

Democratic Contest

In a recent contest sponsored by the Na-
tional Democratic Committee, W. K.
Pritchett, prominent member of — the
Senior class, was awarded first prize in
the Southeastern States for an essay,
“WhygAlfred E, Smith Should Be Elect-
ed President of the United States.” This
paper will be compared with 12. others
from other American college men, and
the writer of the’paper of highest merit
will receive as first prize, $1,000.

Several weeks ago the National Demo-
cratic Committee introduced this contest,
dividing the country into 13 sections/ att
appointed a leading newspaper in each
division to conduct the preliminary con-
In the Southeastern States, the At-
lanta Journal was chosen and an invitation
to writé papers was sent to all college men
in these states. Papers were submitted
from Alabama, Carolina, Georgia, Geor-
gia Tech, South Carolina, Clemson, and
most of the leading Southern colleges.
Kendrick Pritchett, who had prepared this
essay for other purposes, submitted it to
the judges, all of whom were members of
the faculty of Emory University, of At-
}lanta. It was in this selection that Prit-
| chett’s essay was awarded highest honor.

tests.

IN. C.C. P. A. Ends Very

Successful Meeting

e

|
|Delegates Well Entertained by
| Queens and Davidson Colleges

| -With the aid of Charlotte
| printing firms, Davidson and Queens Col-
ileges successfully entegfained the 102 dele-
gates from 17 colleges having publications
| which are members of the North Caro-
|lina Collegiate Press Association, in the

generous

After the horseplay. was over, the | take part in the celebration in Mooresville | i yteenth semi-annual corvention of that

pledges were taken off for the formal part
of the initiation.

lalso. This latter, is, however, tentative

only.

|Local Organizations Sponsored
by Alumni Asociation to
Broadcast from WBT

|

| On Tuesday night, November 13, from
| 8:00 to 8:30 p. m., there will be broadcast
;a radio program from Station WBT, at
| Charlotte, which is ‘sponsored by the Da-
| vidson College Alumni Association, and
given by Davidson representatives.

The arrangements for the program were
made by a committee appointed by the
| Alumni Council to represent the Associa-
| tion. The committee consists of Dr. J. P.
| Matheson, '99, and Dr. Oren Moore, 08,
| both of Charlotte.
| The program will consist.of one five-
| minute speech, followed by a musical pro-
| gram, rendered by the Glee Club and the
|two orchestras. Last year a similar pro-
| gram was broadcast just two days before
| Homecoming Day, with only a two-day
| notice to the participants and the hearers.
| This year, however, ample notice has been
| given, and the Glee Club and orchestra
| have been working on their programs for
| several days past. A notice will be sent
out to all alumni to notify them of the

program. j
| The program will be held all over the
United States, as WBT has recently in-
stalled new apparatus with a broadcasting
power of five thousand watts.

Davidson On The Air
To Wildcats Everywhere

Competitive System

To Be Used In Drill

For the past few years at Davidson a

on Wednesday for the platoon having the
best line. As the platoons passed by in
line they were judged by the cadet major,
cadet adjutant; and personnel adjutant.
The platoons which had the first, second
and third best lines were announced at the
next parade in the form of a special or-
der. The platoon receiving first place was
awarded three points; second, two points ;
and third, one point. At the end of the

year the platoon commander whose
platoon had the greatest number of points
received as an award a loving cup.

Lieutenant-Colonel Scott has announced
that the same plan will be carried out this
year and it is hoped that those taking
R. O. T. C. will enter into it heartily so
that it may better the appearance of the
weekly parades. The band will also be
considered as one platoon and will have
the same chance for the distinction.
Lieutenant-Colonel Scott states also that
a plan is being considered whereby the
platoons wirining may be designated in the
next parade. The method has not been
definitely decided but the military depart-

(Continued on page 4)

competition has been held at each parade |

| organization,

After the arrival of the delegates on
| Thursday, Noyember 1, the members of
{the organization were entertained by a
lrecantion at Fraternity Court. A compli-
| mentary banquet was given at the Max-
| well-Chambers Hotel, Chas. M. Pratt act-
ling as toastmaster. Dr. D. W. Daniel,
| head of the English Department and di-
|rector of Arts and Science of Clemson
| College, gave an address, entitled, “The
| Joyous Life.” Following the banquet the
| delegates attended a complimentary the-
ater party.

The first business session was called to
order Friday morning at 10 o'clock, by
| Walter S. Spearman, U. N. C., president
of the N. C. C. P. A. The delegates
| were then welcomed with fitting words by
| J. R. Covington, editor of the “Quips and
| Cranke.” Lawrence Dumas then
|duced Dr. Frazer Hood, chair of Psy-
| chology,’ Davidson College, who spoke to
| the convention on the importance of psy-
| chology in journalism.
| The publications represented were call-
jed on for a report by Miss Alice Dowd,
| Meredith College, secretary of the organi-
| zation. Committees on resolutons, Press
| Association library, choice of next meet-
|ing place, and recommendations, were then
| appointed.

intro-

Murrill Speaks

The convention adjourned at Charlotte,
where a luncheon was given at the Myers
Park Club. Following/the luncheon, Hugh
Murrill, vice-president of the Queen City
Printing Company, addressed the conven-
tion at Queens College. At 4:00 p. m.a
tea was given by the Queens girls in the
reception building.

The delegates then attended a compli-

Davidson Student Defeats Five
Contestants to Win College
Competition
Representing Davidson
College in the American
State
Contest, Alan Frew won

Legion Oratorical

first prize with the subject

“Why Every American
Alan Frew Citizen, Should Vote.”
The first prize consisted of $50 in cash, a
medal presented by the American Legion,
and a loving cup given by the Commer-
cial National Bank of Raleigh, where the
contest was held.

In an effort to stimulate interest in vot-
ing, the State Department of the Amer-
ican Legion, through its Americanism
Committee, announced this staewide con-
test several weeks ago. A preliminary
try-out was staged at Davidosn and Alan
Frew was chosen to represent this school.
In his speech, he deplored the indifference
shown by the large number of citizens
who do not go to the polls on election day.
He pointed out that this was particularly
puzzling in view of the fact that one days’
wage out of every nine is paid by the
average ‘citizen for the upkeep of gov-
ernment,

Other “schools represented were Uni-
versity of North Carolina, High Point
College, and Atlantic College. The judges
were Bishop W. J. Hafey, President J. L.
Peacock of Shaw University, and Cale
K. Burgess.

It is worthy of note that Alan Frew
won the Southern Collegiate Oratorical
contest last year, and was awarded third
place in the National in
Angeles.

contest Los

Student Body Will
Attend State Game

Each fall the student body is allowed
one day for the purpose of attending a
Wildcat football game not played on the
campus.

This the student body, through
President Kell, petitioned the faculty for
Saturday, November 10, the day of the
State-Davidson game which will be played

year

at Greensboro,

School will be held as usual for every-
one not making the trip. The men will
report to the cheer leaders between halves
and for no other reason except for that of
attending the game will they be excused
from their scholastic work.

Last year the trip was made by train.
This year the cheer leaders are making
plans for special busses which will afford
who wish it a sure means of
transportation. The will
from the school before chapel on Satur-
day morning and will. arrive at Greens-
10 o'clock. Special rates on
the game will be made the Davidson stu-
dents and a section of the stands is being
reserved for them near midfield.

The busses will leave Greensboro Satur-
day night and will arrive at Davidson
about 12 o'clock. The round trip fare
will probably be $3.50, however, definite
nnouncement concerning this will be made
later.

all those

busses leave

boro about

mentary theater patty, which was followed
by a dinner given at the Hotel Charlotte,
at 7:30. After the dinner, a number of
the delegates were conducted through the
Observer's printing house.

Business Session
The second business session convened

Saturday morning in Shearer Hall. A
(Continued on page 6)

JAZZ BAND TO PERFORM

‘Glee Club Will Give a Concert at
| This Time

Stunt night will again be the source of
entertainment for the many visitors on the
campus the night of November 17, Many
features are being prepared for the pro-
gram, such as solos, sax and vocal, quartet,
string duo, and two appearances of the
Glee Club.

Each class is preparing a stunt of, some
sort to be given with the program and
their part will be dramatic or comic. The
exact order of the program has not been
arranged, but the concert orchestra will
appear first with a number of selections.

The jazz orchestra will present a va-
riety of entertainment. They plan to ap-
pear for about 20 minutes with jazz and
comedy skit interspersed during this time.
They have many of the newest hits work-
ed up to perfection and will present a
group of older ones.

The Glee Club is working hard ‘at pres-
ent fortheir appearance at Queens but
will begin their work for Homecoming
immediately after this first concert. The
club will render the following pieces:
“Sylvia,” by Speaks ; “Give a Man a Horse
He Can Ridge,” \by O'Hara; “Brown Bird
Singing,” by Wood; and “Annie Laurie,”
by Geibel, They will be on the stage only
twice, singing two different songs at each
appearance,

Featured in the program will be a saxo-
phone solo, by A. J. Thompson, entitled
“Valse Martlyn,” by Wiedoeft. This will
be something new for Davidson. Mr.
Thompson has played the sax in the or-
chestra for the past two years and also
performs on the clarinet.

Other features on the program will be
a string duo or trio.© The quartet will
render a few numbers and there will be
two vocal solos,

The jazz orchestra has not decided as
yet whether they will furnish further en-
tertainment after the regular program in
Shearer Hall. The stunt night program
will begin about 7:30 and last approxi-
mately an hour and a half. If time al-
lows after the program the orchestra will
entertain.

Y.M.C. A. VESPERS
HELD BY RAYNAL

“By their fruits. ye shall know them”
was the theme of Dr. C, E. Raynal, pastor
the Church of
Statesville, in an address delivered at “Y”
vespers Sunday evening.

In the beginning of his talk Dr. Raynal
declared that there were
interpreting “the fruits”
teachings, such the such
teachings crystallized in the form of pub-

of First) Presbyterian

several ways of
of teachers and

s results of
lic opinion on current questions, or the
type of personal character produced by
particular There still a
third test of a doctrine, however, and that
is the question as to what the teacher's
philosophy really means to himself in his
own life.

teachings. is

It was on this last interpretation of the
text that the speaker based his message.
First he illustrated the importance of a
vital belief through its effects produced in
the attitudes of the prophets and Paul
toward the customs of their times, Paul,
confident that he had the of
truth in his heart, was willing to face the
persecutions of the Roman Empire that
he might give that truth to men.

Our beliefs may never be tested by the
stern

message

situations confronting the great

apostle; yet, we should seek to discover
and emulate “the qualities composing his
wonderful conception of life.

In the first place, Paul's faith was
characterized by its intelligence and con-
viction rather than by any weak, emotional
basis, important as. that element may be.
What our church of today needs is a clear-
ly stated Gospel that will be applicable
to the problems of the twentieth century.
This will result ‘a man-sized faith”
for the leaders of the future as the old
beliefs Have served for those in the past.

Then, a real faith must possess vigor
and power; it must control the wills of
men to such an extent that their lives will
be turned from a course of pettiness to
one of ennobling service to Jesus Christ.
This does not mean an enslaving of the
will but a greater freedom through the
service of the Master in showing men the

in

(Continued on page 4)
