THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 22, 1928

LITERARY SOCIETIES

The Davidsonian wishes to be of
6 as great a service to the societies
as is possible. With few exceptions
the paper comes out, on Thursday
afternoon. It would bé a definite in-
centive to attendance if the advance
program could be published in the
issue of that day.

Such a plan has been tried in the
past but failed owing to inability of
obtaining the program. With co-
operation from the persons in
charge of making out the programs
the paper can be of service to the
societies.

Political Situation
Discussed by Phis

The last meeting of the Philanthropic
Literary Society was devoted to the politi-
cal situation. The feature of the program
was Charles McCrae and Bud Guthrie,
affirmative, and Dan Currie and J. P. Mc-
Bryde, negative, debating on the follow-
ing query: “Resolved: That All Candi-
dates for Student Body and Class Offices
Should Be Allowed to Make Speeches in
Their Behalf.”
decision.

Prof, Erwin made a talk on the politi-
cal situation while he was a student. In
his scholastic day the position of Chief
Marshal was the most coveted honor that
could be bestowed on the campus and it
seemed to be sought by all methods. Prof.
Erwin explained the political machines of
that day. He stated that the girl who re-
ceived the sash worn by the Chief Mar-
shal was the queen of the hour while the
sashes worn by his subordinates were by
no means uncoveted.

Tonight’s Program

Debate: “Resolved, That Capital Pun-
ishment Should be Abolished.” Affirma-
tive, C. E. Kraemer, B. F. Brown; nega-
tive, C. H. Dubose and E. G. Epps. An
oration by M. A. Morrison.

Judge John J. Parker
Speaks On the Ideals

of the New Professions

Three Fundamental Relations of
Law Discussed by Eminent
Judge

&

Davidson students interested in law were
afforded an opportunity of hearing one of
the foremost jurists of the state, when Judge
John J. Parker, of Charlotte, spoke for the
Vocational Guidance Institute last Thursday
night at Shearer Hall. Judge Parker is a
judge in the Circuit Court of Appeals of the
fourth district, ayd before accepting the
judgeship he was'a prominent lawyer prac-
ticing in this state.

In beginning the discussion of his topic,
“The Ideals of the Law Profession,” Judge
Parker stated that in his opinion law is next
to the ministry in importance and benefit to
the world.

He continued in substance as follows:

Lawyers have played a wonderful part in
the development of this country. They for-
mulated the Constitution, which is our great-
est legal institution, and they today fill, aside
from the judiciary, the most important places

The affirmative won the].

Advanced Students
Form French Club

Under the leadership of Professors
Watts and Moore, the members of the
advanced French classes met on, Monday
night at the home of Dr. Watts to or-
ganize a French ‘society, Le Cercle
Francaise, with the ultimate view of be-
coming affiliated with the Alliance, Fran-
caise, and interenational society located in
New York.

At the first meeting, the 17 charter
members were present. Officers were
elected and plans for the affiliation with
the Alliance Francaise, a well known
French society under the direction of M.
Paul Claudel, the French Ambassador to
the United State, were discussed.

The officers of Le Cercle Francaise, as
chosen Monday night, are: Charles All-
bright, president; Francis Ghigo, vice-
president, Hal Johnson, secretary, B. W.
Miller, treasurer.

The charter members of the socicty,
composed ofthe advance French students,
are: C. J. Allbright, J. A. Alexander, G.
W. Crawford, Clisby Dubose, Francis
Ghigo, H. C. Johnson, J. G. Johnson, *R.
R. Kane, Chas. Lanier, B. W. Miller, J. P.
McKnight, R. M. Stevenson, J. P. Thomp-
son, Shelby Vance, Caldwell Withers.
Invitations have been extended to the
following faculty members by Le Cercle
Francaise: Professors Crow, Brown,
Lilly, Lingle, Vowles, and Cummings.

These six, together with the seventeen
student members and professors Moore

has long been needed on the campus.

in the legislative and executive sides of our

they have special training, but also because
the people trust the lawyers.

There are three fundamental relations in
the life-and work of a lawyer. They are:
his relation to his client, to the law, and to
the state.
the utmost trust and confidence, and it may
be said that he does not betray this trust.
Through his relation to the law, the lawyer
is in a position peculiar to his profession.
He does not sell his services like a com-
modity, but it is his duty and privilege to
stand for the protection and right and the
redress of wring. The lawyer’s time is given
to the study of the perfection of reason and
his standard of success is reached when he
has learned the law and has interpreted it
to his fellows.

In the third relation, that of the lawyer
to the state, he holds a position of impor-
tance as leader of the thought in his com-
munity. This opportunity is also a respon-
sibility for there are thousands of questions
the solutions of which depend upon the
lawyer.

One of the greatest of these problems is
the present disrespect for law, and one of
the greatest things a lawyer can do is to set
an,example of respect for law before the
people. It is the duty of the lawyer to pre-
serve our constitutional government and to
inerpret the Constitution.

In entering into law as a life work one
must keep in mind that it is not a trade, but
a profession which gives an opportunity to
render the most important service. Law de-
mands certain attributes in a follower of it.
It demands character and honesty; courage,

both moral and intellectual; learning, and
idealism.

Distinctive Stationery
For College Men

Plain and With Seal

Kodaks Superior Fountain Pens
Films _ Soda Books
Kodak Finishing Service Student Supplies

Davidson Book and Stationery Co.

Where Service and Quality Reign

‘

{

and Watts, will compose a society which | |

|
|

government. This is not merely becatae | *

From his client the lawyer gets |

Preliminaries for Golf

Matches

In three or four days the students who
wish to try out for the Wildcat golf team
will have the preliminaries. The prelimi-
naries will be a 36-hole match from which
six or eight men will be chosen. These men
will pair off for the finals-which will be held
in the near future. There are only two of
last year’s players back this spring, A. L.
Mills and B. G. Wilson. i

The team ha’ already three or four matches
with colleges and country clubs. On April
4th the Wildcats will meet the Washington
and Lee Generals. The next meet scheduled
will be with Wake Forest on the 2nd of
May, at Greensboro. They will meet the
University of North Carolina golfers on the
3rd and Duke on the 4th. Then on the Sth
the team will enter the State Tournament at
Greensboro, where they will meet. the dif-
ferent college and country club teams of the
state. Matches with two or three country
clubs are tentative.

There seems to be a great deal of interest
taken in golf this spring as many of ‘the stu-
dents are out every afternoon playing prior
to the preliminaries. There will be many
aspirants for positions on the team:this. year
and the competition. will then likely, be great.
The following is the tentative schedule:
Washington: and: Lee—April 4th.
Wake Forest—May 2nd.

Carolina—May 3rd.

Duke—May 4th.

State Tournament—May 5th.

Team Will be Held Soon

Schedule This Season to Include Five

Columbia Seminary Men
Speak Before Students

“Being a Workman” is Theme
Chosen by L. Burney

At the weekly meeting of the Ministe-
rial Band, last Sunday, Mr. L. Burney
and Mr. McDowell Richards, both of the

lanta, and Davidson graduates, were the
chief speakers. Paul Thrower acted as
chairman of the meeting.

Mr. Richards is the son of Dr. C.

meeting over to his colleague. Mr. Bur-
ney’s text was taken from the second
chapter of Second Timothy: The writ-
ings of an experienced man to an inex-
perienced, The following phrases from
the fifteenth verse were used: “Study to
show thyself approved of God.” and “A
workman that needeth not be ashamed.”
Words of praise are pleasant to us. They
should be a means of power to lead us on
|to greater things. Instead, they some-
| times turn us backward.

Being a workman is our theme — we
| should ask ourselves that question: “Am
'1?” There must be a task to be accom-
plished. Paul had a task—that of spread-
ing the Gospel, which he realized he
hadn't. accomplished, and in his letter to
Timothy, he ‘is. turning the task over to
}him—that.task ‘still incomplete today and
Paul is turning it over to us. It will. al-
ways be our task. What is the minister’s
|and the Christian worker's task? That
lof the Christian worker is different. It
can be called the remodeling task.

At one time man was perfect, but fell
from grace when the apple was eaten.
The life of a man can be reconstructed as .
a building. We are tools of Jesus Christ
for this purpose. We must submit our-
selves as Timothy did. “Am I a worker
for Christ?” Each has to answer for
himself, The formula for work that the
Physics textbook gives is: Force times
the Distance equals the Weight. Onone

M.|
Richards of Davidson. After making a| saying: “T don’t know where I’m going,
few introductory words, he turned the!pu¢ [’m on my way?” A man doesn’t

|condition, the Force and Distance are in

{the same line of direction.
Columbia Theological Seminary of At-| force through Jesus Christ.

We have the
We know
the.distance. Are we thinking of applying
the fforce and distance in the same direc-
tion? Is there a practical force behind our
faith? Are we joy riding in life—just

drift into success in this life. It’s the one
who knows the direction, that succeeds.
Are we willing to exert every effort for
Christ? Are’ we willing to apply the
Force and the Distance in the same di-
rection?

“Will you marry me?”

“No, you drink.”

“Then marry me and save me.”

“T don’t want a husband preserved in al-
cohol.”—Texas Ranger.

“It’s terribly disagreeable in Montana in
the summer, isn’t it?”

“Why, yes, but we have Great Falls.’”—
Virginia Reel.

“Do your shoes hurt?”
“No, but my feet do.”

—Nebraska Awgwan.

Let him who is without gin cast the first

moan.—Northwestern Purple Parrot.

\

Camel smoke.

STAY ON THE FAIRWAY;

STICK TO CAMELS!

SoMEWHERE between your collar-button and the bottom of your plus-fours
there’s a smoke-spot—seeking “‘fill-fullment.” The vast majority of jobbies
who feel that in’ard hankerin’ have discovered what to do about it. They
pull a cool cloud of joy away down into it—and slowly exhale fragrant

Tobacco science has produced in Camel a superb blend of the choicest
Turkish and Domestic tobaccos. Just revel once in the delicious, quivering
aroma of a cloud of Camel smoke. We'll bet a ‘caddie to a left-handed

niblick you'll never get off that fairway!

Qu R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, Winston-Salem, N.C.
