Re

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 26, 1928

“Y” Column

Vesper Services, next Sunday evening, will
be conducted by the Junior class, on the
lawn back of the “Y” building. Efforts are
being made, however, to secure Gipsy Smith,
Jr., who is now conducting an evangelistic
meeting in Concord. In the event that he
can be present the program of the Juniors
will be postponed. Mr. Smith is nationally
known as a popular evangelist, and every stu-
dent should make a special ffort to hear
him if he consents to hol dthe service.

AEBS Qa oie

Everyone's attention is called to the bock-
let, “Why The ‘Y,’” which has recently ap-
peared. Its purpose is to define and explain
the aim of our local organization; it does net
attempt to define the policies of the national
organization. There are many phases of the
work touched on, and the “Y” feels that it
will be of benefit to every reader. Copies
will be sent to cach member of the board of
trustees and to many leading ministers in the
South. Anyone may secure this booklet at
the “Y” room, and the “Y” will be glad to
send copies to special friends of the students,
if they Will leave the names at the office.

ees Ys

Each member of the new “Y”
rapidly becoming familiar with his dutics
for the coming year. Every man is making
a conscientious and sincere effort to prepare
himself to the best of his ability for the im-
portant work ahead.

cabinet is

In the near future the old and new cabi-
nets are going on a “Retreat.” They will

LITERARY SOCIETIES

Tonight at 7:15 the members of each lit-
erary society will meet in the Eumenean hall
for the annual Fresh-Soph debate which is
sponsored by the two societies. The question
for discussion is, “Resolved, That the United
States Shall Cease to Protect by Force of
Arms American Capital in Foreign Countries
Except After Formal Declaration of War.”

Eumenean
“Resolved, That a Five-day Week for

Labor Should Be Adopted,” was the question

under discussion at the last meeting, April
19th. E. E. Marsh and J. R. Graham won
the decision over the negative, which was
supported by S. H. Long and W. Williams.
The merits of the question was previously
decided by the house in favor of the affirm-
ative.

J. C. Mathews delivered an oration. A
motion was passed to contribute seven and a
half dollars towards the expense of David-
son’s representative in the state oratorical
contest on the Constitution of the United
States, which is to be held at Duke in the
near future.

Philanthropic

Debating on the affirmative, W. A. Brown
and T. H. Hall won over Crawford and
Cromartie, of the negative. The remainder
of the hour was devoted to a discussion of
parliamentary law, “Robert's Rules Of Or-
ders” being cofsidered the final authority.
The Philanthropic Society also voted seven
and a half dollars towards the expenses of
the Davidson representative at Duke.

NEW FRAT COUNCIL

spend the night in some seclusive and quiet

spot where a consecrative council will be
held.

eS fe

All those who can make use of the “Y”
rooms during Junior Week are requested to
do so. The “Y” will be open and will be

lO. Nesbit,

(Continued from page 1)

The retiring council is: H. B. Arbuckle,
president, Pi Kappa Alpha; J. F. McCrary,
secretary and treasurer, Kappa Alpha; W.
Beta Theta Pi; W. R. Grey,
Kappa Sigma; C. R. Carr, Pi Kappa Phi;
M. P. Crawford, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; J.

JIM APPLEBY

(Continued from page 1)

been. of untold help to many men on the
campus, advisir.z them, guiding them, always
trying to make life more worth-while for
them. So many watch his departure with
not a little sadness, remembering him, above
all, as a friend, companion, and a devout man
of God.

LYNCHBURG HORNETS

(Continued from page z

Crawford, lb ~--------- 421900
F. Newman, rf -------- 401000
ROS) 20: seen ce cuseucee K Ser’ Se Sat Seay” Ean” 4
steelé,: 3b" sen c2 sc. 3.0°1220
E. Newman, 1b -------- 3 0011 0 0
Rafditl; 6: socccccecoeas. 40°0 221
RUG Ypit cescbocccsousas 3000 00
Barbet lt. ssesdeusesaas 100100
Grant p “adc cevecet oes. 400070
Welly Sescvsssvseeusece 101000
"ROIS te staansen caus 34.3 52418 4
*Hit for E. Newman in ninth.
DAVIDSON ABR HPOA E
IMAPrisON, 32D Séscaeccsuu fechas band} C7 e0C bet |
Ratchford, 1f ---------- 411100
DTT Ls Seip ceedgsig Seer OY 4 Seo eal
Johnson, cf ~---------.- 333300
McInnis, p-rf ---------- 401040
J. Kugler, ss ---------- 402510
Crawford, 1b ~--------- 500900
MILER ih ooecuccucus7e 32 oll 06
E. Kugler, p ---------- 000000
McAulay, c ---------_-- 20031410
McGeachy, c ~--------- 000300
Ua Gewese se a2 5 33 13 13 27 11 2
Score by innings: RHE
Lynchburg ------___- 200 000 00I— 3 5 4
Davidson: ..2.-.--- 352 001 02x—13 13 2

Summary—Home run: Dulin; three-base
hit: Johnson; two-base hits: Rose, Miller;
sacrifice hits: Harrison, Ratchford, J. Kug-
ler; stolen bases: Harrison, Ratchford;
double plays: Malone to Rose to E. Newman
(2); struck out: by McInnis 1, by Kugler
2; base on balls: off Grant 7, off Kugler 1;
passed balls: Rardin (2), McAulay; hit by

Norton G, Pritchett, former University
of Tennessee athletic idol and for the past
six years director of athletics at Wood-
berry Forest School in Virginia, has ac-
cepted a position recently offered him by
Davidson College athletic officials, and
will report here September 1 as professor
of physical education and chairman of
the Davidson Athletic Committee it was
announced today.

The appointment of Mr. Pritchett to
the professorship of physical education
and to the chairmanship of the Davidson
Athletic Committee followed lengthy
negotiations between him and local ath-
letic officials resulting from the approval
by the Davidson Board of Trustees of an
enactment providing for the addition of a
department of physical education to the
college curriculum. His acceptance will
in no wise alter the existing personnel-of
the coaching staff at Davdison, Coach W.
L. Younger will be retained as director of
athletics and head coach, and S. D. Til-
son will continue as assistant coach.

Mr. Pritchett will assume general su-
pervision of physical training and educa-
tion for all students, and will in all prob-
ability assist Coaches Younger and Til-
son in the direction of cinder path activ-
ities.

Zo.

As chairman of the ‘athletic com- |

[mittee he will supervise the making of
all athletic schedules, the financial man-
agement of all athletic teams, ‘and the
subsequent addition of new members to
the coaching staff of the college.

The Woodberry Forest coach will come
to Davidson highly recommended. As a
student at the University of Tennessee he
was a four-letter athlete and a star in
each of the four major branches of inter-

collegiate sport. He has directed the
athletic programs of a number of Ten-
nessee, Virginia and Kentucky prep
schools. His success at Woodberry

Forest during the past six years have

brought him numerous offers from leading
southern colleges and universities, among
them the University of Virginia and the
University of North: Carolina.

The class of 1873 is planning to have its
fifty-fifth reunion at commencement; and
word has been received from Rev. J. N. H.
Summerell, D.D., of New Bern, and Rev.
E. P. Davis, D.D., of Greenville, S. C., that

' they plan to attend. Four of the 1878 men

have already signified their intention to at-
tend the fiftieth reunion of their class.

Mooresville

The
Kelly Clothing Co.

Correct Dressers for
Men and Boys

glad to serve as a central meeting point for | W. Reid, Theta Upsilon Omega; J. S. Fos- pitched ball: by ‘Kugler “(Rose); umpire: North Carolina
all friends who may be on the campus, ter, Phi Gamma Delta. Brandon.
— =
- Sega
; ®

—_——_—

E.

At Efird’s! Everything for
the Well Dressed Man

Clothing and Furnishings in Good Taste-Moderately Priced

|. Our men’s furnishings and clothing departments are most complete, offering you a fine
selection of the better grade of suits fashioned by standard and well known makers,
guaranteeing you new and authentic styles and the best quality.

———_

a

a
esi
