~THEDAVI

SONIAN ©

FORA BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XV.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 19, 1928

No. 16

SOUTHERN FEDERATION
OF COLLEGE STUDENTS
TO MEET AT ALABAMA

Davidson One of Fifteen Schools to
be Represented at Convention
Held During Month of April

The Southern Federation of College Stu-
dents will meet on the campus of the Uni-
versity of Alabama on Thursday, April 19th,
and continuing through Saturday, the 21st.
Davidson is one of the 15 members of this
organization which will be represented at
the conference. Other. schools are Auburn,
University of Tennessee, Georgia Tech, Mis-
sissippi A. & M., Emory University, Uni-
versity of Florida, Washington, and Lee,
University of Kentucky, University of Ala-
bama, V. P. I., Duke, University of Rich-
mond and N. C. State, and University of
Maryland. :

During the three days on which the fed-
eration ‘will convene the representatives from
the various student governments will dis-
cuss new plans and problems which have
arisen in their respective schools. Many
nationally known men of the educational
world will appear on the program which is
now being planned by the federation’s pro-
gram committee.

There are rumors that the delegates will
be elegantly efitertained with a full program
of dances and dinners.

The convention last year was held at the
University of Kentucky.

The Southern Federation of College Stu-
dents was organized at Georgia Tech in
\1922. It was the idea of Al Staton, all-
Southern football man from that institution.
The purpose of the association is to spread
student government through the South and
to extend through experiences felt at the
different colleges, the benefits of student

(Continued, on page 2)

Philanthropic Literary Society Votes
to Prorogue Meetings Until September

A sudden shock to
alumni comes

students and
that the

Philanthropic Literary Society has disband-

many
the announcement
ed for the rest of the year with the inten-
tion of reorganizing at the opening of the
next school year in September, 1928.

Decreasing interest in literary activities
on the part of Davidson students and poor
attendance was offered as the reason for the
resolutions calling for the disbanding of the
organization. The officers of the organi-
zation did not make any comment on the ac-
tion except that plans will be made for re-
organization of the Phi Society at the be-
ginning of next, term.

This is the second material step the socie-
ties have made in their downward’ trend
during the past two years. Two years ago
there existed four societies. At the opening
of the 1926-27 school year one of the four
societies merged with the Phi, leaving only
three in existence. During that year the
Pandenic united with the Eumenean Society,
leaving only two organizations. The Phi
having disbanded, only the Eu will continue
in its work this winter.

The societies have long been a vital part in|

the life of the college. Their halls are lo-
cated in ancient and dignified buildings in
_ the front of the campus. For many years
they formed the center of forensic activities,
giving credit to their members for the work
done. During the past few years the num-
ber who have receiyed diplomas from the
societies has ben steadily decreasing.

,

Freshmen Complete
Annual Elections

On Wednesday evening, January 11th, the
Freshman class, in their first meeting to be |
presided over by a member of their class as |
officer, elected “Hub” Covington as the vice- |
president of the class and “Pete” Glidewell,
to be secretary and treasurer. Dean Rusk,
the president, presided.

A meeting was first called to elect the
president of the class on Tuesday night. As
above stated, Dean Rusk was chosen, from a
field of several nominees, all of whom were
nominated by the nominating committee. On |
the following night the class again assembled |
tovchoose the officers of vice-president, and |
secretary and treasurer... In the former
there were four men nominated. These men |
were as follows: Paul Alderman, Archie |
McLean, Dan Goodykoontz, and ‘Hub’ Cov-
ington. There were three ballots taken in |
this election. On the first, Alderman was
eliminated. In the second, McLean dropped |
out, and in the third and last, Goodykoontz |
was eliminated. For the position of secre- |
tary and treasurer there were five men nomi-
nated, who were: Pete Glidewell, Claude
Farrell, Joe Baird, Charles Kraemer, and
Bob Overman, There were also three bal-
lots taken in this election.
ballot was taken, Glidewell, Farrell and
Kraemer refnained. Frem_ this number,
Kraemer was climinated on the next and
final ballot. All the nominations for the
offices of vice-president, and secretary and
treasurer came from the floor, in contrast to
those of the night preceding.

Covington is from Red Springs, N. C. He
(Continued on page 8)

Honorary Musical
Society Organized

A committee composed of R. E. Wilson,
J. S. Foster, R. S. Lowrance, E. B. Peter-
son, C, J. Albright, and P. J. Garrison, rep-
resenting the various musical organizations
and the three upper classes of the college,
met on Monday night in the music room in
Eu Hall, for the purpose of considering the
organization of either a local honorary musi-
cal society or a petitioning body to a Na-
tional Musical Fraternity.

This committee decided in favor of the
latter plan, accordingly the men who are ac-
tive in at least two musical organizations
have been invited to form a petitioning body.

Professor Collum, the head of the musical
department of the school, is helping the
above named students in their endeavor to
secure a chapter of National Musical Fra-
ternity. Professor Collum read in chapel
Tuesday morning the list of students invited
to join the petitioning body.

If this chapter is secured, it will be of

;mer work.

When the first |

Faculty Sub-Committee
Considers Proposal for
Entire Summer,/Session

Proposal Must be Adopted by
Faculty and Trustees

MATTER UNDECIDED

Complete Summer Session. is of
Interest to Students and to
Nearby Teachers

It is understood that plans are being con-
sidered to hold a summer session of the col-
lege next July and August. Nothing very
definite has been decided, so no announce-
ment can be made for the present, but it is
thought that the summer school will certainly
be held. The board of trustees will give the
final decision in regard to the matter.

A number of students who will want to
make up back work or catch up with courses
will be interested in this announcement of a
prospective summer session, as will also a
great number of public school teachers: in
this section of North Carolina

Davidson College, with its beautiful cam-
| pus and well equipped dormitories and class

,

| rooms, and its well trained faculty of ex-

is considered an ideal place for sum-
For some years there has been
an increasing number of students and teach-

perts,

{ers applying for such courses.

| “In the past the college has made it a policy
| to offer only the courses for which there is
| sufficient demand to warrant the necessary
expenditure, However, in many instances,
| students who wished to take summer work
| were forced to attend other institutions on
jaccount of a lack of demand for certain
icourses. If the present proposals are de-
veloped and passed by the necessary authori-
ties this will no longer be necessary.
During the summer of 1927 there were
some 75 people doing work at Davidson, al-
though there was no organized school, Pro-
| fessors Fleagle, Henderson, Curry, Goldiere,
| were among the members of the faculty who
i taught during the summer.

“King Exam” Will Rule

Campus for Ten Days

No Publication or Outside Activities
to be Worked on During Exam-
ination Period

Examinations at Davidson College begin,
as usual,”on the 19th of January. From
Thursday, then, “King Exam.” will hold
imperial sway over the fair campus of the
school for a period of 10 days. The sched-
ule this year is much the same as that of last
year, and it seems to be as well arranged as
is possible. There will be no chapel service
for Seniors during the period of examina-
tions. The hour for starting is 9:00 o'clock
in the forenoon, and 2:00 o’clock in the aft-
ernoon. As exam. time is always a trying
period at Davidson, the men will look for-
ward eagerly to days of leisure between their
tests. No exams. of any nature will be held
on Monday, the 22nd, so most of the stu-
dents will get a very welcome let-down over
this week-end.

Examination time is always a time to stop
and consider a great many things. Some

great help to the musical organizations of
the school, it will provide an incentive for
those who take part in the various musical
organizations to work harder. Such is the
opinion of Professor Collum.

“Seven Godly bellringers who will re-
main to attend divine services after their
work is done” are wanted by a rural Eng-
lish church. The former ringers refused
to attend services because they said they
knew the parson’s sermons by heart.

boys think of their chance to pass, to stay in
school. Fortunately, the percentage of this
type at Davidson is small. Others think of
their chance for big grades on the approach-
ing tests. But for all of them, from the Phi
Beta Kappa men on down, exam. time is a
time when the impulse to do better, to “put
out” in the fullest sense of the word, strikes
every college man. Some are naturally dis-
appointed that their efforts have not been
more deserving of praise. .Some feel that
OLD MAN HARD LUCK has camped a

(Continued on page 8)

DUKE WIN

Norris Trophy Cup
Rules Are Changed

This year the rules for the Norris Trophy
Cup Contest are the same as last year, with
the exception of one change. The new rule
requires that the “D” Club nominate six men
who have fulfilled the requirements and
present them to the student body before the
primary election. This change was made by
| the committee with the idea in mind that the
“D" Club men were especially capable of
making these nominations, as they could
judge athletic ability and accomplishments
| better than the average student. Nominations
| from the floor will be permitted and the en-
tire student body will vote on the men.

A primary ‘election will be held, and a
final election will decide the winner; Ten
days must elapse between the two elections.
The only requirement for the candidates,
other than their athletic records, are that
they attain a passing grade on 70 per cent of
their school work. The election will be held
under the supervision of a representative of
the Norris Athletic Cup Contest Committee,
and Mr. Frank E. Lowenstein, the ex-officio
chairman, will have charge of awarding the
cup.

It is usually awarded on Athletic Night,
in the spring. It is the policy of the com-
mittee to withhold the name of the winner
of the cup from the public until the award is
made, thereby creating a great deal of in-
terest and helping to make Athletic Night an
occasion to be looked forward to and re-
membered.

The cup is given by the Norris Candy
Company, of Atlanta, Ga. They make these
awards to many of the schools in the South,

(Continued on page 8)

Library Officials
Announce Changes

That the library authorities are endeavor-
ing to co-operate with the student body in
the use of the library is evidenced in a re-
cent change in the hours for book circulation
and for reference work on reserved mate-
rial.

9:00 p.m. The reference rooms will not be
open from 12 to 1:30 p. m. but will be avail-
able for reference_and study from 7:00 p. m.
to 11:00 p. m. “eR

The other hours for book circulation and
study remain unchanged. The completé re-
vised schedule is as follows: The reading
room remains cpen from 9:00 a. m. to 11:00
p. m. The reference rooms will be open
from 9:50 a. m. to 12:00 m.; from 2:30 to
6:00 p. m.; from 7:00 to 11:00 p. m. Hours
for book circulation from 9:30 to 12:00;
from 2:30 to 6:00, and from 7:00 to 9:00.
The reading room will remain open on Sun-
day from 9:00 a. m. to 5:30 p.m. On Sat-
urday the library proper closes at 6:00 and
the reading room at 3:00 p. m.

These hours have been established, since
they seem best adapted to the needs of the
students. Retention of the late reference
hours from 9:00 to 11:00 p. m., will depend
upon the number of persons taking advantage
of this opportunity. The abolition of refer
ence hours from 12 to 1:30 was caused by
the very small number of persons using
them, and these new hours will also be ten-
tative until their value has been ,proved.

Allan Frew and Glenn Fry Give
of Tenth Student Volunteer Convention

The period for book circulation, chang- |
ed from 7:30 to 9:30, is now from 7:00 to!

GUILFORD, FURMAN AND

ROM ’CATS

IN BASKETBALL GAME

Captain Wilson is Wildcat’s Con-
sistent Mainstay in Three Losses
During Five Days on Home
Floor

Captain Ben Wilson and his midget cage
team found the going rather rough this
week, losing three games in five days to
Duke, Furman, and Guilford, respectively.
Unsteady passing and the refusal to follow
through shots at the basket have caused de-
feat in each of the three games, particularly
the Furman and Guilford contests. At times
the team looks might good, and shows signs
of being a classy outfit as soon as the pres-
ent nervousness and unsteadiness wears
away. Coach Monk has been working mighty
hard with the squad and an improved team
is sure to be forthcoming.

On January 11th Duke UniverStty brought
to Davidson one of the neatest quintets seen
here in two or three years. With four
Sophomores, members of last year’s cham-
pionship team, playing regularly, Duke's
prospects. in basketball are very bright.
Speed in working the ball down the floor and
accurate shooting enabled Duke to take the
local team into camp, 46-27. The feature of
the game was the work of Jankoskie, run-
ning guard, who besides playing a brilliant
floor game, contributed 19 points to the
cause. Kelly, at center, also showed up well
for the visitors. For Davidson, Pritchett
and Wilson bore the brunt of the offense.
Crawlord, playing his first year for the var-
sity, played a good game at guard and shot
7 points. The line-up follows:

Duke (46)

Position. Davidson (27)

Councilor (2). ----- Hes ecuee Hewlette
Werber (6) ~------ chee Pritchett (9)
Kelly (11) ....---- Ges Wilson (7)

(Continued on page &)

Echo

| Departing somewhat from the usual type
}of program, the “Y” vespers Sunday night

presented to the men who attended a most
stirring echo of the Tenth Quadrennial
| Student Volunteer Convention held in De-
| troit, December 28-January 1. The echo
was brought back by the representatives of
Davidson College there: Allan Frew and
Glenn Fry, who told of the convention and
| its inspiration.

The appearance of the speakers was pre-
luded by a short talk by Jim Appleby, in
‘which he expressed the hope that the stu-
| dents had enjoyed the “Y” services of the
| past semester and promised that the services
| for the spring semester will fully measure
{up to the others. He concluded with an in-
| troduction of the already well-known men as
| “just two of us.”

| Glenn Fry as first speaket took up a prac-
tical explanation of what the conference was
and what was done.

His talk was in substance as follows :

This convention was. a_gathering of stu-
dent volunteers to the service of missions
from all parts of the world. <A similar con-
ference is held every four years—one for
every student generation. The Detroit con-
vention was the tenth one Of this kind. North
Carolina sent 60 men as representatives at
this meeting. One of the most striking
things of the meeting was, the international
aspect created by the varied representatives.

The building used was the Masonic tem-
ple, which was built at a cost of $11,000,000.
The auditorium of this building, which has
a seating capacity of 4,000, was nearly filled
at each conference.

(Continued on page 2)
