TDA VID SONIAN

FOR A BETTER ‘DAVIDSON

Vol. XV.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, LN. C., MARCH 22, 1928

No. 24

Bob Kell Elected President of Student Body

Dp)

—o—-

As IN, BROWN IS EDITOR OF DAVIDSONIAN FOR COMING YEAR

——__

Newspaper Honor Given
to Texas Boy as Result
of Student at Body Voting

Pritchett, Moriarity a and Lake Nom-
inated for Office in Reward for
Services

LAKE SECOND

New Editor Enters Upon Duties
April 19

Aubrey N. Brown, Jr., of Mineral Wells,
Texas, was elected to the editorship of The
Davidsonian, the weekly newspaper of the
college, when the final ballot was run last
Saturday, defeating Raymond Lake in the
final reckoning. Election to the editorship
of The Davidsonian, considered one of the
highest honors on the local campus, carries
with it a large degree of prominence and
prestige.
, In the two balfots cast last Friday and

Saturday, Brown defeated W. K. Pritchett,
John B, Moriarty and Raymond Lake, all of
whom received nominations to the executive
office in reward of their meritorious service
for The Davidsonian during the three years
they have been in college. Raymond Lake,
of Greenville, Miss., member of Phi Gamma
Delta,“and athletic editor of the paper for
the past year, was second in the race for the
highest office. W. K. Pritchett, of Atlanta,
Ga., a high honor’student of the Junior class,
and debater of repute, was one of the three
managing editors. John B. Moriarty, Rip-
ley, Tenn., Beta Theta Pi social fraternity,

also a high honor student of the class, was,

the third managing editor.
(Continued on page 8)

o
Chorus,

Hundreds Charmed
by Converse Girls

Converse Glee Club made its annual ap-
pearance at Davidson on last Saturday night
under the auspices ofthe Junior class, ren-
dering a varied program to an: audience that
almost filled Shearer and one that was made
up chiefly of the students, their guests and a
few townspeople. The club is always well
received and this year was no exception.

Very.much fretted over and billed as “The
Glorification of the Southern Girl and Forty
of the Fairest,” the Converse Glee Club held
reception committees and expectant indi-
viduals waiting for more than three hours
only, after hope was beginning to ebb, to
show ‘up. Hurriedly dressing, the members
began their program that a patient audience
had waited over an hour for. The manager
of the club explained the late arrival in terms
of car trouble and bad highways.

The program was divided into two parts,
the first being the classical. This part of the
program consisted of selections of the chorus
ensemble, chorus with sub-parts, solos, violin
solos, and three selections by the director of
the club which were well received. Miss
Kirby, on the violin, offered two delightful
numbers. The second part presented the
most varied part of the program and con-
sisted of everything from an Oriental dance
to real comical ‘skit. Costumes of mixed
colors and amusing designs added color and
pep to this second part that the former lack-
ed, and it was perhaps the -most entertaihing
of the two types of entertainment offered.

The following is the program rendered:

Part I—Now, E’en. Now (Bellini) ;
Whither Coen)? ; Tally-Ho! (Leoni) :

Ya!

(Continued on page= 8)

Pritchett and Grady Return
From Debate Tour of North

With a verdict of two defeats and one no-
decision contest, W. K. Pritchett and R. C.
Grady, returned Saturday from the North-
ern debating trip after having competed with
Hampden-Sidney, George Washington, and
University of Pittsburgh.

The first debate of the trip was held in
the chapel of Hampden-Sidney College, on
Tuesday night. Winston Block and David
Keese, of Hampden-Sidney, upheld the af-
firmative side of the query, Resolved, That
the United States should cease to protect by
force of arms capital invested in foreign
lands except after formal declaration of war.
After a very close contest, Hampden-Sidney
was awarded the decision of the judges by
a vote of two to one,

Moving on northward, our debating team

next engaged the team-of-George Washing=

ton University on the following night. Here
the query read: Resolved, That the United
States should cease to protect by force of
arms*capital invested in foreign lands. D.
L.: Hatch and Karl Frisble upheld the af-

firmative side of this question. No decision’

was given.

After traveling all day Thursday, Prit-
chett ‘and Grady tackled the Panthers of
Pittsburgh in Ambridge, Pennsylvania, near
the home lair. The University, represented
by John Philips and Robert Young, upheld
the affirmative of the same query used at

(Continued: on page 8)

Five Are Chosen In
Fresh Oratoricals

The preliminary Freshman oratorial con-
test was held in Shearer Hall on Friday

night, March 9th, with eight Freshmen com-’

peting for the honors. The contest this
year was the first of its kind to be held at
Davidson, as those in previous years have
been strictly declamations. The men chosen

to speak in the finals to be held either the |

last of May or the first of April are: P. W.
Glidewell, J. C. Matthews, Bob Overman,
Bill Rembert, and J. H. Dennis, alternate.

The Freshman contest in past years has
been in the form of a declamation and the
wainer given a medal during the com-
mencement program. Plans thus far are to
award some recognition but not necessarily
at the close of the school year. Henry
Powell formulated the idea of having the
Freshman ortorical and followed his plan
through |by taking charge of it. Keen inter-
est was shown by the contestants as well ds
a number of students and townspeople.

The speeches as presented were of a rather
high order and well delivered. A number
of the talkg were, on well thought out sub-
jects and P. W. Glidewell was permitted by
the contestants to give a declamation, as his

(Continued on page 8)

Local R.O.T.C. Unit to
be Inspected April 4th
by High Army Officials

Lieut-Col. Merriam and Major Mc-
Caughey, Staff Officers, to Inspect
Southern U Units

HERE WEDNESDAY

‘Inclement Weather Retards Prog- |

ress of a Battalon Drill

On Wednesday, April 4th, Lieut. Col.
Henry C. Merriam and Maj. W. J. Mc-
Caughey, staff officers from the War De-

partment, will arrive at Davidson for the | speeches,

annual R. O. T. C. honor school inspection.
These officers will make a thorough inspec-
tion of the R. O. T. C. unit here and Da-!
vidson’s remaining an honor military unit '
depends upon their report.

Colonel Merriam and Major McCaughey
will arrive in Charlotte early Wednesday
morning and will be driven to the campus
by Capt. R. D. Daugherty, commandant of
the Davidson unit. Classroom work will be
inspected during the first three periods Wed-
nesday morning. This inspection will cover
a section in each of the four classes. Regu-
lar classroom work will go on under the
eyes of the inspecting officers.

At the fifth period, regular military drill
period, the battalion will be formed on the
D. road and marched to the Freshman field
as usual. A calisthenics drill will be put on
under the command of Cadet Major H. B.
Arbuckle. Immediately following will come

(Continued on page 8)

Impressive Message is
Given by Mac Richards

Y Vespers

“Men of Davidson College! What stand-
ard of value do you bear?” was the stir-
ring interrogation of Mac Richards before
the students at Vespers last Sunday evening.
His very impressive talk was centered about
“Two Standards of Value,” one of which
must be borne by every man.

A goodly number were present to hear

Richards speak, and to hear Mrs. Cullum !
sing a solo, entitled, “God Is Love,” accom-

panied on the piano by Miss Hattie Thomp-
son,

“Take heed, and beware of covetousness:
for a man’s life consisteth not in the abund-
ance of things which he possesseth,” from
Luke 12:15, formed the central theme of the
speaker’s message.

The first of the two standards set forth
was that of “The Rich Man, Dives.” This

'rich man was probably in good standing with

the Jewish Religious leaders, and he bore
the standard of luxury and ease. He was a
man of: success in the eyes of the world, but
sadly deficient in terms of spiritual success.
He, in his prosperity, did not think-of the
service that he might render to mankind
with his riches, but planned how he could
accumulate even greater riches and revel in
their luxury.

« The speaker pointed out the fact that, we
of today, amid our prosperity and wonders of
science; are prone to forget God and the
source of our good things. He urged those.

Henry Powell Wins
Oratorical Tryout

Speaking on preventing war through the
World Court, thereby preventing the United
States using force of arms in protection of
property abroad, Henry Powell, president of
the Forensic Council and also chief exec-
‘utive of the state forensic organization, won
| the local tryouts for the Statewide Peace
Oratorical contest here recently.

This contest will be helteat Elon in the
near future. Its object is to
thought on war and peace. There is,a large
cash reward offered to the winner of the
state contest.

Three’ men _ participated in the trial
F. Dewolfe Miller and Reid Gra-
ham were the other two contestants. Gra-
ham’s plan for war prevention was by a
jreferendum of the whole people before or
when war is declared. Miller, who is alter-
nate to Powell, advanced the plan of remov-
ing the causes of war by giving the public a
| full knowlédge of the horrors of war and
by removing prejudice and misunderstand-
ing. The three plans, World Court, Refer-
endum and Removing of the Causes practi-
cally cover the field of war prevention
methods.

| Although only three men entered the con-
test, those present expressed their approval
of the high level of the speeches. The
judges were Dr., Lingle, Dr. Vowles, Pro-
fessor Lilly, Professor Moore, and Profes-
sor Grow.

| This is the second oratorical try-out to be
held this year. Allan Frew was selected in
the first contest to represent Davidson in a
state-wide meet on the Constitution of the
, United States to be held here. These con-
tests, together with the ambitious program

(Continued on page 8)

stimulate

Highest stenbe: Offered
Davidson Men is Won
by Mississippi Student

Pritchett and Brohard Are Chosen as
New Vice-Presidents for Coming
Year—Covington Sec.-Treas.

‘New Student Officers Are All Out-
standing Men

Bob Kell was elected president of the stu-
dent body on the second ballot in the second
student body election of the year. There
were four men nominated for the office of
student body president by the nominating
committee of the Student Couricil; none
were nominated from the floor. Of these
four, two were dropped after the first bal-
lot, and the second and last ballot was. run
between John Melton and Bob Kell, with Kell
as winner. The other two men nominated
for the office were “Mac” King and Nelson
Myers. The final ballot for the presidency
was one of the closest that has been held for
years.

In the elections for vice-president four
men were nominated from the rising Junior
class; these four were Carl Pritchett, Tom
Brohard, “Doc” Henderson, and Allan Frew.
On the first ballot Pritchett was elected as
the first vice-president, none of the ,others
receiving sufficient votes to be elected to the
second vice-presidency, so the second ballot
was cast between Tom Brohard and “Doc”
Henderson, the next two highest to Prit-
chett. In this election Tom Brohard was
elected the second vice-president of the stu-
dent body.

Three men were nominated by the nomi-
nating committee of the Student Council

(Continued on page 8)

“Industry Secret of Success
In Law,” Says Mr. S. Williams

Phi Beta Kappa To
Initiate Neophytes

Phi Beta Kappa will not hold a public
initiation this spring, but the candidates re-
cently bid will receive their charge and mem-
bership proper at a meeting to be heétt on
May 25th, the week preceding the commence-
ment exercises. It has been the custom of
Phi Beta Kappa in the past to hold only one
public initiation each year, this coming in
the fall. At this time both students and

alumni are taken into the order. In the
spring only students are bid.

Four men received the coveted bids last
week: C. F. McRae, W. B. Bradford, J.
M. Akers, and J. P. McKnight. It is one
of Davidson’s greatest honors to receive an
invitation to join Phi Beta Kappa, and this
bid is significant of consistently good work.
Phi Beta Kappa was established nearly 200
years ago at old William and Mary College.
Ever since its founding, every college man
of high ambition along scholastic lines has
cherished a secret hope of joining the ranks
of the chosen few, and so it is entirely fit-

men that are going either into the ministry, ting that this scholastic order should occupy

law, medicine, politics, or any other field,

(Continued on page 8)

the high | place which it does in nearly every
Ae cchas school.

“The secret of getting along in the profes-
sion of law is more a matter of industry and
plenty of hard work than anything else.”
Thus spoke Mr. S. Clay Williams, chief at-
torney for the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Com-
pany, last Wednesday night, in Shearer Hall.
Mr. Williams’ subject was “Law in Gen-
eral,”

Mr. Williams began his address by urging
all young men to look upon law as a possible
profession. ‘Law to the young lawyer is no
more than a bread and meat proposition at
the very first. But your life in whatever
field you choose is only a bread and meat
proposition at first, because of pride alone,
if not financially,” he said.

“The young lawyer starts out at a very
bare place in the financial scale of life; but
he has youth and equipment. To go with
this youth and equipment, though, he must
have tireless energy in order to apply these
other assets to his advantage. There. is no
doubt that the average person can make the
bread and meat proposition of law and can
then rise higher and higher in it if he works
hard enough.

He stated that many people have the idea
that, if there is an old lawyer in the com-
munity, a young lawyer has no chance. “This
idea is false,” he stated. “The mere fact
that there is an old lawyer there means that
there is work for the young one. The old
lawyer is always busy weeding Gt ok We

(Continued on page 8)

