THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 2, 1928

en

-- Sport Talk -:
News and Views of
Wildcat Events

By Raymond Lake

Football, the king of college sports, is
again taking its place as the center of inter-
est on many of the college campuses. When

# the call was issued last Monday for spring
practice, around 50 would-be gridiron stars
turned out for practice on the Wildcat field,
and have been hard at work since then. It
is interesting as well as discouraging to note
how many of last year’s team will not be
back in the Wildcat uniform next year.
Harrison. Nishet, and Grey. .the three
Seniors in last year’s backfield. will all grad
uate, and Ed Wilson, last vear’s quarter, has
withdrawn from school and will not be in
the line-11n in 1928. Laws, Melton, Arro-
wood, Wearn, McGeachy and others will
sadly missed in the line also. Some good
material will come up from the Freshman
class, but there is room for much more, and
unless more good athletes start coming to
Davidson in the next few years, the future
of Wildcat atheltics will not he so bright.

However, to offset the gloom cast by the
loss of so much good football material, we
have at least one athlete who will prove a
winner for the Wildcats in the person of
John Currie, captain of the Davidson track
team for 1928. Quite a bit of doubt was
current during the fall as to whether Currie
would be here this spring, but he is here now
and has registered and will lead the ’28 track
team as captain. Quite a bit was said in
this column last spring about the possibility
of Davidson having a man in the Olympic
meet next year. There still isa possibility
of this, and if it can be worked out it will
certainly be a help and an advertisement for
the Wildcats. Currie has proven his ability
on the track, and would ‘no doubt carry off
high honors if he were to enter the meet.
As was stated in this column last spring, it
would be mighty fine to have the world’s
100 yard dash record held by “Currie of
Davidson.” There is nothing which would
do the school more good and which is more
sorely needed by Davidson than just such an
advertisement as this.

‘

Wrestling fans and all true Wildcats have
a treat in store for them in the form of a
wrestling match next Saturday night he-.
tween Captain Garrison, of. the Wildcat
team, and the captain of the Tar Heel team.
The whole meet will he interesting, but this
match promises to be especially close. The
Tar Heel captain claims to have never been
thrown, and Garrison has never been thrown
in a meet. A real treat is in store for those
who appreciate a good wrestling match.

The basketball season, though seemingly
just getting well under way, is really not
very far from the end. The team will be
leaving on the Southern trip in a week ‘or so,
and the home game is played before the
beginning of the trip. After the Southern
trip, there is a three-day trip North, and
then the cage season will be closed for an-
other year. If there is not a change in the
way most of the games have come out so far,
“the Wildcat season will be a decided failure.
We're probably ‘a little ahead of time in
speaking of the close of the season just yet,
however. Many things could happen be-
tween now and the end of the season. Duke
has the lead and is the favorite for state
honors so far. Their game with the Tar
Heels Saturday will prove interesting and
will tell much to those who wish to predict
the champions,

“The Wildcat baseball team will have a
pretty full season this year with 22 games
on schedule. The pending game with the
University of Pennsylvania here will be a
good draw if it can be arranged. Davidson
needs more games with larger teams. Even
if we lose, playing a larger and well-known
team helps out quite a bit and is a ad-
vertisement.-It-will be time for, baseball
practice to start ina few days, The season
opens with 4 game here with Oak Ridge on
‘March 23rd, and the diamond stars will have
to start their work-outs before very long to
get in chape for the Oak Ridge team. ©

Nine Strong Teams Still

Remain on Wildcat List

Quintet to Attempt Come-Back
After Losing Three Games

Nine games remain on the Wildcats’ 1928
basketball schedule, offering more than ample
opportunity for the Red and Black ‘cagers to
recuperate from the “slump” that has cost
starts.
Whether the Wildcat quintet possesses the

them three defeats in as many

strength to add games to the “win” column

is at present_a matter of conjecture, despite

the fact that confidence is expressed on
every hand in the potentialities of the David-
son team.

The Wildcat cagers are admittedly weak
in the matter of passing and shooting, and
until improvement is shown in these two de-
partments of play, chances of a comeback
are slim. Slow and inaccurate passes com-

bined with poor shooting have left the Wild-
cats trailing their opponents in all three of}-™~

their inter-collegiate contests.

The Davidson players have demonstrated

no lack of vim in their eagerness. to follow
the ball, and their defensive tactics have been
unusually praiseworthy. But,
failite to follow-up the long
proved costly.

shots has

Coach Younger is at work remedying the

most apparent weaknesses, and there is: still
considerable optimism among supporters of
the Wildcat quintet. That Captain Wilson
and his team-mates will pull through in cred-

Davidson’s

Wake Forest Yearlings
to Meet Fresh Tonight

Only Two More Games Scheduled
on Home Grounds

The Davidson Wildkitten basketball team
will be seen in action tonight for the first
time since exams, when they take on the
Freshman team from Wake Forest. The
Wildkittens have a fast passing’ team and the
game promises to be worth-while from start
to finish. u

On the 23rd of February, Coach “Monk”
Mattox’s charges will take on the basket
team from Bingham prep school, a school
located in’ Asheville, N. C. These are the
only two games which the Freshmen are
scheduled to play on home grounds. These
two teams are rated among the best teams in
the state, and the Wildkittens will have to
play real basketball every minute to. beat
them,

After these games the ’Kittens will make
a trip through the state. On this trip they
will meet the Freshman teams from such
schools as Carolina, Duke and State, togeth-
er with several other teams.

The Freshmen this year have an A-1 bas-
ketball team, a fact that anyone who has
seen them in action will vouch: for, and
should make a strong bid for the'state cham-
pionship; Just before exams they played the
strong Oak Ridge aggregation, and lost to

them in the last few minutes of play by the
heartbreaking margin of one point.

The

itable fashion is the opinion expressed gen- | men who have been outstanding so far are:

erally about the campus.

| Rusk, McAllister, and Goodson. These men

Saturday’s contest with Elon will offer the have been doing .well in every game played

Wildcats an opportunity to shake their jinx, |
and a game with’ the Salisbury “Y” on Mon-
day will provide them. with a chance to defi |
nitely regain their self-confidence. Salis-
bury “Y’’ has been downed already by the
Wildcats by a 47-43 score, and there is every |
reason to believe that the Davidson boys wi!l
duplicate their feat.

Lenoir-Rhyne will be the next foe, follow- |
ing which the Wildcats will take a four-day
rest. Citadel is next on the schedule, with

the College of Charleston, Clemson, Furman, |

Wofford and Wake Forest following in the
order named.

Concord Grapplers Lose
Second Time to Wildcats

On fast Tuesday night Davidson swamped) *

the Concord “Y” wrestling team for the
second time this season. The match was a
thrilling one from the spectator’s viewpoint,
one thrill following fast upon the heels of
another. Concord did not register a fall or
decision until the final engagement of the
meet, when Umberger, former Duke star,
threw Hampton, of Davidson, in a little over
nine minutes.

Captain Garrison, Hill and Christenbury
won their matches by falls, while Brown,
Flythe and Herriott won by time advantages.

Summary :

Flythe, of Davidson, won over Stirewalt,
of Concord, by a time advantage of one
minute, fifty seconds.

Brown, Davidson, had a time advantage of
seven minutes, forty seconds over Black
welder, Concord.

Herriott, Davidson, had an advantage of
one minute, twenty-nine seconds on Burrage,
Concord.

Captain Garrison, Davidson, threw Nixon,
Concord, in five minutes.

Christenbury, Davidson, threw Hansel,
Concord, in four minutes twenty-five seconds.

Hill, Davidson, threw Erwin, Concord, in
five minutes.

Umberger, Concord, threw Hampton, Da-
vidson, in nine minutes, twenty-five seconds.

ANIMAL SPIRITS

The Montreal tramway servie is suing
McGill University for $1,000 damages done
by students who painted street-cars dur-
ing various periods“of celebration. The
McGill Daily believes it possible that

some of its present. or. former students |

may paint cars for a living, if the Mon-

treal cars ever are painted—“which we|'

doubt”—but it adds that or the whole

McGill graduates are not fortunate
‘enough tq get jobs as skilled painters,

usually resorting to proféssorships, or em-

ployment in insurance o

Wildcat Track Captain
Returns to Lead Team

Mainstay of Last Year’s Cinder
Team Returns

John Currie, Davidson’s “fastest human,”
has returned to the fold after a protracted
absence, and is raring-to feel the cinder track
once mores Much concern had been felt around
the campus\pver Currie’s failure to refurn
last fall, because he had been one of the track
squad’s mainstays and was captain-elect fo-
the season of 1928. The Eastern Carolina
flash placed his name in the state hall of
fame by running the 100 yard dash in 9.6 at
the state meet last spring, a state record and
only one-tenth of a second behind Charlie
Paddock’s world mark of 9:5. He also
walked away. with the 220, and ran on the
relay team that won the trophy cup at the
state meet.

Davidson’s track schedule this spring is
one of the most comprehensive ever under-
taken by a team here, and will require plenty
of fight and ability if the meets are to he
placed on the winning side of the ledger.

Frye, Leftwich, Kell, Melton, Brown,
O’Neal, and» Currie, are letter men from
last year around whom the team must be
built. Several promising Sophomores are
coming up, chief among whom are Whittle,
Brohard, Gardner_and Lafferty.

so far. The line-up for the game tonight is
not definitely known, but will probably be as
follows: -

Rusk, forward; McCall or Overman, for-
ward; McAllister, center; Goodson, guard;

Proctor, guard.

Davidson Matmen
to Meet Tar Heels

After two victories over the Concord ne
grapplers, the Wildcats will hook up with
the University of North Carolina matmen
here on Saturday afternoon ‘at 4:00 o'clock.
The ’Cats are out for blood this year, be-
cause last season the Tar Heels won by the
one-sided score of 20-3, Captain Frierson be-
ing the only Wildcat to register a win. The
Carolina team will arrive at Davidson some
time Friday afternoon, and, consequently,

| will have a full night’s rest before the meet.

Only three men are left from last year’s
varsity squad, Captain Garrison, Flythe, and
Hill. Some very promising Sophomores have
come out this spring, and several of these
new men are sure: to see action in Satur-
day’s match. Coach Tilson has been working
steadily in an effort to whip his men into
winning shape, and the ’Cats will “take the
mat in a do-or-die spirit. Carolina defeated
Concord “Y” by approximately the same
score that the Davidson men amassed, and,
while comparative scores mean little or noth-
ing as a rule, still it would seem that the
two teams are fairly evenly matched, and a
good scrap is sure to result.

The feature match of the afternoon is ex-
pected to come dut when Captain Garrison,
of Davidson, hooks up with Abbott, of Caro-
lina, in the 145 class. Abbott is said to have
never been defeated by either a fall or a de-
cision, and this record speaks for itself. Ev-
erybody around these parts knows Jeff Gar-
rison and his mat prowess. He is probably.
Davidson’s best bet. When these two get
together the fur will fly or we miss our guess
badly.

Carolina will line up as follows: 115,
Moore; 125, Zealy; 135, Thompson; 145,
Abbott; 155, Saunders; -175, Tliford; un-
limited, Morehead. :

Davidson’s line-up will be: 115, Flythe;
125, Brown; 135, Pritchett or Herriot; 145,
Captain Garrison; 155, Brohard or Chris-
tenbury; 175, Hill; unlimited, Warren, Baker
or Hampton.

x

a
'

== Pp

aA

Complete Line of the Most
| Distinctive Stationery = |

for College Men

Plain and Die Stamped

Fountain Pens, Note Books, Ink, Paste, |
Etc.; Victrolas, Records, Films
. We Lend Kodaks

UPERIOR.
ODA
ERVICE

Davidson Book and Stationery Co.

* Where Service sad Quality Reign”

