Vol. XV.

FORA

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

BETTER DAVIDS

SONIAN:

ON

» DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 16, 1928

No. 19

Mr. Kendall Weisiger of Atlanta Orens Dr. Ben Lacy President Phi Literary Society Renews Activities
Vocational Guidance Institute Program Of Union Makes Second _ Under Leadership of O.D.K. and Faculty

d Y. M. C. A. Sponsors Most Extensive
Program of Vocational Guidance
Yet Attempted

FIRST OF SERIES

Mr. Weisiger Represents Southern
- Fell Telephone Company
Monday morning the Vocational Guid-
anee Institute, sponsored by the Y, M.|
C. A., opened the most ambitious of pro-
grams of its kind ever attempted in south- |
ern colleges and universities. With a:
Program of six weeks, during which time
six vocations will be studied, Davidson
has made herself a leader in the field of |
helping the student in determining his |
life work.

Mr. Kendall Weisiger, of Atlanta, a rep-
resentative of the Southefn Bell Tele-
phone Company, opened the series of lec-
tures with a talk to the student body on
the general topic of vocations. Mr. Wei-
siger has for years past been interested in
Davidson men and has from time to time
chosen members of the graduating classes,
and given them positions in his company.

The high spots of Mr. Weisiger’s talk
were as follows. Work at the job you
have, _Self-analysis is necessary for de-
cision of field. The most successful yoca-
tion is the one that arises from an avoca-
tion, Analyze the points of the job of-
fered. Use your leisure time to the best
advantage. Don’t take your diploma too
seriously.

Mr. Weisiger asserted that man's ulti-
mate aim was happiness, and that happi-
ness could only come from his work.
Man succeeds best in the field that cap-
tivates his interests. Men are born with
certain natural endowments and when
best: fitted he does his best work. It is
therefore necessary to analyze oneself
before choosing any line of work. One
must also travel about, go from coast to

(Continued on page 8)

Withdrawal List is |
Smallest On Record

Fewer changes in the student body en- |
rollment are recorded in the Registrar's |
office this semester than in any recent |
year. College authorities are very much |
gratified that such is the case—this being |
excellent evidence that Davidson is grad-_|
ually reaching a higher standard. |

Only seventeen men withdrew from col- |

fa BY

Davidson Matmen

The Davidson matmgn last Saturday
night lost to the Virginia Military In-
stitute grapplers by a score of 13 1-2
g1-2. The teams were evenly matched
and in the hotly contested match one fall
Was registered, that coming in the un-
limited class when Christenberry pinned
Haase of V. M. I, to the mat in the credi‘-
able time of 5:38. Three of the bouts
went extra periods, one of these
ending in a draw between Preston, V. M.
and Capt. Garrison, neither grappler
being able to hold the other to the mat.

Flythe started the bout with a time ad-
vantage over Woodward, of V. M. I.
which was followed by the match in which
Thompson, V. M. I grappler, won from
Brown on time. In the next match Field,
V. M. I, won over Herriott with a time
advantage of 2:37. In the remaining
matches Davidson won one with the on-
Iv fall of the bout and lost three, two of
which were carried into extra peériods.
The victory was the fifth straight win
for V.:M. T,

Summery:

115tb class—Flythe, Davidson, defeated
Woodward, V. M. I., in two extra periods,
Time advantage 30 seconds.

135!b class—Thompson, V. M. I
feated Herriott, Davidson.
vantage 2:37. :

145tb class—Preston, V. M. I., and Capt.
Garrison, Davidson, wrestled to a draw in
two extra periods. 5
158tb class—McCrary, V. M. I., defeat-

Brohard, Davidson, in two

(Continued on page 8)

to

into

this season.

de-
ad-

”

Time

ed

I.R.C. Hears Dr. Brown

Two Delegates Chosen

Tyree Dillard and Riggs MsConnell
Named Representatives to South-
ern Conference at Anderson,
South Carolina

The International Relations Club of Da-
vidson met last Friday, with full attend-
ance to hear Dr. C. K. Brown of the
faculty deliver a talk treating the ques-
tion of “Rubber as an Industry, and as
an International Commerce.” Dr, Brown
gave a message of vital interest, and pro-
voked quite a bit of thought among his

extra |

lege at the end of the first semester, ten | hearers. He incorporated in the body of
of this number being required to with-| his:remarks a discussion of rubber in its
draw because of their failure to make a| elation as a British monopoly; Britain

passing grade on three major subjects. |
The remaining seven men left school of
their own accord, some to take up work
at technical schools, one to enter West |
Point, and another because of financial |
reasons. The number of failures is only |
about one-half the number of last year, |
showing a marked improvement in the
scholastic standing of the student body.

Coming in to take up work the second
semester were ten new students, all of
whom are old Davidson men who have
been out of school for a time. Two of
this number are completing senior work
and will be graduated in the spring with
the present senior class :

The entrance of these two students in-
to the class of ’28 raises its enrollment to
a total of 127, the largest senior class en-
rollment in the history of the college.
Two hundred and sixty-nine men rigis-
tered in the fall of 1924, so nearly fifty
per cent. of this number will graduate.
Such a percentage of graduates from the
number of registered freshmen will bea
usually good record. ‘ ;

commanding sixty-five per cent of the |
Following Dr. Brown’s|

world’s supply.
speech there was a round-the-table dis-
cussion of various subjects of an interna-
tional character.

At the meeting the coming Southern
Conference of the International Relations
Clubs was considered. This conference
is to be held at Anderson, S. C., during the
days of March 8, 9, and 10. Two mem-
bers of the local club were elected to go
as delegates: Tyree Dillard president of
the Davidson Club, and Riggs McCon-
nell. These men among other delegates
will have an unusual opportunity to hear
some of the most outstanding men in the
various international fields, Among the
biggest men at the Conference will be
Baron Alphonse Heyking of the Univer-
sity of Dorpat. The opportunity of hear-
Mr. Heyking will be possible to every
Davidson man, for definite plans have
been made,to have him here during the
latter part of March.

The meeting adjourned with the next

(Continued on page 8)

~ Talk of Y.M.C.A. Series

First Week of Vocational Guidance
Institute Devoted to Ministry

PERSONAL INTERVIEWS

Group of Ministers Offer Counsel
and Advice

Wednesday night Dr. Ben Rk. Lacy,
President of Union Theological Seminaty
of Richmond, Va., spoke in Shearer Hali
to the students on choosing the ministry
as a life work,

In his talk Dr. Lacy echoed the thought
advanced by Mr. Weisiger, that happiness
is one of the main that deter-
mine a man’s oceupation. But he
added that in the choice of the ministry the
element of duty should be felt. The con-
sideration of the ministry as a vocation
differs from .that of others in that it
only addressed to Christians. Any man
can become a banker, lawyer, or farmer,
but only he who has definite faith in
God can enter the ministry.

motives

also

is

Dr. Lacy concisely outlined the disad
vantages of entering the ministry, and
with logic and reason outbalanéed the
disadvantages with the advantages. The
| disadvantages are:

1 The man intending

(Continued on page 8)

Ministerial Call

Theme of Talk by
Seminary Student

to become a

“The personal appeal which the min-

jistry has for me” was the subject of the |

/message which W. E. Gardner, president
lof the student body at Union Seminary

brought the members of the Davidson Y,
M. C. A. at vespers Sunday evening in
Shearer Hall. Mr. Gardner was intro-
duced by W. A. Christian, former David-
sonian, but now a student at Union.

“The call to be a preacher may not be
| dramatic like Paul's; it may come as a
‘quiet urging from within. Yet
‘speaks to men in this ‘still small voice’
|just as truly as in the days of old when
| He called His servants by means of awe-
‘inspiring visions.

“Some men enter the ministry because
their friends urge this step upon them;
others have a
which they wish to use to possible ad-
vantage,”

In the second place, the call to the min-
istry constitutes an appeal to the whole
personality of a man. His social, intel-
lectual, physical, and spiritual natures are
all channenged to enter a great fight on
the side of Truth. The struggle between
the mechanist and purposivist in psychol-
ogy, between the idealist and materialist
in philosophy, between the naturalist and
supernaturalist in science are some spe-
cific instances in which a great fight is
being waged to gain Truth.

The fact that the Gospel message is
adequate to meet every situation that
may arise makes the privilege of preach-
ing it very attractive. For the tempted
man ,there is the picture of the tempted
yet sinless Christ; for the sorrowful, a
hope of new life without sorrow. The
love of Christ is needed as much by the
weak as by the strong as has been il-
lustrated in lives of many young college
men.

Then, the minister always has a mes-
sage for the man that has sinned. Jesus
Christ was always willing to forgive one
who had stumbled if the person was truly

(Continued on page 2)

God

because they fine voice

Sophs Plan Annual

| Fete in Charlotte

Plans are now being made for the an
anual class banquet of the class of ‘30.
Recently the executive committee of the
class, consisting of Carl Pritchett, presi
dent, Tom Brohard, vice-president, and
i Frank Brown, and treasurer,
j}met and decided upon a number of com-
| mittees to take care of the details of the
| banquet.

The committees with the names of the

| chairmen are as follows: Banquet com-

}mitte, Allan Frew; program, Jimmy Mat-
| thews; transportation, Joe Gardner ; music,
Charley Orr; finance, Frank Brown, N>
definite action has been®made as yet, but
at work on

secretary

{these committees are

pros-
pective plans.

)} The banquet committe has charge o°
| finding a
‘up a menu, arranging for caterers an)
| servers, fixing the price, and other similar

place for the banquet, makin

Many Old and New Men Respond to
Rally Held Last Thursday Night

NEW SUGGESTIONS

Dr. Brown and Prof. Foreman on
Program

Davidson College will continue to have
literary societies if any efforts the
part of O. D. K. prove successful. The
members of the latter organization have
pledged themselves to help the societies
by regular attendance at weekly meetings
and by assisting in preparing programs.

An announcement by Mr. Jackson as to
the purpose of O. D. K. proved to be a
stimulus to the faithful few who
still fighting desperately to keep alive Da-
vidson's most historic organizations. A
number of men, especially juniors and
recently their inten-
tions of entering once more upon society
work,

Historic old Phi Hall was crowded to
the doors last Thursday night as the Eu-

on

were

seniors expressed

| details. The place wilf in all probabi'ity
| be Charlotte. The chairman states that
\ the committe in communication with
various caterers and that it will make a
|trip to Charlotte soon to make other ten-
| tative plans.

is

| The program committe is arranging for
lone or two speeches at the banquet and
for special rates in order that the entire

class may attend a movie after the ban-

| La be . . .
The transportation committee will make

terms with some bus company for the
carrying of the class to and from Char-
lotte. The duties of the two other com-
mittees interrelate with the program com-
(Continued on page 2)

Pall Cast Over Campus
by Death of Reid Knox

Popular Member of Freshman Class
Dies After Week’s Illness While
Visiting His Home

A shadow of death hung over the cam-
}pus for three days last week, occasioned
by the recent sickness and death of Reid
Knox, popular member of the freshman
class who died at his home in Bear Poplar
last Sunday morning.

Reid left school a week before his death
to visit his family over the week-end, but
became sick shortly after his arriva! there.
His sickness was diagnosed by physicians
as infantile paralysis accompanied with
spinal disorders and a very high fever.

| Reid Knox entered school with the pres-
jent freshman class, last September wy
jsince that time made a spleitdid reco

for himself while here. He was an ex-
! : eer” aa
|cellent student and was.a’ candidaté for

halted him, but with examinations over.
he started spring football training. He
‘was out for football up until the time he
‘left school for his home,

He was in the fullest sense a true Chris-
tian gentleman. His quiet sincere nature
made him admired and loved by all those
who knew him as friend and compan‘on,
to whom his sudden sickness came as a
real shock.

Reid is survived by his father and
mother, Mr. and Mrs. S. Reid Knox, of
Bear Poplar, and five sisters The David-
son student body extends its heart-felt
sympathy to his family and shares with
them their keen sense of loss.

| quet. |

l

j Menean and Philanthropic united to hear
an extemporaneous debate between Pro-
fessors Brown and Foreman on the sub-
ject, “Resolved, That co-education should
adopted at Davidson,” Professor
Brown in upholding the affirmative side
ofthe question kept the audience in an
uproar with his “Fourteen Points,” while
Foreman scored some telling
shots on the negative.

he

Professor

Following this feature number the
meeting was thrown open for a general
discussion of the literary society situation.
Professor Erwin, an old alumnus of the
Phi, made a brief talk in which he ex-
pressed the hope that society work could
be put back on the plane which it de-
served to occupy.

Professor Currie followed with a few
words on the way literary society training
helps a man to meet emergencies in later
life. He expressed the hope that the new-

(Continued on page 8)

Furman Wins Glee
Club Championship

Furman sang its way to the champion-
ship of the south in the second annual
meet of the Intercollegiate Glee Club As-
held at Greenville, S. C. last
Friday night. This championship was
won from competing clubs of the south-
district the states of
South Carolina, North Carolina, Virginia,
Alabama, and Florida. These states were
represented by the Glee Clubs of Fur-
man University, South Carolina, Duke
University, North Carolina, University of
Virginia, Virginia, University of Ala-
bama, and University of Florida, Florida.

Furman, now the champion of the
south, will, by virtue of its recent con-

sociation

ern composed of

the freshman football and” basketball quest, be entitled to enter the national
teams. He was out for basketball until contest that will be held at New York
the strain of examinations temporarily some time in March, At this contest the

winners of the district championships of
the United States will all compete. Fur-
man was also the winner of the south-
ern championship last year.

Among the honor guests at the recent
contest was Mr. Alfred F. Pickernelle, of
New York, president of the National As-
sociation of Glee Clubs. One of the big
features of the meeting in addition to the
contest was a chorus composed of one
thousand male voices. This chorus was
made up of the voices of the competing
ciubs attendant at the contest, augmented
by the addition of the Glee Clubs of Wof-
ford College, University of South Caro-
lina, Erskine College, Presbyterian Col-

(Continued on page 5) a

