Page Two

THE DAVIDSONIAN

November 1, 1928.

THE _DAVIDSONIAN |

Published Weekly by the Students of
anes’ Davidson College

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy
$2.00 the Collegiate Year. Entered as second
class matter at the Post Office, Davidson,
North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands
Xj the Mansginw Editors by 7:00 p. m.,
Monday. Ayonymous articles will
not be published.

..-Editor-in-Chief

y WN. ce
eh eet -Bnsiness Manager

W. M. POWELL.-.

EDITORIAL STAFF
MILLER... ........—... Managing
PRA’ --Managing
.-Managing
.-Sports
--INCWSs
Society
Feature

Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor

pr Sr><mSU
Das,

--Associate
---Associate
peacvekian Associate

EMOSMON<SNROM

BUSINESS STAFF

L. A. .--Asst. Bus. Mgr.
E. H. McCALL. -Asst. Bus. Mer.
W. B. McGUIRE. -Asst. Bus. Mgr
R. F. S P. Circulation Mer.
H. B. JENNINGS. ubscription Mgr.
H. McLEAN - jolicitor
G. D. EVERINGTO -Solicitor
. A. CANNON...-.. -Solicitor
ii. DiMA) ORS diaseteseccoc sic oes olicitor
REPORTERS’ CLUB
>» Le BD Yinas case nase cc scnccconegncn- Fb fegiaent
k. W. eDERMID. .--Vice- President
E. S. HEEFNER...-...-.- cretary-Treasurer
P. R. ALDERMAN yy F. PRESTON
Cc. H. DUBOSE . C, RAGIN
. R. GRA D, RUSK
k W. KIRKPATRICK, Wy R. WEAVER
S. H i

° G . WILEY
i MCBRYDE J. V. D. MIDDLETON

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1928

~

The Davidsonian
Wants

—to welcome the N. C. C. P. A.
delegates.

—an overturned dope-bucket and
a victory over the Flying
Squadron.

—to thank the Administration for
installing window shades in the
various dormitories.

—to thank the Lecture Commit-
tee for the first of a series of
addresses by authorities in va-
rious lines. The Davidsonian
hopes that many fine speakers
will be brought here during the
year.

WELCOME DELEGATES!

Davidson’s publications, her stu-
dent body, and faculty, welcome to
the campus, representatives of the
various college and university publi-
cations of the state for a three-day
conclave. Host to the eighth semi-
annual meeting, Davidson opens her
doors today for the sixteenth ses-
sion,

Much of value may be forthcom-
ing from a meeting of this nature,
where men and women, thinking in
terms of greater usefulness to their
institutions, get together and ex-
change ideas.. Such a meeting may,
indeed, be instrumental in leading
to a more intensive activity along
better and more profitable lines.

Not least to be gleaned from the
meetings, are the suggestions from
speakers of this state who represent
the journalistic profession grown up.
Men with a practical view who can
drive home their ideas to eager lis-
teners have been secured for this
occasion,

Realizing that too much work,
even by pen-wielders, would lead to
monotony, a delightful program of
entertainment has been arranged by
the Davidson - Queens committee.
Just forget how much it takes to fill
a column and how terrible those re-
porters are and lose yourself in the
merriment of the occasion. We're
glad you’re here.

OPPORTUNITY FOR THE
JUNIOR EDITORS

That those members of the edi-
torial staff of The Davidsonian who
are juniors may obtain some experi-
ence in writing editorial matter, and
that, at the same time, more repre-
sentative thought may be brought in,
‘we are devoting a space in this col-
umn each week to their expressions.

Too often it occurs that the editor-
elect finds himself without sufficient
experience in this type of writing.
This plan should alleviate the prob-

- ability of such an occurrence.

Attempts are made constantly to
have student opinion expressed in
the Open Forum column, but this is
usually unsuccessful. It is difficult
to crystallize the opinion of others.

*|gree the critic charges.

The added editorial will give oppor-
tunity for more than one man’s ideas
in the column.

ACTION IN THE NOVEL

America is far more interesting
than would be believed from reading
the American, novel, believes R. le
Clere Phillips, writing in the Book-
man. He cannot 'think of a single
American novel which would ever
have aroused in him a desire to see
the country.

In English, novels, even though
the story, the characterization, or
some one of a number of things,
may be most important, there is, in
the background, the life and man-
ners of England, in Mr. Phillips’
opinion,

Guilty, we say, but not to the de-
America’s
watchword is action. The country
is in a hurry. To be appealing to
the public, the story must have drive
and action about it. But Mr. Phil-
lips, thinks one, forgets Washington
Irving’s studies of old Dutch New
York in the early days, as well as
later writers. There surely must be
an attractiveness in the pictures of
the Indiana of the forties Booth
Tarkington can draw or George Ca-
bell’s creole New Orleans or Mary
Johnson’s Virginia.

The’ potential great American
novelist must be too busy catching
up with the great American fortune
to draw the country as he draws its
people.

HONOR SYSTEM

Under fire in many of the colleges
and universities is the Honor Sys-
tem. Discussion ragés pro and con
and nothing is settled. Some of the
larger colleges have abandoned the
system, saying that it does not work,
others have only reaffirmed their be-
lief in the ‘fundamental honesty of
man,”

But despite the action taken by
some of the leading institutions, the
question is still alive in a majority
of the colleges. There is only one
way to settle the matter, take.a com-
prehensive survey of all the colleges
that possess the Honor System. If
it works, in a majority of the insti-
tutions, it is evident that the system
is worthwhile. A classification could
be made of the chief criticisms and
arguments for and this be used as a
basis for a nation-wide investigation:

Is there any real criticism of the
Honor System? The one most often
used, is that although the honor sys-
tem is in effect at a college, profes-
sors or assistants still stay in the
room where pledge work is being
done. Some claim that this shows
the faculty does not trust the men,
and thus show their disbelief in the
honor system, and so, if the faculty
does not believe in the system, then
surely the students cannot be expect-
ed to believe in it too. Why? Mere-
ly because there is someone in au-
thority in the room, is that any rea-
son why he does not believe in the
honor of the student? A professor
may remain to be able to help the
student in clearing up some part of
the paper. Also, why should an hon-
est man “gripe” about-a professor
staying in the room? He does not
need to -worry. Only a dishonest
person will worry betause there is
someone there to see him.

Even if there are some dishonest
men, is that a condemnation of the
Honor System? The few dishonest
ones are the exception to the rule,
and need someone to weed them out.
Ii everyone was perfectly honest,
there would be no need for any sys-
tem. So, may the Honor System
grow and flourish!

R.F. J.

A Colorado Springs doctor says
men would do well to imitate wom-
en’s scantiness of'clothing. The doc
ought to know more about anatomy
than to make a remark’'like that.

Let’s see; who was the president
whose election was assured by the
Literary Digest’s other national

poll?—Beacon Journal.

Cosmic Chaos
By J. W. McCutchan

When this column next appears the
country at large will know, without a
doubt, the results of the presidential elec-
tion. It has been the earnest endeavor of
this writer to avoid as far as possible any
political altercation. Yet such an event
of major importance cannot escape un-
noticed. The question of party loyalty is
left to the voter's conscience. However,
it is a pity that of late there has been
quite a bit of “mud-slinging.”

First: a few religious and moral en-
thusiasts have, to some degree, misrep-
resented certain self-evident facts. The
most cardinal of which is: that an effort
to amend a law should not be regarded as
an attempt to break that law. It should

duties of the governor of a state are to
enforce the state constitution, leaving the
enforcement of Federal laws to Federal
authorities.

On the other hand; obvious attempts
have been made to defame the character
and honesty of the Republican nominee.
There is no one who is so narrow-minded,
however, who will not admit that Herbert
Hoover has one of the cleanest political
records ever known. It has been one of
service and efficiency. One hopes that the
supporters of both parties will not be
swayed by foolish, propaganda.

Aviation is undoubtedly the future
science of transportation. Both lighter
than air and heavier than air craft are
daily proving their efficiency and value.
Yet only the other day two intrepid fliers
found themselves in the air, literally un-
able to descend. Having risen to a height
of about seven miles, the plane became
coated with ice. The intense cold caused
the metal control instruments to freeze,
leaving the pilot helpless. . For half an
hour the machine remained at practically
the same altitude. After much endeavor,
the flier managed to drop to a warmer
level where it was found that the gas sup-
ply, was exhausted. To some of the un-
initiated the idea of not being able to drop
would be reassuring, but at that it could
prove inconvenient.

Moral: Beware of fortunes and for-
tune tellers! Beautiful Jenny Golder had
the whole of “Gay Paree” at her feet.
Possessed with charms more alluring
than the average, she was \well on~ her
way toward fame. But for five consecu-
tive times the cards foretold that her later
life would be ugly and poverty-stricken.
Unable td bear the thought of this, she
committed suicide. Psychology of the
superstitious is hard to understand.

Paternal pride would be placed on the
rack if Count Leo Tolstoy could see the
position of his son, Ilya. Lecturing about
his father and against bolshevism, he has
become rather well known and recognized
in American ,circles. Ivan, the Terrible,
or Nicholas III would be more horified,
however, at the idea of rich and poor, the
aristocracy and the proletariat reading and
hearing the same addresses.
is in truth a gift of the gods.

Democracy

r

¥
Astounding to science is the announce-
ment of Dr. W. F. Lorenz and Dr. A. Ss.
Loevenhart of Madison, Wisconsin. They
claim a temporary, if not permanent, cure
of insanity. A certain gas is inhaled by
the patient for definite intervals of time,
during which period the individual regains
sanity. The experiment has been tried on
two inmates of the state insane asylum
with signal success. It is believed that a
method will be found which will make
the effect of the gas lasting, at least for
periods of a few days.”

_—

While politicians are seething about in
an attempt to build and tear down the
government, big business progresses in its
efficient manner. Announcement comes
that Chrysler plans to complete the high-
est office building in the world by 1930.
It will be built in New York at a cost of
$14,000,000, and will tower 803 feet above
the street. Presidential campaigns have
little power over the sound of riveting
machines, samples of which may be found
on the campus,

Minor Chords

THE CONTRAST

T sought the light that blue eves give,
You sought for glamor—wild and free.
I lost the hope that helped me live,
You lost the charm you held for me.

I sought the love you could bestow,
You sought cheap love in fancy dress;
You seek the joys that end in woe,
And I—forgetfulness,
—Paul Wynburn.

also be remembered that the greatest |

e r
Hotchpot WANTON WILES
By W. K. Pritchett By Dave Anderson
Oswald Spengler, a German scholar, PENNED BULL
has recently published “The Decline of You see, it’s this way: typewriters are just like alarm clocks. If you drop

the West,” and over one hundred
thousand copies have been sold. He
takes this pessimistic and tragic thesis:
“that civilization is the beginning of
the end, because when things have ‘be-
come’ they are dead, and it is only the
‘becoming’ that is life.” Count Key-
serling recently condemned America
not because it is less “civilized” than
Europe, but more “civilized.”

We may be going to the dogs, but,
as Chesterton says, they are “rather
jolly dogs.”

An oil company bored a hole in
Texas soil to the depth of 8,255 feet.
As no oil has ben located the hole will
be reserved for the native Hoovercrats
to'jump into and pull after them.

Have we too many laws in this
country? There are probably 10,000,-
000 laws and ordinances in theoretical
effect on the statute books of the Uni-
ted States, with 200,000 laws and ordi-
nances being added each year.

Forty-eight state legistlatures, 16,000
incorporated cities, towns and villages,
about 3,000 counties in the law-making
business and more than 10,000 law-
makers, duly elected, are incessantly
busy making new laWs, All of these
do not pertain to individuals, but a
conservative estimate is that there are
30,000 laws, 10,500 of which are federal,
which may affect any one citizen.

U. S. Dutton, in Amermican Mag-+

azine, declared, “Justinian felt that 2,-
000 laws were enough to rule the Ro-
man empire.” The Justinian Code,
completed in 533 A. D., became the
groundwork of the present law sys-
tems of Italy, of France and of Ger-
many.

Now we have laws covering every-
thing from the length of beds in col-
lege dormitories to the number of
words in Hotchpot. There are’ good
laws, bad laws and freak laws, all of
which cost money. Milton must have
been surrounded by law books when
he wrote, “Litigious terms, fat con-
tentions, and flowing fees.”

Two million girls under twenty years
of age are working for a living, ac-
cording to the United States labor de-
partment. No estimate was given of
the number engaged in gold digging.

There are now over three million

men under arms in Europe; other
hundreds of thousands have been
called to their colors for training.
France has 686,000 men under arms,
Italy 370,000, England 408,000. Ger-
many and Russie alone have reduced
their armies from what they had in
1913, before the great war, Germany
reduced from 800,000 to 100,000, Russia
from 1,200,000 to 900,00.

In spite of numerous peace treaties
to outlaw war, there seems to be little
indication that swords shall be beaten
into plowshares. However, these
treaties will help to make reason ra-
ther than force the arbiter of disputes,
and conscience rather than vain glory
the guide of policies.

That she
Has charms
IT must
Confess
But what
Are: charms
Without
* Access?
—Dartmouth Jack O' Lantern,

City Boarder: “Milking the cow?”
Hiram: “Naw, just feeling her pulse.”
—Log.

Honored Guest: “Well, I must give
you all my thanks for the fine evening,”

Host: “But you've just arrived.”

Honored Guest: “So I have. But I
must tell you while I know you.”

“It must be awful hard to lose a wife,”
whispered the man at the deathbed of a
friend.” y

“Yes,” agreed Jim.
possible.”

“It’s almost im-

A New York authority says most
people still take baths on Saturday
night. This shows how a custom will
hang on—they used to do it because
they were going to church on Sun-
day.

One is glad to note that the
amount of real money in the United
States figures up to $8,213,615,127,
which gives us $40.82 apiece. If you
have a large enough family, you’re

fixed for the winter.

them on the floor too many times, they'll finally get out of fix.

“Penned Bull’’ seems more appropriate

And that’s why
this week than “The Bull Pen.” But

whether it be typewritten, penned, or written with a pencil, it still remains, forever

and always, BULL.

If it’s all the same to them, the Davidson student body would appreciate “The
Charlotte Observer” picking the Wildcats to lose occasionally. We'll never win a
game this way. They give the 'Cats mighty fine write-ups and et all, but why not be
kind enough to help us win by picking us to lose? Almost everyone was given credit
for making the Wildcats a State Championship team in 1926, from the law of aver-
ages down to Doc Charlie, but we still insist that the credit goes to Jake Wade, then
one of the Observer's sports editors. Jake, like the present editors, gave us very
nice write-ups. But Jake, unlike the present editors, never picked us to win. So we
won. Yours loquaciously would like to see another State Championship at Davidson

might get an army D. D.

4 before becoming a man of letters. Oh yes, we have hopes of an A.B.—though we

WELCOME
This column wishés)to extend a most hearty welcome to the North Carolina
Collegiate Press Convention delegates, fellow spreaders of the printer’s ink, who
come to Davidson for their semi-annual convention this week-end.

Four out of five have IT, and the fifth writes books on IT.

No, my dear Freshman, that is not the Press Convention that meets in your

room every Monday and Thursday nights.

THE SAYINGS OF SOLOMON, THE COLLEGIATE
“It's a wise frat man who knows his own clothes.”

FAMOUS EPITAPHS: On the Grave of an Atheist
“We dressed him up in his very best,
His Sunday tie in a perfect bow,
Folded his hands:
Placed a lily there,
And gently laid him here to rest,
All dressed up and no place to go.”

From the Temple News, of Temple University, Philadelphia, Pa: “At a meet-

ing of the Women’s Vigilance Committee held Tuesday afternoon at one o'clock,
ten more girls were tried and punished.—Some of the punishments meted out were—

two “young ladies of the mob” to do the

well-known finishing act on the steps of

Conwell Hall; one to do the simple task of tracing footsteps on Broad Street; one
to wear the sign around her neck: ‘Please Help the Bum;’ and so on and so on.
Two ‘Frosh’ punished ast week turned in eggs with the signatures of many members

of the faculty upon them.”

We've always wondered why girls always insist on trying to cover their knees
Hall” is, but we were not created without imagination. Altogether, this seems to be
a very novel and effective means of punishment.

Voice from the rear:

“Sit down in front.”

The Front: “Sorry, I can’t fold that way.”

We've always wondered why girls always insist on trying to cover their knees
with “dresses which were built to come three inches above their knees. Please

explain.

Some have camplained that this column is trying to imitate Will Rogers too
much. Why not? He is one of the highest paid humorists in the U. S. We've al-

ways liked Will and Irving S. Cobb since
Bathing Suit in Russia.” Either Will or

we read that little book, “There’s Not a
Irvin wrote it—so we admire them both.

And that ain’t all. From all appearances, there ain’t a barber shop in Russia. Or if
there is, there’s more to that barber shop than just hair-cuts, shaves, singes and

tonics.

OUR OWN FAIRY TALES

Once upon a time there was a college boy who had an ash tray in his room that
was actually used, and there wasn’t a cigarette butt dn the floor,

‘Tis better to have loved and lost, than never to have loved at all,” says the

poet. To be sure, it’s better on the pocketbook. Then, too, oni

Variety is the spice of life, we have been

e is free to love again.
told.

Someone says we published the same joke twice. This from a man in solitary
confinement in the state’s jail, who has nothing to do but read The Davidsonian. No

one else seems to have noticed this mistake on the part of the printer (all news-
paper men blame their mistakes on the printer.)

Contemporary Thought

BOOKS AND EDUCATION

Ohio State Lantern: A Philadelphia
business man, who has made an ex-
tensive study of college graduates and
men lacking college training believes
that of two men going into business,
the one with the intent to go ahead to
the best of his ability, and the other
waiting until he finishes his college
career, the one with less culture will
probably be the most successful.

The investigator explains that the
one who starts in business without an
education reaches a point in his prog-
ress where he can go no further with-
out the aid of books.
other and he soon finds out that he
cannot get along without some of the
things that a college teaches.

All college men absorb some know!l-
edge while in school, but many of
them do not form the desire for books
that is necessary for the grade of cul-
ture demanded for real success. The
man who does not attend college finds
reading books necessary, and he reads
more and acquires a fund of knowl-
edge that the graduate does not pos-
sess, the investigator claims.

While this difference between the
college graduate and the person who
has never attended an institution of
the kind is. exaggerated, it does im-
press the fact that college men do not
appreciate the value of books as they
might.

The time to learn this value is in

school. Once learned it is not soon
forgotten, and, as usually seems the

One calls for an-!

case, a person who is well-read has an
education that is above reproach, With
a library such as Ohio State PoOssesses
a wonderful opportunity is offered to
the student. A few hours spent there
each week would prove of immense
value in the course of a year, and that
is one way that a student can develop
ithe habit, which is of unsurpassed im-
| Portance in his quest of knowledge.

A CUTURAL BACKGROUND

Daily Princetonian: The “broad ed-
ucation” or “cultural background” in-
volves a smattering of this, a term of
that; six months of this course anda
year of that. A few facts here, and a
few facts there. Enough for us to go
out into the world and hold our own
at a dinner party or during a golf
match or with the man we expect to
sell bonds to. Enough to allow us to
enter almost any unspecialized bus-
iness and still seem fairly intelligent in
a casual conversation. — :

It is easy for a man to be cultured
nowadays—our magazines are full of
offers of canned culture at rock bot-
tom Prices. Education implies a cer-
tain specialization, something more
than general superficialities.

There are two trends today in edu-
cational fields: one towards the broad
education, the cultural background,
quickly acquired and superficial, The
other is towards an education more
specialized and therefore more solid.
Princeton has chosen to ally herself

with the’ second trend.
