4

_

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 9, 1928

The Davidsonian
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press

Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
: Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

s the Post
abo yids en Seg the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
19 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

BOYCE MARTIN
M. P. CRAWFORD

EDITORIAL STAFF

A; N. BROWN ........-.....................Mafiaging Editor

W. K. PRITCHETT ... ---Managing Editor

J. B. MORTARITY --....----- -Managing Editor

C.?R; “LAKE. .Athletic Editor

RB. A. WIT SON_ Feature Editor

W. L. LINGLE Associate Editor

F. C. WITHERS -Associate Editor

Te DION BRS ares Ria eee Lor

It Gi WADS WORTH: ciusnens os oo -..-Alumni Editor

K. € PN Ach cola aaa _....-.---..-Exchange Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

R. S. ABERNETHY.-....-._-.-Assistant Business Manager

S. J. ALTISON--.--- ---Assistant Business Manager

W. M. POWELL. ..---Assistant Business Manager

P. J. GARRISON Subscription Manager

B. Wy. DICKSON Circulation Manager

S. W. MORRIS...-......-.........-/------------= Solicitor

W. _B. McGUIR .-Solicitor

E. H. y Solicitor
President

Bis 5 ee sb dened gdabsaccsccancqucuscaseuse Vice-President

f R. GRAHAM...-..-..-. .---Secretary-Treasurer

. P. ANDERSON McDERM

W. _H._ BEST W. _B. HoQueeN

E, T. EDELMAN F. D. MILLER

E. S. HEEFNER V. A. MILTON

M. K. HENDERSON cM. ATT

R. F. J ATT. D. T. STOKES

F. W. JOHNSTON W. R. TREVERTON

Z. V. LONG W. R. WEAVE

J. P. McBRYDE B. A. WILSON

THE LITERARY SOCIETIES

Tonight an attempt will be made to
thoroughly reorganize the literary societies
and put them once more upon firm ground
here at Davidson, The local circle of Omi-
cron Delta Kappa is sponsoring this attempt
to rejuvenate the societies and all interested
in campus activities will watch eagerly the
results of this effort. The local circle be-
lieves that the societies have a place on the
campus here, it believes that the students as
a whole should take a more active interest
in its activities and that these students
would join in more enthusiastically if the
societies were made more interesting and in-
structive.

It is believed that with such an organized
group as the local circle of O. D. K, backing
the societies that they will improve mate-
rially in a number of ways. The main criti-
cism of the societies for the last few years
has been that there are not enough members
of the senior class actively interested in
society work. Each member of the fra-
ternity has pledged to do all that he can to
aid the societies, including joining one of
the two and aiding in every way to make the
societies more active and powerful.

A new feature will be tried for a few
months in the societies, namely that of hav-
ing the faculty members of the two soci-
eties, present at the meeting whenever they
choose and placing them on the program at
regular intervals. In this way it is hoped
that more interest will be created, and also

“that a closer bond of fellowship between
faculty and students will be created. This
plan has been working very successfully at
the University of Georgia. Last week on
the program of one of the societies there
four professors engaged in a heated debate
on a farcical: subject. If something of this
sort can be created here at Davidson it is
believed that the literary societies will be-
come more interesting and entertaining and
attract a larger percentage of the student
body than previously.

Since the “disbanding” or “adjournment”
of one of the societies here a few weeks ago
there has been much comment and criticism
of the action both here on the campus and
among circles of the alumni. Tonight an at-
tempt will be made to revive this society
and plan regular weekly meetings for the
rest of the year. A few of the members of
this society have expressed dissatisfaction
with the action that was taken and these
men will form asnucleus of active workers
around whom it is hoped a live society will
be built.

With the very progressive plans that have
been outlined placed before the eyes of the
students asa whole it is believed that much
more interest will be shown in the societies
than has been evidenced in the past few

caaabey That. seniors, who have only’a few
} mont

Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of

| velop it; this fact should appeal to the un- |

derclassmen and create a new attitude to-
ward the societies, In the past this attitude
of the student body has been extremely
apathetic, but it is hoped that in the future
| this will be changed. :
It would be trite to mention the various
| advantages and excellent points of literary
society work, but each student should con-
| sider this matter carefully in regard to his
| own activities.
| that the societies are “a good thing” and
never attend one. The rejuvenation of the
| societies should appeal to these men and
' make them realize that the societies need
them and that much good can be accom-
plished by mutual activity and co-operation.
A special appeal is made to juniors tor
aiding in this work.” The complaint of new
men in societies has been that there didn’t
seem to be any upperclassmen, and partic-
ularly seniors, actively interested in the so-
ciety. To juniors, who will be seniors and
active in yarious positions mext year, this
. Only by i

appeal is made directly their in-

terest and activity can anv measure of suc-
cess be assured. The work of the seniors
this vear will be tn vain tf mext vear’s seniors
refuse to -operate and aid in this work
There must be a number of leaders develop

ed and a number of upperclassmen interested

before anv good wil}

SLOGANS

The trend in collegiate tournalism for the
past few weeks seems to have drifted to the
subjects of slogans, embryo journalists
querying as to whether or not their respec-
tive journals really were in earnest in print-
ing a particular slogan at the mast head of
their paper each week. The Emory Wheel
has been attempting to discover whether or
not the staff of that organization reatly
wants “intercollegiate athletics.” Open
| Forum articles on both sides of the question
| have been appearing prolifically in the last
few issues. Randolph-Macon College
| through its weekly threatens to disown its
| alumni in the publication due to their lack
| oft interest and material aid,
Jacket, has had as its slogan, “The Official
Publication of the Alumni Association.”
The students insist that it is not official,
the publication rightly belongs to the stu-
dent body, and that the alumni have not
taken enough interest to even be mentioned

in the editorial box.

It is always had policy to brag, so we hope
that no one will misinterpret this article and
believe that The Davidsonian is attempting
to claim any credit for things which some-
one else has accomplished. The main point
to be brought out was that the slogan of
this publication seems to be justified, even
though all the actions towards this goal can
be traced to those energetic members of
either the editorial staff or business staff of
the publication. We do believe, however,
that Davidson is better than at the time
when the slogan was adopted, and that all
indications point toward the improvement of
the school. :

One of the main events which has pro-
voked this little outburst of school patriot-
ism is the awarding of the contract for the
completion of Chambers building. With
this keystone of the educational plant here
rebuilt, there will be little more that anyone
could wish for the school in the way. of
modern and scientific equipment. At that
time there will no doubt arise some other
need, but at present it seems that as soon
as this new building is completed, a number
of small evils and problems will be elimi-
nated, To those loyal men who have labor-
ed so faithfully in soliciting subscriptions
that actual work might be begun on the
building, and to those who have given so
renerously to this worthy cause, the stu-
dent body is deeply grateful. It is certain
that the seniors will never enter the new
building as students. althotigh they have
attended classes in the south wing of the
structure for) three years. The remainder
of the student body, however, will no doubt
be able to use some of the new plant. But
every Davidson man is sincerely happy that
the building will soon be complete, whether
or not he will be able to attend classes there
or not. é

Tt would be mere repetition to explain in
what ways the new building will aid: the
school in general. It is sufficient to say that
it will eliminate one of the outstanding
problems, that of an adequate auditorium.
This and numerous other advantages will be
evident as soon as the building is finished.

Now that this main problems is solved,
others of lesser importance now arise and
will hold the attention of the students and
alumni until a solution is found. One is that
of a larger and more completely equipped
fymnasium, which will be necessary to

be accomplished.

; ely
sical needs of the en-

inadequate for the ph

A number of students agree —

The Yellow- | chosen.

thoroughly equip the school. The old gym

tire student body—not even to mention the
lack of space when an intercollegiate indoor
sport is staged. There is also the question
of a swimming, pool, which is sorely needed
here. It is well to congratuiate everyone on
the actual beginning of work on the new
building, but one should also remember that
there are other problems to be solved also.

A WORD OF ADVICE

Mention has been made in this column once
before of the value of the. Vocational Guid-
ance Institute which begins here next week
under the auspices of the Y. M.C. A. It is
certain, however, that there are numerous
students who have yet to realize the serious-
ness of the problem which is to be discussed
and the value of these talks which will be
given. A great percentage of the student
body has not decided what they will do after
being graduated from this institution—it is
towards these men that these lectures are
directed. Burt there is also a large percen-
tage which will ignere this valuable advice
and instruction which is to be presented and
thereby lose an excellent opportunity to
: of themselves: in an at-
just what they are fitted

plumb the

no doubt to repeat

Lets ch ha d yre in this pub-
lication, have meed in chapel, and
which each should know. But it will be time
and space well spent tf tt will make some
realize the tmestumable value of these lec-

tures. The men now tm college have, in gen-
eral, been in here long enough to know the
general trend of things. They should know
the courses offered here and what they
would like to take in their last two years.
All of these men could but be benefitted
by these talks were they to attend the meet-
ing devoted to the subject in which they are
particularly intereste.

A man should certainly decide in what
profession he will attempt to make his way
betore the middle of his sophomore year.
In this way he can shape his elective courses
toward the general goal which he has
Far too many men wind up their
junior and senior years no more definitely as
to what they will do than when they first
entered high school. In this way a whole col-
lege course is a meaningless meandering
current, the end of which they cannot see
and in which they are not in the least in-
terested.

The Vocational Guidance Institute wishes
to reach these men and attempt to give them
some definite goal toward which they may
work, The Institute will present outstand-
ing and prominent men in each profession,
giving each a fair chance and attempt to in-
terest the student in one of them.

But the student who has already decided
what he will do after graduation will also
be interested in these lectures, An attempt
will be made to present the problem of this
profession, interesting points about it, and
various things which will be intensely inter-
esting to the man who has decided definitely
what he will do. With the above in view,
it will be strange if every one of the meet-
ings of the Institute will not be well at-
tended.

Open Forum

The writer of “Too Hasty “Action” in last
week’s Davidsonian showed only a complete ig-
norance of the fact involved in the case. The
writer of that article gave no less than nine mis-
quotations of facts. In’ fairness to the Society I
will say that the Phi Society has not disbanded
but simply adjourned to meet on the call of. the
President.” If the writer of “Too Hasty Action”
will see me I will cleat the matter up. ‘|

HENRY T. POWELL, Past President.

MONEY UNDER FALSE PRETENSES

It was a Gentile errand boy who had applied to
his Jewish employer for a raise in wages. To this
the careful Jew replied:

“If it vosn’t Leap Year,” added the lad’s em-
-pioyer;-sternly, “you wouldn’t be vorking for me

at all."—Manchester (England) Guardian.

“

In Leap Year there are -_____-__.__-_____ 366 days
You work 8 hours per day.
Therefore you don’t work _______-________ 244 days
1122 days
You don’t work Jewish and Christian
Sabbaths .22222 2323S eee wees 104 days
18 days
You have 14 days’ holiday ~.__---_______ 14 days
4 days
You don’t work Christmas day, New Year's
day, and Good Friday ~-._---_-_--____ 3 days
I day’

Out of Bounds

For six months we have aped “the world’s high-
est paid editorial writer” in this column. To date
we have received exactly five comments upon our
efforts and three of those have been adverse. The
student public being uninterested we shall change
the tune for a week.

Side by side with the august Mr. Brisbane in the
Charlotte Observer is placed a daily dose of New
York from O. O. McIntyre. A cut of the David-
son skyline to head this column is lacking but
the spirit is present.

Monday morning diary of a modern Pepys. Up
betimes and to chapel where I received a spiritual
tonic for the day. Then to the house where I did
arduously prepare myself for a written history
lesson to the accompaniment of “The Piano Rag,”
“Moten’s Stomp,” and conversational interruptions,
Then in a rush to class and afterwards a sojourn
at the new shop for crackers and milk where the
student wits lolled about the music box and patted
their feét to scintillating melodies. Away for an
evening of golf cavorting about the course
wretchedly but learned from the small talk that
Professor Gore was of Pennsylvania Dutch ex-
traction. Then to the theater and to bed. Me-
thinks that the former suffered much from a lack
of titles by George Marion, Jr.

Or try this one on your kazoo, Wednesday
morning thoughts while strolling. Professor Cum-
mings with a new blue tie. Mill hands in denim.
A foot of whiskers on a passing male face. Ser-
geant Kirby. Grammar school sweethearts. A
clerk who plays the traps at Wrightsville during
the summer months. The new Ford. Absence
cards. Clothing drummers. Spike McGee carting
sandwiches to his dispensary, Old Ironsides with
George Bancroft. Country schooners, Miss Min-
nie. Don Q. and the drug store. Mud. Mr.
Thompson of the bank minus his coat. A movie
house for the colored gentry. Tommy.

And then we might continue. The railroad
forms the barrier and one side of town rarely
mixes with the other. Saturday afternoon finds
the western section in the lower business district
for the weekly shave and purchases of groceries.
There are many in that part of the village who
have never left Davidson. They watch the cotton
mill spindles, go to the Western on Saturday nights
and then seclude themselves for another week.
Their cotton hose and overalls are indelible marks
of their inferiority. The children go to grammar
school and compare favorably with the more en-
lightened professor’s offspring but they rarely re-
main after the eighth grade. The mill calls them
to support dependents.

The latest concoction of the swank new soda
shop is a “half and half,” varied syrups mixed with
cream. Tasty palates are satisfied for twenty
cents, and the cover charge is gratis.

I stepped on his toe in the post office and when
he turned to rebuke me I gave him my most with-
ering glance, which of course just made an old
silly out of him.

And perhaps next time my “children we shall
have some extracts from the “By and By” column
if Arthur still remains indisposed. And then of
course Elsie Robinson remains for our attention
together with “Daily Health Hints.”

And now since some little space remains we
shall fill it with a little sentiment of our own con-
coction—shades of Amy Lowell.

Where sea

and shore

convene,

I found a pearl,

I loved it not but reached

to pluck the moon ‘
from off its pedestal.

But as I tiptoed to the skies

A swirl of water

hurled me to the sand.

I’m looking for black diamonds now.

W.L. L.

WHEN THS PREACHER’S TIRE GOES FLAT

Preachers are human enough to need a “boost”
now and then. Don’t be afraid of putting a bit of
courage beneath their ribs. Should they become
too “chesy,” the Lord may be trusted to deflate
at the proper time. 4

One Sunday morning, a man came forward at
the close of the service in the First Presbyterian
church in Nashville, Tenn., and said, “I have come
all the way from Covington to hear you preach.”

Now, Covington is 150 mlies west of Nashvillé,
and I felt my chest swelling and myself rising on
my toes as I said to the visitor, “I trust that you
have gotten the worth of your fare.”

“O, yes,” he answered, “I travel on a pass.”

Then my tire went flat; and I think that the
puncture was heaven-sent—James I Vance.
7 oe a
