THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 26, 1928

Rhodes Scholarship Offers
Opportunity for Chemists

| modern, and facilities are presented for the
construction of special apparatus, as needed.
Excellent libraries are maintained in con-
or ; : nection with each laboratory, as well as the
eva a scholarship see Dr. G. | complete scientific library in the famous
: | Bodleian. Private rooms with almost un-

Due to the interest in international affairs | limited equipment are provided for those

among the people of the United States, espe- | students engaged in research.
cially since the World War, the number of |

students. going abroad for further study has The average American Rhodes scholar will
greatly increased and a correspondingly keen | usually receive Senior standing, which will
interest has been’ aroused in the Rhodes enable him to carry on studies in his chosen
Scholarships. The scholarships are tenable | field and to obtain the Bachelor of Arts De-
for three years at the University of Oxford |gree at the end of his second year. The
they carry a stipend of 400 pounds, and the | Chemistry School, however, differs from the
wide range of subjects is equivalent to that, Others in that there are two examinations:
of the larger universities of the United. the first one leads to B.A. “without honors,”
States. In this series of articles some of | and the second one determines the class. For
the advantages of study at Oxford, in Law | this second examination, an additional year's
Medicine, and Philosophy, have been ms work is required, which consists of indi-
forth, and this number is a brief description | vidual laboratory work of a semi-original
of the opportunities in the study of Chem-] nature. But if the work of this third year
istry. ;and the examination following it warrant,
the candidate may receive in addition to his
B.A. “with honors” the B.Sc.

: The following is one of a series of articles
circulated for the purpose of stimulating in-
terest in Rhodes Scholarships. For infor-

Many and attractive facilities are offered |
to members of the university for work in this |

field, as vast sums have been expended dur-| It is possible for one who is qualified upon
ing the past two decades in bringing the | entrance to the University to make applica-
scientific aspect of university endeavor to a! tion for admission as a student for the de-
par with that long enjoyed, and justly so, by gree of Bachelor of Science. Individual
the humanities. The Natural Science School | work of an original nature under supervision

of Oxford University now ranks among the | of the faculty is a primary requisite for this.

very best in the world.

Perhaps the outstanding members, of the
eminent faculty in Chemistry are te Way S

flete Professor of Chemistry, Wm. H\Per-
kin, Jr., and the Lee’s Professor of Chem-

istry, Frederick Soddy; the former noted

for his researches in the field of synthetic

dyes and alkaloids, and the latter for fun- |

damental work in the radio-active elements.
Instruction and supervision is given by all
members of the faculty, augmented and ex-
tended from time to time by lectures and
discussions by noted visiting English and
Continental scientists.

Several of the colleges maintain their own
chemical laboratories in addition to the larger
university-operated laboratories. New and
modern buildings house the divisions of Or-
ganic and Cio-Chemistry; while the Inorganic
work is extensively cared for in the Uni-
versity Museum. Physical Chemistry courses
are given in some of the college laboratories.
The equipment is most comprehensive and

| degree, and it can usually be secured in the
\third year of the tenure of the Rhodes
| Scholarship. To be admitted to read for
is degree the candidate must furnish proof
that he has a good general education and
| evidence of his fitness to do independent
| research.

Opportunity is offered at Oxford for those
| qualified students. who wish to engage in
| fundamental original research to secure the
| Degree of Doctor of Philosophy (D. Phil.,
| Oxon.). The tenure of the scholarship is
required, for the completion of the necessary
work, which is done under the supervision
of a member of the faculty. The disserta-
tion submitted as partial requirement for the
degree shall be suitable for publication and
shall constitute an original contribution to
knowledge. Advanced students are given
access to the laboratories at all times and
goodly portions of the vacations are some-
times given over to.intensive work by these

research workers.

Mrs. Martin’s Sister
Recently Met Death

COLLEGE YELL CONTEST

Don't forget the free tickets that
are to be given for the best yells turn-
ed in:to the editor of The Davidson-
ian or to the varsity cheer leader. .
Several suggestions have been handed
in. Get yours in before midnight
Monday, April 30th, when the contest
closes, The first prize is six tickets
to ‘the local theater; second, four
tickets, and third, two tickets.

Word was received in Davidson recently
of the death of Mrs. E. H. Williamson, the
sister of Mrs. W. J. Martin, of Fayetteville.
Mrs. Williamson was the mother of Vardell
Williamson, who attended Davidson in 1924-
25. Her death occurred after a brief illness,
in the early morning of April 12th, and in-
terment was made in the Fayetteville ceme-
tery.

Mrs. Williamson was prior to her mar-
riage Miss Kathryn Vardell, of South Caro-
lina. She had many friends in the two
Carolinas. Her brother, Mr. C. G. Vardell,
is president of Flora Macdonald College,
while her husband is a well known cotton

Slugging Wildcats
Defeat Petrels, 10-2

Enthusiastic stands made Richardson Field

Classical Fraternity

Choose New Officers

At the last meting of Gamma Nu Tan,
a local classical fraternity, the, officers for
the coming year were chosen. ‘The officers
chosen are: Everett Moye, president, and
W. E. Hill, secretary and treasurer.

Although it is not generally known, this
fraternity, commonly known as the Classi-
cal Club, changed its name early in the year
to Gamma Nu Tau. At the present time the
fraternity is petitioning a national classical
fraternity.

The purpose of the fraternity is to pro-
mote interest in classical subjects and to
give its members a deeper understanding and
appreciation for the classics, the meeting be-
ing taken up principally by the reading and
discussion of ‘papers on classical subjects.
The meetings take place on every other
Thursday night, and at the next meeting
Professor Gorr will present a paper to the -
fraternity on some classical subject.

manufacturer of this state. The deceased
was an active worker in many fields of ac-
tivity. She was an offiger-of the State Fed-
eration of Woman's ey and actively en-
gaged in church work,®eing also a musician

and war worker. ne

JUNIOR SPEAKING

Friday, April 27, 7:30—Junior Ora-
torical Contest.
Saturday, April 28—
2:30—Track Meet:
University of S. C.
5 :00—Reception on Campus
7:30—Junior Minstrel.

Davidson vs.

resound with the cheers of approval last! Crawford, lb ~-----.--- 4 1210 0 0

Tuesday, April 17th, as Kugler pitched the} Littlejohn, 3b --------- 5 010 4 2

Wildcat nine to victory over the Oglethorpe | McAulay, c ----------- 400200

Petrels, at the tune’ of 10-2.  BoeKtigler;: pccccceccs 200000
Ais ; : Henderson, p ---------- 000000
This marked the second successive victory Mandawe 000010

; ; E Sap unacuwuceue

over the Georgians, 7-6 being the result of hl ee 0-10 0°00

thes precedingwuay. at COnCOndy. 2.5 Sy CuleiG een eS ies eo ea een ae
Hal Johnson, the wide-awake center field- | Momo. oes 5110010127 10610

er, was recipient of grandstand approval as |

he calmly gathered in all flies that strayed! Score by innings: RHE

into his vicinity. Oglethorpe ---------- 000 110 000— 2 7 5
Taliaferro, of the Petrels’ nine, proved his Davidson -----------302 023 00x10 10 0

slugging ability when he gained a three-base Summary—Home run: Johnson; three-

hit. Crawford and Harrison, of Davidsen,| hase hits: Taliaferro, Reynolds; two-base

also showed up well. hits: Laird, Crawford; sacrifice hits: Turn-
The box score and summary are as fol-/ ¢y, J, Kugler, E. Kugler; stolen bases: Har-,

lows: rison (2), Crawford; struck out: by York

, OGLETHORPE ABR H POA E | 1, by Boswell 1, by Kugler 2; base on balls:

, Boswell, 2b-p ---------- 4 O01 4 1 0) off York 1, off Boswell 3, off Meadows 1;

Thompson, c ---------- £0 1 5 2 Ojleft on base: Oglethorpe 6, Davidson 5;

Maliagerro, §8 ss.ccocse5) 4 4 2| losing pitcher: York; winning pitcher; Kug-

eRumnerj tb: casceseacass 3.0 011 O Ojler; umpire: Brandon.

VOR peli wees sec eeeus 3-0 0 1:71 0

Wrallicrt ice cosca see es 40100 0}

eaiTUR 1Gl) couccsaaseeos 41220 1|

Mitnispolt(ccncccseccueoos 100000

Martini 2) uesscesscues 20) -0! OF 2a 0

Htdson;: Dp) occcauenancae 100011

Reynolds, 3b ---------- 6-0 1) Oral
MOA Siucceceackueacae 965225722452 45

DAVIDSON ABR HPOA E

Harrison, 2b -.--.-----. 4110 40

Ji Kugler, ss*~-----.--- 41 1:1-1 0

Ratchford, If -------.-.. 4° 2. 1-200 °

TOuNGh) Gf cc ucenscys 43310 0 0| | Statesville

McConnell, rf --------- 401200

PLAY HOUSE THEATRE

PICK OF THE PICTURES
VAUDEVILLE

North Carolina

_ As Progressive as the Institution

Behind It

Created in the Davidson Spirit and established on sound
business principles, our store is the essence of theStudent
Body which support it. The trend is always forward.
Every year the store greets a new generation of Davidson

Men. Owned and operated by the men it serves,

it typifies their spirit,

THE STUDENTS STORE

'tIt’?s Yours, Why Not Patronize 1t*?

