THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 2, 1928

=

Prelims in Oratorical

Meet Held Here in Feb.

ea preliminaries for the State Oroa-' Rive New Courses

Contest will be held here on,
Tuesday, February 20. The following men ,
have expressed their intention of enter- |
ing these: H. T. Powell, W. W. Harri-} ven :
: mae ee | Beginning with the new semester there
son, J. P. McKnight, H. E. Russell, Zeb
Long, Murray Christian, Allan Frew, and
“Red” Beavers,

The writer at this time will represent He Os Lh
| ps Ds DStcn | these new courses will add additional op-
Javidson at the State contest, which will | portunities to etudents. wis
be held here on March 30. The e : Aa : : ;
' surat eae an entrants | ecking education along these lines and
in this will be the winners in the prelim- |

"geen ; | who may be ab o take them.
“Inaries of the other colleges in the State. | me UALS
The are as follows:

A regional contest will then be held for |
the winners of the different states, and |

those

Education under Mr. Henderson. The

are!

the winners of the several. regions will) PUTPose of this study is to bring apy)

then enter the finals at Los Angeles, The | students who /may have a teaching career
first prize Offered here will be $1,500. jin mind up to the standard of the state
This contest is under the auspices of Pearce for A-grade teaching cer-
the State of California for more interest | ‘fcates.
in the United State Constitution, and the| History 2
following subjects allowed: “The | Advanced Public Speaking 1, which will
Constitution,” “Washington and the Con- | be taught by Mr. McGrew. This will be
stitutfon,” “Jefferson and the Constitu-| open to any Sophomores who might wish
tion,” “Franklin and the Constitution,”! to. continue the compulsory public speak
and “Lincoln and the Constitution.” ing work.

and 3 under Dr. Lingle,
are

Advertising (Business Psychology) un-
i der Dr. Hood.
| head of Psychology 4.

‘DR. F. W. SHEPARDSON

facaly coon tied pomceee th ; Geography under. Dr. Porter. This
: Reem ie SUB-|) This course will take up a study of North

gested new fraternities which could be in- | ¢ ant ®

troduced here and advised the committee on | ener a

the present fraternity housing question. He|

was a guest of the Beta Theta Pi, and visit- | and continued in prayer all night.” If Jesus

ed several other fraternities while on the needed this strength surely man can not af-
campus.

|
Dr. Shephardson recalled his first visit to his Lord and Master.

Davidson in 1911, and the impression which | ¢ Communion a nets peas Bivetices iid
the college made on him at that time. He|°! thing but a definite, tangible relationship
averred that subsequent visits to the institu- with Jesus that will. necessarily stir a man
tion have served to strengthen his original |t? "W thoughts.”

admiration for the college. I have ever| “The goals of the head and the hand are
been a strong belicver in the college which | temporal and are not desired when attained.
emphasizes human friendships mpre_ than | The goal of the heart is not confined to the
‘stone buildings and tremendous endowments,” | limits of the flesh but is to be enjoyed for-

This will come under the

ithe elevated train was rather jolty. |

‘Annual Catalogue in

_ Hands of Publishers

Announcement from the Registrar's of-
| fice recently stated that material for the
~|annual catalog of the College had been
;sent to the publishers and that distribu-
tion would be made

Added by Officials »a:c».

There will be few changes in this num- |
ber outside of additions to the courses to
will be added to the curricula of the col- |be offered, new professors, and a com-
lege a number of new courses in a diver-| plete list of the members of the student
It is felt by officials that! body and R. O. T. C. Department.

Rules governing the students will re-
| main practically the same as in past years

and several that

of years ago and applied to cond tions of
that time will probably be omitted as they
have no application at the present time.
Prospective students are sent these cit-
alogs upon request in order that they may

gain some idea

entering and may be guided in the se ec
tion of their courses.

Various sections of the book will be de-
voted to a list of the governing offic als,
the faculty, a brief historicaksketch, the
term of admission, requirements for de
grees, and glimpses into various college
lorganizations and activities along

other subjects.

A Scotehman

spent that night there.

well, thank you,

7

about the first off

DAVIDSON DIAMOND ARTISTS

(Continued from page one)

April 2—Guilford at Guilford.
April 3—Lynchburg at Lynchburg.
April 4—Lynchburg at Lynchburg.
April 5—Roanoke at Roanoke.
“April 6—V. P. I. at Blacksburg.
April 9—Carolina at Salisbury. :
April 10—University of Penn at Davidson.
April 13—Wake Forest at Davidson.

May 10—Elon at Elon.

April 16—Oglethorpe at. Davidson.
April 17—Oglethorpe at Davidson.
April 18—Lynchburg at Davidson.
April -9—Lynchburg at Davidson.
April 20—Furman at Davidson. .
April 25—Duke at Davidson.

April, 27—Lenoir-Rhyne at Hickory.
May 5—Guilford at Davidson.

May 9—Duke at Durham.

_May 11—Wake Forest at Wake Forest.
May 12—N. C. State at Raleigh.

l.

eccceooee

were passed a number of

of the institution before

with

New York and

Sandy slept very |
except that now and then)

visited

| Pennsylvania Punch Bowl. | e

| ford to get along without communion with |

he declared, “and I believe that Davidson is j ever, The true soul adds new victories unto |

such an institution.

itself until it passes at last from the imper- |

“Davidson remains unique among the col- | fection of the present to the perfection that |

leges and universities of our nation, and [| lies beyond.”
|

would grieve to see her attempt to mimic | ©
h . . . A rf POSSOOSHOSHHSSHSSHOSSHSSHOSHCOECOOSOOCSSOCECES
other institutions. The atmosphere and tra- | Py

pee prevail here are inspiring,” he,| EAT AT THE ‘
MEDITATION ASTORLUNCH
(Continued from page 1) 3 SERVICE $

to the existence and nature of God are in|
desperate need of resting by the still waters |
until He is willing to lead to real truth, All) §
the worrying and questioning in the world
will never reveal’ the solution of problems ; |
man must wait in meditation to be led of God. |
Preacher or business man that fails to en- | THE BEST OF COOK-
rich his life with these periods of com- |
munion will lose his zest to serve and will | ING

fail to have a Christian life of depth and |

consecration, :

F. D. Miller stressed the fact that Jesus |

was in constant prayer when approaching any | Charlotte, N.C.
great crisis in life. After healing the man |
with the withered hand “He went out to pray |

A Complete Line of Drugs
and Sundries

White Drug Co.

The Commercial National Bank

Charlotte, N. C. Founded 1874

Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your
banking needs.

4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit.

Trust Department under supervision of United States
Government. Make us your Executor.

Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00..
O! FICERS °

R. A. DUNN, President I. W. STEWART. Cashier and Trust Officer
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President J. B. DOAR, Aset. Cashier?
A. T. SUMMEBY, Vice-President M. T. WILLIAMS, Asoistant Cashier

FULLER HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier
J

a 1

CREDER} ZA, $700 CO

The New

in the World

213 N, Tryon St.

OR THOPHONIC
VICTROLA

The, Finest Musical Insthument

Prices $95 to $1,000
All Models in Stock---Easy Terms

NEW RECORDS

EVERY FRIDAY

ANDREW’S

MUSIC STORE

Charlotte, N. C.

J

“USS. Saratoga

A Marvel of National Defense

GENERAL ELECT

From this 214-acre deck, Uncle
Sam’s battle planes can now leap
into action—sure of a landing
place on their return, though a
thousand miles from shore.

This marvel of national defense
was accomplished—and duplicated
—when the airplane carrier, U.S.S.
Saratoga, and her sister ship, U.S.S.
Lexington, were completely
electrified.

In each, four General Electric
turbine-generators deliver,

ELECTRIC

combined, 180,000" horsepower to

the propellers—enough to drive the
ship at 33 knots (39 miles an hour)
—enough to furnish light and power
for a city of half a _ million
people.

The design and construction of the
electric equipment for the U.S.S.
Saratoga and the U.S.S. Lexington,
to which college-trained men con-
tributed in great measure,
exemplify the part General
Electric plays in promoting
the welfare of the nation.

|

HENECTA NEW

6-24DH

Rik

YORK

