THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 23, 1928

SECOND CHAMELEON

(Continued from page 1)
However, with the unimaginative this kind
of stuff is lost. -To me the most delight-
futpart of the sketch was the way Whar-

7

Freshman Wolfe in his “On Quenching | OXFORD HONORS
Thirst” accomplished a thing most re-| .
markable by writing interestingly and | (Continued from page 1)
even humorously upon the most prosiac | | they have sprung, without, I hope, with-
of subjects. Certainly he is to be con- | drawing them or their sympathies from
gratulated and encouraged to develop his | the land of their adoption or birth.

| proceeds from them should go back for the

betterment of his people. As long as civili-
zation shall endure, as long as property and
life shall be held sacred, this one man’s will,
will be instrumental in shaping the destiny of
each generation that comes after him.

which their grandfathers and their great-
grandfathers were with their families on the
farm. They will be subject to the pressure
of forces around them. We have all seen
the great cotton mill community owned by
one great corporation. It has its schools

{and churches, its homes and hospitals, but the

already pleasing stylistic qualities.
I was attracted to Mr. Wharton's idea
of “utter living” in his poetic attempt of

ton arrived at the magical number SIX.
His process here illustrated the entire
piece. It was written to entertain, and it
furnished me with 15 minutes of muffled

init that his “Black Horses” failed to arouse

in me any deep feeling of understanding

The remaining articles in the magazine wei rae
The remaining 5 of his ideas of sin,

“so-so,” but on the whole
far above those printed in the last issue.

“on' the in-
be most pleasing,

For those

were ; ete 9
his editorial will

were just side,”

College writers seem always to remember |
that they are in college. They can not}
get away from the idea that their product |
must be about long grey motors
dance or a beautiful but bad girl. In most
instances the contents of the CHAME-
LEON. fully exemplified the collegiate
standing of the writers. I except,
course, the two pieces mentioned above.
It may be said that these subjects shou'd,
“he the field of college writers, but I hold!
that it is no distinction for an
have any

jhim. Perhaps, it is better that way!

There is absolutely John-
son’s “And So, They Danced,” and I ad-
vise if you have not already consumed)
the.stuff to forget it is in the magazine.
The story told in the last
“Her partner (not the hero)
her. The dance
j out into the night.”

| mine,

John nearer
than any of these writers mentioned just
above. He has three very
as he

oF A nothing in

of 18
for

went)

came
They
The parenthesis dre

Was over,

author to
such glamour of post-adoles-
about his work. It makes him so
provincial, so limited and extremely
interesting.

McKnight came scoring
cence
un- fine poems in
but I understand
several passages come almost direct from
other works of the He
seems to be aiming at something similar
in. sound as Poe’s Lénoireonora ,if 1
member correctly). The Storm

about to break for me.

prose, calls them,

of
certain, views on

sake

Opinion,

Purely for the
unauthoritative
the rest of the

The
he

expressing an

same nature.
magazine follow:

“An Affair” but
The story is simple
enough, the characters undeveloped, but
somehow’ interest is aroused despite the
fact that we know what is to happen in
the bitter end,

Mr. “Rondeau” very
pleasant but it isn’t a rondeau. He has
the correct number of lines and the prop-
er rhyme scheme,
correct refrain.
better,
tempts.

rC-
still

author
doesn't

of trives

: is
arrive,

Langdon Hubbard, Junior, ‘30, repeated
the idea—theme TI believe such things are
termed—that the Mr. Johnson used. It
is merely a different dance and two other |
boys and girls.

It always does.
McQueen's is
Book reviews, written by students who
are of no authority, have no place in a
collegiate publication: That mine
your opinion about a-current book isn’t;
sufficient recommendation for the unread |

but he injects an in-
This prolific author does
at-
His play—a farce in one act

is,

however, in some of his other

“Quien Sabe?” is fair and I would have! Td to rush to the nearest book-shop and |
thoroughly enjoyed “Dusk” if [had not re purchase the book of our decision, or
cently seen a movie embodying the identi chow out the window ear denuncia-|
cal thought. But McQueen proves him-|U0"S: We are no authorities on the sub

ject; it just happens that we must fulfil’
our part filling ‘the pages.
all

self to be one of the best writers in school
by these efforts. He would surely become
promising enough for unstinting prais*
if he would choose different subjects for
he Was the power and appeai necessary
to produce a writer of the first rank (in
our circles). I failed to catch his wave
length in his two poems.

Perhaps, in fairness |
rent offerings of the Literary Lights of |
Davidson may be accounted for by the
two unimportant facts of a new pipe and

a refusal slip from the Chameleon’s editor

Davidson Theatre

MONDAY and TUESDAY
“Ladies’ Night in a Turkish Bath”

WEDNESDAY
George Bancroft in “The Showdown”

THURSDAY

Chester Conklin and Louise Brooks tn
“Tillie’s Punctured Romance”

FRIDAY
Florence Vidor in “Doomsday”

SATURDAY
Fred Thompson in “The Pioneer Scout”

EE —________
VICTOR RECORD RELEASE FRIDAY FEB. 24, 1928
DANCE RECORDS

21119. Whiteman Stomp
Sensation Stomp __---- -’aul Whiteman and His Orchestra
21167 To-Morrow—Waltz—Johnny Hamp's Kentucky Serenaders
Where in the World—Waltz____- B. F. Goodrich Orchestra
21150 So Tired—Fox Trot__.-_- Jean Goldkette and His Orchestra
Just a Little Kiss from a Little Miss—Fox Trot
21170 The Whip—Fox Trot—Nat Shilkrett and The Victor Orch.
We'll Have a New Home-—Fox Trot
21120 Honolulu Stomp
NMelevotenawalics = se. ct Honolulu Serenaders
21168 I’m Drifting Back to Dreamland
Let’s Forgive and Forget_______.__ Blue Steele’s Orchestra
VOCAL AND INSTRUMENTAL
21152 Marilyn
Sakai cee cin 8 ee Ruby Wiedoeft
21169 Oh! emp Pe Dalhart, Carson Robinson, Hood
When the Sun Goes Down Again Dalhart & Robison
21121 Aloha Oe
Chantde Bonheur ~__---_------_-_______ Edwin H., Lentare

Come in and hear these numbers. We are sure you will like them.

- Davidson Book & Stationery Co.

WHERE QUALITY AND SERVICE Sin

“Reconciliation,” but I can truthfully say ;

| but the great majority will think he was |
only trying to fill up the page allotted to

sentence : |

or!

j tions; in such a way,
had better |
state that my reticence in praising the cur LEY of the student body,

[making it finer and better.”

Further information and application
| blanks may be obtained from Prof. G. R.
Vowles or from President Frank Ade-
lotte, American Secretary, at Swarthmore,
Pa. Full information about study and life
in Oxford is supplied especially for Amer-
ican students in OXFORD OF TODAY
published the direction of the
Alumni Association of American Rhodes
Scholars, by the Oxford University Press

Five men among the alumni of David-
| son have held the scholarships including
| Dr. B. R. Lacy, appointed in 1907 to rep-
resent North Carolina, now president of
Union Theological Seminary, Richmond,
| Va., W. P. Mills, appointed 1007 to repre

under

a aot Carolina, now at Chinese Y.
Mi: \., Nanking, China, S. T.. McCloy,
eae 1919 to represent Arkansas,

now on faculty of Duke University.
Richards,, appointed 1923. to
| North Carolina, now student and teacher
at Columbia Theological At-
lanta, Ga., R. F. Davidson, appointed to
represent South Carolina in 1026,
Christ Church College,

J. M
represent
Seminary,

now at

Oxford

F RATS MOVED

(Conunaed from page 1)
Trustees, should have hinted of hostility
the fraternities and a desire on
{the part of the college authorities to bring
{i these groups back to the

toward

|

campus for the

| purpose of disciplinary surveillance,” re-
cently declared Mr, F. L. Jackson, busi-
| ness manager of the college and chair-

/man of the special committee which wil!
award contracts for the construction of
ij the houses, “Davidson
| College has never discouraged fraternity
life, her officials, in the
new fraternity-court, have acted on a de-
| sire to assist the fraternities in securing
the advantages of social life and friend!y
association that belong to such organiza-

new fraternity

and approving

however, as not to
interfere with the democratic spirit
but to con-
| tribute to the larger life of the college,

and |

The court, as designed by M. EF,
Jr., of Charlotte, calls for immediate con- |
struction the 11 buildings to be ar-|
ranged in a semi-circle about a beautifully |

Jover,

of

landscaped court. The price of each
| 7 . . . |
| building will be $5,000. Each fraternity |

| will be allowed to draw lots -and upon |
completion of the house to buy it at cost |
| from the college. |

The houses are unitorm im size and ac-
commodations but will vary in Outward |
design according to the preferences of the!
different fraternities. Each house will)
have a lounge room with fireplace and |
aupokshelves approximately 17 feet by 28
feet; a chapter room about 15 feet by
feet, with for altar and other |
equipment; kitchenette with built-in |
cupboards and sink, and space for electric |
stove and refrigerator: a dressing room
ond lavatory; linen closets; and a porch |
about 200 square-feet in size,

Members of committee who will award |
contract

Q

?

space

ne supervise construction

are: |
Mr. F. L. Jackson, chairman; Mr. i us
eee Prof. A, Currie and Dr. |
McConnell.

BUSINESS AS A VOCATION

M.|
|
|

(Continued from page 1)

leave behind you an industry that will live
after you have gone, doing its part toward
the upbuilding of your state and the nation.”

Insisting that the business man and_ the |
industrialist today bear the bulk of the|
burden of state and society, and that the man |
who creates an industry has created a source |
of wealth to supply the funds for running the |
schools, supporting the hospitals, and main-
taining the general welfare of his state, Mr.
Richardson, extolled the works of James B.
Duke, deceased North Carolina capitalist and
phijanthropist.

|
|
|

most hated men North Carolina ever pro-
duced,” he averred. “For 20 years he was

lieve he was the greatest man this. state has
ever produced. Certainly no man among the
billions who have lived and died on this soil
have left their mark on the state as he has
done. His creative mind saw that the public
utilities, the power and light lines of most
North Carolina communities were owned by
foreign corporations. He was determined
that they should be put to work for the bene-
fit-of his. own state. He put these utilities

| New York to take over the ice-making com-!
| é .
| panies for Greensboro and a number of other

ed new branches in Asheboro.

| who came. from farms, how many do you

“James B. Duke was probably one of the ||

hounded by the demagogues, and yet, I be- |

in private form, but so arranged it that the

A

“I think it is a sign of the increasing in-
telligence which is being applied to solving
the questions of life that you gentlemen, ;
while you are still in college, are seeking to
learn something of the vocations
which may engage your attention after grad-
uation. When you come to think of it, it is
amazing how little thought has been given
in the past to this very important subject of
selecting one’s vocation,’ Mr. Richardson
continued.

‘individual workman has lost what his for-
bears had, even on a bare mountain farm. He
has lost his economic independence. Remem-
aeairs pr ber, ‘He who pays the piper, calls the tune.’
eee: “In old English days the shopkeeper was
looked down upon. He owned no land. He
existed only at the will of the great land-
owners, he was here today and gone tomor-
row. Something of that feeling still exists
in the South. Somehow, we think it unbe-
coming a gentleman to go into trade. That
feeling, however, is rapidly disappearing. But,
we have another feeling which does exist and
which is talked widely through the pulpits,
and that is, that service to one’s fellowmen is
the great aim in life—and that is true--and
that the greatest way to give this service is
to become a preacher, or more particularly a
foreign missionary; that business and indus
try are selfish pastimes, gone into principally
for the purpose of accumulating filthy lucre.
All honor to the ministers and the mission-
aries, but there is another side to the picture.”
Richardson concluded with the state

“The call of business is rather a strange
appeal to this campus, which has rung for
many student-generations with fervent calls|-
for men needed in the mission fields and in
the ministry. The tradition of Davidson Col-
lege is law, medicine, and the ministry. It
is not so much against business, as it is that
business is not even known. This attitutte is
a direct heritage English
when a gentleman's son was supposed to be
educated only tor the army, the navy, or the
church, Our forhears brougtt{hese tradi-
tions with them to this country and translated

of our forbear.

them, particularly in the Scotch-Irish com- Mr. ; : it furnishes 70 per
munities, into law, medicine, and the min-| ment that industry, since it ee é ae as
istry, with particular emphasis on the min-| cent ol the wealth, is in reality supporting

all the churches, the ministers, the lawyers.
and the doctors: and that with education and
re ; welfare-work now principally under the con-
traditions based on the assumption that land | A the industries
ye ‘ basis of wealth and that wealth was | Tol of ‘the : ye
was ae ‘aaa wealth a ; Pas, as pereen taxation are réally bearing the
Atk ead eee slaatiath raged ne j burden of what in other days would have
é asi 1 : ere pa
ind that land is no longer the basis of wea lbeen called philanthropic work. Davidson
As late as 1868 it was estimated that land | Selhnnat: t
juced 95 tof tl 1 Ith | students are urged by Mr. Richardson to
roc ec ra) =} en 1e annua VCE 1 in 44

produc per ¢ ot the annual wea ibuild up industries that would contribute to
North Carolina and that industries produced 1 ty

P . the upbuilding of their state and communi

only 5 per cent. In 1925, however, industry Fer die

fe Be which, in corporate form, would never die.

produced more than 70 per cent. Today the

percentage is even greater,” he explained.

istry.

“But, conditions have changed, and these

government,

“Now we are in the age of ‘corporations,
of chain industries and enterprises, of gi-
gantic aggregations of capital, and the move-
ment in that direction is increasing. We
boast of cotton mills which are coming to
our state, but this is largely outside owner-
ship. One home-industty is worth a dozen
foreign-owned ones. In-one day's paper |
read that a combination was being formed in;

Five Years Ago

VISITS NEW YORK

Dr. W. J. Martin, president of the college,
returned last Friday from a flying trip to
New York, where he looked after business
pertaining to the college. Dr. Martin re-
ports a successful trip in a business way, hav-
‘ing “laid the foundations” for something
worth while for Davidson. Further infor-
mation concerning the object of his journey
cannot be divulged at present.

COACH HENGEVELD
Hand in hand with the announcement by
Dr. Douglas that Buck Currie will ¢oach the

Southern cities—that a chain-store had open-

“Tn 1926-27,” Mr. Richardson declared,
was found that 95 Davidson students had
come to college from farms. Of the 95

think intended to go back to the farm? Just| Presbyterian artists of the diamond this
one. What is going to happen to the other year, comes the information that former
94? Whether they go into industry or into] Coach Dutch Hengeveld will also aid him in

his work of rounding out a representative
team of Wildcats for this year’s nine.

the professions, they will cease to be the
self-supporting, independent economic unit

| The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N. C. Founded 1874
Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your
banking needs.
4% interest paid on Ceftificate of Deposit: ;
Trust Department under supervision of United States
Government. Make us your Executor.
Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000°00.
OL FICERS
R, A. DUNN, President I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President J. B. DOAR, Asst. Cashier?
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President M. T. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier
FULLBR HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier

The New
ORTHOPHONIC

VICTROLA

The Finest Musical Instrument
in the World

Prices $95 to $1,000

All Models in Stock---Easy Terms

NEW RECORDS

EVERY FRIDAY

ANDREW’S ;
MUSIC STORE

213 N, Tryon St. Charlotte, N. C.

CREDENZA, $300.00

