FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XV.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEERUARY 9, 1928

No. 18

Condinaction to Start |
Immediately on North ©
Wing of New Chambers:

Northern Wing Will Provide
Facilities for All Sciences

$600,000 COST

Entire Structure May be Completed |
and Ready for Occupancy by
January 1, 1$29 |

With contracts already awarded for the |
northern wing of the magnificent new Cham- |
bers Memorial Building, and the possibility |
of construction being also commenced on the |
central and final unit of the building before |
the close of the present college term, friends |
and patrons of Davidson College appear con-
fident that the entire structure will be com-
pleted and ready for occupancy by January |
1, 1929.

The new building which will command an
imposing position on the Davidson campus,
will at its completion represent an invest-
ment of approximately $600,000, and will he
one of the most modernly-equipped academic |
buildings in the southeast. It will replace
the old Chambers Building, which was built
in 1860 and stood as the center of campus
life until its destruction by fire in 1921,
Four lofty granite columns, which supported
the archway of the former Chambers Build-
ing, are still standing on the campus and will
be retained as a special memorial even after
the completion of the new structure. .

One unit, the south wing, of the new
Chambers Memorial Building was completed
in 1924 at a cost of approximately $200,000,
and has been in use since its completion. In
the completed wing are housed all recitation
rooms, administrative and faculty offices.
This wing, which is less than one-third the
size of the proposed building, was construct-
ed so as to permit.an annexation of the re-
maining central and northern units.

(Continued on page 8)

Hard-Fought Match Won
by ‘Davidson Wrestlers

Davidson Defeats University of
North Carolina 13 1-2 - 7 1-2

Davidson wrestlers last Saturday decis-
ively won over the University of North
Carolina wrestlers by a score of 13 1-2 to
71-2, The Wildcats won four of the seven |
matches and Carolina won two, the other |
match being a draw. All of the matches |
were won by a decision, not a single fall be-
ing registered. The six bouts that were
won, by one side or the other, required an
extra period each to decide the match.

The best match of the afternoon was in
the 145 pound class, with Captain Abbott,
of Carolina, matched against Captain Garri-
son, of Davidson. Garrison barely missed
getting a decision over Abbott, after two ex-
tra periods had been fought, missing a de-
cision by only one second. Abbott has never
been defeated during his career as a college
wrestler, and Garrison has never lost a
match within his own class.

Flythe started the bout with a victory over
Moore, of Carolina, and was followed by
Brown winning from Zealey, of Carolina.
Carolina won the next match when Thomp-
son defeated Herriott. Following this bout
Abbott and Garrison went two extra periods
to end in a draw. In the three remaining
matches Davidson won two and lost one,
when Christenbury and Hill defeated Moore
and Houghton, and Baker lost to Twyford.

Summary :

115 1b. class—Blythe, Davidson, won over
Moore, Carolina, with a time advantage of
3 minutes 27 seconds.

125 Ib. class—Brown, Davidson, won over

(Continued on page 8)

Sketch of New Chambers Building

Architect's diavine of new Chambers building as it will look when completed. The building, representing an investment of more than $609,000, will replace
the historic old Chambers Building, built in 1860 and destroyed by fire in 1921. The above drawing shows the south wing (right), which was completed in 1924
and is now in use by the arts department; also the central and northern units, construction of which is expected to be completed by January 1, 1929.

Vocational Guidance
Plans Six Meetings

Beginning with the week of February
13-18 and lasting through a period of six
weeks, there will be afforded to Davidson
students a rare opportunity for help in the
choosing of their life work. This oppor-
tunity will be in the form of the annual’ Vo-
cational Guidance Institute which is to be
conducted by the local Y. M. C. A. The
purpose of this institute is to guide in the
choice of professions the young men of the
college who have ‘as yet made no decision
along this line.

The general ‘plan of the institute is to pre-
sent to the students one important vocation
each week. The professions which will be
discussed in the order in which they will
come are:
(3) journalism, (4) law, (5) education, and
(6) medicine. These were chosen because
they are most important ones contained in
a list of the vocations most frequently
selected by Davidsen men.

In order to present these to the students
the “Y” will bring to Davidson each Wed-
nesday night of the six weeks’ period scme
prominent man of high character who is out-
standing in a particular line of work. This
man will set before the men of the college a
general idea of the profession which he
represents and he will show them just what
the college man may expect of it.

In addition to the one central speaker who
will address the entire group of students,
there wil! be a number of leaders of the
same profession with whom Davidson men
may at any time during the week have pri-
vate interviews and personally discuss indi-
vidual problems.

In this way the whole field of the wock
will be taken up by the speakers and then
filled out by the counsellors.

The idea of such a Vocational’ Guidance
Institute is a very new one in the South,

where a few of the more important schools |

hold them each year. As a part of the “Y”
program here at Davidson the institute re-
ceived its start last year.

It is the wish of those in charge of the
work that it be understood clearly that the
purpose of this series of speeches is not to
try to force any man to come to a decision on
any one vocation, but it is rather to give a
general and comprehensive view of the en-

) (Continued on page 8)

(1) the ministry, (2) business,’

| SEMESTER LENGTHENED

|
|

A mistake in regard to the date of
commencement was made in the last
catalogue published by the college.
This edition gave the date of the Com-
mencement Day exercises and award-
ing of diplomas as being the last Wed-
nesday in May. This mistake was
noted and brought to, the attention of
the faculty at their recent meeting,
and corrected. The exercises will be.
held on the usual date—the first Wed-
nesday in June. Examinations will
close June 2nd, and the baccalaureate
sermon will be preached on the follow-
ing Sunday.

Basketeers Defeat Two

Schools on Local Floor

Wofford and Elon Conquered by
Davidson Quintet

Showing a complete reversal of form, the
Wildcats took Wofford into camp by the
score of 53-31 on the night of February 1st.
Saturday night Davidson defeated the Elon
Christians 40-37. Captain Wilson, McAu-
ley, and Pritchett, played in mid-season

form as the Red and Black won its first ¢ol-
legiate game of the 1928 season. Starting
off with a bang, the ’Cats drew away from
the Terriers in the opening minutes of play
and at half-time were leading by 32-12. i

As the second half opened, Wofférd took
a new lease on life and proceeded to chalk up”
10 points before the ’Cats scored. Things
began to look bad, and the lead of the ’Cats
| was being steadily cut down, when Pritchett
jand Wilson, aided by McAuley, began to
| loop them in, and thus pulled the game out

of the fire in good time.

Davidson looked like a real basketball
team for the first time this year. Pritchett
/was high point man with 15, followed by
Captain Wilson and McAuley with 13 and
12 respectively. For Wofford, Captain
| Lockman was best, ringing up 14 markers
jand playing a fast floor game.

Continuing their winning streak, the Wild-
cats snatched a spectacular and thrilling
game from the Elon Christians on the night
of February 4th, by the count of 40-37. The
Christians brought a: fast and dangerous
team to. Davidson and came very close to

(Continued on page 8)

|

Lacy and Weisiger to Inaugurate Second
Series of Vocational Guidance Meetings

Professor Vowles’

Textbook Lauded

Dr. Guy Richard Vowles, head of the
German department at Davidson, has recent-
ly published a textbook on Norse Literature
that bids fair to place him in the most select
ranks of the college editors. Besides his
work in German, Dr. Vowles takes a great
interest in all language work, and has writ-
ten several translations in various tongues,
some of which have received high compli-
ments. Jakob A. ©.  Yarsen,  promi-
nent Ohio State University teacher, says
that Dr. Vowles’ current text, “Bjornst-
jorne Bjornson’s En Glad Gut,” is one of
the most exceptional texts on Norse litera-
ture ever published.

The Davidson professor’s edition of what
is probably the most popular of all Bjorn-
son’s novelettes of peasant life has been
given a second printing as the result of an
insistent demand on the part of students and
teachers of the Scandinavian literature. Dr.
Larsen, in the current issue of “The Amer-
ican Oxonian,” declares that Dr. Vowles’
new book is eminently teachable, due in part
to the carefully constructed vocabulary, help-
ful notes, and the composition and conver-
sational exercises prepared by its editor.
Says Dr. Larsen: “The popularity of the
work is such that it is unthinkable that any
teacher of Norse should fail to include it

‘among the first texts to be placed in the

hands of students of the language.”

The book, in addition to being ‘used as a
text in countless high schools and colleges
throughout the nation, has attracted a great
many more mature students of the Norse
literature, and it seems that its popularity
will continue to rise. «It is a distinct honor

to Davidson that one of her professors has |

been able to publish such a splendid work for
American colleges. Dr. Vowles, already well
known as the head of the German depart-
ment, will receive much recognition as the
result of his new book, and it is probable
that he will publish several more in the fu-
ture. The fact that his text on Norse lit-
erature has already gone into its second
printing seems to assure the fact of its ac-
(Continued on page 8)

Dr. Ben R. Lacy Will Arrive Here
Sunday’

START WEDNESDAY

Mr. Kendall Weisiger Will Speak to
Students in Chapel on Monday
Morning

To better help the Davidson College boy
to solve the one question that sooner or tater
inevitably confronts him, the Y. M. C. A.
has secured the services of six eminent au-
thorities in their own lines of work to speak
in student meetings, and on the types of life
work regarded most desirable at Davidson.
And to start the whole series, Mr. Kendall
Weisiger will speak to the students in chapel
on Monday morning next, introducing the
second year's series of Vocational Guidance
meetings for the students. Dr, Lacy will ad-
dress the first of these, on the Ministry.

Mr. Weisiger is now the manager of the
training and the employment department of
the entire Southern Bell Telephone and
Telegraph Company. He is also initiating a
course in vocational work, to assist college
students in choosing life work, at Emory’
University, for which course credit is to be
offered. From this it may be easily seen that
Mr. Weisiger is not only an exceptionally
able man but that he is indeed well adapted
to work with boys of college age. He has
!sent special word ahead that he will be only
too glad to have as many interviews with the
students—prererably among the upper two
classes—as time permits. He is due to leave
Davidson some time Monday, but will re-
turn on Wednesday. Mr.’ Weisiger’s inter-
views will be held largely with those boys
wishing to enter the business field, with an
especial emphasis on the type of work in
which he is engaged.

One of the main purposes of _this series
of vocational meetings is, to have less public
‘speaking and more individual interviews.
For the speaker of the occasion, however,
'Dr. Ben Lacy, possibly the most popular
| speaker on the Davidson campus and certain-
|ly one of the most well liked and respected,
| will be present. He will speak to the stu-
jdents on Wednesday night, February 15th,
in the Freshman chapel, at 6:45.. In addi-

(Continued on page 8) 4

