R. 0. T. C. ISSUE
THEDAVIDSONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XV.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 4, 19 28.

——=x

No. 26

Currie, Holder of State’s :
Dash Record, Is Chosen to |
Head Athletic Association |

Pritchett and ee Elected as
Vice-Presidents—Goody-
koontz is Secretary-
Treasurer

As a result of much balloting on the part
of the student body, John Currie has been
elected to the presidency of the Athletic
Association with Carl Pritchett and Tom
Brohard as vice-presidents, and Dan Goody-
koontz as secretary ‘and treasurer,

The balloting was in charge of W. O.
Nisbet, the retiring president of the associa-
tion. In the preliminary voting, these posi-
tions were open to any members of the “D”
Club in the school, the president to be chosen
from the rising Senior class, the vice-presi-
dents from the rising Junior class, and the
secretary and treasurer from the rising
Sophomore class,

After the first ballot, there remained for
president, Riggs McConnell, Fred Ratch-
ford and John Currie. For vice-president,
those remaining were Tom Brohard, Nat
Hunt and Frank Brown, Carl Pritchett hav-
ing been elected .on the first ballot. For
secretary and treasurer were Dean Rusk,
“Hub” Covington and Dan Goodykoontz.

Joh Currie, the new president of the Ath-
letic Association, is also captain of the Wild-
cat track team, and is college record holder in

(Continued on ‘cay ©

McQueen is Chosen
to Edit Chameleon

In a recent student body election, Brown |
McQueen, Jr., was chosen as editor of the |
‘Chameleon for the year 1928-’29. Nomina- |
tions of the outgoing staff were announced |
by the present editor, J. Gilmer Wharton.
They were, Rough A. Boggess and Mc-
Queen won by a rough majority of a hun-
dred, on the first ballot, only some three
hundred votes being cast. No nominations |
were made from the floor.

The elected McQueen is a very able man
for the position, having served well as the
editor of the ficetion department on the
27-28 staff, and as a contributing editor
on the last year’s staff of which “Mac” Aus-
tin was the head. McQueen is from Rae-
ford, N. C., and is a member of the Sigma

Delta social fraternity; as well, he is a mem-

ber of Sigma Upsilon, national honorary | School.

literary fraternity.
Queen will not, it is though by many, in- |
terrupt the Damon and Pythias bond be- |

tween the two, Boggess and McQueen, who |
in addition to being roommates, and fra- |
ternity brothers, members of the same class
and workers of equal rank on the one lit- |
erary production published by Davidson stu-

(Continued on page 8)

N. Cc. State Track

‘Cats.in Meet With Score of 73-5 3

Track teams of N. C. State and Davidson
halved first places in their track meet here

Saturday afternoon, but the Techmen were’

stronger in the seconds, winning the dual
meet, 73 to 53. In the first seven events the
Wildcats showed* superiority, and held a
slight lead, but in the distance runs and in
the weight events the men from West Ral-
eigh began to pile up the points which spelled
the victory.

The feature of the meet was the superb
running of Captain Currie for the ’Cats, and
the«splendid showing of Heath Whittle, his
companion in the dashes. “The Human
Flash” opened his collegiate season by easily
walking away with the 100 and 220-yard
dashes. In both events Whittle was close
behind. Dan Leftwich broke his own col-
lege record in the shot put, hurling the
weight for a total distance of 41 feet and
9 inches. Whittle also set a new mark when
he clipped off the low hurdles in 27.3 sec-
onds. Fry was on Whittle’s heels in this
race and showed beautiful form. Bailey and
Gardner turned in firsts in the pole vault
and high jump respectively. Paul Thrower
ran a hard race in the two-mile grind but
lost out on the last lap.

For State, Young and Brimley led the
scoring, the former accounting for 11 points
and the latter for 10. King’ easily won the
discus for the Techmen, hurling the discus
’ far beyond the best efforts of Davidson’s.en-
trants in this event.

Summary : |
100-yard dash—Currie, Davidson, first;
Whittle, Davidson; Koontz, State. Time, 10
seconds.
220-yard dash—Currie, Davidson, first;
(Continued on page 8)

"Theat Beats

|
|
|

Cadets Act Hosts
to Army Officers

Following the drill and-inspection Wednes-
day morning B Company, 5th Regiment of
Scabbard and Blade will give a luncheon at
the Pi Kappa Alpha House in honor of Lt.)
Col. Henry C. Merriam and Maj. William '
J. McCaughey, the inspecting officers.

This company of Scabbard and Blade was
installed on May 8, 1923. It has always been
composed of men who have been conspicuous
and prominent in college activities. There
are 11 active members at present and all,oc-
cupy outstanding positions on the campus.

Cadet Maj. Howard B. Arbuckle, Jr., who
is captain of B Company, 5th Regiment, has
been honored by membership in Phi Beta
Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa, Alpha Phi
Epsilon, International Relations Club. He
holds a position on the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet,
is president of the Panhellenic Council and
of the Eumenean Literary Society, and was
lately pronounced winner of the trophy cup
presented by the Pi Kappa Fraternity to the
most representative undergraduate in the 72
chapters of this fraternity.

tain Daugherity Ends
we at Davidson With |

|

Close of Present Term

P. M. S. and T. Concludes Four
Years’ Service as Instructor

TRANSFERRED T' TO BENNING ,

Infantry Initiation at Georgia
School Precedes Further Work
at Fort Leavenworth

With the close of the school year, Capt.
R. D. Daugherity, present P. M. S. & T. and
for four years a member of the War De-
partment staff stationed here, will have com-
pleted his services at Davidson. He leaves
his position here, which next year will be
filled by Major Scott, to attend the govern-
ment military school at Fort Benning, Ga.,
where he will take an advanced course of in-
struction for captains.

According to present plans, after the com-
pletion of a year’s work in the Infantry
School at Fort Benning, Captain Daugherity
will spend two years at Fort Leavenworth,
Kansas, ‘where he will also attend Infantry
With three years of instruction be-

The election of Mc-! hind him, he will then probably do foreign

service in the Philippines.

Since joining the service in 1916, Captain
(Continued on page 2)

Z. V. Long Chosen
as New President

in Soph Election

Zebulon Vance Long was recently chosen

|head of the rising Junior class by two ballots.

| Three men, were nominated for the presi-
| dency, Brohard, Nunan and Long. In the

| first ballot R. T. Nunan was eliminated, and

on the second vote Long was chosen to suc-
ceed Carl Pritchett, who has served as presi-
dent of the Soph class for the last year.

Long, a native of Statesville, N. C., has
been one of the leading men of the class of
30. He served this year in the capacity of
| secretary-treasurer of the student body and
last year as secretary-treasurer of the Fresh-
man class. He ig a member of the Reporters’
Club and of the Beavers’ Club, Sophomore
honor society. He was elected as alternate
football manager for next year. He was re-
cently initiated into Delta Pi Kappa, hon-
orary journalistic fraternity, and is the newly
appointed sports editor of “The Davidson-
ian.” He is second vice-president of the Y.
M. C. A. Long is a member of the Pi Kap-
pa Alpha social fraternity.

WHO IS DAVIDSON’S
CHOICE

In an effort to ascertain the pos-
sible strength of potential candidates
for the presidential nomination, The

. Davidsonian will join forces with other
collegiate publications of this state and
conduct a straw vote soon after the

Cadet Capt. C. C. Trabue is first lieutenant |;
of Scabbard and Blade, belongs to the Inter-
national Relations Club and to Beta Theta
Pi social fraternity.

Cadet Capt. W. B. Bradford occupies the
position of second lieutenant of B Company,
5th Regiment, and holds membership in, Phi
Beta Kappa, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, Inter-
national Relations Club and Biology Club.
He belongs to the Signta Alpha Epsilon fra-
ternity. \

Easter holidays. College editors be-
lieve that this procedure will not only
arouse student interest in the ap-
proaching campaign but will be a very
good index to the strength of the can-
didates of ‘the different sections of the
country. Davidson’s student body, com-
posed of students from 22 states, will,
to some degree, help in this attempt.
Further announcements will be made
after the holidays :

(Continued on page 6) . an

|

Mi

litary Department Under

riebection of Officials of

Army Staff of

Catawba Man Wins
Oratorical Contest

Charles S. Weir, representing Catawba
College in the second annual oratorical con-
test of the North Carolina Intercollegiate
Forensic Association, won the gold medal of-
fered to the winner of first place. Mr. Weir's
subject was “Our Country’s Need—Ideal-
ism.” The silver medal given as second prize
was awarded to H. M. Owl, of Lenoir-
Rhyne, who spoke on “The Challenge of the
American Indian.” Mr. Owl is himself a
Cherokee Indian, and has represented his
college on the baseball diamond and gridiron.

Seven North Carolina colleges were rep-
resented in this contest which was held Fri-
day night, March 30th. Two other speakers
who were well received by the audience were
Milbourne Amos, of High Point College,
speaking on “Intolererice Indicted,” and W.
W. Cohoon, of Wake Forest, whose subject
was “A True Eldorado.” In this talk Mr.
Cohoon lauded North Carolina’s progress.
Other speakers were Allan Frew, Davidson
College, speaking on “The Constitution of
the United, States ;” L. C. Williams, of Elon
College, speaking on “My Country First,”
and Rembert Patrick, whose speech was
“Prejudice Again Catholics in High Office.”

(Continued on page 8)

/ashington

Lieut.-Col. Meriam alin alka Major Mc-
Caughey Inspect Military De-
partment for Distinguished
Rating

Davidson’s unit of the Reserve Officers’
Training Corps is being inspected by Lieut\-
Col. Henry C. Meriam and Maj. W. J. Mc-
Caughey today. These officials began their
work this morning and will continue through
tomorrow. The inspection of the practical
and theoretical training of the students be-
gun with an examination of class room work
this morning and culminated in the re-
view on the drill field just before noon when
the students were released for the spring
recess.

Lieutenant-Colonel Meriam and Major
McCaughey are winding up a series of in-
spections of the schools in this area in which
R. QO. T. C. units are established. The two
officers arrived here last night from Greens-
boro, coming there from N. C. State, where
they finished an inspection in the early part
of. the week. Major Early, P. M. S. and T,
of that unit, brought the officers as far as
Greensboro, where Captain Daugherity met
and brought them down to Davidson.

The inspection this morning was devoted
to a thorough tour of examination of all the
work that is done by the students. All

(Continued on page 8)

Dr. Monroe Talks
on Medical Field

“A History of Medicine, and the Promise
of Medicine in the Future,” was the subject
of the talk made by Dr. J. P. Monroe, of
Charlotte, one of the South’s most famous
diagnosticians, here Wednesday. Dr. Monroe

was one of four noted speakers obtained by
the Vocational Guidance Institution for their
final week of service which was devoted to
medicine as a life work.

Medicine was discussed under three princi-
pal heads—anaesthesia, sanitation and anti-
septics. Dr. Monroe traced the history of

each of these phases from its origin begin-

He brought attention to the fact that Moses
was an authority on sanitation.
tians and Babylonians have left indications

healing.

But medicine as it is known today only

The Egypt-,

that they were not ignorant in the art of |
Pier fraternity.

N Av Editorial Staff of Davidsonian
Next Year Announced by Brown

Members of the editorial staff of The Da-
vidsonian were recently announced by Au-
brey Brown, editor-elect of the college week-
ly, who will take over the editorship of the
paper April 19th. The managing editors of
the new staff are F. D. Miller, C. M. Pratt
and R. F. Jarratt. Z. V. Long will hold the
position of sports editor, while V. A. Milton
will be news editor. The associate editors
are W. K. Pritchett, J. B. Morarity and C.
R. Lake. The news editor is an addition to
the present staff.

All of these men, with the exception of
the associate editors, who will be Seniors,
are members of the rising Junior class and
have been awarded positions with regard to
the merit of their previous work.

F. DeWolfe Miller, of Surgoinsville,
Tenn., besides being a member of the Re-
\porters’ Club, is an honor roll student, and a

ning with herb concoctions. of.the savages.on 'member of the varsity debating squad. He
up to highly developed laboratory methods. | won first place qn the Freshman debating

team last year. Charles M. Pratt is a son
of Dr. C. H. Pratt, of the faculty of Louis-
ville Theological Seminary, Louisville, Ky.
Pratt is a member of the Delta Theta Chi
He is especially active
along publicational lines, having been a mem-
ber of the Reporters’ Club and an energetic

started with such pioneers as Harvey, the | worker on the Quips and Cranks. He has
discoverer of the circulatory blood system, a out joe spt eae 4 Varsity de-
ting. rt arratt, who comes from
and Pasteur, who discovered that disease was ak ye Maris Teun W's ; pays
caused by germs. After this fundamental Gamma Delta, social fraternity and of the
knowledge was added medicine took rapid~ Reporters’ Club. Jarratt is an assistant base-
strides forward. However, in spite of its ball manager.
present proficiency, a great field is open. The new 5 Sports editor, Z. V. Long, of
Dr. Monroe maintained that man’s life was Statesville, N.C, is a member of Pi Kappa
only one-half that apportioned to him by the Alpha, national social fraternity. Long, also

proportional length of an animal’s tite to his a member of the Reporters’ Club, has held
period of development, ( (Comrret es eae :

