THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 4, 19 28

{+ Sport Talk -

News and Views of Wildcat
Events

By Raymond Lake

*The Wildcats don’t do very much in the
distance runs, but when it comes to the dashes
they’re righ there with the goods and at the
head of the line, too. In their meet Saturday
with the State team, the Wildcats were in the
lead and stayed there until near the last part
of the meet. Whittle showed up unusually
well and pushed Currie mighty close for first
place in the 100-yard dash. In the 220-yard
low hurdles, he again showed up well and
came out at the head of the race, breaking
one of the college records. In the high
hurdles, Brown would have had the race
easily, but knocked over three hurdles and
was disqualified.

Leftwich also was in good form and broke
another of the college records. The Aik
record, which was also held by Leftwich,
was 39 feet 9 fiiches for’ the 1* pound shot,
and the new record set by him last Saturday
was 41 feet 3 inches, 1 foot and 6 inches
better than the former record. The meet
was not unusually fast, but breaking two col-
lege records in one afternoon is no very com-
mon occurrence. Gardner, though he did not
break a college record, went higher than he
has ever jumped before, and took first place
in the high jump.’ ‘He had never been higher
than 5 feet 6 inches before, and he took the
high jump Saturday at 5 feet 10 inches.

The Freshmen also came out on the bottom
in their meet last Friday with the Charlotte
High School team. The score of each of the
meets was fairly close, but the visitors came
out on the top in each case. No records were
broken in the Freshman meet and it was not
unusually fast or out of the ordinary, but the
Wildkittens showed up well nevertheless,
and deserve praise for their work.

The home teams seem to be on a “losing
‘ spree,” or seem to have been last week at any
rate. The baseball team also lost its game
with the Elon Christians by a score that does
hot flatter the home team in the least, 6 to 0.
McInnis, on the mound for the Wildcats,
pitched a good game, but was not supported
by the other members of the team. In one
inning several errors were made and several
runs were given to the visitors without even
any resistance. The Wildcats tightened down
during the last few innings, and played a
good game of ball, but the Elon team was
too far ahead by that time and they were
able to hold their lead and to keep the Wild-
cats from scoring. The visitors had a good
team, and put two especially good pitchers
on the mound.

The Wildcats play the team from Penn-
sylvania next Tuesday, and if they can come
out ahead in this game they will redeem
themselves quite a bit for their losses last

-—

|Davidson Trackmen

In the second meet of the season, David-
son’s track team, led by dashing John Cur-
rie, will compete with the Blue Devils of
Duke University this afternoon in Durham.
Duke sustained an 80-46 defeat at the hands
of Carolina while the Wildcats were con-
quered by N. C. State 73-53 last week.

Indications point to a show of superiority
by Davidson in the dash events, with Duke
going strong in the distance and field events.
Captain Currie and Whittle will meet stiff
opposition, however, in the century in Bruton,
who defeated the Carolina cinderman with
the time of ten seconds flat, which was Cur-
rie’s time last Saturday. Leftwich’s lengthy
heave of the shot in the recent meet makes
him a favorite in the meet today.

The winning broad jump in the Carolina-
Duke meet was one of 20 feet 5 1-4 inches,
won by a Carolina man, and Gardner is be-
ing relied upon to win this event. His high
jump of 5 feet 3 inches Saturday was three
inches better than the Blue Devils could do
against the Tar Heels.

Bill Bailey, in the pole vault, will be re-
quired to do his best against Reed and Finley.
Twenty-two men together with Coach Tilson
and Manager Wearn are in Durham for this
dual meet.

week. A win over the Pennsylvania team
will raise their stock quite a bit and will
show that they have something more than
appears on the ‘surface. The game will no
doubt draw out a large crowd and it’s up to
the Wildcats to perform in their best form
on that day,

PRINTING |

When in need of first-class job
printing of any description, see

M. P. Crawford

QUICK SERVICE
BEST PRICES
Agent for

Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

Have you seen it?

What? Our new home, of course

needs.

CHARLOTTE
KNOXVILLE

We invite you to come in and let us show you how well equipped
we are to ably take’ care of all your Banking, Trust and Insurance

INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
McALISTER CARSON (’13) Mgr.

+

S& W Tifsenies

are catering to you
(ATLANTA Soon)
It You Want Your Frat Pin Back

ee Take Her a Bag 0’
_ Lance’s Salted Peanuts

!

M. B. SPEIR, JR. ('26)

ASHEVILLE
RALEIGH

eo 6 68 6 @ @ @ @ @ 6 ®

by Crew [From Elon for
Second Successive Year

Cats P Erratically Seem

yin,

Unable to Rally
HARRISON’S CATCH, FEATURE
Consistent Pitching of Briggs, Chis-

tian Hurler, Blanks Davidson
With 6-0 Score

In spite of all a bunch of scrapping Wild-
cats could do, another scrapping crew from
Elon College pulled the wool over their eyes
for the second straight year, and as a result
the ’Cats left the diamond Thursday after-
noon on the very short end of a 6-0 count.
A young man by the name of Briggs served
them up for the Christians so well that only
six widely scattered bingles were realized
from his delivery, and only on two occasions
did a Davidson player reach third base, there
to die ignominously. On the other hand
McInnis, Coach Monk’s best best on the
hurling proposition, was unable to repeat his
good performance of the Oak Ridge game,
and the visitors solved his delivery at criti-
cal times when hints meant runs.

For thé first two innings everything was
rosy, with the ’Cat infield looking good, ‘but
in the fatal third, Littlejohn and Harrison
failed to get together around the keystone
sack on several easy chances and before the
dust settled four runs were over the pan and
well chalked down. After this Briggs, who
had been hit rather freely by the ’Cats, tight-
ened up and was invincible, causing the hopes
of the Red and Black to drift away on the
wings of. numerous flies and easy grounders.
Smith, for the visitors, contributed some nice
slugging from time to time, as did Pitcher
Briggs, and two more counters were salted
away before the game ended.

The Wildcat hitters were woefully off
form, Kugler alone seeming able to connect
squarely. This veteran collected two nice
smacks to lead the local’s attack. Bennie
MacAuley caught a nice game, roaming far
and wide to grab difficult fouls. His throw
to second, however, was weak. Charlie Har-
rison contributed the fielding feature when
he ran far to his left, picked up a hot grass-
cutter with one hand and got his man at first.
Johnson pulled down a long drive in center
that had all the earmarks of a triple. At
times the ’Cats looked good in the field, but
the deciding factors in losing the game old
fielding lapses which occured so frequently
last season. Of course, Briggs’ pitching was
a mighty problem to overcome, and it is to be
questioned whether or not the swatsmiths of
the House of Younger ever would have got-
ten on to him.

Box score and summary follow:

ELON ABR HPOA
Harrington, ss -...----- 43065
Smith, 3b ~....-..--.... 40220
Briggs, H., 2b ~..-..... 540233: -6
Simppoli’ Gano 41110
Fowler, cf -.-.-..-..... § 11-20
Shepherd, c -------.-... 0150
Crutchfield, 1b .---....- 40051
Glarkjurt sooo 2 oe 306010
Briggs, V., p. --------.. 4325272
Totals eoussocu ccd 38 6 8 27 11
DAVIDSON ABR HPO A
Harrison; 2b ....-.-.-. 40121
Ratchford, If ~-..-...... 30100
Dulin, 3b ~----.-.----._ 40022
Johnson, cf ~...-.-..-.. 40031
Crawford, lb ~.--.... 30090
Kugler, cf-ss ..-.-..... 40210
Littlejohn, ss ~--....... 20112
McConnell, rf -....... 2001-0
McAulay, c --- See Se 30060
McGeachy, c ~--.-...-. 1-0.1.0 0
McInnis, p -.---...-... 20024
Henderson, p --....._._ 1 a 000
pesos ad Kids BESTS
otales wee ce os 33 0 627 10
Score by innings: RH
lon. oo 004 101 000— 6 8
Davidson ...-..... 000 000 000— 0 6
Three-base hit: Smith; two-base hits:

by Mc-

_————

Wildcat Nine Conquered
| Meet Duke Today

cooszoocoent

Sf autial cow»ccoowcoo~oet w

Crutchfield; base on balls:-off Briggs 2, off |

Fresh Lose Meet |
to Charlotte High

The Wildkitten trackmen lost their first '
meet of the season to Charlotte High last
Friday when the Queen City runners piled up
a total of 58 1-3 points to 49 2-3 points for
the young Wildcats. The Freshmen took the
lead early in the meet but were unable to
maintain it as the meet advanced, results of
the last event showing Charlotte to have the
lead by a margin of 13 points. A cold wind
blowing down the track hindered the runners
and jumpers in their events.

Neal, star Freshman sprinter, was high
point scorer for the meet, taking three first
places and piling up 15 points for his team. |
Mullis, of Charlotte, came second with 13
points, and Reid, of Charlotte, third with 10
points.

Summary :

100-yard dash—Neal, Davidson Fresh,
first; Hicks, Charlotte; Goodykoontz, Da-
vidson Fresh; Wilson, Charlotte. Time 10.5
seconds.

220-yard dash—Neal, Davidson Fresh,
first; Hicks, Charlotte; Goodykoontz, Da-
vidson Fresh. Time 25 seconds.

440-yard dash—Neal, Davidson Fresh,
first; Woodside, Charlotte; Goodykoontz,
Davidson Fresh. Time 56 seconds.

120 low hurdles—Reid, Charlotte, first;
Johnson, Charlotte; George, Davidson Fresh.
Time 15 seconds.

880-yard run—Sherrill, Charlotte, first;
Earley, Charlotte; Drake, Davidson Fresh.
Time 2 minutes 15 seconds.

1-mile run—Davenport, Charlotte, first;
Wilson, Davidson Fresh; Lumpkin, Char-
lotte. Time 5 minutes 10 seconds.

Pole vault—Brock, Davidson Fresh, and
Houston, Charlotte, tied; Williams, Char-
lotte. Height 9 feet 9 inches.

Shot put—Mullis, Charlotte, first; Fraley,
Davidson Fresh; Van Avery, Charlotte. Dis-
tance 42 feet 8 1-2 inches,

High jump—Reid, Charlotte, first; John-
son, Charlotte; Dennis, Davidson Fresh, and
McColl, Davidson Fresh, tied for second.
Height 5 feet 7 inches.

Discus—Mullis, Charlotte, first; Fraley,
Davidson Fresh; Hall, Davidson Fresh.
first; Reid, Charlotte; Woodside, Charlotte.
Distance 116 feet 8 inches. ‘

Broad jump—McColl, Davidson Fresh,
Distance 20 feet 5 inches.

Javelin—Coble, Davidson Fresh, first;
Mullis, Charlotte, McCullough, Davidson
Fresh. Distance 142 feet 2 inches.

| Randolph-Macon

College Clothes for College Men—

Whether on the Campus or off
_ the Campus you'll find Tudor Hall
‘Clothes are accepted as the fore-

most style leaders in the field.

Virginia Invaded by ©
Cats on First Trip

With five games on their schedule, Coach
Younger’s Wildcat diamond artists are now
in the midst of a Virginia invasion taking
them to Lynchburg, Roanoke and V. P. L,
with an engagement with Guilford on the
northbound trip.

In the second collegiate game of the sea-
son, the Davidson bunch met Guilford on
Monday, proceeding to Lynchburg for two
games on Tuesday and Wednesday. (News
from these games was not available at the
time of going to press). Tomorrow they play
Roanoke College at Salem and go on to
Blacksburg to engage the V. P. I. aggrega-
tion. This game concludes ‘the trip and the
team will return to the campus to rest up
for the Easter Monday game with Carolina,
which will be played in Salisbury.

Attractive features of the Virginia trip
were stop-overs which were planned for
Woman’s_ College, at
Lynchburg and Sweetbriar, near Blacksburg,
where a number of “cousins” of the mem-
bers of the team are instructed.

The men who are on the trip are: Mc-
Auley and McGeachy, catchers; Meadows,
McInnis, Henderson, Doc Kugler, and
Maulden, pitchers; Crawford, Harrison,
Dulin, Littlejohn and John Kugler, infield-
ers; Johnson, Ratchford and McConnell, out-
fielders.

_ CAPTAIN DAUGHERITY

(Continued from page 1)
Daugherity’s duties have been many and
varied. In 1916, when stationed on the Mex-

ican border with the National Guards, he

decided to enlist as a regular. During the

World War he was for a while stationed in

this country, after which he was sent to
France, arriving just before the close of the
war. Abroad, he served for a while in
France and was for two years with the army
of occupation in Germany. Just previous to
his coming to Davidson, he was at Fort Ben-

ning in the Infantry School for company

commanders. -The course which he plans to

take next year is a more advanced course

and has to do more with field work.

The Captain has been greatly instrumental
in bringing the local battalion to its present
high’ standing by his services as disciplinary
officer, instructor and finally as the head of
the department. He has maintained the dis-
tinguished rating grade of work which was
achieved by his predecessor and has made
marked improvements in all divisions of the
work since his promotion to the rank of pro-
fessor of military science and tactics last
year,

“My stay at Davidson has been the most.
pleasant of all my duties,” remarked Captain
Daugherity, when interviewed about his work
here. His loss will be keenly felt by the

R. O. T. C. department and by the student
body as a whole, for in his four years of
service here he has made many friends, both
among those with whom he has been closely
connected in an official way and those who
have known him as the man he is,

Fe Snes ade ae 1

STOR EP?

