THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 29, 1928

STATESVILLE AND LOUISVILLE
ALUMNI ELECT NEW OFFICIALS
AT ENTHUSIASTIC GATHERINGS

Alumni at Louisville Entertoin
Wives and Frieds—Statesville
Alumni Discuss Need for
Increase in College

Enrollment

Davidson College alumni, permanently
or temporarily residing in Louisville,.Ky.,
held their atinual meeting Monday night
at the Kentucky Hotel in that city. It
was in the form of a dinner, and an un-
usual feature was that the wives
friends of the alumni were guests.

The officers who had served during the
past year were re-elected. They are Rev.
Thornton Whaling, D.D., ’'77, president;
Rev. R. M. Pegram, ‘11, vice-president,
and R. G. White, ’25, secretary-treasurer,

Dr. Whaling, as president, presided and
after extending a warm welcome to the
alumni and their guests, discussed “Da-
vidson Colege as Viewed by an Alumnus.”
He cited some striking features about the
college, mentioning the loyalty of the
alumnus, the breadth of the college, the
loyalty of Davidson to its own ideals as
a college of the highest grade, and told
about the growth of the institution.

Capt. C. E. Hodgin, Jr., '24, of the Ken-
tucky Military Institute at Lyndon, Ky.,
talked on the subject, “What Davidson
Did for Me;” C. V. Brown, ’24, spoke on
“What I Can Do for Davidson” and A. M.
Martin, ’25, closed with “Humor at Home
at Davidson.” ©

The association as a unit passed a unani-
mous resolution of loyalty to the college.

At Statesville

A small but enthusiastic group of Da-
vidson alumni in Iredell county also held
their meeting at Statesville Monday night,
the principal purpose me the election of
officers. Karl Sherrill, ’r2, was elected
president; J. B. Chadian, ’OI, vice-presi-
dent, and J. H. Gentry, ’13, secretray-
treasurer.

The alumni were of the opinion that
they should play a larger part in get-
ting students of the highest type to at-
tend Davidson, and the president ap-
poined a committee composed of J. W.
DeArmon, '24; J. B. Johnston, ’or; J. H.

and

Gentry, ’13, and J. A. Scott, ’11, to inter-
view graduating students in the Iredell
county schools, and urge them to choose
Davidson.

During the evening the question of the
size of Davidson in the future arose. The

Mooresville Ice Cream Company

Incorporated
MANUFACTURERS OF

“DE LUXE” ICE CREAM

BRICK AND FANCY CREAMS AND DeLUXE CUPS
Mooresville, N. C. ,

CALL US FOR SPECIAL ORDERS

ison five

ALUMNI MARRIAGES

‘Dr. Geo. H. Cornelison,

Noted Minister of Southern Presby-

Mr. Charles Alanson Young, '24, of |
New York City,
Suzanne Becker, daughter of Dr.

Mrs. Frederick W.

on Friday evening, March oth, in the city
of their residence.
the employ of the New -York Bell Tele-
phone Company, having been engaged in
this work since his graduation at David-
vears ago. With his bride,
will make his home at 449 Mountainview
Avenue, Orange, New Jersey.

Mr. W. A. Elliott, '00, was married to
Miss Barbara Graf, of Washington, at
Baltimore on March 22nd, according to an
announcement receiyed this week by the
alumni office. Mr. Elliott who is located
in Washington, D. C., will continue to
reside in that city, where he and his bride
have made their home.

consensus of opinion was that a problem
is arising regarding the sons of alumni,
and because Davidson was forced to re-
fuse admittance to so many applicants
each year, the Statesville alumni felt that
the institution must expand—like a busi-
ness. They agreed that it should be a
gradual increase, so that the students can
be assimilated properly.

For
Heating and Plumbing

Contractor of
Rare Excellence

See

Elliott & Byers

Phone 78-W

was married to Miss | | Davidson College in the class of 1802, died
and | of pneumonia at his home in New Orleans,
3ecker, of New York,| March sth, according to news recently re-

Mr. Young is now in|
8 Orle

he| from 1889 until 1892 when he received his

a

Lm nes} =

——

TAKE YOUR CHOICE HERE!

We have at all times a complete stock of

New Orthophonic Victrolas

Brunswick Panatropes

Victor and Brunswick Records
New Records Every Friday

iGamplete Line of RCA
adios from $69.50 to $895.

Parker-Gardner Co.

and

Also

o———————

Davidson Alumni, Dies
at Louisiana Residence

terian Church Dies After Long
and Useful Life

Dr. George H. Cornelson, graduate of

ceived by officials of the alumni office. Dr.
Cornelson’s body was carried from New
ans to Clinton, S. C., where funeral
services were conducted on March vth, |

A native of Orangeburg, S. C, Dr.
Cornelson attended Davidson College

diploma. He later attended Columbia
Theological Seminary at which institution
he received his B.D. degree. Davidson
College awarded him a Doctor of Divinity
degree some years afterwards.

A recent edition of the Concord Tribune
declared that “the name.of Dr, George
Cornelson is one of the most illustrious in
that comparatively large group of the
more popular ministers of the Southern
Presbyterian Church. A keen student of
the Bible and a gifted orator, Dr. Cornel-
son was responsible for many conver-

-report to New York where he will renew |

| psyc

sions to Christ. He always spoke as he
thought, and ‘what he thought,

seemed to have afi inspired instinct for |

that one thing that would be typical of |,
. LA ee 27, now teaching and coaching at Wood- | with a thrilling challenge to men considering

the whole—the essential thing. Because |
of his accurate voicing of the teachings of
Christ, he was beloved by all who heard
him. He was universally known as one
of the potent factors % the deevlopment
and growth of the Southern Presbyterian
Church.”

During his years. as a minister, Dr.

Cornelson. held pastorates at Concord, N.
. C.,, Nashville,
At the latter

C., Malvern, Ark., Aiken, S
Tenn., and New Orleans.

COLLEGE JEWELRY

Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils

Seal Stationery

Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler

DAVIDSON, N. C.

Fresh Country Vegetables

STAPLE AND FANCY
GROCERIES

Fellows, see us for replenishing
your Fraternity House larders

BARNETT AND COMPANY

DAVIDSON, N. C.

FELLOWS!

You'll always find a well-

equipped U-Drive-It Ford

at the right price at

Henderson’s Filling Station

DAVIDSON, N. C.

|

iC, C, Orr,’
and he}

ALUMNI PERSONALS

Reports which declared that John S., Dr. Frank A. Sharpe,
McRae, '27, had returned to America from | horo, has been elected president of the
Smyrna, Greece, as a result of serious ill- staff of St. Leo's Hospital in that city. Durs,,
ness, were proved false this week when |

Rae q 2 , : ri s visit ‘ °
McRae _ stopped n pis ail We handled by this hospital, most of
pugncs in ak oie day ae : 5.4...) Which called for surgical operations.
slight, and his return to the United States
was due to no serious break in his health.
After a brief period of rest, McRae will

‘ro, of Greens-

ing the past year a total of 1,848 patients
| were

Davidson alumni who were seen at the

his work as an employee of the Alston To- high school track meet here last Saturday

bacco Co., probably remaining in America, WETe J.B. Johnston, ‘or, Barium Springs;
His friends among the alumni of the col- J. W. McAlister, 19, Greensboro, L. ae
lege will be gratified to learn that his con- W ilkinson, 13, C Waele Dr. D. H. Nis-
lition is not as serious as first reported. bet, 13, ( harlotte ; Ralph : McMillan, 26,
ak : | Barium Springs; R. L. Mitchell and W.
M. Treverton, both 1627 graduates at

Dr. R. P. Smith, '73, treasurer of the | Rockingham, NOt Do Laws ae Co

Asheville Presbytery and moving spirit in
religious circles of western North Caro-
lina, has been chosen to deliver the com-
méneement sermon at Murphy, N. C., on
April tst: :

lumbus, Miss.

e e

Dr. Addison Brenizer of
ent ya awemtaric ictume,| CUarlotte to Speak on

Establishment of a psychiatric institute, Ps
to be located at Hillcrest Manor) Ashe- | Surgery Friday at 7:30
ville, and to function as distinct from any te
other hospital or sanitarium, was recently
anounced. The attending staff of the new
hiatric institute includes among its

Dr. Addison Brenizer, a noted surgeon of
Charlotte and a well-known and_ popular
membership five Davidson alumni, name- | doctor throughout the state, will speak to
ly, Drs. G. H. Croom, ’07; Bernard Smith, |the men of Davidson who are interested in
06; J. L. aa ‘06: L.. G. Beall, 'o0; and | surgery, , in Shearer hall, on Friday night at
7:30.

Dr. Brenizer is a recognized authority in
J. H. McConell, president of the class of | his line of surgery, and will have a message

| berry Forest School, Woodberry Forest, i medicine as a life work. He is supercharged
Va., was a recent visitor to the college. | with a positive faith in the latent possibilities
_-_ | of students, and has a keen desire as well

Professor F, P/ Hall, '87, for many years as an unusual ability for helping young men.
superintendent of schools in Gaston, Dr, Brenizer will be the closing speaker
County, N. C., was elected president of ; Dr. Brenizer will be the closing speaker
the North Carolina Educational Associa- lof the six-weeks’ session of the Vocational
tion at a recent meeting in Raleigh. Guidance Institute. The Vocational Guid-
——— ;ance has been under the supervision of the
Dr. John M. Belk, of Monroe, brother |local Y. M. C. A., and has been of inestim-
of W. H. Belk, trustee of the college, and | able value to the students. It has brought
half-brother of Dr. W. D. Simpson, '08, of | many of the most outstanding men of leading

Greenville, S. C., died at his home on| professions to the help of men perplexed
Marth 21. Executive head of the Belk| with the question of a life work. It has
chain of forty-seven stores, prominent! presented the Ministry through Dr. Ben R.

physician, and widely-known philanthrop- | Lacy, president of Union Theological Semi-
ist, Dr. Belk was one of the &tate’s lead- |nary, of Richmond, Va.; Business, through
in citizens, and his death is being mourned | Mr. H. S. Richardson, one of the manufac-

by a large circle of friends and associates | turers of Vick’s Salve; Law, through we
through Dr. W.

throughout the southeast. | Parker, and Medicine,
| Davison. These men of wide experience,

The recent death of J. G. Burrus, father | and among those who stand at the forefront
of Dr. J. T. Burrus, 1900, of High Point, | in their various fields of service, have been
N: C., president of the North Garalinallof invaluable aid to the many men who have
Medical Society, occasioned sorrow among | attended the sessions.
many friends and relatives of the state. Voeéational Guidance at Davidson has
Mr. Burrus was one of Surry County’ ‘| proved practical, helpful, and profitable, and
most prominent citizens both in public and vit is the “Y’s” purpose to continue it m
religious affairs, having served for 14 | coming years.
years as chairman of the county board of |
commissioners, for 62 years as superin- |
tendent of the Elkin Presbyterian Sunday |
School, and a moderator of the Yadkin
association for 27 years.

Elon College, Feb. 6. (CP)—The heads
of the Education faculties of the North
‘Carolina colleges will meet in annual ses-
: ; | sion at Elon College on February 11. This
Mr, Johii A. Sedtt, "11, for the past year! organization is headed by Dr. John H.

ae Ate ie Sr evpiih council ae Cook of the N. C. C. W faculty, and comes
Be Ree Cee ky aeamiert, a1ein pers to Elon College this year upon the invi-

ue eo any dy es be al of the Kin- |tation of Prof. O. W. Johnson, head of
MERE 04 OL AMARBRY ING: /the Educationa Department of Elon.

v

J. E. McQueen, ’20, and R. U. Woods,
23, who recently formed a new _corpora-|in the Y. M. C, A? hall at the college, and
tion of McQueen and Woods, will be) supper will be served by the Religious
ready to distribute their new product, the | Education Committee of the Elon College
“Queenwood Curvlamp” about April 5th. | | students and faculty. About 50 members
The new invention is a light which is| of the N. C, college Educational. faculties
placed in the front center of a car, throw-| are expected to be present for this meet-
ing a light forty feet ahead, and which is lj jing, which will be presided over by Dr.
so attached it faces the direction | Joh H. Cook, head of the Education De-
which the wheels are turned. _|partment of the North Carolina College
for Women at Greensboro.

The conferences will meet at 6:00 p. m.

church he served as pastor for 17 years,
resigning two years ago to become a
member of the home mission committee
of the Presbytery.

His death will be mourned by a wide
circle of friends and relatives throughout

i the South, as well as by the students, fac-

ulty and trustees of Davidson College, of

»

which he was ever a loyal alumnus.

Following. the supper the conference
will go into its regular session for the
discussion of two main topics, the prep-
aration of Elementary and High School
teachers, and the part the universities
should have in training teachers. Dr.
Thomas J. Wilson, Jr., of the University
of North Carolina will lead the discus-
sion on this latter subrent:

