THEDAVI

MD son

:

IAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XV.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 10, 1928 :

P. B. Fry is Elected to
Presidency of Gleemen
Succeeding J. S. Foster

R. S. Abernethy Elec Elected to Position
of Business Manager for Coming
Year by Club

FINAL CONCERT FRIDAY

“Alb ‘o“t and Thompson Elected to
Vice-Presidencies

Paul .ry was elected president of the
Glee (15 for the coming year last Tues-
day ' at. The concert for that night
was pc; poned and election of officers for

the-coming-year-held instead: The other.

officers as elected were C. J. Albright,
and A. J. Thompson, vice-presidents, and
A. S. Abcernathey, business manager. The
origin. olan of the club was to hold a
final concert that night in Shearer Fall,
but due to the fact that there was,,no
heat in the building that night it was
called off until Friday night.

The concert Friday night will be the’

last appearance of the Glee Club this year.
The purpose of the concert is primarily
to give the students and townspeople a
chance to hear the entire program of the
club, being as it has only presented parts
of its prograni here at different times.

Fry has been been active in musical
lines from the moment’ he entered David-
son. He has been on the Glee Club for
two years and last year a member of the
Sunnyland Serenaders. He is a member
of Ministerial Band, and comes from
Blacksburg, S. C., entering with the pres-
ent Junior class. Albright is also a mem-,

ber of the Sunnyland Serenaders, playing | states

the. banjo, and
Symphony Orchestra.

comes from Richmond, Va.
(Continued on page 8).

Norris Trophy Election
to be Completed Friday

Currie, Grey, and Harrison Left in
Trophy Race

Winner of the Norris Athletic Trophy
will be announced after the final vote tomor-
row morning. The results of the vote taken
in chapel showed that the last ballot will be
composed of the names of John Currie, Dick
Grey and Charlie Harrison.

The Norris Athletic Trophy has been
given at Davidson for the past five years by
the Norris Candy Company, of Atlanta. This
company has sponsored for a number of
years the athletic field work and scholastic
average, for the individual athlete. Ac- |

cording to the rules of the contest as drawn | | year.
up by this. company and the athletic council | tion will be augmented by the addition of
here, the winner will be on an average stand-' about 12 or 14 new members, who will be
ing in his studies and also outstanding in| takert in at the final initiation of the year,

athletics.

In 1924, Flake Laird won the Norris
trophy. The following year the trophy was
not awarded but was won by Harry Vance
in 1926. Ernest Bohannon carried off the
athletic honors last year.

The trophy is the identical of those in
previous years. It is in the form of a large
silver loving cup standing about 18 inches
high. For the past few days it appeared on
exhibition in the window of the White Drug
Company. The cup, according to rules, will
be awarded as a part of the commencement
program.

Friday morning during the chapel period
the final vote of the contest will be taken.
The rules require that a group of six shall
be nominated by the Norris Trophy Com-
mittee and at the first vote hte three lowest
contestants shall be dropped; while at the
final vote the winner shall be chosen from

_ the remaining three. Those nominated by
(Continued on page 8) |

6 n

Neophytes Chosen
For Beavers chub

Ten men were : foenuite initiated si
the Beavers Club Wednesday _ night. |
These men were Dean Rusk, S. S. Wiley, |
Archie McLean, Harry Moffett, Bob King,
Dan Lafar, Charles Sisson, Pete Glidewell,
R. G. Wilson, and W. A. Armfield. These
men were elected to the society Monday

night; May 7, at -the-mecting—of—the
Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary
fraternity. They ‘were pledged to the
club Tuesday morning after chapel. The
formal initiation was held in Eu_ hall,
scene of many campus activities in the
past.

Each year ten men are selected from
the rising Sophomore- class to- form this
club, The Beaver Club is an honorary
Sophomore society, local in nature. The
first or charter members came from the
present Senior class, thus making this
year’s selections the fourth group: to be
taken into the society. The purpose of
the Beaver Club is to have a group of
men whose duty is to be of service to the
good-will of the college in any way pos-
sible. The express duties of the club are
to welcome all visiting teams and to pay
especial attention to them, to render all
possible services at conventions, football
games, athletic contests of other natures.
and at all public functions of the college.

Rusk is from Atlanta, Ga., Wiley from
Salisbury, McLean from Lumberton, N.
C.. Moffett from Davidson Kine from
Nashville, Tenn., Lafar grom Gastonia,
Sisson from Winona, Miss., Glidewell
from Reidsville, N. C., Wilson from Ma-

is the director of the, tiring Beavers are S. N.. Brown,

He is a member of | | Brow
the Sigtna Delta social fraternity, and, 'Hat\
Thompson is | W. R, Hill, A R. Mobley, and Z. V. Long,

Wearers of the “D”

rion, N. C. and’ Armfield is from Ashe-
boro, N. C. They represent four different
and ten different cities. The re-
FE. R.
n, ae White, Bob Erckman, A. N.

‘erstadt, A. T. Edleman, Alan Frew,

Jr. \

Elect New Cabinet

Election of officers for the coming year
was made recently by the “D” Club. The
men who were elected to succeed the old
cabinet are Nat Hunt, president; W. H.
Flythe, vice-president, and J. L. Ely, secre-
tary and treasurer. The retiring body of

officers is made up of J. W. Melton, presi-
dent; W. R. Grey, vice-president, and W. O.
Nesbit, secretary and treasurer. |

The “D” Club was organized for the-bene-
fit of Davidson athletes, and one of the con-
ditions of eligibility is the winning of a let-
ter in some sport. At present the member-

ship of the club is around 43; of this num-
ber nearly 20 men will Jeave school this
However, the roll of the organiza-

on Friday night, May 11th, ‘These new
members will be chosen from the men who
have won letters this year in basketball,
wrestling, baseball and track.

In retiring the past president of the club,
in behalf of his cabinet, has asked that their:
appreciation of the co-operation of the stu-

(Continued on page 8)
SRAM de NL OR OL EL eLELeLELeLeLeReLeR ee eter eter er er er ere:
- BULLETIN
News was received here yesterday
morning by E. P. Moye, president
of Gamma Nu Tau, local classical
organization, that membership in

Eta Sigma Phi, national classical

fraternity, had been granted by the

Executive Council and the National

Convention in session at Iowa City.

The local chapter will be Alpha Nu

and the date of installation will be

announced later.

STUDENTS HEAR SPEECH
BY PROMISING RUSSIAN

Baron Heyking Addressed Students} Sc
Friday Night on “The Russian
Riddle”

, LARGE GROUP ATTENDS

Heyking International Authority on
Diplomacy and Law

A large group of Davidson ‘students and
townspeople assembled in Shearer Hatt-last
Friday night to hear Baron Alphonse Hey-
king, distinguished Russian nobleman, whose
subject was “The Russian Riddle.”

Baron Heyking was educated at the Uni-
versity of Dorpat, now in Esthonia, but at
that ‘time a part of the university system of
the imperial ~Russian government. After
taking his degree there, he lectured at Dor-
pat for several years on diplomacy and law.

He left this post to take over the chair as |

lecturer on Diplomatic and Consular Serv-

ice and International Law at the University |
of Geneva, where he distinguished himself ,

as a student of international diplomatic and
economic conditions.

The Russian government acknowledged
his ability by appointing him 2 Consul
General in London and later in British fn

dia. He also served as Minister of Foreign
Affairs in Petrograd from 190! }905,
as State Counsellor in 1908. In
Baron Heyking has been devoting his tim
to the care of the racial minorities in L atvia }
and Esthonia,

and

Sent by the Carnegie Peace Foundation,
Baron Heyking spoke on the problem of the
conditions existing at the present in Russia,
He briefly traced the history of Russia,
showing how the present gtate of affairs has

come-about.— Political, haa: economic and

religious detay has plunged Russia into a
pitiable condition. literacy dominant,
the leaders are Bolshevik and are ruling with
greedy hands, and the common people, 92
per cent of the Russian population, ‘have no
chance to express themselves in the govern-
ment.

After picturing in a vivid manner the
status Of Russian development and civiliza-
tion, Baron Heyking offered no remedy for
the unfortunate conditions. He stated that

is

| ‘
recent years | (

“The Russian Riddle” was the unanswerable
riddle of the world today. He did state,
however, in a private interview, that the
American government should) never lend
money to Russia under any conditions, be-
cause the Bolshevik government would use
it to spread Bolshevik propaganda in Amer-

N. C. Wins State Track
Meet Held at Memorial

Stadium in Greensboro

Davidson Places Third With Total
Score of Twenty-Seven Points

DUKE SECOND

Currie Ties With Two for High
Score

University of North Carolina track ‘team
proved to be too great an obstacle for the
other contesting teams to overcome, and so
won the state track meet held at the Me-
morial Stadium in Greensboro last Satur-
day with a total of 59.4 points. Duke came
second with 40.7, and Davidson was third
with -2Z.,points.

Three. state: records were shattered, and
new ones hung up as a result of the competi-
tion Saturday. Erwin, of Duke, broke the
record in the quarter mile run with a time of
50.4 seconds. Elliott, of Carolina, broke his
own record :in the mile by running it in four
minutes, 23 and 2-5 seconds. Evans, of
Carolina, won the half mile in 1 minute and
5 2-5 seconds, defeating Woodard, of Duke,

ica and other foreign countries.

the wis brought |
through the eft i the |
Club. with Tvre
Baron came |

y ike

| Baron
Dil
re

Relation
president. “The
W., whe
left Davids:

They
{ ierhyt

m Fro
Va., where

he will speay to the «

Randolph-Macon

Major Clark Here

To Present Awards)

The annual presentation of R. O. T. C.
awards to the members of the local battalion
was made yesterday, May 10th, at the morn-

ing drill period, by Maj. Walter Clark. A
8 I y b be Davidson for almost twice that long, Da-

This | vidsonians witnessed the passing of the title
{of the oldest servant of Davidson College

final parade for R. O. T. C. graduates took
place at the afternoon drill period.
parade marked the last that Captain Daugh-

erty, professor of military science and tac- |
| South here on the campus.

|days of slavery and the log cabin,
| lived to see the termination of slavery and,

tics, will witness as commandant of the mili-
tary department at Davidson.

At the morning period Major Clark, after |
an impressive speech to the men of the bat-|

talion, read the following general order, and | J

delivered the awards accordingly :
Cadet Captain C. C. Trabue, winner of |

Faithul Semiant
Works 50 Years’

|

| With the death of Baxter Williamson last

| week, faithful old darkey janitor of the col-
lege for 40 years and resident of the vicinity

and the last of remaining symbols of the old
Baxter

of more significance, the many changes that
avidson College has gone through in the
| disputed 81 years that he lived.

Baxter was born in the early fifties on the |

the cup given by the Davidson- Cornelius | old Patterson plantation, which was located

Post No, 86, of: the American Legion, for
best cadet captain.
Cadet 2nd Lieut. R. A. Glenn, commanding

the 2nd Platoon of Company “B”, winner of
jthe cup given by the Davidson Book and

Stationery Company, for the
platoon commander,

Cadet Ist Lieutenants J. M. Gudger and
C. W. Taylor, 2nd Lieutenant S. W. Vance,
Corporal FE. D. Lennon, and Private R. D.
Russell, awarded monogram crossrifles, given
by the Henderson Jewelry Company, for
members of the 1928 rifle team.

Cadet 2nd Lieutenant S. W. Vance, win-
ner of the Captain Reid Morrison medal,
given for the best rifle shot in the battalion.

Cadet Corporal T. R. Nunan, winner of
the Crayton Motor Company medal, given to
the corporal of the best drilled squad in the
battalion. .

Cadet Privates lst Class C. M. Pratt, -C.
R. Pritchett and Cadet Privates A. W. Mc-
Lean, H. S. Munroe, J. S, Neal, G. W. Pay,
and F. Pilcher, winners of. bar medats given
by the Stowe Brothers Theater for members
of the best drilled squad in the battalion.

Cadet Private S. S. Wiley, winner of the
White Drug Company medal given for the
best caliber 30 rifle shot in the Freshman
class,

Cadet Private Harry Mixson, winner of
the M. H. Goodrum Company medal for
the best caliber 22 gallery rifle shot in the
Freshman class, : \

best cadet

five miles from Davidson. Born in” slavery,
he remained so until its abolition which fol-
lowed a few years later. Baxter remained
with the Pattersons until the year 1873, when
he came to Davidson to work. Some time’

Born in the |’

| sports feature editor.

by only a few feet.
Me

iurdles

ith Whit

m

y hurd!

ext to
ip knees consis
Javid
year mm suce
eyent im ther
al 5 second 0
for uic Wildcats, negotiated his alloted 440
j yards in 49,* seconds, or 1 1-5 seconds bet-
|ter than the state record for this distance,
la record just hung up by Erwin a few min-
utes. before.

(Gontnied on page 8)

Department Editors Are
Chosen for Davidsonian

Stokes, Anderson, Brown, Mc-
Cutchan, and Dickinson Are
Editors

As a result of a need for new department
editor, feature editor, columnists, and special
were appointed to the staff of The David-
sonian by the editor-in-chief, A. N. Brown.
These five men will fill the posts of social
editor, feature editor, columists, and special

The men appointed to
*, Stokes, social editor;
D. P. Anderson, feature editor; J. W. Mc-

fill the posts are D. 1

prior to ’73 Baxter had journeyed a few
miles north,of Davidson to find for his wife |
Maggje Reed, who had been raised by the |
planter John Reed. |

When Baxter came to Davidtion in ’73, at |
the age of 20, he found work on the farm of
H. P. Helper, Sr., who is the father of H. P.
Helper, well known here in Davidson. Bax-
ter continued his farm work with the Help-
ers until some time in the late eighties, when |
he began work for the college. It is said |
that Baxter was an active young darkey in|
those days.

Baxter’s first job with the college was
that of janitor, and for 40 years he has held
this and various other jobs that have ranged
from that of janitor to the more recent work
that was given him because-of ‘his age.
Through all these years Baxter has remained
faithful to his duties until his last illness of
about a month ago. The death of Baxter’s
wife preceded his own by four years.

Tn his passing not only has the title of the
oldest janitor gone into new hands, but also
a joy to long absent, returning alumni, has
been removed. New buildings might be in
the places of the old ones and the campus
might have changed, but in Baxter they al-

* (Continued on page 8)

| handed in by the contestants.
| partment is a new feature of The Davidson-
| jan.

Cutchon’ and J... Brown, columnists, and
J. Q. Dickinson, sports feature writer.

A number of men tried out for these of-
fices after a call had been issued in chapel.
They were only appointed after a careful
consideration of the merits of the articles
The social de-

The social editor will appoint one man
from each fraternity to be an official cor-
respondent from that fraternity to report
all social activities. Social news of interest
to Davidson students at other schools will be
reported. The feature page will be similar
to the one already in the paper, with only a
few minor changes. The two columnists
will contribute on alternate weeks, one col- .
umn will be similar to “Ollipodria” and will
be called “Cosmic Chaos,” the other column
is to be called “This and That.” :
On the sport page the services of J. Q.
Dickinson have been secured to write on
sport topics of interest. Their will be

national and international. John Q. is one
of the most widely informed men in college
today on the subject of sports. The title of :

the column is to be “John Q’s Dope.”
D. T. Stokes is a member of
(Continued‘on page ®

il
