4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 26, 1928

The Divilsoniin

Member ef North Carolisa Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
As

tion

NDED BY: CLASS OF '15
bath Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Secon: jass

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the

M i Editer by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re-
ceive Troms an waicnéwn source will not be published.
AUBREY N. BROWN, JR. --------.---------- Editor-in-Chief
Mit PE CRAWFORD eauissene co cca ae Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
EDITORIAL STAFF

F. D. MILLER_---- --Managing Editor
Cc. M. PRATT --.-- -Managing Editor
R, F. JARRATT --Managing Editor
Z. V. LONG Gudesn Soubsssetsasdecbsnuusescaaanuaee orts Editor
V. A. MILTON ...- 22.2.2. 222-- 222 none nnn nn ne nnne ews Editor
G. R. LAKE ...--.. Associate Editor
. B. MORTARTY _-.. --Associate Editor
W. K. PRITCHETT - .-Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

R. S. .--Assistant Business Manager
$8. J. ALLISON...-.. ..-Assistant Business. Manager
Ww. M. stant Business Manager
P.
BW
Si Wi MORRIS nas occas oc ceccqancacssccnccscscssenncebe i
W. B. McGUIRE Pe Ry he eae pea; | Solicitor
E. H. McCALL es

REPORTERS’ CLUB ;

L. ELY President
K Sy HEEPNER > Secretary-Treasurer
E. S. cE Fe ge - F

P. R. ALDERMAN . V. MIDDLETON

D. P. ANDERSON . T. NUNAN

S. R. COKER (# PRESTON

Cc. H. DUBOSE . C. RAGIN

A. FREW D. RUSK

P. B. FRY C. A. SISSON

J. R. GRAHAM D, T. STOKES |

R. W. KIRKPATRICK W. R. WEAVER

S. H. LONG S. S. WILEY

“ E
DE wreseee SAV A UBER TT TT CTY | N. C. C. P. Reporter
BAIM WIDELY: utes takdebbabscoctaukucouada N. C. C. P. Reporter

EDITORIAL

TO THE VISITORS

The class of ’29 feels greatly honored to
have as its-visitors for the week-end such a
gathering of “Southern beauties” as now
bedeck the calm and stately campus of old
Davidson. The class deems it a rare priv-
ilege to entertain such visitors, and wishes
for them a most enjoyable stay over the
week-end. This is the first time the junior
entertainmentsehave been held at a time out-
side of the spring holidays, and the number
of visitors:as well as students who are wit-
nessing the affairs seem to voice approval of
the new plan. ;

There has been much criticism of the so-
cial life, or rather the lack of social life at
Davidson during the past few years, but
judging from the visitors who are favoring
the campus with their presence this week-
end, we may correctly say that the infre-
quency of such visits is made up for by the
quality as well as the quantity of the visitors
when such an affair does come off. The
green of the campus is refreshing to the
eyes in the springtime without any added
adornment, but its beauty this week-end is
due to more than the verdant carpet laid for
the occasion by Mother Nature.

The author of that famous saying about a
young man’s fancy in the springtime, if he
could visit the fair city of Davidson during
this week-end would in all probability re-
ceive enough inspiration to issue another
statement which would in time become
equally as famous as the one quoted above.
The moon has not lent its aid to the young
man’s fancy on this occasion, however, Per-
haps the old man felt his short-comings in
the presence of such fair company and de-
cided to save his energy for a later date.

Here’s to the guests of ’29! May their
visit be an enjoyable one and one which will
Long remain in their memory!

THE NEW PLAN

As mentioned in the above article, the
Junior class has.been rather severely criti-
cized in several instances for changing the
plane for Junior Speaking from what they

ave been for the past several years to the
program which is being put on by the class
of ’29 this week-end. It seems that some of
those who-are most severely criticizing this
action are the very ones who were strongest
in their criticism of the old plan. This, how-
ever, is no more than might have been ex-
pected.

The present plan is certainly far more
The critics of this plan must |

economical.
certainly admit this. The expenses of last
year’s program and of the several preceding
years amounted to very near one thousand
‘dollars a year, which meant eight or ten
dollars out. of the pocket of each individual
man, The main expense, that of decorating
F m for the Saturday night program,

. | Search and readin

morrow afternoon on the campus. will
amount to only a fraction of the cost of this
cabaret program, and will serve the purpose
equally as well. The cost of printing the
usual copy of “Sanity Rare” will also be done
away with. The twelve page issue of the
Davidsonian, due to the excellent work of
its business staff, will entirely pay for itself
without outside aid.

On the other hand, the new plan of hav-
ing this entertainment at a time other than
the holidays gives a much larger number of
the students, and others as well, a chance, to
enjoy it. It is true that several of the stu-
dents stayed during the holidays to enjoy
the festivities under:the old plan, but there
will be many more present under the new
plan and the affair will consequently be more
democratic. The added stress which is be-
ing placed on the Junior oratoricals, and the
Junior minstrel and reception also, make the
affair truly a Junior production.

The Junior class feels that it has made a
step forward in breaking away from the old
custom, The reasones cited above and sev-
eral others which could be given all go to
prove that the move is for the best inter-
ests of all concerned. Perhaps the new plan
is not perfect. It would be unnatural and
quite extraordinary if it were. However,
the new plan is certainly better than the old,
and, until a better one can be worked out,
let its critics either cease their criticism or
make it of such a nature that it will be con-
structive and conducive to a .better plan
rather than entirely destructive. :

Collegiate Comment

When M. Claudet, French ambassador,
visited The Citadel and termed it “The West
Point of the South,’ V. M. I. rose in right-
eous indignation that anyone should take
their own slogan away from them. “M.
Claudet will not be taken seriously in his
comparison,” becatise a statement made by
General Pershing several years ago, “indi-
cates without a doubt that V. M. I. is second
only to West Point,” according to The

‘Cadet.

In the P. C, Blue Stocking there appears a
list of nominations for student body officers
and the statement appears parenthetically
that they have been “approved by the fac-
ulty.” Just what they have to do to gain
the approval we don’t know but it must
make the profs feel more important.

At Penn they try to explain the origin of
the painted slickers. They say that the first
decorated rain-protector came by its honors
quite accidentally when a collegian return-
ing from a victorious football game was
slapped on the beak by another student
whose print of a muddy hand stood out
clearly on the slicker. The rest of the
mob saw him ahd adopted the fad.

_ Several of the college papers are denounc-
ing ludicrious misrepresentation. of college

‘life as shown in the movies. A petition ask-

ing for true dramatization of college life or
none at all was signed by the sophomore
class of Princeton.

The Emory Wheel states that according to
a letter recently received by the manager of
the Glee Club’s European tour, the “South’s
Sweetest Singers” will have luncheon and an
afternoon date with Lady Nancy Astor while
in Europe next summer.

The William and Mary Flat Hat is advo-
cating the proposition that no man_ be
pledged by a social fraternity until his soph-
omore year because “many men become dis-
satisfied and are later sorry for their de-
cisions, The fraternities would be better
able to determine what type of man they are
getting, and would be better able to deter-
mine his worth,” they opine.

One of the big features of the year at
Union University, Jackson, Tenn., is steam-
boat excursion up the Mississippi in which
about 1,200 students participate. This is to

take place on the last Saturday of this
month.

N. C. C. W. girls selected Governor Al
Smith’ over Secretary Hoover in a recent
straw vote conducted by The Carolinian.
The faculty preference went for Smith by a
two vote decision and the student vote gave

_the governor a lead of 214.

Something along, the line of Honors
Courses has been adopted at Randolph-
Macon in granting optional attendance upon
classes to those who have made high grades
and shown exceptional interest in their
work. In place of the conventional routine,

their work will be confined to intensive re-
ae

"Leaders Of °29 ~

BOB KELL

BOB COVINGTON

The above group shows the men whom the class
of ’29 has chosen to lead the class through its four
years- sojourn at Davidson. ‘These men have
proven thertselyes able and capable of handling
the affairs of the class as they should be handled,
and the class has passed three prosperous and
active years under their guidance. The presidency
of the class carries with it membership on the
Student Council, and the position is one of honor
and responsibility in every respect. Each of the
above four men was recently elected to member-
ship in Omicron Delta Kappa, and each of them
have attained sticcess in some special: phase or
phases of campus life.

The first president of the class, in 1925-26, was
Bob Covington. Bob is from Raeford, N. C., and
has been prominent in campus affairs since his en-
trance as a freshman. He was a member of the
freshman football team and has been a member of
the varsity squad for two years. In his first year
he was a member of the baseball squad. Bob’s main
activity, however, has been in the way of. literary
work, leading up to his election to the editorship of
the Quips and Cranks during the recent student
body elections. Bob has been active in Y. M. C.
A. work and has recently been appointed on the
new cabinet to take charge of the Vocatinoal Guid-
ance part of the Y work. He has also been a
contributor to the Chameleon and to other cam-
pus publications,

Bob Kell, from Pascagoula, Miss., was chosen to
lead the class during its second year, and his year
at the head of the class proved to be one of ac-
tivity and accomplishment for the class.. Bob has
been especially active in campus activities as well
as in his class work. His popularity is shown by
his recent election to the presidency of the stu-
dent body, the highest honor which the students
can bestow on a fellow student. His part in the
athletic life of the campus has also been prom-
inent. He has played football each of his three
years Kere, and promises to be one of the main-

MAC KING MONROE GILMOUR
stays of the team next year. He has also been
one of the large scorers on the Wildcat track team.
He can be counted on for several points in each
meet and is usually among those who carry off
first honors. Bob has also been prominent in the
field of forensic work. He is a varsity debater
and a speaker of no mean ability. He has been a
valuable and consistent Y worker, has done much
work with the boys of the town, and is a mem-
ber of the new Y cabinet. The members of the
student body are looking forward to a prosperous
year under his leadership.

Mac King has been at the head of the class
for the past year, one of the busiest years the
class has spent. Mac is from Bristol, Va.-Tenn.,
and has set a high standard for those from his
part of the country while here. He has been a
member of the varsity football squad for two years
and was .a member of the freshman.team during
his freshman year. Mac has been a leader in
Literary Society and Y,.work. He was recently
elected to membership in Omicron Delta Kappa
and also to the Student Council for next year. He
is prominent in R. O. T. C. work and is a member
of the Glee Club. Mac has also been a member of
the Court of Control and is prominent in other
campus Activities.

The fourth president of ’29 is also a prominent
man on the campus. Monroe T. Gilmore, of Wil-
mington, N. C., was elected to lead the class
through its senior year at a recent meeting. Mon-
roe has been prominent in several lines of ac-
tivity while at Davidson. He has worked for
three years on the Annual, was a member of the
varsity basketball squad, and has taken an active
part in class work for three years. He has also
been prominent in Y work and has been chosen
to fill a position on the new Y cabinet. He was
elected to membership in Omicron Delta Kappa at
its recent election. As the student body is look-
ing forward to a prosperous year under Bob Kell,
so the class of ’29 is looking forward to a pros-
perous year under the leadership of Monroe.

Junior Talent

LINES TO A CAPTOR
By the hair that shames the sheen of gold,
By the lips that tempt with their carmine hue,
By the eyes that hold me a serf for life,
I charge you hear my confession true.

Your beauty’s a net in whose toils of gold,
My soul is advertently ensnared,

A willing captive in heart and soul,

Ah, glorious fate—if you only caged.

Yet you have no tear for my hapless plight,

The heart that’s within you has turned to stone.
Won't you cool my brow with one kindly look?
Can I live on when my hope is gone?

Still I with the grief of a bootless hope,

Must yearn and strive for the mark I’ve set,
For deep in my soul there’s a doleful shame—
Presumptious I am that I cumber your net.

J.R.C.

LOVE AS IS
Now, the cave-man in courting his lady fair,
Used methods which we of to-day would call rude.
With a hand on his club, and a hand in her hair,
With passion and amor he forcefully wooed.
But really, was that so remarkably crude?

And the knight-errant, clad in his glittering mail,

Did battle full nobly and shed his red blood,

And he conquered in love where a modern would
fail—

But why not? I think htat he certainly should.

Indeed, I should try that if only I could!

That was all very well,but in time such as these,
With Romance and Chivalry dying in men,

No longer a club or a lance I may seize,

So I woo my fair lady with Waterman Pen—
Yes, I make all my love with a pen!

" W. B. M.

QUESTION

I questioned Science how. this life began,

And what should be the final end of all :

How born and how composed this whirling ball,
And what made up the glorious whole of Man.

“To which reply came as a hollow roar:
“A blind, brute destiny works' out its will
_ On Vital dust that quivers—and is still;
There all begins and ends, and nothing more.

“As rgolten metal shapes the dumb machine,
So from dead earth are molded beast and man,
Created by main force, no trace of plan,

Built by caprice of fate, all unforseen.

“There is no afterworld of bliss or shame;
Man’s birth-is but to energize the clay;
In death the energy is passed away,

From matter to the void from whence it came.”

The voice was mute; a shadow seemed to fall
Across my soul, that could not understand
How men who see a universe unplanned
Profess to find in Science all in all!
Frank Hall.

ANOTHER CONFESSION

Long in silent admiration
I have watched you on the sly,
And my heart in wild upheaval,
Bounds my chest when you are nigh.
For you're fair and sweet and tender,
And I’ll get you if I can,
But I’m torn with stern misgivings,
For I am no “ladies’ man.”

How my heart grows faint within me,
As I see you there beset,
By the polished, blase legions
Of the cultured younger set.
Could I talk so smoothly, blandly,
As those idle young men can,
I might dare to try to take you,
But I am no “ladies’ man.”

Other men may feel your presence,
See your beauty—hear your voice,

And fé1 not the least embarrassed,
But for me there is no choice.

Just the knowledge of your nearness,
Just the pressure of your hand,

Makes me red, confused and speechless,

For I am no “‘adies’ man.”

So it is—in halting verses
I am trying here to show
My affection, unavowed yet,
But you've sensed it, dear, I know.
I have one last hope to cling to,
I'll believe it while I can.
Could it be, by any chance, dear,
You don’t want a “ladies’ man.”

| J. R. Covington.
