THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 12, 1928

RIFLE TEAM SOON TO BEGIN
FIRING IN SOUTHERN MATCH

The third markmanship match of the year,
in which all the R. O. T. C. units of the
Fourth Corps Area will contest, will be fired
by the rifle team during the entire month of
February. The match is to be fired in four
stages, one stage each week. During the
opening week the first stage will be fired
from the sitting and prone positions. The
second stage is fired from the kneeling and
prone positions, the third from standing and
prone, and during the last week the fourth
stage will be fired from prone and prone.

Each member 6f the team, which consists
of 15 men of the R. O. T. C. unit, will fire
10 shots from each position of each stage,
making 20 rounds for each stage; 80 for the
match, The 15 men having fired, the scores
of the 10 high men will be sent to headquar-
ters as the final record. The team thus scor-
ing the highest number of points will be re-
warded with the trophy which is offered by
the headquarters of the Fourth Corps Area.

The men who will fire in the match are
J. S. Gudger, Shelby Vance, C. W. Taylor,
W. M. Long, E. D. Lennon, W. G. Mc-
Gavock, R. D. Russell, J. E. Bradley, S. Y.
Brown, W. B. Yancey, F. G. Epes, Jeff
Garrison, Julian Lake, C. P. Greyer, A. G.
Randolph.

Two matches have been fired previously
during the year. The Scabbard and Blade
match for the members of the unit was won
by Shelby Vance., A match was also held
with Statesville, which was won by Freeze
and Wilson. The advanced course men won
the trophy for the Fourth Corps Areat dur-
ing the summer work at Camp McClellan.

Mr. James Holmes Carson, ’13, will be
married to Miss Charlotte Milstead, of
Charlotte, in February. The bride-elect,
daughter of Mrs. Andrew Tammill Mil-
stead, is one of Charlotte’s most beautiful
and popular girls. The bridegroom,* who
is engaged in the insurance business, is
one of the most prominent and popular of
Charlotte’s young business men.

Out of the 932 London policemen acci-
dentally injured while on duty during the
year, 115 were bitten by dogs.

Ministerial Band
~ Elects President

The Ministerial Band held a brief meet-
ing Sunday afternoon at 2:30, in Shearer
Hall, for the purpose of electing officers for
the coming semester. Officers in this band
are elected semi-annually.

The meeting was opened by a few songs,
after which Messrs. McClure and Norfleet
led in prayer. Following this was a respon-
sive reading, and there being no special busi-
ness before the band, the election of officers
followed. The results of the eee were
as follows:

President, Paul Thrower; vice-president,
Tom Hill; secretary and treasurer, Alex.
Warren.

These men are all capable and efficient,
as well as being popular with the other mem-
bers of the band, and with this leadership
and good co-operation, the Ministerial Band
is eagerly looking forward to next semester’s
work, A good crowd of about 30 men at-
tended this first meeting of the new year,
which makes the prospects look all the more
encouraging.

Vance Wins Trophy
For Marksmanship

Shelby Vance, of Crossnore ,has been
awarded the trophy offered by the Scabbard
and Blade military fraternity to the David-
son student turning in the highest score in
an open rifle match just concluded here.
Vance finished the match with a score of
188 points out of a possible 200, which is
said to be one of the highest score ever
turned in at Davidson.

E. D. Lennon, of Lumberton, was second,
and P. J. Garrison, of Covington, Ga., was
third. Firing was done on the local indoor
range at 50 feet, using the latest type of
graduated targets recommended by the Na-
tional Rifle Association. Sixteen students
participated in the match.

A Complete Line of Drugs
and Sundries |

White Drug Co.

SEMI-ANNUAL
SALE

‘ IS NOW ON

SOCIETY BRAND

You can buy a
$40 Suit or Overcoat at . .

$50 Suit or Overcoat at . .
$60 Suit or Overcoat at . .

This is a Tate-Brown Co. Sale, the meickandise
the best in America and of course the reductions
are genuine.

ate- Brown Co.

Cresslocte. N.C.

4.

FRUHAUF BROS.

SUITS AND OVERCOATS

LONDONTOWN

$30.
$37.50
$45.

Student Volenteers in [Davidson Student

Alan Frew and Glenn Fry Represent | |
Davidson

An announcement of much interest to stu-
| dente of Davidson is that concerning the
marriage of Miss Ruth Hoyle to W. A.

Detroit, Michigan, was the scene of the Cathey, of Davidson.

tenth quadrennial International Convention | This marriage, which was to have been
of the Student Volunteer Movement. It was | kept a secret until after Cathey’s graduation,
held in the newly constructed Masonic Tem- | |was solemnized in the First’ Presbyterian
ple at Detroit and lasted from December 28th , Church of Salisbury, on November 28th.
to January 2nd. Approximately 4,500 or | Rev. R. E. Love, the pastor of that church,
5,000 delegates were present. The assembly | and a cousin of the bride, conducted the cere-
consisted of college students (both boys and mony.

girls), student pastors, ministers, mission- | Miss Hoyle, who is at present a member
aries, and “Y” secretaries. . | of the faculty of the Cornelius High School,
The purpose of this convention was to | is a recent graduate of Greensboro College
gather students and speakérs from around | for Women.

the world to discuss the work and purpose
of foreign missions. ~"

The convention was well organized. The |
delegates were divided into discussion groups |
and sectional groups and the main sessions |
were held in the auditorium. The progran: | have many friends.
ran from 9:00 o'clock in the morning until |
12:30, from 2:30 in the afternoon to 5 :00 | thor, | is ‘the president of the World’s Al-
o'clock, and from 7:30 in the evening until liance of Young Men’s Christian Associa- |
10:30. The morning and night sessions | tions,

popular member of the Senior class of the
| school. While no definite announcement has

will make their home here, where the two}

afternoon.

Richard Roberts, Dr. Henry TT; Hodgkin, | Duke, N. C. State, University of North
Dr. Francis Wei, Dr. John R. Mott, Robeft | Carolina, Queens, Winthrop, Agnes Scott,
E. Speer, Mordecai, Johnson, and Miss Mar- | and others are among our associate colleges
garet Crutchfield.
known writer in England, the United States | vidson was represented by Allan Frew. |
and Canada. He is now the pastor of the Glenn Fry also attended part of the con-
United Church at Toronto. Dr. Wei is the | vention as the president of the North Caro-
president of the Central China Christian | lina Union of the Student Volunteer Move- |
University, and Dr. Mott, :a well-known au- | ment.

International Assembly’ Marries ries Teacher

Cathey, whose home is in Davidson, is a

| yet been made, it is thought that the couple |

Robert E. Speer, who is the moder- |
were held in the main auditorium, and the! ator of the Presbyterian ‘Church of the |
sectional and discussion groups met in the | United States, is now a pastor in New York, |
| while Miss Crutchfield is the traveling sec- |
Among the speakers and, jeaders’ were Dr. | | retary of the Student Volunteer Movement. |

Dr. Roberts is a well- | who were represented at the convention. Da- |

‘Wildcats Prime 4
For Oak Ridge Five

The Davidson Fresh reel baaketeers will play
their first game of the season against the
strong Oak Ridge team Saturday night at
8:00 o'clock.

The game will be played at Davidson, and,
although the strength of the fresh team is
not yet proven, a good, fast game from start
to finish is expected.

Extra long practice sessions and several
scrimthages with the varsity have been held
recently to get the team in trim for the
game. Most of Coach Mattox’s time is be-
ing spent developing an offense. This will
be the only game played until hd mid-year
examinations.

The probable line-up for Davidson will
be: Forwards, McCall and nd_Rusk ; center,
Wilson; guards, Proctor and Goodson.

|
|
m

Lucky Afterthought

{

Mrs. Peck—“We have been married 20
| years today, John.”

John (with a sigh)—“Yes, for 20 years
| we have fought——”

Mrs. Peck (scowling)—‘*What?”

John (quickly)—“Life’s battles togeth-

| er, Maria.”—Pathfinder.

Seventeen years ago a number of beet
| seeds were stored away by a Danish seed-
ltesting station. Each year some have
'been withdrawn for experimental pur-~
poses. Tests proved that eighty-five per
‘cent of germination took place in -the
| second year and twenty-four per cent in
the seventeenth year or dormancy. Seeds
of white clover germinated after a lapse

| of twenty-five years.

seller

I DON’T doubt it, nor do I wonder why. Just
‘open a tidy red tin and get that full fragrance
of Nature’s noblest gift to pipe-smokers. Then
tuck a load in the business-end of your old
jimmy-pipe.

Now you’ve got it—that taste—that Lead-
me-to-it, Gee-how-I-like-it taste! Cool as a
condition. Sweet as making it up. Mellow
and satisfying. Try this mild, long-burning
tobacco, Fellows. I know you'll like it.

_ PRINGE ALBERT

—the national joy smoke!

Puc a T |
Reynolds nT

They say P-A.
is the worlds largest

You can pay ‘more
but pai can’t get

in satisfaction,

