THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 10, 1928

SOC

IAL

Harem Of Thomas

“ SCABBARD AND BLADE PARTY lege. The program was presented by the

“M” Company of the Fifth Regiment, of
the Scabbard and Blade military fraternity,
held its meeting Monday night, May 7th, in
the form of a-social entertainment for the
members of the wives of members of the
staff of the R. O. T. C. department of the
college. At various times during the year
Mrs. Daugherty, Mrs. Elkin and Mrs. Otto
have graciously entertained the members and
this affair took the place of a return social.
By way of entertainment, a mock initiation
was given by the members. Delicious re-
freshments were served and as favors to the
‘ladies, attractive miniature swords were
given with the Scabbard and Blade insignia
mounted upon the scabbards. The affair was
held at the Phi Gamma Delta House and
marked the high spot of Scabbard and Blade
social life of the year,

PHI GAM BANQUET

Delta Kappa chaptér of Phi Gamma Delta
fraternity held its annual banquet Saturday
night, May Sth, at the Maxwell Chambers
Hotel. The dining room of the Hotel was
made attractive for the occasion by means
of .shaded lights, and added potted plants.
The table was decorated iff the fraternity
color, royal purple. Covers were laid for 65
guests, for besides the local chapter many
alumni were present: A six-course dinner
®was served and at various times during the
evening short speeches were made by the
guests and the student members. Dr. T. W.
Lingle acted as toastmaster.

N. C. C. W. DANSANT

It was noted that quite a number of: Da-
vidson boys who were: in Greensboro for
the past week-end attending the state track
meet were present at N. C. C. W. Saturday
evening at a dance drama given by the col-

| Rhythm class of the scfool and forms a
climax to their year’s work. Various forms
of the terpichorean art were presented to the
audience. Beside a large number of people
from Greensboro and visiting people, many
girls from the college itself were in the au-
dience.

Kappa, Alpha chapter of Theta Upsilon
Omega held a formal banquet on May
5th at Efird’s dining hall, Charlotte.
O’Key Allison, ’23, master of the alumni
chapter, acted as toastmaster.

Features of the banquet especially in-
teresting were the fraternity and college
songs, ‘the main address of the evening

dress of the retiring master, J. W. ,Reid,
and the short talks by the new officers.
At the opening of the banquet, one of
the fraternity songs composed by R. S.
Lowrance, ’28 was sung. This was fol-
lowed by a toast to the absent brothers.
The new master of the chapter, W. E.
Phifer, welcomed the alumni, W. E.
Milton, ’26, replied for the alumni! Each
of the new officers then made a short
talk, discussing somewhat the-plans for
the new year.
Dr. MeClung, of Charlotte, a graduate
of Westminster, was the guest of honor.
The closing song, “College Ties,” was
most impressive, especially to. the four
men who graduate this year.

de

QUEEN’S JUNIOR PROM

The Junior Class of Queens. College was
hostess to the Senior Class and to their
invited guests at the annual Junior Prom
on Friday evening, May 4. The reception
was held on the West Lawn at the college
and. the campus was made beautiful for
the occasion by strings of garden lanterns

CHARLOTTE
KNOXVILLE

built appearance.

more?

S& W Cuteverias

are catering to you

(ATLANTA Soon)

Cus that $8 is just the right price
that the thoughtful man wants
to pay for a shoe today. ;
At this price the Bates Eight gives
_ him finest materials, masterly work-
manship, smart models and a custom

Why pay more—without getting

Come in and let us explain the fea-
tures of the Bates Eight. Perfect fit-
ting is assured with our new Auto-
matic Foot Measuring Machine.

Featured cachusively te our Shoe Depastusent

_EFIRD'S

and potted lawn plants. Punch was served

ASHEVILLE
RALEIGH

by J. M. Appleby, ’26, the farewell ad-

A third wildcat made her debut in the Da-
vidson lair when Ben Withers, of Charlotte,

class of ’29 at Junior Oratoricals. With the
cat came a well constructed cage, painted
black and trimmed in red.

Min is now no longer certain of the un-
stinted affection of Tom. With the advent
of this second feminine wildcat the eternal
triangle enters fields other than human. To
the modiste shop goes Min to have her
natural beauties brightened up, but the new
belle says she will not resort to artificial
means of winning the attention of the hand-
sone Tom, but will depend entirely upon her
captivating fierceness. Min is the home-lov-
ing, home-making, vine-clinging type. But
the new mistress has all the characteristics
of the modern wild flapper and will take
Tom by storm if he doesn’t, keep a level
head.

The new member of Thomas’ harem has
not been officially named. If the wildcats
increase as steadily in‘number as they’ have
been during the last twelve months the mas-
cot den will become quite thickly populated.
The first cat to take the place of Faithful
Felix, who passed into the great beyond last
summer, was obtained for the nominal sum
of thirty dollars through the efforts of Cheer
Leader McGee. ‘Fhe second to grace the
campus was sent from Georgia by Hansell
Watt, of the class of ’01, as a result of the
Florida game last fall.

Montreal, Can. {By New Student Service)
—Stephen Leacock, ‘better known as a hu-
morist than as professor of economics at
McGill University, was hardly joking when
he told the University of Pittsburgh students
that their Cathedral of Learning, or “high-
up” building,” as he. calls it, is all wrong.
“I should prefer the dream life and elm
trees of the old college campus to anything
the Cathedral of Learning might offer,” he
said. “Your campus will be rubber trees on
the fiftieth floor and the shaded lanes will
be elevator pits.

“T have realized that the world has chang-
ed since my youth. When I first heard of
the proposed design»for the Cathédral of
Learning I could hardly helieve that so
extraordinary a building would be put into

ideals and’those of the older generation. will
go the same path as prejudices and hates.
“But even up there on the fiftieth floor,”
Mr. Leacock admitted, “you will be doing
characteristic work. We can, like the White
Knight in. “Alice in Wonderland,” lear to
think upside down if we only know how.”

The most indifferent man in the world
is the one who signs “Moonbeam, Kiss
her for me.”

“Saw a woman on the street with one
side of her face entirely black.”
“Impossible.” ’
“O yes, the other side was too.”
pe eee eer

form today?”
“Yes, it was ripping.”

by members of the Sophmore Class in a
rustic summer house, attractively decor-
ated with vines and lanterns,

The main feature of the evening’s pro-
gram took place soon after the guests had
been received by the Faculty and con-
sisted of progressive dates. During the
dates music was furnished by the Queens
College Friskies. A delicious salad course
was served to the guests at the conclus-
ion of the evenings entertainment, ‘Dur-
ing the evening several dances were given
by members of the Sophmore Class.

A large number of Davidsonians were
guests at the affair. The Prom, occuring

at Queens. And because of the large
number of Davidson students usually pres-

ent, it has come to be a prominent social
évent at both colleges.

| FELLOWS!
mf You'll always find a well-
equipped U-Drive-It Ford

at the right price at

erson’s Filling Station

DAVIDSON, N.C. |

|

_ Increasing Rapidly

presented a feminine canine tempter to the |

“JOHN Q’S DOPE

(Continued from page 2)
crooks as a result of Mr. Sharkey’s reversal
of form.

It seems to us that Mr. Victor Aldridge,
Giant hold-out, has hung up a white flag.
“Jawn” McGraw has ordered the Hoosier
school teacher to Cincinnati for a little chat
concerning his pitching troubles. As Mr.
Alridge needs the Giants and the Giants need
Mr..Aldridge, we hope that a settlement can
be made and they will sign a truce for good.

Mr. Horace Greely once said, “Go west,
young man,” or something like that. The
young athletes of the Eastern baseball clubs
have followed his instructions to the letter
by migration to the Western cities. The only
trouble is that in about two weeks they will
become tired and return to the civilized East.
Thus Mr. Greely’s well-intended advice will
go on the rocks.

Mr. Hype Igo, of the New York World,
in a series of articles, says that Mr. William
Harrison Dempsey will fight again. Hurrah
for the ballyhoo stuff. Let ‘us hope that this
gentleman is right!

This summer the good old U. S. A. will
havea big time in the Olympic games unless
the rejuvenated Germany spoils everything
for her. Germany has given the Olympic
committee 200,000 marks for its use in the
Preparation for these Greek games. If
money means anything, they seem to be pret-
ty well bent on winning this year in Am-
sterdam,

Pete—“That is, er-ah, sir, I have been
going with your daughter five years.”
Father—“Well, what do you want, a
pension?”

Lake And Kirkland Selected
As. Student Store Managers.

New managers of the Student Store have
taken charge as all other newly elected and -
appointed officers of the student body. The
new managers for the next year are C. R.
Lake and L. D. Kirkland, both of whom are
rising Seniors. C. R. Lake is the buying or
supervising manager, and L. D. Kirkland is
the bookkeeping manager. These new man-
agers took charge on the first of May,. re-
lieving the old managers, who were J. L.
MeGee and J. R. McCravey, Jr.

Lake is. from Greenville, Miss., and has
been prominent on the campus since entering.
He belongs to the Phi Gamma Delta social
fraternity and is very popular on the cam-
pus. I, D. Kirkland is from Durham, N. C.
He belongs to the Pi Kappa Alpha social
fraternity and has also been prominent. in
campus affairs.

The management of the Student Store is in
the hands of a faculty committee which is
made up of several members of the faculty
and the two retiring business managers of
the store. Any rising Senior may apply for
the position by giving his application to the
business manager, who in turn will submit
it to the committee which decides on the
men for the positions. Lake and Kirkland
were chosen out of a number of men who
applied for the position.

Older—“I just had my face lifted.” .
Younger—“Nobody would steal such a
thing as that.” KY

“TI just didn’t get the brakes,” said the
flivver as it rolled down the hill and
draped itself over a stone wall.

We are told that love is blind,
But we know ’tis true, __

That love can see upon single chair,
Sufficient room for two.

actual effect. Now I begin to think that my}.

“Did you notice Booth in his new uni- |~

annually, is the high light of social life |

Piping Rock is

G2. 206 a
NewPiping Rocks
- An Exceptionally Smart
Spring Suit Fabric
Can you visualize a suit of a hard, stiff fabric
. about as uncomfortable as armor
eae the 5 eta There’s noth-
ing more comfortable.
more easily ... tailor better ... or look more

luxurious. You'll like the new and wonder-
ful ideas in patterns and colors for spring.

Piping Rock Suits
Exclusive With

| Sociely Brand

Tate-Brown Co.

IT’S THE CUT OF YOUR CLOTHES THAT COUNTS

plate?
othing could drape

Mother's Day
—— May 13th

Candies and Flowers

