September 27, 1928.

A

The First Game of the Season

On Saturday afternoon the students,
alumni, guests and friends of Davidson
gathered to witness the clash that marked
the begirining of the 1928 football season.

The scene was an animated one and pre-
sented many splotches of color. On the
field the flaming red jersies of the ’Cats
moved in bold outline to the turf beneath.
On the grandstand the red caps of the
new men met the eye as they rose up and
down during the game. Among the spec-
tators could be seen the flashing attire of
the young lady visitors as they cheered
the participants on the field. There was
a general buzz of conversation over the
crowd which at times of tense excitement
rose to frenzied roars. There was laugh-
ter. There was applause. The animated
notes of the band were tuned to the spirit
of the team. The grandstand stood to a
man and sang the college song and as the
team neared the goal line threw up its
hands in frantie anticipation. Satisfied,
it resumed its hum.

It was a good game, everybody was
there, and Davidson enjoyed herself as a
social unit.

Visiting Professors
On walking down the streets of the

town last Sunday night one ‘might have
noted that the Davidson student body is
continuing the custom among Davidson
men of the past in visiting the professors
in their homes. How ancient this custom
may be might be found by looking up the
history of the college of many years ago.
That, however, is of little importance.
The interesting fact which remains and
will continue.to foster ts existence is that
it has created a feeling of good will and
fellowship between faculty and student.
Long after we have graduated and we
have no acquaintances in the student body
it will be to our old professors to whom
we turn when we come back to the
campus.

Kappa Sigma Sponsors
House Party

The young ladies attending the Guil-
ford-Davidson football game as guests of
the Kappa Sigma Social Fraternity were
as follows:

Misses Dot Hendon, Michaux Beam,
Mary Emma Nicols, Evelyn Jackson,
Asheville; Misses Margaret Smith, Em-
ma. Colrane,t Ida Allison, Charlotte;
Misses Frances Thompson, Sara Kate Or-
mand, Lexington; Miss Anne Dayvault,
Concord; Miss Anne Carter Marsh, High
Point; Miss Mary Mackay Huff, Lan-
caster, S. C.

Alumni and friends attending the game
were as follows:

John C. Bernhardt, '27; W. McK.
Black; Sam Maloy Davis; “Doc” Lafar;

Mr. and Mrs. O, Z. Bethea; Mr. and Mrs.:
J. E. MacQueen, Charlotte ; “Dodo” Mc-:

Dowd, Wofford; Johnny Johnson, Uni-
versity of Kentucky; Bill Timberlake,
Statesville; Robert Ball Erkman, Mount
Mourne; Owen Geer, Derita.

S. A. E.’s Entertain

Situated in their new chapter house, the
S. A. E, fraternity was host to a number
of young ladies over the week-end. Sat-
urday night was a time for visiting, boys
dropping in from the neighboring chapter
houses. Punch and sandwiches were
served, Prof. and Mrs. Earnest A. Beat-
ty were the chaperones. Guests for the
week-end included:

Miss Regina Horn, Mocksville; Miss
Alberta Thomas, Rock Hill; Miss Zora
Foy, Reidsville; Miss Lib Patterson,
Charlotte; Miss Julia Reid Rosborough,
Jacksonville; Miss Lib Haynes, Winston-
Salem; Miss Lillian Carmichale, Miss
Mary Louise Wodsworth, Charlotte; Miss
Tootsie McNair, Miss Mary Lou Mc-

Yusfeezysl*

Kinnon, Hartsville; Misses Frances and
Ann Weeks, Hendersonville.

| Theta Upsilon Omega Guests

On the guest list: for the week-end
were:

Misses Evelyn Josephs, Becky McGar-
rity, Evelyn Wagner, Julia Josephs, Ev-
elyn Beavers, Ellen Hawkins, Virginia
Foil, Alice Fisher, Alice Jane Fleagle,
Mary Long, Louise Garibaldi.

Delta Theta Chi Has Week-End
Guests

The young ladies appearing at the foot-
ball game on Saturday afternoon and who
remained for the week-end were:

Miss Elizabeth Hendon, Asheville;
Misses Elizabeth Henderson and Eliza-
beth Clark, Charlotte; Misses Mary Mc-
Ninch, Alice Armsfield, Emily Hunt, Nida
DePass, Mary Grattoan Graham, Queens;
Miss Mary Jane Wharton, N. C. C. W.;
Miss Martha Grooner, Raleigh; Miss
Olive Singhlow, Shelby.

FIRST MEETINGS HELD
BY LITERARY SOCIETIES

Both Literary Societies started the year
with outside speakers. The Philanthropic
Society heard Dr. Foreman, one of the
“Alumni” of the society, and Camper
O'Neal, “Y" secretary and president of
the society last year. Drs. Erwin and
Fleagle spoke before the Eumenean So-
ciety.

The. Philanthropic Society had one of
the largest gatherings that has attended
a society meeting in several years, 51 be-
ing present to hear Dr. Foreman speak
on “Lterary Societies, Past and Present.”
He pointed out that in the past few years
the interest has been waning in the socie-
ties. but that the societies have taken over
more of a pure literary flavor, losing much
of the social functions that were a fea-
ture of the past. O'Neal spoke especially
to the Freshmen, urging them to become
| members of a society and pointing out the
| advantages that would accrue from it.

Speaking before the Eumenean Society,
both Drs. Erwin and Fleagle pointed out
the benefits of the literary organizations.
Dr. Fleagle laid special stress on the study
of parliamentary law.

The programs for tonight will include
besides the regular program, the initiation
of new members, to be followed by a
feed.

The officets’ of the Eumenean Society
are; W. L. Dumas, president; R. M.
Christian, vice-president; A. R. Bird, sec-
retary; T. E. Hill, treasurer, and R. Gra-
ham, critic. The officers of the Philan-
thropic Society are: Frank Hall, presi-

‘| dent; J. B. Knox, vice-president; C. E.

Kreamer, secretary; C. H. DuBose, treas-
urer, and R. C. Grady, critic.
erary societies meet every Thursday night
and the meetings are open to any who
wish to attend whether they are members
of the society or not.

ASSISTANT CHEER LEADER

_ (Continued from page 1)
the principles, and leaving much to their

native ability. Thus the election of these
two men was upon a basis of ability dis-
played before the student body.

Nelson Myers, varsity cheer leader, has
shown every evidence of being able to
successfully lead the Wildcat cheering
this year. Undér his tutelage the two
assistants will no doubt develop into
capable cheer leaders. These two assist=
ants will be voted upon by the student
body, to see who will be the cheer leader
for the year 1929-1930. This election will
come in the spring during the regular
spring elections, after the men have had a
better chance to show their development
and ability.

The lit- |.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Davidson Will Again
Get Sullivan Award

Award. Last Year Given to Miss
Shaw and Charles McRae

Of interest to the student body are the
provisions of the Sullivan Award which
will be given to some student and some
one connected with the college practically
}every year. This award will be given at
| commencement to the Senior who exhibits
the most deep spiritual life during his col-
lege career, He shall not be selected par-
ticularly on grounds of scholarly attain-
ment or leadership, but solely on spiritual
leadership and depth.

At the last commencement of the col-
lege the award was first given at David-
son College to Charles McRae, of the
Senior class, and to Miss Cornelia Shaw,
the librarian of the college since 1906.
Charles McRae was a Phi Beta Kappa
and O. D. K. man his Senior year, presi-
dent of the Y. M. C. A,, and a leader in
all spiritual activities on the campus. Miss
Cornelia Shaw has served faithfully in
the capacity of college librarian for 22
years, part of which time she was libra-
rian of the college.

The Algernon Sidney Sullivan Award
was made available to the college last
year. It is awarded to many of the out-
standing schools in the country, among
which are William and Mary, University
of Alabama, University of South Caro-
lina, University of Virginia, and Wash-
ington and Lee.

“y” LEADERS

(Continued from page 1)
one another, and take a stand for Jesus

Christ,”” he concluded.

Camper O'Neal took the theme of his
talk from the 19th chapter of Matthew,
which is the story of the young man that
went to Christ to question Him about His
life. The young man had great riches

but he felt that something was lacking.
Jesus told him to go and sell his’ goods,
give them to the poor, and follow Him
The young mah went away sorrowing. :

In Christ's army there are no flags fly-
ing, bands playing, and the other things
that went with the troops in the last war.
It is a hard thing to do to follow Him.
One is not-even called a slacker if he
fails to join when given the opportunity.
It is hard to do even here at Davidson.

To be able to follow Him one must
have love for Christ. That alone will
make the pathway easy. Quickly one for-
gets haw hard it is to serve Him. And
without love we cannot give service to
Christ.

Through service, however, it is easy to
learn to love Jesus and when we have re-
ceived His all-powerful blessing we will
never leave Him.

“Men, open up your hearts and let
Jesus Christ in,” appealed O'Neal in
closing his talk to the students.

JOHNSON PROCURES

- (Continued from page 1)
While at school Johnson showed him-

self to be a good student, especially in the
languages, as he averaged around 95 in
them during his entire four years. He
was the moving spirit in organizing the
Classical club, which has since become a
national, Eta Sigma Phi.

Johnson will teach Latin in the Wood-
bury Forest preparatory school, at
Orange, Va., this year, and will also as-
sist in coaching baseball.

At Davidson the position of cheer lead-
er is held worthy of honor, so much that
the Athletic Council, several years ago,
decided to award a minor letter to the
varsity cheer leader during his Senior
year. This position also takes much time
and work, for it is upon the cheer leader
that the burden of caring for the wildcat
falls, the problem of transportation of

ball game, and the keeping up of the pep
at all times.

ACTIVITIES SCHEDULE

(Adopted by Honorary Fraternity Council)

Weeks beginning September 24, October 8, 15, November 5, 19, December 3,
17, January 14, 28, February 11, 25, March 11, 25, April 8, 22, May 6.

MONDAY TUESDAY WED. THUR. FRIDAY
7:00 Glee Club Glee Club Phi. and Eu. Societies |Glee Club
7:30 Court of Sigma Pi Sigma Scabbard and
Control Blade
9:00 O. D. K. Delta Pi Kappa Ela Sigma Phi Gamma SigmaEpsilon
ON ALTERNATE WEEKS
7:00 Glee Club Glee Club Phi,and_Eu. Societies|I. R. C.
7:30 Court of Biology Club
Control \
9:00 O. PA. Sigma Upsilon A. P. E.

and lived a clean, rigid, and moral life,

the student body to the scene of a foot-|

REGISTRATION FALLS
BELOW LAST YEAR'S

With registration of the students still
incomplete it appears as if the total regis-
tration would fall below the registration
of last year. At the last count there were
only 596 students on the roll of Davidson
College. A few late arrivals have added
to this total until it is now around 615.
Several students who were expected to be
here have had to drop out on account of
financial or studious difficulties.

It will be noticed that there are more
Seniors registered than thefe are Juniors,
there being 118 Seniors registered to 114
for the Juniors. The Sophomore class
has 134 men in it and the Freshman class
has 226 men. This is a smaller Fresh
class than was expected, several dropping
out at the last moment. In addition to
the regular students there are four spe-
cial women students, and one man is en-
rolled for further study for his M.A,
degree.

Page Three

DAVIDSON MAN WINS
IN SPANISH CONTEST

It has just been learned here that J. L.
Rice, of Salisbury, member of the Senior
class of Davidson College, has been judg-
ed the winner of a national Spanish essay
contest. He was notified last May that
his paper was selected as the best in the
second region, which comprised 12 states,
the District of Columbia and Porto Rico.
Mr. Rice was awarded the national prize
this summer, but his final success was not
known at Davidson until he was queried
today.

Winning this high honor is a distinct
tribute to Mr. Rice, for several thousand
college students participated, the contest
being open to every college student in the
United States ‘and its possessions. The
final test came when his paper and five

J. G. Johnson, review editor. R. M. Clif-
ton, H. S. Goodwin, R. O. Flinn, and one
or two others will serve as assistant lit-
erary editors. The business staff is com-

CHAM WILL COME OUT

(Continued from page 1)
be on October 15. It is the intention of

the editorial and business staffs.to put out
as many as five issues this year, instead of
the usual two or three as has been the
custom for the past two years. Two or
possibly three issues will be off the press
before the Christmas holidays, with the
remaining two or three to follow in the
second semester.

It is believed by many campus critics
that the Chameleon will be better this
year than it has been for quite a few
years, basing their observations upon the
staff, which is as follows: Browne Mc-
Queen, editor-in-chief; R, A. Boggess,
short story editor; Frank Hall, poetry
editor ; J. R. Covington, essay editor; and

de
*

“U-Push ’Em Anywhere
We'll See They Get There”

Cars to Rent
Special Rates for Long Trips

HENDERSON AUTO CO.
DAVIDSON, N.C. ™

posed of H. A. Knox, business manager;
C,. H. DuBose and C, H. Pettus, assistant
business managers; W. R. Hill, circula-
tion manager, and V. A. Milton, subscrip-
tion manager,

GLEE CLUB PLANS
(Continued from page 1)
O. T. C. Band. This association will have

complete charge of the organizations mak-
ing it up and accurate books wil be kept
which will be audited by the college treas-
urer at the close of each college year. The
need of such an organization has been
felt for some time and the forming of
it is a great step forward for it means
the same thing to the musical life of the
campus that the Athletic Association
means to the athletic life. The executive
committee of this Glee Club Association
is as follows: Paul Fry, president;
Charlie Albright, Sid Abernathy, A. J.
Thompson and Charlie Orr.

others from as many different regions
were sent to the national committee for
final choice.

This contest was conducted under the
auspices of La Prensa, publication of
New York, and the American Association
of Teachers of Spanish. All competitors
had to submit their essays in Spanish,
and the minimum length was, 1,500 words.
The choice of subject was limited, for it
had to be selected from a group submitted
by the association. No individual could
be asked for assistance.

reasonable price.

PRINTING OF EVERY DESCRIPTION

Every man wants his stationery
to be distinctive, and we are prepared
to give you a most attractive job ata

Samples of printed stationery and
of printed and engraved personal‘
cards are on display in 20 Rumple.

Best rates on job work will be
quoted to campus organizatiofis.for
any kind of printing.

AUBREY BROWN, Representing
Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co.

CHARLOTTE, N.C.

STAY ON T

HE FAIRWAY;
STICK TO CAMELS

SoMEWHERE between your collar-bytton and the bottom of your plus-fours
there’s a smoke-spot—seeking “‘fill-fullment.” The vast majority of jobbies
who feel that in’ard hankerin’ have discovered what to do about it. ‘They
pull a cool cloud of joy away down into it—and slowly exhale fragrant
Camel smoke.

!

Tobacco science has produced in Camel a superb blend of the choicest

Turkish and Domestic tobaccos. Just revel once in the delicious, quivering

aroma of a cloud of Camel smoke. We'll bet a caddie to a left-handed
niblick you'll never get off that fairway!

O18 R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, Winston-Salem, N. C.
