Ae A ae A Re Bs aS

THE

v

ore

¥ ——

DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 2, 1928

UNCHARITABLE

Undergraduate indifference has led the
Princeton University student council to
recommend discontinuance of the present

- community chest plan for supporting stu-
dent enterprises on and off the campus.

At the same time letters have been sent to

parents, explaining the situation and ask-
ing them to meet the deficit. Princeton,
like other universities, adopted the chest
plan to protect the students from the
annual flock of drives on their finances.
However, the students have failed to
rally to the plan of lump giving, and the
old single drive plan once more is in

Davidson Resumes.
Martial Maneuvers

Due to the excellent drilling before
Major-General Davis on the fourth and
the extra drill on home-coming day, the
cadets of the Davidson corps of R. O. T.
C. have been enjoying a well earned rest.
The time formerly consumed with ex-
ecuting Port and Present Arms has been
taken up’ with refilling fountain pens.
But, with the opening of the second sem-
ester, active drill has been resumed.

The remaining months of the year wi'l
be taken up with the principles of Pla-
toon Close Order Drill and Outdoor Range

DAVIDSON WILL SPONSOR

(Continued from page 1)
track will be the object of considerable work,
and no effort will be spared to put every-
thing in tip-top shape.

The Davidson meet has come to be almost
an institution by now. It comes as a sort of
prelude to the state meet at Chapel Hill, and
consequently affords an excellent opportunity .

City Shows
‘Five Years Age || “Draw College

Draw College Boys
id Wildcat quintet gained a) ;
sii tat ul ad is vedk Attractions in Charlotte’s finest field of

flying start on the 1923 season by decisively | :

defeating Charlotte “Y” in two successive | amusement continue to draw students to

games and then“winning from Concord feature shows with attendants at the
" ?, : “ ,

“Y” and State by large margins. Broadway’s presentation of “The Jazz

eee nee | Singer” taking the lead. Some ninety Y be

Dr. J. M. Douglas, graduate manager | thousand people have seen Al Jolson in for the wa oF eee iss ‘ piney et Miah
has officially anounced that William Lee | this vitaphone presentation during tHe ta a. me ae HU OHMEE tote
Younger, now head coach of basketbatl| past five weeks and continued crowded Hen ee cit GUNS REO.
and baseball and assistant coach of foot-| houses are announced by the manage- sutts Havidion Saeelaey th. ab tte tigi a
ball at the Virginia Polytechuic Institute | ment. "SE Hips GeO BEDI LIA eiven the
kas accepted the ‘position of head coach| Harry Snodgrass, King of the Ivories.| young FEMARSHI SSVIHEN HERE Ak a.
at Davidson for the coming year. Coach} was a drawing card at the Carolina dur- Het pada Mle tiieseidet, Is Gove falling

order.

nn
Since 868

|work. Military Courtesy, Hygiene and
| First Aid will be studied during the class
|hour. Both officers and men are work-
_ing hard in preparation for the Govern-
!mental Inspection, which will probably
take place in April.

into shape.

On Thursday evening from 8 to 12

he Home uf Good Shues

We Have
A Cracker Jack
Shoe for

College Men
--- at only ---
$7.50
We would like

to show you them!

Gilmer-Moore Co.

Charlotte, N. C.

ee

Davidson is ony one of’ several units |
of the Reserve Officers’ Tra‘ning Camp: |
‘now organized over the entire country. |
It is estimated that there are now ap- |
proximately 209,500. graduates of these}
lunits, since the revision of the National |
Defense Act in 1920, The majority of
| thse men were eligible for eventual com- |
mission in the Officers’ Réserve Corps.

During the school year of 1926-27, there |
| were three hundred and twenty-two units |
in operation in two hundred and twenty-
ithree educational institutions. The total
enrollment of these units was 108,957; 70,- |
809 being in senior units and 38,138 in|
| junior units, At the close of the year|
there were 5,891 graduates. This was the}
j largest annual increment attained since
| he World War.
| Davidson is fortunate in being one of}
ithe colleges, selected by the government, |
| for this work. - Most of the students are |
| taking an interest in attaining the high-
Jest perfection in drill. The weekly con-

Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Rewh

and Goldsmith
oO. |

Myers Hardware and Sporting Gocds C

CHARLOTTFK,N C

MAYHEW ’S

CLEANERS AND DYERS

BUSINESS APPRECIATED SATISFACTION GUARANTEED

Students, Our Plant is at Yo r Service

E. N- LINKER, Owner
Phone £2.-J

DICK GREY, Representaative
Davidson, N. C.

NN mm em

Al |
AM

Poe

Dressing up that expanse be-
tween shoe-tops and trouser-
cuffs has been made easy by

Tate Brown Here, at this
store, you'll find an array of
their fashionavle hosiery to
please your tastes. Whether
they incline toward the con-
servative or the collegiate, we
can appease them—to your com-
fort, to your satisfaction.

Tate-Brown

Charlotte, N. C.

| Smith

son MacConnell was the scene of a unique
socia: affair. The uecasion of the narty
was Dr. MacConnei!’s birthday.
forty guests were received and many old-
fashioned games were enjoyed.

A special meeting of the freshmen class
was held in Shearer Hall for the purpose
of learning the song “Old Ship of Zion.
The proposition to learn the song was
presented bythe Court of Control.

The Junior class has made arrange-
ments to have a troupe of ten or twelve)
“colored songbirds” from the Johnson C. |
University. In addition the
many famous negro ballads the troupe
will bring musical instrumenis

we)

several

The Red Destroyer. has once

J. M. McConnell, The fire was discovered |
about. eleven o'clock gained much |
headway before the fire-fighters took a
hand, The alarm spread rapidly and quite
a number of students gathered to aid in;
the saving of the contents of the house |
and to endeavor to extinguish the blaze.
Davidson has recently been put on the

and

approved list of the universities and col-
leges of America. The American Asso-
ciation of Universities has two lists of
members, the first one containing only
universities, The second list is for col-
leges wh work and standing are ap-
proved by the association.’ This means
that a student with an A.B. from Da-
vidson will be accepted abroad and will
be admitted to the highest privileges of
any institution, This new distinction will
be of particulag benefit to Rhodes scholars

Younger reports September 1 to take up| ing the first of the week as he entertain- |
the work of whipping a formidable eleven | ed packed houses with his skilf~at. the

o'clock the home of Dr. and Mrs. J. Wil-|

About | legiate patronage on Saturday as_ wil!

/or seven attractions of varvine natures to

»| first of which was “The Barker,” present-
}ed last Saturday.
| be Will Rogers, Paderewski, and similar

with them which assures the audience of | College Glee Club's rendition of their pro-
a we'l rounded program of entertainment. , gram when they sing and play for the girls

‘at Queens.
again. ment is February 14th, when the Glee Club
knocked at the town gates, this time in and the two orchestras will render their
the partial destruction of the home of Dr, complete program.

| Cullum, to represent the Davidson Glee Club
|at the meeting of the National Inter-Col-

who go to Oxford,

this year as they never did before.
the team appreciates it.

Every basketball team must have its
nickname. We hereby christen the 1923
model of the Wildcat machine “The Fight-
ing Devils.” Live up to it, team.

Peace Oratorical

The preliminaries at Davidson College
for the Peace oratorical contest, which
is to be at Elon early in April, will be held
here on March 5. The following have
expressed their intentions of entering
these, tryouts: D, Miller, Allan Frew,
“Red” Beavers, Murray Christian, Reid
Graham, and W. W. Harrison. The win-
ner will represent Davidson at Elon in
the Peace oratorical contest, which is un-
‘der the auspices of the State Peace Asso-
ciation, of which Dr. Perish, of Guilford.
is chairman.

There will be about six colleges in the
state competing in this contest nad the
winner will receive a. first prize of $40
and the runner-up $25.

A coilege to enter this ccn:est. must
have at least three men in thei prelim-
inaries. The subject must either be
“Peace,” or some movement of world-
wide importance that fosters peace.

test between platoons has done much to
promote this zeal. Having won the Dis-

‘| tinguished Rating for the past two years,

Davidson is showing a splendid indication

that it will repeat in the current year.

Contest at Elon

The student body is backing their team|
And}

\
|
|
|

|

|
|
{
|
|

|
'

|

for their favorites, just as much as the high

h d d school delegations themselves.

; s PW Ss t-| .

saan at oe Rey, Stee ere Charlotte, Winston - Salem, Greensboro,
s well,

| Wilmington, Statesville, Salisbury. High
Point, and a large number of smaller schools
will be represented. The Davidson Fresh-
men will probably enter the competition un-
officially, as they did last year. This gives
the first-year men an opportunity to get some
real training for their regular schedule,
which follows on the heels of this high
school meet. Coach Tilson will have charge
of the meet in general, assisted by Coaches
Younger and Mattox and the varsity track
men.

The presentation of “Rose Marie,” prob-
ably the greatest musical comedy, at the
Auditorium will have its share. of co’-
Ziegfield’s Follies Tuesday following.

The Hornets Nest Post of the American
Legion is attempting to bring some six

Charlotte during the next few months, the

Among the others will

DAVIDSON DEBATERS

(Continued from page 1)
“Resolved, That the United States should
cease to protect by force of arms property
invested in foreign countries except in case
of actual’ warfare.” Powell and Dillard will
debate on the affirmative side in all of their
debates, but the ses that he ofr debaters

will take have not been definitely planned.

notables.

GLEE CLUB ON PROGRAM

(Continued from page 1)

The date set for this engage- According to an announcement by Henry

Powell, president of the Forensic Council,
the prospects look very good for Davidson.
After the winter debates are 6ver the council
hopes to plan something for the spring. The
Freshman debates are being worked on and
they will have the Fresh teams in fine shape
by Easter. No possible information can be
given out in regard to the spring plans, for
nothing is quite definite enough for publica-
tion at the present time. The oratorical con-
tests come in connection with the debates
and promise something to look forward to
in that line.

John Foster, the president of the club, will
go to Greenville, accompanied by Professor

legiate Glee Club contest. This meeting held
in Greenville is but the convention of the
Southern branch of this organization formed
two years ago for the purpose of fostering
and assisting the college glee club. The mect-
ing of this organization is to be held on Feb-
ruary 10th, It-will be remembered that at
an interstate contest, held recently at Dur-
ham, Duke University was adjudged as hav-
ing the best club in the state, nosing David-
son out of that position by only a small frac-
tion of a point. Therefore Foster will at-
tend the meeting in Greenville only in the
role of representative.

. rn

Aryorder of books has been sent to the
Associated Fress and will be put on sale
at the Y-reoms. Drop by and look them
over. Many worth while volumes wiil be
there, and you will have a wide range
from which to choose.

BELK BROTHERS CO.

A Sale of Over 1000 New White
BROADCLOTH SHIRTS

Collars Attached. Pretty Quality Broadcloth. All Sizes.
On Special Sale Now

$1.35 or 3 for $4.00

Come and See the NEW SPRING SUITS and HATS

BELK BROTHERS CO.

Davidson Theatr

THURSDAY

e.

February 2. “Gentlemen Prefer Blondes”
FRIDAY ; ;
February 3 “The Noose,” with Richard Barthelmess

, SATURDAY
February 4 A Good Western

MONDAY |AND TUESDEY
February 6, 7 ‘Old Ironsides”

WEDNESDAY
February 8 “The Divine Woman,” with Greta Garbo
| |

