4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 15, 1928

The Davidso nian

Member of North Carelina Collegiate Press
Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15S
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

t Offi f Davidson as Mail Matter of
Entered at the Pos M4 PR Afr

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.90 the Collegiate Year

All. Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the

Editer by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Article a
neaiven tebe an tnbnewn soutes will not be published.
BOYCE | MARTIN idee sedate dcusepabeceesouen Editor-in-Chief
ey CRAWFORD Kdakssuasscdshysavaunaud Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF er

5 NG BROWN isaccscccccaccuscccnasascosces: Managing itor

W. 3 PRITCHETT ~ --Managing Editor
J. B. MORIA Ba --Managing Editor
C. R. LAKE - Athletic Editor
RB, A. WILSON...--....---.---.----- So Leceeseusae Feature Editor
W. L. LINGLE ....-. A iat Editor
F. C. WITHERS ...-. A iat Editor
T. T. JONES .-... A Editor
L. C. WADSWORTH Alumni Editor
R. C. GRADY ..-.-. Exchange Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
R. S. ABERNETHY......—---.. Assistant Business Manager
S. J. ALLISON....... ----Assistant Business Manager
W. M. POWELL... .--Assistant Business Manager
P. J. GARRISON..............-.-.-----Subscriptiom— Manager
B. \. DICKSON Circulation Manager
S. W. MORRI licitor
W. B. McGUIRE Solicitor
E. H. McCAL Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB ;
W._H. BAILEY-...- President
6 BD iss ies stances casas dncccassatnmnaahoupeeine Vice-President
I R. VCR Otome cote it's Ad had
. P. ANDERSON . P. McBRYD)
S. R. COKER . W. McDERMID
A. T. EDELMAN Ww. _B. HeguenN
ALLAN FREW F. D. MILLER
P. B. FRY V. A. MILTON
E. S. HEEFNER R. T. NAN
R. F. JARRATT D. T. STOKES
R. W. KIRKPATRICK W. R. WEAVER

Z. V. LONG

EDITORIAL

Due to the illness of the editor-in-chief,
the editorial attempts for this issue have
been prepared by junior managing editors.

HONORS COURSES

In keeping with the phenomenal growth
of Davidson as related in the feature story
of the history of the college in Sunday’s
Charlotte Observer and carrying on that
idea of progress and improvement which has
marked this institution since its origin in
1837, is the introduction of what will be
known .as““Honors Courses” next session as
recently announced by college officials.

The purpose of the proposed courses is
that of arousing “interest in a higher grade
of intellectual achievement.” Further, “to
develop on the part of the student of initia-
tive the power of independent investigation
and critical and constructive scholarship ; to
offer to him the opportunity to pursue his
chosen study as rapidly as his talents per-
mit, and to deal with the content of a field
of learning rather than with courses.”

The plan as adopted allows students who
have made an average of at least 85 in their
Freshman year and 90 or better up to and
’ including the mid-semester of their sopho-
more year to take advantage of these
courses. The professor, under whom the
student wishes to study, must approve the
taking of the additional work, however.

Those who take Honors Courses during
their junior and senior years must carry nine
hours of regular class work besides the ad-
ditional research and outside study required
by the special courses.

Innovation of this system is meeting with
great approval by members of the student
body here as it is in other American institu-
tions in which it is a part. This plan, a
modification of the Oxford method, has been
tried in a number of colleges and universities
in this country and has met with great suc-
cess in each place. Davidson officials, like-
wise, are predicting favorable student recep-
tion and are making provisions to offer
courses in practically every department of
work.

Introduction of Honors Courses here will
be an added stimulus to those more pro-
gressive students to delve further into their
chosen fields of work and should create a
greater interest in the subjects generally,
_ ,besides producing igraduates better fitted
and more widely informed in the subjects in
which they have so specialized. ,

Another advantage will be that the
courses will be an impetus to make higher
grades while sophomores and freshmen and
thereby wili raise the general scholastic
standing of the student body as.a whole;

Such instruction also will result in better
instruction of those men who do not wish
to take the special work for, classes will be
much smaller than formerly, if the expected
response to the cotirses is made, and in
‘thorough and more ex-

The adoption ‘of the new system has at-
tracted favorable nes tenn
state, and educators genera y, are ex endin
congratulations. The Davidsonian also
commends this addition and offers congratu-
lations to those who’ were responsible for
the adoption.

LOSING AND WINNING

A hitherto unemphasized side of college
athletics was recently stressed in an article
in the Rotarian, official Rotary magazine, by
President P. W. Horn, of Texas Technologi-
cal College as he offered defense for coaches
and officials of athletic contests in con-
demning overenthusiastic alumni:and sup-
porters of college teams for demanding
teams that win every game during the sea-
son.

President Horn quotes Herbert Spenser,
who once beaten at a game of billards, said:
“A certain amount of proficiency is the mark
of a gentleman, but too much proficiency is
the mark of mis-spent youth.”

“If a team from a comparatively small
college,” he continues, “wins every game it
plays, then there is just as much call for an
explanation as there would be if it lost every
game it played. When the spirit of a com-
munity is such as to demand that the term
win every game, no matter at what cost,
then athletigs may become a factor for ab-
solute evil in the college life of this com-
munity.”

An evil which has been creeping into the
ranks of intercollegiate contests for a num-
ber of years is this over-zealous attitude on
the part of loyal ones who seem to think
that a contest is worthless unless the home
team is victorious and who exert every-ef-
fort in doing their part to accomplish this
end. Ofttimes this is manifest in promis-
cuous betting as they believe that they show
loyalty to their Alma Mater by so doing.

Such a practice strikes at the root of all
that is fine and manly in athletic contests
and seeks to remove them from the field of
sport to the hands of gamblers.

Too, undue criticism is often brought to
bear against coaches for producing losing
teams and caused the dismissal of those who
are not at fault and do not merit such treat-
ment. Officials come under the condemna-
tion of these victory-loving ones as they
render a decision one way or another—either
way brings censure from one side or an-
other.

Alumni criticize teams for not meeting
more erstwhile opposition and bemoan the
fact that victories from very small colleges
do not boost the win column to the proper
height. This may be just and proper, ac-
cording to the existing situation, but as a
rule, those in charge are better able to judge
what should be done.

The writer is not trying to discourage
alumni interest in athletic contests or any-
thing of the like but only to suggest that
this loyalty find expression in a slightly dif-
ferent manner.

Winning games is well worth striving for
and should be the desired end but “whether
we win or lose” the game is the thing!

Open Forum

MORE ABOUT POLITICS
To the Editor of The Davidsonian:

“Where there is much smoke, there is
usually flame” is a generality, and, like all
generalities, subject to exceptions. The
outsider, looking over the past several copies
of The Davidsonian, and noticing the effu-
sive discussions there is regard .to campus
politics would no doubt form the opinion
that Davidson is one of the schools ruled by
an underhand ring of politicians, comparable
in its ingenious workings and complete dom-
ination to Tammy Hall.

No such situation exists. That should be
obvious to anyone who is in the least wise
conversant with conditions here. There is,
no doubt, some talking between men as to
who is the likely man for any position. That
is, to say the most, only natural. Every
student is interested in seeing the man for
whom he has a particular liking named to a
post of honor. It is only by discussions that
safe and sane conclusions are arrived at.

» But aside from this, there ain’t no politics,
which is intended to be forceful if non-
grammatical. If the ugly monster should
dare to raise his head, campus opinion would
nip it in the bloom. The most far-sighted
politics for Davidson is no politics. Every
means must be, adapted to the end. Those
who wish to see'a particular man elected to
office, if they are in any wise acute, must
realize that their talking can do nothing
more than hurt their candidate’s chances.
Sentiment is too strong against anything of
the kind.

No one who is unprejudiced will fail to
admit that there are reforms which might
be introduced into the student government

| Something About
Nothing

4

Easily the hardest thing about writing such a
column as this is starting it. The rest comes with-
out much’ effort.

But perhaps it is outside the rules of the game
to begin with a dissertation on, how hard it is.
That looks too much, like advance bragging. :

Some bird in the Charlotte Observer would limit

faculty supervision of publications, and lectures to

keeping them within the bounds of good taste. He
says this “dangerous ideas” stuff is all the bunk,
since the safe and sane ideas of this generation
were the unsafe and insane ones of a generation
ago. Which sounds all right to us.

By the way, and we don’t mean to infringe on
the Right Honorable Harold C. Brown, that word
“bunk” has a dignified history behind it. Lexi-
cographers have traced its origin straight back to
the house of representatives, which, for words, is
just about equivalent to a Mayflower genealogy.
Here’s the how. A congressman from Buncombe
county, this state, followed a bombastic and im-
passioned political effusion with the statement
that he was “talking only for Buncombe.” Your
common everyday “bunk” is thus the illegitimate
offspring of this more dignified ancestor.

If there are really sermons in stone, the same
applies to words. Take “radical,” for instance.
Despite the ill favor into which it has fallen, a
radical is really a man with the stick-to-it-iveness
to go to the bottom of anything and discover what
is wrong with it. It cornes from the Greek “radix”,
meaning root.

An English assistant declares that over three-

“fourths of the freshmen in his sections have writ-

ten obits over the deceased tank. This issue of
The Davidsonian carries what we think is a clever
parody on the same subject.

Someone has suggested an honorary social fra-
ternity for Davidson. Maybe another step for-
ward—maybe not. Who’ knows?

If you have an inclination towards verse, don’t
let yourself miss Edwin Arlington Robinson’s
“Tristram.” Robinson proves himself dignified,
poetic John Erskine, putting new life into a sub-
ject which Tennyson had apparently exhausted
and made trite.

Diary of a collegiate Pepper:

Slept through morning prayers and a class, but
to two others, where the yawns persisted in ap-
pearing. Noticed that the carefully dug holes in
the campus were filling up. Then somewhat late
to the midday meal, and consequently got up from
table somewhat’ hungry. Back to interview the
dean about absences, who I do declare must have
a particular fondness for me, judging from the
number of “at homes” I receive from him. Wasted
valuable time arguing about the future of Ameri-
can Jazz, after listening to some of the latest
records. Then to ride, carefully within the limits
of the town, with an alumnus, and to work on this
column.

A lady.soliciting magazine subscriptions in an
effort to gain a scholarship attracted quite a lot
of attention around the village Monday afternoon.
She might have been. slighted some by Nature
when beauty was apportioned, but what she lacked
she certainly made up in snappy talk. Several of
the boys were roped in before they knew what
was high. :

I don’t know whether this will fill a column. or
not. Guess“it doesn’t matter much, anyway, for
there will be a very few beside the author who will
read this far. ,

From the perspective of a week, this week-end
looks like it’s going to be a big one. A formal in-
vitation affair Friday night in Charlotte’ and an
informal script one in Mooresville the following

_

of the student council. A man on the cam-
pus, who has had experience with that aug-
ust body, proposes that the personnel, num-
bering at present fifteen men, be divided
thus: one judge, one defense attorney and
one prosecuting attorney, all without votes,
the remaining twelve men to form a jury
which would sit on any case which comes
before it. There are numerous advantages
which might be urged for this system,
among them the fact that it is more closely in
accord with present judicial procedure, that
it would no doubt conduce to a more equable
serving of the ends of justice, and that it
would provide any so-called culprit with a
lawyer who, under no conditions, could be

accused of prejudice one way or the other.’

But to come back to the candidates, it is
clear that the best men are not always
elected to the respective offices. Popular-
ity and the fallibility of humanity would pre-
clude that. Men who have been so for-
tunate as to put themselves before the pub-
lic in some way, whether it be in athletics
or what-not, must be conceded a tremendous
advantage over others. Real leadership is
not always served. But he must be indeed
warped who can maintain that Davidson is
afflicted to any marked degree with that
scourge of almost every government, under-
hand politics.

; J. P.M. .

The Exploding Valve

Random Remarks on Anything From
Steam Shovels to Steam Pianos

,

Now is the time for all good men to come i the
aid of their party. I am not attempting to be trite,
as no doubt I often am, but I sincerely believe that
I am repeating a true. if worn, statement. Espe-
cially now when once again the Jocal campus is
involved in its yearly orgy of political selection, do
we hear hurried but fruitless: summons for all
members to be sure to attend the election and vote
for the favorite son. This done, words of hard
luck and better next time are in order and the
outstanding man is no more. He has departed
toward the oblivion of his Senior year carrying
with him the satisfaction of realizing he once was
considered. .

Perhaps each reader of this attempt to fill space
has:already voted for a “favorite son” and, if he
is fortunate, the readers may even have another
opportunity to waste their vote. But, I contend,
nothing but good feeling arises from this method.
It is to be expected that we mortals prefer a
close friend before the more capable classmates.
The time even comes when a combination of these
two ingredients constitutes a likeable candidate
and consequently there are no misgivings on our ;
part. When this remarkable collection of at-
tributes occurs, the home town papers go wild with
joy, the high school weekly appears with a picture
of its departed and now famous alumnus, and the
relatives of the outstanding man boisteriously ac-
knowledge their relationship. Such is the life of a
leader. This sickening attitude, which promises
to dull, stupify and coat with a permanent varnish
of conceit the man who has come across, should
be*altered. How, and why, is more than I know.
What can be done to prevent the furtherance of
the prevaiting system is beyond my comprehen-
sion, but the situation is, I believe, correctly por-
trayed. But, as the demi-gods would say, so much
for that.

—_—_—_———_—_—_

Should the underclassmen desire a formula—and
without waiting for a reply to this question, I shall
proceed—for developing a politician, I offer the
following. First, upon the ovum of a high school .
reputation or an athletic career, inject the sperm
of the hale-fellow-well-met attitude, the ability to
talk under any and all circumstances, an increas-
ing amount of egotism sedately hid, and a few
concrete examples of something accomplished.
Second, allow this mixture to rest for one, two or
three years (it spoils after the third year) and
finally shake well and announce the birth of this
prodigy at some conspicudus function. Despite the
unbiological and rather degrading method, I be-
lieve that the result will be pleasing.

I, of course, am thinking of no one in partic-

ular nor am I casting any hints of these qualities
on our present or future leaders. These are simply
ideas I have concerning politicians’ and not
leaders.
Yesterday was the day of days for some. By
decree, bids from the honorary fraternities were
dispatched then. Some got what they expected, a few
were surprised and maybe one or two were disap-
pointed. This is to be expected from the credulous
and gullible underclassmen. It is even looked for
from the unitiated upperclassmen. A word to the un-
initiated is never heeded. Yes, despite the danger
of generalities, I think this is true, for who knows
what to expect? The Davidson campus is so ter-
ribly over-organized in the matter of honor soci-
eties the work and good which might be accom-
plished under a _ different system, is hindered
chocked and well?nigh annihilated by our method
of providing a honor group for each forty stu-
dents. By actual count, there exist fourteen honor
societies for six hundred students; the distinction
of belonging to a selected organization is lost by
the fact that many Over-lap and offer nothing
more than another opportunity to have one’s pic-
ture in the annual. Of course, that, in itself, is an
inducement for one has distinctive features.

However, some are worth while and besides of-
fering opportunities for a nice social gathering,
accomplish very excellent things in their line. I
would not discourage any jubilant fellow from
Joining any of these fourteen, but I would caution
against becoming involved with too many purely
Parasitic groups.

And so with the kindly interest that I have to-
ward both systems discussed here, I beg and im-
plore all Parties involved in either of the two pro-
cesses to remember and not, sometime in the fu-
ture, wail, after the manner of several I know:

Roses are red,

Violets are blue,
I picked a lemon,
When I got you.

C. W.

The Athletic Departmen
has instituted the “
striving toward the
exercise in games
gym.

t of Gettysburg College
game idea” for all Students,
end of every student taking his
rather than by himself in the

night, combined with a tea Saturda

t y afternoon and
the Converse Glee Club that night should. just
about constitute a full program. — %

J. P.M.
