Page Tevo

THE DAVIDSONIAN

October 11, 1928.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly by the Students of
Sy Da videon College

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy
$2.00 the Collegiate Year. Entered as second
class matter at the Post Office, Binal ce,
North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be Ns the hands,

of the Managing Editors by 7:00 p. m.,

Monday. Anonymous articles will
not be published.

.Editor-in-Chief

BREY BROWN
ww __Bnsiness Manager

W.,M. POWELL..---

EDITORIAL STAFF i
Piveccapaacaee Managing Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor

. MILLER
PRATT.

..Feature
Assistant
.-Assistant
.-Associate

.-Associate
PRITCHETT....------ Associate
BUSINESS STAFF

Par Srep<nks

. K.

|| anoSHOSNZAS

L. . Mer.
E. Mer.
WwW. . Mer.
R. Mer.
H. ubscription Mgr.
H. c ee "Solicitor
G. D. Solicitor
, A Solicitor
hi. D. TORS Herwien coitus caning Solicitor
REPORTERS’ CLUB

ss ELY os accccessectsccntasegssies President
K ya Stace Vice-President
E. S. Sadia Treasurer
P. R. AL ‘DERM. AN R. T. NUNAN

S. R. ER TiEs
(e}, 13}, DUBOSE W. C, RA

A. FREW D. RUSK
nF R. GRAHAM C, A,

Sai KIRKPATRICK Moe rn

S. H. LOD
J. P. McBRYDE JjJ.V. S MIDDLETON

Thursday, October 11, 1928

+

The Davidsonian
Wants

bs ud

—to add more praises for the
coaching staff and those Wildcats.
—to commend the new sopho-
more and fresh review schedule.
—somebody to initiate the Open
Forum colum with a contribution.
—more sympathy for and co-op-
eration with the literary societies.
—to call attention to the services
sponsored by the “Y” which are
to be conducted here beginning
October 21st.

—it known that the six-page, six-
column Davidsonian has twenty-
four column-inches more than the
eight-page, five-column paper had.

UNDERGRADUATE CYNICISM

Negative college students came in
for severe criticism from Presidént
Hopkins of Dartmouth College re-
cently when he took those to task
who are somewhat cynical in their
outlook and conduct.

In the usual words, the President
emphasized the responsibility of the
youth of-today and of the depend-
ence of civilization thereon. His
attack was directed upon the cynical
attitude and the self-sufficiency of a
certain type as he declared that,
“The vouth of today could, to the
advantage of its own generation, be
somewhat less assured in regard to
its own immediate sufficiency for
creating a new structure of life, that
it could to its own ultimate welfare,
be less certain of the finality of its
opinions; that it could, to its own
eventual self-respect, be less cavalier
in its judgments of men and deeds
of the present and past; and it could,
to the end of safeguarding its own
span of life against ill, be patient to
serve a longer apprenticeship before
arrogating to itself an assumption of
complete wisdom in all matters af-
fecting its own world.”

His attack was upon the collegiate
press as he said, “There, in com-
parison with one understanding ut-
terance based on intelligent interest
as. to how education might be made
more helpful to humanity or more
profitable to the individual, we find
hundreds of cleverly written edi-
torials and articles subversive of all
conventions, of all standards and of

all ideals, if these interfere with in-
dividual desire, individual caprice or
individual self-indulgence. There,
in place of any frequent discussion
of what under-graduates might do
to help their respective colleges, we
find the tiresome reiteration of what
the college ought further to do for
the under-graduates.”

The Dartmouth, college paper,
difers, with Dr. Hopkins as it claims
a place for the liberal college and its
by-product, cynicism. By this it
does not mean “the rational synicism
of 'the boy who i jis merely discontent

life, but rather the cynicism that
comes with,the development of the
objective, or scientific, attitude in the
under-graduate.”

“The problem,” it says, “is only
one of adjustment, or bringing into
harmony a gentle-souled and con-
templative cynicism with the sym-
bols of human endeavor which pre-
ceded its negativity.”

Under-graduate actions should
not be taken so seriously, in our
opinion, for it is usually character-
ized by youthful enthusiasm and
ideals. Many times it is not sincere
as one of the purposes of the college
cynic is usually to create the im-
pression that he. is an individualist
and must rebel against the ideals of
the “common herd.” But this per-
son is useful and should be given
some recognition for there is often
much of the progressive that comes
from him alone even though it may
have to be rem-molded and _ re-di-
rected.

The thought is expressed that the
student upon whom the attitude of
humility and the objective, or scien-
tific attittide have developed side by
side will naturally have as a result
a gentle-souled and contemplative
cynicism ahd will be the happy
medium that both Dr. Hopkins and
The Dartmouth are striving for.

ANOTHER KEY FOR THE
WATCH CHAIN

With the issuance of honorary
fraternity bids there arises again the
question as to their value and place
on this campus. There has always
been, since their inception, a degree
of cynicism and ridicule of such or-
ganizations and much of this has
been justifiable, but the attraction of
the Greek letters, the pride in wear-
ing the “key” and the added attrac-
tion of a picture in the annual have
quickly overweighed any such ob-
jections to membership as one who
receives a bid might have.

This situation should not be.
Where there are organizations there
must certainly have once been a de-
mand which, in most cases, has con-
tinued to exist. The trouble seems
to be that there has been no one will-
ing to’assume the needed responsibil-
ity and make of the fraternities what
they should be—societies recogniz-
ing superiority in certain lines and
promoting interest in the same.
Every of the fraternities
could accomplish much that ‘would
be helpful to the college and student
body. It is up to them whether they
are revived or remain the farcial or-
ganizations that most of them are.

one

The chief difficulty which some
freshmen have is that they can’t
seem to live within their roommate’s
allowance.

It looked like persecution of the
Christians is not a thing of the past
last Saturday.

And who is quarterback at Elec-
toral College this year, anyway ?

The departure of twenty of his
twenty-eight wives must have made
a defeated’ Chinese general 70 per
cent grass widower.

aa
Republocrat or Demublican?

Minor Chords

PRAYER

Lord, let my spirit range as free

As the glad salt winds that roam the sea,

And let my course to harbor be

So laid that straight shall lie the path

Through the mad northeastern’s wildest
wrath

For me.

Temper my soul to every blast,
To the scorching sun, to the ice knit fast;
And test me, hull and spar and mast.
' But when I’m wracked by wind and foam
Safe warp me into my harbor home

At last.

with the simplicity of the animal

—Frank Hall.

Current Comment
By John Brown

Hotchpot

By W. K. Pritchett

The publisher-manager of the Lit-
erary Digest who, by the way, is a
-Roman Catholic, recently mailed out
19,600,000 ballots for straw voting. In
1924 the Literary Digest claimed a
straw vote which was 99.44% accurate.
Returns from the first of this year’s
ballots give Hoover 21,756 votes as
compared with 10,222 for Smith. The
results from a straw vote conducted
by the Pathfinder, which is essentially
rural, are: Hoover 233,315; and Smith
197,408. In electoral votes _ this
amounts to 321 for Hoover and 210
for Smith. Forty-eight states were
represented. And in the straw vote
conducted by the Hearst press, which
is essentially urban, Hoover leads
Smith 390,933 against 337,718. If straw
votes mean anything, it would seem
that Mr. Tillett was mistaken when he
said in the Open Forum last Monday
that it looks like Al will win in spite
of everything.

Among the well-known writers of
today some who are supporting. the
Republican ticket are: Zane Grey,
Harold Bell Wright, Kathleen Norris,
Edward Bok, Bruce Barton, Will Du-
rant, Booth Tarkington and Don Mar-
quis. On the other hand, those for
Smith include H. L. Mencken, Rupert
Huges, Anita Loos, and John Erskine.
And in Atlantic City last week an as-
sociation of 125,000 men pledged them-
selves to the Democratic cause. They
were the United Association of
Plumbers, Gas, and Steam Fitters.

“Some people seem to prefer to bolt
party while others bolt principle.
Some show treason to reason while
others do violence to prejudice. Better
judge them all kindly and give them
credit for conscientious patriotism
even though their diverse facts and
fancies may bring them‘ to conflicting
conclusions.” Instead-of breeding dis-
respect for whichever may become our
future president, the opinion expressed
above should instill a more wholesome
spirit of respect due to administrative
office holders.

During the hurricane centering at
West Palm Beach a few days ago the
barometer fell to the lowest mark ever
recorded in the United States. About
1,500 were killed and 15,000 made
homeless, The property loss amounted
to between fifty and seventy-five mil-
lion dollars,

In Porto Dica 15,000 were attacked
by influenza and 5,000 my malaria.
measles, and other diseases, Besides
the loss of homes and business houses,
heavy losses will be sustained by
growers. It is estimated that the loss
of sugar cane is 25 per cent; of tobac-
co, 50 per cent; of coffee, 75 per cent;
and of fruit, 100 per cent. It will be
a long time before these storm sufer-
ers recover from the devastating ef-
ects of the hurricane.

Adequate relief might be brought
about by the American gum chewers
if everyone would deposit their nickels
or the storm sufferers instead of buy-
ing chewing gum. Last year the
American people spent $58,018,271 on
chewing gum, and that is $2,000,000
more than in 1926,

Aimee Semple McPherson last Sun-
day preached at London before an au-
dience of 11,000 while many others

‘were turned away from the doors.

Bulletins and press notices were issued
warning the public against her evan-
gelical teachings, but people are by
nature curous, so they went anyhow,
and most of them seemed pleased.

The British army now has an anti-

tank gun which can destroy any tank
at 800 yards.

In England they are now completing
two new giant rigid airships, the R-100
and R-1o1. They have a capacity of
5,000,000 cubic feet and carry 130 pas-
sengers and crew. The German air-
ship Count Zeppelin ranks next with
a capacity of 3,000,000 cu. ft. and ca-
pable of carrying 80 men. Its maxi-
mum speed is 81 miles per hour. United
States ranks third with the Los An-
geles, which is the only rigid airship in
the U.S. It has a capacity of 2,500,-
Ooo cu. ft. and carries 60 men at a
maximum speed of 19 miles per hour.
Europe is taking rapid strides to ad-
vance aeronautics of every type.
America is by no means standing still,
but Europe seems to be taking the
lead in this field.

Robert—“Olga, when I am far away
Wil you think of me?”

Olga—“Yes, Robert, I’ll always think
of you as very close.”

An article in a leading New York
newspaper reveals a curious incident
illustrative of the European national-
ity situation sin since the World War.
A young Tyrolian was arrested at
Constance for disturbing the nocturnal
peace of the nhabitants. When he
was brought to the police station the
commissary ask him: “What is your
nationality?” “I don’t know,” replied
the joyous marauder. “You do not
know?” “No, you see, since the war
all the members of my family have
changed their nationality. My grand-
father, who lived in Galicia, has be-
come a Pole; my uncle Czecho-Slovak,
and my brother changed from an Aus-
trian subject to a Rumanian citizen.’
“Enough of that nonsense,” cut in the
commissary, “What is your father’s
nationality?” ‘My father,” said the
Tyrolian, “was an Austrian for 75
years. Eight years before his death
he became an Italian. You tell me
what I am now. I really don’t know.”
And neither do we!

Mr. Hoover is not economical in the
use of the word “economics.” Our
idea-of-an-economistis-one who tells
you what to do with your money after
he has done something else with it.

Brisbane says that in Germany every

day, on the average, 230 apply for pa-
tents. Satrday there were over 300.
The practical German mind rarely

seeks to protect foolish ideas. ‘“Ger-
many’screvival will. come largely from
her patent office,” says Gilbert. Think-
ing, highly educated Geman’sr are to-
day leading the world in chemistry and
in many lines,

The greatest mine of wealth—and
the only mine inexhaustible—is the
human mind. One hour’s concentra-
ted thinking may mean billions in
wealth for the world. Use your brain.

As long as John Barleycorn doesn’t
have to pay taxes he is only legally

dead.

Mr. Baird, the pioneer of television
in England, has been experimenting
with infra-red rays of low vibration,
which are outside our physical range
of vision, He finds that specially pre-
pared plates can be made sensitive to
these radiations. The infra-red rays
penetrate fog as well as darkness, and
they will be used by aviators and nav-
igating officers to detect their where-
abouts in time of fog. This recalls the
strange, prophetic words of Milton in
Paradise Lost:

“Yet from these flames

No light, but rather, darkness made

visible.”

Man takes himself too seriously.
When he bolts his party he claims the
party has left him.

During the last year for which sta-

tistics have been compiled, fire in our
national forests alone swept an aera
of some three hundred and fifty thou-
sand acres. The timber itself is com-
puted at seven hundred and fifty-two
thousand cight hundred and fifty-one
dollars. To this must be added the de-
struction of game and fur-bearing ani-
mals, the ruin of recreational places,
the far-ranging effects of erosion and
unregulated stream-flow, and the loss
of large quantities of leaf litter. The
U. S. Department of Agriculture says
that the Igaf litter alone, containing
nitrogen, is valued at fifteen dollars
an acre.
The great majority of these fires are
man-made. We should try to prevent
such serious loss to the country by the
stopping of human carelessness.

Today there aer two major parties.
After the election they are classed as
the appointed and the disappointed.

Sergeant (drilling a bunch of green
men)—‘*When I was a little boy, I had
a set of wooden soldiers. One day I lost
them and cried very hard. But my moth-
er said, ‘Never mind, Johnny, some day
you will have your soldiers back.’ And
now (he paused and wiped his eyes) that
day has come.’—Ames Green Gander.

Teacher—‘“Norman, give me a sentence
using the word ‘diadem.’”’

Norman—‘People who drive on the
railroad crossings without looking diadem
sight quicker than those who Stop, Lock
and Listen.”

“I’m th’ chap you paid to drown your
cat; an’ I’m sorry, sir, but th’ check you
give me come back.”

“Well, but my good fellow, so did the
cat!”

‘e

|

WANTON WILES

By Dave Anderson

THE BULL PEN

Last week’s edition of this column was most severely criticised on all
sides. There is some consolation in that we know somebody reads this bull,
to say the least. But those that read it seem to have forgotten that it is just
BULL, and is not intended in the least to be serious. These critics seem
too, to have forgotten that there is nothing new under the sun. Even a
columnist gleans little that s original; everything is something old expressed
in different words. Incidentally, the portions of this section most severely
picked to pieces by bull session frequenters was picked up from an article in
one of the most prominent and one of the best-sellers among this country’s
humorous magazines—an edition a year or so old being the source. And
that’s that.

Many thanks to the critics. If, as has been said, popularity is inversely
proportional to adverse criticism—then look out Mr. Brisbane and Mr.
Rogers, Mr. Cobb and others who get paid for what we get —— for, Maybe
we'll get more perusers for this section*now. The only reacon’99 out of 100
people ever read “Elmer Gantry” is because they have heard critics say it
was a rotten excuse for literature and shouldn’t be printed. The only reason
we read “The Plastic Age” was because we heard we should not read it. The
only reason we expect anyone to read this is because they have heard it
criticised,

If people continue to take this foolishness seriously, then the Editor-in-
Chief will have to insert a little note of explanation above this column similar
to that used by most newspapers to dodge the responsibility resultant from
Arthur Brisbane’s occasional radical comments.

“The Davidsonian does not necessarily endorse or commend all of the
Bull Pen’s comments. It is merely published as an expression of the ramb-
lings of the world’s lowest salaried bull slinger.”

Let the critics. rage—we have filled our two columns,
work done.

Another week's

QUESTIONS EVERY DAVIDSON MAN SHOULD BE
ABLE TO ANSWER

1. What hold should one have on the platter of fried chicken while the
blessing s beng asked?

2. What cuss words.are in order when cutting boarding-house steak?

3. What should be the angle of elevation of the forearm when one is
sawing on the cow furnished at all boarding houses?

4. How can you distinguish between the drinking of soup and the noise
of a suction pump?

5. What color vest best matches chicken gravy?

6. Should one use the knife or the fork on the entrance of strange “fire”
into the house at meal times?

7. How many times should one ask for the biscuits at the far end of the
table before reaching for them? bos

8. What is the best method recommended for obtaining an extra dessert?

FROM THE BRIEF CASE

A spades is still a spade, in spite of many who insist on callng a spade a
spizzard,

Try this one on your girl; get her to say
shut. It’s easy. :

Evolutionists who insist on trying to make a monkey out of man should
take a tip from the women on the correct method.

She was only a millionaire’s daughter. What more do you want?

A prof is one who can’t remember where he took his memory course.

“stewed prunes” with her eyes

My parents told me not to smoke—
I don't.
Nor listen to a naughty joke—
“1 don't.
They told me it was wrong to wink
At pretty girls, or ever think
About intoxicating drink—
I don't.

To dance or flirt was very wrong—
T don't.

Bad men choose women, wine and song—
I don't.

I've never wissed a girl—not one—

In fact I don’t know how it’s done—

You may think I don’t nie any fun—
T don't.

MY BROTHERS

My frat brothers: They have dated me with flat-tires, they have used
my last clean shirt, worn out my socks, borrowed my books and never re-
turned them, broken my safety razor and used all the extra blades, ate din-
ners on me when they were broken, borrowed money and never mentioned
the fact again, bulled me incessantly, padded me when a pledge, they have
even used my tooth brush, and the only reason I’m sticking around is because
I’m curious to know what the —— they are going to do next.

FAMOUS EPITAPHS

His name was James Alexander Kohn,
His friends all called him Jim.

But when he answered the telephone,
He shouted, “Yes, this is him.”

Please sir, whose uncle is Uncle Sam?

FROM FATHER TO SON

Dear Son, | v
You have recently Sanouheed your intentions of marrying. I can only
wish for you the happiness which I have had through my choice of a wife.
Your mother is leaning over my shoulder as I write this, and as I gaze into
her beautiful eyes, in which the light of love still beams, I pray that you too
may obtain a helpmate so devoted, so steadfast, and so understanding.
Your father.

P. S. Your mother has just left the room. Don’t be a fool, stay single,
you idiot.

.FORGOTTEN FACES
“Am I the first ‘gel you ever kissed?
“Now that you mention it, your face does lookk nin
Georgia Tech Yellow Jacket.

She:
Frosh:

There was some doubt at a masquerade as to the exact identity of a cer-
tain portly gentleman attired in a Roman toga with all the et ceteras.

“Pardon me, sir,” inquired a curious guest, “But you are Titus Andronicus,
are you not?”

“T’should say I’m not,”
bar yet.”

was the reply. “Why, I haven’t even found the

rY

Love makes a woman make a man make a fool out of himself.

My mother’s brother’s grandfather’s uncle’s brother’s cow’s brother was
an ox.
