The DAVE SONIAN

—_—____

*

.

FOR A BETTER D

AVIDSON

Vol. XV.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 1, 1928

No. 26

JAKE WADE DESCRIBES
JOURNALISM AS WORK
DEMANDING SINCERITY

Journalist Must Have Desire and
Knack if he is to be Successful

“T can not advise you to go into journal-
ism. If you have the urge, that indescribable
leaning, you will drift into it, regardless of
how I paint the situation. If you haven't
got it, you won’t stay in the work long even
if you take a filing at it.” said Jake Wade.
city editor of the “Greensboro Record,”
speaking to those members of the student
body who are aspirants to journalism, in
Shearer Hall Monday night. Mr. Wade,
former sports writer for the “Charlotte
Observer,” was the first speaker for the Vo-
cational Guidance Institute’s week given to
jounralism as a life work. es

In his talk, Mr. Wade traced the evolution

of the newspaper publishing business from |

the days of “personal” journalism, when men
such as Horace Greely were conspicuous,
through the commercial age, when adver-
tising forces controlled the press, up to the
present specialized age.

Newspapers today have entirely divided
their work into.departments, and the old-
fashioned straight newspaper reporter
scarcely exists. The paper has become fill-
ed with features of different kinds. It has
the’ comic strip, the want column, the elab-

orate sports section, the political news. ete. |

The paper has become standardized.

Mr. Wade asserted that the daily has come
to be read as a means of entertainment as
much as a means of instruction. As a result
of this taste of the reader, the feature
writer has his article located in the same
place each day, so that his regular readér
can turn to it at once.

Another effect the taste of the public has
had on the paper, is personalization of the re-
porter. Formerly the reporter was never
known, but today the reporter is allowed to
color his stories, and as a result the public
demands to know who that reporter is. The
liberty of the reporter in his stories has in-
creased step by step. One by one the dif-
ferent news services began to allow signed
articles, until now even the Associated Press,
the most conservative of news service asso-
ciations, has allowed its reporters to liven
up their stories and stick their names to
them.

(Continued on page 8)

Rifle Team Makes
_Admirable Showing

In the match with the V. M. I. rifle team
last week, the Davidson team made a splen-
did showing, but was defeated by a narrow

score of seven points in favor of .V. M. T..

During the first and greatest part of the
match both teams held together in fairly
close order, but during the firing at the last
position, the V. M. I. men showed them-
selves superior to the Davidson team.

Taylor was high score man for Davidson
with a total of 354 points. The individual
scores and the team score ranked high and
showed the ability and efforts of the six men
who made the trip. Four positions were
fired in the match: prone, sitting, kneeling,
and standing, the latter proving not only the
most difficult, but was also the position
which decided the match.

Gapt. J. W. Elkins and Lieut. R. C. Beck-
ett made the trip with the team, driving them
up through the country. They were eriter-
tained at V. M. I., and were spectators at
the cadet parade, as well as guests for sev-
eral other functions of the school. The
team reported a good trip, although the
score was not quite large enough on the
Davidson side to enable them to bring back
a victory.

Noted Swiss Writer
at Shearer Tonight

Through the efforts of the French depart-
ment, the famous Swiss author and lecturer,
Charles Gos, has been secured to lecture in
Shearer Hall tonight at 7:45 o'clock.

His subject will be “Swiss Alps and Alpin-
ism,” which will include something of the
history, science and beauty of this superbly
beautiful region. His lecture will also in-
clude an account of the conquest of the Mat-
terhorn, which should provide a thrill or
two for the audience. In addition, M. Gos
is bringing 50 colored slides, many of them
hitherto unpublished, which have been Jeut
to him by special authorization of Kine Al-
jbert I of Belgium, a gréat Alpine climber
jhimself. The lecturer will speak in both

French and English, but, with the aid of the

slides, should be intelligible to everyone.
Charles Gos is the son of Albert Gos, the
, celebrated Swiss landscape paiter, and a
jnative of Geneva, Switzerland. He
been an outstanding journalist for a number
{of years, contributing to French and Swiss
| Papers and magazines as_a crici¢ and news
| writer, An Alpinist by birth, he has scaled
jmost of the Alpine peaks without a guide,
and has applied to literature the “feeling for
mountains” that his father expresses in his
| pictures. Among his best knowi: books are

(Continued on page 8)

has

’Cat Quintet Wins Two
of Three Final Game

Captain Wilson Leads Scoring as
Cats Close Season—Deacons and
Quakers Defeated

Winding up the last week of the ’27-'28
basketball season, the Wildcat quintet romped
over Guilford and Wake Forest to the tune
of 30-27, and 51-27, respectively, but lost a
tough battle to Duke with a score of 51-33.

All of the contests were played away from
Davidson, except the one with Wake Forest,
last Tuesday night, Duke being met at Dur-
ham on Wednesday, and Guilford on their
own floor Thursday. :

Wilson led the scoring for Davidson, run-
ning up a total of 37 points for the three
games, while Pritchett was second this week.
The highest individual score made by an op-
ponent in any of these three games was 12,
annexed by Dowtin, of Wake Forest.

Box scores:

Davidson (51) Position W. Forest |27)
Kugler (12) James (2)

Forward 3

Prichetti(19) cso eset Scarboro (2)
Forward

Wilson (14) ~--..------.---- Dotwin (17)
Center

Harrison: (2) 2222 see oe Carter (3)
Guard

Hewlett: json es ae Weir, H. (2)
Guard

SRB oo Sus ies Oe Tee Faust

McoAulay (4) asccscueseicccsossses Allen

Crawford i

J OMMSOR wees te et ae eb

Referee, Rawson; scorer, Wadsworth;

timer, Mattox; score at end of half: D. C.,

22; Wake Forest, 11.

Davidson (33) - Position Duke (51)
(Continued on page 8) ’

Final Match of Season
But Lose To Champions

Duke Matmen Claim State and
Southern Championship

HILL WINS BY FALL
Decided Win Over State, 17-8, But
Duke Proves too Strong for Home
Team, Winning 20-3

In the last two meets of the season, the
Davidson matmen lost to the Duke squad,
20-3, and won the match with N. C. State,
17-8. The Duke encounter was in Dur-
ham last Saturday night and the match
with the State grapplers was held in. Ra-
leigh Monday night, the Davidson squad
returning to Tuesday with a
victory listed for the final encounter to
the '27-’28 season. As a result of her vic-
tory over Davidson, Duke now lays claim
to a state, a southern, and possibly a na
tional championship.

Davidson

In the meet with Duke, Captain “Jett”
Garrison the for the
Wildcats, when he got a time decision over
Jennings of 2 minutes and 20
This struggle constituted the outstanding
individual match of the night. The fight
was so evenly balanced that for
minutes neither of the men was off his
feet, and at the end of the allotted time
the advantage In the
period Garrison got the best of his man
and won on time.

The only fall of the match was secured
Captain Culp of the Duke team in

(Continued on page 8)

Was lone scorer

seconds.

seven

extra

was even.

iby

The Davidson College Glee Club left the
campus Thursday morning to invade the

| The itineary of the tour includes points in
| three state: Anderson, S. C.; Atlanta, Ga.;
| Gaffney, S. C., and Gastonia, N. C.

| by authorities that the voices were in excel-
lent condition. The prospects for the trip
j are that it will be one of the best in the his-
| tory of the club, due to the efforts of Pro-
|fessor Cullum, director; John Foster, presi-
| dent, and to Ed. Douglas, business manager,
| The club is traveling in two large busses.

Leaving Davidson the club will appear to-
‘night at the Anderson College for Women,
'where it is being sponsored by the Senior
/class of that school; From Anderson the
;club will go directly to Atlanta, the south-
‘ernmost point of the tour, where it will ap-

pear on Friday night at the Woman's Club, | of the Sophomore class; Henry Powell, who |

and on Saturday night at the Agnes Scott jis the

, College for Women.

, being sponsored by the Woman's Auxiliary
of Atlanta. Mrs. R. S. Lowrance, repre-
| senting this organization, reports that the
sale of tickets so far is exceeding alll expec-
tations. During the stay in the Southern
metropolis, the ladies of the Auxiliary of At-
lanta will entertain the club.

| On Sunday morning, quartets selected
from the club will sing in the different
churches, and in the evening the entire club
will participate in a vesper service at the
Central Presbyterian Church, which will be
broadcast by radio. Anthems and sacred
selections will be rendered.

The club will appear on Monday night at
Limestone College, in Gaffney, S. C., under
the auspices of the Senior class of that
school. On Tuesday, a concert will) be given
in the High School Auditorium at Gastonia,
N.C.

(Continued on page 8)

|
|
|

Forty Davidson Songsters Off to Atlanta
With Two Concerts at Intermediate Points

§ | Southland with music, melody. and mirth, |

|
|

|
|

| Since the Christmas holidays the club has |
been practicing every week, and it was stated |

| Colleges of State

Wildcat Grapplers Win | JESUS IS SOLUTION TO

PROBLEMS OF COLLEGE

SAYS REV.

Honors Courses to
be Innovated ‘Here

At chapel exercises ‘on Saturday, February
25th, Dr. W. J. Martin sounded the key-note
| for what promises to be one of the most sig-
nificant steps Davidson College has taken in
| recent years. He announced that next fall
the college would institute what a host of
| American colleges have, termed ‘Honors
| Courses.” These courses will be open to
| Juniors and Seniors who have met the grade
| requirements for their first two years, and
‘will allow a man to concentrate his efforts
upon the work of his choice.

|

In recent years, a wave of liberal educa-
tion has made itself felt in schools throughoitt
the world. The continual inflow of college
inert has so over-crowded most of the sshools
that education has, to a great degree, missed
its purpose. Men capable of much _ hbetter
| work, and men who desire to devote their
| talents to the thing for which they are best
i suited, find themselves held back in classes
| with men who do only mediocre work. Hon-
}ors courses are designed primarily to reach
men who should be doing work of a more
| Special nature, men who seem tobe capable
jot using their own time and talents to good
jadvantage. The purpose of the proposed
| Honors courses is stated in the resolutions

adopted by the faculty, as follows:
| (Continued on page 8)

‘Man Frew Selected to .
Speak in State Contest

Preliminary Contests Sponsored by
State Forensic Association in

Davidson's representative in the State Ora-
toricals for this year will be Alan Frew, of
the Sophomore class. This ,was decided |

when Frew was chosen as the winner in the
preliminary contest, held here last Friday
night in Shearer Hall. Henry Powell was
chosen as the alternate.

There were but three entrants in the pre- |

| The appearance at the Woman’s Club is | contest were:

| The North Carolina Intercollegiate Foren- | : ;
| sports, mass athletics, and gymnastics on the

liminary contest. They were: Bill Beavers,

president of the Forensic Council, and |
Alan Frew, the winner. The judges of the |
Dr. Vowles, Professor Flea-
gle, and Professor Erwin.

sic Association, of which Henry Powell is |
the president, is sponsoring the State Ora- |
toricals which are to be held on March 30th |
at Davidson. The State Forensic Associa- |
tion is now having preliminary contests held |
in each of the colleges of the state. The |
winner of the state contest will be allowed to}
represent North Carolina in the Regional |
Contest, and the winner of the Regional Con- |
test will go to Los Angeles to enter the Na-
tional Contest. The prize of this latter con-

test is $1,500.

The state of Calinornia is sponsoring the
National Contest, with a wew toward arous-
ing interest in and knowledge of the United
States Constitution. The exact location
where the Regional Oratorical Contest is to
be held has yet to be decided.

E. A. WOODS

Salisbury Pastor is Speaker at “Y”
Vesper on “The Passing and the
Permanent

| In an impressive address on “The Passing
and the Permanent.” Rev. Edgar Woods,
pastor of the First. Presbyterian Church of
Salisbury, made an earnest appeal at vespers
Sunday evening for young college men to
‘consider what is abiding in the bewildering
changes of the modern world.

“The world passeth away and the desire
for it; he that doeth the will of God abideth
forever,” found in I John 2:17, formed the
central theme of the speaker's message.

Amid the kaleidoscopic. shiftings’ of the
centuries, certain principles have remained.

Euclid’s geometry has survived revolutions
in government and fusion of races and is
still recognized as authoritative today.

Such permanance is even more, prevalent
when the moral and spiritual field is consid-
ered. Although we no longer use Ruth's
sickle for harvesting, we still feel that her
unselfish love and loyalty are necessary for
the woman of today. Lindbergh's monoplane
will be out of date in the near future, but
the sterling qualities of personal courage and
devotion to duty will remain.

Under the many changes occasioned by
modern science, the human heart remains
much the same, and is disturbed by the old
problems of sin, suffering and doubt. How
can a young college man reconcile the God
of the church with the scientific teaching
which he receives. Yet the very fact that a
man seeks to make this reconciliation, that
he is constantly striving to seek God, reveals
a fundamental instinct in his nature which
needs. satisfying : this fact is more important
than the reconciliation with science.
| The love of God is abiding and is express
ed in an Abiding Book. Critics of the Bible
should ‘remember that it is inspired of an in-
finite God, that it appeals to an unchanging
part of man’s nature, and that it introduces
the Abiding Person of God.

Jesus Christ is as modern as any of our
moder problems, and is the best possible
solution to these. He is still the One who
can change a sinful life into a fuller, nobler
character. “He is the same yesterday, today,
and forever.”

He that would abide forever must lay hold
of certain abiding things. Religious faith,

(Continued on page 5)

Chair of Physical

Education in Sight

In the near future Davidson may have a
director of physical education, The initial
step towards this innovation was made at the
recent meeting of the board of trustees, when.
that body gave its permission to set up a
chair of physical education in Davidson.

The director will be a man of suitable
preparation to take care of all inter-mural

hill. His especial job will be to look out for
those men who are not actively identified
with some form of sport, and to see that
such men receive systematic athletic train-
ing. Boxing, gymnasium classes, wrestling,
and other indoor sports will probably take on
new life. The outstanding. consideration,
of course, is that all men, unless physically
disabled, shall receive attention which will
prove beneficial to them.

It is thought that this idea will take on a
definite form at an early, date, and that Da-
vidson will join the ranks of those schools
boasting a complete department of’ physical
education. . The completion of the plan will
mean a great deal to Davidson, and it seems
now that sentiment is fast turning in favor
of the proposed department.
