THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 16, 1928

ALUMNI SECRETARIES
PLAN EXTFNSIVE TOUR
TO END IN NEW YORK

Meetings Arranged at Richmond,
Baltimore, Washington and New
York—Personal Interviews
Planned at Other Cities

‘An early spring tour, which will carry
Davidson’s two alumni secretaries on an
extended swing up through the northern
and eastern state of the Atlantic sea-
board has been planned for March 8-15.
Four alumni meetings are to be held on
the trip, the remainder of the time being
spent in interviews wit} individual alum-
ni in the states through which the alumni
secretaries will travel.

The first of the four meetings will be
held at Richmond, Va., where more than
60 Davidson alumni are located. The
Richmond meeting will be held on March
8,,with Dr. Walter Lingle in charge, Da-
vidson alumni, who are studying at Union
Theological Seminary will attend this
meeting.

The following evening a mecting of Da-

vidson alumni will be held in Washington, |

D. C., under the direction of J. A. Thomas,
who was graduated from Davidson in the
class of ro18. On the day preceding the
dinner the alumni secretaries will visit
the alumni in Washington and hold per-
sonal interviews with groups of former
Davidson students.

Baltimore will be the scene of the third
meeting, which is scheduled for Saturday,
March 10, From Baltimore, Ernest Mil-
ton, alumni secretary, will continue to
New York where he is to be the guest
of honor at the semi-annua! meting of
Davidson alumni in that city.

The local officials of the alumni office
will return to Davidson about March 1s.

The professor was giving his pupils
some pointers on short story writing.

“To be successful,” he said, “the short
story should have a touch of reverence,
some reference to royalty, and just a lit-
tle of the risque. See if you can write
something for me tomorrow which will!
cover those points.”

The next day the budding author
ed in the following:

“My God,” said the princess, “take your
hand off my knee.”—Northern Baptist.

hand-

FELLOWS!

You’ll always find a well-

equipped U-Drive-It Ford
at the right price at

Henderson’s Filling Station

DAVIDSON, N. C.

Beginners’ Golf Outfits. We

Canvas Bag for $8.50. We restring Tennis Racquets.

Myers Hardware and

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Personal

Friends of Clarence Rankin, ’87, of
Asheville, and E, R. Rankin, ’06, of
Statesville, will regret to learn of the
death of their father, James E. Rankin,
which occurred in Asheville this week_at4
the age of 82 years. Mr. Rankin was
described as one of the “pioneer bankers”
of that city, and was connected with
Asheville in many civic capacities.

C. K. Taylor, Jr., ’25, is now with the
| Youngstown Steel Products Co., of °At-
lanta, Ga.

Rev. R. L.: McLeod, '23, who recently
returned from a year’s study in Scotland,
|is now pastor of the First Presbyterian
| Church of Grenada, Miss.
|

A. L. Blanding, ’78, of Fountain

S. C., has recently compiled and
edited a history of the Blanding, McFad-
den and Lenoir families. Members of the
| first two have been connected with Da-
vidson College as students.

| Dr.
| Inn,

UE RE
| J. F. McClerkin, ’20, whose home is at
| Monticello, Ark., is private secretary of
| Senator Joe T. Robinson, of Arkansas,
jand at present is in Washington, D. C.
| pei Sasa
Hon, W. F. Stevenson ,’85,°whose home
is at Cheraw, S. C., is now in Washing-
ton, D. C., being a congressman from that
district. So far as is known, he is the
only Davidson alumnus acting in that
capacity.

Bald—“Are you sure this will
hair?”

Salesman—“Will it? -I-spilled some on
the oil cloth last night and this morning

it was a rug.”

grow

For
Heating and Plumbing

Contractor of
Rare Excellence

See

Elliott & Byers

Phone 78-W

offer a set of four Clubs an

Sporting. Goods Co.

“If in need of any Oxfords, Shoes, Shirts,

Neckwear, Suits or a nice Top Coat

come in; we can supply your wants

THE GLOBE CLOTHING CO

Sth Door from Bank

jis perhaps the oldest graduate of David-
|son, being the only one of the three to
complete his course at the college.

Alumni Office Locates
Oldest Living Alumni

Dr. Petrie is now 88 years old, and is
planning this year to celebrate the 5oth
|anniverstary of his connection with the

After Thorough Search
Presbyterian Church of Charlottesville.

Rev. I. Conder Oldest in Years—Dr. He left Davidson and obtained his bache-
G. L. Petrie Oldest Matriculate— \lor of arts degree from Oglethorpe: Uni-
UB Stringfellow Oldest versity, going from there to Columbia
Graduate Theological Seminary to prepare for the

‘ offi saatituted ministry. He served as a chaplain in the
eC stitutec
Since the alumni office was instituted Vo: between the states, and was later

at Davidson College in the fall of 1926, A 3
those conected with it have been et | Migs, H detrei Guard AS da 5)

L eh {iss.
ae tania to ae ie oldest aiice jto Charlottesville were at Greenville, Ala.,
ni. ne seach has been completed, it is! 14 Petersburg, Va. In 1887 H iene

; : ‘ g, Va. In 1887 Hampden
sara pear ean reans aia = Sidney College conferred a doctor of
clude three different viewpoints, divinity degree upon him.

Rev. G. L. Petrie, D.D., of Charlottes-| Rey, J, Conder is not only the oldest
ville, Va., member of the class of 1859 is living alumnus of Davidson in point of
perhaps the oldest alumnus in -point of age, but has a still longer record than
matriculation. Dr. Petrie for a continuous pastorate.

Rev. I Conder, of McGaheysville, Va.,| He retired two or three years ago, after
member of the class of 1860, is perhaps | serving the church at McGaheysville
the oldest’alumnus in point of years, be-| since 1866. He did not complete his work
ing 96 years old at this time. at Davidson, but attended the North Car-

Mr. J. J. Stringfellow, of Chester, S.] olia College from which institution he
C., also a member of the class of 1860,| obtained his A.B, degree in 1861. The

His pastorate prior to his going |

| alumni office does not have data concern-

ing his seminary work, but it is known
that he entered the ministry in 1862, do-
ing evangelical work for the Tennessee
Lutheran Synod.

The oldest living graduate fo David-
son—Mr. Stringfellow—returned to his
home at Chester, S. C., after graduation
and became a druggist and pharmacist.
He also served in the war between the
states, received two wounds at Seven
Pines which disabled him for five months.
Two years later he was wounded at Wil-
derness, and he was also wounded at
Farmville two days before the surrender.
| Mr. Stringfellow has been blind for 18
| years and is now slightly deaf, but still is
actively interested in a farm which he

operates near Chester.
|

Knight Erring
In a still, shadowed garden
I came on a lady fair, °
And held by strange enchantment,
I would have lingered there.
But furious at my adoration
She sent me over the wall.
| Ah, the beautiful, dreaming lady
Had no make-up on at all,
—Flambeau.

to the head
of the.

YEARS ago, P. A. showed a clean pair of heels
to the field of smoking-tobaccos. It has main-
tained its lead ever since, putting more distance
behind it every year. There must be a reason
why P.A. is the world’s largest-selling brand.

There is! Open a tidy red tin and get a full
breath of that class-by-itself fragrance. Then
tamp a load into the bowl of your pipe and
light up. The first pull tells you why more men
smoke P.A. than any other brand. Cool and
smooth and mellow and mild—not for one
pipe-load, but always. Try this long-burning
tobacco, Fellows. You'll say so!

PRINGE ALBERT

—the national joy smokel

©2028, J, Roveaide Tobecee

uality sent P-A:

if you vibrate to

quality, you'll gravi-
tate to P.A.

