THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 3, 1928

as

=

ok,

DAVIDSON FRESH DEFEAT
-CATAWBA BY HIGH SCORE

The Davidson College Wildkittens won
their second track meet of the year last
Thursday when they defeated Catawba Col-
lege here by the one-sided score of 92 to 24.

The Wildkittens won all of the 13 first
places, and most of the second places, to
score this overwhelming victory.

Thad Brock, of the Wildkittens, led the
scoring for the day, taking first place in the
pole vault and the high jump, and third
places in the shot put and broad jump, for a
total score of 12 points. He was followed
closely by Tom Neal, flash sprinter for the
Kittens, who took first in the 100 and 200
yard dashes, for a total score of 10 points.

For Catawba, Aycock led the scoring with
six points to his credit.

The Summary:

100 yard dash—Neal, Davidson, first; Mc-
Call, Davidson; Byers, Catawba. Time, 10.5
seconds,

Mile run—Wilson, Davidson, first; Mas-
ters, Catawba; Daffin, Davidson. Time, 5
minutes, 7 seconds.

220 yard dash—Neal, Davidson, first; Ay-
cock, Catawba;-. Goodykoontz, Davidson.
Time, 25 seconds.

120 yard high hurdles—George, Davidson,
first; Dennis, Davidson; Fletcher, Catawba.
Time, 18 seconds.

440 yard dash—Goodykoontz, Davidson,
first; Aycock, Catawba;, Moore, Catawba.
Time, 57.2 seconds.

220 yard low hurdles-—Dennis, Davidson,
first; George, Davidson; Warlick, Catawba.
Time, 27.9 seconds.

880 yard run—Middleton, Davidson, first;
Drake, Davidson; Moffett, Davidson. Time,
2 minutes 16.6 seconds,

Pole vault—Brock, Davidson, first;
lick, Catawba. Height, 7 feet 8 inches.

Shot put—Fraley, Davidson, first;
Davidson; Brock, Davidson.
feet 3 1-2 inches.

High jump—Brock, Davidson, first; Mc-
Call, Davidson; Dennis, Davidson ;.Bostian,
Catawba; Fletcher, Catawba (4 tied for
second place). Height, 5 feet 8 inches.

Broad jump—McCall, Davidson, first ;
Bostian,. Catawba; Brock, Davidson. Dis-
tance, 19 feet 11 1-2 inches.

Discus—Boyles, Davidson, first; Love, Ca-
tawba; Fraley, Davidson: Distance, 96 feet
6 1-2 inches.

Javelin—Coble, Davidson, first; McCul-
lough, Davidson; White, Davidson. Dis-
tance, 151 feet 6 inches.

War-

Distance, 33 |

Boyles, |;

Summer Session to

Begin Work June 12

The opening of summer school this sum-
mer will mark the beginning of a regular
summer school at Davidson; formerly the
summer session was composed only of pro-
fessors teaching certain subjects.

Prof. F. K. Fleagle, hed of the Spanish
department, who was recently elected dean
of the summer school, made known in a re-
cent announcement that enrollment for the

summer session would be concluded on June
Ist, no applicant being taken after this date,
The Davidson summer school, created t
meet the increasing demand for study under
the Davidson faculty, is open to men and
women seeking to complete their studies for
undergraduate and graduate degrees. The
summer school will open its session June
12th and continue for six weeks, through
July 24th. Full college credits will be given
to students completing the required amount
of work in the various courses included in
the curriculum. The faculty membership
has not yet been announced but is expected
to be made known soon. There will also be
a complete schedule of classes and courses
published. Judging from the past sessions
of summer school at Davidson, the student
body will be composed of public school
teachers from all sections of the southeast as
well as college students and others who de-
sire to attend.

Those students who wish to secure rooms
in the dormitories should make their request
known to the director of the summer school
as soon as possible. Rooms will be available
for those desiring them at $12.50 each for
the six weeks.

The gum-chewing girl
And the cud-chewing cow
Are somewhat alike,
But different somehow.
What difference?
Oh, yes, I see tt at
It’s the thoughtful
Look on the face of the cow.

* * * *

Slow motion: _Two Scotchmen waiting

to see who would take the dinner check.

EXTRA ANNUALS
Order Now—Only Limited Number Being Printed

Fate of Four Columns
of Old Chambers Left. |
to Hands of Trustees)

Probability is That They Will Re-'

main on Campus

There seems to be a common supposition
among the members of the student body that
the four columns which remain from the Old
Chambers Building have been left standing
by the college authorities to serve as a me-
morial marker of the old building. In a re-
cent interview with President Martin the
statement was made to the effect that the
disposition of these pillars rests in the hands
of the college Board of Trustees and the
board has never ordered their removal nor
have they given any order concerning them,
so by common consent they have been left
standing.

Dr. Martin also stated that they would
probably be left as they are until the com-
pletion of the New Chambers Building and a
final decision will be made ‘Concerning them
at that time. Unless they are found to be
in the way or detrimental in any way to the
appearance of the new building, they will
probably remain standing as a memorial to
the famous old structure of which they alone
remain to mark its former site.

Ivy has been planted at the base of each
column during the past year and is rapidly
training itself upward around them. This
will, in time, beautify them to a great ex-
tent. If the board orders them to stand,

some repairs will probably be made to therh |

to prevent the crumbling at the top which
the elements have caused.

A consensus of student body opinion seems
to be in favor of allowing the old columns:to

Playing to a well-filled house last Satur-
day night, members of the class of ‘2? pre-
| sented one of the best and snappiest min-
Istrels in the history of the college. The
minstrel was the concluding feature of the
annual Junior Speaking program, and was
put on almost exclusively by Junior talent.

With Dick Kane as interlocutor, and Bi!l
Regen, Bob Horton, Laurence Kirkland,
Mac King, Sam Black, Hub Knox, Frank
Cannon and Dick Flinn as end men, the
program was pulled off without a hitch and
their jokes and songs kept the audience
laughing continuously.

The entire show was in the nature of a
tambourine chorus, each member of the cast
flourishing his tambourine with timely effect.

Several special vocal solos were presented
during the entertainment, Flinn opening this
part of the program by singing, “Save a Lit-

remain standing and Dr, Martin said that
this plan is favorable to him, but their fate
rests in the hands of the board of trustees.

CHARI OTTE
KNOXVILLE

S & W Psbisusios

are catering to you

(ATLANTA Soon)

J UNIORS END PROGRAM
“WITH SNAPPY MINSTREL™

tle Dram for Me.” Charles Creech sang
“Girl of My Dreams,” Bill Archie “Love
Sends a Little Gift of Roses,” Frank Cannon
“Lay Low Elizabeth Brown,” Bob Horton
“Original Two-time Man,” Burwell Peter-
son ‘“Abnet.”

Probably the most applauded feature of
the program was the stringed instrument duet
by Proctor Thompson and Tommy Jones.
These boys played several pieces, following
which Gordon McSwain, Proctor Thompson,
and Mobley, sang a few popular songs, with
Thompson also accompanying on his guitar.
These selections were encored time after
time.

An added feature of the evening’s program
was the official presentation, by Dick Kane,
of a Wildcat and cage to the class of ’29, by
Ben Withers, an alumnus of Davidson now
residing in Charlotte.

Much praise is due to Mr. Irving Setzer,
of Charlotte, for ‘the success of the min-
strel.

ASHEVILLE
RALEIGH

1928 QUIPS AND CRANKS
Please send me ________ copies of the 1928 Quips and Cranks for
$5.00 per copy. ry 9
a When Dad was a “Modern Youth
Address --.--------------------.---------- ICYCLES, stereopticon lectures, stteet lighting sheds its friendly
ele Po RELA and the “gilded” youths with glow over the campus.
Wiskedtaee yew a es bebat aa read ; their horses and carts; at night the Without electricity we would

midnight oil burning in student

lamps while the gas lights glared and

flickered actoss the campus—the

gay nineties when Dad was in

college seem primitive to us to-day.
Now it’s sport roadsters, the

movies, and radios. At night

the MAZDA lamp replaces

‘the midnight oil in dormi-

tory rooms, while modern

Scientists in the research laboratories of the General Electric
Pea Company keep G.E. a leader in the field of electrical

; ; . : progress. Skillea G-E engineers develop each latest invention.
’ e The G-E factories the
Davidson Book & Stationery Co. ae Or ee ene Re we
Everything the student needs

have none of these improve-

ments. To-day’s marvel of electrical

invention becomes to-morrow’s

accepted utility. In the coming

_years, by taking advantage of new

uses of electricity you will be
_able to go'so much farther
that the “tearing twenties”
will seem just as primitive
as the “‘gay nineties”.

Mail to C. R. ROWE, Box 319, Davidson, N. C.

Boys!
Mother’s Day 1s the 13th
Pick out her candy and

flowers now

Ratseetty material and expert ntaleuse

VICTROLAS. | UPERIOR
STATIONERY ODA
, STUDENT SUPPLIES | ERVICE

GENERAL iMacs Sah COMPANY, SCH ENECTADY ro.

—— ‘ ; cia

