THEDAVI

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XV.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C,. JANUARY 12, 1928

No. 15

OFFICIALS

CALL FOR BIDS ON CHAMBERS BUILDING

Military Unit Shows Up
Favorably As [tabsrtors
View Local Gu wil

Major-General Davis, Citi wile |
of Area, Receives Review

LUNCHEON TENDERED

War Department. Inspection Set for
First Week in April to Determine
National

Davidson's “esprit de corps” came in for
high praise on January 4th when high army
Officials visited the college for an informal
inspection of the R. O. T. C. unit. Maj.
Gen. Richmond P. Davis, commanding of-
ficer of the Fourth Corps Area, with head-
quarters at Fort McPherson, Georgia, in-
cluded Davidson in his rapid review of all
the military units in the Carolinas and
Georgia, and during his visit here was high-
‘ly pleased with the interest taken by the
cadets in the military work.

In addition to General Davis, Davidson
was host to Maj. H. J. Maloney, R. O. T. C.
officer of the Fourth Corps Area, who made
his annual inspection visit on the same day
that General Davis was here.

Major Maloney arrived during the morn-
ing of the 4th and was shown the type of
classroom work conducted here for cadets.
F.#owing that, he inspected the armory and
equipment, pronouncing’ it in excellent con-
dition, and took a look at the various firing
ranges at the college. Major Maloney also

(Continued on page 8)

Peter’s Declaration of
Faith is Carter's “Theme

Forceful Preacher G: Gives Clean-Cut
Message in First 1928 Vesper
Service

“All learning is a vain endeavor to com-
prehend the truth until we have come into
personal contact with the greatest of all
personalities, Jesus Christ,” declared the
Rev. J. H. Carter, of Taylorsville, speaking
at “Y” Vespers last Sunday night, in Shear-
er Hall.

A noble and straightforward profession
of faith by the outspoken fisherman, Peter,
furnished the theme of the message. This
declaration of allegiance given at a crucial
moment in Christ’s ministry when His fol-
lowers were deserting Him, was: “Lord, to
whom shall we go? Thou hast the words
ofeternal life. And we believe and are sure
that thou art that Christ, the Son of the
living God.”

First of all, Mr. Carter said, Peter real-
ized that he must go somewhere; to stand
still meant stagnation. An irresistible force
was pushing him on to a choice, to‘the Su-
preme Alternative of his life. Where was
he to go if he chose not to follow the way
of Jesus any longer? Could he find any
other Way to salvation and happiness ?

The apostle if dissatisfied might have gone
over to the sect of the Sadducees, the ra-
tionalists of their day. But they, he would
find, were treating man as a mere mind as
some people are trying to do today. Al-
though we should never do anything to throt-
tle the processes of the human mind, we must
realize that it is not the only faculty given
man by God. Man must use his whole per-
sonality in his search for truth. A

Then, Peter might also have gone to join
the ranks of the ceremonial Pharisees, who
were really obscuring truth by their near-
sighted view of services and elaborate ritual.

_\Cootinnes, on page 8).

|
|
|

NORRIS TROPHY

Announcement was made» yesterday
that the Norris Trophy Cup, awarded
each year to the athlete who has con-
tributed greatest to Davidson sports
during the past year, will be put on
display at the White Drug Store at
once, The outstanding athletes will |
be voted on later in the spring and the
successful man announced on the an-
nual Athletic Night. This award,
given by the Norris Candy Co., of At-
lanta, was won by Ernest Bohannon
last year.

Shewmake’s Study
Of Speech’ Praised

Dr. E. F. Saas: he head of the English
Department of the College, is the author of
a recent publication entitled “English Pro-
nunciation in Virginia.” This is the secend
noteworthy work of the present year which
Dr. Shewmake has brought forth, having
been one of the authors of “College English
Composition.”

This study of English pronunciation in
Virginia was accepted in 1920: by the faculty
of the University of Virginia as a doctrinal
dissertation. Professor Hans Kurath, of
Ohio State University, a nationally recog-
nized authority on the subject, says concern-
ing the study, “It is doubtless the best mono-
graph on Southern pronunciation we have.”

Part of the work dealing with the dialec-
tal pronunciation of ou and i was published
in slightly modified form in Modern Lan-
guage Notes in December, 1925.

This study of speech-in the Old Dominion
has six chapter divisions convering 45 pages,
consisting of Introduction, Previous Studies
of Virginia English, English Pronunciation
of the Past, English Pronunciation of the
Present, Virginia Pronunciation in Liters

(Continued on page 8)

Rusk Honored As

Committee Recommends
That Fraternities Move
Back To Campus Houses

Move Made to Better College
Conditions

BOARD IS FINAL JUDGE

Houses Will Be Built in Designated
Area and Rented to Chapters

All of Davidson's social fraternities will
be moved into houses on the campus, if the
decision which was reached by a committee
of faculty members and five members of the
Executive Committee of the Board of Trus-
tees meets with the approval of the general
Board at their meeting in February.

This group met here recently to consider
this question of fraternity housing after de
tailed investigations had been carried on
among the different organizations. The de-
cision at this meeting was that the college
life as a whole would be improved «with the
removal of the fraternities from the houses
which they have occupied for the past three
years.

Those who have been in close touch with
the situation believe, without a doubt, that
the recommendation cas “Sresented to the
Executive Committee of the Board will be
passed and that no changes will be made in
the plans as five of the nine members were
at this recent meeting.

It is the ‘present expectation to have the
fraternities back on the Hill by next year,
even though a great amount of construction

(Continued on page 5)

Six Prominent Speakers
On Vocationa' Program
Six Weeks Beginning February 15

| Designated as Time for Conduct-
ing Institute Here

Plans are being developed by the Y. M.

Fresh President

Dean Rusk was elected president of the
Freshman class at a meeting Monday night,
in Shearer Hall. Rusk was chosen from a
field of six men, and was elected after the
second ballot. The men nominated for the
presidency of the class were: Dean Rusk,
Archie McLean, Pete Glidewell, Buster
Shepard, Dan LaFar, and Dan Goodykoontz.
After the first ballot, the three high men
were Rusk, Glidewell, and McLean, with a
vote of 63, 20, and 20, respectively. On the
second ballot Rusk won out with a total of
83 votes, McLean got 30 and Glidewell 25.

All of the men nominated wete put for-
ward by the Student Council Nominating
Committee and no men were nominated from
the floor. The rest of the officers of the
class will be elected at some meeting in the
future, it being decided to postpone their
election by a majority vote of the class.

As soon as their president has been sworn
inté the Student Council the Freshmen will
automatically become.members of the Stu-
dent Body and will be entitled to vote in all
Student Body elections. They had not been
granted this privilege before due to a clause
in the Constitution of the Student Body that
prohibited them from being considered a
part of that body until after the election of
their president.

Dean Rusk is a pledge to the Kappa Al-
pha social fraternity ,he is also a basketball
star, a Davidsonian reporter, the local rep-
resentative of the State Intercollegiate Press
Association, and holds a position at the local
(Continued on page 5)

~

C. A. for the Vocational Guidance Institute.
For the benefit of the new men who have
not experienced the active work of thie In-
stitute, the organization is conducted by the
Y. M. C. A. for the purpose of helping col-
lege men decide on their future vocation.
The institution is not local to Davidson, but
is a recent movement including in its scope
a large number of the colleges of the South.
Davidson, however, has taken the lead in
the field and this year undertakes possibly
one of the most extensive programs ever at-
tempted.

The meetings will begin on Wednesday
evening, February 15th, and will continue on
every Wednesday night for six weeks. Dur-
ing this time six of the most important vo-
cations will be considered as extensively as
possible. The six professions which will be
given particular attention are Business, Law,
the Ministry, Medicine, Education and Jour-
nalism.

Mr. Weiseca, of the Southern Bell Tele-
phone Company, from Atlanta, will probably
introduce the Institute. Mr. Weiseca is
greaty interested in Davidson, has made
visits to the college and has procured posi-
tions in the company for Davidson men.

The Institute will procure one man to talk’
on each profession, who is outstanding in his
field. About seven or eight, mostly David-
son men, are being considered for each pro-
fession. Such men as Smith Richardson,
president of Vicks Salve Company, and Mc-
Allister Carson, of the Independence Trust
Company, of Charlotte, are being considered
for talking on Business. A group of very
prominent men in the field of Law are being

(Continued on page 8)

1928 CAPTAIN

Lewis McColgan

McColgan Elected

To Pilot Wildcats

Lewis McColgan, of Norton, Va., who
was given honorable mention on several all-
state selections, will captain the 1928 Wild-
cat football team, as decided at a recent
meeting of letter men. . Ed Wilson, of Char-
lotte, was chosen to act as alternate captain.

McColgan, despite early season injuries,
did fine work in the line_for Davidson this
past season. Though this year was his first
on the varsity, yet he was easily the most
outstanding and consistent man in the lind,
and was noted for his fighting spirit. This
is the first time in several seasons that the
honor of captain has been given to a lineman.
McColgan is a guard, and. belongs to Kappa
Alpha.

Wilson, who has served for the past two
years in the Davidson backfield, stands out
as one of the finest field generals in North
Carolina’s Big Five conference. His fine
work throughout last season, and especially
in the Carolina game, will be long remem-
bered by Davidson football supporters. Wil-
son is noted for his passing ability and his
clear thinking on the field.

W. H. Mauze was elected manager of the
varsity for next year, after three years of
service as assistant. E. C, Close, R. C. Wells
and S. Y. Cassells, from the Sophomore
class, were elected as assistants, with Z. V.
Long as alternate. The first three. named
will work during the 1928 season, at the end
of which one will be chosen by the team.

Beginnings of a Hebrow University
have been inaugurated in Jerusalem. Lord
Balfour performed the opening ceremony.
Work ‘in some of the departments has
already begun. The university ‘is pri-
marily for Jews and the officials language
will be Hebrew, but members of any race
will be accepted as students.

TRAINS CHANGED

Recent changes of train schedules
through Davidson have caused quite a
bit of confusion in mailing letters, and
so the time of arrival of mail-carry-
ing trains, with. recent chatiges, is
given below:

To Charlotte: 9:40 a. nyt e m

From Charlotte: 2:58 a. m, 7:58
a. m., 2:33 p. m.

| North Wing g of Building

Will Be Ready For Use
By First of September

Efforts to Raise a Riteaintne Hundred
Thousand Continued

$5,000 GIFT RECEIVED

Gastonia Patroné Give Memorial
Room as Campaign for
$300,000 Nears Close

Tt has heen definttely announced by col-
authorities that work will be begun at
date on the construc-
two units of new

lege
the earliest possible
tion of the remaining
Chambers building. Bids have been called
for to be put in by February Ist, and a num-
ber of contracting companies are expected
to bid. ;

After the awarding of the contract, work
will be started on the north wing of the
building, which wil contain. the laboratories
Land additional offices. F. L. Jackson, treas-
Furer of the college, states that -he expects
ithis unit of the building to be ready for use
by next September.

Construction of the middle unit will fol-
[tow this immediately, thus completing the
work that was begun about two years ago
and that will represent an outlay of about
$600,000 when finished.
| At the present time there is something
over $300,000 on hand with which to begin
the work. The entire amount which will be
needed will come to about $400,000, and the

(Continued on page 8)

Banner Elk Fund Grows
As Students Contribute

Pre-Christmas Contributions Aug-
mented by Recent Additions to
Fund for School

In the recent pledge drive among the stu-
dent body for funds for the Banner Elk
Mountain School, around nine hundred dot-
lars was raised. This money was pledged by
the students and is to be paid on or before
April 1st of this year. The goal set was
one thousand dollars, and nearly all this
amount has been pledged and in the final
collection of pledges which are yet unreturn-
ed it is estimated and hoped that the goal
will be reached.

James Appleby, the “Y” secretary, is con-
ducting a drive under his: personal super-
vision among the members of the faculty,
and enough money to make up the amount
needed to reach the final goal is expected
from this source. About one hundred and
sixty dollars of, the money pledged has al-
ready been paid in cash and many of the
pledges are’ being and will be paid up as
time goes on so. that it is' expected that
April 1st will find most or all of the money
already paid up.

In a recent letter to Jim Appleby, Edgar
Tufts, the former Davidson student who is
in charge of the Banner Elk work, express-
ed his thanks for the work already done
and stated his great faith in the students of
Davidson College to always liberally aid in
a cause of this kind and to continue the many
' good works which have been a feature of
the student body here in former years. He
explained more fully the ' use that the money
will be put. to, and. said there were, already
| many places that it could fill.

The fund is to be used for
‘in the Barner Elk Mountain Schoc
‘at Banner Elk, N. C. These sche
(are to consist of fifty dollars each,
| (Continued on. page 3) ;

