_ ‘THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 2, 1928

L

Personal

Dr. A. J. Crowell, of Charlotte, who is
an honorary alumnus of Davidson College,
has been elected president of the North
Carolina State Board of Health. He will
succeed the late Dr. Howell Way, ’12, of
Waynesville, N. C. Dr. C. C. Orr, ’o5, of
Asheville, is also a member of the board,
and Dr. W. S. Rankin, who atténded the
North Carolina Medical College when it
was located at Davidson, is a former pres-
ident of this organization.

Dr. C. F. Arrowood, ’00, who has been
assistant professor of Education at Rice
Institute, Houston, Texas, has resigned to
accept an appointment at the ‘University
of Texas as professor of History and Phil-
osophy of Education. Dr. Arrowood wl’
teach at Columbia University, in! New
York, during the summer months, and ex-
pects to visit Davidson next commence-
ment enroute to that point.

Rev. J. W. Weathers, Jr.,.’00, who has
been pastor of a.church near Chester, S.
C., for many years, has accepted a call to
Lexington, Va.

Dr. A. F, Tuttle, 02, of Spray, N. C., has!

been elected vice-president of the Imperial
Trust and Savings Co., of Leakesville.

Friends will regret to learn of the death
of J. A. Heilig, father of G.
of Rockwell, N. C.

Major FE. R. McKeithan; ‘oo, of Fay-
etteville, former state senator and major

P. Heilig, ’os, |

Alumni Council to Meet
Friday Evening To Talk

Over Financial Matters

Members of Council Will D’scuss
Plans for Wiping Out Deficit in
Alumni Funds

Members of the Alumni Council, executive
and governing board of the Davidson Col-
lege Alumni Association, will met at the col-
lege Friday evening at 7:30 o'clock for the
purpose of discussing certain projects and
problems now pending before the association.
Financial matters will be discussed in detail,
according to announcement from the head-
quarters of the Alumni Association on the
campus.

A report recently released by the Alumni
Secretary reveals a deficit in the treasury
of the Alumni office amounting to more
than four hundred dollars, with more than
five months still unprovided for. Only
$1,497 has been received from alumni in pay-
ment of annual dues, This amount coupled
with the appropriation made by the college
at the opening of coltege~ in” September
leaves the total income of the Alumni office
for the year more than four hundred dollars
less than the amount which has been neces-
sary for operating expenses.

An intensive effort is being made on the
part of Alumni officials to- secure a prompt
remittance of dues from the more than three
| thousand alumni who have failed to respond.
It is estimated that more than $2,500 will
have to be raised between now and June Ist
in order to provide funds for the continued
operation of the Alumni office.

ALUMNI MARRIAGES

! Mr. Roderick Kirkpatrick Shaw, Jr., '22.
was married to Miss Catherine Elizabeth
Bostick on the evening of January 18th, in
|an impressive ceremony performed at the
| Saint Paul’s Episcopal. Church, in Quincy,

Miss Bostick, the daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Henry Fuller Bostick, was a popular and at-
tractive member of the younger social con-
tingent of Quincy. After a wedding trip,
Mr. and Mrs. Shaw returned to Quincy,
where he and his bride will make their home.

Dr. and Mrs. William H. Shannon have
announced the marriage of their daughter,
Helen Amy, to Dr. Alexander Pierce Or-
mand, ’21, on Tuesday evening, January 17th,
at Coatesville, Pa. Dr, Ormand. is engaged
in the practice of medicine in Akron, Ohio,
where he and his brdie will make their home.

Mr. and Mrs. N. B. Mills, of States-
ville, father and mother of L. N. Mills,
"12, recently celebrated their golden wed-
ding anniversary.

Fla., the home of both the bride and groom.

Address List Sent To

All Alumni of College

Alumni Officials Seek Closer Fellow-,

ship Among Davidson
Graduates

The Alumni. office is endeavoring to de-
velop a closer feeling between the different
classes that have finished at Davidson, and
are also making an effort to develop a simi-
lar feeling between Davidson alumni in all
states of the union.
| To do this, the secretaries have been com
piling two types of lists—those of each.class,
jand. one for each state, sending a copy to
each individual member of the class, and to
every person in each state. :

Twelve state lists have been mailed out
recently, and within the past eight months 32
class lists have been prepared and sent to
alumni. The states for which lists have
allready been made are Alabama, Florida,
Kentucky, Maryland, Mississippi, New Jer-
sey, New York, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia,
| West Virginia, andthe District of Columbia.

+? ALUMNI: DEATHS

| News has just reached the Alumni Office
‘of the death of Mr. Zimri Monroe Faust,
|'63, who died at his home at 626 Broad
| Street, Burlington, N. C., on December 31st.
At the time of his death, Mr. Faust had
reached the advanced age of 92 years, and
| was one of the three oldest living Davidson
alumni. He left Davidson in 1861 to join
the Confederate army, and played a gallant
part in the War Between the States, return-
ing after Lee’s surrender to Burlington,
where he resided until his death in Decem-
ber.

News dispatches appearing in numerous
Carolina newspapers told of the sudden death
of Rev. M. R. Kirkpatrick, ’73, at Montreat
on the morning of January 24th. Rev. Mr.
Kirkpatrick, formerly of Seneca, S. C., had
held several important charges in the South-
ern Presbyterian Church, and for the past
two years was in charge of the South Caro-
lina Ministers’ Home at the Montreat As-
sembly grounds, He was 77 years of age.
Interment was at Seneca, S. C.

|

GE Fayettevitic, as been mentioned again | . The Council will also discuss the proposed |

as a candidate for the state senate from
the counties of Cumberland, Bladen,
Brunswick and Columbus.

Mr. and Mrs. Query Pharr, of Char-
lotte, announce the birth of a daughter,
on January 26, Mr. Pharr is a member of
‘the 1913 class.

Davidson Reporter
Enlightens Fresh

For the edification of those few fresh-
men who are slightly hazy as to just what
a cow is and those who have been led
astray by frequent glances at familiar
tobacco signs, the following treatise has
been written:

The cow is a female quadruped with an
alto voice and“a countenance in which
there is no guile. She collaborates with
the pump in the production of a liquid
called milk, provides the filler for hash
and at last is skinned by those she has
benefitted, as mortals generally are.

The young cow is called calf and is
used in the manufacture of chicken salad.

The cow’s tail is mounted aft and has a
universal joint. It is used to disturb
marauding flies, and the tassel on the end
has unique educational value. Persons
who milk cows and come often in con-

tact with the tassel have vocabularies of

publication of an Alumni Quarterly. It is
stated that bids have been received froma
number of publishing houses and that con-
tracts can be awarded and the magazine pub-

lished by March Ist, provided the Council |

approves the project.

Members of the Alumni Council include:
Dr. J. P. Matheson, '99, president; Dr. J. C.

Rowan, '04; Dr. Oren Moore, '08; F. L..

Jackson, '06; and Hugh A, Query, '09.

peculiar and impressive force.

The cow has two stomachs. The one |
on the ground floor is used as a ware- |
house and, has no other function. When |

one is filled the cow retires to a quiet |

place where her ill manners will occasion |
no comment and dgvotes herself to
belching. The raw material thus con-
veyed for the second time to the interior
of her face is pulverized and delivered to
the auxiliary stomach, where it is con-|
verted into cow.

The cow.has no upper plate. All of her
teeth are parked in the lower part of her
face. This arrangement was ‘perfected
by an efficiency expert to keep her from
gumming things up. As result she
bites up and gums down.

The male cow is call a bull and is las-
soed along the Colorado, fought south of
the Rio Grande and shot in the vicinity of
the Potomac.

A slice of cow is worth 8 cents in the
cow, 14 cents in the hands of the packers
and $2.40 in a restaurant in atmosphere.

a

We have at all times

New

7

et lewha ka TCH I
——— np
x ——————

TAKE YOUR CHOICE HERE!

New Orthophonic Victrolas

Brunswick. Panatropes

Victor and B

AComplete Line of RCA
Radios from $69.50 to $895.

Parker-Gardner Co.

a complete stock cf

and

Also

runswick Records
Records Every Friday

Distinguished by a favor that places it first

[r 1s a natural pride that Camel feels for
its triumphs. Not only did it lead the

field shortly after its

passed steadily on with each succeeding
year until today it holds a place in pub-
lic favor higher than any other smoke
ever reached. Camel is supreme with

modern smokers.
Obviously, there is

{iat particular smokers appreciate. It

introduction. It
Nature is aided

smoking hour.

a quality here mellowness are

is indeed the myriad qualities of per-
fection that are to be found in the
choicest tobaccos grown. And the art of

hy a blending that un-

folds each delicate taste and fragrance.
You will more than like Camels.
You will find a solace in them every

Their mildness and
an endless pleasure.

“Have a Camel!”

Qn. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. fs

© 1927
