Thursday, Septeinber 20, 1928.

THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

CAT TRAX

AS THEY FOLLOW THE
RED AND BLACK

By Zeb V. Long, Jr.

woke
od

Saturday—the big day—the opening
game of another season for the Wild-
cat eleven. No prophetic words from
the wig-wams of Younger and Tilson.
No glaring newspaper headlines about
another wonder team. No rash state-
ments as to the score of the initial
clash. Just this, red-shirted
sons of Davidson with fighting hearts
keyed up to the occasion, and back of
them, more than six hundred spirited
men, aflame with the ardor that wins.
Draw your own conclusions.

eleven

Little or nothing is known here as to
the strength, or lack of strength, over
at Guilford College, the Cats’ oppo-
nent on this weekend, Under a new
coach, Norman Shepherd, past star at
Davidson and Carolina, the Quakers
are expected to show new life. Two
years ago Monk's team triumphed by
a good score over the Guilfordians, but
not without a hard fight. So look for

“a scrap when Younger sends his hope-
fuls on the field.

Doctor Charlie will bé very much on
hand with all his charms and yvoodooes
to harass the visitors. What would.a
game be without the Doctor? No
better supporter of Davidson ever
buried a rabbit foot beneath the goal
posts. Some students would do well
to assimilate the pep and spirit the
one and only Charlie so consistently
shows.

Looks like the sophomore class will
largely represented in
clash.

be Saturday's
McCall, Goodykoontz, Mason,
David and Brock are sure to see action.
All of which is encouraging for the
team of next year. Nothing like start-
ing them early, David and Brock are
a couple of “hard rocks” on the flanks,
and when that pair start after oppos-
ing safety men, there is bound to be
something doing.

This old quality called “pep” does
more to win a football game than all
the talking in the world. Just get in
there from the start and yell like every
play depends on you. Put yourself in
the player’s shoes and imagine how it
would sound to you to hear the strains
of “Old Davidson” ringing in your
ears as you ran the plays. Pep is a
mighty big word. Make the most of
It.

Off to an early start, the freshmen
under Buck Miles, erstwhile star at
Virginia Poly, are driving along stead-
ily in preparation for their firbe game
with Oak Ridge. Material looks good.
Spirit is good. Coach is good. Watch
their smoke. This is one year that the
varsity will scrimmage the rats with
some trepidation, and it is a safe bet
that the cry so familiar—‘Fresh Meat”
—will not be uttered so frequently.

Following in the: steps of other lead-
ing institutions, Davidson has installed
a department of physical education. A
man well known and fully capable of
handling this, work has been secured,
Captain Norton G. Pritchett. In his
chapel talk, the Captain sounded a call
to arms, so to speak, and this column
wishes to heartily endorse his every
move, and to call upon the men of Da-
vidson to lend their co-operation,

Fall track practice is under way for
the first time in many years. Pritchett
is working his charges every afternoon.
An early start is sure to bring results
next spring. Davidson track should
present one of the best teams of the
year, since few men are missing from
last year’s squad, and the sophomore
material is encouraging.

House parites and football games go
well together. Therefore this week-
end bids fair to be very enjoyable. And
may Monk’s own Wildcats have the
best time of it all. A winning start is
worth a million. :

,

Movie lovers and history “studs” will
be disappointed to learn that the German
movie, Niebelungen, has been suppressed
because of the extreme cruelty which it
depicts. It is a story of the conquests of
Attila the Hun. It rose from an actual
‘occurrence. Ernst Czske, a Hungarian
shepherd, and his wife Viljna had a vision
of Attila pointing toward the Hungarian
table-lands, and saying, “Go search for
my treasure.” Consequently thousands of
Hungarian country folk have been scour-
ing the plains for vast wealth. The vision
has been repeated every night, and it must
be admitted, with different directions. But
what does it matter? Will not one of
them be correct? All of, which stresses
the need for universal education,

MONKMEN ENGAGE
GUILFORD QUAKERS
IN FIRST FRACAS

Football Season Ushered in With
Saturday’s Game—Gala
Occasion

REAL FIGHT FORESEEN

Team in Good Shape for Opening
Clash—Many New Faces to
to be Seen in Lineup

On Saturday Richardson Field will
experience the official opening of the
Davidson Wildcats’ 1928 football sea-
the “Monkmen” put their
prowess against Norman Sheppard's
scrapping little team from Guilford
College. .

The records show
contests Guilford never
foatball game from the
Wildcats. The last game in which the
two schools engaged, back in ‘26, end-
ed disastrously indeed for the visitors
as the “Cats” piled-up touchdown aft-
er touchdown to rout the visitors to
the smart tune of 26 too. Since that
fatal day Guilford has been somewhat
wary about locking horns with David-
son teams. But time heals the wounds
of former defeats, and these two meet
once more,

This year Davidson confronted
with a problem in gridiron warfare
the like of which she has never before
encountered since she has been put-
ting out football teams. Only three of
last year’s letter men have returned—
Baker, Riggs McConnell, and Tut Me-
Connell. However, things are not so
gloomy as they would appear to be at
first glance. Some of the men from
last year’s Freshman team are show-
ing up well and with the addition of
some strong contenders for the 1927
team from the upper classes, coaches
Younger and Tlison are prepared to
place a well-balanced the
field,

Two weeks of stiff practice have not
been in vain, and Saturday will see
the Cats take the field in perfect shape
except for a few minor injuries.
Proctor, an end, suffered an injured
leg a week ago, but his limb is rapid-
ly improving, and he will likely see
service. Thursday and Friday will be
light days for the team, most of the
time being taken up with signal prac-
tice and final advice from the coaches,
Davidson and Guilford, with this
game, pry off the lid of the’ North
Carolina football season. A large
crowd is expected to fill the stands,
and ample preparation is being made to
take care of these ‘fans. Student in-
terest is at a high pitch. Everything
points to a gala day.

The probable lineup of the Wildcats
is as follows:

Left end, Brock; right end, David;
left tackle, Baker; right tackle, Mc-
connell; left guard, Parker; right
guard, Smith; center, Mason or Mc-
Connell; quarterback, McMillan; left
half, Kell; right half, Flinn, fullback,
Black.

son when

that in previous
taken a
Davidson

has

is

eleven on

Al (presiding at a convention) :
now I've got a surprise for you.
Zest is going to speak to us.”
Voice: ‘That's no surprise.
in the paper this morning.”

Al: “My mistake. I didn’t think you
could read,”’

Much credit must go to Mr. McEvoy
for being the first to recognize a new
phase of American humor, and one which
must certainly play an important part.

“Boys,
Teddy

I read it

Admirers of the magician and conjurer
cannot refrain from wondering at the In-
dian fakir. With no stage paraphernalia,
screens or settings, he does truly remark-
able things. Reliable onlookers have tes-
tified to seeing small boys. placed in bas-
kets, and knives dripping with blodd after
being thrust through all portions of the
basket in question. One fakir climbed a
string and came back with the boy’s head
in his hand. In each case the boys reap-
peared sound and whole. Two English
explorers took a moving picture of one
of these juggling tricks. When it was
developed there was NO PICTURE.
Please explain. 2

|

How many people know that Gray’s
“Elegy” took seven years of hard, per-
sistent labor? Or that General Lyle wrote
that delightful composition, “Antony and
Cleopatra” the night before he died. The
opening line of it is, “I am dying, Egypt,
dying.” Perhaps more strange was_the
fact that Samuel Woodworth produced
“Old Oaken Bucket” after a night of hard
drinking in a barroom. Yet how many
of this column’s readers have attempted
to write an acceptable theme in fifteen
minutes ?

NEW MENTORS ON;NEW SCHEDULE
CAMPUS HAS TEN GAMES

Pritchett and Miles Assume The Davidson schedule this year in- |
Duties—Both Men of Wide

cludes ten encounterson more than |
| gk oy
Experience in 1927. Guilford College was added to |

|
_ NO LEADER FOR '| Back Those Cats Sat-

CAT TEAM
ot Hack to. Aéiwme| Sr ee eee
McColgan Not Back to As: Win If You Do

Captaincy of Football Eleven

|

!the card, and Clemson was substituted |

aes ~ for the University of Florida, which! The failure of W. L. McColgan to |
Davidson College has added two new

are the only two changes made. Four | return to school this year leaves the |
games will be played at Davidson,; Wildcat Eleven without a captain for
three others in North Carolina, while! the first time in recent history. Me-
only three out-of-state engagements | Colgan, a guard, was elected to the
will be played. The complete schedule | leadership of this year’s team, and was
}expected to be a tower of strength in
a somewhat weak line. It now seems |
jentirely probable that no permanent
|captain will be chosen, but that
leader will be picked for each game,
thus placing responsibility on no one
man,

men to her coaching staff since last
year.

V. E. “Buck” Miles, a graduate of
V. P. 1, will take charge of the fresh-
men during the football In
addition to his duties as coach of the
Davidson “yearlings,” he will shave
charge of the varsity wrestlers, and
then in the spring take charge of the
spring football training.

STOP!

From the Show at

WILDCAT CAFE

DAVIDSON, N. C.

season. e
bas follows:

Sept. 22—Guilford at Davidson.
Sept. 29—Clemson at Clemson, S. C.
Oct. 6—Elon at Davidson.

a

HOME COOKED FOOD
OPEN TILL 11 P. M.

created at Davidson College, will, in
collaboration with Tilson, also coach
varsity track.

“Buck” Miles completed his course
in electrical engineering this past year.
He was one of the most prominent

Four letter men are back, and should

/a captain be elected, he will come from

* ntne o y a) ae ava ne 1 = ics
athletes that V. P. I. has ever produced. Captain Pritchett has been connected | these men, Riggs McConnell, Tut Me-

Elected captain of the football team,

with the Woodbury Forest’ School, in| Connell, Baker, and Hewlette.
Orange, Va., for some time past. At)
this place, Captain Pritchett, besides |

he was further honored by being
named as tackle on the All-South At-
lantic team,

Fresh

Miles was captain of the

i ie rey FARA ia | : _W, at Davidson. V
; : eT rin being a professor of English, was di Oct. 13—Wofford at I
Wisruite tear an Hie Ju Oy etre rector of Physical Education. As! Oct. 20—The Citadel at Charleston, Country egetables
Binns? Np unease Heese team.) track coach, Pritchett has had consid- S. C. STAPLE AND FANCY
Sees RCGONG UL Ue Nea vena ent erable success,:and he is considered by } < ra
class at the Southern Conference ri site 4 “pret wel Oct, 27—Wake Forest in Charlotte. GROCERIES
many. to be one of the finest trac ek , y tor ,,
Tournament. ; : : Nov. 3—V. M. I. at Lexington, Va. :
The other man is Capt. N. G. Prit or ICS ALM EC tok a eet | Nov. 10—N. C. State at Greensboro. Shoes, Hosiery and Slickers
Fate c é Ss é . WN, . rat- »vera is » ave take ar y ~ . ‘
aia | : Several of his men have taken part i Nov; ge us Garcia: at. Davidion

the Olympic games, Captain Pritchett |
also was boxing coach and an assist-

BARNETT and COMPANY

5 ; i (Homecoming).
Captain Pritchett who has come to

us to have charge of the department] ant on the football field while at| Nov. 29—Duke at Durham (Thanks- DAVIDSON, N. C.
of Physical Culture, but recently | Wodbury Forest. sgiving).
’
David Theatre |} D Soda
| s
Monday, September 24th Thursday, September 27th M a k e O ur S tore Y our S tore
; 5 WH ¢ ; 0 y y
Greta Nissen Ste Gurroll
in ;
“Faril” haces ibn ae ; :
See this one sure! ‘Win That Girl It is our desire to serve you at all times with ee
: . best. We carry a complete stock of school supplies
Tuesday, September 25th Friday, September 28th and other prt sundaes,
Majorie Beebe Buster, Keaton :
in in We serve at our fountain only the best.
“None But the Brave” “The Cameraman” :
. We are always glad to favor you in any way we can.
Wednesday, September 26th Saturday, September 29th
William Haines Victor McLaglin
in Ii . S
“Excess Baggage” “The River Pirate WH I T E D R U ¢ C O M P A N Y
COMING PICTURES IN OCT.
Two Lovers King of rot Pret tah : ‘ .
The T. t While Cit leeps edding Marc Cc d S h l S l
ke Ge Foun sene andaies Cnoo upp 1€S

B resenting sie

ARLIE CHAPLIN
in the blindfold cigarette test

Famous star selects OLD GOL

“One cigarette of the four I
smoked in the blindfold test
was like shooting a scene suc-
cessfully after a whole series of
failures. It just ‘clicked’ and I
named it as my choice. It was
Op Gotp. Which clears up a
mystery, for the supply of Op
Gotps in my Beverly Hills
home is constantly being de-
pleted. It seems that Strong-
heart and Rin-tin-tin are the
only motion picture stars who
don’t smoke them.”

3 RSS

CHARLIE CHAPLIN
+ «- movie favorite the world over,

in one of his best-loved pictures
—"'The Circus.”

MR. CHAPLIN was asked to emoke each of the four leading
brands, clearing his taste with coffee between smokes. Only
one question was asked: “Which one do you like the best?”

How does OLD GOLD do it?

What's the secret of OLD GOLD'S winning charm? /eaves, rich in cool and fragrant smoking qualities.
The answer is very simple. Three types of leaves These golden-ripe heart-leaves five OLD GOLDs
Grow on the tobacoo plant . . . coarse, heavy fop- their honey- like smoothness. That's why so many
leaves, irritating to the throat /. . withered gressd- people choose them. And that’s why you too can
leaves, without taste or aroma. -. and the Aeart- pick them... even in the dark.

“NOT A COUGH IN A CARLOAD”

Made from the heart-leaves
of the tobacco plant

SMOOTHER AND BETTER-

& * i
