u

2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 9, 1928

LACY AND WEISIGER

(Continued from page one)
tion, the Union Theological Seminary quar-
tet will accompany Dr. Lacy and sing at thé
Wednesday night meeting. Dr. Lacy and the
quartet are due to arrive in Davidson in
time for him to preach Sunday morning in
the church. They will remain on the campus
until the meeting on Wednesday night, the
15th. Dr. Lacy will cover the entire field of

es =
=

Week End Guests

ferent fraternities last week-end. for the |

he'd lasteFriday and Saturday:
Pi Kappa Phi: Eva Hackney and Lu-!

CONSTRUCTION TO START

(Continued from page 1)
The northern wing, on which construction

will be begun at once, will provide laboratory... } ; ;
The following were visitors at the dif-| and class-room facilities for all sciences in- | Gardner, who come from Union Seminary

cluded in the Davidson curriculum, with the

a building of its own adjacent to the site of
the new memorial structure. Blythe and

Ministry in his address, but the interviews | ille Hassell, Salem, N. S.; Lib Darling, | Isenhour, Charlotte contractors, will build

will be divided into the four fields of Home
and Foreign Missions, and the country and
city pastor, and will be held nightly from
7 :30 to 9:30.

For the possible edification of the few
who are not familiar with the name Ben
Lacy, he is now the president of Union
excellent seminaries. Before this Dr. Lacy
Theological Seminary, one of the South’s
was a pastor in the Central Presbyterian
Church of Atlanta, Ga. He was a fighting
parson in the World War. He has been on
the Home Mission field. And of interest to
students, he is @ farmer student of David-
son. Therefore Dr. Lacy is especially well
adapted to this type of work, and will be
able to do the maximum of good in the way
of assistance and guiding aid, in the short

time alloted to this particular vocation
Ministry.
Since interviews are to be the central

thing in the whole Vocational Guidance In-
stitute, there will be numerous types of in-
terviews and several interviewers in addition
to the Seminary quartet and Dr. Lacy. Dr.
Rowan, of Concord, and Dr. Raynal, of
Statesville, are among several who are due
to be here. Quite a number of Charlotte
ministers of yarious denominations have of-
fered their aid in the way of interviews in
Charlotte, not being able to come over to
Davidson.

When we think of track we feel that we
really have ‘something to look forward to
since the return of the cinder path captain.
Things looked pretty gloomy for this sport
for a while, but now there are certain events
which we can count on winning in every
meet. We don’t know what the baseball
team will do this year or what the freshmen
will uncover in the way of track and base-
ball material, but the outlook is fairly bright
nevertheless. cee

CARD OF THANKS

We wish to express our deepest ap-
preciation to our friends in Davidson and
other places for the many manifestations
of their sympathy and love during the re-
cent illness and decease of our dear
father,

Miss Louise Cowan
Mrs. G. C. Gibson. Mrs. J. M. Barnette,

“ For

Heating and Plumbing

Contractor of
Rare Excellence

See

Elliott & Byers

Phone 78-W

Greensboro, N. C.; Katherine Bowers, |

Converse; Katherine Ward, Charlotte.

S. A. E.: Beryl Jones, Durham, Techlar
Matson, Rockdale Prince, Mimi Belle,
Converse; Julia Russell, Judith Hill, Win-
throp; Mary Mills Holms, Mary Louise
Wadsworth, Charlotte; Margaret Baker,
Vera Webb Oates, Hollins; Anne Can-
non, Concord; Eugenea McLean, Lumber-
ton; Cynthia Bagley, N. C. C. W.; Elean-
or McKinnon, Hartsville, S. C.; Kather-
ine Whitener, High Point; Frances Mc-
Cormick, Laurinburg.

|

Pyramid: Louise Harry, Salisbury; |
Anna Hyde, Charleston, S. C.; Frances
Thompson, Pittsboro; Charlotte Guy,
Martha Gardner, Charlotte.

Delta Theta Chi: Dorothy Hendon,
Elizabeth Hendon, Evelyn Jackson, Ashe-
ville; Mary Brandt, N. C. C. W.; Tootsie
Howard, Winthrop; Mary Moore Mont-
gomery, Queens; Douglas Rankin, Char-
lotte; Mary McNinch, Queens; Sarah
Bowen, Bluefield, W. Va.

Pi Kappa Alpha: Hazel Townsend,
Edna York, Georgia. Townsend, Win-
throp; Mary McLaurin, “Dit” Quarles,
Charlotte; Tommy Hollis, Greensboro;
Nancy Shute, Converse,

T. U. O.: Julia Josephs, Evelyn Jo-
sephs, Maude Spencer, Helen Berry,
Charlotte; Ruth Lowrance, Statesville:
Larry Hornthal, Norfolk, Va.; Julia Me-
Kinney, Lois Smith, Salisbury; Bebe |
Stancill, Louise Garibaldi, Mary Harding. |
Miss Mitchell, Charlotte,

Beta Theta Pi: Edna Carson, Minerva.
Wylie, Winthrop; Mary Sheppard Gray,

Frances Lineberger, Hollins: Isabelle
Dunn, Salem; Alice McLean, Peace;
Penelope Cannon, Concord; Virginia

Reed; Converse; Annie Gray Johnson,
Tarboro; Grayce McCracken, N. C. C.
W.; Elizabeth Simpson, Greensboro.

Ge

t
t

Mrs. Hengeveld Injured
in Automobile Accident

Wife of Registrar Loses Control of

}the northern unit.

including dynamos, motors,

Contracts for the con-
struction of the central section will be award-
ed as soon as sufficient, funds have been
received.

Plans submitted by Henry C. Hibbs, Nash-
ville architect and designer of the new
building, provide general laboratories, lec-
ture rooms, individual research laboratories,
libraries and faculty offices for each of the
sciences of physics, geology and_ biology.
Thesé will all be located in the northern
wing.

The first floor and basement of the north-

;ern wing will be given over to the physics

department of the college, whose valuable
scientific apparatus has been temporarily
housed in a wooden struceure since the de-
struction of the old building in 1921. Spe-
cial arrangements have been made to pro-
vide for the installation of heavy machinery,
transformers and
radio equipment, used by this department in

its laboratory studies.

Great enthusiasm has been manifested by

students and professors in the science de-
partments of the college as a result of the
announcement that space has been set aside in | N
the northern wing for a scientific museum, to |
contain valuable scientific models, minerals,
and specimens collected by members of the |
science faculty. Valuable curios, documents, |
and scientificsrelics were destroyed with the |
burning of the old building, and special em- |
phasis has been placed on the fire-proof con- | Zealey, Carolina, with time advantage of 3
Struction of the new plant.

The museum, which is to occupy the en-

his level, space being equally divided among
he courses of general biology, botany, em-

bryology and histology.

To the costly scientific equipment already

owned by the college, it is believed, will be
added other apparatus for which’ space has
been lacking up to this time.
and water connections, together with new
laboratory tables and lecture room furniture,
will be installed in the scientific halls.

Electric, gas

The central wing of the new building,

Car as She and Small Daughter
Receive Minor Bruises

Mrs. Fred Hengeveld, and her five-
year-old daughter, Virginia, escaped se-
rious injury from an automobile acci-
dent in Davidson on the afternoon of Wed-
nesday, February 1, Mrs. Hengeveld was
driving her Hudson sedan,.on Concord
street, when she lost control in her ef-
forts to choke the car. The choker was
working with difficulty, and Mrs. Henge-
veld in order to prime the car, which was
not running well, took both hands from
the steering wheel. At the same time she
suffered a light fainting spell, and al-
though both the brake and clutch were
flat with the floorboards, the car swerv-
ed, running into two telephone poles, cut-
ting them at their base. The poles fell
heavily across the top of the machine.
The car was not travelling a very rapid
rate of speed or the accident may have

Ramon Navarro in

Harry Langdon

Davidson Theatre

MONDAY

'TUESDAY
Good Time Charlie

WEDNESDAY ~-

THURSDAY
Joan Crawford in Rose Marie

FRIDAY ‘

Norma Shearer in The Latest from Paris
SATURDAY |

Rin-Tin-Tin in The Dog of the Regiment

The Student Prince

in The Cleaver

|

construction of which is being postponed un-
til after the meeting of the board of trustees
and until additional funds have been secured,
will contain an auditorium capable of seating

more than 1,200 persons, and providing facil-

ities for college exercises of every type.

A stage, 25 feet by 66 feet in size; will be
be equipped with electrical and scenic devices
calculated to encourage the dramatic and
musical talents of the students. Space is be-
ing set aside for an organ room, in which ‘it
is hoped an organ and chimes will be in-
stalled. _ Dressing rooms, equipped with
every convenience, will be located near the
stage. :

Directly below the auditorium, and on a/

level with the entrance of the building, will
be a large banquet hall with adjoining
kitchens, to be used for various social func-
tions of the college. Just to the right of
the auditorium a large room is to be set
aside for use of the trustees and faculty in
their meetings.

An imposing dome, occupying the top of
the central unit, will be constructed so as to
provide a special club room, appropriately
furnished. The entrance to the new build-
ing will be supported by six stone pillars,
surmounted by a design of the college seal
and other sculptured effects.

The lawns surrounding the new building
will be terraced, and planted in new grass
and shrubbery. Tennis courts which at the
present time occupy that portion of the
campus directly alongside the south wing of
the building, will be moved to a new location
at the rear of the campus, where 14 new
courts are now under construction.

“Y” Column

As mentioned before, the leaders at Y
this week will be Bill Cochran and Bill

|to take charge of the vespers and also to

Pan-Hellenic entertainments which were | exception of chemistry, which is confined to! talk to fellows who are considering going

into the ministry. These two were both
leaders while in college, and are fine ex-
amples of workers for the Master. With
'them will be Dr. Lacy, who will also re-
main here for several days, to especially
|interview any seniors who may be in-
/tending to go into the Seminary. Let’s
' bring the attendance average” up this
| week, and give these leaders a good hear-
| ing.

| on eras

| Vocational Guidance will start this Mon-
day, and will at first be under the direc-
|tion of Mr. Weisiger, personnel director
|of the Southern Bell Telephone Co. He
| will speak at chapel on Monday, and will
explain the main ideas regarding Voca-
| tional Guidance, and discuss it so as to in-
| form the student body as to the institute
land its workings. He will-be here for
|one or two days, to talk to men who may
| be interested in considering lining up with
| the Southern Bell people, and will also be
| very glad to talk to anyone on problems
|of vocational guidance that might be
| bothering them. A fuller article on the
| Vocational Guidance Institute will be
| found elsewhere in this issue, so look for
that if you desire further information.
; News will be given later as to the other
| divisions of the Institute.

HARD-FOUGHT MATCH
(Continued from page 1)

| minutes, 3 seconds.

| 135 Ib. class—Thompson, Carolina, won

tire front portion of the second floor of the | over Herriott, Davidson, with a time aévan-
northern wing, will be flanked by general | tage of 1 minutes, 22 seconds.

and individual laboratories, libraries and lec
ture rooms for the use of the department of
geology. On the third floor will be placed
the laboratories and class rooms for biology.
There will be three sets of laboratories on

145 Ib. class—Garrison, of Davidson, and
Abbott, of Carolina, fought to a draw.
158 Ib. class—Christenbury, Davidson, won
over Moore, Carolina,! with time advantage
of 2 minutes, 53 seconds.
175 1b. class—Hill, Davidson, won over
Houghton, Carolina, with a time advantage
of 45 seconds.
Unlimited class—Twyford, Carolina, won
over Baker, Davidson, with time advantage
of 2 minutes, 46 seconds.

BASKETEERS DEFEAT

(Continued from page 1)

upsetting the ’Cats. Some fancy shooting
by Bennie McAuley, and the splendid de-
fensive play of Captain Wilson and Harrison
enabled Davidson to stave off the closing
threat of the Elonites and stow away a rip-
roaring basketball game. At four different
times during the evening the score was tied
and it was a fight all the way for a lead of
even two points. Wilson played one of the

best defensive games of his worthy career,

and his lanky form was in the thick of ey-
ery play. He was ably abetted by Charlie
Harrison, in guard duty. Newman, the left-
handed star of Elon, was a constant threat
to the Wildcat hopes, this forward chalking
up 14 points for high-point honors of the
contest. Referee Rawson began to call fouls
right and left in the closing minutes of play,
and the game more than once depended on
making one of these foul shots good. It
was in the last 30 seconds that Kugler
dropped one in and put the game safely away.

Summary of the two games:

Elon (37) Pos. Davidson (40)
Walker (8). 2.2522 2easucs McAuley (12)
Forward
Newman (14) ------.--.-. Pritchett (10)
Forward
Siitis "(6)" ccc ees Wilson (13)
Center
Gritehfheld 2. seozeeeekssee Harrison (2)
Guard
Briges: (2) sce seeee ee Hewlette (1)
Guard

Subs—Elon: Hamrick (7); Davidson:

Kugler (2). Referee: Rawson (Georgia).

Davidson (53) Pos. Wofford (31)

McAtley 9 (2) covosseosscseece Bagwell
_ Forward

Pritchett: (15) esseeseeecese Lockman (14)
Forward

Wilson (13) scsecsduseesess Sheler (10)
Center

Harrison: (8): see eee ss Dargan
Guard

Hewlétte- sss 32 soe ous Adams (1)
Guard

Subs—Davidson: Kugler (5); Johnson,

and Baker; Wofford: Brown (6), Turner,
and McLeod. Referee: Rawson (Georgia).

VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE

tire field of that vocation and to help men in
any way possible to choose.

More specifically, in the words of the
chairman of the committee: “The Voca-
tional Guidance Institute is created in the
interest of the student body to each member
| of which will be given an opportunity such
as comes to few men.”

PROF. VOWLES’ TEXTBOOK

(Continued from page 1)
ceptance as a suitable textbook for college
work, and it is expected that it will come
into general use before very long.

JUNIOR ORATORS

W. K. Pritchett, chairman of the
Junior Oratorical Committee, re-
quests that all those men wishing
to compete in the Junior Oratori-
cals, which are to be held during
Junior Speaking, taking place some
time in the latter part of the month
of April, will turn their names in to
him at 110 West, by February 13.
Preliminaries will likely be held in
March.

>

Cf

w

HATS
SWEATERS

EVENING DRE

Feb. 10 and 11

had more serious consequences,

Mrs. Hengeveld estaped with slight
bruises and a nervous shock, but the
little girl recoived a heavy blow on the
forehead, and was badly shaken up. After
Medical attention, though, she was re-
moved from immediate danger, and is
improving rapidly.

The accident ocdurred in mid-after-
noon, and attracted quite a number of
Mr.
Hengeveld was hurried to the scene and

witnesses among the townspeople.

5

attended the injured.

CLOTHES
SHOES

TIES

Showing at
Miss Minnie’s

James S. Branch, Rep.

SUITS AND TOPCOATS

FORTY-FIVE DOLLARS
AND MORE
TAILORED TO MEASURE

CAPS
HOSIERY

SS ACCESSORIES

Friday and Saturday

