4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 10, 1928

=—

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collégiate Prose ~
Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘1S
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published, Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of
the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles fr, eee tae must be | the Recidle eae
. m. Monday. -
ceived trom an unknown eburos will nok be published.

AUBREY N. BROWN, JR. ---
M. P. CRAWFORD ......-..--

..---.---Editor-in-Chief
.----Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

FP, DoOMILGB Rees GA aed etd Managing Editor
Cc. M 1 td tage ‘ me Managing Editor
RR SIARRA TI Geiss se eee oes -Managing Editor
Z. Vz. NG a aes Editor
V. A. MILTON -..--. ase ews Editor
Oy -Rimlsn is panetachuascuatussapocscnaccceaeck Associate Editor
MORIARTY ~_..-222-- 2222. .-.-Associate Editor

. K. PRITCHETT Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

R. S. ABERNETHY......_...- Assistant Business Manager
8. J. ALLISON................. Assistant Business Manager
W. M. POWELL............... Assistant Business Manager
P. wy GARRISON 2, nn. cncosucncusncscess Subscription Manager
B. W. DICKSON. Circulation Manager
S$. W. MORRIS. Solicitor
W. B. McGUIRE Solicitor
E. H. McCALL y -----Solicitor
REPORTERS’ CLUB '
4 L. ELY .. ----President
SW MODERMID: .ouuclucclcl Liss oo ose Vice-President

B.S HER RNER 2 oo. isos Secretary-Treasurer

P. R. ALDERMAN } V. MIDDLETON

D. P. ANDERSON . T, NUNAN

S. R. COKER 4% PRESTON

C. H. DUBOSE . C. RAGIN

A. FRE D. RUSK

P. B. FRY Cc. A. SISSON

} R. GRAHAM . D. T. STOKES

. W. KIRKPATRICK W._R. WEAVER
S. H. LONG Ss. S. LEY
. P,. McBRYDE

DEAN RUSK .---N..C. C. P. Reporter

SAM WILEY . C. C. P. Reporter

EDITORIAL

TO MOTHER

If I could return to my mother
A gift for her kindness to me,
For sacrifice, love, and devotion,
For the things she has taught me to be,
For the pictures which hang on memory’s wall
Which she paints with motherly care,
For the heavenly chords of love and life
Which she sang that I might hear.
I'd ask the stars for their twinkle,
The birds for their happy, sweet song,
I'd gather the fragrance and blush. of the rose
And the first bright tints of the dawn,’
I'd ask a smile from an angel,
A strain from the choir above.
I'd. tie them up with affection’s. cords
And present them to her with my love.
—Nancy Hood Reed.

— .

REFUTATION

Appearing in the Open Forum column of
this issue is a communication from the pres-
ident of the Senior Class which contains cer-
tain charges as to the honesty and integrity
of this journal which can heradly go un-
answered.

Whatever his opinion may be as to the
“Concerning Gifts” editorial, anyone may
see that there are two sides to the question
which he himself terms “controversial.” The
proposal did not pass with the unanimous
vote of the Senior Class and so a number of
others seem to be of like opinion as the
writer. Mr. Withers makes the very serious

. charge that the editor did not adhere to fact
in his editorial, but if that be thé case, one
of the leading members of his class,-: who
was present all meetings at which the mat-
ter was discussed and was closely connected
with those who favored the movement, did
not adhere to fact in his statement of the
Situation, This is not an attempt to dodge
responsibility but merely to state the source
of information. The writer of the letter
does not cite an instance in which there was
untruth but merely makes the statement
that such existed. We fail to see it.

_As to the charges concerning the new ar-
ticle—that it contained “certain statements
disguised as facts”—we challenge anyone to
prove that any statement in that story is a
disguised fact. That “the alternate plan of
using the money for the class gift for the
purpose of aiding students already in school,
had been refused by the college authorities”
1s a true statement, whatever the reason
may have been. It is at this point that Mr.
Withers says there is untruth in the article.
It was explained in thé editorial previously
mentioned that the reason for the refusal of
the ett was due to “college regulations as
to tl € pyorro! of the awarding of scholar-

is true that the proposal was refused

the news story. One may place any further
interpretation on this statement that may be
wished but that is all that was said.

money already in their treasury, some hun-
dred and twenty dollars, for.the purpose of
the maintenance of the Wildcats” and not to
make a class gift is true. . : :
Whatever of untruth there might be in
the article would of a certainty have to be
read into it, for there is no statement, sug-
gested or implied, that can be so interpreted.
As to the authority for the contents of the
news story, the reporter who wrote the ar-
ticle did not see Mr. Withers at any time be-
caused he deemed it possible, and entirely

probable, that any member o fthe class who
attended the meeting would be informed suf-
ficiently to give the necessary information.
This reporter was not the one referred to in
the letter as another received the assign-
ment. The account of the meeting was ob-
tained from one senior who attended the
meeting and, in order that the article might
be verified, the reporter submitted the story
in its final form to another member of the
same class who pronounced it as fact in
every particular.

Concerning “the expressed wishes of oth-
ers,” the writer cannot see any justification
for the request that the story should have
been withheld. The reporter’s assignment
called for an account of the refusal of the
Senior gift and nothing more, and why Mr
Withers could not make this statement is
not evident. For, in his own letter, he says
in one instance that he feared lest a “mis-
understanding would arise and an impres-
sion of discord between the Seniors aid the
College Administration would be created,”
He also states that “both parties concerned
in this issue were in perfect harmony.”
There seems to be little that. would justify
his refusal to release the facts to the report-
er who first saw him. The story was news
and therefore of interest to the student
body; it was somewhat out of the ordinary
for Davidson happenings and therefore of
greater interest, and, as this journal tries
to be a newspaper, however difficult that
may be, it was thought best to publish the
fact that the Senior gift had not been ac-
cepted by the Administration.

The foregoing explanation obviates any
further discussion of the charges which are
made by the writer of the letter and it shows
that The Davidsonian does have a “regard
for the wishes of others” when it can be
shown that there is some fair reason back
of the request; that this paper does have a
“respect for harmony between students and
Administration,” because there is nc pos-
sibile interpretation of the situation that
would not show, in Mr. Withers’? own words,
the “perfect harmony” between the two
parties, and therefore, in printing a truthful
account of the affair this paper did not vio-
late, in an manner, any code of justice or
truth. Finally, as the truth of the story as
it was printed cannot be denied in any par-
ticular, it is evident that no great error, as
is alleged, was made by this paper in pre-
senting to its readers a matter of fact and a
matter of interest before it was so aged that

it snews value would have been absolutely
nil, :

SCHOLARSHIPS

In discussion among a number of men
concerning the assistance or lack of assist-
ance of athletes recently, statements were
made as facts by two different groups that
were in direct opposition to each other.

One statement was that Davidson College
gives scholarships to men simply because
of their ability as athletes. The other affir-
mation was that because a man participates
in any form of athletics, he is utterly unahle
to obtain a scholarship or other financial as-
sistance from the College. It was said fur-
ther, that even though a man had been
awarded a scholarship when he was not a
“candidate for any team, this scholarship was
withdrawn when he became a participant in
some College sport. °

These declarations seemed so out of ac-
card with the policy of this College that the
writer determined to investigate the situa-
tion and to obtain a statement from the Ad-
ministration as to its attitude in regard to
this matter, |

The following ‘statement is from F. W.
Hengeveld, registrar:

“The College ‘has a limited number of
scholarships, practically all of "which sa
awarded and restricted to Freshmen. These
scholarships have been founded

working their way to a higher education.
“To be awarded one of these scholarships
applicant raust
assistance, his scholastic record must show
 Seeroet seed Ge eas
mus soun iis of these
three items scholarships are awarded. The

| that is certainly all that was stated in’

necessary
~ G

office of the Registrar collects all

show a financial need for

|. Further, that “.the.class-voted.to.use-the..} |...

.

does not enter into the d

Open Forum |

To the Editor of The Davidsonian:

Your paper of last Thursday contained two ar-
ticles, the contents of which startled me greatly.
I refer to the alleged news story headed “Authori-
ties Refuse Senior Scholarship” and the editorial
captioned “Concerning Gifts.” I have stated to
you, several mistakes were made, I do not say in-
tentionally, which certainly place your journal and
the Senior class in a bad light. :

I can not argue with you on the point of wis-
dom in writing an editorial on this subject, because
you have a traditional right to place your opinion
on Page Four. However, I believe that your policy
would excite more admiration when you adhere
more closely:to the facts especially when the topic
of your comment is as controversial as the pres-
ent one happens to be. Personally I consider your
act “bad form,” but that item does not necessarily
enter this discussion. ee

The place where I take most violent exception to
your esteemed paper, however, is not found upon
the Editorial page, but on the “news story” to
which I referred above. The gentlemen who wrote
the article seems to be possessed with more imag-
ination and vocabulary than he is with informa-
tion or integrity. A Davidsonian reporter came to
me and asked for information about the class gift,
saying that he understood that our proposal had
been refused by the faculty, but as the class had

not acted on the matter of Dr. Martin’s letter, 1 °

gave your representative no information. The
following morning, after the class meeting when
we decided upon our present course of action, the
same reporter asked for the result of the meeting.
I requested, on account of the nature of the situa-
tion, and because I thought an article in th» col-
lege paper unwise and unwarrauted for several
reasons, chief among which was that misundcr-
standing would arise and an impression of discord
between the Seniors and the College Administra-
tion would be created, that no story be carried on
this matter. That was my request. And so you
can imagine my surprise when the Davidsonian
appeared carrying certain statements disguised as
facts.

First, the proposal of the class was refused on
technical grounds only, I had received a letter
from Dr. Martin, who wrote by order of the Ex-
ecutive Committee, saying that all funds given to
the college myst be administered by the Finance
Committe of the Board of Trustees in regard to

care and investment and that “all scholarship fund _

income shall be allotted by the President of the
College under the direction of the Faculty” There-
fore, our fund could not be handled by a special
committee. The money was refused upon this
ground.

And too, both parties concerned in this issue
were in perfect harmony as this same letter sug-
gested that the class raise the fund as originally
planned, present it to the college without any
restriction, with the assurance that it would be
handled carefully. This the class believed but de-
cided not to make a class gift. /

And so you see, Mr. Editor, that at least one
member of your staff has not only no regard for
the expressed wishes of others, but also has dis-
torted the facts of the rather complex affair until
the result is not similar in the least to the truth.
From what source the reporter received his infor-
mation I do not know nor do I care, but I want
you and the Student Body to know the correct
facts and to realize, once more the value of always
adhering closely to the facts.

If it was your desire to save the “Davidson
honor,” you have done nothing to further your
cause. I sincerely believe that more unfavorable
publicity has been givemthe College by your paper
in the two articles of last week’s issue than in any
other ‘possible way. No doubt you differ with me,
but that is to be expected as you have shown that
your paper has no regard for the wishes of others,
has no respect for harmony between students and
Administration and furthermore is ‘capable of go-
ing to extreme measures to secure certain state-
ments which it is unable—if one is to judge by the
present situation—to back up with facts.

I shall be glad to have this published in your
Open Forum column for reasons that are obvious.

CALDWELL WITHERS,
President, 1928.

Minnesota’s band will perhaps be the first uni-
versity, band to have an all-moustache personnel.

It will also be the first all-moustache band to tour
Europe.

Motion pictures of entering students are taken at
Detroit in order to aid in character analysis.

data for the presentation of the

aid to the Faculty Committee. Athletic abil-
ity or the lack of it does not enter into the
given to the committee. : Never,

been

information

so far as we has a

mittee either for or :
“This policy is also

t for

COSMIC CHAOS

When the New York City Railways, Inc., raised
their fare to seven cents, the stock gained about
fifteen points. A leading editorial writer asserted
that, ‘New York makes more fuss over a penny
than a million dollars.” Perhaps it is so. The
fight has been waged for months in the Supreme
Court; the magnates win; the public pays, pays to
the extent of ten million dollars, for in 1927 the
company carried approximately five million pas-
sengers.

<—_
News comes from France that’ Devi Shermista,
formerly Miss*Nancy Miller, of Seattle, and her
Maharajah husband have bought a luxurious
chateau on the, Rue St. Germain. There are tew
American women who could stand the sacred rites
of the Hindus. Bathing in the Ganges along with
thousands of ill-smilling natives is not pleasant,
neither is it agreeable to have to pay too many
obligations ‘to the sacred heifers and white ele-
phants. Certainly Paris, where bathing in: the
Seine before sunrise would hardly be conventional,
is a more elite place of, residence.

Foreign counts and generals find living, even as
head-waiters, growing harder in this country. Geo.
Y. D’Hedberg, at one time a major-general in the
Russian army in command of 70,000 men, was re-
cently arrested in New York for stealing two
shirts. Nicholas II would have been shocked if
anyone had even suggested that a member of the
Imperial force could have been jailed on any
charge.’ Proprieties and times have advanced since
the time when Catherine the Great had seventy

nude peasant maidens changed into statues by

pouring freezing water over them in the depths of
a Russian winter.

Hard, indeed, is the life of one who devotes his
energies to the pleasing of the public. Charlie
Baker, former idol of the French people and in-
troducer of jazz in France, paralyzed and pennifess
died in Paris. For years he has earned his bread
by acting as a doorman at a ten-cent theatre. His
contribution was jazz. But the public cares little
for a man’s contribution after it has been made.
Handel, Beethoven, and Mendelssohn found life
equally hard; their works will live longer than
Charlie Baker’s, at that.

Prospective clergymen and ministerial students
evidently have the promise of a somewhat athletic ~
ministry. Six preachers of Staunton, Va., formed
a volley ball team which won state-wide recogni-
tion. The Staunton police force rankled under
their publicity, as the police, too, had.a good team.
The result was a wager to the effect that if the
police won two of three games, the ministers would
spend one hour in jail; if the parsons were vic-
torious, the cops were to attend church in a body.
On the Sunday after the cops had lost three con-
secutive games, six disconsolate red-headed Irish
policemen walked sedately down the aisle of the
Episcopal church. Moral: Don’t gamble your
church-going privileges !

Mentioning red-headed ones, reminds us that
there are only eighteen boosters of the auburn curl
in school. This is approximately two and nine--
tenths per cent of the student. body. The question
naturally arises: Does this scarcity of red hair
Possessors show lack of their ability to attend in-
Stitutiofs of higher education? Not all all! Of
the ‘dark and light-haired men in school, some-
thing like six and three-tenths per cent made the
honor roll, Of the red-heads eleven per cent of
their number attained to this distinction. All of
centage of the auburn tops increases.
them work, and the remainder of the student body
may well despair of scholastic honors if the per-

Although slightly disagreable, the hot weather
of the last few days has done its good turn. The
mosquito hatcheries, located around the excava-
tion for the new building have dried up. Their
rapidly increasing number was becoming a veri-
table menace to the house-flies, gnats, and other
insects. It has been mathematically calculated,
that if the hatcheries had not dried up when they
did, in two days there would have been?rg-vT| vh
did, in two days t here would have been
743,865,908,312 large and small mosquitoes, To give
an idea of the vast multitude of them, if they were
placed end to end there would be enough to ex-
tend from the west light Post of the library to the
east pillar of East. Or, if they were placed one on
top of the other, their number would be sufficient.
to reach to the top of the flag pole and| cover
47 stars of the flag. :

—J. W. Mc.

A freshman dance at Drake University was sud-
denly turned into a paddling bee much to the de-
light of the yoting freshmen’s Partners and those
who wielded the paddles,

Any Ohio State man with an. unexcused absence
before or after a vacation is given an additional
three-hours as a requirement for graduation.

The Duke Chronicle notes that its students save

$15,000 each college year in traveling expenses by
bumming.”

