Ay

THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 19, 1928

Y.M.C.A. Arranges Program for Vesper
Services During the Next Two Months

“It seems entirely fitting and appropriate | "°W members of the student body at Unien

that the last two “Y” vesper programs of Seminary, in Richmond, Va., will have
the school term should be, in charge of two | charge of the a lens bei

of our spiritual organizations,” said Jim Ap- | Bishop E. A. Penick has been invited to
leby in his introductory speech at the vesper | *PPC@r mere on. February 19th, but at this

services on last Sunday. night when he an- | rial 1 Ot tea Bea sd nth he 7
nounced that the last two services of the | this date. Pat Crawford, a graduate o

Davidson, will speak here on February 26th,
or the first week-end in March. |
The complete program of the “Y” vespers
for the coming month is as follows:
Jan. 22—Christian Endeavor Training
' Class.
Jan. 29—The Ministerial Band.
Feb. 5—Dr. Oren Moore.

year would be sponsored by the Christian
Endeavor Training Class and the Ministerial
Band, with the Christian Endeavor officiat-
ing on Januar¥ 22nd, and the Ministerial
Band in charge on Sunday, January 29th.
Inasmuch as good many of the
students leave the hill during the exam. week,
it was h i ~
grams, pes Mia tee Sida Feb, 12—Deputation from Union Semi-
nary.

of the new term the “Y” has engaged a ; :

number of very good speakers, all sy eins | Feb. 19—Bishop E, A. Penick, ;
the Davidson student body is very familiar | Feb, 26-—Pat Crawford (Tentative).
with. The first is Dr. Oren Moore, of Char- |
lotte, who has addressed the Davidson stu-| Vacationists who lie in the sun for hours
dent body on several occasions before. Dr. at a time are indulging in a dangerous
Moore will come to Davidson on the night practice, as the skin cannot manufacture
of February 12th, a deputation composed of pigments quickly enough to protect one
Bill Christian and Bill Gardner, both of from injury unless the first exposures are

whom are former Davidson students, and of short duration.

a

The Commercial National Bank

Charlotte, N. C. Founded 1874

Students Criticize |
Curricular Reform

Football having passed off the boards,
curricular reform is again engaging stu-|
dent attention in several colleges. The |
undergraduate reformers have taken fair
notice of the criticisms overflowing cur-
rent periodicals and have adopted a vig-
orous style in attacking their campus
problems.

The University of Washington Daily,
after publishing a series of student crit-
icisms of the university and its work, has |

Second Chameleon Will]

be Issued After Exams

| Contributors Reqffuested to Turn

Material in to Members of
Staff

The second edition of the Chameleon, Da-
vidson College’s quarterly literary publica-
tion, will be issued sometime during the sec-
ond week in February, according to James
G. Wharton, editor-in--chief.

So far, very little material for the coming
edition has been turned in, but it is expected
that more will find its way to the editor’s

Excellent Program
of Latest Pictures
at Davidson Movie

An excellent program has been pre-
pared for next week at the Davidson
Theater. Emil Jannings in “The Last
Command” will very probably be shown
h ere on Monday and Tuesday, This
is one of the latest releases and is said
to be one of the outstanding pictures of
the season. One of the newest pictures
of Esther Ralston, the popular young
comedienne, will be shown the following

summarized by blaming the faculty “for | hands before the magazine is ready to go to;day. Such players as Lois Moran, George

the lack of intellectual stimulus and.study
encouragement prevalent on the campus.” |

press.
An urgent request is being made, for any

O’Brien, Colleen Moore, Mary Astor,
Lloyd Hughes, Richard Barthelmess, Tom

The main draw-back it conceives as “the | of the students who have stories, or poems, | Mix, and Capt. Tim McCoy will also be
appalling over-emphasis on activities for that they think worthy of publication, to featured. The pictures are as follows:
activitiy’s sake, that insistence on activ-| turn them over to one of the members of the! Thursday—Mary Astor and Lloyd in

ities at Washington which results in the!
average collegian striving to be an ac-|
tivity hound from freshman days to the |

end of college.” The faculty is blamed |

staff.
The material will be put in order for the
press immediately after examinations.

bee sees Wives.”
| Friday—‘Her Wild Oats,” starring Col-
'teen Moore.

Saturday—Tom Mix in “Arizona Wi.d-

for having failed to eliminate superfluous tee at Haverford College is drafting its cat.”

activities, and the Daily presents the prob-
lem as one for the teachers to solve.

President C. D. Gray of Bates College

annual report to the faculty.
is wide, and its suggestions will deal not
only with the curriculum proper, but al-

Its s¢ope |

Monday and Tuesday—Emil Jannings in
“The Last Command.”
Wednesday—"Love and Learn,” featur-

has appointed a student committee of so with the conduct of student affairs and ing Esther Ralston.

gest modifications and changes. The stu-
dents will carry on the work begun by a
senior committee last year. Three other |
groups are working on the same problem,

| twelve to examine the curriculm and sug-| such matters as improvement of library |

lighting conditions, and prompt «dismis-
sal of classes.
The main points in an undergraduate

report just presented to the faculty at

Thursday — Lois Moran and George
O’Brien in “Sharpshooters.” ,
| Friday—"“The Noose” with
Barthelmess as the leading star.

Saturday—Capt. Tim McCoy in “Spoil-
ers of the West.”

Richard

one composed of teachers, another of al-| The College of the City of New York
. . . ° | var . .
umni, and a third, serving as advisory, of proposes revision of certain prescribed

Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your
banking needs.

4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit.

Trust Department under supervision of United States
Government. Make us your Executor.

Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000 00.
O’ FICERS

R. A. DUNN, President I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President J. B. DOAR, Aast. Cashier?
A. T. SUMMEBY, Vice-President M. T. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier

FULLBR HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier

The New
OR THOPHONIC }
VICTROLA

The Finest Musical Instrument
in the World

Prices $95 to $1,000 |
All Models in Stock---Easy Terms

NEW RECORDS

EVERY FRIDAY

~ ANDREW’S

MUSIC STORE |

213 N, Tryon St. Charlotte, N. C.

CREDENZA, $300.00

Our Great January
Clearance of Suits

and Overcoats now

in progress - - -

MELLON’S

Charlotte, N.C.

outsiders.

Students in the College for Women at |
Western Reserve University have selected |
representatives to serve as their agents |

courses in order to permit greater free-
dom in the choice of electives, and the in-
stitution of honor courses. In develop-
ing these points the student investigators

“Never depair. Somewhere above the
clouds the sun is shining.”

“Yes, and somewhere below the sea
there's solid bottom but that doesn’t help

in presenting to the faculty complaints) became critical of some of the existing a man when he falls overboard.”—Colby

against the curriculum. They are mem-  COurses.—The New Student.

bers of the student council, who will work
in conjunction with a faculty committee,

Embryonic Mother-in-law—"“Have some

to whom they will make recommenda- of your prospective wife’s cake.”

tions after passing on student complaints. |
The undergraduate curriculum commit-

Martyr—"“This is so’ sodden.” — Penn.
State Froth.

White Mule.
|

Several years ago we met a bootlegging
policeman, Today he is a copper still.”—
Dregon Owl.

%

=
=

se =

=e

=.

a

NEW RECORDS
RELEASED EVERY FRIDAY

Get your Exam Pads, Ink, Fountain

Pens and Stationery supplies here

During Exams we will Remain

Open until Twelve O'clock

UPERIOR
ODA
ERVICE

Davidson Book and Stationery Co.
“Where Service and Quality Reign”

%

