THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 19, 1928

WILDCAT TRACKS

Following Davidson’s
“MEN OF MIGHT”
Along the Athletic Trail

By Zeb Long, Jr.

The Tech relays have come and gone, and
with them Davidson’s greatest opportunity
for recognition in Southern track circles. It
is the general belief that the wet track held
up John Currie in his quest for new laurels.
Currie is no mud-horse; that was shown at
these same Tech relays last spring. Give
Currie a dry day and a fast track, and this
d-yartment is certain that he can whip any

‘*runner in the South, possibly in the East.
He is first pick for the 100, 220 and 440 yard

Davidson Courtmen Win
Four Straight Matches

Southern Trirz Results in Brilliant
Victories for Wildcats

The Davidson College netmen invaded five

| Fast Contest Marred by Erratic
Play of Davidson

|

The University of North Carolina Tar

dashes in the coming state meet at Greens-' schools in twice as many days and returned | Heels once again held to their winning ways
|to the campus on last Thursday with a rec- | over the Wildcats in the annual Easter Mon-

boro.

‘ord of four straight victories and no defeats. |

day clash at Salisbury. The slants and hooks

Heath Whittle proved to be Davidson’s Playing’ brilliant tennis in every match, the of a youngster named Ball proved a little too
star. This Sophomore took second place in; Wildcat Racketeers found little opposition in| much for the bats, of Coach Monk’s men,
thé 220 low hurdles, a Detroit runner finish-| their foes with the exception of Georgia and they went down, only after .a gallant

ing first. This would seem to indicate that

in this neck of the woods, at least. A

| Tech, who required an extra match to be de- |

stand, by the count of 3 to 0. John McInnis

.| Mercer met defeat at the hands of the Wild- lina. ace, and had his mates given him the

Whittle will soon be in a class to vs feated.. Wofford, Furman, Georgia Tech and | twirled on nearly equal terms with the Caro-
litthe

more form on his jumps, and it will bea / cats, the match with the University of S. C. | support he deserved, the outcome might have

beautiful sight to see him getting over the |
barriers. : |

being rained out.
The team left school on Monday morning,

| playing the first match of the-trip on Monday | Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats
Davidson’s golf team accomplished great | afternoon with the Wofford netmen, whom | could take the situation in hand thre runners |

been very different. An infield blow-up in
the second frame proved disastrous to the

things this week. On their state trip they | they defeated 6-0 in brilliant style. “The best | had crossed the plate. With tight work by
lost to Carolina, it is true, but the Duke Blue} match was between Roddey and Shuler, | the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would

Devils proved no match for the local boys, |

which the former won 8-4, 6-8, 7-5. This

not have scored. Several times Davidson

and dropped their encounter.“*Second place | was the only match that went three sets. | might have scored had the batter been able

in the state meet is very good, when you! Carr gave his home city a beautiful exhibi- | to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the secm-

consider that golfing at Davidson is more or
less of an individual sport; no coach, or reg-
ular attention having been given the men
who play the game. Hats off to Boyce Mar-
tin, who received the prize cup for the lowest
score in the meet. Look out, Bobby Jones!

Captain Carr and his mates are to be
warmly congratulated on their splendid ten-
nis trip through the South. Wofford, Fur-
man, Mercer and Georgia Tech all fell be-
fore their onslaught. It is needless to say
that Davidson stock received a big boost as a
result of these victories. Wildcat tennis
teams have always been good, one of the
state titles falling their way nearly every
year. 1928 is no exception. Roddey Hal-
verstadt, Johnston and Kerr make a quartet
that cannot be equalled by most colleges.

Well, the past two weeks have shown a
good many things about the athletic status
of Davidson teams. The trip of the varsity
baseball squad through the Old Dominion
was most gratifying to every supporter of
Monk Younger and his Wildcat crew. Guil-
ford, Lynchburg, and V. P. I. all felt the
claws of this determined band in no uncer-
tain manner. For the first time this year the
team put on its batting clothes, and proceed-
ed to make life miserable for the best pitch-
ers of their opponents. Probably the high
spot was Hal Johnson’s long homer with the
bags loaded in the V. P. I. clash. The story

goes that Hal was calmly resting on the
' bench when the ball was reutrned to the in-
field.

Davidson lost its annual game with the
University of North Carolina in a heart-
breaking way. Carolina won by _headier
playing and the nice hurling of Mr. Ball,
merely a youngster from the point of serv-
ice, but those who saw the contest know that
the ’Cats literally threw the game away in
the second frame. It seemed that for a min-
ute everything blew up, and before anyone
knew what it was all about, the Tars had
pushed a trio of runners across the pan and
sewed the game up, ag it turned out later.
McInnis turned out a beautifully pitched
game. He showed that he has the makings
of a real Wildcat pitcher.

Speaking of pinch hitting, young “Phoebe”
Phelps, erstwhile football star at Wake For-
est, gave a correct demonstration of this art
in the last inning of the game with the
Deacons ‘Friday. The audience, however,
was slightly unappreciative of Mr. Phelps’
example, since it played such havoc with the
Wildcats” chances. They say that out of
seven times at bat this season, all of them
pinch hittihg, this slugger has delivered five
hits, three’of them triples.

Kugler; Henderson and McInnis promise
to develop,into one of the best twirling staffs
seen at Davidson since the days of Sorrels,
Hunter’ Boushee, All are Sophomores

and have’ two more seasons ahead. Add -to
these “Bagk’ Marrow ‘and “Lefty” Thomp-
- gon, of the present frosh team, and it must be

z

pe believed-here.--- VEST

aa ne eS nt

tion when in the first set, after loosing four |
games, he staged a come-back to win the
|next six games.

{| On Wednesday afternoon the Furman
courtmen were met on the school courts, |
| only to be defeated by the Wildcats by a!
| score of 5-1. Leaving the Furman and Wof- |
| ford victories behind, the team next took on
Lue strong Georgia Tech team, which proved ,
to be real opposition. The matches were
played on the East Lake Country Club
courts which were wet and a bit slow. Rod-
dey and Halverstadt won their singles, but
Carr and Johnson were defeated. In the
doubles Roddey~and Carr won, but Halver-
stadt and Johnson lost, which left the match
atie. Accordifig to the Southern Conference
ruling, Roddey and Carr played their doubles
over again, and won 6-4, 6-4, which gave
Davidson the match with a score of 4-3.

On Monday the return trip was preceded
with a match with Mercer College, at Ma-
con, Ga. Playing between intervals of show,,
ers of rain the Davidsonians won every
match, until Lewis and MgMillan, of Mer-
cer, defeated Halverstadt and Johnson in the
second round of the doubles. In this match
the second set required 18 games before the
Wildcats were defeated. A match was sched-
uled with the University of S. C., on Wed-
nesday, but was rained out, leaving the
Davidson men free to return to the campus
late that night.

AL SMITH

(Continued from page 1)

was the nearest candidate and Senator
Reed, third.

The straw vote conducted by, The Char-
lotte Observed indicates that Governor
Smith is the favorite of this territory with-
out a doubt as he leads with a vote which
is several times dopbled.. The opinions in
southern institutions seems to favor
Hoover with Kentucky, West Virginia,
Mississippi, and Louisiana conforming to
this report. Alabama and Georgia are
said to be partial to Smith.

Campus opinion has it that Hoover
would have then declared the favorite had
his local campaign managers been as dili-
gent as the ‘Smith party leaders in ob-
taining votes for the democratic governor.
The interest manifested was confined to
quiet expressions and failed to result in
the organization of local clubs advocating
either of the leading candidates for the
nomination.

The result of the voting are as follows:
Smith, ‘201; Hoover, 169; Reed, 25; Mc-
Lean, 14; Coolidge, 12, Scattering votes
were cast for Ritchié, Harrison, Walsh,
McAdoo, Dawes, George, Davis, Lowden,
Borah, Glass, Heflin,-Hughes,. Meredith,
Will Rogers and Bunker Hill, Jr.

==————lESESESES See
7 ?

this week are of unusual significance to Da-
vidson men and supporters. They |signalize
the first time that the second leading Pres-
byterian institution of the South has sent its
teams to Davidson, Last year the Petrels
took two games from the ’Cats in Atlanta,

but this year will see a different story, it is

@ <2
= Earnest Pw pts WLS

'of four.

ingly inevitable double play always broke up
the locals’ chance.

Hal Johnson connected once for a beau-
tiful double against the rightfield fence, but
died: on the second sack. Bennie MacAuley
and Pitcher McInnis secured the two re-
maining bingles for Davidson. For Caro-
lina, Satterfield led the hitting with two out
Charlie Harrison put up a nice
game around the keystone corner, while
“Tuck” McConnell snagged a hard chance in
the outer gardens,

The game outside of that fatal second in-
ning was one of the fastest collegiate games
seen in the state in recent years. Both teams
played jam-up ball from then on until the
end of the game. The hurlers were in mid-
season form and the ball hawks of each nine
seemed to have the leather spotted.

Box score and summary :

DAVIDSON ABR HPOAE
Harrison, 2b ----------- 300230
Kugler, ss .------------ 30) 0) 2) 1) 1
Ratchford, If ~--------- 400100
Johnson, cf ------------ 401300
McInnis, p ------------ 401000
Crawford, 1b ---.------ 300911
Littlejohn, 3b ~..-----.. 300120
McAulay, ¢ .......05-.. 30141 0
McConnell, rf ---------- 300200

Motels ees Sco 30 0 324 8 2
CAROLINA ABR HPOAE
Satterfield, ss --...-..__ 411040
Burt 2b8 secs Soe 201160
Barnhardt, If ---------- 300100
Mackie, 1b ---.----_--_- 40016 0 0
Jessup, rf -----------_. 402100
Magner, 3b ~-----_-_--- qlee dese
Coxer of geese oo 301300
Maus, C: 2s2255- cuca 200310
Ballon oofo eeescus 811412 0

Totals es ee ok 29 °3 72714 1

Score by innings: R
Davidson 000 000 000—O
Carojina 030 000 000—3

Summary; Two-base hits: Johnson; sac-
rifices: Barnhardt, Maus; double plays:
Satterfield to Burt to Macke; struck out:
by McInnis 4, Ball 3; base on balls: off Mc-

Carolina 6; passed balls: -by McAulay 1,
Maus 1; umpire: Brandon.

Batting Averages

Name At Bat Hits . Pct.
McGeachy -~.-...----.. 1 1 1,000
Doc Kugler ---.---.---- Sa .400
Johnson --..-.-...-... 38 OS 342
McConnell ~2..-.-.---. 267 333
Dulin ace eese cs 4 67 .292
Harrison -..-..-.------ 2 8 £276
Ratchford ~.-._...-.._. 35 9 257
Littlejohn ....-...-.... . 16 (4 .250
J. Kugler ~-......--... 36 «9 -250
Henderson --..--....... 4 1 .250
Crawford -........_... 34 8 235
McInnis -..--.-.---... 30 5 167

Tar Heels Defeat Cats |Bad Weather Slows Up

_ in Annual Easter Game;

Innis 2, Ball 2; left on base: Davidson 4,]

Events in Tech Relay

Whittle Places Se codnMFP------
Whittle Places Second in 220 Yard
Low Hurdles

Davidson’s chief hope, the sprinting abil-
ity of Captain John Currie, failed to ma-
terialize in the Georgia Tech relays, and
Heath Whittle was the only wearer of the
Red and Black to gain a place. Whittle, out-
doing his previous efforts, took second place
in the 220 low hurdles. An entrant from
the University of Detroit came in first. The
real yteam, composed of Currie, Flinn, Whit-
tle and Kell, finished fourth am all the
relay team, composed of Currie, Kfinn, Whit-
inches of mud covered the Georgia track,
making it especially hard on the sprinters.
Currie won his trial heat in the 100 yard

| dash, coming in ahead of Hamm, the Tech

flash. In the finals, Cummings, of Virginia ;
Elder, of Notre Dame; Hamm, of Georgia
Tech, and Currie, of Davidson, finished in
the order named. All four men finished
within a few feet of each other.

A majority of the places were wom" by
University of Indiana men, though the South
came in for its share of points. The rainy
weather had more than a little to do with the
slow time in most of the events. Probably
the feature of the meet came when Graydon,
a high school boy from’ Little Rock, Ark.,

to break the Southern record.

NO REPORT

(Continued from page 1)
on the drill field and the salisthenics drill.
The march of the battalion in review was
also good, this feature “being especially
well received by the large numbers of Da-
vidson friends who were assembled ‘to
watch the inspection activities,

Colonel Merriam subjected the battalion
‘to the inspection usually given_to_troops
of the Regular Army. The strain of such
close scrutiny resulted in a few minor
errors due to stage-fright and nervous-
ness, but otherwise, the whole inspection
was carried through very smoothly.

After the morning’s drill, the visiting
officers were entertained at the Pi Kappa
Alpha house by the Davidsonian unit of
Scabbard and Blade honorary military
fraternity. This show of cordial hospital-
ity was highly appreciated by the visiting
officers,

With about twenty guests present, Col-
onei Merriam was entertained at a diy-
ner at the hotel. Following this event}
Captain Daugherity received the two of-
ficers in his home, whereupon numbers
of the Davidson people took advantage of
the informal open house invitation to
meet them,

Colonel Merriam and Major Mc-
Caughey left Davidson Thursday for
Presbyterian College of Clinton, S.oC.,,
where they will make a similar inspection
to that made at Davidson. When their
tour is completed, they will return to
their headquarters of the Fourth Corps
Area in Atlanta, and submit official re-
ports on each school visited.

‘SCABBARD AN DBLADE

_ (Continued from page 1)
men were formally pledged at the after-
noon drill on Wednesday.

The following men are already members
of Scabbard and Blade: H. B. Arbuckle,
Jr., W. B. Bradford, Julian Lake, M. C.
O'Neal, C. C. Trabue, P. J. Garrison, J.
M. Akers, R. S. Link, R. S, Laurance, J.
M. Gudger, and P. W. Walton,

NEW LIBRARY BOOKS

Oxford of Today—Crosby, Aydelotte, and
Valentine.
Theater Advancing—Craig.
Italy From End to: End—Allen.
Aspects of Modern Drama—Chandler.
In Praise of France—Gwynn.
The Life of James B. Duke—Jenkins.
vi ee cae Life—Selected.
emi ion of Ultraviolet Rays—EI-
lis and Wells.
Varina Howell,
—Rowland.

Wife of Jefferson Davis

| History of Music—Pratt.,

hurled the javelin a distance of 205 1-4 feet, |

Wildcat Track Men.

| Lose to Duke Team

|

Coming out in front to annex a healthy

| lead in the later stages, the Duke University ¢-

| Blue Devil team defeated the Davidson cin-
| der experts here by a score of 78 2-3 to
| 47 1-3: John Currie, nationally known dash
| star, stepped off the hundred in 9 and 9-10
seconds to lead the men to the tape. Currie
also won the 220 and 440 to amass an indi-

vidual score of 15 points and lead the field.

Brummitt, Duke star, set new school rec-
ords in both the shot putt and the discus.
In the former event Brummitt’pushed the
shot 42 feet 2 1-4 inches, and later in the
afternoon hurled the discus 115 feet 9
inches. He was second to Currie in indi-
vidual scoring. Tuttle, Duke, also set a new
record in the two-mile run, when he broke
the tape in 9:57.2,

Summary (Running Events) :

100 yard dash—Currie, Davidson, first;
Bruton, Duke, second; Whittle, Davidson,
third. Time, 9.9 seconds.

Mile run—Woodward, Duke, first; Ash-
worth, Duke, second; Ely, Davidson, third.
Time, 4 minutes 16.8 seconds.

120 yard high hurdles—Whittle, Davidson,

first; Brown, Davidson, second; Baum,
Duke, third. Time, 16.8 seconds.
440 yard run—Currie, Davidson, first;

Kell, Davidson, second; Baum, Duke, third.
Time, 52:2.

220 yard dash—Currie, Davidson, first ;
Bruton, Duke, second; Flynn, Davidson,
third. Time, 23.6.

Two-mile run—Tuttle, Duke, first; Wine-
coff, Duke, second; Ashworth, Duke, third.
| Time, 9:57.2 (new record).

220 yard low hurdles—Whittle, Davidson,
first; Erwin, Duke, second; Brown, David-
| son, third. Time, 26.2.

880 yard run—Doxey, Duke, first; Can-
dler, Duke, second; Goldwin, Duke, third.
Time, 2:2.4.

Field Events:

Shot put—Brummit, Duke,’ first; Left-
wich, Davidson, second; Summerrow, Duke,
third. Distance, 42 feet 2 1-4 inches (new
school record).

High jump—Futrelle and Roberts, both of
Duke, tied for first place; Gardner and Du-
mas, of Davidson, tied for third place.
Height, 5 feet 9 inches.

Pole vault—Reed, Duke, first; Finley,
Duke, second; Lyons, Duke, and Smith, of
Davidson, tied for second. Height, 10 feet
9 inches,

Discus—Bruumett, Duke, first; Leftwich,
Davidson, second; Wray, Duke, third. Dis-
tance, 115 feet, 9 inches (new school record).

Broad. jump—Futrelle, Duke, first; Bach-
ary, Duke, second; Gardner, Davidson, third.
Distance, 20 feet 9 inches.

Javelin—Bennett, Duke, first; Brown, Da-
vidson, second; Hunter, Duke, third. Dis-
tance, 164 feet. ;

Timers: Card (Trinity) and Burke (lIlli-
nois). Judges: Childs (Virginia), Aldridge
(Trinity), and Landon (Princeton).

JEVER

Jever

Sit around and
Scratch your head,
Then gekup and walk
Around ™“

The chair,

Then, sit down
And try thinking
And all at

Once :

It came to you
Like a

Streak of lightning.
So

You started that
Theme that

Was going tobe '
‘Due tomorrow.
You

Wrote and wrote,
Saying lots of
Things, and all it
Amounted to was
Nothing.

Just filled up
Space. —

Well, this is all
This is for.

Yours,

Truly. —Exchange.
Instrumental Music—Kelley. f
From Song to Symphony—Mason.
What We Hear in Music—Faulknee. ~ |
The Victrola Book of the Opera.
Life of Edward MacDowell—Porte.

'
