Page. Six

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Student Body Aglow
With Yuletide Glee

Although the campus is not bedecked
as is Ivey’s or Efird’s in Charlotte, with
counless red and green lights, yet it
does not take a wizard to realize that
Christmas is approaching. To use a
rather hackneyed expression, “It won't
be long now.” Everybody seems to be
just a little happier as each day brings
the holidays nearer. More smiles can
be seen as one crosses the campus, and
the familiar “Hi, Gentlemen” sounds
a little more cordial than usual.

The holidays afford to many the first
opportunity of going home since school
opened—three and a half -long, weary
months ago. To those who are lucky

enough to be able to go home an oc- |
casional week-end, it gives the chance |

to turn two happy days into two short

but glorious weeks.
—

For two whole weeks, no one will
have to think of getting up at eight
o’clock, for. fear of sleeping through
chapel, no longer will to
arise and go to classes with the harsh
clanging of a bell, no one will have to
sit up ‘til the small hours poringsover

one have

books to keep from getting “shot” on |4s peculiarly an undergraduate affecta-| going forward rapidly, All of the|this earth. You know Pete and how
the next day’s classés. Two weeks | tion as the insistence upon weirdly dis-| plastering in the right wing is com-|he hates niggers, well I told him he
with nothing to do but eat, sleep and tinctive headgear and apparel, or the| pleted and at the present time the had nigger blood in him and he asked

have a big time—what could be better?
It is needless for the writer to give

the following statement but for the!  p,- , closed in except the dome which is now | Self, I was so disgusted I didn’t wait
: Phi Beta Kappa was preparatory to ; on : to see if he died. There’ is hi ‘

benefit of a few freshmen who are 4h Poder “OCR EMPATE Gi being erected. There are approximtely see ted. ere 1s nothing in
e rde raternity movement. ; at i , ivi ; ; tea

having a little trouble with fresh : 75 men working on the building. All| life worth living for so I want to die.”

math, here it is: It is exactly nine
days, 16 hours, and thirty minutes un-
til the old bell will ring for the last
time for two weeks.

LIBRARY ADDITION

Among the new books now on the
shelves of Davidson College Library
are: “A History of English Literature,”
two volumes covering from 650 to 1914
A. D., by Louis Cazamian, “The Me-
diaeval Stage,” volumes 1-2 by E. K.
Chambers. “The Elizabethian Stage,”
volumes 1-2, by E. K. Chambers ; “The
Spirit of the Age,” by William Hazlitt;
“Barcester Towers,” by Anthony Trol-
lope; “Table Talk,” by William Haz-
litt; “The Works of Anthony Trol-
lope,” “The Play of Richard Sheridan,”
“Villon’s Poems,” “Robinson Crusoe,”
by Daniel Defoe; “Poems and Plays

The Drinking Society

“Mystery and secrecy is dear to the
youthful mind,” says De Lysle Ferree
Cass in an article on the history of
early secret organizations in the Jan-
uary College ‘Humor. “Hence the
many ‘secret societies in steadily. in-
reasing numbers throughout the coun-
try. After the early class and debating
societies came. Phi Beta Kappa, or-
ganized in 1776 with aims that were
purely social. “The Yale chapter was
installed as “a select debating society,
with initiation suppers where the juice
lof Bacchus flows.” It was the first
Greek letter society whose active
membership was not confined to a
single undergraduate class.

“In those days the student rath-
skeller was as”characteristic as were
peg-top trousers. Almost every college
town boasted one or more such drink-
ing places where the students gathered.
These parties—never in mixed com-
pany—were known as “beer busts,”
“beer fests,” and “kep parties,” and
were provocative of good-natured
mirth and fast fellowship. They rep-
resented no alcoholic craving, but were

of Greek

hocus-pocus
mysticism.

letter society

Secrecy was abandoned in 1830 and
|since that time membership has been
jalmost exclusively an honorary dis-
| tinction,

“The most dangerous of the class
secret societies was Theta Nu Epsilon,
| known as T. N. E. and now abandoned
almost everywhere. It perpetuated all
sorts of excesses and violence with the
utmost impunity, encouraging drunk-
enness, ‘dissipation, immorality. It
worked much as the present Ku Klux
Klan, Good fellowship, sporty pro-
clivities, liberal spending, and an un-
usual capacity for holding hard liquor
became the determining qualifications
for membership. No. T. N. E. ever al-
lowed ..a girl to wear his pin except in
tacit commemoration of her ‘moral
frailty. The Geek letters of the soci-
ety’s name were popularly alleged to
signify “Thirst Never Endeth.”

LITERARY SOCIETIES

“The Life and Works of Alfred
Noyes” was the subject of the pro-
gram of the Philanthropic Literary
Society at its meeting Tuesday, De-
cember 4. A sketch of Noye’s life was
given by H. L. Carr, of the Freshman
class. The President, Frank Hall, read
several of Noyes’. poems ‘including,
“The Highwayman,” “Forty Singing
Seamen,” and “The Admiral’s Ghost.”

Due to the fact that the Varsity De-
bating tryouts were held the same
night the exercises of the Eumenean
Society were limited to the installation
of new officers. The new officers are:
J. R. Graham who succeeds W, L. Du-
mas as president, W. B. McGuire who
succeeds R. M. Christian as vice-pres-
ident and M. W. Norfleet who succeeds
A. R. Bird as secretary.

Work Is Started on
Dome of Chambers

Work on the Chambers” building is

workmen are

the floor concrete,

finishing up pouring in
The building is all

of the steel work is complete and the
basic work on the heating and plumb-
ing is complete.

The dome is to be octagon shaped
at the base and it will be built entirely
of stone. The roofing of the building
is capper, except for the stone dome.

The central section of the building
will be comprised of the chapel, a ban-
quet hall, and the faculty club rooms.

The new right wing will house the
physics, biology, and geology depart-
ments and will furnish ample room for
aboratories and equipment.

The workmen are working toward
the completion of the New Chambers
building so as to have it ready for use
at commencement,

Dr. Sentelle Called

Comedy Presented

By Dramatic Club

Friday night the Dramatic Club pre-
sented “Moonshine,” a one act play
starring John Z. Preston and Stewart
Meacham, ' Preston took the part of
Luke Hasie, a cold-blooded “moonshin-
er,” and Meacham that of Jim Dunn, a
very tricky revenue officers. Both
played their roles exceedingly well.

As the curtain rises the moonshiner
drags a man into his cabin and unties
his hands.

“T don’t think you will try to run,”
said Luke, tapping his trusty old forty-
five, “I don’t suppose you will fool
around many more “stills” after today.
See that picture on the wall, that is
Jim Dunn after we have let him nang
about a week. I wish I had caught
him instead of you for he jailed about
half our gang last week. But don’t
let that make you'think that you ain't
going to get shot.”

“You can’t make me mad,” answer-
ed the prisoner, “I’ have been trying
to get myself killed for the last month,
I am afraid to kill myself for I don’t
know where I will land after T leave

me was I sure and I said yes, Then
he pulled out his gun and shot him-

“Well,” replied the moonshiner, “you
needn’t expect me to do your killing
for you, if you want to die, kill your-
self, but you ain’t going to make me
be responsible for your death. I have
killed twelve Crosbys in a feud but I
ain't going to shoot you. You had
better get out of here right now>take
my horse to ride back to town on.”

“You mean you are not going to
shoot me?” cried the captive, “Why
one more murder won’t mean any-
thing to you; but if you won't kill me
IT don’t suppose T can make you. I am
going to leave you my name so if you
are ever in New York you can come
to see me, ‘I'll write it on the back of
this picture.” After writing his name
on the picture he took Luke’s horse
and left. :

Soon after Luke glanced at the name
his visitor had left.

December 13, 1928

CAMPUS FOOTBALL
REIGNS SUPREME

For some months football reigned
supreme. Every day from right after
dinner until sunset boys in all sorts of
garb—a merciful public kindly dubbed

to the varsity athletic field and practice
field to enjoy for a few hours Prince
Football, son of King Football. Prob-
ably more took part in this form o
exercise than in any other, and rightly
so, for it is one of the best kinds, com-
bining the advantages of a great many
others, Because of the large number
of boys it was often necessary to run
two games, one on each field. What a

them “athletic outfits’—poured out on-,

pity that the sporting public had to
miss the beautiful twenty-yard passes,
superb tackles, and the eighty-yard
runs with which these games abound-
ed! Shouts and laughter, breath
wheezing joyfully from tired lungs and
throats, a little bit of cigar-shaped
pigskin zipping through the air; cam-
pus football! This game has all the
benefits of “Rugby” without its at-
tendant dangers, hence its lack of pop-
ularity among the fans.

But now! Grandfather Muscle-
Building Exercise has stepped in and
King and Prince have bowed in sub-
mission, The throngs now go to the
gym. A faithful few still carry on, the
pigskin still zooms toward waiting
hands, and the gay laughter of youth
still splits the air.

-—

have made the

4
ONE thousand

writers and artists should please you!

Percy Marks, the Montrosses, Katharine
Brush, James Montgomery Flagg, and
hundreds of college writers and artists

January COLLEGE

HUMOR especially brilliant.

Pointed Heels, a two part story of sophis-
ticated men and women, written with all
the charm and skill of Charles Brackett.
And See the World, a story of sailors on
shore leave in the sailor vernacular, by

of Oliver Goldsmith:”  “Politicat} “Kappa Beta Phi, directly burlesqu- At Nephew’s Death “J-I-M, Jim, D-U-N-N, Dunn, spelled John V. A. Weaver. ‘
Theories,” by Merriam Barnes; “An|ing Phi Beta Kappa, was another soph- eee Luke, “It was Jim Dunn, and he

Essay of the Virgins of the House of

}Omore secret society but this flourish-

Mr. Jack Sentelle Dies At Green-

begged me to kill him,” moaned Luke.

Northwestern,

by Bernard DeVoto,
critical survey of Northwestern’s men,

nie . ; ap Relite ; math 3 ; ; : : There are a 2 e ow

Commons,” by R. G, D. Laffan; “Per- jed only for a decade or so until the ville, Tennessee. ere are a large number of new her pretty co-eds, her faculty and her

sonality in Politics,” by W. Bennett! Passage of the Eighteenth Amendment EES men trying out for the Club as well as alumni
J 3 | Pye) ° , 2 " , ere ac re. 7 4 :

Munroe; “The Story of Western Rail- lee the yolnand Hie eat Dr Mb Senteller dean ce the cole ie ae who were hal ae a a The Dekes at Syracuse, by Howard
” - ‘ : ale Oh? : p sex ‘ * cy pre Ed. Ss § ~) cy cy s $

roads,” by Robert Riegel; “Whither |'qQuor contri tee to its. extinction. lege, was called to Greenville, Tenn, Wu nh Sie Raat it se Ne nae Barnes, an intimate picture of this frater-
. ” . Pree} VII -: : ° 2m, e J s

Mankind,” by Charles Beard; “The | early Friday morning on account of | 277008 them MAK NATE stele yn7 Lee nity group—who they are, what they do

World Court,” by Antonio Bustamante;
“The Relation of Government to In-
dustry,” by Rudolph Stammler; “The
Theory of Justice,” by Rudolph Stam-
mler; “The Reserve Banks and the

al Psychology,” by Smith and Guthrie;
“Psychologies of 1925,” “The Philos-
ophy of Grammar,” by Otto Jespersen.

\

the death of his nephew, Jack Sentelle.
Mr. Sentelle’s death was very sudden,
and a distinct shock to hoth friends
and relatives. Though he had been
a life-long sufferer from heart trouble,

some very good plays put on this year.

My, you need a hair cut.

and what they like.

Other stories of youth, love and college—
other articles of sports, travel, humor.

Christmas Offer

Stop at Norton Bros. and get
He

Correction

In last week's issue of The Da-
vidsonian it was stated that W.
P. Mills was a Rhodes Scholar

Money Market,” by W. Randolph Bur-
gess; “Main Street and Wall Street,”
by William Ripley; “The Labor Prob-
lem,” by J. A. Estey; “Judicial Inter-

\ A gift that shows taste, lasts the year
around and that is appreciated by
everyhody — sister, brother, swect-
heart, friends in foreign ports—that’s

COLLEGE Humor.

no immediate concern was felt over
his condition. Death occured while
out driving in his automobile, accom-
panied by a friend. Dr. Sentelle re-

a real College hair cut.
has three real barbers.

pretation of Industrial Law in the turned to the college on Monday Two gift subscriptions are but $5.
United States,” by Charles Pergler; at Oxford, being appointed in night. : oy aaa % sete Chri i di
“Framley Personage,” by Anthony 1922 Mr. Mills was actually OPC OCG hrs Wd AR

NORTON BROS.

three colors inscribed with your name.
You send the names and addresses
and we do the rest.

there from 1907 to 1910, being an
appointee at the same time with
Dr. B. R. Lacy, Jr. The former
from South Carolina and the lat-
ter appointed from North Caro-
lina.

Trollope; “Loyalties,” by John Gals-
worthy; “The Journal of the Tour to
the Hebrides with Samuel Johnson,”
by James Boswell; “The Life of Lord
Curzon,” by The Earl of Ronaldshay;
“Everyday Problems of the Everyday
Child,” by Douglas A. Thom; “Gener-

COLONIAL INN
Davidson, N. C,
Under Management of
Registered Dietetian
HAVE WE SERVED YOU?

in Postoffice block—

eee ce ee fe

Three first-class

1050 North LaSalle Street, Chicago

a
workmen
EXAMINATION SCHEDULE
Session 1928-29 . The Coll Man’s DE LUXE ICE CREAM
A. M. Examinations Begin 9:00 First Semester P. M. Examinations Begin 2:00 € Oo ege a at
e e
5 BE a First Choice
JAN. FRESHMAN SOPHOMORE | JUNIOR AND SENIOR . STUDENT STORE
FRI. A.M. English 1 | English 2 Hee BRathesa Reo S You will find here more
18 air a ear ase than the average number BRICKS CONES CUPS
. M. iology 2 |__ Biology 2 | Biology 3, 4, 5, 6.7 5 °
ALM History 1 leearnistoreir | Tere pace of shoe styles just suited to
SAT. : 7 an a me OR ae ead 8s ; i the college man’s taste. MOORESVILLE ICE CREAM CO.
19 .M. hemistry I emistry 2 emistry 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, P 2
Z | |___ Economics 2, Education 2 John Wards are preéminent : é
!
A.M. |
MON. = |
21 P.M. Bible 1 | Bible 2 | Astronomy, Geology 1
| | _Pub. Speak. 2; Philosophy 4
A.M, German A- German 2 | German 3, 4
G | \
TUES. erman 1, Greek 1 | Greek 2 Greeks 3, 5,6 S AG A Te l O N EB R YU
22 P.M. Physics A | Physics 1 | eee 263) 4 5, Philosophy 3 -
| | ceebrees eR ceeay 3 _ Printed and Embossed
yi : | |
A: M, | | Buainers 3, Economics 1
| sychology 3
WED.
23 P. M. Math. 1 | Math. 2 Math. 3,43 Polit. Sc. 3 ENGRAVED PERSONAL CARDS
Psychology 2, Education 1
Business 1, Geology 4 >)
Applied Math, 1, 2
A.M. Spanish A Spanish Spanish 3, 4, 5, 6, ek tite
THURS. Beant I eatin Ree a ETT Ea
a P.M. Phys, & Hygiene Public Speaking Philosophy 1, Business 2
Political Sc. 4, Economics 4
Psychology 1 C : / | Aubrey Brown
A.M, Geology 3, Polit. Sc. 1 Representin
FRI. Education 3 ¢ JehnWard 4
e? P.M. Hesien A French 2 French 3, 5, 8, 9 MEN'S SHOES b S d. | i :
rench 1 i ore.
, ye Presbyterian Standard Publising Co.
A.M. Latin 1 Latin 2 Economics 3, Geology 2 See them on display: Y d b 1S NG
SAT. Rubee oe a a Charlotte, Nl. C.
jf PeM R.0.T. C1 R.0.T.'C 2 R. O. T. C..3; 4 wena asia
ess Psychology 4

