» for. Davidson.
..now. The point is that there are entirely

4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 22, 1928

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press
Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

of Davidson as Mail Matter of

Entered at the Post Office
the ‘ond Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editor by 7:00 p. m. Monday. Articles re
ceived from an unknown source will not be published.

..-Editor-in-Chief
usiness Manager

A, N. WIN i uiniucdisauaarudic cease sioone, Managing Editor
W. K. PRITCHETT Managing Editor
J. B. MORIARITY Managing Editor
C. R. LAKE -.-... --Athletic Editor
RB. A. WILSON .-Feature Editor
W. L. LINGLE .A iate Editor
F. C. WITHERS -..--- A te Editor
T.T, AJONES 222-5 A jate Editor
L. C, WADSWORTH .......--.....--........40 Alumni Editor
R. C. GRADY - pepe hange Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
R. S. ABERNETHY......_..--Assistant Business Manager
S. J. ALLISON.....-.-...--.---- Assistant Business Manager
W. M. POWEL Assistant Business Manager
P. dy. CARESS -.--Subscription Manager
B. W. DICKSON.. ~--.------Circulation Manager
S. W. MORRIS. Solicitor
W. B. McGUIRE Solicitor
E. H. McCALL es dba Solicitor
REPORTERS’ CLUB
WH BALD Yeiespsccdces csctcsisecctuaccassuuaguieee President
5 LA SC NG kde ncaassanscoadeaccsdehesanl Vice-President
I RISGRAT AM ooo cs oul cs esp cukdnse Secretary-Treasurer
. P. ANDERSON {; P. McBRYDE
S. R. COKER . W. McDERMID
A. T. FDF ELMAN W._B. McQUEEN
ALLAN FREW F. D. MILLER
P. B. FRY V. A, MILTON
E. S. HEF FNFR R. T. NUNAN
R. F. JARRATT D. T. STOKES
R. W. KIRKPATRICK W. R. WEAVER
Z. V. LONG

EDITORIAL

THESE FRATERNITIES

Last Wednesday, when honorary fraternity
bids were issued, was the occasion for num-
erous suppressed chuckles from a few, com-
plete indifference from many, and groans
and wails from one or two disillusioned un-
dergraduates. For this occasion brought
before the students here one of the great
farces of our college drama. The evils of
over-organization have been noticed for sey-
eral years, but not until this year have they
been so evident. Several fraternities failed
to issue any bids, not because they did not
consider any one in the student body eligible,
but because no one in the fraternity saw fit
to call a meeting. Not all of the fraternities
failing to issue bids came under this cate-

gory, but there are at least two that did net~

consider bidding at all.

Interest in honorary, organizations has
waned greatly this year due to the fact that
the students have realized the worthlessness
of a number of them. This is not a tirade
against those honorary fraternities really
accomplishing something on the campus, but
it is an attack on those that have done ab-
solutely nothing this year, and have no in-
tention of doing anything in the future.

There are six or seven honorary frater-
nities on the campus having regular meet-
ings, good programs, and interesting dis-
cussions. The rest very seldom have meet-
ings, no programs, and do absolutely’ noth-
ing—some even failing to issue bids on the
date set apart by the honorary fraternity
council. There are some who would say that
six or seven honorary fraternities are too many
But that is not the question

too many now, and that some of these
should be disbanded.

One honorary fraternity has had: but one
meeting this year. The president elected
last year resigned at that meeting, another
head was elected. This is the sum total of
all business transacted by this society this
year. Possibly this is an exaggerated case,
but there are several others in practically
the same condition. Another fraternity has
but four meetings a year, two for election of
new members and two for initiation—we
are not referring to the honorary scholastic
fraternity. If these cases are any indication
of the feeling of the students who are mem-
bers of the various organizations, they
should be disbanded at once.

An honorary fraternity which is really
active is a helpful influence in campus life.
A fraternity of this type is apprecikted by
its members and honored on the campus. It
is this type of fraternity which should exist
here, but unfortunately there are only a few
examples. The fraternities which do not
¢ anything helpful either to the

the college, but afford only an-

college honors section
d certainly be abolished

nothing was done about it. From this it
seems that students are willing to pay ten
and twelve dollars for absolutely nothing,
merely to claim affiliation with some or-
ganization of which no one but the members
know the full name. If these individuals in
the impotent organizations prefer meeting
only once a year, adding a title of no mean-
ing under their names, then someone else
should step in to disband these organzia-
tions.

tions., They honorary fraternity should be
the one to take this step, but it meets only
three or four times a year, twice to set Bid
Day, and is therefore not deeply concerned
with the life of any of its members. With
a number of organizations lifeless, and the
governing body practically so, it seems high
time for somebody else to step in and strip
these parasites from Davidson.

AND AGAIN POLITICS

From the editorials and open forum ar-
ticles being written on the political situation
here at Davidson it would seem to the casual
observer that the Davidson student body is
seething and reeking with corrupt politics.
We hasten to correct this misconception.
We are frank in saying that there is little of
politics at Davidson compared to other in-
stitutions. Naturally when candidates for
an important office are being selected there
is some discussion, naturally the friends of
a particular candidate are anxious to see
their candidate elected. But those who know
Davidson laugh when it is said there are
political machines here that should be
abolished.

Naturally there are some evils, as will be
evident in any system of selection of can-
didates and in any system of elections. The
student body votes upon some men for posi-
tions about which the voters know nothing.
They know very little of the abilities of the
various candidates and cannot always judge
without prejudice. In a small school as Da-
vidson, however, men know each other fair-
ly well and can generally decide which man
they believe is the logical candidate.

There has also been some criticism of the
methods of nominating men for certaitr offi-
ces. But as yet there have been no better
plans proposed. With all elections there will
ever be present a few evils which it will be
impossible to eradicate. Davidson is not

will be,“but the present system will prevail.
until a better one is proposed and accepted.

The fears of any who are concerned about
the system of elections and the politics here
may well be subdued when they consider the
men who have been elected in the past.
This institution has been singularly free

from student government officials whov:are -

not judicious, wise, and tactful. The recent
elections help to bear out this statement.
Kell will undoubtedly steer the fortunes of
the Davidson student government in good
style through the coming year, as has his
predecessor. Melton is well suited for the
presidency of the “Y”, no one could say that
he will not devote all of his interests to its
betterment, Brown has proven his abilities
along journalistic lines by three years of
arduous labor in various departments of this
publication.

* And though there has been much discus-
sion about the situation, we are more opti-
mistic than we once were, for we believe
that the students have chosen wisely. Fur-
thermore it is not illogical to believe that
they will continue to choose wisely in the
years to come.

Open Forum

BALLOTS

It seems that in an institution as well or-
ganized as Davidson that there should be
some definite system of balloting. Under
‘the present system, voters are given scratch
paper, or a blank mimeographed ballot, and
asked to indicate their choice of candidates
in about two or three minutes’ time. These
ballots are supposed to be dropped in
wooden boxes. There are always many who
leave them in the seat, ask someone else to
drop them in the box, or fail to vote alto-
gether. There are never more than three
hundred and. fifty or four hundred ballots
cast in any election.. When one considers
that Davidson has a student body of six hun-
dred and twenty or thirty, it is deplorable.

Men who do pot attend chapel have no
way of voting unless they know what can-
didates. will be nominated, write out their
choice and ask a friend to drop it in a box.
Ballot boxes should be left open for the first
period for these men, or give them a chance
to vote in some way. :

If it would be possiblé, a general “Election

entirely free from petty politics and®never .

Collegiate Comment

Out of Bounds

The editorship of the magazine at Wisconsin
was decided by a flip of a coin last week. The
staff voted upo ntwo candidates and the result was
a tie. One easy way to elect people to offices
at any rate. Much more efficient than writing
down a name on a piece of paper.

Dr. E. D. Warfield, president of Wilson College,
says that college training prevents divorce. Dr.
Warfield claims to have made a careful survey of
the situation and that his conclusions are logical.
Then the Charlotte papers report that compan-
ionate marriage will cause many more suicides.
Things are much more complicated now than when
the cave man dragged his squaw (or did he call
her by such endearing terms?) away from her
cavern apartment.

snore “

The Emory Wheel includes a two page roto-
gravure section in its issue this week. Pictures of
various guests at the house parties were pub-
lished. Some were pretty and some weren't. Fhose
that failed to register pulchritude probably had a
B. F. on the staff. Extra-curricula activities to
help at times.

The Flat Hat of William and Mary is not quite
as flat as it once was. Ten pages every issue now.

The Old Gold and Black of Wake Forest reports
that a ton of weight is lost by candidates out for
spring football every afternoon. It would be in-
teresting to note how much is lost here during
this week with reviews spread about and seniors

‘working for exemptions.

Oh, yes, we were about to forget—the chairman
of the Junior-Senior banquet at N. C. C. W. re-
quests that it be announced that-young gentlemen
invited, to aforementioned banquet refrain from
sending corsages to their dates. At least that will:
ease the conscience of the B. F. who wasn’t going
to send one anyway.

The annual mud-fight between the freshman and
soph classes at Stanford University has been dis-
continued. Yes,-and snow fights have been dis-
continued here. More of this California propa-
ganda, as the Floridian would say.

Eight students from the University of Florida
are at Citadel for several days visit to inspect the
military unit there. Possibly they wil! leave be-
fore the inspectors come—but then maybe the
University is ottt to beat Citadel.

Beta Beta Beta (etc..ad infinitum), national bio-
logical fraternity, is planning to install a chapter
at the University of Chattanooga. One gastropod
is still holding out, but they are planning to put
their star hydra on him and expect favorable re-
ports within a day or so.

A joint meeting of the chemistry students at
State and St. Mary’s was held the other evening.
Well, there’s no need telling what they discussed.

Student Government at the University of Wiscon-
sin is no more. The president of the university has
accepted the self-deposed student senate’s recom-
mendation that its charter be considered defunct.
The boys will probably raise their avefages a bit
now.

Will Rogers was initiated into the Auburn chap-
ter of Scabbard and Blade when he spoke there.
Possibly they too have heard how much Rogers
has been making lately.

The co-ed dormitories at Wisconsin have inaug-
urated the custom of exchanging fifty guests with
the men’s dormitories for Sunday dinners.

A state law in Alabama prohibiting trade stamps
has caused the rebate which the University of Ala-
bama book store annually refunds to students de-
clared illegal.

The following is reported to have been handed:
in on a memory work quiz at the Davidson gram-
mar school:

Liza Grape men allry mindus

Weaken maka Liza Blime

Andy Parting Lee B. Hindus

Foot brims Johnny Sands a time.

A very successful Dad’s Day was held at La-
fayette College last week with the fathers of over
three hundred students present.

=

Day” should be held here. Regular ballots
with all the candidates and the positions
they are seeking should be printed and the
polls left open all day. This would eliminate
all the rush of voting at chapel period and
give all men a chance to vote, and consider
all of the candidates for quite a period before

_ they vote upon them.

|

Being the son of good Presbyterians, it never
occurred to me that there was any possiblyity of a
truth being found in astrology, palmistry, or the
like.. All of these occult arts, it seemed to me,
defied the basic doctrines of free will and pre-
destination. Hence my cynicism. The past week-
end I might say shattered my illusions, at least
certain events caused me to.reconsider the signs
and omens of the heavens and the palms.

For there came one from afar, feminine of
course, and possessed of an intellect rarely found
in the usual week-end visitor. A journalist she
professed to be, but palmistry was included in her
lore. Having no unpublished secrets, either tainted
or otherwise embarrassing, I permitted her to delve
into my present character, past and future life.
One glance at my palms was enough to convince
her that I had been afflicted with a serious illness
in my infancy almost ending in death, nor could I
deny it. In three more minutes she had exposed
my inmost characteristics better than I could have
done it myself. In a final effort she predicted
sixty years as my final time limit and a possibility
of a stroke of apoplexy at the age of thirty-five,
which of course has imbued the feeling of an
electric chair’s victim in me, and has caused me
to doubt her prowess to some extent. At the same

time her attempts at character analysis on other

victims were equally successful.

Lest someone suggest a rule banning such omi-
nous prophets from the campus let me say that she
professes to possess no mystic powers. Rather she
is doubtful herself whether the truth can always
be revealed through such an uncertain medium.
She simply follows the rules of the game as laid
down by the Chinese, a little farther back than
man has been able to remember. Still her
prophesies have been fulfilled. One unfortunate
lad was discovered to possess a terrible catastrophe
or unprecedented success in his “life line.” Three
weeks later he was drowned, which doesn’t make
me feel a bit better about my approaching attack
of St. Vitus Dance or whatever it is.

An then again that night simply has been an-
other lucky, or rather unlucky strike. The tale is
told of an eighteenth century diviniator who after
making a thorough study of the subject, pro-
nounced palmistry and all of its sister sciences un-
truths. One o!d lady was not so easily convinced,
however, and inisted that she be told where a cer-
tain lost jewel lay, through the medium of her
paim. In desperation the supposed possessor of
mystic powers concocted a fictitious prophecy and
told her to dig at a certain spot. Unfortunately
the jewel was unearthed upon a search at the
given place. :

Palmistry, as an art, was first divided into three
parts with distinct objectives. The Chinese, in dis-
covering the secret, only attempted to define one’s
character through the lines of the hands. Later,
however, it was’ discovered that certain things
conld be told about the subject’s past life and this
became a separate and distinct science. Still later
the unscrupulous began to practice the art and.to
increase pecuniary returns attempted to delve into
the future. Today we have a combination of the
three and it is exceedingly difficult to distinguish
absurdities from partial truths, the line between be-
ing very thin because of the uncertain nature of
the practice. Certain elements of astrology have
even entered into the game and of course we
all feel that the later is an exceedingly impotent
practice. The best authorities seem'to agree now
that certain traits of character and past actions
can be determined but that the remainder of the
art isa myth. Even these characteristics, however,
are determined partially by the shapes of the fing-
ers and. as a resnlt one may change from good to
bad or visa versa simply by exercising his digits.

The same feminine visitor imparted other knowl-
edgs to me. Often I have longed to sit in on the
conversation that takes place in exclusive female
company after a week-end party in any of the
boarding houses. My wishes have been partially
gratified in receiving certain of the conversation
verbatim. Suffice it to say that to blackmail has
become my sole ambition. Let those who wish
thes private lives to remain unexposed send a
communication to Box 251 with a five dollar bill.
Don’t miss this opportunity, if you have a guilty
conscience.

—W. L. L.

At Mississippi. A. & M. elections are in full
swing now. At this institution, candidates an-
ounce that they will run for various positions.
According to reports; the lists are full:

The Duke golf team has secured a professional
to coach the squad. The cheer leader will be out
soon to plead for great silence as the number one
man sights a three foot putt. i

uc
