THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 19, 1928

FRESH COMPETE

(Continued from page 1)
played in the line on the Freshman football
team. Glidewell is a pledge to the Beta
Theta Pi social fraternity. His home is
Reidsville, N. C.

A committee of upperclassmen was ap-
pointed for the purpose of counting the votes.
The members of this committee were Piggy
Wearn, Hugh Arrowood and Bob Kell.

The Wednesday night meeting was held
at 6:30, due to the fact that there was a
basketball game between Davidson and Duke
University.

At some date in the near future the presi-
dent of the class will be installed on the
Student Council, at which date the Freshman
class will become formally a part of the
student body, and as such will be allowed to
take part in all voting and other student
body activities. :

“KING EXAM”

(Continued from page 1)
little too much on’ their trail, and that they
really had more coming to them.. With all
these feelings, however, which are natural
ones at a time like this, probably the one
which strikes men most is the feeling that

=

they should try harder to show their appre-
ciation for the folks back home. The great-
est thrill, after all, comes when Dad pats his
son on the back during spring holidays, and
says, “Son, we’re proud of you.” The cul-
mination of a,whole year’s work is bound up
in these words, which help the college man
to carry on to bigger and better things.

Exams., bad as they seem, can be subju-
gated so that they no longer take on the
aspect of monsters. The secret is no new
one; it is a fact that is simply neglected by
most boys. This is the point of studying
before the last night. Exams. seem worst
when a fellow has to’sit up all night before
“boning.” If he woud take advantage of his
off days, of his spare time before the actual
exam, then he could go into the final prepa-
ration with only a few minor details to con-
quer. He tould cause a regular massacre
over about Chambers building, because all
he would have to do is pick up his tablet and
start “shooting.” Incidentally, a little
shooting of this nature here in college would
help most men to hit the mark when they
buck up against Old Man World, that Titan
who takes such delight in tripping young
fellows. Now is the time, and here is the
place to get that necessary training in mark-
manship.

Davidson

Next Week

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
Emil Jannings in “The Last Command”

WEDNESDAY
Esther Ralston in “Love and Learn”

THURSDAY

Lois Moran and George O’Brien in
“Sharp Shooters”

FRIDAY
Richard Barthelmess in “The Noose”

SATURDAY

Theatre

“Y” Column

The Y vesper service this Sunday will
be a program under the leadership of the
C. E. T. C., which will include a devo-
tional service and talks appropriate to
the occasion. The following week the
Ministerial Band will take charge of the
service, and will have a similar program
arranged. ‘Since the Volunteer Band was
represented in the service last week, when
Allan Frew and Glenn Fry spoke on the

three main religious organizations on the
Hill will thus have been leaders of Y
services, This will bring about a feeling
that more are having a part in the work
of the Y and will put a better spirit of
fellowship in the Student Body.

Seid Yu,
The Y Board of Control has instructed
the secretary to get out a booklet ex-
plaining the work of the Y in its different
phases, fields, and the like. This pamph-
let will include a brief report of what has
been done by the Y in the past year and
will also have much valuable informa-
tion concerning the Master’s work on the
Davidson campus. A copy of the book-
let will be given each student, trustee and
faculty member. It is hoped that this will
prove a very valuable work, especially in
that it is the first of its kind to be gotten
up by the Davidson Y. M. C. A.

Seeyo
The student body, as well as the Y, has
by this time all but finished one semester’s
work. Much has been done in that time.
Many new problems and difficulties have
come into the life of each student, In
many ways it has been a testing period in
the life of the men here. And it is the
earnest hope of the Y that its work has
not been for nought, but that the fellows
have found in it an every-ready friend and
able adviser. It also hopes that some-
thing worth while has been gained, that
His work and cause may grow and en-
large its scope until it become a vital and
real thing in the life of every man on the
campus. And it is with the sincere de-
sire to attain this place in the hearts and
minds of the men of Davidson that the
Y starts the new semester.

GUILFORD, DUKE, FURMAN
WIN

(Continued from page 1)
Jankoskie (19) ~..G________ McAulay (4)

conference held during the holidays, the

Gibson (5) ------- Giosacoscese Crawford
Wilkins (3) --.--- Gassasacs Harrison (2)

Substitutions—For Furman: Byrne. For
Davidson: Hewlette (4), and Kugler.

Referee: Rawson (Ga.); timekeeper: Mat-
tox (W. & L.); score at end of half: Fur-
man 17, Davidson 11.

Last Monday night, Coach “Pat” Craw-
ford brought his hard-fighting Guilford
squad up for a game and, the visitors were
again victorious. Using a fast passing and
pivoting offense, the Guilford boys were able
to eke out a bare 28-26 victory, the winning
point being scored in the last minute of :play.
Although obviously young, the Guilford men
seemed to have an uncanny ability to get
their hands on the ball and keep it. The
sphere was in their possession at least two-
thirds of the entire time. Coltrane, run-
ning guard for the visitors, opened up in the
last half and shot 9 points, giving him a to-
tal of 10 for the night. Haworth, forward,
started off the game in whirlwind fashion,
getting three baskets in the first few min-
nutes, but Charlie Harrison soon tracked
him down and Davidson was troubled with
him no more. Pat Crawford had his men in
fine shape, not a single substitution being
made, yet the team looked able to keep up
indefinitely the same regular pace that mark-
ed its playing. -Captain eBn again was Da-
vidson’s mainstay, but he shared honors with
Johnny Kugler, flashy substitute forward,
who sank four out of five tries from the
field for 8 points. Kugler was the only man
consistently following up the shots at the
basket, and will probably see quite a bit of
service before the season is over.

The line-up:
Guilford. Position. Davidson.
Haworth (7) ~----- Bovseeee McAulay (4)
Coble (5) --------- Neseeeeue Pritchett (6)
Moore (4) -L------ Gees soees Wilson (8)
Yelverton (2) ----- Gee eee ee Harrison
Coltrane (10) --2-2Gl 2-2 Crawford

Substituitions—Guilford, none. Davidson:

Hewlette, Kugler. Referee: Rawson (Ga.).
Score at half: Guilford 12, Davidson 10.

“The Monroe Doctrine, instead of bring-
ing the Latin-American countries into
closer contact with the United States, had
eliminated from the minds of Latin-
American peoples all fear of aggression
from any portion of the world but the
United States.”—Leo. S. Rowe, director-
general of the Pan-American Union.

NORRIS TROPHY

and it is a very great honor because of ifs
widely known name, because of what it rep-
resents, and because of ‘the trophy itself.
The cup is a very handsome loving cup of
considerable dimensions, with appropriate en-
graving upon it. It also becomes the per-
sonal property of the winner and makes a
very beautiful keepsake.

Last year the cup was won by Earnest
Bohannon, of Davidson, N. C. Bohannon
was a varsity football man and a varsity
track man, and was quite prominent in both
fields. He was also president of the David-
son College Athletic Association, and a
prominent man in his class. The election
this year will not be held until some time in
the spring, but enthusiasm and interest have
already been aroused among the students,
and it will naturally grow to a much greater
extent by the first of May.

For any one who is interested in the. de-
tails and rules of the contest, a copy of the
Rules of Award can be obtained from the
White Drug Company by application. The
cup will be put on display in the show win-
dow of the drug store at some time later in
the year.

A statue erected to Matthew KFontain
Maury in Richmond Va., recalls his serv-
ices to the country. Maury’s nautical and
meteorological observations aided not on-
ly the United States Navy but also the
farmers of his day, and became the fore-
runner of the Weather Bureau. He was
also one of the original progenitors of the
United States Naval Academy.

Contrary to popular belief, the beaver
is far from extinct in this country. There
are 62,000 in Colorado and Montana alone,

and the number is increasing.
]

Fresh Country Vegetables

STAPLE AND FANCY
GROCERIES

Fellows, see us for replenishing
your Fraternity House larders

BARNETT AND COMPANY

DAVIDSON, N. C.

66

Farley (8) —----.. Gees Harrison

Substitutions — For Duke: Chandler,
Brantley, Bennett, Rogers, and Weaver. For
Davidson: Kugler, Crawford (7). Referee:
Gullickson ; umpire: Rawson’ (Ga.). Score
at end of half: Duke 26, Davidson 16,

Capt. Tim McCoy in “Spoilers of the West”

Do’ Europe
Week After Next iH )

MONDAY On Friday, the 13th incidentally, the Fur-
Ruth Taylor in “Gentlemen Prefcr Blondes” man Hurricane breezed in and annexed a
game by the score of 33-25. Davidson’s play
TUESDAY was considerably improved over the Duke
George Jessel in “Ginsberg the Great” game, but bad passing and wild shots again Expenses!
let a game get away. Captain Ben Wilson
WEDNESDAY ; played a great game at guard, and had he
“Beau Sabreur” 4 not been so active in batting down opponents‘
Ne shots, the score would have been one-sided.
_ THURSDAY Carl Pritchett found his eye and shot 13
A eve ° ” points under very heavy guarding. Hew- 1
Richard Dix in “Sporting Goods lette came through with a couple of field (/
goals in this game. For Furman, Captain
Nova ae Pp ' ¥) Dorman, with 11 points, and “Lefty” Huff, ly |
artners with 8, were outstanding. | a College ;
SATURDAY The line-up follows: Ws i = . 9
CL f th R 53) Furman. Position. Davidson. Humor s
aw o e mange Ruft(8)) 2c ee ) Sate ce areas McAulay oe
Dorman (11) —---- | eae oes Pritchett (13) C¢ Ii '
Brabham (6) —----- Geshu ees Wilson (6) C4 ) egia e Our

e FUROPE

Sailing eastward from Montreal July 22, 1928, a happy
SEE group of college men and women will set out to “do”
Europe in a campus-like atmosphere of good-fellowship,
under the auspices of “College Humor.’ GQ Down the
mighty St. Lawrence we'll go, and across the Atlantic—

Since 1868
the Home of Good Shoes

— We Have 7

A Complete Line of Drugs
and Sundries

A res k J k with ages ape Leapelb wy ticr via to furnish ee
There tournameni
rac er ac tMasquerades to the ocean yes a Seesotatha

“house party at sea.” Q Then Europe! We'll see it
under the guidance of the Art Crafts Guild Travel
Bureau, orginators of the juscly famed Collegiate Tours.
They will make all reservations, handle all details, fur-
nish experienced couriers and guides. We just go along
and enjoy ourselves! We sail homeward fay 14 from

| Shoe for
College Men .

White Drug Co.

--- at only --- Cherbours onthe famous Canadian Pree tesa |
$7.50 MAYHEW’S eae

| We would like
to show you them!

with a “ ey
a pled omy Tl ges

CLEANERS AND DYERS

BUSINESS APPRECIATED $:-:

COLLEGE HUMOR, 1050 North La Salle Se., Chicago, Ill.

Please send me complete information regarding College

SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
Humor's Collegiate Tour to Europe.

Students, Our Plant is at Your Service

DICK GREY, Representaative fy Seedesaeoeem AMEE = =
Davideon, N. C. : _— : : .

Phone 82-3

E. N- LINKER, Owner sate

nly

