THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 31, 1929

=

Wildcat Eleven Again Bows to Wake Forest Jinx

Side Line Shots

By P. R. Alderman

At a Battle With An Old Enemy

That scrap in Greensboro last Saturday
proved one thing at least—the Deacons
still have that old jinx on us and don't
seem to want to turn loose. Nothing can
last forever, though, and there’s one con-
solation in the fact that this hoodoo is
now eight years old, beginning to exercise
his powers in 1922, so we can all at least
hope for an early funeral.

For the first time this season the
Wildcat was not allowed the satis-
faction of at least crossing the en-
emy’s goal, a thing which even the
Army’s big guns and the Clemson
Tiger’s ferociousness were unable to
withhold. Only once before in David-
son-Wake Forest grid annals have
the Cats been unable to cross the last
marker—in 1923 when the Deacons
won 6-0,

Whether it is of any significance or not.
it remains a fact that this game was
played and lost away from home, and
furthermore that the Red and Black war-
riors have proved more than a match
for any opponent on Richardson Field
this season. This should at least render
the situation gloomy as V. M. I., Carolina
and Duke are to be met here at Davidson.

The scrimmage between the Kittens
and Varsity last week seems to have
proved a little more helpful to the
Fresh than’ to Coach Monk’s co-
hort’s. As a result Brohard and Chris-
tian. were added to the number that

warmed the bench while the Deacons
were putting over a tally. This list
also included McQ . Mason and
Brown, although Mason did.take Mil-
ton’s place after the had
started.

When a team has such tackles as Webb
and Williams to open up a highway for
speedy backs like Cox, Mills and Quillen
to dash through things aren’t going to be
so favorable for the opposing eleven. The
Cats had this fact thoroughly impressed
on them by the Deacons last week, this
combination proving more disastrous to
Davidson than any other one thing prob-
ably

“Little but Loud” was undoubtedly
the most appropriate nickname of
“Red” Parrish in the Deacon- Wildcat
tilt. It didn’t,take those Demon backs
long to learn that a 146-pound Wildcat
can take up entirely too much room on
the gridiron and also that this terri-
tory was not for trespass either by
the aerial or ground route. Joe Mc-
Call at half, Brock at end, and
Borneo Baker at tackle also played

their usual stellar games.

One can never tell exactly how things
are going to come out in the state cham-
pionship race, even after several games
have been played. But, it can be said that
Davidson is not yet the tenant of the
lowermost position. Wake Forést has beat
us it’s true, but they’ve also lost two
games to Big Five members and with
Carolina and Duke to be met on home
territory the Wildcats are pretty apt to
damage the old dope bucket.

The strong Rutherford team further
attested to the strength ofthe Wild-
kittens by biting the dust to the tune
of 19-0. It can be said without much
hesitation that the Fresh eleven this
year shows signs of being the best one
in at least three years. There’s some

DEACON DRIVE DOWN FIELD
IN OPENING PERIOD SCORES
ONLY TOCHDOWN OF GAME

Davidson Passing Attack Broken up
by Fast-Charging Line of
Wake Forest

PARRISH DEFENSIVE STAR

Wildcats Threaten to Score Twice
But Are Stopped

A heavy Wake Forest line charged the
Davidson Wildcats off their feet last Satur-
day, and succeeded in putting over a victory
by a 6 to 0 score. The Deacon forward wall,
one of the heaviest that the Cats have faced
this year, time and again opened wide gaps
for their charging backs to dash through.
The Davidson offensive could get nowhere
against their heavier and the
Wildcats were held for the first
time this season.

opponents

SCC yreless

The Baptists’ power lay in their heavy
line, and most of their gains were made
through it! Qhey’ hardly ever resorted to
passes to advance the ball, but gave it to
Quillen, Benton, Cox, or others who would
smash off tackle or through the line to rip
off substantial gains. A smooth-working in-
terference also aided the backs a great deal.

The Wildcat passing attack
that has figured so largely for Davidson in
the last two. games was almost completely
broken up. The passers were rushed
badly that they did not have time to pick
their receivers, and an alert secondary batted
down many of the balls that were sent their
way. Fraley and Brock were forced to play
a game of hide-and-seek with the rushers
at times before they could get the ball out of
their hands.

sensational

so

In spite of the way in which they. were out-
played most of the game, -the ’Cats threat-
ened seriously to score twice in the last half.
Brock passed 25 yards to Parrish, then Mc-
Call picked up ten more. However, the next
two plays were stopped at the line, then a
pass went over the goal-line to give Wake
Forest the ball on its own twenty yard line.
Again, late in the fourth quarter, a fumbled
punt which Davidson recovered gave them
the ball on the Deacon’s 35 yard line. With
only time for one more play, Brock passed,
but the throw was intercepted as the game
was over. /

Wake Forest made their only score @arly
in the game. Taking the ball on their own
46 yard line, they smashed their way ‘down
the field. to Davidson's four yard line. Then
Mills went around his left end for the touch-
down. The try for point was blocked.

The Deacons were able to push the ball
to the fifteen yard in the fourth quarter, but
the Wildcats braced here and held them for
downs, the ball going over.

Besides its stellar ball-toters, Wake Forest
had two other outstanding stars in its gaint
tackles, Webb and Williams. They tore up
the ’Cat line in a fearful manner and were
very fast for men of their size. The interfer-
ence of the Baptists played havoc with Wild-
cat attempts to stop the backs a number of
times, and greatly aided the Demon’s attack.

None of the Davidson back could get going
enough to be considered as an offensive star.
But little Red Parrish turned in a whale
of a game on the defense. He stopped many
runners after they had emerged into the
secondary area for what seemed long gain.
Baker at right tackle and Brock left end
were outstanding at their positions. Brock
also did excellent punting, getting off several
of his kicks almost through the arms of the
Deacon forwards.

great material at/Coach “Red” Laird's
disposal and before the season is over
he should make this fact pretty widely
known.

Schedule For Fresh
Grid Team Changed

Due to unavoidable situations that have
arisen in the past few weeks certain changes

have been necessitated in the Freshmen grid
schedule for this season. Besides the Oak
Ridge game, which the first on the
Kitten schedule and the Duke Fresh game
to be played on November 22

was

the rest have
been changed from their original dates.

Two teams have already been met, the
one with the Oak Ridge cadets “resulting in
a tie and the Rutherford eleven bowing to
the Fresh by the score of 180-. Of the re-
maining games, two are with teams in the
state while the other is with the Wofford
Freshmen.

Following is a schedule for the three re-
maining tilts to be engaged in by the Kittens :

November 1—N. C. State Fresh at David-
son,

November 15—Wofford Fresh at David-
sol.

November 22——Duke Fresh at Durham,

FOOTBALL SUPERSTITIONS

“Tl have never worn a pair of bootball
stockings in a game since my high school
days,” says Al Marsters, Dartmouth’s star
halfback, in his article “Football Supersti-
tions,” in the November College Humor.

“This atmosphere of superstition stayed
with me through prep school and my fresh-
man years at Dartmouth, and in my sopho-
more year I developed a new one. I had
played fairly consistent, but not too brilliant,
football during my freshman year and con-
sequently did not expect to make the regular
position upon the varsity my sophomore year.
I was surprised when the .coach read my
name off in the starting line-up of the first
game and having a slight feeling of inferior-
ity as we went from the locker building, I
was the last man of the first team to leave
the building. From then on, throughout the
rest of the season, I was the eleventh man
to go upon the field. Naturalty, when the
1928 season came around, I was still the
last man to go upon the field. Everything
went well for the first three games and |
was leading the scorers of the country at
that time, when I cracked one of my bones
in my ankle and I believed that my luck had
left me.”

.N. C. FRESHMEN TAKE

INTELLIGENCE TESTS

All graduates from North Carolina
schools last spring were required to take
an intelligence test sometime during April.
The individual indications of the college
that the graduate intended to attend were
made in the paper. When the papers are
graded the final reports of the standing of
the students will be sent to the college
mentioned in the papers for the purpose
of comparing that paper with other grades

Line-up and summary:

Wake Forest Position Davidson
Edwards --------- 1G) Op epsrepaiee Brock (C)
Williams ~-------. | C3 Wi eee ate epape Raker
Mentonves.2. 222s BG ieee seese3 DeCamp
Patkenen=-coseue Gentetecesssesoo5 Milton
15 6 (el (<p eaguepe aes egg RG yor Se ee Mills
Wiebbie= 52-2 222s RAR es aces Baker
Gregson _-------- RB oes eee Proctor
Quillen: --22-2-5-% OBrsrescceses Fraley
Cox (CG) 226522 as |) & Ge eae ae Parrish
Mills: 22S Ses REY ce sslescoe McCall
Benton ------ Bee UM By sec Seen cae King

Scoring touchdowns: Mills (Wake For-
est). Substitutions: Wake Forest, Placa,
Hutchins, Brogden, Hipps, DuPre, Newson,
Zimmerman, Covington; Davidson, ..Mason,
Mathis, Goodykoontz, D.° Bradshaw, Hew-
lett, McConnell, M. Bradshaw, Covington.

Officials: Referee, Magoffin (Michigan) ;
umpire, Brice (Auburn); head linesman,
Brewer (Maryland).

Davidson Men Prominent

At Richmond Seminary

Three of Four Officers Elected Are

Davidsonians

Three of the four officers who were re-
cently elected to lead the Junior class of
Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, are
graduates of Davidson of 1929, R. B. Camp-
bell, Washington and Lee, was elected presi-
dent; R. F. Sloop, vice-president; Aubrey
Brown, secretary-treasurer ; and Frank Hall,
councilman.

Three of the seven holders of fellowships,
likewise, are Davidson men. Dunbar H. Og-
den, Jr., is the Moses D. Hoge Fellow. A.
Hayden Hollingsworth, Jr., is the Chas. D.
Larus Fellow and D. R. Bitzer holds the
Walter W. Moore Fellowship.

The same proportion holds true with the
Seminary quartet: which has J. S. Grey, J.
H. Caligan and Tom Hamilton, all of David-
son, and John Cunningham, Hampden-Syd-

—

made by the student during his Fresh-

ney.

man year in college,

North Carolina College Conference has
giving these intelligence — tests
through the department of Public © In-
struction and now they are studying what
productive value these tests have when
compared with mere graduation from high
school. It has been found, that if college

been

entrance was granted on the standing ac-
quired by the results of these tests, rath-
er than on mere graduation from an ac-
credited high school there would be fewer
men to fail. Statistics show that out of
one hundred men entering college who
had graduated from accredited high
schools, fifty failed to make good, where-
as out of one hundred men who passed
this psychological test, ninety made good.

Dr. Frazer Hood, head of the psychol-
ogy department, and Prof. L. B. Hender-
son, head of the educational department

of Davidson College manage Davidson's
part.

They report that Davidson’ students,
when compared with students of other
schools show an ability above the average.

Davidson Tackle

Barneo Baker, who was one of the main-
stays of the Wildcat Line against the
Wake Forest eleven Saturday.

| STOP

that
COLD and COUGH
take

CoiaeX

[he “QUICK RELIEF’ Cold Kemedy for
Collede Students, sold by» Colles. Student

YOUR vRUGGISI |
L HAS COL DEX

Jim Galloway
U. of S.C. -

—_——— 9

e

“Drugs”

A Complete Drug Store —::

WELCOME

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

“Soda”

“Sundries” “Prescriptions”

SEE «> HEAR

The New
DICTOR MICRO-
SYUNCRONOUS RADIO
AND RADIOLA

See CThem At
PARKER GARDNER CO.

16 West CIrade St.
CHARLOTTE, fi. C.

Victor &
Brunswick
Records-
Furniture
And
Draperies

