| *

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 24, 1929

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
iegiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

ZEB_ V. LONG, Jr.

Editor-in-Chief
E. H. McCALL

Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

Ji BE OBUA GRiveatircd es aide oie eae, Managing Editor
i W. McCUTCHAN Managing Editor

+7 CPRAGIN Matieance ees SUS rs eS Managing Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN. --,Athletic Editor
J. F. PRESTON... Feature Editor
Js tls BROW Nieas. coe oo aa ee Feature Editor
R. F. JARRATT.... Associate Editor
F. D. MILLER ---Associate Editor
C, M. PRATT... “2 Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

Js Al GCANNON( wu cccusocsawancce sects eee rece Asst. Bus. Mgr.
Li dare BOYD taeiviadecesssee ...-Subscription Mgr.
As Ji SBARE Rigas csc ccsucue teks ae oe ee a oe ea Solicitor
P. M. CONWAY .--Solicitor
J. H -Solicitor
Us Or OMANN sateen basse c solace ear aaa Solicitor
Je By MMi ieu cies cue baud suas su ledes ci sgu tk weoURe Solicitor
Neen OF; --Solicitor
————————

i Cc. & DUNRL

i ; In
b& IN W.%, LEA

J. R. SMITH C. W. F. SPENCER
D. 0. STEPHENSON W. T. HANCOCK
A. H. WHITEHEAD JOHN M. BROWN
R. F. NORTY G. P. PARDINGTON
a —— — OcVcVcVVV3Qo3uQ54ouncc:.s

OCTOBER 24, 1929
—=———————hBBaB_SS———S
THE DAVIDSONIAN

—Welcomes Dr. Sam Glasgow to the campus and

urges every student to support the services
starting Sunday.

—Thinks the Queens Glee Club is a worthy organi-
zation.

—Would rather whip Wake Forest than eat Sun-
day dinner.

—Reminds the Wildcats that not since Monk

Younger came here have the Deacons bowed to
Davidson.

—Wislies good luck to Red Laird’s Wildkittens as
they tackle. Rutherford College tomorrow.

—Commends The Citadel for one of the best teams
seen here in many moons.

—Enjoyed the drill exhibition Saturday—saw one
cadet with a spot on his shoe.

aa
—Tips off the score keepers to give the Wildcats
seven points per touchdown as long as Thad
Brock is behind the place kick.

YOUNGER’S WAY

That Citadel game last Saturday was a
revelation in more ways than one. The
superb fighting of Monk Younger’s little
Wildcat team against an apparently strong-
er eleven was. added proof that Davidson’s
season is just starting. Somebody is in for
a big surprise before Monk puts up the
moleskins for another year. If the Cats can

concentrate on each game, taking them as
they come, and giving everything to the
particular contest at hand, we have great
faith in their ability to be the prize sensa-
tion of the season 1929, Those who expected
to see a'ragged, weary group of men take
the field after a gallant fight against Army
were rudely shocked. Instead they saw a
team scrapping harder than ever, holding a
powerful offense in check, and then, at the
crucial moment, springing an amazing aerial
attack which exceeded anything shown by
Davidson teams in the past two seasons.
And this was the team that sports writers
couldn’t even rate as high as the type in

their papers—to read Wade Ison in The
Charlotte News.

What Davidson lacks in the way of star
material she has in plain, old-fashioned
spunk, and we refuse to, side with these gen-
erous critics of “Little Davidson” who
would relegate her to.a back shelf, Citadel’s

_ Offensive thrusts in the first half of that
game Saturday would have netted two
_touchdowns against an ordinary team. Don’t
leave Monk Younger’s craft or the scrapp-
ing qualities of his men out of your calcu-
lations in the future. And with practically
the whole squad back next fall plus a hefty
crowd of freshman, things won’t be so bad,
will they? Side up with Monk as he sends
those scrappers out on the field. He is the
Stonewall Jackson of Southern. football.

SAM GLASGOW AND CHRIST

Each Sunday evening the “Y” procures
an outstanding man to talk at the Vesper
Service. From the very nature of the case
our most common reaction to the meeting is
a reaction on the character and personality
of the speaker. The man who speaks is en-
tirely different each. Sunday and we are
concerned more with the man than with the
message. And this is all very well because
there is a vital message, aside from the mes-
sage which he speaks, in each man whom
the “Y” schedules.

But during the fall evangelistic services
beginning Sunday a different situation will
arise. Sunday night we will return from
Chambers remarking upon the personality
and the driving force of Sam Glasgow. Our
admiration for him will reach a great height.
But there will be six other messages follow-
ing and as we return from each of these
Sam Glasgow will be eclipsed in our thought
by a far greater personality. Our comments
will not be on the speaker, but rather on
the Christ that the speaker has presented
to us.

We will find ourselves formulating a new
and higher conception of the redeeming
grace which is Christ. New channels of serv-
ice and loyalty will be revealed. A new in-
spiration to serve will be forthcoming.

The “Y” holds the semi-annual meetings
as the very greatest part of its program. It
feels that more can be accomplished here
than in any other field. Vocational Guidance
is an important part of the program; depu-
tations play a vital part. But we must first
believe that Christ has a mighty claim on
our lives and our services before we can de-
cide what field of work we shall enter for
Him. We must first be gripped with the con-
viction that He calls for our all, before we
can put forth our fullest and best in busi-
ness, in teaching, in law, or in whatever
field our services may lie.

The first four days of next week are days
in which we should forget our usual trend
of life. The faculty will co-operate in light-
ening the scholastic work. We should sub-
ordinate all other cares during this period
and think on the question of ourselves and
God. It should be a period of deeper devo-
tion and higher spirituality.

To accomplish the greatest for Christ dur-
ing this meeting we should not miss a‘single
message that Sam Glasgow has for us. Each
message will grow out of the previous one
and if a single one is missed we have dropped
a link from the chain. Prayer is another
thing. In our private prayer, in the prayer
group on each floor of the dormitories, the
meeting and its results should be held upper-
most in the thoughts of all, so that with the
blessing of God we may make this meeting
neecuel top experience in our spiritual
ife.

F. D.M.

JOIN A LITERARY SOCIETY

In this day of social diversification of the
students should one affiliate himself or her-
self with a literary society?

The Gamecock answers yes because after
all does any organization completely fulfill
the purpose of a literary society? Let us
look into the other organizations on the
campus and see if they fulfill the mission of
a literary society. o

The athletics that one finds in our colleges
certainly do not train a man in the art of
self-expression in a verbal way. There is a
vast difference in an address by a literary
man and the bark of a quarterback as he
calls his signals.

Does one find self-expression in a club,
fraternity, glee” club, band, or any other
campus organization as he finds it in the
literary society? No, these organizations
serve their purpose but none of them can
fulfill the purpose of a literary society.

Many of the most influential men of the
state will tell you that they received their
training, for a public career, in a literary
society, in one of the institutions of higher
learning in our state or country.

Who are the leaders on our campus? If
you will take the trouble to look them up,
you will find that over ninety-five per cent
of them belong to a literary society. Ask
them what they are deriving from the soci-
eties and they will tell you, in most cases,
that it has been the means of making men
out of themselves.

The Gamecock feels that if these men can
derive benefits from a society, that others
can‘also. The societies will be glad to have
you, so take advantage of these golden op-

portunities to join one before it is too late— _

South Carolina “Gamecock.”

Cosmic Chaos
J. 'W. McCutchan

6

All states have had their troubles with the high-
way finance problem. The coming gubernatorial
campaign in South Carolina will have as its main
issue, a $65,000,000.00 bond issue. North Carolina has
issued and has continued to issue millions of bonds.
Virginia, on the other hand, has adopted the “pay
as you go” plan. Citizens of both states protest
mightily and with much gusto. Any modern meth-
od of financing state improvements should be wel-
comed with rejoicing, Pro-consuls and consuls no
longer extort drachmas or sesterces, casting their
people in degraded poverty for the luxurious
splendor of their own villas.

For years, cats have been the pets of royalty,
of the bourgeois, and of the plebians. Recent-
ly a beautiful Maltese was freed from a pad-
locked cabaret by order of a Federal Judge.
A beautiful thuoght, and quick action by the
S. P. C. A.! Fluffy felines are well-suited to
sit and sleep by the open fire; they have
been known to catch rodents. But we can’t
refrain from thinking of neighbors, we have
have known, who have kept a bounteous
supply of old shoes and slippers for midnight
serenades, ue

At quite a recent: date, Federal agents have un-
covered one of the largest booze rings in existence.
Operating from the Atlantic seaboard to the Mis-
sissippi river, fhis combine was veritably satura-
ting the country. Every member had a legitimate
business or profession. They felt themselves ab-
solutely safe. The only manner in which prohi-
bition agents were able to detect the system was
by placing secret operatives to work with suspects.
Regardless of the moral question as to whether
officers of the law should use questionable meth-
ods to obtain convictions, the fact remains that the
government does intend to enforce the Volstead
Act. It will be enforced!

Benito Mussolini, to the surprise of everyone,
has relinquished seven of the ministerial posts
which he himself held. Many deemed this a
relaxation of the dictatorship. But it must be
clear that this man, an entire government with-
in himself, is merely showing that foresight

» which has characterized his former coup de
etats. He realizes that he must, in time, return
to dust. His love for Italy is too great to permit
himeelf to forget its future. It must not become
as Rome after Caesar, as France after Napo-
leon, or as Austria after Franz Joseph.

Emil Ludwig, in a recent edition of the Ameri-
can Magazine, has dared to name the world’s ten
greatest women. Foremost in his choice were those
women who were God-fearing, and home-loving.
Some of them, it is true, did not remain at home,
but that was because they felt the call of a greater
work elsewhere. Perhaps the main exception to
this statement was his first choice, Aspasia, who
was the chief impetus behind that great Greek,
Pericles. Catherine of Siena, Joan of Arc, Queen
Elizabeth, Maria Theresa, Madame de Maintenon,
Florence Nightingale, Harriet Beecher Stowe,
Madame Curie, and Eleanor Duse complete the
list.

Ludwig shows very clearly that a woman need
not be notorious or famous to be a great woman.
He did not mention Cleopatra or Lucretia Borgia.
But Ludwig omitted the greatest woman of all.
Every man, every boy, every woman has —»A
MOTHER!

Everybody is chewing Wrigley’s gum. It is a
practical advertisement to say the least. Wrig-
ley is a good and consistent advertiser. His
baseball team, the Chicago Cubs, are a living
one. Home runs and base-bits say more than
a good many Saturday Evening Posts. A pen-
nant winner speaks in more ways than one.
However, we can't help but feel that if the
Cubs had won the -World’s Series we would

——— =

MASON AND DIXON’S LINE

Few southern people know the details surrounding this
survey which became the most

frequently mentioned imaginary
line in the world.

Nearly two centuries after the trouble began,
which caused this survey to be made, Louis F.
Hart recently visited the border line between
Maryland and Pennsylvania, in a pilgrimage to the
original Mason, and Dixon’s Line. Mr. Hart not
only visited the actual spot where Charles Mason
and Jeremiah Dixon started their famous survey

‘but spent a great deal of time gathering data and

illustrations around which to build the story of
the famous piece of engineering.

Using HOLLAND'S, The Magazine of the South,
as his vehicle, Mr. Hart says, “Time changes all
things. Old hatreds die and new loyalties are born,
but the demarcation between peoples—especially
when it goes back, as this one does, to the Round-

Smokehouse Saga
By W. C. Ragin
(Published Weakly)

It was the day of the Davidson-Citadel football
game. The weather was perfect, it being just the
kind of a day that radio announcers rave over and
sandwich in between breath-taking plays. I draped
over to the stadium in my Sunday best, got a good
seat on the fifty-yard line (or as near to the fifty-
yard line as good seats go), purchased a bag of
peanuts (hot-dogs being unavailable), and settled
down to enjoy the game. But alas, alas (yes, a lass
was the cause of my misfortune), the Fates had
decreed that things should not thus come to pass.

Hardly had I munched a dozen goobers when in
stalks a fellow student and his girl. They looked
in vain for a couple of seats, and not finding any,
they came over and sat down by me. Still I had no
premonition of any impending disaster, and I was
even carefree enought to down another Tom’s
Toasted with gusto, who, by the way, is one peach
of a guy. The game progressed rapidly and finally
arrived at that hat-crushing part when Davidson
held Citadel for four downs, the ball being left on
what appeared to be the two millimeter line. Nat-
urally, the spectators went wild, as spectators will
do, and raised the very dickens. At this crucial
point, the young lady turned to her escort and
announced, “Oh, I’m so disappointed that I could
weep! I mean I really could.” At this, her gentle-
man friend turned pale, gasped a time or two, and
finally asked that soul-searching question, “Why?”
“Oh,” she lithped, “Davidson didn’t score.’ The
aforesaid escort at last pounded it through her
dome that it was Citadel that had almost scored,
although she insisted that Davidson should wear
blue, because it was more becoming.

After this, I began to eat my peanuts rather
mechanically while the game raged on. During the
last quarter, one of the teams turned on an oppos-
ing player as one man, stepped daintily in his face,
trampled him quite artistically, and left him lying
on the cold, cold ground. Hereupon, the following
snappy dialogue took place:

The Eternal. Female: “I wish you'd look at that
idiot lying on the ground. He'll catch his death of
cold.”

The Exalted Escort: “No, m’deah, he’s not rest-
ing. He’s just had both legs broken.”

Infernal Female: “Oh, how waffle! I’ll bet (at
this a Student Counciman shifts uneasily in his
seat) that he’s a halfback, because only half of
him comes back out of a game.”

Exhausted Escort: “Yeah, dearie, the fullback
gets all the breaks, because he gets out whole,
but the quarterback comes out in small chunks.”

I could stand no more, so just as the poor boy
began to explain that they called certain players
tackles, because they had to block and tackle, I
uttered a piercing shriek, heaved my ground-peas
to the four winds, and left. (Exit in a flurry of
snow.) I later read all about the game in the Sun-
day paper.

For a long time I have been giving my careful
consideration to the idea of running a “Bright
Sayings of the Little Tots” section in this column,
and at last I have got the nerve to try it. (I guess
my geéntle readers, both of them, think that I have
my nerve to run any of this.) So here’ goes. Alley
oop!

The Babbling of the Brats

A proud mother had just put her little Fanny to
bed, and as was the custom, she was reading a
bed-time story to her. On this particular night
the text was to be found in the charming story
of “The Three Bears.” The story had progressed
to the part where the bears returned home (you
see, I know.my bed-time stories), and the mother
turned to the little girl and asked, “Do you think
that Goldilocks was afraid when the bears came
in the room?” At this little Fanny chirps, “Why
no, Murry, Goldilocks wasn’t ‘afraid of b/’ars.
She had a bicycle and she knew how to handle-
bars.”

have received six sticks of gum instead of
three. In fact we are rather sorry that we
rooted for the Athletics, now.

heads and Cavaliers of Cromwell’s day—cannot be
wiped out in an hour. Customs and modes of think-
ing remain when material landmarks have crum-
bled and vanished. Thus it is that in setting out to
relocate Mason and Dixon’s Line after so many
years, we must take into account not only the
bench marks which took from the estate of
Charles, Lord Baltimore, three thousand square
miles or so, but also those which give double
unity to some forty million people living in the
South today.

“Opinion may differ as to where the line should
run, but no one can deny that it is there. Nor
would anyone go so far as to say that on one
side dwells the practical, and on the other the
ideal. Humanity is too ‘imperfect to achieve the
absolute in either direction, were that result de-
sired. The fact remains that the home of romance
is the South, her threshold guarded with uncom-
promising loyalty by her sons.”
