FINAL GAME
WITH
DUKE UNIVERSITY

THE DAVIDSONIAN

“ALENDA LUX UBI' ORTA LIBERTAS”

THANKSGIVING
CLASSIC
AT DAVIDSON

Vol. XVII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 21, 1929

No.2} /

President Lingle Makes
Inspiring Speech During
Home-Coming Exercises

Desires Closer Relationship Be-
tween Alumni and College
Administration

CITES COLLEGE’S NEEDS

Meeting Presided Over by Dr. R. H.
Lafferty, Vice-President of
Alumni Association

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, President of David-
son College, in his first official address to
the alumni, intimated that’ a closkr relation-
ship should exist between the alumni and
the college administration, in a speech which
featured the morning exercises held on
Home-Coming Day, in the new Chambers
auditorium,

Doctor Lingle explained that the purpose
of Home-Coming Day was to bring the
alumni back to the old college.

“IT am speaking to the old, present and
future alumni of Davidson,” Doctor Lingle
said. “Our alumni are the best friends of the
college and they love it more each year.”

The president also indicated that he was
speaking intimately and stated that it was
his wish that the Alumni Association co-
operate more closely with the college admin-
istration.

The executive also introduced a new plan
which he hoped would go into effect as soon
as the college could be able to handle it
without any financial difficulty. The project
called for & change in supporting the Alumni
Association, which directed that the organi-
zation be maintained by the college rather
than the annual assessment of each alumnus.
The audience voiced their approval of the
pla nwith audible acquiescence.

Doctor Lingle divided the climax of his
address into a discussion of the four-fold life
offered by the college activities.

“Our alumni are usually more interested
in athletics and we rejoice in it since they
stand for clean sports,’ Doctor Lingle con-
tinued.

“The Carnegie report, which is amazing
and voluminous, accuses several colleges and
universities of commercialism in athletics.
This report did not include Davidson but
had they done it, we would have been placed
on the clean side.”

In stressing physical education, the speaker
declared that this was very important since
our education should begin with the develop-
ment of the physical element, and made
known that the crying need of the college
now is a new Infirmary.

Doctor Lingle, in emphasizing social cul-
ture, suggested that in order not to blunder
through life, should learn more social man-
ners,

“We are also sorely in need of a social
center to stand up for social and religious
development ;” the new president asserted.

In reference to the intellectual develop-

ment of the ,student body, Doctor Lingle’

suggested that the faculty is handling the
situation very well.

“With regard to the spiritual develop-
ment of the students, some one asked me
what my chief aim was, when I assumed the
presidency of this. institution, and I very
readily answered that it was to build edu-
cated, cultured, Christian manhood,” the
speaker averred.

Doctor Lingle concluded with the state-
ment that although he hoped that his plans
would materialize, and the alumni see our
needs, our growing college would be a dead
one if all essential requirements of a good
school had already been met.

The presiding officer, who led this first
of a series’ of entertainments provided for
the visiting alumni, and who introduced each
speaker, was Dr. R. H. Lafferty, of Char-
lotte, vice-president of the Alumni associa-
tion.

The program was initiated with a splen-
did performance by Eugene Craft, on the
new college organ, gift of Mrs. Cameron
Morrison. Mr. Craft, who is prominent in
North Carolinian musical circles, studied
under the famous organist, Dupre, last year.

Dr. J. M. McConnell, of the College facul-
ty, made a stirring address of welcome after

“(Continued on Page 5)

Large Crowd Enjoys
Annual Stunt Night

The annual Davidson Stunt Night was
presented last Saturday evening before an
audience of some six or seven hundred peo-
ple. This entertainment was sponsored by the
Glee Club, and a very interesting program
was presented. It was also featured by a
number of novelty stunts.

The attraction of the evening was pre-
sented by the Glee Club, the members. of
which sang two classical numbers. The stunts
from the different classes were then offered,
with the Freshmen appearing first. Their con-
tribution was composed of three acts or
skits. The first was comical; the second, a
Freshman’s conception of the four classes;
the third, a musical sketch.

Four “end men” then took the stage with
their comedy and harmony numbers. Draw-
ing constant laughter and applause from the
audience, this stunt was the most unique of
the entire program. Joe McCall, “Hub”
Covington, “Boots” Wilson, and Bill Mason
were the representatives from the Junior
class, the sponsor of this skit.

A novelty performance was given by the
Sophomore Class featuring the singing of
George Pardington, who sang two popular
numbers. A banjo duet, featuring Rosser
Elkins, a sketch by Horace Erwin and a
group of negro spirituals sung by local neg-
roes concluded this stunt.

The Senior stunt was all comedy. It con-
sisted of acrobatic stunts by a group of
Seniors mimicking some professional group
of acrobats.

Between the class stunts, other small skits
were presented. The Glee Club presented two
more numbers, and the Sunnyland Serena
ders entertained the audience with a varied
group of popular selections. The final act
was the singing of “O Davidson” by the
Glee Club and the entire audience, accom-
panied by the orchestra.

Credit should be given to W. D. Poole of
the Freshman Class, W. S. Lea of the
Sophomore Class, C. H. Goodykoontz of
the Junior Class and J. Z. Preston of the
Senior Class, who were the chairmen of their
respective class stunts.

Seniors and Sophs

Basketball Victors

Fast Games Reeled Off in
Class Series

In the latest series of class basketball, the
Seniors triumphed over the Fresh by a score
of 41-27. Whenever the Freshman have
played the Seniors, they have always played
a good game, but have lacked the punch
necessary to down the dashing four-year men.
In this particular game Baucher and Baugh-
ham were the principal scorers for the
Fresh, while Moore seemed to find the hoop
most for the Seniors. He scored twenty-
two points.

The same night, the Juniors wilted before
a fighting Soph attack, and when the last
quarter was over the score stood at 22-18.
Both teams showed up well, and though
there were few individual stars, it was an
intensely interesting game of basketball.
Martin, of the’ Sophs, and Shepard were high
scorers for their respective teams.

+ ,
Oren Moore to Speak

Dr. Oren Moore, prominent phy-
sician of Charlotte, will speak at “Y”
Vespers Sunday at 6:00 p. m., in
Shearer Hall.

Dr. Moore is one of Davidson's
most faithful alumni. His presence
on the campus is frequent and in
the case of a football game certain.
He is an attractive speaker and has
a fine personality. The w s-
men will remember. his talk in “Y”
Vespers of last year.

Davidson Freshmen
to Play Duke Frosh
at Durham, Friday

Both Teams Have Good Records
Over Opposition to Date

Coach “Red” Laird’s freshmen proteges
will ring down their football curtain Friday
when they meet the Blue Imps of Duke Uni-
versity at the Devil's lair in Durham. Both
teargs have enviable records so far, having
been defeated only by the N. C. State Frosh,
However, the Blue Imps feel that they have
a slight edge over the Wildkittens, for on
Armistic day, they decisively downed Oak
Ridge, 13 to 0, who had previously held the
Davidson Frosh to a 6 to 6 tie. But just as
apparent advantages are done away with
when the varsities meet, so will it be in the
case of the Freshmen.

The power of the Duke Frosh was shown
conclusively by their victory over Oak Ridge
in Greensboro, When the Duke shock troops,
which had started the game could make no
headway against the fighting cadets, Coach
Cameron sent in his regulars and from then
on Duke dominated the game. Her line was
a powerful, hard charging group which soon
wore down the lighter cadet forward wall,
and which repeatedly broke through, throw-
ing the Oak Ridge backs for big losses.
Quarterback Coombs, a nephew of the fam-
ous Jack of the World Series and Athletic
fame, hurled two beautiful passes which led
to touchdowns, the first to Riber, and the
second to Cochrane, the brother of the
famous Mickey.” In both these instances,
it was a plunging, jolting chap named Sill-
man who made the remaining necessary
yardage. \-

The Wildkittens will uffer as opposition a
much improved defense, and an excellent
air attack that was directly responsible for
the yictory over Wofford last Friday.

The probable lineups of the two teams
follows :

Duke Position Davidson
Bardi cc cecuceaecueueeeceeceueess Pierce
iby
HOlivewascccwoneopodeeennseeucecs Wagner
bw,

IMGNINS: ace eoo st che eoe see ee reece Little
L.G.

Brownlee 2222 ose (c) Gardner
G;

Blacks0n ec xsetc sess ares Mullins
R.G
BHickhalls e222 season ce ebeset se ces Ogden
R.T
RGMONS oo creeaeeoeseescossotoesrs Barrier
RE
GoOMmps essen oe ee eres cee ene Pearce
Q.B.

Riber ooo eee See ee Se asks Clarke
L.H.

Cochrane Ssesesseeeee ees Soc eseoe Mills
R.H.

Sillmanreesccc sco see ee ees Manson
F.B.

R. 0. T. C. Unit Stages

Home-Coming Parade

Home-Coming Parade Given
~ in Rain

Before approximately three hundred spec-
tators, the Davidson R. O. T. C. Unit gave
the annual Battalion parade on Sprunt Field
last Saturday. This feature of Home-Coming
Day was handicapped to a certain extent by
a drizzling rain, but so far as can be learned
the drill was the best of this fall.

The companies assembled at 10:40 between
the stadium and the gym and stacked arms.
Immediately after the arms were stacked,
the command “fall out” was given, and a
part went to the auditorium where Home-
Coming Exercises were being held. Follow-
ing the exercises here, the companies assem-
bled again at the stacks, took arins and
marched to the Freshman field.

All the companies. assembled facing the
stadium and stood at parade rest while the
band sounded off. Following this, the Star
Spangled Banner was played, and the com-

| panies were ordered to pass in review before

the commanding .officers. The second pla-
(Continued on Page 8)

Home Missions Are

Objects of Y Fund

Recently, it has been decided that the
annual Mission Fund, made up of gifts from
the students, will be devoted this year to
the welfare of home mission interests, part
going to the Lees-McRae Institute, in Ban-
ner Elk, N. C., as schorlarships for mountain
boys, and part toward building a Sunday
School building in the mill village, here in
Davidson, The fund, which is raised .by
voluntary subscriptions from the students and
collected through the Y. M. C. A., has, as
its minimum goal, thousand dollars,
but no definite limit has been set. Last year,
this money was given for the support of
Frank W. Price, a Davidson alumnus, in
his mission work in Nanking, China, and the
previous year, to Lees-McRae Institute.

The two projects, mill village Sunday
School, and scholarships for mountain boys
are tied up in the fact that the majority of
the mill workers here come from the moun
tains and are essentially nieuntain people.
They form the purest Anglo-Saxon stock
in America, and show great promise when

one

given an opportunity.

Lees-McRae Institute is a prep school and
junior college in the heart of the Blue Ridge
mountains, where boys and girls from the
most backward hollows, who are ambitious
for an education, can, ‘by dint of hard work,
not only get knowledge, but get’ abreast of
modern times,in culture, There are 89 boys
in the school, of whom 20 get scolarships of
$120 each, if they are fo remain_in the school ;
by working in spare time they can pay the
rest of their tuition, board, ete. Most of
them can realize no help from their families,
however. There are two Davidson graduates
on the faculty: L. K. Pritchett, '27, and R. O.
Flinn, ’29. Flinn claims to have an excellent
football team of
stars have their eyes set on Davidson.

The ‘need for a Sunday School building
for the mill workers in Davidson is urgent.
There are at present a total of 80 mem-
bers divided into eight classes. For most of
those who attend, it is the only religious
training they receive, and this has in large
measure been done through Davidson stu-
dents. Albert MclLure is at the head as
student pastor.

A sum of one hundred and fifty dollars has
been raised by the members of the Sunday
School but this amount is not sufficient. This
was contributed in amounts ranging from
one cent by the little children to ten dollars
by their parents. The campaign will be con-
ducted in the first two weeks of December.

this season, some whose

Reception, Held a
“Y*” Social Center

The social center in Ku Hall was proved
useful last Saturday night when a réception
was held for the alumni, visitors, and student
body of Davidson following the Stunt Night
program in Chambers. This is the. first
year that the social center has been used
and it has proved a great success thus for,

Radio and phonograph music, and light
refreshments constituted the , entertainment
at the informal reception, according to W.
G. McGavock and C. N. Burch, who were in
charge.

‘The social center, which has been redecor-
ated and newly furnished, is open at all times
to visiting parents and other guests of the
student body. Aside from being a place for
entertaining out of town friends, the room
will regularly be the scene of receptions and

other gath Gings.

New Reporters

At a recent meeting of the David-
sonian Reporters’ ‘Club, R. E. Witt,
A. R. Bird, E. C. Dwelle, and W. H.
Matthews were formally initiated
into membership. They had pre-
viously been accepted for member-
ship by a forum of the club mem-
bers. These four men were recom-
mended by the staff for their ability
as writers and for their work in the
newspaper office. R. E. Witt shows
his literary worth in the articles
which he contributed weekly.

Davidson to Play Duke
in Annual Classic Here
Thanksgiving Afternoon

Blue Devils Have Unsuccessfully
Attempted Very Ambitious
Schedule

DUKE WILL USE PASSES

Game to Bear Much Weight in De-
ciding North Carolina State
Championship

With the end of the football season only a
few days off, all eyes are focused on Turkey
Day when Davidson and Duke mix on Rich-
ardson field. All prospects point to a gala
day for seldom have the two Thanksgiving
Day rivals been more evenly matched, and
each will be putting forth a supreme effort
to down their old opponent. Many expect a
bigger crowd than was present on Home-
coming Day, for many old alumni in neigh-
boring states planning to attend the
football classic.

are

Attempting probably the most ambitious
schedule of any Southern team, the Blue
Davils were overwhelmed in four successive
games. However, no team was able to keep
the Buie passing attack from functioning for
the Devils scored in every game played.
Not even the Pittsburg Panthers, undefeated
so far this season and said to have one of the
strongest elevens in the country, could break
up the bullet-like passes of Buie, and, al-
though the powerful forward wall of Pitt
was continually breaking through and rush-
ing him, many of the heaves found their way
into the waiting arms of the Duke receivers.
In their first game of the Southern Confer-
ence, Duke uncorked a powerful offense and
swamped Louisiana State University 32 to 6,
Last week Duke fought from beginning to
end to down, North Carolina State 19 to 12,
thus continuing their winning streak in the
conference.

If Duke wins, they probably will play the
University of North Carolina on December
7, for the state championship; while if David-
son wins, it will give the Wildcats a 500
per cent record, and Davidson will feel that
they have made a very enviable record.

Davidson President
Accepts Invitations

Dr Walter L. Lingle, president of David-
son College, accepted invitations to speak in
two of the oldest North Carolina Presby-
terian Churches, one of which is the Church
of his boyhood. On November 17, he _ filled
the pulpit at Thyatira Presbyterian Church,
several miles from Salisbury where the Dav-
idson president was reared, and on Novem-
ber 24 he will’speak at the Sugaw Presby-
terian Church, near Charlotte, on religious
education.

Davidson’s President has engagements
also to speak at two Father and Son Ban-
quets, one in Greensboro on November 19,
and another in Salisbury on November 22.
On December 1, he will again appear in
Salisbury at the First Presbyterian Church,
and from there he goes directly to Chicago,
Ill., for a meeting of the executive council
of the Churches of Christ in America for a
three-day session. Doctor Lingle is chairman
of that body.

Alumni and Wives
Attend Luncheon

A large number of alumni together with
their wives and friends attended the informal

luncheon given in the Banquet hall of the
Chambers at one o'clock, Home-Coming Day.
Mrs. Gaffney, who operates the College Inn,
assisted by a group of students, served the
luncheon. It. was served ‘somewhat in cafe-
teria style with sandwiches, fruits, and des-
erts. Both hot and cold drinks were served.

A very much large number of guests were
served this year than last, To the regret of
those in charge a few late comers could not
be served. However, the whole affair was
carried through with a great deal of satis-
faction and efficiency on the part of those in

charge.
