THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 10, 1929

2
Individual Scoring
TD PAT TP
Ward, Carolina -.-.________ 5 0 20
J. Waggoner, Elon__..__-___ 4 0 24
Williams, Elon —2.-__-_-___- 3 3 21
Walker, Elon -,-...2--_.__.- 3 3 21
Cox, Guird PE Mtg on papay 3 1 19
Branch, Carolina ~--2_--____ 3 0 18
Spaulding, Carolina -.-.-._. 2 4 16
Bunn, Guilford --..........-- 2 0 12
McCall, Davidson ~...--_- s- 2 0 12
Mills, Wake Forest-_s.._..- 2 0 12
Team Scoring

Carolina: so ccc eres; 14 7 91
Bion Sheccou eae eee ces 11 6 72
Guilford (sce ic ace See Le 7 2 44
DavidsOnyse 23 2a roe ene 6 5 41
Wake Forest ~---....._____- 6 3 39
Dike exer yee esas Bie 4 2 26
Catawba: sate (veteencl eae 1 1 7
tate Wace aes oa so 1 0 7
High Point ....4.:..-.4..... 1 0 7
Atlantic Christian -....___-___ 1 0 7
Totals csc cchvsescw esha. 2338

JUDGE OF COURT PLEASED
WITH ACTIONS OF FROSH

New Rules Added to the Former
Regulations

Heath Whittle, Judge of the Court of Con-
trol, is highly satisfied in the splendid re-
sponse the Freshmen have given to the
Frosh rules, one of Davidson’s most hon-
ored traditions, and intimates that very few
infractions have been reported.

However, freshmen must not regard this
commendation with a general relaxation, but
must continue their strict adherance to the
regulations until the latter part of the col-
lege year, Whittle warned.

“Wonderful spirit exhibited by the Fresh-
men thus far this year,” Whittle continued,
“has attracted the favorable approbation of

. the whole student body. The call for putting
bleachers immediately disclosed almost a
unanimous response. The presence of most
every freshman at the weekly pep meetings,
has assured the cheerleaders of a successful
evening. Turning out to all athletic con-
tests as well as responding to coaches’ invita-
tions to become candidates for the various
freshman’ teams has been especially notice-
able.

“In view of the fact that very few upper-
classmen have brought complaints, and in
consideration of the present conduct of the
freshman class, there is a possibility that. the
rules will be removed in the spring, providing
that the Coyrt of Control sees fit. Of course
this plan will not materialize unless the good
behavior remains consistent. :

“An important fact has been brought to
the attention of the Court of Control. It is
very noticeable that the congested conditions
in the Post Office just after breakfast is very
troublesome, both to the post office clerks as
well as to the student body. As a remedial
measure, the Court is requesting that all
freshmen refrain from going after their mail
until their first available vacant period, after
breakfast. This will relieve the crowded
condition considerably, and, therefore, it will
be best for freshmen to comply with this new
order at once.” Whittle concluded.

Freshman rules this year are the same as
those of last with the exception of the fol-
lowing changes: :

(1) All freshmen must attend athletic con-
tests fifteen minutes early.

(2) All freshmen are required to attend
pep meetings.

LANGUAGE APTITUDE
EXAMINATIONS GIVEN

The Language Department this year has
given an intelligence test to Freshmen, known
as the “Iowa Placement Examination for
Aptitude in Foreign Languages.” The plan
at the present time js to place the results
of the file and check them with the class
grades of the student at the end of the first
semester and again at the end of the year.
If, after a comparison has been made, there
is to be noted any marked-correlation in the
records of the test and class averages of the
students, a similar examination will be given
at the beginning of the course next fall and
section assignments will then be made on the
basis of results obtained. This test has been

| used very successfully for sectioning students
by a large number of colleges and seems to
be giving very good results.

‘Of course the marks made carry no weight |

in class grades but are merely for informa-
tion. Although. all papers have been graded
no information will be given out at this time
as_to the results other than to say that they
‘compare favorably with those of other
schools. The highest possible mark is 150.
‘No knowledge of a foreign language is neces-
sary to pass the test. —

KITTENS TIE OAK RIDGE
IN FIRST GAME OF YEAR

Cavan Recovers Fumble to Score
Freshman Marker

The Davidson Wildkittens opened the '29
season by fighting the Oak Ridge Cadets to
a 6-6 tie on Friday, October 4. The score
indicates that the game was hard fought from
beginning to end.

In the first quarter Oak Ridge received the
ball and made a first down on two plays.
After failing to gain in two tries Gold punted
to the Davidson 30-yard line. A series of
line plays and passes put the ball on the
Oak Ridge 22-yard line where it was lost on
downs. During the remainder of the period
the teams exchanged punts and the quarter
ended with the ball in possession of. Oak
Ridge on their own 27-yard line.

In the second quarter, after two exchanges
of punts on which Gold, for Oak Ridge,
gained considerable advantage over Mills and
Pearce, Gold ran back a Davidson punt 15
yards to the Davidson 35-yard line. A suc-
cession of line plays carried the ball to the
Davidson one foot line. Captain Tyson
plunged over center for the touchdown. The
try for extra point failed.

The Kitten scored when Cavan recovered
a fumble which had not been grounded, and
ran 52 yards for Davidson’s lone touchdown.
The try for extra point failed.

Neither team was able to score in the last
quarter, both doing well on the defense.
Pearce made a beautiful run of 38 years to
place the ball on the Oak Ridge 4-yard line.
After three attempts without gains, Mills
tried to dropkick, but was unsuccessful and
the game ended with the ball in Davidson's
possession on the Cadets’ 30-yard line.

Cavan and Pearce were outstanding in the
backfield while Gardner was a tower of
strength in the line. For the Cadets, Walton,
Gold, and Captain Tyson starred in the back-
field, the whole line showing up well.

Oak Ridge made seven first downs to
Javidson’s six.

Following is the line up and summary :

Wildcat Center

Bill Mason, star Davidson pivot man, who

paved the way for Davidson's lone touch-

down against Wofford by intercepting a
pass in the final quarter.

The lineup:

David. Fresh: Position O.R.M.1.
Brooks eseacsusss 16] Ope seyens Morgan
Wagher ...------- | Big Maange ewes Sys Drye
Maugysseuescuenss AG So csaeess Griggs
Gardner (C) --- Center ------ Newberry
Obdéei cectuscses ce Re Greed Bee er, Swisher
MacFayden —~------ RD Sees Tucker
Battier cccccaccss RBecsususosscae Gold
REALCE 2aescolseos (0) Dh eeenranee Jowdy
MIS ae csoecsscee RH2seiescess Jackson
Gavanriscwiecsses WE Steer sess Walton
MacFee _-------- BByssseses Tyson (C)
Score by periods:
MAVIdSOh wee eeas ocdokeaes 0 0 6 0—6
OakiGRidgé csesses ei 2 ce 0 6 0 0—6

Substitutes: For Davidson—Little, Fleagle,
Cannon, Pierce, Mullins, MacDonald, Greech,
Manson. For Oak Ridge—Strickland, Lentz,
Whitener, Davis, Slayton, Slaughter, Cum-
mings.

Scoring : Cavan, Tyson,

Officials: Referee—Allen (Wake Forest).

EIGHT DAVIDSON MEN

(Continued from page 1)
Woodberry Forest in Virginia; and J. A.
Thompson, who is now studying on his Ph.D.
degree at the University of North Carolina.
Mr. Thompson did graduate work at the
University for a year after graduation, and
for two years was assistant professor at
Wake Forest College.

Nominations from the other states were

Camper O’Neal, of Montgomery, Ala., now}

starting his second year as Y. M. C. A. sec-
retary at Davidson College; Frontis W.
Johnson, of Jefferson, Ga., senior and well
known athlete at Davidson; W. W. Har-
rison, Jr., and John B. Knox, of Liberty,
S. C., both seniors, and Alan M. Frew, of
Charleston, W. Va., a senior, who won third
place in the National Oratorical contest a
year ago in California, after winning first
place in southern competition.

Davidson. has had five Rhodes scholars
since 1907. They were Dr. Ben R. Lacy,
president of the Union Theological Semi-
nary, Richmond, Va.; W. P. Mills, now a
Y. M. C. A. worker in China; Prof. S. T.
McCloy, at present a member of the faculty
at Duke University; Rev. McDowell Rich-
ards, pastor at Clarksville, Ga., and Rev.
R. F, Davidson, now a student of the grad-
uate school at Princeton University.

There is no written examination for the
Rhodes scholarship, selection being made up-
on the basis of the candidate's excellence in
scholarship, together with his student activi-
ties, character, personality, and probable
leadership. Every college or university in
each state generally enters candidates, which
means that 15 or 20 of the best minds of a
state come before the board. Only one can
receive the award. The Rhodes scholarship,
tenable for two and usually three years at
Oxford carries an annual stipend of approxi-
mately $2,000.00.

The easiest way to get air-minded.is to
pump up Ford tires—Ask Sam Lumpkin.

Umpire—Leggett (Davidson). Head lines-
man—Street (Carolina).

Davidson-Wofford

Summary

Davidson Wofford

First downs ~------------ 12 4
Penagities Sect aces ecu 5 yds 15 yds
Ground gained from scrim-

Mave Soece se susssecces. 206 yds 79 yds
Ground gained on passes 10 yds 24 yds
Passes attempted -------- 7: 8
Passes completed -------- 1 2
Passes intercepted ~.----- 1 1
Average length punts and

MIGROMS cise tuuuncean 34 24
Average yardage punts and

kickoffs returned ------ 22 4
RGMBDIES uesct sole cuks 2 0
Fumbles recovered —----- 2 0

STUDENTS,
ATTENTION!

For self-supporting students de-

siring fascinating, remunerative
work either temporary or perma-
nent, may I suggest that many stu-
dents of both sexes have earned
scholarships and cash sufficient to
defray all college expenses, repre-
senting national magazine publish-
ers. If interested, write or wire for
details—M. A. Steele, National Or-
ganizer, 5 Columbus Circle, New

York, N. Y.

%

‘Turn the light on the Truth!

It’s just naturally good tobacco—not ‘‘artificial treatment’? that
makes OLD GOLD gentle .to the throat and better to the taste

No one cigarette-maker has any monopoly on
the heat-treatment of cigarette tobaccos.

For heat-treating is neither new nor exclusive.
It has been used for years by practically all
cigarette-makers to ‘‘set’”’ and sterilize their

tobacco.

But OLD GOLD’S goodness does not depend on :

artificial treatment. It is the product of nat-
urally good tobaccos . . . carefully selected for

Better Tobaccos make them smoother and better . . . with

On your Radio, OLD GOLD—PAUL WHITEMAN HOUR. Paul Whiteman, with his complete orchestra, every Tuesday, © to 10 P. M.,

mildness, smoothness and flavor.

Tobaccos

made free of ‘throat scratch” by Mother

Nature herself.

Try a package. You’ll immediately get the
thrill of this smoother and better cigarette.
And you’ll know then why OLD GOLD’S sales
are ALREADY THREE TIMES GREATER than the
combined growth of three leading cigarette
brands during a like period of their existence.

OP. Lerillard Co., Bat. 1700

‘not a cough in a carload’’

Standard Time
