THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 24, 1929

Davidson President to Speak On Home-Coming Day

Dr. Walter L. Lingle Has Accepted

Invitation to Make

Principle Address

At Important Celebration For Alumni

Officials Are Working on Complete
Plans for Entertainment of
Hundreds of Alumni on Sat-

urday, November 16th

LENOIR BAND INVITED

Championship Band to be Here—
R. O. T. C. Parade and Other
Features Announced

Dr; Walter L. Lingle, president of David-
son, will make the principal address at the
annual Home-Coming of the alumni here on
November 16, This announcement was: made
here this week by the alumni secretary, who
has been working in conjunction with the
faculty committee on lectures. This group
has been working out detailed plans of this
annual occasion when hundreds of Davidson
alumni return for a visit, and complete ar-
rangements should he completed within the
next week,

Those in charge of the program have ex-
pressed satisfaction that Doctor Lingle ac-
cepted their invitation to speak to the alum-
ni, students and friends of the college. His
appearance on November 16 was not only
desirable, but seemed propitious, since this
will be the first opportunity for Davidson’s
new president to address the alumni constit-
uency in person. He has communiated with
them through the college bulletin several
times, and is already known to many of them.
He has not yet had the chance, however of
this direct contact with former students as
a body.

Coupled with this announcement was the
further statement that the Lenior high school
band had again been invited to play with the
local band at the various events of the day.
The local musicians have voted unanimously
to have these high school players at David-
son, and this nifty outfit of musicians will be
the joint guests of the Davidsén band, and
the athletic and alumni associations.

The Lenior boys have won several of the
state high school contests, and have develop-
ed a reputation that extends beyond the con-
fines of this state. Their appearance at
Davidson last Home-Coming day created
considerable favorable comment, and_ their
performance is expected to be duplicated this
year. The band is under the direction of
James C. Harper, graduate of Davidson in
the class of 1915.

Another feature of the Home-Coming pro-
gram will be the annual R. O. T. C. parade
on Sprunt Field, which affords alumni the
opportunity to see the battalion in action.
This event will immediately follow the speak-
ing exercises, which will be staged) in the
auditorium this fall. Heretofore the stadium
has been used, but by having the program
inside, alumni will see the new auditorium.

It is again the plan of the alumni secretary
to have the usual alumni luncheon in the ban-
quet hall of Chambers building. This has
been served in cafeteria style during the past
two years, and the method employed has
been so favorably commented upon, that it
is deemed advisable. to follow the same pro-
cedure. The luncheon will begin at 1:00
o'clock and conclude only after everybody
has been served.

The hours for all of the exercises have
been tentatively set. The first event should
start at 10:45 with an organ recital of fifteen
minute’s duration, and in quick succession
will be a forty-minute program in the audi-
torium, the drill occuring immediately after-
ward on Sprunt Field. It has been so ar-
ranged that students will have ample time
to change to their civilian clothes before
lunch,

As usual, the Carolina-Davidson football
game will be the featufe of the afternoon,
beginning at 2:30 o’clock, and in the even-
ing the final exercises of the full day’s en-
tertainment will the stunt night program,
which has always been full of mirth and
is surcease from the strained nerves of the

afternoon.
“

NUMEROUS ALUMNI MARRIAGES

The following are marriages which have
occurred since the first issue of The David-
sonian, when a long list was published. Com-
plete information is not available on all of
the marriages. A few of these were listed
at the time as engagements, but the marri-
ages have since taken place.

Caldwell-Godwin

Morrison Harris Caldwell, Jr., °15, of
Jackson, Miss., was married last Saturday
evening in Atlanta, Ga., to Miss Mable God-
win, of Blue Mountain, Miss. Mrs. Caldwell
is a graduate of the University of Missis-
sippi and Vanderbilt University. Mr. Cald-
well attended Davidson from Concord. For
the past several years he has been with the
Dixie Culvert and Metal Company, of At-
lanta, Ga., and is now state manager of the
company in Mississippi, with headquarters
at Jackson, where Mr. and Mrs. Caldwell
will reside.

William Swepston Overton, Jr., ’18, of
Greenville, S. C., and Miss Hazel Hudson,
of Salisbury, were married last Saturday
evening in a brilliant ceremony at the First
Methodist Church in Salisbury. Mrs. Over-
ton is a graduate of North Carolina College
for Women. Mr. Overton is located in Green-
ville, S. C., where he is engaged in the auto-
mobile business. Mr. and Mrs. Overton will
reside in Greenville.

Hoye-Caldwell
Victor Carrol Hoye, ’23, of Meridian,

Miss., and Miss Helen Caldwell, of Corinth,
Miss., were married in Corinth on Friday,
October 18. They. will reside at Meridian,
Miss.

MacMillan-Allen

Charles Vance MacMillan, ’24, of South-
ern Pines, and Miss Lena Allen, of St. Pauls,
were married at the home of the bride’s par-
ent in St. Pauls on September 21. Mrs.
MacMillan received her education at Win-
gate College and Meredith College, in Ral-
eigh. Mr. MacMillan. was formerly of Park-
ton and after attending Davidson, he went
to the University of North Carolina. He now
lives at Southern Pines, where they will
reside.

Hunter-Armfield
John Victor Hunter, Jr., ’23, of Winston-
Salem, and Miss Adelaide Armfield, of Ashe-
boro, were married at a brilliant and widely
attended ceremony at the First Methodist
Church in Asheboro on October 12. Mrs.
Hunter graduated from Salem College in
Winston-Salem. After leaving Davidson, Mr.
Hunter was with the Standard Drug Com-
pany of Asheville, but is now connected with
the Reynolds Tobacco Company, in Winston-

Salem, where they will. reside.

Liles-Allen
Richard Vernon Liles, ’25, of Liflesviffe,
N. C., and Miss Grace Allen, of Wadesboro,
N. C., were married on October 4 in the
First Baptist Church of the latter city, They
are at home at Lilesville, N. C.

Brown-Mauney

Benjamin George Brown, ’25, of Hender-
sonville, N. C., and Miss Dorothy Mauney,
of, Hickory, N. C., were married at the
latter’s home last week. Mrs. Brown is one
of Hickory’s most charming young. girls.
Mr. Brown has been located at Henderson-
ville since his graduation, and they will re-
side in that city.

Kugler-Freeman

Frank C. Kugler, Jr., '26, and Miss Viola
Reide Freeman, both of Washington, N. C.,
were married at the home of the latter on
October 9. Mr. and Mrs. Kugler were seen
at the Army game at West Point on their
bridal tour up north. Mr. Kugler is connect-
ed with the state highway department, and
has his headquarters.in Washington.

Mebane- Weddington

Alfred Holt Mebane, '25, of Aberdeen, and
Miss Julia Emily~ Weddington, of Concord,

were, married at the home of the bride's
parents recently. Mrs. Mebane graduated
from N. C. C. W., and has been teaching in
Concord. Mr. Mebane is now connected with
Liggett & Myers Company, with headquar-
ters in Aberdeen, where they will reside.

Geer-Farrow

Benjamin Owen Geer, '29, and Miss Louisa
Chisholm Farrow, both of Charleston, S. C.,
were married in a lovely ceremony in Char-
leston on October 9. Many of Mr. Geer's
friends attended the wedding. They are resid-
ing at 2 Gibbes St., Charleston, S. C.

Mizell-Vance

New was received at Davidson Monday of
the marriage last May of William Capers
Mizell, ’30, of College Park, to Miss Kitty
Vance, of Atlanta. Mr. Mizell holds a_posi-
tion in Atlanta, but they are residing at 107
E, John Calvin, College Park, Ga.

: New Addresses

Dr. C. A. Hart, 14, 334 W. 86th St., New
York, N. Y.

F. M. Cassell, ’23, Wayne County High
School, Wayne, Va.

B. Worth Williams, '26, 510 Hawthorne
Lane, Charlotte.

A. B. Claytor, '26, Lincolnton. ;

M. P. Crawford, ‘28, Imperial Hotel, De-
troit, Mich. |

W. H. Long, '29, A. K. K. House, 726
Broadway, New Orleans, La.

F. S. Blue, ’10, Union Theological Semi-
nary, Richmond, Va.

Rev. W. P. Chedester, '01, Union Theo-
logical Seminary, Richmond, Va.

Rev. W. H. Matheson, ’24, Milton, Tenn.

Rev. R. D. Daffn, D.D., 03, Parker, Fla.

Rev. J. H. Grey, Jr., '23, care Divinity
School, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh,
Scotland.

(Continued on Page 7)

gpa
a

; Wifllr
Ul Aj
x

4
i\| ios
¥:
|
a
4 y
hn
=_
WY, N

Pa

“SN
)

——————

=

a
\

Insin Sm Te

The telephone grows air-minded

i Bile BELL SYSTEM has made many

successful experiments in two-way plane

to ground telephone communication. This

new development illustrates how it marches

a pace ahead of the new civilization. It is
now growing faster than ever before.

New telephone buildings are going up

this year in 200 cities. Many central offices

are changing from manual to dial tele-

more. than five

BELL SYSTEM

A nation-wide system of inter-connecting telephones

phones. A vast program of cable construc-
tion is going on.

This is the period of growth, improve-
ment and adventure in the telephone
industry. Expenditures this year for new
plant .and service improvements will total

hundred and fifty million

dollars—one and one half times the entire
cost of the Panama Canal.

BEGUN’
