2

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 31, 1929

Many Interesting Books
Added To Library Files

Psychological Subjects Are Most
Popular With Two Best Sellers
Included

A list of several, of the latest additions to
the college bookshelves with comments on
some of them.

1. “Education for Moral Growth” by Hen-
ry Neuman, Ph.D. Of interest to the student
for its ethical training.

2. “William Blake,” a book of poems from
the Oxford University Press.

3. “Gestalt Psychology,” by Dr. Wolfgang
Kohler. The most important contribution to
this science since William James.

4. “History of Psychology,” W. B. Pills-
bury, Ph.D. Records the development of psy-
chological thinking.

5. “About Ourselves,” by H. A. Overstreet
for normal people only .

-6. “A Celtic Anthology,” by Grace Rhys.
Very valuable for reference work.

7. “West-Running Brook,” by Robert
Frost.

8. “Maintain Interval,” by Robert Frost.

9. “The Trial of Life in College” by Rufus
M. Jones. Answers many of the problems of
youth.

10. “Finding the Trial of Life’ by Rufus
M. Jones. A young man’s religion.

11. “Ultima Thule,” by Henry Handel
Richardson. “If our age has produced a mas-
terpiece at all, this a masterpiece,” so says
the London Daily News. The first printings
of this book were all sold on publication day.

12, “All Quiet on the Western Front,” by
Erich Maria Remarque. Of this remarkable
book 400,000 copies were sold in Germany;
in England five huge editions were required
to meet the demand and in America the first
printing alone was of 100,000 copies. When
18 years old the author went from school

_into the German army and then to the west:

etn front. The book tells plainly of the
horror which blighted the lives of a whole
generation, affecting terribly those whom it
did not actually kill. Often it is crude because
of the bald truth and frequently it rises to
an incredible degree of/tragedy. No reader
will be left unmoved.

Seniors and Sophs
_ Win Cage Contests

In the first inter-class game of the season,
the Senior Basketball team romped over the
Freshmen last Friday night. Although the
Fresh put up a hard fight, they were out-
played from the start, and when the final
whistle blew, the score was 30 to 10 in
favor of the dignified ones.

The lineups were as follows:

Fresh Seniors
ROBES) sons secon seeee eee eS Moore
Bettistrecae So ose fee e McGavock
INNOChS access see ees ie ee ee Calhoun
Meyers eset ees eee tes Miller
GCalholiisa-2- eee senses Heefner
IBOCHNEh i ekcs nacuccsoscecocassaeuese Alden

PREAATUSCIIG ooo s eee es SO Marsh
Baughami eos cacadescscs sk. Brown
Gamppel ties eee ase esas Watts
Covie sess bs ous ee es

The same night marked the victory of the
Sophomores over the Juniors. The younger
class practically doubled the score of the 23-
12 being the final count. Martin and Shepard
were the individual stars of the evening, the
former being on the Soph team, and the lat-
ter flashing for the older class.

The lineups were:

Sophs Juniors
IMattinesectoksioke el csubec cesses Corbett
Montgomery -------------------- Caldwell
IMcGehieey stores ee sehen ose es Wilson
Gilbontese Sone oes Ie Se Smith
Curdts --- os Shepard
Arnold --- eet Bebe EEL Lok Hogue

Harrison Wins Frat

Scholarship Honor

W. W. Harrison, York, S. C., a mefnber
of the Senior Class has attained an honor
bestowed by his fraternity, Pi Kappa Phi,
for good Scholarship. He received the schol-
arship key of the fraternity a week ago.

Each year Pi Kappa Phi awards this key
to a small group of men in order who have
attained a high average in their college
studies. Occasionally the recipient of the,
key is a post-graduate student at some in-
stitution, but usually, as in Harrison’s case,
he is an undergraduate. Each year, the var-
tious chapters of the fraternity send in re-

“ports concerning the scholastic standing of

‘its members to the National Committee on
-Scholarship. These individual reports ~are
filed, and in their senior year, or later, a
number of men, boasting ‘the highest aver-
jages ‘are recognized ‘by the award of the
_ sPi.Kappa.Phi Scholarship Key.

Dr. Walter L. Lingle

Davidson President, who has been visit-
ing and addressing various sections of the

South.

Dr. Lingle Speaks Often
On Visit To Greensboro

During the past week, October 22-27, the
people of Greensboro had the. pleasure of
hearing Dr. W. L. Lingle, President of
Davidson College. Doctor Lingle preached
twice a day, excluding Saturday, at the
Westminster Presbyterian Church of Greens-
boro, Each day at noon he lectured on “The
History and Doctrines of the Presbyterian
Church.

Tuesday, October 22, Doctor Lingle spoke
to the students of Guilford College, which is
six miles from Greensboro. He was éordially
received by the faculty and student body of
that school. While in Guilford he had the
opportunity of visiting the old Guilford court
house which was the scene ofa decisive bat-
tle of the Revolutionary War.

On Saturday Doctor Lingle attended a
luncheon given by the Chamber of Commerce
of Greensboro, at the King Cotton Hotel,
for the faculty of Wake Forest and David-
son. He was also an interested spectator at
the Davidson-Wake Forest game, Saturday
afternoon. :

During his stay in the city, Doctor Lingle
was the guest of Mr. and Mrs. E. P. Whar-
ton. He was very much interested in the
work of Mr. Wharton, who has done much
in cultivating inter-racial good will, and who
has done much for the education of the color-
ed race.

WHERE IS NO PLEASURE

The greatest sages give the simplest coun-
sels. Here is Dr. Charles M. Wharton, direc-
tor of health and of physical education at
the University of Pennsylvania, who for
thirty years has been training athletes and
keeping college men in fettle. One might
suppose that he would recommend elabor-
ate systems of body-building; but the sum
of his advice is this: “Exercise is best when
it is relaxed play.” He warns against regard-
ing it as a panacea for human ills; declares
that the quest for the fountain of youth by
way of exercise and diet “have been com-
mercialized to a point of hysteria ;” describes
starvation diets as “assaults on health;” pro-
nounces the early morning hours “the worst
time of day” for physical efforts; and
stresses, above all, that exercise does most
good “when it is pleasure and not work,
when it comes, as it were, of itself and is
not merely self-imposed as a stern duty.”

In this last opinion he is supported by so
high an authority on all things human as
Shakespeare, who observed, “No profit grows
where is no pleasure ta’en.” Intellectual pur-
suits and spiritual endeavors, as well as phy-
sical culture, lose the larger and certainly
the happier part of their merit when under-
taken in a mood of grim-visaged war or
owlish solemnity, rather than with a high
heart and a tang of adventure. “Getting and
spending, we lay waste our powers.” Life
comes from living abundantly, not from in-
sisting that every output shall have its
income. Only the cheerful giver is lovable,
only the: joyful labor is art, only the spirit
of eternal childhood enters the kingdom of
heaven. :

“Is your roommate absent minded?”

“Absent minded? Why, man, he'll go
to the postoffice to mail a letter he hasn’t
ever written.”

Customer : “Do you really think sardines
are healthy?”
Grocer: “Well, ma’am; I never heard

one complain.”

Whittle Leads Field Of
Decathlon Contestants

Brannon and Lafferty Are Next in
Order in Running Events

Recent reports from the truck decathlon
indicate that the men are running the var-
ious events in good time. The purpose of
this meet is to find the best all-round track
man. The following is a scedule of twelve
events and the qualifying distances and times.

Track
100 yd dash—13 sec.; 300 yd. dash—40
sec.; 880 yd. run—2 min, 30 sec.; Mile run—
6 min. ; 2 znile run— 12 min. 15 sec.; 120 low
hurdles—20 sec.
WA Field
/High Jump—4 ft.; Broad jump—t15 ft.;

/Shot put—25 ft.; Discus throw—75 ft.;

Javelin throw—100 ft.; Pole vault—6 ft.

From these six running and six field events
anyone may select five of each. Although
the field events have not been held, the run-
ning events have been completed and the
following is a list of the winners.

100 yd. dash—Whittle; 300 yd. dash—
Whittle; 880 yd. run—Lafferty; Mile run—
Brannon; 2 mile run —Brannon; 120 low
hurdle—Whittle.

Other men who ‘have points are Neal,
Earle, Norton, Gwyn, Goodwin and Love.
Thirty men are competing, and from this
number there are a number of good prospects
for the truck team. A trophy is to be re-
warded to the high point man. This prize
is now on displey in the White Drug Com-
pany window.

“Say, that guy Oscar was so lubricated
last night that he sold the post office.”

“Well, why so down in the mouth
about it?”

‘Because I bought it.”

“FRESHMAN”

or
The Reign of the
Sophomore

By O. G. Howitt Hurtz, ’23

“Are you ‘horsing” me, fresh?” queries
the soph. “Come ip to my room tonight
at nine o'clock,” ee continue, and then,
with a pause to Allow his command and
threat to sink in, he stalks majestically
away. We freshmen don’t mind these
little episodes, for we know that the same
sophomore, and every other one on the
hill, often wish that they were back in
our shoes again

We know these sophomores even better
than’they know themselves, and then we
don’t know much. It’s a gripe for them
to take offense at our “horsing;” it’s too
much of a strain; they can’t live the easy
life of a freshman, one who does not pre-
tend to know anything, to have any
rights, who is never taken into considera-
tion. Our life is as soft as the red clay
mud in front of the Students’ Store after
a rain.

Not so long ago I walked into a sopho-
more’s room and there he was with his
old dusty fresh cap, tattered, but the re-
minder of wonderful days, cocked back
on his head with the bill turned up in
front. Forgetting himself for the moment,
he turned around to me and said, “Don't
I look hot in this! Boy, it’s keen!” There
it was as plain as day; he had given him-
self away.

The freshman has a comeback for his
treatment. Last Monday I heard a worthy

Collegiate Press To Hold
Meeting at Hickory, N.C.

According to a statement recently made by
R. F. Jarratt, President, the North Carolina
Collegiate Press Association will hold its
fall meeting at Lenoir-Rhyne College, in
Hickory, about the fifteenth of November.
Delegates from every college publication in
the state are expected to attend.

Holding meetings in the fall and spring,
it is the custom of this organization to alter-
nate between the various educational institu-
tions in the state. It will be recalled that in
1928-29 the first meeting was held in Char-
lotte, the second one in Greensboro.

Representatives from all Davidson publi-
cations will attend this meeting. The names
of these men have not yet been announced,
but will be sent from The Davidsonian, Quips
and Cranks, and The Chameleon.

At the Spring meeting of the Association,
last April R. F. Jarratt, of Davidson, was
elected President. The following members
were elected to office: William Dixon, of
North Carolina State College, Vice-presi-
dent; Miss Margaret Blanton, of Queens
College, Second Vice-president ; Miss Elean-
or Covington, of Meredith College, Secre-
tary; and Garland MacPherson, of the Uni-
versity of North Carolina, Treasurer.

member of our class say to an upper-
classman, “Say, you had better treat me
nice. When you send your children back
to Davidson, it will be too bad for them.
I may be a sophomore by them.” See, we
have them there. You know about the
sins of the father.

Then again we get to sit down in front
at the pep meetings while the upperclass-
men perch on the backs of the benches
in the back of the auditorium. Some class
to this class!

FORA

HAVE A

FRAGRANT INTERLUDE—

CAMEL

Let Camels help to make your day by breaking

it g with pleasant interludes & with little

pauses given over to cool fragrance gS and

rich aroma g Call a halt now and then gS

and accent the intervals between one thing and

another Psy There’s always extra enjoyment in

a day whose turns gS and twists g are

punctuated with Camels.

You'll find Camels always give you a little more pleasure
- - + because the choicest tobaccos grown are blended with
expert care. Camels are mellow and mild, cool and refresh-
ing .. . their fragrance is always pleasant, indoors and out
- » » they never tire your taste nor leave any after-taste.

‘© 1929, R. J. Reynolds Tebacee
Company, Winsten-Salem, N, C,
