THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 21, 1929

z

Collegiate
Comment

ee

FEA YUREsS

e

@

“On This
and That

Music
By

LY
Horace W. Ervin

>

Tonight over fifty Davidson College
People will journey to Charlotte to
hear one of the world’s foremost
artists perform in the New Armory.
Fritz Kreisler was born in that cultural

center Vienna on February 2, 1875. Like
many other great stars he showed signs of
musical precocity at a very early age. His
father, an eminent physician and an enthus-
iastic music amateur, was not slow to recog-
nize his son’s genius, and accordingly in-
structed and encouraged him on the violin.

At the age of seven, Fritz appeared at a
concert for children given by Carlotta Patti
in Vienna, after which he entered the Vienna
Conservatorium, where he studied under
Hellmesberger and the renowned Leopold
Auer, who is reputed to have produced so
many of the world’s outstanding violinists.
The acceptance of Fritz here was unusual,
as pupils were generally iteligible before. the
age of fourteen. When ten years old he won
the gold medal awarded by the Conserva-
torium. He then went to Paris to study tech-
nic and theory, and received another medal
two years later (Premier Grand Prix)
against forty competitors, none of whom
was under twenty years of age.

In 1889 he visited America for the first
time and toured the States with Moritz
Rosenthal, pianist. Immediately afterward,
however, he returned home and dropped all
musical activity. He entered the Gymnasium
at Vienna to study .medicine, studied art in
Paris and in Rome, and passed a rigid army
examination which entitled him to an officer-
ship in the_regiment of Uhhans. Mr. Kreis-
ler, incidentally, is still a reserve.

During his year as a military officer he
entirely forgot his instrument. Then sud-
denly he emerged, but with such scanty
success that he resolved. to retire to the
country, where he practised his violin unin-
terruptedly for eight weeks. Fitted then for
concert work, he made a brilliant debut at
Berlin in March 1899, In the same year
he revisited the United States, and it was
here that his true greatness received its first
recognition. He was introduced into Eng-
land in 1901. Three years later the New
York Philharmonic Society conferred upon
him the society medal.

At the outbreak of the World War he re-
entered the Austrian army and was wounded
in the Galican campaign of 1914. He has
since continued his playing and added to
the number of his original compositions.

Mr. Kreisler’s playing appeals most to the
musicians of his audiences, for he is not
merely a technician, showing off rare accom-
plishments in playing, but he unites his daz-
zling technic with the higher qualities of
music. As an interpreter of classical con-
certos he is unexcelled. His style is bold
and full of glow, his methods of fingering
his own. His programs are more varied than
those of any other modern violinist, chiefly
because h e is adept in making arrangements
of both modern and classical music. Con-
sequently he very often presents selections
written for another instrument but arranged
for the violin by himself.

Mr. Kreisler is not only a virtuoso violin-
ist and a composer; he is a heart and soul
musician. It is known that he is little less
expert on the piano than on the violin. And
his original compositions and arrangements
are warmly received. He does not attempt to
make a show of brilliant playing, as did
Paganini when he arranged to have three
of his violin strings break during a perfor-
mance so that he could demonstate his ex-
ceptional skill in finishing the piece on one
string. His program will include two con-
certos, which are of classical nature, and
some lighter selections.

Glee Club Holds -°
Quartet Try-Outs

In the Glee Club there are about twelve
men trying out for the quartet.. The/ quar-
itette is now made up of: A. J. Thompson,
first tenor; Billy Rule, second tenor; Gene
DuBose, baritone; John Regen, bass. How-
ever, there is a possibility that some other
men will replace before the final line-up is
decided. There will be two other quartets
available for deputations and other functions.

Current Comment

It seems ‘that the farmers at last are get-
ting a little relief—at least part of them.
The Dederal Farm Board a few weeks ago
loaned $100,000,000 to wheat farmers of the
United States. This loan was given out by
means of the National Farmers’ Grain Cor-
poration. The Farm Board expects to soon
draw more from their credit account of
$350,000,000.

Even the pirates in Europe are re-
sorting to the airplane for business.
A group of pirates on the Black Sea
recently sent out a seaplane to spot
its prey, and then completed the job
by water. In this way they robbed the
Greek steamer Euripedes.

The University of Pittsburg recently an-
nounced that it paid 1214 cents each for lab-
oratory specimens of bedbugs, which recalls
one of the characteristics of these creatures.
One particularly obstinate and ingenuous bug
who found it impossible to climb the bedpost
of a comfortable looking bed, climbed up the
wall, then over to the ceiling, whence dropped
down to the bed below.

A few days ago a Chicago hot-dog
vendor went to the police station and
reported the theft of his equipment.
He was told to write down the name
of the man he ted. Not und
standing the officer’s language, he
wrote his own name, and was prompt-
ly arrested when he arrived at his
home. Incidentally, the Institute of
American Meat Packers is placing on
the market seven shades of dye for
frankfurters. The colors range from
blonde to brunette’ and can be had
in almost any color combination.

PRESIDENT LINGLE MAKES

(Continued from page 1)
the audience had sung the first verse of
“College Ties,” in which he appealed to the
gathering with a cordial invitation to attend
all Home-Coming exercises.

“We want you to feel at home. We want
you to fellylike a boy again. We want you
to see our great football team fight Caro-
lina to a finish this afternoon,” Doctor Mc-
Connell entreated the visitors.

Prof. Ernest A. Beaty, also of the faculty,
read the list of deceased alumni who had
died within the past year.

The presiding officer concluded the meet-
ing with the extension of a hearty invitation
to the audience, to attend the R. O. T. C.
drill exhibition on Sprunt field, the luncheon
given at the banquet hall in Chambers build-
ing, the football game at Richardson field,
and “Stunt Night” in Chambers auditorium,
respectively in order of the day’s program of
entertainments.

After singing the last verse of “College
Ties,” the visitors immediately, went to
Sprunt field where they witnessed a fine
presentation of military tactics in drill, dis-
played by the local unit of the Reserve Offi-
cers Training Corps.

Kim’s Kolumn

Sectional. football leaders —'teams which
have survived an exacting season in the
merry chase for championship honors—met
their most formidable opposition last
Saturday's contests.

In most every section of the country,
championship contenders encountered _ stiff
competition and the final results probably
definitely decided the disposition of sectional
championships.

The University of Pittsburg steam-roller
continued its thrilling march to the national
title by crushing Carnegie Tech 34 to 13.
The Skibos are a hard team to score against,
boasting a strong defense that held Notre
Dame to a single touchdown, and the Pan-
ther’s decisive victory stamps them as one
of the strongest elevens in the history of
the game.

Cornell, the only other undefeated or untied
team in. the East, succumbed to a great
Dartmouth eleven, but the superiority of the
Big Green was not marked as the close-
ness of the score indicates.

In the Midwest, Purdue successfully with
stood the challenge of Iowa, while Notre
Dame nosed out Southern California 13 to
12, in two of the most exciting games of
the season. lowa, with a recent “upset” vic-
tory over Minnesota, displayed impressive
form, but was unable to halt the brilliant
offense of the Boilermarkers. This victory
practically assure Purdue the Western Con-
ference title, as Indiana can scarcely hope to
stop them.

in

Notre Dame's thrilling last minute victory
over Southern California has no bearing on
Mid-Western sectional honors, but is import-
ant in the Irish team’s campaign for the na-
tional title.

Texas Christian, the only undefeated and
untied team in the Southwest, defeated Tex-
as, its most dangerous rival, and now appears
destined to remain in the fead in its confer-
ence.

In the Far West California, with a 7 to
0 win over Washington, seems to have out-
distanced its two rivals—Stanford and South-
ern California. The Golden Bear's are the
only undefeated team in the conference, with
Stanford the only remaining barrier to their
title aspirations.

Tennessee's decisive triumph over Vander-
bilt narrows the race in the Southern Con-
ference to two undefeated elevens, Tulane
seems certain to retain her unblemished rec-
cord, while the Vols must defeat the Ken-
tucky Wildcats on Thanksgiving-to tie the
Green Wave for Dixie honors.

With the football campaign entering its
final fortnight, the contests scheduled for the
coming week-end promise to be of distinctive
minor interest. Many of the country’s out-
standing elevens are idle, due to the cus-
tomary open date prior to Thanksgiving, and
only Purdue, Notre Dame and California, of
the championship contenders, will see action.

The "Yale-Harvard game holds _ its posi-

FELLOWS!

You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at

Henderson’s Filling Station
DAVIDSON, N. C.

pone

SEE +> HEAR

The New
_DICTOR MICRO-
SUNCRONOUS RADIO
AND RADIOLA

See CThem At
PARKER GARDTER CO!

16 West CIrade St.
CHARLOTTE, 0. C.

Victor &
Brunswick
Records-

Furniture
And :

Draperies

>

tion as one of the day’s headline attractions
because of the drama attached to’ “Big
Three’ contests, but is forced to share in-
terest with the few games played by the
sectional leaders.

Purdue vs. Indiana and Notre Dame vs.
Northwestern are the big games in the West,
although there is little likelihood that either
will have any bearing on the championship
status of the Boilermakers and the Irish.
Purdue, an early outstanding favorite to cop
the “Big Ten” honors for the’ first time in
history, regards the Indiana game as an
opportunity to prove that they are stronger
than Notre Dame. Indiana held Rochne’s
Ramblers to a close score and is certain to
give their conference leader a great battle.

Notre Dame has its best team in years and,
despite its formidable schedule which includes
one hard game after another, should experi-
little difficulty trouncing North-
western.

ence in

Five intersectional battles are on tap with
the Washington-Chicago tilt heading the list.
The Huskies have held Stanford and Cali-
fornia to one lone touchdown each on suc-
cessive Saturdays and are doped to break
into the winning column at the Maroon’s
expense.

West Virginia Weslyan vs. Navy, Oregon
State vs. Detroit, Ohio Wesleyan vs. Army
and N. C. State vs. Villanova are the remain-
ing intersectional contests, all of which
should be won by the “home” elevens.

AS I PICK ’EM
Wake Forest aft DUKE.
N. C. State at VILLANOVA.
FLORIDA at South Carolina,
Boston College at BOSTON U.
New Hampshire at BROWN.
Bucknell at FORDHAM.
YALE at Harvard.
Springfield at HOLY CROSS.
PURDUE at Indiana.
Nebraska at KANSAS STATE.
LAFAYETTE at Lehigh.
Mercer at OGLETHORPE.
Rutgers. N. Y. U
NOTRE DAME at Northwestern.
ILLINOIS at Ohio State.

Ohio Weselyan at ARMY.
Oregon, State at DETROIT.
CALIFORNIA at Stanford.
TEXAS CHRISTIAN at Baylor.
WASHINGTON at Cricago.
IOWA at Michigan. |
MISSOURI at Kansas.
Wisconsin at MINNESOTA.
Idaho at SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA.
Won 58. Lost 24. Ave. .707.

West Va. Wesleyan at NAVY.

‘Literary Societies

Eumenean

According to the decision reached by the
Eumenean Literary on November 12, the
direct vote of the people should not be
necessary to declare war. M. H. Norfleet
and J. C. Matthews forcefully expounded
points in favor of this opinion, and down the
opposition created by C. E. Moore and J. E.
Richards. Ardor was added to this discussion
by a one- minute continuation of the debate,
with Matthews and Richards contending.
The’ formal contest was followed by an
open forum in which the society members
expressed their views on the subject.

During the business session of the group,
a program committee, composed of M. H.
Norfleet, R. P. Euloe, and A. A. St. Clair,
was appointed, and two new members were
proposed and accepted. The critic for the
evening was A, R. Bird. :

Philanthropic

The Philanthropic Literary Society held
its formal installation service on November
12. After the imposing ceremony, in which
the old officers were retired and the new offi-
cers were led to their places, the incoming
president, F, S. Erwin, made the address of
the evening. He sketched the ideals, the aims,
and the aspirations of the society and pledged
himself to do his best to uphold them. Those
officers who will assist the president are vice-
president, C. I, Kraemer; secretary, H. W.
Ryburn; treasurer, R. D. Russell; first critic,
Hi. E. Russel; second critic, W. T. Ratch-

(Continued on Page 8)

“DRUGS”

Thanksgiving Candy

“SODA”

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

eh yr

—see our assortment of the better lines—

White Drug Company

“SUNDRIES”

Special Designs

DELUXE ICE CREAM ©

At Students’ Store and Dealers

MOORESVILLE ICE CREAM COM PANY

Mooresville, N. C.

Brick Eskimo Pies

MONDAY and TUESDAY

Marianne with

Marion Davies

Davidson Theatre ;

SATURDAY

Acquital

with

Jaqueline Logan

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
