2

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 17,1929

Lingle Presents Study
Or Near East to I. R.C,

Language Professor Relates Expe-
riences of Visit to Arabian
Countries

On the night of October 12, the Davidson
International Relations Club heard an ad-
dress ‘by Dr. T. W. Lingle concerning his
tfip abroad this summer, on which he madé
a study of Arabic speaking countries. Since
Dr. Lingle is most well informed on the
habits and general characteristics of these
countries, his address was both interesting
and instructive.

Dr. Lingle averred that among the Arabic
speaking Mohammedans of the Near East
dissension is most imminent, seeming to arise
at the slightest provocation, “The Arabs,”
he went on, “are the descendants of the
Semitic peoples of old, who were know for
their Nomadic traits and fierceness. The ter-
ritory in Africa from the Atlantic coast
south 1000 miles and east 2000 miles to the
Red Sea is occupied by Arabic peoples. As
far south as Zanzibar and as far north as
Western Asia, we find Arabic descendants.
The territory around the Tigris and :Euphra-
tes is also occupied by Mohammedans. Arabs
have settled even in the Western part of
China; however, Java is the most thickly
populated by them.

“The Arabs are the main représentatives
of the Mohammedan religion. The Moham-
medan Bible, which is called the Koran, can-
not be translated into any language besides
the Arabic, in which it is now written.

“It would naturally follow that such a
fierce people would be a law unto themselves,
but this is not the case. The Mohammedans
are entirely under the jurisdiction, or man-
date, of nations foreign to them. The British
have come into possession of many of the
Arabic tribes. Some of the Mohammedans
are governed by the French, while the Turks
have maintained rule over many of them.
The Arabs would like very’ much to cast
off their foreign yoke, although they seem
to derive a certain contentment under Euro-
pean rule, Only’ one main attempt have they
made to free themselves, and its failure has
been remembered. Independence would indeed
be disastrous, because nine-ty-five per cent of
them are not much above the brute in edu-
cation. Only a few of the five per cent are
at all well educated. The small group con-
stituting the mental power use the masses as
slaves, practically, and seem ‘to have no
respect for them.

“In Palestine a movement is under ‘Way
encouraging the Jews of America and other
countries come back to their former
home, but it is feared that if such a return
should take place, the non-Jews of Palestine
would be used wrongly. Besides, the ‘ich
Jews would more than likely not wish to
come back, and only the ne’er-do-wells
would be interested. The ethnology of the
Holy Land would be changed in all proba-
bility, as the Jews, who would have some
education, would crowd out the Moham-
medans.

“Generally speaking, the Arabic speaking
peoples are backward, uneducated, and non-
progressive. However, in Turkey the Mo-
hammedans are taking some forward steps,
and are becoming more like their Western
contemporaries.”

In contlusion, Dr, Lingle said, “Peace will
probably always prevail to a great extent
in these countries, as the Arabs are neithe,
sufficiently well educated, nor strong enough,
to maintain independence, even if it were
granted them.”

Scabbard and Blade
Indorses Local: Unit

to

Discussion of the action taken by the Synod
of North Carolina in instructing the Board
of Trustees of Davidson College to consider
the discontinuance of the R. O. T. C. course
was the feature of the semi-monthly meet-
ing of the Scabbard and Blade, national
honorary military fraternity, last Wednesday
night in their new club room in Oak Row.
The members expressed the opinion that
the military training offered at Davidson was
one of the most practical of all of the re-
quired courses.

It was pointed out that the R. O. T. C.
work, probably more than anything else on
the campus, develops leadership, initiative,
and self-confidence. According to Cadet-
Major Bill Hill, captain of the organization,
the chapter was unanimously in favor of
maintaining the local military course, and
believed that its removal would be detri-
mental to the institution.

Plans for a. better battalion for the year
were also made, with many suggestions made
that are expected to be very helpful in pol-
ishing up the drills and interesting the fresh-
men in the work.

Men Welcome Team
At Station Monday

Approximately Two Hundred and
Fifty Men Are Present

Following an urgent appeal in chapel, by
Hugh McAllister, assistant cheer leader, a
large portion of the student body was present
at the station to greet the “West Point Spec-
ial.” Led by McClenaghan and McAllister,
the ‘student body cheered as it has never
cheered a leading team before.

When the train: pulled in a 11:26 a. m.,
the special car was surrounded by members
of the Student Body, who were eager to pull,
push, or carry the valiant Wildcats. It would
be unjust to say that one man received more
attention than another. They were all deemed
heroes.

Rapid questions were fired about the game,
impressions of Army and Cagle, and what
the city was like. Never before has a David-
son team been welcomed home with more
enthusiasm and praise. Student cheer leaders
are to be congratulated on the “peppy” spirit
which has developed the campus for the grid-
iron season.

Goes To Cornelius

The Christian Endeavor Training Class
sent out their first deputation of the college
year to the First Presbyterian Church of
Cornelius last Sunday night. C. K. Kraemer
presided at the meeting and a very interest-
ing program, with special music, was ren-
dered. Interesting talks were made by V. A.
Milton, B. M. Drake, and J. G. Knox. A
violin solo given by R. B, Orr added much
to the program.

It is hoped that more college men will
take part in the useful work which is being
carried on by the training class. All depu-
tations for the year have not been scheduled
as yet. The officers of the. year are V. A.
Milton, President; and C, K. Kraemer, Sec-
retary and Treasurer. No vice-president has
been elected to fill one vacancy.

Chapel Devoted To
Explanation Of Seal

Dr. G. R. Vowles, professor of German
Language at Davidson, gave a very profitable
and instructive talk to the student body dur-
ing the Chapel exercises Wednesday morn-
ing, October 9. He based his talk upon the
Latin motto of the college, which reads:
“Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas,” which
means, “Let there be Light where Liberty
has Arisen.” Following are some of the
thoughts which Dr. Vowles rendered to the
students :

“We find the beginning of liberty in Greek
and Roman history. Its, development has been
found in religions of the world through the
history of mankind, and not many genera-
tions ago, people came to America from the
Old World in quest of religious freedom.
The Quakers came over to this country in
quest of religious liberty. As we compare
ourselves with the liberty in. history, it is
not difficult to see that the liberty that we
have is Jesus of Nazareth. The words ‘Let
there by Light,’ are found in the Old Testa-
ment and are applied to the Universe having
at the same time a spiritual meaning. These
words are found all through the New Testa-
ment, implying, a command: ‘Let there
Light!’

“The words, ‘Where Liberty has Arisen,’
are thought of as being the original motto,
and the founders of this institution saw fit
to leave the motto for us to follow.”

be
4)

Quintets Train For
Cage Championship

At an carly date teams representing the
four classes plan to begin battle for the col-
lege basketball championship. The Senior,
Junior, Sephomore, and Freshman teams, un-
der the tuteladge of Carl Pritchett, Dean
Rusk, Frontis Johnson, and’ Bill Goodson,
respectively have been practising regularly
for the past ten days. The schedule of games
between the classes will soon be announced.
It is with much interest that each student
will watch the team of his class defend its

honor, Although the season is a bit young

Wildcat Halfback

Dick Bradshaw, who played a Steady
game against.the Cadets

to determine the relative skill of the teams,
it appears that the sophomores are favorites
to cop honors. This may be largely explained
by the fact that varsity players are ineli-
gible for interclass sports. Naturally the
youthful sophs have no varsity players.

Twenty-Eight Students
Enlist for Tournament

In order to get. a‘ good line on prospects
for the tennis team this spring, a tournament
starts on Monday, October 12. All upper
classmen are eligible, but freshmen will not
be allowed to compete. Some close matches
are expected, and it is probable that: there
will be some upsets A few sophomores have

been showing fine tennis ability and intend to

Pritchett Plans Award
For Champion Gymnast

After the football season has passed and
things have slacked up a bit, Capt. Pritchett
plans to stiumlate an interest in body build-
ing by a contest to find the best gymnast in
the student body. This contest is scheduled
for sometime in January. The dates are to
be arranged to suit those wishing to enter
the contest. To the one having the most
points when the contest closes a gold medal
or some suitable trophy is to be given. Points
are given for satisfactory demonstration of
each exercise. Various exercises have differ-
ent point values. On the horizontal bar one
may earn one point for the “front pull up,”
two points for the “muscle grind,” or ten
points for the giant swing. It is possible to
make 33 points on exercises with the hori-
zontal War.

On the parallel bar 47 points may be earn-
ed by such maneuvers as the “hand stand” or
“shoulder stand.” The horse stand offers a
total of 21 points and the “trumbling” offers
29 points.

In chinning one must chin six times to
qualify, and then for each additional time a
point is given. It is the same in the “swing-
up”—six times to qualify and a point for each
extra “swing.”

All contestants who accumulate a hundred
or more points will be excused from further
gyth classes. re

To those wishing to enter,*there is posted
at the old armory a list of the different exer-
cises and their point value.

give the old letter men a real struggle.

Twenty-eight men, a comparatively large
number, have signed up for the tournament.
Halverstadt, Poe, Dubose, Rusk, Moore,
Fain, S. B. McClean, and Johnston have
been seeded.

The first three rounds will be two out of
three sets. The semi-finals will probably go
to three out of five. If everything runs off
smoothly, the finals will be staged sometime
next week. The tournament will serve the
purpose of naming, or giving a good idea as
to whom the next members of the tennis
team will be. 4

OLD GOLD brought about a great change in smoking
habits. It gave smokers a new freedom of enjoyment
- . . without any forbidden limits.

The man who used to say “I can’t smoke until after
lunch . . . my throat is sensitive in the morning’”’
now finds that he can “light up’? whenever he pleases.
For his morning OLD GOLD has no more throat-
scratch than his breakfast omelet.

Likewise all those who have to guard their throats...
salesmen, singers, actors, and the like... no longer

Mother N ature makes them smoother and better . .

iolet Rays of Sunshine

not “artificial treatment”—make OLD GOLD
---@ better and a smoother cigarette  .

have to stint their smokes, for OLD GOLD is as free
of throat irritants as a glass of spring water.

Better tobaccos did it . . . naturally good tobaccos...
extra-primme leaf made irritation-free by the violet
rays of sunshine ... not by “artificial treatment.’’

If you like food that is naturally good, instead of
food made good by “‘artificial treatment” . . . you’re
sure to prefer OLD GOLD’S natural tobacco smooth-
ness. Try a package ... . and get a vote of thanks
from both your throat and taste.

© P. Lorillard Co., Est. 6360

. with “not a cough in a carload’’

‘On your Radio, OLD GOLD—PAUL WHITEMAN HOUR, Paul Whiteman, with his complete orchestra, erery Te-qtor * tn 19 P.M, Eastern Standard Time
