HOME-COMING ISSUE

KICK-OFF TODAY STUNT PROGRAM
AT 2:30 AT 7:30
STADIUM AUDITORIUM
“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”
Vol. XVII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 16, 1929 No. 9

Davidson Greets Friends With Intensive Program

WILDCATS TO BATTLE TARHEELS ON RICHARDSON FIELD

Annual Gridiron Battle
Features Home-Coming
of Many Davidson Men

Both Teams Have Enviable Records
Against Opposition Met to Date

KICK-OFF CALLED AT 2:30
Many Individual Stars Will Be Seen

in Action as Ancient Rivals Meet
This Afternoon

Today, Home-Coming, Coach “Monk”
Younger’s Davidson Wildcats will do battle
on Richardson Field with Coach Chuck Col-
lin’s Tar Heels from Chapel Hill. In spite
of the fact that the odds are very much
against them, Coach Monk’s ‘boys will go
into the game determined to give the Tar
Heels their greatest battle of the year. All
familiar with either of the two schools will
vouch for the fact that when Davidson meets
Carolina, something great is certain to hap-
pen, regardless of the relative standing of
the two teams.

Carolina brings a team to Davidson her-
alded as the greatest produced in the state
for all time. Having only a defeat at the
hands of the University of Georgia to mar
a perfect record, the Tar Heels indeed come
with a great reputation. It is interesting to
note that they have defeated such outstand-
ing teams as those from Georgia Tech, V.
P. I., and South Carolina. They have aver-
aged scoring over thirty-five points on each
of their opponents. This is certainly an un-
usual record, especially in consideration of
the fact that Carolina has played many of
the better Southern teams. With them, they
will bring to Richardson Field such men as
Capt.. Ray Farris, stellar guard, who is
being mentioned as an All-American pros-
pect. In the backfield such stars as Spaulding,
Magner, Nash, Slusser, Branch, and Wyrick
are expected to do outstanding works

Davidson, too, has rather an admirable
record in consideration of various circum-
stances. Nation-wide comment has favored
the fighting Wildcats since the great battle

(Continued on Page,2)

Weems Comes By Plane
to Visit Davidson Today

Capt. Geo. H. Weems, former head of the
Reserve Officers’ Training Corps at David-
son, and now a tactical officer at Langley
Feld in Virginia, is among the large num-
ber of visitors at Davidson today for the
annual Home-Coming celebration. Captain
Weem’s return, however, is unique, for he
came to Charlotte yesterday by airplane and
was met there by local friends, who brought
him here for the week-end festivities:

During the four years that Captain Weems
was at Davidson he proved to be one of the
most popular members of the military staff,
and was prominent in the activities of the
institution. It was largely through his efforts
that the R. O. T. C. unit developed remark-
ably, and the first distinguished rating came
while he was commandant. He also coached
the wrestling team, and his former valuable
experience in this sport aided the individual
matmen in their combats.

Last fall Robert Critz, of Winston-Salem,
an alumnus of Davidson, brought several of
his friends to the Home-Coming celebration
here by airplane, landing at a private air-
port in Huntersville. Captain Weems’ visit
is the second one made to Davidson by this
means of travel. Should the demand increase
for landing field facilities, a movement might
be started’ to establish a suitable one nearby.

Davidson Program
Broadcast Fron WBT

The annual radio program given by the
Alumni Office of Davidson, Ernest Milton,
Director, went over in fine style Thursday
evening from Charlotte's station WBT. This
All-Davidson entertainfifent has been on the
air for three years now, and each occasion
has been more successful. than the preceeding
one. It is believed that such a radio program
is very instrumental in keeping touch with
friends of the college in every part of the
country. It is planned to make the broadcast
an annual event in connection with Home-
Coming Day.

Many telegrams from all parts of the
South were received by those in charge of
the program, commending both the idea and
the quality of the entertainment offered. Dis-
tant sections of the land where Davidson
alumni are located contributed wires also.

Prof Archibald Currie, who addressed the
unseen audience last year, was again the
chief speaker, and the Davidson Glee Club
and Orchestra under direction of Prof. Er-
nest Cullum rendered music. The complete
program broadcast over WBT Thursday
night follows:

1. College Ties—Davidson Glee Club.
2.,Orchestra Number.

3. Talk by Prof. A. Currie.

4. Orchestra Number.

5. “O Miss Lucindy” Deepen—Glee Club.
6. Orchestra Number.

7. “Winter Song,” Bullard—Glee Club.
8. “I Get the Blues When It Rains,”—

Orchestra and Chorus.

9. “O Davidson,”—Orchestra.

The program went on the air at seven
o'clock and continued for approximately half
an hour.

Championship Band From
Lenoir High Here Today

The Lenoir High School Band, composed
of fifty-four players, will be a feature of the
Home-Coming program today. The band
made the trip from Lenoir, N. C., to David-
son this morning in time to be present at
most of the exercises, and to prepare for
their work of the afternoon, when the band
will play during the gridiron clash between
the University of North Carolina and David-
son.

High school boys compose the personnel
of the organization, but in recent years the
Lenoir band has acquired a distinct person-
ality of its own. It has been asked to play
at most leading football games in this section,
and has had a feature part in many festivals

and celebrations throughout the state. James:

C. Harper, Davidson graduate in the class
of 1915, is Director of the band. This fact,
of course, lends interest to all Davidson men,

The band played here last year at the
Home-Coming game and aroused most favor-
able comment. It also played at the Caro-
lina-Virginia game at Chapel Hill last fall,
and because of its excellent impression was
asked to serve at this classic again this fall.

J. Max Hendrix, 14, of Greensboro, was
unanimously elected president of the North
Carolina Fox Hunters Association at a busi-
ness meeting of that organization in Fayette-
ville. Several Davidson alumni have been
prominent in this organization, a past presi-
dent ‘being Thomas W. Rankin, ’09, of Fay-
etteville.

Friends will regret to learn of the death

of W. C. Garrison, of Richburg, S. C., father

of R: G. Garrison, ’26.

Be
™

Day’s Events

10:30 A. M.—O r g an Recital by
Eugene Craft, of Charlotte.
11:00 A. M.—First Verse of “College
Ties.”
Address of Welcome, Dr. J. M.
McConnell.

Names of Deceased Alumni, Prof,
Ernest Beaty. :
Address of the Day, Dr. Walter

L. Lingle, President of David-
son.
Second Verse of “College Ties.”
12:00 M—R. O. T. C. Parade, Sprunt
Field.
1:00 P. M.—Alumni Luncheon.
2:30 P. M.—Football Game, Rich-
ardson Field
7:30 P. M.—Stunt Night.
(Note: All events, unless other
wise designated as above, will be in

Chambers Building.)

Class Stunt Program to :
Be Presented Tonight in
Auditorium of Chambers

Program to be Composed of
Different Types of Stunts

ORCHESTRA WILL PLAY

New Talent Discovered for Use in
Presentation of Acts—Two
Weeks Used in Preparation

The last two weeks have’ seen intensive
preparation for the annual stunt hight, which
is to be held tonight in Chambers auditor-
ium. The program is made up of a variety
of acts, séveral being comical, and some of
a serious nature. Although the program has
largely been kept secret, something of its
nature has been ascertained.

The Freshman stunt is to be made up of
three sketches. First: there will be a novelty
act in which some of the best Freshman
talent on the hill is used. Second: there will
be a short play, or skit, which is to be comi-
cal. The third item on the program will be
made up of musical numbers in original
presentatwgn. As there has been much time
put on this act, it is expected to be very
entertaining. The following will take part;
J. Marvin, J. E. Lake, J. V. Enochs, E. T.
McKeithan, Arthur Ross, O. Norman, S. P.
Preston, A. Mebane, Bruce Sugg, L. Mullins,
C. M. Norfleet, D. Pardington, D. D. Mc-
Bryde, and J. Hudson.

A minstrel is to be presented by the Jun-
iors. The stunt is composed almost entirely
of blackface comedy, assisted by a chorus
of fifteen. The minstrel is under the direction
of Professor Kimbrough. There are to be
four end men. Hub Covington, Joe McCall,
Bill Mason, and Boots Wilson. New: jokes

(Continued on Page 2)

Chamelon To Appear
n

The first issue of the Chameleon
will go to press within the next
ten days. Any student desiring to
submit a manuscript for publication
must do so before the 21st of No-
vember. Poems may be handed to
F. D. Miller, and short stories or |
sketches “te J. W. McCutchan;. or
they may be handed to the editor,
R. F. Jarratt.

Lenoir-Rhyne Host
to Press Convention

The North Carolina Collegiate Press As-
sociation will meet in Hickory, N. C., the
week-end of November 21, 22, 23. The host
for this convention will be the members of
the at Lenoir-Rhyne
which is located at Hickory,

association College,

At the present time there does not seem to
be much prospect of “a flourishing session,
but by the time of the convention, no doubt,
matters of importance will come up for dis-
cussion. A general good time, including
entertaining social activity will be enjoyed
by all. Several fine have
obtained for the these will very
probably give many suggestions to. the staff
members of the College publications in the
state,

speakers been

session ;

In the past, two delegates have been sent
to the convention from each publication.
These have usually been the editor and the
business manager, either of whom can ap-
point a substitute. R. F. Jarratt, the presi-
dent of the association, also editor of the
Chameleon, will preside at all meetings.
The following will probably attend the con-
vention as delegates from Davidson's pub-
lications: E. 1. Roberson, business manager
of the Chameleon; C. M. Pratt, and W. R.
Hill, editor and business manager *respect-
ively of Quips and Crank; Z. V. Long, editor
and E, H. McCall, business manager of the
Davidsonian,

Eugene Craft Presents

Organ Recital This A. M.

Will Precede Feature Address of
Day by Dr. Lingle

Eugene Craft, prominent North Carolina
organist, has accepted an invitation to give
a thirty minute organ recital at~Davidson
college today. This event will open the pro-
gram of the annual celebration, although this
recital has been arranged especially for alum-
ni of this institution, students are urged to
attend. This interesting musical event will
start promptly at 10:30 a. m. and will be
concluded by 11:00 o'clock, at which time
the address of the day will be delivered by
Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of the col-
lege. It is understood that Doctor Lingle’s
talk will be on some subject concerning the
connection of Davidson Alumni to the col-
lege in the past and in the future.

Many of the Davidson alumni who will be
here for the gala exercises of the day have
not yet had the opportunity of hearing our
fine, new organ and hundreds of other visitors
will be glad of the chance to hear it played
by an experienced organist. This organ is
the gift of Mrs. Cameron Morrison, of Char-
lotte to whom we are greatly indebted. Mr.
Craft opened the fall session with a brief
recital at the first day's exercises, and he
probably realizes as much as any one else,
the true worth of the organ. Dean Vardell
of Salem College gave a lengthy recital
when it was dedicated on November 1.

Mr. Craft is very well known in the musi-
cal world. He spent last year in Paris, study-
ing under the famous organist, Dupre, who
recently appeared in several North Carolina
cities, Mr. Craft is rendering valuable as-
sistance to the local department of music due
to his instructive ability. The recital will be
of great interest to all music lovers on the
campus today.

TODAY

Great Entertainment to
Be Staged For Returning
Alumni Begins Today

Dr. Lafferty to Preside at Exercises
This Morning—Varied Program

MANY NOTABLES TO ATTEND
Student Night in Auditorium to be
Interesting Event for Students
and Visitors
Davidson's Home-Coming celebration to-
day far excels any attempts made in previous
years to welcome returning alumni of the
college, and to provide entertainment for
friends of the institution who take this
opportunity of visiting the campus, and see-
ing for themselves a real picture of student
life. The program, from start to finish, is
filled with events of prime interest to all
familiar in any way with Davidson, and it
is expected that large numbers of people
will be in attendance at each exercise of the
day. Every arrangement has been made to
take care of the crowd which will throng |
Richardson Field when the Wildcats tangle
with Carolina’s Tar Heels. Ample parking
space is available. The kick-off is scheduled

for 2:30 o'clock.

“This morning, the organ recital by Eugene
Craft, noted organist of Charlotte, will be-
gin at 10:30 and continue until 11, thus giving
the audience time to assemble in Chambers
Auditorium, where the chief exercise of the
morning will take place. Dr. R. H. Lafferty
of. Charlotte, Vice-President of the Alumni
Association will preside at this gathering.
Dr. J. M. McConnell will give the welcom-
ing address, and Prof. Ernest Beaty will the
names of alumni deceased during the past
year. After these two units have been finish-
ed, the President of Davidson, Dr. Walter
L. Lingle will make his first official address
to the alumni. ~

The R. O. T. C. parade on Sprunt Field
will follow the meeting in Chambers, and
at the conclusion of this parade the annual
Alumni Luncheon will be given in the ban-
quet hall of Chambers Building.

Two o'clock will witness the exodus of
the entire crowd of students and alumni to
Richardson Field, where they will join with

(Continued on Page 2)

Alumni to Meet at
Informal Luncheon

Davidson College alumni, their guests and
other friends of the institution are invited
to a luncheon to be given in the banquet hall
of Chambers building at one o'clock today.
Alumni officials have arranged this event
for the benefit of those who have traveled
to Davidson from a distance, and who ar-
rived enough participate in the
morning exercises.

The affair will be informal, and no pro-
gram has been arranged for the occasion.
It is served somewhat in cafeteria style,
sandwiches of several kinds, fruits, deserts
and a variety of both cold and hot drinks
being available to the visitors. It -has been
arranged so that alumni can go from group
to group and converse at will. No elaborate
luncheon is attempted, and the favorable
comments passed on to the authorities here-
tofore have led to this form of affair again
this Home-Coming.

During the luncheon the guests will be en-
tertained by several members of the David-
son orchestra. Only a few instruments will
be used in the banquet hall, for the acoustics
will not permit a complete orchestra.

early to
