THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 5, 1929

KIM’S KOLUMN

(Continued from Page 5)

Booth, . characterized as Yale’s modern
Frank Hinkey, beat Brown, Army and Dart-
mouth almost single-handed on successive
Saturdays. In these three games alone he
chalked up thirty-eight points, which repre-
sented the sum total of the Blue’s scoring.
A David among the Goliaths of the gridiron
he does a David act without the aid of a
slingshot. His dwarfishness as compared with
the bulk of his mates and massive enemies
makes his exploits even more spectacular. He
is great because he has uncanny football in-
stinct, a keen eye, a hair-trigger mind, plus
perfect co-ordination and subtle cunning.

As anchor men we have chosen Fesler of
Ohio State and Donchess of Pittsburgh.

Although not as consistent as last year,
Fesler was again the best wingman in the
country. He knew how to box a tackle and
permitted few runs around his end. As a
striking tribute to his sterling play opponents
seldom sent plays in his direction.

Donchess is undoubtedly the most im-

proved player on the Pittsburgh squad. Con- |

sidered good last year, his play during this
campaign just past was almost flawless. He
covered punts and downed the receivers with
monotonous regularity; snagged passes with
uncanny certainty and defended his extrem-
ity of the line like nobody’s business.

Booma of Dartmouth and Muller of Stan-|

ford were the best of the other wings.

“Sleight and Armstrong”—truly sounds |

like the name of a vaudeville act—actually
it is the identifying theme song of the best
pair of tackles in captivity.

“Red” Sleight has been one of the main-

He is a 200-pound six-footer, who made his |
bid for an All-American berth in the Michi- |
gan game, The Wolverine was leading 16 to|
6, when it occurred to the Boilermarker |
quarter to send a couple of backs off Red’s |
side of the Jine. It worked and Purdue won
30 to 16.

Armstrong, of Dartmougth, cannot be left
off any honorary eleven. Big and fast, he is
the type of player who can function any-
where. He understands the game and knows
how to adjust himself to conditions. Always
hard to keep out of plays, Armstrong is
respected by coaches and players alike for
his ability both on offense and defense.

Nagurski, of Minnesota, is a natural tackle,
although he has seen considerable service
at fullback. Utz, of Pennsylvania, has played
a great all-round game this season, although
it was his misfortune to be on a mediocre
team.

Two veterans stand out at guard—Mont-
gomery of Pittsburgh and Law of Notre
Dame.

“Monty” Montgomery—19 years old, a
senior, playing his third year on the Panther
varsity—is the most underpublicized player
in the game today, and just about the best
interference runner. Jack Sutherland, his
coach regards “Monty” as his “most valua-
ble player.” He’s the fellow who makes the
holes for Parkinson and Uansa.

The wisdom of Knute Rockne’s policy of
a light, but fast, line is exemplified to a
high degree in the aggressiveness of John
Law, who has often been styled “the guard
without a weakness.” He was quick to drop
out of the line and head the interference;
Savage in rushing an opposing kicker; one
of the games most vicious tacklers.

Anderson, captain of Northwestern and
Swartz, California, are but a step behind
Montgomery and Law.

And now we come to the vital pivot posts,
the centers. There has been a dearth of
great centers for the past few years. Cer-
tainly no ball snapper of today can compare
with “Germany” Shultz of Michigan or Win
Lovejoy of Yale, stars of yesterday.

For all-around value, Ben Ticknor, of
Harvard and Roy Riegels of California pos-
sible deserve the nominations.

Ticknor is the balance wheel of the 21-
jewel Harvard line. He is an accurate passer,
agile, a power on offense in taking out ‘his
man; sturdy on defense; a versatile linesman
as. was proved in the Yale game when, due
to an injury to his hands he was unable to
snap the ball with accuracy, he stepped over
and filled a guard’s position with apparent
ease. :

Roy Reigels, “goat” of the 1928 game with
Georgia Tech in the Rose Bowl, although a
consistent player, is not of the flashy type.
His passing on California’s intricate forma-
tions was accurate. He played a roving posi-
tion on defense’ and covered a lot of ground.

Heroes all of them—and worthy of the
glowing tributes that were written and the
even greater tributes that were paid by the
cheering, howling, frenzied fans.

These two teams are strong in every de-
partment. Offensively each ranks with like
selections df former years; while defensively
neither has a perceptible weakness.

| WILDCATS DEFEAT

| (Continued from page 1)

| was stoped only by a fighting defense amass-
ed 22 first downs and gained almost a hun-
dred yards more than did Davidson. But it
failed in one essential point—that of running
/up points, And this game was decided on
| number of points scored, and not how many
first downs were made.

The Wildcats started the scoring off early
in the game. On the first play that Davidson
had the ball, Brock stepped back and punted
|over the Duke safety man’s head, the ball
| going 70 yards to the’ Duke five yard line.
| When Buie punted, it was downed on his
|own forty yard line. Parrish tried a stab at
| the line, but was tossed back for three yards.
| Then Joe McCall darted off right tackle,
| somehow eluded three or four tacklers, and
Iran on across the goal line standing up. Brock
| kicked the goal—his tenth this season—to
| give Davidson a lead of seven points before
the game was as many minutes old. It was
| the third play that Davidson had run.

A recovered fumble paved the way for
another Wildcat threat. Brewer received
| Brock’s kickoff and was tackled so hard by

Fraley that he fumbled, Milton recovering,
| Two line plays failed to gain much for Dav-
|idson, then Brohard lobbed an easy pass to
| Parrish, He had an open field’ before him

| with the goal only fifteen yards away, but
jhe let the ball slip through his hands, and
| when another pass went out of bounds, it
j was Duke's ball on their own 26 yard line.
| With Beaver, Brewer, and Buie alternat-
jing in carrying the ball, the Blue Devil

| attack swept up the field with the resistless-
stays of Purdue's forward-wall all season. | ness of a tidal wave.

Buie swept around right
end for the last 25 yards to score and then
he failed to kick the goal. During most of the
second quarter the ball was in midfield, with
neither team able to gain consistently enough
to score. Duke generally made a first down
every time they got the ball, but never could
hold it long enough to threaten seriously.

_Near the later part of the period, however,
Godfrey started hitting the line for. con-
sistent gains, and carried the ball to David-
son's seven yard line before he was stopped.
He carried the-ball on nearly all of the plays,
and gained regularly until he got within the
fifteen yard line.

Then came Brock’s thrilling run, placing
the ball on the five yard line. McCall and
Bradshaw failed to make the distance on two
plunges, and Hewlett who had been sent in
to run the team, sent McQueen over to score,
Brock missed the goal. The half ended two
plays later. °

The final score should have been 13 to 6,
but Davidson tried to pass deep in their own
territory and the Blue Devils intercepted it.
Robeson and Godfrey had carried the ball
up the field from their 20 yard line but
Davidson had again held them when the
goal line was threatened. King and Parrish
made'thirty yards in two consecutive plays,
then Godfrey intercepted the pass on the
forty yard line. A pass made 14 yards, then
Godfrey kept hitting the line consistently
and pushed the ball over for a touchdown,
making the 13 to b2. With the extra point
needed to tie the game, Duke faked a place
kick and tried to send Godfrey over for the
point. But eleven fighting Wildcats, deter-

it is our belief that the eleven youngsters
who comprise the first eleven could take care
of themselves in any company.

LES NIEGES D’ANTAN
(Continued from Page 5)
obey the sun, ever going, never willing;
ever hoping for life, never having death;
ever to be a puppet in the hands of fate,
never to be free; ever to search, never to
find. Always moving, moving, moving.

It used to be, we understand, the
People’s thirst for knowledge that took
them abroad, but now its just their thirst.
—Ex.

a

ACTIVE CANVASSING

(Continued from page 1)
North Carolina. The Tufts Memorial Asso-

ciation is headed by Mr. Edgar H. Tufts, Jr.
who took up the work upon his father’s
death. Mr. Tufts is a very young man, a
member of the class of 1922, a prominent

COLLEGE MAKES PLANS

(Continued from page 1)
would be pleased to give Davidson as much
time as she wanted whenever the pre-ar-
ranged program permitted.
The tendency of stations nowadays, said
this radio official, is to make programs edu-

member of the student body and a member | cational. He stated that the federal radio

of O. D. K. while at Davidson. Dr. Frazer
Hood is on the board of trustees while.R. O.
Flinn, (Dick) Class of '29, and L. K. Prit-
chett, class of '28, are both members of the
faculty, the former as professor of mathema-
tics and athletic coach, the latter as exe-
cutive secretary and professor of Law and
Economics,

Besides the Lees-McRae Institute, the as-
sociation maintains the Grandfather Orphan-
age and the Grace Hospital and Nurses
Training School, all of which are for the
service of the mountain districts. The ‘three
establishments form a wonderfully organized
unit in which the orphan baby can be taken
care of, later sent to the Lees-McRae Insti-
tute, and then if a girl, can receive her degree
in nursing in the hospital and in any case
can return to his or her home equipped with
the knowledge and desire for a fuller life
for self and family.

The Lees-McRae Institute was the first
unit to be built after the church was founded
at Banner Elk in 1900. It has since developed,
in 1926 absorbing the Plum Tree School for
Boys when the establishment burned, until it
now provides for 77 boys and 144 girls a total
of 221 students drawn from the mountains of
North Carolina, and also of Tennessee, Vir-
ginia and seven other southern states. The
girls are well provided for in two entirely
modern dormitories which are used as a first
class summer’ resort in the summer months,
but the boys have to content themselves in a
very inadequate structure until money can
be raised for the erection of one unit of the
proposed boys’ dormitories.

Grace Hospital, the largest and best equip-
ped hospital in a town of the size of Banner
Elk in the United States, serves nine coun-
ties. Doctors Tate and Hardin, both excel-
lent,surgeons and physicians have, with great
sacrifice, made it possible for several thou-
sand people to be taken care of yearly which
would be otherwise in great need of medical
service. The hospital, which is soon to be
replaced with a sixty bed building, runs at
maximum capacity at all times, having 25
beds full every day, bost of which are
charity cases. Over 500 major operations ate
performed by the doctors each year. A quali-
fied training school for nurses is conducted
in connection with the hospital.

mined that victory should be theirs, rose up
and smothered the play before it could reach
the line of scrimmage.

There was’time for only two more plays
after the kickoff, and as the timekeeper blew
his whistle ending the game, a roar of victory
went up from the Davidson stands, a game
that was a perfect example of that Wildcat
fighting spirit was over.

Duke Position Davidson
IMAVeSs Conese Re ssioee ee Brock (c)
Kistler (c) --.---- TD ers See Baker
Maylot.cssss2sscse LG 22 See DeCamp
AAAKING oo Scecsh Centet2222655 3 Milton
hOtne Sos sce ses RG eo een oe Mathis
Davis jose Ra ee eee Covington
Blyat ty sae oie RBs cose Brown
Roskyieces22s2so>— OBeaosasccecees Fraley
Biers oe 1D} eG poeta nee, Parrish
Robeson __---_-.--- RE sos eee McCall
Brewer s28c 22220) Be ooo seueees Brohard

Score by periods:
DUG ese ee SS 6 0 0 6—12
Davidson: <=. 228s 28 ogee! 7 6 0 0—13

Duke scoring : touchdowns, Buie and God-
frey,

Davidson scoring: touchdowns: McCall
and McQueen; points after touchdown,

Brock (placement).
Officials: Brice. (Auburn) referee; Cass
(Lehigh) umpire; Brewer (Maryland) head-

linesman,

$29.50

Friendly Five Shoes

“Wether this selection is the wisest, the
fairest, the best—is open to conjecture. But

|

- STETSON “D” STORE .

Opposite Campus
PP eieikens 200°

Everything
The College Man Should Wear

$34.50

Bostonian Shoes

commission was particularly concerned over
this matter, and that he believed Davidson

would be able to assist them tremendously.

in meeting the demands of the ones in charge
of the continuance or discontinuance of a
station. During the course of the interview
it was learned that only forty-nine other
stations are as powerful as the one in Char-
lotte, a fact which few people realize.

Doctor Lingle is favorable to the proposed
plan of broadcasting, and only questions
whether a program of a fine calibre could
be put on the air each Monday evening.
Since it is to be known as the “Davidson
College Hour,” it is expected to be repre-
sentative of Davidson and such representation
should be of the best at all times, said the
Davidson head.

As soon as a report was made to the
Davidson president regarding the matter, he
got in touch with Mr. Morgan Speir, in
charge of the Southern Bell Telephone and
Telegraph Company of this section, and ob-
tained figures as to the possible cost of a
circuit between Davidson and Charlotte. The
quotations seemed favorable to Doctor Lin-
gle. However, no definite action will be taken
upon the matter until he presents it to the
Executive Committee of the Board of Trus-
tees, and it is not believed that a meeting
of this body will be called until after the
holiday season. Should they approve, then
Davidson will have a direct line to Station
WBT, and the broadcasts from the college
will grow with the passing weeks.

Arrangements for broadcasting between
now and Christmas will be the same as in
the past. The orchestra and glee club are
planning to give an hour’s program over
WBT next Monday night, between 7 and 8
o'clock. Those in charge of these two or-
ganizations have been urged to present the
best program possible, and during this week
they will be practicifig strenuously for’ this
broadcast. It is thought that considerable
will depend upon the future, as to how well
the students present the college over the
radio next Monday night.

As a committee to map out and work on
the radio programs Doctor Lingle, by author-
ization of the faculty, has appointed five men
who include: Prof. Ernest J. Cullum, Prof.
Archibald Currie, Prof. Henry T. Lilly,
Capt. Norton G. Pritchett and Ernest Milton.

Worse Than A Fire

For A Going Concern.

Fire usually calls when men and ma-
chinery are working at top speed—
when profits are largest,

Should your plant be damaged or
destroyed by fire tonight, would you
pay dividends and meet continuing fixed
expenses—without using your reserve.

Let us explain how Business Inter-
ruption Insurance will fill the breach
in such a situation and leave untouched
your reserve.

It's safer to have insurance—
and not need it!

Independence Trust Co: :

Insurance Department

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

LAN

Eat

Eats

CE’S

Wild Cat Belts
Felt Goods

Sundries

New Records Every Week
Superior Soda Service

W.S. HENDERSON

Magazines |
Stationery
Fountain Pens

Special Designs

DELUXE ICE CREAM

At Students’ Store and Dealers

MOORESVILLE ICE CREAM COM PANY

Mooresville, N. C.

Brick Eskimo Pies

MONDAY and TUESDAY, DECEMBER 9th and 10th
“Four Feathers’

with
WILLIAM POWELL
WEDNESDAY and THURSDAY, DECEMBER 11th and 12th
“It’s a Great Life”

with
THE DUNCAN SISTERS

Davidson Theatre

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 13th

“Rich People”
with

CONSTANCE BENNETT

SATURDAY, DECEMBER 14th
| “Officer O’Brien”
ith

_ Ww
WILLIAM BOYD

DAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA

2
