THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 7, 1929

| *

Collegiate
Comment

FEATURES

0

On This
and That

Music
By
Horace W. Elvin

ITS PRACTICALITY

_Music culture in its large sense is the most
liberal and humanistic of all_ studies, perhaps
not even red diy literature. Thus from this, it
follows that there is no subject, not one, in the
high school and college curriculums that.shoald
be taken by so large a proportion of students.
About every young man and maiden should do
something with it. The greatest of all functions
of college music is to acquaint not only special
but general students with a wide range of the
best music, to insure not only acquaintance with,
but infection by, the great masterpieces of all

lands and ages.
—G STANLEY HALL.

People have always regarded music as an
art and have been prone to associate it with
such pursuits as painting, sculpturing, and
the like. That is nothing amiss, for music
is primarily an art. But it can be presented,
too, in another aspect, namely as a science.
That may be difficult to accept at first, but
a short logical inquiry into the matter will
reveal the truth involved.

A musical selection is not just a fortuitous
arrangement of chords; it is a premediated
and well-constructed composition after a
set code of rules, A mere note recorded and
supplemented by additional notes or chords
will not comprise a piece. The composer is
bound to take notice of particular rules in
regard to number of beats in a measure,
tempo of the passage, effect of a major or
minor key on the mood of a Piece, important

nuances of shading, and other accepted
standards.

There are many textbooks on music with
‘theorems and problems, just as in mathema-
tics or physics. Many abstruse treatese have
been written on the subject, which are re-
condite to the layman. A virtuoso pianist
can play a beautiful chérd on his instrument,
exactly correct in respect of musical laws;
the layman will delight in but the playing of
the chord, without knowing or dreaming
that there has been any observance of rules.

And yet the pianist has been guided by a
standard. of accepted laws of harmony and
melody that govern his composing. He has
for years been schooled in methods of har-
monizing notes, of expressing his thoughts
in music; he has been drilled in the technic
of playing and interpreting the thoughts of
other composers. In short, he has learned
the “science” of music.

Technical though it is, however, music is
not merely a science. It is more than that,
for besides obeying certain laws, it is some-
thing spiritual which companions with peo-
ple and engenders or increases in them a
human sympathy. And if one would learn
but the science of music and lose sight of its
great human appeal, he is like a scientist
who delights in formulas but never applics
them to practical use.

This human appeal we have just mentioned
is, according to Daniel Gregory Mason,
threefold. First there is Sensuous, the appeal
to the ear. We are soothed by the clear mel-
low tone of a ’cello or of a violin. Even
animals are susceptible to this. appeal, Second
is Aesthetic, the appeal to the mind. The
individual must perceive, must use his mind.
He must see the shapeliness or beauty of
music. Finally is Expressive, the appeal to
emotions. Music, it has been well said, is

VVVYVVVVVYVVVVVVYVYVYVVVYVVV
STUDENTS, —
ATTENTION! |

For self-supporting students de-
siring fascinating, remunerative
work either temporary or perma-
nent, may I suggest that many stu-
dents of both sexes have earned
scholarships and cash sufficient to
defray all college expenses, repre-
senting national magazine publish-
ers. If interested, write or wire for
details—M. A. Steele, National Or-
ganizer, 5 Columbus Circle, New
York, N. Y.
AMAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA

@
|
i

the language of the emotions. And this ap-
peal should be the greatest, the most per-
sonal of all.

If we were to request a place in a school
curriculum for music, we should be imprud-
ent to introduce it as an art. An art, we
would be told, is to be studied and learned as
a hobby and cannot be granted space in a
curriculum of practical subjects. Perhaps we
should meet with better success by applying
to the department of science for the addition
of a new course known as musology. °.

The hindrance in modern institutions of
learning, in this respect, seems to be that
music is not recognized as having any practi-
cal value. In a facetious vein we might be
inclined. to wonder that we spend consider-
able time in biological laboratory studying
the internal anatomy of bugs and beetles, a
great part of which we seldom if ever see
(and certainly not their internal anatomies)
and a small part of which we make occas-
ional investments to exterminate; while the
study of music, of which in after life we hear
and enjoy a great part of its compositions,
and the unheard and unenjoyed small part
of which we do not bother to expunge from
record—the study of music, we say, is passed
over in school as but incidentally useful and
of little practical value !

We are not so libertine as to advise the
abolition of biological laboratory in college
nor to advocate the installation of music as
a major subject. But we do assert that a
course in musical appreciation should be
given a more prominent place in the curri-
culum, much the same as literature, and es-
pecially so since’ the radio has made music
so important.a ‘factor in home life.

For music affects the spiritual nature of
man—it softens his temper and awakens his
sympathies. Confucius was cognizant of this
in saying, ‘‘When music and courtesy are
better understood there will be no war.” It
has often been pointed out that a great fault
in our modern system of education is the
lack of spiritual training. Science, language,
and physical education are taught, but spirit-
ual enlightenment, which in a broad sense
embraces the finer things of life, including
music, is allowed to deteriorate.

If it be thought that music has no dis-
ciplinary effect on the mind, we can but refet
to the words of Dr. Charles Eliot: “Music,
rightly taught, -is the best mind trainer on
the list. We should have more practical sub-
jects, like music and drawing, and less gram-
mar and arithmetic.” If so great a mind as
Doctor Eliot realized the high value of music
and if such men as Confucius, Napoleon, and
Woodrow Wilson recognized its practical-
ness, it seems entirely right that music
should be given more attention in educa-
tional systems.

STOP
that
COLD and COUGH
take

olde&x

Che “QUICK RELIKF’ Cold Remedy for
College Studente, sold by a Colles. Stndent

YOUR URUGGISI ll Jim Galloway
HAS COLDEX U. of S.C. .

Ee a tiveieere se)

Nouvelle Evant-hier
Know Davidson
RES W;

Paeans of achievement! Unsatisfactory re-
nunciation of Fame! Collegiate inquiry; un-
adorned quests for truth. Life, death and
fate; all these things on the pages of time.
Glorious freedom; limitless hope; changing
stars of ambition: these travel on the beams
of the moon searching into the caves of dark-
ness, unearthing happiness, time and all
knowledge. Davidson College, old, strong, a
fortress of life, blowing away in smoke,
being rebuilt by the very stones that compose
it, passing onward and onward toward those
things which. succeed generation after gen-
eration of man, to what future? To that
future portrayed by past events; welded into
that frame which fills the lives of many
with great sadness and great hope; weaving
that cape which falls upon man and men;
knitting threads that bind the future closer
to the past; laying cobblestones along “That
road, which to discover we must travel, too.”

Scientific discovery is a zealous tendency
in most lives; the. need for finding things,
trying experiments, satisfying curiosity is a
need each man must fill in his own way;
some investigate a thousand ways in which
to say a single thought; some perfect that
method of building which others have tried;
many seek the principle of a geometric prob-
lem; others the expansion of mathematical
equations, In 1896 there was made in David-
son the second X-ray picture ever to be pho-
tographed in the United States. The physics
class had heard of the discovery of ROntgen
rays and made an investigation of its princi-
ples. The picture was made on a kodak plate
and suffered a three hour exposure after
which a magnifying glass, an egg, one finger
from the dissecting lab., a pin, a gun cart-
ridge, and a few calomel tablets, all con-
tained in a small box, were revealed to the
astonished eyes of the young scientists. And
to complete the work along this line, a pro-
fessor in the Medical School here was the
first man in our country to use the X-ray
in finding a particle in the human body. His
apparatus consisted of storage batteries, an
induction coil, Crookes tube and a small hand
fluoroscope.

Increased freedom along any line is a sure
sign of progression; America’s freedom of
speech, and of worship brought about a new
era in the government of all worlds. The
great tendency in education is the develop-
ment of single personalities. Modern univer-
sities invite student opinion; student opinion
invites thought and a careful regard for the
rights of man. Davidson has seen great pro-
gression along these lines of greater de-
pendence on the student. In 1876 no man was
permitted to leave the campus in the morn-
ing, and no one was allowed to leave after
the evening study bell. A trip to our beloved
Mooresville would mean suspension; and a
short while of repentence. Bumming was
done by train; social fraternities were nil
and the only societies were the literary ones.
In the language of the dead, “de gustibus
non disputandem est.”

I once saw an oil well catch fire and blaze

up, burning the derrick above it to the

ground, and I could not but see why Zor-
oaster should see in fire the epiphany of a
great good. Fire at times is an instrument
of destruction; a ghoul, haunting happiness ;
and again it may be a harbinger of kindness
or a raging flame that burns away the
bridges in the river of life. Satan sees in
flame an evil thing, possibly; yet should ke
come here among us in the appearance of
man, and feel the coldness of a winter night
then fire would mean another thing to him.
Fire is a cause and an effect and yet it is
only a beginning. So when old Chambers
was burned on the altar of progress the old
college bell was melted and, broken, lying
among the ashes of hopes from which sprang
anew the phoenix of beauty. Students were
for awhile summoned to class by a small
whistle in the Students Store, but such means
of calling men to education was unsatis-
factory and in 1922 a new bell was donated
by a Charlotte man and dedicated to those

who fell in the war. In its first ringing sang
out the voices of the men who watch and
wait and hope for those who tred the path
in their footsteps. :

Dry sands shift across endless stretches of
mighty deserts. Black mules plod slowly
onward; mules goaded by tiny marionetts.
All are blind. The winds rail; the sands

crash. The lowly mules cease their anguished
labors ;the powerless figures sink and die.
Remorseful winds sweep and enfold the
ghastly forms. And these things I under-
stand. But these I cannot comprehend: The
heedless moving of idle thought; the illegi-
ble, useless plodding of exhuberant spirit;
the incessant wail at the far call of death.
Dark mists hover over these questionings
Land f am blind. But-this I see clearly and in
a bright light. The mountains move; the
sands shift; and man dies. These all are
clear.

FRIDAY NIGHT IS COLLEGE NIGHT

“So This

THE COLLEGE
Musical Comédy Riot

Laughs, Songs, Cheers, Love, Campus
Vamps, and Football Frenzies!
The Finest, Funniest Pictures of-the.
Talking, Singing, Dancing Screen!

WITH
ELLIOT NUGENT CLIFF EDWARDS
and SALLY STARR

Five New Collegiate Song Hits
NOW PLAYING AT

——— IMPERIAL THEATRE ——

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Is College”

Sf-d ti

108

Pees and embossed

Best Quality and Prices

ANY TUPE OF PRINTING
Earnest H. McCall

Sree

Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

Oncr

Watts

7

AT

Srhilition

MISS MINNIE SCOFIELD’S

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
NOV. 11th AND 12th

JOHN V. HOWARD, Rep.

CLOTHES TAILORED-TO-MEASURE
HATS : HABERDASHERY : SHOES
!

RGHLEY

tholf

yale
hes homie”

COMO

THE STYLE CHARTS EMPLOYED
IN THE FULL DRESS AND DINNER
GARMENTS ARE THE SOLE PROP
ERTY OF THIS INSTITUTION AND
EMBRACE THE VARIOUS ELE-
MENTS OF DESIGN CURRENTLY
RECOMMENDED FOR COLLEGIATE
USAGE BY THE MOST NOTABLE
LONDON DRAPERS. FULL AND
ACCURATE ATTENTION ACCORD-
ED SELECTION AND FITTING.

CHICAGO

CORRECT AND DISTINGUISHED
EVENING ATTIRE

DINNER JACKET AND TROUSERS
SIXTY-FIVE DOLLARS AND MORE

FULL DRESS COAT AND TROUSERS
EIGHTY DOLLARS AND’ MORE

——_*}]

