THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 31, 1929

ak

Alderman

Black

1929-1930 MANAGING EDITORS OF THE DAVIDSONIAN

McCutchan

gin ‘

I. R. C. Hears McConnell

On “Naval Disarmament”

Dr. J. M. McConnell, local history profes-
sor, spoke before the International Relations
Club on last Friday evening on the subject,
“Naval Disarmament.” Doctor McConnell
told of the history of the Naval Disarma-
ment movement and pointed out the many
difficulties which lie in the way of curtailing
the ship building. He spoke of Ramsay Mc-
Donald’s visit to this country as a sign of
England’s need for American co-operation
in navat disarmament. America with her
great wealth and resources could easily sur-
pass England in shipbuilding if she wished
since England at the present time is in poor
economic condition, A result of the confer-
ences between premier McDonald and Presi-
dent Hoover was the establishment of a five
power conference to be held in London dur-
ing the month of January. Italy and’ Japan
. have indicated that they will be represented
at the conference but France has not yet
decided as to whether she will send repre-
sentatives or not. It is hoped by the great
majority of citizens of all’ of the tountries
represented that some vital steps towards
world peace will be made at this time.

The Prime Minister in his radio speech
in New York City some weeks ago asked
the. American people to be patient with Eng-
land in limiting her navy which is the very
life blood of her trade. He said that America
must wait until the English people have
replaced the old furniture of their. minds
with new furniture. They must put away
the old belief that England must be supreme
upon the seas. The Prime Minister stated
that this process of replacing the old furni-
ture of large armaments for the new furni-
ture of limited armaments would be a very
slow and gradual process.

At the end of Doctor McConnell’s talk
there was a discussion of the general topic of
world peace in which many of the members
took part.

The next meeting-of the. International Re-
lations Club will be on November the eighth.
The major part of the program will be
given over to a debate: “Resolved that the
United States Should Become a Member of
the World Court.”

jungle): “This reminds me, I forgot to
put the cat out before I left.”

Tell me, said the girl flyer as she pre-
pared to hop from the plane, is my para-
chute on straight?

Singer: “And for Bonnie Annie Laurie
I'd lay me down and die!”

Listener (rising) : “Is Miss Annie Laurie
in the audience?”

Teacher: “What did Juliet say when
she met Romeo in the balcony?”

Pupil: “Couldn’t you get seats in the
orchestra?”

DAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AA

STUDENTS,
ATTENTION!

For self-supporting students de-
siring fascinating, remunerative
work either temporary or perma-
nent, may I suggest that many stu-
dents of both sexes have earned
\scholarships and cash sufficient to
defray all college expenses, repre-

senting national magazine publish-

ers. If interested, write or wire for
details—M. A. Steele, National Or-
ganizer, 5 Columbus Circle, New
York, N. Y.

y

New Yell Tried At
Last “Pep” Meeting

‘A very spirited “pep” meeting was held
last Friday night. Professor Wood made a
splendid talk on how much the full support
of the students means to the team on the
field, Coach “Monk” Younger also made a
short talk along the same line. Captain
Brock, at a request from Ned Heefner, said
a few words, assuring everyone that the
team would do its best.

A new yell, suggested by Norman Raies,
of Mt Hope, West Virginia, was introduced
with very good effect. This is one of the
University of West Virginia’s most popular
yells, It was originated by Bill Thompson,
for three years cheer leader of that insti-
tution, who is also from Mt. Hope. The yell
is as follows:

FIGHT—WILDCATS—FIGHT
FIGHT—WILDCATS—FIGHT
FIGHT FIGHT—FIGHT FIGHT FIGHT
FIGHT—WILDCATS—FIGHT!
~ Acqording to Heefner, this yell is different
from those now in use. It will be used for

the first time at the game on Homecoming
Day.

Several Changes in
Concert Orchestra

Eighteen men reported at the first meeting
of the Davidson Concert Orchestra on Mon-
day, October 14. At this time plans were
made for the coming season and. several
changes were made in order to produce an
orchestra that is well, rounded. The Jazz
orchestra has been combined with the Col-
lege Symphony Orchestra, and the name
changed to “The Davidson Concert Orches-
tra.” There were several vacancies in the
Symphony which the Jazz band helped to
fill. There is still a need for a ‘cello, viola,
oboe, and bass viol. Students who play any
of these instruments are urged to see Pro-
fessor Cullum who is head of the Music
Department.

The Jazz orchestra will operate as a sepa-
rate unit whenever there is a call for this
particular line of work. The Concert orches-
tra is modeled after the modern radio con-
cert orchestra, a compact organization that
is used to play all classes of music.

The Music Department has ordered a com-
plete library of new orchestrations in order
that a new program may be presented from
beginning to end.

SAD STORY
(Shakesperean Style)

Sam sits sequestered, sensing’ situation.
Susie, sauntering somewhere, sneezes.
Sam starts.

“°S you, Susie?” Sam stutters.

“Sure, ’sme, Sam!” she simpers.

Susie seats self, snuggles ’side Sam.

“Smatter, Sam?” says Susie saucily.

“Sucide seems sensible!” Sam_ sighs
sadly, @

“Siamese snakes!” screams Susie.

“"S fact,” Sam says sturdily.

“Such singularly stupid: sinfulness,”
sneers Susie sulkily. “Shame, Sam!”

“Silence!” Sam sounds stentorian.

Secondary stillness. Softly, slowly,
strangely Sam speaks.

“See, Susie!’ Sam’s six-shooter shines
suddenly, spurts smoke. Sam staggers,
sinks.

Susie shrieks shrilly. She seeks Sam’s
side, sobbing softly.

“Sam, such silliness!” she sighs sadly.
“Some ’scuse, surely?”

“Situation’s so, Susie,’ Sam stammers,
suffocating. “Since solons ’strict student’s
schedules, sole subjects secured seem
sociology, Semitics, Sanskrit, Slavic, sev-
eral sciences, Spencer, Shakespeare, Shel-
ley, sketching, ’stronomy, ’sychology,
some studies! Such simple, slight study
sounds sluggish—scarcely sufferable, sure-
ly! So, Susie, suicide seems sensible.
S’ long!”

Sam’s soul, sorrow-seared, seeks skies,
Susie stands stricken. Suddenly’ she
snatches stilletto, stabs self. Stumbling,
she slumps ’side still Sam.

Sempiternal silence suffuses scene.

—Selected.

Big Five Results
TEAM WON LOST
Carolina __________ 1 0
N. C. State __..__- 1 0
Wake Forest ______ 1 2
Davidson __._______ 0 1
WOKS) 2 ecce as 0 0

Plans For Banner Year

Formed by S. C. Group

All students from South Carolina are
especially requested to be present at the
meeting of the South Carolina. Club in
Eu Hall on Wednesday, November 6th. at
nine o’clock. An interesting program is
being arranged by D. C. Hunter, presi-
dent of the. club, and L. A. Mills, secre-
tary and treasurer.

The South Carolina €lub, an organiza-
tion of the students from the Palmetto
gtate, has as its object two aims, namely,
the drawing of the South Carolinans at
Davidson into closer fellowship, and the
discussion of problems which confront
South Carolina. The club intends to func-
tion as a real live wire organization.

Fewer freshmen have registered this
year from South Carolina than at any
time within recent years. In fact there are
only nine freshmen from that state. There
are, however, forty-four upper classmen
and seven faculty members to swell the
group from our sister state. Capt. J. W.
Elkins, Prof. E. A. Beaty, Dr. C. H. Rich-
ards, Dr. J. L. Douglas, Dr. J. M. Doug-
las, Dr. J. M. McConnell, and Dr. J. W.
MacConnell of the faculty are all from
South Carolina.

It is a source of great pride to all Da-
vidson men, most especially those “from
South Carolina, that two of the colleges
of the Palmetto state are headed by Da-
vidson men born in South Carolina. These
men are: Rev. John McSween, president
of the Presbyterian College of South
Carolina, and Dr. D. M. Douglas, presi-
dent of the University of South Carolina.

Band to Perform
At State Contest

For the first time in the past several
years the Davidson College band will ac-
company the football squad on trips to
three gridiron contests away from home.
In addition to the journeys to Charlotte
for the game with Clemson and to Greens-
boro for the Wake Forest battle, the band
is making definite plans to accompany
the Wildcats to Raleigh to cheer them on
and provide pep and enthusiasm during
the struggle with State.

According to C. C. Orr, leader of the
band, the group is planning to put on
several novelty stunts at the State game,

November 9. These will be in the nature |

of the forming of a “D” and an “S” and
drill in novel formations. As in the past
the band will parade between the halves
and provide music during the game.

The personnel of the organization con-
sists of thirty-three musicians, all of
whom plan to attend the game.

Freshie: “Which end of the car muse
I get off?”
‘Conductor: “Take your choice, lady ;

both ends stop!”

Today is the tomorrow I was worrying
about yesterday.

The motto of our dining-room: “Re-
mains to be Seen!”

Our dining-room motto:
be seen!”

“Remains to

“T never knew raindrops could smoke.”

“Well, it so happens, they can’t.”

“That’s funny; only a few minutes ago
I saw them in hail.”

All the world loves a lover, except his
roominate.

DAVIDSON FIVE AND TEN YEARS AGO

FIVE YEARS BACK

(Taken from Davidson ¥. from issue
of October 30, 1924.)

“Trotting out upon the field at Columbia
last Wednesday at noon, with a string of five
victories behind them, the Davidson Wild-
cats viewed a ton of weight that would be
pitted against them and despite the fact that
the Wildcats lost the game 6 to 0, this great
difference in weight did not damper their
fighting spirit. It was this weight, however,
that was the final cause of the score, for had
not the Furman team been so hefty they
would have been unable to break through the
line, block the punt, and then pick up the
ball and run for a touchdown.

“The races at the Charlotte speedway nine
miles south of Gharlotte drew its quota of
Davidson men last Saturday. Many got ex-
cuses and left Friday night or early Saturday
morning. Every conceivable means of travel
was pressed into service. At the end of prac-
tically every period the boys whose classes
were over for the day, got out on the road
and started on their journey.

“Not since October, 1916, has a Davidson
eleven placed the Red and Black above the
Red and White of N. C. State and that was
the only year that Monk Younger ever
played for Davidson.

“The organized prayer groups among the
students are meeting every morning. Each
dormitory has one or more groups composed
of about five men each. 4 regular course of
Bible study is being carried on in several of
these meetings. There dare about seventeen

«| groups in all, meeting at about 7 :40. On Sat-

urday morning a union meeting is held in
Doctor Shewmake’s classroom over the

“This afternoon the Davidson squad left
to meet N. C. State, a team that outweighs
the Wildcats 22 pounds to the man in the
line and 10 pounds in the backfield.”

TEN YEARS BACK

(Taken from the Davidsonian files, from
issue of October 29, 1919.)

“A blinding flash! A loud report! And it
was over. The men who were able to do so
slowly wound their dreary way toward their
rooms and rest, sweet rest. For McIlwaine
performed a flashlight operation on the as-
sembled body of Davidson reporters and fu-
ture members of the news-gatherers gang
and thus ended the feed given by the Report-
ers Club to the freshmen who have written
for the livingest wire on the hill.

“The center of football interest in the
South during the week is turned to the
Georgia-Tech-Davidson game. The fur will
fly and the dust will rise when the Golden
Tornado and Wildcats clash on Grant field
next Saturday. One of the hardest fought
games of the season is anticipated.

“Q you Georgia! Get in there Watts! Just
such yells as this will be heard issuing from
the gymn Friday night after the movies when
Georgia and Watts hook up for the final
game. You can bet your last.dollar that this
is going to be some scrap, for it is the
championship game of the inter-dormitory
basketball series. Neither’ team has lost a
game, so you know that ‘both of them will
be there with plenty of war paint.

“Can the Davidson fellows drill? Well,
you should have seen them last’ Saturday.
A and B companies, marching in column of
platoons to the strains of martial music from
Davidson’s new band, swung past the review-
ing stand with lines as straight as arrows.
Davidson’s band made its debut on the pa-
rade ground, and the R. O. T. C. paraded
for the first time this year.”

STETSON
$29.50

We are here to

R. B.

Opposite Campus

that are made to your individual
measurements. We guarantee our garments.
Come in and let us convince you what
values we have to offer.

Very truly yours,

“D” STORE
$34.50

serve you. Clothes

HARRISON, Manager

+

&

Siati

108

Pe atee and embossed

Best Quality and Prices

ANY TYPE OF PRINTING }
Earnest H. McCall

Reprerentitg

Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

On © Tl

Watts

>
