wer | THE DAVIDSONIAN | zz:
DRIVE ’EM 2 gil WO
“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”
Vol. XVII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 17, 1929

No. 5

R.0.T.C. Training May
Be Abolished in School
By: Presbyterian Synod

Dr. Lingle, President of the College,
Withholds Personal Views
Regarding the Matter

COMMITTEE SELECTED

Trustees and Committee of Synod
to Debate Matter

The Presbyterian Synod of North Carolina
has appointed a committee to confer with
Davidson College Trustees regarding the ad-
visability of taking steps to abolish R. O.
T. C. in the college. The following state-
ment, embracing his knowledge of the mat-
ter, was issued by President Walter L. Lin-
gle of Davidson College.

“I Jeft Rocky Mount, where the Synod
was in session, for Richmond before this
discussion on the R. O. T. C. came up, so
I have no personal knowledge of what was
said or done. I see in the newspapers that
the Synod appointed a committee to advise
with the Trustees on this question. As David-
son College belongs to the Presbyterians of
North Carolina I think that it is perfectly
proper for the Synod to appoint a Committee
to confer with us on any phase of our work
here.

“Inasmuch as such a Committee has been
appointed, I think that the friends of the col-
fege will recognize at once that the proper
tine for me to express any opinions that I
may now have, or may form, on this sub-
ject will be when the Trustees and the
Synod’s Committee meet to study the ques-
tion. I have not seen any report as to the
number or the personnel of this Committee.”

The agitation of this question is 6f na-
tional scope, and especially in schools of
Christian character. In colleges where mili-
tary training is a compulsory part of the
curriculum, the college authorities are con-
stantly harasgec” with the problem of ‘as-
signing classes in military tactics to stu-
dents who come from homes where a know-

ledge of militarism is deemed. unessential,

and even objecttonable.

It cannot be said, however, that the move-
ment has been given impetus so largely, by
college officials. On the contrary, people
unconnected with the educational institutions
except as relations to students have led the
agitation against the R. O. T. C.

The movement on foot will be given sup-
port by peace agitators whose exhortations
are widely promulgated throughout the land.
The question is to be debated by the Com-
mittee of the Synod and the Trustees of the
College at a future meeting.

Augustus Leazer, ’11, has been appoint-
ed operations manager of the new Curtiss
Flying Service airport in Raleigh. Since
leaving Davidson several months ago Mr.
Leazer has been chief, pilot and chief in-
structor of the flying school.

Eleven Freshmen
Out For | Manager

Eleven freshmen have reported to Ernest
McCall, Business Manager of the Davidson-
ian, for work on the paper. These men are
in line for a position as Solicitor in their
sophomore year, swhich will authorize them
to seek advertisers. Their most important
task in the first year, however, is the send-
ing of subscription copies to outsiders.

The freshmen who have reported to the
Business Manager are: Parks, Mebane,
Brown P., Guerrant, Caldwell, McConnell,
Daniel, Falls, Morrow, Manson, and
Whitted. Members who retain positions on
the present staff are: E. H. McCall, Busi-
ness Manager, J. A. Cannon, Assistant, L.
L. Boyd, Subscription Manager, and the fol-
lowing Solicitors: A. J. Baker, P. M. Con-
way, J. H. McKinnon, J. O. Mann, J. E.
Russ, and J. L. Sevier.

W. H. Neal, 717, former cashier of the
Charlotte National Bank, is now located
in Winston-Salem, where he is one of the
vice-presidents of the Wachovia’ Bank
and Trust Company.

Team Entertained
at Alumni Banquet

One of the high spots of the recent trip of
Davidson College’s football team was the
informal dinner given by Dr. A. B. Reese,
alumnus of this institution, who entertained
in honor of the Wildcats, who that day had
staged a. battle against obstacles that was
comforting to the several hundred former
students of the college in attendance. The
dinner was given at the University club, cor-
ner of Fifty-fourth St. and Fifth Avenue.

The team, escorted by police all the way
from West Point to the club, arrived about
8:30 p. m., and the dinner started a_half-
hour later. No set program had been ar-
ranged, but when Dr. Reese, presiding, threw
the meeting open for any remarks that
wanted to be voluntarily made, three of the
guests present responded with brief talks.

Capt. Thad Brock extended his apprecia-
tion, on behalf of the entire team, to Dr.
Reese for so honoring them. W. P. Ander-
son, ’07, as president of the New York Alum-
ni Association, voiced an appreciation on
behalf of all Davidson’alumni in New York
for the splendid fight that the Davidson team
had made at West Point that afternoon, and
likewise thanked Dr. Reese for entertaining
the boys. Capt. Norton G. Pritchett, David-
son’s director of athletics, spoke for a few
minutes, officially representing the college
in giving expression to his appreciation of
Dr. Reese’s courtesy. °

At the conclusion of the dinner, Dr. Reese

presented an entertainer from New York, |
who held the attention of the crowd for an[

hour or more, performing many kinds of
tricks, the solution of which was not discerni-
ble to any of those at the dinner.

In addition to the team, the two coaches
and the four managers, others attending were
J. A. Cannon, 04, Concord; Dr. Oren Moore,
08, Charlotte; Lawrence Wilkinson, 713,

(Continued on Page 7)

Henderlite Defines
“A Man” at Vespers

Dr. J. H. Henderlite, pastor of the First
Presbyterian Church of Gastonia, delivered
a very interesting and profitable talk to the
students at the regular Sunday evening Ves-
per Service, October 13. Dr. Henderlite is
head of the Stewardship Committee of the
Presbyterian Synod of North Carolina, and

is on the committee appointed to formulate

plans for the erection of the new Presby-
terian Church at Davidson.

The speaker based his talk upon the words
of the first verse of the fifth chapter of Jere
miah: “Run ye to and fro through the streets
of Jerusalem, and see now, and know, and
seek in the broad places thereof, if ye can
find a man, if there be any that executeth
judgment, that seeketh the truth; and I will
pardon it.” Following are some of the help-
ful thoughts brought out by Dr. Henderlite:

“The Lord told Jeremiah to go out in the
streets of Jerusalem and look for a man who
was real and true enough to know the right-
eousness of God, and one who loved God to
such an extent, so that Jerusalem could be
saved from destruction. What are the marks
by which you can recognize a real man? The
first consideration is whether or not a man
has a Clear conscience. If a man has his
conscience well regulated and in tune with
the heart of God, then he is safe and is right
with God. It makes a great deal of differ-
ence whether you are doing right in your
life. When all things are running together,
honesty is always the best policy. A man
who will follow his conscience will always
be right with God. Follow your ‘conscience
if you want to bea true man. An honest man
is the noblest work of God.

“The second consideration when you go
out to look for a real man is whether or not
he has a heart. By this we mean warm feel-
ings and strong affections. A man without
a heart is incomplete. When Jesus looked
upon the needy multitude, He was filled
with compassion. A man has a heart if he
has love for his home—love for his family
and his friends.

“Another thing one must think of in his
search for a man is whether or not he has
a mind. A real man is going to use his mind

(Continued on Page 7)

Dr. Sam Glasgow

Knoxville Pastor who will conduct the
fall series of evangelistic talks

Prominent Pastor Will
Conduct Fall Y.M.C.A

Evangelistic Work Here

Dr. Glasgow Rated by “Who’s Who
in America” as a Leading
Minister

CONFERENCE LEADER

Has Written Several Well-Known
Books

e

In choosing a man to conduct the Fall
evangelistic services the Y. M. C.-A. officials
tried to obtain one whose personality, char-
acter, and achievements’ would appeal espec-
ially to college men.

They happily found the man whom they
sought in the person of Dr. Samuel M.
Glasgow, brother of Mr, Tom Glasgow, of
Charlotte, well known to Davidson men.
Dr. Glasgow has held as his pastorate for
several years past the First Presbyterian
Church, Knoxville, Tennessee, the oldest and
one of the largest churches in that city.

Dr. Glasgow has always held young people
as his chief interest. He has for several years
been the leading spirit of the North Carolina
young people’s conference held on the David-
son campus each June which is attended by
five hundred boys and girls of the prepara-
tory from all over the state.

“Who's Who in America” rates Dr. Glas-
gow among its list of the foremost ministers
of the United States. From that publication
we find that he is an author of note, having
written on a wide range of subjects. He con-
tributes the program for the Young “People’s
Societies in the Christian Observer each
week and is a prolific writer for all the
church publications. He has also written
many hymns and poems.

Dr. Glasgow is a graduate of Washington
and Lee, at which institution he was a mem-
ber of the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity.
He attended Union Theological Seminary
where he received the distinction of being
the Hogue Fellow. His ministry opened on
the Mexican border where he was a mis-
sionary for four years. From there he ac-
cepted a place on the teaching force of the
Austin seminary. Later he became pastor
of the Breams memorial church of Char-
leston, W. Va., from whence he moved to
Knoxville, where he has been for the past
nine years.

This is the first time during service there
that the session has granted him leave of
abscence during the rush season of early
fall. The session of that church believed
Davidson to be such a rich field of service
that it readily granted him permission to
hold the fall services.

C. M. Robinson, ’10, of Lowell; Fred L.
Smyre, 1900, of Gastonia, and Chas. A.
Cannon, of Concord, are vice-presidents
of the Gaston County Textile Manufac-
turers Association. Mr. Cannon is also
third vice-president of the North Caro-
lina Association of Cotton Manufacturers.

Y.M.C.A. Plans Big
Party F or W eek End

As the time draws near for the big
Citadel party, which is to be held this
week-end, more and more forms of en-
tertainment are being planned for the
students and visitors by the committee in
charge of the program. This committee,
headed by W. B. McGavock, has arranged
a program, in conjunction with the Red
and Black Masquers, the Queens College
Glee Club, and the Davidson Y. M. C. A,,
which will occupy every moment during
the entire week-end. From the plans al-
ready arranged this promises to be the
biggest social event of the entire fall,
with, perhaps, the exception of Home-
Coming.

Saturday afternoon the Davidson-Cita-
del football game starts the week-end off.
The game, which is to be played on
Richardson Field, promises to be one of
the best of the season. During the game
the bands of the two schools will play.

| Between halves ‘one hundred cadets will

give an exhibition of the way they drill at
the Citadel,

The entertainment of the evening begins
at 7:15 and will be held in the auditorium
of Chambers. First, comes a one act play,
“Copy,” presented by the Red and. Black
Masquers. This is a “peppy” story of news
paper life in which a hard-boiled editor ex-
hibits the stuff that newspaper men are
made of. t

Next on the program for the evening’ comes
a recital by the Queens College Glee Club.
The club contains about forty beautiful mem-
bers, and the concert promises to be exceed-
ingly good. The Glee Club features Miss
Martha Dulin in a number of vocal select-
ions.

Following the entertainment in the audi

» (Continued on page 8)

Trousers Donated .
to Davidson Band

Ask any man which part of his wearing
apparel he can least do without and he will
mention that part of his wearing apparel
from his waist down—Pants.

The most aggressive and heroic of men are
handicapped without pants. If you want to
test this statement try going to a social
function without them, A man would become
a social outcast before he got in the front
door.

The College Band has had no pants in the
past, although they have had striking +head-
gear and shirts. Their handicap has been
great. Their mortification has been intense
when they have played at football games
before the “Queens” and other fair specta-
tors. The situation has affected the music,
it has affected the marching, and, most of
all, the noticeable lack of proper wearing
apparel has affected their peace of mind,

Now this has all been changed. A good
friend of Davidson saw the need at the
Clemson-Davidson game and, being a modest
man himself, he felt for the band. When he
arrived within reach of his trusty check book
after the game he immediately wrote out a
perfectly good piece of negotiable paper
which directed that his bank pay to the Col-
lege Band the amount of two hundred dol-
lars. The only “string” to the gift was that
his name be withheld—another instance of
his modesty.

Arrangements are being made for having
the trousers arrive in time for Home-Cotn-
ing Day. According to information at hand,
these trousers will be black with a broad red
strip down the leg. The appearance of the
band will be greatly improved with this added
equipment and it will no longer be necessary
for our band to sit in the stands while visit-
ing bands parade the field between halves in
full regalia. Such a condition has existed in
the past on several occasions, our band feel-
ing that their showing in the field, due to,a
lack of proper uniforms, would not be credit-
able. The last donation, with the money
raised py the faculty and student body, com-
pleted the band uniform with the exception
of the purchase of coats. For the present, at
least, this item of uniform will be eliminated.

Because of the desire of the donor of the

(Continued on page 8)

Davidson College Church
Approved by N.C. Synod
At Its Recent Session

Committee, Headed by Dr. Raynal,
Reports Present Build'ng Al-
together Inadequate

COMMITTEE FORMED

Estimated Cost, Two Hundred and
Fifty Thousand Dollars

The Synod of North Carolina, in’ session
at Rocky Mount last week, after hearing a
report by Dr. C. E. Raynal of Statesville,
chairman of a committee appointed to in-
vestigate the church conditions at Davidson,
adopted without a dissenting voice the report
of the committee which advised a new church
for Davidson.

A year ago, the Synod appointed a com-
mittee, of which Dr. C. E. Raynal was chair-
man, to study the church problem at David-
son, and to advise what should be done. At
the meeting of the Synod last week, this
committee made a splendid. report, and re-
commended that a committee be appointed to
take “up the whole question of raising funds
and erecting a new church. The Synod re-
quested that the committee work in co-oper
ation with the session of the local church and
the factulty of the college.

Dr. Raynal’s committee reported, in part,
that the present church was inadequate in
heating and ventilation system, was
incomfortable, and was entirely out of keep-

size,

ihg with the other architectural surroundings.
Reaching the conclusion that the church was
the most inadequate building on the campus,
the committee further recommended that the
new building be “substantial and beautiful ;
that it be in keeping with new Davidson
architectural standards; and that its auditor
ium and Sunday School equipment be ade
quate.”

While no figures plans
adopted yet, and probably will not be for a
considerable time, it is estimated that ap-
proximately $250,000 will be expended in
building the new church.

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, President of David-
son College, is heartily in favor of the move-
men, In viging his personal feelings, he says :
“Tam in hearty sympathy with the movement
to build a new church at. Davidson. I think
it would mean much to the students and the
faculty. | am deeply interested in all that con-
cerns the spiritual interests of both groups.

and have been

It takes only a glance at the present church
and its inadequacy to show that. it is highly
desirable that we should build a new one.”

The committee appointed to have charge
of raising funds, ete., in building the church,
cousists of the following : Rey. C. FE. Raynal,
Statesville; A. S. Johnson, Charlotte; D.
Clay Lilly, Winston-Salem; J. H. Hender-
lite, Gastonia; and Elders R. A. Dunn, Char-
lotte; C. M. Norfleet, Winston-Salem; C. A.
Lee Robinson, Gas

Cannon, Concord; J.

(Continued on page 8)

Honorary Frats Bid.
On November First

The first day of November
Bid Day for the honorary fraternities of the
campus by the Honorary Fraternity Council
at a meeting last Tuesday, according to E.
H. McCall, president of the council.

This is a much later date than last year
when it was held October 11. This however,
is due to the fact that several of the frater-
nities have not held their first meetings of
the year yet, and have made no plans for the

was set as

year’s work.

Those honorary fraternities who will ex-
tend bids November 1 are: Alpha Phi Ep-
silom, oratory and debating; Omega Phi
Alpha, philosophical and __ psychological ;
Gamma Sigma Epsilom, chemical; Sigma
Upsilom, literary; International Relations
Club, national organization; Scabbard and
Blade, military; Delta Pi Kappa, journal-
istic; Sigma Pi Sigma, physics; Biology
Club; Eta Sigma Phi, classical literature ;
Mu Beta Psi, musical Sigma Delta Psi,
athletic. The Tap Day of Omicron Delta
Kappa, a fraternity recognizing leadership,
will probably be set at another date.
