N

THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 65, 1929

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
isgiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina,

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

ZEB_V. LONG, Jr... ..---- sejsscedacunccuueeee Editor-in-Chief
H. McCALI

io]

Qe B. BUAGR ae isis Managing Editor
J. W. McCUTCHAN.. i i
W. C. RAGIN -....... i
P. R. ALDERMAN....--.
J. F. PRESTON Feature Editor
BROW NG neat pesssssssovesucausou ch seuas Feature Editor
R. F. JARRATT. -Associate Editor
BSD MI Revskss Scuuctscss hub geo cee Associate Editor
C. M. PRATT--... Associate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
J) - AIGANNONGES 2 oie eee Asst. Bus. Mgr.
L. L. BOYD... -Subscription Mgr.
a J. BAKER... ~-------...--Solicitor
teats CONWAY decduncse Si aiguuel s smiban mere aan Aeey Solicitor
J. H. -Solicitor
} gi cane ncenebisiss ayer
Bs --Solicitor
Jie SEV LE Riciecu cause sec cane slg ie aes Solicitor
E. Ss i
sie SAay RUN IY RY suck uouou cae coae Lis cddbublclescuaeeas President
W. C. RAG Vice-President
ovis D. MIDDLETON ._...__.__-_.-.-_. Sccretary- Treasurer
J. G. BERRY C. G. PEPPER
. C. MATTHEWS J. G. DUNKLIN
p o Py fe W.S. LE
- RS C. W. F. S
D. 0. STEPHENSON W. T. HANCOCK
A. H. WHITEHEAD JOHN M. BROWN
RF “A NORTON G. P. PARDINGTON
N. Bi, DICKS MATTHEWS, W. H

BIRD, A. R.

DECEMBER 5, 1929

THE VOICE OF THE CAMPUS

It’s hard to find anything but football to talk
about these days. Seldom has Davidson been so
stirred as by that smashing, thrilling, dope-scatter-
ing victory over Duke’s Blue Devils. That game
was a tonic to the entire college and all its con-
nections.

All history is not made in the halls of Congress.
That fact was shown in amazing fashion by Cap-
tain Brock as he streaked down Richardson Field
on his 102 yard dash. Brock is All-Southern ma-

terial if any exists at all.

Davidson extends her appreciation to her fight-
ing football team—a squad with spirit unequaled
and unchallenged. sae

Now is the time to study. Those low grades must

come up, and the task is one for the individual
alone.

The new social center room in Phi Hall is a
wonderful place for student gatherings. Why not
go down and get that old feeling of “Hail, Fellow,
Well Met”?

Remember that real enjoyment of Christmas will
be enhanced by a feeling’ of college duties well
done. Bear down.

FRESHMAN SEATING

It seems to us that a very good improve-
ment could be made with regard to the pres-
ent seating restriction of the freshmen in
chapel. For years it has been the custom for
the first year men to keep their seats until
all upper classmen have cleared the room.
This rule has been followed with varying
degrees of attention. ‘

When chapel services were held in old
Shearer Hall, the inconvenience of the seat-
ing and the lack of space made it advisable
to require the freshmen to retain their seats
for a few minutes. Much disorder was.
avoided in this way. Now, however, no such
restriction of space is evident, the new au-
ditorium affording ample room for the effi-
cient conduction of chapel. The rule remains
in force merely as a measure designed to
place restriction upon the new men, and its
practical value is to be questioned.

During the present year, there has been
a very noticeable tendency on the part of the
freshmen to begin leaving before the upper
classmen are even well on their way. In this
respect, the rule is not strictly enforced. Ey-
ery morning, there are numerous meetings
of classes or of clubs which are hampered
by waiting for the freshmen to leave. Often
the familiar shouts of “Out frosh” resound
through the hall, and nearly every day there
is a useless uproar in connection with the
freshman exodus.

Just to bring about a little more order and
to, facilitate the conduction of the business
matters which always follow chapel proper,
we would suggest that the new men be
allowed to arise and depart along with the
rest of the student body. If the need of some
restriction is still felt, then let them be re-
quired to pass out the north ‘aisle, leaving
the hall by means of the double door direct-
ly behind the freshman section. Such a pro-
vision as the latter would retard the move-

ke

Y. M. C. A. DEPUTATIONS

The Y. M. C. A. at Davidson College has
always played an important part in the lives
of students here, some of the evidences ‘of
which are more tangible than others. By
sponsoring the Vesper service and various
evangelical services, the “Y” has become a
vital element in the makeup of Davidson
and all its many phases. More and more the
student body as a whole is realizing this fact
and contributing in different ways to the
advancement of this organization on. the
campus and in neighboring communities,

One phase of the local “Y” that is more
recent in nature and which bids fair to be
one of its outstanding features is that one
embodied in student deputations. This de-
partment has been in existence for quite
a while and has not failed to render much
active and well-directed service here and in
adjoining towns and cities, but only in the
past few years have leaders in this realized
the vast field that lies open for work of such
a nature. As this fact has become more and
more in evidence, steps have accordingly
been taken to develop this branch and give
it a place of equal or greater rank among
the other activities of the “Y.”

Students have really made the “Y” here
the Davidson College Y. M. C. A. The great
majority of the student body will have
taken some active part in this kind of work
when they finish at Davidson; this may have
been in Vesper services, Chapel exercises,
or many other similar activities. Klowever,
even with such a development of the student
element in this organization, there is room
left for furthering this and making it very
sasy for each and every man in the student
body to benefit from such a service, and this
possibility lies in the progress of student
deputations.

The opportunity for service in this field is
open to all because of the varied nature of
different deputations, Scarcely ever will a
week pass that at least one deputation will
not go out, offering a chance for several
boys to work in young people’s meetings,
church services, musical programs or some

form meeting similar to these, and if these

chances are taken advantage of a mutual
benefit will be reaped by all that will not be
forgotten in a long time.

Davidson offers to all a wonderful chance
fot mental, physical, social and moral better-
ment, with sufficient, stress laid on all, but
there is a tendency to take advantage of the
first three before earnestly considering
what we have done for our moral uplifting.
A well-rounded education will embrace ‘all
four of these elements, but to take advan-
tage of the opportunity to develop only
some of them will sometimes be a deep re-
gret in the lives of all who do this. In con-
sidering and attending the advancement of
deputations to a place of importance here at
Davidson, the Y. M. C. A. is doing some-
thing which, with the co-operation of the
students, has unlimited and unforseen pos-
sibilities of the greatest importance. Let’s
back the “Y” upand make these deputations
something to be doing now and something
to always remember as one of our most-
cherished experiences at Davidson.

S P. R. Alderman.
STUDENT EMPLOYMENT

“T have never known a time when so
many students were faced with the neces-
sity of securing outside employment,” stated
H. E. Stone, dean of men at West Virginia,
Ohio, recently. “There is the danger that
students will work too many hours and neg-
lect their scholastic work, so I am urging
every new student who can do so ta wait at
least mid-semester grades are received be-
fore attempting to work.”

A large number of letters and personal
appeals for help from students seeking part-
time employment were received by Dean
Stone during the summer. As a result he
enlisted the co-operation of the Rotary, Ki-
wanis and Lions ‘clubs of Morganton and
made use of the local newspapers in an
appeal to local “merchants, manufacturers
and householders” to make use of college
men and thereby prevent the necessity of
worthy young men withdrawing from the
University.

“It is poor economy to earn a few dollars
each week if by so doing it results in
scholastic failure,” Dean Stone continued.
“On the other hand the exceptionally able
student can generally assist himself finan-
cially if he does not participate in too many
outside activities or devote, too much time
to social life.”—Exchange.

) ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeEeEeE————————— ee
—————— Eee TTS

ment of the body enough to prevent a stam-
pede and consequent obstruction of the exit
of the older men. At any rate, the hall could
be cleared much more quickly and all busi-
ness of students concluded with much more
dispatch and convenience.

!
|
|
|
|

Cosmic Chaos |
J. W. McCutchan

4

Several years ago, speaking from the standpoint

of the average student, Theodore Roosevelt took
an active part in diplomatic discussions between
Japan and Russia. Last week China turned in its
distress to the only country which she feels that
she can trust, the United States of America. With
the active advance of Soviet troops, the Eastern
Republic sent an urgent note requesting that in-
stant measures be taken to dissuade Communist
activity. In answer our nation has appead to 53
countries to join in a declaration of peace. World
Peace is one of the most-to-be-desired estates.
Yet few men to-day possess the activity, the initia-
tive, and the personality of a Roosevelt. Let the
United States act with caution.

There are many who are mourned at their
death by the funeral services of a-Foch, a
Good, or a Clemenceau. There are many more,
and these constitute a majority, who die as a
matter of course in their regular line of duty.
Captain Alexander T. Young, master of a Great
Lakes freighter, was the last. He perished in
the attempt to save four members of his crew.
Few trains wreck to have their detritis sur-
veyed by the man who wasat the throttle. And
there have been men, they are not found in his-
tories, who have worked themselves to their
graves—for sons and daughters.

The following paragraph is not printed as news;
it is in the nature of congratulating a noble
achievement. Commander Richard Evelyn Byrd
was the first man to fly across the North Polar
Axis of the World. Very recently he crossed the
South Pole, likewise in a heavier than air machine.
He is to be placed, along the side of Peary and
Greeley, among the list of the great explorers of
the World. (He is from Virginia.) Only two ad-
venturers have seen both poles; Byrd is one of
them. The other was the gallant Roald Amundsen,
whom it will be recalled vanished in quest of the
ill-fated Nobile expedition.

Many students have doubtless remarked on

the peculiarity of an empty flag-pole on the
campus, if a flag-pole can be called empty.
Allegations are not made at the feet of any
particular department. It is better to have no
flag than to have one which is: not treated
strictly in accord with the proper courtesies
due it. Still, the flag-pole remains. In remem-
brance, or in hope? No one ever saw a totem
pole without a totem. Seriously, however, few
things inspire a more reverent feeling for one’s
country than to see its flag raised and lowered
with respectful ceremony.
Some wise man once said that the weather
served as a universal topic of discussion because
it was one topic which seldom raised a rucus.
Slickers, stiff as a board, and top-coats express
themselves ably. That famous mouse, deeply plot-
ted against in the neighboring column, will, no
doubt in the course of time, become inured to an
Arctic climate, sans radiators.

One will recall “Brotherly Love” in connec-
tion with the announcement that Sing Sing in-
mates have petitioned a post of the American
Legion. There are over three hundred ex-
sailors, soldiers, and marines
known prison. There are points both pro and
con. Assuredly those who fought through the
Meuse-Argonne and Chateau-Thierry should

in this well-

OPEN FORUM

The purpose of this is more to congratulate Mr.
Wharton on his perspicacious plan, by means of
which the falacy of the existing method of cuts
might be remedied.. The present system is an old
one and not well adapted to the needs of modern
college students, for it does not give the students
enough freedom. University methods prescribe
a certain number of cuts for each class. These cuts
do not continue from one semester to the other.

I would like to suggest a plan whereby. each
student would be allowed three: cuts from each
class, and from chapel and church. More than
three cuts would make the student liable for ex-

-pulsion from that class, subject to the will of the

professor. More than three cuts from church or
chapel, then, would put the student on probation,
or campus, or suspension, subject to the will of' the
Absence Committee. I do not admit that three
cuts from any class would greatly impair the stu-
dents’ capacity for passing their work. Nor do I
believe that three cuts from chapel or church in
one semester would greatly undermine the student
life on the campus,

What do you think of the present cut system?
Have you any plan to remedy it? Let us hear from
a few others.

_R. E. Witt.

Smokehouse Saga
By W. C. Ragin
(Published Weakly)

a
st

Ho hum! We beat another Big Five team. And
with those few kind words was born the idea of
presenting a picture of an ideal football game to
the Student Body at large (and also to those who
have been captured). I apologize.

THE GALLOPING GUST
or
I’d simply die for deah ole Beef State

Well, folks, the Beef State warriors have just
come out on the field. The cheer leaders are pre-
paring to give three cheers and an overstuffed
setee for the big team. He it is:

Beef State, blah, blah,
Beef State, blah, blah,
Who blah? Who blah?
Beef State, blah, blah!

Now, the rangy grid iron heroes from old Moid-.
érsboig_are taking the field (and incidently, every-
thing else that isn’t bolted down or under heavy
guard). Listen to the corps roar out their choice

yell: -

Geef a yell, %
Geef a yell,

Geef a good substantial yell,

Izzy, Ikey Jakie, Sam,

Ve're de boys vot don’t eat ham,
Football, baseball, svimming in de tank,
Ve haf moneys, but ve keep it in de bank,
Moidersboig! Moidersboig! Moidersboig!

The referee called the two captains out into the
center of the flooded field (it was flooded by the
local fire department just to add interest to the
game) to choose goals. He flipped a two-bit piece
high into the air. For a moment it glistened in the
light and then was lost forever in the watery
depths of the field. Time was then called while
the field was bailed out. “Well, this won't work,”
said the referee taking the quarter out of the
pocket of the Moidersboig captain (he had had a
pocket put in his suit for just such an emergency),
“choose a color.” “Blue,” stated the captain of
Moidersboig. “Azure,” snapped the captain of
Beef State. “Wrotg,” said the referee, “indigo was
the color.” So he gave the decision to Moidersboig
just to show his school spirit.

Now, the two teams. are lined up at opposite ends
of the field, testing their water-wings, and champ-
ing their bits. The ball is kicked. A beauty! Moid-
ersboig was at last downed on the 35 yard line’
From there, a speedy back advanced the ball ten
yards by impersonating a whale and floating
placitdly around end. Moidersboig then gained fif-
teen more yards on a cold plunge.

However, the teams could not make enough
speed on the soggy field to satisfy the coaches.
Suddenly, time was called and both teams rowed
out on the field in racing sheels. From then on the
playing was fast and furious. But alas, the speedy
shell of deah old Beef State was broken in half
in the scrimmage. However, the Beef State cap-
tain, undaunted, stood up and said, “That’s all
right, boys. We'll win on the half shell.” At this,
the cheer leaders shouted, “Now, everybody fight!”
The crowd immediately took them at their word
and did so, but the militia stopped the riot in time.

From this point until the last five minutes of the
game, the ball zig-zagged up and down the field,
and the score remained 0-0 in favor of the com-
mon people. At last, good ole Beef State dropped
anchor on the 50 yard line and made their last de-
termined stand. In fact, they made the stand so
well that they were awarded first prize at the local
carpenter’s exhibit. On the first play, one of the
star half-backs disappeared and was found nearly
drowned under the murky depths where a Moid-
ersboig man had held him. He was pulled ashore
looking like something Fido found in the ash-
can, and Moidersboig was penalized half the depth
of the field. The teams lined up again. The ball was
snapped, the Beef State back heaved it, one of the
ends caught it, and naturally began ‘to run. He
reeled off ten, twenty, thirty yards and soon he
too began to reel. At last with a gasp, “For Beef
State and you!” he fell across the goal line and
sank in twenty fathoms of water.

On the next kick-off, the ball slipped from the
brawny arms of one of: the sons of old Moiders-
boig, and was lost in the jumble. (Yes, pard, it’s
awful to be lost in the jumble with all of those
wild animals hanging around). A week later, when
the field dried off, a Beef State player was found
lying on the ball across the goal line and clutch-
ing the emaciated carcasses of a couple of sea-
serpents in his arms, thus making the final touch-
down of the day.

And thus, my public, another gridiron classic
passed into Never-Never Land.

be entitled to what solace they can find in or-
ganized comradeship. How many of these
“veteran” criminals were forced out of employ-
ment by “wheat-grab ” and other profiteers
who sucked the little man dry during and after
the War?
