THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 7, 1929

Np

BROHARD JOHNSTON

HEEFNER

WHITTLE

7 - 7

BROWN PRATT

McGUIRE

HILL

LONG |

PRITCHETT

MEMBERS OF DELTA CIRCLE OF OMICRON DELTA KAPPA

Twenty-Five Juniors In

Advanced R.O.T.C. Work

Drill and Class Work Include Most
Practical Military Subjects

There are twenty-five Juniors taking the
advanced course in R. O. T. C. work, Their
duties in drill include the daily routine of
First Sergeants, Platoon’ Sergeants, and a
Battalion Sergeant Major. In their classes
which assemble once every week, they cover
during the year Map Reading, Military
Sketching, Drill and) Command, Machine
Gun, 37mm Gun, Trench Mortar Combat
Principles of Rifle Sections and Platoons.

The first two years of R. O. T. C. work
is known as the Basic Course; the last two
years, the Advanced Course, The Juniors,
who are taking the first year of the advanced
course, after completing that. year, attend
the C. M. T. C. during the summer, before
their Senior year. Most of the Juniors will
go to Fort McClellan at Anniston, Ala.
Some few select individuals will go to the
Chemical’warfare Training School in Mary-
land. Those attending’ Fort McClellan. will
start June Sth, and will finish July 15. Their
training includes physical training, first aide
hygiene, supply and administration, ceremon-
ies and inspection, drill and command, marks-
manship, musketry and combat firing, scout-
ing and patrolling.

The following are the Juniors taking the
advanced course, and their positions :

Cadet First Sergeants
Brock, T., Company “C”’; Rusk, D., Com-
pany “B”; Bird, A. R.; Company “A”;
Covington, H. S., Compahy “D’; Paul, J. L.,
Band.

Cadet Battalion Sergeant Major
Meacham, J. S.

Cadet Sergeants
Harris, B. R., Preston, J. F., Smith, J. L.,
Russell, R. D., Brock, J. L., Jackson, A. R.,
Wilson, R. G., McCutchan, J. W., Drake,
B. M., Kraemer, C. E., Sisson, C. A., Bost,
H. F., Sugg, W. G., Thompson, W. C., Hall,
R. S., Lowrance, B. R., Severance, J. L.,

Chamness, F. E., Mixson, H.

Moffett Addresses
Student Volunteers

Dr. L. I. Moffett, of Kiangyin, China, who
is a brother of Dr..H. M. Moffett, the col-
lege pastor, spoke to a joint meeting of Stud-
ent Volunteers and members of the Minis-
terial Band at the last meeting. Doctor Mof-
fett’s talk was on the existing conditions ‘iit
China at the present time. He told of the
many opportunities for advancement that
awaited the right type of men; and showed
very clearly that the world needs more and
better missionaries. Doctor Moffett, having
been a missionary to China for about twenty-
five years, is very well posted on the mis-
sionary work. His talk was very interesting
and interpreted the missionary situation very
clearly.

The members of the Davidson Student Vol-
unteer Organization, under Bill Belk’s lead,
recently collaborated in getting out the ‘“Vol-
unteer,” the magazine published by the North
Carolina members of the National Student
Volunteer Organization. The Davidson Vol-
unteer Band has charge of mimeographing
the magazine and sending it to all North
Carolina members, Bill Belk is the business
manager of the magazine.

Week-End Guests

The Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity had
as as their guests the past week-end the fol-
lowing: Miss Brantley Nichols‘and Miss. Ida
Bell of Charlotte, Miss Lucy Martin Currie,
Miss Carolina Moffett, and Miss Fredericka
Hallum of Davidson, Miss Lura Abiecrom-
bie of Grensboro, and Miss Edith Venroe-
fen of Copenhagen, Denmark.

Mr. D. G. Wilson visited the Phi Gamma
Delta: Fraternity over the wek-end and the
Pi Kappa Phi Fraternity has as their guests
Mr. Charles Hunt, Miss Christine Chamness,
and Miss Rosa Currie.

Campus Football Is
Gathering Interest

Led by a galaxy of brilliant stars such as
Johnston, Moore, Montgomery, “Whiz”
Miller, Pridgen, McGavock, and many others,
campus football is in its glory and day by
day: is becoming one of the foremost: minor
sports at Davidson. Each afternoon one can
see two stalwart lines composed mostly of
freshmen, who have the dirty work to do,
charging into each other while some senior
or junior, a, hero of former struggles, hurls
the ball to some waiting arms. It is no un-
common sight to see Johnston leaping high
into the air to take an almost impossible pass,
or to see the fleet little Johhny Moore circle
the end like a rabbit. “Whiz” Miller can
also be counted on the side of the stars.

Each afternoon has its hero and its goat.
Such for instance as when Gardner took a
thirty yard pass in the final minute of a
hectic struggle to break the 112-112 tie; or
when some freshman picked up the ball and
raced to the wrong goal line.

Interdormitory and inter-fraternity games
are quite common, the lid being prized off
this year by a thrilling struggle between
the Betas and K. A.’s, in which the former
came out on the large end of a.12-6 score,
led by the great work of Johnston.

TAP DAY EXERCISES

(Continued from page 1).
candidates had been officially pledged and
would be initiated at an early date.

All of the men elected to membership in
O. D. K. are leaders of prominence on the
Davidson campus. E. S. Heefner is Varsity
Cheer Leader for this year and is President

Of The Reporters Club. He is a member of],

Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. W. R.
Hill is Cadet-Major of the R. O. T. C. Unit
and Business: Manager of the 1929 “Quips
and Cranks.” Hill is a member of Pi Kappa
Alpha social fraternity. F. W. Johnston is
Captain of both varsity basketball and var-
sity tennis. He belongs to Beta Theta Pi
social fraternity. A. H. Whittle is Judge of
the Court of Control for the current year
and is Captain of the varsity track team.
Whittle is a member of Kappa Sigma social
fraternity.

The total membership of Delta Circle, the
Davidson chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa,
is a combination of students and faculty. The
student members are Z. V. Long, F. R.
Brown, C. R. Pritchett, T. W. Brohard, (;,
M. Pritt: W. B. McGuire, W. R. Hill, A.
H. Whittle, F. W. Johnston, E. S. Heefner.
Members in the faculty are: Prof. A. Currie,
Dr. J. M. Douglas, Prof. E. J. Erwin, Prof.
H. E. Fulcher, Dr. W. R. Grey, Mr. F. W.
Hengeveld, Mr. F. L. Jackson, Dr. T. W.
Lingle, Dr. J. M. McConnell, Dr. C. M.
Richards, Dr. M. E. Sentelle, Prof. We AZ,
Williams, Dr. W. L. Lingle and Coach W.
L. Younger.

The order of O. D. K. which is one of
the highest ranking organizations recogniz-
ing student leadership, was founded at Wash-
ington and Lee University on December 3,
1914, Delta Circle at Davidson has for years
been recognized as one of the most outstand-
ing of all the chapters, and her record of
service has been conspicuous.

WILDCATS AND WOLFPACK

(Continued from page 1) _ :
ginning to end, and is replete with thrills.

The large number of tie engagements is evi-
dence that the teams are generally rather
evenly matched.

The probable line-up of the two teams fol-
lows:

Davidson Position N. C. State
Brock (C) ------- | C1 Da ee eat Gardner
Raker =----<------ Oe Lepo (C)
DeCamp --------- EG eee eee eee Vann
Milton --------- Centers sseccesse Stout
Mathis .oc--s-ee— Rie eee May
Covington -------- RT ees sve2 Smathers
Proctor .-----.--- RE eects Jorden
Parrish ~..-------- 1D 3 eS Dellinger
McGalli=- = RE sees Melton |}.
BC? ee 3 2) eee Wright
Fraley ----------- QBirsse2eesdes Johnson

Battalion Reviewed By
Major Duval, Wednesday

Inspects Equipment, Classes and
General Condition of Military
Department

Major W. E. Duvall, ofthis Corps Area,
reviewed the battalion during the regular
drill formation, yesterday. In addition to ob-
serving the drill formation, Major Duvall
has attended class periods of the various
section, both yesterday and today. The drill
field, facilities for the various phases of Mili-
tary Training and Tactics, and the condi-
tion of supplies were also inspected.

This inspection is made every fall, by pro-
vision of the War Department, in order to
determine whether or not the local Reserved
Officers Training Corps Unit shall be. re-
commended for special govermental inspec-
tion, in the spring.

The purpose of the spring inspection is to
award, or not award, as the case may be,

the Distinguished Rating. It will be recalled
that the Davidson Unit has received this
honor for the past three years.

Literary Societies

Eumenean

An outstanding feature on the programs of
both literary societies at their meetings on
November 5 was a debate. The Eumenean
Society, however, devoted a large part ‘of
its program to the installation of | officers.
These officers for the next quarter are as
follows: President, R. T. Nunan; Vice-
president, J. F.. Preston; Secretary, J. D.
McFayden; Treasurer, A. R. Jackson; and
Reviewer, E. Ik. Marsh, The topic for debate
at the meeting, Resolved: “That the United
States should recognize the Soviet Govern-
ment of Russia.” W. A, Rembert and B. B.
Taylor defended the affirmative with vigor,
while W. B. Ward and E. A. Hancock pro-
claimed the negative side with equal vivacity.

—

Philanthropic

The Philanthropic members exercised their
ability on the subject, Resolved: “That Dav-
idson College should be co-educational.” Al-
though seeming to be of light nature, this
debate caused a considerable amount of
weighty argument. A. Warren and his col-
league declared themselves heartily in favor
of includingwthe fair sex in the Wildcat
ranks, but S. C. Coker and H. E. Russell
were of different opinion. The installation of
officers will be held at the next meeting.

Figure This Out
“whatchagotna packidge ?”
“sabook.”

“wassanaimubitt ?”

“sadickshunery. fullanaims. wife’s gon-
nagetta plecedoganagotta gettanaim
ferim.”—The Sou'’wester.

Voice on Phone: “Art Buggs is ill to-
day and unable to leave his bed for
classes. He wishes me to notify you.”

Prof.: “All right, who is this?”

Same Voice: “This is my roommate.”

blind flying!

Three new G-E contributions
to the conquest of the air

INDBERGH, flying blind much of the way,
hit Ireland “on the nose” as he winged
toward Paris. Now, as an aid to air navigation
comes the magneto compass, a product of Gen-
eral Electric research, which gives pilots a nav-
igating instrument of extraordinary accuracy.
Meanwhile, two other General Electric contri-

Il.

‘Alhnulin
yp}
i

/

My j /

meter.

Wid «A.
Wii y

butions to aviation have been developed—the
electric gasoline gauge and the radio echo alti-
The ordinary altimeter shows only
height above sea:tevel. The radio echo altimeter
warns the pilot of his actual distance above
ground or water by flashing green, yellow, and
red lights on the instrument board.

Every year hundreds of college-trained men and women enter the employment cf

General Electric. Research, similar to that which developed “‘eyes’’ for blind fly-
ing, is one of the many fields of endeavor in which they play an important part.

JOIN US IN THE GENERAL ELECTRIC HOUR, BROADCAST EVERY SATURDAY AT Q P.M., E.S.T. ON A NATION-WIDE N.B.C. NETWORK

95-713DH

GENERAL @ ELECTRIC
