8

THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 26, 1929

ATHLETICS LOOK BEST TO
' DAVIDSON PROF. FOR
COMING WORLD SERIES

Cubs Strongest at Second Base And
in the Outfield

The following is the first of a series of
sport articles written expressly for The
Davidsonian by Prof. J. T. Kimbrough of
the college faculty. This week Professor
Kimbrough compares the two competing
teams in the coming, world series, Ath-
letics and Cubs. Next week he will try to
forecast the actual outcome of the series
which starts October 4. Watch for his
article. ;

The heyday of the present baseball sea-
son has passed. The winners of both
leagues are already definitely decided.
Once again the world’s series casts its
long shadow over the fast ebbing major
league season and for the first time in
fifteen years the Philadelphia Athletics
and the Chicago Cubs meet in the spot-
light of this annual classic, which is the
pinnacle of the sport season.

Never in the annals of the sport have
two teams boasted such similar records
in their respective circuits. At this writing
each of the leaders bids fair to pass ‘the
century mark in games won. That_in_it-
self might be justly termed miraculous,
certainly I would call it unique.

A brief glance into current statistics re-
veal§ a close parallelism in the team bat-
ting and team fielding percentages of the
winners. Each has had its share of the
so-called “breaks” of the game, each has
been handicapped by the loss of- several
stars at different stages of the race, both
have suffered “slumps” of verying de-
grees of duration—and yet, time and again
each team has demonstrated its ability td
“come back,” displaying that vital quality
styled “guts” that so readily distinguishes
any champion.

Thus, even the most biased fan must
readily admit that, on paper at least, the
two pennant winners are well-matched.
Therefore, any comparison betweeen the
two must necessarily be based upon one’s
individual opinion, regardless of one’s
sentiment. So, the problem resolves into
an analysis of the strength and weakness
of each separate team position.

At first base the Athletics have Jimmie
Fox, a youngster who has come along
fast and who, in his second year as a
regular, appears destined to lead the
American League in batting. He is fast,
a good fielder, and above all dependable.
Charlie Grimm of the Cubs, generally
considered the best fielding first-sacker
in the majors, is not likely to break into
the coming series due to a recent injury.
Tolson, a minor leaguer of much prom-
ise, who has been substituting for Grimm,
has yet to prove himself a “big leaguer.”
Incidently, Grimm’s loss is a bitter blow
to the Cubs and the Athletics have a de-
cided edge at the initial sack.

At second base Rogers Hornsby of the
Cubs has the call over Max Bishop by a
wide margin. Always considered the
greatest right hand hitter the game has

“ever produced, the Rajah is also one of
the greatest fielders of all time at his
position. Sacrificing his own individual
talents to team play has slightly marred
his own record this season, but as a com-
pensation he has proved the main factor
in transforming the Cubs into a pennant
winner. I do not wish to. detract from
Bishop’s ability—he’s a fine player who
fits in well in the Athletic machine—but
the all-around superiority of Hornsby is
entirely too obvious.

At third base Jimmie Dykes, the most
versatile player in the game, has an edge
over McMillan of the Cubs. At various
times this season Dykes has-been called
upon to fill most every position on the
Athletic infield, and he has proved a star
in each different setting. He is a fine
fielder, possessing one of the strongest
throwing arms in the league, and ‘is a
dangerous batter in ,a pinch. McMillan
has had the unfortunate distinction of
-being pointed out as:the weakest spot in
the Cub lineup—but in all fairness one
must admit that his recent playing de-
. serves no such criticism. Who knows?
Perhaps this player is destined to be a
world’s series hero; assuredly he will be
giving his best efforts.

At shortstop the issue at-hand is quite
difficult to decide. On the one hand we
find English of the Cubs a greatly im-
proved player over last year. Playing
alongside the great Hornsby has trans-

_formed him from an apparently good
| fielder into a decidedly brilliant one. To
‘| watch this youngster, day after day, is a
' vivid reminder of the time of Charlie Hol-
| locher, when: asa Cub, he was the king of
“short fielders. On the other hand, Joe

NEW AUDITORIUM
AID TO CHAPEL

Along with the new auditorium of
Chambers, a great improvement over his-
torical Shearer Hall, a change has been
made in conducting the chapel devotional
exercises. This year the devotional ex-
ercises will be led by both factulty and
students, being led by each on alternating
days of the week. The faculty, led by Dr.
Lingle, will have charge on Monday,
Wednesday, and Friday, while the stu-
dents will conduct the exercises on Tues-
day, Thursday, and Saturday. The new
arrangement promises to build up a bet-
ter spirit of fellowship and understanding
between faculty and students, and will
aid in giving to the new men an insight
into the “inner life” of Davidson.

—————
r

Boley of the Athletics is one of the stead-
iest performers at his position. Both are
rather light hitters, but each offsets this
not uncommon defect by his playing in
the field. Youth versus age. Take your
choice. I call it all even.

The outfields of either team leave noth-
ing to be desired. Both trios are noted
for consistent and heavy hitting, for fast
and brilliant fielding and for accurate
throwing. Wilson, of the Cubs, and Sim-
mons, of the Athletics have been justly
mentioned as the most valuable players
in their respective circuits. Cuyler and
Stephenson excel in both hitting and field-
ing; Haas and Miller are not so very far
behind. All in all, the outer gardens of
both teams ‘will be well patrolled—but
I’m inclined to give the Cybs a narrow]
margin in all around efficiency.

Philadelphia is indeed most fortunate,
or perhaps I should say lucky, in having
two great catchers—Cochrane and Per-
kins. Their ability is»so well known that
it seems needless to comment on their
greatness. Most experts are unanimous in
naming Cochrane as the peer of mask-
men since the days of Johnny Kling. Per-
kins is a veteran who sits on the bench
only because it is his misfortune to be a
team-mate of Cochrane. Must I say
more? On the contrary, Chicago has been
most unfortunate in the loss of Gabby
Harnett, their star backstop, this entire
season. A big, brainy catcher, a mighty
hitter, capable of getting the last ounce of
effort out of his pitchers—his is an ir-
reparable loss. Zack Taylor, acquired on
waivers in mid-season, has done as well
as Hartnett’s successor as could be ex-
pected. In all around catching ability he
doesn’t measure up to Hartnett’s standard
and as a batter there is no comparison.
Barring injury Taylor should handle the
Cub mound corps in a> most satisfactory
manner, but his task of filling Hartnett’s
shoes is an impossible one. Gonzales, the
second string catcher is only an average
receiver. So, the Athletics’ catching staff
merits marked superiority.

A famous manager once said: “A team
is as strong as its pitching staff.” Pause
and consider: Bush, Root, Blake, Malone,
Nepf, and Carlson of the Cubs; Grove,
Rommell, Quinn, Earnshaw, Walberg, and
Ehmke of the Athletics. By what criterion
may one judge the relative strength of
such an array of pitching talent? Taken
collectively each group has been very ef-
fective during the present ‘race. Each in-
dividual is a potential choice to pitch one
or more games in the coming series. Who
will stand and who will crack under fire
is open to conjecture. Personally, I be-
lieve that pitching will be the dominant
factor in the series with the hurlers who
get the “breaks” winning.

In the final summation I present the
Chicago Cubs, weak at first base, third
base and behind the plate; and the Phila-
delphia Athletics, with no perceptible
weakness of any kind. Both teams are
ably managed. But—I must maintain that
Chicago’s superiority at second base and
in the outfield cannot offset the all around
greatness of the Mackmen.

FRESH RECEPTION
SPONSORED BY “Y”

On Monday night, September 16, the
Freshman Class of Davidson College was
entertained at a reception given at the
instigation of the Y. M. C. A. Members
of the Senior Class were present, in ac-
cordance with the custom which char-
acterizes this annual freshman reception.
The affair was staged in the banquet
hall of Chambers Building, which was at-
tractively arranged and decorated for the
occasion. The spacious room was lovely
in the color scheme of red and black, col-
lege colors.

In the receiving line were members of
the Davidson faculty and administration
and their wives. Most of the members of
the class of 1933 attended and for the
first time had the opportunity of meeting
all of the faculty members. Over an hour
was necessary for the newcomers to pass
down the receiving line, which contained
between seventy-five and one hundred
people.

Additional color was added to the oc-
casion by the girls of the town, who-as-
sisted in the serving. The Davidson Or-
chestra under Charlie Orr’s direction con-
tributed to the entertainment with popu-
lar music. No speeches were heard, this
custom having been adopted two years
ago when the orientation program was
adopted.

Mrs. Fred W. Hengeveld supervised the
work ‘of arranging the hall for the oc-
casion and it was largely due to her
splendid efforts that the reception was so
successful.

PLACARDS SPUR CATS
TO GREATER EFFORTS

Coach Monk Younger is not entirely
satisfied with the fight that his band of
Wildcats is exhibiting in practice. He
said that only a few of the men were try-
ing their best, and that he was disap-
pointed in the showing of some of his
players. This attitude was attributed part-
ly to hot weather of the early practice
sessions, and it was expected that with
the coming of cool weather the men
would snap out of it and display their
usual Wildcat fight. This belief has large-
ly been verified this week, following the
Elon game.

In order to combat this laziness and
instill more fight in the squad, the walls
of the dressing rooms have been be-
decked with placards. “Wildcats that are
licked are Wildcats that are dead,” is
one of them. Another, probably aimed at
the Army, is, “The bigger they are, the
harder they fall.” One placed for the
benefit of the “All-Americans” reads
“Give ’er the gun! If you give out, re-
member tthere’s a good man on the
bench to take your place.” The results of
this campaign has been noticed by the
increased spirit of the men on the field.

PINKNEY FIRST MAN
AT UNI. OF COLORADO

Jim Pinkney, well-known end on Davy-
idson College’s football’ team several
years ago, has developed an even more
remarkable reputation as a track man at
the University of Colorado, where he is
studying law and is eligible for participa-
tion in athletics. Pickney ran the 440- yard
run at Davidson while a student here, but
his time seldom came under 52 seconds.
This spring he clipped off this distance in
48 9-10 seconds, While performing for the
Colorado University: That’s fast time, for
the world’s record stands at 47.7 seconds
for this distance.

When Pinkney finished his four years
at Davidson in 1927, he was only 20 years
old, and the moralists point aut that his
case is similar to many other students,
who enter Davidson at an early age—so
early that they do not fully develop while
in college, and the height of their careers
is lost through a three-year performance

and graduation.

®

STATIONERY
FOUNTAIN PENS
SUNDRIES

Victor, Brunswick and Columbia Records
| every week

W. S, HENDERSON

CANDIES
SMOKES
SODA

FRATERNITY BID DAY.
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 1

With Bid Day set for Tuesday, October
1, the fraternity groups of the campus are
settling down to a feverish last minute
“rush.” :

Since the opening days of school, the
rushing game has been applied to the
utmost, all fraternities using the best
means at their disposal to impress the
new men. With eleven different groups in
competition, it has been a great strain
both to freshmen and upperclassmen, and
it is a foregone fact that’ studies have
suffered. Hence, everybody will hail the
great day with delight, and after Tues-
day the campus will settle down to a
more normal state. :

Regular “feeds” and “smokers” at the
various chapter halls have been the or-
der of the day, and, of course, the same
procession of freshmen and upperclass-
men winds its way to the houses after
each meal. During the past week, many
of the fraternities have treked to Char-
lotte for the usual banquets at which
active members and alumni vie with one
another in welcoming the prospects.

The period of rushing has been a week
longer this year than last, officially run-
ning from September 12 to October 1.
Bids will be issued on Monday night, the
freshmen receiving them Tuesday morn-
ing. A day of silence ensues, and Tuesday
night the freshman goes to the house of
his choice, after conference with repre-
sentatives of the several groups, in case
there-should be a conflict of bids.

INTERNATIONAL
PSYCHOLOGY CONGRESS
MEETS AT YALE

Dr. Hood and Other North Carolina
College Professors Atend the
Gathering

Dr. Fraser Hood, head of the psychol-
ogy department at Davidson College, has
recently returned from the Ninth Interna-
tional Congress of Psychologists at Yale
University, and declared that the “most
marked feature of the session was a de-
cided trend away from the old-fashioned
“mechanistic behaviorism’! He said that
psychologists were beginning to realize
that their problems demand a deeper in-
sight into reality than behavioristic prin-
ciples permit.

Dr. Hood estimated that 800 psychol-
ogists from Europe, Asia and America at-
tended the gathering, which held its meet-
ings for the first time on American soil.
French, German and English were the
three languages universally spoken,
though the great psychologist, Prof. Pav-
lov, of Lenine, spoke in Russian, which
had to be translated. Dr. Hood made the
interesting observation that the German
contingent was more familiar with the
English language than the French dele-
gation.

The Davidson professor contended that
the most widely known speaker was Prof.
Pavlov, who is an authority on and dis-
coverer of the conditioned reflex. He was
impressed by the litheness and alertness
of this 80-year-old-man, who would easily
pass for one of 60 years of age, he said.

Among other North Carolinians attend-
ing the conference were Dr. William Mc-
Dougall and Dr. F. Zene, of Duke Uni-
versity; Dr. Frederick Dashiell, Dr. M.
R. Trabue and Dr. F. E. Crane, of the
University of North Carolina, and Dr. J.
A. Highsmith, of North Carolina College
for Women.

JUNIOR ASSISTANTS :
TO HEEFNER CHOSEN

(Continued from page 1)

these men, instructing them in the principles,
and leaving much to their native ability.

These two assistants will be voted upon
by the student body, to see who will be the
cheer leader for the year 1930-31. This
election takes place in the spring, during the
regular student body elections.

LOCAL THEATER
OFFERS BIG BILL

The Davidson Theater is offering “im-
proved sound” these days, according to
the Brothers Stough, and the lineup of
coming attractions is one to stir the
pocketbooks of most students. Most of
the pictures are all-talking or have talk-
ing sequences. Synchronized musical
scores come with all..No more is the
patron. forced to listen to “Kiss Me
Again” while Tom Mix shoots up twelve
or fifteen bandits.
Bessie Love and Raymond Hackett
team up in “The Girl in the Show,” the
feature for today. This is an all-talking
Metro-Goldyn-Mayer production. Fri-
day is a Pathe feature with Ann Harding
and Frederick March entitled “Paris
Bound.” Miss Harding is billed as the
girl with the million dollar speaking
voice, and March is well remembered for
his fine work in Clara Bow’s opus, “The
Wild Party.” Saturday brings an old fav-
orite, Jack Holt- in Columbia’s produc-
tion of “Hurricane,” a racy melodrama.
George O’Brien in Fox’s “Salute,” John
Gilbert in another nocturnal effort, “His
Glorious Night,” and Fox’s Broadway hit
“The Cock-Eyed World” with Victor
MacLaglen, Edmund Lowe and = Lily
Damita are some of the stellar pictures
booked for the near future.

ALUMNI MARRIAGES

(Continued from Page Five)
At home: Myelvaron

Hotel, Tampa, Fla.

1925—Rev. Leonard Burns Gibbs to Miss
Ruth Lee Terry, of Easley, S. C. At
home: Tiger, Ga.

—Caldwell Pharr Johnston to Miss Mar-
garet Dixon Sikes, of Monroe, N. C.
19 S. “College St., Charlotte, N. C.

—Kenneth Shepard McAlpin to Miss
Lera Shelton Hobbs, of Davidson,
N. C., Care Atlantic National Bank,
Jacksonville, Fla.

1926—Charles Louis Bragaw to Miss Jean
Terrell, of Charlottesville, Va. At
home: 2308 Ashmead Place, N. W.
Washington, D. C.

—Wilson Howell Crane to Miss Jan
George, of Charlotte. At home: 715
W. Trade St., Charlotte, N. C.

—Hugh Nicholson Delinger to Miss
Frances Marion Turner, of Chester,
S. C. At home: 136 W. Chestnut St.,
Asheville, N. C.

—Knox Johnstone to Miss Carrol Smith,
of Washington, D. C. At home:
Mocksville, N. C. :

—Charles Kimball Marshall, Jr., to
Miss Catherine Holt Cox,of Raleigh.
Care Editorial Staff, Baltimore Sun,
Baltimote; Md.

—Archie Brown Williford to Miss Ruth
Williams Vaughan, of Cartersville,
Ga. Union Theological Seminary,
Richmond, Va.

1927—Walter Stewart Gordon to Miss Ellen
Stone, of Columbia, S. C. At home:
306 Hylan Ave., Hamlet, N. C.

—Wade Hampton Leggette to Miss Jes-
sie Irene McPhaul, of Red Springs.
Care High School, Winston-Salem,
N. C.

—William Robinson Sparrow to Miss
Clara Baity, of Harmony, N. C. At
home: Gastonia, N. C.

1928—Cornelius Oliver Cathey to Miss
Beulah Mae Proctor, of Cornelius.
Care Rutherford College, Connelly
Springs, N. C.
Lynn B, McClain to Miss Margaret
Bradley, of Sweetwater, Tenn. At
home : 4429 Lowell St., N. W., Wash-
ington, D. C.

—Harry Frederick Peterson to Miss
Mary Lord Little, of Atlanta, Ga.
Care Columbia Theological Seminary,
Decatur, Ga.

1929—Calvin Brice Baird to Miss Mary
Smith, of Union, S. C. Care Ameri-
can Trust Co., Charlotte, N. C. x

—Mark Draper Dunlop to Miss Ber-
nice McAuley, of Gotebo, Okla. At
home: Gotebo, Okla.

—Robert Marion Gant to Miss Eliza-
beth Darling, of Greensboro. At home:
706 N. Green St., Greensboro, N. C.

Apartment

MOORESVILLE ICE CREAM COM PANY

MANUFACTURERS OF
“DE LUXE” ICE CREAM
| BRICK AND FANCY CREAMS AND ICY PIES
Mooresville, N. C.

CALL FOR IT AT STUDENT STORE

?

