~w 3

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 3, 1929

Davidson Students Indicate Choice .
uu For Large Variety of Professions |£*cllent Tennis Squad

Large Number of Men Remain Un
decided as to Vocations

MEDICINE PROVES POPULAR
Business Ministry, Law, Education,

Engineering, and Banking Fol-
low in Order Named

According to the registration sheets, Dav-
idson students are entering into a great var-
iety of special fields of work in the future.

Nearly every branch of industry is repre- |,

sented on the list. There are also a large
number of students enrolled who are un-
decided as to their life work.

Davidson offers a fine opportunity for a
strong foundation in every subject listed.
" It is interesting to note that there are more
students who are undecided as to their life
work than those who signified a particular
preference. Also, medicine tops the list with
business coming second, and the ministry
lags third. This is the first time that business
has been second choice in several years.

The vocations chosen by the students are
as follows:
Work Preferred

No. of Students

Business ------.-........_....------ 80

Medicine ~----.----.22222-2----- ee. 93

Ministry ------.--2-2-2 2 70

Law --2 oe eee e eee 63

Educational Work .-.--.......----__. 35

Engineering .--------......--.--.-_. 29

Journalism ..2-------.---22. ..--e_ 6
Medical Missions ............----_-_ 4
Chemist ...----.. ns)
Missionary --.--- 0 2.) ween ee 1

Christian Work ‘_- teen 2
Dentistry --.---2-. 2022. eee 3

Forestry .----.---. .2-1..----------- 1

Plant Breeding ------..--...--_-..--_- 1

Farming ~-.-.--. Bee ane e een 4
Aviation --.--2--.0 222-2022 eee. 4-
Accounting -...------.-....--------- 7

Banking ------....-.- qoenne-e- ween le 15

Commercial Art ---.----.....------.- 1,
Coaching -----...-..222.... 2-2-2. 1

Rubber Planting -..-----.. 0-222. |

Physical Education 2... .--.-___-- 3

Boys’ Work _---. a 1

Y.M. CG. Aw ou. ee eee

Salesmen -...---. -- aanenneee 2

® Music ---..--.2.-2---2-.2e eee 1

Advertising ---..-..--2.. 0 -------- 1

Undecided ~.----.---2 ee 166
Quadwrangler Club

Initiates Dr. Lingle

— Thursday night, September 26, the Quad-
wrangler Club held a meeting and enter-
tainment to officially welcome Dr. and Mrs.
Walter L. Lingle to Davidson College. Its
Purpose was also to elect Dr. Lingle into the
Quadwrangler Club ranks.

The meeting was held in the beautiful new
club room on the third floor of New Cham-
bers. It was opened by the acting president,
Dr. Vowles, who welcomed the guests, in-
cluding Dr. and Mrs. Lingle, and the wives
of the faculty members.

Music-Was furnished by the Orr Brothers
in a violin duet, being accompanied by Paul
Frye. Next Professor Cullum, accompanied
by Ruth Broughton, of Chicago, II1., beauti-
fully rendered two vocal selections.

Amid much mock solemnity Dr. Walter
L. Lingle’s name was proposed for mem-
bership. After being certain that he could
perform certain tricks and customs, he was
duly elected as member of the great and
mysterious Quadwranglers |

The secretary, Professor Beaty, then read
a letter said to have been received by him
(probably also written by him) giving valu-
able information as.to the behavior of cer-
tain Davidson College professors during
their summér month abroad.

Refreshments were served and the meet-
ing was brought to a close. Professor Beaty
was in charge of the refreshments; Profes-
sor Lyon, arrangements; Professor Lilley,
decorations ; Doctor Vowlés, program.

A minister in addressing his flock be-
gan: “As I gaze about I see before me a
great many bright and shining faces.”
Just then eighty-seven powder puffs came
out.

“They've taken all the brooms out of
the White House.”

“Why?” .

“Because they’ve installed a Hoover.”

“ft

- “Papa, what do you call a man who
drives a car?”

“It depends on how close he comes to.

a

Tentative Schedule
Listed For Matmen

Although the eyes of all on the hill -are
focused’ on the eleven men who are uphold-
ing Davidson College’s honor on the grid-
iron, still many are looking forward to the
varied interests of the winter sports season.
Among the most of this group are those who
plan to center their attention on wrestling.

In preparation for the opening of the sea-
son on February 1, when N. C. State is met
at Raleigh, Coach Tex Tilson has advised

afternoon workouts for those men not out
for football, and soon expects to have regular
practice two nights a week. The long grind
of ,conditioning has commenced early this
year in hope that the men will be in the pink
of condition by the first meet.

An unusually stiff schedule has been ar-
ranged for this season, including Big Five
meets with N. C. State, Duke, and the U.
of N. C., The team journeys to West Point
where the strong Army team is met. Also,
a tentative meet is being arranged with the
U. of Virginia.

The following letter men will again repre-
sent Davidson College on the mat: Captain
Christenberry, Brown, Brohard, Cowan,
Warren, and Marrow. Some promising
sophomores, who have had previous exper-
ience at High or Prep school, are slated to
appear for workouts.

The schedule to date follows:

February 1—State at Raleigh.

February 8~V. P. I. at Blacksburg.

February 12—U. N. C., here.

February 15—Duke at Durham.

February 22—Army at West Point.

February 24—U. Va at Charlottesville
(Tentative).

Old Gold tob

..they do not require ‘artificial treatment’’

Davidson To Have Usual

With three of last year’s lettermen back in
ranks and all of last year’s freshmen team
also back, tennis prospects for this season
are very bright.

All of the returning lettermen have im-
proved their game during the summer and
are now practicing regularly every afternoon
when the weather permits. Last year’s let-
termen who returned this year are: Captain
Frontis Johnson, A. N. Halverstadt and W.
L. Poe. ,

All the members of last year’s freshman
team who have returned are preparing to put
up a fight for the position vacated by the grad-
uation of J. T. Roddy. E. Z. DuBose, No. 1
on the freshman team is the leading con-
tender for the coveted position while the
others are working hard to furnish him with
plenty of opposition. Members of the fresh-
man team were, E. Z. DuBose, S. B. Mc-
Lean, G. R. Fain and M. L. Roddey.

Added to the above mentioned are several
who were on neither team last year but’
have good prospects in this year’s race. A.
L. DeCamp, Pettus and several others who
have tried for the team in past years are at
school this year while D. G. Calder, T. W.
McLean and others from the freshman class
are also working hard for a position.

The Davidson tennis team of last year had
one of the best seasons ever recorded by a
Davidson team. Thirteen matches were play-
ed and thirteen matches were won while
a total of 72 individual matches was piled up
to 7 for opponents. With the material at
hand the team for this season should be able
to hang up a record quite as impressive as
those of Davidson Tennis Teams of the past
years.

LUTHER LITTLE TO SPEAK

(Continued from page 1)
In consideration of his past lectures, it is
certain that Dr. Little will have a valuable
message for all college students.

“9:

_” Stellar Half-Back .

Red Parrish, who was one of the most
ashy gainers in the Clemson game, Sat-

urday.

8

AN EARLY MATCH IS
PLANNED FOR GOLFERS

Announcement was recently made by L.
A. Mills, Captain of the Golf Team, that an
elimination tournament would be held at an
early date to determine those men who will
constitute this year’s team. The exact date
has not been definitely set.

Mills, and Jack Pepper who was recently
elected manager, were members of the team
last season and appear to be in Bood form.
The loss of J. B. Hutaff will be keenly felt.
Freshmen materia! is reported as being plen-
tiful but the yearling possibilities must re-
main doubtful to a large extent. A larger
number of candidates than usual have re-
ported up to this time. ;

A tentative match is being arranged with
the team of the Gastonia Country Club. This
should prove an exciting contest, as the Gas-
ton County Club has proved its quality in
Previous appearances.

For the benefit of those who are not parti-
cularly interested in this game at the pres-

q

ent time, let itd said that it has quite a fol-

flowing on the campus, both by students and °

faculty members. Dr. W. L. Lingle, Presi-
dent, indorses the game most highly and is
an habitual player.-Among others who have
an avowed liking for the links are Profes-
sors: Brown, Fulcher, Watts, and Doctor
Moffatt. -

Doctor Arbuckle, head of the Chemistry
department, and in active charge of the
course, states that the links are in the best
condition they have ever been, since their
construction. More improvements are planned
and will be put into effect as soon as possible.
Particular work and repairs have been made
on the third green. Especial attention is
called to the sign on which the rules of the
course are posted, at number one tee. Every-
one playing, is requested to carefully read
and observe these in detail. ;

Back

Joe McCall, Half-

Whoee eighty-five yard run for a touch-
down, against Clemson, was a feature of
the game.

When meat or fish or fowl has to be made good
by artificial flavoring or sauces, let your stom-

ach beware!

Beware, also, of tobaccos that

have to rely on “artificial treatment.’’

OLD GOLD tobaccos are naturally good ; made
| honey-smooth and free of “throat scratch”

by. Mother Nature herself. By the ‘violet

accos are naturally good

rays’’ of natural sunshine . . . not by artificial

treatment.

More than three million smokers have changed.

to this smoother. and better_cigarette.

No

other cigarette ever won so great a fan-family
in so short a space of time. Try a package

++. and you'll know why.

OP. Leritiard Co., Eet. 1700

Better “Tobaccos make them smoother and better-. . . with “not a cough
]

on,
On your Redio, OLD GOLD—PAUL WHITEMAN HOUR. Paul Whiteman, with hie complete orchestra, every Tuesday, 9 to 10 P. M., Bastern ‘Standard Time

in a carload’’
