THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 10, 1929

3

Davidson

SIDE LINE SHOTS

At the Wildcats Invasion of
Army’s Lair

By P. R. Alderman

ry

Day after tomorrow will finda Wildcat
team far away from home and battling
one of the biggest foes of her gridiron
history—the Army. It will be much the
same old story—a small and comparative-
ly weak eleven on foreign territory with
practically every odd against them. There
is no doubt that the Army has a much
heavier and more experienced team, more
reserve power and more everything, ex-
cept determination, than do the Wildcats.
The fight and spirit alone of a team, how-
ever, as has been proved time after time,
cannot bring victory in every case. These
qualities can win the respect and admira-
tion of the spectators, it is true, but it
takes at least some ability and real foot-

ball coupled with them to put that touch-
down over.

Now there’s no need to try to con-
vince anybody that the Wildcats have
plenty of fight and grit, because
that’s an established fact ‘and widely
accepted as such. But it is the writer's
opinion that the bare football know!l-
edge and ability of the '29 Red and
Black grid machine have been some-
what underrated, on as well as off the
campus. If the Cats win a game un-
expectedly or put up a surprisingly
good fight against a much stronger
foe, you can hear that well-known
phrase “the Wildcat fight” almost
everywhere you turn. This is well and
good and no true Davidson man
should wish it otherwise, b the
tradition and thought embodied in
that one phrase mean more to us than
any other one thing that could be said
about Davidson men, wherever they
are or whatever they might be doing.

But, in praising our gridders for their
unfailing exhibition of this spirit, we are
inclined to forget that they are real foot-
ball players and have learned their “foot-
ball” from two of the best coaches to be
found anywhere—Monk and Tex! Any-
one who saw the Davidson-Clemson clash
in Charlotte will have to admit two
things, at least, about the performance of
the Wildcats that day: they fought like a
wild beast cornered and they played foot-
ball, for the most part, like it ought to
be played. Could fight alone or even
united with a poorly-working ‘football

Tex Tilson

Assistant Football, Basketball and Track

Coach and Head Line Mentor of the

gridders whose untiring efforts have

enabled the Wildcats to develop one of
the strongest lines in Years.

Wildcats Win Over Wofford Terr

machine account for the fact that David-
son has scored on every opponent so far
this season and won two out of the three
games played? Hardly—it took that old
never-say-die spirit to make the eleven
play football the way they had been
taught to.

Perhaps the spirit of the team is due
more credit than their ability on the
field, and may it never be dethroned
from the position it now occupies in
in the hearts of Davidson men every-
where, but let’s also back our team:
and coaches for their co-operation
and hard work as they have labored
day after day to put out an eleven
that can really play football! So let’s
look at it like this: Monk and Tex
are leaving for West Point with a
group of Wildcats that are going to
show Uncle Sam’s Cadets more fight
than they imagined eleven men could
have and the soldiers are also going
to run up against a little more football
strategy than will prove beneficial to
them. Furthermore, the Army is go-
ing to have to fire its biggest guns to
prevent a comparatively obscure grid
team from handing a big upset to the
realm of sports in general!

“T don’t like the hang of things,” re-
marked the prisoner on the scaffold.

Henry Ford: “Every dollar I have was
made honestly.”

Candid Friend; “By whom?”

VICTORY AVENGES LOSS
TO TERRIERS LAST YEAR

Don King Scores Only Touchdown
of Game

The Davidson Wildcats won ‘a seven to
nothing ‘verdict over the Wofford Terriers
at Spartanburg last Saturday. The 'Cats
found an unexpected resistance in the Ter-
riers, and it was not until the last quarter
that they were able to push over their lone
counter. The victory atoned in some measure
for the defeat the Terriers handed Davidson
last year.

Well into the fourth quarter the two teams
battled without either being able to gain con-
sistently on the other. It looked as if the
game would end in a scoreless tie, until a
combination of breaks enabled the ‘Cats to
gain possession of the ball in Wofford terri-
tory. A Terrier pass was intercepted by
Bill Mason, ’Cat center, which placed the
ball on Wofford’s thirty yard line. Davidson
opened up an offensive that carried the ball
to the seven yard line. An off-side penalty
placed the ball on the two yard line, from
where Fraley and King carried the ball over,
the latter actually taking the ball across
the last white marker. Brock unerringly place
kicked the extra point.

Early in the first quarter, too, the ‘Cats
came very near scoring. They took the ball
in the middle of the field, and marched
down to the one yard line. Here a fumble by
McCall lost eight yards and a pass failed on
the last down, the ball going over to Wofford
on their own ten yard line. A final Davidson
scoring threat was cut ‘short by the closing

iers

Play-by-Play Returns

On Saturday afternoon at 2:00
o'clock play-by-play reports of the
Davidson-Army battle will be wire-
lessed from West Point by Ernest
Milton to the student body here. It
has been customary in the past for
such returns to be made of games
too far away for convenient attend-
ance, a charge of about 25 cents
being made to cover expenses. This
has necessarily been increased to
S0c for the Army game. Reports
will be received in the gym.

whistle, the ball being on the fifteen yard line
as the game closed. Wofford never seriously
threatened to score throughout the whole
game. All their offensive efforts were pretty
well smothered by the ’'Cat forward wall, and

(Continued on page 6)

Stalwart Linesman

Ledyard DeCamp, Wildcat Guard, whose

defensive work against Wofford last Sat-

urday proved one of the main factors in
Davidson's victory.

John F. Preston

BRASSWARE

Imported Direct from Korea
MAKE IDEAL CHRISTMAS GIFTS
Samples will be shown to Town Residents
e Always on Display in 109 East

Ledyard DeCamp

if

...in.a cigarette it’s.

“STICKIN’ to our knittin’”— never forget-
ting that Chesterfield’s popularity depends on

the ring

Chesterfield’s taste...

But what ‘s taste? Aroma, for one thing —
keen and spicy fragrance. For another, that sat-
isfying something— flavor, mellow tobacco
goodness— which we can only call “character.”
Taste is what smokers want; taste is what

Chesterfield offers —

“TASTE above everything ”

:®

¢p@ 1929, Liccurr & Mrzzs Tosacco Co,

pit

s PUNCH /

MILD. .. and yet
THEY SATISFY

hesterfield

FINE TURKISH and DOMESTIC tobaccos, not only BLENDED but CROSS-BLENDED

