THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 21, 1929

by)
E

d

Hye kelly
ld 4 Vi ' NY

HOME-COMING
Declared to be
Successful One

Despite Disagreeable Weather
Many Former Students Par- “|
ticipated in Festivities of
the Day

Elsewhere in this issue of The David-
sonian are accounts of the individual
events of Home-Coming Day last Satur-
day, which gives the readers of this pub-
lication full details of the celebration.
This article is simply a brief resume of
the festivities, and expresses the opinion
of alumni officials.

Although the activities of the annual
Home-Coming Day exercises were ham-
pered by inclement weather, this has in no
wise lessened the attendance or dimin-
ished the pleasures of returning alumni.
The morning exercises in Chambers build-
ing were far better attended than any
Home-Coming event heretofore; the drill
of the R. O, T. C. battalion was the best
of the season, even though the formation
was executed in the rain; more alumni at-
tended the luncheon than ever before; the
stunt night performance was above par;
and the football game was amazingly at-
tended and one of the best exhibitions of
grit and pluck ever seen on Richardson
Field.

Registration in the alumni office was
lower than at any time since thé office
was established at Davidson in 1926, but
this is explainable because the visitors
went to one spot-and generally remained
there because of the rain. No one seems
to question th@increased number of alum-
ni who were on the campus, and they
came’ to Davidson from distant points
throughout the southland.

As announced to the student body, the
Home-Coming celebration at Davidson is
fast becoming a main-word instead of a
by-word. Numerous alumni return to Da-
vidson for the expressed purpose of meet-
ing their friends. This is true of those in
the earlier classes, who were students here
at a time when football was not played
and who are unfamiliar with the work-
ings of this great pastime.

Commencement of 1930 will occupy the
attention of thé alumni office during the
next few months, but tentative plans are
already being made for the Home-Com-
ing of 1930. A possible date is being dis-
cussed, and the events for the occasion
are receiving consideration even at this
carly date.

Engagements

a

Hodges-Monk

Announcement was made in the Atlanta
(Ga.) papers Sunday about the engage-
ment of Miss Elizabeth Hodges, of De-
catur, Ga., to Rev. Chester Franklin
Monk, of Long Beach, Miss., the mar-
riage to take place on December 23rd.
Mr. Monk is in the class of 1926.

Crawford-Wilkinson
The engagement of Miss Ruth Craw-
ford to Robert Alton Wilkinson, both of
Mebane, was announced last Sunday. The
wedding will take place on December
28th. Mr. Wilkinson is a graduate of Da-
vidson in the class of 1926.

Parson-Corning

Mr. and Mrs. H. C. Parsons, of Rock-
ingham, announce the engagement. of
their daughter, Anna Scales, to Robert
Crump Corning, of Hamlet, the marriage
to be celebrated in December. Mr. Corn-
ing is in the class of 1929.

Louise: “Can you beat it? The stage
manager offered me ten dollars for a kiss
yesterday.”

Betty: “Did you slap his face?”
Louise: “Yes, and he came through
with twenty.”

Alumni Write in About
Recent Radio Program

Letter Received in the Alumni
Office from Men in New York,
Mississippi and Alabama

Davidson alumni, over a wide territory,
neard the radio ea Ide, beh phd Sta- mediately seemed to recognize the voice
tion WBT in Charlotte !ast Thursday
night as a preliminary to Home-Coming
Day, and several of them havz expressed
their appreciation. Two wires were re-
ccived by Prof. Archibald Currie follow-
Dede tol PRE eanE Uerecatac bbs What a thrill it was to hear ‘O Davidson’
McGeachey, D.D., 96, Decatur, Ga.

Excerpts from letters received in the From Mr. Hugh L. Shelby, ’27, at Ala-
alumni office follow:

nave been more of it. Please accept my
heartiest congratulations and best wishes
for further success.”

Rev. Chester F. Monk, ’26, from Long
Beach, Miss., said that “Program over
WBT came in clearly and distinctly to-
night. Was trying to locate WBT on a
friend’s set and heard Prof. Currie say
‘auditorium’ as I moved the dial. I im-

and hesitated long enough to increase
the volume-and take it all in. L appreci-
ated the program and fclt as if I was
once more in touch with the school. The
orchestra and glee’ club sounded good.

sung by Davidsonians again!”

bama Military Institute, Anniston, Ala.,

Mr, J. E. Faw, ’15, wrote from his home | came this: “That orchestra and glee club
at 122 Archbold Place, Westfield, N. J., to| Caused me to miss my supper tonight,
the Davidson Orchestra and Glee Club,| but T must say it was worth it to hear
saying that “as a former member of the Prof. Currie’s voice again and to sit with
orchestra and glee club it was with espe-| With the orchestra and glee club once
cial interest that I listened to your very} more. The program was great and T
excellent program last night. The strains don’t begrudge my supper in the least.
of ‘O Davidson’ brought a rea! thrill, and Many others at Davidson for Home-
my only regret was that there could not| Coming Day expressed like sentiments.

Alumni Marriages

Miller-Thompson

Hugh Parks Miller, of Fort Worth,
Texas, and Miss Abby Thompson, of
Louisville, Ky., announce their marriage
in Oklahoma City, Okla., on November
2th. Mr. Miller attended Davidson in the
class of 1914. He was in Louisville for
thirteen years’ until’ he moved to Fort
Worth in July. He is connected with the
United States Tire Company in that city.

Moffffet-McLean

Mr. and Mrs. J. C. McLean, of Raeford,
annoufice the marriage of their daughter,
Mary Elizabeth, to Alfred Nesbit Moffet,
of Taylorsville, on Tuesday, November
5th. Mr. Moffet is a graduate in the class
of 1925, attended Louisville Theological
Seminary until last January when he was
forced to withdraw because of a serious
operation, He is now located in Taylors-
ville, where he holds a pastorate.

ona OUBSE

...In a cigarette it’s

“Hrr THE NAIL on the head” ++. Ccut out the
frills, give smokers the one thing they want—

and sales will take care of themselves.

At least, that’s the Chesterfield platform. The
one thing smokers want is good taste—and that’s
the one thing we’re interested in giving them—

“TASTE above everything ”

C

> 1929, Liccerr & Myers Tosacco Ca,

Ukelele Ike: “Can you talk German,
Charlie?”

Charlie: “Sure.”

Ike: “Gwan, let’s hear you.”

Charlie: “O. K. I'd ike a drink, but I

dunnerwetter get it.”

HAIRCUT?

WE GIVE
PROMPT
AND
SATISFACTORY
SERVICE

NORTON’S
BARBER SHOP

hesterf ield |

FINE TURKISH and DOMESTIC tobaccos,.not only BLENDED but CROSS-BLENDED

MILD .... and yet

THEY SATISFY

