THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 31, 1929

*y)

aT
acl
a)

Davidson Alumnus Wins
National Banking Honor

Paul P. Brown, ’03, of Raleigh, is
Second Vice-President of Ameri- _
can Secretaries’ Association

Among the Davidson College alumni
taking a leading role in banking activ-
ities is Mr. Paul Paisley Brown, of Ra-
leigh, a graduate of Davidson in the class
of 1903. For many years he has been
prominent in state circles, serving as sec-
retary of the North Carolina Bankers’
Association, and when this body held their
annual meeting last June in Asheville he
was re-elected to that office. tp

Paul P. Brown

However, national recognition has come
to this Davidson alumnus. At a recent
meeting of the state secretaries’ section of
the American Bankers’ Association in
San Francisco, Calif., Mr.. Brown was
chosen second vice-president. The: offi-
cers of this association progress one step
annually, which means’ that two years
hence Mr. Brown will be president of this
section.

Mr. Brown came to Davidson from
Newton, N. C., in 1901, entering as a mem-
ber of the junior class. After completing
his undergraduate work, he immediately
went into the field of banking, and for a
long time was connected with the Ameri-
can National Bank in Asheville. For many
years he has been a resident of Raleigh,
which is the headquarters for his work
as state secretary of the assotiation.

In June, 1928, Mr. Brown returned to
Davidson for a visit for the first time
since he had graduated. He said that he
was coming back to see the Davidson of
today and decide whether he wanted to
send his son here. He was convinced, for
ina recent letter to the alumni office he
intimated his intention of enrolling his
boy within a few years.

1928 Graduate Now

‘Mayor of Home Town

Perhaps the most signal honor which
has come to any recent graduate of Da-
vidson College was that conferred upon
Joe D. Welborn, of the class of 1928,
when he was elected this summer as
mayor of his hometown, Pelzer, S. C.
Officials of that locality declare that he is
the youngest mayor ever to hold such an
important office there, and it is Joubtful
if few people in the United States have
held public positions so quickly after
completing their college courses.

No, information has been received at
Davidson as to the new policies which
are to be enacted under his administra-
tion, or whether he will attempt any
changes there. The results of so young a
- mayor will be watched with interest. His
friends believe that he will make an ex-
cellent executive, for his work at David-
son stamped him as one who would
succeed.

The only comparable incident to Mr.

Over Fifty Davidson
Men At Chapel Hill

Fifty-one former Davidson students are
now residing at Chapel Hill, the seat of
the University of North Carolina. Some
of them are connected with the Univer-
sity in the capacity of teaching, many of
them are doing graduate work, while still
others are completing their undergraduate
courses after leaving Davidson. The com-
plete list of men there are given below,
with their addresses, this list being fur-
nished the alumni office by John M.
Andrew, '28, in his second year of medi-
cal school. It is given according to classes.

1879—Dr. M. C. S. Noble.
1881—Prof. A. C. McIntosh.
1899—-Prof, I. C. Griffin.
1907—Coach Robert A. Fetzer.
1916—Prof. R. W. Morrison.
1919—Prof. C. B. Robson.
1921—Prof. R. A. McPheeters.
1923—Harry K. Russell.

1925—John B. Gallant, 303-B E. Rose-
mary Lane; J. A. Thompson, 211 Vance
Street.

1927—W. T. Covington, 215 Henderson
St.; W. O. Puckett, 209 Smith Bldg.

1928—J. M. Covington, 405 Grimes Bldg. ;
F. B. Kuykendall, 412 Mangum Bldg, P.
R. Mauldin, 108 Hillsboro St.; D. R. Mc-
Eachern, 405 Grimes Bldg.; Robert L.
McMillan, 11 Pettigrew Bldg.; Henry T.
Powell, 104 Manly Bldg.; A. S. Rose, 108
Hillsboro St.; S. W. Vance, 414 Grimes
Bldg.; T. C. Watkins; W. E. Wilkinson,
303 Old West Bldg.

1929—W. H. Flythe, 108 Hillsboro St.;
H. C. Harrell, 108 Hillsboro Sta. bs
Hall, Pi. Kappa Phi; D. F. Martin, Jr.,
209 Smith Bldg.; W. B. McQueen, Jr.,
215 Henderson St.; T. M. Northrop, 213
Ruffin Bldg.; C. T. Smith, 117 S. College
St.; R. G, Walser, Phi Kappa Sigma; Jas.
W. Williams, Pi Kappa Phi.

1930—W. R. Hooks, 213 Aycock Bldg.;
J. L. McNair, 34 Steele Bldg.; J. C. Wil-
liams, Delta Theta Pi.

1931—Chas. P. Coble, care Mrs. Jack
Andrews; G. S. Dickson, 210 Pittsboro
St.; Chas. H. Farrell, Archer House;
Chas. A. Glenn, 314 Lewis Bldg.; P. W.
Glidewell, Jr., 229 E. Franklin St.; K. D.
Hampton, 10 Vance Bldg.; C. B. Mc-
Kethan, Chi Phi; Hector McLean, 34
Steele Bldg.; R. S. Overman, care Mrs.
Giles; Phillip Padgett, Box 14; F. M.
Scroggs; T. L. Umphelt, 307 Graham
Bldg.; G, L. Weeks, 34 Steele Bldg.

1932—I. C. Griffin, Jr., 223 Vance St.;
L. D. Hooks, 213 Aycock Bldg.; S. H. Up-
shaw, 3 Steele Bldg.

A Freshman was a chemist,
That Freshman is no more,

For what he thought was H20
Was H2S04.

As we see ’em: These Frestititen are alike
in many disrespects.

lll a—a—ae———a

Willborn’s is that of Harold D. Burke, of
the class of 1926, who was elected to the
state ligislature two years after he grad-
uated from Davidson. Mr. Burke has al-
ready served in one session of this legis-
lative body. Close friends call him “Sen-
ator” Burke now, and perhaps the class-
mates of Mr. Welborn will write him,
using the salutation, “His Honor.”

“J

C. S. Hicks, Successful
Bank Official, Honored

Davidson Alumnus Chosen as As-
sistant Secretary-Treasurer
of Cotton Growers Association

Charles Speers Hicks, ’07, of Erwin, N.
C., has been elected by the board of di-
rectors to become assistant secretary and
treasureg of the North Carolina Cotton
Growers Association, and has gone to
Raleigh where he’ has begun his duties
in this office. The directors were careful
in their selection of a man for this posi-
tion, for in reporting Mr. Hicks’ choice,
they stated in their official organ:

“In making this selection it was the
opinion of the board of directors that
this position should be filled by a banker
of some reputation who not only had the
confidence of the banking institutions of
the state, but that he should also be from
the cotton belt, thoroughly familiar with
the cotton farmers’ problems, and with
a sympathetic attitude toward the co-
operative marketing movement.”

C. S. Hicks

Mr. Hicks was: originally from Wil-
mington and started his banking career
with the Murchison National Bank of that
city, and was later connected with the
Wilmington Savings and Trust Company.
At the early age of twenty-one he was
made cashier of the Bank of Whiteville,
later going to Harnett county in 1910,
where he has _ been actively engaged in
banking at Dunn and at Erwin. For the
past several years Mr. Hicks has been
active vice-president of the Bank of Har-
nett at Erwin, and also vice-president of
the Commercial Bank at Dunn.

In. addition to his banking activity, Mr.
Hicks has found time to take a leading
part in church movements, and for a long
period of years has been superintendent
of the Presbyterian Sunday School at
Erwin.

Billy—“I have no more faith in women.”

Chilly—“Why not?”

“Billy—“I put a matrimonial advertise-
ment in the paper and one of the replies was
from ‘Red.’”

Eyes of glass,
Teeth of clay—
Peroxide blond—

She’s phoney that way.

SHOP REPAIRING

WRIG

CLEANING

“Honor to Whom Honor Is Due”’

GIVE US A TRIAL

HT CLEANING CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Bob Turner, 31 Georgia

DYEING

PRESSING

—
—

During the recent Home-Coming celebration of the state of North Carolina,
The Raleigh News and Observer carried a special section devoted to photographs
and messages from distinguished out-of-state North Carolinians. Among the num-
ber were Dr. Henry Louis Smith (left) and Dr. Ben R. Lacy (right, president of
Washington and Lee and Union Theological Seminary, respectively, both of them
alumni of Davidson. Through the courtesy of The News and Observer, all photos on

this page are used today.

Alumni Deaths

Dr. W. S. Boyd, 82

Information was received at Davidson
this week of the death of Dr. William
Sims Boyd, aged 68, graduate of David-
son in the class of 1882. Death occurred at
his home near Kingstree, S. C. Dr. Boyd
entered Davidson from Salter’s Depot, in
South Carolina, and after completing his
work here went to Johns Hopkins for
two years, transferring to the University
of Maryland his senior year, where he
obtained his medical degree. He had been
a practicing physician for many years in
Jersey City, N. J., and in South Carolina.

Dr. F. S. Robinson, ’92

The president of the Jacksonville (Fla.)
Alumni Association has notified the alum-
ni secretary of the death of Dr. F. S. Rob-
inson, of the class of 1892, death occurred
at his home in Jacksonville, Fla.. on Oc-
tober 9th. Practically no information is
given in the catalogue about his life, ex-
cept that he was a dentist.

“Do you ever change your mind?”
“Never,” declared Senator Sorghum. “But
the public shifts its sentiments. And I don’t
feel. morally compelled to go on. forever
shouting the same old stuff !’—Washington
Star.
SS

Births

1918—Mr. and Mrs. W. N. Mebane an-
nounce the birth of a son, William Nel-
son, III, on September 30th.

192I—Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Beaty an-
nounce the birth of a daughter on Octo-
ber 28th,

Cumberland hails a new method of in-
struction. Go to classes and enjoy good
radio music.

HAIRCUT?

WE GIVE
PROMPT
AND
SATISFACTORY
SERVICE

~ NORTON’S
BARBER SHOP

weight to suit you in HANES.

SATIFIES
YOUR EVERY UNDERWEAR NEED

SHIRTS and SHORTS
ATHLETICS and RIBS

Nobby Shirts in cotton or rayon. White, solid colors or pastel trims.
Shorts in fancy patterns and what will you have? 50c, 75c, and $1.00. The
famous SAMSONBAK Athletic Union Suit with the patented “Tug-of-War”
belt in checks and fancy materials—$1.00. If you like Ribs, there’s a style and

P. H. HANES KNITTING CO.
Winston-Salem, N. C.

