Page Four

THE DAVIDSONIAN

March 22, 1929

| Wilmington Pastor

“Better Than One’s Best” Topic
of Dr. Gilmour’s Address

“An invasion will take place in Ameri-
ca in which ‘every every
minister, every legislator, and every doc-
tor will be supplanted,” said Dr. A. D. P.
Gilmour, pastor of the First Presbyterian
Church of Wilmington Sunday night at
“Y" Vespers. “That invasion,’ he con-
tinued, “is the itivasion of the coming
generation,”

Dr.*Gilmour’s topic was “Better Than
One's Best,” and his text was taken from
the story of Caleb, who in his eighty-
fifth year asked Joshua “for the hardest
work of driving the Canaanites from the
Promised Land, and said, “If so the Lord
be with me, I shall drive them out.” Caleb
was, Dr. Gilmour said, better than his
best at that time, because he did not
count on his own strength.

In speaking of the rising generation, Dr.
Gilmour said that since they are soon
to take over the work of the world, there
is nothing so important as young boys
and girls. Except for young people, he
said, enthusiasm would be almost entirely
lacking in the work that is going on in
the world today.

The speaker brought out the strong
effect that our lives have on the lives of
others. He said, “It's good to know, bet-
ter to do, and best to be,” and because of
this he said that we should try each day
to make our lives better.

Dr. Gilmour stressed the need in the
rising generation of the spirit of doing
better than one’s best, and in closing gave
an example of a college baschall player,
who pitched better than his best for the
memory of his dead father. Dr. Gilmour
said that each person should remember
that the eyes of his Heavenly Father
are upon him.

business man,

.

ATHLETI CASSOCIATION

(Continued from page 1)
so one of the vice-presidents of the

student body this year. Brohard 7
from Grafton, W. Va. He isa mem-
ber of the Phi Gamma social frater-
nity.

W. B. Goodson is from Lincolnton,
N.C, During his fresh year he made
his numerals in both basketball and
baseball, serving as captain of the
fresh quintet. This year he showed up
well on the varsity basketball team and
was awarded a letter. Goodson is a
member of the Phi Delta Theta social

fraternity. W. L. David proved his

‘ability during his fresh year on the

football team. This year David made
his letter as a varsity end, being rated
as among:the best in the state. His
home is in Wilmington, N. C.

“Tam going down to the Adam and
Eve Place. Want to go?”

“Don’t know where it is.”

“281 Apple.”

“Oh Henry,
my? back,”

“Aw shut up—those jokes were all
right before we were married.”

I've got a bug down

Pictures

Views and Events

Satisfaction Guaranteed

CALL KOOP 185-J
Williamson House N. Main St.

_ Speaks at Vespers |

Fry

McConnell

Receive Scholastic Honor

Davidson bri; igh
The above men recently accepted Phi Beta Kappa bids, when the spring bids were issued. A picture of*L. D.

Kirkland, who also accepted a bid, was not available. These seven men, in addition to the fall elections make thirteen
members of the student body that Phi Beta Kappa has elected this year.

Hill

to

| Alumni Marriages

_ Miss Ruth Arrowood and Mr. Hugh
G. Miller, Jr., both of Shelby, “were fé-
cently married at the home of the bride's
parents, Rev. H. N. McDiarmid, ’11,
performing the ceremony.

Mr. Miller attended the Shelby High
school, and come to Davidson College
in the class of 1928. He remained here
until 1927. He is now connected with
the First National Bank in Shelby. After
a wedding trip they will be on South
Washington St., Shelby.

Andiews Speaks On
Topic of Education

Stresses the Value of a Vocation
to Society

“We aré all fellow workers in the field
of inquiry,” said Mr. T. W. Andrews, in
addressing a group of students on “Edu-
cation as a Profession” in Shearer Hall on
March 11th. Mr. Andrews, a graduate
of the University of North Carolina, and
member of Phi Beta Kappa, is superinten-
dent of the city schools at High Point,
N.C. He was secured by the Vocational
Guidance Institution to speak on the above
subject.

The substance of Mr. Andrews’ talk is
as follows: The business of everybody
is to get ahead in the world.
a vocation one should consider three main
things. First, the value of your vocation
to society. It is possible to choose a
profession like that of “Shipwreck” Kel-
ley, the flagpole sitter, or it is possible
for your profession to really be worth
something to the world, as that of Thomas
Edison, Second, the value of your vo-
cation to yourself. The financial gain, the
pleasantness, and the distinction it affords.
Third, the chances it offers to get ahead
in the world. Education amply fulfils these

In choosing

needs, Without it we would have no
society. Though it does not pay exces-
sively high salaries, on the average it

is a better paid profession than law or
The fact that some of the
most outstaffding men of the nation are
college professors shows that it also of-

medicine.

JUNIOR MANAGERS
CHOSEN FOR 1930

Alderman, Berry, and Hancock
Selected for Basket Ball
Positions

P. R. Alderman, Jr., J. G. Berry, and
W.#B. Hancock, have been elected Junior
Basketball managers for the 1930 season.
These three men were selected.from five
Sophomores, who were competing for the
position. Those eligible to vote for the
manager were Coach Younger, the varsity
manager, and the varsity team. The elec-
tion was held Tuesday, March 12.

Alderman, a native of Alcolu, S. C.,
is a member of Pi Kappa Phi social fra-
ternity and of Delta Pi Kappa, honorary
journalistic fraternity. He is also a mem-
ber of the Reporters’ Club and Historian

fers a chance for greatness.

Education is a growing profession and
one not overcrowded with men. For-
merly its sole purpose was sound scholar-
ship. Now five other important items
have been added; sound health, worthy
home membership, good citizenship, wise
use of leisure time, and development of
character.

In conclusion: the ideal- teacher should
have the four following qualifications :
aptitude for putting oneself in another's
place, an already accumulated wealth of
Fnowledge, the power to invigorate knowl-
edge through his personality and a_will-
ingness to be forgotten.

Good Showing Made

By Rifle Team Men

of the past three weeks.
four weeks is also good, nine matches be
competition, Davidson did well.

the Hearst Trophy Match.
recorded for any five Davidson men,

The Davidson Rifle Team has shown up remarkably well in the competition
The result of the correspondence matches for the past

ing won and six lost. Considering the

Beginning this week, the five men having the highest scores will compete in
The five men selected hold the highest scores ever

Competitor Davidson
Score Score Won Lost
February 23, 1929
Washington University --.---.-----___- 3392 3426 34 ae
University of Illinois --.-..-.._.-_____- 3650 3426 ee 224
HUCXASH AS: Gu) Stkue Laie au oat coe sin 3634 3426 ae 208
Georgetown University ~..---.--______ 3411 3426 15 oat
lafayette: Collewe su-o.cs0 no cco No oe 3377 3426 49 wks
March 2, 1929
Mississippi A. & M. SDE ee ea sea aa 3640 3515 slg 125
Rutgers University Wee pe pa EN Relipagecge pei agrae 3438 3515 77 Seat
Pennsylvania Military College -...-.-_- 3714 3515 oS 199
University of Idaho ~---___-___ seers tens |. | 3515 ae 16
North Carolina State........__-..-_.___ 3636 3515 past 121
March 9, 1929
University of Washington -_-_-________ 2672 2673 1 ae
Massachusetts Agricultural College -.-. 1772 1849 77 eee
Virginia Polytechnical Institution -.-..-. ___- 3614 Gu me
University of California -...-.--...___. < 3534 3614 80 esa
University of Kentucky 3614 12 aes
March 16, 1929
Connecticut Agricultural College -...... 1786 1874 88 wee
Scores of the men who fired in the Hearst Trophy Match:
WAG SS see Rc eet Genel in es See ea a pa Rui Dieirenciee aati 382
Rese) KER ERD) see ee fe AE ee i ace elena ge Neen Oe 376
GreverjeGysPy ics Soo oa She Ree egy ae tc ati ree ea PN 375
Brookes) esl tages eat Rae oe ne aera ie il - 371
Flat ibis eee a luca cose ok ue Rainn Raho tee meee Pee sien hgh 370

Professor Beatty Talks
On “Luke’s Method”

Ministerial Band

The subject of Prof. Beaty’s talk before
the Ministerial Band on last Sunday af-
ternoon was, “The Apostle Luke’s Method
of Dealing with Intellectual Difficulties in
His Gospel.” The talk was of a prac-
tical nature. as have been other recent
addresses before the band.

Many people these days pride them-
selves on their not reading the Bible and
they leave it up to the preacher to read
it to them. This is the wrong attitude,
for everybody should look for the facts
in the Bible for himself.

Luke in addressing his gospel to Theo-
philus was writing to an immature Chris-
tian and one who needed aid in confirm-
ing himself in Christianity. Luke under-
takes to write to him a connected narrative
that he might be able to know the truth of

the things he has. heard. Luke’s aim
was for Theophilus to get the right
knowledge.

The worst enemies of Christianity are
not out and out anti-Christians but those
who thinks that it makes no difference
what a person believes. The former type
can be fought straight from the shoulder
but the latter can not be so treated,

Some time ago some Angelicon clergy-
men sought to throw out of the Scripture
the stories which seemed absurd to them.
However, if we throw out what seems
absurd to our minds we will throw out
the best, because to a rational mind the
thought of the Resurrection an ab-
surdity. We have to take the Scripture
on faith,

Luke also stressed a care fut Phveatinns
tion as giving the self-evident facts. It
takes a thinking man to get the scien-
tific facts. And in order for the congre-
gation ‘to really understand there must
be an orderly account of facts. This is
the place where the importance of the
preacher comes in. It is the object. of
the preacher to give facts and along with
these facts knowledge.

Another point in Luke's method was
an impartiality of facts. The Bible is
truth and truth can not change. We
must be true Christians to be real Chris-
tians; the Lord hates lukewarm ones.

is

Mere teachers in schools can not give
the ways of life. Mere learning is only
fragmentary. It is the preacher who
really brings the way of life to the peo-
ple out of the Bible.

Senators Learn

Columbus, O.—(CNA)—Senator V.
D. Emmons of Akron, will be a member
of a large party of junketing legislators
who will start on a trip January 31 to
the University of Michigan and Univer-
sity of Illinois to study the educational
systems and programs there. The chair-
man of the education committees of the

of his class. Berry is from Griffin, Ga.
He is a member of Theta Upsilon Omega
social fraternity and a reporter on the
Davidsonian. Hancock hails from Blue-
field, W. Va., and is a member of Kappa

Alpha social fraternity.

LONG TO EDIT

(Continued from page 1)

the Reporters’ Club, to the staff, be-
longing to Delta Pi Kappa, and also
a wearer of the Gilden Quill, and a

member of Alpha Phi Epsilon. His
home is in Surgeonsville, Tenn. He
is also a member of the Ministerial

Band. Pratt is from Louisville, Ky. He
was a managing editor of The David-
sonian, former member of the Re-
porters’ Club, member of Delta Pi
Kappa, and of Sigma Upsilon, a wear-
er of the Golden Quill, and a member
of the Annual and Magazine staffs.
He was elected second vice-president
of the N.C. C. P. A. last spring. He
is a member of the Phi Delta Theta
social fraternity. Jarratt is also one
of the former managing editors of the
Davidsonian. A wearer of the Golden
Quill, member of Delta Pi Kappa, and
of Sigma Upsilon. He was a member
of the Reporters’ Club before his ap-
pointment to the staff. In addition to
serving on the staff of the Davidson-
ian Jarratt is also one of the members
of the Chameleon staff.
in San Antonio, Texas.
ber of the Phi Gamma
fraternity,

His home is
He is a mem-
Delta social

LITERARY SOCIETIES

Eumenean

The feature of the program of the
Eumeneam Society ‘at its regular meet-
ing on the night of March 5, was a talk
by Col. Scott on the “Peace Time Work
of the Army.” Dick Flynn read a story
about “Fast Fertilizer.” Upon the com-
pletion of the program refreshments. were
served to those present,

Philanthropic

The program of the Philanthropic So-
ciety was devoted to the installation of
its third-term officers. After this, as
there was some time left, Frank Hall
gave a sketch of the “Life and Work of
Sidfiey Lanier.”

House and Senate, the chairman and vice-
chairman of the two finance committees,
Allan G. Aigler, floor leader of the Sen-
ate; Speaker O, C. Gray and Lieut. Gov.
John T. Brown also will make the trip.
The trip is to be financed by Ohio State
University.

“U-Push ’Em Anywhere
We'll See They Get There”

Cars to Rent
Special Rates for Long Trips

HENDERSON AUTO CO.
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Alumni Deaths

John McDowell, member cf the class
of 1881, died at his home on the York
road, near Charlotte, Saturday after-
noon, February 22nd, at the age of 70
years. Rev. J. M. Walker, '07, officiated
at the funeral the following day.

Mr. McDowell was born in 1859 and
entered Davidson from Charlotte in 1876.
He was a member of the Philanthropic
Literary Society while here. The length
of his stay at Davidson is not known,
but he did not graduate. He returned
to his old home near’ Charlotte, where
he remained until his death, taking a
prominent part in the community. He
was an elder in the Steele ‘Creek Presby-
terian Church for 40 years, and clerk of
the session for 30 years. He was at one
time a member of the County Board of
Education and had served as local school
committeeman.

Friends throughout the South re-
gretted to learn last week of the death

of Mr. Ben R. Lacy, Sr., honorary
alumnus of Davidson, and father of
Dr. Ben R. Lacy, ’06, of Richmond,

Va., and Dr. T. A. Lacy, '23, of Moy-
ock, N. C. Relatives of other David-
son alumni who have died recently were
C. R, Tuttle, brother of Dr. R: G.
Tuttle, ’09, (N. C. aoe College), of
Winston-Salem; E. White, father
of Ben Whitey~21, i Concord; and
John A. Hunter, brother of Dr. Wm.
B. Hunter, ’07, 6 Gastonia.

King Arthur: “Pray, what is that
horrible clanking?”

Page: “Please, sire, 'tis only Sir

Lancelot and the Queen on the parlor
sofa.”—Octapus.

Brown Bilt Shoe
Store

R. E. DeLapp, Mar.

Where Comfort, Style

and Economy Meet

MOORESDILLE,N.C.

ASTER GREETINGS

SEND CANDY--IT IS ALWAYS APPRECIATED

Drop in and Select From Our Supply
We Will Take Your Order For Flowers
WHITE DRUG COMPANY

MAKEOUR STO RE YOUR STORE
Sundries

Soda

