THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 31, 1929

Kim’s Kolunn |

Forecasting This Week’s Football

Half a dozen intersectional games provide
the sauce for the national football feast on
Saturday, but traditional rivalries furnish the
main entrees on the menu.

On a day when such games as Navy-Penn,

. Purdue-Wisconsion, Tulane-Georgia, Colum-
bia-Cornell and Dartmouth-Yale are avail-
able to tempt the football fan, only the
Notre Dame-Georgia Tech fray or the Chi-
cago-Princeton encounter, among  intersec-
tional battles, can offer much competition.

Notre Dame, fresh from victories over
Navy, Wisconsin and Cargegie Tech, with
Carideo, Elder and Brill is much improved
over last years team. Tech boasts a win over
Rockne’s blers last season, but. it ap-
pears that two in a row is too much to ex-
pect.

The Princeton Tiger, still fretful over last
week's tie with Navy, should experience little
difficulty in defeating Coach Stagg’s Chicago
Maroons.

The other intersectional games bring to-
gether Duke and Boston College; Carnegie
Tech and Washington University (St.
Louis) ; Florida and Harvard; Oglethrope
and Villanova and Army and ‘the University
of. South Dakota.

None of these, however, can hope to divert
much attention from the big domestic spec-
tacles, Beaten by Notre Dame and tied by
Princeton the Navy hopes to get going at the
expense of Pennsylvania, but their hopes
seem td lack any logical foundation. Penn
has only been beaten by California and re-
vealed a powerful offensive against V. P. I.
and Lehigh.

Purdue, the most outstanding team in the
Big Ten at the present time, is favored over
Wisconsin, although the Badgers are not to
be taken too lightly despite their failure to
score a single point in their last three games.

Tulane’s astonishing victory over Georgia
Tech served only to confirm what previously
had been something more than a slight sus-
Picion—namely, that to check ‘the Green
Wave one must stop Banker. There seems
tg exist considerable doubt’ that Georgia,
with its green line, can do either.

Gil Dobie’s Red Wave expects all sorts of
trouble from Columbia, although the latter
is not nearly so dangerous as they were a
couple of seasons back.

These games will prove attractive to count-
less fans, but the main spotlight of public
interest will be focused on the Yale Bowl
where a great Dartmouth eleven will seek
their first victory from Old Eli.

Yale, rated in pre-season dope, as one of
the outstanding teams in the East, decisively
beaten by Georgia ‘in an early season game,
came back to win over the strong Army
eleven in truly sensational style.

Dartmouth—unheralded and unsung, ‘with
staggering victories over Columbia and Har-
vard, and boasting the country’s leading
scorer in the person of All Marsters—now
looms as one of the outstanding contenders
for national championship honors.

Yale’s hope are none too bright, and even
though upsets» are quite frequent. on the
gridiron it is hardly probable that “Special
Delivery Al” and the Big Green .can be
stopped.

As I Pick ’Em

V. M. I. at Davidson.
Duke at BOSTON COLLEGE.
Holy Cross at BROWN.
CARNEGIE TECH at Washington’ Univ.
Columbia at CORNELL.
Wake Forest at FURMAN.
Georgetown at N. Y. U.
NOTRE DAME at Georgia Tech.
Florida at HARVARD.
Indiana at MINNESOTA.
Lafayette at W. & J.
N. C. State at UNIVERSITY OF N. C.
ILLINOIS at Northwestern.
Oglethorpe at VILLANOVA.
Ohio State at PITTSBURGH.
Penn State at SYRACUSE.
Chicago at PRINCETON.

, PURDUE at Wisconsin.
TULANE at Georgia.
ALABAMA at Vanderbilt.
UNIV. SO. CALIFORNIA at California.
Clemson at KENTUCKY.
Navy at UNIV. OF PENNSYLVANIA.
University of So. Dak. at ARMY.
Washington and Lee at V. P. I.

Would It Surprise You to Know
That—

Forrest F. Cole, of Dallas, Texas, who lost

a bet on the Wold’s Series, must knock

flies all the way from Dallas to Philadelphia.

Ernest Littrel, his betting opponent, must]:

* accompany him, furnishing a fungo bat and
balls. 3. They started October 15 and hope ‘to

Cheerleading Positions
Sought By Twenty Men

Eleven Sophomores and Nine Fresh-
men Among the Large Number
of Candidates

A call for cheerleaders has been issued by
McClenaghan and McAllister, and about
twenty men have responded, and are being
instructed by these two cheerleaders.

The aspiring cheerleaders will get their
practice at the Freshman games, where they
will act as cheerleaders until their Junior
year. At the beginning of their Junior, year
an election will be held to choose the two
men that the student body thinks deserve the
honor of being assistant cheerleaders.

The new men are taking a great deal of
interest in this work, and if it continues the
Freshmen will doa great deal of yelling at
their games. The first opportunity for these
new cheerleaders to show their ware will
probably be when the Freshmen play the
State Freshmen.

Those who have responded to this call are:
H. M. McKinnon, Rosser Elkins, R. D.
Powell, W. H. Matthews, R. L. Torrence,
FE. L: Gorham, R. P. Davis, J. G. Hughes,
J. T. Welsh, D. G. Stephenson, H. L. Carr,
S. J. Bryant, T. A. Bryant, C. F. Myers, N.
M. Caldwell, J. E. Lake, D, S. Currie, Nor-
man Raies, B. B. Sugg, and J. A. Bagby.

Halverstadt Takes

Tennis Tournament

A. N. Halverstadt won the Fall Tennis
Tourney by defeating E. Z. DuBose in the
finals 6-3; 6-4, 6-2. Halverstadt defeated Poe
in the semi-finals while DuBose was dis-
posing of Captain’ Johnston.

The first two sets of the finals match were
played on Tuesday afternoon and the final
set was played Wednesday. Bothe played
steady tennis and took few chances and the
mateh was much closer than the score indi-
cates. :

Haverstadt played No. 3 on the varsity
last season and was outstanding. He ‘also
displayed fine tennis during the summer sea-
son and should turn in wins in most of his
matches this season. :

DuBose was No. 1 and Captain.,of last
year’s Freshman team and was easily the
best in the class. He also showed up well in
summer tournament play and is expected to
take the place vacated by J. T. Roddey, last
year’s Varsity captain.

———_<_$_$<_$_$_$<_$_<_$<_$_$_$_$__$_$

be in Philly by February 1.—Despite the
slight’ variation in one name from the famous
original, Coach Lipe of Marquette Univer-
sity always has to suppress a snicker from
his players when he orders “Gallagher and
Sheehan” to go into-the backfield.—McCau-
ley McEver, of V. P. I. and Gene McEver,
of Tennessee, are brothers.—Carlston, Penn
halfback, who returned a kickoff 96 yards for
the Quakers’ first 1929 touchdown, counted
five touchdowns after receiving kicks in the
Cornell-Penn frosh game last year.—And his
brother, Earle, booted Columbia’s first 1929
field goal.—Paul Schissler, Oregon Aggie’s
mentor, has given assistant coaching jobs to
four men who starred for him at Lombard
College. — Cannonball Clyde Crabtree and
Royce Goodbreed, Florida’s star halfbacks,
plan to take up aviation next year—Wiscon-
sin’s ‘captain, John Parks, sells dance pro-
grams, writes newspapers articles, and waits
on tables for college education funds.—Presi-

oh bi Hoover met the California team just

rior to the Pennsylvania game.—Bo Cuis-
ner, Wisconsin’s 1928 star, is head backfield
coach there now.—West Virginia’s captain
is “Sleepy” Glenn.

Reports Are Issued

The first reports of the year were
received by students Wednesday,
October 30. At ‘the same time, dup-
licates were sent to parents or
guardians. These reports cover six
weeks’ work, based on the monthly 8
reviews and daily recitations. Mid-
semester reports are issued at
Thanksgiving, .while the final re-
ports of the semester will be re-
ceived in January.

Literary Societies
In Active Sessions

Election of New Officers for Second
Term Features Philanthropic
Meeting

The regular meeting of the Philanthropic

Literary Society, which was held on Tues-
day, October 22, was a very important one,
as it was at this time that new officers were
elected. The regular program of the society
was not adhered to, since the whole time
was occupied by the election. The incoming
officers are as follows: Frank S. Erwin,
president; €. E. Kraemer, vice-president;
H. W. Ryburn secretary; H. E. Russell,
first critic; W. T. Ratchford, second critic;
T. E. Moody, first supervisor; E. E. Shore,
second supervisor.
, The meetings are usually held on Tuesday,
but the meeting was not held this week in
courtesy to Dr. Sam Glasgow who was con-
ducting evangelistic services.

At the next regular scheduled meeting on
November 5, a debate will be held which
should be of interest to every Davidson stu-
dent. The question is “Resolved that David-
son College Should be Co-educational.” The
affirmative will be upheld by E. H. Coker
and H. E. Russell.

Literary societies have always played a
large part in student life at Davidson, and
they hope that interest will not lag when
such a topic as this is being discussed. Every-
one is cordially invited, and it is desired that
there be a large attendance.

At the last meeting of the Eumenean Lit-
erary’ Society on October 22, two interesting
talks made up the program. Norman Raies
gave some current events, while Mr. Wil-
liams gave a feature article.

Inter-Class Track Meet
To Begin November 14

Next Monday, November 4, the annual
inter-class track meet will begin and continue
through the entire week. Each of the four
classes will be represented by a team selected
from the entire class so that unlike other
inter-class sports, varsity letter men will be
eligible for participation in track. However,
only three men from a class will be allowed
in each event. .

To the winners three distinct and very
handsome trophies will be given and after
winning any one of these for three consecu-
tive years, the class may retain it permanent-
ly. It is hoped that every student of even
slight ability will report to defend the honor
of his class, Captain Pritchett, assisted by
Heath Whittle, will be in charge of the
meet. ’

The “As You Like It” Club will meet at
the home of Mrs. J. M. Douglas Friday
afternoon. Mr. T. W. Lingle will give a lec-
ture on her trip abroad which she had this
summer.

Mooresville Scouts
Defeat Local Troop

The Davidson Scouts played the Moores-
ville Scouts last Friday on Richardson Feld.
A hard fought game was played by both
teams, but due to the fact that Mooresville
had a much heavier team, they carried away
a twelve to six victory over the Davidson
Eleven. This was the first defeat the David-
son Scouts have met during the season.

The Davidson Eleven put up a gallant
fight and threatened to score several times ;
but each time they were driven back, until
E. Slaughter plunged around the end for
their touchdown. They failed to get their
extra point because the team was lacking
in having an “educated toe.” Carlye Lewis,
quarterback and captain of the team also
made several plays that are worthy of men-
tion.

Heath Whittle, scout master of the boys,
has several games scheduled for the season.
Sometime in the near future they expect to
play Rock Hill and then Statesville. They
are going to Barium Springs November 12
to play the scouts of that city. This is ex-
pected to be a close game. :

WILDKITTENS TO PLAY

(Continued from Page 1)
the records of the elevens this year point to
a hotly-contested struggle tomorrow.
The following is the probable line-up of
the two teams:

Davidson Position State
Biétce; setae seoee 16) Dy ee yee Duke
McFayden ---.--- LT vesevessuctes Cobb
Ogden -- SG iE wesuscuss Martin
Gardner (C) --- Center ----------- Espey
Bittle sco sscsececs RG eaves Matlock
Wagoner ------.-- RE eussescses Stroupe
Barrier: ooo cScecce Ribiesesoeeses Gurneau
GARE! soos BBS seeaeae Comiskey
Mill §ieseeeecoceses RA oes scess Waddell
Cavan oowessegoces BH osssccesd Goodman
Pearc@iscceeccuces OB. 2225252585 Kavell

Town News

Mrs. Frazer Hood has as’ her guest Miss
Wagner’ from Water. Valley, Mississippi.
Miss Wagner and Miss Kalista Hood will
leave in a few days on a motor trip to Cali-
fornia.

Miss Jane Leighton Richards and Miss
Eva Buchanan from Converse College were
the week-end guests of Dr. and Mrs. C. M.
Richards.

Mrs. E. J. Erwin has had as her guest
for several months her mother, Mrs. Brown,
who has returned to her home in Atlanta.

The Sorosis club will meet Saturday night
at the home of Mrs. N. T. Smith. <

Mrs. Crawford, mother of Mrs. S. 6G,
Lyon, is visiting here. '

Prof. J. P. Williams and Mr. F. L. Jack-
son went to Raleigh on business last week.

The American history class of Davidson
High School went to the Kings Mountain
battlefield Monday. c

Misses Dorothy Finlayson and Louise
Thompson spent the week-end with the girls
from Davidson who attend N. C. C. W.

The “Eta Bita Pi Club” will meet Thurs-
day night at the home of Mrs. J. R. Caldwell.

Dr. C. M. Richards is teaching a class in
the Teachers Training School which is being
held at the Second Presbyterian Church of
Charlotte the first six days of this week.

Mrs, Sloan is at Dr. Long’s Sanitarium in
Statesville for treatment and an operation.

DAVIDSON-WAKE
FOREST SUMMARY
First downs ------ 5 10
Ground gained from
scrimmage ~----- 106 yds 183 yds
Ground gained from
passes) oun ecee-> 36 yds 8 yds
Passes attempted-- 15 3
“ Passes completed--- 4 2
Passes intercepted-. 0 1
Average length punts ‘
and kickoffs ----- 34 yds 37 yds
Penalties ~-------- 20 yds 25 yds

FELLOWS!

You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at

Henderson’s Filling Station
DAVIDSON, N° C.

mae

“VOILA!”

A stiff exam, a round o’ gym,

Demand your vigor, verve and vim;
Ambitious studes must keep in trim:
Eat LANCE’S foods—get in the swim:
“Excel, sir!”

MAKE THIS STORE YOUR HEADQUARTERS
STUDENT SUPPLIES OF.ALL KINDS
NEW RECORDS EVERY WEEK

W.S. HENDERSON

“DRUGS”

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

PAPER

On pound (60 Sheets) College seal with package
envelopes

98c

Make our store your store

White Drug Company

“SODA”

“SUNDRIES”

STIC

way. Within one week
them. |

STIC

We have a new pattern Davidson Sticker on the

Students’ Store

“It’s Yours, Why Not Patronize It?”

KERS

there will be plenty of

KERS

