2

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 21, 1929

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
iegiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
anaging Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

ZEB V. LONG, Editor-in-Chi
fH Moons Jr. ditor-in-Chief

EDITORIAL STAFF °

J. B. BLACK. pepe Managing Editor
i We: sAOGUTCOHAN) cc cls cccelesiceicas aes Managing Editor

PAG RAGING Saeea oe erie a Managing Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN.. ..--.-Athletic Editor
J. F. PRESTON... ----Feature Editor
J. L. BROW Nees 2c 55 ooo Ae Soa Feature Editor
R. F. JARRATT._.. ------Associate Editor
F. D. MILLER ‘oes Associate Editor
CoOMIGPRAT TT scuceaubise Associate Editor
S==—_——————————

}: Asst. Bus. Mgr.

ie Subscription Mgr.
POM CONTA ror i oon omronenceen once ne nmencnees Solicitor
j ; oe Solicitor

}: 3 a aac
* AUP ON ININ Sueaace dns etn cabnuuNouosegusuiauswuctaaeenee olicitor

J. fs WU Raeesuuousccauscaeai us (soe eiae in aro Raaae Solicitor

Jes Die SHVIER Geos Raed eaare nee areas Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB

A i HEEFNER peaubuateLasdoyucuve President
fy (o}, SUN beens Vice-President

}: Vv. D. MIDDLETON Secretary-Treasurer
SRE ews fs

B. Ke MARTIN Wwe ae
.R. Cc. W. F.

D. 0. STEPHENSON W.T: HANCOOK

Cy ef ROnRRUEAD JOHN M. BROWN

ee Bice. G. P. PARDINGTON
WITT, R. E DWELLE Ne aE

BIRD, A x” VELLE, E, C.

——< es

NOVEMBER 21, 1929

THE DAVIDSONIAN

—Looks back at Home-Coming as a splendid suc-
cess despite the weather and a football game lost.

—Gives all honor and praise to a fighting Wildcat
eleven, the gamest team we've ever seen.

—Congratulates Captain Thad Brock for the finest

exhibition of football ofthe current season.

—Saw a powerful Wildkitten team stage an old-

time comeback against Wofford, and hails the
Kittens as comers.

Feels that Doctor Lingle's declaration of David-

son's ideals will strike responsive chords in
Davidson supporters everywhere.
—Hopes every student will read Dan Poling’s defi-

hition of war as given by Edwar Woods at “Y”
Sunday evening.

—Wishes luck to the little Cats as they meet the
Duke Blue Imps tomorrow in Durham.

—Watches mid-term pass and remembers the value
of hard work till Christmas. -

DAVIDSON'S IDEALS

In was with a sense of deep pleasure that we
heard the statement of Davidson’s new presi-
dent last Saturday morning as he addressed
the alumni of the institution for the first time
as a body, and advanced to them his hopes for
the growth and efficiency of Davidson. Doctor
Lingle stated that he was trying to set forth his
ideals for the college, and he asked the co-
operation of all alumni. and students in his
work ahead. He stressed the brotherhood of
all Davidson men, likening the college with all
Its supporters to one great family, each part of
weir must contribute to the welfare of the
whole.

. It seems to us that the things discussed by

/ Doctor Lingle are the most essential problems

-

in the life not only of Davidson, but of every

‘college and university. They are all things

which cannot be settled once and for all by a
single stroke of some efficient hand, nor are
they things which will eventually drop out of
the scheme of college life. Every one of them
stands out as a constant companion to the
growing institution. For that reason they are
vital, and will not brook delay in the attention
given them. As Doctor Lingle said, “The com-
plete college is a dead college.” There must
be no pause in constructive work whatever its
nature by the ever present tendency to rest on
hard won laurels and be content. The survival
of a college in its finest form depends strictly

upon vision coupled with ‘willing hands and -

hearts.
It is to these willing hands and hearts that

’ Davidson is appealing today for greater inter-

est and active support than ever before. The
¢hallenge sounded by the president must be
accepted by every thinking son of the college
and taken as a personal call to the side of serv-
ice, to greater loyalty. We believe that. David-
son waits at the threshold of her greatest day,
day replete with accomplishment, with honor

for her and for the standards which she proudly

extends to young men every where. The re-
sponse will come becayse the spirit of the work

is too living a thing to die away. Its call is ever
with us.

Statement that the college proposes to work
out a plan of support for its alumni office is
most cheering, especially to those who know

something of the tremendous value of this or- |

ganization to the general welfare and good
spirit of the college. We feel that too’ much
emphasis cannot be laid on the work of keep-
ing contacts alive and warm between alumni
and actives, It should mean more to a man than
just a diploma when he completes his course at
a great college. It should mean the establish-
ment of a base from which he need never break
away. The alumni office is the means of seal-
ing men to their college, not only in spirit but
in person.

Then it is evident that concept of physical
training in its true sense would be the means
of insuring a more perfect college in every
way. Many problems which vex alumni and
students as well would eventually be eliminated
through the steady practice of a complete pro-
gram of physical education. Sound mind in a
sound body—a wonderful goal to aim for, and
a necessary goal if the college is to give the
best possible equipment for future life ‘to her
student sons.

Some people may have been surprised to hear
Doctor Lingle touch upon what he calls “social
culture.” The idea is fairly prevalent that
Davidson has always stood for the very acme
of culture and social grace. So it has, and so
it does in comparison with many of our educa-
tional institutions, but the point is that there
is never a stopping place. The way of life and
modes of conduct are changing with every
passing hour, and no man can afford to classify
himself among the perfect. We all need every
touch of grace we can lay our hands on, grace
in our dealings with each other, in our contacts
with the world outside, grace, too, in our think-
ing. It’s an endless process, but the most worth-
while one in the world. Practically speaking,
in spite of Davidson’s fine old democratic atti-
tude, there is a crying need here for more social
life of a definite nature, and keen observers of
student life are not slow to discern this fact.
Here, then, comes the idea of a great social
center building, a student proposition, a true
center of student life,

Church building and infirmary building were
also laid before the alumni as outstanding needs
of Davidson, and the hope was advanced that
early days will find both projects under way.

“Educated, cultured, Christian manhood:”

For Davidson, for You, for the service of man-
kind.

a
THOSE WILDCATS

We want the world to know that Davidson
is wrapped up in her football team, the most
courageous eleven we've ever seen go down
under a kickoff. The sport writers around the
country are always slow to rate the Wildcats
before the season gets under way. Someday
perhaps they will learn from the start that it
means a lot to call eleven men a Davidson foot-
ball team. It usually means the difference be-
tween victory and defeat, or between being
defeated and being whipped. Davidson is never
outfought. She can take lickings and still leave
everybody praising her to the skies. She de-
pends on something besides cold cash and fran-
tic alumni.

Carolina brought a splendid team to Richard-
son Field last week. It was just as good as they
said it was, and that team’s victory was well
deserved, if not by the actual score obtained.
Davidson’s game was a revelation and a tonic
to the crowd. They saw a team go out there and
come so close to accomplishing a hopeless task
that even Carolina was forced to go back on
her claims that all the Tar Heel teams are of
equal strength. And we are afraid that Turkey
Day is going to be anything but pleasing to
Duke’s globe-trotters. The ’Cats are going to
be mighty hard to hold, and they will be holding
the opposing team until it hurts.

Yes, congratulations to Chuck Collins, John-
ny Branch and all the rest of boy,s but here go
our hands to Monk Younger’s boys—David-
son’s own.

The mayor of Lynn, Mass., has forbid any girl
over 12 years old to appear on the streets ex-
posing her knees, ‘dimpled or otherwise.” We sus-
pect he has seen too many of the “otherwise.”

Speaking of Mr. Shearer, it is hard to say which
is more oppressive, his patriotic heat or his hu-
mility.

“It tickles” cried-the king.

“What tickles?” asked the queen.

“Spectacles” giggled the king, and the joke was
on the queen,

“The jig is up” said the doctor as the patient
with St. Vitus dance died.—Kitty Kat.

“No,. old dear,” replied the arrot, “I have
dined copiously. Got a cigarette about you?’—
Brown Bull.

Cosmic Chaos
J. W. McCutchan

Despite rabid protests of the Cannonites, Virginia
declared herself unitedly Democratic, on Novem-
ber 5. Pollard was elected governor, of the Old
Dominion by one of the greatest majorities ever
accorded any nominee. Pre-election statements by
the Anti-Smiths prophesied a definite rejection of
the Democratic machine. Refusing to receive the
propaganda that moral or national machine ques-
tion was at stake, the voters. rallied to the cause
that has given Virginia a countless number of
splendid men. It appears that the South fooled the
Democrats as regards the national election, and it
is the privilege of the G. O. P. to get the laugh,
now.

“Twelve Die in Mexican Election Sunday,” is
the headline which appears on the front of a
prominent daily newspaper. The mixture of
high-strung Castilian blue-blood with pagan
selfishness is not one which tends to be politi-
cally secure. Rubio was chosen to fill out the
unexpired term of Alvaro Obregon, assassi-
nated. One cannot help but wonder how long
the new leader will last. The policy of Im-
perialism has never been tolerated, especially
in the New World, but there are many colonies
which enjoy a far more peaceful existence than
does the Republic of Mexico. The rebellious
Aztec spirit survives.

Great Britain refuses to recognize or heed a
naval parity with the United States or any other
nation. She is wise! The expense or waste, as the
case may be, necessary to obtain an equal ratio
has no rival which is as creative of war. It will
never be possible to gain a ratio satisfactory or
just to the countries concerned. Great Britain, with
her imports and extensive colonization, undoubted-
ly has need of a much larger naval force than does
the United States. President Hoover, active in
World Peace movements, sensibly recognizes the
need for a sensible, non-extravagant system of
National Defense. America does not need an equal
number of cruiser on the high seas as long as she
has the resources with which to construct them,
and the men with which to man them. Strong and
sensible National Defense is the chief reason for
an Army and Navy Reserve. Reserve Officers’
Training Corps Units have strong justification.

There is a saying that a “human interest
story” always touches a responsive cord. Some
readers will be interested in the true story of

a man who committed suicide at his business

house upon hearing the fire alarm sounded for

the ward in which His family lived. Due to no

possible fault of his, this man had lost a wife

and three children by fire. He later married
again, and this second wife was also burned to
death. Three of his children continued to live
at his home, which had been rebuilt. Two min-
utes before he killed himself the warning bell
had sounded. It was the signal that the fire
was in his block. Perhaps age-old conception
of superstitious fate and remorse accounted
for his“ action.

Vitaphone has produced a masterpiece in “Dis-
raeli.” It is not recommended particularly for the
stage settings, the concise dialogue, the interest-
ing plot, but chiefly for the recollection of the
most intriguing figure in all diplomatic actions of
his day. Fighting tenaciously, he succeeded in
making a name for himself in a country which
hated his race. He was a Jew.

Among other things this column would like:

First, to be read by someone.

To feel some heat in the radiators at 8:30
a. m.

To be constitutional and yet original.

To be appointed as a committee to investi-
gate the Senate.

Lastly, to publish something before it has .
happened, be pungent, witty, and possibly—

P. S. To contribute an affective thought.

You may mean the world to your mother but
you're just a grain of sand to me.

Betty: “Is the editor of the school paper par-
ticular?” ;

Helen: “Rather. She raves if she even finds a
period upside down.”

Miss H.: “Miss Wolfe, what races of people have
black eyes?”
Miss Wolf: “Shieks and prize-fighters.”

Life Guard: “Here is your boy. I saved his life.”
Father: “So you saved my boy’s life, heh?”
L. F.: “Yes.” ‘

Father: “Vell, vere iss his cap?”

Coed: “Did I show you the place where I hurt
my hip?” :

Ed: “N-no.”

Coed: “O. K., we'll drive over there.”

- Smokehouse Saga

By W. C. Ragin
(Published Weakly)

It has been whispered about the campus that
several of the less fortunate students at David-
son are bothered by those insidious little
beasties—mice. Of course, this statement is
doubtless false, but it might be a good idea to
give these men a few helpful hints on getting
rid of these pests in case they should ever be ,
attacked by the aforesaid rodents. Now, mice
aren’t very objectionable when they lead a
normal quiet life of a well behaved mouse, but
when they choose the wee small hours of the
morning to amuse themselves by dragging
trunks, desks, or what have you about the
room, it is only natural that the other inmates
of the room should entertain the thought of
chucking the mouse out on his proverbial ear
in the cold, cruel world. But how can you do
it? Ah, lend an ear, gentle reader, lend an ear.

Thanks for the loan, buddy.

Of Getting Rid of, Mice :

1. Set a trap and label “Wet Paint.” Mouse will
test trap to see if paint really is wet and be_
caught, and fooled too( because the paint wasn’t
wet after all).

2. Sing “Sonny Boy”. to mouse. Mouse will com-
mit hari-kari.

3. Tell mouse the joke about “that wasn’t no
lady, that was my wife.’ Mouse will run amuck,
be bogged in muck, and starve to death.

4. Confine mouse’s girl friend so that she can’t
keep her date. Mouse will become dejected and go
off to Africa to shoot lions. :

5. Tell mouse about famous Wildcat fight Spirit.
Mouse will work .himself into a frenzy. Throttle
mouse while is frenzied with you.

6. Spray mouse with alcdhol. Mouse will re-
ceive summons from Student Council and) die of
humiliation.

7. Feed mouse tripe. Mouse will become full of
tripe and attempt to write a column. Will be
squelched by the Editor. (He’s just the tripe that
would).

8. Chop off mouse’s tail up to his neck. Mouse
will die of exposure.

9. Run pipes from Davidson’s steam heating
plant through mouse’s home. Mouse will become
inured to frigid climate and go on a polar explora-
tion tour. Will be lost in frozen wastes.

10. Tell mouse that the eyes of Texas are upon
him. Mouse will become self-conscious and flee.
Spray flea with Flit. ,

11. Tell mouse about his wonderful possibilities.
Mouse will become fired with ambition. Sweep up
ashes in dust-pan.

12. Tell mouse he is a squirrel. Mouse will eat
nuts. Mouse will think he is the nuts. Mouse will
go nuts, Confine mouse i na padded cell.

13, Tell mouse how cat killed his parents. Mouse
will rush out to wreak vengeance. Mouse will be
found dead in the wreckage.

14. Croon “Mouse, mouse, come out of your
hole.” Fool mouse when he appears and shoot
with a double-barrelled shot gun. Remove mouse
with absorbent cotton and a medicine dropper.

15. Show mouse a Senior’ in his new blazer.
Mouse will become hysterical and will be unable to
snap out of it. Bury.

16. Tie one end of a stout cord around mouse’s
neck and other end around a brick. Tease mouse
until he becomes infuriated and heaves brick. Lock
your door as he follows the brick out.

17. Grease mouse well with Stacomb and part
in the middle with an axe.

18. Tell mouse he is a frog. Mouse will croak.

19, Leave school,

Tim: “Did you hear about the man who swal-
lowed his spoon?”

Jim: “No, what happened to him?”

Tim: “Oh, he can’t stir.”

He:“See that man playing fullback? He'll be
our best man in about a week.”
She: “Oh, this is so sudden.”—Awgwan.

Wigg: “I just finished setting a trap for my
wife.”

Wagg: “My goodness “What do you expect?”

Wigg: “A mouse in the pantry.”—Washington
University Dirge.

The flapper co-ed went to the young Prof. and
said: “Profy, dear, what are my marks?”’

He put his arm around her very gently and
whispered sweet little nothings in her ear—Wasp.

She: “I’ll never forget the time you asked me to
marry you. You acted like a perfect fool.”
He: “That wasn’t acting, dear.’—Wampus.

Art: “Mary told me she worshipped her figure.”
Dave: “And what did you say?”
Art: “Nothing. I embraced her religion.’—Ex,

English Prof.: “What do you think of Beo-
wulf?”

Martha Anthony: “Oh, I’m dreadfully scared of
animals.”—Jester,
