Page Six

ee

THE DAVIDSONIAN

April 11, 1929

—————————
————

Yes, but man has done pretty well

She—Oh, these awful week nights.

Junior—Never mind, just comb your

Old Lady—Are you sure this is a real} “You're foolish,” said the ankle to le’s Tight Like That ate hair. different and the bump won't
Athletic Schedule alligator ? the knee, A Scotchman living on the outskirts | for himself. ee
O'Brian—Yis mam. shot that one “To act so doggone flip, of Chicago became engaged to a girl

In the Devilish 'Nineties

Athletic events in which Davidson will] mesilf. For you'll be forgot like me, who got so fat that he wanted to break ee Bur they're wonderful nights to| Dorothy, those men are resting siatit
take part for the rest of the season are] Old Lady—It logXs a bit rubbed right} When they begin to show the hip.” | off the engagement. — But ey re me eae ) sche
as follows: here. couldn't get the ring off, so he had to Fes Well, Elizabeth, if they walk away

April 10—Wofford, here.
vows Apsil.12—Washingtonand Jer,at Geax:
ington.
April t3—V. M. I. at Lexington.
April 15—V. M. I. at Lexington.
April 16—V. P. I. at Blackburg.
April 17—University of Virginia,
Charlottesville.
April 22—Elon, here.

at

Sheik—Could you live on twenty [ny bone,
April 25—Duke University, at Durham. | all I remember, except that when I came} “yank’? Dorset thinks the booze aie ie CREE E nee = ae a
April 26—State, at Raleigh. to we were all in caps and gowns and rings he hears about are the rings he Hippel vey. Halt ab iene —
May 3—Oglethorpe University, here. | someone handed me a diploma and I was] sees under the flapper’s eyes. s We |
May 4—Oglethorpe University, here. graduating.” Gabi, Cleaning Pressing

May 8&—Guilford College, here.
Fresh Baseball—
April 11—Campbell College, here.

April 12—Statesville High, here. 3 Peet ‘ concentric pipes, one carrying the va- Newton must be wrong then: |

April 16—Statesville High, at States- Here's a penny of it I found. por and the other water. Can you tell Dan LaFar, Rep.
; : Sera shih: té » inside? ; ‘ i eee |
Vie ; i Guest (Entering hotel with dog)—May ie 9 Ses a When a girl tells you she is differ- 111 Watts

April 17—Rutherford College, here. : : i ; . r itch—The smaller. ent, you know she’s not.

April 19—Blue Ridge Institute, here I keep my dog in my room with me? 5

April 19— foe , : ate rer—Is it a shaggy dog? ; ; ‘ : Saree Te 4 . i

April 23—Duke Fresh, at Durham, | Hotel Manager—Is it'a shaggy dog? | Why did you give up your pipe-or-| 154 you know the jackknife dive? Dyeing Altering

April 24—State Fresh, at Raleigh. Arai ee NM CIONS gan lessons? Brother, there ain't a night club in

April 23—Wake Forest Fresh, at Wake

; Svery time ciss Vi fe town I ain't been to. watwace pe ii cane ee te
Forest Him—Every time I kiss you I fell with my feet.
ah better.
’ 30—Belmont Abbey, there. F They +3 Ce ‘ es eause
Behe 7 ie det ue Her—Well, don’t try to become an , They boys . _ her Pearl because
arsity Track Ye she’s so easy to string.
April 12 3 ‘a 13—Tech Relays, at At-| angel all at once. Ashes to ashes, a ee 8
April le and lo—lec Nelays, at Gin to gin— és é See ;
ae 1 20—Ci , Prof. Brearly—How long could a per-| If I knew when to stop ae Ae ners ee S [ A l O N iB
, 20—Clemson, here. : ree ; j : Sat She—Do what?
i seal saa oh son live without brains. 1 wouldn't begin. : : , ; ‘
April 27—V. M. I at Lexington. He—Do others before they're done’

May3 and 4+—State meet. at Greens-
boro.
May 9—High Point College, here.

at 5 —— se he was afraid she'd tiv thell} ENGRADED PERSONAL CARDS
Ane — ‘ba Coll here tation marks at the first_and last of your : ae cause he was afraid she'd tip the
April 9—Catawba College, here. paper ? Doctor — Where shall I vaccinate | scales.
April 15—Statesville High, here. ts : Pd you? mes
$4 64 F Ses Cadet—I was quoting the man in front] ?""* i ?
gia tee STR f ay eee Modern Girl — Oh, anywhere; it's Young—I've learned my lesson. I
Gold ie ee

April 11—Duke, at Greensboro.

April 12—Carolina, at Greensboro.

April 13—N. C. Intercollegiate Tour-
nament, at Greensboro.

April 17—Washington and
Charlotte.

Carolina, date undecided.

Varsity Tennis
April to—Furman College, here.

Lee, at

April 12—Erskine College, here. guys—It is 4 o'clock and raining like ation. wants to talk about literature.

April 17-20—State Meet, at Chapel | hell!! I’m not interested in books either.
Hill. eee: ; See Charlotde, Nl. C.
: ; f ‘ ie ; T heard your son was an undertaker. :

April 22—Duke or Carolina, unde- The traveling salesman is now using Water is the best drink God ever

cided.
April 24—V. P. 1. at Blacksburg.
April 25—University of Virginia, at
Charlottesville. f
Spril 26—William and Mary, at Wil-

O'Brian—That’s where it struck the

groundawhen, it, fell out oat the, tree,
One College Man's Experience
(Told by Himself)

I remember my first. day at
college. I strolled across the campus,
proud to be a freshman. Some upper-
classman spotted me and hazed me. That's

“Well,

THE NEWEST
I lost a dollar bill yesterday.

Pap Timmerman—I don’t know. How

old are you?

Doctor Daniel—Why did you put quo-

Noise-—Knock-knock-knock.

Col. Faulkenberry—Who is it?

Rat (Wake-up orderly, a bit griped
for having to awake him every, morning)
—6 :30 o'clock, sir, and all.is fair.

Faulkenberry—The Lord and I know
it, you may go.

Rat—You and the Lord are two wise

listerine !
One—I've lost my new car.
Two—Why don't you report it to the
sheriff ?

Most of the girls of today are more
interesting tonight.

A golddigger isa girl wito thinks of
the sweet buy-and-buy.

Right!
Professor Fernow—Blitch, in a va-
por refrigerating system there are two

I felt so blooming childish, playing

Have you a college education?
Naw, I learned to hold my licker and
women when I was in the Navy.

bound to show.

Girl—How dare you come into my
room without knocking! I may have
undressed.

3ellboy—That's all right, lady, I al-
ways look in the key-hole first.

No man can go completely to the
dogs without a good deal of determin-

I thought you said he was a physician.
Not at all. I just said he .followed
the médical profession.

Heavy Stranger (returning to theatre

between acts)—Did I tread on

. your
liamsburg, " 5 :
April Ks a hmond Goll One—Hejs the one who took it. toes as we went out?
f 27—hkich N1¢ gre q 2 . : ; ; i.
i Bi a t ollege, at} posse Seated Man (grimly)—You did, Sir!
ic ; s a
; : +“ c. ; | -o’ was send- Heavy Stranger (to wife)—That's
April 29 — Hampden - Sydney, at rts uu UE sai Ue Gil ;

Hampden-Sydney.

. “So vas, George, but he oO ___
May 2 & 3—Wofford, here. ah ul ed Ueene: 8o ev :
5 better, Jack—I called on Mable last night,
May 5—Clemson, here. 1 ' :
Fresh pone = and [I wasn't any more than in-
“resn e J $ e
: “Now Horace, you must wear this {Side the door before her mother asked
May 4—Darlington, here. ie sey ed eaea
; : long underwear. my intentions. '
Prospective games: z ; Tal T ‘
“Heck, Mom, fellows don’t) wear John—That must have been embar-

Apri] 27—Duke.
May 11—Winston-Salem High.
Carolina.

ing me a chicken for Sunday dinner.”

them things anymore.”
“But Horace, what would you think
if T went without my undergarments?"
“I'd think you were a co-ed.”

right, Matilda, this is our place.

rassing.

Jack—Yes, but that’s not the worst
of it. Mable called from upstairs and
said, “That's not the one, Mother.”

Our drum and bugle corps is no —Ohio State Sun Dial. __
longer a thing to be scoffed at. They Rae aos “Brudder Perkins, yo’ been fightin’,
have offered a prize of five dollars to ani Patient: “I am continually dream- : Beane said the colored minister.
cadet. regardless of rank or sex, who|/i™& of girls running around in Yes, ah wez.”
can guess correctly, five times out of chemises.” “Dotti yo ‘member whut de good
ten, what call is being blown. They], Psychoanalyst—“Ah; slips that pass book sez ‘bout turnin’ de odder

have just recently adopted the motto:
“More and funnier calls” to entertain
the cadets. Few of the cadets appreciate
their success to this end. They use the

most modern methods available. Just the |

other day Captain “Mingoe” got a. set
of silver to accompany “Rat”
Ingles when he puts the cadets to sleep

chimes

: ape “th “Hy AY perils ” ? ° ° r
at eleven with Home Sweet Home — Who died by enforcing his right-of- |

or something that resembles it very! “His love is so touching.” way
closely. The Colonel suggested that the} «y. eS ee: a Biberves
closely. e Colo el uggested that the | Yes, he loves with a great deal of |He was right, dead right, as he sped |
State Champion Hog Caller be obtained feeeling.”—The Bison along

to assemble the cadets for their meals.
This would help the wonderful organiza-
tion immensely !—West Pointer.
Stewed—D' jew
Also—No.
Stewed—Then how do you know it's
me?

ever see me before?

|

in the night.”

He—"Can I take you home?”
She—"Sure, where do you'live?”
—Williams Purple Cow.
“Her bad habit
tramps in the woods.”
—South Dakota Wet Hen.

only was taking

“Why
tight?”

do you hug your girls so
“Because temperature increases with

pressure.” —South Dakota Wet Hen.

When a man finds he can’t read a
girl like a book he shelves her.

cheek?”

Yass, pahson, but he hit me on mah
nose, an’ Ah’s only got one.”

“A little bit goes a long way,” said
the sparrow as he pushed a pebble otf
the skyscraper.

Here lies the body of William Jay

But he is just as dead as if he had
had been dead wrong.

(calling on
that last
stuff I left to be analyzed?
Chemist—Bezht shtuff i ever an-
alyshed—Whoopee !"—Judge.

Gentleman
friend—How

chemist

is case

marry her.

How did she learn to undress so fast?

Playing strip poker at college for
four years.

Your face would make a clock stop.

Yes, and yours would make one run.

When you throw a match in the air
does it light?
Why no.

Then there's that Scotchman again,
he didn’t want his wife to weigh be-

am through with women.

Not So Young—And learned
mine. I'm through saying I'm through
with women.

I've

A girl is as strong as her weakest
moment.
(oak aD ON re ay
I don't care for Jim. Half the time
he wants to pet and the-other half he

made,

English Prof—Tell me two things
about John Milton.

Ruminating Frosh — Well, he got
married and he wrote “Paradise Lost.”
Then his wife died and he wrote “Par-
adise Regained.”

Frosh-—Ouch, I just bumped my fun-

we can sue them for breach of prom-
ise.

Great Guns! Bill, what makes that
girl shake so—cold or the St. Vitus
Dance?

Neither, she's the daughter of Hale
University’s greatest broken-field foot-
ball star!

ED LINKER

Printed and Embossed

Aubrey Brown

RoLiereun

Presbyterian Standard Publising Co.

of }
|

Mother (entering room)—Why Mabel! ;
Get right down from that young man's ; |
knees. $ - | :
ein DRGs on avidson eatre | Otn were emart 1Cipators
“Bo-Peep” Williams—Is this a first :
‘class restaurant ? | While Lincoln was freeing the s] i
ay e Siav
Waiter—Oh, yes, but we don’t mind | by war, McCormick by his eee a desl an Nise sana a! wee) ee ple:
’

serving you.
Hattie—Alice sold her love.
Cattie—Terrible.
Hattie—You don't understand; the dog
got the mange.

Oh, look boys, she’s stripped—

Monday and Tuesday

“REVENGE”
Dolores del Rio

Saturday

the reaper was freeing the farmers from

needless toil.

The telephone today is adding to man s
freedom by saving time and effort on a
scale unknown in earlier civilizations.

phone offers increasing opportunities to
men who look and plan ahead.*Workers
in the Bell System, whether in technical
or business activities, are constantly de-

veloping the vision into the fact of better
public service.

“RED SWORD”
Noah Berry and Olive Borden

COMING
“WILLIAM HAYNES
“A MAN’S MAN”

Now calm yourselves, my dears,
She’s driving her new car, '
And has merely stripped the gears.

BELL SYSTEM

A nation-wide system of inter-connecting telephones

You're young only once, but if you
work it right, once is: enough. \
‘How dare you swear before me,” cried

__an_ indignant lady. -
~ “Excuse me,” said the offender, “T
didn’t know you wanted to swear first.”

!

|

‘

