2

THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 26, 1929

Kittens Work Hard
For Initial Battle

After. two weeks of practice under the
guidance of Coach “Red” Laird, the
freshman football squad is beginning to
round into shape, and some predictions
are being made as to how the yearlings
will fare against the stiff schedule which
they will face this season. Laird is as non-
committal over the prospects as Coach
Monk generally is concerning the Var-
sity, but he seems to be generally opti-
mistic over their showing so far.

There is a great deal of competition in
the backfield for the punting and passing
assignments. Mills and McFie are con-
tending for both positions, and Clark has
also been hurling the pigskin in avery
satisfactory manner. McDonald has been
calling signals in a manner that sounds
good, and seems to have first lease on the
safety position. Other promising backs
are Cavon, Pearce, Beacham, Peabody,
Fleagle and Manson.

In the line, the following men have
been showing up well: Gregory, Macker-

ell, McConnell, Little, Bernard, Mauzy,
McFadyen, Mullins, Ogden, Pierce,
Brooks, Robinson, Cannon, McKiffen,

Gardner, and Barrier.

Scrimmages will be the assignment for
next as finishing touches will be put on
the squad in preparation for their hard
game with Oak Ridge a week from to-
morrow. Other games carded for the
Fresh team are as follows:

October 18—Wofford—Here.

October 25—Rutherford—There.

November 8—N. C. State—Here.

November 22—Duke—There,

ENGAGEMENTS MADE

(Continued-from page 1)
MacConnell’s work, and the other to Cap-
tain Pritchett’s department. With this chart
the ones in charge of the physical life of
Davidson can easily obtain an idea of the
advancement of the student and can care-
fully determine whether any defects have
been remedied.

In addition to the added number of exami-
nations all students will be required to take
a course in’ physical education this year.
Last session only the two upper classes were
in this department, particularly those who
were not enrolled in R. O. T. C. Since the
close of school last spring the old armory
has been changed into a building for physi-
cal training. Mats, parallel, horizontal, and
stall bars, weights, and other body- building
equipment has been installed. The classes
meet three times each week, on Monday,
Wednesday, and Friday, with Captain Prit-
chett in charge.

According to Captain Pritchett the only
students which will be exempted from this
course are those in R. O. T. C., the varsity
football squad, the fall track team, and pro-
bably the wrestlers.

CADET OFFICERS APPOINTED

(Continued from page 1)
Covington, J, L. Brock, B. M. Drake, H. F.
Bost, R. S. Hall; Company “B,” B. H.
Harris, A. R. Jackson, W. G. Sugg, H.
Mixson; Company “C,” J. L. Preston, C. E.
Kraemer, C. A. Sisson, B. R. Lowrance;
Company “D,” J. L. Smith, J. W. McCut-
chan, W. C. Thompson, J. L. ‘Seyerance.

GAMMON CITES PAUL
(Continued from page 1)
should strive to get from his college days
that which will best fit him for service
to his fellow man remembering the words
of the apostle Paul, “What things are gain
to me, those I count lost for Christ.”

Looks Fishy
A man gets up in the morning
From a mattress that’s advertised
And eats a great big breakfast
Made by makers wise;
He seats himself at the table
And eats advertised food
Drinks a cup of advertised tea,
And leaves in a pleasant mood;
He goes to his place of business,

"And it’s a strange thing to say,

If you solicit an advertisement,
He will argue, it doesn't pay.

There was a young fellow named Sid,
Who kissed a girl on the eyelid,
“She said, look here/ young lad,

I think your aim is pretty bad, »
You should pipetice awhile, so he‘ did.

~ Capt. Paget: “And where was Sheridan
when he took his twenty-mile ride?”

DETROIT TIGERS
VIEW CAT ACE

Buck Marrow, ace twirler of the David-
son Wildcats re-entered Davidson after
spending the last few weeks of the sum-
mer in company with the Detroit Tigers,
where he went after pitching a number
of games. for-the_Concord Weavers, who
have laid claim to the semi- pro baseball
title of North Carolina.

Marrow says that he has not signed a
contract with Detroit, but that he went to
the Michigan city to givethe higher-upsa
chance to look him over. He has stead-
fastly refused to place his name on the
dotted line, preferring to first complete
his college course. The Davidson pitcher
did not receive a call to the mound dur-
ing the time he was with Detroit.

Buck is a powerfully built hurler, stand-
ing six feet four, with 190 pounds to his
credit. He pitched some great games for
the Wildcats during the 1929 season, his
best performance being against Cornell,
which outfit he blanked in Grenesboro
while his teammates were chalking up a
quintet of counters,

Marrow is not the essence of consist-
ency, however, with two more years of
college experience, he should be ripe for
one of the national pastime pastures. A
number of the big league scouts have
been viewing his performances for two
years, and their reports at headquarters
have evidently been of a most favorable
tone.

FALL MAT TRAINING
STARTS IMMEDIATELY

Fall wrestling practice will begin some
time this week, according to Coach Til-
son, and will continue until about Thanks-
giving.

fhe six letter men who are back are:
Brock, Brown, Cowan, Warren, and Cap-
tain Christenbury. These men will form
the nucleus of the team.

Last year’s Freshman squad will fun
nish excellent material for the varsity
this year with Elkins, Grady, White,
Ashcraft, Conway, and Baker enrolled.

Practice will be held three nights a
week at the gymnasium. All men intend-
ing to go out for wrestling are urged to
attend these fall practices.

FAIR CROWD OUT
FOR FALL TRACK

Fall track started with a snap and
vigor this year under the leadership of
Captain Heath Whittle, in spite of the
fact that there are only forty-five upper-
classmen and twenty-five Freshmen who
have reported for practice,

There are several openings for good
track men and especially for any who
may wish to try their speed on the cinder-
path. The object of fall track is to build
up the body in preparation for the reg-
ular track season.

Heath Whittle. is coaching fall track
this year. The practices will be conducted
out of doors until colder weather, at
which time the men will report for prac-
tice in the gym.

This year, a cross-country team is to be
organized by Captain Pritchett. The team
will enter in only one meet. If it shows
up well, in all probability these boys -will
be sent to the State meet. Also it has
been arranged to have Davidson’s relay
team compete with the Tar Heel Quar-
tet between the halves of the Carolina
game on Home-Coming Day. However,
these plans can only be made real if
more of the student body both upper-
elassmen and Freshmen turn out for fall
practice. According to Whittle, there
ought to be about fifty more upper-class-
men and a third more as many Freshmen
reporting within the next few days.

DAVIDSON CATS TO
BATTLE CLEMSON

(Continued from page 1)

Davidson Position Weight
Brock (Capt.) ----. L.E. 158
Baker onc 25 22ers Jb 174
DeCamp .-------.- RG. 180
Mason -...-------. RG. 180
Masonic coscecescac C. 161
Mille} 220323 Soo eee RG 164
Raker! 02 |2 sce uoe RT, 174
Brown -----.----.-R.E. 167
McCall o-oo ce Q.B. 165
Brohard ~-..-.... -L.H. 168
Patrish-~—--socene L.H. 146
Fraley. uiccccssccane F.B. 172

“Auto Salesman: “Our cars no good?
Why we're selling them by the dozens!”
Prospect: “I’m not surprised — how

Cater: “On his horse.”

much are they a dozen?”

‘

DAVIDSON EX-MAYOR
DIES AT MONTREAT

Mr. Charles Harvey Hamilton, of Dav-
idson, N. C., died on August 22, while at
his summer home in Montreat. Mr. Ham-
ilton’s funeral was held at the Gilwood
Presbyterian Church on Sunday, Aug-
ust 24.

The deceased served several terms as
mayor of the town of Davidson, and it
was during his administration that sev-
eral municipal developments were launch-
ed and completed. Mr. Hamilton also
served as secretary-treasurer of the build-
ing and loan association, justice of the
peace, and was a successful farmer be-
fore coming to Davidson.

During his life Mr. Hamilton was an
ardent church worker, and he preferred
to remain with the smaller church at Gil-
wood rather than sever his connection
when he moved to Davidson. He taught
a Sunday School class, was an elder in the
church, and in many other ways demon-
strated his Christianity.

FACULTY TO HONOR
PRESIDENT
(Continued from page 1)

place in the handsome new faculty room on
the second floor of New Chambers Building,
and this lovely meeting place is expected to
furnish a correct setting for a most enjoyable
social gathering.

“Quadwranglers” refuse to divulge the
nature of their program for entertainment,
and the affair is shrouded in a thick coat
of mystery. Speculation is that the faculty
members and their ladies will spring a sur-
prise of some sort with which to initiate
Davidson’s new president into the ranks of
the “Quadwranglers.”. Following close on the
heels of other functions in honor of the
Lingles, tonight’s reception will be the facul-
ty’s own greeting to its new leader.

Important

The photographer from White's
Studio will be in Davidson October
7, to begin taking the pictures
for the 1930 “Quips and Cranks.”
The Business Manager, W. R. Hill,
requests that all students desiring
their pictures in the annual be pres-
ent at the studio in Elm Row at the
time of their appointments with the
photographer.

FRESH CLASS SHOWS
GOOD SCHOOL SPIRIT |

The Freshman Class started its college
career and class record well by putting up
the bleachers in record time, only taking
four days to do the work. For many years
the class has voluntarily done the work at
the suggestion of Coach Younger. This
year the Freshmen have shown a re-
markable spirit of co-operation in doing
the work.

The bleachers constructed will be suffi-
cient to last through the Citadel game /
which is to beplayed on October 19. Addi-
tional bleachers will be constructed at
the ends of the field to accommodate the
crowd for the V. M. I. game.

Stationer

poo ue and embossed

Best Quality and Prices

ANY TYPE OF PRINTING

Earnest H. McCall
108 Watts
Representing

Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

PUNCTHATE YOUR
DAY WITH

~ CameLs

Let Camels be the commas and periods g

in the page of your daily activity zach

Camel is a little interlude g a high-spot of

pleasure g with which to punctuate your

changing moods and thoughts &D It

baccos grown . .

adds so much & to the pleasure of

life to pausé now and then &) and say

to yourself G} time out for a Camel!

In Camel you get that extra measure of pleasure . . . be-
cause Camels are expertly blended from the choicest to-
- mild and mellow . . . cool and refreshing
. .. their fragrance is always pleasant, indoors and out
.-. and they do not tire the taste nor leave an after-taste.
