oso

N

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 238, 1929 -

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
oma Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
iT

ice, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

Editor-in-Chief
Business Manager

ZEB V. LONG, Jr...
E, H. McCALL

EDITORIAL STAFF

- B, BLACK Managing Editor
. W. McCUTCHAN Managing Editor

. C. RAGIN . ---Managing Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN Athletic Editor
J. F. PRESTON. Feature Editor
Yr L. BROWN ...___. ta Malad Feature Editor
. F. JARRATT. te Editor
F. D, MILLER A iate Editor
C. M. PRATT. Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

. A. CANNON. a -Asst. Bus. Mgr.
i L. BOYD fi -Subscription Mer
Ass) BARE Riecrns couustiuccier sees weee | eee eee Solicitor
if H MGRINNON Sci

¢) Sas SMECRINNON GS. onicncececucdececcdcecckeccceuncceuul Solicitor
i eo MANN mapery Solicitor
J. L. SEVIER a ie wpe 3131934
=_—_—_—_——NNaooooaaSEo————————————

REPORTERS’ CLUB

ES PHB BRNER Ysondre sig President
Witte GRA GING eerie scotss Pad feats ies cnvuc rg Vice-President
}: V. D. MIDDLETON ..__-___._........ Secretary-Treasurer
. G. BERRY C. G. PEPPER

C. MATTHEWS - G. DUNKLIN
G. MARTIN W. S. LEA
R. SMITH ‘ C. W. F. SPENCER

. O. STEPHENSON W. T. HANCOCK
A. H. WHITEHEAD JOHN M. BROWN
R. F.. NORTON G. P, PARDINGTON
fet J ed MATTHEWS, W. H,

BIRD! a WELLE, E. C.

NOVEMBER 28, 1929

THE DAVIDSONIAN

—Rejoices in this, another Thanksgiving Day, a
time to remember and to be humble.

—Reviews Davidson’s glorious past with satis-
factions; hails her future as a brilliant one.

—Has a hunch that they are going to surprise the
Blue Devils with a victory.

—Offers appreciation to the Seniors, playing their’
last game today, for their service to Davidson.

—Is beginning to get Christmas in its “bones.”

—Wonders how many men are satisfied with their
work of the fall.

—Would like to see the dormitories a little quieter
during study and resting hours.

WITH HEARTS SINCERE

Among the many holidays set aside by
the authorities for one reason and another,
no one meets the same requirements as does
Thanksgiving Day, nor has any other quite
the same hold upon our people. Although
the tendency of late seems to be for the
general public to center its Thanksgiving
Day in a football game, we are sure that the
guiding spirit of gratitude and of recogni-
tion of the blessings so evident in our daily
life has not lost its significance. Perhaps,
however, we all need to think a little more
about the spirit, and to carry it with us a
little longer than the alloted twenty-four
hours,

Since the first Thanksgiving Day, each
succeeding year has brought added cause for
the growth of hearts sincere. No nation of
people that we know anything about has
been so consistently favored as has the
American nation, The rude Plymouth church
has developed into the massive cathedral of
Saint John the Divine, the quaint military
company of Miles Standish has evolved into
a mighty army and navy, the simple school-
ing of the settler’s child finds its modern

day parallel in Harvard and Yale. It has in-
deed been a marvelous progress, and a prog-
ress which has exacted its toll in the blood
‘of the people. No wonder that a thankful
people went to their knees on that memor-

‘able Thanksgiving in 1918, But through the

years, through the trials of history making
events, America’s fortune has been that
of steady improvement. There has been no
retreat in her march, and of all people, her’s
have experienced power and happiness in
tremendous measures.

Let our happiness today be real. Let it
inspire us to visions of greater service to-
morrow. Let us set the spirit of Thanksgiv-
ing upon the pedestal of our ideals, and
make it live as we face the contacts of
friendship and the contacts of business. And
may hearts sincere everywhere turn today

_to Him, with “one increasing purpose,”
_Striving to know Him better.

DUKE TAKES LEAVE

The clash with Duke University’s Blue
Devils this afternoon marks a turning point
in Davidson’s athletic policy. For years
Duke has furnished opposition on Thanks-
giving Day, and the meeting of the two
teams has come to be an event in southern
football circles. The glamor naturally at-
tendant upon any Turkey Day game has
been greatly intensified as Wildcat and Blue
Devil, traditional rivals for more reasons
than one, have hooked up in thrilling en-
counters, with honors about even over a
period of years. Relations between the in-
stitutions have always been of the most sat-
isfactory sort, and it is with regret that we
note the replacement of- Duke by another
rival for next season’s game.

Duke will probably engage Washington
and Lee a year from today, while Monk
Younger and Tex Tilson are leading their
men against Wake Forest College. It seems
that the change will give added incentive to
the Wildcat team next fall, for Wake Forest
is an old enemy on the gridiron, and with
both squads pointing harder than ever for
the Thanksgiving game, a classic battle will
surely ensue.

So with today’s struggle we bid farewell
to the Blue Devils as Thanksgiving Day op-
ponents, and wish them the best of luck
after five o’clock this afternoon.

THE TIGER OF FRANCE

People the world over are touched by the
death of Georges Clemenceau, former Pre-
mier of France and moving spirit in the na-
tional life of the republic. Seldom has a
more picturesque and, at the same time,
forceful figure appeared on the political hori-
zon of any country. The “Tiger’s” work
for his beloved France will go down in his-
tory as monumental. Already French his-
torians are comparing him with such emi-
nent figures as Danton, Jeanne D’Arc, Gam-
betta and even the mighty Napoleon. The
third French Republic has brought many
leaders to the fore, but none is deemed to
have served more to evoke the grandeur of
France than did the former premier.

When the “father of victory,” as French-
men are wont to call this pioneer of their
government, passed from the scene, it was
the signal for a spontaneous outburst of
patriotism in every quarter of the land. A
flood of memories were revived, and the
spirit of France was exalted. In accordance
with the expressed wish of the dead states-
man, no elaborate funeral rites were ob-
served, Simplicity was the keynote, and that
keynote well expressed the nature of the
man’s life.

Such an event could not fail to stir the
people to greater realization of their debt
to country. As Premier Tardieu addressed
parliament Monday, his fervent plea was
that all Frenchmen might never forget
Clemenceau’s idealism and that all might
work and labor for France.

“Practice his virtues, that is how we may
honor the great Clemenceau best,” were the
premier’s words,

Truly a captain has departed.

PERFECTED GENIUS

We hope that everybody who attended
the concert by Fritz Kreisler enjoyed it as
fully as we did, for in that case a most worth-
while evening was spent, and the listen-
ers went away thrilled at the mastery of the
artist. If there is such a thing as perfected
genius, as ultimate achievement in a par-
ticular field, we think Kreisler must be an
exponent of that condition. Never have we
come in contact with anything so consum-
mate as his skill with his instrument and
his interpretation of mood with music,

Even though a number of selectons in a
concert of this nature are somewhat beyond
the average listener’s appreciation, it 1s a
rare privilege to even try to understand the
movements and the spirit of the music. Most
of us do not make enough contacts with the
finer arts to develop real appreciation. It
behooves us to grasp eagerly such opportu-
nities as the one offered last week, and to
cultivate our tastes by paying attention to
the best.

Kreisler’s offering entranced his audience,
carried it away on the wings of fantasy,
created perfect images for it, and sent it
away feeling that something fine and noble
had been approached through the medium of
the master’s strings. Artistry had accom-
plished a triumph of the first water, and
countless supporters had been won to the
side of beauty.

It is'to be regretted that certain fac-
tions of the audience assembled that night
showed so little courtesy and tact at the
conclusion of the regular program. It is
customary for the artist to:render several

Cosmic Chaos
J. W. McCutchan

Ernest Thompson Seton, in his two boks, “Wild
Animals at Home,” and “Rolf in the Woods,” de-
clares that it has never rained for more thaff three
days and nights in succession. His studies depict
conditions in the Adirondacks and in the Yellow-
stone. For this reason Davidson students will doubt-
less forgive his apparent discrepancies. “If winter
comes can spring be far behind?”

News reports from the Orient tell of the
flight of Chinese soldiers before the Reds.
Arguments over the Manchurian Railway are
still the promoting cause. In all history it
would be hard to find a war which was based
solely on moral and social reasons. There has
almost invariably been an economic cause be-
hind the actual declaration of agtivities. War
is foolish from the standpoint of the average
citizen. But, since the world as a whole has
not been sufficiently educated to the point of
realizing this policy, there: are and should be
sensible plans for defense.

As mentioned in this column, Jast week, naval
parity -with great Britain appears childish when
soundly thought out. Despite the Kellogg Peace
Pact, The Leagtte of Nations, and the D. A. R.,
the Senate is making salient plans: to appropriate
millions of dollars toward the construction of new
cruisers and submarines, Lest this statement ap-
pear contradiictory to the one above, let it be said
that the United States can obtain adequate de-
fense without achieving naval parity with all of
the other nations of the world. It would be an
economic and tactical impossibility for England
to use all of her crusiers for the purpose of at-
tack.

Forty-four persons were injured and five
killed in a blast which took place in the base-
ment of a ten cent store in Washington, D. C.
This combined with trouble in the Far East
recalls to mind the Black Hole of Calcutta.
The picture of a small, ill-ventilated room,
overcrowded with prisoners under a tropical
sun, illustrates the horror of contest between
civilized and uncivilized forces. And it will
be remembered that the Sepoy rebellion was
instigated by the report that British cartriges
were greased with hog fat. The hog, eaten by
English and Americans, is an unclean animal.

Rewards are excellent devices with which to
regain lost property. Frank De Luca received
$5,000.00 upon the return of a necklace which he
had found. Doubtless this was pleasing to De Luca,
and the lady who lost the jewelry was probably
equally glad to have it recovered. Yet to the more
prosaic minded comes thé question as to how
many would return a valuable article if no reward
was to be gained. How many people make friends
for the reason of profiting by that friendship?
Don’t mistake this for a sermon. At times this
column tries to be a trifle thought-provoking, and
then there is space to be filled.

France is one country in the world which
sincerely mourns the passing of its great men.
It is noble for a nation to live in the memory
its historic and beautiful past. It would be
better if other countries followed the example.
This column does not advocate more holidays
for the purpose of picnics, political gatherings,
family reunions, and athletic contests; all of
these activities are god and enjoyable. But has
one ever paused to think what it would mean
if there were three or four days in the year when
the American people would review the past
history of their country and actually study the
diplomatic and economic moves which give us
our present place of leadership in great nations
of the world? As it is the banks are about the
only organizations which observe a fair aver-
age of the holidays. They miss very few!

Throngs observed on the campus:

Juniors who have completed their R. O. T. C.
maps. Their faces show it.

A few individuals who have clipped, grown, and
reclipped feeble growth on the upper lip.

Multitudinous arrays of many colored slickers.

Anxiety over mid-semester reports. Some have
received their reports and some haven't.

One golfer whose amusement appears to be
clicing“his ball from the first tee into the drill ranks
of the military unit. f

Davidsonian, Chameleon, and Quips and Cranks
in a huddle. Must be a concealed play.

——o—SS=S=SSSnaananBaEEL_a_E|_=_=|=|=|=|_—_—_____

encores, and it is Kreisler’s habit to give
about four. The audience ordinarily remains
seated until the lights of the hall-come up.
In the Charlotte gathering, however, sever-
al listeners arose at the conclusion of Kreis-
ler’s second encore, thus starting a general
movement, which resulted in the concert.
being shortened, and which really constitu-
ted a‘ breach of courtesy usually extended
guest artists.

Smokehouse Saga
By W. C. Ragin
(Published Weakly)

As you all probably know, underneath the
smiling exterior of every clown there lies a
busted heart. (Yes, pard, it’s funny how these
danged cinders get in your eyes. However,
even though the traffic lights are shining,
left, clown, left.) While I’m in this dismal
slough of despondency, I might as well jot
down a few of life’s little tragedies that have
come under my observation. Yes, I might as
well, I’ve got to fill up this column somehow.
Alas, I fear that I have become a cynic—a
kitchen cynic that or even a mere porcelain
cynic.) f

You, my public, have read of miserable suicides
and know that at the end of life in the big city
there lies the River. “Tonsilitis” Thwett (they called
his Tonsilitis because he was a pain in the neck)
could not sleep. For many a night, he had rolled
and tossed on his little trundle-bed while, he vain-
ly wooed Morpheus by counting the black sheep
of his family. Finally, he could stand it no long-
er. One morning bright and early, he went to a
leading hardware store of the city. “I want an
antomatic,” he muttered. He selected a wicked
looking .45 and then asked for some cartridges.
The clerk brought some soft-nosed. bullets, but
Tonsilitis rejected them with a glance of disgust.
“T want steel jackets,” he snarled,” they will kill just
as quickly, and don’t shatter the bone.” He took
his purchase and hastened home;-That night, he
locked his door and undressed for the night. Then,
he steathily loaded his pistol and laid it on the
table. He began to write a letter, but suddenly
he made up his mind. He strode over'to the win-
dow, opened it, and slowly raised the gat. A shot
rang out and simultaneously a scream—another
alley cat was dead and tonsilitis could at last sleep.
Remember, gentle reader, this same alley cat was
descended from the powerful Nubian lions who
used to consume the Christian martyrs in the days
of Nero, As these lions would lie in their cages,
they would growl to one another, ‘It’s a hard life,
boys. We're here today and gone to martyr.”

Many of life’s little tragedies also take place in
the sordid world of crime. Why, right here in our
own school, a most horrible thing came to pass
before my protesting eyes. Early one morning, I
was disturbed by a scuffling on the floor above me.
Suddenly, a wild yell assailed my ears. More scuf-
fling tdllowed and a window was raised. I heard
the dull patter of scurrying feet on the grass be-
low, and suddenly, a lifeless body was hurled from
the ‘window to fall with a muffled thud on the
cold, hard ground, Another yell burst forth and
I heard the voice scream, “Freshman, take this
bundle down to the laundry and be quick about
it!” ,

OPEN FORUM

Just what do you think of the system of ab-
sences and cuts here at Davidson? Personally, I
think it is good but could be much improved! And
here is one system I am offering for the considera-
tion of the student body and faculty: let each stu-
dent have ten absences, whether excused or un-
excused, and these are to take nothing away from
the final semester grades. These ten absences are
to cover everything—chapel, church, and classes,
and, as at present, two tardies are to count for
one absence. But any cut above those ten is to.
take one point off of the semester grade, unless the
student is put on the extended sick list. After he
gets say five cuts above the ten then he will be
asked to withdraw from college. At the beginning
of the following semester let the student start off
without, any absences against him. The present
system may be fair, that is, of carrying over from
one semester to the next the cuts above six, but
to me it seems entirely unfair, because a student
may be compelled sometimes to take more absences.
than those now allowed by the college, with the
result that he must start the semester with from
one to six or more absences against him. We begin

the new semester with new subjects, and get a

new set of grades, so, it seems inconsistent not to
do likewise with the absences. What do you think?
I would be glad to read some criticism in this
column next week, either pro or con.
,Watson Wharton.

OUR SEVEN BIG FEARS
Classifying the world’s greatest fears President
Glenn Frank of Wisconsin University places these

seven at the head of the list:

Fear the white race is reproducing its worst
element fastest. :

Fear of being dominated by crowd thinking.

Fear of the industrial civilization destroying it-
self.

Fear that democracy is not the most efficient
form of government. :

Fear civilization moves in cycles, and the West-
ern civilization is aproaching its downfall.

Fear our institutions are becoming so big and so
complicated. that we are unable to train men
to handle them.

Fear that the present generation has renounced
allegiance to’ all wholesome standards of conduct.

