BLUE DEVIL ; ANNUAL CLASH
VERSUS STADIUM
WILDCAT TODAY TWO-THIRTY
“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”
Vol. XVII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 238, 1929 Ih No. 22

Davidson to Meet Duke
In Annual Classic Here
This Afternoon at 2:30

Both Teams in Good Condition for
Game Which Closes Davidson’s
Season

McCALL MAY PLAY

Game Will Bear Weight on State
Title Race

This afternoon at 2:30 Davidson will re-
new her ancient rivalry with Duke. Coach
Monk Younger’s Wildcats will go into the
game determined to emerge with the Blue
Devil’s scalp. Excepting one injury, the ’Cats
will enter the fray with their best eleven.
The fleet Joe McCall, stellar back, may not
start because of an injury sustained against
Carolina. Nevertheless, it is quite probable
that McCall will enter the contest later if
needed.

Duke is in perfect shape for the battle.
The Blue Devils emerged from their snow-
ball fight with Wake Forest without an in-
jury. Each day since this game Coach Jimmie
Dehart has drilled his charges in preparation
for Davidson.. Most of this drill, however,
has been skull and light signal practice be-
cause of the heavy duty the*Duke men under-
went in their fray on last Saturday.

It is with much interest that the followers
of the two teams will watch the outcome, not
only because of the excellent condition of
the players but because of the fact that not
again will this game be played on Turkey

(Continued on page 3)

Prof. Lilly Speaks
to Norfolk Society

Prof. Henry T. Lilly has returned to his
duties as a member of the English Depart-
ment at Davidson College after delivering
an address on “The Aspects of the Modern
Drama” before a very appreciative audience
in the lecture room of the Norfolk Jewish
Synagogue. The address was open to all who
were interested in the literary subjects. It
was one of the series of lectures endowed by
a fund left several years ago to bring promi-
nent speakers to that city by The Norfolk
Society of Fine Arts. Among some of the
speakers have been Dr. Edwin A. Alder-
man, president of the University of’ Vir-
ginia; Dr. James Southall Wilson and Dr.
J. C. Metcalfe, both members of the English
faculty of the University of Virginia, and
Dr. J. R. de Roulhac Hamilton, of the Uni-
versity of North Carolina English Depart-
ment. Speakers have also attended the Nor-
folk Society from Maryland. All of these
speakers have given talks on topics similar
to that used by Professor Lilly in which he
mentioned the names of several far-fatned
writers, some of which are: Shaw, O'Neil,
Isben, Chekhov, Barkers, Yeats, Synge, Tor-
rence and Mackaye.

Business Classes
to Hear Kuester

Professor William’s class in Business Ad-
ministration is to have as its speaker Friday,
the twenty-ninth, Mr. Clarence O. Kuester,
of Charlotte. With Mr. Kuester will be Col.
Wade Harris, also of that city, who will,
-in‘all probability, also speak for a few min-
utes.

Perhaps no two men in this country would
be so well fitted to talk on the subject of
Business than these two. Mr. Kuester is
Executive Secretary of the Charlotte Cham-
ber of Commerce and is one of the best
known men in his line in this part of the
country. Due to some of his methods, he has
attained international recognition. Colonel
_ Haris is the Editor of the “Charlotte Obser-

ver.

These two men have always been great
friends of Davidson and have always been
interested in her welfare. During the past
year the degree of “Doctor of Literature”
was conferred upon Colonel Harris by David-
son in recognition of his services along that
line.

Group pictures of Delegates who attended the Convention of the North Carolina Press Association held at Lenoir-Rhyne College,

\
)

November 21-23

N. C. COLLEGIATE PRESS ASSOCIATION —

_ HOLDS REGULAR SESSION AT HICKORY

Salem Seniors Will
Give Mystery Play

Continuing their presentation of entertain-
ments, the Davidson Dramatic club will pre-
sent eleven members of the senior class of
Salem College in a three act play entitled
“The Hidden Guest.” The performance will
take place in the new Chambers auditorium
at 7:30 p. m. on Saturday, the thirtieth.

The plot of the play involves a debutante,
a college boy, and an escaped convict. This
strange trio suddenly find themselves togeth-
er in the home of a quite spinster. In the
ensuing complications arise the mystery, ro-
mances, and comedy with which the play
is filled from start to finish. For those at-
tending a most enjoyable evening is undoubt-
ably in store because of the unique versatility
of the plot’s different aspects. Even the ele-
ment of spiritualism enters into it in the
person of a semi-deaf servant girl who
heartily believes in preter-natural supersti-
tions. Adding to the already complicated
situation are an attractive girl motorist and
a rich society widow.

During the season the play has been pre-
sented at several other schools in the state.
At all of these it has met with great success.
Several members of the local Dramatic
Club, who have witnessed the preformance
testify to its excellence.

Headed by Miss Mary Neal Wilkins, presi-
dent of the club, the cast will arrive in
Davidson on Saturday and will remain over
the week-end. The Davidson Dramatic Club
will act as guests.

Trophies Awarded

in Various Sports

Several beautiful and valuable loving cups
or trophies are being offered for excellence
in athletic competition, including many of
the sports at Davidson, which with the ex-
ception of one cup, given by Lunsford Rich-
ardson, of Greensboro, will be awarded by
the athletic association unless other people
voluntarily offer rewards for competition.

Heath Whittle, Atlanta, Ga. has already
won an action trophy for supremacy in the
decathalon competition recently concluded at
Davidson. The Richardson loving cup will
go to the student who shows the greatest
physical improvement and higher develop-
ment during the year. Measurements are
made of the students who enter this field in
the fall, and again in the spring to determine
the improvement.

A cup will be awarded to the student who
shows the best all-round gymnastics, based
on indoor competitives events. Two golf cups
will be awarded—one closed to only novices
in this sport, and the second open only to
the varsity. Two similar cups will be award-
ed tennis players. A competition open to any-
one in the student body is goal shooting in
basketball; for which excellence a cup wil
be presented the winner.

Seminary Students
Will Speak Sunday

Next Sunday, December 1, will probably
be the biggest day of the year for the Y. M.
C. A, at Davidson. Some of the best men
and finest speakers who have ever spoken
here will have charge of all religious services
of the day. Four men from the Union Theo-
logical Seminary, two with whom most of
Davidson is acquainted, have interesting and
beneficial talks to be presented. Doctor Mof-
fett has been kind enough to give up both
his morning and evening services, and to-
gether with the talks to be madé at Vespers
and to the Ministerial Band, the day will be
filled with profitable talks which most of the
student body will attend.

Tentative plans show that J. A. Redhead
will have charge of the morning services,
R. S. Wilson will speak at the night serv-
ices, J. K. Roberts will speak to the Minis-
terial Band, and Jim Appelby will speak at
Vespers.

R. S.—‘Shorty”—Wilson, who will speak
at the evening services, is well known at
Davidson. At U. T. S., he is a member of
the student council, president of the Society
of Social Inquiry, and has been active in
all phases of college life.

J. K.—“Jack”—Roberts, who will speak
to the Ministerial Band, \is a graduate of
P. C., a letter man in track there, a member
of O. D. K., a member of Pi Kappa Phi
fraternity, and is an all-round leader.

J. A. — “Jack” — Redhead, who will have
charge of morning services, is a graduate
of Southwestern, is a college leader, a mem-
ber of Kappa Sigma, social fraternity, presi-
dent of the Athletic Association, an able
preacher, and a wonderful Christian char-
acter. :

“Jim” Appelby, former Davidson man,
was a leader in many phases of college life
at Davidson; O. D. K., Phi Beta Kappa, and
a member of T.: U. O. social fraternity. He
will lead the Vesper services.

Author Speaks to
Students nts Tuesday

Last Tuesday ae at 7:30 o'clock in
the Chambers auditorium, J. B. Sale, author,
make an interesting talk to the Davidson
students. His talk centered around his book,
“The Tree Named John” which pictures the
life on a typical Mississippi plantation thirty-
five years ago. ‘The Three Named John” in

this book is comparable only to “Uncle: Rem-
us” in Joel Harris’ famous works.

This talk was procured by the Faculty
Committee on lectures and was under the
supervision of the English Department.
Other similar lectures will be given from
time to time for the Davidson students.

Seven Davidson M Men Represent
Local Publications

Seven members of the staffs of the David-
publications attended the eighteenth
semi-annual gonvention of the North Caro-
lina Collegiate Press Association at [enoir-
Rhyne College, Hickory, last Thursday, Fri-
day and Saturday, November 21-23. Over
ninety representatives of the various college
publications over the state attended the meet-
ing according to R. F. Jarratt, president of
the association and editor of the Chameleon,
Davidson’s magazine:

Davidson's representatives. at the conven-
tions were: R. F. Jarratt, C. M. Pratt, editor
of the annual; FE. H. McCall, business man-
ager of the Davidsonian; E. L. Robinson,
business manager of the Chameleon; D. P.
Anderson, picture editor of the Annual; J.
B. Black and W. C. Ragin, managing editors
of the Davidsonian.

The spring meeting of the association will
be held at High Point College.

Discussions of methods of improving the
publication were held in group with editors
and business managers of state college pub-
licationsvin charge. F. W. Plonk, of N. C.
State, led the discussion in the groups of
business managers; Mabel Ingold, of Guil-
ford, managing editor; H. L. Lippard, Duke,
the newspaper editors; and Cy Edson, edi-
tor of the U. N. C. Buccaneer, the maga-
zine editors.

E. H. Roberts, of N. C. State, was elected
first vice-president of the association on the
resignation of the previously elected official.

During the convention addresses were
given by Chas. Pegram, editor of the Granite
Falls Times, Rev. P. E. Monroe, Hickory,
Miss Beatrice Cobb, Prof. H. L. Hackman,
of Lenoir-Rhyne, and Paul Porter late edi-
tor of the college paper at the University of
Kansas. According to one of the delegates.
Porter made the most interesting talk of the
entire convention, an appeal to college edi-
tors to help rid the world of the many social
injustices.

A football game between Lenoir-Rhyne
and Erskine, luncheons, theater parties, teas,
and banquets constituted the other activities
of the delegates outside of the business ses-
sions.

Athletes Will Be
Awarded eonhies

Different Forms cms of Athletics to
Share in Cups and “Plack”

son

By the close of this session, a number
of Davidson’s star and would-be-star
athletes will be proud posseessors of cups
and trophies. One trophy has already been
awarded to Heath Whittle ,of Atlanta, as
winner of the Decathlon recently- com-
pleted here. The six cups, offered by the
Athletic Association are yet to be won,
and the Richardson cup must likewise
find an owner.

One cup will go to the person who

(Continued on page 3)

N. C. Gamma Chapter of
Phi Beta Kappa Extends
Bids to Davidson Alumni

Rev. Frank Price, Prof. Gigniliatt,
Dr. Alexander, and Rev.
Johnson Accept

INITIATION DATE SET
Dr. McGothlin Will Speak at

Initiation Ceremony

Four Davidson Alumni have accepted the
bids extended to them by the North Caro-
lina Gamma chapter of Phi Beta Kappa at
Davidson College. They are Rev. Frank W.

Price, of China; Prof. G. W. Gigniliatt, of
Clinton, S. C.; Dr. U. S. Alexander, of
Charlotte; and Rev. Norman Johnson, of

Blacksburg, Va.

The initiation for these alumni and the
students who have been recently elected,
will be held Friday, December 6. Dr. W. C.
McGothlin, president of Furman Univer-
sity, and member of a Phi Beta Kappa chap-
ter of South Carolina will speak then.

All of these alumni are members of the
class of 1915. Although Mr. Price is now
in this country, he will not be able to attend
the exercises, as he is doing graduate work
at Yale University. All the other members
will be present. Professor Gigniliatt
member of the faculty of Presbyterian Col-
lege in South Carolina, and at present has a
leave of absence for one year, doing research
work and study. Doctor Alexander recently
obtained his Ph.D. at Columbia University
and is now practicing law in Charlotte, while
Mr. Johnson is pastor of the College church
at V.-P. I.

The Phi Beta Kappa exercises in the fall
are always well attended by both students
and alumni of the College. There will be
four students initiated also. They are A. T.
Edelman, Goldsboro; J. B. Knox, Liberty,
S. C.; Frank R. Brown, Greensboro, and E.
E. Marsh, Jr., Marshville.

is a

Noted Lecturer{On
Physics Here Dec. 3

A lecture of great interest to Davidson
students will be given in the Auditorium of
Chambers Building at 7:30 o’clock on the
evening of December 3 by Dr. Charles Wil-
liam Edwards, head of the Physics Depart-
ment at Duke University. Dr. Edwards will
take as his subject “Matter at Lower Temp-
eratures.” The lecture will be entirely ex-
perimental in nature, dealing with substances
at from 150 to 200 degrees below zero ac-
cording to the centigrade scale. Because of
its experimental nature, the lecture should
prove unusually entertaining and instructive.

Doctor Edwards is much in demand as a
speaker. Recently he has addressed such
gathers as The Society of Engineers from
the two Carolinas and the Tennessee Teach-
ers of Science Association. He is a noted
author, and incidentally, is of the au-
thors of the Physics text book used by
Davidson and some forty other colleges and
universities throughout the United States.

Smoker Planned By

Seniors December 4

one

Senior classes at Davidson College an-

nually have several smokers during the col-
lege year, for the purpose of cementing the
friendships which have been formed, and
giving the class a greater unity when they
become alumni. The class of 1930 at David-
son is following in the footsteps of their pre-

decessors and have scheduled the first of
these affairs for Wednesday night, December
4. Most of them are of an informal nature,
but near the close of their collegiate caree;
the students bring .in prominent a
leaders to make addresses. W. B. M
of, Franklin, president of the 1930
appointed a’committee of ten, w
charge of the arrangements.

