THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 3, 1929

7

NOUVELLE AVANT-NIER
Boost Davidson
R.E. W.

aii.
Be
—

People who write must always have an
excuse for doing so; therefore, I suppose that
it. would be wise at the outset for me to
offer up some sacrifice to the Pagan Gods of
Criticism—May they be ever merciful.

I begin this task of explanation with the
greatest wariness for it concerns a timeworn
and weary word called, “Tradition.” When
that one word is mentioned a few of the less
sophisticated of the world will tilt their noses
slightly upward to gain a freer breath of
air, but even so, the word must go on. Thus

Sport Writers Laud
Fight of Wildcats

Following are some extracts from the
Sport columns of South Carolina news-

son game of last week:

Davidson held her own against the
| strong Clemson eleven in Charlotte for
jthree quarters, but it is the same old tale
| followers of the Wildcats are forced to
| tell—lack of reserves.

The Cats played the Tigers on even
terms for over half the game and it
was only through the. air that they
beat the Younger-Tilson machine. The
Clemson backs were unable to do

it becomes our task to aid the college stu-

dents in becoming better acquainted with col-|
lege history. |

The matter contained on this sheet will |
probably remind most of you of the Richard-
son novels in an earlier period. The pages
of those books were filled with sentiment,
old-maidish in its trend and purposeless of
intent. Richardson took tea and toast with his
various old friends and spoke long over the
shape of feet and the length of skirts, mak-
ing many a risque pun to delight the dear old
souls’ hearts. This column will not be writ: |
ten over tea and toast but over a very stu-
dious-looking yolume of bound newspapers ;
however, it may sometimes run over with
pithless sentiment. I will promise one, thing
though, and that is to spare you from any
dangerous puns.

Down to the golf course for a little walk
and am reminded of long ago: The course
was a bathtub for ducks and a drinking cup
for cows until 1914 when our eminent Pro-
fessor of Chemistry began a move which
ended in the draining of a good many acres
of ground, so that now amid the browsing
herds our amiable student strives to drive
his ball around the hills and over the stream.
In the early days one Archie Reeves made
the course with a score of thirty-one, which
was excellent, for golf clubs were shorter in
that age.

Over td visit the dormitories, where I
again fall victim to memory’s tales. There
was a time when the campus possessed only
three dormitories, each having four rooms |
and harboring sixteen students. The remain-
der of the sixty-five were hidden under that
“bushel” called Stewart Hall, where~ they
ate, had Sunday Services, morning and even-
«ing prayer, and where the trustees deigned
to meet once a year. Phis building was
leveled in 1909 to make room for others. So,
in the words of Addison, “Time will change
the “best of us.” It has been said that man
must either progress or retrograde; that it
is impossible to stand still. And looking about
the campus methinks that there has been
nothing but progression since 1839 when
Maxwell Chambers laid and dedicated the
cornerstone to old Chambers.

And now home to write these meditations
and give them to you. So we will leave you
with this thought: “Just remember, men,
that it doesn’t cost a thing to utter a friendly
greeting. And*two or three kind words will
alter the whole outlook on life and humanity.
There will be many homesick faces and gulp-
ing Adath’s Apples around the campus in
the next weeks, so try and change those
glum eyes into smiling ones. Get the ‘Y’
habit.”

So to bed amid cries of ““Zounds” and other
medieval expressions of wrath.

WILDCATS MEET WOFFORD

(Continued from page 1)

Brown: sessce-4525 RB ees Carroll
McCall. 2 2c OB. sae Kennedy
Parrish’. 2253 1 Bl Gi ecient Willis
Brohard ~_.___._ RG ce gee aoe Adams
Braleyeco2on2ec oe RB esse ee Jackson

Wofford deafeated High Point 18 to 6,
Saturday.

During the fourteen years of play between
the two schools Wofford has scored only 21
points to Davidson’s 393. The following sum-
mary of the games of the two schools may be
of interest to the students.

anything with the Tilson-coached line
and all honor to the light sophomore
Davidson forwards who held the
thundering herd from Clemson.

Mathis and Brown, guard and end on
the Davidson team, never played football
until they came to Davidson last year.
Both are sophomores; that is a sample
of how Monk Younger and Tex Tilson
can develop them. Give them some ma-
terial and some weight and they would
turn out a team.

It was another case of too much
beef and Hrawn in the Davidson-
Clemson battle in Charlotte. The
Presbyterians did their durndest, but
they were overpowered by sheer
weight and more reserves as Carl
Weimer, sports editor of the Green-
ville News, who was present, says:

“Davidson fought hard but the pow-
er of Clemson, the passing of Goat
MacMillan, the prowling of Johnny
Justice, the hard hitting of Harvin and
Bob McCarley and superb play by
Foggy Woodruff and Bob Jones as-
serted itself. It was pressure applied
with unvarying consistency. It was
the case of the smaller fce being
forced to yield to the stronger one,
having reserve as well as ability and
one that unloosed an overhead attack
that completely dazed their opponents
except in one period.”

However, the names of two or three
Wildcats will stand out. They deserve to
go down in the Davidson hall of fame for
the game they put up against such odds.
They are Brock, McCall, Parrish, Mason,
Mathis, and Fraley.”

The same writer quoted above
heaps this word of praise on the Wild-
cats: “While the Cats did not make as
many first downs they gained much
yardage, most of it’ through Clem-
son’s line. Clemson supporters frank-
ly were surprised with the frequency
with which this wall was penetrated
by the light Presbyterian backs, Mc-
Call, Brohard, Parrish, and King ex-
celled. They hit hard and went far at
times. The heat seemed to have Clem-
son slowed up.”

“The work of the Davidson forwards
against their heavier opponents was re-
markable. Mathis, DeCamp, Covington
and Mason were splendid and should have
a special banquet given them at David-
son for their withstanding of the assault
made by the Tigers. They were punished
and punished severely but they with-
stood it nobly.”

“Brock at end deserves mention in a
special paragraph, This little end, cap-
tain of the team, is an inspiring leader.
He put up one of the best games at
end seen in many a day. He was in
the thick of every play. Did the punt-
ing, kickedthe extra points and all in
all was as great a star as the contest
brought out. He is simply a wonder.”

“McCall and King ran punts back well,
too. Davidson should feel mighty proud
of its showing today for it was a team
that turned what many thought would be
a onesided game into a sensational ex-
hibition.”

TO ATTEND CLASS OR NOT?

One of the latest “gasps” in college reform
is optional class attendance. Over a dozen
universities and colleges. have granted this
privilege to their students during the past
winter, but with this new freedom has come
additional worry. The professors in the var-
ious institutions have tightened down on their
requirements and have gone to the extreme
of giving an extra exam to all Seniors who

Year Wofford Davidson
NOVA a See 6 A 81
MONS poke osa owas! 0 45
11 (See ie ae 0 34
10) Yi a See 0 62
192} 0 87
177 Sao See SNS 0 34
MOA) esos sas Pee 0 7
1925 ,-.------------ 0 7
1A 7 ape Apert cnet 6 24
| 7-1 LoS Eel ce 2 12
MOAB i sees el 7 0
otal) ooo a 21 393]

hy

have over one cut. e

papers as they discuss the Davidson-Clem- |

| LITERARY

SOCIETIES

Eumanean

i

| Last Tuesday night the Eumanean Literary
| Society met for the second time this year.
| Many of the members were absent, so’ the
| program was rather short. An interesting de-
bate was held, however, the query being,
|“Resolved, that the Fifteenth Amendment to
| the Constitution should be enforced.”
| During the meeting, plans were. discussed
for making the programs more interesting.
| It was resolved to have more outside speak-
jers in the future. It was also decided to
}adopt the old system of debating whereby
}one man challenges any member to contend
‘against him on a given query. The society
| set as its goal for new members twelve
| freshmen.
| Everyone is cordially invited to attend
|these meetings. It would probably be of in-
|interest to the new men of the campus to
iknow that Woodrow Wilson was once a
|member of this society when he attended
| Davidson College.

MANY DAVIDSON MEN ARE
PROMINENT AT SEMINARY

Davidson continues her r \ cord of
' supplying more ministers to the Presby-
terian Church than any other college,
with twelve members of the present]
lior class of Union Theological Seminary
}claiming that North Carolina institution
jas their Alma Mater. Those men
| the Class of 1929 who are enrolled are:
| Robert Kirkpatrick, Robert Stoop, John
| Ricks, Roy Whitley, Thomas Hill, Wil-
liam Hill, Aubrey Brown, A. R. Koop, De-
| Witt Help, and Frank Hall. Floyd Jones
land Frank Blue, graduates in previous
have also entered the Junior
'28, has transferred
from Princeton Seminary and entered the
| Middle Class.
|}. The Rev. Dunbar Ogden has returned
to the Seminary as one of the Hoge Fel-
! lows.
| Leighton McCutchan and W. M. Chris-
|tian, prominent Davidson athletes, are
franking members of the tennis team.
Julian Lake, Number 6, is captain. Play
lon a ladder tournament is now in progress
fon the splendid new courts which are be-
ling used for the first time this fall. Other
| Davidson men are shining lights on the
football, basketball and volleyball teams.

FRATS CONCLUDE SEASON

(Continued from page 1)
| ville; Q. M. Harless, Christiansburg, Va. ;
'R. B. Sugg, Greenville, S. C.

Pi Kappa Alpha—J. R. Howard, Atlanta,
Ga. RLR, Mauzy, Harrisonburg, Va.; Ans-
‘ley Watson, Anderson, S. C.; I. E, Dickin-
/son, Harrisonburg, Va.; A. L. Mills, J. M.
| Waggoner and F. T. Slane all of Statesville ;
| A. B. Kuhn, Davidson; T. H. Henly, Laurin-
burg; W. R. Morrow, Jr., High Point; V.
'C. Shutzy, Decatur, Ga.; FE. B. Peabody,
| Charlotte; Joseph Dunlinson, Jr., Danville,
|Va.; G. S. Sherrod, Greensboro; A. F. Greg-
| ory and R. K.. Gregory, Lake City, Fla.;
G. E. Bailey, Hickory; G. A. Little and C.
| H. Little, Jr., Charlotte; R. H. Daniel, Char-
| lottesville, Va.; W. F. Mullis, Martinsburg,
W. Va. ;

Pi Kappa Phi—R. H. Alderman, Alcolu,
|S. C3 J. E. Boyd, Charlotte; E. A. Morgan,
Marion; C. S. Faucette, Chattanooga, Tenn. ;
H. K. McDonald, Greenville, S. C.; M. R.
Pope, Talladega, Ala.; G. H. Ross, Wades-
boro; D. FE. Hunt, Oxford; W. B. Hayes,
Fremont.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon—C. F. Myers, Jr.,
Greensboro; W. A. Lyon, Davidson; J. B.
Clarke, Jr., Fayetteville; B. C. Parks, John-
son City, Tenn.; W. A. Bedell, San Antonio,
Texas; Arthur Ross, Jr., Asheboro; E. B.
Cannon, Roanoke Rapids; A. G.. Little, Jr.,
Valdosta, Ga.; T. A. Bowles, Decatur, Ala. ;
A. M. Manson, Jacksonville, Fla.

Theta Upsilon Omega—G. C. Neal, Ruffin ;
J. A. Smith, Mixburg, Ala.; J. A. Smith,
Fort Valley, Ga.; A. J. Ellington, Madison.

Alpha Omega—A. H. Grant, Mebane; L.
M. Vickery, North Wilkesboro; H. A. Alli-
good, Kayetteville.

Pyramid Club—C. E. Bettis, Morristown,
Tenn.; D. R. Mower, Staunton, Va.; J. M.
Hudson, Charleston, W. Va.; Avery Patton,
Jr., Greenville, S. C.; C. B. Moseley, Staun-
ton, Va.; C. M. Howard, Raeford.

Upperclassmen accepting bids and the fra-
ternities they are pledged to are: J. L. Hall,
Burlington, Beta Theta Pi; E. H. McCall,
Salisbury, Phi Gamma Delta; H. W. Tins-
ley, Chester, S. C., and F. E. Chamness, Pi
Kappa Phi, and V. M. Bell, Cairo, Ga,
Sigma Alpha Epsilon. eM)

| classes,

| Class. Grier Davis,

on Sane
—

from

_Philanthropic

The Phi Literary Society met in its regu-
lar weekly meeting Tuesday, September 24.
After the meeting was called to order by
R. T. Ellet, the president, a short devotional
service was led by J. W. McCutcheon. The
feature of the evening was a talk on the
value of membership in a literary society
to the student. Mr. Jackson added a few
remarks on the history of some of the fur-
nishings of the hall that would be of inter-
est to everyone on the hill.

After a short business session, the meeting
was a adjourned and everyone participated
in a feed given in honor of the new men.

The Phi Society is pointing for a banner
year and all freshmen and upperclassmen
who have talent or hope to develop talent in
this line are urged to join for ‘the develop-
ment of theirselves and the improvement of
the society.

NOTED VISITOR TO CAMPUS

Dr. Virginia Hudson, of the English De-
partment in the State Teachers’ College at
East Raeford, Virginia, and a lineal descend-
ant_of Gen. William Lee Davidson, for whom
lots was named, spent last Saturday

campus. She was accompanied by
Prof. Florence B. Ogg, of the same insti-
tution.

DEPUTATION GOES
TO MOORESVILLE

The Second Presbyterian Church of
Moresville has used the “Y” deputation
system for all services held there during
the past week. At the Prayer Meeting
service on September 25, Jack McKin-
non used as his subject “Study to show
thyself approved unto God, a workman
that needeth not to be ashamed.”

The morning service on Sunday, Sep-
tember 29 was conducted by Frank
Brown, who used as his theme verse “And
who knoweth whether thou art come to
this kingdom for such a ‘time .as_ this.”
Esther 4:14. Brown stressed the fact that
we are all here for a purpose, some of
us serviing our purpose unconsciously.

Fred held the © evening
using “The three phases of a Christian
Life” as his subject. Poag brought out
that a Christian first “sees,” then “tells”
and then “lifts” himself to a Christian
Standard. His key-verse was John 12:22.

Again, at the mid-week service on Oc-
tober 2, W. J. Beavers gave a talk on
“What is means to be a Christian.”

Poag service,

YALE SENIORS SHOW
PREFERENCE

Recently the Senior Class at Yale voted
their preference for different things which
they enjoyed as a whole. The following selec-
tions were -made: English was judged the
most valuable subject,. psychology the least
valuable; “If” the favorite poem; Tennyson
the best liked poet; Napoleon the favorite
historical character; Emil Jannings the most
popular movie star, and the Saturday Even-
ing Post the widest read magazine.

Mrs.: “There's an account in the paper
of a man who lives on onions alone.”

Mr.: “Well,, any man who’ lives
onions ought to live alone.”—Ex.

on

Glee Club Try Out
Draws Good Crowd

The Glee Club of Davidson College which
has always played a prominent part in the
activities of the college, shows unusual pros-
pects for the sessions of 1929-30 according
to a report from Prof. E. J. Cullum, the
director.

More than seventy men presented them-
selves at the first trials held today in Shearer
Hall. About thirty of these men will be
selected for the chorus besides those mem-
bers of the, Jazz Orchestra and the Concert
Orchestra.

Approximately eighteen of last year’s
men will be back. Among these are C. C.
Orr, president; J. H. Ramseur and J. A.
Cannon, vice-presidents; and R. W. McDer-
mid, business manager, will form the nucleus
about which Professor Cullum will build the
club of '30. The club will make its first
official showing here at Davidson on Home
Coming. Day, November 16.

Several trips are in prospect, the most
important of which is, perhaps, to the dis-
trict contest of the Southern Glee Club As-
sociation. This contest, which will be held
at Richmond, Va., will perhaps offer some
6f the best of the Glee Clubs of thé South.

Concerts will also be presented at Win-
ston-Salem, Greensboro, and probably Reids-
ville, besides other towns in the state with
whom definite arrangements have not yet
been made.

Young Teachers Wanted
For Work in Near East

Interesting Opening for Young
College Graduates

The American colleges and universities in
Cairo, Assiut, Beyrouth, Smyrna, Constanti-
nople, Athens, and Sofia, every year secure
a dozen or more graduates of various Amer-
ican colleges of this country to teach for a
period of three years, with the privilege of
continuing longer if acceptable. Teaching is
done through the English language. The
salary seems to be sufficient to make it pos-
sible to secure plenty of applicants. The work
is in one of the most interesting parts of
the world. Men qualified to teach English
and the Sciences are wanted in larger num-
bers than for teaching in other departments.
Definite information will reach us by Decem-
ber 1, as to the exact needs of each insti-
tution for the session beginning in Septem-
ber, 1930. Already we know that the Ameri-
can University in Beyrouth wants four young
men to teach English alone. We have reason
to believe that this year, Davidson men well
qualified will receive very special considera-
tion as applicants for some of the positions.
Any Seniors or recent graduates of David-
son who may be interested are directed to
confer or communicate with Prof. Thos. W.
Lingle as promptly as possible. In view of
the care with which men for these positions
are selected, we would not encourage any
man to apply, who does not rank scholasti-
cally among the upper twenty per cent of his

class.

Farmer: “Why did it take you so long
to put the bridle on that horse?”

Farm hand (from the city): “I had to
wait until he yawned to get the bit in his
mouth,”

Then there’s the one about the Scotch-
man who died and. left a million dollars

to the mother of the Unknown Soldier.

“VOILA!”

A stiff exam, a round.o’ gym,

Demand your vigor, verve and vim; :
Ambitious studes must keep in trim:
Eat LANCE’S foods—get in the swim:

“Excel, sir!’

STATIONERY
FOUNTAIN PENS
SUNDRIES

Victor, Brunswick and Columbia Records
every week

W. S. HENDERSON

CANDIES
SMOKES
SODA

