CONTRIBUTE
=" THE DAVIDSONIAN | :==
BANNER ELK ? . eee ON
“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”
Vol. XVII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 5, 1929 No. 12

Wildcats Defeat Blue Devils 13-12
In Great Classic of the Gridiron
Played Thanksgiving Afternoon

Brock Runs 102 Yards to Pave Way
for Touchdown

McCALL FIRST SCORER

Red Parrish Intercepts Three
Passes to Stop Great Aerial
of Duke Team

Captain Thad Brock carved for himself
an immortal place in the football) Hall of
Fame when he broke loose for a spectacular
run of 102 yards against the Duke~Univer-
sity Thanksgiving Day. His great run paved
the way for the score that gave the winning
margin and forced the powerful Blue Devils
to go home on the short end of~a 13 to 12
score. It was the greatest victory of the
Wildcats this season.

Duke had driven down the field to the
shadow of Davidson's goal and had been held
on the seven-yard line. Brock was back
eight yard behind his goal in.a punt forma-
tion, The ball was snapped back and, instead
of punting, he started out around right end
before any of the linesmen could touch him,
He cut back toward the center of the field,
eluding several men of’ the secondary defense
who were closing in on him, and, by the time
he had passed the thirty yard line, he was
ahead of all tacklers. On past midfield into
Duke's territory he sped with several white-
jersied pursuers close behind him. Past the
forty yard line, the thirty, the twenty-five,
twenty, and the goal just a few steps ahead
of the tired Wildcat leader. A Duke man
made a dive from behind and brought Brock
down on the five yard line. It was the most
brilliant play that Richardson field has seen
in many, many a day and one that the eight
thousand spectators fortunate enough to see
will not soon forget. It completely broke the
spirit of DeHart’s men and though they
fought back in the second half to score once
more, their attack did not have the resistless
surge, the well-timed drive that characterized
their play the first two periods.

Brock was a constant threat to Duke's
hopes of victory. He stuck out in the day’s
play like a sore thumb. He constantly was
placing the ball far down the field with his
powerful kicks, or smashing through to
break up a play before it could get well
started. His passes, kept the Blue Devils
back. Brock played one of his best games of
the year and, to top it off, made his sensa-
‘tional run and another run of 26 yards as
an appetizer.

But all the praise should not go to Brock.
The Davidson line rose to supreme heights
in holding in check the powerful Duke
plunging attack. Although it was torn to
shreds at times by the smashes of Brewer,
Robeson, Godfrey, and others, it generally
would rise up to hold when the goal line was
threatened seriously. In defensive every man
on the secondary played a great’ game. Time
after time the runners would smash past the
first line and into a broken field, only to be
brought down by a yicious tackle two or
three yards past the line of scrimmage.

Monk Younger matched Buie’s famous
passes with a defense so effective that only
two heaves ‘were completed out of the nine
attempted, and five found their way into
the arms of Davidson men. Red Parrish alone
intercepted three of the throws and made up
completely for a muff of one of Brohard’s
passes early in the game. Buie finally became
so ineffective with his passing that he was
withdrawn from the game.

But although Davidson came off victor,
they did so only after they had outfought
and stopped the most devastating running and
plunging game they have faced this year. A
fast charging white line ripped and tore the
Wildcat forwards to shreds and it seemed
that there was no stopping this seemingly
perfect attack. The Blue Devils would come
surging up the field with a power that rolled
up first down after first down, that piled up
yardage with amazing rapidity, but when it
seemed that a touchdown was certain that
thin red line would halt the drive, or one of
Buie’s passes would go into a Davidson man’s
arms, and the Wildcat stands would breathe
a sigh of relief.,This marvelous attack that

(Continued on page 6)

Fifteen Members
Taken In By I.R.C.

Fifteen new members were initiated into
the International Relations Club last Friday
night in the Philanthropic Hall.

Two short speeches were made, the first
by Sam R. Coker, president of the Club, who
told something of the value of the organiza-
tion and asked members to be diligent in
their attendance at meetings, and in their
cooperation to making them a real success.
The talk was followed by the initiation.

Immediately following the ceremony, Dr.
J. W. McConnell, of the Davidson faculty,
briefly spoke on the purpose of the Interna-
tional Relations Clubs, which calls for the
creation of sentiment for World Peace and
Brotherhood and the abolition of war.

The society, which is planning to have a
successful year, discusses usually, pending
international problems of prominence. Mod-
ern day news of international projects and
important governmental actions, as well as
reports on new books written concerning this

for

phase of the organization's work, are regu-
larly given in its bi-monthly meetings.

This national organization invites new
members twice a year, once in the fall and
once during the spring term, Other officers
include, H. FE. Russell, vice-president, and
Allan M. Frew, Secretary-Treasurer.

The following men, who have been chosen
on a competitive basis calling for the submis-
sion of essays concerning club projects, and
who have been carefully selected as to their
personal ability and merit, were inducted into
the society :

James B. Black, W. A. Rembert, R. T.
Numan, Charles Burch, Brown Mayo, C. P.
Greyer, John F. Preston, J. W. MacCutchan,
H. A. McCallister, D. C. Hunter, J. A.
Ward, W. F. Gaffney, F. V. Poag; A. R.
Bird, J. V. D. Middleton, and P. R. Alder-
man.

Appleby Ges Talk On
Pride in the Ministry

Former Student and “Y” Secretary
Returns to Davidson With
Union Seminary Deputation

Jim Appleby from Union Theological Sem-
inary in Richmond, Va., former student and
“Y" secretary here was back with us Sun-
day and gave a splendid address at the Ves-
per Service. Jack Roberts another member
of the deputation from the seminary led in
prayer and Bob Orr rendered a violin solo.

Jim took his text from the first chapter
of Romans: Paul's words, “I am net ashamed
of the gospel of Christ: for it is the power
of God unto salvation to every one that
believeth.” Paraphrasing this a little Jim
said, “I am in the ministry and proud of it.
In recent years man has made wonderful
strides in bringing nature to obey his wishes
but the world has a much greater need that
has hardly been touched. In the past two
decades the span of man’s life has been in-
creased twenty years and an infinite number
of important’ inventions and discoveries have
been made. There never was a time when
there were so many institutions for charity
and moral uplift. Thre are many associations
and agencies for the prevention of war; yet
today while the United States is spending
two billion dollars for education she spends
three billion for armament. This expenditure
has been increasing yearly and today is
greater than that of any other nation in the
world. During the past year jthere was a
two per cent increase in the already startling
number of divorces in this country, one di-
vorce. to every six marriages. Here in our
southland there are more murders per capita
in the cities of Atlanta and Birmingham than
in Chicago and New York, and last year
there were two and one-half times as many
murders in the one city of Chicago as were
committed in all England. The worst thing
about the present crime wave is that it is
principally among the young men and boys.

(Continued on page 3)

Triple Threat Man

Captain Thad Bro ho ran 102 yards
through Duke’s litte to give Davidson
a great victory.

College Makes Plans to
Form Radio Contact in

Near Future With WBT

Broadcasts to be Made From Audi-
torium of Chambers Building

DR. LINGLE FAVORS SCHEME
Orchestra and Glee Club Practice
Strenuously for Program to be
Given Monday Night

: |
According to the developments of the past
week, Davidson College will not only have
the opportunity of broadcasting over radio
Station WBT weekly, but it now appears
likely that direct connections between. the

powerful station in Charlotte and the. col-
lege will be made, enabling the broadcasts
to be given in the main auditorium of Cham-
bers Building. This would eliminate the ne-
cessity of transporting the students to Char-
lotte each Monday night; and would permit
a larger number of the Glee Club to partici-
pate.

Last week Prof. Ernest Cullum and Ernest
Milton, at the request of Dr. Walter Lingle,
president ofthe college, went to Charlotte
and interviewed Mr. Donald O'Connor pro-
gram manager of WBT, about the possibili-
ties of establishing a permanent connection
between the station and the auditorium at
Davidson. The results were of a satisfactory
nature, it learned that the station
would be glad to install the necessary equip-
ment here if the college would pay for the
installation of a circuit.

being

It was brought out by Mr. O'Connor that
the radio authorities in Charlotte are anxious
to link up with the institution, that not only
would he like to have a weekly broadcast,
but would also like to broaden out and in-
clude a lecture program from Davidson as
often as possible, preferably to be given in
the morning. He also said that the station

(Continued on page 6)

Phi Beta Kappa to
Hold Fall Initiation

The North Carolina Gamma _ chapters of
Phi Beta. Kappa will hold its annual fall
initiation Friday evening, December 6, in the
new auditorium of Chambers building. At
this time a great honor will be conferred
upon those who receive the initiation rites
of this honorary organization. Phi Beta
Kappa is the oldest Greek letter fraternity
in the United States having been founded
December 5, 1776. It may be noted that this
is only one day removed from the date,
December 6, which has been set for the
ceremonies of the Davidson chapter. Al-
though once chiefly social this organization
has now risen to a position of the leading
honorary scholarship fraternity.

The local chapter was founded in 1923
and since that time has taken in a number of
prominent students, also alumni who have
proven themselves worthy of the distinction
which is‘connected with membership in this
organization. The officers of this chapter at

(Continued on page 4)

Active Canvassing For Annual “Y”
Mission Fund, Going to Mountain
Boys, to Commence Monday Night

Kuester Addresses
Class at Davidson

People get paid from thejr neck up instead
of down. If that were not true, then black-
smiths would be millionaires,” declared Clar-
ence Kuester, vice-president and secretary of
the Charlotte Chamber Commerce, in
speaking to the business administration class
at. Davidson College last Friday. He
Your Mind,”
Davidson at the in-
vitation of Prof. J. P. Williams of the de-
partment of Business Administration, and
his visit is one of theteveral which will be
made to Davidson from time to time
prominent men, Col, Wade H. Harris, editor
of the Charlotte Observer, was to accom

of

used
as his theme, “Balance
Mr.

Kuester was at

by

pany Mr. Kuester and supplement his re
marks but was unable to be here.

The Chamber of Commerce secretary told
his listeners that they are with
two minds—the conscious and sub-conscious,
The former, he said, would take care of the

endowed

ordinary exigencies of life, and the sub-con
scious was more liable to loaf on the job.
“Put it to work,” he urged them. He cited
instances of men who had hobbies but, while
they were enjoying them, their sub-conscious
at
concocting plans for their businesses.

minds were work, evolving schemes or
are two
he maintained, ‘and
common sense is simply experience.” He did

“Courage and common sense

essentials to success,”

hot attempt to elaborate upon many neces-
sary traits, but named a few which included
accuracy, courtesy, energy, enthusiasm, jus-
tice, loyalty, memory, Observation, originality,
poise, reflection, study, reading, self-control,
thrift, health, character, and personality.
“The later,” he contended, “is simply the
individual's self,” and he charged the stu-
dents specifically to watch this and“develop
it.
(Continued on page 4)

Davidson Football Team
Honored at Mooresville

Dr. Kennedy, Mooresville Pastor,
Makes Talk at Banquet Held in
Rotary Clubroom

The 1929 football team of Davidson Col-
lege was feted sumptuously and extensively
in Mooresville Monday night, when David-
son alumni and representative men of that
city tendered a banquet in their honor. It
was given at the rooms of the Rotary Club
and started at 6:30 o'clock. This was the
second time that such affair had
arranged by the Mooresville people interested
in Davidson. :

Over sixty people were present at the en-
tertainment, this number including approxi-
mately 20 members of the team, various re-
presentatives from the faculty, and those who
were hosts to the Wildcats and their coaches.
J. H. McClelland, ‘09, presided at the ban-
quet.

The principal speaker of the occasion, who
was introduced by Zeb V. Turlington, mem-
ber of the Davidson Board of Trustees, was
Rev. |. N. Kennedy, D.D., pastor of the
Associated Reformed Presbyterian church at
Mooresville. '\ For over twenty minutes this
speaker entertained his hearers with a semi-
humorous talk, but interspersed his witty
remarks with worthwhile suggestions to the
team in their individual relationship to their
future life.

an been

Doctor Kennedy began his address by say-
ing that he had often heard the Davidson
team described as a “mystery eleven,’ but
hastened to explain that he is no longer ques-
tioned that term, but whole-heartedly agreed
with whomever originated it. “I learned here
tonight,” he said, “that every man is a triple-
threat eater, that they tackle everything, that
they let nothing pass, and that they make
many downs.’

Assuming a more serious vein, the Moores-
ville pastor asked them the point-blank ques-
tion, “What are you going to do’when you

(Continued on page 4)

Lees-McRae Boys to Lead Chapel
Tomorrow Morning

$250 TO UNION CHAPEL

Fifteen Scholarships of $50 to Go to
Mountain Boys, Making Year’s
School Possible

The Y. M,C. A. officials feel that a mission
cause more worthy than that of €he moun-
tain at
hardly found,

Institute could
Josephus Daniels, noted
Tar Heel state, says that

hoys Lees-McRae
be
journalist of the
money invested at Lees-MeRae will bring a
large dividend; that if men of large means
could visit Banner Elk, the orphanage, the
junior college, and Grace Hospital, and see
what is being done there it would not be
dificult for Mr. Tufts to get allthe financial
backing he needed to carry on the work.

Mr. Daniel's entire article, which appeared
in “News and ‘Observer,’ is published in
pamphlet form and may be obtained, along
with other pamphlets, from the display of
literature in the hall of Chambers.

Actual the mission fund
will be done Monday night, and will be car-
ried out so that each man will make his gift
or his pledge to a member of his own class.

canvassing for

The goal is: Every student contributing and
a total of $1000. It is hoped, however, that
this total will be over subscribed.

Seeing the need of expansion in Union
Chapel, located in the mill district at David-
the “Y" “has voted that $250 of the
sum go to Union chapel to be used as an
for further contributions. Albert
McClure, under whom the work has greatly
increased, needs a new Sunday School build-

son,

incentive

ing which will cost $2000. The people of the
chapel have pledged $125. The sum is given
by the “Y" on the provision that the build-
ing is completed within one year.

Kach year Lees-McRae enrolls over 200
boys and girls. Out of the 221 enrolled this
year there are 83 who will have to have aid.
The boys and girls work to help pay the
small sum of $120 which pays for board,
room, tuition (under college graduates) and
fees for the entire year. Each student is per-
sonally considered and no one is given aid
who can pay his own way. Those who apply
for admission, prove themselves scholastical-
ly, and are willing to help themselves, are
given aid. Industry, merit, and necessity are
the requiremtns which must be met in order
to gain a scholarship.

Lees-McRae is one of the three depart-
ments of the Edgar Tufts Memorial Associa-
tion, and is located at Banner Elk, N. C..in
the heart of the mountain section of Western

(Continued on page 6)

Hood Will Lecture.
On Physics Tonight

Professor of Psychology Speaks at
Invitation of Sigma Pi Sigma

On Thursday night December 5, a note-
worthy lecture will be delivered’ in the
faculty room of the Chambers building. Dr.
Frazer Hood the Psychology Depart-
ment of Davidson College will deliver the
lecture, his subject being “The Relation of

of

Physic to Psychology!” This interesting and
educational program will be’ offered under
the auspices of the local Alpha chapter of
the national Physics honorary fraternity,
Sigma Pi Sigma. It will be an open meeting
and all student and townspeople are cor-
dially invited to be present.

This lecture is the first of a series of
two or three programs given each year by
Sigma Pi Sigma for the edification of the
student body. The local fraternity is a chap-
ter of the. national organization which com-
prises eleven chapters scattered over the
South and East. The three fold purpose of
the organization is to foster interest in the
study of Physics, to encourage research, and
to bring about a more sympathetic under-
standing of the subject. Doctor Hood is a
,very clever speaker, and the lecture promises,
to be interesting as well as instructive.

