THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 27, 1930

5

Books We Have Read

Brothers Karamazov. Dostoyevsky, Fyodor.
_ Modern Library, Incorporated, New York.
Springing from the remains of a decayed

noble family with few possessions other than |

a country estate, like its author, Fyodor
Dostoyevsky, Brothers Karamazov still rises

to make its appeal to the emotional reader. |

Although it was printed in the latter part
of the preceding century, the book has ex-
perienced a peculiar revival.

To one who has eagerly threaded his way

through The Idiot and Crime and Punish- |

ment no allusion need be made concerning
Dostoyevsky’s finesse of human feeling and
psychology. It is expected of him. His every
word displays depth of thought; one cannot
read his words without thought.

Russian life is here in all of its bare ugli-

ness and simple magnitude. The evildoers |

occupy themselves with vice; the priests busy
themselves with the malefactors. To com-
plete the cycle the sinners laugh at. the
priests, and one rather suspects that the last
named worthies expect to be laughed at.
Everybody laughs and then cries.

A master of thotight portrayal, Dostoyev- |
sky employs contrast to its fullest extent. |

The reader is led, in a few pages, from the
philosophic beauty of Alyosha and Father
Zossima to the unsovary presence of Liza-
veta. Supposing that he has not been struck
with the salient characteristics of the first,
he is startled upon contact with the second,
whereupon he reviews the first, and will
probably re-read it.

He is daring who would attempt to intér-
pret the Russian master’s intent in writing
the book. Perhaps one is inclined to read

too much between the printed lines. In the |

final analysis, whether it was intended or
not, the three brothers (one cannot count
Smerdyakov), coincide too neatly with three
passions which overwhelmed the life of the
creative artist.

Dmitri, the rough, the uncultured, fails
like his father in any attempt to gauge his
temper. Unrestrained in love, in benevolence,
in hatred, this eldest son rages on his way.
Noone can avoid seeing his love for the
beautiful, but at the same time must admit
his unrestrained license. Russia is untamed!

Ivan, the second son, bows with European
elegance; it would have mortified his Tartar
ancestors! Moody as the rest, he is in the
predicament of the man who finds his heart
in one place and his habits in another.
Scarcely is he happy. He recognizes sorrow
as a necessity, but through foreign associa-
tions he is riot mentally capable of bearing

Ld

News From Other Hills

College Calendar

Friday, November 28— The Third

r New. Brunswick, N. J.—(IP)—That
| teachers aré due to receive the same rewards
|given research workers, is the opinion of
Professor Parker H. Daggett, dean of the
| School of Engineering at Rutgers University
here.

“The latter,” he says, “not infrequently
makes the front page of the newspaper; the
|former is all too often damned with faint
| Praise.”

| _—_—_—
|

| Philadelphia, Pa—(IP)—Strip film pho-
| tography has been adopted by the School of
| Medicine at Temple University here as the
| best method of teaching medicine.

Strip film photography is different from
/motion pictures in that it consists of the
making for projection purposes of single pho-
tographic exposures, usually in series, on
strips of standard motion picture film.

The camera used at Temple is small
enough to be carried in a man’s coat pocket,
|and yet it takes perfect pictures, according
to university authorities.

New York—(IP)—New York University
| co-eds were the manikins at a fashion show
| given at the University’s Little Theatre, in
| co-operation with a large New York depart-
ment store.

The show was the idea of Miss Elizabeth
| Burris-Meyer, director of the university's
division of costume design, who chose this
|direct method of teaching her students the
| facts concerning a proper and tasteful se-
| lection of attire.

Tuscon, Ariz.— (IP )—The widespread be-
| lief that students are now entering college
|at an earlier age than in the past is not
| substantiated by the available facts, accord-
|ing to Dean Emil R. Riesen, of the Uni-
‘versity of Arizona.

Although comprehensive figures never
| have been compiled, the trend in many uni-
| versities appears to indicate, he says, that
| freshmen are as old, and in some cases older,
| than in college generations past.

| At Harvard, Dean Riesen points out, the
javerage freshman of 100 years ago was 16
years and 3 months. Fifty years later, in
1880, the average freshman age had ad-
vanced to 18 years and 7 months, which is
not far from today’s figures at Harvard and
|most other institutions of higher learning.

Paris.—(IP)—The cost of living for, stu-
|dents at the University of Paris is not to

Annual Convention of the South
Atlantic Modern Language Asso-
ciation will meet here.
3:00 P. M.—General Assembly in
Chambers Auditorium.
4:00 P. M.—Departmental meet-
ings. ‘
} 8:00 P. M.—Meeting in Cham-
bers Auditorium. ‘
The bequest, provided for in the will of|| Saturday, Nov. 29—Business session
the late Henry Clay Folger, of New York, | of the Language Association at
provides that the trustees of Amherst aa 9:00 A. M.
|

ducts the O. Henry Memorial Short Story
Contest. Pal

Amherst, Mass.—(IP)—One of the larg- |
est and most unusual endowments ever be- |
queathed an American college of arts and |
sciences has just been accepted by the cor-
poration of Amherst College here.

lege shall administer the new Folger Sunday, Nov. 30 — Thanksgiving
Shakespeare Memorial Library in Washing- Service at Vespers at 6:00 P. M.
ton, D. C, and shall pay the college one- Professor Beaty will speak. Spe-
quarter of the annual net income of the | cial. music.
fund of $10,000,000 left for the maintenance | Tuesday, Dec. 2—Literary Societies
of the building. | in respective halls.

A clause in the will provided that if Am- | Wednesdiy, Dee, 3 — rea er
herst did not accept the gift, it should be | Student Sunday School Teachers

|

transferred to the University of Chicago. ye fed ets hig Has a Patri ead
Amherst already has appointed a commit- | a ar Xd ‘ ng HY) Tai Ek
tee of distinguished alumni to formulate plans | Wabeseteens cs Sete Seer eters

for the operation of the new, memorial 1i- ai ir P P P fawil
brary. Included on this committee is Sena- See tete ommce a temeeet fest enee

tor-Elect Dwight W. Morrow, former Am- z
bassador to Mexico. ‘ Miss Ruth Siler Is
New Voice Teacher

The library building, of white marble, and
to be completed in 1931, will be situated in
the vicinity of the Congressional Library,
on a spot diagonally across the street from
the block on which the new United States
Supreme Court building is to be located. It
will include a small Shakespearean theatre,
and will hold Mr. Folger’s famous collection
of Shakespeareana of more than 20,000 vol-
umes. 4

.

Voice lessons are being given at Davidson
College by Miss Ruth Siler, who comes
to Davidson every Friday and holds classes
which last between forty-five minutes and
}an hour,

Miss Siler, who 1s on the faculty of
Queens-Chicora College, very well
equipped for teaching. Besides studying in-
tensively and extensively, she has directed
| glee clubs and was"for a while a professor
lat Erskine College.

At present Miss Siler is teaching the fun-
damentals of voice development. She
|stressing breathing, enunciation, vowel

_—_—_—_ | sounds, and the reading of notes. She

Aurora, N. Y.—(1IP)—For the purpose is unusually good in developing voices which
of bringing literary artists, editors and | have had no previous training, and she brings
critics of national and international reputa- | out the best that is in the voice. This class
tion to Wells College here, the English De-| is also very helpful to those intending to
partment of the college has organized a lit-| be speakers, since it emphasizes breathing
erary club. land enunciation, There are about six pupils

present time.

is

Chicago—(1TP)—Princeton University al-
umni, meeting here, appointed a committee
to find out if Princeton’s scholastic stand-
ards are too high, and if they are keeping
football material away from the school.

|

1S

‘enrolled at the
Several free lectures already have been |

arranged, The first will be given on Novem- |
ber 17 by Mary Ellen Chase, essayist and |
short story writer, who won the Pictorial |
Review prize last spring. Her subject will |
be “Thomas Hardy,”

THANKSGIVING CLASSIC

(Contin(ued from page 3)
been of the highest type, and he has devel-
Lae into not only a good field general and

Others who will speak for the club are! excellent passer, but also into a line plunger

it. Russia is Europeanized ! | be compared with that of the students of the
Alyosha, the ,isciple of Zossima! Like | United States.
millions of his countrymen he would lose} A student in the Latin quarter here can
himself in the realms of the supernatural and | five on $230 for two semesters, and his tui-
metaphysical. It is impossible for a saint to| tion, unless he takes technical training,
escape the petitions of earth folk. With heart | $5.60 for the year.
bound in love for the aesthetic, Alyosha meets |
the call of lust and passion, for since he is | Norman, Okla.—(IP)—Because a heavy
a Russian they call strongly to him. Forsak- | enrollment has placed class room space at
ing his pilgrimage for good in celibacy he a premium at Oklahoma University here,
must cast his lot in a home of his own. His | officials are considering making use of the
problems and those of his neighbors await | large space underneath the seats in Memo-
solution. There is.a great work to be done; | rial Stadium as extra classrooms.
a wonderful work will be done. Russia looks It is believed that a wall may be built
to the future! | along the outer side of the big athletic plant,
It is true that the average reader is too} and the 50x250 feet thus inclosed may he
lazy to enjoy Brothers Karamazov. The | divided into smaller rooms.
book is not pleasant; it is far from joyful; |
it is never hilarious. Like Russia it ofttimes |
moves with a preponderance and heaviness
that betides disaster; disaster comes, many

is

New York—(IP)—That William S. Por-
ter, who wrote under the pen name, O Henry,
was known to have a “yellow streak” is the

Henry Goddard Leach, editor of the Forum,
and Thornton Wilder, author of “The Bridge
of -San. Luis Rey.”

London, England—(TP)—The uproar with
which England received the Labor govern-
ment’s move to discontinue wreathing the
tomb of the Unknown Soldier as an aid to
“eradication of war memories” was brought
to a climax when Rudyard Kipling published
a poem bitterly criticizing the move, and
charging the government with treason.

Ann Arbor, Mich—(IP)—A survey of
the earnings of more than 1,400 professional
and business women, which was made by
the University of Wisconsin in co-operation
with the National Federation of Business
and Professional Women’s Clubs, has re-
vealed that a college education is worth a
considerable monetary value to women who
intend to engage in careers.

land running back of the highest type. His
| work in backing up the line has been good
jalso, and he is one of the best all-around
backs on the squad,

Thad Brock, guard, had the honor of cap
taining a Davidson football team as a Junior,
jand that year won honors
| choice for All-State end. This season he
|has been shifted to guard in order to fill a
gaping hole there, and his work in that po-
sition has earned him a likely berth on many
All-States. He won nation-wide fame in ‘“Be-
lieve It or Not” when he ran 102 yards
against Duke last Thanksgiving but failed to
score. Besides playing hisposition in the line,
| he drops back to do much of the punting and
| some passing.

Joe McCall, halfback, is one of the fastest

as unanimous

Literary Societies

There will be an interesting program given
by the Eumenean Society on Tuesday, De-
cember 2. A talk on principles of parlia-
mentary law is the first thing on the pro-
gram, This will be given by Marmaduke
Norfleet. Follownig this, current events will
be discussed by Roger Enloe. The program
will be closed by a book review by Bill
Ward. The address on parliamentary law
will be of particular interest to the mem-
bers of the society and should prove to be
of great value.

The newly elected officers of the Phil-
anthropic Literary Society will be installed
at its meeting on December 2. The follow-
ing officers were recently elected: Presi-
dent, Charles Kraemer; vice-president, Hor-
ace’ Ryburn; secretary, Duncan McBryde;
first supervisor, Stuart Noblin; first critic,
Wiles DuBose, and second critic, J. O.
Mann. These men will serve until the first
of March.

halfbacks in North Carolina circles, and is at
present leading the Davidson ball-toters in
\total yards gained from scrimmage. His speed
jand side-step make him a dangerous man in
)a broken field. He has turned in at least one
| scintillating run every game this season ex-
| cept in the Duke fracas. It is likely that he,
too, will receive wide All-State mention.

After supposedly finishing his intercol-
legiate career last Thanksgiving, Tom Bro-
hard came back to take advantage of an-
other year of eligibility and became a mem-
ber of Davidson’s famous four-letter back-
field. He has shown more drive consistently
than just about any back on the squad and
hits a line like the proverbial pile driver.

Hub Covington has played tackle this year
in the same hard-hitting fashion which has
| characterized his work before. He has been
in the starting line-ups in nearly every game
this year, and has always scen plenty of

service.

Jim Proctor, ideally built for an end, has
taken full advantage of his build and has de-
veloped into a fine all-around wingman. As
running mate of Brock last year and Brown
this year, his work has been as consistent as
| that of either, and he has more than upheld
his share of the work,
| Bill Mason, center, was likewise blessed
| by nature for taking care of his position. Flis
| play in the Cerolinaggame was all that could
|he asked of a pivot man and played a fine
game against Lipscomb, Tar Heel center,
who has” received prominent mention for
Southern honors.

Charlie Parker, guard, is the only mem-
| ber of the octet who had not previously won
his letter, but his work in the N, C. State
game cinched him a starting berth, which
he has proceeded to fill and hold against
strong competition. He is built low and has
speed enough to come out of the line and
get in the irterference, as required by the
Davidson style of offense.

F. M. Pridgen, Jr., who completed his
course in three years this summer, is lo-
cated in Nashville, Tenn., with the Equitable
Life Assurance Society.

Seyenteen Eastern colleges took part last
spring in a poetry reading contest, the latest
of intercollegiate “sports.”

oe

iD
“DRUGS”

times. One is glad when he has finished the
book, but he immediately wants to pick it
up and start it anew. Its nine hundred and
seventy-five pages were read at two sittings.

statement made here recently by Miss
Blanche Colton Williams, head of the Eng-
lish Department at Hunter College, who is
a short story critic, and who annually con-

‘College graduates were found to earn an
average of $346 more a year than their less
educated sisters.

“SPECIAL”
One-dollarFraternity and College Seal Paper

o
“SODA”

Only one regret comes when the work is
‘cempletely digested. That Dostoyevsky might
see the Russia of today! Only one person

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA

could appreciate with him the emancipation
of his people, and that individual is Alyosha,
the pure in heart!

J. W. McCutchan.

Davidson Theatre

NINE MEN INITIATED

(Continued from page 1)

rious colleges and universities of the coun-
try and ranks high among honorary fra-
ternities and, as it is so constructive in its
policy. It furnishes the college men of the
United States a means of finding out
about the foreign powers of the world. In
this matter a more friendly feeling will
be fostered between the United States and
the other nations of the World through
the medium of greater knowledge.

America rapidly is taking from Italy the
reputation for being the home of the manu-
facture of macaroni. Importations of the food
products from Italy are being reduced a
million pounds a year, and our exports of
macaroni are now six times our imports of
that commodity.

Monday and Tuesday, December 1, 2
“DuBarry’s Woman of Passion”
with
NORMA TALMAGE
Wednesday, December 3
“Lottery Bride”
JEANETTE McDONALD
Thursday, December 4
“Laughter”
with
NANCY CARROLL
Friday, December 5
“Remote Control”
with
WILLIAM HAINES

DAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AA AAA AA AA de

A limited number of boxes

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

—10c—
WHITE DRUG CO.,, Inc.

“SUNDRIES”

ba fA

SHIRTS

SHOES

STETSON “D” STORE

PHONE 206
FEATURING

for

For The Chricinas Holidays
TUXEDOS ;
Ready-to-Wear
at

$25.00

TIES

CLOTHES *.

