8

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 6, 1930

After Graduation --- Salesmanship ?

BOND BUSINESS ATTRACTS
MANY COLLEGE MEN TODAY

Complete ‘Survey Made for Infor-
mation of Men Contemplating
Entrance into this Field

The bond business has many character-
istics that appeal to the young college
graduate. These are substantial and
worthwhile, but they should not be con-
fused with the fictitious qualities some-
times erroneously attributed to invest-
ment banking. It is not a business of
large returns for little work, of easy
hours, continued golf, abundant leisure
and automatic entree to companionship
with the rich and great. Men who have
entered investment banking with this ro-
mantic illusion have been painfully
awakened. No business excels investment
banking in agreeable surroundings and as-
sociations within the business. The per-
sonnel of almost all bond houses is of
educated, likable individuals. Externally,
the bond man’s contacts are chiefly with
intelligent persons, with the wealthy and
successful, both in the selling of securi-
ties to investors and in the financing of
corporations and governmental bodies. In-
vestment banking rewards the able man
generously. Its work is largely construc-
tive and so varied that it can rarely be-
come uninteresting or stale to an active
mind. But the price it demands for suc-
cess is, as in any other worthwhile voca-
tion, that a man be interested and per-
sistent in his work.

Probably the greatest thing the bond
business has to offer the colleges is In-
dependence in Opportunity. The average
bond house embraces so many different
activities and departments that it af-
fords a wide choice of jobs. Although,
usually but not always, promoted to part-
nerships and the highest positions, such as
_ buyers, branch office managers, syndi-
“ cate managers, etc., are men experienced
in selling. Most houses do a great deal of
research work. Economists, statisticians, |
anayists and various specialists are em-
ployed for this important work. Morever,
there is much responsible accounting and
record work in the cashier's, the book-
keeping, the listing, auditing, control, fis-
cal agent's, purchasing-and-sale, and oth-
er departments, or combinations of de-
partments. Many houses have trading de-
partments where men keep close tab on
the prices of and deal in the securities in
which their house and its customs are in-
terested. From the foregoing it should be
apparent that there is a position in the
bond business for almost every degree of
ability, temperament or imagined tem-
perament,

Practically all bond houses put a bégin-
ner into training. It is difficult to cite
figures, because conditions vary widely,
but beginners commonly receive from
$75 to $150 a month during this prepara-
tion period, which may run from one to
three months, or a year or so,

Here is opened a wide and, in many
respects, a new field to young college men.
Investment banking is one of the most
varied of all vocations. It is both a bus-
iness and a profession. It enters into vir-
tually every kind of major business and
govermental enterprise, since it finances
great national governments, and small
school districts, huge Public utility and
railroad systems, industries, and farm
loans. It is one the largest merchandising
businesses in the world. On one hand, the
business of investment banking is finan-
cial adviser to the business and govern-
ments whose securities it buys; on the
other, to the millions of large and
smail investors to whom it sells those
securities, It must constantly study every

form of business and government that
seeks long-term credit, and, as a con-
sequence, it is one of the most varied and
interesting of vocations. Above all, it is
an essentaial and honorable business.

This article is an extract from the bul-
letin, “An Analysis of Investment Bank-
ing for Vocational Guidance,” published
by the Investment Bankers’ Association
of America,

On the Vocational Guidance table at
the “Y” room can be found a pamphlet
taking up the branches of. Investment

Salesmanship
By Charles M. Schwab

A man educated in a great college or
university is ten times the man who has
not been educated if he will learn that
the education in a college or university is
not different from education in a work-
shop. You cannot be aristocratic unless
you earn the right to aristocracy. And the
aristocracy of the future is not one of
wealth or university’ education, but the
aristocracy of the men who have done
something for themselves and their fel-
low men. And that is what will make the
real men,

That is the lesson that you have to
learn, and that is the lesson so many of
our college boys do nof learn. They go
into a great industrial or other establish-
ment and they imagine because they have
a diploma from Davidson or Princeton or
Georgia Tech or Yale, or some other col-
lege or university, that they are in a dif-
ferent plane from other men. Unless you
get this idea out of your heads, you are
going to learn the sorriest lesson you ever
learned because it won’t succeed.

Now to be more practical; go at your
work. You may not “find” yourself the
first year. You may. start at work that
you think will not be agreeable to you. Do
not hesitate to change. If you find that it
is not according to your tastes and ulti-
mate ambitions, then change and go into
something that is more pleasant.

No man can be sucecssful if he does not
find the work he is doing pleasant. No
man can ever do a thing well that he is
not interested in. In your classes you find
that you do best in the things you like.
When you start in life, if you find you are
wrongly placed, don’t hesitate to change,
but don’t change because troubles and
difficulties arise, You must meet and over-
come and conquer them. And in meeting
and overcoming and conquering them you
will make yourself stronger for the future.
Let us suppose that you become a crane-
man. Suppose you become a clerk in a
lawyer's office. Give the best that is in
you. Let nothing stand in the way of
your going on. a

Advertising Is
Popular Field

By Stanley Resor, Who’s Who in
America, 1926-1927

In any section of the advertising busi-
ness, the novice will start at a nominal
salary, comparable to that paid for similar
work in any business, This is equally true
whether the beginner starts by selling
space for a publisher or by working in
the advertising department of a depart-
ment store or of a manufacturer, or as
an apprentice in any department of a
general advertising agency.

To rise to the highest position in any
of these forms of work it is necessary to
do more than develop any specialized tal-
ent one may possess (such as writing or
illustrating). In addition, one must acquire
wide business knowledge and sound busi-
ness judgment—qualities developed only
by a serious study of every business prob-
lem with which one comes into contact.

Representatives of publications or of
firms dealing in other forms of adver-
tising such as street-car cards, painted
bulletins and so forth may rise to become
branch managers or directors of the con-
cerns with which they are associated with
salaries ranging from $2,500 to $25,000 a
year. Ultimately they may become exec-
utives of these companies with a financial
interest in them. ‘

In the general advertising agencies, the
salaries of beginners will climb as they
advance through the various departments
to work of a less routine nature and of
greater responsibility. The incomes of the
ablest members of the largest agencies
are comparable to the professional earn-
ings of the leaders in law and medicine.
They are not so large, on the other hand,
as the earnings of leaders in finance and
manufacture.

The advertising business, however, is
growing rapidly in both the volume and
the importance of its work. Opportunities
are steadily multiplying. And no large
and successful advertjsing agency can
afford to be a “one-man” concern in re-
wards any more than in work, It tends
rather to become a association of men
sharing the fruit of their co-operation.

Consequently, although advertising does

FELLOWS!

You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at

‘Henderson’s Filling Station

DAVIDSON, N. C.

4

: RECORD CLEARANCE SALE
Victor, Brunswick and Columbia Records go-
ing at Reduced Prices until stock is reduced.

715c Records, 3 for $1.00
W.S. HENDERSON

“DRUGS”

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

SPECIAL

One pound College Seal paper
and envelopes—Only $1.00
A complete drug store
at your service,

WHITE DRUG Co.

Make Our Store Your Store

“SODA”

“SUNDRIES”

Banking in detail.

THE SERVICE OF LIFE
SALESMEN

By S. S. Huegner, Ph.D., Professor of
Commerce, Wharton School of
Finance and Commerce

In choosing a life’s vocation, two con-
siderationations of outstanding importance
present themselves, namely (1) assurance
of a decent remuneration for industry and
ability, and (2) the opportunity for real
service to the community. Mere remuner-
ation, in the absence of a constant feel-
ing that a fundamentally useful service is
being rendered to the community, cannot
but lead ultimately to a feeling of dis-
satisfaction on the part of a university-
trained man. Fortunately the Life In-
surance vocation combines both oppor-
tunities to an unusual degree.

I have been invited to comment briefly
on the service ideal only, and I am happy
to do so. To my mind, there are few vo-

tions, if any, which offer to the prac-
Aisne a greater opportunity for service
to the American home—the cornerstone
of Society—than Life Insurance.

More specifically, Life Insurance deals
with the appraisal of life values for bus-
iness and family purposes, and the cap-
italization of that value with a Life In-
surance bond. In business, Life Insur-
ance serves the purpose of creating and
maintaining credit, and of protecting the
business undertaking against loss through
death of the galvanizing life force that
makes the capital assets productive. With
respect to the home, it constitutes the
very foundation for the future in the
great majority of instances. It inculcates,
systematizes and enforces thrift. It gives
absolute investment security to the
savings. It frees the mind of the famly
head from the greatest source of econom-
ic worry and fear, and thus increases his

not offer the opportunities that manufac-
turing does to build great fortunes, it
does offer in proportion to the moderate
size of the industry, an unusually large
number of attractive and reasonably
lucrative positions.

This article is an extract from an article
in “An Outline of Careers” published by
Geo. H. Doran Co, For more detailed in-
formation a copy of this book is available
at the Vocational Buidance table at the
“Y” rooms,

INSURANCE
TO THE COMMUNITY

vocational initiative. It represents the
most convenient as well as the most sys-
tematic and secure sinking-fund method
whereby to provide regularly out of
current income for the great oblagations
of the future. Were Life Insurance uni-
versally and adequately used, the harrow-
ing problems dealt with by sociologists
would be largely solved. The gold-brick
specialist would also be largely deprived
of the vast mass of victims on whom he
now so freely feeds.

But the main thought I wish to convey
to those who may be contemplating. the
Life Insurance vocation is the fact that
few persons buy Life Insurance on their
own initiative. It has always been that
way, and over-the-counter Life Insur-
ance has proven a dismal failure, in the
absence of compulsion, so far as a wide-
spread application of the beneficent in-
fluence of Life Insurance is concerned.
Here is where the great opportunity for
service presents itself. It requires a sales-
man to create the desire for Life In-
surance, or to bring the matter to a
speedy and wise decision where some de-
sire already exists. The Life Insurance
salesman, therefore, supplies an incom-
parable service to the average home. He
who writes five or ten millions of Life
Insurance in the course of a life’s work,
and always in a strictly ethical and well-
informed manner, has performed a crea-
tive service.

This article is an extract from an article
published in March, 1928, issue of the
Lantern, Evening School publication of
the Wharton School of Finance,

COLONEL SCOTT
(Continued from page 1)

On the 4th of July a swimming meet will
be held in which there will be various
aquatic sports and contests. Visitors Day
will be on the 16th of July, at which time
there will be a track meet and several other
field events. Later on in the period there will
be a two day outing, when the students sleep
in tents and engage in night manoeuvers.

During the summer the 12 best marksmen
will be chosen and sent to Camp Perry in
Ohio to compete with similiar teams from
over the whole United States.

Besides the Davidson men who are going
to Fort McClellan, B. M. Drake will spend
a part of his summer at Edgewood Arsenal
to study the gases used in fighting.

$29.50
The Spring Holidays

Spring furnishings.

STETSON “D” STORE

Oppose Campus

order for that Spring Suit. Complete Line of

Sincerely,

RAY HARRISON

$34.50

are Near. Place your

Monday and Tuesday, March 10, 11

“The Love Parade”

Chevalier

Wednesday, March 12
“Vagabond Lover”
ith

wii
RUDY VALLE

Davidson Theatre

VILMA

Thursday, March 13
“A Lady to Love”
with

BANKY

| Friday, March 14

“Let’s Go Places”
Saturday, March 15

“Vengence”
with
JACK HOLT
