N

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 20, 1930

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly ‘For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
iegiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

_—~
Z. 3 V. LONG fate Editor-in-Chi
E. H. McCALL. fe i toak pores
EDITORIAL STAFF
. B. BLACK Managing Editor
i Wo MoCUTCHANS .iecc icc. col. Sitecseaed Managing Editor
. C. RAGIN . Managing Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN. Athletic Editor
J. V. D. MIDDLETON............---.--.- Assignment Editor
J. F. PRESTON ‘eature Editor
i L. BROWN ...-. Feature Editor
.»F. JARRATT. A iate Editor
F. D. MILLER -A i Editor
C. M. PRATT. iate Editor
4 BUSINESS STAFF
. A. CANNON....
Lite Been Wabscviption. Mar,
A. J. BAKER a .----Solicitor
P. M. CONWAY Solicitor
SUFISM ORINNON ES Bole Ns Soa eee rena rae Solicitor
- O. MANN Solicitor
. E. RUFF. py Pea Solicitor
J. L. SEVIER Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
. S. HEEFNER ......... President

E
Wis C MRAGING Sisciicsoesiios cL seciics RISER V [Oe DEMBIME RT
; es We MIDDLETON ...__....-...-.-_- Secretary-Treasurer
. C. MATTHEWS Wg ONREIN

p. Ke MARTIN, . C Ww. F SPENCER
D. 9. STEPHENSON JOHN M. MMROWN

R. F. NORTON G, P, PARDINGTON
NB. DICK: . MATTHEWS, W. H.

, RE. DWELLE,’E. C.

=
x
9
>
2

FEBRUARY 20, 1930

THE VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
Dr. W. W. Ellsworth deserves a fine audience
tonight as he lectures on “The Times of Queen
Elizabeth.” Seven-thirty in Chembers Auditorium.
It will be worth your while. ;

N. C. State, Duke, and Carolina—three tough
assignments for Gloomy Monk’s Basketeers. We
don’t feel like offering any prediction about those
games. Best o’ Luck to the Jungaleers.

Glee Club activities in full swing remind us that
therein lies a great advertisement forthe college.
Support these song birds to the limit. It’s real serv-
ice they’re rendering.

Baseball looming in the days ahead brings joy to
many a fellow who just can’t forsake the thrill of
feeling willow smite horsehide, despite football and
the rest. When warm days begin to roll around,
baseball alone gives that satisfied feeling.

THE DAVIDSONIAN FOR LIFE

Last week in the columns of the Alumni
Page apeared the. suggestion that each out-
going Senior leave behind him his life sub-
scription to The Davidsonian, thereby as-
suring the fact that student activities and
college programs will always be known. to
him, and that the closest possible bond of
association with actual campus life will be
maintained despite the limits of time and
space. It sems to us that such a plan should

d

consideration necessary can be figured very
reasonably. Certainly, the comparatively
small sum invested in such a thing as per-
petuating contact with one’s college should
not stand in the way of a single man. It is
not difficult to conjecture as to the benefits
in future years of such an action. The ideal
time to carry the business of forming the
connecting link through to completion is at
the end of the Senior year.

_ Many advantages of lining up‘for a life-
time subscrpition were given in, the article
last week, and they are certainly significant
ones. Intensified knowledge and interest of
alumni, growth in subscription lists of the
paper and subsequent incentive to student
editors to issue a better sheet, greater pub-
licity for the college, financial aid to busi-
ness staffs, and general propagation of col-
lege principles and spirit were all mentioned
as worthwhile considerations. They speak
for themselves.

Should the dream of the Alumni Secretary
evolve into reality and result in the publica-
tion of a regular Alumni Magazine, of
course the Alumni Page in The Davidsonian
would be discontinued. This fact, however,
would in no wise detract from the paper in
the eyes of its readers. The news of par-
ticular interest in alumni circles would find
expression in the magazine, while the week-
ly newspaper would continue its function as
the recorder of all student activities and
campus life. This survey should be a source
of lasting pleasure to the graduate as well
as to the current student.

Think it over—Seniors particiularly. It’s
_ an idea with fine possibiltiies.

LASTING TRUTH

Harry Rimmer held his audience spell-
bound at every service during his two-week
stay at the First Presbyterian Church in
Charlotte, while he gave them a firmer basis
for their faith and championed the religion
of the Nazarene as the only enduring thing
of the ages. We disagree with The Char-
lotte Observer that Mr. Ribber’s success
lies in his ability as “a pulpit entertainer.”
His accomplishments throughout the land
testify to his gift as a human interpreter of
the Scriptures, and the unaffected sincerity
of his methods cannot be questioned. People
never cease to thirst after the truth. That
is just what Mr. Rimmer gave them. His
is the task of a crusader in a day of doubt
and conflict. His is the task of showirig that,
in the true light of the inspired writings, the
conflicts do not exist. His is the task of fac-
ing with imperishable weapons the insidious
ideals which threaten to submerge the pres-
ent generation.

MARSHALLING ALUMNI STRENGTH

For the last seven days Captain Norton
G. Pritchett has represented Davidson Col-
lege at enthusiastic gatherings of college
alumni in leading cities of Georgia and
Florida. During the coming weeks, Dr.
Walter Lingle will journey into the North,
meeting Davidson alumni of that section
around the table of fellowship. These trips,
while by no means new to alumni circles, are
fast gaining in favor and in efficiency. They
are filling a tremendous need of the insti-
tution, and demand hearty co-operation in
all quarters.

It is a source of inspiration and gratifi-
cation to old sons of the college to have the
opportunity of hearing the policies of their
Alma Mater explained, and illuminatingly,
to them. It is with deep satisfaction that
they again assemble under the name and
spirit of the institution which fostered their
undergraduate days. While old ties are be-
ing strengthened, new ideals of service and
relationship are being comprehended.

Davidson’s contact with her alumni has
been none too good in the past. The college
has suffered because of it. One of the es-
sentials of any successful college system is
complete knowledge of and full co-operation
with the men who, having ended their span
of personal contact, may now lend aid from
their positions in the outside world. It is
toward the realization of this end that Dav-
idson’s alumni office is now striving, more
than ever before, with the assurance that
ultimate results will be of inestimable value

to future college plans.

Captain Pritchett will make particular ap-
peals to high and preparatory school boys
who have not, made their choice of a high-
er seat of learning at which to pursue their
studies. In this way, it is hoped to bring a
number of strong new men into the student
body from sources which up’ till now have
not been tapped very heavily. There are
splendid possibilities in such a phase of the
work,

Reports coming in from the initial meet-
ings of the southern tour bear out all pre-
dictions that revival of interest and incen-
tive to more definite support from former
students would result from the efforts now
under way.

SIGNIFICANT DECISIONS

Seniors especially are thinking in serious
terms these days of conditions and situa-
tions a year hence. Those who have already
determined to follow a definite course of
preparation for assuming the mantle of the
business or professional world after grad-
uation are to be congratulated. They have a
corner stone in position at least. There are
many last year men, not only°at Davidson
but at all colleges, who have been unable,
for one reason or another, to make the final
decision, are still feeling themselves out and
exerting every effort to arrive at the right
goal. Men in this class need every possible
aid’ which may contribute to the solution of
their problem.

The Davidson Y, M. C. A. has always en-
deavored to conduct a worthwhile voca-
tional guidance department, hoping that
some men from the large group interested
would really find tangible good in study and
application of the ideas offered by this
branch of the student work. Results noted
in years gone by have shown the value of
efficient systems of the nature mentioned,
so, following the custom established and
approved, the Y. M. C. A. again is providing
useful information and means for the fulfill-
ment of the needs of out-going men.

Beginning this week, The Davidsonian
will conduct a section devoted to. various :|’

phases of the professional and _ business

fields, and it is hoped that every student will °

find such features to be of real benefit, as
he considers prospective lines of work.

IW. M&GUTCHAN

a

Perhaps it is not the most important “scoop” of
the week from a national standpoint, but the
arrest of John Morgan certainly looms up as a
state problem. Extradition papers have been issued,
and his return from Florida is expected daily.
After thirty-eight years have elapsed he is to face
trial for a brutal “axe’ murder. Outstanding in
the investigation and arrest was a young attorney,
J. Allan Austin by name, whose uncle was the
murdered man. At the time of the crime, Austin,
then a boy, swore to bring the assassin or assas-
sins to justice. His vow has been realized. Such
oaths remind one of the “vendetta,” sworn over
the shed blood of a close relation. Sometimes, it
looks as if thirty-eight years of law-abiding life
would be sufficient to blot out almost any offense.

A young imposter, passing ‘under the name of
Von Benz who is a representative of the Daimer-
Benz Automobile Corporation of Stutgart, Ger-
many, very nearly succeeded in marrying a rich
widow in Miami. He was thought to be an entrant
in the motor speed trials which are to be held next
month in that city. It appears that the husbandless
matron was not the only one “taken in.” For-
tunately for all concerned he became uneasy and
returned to his den in Chicago’s underworld. We
do not attempt to pass as a bar of justice, but the
official, who would sentence him to be strapped in
a streamline racer with the throttle open for a
few minutes, would earn our respect. Such a ver-
dict would doubtless contradict the assertion that
“American justice is slow.”

Dr. William Moser Brown, formerly a professor
at Washington and Lee University and anti-Smith
Democrat nominee for the governorship of Vir-
ginia, has our sympathy. We have always doubted
Doctor Brown’s eagerness to step forward as a
gubernatorial candidate. In most minds he was
tricked into believing that his actions were in the
form of a duty which he owed to his native state.
Now, after the dust from the political dirt has
settled, he,is offered a minor piece of the pie, being
appointed to a minor position in the legal pro-
cesses which every state has and no man seemeth
to know the purpose of. By far the best would
have been a plan to give him a chair of instruc-
tion either in his former school or in the state
university. He knows something about education.
Nobody knows much about politics.

Educators will be astonished to learn that there
are 121,532 white school children in the state of
North Carolina who attend schools which have
terms of less than eight months. These figures
were recently issued from the bureau of public
instruction in Raleigh. Although this is a decided
improvement over past years, yet it does not in-
clude the number who attend no school what-
soever. A state has a right to boast of its good
roads, its civic organizations, its athletic and col-
legiate facilities, and its revenue to the Federal
Government, but the education of its citizens of
tomorrow is most important. Recent manufactur-
ing developments have brought an influx of a
more uneducated class. Let North Carolina beware
lest it lose some of its prestige in other lines.

Fire was on the cry of every lip when the siren,
situated over the Students’ Emporium, broke forth
in a series of hoots last Monday night. There
were no shiny brass poles for the firemen to slide
down, nor were there prancing white mountains of
equine flesh ready to be harnessed. Still, students
managed to slide from their dressing gowns, and
in an instant the fire-house was emptied of all of
equipment. Records were made in rushing to the
flames, even a few casualties being reported. No
single name could be mentioned as outstanding,
nor can anyone be accused of being spectacular. It
was all spectacular. Braving fire and smoke the
students pressed on with their chemicals. Echoes
of the siren could still be—heard_in.the. distance.
The scarlet flames gave one last effort and began
to subside, dying in time to leave a few coals for
the firemen to work on. Most fortunately, all the
children were out and what was left of the house
could never burn. It was over!

Would-be columnists have a hard time. O. O.
McIntyre tells of a man who checked up on his
(i. e. McIntyre’s) tales of his boyhood days in
Gallipolis, Ohio. The native who was questioned
pleaded ignorance, and “O. O.”'lit a Murad. There
is a good reason why we have never re to

‘our stamping ground. Namely, we do not wish to
‘be bothered by questions which we arouse our-

selves. To learn of it it would be necessary to.
question a native of the place, and it is... well,

‘it’s a rather small place, and the dwellers there

are very rare. .. not in the sense of begksteak,
however. Ask me anothert*And then guess. jel

This week I will present a voice from the past.
I received a letter from one of last year’s grad-
uates, J. .R. Covington, a member of the illus-
trious Class of ’29, in which he enclosed the fol-
lowing playlet with the instructions to do what I
saw fit with it. Well, I couldn’t find anything to do
with it, so I thought that I might as ‘well run it in
our local paper. This column is a great argument
for a college education, because it shows the deep
thoughts that are indulged in by a man who has
completed his college career. Here it is:

SALOON SALLIES
or
HOW RADIO CAME TO THE FROZEN
NORTH

A Playful Playlet

Scene: Broadcasting station of the Yeller Dog
Herald, whose slogan is, “All the dirt it pays to
print.” Yeller Dog Saloon, Yeller Dog in the frost
bit North. :

Characters: Low if any.

Announcer: Howdy, strangers of the radio pub-
lic. You are trying to tune out station F RO Z E
the Yeller Dog Herald Station in the Yeller Dog
Saloon, Yeller Dog in the frost bit North, broad-
casting on a freezincy of thirteen tri-cycles in
spite of the authority of associated radio com-
missions, including the Scandanavian.

We are about to bring you the correct time
thru the courtesy of the Must Rust Watch Co.,
spelled M-U-S-T R-U-S-T. When the dog yelps
it will be exactly Thursday, February 20th, North-
ern time.

Please stand by for thirty or forty minutes till
we catch a dog. Are you ready? Waste time.
(Dog bark in offing) Exactly Thursday, February
20th, Norther1?’ time.

Now ladies,’ gentlemen; prospectors, bartenders,
and Sourdoughs, we present a program direct from
the Yeller Dog Saloon. It’s a great crowd we have
here tonight. Nome Nellie is entertaining the
crowd with a symbolic dance. Listen closely and
you may hear the cymbals crash.

We have an announcement now of interest to
all citizens of the Yukon. A bulletin hot from the
Lizzard Gulch Society Sheet reporting the re-
sults of the election just held under the auspices
of the Yukon Vice and Gold Company. The meet-
ing was the scene of the election of new officers
of that ancient and awful saciety. We take pleas-
ure in-announcing the result. The company, as
you may or may not know, has only one officer,
the vice-president. The vice-president not only
promotes vice but automatically gets all the gold.
Inthe election tonight Snake Heart Sam McGilli-
cudy won out and the funerals of the defeated can-
didates will be conducted from the Black Eye
Saloon in Lizzard Gulch tomorrow.

Well, folks, we have a special treat for you to-
night. We have as guess artist, that is we guess
he is an artist, Prof. Josephus Ukeepus Long, for-
merly of Joseph’s college in the states. Mr. Long
is a great admirer of our esteemed poet, Mr.
Service. We are all great admirers of Service here
in the North. You can hear the crowd down in
the saloon yelling for service now. In fact, almost
any place we go these days we find that service
is a by-word, we buy if we can get service. Mr.
Long has unkindly consented to recite for us that
stirring porum “The Shooting of Dan McGraw,”
with words and gestures.

(Time passes while Dan is shot.)

Announcer: Thank you, Mr. Long. Now, folks,
we give you the official weather forecast for the
rest of the night. For February: snow, ice, and
cold in the southern portions and in the north:
cold, ice, and snow. In Chipmunk Flats the sale of
blow torches for thawing hands and faces are un-
usually highs Sterno Canned Heat is still in de-
mand for breakfast food and now your local bar-
tender says “Look up your nearest barkeeper and
he'll make a sot of you.” (Sounds of conflict in
offing.) And now folks we have a real treat for
you in the way of a little unplanned fight. Standby
and we will give it to you day by day. Now let’s
see who's fighting. There is Black Bear Ben of
Red Center and ... Pig Iron Paul the Cocaine
Canyon Curse. Folks, this is a fight—Ben has
landed a couple of nice blows with beer mugs.
Paul has come back with a singing sock to his
beard—no good there, Paul, too much padding—
now Ben is circling around looking for an open-
ing, but there is no chance, all the doors and win-
dows are locked. Now he swings in with IMs knife
and it breaks like a match against Paul’s temple—
Paul is mad now he is swinging a bottle against
Ben’s head—it’s smashed, that is the bottle, “and
now Ben swings in with a chair—they clinch—
they are out of it, so is the chair—now they are
both trying to get the same table, they did—Paul
got it first and gave it to Ben—on the head—things
are getting confused—Ben comes back -with a

amp—he landed—Paul looks fiery—look out, there

goes the lights. (Voice trails off).
Station F RO Z E signing off at exactly-+——__-
