THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 23, 1930

DAVIDSON VS.
V. P. I.
HOME-COMING
GAME

THE SPORTS PARADE

WILDKITTENS

RUTHERFORD
FRIDAY AFTERNOON
RICHARDSON FIELD

Wildcats Meet V. P. I. in
Annual Home-coming Day
Game Here On Saturday

Gobblers Have. Lost. Two Gamee—
Dropped Tilts to Carolina and
Vanderbilt

HOOPER STELLAR PLAYER

First Game Between Rivals in
Seven Years

Renewing an ancient feud, after seven
years of peace, the V. P. I: Gobblers and
Davidson Wildcats will fight it out onthe
Richardson field Saturday afternoon in the
main event of the Home-Coming program.
One of the greatest Davidson teams of the
past decade will be in the stands rooting for
one of the greatest Davidson teams of the
present decade, to carry on where they left
off. Besides the team of 1910 many gradu-
ates, both old and young, will fill the stands,
pulling for their Alma Mater as they were
wont to do in days gone by.

In her third Southern Conference clash,
Davidson will meet a team that will extend
her to the limit to make it two victories to
one loss over Conference teams. Although
V. P. I. has lost both Conference games
that she has played so far, she has showed
scoring power and a hard charging line to
win the other two games, Roanoke and Wil-
liam and Mary.

Roanoke fought like devils to hold V. P. TI.
to a score of only 9-0 in the first game of
the season for the Gobblers. Sports writers
gave glowing reports of V. P. I.’s backfield
in that game, saying that they were a hard
playing bunch of speed demons fighting
against the great Maroon line. In the first
4juarter a bad pass from a Maroon center
on the two-yard line gave the Gobblers two
points and not until the closing minutes of
the game did V. P. I. push a marker across
the last line.

When the Gobblers met .North Carolina the
next week-end, the line came in for their
share of glory that day, forcing the Tar
Heels to take to the air to get anywhere.
V. P. L’s offense was also clicking to score
three touchdowns, enough to beat any nor-
mal team, but Carolina showered passes
which were working for long gains to double
the number of touchdowns on the Gobblers.
The Gobblers, however, threw a scare into
the, Tar Heel ranks by marching 50 yards
down the field for a touchdown in the first
three minutes of play. But immediately fol-
lowing this Carolina. turned loose a storm
of passes that completely swept the Virgin-
ians off their feet.

Following this orgy of scoring, the Gob-
blers journeyed out to Nashville to engage
Coach Dan McGugin’s Vanderbilt machine,
which turned out to be a hurricane, complete-
ly sweeping V. P. I. off their feet and run-
ning rough-shod over them for a 40-0 win.
The Gobblers were never allowed to get
started in this game, as the Commodores
directed most of the day’s work. ;

In her last engagement, V. P. I. nosed
William and Mary out by one point, barely
winning by. a 7-6 count. Nothing definite can
be lined up with reference to the compara-
tive strength of the two teams, but it is ex-
pected that-the Gobblers will bring to Da-
vidson a big team that will oughtweigh the
Wildcats and one that is anxious to. turn its
power loose after having been forced to
keep it to themselves so long.

The Gobblers’ new coaching staff has’ been
forced by graduation to build up a team of
Sophomores, who were state titleholders last
year, around Captain Hooper, clever field
general; Phil Speare, diminutive back, and
big Jim Swart, tackle. These three men are
all that is left of last year’s regulars. Hooper,
captain and quarterback, is as good a field
general as any coach could pray for, so
Coach Neal has built a formidable offense

wv

Davidson Men Are
Always Welcome
At

NORTON’S
_ BARBER SHOP

Tentative Schedule for
Cage Schedule Announced

Several Other Games to be Added to
Schedule Later

According to the latest statement of W. B.
Hancock, manager of the varsity basketball
team, the basketball schedule for the com-
ing year has not ‘been completed and many
of the dates are tentative as yet, but some
games have been definitely determined upon.

On January 8, th N. C. State may be met,
but this date has ‘not been definitely set-
tled. On January 9, Wofford will be played
at Davidson, and on the 12th, the College of
Charleston will be played here. It is hoped
that the second encoufiter with N. C. State
can be played in Charlotte on the 14th, but
it has not been decided at the present date.
The V. P. I. game to be played here on
the 24th is also in the same category.

The first extended trip that the team will
take will include games with Carolina, N. C.
State and Duke. The Carolina game is slated
for February 7, the State game for the 9th,
and the Duke game for the 10th. Their sec-
ond tour will start on the 19th, when the
team will play South Carolina in Columbia.
Then they will travel to Charleston where
Citadel will be met on the 20th, and the
College of Charleston on the 21st. This game
with the College of Charleston will conclude
the season.

This schedule is far from’ complete, for
games with smaller teams will be played be-
tween the engagements with these afore-
mentioned teams. Lenoir-Rhyne, Catawba,
Elon, and other smaller institutions will be
included on this schedule. One game may
be played before the Christmas holidays as
was the case last year.

Without going into any profound analysis }

of personality, either individual or social, it
seems evident that there are many aspects
of young men and women in which they are
similar and many in which they are differ-
ent. Any system of education that does not
keep its eyes open to both facts is certain
to be lopsided.—Herbert E. Hawkes, in The
Nation. :

around him. Along with Hooper in the
backfield, Neal will have the veteran
Speare, Hardwick, Barns, Morgan, Hall,
and Ottley for the halfback posts with Hall
and Ottley doing the greater part of the
work. Owens and Howard give Neal two
fine fullbacks, the former a last year reserve

and the latter a Sophomore.

The ends have caused the greatest trouble,
but McIntyre andi.Seamon have developed
into'two first-rate wingmen. Chalmers, Pal-
mer and Miles are other candidates for the
flank positions. A veteran tackle trio is com-
posed of Ritter, Green and Swart, and is
strengthened by Grinus, a big Sophomore.
Dykes and Stark are holding down the two
guard positions with a reserve power of
Jones and Hite. In Brown and Wolf, Neal
has two good centers that he can depend
on to come through in the pinches.

Davidson Center

GUDOY JDARONER~- CENTEFE

Buddy Gardner, center for Wildcats,
has proved to be a mainstay for the ’Cat
line in games played this year. He dis-
played a great defense in the Citadel
game last Saturday.

Freshman Gridsters to
Play Rutherford Friday

Wildkittens to Play Minus Services
of West and Brown, Backfield
Aces

Tomorrow the Freshman Wildkittens, will
engage in their third encounter of the sea-
son when they lock horns with the strong
Rutherford team. So far the Kittens have
had more than their share of hard luck, hav-
ing lost Brown, who broke a leg in scrim-
mage with the varsity, and also West, who
has been badly hurt. Indications, however,
point to a much improved team when they
vo up against Rutherford.

In their first game the
Freshmen were completely outclassed by a
well-drilled Oak Ridge team, but on last
Friday they held a strong Wofford team to
a close 6-0 score. This would seem to indi-
cate a much stronger team and a big im-
provement.

Coach Laird has not announced his line-
up for this next game, but it is expected
that it will be composed of practically the
same men who played in the Wofford game.
While Brown and West will be out, with-

of the season,

LOOKING

"EM OVER

With W. H. Matthews

Gentlemen, they are back! Anyone
who had any doubts whatsoever about
Davidson’s football team still being
fighting Wildcats had those doubts
completely upset by that Citadel
game. For Davidson’s line consistently
outfought and outcharged one of the
best forward walls in the state of
South Carolina and set down the best
backs the Cadets had .to offer with
scant gain: in numerous tries.

All in all, it was one of the best games

While, certainly one of the best this sea-
son. The line seemed to function just a
little better, the backs seemed to hit a bit
harder, and the whole air of the squad
had just a little more confidence and fight
than it has shown since the State game

Monk Younger showed he is still
in it with the best of the coaches in
the state, for Fraley pulled two or
three plays that were entirely new
and which worked nicely. Brock’s
passing took everybody by surprise,
that being the first time he has done
anything in the backfield except kick
.this (fall. McCall had one cutback play
where he reversed his direction be-
hind the line of scrimmage that work-
ed almost perfectly. We couldn’t quite
decide whether it was intentional or
merely to escape tacklers that he cut
back, but are inclined to think the
former; we believe he knows too
much football to do anything like
leaving all his interference.

he of the number 44 on his
jersey and the shifty hips beneath

Jennings—

his

pants—gave the Davidson
little practice stopping
stepping broken field Jen-
nings ran prettier than any man we have
this fall in broken field, and
second only to little Johnny Branch in
these two states, we think. If Davidson
can handle Branch with success, a large

secondary a
a real
performer,

in sider

seen a.

portion of the problem of stopping the
Tar Heel scoring machine will be solved.
Branch has proved to be a thorn in the
side of just about every opponent that the
Carolina team has met. Ask Maryland,
Buddy Gardner and Steve’? Brown
turned in the best defensive games of
anyone on the Davidson squad last
Saturday, and merely emphasized the
great work they have been turning in
all season. Brown is quickly approach-
ing the work of Brock on end last
year, both in consistency and fight. He
is right now one of the four or five
best wingmen in Big Five circles, we
think, and he is coming along fast.

Gardner is showing the boys a thing or

who heard the gma eon the radio said it

that Davidson has turned in in quite a

1s

two about this roving center game. Those |

out by the announcer, Those wisps of
hair which just wouldn't stay under that
flat head guard were in almost every play
and figured in many of the tackles of the
game. We are anxious to see how he and
Carolina center, will. tie up
about November 15.

Lipscomb,

V. P. 1, the alma mater of Monk and
Tex, will furnish the opposition for Davy-
idson before the old grads on Home-Com-
ing Saturday. The Technicians have been
taking it on the chin, more than usual this

year, and don't appear to have the team
they generally boast. And that’s why we
are picking Davidson to win, Incidentally,
Ve Pils
feat the championship team of 1910, which
will be looking on Saturday, and it would
vive Coach Simmons and his players more
| than Davidson

Was one of the two teams to de-

satisfaction usual to see

j Win,

We went against most of the dope-
sters last week and picked Duke and
| Davidson to win. Both came through,
and their victories, coupled with Car-
| olina’s loss to Georgia, and Wake
Forest’s win over State gave us a per-
fect slate for the week. That makes it

17 out of 21 guesses for the season.

As we said, we pick Davidson to win

: | Saturday, and the Wildcats should easily

it two touchdowns. The feature
| game for the state as a whole will be the
at
\ The Vols don't seem to have their former
Carolina should — break
ithrough after being stopped last week;
the near 20 to 6. N.C.
State can't lose always, and this week we

|
make

| Carolina-Tennessee game Knoxville.

| prowess, and

score should be

pick them to take the measure of Chris
Cagle’s Miss. A. and M. team, who will be
satisfied with a score of 13 to 7, whichis

the way we look at it.
|

If the fire truck

stops at
your house
today, do
you know
you are
fully pro-
tected, or
did some-
one merely

‘ guess the
amount of insurance you now have
is enough?

Replacement costs of the home
itself and of its contents have al-
most doubled in the last 16 years.
| Let us check up your Fire Insur-
| ance and see if the amount checks
up with present-day replacement

values No obligation Just a
| friendly scrvice on our part.
| INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
Insurance Department

| CHARLOTTE, N. C.

tf standing unexpected developments, Coch-|},.¢ame almost monotonous, the way that McAlister Carson (13), Manager
Big Five Standings ey be in fare to Bp ee his name was being continually barked M. B. Speir (’26)
ile very little 1s known abou 1¢ "9
Tn W. L. Per. strength of the Rutherford team, it is known pa oa
* a ie ; ; os that. on last Saturday they held a strong
Bet eee |Mars Hill team to a 12-12 tie, and all indi- ’
Davideon’ -------+----<#s bd roe | cations point to a scrappy affair which, if When You re Hungry
Mek Rorest <2,------7. bt oe \the Freshmen should win, would do mucn Let
N/C. State -.----------~- © 2 000 |towards starting Home-Coming off with a
| bene: Helper Help You
£3 ta
HELPER’S RESTAURANT
ere ‘ Next Door to Telephone Office
Printing and Engraving
i rt
0 a~
Every Description |
CLEARANCE SALE
J. A. CANNON Victor, Brunswick and Columbia Records
311 Watts offered at Special Low Prices until stock is
; reduced.
STANDARD PRINTING CO. 75c Records, 3 for $1.00
Garland Court Charlotte, N. C. One Lot, 4 for $1.0
W. S. HENDERSON
ok 3 |

