THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 27, 1930

SIX MEN WHO END GRIDIRON DAYS

wOk armeccAcu MWALFGACK

Bie MASON

HUB COVINGTON -

TACKLE

CHARLIE PAPKER-GUARD

3eo0VARO

£12. BACK

JIM PROCTOR - ENO CENTER
WILDCATS WILL BATTLE possible to pick any certain star but}company appeared as the fourth number] were high scorer each with ten points. Mar-|come to the aid of a friend that is in such
rd Laney and, Cook looked particularly|of the Redpath Lyceum course, and is|tin, their teammate, cashed in with seven, | straits? We can’t pull them all the way out,
(Continued from page 1) . Good, For the Frosh, Morris, Slaughter,} the last one that will appear before|while Wilson and Smith, of the Seniors, | but our $1,000 will certainly fill in a big gap

against Carolina. Joe McCall will find op-
posing him one of the best defensive backs
in’ the state, as well as being one of the
fastest, in Mills. Mills has starred in every
game this year, is gifted with a great deal
of courage, and has proved to be one of the
main cogs in the Deacon offense. At the cen-
ter position it is probable that Gardner and
Parker, two of the greatest centers in the
state, will face each other. :

Wildkittens Conquered
By Duke Freshmen 52-9

Wildkittens Unable to Withstand
Fierce Attack of Blue Imps, New |
State Champions

Last Friday afternoon the Davidson
Wildkittens closed their 1930ootball sea-
son by losing to the Duke Blue Imps by
the one sided score of 52-0. The Davidson
team was literally smothered:by the pow-
erful Duke eleven, which scored almost at
will and crashed through the light Fresh-
man line easily. This win gives the Duke
Freshmen the undisputed state champion-
ship in Freshman circles, having defeated
all Big Five Frosh teams.

Duke’s superiority was easily seen in
that they were able to chalk up a total of
fourteen first downs while the Wildkit-
tens were able to obtain’ but four.

The Imps presented a varied attack and
they were able to gain gonsistently, Their
best play was a troublesome triple pass
which netted considergble yardage every
time it was run; twicé this particular play
resulted in touchdowns. They also pre-
sented a forward wall that was impreg-
nable to all the Davidson thrusts.

For the Blue Imps it.is practically im-

and Wilson were the luminaries,
Lineup: —

Duke Fresh Position Davidson F.
Hudgins escecaasue 1) Dye pence hace Morris
Kennedy ~--------- We ecsussesiess Lynn
MacIntosh ------- BGsgeess T. Thompson
M@ans: co2cceccu Genterso22 2222 Baggett
@avishwcisccccoouee RGesc22 W. Thompson
Grawtordseessaanes Rees ese eee Wilson
aAMes Heucapscocees Riese he ae Okeefe
Raper ccacesoseuen (O} Sipaeteae Blanton
banéys eis scence eS |b i bear eee gia Curlee
Bdwands) scassesss Sue Be ee epee Adcock
GCGoks  Stecscucasses HBSS oseuees Harrison

Score by period: Duke 12-12-13-14—52,
Davidson 0-0-0-0—0,

Scoring summary: Touchdowns, Cook,
Edwards, Marcoux, James 2, Raper,
Laney, Rossiter. Extra points, James 2
(dropkicks), Blue (line plunge), Hen-
drickson (pass). Officials—Causey (South
Carolina), referee; Mattox (Washington
and Lee), umpire; Dearmon (Davidson),
headlinesman.

Davidson Five and Ten
Years Ago

Davidson Five Years Ago

With the state championship cup safely
in the hands of a third party, the Blue
Devils‘ and Wildcats will today enact the
final scene in an eventful season of “Big
Five” fooball history of North Carolina.
The third consecutive Thanksgiving Day
meeting of the two teams promises to be
one of the grandest fights ever staged
upon Richardson Field.

Davidson Ten Years Ago
Mrs. Otto Feichtl’s Tyroean Yodlers de-
lighted a responsive audience in Shearer
Hall last Tuesday evening. Mrs. Fiechtl's
\

WAKE FOREST

Covington
187 tbs.
F.B.
Mills Quillen
32 55
180 ths. 165 tbs.
R.H. L.H.
Benton
33
: 200 tbs
5 Q.B.

Gregson Vebb Levine Parker Dupree Williams Brogden
45 61 1 15 35 62 i 34
167 tbs. 23tt ths. 185 tbs. 175 tbs 185 ths. 218 ths. 170 ths.
R.E. RKia.. RG. C L.G, ILS); L.E.

DAVIDSON. :

L.E, LT. L.G. C R.G, R.T. R.E.
Proctor noe Brock Mason Mathis Covington Brown
36-34 474 45-18 39-16 14-28 24-39 22-31
170 tbs. 176 Bs. 160 tbs. i se 179 tbs. 173 tbs. 168 tbs.

£ Fraley
: : 42-20
R.H.
McCall
40-12
167 tbs...

’

Christmas.

Death rates calculated on the basis of
the new census indicate that in healthfulness
among cities of the world, New York ranks
first, Chicago second, Berlin third, London
fourth, and Paris fifth.

4
SOPHS AND JUNIORS

(Continued from page 3)
only two men having been benched because
of fouls.

Only two more games, one between the
Seniors and Sophomores on Monday and the
other between the Juniors and Freshmen on
Wednesday, are to be played on the sched-
ule. However, it appears that a series will
have to be played between the Juniors and
the Sophomores to decide the championship.

Sophomores. 3—Juniors 17

Accurate shooting in the second and fourth
quarters enabled the Sophomores to defeat
the Juniors, 23 to 17, and thereby go into
a tie for first place in the class basketball
race. The game was close and the winner
was in doubt until the last few minutes of
play when the Sophomores clinched victory
with four straight field goals.

The Juniors were the first to score, Mont-
gomery and Martin each dropping one in
from the court. Five points by the Sophs
kept them in the running as the quarter end-
ed, 5-5. The second-year men added seven
points in the next stanza while the best the
Juniors could do was to count once and that
by the free route, the half ending 12-6.

In the third quarter the Juniors came back
strong with three field goals and a foul shot
to hold the short end of a 14-13 score. Three
free throws at the beginning of the final
stanza enabled the Juniors to take the lead,
but the Sophomores came right back with
four shots frém the court and one from the
foul line to win the game.

Hartsell again led the Sophomore attack
with ten points. Manson, his running mate,
scored eight times to take second honors,
while Martin, of the Juniors, led his team
with seven points.

Juniors 31—Seniors 20

By scoring almost at will in the first two
quarters, th eJuniors were able to coast into
victory over the Seniors last Thursday eve-
ning, the final score being 31 to 20. The
victory kept the third-year men in the cham-
pionship running while it marked the fourth
straight defeat for the Seniors.

In the first quarter the Juniors scored eight
points while holding the Seniors to a lone
field goal. They added eight more points in
the “second stanza to hold a 16 to 2 lead at
the half, the Seniors being unable to score
a single point during the quarter.

After the intermission the Seniors tried
hard to overcome the large lead, but the
best they could do was to score nine points
in each of the last two quartesr. The Juniors

fadded eight points in the third and seven

in the fourth quarter to retain victory.
Montgomery and Patrick of the Juniors

turned in six points apiece.

Seniors 24—Freshmen 14

Led by the defensive play of Hoge and
the accurate shooting of Smith, the Seniors
won their first game in the 1930 inter-class
basketball race, taking the Freshmen into
camp Friday evening, 24 to 14. Smith and
Hoge accounted for 22 of the Seniors’ 24
points.

Little scoring marked the first quarter,
which ended 3 to 2 in favor of the Fresh-
men. The Freshmen continued to lead, 9 to 6,
at the half. .In the third quarter, however,
Smith added eight points to enable the
Seniors to come to the front and take the
lead as the quarter ended, 16-12, The Seniors
scored four more field goals in the final
stanza while the -Freshmen counted twice
from the foul line.

Smith tied the season’s record for points
scored in a single game by netting the ball
for sixteen points. McLean, of the Fresh-
men, led his team in scoring with eight
points. The play of Smith and Hoge of the
Seniors, and that of McLean, Evans and
Rowan of the Freshmen, featured the game.

“Y” SPONSORS CAMPAIGN

(Continued from page 1)
ings, numerous barns, etc., over 400 acres
of land, aD or more workers and 360 chil-
dren.

Such a large institution of this nature nat-
urally depends on gifts from the churéh and
other organizations, to a great extent. Ba-
rium has a support budget of $140,000 per
year, 75 per cent of which comes from these
gifts. There has been a deficit in this each
year until now the sum of $70,000 must be
raised in the very near future to keep from
curtailing the work. In other words, the fu-
ture of this great institution is imperiled.
Is it not our privilege and even duty to

and give added zeal and courage to those
carrying on such a noble fight.

It is interesting to know that every boy
and girl at Barium works—on the farm, in
the dairy, printing office, shoe shop, master
mechanics’ shop, etc. They are a busy but
happy lot from morning until night, finding
time for work, school and play.

°

An appeal on the grounds that these chil-
dren are starving and ragged might increase
the fund because of its sentimentality. But,
as it would be entirely untruthful, it cannot
be made. However, there is an appeal that
should be equally as strong. These 360 or-
phans are a happy, well-fed, well-clothed
lot of boys and girls who are as human as
we are. That fact sometimes seems to be
overlooked when an institution of this kind
is under discussion. They are not merely at
Barium doing nothing but being fed and
clothed; their activities are as varied as ours
and their spirit as live as that in any col-
lege. They have been unfortunate to a far
greater extent than we have, it is‘true, but
now they have a chance to live, as every
real American boy or girl ought to live.
They are being taught how to live at Barium,
to get as much out of life and put as much
in it as we do. Let’s do our small part to-
wards helping them carry on in such a battle
and send them our check for $1,000 as a
token of our appreciation of their grit and
as a declaration that we are behind them!

Forbid them not, these little ones,

But let them come unto Me,

For they alone in Heaven’s home

My Fathre’s face shall see.

Their childish» hearts are full of faith;
Their souls are free from sin.

Each one must have such trust as these

If he the Kingdom win. f

soft, long-lived.

made.

both trunk and chest.

ing styles, rich materials and
and HANES Shirts and Shorts.

CS

HANES PROVIDES REAL UNDERWEAR
LUXURY AND SERVICE AT LOW COST

_ When you button up in HANES, you button, out all the underwear
grief you’ve ever known. HANES always fits you—never bunches or
binds. The reinforced cuffs don’t pull off—buttons stay! The materials are

HANES is a man’s underwear. Dungarees couldn't ask for more
masculine company, yet smarter or more up-to-date underwear isn’t

_ Go take a look at the Gold Label Elastic-knit Lightweight Union Suit.
It's really luxurious and, as in all HANES garments from light to extra-
heavy, the hanespun cotton is knitted and cut to careful measurements of

If you wear summer weights all year round, be sure to see the pleas-
many special features in HANES Athletics

i

