DAVIDSON
7
CAROLINA
6

he Davidsoni

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

an

WAKE FOREST
NEXT

ON
THANKSGIVING

Volume XVIII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 20, 1930

No. 10

Davidson Trium phs Over Carolina, 7 - 6

Religious Services Here
Will Be Led By Seminary
Students This Week End

Caligan, McCutcheon, Hamilton
Gray, Flinn, and Cunningham
Are Members of Deputation

FIVE ALUMNI IN GROUP
Was Postponed From Last Week

Because of Previous Engage-
ment

The deputation from the Union Theolog-
ical Seminary from Richmond, Va., was un-
able to come last Sunday on account of a
previous engagement, but will be here this
Sunday.

Last year four men from Union came
down and there were two Davidson alumni
of their quartette. This year six are coming
and five of them are former Davidson stu-
dents. They are as follows: James Caligan,
Leighton McCutchen, Tom Hamilton, James
S. Gray, and R. O. Flinn. John Cunningham
is the other member of the deputation.

All these Davidson men were prominent
in campus activities, Caligan was a member
of the Glee Club for three years and was
on the magazine staff. Hamilton took an
active part in the musical organizations. He
was a member of the R. O. T. C. Band,
Glee Club, and Symphony Orchestra for
three years, being vice-president of the Glee
Club and director of the orchestra. Mc-
Cutchen was the captain of the tennis team
and winner of the state doubles tennis cham-
Pionship cup. He also took an active part
in debating. Gray was a member of the
Classical Club and a member of the Glee
Club for four years. Flinn was on the Fresh-
‘man and varsity squad in track and foot-
ball. He was vice-president of the Y. M.
C. A., member of the “D” Club, secretary-
treasurer of the student body, and associate
editor of the “Chameleon.”

These men will take charge of different
services. Caligan will have charge of the

(Continued on page 6)

“The Yow!”

In answer to many and constant
inquiries, it becomes our solemn and
binding duty to announce that “The
Yowl” will positively be out the end
of his week unless delayed until
next week.

This specially revised edition,
beautifully engraved and embossed,
has been in the hands of the print-
ers for an entire week, so some
little hope is being expressed that
it will eventually appear. Hence, in
the absence of such natural phe-
nomena as earthquakes, chain light-
ning, sudden death, and bad train
schedules, the magazine will be in
the hands of the student body at an
early date. After that the staff will
probably plead insanity and throw,
themselves on the mercy of the
court, 7

Because of the fact that there are
very few extra copies, the magazine
will not be put in he various rooms
on the campus, but the students and
other persons attending Davidson
College may get their old “Yowls”
at a place to be designated by an
announcement in chapel. We hope
that this move ‘will not prove too
radical for the “more conservative
members of the student body.

However, his is neither here nor
there. Seriously speaking, we hope
that the student body will be be-
hind us. In fact, we hope that they
will stay about three miles behind us
until we can find some refuge. Just
remember that the magazine was
edited during the depression. ‘

z Editor of “The Yowl.”

Gitar Meet Duke

Yearlings Tomorrow

Tomorrow will find the Frosh closing their
1930 football season, meeting the Duke yearl-
ings in their annual encounter. The season
has not been anywhere near a success for
the Freshmen and since their bad defeat by
the State Wolflets they have been drilling
every afternoon either on the Freshman field
or in the gymnasium with the one concen-
trated effort to beat Duke and thereby im-
prove the record of this season.

t is a. known fact that Duke has the best

ord of any Freshman team in the state,
with the Baby Deacons running them a
very close second. Therefore the Wildkit-
tens will enter the game as the under-dogs
and with a determination that will be hard
to overcome,

The Duke Imps have won practically every
game that they have played this season and
are looking forward to the Davidson game
with the hope of annexing another victory.
Duke's most impressive win was over Oak
Ridge, whom they defeated by the score of

13-0,

The Wildkittens have only been able to tie
one team this fall but that was a team that
was doped to beat them by a margin of sev-
eral touchdowns, The Imps are doped to win
also, but maybe fhe Frosh can spring an-
other surprise and hold this powerful team;
they will be playing on their home field and
will have every advantage.

The line-up for the Frosh will probably
have a few changes but will be. practically
the same that have started the majority of
the previous games. As to the Duke line-
up, nothing much is known except that it
is composed of former North Carolina high
‘school and prep school stars.

Brock Directs Practice

of Davidson Rifle Team

Open Match to be Held Soon to
Determine Team

As stated in a previous issue of this paper,
work has commenced on the Davidson rifle
team. Under the direction of Lieut. J. L.
Brock, about 20 or 25 Freshmen are being
instructed in the fundamentals of rifle shoot-
ing. There is some very likely logking ma-
terial among the Freshmen and these com-
bined with the old men who are back, in-
cluding J. L. Brock, captain of the team,
and R. D. Russell, both of whom made ex-
cellent records at Camp McClellan last sum-
mer, should make a very formidable team.

The team will be chosen by a Davidson
open match and will consist of about 20 men,
being those men that have the highest score
in the open match. It will be some little
time before this match is held, however, in
order to give the men going out ample time
for practice.

The correspondence matches will not start
until about February 7. Quite a few con-
tracts have already been signed with col-
leges and universities all over the United
States and Canada. Enough will be signed
so that from five to seven matches will pe
fired each week.

Shoulder-to-shoulder matches will prob-
ably be fired with Gastonia, N. C. State,
Clemson and The Citadel. The team may
go on a trip into Virginia to fire matches
with V. M. I. and V. P. I.

The Davidson rifle team has always made
a good record and great things are expected
from it this year. Several Davidson men
were on ‘the Camp McClellan team last
summer which won the R. O. T. C. rifle
matches at Camp Perry. R. D. Russell, in
addition to belonging to this team, won in-
dividual honors in placing far toward the
forefront in an individual match.

MASQUERS SCORE HIT
IN“THE PERFECT ALIBI”

Stewart Meacham and Miss Letitia
Currie Play Leading Rolls in Suc-
cessful Production

DRAWS LARGE CROWD

Tong and Ervin Also Brilliant as
Crooks—Jopport is Excellent

Not to be outdone by the great athletic
triumph of the day, drama made its ap-
pearance last Saturday night in the college
auditorium, in the cast and title of The Per-
fect Alibi, three-act detective comedy, pre-
sented by the Davidson Red and Black
Masquers, to constitute the second enter-
tainment feature of a happy week-end.

After an organ prelude by Ernest Emurian,
including, among other selections, Lemare’s
Andantino, The Bells of St. Mary's, and a
part of Il Trovatore, the curtain
7:05 for the first act.

rose at

The story enacted deals with the murder
of one Arthur Ludgrove, a convinced and
retired bachelor of 60, by two supposedly
genial week-end guests, but in reality, old
enemies of his; the conclusion drawn by the
police that it was a case of suicide; and
the final, and true solution of the mystery,
by the ward of the deceased, and her fiance,
nephew of the deceased.

In the first scene, Jimmy Ludgrove,
nephew of the deceased, and one of those
charming but apparently not very intelligent
young men, emptied so hopeiully and so
regularly into the world by large universi-
ties, is seen laboriously attempting to write
a letter. This character: is portrayed by
Stewart Meacham, in a way that evidenced
careful preparation, and considerable dra-
matic ability. Across the desk, snugly re-

‘elining on a sofa, his fiancee, Susan Cun-

ningham, just 20, ward of the senior Lud-
grove and mistress of the household, is ob-
served absorbed in one of the latest detective
“screams.” This stellar feminine role is
portrayed by Miss Letitia Currie, «with
marked histrionic talent. After a few triviali-
ties between the two,°other members of the
household, and guests arrive, one by one;
and Jimmy and Susan, with Jane West, flip-
pant girl friend of Susan’s, and represented
by Carolena Moffet, decide to. drive out and
play tennis, agreeing to take Major Fother-
gill, elderly friend of the older Ludgrove, as
far as the station, whence he is to depart
for town. The part of Major Fothergill, so
well executed by Steve White, is that of a
60-year-old man, spruce, nevertheless, and,
he hopes, still eligible, despite his advancing
years.

This leaves the scene of action to the re-
maining three occupants of the house: the
host, Arthur Ludgrove, acted by James
Black, with the appearance of a_ rather
shabby, unkempt man, a natural result of nis
favorite hobby of gardening, yet one who
has an authoritative demeanor, and a noble
aspect that commands the utmost respect,
and his two guests, a Mr. Laverick, and
a Mr. Carter. Mr. Laverick is a small, neat
man, with large Van-Dyke beard, and rather
restless eyes that never stay on any person
or any object too long. He is stiffly and
laboriously polite, as though on his guard

(Continued on page 5)

Julian West Injured
in Fresh Scrimmage

Captain Julian West will be out of the
Davidson line-up Friday when the Wildkit-
tens meet the strong Duke Frosh, due to
a serious ankle injury received Monday aft-
ernoon in the scrimmage. The injury came
when West, carrying the ball on a line play,
was downed by McElraht, Freshman tackle.

West is the third first-string backfielder
that’the Freshmen have lost this season due
to mishaps, Reid Brown and Mill Horns-
barger having been disabled by leg injuries.

t

“Y”’ Vespers Led By
Queen Deputation

The “Y” vesper service Sunday night was
held by a deputation of six students from
Queens-Chicora College of Charlotte.

The service was opened with a prayer
by Miss Vinson, the: leader. Following the
prayer Miss Brice gave a beautiful vocal
solo, entitled “Holding Thy Hand, Dear
Lord.” She was accompanied at the piano
by Miss McQueen.

Miss Hogue gave a short talk on “Ad-
ventures With Christ.” She treated this stb-
ject in relation to beauty and knowledge.
“There are two things under this subject,”
said Miss Hogue, “beauty and knowledge.
These are interwoven; you must have knowl-
edge to understand beauty and beauty is es-
sential to gain knowledge. If people have a
good understanding of beauty and have plenty
of knowledge they usually have a good in-
fluence on others.

“Everybody has some kind of influence,
either good or bad,” remarked Miss Hogue.
“Your friends at school have a great influ-
ence on you and if you do not choose the
right kind of friends, you will be led the
wrong way. Be more careful in your re-
marks to others. Do not do anything inten-
tionally that you know will offend someone
else. You must have a fine personality to
say some things and get by with them.

“The teaching of Christ is like unto a
potter’s wheel. One flaw in the clay will mar
the looks of the pot after it is finished; one
defect in the living of a life will spoil its
beauty forever. The teachings of Christ add
beauty to everything and only through Christ
can one gain knowledge and understand
beauty.” After this talk, Miss Graham ren-
dered a beautiful solo on the violin, accom-
panied by Miss McQueen.

Miss Bell gave an interesting talk on
“Service” as concerned with adventuring
with Christ. She asked a question that con-
cerns every student, “What is your idea of
service?” Citizenship is the most essential
thing to service. Respecting the rules, up-
holding the traditions, honoring the laws and
regulations and giving everything you can to
the school, is as much as anyone can do,

“Are you going to be a leader or a fol-
lower? Are you going to have ideals and
convictions of your own*or are you going
to. rely upon others for them? Whatever you
be, be a good one, and put all that you have
into it. When you see that you can do some-
thing evil and get away with it, do not do it.
You might slip something over on your fel-

(Continued on page 6)

Quadwranglers’ Officers
Are Selécted For Year

At a recent meeting of the Quadwranglers
Club of David8en College the following offi-
cers were elected for the ensuing year: Prof.
S. C. Lyon, president; Prof. H, T. Lilly,
vice-president ; Prof. G. B. Watts, secretary,
Professors A. V. Goldiere and W. L. Por-
ter constitute the executive committee.

In the way of entertainment, an examina-
tion was made of the family album, in which
several of the illustrious members of the
families of Quad and Wrangle were shown.
The ladies attending presented a clever mu-
sical comedy entitled, “Why Faculty Wives
Leave Home.”

Original programs full of wit and humor
are typical of this organization. The club,
composed of faculty members and _ their
wives, meets once a month in the attractive
assembly room on the third floor of Cham-
bers Building. One of the chief attractions
of the hall is a beautiful solid oak table,
made especially for the club by Drs. Raynal
and Hood.

According to tentative plans, Dr. Guy R.
Vowles, head of the German Department of
Davidson, is to be the speaker of the eve-
ning, and the belief has been expressed by
more than one of the members that a rare
treat is in store for those who attend.

Wildcat Rise To Superb
Strength in Conquering
North Car. Tar Heels

Fraley, McCall, and Branch Feature
With Spectacular Plays Through-
out the Game

5,000 at the Game
Both Teams Show Brilliant Offen-
sive Strength Despite Rain-
Soaked Gridiron

A truly great °Davidson eleven to
magnificent heights Saturday to defeat a
dazed and helpless University of North Car-
olina team, 7 to 6, on Richardson Field. The
score does not show the superiority that the
Wildcats held throughout all the game with
the exception of part of the first quarter
when the Tar Heels made their only score.

From the opening kick-off when Joe Mc-
Call ran 63 yards through the entire Caro-
lina team, excepting Branch, till the final
whistle. blew with Davidson in possession of

rose

the ball after intercepting one of Carolina’s
frantic heaves, the game was replete with
thrills. Every Davidson player was at the
height of his game, and the bewildered \Uni-
versity eleven could neither halt the lunging

drives of Brohard, Fraley, McCall, McQueen

and others, nor make impressions against a
line playing inspired ball, led by Brock and
Brown.

To Captain Walter Fraley much honor
should be given. For it was he who plunged
seven yards through the big N. C. line for a
touchdown, and then place-kicked perfectly
for the ‘extra point and a great victory. It
was he, also, who led his team so wisely,
picking out the weak places in the Tar Heel
defense for his fellow backs to tear through.
However, almost every place looked weak
when the fighting Wildcat line tore open
large holes for their slippery backs.

The Davidson Wildcat saw his first game
of the year Saturday, being an interested
spectator from his cage on the sidelines.
However, he went back to his regular cage
next to the gymnasium after the game, con-
tent in the realization that his namesakes
had well lived up to the family name.

Chuck Collins’ Tar Heels were a_ real
threat at all times, but except on one or two
occasions they were not allowed to rage. The
first of these occasions resulted in a score.
After gaining on an exchange of punts, and
successive first downs by Captain Nash and
Magner, the ball the Wildcats’
30-yard line. After three plunges had gained
little against the stalwart Davidson line,
Magner stepped back and threw the slippery
ball straight into the arms of Nash, who
cut sharp to his right and raced 24 yards
for their only The second octasion
came when Johnny Branch, diminutive quar-
terback, who has been poison to so many

rested on

score,

teams already this year, received a punt on
his own 17-yard line and raced down the
sidelines to the Wildcats’ 14-yard line where
he was overhauled by McCall and downed in
a beautiful flying tackle.

(Continued on page 5)

Debating Tryouts

has
been planned for this year’s de-
bating team. The team will debate
against approximately twenty of the

A very extensive schedule

leading colleges and universities dur-
ing the months of March and April.

The tryouts row the varsity team
will be held on Tuesday night De-
cember 16. The question for debate
has not yet been decided upon but
will be announced later.

The freshman tryouts will be held
as soon as possible after the mid-
year examinations. The topic for
freshman and varsity tryouts will
be he same.

