6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 6, 1930

What Ought To Be Done

With College Textbooks! |

Illinois Dean Advises Undergrad-
uates to Keep Old Books For
Library

Do college students sell their text-
books? This is a timely question concern-
ing an unfortunate custom which seizes
many undergraduates in January and
June. Thomas Arkle Clark, Dean of Men
of the University of Illinois, gives two
feasons for these seasonal outbreaks, first,
the student’s indifference or lack of in-
terest in his work, and second, his need to
get out of a financial difficulty. Dean
Clark’s further statement that ‘a college
student is always broke” and “anything
that will immediately add to his bank ac-
count seems to him justifiable” will not be
challenged.

But immediately cash not always
forthcoming from the sales of textbooks,
and the sums obtained are negligible in
comparison withthe value of the books.
The rush to dispose of textbooks at less
than rela value is swelled by the thought
that now, examinations being over, those
old books will be ‘needed again! |
Perhaps they'll not be needed for class-
room work; but how often graduates
moan that they wish they had kept their
textbooks, to brush up on a language, to
find a certain formula, to locate that line
of poetry. The reasons for missing books
hastily disposed of are many, but the re-
gret is recurrent that the books are gone,
with all the precious notes that added
value to them, at least in sentiment.

is

never

Again, where will you ever get accepted
authorities so economically? The truth is
that once you have sold a textbook, you
will never replace it, you will even tramp
to a library for the required information.
Which is not quite as clever as keeping
the books in the first place, and gradually
acquiring a personal reference library |
that may save much time and money for |
you in the future. |

|
It is a recognized fact that textbooks |
on technical or professional subjects con- |
stitute the basis of a professional library. |
In many cases these professional books |
are very expensive, and to resell them at
the popular low rates would not augur
well for a technical career. In general,
textbook formats are becoming more at-
tractive yearly, and do not detract in the
least from the charm of well filled book- |
cases. Who would have a library com-
posed only of novels? A choice as limited
as that would indicate an uninteresting
owner; even a calculus textbook on your
bookshelves would catch the eye and hint
of a many sided character!

These are points,in passing, for con- |
sensus of opinion suggests that you keep |
your textbooks for sentimental reasons. |
President John Grier Hibben, of Prince- |
ton University, suggests “Every under- |
graduate leaving college should take his |
textbooks with him as a reminder and
record of a past chapter in his life and as |
a nucleus of a library.” Perhaps it isn’t |
fashionable to be sentimental. Yet books |
have become a recognized budget item; |
and now in many colleges is heard the |
cry of “Keep Your Textbooks.” |

There is no library or reference book as
handy as the worn and _ scribbléd text-|
book, which has been your companion, on |
and off campus. Catr-you think of any-
thing which would be as graphic a com- |
mentary on your college life as the notes |
and names you have jotted on the margins |
and covers of these books? To what other |
books have you granted such intimacy of |
thought? Provost Josiah H. Penniman, of
the University of Pennsylvania, follows
this thought with his remark, “I know of
no book that can be more properly valued |
as an ‘association book’ than the text-|
book which represents many hours of
work and brings to mind some teacher of
the past.”

Davidson Pennants :

Offered By Store

The Students’ Store has just received a
large order of new and attractive pen-
nants, and, owing to the large and unex-
pected demand for these has ordered an-
other large shipment.

The pennants, while jbeing considerably
cheaper than those formerly offered for
sale, are no less attractive than the high-
er priced ones. There are two different
styles offered, both of which are, in shape,
triangular and bear the same inscription,
“Lux alenda, ubi ortas libertas.’ The

Town News

Prof. and Mrs. E. H. Cullum and Dr.
and Mrs. G. B. Watts spent ten days in
Florida during the examination period.

The “Twentieth Century Club” met at
the home of Mrs. O. J. Thies last Friday

afternoon.

Miss Mary Hamilton had Misses Helen
Shuler and Dot Solomon from Converse
College as her guests the past week-end.

Misses Daisy Caldwell, Susie Jackson,
Elizabeth Potts, from N. C. C. W., were
at home recently for a few days during
their examination period.

Miss Charlotte Hunter, who is teaching
in Winston-Salem, visiting her parents the
past week-end.

Mrs. Bob Garth has returned to New
York after spending some time in David-
son with her parents, Dr. and Mrs. T. W.
Lingle.

Dr. Claude Goodrum has. been confined
to his home the past few days with an
attack of in fluenza,

The “Twentieth Century Club” enter-
tained. their husbands at dinner at Roz-
zell’s Ferry last Thursday night. About
forty people were present.

Prof. and» Mrs. Oscar Thies and small
daughter, Colleen, spent about ten days
in Florida recently.

with the plain, block style leters, “David-
son,” on them, The others have the same
background, but old English
style of lettering.

These pennants make unusually
beautiful and artistic decoration for a
room, and students are urged to take ad-
vantage of the cut-rate prices, and pur-
chase pennants now.

have an

an

DAVIDSON HAS TWO MEN
AT PRINCETON

(Continued from page 1)
stitution. They are Hassell Norwood Alex-
ander, of Brandon, Miss., who took his
degree here in 1910, and William Everett
Phifer, Jr., of Port Jervis, N. Y., of the
class of 1929. The Seminary is one of the
schools of the Presbyterian Church, U.
S. A., a sister organization of the ‘South-
ern Presbyterian Church to which David-
son belongs.

The enrollment at Princeton
includes representatives from practically
every leading college in the country as
well as fifteen foreign ones. Among the
outstanding American colleges represent-
ed there at the present time are, Prince-
ton, Columbia, Harvard, LaFayette, Lin-
coln, Colgate, Wooster, Westminster,
Washington and Jefferson, Pittsburgh,
Wheaton, Richmond, Maryville, Lebanon
Valley, Asbury, and Davidson. Six for-
eign seminaries in addition to the fifteen
colleges have sent students to Princeton.
There are seventeen foreign countries
with a total of thirty-seven students rep-
resented at Princeton Seminary this year,
as against fifteen foreign lands last year.

this year

Co-ed (at the end of the quarter )—Now,
that you have kissed me, professor, what do
you think ?

Prof.—You'll fail. | need you in my class
next quarter.

Uncle Tom was jollying his little niece,
trying to make believe that the moon was
made of green cheese. But Dorothy was
not to be taken in. “It can’t be made of
green cheese, Uncle Tom,” she said con-
vincingly, “cause God made the moon
two days before he made cows.”

DAVIDSON FIVE AND TEN YEARS AGO

rive Years Back

Displaying brilliant basketball mixed
with that Wildcat spirit Davidson turned
Duke back again for the third time
straight during the season. The game was
a hot contest from beginning to end and
very fast. It was not until the closing
minutes that the game was decided when
the whistle blew shutting off a Methodist
rally and gave the game to Davidson with
a score of 22-18. Much feeling was con-
nected with the contest since a verbal
battle between the two school papers had
prevailed previous to the game. The
sports editor of The Davidsonian in an
eloquent article entitled “Last to beat
Trinity; first to beat Duke” raised the ire
of the same dignitary on the Trinity
Chronicle who replied — “Last to beat
Trinity; first to beat Duke, raves the
sport editor of The Davidsonian. We let
him rave on in his bliss and “Give all the
glory to Old Davidson, and then settle
back with satisfied await his
howls of despair when the overbold Wild-
cats venture into the cage of the Blue
Devils at Durham.”

ease to

Ten Years Back

The gamely fighting Cats journeyed to

Raleigh only to be snowed under by

State’s quintet of six footers. The first
half was a toss up with Davidson playing
far over their heads but in the second half
nothing was heard but a continual swish
as the ball entered the State basket. The
game ended 30-10 in State’s favor.

It is interesting to note some of our
present faculty members occupying a
notable position in the activities of the
campus ten years ago. In looking over the
pages of Davidsonian of 1920 there is seen
among the even dozen that made the first
semester honor roll the name of C. K.
Brown who had the highest average of
any man in school with 98.83. On the same
list and in the same class was W. P.
Cumming with an average of 96.33. On
the editorial page is seen L. B. Schenck
on The Davidsonian staff.

SPECIAL SALE GOLF CLUBS

Macgregor Golf Clubs Now Offered at One-
fourth Off Regular Price

W.S. HENDERSON

.. Ol

cheapest types have a black background

eRT RTH

Dy

the table

...In a cigarette It’s

J UDGE A TREE by its fruit.” The

tail of ageing tobacco, blending and cross-blend-
ing, the standard Chesterfield method, is not

what interests you.

But its “fruit”— keener, spicier aroma, true
mildness with unmistakable tobacco “character”
—is just the one thing that smokers can judge by—

“TASTE above everything ”

ts SKI

endless de-

TASTE /

MILD..:and yet

THEY SATISFY

Jhesterfield

__ FINE TURKISH and DOMESTIC tobaccos, not only BLENDED but CROSS-BLENDED

@ 1929, Liccatr & Myzrs Tosacco Co,

