6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 10, 1930

—

Davidson Defeats South

Carolina in Track Meet |

] Informal Tea Given

For I. R. C. Speaker

]

'S. A. E.’s Meet Phi
| Gams in Basketball

Joe McCall Breaks College Broad Sir Hubert Ames Honored at Dr.) Due to the crushing defeat of the Kappa

Jump Record With Leap of
22 Feet, 814 Inches

events and taking a large share of honors
in the field events,, Davidson defeated the
University of South Carolina, 82-43, in the
opening track and field meet of the season
at Columbia on Thursday, March 27. ,

Heath Whittle was high scorer in the
meet with 15 points, winning the 100-yard
dash, 120-yard high hurdles, and the 220-
yard low hurdles. He was also a member
of the winning relay team.

was McCall's broad jump of 22 feet 8%
inches. This establishes a new Davidson Col-
lege record in this event, breaking the old
record which was made in 1896.

The Wildcats are looking strong in the
distance, winning all three places in both
the mile and two-mile. Lafferty and Brati- |
non won these two events in order named. |
All three places in the half-mile also went |
to Davidson.

Davidson's half-mile relay team, composed
of Brohard, George, McCall, and Whittle, |

|

| T. W. Lingle’s Home

| Sigma basketball team by the Phi Gamma
Delta team, the honor now lies between the

On last Sunday afteroon an informal tea | Phi Gams and the Sigma Alpha Epsilons.
Making almost a clean sweep in the track | was given at the home of Dr. T. W. Lingle; A handsome trophy has been offered to the
|in honor of Sir Herbert Brown Ames. Sev-| victors, and it has been keenly contested for
eral members of the International Relations | by all the fraternities. The decisive game

Club were invited as guests.

During the course of the afternoon the |
former Treasurer of the League of Nations |

conversed with those present on the prin-
cipal world issues of today. Especially in-
teresting were his reminiscences of the early
problems and times when the League w

| in its infancy.
The feature act of the meet, however, |

Sir Herbert was earnest in his disappoint-
ment of the action taken by the United
States as regards a world alliance. Explain-
ing that it is practically impossible for a

| world power to maintain a strict state of
neutrality, he said; “The time must come |

when the United States will be forced to
take one of two sides; either she must sup-
port the League in her peace provisions or

| a . .
| she must ally herself with combatant nations |

for the sake of economic profit.”

Delightful refreshments were served, pro-

took this event handily, although it did not | viding a pleasant break in the discussions.

count in points.
Summaries:
100-yard dash—-Whittle (Davidson), first ; |
McCall (Davidson), second; Brohard (Da-
vidson), third. Time, 10.3 seconds,
One-mile run—Lafferty (Davidson), first; |
Goodwin (Davidson), second; Wilson ( Da- |
vidson), third. Time, 4 minutes 48.8 seconds. |
220-yard — dash—Fishburne

| Members of the International Relations Club
|and faculty members were present.

Davidsonians Piomineht
At Seminiary in Virginia

Richmond, Va., April 8—E. R. Arehart,

(Carolina), | Hampden-Sydney, has been elected President

first; Neal (Davidson), second; Gorham of the Society of Missionary Inquiry of the

(Davidson), third. Time, 24.8 seconds.
120-yard high hurdles—Whittle (David-

son), first; Kennedy (Carolina), second;

Meeks (Carolina), third. Time, 53 seconds.

Two-mile run — Brannon (Davidson),
first; Murphy (Davidson), second; West
(Davidson), third. Time, 11 minutes 2.8
seconds. |

220-yard low hurdles—Whittle (David-
son), first; George (Davidson), second ;
Bostick (Carolina), third. Time, 27  sec-
onds,

880-yard run—Neal (Davidson), first;
Norton (Davidson), second; Drake (David-
son), third. Time, 2 minutes 8.2 seconds.

Pole vault—Smith (Davidson), first;
Brown (Carolina), and Brock (Davidson),
tied for second and third places; Smith
(Davidson), third. Height, 11 feet.

Shot put—Hughey (Carolina), first;
Boyle (Davidson), second; Hall (David-
son), third. Distance, 38 feet, 514 inches.

High jump--Kennedy (Carolina), Bostick
(Carolina), and Dupre (Carolina), tied for
first place. Height 5 feet 7%4 inches.

Discus—Lightsey (Carolina), first; Adair
(Carolina), second; Regan (Davidson),
third. Distance, 112 feet, 2 inches.

Javelin—McCall (Davidson), first; Ken-
nedy (Carolina), second; Coble (Davidson),
third. Distance, 165 feet 7 inches.

Broad jump—-McCall (Davidson), first;
Bostick (Carolina), second; Gardner (Da-
vidson), third. Distance, 22 feet 8% inches.

Half-mile relay—(Davidson), . Brohard,
George, McCall and Whittle, first. Time,
1 minute 38 seconds.

Dr. Watts Elected
Language President

The Modern Language Association of
North Carolina met in Raleigh in conjunc-
tion with the State Teachers’ Association
on March 21. Professor Algernon Coleman,
of Chicago, addressed the three hundred
members present on “Some Aspects of Mod-
ern Language Teaching.” At the business
session the following officers were elected for
1930 and 1931:

President, Dr. George B. Watts, of Da-
vidson; Vice-President, Miss Katherine
__Tighe, of Asheville. High School faculty ;
Secretary and Treasurer, Prof. Hugo Giduz,
School of Education of University of North
Carolina.

The afternoon sessions were devoted to
group meetings of French, Spanish and Ger-
man teachers. There was a large attendance
at all meetings.

FRANK PRICE SPEAKS

ide

r

(Continued from page 1)
returned to America,” he said, “I was struck
by many distinct differences. The speed and
efficiency of American life was éspecially
noticeable. The much talked of prosper-
ity of this country, however, seemed to. be

very unevenly distributed and in the hands
of only a few, while many are living in ac-
tual want. Especially noticeable were the in-

|

| Union Theological Seminary for 1930-31.

Other officers are as follows: Tom H. Ham-
ilton, Davidson, Vice-President; Aubrey
Brown, Davidson, Secretary; J. Chester
Frist, Southwestern, Treasurer: Drs. J. Gray

elected faculty advisors.

In the election of Athletic Association
officers, James H. Caligan, Davidson, was
chosen President, and Julian Lake, David-
son, Secretary. Vice-Presidents who will
have charge of’ different sports are: P. R.
Shiflet, Hampden-Sydney, baseball; Frank
Hall, Davidson, tennis; A. B. Williford, Da-
vidson, basketball; T. E. Hill, Davidson,
gymnasium; John Bright,

baseball, and W. B.
volley ball,

Passiglia, Bloomfield,

Control of seminary sports rests with the
Athletic Association, which body schedules
outside contests with college and club teams
as well as innumerable inter-class and inter-
dormitory games and contests throughout
the year.

recent stewardship essay contest conducted
at the seminary by the Department of Stew-
ardship of the Church. W. P. Brown, ’22,
with “The Evolution of a Five Dollar Bill,”
won first prize; H. G. Goodykoontz, ’27,
writing on “The Stewardship of Youth,” was
declared second; and James H. Calligan,
'27, with his “The Stewardship of Youth,”
and Aubrey Brown, ’29, on “The Steward-
ship of Little,” tied for third award.

from China here. The eastern man always
takes plenty of time for meditation. The
tendency toward secularism is gaining much
too much headway in our country today, An-
other characteristic I noticed was very
strong nationalism evidenced in a feeling of
self-satisfaction and security held by many
Americans. Also the interest of the students
due to this spirit of nationalism fails to
achieve a world-wide scope.

“Japan,” he said, “up to the exclusion act,
was very friendly with the United States
on account of her aid in the earthquake
and other past relations, but this unfriendly
act puzzled the Japanese a good deal.

“Korea lost her chance to develop and
revolutionize her country to Japan and feels
very keenly about it.

“Much of our work in China during the
revolution is relief work and visiting cities
in the war zone. During one of these jour-
neys we came in contact with a young writ-
er who was very discouraged about the
condition in China and had recently written
a book entitled ‘The Journey's End.’ He
became sick and while in the hospital found
the Master. He decided to cease to write
on the art for art's sake principle and start-
ed to write something for the uplift of his
country. His next book, a splendid Christian
work soon to come out, is entitled “Going
Home.’ We are bound to the youth of China
with strong ties. Let us pray for them and
let their lives and experiences be of help
to’ us.” ¥

as |

|

McAllister and D. W. Richardson were re- |

Presbyterian, |
campus football; C. M. Voyles, King, indoor |

by 3 - Err ee eel i}
Four Davidsonians came off winners in a

|
| creasing distractions. We have much to learn

| between the Phi Gam and the S. A. E.
quints is to be played off next week.

The next, series of inter-fraternity compe-
| tition will be one of baseball. This schedule
{has not been completed as yet, but is in
|the hands of W. B. McGavock. An attempt
| will be made to get the games under way
}next week. Special interest is usually mani-
| fested in inter-fraternity baseball, and indi-
cations are that this year will be no excep-
tion. Fraternities are requested to line up
their prospective teams, and make other nec-
essary ‘preparations right away, in order to
facilitate an early and smooth start.

Oratorical Contest
Will Be Held Soon

Within the next two weeks there will be

jheld a preliminary contest for the National

Oratorical Prize which will be given at
Los Angeles on June 16. At the present
time no candidates have ‘appeared but sev-

}eral are expected.

The winner of the preliminaries here will
represent Davidson in the regional contest
which will be held here also. The regional
contest involves only the schools of North
Carolina. This contest will be some time
between April 24 and May 3. The regional
contest winner will then go to the zone con-
test, which is the semi-final of the national

one. It is to be held some time between

Literary Societies

Eumenean

The Eumenean Literary Society met
March, 24, 1930, in their regular meeting.
After disposition of business matters, and
the roll call and minutes, Mr. W. B. Ward
gave an interesting talk on “My Favorite
Poet (William Cullen Bryant), His Life
and Work.” Afterwards a debate was held
with the query, “Resolved, that religious edu-
cation should be carried on in the public
schools.” Due to the absence of two par-
ticipants, each side was championed by only
one speaker. They were: J. A. Ward, af-
firmative, and John H. McFayden, negative.
The meeting was then adjourned to meet
April 8.

Philanthropic

The Phi Society met Tuesday night,
March 24. C. E. Kraemer led the devotion-
als, and afterwards the roll was called and
the minutes read. The feature of the eve-
ning was a talk on “The Life of Theodore
Roosevelt.”

A motion was made and carried to elect
a new President in the place of H. E. Rus-
sell, President-elect, who cannot be back
in college this semester. Accordingly, J. C.
Lawrence and D. J. Black were nominated.
A vote was then taken and D. J. Black was
chosen. A brief ‘installation and inaugural
address then completed the major part of
the proceedings. After several items of busi-
ness discussions, the society adjourned to
meet “April 8.

May 6 and May 30.
The prize will be presented June 19
Los Angeles.

in

No one who has ever won a prize in the

competition before is allowed to compete.

Registration Begins
For Year Following

Consultation With Faculty Members
Necessary Before Registration

The period tor registration of courses for
next year started last Monday and will last
through Saturday, April 19. After this date
a charge of $2.50 will be made for any fur-
ther registrations. This does not mean, how-
ever, that a change in course cannot be made.
Changes in courses can be made on up to
September 1, after which a charge of $1
will be made for any changes.

A change in policy of registrations is be-
ing made this year. Heretofore courses have
been signed up with the registrar without
any consultation with a faculty member. This
year every student will be required to con-
sult his faculty advisor before registering
for courses. This consultation will be in the
nature of consideration in choosing the most
logical subjects in preparation for a life
work. Each faculty councilor is supplied with
a number of cards which are filled out by
the students and then in turn presented to
the registrar when the student signs up for
his courses for the following year.

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
NOTICE!

Shoes Half Soled
For One Dollar

Oo.K. SHOP
Second Door From
Post Office

|

tional scope,

est calibre.

Within the Bell System many have
achieved outstanding success. Their work.

A challenge

and

develop

to the imagination

To provide telephone service of na-
to manage
properties valued at more than three and
three-quarter billion dollars, to maintain an
organization of more than 400,000 people
at highest efficiency — such work spurs
the creative thought of men of the high-

is not only in pure science and engineering,
but in organization and management, in
salesmanship, financial administration, eco-
nomics and the many other fields vital to
‘the growth of so great an enterprise.

Be aise of these men the Bell System is
able to furnish the best all-around telephone

service in the world. A progressive policy

BELL SYSTEM

puts at their disposal every aid that a great
organization can give.

1 nation-wide system of inter-connecting telephones

BEGUN’.
