6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 15, 1930

Rifle Team Makes
J. L. Brock Captain

In a recent meeting ewdiyet the rifle team
J. L. Brock was elected captain for next
year. S. S. Wiley was chosen manager and
Captain Otto or Captain Blanton will have
charge of the Marksmanship department
of the R. O. T. C.

The rifle team this season had the most
sucecssul year htat it has had since its
beginning at Davidson, having fired
against schools in forty-six states and
three foreign countries. Out of the total
of seventy three correspondence matches
engaged in, Davidson’s rifle team won
fifty-six and lost only sixteen. This is a
remarkable record considering the fact
that the matches were fired against many
of the country’s foremost military
schools, :

. During the recent inspection the follow-
ing men were decorated because of their
excellent work on the rifle team: R. B.
Russell, D. G. Calder, J. L. Brock, M. L.
Brohard, F. S. Curdts and Captain Payton
Greyer.

ENGLISH PROFESSOR:

(Continued from page 3)

prison wall contrasted with the squalor
and the drabness of the prison cell. The
reader feels some of the “pity and terror”
which should dominate every tragic sit-
uation. Aesthetics in this case emerges as
the final victor over Ethics. “The Quest
of_a. Dream” transports us to that magic
city of the Arabian Nights where Haroun
Al Raschid watked the streets. This story
deserves hoifora le mention because of
the’ way in-which the plot is constructed.
Mr. Jarratt has cleverly balanced the
conceptions of an opium-like vision with
that of an apparently actual experience.
All the king’s horses and all the king’s
men, with Monsieur Dupin and Sherlock
Holmes in the background, would have
difficulty with this mystery.

The story, “Meant for Tragedy,” has
romanticised pathos and a slight tinge of
the melodramitic but has the saving
strength of a ‘dexterous plot of an O.
Henry type of \ending. The next bit of
fiction is by Mr\ McCutchan, who, con-
sciously or neon ciously, achieves a sa-
tirical attack on We English aristrocracy
who are omade to kppear bally stupid de-
spite their blood, their culture and their
facetiously brilltant conversation. There
may be a question as to whether the
psychological reactions would be as de-
picted, but this seeming lack of reality
gains for the story a certain amount of
humor and makes it for pure reading en-
joyment one of the best in the offing.
Mr. Witt has done some very excellent
writing in this issue in the descriptive pas-
sages which create atmospheric color and
background. Those temperamental Slavs
would be all the more depressed after
reading how sordid is their daily exist-
ence. Those same Slavs wotild probably
like the type of plot which the story
“Circle” has.

“After Graduation” as a story has cor-
rectly mixed the ingredients of youth,
love, jealousy and despair in a story of
young collegiates. One rejoices that there
is a dignity here in the actions of these
young bloods which should be very as-
suring to the older generation, Although
the story follows fairly closely the pattern
of the pre-nuptial eternal triangle, Mr.
Overman deserves some credit for the
creation of the character o f John
Churchill, who seems satisfyingly three-

Athletic Fraternity
Begins Competition

Seventy-Five Students Try for
Notable Honor

For the past two weeks students aspir-
ing to become members of the Sigma
Delta Psi, national athletic fraternity,
have been trying to meet the require-
ments of this organization. Under the
guidance of Capt. Norton G. Pritchett
about seventy-five students have been at-
tempting to gain this great honor.

Davidson is one of the forty- eight
schools in the United States that has a
chapter of this fraternity, and is only one
of the three schools in the South that has
gained this recognition, as most of the
chapters of this fraternity are in the mid-
dle Western and Western colleges and
universities.

Sigma Delta Psi was first brought to

fied. These men were Kell, Dumas, and
and Brock, the last being the only mem-
ber at Davidson at the present time. Cap-
tain Pritchett expressed the opinion that
probably six men would qualify this year,
but nothing is definite as yet.

The qualifications of this fraternity are
by no means easy; a man who has satis-
factorily passed all the requirements will
have, when he’ is through, accomplished
something that every man cannot ac-
complish. To become a member one must
run the hundred yard dash in a certain
required time, likewise the hurdles, the
mile run, and he must meet certain re-
quirements in the high and broad jump,
the pole vault, the football punt, the shot

dimensional.

No college magazine is complete with-
out the writings of poesy of the under-
graduates. The Chameleon is to be con-
gratulated that the amorous ditty, usually
crowned as King, of the May when the
young sun hath in the Ram his half-course
run, is ‘not fqund in profusion here. Such
sincere but occasionally inartistic attempts
in praise of Cupid and his Court deserve
every generous consideration but the one
of hasty publication. The poems in this
issue are distinctly above the average
found in a college magazine.

The managers of the magazine are to
be congratulated on the attractive ap-
pearance of The Chameleon. An appro-
priate green cover and a campus sketch
form a fitting background for the con-
tents. The general arrangement and
typing have dignity and taste and deserve
commendation. This issue, from practical-
ly every standpoint, should be considered

a good one.
H. T. Lilly.

A AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AL

HOW ABOUT YOUR
COLLEGE EXPENSES
NEXT YEAR
Write us immediately for a good
money-making proposition selling
(1) college, and fraternity jewelry
including class rings, (2) attractive
high grade individual stationery
printed to customer’s order, (3)
complete line of felt and leather
goods, and (4) all styles of college
belts carrying buckles with or with-
out your college colors. In yoru let-
ter, state which of the above four
interests you, and be sure to give
two references and your summer

address.
INDIAN SALES AGENCY

Williamsburg, Virginia

Davidson

Theatre

Monday and Tundar, May 19 and 20
‘Lady of hoch s”

RUTH cHATTERTON

Wednesday, Ma

Bese 7

Eagles”

BUDDY | ROGERS
Thursday and Friday, May 22 and 23

‘H oney”

with
| NANCY CARROLL
Saturday, May 24
“Prince of Diamonds”
Our Theatre is now equipped with the same sound equipment as the
large cities, and we think we get the best reproduction we have heard in

any theatre.
Ar

]

THE MANAGEMENT.

BADAADAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA

”

Davidson last_year when three men quali-}{

N. C. State Is to Be
‘Met in Golf Match

The North Carolina State College golf
team will form the opposition for the
Davidson College linksmen next Monday
at ihe Charlotte Country Club, where the
concluding match of the season will be
played. State defeated the Wildcat team
at Raleigh in a previous match this year,
so that the local team will be seeking to
avenge this with a victory.

The golf team has enjoyed a successful
season under Capt. Jack Pepper, state in-
tercollegiate champion. Every member of
the Big Five group have ben played, and
out of eight matches, Davidson has won
five.

Senior members of the golf squad who
will be lost through graduation are: N.
C. Hodgin, R. D. Croom, and W. Hart.
However, since Captain Pepper has an-
other year, and the three other members of
he team John Thompson, Tom Caldwell,
and Jack Wagner, will only be sopho-
mores, a good team is in prospect. “Spar-
row” Mills, another star golfer, who did
not return to Davidson this semester, will
also be here next year.

DAVIDSON VIOLINIST

(Continued from page 1)
and fourth violins. The increasing popu-
larity of the violin quartette as a musical

put, the javelin throw, and the baseball
throw; in water sports he must be able
to swim a hundred yards in a certain des-
ignated time.

The fraternity was founded at the Uni-
versity of Indiana in 1912 and since that
time it has become very popular in the
United States.

oO
yj

ensemble is attested by the increased pub-
lication of arrangements of various music
for this combination, which now include
in its galaxy many selections from the
masters.

The second of their radio programs, un-
less changed, will be played on the fol-
lowing Sunday evening, May 25th, at the
same hour.

TWENTY-SIX MEN

(Continued from Page 1)

Principles, and Practice March and

Maneuver Camp.

The following members of the rising
senior class who are taking the advance
course in R. O. T. C. are expecting to be
at camp, the six weeks’ course being a
prerequisite to the granting of an O. R.
C. commission: Bird, A. R., Bost, H. F.,
Brock, J. L., Brock, T., Chamness, F. E.,
Covington, H. S., Drake, B. M., Hall, J.
L., Hall, R. S., Harris, B. H., Jackson, A.
R., Kraemer, C. E., Kuykendall, C. W.,
Lowratice, B. R., McCutchan, J. W.,
Meacham, J. S., Preston, J. F., Rusk, D.
Ruésell, R. D., Severance, J. L. Sisson, C.
A., Smith, J. L., Suggs, W. G., Thompson,
>. F., Wilson, R. G. Mixon, H.

DEDICATION OF CHAMBERS

(Continued from page 1)
procession forms at 10 a. m., and the ac-
tual graduation exercises start at 10:30
o'clock. Included in the day’s program will
be the presentation of the class gift, ad-
dresses by the salutatorian and valedictor-
ian, the award of college medals, and then
presentation of diplomas.

R. O. T. C. Exhibition
Winners Announced

The winners of the competition drill in
the R. O. T. C,, and the winners of the
Scabbard and Blade trophies were an-
nounced recently by these organizations.
The drill was held Wednesday, May 7.
“C” Company, commanded by Cadet Capt.
W. B. McGuire won the Company drill in
the competition and also gained the dis-
tinction of being color company for next
year by accumulating more points than
any other company this year. The second
platoon of “C’ Company commanded by
Cadet First Lieutenant C. P. Greyer, Jr.,
won the platoon drill in the competition.
The squad which won the best rating was
commanded by Cadet Corporal T. S. Mor-
rison of “D’ Company. The individual
drill was won by Private John R. Howard,
“B” Company.

Other awards were also given to dif-
ferent platoons for having the best lines
during the year. Two platoons tied for
first place in thsi particular. They were
the second platoon of ‘“‘B” Company, com-
manded by Cadet First Lieutenant C. A.
Ritchie and the second platoon, “D” Com-
pany, commanded by C. P. Greyer, Jr.

Awards were also made to the rifle
team which was composed of the follow-
ing men: Lieutenant C. P. Greyer; Ser-
geant J. L. Brock; Sergeant R. D. Rus-
sell; Corporal D. G. Calder; Private M. L.
Brohard; and Private F. L. Curdts.

The trophy which the Scabbard and
Blade fraternity offered. was- given to
Cadet Sergeant R. D. Russell, and a reg-
ulation United States Army saber was
presented to Cadet Colonel W. R. Hill.

A milestone of Telephone progress

This marker is used to show the position of
a new type of underground cable line. It is
also a monument to the Bell System policy
of constantly improving established methods

and developing new ones.

For years underground telephone cables
have been laid in hollow duct lines especially
constructed for the purpose. By this newly
developed supplementary method they can
be buried directly in the ground without con-

BELL SYSTEM

duit—and, under many conditions, at a sav-
ing of time and money.

To do this it was necessary to develop
a new type of cable, many kinds of special

equipment including labor-saving installation

machinery, and to work out an entirely new
installation procedure.

Progress means change. The Bell System
holds no procedure so sacred that it is not
open to improvement.

Ul mation-wide system of inter-connecting telephones

“OUR PIONEERING WORK HAS JUST BEGUN”
