THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 1, 1930

After Graduation ---

aw?

Opportunities For Specialization In
Law Offer Large Field To Students

Scant Financial Returns Hold
Greatest Objection to Students
Entering Practice of Law

What would be my opportunities as a
lawyer ?

The field of law is so extensive that it is
impossible for any one individual to master
all phases of the profession. Specialization
is the natural result and there are a num-
ber of fields in which you can do your work.
One writer has classified law into six divi-
sions; he explains that this does not neces-
sarily mean that a lawyer’s time is taken up
in one particular division to the entire ex-
clusion of the others, but it does mean that
most of his time is so taken up.

The general practitioner, who performs
various kinds of legal services, any kind, in
fact, that may be called for in the community
in which he is practicing.

The tort lawyer, who serves as either
plaintiff or defendant lawyer in civil actions
for damages, such as in cases of trespass,
accident or othe,r injury.

The criminal lawyer who spends most of
shis time in the criminal courts, dealing with
offenses against society or the state.

The real estate lawyer, who is chiefly oc-
cupied with actions involving real property.
He also takes care of such business in con-
nection with real property as examining
titles to real estate, serving as trustee of
funds for investment, acting as executor and
administrator of estates, etc. Along with
these various duties he may also be engaged
in buying and selling of real estate.

The patent lawyer, who serves as general
attorney in patent cases. He also acts as
agent in obtaining patents from the national
government.

The admiralty lawyer, who specializes in
litigation arising from accidents or other
causes at sea. This highly specialized divi-
sion is of a growing importance.

In addition to the foregoing major fields
in the legal profession, there are also the
following opportunities for making use of
your law training;

The corporation attorney—In this capacity
a lawyer serves as salaried attorney and
counselor of a corporation; eventually he
may become an official of the corporation
he so serves. The legal departments of large
insurance, banking, and manufacturing cor-
porations occasionally have salaried positions
open to promising law graduates.

The lawyer in business—Practicing attor-
neys ,besides their regular duties, will some-
times act as directors, partners, or associates
in various business enterprises. Then again

there are young men who will take a law
school course as a preparation for adminis-
trative work in business.

The lawyer as a teacher—Now and then
there are practicing attorneys who, in addi-
tion to their regular duties, engage in teach-
ing in law schools, schools of commerce, etc.
Still others devote their entire time to edu-
cation.

The lawyer as a writer—Some law school
graduates enter law book publishing houses
and become specialists at compiling legal
textbooks. Others, along with their regular
practice, write for law journals, magazines,
the daily press, etc.

What income may I expect in this profes-
sion ?

Because the income of a lawyer will vary
according to the locality and the character
of the service in which he is engaged, it is
difficult to estimate, except very generally,
what average yearly earnings may be ex-
pected. Unless you are determined and by
nature qualified to be a lawyer, you will
become discouraged before entering the pro-
fession when you read what was said by one
who has done considerable research in this
field.

“The field is greatly overcrowded and the
average earnings very small. This is the
great objection. Only the more able or for-
tunate in securing profitable legal practice
can hope to win more than a bare compe-
tency. Young men may not only be indebted
to their families and friends for a course of
study covering three or four years in prep-
aration, but after that for a period of five,
ten, or even fifteen years consumed in acquir-
ing a competent practice. Many never reach
such a practice, and are obliged to turn to
some other occupation for part or full in-
come, or to come down to the end of life
in straitened circumstances, unable to do for
their families what was earlier done for
them to place them in the profession.”

Few studies on lawyers’ incomes are avail-
able but according to at least one present-
day authority the following statistics reflect,
fairly accurately, conditions as they exist to-
day. These statistics were compiled by the
secretary of the Harvard Law School from
answers to questionnaires forwarded to all
graduates of the school from 1902 to 1911,
inclusive, inquiring as to their net earnings
each year since graduation. In studying this
tabulation it should be kept in mind that less
than one-half of those circularized responded,
and it is reasonable tg assume that these
represented the more successful. It should
be remembered, afSo, that the graduates of
this particular law school are among the

best trained legal talent in the country, as

“DRUGS”

CANDY -:-

WHITE DRUG CO.

“PRESCRIPTIONS

“SODA”

FLOWERS

Davidson Theatre

“Royal

Monday and Tuesday, May 5th and 6th
“Gay Madrid”
ith

wii
RAMON NAVARRO

Wednesday and Thursday, May 7th and 8th _ ...
“Ladies of Leisure”

with
RALPH GRAVES
Friday, May 9th
“Sarah and Son”
. with
RUTH CHATTERTON
Saturday, May 10th
Romance .

with
WM. COLLIER, JR.

the majority had four years of college prior
to their three years of law study.

Year Number of Average
Replies Earnings
WitSt, ccc cco Ledceunucuees 694 $ 664
SCCONU Subsucssoccuccusces 609 1,110
Bighth: otc locos loae cs 112 4,426
ININGN co cueeweckicccsoeeaes 2 5,321
Wenth (oveuvaussccce seus 40 5,325

BUSINESS MANAGERS

(Continued from Page 1)

ing, who graduate this year: The David-
sonian, E. H. McCall; the Quips and
Cranks, W. R. Hill; the Chameleon, Ed
Roberson. These men have all done merito-
rious work and leave the financial condition
of the various publications in excellent
shape, thereby making the work of their
successors easier. The newly appointed busi-
ness managers will. take over their new
work in the fall of the coming year.

THREE RECORDS FALL

(Continued from page 1)

Whittle was the high point man, having
20 points to his credit, from having been
first in four events, the 100 and 220-yard
dashes and the high and low hurdles. Dupre
stood first for the Wake Forest team with
eight points. The final score was Wake For-
est 27 2-3; Davidson 98 1-3.

Summary :

100-yard dash—Whittle (D), McCall (D),
Brohard (D). Time, 10 seconds.

220-yard dash—Whittle (D), Kinsey
(W. F.), George (D.). Time, 22 1-5 sec-
onds,

440-yard dash—Brohard (D), McGehee
(D), McLaughlin (D). Time, 51.4 seconds.

880-yard run—Norton (D), Neal (D),
Fuller (W F). Time,-2 minutes 7.6 seconds.

Mile—Lafferty (D), Fuller (W F),
Goodwin (D). Time, 4 minutes 43.5  sec-
onds.

Two miles—Brannon (D), Murphy (D),
Readling (W F). Time, 10 minutes 20 4-5
seconds.

High hurdles—Whittle (D), George (D),
Cox (W F), Time 15.3 seconds.

Low hurdles—Whittle (D), George (D),
Byrd (W F). Time 25.3 seconds.

High jump—Wilson (D), tied for second
King (W F), Miller (W F), and Gardner
(D). Height, 5 feet 8 inches.

Broad jump—McCall (D), Kinsey (W
F), Gardner (D). Distance, 23 feet one-half
inch.

Pole vault—Tied for first, Jones (W F),
Smith (D), Roane (D). Height, 10 feet
8 inches. i

Shot put—Boyle (D), Dupre (W F),
Webb (W PF). Distance, 39 feet.

Discus—Boyle (D), Regen (D),
(D). Distance, 112 feet 2 inches.

Javelin—Dupre (W F), Coble (D), Mc-
Call (D). Distance, 182 feet 8 inches.

Hall

PRESS CONVENTION

(Continued from page 1)

Chairman or Womenf; Edwin Hedrich,
Chairman for Men.
Program Committee—C. Mac Mannis,

Chairman; T. C. Johnson, Clyde Pugh, Anne
Robbins, and T. Olin Mathews.
Speakers—-T. C. Johnson.

Feature Committee—T. Olin Mathews,
Chairman; J. P. Dosier, Edward Robinson.

FRESH TENNIS TEAM

(Continued from page 1)
team, may enter Davidson in 1932, This year
Darlington has defeated the following
schools: Alabama Military Institute, Mc-
Callie School (Chattanooga), Fulton High
(Atlanta), University School (Atlanta).
Tech High and Boys’ High, both of At-
lanta, and Baylor (Chattanooga).

The Freshman tennis team went on a trip
through the State, playing four matches and
Winning all of them. The first match was
with Charlotte High in Charlotte, the racq-
ueters of Davidson Freshman defeated those
boys by the close score of 5-4. At Elon, al-
though handicapped by the meagerness of
equipment, the Freshmen overcame their
varsity by the score of 6-3. The final vic-
tory was over the Oak Ridge team at Oak
Ridge. This was won by the score of 5-1,
only six matches being played on account of
the lack of a sufficient number of courts.

4 te
Coots
AN

LOvE LIKE ou
MUTTERED MARMADUKE, Zhichy

‘*You’d be surprised,” replied the sprightly Sophia. “With a rasping
voice like yours, love is likely to fly out of the window and land on
the back of its neck. What our love needs is insurance.”

QR beh S eRe PO
— RES SVE LESS |,

Ah ALL

SJ
TY a's {Rene wr
ASC a LSE L AA

‘‘What insurance?” he wondered:

‘‘The insurance of OLD GOLDS, boy friend. Throat-ease and tender
tones caused by the mellow, mild, heart-leaf tobacco; vocal cords that act
without a struggle; no tickle, scratch or scrape. OLD GOLD yourself, .
Marmie, and we shall be inseparable. There’s not a bark in a billion.”

FASTEST GROWING CIGARETTE IN HISTORY
seeee e+ +eeNOTA COUGH IN A CARLOAD

Listen in... OLD GOLD—PAUL WHITEMAN HOUR, every Tuesday, 9 P.M., Rastern Time

RS CAN NEVER DIE.

'P. Lecillard Co.

