N

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 13, 1930 a

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
iegiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

—

ZEis_V. LONG, Jr... Editor-in-Chief
E. H. McCALL Busi Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
. B, BLACK Managing Editor
« W. McCUTCHAN. ......3.2..p0cenccen une Managing Editor
. C. RAGIN -_.... Managing Editor
P._R. ALDERMAN Athletic Editor
J. V. D, MIDDLETON. ......2..2.-. 0c... Assignment Editor
J. F. PRESTON.... ‘eature Editor
Fi L. BROWN .... Feature Editor
. F, JARRATT...... A iate Editor
F. D. MILLER A iate Editor
C. M. PRATT. A i Editor
a —————————_—_—_——— OES
BUSINESS STAFF

. A. CANNON. A 1
£4. Gove Hc Sabecription Mer
A. J. BAKER__ ..--Solicitor
P. M. CONWAY....... licitor
J. H. McKINNON licitor
- O. MANN. olicitor
. E. RUFF. Solicitor
. L. SEVIER Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB

&

. S. HEEFNER

Bi Se ce aig sea eM © Preaident
W. C. RAGIN ._..-..-_ Vice-Presid
}: % PD EDUDDLETON Secretary-Treasurer
.G. G. DUNKLID
. C. MATTHEWS . S. LEA
. G. MARTIN C. W. F. SPENCER
J. R. SMITH W. T. HAN K
2 2. STEPHENSON JOHN M. BROWN
EE BORON G, P. PARDINGTON
ere MATTHEWS, W. H.
ae ithe DWELLE, E. C.
SEE

e MARCH 13, 1930.
Se
THE VOICE OF THE. CAMPUS

The usual excitement, or perhaps it would be
better to say intense interest, which accompanies
elections at Davidson, will be in evidence tomor-
row morning as ballots are cast for next year’s
student body president. Then for several weeks the
“body. politic” will be occupied, Freshmen will
undoubtedly get the greater thrill out of the pro-
ceedings, for it will be their first attempt to in-
fluence student government.

Junior Speaking has lost every attribute ex-
cept its name, and gone are the days when
orators and refreshments, served under the
trees, captivated admiring throngs. Those
forms of entertainment;were superlative then;
perhaps the sort indulged in this week is mere-
ly the natural’ evolution of college life. Any-
how, Junior Speaking always means a high
spot in the year.

Golf courtesy is coming into strict observance at
Davidson, and the player who disregards the regu-
lations announced by the faculty’s committee will
find himself in “dutch.” Of course, they are going
about a worthwhile matter in a worthwhile way,
and golf “bugs” won’t find anything to complain
about in the new rules.

We'd like to recommend these “Y” Vespers
to your attention. It’s seldom that the speaker
fails to strike his mark of an inspirational
address. A lot of fellows here would miss that

service more than they think if it should be
taken away.

Track prospects look fairly good. We won't be
too glowing about the team right here at the start,
but it’s a safe bet that it will be capable of stirring
up a good deal of commotion with competition
afforded by this section. Keep ’em in the running—
to say nothing“8f the jumping, hurdling, and so
on—by good strong support.

Tex Tilson’s grin Saturday was a mile wide,
and there seems to be a reason this time sure
sure enough. If something doesn’t break the
wrong way before September first, you will
see one of the best Wildcat grid teams ever to
take the field in action. We figure the games
dropped next year will be few and far between.

ELECTIONS

As the student body goes into its annual
spring elections tomorrow morning, it ufder-
takes a task calling for the utmost care and
discrimination. Any minor considerations which
might influence the casting of a vote should be
laid aside, and the proposition faced with the
determination to register a desire, at least, for
what appears to be greatest good in respective
fields. There are many elements which appertain
to leaders fit for guiding student affairs. Some
men display one characteristic prominently,
some another, and when the ideal is sought it
is often very hard to find. That ideal is a good
thing to keep in mind, however, for it may aid
one in making the wise decision, which we

~ believe every voter honestly wants to make.

Davidson student bodies, as a rule, go about
their elections in a very sensible manner, omit-
ting many of the objectional features which are
found in numerous colleges, and which tend to

~

make the selection of candidates a mere farce,
based on anything but the true capability of
the nominee. That they do so is a credit to the
institution, and a guarantee that, in most’ cases,
the elections will turn out for the best. Another
factor which contributes to the effectiveness of
the system here is the good fortune enjoyed by
the school in having such a large number of
really capable men at its disposal. It is doubt-
ful if another student body in the country can
offer as many candidate who meet the require-
ments of good leaders. That sometimes makes
the choice hard, but it also makes it sure. We
are not worrying very much about the men who
will soon be chosen to handle things next year,
or about the important matters with which they
will have to deal.

FRIENDS AGAIN?

Duke University and the University of North
Carolina are engaging in an interesting series
of maneuvers at present. They are trying to
find out just what they must do to close the
gap which has made relations between the two
institutions so unpleasant in years gone by.
Students of the respective duelists make so
much of the enmity which exists, that the state
at large has come to expect a scrap when the
two are mentioned in the same breath. Proba-
bly the state of affairs has been exaggerated.
We hope it has, However, bad blood does stand
between the student bodies to mar any measure
of co-operation.

Apparently weary of flaunting one virtue or
accomplishment against: another to no avail,
the student governments of the universities
have taken steps to bring about mutual under-
standing and good fellowship. Joint meetings
have been held, and peace speeches made by
leaders from each place. Suggestions for im-
proving relations were soon forthcoming,
among them being reciprocal admission to

.athletic contests, joint meetings of various so-

cieties, and most interesting of all, joint meet-
ings of the two faculties to study problems of
mutual concern. Dean Bradshaw, of U.N. C.,
has expressed confidence in the possibilities of
the latter method. Another idea advanced was
for. the formation of a college conference with-
in the state for discussion of student life. This
would embrace Davidson, N. C. State, and
Wake Forest.

It is mighty fine to see these enemies-to-the-
death make a start in the right direction. Any
sort of progressive spirit calls for it. But—we
want to see how it works at the next football
game the Blue Devils and Tar Heels play. They
should have begun overtures before the one
last fall. Nobody who saw the antagonism
which extended beyond the playing field that
day would doubt the need for a change.

“THINK THIS OVER”

We clip from one of our exchanges a short
article with the above heading. We earnestly
commend its sentiment and re-echo its warn-
ing.

Here is the article:

Youth is proverbially thoughtless. And the
tendency of the passing age inclines to small
consideration of results. Conflicts with college
authorities or with the officers of the law are
taken lightly as something to be smiled at.
“What’s the odds?”

“The odds” are sometimes greater to par-
ents and relations than they are to those who
ask the question. A leading lawyer and beloved
citizen of Derby, New Hampshire, has just
gone to his death by suicide after the sudden
collapse of his mind. His long and useful life
showed not the slightest stain. He enjoyed the
confidence and esteem of his fellows. His mar-

-ried life was happier than the ordinary. Two

boys and a girl brightened the home and gave
promise to parents of a serene evening of life
in the companionship of children.

But one of the sons, lately a student at the
University of his native State, did not follow
in the steps of his father. He fell into evil ways
and finally engaged in a series of thefts and
dynamitings that brought him into conflict with
the law. He was found guilty and sentenced to
the State penitentiary. The term was three to
five years,

The heart and mind of the father were
crushed. He seemed to be unable to rise from
the blow. A son whom he fondly loved and
whom he had proudly watched grow to man-
hood had wrecked his life. His mind gave way
and he went to his death at the very hour when
he had been scheduled to deliver a dedicatory
address at the new library in his city.

Does the thrill of the riotous excitement of
one kind or another balance up against the pos-
sibility of wrecking the lives of those who have
cared for one tenderly from infancy to tman-
hood ?

es
Think it over, son!

There are six citizens who are intensely happy |

at the present moment... or we miss our guess.
They are members of the Byrd Antartic Expedition
which has been in the frozen South for some time.
On Monday they arrived at Dunedin, New Zealand,
and reported all of the personnel well and. safe, if
not exactly thriving. Peary, Nansen, Scott, and
others would look with amazed scorn on the mod-
ern equpiment and transportation used in polar
exploration. There are few hours at which a mod-
ern party cannot get in instant touch with civiliza-
tion. We cannot refrain from mentioning the tale
rumored about Washington several years ago con-
cerning the Greely trip into the Far North. It was
reported that, in desperate straits, the body of a
cabin boy was used as food. Lieutenant Greely be-
came exceedingly angry and offered to duel with
the man who originated the story. It may or may
not have been true. In times of perishing hunger
men often forget the things they do or say. It is
best so.

Tales of medieval torture come from the sor-
did crime belt surrounding Chicago. Theodore
Kopelman, an insurance man, was seized, car-
ried to a deserted cottage on the lakes, and
threatened. He asserts that the kidnappers ac-
tually heated irons red-hot in preparation to
tortue him. It would appear that blackmailing
and its accompanying arts have failed to keep

- pace in the rapid advance of civilization; the
Chicagoans fail to show originality at any rate.
Such instruments were employed as late as the
time of Ivanhoe and the Spanish Inquisition,
but have fallen into disrepute since that date.
Chicago means little to us, for we have no de-
sire to beard Al Capone or any of his asso-
ciates. However, it would be a pity if a stray
bullet would hit any of the “Original Night-
hawks.”

One is inclined to sympathize with the efforts of
the Piedmont and Northern Railway. For quite a
number of years, the directors of this independent
traction company have been endeavoring to estab-
lish a trunk-line system along the Atfantic Sea-
board. Opposed to this plan are the Southern, the
Norfolk and Western, the Atlantic Coast Line, and

‘other roads. The only important effect which the

writer can foresee is that there will be renewed
competition, which in turn will probably bring
about lower freight rates. The.Southern farmer
will be fortunate if he can have easy access to the
Virginia ports. The Southern Railway System
“Serves the South,” and evidently intends to keep
right on serving it, itself.

Health officers are alarmed at the news that
103 citizens of Tennessee are suffering from an
unknown malady supposedly incurred by the
drinking of “white mule.” Other evidence tends
to place the blame on “Jake,” or Jamaica Ging-
er. Less than a week ago, more than a score of
the residents of Oklahoma City were stricken
with the identical trouble. Efforts of medical
experts to fully diagnose the cases have proved
fruitless. It is possible that the presence of a
malignant danger to physical health will prove
equally effective with prohibition. Many people

regard themselves as more important than the
law.

In many ways England has a more perfect de-
mocracy than does the United States. In our coun-
try, the voter has little or no part in the diplomatic
affairs as conducted with foreign powers. The rep-
resentatives of the United States at the recent dis-
armament conference, in London, had the power
to agree to any proposal which might be pleasing
to them or to the political power behind them. Eng-
land’s attitude was clearly shown by the narrow
margin with which Premier MacDonald passed a
bill through their legislative channels. If the bill
had not gone through there would have been a
new election immediately. It is an admirable
scheme. The heathen natives of Britain’s colonies
look upon the King as the great white guiding
spirit; the Englishman cherishes his position as an
Englishman. Royalty is generally less dangerous
to the proletariat than the politician who runs on a
Democratic ticket in one state and a Republican
ticket in another.

Student: “Hey, I wanna exchange this book.”

Doc.: “To late; you’ve had it a whole term.”

Student: “But I just found out that every other
page is missing.”

First Doc: “In all my experience I’ve never seen
so many scars On one man.”
Second Doc: “War veteran or husband?”

And there’s the scotchman who bought a life-
time fountain pen in his baby’s name.

She was only a multi-millionaire’s daugter, but
what chex appeal!

I will attempt to run a series of articles about
the important events in the lives of famous men.
Now, my only difficulty is to find the famous men
to write about. All wishing to apply as subject mat-
ter please remember that the line forms on the left.
No shove—no poosh. I will now begin with the
first article.

Harry the Hobo
or
They Called Him Caesar, Because He Was
Always A-Roamin’

CHAPTER I
Doing the Bum-Bum

Although Harry was the scion of one of the
noblest families of the Bowery, he failed to show
any intention of keeping up the good name of his
people. Even at an early age, he began to show
traits of being a tramp at heart. He was soon nick-
named “Flannel,” because he used to shrink from
washing. However, he was a friendly little fellow,
and was very fond of helping Mama. One day, his
Papa came home and found him puttering around
on the front porch. He batted him affectionately
on the head and went on in the house. Later, he
called to Harry and said, “Son, what are you do-
ing?” “I’m painting the front door, Papa,” piped
the lad. “What color are you painting it, my
dove?” asked the doting parent. “Black, Papa,” was
the angelic reply. At this the father roared, “Get
out of my house and never darken my door again!”
And so, Harry was on the bum again.

CHAPTER II
Tramp, Tramp, Tramp

Came the yawn. All went well with lil Harry
until one dark day when he fell in with a dull,
sickening thug. This brute was very cruel to him,
and would beat Harry until he was black and blue,
just because blue was his favorite color. However,
Harry managed to escape and went to Mexico, He
went to the first house that he saw and knocked
on the door. A lady came to the door and demanded
what he wanted. “Kin I cut your grass for my
dinner, ma’am?” he asked. “Of course,” replied the
kind old lady, “but you don’t need to cut it. You
can eat it just as it is.” “What kind of weather do
they have here in Mexico?” asked Harry. “Oh,
just Chile today and Hot Tamale,” replied the good
woman as she slammed the door in his face.

Harry then began to wander about the town
looking at the various points of interest. On one of
the street corners, he saw a silver plate inlaid in
the sidewalk. “What is this for?” he asked a pass-
er-by. “Why, that’s where our last president fell,”
he explained. “No wonder,” said Harry, “I nearly
slipped on it myself.” .

About that time, a very intoxicated citizen ap-
proached Harry and said, “Shay, fellow, where am
1?” Harry looked up at the sign and replied,
“You're at the corner of San Jose and Chihuahua
Streets.” “Hey,” said the drunk, “nev’ min’ the de-
tailsh. What town ish it?” Naturally, after this,
Harry could not remain in Mexico, so he hopped a
rather for parts unknown.

CHAPTER III
The Count of Hobo Kin

Harry arrived in a little mining town late one
night tired and hungry. He had the exetreme good
fortune to wander right into the midst of a pie-
eating contest. “Food,” cried Harry and dipping his
mug into slab of pie. However, as the contest
waxed furious, the favorite began to forge ahead.
As dawn broke, the favorite came in first, while
Harry came in sickened. The sheriff found Harry
walking around town pie-eyed and threw him in
the gaol. He spent the rest of his miserable ex-
istence playing tit-tat-too on the walls of his cell.

Moral: Do not calculate upon your juvenile
poultry until the proper process of incubation has
fully materialized.

Marriage may be the road to happiness, but
there’s much more fun traveling in detours.

She: “I spent my time up in the mountains this
week-end.”

He: “Did you have a guide?”

She: “Well, only my conscience.”

THE POET’S CORNER

CHALLENGE
The quiet and courageous night,
The keen vibration of the stars,
Calls me, from morbid peace, to fight
The world’s forlorn and desperate wars.

The air throbs like a rolling drum—
The brave hills and the singing sea,
Unrest and people’s faces come
Like battle-trumpets, rousing me.
And while Life’s lusty banner flies,
I shall assail, with raging mirth,
The sco and untroubled skies,
The cold complacency of earth.
Louis Untermeyer.
