THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 20, 1930

Rome and Atlanta Alumni
Meetings Held Last Week

One in Georgia Metropolis Was
Largest in History of

That Chapter

(Editor’s Note: The following account of
the Atlanta meeting was written especially
for the alumni page by Harllee Branch, Jr.,
formerly assistant alumni secretary.)

By Harllee Branch, Jr.

Approximately forty members of the At-
lanta-Davidson College Alumni Association,
comprising one of the largest gatherings in
the history of the local organization, gathered
at the Henry Grady Hotel Friday night to
hear an enthusiastic and enlightening address
on “Wildcat Athletics” by Capt. Norton G.
Pritchett, Davidson College director of phy-
sical education. Captain Pritchett’s address,
scheduled as the principal feature on the
program for the annual dinner-meeting of
the Atlanta association, attracted graduates
from several distant Georgia cities.

So widespread was the interest manifested
in his visit that a number of Davidson grad-
uates, hitherto unaffiliated with the Atlanta
group, crowded into the banquet hall to greet
him and hear his message—incidentally, the
first direct communication from the faculty
‘of the College to reach Atlanta in a number
of years. Advance reservations pointed to 2
probable attendance of less than twenty,
but long before the meeting got under way,
additional chairs and tables had to be put in
place to provide for the “unexpected” guests.

Dr. Taliaferro Thompson, '05, prominent
Davidson graduate and member of the facul-
ty at the Union Theological Seminary, Rich-
mond, Va., attended the dinner as the guest
of Scott Candler, alumni trustee. Doctor
Thompson is conducting a series of religious
meetings at the First Présbyterian Church
in Decatur. He spoke briefly of his..student-
days at Davidson and of his continuing in-
terest in all matters pertaining to the welfare
and advancement of the College.

Resolutions, paying tribute to the brilliant
record of the late Dr. John Bonar White,
10, former president of the Atlanta Alumni
Association and one of the south’s most
highly respected physicians, were adopted
during the meeting. Doctor White died sud-
denly on January 23, his death depriving the
local association: of one of its most beloved
members.

Clisby B. DuBose, '28, now a traveling
representative of the Harper Publishing Co.,
of New York, was one of the out-of-town
alumni who attended the dinner.

Officers elected for the ensuing year «in-
cluded Harllee Branch, Jr., president; Dr.
S. C. Marks, Jr., vice-president, and W. S.
Woods, secretary-treasurer.

Rome Meeting

While no official report has been received
by the alumni secretary from authorities in
Rome, Ga., a letter from Capt. Norton G.
Pritchett, director of physical education who
is attending a series of seven alumni meet-
ings, disclosed the information that about ten
men met for a dinner at the Hotel General
Forest.

The assembled alumni discussed a perman-
ent organization, but decided to perfect a
temporary one, selecting Roland B. Parker,
26, as secretary. Mr.’ Parker was the indi-
vidual responsible for getting the Davidson
men of that section together.

Captain Pritchett reported an incident that
frequently occurs at alumni meetings. He
told of two men meeting at the dinner who
were friends in Rome, but neither wasaware
of the fact that each had attended Davidson
as a student. At a Greensboro meeting two
years ago two Davidson alumni living only
two doors apart met at a dinner, and it was
the first time that either knew they were
alumni of the same institution.

Strawberry Youngblood is so lazy he
can’t decide whether to stay in bed all
morning or to get up early so he'll have
a longer day to loaf.

a

And there’s the’Scotchman who bought
a lifetime fountain pen in his baby’s
mame., :

Alumni Deaths

Personal Notes

J. D. Douglas, ’83

The president of the Northeastern Florida
Alumni Association reported this week that
James Byers Douglas, of Grainesville, Fla.,
had died January 16. Mr. Douglas graduated
from Davidson in 1883, having entered here
from Winsboro, S. C. After graduating he
was connected with Eastman College, Pough-
keepsie, N. Y., in the accounting depart-
ment, but later became a merchant at Reids-
ville, S. C., Whitesville, Fla., and at the
time of his death was located in the mercan-
tile business at Gainesville, Fla. He was 68
years old at the time of his demise.

. Hon. O. L. Clark, '86
“Oscar Lee Clark, of Clarkton, farmer,
merchant, legislater and educator, died at
his home Tuesday night, February 11, after
an illness extending over the past three years.
His prominence in the eastern part of North
Carolina was attested to by the hundreds of

lowing day.

Immediately after his graduating from
Davidson in 1886 he began an active life in
that section that continued until: his death.
In 1888 he and his brother purchased their
father’s mercantile business, and when he
died the concern was still operating. He was
president of the Clarkton Tobacco Ware-
house Association, a large corporation own-
ing two warehouses.

For two terms Mr. Clark served in the
North Carolina senate, and each time he
was elected not a single vote was cast against
him. His work in that legislative body was
effective, as is evidenced by the measures
in effect today which he championed as a
State Senator. He was a trustee of Davidson
for four years, and a director of N, C. State
College for 20 years. Other prominent offices
which he held was chairman of the board of
directors of the Bank of Bladen, vice-presi-

pany, of Lumberton, chairman of the coun-
cil of defense for Bladen and food adminis-
trator during the World War.

Among the Davidson alumni surviving him
are a brother, Dr. Byron Clark, '90, of Salis-
bury, and a son C. S. Clark, '09, of Clark-
ton.

Harry E. Dodge To
Speak Here For “Y”

The “Y” speaker for Sunday, February
23 will be Harry E. Dodge, who is a lec-
turer and who for twenty years has been
general secretary of the Fall River, Mass.,
Young Men’s Christian Association. Mr.
Dodge is in Charlotte, this week, holding
a series of addresses for the boys of.the
city and Mecklenburg County, under the
auspices of the Charlotte Y. M. C. A.

Davidson is indeed fortunate in securing
Mr. Dodge as he has been a°Y¥. M. C. A.
secretary for a number of years, having
specialized in work with boys and young
men.

In Charlotte he will speak at schools,
boys’ clubs, and before civic organiza-
tions. Wednesday night at 6:15 o’clock he
will go on.the air over radio station WBT.

“Y” Vespers will be held this Sunday at
6:00 o’clock in Shearer Hall.

First Doc: “In all my experience I’ve
never seen so many scars on one man.”

Second Doc: “War veteran or hus-
band?”

STOP
that
COLD and COUGH
take

fhe “QUICK RELIEF” Cold Remedy for
College Students, cold bye Collen Student

YOUR UVRUGGIST i Jim Gallewsy
HAS COLDEX U. 8. C3

friends who attended his funeral the fol- |p

Dr. Henry Louis Smith, ’81, of Greens-
boro, former president of Davidson and
Washington and Lee, has accepted an invita-
tion to deliver the commencement address of
High Point College next June.

Owen A. Chatham, ’28, who has been as-
sistant cashier of the First Industrial Bank
of Winston-Salem, has been elected cashier
of the Mount Airy branch of that bank.

Friends will-regret to learn of the death
of Mrs. Mary P. James, of Laurinburg,
mother of Major A. J. James, ’06, of Char-
lotte, and Hinton James, ’06, W. S. James,
‘14, and M. J. James, ’24, all of Laurinburg.

James T. Maddrey, of Winston-Salem, has
been elected treasurer of the Salvation Army
in that city, succeeding Mayor Geo. W.
Coan, Jr., ’11, resigned.

Dr. L. G. Beall, 99, of Black Mountain,
is interested in two recently formed corpora-
tions, known as Beallmont Park Company,
and Beallmont Park Sanatorium.

Alumni Marriages

Kluttz-Stevens

Dr. DeWitt Kluttz, ’16, of Greenville, S.
C., and Miss Annie Stevens, of York, S. C,,
were married in York at the home of the
bride’s aunt on Saturday, February 15. The
wedding was a quiet one, witnessed by a few
relatives and friends. The attendants were
Miss Sara Stevens, of Winston-Salem, neice
of the bride, and Lex Kluttz, ’15, of Raleigh,
brother of the groom.

Mrs. Kluttz was educated at Queens Col-
lege. Doctor Kluttz graduated from David-
son in 1916, obtaining his master of art's
degree the following year. He attended the
University of North Carolina medical school
and later graduated from the Jefferson Medi-
cal College in Philadelphia. At present he is
practicing in Greenville, S. C.

Many Davidson friends were grieved to
learn last week of the death of Mrs. Mary
A. Blythe, of Charlotte, mother of Fred L.
Blythe, '07, who is connected with the David-
son faculty but is now on a year’s leave of
absence, studying for his doctorate degree
in Spain.

Births

Dr. L. M. Fetner, ’11, and Mrs. Fetner,
of Charlotte, announce the birth of a son,
Lawrence M., on February 10.

Dr: Roy H. Morrison, 16, and Mrs. Mor-
rison, of Asheville, announce the birth of
a daughter, Helen Elizabeth, on February
12.

E. P. Nisbet, 17, and Mrs. Nisbet, of
Charlotte, announce the birth of a daughter,
Eugene Heath, of February 13.

T. T. Allison, ’00, of Charlotte, has been
unanimously elected a member of the Char-
lotte school board. !

Davidson alumni on the program of the
Tri-State Medical Society meeting at Char-
leston, S. ‘C., were Dr. J. W. Gibbon, ’14,
and Dr. A. G. Brenizer, ’82, both of Char-
lotte. Davidson men who are former presi-
dents of this society are Dr. J. A. Hodges,
79, of Richmond, Va., and Dr. J. P. Munroe,
’82, of Charlotte.

dent of the-LaFayette Life Insurance Com- |.

case in point.

Here the customer is placed at once on
a friendly personal basis with the company

“OUR PIONEERING

ore
Cy

7

counter.

PET WEPeT TESTS alld

Removing mental barriers

In the Bell Telephone System men are
constantly studying new ways to make the
customer’s dealings with the company
easy and pleasant. The new ‘‘counter-
less’? idea, now being introduced in the
telephone ‘company’s business offices, is a

representative. He is invited to sit down
comfortably and discuss his business. Cer-
tainly more satisfactory than standing at a

This single instance represents a point
of view which telephone men think is im-

portant. Telephone service calls for engi-

understanding.

BELL SYSTEM

WORK HAS

neering skill and more—it needs human

A nation-wide system of imper-connecting telephones

JUST BEGU‘N”
