N

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 13, 1930

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

~ FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 19)5

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as A ti ola ass matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolind.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

Nhe Pen ree SSS LKaELaKSedo uO Editor-in-Chief
PERT Pee ne POR ENC ern amp Business Manager

E, ©. DWELLE, JRicccsccpeccon pe cccccu cols 5, Managing Editor
WIS, DEAs.2....-.-. --Managing Editor
D. G. MARTIN..--- -;Managing Editor
Wi cH MATIH EW Sicdiisacsce cc cdcte nc seeeecs Sports Editor
Vi M,-BELL....2....-. --Feature Editor
NORMAN RAIES --Feature Editor
A. R. JACKSON.-.-- Review Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN_. Associate Editor
yb -BUACKss..5<-< --Associate Editor
lia GEURA GIN sbebcucas ceccdnacdbssuleagauicase Associate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
Piet GON WAY accosccccstnesce Assistant Business Manager
A. .-Assistant Business Manager
J. B. STEVENS...-.--.-. .-Assistant Business Manager
A. G. MONTGOMERY..----.--..------- Subscription Manager
P. F, BROWN...------- -Solicitor
R.
A.
A. y , ici
W. R. MORROW. -Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB

ery pe yes ..--President
. STE ice- President
; tary-Treasurer
R. H. ALDERM BROWN
. G. é G. E, BAILEY
-R BOYD
. B. J. G. DUNKLIN
E, O. pee RRANT W. T. HANCOCK
J. E. LA R. L. MeCALLIE
k C. MATTHEWS Cc. F. MYER
V. F. MULLISS H, F. NICHOLS
Gir Eun S. P. PRESTON
Cc. W. SPENCER B, B. SUGG
B. B. TAYLOR W. B. WARD
J. R. SMITH D. D. McBRYDE

NOVEMBER 13, 1930

“Quoth Friar John,
we making?’

‘what kind of voyage are

—Rabelais.

SUGGESTIONS
" Doctor Laing gave every student a better im-
pression of the nature and purpose of the classics.
Aeschylus and Euripides are not boring if one
really gets to know them. Few people are!

After seeing the Elizabethan Players we cannot
help but think that the average student would ap-
preciate the Master of the Avon much more if
they could see his plays before reading them.

Every student in North Carolina should con-
gratulate Duke on its victory over Kentucky, Ship-
wreck or no Ship-wreck!

William and Mary College recently presented
Governor Pollard of Virginia two original Latin
verses in payment, as an annual quitrent, for its
20,000 acres of land. A rather convenient relic of
an antiquated feudal system! The land was granted
by King William and Queen Mary; the verse is
composed in elegaic distich. _

Captain Frank Hawkes seems to be stealing
Lindbergh’s glory. For some reason we do not be-
lieve Lindbergh will harbor any jealousy; he has
had a perpetual fight with reporters.

We wonder how many people in this day and
time would prefer hearing the strains from Ole
Bull’s violin to listening to Rudy Vallee.

JUST AS A MATTER OF COURSE

Davidson men are gentlemen; there has never
been any question of that statement. As such
they naturally form friendships among people
who are not students at the college. Occasion-
ally they like to have these friends visit them.
Likewise there are men who make a distinct
effort to have their parents and relatives come

to see them on the campus. That is as it should
be.

However, it must be rather disconcerting to
a guest to be greeted with all manner of cries,
shouts, together with a general uproar. The
average student does not give his own friend
such a welcome; why should he turn right
around and treat the friend of his friend in a
different manner? We believe it is the result
of thoughtlessness and not the design of pre-
meditation,

It is a law among many uncivilized tribes
that a stranger must be given every mark of
hospitality, especially after he has eaten with
his host. After three days’ enmity, if such ex-
ists, may assert itself. Few visitors remain on
or near the campus for more than three days.

It would require very little effort on the
part of every individual student to completely
alter a rather annoying atmosphere which
sometimes exists. Granting that particular
guests are not greeted in this manner, consider
their reaction and impressions when they hear
another so hailed!

We do not desire to cast the impression that

a major sin exists because of this attitude. But,

we do deem it to affect a few of the smaller

. points of etiquette which every student knows,

but which he sometimes unintentionally for-
gets.’

&
PREPARE FOR CAROLINA

“Wildcat Spirit’ and its component parts

have long been‘a subject with which the editors ‘|

of past, Davidsonians have delighted to con-

jure. Like any other factor it can become over- |

used and even hackneyed if mentioned often
enough. We do not wish to be considered lack-
ing in appreciation of this universally admitted
feeling on the campus, just because it has been
lauded only in scattering comments. Because of
its omnipresence in the minds of students it
did not seem fitting that it should be continu-
ally thrust in their faces.

Recently, just cause has been given why it
should be again discussed. It would seem that
a public expression of doubt as to the potency
of that “spirit” would be sufficient reason to
wonder if there is not some evidence of a let-
down, In addition to this there have been indi-
vidual conversations in which the same fear
played a prominent part, It should be evident
that, regardless of whether there is due proof
for such a dwindling of psychological confi-
dence or not, there will soon be just-reason to
fear the results if they are continually consid-
ered and discussed,

Possibly casual evidence of such a tendency

_could pass unnoticed if there was one iota of

justification for it. However, we cannot find,
either in athletics or in general policy of the
campus, a real fact which would admit such
doubtful reaction on the part of even a few of
the student. body. Compared with many pre-
vious years, the present football season has
been peculiarly gratifying. Few Davidson
teams have ever before amassed a like .propor-
tion of points scored to their opponents’ count-
ers. Mentally and logically the cause cannot lie
there.

It would be difficult for any person to at-
tempt to place the blame for such mental reac-
tion, if it exists, at any one door. If we were
forced to blame anything, however, the follow-
ing would be our decision: The student body
of the college is not as closely knit together as
it once was. Modern methods of transporta-
tion have made it possible for a much larger
numberof men to absent themselves temporar-
ily during week-ends and through the week.
Individual interests are taking the place of those
formerly entertained by the group. Because he
goes other places the student thinks of other
things rather than the affairs of his school.
This may or may not be wholly true. If it is,
it is only’ skin deep; it has not yet become a
chronic disorder.

On Saturday the Carolina Tar Heels come
to Richardson. Considering the contest from
every point of view, it will probably be the
toughest which the Wildcats have had to face
or will have to face this season. It has been a
precedent and ‘tradition that Davidson teams
always play their best game of the year against
the University of North Carolina. There is
no reason to believe that this year will prove
an exception, a

Any skeptical doubter who may wonder as
to what steps the team and coaches are taking
in preparation for the contest are invited to
go down to the practice field and observe. The
entire squad is giving everything it has to puil
down a victory. Last year Davidson was some-
what hampered by lack of reserves; this year
the bench is filled with men who are ready
and capable.

While the team is. working there is no argu-
ment why the students should not be doing the
same thing. We have heard stronger support
from the stands than was forthcoming on last
Saturday. There are still a few new yells which
the cheer leaders hesitate to use, because they
are afraid that the student body does not know
them. There are few things that take the pep
away from the cheer leaders, the team, and the
other rooters more than a half-hearted yell.

Since we have thrown ourselves into the-sub-
ject, there is yet another thing! Occasionally
yells have been started at the same time that a
backfield man has started around end or
through the line. The usual fate of this yell is
to dwindle completely out and die about the
time the tackle is made. The effect is not exactly
inspiring. Team work should consist not only
in co-operation between members of the team,
but also in connection with the team and stu-
dent body,

We do not intend to use any illustrations of
rotten spots in apples and the like. We will even
admit that we may be wrong in our belief;
we hope we are. Again, it is possible that we
are not entirely mistaken.

At any rate, we believe that Davidson men
are capable of better support than they gave
last Saturday. As we have said before, the Car-
olina game should be the best contest seen here
this year. There should be little doubt but what
the yelling and cheering should also be the best
of the season. It will take the united effort of
every man in the student body to achieve vic-
tory. We are waiting to hear the “bell ring.”

Ca

What Do You Know
About?

1. The National Elections?

2. Capone’s Coup?

3. Buy Now, Not By and By?
4. Dangers of Lawful Wedlock?

On Tuesday, November 4, all America went to
the “polls to cast their votes for the rightful -rep-
resentatives of the American people -in Congress,
and to choose those men who will make our laws
during the next two years. The campaigns had
been devoted solely to telling the people how badly
the Republicans had mismanaged the government
and had put the country where it is today; or in
telling: these same people that the’ Democrats
would have left things in twice as bad shape if
they had been in. The words of the song depended
solely on which party you were a member of.

When the smoke of battle cleared away and
all voters had been counted two or three days
later, it was found that the G. O. P. had'a lead

of one in the Senate—holding 48 out of the 96

seats—47 went to the Democrats and one was

off-color. The lead of the Republicans in the

House is about the same.

Listing what general observers take the results
find that: Democrats knocked G. O.
P. leadership into a cocked hat. Legislation can be
tied into all sorts of knots now. A coalition of
insurgents who switch their votes will decide which
Way many important Questions turn. Hoover will
be practically powerless for the rest of his ad-
ministration, which seems destined to end in two
more years. Little change in: tariff likely. Wets
seem to think they have gained a great deal. Eu-
rope jubilant over outcome,

to mean, we

“Marconi has a mind like my own.”—Thomas

A. Edison.

Al Capone,
power

Scarface boss of Chicago's Tracket-
world, behind many thrones in that
city, came forward recently with a startling offer,
one that shows just how the government of the
metropolis of the Middle West stands. He offered
to give himself up on a charge of vagrancy. and
leave the city permanently on two conditions :

and

The first was that charges be immediately
dismissed against him when he gave himself
up. The second was that police promise to let
his business go on without molestation or ‘in-
terference on the part of the authorities.

What Al really is saying is that he will move his
residence to come other community if the city will
let his business alone. He acknowledges that he
has no intention of retiring just yet, but will run
things by long distance through his henchmen.
Chicago has no statements to offer on the pro-
posal.

Incidentally, a biography of the East-Side
gangster, is one of the leading books of the
present day, based on sales. The last line reads:
“The trigger-finger writes—”

“My way of joking is to tell the truth. That
is the funniest joke in the world.”—George Ber-
nard Shaw.

In an effort to help America snap out of her
present business depression, community leaders are
sponsoring a “Buy Now” campaign all over the
United States. The backers of the movement con-
tend that if everybody spent 15 cents per day more
than at present, it would soon have over 1,000,000
unemployed men back at work, and that with
these men, who at present are idle, back on the
payrolls of the nation, prosperity would soon re-
turn,

The unemployment is at present what is
holding back the recovery, leaders say, and
when that is removed, things will be well on
the way to a speedy recovery. The difference
between depression and normality in the United
States is said to be one dollar per week per
capita.

“I have been arrested in better towns than
this. (Philadelphia).”—Jack (Legs) Diamond.

After danger of married life that we had hitherto
failed to realize was brought to light recently.
Mrs. May Brin recently died in a New York hos-
pital from blood poisoning. That in itself is not
especially startling, but the cause of the poison-
ing is. ;

It seems that one night while she was asleep, she
inadvertently stuck her finger into her husband's
mouth, which happened to be open. He suddenly
closed his mouth and bit the finger badly. Blood
poisoning soon set in in the injured member, with
the fatal result above mentioned.

“Words are beautiful, but rifles, machine
guns, ships, airplanes and cannon are better.”—

Benito Mussolini.

The funniest advertisement we have noticed this
week is one of the International Correspondence

MUSINGS 9% “%e
-MATADOR

VEREEN
BELL

Old Jim was getting along in years and did not
realize it until he felt something pull in his back as
he was moving the piano. Nobody ever told him that
a cat had jumped up on his back, but he really was
getting old, so he decided to go see a doctor and be
worked over. The first thing the doctor did was to
give him a physical examination. The man liked to
have thrown him out of the office when he was weigh-
ing him, because he cheated by putting his hands in his
pockets. Imagine! Then he begany questioning him.

aay
—_

“Jim, when is the last time you were inoculated ?”
asked the medico with venom in his peepers

e ”
“When have you been vaccinated ?

“Oh, I see what you mean. I guess I was fascinated
pretty much at the Air Circus.”

“Listen, you are hopeless.”
“No, I’m Jim. Who are you?”

“T promised I wouldn't tell. Do you want to be
operated on or do you not?”

“Well, it would open up a. new line of thought,

wouldn't it?” said Jim eagerly.

And sew they rolled him into the room where they
prepare people for operations. Then they called the
ambulance to take him down to the hospital.: They
found, however, that the ambulance was out 6n a
call, so they sent the hearse around. A neat little
inscription was on the side of it, saying in a low
voice, “This is the buries.” They put Jim in this and
went down to the hospital. Then they wheeled him
to the operating room and he wasn’t a little stiff
from Wheeling either.

Then they gave him ether chloroform or something

else.

The doctor began to hack away and pull old shoes
and tin cans out of Jim. When he got through he

said: :
‘

“That will be about enough out of you.”

Now all this time Jim’s little boy afd his friend
were waiting outside the door to find) out whether
the operation was successful. }

“T’'ll bet you don’t know what the doctor does when
he finishes the operation on your father,” said the
little friend.

“No, I don't,”

“Sews your old man.”

Now in the days that ensued, Jim began to get
well rapidly. He found that his nurse was very beau-
tiful and decided that it would be very annoying for
him to get well and have to leave his pleasant haven.
One day the doctor came in and looked him over.
Jim was reading the paper. —

“Jim,” said the sawbones,
I'll let you go tomorrow.”

“Oh, don’t do anything rash now, doc.”

“Tt will be all right, I think. What does the weather
forecast say?”

Jim, grasping at this straw, said:

“Rain, hail, snow, thunderstorms and possible tidal
waves and cyclones.” He had decided that it’s a great
life if you weaken. Now don’t get the impression that
all hospitals are like this. And it may be said with a
good deal of accuracy that all nurses are not pretty.
One of the greatest needs of this country is a five-
cent box of cigars and another is universally pretty
nurses in hospitals. Of course, there are several atti-
tudes one can take about this. For instance, when you
ask the nurse where she has been all your life and she
answers, “Where I ought to be now,” there must be
some other more proper remedy to the situation. If
pretty nurses get in the habit of wise-cracking their
patients like that there will soon be fewer people in
the hospitals, which of course means that there is
less sickness, which means that people are being bet-
ter fed and clothed; all of which points to the fact
that the economic depression is at an end and that
we are managing to get along fir spite of Hoover’s
obvious efforts to starve us into submission. However,
the Republicans still have a chance in this big ‘issue.
Suppose the nurse is beautiful but dumb. You have
fallen out of your bed during a nightmare and you
call the nurse in for assistance. The nurse, seeing your
plight, takes this opportunity to try to burn you up,
thus: “You fell out because you slept too near where
you got in,” leaving you the chance to make her take
her own medicine (which is rarely done in hospitals
even though they get it wholesale), by saying, “It
wasn’t, either; it was because I slept too near where
I fell out.” When people can do this there will be
more patients in the hospitals, more money paid’ out
in doctor bills, thus more money in circulation and
more prosperity, and the Democrats won't have any
more chance of realizing their objective than did the
former German Emperor, Geyser Bill.

said Jim's little son.

“if the weather permits

Schools, showing a halfback dashing headlong
through a broken field. We dil not know until
then that the I. C. S. boasts a football team—per-
haps they don't. But if they do, we admire their
stand in coming out openly and advertising for
bigger and better athletes, instead of taking more
round-about methods in getting them.
