THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 2, 1930

Che Dabidsontan

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year, Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

WILSON McCUTCHAN...--.-....-.------- Editor-in-Chief
. A. CANNON .........2.--1.--..--.--.-.-Business Manager
=

EDITORIAL STAFF :

E. C. DWELLE, JR.---.----- Editor
W. S. LEA. we -Managing Editor
D. G. 3 Managing Editor
W. H. Sports Editor
Vv. M. ature Editor
NORMAN RA iture Editor
A, R. JACKSON z view Editor
P.R. DICMAN cukasesnisdapscecsecceesc Sua Associate Editor
J. B ; _Associate Editor

W. C. ....-Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

Pr, M. CONWAY....------------Assistant Business Manager
A, J. BAKER i tant Business Manager
J. STE sistant Business Manager
A, Subscription Manager
Py ee Solicitor
R. olicitor
A. olicitor
A. L. MEBANE ---------Solicitor
W. R. MORROW. _...---Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
S, WILEY....... eau eis 3 __-President

i GoiSPPPHENSON to s.s5sc2 ccc ccccuSs _.-Vice- President
. H. WHITEHEAD bsues uecuunee Secretary-Treasurer
R. H. ALDERMAN M. BROWN :
J. G. BERRY 7 KEK. BAILEY

A. R. BOYD

N, Ry DICKS

J

(
BIRD Jk.

J. G. DUNKLIN

Ww. T

E, O. GUERRANT Vv. T. HANCOCK
J. E. LAKE R. L. McCALLIE
J. C. MATTHEWS Cc. F. MYERS
W. oF. MULLISS H. F. NICHOLS
G. P. PARDINGTON S. P. PRESTON -
C. W. F. SPENCER Bh. B. SUGG

B, B. TAYLOR W. B. WARD

J. R. SMITH D. D. McBRYDE

OCTOBER 2, 1930

“There's no expedient to which a man will
not go to avoid the labor of thinking.”

Thomas A. Edison.

SUGGESTIONS

Fast driving back of the dormitories proves un-
pleasant for occupants of the basement rooms in
East and West. It is not very agreeable to wake
up in the morning with “a dust in one’s eye.”

Some people regret that Walter Johnson won't
oppose his old battery mate, Gabby Street, in the
World’s Series this fall.

Students are to be congratulated on the support
they gave the team in Greensboro. Incidentally,
the team was worthy of all the backing it could
get.

Literary enthusiasts are reminded when they go
to underline masterpieces in library books that
somebody else may want to read the book some
time.

Sophomores needn’t have felt about the poem,
which appeared last week, as they did. It has
been printed in The Davidsonian before.

Emurian and Hunter have been given good music
the morning chapel services. Most of their selec-
tions are better known classical numbers.

A GREATER LIBRARY

Hearts of faculty members, and students
should rejoice upon announcement of the
Carnegie appropriation to the College Li-
brary. From every point of view there can
be nothing but satisfaction expressed.

Not only will this have a decided effect on
the reading of the undergraduate, but it
should also encourage graduate study. The
seeker of a Master’s degree, especially in
languages, has been somewhat hampered by
lack of suitable research material. Because
Davidson is primarily an undergraduate in-
stitution, it is fitting that the majority of the
books should be peculiarly applicable to the
use of men taking curricular courses. How-
ever, we believe it proper that the candidate
for an advanced degree should receive more
attention in regard to his reading matter.

It is also'expected that some of the more
rarely. used volumes will find their way to
the shelves. At the vast Harvard library a
book is considered to pay for itself if it is
used once in three years. This could not be
held as a profitable investment here, but it
will be impossible to spend twenty-five
thousand dollars for books, perodicals, and
paper, all in the space of five years, without
purchasing literature hitherto untouched by
under graduates.

Altogether, it is a valuable and profitable
donation. It will do much toward restoring
the losses suffered when Old Chambers
suildng burned. A new era looms for literary
research and study. Davidson has just cause
to be grateful to Andrew Carnegie, as well
‘as James Buchanan Duke.

FOOTBALL UNDER FLOOD LIGHTS

The opinions regarding night football that
have been current since Davidson’s debut
under the arcs have been varied as to rela-
tive advantages and disadvantages of that
mode of playing America’s great fall sport.
The State game provided a fair test in
every respect, and we do not think that it is

| all it is said to be.

From the player’s standpoint, there are
doubtless some affirmative arguments, chief
of which is that they do not become nearly
so tired as in the daytime. But even at that,
the most that any of the Davidson players
would say is that they “would just as soon”
play at night. None seem completely sold
mm the idea,

From the spectator’s viewpoint, we think
the night. game is a failure. It was next to
impossible to recognize one player from an-
other even in the small Greensboro bowl.
We do not think it could be done in a larger
stadium, Unless one was thoroughly fa-
milar with each man, it would be difficult to
follow the play.

A new slant on the subject was provided
by the noticeable lack of color at night,
compared to that for which daytime col-
legiate football spectacles are noted, The
Carolina authorities brought this fact into
the open when they decided not to equip the
Kenan stadium with lights. They contend
that “the cold white light of the arcs can-
not compare with Autumn afternoon, crisp
winds blowing through russet leaves, and
the beanting face of Old Sol shining down
on a cheering crowd of humanity.” It may
sound like a description of a Thanksgiving
game taken from a collegiate novel, but it
is that very thing which will keep night
football from becoming the-rule instead of
the exception.

We do not doubt that teams will continue
to play football after dark, but we think
that it will be limited to September and
early October games when it will possibly
be more comfortable than playing in the
afternoon. Some of the smaller: colleges
which need the increased gate receipts will
also continue to play at night to avoid the
competition of the major teams, but for the
important championship contest, we believe
the chief reliance will be on sunlight.

W. Matthews.

WITH CHARITY TOWARD ALL

Davidson athletic teams have become re-
nowned for their fighting blood and_ fair
play. Doubtless they have done as much as
any other activity toward collegiate pub-
licity and reputation. Yet, there is another
influence which appeals to the observer.
Conduct of students; The business negotia-
tions and ethics of alumni play their part,
but it is the demeanor of the supposedly
“care-free, college boy” that counts. ?

It should not be necessary to remind the
reader that the majority of students are not
boys, nor are the most of them care-free.
To many men college is the first really
serious thing that has confronted them. The
fact that they occasionally give way to their
emotions while “rooting” at a game does
not disprove this assertion. However, be-
cause they try to make the best of life,
many people are prone to brand them as
thoughtless, inconsiderate, and reckless.
This has not been the general case with
Davidson men.

There are two phases of college life by
which the public casts its verdict. One is
found when the student is away from the
campus, or “out in company.” It is not our
intent to insult the readers of ths comment
by telling them their duties as guests. In
the first place these obligations are already
evident, and secondly they are fundamental-
ly simple. Politeness, appreciation, and tact
furnish a fundamental background. It is
easy to be entertained.

Entertaining is something entirely differ-
ent. In social life there is no position more
exacting than that of host or hostess. In-
stead of following an example, the individ-
ual must set one. Furthermore, it must be
one whch can be easily and agreeably fol-
lowed. “People’s teeth must not be set on
edge by the eating of sour grapes.” Hos-
pitality is offered rather than accepted.

Within a short period of time two organi-
gations convene at Davidson College. One of
them is the Language Institute. The per-
sonnel. of this group is a particularly ob-
servant one. Many. of its members are edu-
cators, people that know’ institutional life.
They are experts and will not be fooled by
appearances; they can separate the good
from the bad.

It is an opportunity for Dayidson to make
a good impression. Many men will enroll for
graduate work in the schools which will be
represented. When people are amgng strang-
ers and are in a new place they are readily
susceptible to kindness and ordinary cour-

The remarkable rennaissance of our literary so-
cieties this year has been very noticeable. Both
the Eumanean and Philanthropic societies have
had increases in attendance, and their programs,
characterized by the presence of different faculty
members, have been extremely interesting.

Established in 1837, the same year of the found-
ing of the college, they have become institutions
within themselves. Their growth has been com-
pared to that of Davidson, since many of their
activities and parallel efforts were co-operative en-
enterprises. For almost one. hundred years, Phi
and Eu halls, were scenes of many brilliant events;
debates, orations and other declamatory contests,
the members of the former usually being North
Carolinians, and the latter, those students from
other states. It is said that Woodrow Wilson made
his first speech in Eu hall, and many other prom-
inent men, both in state matters,
made their first public appearances in these minia-
ture edifices.

and business

Rumors to the effect that the organizations
have declined are literally unfounded. Their
memberships, of’ course, had decreased con-
siderably with the introduction of the numer-
ous other extra-curricular attractions, and at
times, even the programs were not as inviting
as they should have been. So that in speaking
of the emphatic revival, we refer only to this
phase which is the single defect. Their unusual
quality of work has been only temporarily
stunned. Moreover, they are real literary so-
cieties now. Instead of functioning as a social
group, helping in entértaining guests during
college festivities, and assisting in other un-
literary events, which they did in past years,
the societies now confine their time specifically
to educational and cultural themes.

Many are hesitant with their affiliation, because
they invariably have a false impression that the
weekly routine of the societies is dull and unin-
teresting. Not only is this unwarranted but the
fact is exactly vice versa, since the humorous ele-
ment inevitably appears at every meeting, espe-
cially if Jack Matthews, Al Jackson or John Pres-
ton are present. The day of the long, boring
and uninviting programs is gone, The
meetings rarely extend over a one-hour period,
and individual deliveries are usually brief.

speech,

Professor Currie, in a speech before the two
organizations last year, recalled dramatically to
his listeners, the time when the supremacy of
the two societies was never doubted. His vivid
explanations of their diligence, especially the
competition that existed between the two, was
an appeal that proved to be the initial impetus
which is reviving the two traditional groups.
Public speaking is not included in the college

curriculum. The candidates for the debating
teams have no organized manner whereby they can

‘demonstrate their ability before audiences, prior

to intercollegiate engagements. This is a day in
which every man must eventually appedr for at

| least a brief address. Joining a literary Society is

undoubtedly the most logical medium for) express-
ing -oratorieal talents, learning to speak, and ac-
quiring more knowledge of parliamentary law, and
current affairs.

Bill Carter’s reputation as a poet is attracting
wide attention. Bill’s poetry appears intermit-
tently in .several newspapers throughout the
state, especially in the Charlotte Observer.
Anne Windsor, who is writing a book, “Poets
of North Carolina,” to be published this winter,
invited the Davidson youth to contribute a
whole page of his work. He has compiled all
his poetry into a booklet, and plans in the near
future, to publish them in volume form.

Bill does not “grind” his stuff out, but acts
only upon immediate inspiration, and is partial-
ly influenced in style by his favorite poets, Ten-
nyson and Poe. Incidentally, he has an auto-
graphic collection of famous writers, which
includes the signatures of Edgar Rice Bor-
roughs, O. O McIntyre, the late Edward Bok,
Zane Grey, Winston Churchill, Rex Beach, S.
S. Van Dyne, and many others.

tesy. A pleasant remark under such condi-
tions is magnified to a magnanimous act.
We do not advise students to be false in

their politeness ; we merely want them to be ~

natural, Because a visitor’s face is new and
his name unknown, no right s given to shun
him. Because one should not set his counte-
nance like a flint, we do not mean that he
should be mealy-mouthed with his face set
like a pudding. Not many people are fooled
by hypocrisy.

This appdal is not made for the benefit of
the feelings which the officers of admin-
istration may have upon the subject. Not for
the sake of school spirit do we advocate this
attention on the part of the students. It is a
good time to make a small investment wth
the promise of excellent dividends. It is a
hard, cold business propositon.

1

|
|

MUSINGS 9 *e
_,MATADOR_

EF, J
is VEREEN ~4,1_\-
Wee, BELL Ne C a

Well, Fend and Moety are on their way to Mars.
Last week we left them “up in the air,” so to speak.
3eep, beep!

FEND AND MOIETY
Chapter 2

Fend and Moiety have sighted Mars! They'll be
there before very long. They can tell it’s Mars by
its scars. We hope they don’t go wrong. Rah, rah, rah.

They began to come down for a landing. This was,
on the whole, a very good plan, because it is hard to
make a good landing without coming down:

They landed without mishap and jumped out to ,
begin their explorations.

Then they saw a man coming toward them from
the woods. Moiety wanted to run, but decided not to
when he found that Fend was standing on his foot.

The man advances with every indication of friend-
ship beaming from his tace.

“Howdy do, strangers,” he said. “I’m very sorry
to disappoint you, but we don’t need any books to-
day because there ain't but one member of our family
that can read and that's Oscil and he’s sick abed.”

“Oh, my dear sir, we are not selling books or even
brushes. I'm very sorry that Oscil is sick. Maybe it
was something Oscillate.”

“Oh, no tain’t that, ’cause Seegar said it wasn’t,
and he knows all about it.”

“Then maybe it was something Seegaret,” said
Moiety, laughly and gleely.

“No,” said the man, “the trouble with Oscil is that
he has the Higolican Flips, a disease well known to
us Marsonianites. You stay away from anybody that
has the Higolican Flips, you understand?”

“Oh, perfidy. We understand you just perfidy.”

“There are quite a few ways that have been pre-
scribed to cure Higolican Flips, but very few have
worked.

“Say, don’t you want to see this planet improved ?”
said Fend.

“Sure. When are you leaving?” retorted the stran-
ger, grinning from here to here.

“Well, where is Seegar?’” asked Moiety.

“He is at work on the highways.”

“Why don’t he leave his work and come out and
greet us?” continued Moiety.

“He can’t. They like the way he works so much that
they keep men watching him, with rifles! Say, I’ve
got a big yen to go with you on your trip back to
America.”

“How much is that in American money?” said Fend.

“Listen, I was going to tell you how to get rid of
the Higolican Flips.”

“Yes, so you were.”

“The first thing you do is skip rope.”

“Oh, no. Even if I died from the Higolican Flips
T couldn’t give up my cigars.”

“Say, let’s all go in and do a little eating,” said
Moiety.

“Moiety, how many times have I told you not to
end a sentence with a proposition?” reprimanded Fend
with ire in his eyes.

However they went into the nearest cafe and ordered
food. Fend got a great big steak that was so tough
he couldn’t eat it, so he called for the waiter.

“Waiter, I can’t eat this steak. Send for the man-
ager, right away.”

“It's no use, sir. The manager can’t eat it, either,”
answered the waiter and turned and walked sadly
away. SS

“Ah, he’s human after all. I always thought waiters
were sort of high hat, but this one is just plain folks
like me and youse.”

“Boy, howdy!” said the man from Mars. “These
scrambled x are-fine.” ee

“Oh that reminds me of my new Austin”down on
earth,” said Fend. : :

“What about your new Austin down on earth?”
said the man from Mars.

“Well, when I bought it, I started to write a check
for it and dropped a drop of ink all over it.”

So we leave these three, crying over the

fate of
the Austin, until next week. ‘

It is interesting to note the list of the 50 out-
standing women in America, chosen recently by
Miss Ida Tarbell, prominent writer, whose
choices are a so-called retaliation to former Am-
bassador Gerard's sensational assertion that 64
men in the United States ruled the country. Miss
Tarbell’s selections include Miss Martha Berry,
director of the Berry Schools in Georgia, an in-
stitution which has sent us many prominent stu-
dents, and which, at times, comes into intimate
contact with our administration. Miss Berry,
whose financial backer is Henry Ford, also won
a $5,000 prize in 1927, for her monumental work
in education. |

Ripley’s “Believe it or Not” cartoon, which

has, it is estimated, more than 50,000,000 read-
ers throughout the whole world, which de-
picted Thad Brock’s epochal run against
Duke University last fall with a large draw-
ing presumably illustrating the Davidson
gridiron flash in action, has caused nation-
wide comment. Not only has Thad received
many congratulatory messages, but David-
son men everywhere have written here, ex-
pressing their elation over the distinction.
