NS

THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 30, 1930

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
iegiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
anaging Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday:

ene V. LONG, Jr...

Editor-in-Chief
H. McCALL Busi

Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

. B LACK. Managing Editor
. W. McCUTCHAN. Managing Editor
f AGIN - eS Managing Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN. Athletic Editor
J. V. D. MIDDLETON________- WScawauseee Assignment Editor
J. F. PRESTON Feature Editor
Jj. L. BROWN . Feature Editor
R. F. JARRATT Associate Editor
F. D. MILLER A iate Editor
C. M. PRATT. A i Editor
BUSINESS STAFF

. A. CANNON. Asst. Bus. Mgr.
i Le BOY Disaiin assse -Subscription Mgr.
A. J. BAKER..... Solicitor
P. M. CONWAY eee Solicitor
VisHOMGKINNONSosgocce cass cue coasscena lc eaueLe gees Solicitor
+ O. MANN aes Solicitor
. E. RUFF. reat Solicitor
> I SEVIER es Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB

BS MHERWNER ii ccc csss es ee ie President
rer EG CuncepubuscucenUuendeaucssucsbiuue Vice-President
}: G bee DUR TON ieee ae Secretary-Treasurer
.G. RY ee DUNKLIDN
5 C. MATTHEWS . S. LEA

. G. MARTIN C. W. F. SPENCER
J. R. SMITH W. T. HANCOCK
Mn O. STEPHENSON JOHN M. BROWN
e i Dice G. P. PARDINGTON
Wrer nos MATTHEWS, W. H
Sib AR” WELLE, E. C.
==

JANUARY 30, 1930

THE VOICE OF THE CAMPUS

Here’s a brand new semester, men! What are
you going to do with it? Just one little suggestion
for you—tomorrow never gets here. Do it now.

Now that the trustees have approved the plan
for Davidson’s advent to the world of radio, we
hope the faculty too will decide it’s worthwhile.
That broadcasting from Chambers Auditorium

would be mighty fine. What a great advertisement
for the College.

Well, Charlotte “Y” showed the Wildcats a real
team in that clash Monday night. The big Cats
better “perk up” before Duke Blue Devils begin
to prowl around the gym.

How about more quiet in the dormitories this
season? Remembdr your neighbor may be a dis-

ciple of Morpheud and as such is entitled to his
treatment.

Watch developments over London way these
days, and you'll absorb some interesting knowl-

edge about this great game of diplomacy. It is
fascinating sport.

Spring football again and the familiar cry of
“Down—up—Dig!” Prospects look rosy. May they
stay that way. Soon we'll see Reds versus Blacks.

Wildcat grapplers didn’t turn in a very impress-
ive performance against the V. M. I. Cadets, but
they'll improve when the full squad is available,
and when exams are completely forgotten. Our

hand to Warren and Conway for their splendid
exhibitions. j

HISTORY AT LONDON

The spirit of the great parley is the prin-
cipal factor, and if that feeling of inter-
national goodwill can be maintained among
all the factions represented, the way will be
easier for material alteration in the arma-

A prominent English militarist advances
food for thought when he says that dis-
armament of navies and armies is only a
‘temporary remedy, since the war of. the air
will make war machines used thus far seem
useless and ineffective. He advocates steps
immediately: to curb the accumulation of
vast air navies which will exercise complete
control over military operations in future

AMONG THE MISSING

It is no new thing at Davdison, or at any
other college, for articles of clothing, per-
sonal effects, and books to be lost from the
rooms, As a matter of fact most students of
the upper classes remember when the miss-
ing goods began to include property left in
town houses. However, we do not think
that Davidson’s total of things unaccounted
for will exceed that of any other boarding
school, and considering the somewhat dis-
interested attitude of the student body in
general toward correcting the evil of re-

. moving roomers’ possesions, we feel that

the situation is handled as well here as can
be expected. Certainly the Student Council
is doing its utmost to uphold the duty laid
upon it,

Carelessness on the part of many boys as
they go about the campus may. be advanced
as one good reason why so many articles
are lost and their whereabouts unknown.
Men are prone to leave their slickers, books,
and sweaters lying in drug stores, class-
rooms or on the athletic field, and, to be
sure, these things, once relinquished, are not
easy to find again. A little more care could
be exercised in the handling of such proper-
ty, it seems to us. Maybe the proverbial
“string aroundthe finger” wouldn’t be such
a bad idea for some of the “young grown
old and absent-minded.”

Perhaps the greatest nuisance the stu-
dent has to endure, and one which inevitably
leads to trouble and expense, is this matter
of extensive “borrowing.” Fellows drop in-
to your room, pick up whatever they want,
and, with all good intentions, carry it off.
Probably you have to hunt all over the dor-
mitory before you find your belongings in
the haunts of your well-meaning friend.
Such a practice is not to be condemned too
severely, for some of it is understood by
both parties, and particiularly at Davidson,
where the student body is unusually con-
genial. This fact is true, but like anything
else, “borrowing” can go much too far. Why
not leave a note in the owner’s room, telling
him where to find his coat, his book, or
whatever you’ve taken? Common courtesy
and good fellowship would seem to demand
that, at least.

The presence of a predatory character at
Davidson cannot be denied, however, and
events of the past fall testify to the serious-
ness of his offenses against the honor. and
security of students here. In the hope that
robbery, finally like murder, “will out,” we
urge the men in the dormitories to exercise
the utmost caution in the care of their be-
longings, co-operating to that extent in
the effort to put an end t.othe unwarranted
departure of so much student property. The
quaint old custom of locking doors might be
considered among other remedies as one
offering possibilities,

VALUES IN OBJECTIVES

The man who has entered college with no
idea of what his life’s work will be is labor-
ing under severe handicaps. He will most
certainly travel many useless routes. And
yet all journeys are useful if carried out
with a spirit and a will, but the man who
doesn’t know where he is going cannot ac-
complish nearly so much along the route
as he whose objective is well established.
He has no incentive to stir up a strong will
and a high spirit. If one has some goal to-
ward which to strive, even though it be not
quite the correct one, one is likely to ac-
complish much more than he who wanders
aimlessly by the wayside.

The vocational guidance idea arose out
of the utility, and even the necessity, of
early determining upon some definite end.
Soon the Vocational Guidance Institute of
Davidson, sponsored by the “Y”, will give
each man who has not decided upon his life
work an opportunity and an incentive to
think about his future vocation. It will also
offer an excellent opportunity for men to
test their previous choices of fields of en-
deavor.

An ill approach to the process of getting
an education can cause more “blue” hours
than practically any other activity or in-
activity. All students now and then) find
themselves questioning the utility of learn-
ing a list of dates, many of which they will
never see again; every student has inwardly
felt, and more often outwardly expressed,
his feeling that certain assignments were
purely non-sensical and nothing short of
laborious routine.

years. In the light of wide-spread sentiment
of this nature, one wonders if any real

change in war strength will be effected by.

conferences such as the one now in‘session
at London. Of course, promotion of goodwill
is not to/be under estimated, for this: may

‘be the means of satisfactory negotiations

in the years to come.

All such reactions as.

IW. M&GUTCHA

WE ie)
LIS!
4 pub ~~

: 2w.c. RAGIN

Local would-be aviators and admirers of air-

craft were greatly edified by the non-stop visit of .

the Los Angeles, last Sunday. Certain doubters
shook their heads and remarked on the evident
speed and size of the huge ship. Few, in estimating
its bulk, semed to realize that the altitude was
considerable. When it is recalled, roughly speak-
ing, that it is equal to, approximately, twice the
combined lengths of Watts, East, and West, itis
easy to understand why two hundred men must be
trained to assist the Navy’s “aerial flagship” in
landing. In connection with the ease and rapidity
of air travel, this column submits the following:
that a number of small stationary “sausages” be
anchored some thousands of feet above the school
from which students may “holler,” while gesti-
culating with their thumbs, “New York”; “Liver-
pool”; “Baluchistan”; or even “Singapore”!

And “Singapore” reminds us that we saw a
movie the other night that contained no ref-
erence to “Singapore Sal,” the “Shanghaid
Crew,” or the trial of “Dary Mugan.” True
lovers of the cinema, it is the only theatre
many of us have, have been sickened by the
multiplicity with which producers continué to
flood the screen with pictures, some worse and
some “worser,” of the same uniform type. The
above-mentioned styles were taken, merely as
examples. The first of the lot is generally good,
but it is followed by a multitude of hybrids,
few of which can give pleasure or do credit to
any one.

9Admirers of Real-Admiral Richard Evelyn
Byrd have been alarmed by the recent report that
his expedition is in dire straits due to the un-
expected severity of weather. The Federal Gov-
ernment, as usual, has taken the matter into hands
more or less capable, and, if some important
change in temperature does not result, an investi-
gating committee will probably be appointed. Will
Rogers may have started it, but an investigating
committee of the committee would not be out of
place. Seriously, this column maintains that there
is no serious cause for alarm. Byrd has proved
his worth as an explorer, and it is surmised that
the members of the party would be .cared for,
even at the expiration of canned heat and fuel.

Law cannot be enforced until members of
judicial and legislative bodies comply with the
statute in question. John W. Brady, former
member of the Texas court of appeals, is on
trial for his life. He is charged with the shoot-
ing and death of his stenographer, and his
only possible loop-hole appears to be that he
was intoxicated at the time. In ancient days,
a host often had to eat a portion of his own
food to prove that it was not poisoned. In °
other words, the administrator had to prove
that he himself could stand the food (or rules)
that he offered. The modern exception, evi-
dently, is the bootlegger.

Will Rogers, referred to above, finds many terse
comments which he can make about the naval
limitations conference now in progress, in London.
Rogers must not be taken too seriously, but many
of his jokes are too true to be humorous. This
column doubts the actual benefit to be gained by
such a diplomatic meeting. It is encouraging to
have the nations of the world interested in the

, ————————— — eeeeeeeeeeeEEO——
———

these come down from a lack of objective.
They mean that the student is going to col-
lege for no purpose, or that he has signed

up for a course which he has no reason to
take. ' ;

An ultimate objective for one’s life can
furnish much of the fuel‘along the way, as
well as acting as a guide post at every cross
road.

But there is still another thing to be con-
sidered. Even he who has definitely deter-
mined upon his line of endeavor is frequent-
ly discouraged by its remoteness from his
present studies.

That is the reason that novels are divided
into chapters. The chapter headings. prove
to be ends which are not too remote to
obtaih in a short time. Just so we should
divide our lives up into shorter periods, with
minor objectives. These objectives may be
a letter in track, the honor roll for this sem-
ester, the debating team, the Reporters’
Club. These things are worth while because
they are milesstones along the route. But
there is a danger that these milestones be

“interpreted as parking signs. Too many fail-

ures have resulted in lolling in the shadow
of past achievement. Milestones: ahead are

‘the ones to center the attention on, not

those~behind.
ae F: D.. MILLER.

Well, everybody is more or less whipped down
from exams, so I’ll have to write a real simple
plot to give everyone a rest. It’s a pity that every~
body won’t get this rest. It’s rather difficult to
think of a simple plot.- My mother has a garden
with one tulip growing right in the center. That’s
a simple plot. I’m off.

SAND

You may be a whole desert to some people, but
you're an eyesore to me.

Time: Dawn. Scene: A few pyramids and
sphinxes scattered at random just for a back-
ground. Also some palm trees scattered at will.
And then sand, the limitless, dazzling, eternal
wastes of sand. Sand, the hot, parching, arid
plague—gee, I’ll be in the Chameleon yet—if it
ever comes out.

Just at the break of dawn, who should come
riding, riding on camel-back but Mustapha Napple,
the shiek, and Few El Kann, his right hand man.
They dismountedand tied their camels, so that they
wouldn’t have to walk a mile for > They then
fastened a stick of dynamite to each camel, so
that if they did run away—oh, you know that old
maxim “Blow some my way.” It’s a punk stick of
dynamite that doesn’t blow somebody good. Then,
they spread their prayer-rugs, faced Mecca, and
took their bows. At this moment, a rooster crowed
as a- hint the dawn was breaking. “Say, Few
El,” began the good shiek, “do you know why
hens lay eggs only in the daytime?” “Why no,”
asserted the right hand man, “Because they’re all
roosters at night,” quoth the shiek. This was the
proverbial straw that broke the camel’s back,
and both of the steeds went down in a heap.

Our two Arabian friends now girded their bur-
nooses about them and began to prepare break-
fast. While they were eating their beans, the
worthy shiek again quoth, “Gee, I wish I hadn't
fired my cook, but he was too religious.” “What
has religion got to do with cooking?” puzzled Few
El.who was in a quandary (not a marble quan-
dary). “Well,” replied Mustapha, helping his righ
hand man out of the quandary, “every meal was
either a sacrifice or a burnt offering.”

The boys now began to cast about for a little
entertainment. “Let’s play bridge,” suggested Few
El. “No,” vetoed the shiek, “you play cornet
bridge. I lead an ace and you trumpet.” Few El
pulled out his rusty saxophone and began to
play an old native air. Mustapha immediately
raised a window. “I guess you know that I’ve taken
up singing,” volunteered the right hand man, lay-
ing down his sax. “That's going from bad to voice,”
sneered the shiek.

The two camel herders at last began to talk
about old times. “You know, I’ve been working on
a hunch for a long time,” remarked Few El, show-
ing the hunch to the shiek. “Dog-gone, that’s fine,”
said the shiek, “you'll be a regular Lon Chaney
yet unless hunchbacks go out of style.” And so the
conversation flourished. “If you mention women,
I'll knock your block off,’ ’threatened the shiek.
Well, after he’d knocked his block. off—but that’s
another story. “I call my girl pedestrian,” ad-
mitted Few El, “because everybody runs her
down.” “My son,” cautioned the old shiek, “re-
member the adage ‘Never go around with another
man’s wife unless you can go two rounds with her
husband.’ ”

Really, gentle reader, I haven’t got the slightest
idea how to get my two characters off of the
desert, so I'll just leave them’on it and thus end
my story. My, my, is there no end to this man’s
genius?” &S

promulgation of peace. Treaties, ratios, and scrap-
pings interest the statistician. Midst doubtful
hopes, therefore, we point to the sacred “scraps
of paper” which were broken during the late
Great War, and also we would mention the fact
that various types of shells and gases used in this
conflict had been outlawed by nations participating.
Peace can never exist as long as an economic im-
perialism, as advocated by a major political party,
dominates and seeks to control backward people
who are destined to become educated.

It will be surprising to many readers to know
that this column is written with a purpose. At
one time it was the intention of the writer to
put forth, in brief form, the more strange and
unusual current events. After reconsideration,
and a glance at Ripley’s “Believe It Or Not”

. (which we “didn’t” entirely) it was thought
best to refer to the more commonly read news,
most of it appearing on the front pages of the
daily newspapers. Written comment on the
bizarre and unique means little if the reader
knows nothing at all about the event itself.
The writer’s purpose is, then, to arouse specu-
lation and opinion, not incredulity. It is peculiar
that things rarely appear in the same light
twice if. they are seriously considered more
than ‘once, | ; :
