6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 18, 1930

Several Changes Made
In Method of Applying |
For Rhodes Scholarship

States Divided Into Districts With.
Each Containing Six States

TOTAL NUMBER SAME
Appointments Will Be for Two
Years Unless Scholar is Desirous |
of Continuing Work

Word has just been received from the
American Secretary of the Rhodes Schol-
arships that all applications for appointment
must be in the hands of the various state |
secretaries before October 18. This means
that each college must name its candidates
several days before that time.

In the past, thirty-two men have been
appointed every year from as many states,
in such a way that two appointments were
made for each state every three years,

This year, for the first time, a new plan
,g0es into effect. The 48 states will be di-
vided into eight districts of six states each.
The third district consists of Virginia, North
and South Carolina, Georgia, Florida and
Tennessee. In each of these states there will,
as before, be a state committee, before which
will appear men appointed by their various
colleges as candidates. But instead of select-
ing one Rhodes scholar, the state commit-
tee will in each case select two, who will
‘appear before a district or régional commit-
tee, Of the twelve thus named, four Rhodes |
scholars wifl be selected to represent the
district of six states. As there are eight dis-
tricts, the total number any one year will
be the same as under the old plan, 32, but)
with the difference that they will represent
districts rather than states, and that all four
men in a district might be from two states, |
while there might be no appointees from
the other four states.

From now on appointments will be for two
years instead of three, but scholars who|
wish to stay a third year will in most cases |
be allowed to do so. A further and some-|
what radical change is as follows: “Begin- |
ning in 1930 Rhodes scholars may be allowed |
to postpone their third year, returning to |
Oxford for it after a period of work in their
own countries, or may spend their third year
in post-graduate work at any university of
Great Britain, and in special cases at any |
university on the Continent of Europe, the
overseas Dominions or in the United States,
other than the country of their origin, on
conditions approved by their own college
(at Oxford) and by the Rhodes trustees,”
Some of these changes are so radical that
an act of Parliament was necessary to change |
the conditions of the will of Cecil Rhodes. |
But they were deemed wise by the Rhodes |

trustees, and by those who administer the |
scholarships in the United States and the |
British Dominions. |

The Rhodes Scholarship is the greatest |
academic prize generally open to undergrad- |
uates in the United States. The stipend is |
400 pounds (nearly $2,000) a year. The WE
didates this year must have been bori'be- |

|

tween October 1, 1906, and October 1, 1912, |
and must have completed at least two years |
of college work in America. They may ap-
pear as candidates in the state of their legal
domicile or in the state in which they at- |
tend college. A Davidson man from North |
Carolina may appear only in North Caro- |
Ina, but a Davidson man from any other’
state may offer himself in the state of his |
resdence, but in any case only with the en-
dorsement of the college. Of the five David- |
son men who have been appointed as Rhodes |
scholars in the past, two were from North |
Carolina, two from South Carolina and one |
from Arkansas.

Prof. G. R. Vowles is the “institutional |
representative” of the Rhodes Scholarships |
at Davidson. All students interested, partic- |
ularly Seniors, are urged to consult Dr. |
Vowles at as early a date as possible. He |
will be glad to furnish application blanks and |
give information.

Students of geology classes have plenty of |
food for thought in two rather recent oc-
currences. A civil engineer in Cabarrus
County, North Carolina, found rock forma-
tions which he took to be the lava from an
extinct volcano. Following close upon this
unofficial discovery came the news that
Stromboli is in violent eruption. Displayed
to hundreds of Mediterranean tourists as
the model of dormant quiescence it suddenly
exploded and poured a fiery death toward
the peaceful villages lying on its slopes.

More people were omitted than included
in the recent list which named the men who
actually controlled the affairs of the world.
President, who was omitted, has an abund-
ance of passengers in the same boat with

, overseas Cap.

him.

heh abe x

CADET OFFICERS CHOSEN
(Continued from page 1)

Harris, B. H.—Personnel Adjutant.

Russell, R. D—Command Band.
Cadet First Lieutenants

Jackson, A. R.—Company ‘B.”

Sisson, C. A.—Company “C.”

Brock, J. L.—Company “A.”

Thompson, FE. F.—Company “D.”

McCutchan, J. W.—Company “A.”

Wilson, R. G.—Company “B.”

Hall, R. S.—Company “C.”

Drake, B. M.- Company “AD )

Hall, J. 1.—Band.

Cadet Second Lieutenants
Kuykendall, C. W.--Company
Sugg, W. G.—Company “B.Y
Lowrance, B. R.—Company “C.”
Kraemér, C. E.—Company “A.”

Bost, H. F.—Unassigned.

Severance, J. 1.—Unassigned.

Chamness, F. i.—Unassigned.

Cadet lirst’ Sergeants
King, D. S.—Company “C.”

Conway, P. M.—Company “D.”

White, S. A.—Company “A.”

Raker, |. S.—Company “B.”

Orr, R. B.—Band.

Non-Commissioned Officers

Cadet. Sergeant-Major
Wiley, S. S.—Battalion Commander Staff.

Cadet Sergeantsa .
Martin, D. G.—Company “B.”
McKinnon, J. H.—Company “A.”
Enloe, R. P.—Company “D.”

W. S.—Company “C.”
Graham, A. J.—Company “A.”
McConnell, J. D.—Company “B.”
Harrs, H. H—Company “C.”
St. Clar, A. A—Company ‘“D.”
Robinson, E. B.—Band.
Brohard, M. L.—Company “'C,
MacQueen, D, M.—Company “B.”
Montgomery, A. G.—Company “A.”
Washam, J. N.—Company ““C.”

Carr, H. L.—Company .“‘D.”

Wilson, H. M.—Company “A.”

Calder, D. G.—Company “B.”

Cashion, W. W.—Company “B.”

Morton, R. K.—Company “A.”

Mann, J. O.—Company “D.”

Harrison, C. W.—Company “C.”

Knox, P. G-—Company “A.”

West, F. H.—Company “D.”

Of more importance to the Re O. T. C.
students, the uniforms have been’ changed.
Instead of the short pants with the wrapped
leggings, there are long pants which will
probably be much more comfortable than
those of last year. Besides this, the officer's
hat is replaced by the more comfortable
The coat this year will be worn
with the lapel; on the lapel there is a blue
cloth so as to make the uniform look a
great deal better. The rifles have not_ been
issued as yet, but will probably be Gs8ued
within the next two or three weeks. Before
the rifles are issued the Freshmen will be

ap)

Lea,

”

taught how to march and face; this dutv

will fall on the commissioned officers, the
non-commissioned officers, and the corporals.
The formations this year will be back of
East Dormitory and in front of the laundry
instead of on the road in front of the gym

jas last year. Parades will again be on the

Freshman football. field.
At the lecture last Friday, Colonel Scott

announced that the battalion would have to
}march on Home-Coming Day but the stu-
{dents would have a choice of.one day in the

year for “né drill.” Last year the battalion

paraded on Home-Coming Day and it made
|a very good impression on the people who
|came to Davidson for the celebration.

The battalion looks very good now and
it is hoped by everyone that Davidson will
again have a banner year, as she had has
bad in the past years.

Professor Vowles’ |
Book |
The publishers of Prof. G. R. Vowles’
annotated edition of Ibsen’s “Terje Viken’” |
have announced that a second edition of that |
text book is going to press this month. It
is used in colleges and high schools of the
west, in which Norwegian is one of the
modern languages in the curriculum.

Five Changes Made
In Davidson Faculty

Davidson College opened ths term with
the fewest changes in the faculty that it has
known in several years. One professor re-
turns from a leave of absence; there are
two new instructors and two new assistant
instructors. ee

Dr. Price H. Gwynn will occupy the chair
of Education formerly occupied by the late
Dr. L. B. Henderson. Dr. Gwynn received
his A.B. and his M.A. at the University
of North Carolina and recently he received
his Ph.D. at the Department of Education
of Yale University. Dr. Gwynn also spent
two years at Union Theological Seminary.
For ten years Dr. Gwynn was teacher, prin-

,| cipal, and superintendent in the North Caro-

lina public schools. His home is in Reids-
ville.

Capt. I. M. Cochran, the new military.
instructor, will replace Captain Elkins, who
has been military instructor at Davidson for
the last five years. Captain Elkins. has been
stationed in Hawaii. Captain Cochran comes
Davidson from the Philippine Tslands
Where he has been stationed for the past
few years. He is a graduate of the School
of Infantry at Fort Betnning, Ga. Captain

to

Cochran's home is in Greenville, S.C.

Prof, IF’. L. Blythe, who has been oncleave
of absence for the past year, has returned |
from Spain he has been studying.
Since return to America,
Blythe has been studying at Middlebury Col-
lege in Vermont, and he will soon be the |
recipient of a Ph.D. degree in Romance Lan-
guages. Prof. W.R. Weaver, who. substi-
tuted for Professor Blythe last year, is at}

where

his Professor

Hampden-Sidney where he is the acting
head of the Spanish Department.

Frank Brown, of Greensboro, has been
made. assistant instructor in Biology and

I. Linwood Lafferty has been made assist-
aut in chemistry. Both of these men are
graduates of last year's Senior Class.

Literary Societies

Hold First Meeting

For the second time this year, the Philan-
thropic and) Eumanean Literary
will meet in their resepcetive halls Tuesday
night at 7:15.

Societies

The of the two societies fol-

low:

programs

PhitanthropicDebate: Resolved that the
chain store is,a menace to the prosperity
of our country.

Affirmative, A. B. McClure and Jack
Mann. Negative, Lon Carr and Henry
Nichol. :

Eumanean Current Events, Charles
Moore. Debate: .Resolved that the chain
store “is a menace to the prosperity of our
country.

Affirmative, J. W. Fulton and Jim Ward. |
Negative, Billy Ward and Jack Matthews. |

Davidson Theatre

Monday and Tuesday, September 22 and 23
“Anybody’s War”

With
MORAN and MACK
The Two Black Crows
Wednesday, September 24

“The Sea God”
With
RICHARD ARLEN
Thursday, September 25

“Let’s Go Native”
With
JACK OAKIE
Friday, September 26
“Queen High”
With
GINGER RODGERS
Saturday, September 27

“Men of the North”

IF reshmen Pep Meeting

Held in Shearer Friday

New Men Vote Unanimously to Put
Up Bleachers

Old Shearer resounded with the shouts
from two hundred hew throats once again
last Friday night when the Freshmen held
their first pep meeting, The yells were fa-
miliar and the songs seemed old to these
new men who are just now beginning to
catch the spirit of Davidson. It was a suc-
cessful meeting but much practice is needed,
according to George McClenaghan, varsity
cheer leader, who urges all Freshmen to
familiarize themselves with the yells and
songs even to a greatest extent. Flake Laird
was also present at this meeting and talked
briefly, after which the matter of erecting
the bleachers was taken up and passed unani-
mously.

In addition to this first meeting, two more
were held Tuesday and Thursday for Fresh-
men, The Freshmen seem to be progressing
fairly rapidly in learning the yells and
songs. “They must become conscious of the
fact,” MeClenaghan says, “that they will
bear the brunt of the cheering section.”

The first student body pep meeting will
be held tomorrow night, at which time a
few new yells will be introduced to the stu-
dent body. In connection with this, McClen-
agharurges that all boys living at a distance
from Davidson who know of good yells to
hand them in to him. These will be revised
and tried out.

A great number of men are trying out
for cheer leader this year, including four-
teen Juniors, which list must be dwindletl
down to two after the Elon game, and seven
Sophomores. A call will be made for Eresh-
men shortly after the Elon game. Their duty
during this football season will be ushering
at games. The list of cheer leaders follows:
Varsity cheer leader, George McClenaghan ;
Juniors, Tom Carr, Bob Davis, Ed Gorham,
John Hughes, Ed Kuykendall, Henry Mc-
Kinnon, Ben Mosely, Riley Powell, Nor-
man ‘Raies, McKoy Southerland, Alex St.
Clair, Bob Torrence, John Welch, and Sam
Wiley; Sopohomores, Bob Alderman, Tom
Bowles, Joe Bryant, Bill Hayes, John Lake,
Charlie Myers, and Bruce Sugg.

“Why does the woman take the name
of the man when she mafries ?”

“Well, she takes everything else, so she
might as well take that too.”

“How do along with

wife 2”

you get your

“I wonder sometimes, myself.”

Smith: “I lost my identity for two whole
weeks last summer.
“How did it happen?”
Smith: “Spent my vacation among my
was simply. known

Jones:

wife's reatives, and
as Anna’s husband.”

Professors Study
In Summer Months

With only a few exceptions, the members
of the Davidson faculty either spent the
past summer teaching in summer schools
during the three months’ vacation, studying
in various institutions in the United States,
or travelling in foreign countries.

Among. those travelling outside the States
this summer were Prof. K. J. Foreman, who
spent most of his time in Palestine and
Southern Europe; Dr. Geo. B. Watts, who
conducted a tour, and Professors W..L.
Porter, W. P. Cumming, and J. T. Trues-
dale, all’ of whom made tours of Europe.

Dr. Frazer Hood taught at Ohio State
during the second session, and Dr, J. sé
Davis, Jr., at Teachers’ College, Johnston
Cty, Tenn. Those connected with the sum-
mer session at Davidson were Prof. F. K.
Fleagle, director; Dr. J. L. Douglas, Dr.

T. W. Jingle, Prof’ A. Currie, Dr. C. M.
Richards, Dr. J. M. Douglas, Dr. FE. F.
Shewmake, and Prof. E. J. Cullum = Dr.
C. K. Brown substituted from the 28th of

June till the close of the session for Prof,
A. Currie, who underwent a major opera-
tion in Charlotte at that time.

Prof. H. T. Lilly studied at the Harvard
University summer session, and Professor
Cullum was also at that institution for Six
weeks, after concluding his Work at David-
son, Prof. F. L. Blythe, after returning from
Spain, attended Middlebury College, Ver-
mont, for six weeks. Prof. A. V. Goldiere
attended Penn. State; Prof. E, A. Beaty,
Columbia University; Prof. W. N. Mebane,

at Cornell, and Professors H. F. Fulcher
and T. EK, Lothery, Jr. at the University.
Four Davidson leaders were connected

with Camp Carolina, Brevard, N. C. These

were J. M. McConnell, Prof. N. G. Pritech-
ett, Prof. J. P. Williams, and Coach Monk
Younger. Coaches Tilson and Laird were
at Camp Mitchell, Burnsville.

Three of the military officers were at
Camp McClellan, Ala. Lieut.-Col. W. R.

Scott, commandant, assisted by Captain Otto,
and Captain Elkins
started on furlough before sailing for Hono-
lulu, his new station.

Captain Blanton. has

NEW SECTION OF STADIUM

(Continued from page 1)
son's athletic facilities as good as those of
other schools. Up until 1926, the college was
forced to get along with the wooden bleach-
ers—which incidentally had and still have
their advantages, but now, in proportion to
its size, Davidson has ample athletic facili-
ties.

The original concrete stadium has the fol-
lowing inscription on a bronze plate near
the under-stadium entrance: Presented to
Alma Mater in Memory of Lunsford Rich-
ardson, 1854-1919. Class of 1875, In the Days
when Athletics were not.

By his sons

H. Smith Richardson—’06.
Lunsford Richardson—'14.

£3 z 1
When You’re Hungry
Let
Helper Help You
HELPER’S. RESTAURANT
Next Door to Telephone Office
ta bY
“DRUGS” “SODA”
Make Our Store Your Store
Students’ Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“PRESCRIPTIONS” “SUNDRIES”

a)

