THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 13, 1930

Senior Party Sets High Mark.
In Campus Social Activities

Girls tlre: ae for Entertain-
ment—Rapid Fire Program
Offered by Faculty

Many members of the Davidson college
faculty, their wives and others connected
with the institution, who ordinarily follow
dignified roles, discarded these last Satur-
day night to become school boys and school
girls of 50 years ago in order to present a
cross-section of the old-time one-room
schoolhouse, and delight over 100 members
of the senior class and their guests with a
play as a part of the annual entertainment
of the senior-faculty party.

They really. presented two different plays
to the appreciative audience, one depicting
“School Days—As They Were,” and the
second scene being “School Days—As They
Will Be,” the former being a caricature, and
the latter representing a “radio college,” with
a well known announcer and musical enter-
tainment interspersing the more serious dis-
courses:

Fictitious names of an outlandish nature,
which fitted the equally ludicrous and out-
landish costumes, were applied to the faculty
members. The schoolmaster was Prof. Archi-
bald Currie; the committee which came to
the school on a tour of inspection were
Uriah Honeysuckle, enacted by Dr. C. R.
Harding; Theophilus Tinker, played by
Prof. E. J. Erwin,:and Sandy Crackstone,
who was Dr. John L. Douglas. Visitors that
day were Mrs. Uriah Honeysuckle, a role
played by Miss Orrié Steele, who brought in
her three-year-old, son, Ezekiel Jedediah
(Buddy), who was Capt. John W. Elkins.
The “baby” was pulled into the room in a
miniature express wagon.

Practically every one of the students had
their opportunity to “show off” before the
committee. Tryphosia and Tryphena Honey-
suckle, played by Mrs. W. R. Grey and Mrs.
John A, Otto, recited a poem together; Carl
Dunderhead, who was Prof. Henry T. Lilly,
gave an elaborate intellectual discourse on
the cat; Patience Peterkin, Salvation Brad-
ford and Timothy Truck, enacted by Mrs.
A. B. Robson, Prof. S. C. Lyon and Dr.
G. R. Vowles, respectively, listened to the
famous George Washington story, and later
wrote their own version of what they had
heard. The audience was kept in an uproar.
Jonathan Pettibone, who was Prof. K. J.
Foreman, was the orator, and sneezed and
stuttered his way through the oration; Hes-
ter Jane Doolittle, lisped through a ditty,
and Philander Doolittle, enacted by Dr. Geo.
B. Watts, kept the attention of the several
hundred people by frequent trips to the “old
oaken bucket” with its old-time gourd.

The second part of the play represented a
modern radio college, Graham McNamee
being impersonated by Prof. F, K. Fleagle,
who was both announcer and entertainer.
The great musicians scheduled to entertain
members of the radio college was the David-
son orchestra. Amos ’n Andy, who Satur-
day night were Prof. J. T. Kimbrough and
Prof. James Truesdale, dressed as blackface
comedians, had<plenty of “wise cracks” to
feature “their dialogue. The closing was
“Aunt Sally,” impersonated by Mrs. Emily
Cullum, who told a few bedtime stories and
sang for the “children of the unseen audi-
ence.” ‘

At the conclusion of this program in the
main auditorium of Chambers building, the
faculty and their guests adjourned to the
banquet hall of the building, where the hosts,
still attired in their play costumes, served
the ‘seniors and their friends with a turkey
supper. The Davidson orchestra furnished
music for the occasion, various stunts by
individuals and groups were offered for en-
tertainment, and as a grand finale to the
evening’s pleasures, the entire crowd parti-
cipated in a grand march.

Out-of-town visitors included Miss Vir-
ginia Dillon, Atlanta, Ga. ; Miss Mary Louise
Paguese, Columbia College, S. C.; Miss
Carter Clark, Covington, Ky.; Miss Maude
Westcott, Charleston, S. C.; Miss Geraldine
Bryan, Coker college, S. C.; Miss Frances
Marshall, Rock Hill, S. C.; Miss Lillian
Van Wagner, New York City; Miss Mary
Engle, Kissimmee, Fla.; Miss Bunny West-
cott, Charleston, S. C.; Miss Elizabeth
Kirby, Spartanburg, S. C.; and Miss Serene
de Saussure, Greenville, S. C.

Converse students from Spartanburg, S.
C., were Misses Elizabeth Johnson, Helen
Shuler, La Verne Brown, Marion Burwell,
Emalie Howard and Mamie Hine LaRoque.

Visitors from North Carolina cities in-
cluded:

Charlotte—Misses Marjorie Bonitz, Mar-

tha Dulin, Dorothy Wooley, Eileen Brown, |,

Ellen Hawkins, Martha Gruver, Minna Cald-
well, Kate Caldwell, Catherine Brown, Sissy
‘Stokes, Elizabeth Ross, Jean Marion, and

Adeline Wooley.

Albemarle—Misses Juanita Huneycutt,
Isabelle Efird, and Vivian Austin.

Concord—Misses Alys Mae Fuller, Irene
Long, Mary Cannon and Orchard Lafferty.

Davidson—Misses Caroline Moffett, Nona
Elkins, Sophia Cathey, Lucy Martin Currie,
Fredrica Hallum, Susan Moffet, Madeline
Lyon, and Mary Agnes Gaffney.

Statesville— Misses Mary Neal Hobbs,
Barbara Byford, Mary Brandon, Jessie Mar-
tin, Margaret Christenbury, Rebecca Ritchie,
and Elizabeth Alexander.

Greensboro—Misses Ruth Ferree, Ruth
Abbott, Mary Lynch Phipps, Rose Good-
win and Louise Smith.

Salisbury—Misses Ludie Barefoot, Francis
Thompson, Edith Clark and Margaret Hud-
son,

Mooresville—Misses Alice Carr, Nancy
Howard and Margaret Davidson.

Others were Miss Louise Denning, Ben-
son; Miss Marie Benton, Hendersonville;
Miss Dorothy Wagg, Connelly Springs} Miss
Louise Puckett, Maiden; Miss Annie Sue
Holland, Trap Hill; Miss Blanche Briggs,
Lenoir-Rhyne; Miss Sue Jane Mauney,
Salem college; Miss Mary; Lee Lindsey,
Taylorsville; Miss Harriet Boyd, Waynes-
ville; Miss Mary Norris, Salem College, and
Miss Dorothy Wreen, Durham.

"DR. KIRK TO DELIVER |

(Continued from Page 1)

founder of the fund on “Unsettled Ques-
tions.” Dr. Robert L: Dabney gave the sec-
ond series on “The Atonement.” Dr. J. B.
Shearer gave the third on “Modern Mystic-
ism,” and the final series were delivered by
Dr. Walter W. Moore on “The Permanence
of the Christian Ideal.” None of these lec-
turers are living today.

SOPHOMORES ARE HOSTS

(Continued from page 1)
“Sally” songs were sung by the Kappa Delta
chorus of Queens College.

This was followed by several dance num-
bers given by Billy Franklin of the Sopho-
more class. Mr. Dan McConnell then sang
a number of humorous selections which were
enjoyed very much by everyone. Next the
Kappa Delta chorus gave a series of popu-
lar songs. Professors Truesdale and Kim-
brough then gave a very good imitation of
“Amos ’n Andy.” Following this the party
was entertained by several song and dance
numbers by Mr. Truesdale and his sister.

Miss Martha Dulin then sang several solos,

and gave a very entertaining reading.

This concluded one of the most enjoyable
week-ends of the year and one of the best
programs yet prepared for a similar occasion.

The change which the Sophomore Class
of this year made in the program of former
years proved to be very good and it is hoped
that next year’s class will follow in their
footsteps.

DR. LANDRITH REVIEWS

(Continued from page 1)

humorous talk of last year, and he was
enthusiastically received by the student body
this time, his excellent thoughts being most
helpful in promoting an intense interest in
Christian Endeavor work on the campus.
Dr. W. W. Akers, pastor of the West Ave.
Presbyterian Church, of Charlotte, and Mr.
Roy Breg, secretary of the International
Society of Christian Endeavor, were also
present for the chapel service.

Selecting as his topic a few words from
the tenth chapter of Mark, he read as fol-
lows: “And when He was gone forth into
the way, there came one running, and kneeled
to Him, and asked Him, “Good Master, what
shall I do to inherit eternal life?’ And Jesus

New Catalogues

The Davidson College Bulletin and
Catalogue for 1929-1930, containing
Announcements for 1930-1931, will
be available on or about March
15th. It is the custom of the College
to publish the régular monthly bul-
letin each year in March in
the form of a catalogue. The issue
this year will have practically the
same contents as in previous years
except that the new requirements
for entrance and degrees, which will
go into effect in September, 1930,
will be included. Any student who
wishes to obtain a copy of the cat-
alogue may do so by calling at the
office of the Registrar any time aft-
er March 15th.

|
|
Edwin Steckel Presents |
Amusing Lecture-Recital
Noted Entertainer Pleases Large

Audience With Various Popular
and Classical Selections

Last Thursday evening, Mr. Edwin Steckel
was presented in a lecture-recital in New,
Chambers at 7:30. A satisfactory audience
was present.

Mr. Steckel began by lecturing for the |
first twenty minutes on the origin and ad-
vancement of music and musical instruments.
Music, said he, has both physical and spirit- |
ual elements such as love, hatred and pious
devotion. Music began in the night-time of |
civilization in the form of sounds made by |
a savage in striking a hollow tree with a|
club as a signal of danger. This later devel- |
oped into the animal skin drum. Rhythm was |
soon introduced by the dances of these |
savages to their crude drums. He concluded |
by saying that the real purposé o{Ahe recital
was to teach one to listen bettér_to music,
especially men, as music really belongs~to
men, since all great musical composers were |
men.

Mr. Steckel illustrated in his lecture such
musical elements as rhythm and harmony
by playing numerous pieces and composi-
tions on the Morrison organ. Among the
better known were: “The Blue Danube,”
“Irish Folk Song,” “My Old Kentucky |
Home,” and “Finlandia.”

The second half of the program was com-
pleted on the piano by which Mr. Steckel
showed that the backbone of many modern
popular hits were simple old tunes or great
compositions. He finished the recital by
playing “Dixie” and “Yankee Doodle” simul-
taneously.

Mr. Steckel’s lecture was filled with a
number of humorous sayings and quite a
bit of satire to the amusement of his audi-
ence.

zation, consisting of eighty thousand local
organizations of 40,000,00 members with 87
different denominations and communions.
There is a spirit of co-operation in Chris-
tian Endeavor; and the Christian Endeavor
movement stands for four things. First, it
stands for the Confession of Christ, which
includes absolute faith in Christ; second, it
stands for service for Christ. Every good
deed in this world is pleasing to the Lord;
we must show loyalty to Christ’s churches.
The third thing is fellowship with Christ
and with Christ’s people. It is a pity to con-
fine your ministerial activities to a single
congregation in the twentieth century. It’s
the “plus” that makes the man who is above
the rest. The fourth purpose of the Chris-
tian Endeavor movement today is the pro-
moting of interdenominational fellowship and
good will, of evangelism and Christian
citizenship.”

In closing his talk, Doctor Landrith ex-
plained that in Christian Endeavor, “we
show the world that we know how to for-
give,” and spoke of the tremendous possi-

Two Screen Stars in
Paul Whiteman Hour

John Boles (left) and Lloyd Hughes

listeners are to hear

John Boles, star of ‘The
Desert Song’ and “Rio Rita,”
sing his “Song of the Dawn"

Vuesday evening, March 18. This
as one of his numbers on an all-
male program of the Paul White-
man-Old Gold Hour, to be broad-
cast over the Columbia system at
9 o'clock eastern standard time.
Boles, known to thousands as
the “golden voice of the, screen,”
is now co-starring with Laura
La Plante on Universal’s lot in

Ree

“La Marsellaise."’ He also ap-
pears with Whiteman and his
band in ‘King of Jazz,”" soon to
be presented on the talking
screen by Carl’ Laemmle.

Lloyd Hughes, another star of
this week's Old Gold broadcast,
came with Radio Pictures to ap-
pear with Bebe Daniels in her
first show after her success in
“Rio. Rita’’ and ‘Love Comes
Along."’ Hughes also has the lead
with Mary Astor in an early re-
lease tentatively titled “Cooking
Her Goose.”

Bonteron Not Able

To Deliver Lecture

Le Cercle Franéaise regrets to announce
that Monsieur Marcel Bonteron, well-known
author and librarian of Paris, France, who
was scheduled to speak at Davidson on
March 26, has been forced to cancel his
engagement here. He is at present on an
extended speaking tour which has taken him
to the Pacifive coast and throughout the
Southern states. He has found his itinerary
too taxing for his strength and it has been
decided by the general secretary of the Al-
liance Francaise, under whose auspices he
came to America, to relieve him from sev-
eral of his speaking engagements. It is
hoped that another speaker may be secured
for a lecture later in the year.

the king, nor from the great resources of
Babylon, but from Jehovah. The valuable
lesson that we can learn from Daniel here is
to go out with full confidence, not that we
can do anything great in our own strength,
but that God through us can do all things.
We are the instruments through which He
accomplishes His will. He can give us all
the qualities that go to make up this spirit
of Excellency. The man who has found God
can never turn aside to little or unworthy
things.

Miss Milton of the Queens student body.
closed the service with a vocal selection.

JUNIOR CLASS SPONSORS

(Continued from page 1)
curtain will rise at 8:00 o'clock.
It was also announced that the first feature

starting the week-end program will be held
in Charlotte on Friday night in the Charlotte
hotel ballroom. On the following night, after
the Junior Minstrel has been given, the cele-
bration will be concluded in Mooresville,
where a Davidson Orchestra will entertain.
The same Orchestra has also been secured
for the Friday night social. From all present
indications, the traditional party will be well-
attended.

“Would you love me as much if father
lost all of his money?”

“Has he?”

“Why, no.”

“Of course I would, darling.”

| of every 4 Cars

suffers some damage each year: Goes
afire. Is stolen. Becomes involved
ye in a collision. Dam-
ages property.
ie sure remedy
for such damage is
adequate insurance.
Avoid financial
loss by carrying
one of our 4-
square Automobile
policies protesting
against loss from
fire, theft, col-
lision, and
property dam-
age. Tele-
phone, call, or
write.

It's safer to have insurance—
and not need it!

Independence Trust Co.

Insurance Department
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

said unto him, ‘Why callest thou me good?] bility that Christian Endeavor possesses. ¢
There is none good but one, that is, God.’”
Doctor Landrith spoke in part the following:| DR. W. H. FRAZER SPEAKS
“It is a lot easier to be good now than it ——- “ ”9
d to be. We a t hypocrites. Christian (Continued from Page 5) ;
Bedievor is an BERS A oe established to] in Daniel was his dependence on God. All of STETSON D STORE
enable young people to live. It is an organi-| Daniel’s joys and successes came not from ° ; :
$29.50 Opposite Compe $34.50
DELUXE ICE CRE AM The Spring Holidays are Near. Place your
order for that Spring Suit. Complete Line of
Special Designs Brick Eskimo Pies Spring furnishings.
At Students’ Store and Dealers Sincerely,
ORESVILLE ICE CREAM COM PANY
MO' RAY HARRISON
Mooresville, N. C.
-

