THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY &, 1930

Alumni Council Meets at Davidson

Saturday For Important Session

Six of the Seven Members of That
Body Expected to Attend—Meet-
ing Will Convene at 10:30 A. M.

LUNCHEON PLANNED

Reports and Recommendations Will
Occupy Major Porton of Their
Attention

Six of the seven members of the David-
son College Alumni Council are expected to
gather at Davidson Saturday for a lengthy
and important session, when reports will be
made by the alumni secretary and treas-

‘ urer and recommendations made, Latest re-
ports from H. Smith Richardson, ’06, presi-
dent of the Association and Council, indi-
cated that J. D. Woodside, '98, of New
York, would be the only absent member.

Others expected to come to Davidson be-
sides Mr. Richardson are Dr. Hamilton W.
McKay, ’06, of Charlotte; H. °T. Mills, ’06,
of Greenvillle, S. C.; J. Edward Johnston,
14, of Baltimore, Md.; John McAlister, ’19,
of Greensboro, and S. Clay Williams, ’05, of
Winston-Salem. Dr. Walter L. Lingle, ’92,
President of Davidson, will also meet with
this Council.

This is the first meeting of the body since
last June, and is held preparatory to the
Alumni Day of commencement, when de-
tails of the annual meeting will be.discussed.
Nominations of officers and alumni trustees
for the succeeding year and four years, re-
spectively, will be made, a ballot containing
the names of the nominees to°be sent to the
entire alumni constituency immediately fol-
lowing the conference here.

During the past several weeks the alumni
secretary has been busy preparing reports
and recommendations of various sorts, com-
piling comparative statistical data, in ref-
erence to the expenses, contributions from
the alumni, funds received according to class,
all of which will be considered by this di-
recting body Saturday. Possibilities of alumni
expansion on an increased budget has been
called for, and elaborate outlines of the va-
rious phases of the alumni office have been
prepared by the secretary.

The session will convehé)at 10:30 a. m.,
Saturday, and will have lunch together at
12:30, reconvening thereafter for a continua-
tion of the discussions, which are expected
to occupy most of the day.

Births

W. J. Roddey, ’14,, and Mrs. Roddey, of
Columbia, S. C., announce the birth of a
son, W. J., Jr., on April 25th.

W. J. Pharr, ’20, and Mrs. Pharr, of Bel-
mont, announce the birth of a son, Wil-
fiam James, Jr., on April 26th.

Ben White, ’21, and Mrs. White, of Con-
cord, announce the birth of a son, Robert
Benjamin, on May Ist.

JULIAN MILLER

(Continued from Page 1)
entertained at a banquet. Zeb V. Long, Jr.,
of Statesville, president of the chapter, acted
as toastmaster. Informal talks were made
by most of the members present at the ban-
quet.

AWARDS FOR DISTINCTION

(Continued from page 1)
which has attracted the attention of national
investigators.

“The critics claim that commercialism,
over-emphasis to the subjection of the real
purpose of an education, and poor scholar-
‘ship are outgrowths of football as it is

_ played today,” and after discussion of these
points-at some length, Mr. Doughtery came
to the defense of this sport and! agreed with
the defenders in their claim that “the vir-
tues. of good sportsmanship, co-operation,
self-control, and group effort outweighed the

“College Ties” was sung to terminate the
“* program. of the evening.

e e
Alumni Marriages
“Mr. and Mrs. Haden C. Holmes an-
nounce the marriage of their daughter, Eliza-
beth Dillard, to James Franklin Hurley, Jr.,
at Salisbury, N. C.”

Mrs. Hurley is the only daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Holmes, and is a graduate of the
North Carolina College for Women. Mr.
Hurley was in the class of 1919 at Davidson,
later attending the University of North Car-
olina. He served as a lieutenant in the World
war,’ and at its conclusion became connect-
ed with The Salisbury Post, of which he is
secretary-treasurer and business manager. He
is a members of the Kiwanis Club and a
former officer of the Samuel Hart Post of
the American Legion in Salisbury.

PICKUPS AND PASSES

(Continued from page 3)

to be played at home. The season so far
can be judged only moderately success-
ful, but an even break on the remaining
quartet of contests would make the skies
look much brighter. The team put out
this spring, and much better results have
been gained than anyone dared hope for
at the beginning of the season.

None of the games to come are
easy. Duke has only recently finished
an impressive road trip in the east,
winning most of the games. Their
record for the season is one of the
best in the state, and will present. a
tough assignment’ for the Wildcats.
Carolina has already taken Davidson's
measure once, and wouldn’t be adverse
to doing so again. Little or nothing
is known about the University of
South Carolina Gamecocks, but the
game will be no set up.

Net Results

The tennis team of the Darlington
School for Boys, which so emphatically
won from the Freshmen Saturday, have
made one of the most impressive..records
of any prep school team in the south this
year. They played three matches Friday
and Saturday, and did not lost a set.
Their string of victories now numbers
fifteen consecutive. They are making a
strong bid for Southern honors.

Engagements

Martin-Foil

Announcement was made at Davidson last
Saturday of the approaching marriage of
Martin Boger Foil, ’23, of Concord, and
Miss Jean Vardell Martin, of Davidson, the
wedding to take place at Montreat in late
August. This is the first engagement which
is known to involve an alumnus and an
alumna of Davidson, for Miss Martin was
at one time a student at this institution.

Immediately after his graduation in 1923,
Mr. Foil became connected with the Can-
non Mills at Concord, and is still a member
of that concern. Miss Martin is a daughter
of Dr. and Mrs. W.:J. Martin, the former
now president-emeritus of Davidson. This
announcement is of wide interest to David-
son alumni everywhere, because of the prom-
inence of the two parties.

Forbes-Ramsey
“Capt. and Mrs. J. W. Forbes, of Tar-
boro, announce the engagement of their
daughter, Josephine, to William Campbell
Ramsey, of Greensboro, the wedding to take
place on June 21.”

Mr. Ramsey graduated from Davidson in
the Class of 1925, and for several years aft-
erward was a teacher in the high school at
Tarboro. At present he is connected: with
the Jefferson Standard Life Insurance Com-
pany of Greensboro.

DePass-Stephenson
Announcement was made Sunday of the
engagement and approaching marriage of
Miss Polly DePass, of Camden, S. C., to
Robert Moffatt Stephenson, of Covington,
Ga., the wedding to take place in late sum-
mer.

My. Stephenson graduated at Davidson in
1928, and since that time has been attending
the Harvard Business School, from which
he will graduate in June.

NEW MEMBERS OF BOARD

(Continued from page 1)
member.

Previous to the election, Dr. Arbuckle,
who was recently re-elected chairman of the
board, made a short talk emphasizing the
importance of the Board of Control in its
work of financing and directing, to some ex-
tent, the work of the local “Y.” He said that
care must be taken in choosing the men for

membership.

EXPERT
LET US REBUILD YOUR

BOB TURNER, 31 Ga. -
a

MASTER CLEANERS AND DYERS :

We Make Calls and Deliver in the Town of Davidson
WRIGHT CLEANING CO.

SHOE REBUILDERS
SHOES AT TICKET RATES

- Representative

'

$29.50

Summer

STETSON “D” STORE

Oppatte Sess

Complete Line of

Nurotex and Linens |

; COMPLETE LINE OF FURNISHINGS

$34.50

Materials

x

Alumni Personal Mention

Friends will regret to learn of the death
of Mrs. Jeanette Elliott Johnston, wife of
Charles W. Johnston, ’84, of Charlotte; of
Mrs. T. J. Huneycutt, mother of Rev. Q. N.
Huneycutt, ’19, of Waxhaw, and Rev. W. J.
Huneycutt, '19, of Fayetteville; of Mrs. J.
A. Hunter, mother of Dr. W. B. Hunter,
07, of Gastonia.

Hon. Chas. G. Rose, 1900, of Fayette-
ville, was last week selected as President
of the North Carolina Bar Association at
its annual meeting at Pinehurst.

J. M. Cooke, ’26, who completes his med-
ical work at the University of Pennsylvania
in June, has been appointed to the Univer-
sity Hospital, Philadelphia, for his interne-
ship.

Dr. R. A. Dunn, of Charlotte, honorary
alumnus of Davidson, has been re-elected
President of the Presbyterian Foundation,
Inc. H. N. Pharr, ’87, of Charlote, was, also
re-elected as Vice-President. Other David-
son alumni on the board,are Rev. Alexander
Martin, D.D.; ’95, of Rock Hill, S. C, and
Hon. W. F. Stevenson, ’85, of Cheraw.

Morgan B. Spier, Jr., ’26, of Charlotte, is
an alumnus-at-large representative of a state
organization of presidents and faculty ad-
visors of student Y. M. C. A.’s. Mr. Spier
was also on the committee which sponsored
a recent discussion in Charlotte on the so-
cial Jife of all state institutions.

T. T. Allison, 1900, of Charlotte, has been
elected chairman of the Charlotte School
Board, succeeding Chase Brenizer, 90, who
resigned in the face of other business duties.

Rev. James T. Pharr, 12, of Cass, W. Va.,
will preach the baccalaureate sermon before
the graduating class of the Renick (W. Va.)
High School on May 18th.

ase
W. H. Bailey, ’29, has completed his tem-
porary residence in New York, and has
been sent to the Memphis (Tenn.) office of
the Equitable Life Assurance Society. His
address in Memphis, is Box ‘1096. He was
formerly located at Nashville, Tenn.

Prof. John P. Williams, 16, recently
wrote a letter to the group of classes of
14, ’15, 716, and ’17, all of which return to
Davidson for reunions this commencement,
and Prof. Archibald Currie, 97, likewise ad-
dressed a communication to the classes of
95, '96, '97, and ’98. Special letters have
been sent to the classes of 1914 and 1917,
from Rev. J. R. McGregor, of Lexington,
and D. I. McKeithen, of Aberdeen, presi-
dents, respectively, of these two classes.
Many other special letters will be sent out
through the alumni office during the next
several weeks.

Another coincidence of foreign letters ar-

wr

riving at the alumni office at Davidson oc-
curred last week, when one came from an
alumnus in Greece, and the following day
one was received from Africa. These let-
ters came from L. A. Steele, '06, in Greece,
and Rev. Plumer Smith, ’07, in Africa.

John C. Bailey, Jr., ’22, now doing grad-
uate work at Johns Hopkins University,
Baltimore, was a visitor on the campus for
a few hours some time ago. Rev. J. L. Parks,
'22, of Spencer, also stopped off for a little
while en route from Charlotte to his home.

Davidson alumni here for the O. D. K.
initiation were Dr. Robert W. McKay, 17,
and J. C. McDonald, ’15, both of Charlotte,
who were taken into the fraternity. Other
alumni members of O. D. K. on the campus
that evening were Hugh A. Query, ’09, and
D. R. al 22, both of Gastonia.

Roland B. Parker, ’26, professor at the
Darlington School, accompanied the tennis
team of that institution to Davidson, and
spent several hours in the alumni office, dis-
closing some interesting information about
many alumni. This, however, will not be
released for a week or two.

Lacy L. McAlister, ’20, of Greensboro, is
a visitor on the campus today.

H. D. Mills, ’01, has been critically ill
at his home in Mooresville, Lieut. W. C.
Mills, ’28, who was with the flying squadron
maneuvering in California, flew from that
state to Mooresville to be at the bedside
of his father.

S. W. Brown, ’26, who is finishing his law
studies at Tulane University this commence-
ment, is student editor-in-chief of the Tu-
lane Law Review, is president of the law
student body, and is vice-president of the
Tulane University student body. He has been
offered and has accepted the Sterling Fel-
lowship at Yale University, and will next
fall go to New Haven for research work in
civil law.

Announcement was made recently that
Vick Chemical Company, of Greensboro,
had been merged with Drug, Inc., a quarter
of a billion dollar concern, and’ that H. Smith
Richardson, ’06, chairman of the board of
directors of Vick Chemical, would be a di-
rector of Drug, Inc. Plans are that the Vick
Chemical Company will continue to operate
as an individual unit. Lunsford Richardson,
14, is president of Vick Chemical.

SHADOWS OF COMING
EVENTS
(Continued from page 3)
Tennis—Duke at Davidson (Varsity).
Tuesday, May 13
Baseball—Carolina at Chapel Hill (Var-
sity).

Thursday, May 15
Baseball—Duke at Davidson (Varsity).

Special Designs

DELUXE ICE CREAM

At Students’ Store and Dealers

MOORESVILLE ICE CREAM COM PANY

Mooresville, N. C.

- Brick Eskimo Pies

“DRUGS”

CANDY .-:- FLOWERS
WHITE DRUG CO.
“PRESCRIPTIONS |

“SODA”

