THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 27, 1930

AWS

~—
—

Winston-Salem Alumni
To Meet December 15

Dr. Walter L. Lingle Has Accepted
Invitation to Speak—Editorial
Comment From The Journal

William H. Neal, ’17, president of the
Winston-Salem Davidson alumni chapter,
has called a meeting of Davidson men in
and near Winston-Salem for the night of
December 15th, and has invited Dr. Wal-
ter L. Lingle, 92, president of Davidson,
and Dr. Oren Moore, ’08, of Charlotte, as
speakers. Both have accepted the invita-
tion.

Details of the dinner-meeting have not
yet been announced, but the officers, Mr.
Neal, R. S. Haltiwanger, '14, vice-presi-
dent, and M. E. Miller, '26, secretary-
treasurer, plan to exert considerable ef-
fort between now and December 15th.
This chapter met last year for a reorgani-
zation, and approximately 45 alumni at-
tended the meeting.

The Winston-Salem Journal commented
editorially upon the approaching meeting,
and with the caption, Doctor Lingle Com-
ing,” had this to say:

“Alumni and friends of Davidson Col-
lege are looking forward with consider-
able interest to the coming here on De-
cember 15 of Dr, Walter L. Lingle, pres-
ident of that well known institution. Since
this will be his first visit here since he
assumed leadership of the Presbytérian
College, he will be greeted with all the
more enthusiasm. Already he has demon-
strated in splendid manner his ability to
discharge the duties of his position cap-
ably and constructively.

“Davidson College has approximately
one hundred alumni in and around Win-
ston-Salem. And besides this: number of
graduates, the college has a host of friends
and supporters here, Davidson’s fame for
scholarship, prowess in athletics, and dis-
tinction in all-around college: work have
given the institution front rank
academic circles.

in

“Alumni and friends of Davidson will
be eager to hear from President Lingle
himself about the plans. in mind for the
further development of the college. The

. college owes no little of itp success to a
happy blending of conservatism with sub-
stantial progress.”

es

i
Engagements

“Mr. and Mrs. Morgan B. Speir, of
Charlotte, announces the engagement of
their daughter, Mary Coley, to Dr. Wil-
liamson Zeigler Bradford, of New York,
the wedding to take place in January.”
Dr. Bradford is a 1924 graduate of David-
son, took his medical work at the Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania, and after doing part
of his interne work at the Long Island
College Hospital in Broklyn, became con-
nected with Bellvue Hospital in New
York. Dr. Bradford is a native of Char-
lotte, and later will come to that city to
practice.

10 F aculty Members
In 1930 “Who’s Who”

Ten wand ai the Davidson College

faculty and administration are listed in
the 1930-1931 edition of “Who’s Who of
America.” This number, however, in-
cludes the name of Dr. W. J. Martin, for-
mer president of Davidson, and now pres-
ident-emeritus of the institution and pres-
ident of General Assembly’s Training
School in Richmond, Va. Eliminating his
name, there are nine Davidson people in
“the latest edition, which is the same num-
ber appearing in 1929-1930,

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Da-
vidson, is the only addition to the roster.
In addition to Dr. Liggle and Dr. Martin,
others listed are Dr. I
Dr. Frazer Hood, Dr, Thomas W. Lingle,
Prof. Scott C, Lyon,*Dr. John W. .Mac-
Connell, Dr. J. M. McConnell, Dr. C. M.

coward B. Arbuckle, |

Alumni Marriages

Speir- Wilson

Morgan Brower Speir, Jr., of Char-
lotte, 1926 graduate of Davidson, and Miss
Marjorie Elouise. Wilson, of Champagne,
Ill., were married in the First Congrega-
tional Church of Champagne on Saturday,
November 22. Mrs. Speir is a gifted musi-
cian and is a graduate of the University
of Illinois, where she was an active lead-
er, Since graduating from Davidson, Mr.
Speir has been connected with the Inde-
pendence Trust Company, and has a re-
sponsibile’ position in the insurance depart-
ment. After January Ist Mr. and Mrs.
Speir will be at home in Charlotte.

Edwin Speir, ’29, of Greenville, S. C.,
and Nat Speir, ’32, student at Davidson,
were in their brother’s wedding.

Crosland-Armstrong

“Mrs. John B. Armstrong, of Barnwell,
S. CC. announces the marriage of her
daughter, Lavinia Moore, to Robert
Moseley Crosland, of Charlotte, on June
15th, at the Presbyterian manse, York,
S: C.” This announcement was just made
Sunday. Mr. Crosland was in the class of
1928, at Davidson, and since leaving here
has been playing in numerous tennis tour-
naments and now connected with a
sporting goods house in Charlotte. Mr.
and Mrs. Crosland are at home at’4 Hert-
ford Road, Myers Park, Charlotte, N. C.

New Addresses

Davidson alumni are constantly chang-
ing their address, and during the course
of a year’s time, well over 700 corrections
are made on the records of the alumni
secretary. Some of the recent ones, not
mentioned in the “Alumni Personal” col-
umn, include:

Hadley A.
York, N. Y.

R. M. Williams, '94, 152 Cleveland St.,
Fort Myers, Fla.

J. M. Williams, Jr., ’25, 7716 Buffalo
Ave., Niagara Falls, N. Y.

H. L. Shaw, Jr., ’26, 900 Riverside Drive,
New York, N. Y.

P. H. McAlpine, ’22, 1609 Euclid Ave.,
Charlotte.

A. F, Black, '10, 1353 Peacock Ave., Co-
lumbus, Ga.

A. J. Cox, '29, 2834 Whittier Road, Los
Angeles, Calif.

A. S. Rose, '28, 170 Kent St., Brookline,
Mass.

J. A. McIver and W. T. McIver, both
of ’25, 22-42 Ketchum St., Long Island,
New York,

Rey. R. D. Dodge, ’09, Ocala, Fla.

R. G, Sparrow, ’88, 1170 5th Ave., New
York, N. Y.

R. H. McMillan,
Knoxville, Tenn.

J. I, Yohannon, ’11, The Receiving Ship
at N. Y. Navy Yard, Brooklyn, N. Y.

W. C. Knight, ’31, Palace Hotel, Volo,
Greece,

D. P. Douglas, ’20,'510 N. 21st St., Bir-
mingham, Ala.

L. C. Wadsworth, ’29, Live Oak, Fla.

C. C. Carson, Jr., ’28, Aetna Life In-

is

Hill, ’21 E. 38th St. New

24, Arnold Hotel,

.surance Co., Capital Bank & Loan Bldg.,

Topeka, Kansas.

Richards, and Dr, M. E. Sentelle. Of the
list of ten, seven of them are alumni of
Davidson. The three Davidson faculty
members from other colleges are Dr. Ar-
buckle, of Hampden-Sydney, and Dr.

Hood and Prof. Lyon, both of South-
western.

Cambridge, Mass—(IP) — Democracy,

an unknown quantity on the Harvard cam-
pus for many a year, is about to be intro-
duced on that campus, if efforts being made
by President Lowell and the other admin-
istrators are successful.
Thé administration is seeking to bring an
end to the exclusive cliques at Harvard, and
to have the undergraduates of all classes and
degrees of wealth mix more freely. ”

Davidson Represented
In Special Editions

Both Charlotte Papers Published
Unusually Large Papers Last
Week—Alumni Photographs

Used

A hurried glance through the two large
editions last week of The Charlotte Ob-
server and The Charlotte News, known
respectively as “The Progress Edition,”
and “Junior League Edition,” shows that
Davidson College and her alumni were
well represented throughout. Any omis-
sions of names below is unintentional, but
is because the alumni. secretary
these in his rapid survey.

missed

In the “Progress Edition” of The Ob-
server, there were two pictures of David-
son’s buildings, Eumenean Literary Soci-
ety hall and the Old Chambers Building.
A photograph of Dr. Walter L. Lingle,
president of Davidson, an article by Dr.
Lingle telling of the beneficient gift of
the late James B. Duke and the benefits
derived therefrom, and an article about
Dr. Lingle’s first year at Davidson were
included,

Davidson's alumni, whose photographs
were used were Mayor Geo. E. Wilson,
Jr., '10; Rev. H. G. Bedinger, ’11, Dr. W.
S. Rankin, '01, J. Caldwell McDonald, ’15,
and Spencer R. Crawford, ’16. An dafticle
told about Mayor Wilson’s presidency of
the Wilson-Pettit Motor Company, an-
other about Mr. Bedinger’s new work as
president of Flora Macdonald College; an-
other about Dr. W. S. Rankin’s direction
of the hospital benefits of the Duke fund,
and another by Dr. Rankin, outlining the
future program. An article told of the
growth of McDonald’s Service Stations,
headed by Mr. McDonald, and one told of
Mr. Cranford’s managership of the Lowell
Roller Covering Company.

In The Charlotte News’ “Junior League
Edition,” Mayor Wilson congratulated
the organization on its good, work and
extended best wishes; FE. T. Cansler, Jr.,

10, wrote a poem entitled, “Husband’s

Prayer at Midnight,” and S. T. Hender-
son, ‘17, wrote a humorous article, which
has a head, “League’s Husband Like
Bruise on Gnat’s Heel.”

Births

Mr. Alexander E. Cook, ’21, and Mrs.
Cook, of Fayetteville, announce the birth

of a son, Alexander Eugene, Jr., on No-~

vember 18th.

Olympia, Wash.—(IP)—It is thought
possible that a constitutional amendment may
be submitted to Washington voters in the
near future, calling for the permission to
use the Bible as a textbook in the public
schools of the state.

Since Washington became a state, relig-
ious education in common schools has been
forbidden by the constitution. The question
has been taken through the courts by inter-
ested individuals and organizations.

one

Alumni Personals

Rey. J. H. Grey, Jr., ’23, who studied
last year at Edinburgh University, is now
at 202 McDowell St., Lexington, Va.

Dr. L. P. Cox, ’25, is now practicing
medicine in Des Moines, Iowa. He is at
+17 Bankers’ Trust Bldg. Dr. Cox
terned at a Mobile, Ala., hospital.

in-

Rev. J. B. Sloan, Jr., ’23, is studying for
a Ph.D. degree in theology at the Yale
Divinity School. He is living at 490 Or-
chard St., New Haven, Conn.

Paul B. Price, ’24, is teaching at Mar-
ianna, Ark.

J. H., McEwen, ’14, has been elected
president of the Kiwanis Club of Burling-
ton.

Friends will be glad to learn that R. J.
Alderman, father of B. G. Alderman, ’28,
of Alcolu, S. C., is recuperating from a
heart attack suffered at Fayetteville, en-
route to New York.

J. P. Harmon, ’28, of Oxford, is on the
executive committee to make plans for
the north central North Carolina confer-
ence basketball play.

Dr. Henry Louis Smith, ’81, of Greens-
boro, president-emeritus ‘of Washington
and Lee and former president of David-
son, will speak at the commencement ex-
ercises of Greensboro College.

Augustus Leazer, ‘11, who has been in
charge of the airport at Raleigh, has been
promoted to the managership of the At-
lanta airport. An account of this promo-
tion and a photo of Mr. Leazer recently
appeared in The Raleigh News and Ob-
server,

John R. Jones, Jr., 18, of Albemarle, is

president of the Stanly County Relief As-
sociation.

Rev. J. S. McFall, ’26, will go to Alice-
ville, Ala., December Ist, to become pas-
tor of three churches. He has been located
at Morven, N. C.

Dr. John Q. Myers, '06, of Charlotte, is
of the stockholders in the newly
formed corporation, Tranquil Realty Co.,
and E. H, Graham,*13, of Goldsboro, is a
stockholder in the Goldsboro Boe Com-
pany, recently granted a charter.

A. Kk. Goodman, 04, of Mt. Ulla, was a
visitor in the alumni office last week.

C. E. Houston, ’26, B. A. Wilson, ’28, and
E. R. Houston, .’28, are all residing to-
gether at 65 Morton*St., New York. Mr.
C. E. Houston obtained his law degree
from New York University last June, and
is now with a law firm in that city.

Campbell W. Ansley, '17, is with the
Union Realty Company, of High Point.
Mr, Ansley was in Davidson for a short
while Monday morning.

Fr

Garland Court

Printing and Engraving
of i
Every Description

J. A. CANNON
311 Watts

STANDARD PRINTING CO.

Charlotte, N. C.

Rome, Ga., Is Included
On Four-Day Itinerary

Meeting in Atlanta Postponed Until
Later Upon Advice of Chapter
President—Davidson People to

Attend

Plans have necessarily been altered for
one of the series of meetings planned for
Georgia, Tennessee and Alabama. Upon
the advice of the president of the Atlanta
chapter, a meeting of the Davidson men
in the Georgia metropolis has been post-
poned until sometime in January, Al-
though no definite acceptance of Decem-
ber lst as a meeting time for the Rome,
Ga., alumni has been received, this has
been suggested, and may possibly replace
the Atlanta gathering.

Alumni or officers in Chattanooga,
Nashville, and Louisville, have all agreed
upon the suggested dates of December 2,
3, and 4, respectively for their meetings,
and arrangements are now being made for
all of them, The alumni secretary has re-
cently sent out to each alumnus in and
near those cities a list of the Davidson
men thereabouts, and additions and cor-
rections are being received this week.

Capt. Norton G, Pritchett, professor of
physical education, and Ernest Milton,
alumni secretary, will attend this series of
alumni meetings. Both of these men have
had experience before alumni gatherings.
Capt. Pritchett attended several last
spring that included Rome, Atlanta,
Thomasville, Jacksonville,° Orlando, Tam-
pa, and Miami, and Mr. Milton has visited
more than one time most of the 25 chap-
ters Davidson has in existence.

It is also the plan of the alumni secre-
tary to have Captain Pritchett appear be-
fore the student bodies of several prep-
aratory schools located along the route,
particularly in the cities on the itinerary.

Washington—(IP)—The Artfierican Coun-
cil on Education has undertaken the develop-
ment of a new system of standardized tests
for college students which it is believed may
revolutionize methods of higher education.

The plan is to have a student’s advance-
ment depend on actual achievements in learn-
ing rather than in spending a certain time,
such as a semester, in a certain study.

It is proposed to construct a graduated
series of standard knowledge tests for every
subject commonly studied in colleges.

The council is working under a grant of
$500,000 from the Rockefeller Foundation.

Moscow—(IP)—A plan of universal com-
pulsory education, which Russia has been
unable heretofore to carry out because of a
lack of teachers, schools, and textbooks, has
been put into operation this year after these
important gaps in the system were filled.

LANDLORDS

one

After the
fire drives
out your
tenants and
stops your
rent in-
come, where
are you go-
ing to get
the money to-pay taxes-and other
fixed expenses during the time
your property is being repaired
and rebuilt with your Fire insur-
ance money?

Rent Insurance will offset the
income-loss during the period of
forced untenantability. Let us tell
how it protects your investment
and insures your rent-income.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
Insurance Department
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

McAlister Carson (’13), Manager
M. B. Speir (’26)

