NS

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 13, 1930

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
iegiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
anaging Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.
——————eOo———————————S—SSSS—S—S_
Z.3_V. LONG, Jr... Editor-in-Chief
E. H. McCALL Busi Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

}. B. BLACK Managing Editor
4 °W, SMUGULOPRAN ciesccccaccccaccenbaccace Managing Editor
Wi iG, CRAGIN iiieisceucc is cccss2k -Managing Editor
Pi OREVABDORMAN soccstctscnsccscessuaesele Athletic Editor
J. V. D. MIDDLETON........._..._...... Assignment Editor
J. F. PRESTON eature Editor
Wie Io @BROW.N tasted sud cocuceulaupianGudc suey Feature Editor
R. F. JARRATT. ee A iate Editor
F. D. MILLER A Editor
C. M. PRATT. e Editor

|

BUSINESS STAFF

J. A. CANNON..-.- Hy l ,
L. L. BOYD Sabeevioneneany
A. J. BAKER.-....2oL Solicitor
PS Solicitor
y H. Solicitor
‘ 9. Me iS Ralinis,

+ AIR MR WGREb Lebeuceacdan cadens docous Nook beau GUUERe Solicitor
Ni, --Solicitor
REPORTERS’ CLUB
Be ISMHERMNER: sccrctoet.) wo ed President
Pie RAGIN Sesdoseeslccocsincnsctascasoleeuse Vice-President
}: aes MIDDLETON ......_..-........ Secretary-Treasurer
. G. BERRY . G. DUNKLIN

. C. MATTHEWS . S. LEA

. G. MARTI. C. W. F. SPENCER
J. R. SMITH W. T. HANCOCK
D. O, STEPHENSON JOHN M. BROW
R f eee G. P. PARDINGTON
» eee pone MATTHEWS, W. H.
BIRD’ hen DWELLE, E. C.

FEBRUARY 13, 1930°

THE VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
Davidson is to be congratulated on obtaining
Dr. Harry Rimmer for a second visit. Sunday
evening he will speak again, and a great audience
should hear the message. Dr. Rimmer is one of
the most inspiring lecturers we have ever heard.

Another treat is promised with the visit of
Doctor William Ellsworth in connection with the
English Department. Doctor Ellsworth is billed as
a fascinating speaker.

Some game—that scrap with Duke. Don’t think
we ever saw a better one. Still tougher to drop it,
and in the way it came about. The Wildcats are
due all the praise in the world for that exhibition.

Monk Younger must have enjoyed that Vir-
ginia jaunt more than anyone else, Licking all his
old cronies and doing it in such decisive style must
have tickled the Wildcat centor a lot.

Elon is sure to give the Cats a real battle Sat-
urday night. The Christians never fail to have a
fighting quint. Pull hard for that win. It may be
hard to get.

A GYMNASIUM FOR DAVIDSON

Davidson’s crying need of a new and bet-
ter gymnasium was set forth in definite
terms this week, when the thorough inade-
quacy of the local plant necessitated the re-
moval of the all-important game with Duke
University to a Charlotte court: The change
of place was unfortunate. from several view-
points, but could hardly be avoided in con-
sideration of many elements which would
have rendered the contest unsatisfactory if
played in Alumni Gymnasium here.

Last year Davidson’s memorable defeat
of the Blue Devils was completed in the
local gymnasium before a crowd which
taxed the place to capacity, and even ren-
dered the building absolutely unsafe. The
largest crowd ever to see a basketball game
at Davidson filled the small building far
above its normal capacity, making it ispos-
sible for local authorities to handle the sit-
uation successfully. It was noticed on that
occasion that the balcony sagged under the
tremendous weight of the throng which
filled every available inch of space. Down-
stairs the crowd was so great that it con-
stantly flowed onto the playing court, bring-
ing forth justifiable complaints from the
visiting players, and greatly hindering the
progress of the contest. Hundreds of people
were turned away from the gym that night
without even glimpsing the court when the
crowd became so large as to necessitate the
locking of doors and refusal to sell a single
ticket.

The prospect of the repetition of this ex-
perience caused Davidson athletic officials
to,move Monday’s game to Charlotte. Every
game of interest evokes a similar state of
affairs, the complete inadequacy of Alumni
Gymnasium becoming more evident with

each passing day. Erected some fifteen

years ago, the building was good enough
for the small student body of less than three
hundred men, ‘but the builders failed to
provide for the complete-transition in col-
lege life which brought about the doubling

“of the student body, intensified interest in

sports, and rendered athletic equipment of
other days almost useless. This upheaval
has come within the last decade, and is be-
ing met by colleges everywhere as a prob-
lem vitally connected with the welfare of
the institution.

_Davidson’s gymnasium can barely accom-
modate the present student body. Practically
no room is left for visitors and supporters
who want to be present at athletic contests.

Even if every major game should be ttans- |

ferred to a Charlotte court, and this seems
entirely unfair to local.interests and to the
students, the stuaton here wll not be sats-
factory. Some four hundred fans were turn-
ed back at the box office Monday night
when the greatest crowd ever to“witness/a
basketball game n that city stormed the
gates to see Wildcat and Blue Devil in ac-
tion. One man travelled one hundred and
fifty miles only to find the door the limit of
his journey. Not a view of the court did he
get. It is not to be questioned that coming
years will see growing need along this line
of handling the crowds which flock from
far and wide to see the college teams per-
form. No college without adequate equip-
ment can hope to keep in line. It is doubt-
ful if any sizable institution has a more
inadequate gymnasium than Davidson.

The time is ripe for the erection of a gym-
nasium which would embrace not only suit-
able basketball facilities, but would also
provide space and equipment for the exten-
sive program of intramural athletic compe-
tition which Davidson is now undertaking.
Indoor tracks would be included, arrange-
ments for indoor gridiron practice, and
methods of handling every form of sport to
the best advantage, Davidson’s athletic fu-
ture depends to a very great advantage. Da-
vidson’s athletic future depends to a very
great degree upon some step of this nature.
Other colleges in this vicinity are filling
their needs. Davidson is falling behind.

SCIENCE AND CIVILIZATION

Undoubtedly one of the most crying needs
of present-day civilization is the need of a
social development in keeping wth the hgh
standards of mechanical perfection which
have been attained throughout the scientific
world in recent years.

With the great inventions of Edison, Bell,
Marconi and countless others, there has
come an era of mechanical superiority
which according to present indications is
only the forerunner of the “Golden Age of
Mechanical Stipremacy.”

Paralleling the purely mechanieal-inven-
tons of an objectve nature, great strides
have been taken to the front in physical,
chemical and biological research. Discover-
ies have been made which have literally
startled the world. Radium has opened the
way for a rapid advance in the field of med-
icine and new discoveries every day clear
the field for extended speculation as to the
advances which will be made shortly.

The great danger today lies in the fact
that man is not essentially the highly cul-
tured man that he should be. The social
graces have been sadly neglected and an
actual retrogression toward a more basic
stage of human civilization may be per-
ceived by a close study of past and present
conditions.

Shall the new-born industrialism impinge
upon the standards of social elegance de-
veloped so painstakingly throughout the
centuries? Shall we allow ourselves to be-
come so highly automatized that we may
neglect the very essence of civilization?
Startling challenges like these are flung
at us from the very face of the situation.

Today man pretends to be more highly
civilized than ever before. Everywhere the
land is dotted with teeming industrial cen-
ters where labor is ofttimes organized near-
ly to the maximum, yet on closer inspection
the “center” all too often proves to be a
hothouse peopled with uncouth, unclean, un-
educated people. True, such conditions have
always been the lot of the working mass,
but in these days of super-mechanics in
which science has seemingly triumphed
there should be evidence of decided social
improvement on the part of the industrial
worker.

‘With the advance of scientific knowledge
man has shown himself intent only on di-
verting his attainments towards an end
based primarily on a lack of higher civili-
zation as evidenced by the great war within
the last two decades. Here again man was
not big enough culturally to countermand
an inherent desire that an uncontrolled past
has bequeathed him.

And so on and on instances may be cited
to prove that man néeds to lend serious at-
tention to the development of a social con-
dition consonant with his present-day scien-
tific attainments.

—J. B. Black, Jr.

‘stopping to pause. It was not p nt in

fen
y

JW. MECGUTCHAN

A , PuBLia™
Nw. Xw.c. RAGIN

By the time this column is in print the United
States will doubtless have come to a decision re-
garding the appointment of Charles Evans Hughes
to the bench of the Supreme Court. Senators
Blease, of South Carolina, and Norris, of Nebraska,
have formed opposition as this is being written.
It is possible for one to appreciate Mr. Blease’s
attitude toward William Howard Taft who re-
cently resigned on account of ill health. Senator
Norris appears to have taken an honest and de-
liberate stand, but his motives are somewhat hard-
er to understand. It is much” more difficult, how-
ever, to tolerate an objection hinted at by the
gentleman from South Carolina. It would seem
that a man, who has attained the age that Mr.
Taft has, should be capable of judging the limits
of his physical energy. Furthermore, President
Hoover is expected to be sufficiently astute in such
matters. Perhaps an investigating committee will
he appointed!

To those who believe that war is a glamorous
affair we would suggest a glance at a booklet pub-
lished by authority of war officials, which pam-
phlet is entitled “The Absolute Truth.” It shows
by actual photographs many of them taken by the
United States Army Signal Corps, the true nature

' of war. It was not printed to provide horrified

incredulity and amusement to the reader, nor is it
a collection of extremes. There can be few people
who will read the titles beneath the pictures and

who will look at the scenes themselves without
1 iP |

times to be gashed and ripped with a sword or to
have one’s head cleaved in twain with a broad-
axe. It is no more pleasant to be scattered by
shrapnel or to be asphyxiated with stifling gases.
War has ceased to be the playground of kings,
the profitable occupation of men, and the passion-
ate love-winning pastime of boys: Sherman’s defi-
nition does not exaggerate.

Newspapers compare the skillful driving of a
motorcycle policeman in New York to the well-
known journey of a famous driver of dog teams
to Nome a few years ago. James McNally risked
his life by carrying serum to a hospital at break-
neck speed through the heavy traffic of the city.
He saved the life, in all probability, of Condra
Perlowitz, aged two and a half years. This column
does not desire to detract from his praise for a
service which was not in his regular line of duty.
The comparison seems a bit impertinent, however.
It is one thing to speed along crowded city streets.
It is another to face the freezing peril of tempera-
tures ranging from forty to fifty degrees below
zero; to plod into winds of high velocity carrying
dagger-like particles of sleet that cut quicker
than a sharp razor blade; to go alone with a sav-
age team. of dogs into a barren waste where the
turning of an ankle means a slow lonely death.
Lindbergh is not the only man to make a note-
worthy trip.

Arthur Brisbane, a man who at least gets paid
for his column even if it isn’t read, deplores the
so-called recklessness of Lindy. It appears to the
casual observed that the American idol should be
given the liberty of the air, out of common cour-
tesy if for no other reason. Lindbergh works hard
at his profession of aeronautics; he needs recrea-
tion. It is impossible for him to engage in “ground
activities” to any extent, because he is immediately
surrounded by a multitude of curiosity seekers who
attempt to selfishly profiteer on a reputation, the
maker of which has sought only to pursue his own
way. We would guess that the only reason that
the Flying Colonel does not retire to enjoy quiet
home life with his comely wife is because he is
ambitious and does not wish to be remembered
by one feat alone. Popularity is one of the most
insidious weapons of character, and he has been
making a successful effort to conquer it. -.---_ _-

Babe Ruth has demanded a salary contract of
$85,000.00 per year for three years, The club offi-
cials of the New York Yankees have offered him a
contract of $75,000.00 per year for two years. It is
a staggering sum in many respects. Economic stu-
dents would doubtless explain it by supply and
demand. We can sympathize with the prize. fighter
who demands a large sum for being “pummeled”
about for half an hour, but it is different if one is to
“pummel” a baseball. We like to see a good game,
and we would probably yell if the Babe “slammed
one,” but we still think that there are underpaid
scholars and scientists who have done more for

* the world than all the baseball players placed in

a row.

Through various ‘remarks we have been led to
believe that the paragraphs of this effort which
are printed in small black or bold-face type are
read in preference to the others. We are sorry if
we are unable in three paragraphs to say some-
thing which will lead to the reading of the other

This week, I shall attempt to write a column
dedicated to the Business Man of our country—
the man who does big things in a big way. In it,
I shall attempt to show just how to run an office
and to illustrate the value of hiring educated men.
Here goes: The play’s the thing.

WHAT'S IN A NAME
or
HOW TO HANDLE YOUR CHILDREN

THE CAST

Singer Hyitin asecscsceccleecclascsc the new man
The Visitor

WEWPEOO: soduacaccucdoccesusedaumusecede the boss
IANNIOR Wate cuss sscacecnceuscccs the stenographer
AR NOHMOW 6 sec enc cc bouslceeeeaes cotaabes the clerk
OPBr Sthat't-csseecc5 oo seesacccusccteeuecs a clerk
I. Wonder Whigh ------------------ the salesman
122) Watt ssccticeccusteseocoueces the office boy

ACT THE FIRST—AND LAST
Scene (the only) One

The scene is laid (Carefully) in a sumptious offi-
ce. The door has just burst open and the office
force is rushing in. You must remember that fools
rush in where angels fear to tread.

Door: Crash! Splinter! Etc.

Voice: Say! Who are you shoving?

’Nother Voice: I dunno. What's your name?

The force sit down to rest and assume a com-
fortable position for the day. The new man is
given a few instructions and stationed near the
door to receive all visitors. A visitor enters to use
the telephone.

Visitor (over phone): Hello. I want to talk to
Sis.

Voice (ditto): Sis who? ;

Visitor: Sis me! That’s who! Slam!

This visitor leaves in a huff and another comes
up in a Ford.

Visitor: Where’s the boss?

New Man: No, Ware's the stenographer.

Visitor: You’re smart aren’t you?

New Man: No, Smart hasn’t come down yet.

Visitor: Who’s the boss?

New Man: Yes, Hoo’s the boss.

Visitor : Who is he?

New Man: No, Izzy is the office boy.

Visitor: Is he here?

New Man: No, Izzy Watt.

Visitor: What’s his name?

New Man; Yes, Watt’s his name.

Visitor: How’s the boss today?

New Man: No, Howe’s the clerk.

Visitor: Well, who’s the boss?

New Man: Yes. R

Visitor: Say, have you heard of Santa Claus?.

New Man: I’m very glad to meet you.

Visitor: Listen, where’s the boss now?

New Man: Ware can’t be the boss, because
Hoo’s the boss.

Visitor: Is he? ;

New Man: I told you that Izzy is the office boy.

Visitor: Is the boss here?

New Man: No, the boss is Hoo.

Visitor: Well, can I see him?

New Man: Yes, I’m Hymn,

Visitor: Oh, you’re the boss.

New Man: No, Hoo’s the boss.

Visitor: I give up. Who’s the boss?

New. Man: Yes.

Visitor: Oh! He is, is he?

New Man: No, he is not Izzy.

Visitor: Why isn’t the boss here?

New Man: No, Whigh isn’t the boss.. Hoo’s the
boss.

Visitor: Well, who’s the boss?

New Man: Yes.

The visitor at this point drinks a mixture of
prussic acid and ground glass, cuts his throat,
shoots himself through the head, sets fire to his
clothes, ties a rope around his neck, and jumps
from a window on the top floor.

They all live happily ever after.

FINALE
Do your Christmas shopping early.

One Girl: “And then I told him I didn’t want to
see him anymore.”

Another: “What did he do?”

One Girl: “Turned out the light.”

College Prof. (leaving street car) : “This is rotten
service!”

Conductor: “What’s the matter? Couldn’t you
find a seat?”

Prof.: “Sure, I got a seat, but the trouble is
my wife had to stand up all the way.”

three. The idea came that all of the column might
be printed in black letters, but that would make
the column unique... . it’s enough that way now!
(In its way). Let it suffice that the device is used
chiefly for aesthetic affect, rather than as a diabolic
scheme with which to entice readers. This is not
a steel-trap however much it may resemble one.
