THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 4, 1930

Davidson Five and Ten
Years Ago

1925

The Wildcat eleven defeated Duke Uni-
versity, 26-0, in the final game of the year,
Six men played their last game for the
Wildcats and aided the Davidson team in
beating the Duke Blue Devils. By beating
Duke, Davidson tied with Wake Forest for
state honors.

Dick Grey and Jim Hendrix, Davidson
backs, brought many cheers from the 3,000
spectators by their great playing. Griggs was
the outstanding’ player on the Duke eleven.

Davidson scored a touchdown in each of
the first three quarters and made an extra
one in the second period. The Methodists
threatened in the last part of the first pe-
riod, but were unable to push the ball over
for a marker. This was the only time during
the game that the Blue Devils came near
scoring. Davidson outplayed their opponents
in every department of the game and made
it a day of celebrating on the campus. The
game will always remain in the minds of
the few that witnessed it.

1920

The Davidson Wildcat Band gave their
first concert in Monroe, N. C., at the court-
house there before a very large atillience.
The director was Mr. D. R. Freeman, who
was a very capable leader and who made a
wonderful success of the band. The first
part of the program, the band featured
classical music. In the last part of the con-
cert, they rendered many popular numbers,
Mr. White, accompanied by W. B. Nesbit,
sang Spanish folk songs. That night being
Davidson College Night, the band came

home to present the music needed for the
occasion.

Literary Societies

Philanthropic

The Philanthropic Literary Society will
meet December 9, and promises members
an unusually interesting evening with Dr.
Price H. Gwynn as the speaker of the eve-
ning. Dr. Gwynn will speak on “The Value
of a Literary Society,” and will stress the
advantages which may be derived, after col-
lege as well as during one’s stay at school,
from membership in an organization of a
literary nature. Second on the program will
be a debate, “Resolved: The United States
should not enter naval disarmament.”

Eumenean

Tuesday’ evening, December 9, the Eu-
menean Society. will offer three features on
its program. Marmaduke Norfleet: will speak
on “The Principles of Parliamentary Law,”
which should prove well worth one’s while.
Following this Roger Enloe will give a sum-
mary and discussion of current events and
the program will be ¢losed by a book re-
view by Bill Ward.

Psychology cannot classify fossils, nor can
theology extract aniline dyes from coal tar.
Botany can’t solve cross-word puzzles, and
etymology can’t drive nails into a board.—
Ted Robinson, columnist.

The American college man, especially if
he be clever and courageous enough to en-
ter one of the professions, is being sweated
and coerced into bachelorhood with a ven-

geance.—Henry R. Carey, in The North
American Review.

Forty alumni of the University of Ne-
braska were listed on the Nebraska state
ballots at the election this year, The major-
ity of these were graduated from the Col-
lege of Law and are now practicing law in

the various municipalities throughout the
State.

There is a risk in marrying the man who
says he will turn over a new leaf—Edith

College Calendar

Friday, Dec. 5—“Y” Campaign for
Barium Springs Orphanage will
begin at 9 P. M.

-Sunday, Dec. 6—Vesper Services at
6 P..M. J. R. McGregor of Lex-
ington, N. C., will speak.

Tuesday, Dec. 9—Literary Societies
in respective halls.

Wednesday, Dec. 10—Meeting of
Student Sunday School Teachers
in the reading room of the “Y”.
Dr. Harris E. Kirk will speak in
chapel December 8th to 12th in-

His general subject is

“Man’s Place in Nature and Be-

yond.”

>

clusive.

Former Student Is
Chicago Dramatist

Grandson of William J. Bryan Be-
comes Member of Shakespearian
Company in “Windy City”

Davidson people will be interested to learn
of the recent announcement that John Bryan,
grandson of the “Great Commoner,” and son
of the representative, Ruth’ Bryan Owen, is
now a member of a Shakespearian dramatic
company in Chicago. Young Bryan was at
one time a student at Davidson, having en-
tered with the class of 1926 and remaining
here slightly more than one year.

It is an odd fact to note that while a stu-
dent here, Mr. Bryan did not participate
in any kind of dramatic endeavor, but de-
voted most of his time to the writing of
poctry. It is reported in a dispatch from
Asheville that a book of Mr. Bryan’s verse
has been published which was. in the mak-
ing while he was studying here. Prof. FE. J.
Erwin, of the Efiglish Department, gave
Bryan considerable assistance in his writings
and criticized his works extensively at the
request of the young author.

_i

In connection with this, it should be of
direct as well as indirect interest to stu-
dents to hear of John Kirkpatrick, who has
written two Broadway hits which have met
with quite a degree of success. Mr. Kirkpat-
rick is the grandson of Dr. Kirkpatrick, who
was at one time president of this institution.

Juniors Leading in

Volley Ball Series

The first round of the competition in the
intramural volley ball has been completed
with the Junior class leading the pack with
three wins and no losses, followed by the
Seniors who have two victories and one
defeat, the Freshmen are third with one
game won and two games on the wrong side
of the ledger, the Sophomores, who won the
volley ball competition last year, bring up
the rear with no contests won and three
lost. The only game that the Seniors lost
was to the Juniors and the only victory for
the Freshmen was over the Sophomores.

It was the intention of Captain Norton G.
Pritchett that there “be only one round
played, but the players liked volley ball so
well that he decided to run two rounds off.
The second round started last Thursday and
will probably be completed some time today
or tomorrow.

The captains of the various class teams
are as follows: Seniors, Charlie Kraemer;
Juniors, Bennett Moseley; Sophomores,
Waite Fulton, and the Freshmen, Tom Law-
ther. These captains were appointed by
Heath Whittle, captain of last year’s track
team and now assistant/to Captain Pritchett.
Whittle has charge of the volley ball compe-
tition this year.

Volley ball is the third sport that has been
played between the classes. Football, won by
the Juniors, and basketball, now undecided
as the Sophomores and Juniors are tied with
five wins and one loss apiece, have practi-
cally been run off. This deadlock between
the Sophs and the Juniors in basketball will
be played some time this week.

Do we have to be mad at somebody be-
fore we can even begin to appreciate the

That Wildcat Offense

(Contin(ued from page 3)
Juniors 46—Freshmen 25
After being held on even terms for two
quarters, the Juniors cut loose in the second
half of their final game to score 34 points
and swamp the Freshmen, 46 to 25. The
Juniors’ 46 points were by far the best score
that has been turned in by any team during
the series.

The Juniors were the first to score, and,
by caging the ball for six points early in
the quarter, held a 6-3 lead. when the ‘first
period ended. Four field goals by McLain
and Marsh kept the Freshmen in the run-
ning during the second quarter. The Juniors,
by scoring three field goals, continued to
hold the lead, however, as the half closed,
12-11.

After the intermission, Martin and Mont-
gomery put the Juniors far ahead with sev-
en more field goals, but McLain, who seemed
to be about the: only Freshman that could
get through the Junior defense, managed to
keep the lead down a little by caging the
ball four times from the court. The Juniors
held the long end of a 26-19 score as the
third period ended. Martin and Arnold, at
the beginning of the final stanza, went on
a scoring spree that netted them 20 pdints
before the period ended. The Freshmen were
able to make only six points during the ex-
citement.

Martin, Junior center, took first honors
in scoring with 22 points. McLain, of the
Freshmen team, was next with 15 points to
his credit. The entire Junior team played
good basketball, especially in the last half,
while for, the Frosh, McLain, Marsh and
Evans were luminaries. Martin, by scoring
22 points, set a season record for individual
scoring. ;

DR. SIKES ADRESSES PHI BETA

(Continued from page 1)
be moulded to fit the masses for a happy,
contented, comfortable life. This will never
happen while progress and poverty go hand
in hand.”

Immediately preceding the public address,
the private exercises of the initiation were
held. A banquet honoring the new initiates
and the many visiting members of the na-
tional honorary scholastic society was held
after the address.

Five members of the Senior class of Da-
vidson were initiated at this time. The new
members are J. B. Black, Jr., Red Springs;
Kenneth M. Jackson, Birmingham, Ala.; H.
S. Munroe, Jr., Charlotte; W. C. Ragin,
Wilmington, and J. F. Preston, Korea. Al-
umni initiates present at the initiation includ-
ed Rev. H. S. Turner, D.D., 13, Staunton,
Va.; Prof. W. H. Mills, ’92, Clemson Col-
lege, S. C.; Dr. W. W. Morton, ’09, Lex-
ington, Va., and Dr. Fraser Hood, of the
Davidson faculty, honorary member. Two
other alumni, Major Harllee Morrison, ’16,
Dallas, Texas, and Mr. T. R. Neill, 16,
Niagara Falls, N. Y., were also elected to
the society, but were unable to be present
at the exercises.

re

Sitwell sad lot of the wunemployed?—Heywood| If democracy is to continue we must edu-
: Bround. cate for it—Prof. C. C. Peters. :
Davidson Men Are “DRUGS” “SODA”

_ Always Welcome
At

NORTON’S
BARBER SHOP

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

Benin 3) cg) YC OS) C7 NS IAC
One-dollar Fraternity and College Seal Paper

| A limited number of boxes
—0c—

WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.

“SUNDRIES”

?

New Mail Schedule

A new mail schedule has been
worked out that has been in effec!
since last Monday, December 1,
which is worthy of note. The only
radical change in the schedule is in
the time of departure of the night
mail, which formerly left at 7:55
p. m., and took all mail left at the
post office up to its closing time.
Under the new schedule, however,
the evening mail has to be in the
post office by 4:45 p. m. in order to
make the last train which leaves the
station at 5:25 p. m.

Mail left at the post office after
4:45 p. m. thus loses a whole day, so
this notice is being published for the «
benefit of those students and mem-
bers of the faculty who are accus-
tomed to dispatch letters after sup-
per.

J. Reuben Clark, appointed as successor
to Dwight W. Morrow as United States
Ambassador to Mexico, is a graduate of the
University of Utah. He is'a member of the
class of 1898. He taught school in Utah for
a number of years, took special graduate
work at Columbia University in New York,
and was assistant professor of law at George
Washington University, Washington, D. C.
Since 1906 he has been actively identified
with government affairs, holding many posi-
tions of importance on special national com-
missions.

Because of the large demands for: financial
aid this year on the part of college students,
loans to students by colleges are being put
more and more on a strictly business basis
this year, reports from colleges and’ uni-
versities throughout the country indicate.

From 20 to 25 per cent of the Freshmen
who entered American colleges and univer-
sities this year will drop out during their
first year, according to cumulative informa-
tion obtainable from the various institutions
of higher learning.

This fifth estate (the truly educated) is
composed of those having the simplicity to
wonder, the ability to question, the power to
generalize, the capacity to apply.—Poster in
Cleveland Public Library.

Art is an expression of type. The Anglo-
Saxon type leans, in music, toward the saxo-
phone, hymns and the male quartet.—Percy
Grainger.

3
g z & §
e 2. 3 = 3 e + te
Cede rete aati bla ee
Soo ee a 8 a eed ee
: 5 1828
Yard ined b SR ee ees 537 [361 |254 |239 |195 | 83 | 64 | 39 |26 | 8
Times ‘oaitted wan rig aaa Hone amt Ce ge ep 90 | 92 90 |59 |}50 |18 | 7) 4/8) 3 | Es
Average gain per play -....._-..-_--.---- 6.2! 3.9) 2.8) 4.1] 3.9] 4.6) 9.1/ 9.8] 3.3) 2.7| i
Passes attempted __---..---------------__ 93 | 27 1 | | 6 HH
Passes completed ---..-..-..-..---_-.-_- 26 6 2 ‘ Sa
Passes caught _-_-- a z 11 8 2 1 1 | 3 6 aa
Yards gained on passes __.-------------- 134 |128 | 18 9 20 | ‘ K38 | 91 6 ae
Average length of punts ----------------- | 30.6 | 37.9 | 2.8 or
Yards punts returned _____._-_.___-_---__ 166 | 15 30 /166 ‘ ‘3 is ew ee
Average length of kickoffs | 45.9 Pe
Yards kickoffs returned ---._-.---------_ 187 | 42 | 26 | 26 34 | 10 | 6 ae
Total yards gained --......._-._________- 1024 (546 (298 (304 |195 |283 | 84 | 39 |26 | 8 | 48 | 97 6
Touchdowns -__- (pap era espe apaeppyrepe $-|-3-|-2--2-|-2- 41 11 | 12 ‘
Points after touchdown ---__-_---------_- 3 | | §
Pr BONIS: Sooo pseee tess sooo lot eck | | i F
Safetiesy cee cacsecso ch iecus cok olen | |
Total points scored....-..-.....----_.-... 18/18 | 12 42/15 | 6 (ele| |s|6 jue 2 118
SOPHS AND JUNIORS tT: Education, whether within or without the
RET home, must impart knowledge specifically

useful to the individual according to his pe-
culiar nature, if it is to accomplish results
ethically valuable—Howard Madison Parsh-

ley.

It is far easier to be busy than to be
thoughtful—Dr. Hugh Black.

We scrawl experience on our brain and,
although we wash its memory in fresh ad-
venture, the ink has sunk indelibly to mark
our character foréver.—Charles S. Brooks.

The average Russian and the average
American speak a fundamental language and
appreciate the same wisecracks.—Vice-Presi-
dent Mooney, of General Motors.

Jack Crickard, Harvard, brought the first
Crimson score in the 13-13 tie between Har-
vard and William and Mary by scampering
85 yards across the goal line. =

Sam Rovinsky, Holy Cross, grabbed
Grossman’s punt and sprinted 60 yards down
the sidelines to score his team’s final touch-
down in a 32 to 20 victory over Rutgers.

Jack Wallace, Rice Institute, galloped 80
yards from scrimmage for a touchdown
against Sewanee in a 12 to 0 victory.

Bill Risk, Purdue, in the game as a sub-
stitute back, cantered 50 yards around end
in the first few minutes of play to score a
touchdown” as the Boilermakers walloped
Illinois, 25 to 0.

Jim Moore, Alabama, tossed a 50-yard
pass to Suther over the goal line in his team’s
defeat of Kentucky.

Reports from colleges in localities as far
apart as New York and Asizona, indicate
that far from being the gathering places
of pallid, intelligentsia, college campusses are
now practically health resorts.

With the objectives of “a progressive pro-
gram for the children in the kindergarten and
the first six grades, and: activities broaden-
ing the lives of young adults in the evenings,”
a demonstration school, supported by both
the state and the local board of education,
has been opened at Georgetown, Delaware.

The University of California has estab-
lished two new aviation departments, one of-
fering courses in aeronautical engineering,
and one dealing with the principles of com-
mercial aviation.

Davidson Theatre

Monday and Tuesday, December 1, 2
“DuBarry’s Woman of Passion”

with
NORMA TALMAGE
Wednesday, December 3

“Lottery Bride”
JEANETTE McDONALD

Thursday,

December 4

“Laughter”

with
NANCY CARROLL
Friday, December 5
“Remote Control”
seh

wi ;
WILLIAM HAINES

