THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 20, 1930

Week-End Guests

edie
Be
mtd

Phi Gamma Delta : Misses Lucy Follin,
Margaret Gorrell and Ida Clinton Gallo-

way, of Winston-Salem; Anne McLaur- |
ine, Edith Cochran, Sally Cothran, Ade- |

line Wooley and Alice Cowles Barringer,
of Charlotte; Kitty Moore and Alice Cald-
well, of Salem College; Lucy Coleman and
Lib Monteith, of Columbia, S. C.; Mary

| “Duke” Overpowers
“N. C. State” 6 To 9

Duke was again victorious last Wednes-
\day, when they defeated N. C. State by
the score of 6-0. The game was very well
played by both teams but it lacked the
pep and fire that was shown against
| Carolina. Duke had the advantage from
{the opening whistle, keeping most of the
|play in State territory, but once in the
|shadow of their goalposts the Wolfpack

Brandon Vaughn, of Statesville; Clellie | seemed to take on-new life and push the
Lucas, of Salisbury; Mary Draughn, of | fighting Blue Devils back.

Dunn, N. C.; Dorothy Self, of G. C. W.; |

and Julia Reed Roseborough, of Jackson- | The came ‘in.the final session
ville, Fla. Messrs. John Foster and Charlie | when Duke carried the ball to State’s 11-
Creech, of Winston-Salem, N. C., and Paul |yard line by a series of off tackle plays.

score

Boucher, of Carolina.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Misses Edna Mc-
Coy, Catherine Gossett, Ida Bell and Sissy
Stokes, of Charlotte; Mary Stringfield,
Askins Ivey, Flora McNeill, and Angie
Ray Bryant, of Converse, and Fay Cox,
of Duke; Messrs. Bill Flow and Frank
Cannon, of Concord and Bill McCuen, of
Laurens, S. C.

Pi Kappa Alpha: Misses Johnsye East-
wood, of Red Springs, N. C.; Virginia
Kelley, of Charlotte; Eleanor Hottenstein,
of Sweetbriar; Delia Merimmen, of N. C.

| State took the ball on downs but fumbled
/the ball on their first attempt to advance.
| Duke recovered the ball and Mills tried

an end run but gained nothing on the
play. After an unsuccessful off tackle play,

Fleagle took the ball around left end for
| the touth down. :
| Fleagle played a good game for Duke,
| while McQueen and King were not lack-
jing in their support of the Blue Devils’
|standard. Clark and Fraley were out-
| standing in the stubborn defense that the
| Wolfpack put up.

C. W.; Kathleen Gibson, of Laurinburg,

The lineup was as follows:
S. C.; Mary Lee Lindsay, of Taylorsville,

N, Ci; ‘Marie Moriaty, of NGC W,;|_ DUKE Position Ny Gosia

Helen Brawley, of Statesville; Mary | Steele eden baer Ese ep Nee ee ssa

Craig, of Charlotte; arid Wilna Slow, of | : L. B.

Greensboro; Messrs. Buster Mathews, MGRBUYEH Soeeseer = Pars Rear one eat

Charley Harrison, John Akers, Carson, es

Ford and Clement Penn. | elec hetel sesee cee ; aie mica Lie
Kappa Alpha: Misses Martha Morrison, | Gardner _---------- oe Eres McConnell

of High Point, N. C.; Eleanor Hayes and | Cc

Jean Marion, of Charlotte; Lucy Currie | parker See oc ere Wilson

and Susan Moffett, of Davidson; Pat Mil- | R. G.

ler, of Sedgefield, N. C.; Sarah Erkman, PNA lifiS: one fee pene Caeeees Ross

of Hendersonville, N. C.; Lib West, of | R. T.

Spartanburg, S. C.; Hattie Scarborough, | Copje _____---------------------- Cannon

of Columbia, S. C.; and Mary Paterson, | ye R. E.

of Charlotte; Messrs. Bud Guthrie, Bran- | Clark
don Smith and Dutch Wearn.

DOCTOR McALLISTER

(Continued from page 1)
to God, and will be
quickly your faith increases.

you surprised how
“If faith is the foundation of Christianity,
we might say that love is its cornerstone.
If we would have more love, we must prac-
tice what we have., The trouble with most
of us is that we*keep it bottled up.

“The thing above all others that most men
need to develop is Christian activities. The
man who says he can't teach Sunday School,
can't lead in prayer, can’t do personal work
will find that if he goes ahead and tries he
not only can do these things but gets great
pleasure from them, Once a young man who
was asked to teach a Sunday School class
declined saying that he did’ not have any
talent along that line, but later after con-
tinued insistance he agreed to try. He became
interested in Christiangqork and soon be-
came superintendent of the Sunday School.
Then he resigned his job and became “Y”
secretary for the railroad, Soon he was ye
secretary for all the railroads in West Vir-
ginia, then chief Y. M. C. A. secretary for

the Pennsylvania Railroad in their New

Peabody cscoco-coceeccee soo foo 6 sce King
Rk. HB.

Flynn - Higa aa ye aes _ Fleagle
L. HB

Fraley evade podeua ats McQueen
IF, B,

that
COLD and COUGH
take

oid

Phe “QUICK RELIEF” Cold’ Remedy tor
College Stadente, sold by e College Studest

Jim Galleway
U.A8.C.g

YOUR URUGGIST
HAS COLDEX

York Terminal. This man was none other
than Jim Rice, written up in the American
Magazine because of his splendid services to
the doughboys during the war. He was no
extra-ordinary man, only after great persua-
sion he tried to use what talent he had. There
are many just like him or even with greatet
possibilities who never amount to very much
beeause they never make the first attempt.

But we must not forget the last part of
Christ’s warning. Neglect means loss! You
don't have to cut and bruise your muscles
to make them useless; just neglect them. It
is not necessary for a mat or his enemies to
actively destroy his trade for his business
to fail; just let him neglect it. A father
doesn't have to actually lead his son into
wickedness to ruin his life: just neglect
him, The surest way to rob fine character
of all its goodness is neglect. Neglect means
certain death to all a’ man's opportunities.

Must we be followed around for the rest

Davidson Ten Years

Ago

The North Carolina State Volunteer
Conference opened last Friday, night with
a downpour of rain calculated to dampen
the spirit as well as the garments of any
except the indefatigable delegates. Most
of the visitors reached Davidson on the
eight o'clock train, and waded from the
tothe church where
ence started at eight o'clock.

station the confer-

of our lives by the ghosts of buried oppor-
tunities. or will we hear the welcome words
of our saviour: ‘Well done, thou good and
faithful servant. Thou hast been faithful in
a few things. I will make thee ruler over
many things. Enter thou into the joy of
thy Lord.”

parations.

SS

We are able to offer you, for a limited time a
“Two for the Price of One,” on Jergens pre-

ZA OO bury §
- IAL CREAM

Beta Theta Pi: Misses Mary Emma
Hearst and Lila Steele, of Statesville;
Mamie Hines LaRoyne, of Converse;

“Dee” Hall, of Queens; Jane Morrison, |
Brantley Nichols and Catherine Tucker, |
of Charlotte; Anne Faysoux Johnson, of
Statesville.

Phi Delta Theta: Misses Sally Couch, |
of Charlotte; Annetta Robertson, of |
Sweetbriar; Béssie Halt, of Queens; and |
Pat Somerset, of Converse. , |

Kappa Sigma: Misses Lib Padgett, of
Columbia, S. C.; Lou Best, of Warsaw, N. |
C.; Frances Hamilton, Elizabeth Thomp-
son, Lucy Dunn and Ethel Hall, of N. C.
C. W.; Messrs. Gene Hoover, “Peanut”
Ridubon, Ben DeOrmond and A. H. Me- |
Gurk. |

Pi Kappa Phi: Misses Grace Cowles, of
N. Y. C.; Alice Carr, Louise Melchor, |
Margaret Melchor and Nancy Howard, of |
Mooresvillé ; “Teen” Thompson, of Besse-
mer City; Frances and Sophie Marshall,
of Rock Hill, S. C.; Dorothy Skinner,, of
Charlotte; Betty Roberts, of Savannah, |
Ga.; Mary Neale Hobbs, of Statesville;
Eleanor Best, of Fremont, N. C.; Sallie |
Green, of Columbia College; and Edwina |
Williams, of Salisbury. 6 of

Theta Upsilon Omega: Ellen
Hawkins, Kitty Brown, Eileen Brown, Na-
talie Emery, Janis Heidacher and Mildred |
Beasley, of Charlotte; Harriet Berry, of |
Griffin, Ga.; Sarah Graves, of Salem, |
Helen Flowers, of Hickory, N. C., and |
Louise Ruff, of Converse. ; |

Pyramid Club: Misses Dorothy Wooley |
and Elizabeth Howe, of Charlotte. |

Misses Ruby Brantley, Mitchell Col- |
lege; Eleanor Sherrill, Gastonia; Sally |
Snyder, Flora Macdonald College; |
Blanche Purcell, N. C. C. W.; Mary Gaf- |
ney, Davidson; Lois Wimbiah, Danville,
Va.; Margaret McCoy, Charlotte were
also guests of Davidson men during the
past week-end.

|
|

Engraved by
JON HELD dR

Misses

CRIED

the ice-pack.

Automobile Afire.

Driving along . . -
9% you smell smoke . . «
‘<) you investigate .. . |
engine afire . . . later |
the remains.
However, if you |
have fire insurance, |
the policy remains, § |
too, to indemnify you for the loss of |
your investment. ‘ ;
Let us quote rates and Le nail oo
4 e covering agains
4 square JET, COLLISION, PROP.
ERTY DAMAGE losses. s

It’s safer to have insurance—
and not need it!

7

On your Radio... OLD GOLD—PAUL WHITEMAN HOUR, Paul Whi

I)
D>,
yy

\
to 4
a i.
\ \j x
———4 =

foe

0

better have ’em change to it and save yourself a lot of unnec-
’ essary alarm, my gal.”’

OLD GOLD

FASTEST GROWING CIGARETTE IN HI

AL, OFF YOUR DOG
YVONNE WADDINGHAM-WA

For Yvonne’s feeble |strength was spent after an hour’s flight across

“Them ain’t dogs, woman!” laughed the sheriff. “Them’s your boy
friends. They bark like bloodhounds because they don’t smoke OLD
GOLD, the honey-smooth cigarette made from queen-leaf tobacco

STORY...

DDINGHAM

NOT A COUGH IN A CARLOAD

tra... every Tuesday, 9 to 10 P. M., Eastern Standard Time

Independence Trust Co.
Insurance Department |
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

