r

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 17, 1930

After Graduation --- Engineering?

Engin

eering Offers Many Branches

To Students Choosing A Life Work

Excellent Coenpindstion is Offered
to Men of Marked Ability
in this Field

What Would Be My Opportunities as an
Engineer?

Your opportunities in this profession lie
in many widely different fields and with-
in each field you may ultimately specialize
in production, administration, or selling,
according to your interests, abilities and
opportunities. A brief survey of some of
the most common fields is given below:

Aeronautical Engineering

“It is entirely probable that aviation
will take its place among the greatest
industries of the world,” said Col. Charles
A, Lindburgh, at a St. Louis Chamber of
Commerce luncheon.

Aeronautical Engineering is the young-
est of the specialized branches of engi-
neering, and it, in turn, is divided into the
fuselage division and the engine work
division. ,

This branch of engineering is in an ac-
tive pioneering stage and offers attractive
opportunities to qualified young men.

Chemical Egineering

The chemical industry in the United
States has grown rapidly for the last
twenty years, especially since 1915; there
is every reason to believe that this growth
will continue. The demand in the past
for well-trained chemical engineers has
been greater than the supply, except for
a temporary set-back folowing the period
of abnormal expansion of the industry
during the late war.

The Chemical Engineer should be a
well-trained chemist, with a knowledge
of engineering that will, enable him to
install and operate chemical plants.

Civil Engineering

Civil Engineering in its inception em-
braced all engineering not included undef
Military Engineering, Today, however, it
comprises Municipal Engineering, with its
problems of water supply, sewage dis-
posal, and highway construction; Trans-
portation Engineering, including the
building of railways, canals, docks, and
tunnels; Hydraulic Engineering, with its
questions of water- -power development
and irrigation; Structural Engineering, in-
cluding the design of bridges, steel and
concrete buildings, roofs, foundations, and
retaining walls. A choice may be made
from these different branches of civil en-
gineering, either because of personal taste
or for reasons of opportunity.

Electrical Engineering

Some electrical engineers specialize in
the manufacture’ of electrical apparatus;
others in the application and utilization of
this apparatus in transportation, power
plants, illumination, communication by:
telegraph, telephone or radio. Those en-
gineers especially gifted in originality and
scientific imagination specialize in re;
search into the future possibilities of the
application of electrical energy.

Industrial Engineering

There is a need and growing demand
for executives and managers of industrial
and commercial enterprises who are train-
ed in both engineering and. business prin-
ciples and practices. The industrial en-
gineer fills this need.

The majority of the successful indus-
trial engineers today have had previous
experience as. mechanical engineers. In
fact, mechanical engineers training
is highly desirable, if not essential, for
anyone going into this field; it should be
combined, of course, with a theoretical
knowledge of business. principles and
practices.

Marine Engineering

Marine Engineering has to do with the
‘design and installation of marine equip-
ment. A Marine Engineer must have,
therefore, a knowledge of naval architec-
thre as well as of electrical and mechani-
cal engineering. A liking for sea life is an
important factor in success in this field.

_The opportunities in this branch of en-

gineering are rather limited.
Mechanical Engineering

American machinery has fattained afl

world-wide reputation. Its invention, de-

sign, construction and use in manufacture |

- @nd transportation is the work of the

"Mechanical Engineer. You may choose

between two main fields: the field of
manufacture—development and codnstruc-
tion of machinery for producing articles
of commerce and for genrating the power
for their operation; or the field of trans-
portation—the development of the loco-
motive, automobile, motor truck, tractor,

aeroplane, and motor boat.

Metallurigical Engineering

Metallurgical Engineering is closely as-
sociated with Mining Engineering. A
Metallurigist extracts metals from ores,
refines these metals, and, if necessary,
combines them with other metals or sub-
stances to produce alloys. The extensive
use of metals or alloys so produced has
been an important factor in the rapid in-
dustrial development of this country.

Mining Engineering

The profession of Mining Engineering
offers an attractive field for vigorous
young men; good health is essential. The
work of the Mining Engineer lies at the
very basis of our industrial civilization;
he guides the production of coal and of
all the metals, as well as of many other
minerals. He may specialize in the extrac-
tion of minerals from the earth and upon
the economics of their disposal or in
geological work as applied to mining.

What Compensation May I Expect?

An answer to this question is quoted
from a 1924 report of the International
Labour Office at Geneva on the status
and employment of engineers and chem-
ists :

“It is difficult to generalize about sal-
aries, as the workers under consideration
occupy positions of widely varying char-
acter, some exercising functions of man-
agement, while others are employed in a
subordinate capacity; some are employed
in ‘large. industrial concerns, others: in
small workshops; some again are at the
beginning of their career, while others
have long experience behind them. It is
important to note that all engineer have
to undergo probation; during this period
a certified engineer is paid no more than
a manual worker and mu§t’prove his abil-
ity, particularly his power of leadership.
Once he has done this, his position
changes rapidly and completely.”

With direct reference to salary condi-
tions of engineers in.the United States the
report goes on to say:

“It is more difficult to convey a general
idea of salaries in the United States than
in almost any other ‘country. A beginner
who wishes to’ obtain training and ex-
perience may accept $1,000 a year, while
the! leading mechanical engineer on a
railway may earn $40,000 to $50,000 a year.
The ordinary engineer may earn anything
from $5,000 to $25,000.”

This report also, discusses sources of
income other than salary which are avail-
able to engineers, especially the income
which may aécrue from. patent rights.

Some corporations have a policy of em-
ploying a cross-section of an engineering
school’s graduate body; that is, they
choose graduates with a scholastic stand-
ing from faith to high and place them in
work adapted to their particular abilities

Bulletins

Catalogues of the leading schools
of Engineering on the Vocational
Guidance table in .the entrance of
the “Y” :rooms. Anyone interested
is urged to read these catalogues,
but please use them in the “Y”
rooms, and return them to the table
as there will probably be others who
will want to read them.

and scholastic record. Such corporations
offer an initial salary approximating $1,-
50 a year, with regular increases for a
year or two, after which the increases
depend entirely upon the showing of the
individual engineer.

Other corporations accept only the
“cream” ofthe: graduate body and offer
an initial salary nearer $2,000 a year} with
regular increases for two or three years,
and increases thereafter acording to ca-
pacity and ability demonstrated. The
higher salaries are paid to engineers who
possess the ability to handle larger groups
of men,

LONG ENDS HIS TERM

_ (Continued from page 1)
advocating radical movements, yet Long has

not been hampered with a foolish conserva-
tism.

Long has given the student body a news-
paper which has been peculiarly consistent
and steady. Although it has not attracted
attention through flashy or spectacular treat-
ment, neither has it been subjected to let-
downs or ‘slumps. The Davidsonian has had
a successful year.

In addition to being Editor-in-Chief of
The Davidsonian, Long is an active partici-
pant in many campus activities. He belongs
to Omicron Delta Kappa, ‘and is a mam-
ber of Delta Pi Kappa, Sigma Upsilon, | e
International Relations Club, the varsity W-‘
bating’ team, and other organizations. He is
a member of both Student Council and “Y’!
Cabinet and is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha
social fraternity.

SENIORS PROMOTING

(Continued from page 1)
never “has One been undertaken on such a
large scale.

Various committees appointed by W. B.
McGuire, Senior President, are at work
now on phases of this affair designed to
touch every side of student life. The date
cannot be announced at present due to the
elections still in progress. Complete plans
and time will be made public within the next
few days.

TENNIS SQUAD

(Continued from page 1)

personnel of the team is as follows: 1, F. W.
Johnston; 2, A. N. Halverstadt; 3, E. Z.
Dubose; 4, G. R. Fain; 5, W. L. Poe; 6,
S. L. McLean. Johnston and Halverstadt
play number one in the doubles; Dubose and
Fain number two, and Poe and M¢cLean
number three. The results of these matches
are not known as The Davidsonian goes to
press. :

“DRUGS”

CANDY _ -:-

WHITE DRUG CO.

“PRESCRIPTIONS oT

“SODA”

FLOWERS

John Hays ee Discusses the
New Engineering as to Advant-
ages and Shortcomings

After this glance at the achievements of
antiquity, it seems a little startling to say
that engineering is still in its infancy. Yet
this is undoubtedly true. The develop-
ment of the profession during the last
century is out of all proportion to its
progress during all the preceding ages,
and the discoveries made during this
period have opened vistas of infinite
length in all directions. The railroad, the
wide use of steel, the methods of con-
struction which depend on the employ-
ment of steam machinery, the use of elec-
tricity for light, heat, power, and com-
munication, the internal combustion en-
gine, the submarine and the aeroplane—
all are products of an age of unparalleled
discovery. Yet no one may assume that
any one of these marvelous devices has

has come the realization of unlimited pos-
sibilities as well as of endless ramifica-
tions. The telegraph suggested the tele-
phone, both led to the wireless, the bal-
loon made possible the dirigible, which, in
turn, suggested the heavier-than-air ma-
chine, made feasible by the invention of
the gas engirie. Throughout all this prog-
ress we see a succession of ideas breed-
ing and each multiplying tenfold} of new
necessity giving birth to new invention,
until today we are confronted with so
many possibilities that we have not any-
thing like the requisite number of en-
gineers to realize them. f

— ee .

The mining engineer now has before
him the vast, almost untouched resources
of the East—of Siberia, of China, of Ko-

‘rea;as well as some of the more backward

countries of Europe. South America, so
little known to most of the people of the
United States, is a vast storhouse of treas-
ure of every sort and description. The
opening up of: all this offers, of course,
equal opportunity to railroad, civil,
marine, electrical and chemical engineers.
In South America the railroads are still in
so primitive a state that a standard guage
track has not been adopted and communi-
cation between the various republics is
consequently very difficult. Never was an
engineer offered a brighter opportunity.

Again, reconstruction ‘in the devastated
countries of Europe still demands the
work’ of trained engineers of all kinds.
Consideration of the difficult economic

attained perfection. With every invention |

Recent Discoveries Open Vast Field
Of Untouched Resources Everywhere

problems which confront European na-
tions has led them to realize that manu-
facturing must be greatly increased. In
France new textile mills, sugar plants,
rubber and automobile factories are being
built. All this work requires experts in
mechanics and construction. The manu-
facture of such new substances as syn-
thetic rubber, the making of dyes and
drugs which the late war made necessary
in this country, has created opportunities
for the chemical engineer and brought
out an entirely new phase in the profes-
sion to which there is apparently no limit
of usefulness.

An engineer is thrown into contact with
about every type of business and profes-
sion and into the comradeship of every
condition of men, Again, engineering often
takes a man into foreign lands. Now it
seems to me that the engineer, who has
been in charge of public work involving
great responsibility, is especially fitted for
statesmanship in the broadest sense of the
word. He knows men of every kind.

These are a few of the advantages of
the profession, as I see them. Now for
the shortcomings. There is a present lack
of appreciation of the real service of the
trained engineer. The financial compensa-
tion which the engineer has received has
been far beneath his deserts. The engineer
has hitherto labored under the disadvan-
tage of a one-sided education. It would
be a good thing if every prospective en-
gineer could take a regular college course
first, but as every one does not have this
opportunity, I would urge that the techni-
cal schools meet the problem themselves
and endeavor to offset the deficiencies of
a one-sided education.

’CATS PLACE IN FIVE EVENTS

(Continued from Page 1)

Joe McCall was bested in the broad jump
only by Ed Hamm, Georgia Tech’s world
champion jumper, who set a new relay rec-
ord with a distance of 24 feet 9.5 inches.
McCall followed, jumping 22 feet 11.5 inches.
This broke his previous record of 22 feet
8 inches, which he set at the University of
South Carolina.

In the medley relay the Wildcats, repre-
sented by Brohard, Norton, Neal and Laf-
ferty, took third place, being beaten by Mis-
sissippi A. & M. and Georgia.

In the meet six new southern relay rec-
ords were set, four of them having been set
by the University of North Carolina’s won-
der team. The Tar Heels piled up a total
of five first places to lead in the meet.

Special Designs

DELUXE ICE CREAM

At Students’ Store and Dealers

MOORESVILLE ICE CREAM COM PANY

Mooresville, N. C.

Brick. Eskimo Pies

Davidson Theatre

THE BEST PICTURES ~
OBTAINABLE

: Are Shown
FOR YOUR ENTERTAINMENT

-- i

