THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 13, 1930

Week-End Guests

The following guests were entertained
during the week-end by the various social
fraternities :

Beta Theta Pi:

Misses Frances Whitman, Converse ; ‘Anna
Whitman, Hollins; Martha Anne Wells,
Concord; Caroline Hardin, Decatur ; Frances
Lineberger, Belmont; Lucy Cunningham,
Welch, W. Wa.; Louise Spangler, Peters-
town, W. Va.; Ruth Spangler, Peterstown,
W. Va.,

Pi Kappa Alpha:

Misses Helen Brawley, Charlotte; Louise
Harrison, Greensboro; Christine Hudson,
Salisbury; Mary A. Craig, Charlotte; Eliza-
beth Fraley, Statesville; Caroline High-
smith, Gastonia; Babe Taylor, New York;
Johnnie Babbet, Knoxville.

Visitors: Dick Royal; Jim McNair, U.
N.C.; Dick Marshal, U.N.C.; Sonny Mc-
Coy, U.N.C.; Ed Purdy, Dunn; Billy Hunt-
inback, Dunn; Charley Harrison, Greens-
boro; H. R. Smith, Greensboro; Boyd Mor-
ris, Greensboro; Lloyd Luttz, State; Mur-
phy Judd, Fayetteville.

Kappa Alpha:

Misses Sarah: Nolen, Franklin, Tenn.;
Susie May Ayers, Spring “Hill, Tenn.; Pat
Miller, Greensboro; Martha Morrison, High
Point; Penelope Cannon, Concord; Ann F,
Johnson, Barium Springs

Kappa Sigma:

Misses Romaine Clark, Converse; Cappa
Eagles, Converse; Catherine Fulghum, Con-
verse; Peter Whitehead, Converse; Véra
Keller, Chatham Hall; Elizabeth Keller,
Randolph Macon; Julia Marsh, High Point;
Elizabeth Thompson, Davidson; Fritz Ham-
ilton, N.C.C.W.; Loraine Davis, N.C.C.W. ;
Ruth Davis, Wilmington; Hattie Johnson,
Wilmington; Brantley Nichols, Charlotte;
“Teen” Thompson, Dunn; Nell Hill, Spar-
tanburg; Bebe Hyde, Salem.

Visitors: Elmore Bellingrath, Montgom-
ery, Ala.; Prof. Hugh T.: Shockley; Joe
Cranford; Sam Black, Albemarle; Wick
Black, Salisbury; John Davis, Chapel Hill;
Jimmy Gray, Chapel Hill; Henry Rankin,
N. C. State; Hoot Gibson, Pennington Gap,
W. Va.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

Misses Rockie Prince, Laurinburg; Mar-
garet Blue, Fayetteville, Elinor McKinnon,
Hartsville; Louise Melchor, Mooresville.

Pi Kappa Phi:

Misses Margaret Manson, Greenville;
Margaret Laurence, Rome, Ga.; Nancy Cox,
Raleigh; Betsy Lee, Freemont; Elizabeth
Triplette, Pine Bluff, Ark.; Elizabeth Mc-
Clary, Roanoke, Va.; Mildred Davis, Rich-
mond, Va.; Estelle Mangum, Marion; Vir-
ginia Hamer, Baltimore, Md.; Louise Sal-
omon, Greenville, S. C.; Sylvia Woods,
Marion, S. C..

Visitors: Scott Brown,
Rooney Boone, Greensboro;
Mooresville.

Phi Gamma Delta:

Misses Margaret Gorrell, Winston-Salem;
Mary Sammons, Knoxville; Barbara Lou
Carden, Knoxville; Mary Moses, Knoxville;
Rosalie Wiley, Salisbury; Mary Cannon,
Concord; Nancy Watts, Charlotte; Martha
Irvin, Franklin; Mrs. Wm. Rule, Knoxville.

Theta Upsilon Omega :

Misses Natalie Emory, Charlotte; Edith
Storm, Charlotte; Kitty Brown, Charlotte;
Eileen Brown, Charlotte; Ellen Hawkins,
Lharlatte; Sara Turner, Atlanta; Elizabeth
Gatewood, N.C.C.W.; Casey Ingram, High
Point; Katherine Lyerby, Salem; Mary
Boyd, Macon, Ga.; Sarah Keith, Macon,
Ga.; Janis Herdicher, Charlotte.

Pyramid Club:

Misses Jane Morrison, Charlotte; Dot
Wooley, Charlotte; Ruth Stikeleather, Con-
verse; Elizabeth Lowe, Charlotte; Doug
Rankin,. Charlotte; Emily Fraser, Charlotte.

Chattanooga ;
Billy Mills,

Alpha Omega:

Misses Christie Maynard, Winston-Salem ;
Carolyn Jerney, Tryon; Jean McFadyen,
Winston-Salem.

Phi Delta Theta:

Misses Vivian Wallser, Randolph Macon;
Mary Jane Whuton, N.C.C.W.; Elizabeth
Wilson, Salisbury; Helen Knight, Greens-
boro; Eleanor Kincaid, Charlotte; Mary
Beach, Queens; Anna Preston, Salem; Sarah
Lee, Augusta, Ga.; Anita Murphy, Atlanta.

Davidson Five Years
Ago

on its Eastern trip as the Wildcats won
eleven to six from N. C. State and lost on
Saturday, two days later, to the powerful
Naval Academy team by a score of twenty
seven to nothing. The victory over the Tech-
men marked the opening of Davidson’s in-
tercollegiate season on the mat, tho having
won two matches previously from the Con-
cord ‘Y’ team.

With intermittent showers of rain falling
all Monday..afternoon the pitchers and catch-
ers of the school answered Coach Younger’s
call for the first practice of the season.
“Dutch” Hengeveld will have charge of the
few weeks of éxtra work that the Davidson
coaches are planning to run the batteries
thru.

The attention of the entire Sophomore
class is now being centered on arrangements
for the annual class banquet. Plans began
to take a definite form when President Bill
Covington called a meeting of the class
Monday morning and the real steps were
decided on that are to be taken in arranging
this important event.

For Vesper services last Sabbath evening,
the ‘Y’ meeting committee secured as the
speaker on of the best known workers in the
state Y. M. C. A. work. Mr. J. Wilson
Smith, of Charlotte, gave a concise discus-
sion of the workability of the Christian reli-
gion in individual liyes. Mr. Smith is the
state ‘Y’ secretary and is~prominent in Y.
M. C. A. activities among the men and young
men of this entire section.

From all reports, the fourteenth annual
conference of the N. C. Volunteer’s Union,
to be held at Chapel Hill, February 20, 21,
and 22, will be one of the best in the history
of the organization. It commences Friday
evening and lasts through Sunday evening.
The conference was invited to Chapel Hill
by the University ‘Y’ and they are putting
forth every effort te make the meetings a
marked success. As this is the only time of
the year the Volunteers have a “get together”
and on account of th¢ interesting programs
that have been arranged, a record breaking
conference is expected.

Davidson Ten Year
Ago

Like a thunderbolt out of a clear sky came
the flu epidemic upon Davidson last Monday.
Within twenty hours after the first case
there were twelve victims at the infirmary,
and within fourty-eight hours the infirmary
was full and Louisana dormitory was turned
into an emergency ward. Fourty men had
reported and were found to have Spanish
Influenza before the course of the epidemic
was abated. It ceased almost as quickly as it
had started for only three new cases had
been reported since last Friday. The type of
Influenza has proven to’ be very mild and
little danger is anticipated. :

The Wildcats failed to shake the hoo-doo
in the cage clash with Clemson Tigers, and
went down by a score of 28 to 26. The game
was clean and some streaks of fast play were
noticeable at certain stages especially at the
beginning of the second half, when Davidson
opened up with a terrific offensive.

a
On last Thursday evening at 7:30 o'clock
at the Selwyn Hotel, Charlotte, N. C., the
management and the staff of “The Davidson-
ian” gave their annual banquet for the year
1919-20. Under the management of C. J.

fon

Freshmen Overcome

W. & L. Yearlings

Last Period Rally Wins For Laird’s
Quint

In the first game of the Virginia road
trip the Wildkittens from Davidson defeated
the Washington and Lee Freshmen by the
score of 35 to 23. The game was played in
Lexington, Virginia, on Wednesday, Febru-
ary 5. By this victory the Wildkittens in-
creased their winning streak to seven straight
games while they broke the long winning
streak of the little Generals. The game was
featured by the last half rally of the Wild- |
kittens who scored eight baskets in the last
five minutes of play. This rally was led by
Davidson's diminutive forward, Allen. Rog-
ers, and his running mate, ‘Mac’ Manson.

The stars for the Wildkittens in this game
were Allen Rogers and “Mac” Manson, for-
wards for the little Cats. Together they shot
twenty-four of Davidson's thirty-five points.
Rogers captured sixteen points, while Man-

Attention Seniors

Get your girl’s name in to Cecil
Lawrence before Saturday, Feb-
ruary 15. Only ten days before the
big week-end. Do your part to put
your class over.

>

V. P. I. Fresh Defeat.
Wildkittens, 26-21

Last Friday the Wildkittens of Davidson
lost their second straight game of the season
to the V. P. I. Freshmen in Blacksburg, Vir-
ginia, by the score of 26-21. The game was
featured by the close guarding of both teams
in the first half, the score at the end of the
first half being: Davidson Freshman 11,
V. P. I, Freshmen 9. The high scorer of the
game was Hall, brilliant guard of V. P. I.,
who had fourteen points to his credit. Man-
son of Davidson was second with eight points.

son gathered eight. All the Wildkittens |
worked together fine in this game and clear- |
ly outplayed the little Generals, who were |
favored to win.

Despite their defeat the Washington & |
Lee team played a fine game. The rally of |
the Wildkittens, however, was too much for |
them and they had to be contented with a|
defeat from a better team. Their ‘star was |
Jarratt, running guard, who collected twelve
points of his teams twenty-three, He was a
constant menace to the Davidson forwards |
and to the Davidson guards.

The lineup of the two teams are as fol-
lows:
Davidson
Rogers, f (16)
Mansonite(o)iecussecsasee Cummings, f (2)
Hochs1h (O)eo-sscceanu Holebrooke, ¢ (5)
iércenG3 (0) sccecauucaueece Jarratt, g¢ (12)
Bethardec. (2) csoctos at lccee Violet, g (2)
Peabody, g (2)

Wagner, g (1)

Referee: Smith.

W. & L.
Crowl ,f (2)

COMPLETE DISARMAMENT

(Continued from Page 1)
and a parity on cruisers, will not be passed
according to his belief. Although the cruisers
may be cut down, Doctor McConnell feels
sure that France, Japan, and Italy will not
consent to the abolition of submarines. These
latter countries depend on submarines too
much for naval protection to their nearby
possessions, and France, not a principal naval
power finds submarines an economical means
of naval protection, he pointed out.

Doctor McConneil strongly advocated the

There were no individual stars for the
Wildkittens, but the whole team played a
brilliant game despite their defeat. This is
the first time this season that the V. P. I.
Freshman have failed to score at least 42

points in a game; it can well be seen that]

the Wildkittens put up a great fight against
heavy odds. V. P. I. is considered by many
the best Freshman team in the state of Vir-
ginia and one of the best in the South.
The star for V. P. I. was Hall. He was
a constant threat to the whole Davidson

team by reason of his brilliant guarding and
his more brilliant shooting. The whole V. P.
I. team played a wonderful game, clearly
outplaying the Wildkittens, and deserving to
come out of the fray with a win.

The Freshmen and the Varsity are now
about even on the season’s record. The Var-
sity has lost two games, won by one poin
the Freshmen’s record shows the same re-
sult. The Charlotte “Y” defeated the Var-
sity, 39-38, and Furman defeated them.
Roanoke College defeated the Freshmen 22-
21; and the V. P. I. Freshmen beat them by
the score of 26-21.

The lineups ofthe two teams are as fol-
lows:
Davidson
Rogétsy £(5) scescoclssccssce Palmer, f (0)
Mansonjote (8) sscescocceuesce Wolfe, f (5)
Pierce, c (3)---------------Seamon, f (3)
Peabody, g (5)------------- Bosley, g (4)
Wagner, g (0)--------------- Hall, g (14)
Bernard, g (0)

Score at the end of the first half: David-
son Fresh 11, V. P. I. Fresh 9.

Referee Blair.

Viel

Matthews, business manager, and with the
aid of the staff, one of the most delightful
and successful banquets ever given by a
Davidson College organization was staged
and carried out in every detail. The dinner
was excellent in preparation and service,
constituting ten courses in all.

The “QUICK RELIEF” Cold Remedy for
| College Stadente, sold bya Collen: Stedent

YOUR URUGGIST
MAS COLDEX

Jim Gallewey
U.68.C.5

bs anit

A Minister of the Gospel

SHOULD BE

ACQUAINTED WITH MEN AND THEIR
WAYS.

TO ACCOMPLISH THIS FOR ITS STUDENTS IS
ONE OF THE AIMS OF

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

For Catalog and Information, Address,
Rev. R. B. Lacy, Jr., President
Richmond, Virginia.

United States joining the League of Nations,
saying, “Since the time when we refused to
become a member of the league, we have
resorted to indirect methods to do what we
would have done in the league. We have
attended conferences, entered into the Kel-
logg-Briande Peace Pact, and have taken a
leading role in the effort to gain world
peace.”

The machinery. that the’ leading nations
of the world have used for maintaining peace
was discussed in detail. He explained how
the countries had made alliances, held con-
ferences, and made peace pacts in an attempt
to realize world péace.

-

Freshman Scores

Fresh 22, Charlotte High 18.
Fresh 20, Charlotte High 9.
Fresh 26, Steele Creek 22.
Fresh 20, Belmont Abbey 14.
Fresh 25, Greensboro High 21
Fresh 32, Wake Forest 14.
Fresh 35, Washington & Lee 23.
Fresh 21, Roanoke 22.

Fresh 21, V. P. I. 26.

Fresh 222, Opponents 169.

HOW THEY SCORE

PiOh66 (22000 oscneeuueeeve savas 73
ROpers: Licccsceceeuecc co eieial 63
MONSON 200 ccosscholouvescuases -39
Peaboay (i626 ccousesucoitcccesecs 28
OTRAN. occ SUkeneLcoteetvases 6
WA BMOr osccelcccccecuuluusaevec 5
MOONS sec ccUcucseecuseescuedes 5
BaGQChG? cescccceccccecevausieusds 3

Russell Recovering
In Raleigh Hospital

Davidson Matman to be Confined
for Some Time

H. KE. (“Jeb”) Russell, varsity wrestler,
who was seriously and painfully injured in
the State-Davidson match of February Ist,
still remains in the Rex. Hospital at Raleigh,
N.C.

At the time of the accident it was believed
that Russell was only slightly injured, but
a later examination showed that his eighth
vertebra had been fractured.

Russell, who is of the class of 1930, won
his freshman numerals in wrestling, and has
been a varsity member ever since. He is in
the hundred and thirty-five pound class.

At the hospital, it is said that Russell still
suffers a great deal. It will probably be
two weeks before he will be able to leave the
Raleigh hospital, and can hardly be expected
to be completely recovered before six wecks.

Russell is from Winder, Georgia.

Freshmen Wrestle
Barium Team Again

The Fresh wrestling team will complete
its schedule when it meets Barium Springs
in a return match on Friday, February 14.
The Yearlings will be out for revenge, be-
cause Barium handed them a neat licking
in their last engagement. Although beaten
once by the same team, it is not safe to
assume that the Wildkittens will be defeated
again. The former match was very close
and exciting and it is safe to say that the
next match will be a better one. The Fresh
wrestlers have been improving steadily under
the leadership of Tex Tilson and an excel-
lent match is predicted.

“You look tired!”

“Yes, I’ve had a bad day. That office
boy of mine came in with the old story of
getting awayefor his grandmother's funer-
al, so just to teach him a lessons I said I
would accompany him.”

“He took you to the baseball game I
suppose?”

“No such luck! He told the truth for
once. It was his grandmother's funeral!”

$29.50

STETSON “D” STORE

OPE eaec tee

Clothes for the College Boy

$34.50

A Complete Drug Store
in a Good Town—
Make Our Store Your Store

WHITE DRUG CO.
“PRESCRIPTIONS” |

“SUNDRIES”
