THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 9, 1930

Davidson Professor To
Conduct European Tour

Party Under Dr. Watts to Spend
Entire Summer Abroad—to
Witness Passion Play

Dr. and Mrs. Geo. B. Watts are making
plans for next summer's tour of Europe. As
has been his custom for several years, the
Davidson professor wilf be ‘in charge of a
group of tourists, under the management of
Temple Tours, Inc., of Boston. This will be
his tenth trip to European lands.

Sailing on the steamship Stavangerfjord
on June 28 from New York the party will
land at Bergen, Norway on J uly 9. Ten days
will be spent in. the Scandinavian countries
with visits to Oslo, Stockholm, and Copen-
hagen, with many excursions to points of
beauty and interest. Crossing the Baltic to
Germany, where Berlin will be the head-
quarters for the next two days, An excursion
by motor will be made to Potsdam. A few
days will be spent in Dresden before visiting
Czecho-Slovakia, Austria, and Hungary. In
these. lands Prague, Vienna, and Budapest
will be the chief points of interest. One day
will be devoted to a river trip on the Danube
from Vienna to Budapest. Salzburg and
Munich will be reached on August 1 and
after two days in the Bavarian capital the
party will motor out to Oberammergau
where two nights will be spent. Here the
party will witness the world famous Passion
Play.

In 1922 Doctor and Mrs. Watts saw Anton
Lang play the role of Christus in the Passion
Play for the last time, and this year the
leading part will be taken by the younger
Alois Lang, who will be coached by Anton
who has given such masterful interpretations
at previous preformances. The party will be
housed in the homes of the peasants, the
whole interest of the town being devoted to
the entertainment of the visitors from all
over the world.

After a day of motoring in the Bavarian
Highlands the party will go on to Switzer-
land whére Luzerne and Interlaken will be
visited. The stay in the Alps will be featured
by trips on mountain railways and on the
Swiss lakes. On August 9 Paris will be
reached. Here a week will be spent with
excursions to the battlefields of the World
War and to Versailles. :

From August 16 to 23 the party will be
in England, during which time a three day
motor trip will be enjoyed to Stratford-on-
Avon, Warwick and Windsor.

Doctor Watts plans to leave London for
Paris for research work in the National
Library. He will return on an express liner
in time for the opening of college in Septem-
ber.

Any students interested in making this
trip can gain more information by seeing
Doctor Watts.

Col. W. P. Sloan

Dies at Home Here

Col. Walter Pharr Sloan, aged eighty-
four, a Confederate veteran, and for many
years a part of the life of Davidson College
campus, died at his home here on December
26, 1929, at three: o’clock. His death was
caused by a stroke of paralysis. He is sur-
vived by his wife, three daughters and one
son, Of his daughters, one, Mrs. E. F.
Bohannan, is well known to Davidson stu-
dents,

Colonel Sloan was beloved by thousands
of students and alumni of Davidson College.
He served throoughout the Civil War, en-
listing in Company “F,”’ 37th North Caro-
lina Regiment, and later being transferred

Monk Younger Again

Coaches Basketball
Varsity Squad Has Made Progress |
Under Coach Laird’s Leadership |

|
|

On Thursday, January 2, immediately after |
the Christmas recess, Coach Monk Younger
took over the reins of the varsity basketball
squad. Coach Younger for the past few
week has been unable to be at practice ses-
sions because of frozen nerves on one side |
of his face. This development took place |
just after Thanksgiving.

During Coach Younger’s illness, the squad
was ably led by Flake Laird, Freshmen
Coach. Under Coach Laird’s skillful hand, |
noticeable progress has been made by the |
varsity quint. ee

Practices began soon after Thanksgiving,
and have been held regularly since that time.
With five letter men back this year, in addi-
tion to a wealth of new material, Coach
Younger will undoubtedly produce an excep |
tional team.

+

?

&

Post Notices! !

Due to the loss of time in chapel
caused by the reading of “lost, and
found” notices, the officers of the
student body advise that such no-
tices, be posted on the bulletin
board. R. F. Norton, the secretary
of the student body, will receive all
notices of lost and found articles
and will place them on the bulletin
board. This system will give time
to more important announcements
and discussions of the student body.

’Cats Easily Defeat
Catawba In Opener

Pritchett Leads Scoring With
Fourteen Points—Johnson
and Milton Follow With

Ten Each

Displaying»a_remarkably smooth passing
attack and at*tifnes an excellent defense, the
Davidson College quintet opened the basket-

DAVIDSON FIVE AND TEN YEARS AGO

| ball season by decisively defeating the Ca-
(tawba Five on the home court, December 17.
| The score of 50 to 26 hardly does justice to

Freshman Banquet Given | the marked superiority of the Wildcat cagers,

In Chambers By Y.M.C.A. | for at no period throughout the game were

they seriously pushed and never did the
{lead pass from their hands. Carl Pritchett,
| star forward and last year’s captain of the
| Wildcats, led the scoring with a total 14
| points, closely followed by Wiegel, elongated
| center of the visitors, who amassed 13 points.
On December 16 the first Freshman! Capt. Frontis Johnson and Milton were the
banquet to be held at Davidson was given | next high men, each with 10 points.
in the banquet hall of thesChambers build- Acquiring the lead from the very begin-
ing under the auspices of-the—“¥,-Tinseled ning, the fast teamwork of the ’Cats gave
evergreens and red and black streamers |,them a 23-10 lead at the end of the half. In
added Christmas spirit and a_ suitable at-| the second the eyes of Pritchett and Milton
mosphere to the festivity. During the| were unerringly on the basket, each garner-

Jackson and Pritchett Speak—En-
tertainment Furnished by David-
son Orchestra and Queens Girls

FIVE YEARS BACK °
The Davidson basketball team opened the
season of 1925 by winning the first five
games of the season by large scores. Three
of these games were with Duke University
and the others were with the Durham Elks,
the Charlotte “Y,” and with Georgia Tech.

inf 10 points. Numerous substitutions were
made by both teams, for as this was the
first contest of the season both coaches were
feeling around for a winning combination.

Davidson grapplers returned, from their
first trip of the season with a divided record.
After downing the matmen of N. C. State
in true Wildcat fashion, they journeyed
northward and were defeated by the strong
team of the U. S. Naval Academy.

A vote of thanks was extended by the en-
tire student body to Mr. J. B. Duke for his
gift to the college. This gift, amounting to
about seventy-five thousand dollars has been
of great service to Davidson during the past
five years.

weight to suit you in HANES.

SATIFIES
YOUR EVERY UNDERWEAR NEED

SHIRTS and SHORTS
ATHLETICS and RIBS

Nobby Shirts in cotton or rayon. White, solid colors or pastel trims.
Shorts in fancy patterns and what will you have? 50c, 75c, and $1.00, The
famous SAMSONBAK Athletic Union Suit with the patented “Tug-of-War”

belt in checks and fancy materials—$1.00. If you like Ribs, there’s a style and

P. H. HANES KNITTING CO.
Winston-Salem, N..C.

delightful turkey dinner, the hundred and |
seventy-five Freshmen in attendance, togeth- |
er with their visitors, were charmingly en-
tertained by the Davidson Sunnyland Sere-
naders, and Misses Nina Cranford and Mar-
tha Dulin, from Queens .College. The speak-
ers of the evening were Mr. F. L. Jackson,
college treasurer, and Capt. N. G. Pritchett,
athletic coach. R. T. Ellett acted as Santa
Claus, and Zeb Vance Long, chairman of
Freshman work in the “Y,’” as toastmaster.

Mr. Jackson briefly sketched the standing
and accomplishments of Davidson College,
giving a number of interesting statistics and
comparing it with other colleges. Captain
Pritchett discussed the attitudes a Fresh-
man might take towards his past and future
at Davidson. He counseled application and
determination for the future with a disregard
for former failures or successes.

The attractive visitors from Queens added
greatly to the program with their stunts
and songs and were called back again and
again to give encores. Another feature yas
the novelty selection which Charles Orr
played on his violin. As his donation to the
frolic, Santa Claus distributed jumping-jacks
and amused the crowd with significant gifts
to certain members of the Class. The pro-
gram closed with the singing of “Oh David-
son.”

The preparation and serving of the meal
was under the supervision of Mrs. Gaffney,
of the College Inn. The guests, besides those
mentioned, were Dr. W. L. Lingle, Mr. J.
P. Williams, Camper O’Neal, Ernest Milton,
G. P. Henderson, and Frank R. Brown.

to Company “C,” Lane’s Brigade, A. P.
Hill’s division. He was one of the most
enthusiastic of the Confederate veterans of
Mecklenburg County. a

A Minister of ile Gasnel

SHOULD BE

CONVERSANT WITH THE VARIOUS CUR-
RENTS OF THEOLOGICAL THOUGHT

TO ACCOMPLISH THIS FOR ITS STUDENTS IS
ONE OF THE AIMS OF

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

local conditions.

Richmond,

For Catalog and Information, Address,
Rev. R. B. Lacy, Jr., President

Virginia.

“OUR

+

Telephone lines must cross natural bar-
riers. This means construction methods
must be flexible, readily varied to peculiar

Special problems arise, too, in telephone
laboratory, factory and central office. How
to protect poles from insect attack? How

Telephony knows no barriers

to develop more compact equipment for
use in manholes? Howto assure a sufficient
number of trained operators?

How to

build long distance business?

BELL SYSTEM

A nation-wide system of inter-connecting telephones

It takes resourcefulness
answers, to surmount the barriers. There
is no*stereotyped way.

to find the

PIONEERING WORK HAS JUST BEGUN” ~
