THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 18, 1930

1922 Davidson’,

Graduate

Now Dean of Law School

Dr. Malcolm Ray Doubles is Head
of T. C. Williams Law School at
Richmond, Va.

ONE OF YOUNGEST

Since His Graduation, Dr. Doubles
Has Had a Busy Career

Dr. Malcolm Ray
Davidson,

Doubles,

of the youngest law
deans in America. This distinet honor came
to him last June, when he was appointed
dean of the T. C. Williams Law School of
the University of Richmond, following his
association with that institution for a num-
ber of years, as a student,
the faculty, and as law librarian,
is only 30 years old.

He obtained
gree from Davidson, and his work
sciences .was so excellent that he
fered a fellowship at
versity.

1922 graduate

of, is one

as a member of
Dr. Doubles

his bachelor of science de-

in the
was Of-
Johns Hopkins Uni-
he decided to the
business with his father in Rich-
mond, and began studying law at the Uni-
versity at night. As a freshman, he was vice-
president of the law school, and made Delta
Theta Phi, law fraternity.

However,
insurance

enter

During 1923 and 1924, he continued his
law studies and at the same time taught sci-
ences at the University. In December of 1924
the passed the Virginia state har examina-
tion and became associated with the law firm
of Carter, Crawford & Redd, of Richmond,
in June, 1925. During his senior year, he was
president of the law student body, and at
the conclusion of his course was awarded
a medal for the best all-around graduate of
the University of Richmond.

Dr. Doubles continued his law practice in
1926, and accepted part-time Jaw instructor-
ship and law librarian’ The following year,
however, he gave up his practice and devoted
full time to his University connections. Dur-
ing the summers of 1928 and 1929 he did
graduate work at the University of Chi-
cago, and from that institution was awarded
the degree of doctor of jurisprudence in Au-
gust, 1929. He continued his work at the
Richmond institution, with the result that
his appointment came a year later.

He began his duties immediately and has
since published a new catalogue. The T. C.
Williams Law School has atefaculty of nine
members. This institution is 60 years old.

Statistics Prepared :
On S. Carolina Men

During the past summer the alumni sec-
retary had occasion to prepare a list of Da-
vidson alumni who had attended this insti-
tution, but who now reside outside of the
state. This list was compiled from the class
of 1870 through the class of 1926, and it was
found that 215 of them are now living out-
side of their native state.

These 215 men have scattered to 25 states
of the Union, eight foreign countries and the
District of Columbia. North Carolina has
received the greatest immigration of South
Carolina men who, attended Davidson, lead-
ing with 75. It is interesting that New York
claimed the second largest number, 19, while
Virginia was’next with 18; Georgia had 16;
Florida, 12, and the District of Columbia, 10.

Of the 215 men, 89 are in business; 49
are ministers; 32 are in the medical profes-
sion; 15 are connected with educational in-
stitutions in a teaching capacity; ten are
high school or preparatory school teachers;
eight are lawyers; while the remainder in-
cluded four. newspaper men, two college pres-
idents, two Y. M. C. A. secretaries, one
army Officer, one consul, and one big league
baseball player. *

. Capt. Fred L. Black, ’04, has been trans-
ferred_from Washington, D.C., to Quarter-
masters Post, Presidio of San Francisco,
California.

“Dr. Malcolm Ray Doubles.
Above

photograph used by courtesy of
Richmond (Va) Times-Dispateh,

The

Davidson Alumni at

Harvard Make Good
Harvard Officials Say That David-
son Students Are Above the
Average

Davidson College
two-year

alumni concluding the |
course at the Harvard
Business School during the past several years
have made records that have brought forth |
unusually favorable comment from officials
of that branch of Harvard Universitys, In
a letter received this summer by Prof. J. P.|
Williams, '16, of the Department of Busi-
ness Administration, a general statement was |
made by one of the officers that “the ma- |

business

jority of the Davidson College graduates |
have made records considerably above the |
average.”

Notably outstanding among the recent |
graduates was Boyce F. Martin, ’28, of |
Atlanta, Ga., avho, along with a dozen others

out of a class of 300 finishing last June, |
received the degree of
administration

“master in business
with high distinction.” Mr. |
Martin’s work during his first year was. of
such an unusually high grade that during
his second one he was able to study under
the tutorial form of instruction, correspond-
ing to the honors course at Davidson. J. S.
McAlister, ’28, of Greensboro, who also fin-
ished at Harvard in June, received either a
distinction or high pass on all of his sub-

jects. W. S. Woods, ’27, now of Atlanta,
Ga., and L.. H. Leathers, '27, of Spartan-
burg, S. C., graduated from Harvard in

1929 with the degree of business administra-
tion “with distinction.”

Seven Davidson graduates finished in the
1930 class of the Harvard Business School,
and all of them have obtained positions.
They are 1928 alumni of Davidson. Mr. Mar-
tin is in the chief statistician’s division of the
American’ Bell Telephone and Telegraph
Company; Mr. McAlister is in the credit
department of the Bank of New York and
Trust Company; Rod McRae is in the trust
department of the same concern; B. G. Al-
derman is with D. W. Alderman & Sons,
of Alcolu, S. C.; J. R. McCravey with the
Federal Reserve Bank branch in Atlanta,
Ga.; R. M. Stephenson with the Western
Electric Company’s branch in Atlanta, and
W. O. Nisbet, Jr., with the R. S. Dickson
and Company, of Charlotte.

Many. favorable reports have been com-
ing back to Davidson regarding the exploits
of other Davidson alumni connected with
the law and medical departments of Harvard
University. Several of the 1930 class of Da-
vidson- are enrolling at Harvard this fall.

Prof;-F-M, Mack,-’10; has been re-elected
superintendent of the Fort Mill, S.C, High

School for the tenth consecutive year,

Alumni Personals

H. Hunter Smith, '26, and Thomas C.
Watkins, '28, are both connected with the
faculty of Washington and Lee.

Rev. W. LL. Baker, '26, has accepted a
call to the Union Presbyterian Church, in

Gaston County. He has been at Farmville,
Virginia,
ae Shepard K. Nash, °15, of Sumter,

. has been re-elected to the Stabe Sen-
South Carolina.

ate re

Glenn A, Price, ’29, has been transferred
the American Bell Telephone and Tele-
graph Company to Princeton, Ky.

by

» O'Neal, ’28, “Y”
for the past two
at Columbia University,
next nine months.

M. (

secretary Da-
vidson

years, will study

New York, for the

at

Dr. S. W. Moore, '26, who finished at
the Harvard Medical School in June, is do-

ing his interne work at the Cleveland City

Hospital, Cleveland, Ohio.
Watt McCain, '24, has been transferred
from Chicago, Ill, to Tulsa, Okla. He is

with Mathieson Alkali Works.

After spending several months studying in
Cincinnati, Ohio, A. S, Jones, Jr., '26, has
returned to Salisbury and is in business with |
his father,

|

J. Dougald Coxe, ’23,

is operating The |
McDowell News at Marion. He was former- |
ily editor of The Mount Holly News, and!

Dr. George Howard

Above photograph used by of The

Salisbury

courtesy
Post.

Dr. George Howard Now
Aligned With University

Resigns as Rowan Gaunty Superin-
tendent After Five Years’ Work

Dr. George Haw: ard, 1912 graduate of Da-

| Prior to that was associated with papers at} vidson College, and for the past five years

| Edenton, Hertford and Red Springs.

ea Mitchell, 17,

| superintendent of the Rowan County Schools,

resigned from that position about one month

is now secretary of |ago, and has become connécted with the
| the Burlington (N. C.) Chamber of Com- extension department of the University of
merce. Until he went to Burlington this | North Carolina. He will have the rank of
month he was located in Osceola, Ark, professor of education. Definite assignment

Dr. F. M. Rane 93, has been selected |

‘Four Davidson Alumni

Join Other Institutions
University of South Carolina and
P. C. Get Twa Each—Others in

That State

| County Schools.

| Salisbury.

| the
| Board of

‘of Dr. Howard has not been made by the
University, but he will reside at Tarboro.
Since his resignation as head of the Rowan
numerous resolutions of re-
gret have been passed by organizations in
Lengthy ones appeared in last
Saturday's issue of The Salisbury Post from
Club, and the
Education.
Howard has been a student of educa-

Kiwanis from County

Dr.

|tion and its problems ever since his gradua-j

Four Davidson College alumni have begun | tion from Davidson. He has taught at .N. C.

duties with :South Carolina educational in-

|C. W., and other places in the state, and

stitutions, according to acceptances of of- [obtained his doctor of philosophy denies

fers made

months.

them during the past several |
Two of them are connected with
the University of South Carolina, and the
other two are with Presbyterian College.

Dr. J. Edward Mills, ’96, formerly of
Washington, D. C., and Edgewood, Md.. an
outstanding research chemist of America, is
on the faculty of the South Carolina Uni-
versity in the Department of Chemistry.
Prof. Paul M. Patterson, ‘25, formerly a
member of the Davidson teaching staff and
for the past two years a student at Johns
Hopkins University, heading the De-
partment of Botany at the same institution.

Dr. J. H. Davis, Jr., '25, for several years
a professor at Davidson, is now on the fac-
ulty of Presbyterian College as head of the
Biology Department. Rev. D. McL.. McDon-|t
ald, ’12, formerly Columbia, S. C., has
begun his duties as executive secretary of
Presbyterian College.

is

of

, Both of these institutions are headed by
Davidson alumni. Dr. D. M. Douglas, ’95, is
president of the South Carolina’ University,
and Dr. John McSween, '08,° heads Pres-
byterian College. : .

Other Davidson alumni are connected
with South Carolina educational institutions”
Dr, Reid Smith, ’01, is dean of the Uni-
versity’s Graduate School; Dr. H. R. Mur-
chison, '93, is chaplain at that institution,
and Prof. J. M. McFadden, ’22, is in the
Law Department. Dr. F. D. Jones, '96, is
a professor at Presbyterian College, and
Prof. J. A. Tillinghast, ’91, is with Con-
verse /College, at Spartanburg.

| been preaching at Tarrant City,

Columbia
years ago.

In 1925, he went to Salisbury, and accord-
ing to The Salisbury Post, “he came at a
time when the Board of Education was’ be-
ginning a program of intensive expansion and
development. . . . During his administration,
the number of one-teacher and two-teacher
schools was reduced effectively.” The Post
continued to name Dr. Howard's a¢complish-
ments, and paid high tribute to his labors.

The work of this educator attracted na-
tional attention, and only this summer he
attended a conference in Wisconsin,
he lectured for ten days. He
in the summer school of the University of
North Carolina, and has also taught at Ca-
tawba College, and directed a summer school
there. Dr. Howard has also been connected
with the State Board of Education for some
time.

| from University a number of

where
later taught

with head-
He was named over

health officer of Wayne County,
quarters at Goldsboro.
14 other applicants.
'27, who has
Ala., since
his .graduation from Louisville Seminary,
will be studying in Scotland this year, and
recently passed through Davidson en route.
W. A. Christian, Jr., ’27, who finished at
Union Seminary in May, is also studying at
the University of Edinburgh, and during the
summer months toured Europe.

Rev. Donald H. Stewart;

Championship Football
Team of 1910 Re-Unites

Special Invitations Have Been Is-
ssued to Re-Union on Home-
Coming Day, October 5

-* SIMMONS COACHED
Mentor Has “Commanded” Eleven

to Report on Time—Their
Record

| Back in the fall a 1910, Davidson Col-
llege had a football team that made history.
Twenty years have passed since the lads of
|those days frolicked, played and fought on
a gridiron. No attempt has ever been made
to bring that team together, but this year,
Home-Coming Day, October 25,
who have

on those

football players, since developed
lawyers, ministers and business
back, and every effort
being expended by a group of individuals
to have each member of the varsity
on the campus for that gala occasion.

into doctors,

men, will come is

eleven

Coach Floyd Simmons, who guided the
destinies of the 1909 and 1910 football teams,
has again given instructions to that formid-
able eleven, and in the last few days he has
sent each member of the eleven orders to be
here, with emphasis on the strict adherence
to his command. This letter has been sent
to the men who bore the brtint of the main
attack, and to two substitutes and the man-
One of the substitutes died last year,
and is the only one who has dropped from
the ranks.

ager.

The alumni secretary is in touch

with all of the men, except B. T. Neal, who,
when last heard from, was located in At-
lanta.

The personnel of that championship team
includes Dr. DeWitt Kluttz, of Washington,
N. C., left end and captain; Kev. Eugene
Alexander, Manchester, left tackle; B. T.
Neal, left guard; D. A. McQueen, Jackson-
ville, Fla., center ; W. D. Wolfe, Tellico
Plains, Tenn., right guard; J. C. Cashion,
Huntersville, right tackle; Lunsford Rich-
ardson, Greensboro, right end; FE. H. Gra-
ham, Goldsboro, quarterback; S. F. Ervin,
Jr., Florence, S. C., right half; eed be
Pharr, Cass,-W. Va., left half; Booe,

Rev.

Rev.
1D, IG,

Joseph, ‘Mo.,. fullback. Substitutes were
Rev. E. S. Currie, Haichow, China; Rev.
J. R. Phipps, Pollocksville, and J. N. Van
Devanter, deceased. Roy Barron, of Rock
Hill, S. C., was the manager.

The record of the 1910 team follows:
Davidson_----- 29 Gatawba: sscess ess 0
Pavidson__---- S7= enol cosas cuecae] 0
Davidson_----- GEN SRE ge oe ees 16
Davidson-_----- Gr iGarolinay asses22= == 0
Davidson_----- Wie Gary ee ee se eses 14
Davidson_-_---- 2/.-sGitadel) oes soc sous 5)
Davidson_----- 53 S. Carolina ~------- 0
Davidson__---- 32 Wake Forest ------ 0

Motalse 222-4210 1 Opponentsi==—-a= = 36

been elected to the State Senate of North
Carolina, succeeding the late James D. Proc-
tor from the eleventh senatorial district.

Rev. J. I. Knight, ’22, who has been pas-
tor at Holston Valley, Tenn., for the past
five years, began work at Mount Olive on
September 1.

While in Hawaii this summer, J. P. Mc-
Bryde, ’29, met Captain R. D. Daugherity,
former member of the Davidson R. O. T. C.
faculty. Mr. McBryde mailed the alumni sec-
retary a card from Honolulu, but did not
tell the extent of his summer travels.

»Dr. Neal L. Anderson, '85, pastor of the
Independent Presbyterian Church of) Savan-
nah, Ga., was critically ill this summer, but
has now recovered.

Chas. W. Robinson, ’22, is vache at
Bryn Mawr Hospital, Bryn Mawr, Pa.:
James P. Hendrix, ’25, and J. M. Cooke,
|'26, at the University Hospital, Philadelphia,
/Pa. These three men graduated at the Uni-

Hon. W. E. Lynch, ’13, of Rowland, has versity of Pennsylvania in June.
