THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 10, 1930

Dr. Charles G. Vardell
Resigns as President

Of Flora Macdonald College—He
Will Continue as Members of the
Faculty

Dr. Charles G. Vardell, ’88, pioneer in
the life of Flora Macdonald College at Red
Springs, and President of that institution
since its organizaiton in 1896, resigned as
President of that college the latter part of
February. Contrary to newspaper reports
published at htat time, Dr. Vardell did not
resign because of ill health, but because he
felt that a younger man should assume the
head of Flora Macdonald. His connection
with the institution was not completely sev-
ered, for he will continue as a professor in
that college.

Several times before Dr. Vardell had of-
fered his resignation to the board, but upon
their urging he continued as the President.
This time, however, he was firm in his in-
sistence that his resignation be accepted, and
the trustees of that institution acted accord-
ingly, drawing up a set of resolutions ex-
pressing regret that Dr. Vardell felt that
this step was necessary.

Commenting editorially under the caption,
“Inseparable Names,” The Charlotte Ob-
server declared that “No doubt there will
be an inclination on the part of the Board
of Trustees of Flora Macdonald College to
induce Doctor Vardell to reconsider his de-
termination to relinquish the Presidency of
that institution, which he has served so faith-
fully and efficiently through many past years.
The public has regarded the two names as
inseparable, for Doctor Vardell has advanced
the fortunes of that institution from a small
beginning to its present status as one of the
finest in the land... Flora Macdonald would
not seem the same with Doctor Vardell not
there.” :

Under Doctor Vardell’s leadership Flora
Macdonald has become a_nationally-known
institution and students from every State of
the Union and several foreign countries have
been educated there. Over 200 are enrolled
this year, and it has a faculty of 25 mem-
bers.

Births

During the past several months a num-
ber of announcements of births have been
received by the alumni office, a few of them
occurring some time ago. Information was
obtained here and there, and the belatedness
of some of the announcements was through
lack of knowledge. They are as follows:
1909—Dr. and Mrs. P. J. Chester, of Fay-

etteville, a daughter, Carolyn Eliza-
beth, on April 2nd.

—Mr. and Mrs. Hugh A. Query, of
Gastonia, a daughter, Margaret Wal-
lace, on March 18th.

1912—Mr. and Mrs. J. O. Cobb, of Durham,
a daughter, Virginia LeGrande,
March Sth.

1916—Mr. and Mrs. K. A. MacDonald, of
Hope Mills, a son, Milton Laughlin,
on March 28th.

1922—Dr. and Mrs. A. P. Ormond, of Stow,
Ohio, a daughter, Elizabeth Anne, on
November 30, 1929.

1924—Mr. and Mrs. C. M. Davis, of Win-
ston-Salem, a son, Charles M., Jr.,
on March 19th.

—Mr. and Mrs, J. C. McDiarmid, Jr.,
of Constantinople, Turkey, a .son,
James Cowling, Jr., on March 7th.

1925—Dr. and Mrs. L. P. Cox, of Mobile,
Ala., a son, L. P., Jr., on September
3, 1929.

on

1926—Mr. and Mrs. C. K. Marshall, Jr., of;

Baltimore, Md., a daughter,
Holt, on February 22nd.

Mary

The ladder of success is full of splinters,
but they hurt worst when you are sliding

. down,

By leaving a party early you give others
some one to talk about.

He- “Come on, just one Kiss.”
She: “I’m not a retailer.”

ALUMNI PERSONALS (C

“DRUGS” “SODA”

D. F. Martin, Jr., '29, has been awarded
a fellowship at the University of North
Carolina in the Department of Economics
and Science for the second successive year.

The Woman's Auxiliary of the Asheville
Presbytery is endowing a scholarship at the
Montreat Normal School in honor of Rev.
Rk. P. Smith, D.D., °73, of Asheville.

Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, ‘06, and Dr.
Oren Moore, ‘08, both of Charlotte, were
this week on the program of the First Dis-
trict Medical Society at
Laurinburg.

its meeting in

Buck Marrow, ‘31, has gone to Evans-
ville, Ind., to join the Three-[ League. He
. c . re e
is the property of the Detroit Tigers.

everett: Booe, “11, formerly of Kennedy,
Texas, is manager of the Greensboro Pa-
triots, of the Piedmont League, this season.

Ernest Graham, ‘13, of Red Springs, is
a candidate for the North Carolina House
of Representatives; Hon. J. Bayard Clark,
05, of Fayetteville, is an unopposed candi-
date for re-election to the United States
House of Representatives; W. B. Garrison,
20, and Davis Robinson, ’23, both of Char-
lotte, are candidates for the Mecklenburg
Board of County Commissioners.

Dr. M. H. Wyman, '08, of Columbia, S. C.,
is Vice-President for South Carolina of the
Tri-State Medical Association.

T. T. Allison, 1900, of Charlotte, has
been unanimously chosen a member of the
School Board of that city.

Rev. B. R. Lacy, D.D., '06, of Richmond,
will preach the baccalaureate sermon at Rae-
ford this commencement; Rey. W. T.
Thompson, D.D., ’05, of Richmond, will
preach a similar sermon at the Lexington
High School.

Dr. John Walker Moore, '06, dean of the
Louisville (Ky:) Medical College, is work-
ing on some research, studying. the output
of the heart. He has been doing this for two
years, and he might work ten in making his

| calculations, which would give definite data

which would be of value in studying heart
conditions.

Friends wil regret to learn of the death
of A. C. Ray, father of Rev. A. C. Ray, Jr.,
Jr., ’25. Mr. Ray was run down and killed
by an automobile. Friends are also sorry
to hear of the death of W4 I! Howell, father
of W. I. Howell, Jr., ’26, now a student at
Union Seminary in Richmond, Mr. How-
ell’'s death followed close on that of his
wife.

C. R. Vance, ’21, who has been in Nash-
ville, Tenn., has returned to Greensboro
and opened offices for Caldwell and Com-
pany.

of the Presbyterian Church at Cass, W. Va.,
recently completed evangelistic services of
two weeks in his church. “Prayer Changes
Things” was the slogan of the revival. There
were 53 professions of faith, a number of
people united with the church by re-state-
ment and church letter, and 225 reconse-
crated their lives. This pastor is well re-
membered as a prominent football and base-
ball player.

James -A. McRae, ’09, has been made
Treasurer of Flora Macdonald College at
Red Springs.

Judge E. McA. Currie, '16, is Chairman
of the Mecklenburg Democratic Executive
Committee.

Rey. Edgar Woods, ’19, who has been
studying at the Biblical Seminary in New
York, is filling the pulpit of the First Pres-

while Dr. C. F. Myers is recuperating from
a breakdown.

George W. Ragan, Jr., '26, is in Johns
Hopkins Hospital, where he recently under-
went an operation.

S. Clay Williams, '05, of Winston-Salem,
is a delegate to the 18th annual meeting of
the Chamber of Commerce of the United
States, representing the Winston-Salem

body,

Rev. James T. “Tim” Pharr, ’12, pastor |

byterian Church at Greensboro for a month,

Frank P. Morton, Jr., '23, for the last two
years manager of hte O. Henry Hotel in
Greensboro, has been transferred to the gen-
eral headquarters of the Southeastern Ho-
tels Company, and is now located at Charles-
ton, S.C.

Alexander Sprunt, Jr., 18, who is curator
of the museum in Charleston, S. C., and
has developed an extensive reputation as an
authority on birds, wrote an article which
appeared in the April issue of the Ladies
Home Journal. Mr. Sprunt has had another
article accepted by the American Magazine.
He has done much feature writing for the
newspapers of North and South Carolina.

Best wishes for you on your vacation

WHITE DRUG CO.

Captain John S. Moore, 15, now stationed
in. the Philippine Islands, recently won the
Fort McKinley golf championship, and also
the amateur championship of the Philippine
Islands, getting a cup for second low medal.
Captain Moore will return to America in
August, and will be stationed at Alex-
andria, La,

“PRESCRIPTIONS

When Small Machines
Were Big

Mo than a quarter century ago,
the Commonwealth Edison Com-
pany, prophetically alive to the
immense possibilities of the future,
ordered from General Electric a 5000-
kilowatt steam turbine—in those days
a giant of electric power.

s000-kilowatt turbine-generator

installed in 1903 at the Fisk Street

station of the Commonwealth
Edison Company, Chicago

To-day, a General Electric turbine-

generator of 208,000-kilowatt capacity
* sends out its vast energy to the Chicago
Metropolitan District.

College-trained men played a respon-
sible part in the engineering and
manufacture of both machines— just
as they serve in important capacities
in the engineering, production, and
distribution of all General Electric
equipment, large or small.

208,000-kilowatt turbine-
S generator installed at the
’ State Line generating
Station

JOIN US IN THE GENERAL FLECTRIC HOUR, BROAD-
CAST EVERY SATURDAY EVENING ON A NATION-WIDE
N.B.C. NETWORK

GENERAL@ ELECTRIC

