6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 11, 1930

Twenty-five Out for
Freshman Basketball

Coach “Red” Laird has issued the cail
for Freshman basketball practice and about
twenty-five men have reported for the pre-
holiday workouts. The practices that have
been most predominant for the last week
have been limbering-up exercises and drills
that will aid those aspirants to make the
team get their eye on the ball and the bas-
ket. Scrimmages will probably start this
week with the anticipation of probability of
one game before the holidays start. This
game, if played, will be with Salisbury High
School on the Davidson court. The game
will probably be played on Tuesday night,
December 16. :

The prospects for a winning team seem
entirely possible; Coach Laird has as his
problem to pick a team from a group of
players who showed up very well on their
respective high school and prep school teams
last year. The aspirants out for the team
range from different parts of the country,
from as far south as Florida and as far
north as Massachusetts.

The schedule as yet has not been com-
pleted, but as usual several games will be
played at Davidson and return games will
be played with most of the teams that visit
here.

R. O. T. C. to Compete
In Athletic Events

’ Under the direction of Heath Whittle, as-
sistant physical education instructor, intra-
military volley ball competition has gotten
under way, and games between the various
companies of the R. O. T. C. have been
played. Up until last Monday, four games
had been played, two of which were won by
Company “A.”

The results of these four games are as
follows: Company A won over Company
- B; Company C won over Company B;
Company A won over Company C; and
Company D won over Company B. These
games were played on the two volley ball
courts on the ground between Chambers Au-
ditorium and the dormitories. The captains
of the companies are, respectively, Sisson,
Kuykendall, Craemer, and, Meacham.

The main object of this competition be-
tween the members of the various military
units is to provide some means for physical
exercise for those men who are not able
to engage in other sports. Toward the fur-
thering of this purpose, Heath Whittle has
announced plans for intra-military compe-
tition in basketball, indoor baseball (played
outside), soccer, and shuttle relays. These
games will be begun as soon as interest in
volley ball lags, and weather conditions per-
mit the beginning of the respective sports.
Up until now, students have ‘displayed much
interest in the volley ball competition.

PROSPECTS FOR 1931 TEAM
(Contin(ued from page 3)

return next year to fill these two positions
with experienced men, who have played ex-
cellent games this year. Raker finished the
season in a blaze of glory, starring against
Carolina and Wake Forest. In addition to
these two, the reserves of this year will
supply Kuykendall, McFadyen, Bernard, and
Whitfield, all of whom weigh closé’ to 180
pounds. Whitfield, big Sophomore, showed
promise towards the last of the season in
developing into a fine tackle, while Kuyken-
dall and Bernard were used a few times this
year. The Freshmen send up Wilson, Lynn,
and Goodykoontz.

The guard positions will provide the most
trouble in filling. Mathis will probably hold
down one, as he has done for the past two
seasons, capably. Conway is also available
for the other position and should develop
next year. Reserves for this position, how-
ever, are few. Steve White, Fred Ogden,
and Mackorell are probable candidates. The
Freshmen send up Tong, Slaughter, Nickey
and Tee and Wee Thompson. It looks like
| Mathis and Conway may be the starting pair
at guard next year.

The graduation of Mason still leaves the
center position with two candidates. Gard-
ner, a fine center, will be on hand for his
second year of varsity competition. John
D. McConnell will strengthen the centering
staff as he is a capable center and uncanny
in his defense against passes. The Fresh-
men will send up Wooten and Bagget, ex-
ceedingly light but fighting Kittens.

Out of the graduation-wrecked backfield,
there will be left McQueen, Charlie Pearce,
’ Don King, Mills, Clark, Peabody and Brad-
shaw. Fleagle is also counted on for serv-
ice next year, having been injured all. of
this season. Don. King, according to pres-
ent indications, will be relied on to call sig-
nals next year either from the quarterback

Juniors Victorious in

Volley Ball Series

The Junior Class won their second title in
the intramural competition by winning the
volley ball championship, winning two out
of three games played in the second and
final round. The only game that they lost
was to the Sophomores. During the last
week the Juniors defeated the Seniors and
the Freshmen and lost to the Sophomores;
the Seniors lost to‘the Juniors and’ the
Sophomores; the Sophomores, who got. off
to a bad start in the first round by losing
three straight games, won all the rest of
their games and thus maintained a percentage
of .500 for the competition; the Freshmen
lost three more games during the week and
they thus bring up the rear in volley ball.

This intramural volley ball has been a
big success, according to Heath Whittle, di-
rector of the playing. It met with so much
success that he decided to stage an inter-
company competition between the companies
in the R. O. T. C. department, which at
present is led by Company A,

Tnis 1s the third intramural sport to
be run off this year; the football was won
by the Juniors, the basketball was won by
the Sophomores, who defeated the Juniors
in a play-off by the score of 44-24, and
finally the volley ball was won by the
Juniors. After the Christmas holidays the
intramural baseball and track will be run
off. :

The final standing of the volley ball com-
petition is as follows:

W. L. Pet.
JUMIOrS caeucseeceeccs sees 5 1 833
Sophomores ~_------------ 3 3 .500
SOnlOrs: aocscueitecanbesesd 3 500
DPesnMen = cose coese seasons 1 5 .167

’CATS COMPLETE 33 PASSES

(Continued from page 1)

rivals took to the air in their various en-
counters 118 times, and completed 34
heaves. The Wildcats attempted 127 and’
completed 33. In yards gained by passes,
however, Davidson had a slight edge, show-
ing 444 yards’ advance to 430 for their
opponents.

Wildcat field generals were erratic from
game to game in their attempts to gain by
air. The number tried in any one game
ranged from 28 against Wake Forest to
only three for the Wofford engagement.
Nineteen were tossed against V. M. I., with
only four completions, and 18 in the N. C.
State engagement gave the same number
complete. Davidson showed a perfect after-
noon in the air in their opening game with
Elon, when all four attempted passes were
completed. Twenty-six per cent of the passes
thrown during the season, or about one-
fourth, were good.

The Erskine Seceders were more air-
minded than any of Davidson’s other foes,
and filled the air with 21 passes to com-
plete eight. The Carolina Tar Heels tried
18 and completed six, and The Citadel at-
tempted 19. The ten opponents of Davidson
completed 28 per cent of their tries.

One enemy can do more hurt than ten
friends can do good.—Swift.

The highest and most lofty trees have
the most reason to dread the thunder.—

Rollin.

post or from one of the half positions. Don
McQueen, smashing fullback, will likely
hold down that position. The halfback pair
will probably be chosen from Mills and
Pearce, Bradshaw, Fleagle, or Clark. Pea-
body may see some service at quarterback.
The Freshmen will send up West and Cur-
lee, quarterbacks; Blanton, Williams, Casali,
halfs; Brown and Harrison, fullbacks. Of
these West, Curlee and Brown ought to
make the best prospects.

Out of this it might be gathered that the
Wildcats should have every position taken
¢are of by an experienced man, but the re-
serve power will be inferior to this year’s.
The Freshmen will present practically noth-
ing to the varsity next year, but in the fol-
lowing year several should develop into
fairly good players.

College Calendar

Friday, Dec. 12—Concluding lecture
by Dr. Kirk.

Saturday, December 13 — House
Party—4 P. M. Picture Show
7:15 Vaudeville, in Chamber’s Au-
ditorium, followed by Christmas
tree, in Banquet Hall.

Sunday, Dec. 14—Vesper services —
Special Christmas Musical Pro-
gram.

Tuesday, Dec. 16—Literary Soci-
eties in respective halls. Varsity
Debating Try-outs afterwards.

Wednesday, Dec. 17 — Sophomore

Class Banquet, Chambers Banquet
Hall at 8:30 P. M.

Meeting Student Sunday School
Teachers in “Y” Reading Room—
at 9 P. M.

Freshmen designated will meet in
“Y” Social Center at the same

hour (9 P. M.)

’Cats March 2,980
Yards This Season

If the yards which Davidson ball carriers
had advanced the pigskin in their football
games this year were all placed end to end,
the backs would have traveled nearly two
miles. Or to be exact, Wildcat advances
for the season net over 1.7 miles for the
ten games. Figures show that the ball-toters
carried the ball 2,980 yards, or enough yard-
age to go from one goal line to the other
for touchdowns 298 times. This includes all
gains from scrimmage, and from returns
of punts and kickoffs.

The distance made from scrimmage alone
is exactly a mile, with 68 yards left over
for good mesaure. Rushing tactics gained
1,828 yards. Davidson was air-minded enough
to gain a quarter of a mile by passes, 444
yards being added to the total by this mode
of advance.

Joe McCall, halfback, carried the ball well
over half a mile himself. Many of his gains
resulted from long runs from scrimmage or
on returns of punts and kickoffs. He gained
1,024 yards during the season, over half of
which was made by runs from scrimmage
formations.

Students Now Ask
For Five-Day Week

University of Georgia “Red and
Black” Starts Campaign for
Shorter Week

Believing that the five-day week is just
as important an innovation in college life as
it is in industry, the Red and Black, under-
graduate newspaper at the University of
Georgia, has started agitation editorially to
keep Saturdays free from classes at the
university.

“We admit,” the Red and Black says, “that
there are certain visible advantages to be
gained in going to classes six days a week.
... More work can be accomplished for one
thing. But we question whether the quality
of work is as high as that done during a
five-day week. Most experts agree that it
is not. Henry Ford has experimented with
shorter hours and fewer work days. His tests
show that the average man does a higher
quality of work laboring over a short period
than he does over a long one. His tests are
not too irrelevent to be applied to the Uni-
versity of Georgia.”

The newspaper further admits that various
other difficulties would arise, especially that
of completing the week’s class schedule. It
suggests, therefore, that students attend
classes in certain subjects each day until that
course has been completed, and then take up
work in other courses, studying in that every
day until it is completed.

The secret things belong unto the Lord
our God.—Deuteronomy.

“We boast our light; but if we look not
wisely on the sun itself, it smites us into
darkness.”—John Milton.

STATIONERY

STUDENT SUPPLIES
FOUNTAIN PENS

'NEW RECORDS EVERY WEEK
SUPERIOR SODA SERVICE

W. S. HENDERSON

=

MAGAZINES
BOOKS
SUNDRIES

Enrollment Result |
Of Unusual Course

Cumberland University Attributes
its Unique Representation to
One Year Law Course

Cumberland University, with a student
body that includes graduates and former
students of 53: American colleges and uni-
versities, and which is made up of repre-
sentatives from 27 states and three foreign
countries, claims the distinction of having
the most cosmopolitan student body for its
size of any institution of higher learning in
the United States.

The total enrollment of the university is
just short of 450.

The cause of such an unusual student body,
university authorities point out, is the
unique one-year law course which Cumber-
land offers, preparing the student for the
state bar examinations in most states in nine
months.

More than two-thirds of the student body
is enrolled in the one-year law school.

Outside of Tennessee, Texas leads in
number of students here, the Lone Star
State having 41 students enrolled.

Conn. River Banks Claim
Most Schools in World

Middletown, Conn.—(IP)—That the Con-
necticut River has on its banks more insti-
tutions of higher learning than any other
in the world, including the Thames, in Eng-
land, is the claim set forth in an article
from the Boston Transcript, reprinted in
the Wesleyan Argus here.

From north to south, on the banks of
the river, these institutions are:

Dartmouth, at Hanover, N. H.; Norwich
University, in Vermont; Northfield and Mt.
Hermon Seminaries in Massachusetts; Am-
herst College, Massachusetts Agricultural

‘| College, at Amherst; Smith College, Mt.

Holyoke, two colleges at Springfield, Trin-
ity College and Hartford Theological Sem-
inary at Hartford, and Wesleyan at Middle-
town.

Until recently the Berkeley Divinity
School was on the banks og the river, and
for the first fifteen years of its existence
Yale University also was so situated, at
Saybrook.

“

_&
JUNIORS ENTERTAIN

(Continued from page 1)

Immediately following this frolic, a recep-
tion will be held in the banquet hall of
Chambers Building. Santa Claus will be in-
troduced to the audience and gifts will be
given out from a Christmas tree just before
refreshments are served. It was rumored also
that a square would be held, depend-
ing on the sanction of the faculty, following
this reception. Not much can be said about
this at this date as plans have not been
completed.

The committees working on this program
are headed by Bill Lea, who is in charge
of the program; Buchnor, who is chairman
of the committee on placing girls at various
houses, and McKinnon, treasurer of the
class, who is in charge of the tickets and
financial end of the affair.

DR. LINGLE ATTENDS

(Continued from page 1)
tion in reference to purchasing new books
for the Davidson library. It will be remem-
bered that the Carnegie Corporation awarded
the Davidson library fifteen thousand dollars

(|: 3:°=°0oO=—nwmcvg a [>
Davidson Five Years

Ago

Eighty-one Freshmen were pledged to the
eight national and three local fraternities
on the campus after the three months’ rush-
ing period. One hundred and three bids were
issued to ninety Freshmen.

Dr. Edward Mack, speaker for the Phi
Beta Kappa ceremony, gave a resume of the
history of the famous honorary fraternity
and extolled the virtues of sacrificed learn-
ing. The meeting was opened with a prayer
by Dr. D. M. Frazer, following which Dr.
C. R. Harding gave a short talk on the
historic importance of Phi Beta Kappa.

Coach “Dutch” Hengeveld turned the bas-
ketball squad over to Coach Younger, who
in turn started cutting the squad and get-
ting the team in shape for the coming sea-
son.

The Glee Club gave their second pro-
gram of the season to an audience assembled
at Queens College, Charlotte. Their offer-
ings were very well accepted.

Wildcat Backs Gain
Total of 1,820 Yards

Five Davidson Wildcat backs did most
of the ball-carrying for Davidson during
past season,Jeach of them showing gains of
over 200 yards for the year’s work. McCall,
King, Brohard, McQueen and Captain Fraley
gained 1,596 yards of the total 1,828 yards
gained by scrimmage during the season.

Joe McCall, All-State halfback of the
Wildcats, led his teammatesein ground gain-
ing for the season with 537 yards from
scrimmage. McCall carried the pigskin 90
times for an average gain per trip of 6.2
yards. McCall’s average was also the high-
est of any regular on the team. Many of his
gains were the results of long runs.

King was next to McCall with 361 yards.
He carried the ball 92 times for a mean
advance each trip of 3.9 yards. Brohard and
McQueen, fullbacks, gained 254 and 239
yards, respectively, with averages of 2.8
and 4.1 yards per trip. Captain Fraley, quar-
terback, gained 206 yards in 50 tries for an
average of a little over four yards.

The highest average for any man on the
team was made by Dan Goodykoontz, who
gained 39 yards in four attempts, averaging
9.8 yards. The team average was 4.5 yards
for the entire season.

OTT’S LECTURES

(Continued from page 1)
earth from the farthest body that man can
see with his largest telescope. In view of
these facts, it is no wonder that man asks
how God can care for him as the Bible
promises since he is a mere atom in the uni-
verse.

Dr. Kirk explained that the truth and
reality of this promise of divine blessing
and interest is shown in that man is able to
look through his one hundred-inch telescope
and realize not only the existence but also
the composition of that body which is so far
removed that its distance is too great to be
be expressed in miles and so is figured in
the millions of light years.

last spring. On Sunday morning Dr. Lingle
spoke at the Princeton Chapel, and in the
evening at the First Presbyterian ‘Church
at Princeton.

Davidson Theatre

Monday and Tuesday, December 1, 2
“DuBarry’s Woman of Passion”
with
NORMA TALMAGE
Wednesday, December 3

“Lottery Bride”
JEANETTE McDONALD

Thursday, December 4
“Laughter”
with
NANCY CARROLL
Friday, December 5
“Remote Control”

with
WILLIAM HAINES
DMAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AA LAA AAA AAA AA DAA AA AAD
