THE DAVIDSONIAN,

OCTOBER 9, 1930

Che Mabidsontan

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
ie iate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
ice; Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the

Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.
. WILSON McCUTCHAN.........--..---.--- Editor-in-Chief
f: Ay GANNON | csiscdeueceucs cos oe Business Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF s
S| DWELLE, JRicsccccscc ioc oes c occa a ens, Managing Editor
AW AUiiseiseuuliscwscscccseéosccuuccaane Managing Editor
IMMARCLIUNGUsioccbacdedccdGscsccscuccuuee Managing Editor

...-Sports Editor
-Feature Editor
Feature Editor
-Review Editor
Associate Editor
.---Associate Editor
NA GING ccsceudbssansuadsnquscnbocucss Associate Editor

z
>
25
=
x
Se
wi

. ALDE RMAN..
*K

som>Z<z0en
coe Rdreng
tt x.
=

BUSINESS STAFF

P. M. C -Assistant Business Manager
A. J. BAKER Assistant Business Manager
J.B Assistant Business Manager
A. G ..-----Subscription Manager
PHRMBROWN tidcdeatessncascsdstecdacclatancsccauccuss Solicitor
R, W. PADS 2s... 882 uo co ann none no ecces Solicitor
A. -Solicitor
A. iL. MEBANE ....---2.2222.-20..0020 0000 nnnone-500 Solicitor
W, 'R. MORROW ooo 25 oka nn nnn nnn nce cnn ec nnonns Solicitor
REPORTERS’ CLUB ;

GS SF-WIDBDYs sececescecoenuccssccscccludascescseudacae President
D. G. STKE PHE NSONS coco oS ccc cccdscuccseccces Vice-President
A, Hi (WHITEHBAD... .u-.. 552-520 coccs Secretary-Treasurer

R. H. ALDERMAN J. M. BROWN

J. G. BERRY G. E. BAILEY

A. R. BIRD . E. BOYD

N. B CKS G. DUNKLIN

E. O. GUERRANT W. T. HANCOCK

. E. LAKE R. L. McCALLIE

i, C. MATTHEWS Cc. F. MYERS

. F, MULLISS H. F. NICHOLS

G. P. me RDINGTON S. P. PRESTON

Cc. W. SPENCER B. B. SUGG

B. B TAYLOR W. rd WARD

J. R. SMITH D. D. McBRYDE

OCTOBER 9, .1930

There is a passion for hunting something
deeply planted in the human breast.
—Charles Dickens.

Students Wish to express their sympathy

to Coach Younger in his recent sorrow.

SUGGESTIONS

One of the things which students miss most at
this time of year is an open fire place! One does
not use pine knots to read by in this day of elec-
tricity, but a glowing hearth is home-like. :

As cold weather rapidly becomes colder one
thinks of the college band. Capes would improve
the looks of that organization as well as keeping
the boys warmer.

Appreciation is expressed to the Executive Com-
mittee for their action taken in regard to the Duke
game at Durham. Everyone is intensely set to-
ward victory, but every man should discomfort
himself, if necessary, to be there.

Congratulations tothe Athletic Association on
_ their plans to provide programs for the remaining
games of the football season! Spectators will be
able to follow the game more closely.

If the roommate is digging for a review spare

him from the agonizing harmony of a popular
melody.

It would be a safe wager that when the fall rains
begin there will be no need to stress the purpose of
the new concrete walks.

James Alcinpura is the only co-ed among two
hundred and ninety-nine students of a teachers’
college in New Jersey. He has courage.

THE FIRST STEP HAS BEEN TAKEN

With the sixth and final address made
during his recent stay in Davidson Dr. Ben
R. Lacy terminated a series of talks which
were ds inspiring as any “since the memory
of man runneth not to the contrary.” From
his first sermon on Sunday morning Dr.
Lacy held the interest and attention of his
audience. His was not an easy task, for he
_ followed such men as Dr. Vander Meulen,

Dr. Sam Glasgow, and Bill Anderson. He
justified the choice of the Y. M. C. A.

Students are universal in their admiration
and appreciation. The true test will. come
after a month or two have elapsed. One
round a week does not tend to develop a par
golfer. Neither will a spiritual revival twice
a year give a person satisfaction. All that
Dr. Lacy and those before him have at-
tempted to do is to direct the thought of
the students. They recognize that a man
cannot change himself totally in the space
of a few days.

Thought can be stimulated, not created.
Ideas can be brought forward, but one has
to continue to think about the problems
mentioned before he can reach a solution.
ns ie men who have been:stirred mentally are

réady to think. Whether they do or not de-
pends entirely on themselves.

Falt services are completed. Some’ men

will fall back into the same old rut; others
will stay out. The most interesting fact
about thoughts is that one leads to another.
They progress, subconsciously perhaps, into
surprising situations.

Incidentally the point is that students will
deprive little benefit from these services un-
less they ponder over them. Dr. Lacy has
gone; winter is coming. There will be
plenty of time to think’ over his advice.

Incidentally the point is that students will
derive little benefit from these services un-
less they ponder over them, Dr. Lacy has
gone ; winter is coming. There will be plenty
of time to think over his advice.

CLOTHES OF OFFICE

On Tuesday a vast crowd of people at-
tended the celebration of the battle of Kings
Mountain. Perhaps the greatest drawing
card was the presence of Herbert Hoover,
President of the United States of America.
One is naturally drawn into the audience of
a man supposedly great.

We do not intend at this time to comment
on the rather apparent employment of a
commemorative event for political purposes.
It will ‘be recalled that Republican party
headquarters announced the billing of four
speeches in defense of the present admin-
istration. The one Tuesday was listed among
them. However, this is not a discussion of
parties or of politics.

Man will do much and suffer much to
gratify his curiosity; how far he goes de-
pends to a great exent on his mental ca-
pacity. Gratitude has nothing to do with it.
One type of mind will travel for miles to
witness the hanging of a notorious criminal.
A more advanced type will go through ex-
actly the same difficulties to listen to a bril-
liant scientist. An especially famous medi-
cine man in darkest Africa exacts the same
homage from. members of his. tribe.

Few people pause to think that, although
a man may be the chief executive of the
greatest republic in the world, he may not
be a good philosopher. Moreover, he is sel-
dom an active athlete, a thologist, or a
psychologist. If he is fortunate he may
know life.

Hero worship is a peculiar emotion; its
ingredients are hard to analyize. This much
is evident; deification of those men fortu-
nate enough to fill public offices should not
be winked at. It would have been easily pos-
sible for a man far’ wiser, far nobler, and
far more efficient than is President Hoover,
to have been in the crowd at Kings Moun-
tain. His name would have passed unsung;
his presence wotild have been unnoticed.

This is not a;criticism of the President of
our federal state. The incident merely il-
lustrates the point we wish to make. Clothes
may help to make the man, but clothes of
office do itot. The dignitary must have been
a man before he was elected to his position
or born to it, as the case of monarchs. And,
many kings were notable failures because
they were rulers without character.

A man does not become great upon elec-
tion whether it be by the voice of the people
or the divine right of kings. He should have
been great before. Again we point to the
fact that we are not questioning the subject
of Hoover’s-claim to fame. But, we do say
that the majority of the people who saw
the President on Tuesday were more con-
cerned with the position than the man.

This same principle holds true for any of-
fice, famous or obscure. It is both possible
and probable that an executive can be great
because of himself and because of his title.
It is also possible for a little man to sit ina
great place. There will doubtless be much
adverse opinion as regards this theory. If
there is we can only assume the attitude of
Patrick Henry when he shouted, “Caesar
has his Brutus, Charles I his Cromwell, and
George III... (cries of “Treason! Trea-
son!” were heard in the hall). If this be
treason, make the most of it!”

INFERENCES FROM “WHO’S WHO”

This publication makes no claim to omniscience in
selecting the 29,704 names included in the new edition.
Some are there because of official position, but the rest
are chosen because of “special prominence in credit-
able lines of. effort,” which, in turn, makes them “sub-
jects of extensive interest, inquiry or discussion.” A
certain degree of curiosity on the part of the users of
this volume is assumed, for “where there is no curi-
osity, information: becomes tedious in proportion as
it is precise.”
worth, no rigid definition of success. “Prominence”
procures admission to “Who's Who,” and its pages
give added prominence even to those who are but
“prominulous” on entering.

Immediately the absence is noted of names that
should be there if inclusion were a measure of excel-
lence. But as a: general work of reference the book
is invaluable in giving specific local habitation to men
arid women whose names arouse interest. It also fur-
nishes reliable biographical material from which to
generalize. This year. special attention has again been

There is no attempted appraisement of -

What Do You Know
About?

Where the Old Clothes Go?
The National Miniature Open?
Bet-a-Hat?

Expensive seats?

Scoop the Scoops?

What happens to our old clothes after the press-
ing clubs get through wearing them out? Well, if
they have had four years college education, they
very often get to take a trip over seas and turn
up on the back of some follower of Gandhi in
India, or on a camel driver in Egypt. The business
of exporting old clothes has grown into a sizable
industry, and due to the fact that American
clothes are better than those of other nations in
quality, garments which once shed the cold of
winter from American citizens is likely to keep
the sand from a city dweller of Iraq.

Each country seems to have its own tastes.
The well-dressed Indian has a_ penchant
for vests, frequently as many as four or five
at once, topping the outfit off with a loud
waistcoat. In South Africa the demand for
style finds its highest expression. He also likes
an occasional Army overcoat around in case of
snow, or merely for general wear. Discarded
Tuxedos find their way to Iraq, where dress
coats also are in high favor. The Egyptions
prefer cast off summer suits and other light
weight clothing. Be sure to find out the trade-
in value of that old suit Nerone discarding it
the next time.

“No game is in a sound state when it is played
only by professionals.’—Dean Inge.

Professional golfers may laugh at minature
golf, but the prizes offered to the winner of
the first National open championship of the
Tom Thumb.courses are not to be sneezed at.
Winners of local Pee Wee tournaments will
meet on the course at Lookout Mountain,
Tenn., which, by the way is the birthplace of
the current American plague, to battle for first
money, which amounts in this case to $7,500.

Among national stars entered in the local
eliminations are Gene Sarazen, twice winner of
the Professional Golfers Association champion-
ship and numerous other titles; Walte Kozak,
1929 Metropolitan champ; Bill Mehlhorn; and
Al Espinosa, who tied Bobby Jones for the
National Open championship last year, losing
in the playoff. Tommy Armour has also filed
his entrance, and Wiffy Cox, among many
others.

“An act of congress has small jurisdiction
over what men think.”—Calvin Coolidge.

One of the niftiest salesmanship schemes of the
season is the Bet-a-Hat campaign put on by the
Knox Hat Co. Why, say the sponsors, risk your
hard-earned sheckles on betting on something you
TWO— EDI — PAGE
don’t want. Make a hat the prize of your wager,
and go through the season with a brand-new sky
piece o’erhead.

And the Railway Express Agency, noticing huge
spaces of nothing on the sides of their trucks, de-
cided to’ sell the unused space to advertisers. So
Wrigley and Chesterfield ads are now appearing
on the express delivery trucks all over the United
States.

“If 1 should die, I should have plenty of
brothers to succeed me.”—Prince of Wales.

While hurling epithets at the dirty so-and-so
who borrowed your chair over the summer, be
thankful that it wasn’t a seat in the New York
Stock Exchange that was lifted. The value of one

given to the educational experience of those who have
reached “Who's Who” distinction. One clear indication
is that a college’ education leads to such recognition.

Out of each 100 persons furnishing data for the 1928-_

29 edition, 85.09 per cent attended college and 73 per
cent were graduated. There is no analysis of the names
that have been added in 1930-31, but the gradually
growing percentage of college-trained persons in this
directory during the last thirty years warrants the
inference that is is now even larger than 85 per cent.

The age of those enrolled suggests that recognition
is not hasty, and that it awaits more than ordinary
achievement. Usually it takes educators at least sev-
enteen years to make “Who’s Who,” while writers
may not expect such distinction short of twenty-two
years and business men in less than thirty-one years.
There are, of course, exceptions,.as Thornton Wilder,
who got his A.M. in Princeton in 1925, and Oliver
La Farge his A.M. at Harvard in 1929. The averagy
age of admission is slightly above 50 years.

There are several other interesting infererices to ~

be made, but the one which stands out most boldly
is that educational attainment is “most conducive to
creditable notability.” Surpassing notability is now
and then achieved without it. And there are still, as

‘there were in ancient times, those who “add fame to
fame by their very concealment.”—From “The New |

York Times.”

MRADOR
fe VEREEN 4 Xe

BELL "

Well, folks, and you and you, Fend and Moiety have
at last tired of their sojourn in Mars. The news of
the stock market crash has reached Mars, so in the
words of Moiety, “Let’s go back and see America
Burst!’ So they changed the oil in the rocket and
were soon ready to set off. Or maybe it should be
“sit off.’ Anyhow they were ready to leave.

They wanted to get back in time for Fend to be
initiated. into the Hay Fever Club. His little pledge
button of the dustiest goldenrod was now, even now,
upon his lapel. That reminds me of my old friend
Lap; well do I remember when lapel em on the
two-yard line. To get back to the theme, Fend was
hurrying home to be initiated into the Goldilocks Club
and was. going to use the club td beat off the three
bears on his lapel. No, one thousand, yea a thousand
and one times no-—equals no. The Hay Fever Club.
Remember the old song “I’m fever blowing bubbles”?
To enter this club one must be able to sneeze four-
teen times and must also have water on his sneeze.

The earth is in view! They are nearly back after
a trip through the blue. Moiety has lost his voice again
and is sitting in glum silence. The earth draws rap-
idly near and soon they can tell the different cities
by the names on the airport roofs. The rocket glides
(they are so glide to be back to earth) down and
drops gracefully into the Mississippi River which
happens to be flowing by at that very moment. Now
wasn’t that a coincidence? It seems that there was
a big flood going on at this time and everybody’s
house was floating down the river and pieces of fur-
niture were everywhére. Moiety like to have
drowned. He went down three times and came up
twice but that was all right because he came up on
the last two. So here they go floating down the river
without a care in the world except they were won-
dering whose cow that was in the motorboat. Fend
was riding down the river on somebody’s dining room
table and Moiety accompanied him on the piano. The
moral of this great flood is: Don’t spit on the floor!
These floods often run up into money but never run
up into the mountains. Fend and Moiety began to
see a school (headed by an absent-minded school-
master) of porpoise playing around in the water.
At first they thought that they had no reason for
doing this but later decided that they were doing it
on porpoise. They also decided (when in the water
do as the ducks do) that they must be near the ocean.
So Fend got out his surveyor’s transom and made a
few observations not to speak of a par 4 and a birdie.
He saw a big devil-fish that had washed up on the
shore (why do they build the seashore so close to
the ocean anyhow?) and they went over to see it.
A native of the country whereabouts of which we
speak, was standing beside himself with Grief, who
was alone with his thoughts. Fend walked up and in-
spected the big devil-fish and said in dismayed tones:

“Oh look at the pretty platapus.”

The man looked at him with awe in his voice and
said, “Awe, that aint no platapus, that an octagon.”

Fend quickly apoligized and jumped into his speed-
ster and sped away leaving Moiety to wash the
dishes and do the nicknacks.

And thus, my fair weather friends, comes the dra-
matic conclusion of this romance of the gay ninetys.
You will see our dear heroes, Fend and Moiety, again
in “Fend and Moiety Reek of Havoc in the Balkans”
and “Fend and Moiety and Their Mama Doll in
Seclusion,” in which they shake hands with many
old, familiar faces. Now good-bye to you—. and you
and you.

S’ALL

of them, as shown in a recent sale, was $265,000.
Ownership of a seat entitles one to access to the
floor of the exchange and the right to buy and
sell stocks on it.

But even this price is low compared to that
which seats were bringing in April, At that time
one went for $480,000. The sharp drop in turnover
of stocks has caused the corresponding decrease in
the value of the trading privileges.

“Prohibition is not an issue in the Republi-
can party, and I don’t believe it is in the Demo-
cratic party.”—Sen. Simeon D. Fess.

The Chicago Herald-Examiner scooped all
Chicago_newspapers when it published the
copyrighted story one day that Rogers Horns-
by would assume the mangership of the Chica-
go Cubs. But that evening the Tribune an-
nounced over its radio that it was all a mistake,
and that Horsnby would not take over the

reins of the Chi Cubs. But very soon there-
after, this same Tribune published another
copyrighted story saying that the Rajah was
the boss ‘from then on. Quite a mixup, and
probably the only time that a copyright has
ever been granted twice on the same story.

Y

Teacher—What is an alibi?
Bright Boy—Being somewhere where youiain't.
