- THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 27, 1930

so

Side Line Shots

At a Typical Wildcat Fight Against
Odds
By P. R. Alderman

It would take a dyed-in-the-wool pessi-
mist to complain about the Wildcat nine
that Coach Monk presented against
Georgetown in the season’s opener fast
Thursday. They’re good and have the
fight too!

The four pitchers, with the excep-
tion of Captain Kugler, started out in
midseason form. The 'Cats’ leader
seemed to have started off on the
wrong foot but will undoubtedly come
back to match his last year’s per-
formances.

“Lefty” Thompson, sole left-hander that
Davidson can boast, went great to pull the
Cats out of a bad hole in the George-
town game. His slow ball had the visiting
batsmen finding nothing but air
their bats most of the time.

with

To further. brighten battery pros-
pects, “Doc” Henderson completely
bewildered the Hilltoppers with plenty
of curves and then clinched the game
with a hefty blow that was good for
two bases.

John McInnis proved a match for one
of Davidson’s strongest diamond foes, the
Oak Ridge Cadets, twirling an airtight
game but being deprived of victory by
untimely miscues on the part of his team-
mates.

“Sleepy” Goodson shows very evi-
dent signs of being the ’Cats’ leading
slugger this year, starting the season
off with a triple and two singles out
of four times up. His fielding speaks
for itself. .

“Red” Parish demonstrated the fact
that it doesn’t take size to sock the old
apple ‘for a circuit clout. His home run
blow was the only thing that saved the
Wildcats from a shutout at the hands of
Oak Ridge.

One outfielder’s post and short-stop
are the weak points that Coach Monk
will have to bother about for the next
few days. There’s good material for
both positions but experience is need-
ed more than anything else before
some costly errors will be eliminated.

Jim Proctor had a bad break that kept
him from starting in the opener but
should be ready to do his part of the hit-
ting before long. “Happy” Gladstone took
his place on first-base and made a good
job of it althoughche is regularly at home
behind the bat.

The impression given in the opening
game, at least in the-first part of it,
. was that Davidson was going to be
weak at the bat this spring. However,
the nine took big steps/toward re-
moving this feeling in the latter part
of the game.

With the experience of several games to
give the members of the team what is
lacking in the way of coordination as a
nine, the Wildcats will have a clear road
for a victorious season. For, with a little
more poise, there is nothing to prohibit
such.

This does not mean| that some hard
foes won't be met but the fact that a
nine as good as the Georgetown Uni-
versity put up was defeated is con-
vincing evidence that there will be no
foe on Davidson's schedule which will
prove undefeatable.

Wildcats Open Baseball
Season With A 7-6 Win

Over Georgetown’s Nine

Hilltoppers Get Fast Start to Lead
For Six Innings Before Pitcher
Weakens

The Davidson Wildcats opened the 1930
baseball season with a thrilling win over
the Hilltoppers of Georgetown University,
an extra inning being required before the
Wildcatts could claim a 7 to 6 verdict.
“Doc” Henderson, who had been sent in-
to the pitching box for the ’Cats in the
seventh, after his teammates had tallied
four times leaving them only one run be-
hind the visitors, pitched shut-out ball for
four innings. This same man_ brought
across the winning run in the tenth, when
“Red” Parish singled with the bases load-
ed to drive “Doc” home.

With the game half over, it looked as
if it was going to be all Georgetown. The
visitors started fast, and when the David-
son half of the sixth inning rolled around,
the visitors were coasting along nicely,
leading 6 to 1. Poole, the visitor’s mounds-
man who had pitched nice ball for five
innings, weakened at this point, and be-
fore relief could be sent in, the ’Cats had
tallied four more runs, to shorten the
margin to one run. In the ninth the Wild-
cats tied the count when Goodson
tripled into right, stepping across the plate
when McInnis duplicated his slugging
with another triple to left center.

In the tenth after Henderson had sent
the visitors back to their benches with no
runs or hits, he started the ball rolling
with a scorching double. Armfield took
his base when hit by a pitched ball. Both
advanced when Morris miscued McMil-
lan’s bunt to the pitcher. With the bases
loaded, Red Parish sent a hard single be-
tween second and short, sending in Hen-
derson with the winning run.

For the visitors, McCarthy looked espe-
cially good, slamming out a triple, double,
and a single in five trips. Aside from the
playing of Henderson, Goodson was the
hitting star for the 'Cats, garnering a
triple and two singles in four attempts.

Georgetowft AB RHOA
Monnisied: brossscecses sees ye ee wees bee
McGanthy. cl 6 2sses25 soos Mo 6) 8)
DUNN SS) ose cnc us oeee a eae 5 <0) <2).74 4)
Mooney; lbicascccosaccsanees 300 41
WH Oy elt: Soe sen see eas (0) (0) it)
Hers: 2Dpcckccece eos ea es 4o1-7.0F 323
RAD Di nie soo eec neous sess eoee G22. 253) 0
MONOVAN + Cece sek cent ce 50091
BOOM D = sassnscncesccnosueno. 01 020
Bainan, p sssveicssecs: oeee 100410
Motels soos one ese es 39 6 9*27 9

*None out when winning run was

Stellar Pitcher

McInnis, veteran varsity hurler, started
his third season with excellent pitching
against Oak Ridge. He is also a valuable
out-fielder, as evidenced by his brilliant
play in left field against Georgetown

Davidson Trackmen
To Meet U. Of S. C.

First Outdoor Meet Will Be Hard
Test for Wildcat Cinder Squad -

On March 27 the varsity track team will
engage the University of South Carolina
in a dual meet. This will be the first out-
door meet of the season and will be a real
test for the team. Several men are being
taken in each event.

The strength of the South Carolina
team has not been shown this early in
the season, but they are expected to have
their usual good aggregation.

scored.

Davidson AB R H OA
Parish, 3b SUSesu cee aseuawOr Om lew
MIN Gh Chireccsnucsusoecceead Gl leg 20
GGGd8On 2b eee ce ccc e oe ack (Vee aes Fee kara) |
Gladstone, 1b--------....4...5 0 1 9 0
MGINNISmlf cusccesucccusauec SF 40
GOvVINgtOn tt) <cececcecuscan 4.10) 2-0
IMMtHIseatt- calsucceoucoscucus 10000
KWOBIGK 8 Di bocce osessoosweLs 10000
MIBOMpsON) ip: acuansaccccccs OW Ww 2
IFENUELSON) cp: cosceccascacuees Ik 0's
IATINNGIOO acoususcrasbescssO 1 Ono
Bernhardt, 65. csceus=steee, Ol G0
MOMMA (88> Gavcgeoccccuce 10000
MOtals cove ccessse ce oc aeenGb). 27210590 10

The following men are making the trip, Varsity Baseball
entering the events IfSted:
100-yd. dash—Whittle, McCall Averages
220-yd, dash—-McGehee, Gorham. ina a 5 oy re
440-yd. dash—Brohard, McGehee, Mid- Genoa Dae: 824 “500
dleton, Drake. Bernhardt ............2 © 1 500
880-yd. run—Neal, Norton. Headsisbn ae 211 «2500
Mile run—Lafferty, Goodwin, Wilson. Gévington: 22..02.2.0222 8 1 2 .250
2-mile run—Brannon, Murphy, West. Pare Gocco otk cae 9 1 2° .222
High hurdles—Whittle,, George. Gikdbtote 22.1262 = 5 0 1 .200
Low hurdles—Whittle, George. Math facseehcscceLoce 5 0 1 .200
“High jump—Gardner, Allen, Wilson. Meinnit: co 5-- es (fy a BS}
Broad jump—McCall, Gorham, Gardner. ProetGh ee cec ccs eg 3 0 0 .000
Pole vault-Brock, Smith, Roane, McMillan _____-______. 4 0 0 .000
Stroud. Armfield ___-_--_-_---- 6 1 0 .000
Discus—Boyle, Hall, Regen. Kugler .....2..=--.... 1 0 0 .000
Shot—Boyle, Hall, Brock. Thompson --_---------- 0 0 0 .000
Javelin—McCall, Coble, Brock. Motels wcusecaccceos 68 817 .250

DELUXE ICE CREAM

Brick Eskimo Pies
At Students’ Store and Dealers

MOORESVILLE ICE CREAM COM PANY

Mooresville, N. C.

Special Designs

SPRINKLE YOUR
DAY WITH

ae

AMELS

CHEER

Consider the pleasure

that curls from each Camel g Let it mark

the stops and turns of a busy day g and

sprinkle your thoughts and moods with its rare

aroma g ‘As you pass from one thing to

another g call ‘“‘time out?’ now and then g

for a fragrant interlude g and have a Camel

g just because it’s good!

Bony

Always count on Camels for an extra measure of pleasure.
They never tire your taste nor leave an unpleasant after-
taste. To have a Camel “just because it’s good” means
‘you'll find each Camel cool and refreshing . . . mild and
mellow . . . blended from the choicest tobaccos grown.

© 1929, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco
Cc i Sal N.C.

pany,

&
