THE

DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 8, 1930

L. B. Knott of Duke Wins
Oratorical Contest Held
At Davidson Last Week

Margaret Andrews of North Caro-
lina College for Women Wins
ond Honors

RECREATION FOLLOWS

__—

ICs Matthews Davidson Represen-
tative, is Awarded Third Place

Last Friday night L. B. Knott, of Duke
University, won the regional oratorical. con-
test of the State of North Carolina. This
contest was held in the Eumanean Literary
Society Hall under the auspices of the Na-
tional Oratorical Society. Second place in
this contest went to Miss Margaret An-
drews, of North Carolina College for Wom-
en in Greensboro; third place fell to the
lot of J. C. Matthews, a member of the
Junior Class of Davidson. The other: con-
testants in this debate were: J. H. McKin-
non ‘of North Carolina State, Miss Mary
Huff of Asheville Normal, H. Hobgood of
the University of North Carolina, and W. C.
Pope of High Point College. The debate
was on the Constitution of the United States
of America. There were three judges for
this debate, all of whom are members of the
Davidson faculty. These were: T. W. Lingle,
Professor of French Language and Litera-
ture; Dr. C. K. Brown, Associate Professor
of Economics, and Professor E. J. Erwin,
Professor of English.

After the debate a reception was held in
Eu Hall. At this reception, refreshments
were given to the debaters and their guests.

Following this regional contest there will
be the zone contest which will be held in
Asheville on May 16. At this contest Mr.
Knott will represent the State of North Car-
olina, The other Southern States will also
send a representative to this debate, The
winner of this will then take a trip to Los
Angeles in the summer and there compete
for the grand prize of $1,500 in the finals.
Davidson students will well remember that
last year Allan Frew, of this year Senior
Class, won the regional, the zone; and finally
won third place in the national contest in
Los Angeles.

J; C. Matthews, who represented Davidson
at this oratorical contest, is a member of
Alpha Phi Epsilon, an honorary fraternity
recognizing ability in oratory and debating,
and a member of the International Relations
Club. His opponent, whom he had to defeat
before he could represent Davidson at this
contest, was M. F. McDavid.

Track Team Elects
McCall as Captain

Sisson Elected Varsity Manager,
Watt Fresh Manager

At a meeting of the lettermen in track
Tuesday morning, Joe McCall was elected
captain of the team for the 1931 season, and
C. A. Sisson was elected varsity manager.
At the same time, James Watt was chosen
Freshman manager. Men named by the Ath-
letic Association as Junior managers are T.
M. Gignilliat, J. B. Stevens, A. J. Graham,
and H. H. Harris, alternate.

McCall holds the college record for the
broad jump, having broken the old record
this spring which had stood since 1896. He
br¢@g his own mark two or three times dur-
ing the season, his best mark being 23 feet,
one-half inch, set in the Wake Forest meet.
He also throws the javelin. Besides his let-
ter in track, McCall has also won his mono-
gram in football, being one of the fastest
men on the squad last fall. He is a member
of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity.

Sisson, the new manager, has been prom-
inent in many lines on the campus. He is a
member of Phi Gamma Delta, the Beaver
Club, the Court of Control, and was recently
elected Senior member of the Y. M. C. A.
Board of Control.

On Short or Long Trips

your personal effects
should always be

rotected against

ire, Theft and
Wreck hazards.

In fact, your per-
sonal effects need
protection all the
time..

Personal Effects
y Insurance protects
your belongings all
ab ecg when--
‘ever are away
from home and not
in storage, Let us
we answer your ques-

tions ad quote rates.
It's safer to have insurance—

and not need it!

Independence Trust Co.

- Insurance Departmen
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Davidson Graduates
Finish at Seminary

Davidson: graduates compose almost one-
third the graduating class of Union Theo-
logical Seminary in Richmond, the list of
those receiving degrees on May 7 reveals.
Their names follow: W. P. Brown, W. A.
Christian, John W. Crinkley, T. A. Guiton,
W. I. Howell, Leighton M. McCutchen, R,
B. MacQueen, G. R. Sims, R. S. Wilson,
E. D. Witherspoon, and J. W. Foster. Chris-
tian, McCutchen, and Wilson were awarded
fellowships and will continue their theo-
logical studies for another year.

Rev. Dr. James Porter Smith, president
and professor of systematic theology of the
Presbyterian Seminary at Campinas, Brazil,
has been elected professor of systematic the-
ology at Union Seminary for one year, suc-
ceeding Dr. Thomas Cary Johnson, who has
been elected professor-emeritus after nearly
forty years spent as professor at the sem-
inary. Dr. Smith, who will be on furlough
from his work in Brazil, is a distinguished
minister of the Presbyterian Church. On his
last visit to this country he delivered a series
of lectures at Princeton Theological Sem-
inary and at Union Seminary.

Early registrations for the 1930-31 term
at Union Seminary show a wide representa-
tion of colleges and universities from which
the entrants have received degregs. Approxi-
mately one-third of. the new class has been
enrolled already, according to the registrar’s
office, and they represent ten institutions in
six states. Among these are: Hampden-Syd-
ney, Davidson, Washington and Lee, Rand-
olph-Macon, Presbyterian College of South
Carolina, Moody Bible Institute, Boston Upi-
versity, Southwestern, Duke, and the Uni-
versity of South Carolina.

Audition Tryouts to Be
Held for Radio Contest

Cullum Names Fifteenth of May for
Local Contest

Prof. E.. J. Cullum, local chairman of
the Fourth Radio Audition sponsored by the
Atwater Kent Foundation, announces that
the local tryouts for the State Audition will
be held on the fifteenth of May. Any boy
between the ages of 18 and 23 is eligible
to compete in the local tryouts. The boy and
girl winning out in the local contest will
represent Davidson at the State Audition in
Charlotte over WBT ,in the fall.

The aim of the Fourth National Radio
Audition is to discover the best young men
and women singers in the United States and
to give to those surviving local, state and
district tests opportunities for further train-
ing, recognition, and reward. Originated as
an altruistic experiment in 1927 and con-
tinued in 1928 and 1929 because of popular
demand, the Foundation’s aim has been more
than justified.

As awards to the first ten singers, five
boys and. five girls, $25,000 has been offered.
Winners ‘of first place (one boy and one
girl) will receive $5,000 each and two years’
tuition in an American conservatory; win-
ners of second place, $3,000 each and one
year’s tuition; winners of third place, $2,000
and one year’s tuition; winners of fourth
place, $1,500 did one year’s tuition; winners
of fifth place, $1,000 and one year’s tuition.

Tens of thousands of young men and
women participated in elimination contests
in more than a thousand communities during
the three Auditions that have so far been
held. The winners of these three Auditions
are now far on the way to success and fame
in the world of music. Edward Kane, of

LOCAL GIRL APPEARS

(Continued from page 1)
Women. It has been presenting amateur

plays of the highest type for the past nine
years under the direction of W. R. Taylor,
a member of the English faculty of that in-
stitution. Especial attention is given to scen-
ery and theatrical effects, which have ‘added
much to realism in the plays. This year,
presentations have been made by the Play-
Likers at Chapel Hill and Hollins College,
Roanoke, Va., and have been acclaimed as
genuinely artistic productions.

In “After Dark,” which is a typical nine-
teenth century melodrama, the college or-
ganization will reproduce after the old man-
ner all the 14 sets of scenery with mechan-
ical effects such as a running locomotive, a
railway tunnel, moving boats, and lighted
windows in the background. Correct cos-
tumes of the period will be used, and or-
chestral and vocal selections will be a part
of the play.

In reviving the melodrama, the Play-
Likers are opening a new field in amateur
play production. The play will be given sin-
cerely and with every effort to reproduce
faithfully the original presentation made in
London in 1868.

The burning question of the day: “Who
gives the bride away in Scotland?” —
Colegian,.

Father: “Is dey half fares for chillun.”
Conductor: “Yes, under 14.”

Father: “Dat’s all right. We have got
only six.”

Greensboro, N. C., and Irine Rowe, of

Wooster, Ohio, were last year’s winners.

Dramatic Club Officers

The Red and Black Masquers at
a called meeting last Monday night
held their annual elections for next
year's officers. J. S. Meacham was
elected president; Horace Erwin,
director; and John Marvin, secre-
tary-treasurer.

The Dramatic Club has presented
numerous plays and sketches at
each of their meeting g the
past year, and have also made sev-
eral public appearances.

One of the plays, entitled “Octo-
‘roon,” was written by a member of
the club. Due to the lack of time,
the Masquers have decided not to
work on further productions for
this year. Professor Erwin will con-

tinue to direct the club.

Dolly : “Has Snooty traveled much?”
Mayo: “Has she? She’s been to half the
places on her suitcase labels.”

Dot (going through prison): “And why
Warden, are they all eating yeast cakes?”

Warden: “That's how we keep them
from breaking out, my dear.”

The woman's debating team of some
college, it was announced the night before
the debate, had changed its mind and in-
stead of taking the affirmative as sched-
uled decided to take the negative.’ —
News iter. A Woman's Privilege.

Inspector: “I thought you said your
room was spotless.”

Student: “Yes, ma’am. Not a clean spot
in it.”

...in a cigarette it’s

“PROMISES FILL no sack”... it is not words,
but éaste, that makes you enjoy a cigarette.
But you're entitled to a// the fragrance and
flavor that fine tobaccos can give; don’t be
content with. less. You can expect better taste,
richer aroma, from Chesterfields — because in

makigg them, we put taste first —

“TASTE above everything”

C

MILD... and yet

THEY SATISFY

hesterfield

FINE TURKISH end DOMESTIC tobaccos, not only BLENDED but CROSS-BLENDED’

© 1929, Laoonrr & Mysas Tosco Co.
