.

TRACK MEET WITH os a
WAKE FOREST | , “STUDENT BODY.
SATURDAY ORMAL,
APRIL 26
“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS” peed areal td
Vol. XVII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 24, 1930

No. 26

“Y” Cabinet For Coititnty
Year Installed At Easter
Vesper Service

New Cabinet Includes Men Promi-
nent ‘in All Phases of Campus
Activity

IMPRESSIVE CEREMONY ae

Rusk Relieves Brown of Duties as
Head of Organization

The new officers and cabinet members of
the Y. M. C. A. were formally installed last
Sunday night as a part of the annual Easter
vesper service. After the song service the
officers and cabinet were called upon the
stage where Frank Brown, the retiring pres-
ident of the Y..M. C. A., read a part of the
Scriptures and Dean Rusk, newly elected
president, led the congregation in a prayer to
close the meeting.

Dean Rusk, Atlanta, Ga., president and
retiring vice-president, a member of the
Kappa Alpha social fraternity, varsity bas-
ketball, and the “D” Club, was installed as
the new president of the “Y” for the com-
ing year. The vice-presidents for the com-
ing year are R. P. Enloe and C. W. Arnold,
Greensboro, N. C., a member of the Kappa
Sigma social fraternity, and a member of
the student council.

Appointed to be head of the weekly meet-
ings for next year was J. A. Jones, Laurin-
Laurinburg, a member of the Sigma Alpha
Epsilon social ‘fraternity, assistant manager
of football, Red and Black Masquers, and
Ghee GW: W. Fraley, ‘Barium Springs,
was named to ledd the deputations for the
following year. He is the retiring vice-presi-
dent of the Student Body, a member of the
Student Council, “D” Club, varsity football,
and captain-elect of football. Appointed to
direct the vocational guidance for next year

“was C. N. Burch, of Memphis, Tenn. He
is a member of Eta Sigma Phi, Interna-
tional Relations Club, Eumanean Literary
Society, and manager of the wrestling team.
M. W. Norfleet, of Winston-Salem, was
named head of the social center for next
year. He is a member of Alpha Phi Epsilon,
International Relations Club, Eta Sigma
Phi, and Omega Phi Alpha.

The social life of the “Y” next year will
be-directed by: C. H. Koodykoontz, of Blue-
field, W. Va., who is a member of the Phi
Delta Theta social fraternity, Student Coun-
cil, retiring president of the Junior Class,
president-elect of Student Body, and varsity
football. H. S. Covington, of Red Springs,
was appointed to. have charge of the chapel
services for next year. He is a member of
the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, Court
of Control, Student Council, varsity foot-
ball, varsity baseball, varsity wrestling, ‘“D”
Club, Sergeant R. O. T. C., and alternate
captain of football. The freshmen work for
next year will be in charge of W. B. Good-
son, of Lincolnton, who is a member of the
Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, retiring
vice-president of the Athletic Association,
president-elect of Athletic Association, var-
sity basketball, varsity baseball, “D’ Club,
Student Council, and captain-elect of bas-
ketball.

J. S. Meacham, of Birmingham, Ala., will
haye control of the boys’ work next year.
He is a member of the Kappa Alpha social
fraternity and Sergeant-Major in R. O. T. C.
F. L. Wood, of St. Louis, Mo., will have

(Continued on page 6)

Musical Fraternity
To Hold Convention

The national convention of the Mu Beta
Psi, musical fraternity, will be held here
Friday and Saturday, April 25 and 26. Dele-
gates from a large part. of the United States
are expected to attend this meeting. Friday
night, the visitors will hear the Glee Club
concert in Chambers Auditorium, and later
will have a business meeting in the Dome
Room. ;

The delegates are invited to stay over and
attend the Davidson-Wake Forest track
meet, which will be held here Saturday aft-
erfioon, and it is hoped that many of the
visitors will be able to be present at this
event. :

Easter Service Is

_ Featured By Music

Last Sunday the “Y” vesper service was
the scene of the annual Easter musical sery-
ice. This year it was more impressive than
ever in the new Chambers Auditorium for
the first time and with the new organ.

Paul Fry opened the service with an organ
prelude, followed by “The Palms” played

Vsoftly on the organ, while Fred Poag read

the story of the “Triumphal Entry.” Carl
Pritchett, the retiring president of the Stu-
dent Body, then led in prayer. The next
number was a hymn by the audience stand-
ing, “O Worship the King.”

As Paul Fry softly accompanied him on
the organ with “Break Thou the Bread’ of
Life,” Fred Poag again_read_the ‘Story of
the Last Supper,” and then the “Story of
the Crucifixion,” as the quartet sang “The
Old Rugged Cross.’ Following this Mrs.
Watts and Professor Cullum responded with
a very beautiful duet, “He Did Not, Die in
Vain.” The assembly then sang ‘When I
Survey the Wondrous Cross.”

A violin quartet played softly as Fred
Poag read of “The Resurrection” on the
first Easter morning, and Mrs. Cullum sang
“Hosanna” in response.. Then as the assem-
bly sang “All Hail the Power of Jesus’
Name,” the new “Y” cabinet for the coming
year came out on the platform. Frank
Brown, the retiring president of the Y. M.
C. A., held a short consecration service and
Dean Rusk, president for the ensuing year,
closed with a prayer for the “Y” and the
newly chosen leaders.

D. S. altar Elected

Pres. Senior Class

Representative Chosen From Junior
Class for Student Council

D. S.
ed president of the rising Senior Class last
week on the third ballot. La Far is one of
the most popular men on the campus, his ahil-
ity being recognized early in his college ca-
reer. He was a member of the Beaver Club,
honorary leadership fraternity for Sopho-
mores. He is at present junior baseball man-
ager and a member of Kappa Sigma, social
fraternity.

Running with La Far in the race for pres-
ident were R. M. King, Nashville, Tenn.,
and A. B. McClure, Rabun Gap, Ga:, who
were eliminated on the first ballot; W. W.
Fraley, Barium Springs, N. C., eliminated
on the second ballot, and J. A. Jones, Laurin-
burg, N. C. on the third.

The new members of the Student Council
elecied from the present Junior Class are:
Dean Rusk, Atlanta, Ga.; W. B. Goodson,
Lincolnton, N. C.; H. S. Covington, Red
Springs, N. C.; W..W. Fraley, Barium
Springs, N. C., and J. A. Jones, Laurinburg,
N. C. The other men nominated for this
office were: R. M.°King, Nashville, Tenn. ;
A. W. McLean, Lumberton, N. C.; A. B.
McClure, Rabun Gap, Ga., and D. S. La Far,
whose name was withdrawn when his elec-
tion to the presidency of the class became
known.

New Men Initiated
By Reporters’ Club

Wiley Elected President of Organi-
zation for Coming Year

At the regular bi-monthly. meeting of the
Reporters’ Club of The Davidsonian, the
following new members were initiated: R. H.
Alderman, G. E. Bailey, J. E. Boyd, E. O.
Guerrant, J. E. Lake, D. D. McBryde, R. L.
McCallie, Geo. Miller, W. F. Mulliss, H. F.
Nichol, S. P. Preston, N. C. Raies, B. B.
Sugg, and B. B. Taylor. C. F. Myers and
W B. Ward will be initiated at the next
meeting of the club.

These men, most of whom are Freshmen,
were selected from a large group of boys
who have been working all year on The
Davidsonian. Election to the club requires
a great deal of hard work and some talent.
It is the greatest journalistic honor which
can come to a man during his first two years
at’ Davidson.

(Continued on Page 5)

La Far, Gastonia, N. C., was elect-

Chameleon to Appear
n

According to an announcement
made recently by the editor, R. F.
Jarrett, the second issue of The
Chameleon for the current year will
make its appearance about the fifth
of May.

The color and style of this ever-
changing literary medium of the
campus has not yet been announced.
Not only will the color and style
change, but the contributors, as
well, will, in most instances, be new
ones.

The contents will consist mainly
of short sketches interspersed with
poetry. However the poetic element
has shown up as very deficient this
time, providing a very limited se-
lection.

With the forthcoming issue of the
magazine the terms of service of
the present staff will terminate, af-
ter which a new group will be se-
lected, although another edition this
year is tentatively planned.

New Managing Editors
Take Control Of Paper

Dwelle, Lea, Martin, and Matthews
Form Capable Staff Which Takes
Over Control of Davidsonian

CHOSEN BY OLD STAFF

Members Have Active Interest in
Campus Activities

With this issue of The Davidsogian, the
four men selected as managing editors ‘as-
sume active control. These appointments were
made by the four retiring managing editors
before the Davidsonian election was held.
The new men, all members of the Junior
Class are: FE. C. Dwelle, Jr., W. S. Lea,
D. G. Martin, and W. H. Matthews.

All.of these men are members of the Re-
porters’ Club and have been active in journ-
alistic work on the campus. Dwelle, whose
home is in Charlotte, belongs to the Beaver
Club, Le Cercle Francaise, and Sigma Alpha
Epsilon, social fraternity.

W. S. Lea, from Knoxville, Tenn., is also
a member of the Beaver Club, the Glee Club,
and Phi Gamma Delta, social fraternity.
Matthews, who will fill the particular capac-
ity of athletic editor, has done much liter-
ary work while at Davidson. He is a: mem-
ber of the Philanthropic Literary Society,
and his home is in Marlin, Texas.

Martin, who lives in Covington, Ga., be-
longs to Le Cercle Francaise, and Sigma
Alpha Epsilon, social fraternity. He was a
member of last year’s basketball squad. In
addition to these activities, Martin was sec-
retary and treasurer of the Sophomore Class.

Inspection of Local
Military Unit Held

Davidson’s annual R. O. T. C. inspection
beginning Tuesday, April 22nd, was com-
pleted Wednesday afternoon, the 23rd, and
to all appearances was a complete success.
The entire program for the two days was
run off with clock-like precision and
showed the careful preparation which has
been going on for weeks.

Contrary to recent expectations, Colonel
Little, who, was to have had charge of the
inspection, was unable to be here on account
of illness, and was ordered to Walter Reed
Hospital for an operation in the immediate
future. However, his position was ably filled
by Captain St. Clair Woodward.-

On Tuesday Captain Woodward occu-
pied his time in talking with the president
of the college, Dr. Walter Lingle, and other
members of the faculty. He investigated
carefully the school and R. O. T. C. rec-
ords and seemed well pleased with them.
He also inspected all the arms‘ and other
equipment, gallery range, and drill fields.

The routine for Wednesday began with
an inspection of all R. O. T. C. classes held
that day in which he watched the methods
used in teaching and reciting. Scabbard and

(Continued on page 6)

Nat Speir Elected
Junior Class Head

At the close of the presidential elections
held last week by the rising “Junior Class,
Nat Speir, of Charlotte, was elected. Speir,
a prominent member of the student body,
is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, social
fraternity. He is one of the Church Com-
mittee of the local Y. M. C. A.

Three ballots were cast, Chester Arnold,
of Greensboro, and J. D. McConnell, of Da-
vidson, being eliminated on the first vote.
L. S. Raker, of Lexington, was eliminated
in the second ballot. In the final vote, Rob-
ert Gorrell, of Winston-Salem, was put out.
Robert Norton, of Rome, Ga., was nomi-
nated from the floor but withdrew from the
race.

The following men were nominated by
the Student Council Nominating Commit-
tee to be voted upon for the Junior repre-
sentatives in the Student Council: Chester
Arnold, Greensboro; Bob Gorrell, Wiyston-
Salem; Bill Rule, Knoxville, Tenn.; Roger
Enloe, Buchanan, Ga., and Don King, of
Bristol, Tenn. Archie Baker, Martin Miller,
Kemp Morton and: Steve Brown were nom-
inated from thg floor, These men will be
voted upon during the early part of this
week and the remaining elections will prob-
ably be run off some time during the next
ten days.

Bird New Editor Of
“Quips and Cranks”

Is Prominent in Many Other
Activities Here on the
Campus

On the first ballot, A. R. Bird, of Wash-
ington, D. C., was elected editor-in-chief of
“Quips and Cranks” for the ensuing year.
The election is by class, the rising Junior
Class being allowed to select their own
editor.

Andy is well known on the campus, hav-
ing received, in addition to this honor, recog-
nition in the following organizations: Sigma
Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity, Alpha
Phi Epsilon, honorary forensic fraternity,
International Relations Club, Reporters’
Club, Scabbard and Blade, honorary mili-
tary fraternity, Delta Pi Kappa, honorary
journalistic fraternity, Eta Sigma Phi, hon-
orary classical fraternity, and Phi Gamma
Delta, social fraternity. He is also vice-
president of the Forensic Council and a
member of the varsity debating team.

To win this election, Bird defeated J. V.
D. Middleton and S. S. Wiley. Middleton,
who was eliminated on the first ballot, num-
bers among his honors the following: Retir-
ing secretary-treasurer of the Reporters’
Club, membership in International Relations
Club and in Pi Kappa Phi, social fraternity.
Wiley, who was eliminated on the last bal-
lot, is the new president of the Reporters’
Club, retiring secretary-treasurer of the
Junior Class, member of Delta Pi Kappa,
honorary journalistic fraternity, Le Cercle
Francaise, honorary French fraternity, the
International Relations Club, and Sigma
Alpha Epsilon, social fraternity. He also is
a wearer of the Golden Quill and a mem-
ber of the Beaver Club. These men have
played an important part in the literary work
of Davidson life throughout their stay here.

O. D. K. Tap Day

The spring tap day of the local
circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, na-
tional leadership fraternity, will be
held the morning of April 29 ac-
cording to a statement made re-
cently by Zeb V. Long, Jr., head of
the local circle. Prominent men of
the Junior and Senior class will be
tapped by the old members during
the Chapel Services and will signify
their intention to receive this honor
by following the old.member back
to the platform.

Head of Student Body
To Return To Davidson
As Y.M.C.A. Secretary

Carl Pritchett Chinten to Succeed
Camper O’Neal in Work on
Local Campus

IS OUTSTANDING LEADER

Present Secretary to Study at
Columbia University Next
Year

An announcement was made recently by
the Executive Committee the Young
Men's Christian Association of
College, that Carl R. Pritchett,
N. C., will sueceed Camper O'Neal as sec-
retary of this organization. Mr. O'Neal's
resignation will become effective in) June,
and Mr. Pritchett will take over his new
duties in September.

of
Davidson
Reidsville,

The incoming secretary is a member of -
this year’s Senior Class and is one of the
outstanding men on the campus this year.
He is the president of the Student Body, and
was vice-president of the Student Body last
year. He was on the. Student Council for
three years, and was on the Y. M. C. A.
Cabinet one year, In his Junior year he was
captain of the basketball team, high scorer,
and a member of the “D" Club. His work
was outstanding on the Davidson quint this
year, and he was one of the best forwards
in the State. He has been on the varsity de-
hating team for three years, and he is a
member of Omicron Delta Kappa, national
leadership fraternity. He is also a member of
Alpha Phi Epsilon, forensic fraternity. He
is very well liked by the students, and it is
expected he will make an excellent secre-
tary.

Mr. O'Neal has had this position since
he graduated in 1928 from Davidson. He
plans to attend Columbia University next
year, During his stay here as a student and
later as secretary of the “Y,” he has won
the friendship and confidence. of all with
whom he has come in contact.

This is a_ responsible position, because
aside from the amount of clerical work
which has to be done in the “Y,” the sec-
retary meets many students on the campus
in the form of councillor and advisor. An-
other important duty is work with the Fresh-
men during the whole, year, but especially
in the fall. A great responsibility falls on
the secretary at the first of every year in
making the Freshmen feel at home, and he
must also bring them together later in the
year in a social way. Camper O'Neal has
handled this position in an enviable man-
ner and has gained a unique position on the
campus. Through his efforts a new electric
radio was puftchased, the Social Room was
improved, and the “Y" rooms have become
a real place of recreation for many  stu-
dents.

Plans For Student
Banquet Under Way

Student Body Leaders for Next
Year to be Installed at That
Time ©

As was announced to the Student Body
Tuesday morning at chapel, plans are rap-
idly going forward toward perfecting the
big Student Body Banquet and installation
ceremony for next Tuesday evening. Va-
rious committees, appointed by W. B. Mc-
Guire, Senior President, are busy with their
tasks, and it seems that every detail will
be well cared for when the bell sounds for
Davidson men to assemble at Chambers
Building.

The new Student Council will.be formally
installed at that time, as will other leaders
for the coming year’s work. An impressive
ceremony has been planned in which both
old and new leaders will take part. The pro-
ceedings will be kept secret until the time
appointed, however. Those in charge are en-
thusiastic in their expectations that the oc-
casion will be one of the greatest ever par-
ticipated in by a Davidson group.

Ticket sales are going forward satisfac-
torily, and it is the hope of the Seniors to

(Continued on Page 5)

