‘THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 24, 1930

Alumni Personal Mention

Rev. W. C. Smith, ’20, of Chinquapin,
N. C,, is recovering from a serious acci-
dent suffered several weeks ago. For three
weeks he was unconscious in a Wilmington
hospital. Complications also developed. He
is now improving, however.

W. K. Pritchett, '29, and Glenn A. Fry,
’29, who are doing graduate work at Duke
University in Greek and psychology, re-
spectively, were among the men who were
given scholarships for the term 1930-1931.

Among the Davidson alumni who. have
been selected ‘as speakers at various com-
mencements this spring are Rev. A. A. Mc-
Lean, D.D., '06, of Lenoir, to deliver the
baccalaureate sermon at Mitchell College;
and Rev. B. R. Lacy, D.D., 06, of Rich-
mond, Va., to preach the baccalaureate ser-
mon before the Gastonia High School. Many
members of the Davidson faculty, alumni of
the college, are making addresses before
high schools in this section.

Chase Brenizer, 90, chairman of the Char-
lotte School Board, has resigned from that
post because of other business duties. Among
the men. mentioned as a possible successor
are J. P. Quarles, 99, and Dr. Oren Moore,
1908.

Friends will regret to learn of the death
of M. M. McKeithen, father of L. B. Mc=
Keithen, ’19, of Cameron, and Dr. A. M.
McKeithen, '16, of Louisville, Ky.; also of
the death of J. D. Hall, brother of F. P.
Hall, ’87, and Rev. J. K. Hall, '87, both
of Belmont.

Davidson alumni, who have recently been
elected moderators of Presbyteries are Rev.
C. N. Morrison, ’21, of Glenwood, Orange
Presbytery; Rev. S. A. Ewart, ’13, of Black-
stock, S. C., Bethel Presbytery, and Rev.
C. J. Hollandsworth, ’20, of Raleigh, Gran-
ville Presbytery.

Dr. J. T. Burrus, 98, of High Point, is
an unopposed candidate for the State Sen-
ate.

Rev. McKendree R. Long, ’10, of States-
ville, recently conducted a revival campaign
at Lumberton, in which there were approxi-
mately 500 who united with the church on
profession of faith. In newspaper dispatches,
the revival was described as one which had
“entered the class of campaigns conducted
by Billy Sunday and other widely famous
evangelists.”

Among the recent alumni visitors on the
campus were Dr. Everard A. Wilcox, '07,
of Rome, who was initiated into Phi Beta
Kappa while here; D. B. Wharton, ’25, of
New York; Proctor Thompson, ’28, of Gas-
tonia; S. L. Black, '29, of Albemarle; Wick
Black, ’26, of Salisbury; Rev. Geo. Rob-
ertson, D.D., ’78, of Mt. Holly; F=S. Wearn,
’28, of Boston, Mass., and E, A. Holmgreen,
29, of San Antonio, Texas.

Letters are being received from Davidson
alumni, signifying their intention of attend-
_ ing the approaching commencement of Da-

‘ vidson. Among some of them are W. F.
Milburn, °10, of Atlanta, Ga.; Rev. Norman
Johnson, ’15, of Blacksburg, Va.; Monroe
T. Gilmour, ’29, of Princeton, N. J.; Nel-
son Myers, ’29, of Nashville, Tenn., and
S. Y. Brown, ’29, of Atlanta, Ga.

W. B. Taylor, Jr., 08, who is in the

Alumni Marriages

Mauney-Gould

It was recently learned through the Salis-
bury Post that Robert L. Mauney, Jr., '28,
was married to Miss Margaret Gould, of
Long Island, N. Y. The date of the cere-
mony was not given. Mr. and Mrs. Mauney
aré now making their home in Durham,
where the former is connected with the

Coca Cola business, has recently moved
from Salisbury to New York to continue
his work. He is located at Gramercy Park,
22nd St., and Lexington Ave., New York,
New York.

Franklin Fricker, '21, who has been lo-
cated in Atlantic City, N. J., for the past
several months with the General Motors
Corporation, is moving to Baltimore within
a week and will be located at 101 West
39th St. He wrote that he expects to visit
Davidson on a trip south this summer.

Alumni are using their office for many
purposes, and during the past several weeks
the secretary has been busy fulfilling re-
quests. Some samples are a letter asking
the price ofthe 1930 annual by a former
member of that class; another wanting the
names and addresses of his classmates in
New York; another asking for a list of all
Davidson ministers between the classes of
1919 and 1924; another asking for photo-
graph and information about Dr. Lingle;
another requesting the 1930 football sched-
ule; another asking that the secretary order
Easter flowers for a designated party; an-
other wanting the schedule of baseball games
to be played at Davidson the remainder of
this season; another asking for an individ-
ual address; four letters asking for the en-
tire list of their classmates so that they
might be written individual letters about the
approaching commencement and reunions ;
several requests from newspapers on special
coverage of events; and probably others that
do not occur offhand.

Rev. D. G. Stewart, ’27, and his work at
the Dixon Memorial Church in Tarrant
City, Ala., near, Birmingham, was the sub-
stance of a long feature article recently -ap-
pearing in a Birmingham newspaper.

W. H. Bailey, '29, is temporarily located
in New York, having been sent to the home
office of the Equitable Life Assurance So-
ciety.

Jack Miller, ’26, of Winston-Salem, recent-
ly wrote: ‘Last night I became very much
engrossed in the alumni catalogue. You
might suggest that if there is interesting
reading to be found one may take this cata-
logue, begin with the class of 1840, study
the men and feel very proud of his Alma
Mater. I could hardly lay it down. It would
do all alumni of the institution good to read
it in this manner.”

F, P. Morton, Jr., ’23, is now located at
the Skyland Hotel, Hendersonville, N. C.

M. S. Beall, ’25, is now located in Cleve-
land, Ohio. His address is care The Hol-
lenden Hotel. He wrote that he expects to
be there for the next few months;

Within a week’s time the alumni secre-
tary received letters from alumni located in
Japan, Greece, Turkey, and Spain. Two of
these came on the same day, one the follow-
ing, and the other three days later.

GOLFERS’ TOURNEY

(Continued from page 3)
aggregation.

The freshman members of the Wildcat
team are ineligible for the State competi-
tions, and the absence of Wagner, Thomp-
son, and Caldwell will lessen Davidson’s
chances to finish with the, low scores in
the eliminations. The team which will rep-

;|resent Davidson is composed of Captain J.

K. Pepper, N. C. Hodgin, W. L. Hart, and
either R. D. Croom or J. D. McConnell.
Captain Pepper and Hart are the only mem-
bers of the squad who have seen action in
tournament play.

Important Meeting of
Alumni Council, May-10

The Davidson College Alumni Council
will hold its first meeting since last June
when they gather together at Davidson on
Saturday, May 10th, for a lengthy session.
H. Smith Richardson, '06, president of the
council and the Alumni Association, issued
a letter to the council last Friday, setting
the date and place of the meeting, and en-
closed to each individual member a list of
the important matters which are to come up
before that body for discussion and action.
Among the items which will receive con-
sideration are plans for the annual meet-
ing of the Alumni Association on Tuesday
of commencement, consideration of the re-
port and recommendations of the alumni
secretary and treasurer of the association,
nomination of alumni trustees and officers of
the association, which will later be submit-
ted to the alumni constitueficy by a mail
ballot, and several other important mat-
ters.

The Davidson Council is composed of Mr.
Richardson, as president, and J. D. Wood-
side, 98, of New York; Dr. Hamilton W.

New Addresses

Prof. C. W. Williams, ’27, University of
Alabama, Tuscaloosa, Ala.

Rev. A. C. Ray, ’25, 1661 N. Claiborne
Ave., New Orleans, La.
Dr. C. R. F. Beal, '18, Bellevue Drive,
E., Atlanta, Ga.
Dr. W. J. Martin, Jr., '23, Mayo Clinic,
Rochester, Minn.

Willard Keerans, ’27, 1558 Massachusetts
Ave., Cambridge, Mass.

S. T. McCloy, '18, 216 W.. 56th St., New
York, N. Y.

Dr. C. A. Dunn, '22, 375 Park Ave., New
York, N, Y.

H. M. Morris, ’23, 909 Farragut St., N.
W., Washington,.D. C.

Dr. N. G. Patterson, ’25, Tsingkiangpu,
Kiangsu Province, China.

R. F. LeFevre, ’29, 17 N. Fourth Ave.,

N.

McKay, '06, of Charlotte, 1928-1929 presi-
dent of the association and council; S. Clay
Williams, '05, of Winston-Salem; John W.
McAlister, °19, of Greensboro; Henry T.
Mills, ’06, of Greenville, S. C., and J. Ed-
ward Johnston, ’14, of Baltimore, Md.

Coatesville, Pa. ]
T. T. Jones, ’28, 826 Broadway, Balti-
more, Md.

Dr. J. C. Leonard, Jr., 24, Tennessee Coal
& Iron Hospital, Birmingham, Ala.

L. P. Hornthal, Jr., 29, 247 W. 72nd St.,
New York, N. Y.

B. H. Thurman, ’10, care The Glidden
Company, 82 Corona Ave., Elmhurst, Long
Island, N. Y.

E. V. Ramage, ’29, Columbia Theological
Seminary, Decatur, Ga. ;

M. A. Morrison, ’28, Barbeton City Club,
Barbeton, Ohio.

A. M. Hillhouse, ’24, 17 E. 42nd St., New
York, N. Y. :

W. M. Cox, ’24, 802 W. 32nd St., Balti-
more, Md.

Dr. H. H. Smith, ’23, Strong Memorial
Hospital, Rochester, N. Y.

W. R. Washam, ’11, Woodlawn, Md.

Rey. M. A. Boggs, ’15, care First Pres-
byterian Church, Hot Springs, Ark.

Rey. A. L. Currie, ’21, Moore Memorial
Presbyterian Church, Nashville, Tenn.

M. D. Thomasson, ’25, 1105-08 James
Bldg., Chattanooga, Tenn.

Births

Mr. Vardell Williamson, '27, and Mrs.
Williamson, of Greenville, S. C., announce
the birth of a son, William Vardell, Jr., on

April 16, 1930.

Improving transmission

business.
System made this service

creased usage.

“OUR

public has recognized this by its greatly in-

The Bell Laboratories improved the quality

* of sound transmission by modifying existing
apparatus and designing new. Western Elec-

tric manufactured the necessary equipment

Speeding up service

worthy, and the
the rates.

Reducing rates

Encouraging the long
distance habit

An interesting example of organization is
the development of long distance telephone
Men and women of the Bell

of the highest standards. Operating telephone
companies, working with the American Tele-
phone and Telegraph Company, shortened
the time for completing calls and reduced

In all a coordinated work, bringing to-

nation’s needs.

BELL SYSTEM

A nation-wide system of inter-connecting telephones

PIONEERING WORK HAS JUST

gether many and varied activities, and typical
of the way in which telephone service is
constantly being made a better tool for the

BEGUN”

~
