V. M. I. IN
LEXINGTON
SATURDAY A. M.
GIVE THE TEAM A’
GOOD SEND OFF

The Davidsonian

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

HONORARY
FRATERNITIES
EXTEND BIDS TO
NEW MEMBERS ON
MONDAY

Volume XVIII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 30, 1930

No. 7

WILDCATS WILL MEET
V.M.I. ON SATURDAY
IN MORNING GAME

Flying Squadron Expects a hard
Fight from Davidson in First
Morning Game

TEAMS ARE KEYED UP

Papers Predict a Large Crowd for
the Game Saturday

Davidson's Wildcats journey to Lexington
this week-end to engage the Flying Squad-
ron of V, M. I. in a morning game at 11
o'clock in a battle which is likely to give
the ’Cats their first victory over the Cadets
since 1917 when Davidson licked V. M. I,
23-7, the largest score made by either team
since their first encounter in 1904, Since that
date;“the two teams have played. eleven
games, V. M. I. winning seven and David-
son taking four. Since 1917 only five games
have been played, all five going to the Fly-
ing Squadron,

Davidson will probably enter the game
Saturday morning the slight favorites to take
the pigskin back home, as far as comparative
scores go, and as far’as the previous show-
ing of the two teams is concerned. In the
six games that Davidson has played, four
are in the won column and two in the lost

“column while V. M. I. has lost three and
“won two. The Wildcats have scored 96 points
*to their opponents’ 32 for the season so far,
‘While the Cadets have countered 26 points

to their opponents’ 45,

\V.M. © opened their season this year
against the University of Richmond. Coach
Bill Raftery had one of the greenest teams
to take the field that he has ever coached
at the Virginia school since he first took
over the reins. as chief mentor four years
ago. Despite the drought of material, the
Flying Squadron fought through the Spiders
for a 12-0 win. Brilliant work by Captain
Roy Dunn, stellar line plunger and veteran
of two seasons, Lefty Williams and Gilly
Laughorn in the backfield, was matched by
the Cadet line which strengthened in the
pinches to stop the sensational Spider quar-
terback, Henry Dohrman. The Cadets’ de-
fense was an impregnable wall which tow-
ered above the Richmond backs too high to
(Continued on page 6)

Former Professors

Now in Varied Work

New Year Finds Former Faculty
Members in Many Varied
Positions

Five members of last year’s faculty, in-
cluding three professors, one assistant pro-
fessor, and one professor of military tactics,
are now located at five different placesBsome
studying and others carrying on their teach-
ing profession. Professors Weaver and Davis
are teaching elsewhere; J. N. Truesdale and
J. T. Kerr are studying, while Captain John
Elkins goes to Hawaii to resume govern-
mental duties.

Professor W. R. Weaver, a professor in
the Modern Language Department of Da-
vidson last year, is now acting head of the
Spanish Department at Hampden-Sydney in
Virginia. Professor J. H. Davis, of the Biol-
ogy Department here last year, has been ap-
pointed head of the Biology Department_at
Presbyterian College, Clinton, S. C.

Professor J. N. Truesdale, popular young
assistant Greek professor last year, returned
to Duke University where he was gradu-
ated two years ago to resume studies and
work toward a Ph:D. degrée: In addition to
his studies, Truesdale is teaching classes in
Greek. J. T. Kerr, an assistant in the Sci-
ence Department last year, is studying medi-
cine at the University of North Carolina
this year. ,
“Captain Elkins sailed from’ New’ York to
San Francisco this past week and it is ex-
pected .that he and his family will sail to
Honolulu within the next two or three days.
Captain Elkins will be located either in
Honolulu or in the outlying districts, but
his official duties will not be known until his
ship approaches Hawaii.

Annual Pictures

The Annual Staff announces that
the photographer from White
Studio will be in Davidson again
the first of next month for the pur-
pose’ of finishing all individual pic-
tures for this year’s annual and
urges all students to take advantage
of this last visit of the photograph-
er. Since the merit of an annual de-
pends largely on the individual pic-
tures shown, the best setting and
lighting arrangements that could be
effected in an impromptu studio
were made and it was hoped that
more students would have their
pictures taken for the publication
during this last series. The photog-
rapher will return in the spring to
take pictures of the campus, but no
individual pictures will be taken at
that time.

Twelve To Try For
Rhodes Scholarship

Davidson's faculty has recently recom-
mended for the Rhodes Scholarship from
this district seven undergraduates and five
alumni. These twelve men are to appear be-
fore the various state committees on De-
cember the 5th and 6th. At this meeting two
are appointed for each state and then the

two appointed from each state mect a dis- |
trict committee which will select four men |
out of the twelve candidates from six states. |

The state committee is composed of six men,
one of which is Dr. G. R. Vowles of the
German Department of Davidson.

The undergraduates appointed were Dean
Rusk, A. R. Bird, Jack Pepper, J. Wilson
McCutchan, Gene DuBose, Roger P. Enloe,

and FE. S. Bettis. Rusk, who is president of |

the “Y,” major of the battalion, a member
of the Omicron ‘Delta Kappa honorary fra-
ternity, a member of the Kappa Alpha so-
cial fraternity, and manager of the student
store, will represent the State of North Car-

olina. Bird, editor of Quips and Cranks and |

member of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity, will
apply from the District of Columbia. An
other representative of North Carolina will
be Jack Pepper, who is captain of the golf
team, a member of the Kappa Sigma social

fraternity. J. Wilson McCutchan, who is |

editor of The Davidsonian, a member of the
Omicron Delta Kappa honorary fraternity,
will, represent the State of Virginia. The
representative from South Carolina will be
Gene DuBose, who is a member of the’ ten-
nis team, a member of the Honor Roll, and
a member of the Beta Theta Pi social fra-
ternity. R. P. Enloe, another member of
the-Honor Roll, will represent the State of
Georgia. E. S. Bettis, who is a member of
the Sigma Pi Sigma honorary fraternity
(Continued on page 6)

Pardington Wins Fourth
Atwater Kent Contest

To Represent State in Dixie Contest
Held in Nashville

Davidson College students were pleased to
learn that George P. Pardington, student at

Davidson, had won the men’s division of the |

North Carolina contest in the Fourth Na-
tional Radio Audition, and would represent
this state in the “Dixie” District contest to
be held in Nashville, Tenn., in November.
Mr. Pardington was declared winner of the
tryouts staged in the studios of Station
WBT, Charlotte, on October 18.

Pardington is a member of the Junior
Class of Davidson, and last year participated
in the tryouts, winning second place. His
home is at Scotdale, Ga., but he went to high
school in Winston-Salem, where he won first
place in the North,Carolina state high school
contest in 1926. He is a member of the Da-
vidson College Glee Club, and for the past
two years has been presented to the public
as one of the feature solo singers. He sings
baritone.

Of interest to people of this state and sec-
tion was the disclosure made here that Miss

(Continued on page 6)

Faculty Members Speak
To Returning Graduates

| Loyalty, Traditions, and Co-opera-
tion Brought to Attention of
Alumni Assemblage

At the annual Home-Coming exercises,
{held Saturday, October 25, at 12 o'clock,
| the alumni, students, and many friends of
| Davidson College heard, with great interest
‘and pleasure, three addresses made by as
many prominent members of the Davidson
faculty. The subjects brought to the atten-
tion of the assemblage included Loyalty, Tra-
‘ditions, and Co-operation.

Dr. C. R. Harding, professor of Greek
at Davidson for the past forty-two years,
j and known to practically every returning
jalumuus, held up loyalty as the virtue of
virtues. Asserting that high ideals and lofty
/aspirations have been the watchword of Da-
|vidson College, whether the category of
thought and activity be physical, social, men-
tal, ethical, or spiritual, Dr. Harding said
that he “made bold to assert that the college
is richly worthy of your whole-hearted loy
alty; worthy by reason of what she is in
| herself, and worthy by reason of what she
/has done for you.”

“You chose Davidson,” said Dr. Harding
to the alumni, “as your Alma Mater, and
Davidson accepted) you as a mother would
a little child. In your student days she urged
you, coaxed you, led you, and thrust you,
sometimes in accord with your will, and
sometimes against your will, until you had
attained the end at which you aimed. She
did this at an outlay and expense of which
you paid a mere fraction.” Dr, Harding did
not point out the needs of the college; but
suggested to the alumni that Dr. Lingle,
President of Davidson, “will be glad to tell
you of them.”

The Deep Rooted Tradition
“If, by traditions, one means practices or
| customs never written in the laws, but passed
from one generation to another by word of
mouth, then Davidson is rich in them,” said
|the second speaker, Dr. C. M.° Richards,
former Davidson College pastor, and now a
member of the Bible Department, who cited
traditions which were the very foundations
of the college. Dr. Richards contended that
the fighting spirit of Davidson’s athletic
teams is lost sight of in the fact that the
(Continued on page 6)

Junior Class Wins.
Stunt Night Award

Davidson's annual Stunt Night was held
last Saturday evening in Chambers Audi-
torium under the auspices of the Glee Club.
W. R. Rule, of the Junior Class, acted as
the master of ceremonies,
| The first number on the program was a
| short skit by the Sophomores, entitled “The
| Auction.” Bruce Sugg had the lead and car-
|ried out the part of the auctioneer well.

The Sophomore members of the band pro-

| vided the music for the occasion and the
| bidders were five farmers: Patton, Seymour,
| Steadman, Smith, and Lake. The auctioneer
| sold Rumple, Watts, end Chambers in order
jnamed, but when he attempted to sell the
| Barracks, the farmers refused to bid and left
the stage in disgust.
Next was “The Affairs of the
| Seniors,” presented by the Senior Class. It
| started out quite humorously when the deli-
{cate flower girls, Joe McCall and Bill Ma-
|son, came tripping down the aisle, gently
‘tossing cabbages to the audience. Pat Boyle,
| the gir], and Bill McAlpine, the boy, were
| joined together by J. A. Jones, who per-
|formed the ceremony with a good deal of
| humor in it. The others in this stunt were
| Boots Wilson and Hub Covington, two at-
|tendants; L. F. Wood, the mother of the
girl; Walter Fraley, the father of the bride,
and skinny Hall, who protested because his
affections had been played with.

Following the Senior program was that of
the Freshmen. This was a short dialogue of
two blackfaces, Scotty Akers and Bradford
McLean, who pulled a number of good jokes.
Then McLean gave an excellent exhibition of
tap-dancing. i :

(Continued on page 6)

|
|
|
|
|
|

Love

O. D. K. Tap Day

Delta Circle of Omicron Delta
Kappa will hold its annual tap day
on Tuesday morning, November 4.
This service is very impressive. In
it students of the Senior class will
be tapped by the present members
of oO. D..K.

It‘is the custom of the O. D. K.
to have a member of the faculty to
speak to the audience on some
phase of Omicron Delta Kappa. Af-
ter the faculty member speaks the
president of the society taps the
gavel on the altar and a member
of the society rises and goes to the
student who is to be tapped and
taps him on the back. Then the one
designated rises from his seat and
follows his tapper to the platform.

This form of the public cere-
mony signifies those to whom bids
have been extended by the society.

Mr. Rimmer Speaks
In Defense of Bible

In the second of his two addresses given
to'the students of Davidson College at the
Yomi Mr. Harry
Rimmer spoke on the second division’of his
subject, “The Relation of Science and Re-
ligion.” This enumeration
and elaboration of the discoveries which bear
upon and substantiate the Scriptures.

Mr. stated that the strongest
point of the case which critics have built
against the credibility of the Scriptures is
the mystery about the “Three Silent Cen-
turies.”

A. vesper. services,

consisted of an

Rimmer

These are the first three centuries
of the Christian era, of which, critics con-
tend, nothing has been found to indicate
the existence of written Scriptures at that
time. “But,” stated Mr. Rimmer,” the
ence of archeology has come to the aid of
the Bible by its discoveries of manuscripts
Which prove beyond question that there did
exist at that time written Scripture.” The
the paper used at that
time was found to be made of the pithy cen-
ter of reeds. This was not very durable so
copies had to be made of the manuscripts.
So, while possessing no original manuscripts,
we have copies which. have been dated as
far back as 120 A. D. So if the original
manuscripts existed then we must certainly
have had the written Scriptures.

“But,” said Mr. Rimmer, the science of
archeology has gone farther back than the
second century.” Aristides, Greek philosopher
in his book in defense of Christianity, said
to Hadrian (76-138 A. D.): “Having been
born of a Hebrew virgin and having com-
pleted his wonderful ‘dispensation, he was
pierced by the Jews, and after three days
revived and went up to ‘heaven... and the

sci-

speaker said that

glory of his coming again thou canst learn, |!

O king, from that which is called among
(Continued on page 5)

Seven Men are Issued
Le Cercle Francais Bids

Extensive Program is Planned by
French Club for Year

In a meeting of the Le Cercle Francais
held last week, seven men were bid to the
club, which is affiliated with the L’Alliance
Francaise. Those receiving bids were H. L.
Carr, R. P. Davis, L. N. Hand, J. V. D. Mid-
dleton, C. F. Myers, Roscoe Prince, J. T.
Welch.

These men were chosen for excellence in
French and interest in French courses of-
fered on the campus. The badge by which
they were pledged was a tri-color ribbon.
An extensive program is being planned for
the coming year, including talks by profes-
sors and students on topics of current inter-
est in France. Also one or two French plays
will be staged during the year by the club.

Several speakers from the L’Alliance Fran-
caise and other lecturers will be engaged in
collaboration with’ the faculty committee on
lectures.

, The present officers of the club are: S. §.
Wiley, President; D. G. Martin, Vice-Presi-
dent; E. C. Dwelle, Secretary-Treasurer.

SENIORS AND ALUMNI
HONORED BY ELEVEN
PHI BETA KAPPA BIDS

The Alumni Comprise a Cosmopoli-
tan Group Coming From All
Parts of the Country

INITIATION ON DECEMBER 5

Prominent Educational Leader

Expected for the Initiation
On Monday, October 20, bids were issued
by the North Carolina Gamma Chapter of
Phi Beta Kappa, honorary scholastic fra-
ternity, to the following men: J. B. Black,
M. Jackson; H. S. Munroe, Jr., W. C.
and J. I. Preston, The following
alumni were also> issued Dr. W. H.
Mills, '92, Clemson College; Prof. W. H.
Morton, ‘09, Washington and Lee; Dr. H.
S. Turner, 13, Staunton, Va.; Major Harlee
Morrison, '16, Dallas, Texas, and T. R.
McNeal, ‘16, Niagara Valls, NJ Y. A) bid
of honorary membership was. issued to Dr.

Frazier Hood of the Davidson faculty.
Two elections are held each year, and the

kK.
Ragin, Jr.
bids :

next election will probably be held in May,
1931, Bids are issued by the Gamma Chap-
ter of North Carolina at Davidson College,
of which Dr. W. L.
Prof. Archibald Currie, secretary.

Porter is president, and

An unusually high scholastic average dur-
ing four years at college is the main re-
quirement for a bid to Phi Beta Kappa. It
is a much coveted and highly prized honor.

The public initiation of these men will be
held on or around December 5, This. ini-
tiation is an unusually important and inter-
esting event, and is looked forward to with
keen interest. Negotiations are being made
with one of the outstanding educational lead-
ers in the South to speak at the initiation
ceremonies, but as yet. formal notice of his
acceptance had not been received,

Eminent Actors to
Present Play Here

“The Merchant of Venice” Will be
Given in Chambers Auditorium

—!

On Wednesday, November 12, at 8:15

PP. M., “The Merchant of Venice,” one of
Shakespeare's plays, will be presented in
Chambers Auditorium by Mr. and Mrs,

Pierre Pelletier and their Elizabethan Play-
ers, Special admission rates will be given
Davidson students.

Mr
ality and ability. He was formerly associated
with Sothern and Marlowe in their Shakes-
yearean productions. He was also with Mrs,
4 Mr. Dictrichstein, Mr. Wilton
Lackaye, Burr McIntosh, Mrs. Stuart Rob-
son and Miss Virginia Harned. He has had
extensive experience both as leading man

Pelletier is a young actor of person-

fiske, Leo

and director of many stock companies in
New York, Boston, Philadelphia, and other
cities. For four years he was one of the
principal members of “The Man of the
Hour,” having toured the United States and
Canada from coast to coast with the great
New York success, and also one of the orig-
Prisoner of Zenda”
Company. Mr. Pelletier is a graduate of the

inal members of “The

New [england Conservatory of Music, Col-
lege of Oratory, Boston, and also a gradu-
ate of the American Academy of Dramatic
Arts, New York City.

Mrs. Pelletier has had an extensive pro-
fessional career. Upon graduating from the
American Academy of Dramatic Art, of
New York, a very high-class school con-
nected with Columbia University, also with
Mr. Charles Frohman’s Empire Theater on
Broadway, she served her road experience
as leading woman with companies playing
“Madame X,” and afterwards was promoted
to stardom. Then followed seven years of
success under Mr. Pelletier’s management,
playing from coast to coast on the B. J.
Keith and Orpheum circuit of theaters in all
the largest cities.

Space will not permit us to give in detail
the successes of each of the supoprting mem-
bers. However, all are ladies and gentlemen
of culture,“personality and training.
