Baten a

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 27, 1930

After Graduation --- Business ?

Accountancy Displays Attractive
Field for Graduates of College

Emphasis Placed on Fact That
Business Course is Not
Imperative

Every college senior naturally is eager to
find upon his exit from the academic environ-
ment a vocation which will permit him to
exercise the abilities which four years of
intellectual development have given him. It
is discouraging, therefore, to find that those
intangible faculties a university training is
intended to produce, which are inadequately
defined as creative imagination, analytical
instinct, facility in self-expression, etc., ap-
pear to be of no immediate, practical value
because the student is innocent of special-

ized technical knowledge and business expe-
rience.

Naturally, in this kind of work there is a
great amount of detailed labor to be per-
formed. There is no lack of men to execute
these routine duties; indeed, the field is
saturated with accountants who are captable
of fulfilling the mechanical needs of the
profession, But there is a definite demand
for broadly educated men who are potential-
ly able, after familiarizing themselves with
the preliminary work of the accountant, to
conceive the solutions to important problems
and to plan and direct the execution of them.
Such men must have cultured minds which
will permit the survey of ‘complicated ‘prob-
lems on complete perspective; they must
have the linguistic ability to express clearly
the ‘results of analysis. Intellectual confi-
dence, which is the product of experietice
with formal knowledge and the greatest
benefit offered by college training, is essen-
tial in the inevitable, intimate relations of
public accountants with the leaders of the
enterprises which they serve.

The men who are to occupy these high
positions in accountancy must obviously,
be distinctly above the average, and conse-
quently they will receive unusual rewards.
Accountants who have imagination and exe-
tive ability will have no difficulty in obtain-
ing ample pecuniary remuneration.

The goal of every public accountant is to
obtain a Certified Public Accountant certifi-
cate and to become a partner in an existing’
public accounting firm or to create a firm
for himself, building up his own clientele.
In this situation the possibilities are almost
unlimited.

The accountancy profession is not yet
crowded with college men, and consequently
those who have extraordinary ability, sup-
plemented by excellent academic training,
have unusual opportunities to obtain recogni-
tion. To qualified men positions of account-
ants’ staffs give liberal compensations which
compare favorably with those in any profes-
sion. Partnerships in accountancy firms
usually are open to progressive staff men and
the incomes of :principals in such firms are
equal to those of. the higher executives in
the business field. :

There are comparatively few enterprises
of magnitude which do not engage public
accountants to conduct regular audits or in-
vestigations, but it is probable that not more
than one business out of every three of
small or medium size in this country has
adopted the principle of independent audit.
Consequently, the undeveloped field for ac-
countancy is immense. As an alternative to
admission to an existing firm, the promising
staff assistant may desire to enter profes-
sional practice on his own account. The
fact that the undeveloped field consists
largely of smaller organizations is very im-
portant to young practitioners who open
their own offices after they have received
the C. P. A. certificates, as these men are
naturally able at first to obtain small clients
more easily than large ones. Many small
concerns, moreover, have an evident need.
of advice from a capable public accountant
on their operating problems.

No period of time spent in public account-
ing practice will be wasted even if one wishes
to devote his energy to some other type of
business activity. A capable man who has
had thorough , experience on a public ac-
countant’s staff is also qualified te obtain a
responsible position in the permanent employ
of a commercial or an industrial organiza-
tion. The.executive who directs the destinies
of a business or a corporation must have be-
fore anything else a capacity to analyze its
financial phases. This is exactly what expe-
fience in accountancy makes possible. As a
result, there is now a perceptible tendency
to select as the heads of large enterprises
‘men who have had such training.

Textile Industry
For College Grads

By George A. Sloan, President
Cotton Textile Institute

American industry is developing a new
technique which should be of particular in-
terest to college men who are contemplating
the choice of a career in business.

The cotton textile industry, and other
basic industries in the United States, reflect
thig, technique in a new kind of specializa-
tion and co-ordination. Manufacturing meth-
ods are changing, new channels of distribu-
tion are being used, new products are being
introduced so that management must con-
tinually be prepared for swift changes.

I believe that one of the principal things
for college men to consider in choosing the
cotton textile industry—or any other indus-
try—is their ability to meet the requirements
of this new technique. This industry in
common with others is witnessing great
changes. As new methods, new products and
new demands appear they emphasize the ex-
traordinary importance of individual enter-
prise, imagination and sound judgment. They
are creating opportunities for men who are
thoroughly equipped by their technical train-
ing to search out and analyze the industry’s
major problems and make some constructive
contribution that will lay the basis for a
broad development of sound manufacturing
and merchandising.

From my acquaintance with the cotton
textile industry I believe that one of the
best opportunities for college men may be
found in merchandising and market research.
This industry wants to know.more and more
about the present and potential markets for
its products. It is continually searching for
ways to improve these products so that they
will better serve the needs of present mar-
kets and lead to still larger markets. It is
seeking to be more adequately informed
so that it can anticipate logical changes. in
demand and even create and stimulate new
demands,

College graduates with sound technical
training will find many opportunities for a
successful career in one of the numerous
branches of the textile industry provided they
will also acquire the necessary practical
experience which can be obtained only by
working through the mills as actual day
laborers. I can not stress the importance too
strongly of following up school training with
the practical experience in mills because,
from mills, machinery builders and various
selling agencies, there is a present demand
for men who really know the textile busi-
ness and such demand is probably larger
and more exacting today than at any former
time in the history of the industry. |

an explanation of the steps to be taken in
obtaining a position through the Bureau of
Placement of the American Institute of Ac-
countants can be found on the Vocational
Guidance table at the “Y” rooms.

This article is an extract from a bulletion
published by the American Institute of Ac-
countants.

Schools of Business

The outsanding eastern schools of
business are those at:

Harvard University, Cambridge,
Mass.

Columbia University, New York
City.

University of Pennsylvania, Phila-
delphia, Pa.

University of Chicago, Chicago,
Ill.

University of Cincinnati, Cincin-
nati, Ohio.

New York University, New York
City.

Northwestern University, Evans-
ton, IIL

University of Wisconsin, Madison,
Wis.

Catalogues of these schools may
be found on the Vocational Guid-
ance table in the entrance to the
“Y” rooms. Please use these at the
“Y” rooms and return them to the
table as there are others that will
want to use them.

Banking Affords
Real Opportunity

By Reeve Schley, Vice-President
Chase National Bank

One of the advantages that. the big cor-
poration offers young men of ability is its
comparative freedom from family influence
and personal favoritism. This is particularly
true of banking. There are many instances
more especially in the smaller communities
where able son succeeds able father in the
management of a bank, and wherever this
occurs it is wholesome and desirable. On the
other hand, it is particularly difficult for an
incompetent beginner to go far in banking
merely because of family influence. In the
first place, the bank in every community is
subject to rigorous scrutiny because the
whole community deals with the bank- and
trusts its money to it. Only as far as it keeps
the community’s good-will and confidence
can the bank, be successful. The officers of
the bank must be men who can stand this
scrutiny and the bank would inevitably suffer
if incompetent relatives or officers or stock
holders receive promotion to important posi-
tions in it.

An outstanding feature of the banker’s
work is its variety. The bank touches every
other economic interest in the community,
has relations with every kind of business and
all types of manufacturing, deals with agri-
culture and mining, with the government,
with the municipal, state and federal author-
ities and last but not least with bankers in
other communities and in foreign lands.
Above all, the banker’s work involves re-
sponsibility, which is tremendously interest-
ing to the majority of men.

The young man contemplating employment
in a great city bank may assent»to the fore-
going and yet may not know what the work
above described has to do with the definite
tasks which he shall be called upon to accom-
plish in a department of that bank. In a
small bank’an ambitious young man who en-
joys the confidence of his chief obviously

has his part in the activities described. Al-
most from the very beginning he can be in

“DRUGS”

a

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

~ More detailed information together with

SPECIAL

One pound College Seal paper
and envelopes—Only $1.00
A complete drug store
at your service.

WHITE DRUG CO.

Make Our Store Your Store

“SODA”

“SUNDRIES”

FOREIGN TRADE
By E. B. Filsinger_

Foreign Sales Manager Lawrence
& Co., Who’s Who in America,
1926-27

We can no longer content ourselves with
the sale abroad of the products of our mills,
farms and factories; nor can we concern
ourselves exclusively with the importation
of raw materials and finished products. We
have huge investments in foreign countries,
which need looking after. Enormous loans
are being made weekly to foreign enter-
prises, banks and governments. An increasing
number of manufacturing institutions are
building plants in other countries. Mining
and petroleum development abroad with
American capital and under American
direction is growing. As an instance of what
some Americans have accomplished in these
directions may be cited the careers of Her-
bert S. Hoover and John Hays Hammond,
both of whom made for themselves an inter-
national reputation and accumulated sub-
stantial fortunes through their participation
in mining development in foreign countries.
American salesmanship, advertising and en-
gineering are making themselves felt in every
portion of the globe. American banks are

a considerable measure a banker in the com-
plete sense which I have described. But
what are the opportunities of a young man
in a large city bank? May he not be given
a microscopical part of the work of a great
institution? Is he not likely to become a
mere cog of thie machine and be shut. off
completely from the larger vision which the
senior officers of the great institution behold?
To give as candid an answer as I can to
this question. First: the vision of the world’s
activities, commercial and financial, which
can be seen from the vantage point of a
great city bank is a broader and a more
fascinating vision than that which the small
bank in a small community offers, interesting
though it be. Secondly: in the great city
bank there is a constant study of personnel
with a view to finding men of imagination
and promise, and as these are found oppor-
tunity is made for them by rotating them
among the various departments of the bank
so that they may obtain a general knowledge
of all that is going on in the institution. They
are given promotion and responsibilities and
their. opportunities for additional achievement
are virtually unlimited, Thirdly: the great
city bank is, after all, merely an elaboration
of the country bank. The basic functions are
there, but because of the multitude of activi-
ties they are split up and especially divided.

Moreover, I am convinced that the young
man of imagination and aptitude who makes
good in the particular jobs first assigned to
him in the head office of a great city bank
will find all the opportunity that he wants.
" This article is an extract from an article
in “An Outline of Careers” published by
George H. Doran Company. For more de-
tailed information a copy of this book is
available at the Vocational Guidance table
at the “Y” rooms.

adding to the number of their branches in
other lands. Raw materials, in increasing
quantities, are being purchased direct from
their sources. American educational insti-
tutions in far-off places have long been
famous. Their number is certain to grow.
This brief catalogue of American activities
in foreign fields is but a slight indication of
the opportunities in many directions that are
afforded young men who are on the thres-
hold/of their business life.

’ The stages in the career of a young man
who starts at the bottom and “work up” in
foreign trade are about the same as in the
case of domestic work. If he is with the
right house, the rapidity of his advance is
almost invariably in his own hands, So, too,
is a chance to go abroad. This, naturally, is
the logical ambition of most young men.
Under ordinary circumstances, the sooner he
is qualified, the better pleased is the employer.
Once he is sent to a foreign territory, his
future (barring the unforeseen or unusual
situations) is likewise of his o making.
This is true even as regards renumeration.
The lure of an ‘immediate larger salary over-
seas is often deceptive. At times, a premium
is paid only because the service is to be
performed abroad. Upon his return (espec-
ially after a very short period) the young
man may find it difficult to obtain employ-
ment at the same salary. There are men who
serve American concerns abroad, who are
receiving considerably larger salaries than
they would earn in: the United States. On
the other hand, it is also true that at times
men are not so well paid as conditions might
seem to warrant, taking into account the
fact that they are expatriates and frequently
unable to return to the United States for
years at a time. On the question of remuner-
ation, it is very difficult to lay down any
hard and fast dicta. Circumstances vary. Un-
questionably, there is a growing tendency
to properly reward the man who renders
meritorious service in foreign fields and who
has “made good”—who is in every sense of
the word the best type of successful repre-
sentative.

A greater need for application than in
domestic trade; continuous study; travel in
foreign countries (at times, under difficult
and trying conditions) ; if married, possible
unwillingness of wife to reside abroad; per-
iods of .prolonged absence from the United
States; likelihood of getting out of touch
with concerns at home and, possibly, diffi-
culty of making new connection on return.

More interesting work than in the domes-
tic field; the broadening results of travel;
greater opportunity for self-development and
responsibility ; possibility of achieving exe-
cutive positions; more leisurely living if
located abroad ; if willing to live permanently
overseas, promising: and remunerative em-
ployment as representatives of American
firms.

This article is an extract from an article
in “An Outline of Careers’ published by

George H. Doran Company.

FELLOWS!

You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right Price at

Henderson’s Filling Station

DAVIDSON, N. C.

Monday and Anne CL, March 3 and 4
Annie Christie”
GRETA x GARBO

Wednesday, March 5
“Harmony at Home”

Davidson Theatre

Thursday, March 6
“Seven Keys t to Balpate”

RICHARD DIX

: Friday,

March 7

“Love Comes Along”
BEBE DANIELS

Saturday, March 8
“Battle of Paris”

DAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAADAAAAAAAAAAAAAAADAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
