CHAPEL AT
8:25 DURING
EXAMS

THE DAVIDSONIAN

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

SENIORS ARE
EXEMPT FROM
CHAPEL

Vol. XVII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 16, 1930

No. 15

DAVIDSON DEFEATS NORTH CAROLINA QUINTET 22-20
Y.M.C.A. Adopts New Plan for Vocational Guidance Work

Series of Piscasions
By Eminent Men To Be
Published In February

Schwab, Huebner, Sloan, and Vance
_ Among Most Prominent ‘
Contributors

McGUIRE IS IN CHARGE
Church Work, Business, Law, Medi-

cine, Engineering, Journalism,
and Salesmanship Among Sub-
jects Treated

A series of vocational discussions in the
form of newspaper articles with such emi-
nent men as Charles M, Schwab, head of the
United States Steel Corporation; Dr, S. S.
Huebner, Professor of Insurance and Com-
merce at the Wharton School of Finance,
University of Pennsylvania; Geo. A. Sloan,
President of the Cotton Textile Institute,
New York; and Dr. James I. Vance, of
Nashville, Tenn., included among the auth-
ors, will be published in the Davidson each
week, beginning in February, W. B. Mc-
Guire, Jr., Member of “Y” Cabinet and in
charge of Vocational Guidance, announced
today.

Heretofore, the annual vocation Guidance
Program, which is sponsored by the Y. M.
C, A., has been in the nature of talks, made
by men representing different professions.
However, as a variation from the past, these
discourses will appear in written form.

Each edition of the college paper will
include an elaboration on one of the major
professions, both as a whole and on its chief
branches, written by men nationally known
in their respective fields.

Eight outstanding professions will com-
prise the program as indicated in the fol-
lowing list: Church work, Business, Law,
Medicine, Engirfeering, Journalism, Sales-
manship, and Education.

“Theepurpose of this campaign is to help
those undecided students, by giving informa-
tion pertaining to various occupations, which
may definitely help some undergraduate to
find which one he is best suited for.”

The main thought in these vocational
themes, McGuire said, is to enlighten men
on such facts as, the income derived from
certain professions, possibilities and oppor-
tunities open to the college man, chances of
advancement, extent to which the respective

(Continued on Page 5)

Graduates of Davidson
Are Given Fellowships
Awards Provide for Additional

Year of Study at Union
Theological Seminary

Richmond Va., Jan. 16—Fellowship awards
at Union Theological Seminary here which
were recently announced by, President Ben
R. Lacy show that three of four appointees
are graduates of Davidson College.,

L. M. McCutchen, ’27, of St. Charles, S.
C., is the Moses D. Hoge Fellow; R. S.
Wilson, ’27, Charleston, W. Va., will hold
the Charles D. Larus Wellowship; W. A.
Christian, Jr., ’27, Mobile, Ala., was declared
the Salem Fellow; and J. N. Thomas,
Washington and Lee graduate of. Bedford,
Va., is the Walter W. Moore Fellow; A. J.
Kissling, St. Louis, Mo., was reappointed the
Thos. Cary Johnson Fellow for a second
year of study.

The Hoge and Larus Fellowships are
resident fellowships, providing for a year’s
additional study in the Graduate Department
of Union Seminary. The Johnson, Salem and
Moore Fellowships provide for graduate
work either at Union or: at some approved
institution in this country or abroad.

Peabody Chosen As
Head of Freshmen

Bruce Peabody, of Charlotte, N. C., was
chosen President of the Freshman Class by
a popular vote of the class Friday morning
in chapel, Peabody is quite an outstanding
man in the Class, being on the Freshman
football, and basketball teams, and a member
of the Dramatic Club. He is a pledged mem-
ber of Pi Kappa Alpha, national social fra-
ternity.

Hailing from Charlotte High School, Pea-
body shows outstanding prominence, as
evinced by his enviable achievements. Among
his honors, while there, are: President of
the Mathematics Club; President of the
Latin Circle; Vice-President of the Senior
Class; President of the Hi-Y; Letter man
in basketball, football. and baseball

Monday morning, following his election,
Peabody called a meeting, of the Class to
elect a Vice-President. Out of five men
nominated, two were eliminated in the first
ballot. Those now in order for election are:
U. B. Clark, Jr., Fayetteville, N. C.; J. D.
Enochs, from Bluefield, W. Va.; and W. A.
Flinn, from Atlanta, Ga.

As yet, no date has been set for selection
of a secretary-treasurer.

Gaston Solicitor Talks
At “Y’ Vesper Service

John G. Carpenter Asks Students’
Co-operation in Keeping Youth
of Nation From Prison

Solicitor John G. Carpenter, of Gastonia,
N. C,, made a most eloquent plea at the “Y”
Vesper Service Sunday night that those of
us who have the advantages of attending
such an institution as Davidson with its
many uplifting associations should do our
utmost to keep those of our ‘age, brought up
amidst: less fortunate surroundings out of
our prisons and institutions of» correction.
R. D. Russell read the scripture and intro-
duced the speaker, and Bill McGavock and
Alec Warren led in prayer.

“IT am happy to say tonight,” said Mr.
Carpenter, “that during the past week not
one white boy or girl has been brought to
our court in Gastonia for breaking the law.
One of the things that is most distressing in
my occupation is to see never ending col-
umns of young men and women coming up
before our judges to be sentenced to terms
in the penitentiary because the call of sin
was so sweet to their ears. You men who
have had opportunities so much greater than
theirs can help these less fortunate brothers
and sisters to see life in the right light. They
are part of the responsibility Christ has
given you as one of his followers. What are
you going to do about it?”

Mr. Carpenter out of his rich experiences
with young men and women passing through
the Gastonia court gave us many examples
of the ‘fine stuff” that was in many of these
boys which he was able to bring out
in them when he set them going again in
a different environment with the ideals he
gave them from the buckram bound Bible he
always kept in his office. He said that many
people had criticized, him for being too soft
and easy for a prosecuting attorney, but that
he was more than repaid by the letters he
got from the boys he had helped. Almost all
of them were going straight and leading
successful lives in many different occupa-
tions. Several had taken extra schooling,
entered the seminary, and are now splendid
young ministers.

“There will always be men all around you
who have not had the chances and influences
you have had, who may either be strong
useful citizens, or convicts on the chain
gang, according as you discharge responsi-
bility towards them. Will you bring them
to the white path of hope in Jesus Christ?”

Notice to Seniors

The Senior Class Party given by

the Faculty has been postponed
from the week-end of February 22
until that of March 1. All Seniors
are requested to turn in the names
of the girls to be their guests for
this occasion to Cecil Lawrence,
who will arrange for the placing of

girls in faculty homes.

+}

Class of 1930 To Give
Furnishings For: Stage

Of Memorial Auditorium

Gift Will Complete Stage Equip-
ment Since Other Curtains Were
Given Last Year

The gift of the crass of 1930 has been
choose a gift placed their recommenda-
tions before the Senior Class Tuesday morn-
ing and were accepted by the class. The
gift will consist of a valance which is a
short ornamental curtain hanging in front
of the main curtain. In the middle of the
valance will appear the Davidson seal. In-
cluding this gift, will be a cyclorama, which
is the rear curtain, and will hide the back
wall of the stage. This gift will complete the
furnishings of the stage in the new Cham-
bers Building, present curtains having been
given by the Class of 1929,

The gift committee which is composed of
Bob Erckman as chairman, Frank Brown,
Frank Gaffney, Frontis Johnston and Bill
McGavock, considered several things which
they thought would beautify and improve
the campus. Among some considered were
lights for the entrance to Chambers, side-
walk leading to Chambers and a number of
others, but after lengthy consideration they
finally agreed on the gift mentioned above,
feeling that it was necessary to complete
the furnishings of the stage before starting
external improvements.

e

Gridders Participate In
Other Forms Of Sport

Members of the Davidson College football
team are participating in many of the
sports now in progress at Davidson, being
candidates for the different teams according
to their several abilities. The major sport
of basketball claims but three of the letter
men—Proctor, Milton, and Mathis, while
those out for the early track practice are
McCall and Boyle.

Coach Tilson is trying to use as many
lineman as possible in wrestling, developing
their alertness and strength; and an imposing
array of gridiron players are daily drilling
on the mat. The list includes Brock, Baker,
Brohard, Christenbury, Warren, Conway,
Baker and Wilson. Of this number, the first
five named have already won their letters in
wrestling, and it seems likely that Conway
will add his name to the roster before the
mat season ends.

A good number are also going out for
baseball. Mathis, Proctor, Bradshaw, Milton,
McQueen, Covington and Parrish will try
their skill on the diamond this season. Of
this number, Proctor was on the team last
year, }

Famous Frenchman

To Speak In March

Davidson College will have its part in
the celebration of the hundredth anniversary
of Romanticism in France, according to
Doctor Watts of the Department of French.
Arrangements have just been completed to
bring to the collegé on March 26, Monsieur
Marcel Bouteron, librarian of the Institut
de France and well known authority on
Balzac and French Romanticism. In accord-
ance with its plan to join the French in
celebrating the anniversary of this literary
movement, the Alliance Francaise, with
which is affiliated the local. Cercle Francais,

has invited M. Bouteron, “le Prince des
Balzaciens,” to spend three months in the
United States and Canada. Davidson Col-

lege considers itself very fortunate in being
able to have this distinguished visitor.

A great admirer of Balzac, M. Bouteron
has literally devoted his life to a study of
his work, and to a determined effort to un-
cover documents dealing with the dife and
works of this great author, The results of
his researches have been published in several
volumes. M. Bouteron is also the co-editor
of a new edition of the author’s works.

Not only is he well known for his writ-
ings, but also for his talent as a lecturer. He
has been in demand often at Paris before
different learned societies, and has also lec-
tured in Germany, England, Holland, and
Poland. His lectures are illustrated. He will
speak on his favorite subject: Balzac.

This is the third lecturer that the Cercle
francais has brought to Davidson within the
last two years. Last year Monsieur and
Madame Daniel Michenot of Strasbourg
spent two days here, and later in the season
Prof, Rene Hardre, of N. C. C. W., spoke
to a darge number of students in Shearer
Hall. The Cercle Francais has the co-opera-
tion of the faculty committee on lectures in
its efforts to have these outstanding figures
visit the college.

Fine Speakers To Come
Soon To Local Campus

Davidson Ministerial Band to Have
Charge of Program Next Sunday

The committee which has charge of secur-
ing speakers for the regular Y. M. C. A,
Vesper Service has been in communication
with a great many speakers and organiza-
tions in an effort to get the high type of
feaders for these services as there have been
in the past.

Davidson’s Ministerial Band, made up of
those men in college who have dedicated
their lives for full Christian service,’ will
have charge of Vespers Sunday, January 26.

(Continued on Page 5)

Editor’s Announce-
ment

The Editor of The Davidsonian
wishes to announce that due to Mid-
Term exams, which begin Friday
and continue through the following
week, there will no issue of The
Davidsonian on January 23. How-
ever, there will be a Davidsonian
published January 30th, which is the
week following exams.

In view of the fact-that the stu-
dents will be busy during the next
week, and also: because members of
the staff will have most of their
time taken up with exams, it is
thought best not to have an
of the college paper during that
week.

P6C3— t

Wildcats Give Brilliant
Exhibition To Overcome

Powerful Tarheel Five

Pritchett Leads Davidson Scoring
While Harper Leads for Carolina

BILL GOODSON STARS

Wildcats’ Five-Man Defense Proves
Superior to Carolina’s Man-for-
Man System

A’ stubborn five-man defense and a_ fast
attack enabled the Davidson Wildcats to
down the North Carolina Tar Heels and
come out on the not-much larger end of a
22 to 20 score in Charlotte last Saturday
night. The Wildcats had things pretty much
their own way during most of the first half,
but the Tar Heels came back during the
second stanza with a fight that was not to
be denied and were stopped only two points
short of victory.

It was a game that kept the Central High
gym rocking as the large crowd alternately
cheered one team, then another; and in the
last minutes of the game when Carolina
had crept up to within one point of the
leaders, the structure seemed almost ready
to burst from the excitement and heat of the
contest.

30th offensively Bill
Goodson, flashy Davidson guard, played a

and defensively,
game you read about but seldom see. Time
dind again he would take the ball away from
the Tar Heels and then carry it back down
the court almost singlehanded. His drib-_
bling was beautiful and the way in which
he eluded man after man and still maintained
control of the ball was almost uncanny.

Then in the last minute of play when he
had been fouled and given a free shot that
would probably cinch the game if made, he
stood on the foul line and, as cool as though
in practice dropped the “ball: through the
hoop.

Carl Pritchett played as good a game as
he has turned in this year and led his team
in scoring. This he did in spite of the fact
that he had two men guarding him when-
ever he got close to the goal. His floorwork
matched Goodson’s and he was quite suc-
cessful in locating the basket. He was forced
out of the game near the last by a bad foot
which had been hurt in the Wofford game.

Carolina got off to a one-point lead when
a free shot was sunk, but the Wildcats¢came
back to put in three field goals and take a
lead which was not relinquished far the rest
of the game. They lengthened it to 16 to 10
at half time. Carolina came back strong in
the last period and with four minutes left
to play, had carried the score to 21 to 20.
Goodson made a foul shot to bring the count
to 22 to 20 and a féw minutes later the gun
shot ended the melee.

“Puny” Harper, giant Tar Heel center,
was high point man, getting eight points to
lead Pritchett by one point. His work under
the basket was good and he generally was
able to get the tip off at center, thus giving
his team a distinct advantage. Marpet played
a good game also.

The real story of the contest was the
superiority of Davidson’s five-man defense
over the Tar Heels man-for-man system,
The five-man, as worked by the Wildcats
Saturday, was practically flawless while
Carolina’s defense leaked at times. This
defect was especially evident during the first
half.

Davidson. (22) Position ., Carolina (20)

Pritchett: (7) ss2scaceascsnounccasas Cleland
Forward ®

Johnston (c)i(3)! ~---=------= Neiman (1)
Forward

Rusk-: (2) sccscceciesesstsence Harper (8)
Center

Goodson (5) Brown
Guard

(Continued on Page 5)
