THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 27, 1930

Charlotte Winner Over
Wilmington By Narrow
Margin In Annual Meet

Fifth Straight Victory for Charlotte
Boys in as Many Years

MULLIS GIVEN UP

Wildcats Will Make
Trip Through State

The Davidson College baseball team
goes on the road for the first time this
season, with games scheduled with Elon,
\N. C. State, and Wake Forest, all on the

of those schools. The

|
|
|
'

| home . diamonds

Annual Soph Day Closes |

With Large Celebration | (Continued from page 1)

lof flying away it seemed perfectly content
to stay there among the chickens and peck
| at the corn. When the boys told. their father
———— lof this he took them to the top of a high

The Annual Soph Day was held Tues- \ peak nearby and held the little eagle up. The
day, March 25. The tradition which has | eaglet

“Y” VESPER SERVICE

Speeches and Planting of Tree
Mark Occasion

looked around for a minute filling

Outcome is Uncertain Until Finish | Elon game will be played Friday, State
of Meet Saturday, and Wake Forest will close the

been carried down each year has changed
considerably with the passing years, as
have so many other campus customs.

his heart with the grandeur of the bound-
less blue expanse about him, then he soared
off into space and out of sight. He just

With New Hanover High School, of
Wilmington, leading the field by an ad-
vantage of one point, Nick Laney, Char-
lotte High School boy, jumped twenty
feet,. four inches to win the broad jump
event and the meet for his school. The
meet was the fifth annual high school
track meet sponsored by Davidson Col-
lege and was held here last Saturday.
Charlotte High’s victory was their fifth
in succession, Captain Mullis carrying off
the silver cup. This was present by
Capt. Norton G. Pritchett, Davidson ath-
letic director, who officiated at the con-
tests.

Up until the final events the meet was
a three cornered affair, the winter lying
between Charlotte, Wilmington, and
Greensboro. The latter was nosed out in
the last few events. The scores were as
follows: Charlotte, 38.5; Wilmington, 36;
Greensboro, 31.7; High Point, 19.4; Ra-
leigh 12; Barium Springs, 5; Statesville
and Gastonia 2 each; Hickory and Salis-
bury failed to score.

Charlotte took four first places, Wil-
mington, three, and Grensboro and High
Point, two each, Charlotte and Greens-
boro dividing honors on the remaining
first place.

Brittain, of Wilmington and Goodwin,
of Greensboro tied for high scoring with
twelve points each. Captain Mullis of
Charlotte took second with ten points be-
ing trailed by Robinson of Wilmington
with nine.

ety

WHAT WE TOLD THE ALUMNI

(Continued from page 4)
worth of pledges to cover this. We hope
that they are all good. We wish that the
debt could be paid before the dedication at
Commencement.

5. The Curriculum—Certain changes have
been made in the B.S. courses. Fifteen good
units are required for entrance into David-
son, Of these, only two units are required in
a foreign language to enter the B. S. courses.
Only twelve hours of college work in for-
eign languages will be required in the B.S.
courses for graduation. Eighteen hours on
a major will be required above the Freshman
Class. These changes were made in order
that students in the Junior and Senior years
may have larger liberty in choosing what
they wish from the comprehensive curri-
culum which Davidson offers.

The President and the Dean of the Faculty
have been requested by the Faculty to study
each department of the college through the
eyes of alumni, especially those doing grad-
uate work in universities, and through the
eyes of experts, to see if each department is
offering the best possible curriculum for that

department. Such a study will take a year |

or two.

6. Needs—Some of the needs of the Col-
lege are as follows: A new Library, a new
Infirmary, a Field House, a Social Center,
a new Church, larger scholarship funds, and
larger endowments. .

7. Gifts, Annuities and Wills—Davidson |‘

offers a fine opportunity for investments that
will yield rich dividends. These investments
can be made by direct gifts in amounts that
are large or small. We could use at once a
million dollars in supplying the needs that |
are mentioned above. |

Or, the investment might be made as an |
annuity. By this process the donor gives to
the College a sum of money, large or small,
and the college in turn promises to pay the
donor a certain per cent of interest each year
so long as he lives.

Or, the investment might be made by a
will. It would mean much to the College as
the years go by if its friends would remem-
ber the old College in their wills. There is
no finer investment which will be used for
the development of the minds, bodies and
souls of young men. Jesus tells us to lay up
treasures in Heaven. The only way we can
do it is to invest our money in something
that is going to Heaven.

DAVIDSON ATHLETES

(Continued from page 1)
great hurdler and is a deserving record
holder.
Tom Brohard ran a splendid half-mile to
take third place in another record-breaking

spring holiday menu on Monday.

None of these games can be regarded in
any way asa setup. Elon has always given
the Wildcats lots of trouble on the dia-
mond, and has taken their measure. more
than once in the last few years. The con-
tests with State and Wake Forest will of-
fer the first Big Five competition of the
season, and will will serve as a yardstick
to judge how Davidson’s nine really
stacks up against the “big league” com-
petition of the Old North State.

FRANK W. PRICE

of it, as it was in Nanking that the first mis-
sionary was killed. He was forced to with-
draw into Korea and while there he trans-
lated Dr. Sun Yat Sen’s “Three Principles
of the People.”

He was supported for several years in his
work .by subscriptions raised from the Dav-
idson student body. His was a large part in
the founding of the “Church of Christ in
China,” a new indigenous church of the
Chinese people.

It will be worth anyone's while to go to
vespers Sunday night, both.for an interesting
talk and in support of Frank W. Price, a
true representative of Davidson ideals and
Davidson Spirit.

stars, and which was timed at two minutes
and three-fifths seconds, a new field house
record, Brohard’s regular race is the 440-
yard sprint but since this was not scheduled,
the Davidson trackster entered this run and
made a speedy getaway to leave the rest of
the strong competition behind him, with the
exception of the preceding runners. It is
possible that we may account for Tom's fine
endurance by. stating that his father was an
interested spectator at the meet. He received
a bronze medal.

Bob Norton and Joe McCall, although
failing to place in the prize-taking division
gave a good account of themselves in the
half-mile and broad jump respectively.

Other prominent men in the track meet
included two more intercollegiate champions,
Nelson of Butler in the high jump and Sex-
ton of Georgetown in the shot-put. Both
won their events. handily, each establishing a
new field house record.

The Davidson athletes were well-received
by the University officials who observed the
fact that Davidson college was the most dis-
tant entry of all those represented in the
meet.

Thé field house which seats approximately
5,000 people, was filled to capacity in the
finals, which were held Saturday night.

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
NOTICE!

Shoes Half Soled
| For One Dollar

Oo.K. SHOP
Second Door From
Post Office

Alt day Tuewd Fresh needed the right vision to call out his latent
All day Tuesda Seer
: y Freshmen were re-' instincts. In the same way we need to get a

ee a ete ‘aah aie a Ne On | hird’s eye view of life in a big sense and
ir arm was = | i i et
uf Pe Ms : 3 ne pats) wit BECeu then we will see that the life of service is

resh” on it. On the lapel of their coats! the one for which we were made and in

they wore the green fresh buttons. |
|

Monday night a small tree was hidden;}
and the Freshmen were allowed till four |
np. m. Tuesday to find the tree. Of course |
the tree was found in a secluded spot, |
and it was dug up and carried to Don
King, president of the Sophomore Class,
and at four o'clock, the “tree of 33” was |
planted behind Phi Hall,members of both |
classes being present. Short addresses
were made by presidents of both classes, |
and by Dr. Walter L. Lingle. The finding |
of the tree, however, enabled the fresh- |
men to take off their caps, which, had |
the tree not been found, would not fave
take place till Easter.

After the tree planting the Freshmen in
a body went to Richardson Field for the
baseball game, during which they show-
ed their ability to cheer and “pull shines.”

After supper there was a parade to the
Drill Field, .at which time there was a
bonfire, and the caps were burned, After
the burning of the caps, all joined in sing-
ing “O, Davidson.”

I. R. C. TO BRING

Secretary General of the Canadian Patriotic
Fund, an organization which raised and dis-
tributed nearly fifty million dollars for the
support of the wives and ‘dependent relatives
of Canadian soldiers. In 1919 Sir Herbert
Ames assumed the post of “Treasurer of
the League of Nations.” ‘Phis position he
filled from 1919 to 1926, ‘living at Geneva,
the seat of the League.

During the past three years Sir Herbert
has twice visited Geneva, keeping up-to-
date on all League activities. At present
he is touring America at the request of the
Carnegie Endowment for World Peace. He
has visited and lectured in all the Canadian
Colleges and in more than thirty American
educational institutions. He speaks with
authority and knowledge on the work of the
League of Nations.

A Car for Every Family

is virtually the point
at which we have
arrived in this coun-
ma) try. More cars, more
oS Yee} accidents, “Daily re-
2 ports of fires, thefts,

collisions, property

—_——
: ag 7 3
ae os
damage increase.

More reasons for Complete Automo-

bile Protection. It is ee as neces-
sary today as tires. ccidents will |
happen! Telephone, write, or cal] |
here for information.

It's safer to have insurance—
and not need itl

Independence Trust Co.

Insurance Department
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

“DRUGS”

event, which also included many prominent

Best wishes for you on your vacation

WHITE DRUG CO.

“PRESCRIPTIONS

“SODA”

which we will be the happiest.

‘SFestis’ great sacrifice for us places an ob-
ligation upon us for service to God. If we
would be in God's service we must live clean
lives. Our influence has more effect on the
lives of others than’.we ever hear about. Are
we leading those who are following us closer
to Christ? Are we living that life of service
our mothers would have us live, according
to the example they set for us?

“Will you say to God, such as IT have give
Thee for thy glory and the good® of man-.
kind ?” i

Frank Brown spoke on “The Happiness
that Service Brings to Self.” He took as his

| text, the verse, “All that joy would win must
| share it; Happiness was born a twin.”

“We cannot live a happy life to ourselves,”
he said. “If we would be happy we must
share our lives with others. A boy came to
me on the campus a few days ago to talk
about some work that he was doing. While
he was there I asked him about some little
boys that he was teaching in Sunday School.
‘You know,’ he said, ‘that class is one of the
best things that has ever come into my ex-
perience. It makes my whole life sweeter
and more worth living.”

“One of the happiest boys on the campus
was down at the physical training building
practicing for the coming contests. Some of
us were unable to turn the front handspring
and he took his valuable training time to
come down to the jumping pit and teach us
how, although he could already easily pass
that particular test. There was the secret of
that boy’s happiness, unselfish service in
everything he did.

“The president of his senior class, captain
of the football) team and one of the most
popular boys in school recently wrote back
from the place he was preparing to go to

STUDENTS CHOOSE RUSK

(Continued from page 1)

been very active in all phases of life at Dav-
idson. He is the retiring secretary and
treasurer of the student body, vice-president
of the Freshman class, and a member of the
Beaver Club. He made his numeral in track
and is a likely candidate for the varsity, this
year. Norton belongs to Phi Delta Theta
social fraternity. He is also vice-president of
the Sophomore class.

J. D. Enochs, J. W. Fulton, and E. B.
Peabody were the three men whom the
nominating committee for student body offi-
cers nominated for secretary and treasufer
of the student body. The following men
were nominated from the floor: W. A. Flinn,
“Buddy” Gardner, A. M. Manson, and C.
M. Norfleet.

On the first ballot, all except Enochs, Nor-
fleet, and Peabody were eliminated. Nor-
fleet was elected on the second ballot.

The new secretary and treasurer was on
the freshman football squad and belongs to
Kappa Sigma social fraternity. He is from
Winston-Salem, N. C.

teach the boys in a mission on the Yangtse
river in China, to his room-mate a senior at
his old college telling him he had never been
so happy in his life and that he would be
waiting for him over in China. His room
mate as well as some of the other boys were
rather surprised that he had become a mis-
sionary and especially at his suggestion that
he come, too. However, the letter closed
with these words: “Remember, Gus, nothing
you've got is too fine or too rare to lay down
in service to Jesus Christ.’ Let’s keep this in
mind when choosing your life work. “Happi-
ness was born a twin.”

t

The “QUICK RELIEF” Cold Remedy fer
College Stadente, cold by a Cotleac Studest

YOUR URUGGIST ll Jim Gallewey
HAS COLDEX U. AS. Cw

how to represent Him.

A Minister of the Gospel

SHOULD BE

Acquainted with God:and his ways, and know

TO ACCOMPLISH THIS FOR ITS STUDENTS IS
ONE OF THE AIMS OF

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

For Catalog and Information, Address,
Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., President

Richmond, Virginia.

+

weight to suit you in HANES.

SATISFIES
YOUR EVERY UNDERWEAR NEED

SHIRTS and SHORTS
ATHLETICS and RIBS

Nobby Shirts in cotton or rayon. White, solid colors or, pastel trims.
Shorts in fancy patterns and what will you have? 50c, 75c, and $1.00. The
famous SAMSONBAK Athletic Union Suit with the patented “Tug-of-War”
belt in checks and fancy materials—$1.00. If you like Ribs, there’s a style and

P. H. HANES KNITTING CO.
Winston-Salem, N. C.

4
