N

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 8, 1930

THE DAVIDSONIAN

- Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
iegiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina. .

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

—
. WILSON McCUTCHAN ........---.--.---- Editor-in-Chief
RHO MCCA sara ea i aisle Wage sels Business Manager '

EDITORIAL STAFF ;
E. C. DWELLE ~- yt .-:Managing Editor
Wi Si WbAver cos ‘ -Managing Editor
D, G. MARTIN -____.. -Managing Editor
Wi oA ODE WSlb eve ccsecucscnucsleccesu uel Sports Editor
NOY OPE) BS Ra aE ATE IOC Feature Editor
NORMAN RAIES...__..____. ---Feature Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN --Associate Editor
u BLACK .-_... --Associate Editor
($i 07 GIN --Associate Editor
Z
BUSINESS STAFF

. A. CANNON ............)..-_Assistant Business Manager
Di OND iasccs eae al ences) Subscription Manager
ii BAKER Ls i solicitor
CONWAY .___.-._. wokoduas ..----Solicitor
Hy eMOKINNON: cuccccccvecsccsclccssce -Solicitor
OZRMANING CE aad sooGac doc cn puauacis ds wavseiuduks Gaues Solicitor
Vinh) LAO 9 SR Fe SUR aE RN Soilcitor
Ia SEVIN Revi coun si ek Mo ease cece Solicitor

Sg >

REPORTERS’ CLUB

Si) Sig WIRD yaussee scutes ecsre ya oyg ey 88 st President
D. O. STEPHENSON......-.2._,..._--..02.02. Vice-President
A. H. WHITEHEAD Secretary-Treasurer

} G. BERRY J. G. DUNKLIN

. C. MATTHEWS C. W. F. SPENCER

J. R. SMITH W. B. HANCOCK

R. F. NORTON J. M. BROWN

N. B, DICKS G. P. PARDINGTON

A. R. BIRD R. E. WITT

G. E, BAILEY R. H. ALDERMAN

E. O. GUERRANT J. E. BOYD

D. D. McBRYDE J. E. LAKE

GEORGE MILLER R, L. McCALLIE

C. F. MYERS W. F. MULLISS

S. P. PRESTON H. F. NICHOLS

B. B. SUGG NORMAN RAIES

W. B. WARD B. B. TAYLOR
a —————————_—$—$——— —————

MAY 1, 1930
SUGGESTIONS

Speaking of weather, it hasn’t rained for some
little time. Something unusual at that! Here’s the
Point; tell your friends to be considerate of the
dust they raise as they drive up’and down dor-
mitory row. A minute or two doesn’t make much
difference with the temperature as high as it is.

When you go in to “bull” with your Senior

friends, remember that their exams start on the
16th.

Several of the members of the student body and
faculty are planning trips abroad during the sum-
mer. Bon Voyage!

Courtesy is an essential factor in tennis. Be
thoughtful of the man who happens to be playing
on the court next to your own. Everybody hits a
wild one now and then.

After the cushioned chairs have been pulled
from the parlors onto the porches it wouldn’t take
much exertion to put them back. Dust doesn’t do
them any good, and, if it should rain, a damp chair
is none too pleasant for the next man to sit in.

With all due respect to her stamina it is hard
to see the benefit derived by Lady Dolores’s en-
durance run in Charlotte. There are harder tests
for both human and machine.

FAITH DISCIPLES

Last week, reference was made to the laud-
able efforts of Mu Beta Psi, without the knowl-
edge that it was a forerunner of the celebration
of National Music Week. We still commend
that body, both for its past services and for its
selections this week. However, there are other
organizations of a similar nature that have done
much for the reputation of the college, here
and elsewhere. '

As far as uniformly good presentation goes,
the Glee Club probably ranks among the first
in the group of extra-curricular activities. Al-
though its many members make it a cumber-
some body to transport and provide acommoda-
tions for, yet, with the possible exception of
the football team, the Glee Club trips are far-
ther extended than any otheg large Davidson

envoy. The program presented in the audito-.

rium was representative of the type offered
in other places. The club stands for a good
grade of light classical music, with popular
_ numbers thrown in for variation.

Peculiarly popular, for the last few years,
have been the Sunny Land Serenaders. Ap-
pearing on the same program with the Glee
Club, the orchestra has made its appeal to both
students and the general public. It is doubtful
if there is another group of musicians, special-
izing in this line, that can compare with the
local ‘‘music-makers.”

Lastly, not because of its rank but because
of its youthfulness, must be mentioned the
Violin Quartette. Known chiefly through their
renditions in chapel and at vesper services, these
four men are to become better recognized to
- the public through weekly broadcasts: from

WaT. Music can and should play an impor-
tant part in college life. These men, and others,
‘are doing their part to advance the campus
along musical lines.

| ground..

GLORY OF THE PAST

Tomorrow night there will be an illustrated
lecture in the auditorium on Woodrow Wilson.
Possibly no one man has ever been gifted with
the combined powers of educator and states-
man as he was. We urge our readers to do
homage to his memory, not as a former stu-
dent of Davidson, but as a champion of democ-
racy.

’ Anecdotes of his school days have been told
and retold on the campus. Tomorrow night
there will be offered an opportunity to learn
something of his personal life. After all, the
most interesting information about a famous
personage is that he acts in most particulars
like any other human being. Perhaps he is a
little more methodical, or slightly more concen-
trated in his endeavors.

It is peculiarly significant to observe the re-
ligious history of the great statesman from the
South. Woodrow Wilson must be placed in
the same list as Robert E. Lee, Stonewall Jack-
son, and William Jennings Bryan. Simple in
his habits and desires, President Wilson proved
an enigma to many political enthusiasts. There
have been few leaders of the country who have
been misunderstood in their intentions as was
the former President of Princeton. In a short
space of time he was tossed from.the role of
the protector of his country to the popular con-
ception of a well-meaning pacifist who desired
a world-wide federation. Students are urged to
take advantage of the opportunity to become
more cognizant of the man himself and the
forces which motivated his ideals.

ADVANTAGEOUS ADVERTISING

There is a rule of the college which deals
with the conduct of all bodies and organiza-
tions which officially represent Davidson,
wherever they may be. This is justly correct

‘and proper, and it is well that a regulation has

been placed in regard to it. Despite the pub-
licity concerning an institution of higher learn-
ing, the general public is more inclined to pass
judgment from first-hand observation and
opinion, And, from this there arises a new
viewpoint.

Undergraduates are approaching the sum-
mer vacation, some for the first, others for the
last time during their scholastic careers. Home
beckons with many possible releases from the
routine of study. There will be a joyful re-

union with old acquaintances, old environments,
old habits.

However, in addition to these, there will be
new situations and new people awaiting. David-
son will be introduced to them through every
student who is in school now. Scholastic rat-
ing means a great deal to any college or uni-
versity. Athletic showing provides a continuous
and colorful means of advertising. Yet, neither
of these two equal personal contact in their
effect. No one bases a definite conclusion on
the showing made by a group of picked indi-
viduals; it is the average that tells the tale.

Alumni and other people have no better way
in which to determine the progress and ideals
of a college than through its students. There
are few men who can act sufficiently clever
to throw off the habits, acquired during
nine months’ life on the campus, in the sum-
mer. To speak in plainer words, college life’ is
the training camp; summer is the parade

7

We do not mean to imply that students
should cover themselves with a blanket of self-
righteousness, but we insist that they should be
fair to themselves and Davidson. They should
not be afraid to admit the good points of the
college, nor should they shun the less agree-
able ones. Davidson life is such that perfect
honesty will add to the opinions already formed
in the minds of many.

There will be some alumni encountered who
have remembrances that are glorified with the
passing of years. No student should blast his
memory for the mere sake of gratifying a per-
sonal grudge. There will be others who have
allowed rumor to form a basic ground for an-
tagonism. It is necessary that these be courte-
ously and tactfully corrected.

It is only through personal testimony that
the highest type of high school graduate can
be induced to enroll at any institution. The out-
look of college confronts him as a serious prop-
osition; it is the culmination of twelve years
of preparation, and is not a joking matter. He
and his parents make their choice by the aid
of catalogues and bulletins, but chiefly do they

decide through the boys whom they know per- °

sonally.

No mention has been made of the impression
reflected upon people who do much to support
the college in a financial way. It is well recog-
nized, however, that considerable sums have
been donated to the endowment fund because
of a personal acquaintanceship with a Davidson
undergraduate. In the words of another, “What
you do speaks so loudly, that I cannot hear
what you say.” Because of the fact that a man
is a student, he is a self-appointed advertiser.

DAVIDSON -- WEEK by WEEK
By-Nor

MUSINGS of the MATADOR
Vereen Bell

Captain Norton G., Pritchett, our popular director
of physical education, during a “pep” meeting last
fall, made what many believe, the best speech de-
livered on the campus this year concerning David-
son’s athletic activities. Its essence may well be
repeated here because it concerns every man in the
student body.

Every Davidson man learns to appreciate
fact that the teams representing his college,
do so because of their vital interest and love
for the school. The greatest incentive that this
institution offers to high school stars, is the
prospect of four wholesome years of clean-
living and hard work. What could be more
ideal? This is the manner in which the never-
say-die Wildcat spirit is thoroughly instilled
into each man.

Captain Pritchett’s speech, in part, emphatically
states the following:

“There are two ways of developing athletic
teams. One is, by going out and “getting” athletes,
and the other, by taking advantage, as far as pos-
sible, of the material in college, in the hope that
every man will contribute his share whole-heart-
edly.

“Davidson’s spirit is known wherever Dav-
idson College is known, and the two are in-
evitably linked together. This spirit should be
examplified, by all men who can make them-
selves potential candidates for any of the
seven teams participating in intercollegiate
matches, Football, Golf, Basketball, Track,Ten-
nis, Baseball, or Wrestling. It is necessary to
Support your team by cheering, but it is still
better to do more.

“Regardless of your previous experience in
athletics, select one or more sports, and give
your energy and determination in contributing the
best you have to that sport. As an indication of
what may be done by men without previous ath-
letic experience, it is worth noting that many such
men have starred on Davidson teams, without past
training.. About half of the present track team
are virtually novices who have made good, and
this is more or less true in every sport.

“One thing is certain: NO MAN KNOWS
WHAT HE MAY BE CAPABLE OF DOING
UNTIL HE HAS REALLY TRIED.”

The personal challenge to be met by every stu-
dent interested in Davidson’s future is just this:
“A quitter never wins; a winner never quits.”

John Ballenger Knox’s desire to go abroad and
begin his career in the world seems to be conta-
gious. It wil! be.remembered that sometime ago
there appeared in this column a description of
John’s future job—that of being an instructor in
the American college at Beyrouth, Syria, where he
is to remain three years. Now it seems that seven
other Davidson men have decided to leave the
United States to start their professional lives. Neill
McGeachy has signed up, also for three years, to
be a supervisor in a teachers’ training school in
Khartum, Egypt. Bob McDermid has procured a
position as a South American agent for the United
Fruit Company, with offices in Buenos Aires. “Rut”
Nunan, although his contact is yet unsigned, plans
to do virtually the same thing as Neill does, ex-
cept that he will be located in Turkey. John Alden
and Bob Witt are planning on spending some time
in Guatemala, working with archaelogists, in a
part of the country where there is no water what-
soever. Bill Henry Morrison and John Zenas Pres-

ton have also decided to go to South America to,

accept the challenge of the so-called heartless
world, and these two men will be employed in
medical research work in Argentina,

Davidson College, it is very interesting to note,
has sent seven men to the Major Leagues, since
the American and National loops have been or-
ganized. Each man was a real star while in col-

lege, and some even continued their good work in
the Majors.

Although the following list may be subject
to error, it is believed to be correct. They are:
Everett Booe, ’11, Philadelphia Athletics; J. C.
Cashion, ’14, Cincinnati Reds; Lloyd Christen-
bury, ’17, Washington Senators; “Pat” Craw-
ford, '23, now with the New York Giants; Buck
Marrow, ’31, Detroit Tigers, who is being train-
ed in a minor league subject to recall; and
Bobby Vail, 05, Chicago Cubs.

Perhaps Pat Crawford at present, is the best
known in the group because. of his well-known
pinch-hitting prowess, and especially since he has
been playing as McGraw’s utility infielder of late.
He is one of the National League’s most colorful
players.

A Davidson man’s idea of a model philanthropic
alumnus—one who will supply each dormitory
shower room with new sprays.

Scene: Unusual.

“Good morning, Judge.”

“Haven't I seen your face before?”
“Before what, Jud: ! rite

“T thought I told you I didn’t want to see you
again.”

“That's what I told the officer, but he brought
me on anyhow.”

“Do you brush your teeth?”

“Religiously, sir, eyery Sunday morning.”

“Officer, what is this man charged with?”

“Hitting a man with a croquet mallet. I thought
that was wicket. He also stole a man’s wallet,
watch, fountain pen and overcoat.

“Prisoner, why did you steal these things?”

‘Money alone cannot bring happiness, your hon-
or. I’m not the same man I was ten years ago?

“Who were you ten years ago?”

By the way do you know anything about chem-
istry?”

“What’s her first name?”

“What do you know about nitrates?”

“Much cheaper than day rates.”

“What about oxides?”

“Thinner than regular cow hides.”

“Prisoner, I can tell your fortune.”

“How much?”

“Twenty-five cents.”

“Correct, judge. I don’t think I ’Ill be back here
any more.”

“Why?”

“Well, I am beginning to write songs. I sang
this one the other night and everybody cried,
‘Fine,—fine!’”’

“And did you have to pay it?”

“Tsk, tsk, judge. I am going to try to sell this
this one.”

(Sings)

“Well, how much should I get for it?”

“Three months at the least.”

“Say, your honor, is a paradox a’ couple of
physicians?”

“ORDER!”

“Ham and eggs!”

“Has your nose ever been broken?”

“Yes, sir, in three places.” —

“Why don’t you stay out of those places? Your
sentence is three months on the chaingang or $50.”

“I'll take the fifty dollars and thank you kindly,
sir.’’s

“No, I'mean you'll have to pay the fifty. Do you
want to borrow any money?”

“Can you loan me seventy-five dollars?”

“Well you can let me have the fifty dollars and
Owe me twenty-five.”

“Do you realize that, in your words, you are in
contempt of court?”

“Sir, words cannot express my contempt for
this court.”

“My man, you are a vagabond and a tramp.”

“My dual personality!”

“Are you content to walk from one town to
another the rest of your life?”

“No many’s the time I have wished I had an
automobile.”

“You aren’t such a bad sort. I expect my wife
would:like to have you for dinner.”

“Oh, so your wife is a cannibal.”

“Prisoner, you are also charged with hitting a
man with a croquet mallet. Did you do this?”

“Yes, your honor.”

“Why?”

“Why ?”

“Because I was mad with him.”

“Oh, I know that. But why were you mad with
him? He is a perfectly respectable telegraph oper-
ator.”

“I gave him a telegram to my girl and he read
it—right in front of me, too.”

“Well, that man died. You are going to sit in a
nice, new electric chair. You have a minute to live.
Is there anything you want?” .

“Yessir. Can I have a three-minute egg?”

“Sorry. The only two eggs we, have are rotten.”

“Well now isn’t that just two bad!”

Small Boy (just home from school): “Papa,
what does ‘gozinto’ mean?”

Father: “I don’t know, my son. Where did you
hear that word?”

Boy: “At school, I heard the teacher say: ‘Six
gozinto twelve twice.’”

Bride: “I would like to buy an easy chair for my
husband.”

Salesman: “Morris?”

Bride: “No, Clarence.”

Lady (in pet store) : “I like this dog, but his legs
are too short.”

Clerk:: “Too short! Why, madam, they all four
reach the floor.”
