+ Hae

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 15, 1930

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents
iegiate Year. Entered as second c
Office, Davidson, North Carolina,

er copy; $2.00 the Col-
lass matter at the Post

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the

Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.
_—
¢ Ft WON Fs cana ical zicniessucuubbauese Editor-in-Chief
By MOCAGG iiisecveancovksacccstcseueusss Business Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
E. C. DWELLE ..:..2........... Managing Editor
W. S. LEA. ..-..... --Managing Editor
D. G. MARTIN ... _..----Managing Editor
W._H. 5 Va ated by Sports Editor
Vv. M. Feature Editor
NORMAN, RATES -----Feature Editor
PGR SAUDE RMAN bi ucpscsscucpecssccnsbesson Associate Editor
eS LAC Associate Editor
fai e Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

}: A. CANNON? ciscacecceeuseeee Assistant Business Manager
L. BOYD --.--.----Subscription Manager
A. ii BAKER .... or
P ;
J. H. McKINNO

O. MAN

E.

L.

REPORTERS’ CLUB

Si Si WILBY.uesses a President
D. O. STEPHENS -Vice-President
A. H. WHITEHEAD- Z|

J. G. BERRY J. G. DUNKLIN

J. C. MATTHEWS» C. W. F. SPENCER

J. R. SMITH W. B. HANCOCK

R. F. NORTON J. M. B N

N. B. DICKS G. P. PARDINGTON

A. R. BIRD R. E.

G. E. BAILEY R. H. ALDERMAN

E. O. ea Sy J. E. BOYD

D. D. McBRYDE J. E. LAKE

GEORGE MILLER R. L. McCALLIE

Cc. F. MYERS *’ -W..F. MULLISS

S. P. PRESTON . H, F. NICHOLS

B. B. SUGG NORMAN RAIES

W. B. WARD B. TAYLOR

MAY 15, 1930

SUGGESTIONS

Dodge announcements in chapel by handing
your news to The Davidsonian. It is the common
servant, and is glad to publish your items of in-
terest.

As suggested last week, be considerate to the
Seniors during their exams. It is the last such
period they have.

Doc Kugler pitched good ball against Duke to
shut them out. Let every student be out for the
final game of the season!

It pays to keep a tab on current events. The
people you meet during the summer months will
respect you the more if you know something about

the Congress and Senate as well as the batting
averages of Babe Ruth and Lefty O’Doul.

Because intra-mural and varsity athletics are
completed don’t grow stale in the luxury of not
having to exercise. Take a couple of turns about
the track. It is worth more than an “every day in
every way.”

Mothers were remembered especially on Sun-
day. Don’t hasten to forget them during the com-
ing weeks and months, because they are the col-
lege boys’ most valuable assets.

- QUIPS AND CRANKS

As another numbers of Quips and Cranks
makes its bow, we wish to congratulate the
Senior Class and those men directly connécted
with it. It would appear that students are too
prone to forget that the annual is the Senior
Year. Book, and it is as much of a class func-
tion as Junior Speaking or any other program
directly recognized. The present staff has done
much to emphasize this fact in a way both
forceful and tactful. Most noticeable is this in
regard to the proportion of space given to
Senior pictures and activities. This class dis-
tinction is as it should be, for’class fellowship
is one of the most binding of college ties. In
the annual the Seniors both leave and earry
away the record of their collegiate achieve-
ment.

Also, we desire to compliment the staff, with
Pratt as editor, on the manner in which the
theme was chosen and presented. As stated in
the book, the subject of school spirit can be
easily broken into hackneyed fragments through
overwork or misrepresentation. A happy me-
dium is attained, however, and that “Wildcat
Spirit” makes its appeal again-and again, both
artistically and emphatically. Its embodiment
lies in the constructive era depicted, and it is
introduced by dedication to Dr. William Joseph
Martin, a man who gave everything he had for
the school.

There is another phase of Quips and Cranks
which many students often forget. The financ-
ing of an expensive work of this kind presents
a considerable problem, and the business staff
makes possible and delivers the literary record,

It is unfair to”’consider one staff without the
other; both have had their part to play, and»
they: have finished it.

EXAMINATIONS

Ther are few students on the campus who
do not apply themselves more diligently when
they realize that exams are upon them, It is
not the fear of failure as much as the natural
nervous tension, which accompanies the thought
of the critical value accruing to three hours’
condensed endeavor, which produces strain.

At no time during the school year should
morale be at a higher tide. Every effort of
former work has been pointing to this grand
finale. Not only is this true in scholdstic mat-
ters, but one of the most important phases of
student government deals with these tests.

Honor is cherished on the campus above all
other factors. The individual fades into mini-
mum consideration when compared with the
general ethical standard.. Not only for himself,
but for the comfort and convenience of others
does the student comply with the ideals orig-
inated by former. men and subscribed to by
himself.

We do not intend to give the .impression
that Davidson tradition requires bolstering and.
reinforcement. At times of possible stress it
exhibits its qualities plainer than ever before.
It is not in the power of one body, man or
organization, to instigate or maintain an honor
system, but it is preserved through the com-
bined interests of each and every student.

It is not that there has been any comment or
criticism made on the situation. We merely con-
tend that the man who is physically and men-
tally fit is better prepared to confront the not
altogether pleasant task before him. The con-
test is scheduled at a set date, why not do a
little training for it?

HUMOR AND LITERATURE

At last the question of a local humorous
magazine has arisen. It will be recollected by
upper-classmen that the existence and main-
tenance of the Chameleon hasbeen disputed
in past years. At that time the student body,
by a practically. unanimous vote, went on rec-
ord as being in favor of: supporting it. Since
that date there has been little discussion in
regard to the matter.

Now, the possibility of changing the policies
of the magazine has confronted the students.
It is probable that it has been voted upon and
decided. In any event a summary of the sit-
uation can do no harm,

There has been no editor of the Chameleon
during the last few years who has not com-
plained of the slight number of contributors.
[t seems that number after number is filled
by the same men who, being creatively. in-
clined or not, have the time to write. Every
effort has been made to encourage Freshmen
and others who have some misgivings in their
brain children, and, that if they don’t succeed
at first, they should try it again. With one or
two exceptions these labors have been in vain.
Is it that students are not capable of produc-
ing literature, or that they are not sufficiently
interested ? It must be the latter.

On the other hand, the popularity of the hu-
morous collegiate publication is not to be de-
nied, It must also be recognized that a David-
son humor magazine will not be of the same
type as those printed under the name of many
of the larger schools. and universities. There
are quite a few points which must be taken into
consideration. p

In the first place it will be impractical to
attempt to place a’ Davidson magazine in gen-
eral public circulation. This is neither advised
nor desired. Local publications are for the ben-
efit of students, faculty, and alumnic of the

school.
Secondly, because of.the size of the institu-
tion, the staff would be unable to finance the

multitudinous number of cuts and engravings
which are generally found in magazines of this
type. Therefore the majority of humor must
confine itself to prose, poetry, and parodies.

In the third place, the type of humor must
be high. It would be utterly impossible for an
effort to go forth from Davidson without hav-
ing the best mark of approval upon it. Trite
expressions and puns will not suffice in making
a good witty number. There must be some-
thing subtle and acute in it.

There is an abundance of good humor in
the world, but it takes patience to draw it forth
in an original manner, and originality counts.
Because news spreads quickly within a group of
democratic young men, it is difficult to find a
source of supply which has not been tapped by
one student in six hundred. If there can be a
humorous magazine which can supply wit of
high calibre, freshness, and intelligence, it will
accomplish much good and fill a place which is
ready for it.

Man is reluctant to plunge himself into new |

environment. It is natural that there should be
some hesitation as to the best plan in the long
run. Every college should have its literary pub-
lication, but humor is desired and has a par-
ticular niche of its own. There are those who
resent the loss of a purely literary voice; others
look’ forward with anticipation to a new era.
We say frankly that we do not know. The pres-
ent age is one of experiment, and Columbus
would not have discovered America in 1492 if
he had not wondered.

DAVIDSON -- WEEK by WEEK

By-Nor

MUSINGS of the MATADOR
Vereen Bell

a

Traveling abroad seerns to have become a hobby
for the Davidson College faculty.

The following members have spent one sum-
mer each traveling in Europe: Professors E
ing, J. L. Douglas, J. M. Dougla . Mc-
Connell, Arbuckle, Currie, emake, Wood,
Erwin, and Cumming. Pr6fessor Richards com-

a

bined a trip to Palestine and Egypt with a summer"

trip to Europe. President Lingle spent one summer
in Europe, and another summer in which he com-
bined a trip to Palestine dnd Egypt with a Euro-
pean trip. Dean Sentelle has taken two summer
trips to Europe, Palestine and Egypt. Professors
J.W. MacConnell and Goldiere have passed two
summers in Europe in travel. Our Librarian, Miss
Shaw, has spent three summers traveling in Europe,
and has included visits to Palestine, Egypt, and
Spitzbergen. Professor Lilly has spent four sum-
mers traveling in Europe, Professor Lnngle five
summers, and Professor Watts seven summers.

Professor Grey passed one summer in Eu-
ropean travel and two summers studying in
Paris and Rome. Professor Brown spent one
summer, Professor Blythe and Professor Lingle
two summers studying in European univer-
sities. Professor Hood experienced a year of
study and travel in Europe, and Professor
Cumming spent a year studying in European
libraries. Professors Watts, Blythe, Lilly, and
Henderson enrolled from one to two years
each as students in European universities dur-
ing regular sessions. Professor Lingle traveled
and studied for six months in the lands of the
Levant, including Mesopotamia. Professors
Vowles and Lingle studied at European uni-
versities several years, the former taking his
Master’s degree at, Oxford, and the latter, his
Doctorate at Leipsic. Professor Foreman spent
some time in boyhood days in Europe while his
father was a student at the German univer-
sities.

Professor Cullum is a native of England where
he spent his early years. Professors Porter, J. W.
MacConnel, Lingle, Goldiere, Blythe, Pritchett and
Watts, as well as all the military members of our
faculty, saw war service in France, after which
Professor Goldiere studied for a semester at a
French university.

Professor Porter spent three years in edu-
cational work in India, Professor Lingle three
years in a like manner in southern Brazil, while
Professor Fleagle spent nine years as an edu-
cator in Porto Rico, and has more recently
‘visited Mexico and Central America. Profes-
sor Blythe, who is on leave of absence, studied
at the National University in Mexico City, for
a summer.

Professors Lingle and Watts combined, have

crossed the Atlantic in one direction or the
other, a total of forty times, the former holding
the distinction of having been for some time on
each of the five continents of the world.
* Professors Foreman, Lilly, Cumming and Trues-
dale are planning to go to Europe this coming
summer, while Professor Porter has South Ameri-
ca in view,

On behalf of the student body, it must be said that
the College, orchestra known as the
Sunnyland Serenaders, has won for itself, in the
eyes of Davidson men, the distinction of being one
of the best collegiate bands in the South, They
were duly appreciated for their part in the stu-
dent body banquet.

Davidson

The orchestra, typically collegiate, will un-
fortunately lose two important members of its
personnel through graduation—A. J. Thomps-
son, the versatile director, and Charlie Orr, the
inimitable trumpet player. However, Bill Hays,
Reves Pope, Bob Orr, Bryce Robinson, Jack
Ramseur the newly-elected director, Bill Poole,
and W. W. Caligan remain to re-develop an-
other good one—and we hope they won't leave

t “Tiger Rag” in their compilation of new
numbers next year.

Polk and Sandy Moffett, twin sons of the college
pastor, seem to be Davidson's unofficial mascots.
These two boys whom everybody likes, and who
wear perpetual smiles, are friends to every student.
And it might be said that a football or baseball
game, without the twins, who become “peanut”
venders for a day, wouldn’t seem right.

A new impressive ceremony was added to
Davidson’s vast treasure of traditions three
weeks ago, when the student body installation
service was held in Chambers. After this suc-
cessful initial year it is to become an annual
affair. Charlie Pratt’s “to you, Andrew,” in the
midst of his speech prompted by his giving
over the editorship of the Quips and Cranks to
Andy Bird, although unintentionally (7?) hu-

’Twas a merry day in the old army camp. New
recruits were coming in. One new man was sitting
down on the ground, ooking very tired. A corporal
came “RTE,

“What's the matter, tien? Got fallen arches or
something ?”

“Worse than that, general. I got corns.”

“Why don’t you do something about them?”

“Well, I did drink three cans of corn syrup, but
you know that stuff ain't even done me aa
good.”

“Now that’s just too bad. By the way “have you
seen the captain?”

“No sir.”

With that the corporal walked off and after a while
came back again.

“Say, haven't you seen the captain yet?”

“No sir, I still ain’t seen him.”

The corporal left and in a minute another man_
walked up.

“Say, are you the captain?” asked the recruit.

“Why yes, I am the captain,” answered that officer.

“Well, you sure got yours coming. That corporal
has been looking all over for you.”

“Say, you blockhead, do you know who I am?”
bellowed the captain.

“No sir, I can’t say that I do.”

“Well, | ath the commander of this company 1a

“And do you know who I am?”

“No.”

“Well, thank goodness for that,”
and dashed madly around the corner.

The next morning, a lieutenant saw him wander-
ing around idle and decided to put him to work.

“Come with me, my man. I have some work for
you to do.”

They went down to.the stables and the lieutenant
told him to go and get his horse. The private went
in and after a while he yelled that the horse was
loose.

“Did you guard all the entrances?” cried the officer.

“Yes sir,’ he answered, “but I think maybe he
went out one of the exits.”

They finally caught the horse, however, and the
lieutenant gave instructions.

“T want you no take my horse and have him shod.”

“Oh, yes sir.’

A little later the private came back and said that
he had done as he was told.

“Good,” said the officer. “Now where is my horse?”

“Oh, he’s down in the creek.”

“Down in the creek! I thought I told you to have
him shod!”

“Have him shod! Well, now if that ain't just too
funny. All the time I thought you said shot.”

“Say, what business were you in before you joined
the army?”

“IT was a tailor.”

“Well, do you know how to make a pair of pants
last ?”

“Why, of course. Make the coat and vest first.”

“And what made you leave your job?”

“My boss did something I didn’t like.”

“What?”

“Fired me.”

“Well, you'll just have to learn a few things around
here. Do you know what a cadet is?”

ane -said

said the recruit

“Ves sir. He’s the feller that carries the golf
clubs.”
“My, but you are dumb. Your intelligence is but

a myth. I guess you don’t even know what a myth is.”

“Oh, yes [ do. A myth is a female moth,”

Doc’s Orders
“Did you do as I said and drink hot water an

hour before breakfast?’

“lL tried to Doe, but ten minutes was as long as

I could keep it up.’ ¥

Oh My!
For Valentine Day she bought me
Some green and yellow ties,
Her heart is in the right place,
But where, oh where, are her eyes!

My brother is working with 5,000 men under
him?

Where?

Mowing lawns in a cemetery.—T. P. V.

A census clerk, in scanning one of the forms to
see if it had been properly filled up, noticed the
agures “120” and “112” under. the heading, “Age
of father, if living,” and “Age of mother, if living.”

“But your parents were nover so old?” asked the
istonished clerk.

“No,” was the reply, “but they would have been
f living!”
Teacher: “If I gave you a big red apple and you

rave Robert seventh-eighths of it, what would you

lave?”
Tommy : “Some kind of disease in my brain.”
These jokes are mostly devoted to Phillip.

To Phillip who?

To Phillip space.

morous, served in the opinion of many, as the
high spot of the occasion.

Zeb Long won another honor a few days ago
when he was awarded the “Princeps” cup, a prize
‘annually’ given by the Pi Kappa Alpha frater-
nity to its most outstanding member in North
and South Carolina collegiate activities.

