THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 10, 1930

After Graduation --- Education?

Education Offers Promising Field To
College Men In Chessine a Life Work

Return Large to-V to Well-Equipped
Teachers, Both in Money and
in Personal Satisfaction

By Joy Elmer Morgan, Editor Journal of
the National Education Association

Since educational workers hold positions
of large responsibility in the various com-
munities, all are expected to have a good
general education, The National Education
Association, which consists of more than
160,000 of the Nation’s best teachers, had
taken the following stand upon the matter
of training for the profession:

We believe that the ends which we seek
demand, above all else, an immediate and
thoroughgoing improvement of the agencies
for the preparation of teachers. We com-
mend and indorse the conviction, now
rapidly gaining favor in our profession and
the public mind, that those who enter the
public school service, whether they are to
teach in rural schools or in urban schools,
in elementary or in high schools,
should have had a minimum of four years’
planned preparation, following upon gradu-
ation from a four-year high school.

so

schools

Teaching is now passing through a_pe-
riod of transition, so that conditions vary
widely in different sections of the coun-
try. There are still thousands of schools in
rural communities where teachers have had
only an eighth grade education and less,
while on the other hand some school sys-
tems, such as the high schools of California,
prefer teachers with a master’s degree. One
should always get all the training that his
circumstances will permit, for the oppor-
tunities in education are limited only by the
energy and skill at one’s command.

Considering the large opportunities and
responsibilities that come to educational
workers,'the ‘period of apprenticeship is short..
The careers bf some of our best educational
leaders show} a record that runs something
like this—a Year or two as teacher in a
rural school, 4 few years as principal of a
small village sthool, a term as superintend-
ent of a town sthool leading on up to some
State school office, or an important position
in an institution ‘of higher education.

The most numerous branch of the pro-
fession is classroom teaching, which may fur-
ther be subdivided into rural schools, city
schools, and into elementary, junior high
school, senior high school, junior college,
college and the professional school. While
teaching is not so highly paid as adminis-
trative work, it is probably the most satis-
fying branch of the profession, for persons
naturally adapted to it. All through the his-
tory of education the names that have been
greatest are those of teachers. The teacher
in direct contact daily with young people
eager to learn has an opportunity to per-
petuate ideals and to build and beautify life
that is rarely found elsewhere.

There has long been an impression that
the best teachers should be in the higher
schools. It has been a common practice to
pay more to teachers in the grammar grades
and high schools than to teachers of the
younger children. This is changing as the
importance of the early years is more appre-
ciated. Lord Fisher of England remarked,
after a recent trip through our country, that
great service could be rendered by endow-
ing a few elementary schools so that they
might employ at large salaries men and
women of unusual energy and outlook. This
would give an opportunity for experiment
in the development of the art of teaching
which would profoundly affect schools every-
where.

Next to teaching, in the number of posi-
tions afforded, is the elementary school prin-
cipalship. He must know how to select
teachers and direct their work, create school
spirit, make contacts between the school and
the life around it, and at the same time di-
rect the management in a general way.

Next comes the superintendency of schools
in a city, district, or county. The modern
superintendent is) a trained executive and
professionalist of the highest order, combin-
ing, unusual insight and working technique
with large responsibility and ‘opportunity
for guiding the growth of teachers and the
development of children.

A growing branch of the profession is res
search. Persons who have the scientific atti-
tude of. mind combined with an interest in

ry

people will find no better place for hey le tal-
ents than in the research bureaus that are
growing up in connection with city and
State school systems where human prob-
lems will more and more be studied in a
scientific, objective way.

The heed of public recreation in both city
and country is developing a group of spe-
cial workers known as playground directors
or superintendents of recreation. It has been
estimated that were this field fully devel-
oped it would demand one full-time worker
for cach two thousand people to obtain the
best results.

Librarianships should attract persons who
have a love of books combined with a love
of people. This branch of education is still
young. The American Library Association
is but fifty The field is expand-
ing rapidly as the schools create a demand
for higher intelligence in the community.
Just now this field especially needs men who
have the personal qualities that will enable
them to win from the community larger ap-
preciation of the library and more financial
support for it.

years old,

Salaries for teachers still leave something
to be desired, although there has been Jarve
improvement during recent years. The fig-
ures gathered by the Research Division of
the National Education Association for the
year 1924-1925 show medium yearly salaries
for elementary teachers in one-teacher rural
schools, $755; for clementary teachers in
cities of 2,500 to 5,000 population, $1,129.
The medium salary paid supervising cle-
mentary principals in cities of 30,000 to
100,000 population was $2,484 and for super-
intendent of schools, $6,000. These averages
are, of course, greatly lowered by the sal-
aries paid in sections of the country where
educational conditions are still primitive.
Salaries in the better communities are much
higher and there is always room at the top.
There are now scores of positions that pay
over $10,000 a year, and a few which pay
considerably more.

Education offers unusually rich opportuni-
ties just now to young persons of energy,
ideals, and training. Discussions of educa-
tion are on every tongue. Popular apprecia-
tion of education is indicated by the crowds
of young men and women clamoring for
admission to high school and college. That
there is room for improvement is shown by
criticisms of various phases of public edu-
cation. No institution holds a higher place
in modern life than the No profes-
sion is growing more rapidly than educa-
tion. It will be at least twenty-five years
before there will be an adequate supply of
teachers fully trained to meet the needs of
the schools. There is some advantage in it.
So rapidly are conditions changing that al-
most any statement based on today’s situa-
tion will need enlargement tomorrow. The
whole spirit of the school is changing. The
old school placed much stress of formal dis-
cipline and verbal types of learning. The
new school builds its curriculum around
live pupil activities.

school.

(This article is an extract from “An Out-
line of Careers,” published by George H.
Doran Co.)

Bulletins

Catalogues of the leading schools
of Education may be obtained on
the Vocational Guidance table in the
entrance of the “Y” rooms. Any one
interested is urged to read these
catalogues, but please use them in
the “Y” rooms, and return them to
the table as there will probably be
others who will want to read them.

PYRAMID CLUB

(Continued from Page 1)

the campus. Taylor Bledsoe was next intro-
duced as the outstanding politician at Uni-
versity of North Carolina while he was in
school there. He made a very interesting
talk, emphasizing the former relations of
the Pyramid Club to the Sigma Phi Epsilon
Fraternity. Charles Orr said a few words
in behalf of the Pan-Hellenic Gouncil, wel-
coming the new chapter to this organization.

The following were initiated into the
North Carolina Epsilon Chapter of the Sig-
ma Phi Epsilon Fraternity: Active mem-
bers H. Pettus, Jr., President, Asheville;
S. C. Booker, Clayton; EK. C. Close, Chat-
tanooga, Tenn.; J. B. Knox, Liberty, S. C.;
J.. F. McInnis, Concord; W. A. Howard,
Raeford; C. W. Kuykendall, Charleston, W.
Va.; F. R. Pilcher, President-elect, Charles-
ton, W. Va.; F. LL. Wilson, Montreat; W.
M. Belk, Lancaster, S. C.; KE. S. Bettis,
Morristown, Tenn.; R, P. Davis, Lancaster,
S. C.; N. B. Dicks, Chattanooga, Tenn. ;
C. FE. Bettis, Morristown, Tenn.; C. M.
Howard, Raeford; J. W. Lec, Ronceverte,
W. Va.; H. Morrison, Mooresville; C. B.
Moseley, Staunton, Va.; A. Patton, Jr.,
Greenville, S. C.; J. W. Reich, Elkin; FE.
W. Shackleford, Durham. Alumni—S. J.
Allison, Glade Springs, Va., ’29; D. H.
Howard, Jr., Cornell University, '28; J. T.
Kimbrough, Davidson, ’26; R. W. Lack-
mond, Georgia Tech, '32; W. T. Lasley,
Burlington, 32; W. A. McAulay, Jr., Louis-
ville, Ky., '25; J. L. McGee, Pittsburgh,
Pa., '28; J. C. McNeely, Charlotte, ‘29; M.
R. Patrick, Belmont, ’25; E. H. Solter, Hun-
tington, W. Va., '28; W. M. Strong, Jr.,
Charlotte, ‘29; J. M. Trotter, Charlotte, ’25;
W. E. Wilkinson, University of North Car-
olina, '28. Several other alumni of the Pyra-
mid Club found it impossible to come for
the installation but will be initiated by chap-
ters near them or will come to Davidson
later.

WAKING CHANCES.

While traveling you can watch your

baggage—some of the time. While
your effects are away from home being
laundered, pressed, repaired, etc., you
cannot watch them.

When losses occur! save annoyance
and delay in recovering therefor by
having Personal Effects insurance. We
should appreciate an opportunity to ex-
plain’ this protection.

It's safer to have insuranec—
and not need it!

Independence Trust Co.

Departmen
CHARLOTTE, N. c

NOW IS THE TIME

Any type

S‘E‘'N’I°O°R’S

GRAVED CARDS MADE. SEE ME.

Best Quality and Prices

ERNEST H. McCALL
108 Watts

Representing

ee STANDARD PRINTING CO.
Charlotte, N. C.

TO HAVE YOUR EN-

of Printing

Successful College Teaching Requires
Many Years In Preparation For Work

William L. Bryan Urges Young
Men Not to Rush Into Active
Professorship

A teacher in a college or university should

a master in his field. If he is to accom-
plish his work satisfactorily and rise in the
profession he must have training of a very
expert kind. After his high school course,
he should spend four years in college secur-
ing a broad general education, Then he
should spend three years more in a univer-
sity devoting his major time to the field
in which he desires to specialize. During
this three-year period of post-graduate work
he should choose some ,problem and investi-
gate it thoroughly. He must survey the en-
tire literature upon the problem,
This requires the perusing of foreign pub-
lications and so he should be able to read
foreign languages, preferably French and
German, After a long period of study upon
his problem this advanced student should
imake some contribution of his own, that
is, he should discover some fact not already
known.

be

bearing

In addressing a young man who contem-
plates a life of teaching in an institution of
higher learning, President William I
counsels :

. Bryan
“T advise you to distinguish your-
self from nearly all your fellows in the grad-
uate school by the length of time you take
for preparation.” Some years ago a pro-
fessor in the School of Medicine at Johns
Hopkins University spoke to me upon this
point. He said that in his own case he had
avoided assuming much work as a teacher
during the first ten years after his gradua-
tion in order that he might have most of
his time and strength for the maturing
of his own studies. He said that according
to his observation most of our young. schol-
ars make a grave mistake at this point.
They wish to get through. They wish to
get- the-doctor’s-degree—in_as_few. semesters
as possible. They wish to get a foot upon
the ladder of university promotion. Perhaps
they lack money. Perhaps they wish to
marry. The young doctor who has written
a promising thesis and has caught a glimpse
of important work beyond finds himself

presently drowned in the work of an in-

structor. He has little leisure, little energy
left. He becomes set on a low level. He

becomes a permanent assistant professor. Or,
if a nominal promotion comes, then a pro-
fessor with arrested development.”

If the teacher is going to be a leader in
his field he must constantly engage in re-
search. By this is meant investigation lead-
ing toward the discovery of new facts, The
policy held by most university authorities
is’ that a university should serve as a center
for the discovefy as well as the dissemina-
tion of knowledge. According to this view,
then, the university teacher is not fulfilling
his real duty to humanity unless he vigor-
ously engages in research. All. apart from
this is the well-established fact that research
reacts upon one’s teaching ability. A man
is better able to serve the students in his
classes if he is himself prosecuting original
investigations, Finally, it behooves every one
to engage in research and publish his find-
ings because such work best furthers his
academic advancement. It is by such signs
that the world can most easily judge con-
cerning his merit.

Objection to this advice is sometimes made
by college and university teachers on the
ground that they cannot carry on research
activities because they are required to give
so much classroom instruction. The answer
is that most of the men who havé accom-
plished research have done so during the
carly part of their career by forcing it be-
tween the periods of their classroom instruc-
tion. After they had demonstrated that they
had the ability and the will to do research
they were then given a lighter teaching
schedule which allowed them more leisure
for research. In some institutions certain
men are appointed to do hothing but re-
search, Their salary is usually about that of
a professor.

(This article is an extract from a bulletin
published by Indiana University.)

Neighbor: “I am very sorry, old man,
that my chickens invaded your garden.”

His Neighbor: “That's nothing; my dog
ate your chickens.”

Neighbor: “That's great; I just ran over

your dog with my car.”

$29.50

CLOTHES

STETSON “D” STORE

lr ar a

COLLEGE MAN

COMPLETE LINE OF FURNISHINGS

$34.50

FOR THE

Monday and Tuesday, 14th and 15th
THE GOLDEN CALF

with
EL BRENDEL and SUE CARROLL

Wednesday, 16th
DANGEROUS | PARADISE

with
NANCY CARROLL

Davidson Theatre

Thursday and Friday, 17 and 18th
MONTANA MOON

JOAN CRAWF ORD

Saturday
THE LONE STAR RANGER
GEORGE O'BRIAN

MAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA

.
