THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 20, 1930

yy
sll, :

7 !
Oise)

1h
NY

Alumni Personals

Several of the alumni came by the alumni
headquarters when they were at Davidson
for the Carolina-Davidson game. Saturday.
Some of these were Dr. C. C. Orr, 05, Ashe-
ville; T. D. Morrison, 03, Asheville; L. H.
Wilkinson, ’13, Charlotte; R. B. Cunning:
ham, Jr., 19, Columbia, S. C.; W. H. Fitts,
26, Sanford; W. H. Bordeaux, '27, and R,
H. McIlwaine, ’27, both of Philadelphia ;
J. K. Hand, ’27, Charlotte; R. S. Lowrance,
Jr. Troy; E. C. Close, ’30, Chattanooga,
Tenn.; Zeb V. Long, Jr., ’30, Lynchburg,
Va.; E. H. McCall, ’30, Salisbury; V. A,
Milton, ’30, Thomasville, Ga.; W. H. Mor-
rison, ’30, Monroe; H. EF. Russell, 30, De-
catur, Ga., and I. C. Griffin, Jr., ’32, Chapel
Hilt.

Others who have recently visited in the
alumni office include Rev. C. L, Crane, ’07,
of Africa, on furlough at Hickory; S. V.
Daniel, '09, of Huntington, W. Va.; Rev.
KE. H. Hamilton, ’17, of China, on furlough at
Atlanta, Ga.; J. M. Barr, ’23, Greenville,
S. €., and Glenn A. Fry, ’29, of Durham.

Five members of the Union Theological
Seminary ‘delegation who will be visiting
Davidson next week-end are laumni of the
institution. They include James A. Caligan,
27; T. H. Hamilton,’ ’27; Leighton Mc-
Cutchen, ’27; James S. Gray, ’28, and R. 0,
Flinn, Jr., ’29,

1299

H. Spence, Jr., '22, is professor
of religious education at Hastings College,

Hastings, Nebraska.

Rev. T.

John E. Bradley, ’29, is teaching this year
at Stovall, N. C.

Dr. H. Dabney Kerr, ’14, is associate pro-
fessor and head of the department of Roen-
genology at the University of Towa Medical
School,- lowa City, Towa.

R. W. Oceland, ’25, is now with
Anchor Cap Co., 22 Queens Road,

Island, N. Y.

the
Long

D. R. McEachern, ’28, is completing his
medical work at the Medical College of Vir-
ginia, Richmond, Va., and A. S. Rose, ’28,
is doing likewise at the Harvard Medical
School. Both took two years at the Uni-
versity of North Carolina.

C. S. Hicks, ’07, is connected with the
Morris Plan Industrial Bank, of Raleigh.

Julian R. Briggs, ’25, is with the branch
of the National City Bank of New York,
located in Manila, Philippine Islands. Mr.
Briggs recently wrote that he will complete
his four-year tour of the Orient in April,
1931, and will then have a nine months’
leave of absence.

Dr. Oren Moore, ’08, of Charlotte, was
recently made head of the Kiwanis Club in
that city.

Rev. Coyte Hunter, 19, of Bessemer City,
is assisting in a series of evangelistic services
at the South Broad Street Presbyterian
Church in Gastonia.

Twelve men recently met in Greensboro
to plan a meeting of the Presbyterian men
of North Carolina for next January. Of
these 12, seven were Davidson alumni, These
included Rev. H. N. McDiarmid, ’11, Shelby ;
Rev. R. E. McClure, ’20, New Bern; F. L.
Jackson, '06, Davidson; Rev. H. G. Bedinger,
11, Red Springs; Rev. T. G. Tate, ’10, Gas-
tonia; Rev. A. P. Dickson, ’09, Greensboro,
and J. M. Wells, Jr.,/ 16, Winston-Salem.

John Bryan, ’26, is appearing as an actor
with a Shakespearian company in Chicago.

Brian Bell, ’11, native of York, S. C, a
newspaper man of wide experience, and for
the past several years with the Associated
Press offices in New York, has been made
manager of the A. P. office at Los Angeles,
Calif. Mr. Bell had the distinction of being

New York Chapter Will
Meet on Tuesday Night

Dr. A. B. Reese, ’17, President of
Chapter, Will Be Host—Over
100 Invited

Announcement has been received from
Prof. R. C. Garth, ’19, secretary of the New
York Davidson alumni chapter, that the an-
nual fall smoker would be held next Tues-
day night, November 25, at 8 o'clock, Dr.
A. B. Reese, '17, president of the chapter,
will he host to the entire alumni body at his
home, 50 West 52nd St., New York,

An invitation has already been mailed by
Mr. Garth to over 100 Davidson men in or
near the American metropolis, and a notice
has also been sent to the same alumni by the
alumni secretary at Davidson. The fall meet-
ing of this chapter is informal in nature,
while the spring affair is always a dinner.
At the former, the alumni discuss their
Alma Mater, read letters from officials and
faculty of Davidson, and offer suggestions to
the college.

With the exception of Charlotte, the larg-
est group of Davidson alumni are located in
New York. During the past six
years, there has been a great immigration

five or
to that city, and the chapter has grown in
strength and power. Some of the largest
meetings held by local associations are staged
in New York annually, and the attendance
jumped from 25 men threé years ago to over
50 men last spring.

JUNIORS HOLD LEAD

(Continued from page 3)
Sophomores 35, Freshmen 19

Led by Hartsell, their center, the Sopho-
mores defeated the Freshmen Monday, 35
to 19, to keep in the running with the Juniors
in the 1930 inter-class basketball champion-
ship. The Sophomores now have won three
games and lost only one, that to the Juniors
in the first meeting between these two teams.

The second-year men started the scoring
and continued until they had three field
goals, then the Freshmen came in with five
points before the first quarter ended, 6 to 5.
Accurate shooting by Hartsell in the second
quarter helped bring the Sophs’ total to 18,
while the best the Frosh could do was to
add four points to their total, the half end-
ing 18 to 9 with the Sophomores leading.

Coming back after the intermission, the
Sophs continued to run roughshod over their
opponents, increasing their sum to 29 as the
Frosh scored four more points to make their
total 13. The Freshmen came back in the

the first Associated Press writer to have a
“by-line” over an article from this news-

Odds and Ends

Davidson alumni should keep in mind that
commencement, 1931, starts on May 31 and
concludes on June 3, and that the following
classes will have reunions: 1930, 1913, 1912,
1911, 1910, 1906, 1894, 1893, 1892, 1891, 1881,
1876. With Home-Coming over, work has
already started toward getting a large rep-
resentation from all of the above classes at
Davidson next spring.

Within a week's time, the alumni secretary
received letters from alumni located in Scot-
land, Mexico, and the Philippine Islands.
Within a period of four days last spring he
received letters from alumni in Africa, Ger-
many and Korea, This fall other letters have
from Davidson men in Roumania,
Greece, China, and Japan.

come

In connection with the above, it can be
stated that Davidson alumni are located in
41 different states, the District of Columbia,
and besides the countries mentioned in the
above paragraph, in Brazil, Canada, Cuba,
Hawaii, Turkey, Syria, British West Indies,
Finland, India, and Egypt. This is a total
of 20 countries or posessions.

Wanted: To know when the term “Wild-
cats” was first applied to Davidson College
football teams, and how the nickname started.
Several requests for this information have
heen received. If you know the circumstances,
please write Ernest Miltons Alumni Secre-
tary, Davidson, N. C.

The November issue of ‘School and So-
ciety” contains an article entitled, “Educa-
tional Research and Statistics.” This article
is a survey of the “Who's Who of America,”
1928-1929 edition, and reveals that 16,433 of
the 28,805 hiographies were of men who
received the bachelor of arts degrees from
506 different colleges and universities of
America. Davidson College ranks 72nd in
the 506, for 50 of her graduates are in
“Who's Who" of that edition. Davidson
ranks 29th in the percentage of her living
alumni in “Who's Who.” That percentage
is 2.16.

Four Davidson alumni are staying in the
Phi Beta Pi, medical fraternity, house at
the University of Virginia. They are C. il
Albright, ’29, C. H. Mauzy, ’29, W. R. Hill,
30, and C. C. Orr, Jr., ’30.

final to hold their own with the

Sophs, cach team scoring six points.

stanza

Hartsell continued to run wild in scoring,

Four Alumni Meetings Planned

For Cities
Class of 1876 Will Hold

Commencement Reunion
Five Members of Graduating Class
of Fifty-Five Years Ago Are
Now Living

One of the most inspiring parts of the
1926 commencement program was to see
three members of the class of 1876 sitting on
the platform during many of the exercises.
These three had returned for the fiftieth an-
niversary of their graduation, and at that
time seven members of the class were liv-
ing. Those three were Rev. A. M. Fraser,
D.D., Staunton, Va.; Hon. W. F. Carter,
Mt. Airy, and Dr. E. M. Summerell, China
Grove. ‘

Since 1926 two of the sevén survivors have
been claimed by death, leaving’ five that are
now still. living. At the ’26 reunion a reso-
lution was passed by the trio to hold an-
other assembly at commencement of 1931,
to celebrate their fifty-fifth anniversary, and
towards that end, Dr. Fraser has already
started working.

Last month he sent out a lengthy letter
to the other four of his classmates, giving
information to each about the other, and re-
minded them of the resolution made four
and a half years ago. Dr. Fraser was desig-
nated by the three to direct the 1931  re-
union, and to make efforts to get them to
Davidson. He intends to follow this with
other letters, and recently wrote the alumni
secretary that two replies had already been
received.

The five men of 1876 now living are the
three mentioned and B. F. Watkins, Phila-
delphia, Pa., and Duncan Rose, Fayetteville.

Montreal, Que—(IP)—A marble foun-
tain, symbolic of the friendship of the United
States for Canada, is to be unveiled on the
campus of McGill University here Saturday,
November 1, with elaborate ceremonies,

The fountain, designed by Gertrude Van-
derbilt Whitney, is the gift of a committee
of good-will composed of about 100 prom-
inent citizens of the United States, including
many college presidents, business men, writ-
ers, and ay and navy officers.

Miss Elltn Ballon, a McGill graduate now
living in New York City, originated the idea
of the gift. She is the organizer of the
United States Committee of Good-Will in
Canada.

In Three States

Davidson Men in Atlanta, Chatta-
nooga, Nashville, and Louisville to
Assemble on Successive Eve-
nings

IN DECEMBER

Largest Group Located in Atlanta—
Over 85 in or Near That City

Efforts eare being made by the alumni
secretary to arrange a series of four alumni
meetings in Atlanta, Chattanooga, Nashville
and Louisville. The first of these would be
in Atlanta on December 1, and on successive
nights alumni in the other cities mentioned
would gather together in the order named.
Acceptances of dates have already been re-
ceived from Chattanooga and Nashville,
though the officers of Atlanta and Louisville
have not yet replied.

Two representatives would attend the din-
ner-meetings and speak on behalf of the col-
lege. The alumni secretary would be accom-
panied by a member of the faculty and ad-
ministration, the choice of the latter yet to
be made. This is in keeping with the recom-
mendation of the Alumni Council that a fac-
ulty member or executive officer attend all
local alumni meetings.

The largest body of alumni would be in
Atlanta. There are over 85 Davidson men
in Atlanta, Decatur, or other nearby towns
who would be able to attend the chapter
meeting. In Chattanooga and Nashville there
are about 30 alumni, and in Louisville the
number is slightly over 25. Meetings have
previously been held in Atlanta and Louis-
ville, but this would be the first occasion
when the Davidson men in Chattnooga and
Nashville assembled together.

Births

Mr. W. T. Rankin, ’20, and Mrs. Rankin,
ot Gastonia, announce the birth of a son,
Wiley Theodore, III, on October 7.

Mr. Charles W. McCrary, ’24, and Mrs.
McCrary, of Asheboro, announce the birth
of a daughter, on November 9.

News was recently received of the birth
of a daughter, Penelope Jane, to Mr. Frank
C. Kugler, ’26, and Mrs. Kugler, of High
Point.

piling up 16 points for high honors. He now
gathering agency.: leads all others in that department of the
——_—- game. McLean, of the Freshman team, count- UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY i
Friends will regret to learn of the deaths | ed eight times to come in second in scoring, RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
of J. E. Reid, of Rock Hill, S. C., father | while Evans, his teammates, and Boucher, of : ‘ BReeles
of J. E. Reid, Jr., ’26, and of R. D. Bain, | the winners, ranked next with seven points Founded ei, Jomntly. owner by te Synods of Virginia, North
of Burlington, father of W. E. Bain, ’27. | each. arolina, est Virginia, Appalachia
IS | ne .
The oldest and largest Southern Presbyterian Seminary
HANES PROVIDES REAL UNDERWEAR Both sound in the faith, and alert for new methods.
For Catalogue and information, address
LUXURY AND SERVICE AT LOW COST Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr, D.D,, President.
a ,
When you button up in HANES, you button out all the underwear es
grief you’ve ever known. HANES always fits you—never bunches or ea =a
binds. The reinforced cuffs don’t pull off—buttons stay! The materials are
soft, long-lived.
HANES is a man’s underwear. Dungarees couldn’t ask for more ; . Ps
shpacbline company, yet smarter or more up-to-date underwear isn’t Printing and Engraving
made. .
Go take a look at the Gold Label Elastic-knit Lightweight Union Suit. of
It’s really luxurious and, as in all HANES garments from light to extra- i w
heavy, the hanespun cotton is knitted and cut to careful measurements of Every Description
both trunk and chest.
If you wear summer weights all year round, be sure to see the pleas-
ing styles, rich materials and many special features in HANES Athletics J. A. CANNON
and HANES Shirts and Shorts. 311 Watts
ss ies
STANDARD PRINTING CO.
Garland Court Charlotte, N. C.
t i
Le) Li
ie
pis bec
