2

THE DAVIDSONIAN,

SEPTEMBER 25, 1930

The Dabidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

| |

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year, Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina. he

od

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

}: WILSON McCUTCHAN.................... Editor-in-Chief
» A. CANNON 2.0 00220.2.2.-..--..--..--- Business Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
E. C. DWELLE, JR _...-.----.-Managing Editor
W. S. LEA. GUivcucks cobestuiessatenthous Managing Editor
DAO UM EMELLNG HC cccnbduusagcasconscucsacueae Managing Editor
W. H. MATTHEWS.. : .---.Sports Editor
V. M, BELL..... ature Editor
NORMAN RAIES_-- ature Editor
A. R. JACKSON ....Review Editor
P, R. ALDERMAN .-Associate Editor
tf B. BLACK- -Associate Editor
V. C, RAGIN... ..-.......-Associate Editor

_ BUSINESS STAFF
P, M. CONWRY¥....... ..-.----Assistant
Te BANU RistaccecacccsnocysctAseistant

Business Manager
Business Manager

. L. MEBANE ..-- Peuawuses
ici MONRO Wibsususcenbobostcscnsan ts

.-Solicitor
..-Solicitor

A. i z

J. B. STEVENS. ._.-._.._.___-.__Assistant Business Manager
Ay. Gi eMONTGOMBPRY coco sso ecscees Subscription Manager
Bich oO DROW Nesivdssluncdacones cossuccdes cuoclesaasstROOliGItOr
RiGAVV i GMAUGaS inks pemewasdaldcdstacdueducskeu gucccaneceeMOliCltee
ny Mic IMAINMONG cis suucdisauaves Boaee ...-Solicitor
é

W

REPORTERS’ CLUB

S. S. WILEY SP eauaiys @, ...President
D. G, STEPHENSON__-- easued .-Vice-President
A. H. WHITEHEAD See : Secretary-Treasurer

R. H. ALDERMAN J. BROWN

J. G. BERRY G. BE. BAILEY

A. R. BIRD Hf BOYD

N. B. DICKS J. G, DUNKLIN

kK. O. GUERRANT W. T. HANCOCK

J. E. LAKE R. L. MeCALLIE

vy C. MATTHEWS Cc. F. MYERS

Vo oF MULTISS H, F. NICHOLS

G, P, PARDINGTON Ss. 2. PRESTON

Cc. W. F. SPENCER B. B. SUGG

B. B. TAYLOR W. B. WARD

J. R. SMITH D, D. McBRYDE

SEPTEMBER 25, 1930

“A_ pessimist is one who makes difficulties
of his opportunities and an optimist is one who
makes opportunities of his difficulties.”

Vice Admiral Mansell, RL N,

SUGGESTIONS

Freshmen could be a little quicker in baring their
heads when “Oh Davidson!” is played at football
games. Faculty members and upperclassmen never
hesitate to do this, even if it is raining.

At the cost of repetition a word is again spoken
for the grass, especially that directly ‘north of
Chambers.

Chapel services should not be substituted for
reading periods. Let the newspapers and letters go
until afterwards. )

Davidson men could be a little more considerate
of their feminine guests on the campus. Put your-
self in the place of the man who jis fortunately ac-
companied,

Kro-Flite “seconds” are not the only “bargain
price” commodity in the world. Yet, the same ma-
terials are used in their manufacture as are found
in the “firsts.” Just a question of finished product!

Emerson had not heard of Bolshevism and Com-
munism, as they are known today at least, when
he wrote his much-quoted statement about “a
foolish consistency.”

WORDS OF WARNING

Among students’ topics for the day, the
new absence rules and regulations are play-
ing an important part. Satisfaction is uni-
versally expressed, and in its wake we desire
to offer a little advice, whether it be heeded
or not,

When a man’s grade was diminished on
account of an excessive number of “cuts” he
was consciously aware of the fact. Within
one semester he was able to clearly see the
effect which he brought down upon himself.
failing to pass a subject, he knew the rea-
son, and there was no justification for his
failure to rectify this trouble the next term.

Many men, particularly those in the two

_ lower clases, pay little attention to their
number of semester hours. They have a
vague idea that if they take the required
number of subjects each year they should
encounter no difficulty upon graduation.
Hours of credit are as important as grades,
In many ways more so, and there can be no
re-examination for an hour that is lost be-
cause of sixteen absences, Each man must
guard his own record for his own benefit.

Because grades are capable of erasing ab-
sences to some degree there will be studeuts
who will rely on their self-felt ability to
make “A’s,.” It is a recognized fact that
either an excused or an unexcused absence
means that one has missed either class work
or a-lecturé. If it were possible for the stu-
dent to learn his work without attending
classes there would be no need for them. A
small minority of Phi Beta Kappa men have
been irregular in attendance, This clause in
the new regulations is there to enable a
good student to remove a possible blemish
from his record, rot to grant him an indefi-
nite period of leave.

-

FRATERNITY BIDS

Tomorrow, approximately three-eighths
of the Freshman class will be asked to join
the ten national fraternities on the campus.
Fraternity influences go far in moulding a
man’s life, both in college and in after life.
Therefore the one who receives a bid should
consider seriously all angles of the situation
before accepting any invitation. It is of
great importance that the new man be con-

| genial with the members of the chapter he

is considering, and that his ideas and ideals
aré in harmony with those ofthe fraternity.
Another thing to be seriously considered is
whether he can conveniently bear the finan-
cial obligations which will be incurred in his
connection with the fraternity. No chapter
wants a man to accept its bid unless he is
financially able to do so. ~

In the event a man receives two or more
bids his choice between them should rest on
several things. Although the character and
standing of the national organization are
very important in the selection, the most
important factor is the character of the local
chapter. A man’s fraternity life is composed
principally of his four years on the campus,
so his decision should rest mainly on his like
or dislike of the members of the local group.
freshmen are naturally influenced in their
choice by friends and relatives at home.
These are the people with whom he will as-
sociate in after life, so their advice should
be given some consideration,

Some Freshmen have the idea that they
should accept any bid received, regardless of
whether they like the men or not. Many
men in the past have done this, only to re-
gret it later. A student is open for a bid at
any time during his stay at Davidson, pro-
vided he passes the required three majors.
In case a Freshman does not receive an in-
vitation from the fraternity he» prefers, he
will do well to decline a bid from one which
he does not especially like, and wait for one
from the fraternity of his choice.

It might be well to note that five-eighths
of the men in the student body are not fra-
ternity men. A man should not feel bad be-
cause he does not receive a bid to a frater-
nity, The probable reason is that he has not
been recommended by some member of the
fraternity at home.

IXvery man who is expecting to join a fra-
ternity should realize before accepting the
bid that he is to be very closely associated
with the men making up the group; that
these students are to be his closest friends
for the next four years; that the formation
of his character during his college life de-
pends to a large extent on these men,

D. G. Martin.

THE NEW LIBRARY

There have been few programs under-
taken by the Y. M. C. A. which appeal more
to us than the scheme for a boy’s library.
It should undoubtedly benefit those whom it
is intended, and it gives every man on the
campus an opportunity to take a direct part
in “Y¥" work.

Some of the more curious may inquire,
now that they list themselves among the in-
telligentsia, what good can be found in
“Tom Swift,” “The Rover Boys,” and other
such series. On first consideration it is ac-
knowledged that, because they appeal to the
boyish mind, they keep that same mind from
wandering where it should not.

Of still greater importance, though, is the
mere habit of reading which these books
promote, An adventurous series eventually
becomes. hackneyed. Its value lies in the fact
that each book is:more or less similar, and,
because he has learned to read, the reader
will want something better and different.
His taste for books follows a process of
evolution,

In a short time Zane Grey and Booth Tar-
kington will be abandoned for Scott, Cooper,
Hugo, and others. Books are probably the
greatest requisite in selfseducation. It stands
unquestioned that they must be good ones,
but those of a recreational type are essen-
tial to the desire for others. No book can be
choked down anyone’s throat with appre-
ciable success.

Contributions to this cause need have no
fear that their gifts will be discarded or
misplaced. An efficient system has been
worked out to prevent the loss or abuse ‘of
books. Because the patrons of this library
remove the books of their own volition, and
expressly due to their yearning for some-
thing to read, they will return them to get
others if for no other reason. It is a sane
proposition,

A POEM
Seniors were born for great things,
Juniors were born for small;
* But no one has ever discovered, s
Why Sophs were born at all.

|

What Do You Know
About?

Coast to Coast in Reverse.
Junking the Old Cars.

The Lindbergh Beacon.
Bicycle Staging a Comeback,
Long Distance Gassing.

One of the most unique advertising schemes at-
tempted by at national corporation was recently
completed by the Texas Company to advertise
their new tubricating oil. Two men drove a Ford
from New York to Los Angeles and back again,
using nothing but the reverse gear the entire dis-
tance.

The car used was a stock model, having head-
lights placed on the back for night driving. Offi-
cials of the company in. their newspaper ads
pointed out the great strain on a car when it is
run so far in reverse, and thereby hope to so im-
press the public with the quality of their oil which
was all that kept the car from falling to pieces
before the end of the trip, according to the drivers,

“I have been called a menace — in a humor-
ous way, of course.”—Rudy Vallee.

While speaking of Fords, it is proper to mention
that several of the larger motor corporations have
set up systems whereby they take old used cars
off the hands-of their dealers and junk them, turn-
ing (all the parts to some other use. Following
Chrysler's lead in the matter; General Motors and
Ford have followed suit, and now wreck old cars
that their dealers have taken in on trades.

By doing this, the motor magnates hope to stim~-
ulate the sale of new cars by taking old ones off
the roads, and to help out their dealers who are
forced to take Josses on a number of worn out
automobiles they are forced to accept on trade-ins,

Evidently the new plan hasn't reached all parts
of the country. We have seen any number of old
wrecks that should have received their well earned
rest some months back, but which their owners
have been forcing to carry on far past retirement
age.

“Some people are too busy to be unemployed.”
—Henry Ford.

The largest airplane beacon in the world was re-
recently put the Palmolive
building in Chicagoy This light, which throws a
beam of 2,000,000,000 candlepower, was presented
in honor of Col. Charles A. Lindbergh and_ his
trans-atlantic flight by the late Charles A. Sperry,
inventor of the gyroscope.

into operation atop

To give some idea of the power of the beam
thrown, it is easily vistble 300 miles away, and
aviators 600 miles from Chicago can be guided by
the beacon. Astronomers state that with instru-
ments similar to those now in use, the light could
be observed on the moon, having about the bril-
liance of a star of the fifth magnitude.

At a distance of 1 meter from the lens of the
light, it is 20,000 times brighter than sunlight on
the earth, and 8 billion times as bright as a full
Fifty-five
bright as a full moon.

moon, miles away,'the beacon is as

“Irishmen fight through necessity, and not
through choice.”—Patrick J. Hurley, Secretary of
War.

According to manufacturers, the popularity . of
the bicycle is rapidly increasing, and their sale is
greater than at any time in the last twenty years.
The automobile first began affecting the bicycies
in 1910 when it became a popular priced means of
transportation. At no time since then has the bike
been anything but a child’s toy.

Now, however, the laboring man is beginning to
see the advantages of two-wheeled transportation,
the low cost, lack of parking worries and neg-
ligible upkeep being points in its favor with some.

“A burglar is a man who feels he isn’t as
rich as he ought to be—’Struthers Burt.

Natural gas is rapidly becoming the most widely
used of all fuels, and with the rapid increase in the
number of cities now being served by this gas, it
should soon force its way to the top in the list of
fuels. Coming into use only recently, its growth
in popularity: has been as rapid as it has been
steady. .

Only recently have attempts been made to trans-
port it long distances. Recently a 22 inch pipe line
has been completed from gas fields in northern
Louisiana to Birmingham and Atlanta, providing
natural gas for those two cities, and about ten
others along the route of ‘the line. This is the long-
est pipe line now in use.

There is under construction at the present
time a 22 inch line which will carry gas from
northern Texas to Chicago, a distance of over a
thousand miles. When completed. this line will
occupy the position of longest in the world. Fre-
quent booster pumps will maintain pressure in the
line and in the city mains of Chicago.

|

MBA”
fe »)

. VEREEN
. BELL

This is a pre-showing of the great story that is
to come to this publication; in fact, it is not so
“pre” at all because this, eighth wonder of the
world starts in this very issue—I started to name
it “If Morning Comes” by Dawn,. but recovered.
This is the story of a man and his purp. The dog’s
name is Moiety because he is so small. The man’s
nickname is Fend because he used to peel pota-
toes for a living. The name of the story is “Fend
and Moiety.” Now on with the story. We're off:

Ed’s Note: You said it.

FEND AND MOIETY
or
Hamlet (Small Ham)

It is a cold night. The wind is whistling “Keep
the home fires burning” at a slight off-key. The
snow is wery, wery, deep and icicles are hanging
from every garden gate and green gable. An un-
interested observer, casually taking in he scene,
might even go so far as to say it was winter. We
go up and look into a window that is shining
through the blizzard. By a roaring fire sits a man
with a book in his hand. Between his toes he holds
another book. He is a Superman, or One Who
Knows. He is reading both books at the same time.
Most people can't do that. Right this minute he is
planning a Great Adventure I'll betcha. He is
probably going to dig to the center of the earth
to-morrow and is reading up on it.

On the floor is a small! dog, This is APoiRty.
M@iety is a very smart dog. He is also a very quiet
dog. Almost tacticurn. He ‘very seldom says any-
thing. An occasional “woof” and that is all. Right
now he is not saying anything. But you can de-

pend on Fend to break a silence:

Moiety, we are leaving for Mars tomorrow on
our skyrocket that we had left from last July the
Fourth.”

Moiety makes no sign that he has heard except
to give a quick nod and expectorate into the roar-
ing fire. Care-free scooter, eh?

“Yes,” said Fdnd, “If our tires hold out, T ex-
pect to be in the upper strata by noon tomorrow.
And when we get to Mars we shall see if we shall
see what we see.”

The dog now responded: “Woof.”

“Ah, I knew you'd like that. Well, let’s go to bed
and get some sleep before our departure on the
morrow.” ‘

So they got up, Fend put on Tuxedo and top
hat, and they went to bed.

It is now morning. The birds are shining and the
sun is singing at the top of its voice,

Fend and Moiety are seated in the rocket. Only a
few more minutes and they will be off to search
for the Fountain Pen of Use!

The High Chief Igniter is striking the
match that will send our heroes on their journey.
Ah, it is lit; An explosion, Fend primes it once and
THEY'RE OFF!

Up, up, upity up they go.

Inside the rocket it is quite comfortable. The
travelers entertain by playing’ con-
ductor and taking up each other’s ticket. This is -
quite proper when one is making a trip to Mars.
When it is conductor’s birthday, however, one
must dash up and say “Happy birthday, Conductor”
or he will be disqualified and find wo strokes and
a vard.

Fuse

themselves

The wind was rushing by the window, but stop-
ped long enough to pass the time of day with
Fend and Moiety.

As they continued up they began to see enor-
mous birds following them. Moiety was worried
but Fend explained their presence. These birds
are known as English Hounds. They will travel
for miles and miles to eat the crisp remarks that
are thrown out and maintain their existence by
these and scraps of conversation that drift back.

About this time Fend noticed Moiety swallowing
hard as if he ate too much at one time.

“What is the matter Moiety?” he asked, anx-
iously—not expecting an answer. No one ever ex-
pects an answer from Moiety.

“Justaminuteand!'lltellyou,”
very distinctly.

A took of mild surprise crossed Fend’s face. He

Was not astonished by this sentence because you
never could tell what Moiety would do next. He
had once eaten seventeen bones at one sitting.
' 'Moiety looked as if he was all right now. He
said (plainly enough), “We dogs have never been
able to talk because of the pressure on our vocal
cords on earth, But now we are high enough for
the pressure to decrease enough to relieve the
vocal cords and enable us to talk. By the way, I
overheard a good one the other day. It seems
there were two bricklayers who—”

“I've heard that one. How fast are we going
now? We ought to be near Mars before. long.”

said Moiety, not

Well, I'l! declare! Moriety can talk. Now that’s
a smart dog for you. It’s not every little dog that
can talk. Watch for Fend and Moiety next week
and learn further about their thrilling adventures !

J

— %
