6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 2, 1930

Rev. William Lingle
Back at Davidson

How Davidson’s Fu-
ture Opponents Played
Last Saturday

Citadel 13; ERSKINE 0.

South Carolina'22; DUKE 0.

V. P. 1. 9; Roanoke 0.

V. M. I., 12; Richmond 0.

Clemson 32; WOFFORD 0.

NORTH CAROLINA 13; Wake
Forest 7.

Has Been a Missionary in China for
Forty Years

Rev. William H. Lingle, who barely es-
|caped with his life the latter part of July
when the Chinese city, Changsha, in which
he was residing was raided and looted by
the communists, has arrived in Davidson to
spend some time with his brothers, Dr. Wal-
ter L. Lingle, president of Davidson College,
and Dr. Thos. W. Lingle, member of the
Davidson faculty.

News From Other Hills

Wellesley, Mass.—(IP)—What is to be

The 70-year-old missionary of 40 years’
experience was four times reported dead, and

the largest map in the world, to cost more
than two million dollars, is under construc-
tion here. It will measure 63 feet from east

on other occasions the report was that he
had been captured and held for ransom. Mr.
Lingle did fall into the hands of the bandits,

to west and 46 feet from north to south. | who stripped him of all his possessions, and

f left him penniless. A British boat picked him
The map was begun about five years ago, up and he was brought to safety. His cap-

and is expected tO) take 50 years more t0/ ture probably resulted through his failure to
complete. When finished it will be a perfect | leave Changstia at-the-tHire theother mis-

likeness of the country which makes up the | sionaries evacuated. He was the last one to
United States and Canada.

| depart.

A gallery, 15 feet high, will encircle the |
map, and viewed from this any section re- | Ohio State
produced on the work will appear just about | Columbus, Ohio—(TP)—If the despised
as it would if actually seen from an airplane | house fly is a dirty creature, it is not his
at a height of 12 miles. jfault but that of his surroundings, according
to Miss Marian MclIlhenny, of Dayton, Ohio,
/who earned. her master of science degree at

Urbana es |

Urbana, Ohio—(IP)—Not more than 24;
undergraduates were expected to register at |
Urbana University when it opens here this
fall. The university boasts the smallest stu- |
dent body of any higher educational insti- |
tution in the United States. |

The size of the student body was swelled
somewhat by the institution of a new course
in music.

|
California |
Berkeley, Calif—(IP)—Bacteria believed
to be millions of years old have been found |
to be alive and to be able to multiply rap- |
idly, it was reported here by Dr. C. P.|
Lipman, of the University of California, who |
spoke before the National Academy of Sci- |
ences, in convention here.
Professor Lipman found the creatures in
Pennsylvania hard coal believed to be 200,-
000,000 years old.

Antioch |

Yellow Springs, Ohio—(IP)—Accident |
instead of aptitude is shaping the careers of |
far too many college students, according to
Dr. Arthur E. Morgan, president of Antioch |
College here.

“In practical administration of our col- |
legse,” he said recently, “far too little atten- |
tion is paid to the nature and significance of
student interests. They are commonly looked |
upon as being determined by nature, like the |
color of the eyes.” |

Columbia
New York—(IP)—Milton H. Thomas has
announced plans for an endowment fund of |

$100,000 to provide important additions to |

the Columbian collection of books, manu- |

scripts, maps and other memorabilia now in|
the possession of Columbia University, and |
to make these available to students, alumni |
and scholars in all parts of the world.

Ohio State University here by making a

| study of the fly.

It was when the pretty co-ed began to take
up entomology here that she stopped swat-
ting house flies, and began to eye them
through microscopes. During the past year
she studied the individual habits of some
3,018 of the “musca domestica,” and not once
did she find that failed to make
honest attempt to keep himself clean.

one an

The cleaning process is accomplished by
tubbing the body vigorously with the legs,
the co-ed reports.

Oberlin

Cleveland, Ohio—(IP)—R. W. Harold
Mark, son of Dr. Robert Wilson Mark, pas-
tor of Old Stone Church here, is only a
Junior at Oberlin College, but he didn’t hesi-
tate the other Sunday to climb into his dad’s
pulpit, on the Public Square here, and preach
a straight-from-the-shoulder sermon.

“No man can be properly adjusted in life,”
preached Junior Mark, “until his spiritual
nature becomes as important as his intel-
lectual and physical natures.”

Young Mark contemplates entering the
ministry.

A candidate ‘for the Nebraska State Leg-
islature this summer included in his cam-
paign expense account one item of “Joshing
the Ladies.”

Notre Dame
Hamilton, N. Y.—(IP)—With Notre
Dame scheduled to stay at home once in a
while in its new stadium, it appears that
Colgate University’s football squad will be
leading contender for travelling honors this
year,

In all the Maroon team will travel 3,800

| miles to play eight games. Distant opponents
Cleveland, Ohio—(1P)—A new system of who will be met on their own fields by Col-

instruction, whereby one teacher will be able gate include Michigan State, Brown Uni-

to handle a class of as many as 250 pupils, | versity, Penn State and Columbia.

is to be tried out in one local high school |

this fall, and if the experiment Proves a suc- | Florida

cess, it will be used in all public schools | Gainesvile, Fla. (IP)—The University of

here. : | Florida will dedicate its new, stadium, seat-
The new system involves the broadcasting | ing 50,000, on November 8, in a game with

of lectures by wired radio to various rooms | the University of Alabama.

in the school. |

=e The stadium is now nearing completion.
Lehigh | Heretofore the university has been able to
Bethlehem, Pa.—(IP)—After a careful | provide seats for only about 15,000 specta-
study, Dean Max McConn, of Lehigh Uni- | tors.
versity, has found that only one in eight of | ei
the lower half scholastically at high school |
manages to complete his college course. |
The dean believes that admission to col-
lege should be as highly selective as the cir-
cumstances of each particular institution will
permit.

TM

HONORARY FRATERNITY SCHEDULE oases.
Hours MONDAY | TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY
P. M. Glee Eu and Glee Sigma Pi Glee
7 :00 Club Phi Lit. Club | Sigma Club
“D” Club . Societies Band P.
Mu Beta Gourtor Scabbard Alpha Phi Omega Phi
8:00 Psi Control and Blade Epsilon Alpha
| Omicron Gamma Delta
9 :00 Delta Sigma Pi |
Kappa Epsilon Kappa |
Alternate Weeks
Glee Eu and Glee Band
7 :00 Club 7 Phi Lit. Club Practice LE Re G,
Societies ; ee
ys Court of Biology Delta Phi Eta Sigma
8:00 Control Club Alpha Phi
Sigma Sigma Ministerial
9 :00 Delta Psi Upsilon Band
|

College Calendar

Friday, Oct. 3—Pep meeting for entire
student body in Shearer Hall at 7 p. m.

Sunday, Oct. 5—Vesper services in Cham-
bers auditorium at 6 p. m. Dr. Ben
Lacy of Richmond, speaker. Sunday
night church will be merged with this
service,

Sunday night from 8:30 till 10, open
house for students at faculty homes.
Monday, October 6—Dr. Ben Lacy will
speak in Chambers auditorium at 7:30

p. m.

Tuesday, October 7—Dr. Ben Lacy will
speak in Chambers auditorium at 7:30
p. m.

Wednesday, October 8—Smoker for
group of Freshmen at 9 p. m., in Social
Center. Twenty-five Freshmen are espe-
cially invited each si ding Wed
day night.

Thursday, October 9—The annual meeting
of the Western North Carolina District
of the American Red Cross Society will
be held here, beginning at 10 a. m. and
continuing till 3 p. m. Luncheon will be
served delegates in the Banquet Hall at
noon.

Interviews will be held with Dr. Lacy
throughout the days Monday and Tues-
day.

Debreczin, Hungary—(IP)—A resolution
was recently adopted by the local university
students urging the national government to
provide more severe punishments for gov-
ernment officials of all categories who ac-
cept bribes or who defraud the government
in any way.

Washington, D. C.—(1IP)—Advancement

Dr. F. W. Reeves, of the University of
purpose of a new position which has been
created within the Office of Education in
the United States Department of the In-
terior. Secretary Wilbur has appointed to
this position Dr. Ambrose Caliver, the first
negro in the United States to receive the
degree of Ph.D. in the field of education.

Dr. Caliver, former dean of Fisk Uni-
versity in Nashville, is a native of Virginia,
and a graduate of Knoxville College and the
University of Wisconsin.

The highest temperature during the past
summer season was recorded in Death Val-
ley, Eastern California, where the thermome-

’ i
ter registered 130 degrees one day.

The following countries have a lower per
cent of illiteracy than the United States—
Japan, New Zealand, Germany, Denmark;
Norway, Sweden, Scotland, Netherlands,
| Ireland, Switzerland, England, Canada, and
| Wales.

Freshmen women at the New Jersey State
College for Women last year voted that they
prefer marriage to a career.

AUUAVUIESUUAUYUURNLEALATUL ASA HAUTE TETAS RASA e

WEEK-END TRIPS

Can be made economically in a well equipped

U-Drive-It Ford from—
HENDERSON’S FILLING STATION

TAQ TEATATUANE AAAI HGQUUUUAGNENLINE

HA EULA

Minnesota #)

Minneapolis, Minn.—(IP)—Tests made
by students. of the University of Minnesota
in co-operation with Radio Station KSTP
have proved that students can do their best
studying when listening to jazz music on
the radio.

Less distraction was found to prevail when
the loud speakers were vibrating than when
absolute silence reigned in the student's
room,

“DRUGS”

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

Gold several centuries old is possessed by

ca)

Make Our Store Your Store
Students’ Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO.,, Inc.

“SODA”

“SUNDRIES”

a strange band of gypsies in Rumania,

Waring’s Pennsylvanians
Originated at Michigan U.

Famous Orchestra Organized Into
Present Personnel Through Fra-
ternities at Ann Arbor

Ann Arbor, Mich.—(1IP)—Waring’s Penn-
sylvanians got their start at a university,
and it wasn’t Pennsylvania, either.

It came to light here just recently that
the famous jazz orchestra was so broke back
in 1921 that the members decided to bust
up, and would have done so, had not Fred
Waring been invited to come up and play at
the University of Michigan.

Here’s how it happened :

One of the boys went to Ann Arbor,
where a friend told him that the University
of Michigan. committee was looking for a
small band to play in an old gym for the
overflow crowd at the annual Jay Hop. The
committee already had two famous bands
for the main dance. The orchestra member
telegraphed to Fred; Fred wired the com-
mittee and the band assembled.

“That was the greatest night ever,’ Fred
tells the story himself. ‘We stole the crowd
right away from under the Big Names. All
our success started in ,that old gym. And
we didn't even have hotel money. A frater-
nity put us up on condition that we play free
for their house party the next night.”

From there the band went to a Detroit
theater and radio station and after one night
they got an eight-week stage contract.
They've beén going ever since.

REPORTS ON 1930 GRADS

New String Quartet
Is Being Organized

A string quartet has been organized and
is gradually getting into form. Last year
the violin quartet underwent quite a success-
ful season. Programs were broadcast over
WBT every Sunday afternoon for the last
few weeks of school, besides other engage-
ments. This is an entirely new combination.
The instruments available and their players
are as follows: First and second violin, Bob
Orr and Horace Erwin; viola, Dillon, violin-
cello, Bob Lynn. The violin quartet may also
be continued. If so, the players besides Bob
Orr and Horace Erwin will be Don Leper
and Charles Reed.

Music by the violin quartet. is supposed
to be the most perfect that can be obtained.
This is because of the very high and low
notes that can be obtained from the violin.
Much of the original classical music was
written for the violin quartet.

New music has been purchased and prac-
tices are being held regularly—about twice
a week. Most of the music will, of course,
be classical, but some light and more pop-
ular music will be given, however.

No engagements have been made up to
this time. There may be some programs
broadcast later on. The quartet will prob-
ably play at vespers and chapel and may
be used on Y. M. C, fA. deputations.

Booth Tarkington, well-known American
novelist, is believed to have been cured of
his partial blindness.

MICE AND MEN

(Continued from page 4) tne Rain often
Thompson, Jr., both at Badin, and C. A. upsets the
Ritchie, at Statesville. “best laid

plans of

Besides Brown and Lafferty, those at Da- mice and
vidson art T. W. Brohard, Jr., and W. H. men.’ It
R. Pritchett, secretary of the “Y,” and A. keeps down
H. Whittle, who is studying and assisting the atten-
Jetton, pursuing master of arts courses; Carl danceof

in physical education.

Supplementary information can be ob-
tained about this class in the future through
items in the “Alumni Personals” column,
for as others are located, their weherabouts
and what they are doing will be passed

Washes away
expected profits. Causes money
loss.

But there’s a “rainbow” after
the rain and maybe, a “pot of

gold” at the end of it for you.

That is, if you'll let us plan your
Rain Insurance protection. It
sheds losses from rain like a
duck’s back sheds water.

—~

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
Insurance Department

McAlister Carson ('13), Manager
M. B. Speir ('24)

along.

Dr. F. W. Reeves, of the University of
Chicago, predicts that half the independent
arts colleges now in existence will go out
of existence in 50 years because the
dwindling interest in the degree of bachelor
of arts.

of

Davidson Theatre

Monday and Tuesday, October 6, 7
“Animal Crackers”
with
THE FOUR MARX BROTHERS
Wednesday, October 8
“The Spoilers” j
with
GARY COOPER
Thursday and Friday, October 9, 10
“Follow Thru”
with
NANCY CARROLL
Saturday, October 11

“Last of the Lone Wolf”
BERT LYTELL

