2

THE DAVIDSONIAN,

DECEMBER 4, 1930

Che Dabidsontan

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED. BY THE CLASS OF 1915
SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

. WILSON McCUTCHAN..............-..... Editor-in-Chief
} Ay ‘CANNON? casccssudisecc icc cs lces ;----Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

E. C. DWELLE, JR Managing Editor
W. S, LEA. ---------Managing Editor
DitGiwMARTINGs Soccsccsceeucec sels celocaee Managing Editor
W. (B. MATTHE WSiescc concn clocsccsccsesccccess Sports Editor
V. M. BELL. ---Feature Editor
NORMAN RAIES...... -Feature Editor
A. R. JACKSON .--Review Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN, -Associate Editor
yA BLACK....-. Associate Editor
MOMRAGINGSuS dul ebactusesesboscecescusasce Associate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
P.M. C .---Assistant Business Manager
A. p BAKER..--.... .-Assistant Business Manager
J. B. STEVENS. -- --Assistant Business Manager
A. G. MONTGOMERY...---.-..------- Subscription Manager
Py Bi BROW Niwectecesdbccisdsccscds cc succcccccuccsnede Solicitor
R. W. FALLS Solicitor
A. M. MANSON Solicitor
A. L. MEBANF. ...- Solicitor
W. R. Solicitor
REPORTERS’ CLUB
8, 8) WIG srstudvusbevsauuupesbcdsducvuctesusdsusuas President
D. G. STEPHENSON Vice-President
A. A SWHITBHBA Divescs cocausedcdccuen Secretary-Treasurer
R. H. ALDERMAN J. M. BRO
J. G. BERRY G. E. BAILEY
A. R. BIRD J. E. BOYD
N. B. DICKS J. G. DUNKLIN
E, O. GUERRANT W. T. HANCOCK
. E. LAKE R. L. McCALLIE
. C. MATTHEWS Cc. F. MYERS
V. F, MULLISS H. F. NICHOLS
G. P. PARDINGTON S. P. PRESTON
Cc. W. F. SPENCER B. B. SUGG
B. B. TAYLOR W. B. WARD
J. R. SMITH D. D. McBRYDE
DECEMBER 4, 1930 wy

Dime!

One looks back with a tolerant smile to those
days (1848), days when a formula seemed as
powerful as a siege gun, when the ballot seemed
by itself a guarantee of order and justice in
human affairs.

Lewis Mumford.

SUGGESTIONS
Language students should remember the Tower
of Babel when wondering the why and wherefore
of different tongues.

Will Rogers gave Wrigley’s chewing gum a nice
little bit of free advertising the other day. No
doubt the Beechnut people will invite him to visit
with them.

It is hard for many Seniors to realize that they
have witnessed their last ‘intercollegiate football
game as undergraduates. Each year passes more
quickly than the one before it,, and it does not
necessarily require an octogenarian to make the
statement truthfully.

One good result, at least, of the universal de-
pression is the renewal of football activities be-
tween the Navy and the Army. Perhaps one of the
most colorful of American classics will be revived
through misfortune. : : .

Ice gathers quickly around the fountain pre-
sented by the class of '25. Cool drinks seem to be
the order of the day.

We believe that more alumni have returned for
various events this fall than ever before.

THE OUTSIDE INFLUENCE OF THE
Y..M.C. A.

We have only to consider the work ‘which the
Davidson College Y..M. C. A. is doing to find
out that it is one of the finest’ influences in
the school. Much of their work is personal,
and escapes the atention of the average student.
Their work, nevertheless, goes on every day.
and in a very real way the Y. M. C. A. influ-
ences the lives of many people.

One of the finest tasks which the “Y” has
undertaken is the Barium Springs Fund Cam-
paign. In this campaign they hope to raise one
thousand dollars from the student body which
will be sent to Barium Springs Orphanage.
This school is situated in the central part of
the State, between Mooresville and Statesville,
and is a school for boys and girls, who, if it
were not for Barium Springs, perhaps would
have’ no chance to attend school at all.

In this campaign, the Y. M. C. A. deserves
the support of every Davidson man. The suc-
cess of the campaign depends upon this, and
for this reason, it is our privilege and our duty
to support it. No doubt many men will hardly
give the campaign a thought. Therefce, -we
wish to bring it to the minds of the student

body.

The question is not how much, but with
what spirit. In this campaign there is a chance
for rendering real service to people who are
in need, also a chance to co-operate with an
organization which is deserving of the co-op-
eration of every Davidson man.

The appeal is to our spirit.

!
else eRe William S. Lea.

THEY ARE USUALLY SQUARE

Off and on during the past two or three
years there have been observations current
within the student body that the daily press
was prone to overlook salient points of David-
son athletic teams. In this same issue there
appears an editorial taken-from a newspaper,
the editor of which is a non-Davidson man.

Glaring headlines on both front pages and
sports pages greeted readers after the Carolina
game. It appears to us that Davidson has been
getting a square deal all the way ‘around. As
further proof we would point to an All-State
selection recently published in an evening paper.

It is difficult for the man who has never
written an article to realize the problems con-

fronting the reporterIt makes little difference «

whether the writer is sports editor of a paper
or not; it is hard to keep from “coloring” the
report of any game. To those who persist in
doubting this statement we suggest that they
write an article for themselves and look at it
two or three weeks after it has been written.

Newspaper readers are also too ready to for-
get that the success and reputation of a sports
writer depends to a large extent on his prog-
nostications. If he ‘“‘dopes” a game right, he is
good; if he does not, he cannot reach out and
grab an alibi. Wanting a certain team to win
and believing it is going to win are too vastly
different types of thought.

Finally, any sound thinker is obliged to ad-
mit that the paper which makes a state-wide
appeal cannot afford to express its desires, if
it has any. There are hundreds of alumni of
other schools besides the sons of Davidson;
there are other student bodies. Davidson gets
its breaks along with the others.

WHY THE COLLEGE PAPER?

To begin with, this is a discussion, not a de-
fense. It is admitted, however, that the chief
reason for such a discourse is that at least half
of a college paper’s readers do not appear to

be able to distinguish between its purpose and |

that of the daily news sheet. The other half
make every distinction between the two and
are not willing to admit the advantages of any
resemblance between them.

As has been stated time and time again,
every college paper should strive to serve the
students of the institution to which it belongs.
Occasionally one finds an editor, like the one
in a large mid-western school, who defiies tra-
dition, custom, and campus sentiment in a ti-
rade of condemnation. His fate is usually cer-
tain, swift, and effective. If students fail to
reform him there are generally other interests
that will,

Few editors attempt to make their appeal
with the sensational. Tabloid sheets just ‘don't
go” in collegiate circles. There is only one
paper, which we receive regularly, that plays
to the dramatic and unusual. We are forced to
admit that the result it achieves is enviable, but
the institution it represents is noted for its ah-
horrence of intercollegiate activities. It would
seem that even with “modern youth” at the
helm the “old diners” hold sway.

A slightly larger percentage of colleges yield
to the call of the humorous, or attempted hu-
morous. Much of this is no doubt due to lack of
copy and the expected necessity of filler ma-
terial. The types of wit differ. One publica-
tion regularly devotes one full page to jokes;
others specialize in columns and exchanges.
Once in a while an unexpected result is ob-
tained. as the headline of a technical school’s
paper which read, “Agricultural Student Hold
Egg-Laying Contest.” Even the best of them
make mistakes!

Perhaps nothing is more diverse in the man-
ner with which it is treated than sports, This
can be expected, for there are few things which
present a more telling problem to the editor
than: this phase of extra-curricular activity.
The only logical solution is to attempt to give
athletics the proportional space that they claim
in the minds of the students.

Society, music, debating, and other factors
vary with individual institutions, and also with
incumbent editors. It is not a simple matter to
delegate them to their proper places.

Finally ,with all of its possibilities for unique-
ness, exactly what can the college paper hope
to accomplish? A fair example is shown by the
recent edition of the Clemson Tiger. It was

published immediately after the announcement

of Josh Cody that he had resigned as head
coach there. There was not an article on any
page of that particular edition whigh did not
contain the name of the coach. The entire paper
was a continuous plea for that man to recon-
sider his decision.

It is not for us to consider the merits of
Cody as a football coach. The important point
is that every man in Clemson wants him to stay,
nd the “voice” of the students used every
Nnit of its power to convince him of his gen-
eal popularity. The paper was willing to join
in\the fight, and it would not have done so if
it 4ad not considered its possibilities.
inally, the conclusion must be that a college

What Do You Know
About?

Do-X Flop?

Rockne as a Broker?

A Cut-Throat Merger?

The Pope Praises?

The projected trip of the Do-X, giant air craft,
to America has practically been abandoned, for
the time being at least. A series of disasters and
misfortunes occurring during the last two weeks,
have left the German craft virtually a wreck. It is
announced that it will take at least two weeks, to
complete repairs made necessary by a disastrous
fire, and by that time the weather over the At-
lantic is apt to be so bad that the trip will be im-
possible,

On the flight over the Spain from England,
engine trouble forced the craft down and made it
necessary to taxi about 100 miles on the surface of
the water. Repairs were made, however, and it

ded to Lisb
There, however, things went from bad to worse,
and two fires broke out on the vessel. One was only
a minor conflagration and produced no serious re-
sults. The second, however, almost destroyed the
German airplane, and caused it to be sent to dry-
dock for repairs.

A spark from an auxiliary motor ignited one of
the wings and an explosion of the gas tank there
demolished the left wing surface entirely. Only
heroic work by six members of the crew saved the
vessel from being completely destroyed by fire.
Had the ditacs reached the main gas tanks, the
whole plane ‘would probably have been completely
demolished.

The series of mishaps and the failure of the
vessel to successfully complete its scheduled flight
have caused a great deal of discussion as to the
advisability of so large a plane. Its likely that no
more giants of the air will be constructed for
some time at least. America will have to wait until
next spring to see the largest flying boat in the
world,

pr

“We should have a five-day week for working
men, which means for all of us.”—John J. Rascob.

Having boosted the stock of his wonder teams
to the heights of the gridiron world, Knute Rockne
of Notre Dame is now entering into the stock
market world himself, as a broker. It is reported
that he has put in a broker’s office with quota-
tion boards and all the “trimmin’s.” If he is as
successful in. that field for hmiself and for his fol-
lowers as he has been in coaching football teams,
the Rock of Notre Dame should be able to almost
single-handed put the stock market back on its
feet. That is what he has done to football, through
his own work, and that of men who learned the
gridiron game under him.

Rockne, besides being one of the foremost
coaches in the game, has branched out into other
fields with equal success. His articles in Collier’s
each week are as popular as any feature appearing
during the fall in any magazine. He has conducted

,a number of coaching schools, which have been

very successful. He is one man who certainly does
not keep all his eggs in one basket.

“The trouble with football today is not so much
overemphasis, but rather underemphasis, which
only a coach can understand.”—Coach Jim Pixlee,
of George Washington University.

One of the most powerful mergers in American
business has recently been completed, with Gillette
and Auto-Strop Razor companies combining to
form the largest safety-razor manufacturing com-
pany in the world. It is a combine which should
have little trouble in cutting out all compétition.

Gillette had been forced into a disadvantageous
position in a patent litigation over the new Gillette
and Probak blades. Probak practically held the
patents on the new style of blades used by Gillette,
and was favored to win the coming suit over these
patents. For that reason, Auto-Strop was able to
get a good deal more for its stock than it was
worth on the market.

The merger gives the new company the virtual
monopoly on supplying the shaves to the world,
and though no cuts in price are to expected, it is
believed that manufacturing costs will be pared a
great deal. |

Thomas A, Edison was recently presented a
medal from Pope. Pius XI because of his great in-
ventions. And also, more to the point, the American
inventor had presented him a gold-and-ivory dec-
orated dictating machine.

Not to disparage the gift of Edison or his in-
ventive work, but we believe he is also one of the
shrewdest men in getting his name in print in the
United States today. Although the publicity.to be
derived was certainly not at the bottom of his
gift, yet we think his press agents saw the open-
ing. The question which the “Foremost American”

publication exists for the main purpose of ex-
pressing what it believes to be the current opin-
ion of its campus life. It exposes the candles
that are being hidden under blankets.

MUSINGS 9 “%e

_,MATADOR

—— :

(Foreword: This article is reprinted in answer to
numerous requests. It appeared last yeat in “Smoke-
house Saga” in the November 21 issue of The David-
sonian and was written by the author of that column,
aided and abetted by this lowly scribe.)

OF GETTING RI OF MICE

1, Set a trap and label “Wet Paint.” Mouse will
test trap to see if paint really is wet and be caught
in trap. The mouse will be fooled, too, because the
paint wasn’t wet after all.

2: Sing “Sonny Boy” to mouse. Mouse will com-
mit hari-kari.

3. Tell mouse the joke about “that wasn’t no lady,
that was my wife.” Mouse will run amuck, be bogged
in muck, and starve to death.

4. Confine mouse’s girl friend so that she can't
keep her date with him. Mouse will become dejected
and go off to Africa to shoot lions.

5. Tell mouse about famous Wildcat spirit. Mouse
will work himself to a frenzy for ole Davidson. Throt-
tle mouse while he is frenzy with you.

6. Spray mouse with alcohol. Mouse will receive
summons from Student Council and die of humilia-
tion. ;

7. Feed mouse tripe. Mouse will become full of
tripe and attempt to-write a column. Will be squelched
by the Editor. (He’s just the tripe that would.)

8. Chop off mouse’s tail up to his neck. Will die
of exposure.

9, Run pipes from Davidson’s heating plant through
mouse’s house. Mouse will become inured to frigid
climate and go on a polar exploration tour. Will be
lost in frozen. wastes.

10. Tell mouse that the eyes of Texas are upon
him. Mouse will become self-conscious and flee. Spray
flea with Flit.

11. Tell mouse about his wonderful possibilities.
Mouse will become fired with ambition. Sweep up
ashes in dust-pan.

12. Tell mouse he is a squirrel. Mouse will eat
nuts. Mouse will think he is the nuts. Mouse will
go nuts. Confine mouse in a padded cell.

13. Tell mouse how cat killed his parents. Mouse
will rush out.to wreak vengeance. Mouse will be found
dead in the wreakage.

14. Croon “Mousie, mousie, come out of your
hole.” Fool mouse when he appears and shoot him
with a double-barrel shotgun. Remove mouse with
absorbent cotton and a medicine dropper.

15. Show mouse a Senior in his new blazer. Mouse
will become hysterical and tie himself in a knot. Bury,
while still in the aforesaid sheepshank.

16. Tie one end of stout cord around mouse’s neck
and the other end around a brick. Tease mouse until
he becomes infuriated and heaves brick. Lock the door
as mouse follows brick out.

17. Grease mouse well with Staycomb and part
in the middle with an axe.

18. Tell mouse he is a frog. Mouse will croak.
Cremate.

19. Leave school.

This new world will be a world based» on slavery,
but its slaves will. be knowledge and the machine.
—Frank A. Clement.

By no agency through which society operates can
it destroy poverty outright.—President Edgerton, of
the Manufacturers’ Association.

One must cease to believe before being able to com-
prehend either the reason or beauty of belief.—Laf-
cadio Hearn.

Flying is better for the undergraduate speeder than
motoring. If he takes foolish risks in_flying he finds
he is the chief sufferer—The Chief Constable of Ox-
ford.

With a cluster of colored petals swaying in the
breeze, one may at times bridge centuries or span the
earth—William Beebe.

If the world is ugly, let the critics remodel it so
that they may get novels as pretty as their tastes.
—Liam O'Flaherty.

’Tis written, gifts persuade
The Gods in heaven; and gold is stronger made
Than words innumerable to bend men’s ways.
—Enripides.
Blessed is that customer who at this time is weighed
by merchants and found wanting—wanting more
goods.—Foster and Catchings.

put in his questionnaire on his competitive exam-
‘ination last summer about the party lost in the

“desert algo’ gained for him many inches of press

comment. Edison, besides being a great inventor,
probably the greatest in the United States, has sur-
rounded himself with able press representatives,
possibly some of the best in the United States.
