2

THE DAVIDSONIAN,

NOVEMBER 20, 1930

The Dabidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year, Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

. WILSON
} A. CANNON

E. C. -Managing Editor
W. S. LE -Managing Editor
D. G. MA -Managing Editor
W, H. MATTHEWS. ...........2.. 2. acccedeses Sports Editor
Vv. M. BE --Feature Editor
NORMAN RAIES..._. -Feature Editor
A. R. JACKSON.--.-- ----Review Editor
PLR ADE RMAN... .-Associate Editor
. Be BLACK.......... ----Associate Editor
Ww, Oy RAGIN go on cnc cons secntaccsesussccana Associate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF :
P. Mi: GONWAY sacssscccusencce. Assistant Business Manager
A. J. BAKER_---- .-Assistant Business Manager
J. i Assistant Business Manager
A. G, ---.---Subscription Manager
Pi FP BROWN wcccicc soso cil cce cee scanebems! Solicitor
R. ---Solicitor
A. M. ‘ % ---Solicitor
A. L. MEBANE --. ---Solicitor
WR. PMORROW seven econ coco ca ccc eos ce Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB

SS) WABEY 22yeusgetetvarcsavecersoncdecsuasadiaucane President
D. G. STEPHENSON... .-Vice- President
A. Hy AWHITBHBAD. ieccscccccensccuuene Secretary-Treasurer

R. H. ALDERMAN J, M. BROWN

J. G. BERRY G. FE, BAILEY

A. R. BIRD }: FE. BOYD

N. B. DICKS . G. DUNKLIN

FE. O. GUERRANT W. T. HANCOCK

J. E. LAKE R. L. McCALLIE

ty C. MATTHEWS (olay ERS

V. Ff. MULLISS H. F. NICHOLS

G. P. PARDINGTON S. P. PRESTON

Cc. W. _F. SPENCER B. B. SUGG

B. B. TAYLOR » W. B,. WARD

J. R. SMITH D. D. McBRYDE

NOVEMBER 20, 1930

“Rude are the wills-of princes: yea,
Prevailing always, seldom crossed,
On fitful winds their moods are tossed:
’Tis best men tread the equal way.”

Euripedes.

SUGGESTIONS
Davidson stock has gone up! There is still one
more game to be played. No student in college
now has seen a victory over Wake Forest. Re-
member the Tar Heels and prepare for the Dea-
cons!

Some times alibis are indispensable. It looks like
we will have to resort to Georgia highways for
the comment on the Elizabethan Players last
week. ae

November seems to be the month for numerous
national and international collegiate conventions.
The only catch is that if one is eligible to attend
such meetings he generally does not have the time
to spare. J :

All fall the “populus Romanus” have cried for
rain; now they wish for sunshine. One does not
wonder that emperors, whom their subjects deemed
all powerful, had their troubles.

O. O. MylIntyre has been having his troubles
with his mustache. Just by way of helpful advice
we would suggest a “Probak Blade.”

Winthrop’s Johnsonian is the only seven column
exchange which finds its way to our office.

We thank the faculty for the suspension of
afternoon classes on Saturday.

A TIMELY VICTORY

Iver since Saturday there has been a
common topic on the lips of students, fac-
ulty members, and sports followers. The
Wildcats downed the Tar Heels! It is a sub-
ject which will not die, for days and weeks
to come, nor should it.

To praise the stars of the game would be
to praise every man who stepped on the
field in a red and black jersey. Individually
and as a team the players played their “big
game” of the year, As time passes possibly
five or six events will stand out from the
rest in memory. Among others will be the
thought on the seemingly interminable
length of the last quarter. Many spectators
realized as never before the difference be-
tween a stop watch and a pocket one.

We prefer to think of the entire squad
when we look back on the victory. Every
man in uniform had his role to play, and he
played it. It was a team triumph.

Neither will words of commendation to
the, student body be out of place. Not since
the autumn of 1927 has there been a pep-
meeting like the one held on Friday night.
Seldom has the morale or the entire student
body been as high. A sense of victory was in
the air. It was not to be denied.

It would be impossible to give an impres-
sion of the reaction on members of the stu-
dent body, especially Seniors. For four years
they have waited ; their desire has been real-
ized. It was a happy week-end.

No comment on this game would be com-
plete without a word for Coaches Younger

and Tilson, Once again the have justified the
confidence and responsibility imposed on
them. We congratulate them!

LOGICAL PRECAUTION

There are many people, students and oth-
ers, who will resent a recent implication
made in at least two leading dailies, that
“Davidson College has been captured by
the War Department.” In the first place, this
evident reference to the R. O. T. C. unit is
directly misleading. We know that,the de-
partment in question would never have es-
tablished such a unit here, or in any other
college or university, without the desire and
consent of college authorities. There have
been too many schools applying for R. O.
T. C. units in the past ten years for the
government to hand them out indiscrimi-
nately or by forceful compulsion.

Space does not permit a discussion on the
advantages of a training which helps to co-

ordinate mind and body. Neither can we go’

into the question of whether there will ever
be another war in which the United States
will be forced to participate. It is impossible
for a man to prophesy! Let it suffice that if
this country does engage in a major conflict
it will be for the protection of life and lib-
erty, not for the sake of a policy of de-
spicable economic imperialism. It has never
been a platform of the government to colon-
ize; it never will be.

Any man who has taken two or four years
or work in an R, O. T. C. unit will no doubt
subscribe to the following opinion; it takes
very little association with a military unit
to make a man hate war; clean manly liv-
ing is emphasized and required; disciplinary
thoroughness encourages habits which will
be of benefit throughout life; the student
learns the fundamental principles of exec-
utive administration; and most important
of all, the combat principles taught are en-
tirely for the defense; the offensive is dis-
regarded, At the outset, a christian officer
should be preferred to one who is not.

AN INTELLECTUAL RENAISSANCE

For many years it has been customary to
bring to the Davidson campus distinguished
lectures from varied fields of culture. In the
choice of speakers brought here in the past
we have been exceptionally fortunate. They
have ever been a powerful factor in the de-
velopment of the intellectual side of David-
son life,

Recently our good fortune was made
peculiarly manifest by the appearance of
Dean Gordon J. Laing of the University of
Chicago. In him we found one generously
endowed with both profound scholarship
and the ability to entertain almost any type
of mind. Seldom is a speaker accorded a
more attentive audience than was given
Dean. Laing in each of his three lectures
here. The student body clearly showed its
appreciation of his thought by undivided at-
tention.

Dean Laing made a powerful and very
human appeal to us to develop more fully
the cultural in our mental lives. He clearly
showed that such development would aid us
materially in whatever career we might
choose. Even if it will not els us directly,
it will surely add much indirectly to the
fullness of our lives. The test of time is but
one of the many indications which have
proved that Homer, Vergil, Plato, and the
vast hosts of other classical writers pos-
sessed powerful intellects. It is surely of in-
estimable advantage to come under the in-
fluence of the imperial minds of the race.
They challenge every follower to high
thinking and lofty feeling. Embodying in
themselves the life of so many centuries,
they readily draw our minds into variou§
fields of knowledge, and reveal to us our
own times by unveiling a mighty past.

De Quincey divides literature into “litera-
ture of knowledge” and “literature of.
power.” Most of us do not commonly con-
ceive of literature as having sheer power.
Yet much of it has power comparable to
that of a mighty ocean liner crossing the
Atlantic in four days. Of course the power
of literature is of a different sort. Neverthe-
less, through the ages it has certainly had
more influence on the trend of human
thought and action than any other agency.

We do not think that moving pictures,
cheap periodicals, and radio programs are
entirely without value. To the contrary we
believe they are often of great worth, They
are frequently of a definite educational and
instructive character; they teach us much
with which every well informed person
should be familiar. We get some knowledge
through these channels that we can get in
no other way. It has been said that most
things are best in moderation, and so it is
with these. Whatever our interests may be,
each of us could very easily and most profit-
ably temper these common forms of amuse-
ment with a bit of classical study and read-
ing.

What Do You Know
About?

1. What Do-X is Doing?

2. On Going West?

3. Real Inventive Geniuses?

4, Standard Side-Lines?

5. What is Cruelty? :

The Do-X, giant German-built seaplane, which
can carry over 160 people at once, began its long-
projected trans-atlantic flight last week, and up
to the time of writing, its adventures have been
both interesting and exciting. From its home air-
drome across to England, where the Prince of
Wales flew the monster for awhile. Then on down
the coast of France, with Lisbon as its goal, the
plane was forced down at sea and. taxied for al-
most a hundred miles on the surface until it got toa
harbor. Then it took up its flight again, and then
on to Lisbon, and on out across he Atlantic.

The flight is both an experiment of the plane’s
airworthiness and the feasibility of possible trans-
atlantic airplane service for the near fuure. The
length of time lost by the ship in its flight due to
weather condions would have to be greatly cut
down to enable it to show a profit on trans-atlantic
flying commercially, and it seems that the steam-
future from this kind of competition.

ship lines have very little to fear in™the near

Minds are like parachutes—they only func-
tion when they are open.”—Lord Dewar.
Seventy-four years ago a rising publisher was

preaching the doctrine of “Go west, young man,
Go west.” One of the persons who heard this ad-
vice—perhaps he was one of the first to whom
Horace Greely gave this then excellent advice—
now constitutes one of the claims which its hear-
er had for first page prominence at his death, The
other was that he had been the oldest traveling
salesman on the road up to the time of his re-
tirement, having been the butt of jokes on his
kind for 64 years. Charles Terry was the man, and
when he died he was 94 years old.

Evidently he didn’t take the advice, because he
died in the state of Illinois, where Greely had so
freely given him those now famous words.

“I’m a bit jaded with golf.” Bobby Jones, of
the four major golf titles of the world.

Thomas A. Edison annually conducts a contest
to find a boy worthy to be sent through school by
him and possibly become a successor to the great
genius himself. The winner of the first contest,
held in 1929, was Walter Huston, now a sophomore
in Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

Mr. Edison was no doubt gratified to learn
that his protege has been showing a great deal
of real inventive spirit. For during the recent
Soph-Fresh rushes at M. I. T. Huston was
captured twice by irate Frosh and each time
ry ded in ping. We call that good in-

genuity and a high degree of inventiveness.

“There is nothing a politician hates more
than losing votes.” Heywood Broun, late So-
cialist candidate for Senator from New York.

Not content to have itself rather firmly in-
trenched as the outstanding oil companies of the
world, the Standard Oil companies have branched
out and added two sidelines to their filling stations
that seem foreign to the gasoline trade.

‘In an agreement with one of the large tire

companies, Standard now sells casings for all

_ cars direct from their numerous outlets, there-
by supplementing their usual gasoline business.
Added to this, a motorist can now send a tele-
gram anywhere in the United States over the
Postal Telegraph system, which has made ar-
rangement with the Standard organization to
accept telegrams at all stations.

Now it is possible to have the misfortune to
blow out a tire and run into a station for a
new casing: While there, send the girl a tele-
gram that you are unavoidably detained and it
is best to break the date. Then go blithely on
your way.

“One can be moved more by a puppy of one’s
own than by anyone else’s lion.”—Zane Grey.

Just what constitutes cruelty is often subject to
conjecture in a lawsuit. Here is a choice morsel:
A man in New York found himself faced with a
suit by his wife because he had sold their two cars
and bought a Baby Austin; charges, cruel treat-
ment, (The wife weighed 230 pounds.)

It is probable than Dean Laing’s series of
splendid lectures will be influential in stim-
ulating a current interest in classical study
on the campus. It is possible that this in-
fluence will be of a more general nature, and
bring about that long lost enthusiasm for
cultural achievement and _ independent
thought which is so needed. We sincerely
hope that they will be the motivating fac-
tor in a genuine intellectual renaissance
among the students of Davidson College.

E. C. Dwelle, Jr.

SINGS 9 te
VMATADO R

VEREEN Lyi ve
BELL —uam3/eiecmolae

The score made by Carolina last Saturday re-
minds me of the English football team that always
made the touchdown—but never got the point,
which in turn reminds me of the Englishman and
the American who were traveling. Try to stop me
if you've heard it: :

As previously stated, an Englishman and an
American were traveling together with each other
all by themselves quite alone. I would say that they
were going to Seattle but I don’t know how to
spell Seattle so I'll say. they were going to New
Yok because I know how to spell New Yok even
though they were going to Seattle. These two (not
Seattle and New Yok but the Englishman and the
American) came down a mountain and found that
the road’ forked. They searched for a sign to
direct them on the right road and finally saw an
inconspicuous sign upon the trunk of a nearby tree.
The pair read the sign and no sooner had they
finished than the American burst into a fit of
laughter. The sign read:

‘2B

The left hand road goes to
New Yok, The right hand road
goes to Boston. If you can’t
read( follow the patch up
the mountain a hundred yards
to the miller’s house and he
will direct you to the place you
wish to go.

The Englishman was quite puzzled by his friend’s
merriment and could see nothing at all funny
about the sign. The American seeing that his
companion did not see the joke laughed all the
more. Finally, however, the mood passed and they
drove on to New Yok in silence, the Englishman
all the while in a quandary. (No, Hortense, a
quandary is not where they get marble. You get
marbles at the drug store).

The travelers, reaching New Yok and very much
fatigued by their journey went at once to a hotel
and retired. After many hours the American was
awakened by the sounds of mirth issuing from
his bedfellow. Quite surprised that the man should
pick one o’clock in the morning to laugh, he
asked him what had brought all this about. The
Englishman between gasps of laughter said:

“You remember that sign back there below the
mountain that said if you couldn’t read go ask the
miller the way? Well, I just thought: Suppose you
were not able to read and came by there, saw the
sign and went up to the miller’s house and—he
wasn't at home?”

This should be a warning to all millers. I cer-
tainly wouldn’t have it said about me that I
wasn’t at home when some poor traveler came to
find out the way. In my opinion this is one of the
chief troubles with the human race today. Although
he may have learned to fly like a bird, he still
can’t sit on a barb wire fence; and after all, the re-
searches of science, chemistry’s chief contribution
to the world is the peroxide blonde. Thus we
learn that the little things in life count most, such
as staying at home; however, if everybody stayed
at home the theaters would make no money. To
get in a theater, however, you must have a ticket
so to quote from Kipling “If you lose your ticket
how you Gunga Din?” We must admit to ourselves
however, that with the talkies being perfected
what incentive is there for, a child learning to
read?. A person who can read and goes to the
talkies will be like the mechanic’s nightmare: he
thought he was standing in grease up to his neck
and not a single steering wheel on which to wipe
his hands. Thus the talking pictures have lessened
the need for reading. Therefore there will be more
people who cannot read, consequently the miller
will have to stay at home more in order that he
may read the sign to travelers. If the road is
crowded the miller will, like Moses, be rushed to
death. If the road is not crowded he will be like a
pawnship, all a loan. We must conclude that the
way to keep people on the straight and narrow
is to improve the home life of the miller just like
the way to cure insomnia is to sleep it off, And
do you know what the buffalo on a nickel.stands

for? It would be most unseemly for him to sit
down. Bye!

A surprising portion of young men today are actu-
ally incapable of growing mustaches. The admission
is deplorable and sinister.—Stephen Langton.

The law of true art, even according to the Greek
idea, is to seek beauty wherever it is to be found,
and separate it from the dross of life as gold from
ore.—Lafcadio Hearn.

All creative art is magic, is evocation of the unseen
in forms persuasive, enlightening, familiar, and sur-
prising—Joseph Conrad.

Republic or monarchy, it is all the same; what is
essential is to work for Spain.—King Alfonso.

For however inspiring a full-blooded American may
be, the most distinguishing feature of his character
is surely not humility—W. L. Phelps.
