THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 13, 1930

After Graduation --- Ministry ?

Work Of Present Day Minister

Is Fivefold,

Duties. of Preacher, Pastor, Relig-
» ious Educator, Executive, and
Leader of Worship Combined

The work of a minister is really five-
fold. He is a preacher. Despite the radio
and the flood of books that deal with reli-
gious problems, there is a larger place
than ever for the living voice. Men sor-
row today, as of old, and need comfort;
they are tempted and need encourage-
ment; they are overborne by sin and need
the assurance of a Saviour’s forgiveness;
they are woefully perplexed about reli-
gious and ethical questions and need guid-
ance; they are bruised and beaten in life’s
struggle and need inspiration. No one,
quite so clearly and certainly as the
preacher, can strike the note that the
members of the community need to hear
if they are to respond to their responsibil-
ities to God and man, and are to live joy-
ous and fruitful lives.

He is a leader of worship. Increasingly
emphasis is being put here, as people turn
hungry hearted from all that this age,
marvellously rich in material things, can
give. Men desire to know God, to feel
that He is near—in touch with them. The
minister who has entered into fellowship
with God himself, and can lead his people
into communion with Him, will find in his
church many who have come not chiefly
to hear him preach, but to join him in his
successful quest for God through what we
call the worship part of the service.

He is a religious educator. The child has
been set in our midst today, and we have
seen that the future of the race is de-
pendent upon what we can do for him.
We are being told, too, that adults can
be educated, and that parents must be
trained for their fundamental work. The
church, keeping pace with the spirit of
the age, has begun to stress its teaching
function, and the minister is responsible
for its school. He may not serve as super-
intendent, he may not teach; but he must
inspire and direct.

He is an executive, or administrator.
The church must be organized, its mem-
bers set to work, its power harnessed and
made effective. The congregation is not
simply a field to be cultivated, but a force
to be used. The minister seeing the task
steadily and seeing it whole must put each
member into that office, or on that com-
mittee, or into that place where he can
and will serve best.

He is a pastor. There are many people
who do not come to church, there are
more whose problems cannot be solved
from the pulpit. These the minister must
seek out; or fling wide a study door, and
so inspire in them confidence in his wis-
dom and love that they will seek him out.
He is a shepherd of souls, who through
his personal association with people will
guard them from wrong-doing, will sus-
tain them in trial, will lead them when
the way becomes rocky, or sun-smitten, or
obscured,

Ministers have gifts differing, and some
excel in one phase of the work, others in
another. But all of these functions belong
to the minister's office, and open doors
into the hearts and lives of people through

which he can enter to help them know |

and serve God better.

Of course some ministers become evan-
gelists; some serve as directors of reli-
gious education in the local church; some
become superintendents of home mis-
sions; some, as secretaries of the Assem-
bly’s causes, serve the whole denomina-
tion in a large way; some are called to
teach in our colleges and seminaries;
some occupy the editor’s chair; but the
foundation of the work of the church is
the regular minister, who, in a small or
large parish, serves in the ways I have
indicated. Z

There are not so many. vacant churches
in our denomination now as there have
been in the past; but there is a crying need
today for the strongest men Davidson, or
any other college can produce, to. dedicate
themselves to the full work-of the min-
istry. For such men pulpits are open, con-
gregations are waiting.

Says Dr. Thompson

Winning of America
Rests On Christians

By S. L. Morris, D.D.

The empire of Christ is a spiritual king-
dom—more extensive, more compelling,
and more enduring than that of Alexander
the Great, or of the Roman Empire—em-
bracing all worlds in the spiritual universe,
righteous in its purpose, blessed in its end
and eternal in its duration. The marching
orders of its King are imperative, “Go ye
into all the world;” and the order of the
march, “Beginning at Jerusalem;” and
the ultimate reach, “Unto the uttermost
part of the earth.”

Christianity is the active principle of
the kingdom; and the agency for bringing
it to pass is the Church, whose mission is
Missions, whose prayer and program is
“Thy kingdom come,” whose aim is to
make men like Christ, and earth like
heaven, till a redeemed universe shall
“bring forth the royal diadem and crown
His Lord of all.”

“Except the Lord build the house, they
labor in vain that build it;” but from the
human viewpoint the success of the
world-kingdom depends upon using its
means and resources to the best advan-
tage. The resources of the individual are
possessions—material things—and person-
ality—spiritual endowments. In the busi-
ness world men strive to invest their hold-
ings to the best advantage for yielding
the largest dividends. In the’ spiritual
sphere men of vision seek to invest life—
the greatest of all possessions—where it
will count most for self, for the kingdom
and for Christ.

America occupies the most valuable
stategic position calculated to hasten the
triumph of the kingdom. Almost overnight
the leadership of the nations—inseparable
from service—has been thrust upon Amer-
ica; and she has discovered her soul in
her altruistic mission. The spiritual con-
quest of herself looms larger than any
other task today—especially in view of her
unique position, holding the destiny of the
world in her hand. The distressing relig-
ious condition of our country, the battle
with paganism which has been transferred
to America, the menace to vital Christian-
ity and the influence upon the destiny. of
nations—all demand the spiritual conquest
of America as the most vital and far-
reaching task of the Church today. To lose
the battle in America today, is to postpone
the spiritual conquest of the world for
generations; to win America for Christ
and the kingdom now, is to guarantee the
triumphant sway of the cross, in its spirit-
ual influence, “To the uttermost part of
the earth.”

The winning of America today is large-
ly the task of the Home Missionary —
second to nothing in importance and in
the far-reaching sweep of its influence.
Dr. Henry Collin Minton bears testimony
to the character of his work and its rela-
tive value in the spiritual conquest of the
world: “The Home Missionary is the
peer of those who are carrying the gospel

Catalogues

Catalogues of the following South-
ern and Eastern seminaries may be
found on the Vocational Guidance
table at the “Y” rooms: Union, Co-
lumbia, and Princeton. Also cata-
logues from Medical schools and
social science departments of va-
rious universities are available to
those who may be considering For-
eign and Home Mission work in
these particular fields. Please return
these catalogues to the table when
you finish using them.

to the far-away heathen. There is a
romance of the work in either case. They
are all empire-builders alike. They bring
to their work richer tribute than even
Cecil Rhodes could command. They build
themselves into their work. It is the ro-
mance of faith and heroism, and trial and
self-sacrifice, but it is also the romance of
promise and patriotism and service and of
the crown at last.”

Exceptional groups, intrenched behind
obstinate prejudices, impenetrable en-
vironments or vexatious conditions, make
them almost inaccessible to Gospel influ-
ences. The highlander, tossed by the
surging waves of restless humanity and
left stranded on mountain height or in
isolated cove, requires all the skill and
adventure of a missionary “life-saving
station” to rescue him from his peril, un-
dertaken ordinarily without his co-opera-
tion and frequently against his strenuous
opposition. The Indian, brooding sullenly
over past wrongs or smarting under fresh
injury, withdraws within the solitude of his
proud spirit and declines with thanks
spiritual aid from the hand of the white
man which robbed him of inheritance and
inalienable rights. The Negro, behind a
barrier of race prejudice and under the
ban of a superior race by reason of racial
traits and faults fastened upon him by
heredity and strengthened by unfavorable
environment, may be geographically near
to the kingdom and very dear to Christ,
but is not in a specially receptive attitude
toward sorely needed help extended by
the more sympathetic element among his
white brethren. The immigrant, “a strang-
er in a strange land,” suffering from nos-
talgia, disappointed in his expectations of
America’s sympathetic attitude, misunder-
stood in his acts and purposes, drifting
into evil environments, difficult of ap-

proach on account of foreign speech, is }..

practically beyond the reach of church
and. gospel influences. Is Christianity
equal to the overwhelming task of Chris-
tianizing them? If it halts, balked by the
impossibility, it cannot evangelize the
world—unless America 1s eliminated from
its commission.

Wanted—Men, to invest their lives for
God, who are deaf to every call except
the service which will yield the richest.
fruit for the kingdom. They will attract
little attention and wtar no halo for long
and trying periods of toil and patient en-
durance, but in the end they will rear
superstructures on more enduring founda-
tions than granite, which will eventually
lift them into the limelight where they

?

parations.

Odburyvs
OLD Creve

Mf

HH)

We are able to offer you, for a limited time a
“Two for the Price of One,” on Jergens pre-

A OOdhury’s
IAL CREAM

WHITE DRUG CO.

e

Opportunities For Missionary

Still Great In Foreign Field

Dr. James I. Vance Brings Out
Many Interesting Facts Con-
cerning Missionary Work

Somehow the idea has become current
that opportunities for service in the For-
eign Mission fields are at low ebb. Many
are saying that the heroic days of mis-
sionary adventure are behind us. There is
an impression that the national churches
which have been organized in non-Chris-
tian lands are sufficient for the work of
propaganda, and that from now on, the
missionary himself must become a dimin-
ishing force.

This idea seems to have been strength-
ened by events which have recently trans-
pired in China. The fact that the Mission
Boards and Committees have kept candi-
dates waiting, being unable to send them
out for lack-of funds, may also have had
something to do with the impression that
service in the foreign field is coming to
be a closed door,

Nothing could be farther from the
facts. Missionaries were never ‘more
needed. They are occupying a little differ-
ent position in relation to the indigenous
churches. Leadership is passing over more
and more into the hands of national Chris-
tians. This is the result of the missionary’s

will shine “as the stars forever and ever.”

Wanted—Men! Who will answer God’s
call to unique and unequalled service—
“Also I heard the voice of the Lord, say-
ing, Whom shall I send, and who will go
for us? Then said I, ‘Here am I; send
me.’”

Atlanta, Ga.

success. But to jump to the conclusion
that the missionary is not needed is wholly
unwarranted. All the lines of service that
have been open to him are still open, and
with increasing urgency.

There is no doubt a higher estimate of
the values of the non-Christian religions
is being held, but this instead of de-
preciating, enhances the values of Christ.
For these non-Christians are seeing more
clearly than ever that Christ alone can
meet their needs.

The troubles in these countries instead
of closing the door, create Christianity’s
opportunity.

The hour is ripe for a great advance.
The Kingdom of God movement in Japan,
the effort to add a million new converts to
the church in China, are symptomatic of
what is going on in all fields.

The big era of missions is not behind;
it is ahead. It begins to look as if it
might be just ahead. With conditions so
favorable for a missionary crusade, it
would be nothing short of tragedy for the
church at home to waver and retreat.

What China needs is Christ. What India
needs is Jesus. What Japan needs is the
Christian religion. And so we might go
down the whole line.

It ‘is a great time for gifted youths to
invest life in missionary service. The best
are needed. They will find the challenge
ample. There is no open door for racial
superiority. or credal intolerance. But
those who go in the spirit of Calvary, suf-
fused with the passion of service, ready to
lay down their lives for the brethren, will
find their enlistment has swept them into
an advance that Paul might envy.

how to represent Him.

A Minister of the Gospel

SHOULD BE

Acquainted with God and his ways, and know

TO ACCOMPLISH THIS FOR ITS STUDENTS IS
ONE OF THE AIMS OF ,

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

1

For Catalog and Information, Address,

Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., President
Richmond, Virginia.

i4

FELLOWS!

You'll always find a well-equipped-U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at

Henderson’s Filling Station
DAVIDSON, N. C.

AAAAAAAAAAADAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAA AA DAD AA AAA AA AAA ALA

Monday and Tuesday

“The Girl Said No”
WILLIAM HAINES and ANITA PAGE

Wednesday
“The Laughing Lady”

Davidson Theatre

Thursday
“The Song of Love”

Friday

“Lord Byron of Broadway”

Saturday
“Officer O’Brien”

MAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAALAD
