6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 25, 1930

INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS FOR ELON GAME

3
Fa 8 £ .
@ ~~ y Ly er |

ee yy ee

Ceo ead eb dd § ee 8

O* et = facets + FOR PRASE| i

= Mcmite m O mm fy Oye a 3 Fe
Total yards advanced 69 |71 |21 12 |42 |39 |29 | 1 [46 | 3 (333
Times carried ball w-ee-tes6 1615 {2'118 (4/5 | 2/4/1 , 50
Average per play 11.5.11.8' 4.26 2.8 9.8 5.8| 5 11.5 3 6.6
Pass-s attempted 2] 2 4
Passrs completed 2 fore 4
Passes caught ___. : 1 1 | 1j1 4
Yards gained on passes 20 125) ey 6 10 | 48
Length of punts i | | 38 «| 20 35 | 35.5
Yards punts returned 25 10 | | | 38
Length of kick-offs _ | 40 (46 10) 44.2
Yards kick-offs returned re ERS Fea | 18 18
Total yards gained ___ 94 91 133 12 /42 |39 |39 1 64 3 6 |10 434
Touchdowns ______ : 1/1 eee a 1 | 6
Points after touchdown } | 2 2
Field goals | | | |
Safety __.
Points scored . 6 16 112 | | 6 6 \2 38

Davidson President Will
Speak in Three States

Dr. Lingle to Participate in Instal-
lation of Rev. Woodson at
Salisbury
During the next.month, Davidson College
will be represented its President, Dr
Walter L. Lingle, in a number of churches
and in two Synodical meetings. In order to
fill these engagements, he will travel to va-
rious cities in North Carolina, South Caro-

lina, and Virginia.

by

On Sunday, September 28, Dr. Lingle will
participate in the installation of Rev. Mar-
shall Woodson as pastor of the First Presby-
terian Church ‘of Salisbury. That evening,
he will preach in the Myers Park Presby-
terian Church of Charlotte. The following
Sunday, October. 5, he will return to his
old pastorate in Rock Hill, S. C., where the
First Presbyterian Church is conducting a
home-coming for its former members and
former pastors. This is being held in con-
nection with the Kings Mountain celebration.
On October 12,. Dr. ‘Lingle will hold the
pulpit at the Davidson Church. The Presi-
dent will then attend the meeting of the
Synod of North Carolina, being held at Wil-
mington, October 14. From there he will go
direct to Richmond, Va., for a meeting of
the General Assembly’s Committee of Re-
ligious Education and Publication. On the
22nd Dr. Lingle will deliver two addresses
at the meeting of the North Carolina Synod-
ical Auxiliary at Belmont.

Upperclassmen to

Take Physical Exam

The physical examination for upperclass-
men begins this week in the basement of
Chambers under the direction of Dr. J. W.
MacConnell, head of the College Medical
Department, and Professor N. G. Pritchett,
director of physical education.

Beginning with the football men of the
Sophomore, Junior and Senior classes, Dr,
MacConnell will examine and take measure-
ments. The measurements will be kept and
at the end of the year a cup will be given
to the student who shows the most im-
provement. The Freshmen
been éxamined.

have already

This examination, which is réquired of all
men entering the college, is primarily to de-
termine the student’s condition and to find
out if he is physically fit to participate in
athletics and other strenuous pastimes. Spe-
cial attention is paid to the man’s heart ac-
tion in this respect.

Student Store Has New
Organization Completed

Rusk and Smith Head Staff to
Operate Store

The Student Store, run for the purpose
of raising funds to build a swimming pool
for the use of students of Davidson College,
is operated by two Senior managers and
eight clerks chosen from the Student Body.
The two managers, Dean Rusk and Law-
rence Smith, act as buyer and bookkeeper,
respectively.

As this store is run for the benefit of the
students and on the Honor System basis,
the students are permitted to get anything
they wish and pay the clerk as they go out.
The management asks that everyone pay
before leaving, as this will save a return trip
and facilitate the bookkeeping.

All foodstuffs and practically everything
else that a student will need may be ob-
tained there at the same prices as at the
stores downtown. It is desirable that every-
one buy as much as possible there because
the swimming pool is wanted as soon as
possible. Work on this pool is to be started
as soon as enough funds are available.

STUDENT DIRECTORY

(Continued from page 5)
O'Keeffe, John G., 410 West.
Ormand, Benjamin F., 14 North.
Parker, William A., Home.
Phillips, Angus P., 9 North.
Pierce, W. Frank, 410 West.
Powell, Edward L ..8 Georgia.
Pratt, James H., 408 West.
Pratt-Thomas, Rawling, 107 East.
Pratt, Lanier W., 306 West.
Purcall, D. Craig, 314 East.
Rachal, Adolphe S., 3 Rumple.
Rankin, Thomas P., Jr., 5 North.
Rayenel, B. Owen, 206 West.
Ray, Arnold, 9 North.

Reed, Charles H., 2 North.

Reid, Willia mM., Jr., 22 Georgia.
Rhyne, Henry H., 401 Watts.

Rice, Albert W., 306 Fast.
Robbins, George C., 207 West. *
Rodwell, Edward P., Jr., 409 Fast.
Rosenbaum, D, Robinson, La.
Rowan, Robert L., 109 Watts,
Rybarn, William F., 407 West.
Schenck, Alexander, 12 Georgia.
Scott, Francis H., 3 South.
Shapard, Henry C., 7 North.

Shaw, A. W., 312 East.

Sikes, Oscar J., 309 East.
Slaughter, J. F.,. Home.

Smith, Ralph H., Jr., 25 Rumple.
Smyre, Frederic L., Jr., 306 Watts.
Snead, Frederic C., Fulchers.
Spencer, Dale K., 7 North.
Stanley, Wm. G., 210 East.

Steele, John S., 10 Rumple. :
Stevens, W. Richard, 312 West.
Strange, John M., 301 East.
Thompson, W. McIlwaine, 312 Fast.
Thompson, W. Taliaferro, Jr., 208 Fast.
Thrower, Woodrow W., 11 North.
Tomlinson, Sidney H., 410 East.

Tong, Afffed~.,, 15 Rumple.
RAR aS North.

Walser, William T., 214 West.
Wehner, Dallas H., 308 East.
West, W. Julian, 4 South.
White, James W., 211 Watts.
Whitener, Olin M., 1 Rumple.
Williams, Archibald, A West.
Williams, Jack, Jr., 405 Watts.
Williams, Joseph C., 313 Fast.
Williams, W. Marshall, 402 East.
Wilson, Hugh A., Jr., 15 Rumple.
Wilson, James S., 8 South.
Wilson, Samuel C., 114 East.
Woodside, Robert E., 5 Rumple.
Wootton, Lucius B., Jr., 22 Georgia.
Yancy, William T., Jr.. D West.

Last year there were more college aN
in the United States than in all the rest
of the world combined. There were 1,237,-
000 students enrolled in colleges and jiniver-

sities in this country.
y

The first book from the Hunter College
Press, just established, is a Latin text book
for adults.

Every person in the United States is on
the average $2.32 poorer than he was a year
ago.

There are only 27 moving picture theaters
in the province of Szechwan, China, al-
though the province has a population of sixty
million people.

Social Fraternities - |
Are Week-end Hosts

In addition to the swarms of spectators
that came to Davidson Saturday for the

| Elon game, came the largest group of girls

for the fraternity house parties that has
been seen on the campus in many months.
A number of the girls were entertained at
the fraternity houses while quite a few were
taken to the entertainment at Mooresville.

‘The following girls were guests of the
following fraternities :
Beta Theta Pi

Dee Hall, Belmont, N. C.; Elizabeth
Johnson, Charlotte; Margaret Montgomery,
Charlotte; Frances Stowe, Charlotte; Kath-
erine Tucker, Charlotte; Penelope Cannon,
Concord; Mary Holland, Gastonia; Dorothy
Dillon, Raleigh; Willa Walker,,.Burlington ;

Louise Galloway, Winston-Salem; Anne
Hoover, Concord.
Pi Kappa Alpha
Frances Webster, Charlotte; Frances

Craig, Charlotte; Louise Harrison, Greens-
boro; Ella McPhail, Red Springs; Caroline
Highsmith, Gastonia; Mary Alice Coyle,
Hickory; Virginia Baily, Hickory; Sylvia
Steele, Statesville; Edith Sherrill, States-
ville; Mary Sherrill, Statesville.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon

Louise Thompson, Lexington; Sara Wal-
ser, Lexington; Vera Webb Oates, Char-
lotte; Bebe Hyde, Salem College; Kathryn
Stokes, Charlotte; Dorothy Montgomery,
Charlotte; Betty Webb, Concord; Nancy
Watts, Charlotte.
Phi Delta Theta

Ruth Spurrier, Gastonia; Louise Spurrier,
Gastonia; Kathryn O'Farrell, Kings Moun-
tain; Martha Dulin, Charlotte; Peggy
Stephens, Charlotte; Eleanor Spencer, Char-
lotte; Evelyn Erwin, Olive
Singleton, Shelby.

Sally Couch, Charlotte; Katherene Couch,

Lincolnton ;

Charlotte; “Martha Matheson, Charlotte ; |
Irma Edmonson, Charlotte.

Kappa Alpha

Carolyn Kirkpatrick, Charlotte; Alice

Davis, Atlanta, Ga.; Virginia Miller, Sedge-
field; Pat Miller, Sedgefield; Lucy Currie,
Davidson; Daisey Calwell, Davidson; May
Marion ,Charlotte; Dot Dimmand, Char-
lotte; Natalie Emory, Charlotte; Eleanor
Hays, Charlotte; Jane Patterson, Jackson-
ville, Fla.; Mary Patterson, Charlotte.
Sigma Phi Epsilon

Grace Sessum, Charlotte; Sarah Math,
Charlotte; Sarah Cunningham, Clarksville,
Tenn.; Sarah Spratt, Charlotte; Katherine
Crowell, Charlotte; Dorothy Woolley, Char-
lotte; Minna Caldwell, Charlotte; Adeline
Woolley, Charlotte; Louise High, White-
ville, N. C.; Marie Tyrnipseed, Emory, Ga. ;
Mary Smith, Marlin, Texas; Virginia Knee,
Charlotte; Mary McNinch, Charlotte ; Emily
Frazer, Charlotte; Irene Long, Concord.
Kappa Sigma

“Babe” Jones, High Point; Frances Mar-
shall, Rock Hill; Nancy O'Hanlon, Win-
ston-Salem; Brantley Nichols, Charlotte;
“Fuzzy” Boyken, Charlotte; “Kitty” Dan-
gerfield, Virginia Beach.
Theta Upsilon Omega

Ruth Lowrance, Statesville; Claudia Bar-
rett, Charlotte; Julia Josephs, Charlotte ;
Ellen Hawkins, Charlotte; Nina Cranford,
Albemarle; Jean Porter, Charlotte; Evelyn
Sherrill, Statesville; Mildred Beasley, Char-

lotte; Beaty Josephs, Charlotte; Elizabeth
Hatch, Charlotte; Hallie Talbert, Albe-
marle; Mary Caldwell, Charlotte; Irene

Belk, Charlotte; Edith Storm, Charlotte ;
Kathryn Brown, Charlotte; Josephine Diet-
rich, Charlotte.
Phi Gamma Delta

Lucy Follin, Winston-Salem; Margaret
Gorrell, Winston-Salem; Mary Neil Hobbs, |
Statesville; Margaret Kimbrell, Charlotte ;
Minihyl Davies, Concord; Virginia Good-
man, Salem College; Eleanor Willingham,
Winston-Salem; Martha Sapp, Concord;
“Babe” Hatcher, N. C. C. W.
Pi Kappa Phi

Mary Scott Johnston, Charlotte; Edna
Rowe, Hickory; Billie Tucker, Charlotte ;
“Eb” Johnson, Charlotte; Margaret Mel-
chor, Mooresville; Olive Gregory, Colum- |
bia, S. C.; Lillian Kendall, Charlotte; Vir- |
ginia Melchor, Mooresville; Frances Math- |
eson, Charlotte. |

Magazines
Books

Stationery

New Records Every Week

Superior Soda Service
W. S. HENDERSON

Watches
Clocks

Fountain Pens

WILDCATS AND WOLFPACK

(Continued from page 1)
rience is on the side of the Wildcats, and
it seems that the Wildcats will be able to
put a more diversified offense on the field.

Offsetting these will be the weight ad-
vantage resting with State. The line’ that
from tip to tip will outweigh Davidson even
more than ten pounds to a man.

The final advantage resting with State
is the fact that they will be more familiar
with night conditions. They have played one
game under the arcs, and practice regularly
under them. Davidson will be new to the
entire proceedings, and this will certainly
handicap their play.

The starting line-ups will probabiy be
much the same as that which took the field
for each team last Saturday. These will be:

Davidson Position State
PrOctOfvececese cass ebyZeetesscssas Duke
GOvington) sesneees fl easuecceoesen: Cobb
Brock Ssesc2, 5502 TiGieee cs sees Matlack
McConnell ~----- Genteneecussssea: Espey
Mathis ceecoscs een Ry Gpesece oceans * Stout
Benard cee sccseeg Rilieoneecooes Stroupe
BROWN cseecoco ses Rib Seeceeles Greason
Fraley Adams
McCall Watt
Rite o2os ese e eee RA eee ceece Cook
Bradshaw, Brohard F.B,---------- Guerney

NEW DEVICE

(Continued from page 1)

With each beat the tiny organism pulled
down a little lever that dipped a fine fila-
ment into a drop of mercury and made a
contact that transmitted an electric impulse
to the chronograph. There it was’ translated
in a fraction of a second into a record inked
on a chart.

Introduction into the solution of nicotine—
one part in ten thousand—and of adrenaline

one part immediately
noted .-by a marked retarding of the heart
tempo in the first case and a swift accelera-

in a_ billion—was

tion in the second.

HEAD OF UNION SEMINARY

and service. His new location was the Cen-
tral Presbyterian Church, Atlanta, Ga.,
where he served from 1919 to 1926. Since
that time he has served as president of
Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va.
During this period he was honored by a de-
gree of Doctor of Divinity by Davidson Col-
lege, and a Doctor of Law degree from
Hampden-Sidney University.

It will probably be of interest to the stu-
dents also, that Dr. Lacy’s grandfather, Rev.
Dr. Dewey Laty, was president of David-
son College from 1855 to 1860, and that his
father, for whom he was named, was treas-
urer of the State of North Carolina,.as well
as a member of the board of trustees of
Davidson.

His record has been marked by distin-
guished success, whether as a missionary
to country churches, brilliant chaplain ‘and
captain in the World War, as pastor of a
large church, or as president of a great
theological seminary. And, as Dr. Walter
Lingle says, ‘Although he has filled all these

‘distinguished positions, his manner 1s marked

by the utmost simplicity and charm, whether
in the pulpit or out of it.”

DUTT oe Oe

HUY HAUL QUUNENLEUUNHUUUUE Nat HRA DUNE UNE AR Na

WEEK-END

Can be made economically in a well equipped
U-Drive-It Ford from—

HENDERSON’S FILLING STATION

College Calendar

Friday, Sept. 26th—A pep meeting
for the entire student body will
be held in Shearer Hall imme-
diately after supper.

Sunday, Sept. 28th—“Y” Vespers in
Chambers auditorijm at 6
o’clock p. m. Dr. Edgar G. Gam-
mon, pastor of the Myers Park
Presbyterian Church in Char-
lotte, will speak.

Tuesday, Sept. 30th—Literary Soci-
ety meetings at 7:15.

Wednesday, Oct. 1st—Prayer Meet-
ing, Presbyterian Church
7:30 p. m.

at

A DREAM COME TRUE

Philadelphia Ledger.

The appointment of John D. Clark to a
professorship in the- University of Denvet
may not be extraordinary in itself, but it
points to a dream fulfilled in a way that will
strike a sympathetic chord in many hearts.
For Mr. Clark two years ago gave up his
job as a high-salaried executive and returned
to college, an independently wealthy man,
who wished to study things he. had missed
in his early efforts for financial success.

In 1928, after twenty-one years in the busi-
ness world had seen him rise to the presi-
dency of a great refining company, Mr. Clark
retired to Johns Hopkins University to stydy
economics and allied subjects. He will com-
plete his three-year post-graduate work this
year and then will enter the leisurely life
of teaching the subjects he enjoys. That any
man should so cherish his dream of academic
life that he would give up the presidency
of a big corporation to achieve that dream
will amaze and perhaps hearten others whose
dreams have been deep buried in the whirl
of day-after-day business.

J. H. Gentry, °13, is head of the public
schools: at Advance, N. C. For the past ten
years he has been connected with the States-
ville public schools.

The most densely populated body of land
in the world is Java with a population of
690 persons per square mile.

Seventy per cent of the English-speaking
people of the world live on the North Amer-
ican continent, and 60 per cent of them in
the United States.

It costs the City of ‘New York $930,000
a day to operate its public school system.
and the figure is expected to reach a million
dollars in the near future.

Davidson Men Are
Always Welcome
At
NORTON’S

BARBER SHOP
; pemuetngttt : MMT imi
TRIPS ?
VUUSDUUND ANT ADSUERS YEAR DESY YUASA UE {Ul nl

Davidson Theatre

The Davidson Theatre has entirely new sound

equipment and the managers are doing every-

thing in their power to bring to you the best pic-

tures made.

b
y

