THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 15, 1930

hy

Several Recommendations!Accepted
By Alumni CounciljLast Saturday

Office of Alumni Secretary Will Be
Moved to Chambers Building
Next Year

MILTON RE-ELECTED

Davidsonian to Be Sent to All
Davidson Alumni Who Pay
Dues

Holding their first meeting since last
June, the Davidson College Alumni Coun-
cit met at Davidson last Saturday for an
extended and important session, listened
to a financial report of the treasurer and
a report from the alumni secretary, dis-
cussed recommendations offered, re-
election Ernest Milton as alumni secre-
tary, and heard a report from the David-
son Alumni Athletic Council.

With H. Smith Richardson, ’06, presid-
ing, there was a joint meeting of the Ath-
letic and Alumni Council, members attend-
ing including H, T. Mills, ’06, Greenville,
S. C.; Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, '06, Char-
lotte; John W. McAlister, ’19, Greens-
boro; Lunsford Richardson, '14, Greens-
boro; I. P. Graham, ’08, Cooleemee, and
L. H. Wilkinson, ’13, Charlotte. Dr. Wal-
ter L. Lingle, '92, president of Davidson;
F. L. Jackson, '06, treasurer of the col-
lege, and Ernest Milton, ’26, alumni sec-
retary, also attended,

Since the alumni work was started at
Davidson, the office has been located in
the south end of Elm Row, separate from
the main building. It was recommended to
to the Council that the office be moved to
Chambers, which recommendation was ac-
cepted. Many reasons were advanced for
this change, one of which was to make
part-time stenographic assistance avail-
able to the secretary.

It was also decided by the Alumni
Council to send The Davidsonian free to
all Davidson alumni who subscribed a
minimum of $5.00 to the Alumni Associa-
tion. Arrangements have been made with
the business .staff of this publication to
make this possible. The Davidsonian mail-
ing list will be considerably increased be-
cause of this, and the alumni will be given
the latest news of the college and alumni
through this newspaper.

‘Engagements

Mr. and Mrs. John Nicholas Page, of
Charlottesville, Va., announce the engage-
ment of their daughted, Rosalie Nelson,
to Rev. Ray Montanya Carr, of Keswick,
Va., the wedding to take place in June.

Rev. Mr. Carr graduated at Davidson in
1925, and after teaching school for a year
or two he attended and graduated from

Discussion of a plan to increase the in-
terest of Davidson alumni was considered,

which involves an enlargement of the.

Council, with a Board of Directors doing
the work of the present organization of
seven men. The plan was referred back to
the alumni secretary, with suggestions for
further revision before adoption. This was
likewise true of a constitution and by-
laws.

Alumni trustees were nominated by the
Council, and the names will be sent out on
a mail ballot within the next ten days.
Four are to be elected this commence-
ment, three of the terms expiring in June,
and the fourth to fill the unexpired term
of Dr. Walter Lingle, now president of
Davidson. The names have not yet been
made public,

An informal report was heard from the
Alumni Athletic Council, which showed
the financial standing of the Athletic As-
sociation ,to be fair. It was also stated by
the chairman of the committee that the
present coaching staff would remain in-
tact.

Future plans were discussed within the
circle of the group, and advice and assist-
ance of the various members were asked
in carrying this out.

The Council, as a body, sent a message
of sympathy to Lawrence H. Wilkinson,
of Charlotte, who had attended the morn-
ing and early afternoon session, but who
was called to Charlotte on account of the
death of his father.

Dr. Henry Louis Smith,. former presi-
dent of Davidson and now president-
emeritus of Washington and Lee, was a
luncheon guest of the Council at 1:15 at
the Maxwell Chambers Hotel. ‘

“DRUGS”

CANDY -:-

WHITE DRUG CO.

“PRESCRIPTIONS

“SODA”

FLOWERS

Many Alumni to Attend
The General Assembly

Whenever the General Asembly of the
Southern Presbyterian Church meets in
the spring, it is usually the time when be-
tween fifty and«seventy-five Davidson
alumni assemble as delegates, speakers
and others visitors. Last May the con-
ference met at Montreat, and approxi-
mately 65 Davidson alumni were present.
A meeting was called at 10 o’clock one
night, when Dr. Walter L. Lingle and
others spoke towover half that number.
The General Assembly this year meets
at Charlottesville, Va., convening for its
first session on May 22nd. Through Rev.
Dwight M. Chalmers, ’20,.who is now
located at Charlottesville, a luncheon or
dinner is being arranged for the Davidson

Union Theological Seminary at Richmond.
Since completing his work there he has
held the pastorate at Keswick, Va.

alumni, when a representative of the in-
stitution will be there to speak to them.
The exact date has not yet been decided
upon. a

According to the lists recently published
in the church papers, Davidson alumni
who are principal delegates include Rev.
N. G. Stevens, ’08, Huntsville, Ala.; Rev.
J. G. Patton, Jr., 16, Abington, Va.; Rev.
J. I: Knight, ’22, Holston Valley, Tenn.;
Rey, S. L. mee 18, Cornelia, Ga.; Rev.

E, G. Clary, 16, Smyrna, Ga.; Rev. Neal
L. Anderson, D.D., ’85, Savannah, Ga.;
Rev. W. A. Ramsey, '09, Beuchel, Ky.;
Rev. C. E. McLean, ’08, Stanford, Ky.--
Rev. J. C. Rowan, D.D., '04, Concord;
Rev. J. E. Flow, D.D., 1900, Davidson; J.
B. Johnston, ’01, Barium Springs; Rev.
B. R. Lacy, D.D.»’06, Richmond, Va.; Rev.
J. R. Walker, ’21, Raleigh, N. C.; Rev. C.
H. Little, '98, Charlotte; T. B. Spratt, ’09,
Charlotte.

==

Special Designs

DELUXE ICE CREAM

At Students’ Store and Dealers

MOORESVILLE ICE CREAM COM PANY

Mooresville, N. C.

Brick Eskimo Pies

>
=~

SEMEXISS

VS )

ilu
rol Y
nh OM ae

HE TORE OFF HIS FAISE WHISKERS —
AND IT WAS JACK |

JOmN HELD JR
ENGRAVER

“Lucinda, my love, I knew you would be true. ’TisI.. . your own

Jack Delavere!”’

é&

“Jack,”’ replied Lucinda blushing prettily, “must I confess? I recog-

A Minister of the Gospel

SHOULD BE

nized you from the first. That honey-smooth voice . .. those golden
tones... that perfect throat-ease cah belong only to a man who smokes
OLD GOLDs. You wag... you thought to confuse me, but nay! The
A Man of PEaY SF. mild and mellow queen-leaf tobacco sets its OLD GOLD mark upon

you as sterling upon silver. There’s not a bark in a billion.”

TO ACCOMPLISH THIS FOR ITS STUDENTS IS
ONE OF THE AIMS OF .

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

FASTEST GROWING CIGARETTE IN HISTORY

For Catalog and Information, Address, ++ eeeeeeeeNOTA COUGH IN A CARLOAD

Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., President
Richmond, Virginia.

Listen in... OLD GOLD—PAUL WHITEMAN HOUR, every Tuesday, 9 P. M., Eastern Time

é
