DAVIDSON-DUKE
MONDAY
NIGHT
CHARLOTTE

THE DAVIDSONIAN |

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

we 4

EVERYBODY’S
GOING
TO BACK THOSE
WILDCATS

Vol. XVII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 6, 1930

No. 16.

Dr. Harry Rimmer, Able
Minister and Scientist

Will Speak Here Feb.9

Is Famous Lecturere, Pastor, and
Archeologist of Los Angeles,
California

TOWN PEOPLE INVITED

Will Conduct Y. M. C. A. Services
Sunday Night

The Y. M. C. A. has announced that Dr.
Harry Rimmer, famous archeologist, scien-
tist, physician, pastor, and former prize
fighter, of Los Angeles, will speak at the
Vesper Service Sunday night, February 9.
Owing to the many varied interests and
qualifications of Doctor Rimmer, the “Y”
wishes to extend an invitation to all towns-
people to attend the service as well as urge
that no student miss the opportunity to hear
a man who has caught the interest of the
entire student bodies of Emory University,
Agnes Scott, and many other
schools of note.

Dr. R. O. Fiinn, of Atlanta, said last year
that he would consider Davidson exceedingly
fortunate to get. Doctor Rimmer here. Doctor
Gillespie, President of Columbia Seminary
also recommends him very highly as do also
several other leading men of Atlanta. The
Atlanta “Journal” says, “Doctor Rimmer is
just the sort of fellow you would like to have
make a pep talk to your football team before
it went on the field. We should say that he
is somewhere between the ages of 25 and
38 and he has a punch and keen wit that
makes his talks fascinating even when he is
discussing skulls and skeletons and bones of
long departed brethren.”

Doctor Rimmer comes to Charlote to con-
duct a series of lectures in the First Pres-
byterian Church, which has kindly consented
to allow him to come to Davidson for the
Vesper Service. ;

This man’s biography is one of intense
interest. From welter-weight champion in
boxing in the Pacific Fleet, Doctor Rimmer
was converted and gave his life to the cause
of Christ. Since that time he has become pas-
tor of one of the large Presbyterian churches
in Los Angeles, California. He is a physician
and many noted doctors and surgeons have
remarked that he never uses a_ scientific
term incorrectly. At the present time he is
Curator of the Museum of the State Teachers
College of Kansas. His time is now divided
between scientific research, direction of af-
fairs of the museum, and_ lecturing
preaching in churches and colleges.

To hear this man is to hear a scientist and
a minister discuss in a new light the old
question of science and religion.

southern

and

Frew To Represent
Davidson In Contest

Allen Frew will be Davidson’s entrant in
the annual American Legion oratorical con-
test which will be held in Raleigh, February
22. “Our Flag” will be the subject of Frew’s
oration. All North Carolina colleges are
sending representatives to the contest, ac-
cording to reports.

The preliminaries will be held in the after-
noon, and the five best speakers will enter
the finals that evening at eight o'clock. The
first prize is fifty dollars and a gold medal,
and the second prize is twenty-five dollars.

Frew is the outstanding orator in David-
son College and one of the foremost college
speakers in the south. He won first place in
the southern district of the national consti-
tutional contest at Atlanta last year. His
oration on the Constitution won third honor
in the national competition in LosAngeles.

Davidson Has Two Men
At Princeton Seminary

Alexander and Phifer Represent
College in Graduate School

Two graduates of Davidson College are
students at Princeton Theological Sem-
inary, Princeton, N. J., this year, accord-
ing to recent announcements from that in-

(Continued on Page 6)

Capt. F. M. Cochran To

Replace

Fresh Cagers Make
L. S. Pierce Captain

Just before the Belmont-Abbey game,
“Skinny” Pierce, of Spencer, N. C., flashy
center of the Freshman team, was elected
captain. This year's Freshman team appears
to be one of the best in recent years, and its
success has been due in a large part to the
brilliant playing of Pierce.

Pierce is one of the most prominent men
in the Freshmen Class. He came from Oak
Ridge Military Institute where he was very
active in baseball, football, and basketball.
This fall Pierce was one of the mainstays
of the Freshman football team. He played
end in a very capable manner, and won praise
from all who saw him in action. Aside from
leadership in athletics, Pierce shown
that he has the qualities of a leader in other
fields, by the fact that he was one of the
candidates for the .presidency of the Fresh-
man Class. His work in the basketball team
this winter has been excellent. Besides han-
dling the position at center very well, he is
high point man on the team. His shooting
and floor work has been consistent the whole
year,

has

Glee Club Arranges
For Extensive Tour

Orchestra Will Accompany Glee
Club on Trip

“The Davidson Glee Club has made definite
dates for their tour through Virginia and
North Carolinay They are scheduled to ap-
pear at Mary Baldwin College, at Staunton,
Va., February 13; Greensboro for Women,
Greensboro, Februery 14; and Mitchell
College, Statesville, N.C. February 15.
Also they have possibilities of getting dates
at Roanoke, Va. Ned Heeffner has been
sent as advance agent to make further ar-
rangements, The: Glee Sub will begin its
tour February 12 and fill its final engage-
ment, February 15.

The program of the Glee Club will include
songs by the entire group, several selection
by the two quartets, and special numbers by
the orchestra.

The Glee Club and Orchestra will travel
by bus during the North Carolina- Virginia
trip.

The club will hake a southern trip soon,
taking in Atlanta. They also have many one
day trips pending which they expect to fill.

Scout Organization

To Be Formed Soon

Last Monday morning, immediately after
Chapel, a meeting was called to set on foot
an organization for men who are interested
in boy-scout work and other clubs or or-
ganizations for boys. This council which is
now being formed is sponsored by the Cher-
okee Council which includes a number of
northern counties in the state, according to
Carl Pritchett.

At this first meeting a nominating commit-
tee was appointed, and it is expected that
they will present their selections at the next
meeting. Joe McCall, Steve and Frank Buck-
ner composed this committee. A constitu-
tion will be drawn up in the near future.

This organization is open to all Davidson
men, and any student who is at all inter-
ested or would like to enter Scout work is
urged to acquaint himself with this council
here at Davidson.

The Council plans to invite a number of
famous scout leaders and workers to Visit
Davidson and lecture on the organization
and administration of the Scout movement,
including the financing and leadership re-
quired by such an organization.

Captain Elkins |

Elkins Expects to Enter Foreign
Service

Capt. Franklin M. Cochran, now: stationed
in the Philippine Islands, has recently been
ordered by the United States War Depart-
ment to report here in September ‘to replace
Capt. John Elkins, who is completing his
fifth year here. The usual term of service
here is four years, but Captain Elkins, ob-
tained special permission to remain an extra
year. Though Captain Elkins has not yet
his offieial the War
Department at Washington, he has been
informed that he will be assigned to foreign

received orders from

service, the particular point being undecided.

He expects to hear definitely next month.

The new member of next year's staff is a
native South Carolinian, having been” born
in Greenville. He is a graduate of the in-
fantry school in Georgia, and he was a
member of the national guard in that state
from 1904 to 1917. When America entered
the World War, he went overseas, and dur-
ing the three years in which he was serving
he became a lieutenant colonel. Since his
return to the States he has been an executive
officer at Camp Gordon, and for the past
year and a half has been stationed at the
headquarters of Unele Sam's. forces in’ the
Philippines.

Debaters Tryouts
Will be Held Soon

Final Selection Will Be Made
February Fourteenth
Tryouts for the debating teams that will
represent Davidson this spring will be held
on February 14, according to the announce-
ment of R. M. Christian, of Mobile, Ala.
President of the Forensic Council. At this
time, the varsity candidates and all others
who are interested in the art of debating will
appear before Davidson judges. It is proba-
ble that four teams will be chosen.

The query which has been chosen as the
subject for the tryouts iss “Resolved that the
nations should adopt a plan of complete dis-
armament, excepting such forces as are ne-
cessary for police purposes.” This question
has been selected as the subject for debate
with opponents in a number of the spring
engagements, and of the present
world conference in London, Material for the
debaters is already available in the library.

apropos

Six veterans of the platform will be among
the more students who are ex-
pected to speak on February 14, They are,
R. M. Christian, Mobile, Ala.; Zeb V) Long,
Jr.; Statesville; W. B. McGuire, Jr., Frank-
lin; I. I. Marsh, Jr.. Marshville; Carl R.
Pritchett, Reidsville; and J. C. Matthews,
Lumberton.

dozen or

Course in Coaching

To Be Offered Soon

Sometime during the spring semester a
simple course in coaching will be open to
those students considéring teaching positions
after they leave Davidson. Each of the
major sports will be dealt with and_ in-
struction relative to group training and cal-
istenics will be given. Capt. Norton G.
Pritchett will be in charge of this work and
all men interested should either give him
their names or see Chester Arnold. some
time in the very near future.

The course which is to be offered will be
the equivalent of that offered in a summer
school session, but will be extended over a
period of about two months. While not, in
itself, sufficient to. prepare a man for a
coaching position, the course will give a firm
foundation in that field which would be in-
valuable to any preparatory or high school
teacher.

Clark and Enochs
Elected

At a recent meeting the Fresh-
man Class completed its election of
officers. Jerome B. Clark, Jr., of
Fayetteville, N. C., was elected Vice-
President and J. D. Enochs, of Blue-
field, W. Va., Secretary and Treas.
urer. This election completes the
organization of the Class of '33, the
President, Bruce Peabody, having
been elected several weeks ago.

Talented Organist
To Appear Tonight

Mr. Paul’ F. Bennyhoff, talented young
organist of New York city, will give a con-
cert in’ the Chambers Auditorium, Thurs-
day, February 6, at 7:30 p.m. Mr. Benny-
hoff recently made a very successful debut
in New York and is now making a tour of
the Southern States. He is rendering selec-
tions at different cities and colleges in the

» South.

Mr. Bennyhoff studied music abroad for
several years under such teachers as Dupre,
organist at Notre Dame Cathedral, and Ni-
Notre Dame.
two men are among the most noted organists
in Europe.

Included in’ his experiences

dor, also organist at These

are several
years of service at the American church at
Paris, France. Mr. Bennyhoff is a vety ver-
satile young organist and will give difficult
renditions which demonstrate his skill
such, The greater part of the program pre-
sented will consist of classical music.

Following is the program of the recital:

1. Piece Heroique (Heroism),
Franck.

2. Spring Song, Will C. MacFarlane.

3. Finale, Cesar Franck.

4. In Summer, Charles Stebbins

5. Prelude and Fugue in A Minor, J. S.
Bach.

6. The Answer, W. Wolstenholme

7. The Chimes of Westminister,
Vierne.

as

Cesar

Louis

Mooresville Pastor
Speaks at Vespers

“Open Windows” is Subject of
Inspiring Address

Dr. Rk. A. White, pastor of the Mooresville
Presbyterian Church brought a very inspir-
ing message on the topic, “Open Windows,”
to the “Y” Vesper Service Sunday evening.
Kd Close read the scripture and Sam Coker
and Jack McKinnon led in prayer. Dr. C. M.
Richards, of the introduced — the
speaker as an excellent preacher, a splendid

faculty,

pastor, and a fine presbyter, a combination
hard to find in one man.

“And his window being open in his cham-
ber toward Jerusalem,” part of Daniel 6:10,
was Doctor White's chosen text. “Daniel,”
he said, “held a great amount of power. in
this foreign king’s court; and as is the case
with any man who stands up for his convic-
tions, he had many enemies. A crisis had
arrived in his career, and the way he turned
revealed the “true trend of his heart
mind, He opened the window toward Jeru-
salem which stood for God and _ religious
traditions. May we always remember under
similar circumstances to open our windows
toward Jerusalem.

“Daniel couldn't see Jerusalem, yet he still
looked. He especially needed a vision of God
and the spiritual influences on his life at
this time. There are the unseen things. The
unseen spiritual realities are what young
men are looking for today. We can lay hold
of them by faith in Jesus Christ alone, and
thus the unseen will become real. Jesus set
us the example of ever looking heavenward
whence he derived more strength and power
to face the great obstacles and disappoint-
ments he overcame. “

“Another lesson we can learn from Dan-
iel in this case is the right attitude toward
the unattainable. He had no hope of ever
seeing what he was looking for. To human
sight this ‘was unattainable. God has given
to each of us many talents by which we may
attain many splendid things. But the man of

(Continued on Page 8)

and

Wildcats Meet Powerful
Duke Blue Devil Quintet
On Feb. 10, In Charlotte

Duke Team This Year is Considered
One of Strongest in the Country

HAS DEFEATED NAVY

Cats Are Wild and Determined to
Win

The Davidson Wildcats will face the su-
preme test of the season when they meet the
powerful Duke Blue Devilg in the Central
High gym at Charlotte, Monday night, Feb-
ruary 10. Tf Duke can push Davidson back,
then it will have a clean record in the state,
having previously defeated Wake Forest,
N. C. State, and the U. of N.C. Davidson,
on the other hand, has had but one Big Five
contest, defeating Carolina by two points.

Duke undoubtedly has once of the strong-
est teams in the country this year, having
heen defeated only once, then by a strong
Southern contender, W. & T..,
during its triumphant march through North
Carolina. After the trouncing the Blue Devils
had given the previously undefeated Navy
five, the Navy coach is quoted as saying that

Conference

Duke possessed the fastest quintet ever to
play on the Navy court, and, that in particu-
lar, Werber, stellar guard, was the fastest
and flashiest man he had ever witnessed on
any court.

Everyone on the Duke quintet has played
together as long as two years, and some even
more, Therefore, they have a eféam that
knows how to work together, and therein
lies the. secret of their success.
giant six-foot three-inch center, has been a
big factor in Duke's many triumphs so far,
and two sharpshooting forwards, Rogers and
Councillor, are equally good. Captain Farley
and Werber comptete a team of excellent
quality.

Croson,;

Against this dangerous five, Coach “Monk”
Younger has to offer a team somewhat. in-
experienced but undoubtedly the best to rep-
resent Davidson in years. If the
‘Cats expect to win, it’s up to Goodson and
Proctor to cramp the style of Chalky Coun-
cillor and George Rogers, while Johnston,
Pritchett, and Rusk are slipping through
the defense Webber and Farley hav to offer.
The mere fact that the ’Cats are playing
against overwhelming odds will tend only to
make then stronger, and therefore, Davidson,

recent

and, Duke fans are forecasted a splendid
game for Monday night.
Two nights later, on February 12, the

Wake Forest -five will be met at Davidson.
Little is known of the visitors, except that,
as vet, they have not won a Big Five con-
test, and will be fighting hard to slip one
over on the Wildcats to upset the dope.

Gridmen Presented
Sweaters In Chapel

In chapel on the morning of January 31,
Bruce Peabody, President of the Freshman
Class, presented the varsity football letter
men with sweaters. This has been the custom
for several years, but heretofore it has been
an undercover activity—so to speak—for
there was no public presentation or announce-
ment made thereof. But this time it was
different. The gifts were presented before
the entire student body, with the statement
that “this is an evidence of the loyalty and
a demonstration of their appreciation cf the
efforts of the football men.” As the name of
each letter man was called out by the Fesh-
man president, he went forward to -eceive
his gift amid the applause of the assembled
student body. It was impressive.

Besides those who received the gifts in
person were Borneo Baker, E. Close, and
Wilbur Milton who were not present. The
followingmen received sweaters: Don King,
Tom Brohard, Walter Fraley, Bill Parrish,
Joe McCall, Murray Christian, Thad Brock,
Steve Brown, Jim Proctor, Ledyard De-
Camp, Lad Mills, Doc Mathis, Hub Coving-
ton, Bud Raker, Bill Mason.
