THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 22, 1930

Fifteen Davidson Boys
Finish at Seminaries

Most of Them Already Have Pas-
torates—Three Will Continue
Their Studies

Fifteen Davidson alumni this year com-
pleted their seminary work in the three the-
ological training institutions located in the
South, and the majority of them have al-
ready obtained pastorates and started their
work, Three of them are planning to con-
tinue their studies next fall, having won fel-
lowships as a result of their excellent work
during the past four years.

C. R. McCarty, '26, was the only David-
son alumnus graduating from Columbia
Theological Seminary, and he will be lo-
cated at Highlands, N. C. L. V. McPherson,
’28, was the only one finishing at Louisville
Theological Seminary. He will be located at
Keystville, Mo.

Rev. D. H. Ogden, ’23, and/Rev. A. H.
Hollingsworth, Jr., ’26, were/ doing post-
graduate work at Union Seminary, Rich-
mond, Va., the past year, but have ac-
cepted pastorates. The former will be located
at Pikeville, Ky., and Mr. Hollingsworth
will be at Georgetown, Ky.

W. A. Christian, Jr., ’'27; L. M. Mc-
Cutchen, ’27, and R. S. Wilson, ’27, all
graduates of Union this May, have been
awarded fellowships. It is understood that
Mr. Christian will study in, Scotland next
fall, and it is presumed that the other two
will return to Union Seminary. Mr. Chris-
tian is a Salem Fellow; Mr. McCutchen

_ is a Hoge Fellow, and Mr. Wilson won the
“Charles D, Larus fellowship.

W. P. Brown, '23, will be pastor at Eden-
ton, N. C.; J..W. Crinkley, ’27, is temporar-
ily located at his home in Raleigh; T. A.
Guiton, '25, is pastor of four churches near
Concord, Va.; W. I. Howell, Jr., ’26, will
be an evangelist at Nitro and Bell, W. Va.;
R. B. McQueen, '27, will be pastor at Tim-
monsville and Lamar, S. C.; G. R. Sims,
’27, will be assistant pastor at Westminster
Presbyterian Church, St. Louis, Mo.; E. D.
Witherspoon, ’27, will be at Winchester,
Va., and John W. Foster, ’12, will be 1lo-
cated at Cooleemee, N. C.

Odds and Ends

Twenty Davidson alumni notified the al-
umni secretary Monday that they are to be
here for commencement, and in this number
seventeen classes were represented and five
different states. During the past several days
many other notices have been received, but
the tabulations could not be made Monday
night when The Davidsonian went to press.
Generally there are over 50 different classes
with representatives at Davidson during the
commencement period, and about a dozen
states represented. States already on the list
are North and South Carolina, Virginia,
Georgia, and West Virginia.

Davidson alumni attending the General
Assembly of the Southern Presbyterian
Church at Charlottesville, Va., the latter
part of this week and several days of next
week, are going to meet together Monday
at noon, when a representative from the
college will be there to talk with them. The
plans are to have the Davidson alumni
grouped at a separate table, and for them to
remain after the other delegates have re-
tired. This was done last spring on Mon-
day, after a night session, and although the
hour was late, over 30 Davidson men met
together. The convenience of the time this
year, however, should make the group

" larger.

McGaddie is the meanest Scotchman I
ever saw. f

‘How come?

He makes his children catch their rubber
balls on the first bounce.

Alumni Marriages

Clark-Everett
Hollingsworth-Everett

A double wedding in which two Davidson
alumni were the bridegrooms occurred in
Atlanta, Ga., May 9, when Rev. Fitzhugh
Clarke, ’22, was married to Miss Willie
Everett, and Rev. Hayden Hollingsworth,
'26, was married to Miss Merris Everett.

Mr. Clarke graduated from Davidson in
1922, and later attended Union Theological
Seminary, from which institution he gradu-
ated in 1929. Since then he has been located
at Williamsville, Va., where he is pastor of
the Presbyterian Church in that city.

Mr. Hollingsworth was graduated from
Davidson in 1926, and finished his theological
work at Union Seminary, Richmond, in 1929,
He returned for additional study this past
year, having been awarded a fellowship. He
will be pastor of the First Presbyterian
Church at Georgetown, Ky., after June 1.

Births

Mr. J. W. Moore, 12, and Mrs. Moore,
of Winston-Salem, announce the birth of a
daughter, Marjory McAlpin, on May 2.
Mr. E. A. O'Neal, Jr., ’26, and Mrs.
O'Neal, of Anniston, Ala., announce the
birth of a daughter on May 19,

Engagements

Lasater-Irvin

Mr. and Mrs. R. E. Lasater, of Winston-
Salem, announce the engagement of their
daughter, Virginia, to George Lee Irvin, Jr.,
also of Winston-Salem, the marriage to take
place Saturday evening, May 24.

Mr. Irvin was in the class of 1924, and
since leaving Davidson he has been located
in Winston-Salem. He is connected with the
Smith-Phillips Lumber Company.

Best-McSwain

Mr. and Mrs. D. E. Best, of Warsaw, an-
nounce the engagement of their daughter,
Lewellyn, to Gordon Henry MéSwain, of
Arcadia, Fla., the marriage to take place on
Juné 12.

Mr. McSwain was graduated from David-
son in the class of 1928, and since that time
he has been attending Harvard Medical

School. He will have an additional year

when he leaves Cambridge in June.

GRIDIRON PROSPETS

(Continued from page 3)

be back, and added to these will be Skinny
Pierce, Barrier and Brooks from the Wild-
kittens. There will be plenty of competition
for these ends, with Brock having one of
them a practical certainty. The other can
be shifted to meet the type of offense needed.
Skinny Pierce can probably catch passes bet-
ter than any man on either team, and. will
see plenty of service for that reason. Proc-
tor and Brown will both see service in prac-
tically every game.

In the center of the line there will be more
weight and reserve strength than for sev-
eral years, in spite of the fact that more
seniors were there than anywhere else. Bud
Raker and Hub Covington, last year’s tackles
and Doc Mathis and Bill Mason, veterans
at guard and center, respectively, will form
a nucleus, the gaps of which must be filled
in by several likely looking squadmen, or
by sophomores.

Mullins, McFayden and Wagner at tackle,

|| Alumni Are Now Voting

By Mail for Trustees

Seven Men Were Nominated by the
Alumni Council—Four Are to be
Elected

Davidson College alumni this week started
balloting on the alumni trustees who are
to be elected at commencement when the
General Alumni Association meets in an-
nual session following the luncheon. Seven
men were nominated by the Alumni Coun-
cil at its recent meeting here, three of whom
are to be elected for four-year terms, and
on to fill the unexpired term of Dr. Walter
L. Lingle, ’92, now President of Davidson.

Ballots were mailed out to every David-
son alumnus Tuesday and Wednesday, and
today the alumni started returning them. Ac-
cording to tabulations of the past two years
over 400 alumni will express their choices,
and the Alumni Council will decide on the
night preceding the meeting which ones will
be placed on the final ballot for voting at
the regular meeting. The three highest will
be chosen for four years, and the other one
will serve until 1932.

Alumni trustees renominated by the Coun-
cil were J, A. Cannon, '04, Concord; J. Lee
Robinson, Gastonia, and W. J. Roddey, Rock
Hill. The additional names presented to the
alumni were W. T. Bailey, 06, Greenwood,
S. C.; W. S. Royster, '99, Norfolk, Va.;
W. A. Watt, '01, Thomasville, Ga., and C.
R. Wilcox, ’11, Rome, Ga. Information was
furnished the alumni about each man, to
assist them in casting their votes.

Gregory, Mackerell, Mauze, Little and Og-
den at guard, and Gardner at center were
the cream of the freshman squad at those
positions. From last year’s squad, Boyle,
Conway, Kuykendall, and a number of other
juniors and seniors will also have to be
taken into consideration when thé final pick
is made. This list of men contains more
heavy, good men than have been out for these
line posts in a long time.

The backfield burden will again rest main-
ly on the shoulders of about a half-dozen
men, it looks like. For graduation takes
three backs, and no real sensational ball-
toters are coming up from Coach Laird’s
charges. Captain Walter Fraley, Joe Mc-
Call, and Don King carried the ball a ma-
jority of times last year, and stand an in-
side chance of being regulars again. Goody-
koontz,, who has been deprived of almost
certain letters by injuries for two years,
should come through in his senior year,
and if he does, will do much to fill the ab-
sence of Red Parrish.

Three or four freshmen showed up nicely
during spring practice, but not one of them
seems to be the all-around football player at
this time that is really the joy of a coach's
heart. Mills’ passing will get him into sey-
eral games; Fleagle has the speed but not
the weight of Joe McCall and should also
play in a number of the contests; Clarke
looked good at times during spring train-
ing.

Summing up, there should be little change
in ends, but plenty of competition for the
positions; the center of the line—tackles,
guards, and* centers—may have more than
one or two sophomores in its make-up; the
backfield should be about the same as last
year’s, but still lacking in weight. There will
be more reserve strength in every position
than in several years, and the line from end
to end, especially from tackle to tackle,
should average from five to ten pounds more

than last year.

Stationery
Books
Magazines

_ Superior Soda Service __
W.S. HENDERSON

Fountain Pens
Felt Goods
Sundries

Alumni Personal Mention

During the past two weeks alumni visitors
at Davidson have included Rev. H. F. Beaty,
‘03, Mooresville; Rev. D. H. Ogden, ’23,
who will be located at Pikeville, Ky., after
June 1; D. G. Wilson, ’26, Greensboro;
Clisby DuBose, ’28, with headquarters in
New York; R. F. Sloop,-’29,. Mooresville ;
W. E. Phifer, Jr., '29, Port Jervis, N. Y.;
J. A. Alexander, ’29, Stony Point; J. H.
Caligan, '27, Wadesboro; Rev. Wade H.
Allison, Jr., ’26, Leaksville; T. M. Alex
ander, '29, and Geo., A. Batte, Jr., '27, both
of Concord; M. C. McQueen, ’29, Little
Rock, S. C.; Julian Lake, ’28, Atlanta, Ga.;
Malcolm Murchison, '28, Bunkie, La.; V. S.
Broyles, '27,. Meridian, Miss.; Lacy McAI-
ister, ’20, Greensboro; M. D. Field, ’24,
Monroe; C. R. Anderson, ’27, St. Peters-
burg, Fla.; and W. A. Patterson, ’25, Little-
ton. (This does not include any of the many
alumni who attended the Duke-Davidson
baseball game.

J. R. Gudger, '25, who completes his schol-
astic work at the, Medical College of Vir-
ginia on June 3, has received an appoint-
ment to the Henry, Ford Hospital at De-
troit, Mich.

Major Robert Hill, '10, now chief of
orthopedic surgeons at the Walter Reed Hos-
pital in Washington, D. C., will soon be
transferred to Fort Riley, Kans., after com-
pleting his four years in Washington.

Watt McCain, '24, who has been connect-
ed with the Mathieson Alkali Works in
New York, has been transferred to the Chi-
cago office of this same concern, and will be
at 310 S. Michigan Ave..

Paul P. Brown, '03, of Raleigh, has again
been elected secretary of the North Carolina
Bankers’ Association. He has held this po-
sition for many years.

Harry B. Price, '25, of New York, last
week sent the alumni office a feature article
from The New York Evening Post about
C. R. (Pat) Crawford, ’23, who is with the
New York Giants. Mr. Crawford has, been
the subject of much sport comment lately,
since he has filled a position at second base.

Among the Davidson alumni who have
recently accepted invitations to speak at
commencements are Rev. Alexander Sprunt,
D.D., '75, of Charleston, S. C., who will
deliver the baccalaureate sermon at Peace
Institute on May 25, and Prof. R. C. Deal,
‘01, of East Carolina Teachers College,
Greenville, N. C., who will give the bac-
calaureate sermon to the graduates of Smith-
field High School.

H. E. Fries, ’28, of Winston-Salem, “has
been re-elected president and general man-

ager of the Winston-Salem Southbound

Railway.

Col. A. L. Gaston, '96, of Chester, S. C.,
was chairman of the Chester County Demo-
cratic Convention.

In a recent issue of The Asheville Times,
a special section was devoted to Henderson-
ville. Among the leading citizens whose pho-
tographs were used was Fred Justus, ’23,
who is president of the Rotary Club at Hen-
dersonville.

R. M. Stephenson, ’28, who completes his
two-year course at Harvard Business School
in June, has a position with the Western
Electric Company, and will be temporarily
located at 195 Broadway, N. Y. J..S. McAlis-
ter, ’28, will be with the Bank of New York
and Trust Co., and B. F. Martin, ’28, has
a position with the American Telephone and
Telegraph Company.

Dr. L. W. Kornegay, ’07, is vice-presi-
dent of the Rocky Mount Medical Society.

Prof. F. L. Blythe, '07, who ‘is studying
in Spain this year, writes that he will sail
from Gibraltar on June 27, and after land-
ing in New York July 5, he will go di-
rectly to Middlebury College in Vermont to
continue his study. He expects to reach Da-
vidson around September 1.

New Addresses

J. F. Milhous, ’25, 404 Rhodes-Haverty
Bldg., Atlanta, Ga.

Rev. Eugene Alexander, '12, Manchester.

R. H. Adams, ’04, Fort Pierce, Fla.

Rev. A. C. Ray, ’25, 1661 N. Claiborne
Ave., New Orleans, Ia.

Rev. H. F. Beaty, '03, Mooresville.

Dr. J. R. Boswell, 19, U. S. Veterans
Hospital, Alexandria, La.

Dr. E. L. Linfield, 718, U. S. Veterans
Hospital, Fort Bayard, N. Mex.

W. L. Lingle, Jr., ’28, 51 East Ninth St.,
New York, N. Y.

Rev. D. W. Mclver, '06, 222 Walnut St.,
Jeffersonville, Ind.

W. Latta Law,
Moorestown, N. J.

C. B. DuBose, '28, College Dept., Harper
& Bros., 49 EF. 33rd St., New York, N. Y.

16, 133 E. Main St.,

Teacher—How is it you were not at school
yesterday, Johnny?

Johnny—Please, sir, when I was coming
to school I saw a steam roller.

Teacher—Well, what about it?

Johnny—A man tapped me on the shoul-
der and said, “Mind that steam roller, boy.”
And I stood minding it all afternoon.

S°E°N*1°O:: RS
NOW IS THE TIME TO HAVE YOUR EN-
GRAVED CARDS MADE. SEE ME.

Best Quality and Prices
Any type of'Printing

ERNEST H. McCALL
108 Watts

Representing

STANDARD PRINTING co.
Charlotte, N. C.

®

