THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 9, 1930

Dr. Henry Louis Smith, 1881 Davidson™
Graduate, Retires From Educational

Field After 49 Years of Active Work

Prominent Southern Educator Has
Had Brilliant Career—Is
Internationally Known
Figure

Lengthy news dispatches last week told of
the retirement of Dr. Henry Louis Smith, of
the 1881 class at Davidson College, as an
active participant in the educational life of
the south, and throughout the story runs the
pre-eminent characteristic of self-denial
which this great southern educator practiced
in order that he might contribute to the
welfare of young manhood.

Doctor Smith did considerable reminiscing
in the news dispathch that received wide pub-
licity throughout the southern states, and
told of the first alleged picture made by

X-ray in the United States, which picture
was made at Davidson College. The official
record says that it was. made at Davidson
on Monday, January 13, 1896, but unoffi-
cially, according to Doctor. Smith and other
sources of information, a group of students
made a picture on the Sunday night preced-
ing.

Part of the dispatch is given below, with
the omission of the account about the first
X-ray picture, a story which is already
familiar to Davidson alumni through dis-
patches sent out several years ago:

Lexington, Va., December 31.—After 49
years as college teacher and university head,
Dr. Henry Louis Smith, president of Wash-
ington and Lee University here, closed his
office door today for the last time. His resig-
nation, tendered in October, 1928, but defer-
red at the trustees’ request until the close of
this calendar year, becomes effective tonight.

Tomorrow he will leave with his family
for Greensboro, N. C., he explains with an
eager gleam in his eyes, “to begin at the age
of 70 a full-time business career and to serve
education as lecturer and writer less fettered
than one must inevitably be as head of’an
institution.” * * *

Through the story of his life runs a thread
of self-denial, a drama of persistent, periodic
refusal of business offers involving high exe-
cutive position, large salaries, thousands of
dollars worth of stock, almost certain wealth
and power. ‘

Doctor Smith, small of stature, white
haired, almost electric with energy and en-
thusiasm, looked steadily across his desk:

“I have stayed in teaching,” he said, “‘be-
cause I believed it to be the most useful way
I could serve. Now it means I shall have to

Personal Notes

Dr. R. U. Zimmerman, ’02, of Lexington,
has been eltced president of the Davidson
County Medical Society.

Dr. R. S, Cromartie, ’95, has been chosen
as chairman of the Bladen County Demo-
cratic Executive Committee.

Friends will regret to learn of the death
of Mrs. W. I. Howell, mother of W. I.
Howell, Jr., '27, student at Union Theo-
logical Seminary; of Mrs. Anne Reid
Ratchford, wife of B. U. Ratchford, ’26,
of Duke University; of P. W: Hand, fath-
er of S. J. Hand, ’20, of Lowell; and of
George W. Kugler, brother of F. C*Ktg-
ler, '26; J. R. Kugler, '28, and E. B.
Kugler, ’31.

Dr. C. B, Sanders, '22, has been pro-
moted to an associate professorship in
the department of pathology at the Uni-
versity of Texas at Galveston. His address
is 1301 Avenue J.

Zeb A. Morris, Jr., ’25, of Concord, has
ben elected 1930 president of the Kiwanis
Club in that city.

Fred L. Smyre, 1900, is vice-president
of the Gastonia Chamber of Commerce.

Coach Robert A. Fetzer, ’07, of the Uni-
versity of North Carolina, was named a
member of the track and field rules com-
mittee of the National Collegiate Ath-
letic Association at its recent annual con-
vention in New York.

Ruffner Campbell, 10, of Asheville, is a
stockholder in the new corporation, Com-
mercial Bond and Mortgage Company,
with an authoried capital stock of '$1,-
000,000.

|

manage my orchards in North Carolina; I
shall have to sell what I write. But I should
make the same decisions again.”

Doctor Smith came to Washington and
Lee as president in 1912, He was 53 years
old, had been president of Davidson College
in’ North Carolina for 11 years, had won a
national reputation as physicist and pioneer
in work with the Roentgen ray and as an
eloquent speaker. His undergraduate work
he did at Davidson college, earning the A.B.
and M.A. degrees. He was graduated summa
cum laude, and elected to Phi Beta Kappa,
highest scholastic honor, and Phi Delta
Theta, social fraternity.

He began teaching as principal of Selma
Academy, Selma, N. C., in 1881. After five
years there, Davidson College called him
back as professor of Physics and Astronomy.
He obtained a leave of absence, secured his
Ph.D. degree from the University of Vir-
ginia in 1890, and returned to Davidson col-
lege.as head of the physics: department.

Here in November and December, 1895,
he was teaching freshmen the phenomenon
of the Crooks tube, and the English discov-
ery of what was called “the fourth state of
matter,” a presumed addition to solids, li-
quids, and gases. During the holidays Roent-
gen in Germany announced his marvelous
discovery that the X-ray would pass through
the sides of the Crooks tube and blacken a
photographic plate..

I

Eat
LANCE’S

ts

In 1906 for his services in physics and for
his distinguished lecturing on scientific and
educational subjects, Doctor Smith received
the LL.D. degree from the University of
North Carolina. Five years before this honor,
he had become president of Davidson Col-
lege. During his administrative tenure there,
he doubled the endowment, trebled the in-
come, buildings, equipment, and student en-
rollment.

In 1904, a cotton mill magnate offered him
the position of executive secretary of a com-
pany which owned 14 mills. He was told he
might name his own salary, and receive a
percentage of the company’s profits. This he
refused on the ground that‘it would take him
away from teaching. Six months later, he
was invited to appear -before the directors
of The Charlotte Observer. Here he was
offered the editor-in-chiefship of that news-
paper's policies, advertising and editorial.
This also he declined, though the salary
stipulated was two and a half times what
he was getting as president of Davidson
College.

Not long after these two offers, the aca-
demic calm of his mind was again assailed
by the information that he had been formally
elected vice-president of the entire circle of
Pilot Insurance Companies in North Caro-
lina. A large block of stock was offered as
a gift to bind the contract, and the income

assured was five times his remuneration as
college president.

“Attractive, complimentary,” Doctor Smith
agreed, “but it takes me away from young
men who will be citizens and fathers of other
citizens. I believe I help young men. I would
be selling them for my own gain. I can’t do
it.”

“You'll be in charge of more agents who
insure lives than you have college students,”
they told him.

But the offer was refused.

At Washington and Lee business offers
still came, and still were refused—the largest
of them all came in 1924 when President
Smith was in the midst of an endowment
campaign.

In his 17 years at Washington and Lee,
Doctor Smith has raised the scholastic
standards of the institution, secured $1,500,-
000 in additional endowment and. pledges to
the endowment, abolished hazing at the uni-
versity, erected the Doremus gymnasium,
the chemistry building, Graham dormitory,
seven faculty houses on the campus and the
biology wing on Washington College, added
departments of study, modernized the curri-
culum, re-established the department of jour-
nalism which General Lee began in 1869 as
the first collegiate training for newspaper

work in the world, and inaugurated a fra-

ternity quadrangle building program.

With the faculty increased, higher salaries
paid, entrance requirements” tightened, sys-
tems of retirement allowances and a faculty
life insurance plan adopted, Washington and
Lee now is considered by educational rating
authorities one of the distinguished universi-
ties of the country.

Last week, at the final assembly over
which President Smith would preside, the
student body presented him with’a handsome
watch. Lewis F. Powell, Jr., of Richmond,
Va., student president, presenting the gift,
said:

“President Smith, your students and your
colleagues consider you the greatest leader
Washington and Lee has had with the one
exception of General Lee.”

It was the highest encomium a southerner
could pay.

Births

Born to A. G. Robinson, Jr., ’20, and Mrs.
Robinson, ‘of Thomasville, Ga., a son, Bryant
Wright, of December 11.

Born to Rev. J. Lee McLean, ’24, and
Mrs. McLean, of Fairmont, N. C., twins, a
boy and a girl, in December.

ARE PLEASANT
PUNCTUATION
MARKS

CAMELS

What with one thing and another g&

A
each day brings its sequence of moods and

changes of activity g Make Camels your

connecting links g or pleasant interruptions

between this and that g Each freshly-lighted

Camel means a dash of pleasure g a period

of pure enjoyment g Punctuate your day

g by pausing now and then g for a Camel!

The extra measure of pleasure in every Camel Cigarette
comes from the expert blending of the choicest tobaccos
grown. You'll find the fragrance of Camels always pleas-

| ant, indoors and out. . . and their mellow-mildness never
‘tires the taste . . . never leaves an unpleasant after-taste.

Reynolds Tobacco
*Salem, N. C.

© 1930, R. J.
Cc . Wi
