4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 13, 1930

——

Four Wildkittens Show

Up Well at S.I.C. Meet
At University Saturday

Track Men Schedule Difficult Meets
For 1930 Season

Inter-Class Meet

Continuing the intra-mural sports,
which have been in progress for the
past several months, an inter-class
track meet will be held tomorrow
afternoon.

PROSPECTS ARE GOOD

First Clash Will be Here With Elon |
Freshmen Cinder Men
March 26

Ata meeting of the Southern Conference
Indoor. Track teams, held on Saturday,
March 8, in the University of North Caro-
lina gymnasium, the “Tin. Can,” Davidson
was represented by four freshmen, all of
whom showed up well. Alex Little won
third place in the 60-yard high hurdles,
while Bob McCallie placed fifth. In the
60-yard dash Fleagle won his heat in the
semi-finals, but did not place in the finals.
Alex Earle placed seventh in the three
quarter mile run.

The following Freshman meets have
been scheduled: On March 26, Davidson
will oppose Elon Fresh at Davidson. The
strength of the invaders is unknown, but
due to the fact that they are coached by
“Hardrock” Simpson, who competed in
C. C. Pile’s notable Bunion Derby, they
are looked upon with some premonitions.
April 5, will witness a joint meet between
Davidson and Wofford varsity, and Dav-
idson and Wofford Freshman teams—this
also to be held at the Wildcats’ lair. The
New Hanover High team of Wilmington,
N. C., will journey to Davidson on April
12. This is expected to be one of the most
formidable foes of the year. It is possible
that meets may be held with Catawba
College, R. J. Reynolds High, of Winston-
Salem, N. C., and Greensboro High. Noth-
ing definite has been arranged, however,
concerning these last three meets.

The Davidson Freshmen will. probably
hold one meet on foreign territory, al-
though no definite plans have as yet been
made. Prospects are for a very successful
season this spring. Thé Freshmen are
showing better form this year than pre-
viously and much is to be expected of

Students of all classes are eligible
for competition, and as many as
possible are urged to compete. The
events will include all of the events
of a regular track meet, individual
prizes being awarded for excellence
in the several events.

Capt. Norton G. Pritchett, athletic
director, will be in charge of the
meet.

New Golfing Rules
Given To Players

Davidson College Golf Club

The Privileges of the Course are Ex-
tended to the Following

1. All students of Davidson College who
observe the rules of the course are elig-
ible on the basis of fees already paid to
the College Treasurer.

2, All members of the Davidson College
faculty, and administrative forces, resi-
dents of the town of Davidson, are elig-
ible provided the annual fee of $5.00 is
paid to the Treasurer of the College.

3. Complimentary privileges are extend-
ed all ladies connected with the College.

4. Residents of surrounding communi-
ties are eligible, their application being
subject to the approval of the committee.
Fee of $10.00 to be paid to the Treasurer
of Davidson College.

5. Guest privileges will be extended as
follows: Students, faculty, and local mem-
bers may obtain cards for guests at the
rate of 25 cents per day, other members
at the rate of 50 cents. per day.

Rules of the Course
1, Solo players have no rights and shall

them. They seem to show up better in
the sprints and short runs than elsewhere. |

Faculty Team Loses |
To Varsity Golfers

Varsity Try-Outs Held at Charlotte
Country Club

A team composed of Davidson students
and led by Captain Jack Pepper, defeated
a group of golfers representing the college
faculty 13 to 5, in a match held last Mon-
day afternoon on the college golf course.

The teams played 18 holes, counting one
point for each nine holes, and one point
for the 18 holes, in individual and team
play.

Pepper defeated Dr. G. B. Watts 16 up
and 5 to play, Dr. H. M. Moffett won over
W. Lewis Hart 1 up, R. D. Croom beat
Prof. H, E. Fulcher 6 up and 5 to go, and
Dr. Walter L, Lingle was victorious over
N. C. Hodgin 4 up and 3 to play.

In the foursome play Pepper and Hart
won over Drs. Moffett and Watts 6 up
and 4 to go, while Croom and Hodgin de-
feated Dr. Lingle and Proféssor Fulcher
4 up and 2 to go.

Scores for the two rounds were as fol-
lows: Pepper 78, Croom 88, Dr. Watts 90,
Dr. Moffett and Hart 93, Dr. Lingle 94,
Professor Fulcher 102 and Hodgin 107:
The match was played against a strong
wind and in cold weather, which partly
accounts for the high scores.

The try-outs for the Davidson College
golf team were held at the Charlotte
Country Club Wednesday afternoon, and
its members were selected by virtue of
the fact that they made the lowest scores
in 36 holes, medal play. The names of the
successful candidates have not been di-
vulged.

According to Captain Pepper, arrange-
ments are being made for matches with
Georgia Tech, University of Georgia, Og-
lethorpe and Furman, all to be played on
-—-a southern trip to be made this spring.

Plans have also been completed for state
' matches with Carolina, Duke, N. C. State

and Wake Forest, to be played on their
. respective courses, and the return engage-

ments to be held in Charlotte. The dates
for this tentative schedule have not been
established as yet.

A Davidson team will also probably be
entered_in the Intercollegiate Golf Tour-
nament to be held at Sedgefield on the
26th of April.

always give way to matches.

2. Faster moving groups have the right
to go through slower moving groups, who
are to invite them to play through.

3. Groups without full complement of
clubs shall not hold other groups.

4. Cutting in front of other players is
forbidden.

5. Players taking the short course shall
give way to those playing the entire
course.

6. Putting practice on any green is for-
bidden when:a match is approaching the
green.

7. Proper shoes must be used. No shoes,
such as high heeled shoes, baseball, track,
or football shoes, which will harm the
greens, are allowed.

8. No playing is allowed on days when
sign “Course Closed” is displayed at first
tee.

9. Every precaution must be taken to
avoid hitting players ahead. No shots may
be taken. without calling “Fore” and
waiting until others are out range.

Rules for Caddies

1, Caddies are to keep off course at all
times unless employed.

2. Caddie are not allowed on the greens,
but shall stand on the edge until match is
ready to proceed.

3. Caddies are forbidden to use clubs on
the course.

4. Any member of the golf committee
may invite caddy or groups of caddies to
accompany him in order to hunt for. lost
balls.

Non-observance of any of the above
rules is punishable by withdrawal of priv-
ileges, penalty to be in effect until rein-
statement is given by committee.

H. E, Fulcher, Chairman.
H. M. Moffatt.
J. K. Pepper, Jr.
| G. W. Watts.
W. L. Lingle.

‘Duke’ Downs ‘Carolina’ |
In Spring Practice Tilt |

In The World Of Music

of Wildcat Grid Squad

Blue Devils Win Close Victory from
F rom Tar Heels, 6-0 |

FAVORABLE WEATHER |

BEETHOVEN

By Horace Ervin

(Continued from last week)
Beethoven's whole life was one of sad-

Losers Threaten But Are Stopped |ness. Not only ever increasing deafness put
on Two-Yard Line; Many | difficulty in love affairs, in which he was
Players Show Form jnever successful, saddened him. What-
OO lever proposals he made were rejected,

Before a shivering crowd estimated at |and at one time he was jilted by an aia
250, the Duke Blue Devils defeated the countess. Pock-marked, ugly, and intol-
Carolina Tar Heels in the first game of erant of society, Beethoven became a man

the Big Three Davidson conference by a Of sorrows and acquainted with grief, and
ave his whole life to his art.

6 to 0 score. The game was closely played | 8% — :
from whistle to whistle, providing many! He could not stand the vanities of
thrills for the crowd of visitors that had | nobility. He did not respect it. Once when
come for the Sophomore week-end. he was walking in the street with his
friend, the poet Goethe, the royal carriage

The only threat of the first quarter passed, The throngs, of course, bowed as
came when Duke blocked ’a Carolina punt it passed, and so did Goethe; but Beetho-

on about the 20 yard line, after Mills had |
placed a punt deep into Carolina territory.

the king and the queen nodded to him
Mills got off many long punts and usually | When home in his dark room he would
got the advantage of Bradshaw who |

work unceasingly on his compositions.
punted for Carolina. /And he would sit down at the piano to
The threat that decided the game came Play what he had written—but as his
at the end of the third quarter when {deafness increased, he had to bank an
Duke had advanced the ball to the 20- | keys, very often striking dissonant chords,
while children stared in at the doorway.
'Bending his head lower to the keyboard
came a short pass to the flect footed Mc- | he would st Stee bang, and eet
Call, who dashed for the goal, being again, and again, but to no avail, for ;
caught on the 3-yard line. McQueen hit | would throw his arms above his head anc
the line but failed. King took a plunge and cry out in despair. !He could Soe
missed, leaving the ball on the two-yard stand why he of all eee shou eine
line at the beginning of the fourth quar- deaf. It seemed like Fate SLNSSTNS a Ce
ter. McQueen took two more plunges but face. He wrote to a friend that it made
missed since the Carolina line was like a es to think of such a tragic ab-
stone wall. Bradshaw punted short and | SUrCITY. Shee ; :
the ball was soon reainae to the three-| With the full realization’ of his te
yard line where McQueen took the ball "ess comes a final Heel pneton to vs oh
Mill’s kick for goal was blown | the consecration of his life to music.
ithis while he undergoes a spiritual de-
velopment during which he is climbing
McQueen and King starred for the Blue | greater heights. He has left the earth and
Devils showing mid-season form, while /mundane art to commune with the gods.
Bradshaw showed up well for Carolina.|This communion he translates to us in

ven stood there, erect and defiant, while

yard line by a series of end runs and off
tackle plays by McQueen and King. Then

across,
wide.

before had revealed, and one might
imagine Beethoven saying, “Behold! I
show you a mystery.” Toward the close
of his life he never heard a note of what ,
he composed. Perhaps it is better that the
character of his music was never brought
to human level by imperfections of the
human ear, but came straight and un-
tainted from a noble soul.

Knowing Beethoven’s life adds greatly
to appreciation of his music. Thus we are
helped to understand that a certain love
affair in his life motivated his Fourth
Symphony, the tragedy of life his Fifth, a
profound feeling of sadness his “Moon-
light” Sonata, and so on. Knowing, too,
that he was constantly harassed by finan-
cial difficulties, in that his subsidizers fell
short of payment to him, and that it was
impossible for him to get along with his
servants for very long reveal that his
domestic life was one of unhappiness. He
struggled hard to rescue’ his nephew
from the influence of a profligate mother
and sent the boy to school. His brothers
misunderstood him, perhaps because he
was temperamental and impatient, until
his will was disclosed, wherein he ex-
pressed his affection for them.

He was an ardent admirer of Napoleon
and inscribed his “Eroica” Symphony to
him, thinking that the emperor was the
great liberator of the human race; but
when he perceived that Napoleon’s plan
was to set up a world empire under his
own rulership, Beethoven in a rage tore
off the inscription.

He is held the greatest instrumental
composer of all time, and his piano works
are highly praised. His greatest works
are his late string quartets, nine sym-
phonies, Missa Solemnis, and various
sonatas. The greatest of these were writ-
teri after his deafness had commenced. .

His development, as we have mentioned,
was constant; his greatest works came at

creators of such advertisements since they
are more capable of writing ads that

a |; would attract young men, because of
(Continued from page 1) |their thorough acquaintance with David-
penses, so that more could be devoted to|son student life. The ads may be very
God. “The work of the Church is a noble | brief. However, all ads must be in by
one, and our religious pecuniary affairs | April 1. The college urges all students to

DR. LINGLE TALKS

should not be governed simply by the tithe. | compete.
We should probably be better off if it were '

the end of his life; there was no after-
Raker played a good game in the line. music. math. And so he could look back upon
The starting lineup was: One cannot help believing that his life, a constant ascent to higher peaks,
“Caroli Beethoven must have been divinely in-|and be assured that it was triumphant. It
puns meee spired, for his music is surely the lan-|js said of him on his death bed that his
RS att nad guage of the angels. It holds a grandeur dying words were, “Plaudite, amici,
W. Rk %. Rake and sublimity which human pen never] comedia finita est.”
AUN Chee cect eee oS aker
ae i i ws) hi the table, Rat!
Batitienerce sos ce eee sil aes Ogden Prizes To Be Given ‘: eee reac ae paces i
wS For Advertisements |‘2¥°"! Yo" 2 tongue?” :
Howard: 22.00 sen ee McConnell | Yes, sir, but my arm is longer.
(C;, TER
i ‘Wi Y u y is a kis he telephone like
Currie -.----.----.--------------- Wilson| pr, Walter L. Lingle announced re- Why is a Lat) QUSE Oe Ue SP UOHE
L. G. lcently that the administration would |* dea fii Gae dean einer Ga
H | ts ° s It, 4 , :
CONAN ee Ross jaward any selected advertisement for use fait ver See he
L. T. lin advertising Davidson College with five|°~ ~
BROOK Soe s sar ee eee Cannon | : Pee : : facult Ser ;
ies ‘dollars, Any Davidson student OURS Ale Thaw nicn CMR del The renter’ hing
eh iod {member is eligible to submit any number ; oii
BRAURNAW esc eee Mills |of ads. These .ads according to Presj-|2bout George Washington!
O. B ee haan ea care . : Johnny: “His memory. They erected a
Ae |dent Lingle are limited to only five hun- bates eee
Clark -.------------------- Goodykoontz | dred words. From those handed in, the | ™° oo
R. H. college will select about twenty, which Care See
McFee '..---------------------- McQueen they deem worthy of publication to be
Et L. H. : _ |used mostly in church papers or religious§ STOP
Fraley Sica as PERCE Ste King | magazines. D na COUGH
F. B. COLD an ,
DeCamp, Referee; Mills, Umpire;| The college feels, said Doctor Lingle, take
Christian, Time Keeper. that the students would be the best

Codex

Phe “QUICK RELIEF” Cold Remedy for
College Studente, cold bya Colles Student

YOUR JRUGGISI |
HAS COI DEX ‘

Jim Galloway
U. AS.C..

See ere rota ——

a law that we give according to our incomes. |
There was never a time when there was |
such a need of the Lord’s cause. Then let |
us use our own judgment in giving, and we
will know that we have had the part in the |
uplifting of the world.”

“T heard a new one the other day. Did |
I tell it to you?”

“Is it funny?”

“Yes,” -

“Phen you haven't.”

Victor, Brunswick and
ing at Reduced Prices

RECORD CLEARANCE SALE

75c Records, 3 for $1.00
W.S. HENDERSON :

Columbia Records go-

until stock is reduced.

>» eB N°] 'O°R:S
NOW IS THE TIME TO HAVE YOUR EN-
GRAVED CARDS MADE. SEE ME.
Best Quality and Prices
Any type of Printing

ERNEST H. McCALL
108 Watts

Representing

STANDARD PRINTING CO.
Charlotte, N. C.

