he Davidsonian ~*

OOST
DR. KIRK BARIUM SPRINGS
“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”
Volume XVIII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 4, 1930

No. 12

Dr. Sikes Addresses Phi
Beta Kappa Members in

Formal Initiation Here

Five Students, Three Alumni and
One Faculty Member Initiated
Into North Carolina Gamma
Chapter

The statement that “all cotton mills, or
all farmers, deserve a fair profit” sounds
good, but is it not truer to say that “Some
do and some don’t”? asked Dr. E. W. Sikes,
president of Clemson College, in speaking
at the annual initiation of the North Caro-
lina Gamma chapter of Phi Beta Kappa.
“Is it not better to say,” continued Dr. Sikes,
“that it depends upon the mill, and upon the
management, foresight and skill?”

Dr. Sikes took as his subject, “Progress
and Poverty.” He brought. out the fact that
although America had made much progress,
the bread lines in our cities are now longer
than ever before. “Does this not seem to
bear out the theory put forward by Henry
George that ‘With progress comes pov-
erty’”? he asked.

“New doctrines are being taught in “Amer-
ica that are inconsistent with former
creeds,” pointed out the speaker. “Among
these are Henry Ford's doctrise of spending.
It is directly opposite to Scotch thrift, and
to the teachings of Benjamin Franklin. But
if spending leads to spendthrift, the indi-
vidual will suffer. Is not much of the rest-
lessness of America, much’ of the lawless-
ness, due to the development of the spend-
ing habit beyond the capacity of earning?”

The economic productivity of the world is
efficient enough to feed and clothe every
human being on earth; and its transporta-
tion systems can carry it wherever it is
needed,” pointed out the South Carolina-edu-
cator. “But consumption thwarts all other
efficiency. Political and economic barriers
thwart all movements. There is where the
economic Gordian Knot lies, and who will
cut this knot?”

“Today commerce and industry are ex-
pected to meet the rieeds of the world; to
this end, it must labor. If it does not, then
some new system will supplant it,” said the
speaker. “It is a reflection upon the intelli-
gence and moral fibre of the world to pile
up wealth on one hand, and distress on the
other. Distress means the decay of man.”

“American educational ideals were brought
over from England, designed to meet the
needs of pure intellectualism, and unfitted to
an economic age. They have educated men
away from the farm and industry,” said Dr.
Sikes, in conclusion. “Mass education must

(Continued on page 6)

Sophs Plan To Hold
Class Banquet Soon

Informal Supper With Interesting
Program to Be Held Night Be-
fore,Holidays Begin

At last the Sophomore banquet that we
have been hearing so much about is to ma-
terialize. C. M. Norfleet, president of the
Sophomore class, stated last Monday that
plans’ were under way ‘to have the banquet
Wednesday night, December 17, in the ban-
quet hall in Chambers Building.

The banquet will of course be an infor-
mal affair and will be given in the form of
a buffet supper. There will be a short pro-
gram consisting of songs by the class and
by a quartet and probably a solo, or two; a
short comedy skit is also being planried.

There seems to be a great deal of inter-
est being taken in this entertainment, for
already nearly the whole Sophomore class
have made known their intentions of attend-
ing the banquet by buying tickets for it.

This banquet is being given with two

main ends in view. First, with the plan of
stimulating in the entire class a better feel-
ing of friendship and of class spirit. The
second end in view is to send the entire
class off for the holidays with a bright out-
look for a merry Christmas and a good start
for a happy New Year.

Dr. Kirk to Deliver

Series of Lectures

Beginning Monday, December 8, a series
of lectures of spiritual nature will be deliv-
ered at Davidson College by Dr. Harris F.
Kirk, pastor of the Franklin Street Pres-
byterian Church in Baltimore, and former
Moderator of the Southern
General Assembly. The appearance of this
prominent religious leader of the South is
made possible by the fund established in
1893 by the late Dr. J. M. P. Otts for the
purpose of securing lecturers to come to
Davidson College,
Christianity.

The Otts fund has been allowed to accu-
mulate and has now reached a total of $10,-
000. The Davidson College trustees recently

authorized the use of these funds, and Dr. |

Kirk was selected to conduct the lectures.
Dr. Kirk will be the fifth to lecture at Da-
vidson sincé the establishment of this; fund, |
the last series of lectures having been deliv-
ered by the late Dr. Walter W. Moore of
the Union Seminary.

During the five days he is here, Dr. Kirk
will speak upon the following subjects: “The
Insignificance of Man’s Personality,” “The
Spiritual Trends of S¢jence,” “Jesus Christ,
the Historical Manifestation of God,” and
“The Christian Conception of Man’s Place in
Nature and Beyond.” These lectures follow
the general theme of “Man’s Place in Na-
ture and Beyond.”

Since the establishment of the Otts fund,
four series of lectures have been delivered,
one by Dr. Ootts himself on
Questions.” Dr. R. L. Dabney has lectured
on “Christ, Our Penal Substitute.’ Dr. J.
B. Shearer has lectured on “Modern Mys-
ticism,” and Dr. Walter W. Moore has lec-
tured upon the “Permanence of the Chris-
tian Ideal.”

Davidson feels itself fortunate in securing

Dr. Kirk to deliver this fifth series of lec- |

tures, and it is expected that visitors from
Charlotte and elsewhere will come to David-
son to hear this noted lecturer. It is also
expected that Dr. Kirk will talk at the stu-
dent chapel services at Davidson each morn-
ing while he is here.

STEVE BROWN.-END

Davidson End Honored by Mention on
, Coaches’ All-American

Presbyterian |

speaking in defense of |

“Unsettled |

| CAMPAIGN TOMORROW
|

Friday night, December 5, at 9 o'clock,
has been set by the “Y” as the time for
the first and biggest canvass of dormitories
in behalf of the $1,000 fund for Barium
Springs Orphanage, gift of the Davidson
| student body. The nature of this institution,
\its present financial difficulties, and the chal-
|lenge that it offers our entire student body
to give liberally and willingly, have all been
discussed in detail in a previous issue.

To insure a successful campaign, every
man must give. Will you do your part?

Davidson Stopped 13-2
By Heavy Wake Forest
Team Thanksgiving Day

Two Passes Give Demon Deacons
Margin of Victory Over Fighting
Wildcat Eleven \

!

| 10,000 FANS A AT CLASH
|
| Gardner Crashes Th: Through Line to

Block Kick and Give Wildcats

Score

The vaunted mammoth line of the Wake
Forest Demon Deacons were able to stem
| every attack of their lighter foes, the David-
{son Wildcats, while their backfield cohorts
were throwing two passes, both of them
good for touchdowns and a 13 to 2 win.
After every running attack had been stopped
by the valiant Red and Black forward wall,
the Baptists took to the air, the first from
Benton to Mills and the second from Brad-
ley to Brogden. The lone
came in the third period when Gardner
crashed through the Deacon line to block
Benton’s kick and give safety.

Ten thousand loyal and cheering fans left
their Thanksgiving tables and warm hgmes
to watch these two ancient. rivals battle it
out. in freezing weather, Every ‘available
space was taken up in the Charlotte High
School Stadium, the best field the Queen
City can offer, and many hundred stood
crowded into the end zones and along -the
sidelines. It was the biggest crowd the
Wildcats have played before this season.
| The Wake Forest line turned out to. be
| an that advance dope had given it, and al-
though the Wildcats made more first downs
jthan their opponents, they were always halt-
(Continued on page 5)

Davidson counter

his team a

All-American Selection
Mention Two Wildcats

Names Appear in McGugin, Roner,
Jones, and Zuppke Nabene Vide
Choice

In the list of America’s best football play-
ers of 1930, picked by Dan McGugin, Bill
Roper, Howard Jones, and, Bob Zuppke,
four of the nation’s prominent coaches, there
appeared the names of two Davidson men,
Steve Brown and Joe McCall. Both Brown
and McCall received honorable mention on
the All-American selection.

Brown, before coming to Davidson, had
never played football before, but under the
guidance of the Davidson coaches has de-
veloped into one of the best ends in this sec-
tion. His great defensive work was outstand-
ing in all the Wildcat games this fall. As a
Freshman, Brown won a berth on the yearl-
ing squad, and last fall as a Sophomore he
showed much promise at end. This season,
when Thad Brock was moved from the wing
position to guard, Brown replaced him and
has duplicated to a large extent the spec-
tacular play of Brock last year. Brown is
a Junior and still has another year of col-
legiate football.

McCall, a halfback, first, won notice for
himself last year by his great broken field
running. Again this fall his broken field runs
were instrumental in several Davidson vic-
tories, and’ distinguished him as one of the
best ball-carriers in this section of the coun-
try. He also was the leading 'ground-gainer
of the Wildcats this year. McCall, a Senior
this year, has played three seasons ‘on the
varsity eleven.

Prof. E. J. Erwin Elected
Head of South Atlantic
Modern Language Group

Davidson Places 50
Grads in Who’sWho

Davidson College was one of the institu-
tions surveyed by Donald B. Prentice and
B. W. Kunkel, in their comparative study

of the 28,805 men in Who's Who of the
United States. The surveyors found that
Davidson had fifty graduates ranked in

Who's Who, this giving Davids6n seventy-
secand place out of the total ‘number of five
hundred and six colleges represented. The
only other colleges or universities in the
State of North Carolina to surpass Davidson
were the University of North Carolina with
ninety four of their alumni. selected, thus
giving them a rank of thirty-seventh, and
Wake Forest, who has fifty-six graduates in
this select group of distinguished men of
America. Wake Forest is ranked sixty-third
in the nation, There were seven members of
the faculty of Davidson who are
alumni and are included in the fifty gradu-
ates.

present

Davidson College's percentage of her liv-
ing graduates is .considerably higher. There
seventy colleges-taken into considera-
and was rated as twenty-
ninth with a percentage of 2.15. The Uni-
versity of North Carolina was the only insti-
tution in the State of North Carolina to
surpass Davidson; it was ranked. twenty-
fourth place in the list with a percentage of
2.35. Last week The Davidsonian mentioned
that there were seven members of the alumni

were

tion Davidson

ef Davidson who are members of the faculty
and who were selected in Who's Who. They
are Dr. William J. Martin, former presi-+
dent, but now president of the General As-
sembly’s Training School at Richmond, Va. ;
Dr. Walter L. Lingle, present president of
Dr. Thomas W. Lingle, of the
French and history departments; Dr. John
W. MacConnell, college physician; Dr. J.
Moore McConnell, dean of students and
head of the history department; Dr. C, M.
Richards of the Bible department, and Dr.
M. E. Sentelle, dean, and also of, the Bible
department. Three others members of the
Davidson faculty were selected for Who's
Who. They were Dr. Howard Bell Arbuckle,
head of the chemistry department, who at-
tended Hampden-Sidney; Dr. Fraser Hood,
head of the psychology department, who was
a student of Southwestern; Prof. Scott C.
Lyon, head of the biology department, who
is an alumnus of Southwestern.

Davidson ;

VOR MICCALL HALFGACK

jonorable men-
l-American

Wildcat Back receives
tion on Coaches’

| Scholars will be

Davidson is Host to 75 Delegates
From 20 Colleges in Sectional
Meet

Selection of the University of South Caro-
lina as the next meeting place brought to
a close Saturday the third annual conven-
tion of the South Atlantic Modern Language
Association, which was in session at David-
son for two days. Approximately 75 dele-
gates from about 20 colleges in four states
attended.

Prof. FE. J. Erwin, of Davidson College,
was chosen as new president, and Prof. C.
I’. Hamff, University, was re-
elected as secretary and treasurer. Four vice-
presidents for the four different states in-
cluded: Florida, Prof. IE. V. Gage of the
Florida State College for Women; Georgia,
Miss lola Kay Fastburn, Brenau;. North
Carolina, Prof. G. C. Taylor of the Univer-
sity of North Carolina, and South Caro-
lina, Prof. A. Vermont, Converse. The new
president succeeds Dr. F. W. Bradley of
the University of South Carolina, who pre-
sided over the

The separate departmental divisions met
in assigned quarters, where talks were made
and different problems
Dr. Jay B.

of Emory

assembly.

were discussed on
Hubbell, of Duke Uni-
versity, led the English Group; Dr. W. S.
Barney, of N. C. C. W.,, French; Prof.
EF. V. Gage, University of Florida, Span-
ish, and Dr. G. R. Vowles, Ger-
man. On Friday night,
guest of Davidson college at a dinner in
the banquet hall of Chambers Building, fol-
lowed by a public meeting, when Dr. J. M.
McConnell, dean instruction, formally
welcomed them to the institution.

Vriday.

Davidson,
the association was

of

After considerable discussion, the questions
of inviting educational institutions in Ken-
tucky, Virginia, and Alabama to
align themselves with the association was
voted It deemed impracticable
because of the widely separated institutions.
The counter proposal of inviting certain in-
dividuals from states was adopted,
however.

Personality was upheld as the determin-
ing factor of the success-or failure of any
English teacher in high schools, in a paper
prepared by Prof. R. Meadows, of

(Continued on page 5)

Candidates Try For
Rhodes les Scholarships

Five Davitdhon Mea. Men in Competition
With Others From Carolina,
Wake Forest, and Duke

Tennessee,

down, was

these

Leon

On Friday and Saturday of this week,
five men will represent: Davidson College as
candidates from North Carolina for the
Rhodes Scholarship. This group, which will
appear before the state committee, is com-

|posed of Dean Rusk, J. K. Pepper, Zeb
Long, Frank R. Brown, and W. B. Mc-
Guire, the last three being alumni. Rusk and

Pepper are members of this year’s Senior
class. Besides these Davidson men, there will
be representatives from Chapel Hill,
three from Duke University, and two from
Wake Forest in the state competition. Of
these fifteen, two are chosen to represert
North Carolina in Atlanta the following
week, There they will meet with ten men
from five other Southern States, and it is
from these twelve men that four Rhodes

five

chosen,

The North Carolina committee which will
select the representatives from this state is
composed of the following men: Hon. Jo-
Daniels, chairman; Prof. Harvie
Duke University, | secretary;
Prof. G. R. Vowles, Davidson College;
Dean W. C. Davidson, Duke University;
President H. S. Hilley, Atlantic Christian
College, and Professor C. P. Spruill, Jr.,
University of North Carolina. All the mem-
bers of this committee are*former Rhodes
scholars with the exception of Mr. Daniels.

sephus
Branscomb,
