THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 20, 1930

After Graduation---Then What?

CHOICE OF VOCATION MOST
IMPORTANT THING IN LIFE

Editor’s Note: This is the first of a series
of articles which are being published in
“The Davidsonian” under the auspices
of the Davidson Young Men’s Associa-
tion’s Annual Vocational Guidance Pro-
gram..

Scientific Choice of a Vocation Necessary

No step in life unless it be the choice of
a husband or wife, is more important than
the choice of a vocation. The wise selec-
tion of the business, trade, or occupation
to which one’s life is to be devoted and
the development of full efficiency in the
chosen field are matters-of the deepest
moment to young men and to the public.
These vital problems should be solved in
a careful, scientific way, with due regard
to each person’s aptitudes, abilities, am-
bitions, resources, and limitations, and the
relations of these elements to the condi-
tions of success in the different indus-
tries.

If a man takes up a line of work to
which he is adapted, he will achieve far
greater success than if he drifts into an
occupation for which he is not fitted. An
occupation out of harmony with the
worker’s aptitudes and capacities means
inefficiency, unenthusiastic and perhaps
distasteful labor, and low pay; while an
Occupation in harmony with the nature
of the man means enthusiasm, love of
work and high economic values, superior
product, efficient service, and good pay.
If. a young man chooses his vocation so
that his best abilities and enthusiasm will
be united with his daily work, he has laid
the foundations of success and happiness.
But if his best abilities and enthusiasms
are separated from his daily work, or do
not find in it fair scope and opportunity
for exercise and development; if his oc-
cupation is merely a means of making a
living, and.the work he loves to do is
sidetracked into the evening hours, or
pushed out of his life altogether, he will
be only a fraction of the man he ought
to be. Efficiency and success are largely
dependent on adaptation. A man would
not get good results by using his cow to
draw his carriage and his horse for dairy
purposes; yet the difference in adaptabil-
ity in that case is no more emphatic than
the differences in aptitudes, capacities,
powers, and adaptabilities of human be-
ings.

Men generally drift into some line of
work by chance, proimity, or uninfromed
selection; and the high percentage of in-
efficiency and change experienced by
many employers in their working force,
and the cost it entails in employment ex-
pense, waste of training, and low grade
service, are largely due to the haphazard
way in which young men drift into em-
ployments, with little or no regard to
adaptability, and without adequate,’ or-
ganized preparation, or any definite aim
or well-considered plan to insure success.

The building of a career is quite as
difficult as the building of a house, yet
few ever sit down with pencil and paper,
with expert information and counsel, to
plan a working career and deal with the
life problem scientifically, as they would
deal with the problem of building a house,
taking the advice of an architect to help
them. No person may decide for another
what occupation he should choose, but it
is possible to help him so to approach the
problem that he shall come to wise con-
clusions for himself.

Whatever doubts there may be of the
practicability of giving expert vocational
counsel there are certain truths that can-
not be denied.

1. It is better to chose a vocation than
merely to hunt a job.

2. No one should choose a vocation
without careful self-analysis, thorough,
honest, and under guidance.

3. The young man should have a large
survey of the field of vocations, and not
simply drop into the convenient or acci-
dental position.

4. Expert advice, or the advice of men
who have made a study of men and of
vocations and of the conditions of success,
must be better for the young man than
the absence of-it.

Vocational Guidance

Trends

FROM ARTICLES
By Dean F F. Bradshaw, U. N. C.

‘The great amount of unrest conce: ning the
processes of higher education is the source
of the personnel work at the present time.
These source areas are complicated by the
following contributions: The great increase
in the size of the student bodies; the develop-
ment of modern psychology which gives a
scientific method of attact on human prob-
lems; the experiences of the war in develop-
ing placement service and a technique for
placing men in their place of best service;
and the great mortality among students rais-
ing the question of the validity of their choice
in regard to a college education, and involv-
ing the question of their abilities and mo-
tives.

The whole thing takes place in a social
situation that is in a constant state of change,
especially in the south, which calls for
choices of life work from students with a
minimum of experience from which to draw.
All this calls for an atempt in the educa-
tional process to guide students .n their
life choices: In the beginning it must not be
thought that this attempt is an attempt to
weigh, measure, and catalogue students for
their respective pigeon hole in society as
an exact science, but that the process of
guidance is an attempt to apply scientific
process to the whole problem of life choice.
A sound attack is the assumption tlat coun-
cellor can help the student determine some
fields of work in which his ability and inter-
est might lead him to invest his life with
the understanding that after all it must be
the student who makes the real choice. The
whole process might well be called a voca-
tional self-guidance process, which takes into
consideration the work and tHe leisure inter-
est of the student and which is not a single
operation but is a continuing process.

Any ‘man who is living and growing has
not completely decided his entire future
career. Our philosophy of life must take
into consideration the idea of growth and
the need of a continuing adjustment of the
growing individual to his changing environ-

ment, and the changing needs of the world
as they appeal to his changing abilities.

A sound vocational philosophy involves
three elements in union, the capacity of the
individual, the opportunities in the world
of work, and the attitude of the individual
to work.

This then gives us three problems. The
first problem is that of capacity, calling for
some sort of analysis of the individual. In
the ‘past there have been many ways in
which this has been attempted, some of
which have been the ways of the quack, the
fortune teller, the pernonologist, the pseudo-
psychologist, etc. It is impossible to forecast
success in business or profession or to tell
whether a man ought to be a wood chopper
or a doctor by the color of his eyes, hair,
the shape of his head, the length of his nose,
whether his chin is receding or protruding,
etc. At the same time the advice of well
meaning parents, teachers, that because a
youth copies the Minister in preaching a ser-
mon, he ought, therefore, be a preacher, is
as unsafe’ as that of the quack. A rule that
is almost safe is that there is no test that
will tell a man what he ought to be. There
are some tests of interest, mental ability, and
physical powers that will tell that probably
he ought not to be a doctor, because that
profession calls for some capacities which he
does not have. But. his will leave many oc-
upations open for which he does have ability.
Fortunately there are thousand of things to
be done and there is no one who can not
find honorable work that will suit his ability
and interests.

Kitsen, of the University of Columbia,
says that probably 50 per cent of the people
can fill 50 per cent of the jobs with 50 per
cent efficiency. The thing for each man to
do is to find the thing that he can do with
approaching 100 per cent efficiency. So in
making an analysis of an individual through
interest and self-analysis tests, it is possibles
for each person to isolate a group of things,
any one of which he might be able to do with
a fair chance of success and happiness.

Before making the choice of his life work
the individual should know what kinds of
work there are to be done, so that he can
make an intelligent choice from among them.
There are a number of good books such as
Bernays’ “Outline of Careers” that will not
only tell you what kinds of work there are
available over the world, but also what is
done in the job and the training that is
necessary. Articles will be run in the David-

FELLOWS!

You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at, the right price at

Henderson’s Filling Station
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Stationery
Books
Mazazines

Superior Soda Service

W.S. HENDERSON

Fountain Pens
Felt Goods

Sundries

DAVIDSON FRESHMEN

Wingate used ten men in effort to stem the
tide of defeat but it was in vain.
During the past week the Wildkittens lost
two games and won one. They lost to Oak
Ridge and Belmont Abbey, and , defeated
Wingate.

The lineups of the two teams are as fol-
lows:
Davidson (45) Wingate (19)
Rogers) 110) sonccaescocs Williams, f (5)
Greechy £20) cuccccceccsauce Morgan, f (0)
Manson; fa(S): coscuscoscccous Clark, f (2)
Enochs, { (2) ...-..... Funderburk, f (0)
Pierce: 6 C16) cc peccecccaccad Gaddy, c (6)
PEADOdY;.&. (2) ceunecscseotoe Tucker, g (2)

sonian during the spring which will tell of
opportunities in the different professions and
in business in the United States. These arti-
cles will be written by leading men from each
field. A glance at the United States Census
report will show. classifications of work
which men are doing. Also there are speci-
fications made by many companies that are
complete analyses of the activities in which
a “man engages in that particular field of
service, so that an applicant may know just
what he will have to do if he chooses that
certain of profession or work.

Bettis; 2: (0) sceccepe cccsecaus Baker, g (3)
Bernatd, @) Cl) csccccescasece Conner, g (0)
Walker, g (1)

Griffin, g (0)

ONE EXPLOSION IS AS
BAD AS
a Fire or an Earthquake

Explosions rip, rend, wreck homes,
retail stores, plants, factories, ware-
houses, mills, and all classes of prop-
erty. No building is immune from their
threat.

We shall be glad to explain how
your property may be protected against
explosion from within and without
your property. :

\ fer to have insurance—
dd eaand not need it!

Independence Trust Co.
Insurance Department
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

“DRUGS”

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

SPECIAL

One pound College Seal paper
and envelopes—Only $1.00
A complete drug store

at your service.

WHITE DRUG CO.

Make Our Store Your Store

“SODA”

“SUNDRIES”

$29.50

STETSON “D” STORE

Opposite Campus
elephone 206

Clothes for the College Boy

$34.50

Bldati

108

pain and embossed

Best Quality and Prices

ANY TUPE OF PRINTING
Earnest H. McCall

bai ak Slag

Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

On gr

Watts

VV VV VV VV VV VV VV VV VV VV VV VV V VV VY VY VV VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVY

Monday and Tuesday, February 24 and 25
VICTOR MACLAGLIN

in
“Hot for Paris”
DON’T MISS THIS—It’s A WOW!

Wednesday, February 26
“Night Parade”

Davidson Theatre

Thursday, February 27
VAN and SCHENK
in
“They Learned About Women”

Friday, February 28th
| “Nix on Dames”
Saturday, March 1
“Murder on the Roof’ ‘
