THE

DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 1, 1930

New and Retiring Secretaries

© Caen lk. PrircHeTr «

“ MCO'NEAL 8 *
Carl Pritchett, retiring President of the Student Body, who will
O’Neal as “Y” Secretary for the coming year.

Columbia University.

succeed Camper
O'Neal is to study psychology at

Eastern Trip Completed
By Varsity Tennis Team

Johnston and Halverstadt to Go to
Semi-Finals in State Tourney

The Davidson varsity tennis team re-
turned Thursday from a tour through North
Carolina and Virginia. On this trip matches
were played with Duke University, the Uni-
versity of North Carolina, William and
Mary College, and the University of Vir-
ginia. While on this trip the members of
the team also competed in the North Caro-

lina Inter-Collegiate Tournament at Chapel
Hill.

The first match was played at Duke and
the Wildcats were defeated in a close match
by the score of 5 to 4. The six singles
matches were split, 3-3, and Duke’s superi-
ority in the doubles won the match for her.
Halverstadt, McLean, and Fain in the singles
and Captain Johnston and Halverstadt in
the doubles turned in wins for Davidson.

At Chapel Hill, Carolina’s strong team
turned back the Cats by the score of seven
matches to two. Halverstadt and Poé won
singles matches while all three. doubles
matches and four singles matches went to
Carolina.

At William and Mary the only win of
the trip was chalked up. Johnston, Halver-
stadt, Poe and McLean won in singles and
doubles and the final score was Davidson 6,
William and Mary 3.

At ‘the University of Virginia another
strong team was met and Davidson ended
up on the short end of a 7 to 2 count. Hal-
verstadt and McLean won singles and Hal-
verstadt and Johnston put up a magnificent
fight in the doubles, only to lose, 12-10,
6-8, 6-1.

At the State Tournament a much bet-
ter showing was made than in the team

PICKUPS AND PASSES

(Continued from page 3)
lent showings in the state tennis tour-
nament. Johnston advanced to the
finals in the singles play before he
was finally defeated by Hendlin, of
of Carolina. The scores for the match
were 6-1, 6-1, 6-2.

Johnston was slated to play Yoeman,
also of Carolina, in the semi-finals, but
the Tar Heel withdrew from the tourna-
ment, and Johnston entered the finals by
default. He and Halverstadt were the
only members of the Davidson squad to
advance beyond the second round in the
tourney.

Hendlin and Liskin, U. N. C. doubles
team downed the Davidson No. 1 doubles
team in the semi-finals, and in straight
sets.

Johnston and Halverstadt carried the
first set to 8-6 before dropping it, but
could not withstand the play of the Tar
Heel aces, who later won ‘out in the
doubles, and dropped the next two sets
6-0,.6-2.

The record for the team as a whole for
the trip shows a win over William and
Mary, and losses 'to Duke, Carolina, and
the University of Virginia. These are the
first matches that a Davidson tennis team

has lost in three years. Playing under the |

six-man team system handicaps the Wild-
cats a little, but this is not offered as an
alibi for the record.

matches. In the first round McLean was de-
feated by Phillips, Duke ace and, Poe was
eliminated by Vernon from Wake Forest.
In the second round Phillips eliminated Du-
Bose and Fain also dropped out, being de-
feated by Grady Frank, Duke No, 2. Hal-
verstadt fought his way to the semi-finals
only to go down in a four-set match before
Hendlin, the winner of the tournament. Cap-
tain Johnston also went to the semi-finals

SESSION 1929-30

A.M. EXAMINATIONS BEGIN 9:00 __

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE FOR SENIORS

Second Semester

_P. M. EXAMINATIONS BEGIN 2:00 _

Raber Be.» / aot
SAT. ie M a Business 3; Economics 1; Psy chology 3 ae
a Y/ P. M. Geology 3; Political Science As Education 3 # ae os
MON, A. M. :
19 P.M. _|_Philosophy 1; Business 2; Political Science 4; Economics er Se ee ee
TUES A. M. _ Polit. Se. 3; Piychology 2; Education 1; Business 1; Geology 4; Applied Math. 1, 2_
20 P, M. Astronomy; Geology 1; Bible 3; Pub. Speaking 2; Philosophy 4 aay
WED. A. M. _ Philosophy 3; Polit. Sc. 2; Public | Speaking 3; Sociology
21 P.'M Economics 2; Education 2: Mathematics 3; Bible 4, 5
THURS. A. Mz | Spanish; French ee ee
vse (18 PEM _ English; Physics
FRI, A. M. wR O. T. C.; Psychology 4
23 P.M. _ Mathematics 4; Economics 3; Geology 2; Education 4; Philosophy 2; Psychology 1
SAT. A. M. History; Chemistry
pe 24 _P. M. Biology ; German; Greek eras eae a

see Professors at once.

NOTE: Courses not shown on schedule to be arranged by conference, _
Conflicts to be arranged by conference, the Junior and Senior courses taking preference. All who have conflicts

the finals and battle Hendlin of N. C. for
the championship. He was defeated in this
match. In the doubles, DuBose and Fain
were eliminated in the first round by Rogers
and Frank from Duke, ultimate runners-up
in the tournament. Poe and McLean won
their first round match but defaulted in the
second in order to return to ‘school at the
scheduled time. Johnston and Halverstadt
went to the semi-finals only to be eliminated
by Hendlin and Liskin of U. N. C., the
winners of the tournament.

Two home matches have been scheduled,
one with Carolina on May 6, and the other
with Duke, the date not having been set
for this match.

Virginia :
Hatchett :

“I've changed my mind.”

“Well,

does it

work any

where a default gave him the right to enter better.”

STETSON “D” STORE
$29.50 $34.50

Opposite Campus
elephone 206

Complete Line of
Summer Materials
Nurotex and Linens

COMPLETE LINE OF FURNISHINGS-/

...IN a cigare

.oh the court its

any two-hour speech.

_ Taste must speak foritself ...and Chesterfield’s
refreshing, spicy flavor, its characteristic fra-

gtance, do just that.

Making Chesterfields, making them right,
making you like them, requires only this:

“TASTE above everything ~

= it’s

A FACT is more powerful than twenty texts.”
Two puffs tell more of a cigarette’s taste than

ASTE

hesterfield

FINE TURKISH and DOMESTIC tobaccos, not only BLENDED but CROSS-BLENDED

© 1929, Looosrr & Mrsns Tosacco Co.

