The Dabidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
OUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
" Office. Davidson, North Carolina. :

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

EDITORIAL STAFF .

FE. C. DWELLE._.. 222 ene Managing Editor
L ---Managing Editor
-Managing Editor
--Sorts Editor
_M. , - Feature Editor
NORMAN RAIES.... Feature Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN... Associate Editor
J. B. BLACK - --Associate Editor
W. C. RAGIN... eee ee eee Associate Editor

Vv. M

BUSINESS STAFF

J. AL CANNON 2 00 oleae Business Manager
A. RK. JACKSON eee Review Editor
P.M. CONWAY ---Assistant Business Manager
A. J. BAKER...W.. -Assistant Business Manages
J. B. STEVENS..__.._. -Assistant Business Manager
A. G. MONTGOMERY -- --Subscription Manager
P. F. BROWN. ee --Solicitor
R. W. FALLS . Solicitor
A. M. MANSON Solicitor
A. L. MEBANE |... Solicitor
W. Rk. MORROW.._____22 ooo... --Solicitor
D. G. STEPHENSON Vice-President
A, H. WHITEHEAD... ole. Secretary-Treasured
: REPORTERS’ CLUB
S. WILEY lo. . eae seeee ee eee een -n President
0. STEPHESON. .. Vice- President
H. WHITEHEAD. . --------..Secretary-Treasurer
di LDERMA J. M. BROWN

G. FE. BAILEY
S. D

=¢
x
i)

a
=
i]
<

oF
Saysz>

CKS
UERRAT
KE

EUV MAP Y EPONA
OFOxnz

2 7 RK. L. McCALLIF
MATTHEWS C.F. MYERS +
~» M. MULLISS H. F. NICHOLS
G. P. PARDINGTON 8. I. PRESTON
C. W. F. SPENCER Bb. B. SUGG —
BB. TAYLOR W. B. WARD
J. KR. SMITH D. D. McBRYDE

SEPTEMBER 18, 1930
eee
SUGGESTIONS
A good way to keep grass green is to walk and
romp where there isn’t any. Strolling across it is a

different proposition from making it an habitual
path.

Co-operate with the coaches in their effort to
keep the playing fields clear of spectators. It is as
important to support the teams in practice as it is
on Saturday afternoons.

Paper napkins are not quite as bad as paper
towels. The taste for them can be acquired.

Get behind the Hoosier addition to the coaching
staff and make him feel at home. =

Many students would like to know the selections
played as preludes in the morning chapel services.
An up to date bulletin board might fill the bill.

If anybody wants anything let him tell somebody
else about it. No one person knows as much as two
or three others put together. . °

a

Because someone has said that life should not be

taken too seriously don’t turn it into a farce.

IN THE WAY OF GREETING

There may be some close observers who
will note that certain changes have been
made in The Davidsonian by its staff. It is
not that body’s purpose ta proclaim ‘or to
point out the few differences between the
present isue and that of last year. They are
there, and they stand by themselves. There
is no apology.

It is the hope of the staff, however, that
there may be a more perfect functioning be-
tween the paper, the students, and the va-
rious types of organizations on the campus,
the students, and the various types of or-
ganizations on the campus. In no other way
can the student body approach the Utopia of
college life which every student has longed
for, at one time or another. Davidson’s “tra-
ditional future”!

Doubtless there will ‘be certain features
which will not meet with universal approval.
When this is true the staff wants the dis-
senter to dissent openly. Constructive crit-
icism is to be encouraged. The men who
have been chosen to control The Davidson-
lan own no larger part of it than every other
other man in school. It is a common servant.

Through this brief observation a cordial
welcome is extended both to those who have
been here in past years and to those who
have more recently enrolled. Veterans of
past conflicts like to be together again, and
recruits are gladly received. The staff will
try to satisfy everybody, but it desires that
everybody try to be satisfied.

“If I should meet thee

After long years,

How should I greet thee?”
Lord Byron.

Son—Pa, what are ancestors?

Father—Well, my son, I’m one of your ancestors.
Your grandpa is another.

Son—Oh! Then why is it that
them ? 4

people brag about

THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 18, |930

‘THE FULL WEEK PROGRAM

No student, whether he be freshman or
upperclassman, has failed to notice the in-
stitution of Saturday afternoon classes. No
small number of men have had occasion to
come into even a more intimate contact with
them. It cannot be truthfully said that they
meet with approval.

At no time in the history of United States
business has Saturday afternoon been as
generally regarded to be a holiday as it is
today. There are few banking houses and
commercial concerns, especially in the larg-
er cities, which do not grant their emplovees
one afternoon off during the week. This is
; usually Saturday.

| It was not so very long ago that the ma-
| jority, of colleges and universities rested
two days a weck, counting Sunday. The six
‘lay routine was found and accepted as fit-
ting most schedules in a better way. Even
then Saturday afternoons were held invio-
late. .

Especially poignant at this season of the
year is the question of football games. Five
contests on the varsity schedule are to be
played on Richardson Ficld. [t is admitted
that one of these will be on home-coming
day. However, four ‘still remain, and there
are four more games, excluding the Thanks-
giving classic, to be played away from
home. The support which Davidson students
are known to give their teams at all times
must suffer as a consequence. -

Those men who have one afternoon class
in the first period after lunch should be able
to get to the field in time for the kickoff.
Those who have to meet the second period
class will find this impossible. !t applies a
blanket to most people’s emotions when
they arrive late at such a contest.

We do not intend to appear unaware of
the difficulties which attend the framing of
a curricular schedule. With the large num-
ber of electives offered for Juniors and Sen-
iors it is well‘nigh impossible to arrange a
program void of conflicts. However, this has
been done in the past without having to con-
duct classes on Saturday afternoon. There
must be a solution to the problem.

It is not our intention to favor regular
week-end trips on the part of the majority
of students. They have distinct and effective
disadvantages. However, there are times
when such hegiras become practically neces-
sary. In the last named event every hour can
become precious. With the schedule, as re-

cently arranged, it is not only necessary to |.

meet these afternoon classes, but, also, the
man desiring leave must wait through the
dinner hour whereas he could formerly leave
without waiting for his lunch.

We are willing to admit that there may be
peculiar advantages to everyone concerned
which have escaped our attention. Let it

suffice that. they appear rather elusive. The
scientific theory gains power from the lab-
oratory experiment which renders it prac-
ticable. Time must, in the last analysis, de-
termine the merits of the new arrangement.
No one can foretell the conclusion. In justice
to its originators it should be given a fair
trial.

BEGGING FROM GUESTS

Sports followers all over the world are
pulling for Shamrock V to come through.
Sir Thomas Lipton, as sportsman and gent-
leman, has endeared himself to the hearts
of all those who have known him or read
about him. At the present writing it does
not seem likely that he will be successful in
his quest of the “old mug.”

It seems a pity that his venture should be
sullied by the advances of one James Henry
Clay, at present an inmate in a Virginia
poorhouse. As a boy Sir Thomas worked on
a plantation with Clay. Today one has mil-
lions and the other is penniless. Human
sympathy must be aroused by any poverty
stricken old man.

But, there are those of us who opine that
both men had an equal start in both educa-

tion and finances. In many ways Clay had~

the advantage. Not only was he a citizen of
the United States, so frequently referred to
as the “land of opportunity,” but he must
have had some capital. Now, he and his
friends are literally begging from Sir
Thomas. ; -
A good many Freshmen have started to
college at Davidson. They all have an equal
chance to make good. Yet, before their Sen-
lor years some of them will be beggin
others to help them with their studies. Anv-
one is glad to give a man a start, but he
hates to see that man stop. Natural talent
and ablity mean a great deal, but greater
than that are pluck, ndustry, and plain old
stick-to-it-iveness,

|

OH DAVIDSON!

Freshmen are quickly grasping Davidson's spirit
this year. At the first pep meeting last Friday,
almost every yell was effective. Cheerleader Geo.
McClenahan was elated, but 15 not yet satished.
Freshmen, you must be all “cats” these first few
weeks, so that you tay acquire all that a fresh-
man should know. You wiil be so Impressed that
you will never forget your first few days here.
Davidson is virtually filled with traditions, whose
time-honored presence we must all learn to respect
in order to appreciate this great college. Uppermost
is our spirit. It is an invisible inspiration that in-
evitably and permanently enters our hearts, almost
immediately after matriculation.

Tom Brohard’s return 45 2 graduate studerit,
greaty augmente the wealth of material that
Coach Younger has on hand. Tom was fol-
lowed by an injury jinx last year, which ab-
ruptly curtailed his football activity, but which
he has overcome, and now has recovered his
old form. He is eligible for another year.

Heath Whittle and E. |. Lafferty, whose un-
heralded return was not generally known, but who
have been enthusiastically welcomed, have been
retained as members of the faculty, Heath as an
assistant in the department of physical education,
and Lafferty as assistant in Chemistry. These two
men, with Frank Brown and Carl Pritchett, all
prominent campus figures last year, total four who
have been chosen from the Class of 1930, to assist
in the college curricular activities.

Ed Robinson, ‘30, doesn't know whether to
leave, take a post-graduate course or start in
as a freshman again. He has been a frequent
visitor on the campus here, and just naturally
can’t leave. And that is the way 99 out of every
100 Davidson men always feel, after they have
been graduated. Other members of the class
who came back for a visit, and who we were
glad to see were Murray Christian, Ned Hef-
ner, Ellis Marsh, Whiz Miller, Charlie Ritchie
and Louis Roberts.

Sparrow Mills’ return to Davidson, not only in-
creases the interest in chapel exercises, but gites
Jack Pepper’s golfers another good linksman.

Davidson has emerged successfully from the
world-wide business depression, as is evidenced
by the present enrollment, which is about the
same as last year. According to statistics from
many other colleges and universities, the en-
rollment has suffered drastic decreases, in all
probability caused by the poor financial condi-
titions throughout the country. The situation is
very grave, but as Arthur Brisbane encourag-
ingly remarks, “We have had genuis enough to
create our past prosperity, so will be have
enough genius to lead us out of the impending
crisis.”

, Many familiar faces arc lacking from the stu-
dent body this year, and we certainly do miss
them, Such well-known men as Dick Hall, Bob
Norton, Bill Poole, Boh Witt, Bob Overman, Bill
Ratchford, Charlie Coble, Rick Bradshaw, Newt
Dicks, Buck Marrow, Spencer McCallie, Barrier,
Hendry Cavan, Moon Mullins and Allen Rogers, a
tremendous loss to many activities in which these
men figured, Then too, we regret the loss of many
others who did not return, including T, W. Bethea,
Jake Hambright, Bill ‘Bacon, Jack Boyd, Rosser

‘Elkins, Ed Grady. Paul Hudgins, Bonner Jones,

Frank Kennerly, Clarence Kerfoot, Bill Lane, the
Moody brothers, Ratph Artinton, Jim Bagby, Bill
Bedell, Jim Campbell, Nelson Byerly, Al Ellington,
Lamar Howe. Dick kibler, George Miller, Dave
Pardington, Ben Parks, Johnny Reich, Felix Bal-
lard, John Angus Smith and Doc Wilson.

Now is the time for every able man in the
student body to respond to Captain Pritchett’s
appeal, which he made in an epochal speech last
year year, and which challenged every man in
college to go out for some sport, especially in
those which are played in intercollegiate com-
petition. .

The city of Davidson has at last-become -mod-
ernized.. A Davidson alumnus is constructing an
“immature” golf course between the drug store and
the Stetson “D.” For the “tired college man,” no
doubt! Perhaps, there will soon be agitation for
it to be added to the college sport schedule. Just be
patient and we'll see what we can do about getting
some croquet and checker teams together, and just

eliminate wrestling and football altogether.
a

The Freshman reception Monday night was
better than ever. A splendid medium for get-
ting new students acquainted with the faculty.
Every student should visit each of hie proes-
sors at least once during the year. Not neces-
sarily because it » hie es
cordially welcom
Boarder—Say, janifor, it’s down to zero in my flat.
Janitor—Down to fero, is it? That’s nothing!

at every home.

is duty, but because he is

Musings of a
Matadore

By Vereen Bell

Well, back to the old grindstone. I had looked
forward to a pleasant year but my dreams were
shattered when some old tease.-came up to me
right off the bat and cracked this one:

There was a lady who went down to the railroad
Station to leave for a vacation. She went up to the
ticket office, and believe it or not, she went to buy
a ticket.

“I would like to buy a railroad ticket, please.”
she said.

“Certainly, madam,” replied the agent. “Where
are you going?"

“That's none of your business,” replied the lady.

“Well, I've got to know where you are going.”
“T shan't tell you.”

“But, madam, I can’t sell you a ticket until you
tell me where you want to go.”

“All right, if you want to act that way, I'm go-
ing to Jacksonville.”

“That's fine. Here's your ticket and there's the
train on track No. 3.”

So the lady got on the train and just as it was
pulling out she screamed back to the agent:

“Ha, ha, Fooled you, goody. I was going to New
York all the time.”

T ddn’t think much of the joke so’ heh, hehed a
couple of times to be polite and then said, “Well
she certainly fooled him, didn't she?” Then the nar-
rator of the tale gnashed his teeth and pulled out a
few locks of hair. He said the joke was on the
lady and went off to chase butterflies. I pondered
that joke over and over and this morning it came
to me that the lady must have left her suitcase at
at the station. Tt pays to watch out for things like

_ that. T always see to it that a redcap puts mine

safely on the train before I make ribald remarks to
station agents. Another thing I don't like about
spaghetti is the way it will hit you on the nose if
you suck it in too fast.

Have you ever heard the Joist Song? Joist a
Song at Twilight. Since Modernistic poetry seems
to be the order of the day (it used to be ham and
eggs, you know) we will quote a verse or two from
Memory and conclude with the Refrain from’
Swearin':

Wherever you go,
Whatever you do,
More mileage in a Six,
Poo Poo Pudue.

The west is caling me again,

That makes it Monday in France

T’'ll have pie, if you please:

Look at the crease in my trousers.
(Pants, see? Heh, heh).

Eva's out tonight

Listen to the train

A shriek rents the night for twenty-
five dollars a month,

It is always good to end a literary work with a
little nature study. Now for this week my children
we will take up the Kuke. The Kuke is a native of
the Wa Wa Islands. They are born at an early age
and live until late in life. Their formation is pecu-
liar in that they have three legs (probably giving
rise to the three-legged stool idea), two cyes, a
double chin, a two car garage and an extra pair of
pants. Their breath even comes in pants and their
tongues are coated. They are famous for their
enmity with the Jitnys (who, by the way, are no
relation to the buffalo nickel) and their scraps are
masterpiecs of military strategy. A Kuke will see a
Jitny in a distant tree and in tone with a quiet
nasal enunciation: “I spy"; whereupon he imme-
diately begins to snook up on him. When a suffi-
cient nearness is acquired, he springs up and
screams in a multitude of voices. Repeating the
latter he surrounds the Jitny and then jumps on his
horse and rides off in all directions. And that, dear
ones, is absolutly not to be sneezed at.

Pat was visiting the house of a friend who was the
proud owner of a parrot. Pat had never seen one
before.

“Hello!” exclaimed the bird, as the visitor walked
past the cage.

Pat turned in amazement and, after staring at the
parrot for a moment, raised his cap in salute. “Good-
morning to yez,.” he said politely. “Sure, at first I
thought yez was a bir-rd!"

An Irishman was telling his friend of a narrow
escape in the war..

“The bullet went in me chist and came out me
back.” said Pat. ——

“But,” answered his friend, “it would go through
your heart and kill you.”

“Me heart was in me mouth at the time,” came
the quick reply.

An Irishman was seated in a train beside a pompous
individual, who was accompanied by a dog.

“Foine dog ye have,” said the Irishman. ‘What kind
is it?”
“A cross between an Irishman and ,an age,
the answer.

“Sure, an’ it's related to both of us,” the Irishman
rejoined. —

’

was

!
