N

THE DAVIDSONIAN,

MAY 1, 1930

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
HESS Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the

Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

. WILSON McCUTCHAN ...-.-...----.-.---- Editor-in-Chief
S.-H GMGGA Lily: sencakéudusitcucdcctcudshesna Business Manager
: EDITORIAL STAFF
B,C, DWELLE: . ccusceccscssesisiacsaes Managing Editor
W. S.. LEA ....... --Managing Editor
D. G. MARTIN .. -Managing Editor
W. _H. MATTHEWS ---Sports Editor
Vis Mie BU ieiacentuswecseccsckoccuescs --Feature Editor
NORMAN RAIES ----Feature Editor
P. R ALDERMA Associate Editor
%% BLACK .... --Associate Editor

. C. RAGIN --Associate Editor

zi BUSINESS STAFF

vf 4. CANNON. .. .ccccccccutusee Assistant Business Manager

TS BOVD 205 sos ccs sce aa aoeeas Subscription Manager
A. J. BAKER _._. Banauawcubacc seat Solicitor
DP oM CONWAY: a cscuussecckuausdsdeeueoudssone Solicitor
J. H. McKINNON Solicitor
- O. MANN..... Solicitor
» E. RUFF. .__. Soilcitor
. L. SEVIER --Solicitor

—__—_—______.
—————— eee

witiy REPORTERS’ CLUB
SEY oie Gos ag on ose dau adassndcuueabubecucuncice, President
ii SDMEHIEN SON Scicccsnsescd ec cee Vice-President

Secretary-Treasurer
NKL

Ss.
D.
A

MAY 1, 1930

SUGGESTIONS

State records, in some events, are better than
«4 Davidson ones, Pull for the track team next
Saturday ; three school marks were bettered in
the last meét, Joe McCall exceeding the State
record held by Kinsey.

There are only a few more games on the
home diamond. Go out and help the Wildcats
to increase their percentage. Strong teams are
listed on the schedule.

Members of the “Y” Cabinet will appreciate

a good attendance atthe Sunday night Vesper
services.

Follow the example of nations, and don’t
disarm for exams, They provide a strong bar-
rier in front of a pleasant summer,

Over a hundred students will soon become
alumni. Help to make their last month a pleas-
ant one, for they will carry away something
every college graduate talks about, memories
of school days.

Recently the United States mints suspended ‘

production of dimes. Rumor has it that the
Rockefeller billions are trembling.

_ In China the people try to “scare the dog
away from the sun” (eclipse) with hideous
noises, Last Monday a few students peeked
through smoked glasses for a minute or two.
Nothing important!

CO-OPERATION

In the midst of its effort to provide a David-
sonian that will be full of interest to students
and other readers, the staff feels the need of
co-operation on the part of the paper‘s adher-
ents. The Davidsonian does not belong to the
staff or the Reporters’ Club; it is the common
property of every man on the campus, It is a
part of the college, in the same sense as the
athletic teams, the Y. M. C. A., and other extra-
curricular activities.

However, we believe that the Davidsonian
should possess the “news right.” In other
words, advances on important and unsual events
belong to it. Although every effort is made to
cover the field, yet news items occasionally slip
by. This can be remedied by the intervention of
those who are in the position to hold interesting
information. Many articles lose their rightful
“news effect” because of public verbal an-
nouncement, and we feel that we have a claim
on subjects of local interest.

Therefore, we hold that the combined effort
of every man will tend to produce a better
weekly publication. Every member of the staff
or any student connected with the Davidsonian
will be glad to attend to any item for publica-
tion which might be submitted by students or
faculty members. “E Pluribus Unum” can be
applied to other places than the coins of the

nited States. It is only through united co-

apace? that this paper can be representative
of the :

general consensus of opinion.

ARTISTIC APPRECIATION

Can it be that Davidson students are over-
coming their traditional aversion to presenta-
tions of classical music? Attendance at organ
recitals and corresponding programs has been
better than was ever expected, although it could
still be improved; Many boys. have the idea that
they display tendencies toward effeminacy
when they evidence interest in selections from
operas, symphonies, and other compositions
which are generally defined as classical. Others
are inclined to pine for the presence of jazz,
while disparaging the immortal chords of
Beethoven and Chopin.

No person would be guilty of comparing
Shakespeare to vaudeville, though both have
their place in entertainment. Likewise in music,
both phases serve entirely different purposes.
We do not advocate an exchange of one for
the other; nor would we abolish one and keep
the other. Athletics is not the only place in
which a person can “over-train.”

Due credit should be given to Mu Beta Psi
for the energetic work it has done along these
lines. Not only has that organization brought
artists of real ability to the campus, but it has
practically always thrown its doors open to the
public. We feel that attention to truly great
music will evolve with a richer appreciation of
life. Previously, the college has been somewhat
hampered by lack of ‘equipment; there is noth-
ing to retard progress in the future.

THANKS TO THE CLASS OF ’30

Words fail to express the value which it is
believed the student body derived from the ban-
quet recently sponsored by the Senior Class.
Congratulations are due those men who were
instrumental ‘in reviving a ceremony which had
been inaugurated in the past and forgotten. It
is true that there is nothing new in the actions
of man, but a return to former practices often
exposes a different aspect of the same object.

It must be admitted that there were murmur-
ings of doubt heard before Tuesday night.
None have been noticed since then. Everyone
who was present was in a good humor and, at
the same time, in a serious one .. . a combina-
tion which is rarely achieved successfully.

Above all, it was fitting and proper that the
host of the occasion should have been the
graduating class of 1930. Not only did the re-
tiring individuals of the class tender their posts
to the men newly elected, but McGuire also
extended the official farewell from the organ-
ization of which he is President. He stated that
they reluctantly left Davidson its heritage. Da-
vidson equally as grudgingly receives it, but it
wishes the soon-to-become alumni every pos-
siblessiccess). 55> ars

We do not deem it necessary to review a
program which was attended by a large major-
ity of the student body. That the solemnity of
the hour made its appeal is witnessed by the
absolute attention payed by the audience. Few
Davidson gatherings have been as quiet, or
have they paid as rapt consideration for the
men who talked to them. Responsibility was
transferred through public and official channels.

However, students must not overlook the evi-
dent fact that their responsibility was neither
slackened nor shifted. It is true that there was
a change of individuals, but individuals must
be forgotten. The Student Government of Da-
vidson College has not tolerated individualism
in the past, nor will it do so in the future.
Organizations are the units which must be pri-
marily considered, and they in turn blend them-
selves into the whole life of the student body
in its entirety.

At times there is a tendency to feel that the
subject of “Wildcat Spirit” is overworked or
“run in the ground.” Any matter of current
interest can become stale, but this same spirit
is the underlying force that moves Davidson.
It is the power that makes Davidson students
give their best for the school, and it is the fac-
tor that compels the Senior Class to reluctantly
relinquish their campus life. It is necessary that
it be revived and reconsecrated.

Therefore, again we thank the Class of ’30
for rejuvenating a service to their fellow stu-
dents which once failed to take its place on the
campus calendar. It is sincerely hoped that it
will become a regular event which can be looked
forward to in the feeling of mutual fellowship
and friendliness. The heritage is left with the
undergraduate classes.

Sherlock Bronson (slightly delirious) :
what did you say my temperature was?”

Nurse: “103, sir.”

‘Financier: “Right—when it gets to 103.5—sell.”

“Nurse,

Exasperated Autoist to Garage Mechanic: “I say,
buddy, do you have something to stop knocking?”

G. M.: “Certainly.”

E. A.: “Well, will you kindly pour about a gallon
of it down my wife’s throat?”

The football captain won the game,
He heard the blecahers cheer,
But he had to stay behind
To find his missing ear.

{ys

DAVIDSON-- WEEK by WEEK
By-Nor

MUSINGS of the MATADOR
Vereen Bell

Calvin Kuykendall, who returned to Davidson
last January, accumulated a wealth of experience
during this past summer and fall, which incidental-

ly kept him from entering Davidson in September.
The West Virginia boy, after leaving college for

the vacation term last June, together with Albert
Cowan, a former Davidson student, procured a
job as sailor on an oil tanker, and left the United
States for a five months passage.

The two prospective “gobs” left New York in
early.July, and journeyed along the Atlantic to the
Gulf of Mexico. From there the tanker passed
through the Panama Canal, and moved up the
west coast, making the great circle route from
there around by the Bering sea to Japan.

The adventurers disembarked for a while in the
Oreint, but left after a few days for ‘the Philip-
pines for another short stay, after which the
steamer made the same return trip. The young
sailors experienced two typhoons, and two mild
mutinies, one being caused by a rumor that the
boat had been condemned as not seaworthy.

Cal described the sailors as very rough, and
their quarters dingy. The crew numbered thirty-
two. The two youths lived in the forecastle but
ate with the officers. Both learned enough astron-
omy and gation, from the mate, to qualify for
an “acer Meme,

<

Unfortunately, the edition of Who’s Who in
America in the library, was not the most recent
published, and it will be remembered that last
week there appeared in this column a list of
men on the Davidson Colege faculty, whose
biographies are included in this famous com-
pilation, in brief form. Those men named were:
Dr. W. L. Lingle, Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, Dr.
Frazer Hood, Dr. S. C. Lyon, and Dr. J. W.
MacConnell.

_ However, the new edition includes four more
the faculty members, each having accumulated
numerous honors. Dr. T. W. Lingle, Dr. J. M.
McConnell, Dr. C. M. Richards and Dr. M. E.
Sentelle concludes the new group of men Dr.
William Joseph Martin, -President Emeritus
of Davidson College, is also in this eminent
group, which makes about 20 per cent of the
faculty Who’s Who members. The achieve-
ments of each one is amazing, and it is planned
to enumerate them in the future.

Prof. Archibald Currie, one of the popular mem-
bers of the faculty, enjoys telling stories about his
old days in college, but not as much as the stu-
dents themselves like to hear them.

Explaining how easily an old college man was
deceived, in one of his anecdotes, Doctor Currie
relates an incident which occurred while he was in
school, concerning a petition which some of the
boys took around the dormitories. Nearly. every-
one became a signatory to the paper without even
reading it. When its contents were divulged, it
was found that the petition resuested that every
signer be expelled from college! It is also inter-
esting to note that numerous prominent men are
numbered among Professor Currie’s acquaint-
ances such as Josephus Daniels, Henry Louis
Smith, Purgles, a Polish leader, and others.

The City of Davidson has a population of
1,445 persons, according to census enumerators
who recently gave their completed report of
the ‘upper Mecklenburg town. Six Davidson
College boys were included, besides those who
live here—and these were the men whose pa-
rents were missionaries in foreign countries.
The census also showed, that with the student
body included, Davidson has a population of
more than 2,000 people, for nine months of the
year,

Census returns become a predominant feature
in national news within the past few weeks and
many oddities have been revealed. Besides find
ing a man, who at the age of 103 years was
“temporarily out of employment,” the census-
takers in Houston, Texas, interview a man
named A. Vehicle, whose father was born in.

’ the town of Wildhorse, his mother in Pack-
saddle, and he himself a citizen of Muleshoe—
and he was not fined for “horsing” the official.
Census statistics—a new source of matorial for
the great Ripley!

How the members of the College Humor Hall of
Fame are chosen has not been revealed, but if
Davidson is given the opportunity soon, it seems
that the census on the campus for the selection
of a man for this honor, would indicate that Fron-
tis Withers Johnson, with many distinctions in-
cluding Phi Beta Kappa, O.-D. K., Scabbard and
Blade, former captain of the Varsity tennis and
basketball teams, would be the logical choice of
the Davidson students. _

History Teacher : “What is the greatest thing about
George Washington ?”
Anne: “His memory. They erected a

: monument
to it.” i

My sympathy certainly goes out to the poor Eng-
lishman I saw in the restaurant the other day. The
man was eating alphabet soup and dropping his
‘aitches.’ When he asked the waiter what else he had
to eat, the answer was: “Roas’ bif, ros’ poak, strom-

“berrrry pie.” The Englishman said: “Strawberry, eh

wot?” “Yessir, stromberrry pie wit’ real strom-
berrries in it.’ The Englishman, after half an hour,
broke into a smile and said: “Bring me some cot-
tage cheese.” I got up and went over to his table and
began conversing with him. He told me that he was
a vegetarian. It seemed that his daughter was in
love and her name was May O. Naise.

The boy she was in love with was X. Sparrow
Gass. He said to her one day: “May, lettuce go down
to the parsnip and get married. You are the apple
of my eye.” May retorted: “Why you big potato, you
know you don’t ’peel to me. Anyway, we couldn’t live
on your celery.” “May, doughnut refuse me. We can
elope and send your fodder a western onion letter.
If you carrot all for me you will say yes.” This
visibly affected May. “But I cantaloupe. Fodder is
away now, but he will probably turnip just in time
to stop us. Even if we did get away and get married
it would simply squash me when he asked me where
we had bean. I wouldn’t ever want to leaf you though.”
However, they did decide to run off to the parsnip
and get married. But Mr. Naise came in and caught
May O. Naise ready to leave, so it was all off.

There were once two colored men sitting under-
neath a spreading shade tree. They were motionless,
eyes closed. But then one of them wiggled his toe.
‘The other one immediately protested: “Sam, can’t
you keep still? Dat’s de second time you moved dat
toe dis mornin’.” The other, some twenty minutes
later, answered, “Well, I ain’t the kind dat can sit
around all day an’ do nothin’.” “Niggah, how did
you ever come out in dat case dey had you in court
‘bout? De one where de train wrecked whilst you
was night watchman.” “Oh, I got out o’ dat all right.
De man axed me did I swing de lantern in front of
de train. I tol’ him, Yassuh, I waved de lantern for
bout ten minutes fo’ de train got to me. He said that
let me out then, and tol’ me to go on home. I sho was
glad he didn’t axe me did I have the lantern lit.”

Voice over phone: Hello, Bary, I heard you hab
a gold. This old sprig weadder sure does gib dem do
one, doesn’t it? Well, now led me gib you some
advice. Take a big dose of gastor oil. Then ged some
hot wader and pud some mustard in it. Soag your
feet in it for aboud an hour and then go do bed.
This method will gure it righd up. It gured mine.
Goo-by, Bary.

“Abe, do you mean to say that you are really sell-
ing your goods below what you pay for them?”
, “Oh, ebsolutle, ebsolutle.”

“But you have been doing this for years. I don’t
see how you make a living doing that.”

“Oh, det is easy to oxplain. You see, I have so veery
much beesiness.”

Madam, I wish you would come and get your child
before he finishes licking all the stripes off our barber
pole. “Mr. Postmaster, is there any mail for me?”
“I don’t know, young man. What is your name?”
“Oh, you'll find it right on the outside of the envelope.”
Central, if I can’t get 500, gimme 499.

’Twas the night of the Grand Opera. Hundreds of
people were gathered to hear the famous baritone.
He was singing with a vehemence that knew no
bounds. Suddenly he stopped and silence reigned. The
spell of the music held the mighty crowd spellbound.
Then a voice from the rear cried, “Is. there a doctor
in the house?” A portly man stood up and answered,
“T am a physician.” “How are you, doc?” returned
the voice.

We will now have a relapse into the field of poetic
fancy. Oh, for the wings of an ostrich! #

Ashes to ashes,
Rust to rust,

Birds in flight,
Sears and Roebuck.

As sure as the vine grows ’round the stump,
I'll sue the wooden leg company.

A motorist was held up by a traffic policeman.
“What's your name?” demanded the cop.
“Abraham O’Brien Goldberg,” replied the man.
“What’s the O’Brien for?” asked the officer.
“For protection,” returned Abraham.

“How did it feel to drop four miles and a half
hanging onto a parachute?”

“Madam, if you must know,” replied the border
aviator, “I had a sinking feeling.”

Cityman (returning to home town) : “What. became
of Percival Splash, the lazy kid who spent all his
time building castles in Spain?” ~

Old Timer: “He’s making a fortune now.”

Cityman; “What’s he doing?”

Old Timer: “Designing filling stations.”

He: “Yes, I’ve been married seven years today.”
She: “Gosh, ‘you must have broken a mirror.”
