‘

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 27, 1930

After Graduation --- Journalism ?

Journalism Discussed Pro and Con By

One Of The Nations Biggest Publishers

Roy W. Howard of Scripps-Howard
Newspapers Writes on Subject

EXACTING PROFESSION

Newspaper Work Pictured as One
of Most Trying Fields—Much
Depends Upon Candidate’s Will

With the same modern tendency to-
ward specialization manifesting itself in
newspaper work as in most other lines,
the would-be journalist is at the outset
forced to elect one of two courses—the
business office or the editorial depart-
ment, Opinions differ widely as to which
is the more desirable avenue of entry for
the beginner. The personality, the ambi-
tions and the objectives of the beginner of
necessity furnish the best, if not the
only, guides,

Twenty-five or thirty-five years ago
there were probably more editor-owners
than otherwise. More recently, as adver-
tising has become more and more of a
national habit, and the economic factor in
production has become a greater con-
sideration, business brains have become
an increasingly important element in suc-
cess. Under the stress of competitive con-
ditions the improvident editor has lost his
control, or been forced to share it with
men of practical ideas and methods.

However, there seems to be a pendulum
swing in journalsm as in many other
changing forces. If it would seem at
present that the direct road to ownership
and control lies through the business office,
there is reasonsto believe that a change
is in order and that as competitive con-
ditions over the past three decades have
forced business office brains into com-
manding positions so, in like manner, will
the demands of competition again bring
the editorial brains to the top;

An editorial renaissance is overdue.
Newspapers have not been improving
their standing in the public esteem as
they should and as they must. The de-
mands of the times and the needs of the
situation are certain to produce the men
who will raise American journalsm, al-
ready the most efficient in the world (ex-
cepting possibly a certain small element
in the British press) to the high level of

efficiency and service which is possible of
attainment.

If quick attainment of a comfortable
salary and fairly regular hours be a
primary desire; if these be backed by a
flare for salesmanship; and if organiza-
tion and executive problems incidental to
money-making constitute attractive if-
ducements for the prospect, first consider-
ation should unquestionably be given to
a business office connection. If a young
man visualized newspaper production as
a business, he should certainly knock for
admission at the business office door.

To the man for whom journalism spells
something far removed from the count-
ing room; to one for whom the term sug-
gests action, romance, adventure, contact
with the most interesting ‘people in the
community, the state or the world; to one
with imagination straining at the leash;
to one with an ability to extract a thrill
of satisfaction from service to others; to
one blest with an observing eye, a logi-
cal mind and the power of transcribing
thoughts and impressions into simple di-
rect English—for ‘such the first port of
call on life’s vocational voyage is cer-
tainly that noisy, cluttered scene of or-
ganized confusion, the city room:

If quick and easy acquisition of a com:
fortable salary on which to “settle down”
be a young man’s immediate objective, he
should avoid the career of a reporter.
This may, and, for the properly equipped,
will come along in time, but in the days
of his novitiate a budding journalist is
very apt to be a liability to his city editor
and his newspaper, rather than an asset.

For the first six months or a year he
will, be fortunate if, his pay envelope is
fat enough to be even a factor in the
weekly interview with his boarding-house
landlady. For this reason, the earlier a
young man can get at the job of serving
out his “sub days” the better. Seventeen
to twenty is none too early to begin to
utilize the vacation months for this serv-

ice—even if, as will probably be the case,
the effort be solely for experience and
carries with it nothing élse in the way of
compensation.

Good advice to every young man who
asks it, is to stay out of newspaper work.
Instead of arguing himself into it he
should try to argue himself out of it. Un-
less it appeals more strongly than any
other vocation it should be avoided. There
are many reasons why it should be avoid-
ed unless the urge is too strong to be
denied. It is hard work. Hours mean noth-
ing. Social and family considerations must
be absolutely put aside—at least during
the early years when a man is seeking to
get himself established. The profession is
a jealous mistress and smiles only on
those who literally live for it. Until a
reputation has been acquired and the par-
ticular qualifications of a man established,
he must, in his own best interest, be ab-
solutely foot free and able to go where
opportunity beckons. A dependent wifdi
is these days is a handicap, not a help.
Nothing can remove the gamble involved
in the question of adaptability.

An ability to write or to use good Eng-

lish is but a small factor. A good city editor
can teach most any one able to use simple
English the actual technique of news-
paper writing. But no one can supply
that prime essential—a “nose for news.”
This ability to sense what is of news
value, i. e., of wide popular appeal or in-
formative, is as much a natural gift as
ability to paint a great portrait, model a
masterpiece of statuary or compose a
symphony.
No one can fabricate “a nose for news”
or teach any one how to acquire one.
Nothing but experience will reveal its
presence or its absence. Once possessed,
it never ceases to function. Its possessor
will be dependent upon it in every subse-
quent development of editorial technique,
whether he evolves as a reporter, a spe-
cial correspondent, an editorial writer, a
critic, a feature writer or an editor-pub-
lisher.

Be certain whether you belong in jour-
nalism at all. It is quicksand for medio-
crity. If you doubt that the heights are
attainable to you, get out—and stay out.

wrong track, but it is worse than stupid
to continue on it.

Determine whether you want to strive
for recognition and reward as a writer or
as an executive. Determine whether you
prefer the small city or the metropolis.
The capital prizes are more numerous,
if smaller, in the lesser cities. The com-
petition is stiffer and the chances of fail-
ure greater; with the honors and the thrills
of success greater, in the major cities. If
your nerve is good (and your talents jus-
tify your nerve) hitch your wagon to a
star and hold onto your seat.

A little time devoted to pre-considera-
tion is better than a lot of time devoted
to vain. regrets. Even while considering
its possible financial returns it is well for
the would-be journalist to remember that
in this profession, as in most of the other
worth-while endeavors of life, he who
figures only on what he is going to take
out is most certainly to be disappointed,
while he who gives most thought to what
he can put into his endeavors in the way
of creative effort and service, is ‘likely to
be surprised at the magnitude of hig divi-
dends—both in satisfaction and in ma-
terial rewards.

DR. WM. M. ANDERSON

(Continued from page 1)
of being the world’s largest radio Bible
Class. He is a member of some very promi-
nent social and fraternal orders.

Doctor Anderson attended Vanderbilt
University and after his first year was elect-
ed as the most popular man in his class.
He received his B.S. degree from the Uni-
versity of Texas, later taking his theologi-
cal training in Austin Seminary.

Dr. Sam Glasgow, who won his way into
the heart of the student body in his evange-
listic services of last. fall writes the Y. M.
GirAs

“I feel that you have secured a royal mind

and heart for your spring series. Be prepared

It is no disgrace to get started on the]

To the Journalist

Those who are interested in Jour-
nalism will find on the Vocational
Guidance table at the “Y” rooms a
most helpful and interesting book-
let, “The Work of the Journalist.”
This discusses in detail every phase
both literary and business, from the
bottom to the top, giving opportu-
nities and salaries. It also outlines
a recommended plan of prepara-
tion. This booklet is highly recom-
mended to the prospective journal-
its. Also catalogues of leading
Schools of Journalism are available
at this table.

Books We Have Read

The Return of the Native—By Thomas
Hardy. Harper and Brothers, Publishers,
New York City—1922.

With so many new novels coming from
the press at the present, there is an in-
clination on the part of a few to neglect
the older ones of established merit. In re-
viewing the novels of the past few dec-
ades, Thomas Hardy’s “Return of the
Native” should not be overlooked.

“It deals with life as found in Egdon
Heath, in south England, a country called
by the name of Wessex by Hardy. In the
novel, the author, as in most of his other
works adopts a pessimistic attitude to-
wards man’s relation to nature. He is in-
fluenced greatly in this attitude by the
philosophy of Schanfenhauer. Man cannot
fight against fate; it will conquer, sub-
due, overwhelm him in the end. So the
characters in this novel are governed by
fate, which is embodied in Egdon Heath.
Back of them lies the Heath, in which
they live. From its influence they cannot
escape, and into its harsh hands they
finally resign themselves. Afl their actions,
and thoughts are colored by the hand of
this opprossor.

The characters are simple folk, who
speak the dialect of their country, which
Hardy has so well reproduced. Their life is
spent in digging peat, and the cultivation
of the shallow soil. They are isolated; and
retain many of the customs and prac-
tices of their forefathers,

The story runs as follows: Thomasin
Yeobright, in love with Damon Wildeve,
after much difficulty, due to the disin-
clination of the prospective bridegroom
is married to him, due to the tactful as-
sistance of Diggory Venn, an admirer of
Thomasin’s. Thomasin’s cousin, Clymm,
returning to the Heath from Paris, where
he has seen the life of a gay world, falls
in love with Eustacia Vye, who, prior to
his coming has carried on an indifferent
affair with Wildeve. In spite of the many
protestations on the part of his mother,
he marries Eustacia and establishes him-
self in a home where he can study, pre-
paratory to opening a school. Eustacia
his wife, possessed with a dislike for his
mother because of her opposition to their
marriage, and Damon Wildeve, the hus-
band of Thomasin, finding married life
not what they expected, start the trouble
that leads to the outcome of the novel.

The novel has a pessimistic attitude. It
has as its unifying feature the “Heath,”
which described as directing the lines of
those who live in it, produces a powerful
effect. A story told in simple language
of simple people, yet grasping a vital
problem of life.

P. B. Fry.

for a most alluring personality and a clear-
cut message.

“Doctor Anderson is quite informal, en-
tirely fascinating, and continually lodges
great vital thoughts with his audience. He
was outstanding at Montreat last summer.”

J. G. BUCHER

There were slides of the magnificent Cologne
cathedral, the Royal Place of Berlin and
other public buildings, and of the picturesque
German landscapes.

The lecture was closed with slides of the
world famous Passion Play held every ten

years at Obramaugau.

Davidson—Week by
Week

By Gosh

(With all due apologies to
O. O. McIntyre)

Diary of a college Pepys—Up at the
first sound of the rising bell, much against
my will, and dressed hurriedly. To break-
fast at a college boarding house and
eagerly devoured several warm wheat
cakes, followed by an intermittent quaf-
fing of hot java. Why is breakfast so bare
of conversation?

Rushed down to the Post Office and
knifed my way through the milling group,
only to find a dusty and empty mail box.
Although disgruntled, the last bell seemed
an impetus to forget my luck, and I trod
the lane to Chambers. A last glance at
the text saved me in my first class, but I
got “shot” in the next two albeit I had
studied both thoroughly the night before.

To lunch and was gratified with some
hot potatoes and beef stew, what with
heapings of slaw, was the best meal I
have had in a fortnight, and so loitered
about bulling with a group of students,
and so tiring of the fusilade, made way
to the dormitory where I very quickly
hid Mrs, Smith’s reportsof the condition
of my room, ere a taunt should spy it.

Studied, slept, a set of tennis, and then
to supper. Came a friend who carried me
to a literary society meeting; enjoyed a
fine program, To my room where I read
parallel and so to bed.

Wiehe

If one wishes to spend a pleasant eve-
ning listening to an interesting narrator,
they should seek Neil McGeachy. Last

summer Neil went to Los Angeles to at-
tend a Kappa Sigma conclave, and spent
two months for the round trip which al-
most thoroughly covered the United
States, and extended into Canada and
Mexico.

Of course, his stay in the movie center
proved to be an active one, and he had
several glimpses of the leading cinema
stars. It seems that his favorite story con-
cerns Mary Brian, whom he claims “sort
of horsed” him. Neil was just comment-
ing to the actress while dancing with her,
about how much he enjoyed the dance.

“Oh well,” she sighed, “I guess it’s my
job to dance with everybody.”

aes geet

After a rapid survey of the student
directory, it sems that we have only four
aristocrats enrolled in Davidson. J. V. D.
Middleton and R. E. C. Roane caught my
first view and then it was revealed that
C. W. F. Spencer and J. S. W. Hartsell
conclude the sophisticated group.

Wi WE ce

Thad Brock, ‘diminutive captain of the
last year’s football team and who is con-
sidered one of the best ends in the south,
has been revealed as an unmerciful ob-
ject of “fan mail.” After his famous 103-
yard run in the Duke game last Thanks-
giving in which he failed to tally only by
a few feet and for which he received na-
tional mention, Thad has been receiving
mail from unknown fans continually.
Brock was forced to admit that Davidson
has plenty of feminine fans, but he as-
serted that the majority of the corres-
pondents were alumni and friends, Pos-
sibly Thad is a probable contender to the
position for which Roy Reigels of Cali-
fornia has been acclaimed—the greatest
receiver of “fan mail” in college this year.

$29.50
The Spring Holidays

Spring furnishings.

STETSON “D” STORE

Opposite Campus
Felephone 206

order for that Spring Suit. Complete Line of

Sincerely,

RAY HARRISON

ft

— $34.50

are Near. Place your

+

Stationery
Books

Magazines

Superior Soda Service

W.S. HENDERSON

Fountain Pens
Felt Goods

Sundries

MAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAADAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAS

Monday and Tuesday, March 31 and April 1
Happy Days

Wednesday and Thursday
Montana Moon

with
JEAN CRAWFORD ;

Davidson Theatre

Friday

Free and Easy

Saturday
Why Hang. That Up

wi
Moran and Mack
