LECTURE ON Ey
~@ee THE DAVIDSONIAN -2:2-
See aoouine

‘ IN RICHMOND
“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”
Vol. XVII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 8, 1930 No. 28

Dr. W.J. Martin Chosen
Pres. Of Presbyterian
Institution at Richmond

Doctor Martin is Graduate and
President Emeritus of
Davidson

LEADER IN CHURCH WORK

Is to Take Position Formerly Oc-
cupied by Dr. W. L. Lingle

Dr. William Joseph Martin, president-
emeritus of Davidson, ‘was named president
of the Presbyterian Assembly Training
School on May 2. He was chosen by the
board of trustees of the institution. Dr.
Martin has long been associated with Da-
vidson. He was president from 1912 to 1929
and is nationally known as a chemist of
high rank. Dr. Martin fills the position left
vacant by Dr. Walter L. Lingle in coming
to Davidson. For many years he has been
a prominent figure in the Southern Presby-
terian Church, having been named Modera-
tor of the General Assembly in 1914 and
also a member of many important commit-
tees in the Church work.

The Assembly Training School is doing
a great work in the training of lay work-
ers, both men and women, for every depart-
ment in the Church work, Large numbers
of graduates have gone to foreign mission
fields and home mission training is one of
the chief assets of the school. Dr. Martin
was unanimously elected by the committee
to take the president’s chair because he was
the most logical man to capably fill the po-
sition.

Life of Wilson To
Be Presented Here

On Friday night, May 9th, at 7:30,
through the modern miracle of the motion
picture, Woodrow Wilson, who, at Davidson
laid the foundation of his great career, will
return and give a true report of that career
in detail.

The scenes depicted include: the two in-
augurations, the President’s private life in
the White House, his official duties, his ef-
forts “to keep us out of war,” the declara-
tion of war in Congress, bona fide scenes
of actual battle, his several trips abroad in
negotiation for the establishment of world
peace, his return and welcome in New York,
his collapse and relinquishment of office and
last public appearance, as well; as many
other scenes.

Each State may get a permanent copy of
the film by buying it for $5,000. Many in-
stitutions and States have already secured
copies, and several North Carolina institu-
tions are seriously considering getting them.

Reports from people who have already
seen the film say that it is only comparable
to a visit from the President himself. It has
been shown in New York, Chicago and other
large cities to capacity audiences at prices
ranging from five dollars down. The admis-
sion here will be only thirty-five cents.

New Members of Board
Of Control Are Chosen

Professor Schenck, Sisson, Martin,
and McKinnon Are Chosen

Elections for the Y. M. C. A. Board of
Control were concluded last week. Profes-
sor Lewis B. Schenck was elected faculty
member over Prof. J. P. Williams. Charlie
Sisson, of Winona, Miss., was elected Senior
member over A. R. Jackson, of Williamsport,
Pa., on the second ballot. Grier Martin, of
Covington, Ga., and Jack McKinnon, of
Jacksonville, Fla., were elected Junior mem-
bers over Horace Erwin, New York City;
J. D. McConnell, Davidson, and Nat Spier,
of Charlotte. Martin was elected on the
first ballot and McKinnon on the third.

Professor Schenck, associate professor of
religious education, came to Davidson in
1927. Since that time he has become one
of the most popular professors on the hill.
Sisson, a member of Phi Gamma Delta, so-
cial fraternity, is a member of the Court of

Glee Club Selects

Ramseur President

J. H. “Jack” Ramseur was elected presi-
dent of the Davidson College Glee Club at
a meeting of the club last Wednesday night
in Shearer Hall. He succeeds C. C. Orr as
the head of the organization. Prof. E. J.
Cullum will again direct the club next year.

H. J. McMillan will succeed R. B. Mc-
Dermid as business manager, and R. B. Orr
and E. Z. Dubose were elected vice-presi-
dents to take the places of J. A. Cannon, Jr.,
and J. H. Ramseur.

Ramseur, the new president, is one of the
most prominent musicians on the campus. In
addition to his work in the Glee Club, of
which he has been a member for three years,
he sings in the quartet, and plays a saxo-
phone in the Sunnyland Serenaders, David-
son’s jazz orchestra. He is a member of Mu
Beta Psi, honorary musical fraternity.

The work of engaging next year’s con-
certs will begin much sooner next year, ac-
cording to Ramseur. The variety program
which was so successfully presented on the
trips this year will again be used next year.

Smith and Rusk To
Run Student Store

Co-operation of Student Body Urged
by Managers of Store

Upon the recent election of Lawrence
Smith and Dean Rusk as incoming managers
of the Davidson Student Store, this con-
cern enters upon its seventh consecutive year
of service on the campus. As the retiring
managers, Eugene Smith and Frank Gaffney,
release the control of the store, they leave
a request to the student body in general,
that they continue their loyal support of the
store as well under the new management
as they have in the past, and that they re-
member that, while the prices at the Student
Store are no lower than at the town stores,
yet the money spent there will go to the
support of -a cause, the financing of which
would otherwise devolve on them later as
alumni.

The goal before the Student Store is the
construction of an indoor swimming pool
for the students, the cost of which has been

rset at $40,000.00. Towards this mark, the

store has accumulated over $8,500.00, and it
is the expressed belief of the managers, both
retiring and incoming, that next year holds
promise of a considerable boost in profit, and
in the ultimate realization of the success of
the plan.

Since the year of its establishment, in the
fall of 1924-25, the Student Store has re-
tained its same location down by the power-
house; and the system of supervision has
consisted of a Board of Control, with two
faculty, and three student, representatives.
However, due to the out-of-the-way location
of the store, much discussion has taken place
as to moving it to a more advantageous
position. According to the managers, con-
structive advice from members of the stu-
dent body will be appreciated, and gladly
considered, whether it deal with this, or any
‘other phases of the operation of the store.
They urge the students to remember that
the store belongs absolutly to them, and,
bearing this in mind, they should feel it their
responsibility to help out in any way they
can to make it a success, all the while cog-
nizant of the worthwhileness of the goal that
has been set for it.

Control, and an advertising manager of the
1929-30 Quips and Cranks. Martin, Sigma
Alpha Epsilon, is a managing editor of The
Davidsonian for 1930-31, and a member of
Le Circle Francaise. McKinnon is a solicitor
on The Davidsonian business staff, and a
member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, social fra-
ternity.

This election completes the memberships
for the Board of Control. The old members
who will retain their office are as follows:
Faculty, Dr. H. B. Arbuckle and Mr. F. L.
Jackson; Senior members, Jas. A. Jones,
and S. S. Wiley, and Rev. H. M. Moffett
member ex-officio. The new “Y” president,
Dean Rusk, becomes a member by virtue of
his office. C. R. Pritchett, the new secretary,
will succeed Camper O'Neal as the other

(Continued on page 4)

Julian Miller, Charlotte
Editor, Speaks To Newly
Elected O.D.K. Members

Dangers of Machine Age Enumer-
ated by the Speaker

FIVE HONORARY MEMBERS

Old and New Members of O. D. K.
Entertained at Banquet in
Chambers
“The social suppression brought on by
mechanics in industry is at the root of much
of today’s industrial discontent,” tonight
declared Julian Miller, editor of The Char-
lotte News, in speaking before the David-
son College members of the Delta Chapter
of Omicron Delta Kappa, national honor-
ary leadership fraternity, at their annual
spring initiation ceremonies.

Mr. Miller added that “when one yields
the creative’ instincts, as one is forced to
yield it under the mechanic .compulsions of
our civilization, one unconsciously drifts into
the state of a robot, pulseless, lifeless, con-
scienceless.”

In beginning his address, the speaker
pointed out that 75 per cent of the leaders
of our nation are today coming from that
one-half of one per cent of educated men,
and whether they realized it or not, “the
imprimatur of leadership which has been laid
upon them by common sanction and experi-
ence is irremovable. The concrete issues that
are calling for distinctivé leadership and is-
suing their challenge to the mightiest capaci-
ties of our cultured manhodd are three, name-
ly, the mechanism ,the materialism, and the
humanism of modern life.”

The Charlotte editor stated that “the
mechanizing of our civilization has intrigued
us so, that mechanical emphasis threatens
to become a Juggernaut over which its crea-
tors have lost control. Life has become a
matter of standardization, of groving itself
within hollow empty channels to the loss of
initiative, to the subjection of personality,
and to the utter subservience of qualities of
individualism.” To combat this is “one of
the insistent challenges to léadership of this
generation.”

The value of education has become to be
measured in its dollar and tents value, and
the culture which the old Grecks put about
their young men.can no lofiger be given in
our American colleges, he continued. -‘*Edu-
cation for educatgon’s sake, knowledge that
serves to enrich life, a cultdre that is lifted
far above the low levels of mere mercen-
ariness—these things have passed out of our
experiences.”

“The all-sufficiency of the human power—
power of will, power of mentality, power of
physical prowess—is resulting in the polite
bowing of the supernatural out of the equa-
tions of life. God is being diminished and
the place of spirituality in life is questioned
under the tremendous gains in knowledge
which have been registered in the last dec-
ade.” The condition was characterized as the
“humanism that pervades our intellectual
thought.”

Mr. Miller stated that in these three things
lay the challenge to the leadership which is
emerging from colleges and universities, the
leadership of men upon whom is being placed
the mark of supremacy.”

The address of the Charlotte editor fol-
lowed a private initiation when five honor-
ary members and eleven students were in-
ducted into the fraternity. The former were
Julian Miller, of Charlotte; Dr. Robert
W. McKay, of Charlotte, alumnus of Da-
vidson; J. Caldwell McDonald, of Charlotte,
also an alumnus.

After the public exercises, the new and
old members of Omicron Delta Kappa were

(Continued on page 4)

Correction

Instead of being on Friday after-
noon, May 30, as was given in the
examination schedule, the examina-
tion in French A, 1, and 2 will be on
Sati:rday morning, May 31. The
mistake was due to a typographical
error by the printer. The remainder
of the schedule is unchanged.

Handbook for 1930
To Appear Aug. 1st

An announcement was made recently by
Paul Alderman, editor of the “Wildcat
Handbook,” to the effect that the next year's
book would possibly be out by August 1, and
not later than August 5,

R. W. Gorrell is the business manager and
the editorial staff is as follows: Journal
Information, P. S. Knox; Y. M. C. A., C. F,
Myers; Fraternities, N. B. Dicks; Student
Activities, N. Raies; Athletics,.\W. H. Mat-
thews, and Songs and Yells, B. W. Mosely.

The Journal Information will include the
faculty members and also the tips to Fresh-
men, This section is very important, because
it gives the Freshmen their first impres-
sion of Davidson and in some way helps to
create that famous Wildcat spirit. The Y. M.
C, A. section is concerning the organization
and work of that institution. The Fraternity
section includes both social and honorary
fraternities. The Student Activity section
gives the names of the different campus ac-
tivities and the leaders of each. The Ath-
letic section gives last year’s scores and other
information about the athletic teams. The
last section, Songs and Yells, is very im-
portant, since the Freshmen are supposed to
know some of the songs and yells before
they arrive on the campus.

/

The handbook will be essentially the same
as last year, but there will be a few changes.
For one thing, there will be a few more cuts
than in the last edition.

German Fraternity
Has First Meeting

German Music is Feature of Pro-
gram at Doctor Vowle’s Home

The first meeting of Epsilon Chapter of
Delta Phi Alpha was held on Wednesday
night, April 23, at the home of Dr. G. R.
Vowles, thus inaugurating the German hon-
orary fraternity at Davidson. No formal ini-
tiation or inaugural rites will be held until
there are ten chapters included in the na-
tional order. At present there are six chap-
ters which are Wofford, the Alpha Chapter,
Central College in Missouri, Bates College in
Maine, Berea ‘College in Kentucky, and Da-
vidson.

The first meeting was an enjoyable one
which started off with the business and end-
ed up with refreshments. The business for
the most part was an election of-officers, who
are H. A. Cox, president; W. W. Beatty,
vice-president, and J. N. Truesdale, secre-
tary-treasurer. Following the business a de-
lightful and unique program of music was
furnished by Dr. Vowles in the form of
victrola records of famous German songs.
At the close of this entertainment refresh-
ments were served.

The purpose of this fraternity is to co-
operate in an effort to stimulate an interest
in the German language in American col-
leges and to revive it as a course of study
as it was in pre-war days. This national
organization was started recently and has al-
ready gained six chapters.

There are two faculty members and four-
teen student members of the local chapter.
The faculty members are Dr. G. R. Vowles
and J. N. Truesdale of the German depart-
merit. The fourteen students are as follows:
W. W. Beatty, J. B. Black, H. A. Cox, W.
M. Croker, N. B. Dicks, W. W. Franklin,
J. H. Henderlite, W. A. Howard, Zeb V.
Long, W. A. Mason, H. S. Munroe, H. F.
Nichol, James Watt, J. W. Williams.

Local Girl Appears

In Amateur Drama

Miss Elizabeth Thompson, of Davidson,
a student at North Carolina College, will
appear in the Play-Liker production, “After
Dark,” by Dion Boucicault, which will be
given in Aycock Auditorium, Greensboro,
Saturday night, May 10, at 8:30 o'clock.

This is Miss Thompson's first appearance
with the Play-Likers. She will play the role
of a London singer and dancer.

The Play-Likers Association is the dra-
matic organization of the State School for

(Continued on page 5)

Awards For Distinction
Given Outstanding Men

In Annual Athletic Night

Trophies, Certificates, and Souvenirs
|Presented to Outstanding
Athletes

DOUGHERTY MAKES TALK

Three Special Trophies Presented
Jackson Including Richardson
Cup and Distinction Cup

On last Tuesday night, May 6, the David-
son College Athletic Association sponsored
“Athletic Night,” an annual event dedicated
to the recognition of outstanding achieve-
ment in the field of athletics.

After the invocation by Dr. H. M. Mof-
fett, colleg@ pastor, and the singing, in uni-
son, of “O Davidson,” Lt. Col. W. R. Scott,
head of the Davidson R. O. T. C. unit, pre-
sented gold footballs to those men meriting
such distinction for their ‘stellar playing on
the gridiron last fall. Then followed the
award of athletic certificates in football,
wrestling, basketball, tennis, track, baseball,
and the cheer leader. These were presented
after a short presentation speech by Prof.
Fred K. Fleagle, dean of the Summer School.

Following these awards, Mr. F. L. Jack-
son, college treasurer, presented three spe-
cial trophies. The first was the Lunsford
Richardson Cup, given annually to the stu-
dent showing the greatest increase in physi-
cal measurement. This went to W. J. Davis,
‘33, of Rome, Ga. The second trophy, given
each year to the high point man in the open
gymnastic competition, was won by F. R.
Brown, °30, of Greensboro, N. C. The third,
and probably the most highly prized, was
the Athletic, Distinction Cup, awarded to
that athlete who brings the greatest distinc-
tion to the college during the current year.
This went to Thad Brock, °31.

Thad. Brock, retiring grid captain, then
presented three footballs to the college. Two
of these were victory footballs, one from
N. C. State and one from Duke University,
while the third was given Davidson by Army
for the “fighting sportsmanship displayed in
the Davidson-Army game.”

Next followed the presentation by Dr. J.
M. McConnell of an’ alumni gold football
to Il. P. Graham, '08, Cooleemee, N. C., a
member of the Alumni Athletic Council.

Following this, and comprising the fea-
turé of the evening, was a stirring speech by
Prof. N. W. Doughtery, chairman of the
Athletic Council at the University of Ten-
nessee. “Despite the evils attendant to foot-
ball,” said Professor Doughtery, “the game
will continue to be played because it is an
excellent public spectacle and because the
students want it.” The speaker, who is a
prominent leader in southern athletics and is
connected with the National Intercollegiate
Association, chose as his subject “Football
in American Colleges.’ He ably presented
both sides of the debated question as to the
good and evils of the gridiron game, which
has come to occupy a pre-eminent place in
the life of colleges and universities, and

(Continued on page 4)

Business Staff of
Davidsonian Chosen

Acording to an announcement made by
J. A. Cannon, recently appointed business
manager of The Davidsonian, ten men have
been appointed to the business staff of the’
paper. Four of these, Conway, Baker, Ste-
vens, and Montgomery, will be assistant man-
agers, having been selected from the rising
Junior Class.

P. M. Conway is a member of the Sigma
Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. He is cap-
tain-elect of the wrestling team and a mem-
ber of the varsity football squad. A. J. Baker
is a meinber of Sigma Alpha Epsilon. He is
on the varsity football squad and’a member
of the Student Council. J. B. Stevens is a
member of Beta Theta Pi. A. G. Montgom-

‘ery is a member of Phi Gamma Delta.

The following men have been appointed
as solicitors of the staff and were chosen
from the rising. Sophomore Class: W. R.
Morrow, A. L. Mebane, A. M. Manson, P.
M. Brown, R. W. Falls, and B. C.: Parks.
