ee

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 15, 1930

3

Pickups and Passes
By
W. H. Matthews

Journey's End

During this week and the first part of
next, all of Davidson’s athletic tearms
which have not already done so will close
their 1930 seasons. The varsity baseball
nine plays its final contest this afternoon
with Duke, following their two games
the early part of the week. The track
team put away their togs about ten days
after the state track meet. The golfers
have a match carded for Monday with
N. C. State, which will be their last. The
tennis team closed its spring series of
matches about two weeks ago.

t

All the freshman squads closed their
schedules last week. The basball and
tennis teams played their last oppo-
nents Saturday, and the track team
had already had their last meet two
weeks ago, except for those men who
composed the relay team at Greens-
boro. The only activity on the track
during the last week or so has been
the Sigma Delta Psi contestants try-
ing out in the various events.

Sigmia Delta Psi

Speaking of Sigma Delta Psi, we feel
that it is one of the best things that has
been founded im at Davidson in quite a
while. It is reallW/an honorary fraternity
that is active, and operates for real good
of its members and every one else on the
campus, Although one may not be able to
pass the requirements for membership,

the effort expended will certainly be
worthwhile. ;

When Captain Pfitchett first presented
the fraternity to the student body last year,
he pointed out that although none of the
qualifications were remarkably high,
judged by record performances, yet any-
one who could pass all of them was a
good all-around athlete. The truth of his
statements has been borne out by the
fact that there have been only three men
at Davidson who have become members,
only one of whom is now in college.

The interest of the students in the
organization is high. Over 75 men are
trying out for it at present. Whether
they make it or not does not limit the
value which it will do them, and for
that reason the good of the frater-
nity here at Davidson is increased. It
is the only honorary fraternity which
gives a distinct benefit to everyone
who goes out for it, whether they
eventually become members or not.

Wanted: More Dubs

Mr. Grantland Rice, one of the fore-
most sportswriters of today, discusses
rather fully in last week’s issue of Col-
lier’s the subject of a college man learn-
ing, while still in college, some sport
which he can use when he gets into Bust
ness. Mr. Rice points out the fact that
football, basketball, and other intercol-
legiate sports are limited almost wholly
in their play to colleges, and one whom
-plays them alone will find himself lost
when he seeks exercise and diversion
from his vocation.

The advice and views of that au-
thority are well worth listening to,
and he has brought out a’fact that is

Game With Blue Devils
To End Wildcat Season

Six Regulars Play This Last Game
for Davidson

Today's game with Duke University
terminates the present baseball season
for the Davidson College nine. This en-
counter with the Blue Devils marks the
end of the season for the Wildcats in
which they have won about half of the
scheduled games. All in all considering
the injuries sustained by some of Coach
Monk Younger’s stars, the difficult
schedule of the Wildcats, and the inability
to strike a successful stride during the
season, a fairly good year is evident.

The Duke team is bringing with them
today probably the strongest collegiate
outfit in the South. Twenty victories mark
their busy season as fruitful, and under
the direction of Coach Jack Coombs, for-
mer big league luminary,’ only a small
proportion of the games have been lost.
The Blue Devils returned about two
weeks ago, from a northeastern trip
where they trounced many leading college
nines,

Four outstanding stars promise to be a
menace to the Wildcat crew. Farley, Kist-
ler, Warren and Werber, are a group of
sluggers who hit in the pinches. Jenkins,
who will probably pitch today, is the ace
hurler of the Durham team. He is a south-
paw, as is another star twirler on the
Devil's squad, Lefty Hawkins. Both are
particularly stingy in offering hits. Werber
and Jenkins are being sought after by
major league scouts, which is an indi-
cation of their diamond prowess. There
is no doubt that a Davidson crowd will
witness a splendid array of baseball tal-
ent when the two teams begin the game.

Six men on the varsity squad will play
their last game for Davidson today:
“Bill” Parrish, “Irish” McInnis, “Whiz”
Miller, “Doc” Kugler, Captain, “Happy
Gladstone, and “Doc” Henderson. Every
one of the above names have performed
brilliantly during their varsity careers, and
if any freshmen prospects are to supplant
them, they must show real ability.

Phi Gams Capture
Basketball Trophy

The Phi Gamma Delta fraternity de-
feated the Sigma ,Alpha Epsilon Frater-
nity in the finals of the inter-fraternity
basketball tournament by the score of
26-21. The Phi Gams by this victory re-
ceive the cup for the championship given

=
very true. Business men go to the golf
links today to get their exercise, and
even to transact their deals. More big
jobs than one have been decided be-
tween the first tee and eighteenth—
or nineteenth—green. A man who can
play a respectable game of golf will
find it greatly to his advantage. And
the same thing applies to tennis.

These two sports are probably the most
popular on the Davidson campus. If you
doubt it, try to get a tennis court about
four o'clock, or play a round of golf with-
out dodging balls of two or three four-
somes behind you. The college has co-
operated wonderfully in the construction
of 14 tennis courts, and in laying out and
maintaining a golf course which, though
it will never be selected for a national
championship, still affords excellent train-

ing ground for divot diggers.

b° EN’ TORS
NOW IS THE TIME TO HAVE YOUR EN-
GRAVED CARDS MADE. SEE ME.
Best Quality and Prices
— Any — of Printing

ERNEST H. McCALL
108 Watts

Representing
STANDARD PRINTING CO.
Charlotte, N. €.

“Doc” Kugler Blanks
Blue Devils, 5 to 0

Wildcats Play Errorless Ball and Hit
in the Pinches

Behind the excellent pitching of Capt.
“Doc” Kugler, the Davidson Wildcats
were able t ohand the Dike Blue Devils
their first shut-out in three years of play.
The ’Cats made eight hits count for five
runs in their 5 to 0 victory. The Duke
nine was completely baffled’ by the slants
of Kugler. Werber and Rochelle were the
only Duke batters to get more than one

by the Pan-Hellenic Council.

The whole Phi Gam team outplayed
the S. A. E'S throughout the contest. The
stars for the winners were Ale#’.Mont-
gomery and Johnny Creech, who scored
nine and eight points respectively. Tom
Brohard also got six points to increase
the lead of the victors.

Mac Manson and Grier Martin were the
stars for the S. A. E.’s, obtaining eleven
and eight points respectively. The losers
played well together, and constantly

threatened the winners.
Lineup:

Phi Gamma Delta ___-_-------------:- 26
(SheeOhW oh noescetee sola Loccaweeucsaeed 8
INMVONtHOMENN) i - sebceeconcauuecesueoue 9
BrOnandnOm euccssvee a oleocuewomee 6
MIGGinen Git sucwse one he ae eleeencussae 0
Meal =O) svt aewawaeceweawaeueNeuanaus 3
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ---------2------- 21
MANSON he taccl acon cceccaedecu busses 11
IMVERSe UN caeotaus {coel ere csdgaeeene 2
IMMARCIN (Cy Seen anne Eon Sate Coes Suni 8
IMINONI Gyice sc coueig oe eeeueeee ee ck 0
Gla nkiG cued. res ae epee sowe 0

Substitutions: Phi Gamma Delta: Rule;

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: McAllister.

safe blow. McInnis was the hitting feature
of the day, getting three safe blows out
of five attempts.

Box score and summary:

Davidson ABRHOA
annie GD! sduccsswecuuducs cee bane Gey? 453 |
MIMeS< Clicpecc cccugwbucecus 30061
GOodsOn, 2b sec 40 0 3 3
HPOCtOl Lb) Sree ccsbaucdeue 4.0 F551
INGUIN) lf a2 sbeoc eoeue Oe 5.00
GOVINO) CG ccneduusuduawe Brel 7a)
GIRGStONG: Pes csek seeks Cel.) 2eeU
McMillan, ss ...2-..\.-.. O20) li eZ
INSURER ap ee see es seals ae 3010 °0
MOCAIS: Voce bdecuossu cess SeaG LE on 8r e722 9

Duke eee: A
Harrington; cf 25 sc... 3 0 0
Dean, 2b ---..--2- micesucts 4 0 3

WVGhGh;, (SS vcculucuadcuades 40
INStGt glib eekos vacecus dees 4 0
Rochelle; rh sooo oo e cco cce 40

Murray, If

Haley. -Ob saesccueesclee 3.0 K
Wannely ©: cusceccenueceuss 20 1
MAWKING) Pp cecccosseeeusue 3 0 3

ficials

State Secures Van Liew
To Succeed Gus Tebell

When Davidson lines up against the
N. C. Wolfpack next fall in Greensboro
they will probably be matching brains and
brawn with the highly touted Rockne sys-
tem. For North Carolina State College of-
have recently named John Van
Liew as successor to Gus Tebell as head
football coach,

The newly named coach, although noth-
ing definitely has been stated, is known
to be familiar with the Notre Dame style
and moreover Dr. Ray Sermon, director of
athletics at State, has been casting some
sly hints in that direction.

Van Liew comes to State with the back-
ing of years of experience, having at-
tended Grinnel College in Iowa and be-
sides his coaching duties at Knox College
in Illinois and Western State College in
Colorado has coached scholastic teams
in Des Moines, his native city, and Cham-
paign. During the past year he has been
director of athletics in Peru for the Peru-

Totals euckuucsc cluaeenuawee 30 0 6 27 19 vian Government.
WAVIUSON meccuccwe ce sonuS 100 200 020—5 Van Liew will assume his duties next
Duke -..--- GicsucCenk eas 000 000 O00—O} fall
Stationery Fountain Pens
Books Felt Goods
» e e ‘
Magazines Sundries

Superior Soda Service

W.S. HENDERSON

he luxury of Camels

costs no more

DON’T DENY YOURSELF the enjoyment of smoking Camels. You pay
as much whatever you buy. Why not have the real smoke-luxury
that Camels alone can give?

Into this familiar package goes all the mellow, natural fragrance,
all the mildness, all the delicately blended aroma and richness—in
short, all the true smoking delight that twenty cigarettes can possibly
contain. No frills on the package. The extras you get with Camels are
in the marvelous quality of the cigarettes themselves.

Camels have won a wider friendship among the millions who appre-
ciate the luxury of a perfect smoke than any other cigarette ever made.

Don’t deny yourself the luxury of

AMELS

© 1930, R. J. Reynolds Tobecco
Company, Winston-Salem, N. C.
