FINAL BASEBALL } COMMENCEMENT
GAME WITH DUKE ‘ PROGRAM
SATISFACTORILY
TODAY . FILLED
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”
Vol. XVII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 15, 1930 No. 29

Quips and Cranks of 1930
Appears on Campus Today

New Book, Smaller in Size, is More
Expensive and Colorful Than its
Predecessors

DEDICATED TO DR. MARTIN

Pratt and Hill Head Able Staff in
Producing Book

In accord with an announcement made
Monday by C. M. Pratt, Editor, and W.
R. Hill, Business Manager, the 1930 volume
of Quips and Cranks makes its appear-
ance today. This terminates the banner
week for Davidson literary publications.

Although the néw year book is a few
pages smaller in size, yet it is the most
expensive annual to be produced here up
to this time. Consequently, it is somewhat
smaller in: appearance. It is dedicated to
Dr. W. J. Martin, former president of the
college and who has recently accepted
the presidency of the Assembly Training
School in Richmond.

Chief among the features noticed inthe
Quips and Cranks is the colorful display
presented. Barring none, it is the most
tinted number that has ever made its
debut at Davidson, Second only to the
color is the art work which is more va-
ried than hertofore. A new idea was
presented in the fraternity section with
“life-size” pictures of the respective pins.
These will be at the disposal of future
editors.

Those few who have seen a copy de-
clare that it lacks a great many smaller
errors, chiefly of a typographical nature,
which frequently mark a work of this
nature. All together there are fewer mis-
takes than usual. It will also be noted by
students that there has been room pro-
vided for fraternity sponsors in addition
to the customary ones. Last year’s col-
legiate beauty section was omitted.

All printing and engraving was done by
the Queen City Printing and Engraving
Company, Charlotte, while White Studios,
New York, were responsible for the pho-
tographic work. Those students interested
in procuring extra editions should
either W. R. Hill or R. M. King.

see

Davidson Violinists
To Broadcast Soon

Will Give Weekly Performances on
Sunday Over Station WBT

On Sunday evening, May’ 18th, the
violin quartette wiH broadcast over WBT,
Charlotte, the first of its series of Sun-
day evening programs. The fifteen min-
utes allotted to the quartette, from 7:15
to 7:30, will allow four or perhaps five
light classical selections, among which are
likely to be a Song of Spring, Two Fin-
nish Folk Songs, Romance and Tam-
bourine, and perhaps a heavier number,
such as a selection from a Tschaikowsky
symphony, all specially arranged for a
quartette of violins.

Although the quartette. will not play
over the air more than twice or three
SIX—A—DAV

times this school year, they hope to con-
tinue their radio work next year more
extensively, with the same members, who
are: first violin, Charles Orr; second,
Robert Orr; third, Horace Ervin; fourth,
Don Leeper. Continuance of the same
playing combination will be made pos-
sible by the return of. Charles Orr, a sen-
ior, for graduate work. It is planned that
a great deal more music, varied moods
and rhythms, will be purchased and that

~ opportunity will be afforded them to play
at: teas, dinners, and other sociai oc-
casions.

The violin quartette is a recently re-
vived combination designed to substitute
for the regular string quartette (which in-
cludes two violins, viola, and ’cello). It is
indeed a fortunate arrangement for
communities: lacking either a viola or a

‘cello, which parts are taken by the third
: (Continued on page six) '

Mothers Eulogized
In Vesper Address

“A mother’s love is the deepest of all
earthly loves,” Mrs. Ramsay, popular pres-
ident of Mitchell College stated last Sun-
day evening at the Mother's Day serv-
ices held in Shearer Hall. This was one of
the most impressive and helpful of all the
mother’s day exercises and took its place
among the leading vesper services of the
year. Both red and white roses were much
in evidence scattered among the large
crowd of students that attended this ves-
per service,

Mrs. Ramsay went on further to say
that in ancient times, especially in the
oriental countries, women were not re-
spected much but were suppressed and
kept on a lower level than man, but now
in the Christian countries they were look-
ed up to and idealized by mankind.
Women owe their present status to Chris-
tianity, She voiced an earnest appeal that
women everywhere would rededicate their
lives to Christ and to°bringing up a new
generation fearing the Lord. And then in
appealing that the students as sons re-
dedicate their lives to their
simple loving service to them she had her
audience repeat the Fifth Commandment.
She also cited Christ’s care and thought
for his mother even in a dreadful but
glorious moment as an example of the al-
legiance-and love due mother, Every day
of every year should not differ in a show-
ing of love and respect for our mothers
but the setting aside of ene special day
calls us from our worldly cares to an ex-
hibition of our esteem which is so joyful
to mothers.

mothers in

Twenty-six Men Expect

To Go To R.O.T.C. Camp

Instruction at Camp is Required of
All Advance Students

From June 10th to July 21, inclusive,
the annual R. O. T. C. training camp will
be held at Fort McClellan, Anniston, Ala.
Lieu. Col. W. R. Scott, now"in charge of
the Davidson unit, will be the command-
ing officer. The purpose of the camp, as
stated in the Camp Bulletin of General
Instructions, is: “To supplement the mili-
tary and technical training received by
members of the Reserve Officers Train-
ing Corps at institutions, with the fur-
ther practical training in the tactics and
adminfstration of troop units which will
qualify them for commissions of the Of-
ficers Reserve Corps.” Instruction will be
given to each student along the lines of
Physical Training, First Aid and Hygiene,
Administration and Supply, Inspections
and Ceremonies, Drill and Command,
Marksmanship, Musketry and Combat fir-

ing, Scouting and Patrolling Combat
(Continued on page six)

Ten Leading Freshmen
Chosen for Beaver Club

At a meeting of the members of O. D.
K. last Tuesday evening the following
men in the rising Sophomore class were
elected to the Beaver Club: P. F. Brown,
J. B. Clark, J. D. Enochs, W. A. Flinn,
J. R. Howards, J. E. Lake, R. L. Mc-
Callie, W. A. Mcbane, C. M. Norfleet,
and E. B Peabody.
| The Beaver Club is a Sophomore honor
society which is composed of ten of the
outstanding men in the Sophomore class.
Twenty men are recomended by the mem-
bers of the preceding Beaver Club, and
O. D. K. selects ten of these. Jt is the
duty of these men to entertain the mem-
bers of the visiting athletic teams. Their
work is especially prominent in the af-
fairs of Homecoming Day, and other such
occasions of’the year.

English Professor Gives
Criticism of Magazine

All of the Varied Fields of Litera-
ture Covered by Contributors to
Chameleon

EXCELLENT TALENT

Each Article is Reviewed Separately
By Professor Lilly

Those undergraduates who are engaged
in literary work at Davidson have not
forgotten the old motto that “Variety is
the spice of life.’ A perusal of the stories
in the May issue of The Chameleon ac-
quaints us with life on a ranch and in a
prison in the Northwest, with tavern and
garden. experiences in Bagdad, with a love
affair in the mountains of Arizona, with
the intimate family of an aristocratic
group in Ye Merrie Olde England, with
degraded conditions in postwar Russia
and with a love affair among the colleg-
iates which has its incipiency in Fair Har-
vard and bursts to full blossom in the
Midwest. The poetry portion of this issue
does not lag behind in monotony in that
we have in more or less proper propor-
tions the easy cadence of free verse, the
finished metrical polish of the sonnet and
the rollicking abandon of a tarrative
verse in the manner of Kipling or Mase-
field. There is only one lack*of diversity
in this copy. One finds the meat of fiction
and the drink of poetry but when one
wishes to round off a full meal with an
essay — well, the culbard is bare. The
short story and verse have joined hands
and have driven off (for the nonce) this
other member of the trilogy of literary
composition.

This edition of our magazine seems to
.concern itselfswith some of the eternal
problems of youth and age. Love and
terror constitute the major interests of
oar authors and remain there to beguile

Tor to fighten-the-gentle reader.

“If 1 Were King” achieves distinction in
the latter portion of the story with an able
study of the beauty of nature without the

(Continued on page 6)

Fourteen Members
Initiated By I.R.C.

Members Come from Rising Junior
and Senior Classes

The International Relations Club of
Davidson held their annual Spring initia-
tion last Monday night, May 12th. At that
time the following students became mem-
bers: Chas. Harrison, Ed Kuykendall,
Jack Pepper, J. W. Williams, C. C. Kraem-
er, Ned Dwelle, Bill Lea, W. C. Ragin,
J. A. Jones, Al Jackson, Kenneth Jack-
son, G. R. Fain, D.’S. LaFar, R. P. Enloe,
and Grier Martin.

These men are all of the rising Junior
and Senior Classes, since only men of the
two upper classes may be elected. The
new members of the two upper classes
may be elected. The new members were
elected on basis of written paprs on in-
ternational questions. Twenty-two men
were asked to write papers. Of these, fif-
teen were judged worthy of membership.

The International Relations Club as a
national organization was formed in 1923.
It is backed by the Carnegie Peace Foun-
dation. Their aim is to acquaint them-
selves with international affairs and re-
lations.

, The Davidson Club was responsible for
the recent visit of Sir Herbert Brown
Ames of Canada to the campus.

Those men who have made
pledges in the annual campaign of
the Y. M. C. A. and have not yet
paid them are requested to look
into the matter at once. Work has
been started, and the remainder of
the pledges should be paid. Checks
can be made payable to A. B. Mc-
Clure.

Dedication of Chambers To
Be Commencement Feature

Fraternity.Council
Chooses New Heads

At.a meeting of the Pan Hellenic Coun-
cil on Wednesday, May 12th, George Wil-
liams was elected President for next year,
and J. A. Cannon, Secretary and Treas-
urer, This Council is composed of repre-
sentatives from each fraternity on the
campus, Whose purpose is to regulate and
control matters which may come up be-
tween the fraternities. Williams is a mem-
ber of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fra-
ternity, and Cannon of Beta Theta Pi.
They were elected to succeed C. E. Orr,
president for this year, and W. B. Mc-
Gavock, Secretary.

Members for next year in the Council
will be: G. W. Williams, Sigma Alpha
Epsilon; J. A. Cannon, Beta Theta Pi;
C. H. Goodykoontz, Phi Delta Theta; A.
R. Bird, Phi Gamma Delta; R. M. King,
Kappa Alpha, C. T. Parker, Theta Up-
silon Omega; A. H. Whitehead, Pi Kappa
Phi; G: W. George, Pi Kappa Alpha;
Frank Pilcher, Sigma Phi Epsilon; and
J. K. Pepper, Kappa Sigma.

The retiring members are: C. E.
Kappa Sigma, W. B. McGavock, Kappa
Alpha; O. D, Anderson, Theta Upsilon
Omega; R. G. Wilson, Pi Kappa Alpha;
R. M. Christian, Phi Gamma Delta; C. H.
Goodykoontz, Phi Delta Theta; J. A. Can-
non, Beta Theta Pi; H. E. Russell, Sigma
Alpha Epsilon; E. B. Kugler, Pi Kappa
Phi.

Orr,

j

Members of Year Book
Staff Chosen Recently

Men Rewarded for Constant Work
During Previous Years

According to an announcement made by
A. R, Bird, Jr., newly elected Editor of
the Quips and Cranks for the Class of
1931, the following men are elected to
serve members of the staffs of that
publication. have achieved
these positions as a result of untiring
labor which began during their fresh-
man year and has continued unceasingly
ever since, They are as follows: Literary
Staff; A. R. Bird, Editor-in-Chief; P. R.
Alderman, Athletic Editor; J. V. D. Mid-
dleton, Fraternity Editor; Norman Raies,
Activities Editor; S. S. Wiley Literary
Editor; W. .R. Rule, IHL! Photographic
Editor; Assistant Editors: E. C. Dwelle,
Jr.; R. P. Enloe; W. T. Hancock; W. B.
Hawkins; W. S. Lea; D. G. Stevenson.

Business Staff: Business Manager, R.
M. King; Advertising Managers, D. G.
Martin, S. J. McCallie, N. B. Dicks, C. M.
Miller; Solicitors, H. E. Hall, J. G. Dung-
lin, W. W. Franklin; Circulation Mana-
ger, M. W. Norfleet; Assistant Circula-
tion Managers, N. G. Speir, R. K. Morton,
J. H. Boyd,

Student Council Elects —
New Court of Control

as

These men

Last Thursday morning the Senior
members of the Student Council elected
the Court of Control for the coming year.
Trad Brock was made judge, to fill the
place of the retiring Heath Whittle. It is
the privilege of the Junior and Sophomore
classes to have two members each, while
the Senior class has four members, in-
cluding the judge. The Senior class has
four members, including the judge. The
Senior representatives are: George Mc-
Clenagan, A. R. Jackson, and Norman
Raies. The Junior members are: D. G.
Martin, G. L. Mathis. The Sophomore
representatives ar: J. B. Clark, and J. D.
Enochs,

It is the duty of this court to make out
the regulations and restrictions for the
incoming Freshman class. Throughout

(Continued on page 5)

List of Speakers for Occasion is
Nearly Completed According to
Dean J. M. McConnell

LINGLE TO BE INSTALLED

Diplomas Will Be Presented
Wednesday, June 4

Five hundred invitations are being
mailed out from Davidson College, this
week, inviting college presidents, sem-

inary presidents, officials of many insti-
tutions and other special guests to the in-
auguration of Dr. Walter L. Lingle as the
eleventh president of Davidson College,
and to the dedication of Chambers Build-
ing of the General Alumni Association.
mencement of Davidson June 1-4.

Both of these important and historical
events, which are considered the high-
lights of the commencement week, are to
occur on Tuesday, June 3rd, the inau-
guration of Davidson's new president tak-
ing place in the morning at 11 o'clock. and
the dedication of Chambers in the after-
noon at 3 o'clock. Interspersing this will
be the annual alumni luncheon and meet-
ing of the General Alumni Asociation.

On this same day, the board of trustees
will meet in) semi-annual
ception will be tendered by the faculty
on the lawn of the college at five o'clock,
the class reunion dinners are scheduled for
the early evening, and a dramati¢ pre-
sentation as the closing erent of the in-
tensive day's program. i

session, a re-

- Dean J. M. McConnell, who has been
in charge of the arrangements for these
two exercises, stated today that practically
all the speakers had been. obtained for
the occasions, but withheld the informa-
tion until the entire program had been
completed. He felt that this would be
ready for announcement later in the week.

According to the program, Davidson's
commencement will begin Sunday morn-
ing at 11:15 o'clock, when Rev. Stuart
Nye Hutchison, D.D., of Pittsburgh, Pa.,
will deliver the baccalaureate sermon. In
the evening, the annual sermon before the
Y. M. C. A,, in its last, meeting of the
session, will be delivered.

All during Monday, Alumni and visitors
to the college will be arriving and will be
assigned rooms in the ‘alumni dormitory.”
The first event of the second day of com-
mencement will be a Y. M. C. A. recep-
tion at 4 o'clock in the afternoon, imme-
diately followed by the class day exer-
cises, when students who have been se-
lected by their classmates as salutatorian,
valedictorian, and orator, will make ad-
dresses. The literary program
Monday evening closes the day.

Davidson's commencement concludes
Wednesday, June 4th, when the academic

(Continued on page 6)

society

Foreman To Leave
For European Tour

Dr. K. J. Foreman, professor of Bible
Philosophy, will sail from New York May
24th on the S. S. Leviathan for an ex-
tensive tour of Europe and other foreign
countries. He will remain abroad practi-
cally the entire summer, returning home
about the last of August.

Professor Foreman has planned a very
complete itinerary which will carry him
to inany points of interest. He will be in
Europe during June and August, while
he will spend the intervening month in
Palestine and adjoining countries, In the
first part of his journey he will attend the
Passion Play in Oberammergau, Other
countries which he will visit are France,
Belgium, Switzerland, Italy, and England.
He will spend most of July in Palestine,
also visiting Egypt, Greece, and other
points along the Mediterranean Sea. On
his way back in August he plans ‘to be
present at the International Christian En-
deavor Convention at Berlin. He will also
attend the music festivals at Salzburg,
Austria, and at Beyreuth, Germany.

