FIRST ELECTION
TOMORROW

AT CHAPEL

THE DAVIDSONIAN

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

JUNIOR PARTY

FEATURES
STUDENT ACTIVITY

Vol. XVII ‘

‘DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 13, 1930

hi No. 21

Phi Beta Kappa

Extends

Bids To Prominent Men

Five Seniors, Brown, Johnston, Mc-
Gavock, McGuire, and Miller Are
Honored by Gamma Chapter

GROUP TOTALS NINE

List Includes Students in Literary,
Athletic, and Other Departments

Following its semi-annual custom, Gamma
Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, situated at
Davidson, recently issued bids to five mem-
bers of the Senior class. It will be recalled
that four men received this honor last fall.

Those who received bids are fae,
Brown, F. W. Johnston, W. G. McGavock,
W. B.- McGuire, and F. D. Miller. It is
interesting to note that four of these men
are taking courses Jeading to a Bachelor of
Arts Degree, McGavock being the only stu-
dent in the scientific school.

Jick Brown, whose home is in Hender-
sonville, N, C., is an applicant for the “A.B.
II” diploma. He is on the Davidsonian staff,
Captain Adjutant in the R. O. T. C. Battal-
ion, and is active in literary work“6én the
campus. Brown belongs to Delta Pi Kappa,
honorary journalistic fraternity.

F. W. Johnston, who is also taking an
“A.B. II” course, is from Jefferson, Ga. As
captain of this year’s basketball team, cap-
tain of the varsity tennis team, Captain of
Company A, and a member of Omicron Delta
Kappa, he has played a prominent part in
activities. He is a member of Beta Theta Pi,
social fraternity.

William G. McGayock, Franklin, Tenn.,
belongs to Kappa Alpha, social fraternity.
He is on the Student Council, was Assistant
Editor of “Quips and Cranks,” and is a
member of Sigma Pi Sigma. McGavock has
charge of the “Social Life” department of
the Y. M. C, A. cabinet.

President of the Senior class, W. B. Mc-
Guire comes to Davidson from Franklin,
N. C. He was Contributing Editor to “Quips
and Cranks,” and Assistant Editor of the
Wildcat Handbook. He is a member of
Omicron Delta Kappa, a varsity debater,
Captain of Company C, and belongs to Pi
Kappa Alpha.

F. D. Miller’s home is in Surgoinsville,
Tenn., managing and Associate Editor of
the Davidsonian, Editor of “The Wildcat
Handbook,” and poetry editor of ‘The
Chameleon,” he is a wearer of the “Golden
Quill.” Miller belongs to Delta Pi Kappa
and Alpha Phi Epsilon, honorary journalistic
and forensic fraternities respectively.

Dr. Kirk To Deliver

Series of Lectures

Dr. H. E. Kirk, pastor of Franklin Street
Presbyterian Church of Baltimore and for-
mer moderator of the General Assembly of
the Southern Presbyterian Church, has ‘ac-
cepted an invitation extended him by David-
son College to deliver a series of lectures
here next fall, according to Dr. Walter L.
Lingle, president of Davidson. Doctor Kirk
was selected for this task by the Davdison
faculty and at a recent meeting of the board
of trustees his name was approved.

In 1894 Rev. J. M. P. Otts, D.D., LL.D.,
gave Davidson $2500.00 for the founding of
a lectureship “in defense of the truth of the
Bible and Christianity against some form of
unbelief, or misbelief that may be prevalent
at the time of the delivery of any course of
fecture; especially in defense and mainten-
ance of the doctrines of the eternal personal-
ity of God; of the immortal personality of
man; of the Divine inspiration of the Bible
as the Word of God, and of the divinity.and
atonement of the Lord Jesus Christ, as the
Savior of Adam's fallen race.”

Four series of the Otts’ lectures have been
delivered at Davidson since the establish-
ment of this fund. When they were last
given some years ago, the trustees decided
to let the interest accumulate until it reached
$10,000. With this sum having been reached,
the decision was made to continue these lec-
tures every two years, or whenever the in-
terest of the fund permitted.

The first series was delivered by the

(Continued on Page 5)

Sophomores Are Hosts
During Week-End Party

Students and Girl Friends Attend
the Week-End Festival

On Saturday, March 8, the annual Sopho-
more party was held with great success. The
party this year differed from those of former
years in that the members of the class in-
vited girls to: the entertainment. About 175
persons attended the entertainment, includ-
ing the members of the class and their guests.
The entire afternoon and evening were
occupied by the program arranged by the
class.

The activities began at 2:30 with the foot-
ball game held on Richardson Field between
the two sections of the spring football squad
The game proved to be very exciting and
“Duke” nosed out “Carolina” with a score
of 7-0.

Following this
Davidson

the party went to the
Theater where each received a
bag of peanuts as a favor. After giving the
members of the party time to throw the
peanuts, the picture started. The. picture,
“General Crack,” turned out to be one of
the best shown in Davidson in the past year.

That evening at 7:30 the main part of
the program began. The entire company as-
sembled in the Quadrangle room in Cham-
bers and a short but humorous talk was made
to them over a fake radio by ‘Major Hoople”
Clark. Then everyone went tothe banquet
hall of Chambers building where the feast
awaited them.

“Major Hoople” acted as Master of Cere-
monies at the banquet, and a few moments
after the crowded was seated Don King wel-
comed the guests in behalf of the Sophomore
Class, During the dinner, Prof. H. T. Lilly
made a humorous talk on a new English
book which he was preparing for Sopho-
mores. The Davidson orchestra played num-
erous selections throughout the meal. The
guests of honor at the banquet were: Dr.
and Mrs. G. B. Watts, Dr. and Mrs. J. M.
McConnell, Mr. J. T. Kimbrough, Mr. James
Truesdale, Mr. H. T. Lilly, Mr. Camper
O’Neal, and Mr. Dan MacConnell.

After the banquet the party, lead by Bob
Gorrell and Miss Dulin, went to the room
under the dome of Chambers building where
a series of stunts were put on for the enter-
tainment of the guests. First a number of

(Continued on Page 5)

Record Established
By D.C. Rifle Team

Continuing the excellent shooting of the
past few weeks, the Davidson Rifle Team
set two new records in the last weeks’ firing.
Led by R. D. Russell who established a new
school record for individual firing with a
score of 386 out of a possible 400, the team
scored 3722 points, out of 4000, bettering
their former record by over 50 points. The
former individual record for the school was
held by S. S. Wiley who shot 382 last season.

The Rifle team will leave Thursday for a
trip to Virginia where they will meet the
teams from V. M. I. and V. P. I. in shoulder-
to-shoulder matches. V: P. I. has been met
once this season, and Davidson team was
victorious by the close margin of three points.

Of the 39 matches fired by the team this
season, 28 have been won. The Freshmen
fired a five man correspondence match with
the University of West Virginia Freshmen
and came out ahead by the score of 1785
to 1732.

Besides the shoulder-to-shoulder matches
fired this week correspondence matches were
fired with the Universities of California,
Missouri, West Virginia, Tennessee, Nevada,
and Wichita, Texas A. & M. College, Mon-
tana State College, Western Maryland Col-
lege, Carnegie Institute of Technology, and
Leland Stanford University.

The correspondence matches will close
with those fired next week. Other shoulder-
to-shoulder matches are pending and it is
possible that another match will be fired here
this season.

’ Program For Junior

Speaking

The program which has been an-
nounced for the annual Junior
Week-end, shows a number of va-
ried entertainments. Starting Fri-
day night and lasting through Sat-
urday night, the entire period is
filled with interesting events. Fol-
lowing is the program: a

Friday, March 14
10 to 2—Festivities at Hotel Char-

lotte,
Saturday, March 15
2:30—Football game, Richardson
Field.

6 to 8—Cabaret Supper.

(South Carolina Co-ed Follies)
8:15—Minstrel.
10 to 12—Festivities at Mooresville.

Student Body Elections
Will Be Held Tomorrow

After Chapel Exercises

Will Begin With Election of Student
Body President and Continue
Indefinitely Until Completed

’ CANDIDATES NOMINATED

Officers Include “Y,” Davidsonian,
Athletic Association,; Annual,
and Chameleon

The annual elections of the Student Body
will begin tomorrow, when the first ballot
for President of the Student—Body—will_he
cast. The men who will have the honor of
being selected for candidates to head the
Davidson Student Body are as yet unknown.
They are chosen for this position by a Nomi-
nating Committee, which is composed of
members of the Student Council. Immedi-
ately succeeding this election, the other im-
portant officers of the Student Body will be
elected. The elections will continue each
day, beginning with March 14 and running
indefinitely. No elections will\be,held on
Monday, March 17, because many students
Kwill be absent then.

It is probable that the officers of the “Y,”
Athletic Association, Davidsonian, Quips
and Cranks, and The Chameleon will
elected in the sequence named, These elec-
tions are held early. because there must be
time at the end of the school year to accus-
tom the new officers to their responsible posi-
tions. All elections not over by the begin-
ning of the Spring Holidays will be com-
pleted soon after the resuming of College.

Dr. I. Landrith Reviews
Ideals of C. E. Society

Interesting and Humorous Talk
Delivered at Saturday Chapel
Service

be

Davidson students had the privilege of
hearing a most effective and instructive talk
delivered by Dr. Ira Landrith, Citizenship
Superintendent of the International Society
of Christian Endeavor, during the chapel
period Saturday morning, March 8. Most
of the students well remembered his very

(Continued on Page 5)

Canadian To Speak
Here

Sir Herbert Brown Ames, a Can-
adian, who acted as Treasurer of
the League of Nations from 1919 to
1926, will speak at Davidson Col-
lege on April 8, on the subject of
“The Changing Times of Europe,
1919-1929.” He will be sent by the
Carnegie Endowment for World
Peace in behalf of the local Inter-
national Relations Club. Plans for
the entertainment of the distinguish-
ed visitor and speaker are now un-
der consideration.

bs

Junior Class Sponsors
Traditional Festival

Dr. W.H. Frazer Speaks

At “Y” Vesper Services

Queens College President Speaks of
“The Spirit of Excellency”

Dr. W. H. Frazer, President of Queens
College, brought a message, very inspiring
to young men on “The Spirit of Excellency”
at the Vesper Service last Sunday evening.
The attendance was good, fairly well filling
Shearer Hall. Albert McClure read the
scripture, Wayte Fulton led in prayer, and
Prof. A. Currie introduced the speaker as
an accomplished man along many lines but
especially a friend of young men.

“Then this Daniel was preferred above the
presidents and princes because an excellent
spirit was in him; and the king thought to
set him over the whole realm,” was Doctor
Frazer's text. “This spirit of excellency,” he
said, “is what executives look for today in
the men they select to fill the most import-
ant positions. But what are the constituents
of this spirit of excellence ?

“The first great requirement of this spirit
is self-control. He that conquereth his own
soul is greater than he that taketh a city.
Daniel kept his body under and this proved
one of the most important stepping stones in
his ascent to power. The second necessary
element for the acquisition of this goal is a
spirit of common sense. He who measures
his deeds by this unrelenting rule can feel
within him the surging of an excellent spirit.

“A spirit of genuine piety is the third
factor we find in Daniel's spirit of excellency.
Like the great trees he sent his roots down
deep in his faith in Jehovah and when those
around him fell in the turmoil because like
corn they only penetrated a few inches below
the surface. In the heat and hurry of today
this is a prime requisite for one who would
imitate Daniel, that he have firm and whole-
hearted faith in God. The next characteristic
we discover in Daniel in his concentration
on the big things of life and putting the
things of minor importance in their place.
Many men today fail to make an outstanding
success of their lives because of the amount
of time and energy they waste on the little
things that don’t count one way or the other.

“The last, and probably the cause which
had most to do with this spirit of excellence
(Continued on Page 5)

Plans Finished For

Forensic Itinerary

Following close upon the choosing of var-
sity debaters, announcement of the forensic
schedule has been announced. Although there
may not be as many engagements as past
years have seen, several institutions from
various sections of the country have been
slated. The first of these contests will take
place on the campus, March 20, with the
University of Richmond. William Rule and
E. D. Kuykendall willtake the rostrum for
Davidson.

R. M. Christian, President of the Forensic
Council, and C. R. Pritchett, will make the
southern trip, leaving March 18 and return-
ing March 24. The University of Florida
will be the first school invaded, while the
local debaters will see action with Birming-
ham Southern and the University of Ala-
bama.

Only one more foreign debate has been
scheduled, and this will be with the Univer-
sity, of South Carolina at Columbia. P. S.
Knox and J. A. Jones will represent David-
son. They will also meet William and Mary,
here. Z. V. Long and E, E. Marsh will op-
pose the team from Wake Forest here, the
tentative date being in April.

Acting as alternates, and announced last
week, are A. R. Bird, Jr., R. P. Enloe, G. P.
Pardington, and R. D. Powell. It is inter-
esting to note that%there are three sopho-
mores on the varsity squad, while there are
also three on the list of alternates. All the
other members of the squad have seen serv-
ice on the rostrum or as alternates save J.
A. Jones, who is a member of the Junior
class.

Full Program to Provide Great Deal
of High-Class Entertainment
for Guests

MINSTREL TO BE GIVEN

South Carolina Co-Ed Follies Head-
liner of Big Cabaret Dinner

Extensive for the annual
Junior Speaking program having been made,
and a full week-end period planned out
which contains much entertainment for the
Davidson student “body and their visitors,
everything is in readiness for the traditional
celebration which has been a popular event
in the college for many decades. Under the
leadership of C. H. “Dan” Goodykoontz, of
Bluetield, W. Va., president of the Junior
class, committees have functioned
regularly for the past few weeks, in prepara-
tion for this yearly affair.

preparations

several

Leading the list of features for the day's
program, is a football game to be held Sat-
urday afternoon at 2:30 o'clock, between
two teams selected from the numerous foot-
ball candidates. This encounter is expected
to end the spring training campaign of the
Wildeat gridmen, and should be as full of
thrills as an inter-collegiate game held in the
fall.

Following this, from 6 to 8 o'clock, a cab-
aret dinner will be to guests and
members of the student body, in the alumni
gynasium, during which time the diners will
be entertained by the University of South
Carolina Co-ed Follies which carries a per

served

sonnel of thirteen attractive girls, who have
appeared many times before other North
Carolina audiences during the past few years. -

After the cabaret program is enjoyed, the
group will next go to the Chambers audi-
torium where the Junior Minstrel will be
given. Instead of procuring an experienced
director to prepare this show as has been
the custom in the past, the plans and the
numerous numbers to included ‘in the
Minstrel, will be worked up by members of
the Junior class. Although the actual fea-
tures have been kept secret, indications point
to the fact that it will consist of meritorious
acts. It has been revealed that “Hub” Cov-
ington and Joe McCall, who have appeared
together before in black-face comedy skits,
will be two of the end-men, and it also, has
been divulged that ‘Gus’ Enochs, George
Pardington and Calighan have been secured
from other classes to add special attractions,
which call for a variety of local talent. The

(Continued from Page 5)

Dr. Lingle Talks On
Tithing Over Radio

On Sunday night, March 9, Dr. W. L.
Lingle delivered an address in the interests
of tithing at the First Baptist Church
of Charlotte. The talk was broadcasted
through the Charlotte station, thus enabling
thousands to enjoy and appreciate it. Many
students at Davidson gathered. around the
several radios oo the campus and listened
in. ‘

be

Doctgr Lingle’s text was the first and
second verses of the 24th Psalm. He first
pointed out the fact that there are 75,000
Presbyterians in the Carolinas, and much
can be expected from such a number.

“The Bible has much to say about money,”
said Doctor Lingle. “Jesus Christ had more
to say about money than any other sub-
ject. All the parables deal in some way with
money. Jesus never condemns a rich man,
but he does say that they hold money at
their own peril. The evil,” he averred, “does
not lie in having money, but dispensing with
it in the wrong way. God notes constantly
how we spend.”

Doctor Lingle went on to show by Bible
passages the all-owriership of God. “There
are many ways,” said he, “of giving money
to the Lord. The channels of business, for
instance, are representative of God’s work,
if methods are used of which the Lord can
approve.”

The second part of the address gave meth-
ods for handling home and personal ex-

(Continued on page 4)

