~:

THE DAVIDSONIAN,

APRIL 10, 1930

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
BS ag Year, Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina,

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

cr ited
Wee Vi LONG) Jt cia ea Editor-in-Chief
iiss Wee OCA LYle Scio se cea cauceusces delle Business Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
$3723) BUA OR eescusibbsieccudisecscasae souk Managing Editor
J. W. McCUTCHAN.. oe .-Managing Editor
Ww. Cc. GIN cbseas --Managing Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN.. --.-..-Athletic Editor
J. V. D. MIDDLETON .-Assignment Editor
Ji AK SERBS LO Nastovnsccsceseucdassucoacuceee Feature Editor
J. L. BROWN ..-- Feature Editor
R, F. JARRATT. Associate Editor
BS 4 MILLER... -Associate Editor

Seta se sesscenwnsodssbccaaccesee. Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

Js “AV GANNON fics duces acl eos Aga ROR Mgr.
L. L. BOYD... -Subscription Mgr.
Anh te BAW RE weceiscus ceseiCaT La Ge eae Solicitor
P.. OM. CONWAY oo nooo. cit .-Solicitor
}: H. McKINNON. -Solicitor
- O. MANN.. --Solicitor
J. RU MMecsterataclanesecccsaeri ees ocvescrs -Solicitor
Je, TL. (SEVIERS 22.32: aoe .«--Solicitor
REPORTERS’ CLUB
Be Si MHEBRNDR 2500022 ee ees President
We RAGIN eee Vice-President
J. ee D. MIDDLETON (oo 222 cocicllss Secretary-Treasurer
J. G. BERRY J. G. DUNKLIN
J. C. MATTHEWS W. S. LEA
D. G. MARTIN C. W. F. SPENCER
J. R. SMITH W. T. HANCOCK
D. O. STEPHENSON JOHN M. .BROWN
Ly ef meee G. P. PARDINGTON
Wite eT M ATTHEWS, WwW. H.
WAU Ha DWELLE, FE. C.
APRIL 10, 1930
THE VOICE OF THE CAMPUS

Capt. Norton Pritchett is running out new and

Promising candidates for cinder path honors

right along, and the Wildcat seems to be heading
toward something he hasn’t boasted in long years,
said acquisition being a really well-balanced track
squad. Davidson looks good to finish high in South
Atlantic circles this spring.

The spring Y. M. C. A. services under the in-
spiring leadership of Dr. “Bill” Anderson
should do a large part toward filling a busy
year with worthwhile things. When it comes to
getting men who can bring a human message
to students, Davidson authorities bow to none.
It’s a gift to have two such Christian workers
as Frank Price and “Bill” Anderson on the
“hill” within a few days of each other.

The great wheel of election is still slowly turn-
ing, and there are a good many positions of lead-
ership yet to be awarded to the men who have
been worthy, It's a long process, during which af-
fairs seem to be in more or less of an upheaval.
Then for-the last month of the year will come the
readjustment and the orientation of those who will
bear the brunt of activitiy for next year,

All Davidson men will now be turning their
attention to a little sport series which soon
begins, namely, a three game baseball scrap
with U. N. C. If the ’Cats can pull the majority
number out of the fire, their sticks will be
recognized as among ‘the best in collegiate
ranks. And, as you know, baseball isn’t like
football. One team usually ends what it starts.

It is interesting to observe reactions here and
there to the ever vital question of prohibition and
the eighteenth amendment. People are watching
the Literary Digest’s poll with concern, hoping to
see signs there favorable to their own convictions
or desires. And those who laugh that: poll off,
claiming its inability to reach the masses of the
voters, find it hard to get around the fact that
previous polls conducted by that worthy magazine
have come remarkably close to the truth. Can
there safely be a retraction of the dry laws? We
think not. And we'll hope the Digest Poll slips up
this time.

TO THOSE WHO SERVED

Within the next few days the student
body will elect a new editor for The David-
sonian, a new staff of editors will go to
work and the publication of North Meck-
lenburg’s largest newspaper goes into other
hands. Whatever the choice from the avail-
able group of candidates, we feel sure that
it will be a good one, for the efforts exerted
during the year gone by have not been un-
productive of capable journalists. They have
given a real conception of the needs. «iffi-
culties, and solutions of collegiate news-
paper activities to the men who have been
connected with the paper.

It is to these men who have served on the.

staffs, editorial and business, under the out-
going regime that we wish to extend sin-
cere appreciation on behalf of the entire stu-
dent body, for whose interests The David-
sonian exists. Their work has been, for ‘the
most part, efficient and earnest, and it has
made possible the vitality of one of the most
important departments in college circles. We

believe the members of the student body do

realize and appreciate the activities of such
men, and, in this belief, we voice our thanks
| to the retiring staffs.

WINGS TAKE THEIR TOLL

Death is riding high these days as man’s
struggle to completely conquer the air takes
on greater proportions. Every front page
tells the story of some fatal plunge from the
heights, and the Sunday morning sheets be-
come perfect casualty lists when, the re-
sults of flying for the holiday, as many re-
gard it, are made’ known. The toll price is
increasng with every week. Automobiles
and trains still claim their share of victims,
but the mechanical monarch of the air is
fast out-distancing them in the traffic with
lives. .

A century from now another story can be
told. Perhaps something else will be toying
with human life, even as the wings of the
present are doing, but it is doubtful if the
comparative sacrifice of life, ever has been
or ever will be as great as it is now.

Progress must continue. It has challenged
man to chart the air for the use of future
generations and surely he has been success-
ful. At a fearful cost is he meeting the re-
sponsibility, but gladly, for his genius is put
to the test, and he knows that in times to
come the suffering of the hour will be for-
gotten, the accomplishments remembered.
Because men of strong hearts felt this spirit
long ago we enjoy our modern privileges,
and, mindful of that eternal sequence, who
can say a discouraging word to the races
today as they seek new perfections.

Steps should be taken, however, to curtail
and safeguard flying on the part of civilians
who are incapable and irresponsible, for the
great majority of accidents in the air arise
fro msuch sources. So-called “thrill flying”
holds dangerous possibilities, and the ama-
teur who indulges prematurely will soon
constitute as big a menace to the public as
the drunken driver. The next ten years or so
will undoubtedly see restrictions made
which will promote better flying, and, to be
sure, improvement will be steady all along.
We hope the experimental days are drawing
to a close, and that, with the advent of a
practical flying’era, the appalling loss of life
will cease. :

ENLIGHTENMENT ON THE.LEAGUE
The visit of Sir Herbert Ames to the col-
lege afforded folks of this vicinity a rare
opportunity to set their minds right with
relation to internation affairs, especially,
of course, in the matter of The League of
Nations. Consistently large audiences which
heard him testified to the fascination of his
subject and to the skill with which he pre-
sented it, and the interest shown was indeed
well repaid as Sir Herbert authoritatively
dealt with the Europe come at last out of
bitter conflict into a human understanding
which promises to be one of the greatest

forces for right the world has ever seen.

As he tours the country in behalf of peace,
the ex-treasurer of the League will speak
from personal experience and contacts to
eager thousands, making a hitherto nebu-
lous conception of the Geneva organization
come into the spotlight of reality, clearing
up many doubts, and inspiring public opin-
on in favor of the League. The actual facts
wlll be given to great numbers of the
younger generation who were not impressed
with them a decade ago. All hearers will be
better educated in terms of international
association, will be more efficient in crti-
cism of foreign policies, will be more useful

|
| in the cause of world peace.
|

| Credit is due the International Relations
| Club and any other participants in the serv-
ice of bringing Sir Herbert Ames to David-
son. A more informing and attractive lec-
ture has not been here in recent years.

Prohibition note: It is always risky to give a
man who can not control his own man-power fifty
or seventy-five’ horse-power to control—Boston
Herald.

Jimmy was in the habit of coming to the table

with a dirty face, and, of course, had to be sent
| away.
| . At length his mother lost patience.
|; “Jimmy,” she said seyerely, “why do you per-
sist in coming to the table without washing? You
know I always send you away.”

“Well,” said Jimmy, meekly, “you forgot once.”

But of course, Oscar, one naturally would ex-
pect a young lady geologist to marry some old
fossil—Ex,

First Scout: “I saw a groundhog this morning.”
Second Scout: “Where?”
First Scout: ‘“Sausage,”—Ex.

I

|

COF

IV. M&CUTCHAN

It is difficult for of Arthur Brisbane's
readers to understand why this famous editorial
writer heartily endorses Secretary Wilbur’s plan
of oil reservations. It is the present endeavor of
the Cabinet to completely close some of the most
productive oil fields of the country. Brisbane de-

clares that the great companies are heartily in

many

favor of the scheme, Why shouldn't they be? Gas

will cost more per gallon; but what about the
farmer who has to get his product to market?
Thege is only one reason that. diamonds are as
costly as they are; the Diamond Trust has millions
of stones stored in its vaults, but only a stipulated
number can be placed on the market every year.
Would it not be wiser to find and develop new oil
production than to place the fatal knife in the
heart of the average citizen who is already strug-
gling for his property?

Moreover, it is equally hard to see the view-
point taken by many well-meaning pacifists. It
is surprising how often an adequate ‘lefense,
preserved as a safety measure, is mistaken as
being an indication of war. There is no com-
parison between the active military policy of
Bismark and the National Defense Act of 1920.
There has been no indication in the past that
will tolerate the theory of an eternally peace-
ful Utopia. No business man would risk his
firm’s millions of dollars on a purely theoreti-
cal investment. Therefore, is it wise to gamble
the lives and honor of millions of dependent
women and children, the liberty (economical
and physical) of posterity, and the property
of the state on a problematical supposition?
There has never been a war which was not
accompanied by rapine and ravage; nor will
there ever be one in the future. Even in this
industrial whirlwind of the present day lives
are still held at more value than dollars!

7
This

favor

column does wish, however, to stand in
of world-wide peace. In all minds
there can be but one practical solution suggested,
namely, education of all peoples the extent
that war will be recognized as a too expensive
means of solving problems of international rela-
tionship. If this point can be gained, well and
good! This column does insistj;though, that edu-
cation precedes any drastic move for complete
naval o rmilitary disarmament. If the cart goes
before the horse someone is obliged to get left,
even if it is the horse.

peace,

to

Recent action against John J. Rascob only
goes further to prove that real issues are ob-
scured. This column does not intend to indorse
the present Chairman of the National Demo-
cratic Committee, for it is felt that there are
many men who are better suited to fill the
position. But, it was recently the writer's lot
to sit in the gallery at a session of the United
States Senate. The majority of the time was
taken up by the boisterous gentleman from
South Carolina, a Democrat, maligning a pro-
posal submitted by Senator Hugo Black, of
Alabama, also a Democrat. Nothing was ac-
complished! Thus it appears that the members

. of this good old southern party are ‘more con-
cerned with internal disruptions than they are
with the platform for wihch the entire party
stands. As a staunch Democrat, this writer
would like to suggest that the party répre-
sentatives forget personal aggravations within
the party and apply themselves to the prob-
lems which are of national importance to both
political organizations.

Sir Herbert Brown Ames proved to be a popu-
lar visitor on the campus. It is seldom that David-
son has the opportunity of listening to a man who
is not hampered by lack of knowledge on certain
points which he chooses to discuss, and who is not
worked up to a fanatical zeal over his subject.
Every man who listened to him during his stay
here will be ready to admit that Sir Herbert
looked on world affairs from a calm and deliber-
ative standpoint. He was able to relate his personal
observations freely and flavored them with a cer-
tain degree of mild humor. The student body is
glad that the former member of the Canadian
parliament could visit the college. He is to be
especially complimented for not wearing a
monocle.

Make: “Well Pat, what did you do toward
gaining the victory?”

Pat: “I walked up boldly and cut off his feet.”
Mike: “Why don’t you cut off his head?”
Pat: “That was already. off.”

Pat: “How is your husband?”

Mrs. O'Regan: “He’s underground now.”

Pat: “Shure I didn’t know it, poor man.”

Mrs. O'Regan: “He's got a good job in the sub-
way.

yS

4

Se

This is just a line or so to let everyone know
definitely that the Spring Holidays really are over,
and that life has begun again in earnest. You
all know that life really is Earnest, so just be
Frank, and everything will be Jake. After several
days of being halt and lame, I have become terrifi-
cally morbid, so prepare yourselves for a heart-
wringing story with pathos oozing from every
pore. This, my public, is the account of the life of:

WALL-EYED WILLIE, THE WILLAINOUS

WOOD-CUTTER

Willie was tough, There's no getting around that
fact. As a mewling babe, he was often hung on a
clothes-line all night in the midst of a mid-winter
snow storm, so that he’d grow up to be a big
strong man like his Papa. And so we find him as a
young man working in the lumber camps. He
would go to work singing his favorite song:

“And we'll maple leaf that you love me,
And I'll maple leaf that I love you,

Etc.”

All well with Willie until beautiful
day in Spring when love entered that tough mass
of muscle that pumped Willie’s blood (commonly
called the heart in all of the leading medical en-
cyclopedias), A little soft music, Millie. Try that
new piece “Clove, thy magic smell is everywhere.”
Now, where was I? O yeah, Willie had just faw
down and gone booey( or as they say in Paris
“Eifel Tower and go boom.”) It all happened in
this manner: Cora, the boss’s daughter, had come
down to the lumber camp to bring Papa his
dinner-pail and to take back the parrot-cage that
he had grabbed up in his haste. Willie saw her,
he knew that it must be love at first sight—he
hadn't even had time to aim. So he walked up to
her and they held their first conversation in the
curious dialect of the woodsman, Sez she, “What-
cha doin’ over here?” Sez he, “I thought I cedar
fair lady in distrust so I came, on over.” Sez she,
“T could béech ye over the dome for that crack.”
Sez he, “Of course, you're the most poplar gal
around here, but I pine fir you.” Sez she, “Any-
thihg you say is Oak-A with me, beeg boy.”

went one

Well, it was pitiful what love did to Willie. It
changed him from a big, husky brute to a, pa-
thetic, mooning, calf-eyed person. His appetite fell
off, and he lost interest in his work. One morning,
as he was working at the top of a big pine tree, he
saw Cora pass by. Willie immediately waved fran-
tically. Well, sir, about that time he heard some-
thing fall, He looked all around, and I'll be dog-
goned if it wasn’t himself. A big crowd gathered

around him and everything got real quiet. There =

wasn't a bit of fuss, not even the fuzz that peaches
make.

He his left arm as the result of this ac-
cident, so his right arm was left. Of course, his
right arm was right, but as his left arm was not
all right, it was not left, but his right arm was all
right and was left. If his left arm had been all
right, it would have been left, and if his right
arm had not beén all right, it would not have been
left—however, things being in the condition that
they were, the result. was that his right arm was
left.

While Willie was in the hospital losing weight,
Cora began to go with a city slicker who sold gold
bricks. He lent her his sample to have a front
tooth made, and as she had buck teeth, he had to
marry her. Well, as you can doubtless imagine,
Willie was a complete wreck when he learned the
sad news. He lost his voice, so he began to hang
around nasty old speak-easies. One day, he went
up to one of these DENS OF VICE and knocked
on the door. The head man stuck his head out and
politiely inquired, “Whatcha want.” Willie kicked
up a section of pavement, blushed, and said, “I’d
like to see a fellow inside.” “Who?” bellowed the
head. “Me,” said Willie in a wee sma’ voice.

Well, finally things came to such a pretty pass
that Willie got out his old man’s best clothes line,
went out in front of his house, and hung himself.
A little more soft music, Millie. Try “Hanging on

lost

' the Garden Gate.”

i

I’ve lost my best character, so I'll have to end my
story about the lumber camps. That's what I get
for lumbering around on chutches this week.

Minister (Calling on a prisoner): ‘Remember,
Mr. Kelly, that stone walls do not a prison make,
not iron bars a cage.”

Prisoner: “Well, they must have me hypnotized.”

Beggar: “Please give a poor old. blind man a
dmae.”

Citizen: “Why, you can see out of one eye.”

Blind man: “Well, give me a nickel then.”

First doctor: “Tell me, doc, have you
a serious mistake in diagnosis?”

Second doctor: “Yes once, I told a man he had a
touch of indigestion, afterwards I found out that
he was rich enough to have had appendicitis.”

ever made

f
