THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 19, 1931

——

RECORD OF

1921 CLASS

Alumni Marriages

Last fall a sum of slightly over $33.00,
which was the reserve of a reunion fund,
was turned over to the alumni secretary
by the class of 1921, and the suggestion
was made that it be utilized in making a
survey of that class at some time during
the year. The suggestion was followed out,
and a questionnaire sent to members of
that class. Not all of them responded, but
those who did, and the information ob-
tained, is given below:

James Richmond Boulware, A.B, Day-
idson; M.D., University of Virginia, spe-
cializing in pediatrics; married; now at
Marble Arcade Buildng, Lakeland, Fla.

Cecil Kenneth Brown, A.B., Davidson;
M.A. and Ph.D., Universty of North Caro-
lina; also student at University of Be-
saucon, France, and Columbia University ;
author of two books; now professor at
Davidson,

Samuel A. Burgess, B.S., Davidson; life
insurance business, having been located in
Cleveland, Oklahoma City, St. Paul, Jack»
sonville, and now at 1209 Bank of Bay
Biscayne Bldg., Miami, Fla.; married, two
sons,

Walter Wilson Carter, B.S., Davidson;
studied law at University of North Caro-
lina and several trust schools; practiced
law in Mt. Airy; served in N. C. State
Senate in 1925; on Davidson board of trus-
tees for several years; trust officer of San
Angelo (Texas) National Bank; now
trust consultant Aetna Life Insurance Co.,
323 W. Gramercy St., San Antonio, Texas;
married, one son.

J. Eris Cassell, A.B., Davidson; student,
University of Vrgina; married; taught
school at McCallie, Lenoir, principal of
Gastonia schools five years, and now com-
pleting second year principal of Concord
High School. ‘

Henry B. Culbreth, A.B., Davidson;
with Equitable Life Assurance Society,
formerly at Memphis, Chicago and New
York, now at Wilson, N: C.; married, one
daughter.

Armand L. Currie, B.S., Davidson; B.D.,
Louisville Seminary; Y. M. C. A. secre-
tary at Davidson; pastor at Paducah, Ky,.,
and now pastor of Moore Memorial Pres:
byterian Church, Nashville, Tenn.; mar-
ried, one son.

John McNeely’ Dunlap, B.S., Davidson;
student, University of North Carolina;
principal of Piedmont Junor Heh School,
Charlotte; married, two sons.

D. Ralph Freeman, B.A., Davidson; B.
T)., Union Theological Seminary; pastor
at Arlington, Tenn., five years, and now
pustor at Draper, Va.; married, one son.

Franklin Fricker, A.B., Davidson; S. B.,
Mass. Institute of Technology; principal,
Huntingtown (Md.) high school one year;
technical sales promotion, Portland Ce-
ment Assn., Norfolk and Richmond, two
years; same capacity, Ethyl Gasoline
Corp., Detroit, Mich.; married.

John Moore Gaston, B.S., Davidson;
teacher, Cramerton, two years; East Gas-
tonia, one year; in textile business, three
years; married, one son, one daughte,

Marshall Brownlee Heizer, A.B., Dav-
idson; B.D., Union Theological Seminary ;
pastor, Brunswick Presbyterian Church,
Rawlings, Va., since 1925; Married, one
son, one daughter.

Hadley Alexander Hill, A.B., Davidson;
M.A., Columbia University; with sales de-
partment, Bartlett-Orr Press; plan and
research department, Chas, W. Hoyt Ad-
vertising Agency; research department,
Iron Age Publishing Co.; assistant and
general manager, Hardware Age- Maga-
zine and Eastern representative, Pacific
Coast Publishing Corp.; no wadvertising
representative, eastern territory, Case-
Shepperd-Mann Publishing Corp., at 22
East 38th St., New York.

John Dudley Howell, B.S., Davidson; in
accounting department, Atlantic Coast
Line Railroad, Box 22, Wilmington, mar-
ried, et :

.Chalmers Garold Long, A.B., Davidson;
Union Theological Semnary; D.D., Cen-
tral University; pastor, First Presbyteran

Church, Albemarle; married, two daugh-
ters.

Carl H. Long, building contractor; job
superintendent for James Baird Co., of
New York, building the Centenary Meth-
odist Cathedral, Winston-Salem; 800
Cloverdale Ave., Winston-Salem.

James Withers Long, B.S., Davidson;
with Long Brothers (cotton exporters)
and Long Brothers, general merchandise,
Uniontown, .Ala.; married.

Charles Moore McCaskill, B.S., David-
scn; for eight years, department manager,
Dodge Brothers, Shreveport, La.; now
territorial sales manager for Goodyear
Tire & Rubber Co., with headquarters at
Monroe, La.; married, one daughter.

Joseph C. McCaskill, A.B., Davidson;
M.A., Columbia Universty; student, N. Y.
School Social Work; Y. M. C. A. secre-
tary, Concord; now “Y” secretary, Mont-
clair, N. J., and instructor N. Y. School of
Social Work; married two sons.

Walter White McCorkle, B.S., David-

son; for two years in advertising depart-
ment of The Birmngham News, for last
cight years in accountng department and
assistant secretary of Ingalls Iron Works,
Birmingham, Ala.; married, two daugh-
ters.
William Henry Miley, Jr. A.B., David-
son; Internationa 1 Correspend-
ence Schools; eight years in cotton mill
work at Cooleemee; for last two years,
superintendent of No. 5 Mill for the Er-
win Cotton Mill, Erwin, N. C. i

Frank Ernest Miller, B.S., Davidson;
hardware and_ furniture, retail business,
Whitmire, S. C.; married, one daughter.

Alexander . McFarlane Mitchell, A.B.,
Davidson; B.D., Union Theological Sem-
inary; teacher at Alabama Presbyterian
College, Anniston, ‘Ala.: one year; pastor,
Selma, N. C., two years, now pastor, Ca-
milla, Ga.; married.

Clarence N. Morrison, A.B., Davidson;
B.D., Union Theological Sentinary; two
years, pastor at Whitsett, N. C.: since
1928, pastor of Glenwood Presbyterian
Church, Greensboro; married.

Alexander Pierce Ormond, A.B., David-
son; M.D., University of Pennsylvania;
student, Emory University, Ga.; two
years, resident physician Philadelphia
General Hosptal; one year with Akron
(Ohio) Clinic; now practicing medcine at
Stow, Ohio, and member of medical staff,
Akron City Hospital; married, one daugh-
ter.

Norma Baba Pearah (formerly N, P.
Baba), B.S., Davidson; M.D., Kansas City
College of Medicine and Surgery; stu-
dent, Yale University and University of
Virginia; in several hospitals in New
York and St. Louis; now practicng at
Helena, Ark,

_ Stafford M. Query, A.B., Davdson; B.D.,
Uniorr Theological Seminary; since grad-

=

Caison-Matheson

Alphonso A. Caison, 1928 graduate, of
Charlotte, and Miss Martha Matheson, of
Statesville, were married in Lancaster, S. C.,
on March 4. Mr. Caison, whose original home
was in Savannah, Ga., has been employed
by the American Trust Company, of Char-
lotte, since finishing at Davidson. Mrs.
Caison is a graduate of Mitchell College,
and has made her home in Charlotte during
the past year. At present, Mr. and Mrs.
Caison are at home at 2009 East Fifth St.,
Charlotte.

Johnson- Young

David W. Johnson, 1928 alumnus of Da-
vidson, of Fayetteville, and Miss Lorraine
Young, of Lumber Bridge, were married at
the home of the Presbyterian minister at
Lake City, S. C., on February. 14. Mr. John-
son was originally from Rex, N. C., but
now resides at Fayetteville, where he is in
the employ of the Gulf Refining Company.
Mr. and Mrs. Johnsonsare at home on Rus-
sell Street, Fayetteville.

uation at latter, pastor at Montvale, Va.;
married,

David Worth Roberts, A.B., Davidson;
B.D., Union Theological Seminary; Th.
M., Princeton Universty; pastor, Third
Presbyterian Church, New Orleans, La.;
marred,

Birchie Walton Romefelt, B.S., David-
son; stocks and bonds, Asheville; since
1929 associated with Chase National Bank,
New York; elected assistant cashier in
January, 1930, in securities divison; mar-
ried, two daughters, one son.

John Harris Sample, B.S., Davidson;
student, University of North Carolina ;
since 1924 attorney-at-law in firm of
Campbell, Sample and Miller, Asheville,

Lewis Bevens Schenck, A.B., Davidson;
B.D., Union Theological Seminary; Th.
M., Princeton Theological Seminary; stu-
dent, Yale Graduate School, Cornell sum-
mer school; assistant pastor First Pres-
byterian Church, Huntington, W. Va.;
professor of Bible, Marshall College,
Huntington, W. Va.; now associate pro-
fessor at Davidson; married.

Frederick Noll Thompson, B.S., David-
son; street and highway paving contrac-
tor; Vice-President and Treasurer, Noll
Construction Co., Charlotte; married, two
daughters,

Chas. R. Vance, B.S., Davidson; for
over. eight years was with Caldwell &
Company, with headquarters in Greens-
boro; married, one son.

My hearty endorsement to one detail in
Dr. Butler’s program: I am in favor of
his plan to regulate the weather at football
games. — President O’Donnell of Notre
Dame.

UNDERWEAR OF DISTINCTION

SHIRTS AND SHORTS

Some men say amusing things about color in shirts and shorts
—but no one questions the unusual comfort in this two-piece
underwear as made by HANES. We've taken track-athlete free-
dom and enlarged on it a bit for men who’ve dropped their
calisthenics, but who love comfort none the less. We are a little
tickled, too, that we can match the weird colors in your ties, your

| shirts, and your socks—though there is pure white, of course.

P. H. HANES KNITTING COMPANY
. Winston-Salem, N. C.

ALUMNI PERSONALS |

Among recent alumni visitors to the cam-
pus were Ruffner Campbell, 10, of Ashe-
ville; D. G. Wilson, ’26, of Greensboro;
Clisby DuBose, ’28, of New York; R. E.
Kell, ’29, of Franklin, Tenn.;' R. H. Rath-
ford, ’27, and W. T. Ratchford, ’30, both
of Gastonia.

Friends will regret to learn that the fol-
lowing relatives of alumni have died re-
cently: Mother of R. S. Haltiwanger, ’14,
of Winston-Salem; a brother of Dr. W. R.
Kell, ’85, and Dr. T. G. Kell, ’04, both of
Pascagoula, Miss., and father of Wilbur L.
Hodgin, ’27, 6f Greensboro. These are in
addition to the alumni survivors of alumni
who have recently died, and which are men-
tioned in other columns of this page.

Davidson College alumni will also uni-
versally regret to learn of the death of Cap-
tain C. S. Morrison, who for many years
had been conducted on the Southern Rail-
way trains that passed through Davidson.
Captain Morrison always spoke very highly
of Davidson students and their conduct,
and in a conversation with him before Christ-
mas, Captain Morrison spoke enthusiastically
of the courteous conduct of the Davidson
boys he had known. “Of course, they had
to have their fun,” he added.

Rev. R. W. Culbertson, ’83, has retired
from the ministry. For the past 12 years he
was pastor of a group of churches near
Charlotte. He will reside with a daughter
at Carthage, N. C.

It is now Major Fred L. Black, 04, Major
Black was recently promoted from a cap-
taincy. He is in the quartermaster corps and
is now stationed at the Presidio of San
Francisco, Calif.

Notice

TO THE COLLEGE BOYS

Why pay $1.25 for half soles
when you can take them to
the
DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP
and get the same sole with
better work for only 85c

Try Us and See
C. A. KENNEDY, Prop.

Captain W. A. Dumas, ’15, stationed at
West Point as an instructor of military sci-
ence at the academy there, spoke over the
Columbia broadcasting network on the morn-
ing: of February 21. Captain Dumas spoke
from Carnegie Hall on behalf of all the pa-
triotic societies of New York, which affair
was sponsored particularly by the Sons of
the Revolution. Those who heard Captain
Dumas’ address spoke most favorably of it.

Paul DeL. Mazyck, ’12, was » approved
by the Unifed States Senate last week as
postmaster at Gaffney, S. C.

E. L. Baxter Davidson, ’80, of Charlotte,
was re-elected last week as president of the
Mecklenburg Chapter of the Sons of the
American Revolution.

H. E. Fries, ’78, has been elected chair-
man of the Winston-Salem zoning board
of adjustment.

The Beta Rho Chapter of Nu Sigma Nu,
national medical fraternity, was installed at
Duke University Saturday. Davidson alumni
who were among the initiates included R. W.
Graves, ’26, Rome, Ga.; R. L. McMillan,
'27, Charlotte, and L. C. Roberts, ’30, Shelby.
All of these alumni are first-year medical
students at Duke.

Chih Meng, ’21, is associate director of
the China Institute of America, with head-
quarters in New York, at 119 W. 57th St.

Announcement has been received by the
alumni secretary that Dr. Hamilton W. Mc-
Kay, '06, and Dr. Robert W. McKay, ’17,
have changed their offices in Charlotte from
the Professional Building to the second floor
of the new Medical Arts Building, 121 W.
Seventh St.

A Complete Service

for School Publications

Yonuals
(Deine zines
Catalous

Jreu Books

Queen Cily PrintinaCo.
Chartotte D.C.

Gstat Hed 1H99

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
: RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Founded 1812. Jointly owned by the Synods of Virginia, North
Carolina, West Virginia, Appalachia ’

OFFERS

To Regular Students—Well balanced caurse, including a num-

ber of electives.

To Advanced Students—Specially chosen courses to fit each

individual case.

To the Most Successful Students—Five Fellowships, some resi-

dent, others abroad.

For Catalogue and information, address

Rev. B. R.

Lacy, Jr., D.D., President

pe

SENIORS

NOW IS THE TIME TO HAVE YOUR
ENGRAVED CARDS MADE

Best Quality and Prices ‘

Any Type of Engraving
P. M. CONWAY
27 Rumple
Representing

STANDARD PRINTING CO.
Charlotte, N. C.

a3

