THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 16, 1931

TILSON SUCCEEDS
YOUNGER AS
HEAD COACH

THE SPORTS PARADE

LAIRD TAKES
CHARGE OF VARSITY
BASKETBALL

{

So Monk is leaving us. Tough on‘ the home
team, perhaps, but true none the less. We who
were his pals in victory or defeat—and he

to mother?” No, Right out of a clear sky like
a thunderbolt just when all seemed settled for
the next five years came the news that Coach
Monk had accepted an offer from V. P. I., and
had signed a five-year contract.

It seems that wedding bells and butchers’ |

bills are two entirely different stories and
the landlord must be paid. The day is long
and the boss is mean. “Two can live as
cheap as one,” says Mr. Younger, “but only
about half as long.”

Well, we can't blame a man for leaving a
small-salaried job for a larger one, that is, in
so far as purely business is concerned, but when
one considers how long Coach Younger has
at Davidson, how long he and Tex have
been associated and working together, and the
many friendships they both have formed at Da-
vidson, it seems a pity that so many relations
should be disrupted.

been

What a pity, also, that the coaching staff
should be changed just at this time when
prospects for a real team in 1932 seem so
bright.

ideas—everything, mean beginning all over.

New coaches, new systems, new

The Athletic Council, which was meeting as
this issue went to press, wil] doubtless
nounce the appointment of Coach Tilson
head coach, and will take some action towards
securing someone to replace Coach Monk, The
council is in a position ‘to take action along
any number of lines, among which

an-

as

would be
the appointment of Flake Laird as head coach,
or retaining of Coach Tilson in his present ca-
pacity and securing some other coach from else-
where as backfield coach.

One name we have in mind which many
of the student body seem to regard favor-
ably is that of Capt. Norton G. Pritchett
of the physical education department. Of
course this would leave a vacancy which
would be hard to fill, but in our humble
opinion, Captain Pritchett is the very man
for the job as head coach. In the first place,
he knows football. Since he began his job
here as physical director, he. has shown him-
self to be a close observer, a man of keen
foresight, capable and able to perform any
job, and last but not least of all, a man who
It is doubtful as to
whether Captain Pritchett: would accept the
position should he receive an offer, but we
would urge that his name be given serious
consideration.

commands respect.

Thus ends the discussion on coaches. Perhaps
the conncil will secure Chick Mechan of the
New York Violets as head coach. Chick, you
know, has resigned as head coach—at a salary
of only $18.000 too. Couldn’t stard a cut in thes=
hard times—or was it that he couldn’t stand
the gaff of public criticism for his policies in
regard to the subsidizing of athletes?

‘One thing the council must do. It must
select a man favorable to the Davidson stu-
dent body. Without the co-operation of the
students, no man can succeed, and you can
take that for what it’s worth—as the city
slicker said to the organ grinder’s monkey
as he threw him a phoney nickel.

Merry Christmas.

O ¢ ‘Complete Service

forSchool Publications

'

alo« ( S
View Books

( ity PrintinaGo.

crbotte 1? ¢

Qiv '

Ch

| Announcement
leaves us. And did he “break the news gently |

“MONK” YOUNGER TO COACH V. P.

Will Leave Davidson in

June and Assume New
Position in September

Made at Blacksburg Is
Surprise to Davidson Officials

Announcement was made at Blacksburg last
Saturday that William L. “Monk” Younger, who

| ; . .
has been head coach at Davidson since 1923,

had accepted a position as assistant coach at
Virginia Polytechnic Institute and will direct
the athletics of the school along with Henry B.
“Puss” Redd, who was elevated to head coach
to succeed Orville Neal.

The addition of Younger to the Virginia
school’s coaching staff is a step to elevate the
standing of V. P. I. in the athletic world, it was
announced. Younger had been approached sey
eral times before to accept such a position but
had declined offers until recently,

News of Younger’s acceptance of the V. P. I.
position came as a distinct surprise te David-
son, largély because last September it was-an-
nounced by Davidson officials that had
signed a new five-year contract here.

When approached concerning the announce-
ment of his leaving Davidson, Coach Younger
said that he had not renewed his» Davidson
contract and that he would not leave here until
June when his present contract ends. He will
assume his new duties in September,

Younger also expressed tegret to leave Da-
vidson, stating that if he did not feel that he
was bettering himself by the move he: would
not make it.

he

In his nine years as head coach here Younger
has met with great success in athletics. He has
put the Wildcats among. the in the
state and has brought favor to himself from
Davidson alumni and officials. In addition he
is held in high esteem by Davidson students,

leaders

who. regret his leaving.

(Continued on page 5)

Much Progress Is Made
In Fall Track Practice

Much progress has been made on the track
in the past three months under the coaching of
Capt. N. G. Pritchett, athletic director, and
Heath Whittle, assistant athletic director. The
main purpose of fall track is to work for form
the that
comes around everyone will be in pretty good
shape. Men out for the running events have
been working on arm action, stride, and pace,

in various events so when spring

while the weight men have been working on
the fundamentals of their events. Many of the
boys have been showing good form and will be
the mainstays of the track team in the spring.

Cochran, a Sophomore, has been regularly
hurling the discus around 116 feet, putting the
shot around 38 feet, and showing good form
on the javelin. Dill and Pete Knox
looking good in the weight events. Brannon,
Earle, Woodside, Morrow and Moss have been

are also

working hard and training regularly for the dis-
tance runs. Corbin is also doing work on the
half-mile run. Bob McCallie, Little, and Pratt
have been training for the hurdle events, while
Rhyne and T. H. McCallie have been develop-
ing in the high jump. McGehee and Halliburton
have been working on form in the 440, while
Fleagle, McMillan and Kuykendall are on the
sprints. 3

The Decathlon competition revealed a good
many men who will be assets to this year’s
Freshman team, Others, some of whom
fine high school records, have been doing some
hard and persistent fall track work, and show
prospects of a good team in the spring.

Those. who have been out so far are: Dulin
on the half-mile run; Glasgow and Gullette on
the 440-yard dash; McFadyen, Hubert Morris,
and on the distance runs; Harris and
Wordsworth on the hurdles; Dupuy on the
broad jump, and Quarterman and Voegtlen on
the pole vault. Coach Whittle urges as many
Freshmen as possible to come out for track after
Christmas and work on form, so as to get in
shape before track season in the spring.

have

Rose

Red Laird to Coach Varsity
Basketball This Season

For the first time since 1923 Davidson's
hopes on the basketball court will depend on
other than “Monk” Younger. Flake
Laird, lately of the Freshman coaching. staff,

has taken over the coaching duties of the Wild-

someone

cat court team and-will try his luck in present-
ing Davidson with a winning combination.
Younger has declined the basketball coaching
in order to concentrate his efforts
football training. He intends to
the spring practices immediately after exams
and continue them threugh the second week of
March,
chances on the gridiron next fall. In addition

duties on

spring start

with hopes of improving Davidson's
Coach Younger will direct the Freshman has-
kethall team,

Coaching varsity athletics at Davidson is not
new to Laird, since he successfully guided the
Wildeats on the diamond last spring. For the
three Laird has had charge
Freshman football, basketball and baseball. His
proteges on the gridiron this fall enjoyed one

past years of

of the most successful seasons of any first-year
teamsin Davidson's history.

Laird graduated from Davidson in the class
of '26. While here he played on the Wildeat
football, basketball and baseball teams, making
letters in all three sports for three years. He
was also captain of the 1926 basketball team
After leaving school Laird spent several sum
mers pitching professional baseball in Georgia,
his home state.

The first winter after his graduation Laird
coached athletics in the City High Sehool in
Atlanta. Phe following winter he returned to
North “Carolina where he assumed duties at
Catawba College in Salisbury. In 1929 he came
to Davidson where he has guided the Wildkit-
tens’ hopes ever since.

» At the Laird is coaching the
Freshman basketball prospects in addition to the

present time

varsity. He will, however, release the yearlings

to Coach Younger who will direct them through

their 1932 schedule, while also coaching funda

mentals in spring football training.

Many Men Practice for
Fresh Basketball Team

Prospects for a Freshman basketball
team at Davidson College began to material-
ize when an unusually large number of candi-

rood

dates answered the initial call for practice. Men
with reputations
have
been getting into shape through nightly prac-

splendid preparatory school

turned out, and for about a week now

tices under the direction of Coach * Monk”
Younger, who took over the yearlings when
“Red” Laird was appointed head baskethall

coach.

This is extremely carly in the season to at-
tempt to say who will compose the first team.
However, there are a number ‘of men with fine
reputations due to past performances on the
court.

Johnny Mackorell, Hickory High
School star, will not report for practice until
after the holidays. He has been unable to prac-

erstwhile

tice up to now due to an injury received dur-
ing the past football season.

Sob Everett is a veteran of six years’ ex-
perience, playing four of these on the varsity
at Laurinburg High School.

Charlie Harris, luminary from Virginia [pis-
copal School, was high scorer in the state of
Virginia last year, and captain of his team.

Others who look particularly good include
such versatile performers as Smathers, llvery,
Yelverton, and West. These boys have all played
good ball, and a great deal is expected of them.

Business men at Flagstaff, Ariz., have started
a movement to collect a fund to be used in paint-
ing on the side. of. Mount Elden, nearby, a huge
letter “A, standing for the Arizona State

re

“DRUGS”

Students’

: “PRESCRIPTIONS”

Make Our Store Your Store

WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.

Teachers College, located at Flagstaff.
“SODA”

Supplies :

“SUNDRIES” ~

Davidson Handicap Ping
Pong Tournament Ends

The great All-Davidson Handicap Ping Pong
Tournament has finally come to a breath-taking
close. The winner, Judge Cathey, received the
trophy amid the playing of bands and the ap-
the many of spectators,
thrilled to by the
desperate chances taken by the players during

plause of thousands

who were the bone many
the course of the tournament.

This thrilling set of matches comes as a bril-
liant to the football
ceded in popularity among the intercollegiate
sports only by football and: tiddledewinks.

In the finals, there was a silent, breath-tak-
ing while the looked
paddles over and sized their opponents up. The

air

close season, and is ex-

pause contestants their
was very tense, and it seemed as though
the room was charged with electricity. Then,
amid the applause of the spectators, the match
began. Crashing serves and multi-typed volleys
were the minor features of this thrilling match.
In this corner, Steve Brown was trying val-
iantly to take the match from “Judge” Cathey,
In the
scoring, Judge was found to be on the spot with

who was frothing at the mouth. final
his longer experience and his superior knowl-
edge of the game, so he lucked out on Steve,
21-17; 21-12; and 24-22. However, whatever
the outcome, this match was worth the many
of dollars the spent to
Witness it. There was never a moment of ‘rest,
and at

thousands onlookers
the close of the match the contestants
appeared to have been under the third degree
for the past few days.

In the semi-finals, Steve Brown played “Na-
poleon” Hind and also lucked out on him, and
Judge Cathey had the luck of drawing a bye.
This was very handy, for at the end of four
straight, steady, gruelling days of match ping
pong play, even the most. sturdy of men crum-
ble like dust. :

Younger-Tilson Teams
Have Enviable Record

Basketball Candidates
To Start Practice Two
Days Early After Xmas

Basketball players of Davidson College will
return to the campus two days before the speci-
fied Christmas recess period terminates, to be-
gin an intensive five-day preparation for the
University of North Carolina Tar Heels, who
will be met in Charlotte in the opening cage
contest of the season. This announcement was
today by Red Laird, who this year
the varsity.
now and the beginning of the holi-
day period on December 22, the Wildcats will
be mastering the fundamentals of basketball/and
working out the system of offense and défense
which will be used during the 1932 season.
The students are scheduled to re-assemble on
Wednesday, January 6, but the basketball play-
ers will arrive on Monday, January 4.

For a number of years the Wildcat court
team has almost universally used the zone de-

made here
is tutoring
Between

fense, but Coach Laird plans to utilize two de-
fensive systems. He will therefore use the man-
to-man, and will decide whether his men will
play the zone and man-to-man defense accord-
ing to the opponents which are to be met. Some-
time he will use both systems in the same game,
when the other not seem to be
working effectively against the particular team
that is being played.

one or does

In the early practices, he has been using
Bernard at center, Peabody and Martin at for-
wards, and Captain Mathis and Wagner as
guards most of the time. Bernard is being used
at center on the offensive, but takes the post
of guard on defense, with Martin changing po-
sitions with him on defense. The Davidson cap-
tains Mathis, is being used as a running guard,
and when the Wildcats drop back on the zone
defense, Coach Laird has Martin, Bernard and
Wagner clustered: about the basket, with the
diminutive players, Mathissand Peahody, out in
front.

year that Younger and Tilson coached here.
Fifteen of the total 38 losses occurred these two
years. In 1927, 1929, and this past fall, David-
sai broke even in wins and losses, and in 1930
the advantage was in favor of the win column.

: Year W L T
A review of the nine-year record of the | 1923 --------------------------- 3 7 0
Younger-Tilson-coached machines at Davidson] 1924 ~-------------------------- 6 2 1
College shows that during that period, 88 con-| 1925 ~-------------------------- 6 2 2
tests were played, 43 of which were won, 38]1926 ~-------------------------- 7 2 1
lost, and seven tied. The best years were 1924, LOZ JB Bee eee er een cranes 4 4 1
1925 and 1926, when the Wildcats lost but two IOZN ee toSauan se wan aunos eee (4 8 0
contests cach year, winning the state champion -4 1929 won nnn nnnn anne nen nn----5 5 0
ship in 1926. The leanest of all was in 1928 lOGOR soos eee cee See ocea anes 6 4 0
when Davidson won but two contests, theugh | 1931 4 2
the Wildeats only won three victories the first 38 d
re eo
re 4
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Faculty of Distinguished Scholars
Student body drawn from forty-two Colleges and Universities.
Alumni in every Synod, in every Presbytery, and on every
Mission Field of the Southern Presbyterian Church.
Catalog and information on request.
oe eo!
e9

7} ta

Davidson Theatre

“THE CHAM
with |

. WALLACE BEERY

Mevdas: December 21st

99

