THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 23, 1931

5

Give Them a Chance
Why Not?

(Excerpt from August First Edition, Prison
news.)

A momentous problem which confronts the
citizens of the State of North Carolina is that
dealing with the contintied steady increase in
the population of the State’s penal institutions.
Its seriousness affects in some measure every
inhabitant,of the State, an@ while human na-
ture is prone to side-step unpleasant situations,
this question is one that cannot much longer
be ignored. There is no need, at this late date,
to moralize upon the fact that the various
crimes and offenses against society, for which
more than 2,600 individuals are now confined
on the State’s Prison, should not have been
committed. Many of the prisoners themselves
are fully aware of the truthfulness of such a
statement, but all of this is beside the point as
regards the best solution of a situation which
does exist and one which daily becomes more
perplexing.

The humane side of the matter, alone, repre-
sents a grave responsibility. Hard-boiled indif-
ference and fanatical adverse opinions of the
self-righteous, aggravated by grievous offenses
on the part of the vicious, the depraved or the
unfortunate, in nowise release anyone from a
moral obligation to serve as their “brother's
keeper.” 0

The purely economic features involved in the
prison problem are tremendous. General condi-
tions make it no longer possible to profitably
employ any except a small percentage of prison-
ers and the expense of maintaining several
hundred in idleness runs into a surprising sum
in the course of a year. And this unavoidable
financial loss must of necessity fall upon the
already over-burdened shoulders of the tax-
payers. Prisons are not only for the purpose
of protecting society and punishing those guilty
of offenses against its laws, but at the same
time an effort should be made to rehabilitate
the offender. The length of time necessary to
accomplish this result varies with each differ-
ent individual. Some will never reform, others
have no need of it since they are merely the
victims of circumstances and ill-fortune and
are in no sense criminals at heart, while many
have to be purged by this fire of imprisonment,
Our opinion ‘6n the matter may be prejudiced
but at any rate it is a first-hand one resulting
from several years’ close association with all
kinds of prisoners and we are firmly convinced
that several hundred of our inmates could be
released immediately at a gain to themselves,

their dependents and the taxpayers of the
State.

Rather than require that a prisoner serve
a stated number of months or years, as the
case may he, and then be released to follow
his own desires and inclinations, wouldn't _ it
better meet the ends of justice, as far as both
society and the prisoner himself is concerned,
to parole him when he has completed one-half
or two-thirds of his original sentence, provided
that he has conducted himself in a seemly man-
ner and has given evidence that he will con-
tinue so to da if placed on probation?

The prison officials; through their daily con-
tact with their wards, should be the judges
as to an inmate’s worthiness for parole rather
than court officials who sat in judgment on
his case in the past—dim distant past, in many
cases. Those released under this suggested pa-
role plan, and by the word “parole” we do
notin any sense mean merely “turned loose,”
should be required to find employment imme-
diately and should continue to follow a gainful
occupation. Evidence that they are thus en-
gaged should be furnished the prison officials
once each month in the form of a statement
from a reliable person setting forth the nature
of the employment, the amount received for
same and the reason for any lapse in their la-
bors. A similar monthly report as to their
good behavior or otherwise, should also be filed
with the prison officials, Reporting direct to
the prison authorities once each month would
Prove to be a much more efficient deterrent
from further wrong-doing than would a hap-
hazard method of sending word to some local
county officer that their behavior has heen
above reproach. These prison “bosses” are hard
to fool as many have learned to their sorrow.
_And hence by parole, we mean a definite pe-
riod of actual probation, If this monthly evi-
dence of employment and good behavior should
be required for two years without showing a
relapse, we feel sure that the patient might
reasonably be considered cured, and the parole
lifted.

Who would lose by the adoption of this
plan? No one at all. And the gainer? The
prisoner, by reason of being given an oppor-
tunity to rehabilitate himself, his dependents
and loved ones. And to the State of North
Carolina would accrue a two-fold gain—the
expense saved in maintaining him in an insti-
tution as well as the material and social ‘ad-
vantage of reclaiming him to-a future life: of
usefulness. :

The Prisdn News, edited and published by
the prisoners, is our only mouth-piece. We
have tried as best we know how for several
years to correctly portray the prisoner’s view-
point in regard to the various handicaps and

FACULTY DIRECTORY

Name Office
ATDUCKIE: Hi Bi dobecddsdadsas Chemistry Lab.
Beaty bv AvsekabwactL LoL oLilsS 207. Chambers
Blant6n;—-W+-bictes=cebel clus fssss03 Armory
Bivthe, hy oo coshiesesobeleces 303. Chambers
Brown, Gokiadsleevescuduccles sf 221 Chambers
BLOW) brank Nicesosonctsaces Biology Lab.
GaldWellpoD seas ceececlsccleccecccchecesescs
Gochtany Ree Mescoccccbbonsebo seer Armory
Giitrimitigy «Wr -bccecedtetusces 2-B Chambers
Gtlfrie; Archibaldsessccscossoces 316 Chambers
WOUTIAS; Js Weancaeseunnosecceecu+. Ghainpers
DOURIES) J MisscccecLueccanass 136 Chambers
EWI thy 4) ;oeeeeeesssecesenensel 0; G@hanibers
itlavsons MiSs Djcsucccososaas 106 Chambers
Hleagle she Kise fess eee oeeoae 303 Chambers
Boreal} We resdececeseeenases 3-B Chambers
BilGhet Eli byeeccewanccecowaus 127 Chambers
Goldiérey Ay Vic20222262--.2555603) Ghambets

Chambers
Chambers

Grey, W.
Gwynn, P.

Harding, C. Chambers
HenReVelds (hy Wissuscsescuucss 118 Chambers
Hobatt hie Disscsccccuses Basement of Watts
Hoodphrdzetuseoesceecueeeucueecoo: Ghambers
SHMDrOUGH lol ceseuescecacases 103 Chambers
JACKSON Ni sy aseonnucesccoouaSs 109 Chambers
Baird 3Gre heesscoce Wuiaboesaucase Gymnasium
Lilly, H. ---217 Chambers
Lingle, T. (\enaaducsuuccaasecucl/aGhambers
WiielepeWiclvccesse see sewesseue 116 Chambers
VON jo oN Gisccessecesccccesacced04 Ghambetrs,
MCGCONNE AoW ese ccouecueucasvoes Infirmary
MeGonnell;-j.-Myseeccenn cc cueee 113.Chambers
McG@iullousht: Bick erases cl a ee ce
M@DaneraWate Nicene eo ucee 125 Chambers
MGGiIToMraWhestescse hs 0202 107 Chambers

Chambers

NGAI Pere Bic cuscousbeucesucus 106 Chambers
RASMOLe, MISS: |iconucassepunweoeeuns Library
ROKtEHEAW aaleeaccouscsscuLo sues Chambers
Pritchett, Carl Mie GAS
Pritchett, N, G Chambers
WiGhards;2GraMiescceascsscose. 202 Chambers
RGDSON; OMTsicAs iucchacauccucdanes Infirmary
SCHGNGK; ly) DindesdoceeaceeebeeZlOn hampers
Scott WcMeciessceu cel aucueelaeages Armory
Santelle; Myon cc esscececeecess 111 Chambers
SHAW AMMNSS1 Gesu lo camwocucn osueeee Library
Shewmake, EF. ---317 Chambers

Sith MESMIN  beceseaeseoes Parlor of Watts
Stcclense Miss: Os. eee oot ooo 114 Chambers
CGS HO led ieee ee eae Chemistry Lab,

Wiotovonpotoyn, Whey Wb 110 Chambers
NISON tO re Sato Seon ee Gymnasium
Wngete ImoWreootercedescleeteees Gymnasium
Vowles, G, R.2--22---_-_______-23-A Chambers
AVWihittlerssHlGathesssoces tee a ee an
Williams a)nabeodo sees cesses as 108 Chambers
Wood Wie Wise see see ee e _--234 Chambers
WOU e Cre Wi lbesese cons Seen

Office phone Res. phone

200 Concord Road 47-J
Concord Street
Concord Street 190
Dr. Grey’s Home 62
Concord Road 212
Mrs. DeVane's Home 113
Concord Street
S. Main Street 84
Concord Road 181
N. Main Street 129
Concord Street 132
Concord Street "None
Faculty Heights 128
Mr. Jackson’s Home 55
Faculty Heights 114
Carolina Inn 66-W
Faculty Heights 49-\
Concord Street 166
N. Main Street 62
Concord Street
N. Main Street 68-]
143 Concord Street 146
S. Main Street 19
Concord Road 112
Dr. Hood’s Home 112
89 Concord Street 55
202 Gymnasium 202
Dr. J. W. MeConnell's 123
Concord Road 125
101 N. Main Street 94
N. Main Street 187
N. Main Street 6
80 South Street 123
Mrs. DeVane's Home b13
Faculty Heights 134-]
192 Concord Street 85
157 N. Main. Street 177
192 Mount Mourne
71 Hotel 90
Faculty Heights 147
174 Mrs. DeVane’s Home 113
214 N. Main Street 163
Concord Street 57
80 Infirmary 80
N. Main Street 46
N. Main Street 156
102 Main Street None
71 N. Main Street
Concord Street 139
Glasgow Road 17
109 Prof. Mebane’s Home 134-J
200 Faculty Heights 161
89 Main Street 53
Faculty Heights 134-W
202 Gymnasium 202
Iaculty Heights 162
Mrs. DeVane'’s Home 113
N. Main Street 170

Concord Street
Concord Street

. HONEST MIRRORS

One of the most fashionable and expensive
luxuries of today is a mirror of quartz crystal;
not a large mirror, of course, for such a thing
could not be procured anywhere in the world,
material of which to make it being lacking—
but a hand glass of small size. Quartz crystal
is rarely found in flawless pieces weighing
more than a few ounces. The mirror of quartz
crystal has one very interesting advantage over
glass—it is colorless. No matter how fine the
“plate’’ may be, mirror glass is never perfectly
white, if such a term may be used in signifying
lack of color. You can see this for yourself if
you will take a look through it edgewise. So
viewed it will appear greenish.

Now, this greenish tint is a serious misfor-
tune in my lady’s toilet glass, for, on account
of it, the mirror does not do her complexion
justice. It detracts from the rosy hue of her
skin.

With the quartz crystal, however, it is dif-
ferent. A slab of it is just about the most col-
orless thing in nature; and when skilfully cut
and backed with a film of silver like an ordi-
nary mirror, it gives back to the eye of her
who looks into it all the rosy tints, unmodified
by greenish or other unpleasing rays: Hence,
its popularity as material for a costly looking-
glass. “Costly” is an appropriate word, inas-
much as such a hand glass, of small size, may
easily be worth from one hundred to five hun-
dred dollars—The Saturday Evening Post.

PAY UP NOW

An old hardened criminal in the Minnesota
State Prison was asked recently what was the
first step that led to his ruin, and he answered:
“The first step that led to my downfall was
cheating an editor out of two years’ subscrip-
tion. When I had done that the devil had such
a grip on me that I could not shake him off.”
We are not printing this because’ we need
money, but for your own sake. We don’t want
to see any of our subscribers in the same plight
as that fellow. If you should owe some paper

struggles under which we are compelled to
“carry on.” We will apprciate a frank expres-
sion from the press of the State regarding
their opinion of this suggested plan of paroling
prisoners, -

it might be well to pay up befere such a thing
does happen to you.—Tioga Gazette:

WHAT IS EXPECTED OF US

A boy just out of high school had secured
a rather difficult position for one of his years,
and a friend who saw him afterward was mak-
ing inquiries about it. “Pretty hard work, isn’t
it 2”

“Yes, it’s hard.”

“The men who have had that job before you
have been older than you, I imagine!”

“Yes, I believe I’m the youngest fellow who
has ever tried to hold it down.”

“Do you think you're going to be able to
vive’ satisfaction 2?”

A twinkle game into the boy’s eye. “Why,
I rather think I'll have to,” he replied. “You
see, mother expects me to.”

That answer was more than a jest. There is
inspiration in the thought that our friends ex-
pect big things of us. There are times in the
life of almost every one when self-confidence
fails. Our faith in ourselves and our future
needs to be bolstered up by another’s faith in
us. Blessed is he whose friends believe in him,
and who feels that he has no choice but to
measure up to their faith. That is what Emer-
son meant when he said that the office of a
friend was to make us do our best.—Selected.

A “WANT AD”

One of our district superintendents will want
a man for a hard charge, small salary, church
in debt, people as fine as God: ever made.

But it is not a case where “any dude will
do.” He thinks the people deserve the best and
he wants a man such as a new Episcopal bishop
recently described, in an address to the clergy:

“You are supposed,” he said, “to have the
learning of a scholar, the logic of a lawyer, the
peripatetic energy of a family doctor, the ex-
quisiteness of an artist, the wizardry of a finan-
cier, the popularity of a Rotarian, the sanctity
of a saint.”

If you know such a man, we can steer him
toward. a hard job next conference—Michigan
Christian Advocate.

Certain winds will make men’s temper bad.—
George Eliot.

Social Fraternities
Issue Bids Tonight

’ The annual rushing season of the social fra-
ternities on the campus of Davidson College
comes to a close tonight. Each year all fra-
ternities are allowed about two weeks to look
over and choose the men whom they wish to
This year the official
rushing season closes on the night of Septem-
ber 22. The day of silence begins on that night
at 10 p. m., and closes the following evening
at 7 p.m. During this time fraternity men are
not allowed to speak to any. Freshman.

On the morning of September 23, bids or

take in as members.

invitations to joins will be issued to those who
are to be offered membership by each fraternity.
After 7 o'clock of this night, two representa-
tives from each fraternity are allowed thirty
minutes to talk with to whom it has
issued bids. After this time the “representatives
must leave and allow the Freshman the same
amount of time to think things over before
seeing another fraternity’s delegation.

If a Freshman “bid” decides to accept the
invitation offered him, he does so by going

those

alone to the lodge of the fraternity, after wait-
ing for thirty minutes from the time he is last
talked to by the representatives of that group.
list of the fraternities
which will issue bids: Beta Theta Pi, Kappa
Alpha, Kappa Phi Delta Theta, Phi
Gamma Delta, Pi Kappa Alpha, Sigma Alpha
Ipsilon, Sigma Phi Epsilon, and Theta Upsilon
Omega,

Additions Are Made
In College Handbook

The following is a

Sigma,

-_-

Edition Dedicated to Carl Pritchett,
Secretary of “Y”

Wildeat Handbook had few
changes in it, being as usual a source of very
helpful information, “especially Freshmen.
The 1931-32 edition was dedicated Carl
Pritchett, “Y" seeretary, in behalf of his ben-

This ‘year’s

for

to

son College,

books, thus aiding in finding various informa-

tion, There is also a-picture of the. president

or
This handbook also contains a
historical sketch of the college which it did not
have last year. Another important addition is
the “Who's Who at which

the names of all class and college officials.

box ie,

Davidson,”

hook dedicated to Freshmen. This book gives
much helpful to and
saves a great deal of time,

With few changes
makes the handbook a

information Ireshmen

it
in-

these and additions
source of valuable
formation to every college student.

Freshmen Are Examined -
After Orientation Week

Change in Last Year’s Plans is New

Feature
At a variance with last year’s plan of physical
examinations, the I'reshmen were not exam-
ined until after the orientation period, so that

the other features of that period. The exam-
inations were not begun until Monday, Septem-
ber 14th, and were completed by taking the
and at night on last Thursday.

The upper classmen will be taken care of in
a similar manner, beginning with the Sopho-
mores, and taking the Juniors and Seniors con-
secutively. These examinations are holding to
their regular rigidity and thoroughness, includ-
ing a stressing of typhoid and small-pox inocu-
lation as well as urinal examination. Dr. J. W.
MacConnell, college physician, is in complete
charge.

Nowadays everybody wears chains and never
thinks of getting them off. They juggle with
them, outwit the laws.—Jonathan Leonard.

eficial and untiring efforts as secretary of the |
Young Men's Christian Association of David- |

™
One of the changes contains the table of con- |
tents which indexes the handbook into different |

leader of each particular division and an)
introductory sketch at the beginning of each |
concise |

gives |

Probably the most important addition is a

this procedure would not conflict with any of |

men in alphabetical sections in the afternoons |
|

Book Review

Shadows on the Rock, Willa Cather. Alfred A.

Knopf, N. Y.

A recent offering of the Book-of-the-Month
Club, Shadows on the Rock, by Willa Cather,
is a pleasant relief from the usual cynicism and
hurry-up tempo which characterizes so much
present day fiction. It is being accorded as great
a welcome by literary critics as was her last
success, Death Comes for the Archbishop, and,
like it, is written with the same serenity and
calmness that is the outstanding feature of Miss
Cather’s style.

No complicated and fast-moving plot has
been built up, but instead the author has taken
a half-dozen characters who lived in Quebec
in the early eighteenth century and has shown
them to us as they went about their daily tasks.
Not their great moments, not the dramatic
events, but the simple routine of the lives of
these few people constitute the story.

The household of Euclid Auclair, the apothe-
cary; patron, Count Frontenac; Auclair’s
motherless daughter, Cecilia; her little friend,
Monseigneur de Saint-Vallier; Bishop
these are the shadows

his

Jacques ;
Laval; Pierre Charron
on the rock of Quebee. These are the charac-
ters that Miss Cather with artistic simplicity
If the action centers around
any it little Cecilia
whose devotion to her father, whose kindness

makes live again,
one person, is perhaps
to Jacques, and whose affection for Pierre is
to The all
colored by the religious piety of the
af the colony.
The very fact

}some of that
| proves that

deeply

and

\ v3 ; f
beautiful see. lives of are

age

Willa

feeling

Cather transmits
to the reader
a notable piece of

that
religious
she Jhas done
}work, for one does actually feel a sense of up-
| litt the Its purpose
| seems the presentation of a group of
beaytiful friendships. In the midst of the ram-
| pant popularity of realism, S/iadows on the
Kock is hopeful and idealistic.

| —H.

as he reads hook main

to be

C. McFadyen.

Six Men Are Given Bids
To Join Dramatic Club

Flinn, McConnell, McFadyen, Pea-
| body, and Pope Selected

Six bids were issued Monday by the Red
and Black Masquers for membership in the
Key Club. They were made to men who had
done. previous work on the Davidson stage or
who had shown an. interest in the club's pro-
| ceedings. '

The bids were issued to William Flinn, who
lin his Freshman year participated in plays;

John D. McConnell, who has both acted and
assisted in productions; Henry McFadyen, who
two years ago played a minor part in “Whappin
Wharf’ and who was in charge of stage work
in the major production of last year; Bruce
Peabody and Reeves Pope, both active in their
Freshman year, and to Alfred Tong, who last
year made such a notable debut as an intrepid
;master-murderer in “The Perfect Alibi.”

| TD

NEW USE FOR COTTON

Ocracoke, N. C.—Add this one to the nu-
_ merous proposed remedies for solution of the
| cotton price situation :

Mrs. Murray Tolson, of Ocracoke, reports”
she caught 23 bluefish and all that she used
for bait was a piece of white cotton cloth,

A firm in Massachusetts which manufactures
pocketbooks, announces that it has more orders
for its pocketbooks than it can fill. Well, we
also have more pocketbooks than we can fill.—
| Albany Evening News.

We've all seen better days, but let us not get
too blue: Consider our old friend, Jonah. He
| got ’way down in the mouth. But he came out
all right.

/from the day you were born till you ride in

a hearse

| Things are never so bad that they couldn't be
worse.

—Selected,

Magazines, Catalogs,
Ete.

Nothing too large

ollege

‘Printing

© 6,600 Square Feet of

P. M. CONWAY, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE

Programs, Newspapers, Bulletins,
Engraved Cards and Invitations.
or small for our plant—Let us serve you.

Handbooks,

Floor Space Devoted Exclusively to Printing

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY

CHARLOTTE, N..C.

+t

