THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 2, 1931

(Continued from page 1)
it had tempered existenee before America was
founded, but he claimed that the real democ-
racy was largely an ideal until America came
into existence and threw “open the door of
opportunity and a square deal,” and made de-
mocracy workable.

JUDGE PARKER SPEAKS |
|
|

Judge Parker ‘said that the weakness of an- |

cient democracies was the tyranny of the ma-
jorities, and maintained that the rights of indi-

viduals suffered less from the arbitrary power |
of the despot than from the injustice of the |

demagogue. He continued by declaring that “we
overcame this weakness when we guaranteed
these rights to the individuals, not merely |
against the power of the executive, but against
the entire power of the state.”

As the second step toward a fundamental |
and workable democracy, said the speaker, |
America combines the strength of the great
state with the liberty of the smaller one, thus
eliminating the weaknesses of both. “Thus we
have combined the principles of local self-gov-
ernment, allowing the peoples of different lo-
calities with widely different customs and tra-
ditions to govern themselves in matter of local
concern according to their ideas, and to exer-
cise over their local institutions that immediate |
supervision which is essential to efficiency of |
government.”
. “With a guaranty of individual rights and/|
the dual system of government, and largely
as a result of them,” he continued, “has cone
the third great constitutional right.” After elab-
orating on this conception, he added that through
the judiciary a government had been built
which is a government. of laws, and ot of
men,

Concluding his discussion of the three things
that he conceived to be the “essence of consti-
tutional government,” Judge Parker — then
launched into a vehement dissertation upon
the dangers which are threatening this demoz-
racy, the dangers, he declared, “which have
caused the land to change from faith, hope, and
courage to one of doubt, fear and pessimism.”
Te ee st the greatest danger is the

s socialistic thought. He
plained that he

ex-
did not mean those who are

College Calendar

Sunday, Dec. 6, 6:00 P. M.—Mr. David”
| Ovens of Charlotte will speak. at

DAVIDSON PICKS FOR ALL-STATE

| “Y” vesper services in Chambers

Auditorium.

7:15 P, M.—The Student Volunteer ||
Group will meet in the “Y” Social | |
Center.

Monday, Dec. 7, 8:00 P. M.—Dr. W.
M. Pierson of Duke University will
speak at Phi Beta Kappa initiation

| in Chambers Auditorium.

Tuesday, Dec. 8, 7:15 P. M.—Literary
societies meet in their respective

halls.

“SERVICE” IS THEME
OF DR. HENDERLITE

(Continued from pgae 1)

but rather with loving kindness. Therefore we |
should prompt ourselves that “whatsoever thy |
hand shall find to do, do it with all thy might.” |

The reason for our being rather sloppy with |
regard to this was ,pointed out to be: that ye
today have very little pioneering to do, which |
leaves us only the commonplace things to ac- |
complish. But Dr. Kirk says that it requires |
the work of a genius to render the common-
place things in a striking manner. Yet, the duty |
of the contemporary Christian is to make the |
common thing uncommon. This idea was amply
borne out by an old Canadian repair man who,
on repairing the broken. head of a cane, was
being complimented by the owner. The work-
man exclaimed, “Sir, I try to make every bit
of work that goes out of this shop leave a
highest impression of my hearty goodwill to- |
ward mankind.”

In closing, the speaker cited the incident of
the Southerner carrying water to a group of
wounded Yankee soldiers during the battle of
Fredericksburg. The Southerner went at the
risk of his life under fire, and tradition has it
that both sides stopped firing while he went
out. Dr. Hendérlite expressed his doubt as to
that fact, but he said that he was satisfied that

Don King

Buddy Gardner

Doc Mathis

Don King closed a brilliant season for
Davidson, and wins halfback position on
Davidsonian All-State.

Buddy Gardner, playing his second year
at center for the Wildcats, easily gains All-
State position.

Doc Mathis, tower of defense and offense,
gains one of the guard positions on the
Davidsonian’s pick.

: ; the Choirs of Heaven must have stopped while | B@ —24
paretied 8 So EULLS ts and bolsheviks, but one of the Lord's servants ‘carried a cup of sh =
wiase who believe in government ownership | cold water in His name.”
and operation of industry, or who would have
it operated without regard to the rights of : m3 ’
owners and would strike down any constitutional DR. PIERSON TO SPEAK Dining Room on If You Can t
guaranty standing in the way of. their Mee Fifth Floor Co I J t
He said that socialism, contrary to the belief (Continued from page 1) T R d me in—vus
of many, was not freedom, but was tyranny-—| Tn addition to these three eminent alumni | ce eae ig Ph 3-4141
tyranny by the state which cramps and starves afte Rietacs sas HleSu OMT dA Gated atte same | . Fountain in Basement ade
ii oe of the individual just as effectively is evening. These are FE, C. Dwelle, Jr., Char- |
oes tyranny by a monarch or ari oligarch. lotte, N. C.;- Roger P. Enloe, Buchannan, Ga. ; |
ee te of socialistic thought coupled|Thomas W. McLean, Charlotte, N. C.; Sam. | SHIRTS WHERE UP-to-the-MINUTE COLLEGIANS SUEDE COATS
: re unscrupulous use of power of organ-|uel S, Wiley, Salisbury, N. C.; John D. Mc- | A 8 45
ete cess an even greater danger, | Connell, Davidson, N. C.; J. T. Welch, Jr.,| $1.65 LIKE TO CHOOSE THEIR CLOTHES $ i
€ beheved. “No one, nor one class of men,”| Mount Holly, N. C.; Louis N. Hand, East | , A
he declared, “have the right to attempt to co- Spencer Ne Gr Edward S., Bettis, Morris- | Shirtcraft and Ide Shirts are Glover and MacGregors Suede
erce the government. The government should | town, Tenn., and Charles W. Harrison, David- | the: shirts that your can buy to Coats in both sweater and coat
represent the whole people, and should he sri (lerer, IN, (C stand the wear that laundries give style. Button or zipper fastenings
ministered under the constitution for the ben- rt . velve men will t qyatelanitaredll them. White and colors. Collars Aer wish. Sizes 36 to 44 in
efits of the whole ploBIE thee tk FD nese twelve men wi e privately initiates Attaled: or chit brown. This is ideal for campus

As a third dan tod t a jan a Tew.’ | at exercises one hour preceding the public func- | wear.
CRE aw jai: © Cemocracy, Judge Park-|tion which will be held aty& o'clock Monday | MONROE SUITS
pure a Bek as of local self-govern- night in Chambers Auditorium. At the conclu- | Up UNDERWEAR
a ae an ae the inability of committees sion of the program, local and visiting mem- | $22.50 ) 1a SR 1 Sh f

Ir crime, necessitating the strong bers of Phi Beta Kappa will be entertained ‘at | : Vy \ 4 ring f Cooper’s Shirts and orts oO

oui of the federal government to eradicate it.|q banquet, - In gray, tan, or brown, in Veo fl | beoadeiete and rayon. They have
Local sovernment has become inefficient, boss- homespuns and worsteds . y Foie quality-built comfort that you'll
ridden, and In many instances DOnNaly con these are the ee Monroe Na appreciate. Also Cooper’s Win-
rupt,” he said, and he warned his hearers that MR. DAVID OVENS TO Suits. In sizes 35 to 42. Be pure ISS ter Weight Union Suits at $1.45
when citizens allow their local government to LEAD “Y” VESPERS and ry One On the next time vey 2h: and u
be weakened or Prostituted, they are aiding Sa | Bre ntOwn: Other Men’s Suits ¥ P.
the forces which are threatening the national (Continued from page 1) priced trom $11.96 to $50.00. SWEATERS
a itself. : ege, because unaided he has risen so high in| SOCKS $2 95 t $3 95

still more serious danger,” said the speak-|the business world. | f ° o 3

ee was 2 be ee in the attacks which are Last year Mr. Ovens spoke at vespers, taking | 35c and $1.00 You can find the Sweater here
ing made upon t judiciz ste: : shears “ : ;. Pen) , | ‘ ; ;
entry ee: Bae sy pit of thelas his subject, Seconders of the Motion. He Interwoven Socks in both plain that you've Been looking for,
offered to destroy the Feria i tat these treated the topic from the business’ man's AR and fancy patterns. Silk and silk ° Something just a little different.
Goes Vung is Aid yy fave come} bringing out some very practical points. ‘| and wool combination. You can’t Bradley Sweaters in slip-over and
oe ‘ae of the court to] urged Davidson men to go out into the world, | have too many... but buy good oat styles and both We andres’
the acts o Congress or those of the| not merely trying to get along, but using all | ones when’ you buy necks
state pet eae papain efforts to de-|the strength in them to do their best. Thus, | : : :
Prive the lower federal courts of jurisdiction from last year’s experi y be assured |
C ‘ ; J perience, we may be assured |
ce strip the judges of their power |that Mr. Ovens’ message will be extremely | SHOES—$4.95
© guide the course of trials,” yorth-while. Come! You'll never regret hav- |
In closing his address, Judge Parker firmly ne oat 2 Walk straight into this bargain! Brown-built Tread-
maintained that upon the preservation of the] The last Sunday before Christmas holidays straight Shoes for men. This national brand that fits
American Constitution “stands the future of] begin, the vesper service will consist almost | the heel and supports the arch so perfectly. In black

: : g =
mankind, not only of America, but of the entire entirely of music. Watch for further announce- | and brown.
world. ments concerning it!

| TIES—95c
Lle e Magazines, Catalogs, Programs, Newspapers, Bulletins, Handbooks, Silk Ties and silk and wool combinations . . . resil-
Ste. E ved Cards itations. : : sae
& ‘ Nothing too Nesta area) jek eA EAS oF aio serve you. iant lined to keep it in shape. All hand-made and a ‘ 7
Printing P. M. CONWAY, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE : good selection of colors. 5
6,600 Square Feet of Floor Space Devoted Exclusively to Printing j .
3 DAVIDSON HEADQUARTERS AT EFIRD’S
Make your headquarters at Efird’s when you come to Charlotte. There are desks and phones on the
mezzanine for your convenience . . . meet your friends here ... we are always glad to see you.
|
i b aaa 9
| Men’s Dept. Men’s Dept.
| Street Floor - Street Floor
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY CHARLOTTE, N. C. | A
LJ
: pi

