N

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 26, 1931

The Dabvidsontan

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
it thee Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p..m., Monday.

j: WILSON McCUTCHAN. Editor-in-Chief
. A. CANNON Busi Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
E. C. DWELLE, JR. Managing Editor
W. S. LEA Managing Editor
D. G. MARTIN. Managing Editor
W. H. MATTHEWS. Sports Editor
A. H. WHITEHEAD News Editor
Vv. M. BELL Feature Editor
NORMAN RAIES Feature Editor
AVORIAIAGRSONGitcssccccsccnbo cs leaueccccsease Review Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN. x A iate Editor
"eB LACK ---.-Associate Editor

. C. RAGIN A iate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
P. M. CONWAY................ ssistant Business Manager
out BARE Revevsccecscocsssessc Assistant Business Manager
J. B. STEVENS. o-oo. Assistant Business Manager
A. G. MONTGOMERY iption Manager
P. F. BRO’ Li
R. W. FALLS. ----------------Solicitor
A. M. MANSON és licitor
A. L. MEBANE .... licit
W. R. MORRO icitor
REPORTERS’ CLUB
Ss. S. Pa dkddudébsnecelesesdacudcuaussssascuususs. President
DG. STEPHENSON 0.328 nnn cn cnncncgsancwen Vice-President
AS HEAWHITEHEAD : ccscscccccccscucuone Secretary-Treasurer
R. H. ALDERMAN J. M. BROW.
J. G. BERRY G.. E. BAILEY
A. R. BIRD . E, BOYD
N. B. DICKS . G. DUNKLIN
E. O. GUERRANT . T. HA
. EL E R. L. McCALLIE
. C. MATTHEWS Cc. F. MYERS
. F. MULLISS H. F. NICHOLS
G. P. PARDINGTON S. P. PRESTON
C. W. F. SPENCER B. B. SUGG
B. B. TAYLOR W. B. WARD
‘J. R. SMITH D. D. McBRYDE

|

FEBRUARY 26, 1931

Slang, like profanity, is the resource of those
whose vocabulary is limited.
William Lyon Phelps.

CONTEST : °

Sponsored by Delta Pi Kappa, honorary journal-
istic fraternity, and handled through the editorial
department of THE DAVIDSONIAN, a contest
in editorial writing is announced. The following
rules and regulations control the contest. A suit-
able prize for the best editorial will be given to
the writer of the winning article.

RULES
1, Contest is open to any Sophomore and Fresh-
man, and to all J s and S s not connected
with the editorial staffs of any of the three pub-
lications.

2. Contest opens Thursday, February 26, and
closes at 8:00 p. m. Saturday night, March 14.
3. Editorials can be of any length.

4. They must be typewrit

5. Writer’s name will be attached to an outside
sheet clipped to the editorial.

6. Any subject may be treated, but editorials
must contain no direct personal criticisms or un-
becoming language.

7. The Davidsonian reserves the right to publish
any or all editorials submitted.

8. Editorials will be left in room 202 East or
handed personally to the editor of THE DAVID,
SONIAN. :

EXPRESSION

Elsewhere on this page may be found details
concerning a contest sponsored by Delta Pi
Kappa for the best editorial of those submit-
ted by the students of the College. Here is a
rare opportunity for those of us who are inter-
ested in giving voice to some long-silent opinion.

Is there among us a man who has not long
wished for a chance to express himself on some
question of general interest? We believe that
there are many such in our very midst. If there
are not a goodly number, we are indeed in a
deplorable condition.

He who is able to formulate a well-grounded
and rational attitude, regardless of what the
nature of it may be, is surely a man worthy
of some respect. How many of us there are who
act rashly before we think, and then we, when
confronted with a request to explain ourselves,
begin a desperate search for some point by
which we can rationalize the performance.

Yes, he who knows what emotivates his ac-
tion is fortunate. Yet how much more fortu-

those talents as best they could. .
E. C..Dwelle, Jr.

IN APPRECIATION

Now that the Senior week-end and house
party are over, many curious hearts have been
satisfied. Despite the fact that passing classes
have been universal in their pronouncement of
an excellent entertainment, there was some
query in the minds of anticipants as to the exact
nature of the program.

In behalf of the Senior class this writer
wants to express his thanks and appreciation
for one of the most successful series of events
he has ever seen at the College. It is known as
a fact that many old wedding gowns and heir-
looms were resurrected from attics and trunks
for the occasion. The faculty’s interest was
shown by a practically unanimous attendance
on the part of its members; the majority of
them were in Colonial costume.

Also significant of the thought and prepara-
tion contributed was the complete ease with
which every detail occurred in its chronological
order. Histrionic art was evident in the skit
and figure presented in the auditorium. It ap-
pears:to us that the psychological attitude of
the student was correctly analyzed in the prep-
aration of the program.

We believe that there. is one thought of re-
gret brought forth during the last week-end.
It is the realization of many that for more than
three years they have missed and not completely
understood a certain side of the faculty mem-
bers which is not exhibited in the daily routine
of classes. This is decidedly the fault of the
students themselves. Every student knows that
he is not the same person in a class room that
he is outside of it; he couldn’t be. This same
principle applies to the faculty.

It is certain that this condition must exist,
yet many Seniors are sorry that they were as
long as they have been in realizing it. It is
sufficient to say that the date of February 21,
1931, will remain one of the salient points of
a four years’ career at Davidson.

Man forgets too much, more than he should.
Still, it is a blessing, perhaps, that he can for-
get some things. Nevertheless it is a proved
statement that one remembers pleasant experi-
ences much longer than the unpleasant ones.
Thanks to the faculty the Senior house party
was a pleasant event all the way through, and
it will remain in the hearts of the class of ’31.

A DISTINCT LOSS

Many will be surprised at the recent an-
nouncement that the Department of Music and
Fine Arts will be removed from the scholastic
curriculum of the College. There has been much
hope in recent months that the student body
was showing rapid improvement in its appre-
ciation of good, and so-called classical, music.

It is true that there would be, in all probabil-
ity, only a few men who would desire to major
in this department. At the same time there are
men who have a love for the classics as well
as a deep interest in them. For these, Fine Arts
proves a desirable and profitable minor subject.

While here, Professor Cullum has had two
activities which appealed to the student body

‘as a whole, the Glee Club and the College Band.

There is no doubt but that the band has shown
decided improvement in the last three and a
half years. The Glee Club, has adopted a type
of program which appeals to every person who
may be in the audience. Not least among these
has been a clever and well-developed number
of novelties. The church choir has also benefited
by Professor Cullum’s direction.

We doubt if the majority of men have fully
appreciated the chapel preludes which have
been rendered daily throughout the year. While
some popular numbers and operettas have been
played, the vast majority of these selections
have been really great compositions by famous
masters. They are numbers which every edu-
cated man should be able to recognize.

It appears to us that one of a college’s main
aims is to better fit a man for life. Anyone
will have a fuller and richer experience if he
appreciates music or is an amateur musician.
If a college can enable a man to share in these
things, it will have done a great deal for him.
It is an excellent talent to stand on one’s own
feet and address an audience; it is also an ac-
comiplishment to listen intelligently and quietly
to a great symphony or opera.

The University of Pennsylvania will not get worth-
while coaches at a faculty salary. A good coach can
earn $12,000 to $15,000 a year.—Coach Lud Wray.

New writers should take the losing side. There are
too many on the winning side, too many influences.
On the unpopular side one can be himself.—Ben
Hecht.

I knew W. J. Bryan intimately and there can_ be
little or no doubt that too much water hastened his
death. I often sat beside him at a banquet. A silver
pitcher holding a gallon of water would be placed be-
fore him. He would not only drink the contents of
this pitcher, but have it refilled and drink the second
one also.—Carter H. Harrison.

I live on hope, and that, I think, do all who come
into this world.—Robert Bridges.

What Do You Know
About?

1. Congress Conquers?
2. Again, Ford vs. Chevrolet—
3. Unlikeable Likeness—

Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown, and

likewise that which lives in the White House of

the United States. President Hoover is having all
kinds of trouble right now with Congress about
the proposed Soldiers’ bonus measure. The bill as
passed last week by overwhelming majorities in
both House and Senate calls for an increase of
the loan value of the bonus notes from one-fourth
to one-half of their face value. This bill was
rushed through both houses, other measures being
side-tracked to aid in speeding it through.

And the thing that makes it so obnoxious to the
chief executive is the fact that after repeated
‘threats of a certain veto for the measure and state-
ments from Andrew Mellon, Secretary of the
treasury, that there wasn’t money enough in the
coffers of the United States to care for the bill
Congress went right on and did it. Hoover will
likely hold it as long as possible, then send it back
“with a veto on it, and the House and Senate will
speed it through over his objections.

Hoover, Mellon, and many of the biggest finan-
ciers of the nation are out and out opposed to the
bill on the grounds that it will not help in the
least to do what it is planned to do—aid the ex-
soldiers and bring the nation out of the depression
—but*that on the other hand it will only lengthen
the period before recovery.

However, the law-makers had one eye on com-
ing elections and’ one ear open to the call of the
American Legion and have sent the measure on
its way. If a vote could have been held up on it
until last Saturday, it would have been possible to
kill the measure by a pocket-veto, for this session,
at least. Hence the haste of Congress in getting
through before then.

“You are too keyed up to enjoy it when you are
going 200 miles an hour.”—Captain Malcolm Camp-
bell.

And another fight waging today that ha scon-
tinued for a long, long time is that between Ford
and Chevrolet for the control\of the low-priced
automobile market. Chevrolet has again jumped
into the lead over Ford in monthly ‘sales, for the
first time since the Model A car went into full-
time production. Chevrolet, with its new models
and; low prices, is giving the largest independent
producer in the world a hot chase for first honors
and for the present has the lead.

But for how long is another question. Rumors
are flying thick and fast about something new in
the Ford line, and about further deep slashes in
the prices of Fords. This would give Ford a much
stronger position in the field than he even now
holds. More style in his cars, as evidenced by the
new Victoria model, also seems to be another fac-
tor in Ford’s fight.

Chevrolet, with undoubtedly the better looking
bodies and more desirable six-cylinder power
plants is handicapped only by their slightly higher
prices, and they come not so very much above that
of the Ford. Lots of fun, anyway, for the buyer
to look on and take advantages of price cuts.

“There is nobody like Garbo.”—Marlene Deitrich.

A recent move by the Post Office Department
of the United States to issue a commemorative
issue of stamps for the two hundredth anniversary
of Washington’s birthday, which will be next year,
has fallen through. It seems the post office officials,
in their plans for the commemoratives, had en-
visioned a series showing various scenes and por-
traits of the Father of His Country at. different
ages.

The chief reason they were unwilling to do so
was because the pictures failed to look like Wash-
ington. In fact, it is said, the portraits of him as
a younger man resemble somewhat John J. Ras-
kob. We can’t see a good Republican administra-
tion putting the picture of a man who even re-
sembled a man so high in Democratic circles as
Raskob on the stamps of the nation. No, not even
if the original were even Washington.

Two Rotarians complimenting each other are
like two savages rubbing noses.”—Gilbert K. Ches-

terton.

It is better to wait until people are dead before one
says anything unkind about them.—George Bernard
Shaw.

Nothing in the world is worth considering except
the truth—E. Phillips Oppenheim.

The evils of the world are many, and one of the
greatest is immodesty.—Cardinal Hayes.

When a man uses the word “sometime” he usually
means not in his time.—Senator Blaine of Wisconsin.

The new diplomacy ¢an when it wishes be as ob-
scure, though more vocally obscure, than the old.—
Sir Austin Chamberlain. :

MUSINGS & the
_-;MATADOR_

Gun — VEREEN 4.
fom BELL mia

The sun was shining brightly that day. Little did
I suspect what sorrow and misfortune was to fall
my lot as I tripped gayly down the street. For, I
was off to the fortune teller’s to have my palm read.
I went up to the door of his house and knocked. A
tall man in a black robe let me in. He was a mys-
terious duck of whom there is no whomer, but I
wasn’t scared. He led me into the waiting room, or
wailing room—I have forgotten which. I heard the
fortune teller talking to a woman:

“Madame,” he said, “do you know how to bring
up your child?”

“Certainly,” came the woman’s voice.

“Then you had better go and bring him up because
right this minute he’s at the bottom of the well.”

The woman came out of the room in a hurry with
green wire wheels and dashed out of the door.

It was my turn next. The tall black-robed man led
me into the sanctum.

“Come in, honorable sir,” said the mind-reader.

(I began to think he was a fake right then.)

He was sitting behind a big “erystal ball with a
towel wrapped around his head.

“Can you tell my fortune?” I asked him as I sat
down.

“Fifty cents,” he answered.

“No,” I answered, “it’s sixty cents. You must have
overlooked the dime in my Sunday suit.”

He scowled. .

“I meant that I charge fifty cents,” he muttered
between clenched fists. He got up and pasted the floors
but they would turn up at the corners.

“You,” he began, “are undecided as to your future
work.: You are going to be either a lawyer or a jour-
nalist, as the case may be, and most of the time is.”

T got up and followed him around the. room.

“Sit down!” he exclaimed.

“Ford or Chevrolet?” I queried in a wee small
voice while biting his finger nails.

“IT said ‘sit down,’ not ‘sedan,’” he cried.

He began mumbling to himself. I don’t think he
was mumbling to me, at least.

“Don’t mumble,” I warned. “It’s bad on your diges-
tion. Think of the future, man.”

He went over to the window but said he felt no
pane. He began to mutter again and this time it sound-
ed like he said he was going to buy chairs for the
standing army.

“Are yotivall right?” I asked in dismay a year ago.

“Yes, I am all right. But you are crazy!” he an-
swered with a scream. I did not know the scream
although his face did look vanilla.

My blood began to boil at his words. I threw down
my cigarette.

“I didn’t come here to be insulted,” I said, my
beautiful brown eyes narrowing down to pin points.

“Then what did you come for?”

“I came because I wanted to,” I answered.

“Wanted to what?” he said with one of the smirki-
est smirks I have ever seen.

I, infuriated, snatched the smirk from his pallid
face and thrust it bodily into the pocket without the
hole. (I have it now. It is hanging on the wall be-
tween a grimace and a couple of prize sneers I got
out in the cattle country.)

“You have had some vial work in your day,” he
said, meaning of course that I had been employed in
a drug store.

There is little more to tell; it’s all so sad. But
the best of fiends must part so I shook his withered
hand well before using and he bowed deep into the
night. I noticed as I went out that my palm was a
brilliant red.

But what I can’t understand is why that mind-
reader only charged me half-price.

I like, as applauders, those audiences* in Southern
Europe, where they shout. when they are pleased and
when they are not, hiss and throw potatoes.—Ossip
Gabrilowitsch.

William Robert Crissey, 2nd, 25-year-old Phila-
delphia broker, has resigned from the brokerage house
with which he is connected, in order to devote him-
self to the winning of a wager in which he has promised
to meet in one year President Hoover, Bobby Jones,
John D. Rockefeller and the Prince of Wales. More-
over, he must play golf with Jones and Rockefeller,
and play golf or motor with Wales. If any of the
group fall ill or are otherwise removed from normal
life, they are excluded automatically from the terms
of the wager. we

The government of Bolivia has taken money from
the budget of its war department this year and added
it to the budget for education.

Adolfo de la Huerta, leader of two Mexican revo-
lutions, and once provisional president of the repub-
lic, but now a music teacher, has produced a girl
capable of singing “C” three octaves higher than the’
middle “C,” the highest note ever sung by the human
voice. The girl is Leona Rosas.

An experiment in “continued education” is to be
tried out among the alumnae of Barnard College.
