THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 21, 1930

Fifty-Six Alumni Have Definitely
Accepted Membership on Council

This Was Report Received at David-
son on May 16th—Others Are
Expected to Accept Before
Commencement

FOUR PAST PRESIDENTS

Senior Class Has Selected Its Ten
Members, Bringing Total to
Seventy

aa toa report last Saturday from
the Ne ork office of H. Smith Richard-
son, 06, president of the Davidson Alumni
Association, 56 alumni had definitely accept-
ed membership on the new Alumni Council,
which will meet at Davidson for two ses-
sions on Monday, June 1, and remain over
through the alumni luncheon and meeting
of the Alumni Association on Tuesday.

The list includes alumni from many dif-
ferent classes and from a widely scattered
area, for the acceptances have come from
Davidson alumni in North Carolina, South
Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Tennessee, Vir-
ginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, New York,
and Minnesota. Two-thirds of the body will
come from outside this state.

Added to the 56 acceptances are the names
of four past presidents of thé: Alumni Asso-
ciation, who are ex-officio members of the
Council, and ten members from the 1931
graduating class, which brings the total
membership to 70. Other acceptances are ex-
pected before the first meeting at Davidson
on Monday of commencement, and it is
thought that the number will reach 80 or
more.

Alumni who havye-accepted include :

W. W. Flowe, 795, Concord; Dr. G. M.
Maxwell, 96, Roanoke, Va.; Dr. R. H.
Lafferty, 99, Charlotte; W. S. Royster, ’99,
Norfolk, Va.; S. A. Robinson, ’99, Gastonia ;
R. H. Dye, 1900, Fayetteville; Jos. B. John-
ston, ’01, Barium Springs; Dr. Donald W.
Richardson, '02, Richmond, Va.; Dr. W.
M. Dunn, ’03, Atlanta, Ga.; Henry Alan
Johnston, 03, New York; J. A. Cannon, ’04,
Concord; Dr. Geo. McAliley, '04, Atlanta,
Ga.; Dr. W. T. Thompson, ’05, Richmond,
Va.; Dr. Fred Rankin, 05, Rochester, Minn. ;
Dr. Ben R. Lacy, ’06, Richmond, Va.; Dr.
B. R. Smith, '06, Asheville; Scott Candler,
107, Atlanta, Ga.; Dr. Everard Wilcox, ’07,
Augusta, Ga.; Dr. Oren Moore, ’08, Char-
lotte; H. A. Query, ’09, Gastonia; Geo. E.
Wilson, ’10, Charlotte; Ruffner Campbell,
10, Asheville; Burney Thomas, ’10, Pitts-
burgh, Pa.; Mayor Geo. W. Coan, Jr., ’11,
Winston-Salem; Dr. C. R. Wilcox, 11,
Rome, Ga.; John J. Barnhardt, ’12, Con-
cord; Dr. G. R. Wilkinson, ’12, Greenville,
S. C.; Dr. E. L. Bishop, 12, Atlanta, Ga.;
Clifton Murphy, 713, New York; Lunsford
Richardson, ’14, Greensboro; J. Edward
Johnston, 14, Baltimore, Md.; J. Caldwell
McDonald, ’15, Charlotte; Dr. Wm. Y.
Sayad, ’17, West Palm Beach, Fla.; H. K.
Aiken, Jr., Greenville, S. C.; Alexander
Sprunt, Jr., 18, Charleston, S. C.; J. J.
Love ’19; Quincy, Fla.; A. L. Wilson, ’20,
Quincy, Fla:

1921-1930

J. Eris Cassell, '21, Concord; Houston
White, ’21, Atlanta, Ga.; D. R. LaFar, ’22,
Gastonia; Rev. E. B. McGukin, ’22, Norfolk,
Va.; Dr. J. H. Davis, Jr., '23, Clinton, S. C.;
W. J. Cooper, ’23, Kingstree, S. C.; Dr.
W. Z. Bradford, ’24, Charlotte; J. I. Smith,
24, Greenville, S. C.; T. F. Staley, Jr., ’25,
New York; R. B. Parker, ’26, Rome, Ga.;
R. W. Graves ’26, Durham; L. D. Wharton,
Jr., 27, New York; Joe H. McConnell, ’27,
University, Va.; F. C. Withers, Jr., ’28, Co-
lumbia, S. C.; H. M. Arrowood, ’28, Shelby ;
M. T. Gilmour, ’29, Chapel Hill; R. E. Kell,
29, Franklin, Tenn.; W. B. McGavock, ’30,
Spring Hill, Tenn.; Zeb V. Long, Jr., '30,
Lynchburg, Va.

Past Presdents

Dr. J. C. Rowan, ’04, Concord; Dr. J. P.
Matheson, 99, Charlotte; Dr. Hamilton W.
McKay, ’06, Charlotte; H. Smith Richard-
son, 06, New York.

| Alumni Marriages

Whitener-Clary

Henry Erson Whitener, of Huntersville,
member of the class of 1914, and Miss Lois
Clary, of China Grove, were married at the
Presbyterian Church in China Grove on
May 9. After attending Davidson, Mr.
Whitener was in the farming business, but
for the past three years has been teaching
school at Huntersville. Mrs. Whitener was
educated at N. C. C. W., and has taught
in the schools @f Huntersville for the past
two years.

Brown-Johnston

Robert E. L. Brown, of the 1922 class,
and Miss Lucille Johnston, both of Char-
lotte, were married at the home of hte bride’s
parents on May 15. After attending David-
son, Mr. Brown went to the University of
North Carolina, receiving his degree in law.
He is now connected with the Southern Pub-
lic Utilities Company, of Charlotté> Mrs.
Brown attended Queens College and was
later graduated in music at Mary Baldwin
Seminary, Staunton, Va. After a wedding
trip they will reside on Avondale Avenue,
Charlotte.

Appleby-Allen

Rev. James Mourning Appleby, of Flor-
ence, Ala., and Miss Elizabeth Seagle Al-
len, of Raleigh, were married in the First
Presbyterian Church at Raleigh on May 15.
Mr, Appleby graduated from Davidson in
1926, was Y. M. C. A. secretary here for
two years, and last week, graduated from
Union Theological Seminary. Mrs. Appleby
graduated from Peace Institute and later
from Assembly’s Training School in Rich-
mond. Mr. Appleby will be assistant pastor
of the Second Presbyterian Church, Peters-
burg, Va., this summer, and in the fall he
and his bride will go to Scotland for a year,
where Mr. Appleby will study at Edinburgh,
having been awarded the Salem Fellowship
at Union Seminary.

Ohsiek-Goodier

“Mr. Conrad A. Goodier announces the
marriage of his daughter, Grace, to Carl
Alfred Ohsiek, on Saturday, May 2, Brook-
lyn, N. Y.” Mr. Ohsiek graduated from
Davidson in 1928, and last June completed
his degree in the Business School of Co-
lumbia University. Since then he has been
working with the American Telephone Com-
pany, in New York. Mr. and Mrs. Ohsiek
are at home, 450 95th St., Brooklyn, N. Y.

TWO MARRIAGES

(Continued from page !)

in Albany,-and since her graduation has been
associated with the Albany Exchange’ Bank.

Mrs. Lee Cain, of St; Matthews, S. Cc,
announces the engagement of her daughter,
Adela Clark, to William Lee Younger, of
Davidson. The wedding is to be solemnized
some time during the early part of this
summer.

Miss Cain is a graduate of Winthrop Col-
lege, Rock Hill, S. C., and is well known
in social circles. Coach “Monk” Younger
was a student at V. P. I., and then at Da-
vidson. He has been head coach at the Iat-
ter institution and is now athletic director
at Davidson College.

Senior Class Elections

C. H. Goodykoontz, Bluefield, W. Va.;
Dean Rusk, Atlanta, Ga.; W. B.' Goodson,
Lincolnton; D. R. LaFar, Gastonia; J. W.
McCutchan, Warm Springs, Va.; J. A.
Jones, Laurinburg; A. W. McLean, Lum-
berton; A. R. Bird, Jr., Washington, D. C.;
Walter W. Fraley, Barium Springs; C. A.
Sisson, Winona, Miss. To serve temporarily
until the return of Rusk and McCutchan
from abroad, A. B. McClure, Rabon Gap,
Ga., and H. S. Covington, Red Springs.

Made President |

$. CLAY WKAIAMS

S. Clay Williams, ’05, Will

Head Tobacco Business

Was Recently Chosen President of
R. J. Reynolds—Former Vice-
President and General Council

Widespread interest was shown by many
Davidson College alumni two weeks ago
when it was announced that S. Clay Wil-
liams, 1905 graduate of Davidson, had been

‘made president of the R. J. Reynolds To-

bacco Company, one of the largest tobacco
manufacturing concerns in America. Mr.

Williams had been vice-president before his:

recent election to the presidency.

This alumnus obtained his law degree
from the University of Virginia after his
graduation from Davidson, and for ten years
was engaged in the practice of law in Greens-
boro. In 1917 he became associated with the
Reynolds concern in the law department,
and four years later was made general coun-
sel for the firm. In 1924 he was elected a
director and vice-president of the company.
He continues as a director.

The Winston-Salem Journal, in comment-
ing editorially upon Mr. Williams’ choice
as president, said in part: “Mr. Williams
has been associated with the company for
14 years and is thoroughly familiar with
every phase of the business. He is still a
young man and should give many valuable
years to the company in this position‘of lead-
ership to which he has been elevated.”

Mr. Williams is a member of the David-
son board of trustees, is on the executive
committee of that body, and is a member
of the Alumni Council.

PROGRAM FOR GRADUATION

(Continued from page 1)

10:30 a. m.—Award of college medals.
Presentation of-class gift.
Response.
Addresses, by the valedictorian
and salutatorian.
Conferring of honorary degrees.
Graduation exercises.

Some time*Monday, June 1, the Seniors
and the faculty are scheduled to play the
final game of their three-game baseball se-
ries, and Monday morning will be the time
assigned for the alumni registration period.
East Dormitory has been selected as alumni
hotel, and the alumni are to sign for rooms
in this dormitory during their stay here.

The class officers have been elected for
the exercises. They are: J. A. Jones, class
orator; J. B. Black, class poet; Paul Alder-
man, class historian; Albert McClure, vale-
dictorian, and Charles Kraemer, class salu-
tatorian. Lawrence Smith is to be Senior
Marshall.

FRESHMEN TO LEAD

(Continued from page 1)
was here, singing in the Glee Club and other
musical organizations. He went to Union
Theological Seminary to complete his work
after his graduation from Davidson.
Dr. Fowle will deliver the annual com-
mencement sermon before the “Y” and this

‘| will conclude the services for the year.

Alumni To Return Commencement
From Widely Scattered Territory

| Engagements

—

Cain- Younger

“Mrs. Lee Cain, of St. Matthews, S. C.,
announces the engagement of her daughter,
Adela Clark, to William Lee Younger, of
Davidson, the marriage to be solemnized
during the early summer.” Coach Younger
is in the 1919 class at Davidson, attending
V. P.T. after leaving here. He was assist-
ant coach at V. P. I. before he came to
Davidson in 1923 as head mentor. Miss Cain
is a graduate of Winthrop, and has been
teaching in Charlotte for. the past several
years.

Adcock-Davis

“Dr. and Mrs. J. Dean Adcock, of Or-
lando, Fla., announce the engagement of
their daughter, Emma Caroline, to Dr. John
Henry Davis, Jr., of Clinton, S. C.,’ the
marriage to take place in early June.” Dr.
Davis obtained his A.B. and M.A. degrees
from Davidson in 1924, and is a Ph.D. grad-
uate of the University of Chicago. He is a
former member of the Davidson faculty, and
now heads the biology department at Pres-
byterian College. Miss Adcock is a graduate
of Coker College.

James-Milton

“Mrs. Mable Hilsman James, of Albany,
Ga., announces the engagement of her daugh-
ter, Rosa Jackson, to William Ernest Mil-
ton, of Davidson, the marriage to be sol-
emnizde late in June.”’ Since his graduation
from Davidson in 1926, Mr. Milton has been
alumni secretary and publicity director of
the college. Miss James completed her edu-
cation at Bessie Tift College and for the
past three years has been in the employ of
the Albany Exchange and National Bank.

Jones-Nisbet

“Mrs. Charles DePass Jones, of Concord,
announces the engagement of her daughter,
Rebecca, to Walter Olin Nisbet, Jr., of
Charlotte, the marriage to take place in early
fall.” Mr. Nisbet graduated from Davidson
in 1928, and in 1930 graduated from the
Business School at Harvard. He is in the

employ of R. S. Dickson & Company,
brokers, of Charlotte.
Cromartie-Hill

“Mr. and Mrs. David Lewis Cromartie,
of Garland, announce the engagement of
their daughter, Victoria Lewis, to William

CHANGES IN FACULTY

(Continued from page 1)
and must be approved by the Board of
Trustees.

A committee has been appointed whose de-
sire it is to present to the Board of Trustees
a centennial program for the adequate equip-
ment of the college. The plan, which would
commemorate the one hundredth anniver-
sary of the college and would be completed
during the term of 1937, would include the
building of a new infirmary, a new library,
a new church, a new dormitory, a social and
religious center, a field house, and the re-
construction of Rumple.

Official Invitation Leaves Davidson
This Week, But Many Advance
Notices Have Already Been
Received

TWELVE REUNIONS
Four Special Classes and Two
Specified Groups Will
Reunite This Year

Davidson College alumni residing in Proy-
idence, R. I., New York, Pittsburgh, Roches-
ter, Minn., San Antonio, Texas, and many
other cities closer by have already notified
Ernest Milton, alumni secretary, that they
are returning to the 95th commencement of
the institution. The official invitation and
announcement of the program’ between May
31-June 3 is being mailed to the alumni
this week, but these notices have already
come from alumni who are returning for re-
unions of their classes or for the Alumni
Council meeting on June 1.

Twelve different classes will reunite at

bers are returning for their 55th year rg
union; 1881, for its half-century; 1906, for
its quarter-of-a-century celebration, and
1930, for its first: reuniting. Two contem-
porary groups of classes will be here, those
in 1891, 1892, 1893, and 1894, and 1910, 1911,
1912, and 1913.

For the past two months the class presi-
dents have been writing letters to their class-
mates, and individuals have sent numerous
letters from the office of the alumni secre-
tary at Davidson. The final set of: letters
were mailed out Monday.

According to reports’ from the class of
1876, three of the five living members of
this group are expected to be at Davidson
for the reunion. In 1926, there were seven
living members, and three of them were here
at that time, and occupied a prominent place
at all of the events of the commencement
exercises.

The new Alumni Council, which is the
outgrowth of a reorganization of the Alumni
Association, will bring together a distin-
guished group of Davidson alumni. This will
approximate 70 members. Acceptances have
been received from alumni in ten different
states. This council will meet in session
twice on “Monday of commencement, and
further organization will be perfected. Here-
tofore, the directing body of alumni work
has been made up of only 12 members.

Alumni officials are expecting the great-
est return of alumni who ever have come
back for a,commencement at Davidson, The
attendance has been gradually increasing and
and it is expected to be unusualy good here
May 31-June 3.

Edwin Hill, Jr., of Richmond, Va., the mar-
riage to be solemnized in early fall.” Mr.
Hill graduated from Davidson in 1929, and
is acting as pastor of the Hopewell, Va.,
Presbyterian Church, while taking his theo-
logical training at Union Seminary, Rich-
mond. Miss Cromartie is secretary-treasurer
of the Fayetteville Observer Publishing

STETSON “D” STORE

OFFERS

SPECIAL FOR THIS WEEK ONLY
3-PIECE LINEN AND NUROTEX SUITS

AT
$17.50 and $18.50

LINEN KNICKERS
$2.95 and $4.50

Company.
+3

—a

Davidson. These include 1876, whose mem- |
