N

THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 9, 1931

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
eet Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
anaging Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

D. GRIER MARTIN Editor-in-Chief
P. M. CONWAY Business Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
E. O. GUERRANT. Managing Editor
D. D. McBRYDE M g Editor
R. L. McCALLIE Managing Editor
Cc. F. MYERS --Managing Editor
B. B. SUGG. Athletic Editor
D. G. STEPHENSON Feature Editor
W. W. FRANKLIN Feat itor
H. W._ ERVIN. Review Editor
; E. LAKE Exch itor
. C. DWELLE, JR....-- A iate Editor
W. S. LE Soh A i Editor
W. H. MATTHEWS. ShcA iate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
A. M. MANSON..........---------Assistant Business Manager
A. L, MEBANE... .---Assistant Business Manager
ty W. WHITTED..-.-...-.---------- Assistant Business Manager
. R. MORROW. S ription Manager
Ww. T. Solicitor
t: F, it
ai tor
A. #H. Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB

A. H. WHITEHEAD -- ----President
uy OE EY. NS ore rererr reper Vice-President
, BF. “MULLISS.2............2-.. 2222-5 Secretary-Treasurer
R. H. ALDERMAN F. H. COVINGTON
B. B. TAYLOR L. S. GAMBLE
G. E. BAILEY R. E. LORRAINE
4 E. BOYD E. L. POWELL
. P. PRESTON R. PRATT-THOMAS
W. R. WARD A, F. SCHENCK
0. C LI , W. M. THOMPSON
L. W. CLARDY, ‘ep ad W. T._ THOMPSON
JACK WILLIAM J. A. HUNTER

DECEMBER 9, 1931

PARAGRAPHICS

Congratulations to the Freshmen in their well-
earned victory Saturday. It is the first time the
Freshmen have played the Tar Babies in quite a
while.

pene » Coen oee

From every indication jt seems that the dubious
affair at Durham turned ‘into a mild success, al-
though the crowd was disappointingly small. The
Wildcat representatives report that they thoroughly
enjoyed the game and praised the sportsmanship and
gameness of their teammates from the other two
schools.

——_D

Elsewhere in this edition will be found information
concerning the object of this year’s gift of 1,000 dol-
lars. It is to our advantage to familiarize ourselves
with this, as this is and has been an important part
of the Student Body’s task.

es )
OUR NEW TASK

The Wildcat Spirit does not end with the com-
pletion of the football season nor does it begin
again with the renewal of the basketball season,
but it is ever present and all pervading. Now we
are called on to exercise that spirit more than
almost ever before. We have to do something that
is not spectacular, something that we do not re-
ceive individual credit for doing. We are called
on to give out of our own pockets at a time when
it hurts worse. But it is our task, a challenge that
has been handed down by preceding Student
Bodies who have been faced with the same task
and succeeded.

This year’s contribution goes mainly,.to the
Foreign Mission Board of the Southern Presby-
terian Church for their use in foreign missions.
The people of our Church are woefully ignorant
of the tasks which face our foreign mission move-
ment. This Student Body is probabily like them
in that respect, so the Y. M. C. A. is attempting
to carry on an intensive education program in
order that the students may know to what great

project they are donating their money. From day
to day short talks will be made to give a few
graphic pictures of the work we want to support.
In the hallway of the first floor of Chambers is
a display of articles representing the countries in
which we have mission stations. Below are the
answers to a group of interesting questions found
in a box on the first page:

1. $2.60.
To win for Christ 36,000,000 people in
six countries all around the world.
Brazil, China, Japan, Africa, Korea,
Mexico.
Nine Foreign Missions, 50 Stations,
1,624 Out-stations, 338 Organized Con-
gregations. |
427 men and women from our country,
3,452 native workers.
50,000; 4,748 added last year; 81,115:
Sunday School pupils.
101,475; this does not include those re-
eared = native churches.

es, t yéar they contribut -
528.00. x a et
1,025 schools and enrollment of 41,217.
No. We ‘support industrial school also.
Our Agricultural School at Lavras, Bra-
zil, is the model school for the Brazilian
Government.
23 doctors, 24 nurses; 31 native physi-
cians, 170 nurses and 66 helpers.
22 hospitals, and 15 dispensaries. Last
year 11,115 operations performed; pa-
tients treated, 320,404.
Missionary homes, school buildings,

equipment, libraries; preaching halls,

2.
3.
4.

11.
12,

13.

§

ABOUT OUR HONOR

Davidson’s honor system is far renowned be-
cause it is known to be a working system. Seldom
does there come a time when the honor of any
Davidson man is questioned. And Davidson is
proud of her reputation along this line; it is one
of her most treasured traditions. Davidson men
hold it their highest duty and privilege to uphold
this tradition.

There are many colleges and universities which
have tried unsuccessfully to have the honor sys-
tem. It is therefore a great tribute to Davidson
that she is able to have such a system with little
difficulty.

Yet to have an efficient honor system there
must be honor in small things as well as in larger
matters. A small infraction is in reality as bad
as one of the major breaks, in so far as the pres-
ervation of the system is concerned.

The Davidson Students’ Store has, in the last
eight years, made a total profit of around eight
thousand dollars. It seems that, with all the trade
the students give to their store, the profits should
be more than a thousand dollars a year. The loss
that occurs may be attributed to several different
causes—small margin of profit, high operating ex-
penses due to the salaries paid to the clerks, lack
of continuous operation, and various other causes.

But it is certain that a part of this loss is due
to the failure of some men to pay for things they
obtain from the store. These articles may be small
and it seems at the time to mean nothing to pick
up an extra cracker, another piece of candy, or
get a package of cigarettes, without paying for
them. But in figuring the results we must con-
sider the fact that there are over six hundred men
in the student body, and that if each one did this,
the total would be enormous. Aside from this fact
we must realize that we are not keeping our honor
in small things.

Let’s make the phrase, “You are dealing with
yourself,” really mean something !

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

Gettysburg College

This college, located at Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, where
the historical battle of Gettysburg was fought during the
eGivil War, is going to observe its one hundredth anni-
versary of the founding of the college this year. As
speakers at this celebration the school authorities have
engaged two men who stand very high in the medical
world. These men are Dr. Lewellys Franklin Barker,
professor emeritus of medicine at Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity and visiting physician at the Johns Hopkins Hos-
pital and who is acclaimed to be one of the most out-
standing teachers of internal medicine in the East; and
Dr. Frank Pierpont Graves, who is president of the
University of the State of New York and Commissioner
of Education. He was also awarded the Butler medal
for educational administration in 1927, Dr. Graves is a
very inspirational speaker and teacher.

At this same institution Phi Beta Kappa elected to its
membership recently three seniors.

Auburn

Wiley Post and Harold Gatty, famous round-the-
world flyers, made a visit to the new Auburn-Opelika
airport last Sunday, December 6, and that afternoon they
both spoke at the Opelika Theatre on their great trip
around the unverse. This airport is a very new one, hav-
ing been just completed, so these are the first flyers of
note that have visited this port. The people of Auburn,
are very proud to have these two men and their plane.
“Winnie Mae,” visit their port. This port is going to be
used as an emergency landing field for the new air mail
servtce between Atlanta and New Orleans.

Duke

With a great deal of pride The Chronicle tells us that
Duke has the largest library in the Southeast. In this
library there are over a quarter of a million books on
all subjects that would be interesting to the students.
There*are books in this library whose publication date
from the seventeenth century, one of them dates from
1680, this being the oldest book there. There are also
records of the Protestant Episcopal Church, minutes of
the Southern Baptist Association, and the Southern Bap-
tist Convention, letters that were written between Geor-
gia and South Carolina men during the Revolutionary
War, and a number of notes of General Nathaniel Greene.

chapels; hospitals, / dispensaries and
modern medical equipment; evangelists
need bicycles, motorcycles, motor boats
and Ford cars to cover their territory.
138 years.

William Carey went to India in 1792—
first Protestant missionary.

14,
15.

16.
17. Luebo, Africa.

18. Davidson College and The Golden Castle
College, Nagoya, Japan.

The most spectacular figure in the
Christian world of Japan today. He is
a product of our mission work in Japan.
He is a philosopher, poet, novelist, la-
bor leader, orator, Bible teacher, and
preacher extraordinary. He is called
“The Leader of New Japan.”

The concerted evangelistic movement
of the Christians of Japan. It is led by
Kagawa.

$1,250,000. ¥ ?

19.

20.

21.

“ |, Of Ships & Shoes—
& Sealing Wax—
Of Cabbages & Kings...”

Well, well (deep subject), football is about to
hand over the old gavel to basketball. The young
people are forgetting the word “gridiron,” and begin-
ning to think of the word “court.”

It seems that football is a game where you get razsed
if you don’t run with the ball; and basketball is a game
where you get raszed if you DO run with it. We give
up—what is this anyway, a game?

We've had a pretty hard time picking our all-state
team, so we're gonna try a new idea. VOLUNTEERS!
Kindly send seven ($0.07) cents, (please do not send
stamps) to MIRTHOFANATION, together with 12
reasons why you never could play football, 8 reasons
why you never wanted to, and 3 reasons why you have
been playing football this year. You might also send a.
5,000-word essay on “Why I Avoid Such Harmful Throat
Irritants as Chamels, Hesterfields, Lucky Stripes, and

Spugs.”
Our team so far is as follows:
BROGKAN fi scsccsseonsccsjoscceccces Tackle
AWIEIR Gates boc veccuscncbeoeccus Off Center
Goot Clath 222552262. 525-2sscc5-5 Third Base
Uy GG eee Mudguard
IPentinete steLcesc sos! checwccas Water Boy
EROCH eet leoteeesdote  seueeeeos Drawback

Only one game has been scheduled as this paper
goes to press. The team will play HAVOC next
Thirstday, Octomber the 35th, on the Langley Field,
unless some, or all, of the team kick off before then.

There are only two wooden Indians remaining in front
of cigar stores in America.

The others, we suppose, all went in search of a good
five cent cigar. (Or maybe they are trying to find five
cents. ) +

HE LEARNED ABOUT WOMEN
“I could not
Love thee, dear,
o much—
Loved I not
Henry Moore.”

TIMELY LITTLE HINTS FOR SUCCESS
Set your watch up a quarter of an hour. For:
“T owe my success in life,” says Admiral Nelson, “to

having alwayts been a quarter of an hour before my time.”

WE SUGGEST AS SLOGANS:
(For a “Help-Wanter” section): —“Read 'em and
sweep.”
(For an eye-wash concern):
ally in the eye of the public.”
(For a clothing concern): “For attired business
man.”
(For a bank): “If you have money, we will have it;
If you want money, we won't have it.”
(Send in your suggested slogans to this column. A
handsome reward given to the best sent in each week.

“A product continu-

AUnless the judges are unable to decide which is the best

Which will probably be the case.)

RUMPLE REPARTEE:
He—He said I was crazy.
Hee—Yeah?
Heee—So I called Himalaya.

CONTEMPORARY THOUGHT
“After all, girls will be girls, and boys will be “boyster-

ous.
—Bob Torrence.

A-SAP’S FABLE FOR TODAY: “A fool and his

money are soon party-ed.”

LOOKING OVER THE MORNING MAIL:
POT 8 O CLUB
2 hills past tomato
Dear Sweet Potato: :
Do you carrot all for me? My heart beets for you.
Please don’t turnip your nose, you big cabbage. If you
do carrot all for me, lettuce elope. If you cantaloupe,
lettuce marry.
Your little
Wild Jerry,
Came the reply:
“Jerrymiah mother doesn’t approve of you. But I'll
Micah approve of you yet. Pop corn has consented, but
Mamma Lade sticks fast. :

Rhoda. Dendron.

BOOK-OF-THE-MONTH SUGGESTION:
John Knox on Death’s Door. By Midnight.

Said the street car conductor to the Davidson student:
“Well, come on. Are you Gunga Din the car or not?”

SPOON RIVER SPECIALS
Epitaph on a fireman’s grave:
“OUR ESTEAMED FRIEND”

DES ENTREFILETS

Those who think that the expression, “Oh, yeah,”
is something very modern will be surprised to learn
that it is not in the least up to date and is in fact
1,500 years old. According:to Max J.Herzberg, Super-
intendent of English in the Newark Public Schools,
Beowulf, about 500 or 600 years after Christ, would
have said “yeah.” He adds that our “yeah” is the
“yea” of the Bible. Anglo-Saxon authorities say Ja
the letters y-e-a would have been pronounced “yeah

in that language.

A short time ago the spectators in the Traffic Court
of New York were amused when the case of Hamm
against Rolls was called. A certain Albert Rolls had
received a ticket for illegal parking from Patrolman
Henry P. Hamm. Rolls was fined three dollars.

Supreme Court Justice William F. Bleakley of .New
York is very much against “publicized football games”
at Sing Sing. He said recently, “I am in favor of health-
- ful exercises within the prison walls but when you
advertise convicts and make heroes out of them the
effect is generally bad.” The justice added that it was
“particularly incongruous’ that a game between the con-
victs and a police department should be widely adver-

tised.

Vienna was astonished recently upon learning that
the document which is the basis of the Austrian Re-
public’s liberation from the rule of the Hapsburgs
no longer exists. This document was a letter of abdi-
cation signed by the Emperor Karl in 1918. It was
lost with thousands of other documents when the
Vienna Palace of Justice was burned by a mob on
July 15, 1927. It is ironical that it should have been
destroyed by the extreme Left revolutionary mob
which, incensed over the acquittal of two Heimwehr
members who had killed two people taking part in
a Socialist pr , burned the Palace of Justice
and thus destroyed the basic charter of the Austrian

Republic. ~

The British Government recently purchased from the
Plane Speaker Corporation a loud speaker with which
it intends to spread good-will over the empire. The ap-
paratus consists of powerful amplification tubes and: a
loud speaker which magnify the voice a million times.
It is possible with the use of this device to make the
voice heard from the altitude of 3,000 to 4,000 feet. It
is the intention of the Air Ministry to use this method
to spread good-will in India and other colonial posses-
sions.

The number of individuals having incomes for tax-
ation of over one million dollars dropped from 513
in 1929 to 149 in 1930. There were 6,152 persons in
1930 having an income of more than one hundred
thousand dollars as compared with 14,701 in the pre-
ceding year. This just goes to show that the depres-
sion isn’t over yet, at least not in the United States,
and a much larger drop in incomes is expected for
the year of 1931.

Only 141 days after it was inaugurated the Consti-
tutional Cortes of Republican Spain completed voting on
the Constitution, a document designed to transform a
feudal monarchy into a modern state. From its first ar-
ticle declaring “Spain is a republic of the workers of all
classes,’ to its last section it is designed to erect the
most modern of all states.

In this constitution the Catholic Church is declared to
no longerrbe the state religion of Spain and that it is a
“secular” ‘state.

The Finnish Government has asked the Diet to au-
thorize/a referendum to détermine_whether: they shall
continue prohibition, repeal the laws outright, or adopt
a policy of modification, It seems that Finland is hav-
ing the same experience with prohibition as the United
States. It is having a destructive influence upon the laws
of the country. There has been an increase in drunken-
ness and in crimes of violence. A special criminal pro-
fession has grown up because of the situation created by

prohibition and the judicial system of the nation has
been endangered.

According to Professor Carl G. Gaum of Rutgers
University the sure index of a man’s intelligence is
laughter.

“Tell me what you laugh at and I'll tell you your
mental age,” he said. “Laughter is an indication of
intelligence, and of all degrees of laughter, the laugh-
ter at oneself rates the highest.

“A moron, a half-wit, even an idiot, can laugh at
other people’s mishaps; the man who can laugh at
a superstition, a custom, a tradition, an institution,
must be an observer; but the man who can genu-
inely laugh at himself is truly intelligent.”

CORPORAL PUNISHMENT
OR
THE GENERAL LIFE OF A CORPORAL
OR
THE PRIVATE LIFE OF A GENERAL
Ben Battle was a soldier bold,
And used to war’s alarms;
. But a cannon ball took off his legs—
So he laid down his arms!

Epitaph on a cook’s grave:

“WELL DONE, THOU GOOD AND FAITHFUL

SERVANT” '

Good night, shirt.
