THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 15, 1931

Important Resolutions
Passed by University
Professors’ Association

Endeavor Made to Prevent Profes-
sors’ Being Dismissed by Trustees
on Unjustifiable- Charges

ALL FEES MADE PUBLIC

“Other Organizations Working on
Same Problems,” Says Dr.
: Wilkins

Cleveland, Ohio—(IP)*-Two important
resolutions, one designed to place “above
board” the “close connection between public
utilities and the academic profession,” and
the other to provide a means for arriving
at a plan to insure freedom. of speech and
tenure of office for college professors, were
passed by the American Association of Uni-
versity Professors, in session here during
the holidays.

The first action provides that any mem-
ber of the organization who testifies or
speaks in public on behalf of an organiza-
tion or individual paying him a retainer fee
shall make public the fact that he is being
paid by that organization or individual.

In this action the professors’ association
apparently had in mind the report of its
committee which investigated the spreading
of propaganda by public utilities corpora-
tions through educators, many of whom, the
committee found, were receiving fees of as
much as $10,000 annually for research work
done for the utilities.

No voice was raised at the convention to
question the ethics of receiving such retainer
fees so long as the professors being paid
made the fact public.

The second resolution authorized the offi-
cers of the association to confer with other
organizations of college teachers in an effort
to work out a plan whereby college trustees
may be deterred from discharging faculty
members without reasons justifiable in the
minds of the teachers’ organizations, and re-
port back at the meeting next December.

The association was taken to task by Dr.
Ernest Hatch Wilkins, president of Oberlin
College, who addressed the annual banquet
at Hotel Statler, for its failure to take an
interest in an improvement of the quality
of teaching in American universities.

“Many other organizations, such as the
Association of American Colleges and the
Association of American Universities, are
tackling this problem,” the Oberlin presi-
dent said, “and, so far as I have been able
to discover, your organization is the only
one which. has failed to consider this prob-
lem, I feel strongly that you should do so
and that if you did it would mean a tre-
mendous influence in the right direction.”

Dr. Wilkins pleaded also for more indi-
vidual attention to the student by the pro-
fessor, asserting that, while the English tu-
torial system probably would not be accept-
able in this country, a compromise between
that system and the American lecture sys-
tem should be developed.

Frosh Are Victors
Over Steele Creek

Show Improvement in Winning
Over Opponent, 19-15

A very greatly improved Freshman team
defeated Steele Creek, 19 to 15, on January
6 on the Davidson court.

With Evans showing the way with nine
points, the Frosh had the lead all the way.
In the last few minutes of play, Steele
Creek brought the score up to 19 to 15, but
were stopped there by the Wildkitten de-
fense. Neal of Steele Creek proved most
potent of the high school sharpshooters, scor-
ing nine points himself. The visitors brought
with them an elongated bit of grief for the
Frosh in the person of one Choate, who
played center for Steele Creek. Mr. Choate
played a defensive game that proved rather
discouraging to his opponents.

Davidson had much the best of things so
far as speed and teamwork were concerned,
but Steele Creek, led by the aforementioned
Choate, put up a very stubborn defensive

game.

Davidson Position Steele Creek
Byanseo22 oe RW oe Hoover
Lafferty -----. LF. Neal
Rowan 2 2€ Choate
Morris RG. Byrum
Manson L.G. Williamson

Subs: Davidson—Holland, Lawther, Blan-
ton. Steele Creek—Ervin, Neeley. Referee,
Pritchett (Davidson).

Personal experience is the basis of all real
literature—George Henry Lewes.

College Calendar

Thursday, Jan. 15—Exams begin.

Sunday, Jan. 18—“Y” Vespers at
6 P. M. Mr. Oren Moore, of
Charlotte, will speak.

Tuesday, Jan. 20 — Literary Soci-
eties in respective halls at 6:45
P. M.

Wednesday, Jan. 21 — Meeting of
Student Sunday School Teach-
ers at 9 A. M. in “Y” Reading
Room.

New Library Books

There are forty new books in the college
library. They deal with diversified subjects,
such as biography, religion, history, science,
and music. These books will be placed on
their respective shelves, corresponding to
the subjects. The following gives the title
of the book and the outhor:

A History of Science, William Cecil Dam-

ier Dampier-Whetham; Simon Bolivar, Hil- |

degarde Angell; Since Then, Sir Philip
Gibbs; The Unity of the World, Guglielmo
Ferrero; Primary Worship Guide, Jeanette
FE. Perkins; Essays and Addresses, John
Burnet; Frederick the Great, Victor Thad-
deus; Wolsey, Hilaire Belloc; Old Masters
and Modern Art, Sir Charles Holmes; Uni-
versities, Abraham Flexner; Art and Re-
ligion, Von Ogden Vogt; To the South
Seas, Gifford Pinchot; Myths of the Origin
of Fire, Sir James George Frazer; Makers
of Modern Europe, Count Carlo Sforza;

The Infidel Emperor, Paul Wiegler;
Minoans, Philistines, and Greeks, A. R.

Burns, Five Masters, Joseph Wood Krutch,
The Universe Around Us, Sir James Jeans;
Parallel Lives, Clarence E. Macartney ;
Love in the New Testament, James Moffat;
The Life of Christ, Fillion; Explorations at
Sodom, Melvin Grove Kyle; Chile, L. E. El-
liott; Aggrey of Africa, Edwin W. Smith;
Travel and Travellers, edited by A. P. New-
ton; Freedom and Restraint, Robert F.
Campbell; Bible Landmarks in a Changing
Land, J. MacPhail Waggett; The Lost

‘Doctor Hardie Fills
| Church Pulpit Here

The Rev. Dr. James F. Hardie, pastor
of the Second Presbyterian Church, Char-
_lotte, delivered the morning sermon on Sun-
day, January 11, at the college church. Dr.
Hardie is one of the most prominent men in
the ranks of the Southern Presbyterian
Church and is widely known throughout the
South, Several years ago, he was called to)
Charlotte from a large pastorate in Houston,
Texas.

Dr. Hardie used as his theme, “And My
|God shall supply every need of yours ac-
jcording to his riches in glory in Christ
| Jesus,” Philippians 4:19> He then discussed
|the two principal factors in the verse, God
jand man. The Apostle Paul ‘was cited as the |
‘ideal recipient of God's gifts which fulfilled
|his “needs.”

Dr. Moffett
ham, Ala. He

vidson during

High Schools Will Hold
Annual Meet Here Soon

Meet is Set for March 21, by
Athletic Officials

left last week for Birming-
is expected to return to Da-
the present week.

College athletic officials have
the date for the annual high
school track meet on Richardson Field here.
This will be March 21, a day when no other |
athletic contests are scheduled, but which
will be entirely turned over to the visiting
high school students from approximately a
|dozen different schools of North Carolina.

This will be the fifth consecutive year that |
the high school lads have had an oppor-
tunity to exhibit their various abilities early

Davidson
lalready set

in the season, preparatory to any dual sched-
ule they may have, or to later track meets
at other institutions throughout the state. |
| Some of the best performers in North Caro- |
}lina today have participated in meets held
lat Davidson during the last four years.
| No definite efforts have been made on |
the part of the Davidson authorities toward |
| this meet, but in February they will begin

Professors Dismiss
State Institutions

Cleveland, Ohio—(IP)—Four Mississippi
state institutions of higher learning from
which Gov. Theodore Gilmore Bilbo dis-
missed 179 faculty members and officials
last summer, were blacklisted by the Ameri-
can Association of University Professors, in
session here during the holidays.

This latest attack on the Mississippi gov-
ernor, who is accumulating for himself and
his state the hostility of a large group of
American educational and professional soci-
eties, was formulated by a special investi-
gating committee of the professors’ organ-
ization.

The institutions affected bythe associa-

tion’s edict are the University of Mississippi,

\the Mississippi Agricultural and Mechanical |
‘College, the Mississippi State College for |
Women, and the Mississippi State Teachers |

College.

The passage of the resolution means, ac-
cording to Prof. H. W. Tyler, of Massa-
chusetts Institute of Technology,
secretary of the A. A. U. P., that so far
the the four
Mississippi state institutions wil! no longer
exist as valid institutions of higher learning.
Members of the assocation now teaching in
those schools will not lose their member-
ship in the organization, he said, but will
be placed on the association's list of mem-

as association is concerned,

bers who are no longer engaged in active |

teaching. Any member who accepts a posi-
tion in one of the four schools will lose his

membership in the association, under the |

rules.

Governor Bilbo’s action is regarded by
most of the societies connected with teach-
ing as one of the “most audacious examples
of the usurpation of academic tenure in this
country’s history,” officials of the A. A. U.
P.

said,

While in session here the professors read
an Associated

Mississippi governor as declaring that the

general |

Press dispatch quoting the |

Producers of Artificial
Radium Rays Win Award

Tuve, Hafstead, and Dahl Present
Experiments Before Physical
Society

Cleveland; Ohio—(1P)—Artificial produc-
tion of radium rays capable of penetrating
three inches of lead won the annual $1,000
| prize of the American Association for the
| Advancement of Science, in session here
|during the holidays.

The award went to M. A. Tuve, L. R.
| Hafstad and O. Dahl of the department of
/terrestial magnetism of the Carnegie Insti-
tute of Washington. The three presented a
\joint paper, “Experiments With High Volt-
age -Tubes,”. before the American Physical
Society.

The rays described by the scientists were
produced in a carefully annealed pyrex glass
tube, looking like a string of small fish-
bowls, which was sealed in an iron tank of
| compresse d oil. Next to the tube was placed
1a huge Tesla coil for producing a 2,000,000-
volt current which jumped the tube.

Extraordinary precautions were taken to
protect the observers from stray bolts of
electricity and from the powerful rays.

The short wave length radiations, called
Gamma rays, were measured on a Geiger
leounter, shielded by six-inch plates. The
rays were filtered through lead plates, one,
two, and three inches in thickness. The
thicker the filter, the shorter, or “harder”
the ray which struck the measuring instru-

ment.

The ultimate object of the experiment is
{to produce another sort of radium emana-
ition, Alpha rays, which are the heavy nuclei
of helium atoms shooting into space at the
rate of 12,000 miles a second.

When these rays are produced in, tubes
of still greater power, it is the intention
lto aim the Alpha rays at atoms and possibly
| smash them. If this is done the age-old dream
the necromancer, the transmutation of
elements, will become at least partly true.

The physics section of the association con-

jof

| societies which are blacklisting the state in- | sidered this contribution to the science of

Tribes, A Myth, Allen H. Godbey; Laugh-|extending their invitations, and expect to | SHtutions are “being THsISe by political | tipiit radiation the most important announce-
ing Boy, Oliver LaFarge; A Note in Music, | bring many more athletes here to this affair | propaganda against me.

Rosamond Lehmann; Angel Pavement, J. B.

Priestley; Captain Scott, Stephen Gwynn; /of the loving cup offered each year, but the | ernor was put on by more than 200 students | terious rac
The American Leviathan, William Beard, | lead by which they have won-their first cup | of the University of Mississippi, who have | Cosmic rays c¢
and Charles A. Beard; I Go South, Harry |

Shemury; The Miracle of the Galilean,
Bishop Paul B. Kern; The Ethics of Paul,
Morton Scott Enslin; So Youth May Know,
Poy E. Dickerson; ‘Saint Augustine, Giovan-
ni Papini; Contemporary Immortals, Archi-
bald Henderson.

Four Additional Games
Are Added to Schedule
Two Games With Duke, One With

Elon and One With Guilford
Scheduled

Two games with Duke University, and
one with Elon and Guilford are the most
recent additions to the Davidson College
basketball schedule. The card is not yet com-
plete, but according to an official announce-
ment, other contests will be scheduled until
a total of approximately 15 is reached. With
whom they will be has not been determined.

The first Duke game will not be played
on the scheduled trip through Central North
Carolina, but will take place during a spe-
cial trip to be made to Durham February
3. Later on in. February, State and Caro-
lina will be met at Raleigh and Chapel Hill,
respectively, on successive nights. The 17th
of the same month will witness the return
game with Duke, at either Davidson or
Charlotte.

Additional games, dates, and places:

Jan: 27—Elon at Davidson.

Feb. 3—Duke at Durham.

Feb. 7—Guilford at Davidson.

Feb. 17—Duke at Davidson or Charlotte.

1931 FOOTBALL TEAM
(Continued from page 1)

Probably no more ambitious schedule has
ever been undertaken by the Wildcats and
few by any non-conference Southern team.
A schedule which includes six conference
teams cannot be termed light even by a con-
ference member. The schedule is as follows:

Sept. 19—Elon/ at Davidson.

Sept. 26—N. C. State at Greensboro.

Oct. 3—Washington and Lee (place un-
decided).

Oct. 10—V. P. I. (place undecided).

Oct. 17—Duke at Davidson.

Oct. 24—Erskine at Davidson.

Oct. 31—V. M. I. at Davidson.

Nov. 7—The Citadel at Charleston, S. C.

Nov. 14—Carolina at Chapel Hill.

Nov. 26—Wake Forest at Davidson.

‘than formerly. Charlotte has been the winner |

has been materially cut down by_other high
schools during the last several years.in the
1930 tournament, the last evet decided the
| winner, |

/Dr. Lingle Leads

Dr.

| In Missions Work

| Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of David-
|son College, is the chairman of a committee
to present one phase of the foreign mission
work of the Southern Presbyterian Church
at the World Congress on Missions to he
held in Chattanooga, Tenn. Dr. Lingle has
completed his manuscript, and it is now in
the hands of the printers to be put into
pamphlet form. He is at the head of the
commission whose designated field was “The

Missionary Message and Obligation—Chris-
tianity and the Non-Christian Religious.’ |
Dr. Fraser, Hood, of Davidson, is one of
the ten members of the committee which |
assisted Dr. Lingle in the preparation of his
discussion.

The Congress is to meet. in Chattanooga,
February 16-19. It happens that these dates
conflict with a meeting of the college board
of trustees, which Dr. Lingle must attend.
He is, however, trying to change the dates |
of the board meeting in order to make it |
possible for him to attend both.

AMERICAN DRAMA
(Continued from page 1)

pose of this tour is to give students a fasci-
nating opportunity to view Russia as well
as to study outstanding examples of the new
drama, Lectures will be given by the direc-
tor in the experimental and workers’ theatres
and there will be frequent comparisons with
the Continental methods and the Russian
school preceding and following the work of
Stanislavsky. The troupe will attend re-
hearsals and hold conferences with maay
leading producers. The tour will also include
visits to the Meyerhold Theatre, Moscow
Arts Theatres, Kamerny Theatre, Blue
Blouse Troupes, Theatre of Social Satire in
Moscow, and the Ukranian National Theatre.

Folders and full particulars can be ob-
tained concerning these two interesting tours
from the Drama League Travel Bureau, 15
West 44th Street, New York.

I doubt, despite Omar Kayyam and the
Latin proverb, that any profound philos-
ophical truth has ever lept from the wine-
cup.—W. B. Seabrook.

A recent demonstration against the gov-

lost their academic standing in other colleges
and graduate schools because of the affair.

| They burned Bilbo's effigy.

The idea that you can restore permanent
prosperity by spending public money and
thereby necessitating more taxes is un-
sound.—Borah.

It is not a laughing age. Notice how little |

laughter you hear on the streets——Sherwood
Anderson.

I am rarely enthusiastic about what the
League of Nations has done or has not done,
but I am always glad it exists——Prof. Al-
bert Einstein.

lment during the meeting here, as it brings
physicists nearer the solution of the mys-
| lium and X-ray emanations, and
ming to the earth from inter-
stellar space. Cosmic rays are so powerful

| they pierce
| ;
| Duke University

| School of Medicine

| Durhan, N. C.

On October 1, 1931, carefully
selected first and third year
students will be admitted. Ap-
plications may be sent at any
time and will be considered in
the order of receipt. Catalogues
and application forms may be
obtained from the Dean.

six feet of lead.

First Flying Smokers’ Compartment!

Miss Valentine La Dor, pioneer

airplane hostess, fs handing a pas

senger an Old Gold with the assurance that “there’s not a cough in a
plane-load.” She and five other hostesses, commencing January 10, will
fly as the third member of the crew on the 18-passenger de luxe planes
of the Eastern Air Transport, Inc., on the New York-Washington division,

The hostesses will provide cigarets

to passengers to be smoked in what

is believed to be the world’s first aerial smoking compartments in the
airplane public carrier field in the U. S. These compartments with their
special equipment and ventilation mark a new stage in catering to the
comfort of flying passengers, and they are for the use of both sexes.

Free coffee, tea, and biscuits

will also be served.

, the

ise the pilot, lot and hostess.
regular crews on thése runs will compr e pilot, co-pilo
The planes leave New York and Washington thrice daily, each way, with

stops in Philadelphia. .
