N

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 18, 1931

|The Dabidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the

Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

. WILSON McCUTCHAN....-..........-..... Editor-in-Chief
. A. CANNON Busi Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
E. C. DWELLE, JR. Managing Editor
W. S. LEA Managing Editor
D. G. MARTIN Managing Editor
W. H. MATTHEWS. Sports Editor
A. H. WHITEHEAD. -News Editor
V. M. BELL Feature Editor
NORMAN RAIES. Feature Editor
A. R. JACKSON... .---Review Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN Associate Editor
dy Fs BLACK Associate Editor
. C, RAGIN... A iate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
P.M CONWAY csscccce causes. ssistant Business Manager
A Z: BAKER Assistant Business Manager
6 Bb OUR IN Dodge sanscnancdas. Assistant Business Manager
A. G. MONTGOMERY. tion is

P. F. BROWN cd i
R. W. FALLS sucee licit
A. M. MANSON licitor
AS ISSO MIS BANE {cass tusccsceucdskecascoscasccsccocsecoues solicitor
W. R. MORROW
REPORTERS’ CLUB

S. S. WILEY. President
D. G. STEPHENSON....--...-.-...--..--.--.-- Vice-President
A. H. WHITEHEAD....--.......-....--- Secretary-Treasurer

R. H. ALDERMAN J. M. BROW

J.°G: BERRY G. E, BAILEY

A. R. BIRD . E. YD

N. B. DICKS . G. DUNKLIN

E. O. GUERRANT . T. HANCOCK

. EL KE R. L. McCALLIE

. C. MATTHEWS Cc. F. MYERS

. F. MULLISS H. F. NICHOLS

G. P. PARDINGTON S. P. PRESTON

C. W. F. SPENCER B, B. SUGG

B. B. TAYLOR., W. B. WARD

J. R. SMI D. D. McBRYDE

MARCH 18, 1931

~ Tt takes a noble soul not to show a feeling
of envy, but a positive and real delight in the
success of others. James Moffett.

SUGGESTIONS
Big league baseball managers do not realize
what they are missing in not scouting the sandlot
games between Chambers building and the dor-
mitores.

Like most other clubs, all departments of the
game seem to be well filled with the exception of the
pitchers. Rumor has it that Walter Fraley gained a
new record when he only allowed six earned runs
in a nine inning game recently. Incidentally, four
of these were home runs by Meacham, two with
the bases loaded.

Spring holidays are not far away. It is rather
miraculous; the way in which six hundred men
can disperse to all parts of the country and gather
together again in five days time.

R. O. T. C. authorities are expecting the gov-
ernment inspectors along toward the latter part of
April. It is the high mark of the year in the Re-
served Unit.

Davidson men rendered good service at the re-
cent fire in Cornelius. It would have been more ap-

There is no doubt but what the bass member
of the Hampton quartet treated the Davidson
audience to some of the lowest notes they have
heard in some time.

PROPER ATTENTION

When approximately two hundred students
left the auditorium upon the completion of the
program by the Hampton quartet, rushed hur-
riedly to Eu Hall, and then ran back to the
auditorium, they paid Dr. Swan a compliment
which few lecturers have received at Davidson.
Never has an audience paid as rapt attention to
a speaker. @);

Next week Dr. C. F. Myers, of Greensboro,
begins the annual spring services under the aus-
pices of the Y. M. C. A. In the four years
that we have been here that organization has
never failed to provide a man who was not spir-
itually, intellectually, and emotionally inspiring.
It has become a part of the traditions of the
college.

Seniors, and other upper-classmen, will re-
call the visits and services led by ministers of
church and national fame. Such names as Dr.
Vander-Meulen, Dr. B. R. Lacy, Dr. W. T.
Thompson, Dr. Sam Glasgow, and Dr. Bill
Anderson arouse recollections of inspiring talks.
Whether graduates of Davidson or not, they
have grafted themselves into the present life
on the campus.

There is nothing to indicate that the services
this spring will prove an exception to the rule.
Many students have heard Dr. Myers and know
what they can expect; others have a treat in
store for them. Finally, regardless of: who, the
speaker may be, there is hardly a man who will

perfection and could. be better. These talks are ’

for the benefit of everyone, not for one par-
ticular. individual or group.

SPRING ELECTIONS HOLD SWAY

With the exception of the recent voting on
the Varsity Cheer Leader, Freshmen are about
to experience their first active participation in
student bodv elections. For the Seniors, it is
their last. Upper-classmen know exactly what
importance should be attached to this yearly
rite, first-year men possibly do not, as yet, un-
derstand its true significance.

In the last analysis there are two distinct
parts in this business of student government.
The first is choosing the men; the second is
supporting them after they have been chosen.
It would be hard to sav which is the more im-
portant phase, for neither can function prop-
erly if the other is lacking.

It is often a difficult position in which the
voter is placed when he has to decide between
two men who appear equally fitted for the post
‘to which they have been nominated. There are,
however, a few factors which should be taken
into consideration when such a dilemma de-
velops. Which man will have the most influence
with those with whom he will have to associate
and with those whom he must direct? Which
of the two men will stand criticism with the
maximum amount of gracefulness and tact, for
he will inevitably be criticized ?

Contrary to some observations we have
heard, we do not believe that it is harmful to
compare two candidates, one against the other.
If a man cannot stand the observations which
fall upon him as a nominee, he can never hope
to surmount the criticism which will surround
him as an office holder.

Secondly, the voter should remmeber that
when he casts a ballot for a man he is pledging
himself to support that man, if elected, in every
possible way. If one does not feel that he can
give a certain individual full-fledged co-opera-
tion in the administration of his office, he
should not give him his vote. The time to rake
a’man over the coals is before, not after, his
election.

Davidson never has and never will counte-
nance open politics in student body elections.
Students should remember, in this connection,
that the best guarantee against such a situation
lies in every man casting a vote. In national
affairs political machines bank their chances of
success on the fact that the average citizen
thinks that he is far too busy to bother ahdut
going to the polls. Therefore, if an individual
happens to be absent when a vote is cast, he
should hand in that vote to the proper person
as soon as possible, or, if he is going to be awav,
he should leave his choice before he goes.

It cannot be denied that there is a tendency
in the minds of many to pick the winners of
the various elections.
trait, for everyone likes to feel in his own mind
that he has been on the victorious side. It
should require but little thought, however, for
the voter to realize that this condition is hard
to tolerate. The true spirit is found in choosing
the best man, not the one who appears most
likely to.gain the office.

After the office is filled, the student body
must remember that the man who fills it must
have unselfish and whole-hearted support, The
possibilities that a minority is in the right and
the majority in the wrong provide interesting
topics for discussions, but talking about these
things does not increase a man’s efficiency after
he is elected. For the successful administration
of a democratic form of government the ma-
jority must be assumed to always be in the
right.

Finally, there are a few hints which will not
be amiss to many men in the student body,
Freshmen in particular. Intense interest in an
election and in its outcome often leads to little’
acts which are thoughtless, but, nevertheless,
out of place. When inquiring about the results
of a recent balloting, never question any of
them who were nominated for that office. The
chances are that they, themselves, know no
more about it than the one who is talking to
them. If they do know the results, thev may
easily be embarrassed. A man does not like to
be interrogated about a matter in which he may
have been defeated, and neither does one like
to go about proclaiming to everyone that he was
the winner. It is a fine thing to congratulate a
man on his success, but he should not he the
one to inform another of that success. When
discussing those who have been nominated for
lan office always do so in a gentlemanly man-
ner, especially if in the presence of friends of
one of the nominees. It is easy to hurt a per-
son’s feelings, and it accomplishes no good.

Elections are a serious matter, and they
should be entefed' into ‘with an attitude of fair-
ness, justice, and respect. The results of action
taken here will last for a year, regardless of
the attitude of the voter. The water that runs
throuch a mill wheel is lost as far-as that mill
is concerned.

This is a fundamental.

A reporter’s life is hard! After six months of
strenuous effort, some information was finally ob-
tained concerning Gaither Jenkins’ trip to Europe
_ where he remained for a year.

Gaither left in September, 1929, and returned last
fall just in time to enroll for his Junior year in Da-
vidson. He went abroad with the intention of just
making a short tour of the continent and returning,
but changed his mind after he got there. He spent
nine months in Paris except for intermittent vacations
which took him to nearly a dozen different countries.
While in the French capital, Gay entered the Alliance
Francais for a term, and later matriculated at the
Sorbonne or University of Paris, the first-named being
an institution in the instruction of languages. While
attending these colleges, he coritinttally made exten-
sive “excursions around the vicinity? of the famous
city. ‘

Outstandng among his experiences was his ad-
venture into the enormous underground lake
which is situated under the Grande Opera, the
largest opera house in the world. Years ago when
the great theater was under construction and the
builders were digging the foundations, they struck
water which soon formed a lake. The secret pas-
sage to this deep cavern was five cellars under-
ground, and very hazardous. In fact, the danger.is
so great that the officials absolutely forbid any
visitors from entering into the place. However, he
finally persuaded the concierge to admit him but
only after offering a bribe. The scene was awe-in-
spiring, he says, and it is not unlike the setting in
the underground episodes of the late Lon Chaney's
famous movie vehicle. “The Phantom of the
Opera.” Peculiarly enough, very few Parisians are
aware of this unusual place. :

While in Italy, the Winston-Salem boy took a
twenty-mile hike up to the top of Mount Vesuvius,
near Naples, and descended into the volcanic crater
(which fortunately was not in eruption at the time).
Upon his arrival at Rome, it happened that Musso-
lini was making a speech near the center of the fa-
mous city, and got close enough to the Duce to take

a snapshot of him. The enthusiastic reaction of the

Italians to their dictator’s presence was amazing. They
hail him almost as an idol and the vociferous cheers

’which greeted the leader were continuously shouted

after his address was over. His visit at the Vatican
City was also well-timed and here again a celebration
was being held in which the Pope was an active
participant.

Gay believes that Switzerland is the most pic-
turesque of all the countries he visited, and that its
inhabitants more nearly approached our inimitable
Southern hospitality than did the citizens of any
other’country he toured. :

Among other observations and experiences worthy
of mention were: the frequency of attendance of
President Doumergue of France at the opera—spec-
tacular winter sports at St. Moritz in Switze-land
St. Peter’s Church in the Vatican City, the large:
cathedral in the world, in which are*displayed some
priceless paintings of the old Italian masters—from
Sicily to Tunis ‘where civilization has made little head-
way—Carthage, where the ancient ruins, replica of
Hannibal’s reign, were viewed—camel caravans in
Algeria—the National Exhibiton at Barcelona, Spain,
similar to our World Fair—Shakespeare’s historic
home at Stratford-on-Avon—the colorful change of
guard at Buckingham Palace, home of King George
of England—and bicycling through Belgium.

Too, it is remarkable, he said how many Ameri-
cans you meet abroad. He encountered many
friends whom he knew well here in this country,
among whom were some Davidson men.

Monk and Tex’s rules of sportsmanship, which
were adopted by. the student body recently, certainly
were badly needed. Our spirit at some athletic con-
tests this year, namely basketball, was disgusting, and
nothing less than shocking. Fellows, this is an alarm-
ing situation, At other schools it might be overlooked.
But we, here at Davidson, have been left with a sa-
cred, inviolable heritage—true Davidson spirit—to
guard, nurture and foster it—entrusted in our care
by nearly 4,000 alumni who have preceded us. Are we
going to break faith with them? Are we actually will-
ing to destroy, deliberately, the fine results of 94
years’ work? Are you going to let Davidson drop to
the level of the average college or are you going to
learn to be a good sport?

‘Too, booing, and hissing, and razzing, have
never won any athletic contest—they have never
changed a referee's decision—they never impress our
visiting teams with our cordiality which really ex-
ists here—and furthermore, never indicate to the
coaches that you are actually supporting them. So
what benefit is there in being a poor sport—a bad
loser—and a traitor to the established principles of
our student body?

A revival of state clubs is rather evident in the un-
usual activity of the West Virginia Club this year.
These organizations should be encouraged. They can
be made equally as beneficial as some honorary clubs,
if they are efficiently carried on, The main argument
that state university advocates advance is, that the
future associations in business and professions, in their
native state, of students who are educated together at

MUSINGS 9% te
MATADOR __

Pe vercen Ge
Zee BELL niece
Ladies and Gentlemen for the past half-hour you
have been entertained by Floyd Gibbons, speaking his
gibbonish in his own unauthorized bass. We take great
pleasure in announcing our next feature, the Red and
Black hour, a program coming direct to you by elec-
toral transition from the studios of Chambers Build-
ing. We now turn the microphone over to the direc-
tor of the program.

Good evening, folks. Here we are gathered in the
beautiful’ Chambers Auditorium about to begin our
program of music of all types. I see the orchestra
leader has his baton on high so I had better an-
riounce our theme song, “Lingle a While.” And while
the music continues, let me warn you that this job
of announcing is not so hot. Sometimes you get so con-
fused that you mix up your consonants and Vowles,
but it is a fascinating art. I am now Culluminating
my sixth year on this network and when I look back
over the years I say, “Hood have thought I would
ever have my name in all the papers as Graham Mc-
Namee, the world famous announcer?” But it all
shows that you must practice what you pritch and
then Pritchett some more. You've got to sit around
and watch for your chance to make good; it’s not just
yourself that controls your destiny, the world around
you is what let Shewmake a name for yourself. But
when you first taste success it makes you feel just like
a lion, and you go Blythely on your way. You can't
ever tell—maybe some day you'll be famous, but then
again, Mebane not.

I see that the first number is Cumming to a close
in a moment; in just a Lilly while you will hear the
next number. I don’t know the name of it but I'll
soon find out Watts what.

Oh, yes, the next song will be:

“Currie me back to old Virginia.”

That old song about Virginia brings back my child-
hood days in Arizona where I used to have such Grey
big times, although you would. Harding believe it to
look at me now. Yes, I guess the happiest days of my
life were either when I was a child, Erwin I was in
college, I can’t decide which. My mother used to tell
me that 1 had Beaty be a good boy or she Wood
spank me. Oh, I had to walk the chalk Lyon when I
was a kid, all right. I was pretty lazy, too, I guess;
we used to dig caves to play in, but I always Douglas
than the rest of the boys.

Ah, the orchestra has finished that number, so I
Schenck hold them up by talking. They will now play
that old Irish love song,

“Although your hair’s not Goldiere.”

And while the orchestra renders that number I will
tell you that you are listening to the Red and Black
hour, which is rapidly drawing to a close. Also I Otto
tell you. that this is Graham McNamee announcing.

Well, this program’s Scott to go off the air in a
few minutes. The last selection will be that frolicking
little ballad entitled,

“Don’t Thies my little Brown kitten.”

And with that we sign off for tonight.

Good-bye, folks.

Decency varies according to time and place, to con-
ditions and social strata—Elmer Rice.

Sin has become a word of the museum.—Rev. Allan
K. Chalmers.

The air in the average American home in winter
is actually drier than a kiln used for drying lumber.

Economic depression has served to uncover a wealth
of human kindness and consideration—Governor Lar-
son, of New Jersey.

America is waking up intellectually. There are evi-
dences everywhere of a rising tide of freedom.—Dr.
Magnus Hirschfield. ;

In every battle fought, in the various steps we have
taken from barbarism, it is a contest between human
beings and dollars, and it’s still going on.—Senator
Norris.

Beware of one-sided diets.—Dr. Leopold Steiglitz.

Men cannot thrive in America without pie.—James
J. Davis.

All great humorists have been old, for age alone
frees us from seriosity—Poultney Bigelow.

Only a people that are strong and calm can work
usefully for peace—Andre Tardieu.

Beautiful brunettes are more rare than beautiful
blondes.—Florenz Ziegfeld.

a common state institution, will be of vast benefit.
That issue can easily be met by endowed schools by
the formation of state clubs. All men from the same
state should know each other intimately. The advan-
tages are too obvious to mention. Furthermore, they
can invariably have a good spirit, especially here at
Davidson, where state pride is so prevalent.
