’ THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 239, 1931

DAVIDSON ;

DAVIDSON ©

sou, THE SPORTS PARADE N, 6 STATE
FEBRUARY 3 SATURDAY NIGHT
Wildcats Eke Out Hard Davidson Track Team Is | |

Fought Win Over V.P.I.
In Thrilling Game, 21-20

Wildcats Extend Winning Streak to
Four Straight and Third Over
Southern Conference Teams

PALMER LEADS SCORING

Bill Goodson and Doc Mathis Lead
’Cats in Close Exhibition

The Davidson Wildcat quintet took the
V. P. I. five, fresh from a victory over the
strong U. of N. C. team, into camp, 22 to

20, here Saturday night, and added their
scalp to the growing list of victories. The |
game was close and packed with thrills |
from beginning to end, and the excellent
guarding of both teams made the counters
all the more important.

The Gobblers started their second team |
with the exception of Captain Baker, but
quickly inserted their first-stringers when
the Wildcats pulled out in front with a 5
to 2 lead. The veterans were soon able to’)
stem the tide and from then until the half |
very few balls found the coveted inside of
the basket. As the first half ended, Palmer
dropped in a foul shot to give his team a
9~to 8 advantage.

Captain Goodson opened the Davidson
fireworks soon after the second period start-
ed by dropping in two beautiful long shots. !
Goodson’s mates started finding the basket |
from this point on, and when the time clock
showed only two more minutes left to play,
Davidson was leading, 22 to 16. At this point
Palmer got busy and dropped a short one
and then a long one to cut the lead down to
two points. After Davidson had missed a
crip shot under the goal, V. P. I. worked
the ball down the floor but a long shot |
missed its mark. The ball bounded off the |
backboard and was knocked out of bounds
as the game ended. |

Captain Bill Goodson and Doc Mathis led
the Wildcat scorers with six points each,
Palmer was high scorer for the evening with |
eight points. |

VeePe I; G. Fg. Tp.
Bakeries sans eect enon ems 2 0 4
Bosléya tes ege soe a De e{8) 4
WMbDSit ssa o se eee oe 0 0 0
Donaldson: ce ssocsee ee eae 0 0 0)
Seamanucy see. oe see ec ae 2. .0 0;
Schreibing; 2: 22 soos ees 0 0 0)
Palmnetaige ssoscse See ees 2 8
IWioltefigs seers soe slo oe eee 0 0 0

Motals oss ss oe ee 9 Zee)
Davidson G. Fg. Tp.
RTS Leas ee ea ee 1 1 3 |
Mathisy feenerc siete Are 2 2 6
Mantine: clas sa sen n one ae acne 1 1 3
DIGhCe Cee at ae yee cee wee 1 1 3 |
Goodson Geos sores eae 3 0 6.
Broctonmgie2 eae ence ee ce anes 0 1 1

WDotal sree Sake eee 8 Oy 22

Non-scoring substitutes: V. P. I.—Hall, |
Belote, Yaggie; Davidson—Peabody. Ref-
eree, Robertson (Furman); umpire, Raw-.
son (Georgia).

~Y/

DAVIDSON 37; ERSKINE 23

Captain Bill Goodson went on a scoring)
rampage to lead his Wildcat basketeers to
a 37-23 win over the Erskine Seceders on |
the home floor, January 14. The eye of the |
Davidson captain was on the basket, and |
the machine-like regularity with which he |
dropped in counters took the heart out of |
the visiting five. Goodson’s total for the |
night was 17 points, eight field goals and
one foul goal.

The Erskine five jumped into the fead’
soon after the opening whistle and were
leading, 6 to 2, but Captain Goodson soon |
started his work. He sank a field goal and |
Mathis did likewise to tie the count. Then |
in quick succession Goodson dropped in three |
field goals and shortly before the end of the
half made good with two more. The Wild-
cats were leading at the half, 20 to 15.

Towards the end of the game, the Erskine
quint showed a spurt to come within four
points of the fast moving «Davidson team, |
but after a short consultation, Davidson rang
up 10 points while holding their opponents
scoreless.

Goodson was the outstanding player on the
floor, both on the offense and defense. Cap-
tain Reid looked best for Erskine.
Erskine G. Fg.
Hambpright; to 2oscos sess eS 1 1

Tp.
3

New W. & L. Contract

Davidson College’s original one-
year football arrangement with
Washington and Lee has been made
into a two-year contract, accord-
ing to Capt. Norton G. Pritchett,
professor of physical education and
schedule-maker for Davidson. The
1931 encounter has been definitely
placed at Lexington, Va., the fra-
cas for 1932 coming to the David-
son campus. It was intimated at
the conclusion of negotiations for a
game that the 1931 tilt would be
either at Asheville, Lexington, or
Davidson, but the contract has now
been signed for the General's back-
yard,

Capt Pritchett also announced
that it seemed likely that the V.
P. I.-Davidson game would be at
Blacksburg, Va. “Our contract has
been signed for that place,” he said,
“with the optional clause that the
V. P. I. officials could change it to
any other point at their discretion.”
Richmond, Va., was mentioned as
a possible city in which the Wild-
cat-Gobbler melee would occur, and
it is known here that several indi-
viduals and parties in Roanoke are
endeavoring to get the game sched-
uled for that city.

Thirty-Seven Report
For Spring Football
Coaches Tilson and Laird Will be in

Charge, With Covington as
Assistant

Work Divided in Periods

Fundamentals Will Come First With
Games Later on

Thirty-seven) men reported for spring
football practice Monday, under the diree-
tion of Coaches Tilson and Laird. Hub Coy-
ington has given his time to helping them,
although himself ineligible for play next fall.
The practice will be divided into periods, in
which the coaches will take up different

phases of the game. It will last for six weeks,
| the first two or three to be devoted entirely
'to fundamentals, such as blocking, tackling,

forward passing, etc., the next one to run-
ning and timing of plays and the last to

To Face Stiff Schedule

Meets With N. C. State, Farmer,
Duke, and V. M. I. Already
Definitely Set

PLAN FOUR HOME MEETS
Season to be Closed With State
Meet at Greensboro

This year dhe Davidson track team will
meet severe competition on the cinder paths,
probably more ‘Severe than ever before. The
full schedule has not been announced as
yet, but so far meets have been scheduled
With North Carolina State, Furman, Duke,
and V. M. 1. Captain Pritchett and Man-
ager Sisson are at the present. time tryitig
to get a meet with either the University
of Georgia or the University of South Car
olina, Following the regular scheduled sea-

son, the team will journey to Greensboro for
the State meet.

There are two trips for the varsity. this |
year, in all probability, one into South Car
olina and one to the State meet. The trip
into South Carolina is not definite. Captain
Pritchett, track coach, had planned for a
trip out to Memphis, but he decided to post
pone the trip and go out there next year
during the spring holidays.

The Georgia Tech Relays, which are at
tended annually by the Davidson team, were
eliminated on account. of ‘financial difficul-
ties, according to Coach W. A. Alexander,
director of the Tech Relays. Last year in
these relays, Heath Whittle, now assistant
track coach, won a first and a second, plac- |
ing first in the 120-yard high hurdles and
second in the 220-yard low hurdles. Graham
George finished third in the 220-yard low |
hurdles and Joe MeCall, 1931 captain, fin
ished second only to Ed Hamm in the broad
jump; Hamm at that time held the world’s
record in the broad jump with a reeord of
25 feet. 11 1-4 inches. Last year in the State
mect at Greensboro, Davidson finished third
following Carolina and State, but were with
ina very few points of passing State. In
this meet Whittle in the
120-yard high hurdles and the 220-yard low
hurdles, Graham George finished second in
the low hurdles and Joe MeCall outleaped
all the competition to win the broad jump.

won two. firsts,

Davidson should have a good team this
year with nearly all of last year’s men back
except Whittle, Gene Smith, pole vaulter, and
Bob

Norton,sone of the milers. From last

year’s Freshman team there

‘Duke must be played twice, and State

jin the second half against the State.

door meets, and the other on

LOOKING

"EM OVER

With W. H. Matthews

SHADOWS OF COMING EVENTS
January 31.—Wrestling, Varsity vs. N. C.
State at Davidson. Basketball, Fresh
vs. Charlotte, at Charlotte.

|

February 3.—Basketball, Varsity vs. Duke |

at Durham. Wrestling, Fresh
Barium Springs at Barium Springs.

February 4.—Basketball, Fresh vs. Bel- |
|

mont Abbey, ct Belmont. |

—
By virtue of N.C. State's victory over |
we ; ; j |
Duke last Saturday night, Davidson |

moves into undisputed leadership of the!

Big Five cage race, and into a command. |
; |
ing the

first

for
the

favorites
of

position as
at the
at the end of January.

But the big tests of the Wildcats are |
yet to come. True, the N. C. State and
Carolina games were no small tasks, but

cham-
|

pionship close half |

and Carolina must be met once more, |
and this time on their home courts, on|
successive nights. We believe that Coach
Younger has a team that is this year cap-
able of a state championship, but only
if they play the kind of basketball shown
in the last half of the Carolina tilt, and
In
other words, their best.

The barriers yet remaining are bigger

by far than those which have been |
cleared. Davidson must win all their re-
maining games to claim the Big Five |
title, since she plays fewer contests with-
in the circuit than do the other fnem-
bers. We believe they can win if the

team and student body really put out.

With exams over, things in a sports

gram as has been mapped out for Wild-
cat cinder artists.

We must admit now that we were

V8. | among those who thought that Davidson's
| basketball team for this year would be

below that of last. However, the way—
a most decisive way it has been—that
they have dispatched four hard teams
in a row has completely wrecked our pre-
season views. Bill Goodson has improved
over his last year’s form remarkably, and
is just about the best all-around basket-
ball player we have had the privilege of
seeing. pretty to watch.
Proctor and Rusk are playing ball on a
par of that which they exhibited last
winter. And Martin, Mathis, and
Pierce, the new-comers to the regular
lineup have fitted in like veterans. It is
a smooth-working combination that Coach
Monk Younger has been able to fashion
this winter.

His work is

When this is being written, the weather
without is balmy and dry. By the time
you read this it will probably be raining.
But this is not a prophecy. We merely
wanted to drop the hint that if it
raining, you could drop over to the well)

is

equipped gymnasium and work out for
an ‘afternoon,

Your object might be a little exercise.
Another just as good would be to prac-
tice a little enter the
gymnastic competition which will be soon
underway. A handsome trophy is being

gymnastics and

way really begin on the campus.
calendar for February shows some David-
son teams in action almost every da
throughout the month, except Sundays,
and frequently two teams having matches
the same day. Coupled with that, Coach
Tilson is sending his winter football squad
through the strenuous training season
when the fundamentals are really drilled
into the gridsters, and Capt. Pritchett is
working with his track men every day.
He has one eye cocked on the winter in-
the most
ambitious track schedule that

has attempted in a long time.
9

Davidson

The}

awarded to the winner, as well as points
ftoward the class championship to the
ltwenty high men. Frank Reid Brown,
winner of the trophy last year, did
Fnearly .everything in a gymnastic way
called for. It is likely that there will be
several who will be fighting it out this
year for first prize. The requirements
are posted in the old armory and on the
sports bulletin board in Chambers. Some-
one will be in the gymnasium nearly every
afternoon of the week to demonstrate
the movements. Get in a little exercise
when the weather is inclement—or when
it with an eye also on entering
the gymnastic competition.

is fair

H P : : : are Karle, a
}games in which there will be opportunity ; yoee ve ! | Ane SR Waray oer Nets
\Ropatan Sa -.. ° | miler, Bob McCallie and Alex Little, hurd Just an inkling of what Is coming. Four e
‘to judge the effectiveness of the earlier lers, and Flinn, a broad jumper, who offers | home mects—Capt. Pritchett says they are That Wildcat Offense
Wee good prospects, as well as a number of the biggest ever to be brought here
This spring practice is considered so es-] others. have been carded. In addition to that, Field Foul Total
sential by the coaches that any man having there are one or two meets on foreign Players Goals Goals Points
“more than a very few unexcused absences squad and will thus become ineligible for soil, the State meet in Greensboro, and Goodson, g ----- Fi ; Fe
will be unconditionally dropped from the} work on it next fall. one or two other big relay meets like Rusk, f --------
hee follouine i conan ok ihe ; | the Tech carnival. As ambitious a. pro- Martin, f, c. ---- 13 4 30
| Tt OUOWADE 18 a list ot the men W 10 Mathis, po 9 3 21
GansGhie hess seco Seg 0 6]| reported for practice Monday: Don King, 5 3 11
Pt j ; ey . ) ¥ 5 The schedule is as follows: Pierce, c | teeters 4
SIMONtON nose serene eee eee 0 0 0] Don McQueen, Buddy Gardner, Bud Raker msn as, ere ¢ ; i 5
Reidsic (6) aseerssc ss se es 4 3 W}and Buck Mills, letter men; and J. D. Mc-| March 28 N. C, State, here. Bas ; MARL Soe i ; y
Batimeuatty 2) sess seee ee 1 1 3] Connell, Kuykendall, Clark, © Mackorell, April 2—Furman, Greenville (tentative). Ree ar eatery : ‘ :
Retty jean es ee 0 0 0} Creech, Mullins, Rule, Maxwell, Beacham, April 11— Duke, here. SR oes i 4 2
— —. —]Norfleet, McKinnon, Wooten, O'Keefe, J. April 18—University of South Carolina, Enocs, g --------
MotalSie sss oe Se ee a 9 5 23]H. Pratt, West, Ogden, Strange, Blanton, here. ae ak aa
“11 25 ae Vy ee MVS Sale etre rere cee d|| Foutsnars Wee 1 poeareempoei 23 151
| Davidson G. Fg. Tp.| Nickey, W. M. Thompson, J. Goodykoontz,, April 25-—V. M. I., here. Totals --- Mi
Ria icra esters eS ee ee 0 6| Baggett, Rice, McElrath, Shaw, Carrigan, May 2-—State meet, Greensboro, =
tpReabodViniivoso2- 3 =  ce geneous 0 0 0|C. M. Howard, Lynn, Cochran, and Rives. |
Martinp tc eoorsess os ee eeG 0 6| Many of these men have shown up well in
Math smite sas sane us Cre 0 6| fall work, and, with the material they have, STATIONERY MAGAZINES
Goodson) gy, (©) ceo a eee 8 1 17) the coaches will be able to develop a fine STUDENT SUPPLIES BOOKS
ProctOniies mocke neces sse cesses 1 0 2] team for. the coming season. Some of the
— — —|regular men, who would otherwise be out, | FOUNTAIN PENS SUNDRIES
Motalsy sess soe ee 18 1 37) are now busy with basketball and wrestling. | NEW RECORDS EVERY WEEK
f2 £2
SUPERIOR SODA SERVICE
SALE SALE W. S. HENDERSON
STETSON “D” STORE
la Pe eee
PHONE 206
4 RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Everything Reduced Founded 1812. Jointly owned by the Synods of Virginia, North
in Carolina, West Virginia, Appalachia HAS ¥
Come in and Take Lg A Distinguished Faculty
: G Nineteen Buildings, on a
Advantage of This Offer Rill Acs Chana.
A Moderate Endowment, and
SALE SALE Many Scholarships
For Catalogue and information, address
Rey. B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., President
id
Le Cr) —— ———————————SS

