N

_ THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 11, 1831

The Dabidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

|

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

» WILSON McCUTCHAN..............--...-. Editor-in-Chief
sUAP CANNONS Sosucitssccscecccueuslesess Business Manager

E. -Managing Editor
W. -Managing Editor
Dy, Gi aMARITUING diiecccdccsccksocsecuece -Managing Editor
W. H. MATTHEWS. ...--Sports Editor
AL By WH DL IGE TOA Daten ccsscnbcccddescassbacbuge News Editor
Vi oh B Wii lseieuceses -Feature Editor
NORMAN _ RAIES. -Feature Editor
A. R. JACKSON .-Review Editor
P. R. ALDERMA Associate Editor
Ga BLACK..-.. -Associate Editor

ACS RAGING So sstsko cn scusnewsceeusscdevess Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

P. M. ---Assistant Business Manager
A. J. BAKER-...... Assistant Business Manager
J. B. STE -Assistant Business. Manager
A. G. NTGOMERY..............-.- Subscription Manager
PioOBS BROW Nitssiscsscsscks cocccccosuctcussesenscecest Solicitor
R. W. FALLS Solicitor
A. M.
A. L. 0
W. R.
s. S.
D. G.
A. H.

R. J. M.

J, I. E.

N. . G.

E. W. T.

J. R. L. y

& (Os 1; 'E

V. F. MULLISS H. F. NICHOLS

G. P. PARDINGTON S. P. PRESTON

Cc. W. F. SPENCER B. B. SUGG

B. B. TAYLOR W. B. WARD

J. R. SMITH D. D. McBRYDE

MARCH 11, 1931

Slogans are dangerous. I am afraid of them,
not for myself but for the Empire.
Stanley Baldwin.

SUGGESTIONS

We wonder what would happen if anyone in
Davidson would actually win the first prize of
$25,000.00 offered by a well known company?

Several students hurried to their seats the other
morning when the organist played a march before
the usual prelude. We like the idea of music as
men take their places in the auditorium.

Capt. C. S. Morrison, of Charlotte, was one of
the best known railroad men in the state. Having
railroaded for 51 years without receiving as much
as a reprimand, al elder in the Presbyterian church,
a member of the Masonic lodge, he had an ex-
emplary life replete with friends. Many Davidson
men have ridden on his trains.

When James C. Stone accepted the chairman-
ship of the federal farm board he succeeded Alex-
ander Legge. It seems to be a question of matter
over flesh; nobody wants the job:

Friends always pay! Tarzan placed Sublatus in
some embarrassment because of his previous as-
sociation with the great apes.

SPORTSMANLIKE CO-OPERATION

A short time ago there was editorial com-
ment upon the difficulties and inadequacies
surrounding the infirmary. In that article
was suggested the need of action as far as
possible on the part of the college officials
and trustees. There is another side which
appears in connection with the same sub-
ject.

Most students thoroughly appreciate the
necessity and advantages of having a college
physician to whom they are free to appear
at any time when they are troubled about
their health or upon emergency. It is atten-
tion which insures the best possible protec-
tion against ills of divers kinds.

At the same time men should not abuse
this privilege. It is a peculiar fact that most
people are never as sick as they really think
they are. Of course any one can recognize
some ailments, but others work far more
damage onthe mind than they do on the
body.

Because of the limited time and peculiar
hours allotted to it, it is necessary for the
infirmary staff to examine every man within
a certain time. Fully fifty percent of these
are not dangerously sick. Due to the neces-
sity of every man being properly examined
when he presents himself, the man who is
seriously ill must wait until later before he
‘can receive a complete diagnosis.

Out of consideration for the personnel
and sportsmanship for the other fellow it
hardly appears fair to contract symptoms
on a.moment’s notice in order to evade a
cut ‘whith might result in an unerased ab-
sence. Respect and sympathy for others is a
prime requisite.

R

THE NEED OF A CHURCH

Davidson College is an institution founded
peculiarly for the developing of young men
to carry on the work of the church, and
glorious is her history in carrying out the
plan for which she was first established. Her
sons have gone out from here to serve their
Master in the four corners of the earth. For
a single illustration of this, one needs only
to see what a large percentage of Davidson
men were taking part in the World Confer-
ence on Missions, held recently in Chatta-
nooga. But what about her future? To
maintain this high standing of the past we
send out a special entreaty to the Southern
Church.

Davidson needs a new church. This need
seems to me to be preeminent. Our campus
is beautiful and beautifully kept. Our dormi-
tories are comfortable and fairly adequate
to house the boys: We have, in the New
Chambers Building, one of the South’s finest
academic buildings. The class rooms and the
offices are among the very~best; its audi-
torium is a delight to every eye. It lends
grace, beauty, charm, and dignity to eaci

|-service held in it. All through the week the
| boys have access to this campus and these |
| buildings, which are in keeping with the

spirit of Davidson. But on Sunday morning
the scene changes.

The big bell announces to students and
townspeople that it is the hour of worship.
Immediately there is an undefinable feeling
that creeps-pver one, for the place to which
one is called) for worship, not only fails to

inspire worship, but it actually smothers the |

spirit of worship in the souls of those pres-
ent. Addition after addition has been made

to the building to accommodate the grow-

ing student body, It is ugly, inadequate, and
uncomfortable.

It behooves the Southern Church to in-
vestigate at once and see what can be done
to remedy this situation. What a tragedy
that men, six hundred of the finest of the
southland, should come to a church college
to fit themselves for usefulness in the Mas-
ter’s kingdom only to find that Church on
the campus is among the worst of the build-
ings! Instead of a closer relationship be-
tween these men and their church, a feeling
of estrangement arises and the prime pur-
pose of Davidson is being defeated. What a
tragedy that the most important part of a
man’s life, the worship of God, should ap-
pear to be of second-rate importance be-
cause of the church building! Could the
Presbyterians of the South really see the
situation as it exists, one believes that they
would erect on this campus one of the most
beautiful churches that it is possible to

build; not the most expensive, but one ‘that ,

will not detract from the spirit of worship
and one that it worthy to be called the
Church of Christ.

Albert B. McClure.

DAVIDSON’S CHIEF PURPOSE
While various problems and factors have
been keeping Davidson College before the
eyes of the newspaper reading public more
or less continuously for the last two or

‘three months, there are certainly other mat-

ters which have a far deeper reaching effect
at the present time and will have great
powers of development as regards the
future. We do not wish to diminish the im-
portance of the questions referred to above,
but we do believe that the success of the
college depends more essentially on entirely
obvious but little discussed ingredients .al-
ready incorporated in its makeup.

First, there looms the student body with
its system of internal government. Regard-
less of the amount of classical understand-
ing and scientific data provided the students,
Davidson’s paramount mission is to train
the minds of young men in such a way that
they will prove to be citizens who are well
balanced mentally, physically, morally, and
socially. Selection and environment decree
that this should be the natural result.

In its curriculum Davidson ranks among
the best. It is recognized and acknowledged
by any and every leading educational insti-
tution in the country. While the quantity or
variety of courses offered may be small, the
quality has never been doubted. In equip-
ment and faculty the college is suited for
excellent work in the Bachelor degrees of
Arts and Science.

Likewise does it excel in preparation for
graduate work, All students preparing for
law, medicine, teaching the ministry, en-
gineering, or other professions, find ade-
quate material with which to complete their
preparatory work. While a degree is of
immense value, the results derived from two
or three years in a liberal arts course are
not to bé under emphasized.

A particular field, one which was some-
what slower in coming to the front, than
others, is Business Administration. One rea-
son for this was doubtless the fact that it
had long been a custom for the average man

r)

What Do You Know
About?

Congress Quits?

The End of the World?
Soaking the Democrats?
Radio City?

The 71st Congress of the United States adjourn-
ed Wednesday, March 4th with the usual fan fare
and blowing of trumpets, and all the legislators
returned to their homes to rest from spending the
peonle’s money until a new Congress goes into

| session next December. The short, “Lame Duck”

division has now gone into history.

The last days of the life of this congress were
marked with less of the filibustering that generally
characterizes its proceedings in the off years. Al-
though no lengthy debates about nothing had held
up the workings of the Senate all during the three
months’ work, the last of the necessary bills were
scarcely gotten through many hours-before closing
time, and the usual number of unimportant small
measures were shot through during the last few
hours.

The work of this session was limited chiefly to
the message of the money bills needful for the
carrying on of the government for the next twelve
months. The chief exception to this was the modi-
fied bonus measure which Congress overwhelming-
ly passed over the President’s veto, making more
loan money available to veterans. Muscle Shoals
also came in for its annual share of discussion and
a bill on it was also passed, but the President is
due to stop it.

“I myself have been particularly careful never
to say a civil word to the United States. And they
just adore me.’—George Bernard Shaw.

The end of the World finally came. The three
New York papers, the morning, evening, and Sun-
day Worlds, which were founded by Joseph Pulit-
zer, finally were sold into the Scripps-Howard
chain of newspapers and merged Telegram to
form a new paper, the World-Telegram.

In order to bring about the sale, it was necessary
for the sons of Joseph Pulitzer to get a court
ruling enabling them to break the will of their
father. By this will, the newspaper holdings could
never be sold, but must remain ‘in the famly al-
ways, and continue to be published by the de-
scendants of that great journalist. Continued losses
on the running of the paper, however, were re-
garded by the court as sufficient reason to justify
the setting aside of the will and to transfer the
holdings Sf the World to the hands of the Scripps-
Howard chain.

The purchase price, $5,000,000, was the highest
ever paid for the intangible assets of a newspaper.
$3,000,000 of the sum is to be paid in cash, the
remaining amount to be paid out of the profits of
the combined newspapers. $500,000 of the initial
payment was given to the employees of the World
by the three Pulitzer brothers.

The World at one time was among the leading
papers of New York City, but increased competi-
tion, poor management, and lack of interest by
the owners were the causes given as leading to the
downfall of this once paragon of newspaperdom.

--“There is\nothing new in the world. Everything
that happens is nothing more or less than history
repeating itself.”.—Al Smith.

John J. Raskob, chairman of the’ Democratic
National Committee, caused a serious upheaval in
Democratic ranks by his recent stand on prohibi-
tion, announced at the late National Committee
meeting. Raskob was in favor of return to state
control, and strongly advocated that the party

| adopt it as its stand on prohibition.

This statement brought forth an uproar among
the members of the committee. Al Smith, 1928
nominee for president, was inclined to endorse
Raskob, as were a number of others. But oppo-
sition was not lacking and words flew thick and
fast all during the day. The outcome of the matter
was that it will be refered to the Naional Conven-
tion for action when it meets later.

Will Rogers summed up the situation when he
said the next day that neither party would do any-
thing definite until they found out where most of
the votes were, and then both would be for it.

“There seems to be more general interest in
Thornton Wilder, Ernest Hemingway, and Hugh

to work up in his business, much along the
lines of the “apprenticeship” method. Now a
college education with specific study is in-
dispensable for the man who plans to enter
the fields of finance. More provision within
the bounds of this department would un-
doubtedly prove valuable.

In the last analysis, Davidson isa small
school as compared to the great univer-
sities ; it will remain such. It was not found-
ed wih the idea of unlimited increase in size.
Its purpose and aim is to draw a few hun-
dred men from the best homes of the nation
each year, and to fill them with something
which can best be defined as “Davidson con-
sciousness.”

~

MUSINGS % te
MATADOR

VEREEN -4.~%
de BELL alii

I have jyst seen for the first time a genuine
painting in the so-called modern art, The artist
took me up into his studio and pointed :t out to
me. For some reason he got it mixed up with
his palette—and could hardly tell the difference.
Then he got mad because I asked him when he
was: going to finish it.

-

“Why, I have already finished it! Are you trying
to tease me? You mustn’t tease me; you know,
I’m not well.” '

I said that I was looking at a different painting
from the one he pointed out.

“Why, I have no unfinished paintings in here.”

I was up a tree then so I said that it was very
good, but wasn’t the horse’s head just a little too
square?

“Sir,” he said, lapsing into the vernacular, “’at
aint no hoss!” (He was quite beside himself and I
was close by. My hat was hanging in the vernac-
ular, I could not do other than fight my way out,
so I rolled up my fisticuffs and planted my feet to
the spot where they may be:seen til this very day
unless I was in the wrong house).

“Well, what is it, if any?” I query very queerly.
“At are Truth fishing in’ the Gulf Stream,” he
answered, still you notice, in the jargon.

“I knew that’s what it was all the time but I
still think you made that horse’s head too square.”

He jumped up and tore his heir who was playing
dolls over in the corner.

“Listen, bo, let’s me and you eat some of dis
good peanut brindle I got like mother used to
make. Those are very fine peanut brindle if 1, do
say so myself or if’n I don’t,’ he said with tears
in the back of his coat. He. wanted to get me ina
good humor, I could see—even from where I
stood,

So we sat down and started to eating the candy.
It gummed my mouth together go I couldn’t chew.

“I’m stuck on this candy,” I mumbled. a

“Gladja like it,” he mumbled back.
me]
Finally we started to talking of his picture again,

I decided that maybe it wasn’t a horse especially
if I was going to have to eat some more of his
candy. I have since learned that that is the way he
makes everybody agree that his picture is not a ~
drawing of a horse.

“You know,” I said, “that’s not a horse after all.”
“It’s not a hoss after anything. It’s just not a
hoss,” beginning to drop his dialect, which fell to
the floor. ‘But don’t feel bad about it. I knew it
wasn’t a horse. And, would you believe it, nine out
of ten people think it is a horse. I can give you a
few more statisics that will surprise you. Do you
want to hear them?”
“Yes, only I don’t care for.any more peanut
brittle thank you.”
He began:
500 modernistic pictures are painted every day.
475 critics think they are horses.
8 of the pictures are horses, though very poor
ones, or nags.
463 artists try to sell their pictures.
900 men and women regret the above fact.
82 tents could be made out of the canvas used,
and a very good plan too.
463 artists get haircuts once a week.
37 didn’t try to sell their pictures, so have no
money to get haircuts.
73°horsemen will sue! a like number of artists
for making fun of their horses.
And in conclusion, it is estimated that if the
Artists’ Ball s held as usual, lots of artists will
attend.

A murder trial at Princeton, W. Va., was heard over
the air recently when it was broadcast by a Bluetield
radio station. It was believed to have been the first
trial thus broadcast.

Walpole than there is in boxing, golfers, and ball
players.”—William Lyons Phelps.

The largest single unit of buildings in the world
is rapidly passing from the planning stage into a
more concrete form, with work on it to start soon.
“Radio City,” a large group of buildings to cost
$250,000,000 and to cover three city blocks in New
York will bear the distinction of being the largest
‘unified block of office buildings and theatres’ in
the world. It will occupy an important location in
the heart of*thfe metropolis.

Backed by the Rockefellers, the buildings will
house offices of the Radio Corporation of America,
and a number of its allies, R. K. O. motion picture
campany, Radio-Victor company, and the National
Broadcasting company. Other units, also in the
same block, will be thirty broadcasting studios of
the latter organization, two theatres for R. K. O.;
an opera house, and a number of shops and store
locations on Fifth avenue.
