THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 4, 1931

Intercollegiate News

San Jose, Calif—(Intercollegiate Press and,
Pacific Weekly)—Records a half-century old
were discovered here when workmen landscap-
ing a portion of the old College of Pacific
campus, now occupied by the Bellarmine Pre-
paratory School, cracked a_ sandstone block
which they were to use for ornamental pur-
poses on the grounds. The discovery was dra-
matically accidental, coming after a soldered
copper box, embedded in mortar, dropped out |
of a niche in the stone which had been un-
noticed since the old East Hall of the college
was torn down several years ago. j

The foundations of the old buildnig had been
searched for the records when the Catholic
institution had the hall razed after purchasing
the site of the old college campus, but at the
time the corner stone and_ its contents could
not be found.

According to authorities of the Bellarmine
School, the papers contained in the box are well
preserved and will be sent to the College of
Pacific at Stockton, Calif., as most of the docu-
ments pertain to the early history of that in-!
stitution.

The College of Pacific is the oldest college |
or university in the Far West, having been
founded in 1851, at San Jose.

Walla Walla, Wash.—(IP)—A collection of
modern coins with strange names and designs

Ancient Persia, Robert W. Rogers; Principles
of Inland Transportation, Stuart R. Daggett ;
Building International Goodwill, The Nemesis

ing the Consumer, Evans Clark; Forecasting
Business Cycles, Warren. M. Persons.

Should We Abolish
Football Scouting?

Although football scouting has come in for
much discussion and criticism during the past
few years, it is almost unanimously agreed that
among the nation’s foremost coaches that. the
practice is a benefit to the game, according to
Les Gage in an article, “Abolish Football
Scouting?” published in the December College
Humor.

The old statement that “football would be
more interesting for the spectator if the coach
would cease to worry about what the opposi-
tion will do, or fail to do, next Saturday, and
devote all his time and thought on preparation
of his own squad for the game” is disproved in
a number of instances.

General opinion on the subject, from the state-
ments of a number of coaches, bring to light
that football scouting as a practice can be suc-
cessfully eliminated. The point that the prac-
tice, properly controlled, is a benefit rather
than an evil is also made.

On the subject of killing the practice of
football scouting, Heartly Anderson, Notre
Dame’s new coach, says: “Alumni and friends,
attending other games during the course of a

In the opinion of “Rip” Miller, Navy coach,
scouting gives the weaker teams an opportunity

| to build their defenses, and tends to equalize
of American Business, Stuart Chase; Financ- |

competition.

“Chick” Meehan states: “It is not uncommon
to see ten or twelve scouts seated together in
the press box at any of N. Y. U.’s games and
I am convinced that scouting, when done in an
ethical and sportsmanlike manner, makes it pos-
sible for the public to see more interesting foot-
ball.”

Dick Hanley, Northwestern coach, also favors
the scouting system. He says: “Legitimate
scouting provides for planned offense and de-

fense, and gives us the skillful game we have |

today rather than a hit and miss. scramble.
There are advantages to be gained by all con-
cerned. What if one of my scouts reports that
a kicker is slow in getting his punts away? And
then we are successful in blocking some of them?
That kicker will profit thereby, for he will learn
{to get his kicks away more quickly. What if
| we find a ball carrier who can run in only one
direction, and stop him? That player will learn
from experience that he has neglected one
phase of the game.”

MASQUERS GUESTS OF LITTLE
THEATRE OF CHARLOTTE

Through the courtesy of the Little Theatre
of Charlotte, the cast of “Bound East for Car-
diff” were invited Monday and Tuesday evenings
to witness their performance of the one-act play,
which was given at the regular Workshop meet-

was recently presented to the Whitman College *$€480n, will not refrain from sending charts’ ing. The Masquers were well impressed with
museum by Stephen B. L. Penrose, Jr., who has }and information to the head coach at their| the presentation, especially the stage setting and

just returned from Beirut, Syria, where he has
been teaching in an American college since his
graduation from Whitman.

The museum now has a complete set of mod-
ern coins from twelve European countries, as
well as’ atl extensive collection of both ancient
and modern coins from China. Several months
ago a collection of ancient coins was presented ,
by Rey. James Lyman. They range in time from
300 B. C. to 300 A. D. and are largely Greek
and Roman.

New York—(IP)—Speaking before the ses-
sion of the Institute of Arts and Sciences here, |
Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler, president of Co-
lumbia Uhiversity, warned that nations must

develop national and_ international conscious-

ness, or go over the precipice of destruction
of civilization. The world is at an important |
climax right now, he said, with the future de- |

pending a great deal on present day leader: |
ship. |

College Galendar |

Nov. 4—Wednesday, 9:00 P. M.—Freshman en-|
tertainment in social center, ; Gal
Nov. 6—Friday, 2:30 P. M.—Football game. |
Freshmen vs. Presbyterian Junior College. |
8:00 P. M.—Mr. Douglas Booth, Interna-|

tional Relations Club speaker, will speak in|

Chambers. |

Nov. 7—Saturday, 11:30 A. M.—Davidson vs.
V. P. I, cross-country tmeet to end in front |
of stadium. |
2:30 P. M.—Football game, Davidson vs. |
The Citadel.
7:30 P. M.—Red and Black Masquers’ |
plays in Chambers. |

Noy. 8—Sunday, 6:00 P. M—Dr. John Mc- |}
Sween to speak at Vespers.

Nov. 10—Tuesday, 7:15 P. M.—Literary so-
cieties meet in their respective halls,

|
Committee to Purchase |
Equipment for Library

|
Addition of Books and Equipment for |
Library Made Possible by |
Carnegie Foundation

|

For the past two years the Carnegie Founda- |
tion has donated the college $5,000 for the ex- |
clusive purpose of purchasing additional books |
for the library. This gift was promised for a.
period ‘of five years, therefore this will make |
the third donation of the Carnegie Fund. |

Last Monday night the Library Committee |
met to draw up a list of the books to be bought |
with the 1931-32 installment. This list includes |
material for the use of the various departments |
as well as general literature. It will be ‘sub- |
mitted to the Foundation and the order filled
as soon as possible. |

Up until now a few books have been added,
most of which are departmental. These were
purchased from the fund regularly set aside by |
the college, a fund entirely independent of that
of the Carnegie Foundation. This, of course,
has not been exhausted and will be drawn upon
later to obtain more departmental material as
well as some general literature.

, The following is a list of the rather recent.
purchases :

Novels—Master Skylark, John Bennett; S.
S. San Pedro, James G. Cozzens; Susan Spray,
Sheila K. Smith; Father, Elizabeth. |
_ Non-fictional—The astern Color of the’
Bible, George H. Scherer; A Scientific: Inves-
tigation of the Old Testament, Robert D. Wil-|
son; A Lawyer and the Bible, I. H. Linton; |
The Christ of the Mount, E. Stanley Jones, |
Dynamite, Louis Adamic; The Hymalayan Let- |
ters, Gypsy Davy and Lady Ba; A History of

‘

own institution.”

lighting effect.

ly. M. C. A. SENDS LARGE GROUPS|

(Continued from pgae 1)

man, the son of its founder. The Banner Elk
\institution has twice been recipient of funds”
| from Davidson through the Y. M. C. A., which
carries on a campaign every spring to raise |
some money, so as to help some phase of home
or foreign mission work.

Among the active deputation groups were ,
Grier -Martin, who spoke to the Young Men’s
Bible Class at Barium Springs, and a group
which had charge of the Sunday evening serv-
ice at McKinnon Presbyterian Church, at Con-
, cord, Lyman Clardy was leader of this service,
at which Riley Powell gave a talk, and George
Pardington sang.

DRAMATIC CLUB

(Continued from pgae 1)

psychology of the mind. The reading of non-
sense dreams, and finding of “Suppressed De-
from which the play derives its name,
cannot help to keep it from being one of the
most screamingly clever presentations ever put
on the Davidson stage. Its cast is:

Weiesuesswue dee Miss C. Moffet
Soe Sau ee H. MacFadyen

| sires,”

Henrietta
Mr. Brewster

Mabel-<s-<<sssssss><==<= Miss M. Gaffney

}
DifectOtctusscvecsccesc veces D. Calder
Stage Manager -~-------- KE. A. Hancock

As usual, the make-up will be done by Johnny

| Marvin and his assistants.
|

lof H.

FOOTBALL USED WHEN ’CATS
DEFEATED GEORGIA TECH

(Continued from page 4)

Sherard, Manager.

Brewin, Coach.

In his letter, Dr. Sherard also threw an
interesting light on the financing of a foot-
ball team in those days when he wrote, “I
have forgotten the amounts, but financially
the team ended up in the hole. The manager
in those days was made responsible. My
recollection is that I came out a couple of
hundred dollars behind and remained so.”

Lunsford Richardson, '14, made a contri-
bution last fall when he gave to Davidson
the football used to defeat the University
of North Carolina, 6 to 0, in 1910, the first

!time that Davidson ever was victorious over
/ Carolina, and the first state championship

that a Davidson football team won.

DR. A. S. JOHNSON

(Continued from pgae 1)
do when you're alone?—for in the end all
camouflage will be swept aside, and we will
he judged by avhat we are. It is the man in
his innermost personality as he stands be-
fore God, for ‘as he thinketh within himself,
so is he.”

William Rule led the singing and Grier
Martin the scripture and introduced
the speaker. The Varsity quartet, composed
Morris, W. Rule, E. DuBose, and D.
McClain sang “My Anchor Holds.” Dr.
Walter Lingle dismissed the assembly with
a prayer.

read

“It's a

Truly Modern

Cc

igarette”

“I'm certainly grateful for Lucky

Strike. It's a truly modern cigarette for

it gives me modern throat protection.

And your improved Cellophane
wrapper is wonderfully modern,

too. It

opens without any coaxing

=a flip of the little tab and there
are my Luckies.’’

ss ne

That LUCKY tab! Moisture-Proof
Cellophane. Sealed tight—Ever
right. The Unique Humidor Pack-
age. Zip — And it’s open! See the
new notched tab on the top of the
package. Hold down one half with
your thumb. Tear off the other
half. Simple. Quick. Zip! That’s all. Unique!
Wrapped in dust-proof, moisture-proof, germ-
proof Cellophane. Clean, protected, neat,
FRESH!—what could be more modern than
LUCKIES’ improved Humidor package — so
easy to open! Ladies — the LUCKY TAB is

A famous and beloved picture star while
still in her 'teens—blessed with breath-
taking girlish beauty—could fate have
been kinder to Loretta Young? She's
the very incarnation of young loveliness.
If you have not seen her in First
National’s “Ruling Voice,” do so.

x * kK Kk kK *

— your finger nail protection.

“It’s toasted”

Your Throat Protection — against irritation — against cough

And Moisture-Proof Cellophane Keeps
that ‘‘Toasted’’ Flavor Ever Fresh

TUNE IN—The Lucky Strike Dance Hour, every Tuesday,
Thursday and Saturday evening over N.B.C. networks.

many Crops=LUCKY STRIKE

Made of the finest tobaccos—the Cream of

throat protection of the exclusive “TOASTING”
Process which includes the use of modern
Ultra Violet Rays=— the process that expels cer-
tain harsh, biting irritants naturally present in
every tobacco leaf. These expelled irritants are
not present in your LUCKY STRIKE. “‘They’re out
—so they can’t be in!” No wonder LUCKIES
are always kind to your throat.

kis Miss Young's
Statement Paid For?

You may be interested in
knowing that not one cent
was paid to Miss Young to
. make the above statement.
Miss Young has been a
smoker of LUCKY STRIKE
cigarettes for 4 years. We
hope the publicity here-
with given will be as
beneficial to her and to
First National, her produc-
ers, as her endorsement of
LUCKIES isto you andtous,

Copr., 1931,
The American
Tobacto Co. °

alone offers the

