THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 8, 1931

ALUMNI MARRIAGES

Bradford-Speir

Dr. William Zeigler Bradford, 1924 grad-
uate of Davidson, and Miss Mary Coley
Speir, both of Charlotte, were married at
the home of the bride’s parents Tuesday
night, January 6. Since completing his work
at Davidson, Dr. Bradford has graduated
from the Medical School of the University
of Pennsylvania, and did his interneship at
the Long Island College Hospital, and Belle-
vue Hospital in New York. After the honey-
moon, Dr. Bradford will locate in Char-

lotte. Mrs. Bradford was educated at Queens}

and Converse Colleges.

W. B. Bradford, Jr., ’28, a student at the
University of Pennsylvania’ Medical School,
was best man at his brother’s wedding.
Groomsmen were Dr. E. S. Faison, ’24, and
Dr. A. M. McBryde, '24, both of Baltimore,
Md., and Morgan B. Speir, Jr., '26, of
Charlotte.

Green-Peeler

Words has been recently received of the
marriage of Dr. J. Leighton Green, '25, of
El Paso, Texas, and Miss Virginia Peeler,
of Santa Monica, Calif., the marriage tak-
ing place in Santa Monica on September
27. Dr. Green did his medical work at Tu-
lane University, completed his interneship
in New Orleans, and is now associate in
surgery to Dr. Felix P. Miller, of El Paso.
Mrs. Green obtained her bachelor of arts de-
gree from Agnes Scott in 1926, and her mas-
ter of arts from Columbia University in
1928. Dr. Green’s address in E1 Paso is 1200
First National Bank Building.

Hopkins-Hamiter

Rev. Frederick Anderson Hopkins, of Luf-
kin, Texas, 1925 graduate of Davidson, and
Miss Annie Hamiter, of Chester, S. C., were
married in Chester on December 27. Mr.
Hopkins went to Union Theological Sem-
inary, Richmond, Va., for his ministerial
preparation after his graduation at David-
son, and did two years of post-graduate work

at the Biblical Seminary in New York. Mrs.

Hopkins is a graduate of ‘Queens College,
Assembly’s Training School, in Richmond,
and has been a member of the Thornwell
Orphanage faculty. Mr. and Mrs. Hopkins
will reside in Lukin, Texas, where Mr.
Hopkins is pastor of the First Presbyterian
Church. =

McAulay-Heard
“Mr. and Mrs. Judson Heard, of Atlanta,
Ga., announce the marriage of their daugh-
ter, Laura Greene, to William Aulay Mc-
Aulay, of Louisville, Ky., on Saturday, De-
cember 27, at Atlanta, Ga.”

Alumni Personals

Visitors to Davidson since the resumption
of classes after the holidays include Dr. A.
M. McBryde, ’24, and Dr. E. S. Faison, ’24,
both of Baltimore, Md.; W. B. Bradford,
Jr., ’28, and J. C. Montgomery, Jr., ’28,
both of Charlotte and second-year medical
students at the University of Pennsylvania ;
Leonard W. Dick, Jr., ’23, athletic director
of Woodberry Forest; Prof. W. R. Weaver,
Jr., ’29, of the Hampden-Sydney faculty ;
W. R. Hill, ’30, first-year medical. student
at the University of Virginia; J.B. Christen-
bury, ’30, of the Crossnore School faculty,
and R. M. Christian, ’30, of Mobile, Ala.,
en route to Richmond, Va., to continue his
work as a faculty member of St. Chris-
topher’s School.

Besides the relatives of alumni mentioned
in other columns on this page friends will
also regret to learn of the death of the
father of Dr. Oren Moore, 08, of Charlotte;
the mother of R. P. Brown, '23, of Char-
lotte, and W. A. Brown, '28, of Guerrant,
Ky.; the wife of W. C. Hutchison, ’80, of

- Rock Hill, S. C.; and the father of Hunter
Smith, ’26, of Lexington, Va., and Robert
Smith, ’31, of Davidson.

Davidson alumni recently elected as offi-
cers of ministerial associations include Rev:
Murphy Williams, 94, president of the
Greensboro association; Rev. J. M. Walker,

After graduating from Davidson in 1925,
Mr. McAulay taught school for a while in
Concord before he became connected with
the Brown & Williamson Tobacco Co., in
Winston-Salem. When this concern moved
its headquarters to Louisville, Ky., he went
with them, and is connected with the ac-
counting department. Mrs. McAulay is an
artist and obtained her education at Wes-
leyan College, in Macon, and at Columbia
University in New York. They are at home
at 2515 Napoleon Boulevard, Louisville, Ky.

MclIntosh-Halcombe

Rev. Claude McIntosh, of Tulsa, Okla.,
1926 alumnus of Davidson, and Miss Mary
B. Halcombe, of Greenville, S. C., were
married at the First Baptist Church in
Greenville on Saturday, January 3. Mr. Mc-
Intosh left Davidson to jointly pursue his
studies at the University of South Caro-
lina and Columbia Theological Seminary, in
Columbia, S. C., from which institutions he
graduated. After serving as pastor at New
Brookland, he went to Tulsa, Okla., where
he is assistant pastor of the First Presby-
terian Church there. Mrs. McIntosh attended
Converse College and is prominently asso-
ciated with the American Association of
University Women.

Rev. L. B. Gibbs, ’25, of Tiger, Ga., was
best man.

Sparrow-Barrier

Alonzo Morgan Sparrow, of Washington,
N. C., 1927 graduate of Davidson, and Miss
Nola Mildred Barrier, of Concord, were
married in Matthews, N. C., on December
21. After finishing at Davidson, Mr. Spar-
row taught for three years in the high school
at Concord, and is now principal of the con-
solidated high school at Washington, N. C.
Mrs. Sparrow obtained her education at the
North Carolina College for Women, and
has been connected with the Cannon Mills
at Kannapolis. Mr. and Mrs. Sparrow are
at home at Washington.

Morrison-Carr

“Mr. and Mrs. T. M. Carr, of Gastonia,
announce the marriage of their daughter,
Mary Louise, to Murdoch Archibald Mor-
rison, of Barbeton, Ohio, on December 27.”

Mr. Morrison graduated from Davidson in
1928, and became connected with the Seiber-
ling Rubber Company, of Akron, Ohio, and
is located at Barbeton. Mrs. Morrison was
educated at N..C. C. W., and for the past
several years has been a member of the
Gastonia school faculty. They are at home
at Barbeton, Ohio. W. H. Morrison, ’30,

_| brother of the groom, was best man.

07, president of the Mecklenburg County
Presbyterian Ministers Association; Rev. R.
E. McClure, ’20, vice-president of the New
Bern association, and Rev. W. H. Allison,
’26, secretary of the Leaksville association.

John P. McKnight, '28, on January 15
will go to Havana, Cuba, to which point he
has been transferred by the Associated Press.
He was formerly state news editor of the
Charlotte News, but last fall became con-
nected with the Associated Press, where his
excellent work merited this » promotion.

Dr. F. L. Mock, '09, of Lexington, was
recently made a commissioner of Davidson
County. He was on the County Board of
Health, but resigned, Dr. R. U. Zimmerman,
02, of Lexington, being chosen to replace
him on the health board.

Alumni Trustee Dies

J. Lee Robinson, an alumni trus-
tee of Davidson College, has been
aptly described as a victim of the
1930 financial disaster. His life was
one of normalcy and service in the
community of Gastonia, but with

‘the failure of the bank of which he
was president, his mind was bur-
dened with worries, and the hard-
ships inflicted upon others through
the closing of the bank’s doors was
evidently too much for him to bear,
for last Saturday he took his life.

Although not an aluninus he was
chosen two years ago for a short
term as an alumni trustee, and last
commencement, was _ renominated
and elected for a four-year term.
He was rendering a viauable serv-
ice to Davidson in the advice that
he was offering, and he will be
misséd by the board.

Among his survivors are three
sons, all alumni of Davidson, Ralph
S. Robinson, ’23, Memphis, Tenn.;
A. S. Robinson, ’26, of Gastonia, and
J. Lee Robinson, Jr., ’28, of Phila-
delphia, Pa.; Sam A. Robinson, '99,

of Gastonia, is a brother.

Births

John D. Laws, ’25, and Mrs. Laws, of
Columbus, Miss., announce the birth of a
son, John D., Jr., on December 3.

Knox Johnstone, ’26, and Mrs. Johnstone,
of Mocksville, announce the birht of a daugh-
ter; Elizabeth Carroll, on November 12.

R. A, Brand, Jr., ’27, and Mrs. Brand,
of Charlotte, announce the birth of a daugh-
ter, Martha Jane, on December 14.

Found

E. E. Holdaway, of Branchville,
S. C., has found a Davidson College
ring that belongs to a member of
the class of 1929, He writes that he
found it in Winston-Salem three
months ago, and will be glad to re-
turn it to the owner, if he will
write and tell him the initials en-
graved inside.

ALUMNI

DEATHS

Death took its toll of Davidson College
alumni immediately preceding the holidays,
five of them dying over a period of about
two weeks. The death of T. G. Coltrane,
26, has already been recorded, and the
names and a brief account of the lives of
four others is given below:

N. Z. Graves, ’68

Nelson Z. Graves, of the class of 1868,
died at his home in Philadelphia, Pa., on
December 7. His death was the result of a
fall sustained two weeks before. Mr. Graves
was a widely known paint and varnish man-
ufacturer of Philadelphia. He was a native
of Clinton, N. C., but had not lived there
since 1862. He was known as the father of
Cape May, N. J., which he developed, and
at the time of his death was president of

Engagements

“Mr. and Mrs. W. C. Byrd, of Charlotte,
announce the engagement of their daughter,
Lucy Bryant, to William Speight Adams,
Jr., of Swannanoa, the marriage to take
place in February.” Mr. Adams is a 1926
graduate of Davidson, and a former resident
of Charlotte. He is now connected with the
Beacon Mills, of Swannanoa, N. C.

A Complete Service
forSchool Publications

Yanuals
Meanearzines
Catalous

dieu Books
Queen Crly Pr intinalo.

Charlotte 2.

————————

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA»
Founded 1812. Jointly owned by the Synods of Virginia, North
Carolina, West Virginia, Appalachia HAS — -
A Distinguished Faculty
Nineteen Buildings, on a
Fifty Acre Campus
A Moderate Endowment, and
Many Scholarships
For Catalogue and information, address
Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., President

the Cape May Real Estate Co., and N. Z.
Graves, Inc.

Mr. Graves was noted for the manner in
which he befriended boys from North Caro-
lina who were endeavoring to get a start
in Philadelphia. In a signed article appear-
ing in the Charlotte Observer after his
death, one of those whom he had helped
wrote glowingly of this service.

Rev. R. C. Morrison, ’85
Richard Columbus Morrison, 1885 alumnus
of Davidson, and for the past 37 years a
pastor of Presbyterian churches in North
and South Carolina, died at the Columbia
Hospital, Columbia, S. C., on December 8,
At the time of his death he was pastor of
the Presbyterian Church at Fountain Inn,
S. C. Immediately after leaving Davidson,
he spent a while in Florida in business, and
was later located at Morven as a merchant
before he entered the ministry. Nineteen
years were spent in North Carolina in va-
rious churches, and 18 in South Carolina.
Among the survivors are Dr. R. W. Mor-
rison, ‘16, who is connected with the exten-
sion department of the University of North
Carolina, with headquarters in Asheville.
Green Penn, ’21 f
Green Penn, 1921 alumnus of Davidson,
and one of the prominent young citizens of
Madison, N. C., died at his home in that
town on December 4. Heart trouble was the
cause of his death. After leaving Davidson,
he entered the business field and was the
founder, president and majority owner of
the Gem Dandy Garter Company. He was
active in social and civic affairs of Madison
and was a member of the Rotary Club.

Seven Alumni Meetings In
Four Different States Are
Set For Immediate Future

Birmingham and Atlanta Dates
Have Been Definitely Accepted
—Others Are to Be Held in

Florida, South Carolina and
a Georgia City

DAVIDSONIANS TO ATTEND

Large Number of Davidson Alumni
in Several States Will Be Ex-
tended Invitations

Two out-of-state alumni trips,* which will
include seven local chapter meetings in four
different states, are now being planned by
the alumni secretary for the month of Jan-
uary and early part of February. Before
the Christmas holiday season, preliminary
plans were made for one of these itineraries,
and this week work was begun upon an-
other.

The first trip will include alumni meet-
ings in Birmingham, Atlanta, and Rome.
The Birmingham alumni of Davidson have
never met before, and 30 or more alumni
in that city and surrounding section are be-
ing invited to a gathering on January 15.
Ernest Milton, alumni secretary, will attend
this meeting, and will remain in Birming-
ham for a meeting of alumni secretaries of
institutions in Alabama, Georgia, Florida,
North and South Carolina and Virginia.

Plans are that Mr. Milton will be joined
in Atlanta on January 19 by a member of
the faculty or administration for a meeting
of this chapter, which is one of the largest
in existence. Over 100 Davidson men in the
Georgia capital and nearby will be extend-
ed invitations. It is expected that the fol-
lowing night these two representatives will
meet the alumni of Greenville, S. C., though
a definite ‘acceptance of this suggested date
has not been received.

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Da-
vidson, will attend a series of four meetings
being arranged for him in Florida and
Southern Georgia. He will visit these chap-
ters at the conclusion of a series of lectures
he is to conduct in the vicinity of Tampa
and St. Petersburg. ‘

Officers of the Southwest Florida, Central
Florida, Northeast Florida and S. G. N. F.
(South Georgia-North Florida) chapters
were all written Monday. Southwest Flor-
ida includes Tampa, St. Petersburg and
other cities nearby. This meeting would be
held on January 30. Central Florida pivots
around Orlando, to meet on January 31.
Jacksonville is the place of the Northeast
Florida meeting on February 2, and Thom-
asville, Ga., is in the heart of the S. G. N. F.
alumni chapter.

Lists of alumni residing in the various
localities are being mailed out by the alumni
secretary, and should the dates: be accept-
able, notices will later be mailed the alumni
from the secretary’s office, supplementing

the invitations they received from the prési-
dents.

Garland Court

Printing and Engraving
of
Every Description

J. A. CANNON
311 Watts

STANDARD PRINTING CO

Charlotte, N. C.

tt

