THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 18, 1931

Reprinted Article Tells
Campus Church History

Paper Gives Account of Dedication
Ceremony of Church at Com-
mencement Exercises of 1885

IMPRESSIVE SERVICE

Interesting Manuscript Saved for
Many Years by Mrs. Paisly

(Editor’s Note: The following article is
reprinted from The North Carolina Presby-
terian of June 17, 1885. The Davidsonian is
very much indebted to Mrs. Paisley for per-
mission to use this.)

Saturday, June 6, was Commencement Day
at Davidson College village. It was unlike
other commencement occasions, however, as
it was not an ingathering of a great multi-
tude to celebrate the exercises connected with
the annual closing of the college; but it was
literally a “commencement,” a beginning of
a new era in the history of this time-honored
community, which has had an existence for
nearly half a century, yet never before. en-
joyed the worship of God in a building dedi-
cated to His service. Previous to this time
the congregation had attended the college
preaching in the “Old Chapel,” so familiar. to
all who have been students here.

About three years ago Rev. J. F. Latimer,
D.D., after his remarkable zeal and success
in church building at Ramah and Hunters-
ville, conceived the idea of starting a church
edifice at Davidson College. The people glad-
ly sympathized in the movement, having long
felt the need of a pastor, who would go in
and out among them, mingling with them
in their times of sorrow and of joy, for while
Davidson College has been blest with pulpit
ministrations of the highest order, in the
preaching of the various presidents, from Dr.
Morrison to Dr. Hepburn (then president)
who have given us the marrow and _ fat-
ness of the Gospel, and whose faithful, earn-
est presentations of the truth and kind min-
istrations in times of sickness and death the
people gratefully acknowledge, still with the
heavy duties of the presidency, it was im-
possible to meet all the details of pastoral
work.

When Dr. Latimer left us, about $2,400
was secured for the building. Then Col. W.
J. Martin, with his accustomed persistence
in good works, secured other funds from
the community, and visited many of the larg-+

er churches in the state, soliciting aid to |

complete the enterprise. To his laborious ef-
forts are due the finishing of this “holy and
beautiful temple of the Lord.” Not quite one
year from the laying of the corner stone, the
church was dedicated, virtually free from
debt, at a cost of over $6,000.

Dr. J. F. Latimer was unanimously chosen
by the congregation to preach the dedicatory
sermon, which he did in a vigorous, able
presentation of the resurrection of Christ as
the “corner stone” of our faith. “If Christ
-be not risen, then is your faith vain.” Rev.
R. H. Morrison, D.D., the father of David-
son College, its first president, was invited
to assist in the baptism of the daughter—
the new church. He was too feeble to attend,
but sent us his benediction and his prayers
for the presence of God’s Spirit.

Rev. Charles Phillips, D.D., was also in-
vited most cordially by the community as
one who had done faithful pastoral work
while professor in the college. The doctor’s
big heart swelled up with loving response to
this request, but he was too unwell to come.
The Rev. William W. Pharr assisted in the
service. Rev. P. T. Penick preached at night.
Revs. P. P. Winn and L. K. Glasgow were
present; also Rev. P. W. Williams of the
Methodist Church. The Communion of the
Lord’s Supper was administered on Sabbath
to a full house, and a Sabbath School jubilee
followed in the afternoon, with a sweet serv-
ice of song, and several addresses to the
children.

Never were a people more filled with grati-
tude. to God for His blessing on an enter-
prise so full of promise for good to this com-
munity and this college.

The citizens of the village have evinced
great enthusiasm for the work. The “Ladies’
Aid Society” contributed $300 for the pews
and carpet. The Children’s Society raised
funds for the chandelier and bracket lamps,
which reflect great credit on their juvenile
efforts, aided of course by their friends. The
Sabbath School presented a handsome Bible.
An elegant walnut pulpit and table were the
gifts of a venerable friend: and his daugh-
ter, as a memorial offering; they were once
members of this church, and our aged elder
rejoiced in being present on this occasion.
Another Father in Israel (President Mor-
rison) presented a baptismal bowl.

Thus nobly have this people demonstrated
their delight in their new house of worship.

ATHLETIC AWARDS
(Continued from page 1)

After the athletic certificates had been
presented by Dr. J. M. Douglas, formerly
director of athletics, to all those men who
made their letters for the first time, Prof.
F. K. Fleagle awarded to J. H. Ramseur of
Lincolnton the gymnastic trophy for the best
work in the gymnasium during the past year.

L.'D. Adcox, of Pine Bluff, N. C., was
awarded the physical improvement trophy
by Col. W. R. Scott. Adcox added 9 3-4
inches to his body since he entered Davidson
last fall, to barely win over W. T. Thomp-
son, Jr., of Richmond, Va., also a Freshman,
who added 9 1-4 inches. G. W. George, of
Decatur, Ga., was the winner of the track
decathlon trophy by. mustering the greatest
number of points, and this was presented by
Prof. W. W. Wood.

Twenty-nine Davidson athletes won let-
ters during the football, basketball and wrest-
ling seasons, three managers were presented
their letters, two service letters were award-
ed, a minor letter went to managers of Fresh-
man sports, and varsity cheer leader was
given his public recognition. The various
athletes and others recognized include those
in football:

Capt. W. W. Fraley, Barium Springs; J.
M. Proctor, Lincolnton; H. S. Brown, Mt.
Ulla; L. S. Pierce, Spencer; L. S. Raker,
Lexington; H. S. Covington, Red Springs:
J. M. Wagner, Statesville; Thad Brock, Ba-
rium Springs; G. L. Mathis, Rural Hall;
C. T. Parker, High Point; U. B. Gardner,
Decatur, Ga.; W. A. Mason, Belmont; Uf
D. McCall, Salisbury ; T. W. Brohard, Graf-

May the God of the everlasting covenant
abide in this holy place. May His Spirit
dwell in the hearts of all who worship here,
enriching them with every Christian grace
so that they may abound in good works,
growing more and more into the fikeness
of His dear Son, until they shall be meet
for the inheritance of saints.
J. R. B.

(Professor J. R. Blake, of the Physics
Department. Copied from a paper kept by
Mrs. Paisley.)

ton, W. Va., and D. M. McQueen, Little
Rock, S. C.

Basketball: Capt. W. B. Goodson, Lin-
colnton; Dean Rusk, Atlanta, Ga.; J. Proc-
tor, Lincolnton; G. L. Mathis, Rural Hall,
and D. G. Martin, Covington, Ga.

Wrestling: Capt. P. M. Conway, Hender-
son, Ky.; G. W. Vick, Jenkinjones, W. Va.;
E. L. Gorham, Lake Charles, La.; J. L.
Tyack, Winston-Salem; J. F. Preston, China,
and B. B. Taylor, Jr., Baton Rouge, La.

Varsity managers receiving awards were
A. W. McLean, Lumberton, football; W. B.
Hancock, Bluefield, W. Va., basketball, and
C. N. Burch, Memphis, Tenn., wrestling.

Service letters were awarded to C. H.
Goodykoontz ,of Bluefield, W. Va., and to
R. G. Wilson, of Marion, N. C., in football
and basketball, respectively, for their faith-
ful attendance and conscientious work in the
practices for the past four years, but whose
participation in these sports was not suffi-
cient for them to come in the category of
regular lettermen.

Minor sports letters went to J. A. Jones,
of Laurinburg, as manager of Freshman
football team, and to J. G. Berry, Griffin,
Ga., as manager of the Freshman basketball
five.

George E. McClenaghan, of Florence, S.
C., was awarded his certificate as varsity
cheer leader during the past year.

REQUIREMENTS MADE
(Continued from page 1)
complete in at least 20 quarters of the games

scheduled for the season.

Basketball—The varsity, D in basketball
shall be awarded to those members of the
varsity basketball team wha participate in at
least 20 halves of the games scheduled for
the season. x

Baseball—The varsity D in baseball shall
be awarded those members of the varsity
baseball team who participate as follows: In-
fielders and outfielders must play in at least
12 games; pitchers and catchers, in at least
five games scheduled for the season.

Track—The varsity D shall be awarded
those members of the varsity track team who
score ten or more points in competition with

son.

Managers—The varsity managers of foot-
ball, baseball, basketball, and track shall be
awarded the varsity D.

Wrestling—The minor sports D in wrest-
ling shall be awarded those members of, the
varsity wrestling team who compete in at
least two matches with varsity teams of other
colleges during the season and who score
either by fall or time decision.

Tennis—The minor sports D in tennis shall
be awatded to the six members of the varsity
tennis team who win highest rating through
open tournament competition and who by
virtue of their consistent play maintain the
privilege of competing in more than half of
the matches scheduled for season.

Golf—The minor sports D in golf shall be
awarded to the four members of the golf
team who win highest rating through open
tournament competition and who by virtue
of their consistent play maintain the privil-

‘ege of competing in more than half of the

matches scheduled for season.

Managers—The minor sports managers
shall be awarded the letters of their re-
spective sports. The Freshman managers of
football, basketball, baseball, and track shall
be awarded the regulation D with two-and-
one-half-inch M sewn inside.

Class numerals shall be awarded to mem-
bers of the Freshman teams upon recom-
mendation of the coaches and with the ap-
proval of the Athletic Council.

Mere corfiptiance with minimum require-
ments does not constitute sole basis of award.
Every letter-man is expected to satisfy tra-
ditional standards of sportsmanship, sustained
effort, co-operation, and personal honor with
respect to all training pledges and require-
ments, or he forfeits his eligibility for such
award. No letter is awarded without the rec-
ommendation of the head coach and‘ without
the approval of the Athletic Council.

MR. WHEELER
(Continued from page 1)
stroys valuable farm land and also the silt
is washed down the streams and fills up the
dams. It is predicted that the new Boulder
dam will be filled with silt within the next

varsity teams of other colleges during sea-

fifty years.

Considering the third subject, protection
of the wild things in the forests, Mr. Wheel-
er said that there was a great need of trained
men for handling game in game preserves.
He remarked that a great deal was being
done in preserving wild life, States have
begun to set aside portions for state forests
and state game preserves.

His last subject was the human use of
the forests. He said that he regretted very
much the fact that some people go into the
forests, destroy the game, cut flowers, break
down trees, and disfigure the spot with rub-
bish. He also said that the young people,
through the Boy. and Girl Scout organiza-
tions, were being taught how to enjoy and
protect outdoor life. “In New Hampshire,
18,000 boys and girls, at a cost of $200,000,
go to summer camps,” remarked the speaker.

Mr. Wheeler ended his talk with the poem,
“Trees,” by Joyce Kilmer. This poem was
beautifully illustrated with colored slides.

“Poems are made by fools like me,
But only God can make a tree.”

SOPH’S HOUSE PARTY
(Continued from page 1)
During the meal entertainment was furnished
by Misses Bertha Burch, Margaret Johnson,
Nina Cranford, and Catherine Milton;
Messrs. “Doodler Brothers,” “Stumpy” Sugg
and “Goof” Clark, and the Sunnyland Ser-
enaders. Miss Burch entertained the ‘audi-
ence with an exhibition of tap dancing. Miss
Johanson, who has performed here before this.
year, delighted the gathering with some beau
tiful selections on her accordion. Miss Nina
Cranford, well known to a Davidson audi-
ence, and Miss Catherine Milton played and
sang for the pleasure of the “assembly. The
famous .“Doodler Brothers,” Dus Enochs
and Woody Caligan, members of. the class
of 1933, and who are heard over WBT, the
Charlotte station, every Tuesday night, sang
several selections, which met with immediate
approval. “Stumpy” Sugg and “Goof” Clark
put on a comical skit. Clark told a bedtime
.story accompanied on the flute by Sugg. As
already mentioned the Sunnyland Serenaders,
Davidson's own orchestra, furnished the

music.

© 1931, Liocett & Myzzs Tozacco Co.

e +

measure.

aN

YOUR EYES MAY FOOL YOU

| BUT

MILDER...AND
BETTER TASTE

YOUR TASTE /e/I/s the Truth/

.

Which is bigger—the air-
plane's landing wheel or the
setting sun? Guess first, then
check your guess with a

