Vol. XIX

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 11, 1931

| fo) °
casein GS AVICISOMIAM | wees
sSALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS” ‘

No. 9

Maj. Booth Delivers Address
on “Britain’s Foreign Policy”

Noted Lecturer on Politics and Eco-
nomic Affairs Speaks to Large
Audience Here

PRESENTED BY DR. LINGLE

a

Speaker’s Visit to Davidson Sponsored
By International Relations Club

Last Friday evening, November 6th, at 8
o'clock, Major C. Douglas Booth, noted lec-
turer on politics and economic affairs, gave an
address in Chambers Auditorium on the Brit-
ish Foreign Policy. The speaker was intro-
duced by Dr. T. W. Lingle, professor of Euro-
pean History at Davidson. In his introduction
Dr. Lingle said that about five centuries ago
England was coming out of the Middle Ages,
and the great problem that was confronting
the people and government at that time was
the problem of the supplanting of royalty with
nationalism. This fact was finally accomplished
in a high degree. It is this fact of national-
ism that has caused so many of the European
‘wars. These latter years have been years of in-
tense nationalism, and now the problem that
confronts us is the effort to fori this national-
ism into a greater, deeper internationalism. Dr.
Lingle brought out the fact that before we are

(Continued on page 5)

Fraternities Sponsor
Week End Houseparty

Dramatic Club Plays and Entertain-
ment in Charlotte Constituted
_ Program

The house parties given by the various fra-
ternities during the past week-end were among
the most successful social affairs of the year.
They were attended: by a large number. of
guests, and were featured by a number of en-
tertainments. The Davidson-Citadel football
game, a group of plays presented by the Red
and Black Masquers, and an_ entertainment
given at the Hotel Charlotte constituted a full
program for the week-end.

The guests included the following :

Kappa Alpha: Misses Elizabeth Lewis,
tanburg, S. C.; Edna Harris, Converse; Adel-
aide Foil, Concord; Ruth Whitton, May L.
Smith, May D. Marion, Charlotte; Billie Sapp,
Concord; Claudia DeWolfe, Hollins, Va.;
Amelia Webb, Charlotte; Elizabeth Gilmore,
Converse; Elizabeth Fluck, Tarboro; Dorothy
Hand, Charlotte. -

Beta Theta Pi: Misses Susan Calder, Dor-
othy McClintock, Charlotte; Mary McKay,
Caroline Ivey, Concord; Effie Murphy, Rock
Hill, S. C.; Caroline White, Converse; Edith

(Continued on page 6)

Initial Edition of Yow!
Makes Its Appearance

Spar-

“Birthday Issue” Marks Beginning of
Bell’s Editorship

Last Saturday the “Birthday Issue” of The
Yowl, Davidson's humorous magazine, appeared.
As explained on the editorial page, entitled,
“Editorially Speaking,” it received its appelation
from the fact that practically an exact year
had passed since the initial edition was printed.

The Yowl, as many know, supplanted The
Chameleon, an entirely literary magazine, just
as the latter was about to fade out. It was
intended that a part of the magazine should be
humorous and the smaller part literary. But it
so happened that in this “Birthday Issue” not
a great amount of literary articles were written,
and consequently not many were printed. How-
ever, four beautiful poems by Woodrow Cali-
gan made up for the absence of the other liter-
ary works,

The art contributors were: Skip Brown, orig-
inator of the cover page; Vereen Bell, editor-
in-chief; Reeves Pope, Tom Wood, Kemp Lind-
say, E. L. Powell, L. D. McPhail, George Gul-
lette, Geddy Monroe, and W.-C. Ragin, 731.
And then, of course, there was the usual dis-
play of jokes, puns, and features. There was
a list of seventeen advertisers who helped to
defray the expenses of publishing such a maga-
zine.

Taken as a whole, the edition was unusually
good and forecasts other good issues of the
magazine that will follow.

Sigma Upsilon Gives »
Bids to Eight Men

At a recent meeting the Davidson chapter

the purpose of recognizing student literary tal-
ent.

The following men were invited to join the
fraternity because of the interest and ability
that they have shown in literary matters, and
the work that they have done in that line: W.
W. Franklin, D, G. Stephenson, D. G. Calder,
©. S. Spencer, S. S. Wiley, E. A. Hancock,
C. F. Myers and R. 1. McCallie.

W. W. Franklin is a member of the Kappa
Alpha social fraternity and a feature editor of

itor of the annual last year, and is a member
of Delta Pi Kappa.

D. G. Stephenson is a member of Phi Delta
Theta social fraternity and is a feature editor
of The Davidsonian. He is also a member of
Delta Pi Kappa, the International Relations
Club, and assistant etlitor of the annual.

D. G. Calder is a member of the Beta Theta
Pi social fraternity and a member of the var-
sity tennis team.

(C.
in literary endeavors, and was a member of

S. Spenser has shown marked proficiency

the Freshman tennis team and is at present on
the varsity tennis squad.

S. S. Wiley is a member of the Sigma Alpha
Epsilon social fraternity and is literary editor
of the annual, He was also recently elected
president of the Honorary Fraternity Council.
He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Scabbard

and Blade, International Relations Club, Omega
‘Phi Alpha and Delta Pi Kappa.”

Ik. A. Hancock is a member of the Kappa
eaeue social fraternity and is a junior editor
of the annual. He is also assistant basketball

manager, and a.member of the Red and Black

; Masquers.

R. L. McCallie is a member of the Kappa
Alpha social fraternit¥ and is one of the man-
aging editors of The Davidsonian. He is also

on the staff of the annual. He is a member of
Delta Pi Kappa, International Relations Club,
of the Y. M. C. A. Board of Control, of the
Student Council and is a member of the track
team.

C. F. Myers is a member of the Sigma Alpha
Epsilon social fraternity; member of the Re-
porters’ Club, Delta Pi Kappa, a member of Le
Cercle Francais. Myers is a managing editor

torial staff of the annual. Myers is also a mem-
ber. of the varsity tennis team, and one of the
vice-presidents of the Y. M. C..A.

3ids were issued recently, and the men will

be initiated Wednesday night.

PROF. PEARSE OF DUKE
TO LECTURE THURSDAY

Second Lecture of Series Is to Be
Entitled “Tropical Nature”

Thursday night at 7:30 p. m., a lecture will
be given in Chambers Auditorium by Prof. A.
S. Pearse, of the Department of Zoology of
Duke University. The subject of his lecture will
be “Tropical Nature,” and it will be illustrated
with colored lantern slides. Prof. Pearse is the
second of a series of lecturers furnished by the
Faculty Committee on Lectures. As the reader
remembers, Dr. Mims was the first of the se-
ries.

Before Prof. Pearsé came to Duke in 1927, he
had heen assistant professor of zoology at Har-
vard, University of the Philippines, and the
University of Wisconsin. He has] presented
papers before the Academy of Science of both
Wisconsin and North Carolina. He has also
published two books, General zoology and Ani-
mal zoology, besides several articles in scientific
magazines.

Prof. Pearse has traveled very widely, doing
zoological work in foreign countries, Japan,
Indo-China, and India. He has recently been
working in Nigeria Those who have heard him
say that he is an easy speaker, and has a great

knowledge of his subject.

The Davidsonian. He was also advertising ed- |

of The Davidsonian and a member of the edi- |

| (Continued on page 6)

REV. R. W. MILES

of the Sigma Upsilon national honorary fra- |
ternity issued eight bids. This fraternity is for |

Fall Y Services to
Be Led by Dr. Miles

_ Dr. Miles, of the Westminster Presbyterian
Chureh, Lynchburg, Va., will hold a series of
evangelistic services under the auspices of the
Y. M. C. A., beginning next. Tuesday morning
at chapel. All the morning periods will be
shortened five minutes in order to have a fifty-
five-minute period for this meeting.

This announcement should be of especial in- |
terest to all Davidson men, first because of the
, blessing we are expecting to receive, and second,
Miles is a former Davidson man,
'being a “fighting wildeat” when he played foot-

because Dr.

‘ball here during his college course. It is inter-
esting to note that he was the first secretary
of the “Y.” Besides these things, he is greatly |
interested in young people and is in demand as
a speaker at Virginia colleges.

Last summer he was a representative from
the Lynchburg Rotary Club at the International
Rotary meeting at Geneva, Switzerland. Still |
another pleasant surprise awaits the students |
on the campus. At this time, Albert McClure,
who graduated from Davidson last year, will be
present to lead the singing.

When MeClure attended college was
member of Omicron Delta Kappa, and was one

he a
of the most popular men on the campus. He was
| also a class officer and won the Sydney Sullivan
vaward. He is at present a Junior at the Union
Richmond, Va.

Seminaiy in

Davideon Aigranius Leads
Y.M.C.A. Vesper Service
Sunday Evening, Nov. 8th

Dr. McSween, President of Presbyte-
rian College, Was Guest Here
for Week-end

MANY STUDENTS ATTEND
Theme Describes “God’s Call to Youth
of Today”

| Business men who write me about young
men aren't interested in their athletic ability,
whether they have gone over big with the ladies,
or even about their scholarship record; but if
they will do to trust and have character that
rings true,” Dr. John MeSween, president of
Presbyterian College, told those attending the
“Y" vespers last Sunday evening.

His subject. was Call to ‘the Young
Man Today.” was made Gideon
whom God called to lead the people back to the

truth. The speaker pointed out that in this ma-

“God's

Reference to

terialistic age folks often forget God. He bg-
liéves that things will not return to their nor-
mal state until people turn back to Him. He
expressed the belief that God calls college men
to lead the people and solve present-day pred
lems.

“This is the greatest age ever struck in hu-
man history,” he said. For his part he would not
have “the good ole’ days” back if such a thing
were possible. He considers people living today
to he a privileged class. He reminded the audi-
ence that it used to be considered a luxury to
go to college. That 80 per cent of today’s lead-
ers come from the one per cent of those who
had the advantage of going to college.

He outlined five problems that make condi-
tions at present difficult: first, there is a revo-
lution in thought; second, a revolution in poli-
third, religion; tourth,
what is right, and fifth, the relation between
sexes,

Dr. McSween claims that all these problems
must be readjusted. This can be done by bring-
ing back vital breath to the religion of Jesus

tics ; a revolution in

Christ, maintaining that “it will only come,
when it means a living loyalty to a living
Lord.” He told of a student that once said

that loyalty to Jesus Christ was a beautitul
idea, but that it couldn’t be applied in religion.
The speaker declared that loyalty that couldn't
be applied to religion was worthless.

‘Davidson Beats the Citadel

in Last Home Game of Year

Dr. Chas. E. Scott
Speaks at Davidson

Dr. Charles Ernest Scott, of the American
Presbyterian Mission in

Tsinanfu, China, was
a visitor on Davidson campus during the past
week-end. He spoke in chapel on Friday, paint-
ing a vivid picture of present conditions in the
Orient, and on Monday concerning the needs
in that section of the world. On Sunday after-
noon he addressed the Student Volunteer Group,
and filled the pulpit of the Davidson Presby-
terian Church on Sunday evening.

In his sermon Sunday evening he used as a
text Matthew 28:18-20, placing the emphasis
on the four penetrating “alls” of Jesus—‘“all
power, all nations, all things, and alway.’ Dr.
Scott stated that would this text as
Wagner used the various motifs in his operas,
as a central theme, to bind the whole into a
complete unity.

“There are several attitudes,” said, Dr. Scott,
“which we may take to this scripture. The first
is indifference, A man may say, ‘Why should “I
he interested in my country’s needs when there

he use

are so many necessities in my city? And why

be interested in the necessities of my city when |!

there are so many in my community ?? and the

| logical conclusion comes right down to the per

son himsell. This is grossly selfish. It is the
last word in crampiness. And then I shall never
the the Lindbergh
beacow in Chicago: ‘The light that shines far

forget inscription on
thest shines brightest at home.’ With our “pres
ent laxity in the Christian chureh, we should
this.

“We cannot safely assume an indifferent atti-

remember

tude to Asia. You'd better be interested in Asia,

one thousand million humans «who reséifble aj

voleano just before eruption. The fatal
honie plague comes from Manchuria, The ‘flu’
crept out of China. Napoleon said, ‘China is a
lion asleep.’ No man can live totally to him-
self and all this anarchy is leading on to who
Think of what it would

Soviet Russia with German science and all the

knows what? mean:
manpower of China and the Kast. Can we safe
lv ignore it?

“Then we can influence Asia to defiance by
duping them commercially, cursing them diplo-
matically with shady deals and harming them
militarily. There is even a more dangerous way,
however. It’s bad enough to kill them, but it
is much worse to spoil what Christianity now
exists in China. One of the leaders in the goy

ernment of China was a student in a large
American university. He and two Chinese

friends decided to investigate the Christian  re-
ligion. In order to do this they made friends
with a minister's son who lent them books en
tirely detrimental to Christianity, and led them

to believe that it is merely a superstition. Now |

these three Chinese students are big men in
the present government of that country.

“But then there is the final attitude, the right
one, which we may take to the Orient. The atti
tude ‘to touch in order ‘toe bless.’ This is best
proved in the lives of missionaries. Dr. G. W.
Fitch of Shanghai started out printing on a
small scale, and through slow progress began

printing the ‘Chinese Recorder,’ the first great |

mission paper. He taught Chinese Christians |
his trade, and the boys-he taught are now at
the head of the great G@ommercial Press in

Shanghai, one of the greatest influences for good

in the Orient, both in its output and in the ad-j

ministration of business.”

“LIBRARIES” IS THEME
USED BY DR. CUMMING

English Professor Gives Chapel Talk |

of Foreign and American
Libraries

On
ming
titled
ming’s speech follows :

in chapel, Dr. W. Ps
delivered a most interesting speech, en-
A condensation of Dr. Cum

last Friday Cum

“Libraries.”
“*Man has two types of knowledge,’ said Lord

Macaulay, ‘that which he carries in his mind and
that which lies where he can put his finger on

‘it, in books.’ The second type is of equal or

greater importance than the first; thus we find
our great need for libraries, which are surely
the comcomitants of civilization.

“Nowadays libraries are comparatively com-

(Continued on page 5)

In Saturday’s Contest Wildcats March
Over Cadets for 14 to 7 Victory

5,000 FANS SEE GAME

Gardner and Whitfield Were Defense
Stars, With King Offensive Star

With the aid of two perfect touchdown plays
and a heads-up attitude throughout the game,
Davidson defeated The Citadel of Charleston,

SiG, 1457;

The touchdown plays which did, the work
were used at the beginning of the first and
third quarters. At the opening kick-off Buck
Mills took the ball for Davidson on his own

five-vard line and, behind perfect interference,
ran the chalk sideline for 36 yards to the Cadets’
38-yard line. Peabody made a yard through the
the Mills to

King, was knocked down identical pass

line and on next play, a
The
worked on the next play, however, and
took

for a touchdown

pass,

play

King Mills’ pass and galloped 25 yards
King’s placement was good,
Davidson's second score came at the begin-

ning of the second half. Jennings fumbled the

bu- |

‘mon place things and are readily accessible to McIntosh

kick-off, which he had run back for 15 yards

o his own 27, and Davidson recovered. Pearce

fmade a yard, and Mills passed to King for

eight yards. Then King made a first down on
his own 16-yard line. Mitchell intercepted the-

pass from Mills on the Cadets’ 8-yard line, and

air | returned to the 18, where he fumbled and the

[ball was recovered by Mills. On the next play
Pearce knifed through right tackle and reversed
field the

Sing’s extra point by placement was good.

his HCTOSS goal line standing up.

Citadel’s score was the result of an 8l-yard
drive at the beginning of the fourth period. This
drive began on the 19-yard line, and was fea-
tured by Jennings’ end rtin of 20) yards, and
two passes, Jennings to Quarterman, and Jen-
nings to Willard, for t!oand 19 yards respect-
ively, whigh put the ball on the one-yard line.
The Cadets were also aided by 20 yards in pen-
alties. MeIntosh bucked the line for the score,
and kieked the extra point.

Davidson clearly had the upper hand through-
out the first half. Besides the opening touch-
down, the first period's only feature was Pea-
hody’s run off left tackle for 19 yards.

In the second period the ball was always “in
Citadel’s territory, but the ‘Cats’ only threat,
when they advanced the ball to the 20-yard line,
was stopped, and onthe next play McIntosh
slipped off tackle for 26 yards.

As the second half opened, things happened
lightning fast and when the dust cleared away
Davidson had seven more points to make ‘the
14-0. From then on Citadel took the of-
fensive. Citadel the ball from her own
14-yard line to Davidson's 40, but the mareb

score

drove

was stopped there.

The ast quarter was by far the most bitterly
fought. It was featured Citadel's 8l-yard
drive for a touchdown, Mills’ 47-yard. return of
ithe kick-off and King’s 34-yard jaunt around
| With Citadel threat-

pend,
ening to score again throughout, the outcome

by

and the game ended

of the game was ever in doubt until the final
| whistle
For sure consistency, MeIntosh of the Cadets

Was outstanding, He always seemed to be good
for four or five yards; he, however, must share
the spotlight with the fast-stepping Larkin Jen=~
nings. This triple threat) always kept the ’Cats
worried, but never quite succeeded in getting
loose, On the defense Holland and Metz shone
for the

Mills and

for Davidson as far as ground gaining was con-

Visitors.

King gave the best performances

leerned, and Pearce was very consistent in his.
punting

Although the Bulldogs made twelve first
downs to Davidson's four, the ‘Cats always,

seemed to have the situation well in hand. The -
| Cadets gained 179 yards from scrimmage, to
Davidson's 127, The Cadets also completed six
passes, Which was twice as many as Davidson.

Line-up:
Citadel Position Davidson
King LE. Raker
Holland ats Wagner
McCraw LG. Mathis
Mitchell Center Gardner
Watts R.G. Conway
Hobbs R.T. Whitfield
Willard RoE: Brown
Whittington Q.B. King
Jennings * L.B. Pearce
Metz R.B. Peabody
F.B.

Mills
(Continued on page 6) : ;
