THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 18, 1931

:*

GET READY FOR
WAKE FOREST

THE SPORTS PARADE

BIG PEP MEETING
TUESDAY NIGHT

The Tar Heels must feel immensely sat-
isfied with themselves by virtue of their vic-
tory over the Wildcats last Saturday, and
they have every right to be, for they needed
a victory to offset the defeat administered
them last year by Davidson, but we do not
feel that the margin of victory was indica-
tive of the relative strength of the two
teams. Those who saw the Wildcats win
over V. M. I. and the Citadel will readily
admit that the playing of the ’Cats against
Carolina was by no means up to par.

What was wrong last Saturday we do. not
know. Passes were incompleted, line bucks failed
to gain, and end runs were smeared disastrously.
No appreciable gains could be discerned from
returning punts, and what little ground gained
from returning kick-offs was lost on downs.

The one redeeming feature for the Wild-
cats,was the unusual and superb punting of
Charlie Pearce. Time and again his quick
kicks caught the Tar Heel safety man un-
awares, the ball going over his head and
frequently rolling out of bounds deep in Car-
olina territory. One particular punt we ob-
served rolled out on the Tar Heel one-yard
line, after being kicked for 53 yards. Pearce
seems to kick his punts further in each
game than in the preceding one. Perhaps he
will be able to kick over the Wake Forest
goal line from his own ten by Thanksgiv-
ing.

That Carolina put up a great game no one
will hesitate to admit, but the score was not
what it should have been under ordinary con-
ditions. But so much for that. No use crying
over spilt milk. Undoubtedly Wake Forest will
suffer because of the very fact that the ’Cats
were defeated by Carolina, Every team has its
off days and last Saturday was the last one
of the year for the ’Cats.

Incidentally, the entire Demon Deacon
squad had an off day last Saturday—off the
Wake Forest campus, but all over Chapel
Hill like a wet sheet.

Though the newspapers seemed to have over-
looked the fact, in our opinion Buddy Gardner
played one of the best defensive games he has
played this year. Furthermore, we predict that
many all-state selections will include his name
at center. Jack Wagner and Bob Johnson shared
honors with Gardner, each playing well . de-
fensively.

As this issue went to press, there remained
ten days in which to prepare for Wake For-
est. Errors made in the Carolina game were
pointed out to the players last Monday, and
methods taken to correct them. Both coaches
seemed to believe that the most serious
weakness of the Wildcats lay in their block-
ing. To this we might add tackling.

The Demon Deacons have scouted every game
Davidson has played this year, and should by
now know the Wildcat plays even better than
the Davidson squad. It seems that the Deacons
are anxious to keep clean their record of not a
defeat since 1920 by Davidson. So there you are.

It was observed that a loud cheer arose from
the Carolina stands, as the Davidson-Duke score
was announced. Perhaps Jake Wade might find
some food for thought in that.

Kittens Meet Duke

Freshmen on Friday

The Wildkittens will leave Thursday for
Durham, where they will clash with the mighty
Freshman team of Duke, Friday at 3 o'clock.
The ’Kittens are said to be in tip-top condi-
tion, and have been showing improvement in
both offense and defense, in scrimmage with
the varsity. The team will no doubt miss the
performance of Johnny MacKorell, flashy back,
who survives a simple fracture of the leg, re-
ceived in scrimmage two weeks ago.

The Blue Imps, having defeated the mighty
eleven of State, prove themselves to be decid-

edly the ‘strongest team faced by the ’Kittens |:

this season. They also defeated
a hard-fought battle.

This exhibition ends the season for the Fresh-
men. The games thus far show victories over

Oak Ridge in

Cheerleaders Expect to
Arouse Famous Wildcat
Spirit for Deacon Game

FIGHT! WILDCATS! FIGHT!
FIGHT! WILDCATS! FIGHT!
FIGHT-FIGHT, FIGHT-FIGHT-FIGHT!
FIGHT! WILDCATS! FIGHT!

Such will be the sounds on the Davidson cam-
pus next Tuesday night, when the entire stu-
dent body gathers for the last pep meeting for
the football season. So great are the yells ex-
pected to be that the meeting will not be at-
tempted to be held indoors for fear that the
roof of Shearer would be raised by the noise.

Instead the pep meeting will be held in front
of Chambers. Or rather it will begin there and
end after the Wildcats have finished putting
the water on the Demon Deacons for their bap-
tism on Thanksgiving Day.

After the students have been enthused at the
meeting in front of Chambers, they will form
in a shirt-tail parade and march behind the band,
which will be in uniform, through the campus,
visit various professors’ homes, and terminate
the ceremonies on the Freshman field.

At the Freshman field a bon fire will be
used to help heat things and arouse the spirit—
that old WILDCAT SPIRIT—to new heights.
And should anyone lift his spirit so high that
he becomes hoarse, there will be cough drops
galore to help soothe his pain.

The cheerleaders, Captain Kuykendall and his
assistants, Sugg and Allen, are doing their
darndest to make this the greatest Wildcat
Spirit raising pep meeting that Old Davidson
has ever heard. Placards and banners are being
prepared to enliven the campus with the spirit,
and Tuesday night they hope to embed every
student with at least a spark of the spirit.
Once again Dr. K. J. Foreman will be on
hand to give the student its annual pep talk
before the Wake Forest game. Those who have
heard Dr. Foreman know that he will have
something interesting and worth while hearing.
Every student is expected in front of Cham-
bers next Tuesday night at seven o'clock to
start that Wildcat “eleven” on its way to vic-
tory over the Demon Deacons, so that they can

win at least one game from Wake Forest for
“Monk” and “Tex.”

the teams of Wofford, Presbyterian Junior Col-
lege, and Oak Ridge, and one defeat from the
hands of the State Freshmen.

Probable line-up for Davidson:
Left end

CWARLIE PEARCE-HALFEACK

Charlie Pearce, whose punting featured the
Davidson-Carolina game.

Davidson Fresh Defeat |
Central High Harriers

The Charlotte High runners were no match
for the Davidson Freshmen last Thursday, when
they were beaten by the latter, 18-37. Although
most of the Freshmen are inexperienced in the
game of cross-country, they are rapidly learn-
ing both by experience and the teachings of
Coaches Pritchett and Whittle. Much develop-
ment was shown both in style and stamina, as
they placed three men in front of the Hornets.
McFadyen and Morris tied for,an easy finish
in the time of 11 minutes and 24 seconds. Gul-
lette came close behind, leading Thompson, the
first of the Charlotte men. Rose created much
excitement among the spectators as he sprinted
for a 6-inch advantage over Beard fof’ fifth
place. :

ee eee eae, Morgan ; ; >
Weetthtackle: cess asec a Sewers Due to the way in which the Freshmen
Wettyauatd sc id eae Potter showed up in that race, it is hoped that they
Center Pee ee acs Vee will be able to get a meet with the State Fresh-
Rightegtardieess cn ue ere B. Fort |™en next week,
Rightitackle: sone een oe ane Hand| The order ‘of finishing was as follows: Mor-
Righteendesss:9 onto ee Morris|tis and McFadyen (tied for Davidson), Gul-
Ouaiterbacks tar ee ee West | lette (Davidson), Thompson (C. H.), Rose
Rightehalfback; - 22-2250 Wingfield | (Davidson), Beard (C. H.), Richardson (Da-
Weftehaltbacky 232 soa ey Smathers | vidson), Barber (C. H.), Ramsey (C. H.), and
Ul acles esse a a Hutchins | Edwards (C. H.).
° ee °
A. Gerskov — The Tailor
SCARLET TANAGER
SUITS MADE TO ORDER
Sodas — Tobaccos — Sundries Cleaned 40¢ Besenen 200
Remodeled and Altered
Sundaes — Hot Drinks All Work Guaranteed
Phone 9145 Globe Pressing Company
fa ta
e
Davidson Theatre
MONDAY AND TUESDAY
“RICH MAN’S FOLLY”
GEORGE BANCROFT
WEDNESDAY
“ARE THESE OUR CHILDREN?”
THURSDAY
“WAY DOWN HOME”
SETH PARKER
: FRIDAY
“CUBAN LOVE SONG”
LAWRENCE TIBBET
. SATURDAY
“RIDERS OF THE PURPLE SAGE”
it fa

On last Wednesday, November 11, the David-
son Freshmen won an Armistice Day battle
from the Oak Ridge Military Institute eleven
in the Memorial Stadium there by the score
of 18 to 6. The Wildkittens scored in every
quarter with the exception of the first.

The opening period was scoreless, although
the Freshmeri made a strong drive which car-
ried them within Oak Ridge’s ten-yard line.
The Cadets made the first touchdown of the
game in the second quarter after blocking a
Davidson punt on the latter’s nine-yard line.
McCachren faked a pass and skirted end for
the score. The Freshmen retaliated soon after
when Hufford threw a short forward pass from
the Oak Ridge 18-yard line into the hands of
Morris for a touchdown. In the third quarter,
Wingfield knifed his way through the Oak
Ridge defense for seven yards and a score. after
the Wildkittens had recovered a Cadet fumble.
Davidson’s‘ last touchdown came in the fourth
period on a long pass from West to Hutchins,
who: stepped across the goal line.

The Freshmen outplayed Oak Ridge in every
phase of the game and won decisively.

Score by periods:

Davidson: cseasecoscsess 0 6 6 6—18
OBKSRidge ses eee as 0 6 0 0— 6
Officials: Referee, Perry (Elon); umpire,

Belding (Iowa) ; headlinesman, Wohl (Prince-
ton).

Juniors Beat Sophs
In Class Game, 19-15

Last ThurSday night in a very heated con-
test the Juniors beat the Sophomores, 19 to 15,
in the second game of the inter-class basketball
contest. At the end of the first quarter the
Sophomores were leading, 8 to 2, and at the end
of the half the score was tied, 8 to 8, and was
still tied at the end of the third quarter, 13
to 13. The Juniors finally broke through and
won the game.

The starting line-up was as follows:

Sophomores Juniors
Holland Center Campbell
Lafferty Forward Calhoun
McLean Forward Manson, M.
Manson, A. * Guard West
Halverstadt Guard Bettis

Substitutions: (Sophomores) Reed for Mc-
Lean, Smyre for Reed. (Juniors) Boucher for
Bettis, Myers for Manson, Coble for Campbell,
Bradshaw for Calhoun.

The games for this week will be Freshmen
vs. Juniors and Sophomores vs. Seniors. The |
officials- for Thursday’s game were Mathis, ref- |
eree, and Bob Glasgow, timekeeper. |

Wildkittens Defeat Oak _
Ridge on Armistice Day

Deacons Working to :
Down Wildcats Again

Wake Forest has scouted nine Davidson Col-
lege football games this fall. And, by the way,
that’s all the Wildcats have played so far. Evi-
dently Pat Miller and his cohorts are deter-
mined that they will know every trick that the
Davidson players possess, and will be primed
for anything that the Wildcats attempt against
them in Charlotte next Thanksgiving. :

The Demon Deacons have every right to be
proud of their long string of veitories or ties
with the Wildcats, and nothing has been Icft
undone in the Baptist stronghold this fall to
prepare the Deacon eleven for the Davidson
formations on Turkey Day. It was in 1920
that Davidson last tasted a victory over Wake
Forest, and that taste has long ago lost its
savor. It has been replaced by one .of defeat,
whith, as some have expressed it, “ain’t so

good.”

According to The Gastonia Gazette, Wallace
Wade, coach of the Duke University eleven,
went to the dressing room of the Wildcats after
the Duke-Davidson game hére and told the
players that they had outplayed his boys in the
0-0 upset of that day. Later, in a conversation
with Dr.,Lingle, continued the same paper, the
Duke coach stated :

“I have often heard of Davidson and
ft football team here, and this is the
first time I have had the chance to see
the team in action. You have a good
team, Doctor.”

Plenty of Southern Conference teams want
Younger right now, but he likes Davidson. And
does Davidson like him? Well, last fall they
signed him up for five more years. Tie that
if you can.

Y Complete Service
forSchool Publications

Janu
Dauaze

Catalous

dre U Books
Queen Cily Pemting@o.
Charlotte DC
BOS

Coste hed

o-
o

©.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Faculty of Distinguished Scholars
Student body drawn from forty-two Colleges and Universities.

Alumni in every Synod, in every Presbytery, and on every
Mission Field of the Southern Presbyterian Church.

Catalog and information on request.

o

o.

@

ing! Over 25 years of manufacturing

athletic union suits and shirts and

For
Men and Boys

TLL nnn

HANES IS “MASCULINE”
FOR “UNDERWEAR”

Specialists in male comfort determine the styles and measurements, and
place every seam in HANES. Soft, long-wearing materials!

combine to make the greatest underwear values you've ever seen.

HANES Gold Label Elastic-knit Light-weight Union Suits are excellent
for the changeable weather of autumn and spring—ideal winter garments
for men who work indoors. Luxurious in materials and finish. Low in price.

If you wear summer-weights the year through, be sure to see how

HANES UNDERWEAR

HANES

Expert tailor-
HANES low prices! All

experience!

shorts are made better by HANES.

For

Every Season

