THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 21, 1931

—

rs

sae = smn

5

———

New History Magazine

Published by Clarence
Griffin of Forest City

Initial Issue of North Carolina His-
torical and Genealogical Record
Will Appear Soon

Forest City, N. C.—The initial issue of The
North Carolina Historical and Genealogical
Record will be mailed to subscribers soon. This
is a quarterly magazine, published at Forest
City, and is devoted to the recording and dis-
semination of North Carolina history and gen-
ealogy, and more particularly to local history.

The new magazine will feature local history
‘articles, unpublished letters and manuscripts and
genealogical material pertaining to North Caro-
lina. Every section of the state will be repre-
sented in each issue, thereby making it a mag-
azine for the entire state, rather than one of
local interest.

Contributors to the initial issue include Col.
Fred A. Olds, Miss Gertrude Carraway, Louis
T. Moore, Mrs. Maude Minish Sutton and a
number of other well known North Carolina
writers of historical subjects. Genealogical
sketches appearing in the first issue include
those of the Wiseman family, the Hutchins,
and others. In all, a total of nine articles ap-
pear in the October issue, covering a wide
range of subjects, periods and sections of the
state.

The magazine is published by Clarence Grif-
fin, county historian of Rutherford County, and
news editor of the Forest City Courier, of For-
est City. Mr. Griffin has long been active in
historical and genealogical work, and is recog-
nized as one of the outstanding historians of
North Carolina. He was vice-president of the
North Carolina Literary and Historical Society
in 1929, ; oS
_ The subscription rate of The North Caro-
lina Historical and Genealogical Record is $1.00
per year, Due to the expenses incident to pub-
lishing such magazine, no sample copies will
be mailed. Single copies may be procured for
35 cents each. Subscriptions should be received

by September 15 to insure receipt of the first
issue.

BRILLIANT ATTACK SHOWN

(Continued from page 1)

a pass, but the pass did not connect and fell
over the goal line. The Wildcats’ last bid for a
score had failed. The half was brought to the
20-yard line, and Duke completed a long pass
which gained them 35 yards. Jones was forced
out of bounds on Davidson’s 45-yard line as
the game ended.

As statistics go, both teams were about even
and each displayed a great game of football,
and fought to the very finish.

The line-ups:

Duke (0) Pos. Davidson (0)
Crawford LE. Raker (c)
Bryan ISI, Wagner
Horton LG. Barrier
Adkins Center Gardner
Werner RG. Conway
Friedman R.T. Whitfield
Rogers RE. _ Johnston
Erschler Q.B. King
Brownlee L.H. Pearce
Mason RH. Peabody
Brewer (c) FB. MacQueen
Score by quarters:
Duke 2 0 0 0 0—0
Da vidsont sash 0 0 0 0—0

Substitutes: Duke, Shock for Werner; Mul-
lin for Erschler; Hyatt for Rogers; Laney for
Mason; Erschler for Mullin; Mason for Laney ;
James for Hyatt; Rogers for James; Carpenter
for Friedman; Abbott for Brownlee; James for
Rogers; Means for Carpenter; Sink for
Brewer; Beleu for Abbott; Laney for Mason.

Davidson, Mills for MacQueen; Flinn for
Pearce; MacQueen for Mills; Pearce for Flinn;
Mills for MacQueen.

Officials: Cheeves (Georgia), referee; Se-
bring (Kansas=Aggies), umpire; Frew (W.
and L.), head linesman; Hackney (North Car-
olina), field judge.

THREE DEPUTATIONS

(Continued from pgae 1)

service, accompanied at the piano by Henry
Hodgin.

The third group of men visited the Sherrill’s
Ford Presbyterian Church and had for its lead-
er, White of the Freshman class. J. W. Ful-
ton preached the regular Sunday morning ser-
mon there, and W. A. Pate talked to the Bible
class.

On Monday night, October 19, three members
of the student body went to Charlotte to fur-
nish entertainment at a Hi-Y banquet being held
there. They were Henry Hodgin, pianist; Brad-
ford McLean, tap jdancer, and. Frank Tucker,
soloist.

The Y. M. C. A. is planning an extensive
Program of deputations this year to represent
the college in’ various churches throughout the
state. This has always been an important phase
of Y work and more emphasis is being placed
on it than ever before.

Mr. Ely is one of the oldest and most prom-

Book Review

HARD TIMES—Richard T. Ely. The Mac-
Millan Company, New York. 1931.

It is quite appropriate and indeed not uncom-
mon to have one’s attention drawn to the fact
that we are now passing through a period of
great economic depression. This is indeed not
the first one, but they come as stepping stones
in our economic history, in each case a step to
greater prosperity and a more highly devel-
oped economic system, which runs smoothly
for a while and then something catches and
jams up the works, causing the people to suffer
while repair work is being done. In Richard T.
Ely’s book, Hard Times, he goes over the whole
machinery, pointing out its good points and its
bad ones as well.

But before taking very seriously what any
man says, we should first look over his cre-
dentials and see with what authority he speaks.

inent political economists living today. In his)
student days he obtained a number of degrees
and studied in the leading universities of the
world. He is at present the head of the Ameri-
can Bureau of Industrial Research; he was the
first president of the American Association for
Labor Legislation; he has been one of the
founders and at the head of a number of other
institutions in some field of economics and is the
author of several books on economic problems.
For thirty-three years he was professor of -po-
litical economy at the University of Wisconsin,
and now holds the chair of research of eco-

nomics at Northwestern University. This, I
think, is ample to show that he is a man who
is recognized in his field as a leader.

Recently at every Kiwanis Club meeting or
every gathering of business men the speaker of
the hour explained to his audience the reason
for this depression, how bad it is, and when it
will be over. But these speakers usually differ
in the diagnosis in the remedy of the situation,
for they are only talking about an idea that they
have, or some theory that they think might
work. But not so here, Mr. Ely has _ lived
through over three great panics, and has de-
voted his life to the study of not theories only,
but the actual facts gathered from a vast amount
of research work and statistics.

First of all Mr. Ely discusses the general
cause hard times with illustrations taken
from American economic history. Next in a
very clear and reasonable way he discusses the
various economic institutions and attributes to
each the part it plays in either bringing on or
correcting hard times. Mr. Ely points out causes,
which he calls the “seen” and the underlying,
unobserved causes, which he calls the “unseen.”

The fact that hard times are followed by a
greater economic development and unsurpassed
prosperity seem to show that depressions are
usefulin the building of the economic system
for the future and that in the long run they
are heneficial to society taken as a whole. But
what about the individual who makes up the
society? His lifetime is but a short run com-
pared with many men past the prime of life,

of

who have built up a great business and expect
it to furnish a living for the rest of their days,
suddenly finds it all swept away.

Mr. Ely presents to us a plan, based upon
experiences, one taking into account the .prdb-

—

OOO

able changes to come, by ich the frequency
and severity of hard times may be reduced,
provided everyone plays his part.

—C. E. MOORE.

HOME-COMING ADDRESS

(Continued from pgae 1)
solid reality. “We also have fourteen new ten-
nis courts, a golf course, and an efficient laun-
dry, the latter which has a fine button puller,
collar shredder, and a sock absorber.”

The Davidson faculty member was likewise
of the opinion that his colleagues had improved.
“The faculty,” the speaker continued, “are more
numerous, are younger on the. average, better
clad, and more athletic than they were fifty
years ago. They are also better housed; for-
merly one could distinguish a professor’s house
by the one which needed paint, and now the
homes are artistically planned and built. The
professors were in former times only from
South Carolina and Tennessee, but now even
Minnesota and New Hampshire are repre-
sented.”

Then turning his compliments to the alumni
themselves, he said, “They are healthier, as
evidenced by their interest in athletics; wealth-
ier, or they would have protested against the
increasing of the annual dues to five dollars;
and wiser, for many of them are now married,
and their ranks are enlarged yearly by a hun-
dred college seniors; if this latter will not in-
crease their wiseness then nothing will.”
closed his address with
the serious expression of the future of the col-
lege. “I hope,” he concluded, “that on the ap-
proach of her two hundredeth, as well as her
hundredth, birthday, Davidson's sons may still

Professor Foreman

say, ‘These are the best years of her life :
these are the golden years.’”

After the conclusion of the address, President
Lingle made some announcements, and the
alumni remained for a short business meeting.
Then a group picture was taken of the alumni
on the steps of Chambers Building. Following
this a luncheon was served to the alumni in the
banquet hall of Chambers.

TWO PLAYS WILL BE GIVEN

(Continued from pgae 1)
Lemore, Both Simpson and Miss McLemore are
from the Davidson High School, and both fea-
tured in last year's production, “Go Slow,
Mary.”

The second play is “The Monkey’s Paw,” a
longer drama in three scenes, in which Miss
Adele Arbuckle, Johnny Marvin, Grainger
Williams, Fred Hellegers, and Horace Ervin
are cast. The story is woven about a mystical
monkey’s paw which is charmed by a Hindu
priest to grant three wishes to three different
people. An honest old English couple and their
fond son become the third owner and put the
paw to uses which will be revealed on Friday
night.

“The Mayor and the Manicure” has been
under the direction of W. A. McKnight, a mem-
ber of the Key Club, who took an important
role in “The Perfect Alibi” last year, while
H. W. Ervin has assumed responsibility for the
other. Today both plays will be staged before
Mr. Thomas B. Humble, director of the Little
Theatre of Charlotte, who have just produced
“Let Us Be Gay,” for his criticism. Mr. Humble,
who has expressed an interest in Davidson
dramatics, will be present Friday night with

some of the cast of the Theatre’s latest play.

“Give me-
Lucky Strike

Every Time”

“My throat is all important to me.
No harsh irritants for yours truly.
Give me Lucky Strike every’ time.
And pat yourself on the back
for your new Cellophane
wrapper with that tab which
makes the package so easy

ThatLUCKY tab! Moisture-Proof
Cellophane. Sealed tight—Ever
right. The Unique Humidor Pack-

age. Zip—And

new notched tab on the top of the
package. Hold down one half with
your thumb. Tear off the other

Dorothy Mackaill is the same fasci-’
nating, rollicking personality in real life
asthe parts she plays. Watch for Dorothy
in her next First National Picture,
“Safe In Hell.”’ There is never a dull
moment in any of First National's
pictures starring that Mackaill girl.

* eK K KK

it’s open! See the

half. Simple. Quick. Zip! That’s all. Unique!
Wrapped in dust-proof, moisture-proof, germ-
proof Cellophane. Clean, protected, neat,
FRESH!—what could be more modern than
LUCKIE®S’ improved Humidor package —so
easy to open! Ladies—the LUCKY TAB is

—your finger nail protection.

“It’s toasted”)

q
Your Throat Protection = against irritation= against cough

_ And Moisture-Proof Cellophane Keeps
that “Toasted” Flavor Ever Fresh

TUNE IN—The Lucky Strike Dance Orchestra, every Tuesday,
Thursday and Saturday evening over N.B.C. networks.

Made of the finest tabaccos—the Cream of
many Crops= LUCKY STRIKE alone offers the
throat protection of the exclusive “ TOASTING”
Process which includes the use of modern
Ultra Violet Rays =the process that expels cer-
tain harsh, biting irritants naturally present in
every tobacco leaf. These expelled irritantsare
not present in your LUCKY STRIKE. “‘They’re out
—so they can’t be in!”” No wonder LUCKIES
are always kind to your throat.

* Is Miss Mackaill's
Statement Paid For?

You maybe interestedin
knowing that not one
cent was paid to Miss
Mackaill to make the
above statement. Miss
Mackaill has been a
smoker of LUCKY STRIKE
cigarettes for 6 years.
We hope the publicity
herewith given willbe as
beneficial toher and to
First National, her pro-
ducers, as her endorse-
ment of, LUCKIES is
to you and to us.

Copr., 1931,
The American
Tobacco Co.

