iS)

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly “‘For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

be in the hands, of the
Mond4y.

...-Editor-in-Chief
Business Manager

Articles for publication must
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m.,

EDITORIAL STAFF

Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
itor
é itor
Exchange Editor
.Associate Editor
- i Editor
Associate Editor

GUERRANT-

---Managing
Managing
Managing

<er-mspsonoN

BUSINESS STAFF

A. M. MANSON...........-...-.-- Assistant Business Manager
A. L. MEBANE ..-Assistant Business Manager
. W. WHITTED.-- .--Assistant Business Manager
Wy. R. MORROW....-:.-..---.---—------- Subscription Manager
W. T. JOHNSON......-.-------.---2---------------------- Solicitor
Kaen NW Alscscce ---Solicitor
i B. WOOTTON - ---Solicitor
A, H. MANSON.....------------------------------- Solicitor
REPORTERS’ CLUB
sf HITEH EAD c2000 canes nce ccconcnsccancessnowce President

t om Ay | apeeaa Vice-President
Wy By UMUDLLISSiseecsco csc ee ees Secretary-Treasurer

R. H. ALDERMAN F. H. COVINGTON

B. B. TAYLOR L. S. GAMBLE

G. FE. BAILEY R. E. LORRAINE

J. E. BOYD E. L. POWELL

S. P. PRESTON R. PRATT-THOMAS

W. R. WARD A, F. SCHENCK

0. CASALI W. M. THOMPSON

L, W. CLARDY, ee W. T. THOMPSON

JACK WILLIAM J. A. HUNTER

% OCTOBER 21, 1931

“Most of us know our own limitations, but not
many of us can afford to make.a public confession
of them.”’—Sir Charles Higham.

PARAGRAPHICS

Congratulations to the whole Wildcat team for
that splendid game Saturday! They certainly ex-
hibited that well known Wildcat spirit throughout
the game.

D
Some of the credit for the fine showing should go
to the student body for its fine backing and especially
to the cheer-leaders for their work. That was one of
the best pep meetings ever held at Davidson.
D
It would be an omission to say nothing of the
Freshman game Friday. It looks as though the var-
sity should have some good material coming up for
next year.

D

Dramatics are taking their place on the campus
now. Stunt night was a success and “The Monkey’s
Paw” will be presented by the Red and Black Mas-

quers at an early date.

D

Several new types of heads are now being used in
the paper. The staff hopes that these will lend a varia-
tion which will make the publication more interest-
ing.

D ©

Captain Pritchett’s recital of the poem on’ the
origin of the name “Wildcats” was enjoyed by all
those who were at the pep meeting. :
D.

We would like to get the straight of the ruling made
last year about the holiday that is usually given for
one football game away from the “Hill.” The team is
going to need support in Chapel Hill on the 14th!

D.

FRIENDS

“Friends thou hast, and their adoption tried,
grapple them to thy soul with hoops of steel...”
Hoops of steel! How connotative of true, lasting
friendship this should be, and how unfortunate it
is that so many of these so-called friendships are
secured by bonds of flimsy fabric, severing upon
the least infringement on the harmony and con-
cord of friends.

And what are these hoops of steel? To some
they represent petty and temporary associations
in which the persons discover a common interest
along some lines of activity. To others they sig-

_nify bonds of fraternal organizations, oaths com-

pulsory to membership. To still others, they con-
note admiration for another’s intellect, wit, or
physical prowess, etc.—and in this relation, one
frequently observes a one-sided association in
which the one gives all, the other—nothing. These
friendships are superficial, materialistic, and
fragile, for' the real friendship comes as a result
of having penetrated to the very depth of. an-
other’s soul, becoming acquainted with previously
unexpressed convictions, discovering powerful
emotions, and in being able to evaluate the true
worth of a man. Again, a true friend should be
one who would share in a man’s happiness and
sympathize in his sorrow. This friendship devel-
ops from having gone through some experience,
happy or sad, with another.

To distinguish a real friendship from the com-
mon every-day type, it is necessary for the two
friends to become separated for a time. Invariably,
when this*happens, one finds that he has expected
too much. No more does he have anything in
common with his friend-of the past, for the things
which bound them previously no longer hold se-

cure, and having no knowledge of the ideals and >

dreams of his friends of days gone by, he will not

be interested in fa other’s new ideas, new opin- .
. dons, or new tho

ghts.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 721, 1931

But the true friends will find it easy, to con-
tinue their past relationships, each being eager to
learn of the other’s new-born convictions, new
ideals, and present situation of past illusions. For
them it is easy to gather up the threads of former
friendships and rebind them more securely than
ever.

Thus we see that one should beware of super-
ficial friendships, sacrificing all of them if neces-
sary in order to keep a few real ones. “Grapple
them to thy soul with hoops of steel.”

B, B. SUGG, JR.
THOMAS ALVA EDISON

If there was a character in the world whom
young people most desired to be like it was the
world’s greatest inventor, Edison. That is a high
tribute to pay to anyone but he rightfully de-
serves that and all the other honors that have
been given him.

Edison’s life reads like the most interesting of
story books. He started his career as an inventor
on a train where he was supposed to be selling
papers. In the process of completing an experi-
ment he upset a powerful concoction, which set
fire to the car in which he had his newspaper
business and also his laboratory. For this he was
fired. Since then his life has been a continuous
line of successes; first in the telegraph, then the
electric light, the phonograph, the telephone, the
moving -pictures, the sound pictures, and others
too innumerable to namewIt has been said that
Edison has given more to civilization than any
other one man in the history of the modern world.

At his death last Sunday morning, the senti-
ment of a nation of admirers was set loose. The
world cannot fully realize the loss which it has
suffered in the death of this great man,

From his closest friends we learn that he was
not only a notable, a great man, but that he was
a real human being, and the best friend a man
could have. His works have been recognized by
countless medals and other forms of recognition,
but he has never worn the medals nor shown the
other awards; only an example of his modesty
in all things.

So we mourn with the rest of the world the
loss of one of its most outstanding and valuable
citizens.

EXCHANGE

The Parley-Voo, of Converse College, tells us that the
Cotillion Club of Converse, a social club at that college,
is thinking of obtaining Guy Lombardo, Ben Bernie, or
some equally popular orchestra, to play-for one of their
dances this year. The important «lances planned by the
club this year are those at Hallowe’en, St. Valentine’s
Day, and the Senior Prom in April. As these famous
orchestras are making a tour of the South there is a
possibility of the club securing one of them for one of
the above named dances.

The Carolinian, the newspaper of N. C. C. W., informs
us that the young Progressive leader, Senator Robert M.
LaFollette of Wisconsin, addressed the students of that
institution on Friday, October 8. The subject of his mes-
sage was “What Progressives. Are Fighting For.” This
man is the youngest Senator in Congress since Henry
Clay.

From Old Gold and Black, of Wake Forest, we find
that Dean Daniel B. Bryan, dean at Wake Forest for a
number of years, flayed the practice of bumming, or the
habit of ride-begging as he calls it.

“Most of you have spent all of your lives at home,

and when you graduate from college, you will either’

returii there or to your own domiciles. Why, then,” he
asked, “should you put in jeopardy this one golden oppor-
tunity in your lives by cluttering up the highways to
beg a ride home?”

According to The Agonistic, the newspaper of Agnes
Scott College, their annual, called the Silhouette, won
the cup given by the Southwestern Photoprocess Com-
pany to the girls’ school in the southeastern section re-
ceiving All-American rating. Qne thousand points would
indicate a perfect publication and Agnes Scott was only
a comparatively few points below this with 910. Penelope
Brown, editor of this year’s annual, urged the students to
strive to win the cup for the next two years so that the
cup would become theirs permanently. Agnes Scott suc-
ceeds the Florida State College for Women, who won

¢

it last year. Georgia Tech won the boys’ school award’

for 1930. The All-American Honor was confetred~on
the Silhouette by the National Scholastic Press Associa-
tion.

The following quotation is taken from The Enskine
Mirror, the paper of Erskine, whom we meet on the grid-
iron Saturday: : ;

“How often are we told, it is the little thing in life
that counts, it is not quantity but quality, expensive
things come wrapped in small packages. It seems true
in our vocabulary that the little words sink deeper, they
are weightier and have more thought.

‘See, ‘Well,’ and ‘Can’ are all small words of three
and four letters, but still they convey big things; if not
separately then perhaps in combination.

“The visual power of man is one of his greatest. Can
he not train himself to see the good things just by look-
ing for them? He must look far ahead, see the problem
clearly before he is able to respond.

“If he sees the work to be done, the deed to be ac-
complished, he must will to do that thing. The right atti-
tude or mind set bears weight on the possibility of its
being done. If one is willing, then he can—the two men-
tioned above are requisites for the ‘canning’ or accom-
plishment. When there is a will there is always a way.”

What Do You Think?

The youngest son of a British lord was recently
found shelling peas and peeling onions in one of
London’s best hotels. Other members ‘of the nobility
are performing similar humble tasks and one at least
has been drawing the unemployment dole.

In the old days that sort 6f thing would have been
construed as a shocking example of the evil results
of dissipation. Today it means no more than over-
production in the title market. There is a glut of
English peers, knights, and the lesser nobility—far
more of them than the democratic traffic will bear.

The old nobility may never come back, but it will
be doing a far, far better thing by going to work. In
fact, by going to work it may remove the stain of
the jibe that while its founders could make their
mark but could not write their names, the present
title-holders can write their names but cannot make
their mark. Some of them may do just that when
compelled to earn a living.

Figured on a business basis, as it should be, it is
said that the cost of producing cotton is twelve or
thirteen cents a pound, That being true, there is
absolutely no hope of the farmer getting near like
cost out of this year’s crop. In time, with improved
business conditions the world over and a big reduc-
tion in acreage, cotton may sell as high as twelve
cents, but the best thing the cotton farmer can do
now is to plan other crops and other ways to make
up his loss. It can be done, and the time to start is
now.

Owen D. Young, member of the President’s emer-
gency relief commission, has asked the American col-
leges to play at least one football game to devote the
proceeds to charity, after expenses have been de-
ducted. Properly arranged games between rival col-
leges would result in an immense sum to be contrib-
uted to the cause of charity, and many_institutions
have already expressed a willingness to fall in with
Mr. Young’s suggestion. Other sums for charity will
be raised by the motion picture people who plan to
make contributions from their proceeds over a Cer-
tain period. Sport and amusements will lose nothing
in doing their bit, as Mr. Young expresses it, for the
needy of the country.

The death of Thomas A. Edison means for
America the loss of one of the greatest men and
possibly the greatest scientist and inventor of the
twentieth century.

In the last issue of the magazine which claims the
largest news stand sale of any. publication in the
country, Mrs. Ella A. Boole, national president of the
W. C. T. U. presents an argument in support of
prohibition which will be hard for her opponents to
refute. Mrs. Boole’s article is not of the lurid, emo-
tional type, but is sane and logical, supported by
facts and figures that cannot be controverted. It is
in good temper all through and will strengthen the
cause which she so ably represents.

Aimee Semple McPherson Hutton is failing to draw
in the crowds or the cash in a revival which she is
conducting in Boston. Her audiences are running
around 5,000 a performance and the collections aver-
age 10 cents a head, while her business manager says
she must take in $2,600 at each service in order to
break even. Is this another aspect of the depression?

Gasoline taxes paid by the motorists of the nation
in the first six months of the year totalled $246,373,-
000. The number of gallons taxed showed an increase
of 4 1-2 per cent over the first six months of last
year. The increase of commercial trucks no doubt
accounts for that, and more, for it is not believed
that pleasure cars are operated as much as when
money was more freely circulated.

A sample of the kind of phraseology that the new
American Bible of Dr. J. M. Powis Smith and Dr.
Edgar Goodspeed, of the University of Chicago is to
have was made public last week.

The Lord’s Prayer, for example, will read as fol-
lows:

“Our Father in heaven,

Your name be revered.

Your kingdom come!

Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven!

Give us today bread for the day. :

And forgive us our debts, as we have forgiven
our debtors,

And do not subject us to temptation,

But deliver us from the evil one.”

The new Bible is to make its appearance November
the 10th.

New hostilities flared up recently between Japanese
and Chinese troops, according to advices reaching here
(Peiping) from Mukden. The new outbreaks aroused
fear the Japanese occupation of Manchuria will be fur-
ther prolonged. Mukden dispatches also said a Russian
cavalry detachment had crossed the border into Man-
churia, entering the Chinese city of Manchouli. Man-

echoulians are said to have protested to the Russian con-

sul, who denied the arrival of Russian soldiers had any
military significance and said they were looking for anti-
Bolsheviks believed to have fled to China. The Russian
action caused considerable concern among Peiping offi-
cials, however, in view of the Chinese suspicion that some
misunderstanding existed between Soviet Russia and
Japan prior to the Manchurian occupation,

“Of Ships & Shoes—
& Sealing Wax—
Of Cabbages & Kings...

Duncan McBryde

“COLLEGE TIES”

The Wildcat’s back from the bloody fray,
The Blue Imp has long turned in;

The Wildcat’s still panting, regretting not scoring,
The Blue Imp—Oh Boy !—is all in.

The way those ’Cats jaunted for 92 yards
Near the end of the game, will long be told;
They way the same line stayed in there for 4 quarters
Is a tale that shall never grow cold.

Mill’s passing, Pearce kicking, King running ’round
end,
Peabody’s ground gaining; as well as McQueen’s,
Had Brewer all flustered; the Blue Imp grew thin,
The palsy got Mason;and something: seized James.

But what got “Wallace” worst of all
And had him so nearly caved in,

Was the way our old line, like a solid brick wall
Abs’lutely refused to give in.

So thanks go to Raker and Johnston, on end,
And, center, Bud Gardner, their pard;

As well as Jack Wagner and Whitfield, the tackles,
And Barrier and Conway—on guard!

We couldn’t tell who had the worst “line” at the
game Saturday, Duke, or Grady Cole, the announcer.
Duke’s line was full of lead, Cole’s was full of bull.
Duke led an aerial attack, which was cut off by the
Wildcats, Cole led a gas attack, which was cut off by
Captain Pritchett.

Books we bet you haven’t read:

ON THE TRAIL OF THE LONESOME DIME,
by D. Pression.

LIVID PHILOSOPHERS, by K. Lamity.

PROFILES AND SILLY WETS, a bootleg in 3
quart (0) s. By I Swallow.

And then there was*the Davidson student who went
to the Post Office, to the stamp window, and said,
“T would like to register a—complaint.”

The clerk replied, “Why I can’t even register sur-
prise, but I can give you my stamp of disapproval, if
you'll turn and face the door.”

Do your Christmas hocking early. It’s darkest just
before the pawn.

A switch in time save alimony.

A THOUGHT FOR TODAY

To Borrow is Human} to Repay, Divine.

A California golfer is saturating his golf balls with
an aromatic solution so that the butterflies will be
attraeted to them, thus serving as caddies. Now isn’t
that a sweet solution! When they start following
those butterflies around, and find, half the time, that
the butterflies were only headed for a honeysuckle
vine (or what have you), they’ll invent a whole new
vocabulary of “golf expressions for the infuriated
golfer,” and I don’t think it’s worth the trouble. It’s
a.wonder they don’t invent cross word puzzles of a
special type, just for golfers—you know, “between
the acts” puzzles, when inspiration would be at its
height. Some golf expressions do have about as much
(?¥ meaning as some cross word puzzles, which is
none, and I’m sure the “golfer’s vocabulary” would
contain plenty of words to meet the needs... .

Especially in a street car, you can tell a gentleman
by what he stands for.

AD THIS TO YOUR LIST

(From an ad in the Saturday Evening Post):
“Typing will improve your English. Sentences will be
crisper, more expressive. It is almost impossible to
misspell words on a Corona.”

Soon they'll be saying: Why study English for
years? Perfect your English in six weeks with our
typewriter. Improve your spelling one hundred per
cent. Become an author over (fort) night, Profit by
the mistake of Simon Blotz, who after 30 years of
failure as a writer, found that he had the wrong make
of typewriter. He now spends his summers, in Ber-
muda, He now says, “I am a Coroner for life.”

For our concluding number, Zaturday, the Knight
of Bath, will zing ze populaire zong:
“They kissed in the church, and the bells tolled.”

With that we rest our case.
