eo

N

THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 15, 1931

Che Dabidsonian

Published Wéekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

|

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year, Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

|

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

. WILSON McCUTCHAN...........-..-....- Editor-in-Chief
}: AVI OCANNONS ciisisiiecdecc nat acpesuecusl Business Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF 2
B.C) DWELLE SJ Risssccssce cc as ic ccucce, Managing Editor
Ww. S. A Managing Editor
Di Gio MARTIN Gis seteccacicciccceccocleccclee Managing Editor
W. cH SMATIHE WSs. 22 so ccc co cls ccc ccc aes Sports Editor
A. H: WHITEHEAD................0.....02..22- News Editor
V. M. BELL...-. ae Feature Editor
NORMAN RAIES --Feature Editor
A. Se GRE ---Review Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN -Associate Editor
ee BUA GRGalscccccdsccsacascnsccsces Associate Editor
. C. RAGIN-.. -Associate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
P. M. CONWAY.-. -Assistant Business Manager
A. J. BAKER..--.- Assistant Business Manager
J. B. STEVENS.... Assistant Business Manager
A. G. MONTGOMERY...-..-...---.--- Subscription Manager
PPR BROWN iiiscsccdus sucsedsndeccenccuus Solicitor
BSW i GR Alla ieiiadas tesuccdccdcuulescachsicnssauscausaee Solicitor
A. M. Solicitor
A, L. Solicitor
W. R. Solicitor
. W. .--President
5 &, ST Vice-President
. H.W Secretary-Treasurer

R. H. ALDERMAN J.-M.BRO!
J. G. BERRY G, E, BAILEY
A. R. BIRD J. E. BOYD
N. B. DICKS J. G. DUNKLIN
E, O, GUERRANT W. T. HANCOCK
. E: LAKE R. L. McCALLIE
. C. MATTHEWS Cc. F. MYERS

. F. MULLISS H. F. NICHOLS
G. P. PARDINGTON S. P. PRESTON
C. W. F, SPENCER B. B. SUGG
B. B. TAYLOR W. B. WARD
J. R. ‘SMITH D. D. McBRYDE

JANUARY 15, 1931

Mrs. N. T. Smith was called away last
week on account of the death of her sister-
in-law, Mrs. Mary Cabell Smith, who passed

away in Martinsville, Virginia, on January
6th. Sincerest sympathy is extended Mrs.
Smith in her bereavement.

“T could not love thee, dear,'so much,
Loved I not honor more.”
Richard Lovelace.

SUGGESTIONS
What was termed as one of the dryest years on
record throughout the country is developing into
one of the dampest winters experienced by the
sunny Piedmont region of North Carolina.

Well did the welkin ring in the armory during
the Carolina game the other night. We are not
going to take any credit at all away from a fight-
ing team, but the enthusiastic support of the stu-
dents didn’t hurt anything.

One wonders how many students noticed the im-
provements on the walk from the library by the
Southeast corner of Shearer Hall. It was needed.

“Quiet in the. dormitories is an essential part of
examinations. That, and the Students’ Store stay-
ing open until two o’clock in the morning!

It is gratifying to see the response given by
Davidson men to Ignace Jan Paderewski, fre-
quently termed “the grand old man of music.”

It is hoped that students will be able to stick to
the “code of sportsmanship” which they adopted
in chapel Tuesday’ morning. It contains the es-
sence of the Davidson spirit.

THE FIRST STEP

Last week the basketball team waded into
and emerged from two of the most stren-
uous battles on its schedule. Both of them
were victories. Few seasons have ever been
started more auspiciously.

There is reference to these games and
their effect on Davidson’s standing in the
Big Five in another portion of this paper.
We do not intend to repeat what has been
said elsewhere. There is, however, a duty
which imposes itself on the rest of the stu-
dent body.

Morale is an important factor in any con-
test. Not only is this true as regards each
man on the squad, but also: does it apply to
every man on he hill. A winning team needs
support as much as one which is not so suc-
cessful.

Followers of sports will remember the
fate of the old Philadelphia Athletics who
were disbanded because they were “too
good.” This should be an unnecessary warn-
ing, but over-enthusiasm can prove unde-
sirable at times. *

Davidson has always prided itself on its
backing of all athletic teams. Because of
various negotiations and considerations now
in the making, all records made by its teams
may prove of immense value to the college.
Every man has his responsibility. Finally, it
takes a good man to stand up under defeat,
but it really takes a better one to retain his
poise in victory. : :

GENERAL KNOWLEDGE
In a recent edition of a current monthly
| magazine an author made an interesting re-

mately twenty-five graduates of leading

men’s and women’s schools. Some of the in-
| stitutions represented were: Yale, Harvard,
| Dartmouth, Vassar, and Bryn Mawr. The
|

|
|
| port of an unofficial test given to approxi-

group was gathered together about the hotel
of a Northern resort.

There were four Phi Beta Kappa megp'n
the group, and most of the men and women
were in the upper fifth of their classes. The
questions were compiled by an engineer and
a professional man, one of whom had had
the benefit of little more than a high school
education. Their questionnaire of about 40
questions was compiled briefly and on the
inspiration of the moment; it was not a
diabolical scheme to trick unsuspecting col-
lege graduates.

Most of it was up-to-date, but there were
references to art, music, and history as well
as current literature. The reason for its
compilation was the rather condescending
attitude adopted by the “young generation”
toward those whom they termed “old fogies
-of dead history.” There was no perfect paper
in the group; the majority of the papers did
not pass. What was less encouraging was
the fact that there were whines about the
test “being unfair and not a true test of
knowledge.” The one who made the best
grade was a man who had never made a
high scholastic record but who had done a
great deal of reading. Classical familiarity
is an important step toward education, but
no one can term himself educated unless he
knows. something about those things which
are happening at the present time and which
raise life beyond a merely drab existence.

THE SEMESTER COMES TO A CLOSE

sefore another issue of this paper appears
the fall semester of 1930-1931 will have
ended, Whether it be in a blaze of glory or
in the pangs of defeat depend much on the
individual attainments of the next nine days.
Examinations are here! For Seniors it
should be the next to the last of their under-
graduate days; for Freshmen it is the first.
One is sometimes prone to believe that it is
harder for Sophomores and Juniors to see
the progresg, that they are making than for
any other class. At any rate, examinations
have come for everybody.

Within them comes a tradition which
means more to Davidson men than any of
the rest that have been handed down from
class generation to class generation. It is a
pledge entered into by every student from
Freshman to post graduate, an oath of
honor!

Everyone appreciates the honor system as
it operates on the campus. But, perhaps,
those who have been in institutions and
those who have seen places where it did not
exist appreciate it the more. It is not a sys-
tem which is in force everywhere, nor is it
a plan which would succeed in every in-
stance.

It exists at Davidson essentially because
of the attitude and ideals of the men who
have passed through the grind before. They
were men who treasured honor more than
anything else. They were men of the old
school whose every thought was enhanced
wth truth, courtesy, and consideration for
the other man, They were men’who not only
intended for their given word to be taken
literally, but they were men who also con-
sidered their implied word to mean as much
‘as any other. A spoken word was of as much
value as an oath.

This system would not have continued to
exist if succeeding classes had not given it
their support and consent. The phrase “hon-
or system” has a greater connotation than
denotation. A mere definition of the team
cannot give an ample meaning of the value
signified.

It will not continue to exist except
through the united, serious, and cheerful
support of students. We do not believe that
there is a single man who would, for one
moment, intentionally break down so sacred
a custom, It is only fitting and wise, how-
ever, that every man should think seriously
of the trust imposed in him during examina-
tions.

Not only do students profit by the honor
system, but also does the faculty. It is more
than a convenience for the professor to be
able to leave the examination room with
the knowledge that every action will be
worthy and above-board.

Students have the same privilege, but they
should not abuse it. The successful man is
not the man who takes every iota of liberty
offered him, but he is the man who uses his
freedom to the best “all-around” advantage
to interpret the ideals and demands of the
honor system. Every stydent is acquainted
with them. We do throw out a suggestion,
and it is this: Do not test some man’s honor

Sunny Freeman has the unique distinction of
being the first Davidson student to bring his
aeroplane to college with him. Sunny purchased
his plane last August after procuring a private
pilot’s license in July, which he received only after
passing several tests in flying efficiency and in the
knowledge of government air regulations. Landing
was the hardest test the West Virginia lad took,
because not only was a three-point landing re-
quired but it was necessary that he stop at a

_ designated spot. A thorough physical examination

was also required. No other Davidson man in the
present student body has a pilot’s license.

The airship is a Waco, F bi-plane, has a 125-
Horsepower Kinner engine, and is blue-colored
with a red stripe around it. The passenger ca-
pacity is three persons, two beside the pilot. The
young aviator stated that the Waco plane demon-
strated its matchless performance by having the
fastest peed, showing the quickest take-off and
negotiating the shortest landing of all aircraft en-
tered in last year’s National Air Tour. It can land
and take off within a distance of 50 yards. The
flying machine has a top speed of 125, a cruising
speed of 95, and a landing speed of 32 miles per
hour, and will climb 1,000 feet a minute. Dual con-
trols’ can easily be installed in the plane for pur-
purpose of instructing a new flyer. :

The youthful aeronaut keeps his plane in a
hangar in Charlotte and uses it usually every
week-end, flying it around just» to keep in prac-
tice. Although he lives in Bramwell, W. Va., more
than two hundred miles away as the crow flies, he
can easily fly it in two hours. The license number
of the aeroplane is NC-627Y, and as yet has been

, given no special name.

Last year, in this column there appeared an

“article inquiring as to the method used by College

Humor in choosing their representatives in the
“Meet These Interesting Collegians” section. No
one seems to know. However, many believe that
Southern schools have been repeatedly slighted.
Too, many of those appearing in that section are
undeserving and merit no such honor, as compared
with men better qualified on other campuses.
Last year, Frontis Johnson who finished with the
class of 1930, was easily an outstanding collegian
with his two athletic captaincies, Phi Beta Kappa
and O. D. K. honors. Unfortunately he was over-
looked. It is not the purpose of the column to nom-
inate men for that distinction nor to assist the
publication in determining its choices, but this
year, Dean Rusk, considered by many the most
versatile man Davidson has produced in years,
should certainly be selected by the popular mag-
zine.

Dean’s personal popularity, military, social and
athletic activities, Rhodes scholarship, potential
honor roll candidacy, and numerous other qualities,
easily make him the most. outstanding collegian in
the Southland, at least. Come South, and to David-
son, College Humor, and really get a wonderful
fellow’s picture in your miniature hall of fame!

No more splendid tribute can be paid Coaches
Monk Younger and Tex Tilson than the fact that
three of their most consistent football stars of the
past year are men who have never played high or
prep school football. Of course, these three men
deserve inexpressible credit and much praise for
their brilliant showing in spite of the fact that
their first football knowledge was learned only
after they had entered college. The moulding of
raw material in the person of new grid candidates
into scintillating athletes however, is the most re-
liable criterion of coaching ability available. The
trio which has so successfully co-operated with
Monk and Tex are Steve Brown, Doc Mathis and
Charlie Parker, all splendid players. Cal Kuyken-
dall, who is one of Davidson’s promising linemen,
is another Wildcat who has never played high
school football. And too, there are several men
from the freshman pigskin crew who made their
gridiron debut last fall, as a. measure of their
initial entrance into the popular game.

Dus Enochs and Woody Calligan have become
featured entertainers over Station WBT at Char-
lotte, we are delighted to announce. The Davidson
pair successfully passed an audition before a
committee of critics in the Queen City studio last
Tuesday afternoon, and made such a’ good im-
pression that they were placed on the program that
night. They made a fifteen-minute broadcast, sing-
ing and playing popular pieces and received num-
erous requests before their allotted period ter-
minated.

They are scheduled to appear every Tuesday
night from 10 to 10:15 o'clock. Let’s listen in! This
is not a novelty for Dus because he has had pre-
vious experience singing over Station WHIS at
Bluefield, W. Va. Woody plays the guitar. The an-

by a chance word or careless action. Some
movement, inconsequential as it may be,
may prove to have disastrous affects. Help
the other man with diplomatic behavior.

MUSINGS 9 “%e
MATADOR,

Wp RT a
VEREEN “e, =e

Se been \
a BELL re <I

Once there was a very ambitious boy who went
in a butcher shop to buy some foibles when all of
a sudden-like up jumped another, boy and started
to hollering and using bad language at the butcher
and alla time just laughing like it was the greatest
sport in the world. The boy was named Bill.

“Hey, quit talking to that man like that; you'll
get your face caved in. And anyhow I don’t like to
have you talking that way round me. I’ve got
scruples,” he said, eyeing ‘the butcher to see if he
heard him because he was trying to get a job with
him.

“I don’t care if you have got scruples..I had ’em
already,” saidethe other boy.

“Well, you're gonna get socked by ‘at man.”

“Naw I ain’t. He’s deaf. This is the most fun in
the world. Try it.”

So the boy stopped calling the butcher names for
a minute so Bill could play a while.

“Well, I'll try it once,” said Bill.

He stepped up close to the butcher and said
about two choice insults When all of a hurry the
man socked him right on the nose.

Bill, astonished, turned around to the boy and
said:

“T thought this man was deaf!”

The boy laughed and said:

“He is deaf, but you stepped on his toe.”

Bill turned around quickly and apologized.

“I’m very sorry sir. I hope you'll pardon me. I
really didn’t mean to do it.”

“Eh?” said the butcher.

“I said I didn’t mean to do it!”

“What say?”

“I said it was an accident . .
shouted Bill.

“Oh, an accident. Perfectly terrible; anybody
hurt?” sympathized the butcher.

“Not yet,” mumbled Bill angrily. “By the way,”
he said, raising his voice, how big is this town?”

“Eh?” said the butcher.

“What is the population of your fair city?”
Bill screamed.

“Oh,” smiled the man. “Twenty-five cents a
pound,” he continued. “Do you want them now or
do you want them scented?”

“Oh let’s get out of here before I break a reso-
lution,” mourned Bill.

They turned and walked out.

“We,” said the boy, “ain’t had any good resolu-
tions in this country since the American Resolution
in 1776.”

“You mean,” smiled Bill, knowingly, “the great
American Regulation, or the eighteenth amend-
ment.” eh

“All right, have it your way. Anyhow you ought
to make revolutions that you won’t have such a
hard time keeping like I do. For instance:

I revolved not to kick Officer McGillicudy in the
face when I am wearing hob-nailed shoes.

I revolved not to translate “Ali Baster and His
Forty Sieves” into Ancient Greek.”

“You mean Ata Baby and his Faulty Knees,”
corrected Bill.

“And I revolved not to drive Pa’s Ford over one
hundred and thirty miles an hour on Friday the
thirteenth,” he finished. :

And that, little keeds, is der reason why der
‘pine tree is green all der year round and on holi-
days, too.

Don't cry over birds in the bush before they

. an ACCIDENT!”

“hatch,

Lawyer: “Don’t you think $25,000 cash would
be punishment enough or his breach of promise?”

Revenger: “No, indeed! I want him to marry
me.”

If we had no faults, we should not take so much
pleasure in noticing them in others—La Roche-
foucald.

nouncer sometimes introduces them as the “Doodle
Brothers.”

Tom McClean is deeply interested in construct-
ing miniature aeroplanes and has some beautiful
models in his room, which, incidentally looks like
a city hangar—with so many planes attractively
displayed about it. Tom often goes out to the
golf course and flys his larger ones through “rub-
ber” strength, the little ships sometimes reaching
an altitude of 50 feet, and traveling a distance of
a hundred yards before falling.

Reflections: — Governor John G. Richards of
South Carolina, who was master of ceremonies at
the now famous King’s Mountain sesqui-centennial
celebration held last fall in which President Her-
bert Hoover was the honor guest, is a brother of
Dr. C. M. Richards of the Davidson faculty . . .
Sophomore Ben Moseley of Staunton, Va., is an
intimate friend of William Haines, the motion pic-
ture star ... And Charles Morton, star of “four
Devils” and many other recent moving picture
vehicle, is a cousin of Al Jackson's . . . The per-
fect basketball player—Captain Bill Goodson.
