THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 6, 1931

Book Review

Education of a Princess, by Marie, Grand
Duchess of Russia—The Viking Press,
New York.

In this day when kings are so decidedly
out of style, a book full of palaces, princes,
liveried attendants, political intrigues and
royal balls arouses a deal of interest. Nor is
it concerned only with such things, but has
an assortment of assassinations, murders,
revolutions, war scenes and air raids that
would delight the soul of any 12-year-old
boy. From the Emperor’s fare to horse meat
is a far cry, but the author has done it all
and has told it to us in a most gripping and
personal story. Through it all she does not
forget that this is her story and the result
is an autobiography that is as exciting as
any novel you ever read. It bears marked
resemblance to Dickens’ Tale of Two Cities,
and we come to admire the Duchess Marie
as we realize that she lived these events
which we shudder to read.

A cousin of the late Czar, she and her
brother Dmitri were the most intimate play-
mates of the Czar’s children. Her father was
banished from Russia for marrying outside
the royalty and she grew up under the care
of her uncle. A very keen child by nature,
the conventions of court life bound her down,
and the only real affections of her early life
were centered in Dmitri and her father. At
the early age of eighteen she was joined in
a diplomatic marriage to Prince William of
Sweden and spent a few rather lonely years
in that country before her marriage was
annulled at her request.

Returning to Russia just before the war,
she entered that struggle in the capacity of
a nurse and soon was placed in charge of a
hospital containing six hundred beds. Sev-
.eral years in this situation ended when she
was called to the capital by the news that
her brother, now an army officer, had been
one of the plotters in the assassination of
Rasputin. Dmitri was sent into exile and not
long afterwards the Czar abdicated. Thus
followed a long period of political uncer-
tainty and one of great danger and anxiety
to the members of the Romanoff family.

But the social unrest did not prevent Marie,
still young, from falling in love with, and
marrying Prince Sergey Putiatin, with,
whom she escaped from the country on the
last day before the frontiers were closed to
all refugees. On the next day began the
massacres of Russia’s former rulers during
which all the friends and family of Duchess
Marie were killed.

But still she loves Russia and has hope
for that troubled nation, The blame for the
revolution she places on the unseeing and
stubborn rule of the later Romanoffs. She
also gives, along with a great story, a fine
summary of all that has gone on in Russia
in the last twenty years. You will be edu-
cated, entertained—and you will not leave
this book unfinished.

H. C. McFadyen.

The Wisdom of the Chinese, by Brian Brown,
Brentano's, New York. (Charlotte Public
Library.)

“What do you not wish others should do
unto you, do not unto them” might seem to
be a quotation from one of the Gspels, but
it was written five centuries before Christ
by Confucius. And “your goody-goody peo-
ple are thieves of virtue” might well be taken
for Christ’s denunciation of such as the
scribes and Pharisees. It, too, comes from
Confucius. Again, “requite injury with kind-
ness” is the doctrine of Lao Tzu, while
Kang-Hsi foreshadowed Christian ethics with
“Let us help one another.”

The writings of the Chinese are sententidbus
and are practical for every-day life. Con-
fucius was a great moral teacher, interested
in the social structure of his people. He
wrote (and indeed the greatest Chinese arts,
literature, and philosophy, were written)
before or while Hummurabi was making laws
for young Babylon.

Brian Brown has amassed a “very incom-
plete” anthology of what seems to be the
Chinese’ most prominent expression. The
volume includes thoughts and maxims of
Confucius, Mencius, Lao Tzu, Chuang Tzu,

etc., Chinese poetry and maxims.

Willie—Paw, what is discretion?
Father—Oh, that’s only another name for
lack of nerve, my son.

Future Husband—How does your sister
like the engagement ring that I gave her,
Bobby?

Her Young Brother—Well, it’s a little too
small. She-has an awful hard time getting

it off when the other fellows call.

Philanthropic Debaters
Defeat Eumenean Team
In Inter-Society Debate

McCutchan, McDavid and Noblin,
‘ Winning Trio, Down Wood,
Moore and Mann Two
to One

Last ‘Tuesday evening the Philanthropic
Literary Society defeated the Eumenean So-
ciety before a large crowd in a lively and
interesting inter-society debate, Resolved:
That the Present System of Presidential
Elections Should be Abolished. The judges

were Professors E. F. Shewmake, W. L.
Porter and Frank Brown.
The representatives of the Phi Society

upheld the affirmative and the Eu’s, the nega-
tive. The decision of the judges was 2-1 in
favor of the affirmative.

Following is the argument used by the
affirmative: First, the present system of
election is unsatisfactory. Several instances
of political corruption were cited. The af-
firmative also argued it undemocratic and
unconstitutional. Second, a new plan of pro-
portional representation was presented. The
negative side argued: First, that the present
plan is satisfactory inasmuch as in only
three instances in the history of the nation
has the popular vote gone contrary to the
vote of the electoral college. The theory was
also advanced that an absolute popular vote
would tend to give undue stress to negroes
and aliens voting by unscrupulous political
bosses. The following men participated in
the debating: for the affirmative, Foy Mce-
David, Stuart Noblin, and Wilson McCutch-
an for the negative, Ferguson Wood, Charlie
Moore and Lee Mann, S. W. DuBose, presi-
dent of the Phi Society, presided at the
meeting,

This inter-society debate was instrumental
in creating more interest in society work on
the campus as several new men enrolled
with the Philanthropic immediately after the
debate. These debates should help to bring
back the keen rivalry which once existed
between the societies and create a new inter-
est for the betterment of Davidson's two
oldest and most historic institutions of extra-
curricula activities.

Noted Philosopher
Dies

Chicago—(IP) — Dr. George Herbert
Mead, 68, head of the department of phil-
osophy at the University of Chicago, and one
of the most noted philosophers in America,
died here suddenly of heart failure.

Dr. Mead recently had handed in his res-
ignation, along with several others in his
department, because of what the group
thought was academic tyranny on the part
of Chicago’s youthful president, Dr. Robert
Maynard Hutchins.

The philosopher was educated at Oberlin
College, Harvard University and the Uni-
versities of Berlin and Leipzig. He was the
author of a number of important books on
his subject.

LECTURE ON OXFORD
(Continued from page 1)
chosen from’ colleges with enrollments be-
tween 324 and 857 was increased from 12
to 27 per cent of the total number of Rhodes
scholars.

Dr. Vowles also spoke of the course of
study followed by the Americans at Oxferd.
A majority of the Rhodes scholars take law;
next to the law students come those who
major in medicine and the natural sciences.

Students of English literature, philosophy,

economics, and scattered courses follow.
When the scholars return to America, teach-
ing is the profession most of them enter.
Law follows as a close second.

Davidson. men who desire to compete for
the scholarship should start thinking about it
early in their college career. Those who wish
to compete next year should see Dr. Vowles
this spring so they will be prepared for the
competition next fall. Davidson has already
liad six Rhodes scholars and the new sys-
tem of,appointment should encourage more
Davids men to compete.

West Virginia Club |

The West Virginia Club held their last
meeting of the year Wednesday night in

Chambers Building, Dr. H. B. Arbuckle and |

Prof. W. W. Wood being the honor guests.

At this third meeting of the year, the club

reviewed the achievements of the past year
and considered the progress made under
President Calvin Kuykendall’s leadership un-

usually successful. Plans were made for next |

year. The names of Davidson supporters who
look for prospects in West Virginia have
been secured by Alec St. Clair and within

a few weeks a letter will be sent by a com- |

mittee headed by Billie Franklyn to each
man, explaining why he should come to Da-

vidson, giving some of the school’s good |

points. This plan has the co-operation of
Mr. Hengeveld, the registrar, and is expect-
ed to influence

formal, and John Seal and Bill Hancock |
were in charge of the refreshments. Definite |
plans for next fall are not yet formulated, |
but the first meeting next year will take |

place during the latter part of September..

Prof. Williams Speaks

Last week Professor John P. Wil-.
liams, of the Business Department
at Davidson, delivered the baccalau-
reate address before the graduating
class of Polkton High School, Polk-
ton North Carolina. The principal of
Polkton High School is Prof. Mason
D. Field, graduate of Davidson in
24,

Alcohol. Is No Issue
At Mich. University

Lansing, Mich—(1P)—Drinking by stu-
dents is not a major problem at the Uni-
versity of Michigan, according to a report
submitted to the House of Representatives
last week by the special committee appointed
to investigate liquor conditions at the univer-
sity.

Appointment of the committee followed
raids by Ann Arbor authorities on five fra-

ternity houses the night of February 10, The |

fraternity houses closed until

1932.

September,

Commenting on the raids the committee
said:

“It is the opinion of the committee that
the police officers, who actually raided the
fraternity houses were indiscreet and over-
zealous or were quite willing to embarrass
the students needlessly. :

“The committee. found reason to believe
that drinking among students is gradually
decreasing.

“Drinking is not a common practice among
the students. Conditions are materially bet-
ter than they were five years ago, and there
is less drinking on the campus by the stu-
dents than there was before the adoption of
prohibition.

“The committee finds that conditions not
only are improving at Ann Arbor from year
to year, but that conditions at the University
of Michigan are better than at most colleges
and universities.”

Although intoxicating liquors were found
in each of the five fraternity houses, this
fact does not constitute an indictment of the
entire membership, according to the commit-
tee. In each case, the committee reported,
the liquor was in possession of a few stu-
dents rather than that of the fraternity itself.

No considerable amount of liquor was
found at any of the houses, the report points
out.

The committee directed attention to a uni-
versity rule prohibiting intoxicating liquor
in fraternity houses and added that each
of the fraternities had a similar rule of its
own. j

The time at which the raids were con-
ducted was, according to the committee, ‘a
period of general relaxation and celebration,”

examinations being almost finished: and the |
Junior Hop set for the immediate future.

Carolina, West Virginia, Ap
OFFERS

ber of electives.

To Advanced Students—Specially chosen courses to fit each

individual case.

To the Most Successful Students—Five Fellowships, some resi-

dent, others abroad.

For Catalogue and information, address
Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., President

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Founded 1812. Jointly owned by the Synods of Virginia, North
palachia

To Regular Students—Well balanced course, including a num-

men to attend this institu- |
tion. The program for the evening was in- |

‘McLean Represents
| College at “Y” Meet

| Last Friday Archie McLean went to Green-
| ville, N. C., to attend the joint conference
of the college Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A.
officers which held at East Carolina
Teachers’ College.

was

The men’s organization includes the offi-
cers of all the organized Y. M. C. Av’s lo-
cated in the colleges of this state, and who
are affiliated with the national association.
| Archie is president of this group, This is
| Tikewise true of the ladies’ organization,
‘which is presided over by Miss Louise Mel-
| ville of Guilford.

The conference, which lasted until mid-
day Sunday, was chiefly inspirational in
nature made a comprehensive study of the
problems facing the organization, and was
addressed by Mr. Francis Miller, chairman
of the World’s Student Christian Federation,
land Miss Elizabeth Smith, national secre-
tary of the Y. W. C, A,, amarng other dis-
tinguished speakers.

The officers elected for the coming year
are: President Y. M. C. A., Rawlins Coff-
man, Duke; treasurer Y. M. C. A, M. L.
Shepherd, N. C. State; President Y. W. C.
A., Miss Charlotte Wilkinson, N.C. C. W.;
secretary Y. W. C. A., Miss Frances Mitech-
ell, G. C,

Attention Litterati

“Unfortunately the prima donna was a
little horse.” The college student who  im-
parted this doleful news belongs to that con-
siderable body of the pseudoliterate who per-
| severe in a romantic faith in the power of
intuition as concerns, spelling and diction,
| While dust gatherseon the dictionary, these
| students guess and guess, and their composi
}tions are made discordant by what one of
| them called “the clash of symbols.” Indeed,
| issanes in their writing suggest what one
of their number inadvertently described as
| “a slight concession of’ the brain.”
|

“The author?’ writes a student, “has be-

| trayed his characters with great skill.” These
| betrayals of words, on the other hand, are
unskillful, even unconscious. The grotesque
| humor that resides in them is humor un-
aware of its own existence until the wise
serpent indicates it with a marginal note in
red ink. Perhaps this innocency flavors the
amusement which even the most sober in-
structor must feel now and then, for the dew
of Eden is on these strange fruits, and they
have none of the cloying flavor inherent in
the neat complacency of a premeditated pun.

Certainly no intention of pertness moved
the student who attempted to enumerate
“the benefits deprived from living in a dormi-
tory.” Neither was that one daring who
described a balloon vender as “standing on
a busy corner: selling his wears.” Respectful
in purpose was the youth who wrote that
Wordsworth with new
meaning.’ Probably no racial prejudice ani-
mated the one who cited the writings of
| “the Hebrew profits,” no indignation at low
professorial salaries existed in the mind that
dictated a colorful description of “the com-
mencement procession of robbed, faculty
members,” and no ungallant gibe was intend-
ed in the mention of “the famine sex.” No
| dietary prejudice is necessarily indicated by
the advice to prepare for a coming camping
trip with “food that will not go fowl.” And
who would knowingly describe a friend as
one who is always “a true pall”?

“T impersonated Santa Claus and scarred
some of the youngsters,’ confesses one stu-
dent. The reader is not surprised to learn
that the next night, in further celebration
of the holidays, he went on “a slaying party.”
There is madness in some of these slips of
the pen. They are the irrational gargoyles
on the otherwise shapely structure of written
fanguage. “A maize of vines” sounds a bit
like a Burbank miracle, but even more like
some strange growth casting the supernat-
ural shade of Gothic terror, after the manner

“infests nature a

M. B. Spier of Charlotte
Speaks About Business
On Y Vocational Program

Says Thrift and Perseverance Are
Chief Requirements for Success
in the Business World

Last Friday evening, following the student
body barbecue, Mr. M. B. Speir, of Char-
lotte, spoke to those interested in, business

as a career.

Thrift and perseverance are, according to
Mr. Speir, the chief requirements for suc-
cess in business. Under thrift he stressed the
point of providence for old age. Under perse-
verance the speaker especially stressed the
necessity for self-sacrifice and wholehearted
work,

Upon several occasions the speaker referred
to Mr. W. S. Gifford, president of the Amer-
ican Telephone and Telegraph Company, and
one of the world’s most famous executives.
He holds an A.B. degree from Harvard and
started, after graduation, in electrical work
as a clerk in the Western Electric Company
in Chicago.

With reference to the choice of a position,
Mr. Speir said that in his estimation there
is nothing finer than the partnership of father
and but must wholly
opportunity and ability.

son, one decide hy

of Jack’s horrible beanstalk. We feel our-
at the of a poet
when the patient “gives the nurse a cheerful

selves bedside demented
simile,’ or has a “vacant stair” in his eye.
So in the case of the disillusioned portrait
painter who with one furious gesture “rents”
the canvas from the frame. So with “King
Leer.” In some such light of madness do
we behold, at the circus, “the beauty of the
lions, the tigers, and the lepers.” And what
wild delirium there is in the sentence having
“two clauses separated by a coma.”

In the coinage of words, these writéfs who
have forgotten the dictionary display what
one of their number would call “zealousy.”
Their list ineludes such synthetic products

as “valiantry,” “abhorrible,” “gorilla” war-
fare, a large “vocability.” There are “geolo-
gians,” suggestive of sermons in stones; and
one can imagine that college “alumini” are
those who as students spent their summers
peddling kitchen utensils. A mysterious per-
verse alchemy it is, like that misguided act,
“steeling the gold.”

Sometimes there a curious touch of
rightness about the mistake. Something true
about the age of innocence is suggested by

is

“the area of long skirts.” It may well prove
difficult to “peddle a bicycle.” It is power-
fully descriptive to write that on the wall
hung a “peer” glass, or that one has just
undergone an. “abominable” operation. Nor
is it altogether wrong to define historians
as those who “annalize” the past.

Occasionally there is a touch of genius
which overrides the quibbling about lowness
of wit that pursues the pun, Certainly a child
should not be “irrespective to its father.” Is
there nothing to’be said for the point of view
that Byron was a great “satyrist’’? And who
would not desire to know more about the
“pacific” causes of the World War or about
John McCormack’s “annunciation” ?

Reading that a student has “unrolled” in a
class in French and plans to “consecrate” on
his lessons, the instructor laughs or growls,
according to his mood, and affixes an ironic
marginal comment; the student reads it and
is abashed. It is unfortunate if the matter
ends there. However lamentable the result,
the student's attempt to bring an untamed
word into the barnyard of his domesticated
vocabulary, is a laudable one; and the error
should serve to motivate dictionary study of
at least the two terms Which have been con-
fused.

Wiser than he intended to be was the stu-
den€ who wrote that the dictionary is the
useful source of much valuable information
about the “deviations” of words.—Warren
Beck, Lawrence College, Appleton, Vis:

ollege
Printing

books,

Magazines, PataloRs, Programs, Newspapers, Bulletins, Hand-
Stc.

Nothing too large or small for our plant—Let us serve you.
P. M. CONWAY, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE

6,600 Square Feet of Floor Space Devoted Exclusively to Printing

Engraved Cards and Invitations.

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY CHARLOTTE, N. C.

