ANNUAL
PHOTOGRAPHER
HERE THIS WEEK

“ALENDA

The Davidsonian

LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

WILDCATS
BACK IN
FORM

Vol. XIX

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 7, 1931

No. 4

Wildcat Eleven Defeats
Washington & Lee Team

7-0 in

Davidson Line Holds Stubbornly
When Goal is Threatened by
W. and L. Drives

TOUCHDOWN BY McQUEEN

Mathis, King and Pearce Good on
Defense for Davidson

Scrapping with a spirit that has for years
characterized the play of Davidson’s football
teams, an insignificant—to hear the newspapers
tell it—Wildcat eleven pulled a Horatio Alger
last Saturday afternoon at Lexington, Va., and
defeated a strong Washington and Lee team
by a 7-0 score.

The Wildcats put up a stubborn defense
against the Generals, staving off threat after
threat while waiting patiently for the breaks
of the game. And the breaks finally came. In
the third quarter, the ’Cats being always on
the alert, recovered a fumbled punt and on the
next play converted it into a touchdown, the
only score of the game.

Four times the W. and L. team started
drives for touchdowns, and pushed the Wild-
cats under the shadow of their goal, but four
times the ’Cats turned Spartan and determined,
“They shall not cross,” and they did not cross.
The losers threatened once in the initial period
and thrice more after the Wildcats had scored
in the third quarter. The last three drives ended
on the 6, 12 and 13-yard lines, respectively, and
caused the winners no little worry to keep their
goal uncrossed.

That the Generals showed a supremacy over
the Wildcats in ground gaining is evidenced by

(Continued on page 5)

Dr. T. W. Lingle Delegate
to Institute of Politics

The eleventh annual meeting of the Insti-
tute of Politics was held this summer at
Williamstown, Mass. Dr. T. W. Lingle, head
of the history department at Davidson Col-
lege, attended as a delegate. The meetings
were held in the buildings of Williams Col-
lege. Williamstown is a village of about the
population of Davidson; it is situated in the
extreme northwest corner of the state of
Massachusetts. The Institute is endowed by
John D. Rockefeller, Jr., Oscar Gughem-
heimer, and some other of the«nation’s great
financiers and philanthropists.

President Garfield of Williams, son of the
late President Garfield of the United States,
was chairman of the meeting. Delegates rep-
resenting England, Poland, Canada, . Italy,
Switzerland, and several other foreign coun-
tries, made talks. A delegate was desired
from Russia in order to find out about their
five-year plan and other interesting projects.
but this country refused to send a repre-
sentative, and said that if anyone came they
would not be permitted to return to Russia.
Delegates are rather difficult to find since
they must be able to speak English so that
it may readily be understood. The Institute
was held for the representatives to discuss
International relationships and each coun-
try’s relation to them.

The home of President Garfield was open
to the delegates as a social center. President
and Mrs. Garfield received the delegates of
the meeting in the beautiful drawing room of
their home. Refreshments were served in
the dining room, where hung the portrait of
the late President Garfield.

BEAVER CLUB NOMINATION

At the meeting of ‘Delta Circle of
Omicron Delta Kappa last Monday
night, John Graham O’Keefe, of Blue-
field, West Virginia, was elected the
tenth member of the Beaver Club,
Sophomore Honor Society.

O'Keefe is a member of the Phi Del-
ta Theta Social fraternity. He made
his freshman numerals last year in
football and track, and is one of the
two sophomore representatives on the
Court of Control.

Surprise Victory

Old North State Sends
Many Men to Davidson

Twenty-One States and Five Foreign
Countries Represented in David-
son’s Student Body

Over one-half (57.69) of the students at
Davidson are from the state of North Car-
olina, 369 being the number. South Carolina
is next in line with 42. The third is Georgia,
which has 40 representatives here. The other
states in order are: Virginia, 36; Florida,
29; West Virginia, 28; Alabama, 20; Ten-
nessee, 20; Mississippi, 12; New Jersey, 9;
Texas, 5; Louisiana, 5; Kentucky, 4; Arkan-
sas, 3; New York, 3; Pennsylvania, 3; Cali-
fornia, 2; Connecticut, 2; District of Colum-
bia, 1; Maine, 1; Ohio, 1. Six of the mem-
bers in the student body represent five dif-
ferent foreign countries. Two .are from
China, and one from each of the following:
India, Japan, Korea, and Mexico.

Of the students here*at college, over one-
sixth intend to make business their life work.
One hundred and fourteen plan,to enter
some phase of the business life. Medicine
attracts the next largest number, 89 plan-
ning to enter that field, and law comes third,
with 65 men.

One of the most striking things noted in
the survey was the further decrease in stu-
dents planning to enter the ministry, com-
pared with previous years. This year the
number decreased to 57 men, a drop of five
from last year,and 23 from 1929-30. This is
the smallest number of men naming this as
their vocation who have been in attendance
at Davidson since statistics have been kept
on the student body.

The other professions in order are: En-
gineering, 33; Teaching, 29;~Chemistry, 16;
Journalists, 13; Aviation, 10; Dentists, 7;
Missions, 7; Architecture, 3; Lumbering, 3;
Mortician, 3; Coaching, 2; Music, 2; Farm-
er, 2; Archaeologist, 1; Y. M. C. A,, 1.

Naturally since Davidson is a Presbyterian
school, the students who are Presbyterians
predominate. Nearly three-fourths (71.6%)
are of this denomination. The next in line
are the Methodists who have 85. The other
are: Baptists, 34; Episcopal, 20; A. R. P.,
7; Lutheran, 6; Christian, 5; Congregational-
ist, 3; Moravian, 2; Disciple, 1; Catholic, 1;
Friend, 1; Christian Science, 1; Non-Denom-
inational, 1; No affiliation, 15.

Of the courses here at Davidson the B. S.
2 proves to be the most popular, since 258
students are taking it. B. S. 1 is next in line
with 170, and A. B. 2 is not far behind with
166. There are only 24 applicants for A. B.
1, the course which requires the taking of
both Latin and Greek, Fifteen students are
taking special courses; six are taking pre-
medical courses, and two are. taking their
M. A. degree.

W. & L. Pep Meeting

Was Huge Success

Professor Currie and Coach “Tex”
Tilson Were Present and
Made Brief Talks

The Pep meeting prior to the W. and L.-
Davidson game was a howling success. A
full house of Davidson supporters were on
hand and responded nobly to the efforts of
Cheer-leader Ed Kuykendal.

Prof. Archie Currie was present and de-
livered a short talk which aroused much en-
thusiasm and.a great outburst of applause.

Coach “Tex” Tilson also gave a brief
talk, emphasizing the importance of the out-
come of the game. He then added that a
Davidson victory in this tussel would be of
especial interest to him due to the unusual
fact that he had two brothers connected di-
rectly with the W. & L. machine: one in the
capacity of assistant coach and the other as
a player.

One of the most outstanding factors in
the success of the meeting was the excellent
work of the Davidson band. Several num-
bers were rendered and kept the crowd in

(Continued on page 6)

Individual Pictures

Finished T| his Week

White Studios Supplanted by Wooten-
Multon, of North Carolina, as
Annual Photographers

Led by Dr.

|

The photographers of this year’s edition’ Agr Marker to Be
Put on Chambers

of the Quips and Cranks, Davidson year |
book, arrived on the campus Monday after-
noon and set up a temporary studio in the |
parlor of West dormitory to begin work! “Davidson” to be Painted on Cham-
early Tuesday morning. So far a satisfac-| bers, as Aid to Aviation

tory portion of the student body has already | pesecuiats
visited the studios to have their picture | Whether hurt by the fact that town |
taken for this year’s annual. Great stress Nas! hearing his name was not properly marked |
been laid this year on the importance of} for aviators, or whether he was guided by |

a

every man being represented in their own
college year book.

The photographers are paying their visit
to Davidson this year at a much earlier date

than heretofore, the company doing the

work this year being a new company for!

Davidson. White Studios of New York City
have been the annual photographers for the
past few years. But last year it was decided
by the Student Body to give the contract to
a North Carolina concern of excellent repu-

tation throughout the south. The Wooten-|

-Moulten representative will be on the cam-
pus until Friday, taking only individual pic-
tures.

FE, C. Dwelle, Editor in chief of the 1932
Quips and Cranks, is. anxious to have
greater representation of the student body
in the annual than was in last year’s book.
Dwelle states that the success of any year
book is measured by its representativeness
of the Student Body as a whole and in or-
der for the Davidson year book of 1932 to
surpass those of the past it must have more
pictures of the individuals than any of the
preceding ones had.

a

Dr. Edgar G. Gammon to
Deliver Address at “Y”
Vespers Sunday, Oct. 11

Speaker Has Promised to Give
Account of His Own Views and
Experiences

A pleasant surprise is in store for every
student who attends tha Y. M. C. A. Vespers
Sunday evening, October 11. Dr.
Gammon, pastor of the Myers Park Presby-
terian Church, in C}farlotte, is the speaker
for the occasion. Dr. Gammon knows a lit-
tle about everything and a good deal about
lots of things. He possesses a stained-glass
vocabulary and his talks are informative.
The discourse Sunday night is sure to have
morsels of practical sprinkled
through it and the Dr. will recharge your
jaded spirits. His talks are a frank account
of his own experiences and his views and

advice

impressions are stimulating.

The speaker graduated from Hampden-
Sydney and while at college played on the
football team. Since he has been living in
Charlotte, he has been a loyal Davidson sup-
porter and has won many friends on the
college campus. Dr. Gammon is doing fine
work at the Charlotte church and great
progress has been made since he assumed
his duties there. If present plans go through
special music will also be on the program
and a large crowd is expected to be on hand
to hear Dr. Gammon.

Deputation Service
Active at Davidson

Davidson “Y” Promotes Religious Life
in Community by Furnishing Sun-
day School Teachers

The Davidson “Y” is interested not only in
promoting the religious life of Davidson’s stu-
dents, but in reaching those people who live in
the vicinity of the college. One of the “Y’s”
most interesting and noteworthy features along
this line is the deputation service. John Howard,
chairman of the deputation department, sup-
plies Sunday Schools in the vicinity with teach-
ers, and fills pulpits in local churches.

On Sunday evening, October 5, four David-
son men held the service at the First Presby-
terian Church, Mooresville. Fred Hellegers led
the meeting, Thomas McLean preaching.
George Pardington sang a solo, accompanied
by Edward McNair, who also accompanied the
hymns.

Edgar G.!}

‘an altrustic motive for all aviators is not |
| known, but it is a known fact that Major |
| Howard Davidson, commanding the Air |
Corps at Bolling Field, Washington, D. C.,|
will personally pay for the cost of painting |
“Davidson” in 12-foot letters on the top of |
Chambers building at Davidson College.

Major Davidson passed over here on a
cross-country flight from Brownsville, Tex.,
to Washington, D. C., in August, and when
}he arrived in Washington, wrote to the pres-|
ident of Davidson College. He stated that he |
had failed .to notice the name of the town
painted on any of the buildings. He asked
the authorities of the college to investigate
the cost, and to notify him of the necessary
expense, His request was complied with, and |
a check was received this week by president |
Lingle. t

Workmen will soon be busy and aviators
on the New York-New Orleans aire route
will soon have this additional guide to aid
them in navigation.

Nominations Are Made

| For Important Offices
Rule, Wiley, and McConnell Are Nom-|
inees for Post of Senior Council |
Representative |

|
|
| TWO MEN TO BE CHOSEN
| McCallie, Allen, Pierce Named for _

|

| Student Body Vice-President |

5 |
Last week at the morning chapel exer- |

| cises, the student-council announced its nom
inations of candidates for two important |
offices, William Rule, S. S. Wiley, |

and J. D. McConnell were nominated as can-

student
lalidates to fill the vacancy of Senior Student |
M. Miller, |
McCallie |
and Brook Allen were nominated to fill the |
of Vice-President of the Student
D. Knochs. CW.
from the as

Council representative left by C.
who did not return this year, B. L.

vacancy
| Body,an office left by J.

| Pearce was nominated floor

|candidate for this office.

| Bill Rule is a member of Phi Gamma Del-
ta social fraternity, Mu Beta Psi, Alpha Phi
Epsilon, the Glee Club, the debating team,
jand the Fg@rensic Council. He is also on the
|

| Sam Wiley is a member of Sigma Alpha

varsity football squad,

| Epsilon social fraternity, the Golden Quill,
| Beaver Club, Le Cercle Francais, Ome-
| ga Phi Alpha, and Delta Pi Kappa. He is
|also a member of the Y. M. C. A. board and
| was Vice-President of the Junior class.

the

| John D. McConnell is a member of Kap-
{pa Alpha social fraternity, the varsity foot-
ball team, the Beaver Club and Le Cercle
Francais. He of last
| Junior class also.

The candidates for Vice-President*of the
Student Body are from this year’s Junior
class. Bob McCallie is a member of Kappa
Alpha social fraternity and the Beaver Club.
He is also a member of the track team and
is one of the Managing-Editors of the Dav-
idsonian. Brook Allen is a member of Phi
Gamma Delta social fraternity. He is one of
the Junior cheer-leaders this year. Charles
Pearce is a member of Kappa Sigma Social
fraternity and is on the Varsity football team.

was_ historian year’s

Correction

In the last issue of the Davidsonian, it was
erroneously stated that eight men were pre-
sented with Scabbard and Blade emblems by
Col. W. R. Scott. The story should have read
nine men instead of eight, since the name of
J. H. McKinnon was omitted from the _story.
Another error was in the narhe of Chas. Har-

ris, which should have read Chas. Harrison.

Open Forum Discussion

Foreman at

Y.M.C. A. Vesper Service

Bible Professor Introduces a New
Service by Answering Questions
Submitted by Students

NEW PLAN SUCCESSFUL

Many Students Submit Questions
Concerning Problems of College
Men

Last Sunday night a most impressive and
thought-producing vesper service was conduct-
ed by the Y. M. C. A. with Dr. J. K. Fore-
man as speaker, The meeting was opened by a
hymn, followed by prayers by Bob McCallie
and Tom MacClean. Then Charlie Myers  in-
troduced the speaker.

Professor Foreman set forth first of all the
type of questions to be the short
leneth of time available for this, and his plan
for grouping these questions. In connection with
the fact that time prevented most of the ques-
tions from being answered as they should be,
Professor Foreman extended an invitation to
anyone to come and talk with him privately
about any of the questions submitted, or about
any other questions that may have been troubling
him.

In order to facilitate the answering of such
a large number of questions as thirty-four, Pro-
fessor Foreman grouped them in three divi-
sions: Those questions able to be answered

answered,

|comparatively shortly; those questions which

may best be answered by reading a book on
the subject, and those questions that should
require a greater amount of time and discus-
sion,

In the first group there were several ques-
tions and answers that proved to. be unusually
interesting. The first question asked was, “What
is your ideavof heaven and hell?” Professor
Foreman answered the question in this way:

‘Heaven is a place where the natural conse-

quences of good are unimpeded, and good im-
pulses and wishes are not circumvented by cir-
cumstances. Hell is a place where the conse-
quences of evil are unrestrained and one suffers
the consequences of his own sin.

Another question in this first group was,
“What is truth?” In reply Professor Foreman
brought out the fact that there are two kinds
of truth: material and formal. Material truth
is that that is in reality true, and formal truth
is that that may be held to be true in the mind,
Of course a thing formally true may or may
not be materially true.

fn the second group Dr. Foreman had a large

lnumber of questions dealing with different in-

terpretations of the Bible, and different beliefs
of the Presbyterian Church. These questions
could satisfactorily be answered by parallel read-
ing, so Dr. Foreman gave the proper references
for the answering of these questions, then in-
vited those who would like to discuss the ques-
tions additionally to come and have a “bull”
session with him,

In the third and last group Professor Fore-
man dealt with those questions requiring dis-
cussion, One important question was, “What
is it to believe?” The answer to this was that
it is not the form of belief that counts, but the
loyalty of it to Him.

“Are people who have never heard of Christ
but who live morally good lives saved?” Pro-
fessor Foreman said that in his opinion such
people were saved, because a God such as we
have would not condemn people who had never
had a chance to hear about Him.

After these questions there was a long group
on predestination. In this connection Dr. fore-
man said that there were two things that we
could not explain, and that no other philosophy

(Continued on page 5)

HOLD THAT LINE!

That Y Vesper attendance line, we
mean. Watch the chart down at the
Y building. Last Sunday at the Open
Forum discussion, led by Prof. K. J.
Foreman, the attendance climbed to
323, a gratifying increase over the
previous Vesper service. If every one

who attended last Sunday will bring
another man with him next Sunday,
we'll have the entire student body.

—D. D. M.

©

