THE DAVIDSONIAN, GQROBER 28, 1931

~

The Old Wives’ Tale. Arnold Bennett. George |
Doran. New York.

Arnold Bennett, the author of The Old Wives’
Tale, is a modern in every sense of the expres-
sion. He is a man who writes from a rich field
of experience: he has been a lawyer, an editor,
and an interpreter of life in the novel, in the
play, and in the essay. One might say that he
is also a modern in his great productiveness ;
he has written an incredibly long list of works.

But if this Englishman has created numerous

works, he has also created some which have a

good chance of taking their places in the ranks
of the English classics. One of the most worthy
of these works, if not the most worthy, is that
novel of life in the Victorian age, The Old
Wives’ Tale.

states in introduction that his

The

dominant thought throughout the creation pe-

author

riod of this novel was the tragedy that occurs
in the average woman's life; the fact that, how
ever beautiful and adimired she is in her youth,
slowly without noticeable, casily recognizable
or apparent change, she learns to know life in
its bitterness, or, at least, its seriousness, and
at the same time ages into a complacent, per
haps ugly and stout, and altogether uninterest
ing person. And looking from the point of view

old

that once she, too, was all that is lovely; that

of the woman, there is also the sad fact

she, too, had charm, lively enthusiasm.

Whether or not there is real tragedy in this
transformation, the fact remains that such a
metamorphosis does occur; Arnold Bennett

cleverly shows the causes of these changes in
the lives of three women by demonstrating how
they are affected by things, by events, by other

people, and by their own personalities

One of the things that helps to influence the
characters is the locality in which they live.
Had_ the lived in the small town
of Bursley, it is certain that their existence

Baines not
would not have: been so very provincial and
restricted in there would have been
little desire on the part of the Baines’ daugh-
ters to run away. While we are seeing the ef-

nature ;

fect of locality, we are also getting a vivid pic-
ture of life in the Five Towns. And when we
see the effect of Paris on Sophia, we a
the events which occurred in that city. We no-
tice the house had to mould one
family. Thus, the author: brings his reader in
contact, at the same time, with the lives of some

see

power one

highly fascinating people, the things and places
which influence their lives, and gives his reader
a description of these things and these places.

Events have an important part in the futures
of these lives. If Gilbert Scales, the weak vil-
lain, had not come to the linen-draper’s shop,
Mrs. Baines’ two daughters would have
mained at home and together all their lives.

re-

Tf one of these girl's husband had not died,
her son would not have run off to London, leav-
ing her alone at home. So, events quite natur-
ally change the whole course of the characters’
careers.

Then, too, the very nature or character of
each person determines, to a great extent, how
he acts in every circumstance. Constance, one
examplé of a changing woman, cannot, even in

7
Book Review | |

Facts

Ler’s

talk

HAT you want in a cigarette és taste. You want
mildness . . . smoothness . . . and satisfying pleasure

when you smoke.

All right then . . . get this straight.

HESTERFIELD pays top prices... yes, and a

y premium for the ripest, mellowest, sweetest-
tasting leaf that grows.

Thecuring and conditioning is doneby special-

ists . .. men carefully trained in handling these

fine tobaccos.

N BLENDING, also, Chesterfields are different
I . . - Instead of merely mixing the tobaccos
together . . . we cross-blend them. It’s like mak-
ing a new and better-tasting kind of tobacco.

That’s how we get that Chesterfield flavor. Milder

. . . and a more pleasing aroma.

Cigarette paper? Only the purest that’s made

is good enough for Chesterfield.

. FACE - UP

© 1931, Liccetr & Myers Tosacco Co.

traight from the Shoulder

ICK UP a package. Note its clean appearance . . . free
from heavy inks. It’s moisture-prgof, too.

And three big factories at Richmond, Durham and San
Francisco— operating under the strictest sanitary standards
—rush them fresh to you.

-Good . . . they’ve got to be good. Be-
cause they’re made that way. And
most important of all... you can
taste this goodness in the cigarette.
You can tell it in the smoke.

Light up, Mister! Try Chesterfield.
Let the cigarette doits own talking.

You'll get the whole thrilling story,
in just two words . . .“‘They Satisfy”!

wt “Yes Siz Wild yet they Satinfy”

later years, get over a tendency to remain in
her home. Sophia cannot be anyone but a
Baines, even with the temptations of -Paris in
a siege.

In this same way, by giving many examples,
Bennett points out the profound effect other
men and women have on his chief characters,
Mrs. Baines, Constance, and Sophia.

The Old Wives’ Tale is a remarkable mod-
ern novel. It starts to point out a truth: it
achieves its end; it is convincing. Every situa-
tion seems reasonable and every result natural.
Detail after detail is given to show why this or
that happens. We perceive a large section of
life with all of its complexities. We witness the
reactions of the chatacters to various crises in
their lives. Not only do the Baines become real,
but we almost know their relatives, Aunt Har-
riet, Aunt Maria, the Dick Poveys, and their
neighbors, Miss Insull, and Mr. Critchlow. The
novel is as inclusive as a novel of George Eliot;
we seem to be living a different life for a
time.

In theme, in style, in characterization and the
delineation of character changes, and in excel-
lent workmanship, Arnold Bennett can place his
work with some of those of the masters. In
fact, one critic says that fifty and a hundred |
years from now, The Old Wives’ Tale will be!
read as Dickens is read today. We can hope that
such a novel will represent the ability of our
contemporaries.

Frederick Hellegers.

‘

DAVIDSON-ERSKINE BATTLE | WHAT SPORTS WRITERS THINK

(Continued from pgae 1)
Score by periods:

mipeaceeenrasyt ie oye 3 | 0 0 0
Berea ae | 0 0 0

0—0
0-0

Erskine
Davidson
Substitutes: Erskine, Bussey for Carr, Gales
for Ferguson, White for Caldwell, Gales for
Carr, Bussey for Ferguson, Wallace for T.
Gettys, Carson for Mason, Moore for Bussey ;
for Davidson, Pearce for Peabody, Mills for
Flinn, McQueen for West, Mathis for Barrier,
Brown for Raker, Kuykendall for Wagner, Mc-
Connell for Gardner, Flinn for McQueen,

A sorority house. at Salem, Ore., has been
leased and fitted up as a club house for the
students from foreign lands who attended Wil-
lamette University. There are seven Japanese,
two Chinese, four Filipinos, one Russian on
the roll. Hitherto they have lived in scattered
lodgings all over the city.

It is not .unlikely that in the next 50 years
America will be divided into two worlds; the
world of Peter and the world of Pan.—Dr.
Fylton Sheen.

It is as important for purposes of thought to
keep languages efficient as it is in surgery. to
keep tetanus bacilli out of one’s bandages.—
Ezra Pound. ’

(Continued from page 4)
spired team that-may upset the dope ....
Anyway, Duke will know it has been play-
ing football,” and then after the game the
same paper observed:

“Some of the boys are tearing their
hair about little Davidson’s holding
mighty Duke to a 0-0 tie—but not us.
Anybody who doesn’t think Monk
Younger’s fighting Wildcats are loaded
for bear this season had better not fool
with them. They have a good team, lack-
ing in reserves, but filled with more
elan and esprit de corps than all the rest
of the North Carolina Big Five put to-
gether, fighting with its back to the wall,
but was carrying the game to Duke ter-
ritory. ...

And along came John Herndon, assistant
sports editor of The Observer, with this
opinion:

“A Wildcat may be cornered, but he
won't be tamed. While there is a fang
or claw hooked on he carries out the
law of the jungle that knows only vic-
tory or death. So it is with the Davidson
Wildcats.”

The Associated Press lead paragraph on
the account of the game follows : “David-

Wildcats, famed for their habit of
fighting gallantly against great odds, lived
up to their reputation before a Home-Com-
ing crowd of 5,000 here today and battled
Duke University’s Southern
team to a spectacular scoreless tie.”

son's

Conference

And on Monday after the game, the News
and Observer writer put it this way:

“With those Davidson Wildcats again
up to their traditional antics . . . . Doped
to lose to Wallace Wade’s Duke outfit
without any great exercise on the part
of the Durham boys, Davidson swept
through four dazzling periods to hold
the vaunted Blue Devils to a scoreless
tie.”

“THE MAGIC SWORD”

(Continued from page 1)

posed of Charles C. Lucas, cello; Horace Er-
win, violinist; Edwin McNair, pianist, played
“Salut D’amour.” Paul Brown, Bob McCallie
and Nat Speir were called on to pray.

Miss Marion Burgess, supervisor of music
in High Point, favored the audience with a se-
lection, “What Will Yot Give to Jesus?” It
was brought out in the introduction that Dr.
Nabers’ name is appropriate, since he is such
a good neighbor and friend to Davidson. Dr.
W. L. Lingle closed the service with a prayer.

Verbum Sapienti Satis

Unless Davidson spirit is limited to
pep meetings and football games, it
would seem plausible that any group

of students in the

acting students’
name and for their entertainment is
entitled to the support and at least the
consideration shown other groups. Dur-
ing a play by Davidson students, loud
whisperings, booing, or other deroga-
tory ejaculations are hardly a mani-
festation of the aforementioned spirit
and much less a mark of good breed-
ing.

If a passage in a play is not done
according to an individual’s own inter-
pretation, the proper time for suggest-
ing the cast’s error, it should be noted,

is not during the play, but after the
performance, or better, at dress re-
hearsal, to which we are sure admit-
tance for the purpose can be gained.
For the trend or outcome of the story
the cast is not responsible. We know
that the Red and Black Masquers will
gladly furnish the name of the author.

Verbum Sapienti Satis.

