N

‘THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 19, 1931

Tie Davidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class, matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina. J ~

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

Edit

-in-Chief
Manager

. WILSON McCUTCHAN
A. CANNON ...- B

EDITORIAL STAFF

—

E. C. DWELLE, JR. Managing Editor
Ww. S. LEA M ing Editor
D. G. MARTIN. Managing Editor
W. H. MATTHEWS. Sports Editor
A. H. TRE HEAD. ooo soc cnn coco coc ccccscennse News Editor
V. M. BELL Feature Editor
NORMAN RAIES. Feature Editor
A. R. JACKSON..---------------- Review Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN...------ -A iate Editor
. B. BLACK..-- Associate Editor
Wy, C. RAGIN Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

P. M. CONWAY.....----------- Assistant Business Manager
A. J. BAKER... .-Assistant Business Manager
J. 3. STEVENS.. .--Assistant Business Manager
A. G. MONTGOMERY...........------Subscription Manager
P. F. BROWN. icit
R, W. FALUS............2........-..-. olicitor
A. M. MANSON...-.. oe icitor
A; Li, MRBANE, scsccccnccscccccecccccccqcce icit
W. R. MORROW... or
REPORTERS’ CLUB “

S. S. WILEY--.-. President
D. G. STEPHENSON.--
A. H. WHITEHEAD... sh oa

R. H. ALDERMAN J. M O

J. G. BERRY G. E

A. R. BIRD }: E. BOYD

N. B. DICKS . G. DUNKLIN

E. O. GUERRANT W. T. HAN

. E. LAKE R. L. McCALLIE

. C. MATTHEWS Cc. F. MYERS

. F. MULLISS H. F. NICHOLS

G. P. PARDINGTON S. P. PRESTON

Cc. W. F. SPENCER B. B. SUGG

B. B. TAYLOR W. B. WARD

J. R. SMITH' D. D. McBRYDE

FEBRUARY 19, 1931

I have nothing to say about anything.
Senator Fess, Republican Chairman.

SUGGESTIONS
Poe Company jumped into the unlimited class
again Saturday night. Fans will recall that he did
the same thing successully last year. Seniors re-
member Jeff Garrison, 145 pounder, gained time on
unlimited opponents.

Between the flu and the pink-eye students are
having a hard time of it. If it must come, one can
be thankful that examinations are safely by.

There has been a general exodus to Chattanooga.
A great many Tennessee boys have gone home and
taken their friends with them, taking in a great
conference while there.

President Hoover, at the time this is written,
seems to be facing a defeat of his veto. Sometime
there may be a legislature that will back its leader.

Now, that there is a promise of all marines being
withdrawn from Nicaragua, the revolutionists can
wage their war in peace.

Seniors rush frantically about making last min-
ute preparations for their house-party.

Next week in this space we hope and intend to
hail the Wildcats as state champions in basketball.
It will be practically decided by them.

A CRYING NEED

Never has the necessity of a new infirm-
ary been more poignantly felt by the college
than during the present epidemic of
influenza. Especially is this true as regards
size and capacity. It was a significant ges-
ture when beds were placed in the parlor of
West for emergency cases, even if they were
not actually occupied.

Praise is due the medical and infirmary
staff for their ability to cope with the sit-
uation which has so frequently proved dis-
astrous in the past. When one pauses to
think, it is something of a miracle that more
students have not had to report for medical
attention.

A sick boy away from home is something
different from a sick at home or a well boy
away from home, When one is in the first
situation he is deeply sensitive to any atten-
tion he receives; he can also be extremely,
appreciative. Only praise can be dircted to
the personnel of the infirmary for the man-

ner in which it has functioned in the past. |

Nevertheless, one wonders what could be
done if this same personnel were installed in
in an up-to-date plant. It is a matter for
which no one can be blamed; it is more of
a plan for the future. When dreams and
hopes for a finer Davidson rise in the hearts
of her sons, we believe that the infirmary
should claim a paramount place among
them. The staff and the students are worthy
of something better.

SPRING FEVER!
“In the spring a young man’s fancy
Lightly turns to thoughts of love.”
That was what Alfred Lord Tennyson
,-Said was the effect of that well-known ail-
“ment, Spring Fever. But we are inclined to

think that the same statement can be
changed a very little and apply equally well
today. Recast, it might read: “In the spring
a young man’s fancy lightly turns—.”

There is no gainsaying the fact that it is
harder to study in the spring than at any
other time of the year. One can find more
seemingly good reasons to procrastinate
and put off those hundred and one little
things: that are always popping up during
spring than at any other season during the
whole twelve months. Work that has here-
tofore seemed interesting and absorbing
suddenly acquires an aspect of plain old
drudgery that is hard to overcome.

Reasons there are aplenty for the condi-
tion. Warm days and long twilights seem
to throw one entirely off their well planned
schedules. The golf course, tennis courts,
baseball, and things like that offer a strong-
er and stronger pull away from study. The
very atmosphere seems to pull. And then
too, there is a natural reaction after six or
seven months of work that forces one to
want to let up and just coast on through
those few remaining weeks to the end of
school.

But whatever, the cause or whatever may
be the result, a slackening in pace just now
may wreck an entire semester’s hard work.
A small turnng of fancy from dry books. to
any one of.a thousand more alluring, but
possibly less pressing subjects, may serious-
ly hamper one’s success in those dry,. but
nevertheless important books.

This is not intended to be an argument
against sprng, or against-the full enjoyment
of that time. But only this: Don’t forget that
let-ups are dangerous things, and especally
at this time of the year.

Grades. .before spring holidays determine
whether members of the freshman class
remain in school or are asked to withdraw.
A slackening of pace, however slight, by a
man who may be in the borderline may
mean the difference between spending the
latter part of the semester in Davidson or
at home.

Upperclassmen, having been in college
longer and learned its ways better, are gen-
erally more inclined to begin to let things
slip at the slightest provocation than are the
first year men. And a little jaded by their
year’s work so far, perhaps, they too might
be led off. But upperclassmen must pass,
too.

We would not have it any other way but
the way it is. Spring, and its attendant di-
vertisements, is the most enjoyable time of
the entire college term, we think. But be
careful that a fickle fancy doesn’t turn too
many ways and then refuse to come back to
those boresome, worldly things, like studies.

W. H. Matthews.

DAILY EXERCISE

This editorial page has recently carried
discussions of various minor sports, and also
sports in whch the college is represented
but which do not earn varsity recognition.
It is conceivable that these articles were of
more interest, perhaps, to athletes than to
others. There is still another phase of sport
life in Davidson which has not been treated.
It should probably be termed exercise rather
than athletics,

Intra-mural, inter-fraternity, and inter-
company contests have a distinct value, but
they do not claim everyone’s attention. One
does not have to be a close observer to see
that a great many men engage in all three
divisions. In other words, some one hundred
men suffice to form all of these teams. This
is probably due to the men’s natural love
for contest and exercise. From thirty to
forty of these are Freshmen,

It is the case of the other two hundred
and fifty upperclassmen that intérests us.
They are those who do not engage in the
class games, varsity contests,.and who for
various reasons do not take the course in the
Reserve Offieers’-Frianing Corps.

Under the present system in the Physical
Education Department these men mus take
at least three hours of exercise per week.
Many of them take more than this ; some do
only what is required of them.

Captain Pritchett has done much to make
everyone “exercise-conscious.” Still, there
are many men who look upon the care- of
their physical health as something which is
unimportant and a thing to be taken by fits
and spells. A little experience will prove to
any man that his health, good humor, men-
tal activity, and energy all improve with
regular and systematic exercise.

Parallel bars, mat work, basketball, volley
ball, and campus football will all help. The
fresh air and sunshine alone will do their
part, and this part is far more than the
average man ordinarily believes.

OH DAVIDSON!

Emanating from Davidson’s vast store of tra-
ditions is one, singular within itself—that of the
enrollment of the late Woodrow Wilson, our war-
time President, in Davidson College decades ago,
and for whom present-day political prophets have
predicted a brilliant future reputation—that time
will prove him the greatest of our chief execu-
tives! and who has become a beloved memory to
the whole nation as well as to all Davidson alumni.
Dr. Wertenbaker’s visit here revived the interest
in our ‘most famous alumnus so, that the former
President was the subject of prevalent conversa-
tion on the campus for several days.

Very few people know the exact facts about the
President’s stay here, and rumors are rife as to
his activities, most of the hearsay portraying his
character as unduly pessimistc. An attempt is
made here to recall briefly and accurately some of
Mr. Wilson’s relations to the college in the one
year that he remained here and his contact with
the institution during his presidency.

The author of the famous “14 points,” matricu-
lated here in the fall of 1873 at’ the age of 17
years, His personality was not necessarily so at-
tractive that it kept his class-mates closely con-
cerned with his actions. In fact, little did they
dream that within their midst was a boy who would
rise to the highest position in the gift of the
American people. Therefore, few records of Wood-
row Wilson life at Davidson were preserved, and
not until his accession to the presidential chair did
many of his college chums recount the incidents
which occurred while he was a freshman. Even
some of these stories became mere fabrications,
but there are some records in black and white
which are undeniably true.

Unfortunately for us who had taken it home to
use as a defense against parental attack, the story
that Thomas Woodrow Wilson “flunked out,” is
an erronous one, this misunderstanding arising out
of the confusion of two names. It happened that
another student’ here at the same time, known as
W. Wilson, had left college early in the fall for
some unknown reason. Both were members of the
same literary society and through the minutes of
this organization, this was found to be the case.
records also definitely show that President Wilson
was also known as “T” Wilson or “Tom” Wilson.

His scholastic achievements while here, although
not exceedingly high, were better than the aver-
age. His grades for the first semester were: Logic

95, Greek 87, Latin 90, Mathematics 74, Composi-

tion 96, Declamation 92, and 100 per cent in De-
portment—a general average of 87.67 per cent. In
the spring his grades slightly increased in each
subject giving him an average of 93.42 per cent,
still below the Honor Roll. From this record it is
evident that the immortal war-time chief was a
poor student in mathematics and his 100 in de-
portment makes obvious the reality that he was
not prone to be rowdy or disorderly. He was ill
much of the spring term having been absent from
Chapel 44 times, getting 3 church cuts, and missing
66 classes, as compared to two excused chapel
absences occurring in the fall.

“Tom” was aligned with the Eumanean society
and was formally inducted into its secrets on
October 4, 1873, and in this. hall started his climb
to oratorical heights. The minutes show that he
was frequently selected for parts on the program.
He lost his first debate, and the judges’ decision in
his second one.

His prowess as an athlete is described in the
following paragraph, as told by a team-mate on
the baseball nine, the late ex-Governor Glenn, of
North Carolina.

“Davidson was playing its strongest rival and in
the last half of the ninth inning, with the opposing
team up, the score stood four to three in favor of
Davidson. The opponents had a man on first and
second, with two out and the next batsman was
the strongest on the opposing team. I decided to
give the batter four balls and take my chance with
the next batter, who was weak. I threw a ball wide
of the plate and to my surprise the batsman step-
ped out and hit it fairly.

“The two men on bases started to run, as did
the batter, and it looked like a home run. With
the crack of the ball Wilson started after it. No-
body believed that he could get it, but just as it
got over his head he leaped several feet in the
air and the ball hit his hand. It stuck. The game
was over and Woodrow Wilson had won it.”

Woodrow Wilson narrowly averted being drown-
ed while swimming in the Catawba river, a few
miles distant, during his spring term here. He was
attacked with cramp and his cries attracted the
attention of a negro plowman in a nearby field,
who came and rescued him. The negro, Randolph
Williams, later moved to Ohio and. it is not known
if he-ever lived long enough to realize the great-
ness of his service.

Taking part in Davidson's religious life, the for-
mer Princeton University head regiilarly went
across the railroad to teach in a mission Sunday

The reason he remained here ‘only one year was
because he wanted “to go to a place closer to

MMRABOR
Ly) ae
“ett a

It’s funny how people, some people, not all of
them always get stuck when something happens.
I guess it’s just like getting old—it’s got to be;
why, when I was younger I used to think nothing
of a fifteen mile walk.\(The truth is that I think
very little of it now.) But I'll tell you the kind of a
person I am. I am always the one who has the
check in my hand when we get to the cash reg-
ister. It usually happens like this. The waiter
brings the check, lays it on the table. All the male
members of the party will reach for it at once,
each one secretly hoping someone else will beat
them to it. I usually get it first grab, but some-
times I don’t and of course everybody must clamor
for it to make things look right, if I haven't al-
ready got it, I clamor with the rest, secretly gloat-
ing over the fact that I haven’t the thing. About
the time, though, that I holler, “Give it to me”
(real loud in order to make myself heard over the
hubbub) everybody stops talking for some reason
and it sounds as if I screamed at the top of my.
voice. The holder of the check thinks that I am
angry and he, cowering before such a hot-tem-
pered person, gives it to me. This happened once
and I felt bad about it so I told one of the ladies
that I was a cad, but she said “Fine. The next time
you come over bring some golf balls.” It’s ‘not the
paying part of it I mind, it’s the uncertainty of it.

_Now if I knew all along that I was going to have

to pay the check, I could smile benignly as only
a host can, and maybe cut down a little on my
Own eating.

But I always find a silver lining somewhere.
Once when I was lost I thought, not how far. I
was from the nearest town, but what a good place
that would be to throw my old razor blades. I
don’t know the meaning of pessimism. As far as
that goes, though, I don’t know the meaning of
leprechaun, or sleazy or malapropism. To get
back to my silver lining, once our water system
went on the bum and the plumber took a long
time to get there. But was I discouraged? No; the
answer comes back. I taught my little sister how
to swim while we were waiting.

I feel sorry for that plumber though because he
had a hard time last week. He was on a job and
the man asked him twice to hurry and he said
he wasn’t going to do it so the man hit him so
hard he had to be taken to the hospital.

However, it always pays to be optimistic and
find a bright side to things. When I tried to get a
job once and the man said that they didn’t need
any help, so I told him I would not be much help,
and he hired me. I was getting along fine until I
found that every article you broke while you were
working there cost you $1 off your pay. After the
first week I owed the company six dollars; but I
said that’s all right. Think of the experience I was
getting. I could learn the business and work right
on up. Of course, I didn’t work up because I was
fired the next week, but that didn’t matter; I
wanted to catch up on my reading anyway.

So you see I’m always the loser. The only chance
I ever had to get married was to a girl with
X-ray eyes. Everything was going along fine till
I went off and came back to find her married to
another man. When I tried to find out the reason
someone told me she had met the man right after
he had swallowed a diamond ring. (But I’m not
going to swallow a diamond ring for anybody,
even if they do have X-ray eyes.)

Whenever there’s any carpentering to be done
anywhere, no matter how loud I ask to use the
hammer, it usually ends up in me having to hold
the nail for somebody else. (And that, kiddies, is
why I haven’t but three fingers.) I ought to be a
good loser. I’ve had enough practice.

FINIS

where history is being made.” He explained that
he thought Davidson was a fine school and had a
splendid faculty and that he regretted leaving,
very much. He went to the University of Virginia.

At President Wilson’s inauguration a little band
of Davidson College students, seventy in number,
went to Washington, D. C., and were assigned to
the head of the college section in the great in-
augural parade. The other colleges represented
were Princeton, University of Virginia and, Johns
Hopkins—all institutions whch Mr. Wilson had
either attended or taught as a professor.

This part of the parade passed the reviewing
stand in the twilight. The president had stood for
many hours and was, presumably, wearied to ex-
haustion. For some little while he had been seated,
but when the little group of men, led by a David-
son banner, came near the stand, he arose, re-
moved his hat, bowed in recognition and acknowl-
edgment, and stood at atention until they passed.

When Secretary of the Navy Josephus Daniels
spoke at Commencement here in 1914, Wodrow
Wilson wrote and asked the former cabinet mem-
ber to convey his cordial greetings to the student
body on the President’s behalf. All these acts in-
dicate his unceasing interest in Davidson, even dur-
ing his period of intense diplomacy.

(Continued on page 5)
