THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 30, 1931

pe

et

Hi}
mill

ALUMNI PERSONALS

ALUMNI DEATHS

Geo. W. Mackey, ‘11, of Greenville, S. Gi
for many years connected with the Y. M. C. A,
become affiliated with the James F. Mackey
& Sons Mortuary, in that city.

F. M. Pridgen, Jr., ’31, has been transferred
from Nashville, Tenn., to Detroit, Mich., by the
Equitable Life Assurance Society. His address
in Detroit is 2288 Lathrop St. Robt. B. Erck-
man, '30, with the same concern, has a new ad-
dressp 1115 Armour Boulevard, Kansas City,
Missouri.

Julian R. Briggs, ’25, who completed last
May a four-year service with % branch of the
National City Bank of New York in the Phil-
ippine Islaids, is now in New York, prepara-
tory to sailing on October 15th for Shanghai,
China, where he continues his’ connection with
this firm.

5S. Wood Brown, ’26, who studied under the
Sterling Fellowship in the Yale Law School
last year, is now connected with the firm, Spen-
cer, Disere, Phelps & Dunbar, at New Or-
leans, La.

Tyree Dillard, '28, who completed his law
Preparation at Harvard last June, successfully
passed the District of Columbia bar examina-
tion, and is now connected with Douglas,
O'Brien & Douglas, at Washington, D. C.,
R. S. Link, Jr., '28, passed the Louisiana State
bar, but has another year in the Tulane Med-
ical School.

‘ Last Monday, Rev. W. Beatty Jennings, D.D.,
’80, completed his twenty-fifth year of service
as pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in
Germantown, Pa., and celebration of the event
by Dr. aad Mrs. Jennings, the church and all
of its organizations was an important occasion.

Alumni who were recently chosen modera-
tors of North Carolina Presbyteries included
Dr. J. M. McConnell, '99, Davidson, of Con-
cord Presbytery; Rev. W. M. Baker, ’09,
Mebane, of Orange, and Rev. J. K. Fleming, 19,
Thomasville, of Winston-Salem . Presbytery.
Several other Davidson men were given the
offices of stated clerks, or assistant clerks.

Dr. W. H. Sprunt, Jr., ’14, of Winston-Sa-
lem, is scheduled to speak before the Eighth
District Medical Society at its meeting in Reids-
ville next Friday. Irvin S. Cobb, author and
humorist, will be among the, speakers.

S. T. Henderson, ’17, of Charlotte, will speak
at the tenth annual convention of the North
Carolina Association of Real Estate Boards

when that organization meets in Durham, Oc-
tober 9-10.

McAlister Carson, ’13, of Charlotte, and J.
L. Choate, '16, of Huntersville, were recently
renamed as trustees of Queens-Chicora College.
Mr. Carson is chairman of the trustees of this
institution.

Dr. Robt. E. Abell, ’08, of Chester, S. (On
has been named examiner for the Veterans
Bureau of that district.

Be

Paul P. Brown, '03, of Raleigh, secretary of
the North Carolina Bankers Association, has
been named as an associate councilman for this
state for the American Institute of Banking.

Rev. S. H. Hay, D.D., 06, of Morristown,
Tenn., and Rey. John R. Hay, ’10, of Hickory,
brothers, toured Scotland, France and England
this summer. Rev. Egbert W. Smith, D.D.,
’82, of Nashville, Tenn., sails October 2nd for
a visit to the Holy Land and to the Presbyterian

missions in the Belgian Congo.

Rev. Wm., T. Baker, ’25, of Winston-Salem,
was this summer chosen president of the Asso-
-ciation of Religious Education Directors in the
Southern Presbyterian Church. It was the ini-
tial organization of this group, and Mr. Baker
‘is the first president.

W. C. Archie, ’28, who has been teaching
and coaching at Gulf Coast Military Academy,
Gulfport, Miss., since his graduation, is now
connected with Oak Ridge Military Institute.

James F. Pinkney, 27, in January became

Shafroth and Toll, at Denver, Colo., . 730
Equitable Building. He completed his law course
at the University of Colorado.

Among the visitors to the Davidson cam-
pus during the past week were Rev. R. P.
Smith, D.D., '73, of Asheville; Dr. Thos. D.
Sparrow, '16, of Charlotte, speaker at “Y”
vespers; Robert W. Graves, ’26, of Rome,
Ga., en route to Duke Medicine School; J.
W. Grey, '28, of Charlotte; W. Hampton
Jennings, ’28, of Thomasville, Ga.; Robt. L.
MeMillan, '28, of Charlotte, en route to Duke
Medical School; W. L. Dumas, ’29, of Tal-
ladega, Ala., en route to Harvard Law
Schoool Carey J. Hansel, ’30, of Old Fort;
Louis C. Roberts, ’30, of Shelby, and H.
Stokes Munroe, Jr., ’31, of Charlotte, both
en route to Duke Medical School.

Governor Gardner of North Carolina re-
cently appointed delegates to the U: S. Good
Roads convention to be held in Birmingham
Ala., on October 12-15, Included in ‘the list
were Dr, John T. Burrus, 98, of High Point,
and John A, Scott; ’11, of Statesville. In his
appointments from South Carolina Gover-
nor Blackwood included: W. F.
of Crocketsville, S. ¢
of Manning.

Lightsey, ’97,
>, and T. H. Stukes; '13,

ENGAGEMENTS

Allen-Armfield

“Mr. and Mrs. Henry Drewry Allen, of
the of their
Elizabeth Drewry, to William
Armfield, TIT, Asheboro, the
wedding to be solemnized in the late fall.”

Weldon,announce
daughter,
Johnston

engagement
of

Since leaving Davidson, Mr. Armfield has
‘eeen in business at Asheboro. He is a mem-
ser of the class of 1928,

Alumni Marriages

Peterson-Mann

“Dr. J. E. Mann, of Middleton jannounces
the marriage of his daughter, Lizzie Lowe,
to Edward Burwell Petersonjof Atlanta, Ga.
‘n Rocky Mount, September 18th.”

Mr, Peterson is in the class of 1930, and
after leaving Davidson was located for some
‘ime in Atlanta. Lately, he has been travel-
ing for Proctor and Gable Company, and at
resent his headquarters are at Rocky Mt.
vhere he and his bride are at home.

A movement is now on foot to induce the
authorities of, Westminster Abbey to ask Pres-
dent Hoover to use, his good offices to get the
‘ody of the famous evangelist, George White-
field, which has long rested in the South Pres-
byterian Church at Newbury Port, thirty miles
from Boston, sent to England,-with «a view to
1 resting place being found in the Abbey.—
United Presbyterian.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, N. C.

year 1931-32.

connected with the law firm of Grant, Ellis,

I have enclosed $2.00, for which please send me THE
DAVIDSONIAN to the address below, for the school

SIGNED

i! ;
SMAI
| j

The following accounts of the deaths of
Davidson alumni who died during the -late
spring, summer months, or early fall, and

which have not been recorded in the columns
of The Davidsonian :

Col. F. H. Fries, ’74

Col. Francis Henry Fries). 1874 graduate
of Davidson, president of the Wachovia Bank
& Trust Company, an outstanding financier of
the South and pioneer developer of the western
part of the state, died at his home in Win-
ston-Salem on June 5th, following a two weeks’
illness.

Following his graduation from Davidson, Col.
Fries: entered the textile business, working up
to superintendency of the F. and H. Fries mills
by 1887. That year he undertook to build and
did build the Roanoke and Southern Railway,
at.a total cost of over two million dollars, which
railroad was consolidated in 1893 with the Nor-
folk and Western Railroad.

In 1893 he organized the Wachovia Loan and
Trust Company, which was merged in 1911
with the Wachovia National Bank, which insti-
tution he headed at the time of his death. It
is the largest bank in the state and the oldest
bank and trust company in North Carolina.
In 1896 he established the Mayo Mills, around
which grew the town of Mayodan, and three
years later he built the Avalon Mills. In 1903
he took a leading part in the organization of
the Washington Mills and also became inter-
ested in the Winston-Salem Southbound Rail-
road. In addition to being a director and officer
in a number of mills at the time of his death,
he was president of Brown & Williamson To-
bacco Company.

Among the survivors is a brother, Henry F.

Fries, ’78, of Winston-Salem.
J. W. McLauchlin, ’74
John Williamson MclLauchlin, another 1874
graduate of Davidson, died at his home in

Raeford on June 23rd, following several weeks’
illness with typhoid fever. He was declared to
be one of the most highly esteemed, and re-
spected citizens of his county and that part of
the state, and was likewise a developer in his
own territory and his own way.

Before coming to Davidson in 1870, he served
in the War Between the States, and after ob-
taining his education he materially assisted in
the rehabilitation program. For a few yfars he
‘taught then entered the naval stores
and mereantile business in South Carolina, later
selling out and returning to his native section.
There he re-entered the same line of endeavor,
and accumulated one of the largest land estates
in North Carolina,

Mr.

‘sts.

school,

McLauchlin was versatile in his inter-
He was superintendent of the Raeford
sunday School for half a century, and was at
ne ‘time Moderator of the General Assembly
f the Southern Presbyterian Church. He served
s a State Senator for three terms, and literally
‘efused to serve as a Congressman from his
listrict. He founded the town of Raeford and
Raeford Institute, and was instrumental in the
‘orming of Hoke County. He was a trustee of
Davidson from: 1909 until a few years ago. Mr.
McLauchlin remembered Davdson in his will.

Dr. John R. Irwin, ’75

Dr. John ‘Robinson Irwin, an 1875 alumnus
of Davidson, died at his home in Charlotte on
June 28th after several weeks’ illness. He was
one of the best known surgeons and physicians
in North Carolina and the southeast, and for
54 years had served humanity in this capacity.

After leaving Davidson, Dr. Irwin studied
medicine privately, and in 1875 entered the
University of Maryland School of Medicine and
graduated in 1877. After one year as clinical
assistant in the University Hospital at Balti-
more, he returned to this county and later
moved to Charlotte to practice. He rose to the
presidency of the North Carolina Medical As-
sociation and was a member of the national
body.

Dr. Irwin became a member of the faculty of
the North Carolina Medical College in 1902
and for several years filled the chair of gynecol-
ogy and abdominal surgery. He was one of
the founders. of the Presbyterian Hospital and
had a large part in its growth and development.
For a long time he was a member and _ vice-
president of the trustees of Charlotte College
for Women, later Queens, and for several years
Was a trustee of Davidson.

Among his survivors are four sons, Dr. Hen-
derson Irwin, '06, Eureka; Herbert Irwin, ’03,
Charlotte; Batte Irwin, '09, of Brooklyn, N.
Y., and Sheriff John R. Irwin, Jr., 209, of
Charlotte.

Rev. Neal Anderson, ’85

Neal Larkin Anderson, D.D., an ‘1885
graduate of Davidson, and widely known in the
South as a clergyman and author, died suddenly
in Montgomery, Ala., on» May ‘19th. Several
months before his death he resigned as pastor
of the Independent Presbyterian Church at Sa-
vannah, Ga., and had established a residence at
Winston-Salem, speaking in different parts of
the South. He had in ill health
year,

After graduation here, Dr. Anderson taught
for two years at Clinton, N. C., then entering
Princeton, where he obtained his M.A. degree.
In 1890 he graduated from Princeton Theolog-
ical Seminary. He was pastor at Clinton, N.
C., Montgomery, Ala., Winston-Salem and Sa-
vannah, In 1916 he was selected president of
Austin Theological Seminary, two years later
going to Savannah. At the time of his death Me
was doing special stewardship work.

Dr, the author of several
books, including ‘a volume of sermons, ‘God's
World and Word,” and “With Wings,” an ac-
count of an airplane trip over Europe about
three years before his death. He was the in-
ventor of .the carriage return on the Under-
wood typewriter, Davidson conferred upon him

Rev.

been for a

Anderson was

the D.D. degree, and he served as a trustee of
this institution for almost a decade, from 1912
until two years ago.

Dr. L. D. Wharton, ’91

Dr. Lacy Donnell Wharton, 1891 graduate of
Davidson, died of a sudden heart attack at his
home in Smithfield on June 15th. Dr. Wharton
had been in ill health for several years, and his
death affected that entire section, where he was
prominent as a physician and a leader in many
enterprises.

After his graduation here, he attended the
Medical School at Tulane University, where he
obtained his degree. He first started his practice
at Red Springs, but moved to Smithfield in
1896, where he remained until his death. He
was superintendent of the Sunday School for
about 30 years, was a methber of the Smithfield
school board, and was a director in the First
Citizens’ National Bank & Trust Company at
the time of his death.

Among his survivors are five sons, W. L.
Wharton, ‘17, of Winston-Salem; D. B. Whar-
ton, ’24, of New York; L. D. Wharton, Jr.,
'27, of New York; J. G. Wharton, ’28, of Bos-
ton, Mass., and Watson Wharton, ’30, of Smith-
field.

Rev. E. P. Bradley, ’95

Rev. Edward Pascal Bradley, an 1895 gradu-
ate of Davidson, died at a Salisbury hospital
on May 28th. At the time of his death his home
was at Mocksville, where he was pastor of the
Mocksville Presbyterian Church, in which ca-
pacity he had been serving for 20 years.

Mr. Bradley obtained his divinity degree from
Union Theological Seminary, and following his
graduation there he served pastorates in Lincoln,
Granville and Halifax counties, going to Mocks-
ville in 1912. For the past 16 years he had
been superintendent of the Davie County
Schools, and wa’ instrumental in starting sev-
eral mission churches in that country. He was
active in other phases of church affairs.

Dr. D. M. Douglas

Rey. Davidson McDowell Douglas, D.D., an-
other 1895 graduate of Davidson, died suddenly
at his home in Columbia, S. C., on August Ist.
At the time of his death he was president of
the University of South Carolina, where he had
served for the past four years.

Dr. Douglas began his ministerial training
at Louisville Theological Seminary, and com-
pleted it at Columbia Seminary in 1899, being
awarded his master’s degree at the University
of South Carolina the same year. Following
post-graduate work at Princeton and at Johns
Hopkins University, he spent his early ministry
in North Carolina churches. From 1904 to 1911,
he was pastor of the Maryland Avenue Pres-
byterian Church in Baltimore, andthe latter
year assumed the presidency of Presbyterian
College, where he remained until he went to the
University in 1927,

Honorary degrees conferred upon Dr. Doug-
las were Doctor of Divinity, given by David-
in 1912, and Doctor of Laws, conferred
by Southwestern University in 1924. He was
a past Moderator of the Synod of South Caro-
lina and was a trustee of Columbia Theological
Seminary.

Among the survivors are three brothers, Dr.
J. M. Douglas and Dr. J. L. Douglas, both
1893 graduates and members of the faculty of

son

Davidson, and R. LL.’ Douglas, ’99, of Ches-
terion Gr
H. D. Brown, '96
Henry Dockery Brown, 1896 alumnus of

Davidson and prominent insurance man, died
(Continued on page 6)

eal N00

can be done.

THE GREATEST
UNDERWEAR VALUE

You can pay more than HANES costs—but you can’t get more.
Just try to match HANES values.

There’s the Gold Label Light Weight Union Suit or Shirts and
Drawers. SAMSONBAK Athletic Union Suits with the tug-of-war
belt. That’s patented and can’t be imitated. Pull-Over Shirts and
Shorts in a variety that will make it easy for the most fastidious
to choose from. All at prices that will make you, wonder how it

P.“H. HANES KNITTING CO., Winston-Salem, N. C.
ECSU

