SENIOR EXAMS ATHLETIC TEAMS __
=” |The Davidsonian
: ' “ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”
Volume XVIII i DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 13, 1931 No. 28

George Pardingtén, Jr.
To Represent Davidson
In Atwater Kent Tryout

Has Won Contest & at College and
State for Last Two Years

KOONCE IS ALTERNATE

Mr. Doux, Mrs. G. K. Johnston, and
Mrs. Elsie Moseley Are Judges

Last Thursday evening in connection with
the National Music Week exercises, the
Atwater Kent Radio Audition was held in
Chambers Auditorium to determine who will
represent Davidson at the state contest next
fall. George Pardington, Jr., of Scottdale,
Ga., was winner of the contest, with J. D.
Koonce as alternate.

For the past two years, Davidson -has been
represented at the state contest by George
Pardington, Last year George went to Nash-
ville to represent North Carolina in the dis-
trict meeting. He is now a Junior, sings

baritone in the college quartet, and is a
member of the Glee Club.
The judges of the contest, were: Mr.

Jules Doux, Mrs. Grace Kohn Johnston, and
Mrs. Elsie Moseley, all of Charlotte. After
the contest, two request numbers were given
by Mr. Doux, baritone, accompanied by
Mrs. Moseley.

The following students participated in
the contest: George Pardington, Jr., bari-
tone,-who sang a Scottish ballad and “A
Dream”; J. D. Koonce, lyric tenor, who
sang, “Ah, Moon of My Delight,” and “Ah,
Though the Silver Moon Were Mine”; and
Johnny Marvin, tenor, who gave “Little
Mother of Mine,” and “Kashmiri Song.”
Rave Caldwell, baritone, sang “The Old
Road,” and “Homing”; Robert Lynn, bass,
gave “The Hunter's Loud Hallo,” and
“Thoughts of You,” while L. T. Newland,
baritone, sang “Gray Days” and “Rose in
the Bud.”

Ernest Emurian, the college organist, and
Miss Ruth Siler accompanied the contestants.
Miss Siler has instructed three of the con-
testants. The other three received their
training in the Glee Club.

Pres. H. E. Rondthaler
Speaks at Exercises

Of O. D. K. Fraternity

“Spirit of Imagination Kindled” is
Topic for Address by Salem
College President

BANQUET GIVEN NEW MEN
Dr. Rondthaler Says Force of

Imagination Makes Studies
Interesting

“The things which endure in one’s educa-
tion cannot always be gotten from the books
studied, but are generally secured by some-
thing which I have called the ‘spirit of im-
agination,’” said Dr. Howard E. Rondthaler,
president of Salem College, Winston-Salem,
in speaking at the open initiation exercises
of Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary
leadership society, at Davidson College.

“The one thing which I would add to
my educational curriculum is this vital. im-
agination, this force that will bring out the
fiving things. in each subject, and will carry
the student, impellingly, on into the subject,
enlarging and stimulating his mental proc-
ess,” said the noted educator.

Dr. Rondthaler “reminisced” with his au-
dience over his early schooling, his first les-
son learned in a small basement room, with
chanted exercises, old fashioned punishments,
under an old maid school teacher. Then he
spoke of his higher work, in a room a cen-
tury old when he studied in it, a room which
George Washington had visited. Then finally
his college days.

“But,” continued the speaker, “the most
important, single vital factor of my educa-
tion I did not find until later. It is this
‘Spirit.of Imagination Kindled.’ I wish it
could be that every man could have this by
his side as he enters a new subject, and let

(Continued on page 4)

Members of Court
Elected d by Council

the Student cam
have recently elected the Court of Control, |
which will have charge of next year’s Fresh- |

Senior members of

men. It is composed of a judge, and mem-
bers representing the three upper classes. |

Cal Kuykendall, of Charleston, W. Va., was
elected judge. Cal is a member of the Sigina |
Phi Epsilon social fraternity, is ex- vice- |
president of the Eumenean Literary Society, |
and is on the varsity football squad. The |
members from the rising Senior class are:
Mick Bradshaw, of New York City; George |
O'Hanlon, of Fayetteville, and John D. Mc-
Connell, of Davidson. The rising Junior
class members are: Al Grant, of Mebane, |
N. C., and Jake MacKorell, of York, S. C. |
John O'Keefe, of Bluefield, W.° Va., and)
Andy Manson, of Jacksonville, Fla. are
members of the court from the rising Se
omore class.

The Court of Control was &fablished here |
in 1923 after a vote of the student body to |
abolish hazing. It is the duty of the court |
to regulate and: control the Freshmen
their contact.with the upper classmen.

in
piseegire te eam POA Rs

Conway and Gorrell to
be Publication Managers

A. J. Baker Completes Trio of

Managers for Next Year |
Last week, P. M. Conway,/6f Henderson, |
Ky., was appointed business manager of the |
Davidsonian by the publications board. He |
succeeds J. A. Cannon, of Concord, in this |
position. For the last three years he has |
served on the business staff of the paper and |
during the past year held the office of as- |
sistant business manager.

Conway is a member of the Junior class |
and belongs to Sigma Alpha Epsilon social |
fraternity. He is prominent on the campus |
not only for his work on the publications |
but also as an athlete. During the past sea- |
son he was captain of thé’ varsity wrestling |
team and was state champion in his weight. |
Conway has also been on the varsity foot- |
ball squad for the last two years. He is
secretary and treasurer of the “D” Club and |
secretary and treasurer of the local chap-
ter of Stabbard and Blade, national honor-
ary military fraternity. Recently he was
elected vice-president of the North Carolina
Collegiate Press Association at its conven- |
tion in Raleigh.

No staff has as yet been chosen.
will be announced at a later date.

Robert W. Gorrell, of Winston-Salem, was
elected business manager of Quips and

Continued on page 4)

This |

|

4

Raker is President |
of 1931-32 “D” Club

Tae) |

At a recent meeting of the ““D” Club, |
the officers for next year were chosen. L. S.
Raker was elected president, to succeed |
Hub Covington H. S. Brown was made |
vice-president, and P. M. Conway was elect- |
ed secretary and treasurer.

Raker is a member of the Kappa Alpha
social fraternity, first sergeant in the R. O. |
T. C. department, member of the Student |
Council for next year, letter man in both)
football and wrestling, and won his Fresh-
man numeral in football.

Brown made his letter last year in foot- |
ball, and is a member of both. the basket- |
ball and track teams. For the past year
Brown was one of the vice-presidents of
the Athletic Association. In his Freshman
year he made his numeral in football.
Through his exceptional football ability he
was made All-State end for the past sea-
son.

P. M. Conway is a member of the Sigma
Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, was elected
business manager of the Davidsoni for
next year, made his letter in wrestling, and
was captain of this year’s wrestling 1eam,
first sergeant in R. O. T. C. unit, secre-
tary and ‘treasurer of Scabbard and Blade,
and was recently elected vice-president of the
North Carolina Collegiate Press aeoeea:
tion.

| ing

jof St.

“Excellent” Rating

Notification has been received by
the R. O. T. C. department of Dav-
idson College that the local unit has
again been awarded the “excellence”
rating by the War Department for
its work this year, announced Lieut.
Col. W. R. Scott, commandant of
the local unit, today. This rating is
based on the results of the inspec-
tion conducted here two or three
weeks ago by the War Department
inspectors.

Ths makes the sixth consecutive
year that the Davidson corps has
received the highest ranking given
by the War Department to R. O. T.
C. units. Davidson’s military depart-
ment was designated as ‘“dis-
tinguished” for two years while that
ranking was used, and for the past
three years has enjoyed the top
ranking by being named “excellent,”
under the new system of rating now
used. Col. Scott said that Davidson's
percentage this year was the high-
est ever given it by the War De-
part, and that the inspectors were
particularly high in their praise of
the local unit.

Annual “Mother’s Day”
Program is Conducted
by Mrs.Robert Glasgow

Nat Spier, H. S. Covington, and Bob
Gorrell Assist in Carrying Out
Program

MUSIC IS BY MRS. VOWLES

Moral, Mental, and Physical
Strength in Life is Stressed

A special “Mother's Day” program was
held at the regular vesper hour last Sunday
afternoon. Nat G. Speir read a few verses
from the 3lst chapter of Proverbs. Hub S.
Covington and Bob W. Gorrell prayed, and
| Mrs. G. R. Vowles sang a lullaby. Mr. Speir
in introducing Mrs. Robert Glasgow, Of
Charlotte, said that she is. peculiarly fitted
to speak to Davidson men on the program
because she is the mother of three boys and
a good friend of the college.

Mrs. Glasgow, in beginning her talk, de-

| clared that it is a privilege to come to Da-

vidson and speak. Stating that she was go-
to talk to the boys as their mothers
talked to them. She radiated personality and
maintained this sympathetic attitude from
the beginning to the end. She asserted that
| mothers’ feelings are universal in that they

lall have the same hopes, desires, and dreams

} for their children. It isa rare occurrence
|to find a family circle that is not broken;
continued Mrs, Glasgow, andethose fortunate
| people that enjoy this unity should realize
| how blessed they are. The speaker claimed
that mothers know that they are often defi-
cient, but how anxious they are to improve

jand give their offspring the same advan-
tages that other children enjoy!
Mrs. Glasgow differs with Dean Inge

Paul's Cathedral, who believes that
| humanity today is. harmless and everybody
tries to be happy and simply have a good
time. She considers “He’’ men needed more
now than ever before and asks where they
will come from if they don’t come from Da-

| vidson with its environment and great back-

| ground. According to some people, the way
(Continued on page 4)

Phi and Eu Elections

Last Tuesday night both Literary
Societies held their election of offi-
cers for the coming year.

The new officers elected in Eume-
nean are as follows: C. W. Kuyken-
dall, President; C. E. Moore, Vice-
President; J. S. Mackerell, Treas-
urer; F. R. Hellegers, Secretary, and
YR. P. Enloe, Critic.

Those elected in Philanthropic
are: H. W. Ryburn, President; J.
C. Whitley, Vice-President; W. L.
Fugate, Secretary; D. D. McBryde,
Treasurer; and H. F. Nichol, Critic.

RECITAL ON SKINNER
GIVEN BY DR.

Five Men Initiated
By Phi Beta Kappa

The Phi Beta Kappa initiation was held
Friday night at 7:30 o'clock. This fraternity
is the first of American Greek letter fra-
ternities and recognizes scholarship. The
men initiated were: Paul R. Alderman, Jr.,
A.B. 2, Alcolu, S. C.; James Roy Caldwell,
Jr., A.B. 2, Davidson, N. C.; Albert Wal-
lace Cowan, B.S. ‘1, Bristol, Tenn.; John
Wilson McCutchan, A.B. 2, Warm Springs,
Va.; and Dean Rusk, A.B, 2, Atlanta, Ga.
An interesting fact is that only one. North
Carolina man achieved this distinction, and
that with one exception, every Phi Beta
takes an A.B. course.

Three Secretaries Are
Chosen in Class Voting

Henry McFadyen, Bob Glasgow,
and Andy Hanson Are Elected
in Closing Ballots

the recent elections for the ensuing
Henry McFadyen, of Donelson, Tenn.,
was chosen secretary-treasurer on the third
ballot.

Bill Rule, George O'Hanlon, Kemp Mor-
ton, Pete Knox, and Henry McFadyen were
the candidates for the office, Bill Rule and
George O'Hanlon being eliminated on the
first ballot. The second ballot left Knox and
McFadyen in the race.

In
year,

Bob Glasgow, of Charlotte, N. C., was
elected secretary and treasurer of the rising
Junior class on the first ballot. He defeated
Meade Bernard, of Jacksonville, Fla., and
John Boyd, of Chartotte, N. C., for office.

Glasgow is a member of Phi Delta Theta
social fraternity, assistant manager of the
varsity basketball team, is,on the business
staff of Quips and Cranks, and is prominent
for his part in local “Y” work. He is serv-
ing as one of the Sophomore cheerleaders
this season. Last year Glasgow received his
numerals for his work the
track team.

on Freshman

Andy Manson was elected secretary-treas-
urer of the rising Sophomore class. Manson
is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon
social fraternity, was a member of the Fresh-
‘man football squad, and made his numeral
in Freshman basketball.

The following men were nominated: Jim
Aalverstadt, Rufus Morrow, Owen Ravenel,
Sam Alexander, Don Davies, Sam Wilson,
Bob Evans, Bill Stanley, Alex Schenck,
Suck Kirkland, Alex Haliburton, Andy
Manson, Harvey Curlee, Joe Dill and Al
bert Colwell.

On the first ballot the following men
were left in the race: Jim Halverstadt,
Rufus Morrow, Sam Alexander, Don Davies,
Bob Evans, Alex Schenck, Andy Manson.
On the second ballot the race was narrowed
down to Rufus Morrow, Sam Alexander,
Bob Ivans, Alex Schenck, and Andy Man-
On the third ballot Manson and Mor-
row remained in the running. Manson was
elected on the fourth ballot.

son,

Officers for Class Day
Exercises are Elected

Last Wednesday night, May 6, following
the organ recital by Dr. Baldwin, the Senior
class gathered at the Maxwell Chambers
Hotel for a smoker. A short talk was made
by Ernest Milton, alumni secretary, on the
work of the Davidson Alumni Association,
of which the Seated will soon become mem-
bers,

The election of participants in the Class
Day exercises which take place June bk was
held. Jas. A. Jones is to be the class orator;
J. B. Black, Jr., class poet, and Paul Alder-
man, class historian. Albert McClure was
elected class valedictorian and Charles
Kramer, class salutatorian. These last two
officers are not to be confused with those

(Continued on page 5)

ORGAN |
M. C.. BALDWIN

Famous Artist Received by Largest
Audience Ever to Attend Recital
at Davidson

IS INTERN ATIONALLY KNOWN

Many Recuest Numbers Rendered
Among Regular Selections on
Program (ee

\

On Wednesday night, May 6, Dr. Minor
C. Baldwin, organist of international fame,
gave an organ recital on the Skinner organ
in Chambers Auditorium. Dr. Baldwin's se-
lections, some of which were request num-
bers, including the following :

yToceata and Fugue in D Minor—Bach,

Reverie—His own composition.
movements from

Siciliana and Presto

Bonnet’s Organ Concerto.

Two movements from the G Major Suite
of Bach,

His own arrangements of
Schubert. This arrangement, which made
Dr, Baldwin brought forth more
applause than any other number of the re-
cital.

Meditation—By himself.

Am Mer by

famous,

Selections from the opera Il Trovatore
by Verdi. ¢

Selections from Semiramide Overture of
Rossini. ‘

Variations on the hymn tune, “God Be
With You 'Til We Meet Again.”

And as an encore, his arrangement of
Dixie.

Dr. Baldwin's color effects on the organ

that it
acquired fame as
Am Mer, he
brought forth effects of waves rippling on
the Though Dr. Baldwin's tech-
nical skill is not perfect, due to his age, he
compensates for that by his varied colorful

effective
had
In his rendition of

and
seen how he

were so subtle Was
readily

an organist.

sea sands.

shadings that he adds to his selections.

The famous organist was well received by
the largest audience ever to attend ‘an organ
recital of any kind at Davidson.

A.H. Whitehead Succeeds
J.A.Cannon as New Head

of Pan-Hellenic Council

Banquet Will Be Given to Retiring
Council by Newly Elected Group

During the past week the election of the
Pan-Hellenic Council for the year
was completed. The new officers were elect-
ed with the result that Allen Whitehead, a
member of the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity, is
and ld Kuykendall, of Kappa
is secretary and treasurer. The new
council does not go into office until next
year,
finals.

coming

president,
Sigma,

the old council having charge of the
As is the custom, a banquet will be
given the retiring council Wednesday night
by the newly-elected group.

Each social fraternity elects one represen-
(Continued on page 4)

Y.M.C.A. Board of
Control is Elected

completed here Saturday,
members of the Board of Control of the
Nae a Oey Davidson College were
chosen for the coming year. Dr. H. B. Ar-
buckle, member of the Davidson faculty,
was reéelected to his place on the board, and
S. S. Wiley, of Salisbury, was named as a
Senior member. There was no one running
on the ballot against these two.

W. A. Flinn, of Atlanta, Ga., and R. L.
McCallie, of Chattanooga, Tenn., were
chosen as Junior. members, being elected on
the second ballot. Both of these men are
members of the Kappa Alpha social fra-
ternity, and are on the varsity track squad.
R. L. McCallie is also on the staff of the
Davidsonian.

The duties of the Board of Control are
to have charge of the budget and finances
of the local Y. M. C. A.

In elections

ot
