THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 25, 1931 7

Students to Gather at
Religious Convention to

Be Held at Buffalo, N. Y.

Gathering Will Discuss Four Major
Problems Confronting the Christian
World of Today

4,000 WILL ATTEND

Many Prominent Speakers and Reli-
gious Leaders Will Be Present

China and Japan at each other’s throats—a
League disarmament conference in February
which will powerfully influence world history
in the years ahead—India agonizing in her
struggle to work out her national destiny—a
tottering economic system that produces indus-
trial conflict and unemployment the world over

—shall we in America be mere spectators, or |
can, should, will thinking students haye any |

small part in helping toward the solution of
these and other similar crises that are rack-
ing the world today? Is there any contribution
they can make, any point where their thinking
can dig in right now?

Certainly the dizzy rapidity of present world
changes demands that they give careful thought
to the place of religion in the present world
order; while, by the same token, the rapid
modifications in the Christian missionary en-
terprise necessitate a new and penetrating ap-
praisal of the whole purpose and technique of
foreign missions.

The most significant student religious gath-
ering during the present academic year will be
the meeting of the Eleventh Quadrennial Con-
vention of the Student Volunteer Movement,
at Buffalo, New York, December 30, 1931, to
January 3, 1932, Four thousand delegates from
the colleges and universities of the United
States and Canada are expected to gather there
to consider :

1. The present world situation. ~

2. The place of Christ in this world-picture.

3. The present problems facing world Chris-
tianity.

4. The future of Christian missions.

The program is being arranged with the ad-
vice of some of the best student religious lead-
ers and gives every indication of being extreme-
ly effective. The round table idea for groups
has been especially adapted to the needs of
this convention. Qualified and informed leaders
on different phases of the convention purpose
will lead enlarged “fireside conversations” to
introduce the students to some vital spot of
their own knowledge and experience. This is de-
signed to produce discussion without “the pool-
ing of ignorance,” and education without the
perpetuation of prejudice.

Such a convention as this is inevitably judged
largely by the group of leaders whom it brings
together. A full list of these would be too
lengthy for publication here, but merely to
name a few of them will give an idea of the
calibre and quality of leadership which is being
enlisted for this gathering:

Dr. John R. Mott, formerly General Secretary
of the National Committee of the Y. M. C. A.,
and now Chairman of the International Mis-
sionary Council.

Dr. Walter H. Judd, medical missionary in
China during the past six years where his own
hospital has been overrun seven times by Com-
munist or bandit troops.

Kirby Page, author, speaker, and editor of
“The World Tomorrow.”

Paul W. Harrison, M.D., for over twenty
years a medical missionary in Arabia.

Dr. Samuel M. Zwemer, noted authority on
the Mohammedan world.

Dr. Robert E. Speer, Secretary of the Board |

of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church.

There will also be leaders in the Christian
work of other countries, such as Dr. T. Z. Koo,
of China, and Dr. D. D. T. Jabavu of Africa.

The convention is the eleventh in a series of
quadrennial conventions sponsored by the Stu-
dent Volunteer Movement, which for over forty
years has been stimulating college students to
a more intelligent attitude toward world Chris-
tianity, and seeking recruits for Christian sery-
ice abroad. But the conference is in no sense
limited to prospective missionaries, It will be
thoroughgoing and thoughtful but not technical
in its approach. It is planned for all students
who really propose to take the message of
Christ seriously, and who are eager to do some-
thing to help make His resources available for
a distressed world.

Phi’s Officers Were
Recently Installed

At its regular meeting last night at 7 p. m.,
the Phi Society held its quarterly meeting of
installing officers. The present officers are
Roger Hall, president; Stuart Noblin, vice-
president; W. L. Fugate, secretary; D. D. Mc-
Bryde, treasurer; Bill Cartey, critic; Herbert
Lucas, supervisor.

The program for next week is as follows:
Debate, “Resolved, -that. the dissemination of
contraceptive information should be legalized.”
Those upholding i a a are W. M. E.
Rachel, D. D. McBryde, and Courtney Ross.
Those on the negative are Stuart Noblin, Felix
Gee, Raymond Steadman. The public and stu-
dents are cordially invited. ~

ALUMNI PERSONALS of Raeford, will be presented to Hoke County
about December 25th.. The bust is being de-
signed by W. T. Covington, of Raeford, father

of two Davidson graduates.

(Continued from page 4)

of Charlotte, will be married on November
27th, and William J. Armfield, III, ’28, of
Asheboro, and Miss Elizabeth Allen, of Wel-|  E.
don, will be married on November 28th.

Friends will regret to learn of the death of
Mrs. J. A. Abernethy, Sr., of Lincolnton,
mother of R.. S. Abernethy, ’99, of Winter
Haven, Fla., and J. D. Abernethy, '07, and J.
A. Abernethy, Jr., '19, both of Lincolnton.

S. Christenbury, '26, is coaching and teach-
jing at Plymouth.
i Rel ST

John S. Alden, ’30, is a member of the teach-
ing staff at Porter Military Academy at
Charleston, S. C. He joined R. T. Ellett, ’30,
who is now in his second year as a member
of the faculty at Porter.

Three Davidson College alumni have been

named on the committee of one hundred to di- J. W
| rect a campaign for Democratic funds in this GLA
| state. They include Dr. John T. Burrus, 1900,

|of High Point; Allison James, 07, of Winston-
| Salem, and Bailey Patrick, ’19, of Hickory.

. Brown, '12, who is heading Y. M.
. work at Bucuresti, Roumania, recently
sett the alumni office a group photograph taken
in the gymnasium of the Y. M. C. A. in that
city. In the photo with Mr. Brown are ex-
King George and ex-Queen Elizabeth of Greece;
Niculae Mishu, Roumanian Davis cup player,

A bust of the late John W. McLauchlin, ’74,

and Miss Golescu, woman’s singles champion of | ston-Salem, on Saturday, November 14th.” Mr.
the Balkans. In his accompanying letter Mr.| Creech was graduated in the class of 1929, and
Brown said that “our Association continues to | since finishing here he has been associated with
go forward with an ever increasing group of|his father in the furniture business at Winston-
influential Roumanions supporting the move- | Salem. After December 1, Mr. and Mrs. Creech
ment,” and then told about the success of a! will be at home in Winston-Salem.

summer camp,

ALUMNI MARRIAGES pick tirbeah fbnerhcn tb

| Announcement has been made of the marriage
|of Miss Mary Elizabeth Ratledge, of Advance,
lto Cyrus Donald McCrary, of Lexington, the
| marriage taking place in the First Presbyterian
| Church of Thomasville on Saturday, November
| 14. Rev. J. K. Fleming, 19, pastor of the church,
| performed the ceremony. Mr. McCrary was a
member of the Freshman class at Davidson last
year and is now associated with the Lexington
Perpetual Building and Ioan Association. Mrs.

“Mr. and Mrs, J. Fred Thompson, of Lex-| McCrary attended Salem and N. C. C. W.,
ington, announce the marriage of their daugh-| and has more recently been teaching music in
ter, Louise, to Charles L. Creech, Jr., of Win-|the Advance and Smith Grove schools.

(Continued from page 4)
vidson in 1928, and immediately went to Union
Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., where
he completed his course last May. He is pastor
of a group of churches in Virginia, and has
his. residence at Mill Gap.

Creech-Thompson

Foxs who smoke really fresh cigarettes made
from choice sun-ripened tobaccos never have to
give a thought to their throats.

That’s because such fresh cigarettes retain natural
moisture — and are gratefully smooth, cool, throat-
friendly, mild.

Camels are the fresh cigarette— everyone knows
that now—they’re blended from the finest Turkish
and mild Domestic tobaccos that money and skill
can buy.

We would never dream of parching or toasting

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company’s Coast-to-Coast

“You n .
1 know camel '5
_ |

because they’re
CAMELS are never parched or toasted?

eedn't tell me

. 7
the fresh cigarette:

fresh

these choice sun-ripened tobaccos—that would only
drive off or destroy the natural moisture that makes
Camels fresh in nature’s own mild way.

The Camel Humidor Pack protects a fine cigarette
fresh with natural moisture — it could do little or
nothing to freshen a cigarette that is dried-out or
factory-stale.

If you smoke for pleasure, see for yourself what
freshness means in mildness and flavor —switch to
Camels for just one day—then leave them, if you can!

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY
Winston-Salem, N. C.

Radio Programs

Ca

CAMEL QUARTER HOouR, Morton Downey, Tony
Wons, and Camel Orchestra, direction Jacques
Renard, every night except Sunday, Columbia
Broadcasting System

@ Don’t remove the moisture-proof wrapping from your
package of Camels after you open it. The Camel Humidor
Pack is protection against perfume and powder odors,
dust and germs. In offices and homes, even in the dry
atmosphere of artificial heat, the Camel Humidor Pack
delivers fresh Camels and keeps them right until the last

one has been smoked :

See local paper for time

MELS

Made FRESH=— Kept FRESH

PRINCE ALBERT QUARTER HOUR.Alice Joy,“Old
Hunch,” and Prince Albert Orchestra, direc-
tion Paul Van Loan, every night except Sun-
day, N.B.C. Red Network

 ouersey.

@ 1981. B. J, Reynolds Tobaces Company

