2

THE DAVIDSONIAN,

DECEMBER 2, 1931

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly ‘For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year, Entered as second/class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

RIER
. CON

MARTIN.

----Editor-in-Chief
WAY.

ode Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

hon]
J)

GUER T. .--Managing Editor
cBRYDE....... Petit Tee pepe > Manacing Editor
cCALLIE ---Managing Editor
oe ee Managing Editor
-.-Athletic Editor
itor
ditor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor

Exchange
---Associate

-Associate
Associate

BUSINESS STAFF
SON_..-....-.---------Assistant Business
E.

Manager
..-Assistant Business Manager
Manager

Manager

Assistant Business
Subscription

SUCCESS

Jor several years the business managers of the
publications of the college have had difficulty in
making ends meet, because of the rule of the
Charlotte Merchants’ Association which forbade
advertising in college ‘publications by any of its
members. With this handicap it was indeed hard
for the managers to secure a sufficient amount of
advertising to pay for the publication of the paper
or magazine. For that reason the ruling has for
a long time been a sore spot for the Davidson
publications.

By a recent change of policy the Association has
decided to allow the solicitations of ads by the
publications. In last week’s Davidsonian appeared
the first ad of a Charlotte merchant. Others (it
is hoped) will follow.

The student body expresses its appreciation for
this consideration by the Merchants’ Association,
and feels that the results in business and good-
will will justify the act.

This action by the people of Charlotte should
lead to a better feeling between that city and the
students of Davidson than has existed before.

tor
tor
tor
Tt | Solicitor

President
..-.Vice- President
—-Secretary-Treasurer
H. COVINGTON
GAMBLE
. E. LORRAINE
. L. POWELL
PRATT-THOMAS
F. SCHENCK
W. M. THOMPSON
W. T. THOMPSON
J. A. HUNTER

—
=— —

DECEMBER 2, 1931"

1, W. CLARDY. JR.
JACK WILLIAM

Wisdom ts ofttimes nearer when we stoop
Than when we soar. -—— Wordsworth

PARAGRAPHICS

With less football games to write up,-the sports
writers turn to thé picking of All-American, AIll-
Southern, All-State, or other kinds oif representa-
tive teams.

——D

The authorities of the various institutions which
have scheduled post-season charity games are to
be congratulated for their spirit of co-operation.

D.

One could well have believed he was in London
recently, if the existing weather conditions were con-
sidered.

D.

The League of Nations has a remarkable oppor-
tunity to demonstrate its power and usefulness by
settling the present disturbances in the Far East.
Unless they, are able to bring about a peaceful end
to the quarrel, it will seem that they are only a group,
without power.

| py

The editorial appearing in last week’s Davidsonian
on “The Danger of Provincialism” was written by
C. F. Myers.

|p

An article on the coming “Y” campaign appears
in this issue of the paper. Students will be interested
to see that after two years for Home Missions the
fund is this year to be given to Foreign Missions.

D.

The annual photographer will be here again next
week, and, according to the editor, this will be
absolutely the last opportunity to have pictures made.
It’s the annual of all the students; all should have
their pictures in it.

THE PHYSICAL SIDE OF EDUCATION

From our very first contacts with education to
our present status as college students emphasis
has been laid always on the mental side of edu-
cation. We were taught in our homes that the
development of the mind was supreme in our
schooling, In grammar school and: later in high
school the same principle was drilled into us.
The only objection to this training is that it in
itself does not provide for the development of a
sound and healthy body in which to lodge this
mind. In youth this training and care of the body
is hardly thought necessary, as the parents are
ever watchful of the health of their children.
Then, too, it is difficult enough to prevent a young
person from devoting too much of his time to
play and exercise.

At the beginning of his college career, however,
he realizes more fully the necessity of cultivating
his mental traits, and therefore neglects the exer-
cise necessary for good health. Many college stu-
dents have been forced to leave college because
of ill health, caused by lack of proper attention
to the physical side of his education.

To alleviate this difficulty educators have been
experimenting with various plans to include phys-
ical development as a vital part of the curriculum
of the college or university. At Davidson much
has been done along this line. It is now com-
pulsory for every student to take a certain amount
of exercise each week. The system is flexible
enough to allow each individual to take the kind
of exercise he desires. Aside from this, physical
development is being promoted by intra-mural and
inter-fraternity sports of all kinds, a well-equipped
‘gymnasium, and encouraging a greater number to
enter the field of varsity athletics.

The ideal to which the authorities are working

is a man well versed in intellectual matters, with .

a sound body, and the ability. to mingle with his
fellows in a social way.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

Winthrop

The South Carolina Press Association will meet at
Columbia on December 3 and 4. At this convention there
will be representatives from»college publications all over
the state. The hosts to this meeting will be the University
of South Carolina and Columbia College. Winthrop will
have four representatives at this meeting: two from
The Winthrop Journal and two from The Johnsonian.

At our neighbor in South Carolina, Winthrop, there
was recently held the first model League of Nations.
International questions and relations were pondered, grave
questions asked, and treaties were made and abrogated.
There was at this meeting a man of no little note, Mr.
C, Douglas Booth, who spoke to the Davidson student
body about two weeks ago. Mr. Booth spoke to this
League of Nations on international affairs.

Duke

This Durham institution will conduct its fall religious
services all of this week. The speaker at these services
will be Dr. Frank Kingdon, pastor of one of the larger
churches of Greater New York City. He will.make, in
all, fifteen talks to the students of Duke, as he is to be
there the whole week, speaking both in the mornings,
two at that time, and at night at 7:45.

Duke’s newest. fraternity, Sigma Nu, Gamma chapter,
was installed there week before last. At this installation
there were representatives from chapters all over the
South and a few from the leading chapters in the North.
Representatives from University of North Carolina, N. C.
State and the University of South Carolina remained
the whole week-end.

We wish to quote here an editorial from The Chron-
icle on Commendable Spirit:

“Great spirit of the kind the student body of Duke is

‘capable of showing was in evidence on the entire campus

during the week-end. The pot started boiling last week
when Dean Wannamaker turned the Thursday assembly
into a pep rally in preparation for the Carolina game.

“The huge bonfire and pep meeting held adjacent to
the freshman football field eclipsed any similar gathering
ever held at Duke prior to an athletic event. Anyone who
possessed any faint idea that the student body was not
co-operating with its team must have been more than
eight or ten miles away—out of hearing distance of the
noise and vociferation.

“Cheering and yelling at the game Saturday dispelled
all our doubts concerning student support of its athletic
representatives. Duke students can cheer and yell at a
football game, as was proved at the recent Carolina clash.
The stands were in a frenzy of excitement throughout
the encounter and the supporting clamor that was emitted
from them was enough to inspire any football team with
the knowledge that its student constituency was sup-
porting it. The student body is to be congratulated for
this same cheering and yelling at the aforementioned
game.

“As pleasing to our minds as any single aspect of-the
game was the sportsmanlike manner in which the stu-
dent body conducted itself under tense, excited, and emo-
tional circumstances. When such keen rivalry as that
existing between Duke and Carolina is renewed, feelings
can be expected to reach that nervous pitch at which
they go astray and forget the principles of good sports-
manship. But we were greatly pleased to see nothing of
that kind happen here Saturday from either of the two
student bodies. A team’s showing on the field is deter-
mined largely by the student body’s attitude and its will
to win. The student body never showed a. more com-
mendable attitude nor a more pronounced will to win
than at this game. :

“The two means by which a university community can
leave an impression upon its visitors were employed for
noticeable benefit, namely: the actions of the team upon
the field and the impression which the students in the
stands leave by their actions. The showing of the team
on the field speaks for itself, but its superb demonstration
of clean sportsmanship against such a traditional rival
as Carolina speaks well for the team as such and as
individuals. j

“The conduct of the student body in the stands was
just as noteworthily outstanding in its pleasant aspects.
We were impressed with the fact that, even though there
were bad breaks which probably robbed both teams of
scores, there was no hooting of officials at a time when
censure and prejudice would’ have been tiatural in an
excited mind, The combination of the two desirable ways
of impression should result in clean, wholesome relation-
ships with other colleges.”

What Do You Think?

Dr. Henry H. Donaldson experimented with families
of albino rats and discovered that bookwormish college
students develop less brain power than muscular stu-
dents who are constantly going out for athletic teams.
He gave the results of this experiment at a nation-wide
gathering of scientists at the first of three meetings of
the National Academy of Sciences. ;

Dr. Donaldson is professor of neurology at the Wistar
Institute of Anatomy and Biology in Philadelphia. His

experiments have been conducted over a period of twenty ‘

years and were principally with afbino rats because their
physicological similarities with man warrant the influence
that the same organic changes take place. His experi-
ments showed that sturdy exercise increased the capacity
and weight of the brain and strengthened all of the other
vital organs. This may be true, but not many of us like
the idea of having our degrees of intelligence and brain
power compared with those of albino rats. It seems rather
discouraging that there is such a similarity between men
and rats. And besides, we wonder how Dr. Donaldson
made his comparisons when it came to a question of foot-
ball teams and making Phi Beta Kappa.

For any of those who might feel a fear as to the re-
ligious trends of modern college thought, the following
statement by Dr. Herbert W. Searles of the School of
Philosophy at the University of Southern California comes
as a relief and a comfort:

“Less than five per cent of college students are atheists
and twenty-four per cent of them find prayer valuable in
strengthening the will or moral power.

“Implicit faith in God was professed by an average of
eighty-one per cent of the students enrolled in five col-
leges and: universities. Approximately forty-four per cent
of the students undergo some sort of change in their con-
ception of God during the years they spend in colleges
and universities, The general trend of the student thought
is from, belief in a personal God to belief in an impersonal
God, and away from orthodoxy.

“The greatest change is noted in the junior and senior
years, and there is a swing back to a personal conception
of the Almighty after graduate study.”

When Will Rogers sailed with Floyd Gibbons to the
Orient in order to view the Manchurian hostilities, he
resolved to substitute compliments for wisecracks when
he learned that their senses of humor were practically
non-existent.

Here is Mahatma Gandhi's definition of his own Hindu
faith:

1. I believe in the Vedas, the Upanishads, the Puranas
and all that goes by the name of Hindu. Scriptures, and
therefore in Avataragy (divin@ incarnations) and rebirth.
_ 2. I believe in Varnashrama Dharma in a sense strictly
Vedic, but not in its present popular and crude sense.

3. I believe in “Cow Protection” in a mitch larger
sense than the popular belief.

4. I do not disbelieve in “idol-worship.”

5. I believe implicitly in the Hindu aphorism that no
one truly knows the Scriptures who has not attained per-
fection in Innocence (Ahimsa), Truth (Satya), and
Self-Control (Brahmacharya), and who has not re-
nounced all acquisition or possession of wealth.

6. I believe, along with every Hindu, in God and
His Oneness, in rebirth and salvation.

Roanoke College

The faculty of this institution tried a little experiment
with the~student body last week, giving them as a
Thanksgiving ‘holiday from Wednesday. afternoon until
the following Monday afternoon. If the student hody does
not abuse this privilege by cutting classes just before
and just after the holidays, this practice will be inaugurat-
ed next year.

This school has had one prominent speaker recently
and in the near future is going to have two others. Lin-
coln Steffens, a very noted newspaper man, spoke to them

a short while ago on the subject: “The Meaning of the

Russian Revolution.” Will Durant, prominent author and
philosopher, will, speak to them on “Is Democracy a
Failure?” and Sir Norman Angell, noted British pamph-
leteer, will talk on “What Is Happening in the British
Empire.”

Georgia Tech
Four members of the senior class at this Atlanta insti-
tution were recently elected to Omicron Delta Kappa,
Tech's newest national honorary society.

Auburn

We quote here an editorial on “A Tribute to Auburn’s
Coaches” :

“With all gone but an impregnable spirit the athletic
situation had sunken into the mire of dejection—there
to be kicked about by unfavorable publicity—there to be
humiliated by the scathing jabs of athletic supporters
everywhere.

“Above the chaotic turmoil every loyal Auburn sup-
porter was crying for assistance—for some force dynamic
enough to lead us to the position of the respected in the
sporting realm.

“The Joan of Arc came. We are back with the mighty.
Once more is the Auburn football team a force to he
reckoned with by any team.

“Of the present coaching staff and their part in this
phenomenal rise, enough cannot be said. Not only from
the more rabid football fans has this unstinted praise
been forthcoming; but from admirers of real men every-
where. Men who can lead men. Men who instill more
than the intricate tactics of football into their subjects.

“This season has brought wonders both in victory and
defeat. Auburn, has made a most creditable showing
against the nation’s strongest teams, and there has been
a new force at every game that has brought comfort in
the/ face of defeat.”

“|, Of Ships & Shoes—
& Sealing Wax—
Of Cabbages & Kings...”

Duncan McBryde

“AUTUMN OBILES”

Coming downward by the thousands,
Wafted windward by the breeze:
Countless hosts of leaves are falling,
Cov'ring all the earth like dew.
Like the leaves I, too, am falling,
Wafted on the wings of thought:
Falling unimpeded, helpless,
Falling fast, and hard, for YOU!

“A-SAP’S FABLES”
THERE’S NO TIME LIKE THE PLEASANT.
WHEN BETTER AUTOMOBILES ARE BUILT—
PEDESTRIANS WILL HAVE TO GO FASTER.

IT IS DARKEST JUST BEFORE THE PAWN.

23 MORE HOCKING DAYS BEFORE CHRIST-
MAS.

SOMEBODY STOLE MY GAL
(“Darn the horsethief”)
Why am I s0 blue tonight?
Why are you so gay?
Listen, darling, to my plight:
Why should you be so—hey!
Who was that I saw you with
(At such a place and time)?
(Don’t say that it was Lawyer Smith,
Though that alone will rhyme!)

Of all the people in the world
Why did you go for Jim?
You said that you were mine “always”;
And then you heard of him.
Of all the people in the world—
(O, cruel, cruel Fate!)
Why did you have to meet, and fall—
For my: ROOMMATE !! 2?! !

EXPRESSIONS OF THE TIMES

“Ahem!”...... George Bernard Pshaw.

(They quote everything ELSE that he says, and this
is all that was left. It expresses his opinion of the pres-
ent state of China, Japan, Manchuria, Tsisihar, and all
points east.)

IT WOULDN’T BE MUCH OF A GAMBLE FOR
SOME PEOPLE TO STAKE THEIR PAST
AGAINST THEIR FUTURE .... Arthur Rathbane.

(nuf sed.)

Have you noticed people who do the same
| old things, day after day, week in and week
| out, religiously? Men read the sport pages re-
ligiously; women go to the “Bargain Matinees”
| religiously; neighbors play the radio religious-
ly. People do many things religiously. In fact
we all have a routine that makes us do about
everything religiously. That is, just about every-»
thing but go to church.

Little Insights into Life in Rumple Dormitory :

“Tt awoke last night and heard the bed ticking. The
bed spread, the pillow slip (ped), and I fell in the
| spring—(s).

| CONTEMPORARY THOUGHT
| “CHARLOTTE SURE HAS GOT “IT” (I. T.).
—Bill Carter.

BEAT THIS ONE
Occasionally, when a moving picture theatre puts on
| a “double feature” day, the two titles, side by side, give
comical results. Here’s one I saw last summer, in front
of a theatre in Dobb’s Ferry, in New York: The titles
glittered—“LOVER COME BACK .... DEVIL TO
BAY!

| WHAT AILS OUR YOUTH?

| That symptomatic
Effervescence

| Is merely autumn

| is Adolescence.

| ENGLISH AS SHE IS SPOKE
| You see a beautiful girl walking down the street.
She is of course feminine. If she is singular, you be-
| come nominative. You walk across to her, changing
| to the verbal, and then becoming active. If she is
| not objective, you become plural. You walk home
| together. Her brother is an indefinite article. And
her mother is accusative. She becomes imperative.
| You talk of the future and she changes to the
interrogative. Her father b and you
| become a past participle.

rs

mes pr
