THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 9, 1931

1931 FOOTBALL
SEASON OVER

THE

SPORTS PARADE

BASKETBALL TEAM
FAST TAKING SHAPE

Duke-Carolina Downs Wake
Forest-Davidson-State 14-0

Players From All Big Five Schools
Perform Before Large Crowd in
Duke Stadium

CONTEST FOR CHARITY

Eight, Wildcats, Raker, Gardner,
Mathis, Conway, Wagner, Brown,
King, Pearce, Appear in Line-up

The headliner of several ‘post-season charity
affairs which grouped players of North Caro-
lina’s Big Five schools was won by the Duke-
Carolina combination. The universities’ aggre-
gation was victorious over the Wake Forest-

Davidson-State forces by a 14-0 score.

Five thousand football’ fans willing to do their
share in aiding charity paid their way into

. Duke Stadium to see the cream of North Car-
olina football players in action in one contest.

Fifty-nine players from the five schools took

part in the game, the winners using one less
than the losers.

Great defensive work on the part of both
aggregations marked the contest until the final
period when the Duke-Carolina team managed
to score two touchdowns. The first score came
on a short pass from Nick Laney, Duke half-
back, to Rip Slusser, Carolina back, who raced
ten yards to cross the goal. Carolina’s famous
quarterback, Johnny Branch, converted the
extra point.

Duke-Carolina’s second touchdown came in
the closing minutes of the game when Bill
Croom, Carolina back, intercepted a Wake-
Davidson-State pass and sprinted 80 yards to
cross the goal line. Kid Brewer made the extra
point good.

Another score made by Kid Brewer after a
64-yard run was nullified when the Duke-Car-
olina aggregation was penalized for holding.

Both teams worked well and executed very
few bad plays despite only two days of prac-

tice together. The losers, however, presented,

the best all-around play and offered an oppo-
sition which stopped Johnny Branch, Rip Stlus-
ser, Kid Brewer, Lowell Mason, and Nick
Laney, all-state backs. The losers also presented
a line which overshadowed a Duke-Carolina
line which contained no less than six all-state
first team players. This is confirmed by the
fact that the Duke-Carolina backs were able to
gain only 30 yards from scrimmage while los-
ing 27 yards, or a net gain of only three yards
from scrimmage.

On the other hand, the Wake-Davidson-State
backs gained 125 yards while losing 26 from
scrimmage. The losers also made more first
downs than the winners by gathering 12 to 4
by the Duke-Carolina combination.

Duke-Carolina got the better of the aerial
attacks presented by the two teams. The win-
ners completed four passes of 12 tried for 94
yards, while the losers completed six out of
20 for 66 yards. Each team intercepted two
passes. ;

ot
Duke-Carolina also had an advantage in punt-
ing and punt returns, collecting 40 yards to the

; Fi ;
losers’ 12. Penalties against each team were
few. :

Charlie Pearce, Davidson halfback who start-
ed in the Wake-Davidson-State line-up, re-
ceived a shoulder injury on the second play of
the game, after he had gained 15 yards around
end. This was the only casualty of the contest.

Eight Davidson men donated their services
for the contest and each saw some action dur-
ing the game. Doc Mathis, Steve Brown, and
Charlie Pearce were in the starting line-up,
while Bud Raker, Jack Wagner, Buddy Gard-
ner, Pi Conway, and Don King performed a
great part of the game.

Religion without the supernatural ceases to
be religion.—Bishop Manning.

My life is like a stroll upon the beach,
As near the water’s edge as I can“go.

!

33 in First Trials for
Fresh Wrestling Squad

Thirty-three men constitute the large-sized
squad from which the Freshman wrestling team
will be taken. These men are Anderson, Adams,
Batte, Douglas, Donigian, Eaton, Ferguson,
Griffith, Gregory, Hanrahan, Jones, Kimbrell,
Lee, Maynard, McCall, Neill, Owen; Ogburn,
Paine, Quarterman, Rozelle, Sprunt, Smoll-
ridge, Shumate, Smith, Taylor, Vass, Voegtlin,
Withers, White, Garrett, Lucas, and Northern.
There are several other men out also whose
names have not as yet been listed. -

On last Thursday night the squad had five-
minute bouts. At this time there was much
interést shown, and considerable improvement
on the part of some men. However, so few
practices had been held that it was impossible
to form any definite conclusions from these
matches as to the relative ability of the con-
testants.

Up to the present time Coach Unger has let
any man so wishing to come out for the squad.
He will work with the entire number until
Christmas. Then at that time he will cut down
the squad to about two teams, in order that
the men might get more personal attention and
thereby learn the sport more quickly.

At present only one match has been arranged
for the Freshmen. In this match they will meet
the Duke Freshmen when the two varsities
meet in Durham:

However, negotiations are being made with
Greensboro High, Salisbury High, and Oak
Ridge for additional matches.

|

Volley Ball Tourney
Won by Sophomores

|

|

|

|

Tuesday afternoon, December 8, ‘the cae
mores won the inter-class volley ball tourna-
ment by playing the deciding game with the |
Juniors. This was a very exciting game |
throughout, and there was very good |
playitig shown on both sides. |

some

During the tournament the Seniors and the
Sophomores played five games each, and the
Freshmen and Juniors played six games each.
Out of this number, the team which won the
greatest number of games was to be given the
championship.

In the tournament last year, the Seniors won
first place by winning four out of six games |
and losing two. The Juniors came in second |
with three wins and as many losses. The Soph-
omores and the Freshmen tied for fast place,
each winning one game and losing five. This
tournament also was very well played and fur-
nished many thrills.

In the teams this year, Bennet Mosely is
captain of the Seniors, John Boyd heads the
Juniors, T. Hook McCallie the Sophomores,
and “Duke” Glasgow is the captain of the
Freshmen. There have been no regular teams.

There was a,great deal of interest taken in
the tournament, both by the players and the
rest of the student body. The tournament lasted
about three weeks as it was necessary to told
the games over on many occasions: due to the
heavy rains. Much rivalry was shown in all the
games, but in all cases it was of the most
friendly nature. This rivlary made the games
very much more interesting, even though there |
was no bitter feelings between the teams.

|
|
Most people try everything when they are |
young except moderation—B. D. Montague. |

|

Gossip must often have been likened to. the
winged insects bearing pollen to the flowers;
it fertilizes many a vacuous reverie.—George
Meredith. |

Whatever the politics of a country may be, |

—Henry D. Thoreau.

“DRUGS”

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

Make Our Store Your Store
Students’ Supplies

WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.

!

|

Risa ; : |

the machine is a communist.—Louis ee
|

|

Q

“SODA”

“SUNDRIES”

Not having been able to witness the Duke-
Wolf-Heel-Cat-Deamon royal mixup, we
know nothing except, by hearsay, but what
we have heard and read was a plenty. It
seems that all the Davidson representatives
acquitted themselves nobly in the name of
charity, adopting the slogan, “All for char-
ity,” as their battle-cry, and, forgetting that
their compatriots were former enemies,
united themselves with the stars from State
and Wake Forest to form a cosmopolitan
but compact eleven. And there in the huge
Duke Stadium, fans were privileged to view
the churnings and boilings of the football
melting pot of North Carolina.

We read that Brown and Mathis were
outstanding for the college team, while King
much commendation. It has
been reported that King was throwing

passes like baseballs all over the stadium.

also received

And to have beaten the Carolina Tar
Babies 13-0, the Freshmen must also have
played a whale of a game. Those who wit-
nessesd the game up at Hickory say that
the Wildkittens outplayed the Caroline
Fresh in every department and should have
scored a dozen more touchdowns. It seems
that the boys were on a rampage, with Bum-
garner and Smathers in the backfield, and
Siewers and Morgan in the line, outstand-
ing.

The boys were plowing through the line
like nobody’s business and were all over the
governor's son, “The Guy,” as he was affec-
tionately nicknamed, like a wet blanket. Let
it be said, however, that the “Guv” played
a good game and took the razzing like a
good fellow.

And now one can't pick up a newspaper

prematurely
and

eyesight
streamers

without having his
dimmed by  two-by-four
headlines announcing somebody or other's
selections for All-State, All-Southern, All-
American, all-day, all-night—anything, just
so it’s an all-somethin’ team. The most re-
cent has been that of the Associated Press
which selected Pearce of Davidson for a
halfback position. Our suggestion for the
depression relief: Make every, man selected
on some all-sumthin’ team pay a dollar to
the Red Cross; or, better still, make the au-
thority who selects the team pay a dollar
for every man he selects.

We know a team composed of all Rhodes
Scholars. And what team is that, you ask?
Why, the Sing Sing eleven of course. There
you are. Hook, line and sinker. Now write
that down on a piece of paper and try to
figure it out. (And when you do figure it
out, wire us at our expense.)

We have a plan in which you might be
interested, said he, refusing to end a sen-
tence with a preposition (apologies to Mc-
Intyre). How about an all-time, all-Davidson
team? How far back can you remember?
Here are some suggestions: Tubby Laws,
Dick Grey, Thad Brock, Nappy Davis, Jake
Shepherd, Joe McConnell, Nick Sappenfield,
Tom Baker, Arrowood, McCoy, Bohannon,
and many others including those of the last
four years’ varsities. Send in your selections
now. Each selection will be given to a com-
mittee which will be appointed later, and this
committee will judge all selections. The win-
ner’s all-time all-Davidson pick will be pub-
lished in this paper.

Just as this issue went to press, we learned
of a very amusing incident which occurred
at the charity game at Duke which might
interest some of our readers. It seems that
Comisky, upon charging at the university

| team line, was taken back six yards by

Ersler and deposited none too gently upon

| the unyielding turf. Then, to make matters
worse, when Comisky got up again, Ersler
| immediately jumped on him again, causing

him to hit the turf a second time in almost
as many seconds. This unwarranted treat-
ment aroused the fighting ire of Comisky,
and, picking up the pigskin, he hurled it
swiftly at the offending Ersler about six
yards away and as the ball cracked Ersler's
dome, it bounced at least ten yards in the
air. Needless to say, the stands howled.

Kittens Down Tar Babies
in Post-Season Contest

Varsity Wrestling Team
Shows Good Prospects

Varsity wrestling prospects for this year look
very good with 14 men out, of which number
three are lettermen from last year’s squad, and
three others are numeral men from last year's
Freshman squad.

The men who have reported to date are
Whitfield, McElrath, Gorham, Taylor, Harrison,
Hodges, Ashcraft, Tyack, Graham, Beacham,
Currie, Wilson, Rice, Cofhin. In addition to
these, Conway, captain of last year's team, is
expected to report within. the next few days
along with several mien wlig ‘have. not reported
as yet on account of football.

Coach Doc Unger reported that the squad is
progressing very well in its practices, and that
he is well satisfied with the work that the var-
sity men did with the Freshmen while he was
coaching* the Freshman football team for its
last game.

At the present time four meets have been
arranged: V. P. I. at Blacksburg, V. M. I.
here, Washington and Lee here, and Duke at
Durham, In addition to these, there will ke two
or three more matches arranged for che var-
sity, to bring the entire number of matches up
to six or seven,

It is also hoped that a pre-season mateh ean
he arranged with some state Y. M. C. A. be-
tween the Christmas holidays and the examina-
tions.

Twenty-two Enter
Ping Pong Matches

The annual Davidson ping pong tournament
will begin this afternoon and will be continued
through Friday. There will be 22 participants
in the tourney and from the appearances of
some of the players there shonld he some snappy
ping pong matches.

In last year’s tournament L. N. Hand and
Sam Wiley met in the finals. They matched for
the championship, but Hand with fast,
driving shots won the honor of being ping pong
champion of Davdison College. In the tourna-
ment this year Hand has been ceded number
one and Wiley number two. A medal will be
given to the victorious ping pong player, and
it will be presented by P. I. Pritchett in chapel
This “gold” medal is now on display in the
showcase at the Students’ Store.

The matches this year will Dlaved in
accordance with the United Association — of
American Ping Pong Players and will be pest-
ed in the Y. M. C. A. Departing from the eas-
tom of most ping pong tournaments, the offi-
cials, which are Bob ‘Gorrell, coach: P. I.
Pritchett, referee, and Bennet Mosely, scorer,
have decided to let a limited number of zallery
witness the matches. If you expect to watch the
playing, be there early so as to get a seat.

his

he

At a revival meeting converts were coming
forward by the dozen, A Negro came striding
down the aisle and dropped to his knees. His
feet were bare and enormous as they stuck up
behind him,

In a moment the revivalist started up the aisle,
kneeling here and there beside converts. The
near-sighted old man peered earnstly at the
Negro, patted him on the shoulder and mur-
mured: “Bless you, brother.” Then kneeling

behind him and putting a hand on each heel, he |

said: “And bless these two dear little- boys.” —
The Gateway, University of Alberta.

Smathers on Offense and Morgan and
Caton on Defense Star for
Davidson

PROCEEDS FOR CHARITY

Contest Played on Lenoir-Rhyne Field
at Hickory

Davidson's Wildkittens took a 13-0 verdict
over the Tar Babies from the University of
North Carolina last Saturday. The contest, a
charity affair, was held on the athletic field of
Lenoir-Rhyne College in Hickory. June Smath-
ers, plunging Davidson halfback, was the big
gun in the day's proceedings.

The victory for the 'Kittens was a clean-
cut win, and showed in a decisive manner their
superiority over the boys from Chapel Hill, who
threatened to score but once, this threat com-
ing in the second canto, and being stopped on
the Davidson two-yard marker when the whistle
sounded for the half.

For the Tar Babies, Martin and Jackson
showed up well in the backfield, and Ralph
Gardner was a bulwark of strength in the for-
ward wall. Martin’s punts were particularly out-
standing. The red-jerseyed boys were somewhat
handicapped by the loss of three regular backs,
Mackorell, Hutchins, and Winfield, who were
not able to be in uniform due to injuries. How-
ever, the entire Davidson aggregation played
inspired football, and in spite of a fortnight’s
layoff, put up an offense that Carolina found
impossible to stop. Neither were they vulner-
able on the defense, due especially to Morgan's
work on the flank, and Caton’s line backing
extraordinary. Smathers proved the most adept
at running the ball, scoring hoth touchdowns.
Caton made the lone extra point on a line buck.

Davidson made eleven first downs to three
for North Carolina. Carolina’s passing attack
failed to function, and many good passes from
the hand of Jackson were grounded which, if
completed, would have been good for first downs
on numerous occasions. Nevertheless the Da-
vidson Freshmen had the superior ball club by
far, and the two-touchdown, margin does not
fully indicate the decisive manner in which the

Tar Babies were defeated.

Davidson Position N. Carolina

Morgan [b19; Manley
Sievers Ite Blount
Potter L.G. Lozowick
Lee Center Gardner
B. Forte RG. Laxton
Hand R.T. George
Morris RE. Farrell
Hufford QB. Jackson
Bumgarner IL Jal, Martin
Smathers ” RB. _Ogburn
} Caton F.B. Hinckle
| Davidson pM saa J cere) 7 6 0—13
| North Carolina ---------- 0 0 0 0— 0
Scoring summary: Davidson touchdowns,
Smathers, 2. Point after touchdown, Chiton

(line buck).

Officials: Referee, Shores (Maryville) ; um-
| pire, Hatcher (Duke); headlinesman, Gurley
| (N. C. State); field judge, Setzler (New-
berry).

|
|

It is entirely possible a “racketeer king’? may
arise in a few years and control the business of

‘the country.—Rosalie Loew Whitney.

Fa

Davidson Theatre

JOHN

THURSDAY

MONDAY

“FALSE MADONNA”
KAY FRANCIS—WILLIAM BOYD

TUESDAY
“GOOD SPORT”

WEDNESDAY

“PRIVATE LIVES”
NORMA SHEARER—ROBERT MONTGOMERY

“TOUCHDOWN”
RICHARD ARLEN—PEGGY SHANNON

SATURDAY
“GUILTY HANDS”

BOLES

AND FRIDAY

