STUDENT DIRECTORY

(Continued from page 4)
Tomlinson, S. H., 26 Ga.
Tong, A. E., 14 Rumple.
Torrence, R. L., 8 Rumple.
Tucker, F. A., 314 East.
Turrentine, H. W., 208 West.
Tyack, J. L., C West.
Vanstory, Lee, 11 Rumple.
Vass, J. S., 8 North.
Vickory, L. M., 29 Rumple.
Voegtlen, J. M., 410 Watts.
Wadsworth, J. A. C., 114 West.
Wagner, J. M., 2 Ga.
Walker, J. D., 411 East.
Wallace, M. B., Kimbrell’s.
Wallace, N. W., 409 Watts.
Walser, W. T., 210 Watts.
Ward, W. B., 205 East.
Washam, J. N., Home.
Watson, A., 2 Watts.
Watson, F. A., 27 Rumple.
Watkins, W. H., 406 East.
Weeks, K. D., 312 Watts.
Welch, J. T., 105 West.
West, C. D., 406 East.

West, F. H., 211 Watts.
West, J. W., 4 South.
West. Lee, 16 South,
West, P. E., Home.

White, C. P., Home.
White, H. E., 18 Rumple.
White, J. C., Home.
White, J. W., 309 Watts.
White, J. W., Home.
Whitehead, A. H., 209 West.
Whitener, O. M., Home.
Whitfield, R., 28 Rumple.
Whitney, F. A., 212 Watts.
Whitted, J. W., E. East.
Wildman, C. M., 108 East.
Wiley, S. S., 414 East.
Wilkes, M. B., 16 Rumple.
Williams, D. R., 26 Ga.
Williams, E. G., 30 Rumple.
Williams, Jack, 211 West.
Williford, J. 1., 9 North,
Wilson, F. C., 203 West.
Wilson, H. A., 311 East.
Wilson, H. M., 114 East.
Wilson, J. S., 8 South.
Wilson, T. J., 312 East.
Wingfield, G. W., Gym.
Withers, J. R., Home.
Womble, J. G., Home.
Wood, G. R., 107 Watts.
Wood, T. F., 305 Watts.
Woods, J. P., 412 Watts.
Woodside, H. R., 412 Watts.
Woodside, R. E., 6 North.
Wootten, L. B., 22 Ga.
Wright, C. R., 23 Ga.
Wyche, B, W., 2 East.
Yancey, W. T., A West.
Yelverton, H., 202 West.
Young, F. C,, 410 East.

oe a Se
GRIDIRON CANDIDATES
REPORT FOR OPENING
OF FOOTBALL SEASON

him in action last year will testify as to his
ability to tackle hard and cleanly, Julian West
one of the few of last year’s Freshmen to
show up well this year, should make a depend-
able back. Fleagle, Bradshaw, Clark, Peabody
and Norfleet round out the list of backs who
are showing up best so far.

Center seems to be cinched by John D, Mc-
Connell. Wooten and Baggett, who played Fresh
football last year, will Probably be the next
in line.
Doc Mathis will fill one guard position, but
there is still an open race for the other guard
left vacant by Thad Brock. The absence
Charlie Parker will also have to be filled, At
Present Barrier seems to be the selection, but
Pi Conway, Fred Ogden, Jake Mackorell, Jim

Pratt, and Hal Wilson ar i
; e also in there fighti
for the position, ue

Jack Wagner and Cal Kuykendall seem to
be ‘first choice for tackles. Whitfield and Ber-
nard are showing up well, and also two of
last year’s Freshman team, McElrath and Wee
Thompson. Raker, one of last year’s star tackles
has been shifted to end, and Covington Wi
lost by graduation. The above, however should
develop to take’ their place.

Steye Brown, one of last year’s stars,
Bud Raker, who Played end his Fresh y
should hold down that Position very ca .
Bob Johnson appears to be firs
tute, while Rule,
also out.

of

and
ear,
pably,
t string substi-
Cannon, and MacConnell are

Due to lack of mitch good material coming
up from last year’s Freshman team, the team
this year will very Probably be weak on re-
serves, The first string, however, should develop
into a scrapping team capable of giving any-
body a tough run for first place. While we do
not predict a brilliant team by any means, the
first string should carry the colors well up in
the race for state honors,

Hap: “Did you ever. see a roomful of women
Perfectly silent?”

Sap: “Yes, once; someone had asked which

Of those present was the eldest.” sc,

THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 16, 1931

Prof. Archibald Currie, head of the political
science department at Davidson College, has
just returned from Providence, R. I., where he
attended the nation-wide assembly of Phi Beta
Kappa. Prof. Currie represented the Gamma
chapter at Davidson, and remained for the
three-day session. The delegates were guests
of Brown University and many important mat-
ters were discussed at this year’s conclave. The
Phi Beta Kappa fraternity is an order that
recognizes scholarship, and ten per cent of
the Senior Class is bid each year.

Dr. P. H. Gwynn, Jr., after teaching for six
weeks in the Davidson College Summer School,
went to Montreat where he taught for two
weeks in the Leadership Training School of
the Southern Presbyterian Church. He and his
family spent most of the month of August in
Connecticut. While there, Dr. Gwynn served
as a member of the faculty of the Connecticut
State Summer School of Religious Education,
which held its sessions in the Connecticut Agri-
cultural College at Storrs. Dr. Gwynn was also
scheduled to appear on the program of the
Hazen Conference on Student Counseling at
Lisle, N. Y., but the spread of infantile paralysis
in the eastern section of the United States
made it seem wise to cancel that engagement.

Since his return to Davidson last week, Dr.
Gwynn has addressed the Synod of North Car-
olina on the subject of Religious Education.

Dr. Lyon spent the major part of the summer
doing research work with the Federal Bureau
of Entomology at a field station in Clarksville,
Tenn. He was studying the methods of con-
trolling insects affecting tobacco. The latter
part of August Was spent camping and fishing
in northern Michigan,

Professor Blythe attended the Middlebury
Spanish School in’ Middlebury, Vermont.

Dr. Lilly was in London most of the summer
doing some rsearch reading,

Dr. Richards taught the first semester of
summer school here at Davidson. He spent the
month of August at Montreat.

Dr. Porter taught summer school here at
Davidson.

Professor Fulcher taught summer school at
the. State Teachers’ College in East Radford,
Va. The college had the second largest sum-
mer enrollment in the state, being second only
to University of Virginia. While teaching there
Professor Fulcher supervised the construction
of an eighteen-hole golf course on the campus.

Faculty Activities During
the Summer Months

’ Heath Whittle spent most of his summer at
Camp Carolina at Brevard, N. C.

Dr. Walter Lingle was a speaker at the
Young People’s Conference at Davidson on
June 14th. He then spoke at a Young People’s
Conference at ‘Camp Ovoca in Tennessee. On
July 25th, he spoke at the Young People’s Con-
ference of Kings Mountain, in Charlotte. He
made two addresses at the University of Vir-
ginia, before the Institute of Public Affairs and
the summer school. From July 25-29, he was
speaker at a Young People’s Conference at
Camp Smyrna, Ga. On Sunday, August 2, he
preached at the First Presbyterian Church of
Houston, Texas. From August 3-10 he was
a speaker at West Presbyterian encampment
in Kerrville, Texas. On August 23 he preached
in Spartanburg, S. C., and on August 30 he
preached in Charlotte.

Dr. Currie taught at Davidson the last half
of the summer session. He spent ‘most of his

time at Davidson, but did make three short |

trips into the mountains, and made one trip to
the seashore.

Dr. Shewmake spent the entire summer at
Davidson doing quite a lot of reading.

Dr. Sentelle was at work in his office during
the most of the summer. He did spend one
month in Knoxville, Tenn.

Professor Erwin taught the first session of
summer school. He then spent some time at
the seashore on Pawley’s Island.

Prof. J. T. Kimbrough spent the month of
June playing baseball. During the latter part
of July he journeyed up to Atlantic City. from
there he went to New York City, where he
spent a week, then returning home.

Capt. N. Pritchett spent his entire stmmer
at Camp Carolina.

Carl Pritchett stayed at Montreat during the
months of July and August.

Dr. J. M: Douglas taught at both summer
sessions of summer school{ijhere at Davidson.
He also made several trips into the mountains
of North Carolina.

FR. Brown spent ten days at Lake Cana-
daigua in New York collecting fossil, From
there he went oyer to Ithaca and studied botany
and geology for six weeks.

Prof. Lewis Schenck spent the summer in
Richmond, Va., doing research reading at the
Union Seminary Library.

DR. FRAZER HOOD
SPENDS VACATION IN
EUROPEAN COUNTRIES

velvets, and always have at least one dress cos-
tume of either material. Even their aprons are
gorgeously embroidered in many designs.

The most beautiful women among the peas-
ants were at Pont l’Abbey. These women are
different in appearance and are supposed to be
descendants from different racial stock, They
have beautiful skin, blue eyes and chestnut
hair.

They then visited the Chateau country, and
saw the sights that most tourists see. From
there they went into Germany, confining their
visit principally to Bavaria. As they toured the
country in their own car striking unrest was
noted on the part of the younger people by
the number of them on the roads trying to get
rides from place to place.

They then crossed over to England, landing
at Dover. They spent the first night in Canter-
bury. From there they journeyed to York. They
took their time, and stopped ‘at many interesting
villages and small cities. From York they went
to the Lake Country, making their headquar-
ters at Grasmere. Dr. Hood had been invited
to stay with a friend of his while staying there.
His friend was called away to his country home
just a few days before their arrival, so they
stayed at a delightful old hotel situated in the
midst of a typical English flower garden. Dr.

Hood later: visited his friend at his country
estate.

Grasmere, Keswich and Windimere are asso-
ciated with names of Wordsworth, Colridge and
DeQuincy. It was quite a thrill to sit in the
room where once these great writers had
worked,

They then went to the lovely county of De-
von, Exeter, the county seat, is a beautiful
town. There Dr. Hood saw the tavern at which
Drake lived when he received the orders that
later terminated in the destruction of the Span-
ish Armada. The most interesting feature of
Devonshire is the Moor. Dagt Moor is famed
in story, especially from the~pen of Eden Phil-
potts.

Dr. Hood was not accompanied home by his
wife, since she spent the remainder of the sum-
mer in Wales.

Mose: “Don’t you know? Well, I'll tell you
what an orator is. If you was to walk up to
an ordinary man and ask him how much was
two and two, he’d say, ‘four’; but if he was
one of us orators, he’d say, ‘When in de course
of human events it becomes necessary to take
de numeral of de second denomination and add
it to de figger two, I says unto you, dat de
result will invariably be four.’ Dat’s a orator.”

Nurse: “Have you ever run a temperature?”
Patient: “No, but’ I’ve driven almost every
other kind of car.”

Headquarters,

ote <

~ $25.00 Tailored Suits $29.50
Stetson “D” Store

OPPOSITE CAMPUS
| PHONE 206 |

WELCOME TO DAVIDSON

Our Store is your Store, so make it your Down Town
We carry everything from head to foot
that a College Man will need.

COME IN TO SEE US

INTRODUCTORY EXERCISES
FOR THE FRESHMEN

concerning the college church, and its place on
the campus. Dr. J. M. McConnell talked about
student scholarship, telling the men that they
were at Davidson primarily to study. Prof. F.
K. Fleagle talked upon the use of time in col-
lege, emphasizing the fact that it is very valu-
able and should be budgeted as much as money.
Don King, president of the student body, con-
cluded the Wednesday morning exercises by a
talk upon the honor system at Davidson.

Wednesday afternoon Dr. M. E. Sentelle,
dean of students, gave one of the most neces-
sary and instructive talks of the series when he
talked upon College Regulations. C. R. Pritchett,
secretary of the Y. M. C. A,, talked upon
Campus Organizations, explaining the large
part which they played in student life. Cal Kuy-
kendall, judge of the Court of Control, gave a
talk in which he explained what was expected
of the Freshmen, and the regulations set for
them by the Court of Control. Mrs. Smith gave
a short talk on the care of the dormitories.

The program was concluded Wednesday eve-
ning. Mr. F. L. Jackson gave one of the most
necessary talks of all upon the handling of
money and care of property while at college.
He emphasized the fact that money is to be
spent after consideration of values. Dr. Walter
L. Lingle, president of the college, closed the
series of lectures by a most enlightening talk
upon what Davidson can mean to a student. He
outlined the great possibilities which confronted
every Freshman, and the way in which they
could make their college years count for the
most.

In a country newspaper appeared the follow-
ing advertisement:

“The man who picked up my wallet in Fore
Street was recognized. :

He is requested to return it.”

The next day this reply was published:

“The recognized man* who picked up your
wallet requests the loser to call at any time
and collect it.”

First Executive: “Did you enjoy your vaca-
tion?”

Second: “Yeh, but. there’s nothing” like the
feel of a’ good desk under your feet again,”

Bob: “What is the difference between an
auction sale and seasickness ?”

Rob: “One is the sale of effects and the other
is the effects of a sail.”

First Mother (reading letter from collegiate
son); “Dick's letters always send me to the
dictionary,”

Second Mother: “My Tom’s letters always
send me to the bank.”

Sam: “What’s an orator 2?”

Mother: “You, never come into the house
without making an attack on that dish of
doughnuts.”

Tommy : ‘That's all right, mom; y’see a home
run doesn’t count unless a feller hits the plate.”

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
APPOINTS ASSISTANTS

Applied Mathematics—E. L. Gorham, Ipe,,
Lake Charles, La.

Recorders of Absences—D. M. McQueen,
Little Rock, S. C., and W. B. Ward, Timmons-
ville, S.C.

Library Assistants—D. R. Mower, Staunton,
Va.; J. O. Mann, Jr., Chester, S. C.; G. C.
Neal, Ruffin; R. L. Torrence,’ Gastonia, and
S. L. Hoffman, Korea. ~

Monitors—B. E. Allen, Wilmington; A. M.
Manson, Jacksonville, Fla.; J. R. Howard, At-
lanta, Ga.; E. D, Kuykendall, Jr., Greensboro;
D. H. Leeper, Jr., Hiddenite; John D. McCon-
nell, Davidson, and H. W. Ryburn, Erwin,
Tenn.

________

COLLEGE GIRLS VS.
CHORUS GIRLS

It was declared that chorus girls are mental
equals of college undergraduates. Six Hunter
College Seniors disagreed with this statement
and arranged a meeting with a team of six
chorus girls. The contest was held in the
lounge of the Hotel Lexington in New York
with Horace Liveright, publisher and producer,
acting as judge, Bellamy Partridge of Bretano’s
editorial department compiled the examination.
When the two teams met it was found that
the chorus girls were all college graduates and
that it really was a battle between undergrads
and alumnae. At the end of the contest the
averages were 84 to 54 in favor of the under-
graduates.

There was much debate and scratching of
heads over the following questions :

Q.—What composer wrote a series_of operas
based on famous legends? A. Wagn

Q.—Who was the first Chief Justice 0
United States? A. John Jay.

Q.—What monarch was responsible for the
Protestants’ reformation in Great Britain? A.
Henry VIII.. :

Q.—Who is now Prime Minister of France?
A. Andre Tardieu.

Q.—Who was thé first President
Soviet Republic? A. Sverdlov.

Q.—Who was Plato’s most famous pupil?
A. Andrea del Sarto.

Q.—Who wrote the poem “To a Skylark”
which begins “Hail to thee, blithe spirit’? A.
Shelley.

of the

WHY TEACHERS TURN GRAY

Answers to exams on medieval history when
asked to identify the following: Philip the fair
—The first user of Palmolive soap as he kept
that ‘school girl complexion.

City of God—Garden of Eden.

Charles the Bold—The first man to eat an
oyster,

Romance Language—Pet words used
Mark Antony and Cleopatra.

Dante—Famous writing on “The entrance to
the Hellespont.”

Charles the
Washington.

Joan of Are—Daughter of Noah.

Marco Polo—A famous game of the Prince
of Wales.

Moscow—Furnished the well known food for
colleges.

Richard the Lign-Hearted—A member of
Barnum and Bailey Circus.

Alaric—A form of blank poetry.

Theodosian Code—A code used by the famous
lovers, Pyramus and Thisbe.

Harold, the Fair-Headed of Norway—Virst
user of Golden Glint shampoo.—Selected.

SCARLET
TANAGER

TOBACCOS - - SODAS
SUNDRIES

and

MAGAZINES

by

Hammer—Rival of . George

We Cater to Davidson
Men

NORTON’S
BARBER SHOP

Davidson Theatre

LOWEL SHERMAN

it

Monday and Tuesday

“CAUGHT PLASTERED”
BERT WHEELER AND ROBERT WOOLSEY

Wednesday
“HIGH STAKES”

Thursday and Friday

“SMILING LIEUTENANT”
MAURICE CHEVALIER

Saturday

“THE SPIDER”
EDMUND LOWE AND LOIS MORAN

g

AND MAE MURRAY

|

