ERSKINE HERE
SATURDAY

The Davidsomian

‘sALENDA LUX’UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

MASQUERS
PRESENT TWO
PLAYS

————————==

Vol. XIX

e "Y

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 21, 1931

No. 6

DAVIDSON HELD TO 0-0 SCORE BY DUKE

HOMECOMING ADDRESS TO
RETURNING ALUMMI MADE
BY PROFESSOR FOREMAN

Town, Campus, Students, Faculty, and
Alumni Have Notably Improved,
States Speaker

GROUP PICTURES TAKEN ~

Alumni Cordially Welcomed and En-
tertained at Banquet

Davidson alumni, returning to the scene of
their undergraduate days, were formally wel-
comed to their’Alma Mater by Professor Ken-
neth J. Foreman, professor of Bible and Phil-
osophy at Davidson. Professor Foreman’s ad-
dress was the feature of the morning meeting
of the alumni in Chambers , Auditorium, last
Saturday, October 17th.

After Rev. A. W. Shaw, of the class of
1905, delivered the invocation, Dr. Walter L.
Lingle, president of Davidson, introduced the
speaker, Professor Foreman proceeded with his
characteristic, dry-humored style to welcome
the returning graduates back to Davidson, and
to point out to them the many improvements
in the place since their departure.

“Although Davidson has many needs, such as
a new infirmary, church, and a swimming pool,”
commented Professor Foreman, “there have
been many wonderful changes made on the
campus and in the town.

“All aspects of the local situation have shown
a marked improvement since you departed. The
town, the campus, the students, the faculty, and
even the altimni have notably improved. Take
the town, for instance. It is easier to reach, and
easier to leave. The highways leading to David-
son have been ‘improved, and the streets of the
town have been payed. The social life of the
village has grown so complex that few towns
of the same size can boast of a larger number
of club and committee meetings,”

The speaker was especially optimistic about
the improvement in the student body. In his
opinion, “They are more cosmopolitan than
they were twenty years ago. Then it was rare

that entering freshmen had ever been beyond aN

the bounds of their native state before, while
nowadays most of them have hitch-hiked over
a good part of North America, and probably
Europe, before their senior year in high school.”

Professor Foreman said that he asked his
aesthetics class, “What improvement from the
aesthetic point of view could you offer to bet-
ter the Davidson campus?” He said that all
answers advocated the rebuilding of all the
buildings on the campus With the exception of
one. The campus, in itself, has improved; it
has become greener, due to the increasing Bene
ber of freshmen entering each year.

The speaker said ‘that at first Chambers
Building was an old building—then ashes. Then
new Chambers was a dream, and now it is a

(Continued on page 5)

Three Deputations
Active Last Sunday

Last Sunday, October 18, the Davidson Col-
lege Y. M. C. A. sent out deputations to three
different churches for services of various kinds.
The Y is doing a great deal of work along this
line this year, this phase of activity being in
the hands of John Howard of the Junior class.
All four of the classes were represented among
the thirteen men on the deputations.

One group visited the Statesville Presbyterian
Church to hold a vesper service there on Sunday
evening. Grier Martin was the leader of this
group, and Sam Wiley was the principal speak-
er. Music was furnished by Grainger Williams,
who sang a solo, Byron Schriver, violinist, and
W. L. McIlwaine, pianist. This service was at-
tended by the students of Mitchell College; -lo-
cated at Statesville, and was of particular im-
portance because of this fact.

A second deputation was sent to the Bethel-
page Presbyterian Church, located about ten
miles from Davidson, to hold a young people’s
vesper service. Billy Flinn was the leader of
this group, and talks were made by Charles
Moore, Tee Thompson, and Jake Mackorell.
Flinn and R. M. Gladstone sang a duet at this

t

(Continued on page 5)

TWO PLAYS WILL BE
GIVEN BY MASQUERS

On Friday night at 7:15 the Red and Black
Masquers will open their season with two one-
act plays, a program which is calculated to last
slightly over an hour. The first play, “The
Mayor and the Manicure,” by George Ade, has
a cast of four, all Freshmen. The leading part,
that of Mayor Milford, who turns the trick on
the blackmailer, alias Genevieve the Manicure,
is taken by Robert Lessem of Fayetteville.
Lessem has had experience in “The Prince
Chap” and “For All Times.”

Opposite him is Genevieve, Manicure in
Wallie’s. college town, who has gotten wind of
old man Milford’s fortune, a part of which she
hopes to realize in the form of hush money,
otherwise she will let. out before Wallie’s bride-
to-be the affair between them at college. The
part is taken by William McIwinen, whose pre-
vious experience has been in “The Way of a

Maid,” “Negro Minstrels,” and “The Clay’s the |

”

Thing,” in which he had the role of a young
musician and female characters.

The dashing young hero who returns home
to find Genevieve is assumed by Jimmy Simp-
while Ruth, Mattie Mc-

(Continued on page 5)

INSPIRING TALKS ARE

son, his ‘is

fiancee,

GIVEN IN DUKE RALLY

Captain Pritchett and “Spike” McGee |

Are Speakers—Band Turns Out
in Uniform

Last Friday night the student body of Da-
vidson staged one of the best pep meetings in
the history of the college. Featured by a full-

uniformed band and inspiring pep talks from!
Captain Pritchett and “Spike” McGee, the Duke |
pep meeting inspired in both team and student |
body an enthusiastic spirit and a strong deter- |

mination to win. The meeting started in Shearer
Hall and ended at Chambers Building.

The band was one of the outstanding features
of the meeting, turning out in full uniform, and
rendering several numbers during the evening,
concluding the program with “O Davidson.”

After afew lusty cheers at the beginning of
the meeting, Captain Pritchett made an inspir-
ing talk, urging the student body to believe in
the team and to support them in the game. He
brought out the fact that the one thing to be
desired above all others was not confidence, but
morale, impressing upon his eager audience the
necessity of keeping up the morale of the stu-
dent body and the team for the Duke game.
He then told how and why the Wildcat was
symbolic of Davidson and its fighting spirit.
He received a huge ovation as he concluded his
talk.

A few more cheers were given, and Cheer-
leader Ed Kuykendall called on “Spike” Mc-
Gee, who was cheerleader in 1926. McGee had
come from Pittsburgh to witness the game and
he made a fine and inspiring talk. He cited
several instances when Davidson had been ex-
pected to lose, and had come through with a
victory. His main point was that Davidson had
beaten Duke before, and could do -it again.

Amid thunderous applause, the cheerleader
adjourned the meeting to the drive between
Shearer and the Library, where the Freshmen
marched behind the band in a shirt-tail parade
to Chambers, where they formed in a mass on
the gravel walk. From the front steps of Cham-
bers, the cheerleaders led some exultant cheers
and concluded the meeting with the singing of
“O Davidson.”

Cheerleader Ed Kuykendall worked very hard
to make the meeting a success, and to him is
due the credit for a very successful and inspir-
ing pep meeting.

PHI BETA KAPPA BIDS
NINE NEW SENIORS TO
N.C. GAMMA CHAPTER

Dwelle, Enloe, McLean, Wiley, Mc-
Connell, Welch, Hand, Bettis, and
Harrison Are Invited

ESTABLISHED HERE IN 1922

Professor Foreman Announces Annual
Fall Bids in Chapel Exercises

Nine men received bids this fall to join the
Gamma chapter of Phi Beta Kappa. Phi Beta
Kappa is a national scholarship society that
ranks above any other fraternity of its kind in
the United States. It was founded at William
and Mary College before the Revolutionary
| War and has now spread until it has one hun-
| dred and eleven chapters in outstanding colleges
and universities. '

| The aim of the society is to promote scholar-
|ship and character. Gamma chapter was in-
stalled at Davidson in 1922 and since that time
‘about 140 men have been taken in. This year
| id, whose names are as follows: E.-C. Dwelle,
Jr., Charlotte, N. C.; Roger P. Enloe, Buch-
anan, Gay; T. We McLean, Charlotte, N. C.;
Samuel S. Wiley, Salisbury, N. C.; J. D. Me-
' Connell, Davidson, N. C.; J. T. Welch, Mt.
Holly, N. C.; Louis N. Hand, East Spencer,
N. C.; FE. S. Bettis, Morristown, Tenn., and
C. 'W. Harrison, Davidson, N. C.

social fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Sigma
Upsilon, Delta Pi Kappa, Beaver Club, Interna-
tional Relations Clu, Le Cercle Francais, Re-
porters’ Club, Golden Quill, assistant in Eng-
ish, managing editor of Davidsonion and, editor
of Quips and Cranks and on Honor Roll.

Enloe is president of the Y. M. C, iNe a|

member of Omicron Delta Kappa, Eta Sigma
Phi, Alpha Phi Epsilon, Omega Phi Alpha, In-
ternational Relations Club, and the Ministerial
Zand. He was also an alternate on the varsity
debating team, secretary and vice-president of

(Continued on page 6)

Homecoming Stunt Night °
Presented by Glee Club

Prize for Best Stunt Was Won by
Freshman Class

As part of the annual Home-Coming pro-
‘gram the Davidson College Glee Club spon-
lsored a “Stunt Night.” The affair was held in
the Maxwell-Chambers Auditorium at 7:15 last
Saturday evening, and a good crowd was on
hand for the performance.

The program opened with the Glee Club ren-
dering “College Ties,” and this was followed
by several other selections. After this feature
the varsity quartet sang several selections,
which appeared to be greatly enjoyed by those
present. Following this, the Sunnyland Sere-
naders, college jazz orchestra, rendered some
splendid numbers.

Possibly the most enjoyable feature of. the
evening was the stunts presented by the indi-
vidual classes. The Senior stunt came first, and
consisted of a hilarious series of jokes. This
stunt was followed by the presentation of a
meeting of the “I Rolla Bone” fraternial organ-
ization for gentlemen of the darker hue, bye the
Sophomores. After this stunt the audience was
thrilled by a scene of desperadoes and gangsters
as exemplified by the Junior class. Then the
Freshmen produced the following stunt that
| won the prize of the evening.

This was a drama of deep tragedy, as the
name implies. The title was “Three-Cornered
Tragedy.” David McLain, Gordon Wood, and
Sam Eaton formed the cast that portrayed, with
superb acting, the death of three people. In
brief, the lover protected his loved one from
her father, and in this protection killed that
worthy gentleman. At this the fair lady suc-
cumbed, and finally the lover killed himself in
his grief.

The Glee Club closed the evening’s entertain-
ment by singing “O Davidson.” It is generally
believed that this was the best stunt night held
at Davidson for a number of years.

there was an unusually large number of men |

Dwelle is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon

Eumenean Literary Society, a member of the)

Y VESPERS ADDRESS -
GIVEN BY DR. MOORE

“And whosoever will be chief among you, let
him be your servant,” was the main idea in
Dr. Oren Moore’s Y vesper address here last
Sunday evening, October 18th. He began his
talk by saying that he had spoken to a David-
son audience so oftensthat he suspected that
some of those men present were tired of hear-
ing him; and he asked his hearers to please
wink at him if he started repeating something
that he had said on a previous occasion.

Dr. Moore then gave a definition of the true
service man as he saw him. He said that the
service man was a person always on tab to
repair our automobiles, our radios, or our elec-
tric refrigerators, in fact, a person who had
specialized in one particular thing and devoted
| his whole time and energy towards the execu-
‘tion of that one duty for the benefit of his na-
‘tion, his state or his community at large, with-
‘out regard for personal gain. As examples of
this type of man, Gandhi, Mussolini and cer-
tain Americans were mentioned,

The speaker continued by saying that unless
the world began to realize the dire need of more
service men and that unless we began to prac-
tice the theory that the greatest among us must

/be servants—unless we believed this, the old
regime of the “survival of the fittest and might

makes right” will surely be replaced by an

inevitable chaos.

As to. the to the
men,” it was pointed out that they are many
and varied. By no means should a man refuse
advancement of any nature if it moves him to

rewards offered “service

his higher objective in life, because the higher
we the powerlul
which should be exercised in the right direc-

LO, nore is our
‘tion. However, Dr. Moore warned his hearers
strongly against receiving rewards of any tind
if they had strings attached to them. In other
words, “Live nobly and humbly and accept the
glory~that-you feel you have carned, neither
living nor receiving with an ulterior motive.”

As to the attitudes that we may assume in
training for service, they may be classified im-
der three heads: Ignoring the opportunity; in-
difference towards it; or embracing it. Each of
these ideas is amply portrayed in the parable
of the Good Samaritan. First, the robbers not
only ignored the chance to be of service, but
*yuined it in robbing and wounding the traveler.
Second, the priests passed by and refused to
stop at all, exhibiting an air of utter indiffer-
ence. And finally, the Good Samaritan bound
the robbed manis wounds, took him to the inn
| (Continued on page 6)

I.R.C. WILL BE HOST
TO LONDON SPEAKER

Dr. T. W. Lingle Tells of Visit to
Institute of Politics

The International Relations Club held its
weekly meeting last Tuesday night and an ex-

cellent crowd attended.

The coming of Mr. C. Douglas Booth, well-
known’ London Iecturer, discussed. Mr.
Booth is to be brought here under the auspices
of the International Relations Club. The topic
of his talk will be “The British Foreign Pol-
icy,” about which Mr. Booth is well able to
inform us, being a member of the Royal In-
stitute of International Affairs. All of the mem-
bers were ufged to assist in making his visit
to Davidson a success.

was

An interesting talk by Dr. T. W. Lingle on
his attendance at the Institute of Politics at
Williamstown, Mass., featured the
program. The Institute is held every summer
at William's College, whose president, Dr. Gar-
field, acts as chairman. Dr. Garfield is a son of
the late James A. Garfield, a president of the
United States, and in his home at Williamstown,
according to Dr. Lingle, well maintains the pres-
idential traditions of hospitality. Dr. Lingle also
listed the speakers, who represented many lead-
ing nations, giving-an account of each, and con-
cluded by noting how closely related are the
purposes of the Institute of Politics and the
International Relations Club, both of which
are peace.

evening’s

influence

BRILLIANT ATTACK SHOWN
BY WILDCATS IN CONTEST
WITH OLD FOES SATURDAY

Both Teams Threaten But Are Not
Able to Push Over Goal Line

5,000 FANS WATCH GAME

and Breaks Make Outcome
of Game Uncertain

Fumbles

In a game filled with many thrills, many
breaks, and many bobbles, the Duke Blue Devils
and the Davidson Wildeats fought to a score-
less tie on Richardson Field last Saturday aft-
ernoon. It was a brilliant day. The sunshine
and the cool air made it a perfect day for foot-
ball, and the playing was not below this. From
the start of the game to the finish, it was a
great fight. There were no outstanding stars.
Each team put up a strong game as a whole,
and they fought, team against team, until the
final whistle.

The red and blue clashed before a rather dis-
appointing home-coming crowd of 5,000 yelling,
howling fans. At the start the game the
Widleats drove the ball to the Duke 16-yard
line, only to be stopped by the strong Duke

ot

defense. Mason punted out of danger, and after
Davidson had tried two plays through the line,
broke through and blocked  Pierce’s
The ball) rolled to the and Kid
srewer grabbed it and ran to the 27-yard line,
Duke then carried the ball to the 10-yard line,
only to be sent back to the 20-yard line by two

, ,
Rogers

kick. side

penalties. A pass fell over the goal line, and
this threat was at an end.

In the second quarter, Duke threatened again,
but the Wildeats again withstood the attack.
Duke could not gain through the line, so they
resorted to an aerial attack. This system worked
well until they got into scoring position. Then
the Wildeat defense tightened and their goal
line: seemed impenetrable.

In the third quarter Davidson had the Blue
Devils with their backs to the wall. Charging,
fighting, and playing with alertness, they drove
the ball deep into Duke territory, where it re-
mained for the whole period except when Mason
punted 70 yards to put the Wildcats for a while
in the shadow of their own goal. But after a
punt and a of a Duke fumble, they
had the ball .in | mid-field, it
for the rest of the«pefiod.

Duke opened the fourth period with a recoy-
ered fumble, and a drive to the 15-yard line.

recovery

where remained

King of Davidson then intercepted a pass and
made the most spectacular run,of the game.
He fought his way from the four-yard line to
the middle of the field. The Wildcats made
three first downs in succession and placed the
ball on the six-yard line. Realizing that the end
of the game was a matter of seconds, they tried
(Continued on page 5)

Orchestra Has Good |
Prospects This Fall

The Davidson nine-piece orchestra, centering

around four old members, is looking forward
to a most promising year. It has been rated as
of the best in the

South, and expects not only to keep up its old

one collegiate orchestras
record, but also to improve considerably.
They will be led by Brice Robinson, who
plays the drums, and is also director of the band.
Rives Pope, first saxo-
phone; S./M. Hines, third saxophone, and W.
W. Caligan, banjo and guitar. The new men
are: A. M. Cunningham, first trumpet; W. T.
(Soph), trumpet; Henry
Hodgin (Soph), piano; J. C. Robinson, second
saxophone, and Frank Tucker, sousaphone.
Director Robinson states that the orchestra
has progressed farther now than ever before.

The other veterans are:

Thompson second

All the mmebers are earnestly working together
to produce the most harmony that can come
from nine players. This year they are featuring
severalhenumbers written and composed by W.
W. Caligan.

The orchestra made its first appearance dur-
ing Stunt Night last Saturday, and met with
much success. They will continue to accompany
the Glee Club on its various trips. They will
also play for such socials and other entertain-
ments as are held in the immediate vicinity.
