N

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 4, 1931

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

my

GRIER -MARTIN.. .. 2202202225222 cc ccccnccnnss- Editor-in-Chief
MEA OCON WAY ocsics biscshe acai ce DUSIESs “Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF

is HO) GSU AINE Beebe ieee Lic U. woascasnbde’. Managing Editor
Dy7Di MCBRY Dielicid. siete cls souks Managing Editor
p Ye ae Oe Nee ee ae Managing Editor
C. F.' MYERS... Managing Editor
B. B. SUGG.... .-Athletic Editor
D. G. STEPHE --Feature Editor
W. W. FRANK Feature Editor
BAS Vs OER AN ook avis kus cccucswssciscccocnbeeccseus Review Editor
}; 1 LN 8 --Exchange Editor
. C. DWELLE, JR.. Associate Editor
Wi 8) Ae ee i odes sis cece ccc ase oe eas Associate Editor
Wi oh SMATIAE WSicstseiccsccens _..-Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

AG Ma MANSON wc. cases _.-Assistant Business Manager
A; i MEBANDPisccccccc.cs .--Assistant Business Manager
i, W. WHITTED_.. _-Assistant Business Manager
. R. MORROW...........--.---—-------Subscription Manager
Vs cht  JOPINDU Ni cssccnssoce soe ---Solicitor
F. NEAI Solicitor

esp

Solicitor

B. WOOTTON.
Solicitor

‘ASH;  MANSONicsocssese =

REPORTERS’ CLUB
H. WHITEHEAD.....—----------

|

A.

Ty Be LAR Bic cele cc iccccc cccccenesesenavacgatecs

We oP MU Ula Seisisccccscccscc; occcecanmsemecrerary ereneurer
R. H. ALDERMAN F, H. COVINGTON
B. B. TAYLOR L. S. GAMBLE
G. E. BAILEY k. E. LORRAINE
J. E. BOYD E. L. POWELL a
$. Pp. PRESTON R. PRATT-THOMAS
W. R. WARD A. F. SCHENCK _
O. CASALI W. M. THOMPSON
L. W. CLARDY W. T.. THOMPSON

JACK WILLIAMS

NOVEMBER 4, 1931

J. A. HUNTER

The humblest citizen of all the land, when clad in the
armor of a righteous cause, is stronger than all the hosts
of error.—William Jennings Bryan.

18) 7) (6, 1

The sympathy of the student body is ex-

tended to Allen Whitehead and Billy Watkins

in the loss of their fathers.

PARAGRAPHICS —-

Davidson defeated two Southern Conference teams
from Lexington, Va., both by the score of 7-0—Page
Ripley!

D

At the time of this writing it is not known whether
the faculty granted the request of the students in
regard to the holiday for the Carolina game. It is
known that the student body is going to be needed
at that game!

D

The talk by Mr. C. Douglas Booth should be par-
ticularly interesting to the student body on account
of the British situation at the present time.

D

Every student should make his plans so that he
will be able to hear Dr. McSween at Vespers next
Sunday. He is one of the finest talkers in the Pres-
byterian Church, and is an alumnus of Davidson Col-

lege.

——_D

While we do not wish to look too far ahead, we

would like to see one spirit developed on the campus.

That is, “WE ARE GOING TO BEAT WAKE
FOREST’

D
Of course before then we have Citadel and Caro-
lina to get by!

GREAT BRITAIN

With events of national importance occurring
in rapid sequence in Great Britain, the world at
large has become intensely interested in the out-
come of the whole situation. A short while ago
England got off the gold standard, on which she
had been since just after the war. Then Ramsay
MacDonald resigned as head of the Labor govern-
ment, and was placed in the leadership of the
coalition forces. Last week came the startling vic-
tory at the polls; Ramsay MacDonald received a
vote of.trust and support from the British nation.

With the policies and actions of England affect-
ing the United States and the rest of the world
as they necessarily do, it is no small wonder that
the statesmen of this and. other countries are
watching closely the results of Great Britain’s
moves. |

Friday night Mr. C. Douglas Booth, a member
of the Royal Institute of International Affairs,
will speak to the Davidson student body on the
subject, “British Foreign Policy.” A man so well
acquainted with British affairs, and also their rela-
tion to other nations, should present a most in-
teresting insight on the present predicament, or
situation, in which England now finds herself.

THE LIBRARY

In the general rush of events on the campus
there is often a tendency to overlook, or to ac-
cept as natural, certain improvements and addi-
tions which are made in the equipment of the
college. This is a great oversight on the part of
those who are guilty, and that includes a large
percentage of the student body.

Two years ago an efficient assistant librarian
was secured by the college, thus improving great-
ly the library staff. Later on a thoroughgoing sur-
vey was made of the needs of the library by Dr.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

What Do You Think?

The Ring-Tum Phi, the college newspaper of Wash-
ington and Lee, gives us the following quotation from
The St. Bonaventure on the subject of “This Thing
Called ‘Spirit’.”

“On practically every campus there is a great deal of
talk about school spirit. Much of it is plain “blah,” but
some of it is justifiable and even valuable. While admit-
ting that there exists something aptly termed school
spirit, the saner student often fights shy of pointing at
any particular accepted manifestation of it and labeling
it the real thing. We mean that the clear thinking col-
legian, working on an experimental basis, does not always
conclude that the man who sings the “fight songs” most
lustily, and who treats the crowd to an almost simian ex-
hibition whenever the home team gains a little ground,
is the most loyal son of Alma Mater. Certainly not, and
while these more or less physical protestations are fine—
in moderation always—they must be viewed in perspec-
tive.

There are other ways, better ways, and even more
worthy ways of showing fealty. But these are not
always easier ways and therein is the rub. For in-
stance, it is none too easy to refrain from “welch-
ing” when things go a little awry, when that per-
mission is refused, however justly, or what a change
in the weather, way, or an empty post office box has
made us just a bit sore at the world in general. What
any educational institution needs is a student body
with a willingness to “give it a break,” with a sense
of values enabling it to make allowances for the hu-
man element in all things. These are the materials
of which a real school spirit is made. :

“Here there is a real spirit, a spirit at its best is truly
charitable. It is not superficial but it is not always parad-
ed. At times, indeed, it seems somnolent, but once having
met it we dare not doubt its existence. The older stu-
dents are so familiar with it that they have almost ceased
to think of it as less than something of which they them-
selves are a part. We want that spirit to continue and to
grow, and so we ask everyone who really desires to

- make a sometimes overworked phrase really vital to take

his own reactions apart and see just how closely they
measure up to the real thing. And if they don’t quite
measure, let’s get to work on them.”

From The Parley Voo, of Converse College, we learn

| _thgt-Miss Amelia Bruns, a Senior at Converse, won the

Atwater-Kent contest for girls of North Carolina held
in Raleigh. Miss Bruns sang as the winning number,
“Je Suis Titania”—Mignon. The second place in the con-
test went to Miss Doris Kimil of Winston-Salem. First
place in the boys’ contest was won by Walter Peterson
of Bolton, N. C. As the winner of this contest, Miss
Bruns will go to Louisville, Kentucky, to compete in the
Southern contest. This will be held on November 18 and
all the Southern States will send representatives up there.
The winners of this Southern contest will go to the
North to compete in the national contest.

According to The Emory Wheel, newspaper of Emory
University, near Atlanta, Charles Curtis, Vice-President
of the United States, was a visitor on the campus last
week. He was interviewed by one of the correspondents
of The Wheel and the following information was gath-
ered from the interview : :

“Get all the education you can! The chief aim of a
college education is to enable one to prepare himself for
the profession of his choice. Everybody recognizes that the
college man of today has the advantages. As one gets
older he realizes more and more the necessity for a higher
education. Speaking from my own experience, the values
of a college education cannot be appreciated in the slight-
est degree until one has reached full maturity. So I say
get all the education you can. The time will come when
you will need it.”

We find from The Agnostic, of Agnes Scott College,
that Bishop McConnell, president of the Federated Coun-
cil of Churches of America and Bishop of New York
City, spoke there on October 21 on the subject of pres-
ent-day thought. He began his talk with a plea for open-
mindedness. This was illustrated by a story of a mytholog-
ical island where the minds of the people were trans-
parent. This was not his idea of the ideal state. Next he
pointed out that the great mass of people in their thought
today are not really adding anything that is constructive.
The next point was that there must be broadened view-
points and minds attuned to tell the bits of real gold from
the dross. He concluded by saying that the training re-
ceived in such schools as Agnes Scott best prepares one
for such accomplishments.

L. R. Wilson, of the University of North Caro-
lina, who is an expert in library work.

At the instigation of the college the Carnegie
Corporation of New York appropriated $15,000
to the library for the purchase of books; $5,000

_ of this to be available each year for three years.

' An order for these new books for this year is now
being prepared. This caused the need for new
book shelves, which were purchased last year.

The new lighting system has been very. favor-
ably noticed. An expert from the Duke Power
Company was secured for the proper adjustment
of the lights for the students. In past years the
library has closed at nine o’clock every night; now,
through the use of student assistants, it remains
open until eleven. -

The English Department of the school is giving
instruction in the use of the library by taking
small groups through and making explanations.

By glancing over this brief list of the improve-
ments that have been made in the library alone,
we realize just how much work is done that is
never noticed by the student body in general. The

library has now reached the limit of its capacity

and any other additions made to it will necessitate
a new building.

Whenever a defense is put up for a new gas tax
it is always that “the automobile owners pay it.” This
sounds like automobile owners were not considered
human beings.

Kilby prison now claims the tallest man it has ever
housed. A law violator committed recently measures six
feet, eight and three-quarter inches up and down. This
can be no “mean” criminal.

It is presumed that the new British government just
elected will set about to put into effect a protective tar-
iff. As England is one of the best customers of the United
States, this fact is said to be disturbing to the adminis-
tration at Washington. But can they realize anything dif-
ferent than if a tariff is good for this country it will not
also be good for England?

Since so much of it is moved through the streets
and over the highways now by motor truck, one is
given a better idea of the enormity of the cotton
crop and its products. Great trucks hauling cotton
in the seed, cotton in the bale, cotton seed, cotton
seed meal and hulls are moving almost every hour
of the day and night. Just watch the Davidson to
Charlotte highway for an hour any day of the week.

President Hoover believes the Philippines should not
be given their freedom until the islands’ finances are-on
a more firm footing. If he is going to put things on a
financial basis. us in this country will be in
chains before long

most of

Arthur Brisbane says. “Germans expect nothing but
trouble. They are used to it.” That’s an unfortunate
frame of mind for an individual or a nation; and that ,too,
when we all know most of the trouble we expect never
happens.

The elections in England last week returned an
enormous majority for the national government and
made secure the position of Prime Minister Ramsay
MacDonald. The results of the elections should have
a stabilizing effect upon the country and prove an
aid to business.

Only a city the size of New York could afford a lux-
ury like Mayor Walker. The Mayor has announced that
in 1932 he needs $120,240 for the hire of chauffeurs and
clerical help alone, and expenses for the upkeep of his
staff. will be $328,740.

Millions of dollars have been added to the value of
the South's cotton crop in the last ten days, and no one
will deny that it is the result of a manifest determina-
tion on the part of the farmers, bankers, and business men
to turn about in our agricultural methods. If they all
display the nerve to go through with their plans for cur-
tailed produttion and more living on the farms they will
see more millions added.

Japan may disclaim any idea of war and protest that
her actions in Manchuria are only for the protection of
her nationals; nevertheless she is treading on dangerous
ground that can lead to armed conflict that will draw
in nations other than the two directly concerned at this
time, and that is ‘the reason the world looks on with
apprehension. If Japan does not want war, why does she
persist in walking around an open powder can with a
torch in her hand?

Under plans formulated last week by the post
office department of the United States, temporary
employment will be given 171,070 people during the
Christmas holidays. They will be employed ten days
as clerks, carriers, and laborers in post offices and
get sixty-five cents an hour for a ten-hour day.

An ebb tide in the steady stream of gold flowing from
domestic mines to America’s well-filled coffers in the
next decade is expected by scientists.

Troubles of Great Britain, Sweden, and Norway and
other gold standard nations have revived discussion here
among geologists and minertilogists of this country’s fu-
ture raw gold supply.

Although none of the experts would venture a flat
prediction, all held to the theory future discoveries would

* be negligible while existing fields would slowly be ex-

hausted.

A sharp break in gold production in 1915 was consid-
ered as a supporting factor. That year, America reached
her production peak, 4,823,672 ounces. It has now climbed
to slightly more than 2,000,000 ounces annually.

Officials of the geological survey cited a report by the
gold delegation of the league of nations financial com-
mittee in 1930 as probably the most accurate estimate of
America’s future production. Prepared largely by the
geological survey with the co-operation of the bureau
of mines, the report estimates that this country’s output
until 1940 will remain at an average of 2,000,000.

International statistics predict the United States will
relinquish second place in world production ranking to
Canada by 1933, and drop from the valued output of
$42,800,000 in 1930 to $36,100,000 in 1940. South Africa
now leads with upward’ of $200,000,000 yearly.

From our friendly rival, Wake Forest, comes. the
news that they have the largest student body in the his-
tory of the school. Old Gold and Black, Wake Forest's
newspaper, tells us that to date 725 ‘students have en-
rolled, 265 of that number being members of the Fresh-
man class. The former record for attendance at this
school was held by the year 1926-27, which hada total
of 716 students. Of this year’s enrollment, Campbell and
Boiling Springs each furnished more men than any other
junior college; Mars Hill was close behind.

“|. Of Ships & Shoes—
& Sealing Wax—
Of Cabbages & Kings...”

Duncan McBryde

HALLOWE’EN REMINISCENCES

(A Sonnet)

Never was the moon so radiant;

Never was the air so sweet—

Never blew the wind so softly »

Down the cool sequestered street.

Never murmured babbling brooklets

So caressing; never sung

So enthralling all the mock-birds,

To their chirping, begging young.

Than the time you said you loved me
And promised you'd be true;

Than the time you gently kissed me,
(And to my doubts you bid adieu);
Than the time we were together last,
And with this thought I’m through.

Cal Calculator says:

Advertising pages indicate that members of our most
promising and wealthy families are willing to endorse
almost anything, except a poor relation’s note.

TODAY'S BEST DEPRESSION STORY:

“Well, who's been waiting the longest?” asked the
dentist cheerfully as he opened the door of his inner
office.

“TI think I have,” said the tailor, presenting his bill.
“I delivered that suit you're wearing three years ago.”

P. S. TO PROSPECTIVE HUSBANDS

The lives of married men remind. us,
As their lives we read about—

That for wives we'd better find us
Some that aren’t so strong or stout.

SHE SEEMS TO BE A GOOD SPORT

(Taken from a Sports Page Item)

“At athletic meets all over the country she competes
in dashes, hurdles, discus, shot, javelin, and standing
broad and high jumps. She plays volley ball, basketball,
football, and baseball. She is an excellent equestrienne,
and plays a good game of tennis. In addition to that,
Rena is just a stay-at-home girl.”

A POEM
DEDICATED TO THE FELLOW WHO SAID
THAT THERE WAS NO NEW
RIME SCHEME
“CELIBATED CELEBRITIES”

(Rime scheme: aaaaa, bbbbb, ccccc, ddddd)

O’er all the earth
You'll find a dearth
Of men with girth
Or financial worth
As Ambrose J. Smirth.

He’s four feet ’round
(When run aground),
His wealth is sound,
So it’s told around,

(I’ve found).

BUT, THE LOWN DOWN GOOP,
HE BLOWS ON HIS SOUP,
SAYS “POO POO PA DOOP,”
AND “OOPS, M’DEAR, OOP,”
LIKE’ A REGULAR SNOOP.

So pay no attention;
But prevent his retenticn
By social convention,
And give him no mention
For good intention.

Good BYE (AND BYE)

The following is quoted from a selection in The Parley
Voo, paper of Converse College, and was written by one
of the students there. This is only a part of the selection:

“The students of today, like the servants of old, must
first love knowledge, and have the real desire to learn
and education, as it is regarded today, may consist of
the rudiments of learning—a little mathematics, history,
English, and some foreign language. Too great a number
of people go through college simply because it is custom-
ary to study these rudiments; but they have no real in-

. terest in them. They could never, like Pascal, delvé into

unknown things and think them out just for the sake
of knowledge, these people are not true scholars.

“The ideal student of today is the one who is in-
terested in his subject for love of that subject, and
from an innate desire to learns He views his topic
from all angles, inspired by the glamour of seeking
knowledge. And to my mind the true scholar is he
who, remotely, and often without expectation of suc-
cess, hopes some day to discover a new truth, which,
through all. the ages, has escaped the knowledge of

”
man,
