THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 13, 1931

’CAT NINE
MEETS DUKE
TODAY

THE SPORTS PARADE

ALL SPORTS
ACTIVITIES CLOSE
THIS WEEK

B. B. SHOTS

By B. B. SUGG

o

@
Vv

If Pathe News, Inc., had only had a man
here to cover the Senior-Faculty game,
what a sensation it would have created!
If only the Charlotte Hornets had sent a
man to scout the game, what vivid re-
ports he would have brought back to
Charlotte! What form! What pitching!
What hitting! Whatta game!

Frankly speaking, our admiration for
the majority of the faculty’s intellectual
capacities has more or less extended to
cover their prowess in the field of ath-
letics. Indeed, the sight of several Phi
Beta Kappa men, and supposedly confirm-
ed intellectual fanatics, smacking the ole
apple out of the lot and fielding 100 per
cent was startling to say the least.

Casting aside all classroom restraint and
decorum, the faculty donned old clothes,
and though appearing to be holding a
Bowery Ball of its own, presented one of
the most exciting ball games of the sea-
son. Cries of, “Pitch to ’em, C. K.”;
“smack it out, Ernie”; “atta way, Dutch”;
rent the air, and the entire stands seemed
at times to be keyed up to a pitch ap-
proaching delirium.

C. K, Brown—Dr: to you, sir—pitched a
fine brand of ball up to the seventh in-
ning, when the ole soup bone obviously
weakened, and was relieved in the ninth
by Captain Pritchett.

Ernie’s Inning

Professor Cullum was undoubtedly the
star of the game. His big chance came in
the fourth inning, and he was waiting for
it. Upon Parker’s long fly to left, Ernie
backed up, ran around in circles once or
twice, planted his feet firmly, and with a
snarl of defiance, reached up and pulled
it into the ole tar bucket. Whatta man!
But wait; not content with this, Ernie
handled two more in the same manner,
one of ’em a shoe string catch. Three outs
unassisted, in one inning, in less than five
minutes, and with the sun beaming down
in his eyes!

As the professor came in from the field,
the stand rose with one accord in accla-
mation of such a dextrous feat. And then,

Ernie modestly rendered his silent appre-

ciation by smacking out a screaming
single through second. Beethoven in all
his glory was not arrayed as one of these.
Before the game was over, the professor
had gotten three more hits, long ones.
Much credit should be given Dutch
Hengeveld and Kim Kimbrough for their
excellent fielding and hitting. Both are old
veterans in the game and appeared much
at home on the diamond.'Their throws to
first were especially commendable, as
were their timely hits in critical moments.

Representing the “rotesey” department,
Captain Otto came through with flying
colors. He immediately made _ himself
known early in the game by his spectacu-
lar grandstand catch in center field. As
the crack of a long fly to center was
heard, the captain quickly executed “to
the rear, march,” and his following ac-
tions had all the appearances of a jui
jutsi expert executing “as skirmishers.”
However, he managed to untagle himself
just in time to get under the ball and let
it fall triumphantly in his glove.

We might continue in more detail the
narrative of this epic battle between ‘the
scholars and blockheads, but space does
not permit it. However, regardless of
space, far be it from us to leave unmen-
tioned the spectacular playing of Profes-
sors Fulcher and Lily, and Mr. Hobart.
Fulch did well behind the bat, but couldn’t
catch a foul ball to save his neck. Henry
Tracy badly misjudged one in right field,
but made up for it by two scorching
singles, one of them scoring two men.
And Mr. Hobart’s base running would
have made Charlie Paddock blush with
shame.

Well, it’s all over, but the memories
linger Still. Incideritally, the Seniors won
| the game.

Wildcat Athletic Teams
Close Season This Week

Freshman Nine Meets Belmont
Abbey in Year’s Last Game

The remaining Davidson College athletic
teams still in training. will all bring their
schedules to a close this week, with five ath-
letic contests for the seven days marking
the valedictory appearances of the various
squads. The varsity. baseball team has played
two games, the Freshman nine a like num-
ber, and one tennis match has completed the
quintet of contests for the Wildcat teams,

The varsity baseball team struck two tar-
tars for its closing melees, when it met
N. C. State at Raleigh Tuesday afternoon,
and the Duke University Blue Devils will
be met in Durham Wendesday in the sea-
son finale. Both teams held victories over
the Wildcats in previous meetings this sea-
son, and were slated to win again. How-
ever, the best game of the year for Davidson
was against Duke here, and should the
Wildcats be able to garner a few bingles off
the Blue Devil hurlers, there may be a dif-
ferent story in the offing.

The Davidson Freshmen were defeated
twice this week, both times by top-heavy
scores, but they will come back home for
their final two games in the hopes of doing
better. The scheduled game with Charlotte
High was rained out, and they will ring
down the curtain on all athletic contests
fox Davidson for the year in a game here
Friday afternoon with Belmont Abbey.

Davidson Wins Over
Cadet Tennis Team

The Davidson College tennis team de-
feated The Citadel by a score of 4 to 3 on
the afternoon of May 8. This was the first
home match of the season for the Wildcat
racqueteers. Davidson captured three of the
five singles contests, and one of the pair
of doubles contests. Only two of the
matches required more than two sets to de-
termine the winner.

Results: Singles, DuBose (D), defeated
Spann (C), 6-0, 6-3; McLean (D), defeat-
ed HolJiday (C), 6-4, 6-2; Dial (C), de-
feated Roddey (D), 6-2, 6-1; Duckett (C),
defeated Calder (D), 6-4, 3-6, 7-5; Captain
Poe (D), defeated Farr (C), 6-1, 2-6, 6-3.

Doubles: DuBose and Calder (D), de-
feated Dial and Spann (C), 6-1, 6-4; Farr
and Ducket (C), defeated Roddey and Poe
(D), 6-2, 6-1.

Seniors and Faculty
To Play Golf Match

During Thursday, Friday and Saturday
of this week, a novel golf match will be
held bewteen members of the Davidson Col-
lege faculty and a team chosen from the
Junior-Senior classes. The Junior-Senior
team will probably be composed of the 14
high ranking men on the golf team, and
the opposing team will be selected from
prominent golf players in the Davidson fac-
ulty and the town of Davidson.

This match promises to be a closely con-
tested one for the reason that the student
team will have as its members two of the
men composing the North Carolina intercol-
legiate championship golf team. The faculty
team will undoubtedly render strong com-
petition, since several of its players are
golfers of no mean repute.

The Junior-Senior team will probably be
selected from the following men: Jack Pep-

Varsity Baseball Team
Meets Duke Nine Today

Blue Devils Hold One Early Season
Defeat Over ’Cats

This afternoon Davidson meets one of its
most powerful opponents, Duke University.
Duke has recently completed a rather suc-
cessful northern tour of two victories and
one defeat. On April 27, Pennsylvania broke
Duke’s winning streak by a score of 11 to
10, in Philadelphia. McKeithan, Duke hurl-
er, yielded thirteen hits. On April 29, Duke
stretched five hits into six runs to beat
Princeton, 6 to 5. Three of Duke's five hits
were homers, two by Shore, third baseman,
and one by Combs, pitcher. The Blue Devils
downed the University of New York on
May 1, on Ohio Field, by a score of 12
to ll.

So far, Duke has defeated every team
in the Big Five, including Davidson. earlier
in the season. This game was a nip and
tuck affair until the fourth inning when the
Wildcats weakened, and the Blue Devils
came out on the long end of a 4-1 score.
Should Lefty Thompson pitch against. the
Devils today, there is a strong probability
that the ’Cats will give Duke a run for her
money.

It will be remembered that the Wildcats
performed the unexpected last year by de-
feating the Blue Devils in their first game
of the series, although they lost’ the: second,
as they were previously doped to lose.

Pearce Hurls ’Cats
To Win Over Bears

The Davidson baseball team downed Le-
noir-Rhyne by a score of 12-5 on May 5.
The Wildcats rapped out a total of 15 hits
during the contest, sending two pitchers to
the showers in the first five innings. Seller
and Meismer of the Bears allowed five runs
to the Davidson nine in the first part of the
contest, but Erdley held the ’Cats scoreless
for the last four rounds.

Pearce went the whole route for David-

son. He allowed the opposition but seven
hits. .
Score: : R H E
Davidson ~-------- 204 150 000—12 15 3
Lenoir-Rhyne ----- 201 000 002— 5 7 3
Batteries: Pearce and Armeld; Seller,

Meismer, Erdley, and Hughes.

Davidson Beats Erskine
In Tennis by 6-1 Score

On last Monday afternoon the Wildcat
tennis team defeated the Erskine team by
the score of 6-1. Davidson dropped one of
the singles macthes, but came back victorious
in all of the doubles matches to overwhelm
the opposing team. The most spectacular
match of the afternoon was the one in which
Gettys, of Erskine, after dropping the first
set, 6-4°,to Calder, Davidson, came back
to take the only match won by his school
in the afternoon.

The summary of the matches is: DuBose,

per, Sparrow Mills, Hub Covington, Thad

Brock, Harry Moffett, Jas. A. Jones, Archie
McLean, John D. McConnell, Everett Hall,
Jack McKinnon, Alex Montgomery, Ned
Dwelle, J. T. Welch, and M. L. Brohard.

The faculty and town team will be se-
lected from the following men: Dr. Watts,
Dan McLemore, Dr. Moffett, Prof. Blythe,
Prof. Fulcher, Capt. Otto, Capt. Cochran,
Dr. Lingle, Sam Black, Mr. Hobart, W.
L. Younger, Tex Tilson, Flake Laird, and
Prof. Mebane.

ollege
Printing

books, Etc.
‘Nothing too large

P. M. CONWAY, DAVIDSON,
6,600 Square Feet of Floor Space Devoted Exclusively to Printing

J

Magazines, Catalogs, Programs, Newspapers, Bulletins, Hand-

Engraved Cards and Invitations.
or small for our plant—Let. us serve you.

REPRESENTATIVE

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Many Compete for
Athletic Fraternity

The Sigma Delta Psi competition hich
began last Monday, May 4 will end\on
Thursday, May 14. A great deal of interest
has been shown in this athletic fraternity by
a number of the students. Seventy-one men
have been working on the different events

and trying to qualify in as many of them
as_ possible.

The following is a list of all the events
and the qualifications that must be met by
each man before he can become a member
of the fraternity : 100-yard dash, 11 3-5 sec-
onds; 120-yard low hurdles, 16 seconds; 14
feet 3 inches; rope climb, 8.5; broad jump,
17 feet; shot out, 30 feet; baseball throw, 250
feet, or javeline throw, 130 feet; football
punt, 120 feet; one-mile run, 6 minutes ;
high jump, 5 feet; 100-yard swim, 1.45 sec-
onds; hand stand, 10 seconds; hand spring,
landing on feet; fence vault, chin high;
scholarship, eligible for varsity competition ;
posture, standard B (H. B. M.). Points are
awarded. when these qualifications are bet-
tered by the contestants and it is on this
basis that the award is made.

The following men are trying to qualify
in all events and become members of the
fraternity: George, Gwyn, Flinn, Neal, T.,
Kuykendall, Ed, Brown, H. S., Brock, T.,
Roane, Sugg, Rhyne, Hall, R.
Morrow, Slaughter, Fleagle,
craft, Little, Corbin, Drake,
Pratt, Dill, Pratt-Thomas, O’Keefe, Kuy-
kendall, “Cal,” Rice, Pennington, Adcox,
Moffett, Allen, Gilmer, Shaw, Harrison
Hunter, Clark, Curlee, Johnson, Bettis
Huneycutt, Currie, Covington, Brannon,
Cannon, Tyack, Wiley, McMillan, Stroud,
McFadyen, J. D., Knox, “Pete,” Halybur-
ton, West, Coble, McFadyen, Taylor, Mc-
Elrath, Cochran, Howard, Ramseur, Wag-
ner,.Montgomery, Brohard, Tom, McCallie,
Wilsons H. A., Creech, Rule, McBryde,
Hardy, and Mathis.

These students are trying not only to
qualify in all events but to get extra points
as well: Flinn Brown, H. S., Brock, T.,
Roane, Sugg, Little, Peabody, O’Keefe, Pen-
nington, Curlee, Johnson, and Knox. A beau-
tiful plaque or shield will be awarded to the
winner some time after the competition is
finished. -

Mann, Ash-
Peabody, Scott,

OFFICERS FOR CLASS
(Continued from page 1)
men chosen on the basis of scholarship to
take part in the final exercises. These will
not be known until after examinations. Rep-
resentatives of the class of '31 on the Alumni
Council wer also elected.

Davidson, beat Reid, Erskine, 6-2, 6-4; Poe,
Davidson, beat T, Gettys, Erskine, 6-2, 7-5;
McLean, Davidson, beat Auten, Erskine, 6-3,
6-2; Gettys, Erskine, beat Calder, Davidson,
4-6, 8-6, 6-3; Roddey, Davidson, beat Brad-
ford, Erskine. In the doubles, Calder and
DuBose, Davidson, beat Gettys and Auten,
6-1, 6-4; Myers and Poe, Davidson, beat
Reid and Gettys, Erskine, 6-2, 6-2.

S., Martin,

Faculty hase to Seniors
In Baseball Classic 17-11 |

Brown Pitches Well for Faculty But
Weakens in Eigth Inning

8 cere

CULLUM OUTSTANDING

Seniors Make Hits Count for Runs

-On Friday, May 8, the grey but proud
heads of the Davidson faculty were forced
to bow themselves in defeat as the Senior
class baseball nine administered them a
17-11 licking. At no time during the game
could the faculty gain. the lead over - the
Seniors, but several times threatened to
overhaul their lead. The lycky seventh was
the\only inning in which the faculty ap-
proached within two runs of the Seniors,
and the game ended ‘with the score 17-11. se

Dr. C. K. Brown pitched well for the fac-
ulty up until the seventh inning, when he
showed signs of weakening, and the Seniors’
ability to bunch hits was responsible for
their victory. Moffett for the Seniors was
wild and was relieved in the fourth by Ga-
better control over his

briel, who had

curves. :

Professor Cullum of the music department .
was easily the outstanding player of the
game, getting four hits out of five times at
bat, and handling all his chances in left field
without a miscue for a fielding average of
1,000 per cent.

The fielding of Kimbrough at short, Hen-
geveld at third, and Captain Otto in center
field was also notable. Hengeveld and Kim-
brough showed that they were maestros in
the old school of baseball by their smooth
form in handling all their chances well.

The box score follows:

Seniors Ab R H
Ramseur, 88 oo-o-----5---- 6 3 4
arkery C cccseaseseeeeooo 6 3 4
Smith, Gb s2--4----------- 6 2 4
Caldwell cb c22----------- 6 1 3
Garbett: Ab: codes eden sc28 1 2
Rusk, 1b wapen-n---- ===“ 2 3
ale Oe cere errr ee 2 0 0
Lowrance, cf -------------- 4 2 2
INGA isl fsccaeccencnooceeos 2 0 1
McCutchan, If ------------ 3 1 2
Gabriel, p -s-------------- 2 2 2
McMillan, rf -------------- 2 0 1
Meacham, rf -+------------ 2 1 1
Moffett, p> --------------- 3 1 1

Motalse sosoce eee soos 50 19 31

Faculty Ab R H
(OXR%), eee 6 1 2
Rlopattn 20) cacna=ass--- a= 6 2 3
Hengeveld, 3b ------------ 5 2 3
Kimbrough, ss ------------5 1 3
Brown,’ p --------------+- 5 1 4
Pritchett, Ib -------------- 5 2 4
Gtlltimielt) sosenee==2]--=-— 5 1 4
Watts; tf o------s--------= 2 1 2
MOSUNY, 82 caer 2 0 2
Fulcher, c ---------------- 5 0 1

Motale sae seeo esos aeeee 47 11 28
Santi) ase 017 011 072—19 31
Macultyeseenssosessene 030 100 430—11 28

Batteries: Seniors, Moffett and Gabriel,

Parker; Faculty, Brown and Pritchett, Ful-
cher.

Davidson Theatre

Monday and Tuesday, 18th and 19th
JACK OAKIE

“DUDE RANCH”
JUNE PER
Wednesday, 20th

Bele 1 SINNERS”
DOROTHY  YORDAN

y, 21st
“NEVER THE TWAIN SHALL MEET”
‘ Friday, 22nd
“Se IN”
CLARA BOW

—-
