THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 18, 1931

WHAT SPORTS WRITERS THINK

Everett Struper, former Georgia Tech football
star, has officiated at two Davidson football
games this fall, and after each one he has gone
back to Atlanta and devoted a number of para-
graphs in The Atlanta Journal to the playing
of Davidson. Some time ago a special article
was devoted to his musings after the N. C.
State tilt, and today an account of his comment
is given as he wrote it after the V. M. I. con-
test. Harllee Branch, Jr., ’27, of Atlanta, sent
in the clipping, which is as follows:

. “Saturday I saw the Davidson Wildcats lick
the big V. M. I. team, 7 to 0, and it was cer-
tainly a battle from the whistle. I do not see |
how those Wildcats lasted the entire game, for |
they look as if they put every ounce of energy |
into every play, but at the end of the game they |
appear as fresh as their opponents. |

“I wish that Tech or Georgia would |
put the Wildcats on their schedules so
that the people of Atlanta could see this |
little team battle.

“Not that I think Davidson could beat the |
powerful Bulldogs, but they would give them |
a fight. |

“Back in 1915-16-17 when Tech had a
series of its most powerful teams Da- |
vidson was always on the schedule and |

for those three years they gave us the|

hardest games of the entire ae N
the fans open-mouthed and gasping sev-

eral times they had the big Tech team |
on the ropes. |

|

“Tech had to resort to all their power to come
out victor. Each year one of the most popular
games on our schedule was that with David-

son,

“It has only a very few alumni here
but the world loves a battler and the
fans flocked out to see the little Wild-
cats tear into the big Jackets and for
the three above-mentioned years I can
personally verify that they were not dis-
appointed.

“IT honestly believe the hardest tackle I ever |
received was itr a Davidson game. I forget at |
present who the tackler was for Davidson does |
not hit one man at a time but the entire flock
seems to be on you all the time. They today
have the same type of team as of old.

“Article upon article is written about
the great deeds of the large college
coaches and their all-conference and na-
tional championship teams, but often one
entirely overlooks a job of coaching just
as efficient as in the larger colleges.

|

“For example, take Coach Younger at Da- |
vidson. I doubt if his entire squad, including his |
Freshmen, is as large as some of the college |

varsity squads. |

“Look at his material, his help, his |
equipment and everything else, then |
glance at his record and you will see

immediately what I mean by a good job |
of coaching.” |
|

|

B. Arp Lowrance, editor of The Mecklenburg |
Times and former secretary of the North Car-|
olina Press Association, was a guest of Da-|
vidson when the Wildcats defeated Citadel, and
in his next issue of The Times, he had the fol- |
lowing editorial, headed, “The Spirit at Da- |
vidson,” which was sent in by Hugh A. Query,
09, editor of The Gastonia Gazette: H

Those who have attended a football game |
or any other event at Davidson College are |
acquainted with that Davidson spirit which
seems to permeate the air on that college cam-
pus. It is particularly noticeable at a football |
game such as the one last Saturday when Da- |
vidson defeated Citadel. It was a most inter-
esting game.

|
|

But Davidson always expects to win |
the game and the whole college fac- |
ulty and students join hands and hearts |
to do their best. Even though the team |
is’ lighter by far than the opponents, |
they are never discouraged. Regardless |
of the record of the other team, David- |

son is always clean and fair in their
games. Each individual is always work-
ing with other members of the team for
the success of the whole college.

Wilton Garrison, sports editor of The Spar-
tanburg, S. C., Herald, joined his contemporary
at Charleston, S. C., in saying some very nice
things in his column under the head, “The

Wildcats,” as follows:

If you always want to be sure of getting
plenty of football action for your money, just
follow the Davidson Wildcats. How Monk |
Younger and Tex Tilson do it every year is
still a miracle, but nevertheless, they do it, and |
no matter how blue the blues songs are in|
September, by October the Wildcats are knock- |
ing ‘em off as per usual. |

This year, starting with only fair pros-
pects, the Wildcats have won four, lost
two and tied two. They defeated Elon,
Washington and Lee, V. M. I., and
the Citadel; tied Duke and Erskine;
lost to V. P. I. and N. C. State: Consid-
ering the calibre of the teams they’ve
met, the Wildcats have a record of which
to be proud. And Monk Younger isn’t
through with his wrecking crew yet,
either. Several other good football teams
may learn how it feels to have those
Presbyterian cats claw and scratch.

The Gastonia Gazette was also responsible
for the opinion of one of the officials that day,

who remarked to Monk Younger:

“You ought not to mind if your team
got beat 100 to 0, as long as they fight
like they did today. I would not mind a
loss with a team like that.”

r.3

ALUMNI PERSONALS

Among recent alumni visitors to Davidson
were Dr. F. S. Whitaker, '05, of the North
Carolina Medical College when it was located
at Davidson, of “Kinston, and his brother, R.
EE. Whitaker, '06, of New York.

Dr. John T. Burrus, 1900 Medical College
alumnus, of High Point, who is a state sena-
tor and chairman of the North Carolina Board
of Health, has been named as the executive
head of the new Randolph Hospital at Ashe-
boro, Dr. Burrus heads two large hospitals at
High Point and does surgery for another at
Lexington,

Mayor Geo. W. Coan, Jr., ’11, of Winston-
{Salem, who visited France last summer as a
iguest of the French government and the city
[oF Paris, has spoken frequently before various

clubs, telling about his experiences, and recently
appeared before the Kiwanis Club at Martins-
ville, Va.

Dr. Thos. D. Sparrow, '16, of Charlotte, has
been made a fellow in the American College
of Surgeons. This honor was conferred at the
annual meeting in New York recently.

J. P. Harmon, '28, who is coaching and teach-
ing at Jennings, has heen promoted to first
licutenant in the infantry reserve corps of the
U. S. Army.

Dr. Yates W. Faison, '06, of Charlotte, was
made president of the Nerth Carolina Pediatric
Society when it was organized last week at
Duke University.

“Of course

| smoke Luckies
— they’re kind to my throat” ¢

Luckies —1 thought everybody did.
They're kind to my throat—you
don't hear them in the microphone.

And that’s
handle on

phane wrapper.”

ke KK Ok Om

Ina Claire wasn't content with being
an acknowledged ruler of the American
; stage—now she's capturing Hollywood,
too! Here she is in one of those stunning
Chanel creations she wears in Samuel
Goldwyn’s production, “The Greeks

Artists’ picture. Don't miss that picture.

“Of course | smoke

a very neat little
your new Cello-

(B-_~

A Word For It,’’ a United

Made of the finest tobaccos —The
Cream of many Crops= LUCKY STRIKE
alone offers the throat protection of the
exclusive “TOASTING” Process which in-
cludes the use of modern Ultra Violet Rays
=the process that expels certain harsh,
biting irritants naturally present in every
tobacco leaf. These expelled irritants
are not present in your LUCKY STRIKE.
“They're out—so they can't be in!’’ No wonder
LUCKIES are always kind to your throat.

“It’s toasted”

Your Throat Protection= against irritation ~against cough

‘ And Moisture-Proof Cellophane Keeps
that “Toasted” Flavor Ever Fresh

|

TUNEIN ON LUCKY STRIKE;60 modern minutes with the world’s finest dance

orchestras, and Walter Winchell, whose gossip of today becomes the news of
tomorrow, every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday evening over N.B.C. networks.

CELLOPHANE
Sealed Tight—Ever Right

Zip—And it’s open!

MOISTURE-PROOF

The Unique Humidor Package

See the new notched tab on the top
of the package. Hold down one half
with your thumb. Tear off the other half. Simple.
Quick. Zip! That’s all. Unique! Wrapped In dust-
proof, moisture-proof, germ-proof Cellophane.
Clean, protected, neat, FRESH 1—whatcouldbe more
modern thanLUCKIES’ improved Humidor package
=so easy to open! Ladies—the LUCKY TAB

is-your finger nail protection.

xis Miss Claire’s
Statement Paid
For?

You may be interested In
knowing that not one cent
was paid to Miss Claire
to make the above state-
ment. Miss Claire has been
asmoker of LUCKY STRIKE
cigarettes for 5 years. We
hope the publicity here-
with given will be as bene-
ficial to her and to Samuel
Goldwyn and United
Artists, her producers,
as her endorsement of
LUCKIES is toyouandtous.

Copr., 1981,
The American
Tobacco Co,

