THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 4, 1931

‘CATS DEFEAT V. M. L.

(Continued from page 1)
The Cadets retaliated with three first downs in
a row as the first quarter ended.

In the second canto, in Davidson territory,
the Cadets had to punt, and Gill got off a poor
kick, giving the ’Cats the ball on their own

30-yarti=4ine. From there Pearce punted to
Smith, who raced thrqugh the entire Davidson |
aggregation until he was brought down on the |
nine-yard stripe by the redoubtable Peabody. |
Here the ’Cats held for downs, and Pearce |
punted out. After an exchange of putts =|
whistle sounded the half.

Peabody again came into the foreground soon |
after the opening of. the third period, and re- |
turned a punt from mid-field to the Cadets’
25-yard line. King gained consistently in his
first five attempts at the line, but then the wall |
held and the ball went over. Peabody returned |
Gill’s punt to the Virginians’ 36. A pass, Pearce |
to Raker, netted six, and a five-yard penalty cn |
V. M. I. gave Davidson a first down. Flinn |
then ran for a touchdown, King converting.

Davidson continued: superior in the closing |
chapter, which, with the exception of Peahody’s |
sensational 65-yard dash, passed uneventfully. |

V..M. I. Position Davidson |
Gill (C) LE. Brown |
Hilliard JES Be McElrath |
Rochelle L.G. Mathis |
Kostainsek Center Gardner |
Marklis R.G. Conway |
Straub R.T. Whitfield |
Gregory RE. Johnson
W. Smith Q.B. King
Travers L.H. Pearce
Watkins R.H. Peabody
Waite F.B. Mills
Vie Mie see cee eke 0 O 0 0—0
Davidson iscseo oe Co 0 0 i 0—7

Scoring summary: Touchdown, Flinn
for Mills). Extra point, King (placement).

Substitutes: V. M. I., Urick for Gregory;
Kaylor for Rochelle; Lavinder for Travers;
Smith for Gill; Bailey for Watkins. Davidson,
Raker (C) for McElrath; McQueen for Mills;
Wagner for Raker for Brown; Flinn for Mc-
Queen. :

Officials :*Strupper (Ga. Tech), referee; Ma-
jor (Auburn), umpire; Hartsell (N. C. State),
headlinesman.

(sub

AWARDED MEDAL

(Continued from page 4)

In announcing this recognition,
negie authorities described Mr.
rescue as follows:

“Williams saved Samuel T. Thorne, Jr., 15
months old, from burning to death at Char-
lotte, N. C., October 16, 1930.

“Samuel and his parents were asleep in a
room on the second floor of an apartment
house when the house caught fire at night.
His parents awoke, and while his father
telephoned to the fire department, his moth-
er carried him into a room adjoining a hall,
from which there was a stairway to the
street. ‘

“A sudden flare of flames and dense
smoke poured into the upper part of the
room from an adjoining room, and Samuel’s
mother became panic stricken and dropped
him.

“She reached the “door leading into the
hall, but could not open it.and leaned against
it on the verge of collapse.

“Samuel’s father went to the room, called,
became panic’ stricken, and then ran to a
porch. He returned to the room several times
but was forced back by flames and smoke.

“Williams and another man ascended the
stairway, and Williams opend the door into
the room. Smoke and heat rushed out of the
doorway, and the men dropped to their
knees, Samuel’s mother fell through the
doorway and was caught by Williams’ com-
panion and carrired down the stairway.

“Williams heard Samuel cry. He lay prone
and crawled eight feet, under the smoke and
the flames, to Samuel, and then, holding him,
backed to the door and rushed down the
stairway. Neither was burned. Samuel’s
mother was revived. His father was rescued
by firemen.”

the Car-
Williams’

CAPTAIN SEIFERT

(Continued from pgae 1)

mos that he had drawn, the speaker point-|.

“out the exact location, military import-
ance, commercial value, and topographical
features.

Realizing the tremendous importance and
value of the Canal, the Army Engineering
Corps have developed the canal zone into a
perfectly organized, and perfectly equipped
system for the efficient conveying of ocean
going vessels from the Atlantic to the Pa-
cific side and vice-versa, Although the op-
erating and maintenance of the canal is ‘high,
and although only a nominal charge per ship
is made, the Canal yields several millions of
dollars nét profit each year.

After telling about the different races and
colors of the Panama zone, the speaker re-
lated several personal experiences of the
greatest interest, notably a heroic escape

s\

We'd rather have a Chesterfield

and now we'll tell you why...

** Ziegfeld Follies of 1931’’

Helen Morgan (on piano)
Ruth Etting (at right)

Three Stars of

and

Harry Richman

Three mighty

good Yeasons,

/

“MILDER’’— smoke as many as you like!
That’s what every Chesterfield smoker

knows .. .
either. Just

riper tobaccos!

“TASTE BETTER” —you’ll like as many
as you smoke! That’s what more smokers
are learning every day. Not over-sweet-
ened, but just sweet enough for constant
enjoyment. The mild, rich flavor of the
finest Turkish and Domestic tobaccos.

“THEY SATISFY”’—én every way! The
tobacco, the paper, the package... every-
thing about Chesterfield is the best that
money can buy orthat science knows about!

and it’s not hard to prove,
try this blend of milder,

GOOD. .. they’ve got to be good!

©1931, Liccrrr & Myzrs Tosacco Co.

Scene from hunereeren Desires,” One of Three Plays to be

r by Masq

s Saturday Night

from a tremendous “Bush Monster,”
species of jungle. snake, one of the most
deadly known.

In closing, Captain Seifert said that, by
virtue of its many points of interest, as well
as its excellent climate, he could and would
heartily recommend Panama to anyone in
Bearch_of adventure, whether for a summer
vacation or a stay of longer duration.

OUTSTANDING SENIORS

(Continued from page 1)
manager of the Students’ Store, vice-presi-
dent of the Senior Class, a First Lieutenant
in R. O. T. C., and a: member of Scabbard
and. Blade. Phi Gamma Delta is Montgom-

a ,ery’s social fraternity.

L. S. Raker, Lexington, N. C., is captain
of the football team, president of the “D”
Club, was vice-president of the Junior Class,
is a Captain in R. O. T. C. He is a. member
of Scabbard and Blade and of the Kappa
Alpha secial fraternity.

N. G. Speir, Charlotte, N. C., is manager
of the Students’ Store, on the Student Coun-
cil, a member of the “Y” Cabinet, was pres-
ident of the Junior Class. Speir is a member
of the International Relations Club and of
the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.

The other members of O. D. K. are E. C.
Dwelle, R. P. Enloe, R, W. Gorrell, D. S.
King, J. H. McKinnon, D. M. McQueen, and
D. G. Martin.*

For Subscriptions or Extra Copies
of

THE YOWL

See

GAITHER JENKIN
l EAST

New Price, 25 Cents

« Year’s Subscription (Four Issues) $1.00

