THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 29, 1931

Interesting Statistics
In Senior Questionnaire

Statistics Based on Answers to 150
Questions

The Senior questionnaire was compiled
by the Davidsonian through the co-opera-
tion of the Senior class. These question-
naires were given out at the Senior. smoker
before Christmas and the facts and statistics
have been collected. Sixty-nine of these
questionnaires’ were returned, the majority
of them being filled out there. Approximate-
ly 150 questions were asked, some of them
relating to curricula and extra-curricular
activities, and others to the personal opin-
ions and activities of the students. None of
the questionnaires were signed;-the idea be-
ing to obtain unbiased opinions if possible.
All figures were, of course, taken from the
69 that were returned, and are averages or
totals as the nature of the question requires.

The average age of the Seniors is 21,
most of them having entered when they
were seventeen. Fifty-nine out of the 69
attended Davidson for the entire four years,
ten having attended college elsewhere. No
two men went to the same school. One man
went to each of the following schools: V. M.
I, West Virginia, Tennessee, High Point,
Washington and Lee, Hampden-Sydney,
Maryville, Furman, Piedmont (Georgia),
and The Citadel.

Thirty-nine out of 69 had failed at least
one course, 74 courses being failed alto-
gether. Mathematics was first with 19 fail-
ures; Bible came second with 12 failures,
and English and Spanish had 8 and 6 re-
spectively. The other courses and the num-
ber of failures for each are as follows: Eco-
nomics, 5; French, 4% German, 3; chem-
istry, 3; Greek, 2; Latin, 2; public speak-
ing, 2; accounting, 2; botany, 1; geometry,
1; geology, 1; philosophy, 1. Thirty-seven
out of these 69 believed that they would have
passed these courses-if they had been as
familiar with college life as they are now.

The home states and the number of stu-
dents from each are as follows: North Car-
olina, 34; South Carolina, 8; Alabama, 5;
Tennessee, 4; Virginia, 4; Georgia, 4; West
Virginia, 3; Mississippi, 2; Texas, 2; Louis-
jana, 1; Maryland,.1; District of Colum-
bia, 1. :

Thirty fathers of the men did not attend
college; 39 of them did. Davidson led the
number of colleges with 10. These colleges
were also represented: Westminster, 3;
Johns Hopkins, 2; Georgia, 2; Guilford, 2,
and the following .with one each: Maryland,
Southwestern, Kentucky, Louisville Dental
College, Yale, Washington and Lee, Roan-
oke, Marion, Wake Forest, Centre, Atlanta
School of Medicine, Westminster of Pa.,
West Virgniia, Texas, Washington Univer-
sity, U. of Washington, Missouri, Furman,
Anatolia, Oberlin, Maryville, N. C. State,
Eastman Business College, Hampden-Syd-
ney, Jefferson, and N. C. Medical School.
Financial interests did not play a part in
the choice of 54, the other 15 were influ-
enced by financial’ reasons.

Number of Schools May
Be Decreased in State

Raleigh.—If the recommendation of the
Educational Commission is followed there
will be not only a fewer number of charter
school districts, but there will also be nearly
200 fewer small rural schools, it is learned
from the report of that body.

The commission includes as a. part of sec-
tion 9 of recommended bill number one,
whith it submitted to the General Assembly,
the provision that it should be deemed un-
lawful for any county board of education in
the state to provide for high school instruc-
tion in’a district in which the attendance
of high school pupils for the next preceding
year was less than fifty, unless and until
every other plan for caring for such schools
has been ascertained by careful calculations
to be more expensive.

The commission, it is learned, included
this recommended change as a part of the
proposed law after determining that high
schools having fewer than 50 pupils are the
most expensive type. According to its report
there were 192 rural high schools which had
less than this number in average daily at-
tendance during 1929-1930. These schools
had from one to four teachers employed, a
total of 370 in all.

The commission presents a table showing
the number. of high schools of various sizes
throughout the state. According to this table
there are 50 high schools having one teacher,
74 having two teachers, 166 having three
teachers, 125 having four teachers, 109 hav-
ing five teachers, 77 having six teachers, 58
having seven teachers, Ai having eight teach-
ers, 15 having nine teachers, 8 having ten
teachers, and 52 having more than ten teach-

|

Statistics Made of

Davidson Infirmary

Davidson Five and

Ten Years Ago

—____“/f

A satisfactory and detailed statistical
study of the Davidson College infirmary has
recently been completed by the members of First freshman track squad was formed
Professor C. K. Brown’s economic 4 class. |in the spring of ’25. Due to intercollegiate
Investigation revealed that, during the school | ruling, no freshmen would be allowed to
year of 1929-1930, which included 236 days,| compete in any varsity track meet.
the “infirmary population” was known to be |
as follows:

The basket ball team left on the first

|three trpis of the season. This trip led

No. of Days No. Men Confined ltiem through North Carolina. Two oth-
© 27_----------- -0 (er trips took them into Virginia and
33.------------------------- 1 | South Carolina. On these trips teams
63_.---.-------------------- 2 |such as V. M. I, Washington and Lee,
51-------------------------- 3 | N. C. State, Furman and Wofford were
Hi eater Mel meena wens mere eaten " | ntet.

a ne 6 Davidson student body passed resolu-
Ofsde cece leie oa aes 7 {tions thanking Mr. J.B. Duke for his

lee sees iadeseeeass 8 | generous gift to the institution.
During three-fourths of the 236 days stud-! The Davidsonian’s first cross word

ied, the number of men totalled 4.11, while | puzzle was published. A prize of a year’s
the most common or typical number of men | subscription to The Davidsonian was of-
was found to be 2.61. It was learned that an| fered for the first correct solution to the
infirmary which would provide for seven | puzzle.

men could take care of the students 99 per |
cent of the time. The value in this calcu- | - i : ;
lation is to consider whether or not to build | 28 begun for the first time in the spring
an infirmary that could take care of all the! “! ‘24, _The topic for debate was: Re-
possible days. Is this a fair example of just | selved, That the Philippine Islands ‘should
one school year? Two hundred and thirty- | be given their complete and immediate
six days, as shown in the figures just quoted, | independence.

would indicate quite a large number. There | Davidson five and ten.
is a possibility of epidemics, but in con- |

structing an infirmary, it is not the purpose | State Support of
to provide for epidemics. The number of |

students who reported by days in the week | Schools Suggested
averaged as follows: |

Intercollegiate debating for freshmen

Raleigh—"State participation in all the

Monday cates d2 ste eg | :
inne ote | necessary current operating expenses of the
eR er eC a ee *~ | six months’ school term on the basis of the

Wiedhesday Secseee lc ceu ces ucaeda 31.4 | , A es
current year’s business” is one of the sug-
MMUPSdAY) 02 eee ol ek eee 24.9 Sues ° A
Frida 282 gestions made by Supt. A. T. Allen in his
Shs Pieia RA ea rin a a Tea een 24.4 biennial report to the General Assembly, as
cial) ee OO LC a a

; ; the alizing fund.
The number of days during which stu- AS SHURE uae

dents actually remained in the infirmary
total as follows:
No. Students

“This fund,” says Superintendent Allen,
“has a two-fold purpose: (1) The equaliza-

No. Days Spent | tion, as nearly as may be, of the county tax

OS eee ee Sse U CAL See ou aus 1 rates levied for the operation of the six
Lear peas oe iis eeu 2 months’ school term. (2) The equalization
GOnssess ese Sasee ie cosas 3 as nearly as may be, of the educational op-
Zien Ae Sa ae 4 | portunity among the children in the sev-
TSS ER ee 8 5 | eral counties of the state.’ The administra-
Saas eaeereees epepegesy erage reer e ge 6 | tion of this fund at the present time is more
(Woe epee ares oroneeg hay Eoepap apap 7 nearly meeting its two-fold purpose than at
i gE Pe pet pret cpap en eae 8 any time in the past.
1_------------------------ 9 “IT should like to suggest two ways, how-
2_------------------------ 10 ever,” Superintendent Allen continues, “in
1.---- mane 11 which the administration of this fund can
1 --- 13 bring us a little closer to even tax rates and
1 --- 14 also a little closer to equalized educational
Two-thirds of the students who were ill opportunity.
did not remain in the infirmary for less than| ,, iia un eu
1. State participation in all necessary

two days. A total number of 242 men were
confined for some form of sickness, however,
there were never more than eight students
in the infirmary at one time. Out of the 242
patients, it is possible that he same man
may have stayed in the infirmary twice.
This leads to the question whether there
should be provided a private room for each
man who was very sick. But two-thirds of
the students who reported and who re-
mained in the infirmary for two days were
not seriously ill, having only minor ail-
ments.

The compiled report which has just been
given is the result of careful calculations. It
is apparent that the figures would be of ex-
treme value to the college administration as
well as the students, because of the fact
that the health of the student body in gen-
eral is of the utmost importance.

current operating expenses of the six months’
school term. At present the state partici-
pates in only a part of the necessary operat-
ing expenses of the six months’ term. It
does not take into consideration the incre-
ment on teachers’ salaries nor the full num-
ber of additional teachers made necessary
by increased attendance. In many counties a
much larger percentage is necessary than
the ten per cent allowed in the state ap-
proved budget for current expenses other
than salaries and transportation.

“2. Make the state participation on the
basis of the current year’s business instead
of the previous year as heretofore. At: pres-
ent the state, in making up the amount in
each county in which it will participate,
looks backward to last year’s business.

“In my opinion, both the state and county
should sit down together and face the busi-
ness of the current year, and agree ‘upon the
amount of state participation that would be
fair and equitable among all the counties.”

BOOK BY DR. BROWN

(Continued from page 1)
development of highways from the roads of
a century ago through the last of the bond
issues in 1927.

The following chapters are largely analyt-

The mayor of the city of Lynn, Mass.,
gives it out that he is going to put a
stop to flirtation on the streets. Won't
Lynn look funny, without any girls!—

Hengeveld Reports
The Enrollment i

i ked of financial | Eumenean ;
d a Mk ot al pee bee ative elm | The Eumenean Literary Society has
pai ahaa y+ scheduled for Tuesday, February 3, a very
the natural assumption would be that the |‘ ¥ 144-8
il 1 Ee would he Feduted-in-peo-| interesting program. It will include a speech
Seas ogee ees ae P | by Prof. Ernest A. Beaty, the subject of

BOS ety te Ut ireraly eee es which will be announced later, but which

i i yi hie fi a pete vig f as sh eH ‘will be valuable in future literary work, and
olla ellie aharegees Sart as 8 ‘!an oration by Rawhing Pratt-Thomas, en-

phd Liki Saad ‘titled “Lessons. From Our Sacred “Dead,”
by Senator Willis.

Literary Societies

Mr. Hengeveld’s records show that the
total enrollment for the 1930-31 scholastic
year is 628, which includes the six new stu- Philanthropic
dents who have registered for the second) phe Philanthropic Society will have a de-
semester. This is an increase of eleven new | pate and a short talk on “U. S. Trade Pol-
men over last year, as there were’ only icy,” by L. F. Cowan, on its program. The
617 students registering at Davidson the en- | debate will be “Resolved, that the United
tire 1929-30 session. | States should adopt a policy of free trade.”

The list of withdrawals has not as yet
been compiled.

DR. OREN MOORE

(Continued from page 1)
the speaker stated, new and interesting fields
of work have been opened up and one can
make an honorable choice in most any line.
The physician continued with the answers

greatest thrill you ever knew?” These three
men were a lawyer, an engineer, and him-
self. The lawyer cited an instance in which
he had saved a poverty-stricken, innocent
man from the court penalty. The engineer
told of the work he did in checking a dev-

saving of homes and farms of great value.
Dr. Moore gave as his answer to the ques-
tion an incident of a very sick woman who
was sore at heart and worried until her
physician took charge of the case; then, she
rested comfortably, trusting in the doctor.

At this point, the speaker gave a synopsis
of the pathos and suffering seen by the doc-
tor in his work. “There are all sorts of ad-
versities which beset us,” said Dr. Moore.
He asked the question, ‘What good do ad-
versities do?” and proceeded to list the aid
rendered the working man by adversities.
His first point was ‘character.’ Here he
showed instances of men who were inspired
to work harder, live more Christ-like, and
be something worth-while. As an example
of the optimistic side of adversity, Dr. Moore
told of an experience in which he went to
admire the beauty of a famous stream of

\ water. He was unable to perceive anything
at first but a shiny body of water because |

of the sun beaming down on its surface;
however, when the sun went behind a cloud,
he saw the marvelous beauty of the under-
water growth for which the stream was
noted. Thus, he explained, is adversity with
our lives. We need hard times to make us
appreciate the glories which are contained
in normal lives.

In choosing a life work, we must weigh
well the adversities’ which aré>bound to
come therein and see if we are fitted for
them. “Choosing a life work is the bunk,”
declared Dr. Moore. “One goes forward if
he qualifies. The problem is choosing one’s
partner in a life work. We must realize that
success depends on companions and environ-
ment. There is but one who is capable and
ready to accompany us on our life journey :
this one is Jesus Christ. We must find Him
because His loyalty is always unquestioned.”
The speaker urged the men of Davidson to
talk over the situation with Him just as they
would with a human partner in business.
Sweet hours. in prayer with him will mean
a wonderful help in the development of a
life work.

New “Haven, Conn.— (IP)—Professor
William Lyon Phelps, of Yale University,
a close personal friends of the former heavy-
weight fight champion, had something to do
with the appointment of “Gene” Tunney to
the military staff of Governor Cross, it was
revealed when Prof. Phelps wrote to a local

ical in nature. The author treats of the

: Cleveland Plain Dealer.
phases of the construction program, the even cuted mans

newspaper as follows:

make-up of the commission, and the eco-| ©%

nomics of highway construction as applied

to North Carolina.

According to Dr. Brown, he experienced
difficulty in developing the subject because
historical perspective is lacking and it can-
not be viewed objectively—the problem is a
present-day one. He states that he has tried |-
to give the story of the state highway sys-
tem, with due regard to the conditions of
the past out of which it grew, and without
entering into the present controversy over
roads in this state.

The book was published by the University
of North Carolina Press at Chapel Hill.

ers, a grand total of 774 public high schools.
It is believed that by the elimination of 192
of this number, the remaining 562 could of-
fer greater high school advantages at less
cost.

Garland Court

Printing and Engraving | |
of |

Every Description

P.M. CONWAY
27 Rumple

STANDARD PRINTING CO.

Charlotte, N. C.

by three men on the question, “What is the |

astating flood which work resulted in the |

| Those debating on the affirmative are M.
|F. McDavid, H. F. Nichol. Those on the
negative are S. M. Noblin, J. W. McCutchan.
| It is expected that this debate will provide
valuable experience for the varsity debates
to be held soon.

| CAPTAIN PRITCHETT

| (Continued from page 1)

in its waters and of the bird fountains, sun
| dials, and many other beautiful places: in this
ij haven of rest. He repeated the quotation of
| John Burroughs that is written in stone in
lone of the nooks of the garden, “I come
here to find myself for it is so easy to get
lost in the world.”

The speaker declared that of all the names
lhe had heard of referring to this sanctuary,
that he thought the best suited was, “a spir-
itual biography of Edward Bok which de-
picts the ideals of a man.” He stated that
he believed that God gave people talents to
use and that Bok had shown by his accom-
plishments that he felt responsible for what
he did with his. talents, and always used
them to a great advantage.

Captain Pritchett said that during these
| busy days when we are so busy and con-
cerned with worldly things, we should have
our own sanctuaries and go frequently to
them and commune with God. He mentioned
the fact that down through history the great
men had gone to sanctuaries and had re-
ceived inspiration, Men who were burdened
with responsibilities and faced problems of
deep import found in the quiet stillness of
sanctuaries an answer to their questions.

During the latter part of his message he
| said that Davidson men were a privileged
group, since the college itself was a sanc-
tuary. He went so far as to say that David-
son men should demand that it be a sanctu-
ary to them so that if moral weariness came
over them in later years they could be lifted
up and supported by the ideals cherished
during college days. He reminded the men
that the ideals of youth are higher than at
any other périod during life, and that the
great men were those who could be with the
crowd and yet take time for meditation with
themselves.

In concluding he quoted the words of
Lowell that well might have been used as
an epitaph on the tomb of Bok, “Be noble,
and the knowledge that lives in men, sleep-
ing in others, perhaps will rise in majesty
to meet thine own.”

“I see that in your paper it was stated
that I did not suggest Mr. Tunney to Mr.
Cross as an appointment to his staff. This
is true, but when Mr. Cross asked me about
it, I not only said that it would be a sen-
sational appointment, but I also said that it
would be a splendid appointment.”

Governor Cross is former dean of the Yale
Graduate School. At his recent inauguration,
his chief of staff, Mr. Tunney, received as
much of the crowd’s applause as did the
popular new governor.

| “baking Whoopee”

| Last year
Wind-
storms and
Tornadoes
“made
whoopee”
and it cost
property
owners
$13,000,000. ‘A windy and des-
tructive time was had by all,” re-
ports the U. S. Weather Bureau.
Making provision against dam-
age when the Wind is “making
whoopee” is sensible. The “cover
charge” is so low you can’t afford
to be without the protection of
Windstorm and Tornado cover.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
Insurance Department
- CHARLOTTE, N. C.

McAlister Carson (’13), Manager
M. B. Speir (’26)
