THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 2, 1931

BASKETBALL
PRACTICE BEGINS

THE SPORTS PARADE

WRESTLING TO
START SOON

Well, it’s all over now, even the shouting, and
the cussing. Again the Deacons came through
with a win, adding another to their long list
of victories and ties against the Wildcats since
1920. And we take back all we said last week,

including the jinx (somebody please take it;
we don't want it). There must be a jinx.
Nothing else could have been responsible for the
Deacons’ victory last Thursday. Twice the
Wildcats drove down the field. Twice they
should have scored. But each time—well, you
know the story.

It was a good game, all the thrills and ex-
citement a man could want. Both teams
played good football. Though the Deacons
outweighed the ’Cats, statistics—all but the
score—show the two teams about even. The
playing of Dupre for Wake Forest at guard
was matched only by the great defensive
work of Gardner for Davidson at center,
and the two Baptist ends, Green and‘ Brog-
den, were poison to the Wildcat offense.

In our opinion, Charlie Pearce played the
best all-’round game for the ’Cats. His punt-
ing, thougH erratic at times, halted the Deacons
time and again, while three of his passes re-
sulted in appreciable gains for the Wildcats.
And when he was given the hall, his elusive
twisting and turning gained ground several
times. King, on the receiving end of Pearce’s
33-yard pass, played one of his best games, and
besides playing his position at quarter like the
_veteran he knifed way through the
line time and again. McQueen's line
plunging gained much ground for the ’Cats,
while Peabody, though halted upon receiving
punts by the two flashy Wake Forest
ws good for many gains through the line.

is, his

Deacon
ends,

In the line, Raker, Mathis and Conway were

outstanding, And incidentally, Buddy Gardner
and Doe Mathis can play on our all-state eleven
any time,
Speaking of all-state elevens (everybody
else is; why can’t we?), we note many in-
teresting selections by the various coaches
in the state. Among the most interesting
was that of Coach Chuck Collins at Carolina,
who picked nine Carolina men. The very
idea! Only nine? My goodness. Well, well,
well, and a couple of pooh poohs.

Jake Wade and Coach Monk put Gardner
on their all-state team, while Floyd Simmons
selected Mathis. Well, for our selection, these
will do:

Walker, Carolina: 22. 2 End
Cobb State, es Tackle
Mathis, Davidson ______.-____________ Guard
Gardner, Davidson ___-----__--______ Center
Dupre, Wake Forest____.-____- ----Guard
Hodges, Carolina _______-___-________ Tackle
Brown; Garolina’ 2... 2. =... es End
Brewer, Duke _________________ Quarterback
Slusser, Carolina _______-___________ Halfback
King, Davidson~ __.°- Halfback
Chandler, Carolina___._____________“ -Fullback

And now we are hearing and reading a lot of
ballyhoo about a charity game to be played by
players from each team inthe Big Five. It’s a
good idea but impractical, not only from a fi-
nancial standpoint, but—well, in our Opinion, it
won't work. Neither will it pay. Practically
all players are out of training. In playing they
will have little incentive to win. It'll be hard
to get ’em together, and various other reasons.
If the governors, senators, ete.,, think a charity
game is the thing to have, why not a post-sea-
son game between Carolina and Duke?

Then farewell
Not for thy

whom I hate
but mine.—Byron.

Horace,
faults,

so,-—

If a business man cannot laugh he has no
right to get rich—Sir Thomas Lipton.

S

A. Gerskov — The Tailor

SUITS MADE TO ORDER
Cleaned 40c Pressed 20c
Remodeled and Altered
All Work Guaranteed

Globe Pressing Company

Monk Younger Issues Call
For Basketball Candidates

With Tre reee nt marking the close of the
1931 grid season, Coach Laird issued his first
call for basketball practice last Monday. Pros-
pects for the 1932 quintet are far from dark
with two lettermen in uniform, and a host of
aspirants from last year’s Freshman team, and
from the scrubs.

Captain G. L. “Doc” Mathis and Grier Mar-
tin are the men who made letters last season,
and who will be the nucleus around which
Coach Laird expects to build a capable David-
son quint. Mathis and Martin were both out-
standing players of 1931, in which Davidson
had a very creditable season, two victories over
the University of North Carolina being par-
ticularly impressive. Toward mid-season, how-
ever, the Wildcats lost two stars, and slumped
considerably, although the second victory over
the Tar Heels came during this latter period.
Other important victories included a 26-19 tri-
umph over N. C. State in the initial contest of
the year, and 27-23 and 22-20 wins over. Erskine
and Virginia Poly respectively.
the outstanding players from last
year’s scrubs are Bruce Peabody, Steve Brown,
erstwhile gridiron luminaries, and Meade Ber-
nard. These boys saw a great deal of action
in last year’s campaigns, but failed to amass
a sufficient quantity of quarters to be awarded
the varsity “D.” Fans should lot
racket from these this season,

Among

hear a of
however.
Among the members of. the 1931 Freshman
John Lafferty, Andy Manson, Jim Hal-
verstadt, and Mac Holland look good, and
should get into a great many games before the
season is over. Stars of Frosh teams
dependable though, and at this early date one
cannot tell whether these stellar players of
former games will be able to hold up agaivst
unexpected competition or not.

To date a tentative schedule has been
arranged, and for only the first part of the sea-
son at that. One new opponent appears on the
list, Fugman, who will be met on the loca! floor,
The Purple Hurrican’s invasion of the Wildeat
stronghold should furnish a good scrap, for the
Furman boys have a reputation for fight dowr
there in the Palmetto State quite similar to the
one the '¢

squad,

are not

only

‘ats enjoy.

Davidson's season opens with the formidable
Tar Heels who will be played in Charlotte on
the evening of January 9. of the
schedule follows :

The rest

Monday, Jan. 11—Furman at Davidson.
Friday, Jan. 20—Duke at Durham.

Monday, Feb, 1—Duke at Charlotte.
Thursday, Feb, 4—Erskine (place undceided).
Wednesday, Feb. 10—-N. C. State at Raleigh.
Thursday, Feb. 11—North Carolina at Chapel

Hill.

Saturday, Feb. 13—College of Charleston at
Davidson.

New Brunswick, N. J.—(1P)—Warning

against absorption in bridge, luncheons, dinner
parties and the petty details of housekeeping,
was issued to 500 alumnae of the New Jersey
College for Women here by Dean Mable S.

Douglass, who addressed them.

“The danger years for a college woman are
those which immediately follow graduation, and
extend ten or fifteen years,” she said. “It is dur-
ing this time that women sink themselves either
in the petty details of their work or in the care
of their homes and children. They fail to real-
ize that to achieve real success either in a home
or in a profession they must not let themselves
deteriorate, but must be intellectually alive and
abreast of the world’s events. Those who marry
think they are best serving their children by
being completely absorbed in them; they are
later to discover that there are better ways to
earn the respect and companionship of their
children.”

not
Mex-

For Mexico the Monroe Doctrine does
exist.—-Salvador Urbina, Justice of the

ican Supreme Court.
: a

Sophs Win Inter-Class

Basketball Tournament

The inter-class basketball tournament which
was begun November 9 was brought to a close
last Friday evening with a very exciting game
between the Sophomores and the Freshmen,
the Sophs winning by the narrow margin of
one point. The Fresh put up a_ stiff fight to
down the Sophs, who were handicapped+by the
Lafferty and McLean, but all too
late. During the last half the Sophs only scored
one point to the Fresh’s seven, but the whistle
came too soon, leaving the Sophs at the big end
of a score of 14 to 13. Holland, then captain
of the Sophomore team, was high scorer of the
game, ringing up eight of the Sophs’ fourteen
points. Winning this game gave the tournament

absence of

to the Sophomores, who. also won the volley
ball tournament.
The same evening another exciting yame took

place between the Juniors and the Seniors. For
the first quarter the held score:
less, but in the last three quarters they ran

up a small score, which nevertheless could not

Seniors were

compare with the score of the steady moving
Juniors. The Seniors, however, stopped
fighting during the whole game, which ended
with them at the little end of the 17 to 9 score.

In another game, on Tuesday of last week,
the Seniors were defeated by the Sophomores.
This time also the Seniors, who were handi-
capped by a scarcity of substitutes, fought till
the last whistle, this

never

but again were downed,

Game Statistics

W. F. Dav]
First downs -------------- 8 8
Yds. gained from scrim.---129 139
Passes attempted --------- 6 11
Passes completed --------- 3 3
Passes intercepted -_------ 2 1
Passes incompleted ------- 2 6
Ydge gained from passes_-189 190
Average length kickoffs... 40 50
Ydge kickoffs returned... 20 32
Punting average --------- 36.3 37.6
Rumbles; SeodsssecuscaSccee 2 0
Fumbles recovered -...---- 1 1
Penalties -.----------- eoranee || 15

time the score being 27 to 10. In the fourth

quarter they made a desperate attempt to even
up the score, but the Sophs, who were running
at their best, already hf@the score well above
their reach.
The teams
for

matched this

season unde-

were fairly well
year none gvent through the
feated and none lost all its games in the
nament. The
gym and were usually refereed by some
ber of the varsity basketball squad. The cap-
tain of the Senior team was Patrick, of the
Junior, Boucher, and. the Fresh and Soph cap-
tains were appointed before each game.

The standings at the end of the tournament

tour-
games were played in the college
mem-

are as follows:

Team Wi ee ROt
Sophomores —~-22 ~~ ----- Sora 833
Juniors —- eG 2 667
WOMNOnSsiesosr toons elecewn ek ecn eee 4 333
BRGSHMGN csesaccssocusceucseoas oreh) 167

Wildkittens to Encounter
_ Tar Babies Next Saturday

Along with the other football teams of this
and other states, the Davidson Wildkittens are
going to do their part for charity when they
meet the Carolina Freshmen in a post-season
game at Hickory next Saturday, This game
will be played at the Lenoir-Rhyne College
field at 2:30 and the to go to
Watts Hospital. *

The Kittens will be without the
two of their star backs and possibly a  thind.
MackKorell, who is still out with a broken leg,
and Wingfield will not be in uniform, It 4s

proceeds are

services of

said, however,
in the Duke game, will be in action before the
game is over. The Kittens also have the dis-
advantage of a ten days’ lay-off. Still, they will
not enter the contest as the under-dog.

The Tar Babys have lost to the
of Wake Forest, Duke and State,
the’ Oak Ridge Cadets, who were defeated by
the Davidson Frosh 18 to 6. Davidson also lost
to the State and Duke Freshmen, but both games

Freshmen
as well as to

were very close.

Coaches Laird and Unger are working their
charges hard and late this week to round them
into shape after their long lay-off. The
opening

squad

looked remarkably good in the prac-

tice Monday afternoon.

Probable line-up for Davidson:

Motganmssstocsne eos eeaee sees Left lend
SIGVELS eine weer estat eae neaes Left Tackle
Rotten ior es See Se sce ee Left Guard
VE Lee ep peeing ep ey ee Center
Bib Ottesece sae Soak eee ae Right Guard
Mande tosses. Seer es ee Right Tackle
IMOLtis 8222223 oe ee eee Right End

NORTON’S
BARBER SHOP

———

We ONLY Ask For
A Trial

It is good to love the unknown—Charles
Lamb.
ir
“DRUGS” “SODA”
Make Our Store Your Store
Students’ Supplies sy
WHITE DRUG CO.,, Inc.
“PRESCRIPTIONS” “SUNDRIES”

that Hutchins, who was injured.

Decathlon Is Now Being
‘Held in Cup Competition

A. group of fifty men answered the call for
the annual Decathlon this from which
keen competition has already arisen. The De-
events from) which

year,

cathlon consists of twelve
each man may select. the ten
best qualified, Anyone may
who chooses to do so, and a cup will be award-
ed to the one who compiles the most points.
Some of the the
men show promise of a good Freshman track
team in the spring. Allowance must be made
for who did not enter the events
who might set still better marks. The
work being done now, however, is more or less
preliminary, for the greatest speed and distances
will be attained in the spring when everyone
will be given another opportunity to try his
ability. The events are run off individually, and
a personal record of each man is kept. A’ spe-

for which -he is
enter the contest

marks made by first-year

also those

have

cific number of points are given for qualifying
in an event, and additional points are given ac-
cording to how far he exceeds the qualifying
mark.

The first event run off was the hundred-yard
dagh, for which the qualifying time is 13 seconds.
McCallie

and Halyburton clipped off the cen-

«
HM uftordaessscscess ee ee wees Quarterback
DSMAICES sees ese ee es es Right Half
Biimpandencts2-s2 sks sews ee sees oe Left Half

CatO is ee Soe ee a as Fullback

Davidson F ootball Team
_ Breaks Even in Number
Of Games Won and Lost

of a defeat at the hands of Wake
Forest Thanksgiving Day, the Davidson:
gridiron representatives were able to do no
better than break even in their 1931 schedule.
Of their ten games the 1 i Won, four, lost

Because
on

four, and tied two for a percentage of .500.

The Wildcats were outscored by their op-
ponents 72 to 54 points. They won three games
by seven-point margins and lpst only one by
a twenty-point margin. Three teams, N. C.
State, V. P. I., and Carolina each scored three
touchdowns against the ’Cats to send them
home in defeat.

In only two games did the Wildcats score
more than one-teychdown. They defeated Elon
in the ‘first game of the season 13-2, and in
their last home game downed the Citadel 14-7.
On the other hands the ‘Cats were held score-
less only four times and two of these games
ended in scoreless ties, Carolina and Wake For-
est being the teams to white-wash the ’Cats
while scoring for themselves.:

The Davidson offense clicked best against
their “opponents in the third quarters. Of their
54 total points, 21 were scored in this period,
14 in the first, 12 in the second, and only seven
in the last period.

_As the offense clicked in the third period so
dil the defense, and the Wildcats held their
opponents scoreless in this period. Their de-
seemed to crack under strain in the fourth
quarter when they allowed a total of 41 op-
ponént points to be scored. Twenty-five points
were scored against them in the initial stanza,
but only six in the second.

fense

Inidividual seoring honors were won by.
Charles Pearce, who scored three touchdowns
for 18 points. Don McQneen and Don King
followed Pearce with 12 points each. McQueen
obtained his total by scoring two touchdowns
while King gathered his by scoring one touch-
down and converting six extra points. Bruce
Peabody and Bill Flinn were the only other
Wildcats to tally, each, getting one touchdown,

Seven’ lettermen who helped carry the 1931
reserveless Wildcat team through a_ difficult
which included six Southern Confer-
ence clevens, will be lost by graduation this
year, Captain Raker, Alternate Captain Mathis,
King, McQueen, Johnson, Conway, and Brown
are the ones who have ended their collegiate

schedule,

gridiron careers.

tury in 10.8 seconds. Gullette and Potter, both
Freshmen, hit 11 seconds.

McCallie also took the 300-yard dash in 34.2
for which the qualifying time is 40
Freshman Glasgow made the good
34.5 seconds.

Secc mids,
seconds.
time of

Rhyne easily excelled in the high jump when
he soared over the bar at 5 ft. 6 in. McCallie
and McGehee each cleared 5 ft. 3 in. Freshmen
Rogers, Dulin and Dupuy all jumped 5 t. 1 in.
The qualifying height was 4 feet.

McCallie and A. G. Little both leaped 19
ft. 6 in. to win the broad jump, with a quali-
fying distance of 15 feet. Freshman Dupuy cov-
18 ft. 10 in. followed by Glasgow with
5 in., and Dulin with 18 ft. 3 in., both

ered
18 ft.
Freshmen.

The shot put has not yet been finished, but
Cochran so far holds the record of 36 ft. 2 in.
Freshman Potter looked good when he put the
in.

shot 31 ft. 11
“E38

4
fa

Davidson Theatre

MONDAY AND TUESDAY

“SURRENDER”
WARNER BAXTER

WEDNESDAY

“WEST OF BROADWAY”
JOHN GILBERT—EL BRENDEL

THURSDAY

*" “HIS WOMAN”
GARY COOPER—CLAUDETTE COLBERT

FRIDAY

“OVER THE HILLS”
JAMES DUNN—SALLY EILERS

SATURDAY

“THE UNHOLY GARDEN”
RONALD COLMAN

