THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 25, 1931

es SSeS —

Members of 1931 Class Are F ollowing
Diversified Vocations in Many States

Alumni Office Has Gathered Data
About Majority of Alumni Who
Finished at Davidson Last
June

BUSINESS LEADS

Ministry and Teaching Next—Class in
16 States and Two Foreign
Countries

Several months have passed since the class
of 1931 graduated from Davidson, and in the
interim between June and today the majority
of them have located positions of business, are
teaching, or doing graduate work in schools of
business, medicine, law, or are doing purely
academic work.

Approximately 20 of the graduates have failed
to notify the alumni office about their present
occupations, and consequently no information
can be given about them. Efforts have been |
made to gather all of the data, and letters of |
inquiry have been sent the graduates on more|
than one occasion, but a few did not respond. |

Of the known vocations of the 1931 graduates, |
25 are in business; 14 are attending seminaries ; |
13 are teaching; 11 are in medical schools; six
are studying: law and five are making further
academic preparation.

It is interesting that the most recent gradu- |
ates are in 16 states and two foreign countries, |
including North and South Carolina, Georgia, |
Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, Texas, Ten-
nessee, Kentucky, Missouri, West Virginia,
Virginia, Pennsylvania, New York, Connecti-
cut, and Massachusetts. The two foreign coun- |
tries are Egypt and England.

Union. Theological Seminary obtained the
majority of those sturying for the ministry, |
with 12 out of the 14. Students there are |
W. P. Boyle, L. F. Cowan, S. W. DuBose, |
E. K. Eumurian, Jas. A. Jones, A. B. McClure, |
W. B. McSwain, M. W. Norfleet, Jr., R. D._|
Russell, W. G. Sugg, Jr., Earl F. Thompson, |
and Ferguson Wood. Chas. E. Kramer and J. |
S. Meacham went to Louisville Presbyterian
Seminary.

W. A. Mason, H. S. Munroe, Jr., and—John
F, Preston are studying medicine at Duke
University, while James Watt went to the Uni-
versity of North Carolina Medical School, A.
R. Jackson and C. H. Goodykoontz are at-|
tending medical school, at the University of
Pennsylvania, and Frank L. Wilson is in Phila-

medical schools are A. D. Bethea, at Tulane ; | rival from Chunju, Korea, where he had all

Albert W. Cowan, at Harvard, and B. M. |
Drake at Vanderbilt. W. S. Gershovitz delayed
his entrance to medical school a year.

Five 1931 graduates are studying law at five |
different institutions. J. A. Cannon, Jr., is at}
the University of North Carolina; G. W.
George, at Emory; W. M. Hunter at a New
York institution; W. A. Rembert, Jr., at the
University of Texas, and Chas. A. Sisson, at
Harvard.

Those who are doing purely academic work
are H.-F. Bost, obtaining a master of arts de-
gree at Davidson; Kenneth M, Jackson and
J. C. Matthews, ‘studying history at Vander-
bilt and the University of Virginia, respective-
ly; Frank Pilcher, Jr., at the University of
North Carolina, and Dean Rusk, at Oxford,
England. 3

J. K. Pepper, Jr., is the only 1931 graduate |
in a business school. He is at Harvard.

Among the teachers, D. G. Caldwell and
R. W. McCullough are both instructors at Da-
vidson in the departments of physics and chem-
istry, respectively. H. S. Covington is at Wood-
berry Forest; Walter W. Fraley, at Shenan-
doah Valley Academy, Winchester, Va.; J..R.
Caldwell, Jr., at Chamberlain-Hunt Military

|

@) ( O plete Sen Vice
forS }) «| Polly alions

)

Academy, Port Gibson, Miss.; J. W. McCutchan
at Assiut College, Assiut, Egypt; A. H. Shep-
ard, Jr., at Martha Berry School, Mt. Berry,
Jr.; J. A. Ward at Webb School, Bell Buckle,
Tenn.; W. E. McAlpine, at Union, S. C.; Joe
D. McCall, Gastonia; H. M. Moffett, Jr., at
Elise High School, Hemp; Norman W. Raies,
at Pax, W. Va., and W. Clay Thompson, at
Glade Valley.

Of the above, those assisting in athletic
coaching and direction are Covington, Fraley,
Shepard, Ward, McAlpine, McCall, Moffett,
and Thompson.

P. R. Alderman, Jr., is with D. W. Alderman
& Sons, lumber dealers, at Alcolu, S. C.; A.
R. Bird, Jr., Wachovia Bank & Trust Co.,
Winston-Salem; Thad Brock, Glasgow-Stewart
Co., Charlotte; L. H. Corbett, with H. M. Cor-
bett & Son, merchants, Atkinson; J. Linwood
Hall, shoe salesman with his father, with head-
quarters at Burlington; W. B. Hancock, with
the Equitable Life Assurance Society, at Rock
Hill, S. C.; J. H. Henderlite, Jr, in a dye
plant at Gastonia; R. M. King, Virginia Dare
Co., in New York; J. G. Knox, in a bank at
Statesville; Dan S. LaFar, with Boysell Com-
pany, rug manufacturers, at Gastonia; Hugh
A. McAlister, with the Jefferson Standard Life
Insurance Co., at Lumberton; D. F. Murphy

in the fire insurance business and a night stu-|_

dent at Benton Law School in St. Louis, Mo.;
F. M. Pridgen, Jr., with the Equitable Life
Assurance Society, recently transferred from
Detroit, Mich., to Rocky Mount; T. S. Neal,
Jr., with the American Tobacco Co., Reids-
ville; W. C. Ragin, Jr., a chemist with othe
Dow Chemical Company, at Wilmington.

Others in business, the exact nature of which
is unknown, include W. A. Armfield, W. W.
Beattie, J. G. Berry, C, N. Burch, III, Geo.
McClenaghan, Archie W. McLean, Van Middle-
ton, Chas, T. Parker, J. L, Severance, and
R. G, Wilson.

Supplementary information about the 1931
graduates will be published from time to time
as it is received in the alumni office.

Alumni Death

Rev. Paul P. Winn, ’69

|

DUKE SHINE BOY
LIKES WILDCATS

DURHAM, N. C., Nov. 16—“Coach
Ralph,” Duke’s ebony-hued shine boy,
likes the Davidson Wildcats.

He gives shoe shines in various de-
grees, such as “two-bit special,” “four-
bit special,” or “dollar special.”

Last week he came out with a new
one: “Davidson Special.” Asked the
reason for the name, he replied, “Al-
ways good.”

as a missionary. He was 86 years old at the
time of his death,

After graduating from Davidson, Mr. Winn
returned here as a teacher between 1871 and
1874, and in 1872 was awarded his master of
arts degree. Finishing his seminary course he
was pastor at Lenoir and Concord, and was both
a pastor and teacher at Clayton, Ala., for many
years. Mr. Winn was one of the founders of
‘the West Asheville Presbyterian Church in
Asheville some years ago, while living at Mon-
treat. He was doing missionary work and re-
siding with his son and daughter, and was en
route :to visit relatives in this section at the
time of his death.

Among his survivors are two sons who are
Davidson alumni, James A. Winn, 1900, : of

Greenville, S. C., and E. L. Winn, ’08, of
Asheville.
Alumni Marriages |
Carroll-Lawton

Neill Louis Carrol, 1927 alumnus*of David-
son, and Miss Mary Elizabeth Lawton, both of
Columbia, S. C., were married in the Trinity
Episcopal Church at Columbia on November 7.
Walter W. Gregg, ’27, of Bennettsville, S, C.,
was an usher, and Caldwell F. Witltefs,’28, of
Columbia, was one of the groomsmen.

After leaving Davidson, Mr. Carroll, who
was originally from York, .S. C., graduated
.from the University of South Carolina. He is
connected with the State Company in Colum-

) bia. Mrs. Carroll attended St. Mary’s School

at Raleigh and the University of South Caro-

lina,
|

Houck-Cramer
Information has just been received in Dayid-

Rev. Paul Patterson Winn, an 1869 gradu-|son of the marriage of Rev. George F. Houck,
ate of Davidson and one of the oldest living | Jr., of Mill Gap, Va., to Miss Vienne Cramer,
alumni of the institution, died in Pasadena, | of Louisville, Ky., the marriage taking place
delphia at Jefferson Medical School. Others in| ©@lif, on November 18, shortly after his ar- |

\

on August 26. Mr. Houck graduated from Da-

Hh

“DRUGS”

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

Make Our Store Your Store
Students’ Supplies

WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.

(Continued on page 7)

“SODA”

“SUNDRIES”

Q
K

ta

Davidson Theatre

: MONDAY

“THE GUARDSMAN”
ALFRED LUNT

TUESDAY

“ARE THESE OUR CHILDREN?”

WEDNESDAY

“POSSESSED”
JOAN CRAWFORD—CLARK GABLE

THURSDAY
“SUICIDE FLEET”

FRIDAY AND SATURDAY

“AMBASSADOR BILL”
WILL ROGERS

Dk

ALUMNI PERSONALS

Alumni visitors to Davidson during the past
week included Rev. H. A. Knox, ’03, Liberty,
S. C.; Rev. R. §. Arrowood, ’13, Concord; B.
O. Clark, ’21, Salisbury; Walter H. Lynch,
Jr., ’26, Statesville, and David G. Wilson, ’26,
Greensboro.

Friends will regret to dearn of the deaths of
the father of W. G. Guille, ’23, of Salisbury,
and a brother of Prof. Ernest A. Beaty, ’21,
of Davidson.

When the section, composed of North and
South Carolina and Virginia, of the American
College of Surgeons meets in Greensboro. on
January 28-29, two Davidson alumni will be
attending the executive committee of that body.
Dr. Archibald E, Baker, '16, of Charleston,
S. C., is chairman of the executive committee
of the section in South Carolina, and Dr. Rob-
ert E. Abell, ’08, of Chester, S. C., is. asso-
ciated with him on the committee.

James H. Carson, ’16, of Charlotte, has been
elected president of the Kiwanis Club in that
city.

J. Allen Wilson, ’30, is now associated with
the advertising department of Radio Station
WBIG, in Greensboro.

Dr. W. H. Sprunt, Jr., 14, of Winston-Sa-
lem, recently attended a two weeks’ post-gradu-

| Engagement

Barnett-Kennedy

“Mr. and Mrs, A. G. Barnett, of Decatur,
Ga., announce the engagement of their daugh-
ter, Alice Evolyn, to Herman Charles Ken-
nedy, of Davidson, the wedding to take place
the latter part of December.”

Before coming to Davidson,- Mr. Kennedy
received his bachelor of arts degree from Tus-
culum College in 1929, and took post-graduate
work here in 1930, and later at the University
of North Carolina. At present he is connected
with the Blue Diamond Coal Company, of At-
lanta, Ga. Miss Barnett received her education
at Agnes Scott.

ate course in surgery at the Massachusetts Gen-
etal Hospital, in Boston.

Col. E. L. Gilmer, ’86, has been re-elected
chairman of the Christmas: Cheer Committee
in Greensboro. :

The famous run of Thad Brock, ’29, for 108
yards against Duke University on Thanks-
giving, 1929, recently appeared on a full col-
ored page of unusual events, the feat being
recorded by John Hix in his cartoon, “Strange
As It Seems.”

Friends will regret to learn that Rev. Coyte
Hunter, '20, of Bessemer City, is undergoing
treatment at the United States Veterans Hos-
pital in Memphis, Tenn., and that Sam R,
Coker, ’30, of Hartsville, S. C., is in Johns
Hopkins Hospital at Baltimore.

Tribute will be ‘paid to the late Dr. D. M.
Douglas, ’95, president of the University of
South Carolina until his death, at a memorial
service to be held at the University chapel at
Columbia, S. C., on November 24th.

James T. Maddrey, ’19, has been made cash-
ier of the Raleigh branch of the Morris Plan
Bank, Mr. Maddrey was at one time connected
with the main office at Winston-Salem, but for
the past year he has been vice-president of the
Asheville branch.

Dates have been set for two weddings of
Davidson alumni. Richard H. MacMillan, ’24,
of Atlanta, Ga., and Miss Margaret Wooten,

(Continued on page 7)

SCARLET TANAGER

Sodas — Tobaccos — Sundries

OPEN ALL THANKSGIVING
NIGHT

Phone 9143

Nationally Known

Stetson “D” Store

. . SPECIAL...

FOR 10 DAYS ONLY

Camel Pile Coats - $37.50

and Justly Famous

HANES Gold Label Elastic
for the changeable weather of

For

Men and Boys

SAMOA

Z
=
=
=
=
=

>=
=

HANES IS “MASCULINE”
FOR “UNDERWEAR”

Specialists in male comfort determine the st
place every seam in HANES. Soft, long-weari
ing! Over 25 years of manufacturing experience!
combine to make the greatest underwear values yo

-knit Light-weight Union Suits are excellent

autumn and i H .
for men who work indoors. Luxurious in tei eeen fey ee

If you wear summer-weights the
athletic union suits and shirts and sh

HANES UNDERWEAR

oS

yles and measurements, and
ing materials! Expert tailor-
HANES low prices! All

u’ve ever seen.

year through, be sure to see how

orts are made better by HANES.

: For
Every Season
