THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 25, 1931

Mr. Joe Johnston, Head
Of Barium Springs, Is
Vesper Service Speaker
“Religion Can’t Be Put Aside During

Week Like Sunday Clothes,”
Speaker Asserts

W. H. MATTHEWS PRESIDES

Jake Mackorell and Moffett McConnell
Offer Short Prayers

“You can’t have religion and put it away |
like you do Sunday clothes,” Mr. Joe B.
Johnston, superintendént of Barium Springs |
Orphanage, told Davidson students last Sun- |
day at vespers in Chambers Auditorium. |

He reviewed Deborah’s victory song, men-
tioning the tribes that responded. Some of
the tribes were indifferent. He maintained
that prayer did not require the person to
dress up before he begins to pray. He said
that people ought to approach God with all |
reverence,

An old negro man is responsible for the |
deepest religious experience Dr. Johnston
ever had. The pipe in the orphanage well |
was lost in the well and if it couldn't be!
found they would have an ice famine. This |
negro man said we would fish for it if he
were given some help. One morning several |
of them gathered at the well as the sun was |
coming up in an effort to find the pipe. |
While standing there the negro suggested
they have a word of prayer. Mr. Johnston
said after that he was confident they would
find the lost pipe.

Continuing he asked his audience if they
were willing to trust God in little things?
The Bible is full of proof that God stands
by his people in little matters. Aren’t the
sparrows cared for and the hairs of people’s
heads. numbered?

God lets sunshine on the desert so that
people over the world can enjoy it. He also
allows rain to fall in the ocean that people
everywhere can benefit. A God that does
this is ready to hear the prayers his people
offer. He said religious services should do
more than stir the heart,

Mr. Johnston told about a man who be-
came religious at every revival and his reli-
gion never lasted over twenty-four hours,
He was an emotional drunkard and did not
see the importance of applying the principles
he heard to his everyday life. The right kind
of religion is an experience that becomes a
part of a person. It is not something that
can be lain aside at the approach of sin,

Bill H. Matthews led the service and call-
ed on Moffatt McConnell and Jake Mackor-
ell for prayers. Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman dis-
missed the assemblage.

Aptitude Test Will Be
Given to Med. Students

Test to Be Given in Chambers, Room
124, on Dec. 11

Last year, on December 11th, at 3 p. m,
was given, for the first time, the Pre-Medi-
cal Students Aptitude Test. This test was
issued by the American Association of Med-
ical College, to be given to all students in-
tending to enter medical colléges the follow-
ing fall. Medical Colleges are not restricted
as to their number of entrants, and so this
test was made compulsory for such students.
Davidson College is unconnected, other than
through actually giving, with the test. The
Papers are sent to the Association, which
corrects them and forwards them to the col-
leges to which the candidates intend to ap-
ply, and the results are not disclosed until
entrance at these colleges.
year only fourteen have so far applied, al-

Last year twenty men took the test; this
though Mr. F. W. Hengeveld stated that if
more than twenty students apply, he would
be unable to accommodate them all, since
more papers are unavailable.

This year the test will be given in Cham-
bers, Room 124, on December 11th, at 3 p. m.
This is the only time this year the test will
be given; and all those pre-medical students
who intend entering a Medical College in
the Fall of 1932 must take it. There is a
charge of one dollar to cover expenses of
printing, etc.

Dr. Henderlite Will _
Be Vesper Speaker

Dr. J. H. Henderlite, of the First Presby-
terian Church of Gastonia, will be the speak-
Jer, for the “Y” services that will be held in
Chambers Auditorium this coming Sunday
at six o'clock. Dr. Henderlite has spoken to
the Davidson student body regularly for the
past several years, and has proved himself
a Yery interesting speaker.

This tall, witty white-haired speaker at-
tracts his audience merely with his appear-
ance, to say nothing of his supreme ability
of public speaking. Dr. Henderlite is a
great backer of Davidson, and he had a son

©1931, Liccetr & Myers Tosacco Co,

oy

WHY

do more and more

smokers say:

BECAUSE ...

as pure as the water you drink!

Chesterfield. They Satisfy!

THEYRE MILDER. It’s the ¢obaccosd- The mildest that
money can buy. Ripened and sweetened in the
sunshine ... cured by the farmer... then aged
for two years in wooden hogsheads.

THEY TASTE BETTER. These tobaccos are put to-
gether right. Rich aroma of Turkish and mellow

sweetness of Domestic, blended and cross-blended
to Chesterfield’s own BETTER TASTE.

THEY'RE PURE. Everything that goes into Chesterfield
is tested by expert chemists. The purest cigarette
paper made, tasteless, odorless. Sanitary manufac-
ture... no hands touch your Chesterfields. They’re

THEY SATISFY. You break open a clean, tight-sealed
package. You light up a well-filled cigarette. Yes,
sir... you're going to like this cigarette! And
right there is where many a smoker changes to

that finished here last year. His messages
contain an element that appeals to anyone
who enjoys attending these services.

“Y” DOING VITAL WORK

(Continued from page 1)
who are not conscious of the individual religious
activity of a large percentage of our men. It is
a great temptation when one comes to college
to make no effort to engage in religious activi-
ties. The inclination is all the more dangerous
because of stimulated*intéllectual inquiry on the
part of the student. If one is not living his
normal Christian life and his thinking is more
intense, it is natural that an unbalanced atti-
tude is likely to result. The average college
man thinks of a “greasy grind’ with some-
thing akin to contempt because he is not de-
veloping the “full man.” He is developing his
mind with little or no concern for his other
powers. Likewise, the man of brute strength
and dull intellect will command little respect
on a college campus. Even ‘so, it should be
equally true that an intellectual religion should
command little respect unless it is accompanied
by an active religion. A man’s religious attitude
should not only be voiced in his conversation,
but in his actions, Intellectual convictions are
a part of religion and not religion itself; Re-
ligious experience and not a “mental system”
is the backbone of religion. We are constantly
changing our mental attitudes. In the light of
fresh knowledge we cast aside some of our

‘once cherished beliefs. Our experience cannot

be cast aside. It is the most real part of our
religious life.

If our object be a triumphant Christian life
it follows that our intellectual religious progress
should be accompanied by an experience of
equal depth and reality. It behooves us there-
fore to be alert to the opportunities for serv-
ice which daily clamor at the door of our
hearts.

I. R. C. GIVES BIDS

(Continued from page 1)
Cercle Francais, the Glee Club, Concert Orches-
tra, Voulnteer Group, the South Carolina Club,
and Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity.

James Gray Dunklin is a member of Sigma
Alpha Epsilon social fraternity and is assistant
manager of basketball.

Robert Glasgow, Jr., is a member of Phi
Delta Theta social fraternity, Junior basketball
manager, secretary and treasurer of Junior class,
and prominent jin track in his Freshman year.

Joseph William Lee is a Sigma Phi Epsilon
and was Sophomore football manager last year.

George Anderson Little is a member of Pi
Kappa Alpha social fraternity and has taken
interest in inter-class athletics.

William Robert Morrow is a member’ of
Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, subscription
manager of Davidsonian, and on the Freshman
tennis team his first year. \

Leland McKeithen is on “Quips and Cranks”
editorial staff, Glee Club and Sigma Upsilon.

Arthur Ross is a member of Sigma Alpha

Epsilon social fraternity and is a Junior man-
ager of football.

DAVIDSON DRAMATIC CLUB

(Continued from page 1)
Club, J. G. Marvin was elected manager and
E. A. Hancock, secretary-treasurer.

OTHER PLAYS ANNOUNCED

If it is possible to do so before Christmas,
the Masquers will present the Little Theatre
of Charlotte in the very popular one-act drama,
“The Valiant.” Other plays in consideration to
fill the remainder of the bill for the evening
are “A Christmas Chime” and “Flat Lux,” also
a Christmas story. Decemher 21, the night be-
fore Christmas vacation, is being considered for
this program.

WILDCATS PRIMED

(Continued from pgae 1)
acy, and the ’Cats trying to break the jinx of
a decade. é
The all-time records are as follows:

1908 Wake Forest 4__-----__--- Davidson 31
1910 Wake Forest 0___--____ ---Davidson 32
1912 Wake Forest 7 -..--------- Davidson 13
1913 Wake Forest 0_--.--___-_- Davidson 6
1914 Wake Forest 6 ----------_ Davidson 7
1915 Wake Forest 7 .-----.£---_Davidson 21
1917 Wake Forest 7___--___-___ Davidson 72

1919 Wake Forest 0__-----_____ Davidson 21
MYZ0 Wake Horest: 722--essc eons Davidson 27
1921 Wake Forest 10_------_____ Davidson 7
1922 Wake Forest 6_---.--.--.. Davidson 6
1923 Wake Forest 6 _------.--_- Davidson 0
4925 Wakei Forest 7222-22222. 2. Davidson 7
1926 Wake Forest 3 ----2-__-___ Davidson 3
1927, Wake Forest 13.-..-.-_____ Davidson 13
1928 Wake Forest 25_.___--______ Davidson 6
1929 Wake Forest 6 -------_____ Davidson 0
1930 Wake Forest 13......--____ Davidson 2

Totals: Wake Forest 127; Davidson 274,

“LEADERSHIP IN PRAYER”

.

(Continued from page 5)

Pri petition means to forgive me for the
things that I owe to Thee, meaning God;
these are the things that we have left un-
done. Dr. Miles referred to Ibsen’s Peer
Gynt, in which the hero felt things brush-
ing about his feet and hanging, onto him.
When he asked what these were, he was
told that they were the things “he had left
undone, the kind words he had failed to
speak, and good deeds he had failed to do.
These debts are sins of omission, and we
are more condemned for these than for
things we do that are wrong.

The service was closed by repeating the
Lord’s prayer,-and then the benediction by
Dr. Miles.
