THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 16, 1931

Unique Mathematical

In 1857 By Davidson Professor

Major Daniel Harvey Hill Drew Upon
His Varied Experiences and Broad
Knowledge to Make Book Inter-
esting to Students

ODD PROBLEMS

Examples to Be Solved Are Based on
Historical, Political and Economic
Facts of the Times

Back in the ante-bellum days, between the
years 1853-1858, 4 be exact, there was a young
and brilliant professor at Davidson College,
who not only carved a niche in the hall of fame
for himself, but who, through his son, Daniel
Harvey Hill, Jr., gave to Davidson and to

North Carolina one who “carried on” after
his father’s death, rising to great heights in
the educational world. ~

It is not about the son, however, that this
article is being written, but about the young
man who was the professor of mathematics, nat-
ural philosophy and civil engineering at David-
son. He was only 36 years of age when he
gazed with pride, it can well be imagined, upon
a volume that was the product of his pen, and
which today can be considered unique in its
content.

The book was known as the “Elements of
Algebra,” but to those who are acquainted with
the preliminary “elements” of that science today,
its more than 500 pages seem a maze of intri-
cate combinations and analytical study. Few
freshmen could make a passing grade, it is be-
lieved, upon the “elements of algebra” as he
set them forth in this volume.

The professor, Daniel Harvey Hill, was the
grandson of two Revolutionary soldiers, and had
spent a life wholly governed by military tradi-
tion and custom. He had graduated from the
United States Military Academy at West Point
in 1842, He served in the Mexican war, and for
gallantry he was promoted from second lieu-
tenant to first, then to a captaincy and
time later was made a major.

Major Hill retired from the army to become
a professor of mathematics at Washington Col-
lege (now Washington and Lee), and Six years
later he came to Davidson. Major Hill was su-
perintendent of the North Carolina Military
College in Charlotte after leaving Davidson,
and then followed an active period of service
in the War Between the States, At its conclu-
sion he served as an editor for four years, and
in 1877 he was made president of the State
University of Arkansas. Several years later he
became president of the Middle Georgia Mili-
tary and Agricultural College, and died in Char-
lotte in 1889. He is buried in the cemetery at
Davidson.

History tells of his gallant actions on fields
of battle. But better than any historian’s words,
this book, that smight well have been the ‘usual
dry-as-dust mathematician’s volume, discloses
illuminating traits of the man’s character. It
may have been that his mind was filled con-
stantly with matters of political or military ac-
tivity, or it may have been that he was mak-
ing an effort to avoid the usual and tiresome
phraseology to be found in any such works; at
any, rate, the young professor produced a vol-
ume that may be read today for its interesting
collection of historical facts, and for its revela-
tion of the thoughts that occupied this man
who now is recognized .as one of the South’s
most interesting figures.

Military Problems

Tt is more than interesting to meet problems
like the following when this volume is opened:

“A colonel wishes to divide his regiment of
800 men, and 10 companies, in such a manner
that the two flank companies shall contain each
one-third more men than each of the central
companies. What must be the number of men
in jeach flank company, and in each central
company ?”

“How many changes can be made in every
file! of two men in a squad of 20 men, so that
the! files shall differ by at least one man?”

“The governor of a besieged town has pro-
visions enough to allow each of the garrison
1%) pounds of bread per day for 60 days; but,
athe learns that succor cannot be expected for
80 days, he finds it necessary to diminish the
allowance. What must the allowance be?”

it will be remembered that Major Hill had
served in the Mexican war, and he evidently
stoted away those things that he saw for future

a short

Book Written

use. Here’s one that he might have calculated
while standing outside a cathedral in Mexico.

“The railing around the altar of the cathedral
in the City of Mexico is a composition of gold
and silver. Assuming that 279 pounds of the
composition loses 20 ounces when immersed
in water, and that 19% pounds of gold lose one
pound in water, and 10% pounds of silver lost
one pound in water. Required, what proportion
of gold and silver in the alloy ?”

“At the beginning of the Mexican war, the
proprietor of the DuPont Mills wished to work
up the materials of his powder for hunting and
mining, and make war powder out of it. He
removed the sulphur by sublimation, and then
wished to ascertain what proportion to take of
the remaining charcoal and nitrates in the two
specimens. What proportion ought he to have
taken?”

Here’s a Tough One

“The field of battle at Buena Vista is 6%
miles from Saltillo. Two Indiana volunteers ran
away from the field of battle at the same time;
one ran half a mile per hour faster than the
other and reached Saltillo five minutes and
54 6-11 sooner than the other. Re-
quired their respective rates of travel.”

Tt will be remembered that 1857 was not long
after the gold rushes in California, and this
remembrance of Major Hill probably prompted
this one:

“A California gold digger wishes to sell a
vessel full of gold mixed with sand. The ves-
sel, when filled with gold, will weigh ten
pounds, and when filled with sand, one pound;
the mixture weighs seven pounds. How much
gold is in it?”

He remembered his college days in offering
these two:

“Tn a square floor of a college building there
is a certain number of brick; if one more brick
is added to each side of the floor, and the square
form be preserved, there. will be 61 more brick
than at first. How many brick does the floor
contain ?” ‘

“A freshman

seconds

recited five times a week in
mathematics, and his average for the week was
66. His average for the first three days was
to the average for the last two as 7 to 6 What
were those averages ?”

Historical Problems

Major Hill's mind, was packed with a vast
store of historical, political and economic facts,
upon which he drew to make the tenor of his
book even more novel. From such history and
its outgrowths, he presents the following prob-
lems :

“In the year 1692, the people of Massachusetts
executed, imprisoned or privately persecuted 469
persons, of both sexes, and all ages, for the
alleged crime of witchcraft. Of these, twice as
many were privately persecuted as were im-
prisoned, and 7 17-19 times as many more were
imprisoned than were executed. Required, the
number of sufferers of each kind.”

“The year in which Decatur published his
official letter from New London, stating that
the traitors of New England burned blue lights
on both points of the harbor to give notice to
the British of his attempt to go to sea, is ex-
pressed by four digits. The’ sum of the first
and fourth is equal to half the second; the
first and third are equal to each other; the
sum of the first and second Ys equal to three
times the fourth, and the product of the first
and second is equal to eight. Required, the
year.”

Signally Honored

ALUMNI PERSONALS

PROF. M. G.S. NOBLE.

~—Courtesy of the Raleigh News and Observer

Dr. M. C. S. Noble, above, 1879 alumnus
of Davidson, who was awarded the May-
flower Society Cup recently for the best
book written by a North Carolinian during
the past year. His book was “A History of
the Public Schools of North°Carolina.”

Births

1917—Mr. and Mrs, J. P. MeNeill, Jr., of
Florence, S. C., announce the birth of
a son, Artemas November
20th.

1921—Mr. and Mrs. Ernest H. Brown, of Ivan-

hoe, announce the birth of a son, Ernest

Hyde, Jr., on October Ist.

Mr. and Mrs. D. K. Miller, of Cleveland,

announce the birth of a son, David Ken-

neth, Jr., on December 10th.

Legare, on

1930-

received some consideration, as shown by the
problem at the Woman's Rights Convention as
follows :

“At the Woman’s Rights Convention, held at
Syracuse, N. Y., composed of 150 delegates, the
old maids, childless wives and the bedlamites
were to each other
and three,

as the numbers five, seven
How many were there of each
class?”

“The year in which the Governors of Massa-
chusetts and Connecticut sent treasonable mes-
sages to their respective Legislatures, is ex-
pressed by four digits. The square root of the
sum of the first and second is equal to three;
the square root of the product of the second
and fourth is equal to four; the first is equal to
the third, and is one-half of the fourth. Re-
quired, the year.”

“Some of the New England States were fully,
and some partially, represented in the Hart-
ford convention, which, in the year 1814, gave
aid and comfort to the British. during the prog-
ress of the war. If four be added to the num-
ber of states fully and partially represented.
and the, square root of the sum be taken, the
result will be the number of states fully repre-
sented; but if 11 be added to the sam of the
states fully and partially represented, and the
square root of the sum be taken, the r=sult will
be equal to the square root of eight times the
number of states partially represented. Required,
the number of states fully and ‘partially repre-
sented.”

Woman's suffrage, even in those early days,

Etc.
Nothing too large

/lege
Printing
6,600 Square Feet of

Magazines, Catalogs, Programs, Newspapers, Bulletins, Handbooks,
) Engraved Cards and Invitations,

P. M. CONWAY, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE

or small for our plant—Let us serve you.

Floor Space Devoted Exclusively to Printing

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

s

Alumni visitors at Davidson recently included
Rev. R. K. Timmons, D.D., ’04, of Columbia,
S. C., here at the installation of the Spanish
fraternity; I. P. Graham, '08, Cooleemee; Dr.
Oren Moore, '08, Charlotte, and Lawrence H.
Wilkinson, ’14, of Charlotte, here for the Ath-
letic Council meeting Monday, and D. C. Hun-
ter, '30, Belmont.

Rev. W. P. Mills, ’03, who has been doing
Y. M. C. A. work in Hangchow, China, is now
studying at Columbia University in New York,
and will later be at Union Theological Sem-
inary. He is at 419 W. 12st St., New York
City.

Dr. Julian P. Price, ’22, of Florence, S. C.,
has just published a book, “The Young Doctor
Thinks Out Loud.” The ‘book is an answer
to the questions, “What do young doctors think
of their profession? Why do they choose this
career in the first place? In what way do they
react to their instruction and. their instructors
in medical school? What do they think of their
training in hospitals?” The publishers, in mak-
ing their announcement of the book, said, “All

Indian Slaughter

“In the year 1637, all the Pequod Indians
that survived the slaughter on the Mystic River
were either banished from Connecticut, or sold
into slavery. The square root of twice the num-
ber of survivors is equal to one-tenth that num-
ber. What was the number ?”
“In the year 1853, a number of persons in
New England and New York were sent to
lunatic asylums in consequence of the Spirit-
ual Rapping delusion. If 14 be added to the
number of those who became insane, and the
square root of the sum be taken, the root will
be less than the number 42. Required, the num-
ber of victims.”
“The year in which the translation began of
what is called King James’ Bible is expressed
by four digits. The product of the first, second
and fourth is 42; the fourth is one greater than
the second, and the sum and difference of the
first and third are both equal to one. Required,
the year.”

South Carolina Problems
“In the year 1706 the French made a descent
upon Charleston; but, ‘South Carolina,’ says
Bancroft, ‘gloriously defended her territory,
and, with very little loss, repelled the invaders.’
A certain number of French were killed and
wounded, and 100 were taken prisoners. The
number killed and wounded was to the number
of uninjured, including the prisoners, as one
to three. And the square of the number that
escaped in safety from the expedition was to
the square of the number killed and wounded.
Required, the number killed and wounded, and
the number in the expedition.”
“In the year 1842, South Carolina converted
The Citadel at Charleston, and the magazine
at Columbia, into military academies, which
were to be supported by the sum of money ap-
propriated annually previous to this time to a
guard of soldiers. The interest upon this sum
for 21 months amounted to $1,960, and the
square of the interest for six months exceeded
(Continued on page 6)

For

Men and Boys

ing! Over 25 years of manufacturing experience! HANES low prices! All
combine to make the greatest underwear values you've ever seen.

HANES Gold Label Elastic-knit Light-weight Union Suits are excellent
for the changeable weather of autumn and spring—ideal winter garments
for men who work indoors. Luxurious in materials and finish. Low in price.

If you wear summer-weights the year through, be sure to see how
athletic union suits _and shirts and shorts are made better by HANES.

HANES UNDERWEAR

SILI

of these topics are here discussed by a young
doctor with a gift for expression, who sees
medicine as both a science and an art.”

J. B. Black, Jr., 31, is teaching English, his-
tory and the theory of athletics at the Episco-
pal High School at Alexandria, Va.

Friends will regret to hear of the death of
Mrs. J. M. Rose, mother of Dr. W. C. Rose,
‘07, professor of chemistry at the University of
Illinois, Chicago, Ills.

J. Max Hendrix, 714, has been made com-
mander of the Greensboro Post of the Ameri-
can Legion.

J. H. McKeithen, ’22, of Winston-Salem, is a
member of one of the committees of the Na-
tional Junior Chamber of Commerce.

Knox Poole, ’28, student at Union Theolog-
ical Seminary, Richmond, Va., has been elected
secretary of the Junior class there.

Dr. T. E. Winecoff, ’90, member of the
Pennsylvania Game “Commission, recently had
an article published in the magazine, “Ameri-
can Game,” on the deer situation in that state.

Associated with Dr. D, Heath-Nisbet, '13, on
the Y. M. C. A. examining eémmittee in Char-
lotte, are Dr. R. H. Lafferty, 99, and Dr. Thos.
D. Sparrow, ‘16.

Dr. R. G. Tuttle, ’09, of Winston-Salem, is
now in Baltimore, where he is spending ten
days in special study.

Chas. A. Cannon, 715, has been re-elected
first vice-president of the North Carolina Cot-
ton Manufacturers Association. A. M. Fairley,
86, of Laurinburg, was re-elected as second
vice-president, and Harvey W. Moore, ’05, of
Charlotte, was named to serve on the board of
directors of the organization when it met re-
cently in mid-winter session at Pinehurst.

Rev. J. N. McCord, ’04, who had been in
Greenwood, S. C., has accepted a pastorate at
Choudrant, La.

Glenn, A. Price, ’29, has been transferred by
the Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph
Company from Henderson, Ky., to Owensboro,
Kentucky.

The date of the wedding of W. A. Armfield,
31, has been announced for December 30th,
when he will be married in the First Presby-
terian Church at Winston-Salem to Miss Lucy
Reynolds Follin.

Dr. J. A. Shaw, 19, of Fayetteville, has been
named president-elect of the Cumberland Coun-
ty Medical Society for the year 1933.

Dr. J. E. Mills, 96, member of the faculty
at the University of South Carolina, Columbia,
was one of the speakers last Saturday when
the South Carolina Piedmont section. of the
American Chemical Society met at Presbyterian
College, at Clinton.

De eee Ts

HANES IS “MASCULINE”
FOR “UNDERWEAR”

Specialists in male comfort determine the styles and measurements, and
place every seam in HANES. Soft, long-wearing materials! Expert tailor-

