THE DAVEDSONIAN, APRIL 16, 1931

New Library Books

The following is a list of the new books
recently placed in the college library:

1.
Hergesheimer,.

2. The Commerce of Nations, by C. F.
Bastable.

y

+

3. Essentials of Linoleum Block Printing,
by Polk.

4. The Gentlest Art, by E. V. Lucas.

-5. The Jungle, by Upton Sinclair.

6. The Magic Mountain, by Thomas
Mann. ~~

7. Sketches and Studies» in Ttaly and
Greece, by John Addington Symonds.

8. Sex and Youth, by Sherwood Eddy.

9. Alarms and Discursions, by G. K. Ches-
terton.

10. An Introduction to the History of Re-
ligion, by Frank Bryon Jevons.

11. The Life of Charles Lamb, by E. V.
Lucas,

12. All Things Considered, by G. K. Ches-
terton.

13. The Van Eycks and Their Followers,
by Sir Martin Conway.

14. Local Government and Local Taxation
in England and Wales, by Wright and Hob-
house.

15. Religious Art in F¥ance of the Thir-
teenth Century, by Emile. Male.

16. The Modern Woodcut, by Herbert
Furst.

17... The Gospel in Art, by Albert Edward
Bailey.

18. \The Fundamental Principles of Taxa- |
tion, by Sir Josiah Stamp.

19. Recent Economic Changes in the|
United States, the Report of the President's
Conference Committee.

20. George Washington, by Ru pert!
Hughes. |

21. Religious Values, by Edgar Sheffield |
Brightman,

22. Two Lives, by William Ellery Leon- |
ard. |

23. The Winning of the Far West, hy |
Robert McNutt McElroy. |

24. White Jacket, by Herman Merville. |

25. The Castle of Otranto, by Horace
Walpole.

26. Field Book of American Wild Flow-
ers, by F. Schuyler Mathews.

27. The Annals of a Parish, by John Galt.

28. William Oughtred, by Florian Cajori.

29. Track and Field, by T. E. Jones. |

30. The Roman Festivals, by W. Warde |
Fowler.

31. Dynamic Psychology, by Dom Thomas
Verner Moorg,,

32. John Galsworthy, The Grove Edition. |

33. The Grub Street, by George Gissing. |

34, Composition, by Arthur W. Dow.

|
|
|
|

Davidson Library Is
Being Rearranged

Space is Being Provided for Number
of New Books

Extensive changes and rearrangements of
the interior of the Carnegie Library which
have been going on during the holidays are
now nearing completion, and space for sey-
eral thousand new volumes has been added
to the present library facilities of the college.
This new space was badly needed in the
building, which has become rather crowded
due to the number of new books which have
been added during the year.

According to college authorities, nearly
four thousand new volumes have been bought
since the first of September, and this large
influx of books had completely overrun facili-
ties for taking care of them. Additional shelf
space has been provided by the rearrange-
ment of the present book cases and addition
of a number of new ones to take care of
the overflow. At the same time the entire
interior of the building is being repainted.

In order to make room for the added cases,
it was necessary to do away with a great deal
of the available reading room space in the
building. The main reading and magazine
room has been converted into one of the
largest book rooms and a_ smaller space
has been devoted to magazines and news-
papers. Reading rooms on the second floor
have likewise been cut down to a great ex-
tent and more shelves put in.

College officials state that this additional |,

space will not only accommodate the present
contents of the library, but will also provide
space for a number of other new books ‘which
the college will receive in the future. Under
a grant from the Carnegie Foundation, Da-
vidson annually receives $5,000 for the pur-
-chase of books. This fund was in effect for

The Three Black Pennys, by Joseph |

| Wake Forest Beats
’Cats by 8-1 Score

Deacons Make Seven Runs in First
Three Innings

| Wake Forest ‘gave their pitcher, Joe
| Meador, perfect support, and coupled timely
hitting with Davidson errors and the wildness
of Croker, Davidson hurler, to defeat the
Wildcats Monday afternoon, 8-1, in the first
Big Five tilt for the Davidsonians. Except
for the first three innings, it was a close
diamond encounter.

The Deacons tallied seven runs in those
initial three brackets. Croker hit two bats-

| men and issued two free passes. Wake Forest

made six of the nine hits of the afternoon
and the only two miscues of the performance
occurred in those same three innings that
gave the visitors the winning margin. Fea-
turing Wake Forest’s attack was a home run
by “Jit” Benton in the third with one on.
After that Croker and the entire Davidson
team settled down except for the seventh

| frame, when Croker issued two walks, Wake

Forest hit safely a couple of times and Croker
threw wild to the catcher to let in the Dea-
cons’ additional tally.

Davidson obtained safe bingles in ,only
three innings. Two came in the first stanza

when Mills beat out an infield hit, stole sec-

ond, and later scored on Goodson’s single
to right. Armfield garnered a double in the

| second, and in the seventh Davidson added
| the only two other hits of the afternoon, a

single by Armfield and a double by Bradsher.
The outfielders of both, teams took hon-

| ors. Cobb and Bethune, both of Wake For-
| est, pulled sensational © shoe-string catches,

rolling over, but coming up with the bail
in their possession. Bradsher and Morrison,
of Davidson, both went far back into their
territory to snag hard-hit balls.

Wake Forest pulled a couple of fast double
plays, and “Buck” Mills of Davidson did an
unassisted double play stunt for Davidson.
Bethune of Wake Forest and Captain Arm-
field of Davidson were the only two players
to connect safely twice.

‘

Box score:

Wake Forest : Ab RH Po A
GODPRGh see seseno ccs 3 1 1 1 0
BeMillsse2b: one soe 4 2 0 4 4

\BiSt@he rh soe aes 4 1 1 1. °0
OVEN we 4 90 1° 12\o
BAnD is8 eo sus ceecsce5 1 1 1 3)
Bethune, cf -------_- 4 1 ia 2 0
Wihitey lta see 1 0 0 0 0
Ih Fufiosnl, Ip) 3 1 1 0 3
BUGKS\ Cc esceec ees 3 1 1 6 0
leMGador) p sees 253 0 1 0 4

ROCA Sse eae 34 8 WN) aiv7/5V.!

Davidson Ab R.H .Po A
BisMillswass/2c2o ccc a2 4 1 1 5 0
Bernhardt, 3b ~----_- 4 0 0 0 1
Goodson, 2b --------- 4 0 1 2 2
leForetqosn, Mp) 4 0 0 6 0
Armfield, ¢ ~-.------ 4 0 2 6 Z
Mathisentis i222 22s 3 0 0 1 0
Morrison, If ----.-___ 4 0 0 2 0
Bradsher, cf ~-.---_- 3 0 1 5 0
Grokerjip\es a 2 0, 0 0 2

Totalsweea es 30 1 i CH 7

Score by innings: F

RHE
Wake Forest ,-------- 232 000 100—8 9 0
Davidsonmessesssse a= 100 000 000-1 5° 2

Summary: Errors, “Proctor, Mills. Two-
base hits, Armfield, Bradsher. Home run,
Benton. Double plays, Benton to Mills to
Joyner; Meador to Earp to Joyner; B. Mills
(unassisted). Stolen bases, E. Mills, Earp,
B. Mills. Base on balls, off Meador 3; off
Croker 6, Struck out, by Meador 5; by
Croker 6, Hit by pitcher, by Meador (Cro-
ker) ; by Croker (Lister, Mills). Wild pitch,
Croker. Left on bases, Wake Forest 7; Da-
vidson 5. Umpire, Brandon. Time, 1:45.

Davidson Five and
Ten Years Ago °

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO

The class of.’26 is rapidly “rounding its
commencement plans into completion. The
three speakers have been selected and have
consented to deliver the addresses. The com-
mencement invitations have been ordered and
should be ready for distribution in a few
days.

DAVIDSON TEN YEARS AGO

Murray, of A. and E., and Currie, of Da-
vidson, staged a pitchers’ battle in Charlotte
Saturday in which the former was the victor
by the count of 3-0. The game was the best
exhibition of the national pastime seen in
Charlotte this year. Although two errors
are chalked up against each team, none of
these miscues. affected the final résult.

Wisconsin Conducts
College Experiment

The Nation, New York Weekly,
Publishes Criticisms by
Professors

Madison, Wis.—(IP)—As plans were be-
ing made here to investigate the results thus
far of the Experimental College at the Uni-
versity of Wisconsin with a view either to
abandonment or extension of the experiment,
“The Nation,” New York weekly, on March
25 published an article of criticism of the
college by Eliseo Vivas, of the University
of, Wisconsin, along with a rejoinder by Dr.

periment in the fall of 1927.

The import, briefly, of Vivas’ article is
that the Experimental College thus far has
proved capable of giving only a more or less
superficial education .to its students. . Dr.
Meiklejohn replies that when the university
is attempting to find out what has been done
thus far, it is no time for criticism of the
college by a professor who is not entirely
familiar with its workings or results.
Described briefly, the plan of the Experi-
mental College is as follows (keeping in mind
that it is experimental and subject to what-
ever changes the administration believes ad-
visable) :

It is a fwo-year course, to which only stu-
dents of the right type are admitted, taking
up the first two years of college. The course
of study is based on two gre
that of the Greeks, and that of the modern
United States. All other study hinges about
this.

Vivas contends in his article in “The Na-
tion” that it has been demonstrated that the
students in the college are inclined to lack

mands discipline, that the teachers, because
they are rather young, are not specialists in
their subjects, and that discussions by the
students are apt to be a superficial means of

—7

Alexander Meiklejohn, who began the ex- |

experience in that sort of study which de- |

NEWS FROM OTHER HILLS

Harrisburg, Pa—(IP)—A plan whereby
small colleges situated near large universi-
ties can cut down their teaching costs by
drawing from the university’s graduate body
for members of its faculty, was proposed
here recently by Dr. Robert T. Hance, of
the University of Pittsburgh, who spoke be-
fore the Pennsylvania Academy of Science.

Dr. Hance told of the plan adopted At
Pittsburgh whereby oné graduate student
teaches for a semester in a nearby college
for $800, returning to the university at the
end of the semester to continue his graduate
studies.

Rochester, N. Y.—(1P)—After interview-
ing more than 2,000 candidates for admis-
sion to the University of Rochester, Charles
R. Dalton has reached the conclusion that
the studious type of student has displaced
the “rah-rah” kind of collegian. Prospective
students, he says, now shop around for the
kind of courses they may obtain, instead of
blindly going to college for the sake of go-
ing to college.

“Boys scarcely in their teens,” he said re- |
cently, “now approach me and inquire about |
specialized subjects and what facilities col- |
leges have for meeting their individual re- |
‘quirements, The seriousness of their inquiries |
leads me to believe that future college gen-
/erations will be far more intent upon schol-

astic work than were their predecessors.”
|

Athens, Ga.—(IP)—More than 700 stu-
dents of the University of Georgia gathered
| in mass meeting recently to protest the ac-
| tion of the board of directors of the Y. M.
|C. A. in disregarding their election of Ray
| Woodall as president of the organization.

Woodall entered the race as a dark horse,
, and his name was written in by enough stu-
| dents to give him a majority of 100. Officials
| ruled his name should have been announced
| nirie days before the election.
| At the mass meeting the students voted
| that. unless Woodall was given the presi-
| dency, they would recommend the abolition

| of the local organization.

| It has been charged by the students that
|the “Y” is not using its money wisely, and
| they have asked an investigation of the ex-
| penditure of student-contributed funds.

fee alitaais further charged that the students
| have not been given a proper voice in the
| affairs of the organization.

| Cambridge, Mass.—(IP)—One

of the

at civilizations— | most impressive sights in years was enacted |

jon the Charles River here recently when
| the entire Harvard rowing flotilla took to
| the water in an array that stretched for al-
most half a mile. The display was arranged
for the benefit of moving picture concerns
| and photographers.

Twenty-eight crews, varsity, freshmen,
150-pounders, class and house eights, lined
up three abreast, with the varsity combina-
tions at the rear of the procession, just be-
| low the Weekes Bridge and facing the Larz

obtaining an education. | Anderson Memorial Bridge. In addition to

Dr. Meiklejohn replies, that while he is | the eight-oared boats, eight coaching launches
not entering into a debate as to the merits | anda dozen single sculls completed the Crim-
of the criticism, the student discussions are | 80 exhibition.
only a part of the course of study, that fre-| After the Harvard fleet had been photo-
quent reports are required on outside read-| gtaphed, Coach Charles Whiteside put his
ing. varsity crews through a four-mile workout.
The experiment has aroused widespread | eee
interest in world educational circles, and on| New York—(IP)—In an article in the
its success is believed to depend largely the | Journal of Higher Education telling of the
future trend in American education. |,results of a survey. Stephen H. Fisher de-
|clares that contrary to a widely accepted
It is my hope that the Commission (Wick- belief about the work of the large privately-
ersham) shall secure an accurate determina- | ¢"dowed universities, the state universities
tion of fact and cause, following them with |
constructive, courageous conclusions which |

are the ones that turn out the greatest. sci-
entists.

The rank of institutions for numbers of
good scientists turned out, Fisher said, is as
follows:

Johns Hopkins, the University of Kansas,
University of Chicago, University of Penn-
sylvania, Harvard, University of Indiana,
University of California, and University: of
Michigan.

Johns Hopkins, he said, gained first rank
because it attracted so many graduates of
other institutions, while the University of
Kansas based its record on its own merits.

The dislike of school administrators for
trade unionism among ‘teachers is under-
standable enough, but we believe that the
close association of teachers with labor
groups is a wholesome thing, and there is
no question of the value of independent criti-
cism of the educational machine from within
the system itself—The Nation.

KITTENS BEATEN
(Contnued from page 3)

West). pee tee ee Secs 0 0 0 0 oO
Motalse vesssee sos 29 0 3:24 9
Charlotte ADS Re Hes Or A

IMOPtSi-cbieeceecseoe 4 1 3 1 0

Black Gtosce8ce sles 3, 0 0 1 0

Bell esScessenre ieee 3 1 2 0 1

Gadd Gbvvesccueccs 4 0 1 2 0

Daniels, 1b --.-------5 1 2 5 0

Funderburk, If ------ 1 2 0 3 0

NHOUDG IE coneenaces 5 0 0 2 0

Beam ussesecs stan 4 1 1 + 13 1

Mulligan, p --------- 4 0 1 0 3
MO6talsceeessese 33 6 10 27 5

x—Batted for Koonce in 8th.

Freshmen —~------- 000 000 000-0

Ghanlottevseeeeaas 004 000 20x—6
Errors: Blanton, McLemore. Two-base

hits, Morris, Beam, Bell. Three-base hit,

Morris. Stolen bases, Bell, 2. Sacrifice, Blan-
ton. Double play, Koonce to McLean, Left
on bases, Freshmen 5; Charlotte 13, Base
on balls, off Koonce 8; off West 1; off Mul-
ligan 3. Struck out, by Koonce 3; by West
2; by Mulligan 13. Hits, off Koonce, 9 in 7
innings; off West, 1 in 1 inning. Passed
ball, Beam. Losing pitcher, Koonce. Umpire,
Ferguson.

- $TOP THIEF!

74,546
cars were
stolen last
year, ac-
cording to
the reports
of only 26
cities, made
to the Na-
tional Automobile Dealers’ Asso-
ciation. What was the total num-
ber of cars stolen? You guess.

Let us prescribe for that “gone
feeling” when you can’t find the
car you parked “just a little while
ago.”

Fire, Collision, Property Dam-
age, and Liability “ills” can also
be prescribed for here.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.

Insurance Department
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

McAlister Carson ('13), Manager
M. B. Speir (’26)

MAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA

will bring public understanding and command |
public support of its soutions.—President
Hoover as quoted by Collier’s in an editorial |
calling on Wickersham to make clear the re- |

Davidson Theatre

port of his committee.

ft

Clothing

Friendly Five
Sport Shoes

the first time this year and extends for four
more years. j

STETSON “D” STORE

PHONE 206
OPPOSITE CAMPUS

CLOTHES FOR
THE
COLLEGE MAN

|
|
ee

Furnishing

John Ward

Monday, 20th and Tuesday 22nd
MARY PICKFORD

“KIKI”
Wednesday, 22nd
“CHARLEY CHAN CARRIES ON”

WARNER OLAND
Thursday, 23rd

“MAN OF THE WORLD

WILLIAM POWELL
Friday, 24th

“CITY STREETS”

GARY COOPER
Saturday, 25th
“FAIR WARNING”

GEORGE O’BRIAN
VV VV VV VV VV VV VV VV VV VV VV VV VV VV VYVVYVVVVYYVVVVVVYVVVVVY
