6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 29, 1931

Competition in Gym and
Sigma Delta Psi Begins
Last Week in February

Contest Will Feature Thirty-Eight
Gymnastic and Fourteen Sigma
Delta Psi Events

The Annual Spring Gymnastic Com-
petition along with tryouts for Sigma
Delta Psi will be started the latter part
of February, according to an announce-
nent made recently by Captain Norton
G. Pritchett.

This Gymnastic Competition consists of
ten events on the parallel bars, ten events
on the horizontal bars, eight events on
the horse, and eight events in tumbling.
The point basis will be used in comput-
ing the scores in the different events. The
person compiling the greatest number of
points will receive a trophy. A regular
class in gymnastic work will be begun

Hazing Studied at
Texas A. & M. College

Senior Class Invites Committee of
Texas Legislators to Make
Survey

College Station, Texas—(IP)—In order
that the exact conditions in respect to haz-
ing at A. & M. College of Texas may be
clear in the public mind, the Senior class
of the college has invited a committee of
Texas legislators to make a thorough per-
sonal survey of the situation.

Motion to that effect was adopted recently
at a class meeting, following close on the
heels of the publication in the undergradu-
ate newspaper, The Battalion, of extracts
from letters received by President T. O.
Walton from various quarters in which the
writers censured, and in some instances se-
verely denounced, certain alleged practices
which, they set forth, they had been advised

immediately in order to give the men
who waft to try out in this competi-
tion a chance to get themselves into good
condition,

Last year Frank R. Brown won first |
place, W. V. Carter won second place)
and H. F. Bost" took third place. |

Competition for Sigma Delta Psi will!
also be started during February. There
are fourteen events which a person must
pass: before he is taken into Sigma Delta
Psi.

As soon as anyone passes these, he
is immediately taken in. Some events have
been changed this year. Instead of the
220 low hurdles, the 120 low hurdles have
been substituted with ‘only six hurdles.
The time in the hundred yard swim has
been changed from two minutes to one
minute and forty five seconds. The pole
vault has been discontinued and thestope
climb has been substituted. To qualify
in this a person must climb twenty feet
in twelve seconds,

Every person in school is eligible for
this, and Freshmen
quested to try out.

especially are re-
If a man comes out
when he is a Fresliman, he has four years
in which to pass all the events, because
when a person has once passed an event
he does not have to repeat that event the
following year. In this way he can con-
centrate his efforts on the events which |
he has not yet completed.

Each year a trophy is given to the
man qualifying in Sigma Delta Psi who
has compiled the greatest of
points.

|
|

number
|

Teacher at Chicago
Predicts New Utopia

|

Poverty Will Be Abolished in Future
Says Dr. Ogburn
|
Chicago, I1l—(IPJ—A future in which |
man will live in urbanized communities |
surrounded by forests, speaking one com-
mon language and many specialized lan- |
guages; where poverty is abolished, and |
perhaps “plumbers will discuss Aristotle,” |
and where morals have lost their force |
and the home its supremacy, is pictured |
by Dr. Wm, F, Ogburn, professor of so-|
ciology at the University of Chicago. |
“The future society of man,” says Dr. |
Ogburn, “will be one where the number |
f inventions per year will be larger and |
larger and where the accumulation or
civilization and material culture will be
greater and greater, A Person could once
get pretty well acquainted with his cul-
ture at 16 or 17 years of age, but in the
future it will require 40 or 45 years,
“Most persons will not try to learn it all,
but will become specialists and speak, in

addition to their specialist's language, a
common language popularized by the
great agencies of communication, the

talkies, the radio, newspapers and liter-
ature.

“There is no period of quiet and peace
ahead, but rather one of continual change.
This condition of change will change our
code of morals, for the past cannot offer
guidance for an ever-changing society.
Right and wrong will give way before
social expediency. Also the majesty of
the law will lose’ its prestige, for laws are
difficult to build up in a changing society.

New York—(IP)—Fifty thousand dollars
has been voted by the, alumni of Columbia
University here as the beginning of an en-
dowment of the university’s athletics, in line
‘with a plan put forward several weeks ago
by President Nicholas Murray Butler.

Love was the creator of all the great
thoughts and’ great deeds of men in all

existed as forms of hazing at the school.

The Seniors expressed the belief that the
legislative investigation would serve to stop
such rumors, inasmuch as it is contended
by the students that no serious forms of haz-
ing exist on the campus.

The action of the Senior class was first
suggested in an editorial in The Battalion,
of which Robert L. Herbert is editor.

President Walton expressed entire ap-
proval of the action of the Senior class, de-
claring that he also believed a survey by the
legislative committee would do much to clear
up unfounded rumors.

“The Seniors in voting for the investiga-
tion, showed their attitude toward hazing,”
he said,

DAVIDSON MEETS DUKE

(Continued from page 1)
The Blue Devils met
last week when the Red Terrors from State

a severe setback
seemed to get back into old form and tram-
pled the Blue Devils to the tune of 24-19,
State held the lead throughout the game and
were only headed once in the early minutes
of the second half. Duke will probably be
in a vengeful mood when the ’Cats tie up
with them.

Duke has won one and lost two in the
Southern Conference rating at the date of

| this writing. They also lost to Maryland in

an early contest, but Maryland is handing
the wise men big surprises every week now.
Among many, Duke numbers the fine Navy

yquintet in the ever growing list of the van-

quished.

Davidson will have an enviable record to
defend in that game unless they drop one
to Lenoir-Rhyne, which not probable.
starting off with a victory over the highly-
touted Red Terrors, the Cats have brushed

is

| aside every opponent that has faced them,

but not without difficulty. Carolina fol-
lowed State on the downward road; then

Spring Holidays

This year the spring holidays for
Davidson will begin on April the
second at 12:30 P. M., and will be
completed on April the eighth at
8:30 A. M. These holidays will last
four and a half days and during
them the students will be home on
Easter Sunday for the first time in
several years; Easter Sunday falls
on the fifth of April. These holi-
days are given annually at approxi-
mately the same time every year so
as to give the students a little rest
from the steady grind that they
have been in since the Chrstmas
holidays, and also to give them a
rest before the final examinations in
the latter part of May.

During these holidays ‘re-exams
will be given to those students who
for any reason missed an examina-
tion or who failed one course or
more but made as much as sixty on
the examination that they took.
These re-exams are given every
year to enable the students to pass
their courses.

aye been investigated still further, and it |
| ars that we are here face to face with

Book Review

James Jeans: “The Mysterious Universe,”
pp. viii—163. The Macmillan Co.,
New York

This little book, now discussed around the
world by.«scientists and philosophers, con-
sists of five chapters bearing the following
titles: “The Dying Sun,” “The New World
of Modern Physics,” “Matter and Radia-
tion,”, “Relativity and Ether,” “Into Deep
Waters.” The last of the five titles may
properly be applied to the entire volume.
Yet there is much in each chapter that can
be comprehended by the layman.

The central--thought- of the book,.as I see
it, is that the outstanding achievement of
twentieth century physics is not the theory
of relativity with its welding together of
space and time, not the theory of quanta
with its present apparent negation of the |
laws of causation, not the dissection of the
atom with its resultant discovery that things
are not what they seem; it is the general
recognition that we are not yet in contact |

with ultimate reality. Physical science is in|
pursuit of this reality as never before. In|
this pursuit material substance has been |

A ie up into electrons and protons. These |

ele#tric-eharges sand circular wave motion. |
Unbottle this circular wave motion, and it |
proceeds in a straight line as radiation at |
somewhat greater velocity than before. Here |
we have light and all the forms of radia-
tion that -penetrate interstellar space. It
would thus appear that bottled up electric |
waves operating with circular motion at a!
lesser velocity manifest themselves as ma-
terial substance, while matter is transformed
into light, X-rays, cosmic rays, and the rest
the moment the circular feature of the wave
motions of electrons (or electric charges)
is straightened out and speeded up. Thus
matter is potential light. If this be true,
then the universe came into being when the |
Great Architect exclaimed, “Let there be
light !’’

Fresh Defeated by
Fast Belmont Five

Belmont Abbey brought a better drilled
and better shooting basketball team to the
Davidson court last Monday night and left
the Freshmen holding the short end of a
34 to 29 score. The Frosh tried hard, espe-
cially in the last half, but were up against
a better team.

Diamond _.of the visitors started things go-
ing with a basket early in the game and his
teammates helped the cause along for the
rest of the contest. At the first quarter, Bel-
mont led, 10 to 4, and still at half-time, 18
to 10. The Freshmen pulled up, 22 to 26, by
the end of the third quarter, but could not
stop the Belmont offense enough to over-
come the lead with their seven points in the
last period.

Captain Evans of Davidson was the star
of the Freshmen, both on shooting and floor-
work, garnering 14 points to win high scor-
ing honors of the game. Captain Frierson,
Belmont forward, was not far behind him

| with 11 points. Belmont had a particularly

good-working combination in Frierson,

Campbell and Murphy.

Davidson Pos. Belmont Abbey
Lafferty (1) F.F, Frierson (11)
Evans (14) LORY Diamond (8)
Rowan (0) G; Murphy (8)
Manson (2) R.G. Doris (2)
Morris (6) L.G. Campbell (5)

Subs: Davidson—Holland (5). McLean

(1), Halverstadt. Belmont Abbey—Wheeler.
Referee, Pritchett (Davidson).

in terms of mathematical concepts involving
space and time.

The reader lays down Jean's little book
with the conviction that substance about us,
and all the universe beyond, are far and
away more complex in their structure than
has ever dawned upon the mind of the man
in the street.

Thos. W. Lingle.

Radiation of all kinds is generated by the
breaking up of the atom under extreme |
heat in the interior of the sun and multi-
tudinous The substance of all the
heavenly bodies, so brilliant on clear nights, |
as well as of our own sun, is thus being
transformed into radiation on a vast scale, |
so that our sun is decreasing in weight at |
the rate of 250 million tons per minute. All
the material universe, excepting a few plan-
ets, exists at fearfully high temperatures,
while radiation proceeds through interstel-
lar space characterized by temperatures of
the other extreme. So far as we know, this |
radiation is dissipated in space, and the ma-
terial universe is runing down steadily and
certainly as a clock, Our own sun, dwindling
through aeons of time, is but a fragment of |
its original self, and is destined to dissi-
pate itself in radiation, leaving the earth and
other planets to wander far afield into the
frigid realms of interstellar space. All this
indicates that the material universe was
brought into being at some remote time in
the past, and cannot have been eternal.

stars.

In the meantime, all the motions of elec-
trons, planets, galaxies, and remote nebulac |
indicate that the Great Architect of the uni-
verse was a pure mathematician. “Nature's |
great book,” says Galileo, “is written in |
mathematical language.” The universe is not |

an application of mechanics, but is explained

|

|
the former S. I. A. A. champs, Erskine, |
were defeated in the Davidson gym. After |
the struggle with exams, the Wildcats took |
up where they left off and nosed V. P. I. |
out by 22-20. Close and fast games seem to |
be the ’Cats’ method of meting out defeat |
to their opponents, as was seen against |
State, Carolina, and the Gobblers. |

The schedule does not show a game with
Lenoir-Rhyne, but worried lest his team
might lose the knack, Coach Younger has |
had another game added to the rather slim |
schedule. Final negotiations have not been |
made but it is expected that the ’Cats will |

play the Bears here either tonight or to- |

my

ages.—Lafcadio Hearn.

“DRUGS” “SODA”
Make Our Store Your Store
Students’ Supplies
WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“PRESCRIPTIONS” “SUNDRIES”

morrow night.

Fresh Meet Barium

The Freshman wrestling team
will open their 1931 season at Ba-
rium Springs ‘Tuesday night. Ba-
rium has a team that has had sev-
eral years of experience and will
hold an advantage over the Fresh-
men in that respect, the Wildkittens
having only one man who has ever
wrestled before this year.

Nothing is known as to the line-
up for Davidson as the tryouts for
the meet have not been held. How-
ever, Coach “Doc” Unger is. well
pleased with the showing of the
men out for the team and is in
high hopes of annexing the match.

NEW JOURNAL PUBLISHED

(Continued from page 1)
thirteen chapters have been added, making
a present total of nineteen. The activities
the chapters, the accomplishment of the high
aims and objects of the society, and the
merit which one must attain ‘for election,
have made it an honor much coveted.

One of the nine founders of the fraternity
was Dr. James M. Douglas, the head of the
physics department at Davidson. The first
meeting of the group was held at his home
and he has watched over its growth and
activities with deep interest since that time.
Dr. Douglas graduated from Davidson with
the A.B. degree in 1893, and took his A.M.
from here in 1894, After several years of
high school teaching he went to Johns Hop-
kins University, where he received, in 1901,
his Ph.D. in physics, chemistry, and math-
ematics. Ever since then he has been head
of the Davidson physics department. While
in college he was a leader in many branches
of activity, and since then has held and is
holding many important positions in the
scientific, commercial, and industrial world.
He is Chancellor of the Executive Council
of Sigma Pi Sigma.

“Another prominent ‘Davidson alumnus is
a member of the fraternity Executive Coun-
cil. He is Robert W. Grayes, from Rome,
Ga., who graduated from Davidson with»a
B.S. in 1926. Majoring in \physics, he re-
ceived him M.A. from Prinveton in 1928.
He is now a student in medicine at Duke
Unversity. Mr. Graves has been oné-af the
most interested and active members of the
society, and a very earnest worker as a
councillor.

Relief Fund

Acting together, the College
Church and the Davidson Metho-
dist Church formed the “Christian
Relief Association” to aid the needy
families in and around Davidson.

Funds for the association were
raised through contributions and the
sale of old clothes. In the collec.
tion of the clothes, the Y. M. C. A.
Students
were appointed for each of the dor-
mitories, and in this way, old clothes
of the students were collected.
The Relief Association realized
that due to the financial depression
and the severe weather, numerous
families were actually in need of
clothing and financial aid. Accord-
ingly, the collected clothes were
sold in “rummage” sales, held in
the Civic League Hall and the pro-
ceeds used for the more desperate
Mrs. W. L. Lingle was in

charge of the relief campaign.

was asked to co-operate.

cases.

Freshman Scoring

Field Foul Total

Players Goals Goals Points
Evans, f ______- 12 9 33
Rowan, c ___-_- 7 0 14
Holland, c _____- 3 4 10
Morris, g ------- 4 2 10
Lafferty, f _-.._- 4 1 9
Manson, g ----_-_- 2 0 4
McLean, f ___-__ 0 1 1

Notale 32 17 81

Y
@) Complete Service

for School Publications

nnuals
Magazines

Cataloas

Jiew Books

Queen Cily PrintingCo.
Chaclotte.2.C.
N

Davidson Theatre

Mon. & Tues., February 2nd & 3rd
“LITTLE CEASOR”

—with—

DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS, JR.
Wednesday, February 4th

“GREAT MEADOW”
—with—

JOHN MACK BROWN & ELEANOR BOARDMAN
Thursday, February 5th

“GOING WILD”

—with—-

JOE E.

BROWN

Friday, February 6th
“INSPIRATION”

—with—

GRETA GARBO & ROBERT MONTGOMERY

’
