ty

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 28, 1931

—_—SSSSS===

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00. the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

GRIER MARTIN....
M. CONWAY

T=)

..----Editor-in-Chief
--Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

‘ditor
Editor
Editor
Editor
‘ditor

-Managing
-Managing
-Managing
-Managing
pesens co Athletic i
SUM EHIDNSON deccicvecccdc cccscccssuscseag Feature Editor

K ----Feature itor
-.--Review Editor
-Exchange Editor
-Associate Editor
-Associate Editor
-Associate Editor

SePoR<b=oRrom

=

of EPS
mt to
3

<

n

BUSINESS STAFF

A. M. MANSON ..-Assistant Business Manager
A. L. MEBANE_ -Assistant ‘Business Manager
i, W. WHITTE -Assistant Business Manager
. R. MORROW. ereduwnne! Subscription Manager
Wiel OHINSONissorsd: cs cccus.sdalcus clucuuaueeutennuene Solicitor
eek VA Reteabkesconcaccanes ---Solicitor
i: By AWOOMTONEs ceccsccs cece -Solicitor
Al aH eaMANS ONeacais sucubecccscuebbacouadacosecesu Solicitor
REPORTERS’ CLUB
AS oH AWHLE DENA Diiuvseskcuccscscbdascuscecatcas, ----President
NP OMA Me bsdeiavsdnccdbddbaccsccnuslossdeasacsoe Vice-President
Wik NE Ul WIS Sibssab abu cocoecccbansesouase Secretary-Treasurer
R. ‘H. ALDERMAN F. H. COVINGTON

. GAMBLE

B. B. TAYLOR S.
; = LORRAINE

G. E. BAILEY

g: E. BOYD . POWELL

Ss. P. PRESTON PRATT-THOMAS
W. R. WARD F, SCHENCK
O. CASALI . M. THOMPSON
L. W. SE TOT fa W. T._ THOMPSON
JACK WILLIAM J. A. HUNTER

OCTOBER 28, 1931

<=

Alas! by some degree of woe
We every bliss must gain;
The heart can ne'er a transport know
‘ That never feels a pain—Lord Lyttleton.

PARAGRAPHICS

The effect of reports is noticeable. Men _ realize
that their work is not up to standard, or they are
urged onward by the belief that they can do better,
and therefore .do more work just after the reports
are out.

D.

People passing on the Statesville highway will no
longer ask thé name of the preparatory school on
the eastern side of the road. We now have a sign
for all the curious ones to read. pat

D.

Two games on Richardson Field on successive
week-ends and not a single score has been marked
up. That was a brilliant show for the defense of all
teams involved. :

D:
The football team needs the full support of the

student body for the remainder of the games on the

schedule. They are all going to be hard to win.

HONORARY FRATERNITIES

Honorary fraternities are bidding new men at
the present time; some have already sent out their
invitations, while others will do so in the near
future. The accusation has often been made that
these groups are of no real value to the students
who become members of them, and in many cases
this accusation has been highly justified. On the
other hand the facts in the case must be regarded
before such a decision is made.

If a passive attitude of mere acceptance of
honor is taken by the men who enter these organ-
izations the true purpose is immediately defeated,
in so far as the acquisition of any benefit is con-
cerned. But, if the men who accept invitations to
these honorary fraternities realize that they will
get out of them just what they put in, the results
will be far more successful, for the fraternity and
for the man concerned.

The students who become members should
keep in mind the fact that although the name
“honorary” is given to the fraternities, they should
not be entered with the idea of getting nothing
from them save honor alone. The interest shown
later and the active participation in the program
of the fraternity bring more pleasure than the
enjoyment gotten from having one more line of
honors in the annual.

There are a few basic principles which have
been given here before, concerning the accept-
ance of bids to honorary fraternities. In the first
place, each group has its interest centered on one
particular field of endeavor. This field may be
scientific, classical, musical, literary, military, or
otherwise. To accept, the man should he vitally
interested in the work. :

Second, the person invited to join is supposed
to be proficient in that particular field of endeavor.
If, through some error, the fraternity has made
a mistake in their selection, the student should not
consider joining, as it would be to the disadvan-
tage of himself and of the fraternity.

Finally, no one’s feelings will be affected by
acceptance or refusal. The men extending the bid
understand that there are many things to enter
into the decision of the invited one. /The fact that
they have invited him to membership shows that
they will be glad if he accepts.

Thus we ‘see that only through active partici-
pation in the work of the organization does a man
get the most from his association with these
groups. And only in that way-.will the honorary
fraternities be effective. :

|

ANOTHER OPPORTUNITY

Recently there appeared in the columns of this
paper an editorial on making use of one’s oppor-
tunities. Of course a list of the various oppor-
tunities which a person has at Davidson would
cover several pages, but we would like to take
this opportunity to bring out something decidedly
useful which the student body as a whole does not
take advantage of.

The attendance at Y. M. C. A. Vespers this
year has been very creditable in comparison with
past years. But even at that only about one-half
the students attend these meetings -regularly.
There are a great many men in school who never
go. To say that they are missing an opportunity
would be putting it mildly. They are missing one
of the best things in college life.

Vesper services are the only essentially student
meetings which are held at Davidson, and there-
fore deserve the support of every man in the col-
lege. The “Y” secures the best speakers it.is pos-
sible for them to obtain, and there are always
some interesting added features of a musical na-
ture.

The Sunday afternoon meetings never last over
forty-five minutes or an hour at the most, and it is
an easy matter to go right from supper to the
auditorium, They are held by the studerits and for
the students—why not give them your support
every Sunday?

EXCHANGE

At Washington and Lee University last Friday and
Saturday, according to The Ring-tum Phi, the newspaper
of Washington and Lee, there was held the Southern
Interscholastic Press Association Convention. At this
convention there were delegates from the District of
Columbia and six states: Missouri, Virginia, South Caro-
lina, Kentucky, West Virginia, and North Carolina. From
the state of North Carolina were Central High School
of Charlotte, and Burlington High School of Burlington.
The delegates arrived Thursday night and were enter-
tained at an informal reception at the Delta Tau Delta
house; at that time they were entertained by Charles
Blake, the college magician, who performed a few of his
many tricks of deceiving the eyes of the audience. Twelve
silver cups were awarded to the best publications repre-
sented.

The Salemite, of Salem College, tells us that they had
a representative at the State Atwater Kent radio audi-
tion in Raleigh held last Monday night. Miss Doris
Kimel, a Senior at Salem, represented Salem and the city
of Winston-Salem in this audition.

The Greensboro College paper, The Collegian,. tells
us that they were represented by two young singers, Miss
Alice Barrow, of Elizabeth City, and Miss Annie Laurie
Felder, of Greensboro. The local contest was held in
Greensboro last month and Miss Barrow won first place,
and Miss Felder, second. As these papers went to press
the results were not known, so The Davidsonian does not
know the results.

From The Collegian, of Greensboro College, we quote
the following editorial on “Optimism” :

“What a delightful sound the last gurgle of the con-
firmed optimist would make as he slowly\ choked after
saying: ‘Perhaps the depression is really a»blessing in
disguise.’ Yet before allowing him to choke-he might be
given the benefit of a doubt.

“Perhaps his, statement is true! How many students
have gone into a profession merely because it carried a
fairly substantial salary and seemed an easy way out, in
preference to work which they were really fitted to do,
yet which might’ be a peer investment financially.

“Today, what profession has not been touched by the
depression? To what must the college student turn if
he subordinates his real interest to the call of—money—
money? Do not the careers of teaching, law, medicine,
journalism, etc., zest on the same basis—a long struggle,
a hard climb with small income, and perhaps success in
the end? The flood of migration to the teaching field has
been checked by the lack of ready positions and the recent
salary cut. Teaching is daily becoming more of am art.
Students are looking now for work in which their inter-
est is primarily centered. With no profession beckoning
with the almighty dollar there is no reason why the stu-
dent may not enter the work for which he has an inner
urge, thus adding his talents to the field where they read-
ily belong.” 2

One of our rivals on the basketball court has eliminated
this sport from their intercollegiate sports and has turned
it into an intra-mural sport. Lenoir Rhyne, whom we play
every year on the court, has come to this action after sev-
eral years of controversy over the matter. The Lenoir
Khynean, their paper, informs us of the sad news. We
have always been friendly rivals with this college and the
games on the court have always been very hard fought
and Davidson has never considered it as an easy game.
There were several reasons for eliminating this sport at
Lenoir Rhyne. In the first place, there was less interest in
it than any other sport there; in the second place, the
Athletic Council believes the students will as a whole
enjoy the intra-mural sport as well, if not better, than the
intercollegiate sport, and will derive more benefit out
of it.

The Campus Comment, of Mary Baldwin College, a bi-
monthly publication, announces with pride that their last
year’s annual, the Bluestocking, was given First Class
Honor Rating by the National Scholastic Press Associa-
tion. The maximum {score that could be gained was 1,000
points; the Bluestocking obtained 900 points to gain the
term “Excellent.” One criticism that Was” made of this
annual was that it had “a difficult theme to develop in

DES ENTREFILETS

The United States chose a most fitting way in
which to pay homage to the late Thomas A. Edison.
At 9:59 P. M., October 21st, the entire nation, at the
request of President Hoover, was plunged into dark-
ness for the period of one minute. No more appro-
priate symbol could have been used than darkness
in order to show the sorrow of the nation over the
death of the man who gave the world light.

The traffic and street lights in all our cities went out
and in many movie theatres the screens faded out for sixty
seconds while the American nation paid its debt of mem-
ory.

In Geneva the League of Nations is facing a real
problem in the case of Manchuria. Very little prog-
ress is being made in the settlement of the dispute
between China and Japan. The troops of both nations
are occupying the territory and Japan refuses to
withdraw its troops even if China has agreed to pro-
tect Japanese citizens in Manchuria. The League
adopted a resolution asking Japan to evacuate by
November 16th, but it was not accepted by Japan.
China has agreed to observe the Briand-Kellogg pact
but Japan insists upon negotiations before the with-
drawal of troops.

Much depends upon the outcome of trouble in Man-
churia. It will, if the League is successful, prove the power
of this body and may influence the United States in re-
gard to a change of attitude toward the League of Na-
tions. It is well to note that the United States is being
represented for the first time in the League in the person
of Consil-General Gilbert. Gilbért has no official capac-
ity and is merely attending the meeting for the interests
of his country. If the League of Nations continues to
become more influential in world affairs, it will not be
many years before the United States will be forced to
become a member.

“Taxation without representation” comes to the
front again in the recent demonstration. staged at
Dartmouth in protest of the tax proposed by the
Hanover, N. H., school board on fraternities. Fifteen
hundred students, including the student council and
band, gathered at the building where the Board of
Education was holding its meeting and built bon-
fires about the place. They broke into the hall where
the president of the college was presiding over the
meeting and forced them to adjourn. The meeting was
adjourned until December 18, at which time the stu-
dents will be on Christmas vacation.

The George Washington bridge over the Hudson has
the world’s largest span. It extends 3,500 feet between
towers. This bridge, which was opened to traffic only a
few days ago, is a monument to the engineering skill of
this age of steel; it is a milestone in the road of-achieve-
ment. One would think that we were fast approaching
the limit in length of spans, but according to one author-
ity, we are only beginning. A modern suspension, bridge
of 10,000-foot span can be built with the same degree of
safety as the George Washington. bridge, said O. H.
Ammann, chief engineer of the Port of New York Au-
thority, in an address before the American Society of
Civil Engineers recently.

The arrival of Pierre Laval, Premier of France, in
this country is a subject of greatest importance in
foreign affairs. Laval’s mission is unknown, but one
may rest assured that it is of prime importance, for
otherwise the Premier would not have made such a
long journey to see President Hoover.

According to Babson, who has become famous through
his supposed powers to look into the future and forecast
events, and his actual ability to get people to pay him for
his guesses, Laval has come to this country to persuade
the United States to inflate its currency so Europe will
he able to pay off its debts easier.

With the turning down of the railroads’ plan of
a 15 per cent increase in rates, the I. C. C. has pro-
posed a plan of self-help by the use of a pool. The
I. C. C. will permit increases in some rates but not
in the manner proposed by the roads. A pool is
proposed by the commission in order to enable the
weaker roads to get funds for interest which must
be paid on bonds. The Association of Railway Execu-
tives at its meeting at Atlantic City has accepted the
plan of the commission “to help stabilize railroad
credit by a co-operated and united effort.” A com-
mittee has also been appointed to suggest to the
I. C. C. modifications of the proposals of the com-
mission to pool revenues accruing from specified in-
creased rates for assisting carriers unable to meet
their fixed charges.

The railroads are glad at the present to grasp at any-
thing which will better their condition, for at this time
more roads are being threatened with bankruptcy than
there were in the panic of 1893. Railroads are necessary
to this country and it will be only a matter of time until
their condition is bettered by legislation.

some respects. A good piece of work, however—schol-
arly.” :

.

The Kast Carolina Teachers College, of Greenville,
N. C.,, will have some splendid music this winter, accord-
ing to their paper, The Teco Echo. On November 17
they will have the Don Cossack Russian Male Chorus,
a chorus of thirty-six former officers of the Czar. “These
men, singing the song of the homeland which they have
small hope of ever seeing again, since they are exiles,
sing with such emotion that each thrills to it.’ Then in
January, they are to be entertained by the famous colora-
tura soprano, Galli-Curci. She has been famous as a
singer throughout the world for many years, so it is not
necessary) to go into details about her ability.

|
|

“ |, Of Ships & Shoes—
& Sealing Wax—
Of Cabbages & Kings...”

Duncan McBryde

THE MOURNING AFTER THE NIGHT BEFORE
Four (count ’em) verses.

Broke, broke, broke,
On thy cold gray streets, D. C.!

And I would that my wallet would supply
The wants that arise in me.

Oh well for the banker’s son,
With autos of latest makes,
Oh well for the wealthy one,
And the week-end trips he takes.

And the cruel, cold world goes on— _ _—_..
The good, the indifferent, the bad;

But oh for the touch of the ole Greenbacks
That I used to get from Dad!

Broke, broke, broke!
(And campus’d too, D. C.!)

And the metallic clink of coin‘that is gone
Shall never come back to me.

SUGGESTED SLOGANS:
(For a tailor: )

“A stitch in time will save many a blush,”
(For an auto repair shop:)
“Tf your tire is flat, we fix it;
If you are flat, we fix yout’

Our Foolish Contemporaries

Three chairs for Oofy the Offis Boy, of By the Way
fame. Here’s one of his latest:

“Come where my love lies dreaming ;
She’s snoozing beneath a tree;

Let’s tickle her cheek

And the tip of her beak

With the business like end of a bee.”

Laying Aside All Jokes

“In my class (’23) there was ONE man who didn't 3
belong to a Literary Society. They called him “IL-
LITERATE” !—Rev. W. M Hunter.

Join a Literary Society. That talk last night by
Captain Seifert was well worth hearing, as well as
the talk the week before, by Professor Blythe. Both
these speakers figured in a “Travel Talk Series” in-
stituted by the Phi Society.

SETTLING THE GANGSTER PROBLEM

We believe we have at last solved the great question of
the gangster and racketeer in America. Our remedy is
simple, but should prove effective. We can’t scare any of
the gangsters; they have the cops bribed. We can’t keep
them in jail; they have too much money. What shall we
do? Our answer is: Turn them over to the Chesterfield
Cigarette people.

THEN THEY’VE GOT TO BE GOOD!

BOOT-LAGER

We would say that any racketeer nowadays is in
the near bier business.

CONTEMPORARY THOUGHT

“You know what Sherman said war was. Well, the
same thing still goes, with R. O. T. C.’—Arnold Pate.

IN MEMORIAM:

Here’s to the boy who did not play;
But came out, injured, from the fray—
The water-boy at the ’Kitten game,
Whose unique fate has bro’t him fame;
With pail he went in, and pale he came out
Without having entered the ’Kitten-State Bout!

They say a man may be down, but never out. I am
both; down to the bottom of this page, and out cof
(homespun) material.

ALARUM. FLOURISH. EXEUNT OMNES.

Although it has one of the smallest of all standing
armies among the great nations of the world, the United
States last year spent more than any other nation on
armaments. Other nations spent for arms in ‘the order:
Soviet Union, France, Great Britain, Italy, Japan, India,
Germany,:Spain/ .

.
