DR. MYERS TO
CONDUCT SPRING
EVANGELISTIC
SERVICES

he Davidsonian

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

DR. SWAN VISITS
DAVIDSON FOR
LECTURE PERIOD

Volume XVIII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 5, 1931

/
No. 20°

Mr. David Ovens-Speaks

To Large Vesper Crowd
on Seconders of Motion

Speaker Chats Informally on Inter-
esting Subject Concerning the
nanimous Majority

IS MANAGER OF IVEY’S

Speaker Says Knowledge is Power
Only Through Its Application

Mr. David Ovens, general manager of
Ivey's department store in Charlotte, made
an unusual talk at the “Y” vespers Sunday
evening, March 1. The “Y” vesper program
committee has tried to arrange a date that
would be convenient with Mr. Ovens to
speak for some time. The audience had the
feeling that it was having a chatty little
talk with this financier and cogitating with
him on his subject. ;

Walter W. Fraley read the first 14 verses
from the Gospel according to John, and in-
troduced the speaker, Jack McKinnon and
Moffatt McConnell led in prayer, and Albert
McClure conducted the singing. Mr. Ovens’
topic was “Seconders of the Motion,” and
he treated his theme from the angle of the
business man. He indicated that in recent
years there has been a trend to glorify the
physical side of life. Having just returned
from New York City, he proved his state-
ment by the pride the citizens there take in
the new Empire State Building, which. is
a tribute to human skill and powers of con-
struction.

He asserted that the physical things were
overestimated and human thing
estimated.
church is

$ were under-

Making the statement that a
no better, than the congregation
and its preacher, he brought forcefully a
point that people neglect to think about, be-
cause many form their opinions of a church
by its stained glass, and steeples. He .de-
clared that the reason why San Francisco,
Baltimore, and Chicago were rebuilt finer
after the catastrophes that came upon them
than they were formerly, was because of the
vital spark and vision of their citizens, and
pointed out that if some calamity destroyed
Davidson, the keen spirit of Davidson's sup-
porters would restore it to its former state.

Mr. Ovens brought out some very prac-
tical. points and stressed the fact that
“knowledge is power,” only through the ap-
Plication-of knowledge. He claimed that some
of the questions the employers asked job

(Continued on page 5)

LR.C. Holds Annual

Convention at Duke

Grier Martin Chosen Vice-President
of Conference

The International Relations Club held its
eighth annual conference at Duke Univer-
sity on February 26, 27, and 28, The stu-
dents attending the sessions from Davidson
were J. W. McCutchan, J. F. Preston, Grier
Martin, and J. C. Matthews. All of these
men, with the exception of Martin, are of the
Senior class.

On Thursday, Februaty 26, the confer-
ence was addressed by Edward S. Corwin,
McCormic professor of jurisprudence,
Princeton University. His address was upon
“The Foreign Relations of China.” On Fri-
day, the 27th, and Saturday, the 28th, the
conference was addressed by M.. Pierre de
Lanux, director of the Paris Information
Office of the League of Nations, and George
Grafton Wilson, professor of international
law, Harvard University.

Grier Martin, was chosen vice-president
of the conference. The president for the
coming year will be Walton Reid, of Rol-
lins College. This institution was also se-
lected as the next meeting place for the con-
ference. Martin will be vice-president of the

, Southern section, which is composed of 55
clubs from nine Southern States. The na-
tional organization contains 255 clubs,which
devote much time to the discussion of pféva-
lent problems on international relations. Se-
lection for membership is based upon a stu-
dent’s adequate knowledge of a world-wide
import, upon which he writes a disserta-
tion.

Athletic Night Will |
Be Held This Month

|
According to an announcement Tuesday |
by Captain Norton G. Pritchett, professor |
of physical education at Davidson, Athletic |
Night, an annual affair in which Davidson |
students are publicly recognized for their
athletic performances for Davidson, has been
set for Tuesday night, March 17. One of |
the prominent Southern sports leaders has
been invited to deliver the address, but his
name has not as yet been divulged by au-|
thorities of the college.

Athletic Night is becoming one of the out- |
standing events on the college calendar at
Davidson, An eminent sports leader is |
brought here to speak, certificates and let- |

‘| day, March 3rd, the date originally

Glee Club Program

According to Jack Ramseur, pres-
ident, the Glee Club program
scheduled to be presented in Cham-
bers auditorium this week has been
postponed until Wednesday night,
March llth, at 8:15 o'clock. The
postponement was made on account
of the program of the Westminster
Choir given in Charlotte last Tues-

set for the program here.

Dr. Lingle is Appointed ©
To Important Committee

ters are awarded to the various athletes, and Committee Will Present Report on

certain other citations, in the form of cups |
and trophies, are given’ to men outstanding |
in gymnastic a¢tivity and muscular improve-
ment. Last year N. W. Daugherty, presi- |
dent of the Southern Conference, was the
speaker. A silver cup was awarded Frank
R. Brown, winner in gymnastic competition,
and another to William J. Davis, of Rome, |
Ga., for greatest physical improvement. Let-
ters and gold footballs were presented, and+
reports from the Athletic Association were
made.

Until three years ago, no such exercises
were held at Davidson, but when at that time
it had its inception, Davidson officials de-
cided to make it a public occasion of prime |
importance. It has grown decidedly in pop-
ularity in this short period, and hundreds of
Davidson students, well numerous
alumni, are present at the exercises.

as as

Deputation Goes to
Charlotte Churches

Myers Park Church is Host to
Thirteen “Y” Representatives
Over Week-End,

For the past two weeks the deputation de-|
partment of the “Y” has carried out a rather
full program, ‘sponsoring several such mis-
sions, to nearby churches and similar organ-
izations.

Probably the outstanding of recent deputa- |
tions was one which went out on Saturday,
February 21, to the Myers Park Presbyterian
Church» in Charlotte, where a number of
Queens College girls were being entertained.
It was to complete this entertainment. that
the Davidson “Y” was asked to send over
thirteen of our students. The following men |

went over Saturday afternoon and remained |
that night for this purpose: W. H. Mat-
thews, E. L. Powell, Bob Glasgow, Lynn
Huie, T. H. McCallie, S. S. Wiley, Andy
Little, Andy Manson, Ches, Arnold, A. Me- |
bane, A. Whitehead, S. B. McLean and John |
Fitzgerald. |

All but four of the above returned after |
the Saturday night events. Allen Mebane and |
Allen Whitehead remained until Sunday, at |
which time they each made talks at the Sun-
day School services. At vesper services Sam
Wiley and Ches. Arnold delivered messages.
These Sunday services ended one of the larg-
est and most successful deputations that has
been sent out in the past several weeks.

On Sunday, February 22, Sam Wiley and
Ches. Arnold, besides taking part in the
above deputation, made talks at 2:15 p. m. |
at the Charlotte “Y’’ to two groups of boys,
divided on the basis of age.

One other phase of this work that de-
serves special mention is the participation
in the “Come Clean” campaign that is now |
under way in Charlotte. Last Monday, March
2, eight Davidson students made talks on)
such subjects as smoking, drinking, profanity,
and others appropriate to such a campaign. |
Each day of this week, with the exception
of tomorrow, one man will be sent out from
Davidson to carry out this program, making |
talks to ‘various groups of boys in the above |
mentioned subjects.

Besides these, several other deputations
went out, all to churches in Charlotte.

New Voile (1a) enivat reports on re-
search work being done by the New. York
University school of retailing show that shop-
pers prefer to buy different articles on dif-
ferent days of the week.

Ideas, Views and Work of
3 Presbyterian Church

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of David-
son College, was appointed last week by the
American Section of the Pan-Presbyterian
Alliance as a member of a committee of
eight, composed of representatives from the
Presbyterian churches in America, which,
together with a similar committee from [Eu-
rope, will draw up a statement of the ideas,
views, and work of the Presbyterian churches

}of the world. Dr, Lingle will represent the

Southern Presbyterian Church on this com
mittee, Last week he gave a report to the
American Section which met at Washing -

Hides} ID), (e)

The Pan-Presbyterian Alliance is divided
into an American Section and a European
Section, Committees from both will co-oper:
ate in drawing up a statement which will

| be submitted to a general meeting of the Al-

liance in Belfast, Ireland, in 1933,

The statement which will be prepared will
give the Presbyterian and Reformed views
of the church, its ideas, work, and its fune-
tions. Similar statements have been given
out by other churches concerning their ideas,
The Roman Catholic Church has expressed
its duties in several papal ducydicals. The
Anglican Church held a conference and set
forth its principles in a lenghty statement.
According to Dr. Lingle, it was felt, there-

| fore, that. it would be. very appropriate for

this world-wide organization of Presbyterian
Reformed churches to make a statement, sim-
ilar to those issued by previous organizations
and assemblies, giving its views.

Other prominent Southerners connected
with the Alliance are Dr. J. M. Wells, of
Sumter, S. C., former president of Colum-

| bia Theological Seminary, who is vice-pres-
| ident of the entire Presbyterian Alliance, and
| Dr. David M. Sweets, editor of the Chris-

tian Observer, who is vice-president of the

| American Section.

Washington—(1P)—Dr. Ernst of
the University of Cologne, will come to
America this summer to serve on the faculty
of, the George Washington University sum-

sch,

mer school, lecturing in the symposium on

world affairs which the university, through
its school of government, is presenting as
the inauguration of its celebration of the
George Washington bicentennial.

Vocational Guidance |
The annual Vocational Guidance
program, sponsored by the Y. M. C.
A., will begin tomorrow night with
a lecture on “law” by Judge Cur-
rie of Charlotte, a former Davidson
man. This lecture will be held at the
Social Center and will begin at 8:30
p. m. All students interested in law

are invited,

The Y. M. C. A. plans to present
about eight other speakers at inter-
vals of a week, until the most prom-
inent professions are covered, and
students planning to enter a profes-
sion are urged to take advantage

| of this opportunity offered to them
by the “Y”.

This plan of presenting the in-
dividual speakers to the students
was substituted for that of last year
in which the various professions
were presented through this paper.

HYGIENE LECTURES WILL
BE GIVEN NEXT WEEK BY
DOCTOR EUGENE L.SWAN

Dr. Myers to Talk

at Spring Services

Dr. Charles F. Myers, pastor of the First
Presbyterian Church of Greensboro, N. C.,
will conduct the Y. M. C. A. annual spring
evangelistic services this year. These inspira-
tional services will extend over four days,
from Sunday, March 22, through Wednes-
day, March 25. Dr. Myers is well known
to the Davidson student body and several of
the students are members of his congrega-
tion, His son, Charles F. Myers, Jr., is a
member of the student body. He has spoken
here many times before and he has been
greatly enjoyed évery time he has spoken.

While here he will conduct both services
on Sunday, the morning service and the ves-
per in the evning; Monday,
Tuesday and Wednesday he will conduct the
chapel services in the morning and_ will
speak to the student body and the towns-
people on each one of these nights, probably
at 7 o'clock. Besides this he will give the

services on

students a chance for a personal interview
with him. This practice of a personal inter-
view with the speaker has been used ever
since the fall and spring services have been
conducted. In these personal interviews. the
students bring their troubles and
thoughts to the speaker and he will do all
in his power to solve them. These talks with
the speaker have been found to be very help-

can

ful, judging by the. past experiences of boys
that interviewed the speaker about their life
work, and it is hoped:that the Davidson stu
dents will take this opportunity of interview-
ing Dr. Myers.

Dr. Myers was a delegate from Greens
boro to the Congress on World Missions
held) in’ Chattanooga «from February 16
through February 19, Although he was not
called on to make a talk, however, at one
of the meetings he Was called on to lead
the in a prayer, Whilk
there he was head of one of the group con-

audience word of

ferences and held an interesting discussion
group; he was also a member of the findings
committee, which presented before the whole
congress the methods that the people thought
ought to remain, the methods that ought to
be changed, and the methods that ought to
be added to the manner of conducting the
foreign and home missions,

Davidson Delegates
Attend O.D.K. Meet

Fraley, LaFar, and Bob King Rep-
resent Delta Circle at Lexington,
Kentucky

March 3,

Circle

three
Omicron

On Tuesday, delegates
from the Delta Delta
Kappa, at Davidson College, left for Lex-

of

ington, Ky., where they. will attend the bi-
Omicron Delta Kappa’ Convention,
lasting March Sth through the 7th.
The Davidson delegates are Walter Fraley,
Dan LaFar, and Bob King.

ennial
from

Reports on the activity of the past two
years will be made by delegates from col-
leges and universities all over the South,
and various problems will be discussed. One
of these will be a discussion of certain stu-
dent problems, and matters in campus life.

Aside from the business part of the con-
vention, extensive entertainment
prepared for the guests of the Lexington
Circle (Mu Circle). The Mu Circle will spon-
sor a tour of the “Blue Grass Country,”
taking in the main surrounding points of in-
terest in the state, and in addition to this,
other entertainment has been arranged for
the delegates on their return to Lexington.

Davidson’s delegates, mentioned above,
left Tuesday and will return Monday.

has been

New York—(IP)—As many students as
ever are able to find jobs this year in spite
of the business depression, an investigation
carried on here has revealed.

Has Been Sought for a Number of
Years by the College Authorities

On Monday and Tuesday, the 9th and
10th of March, Dr. Eugene La Forrest Swan,
M.D., will be at Davidson. While here he
will deliver lectures on social hygiene. Dr.
Swan was for many years a physician in
active city practice, is a member of the Na-
tional Council, Boy Scouts of America, was
a major in the Medical Corps, U. S. A,,
during the World War, and a lecturer to
the member of the Committee of
Fourteen, New York City, director of Pine
Island Camp, a summer camp for: boys, and
has been lecturer for the American Social
Hygiene Association since 1918, It is there-
fore seen that Dr. Swan is eminently quali-
fied to speak to

troops,

a college audience on the
question of sex and social hygiene.
Davidson College has been trying for a
number of years to obtain an engagement
with Dr. Swan and feels that it is very for-
tunate that He
has spoken at a number of colleges, all of

Dr. Swan is able to come.

which were deeply impressed not only by
his splendid personality, but by the wonderful
way in which he dealt with a most. vital
topic.

Dr. will at
chapel Monday morning, where he will make
by
will

stu-

Swan's first appearance be
This will be followed
Monday and Tuesday. He
also’ have interviews with any of the

dents who wish to have them with him.
Ten Bids Issued By Two
Honorary Fraternities

Sigma Pi Sigma Bids Six Men and
Gamma Sigma Epsilon Bids
Four

a short address,

others on

fraternities have bid ten
men to their ranks in recent elections.
Six Sophomores were this week extended

bids to Sigma Pi Sigma, national honorary

Two honorary

thysics fraternity. Those receiving bids were :
C, EF. Bettis, Homer W. W.
Freeman, William 1. Holshouser, M.
McConnell, and. John B. Rice.

Sigma

Burgess, C.

D.

Pi Sigma is the mother chapter
of thé-national physics fraternity of the same
namie, was founded at Davidson Col-
lege late in 1921, and in its ten years of
growth the fraternity one of
the ranking national orders, Membership is

and

has become
based very largely on grades, an average of
95 for the first two years, in physics, gener-
ally constituting the prerequisite.

At the present time the roll of the fra-

ternity totals about twenty-seven members,
including six faeulty members, Dr. J. L.
Douglas, Dr. J. M. Douglas, Professors
Wood, Fulcher, and Mebane, and T. E.

Lothery.

The local chapter of Gamma Sigma [p-
fraternity,
nounces the election of four hew men on the
of their proficiency this subject.
These include J. A. Alexander, of Stony
Point, post-graduate student; A. W. Cowan,
Henderlite, of
Bradshaw, of

silon, national chemical an-

basis in

of Bristol, Tenn., and J. H
Gastonia, Seniors, and J. T.
New York, N. Y., member of the Junior
class.

Gamma Sigma Epsilon is also the mother
chapter of the national chemical fraternity of
that name, Davidson possessing the Alpha
Alpha chapter. The other members of the
fraternity are: W. C. Ragin, W. W. Beattie,
W. W. Fraley, and R. W. McCullough.

Columbia, Mo.—(1P)—Co-eds of the Uni-
versity of Missouri have come to the rescue
of the distressed southern cotton planter by
adopting a resolution that they make their
spring wardrobes out of cotton, including
their stockings.

Praising the co-eds in the U. S. Senate,
Senator Heflin urged all Americans to fol- ,
low their example. ;

As yet no one has spoken a piece for the
silk manufacturers.
