THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 7, 1931

f

|
tr dity
AN

‘I
Tere My

Prof. Kenneth J. Foreman Will Be
the Speaker on Home-Coming Day

Popular Davidson Professor Has Ac-
cepted Invitation to Deliver Address
to Alumni, Students and Visitors
on October 17th

FULL DAY’S PROGRAM

Cross-Country Races—An Address—
Luncheon—Football Game—Stunt
Night

Several thousand Davidson College alumni
will this week be invited to return to the cam-
pus where they spent their undergraduate days
and participate in the celebration of annual
Home-Coming Day. The event is less than ten
days off, but it has already been widely adver-
tised to the alumni, and hundreds have already
made their plans to visit their Alma Mater.
The date is Saturday, October 17th, and will
be marked by a number of important exercises
and events, largely arranged for: the benefit and
enjoyment of the returning sons of Davidson.

Prof. Kenneth J. Foreman, one of the most
popular members of the faculty and widely
sought as a speaker for many occasions, has
accepted the invitation to deliver the welcome
and address to the alumni, students, and friends
of the college. Alumni officials, working in
conjunction with college authorities, decided to
pursue the course followed last year in the
use of local faculty members, but decided to
limit it to one man this year. Prof, Foreman
was the choice, and those who have been stu-
dents under him or who have come in contact
with him, know that he will have a splendid
address for that special day in alumni affairs.
: Beginning at 11, o’clock in the morning, a full
day of events has been planned which will af-
ford amusement and entertainment for the hun-
dreds of alumni and other visitors, At 11 a. m.,
cross-country races between representatives of
Duke University and Davidson will start in

front of the stadium and conclude at the same },

place. The dual meet between the Freshmen
teams will be staged first, and immediately
after its conclusion, the varsity outfits will streak
across the country in their paces.

The crowd will then assemble in the audi-
torium to hear the address of Prof, Foreman’
and any announcements that are to be made.
This exercise will be concluded within an hour,
and at 1 o'clock there will be a luncheon in
the banquet hall of Chambers Building. Having
found the luncheon of the past several years
satisfactory to the majority, the same style of
lunch: will be served. Sandwiches, fruits and
other foods will be available to the alumni, and
it will be served in cafeteria style, permitting
the visitors to group themselves ‘as they desire.
Ladies are invited to the Home-Coming lunch-
eon. Fifty cents will be charged each person
in order to defray the cost of the luncheon,
which is arranged for the benefit of those alumni
who want to come to Davidson early and get
lunch here.

Football teams of Duke and Davidson clash
at 2:30 o’clock on Richardson Field. The grid-
iron contest on Home-Coming is always a big
featurez and the affair with Duke on October
17th will have more than the ordinary inter-
est. This will be the, second Big Five contest
for the Wildcats this season, and the Davidson
team will put up one of its greatest fights be-
cause of the added presence of so many alumni
of Davidson.

To close the day’s events, a program of mu-
sic, stunts and other amusements has been ar-
ranged for the evening, Organizations and in-
‘dividuals involved in this phase of the day’s
program have been busy preparing a high-class
entertainment for the visitors. The actual start-
ing time of this performance and the price of
admission will be announced later,

Home-Coming Day is earlier this year than

Get Ready for Home-
Coming

October 17th

NORTON’S
BARBER SHOP

ENGAGEMENTS

Wills-Morris

“Mr. and Mrs. William S. Wills, of Phila-
delphia, announce the engagement of their
daughter, Mary Ann, to Dr. Rae Henderson
Morris, of Concord, the date of the wedding
to be announced later.”

Dr. Morris graduated from Davidson in 1924,
and two years ago was graduated from Jeffer-
son Medical College at Philadelphia. He did his
interneship in Philadelphia hospitals, and this
summer began practicing in Concord. Miss Wills
is a graduate of the Friends’ Select School of
Philadelphia.

Atkins-Allison

“Mr. and Mrs, Geo. F. Atkins, of Saltville,
Va., announce the engagement of their daugh-
ter, Eleanor Countiss, to Samual Joseph Allison,
of Glade Spring, Va., the wedding to take place
on October 10th, at 7:30 p. m., at Madam Rus-
sell Church, Saltville, Va.”

Mr. Allison is a 1929 graduate of Davidson,
and after leaving here he attended the Wharton
Business School in Philadelphia. -He returned
to his home in Glade Spring, where he is in

business.

Births

1921—To Mr. and Mrs. B. W. Romefelt, of

Fair Lawn, N. J., a daughter, Margaret,

on July Ist.

1922—To Rev. and Mrs, J. M. Richards, of
Thomasville, Ga., a son, James McDowell,
Jr., on July 26th.

—To Mr, and Mrs. Robt. J. Knight, Jr.,
of Safety Harbor, Fla., a son, Francis
McKeimie, on August 9th.

usual, but a football game was selected for the
return of the Davidson alumni which will at-
tract them and conform to the wishes of many
that Davidson play a North Carolina eleven
on that date. Alumni in distant points have al-
ready expressed their intention of returning,
and there will be many others coming who do
not notify the executive secretary.

Fred L. Smyre, 1900, was recently made
president of the Gaston County Textile Manu-
facturers Association. He succeeded nother
Davidson alumnus, Sam A. Robertson, ’99,

ALUMNI PERSONALS

Alumni Marriages

Hugh M. Grey, ’18, is now connected with
Concord Knitting Company, at Concord, N. C.
Before going to Concord he was at Fort Payne,
Ala.

Dr. Robert W. McKay, ’17, of Charlotte, was
one of the speakers last Monday at the North
Carolina Urological meeting in Asheville.

John P. McKnight, ’28, who has been a mem-
ber of the Havana, Cuba, staff of the Asso-
ciated Press, has been appointed chief of the
bureau at the Cuban capital. He has
with the Associated Press only two years, and

been

immediately after his graduation was connected
with-the-Chartotte News.

Rev. O. M. Anderson, D.D., ’08, of Water
Valley, Miss., has already written that he plans
to attend the reunion of his class at Davidson
next commencement,

D. H. Howard, Jr. '28, has been given a
research fellowship at Cornell University. He
Was an assistant at the same institution Jast
year. Mr. Howard is working on his doctorate
degree in physics. For one year after eradua-
tion he was connected with the chemistry de-
partment here, and has heen at
September, 1929,

Cornell

Dr. G. Hf. Cartledge, ‘11, is now head of the
department of chemistry at the Unive sity oc
Buffalo, Buffalo, N.Y. Dr. Cartledee was head
of the chemistry department at Johns Hopkins
University for several years. He is well known
in the chemistry field and has written several
textbooks on that subject. He was at one time
connected with the same department at David-
son, taking his master’s degree and assisting
at the same time.

Five Davidson graduates this
hegan graduate work in history at four differ-
ent institutions. As stated before, R. B. Parker,
‘26, at the University of North Carolina.
Rufus F. Johnston, °29, at Carolina.
Frontis Johnston, ’30, is at Yale: Kenneth M.
Jackson, '31, is at Vanderhilts and J. C. Mat-
Sil,

College year

1s

is also

thews, is at the University of Virginia.

Alumni from distant points who have already
signified their intention of visiting Davidson
on Home-Coming Day, October 17th, include
H. Smith Richardson, '06, of New York; Dr.

W. J. Martin, Jr., ’23, of Rochester, Minn ;
J. 1. McGee, ’28, of Pittsburgh, Pa.; Wm. A.
McAulay, '25, of Louisville, Ky.; Clair D.
Regen, °25, of Franklin, Tenn., and FE. L.

Headquarters.

$25.00| Tailored Suits [$29.50
Stetson “D” Store

OPPOSITE CAMPUS
PHONE 206

Our Store is your Store, so make it your Down Town

We carry everything from head to foot
that a College Man will need.

COME IN TO SEE US

llege
‘Printin 1g

Rte,

6,400 Square

Magazines, Catalogs, Programs, New spapers, Bulletins, Handbooks,
3 Engraved Cards and Invitations.
Nothing too large or small for our plant

P. M. CONWAY, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE

Feet of

Let us serve you.

Floor Space Devoted Exclusively to Printing

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

&

Ww

since

Douglass, ’28, of Augusta, Ga. All of these
have: voluntarily written that they wil! be here,
though the official invitation is not being ex-
tended untjl the latter part of this week.

Harllee Branch, Jr., ’27, is now connected
with the law firm, Colquitt, Parker, Troutman
and Arkwright, in Atlanta, Ga., and is teach-
ing at Georgia Tech’s night school.

H. S. Davidson, Jr., ’29, who has been with
the Bell Laboratories in New York since grad-
uation, is now studying in the department of
physics at Cornell University.

John D, Gwin, ’28, underwent a serious throat
operation at his home in Greenwood, Miss.,
this summer, and remained at home three
months. He recently returned to New York
and is at 25 FE. 10th S.t

Dr. A. B. Reese, ’17, president of the New
York alumni chapter, has appointed the fol-
lowing committee to act in an advisory capacity
to any Davidson alumnus locating in New York
for the first time: W. P. Anderson, ’07, chair-
man; W. S. Dowdell, 04; C. E. Houston, ’26;
W. R. Grey, Jr., ’28, and Gardner H. Green,
29,

I.. B. Parish, ’30, is in Rahway, N. J., work-
ing as a chemist with Merck & Company. He
attended N. C. State last year, obtaining his
master’s degree there.

W. Lester Morris, ’11, was this summer made
president of the Clinchfield Company, with
headquarters in Marion, N. C. He has been
With the company since its founding 15 years
ago, and in the interim between his beginning
and his elevation to the presidency, he has been
secretary and assistant treasurer. The Clinch
field Company comprises two cotton mills.

It is now Capt. W. C. Morris, ’11. Captain
Morris was promoted from a first lieutenancy
to a captaincy this summer, and is now on duty
with the air corps at Manila, Philippine Islands.
Captain Morris began his military career as an
enlisted man in 1917, He was commissioned a
second lieutenant in 1918, and became a_ first
lieutenant in 1920,

Rev. W. A. Hafner, '94, resigned this sum-
mer as pastor of the Limestone Presbyterian
Church at Gaffney, S. C., after sixteen, years’

McGehee-Logan

“Mr, and Mrs. Claude J. Logan, of Ruther-
fordton, announce the marriage of their daugh-
ter, Margaret, to Calvin J. McGehee, of Nash-
ville, Tenn., the ceremony being solemnized at
the home of the bride’s parents on October Ist.”

After graduating from Davidson in 1928, Mr.
McGehee spent a year at the University of
Georgia. Since then he has been connected with
the Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph
Company, and at present is located in Nashville,
where they will make their home. Mrs. Mc-
Gehee was educated at Mitchell College and for
the past two years has taught in the Rutherford
County Schools.

Tate-Torrance

William Smith Tate, 1928 alumnus of David-
son and a resident of Charlotte, and Miss Ann
Eliza Torrance, of Lincoln, Nebr., were mar-
ried on October 3rd in the home of the bride’s
aunt in Charlotte. Since leaving Davidson, Mr.
Tate has been in business in Charlotte and is
a member of the firm of Tate-Brown Company.
Mrs. Tate, who is a daughter of a Davidson
alumnus, R. A. Torrance, 93, last June gradu-
ated from the University of Nebraska. Upon
their return they will reside on East Boulevard
in Charlotte.

service with that one church. Mr. Hafner re-
signed because of ill health, and will continue
to reside in Gaffney.

J. J. Summerell, ’10, who is southern rep-
resentative of Chilean Nitrate Corporation, has
been transferred to Raleigh. He was formerly
located at Greenville, N. C.

C SOIT ITI III III IIIS SN XIII III II AN 3

A. Gerskov — The Tailor

SUITS MADE TO ORDER
Cleaned 50c Pressed 25¢
Remodeled and Altered
All Work Guaranteed

Globe Pressing Company

écccaesc®

Deccccccce

eo

°

e

}

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Faculty of Distinguished Scholars
Student body drawn from forty-two Colleges and Universities.

Alumni in every Synod, in every Presbytery, and on every
Mission Field of the Southern Presbyterian Church.

Catalog and information on request.

°

@

°.

iy
¢

Shorts in a variety that will

can be done.

THE GREATEST
UNDERWEAR VALUE

You can pay more than HANES costs—but you can’t get more.
Just try to match HANES values.

There’s the Gold Label Light Weight Union Suit or Shirts and
Drawers. SAMSONBAK Athletic Union Suits with the tug-of-war
belt. That’s patented and can’t be imitated. Pull-Over Shirts and

to choose from. All at prices that will make you wonder how it

P. H. HANES KNITTING CO., Winston-Salem, N. C.
IN

ge it easy for the most fastidious
