\

NS

THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 16, 1931

‘The Davidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION_RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
eave Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina. é

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

D. GRIER MARTIN Editor-in-Chief
P. M. CONWAY Business Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF eet
E. O. GUERRANT. Managing Editor
D: .D) MCBRYDE. .....020.2............ ging Editor
R. L. McCALLIE ging Editor
C. F. MYERS... fanaging Editor
B. B. SUGG_.._ ane Athletic Editor
D, G. STEPHENSON. Feature Editor
W. W. FRANKLIN < Feature Editor
H. W. VALINE ae eras Co eg ee Review Editor
} E. LAKE... Exchange Editor
bia 3 DIA hE) 0 OF 9s Epo ea Ena te eer ee Associate Editor
W. S. AGsekebaicle asks iate Editor
WieHeeMtA LDH EW Sizcoustosiairu toga Associate , Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
ASM; SMANSON (us ccdceesicacdsicu Assistant Business Manager
A. L, MEBANE..._. ----Assistant Business Manager
sh W. WHITTED.-.. ---Assistant Business Manager
oN O Wiss dancncacoceccusnoe cine Subscription Manager
AW fel OPN SO Neves tascseu less coues seep ee gee Solicitor
}: F, DA Silane iocuss cucdcbswucue buccuacobeeececeals -Solicitor
. B. WOOTTON.... Solicitor
A. H NSON_-..._-. - ive citneaiekenau Solicitor
REPORTERS’ CLUB
Avs: WHITBH BAD Ngidessesuccls bus iule co cGuaecues President
Vite bie GAR Rie airusaccccceccekeasecuces sc dcnseeise Vice-President
Wii cM ULLISSissscce ecretary-Treasurer
R. H. ALDERMAN F. H. COVINGTON
B. B. TAYLOR . L. S. GAMBL:
G. FE, BAILEY R. E. LORRAINE
4h E. BOYD ~ FE, L. POWEL
Ss. P. PRESTON R. PRATT-THOMAS
W. R. WARD A. F..SCHEN
0. CASALI W. M..fHOMPSON
L. W. STR RINT ton W. T. THOMPSON
JACK WILLIAM ‘ J. A. HUNTER

DECEMBER 16, 1931

|

The good man prolongs his life; to be able to
enjoy one’s past life is to live thrice-—Martial.
pes

PARAGRAPHICS
This is the last issue of the Davidsonian before the
Christmas Holidays. The next one will appear

Wednesday, January 13, 1932. ;
ty jeans

One man who heard the Russian Chorus stated that
he would rather hear them than any other musical

organization in the country. There is a treat in store
for those who attend.

D

If you haven't already contributed to the “Y”
fund, do so at once!

|p es
To the Freshmen—the Christmas vesper service
will be one of the most impressive services you will
have the pleasure of attending during your college
career. Don’t miss it.
D.
Heard on the campus—suggestions for a_ successor
for “Monk”: “Tex” Tilson, Flake Laird, Walter Skid-
more, Captain Pritchett, Alonzo Stagg, Howard Jones,
Pop Warner, and Harry Mehre. (Someone inti-
mated that this last-named gentleman might be look-
ing for a position.)

D

The Davidsonian Staff extends the Season’s greet-
ings.

D
WHY GO TO COLLEGE?

This editorial does not propose to offer any
remedies for the situation it is to present, but
merely to present some facts and raise some ques-
tions.

The“results from a recent investigation made
by the Carnegie Foundation are astounding to
the average person. This investigation was made
in schools in Pennsylvania, and was in the form
of a standard test given by examiners for the
Carnegie Foundation. This test was divided into
three sections, the first being on general knowl-
edge, the second a standard intelligence test, and
the third concerning certain academic subjects.
The examination was given to the four classes of
several different colleges in Pennsylvania.

In computing the results it was found that the
college senior knows very little, if any, more than
the freshman who has just entered the institution.
On many subjects the freshmen averaged higher
than the would-be graduates. The sophomores and
Juniors were very near the average made by the
other two classes, higher in some - branches of
learning and lower in others.

If no learning results from a four-year stay at
an institution one may well raise the question,
Why go to college anyway?” Is there not some.
thing radically wrong with our educational sys-
tem? Are there other advantages to be acquired
from a college education which make up for this
evident lack of real education? Or is it true that
Americans are spending millions of dollars yearly
in a futile effort? a

here must be an alternative in education which
will give better results than the present system.
Experimenters all over the country are trying to
find this system, and the American nation eagerly
awaits the discovery. a

QUITE A SURPRISE

Davidson College received quite a surprise Sun-
day morning when it was enlightened of the fact
that Coach William Lee (Monk) Younger would
be assistant coach at Virginia Polytechnic Insti-
tute for the next five years, Especially was this‘
true since Davidson thought that “Monk” was to
be head coach here for that same period of time.

f

=

During the last several years there has been a
considerable amount of speculation on whether
Coach Younger would be at Davidson any longer.
It was known that V. P. I. was negotiating with
him, and many thought that he would accept their
offer. This fall the issue was, to all appearances,
settled ; “Monk” and “Tex” signed five-year con-
tracts. At that announcement many Davidson
alumni and friends heaved sighs of relief.

Now comes the announcement from the Vir-
ginia school that Younger will be there next year.
This leaves the Davidson authorities only a com-
paratively short time to secure a successor for him.
It will take a long time to find a mentor who
will be able to fill his shoes capably.

Younger, while at V. P. I., where he went after
attending Davidson a year, was termed “the smart-
est end in the history of V. P. I. football.” After
his graduation there he coached a year at Hamp-
den-Sydney, served three years as assistant at
Virginia Tech, and in 1923 cam eto Davidson as
head coach, For nine years he has been success-
ful in having, if not a championship team, at
least a creditable one. It is the sentiment through-
out the state that Younger is one of the smartest
coaches in Southern football.

Davidson is indeed indebted to him as a coach,
an alumnus, and a friend.

He goes to’ V. P. I. with wishes for success
from the Davidson student body, alumni, and
supporters,

~ Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

Washington and Lee

Bernie Cummins, nationally-known dance orchestra; will
be the entertainers for the Washington and Lee fancy
dress set of dances, which will take place on January 28,
29 and 30. This orchestra is well known all over the
United States, having played at Kansas City, Oklahoma
City, St. Paul, New York City, Dallas, and Cincinnati.
This band has won popularity and fame especially with
two pieces often heard over the radio, ‘Minnie the Mer-
maid,” and “Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder.”
Davidson is well acquainted with this band, although it
has never been to this campus. However, it is heard over
the radio here from Cincinnati many times.

Emory

Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary leadership fraternity,
at a, recent election tapped séven student leaders, six
Seniors and one graduate student.

Last Tuesday the Emory debaters opposed the Oxford
University of England debaters on the subject, Resolved,
“That the press is democracy’s greatest danger.” The
Emory boys upheld the negative, the foreigners had the
affirmative side. It was a no-decision contest.

7)
f Auburn

Blue Key, a national honor society, elected six Seniors
to its membership at a recent election. The purpose of
the local chapter is to further the best interest of Au-
burn, to promote fraternalism among the students there,
and to foster intercollegiate relationships. It also strives
to develop a national spirit by placing the stamp of ap-
proval upon college leaders, which will make it possible
to recognize them wherever they are found. The Blue
Key is a subsidiary to the more prominent Omicron
Delta Kappa and usually recognizes those leaders on the
campuses, where it is located, who just fail to make
O. D. K., and also other leaders on the campus.

Winthrop

The students of Winthrop had the pleasure of hearing
and seeing “Samson and Delilah,” a three-act opera,
which was presented in their auditorium on December 10.
Its leading parts were sung by Mr. Arthur Craft of
New York and Chicago, who sang the part of Samson,
and Miss Frances Hatch of Winthrop music department,
who sang the part of Delilah. One of the soloists who
was secured for this presentaiton was Mr. Ben DeLoache
of Camden, winner of the Atwater Kent contest four
years ago.

Last Tuesday Winthrop and N. C. State College held
a debate on the subject, Resolved: “That congress should

enact legislation providing for the centralized control of
industry.”

Twenty-one students from Winthrop are planning to.

attend the Quadrennial Student Volunteer Convention,
which is to be held in Buffalo, N. Y., from December 30
to January 3.

N. C. C. W.

“About this time of the year everybody gets tired of
everything and everybody else, and is on the verge of
blowing up something, no matter what, except the louder
the report, the better.

“The psychology of the whole thing makes it seem
useless to argue with homesick to buck up and bear that
Santa Claus’s coming. In fact, it is doubtful that Santa
can get enough gas to run his airplane down this far
from the pole. And if he did get here the only evidence
some will see will be the roar of the propeller as he
passes over.

“And that isn’t all. Every little atom of humanity on
this campus has the privilege of either making things
seem happier and brighter for the other little atoms, and
of making things gloomy-and desolate. When girls reach
the college age they are perfectly capable of forming their
own conclusions; consequently, it is up to all of us to
decide whether we are going to perk up and put an
optimistic attitude on this campus or whether we are
going to see which one can rake up the most things to
complain: about.

“While we're deciding, bear in mind that the spunkiest
person is going to grin and bear it. Santa Claus’s coming,
so we'd better be good and show our spunk.”

“|, .Of Ships & Shoes—
& Sealing Wax—
Of Cabbages & Kings...”

Duncan McBryd

THE EDITORIAL “OUI”

The Massachusetts Institute of Technology an-
nounces the invention of a mechanical brain whose
gray matter is mostly light. :

We have long been familiar with the kind of brain
whose gray matter is light. Some of them are so light
they won't stay down. Some even rise as high as
congress.

AN INTERESTING HOBBY
Bill Carter has an interesting hobby of collecting
thoughts and signatures of various personages of inter-
est, scattered far and wide. Here are some interesting
excerpts from Mr. Carter’s collection :
Tarzan Ranch,
California.
“__It is impossible for me to say which of my books
I prefer. Doubtless,—it is TARZAN OF THE APES.
“I am sorry that I have no slogan, no favorite quo-
tation or anything of that sort to autograph for you.
In the past I. have sometimes wondered where the
next meal was coming from, and this at such times
must have been my favorite thought.
“Yours,
Edgar Rice Burroughs.”

New York City.
“Months have passed since your letter came my way,

Thoughts have passed through my humble brain,
I mislaid your letter—oh, happy day!
Lerd knows when thoughts will come again.

The only thing I can think of, Bill, is

OOWAH! and BEST WISHES,

Bud Fisher.”

C/o Chas. Scribner’s Sons
@New York.

“You flatter me abominably. I am sure I have never
given voice to any great thought. There is one motto,
however, which, I think; might well: be followed as a
means of achieving more or less a worldly success—to-
wit :

“Keep your mouth shut and your bowels open.

“Yours,
"S. S. Van Dine.”

Park Avenue
New York.
“My dear young man:
“I have no favorite thought.

“Yours cordially,
“Irvin S. Cobb.”

Governor . W. Green, Governor of Michigan, sent his
autograph inscribed on green letterhead stationery, and
the signature in green ink.

That is only a beginning. Among other interesting per-
sonalities in the collection of autographs are to be found:
George Ade, J. P. Alley (originator of “Hambone”),
Bruce Barton, Rex Beach, Edward Bok, Calvin Coolidge,
Churchill, Harty,Fosdick, Zane Grey, Rockwell Kent,
Morley, Harry Franck, O. O. McIntyre, Edgar Lee
Masters, Frank Packard, Franklin Roosevelt, Will
Rogers, Carl Sandburg, Terhune, Billy Sunday, Marold
Wright, John Sousa, many famous aviators, as Post,
Gatty, Hester, Al Williams, and many others, even down
to and including our dear friend and radio announcer,
Grady Cole.

SO SETH YE ALL
“The Poets of today,” says a critic, “do at least put
plenty of fire into their verses.” The trouble with some
of them is that they do not put enough of their verses
into the fire.

As you will notice, no poetry appears in this column.
You remember the old saying, it’s better to practice what
you preach, than to preach what you practice.

CHRISTMAS SUGGESTIONS
CHRISTMAS COMES BUT ONCE A YEAR IS
ENOUGH. j

DO YOUR CHRISTMAS HINTING EARLY.
YOU CAN GET ALONG AT CHRISTMAS TIME

WITHOUT MISTLETOE, AND EVEN WITHOUT
HOLLY, BUT YOU MUST HAVE THE BERRIES.

THE HEIGHT OF IRONY IS TO GIVE FATHER
A BILLFOLD FOR CHRISTMAS.

A FAREWELL TO FOOTBALL :
TWO HALVES MAKE A HOLE, AND A FULL-
BACK GOES THROUGH.
—Notre Dame Juggler.

NOWADAYS A REAL FOOTBALL FAN IS ONE
WHO KNOWS THE NATIONALITY OF EVERY
MAN ON THE ALL-AMERICAN TEAM.

4

—Judge.

What Do You Think?

Thirty-one fatalities have resulted from football injuries
in the season just closing, and this number probably does
not include several others which will no doubt be re-
ported in the next two or three weeks. Coaches, officials
and players have been quick to attempt to give reasons”
for this unpleasant side of the world’s greatest game. They
have pointed out that only four of the deaths were among
players of the major teams, while the others occurred
among high schools and in games where the players often
entered the game without proper protective garments or
without proper training and supervision.

One thing that probably accounts for the increasing
deaths in football as well as an increase in the number
which receive injuries is that, to all appearances, the game
is played much harder at the present time than ever
before, despite the changes made in the rules for -the
express purpose of reducing the danger of the game.

According to John Temple Graves in the Birming-
ham Age-Herald there is no record of whether or
not business was prospering or depressed at the time
when Christ was born. A Christmas that is measured
in terms of business is bound to bring disappoint-,
ments.

Chicago and Cook County, one-time happy hunting
grounds for the Indians, now contain only 246 red men,
according to a survey just completed by the Chicago
Association of Commerce. The total population of Chi-
cago and its suburbs in the county is 3,982,123. Second
generation white Americans numbering 1,198;154 are the
greatest individual race in all Chicago polygot groups,
but those of German birth or parentage lead the other
racial entities with a total of 458,957.

Although hard to believe after a casual glance at the
great number of Chinese restaurants and laundries, there
are only 2,757 residents of Chinese birth or parentage
and only 486 Japanese. There are 246,992 American
negroes in the county, their number being less than the
436,230 Poles, but greater than the 209,592 residents of
Irish birth or parentage. ;

The numbers of the other principal racial groups as
tabulated by the Association of Commerce are: Italy,
208,356; Russia, 177,876; Czecho-Slovakia, 172,537; Swe-
den, 161,591; England, 132,657; Canada, 89,098; Lithu-
ania, 72,146; Austria, 62,459; Norway, 60,517; Yugo-
slavia, 36,569, and the Netherlands, 34,787. France is far
down on the list with only 17,998.

The small towns get some praise from Zona Gale,
novelist. She gives expression to some truths which
small town residents who get out and away at
times know, but which are not known by residents
of the big cities who do not come into contact with
the inhabitants of the smaller places.

“The small town today,” she said, “is a place where
one can find plenty of leisure, where people talk
about their gardens, where children have a place in
the home, where members of the family come into
intimate contact with each other, and where there is
not that air of breathlessness that plants one im-
pression on top of another so fast that all of. them
are lost.

“And as for gossip, there is no more of it on Main
Street, ‘Davidson, N. C.,’ than on Fifth Avenue, New
York.

“I think it is a good idea, however, for a small
town resident to come to a place like New York
once a year in order to keep abreast of what is hap-
pening..”

Here is a bit of advice on Christmas giving which the
Rev. Charles K. Gilbert, social service secretary.of the
diocese of New York, has given:

Give what the recipient needs most, not what you like
best.

Give presents to the children of the needy through their
families or known friends rather than publicly through
strangers.

Give families the chance to open your packages in pri-
vate; otherwise your generosity will be spoiled.

Give with discrimination, Prevent duplication. Indis-
criminate giving is worse than no giving because it tends
to pauperize, embarrass or degrade the recipient.

This column wishes you a Merry Christmas.

PARASITE—THE LARGE LOUTISH-LOOKING
FOOTBALL PLAYER WHO PILES ON TOP OF
THE OTHER TWENTY-ONE MEN FOR EFFECT,
AFTER THE PLAY IS COMPLETE.

—Detroit News.

Please be careful during the holly-days, and don’t take
any chances. Not on your life! Remember luck doesn’t
last. A rabbit's foot is a poor substitute for horse sense.
If a black cat crosses the path of a motorist, it’s a lucky
cat. And remember the guy who once stooped to pick
up a horse shoe on the road and a car came along and
knocked him over the fence into a field of four-leaf
clovers. :

GOOD BYE AND GOOD LUCK
YORE’S AS OF YORE :

bl My Wild Irish Arose
(to the occasion)
“How did you get that black eye, Mrs. O’Donnell?”
“Well, sir, me ’usband came out of prison on ’is birth-
day.”
“Yes.”
“And I wished him many happy returns.”

