THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 26, 1931

DR. THOMPSON
(Continued from page 1)
acter, capacity, consecration, and firm con-
victions. He added that other attributes that
were a great help were thoughtfulness, hu-
mility, courage, love of fellowman, and the
possession of a sense of humor.

At this juncture he asked where men who
met these severe requirements come from
except from a school: like Davidson. He
said that there was as much sheer masculin-
ity at Dayidson as any other college that
he knew anything about. He commented fa-
vorably on the democratic spirit that pre-
vails on the campus and the feeling of
friendliness that is prevalent.

- Dr. Thompson did not try to influence men

to go to the foreign fields, but asked those
who felt that they were called into this pro-
fession to say, “Here am I Lord, send me.”
He deplored the fact that there are people
in some parts of the world who have never
had a revelation or conception of God or
any experience with His transforming pow-
er. He said that he could heartily agree with
Stanley Jones in that “he did not see how
any man east or west could get along even
fairly well without Jesus Christ.”

Dr. Thompson said that Christ needs Da-
vidson men to serve as feet for Him, as
this is the only way the spreading of the
Gospel can be accomplished. He continued
along the same tfain of thought with the
statement that Jesus was a universal panacea
who could heal all our wounds no matter
of what nature they happened to be.~In clos-
ing, he made the wish that at Davidson there
would be a wide debarkation across pathless
seas to undreamed of shores, where the Lord
reigns supreme.

MID--WINTER ASSEMBLAGE
(Continued from page 1)
the college finances are in a satisfactory con-
dition.
The Trustees were the guests of the fac-
ulty at a luncheon given in the banquet hall
of Chambers Building.

WILDCAT BASEBALL
(Contnued from page 3)
ent, which gives no first rate performers
among. the alternates:

At present there appears to be only five
twirlers with the possibility of a sixth be-
fore the season opens. McAllister Thomp-
son and Croker are the only left overs
from last year’s varsity squad but a few
aces of the freshman nine are expected
to go good this year in the varsity. These
are Pearce and Baily. None of these
were star performers last year but all
showed a great deal of promise and there
is a possibility of two or more coming out
this year in good form. A sixth, Cathey,
is uncertain about his eligibility, since he
was here at Davidson a number,of years
ago and has returned this year to fake up
some M. A. work.

Capt. Armfield will head the receiving
staff which at present is composed of him-
self and Whitley a recruit from the fresh-
nian ranks of last year. Armfield turned
in creditable work last. year and is ex-
pected to go even better this spring.
Whitley held down the backstop position
last year in a steady style for the fresh-
men, though never sensational he showed
marked improvement during the season.

It would be a hard job to try to pick a
probable starting infield for the coming
season but two regulars have about
cinched their jobs. Proctor will be in all
likelihood resume his old post at first base
and Goodson is slated to take the keystone
bag again. Both of these men were stal-
warts on last year’s team and will aid
greatly in building a team this year. Both
ate above the average fielders and both
Nave batting averages better than most.

For the other two infield posts there are
four men to fight it out between them.
Rarnhardt and McMillan were regulars
last year but two sophomores are slated
to give them a run for their positions.
Mills and Peabody were towers of
strength on the freshman nine last year
and both are going to be heard from this
year. It is entirely possible that Mills
will be shifted to the hot corner though
short stop is his regular stamping ground.
He has a strong arm, is very fast, all of
which goes to make a good third sacker.
Peabody is keystoner by trade and might
be left there as an understudy to Good-
son or he might be shifted to work with
McMillan or Barnhardt for one of these
other two positins. .

Out in the garden there are Covington
and Mathis from the varsity with Brad-
sher a sophomore slated to take a posi-
tion with them. All three of these take a
healthy swat at the ball and should de-
velop into first class fly chasers. Others to
try-out in the outfield will be Morrison,
J. G., Morrison, J. D., and Howard.

MISSIONS CONFERENCE
(Continued from page 1)

The missionary message is a message of the
life and sacrifice of Jesus Christ.

Commission number two, on “The For-
eign Field—Our Missionary Responsibility,”
with Dr. D. W. Richardson, chairman, was
also endorsed, with the following things
stressed: We should take the world as a
whole as our field, moving forward as quick-
ly as we are able with the present responsi-
bility and financial conditions taken into
consideration.

As regards the commission on “The
Church at Home—How Can It Meet This
Responsibility?” with Dr. H. W. DuBose,
chairman, the individual responsibility of
everyone in the church was stressed. Much
the same suggestion was made on the com-
mission on “The Pastor and Missions—His
Place of Leadership,” with Dr. Wm. M. An-
derson, chairman, with the conference feel-
ing that the pastor was the leader of the
church in foreign missions, but that every
individual should do everything in his power
to help the pastor and to assume more and
more of his responsibility.

In the commission on “The Offering of
Possessions—Adequately Financing the En-
terprise,” with Dr. A. S. Johnson, chair-
man, the following thing was suggested:
That we should increase the number of mis-
sionaries by fifty each year, and that we
should increase the amount of money to for-
eign missions $125,000 per year. The con-
gress made no definite action on this, al-
though it recommended that the per cent
of appropriations to foreign missions in-
crease.

The commission on “The Offering of Life
—The Missionary Recruits Past, Present,
and Future,” with Dr. W. T. Thompson,
chairman, was endorsed, with the following
things emphasized: There is a definite need
in our church for more missionaries. The
missionaries should measure up to certain
standards, and the foreign mission board
should be allowed to call its missionaries
if necessary.

After the report of the findings commit-
tee there was a pageant presented, entitled

Soph. Week-End

The Sophomore Week-End will
begin Saturday afternoon, March
14th, at 3:00 o’clock with a free pic-
ture-show. Following the show, at
5:15 there will be a reception at the
“Y” Social Center. At 6:30 there
will be a banquet in the dinng hall
of Chambers. It has not yet been
decided whether the entertainment
at 8:15 will be furnished by Win-
throp girls or by local talent.

The entertainment committee is
made up of Paul Brown, Reeves
Pope, Don Brandon, and Bob Mc-
Callie.

“His Presence,” by Lucile DuBose. It con-
tained a cast of 230 characters and showed
how Christ was with the missions of the
church at home and abroad in the past, and
will be in the future.

DR. HENDERSON
(Continued from page 1)
made to identify science with morality, then
the-art of science will be broken down. -

“Questions of morality,” he continued,
“are problems for mankind to settle. Explo-
sives that in time of war can wipe out whole
cities probably are no more destructive than
they are beneficial in time of peace when
they can be put to uses that aid in building
industries.”

It is a well known fact that science is
head and shoulders above all other branches
of knowledge, the reason for this is because
the scientists always work with vigor and
patience to solve their many problems, ac-
cording to the speaker. He urges that all the
other educational branches speed up in their
work so they can be in the same range as
science.

Dr. Henderson named three of the great-
est scientists of the present day and dis-
cussed them briefly. Thomas A. Edison,
Madame Curie, and Einstein were the sci-
entists named and discussed. He classed Edi-

son as a natural wizard who can make the
phenomena of the earth do his bidding.
Madame Curie, who discovered radium, was
classed as one who could work out the the-
ory, take it into the laboratory, and apply
it to find out nature’s secrets. Professor
Einstein was called the only universe build-
er since Sir Isaac Newton. Dr. Henderson
explained to the audience the Einstein the-
ory of relativity. He concluded his speech
was these words, “He (Einstein) is now
working for a merger between the universal
law of gravity and the law of magnetism.”

I. R. C. MAKES PLANS
(Continued from page 1)

church have now ceased to attend church,
to pray, and to visit God. The Communist
party, which is in power, though not actu-
ally prohibiting church attendance, has
passed severe measures which are very hos-
tile to any form of religion. The old orthodox
Russian church, which was such a famous
institution in past centuries, has been al-
most completely done away with. The Bol-
shevists center their efforts on the youth
and it is a significant and alarming thing
that the whole generation of young people
is growing up with the idea that religion is
a monstrous unreality. Social service is the
chief means of multiplying a variety of ap-
peals that religion had made to man instead
of prayers, fasting, lighting of candles, or
retirement to a monastery, all of which argue
the Russians, aside from being of no prac-
tical value, draw a man into himself, his
own glorification, he will give himself to
building things for the new society, new
factories, homes, cities, and schools. They
insist that science is the key to the ministry
of life, its origin and purpose. Never in the
history of religion has Christianty faced a
foe so determined, energetic, and formidable,
as it is now encountering in Russia.

It is the institution of private property
on which the Bolshevists have centered their
fiercest attack. “The theory of the Com-
munist,” says the Communist Manifesto,
“may be summed up in one sentence; the
abolition of private property; by private
property they mean primarily the means of
production. Property for the strictly personal

Makers of Camels
Offer Many Prizes

Contest Inaugurated on February
25, by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.

A contest, offering $50,000 in prizes, was
inaugurated on February 25 by R. J. Rey-
nolds Tobacco Co., makers of Camel ciga-
rettes, with ‘special announcements in this
and other college periodicals. Eight days are
allowed for submission of answers, the con-
test closing at midnight on March 4.

Prizes will be awarded for. the best an-
swers to the question: “What significant
change has recently been made in the wrap-
ping of the Camel package, containing twenty
cigarettes, and what are its advantages to
the smoker?” Answers are limited to 200
words in length, must be written on one
side of the paper only, and are to be mailed
to the Contest Editor, R. J. Reynolds To-
bacco Company, Winston-Salem, N. C.

First prize is $25,000, with second and third
prize of $10,000 and $5,000, respectively. Nu-
merous smaller prizes will also be awarded.
Judges of the contest are Ray Long, Presi-
dent of the International Magazine Company
and Editor of Cosmopolitan magazine; Roy
Howard, chairman of the board of the
Scripps-Howard newspapers, and Charles
Dana Gibson, internationally known artist
and publisher of Life magazine.

The contest is part of what advertising
experts declare is one of the most intensive
advertising campaigns ever staged. Practi-
cally every daily and county seat weekly
newspaper in the country will be used, as
well as college periodicals and financial
newspapers. This campaign is to be followed
by an aggressive advertising drive through
newspapers, magazines, radio and outdoor
display. ud

use is the only kind which one may legiti-
mately acquire. It is the accumulation of
property to be exploited for gain that the
Communists wish to outlaw. Such property
they pronounce the chief scourge of man-
kind, the cause of wars, poverty, crime, and
internal conflicts.

© 1931, Laocerr & Mruns Tosacco Co.

Where will the two slanting
lines meet if the shorter one
is continued? Good eyes
are needed for this one.

YOUR EYES MAY FOOL YOU

BUT

MILDER...AND
BETTER TASTE

YOUR TASTE (/e/I/s the Truth /

