THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 2, 1931

Christian Endeavor

Holds First Social

The Davidson | Christian Endeavor Society, |
on last Wednesday evening, November 25th, }
at 7:30 o'clock, held its first social of the year.
Many of the members were present. The rea-
son for this social was to arouse interest in the
society.

The first part of the evening’s entertainment
consisted of games of, various among
which were: Ghosts, Barber Shop, and Derby
Chase. The most outstanding game of the eve-
ning was a new game, Murder. There were
slips of paper passed among the audience on
one of which was marked X. This was the
murderer. The lights went off and he murdered
someone. There was a detective who tended to
solve the mystery with all the clues he could
gather from the crowd. It was very thrilling
and unusual. To clap the climax, there was a
promenade which was enjoyed by all.

Delicious\cocoa with marshmallows and as-
sorted cookies were served.
throughout the social.

sorts,

Songs were sung

Literary Societies Hold
Various Programs Dec. 1

The Eu and Phi Literary Societies held their |
weekly meeting last Tuesday night, December 1.

The Eu program was as follows: “My Trip
Through Europe,” a talk by Sam Nickey; a
reading by Jack Williams, Jr.. and “Current
Events,” by Edward MeNair.

The Phi Society held a debate on the ques
tion of Birth Control. The affirmative side was
taken by D. D. McBryde, Will) Rachel, and
Ross. Stuart Noblin, Wilbur Fugate, and Felix |
Gee ‘supported the negative. The debate proved
to be interesting and presented much food for |

, thought. The judges decided in favor of the
*~ affirmative side by a slight margin.
Following the debate a discussion was led |

Hood, and Foreman. |

Many points were brought out by members of |
the society that were not brought out in the |
debate.

The society has planned three meetings in|

by Professors Jeaty,

advance. The topics of these future meetings |
are as follows: “Five Great*® Philosophies of
From Letters of Robert E. |
Lee,” and “Readings From Autograph Collec- |
tions.” |

Life,” “Readings

“HAUNTED HOUSE” |
TO BE STAGED)
|
|
|
|

(Continued from page 1)

mystery was intended as their first three-act, |
the present play combines pleasingly a suffi- |
ciency of farce with the ever-thickening mys- |
tery of Isabel Westley’s death. With the proper |
stage effects, it bids fair to be the most enter- |
taining story ever put on. by ,the Davidson
dramatic club. :

The question of taking it to other towns and |
Colleges presents difficult problems, owing chief- |
ly to the fact that the Masquers are dependent |
on their own means and resources for scenery
and transportation. The Masquers themselves |
have suggested that it. would not be amiss for
some beneficent alumnus to make a contem-
plated endowment to this particular phase of
campus activity, than which no other club
needs it more. |

To return tothe play, the cast are partic- |
ularly well adapted to their parts. Miss- Mattie
McLemore can without difficulty impersonate
the sweet and charming young bride of Jimmy
Simpson, that is, the part taken by Jimmy
Simpson. Miss Carrie Lena Moffett has lived,
oh so many years (ten, is it?) with her fiction-
mad husband, Desmond Duncan, who, having
had dreams of being a poet, claims to have sold
himself for a mess of pottage.

Alas for the newlyweds! They started aright
on their “great adventure, with the blue of the
sky, the moon on the water, the scent of the
flowers and the song of the birds,” but for the
OTHER WOMAN. O accursed triangle! Isabel
Westley enters, in the person of Bill Mcll-
Winen. O Isabel, we beg of you, do not spoil |
their bliss, their new-found happiness! (Wheth-

er she heeds this plea will be left for the |
reader to ascertain on tHe night of December
11th.) |

Three difficult character parts are taken by |
Reeves Pope, Gordon Wood and Dave Mc-|
Lain. Especially notable of these is McLain, |
whose characterization of Grogan, the New
York detective, leads one to suppose that he |
himself has been on the force in that metrop-
olis. His remark, with reference to the various |
murders committed in York, that “we
don’t know nothin’ about none of ’em,” is not |
without satire. |

Jack Williams, J. G. Womble and _E. A.|
Hancock take respectively the roles of milkman,
father, and chauffeur.

New

mind and the stores of human knowledge about |

|
|
|
Science is merely the skilled used of the|
any problem.—Max Eastman. |

FIFTEEN STUDENTS TRY

(Continued from page 1)
process is not so much an examination as it
is merely a conference.4These conferences will
determine the two men who are to represent
North Carolina in the final selection at Atlanta,
which will take place on December 7 and 8.

The entire United States divided into
eight districts. North Carolina is in the district
which meets at Atlanta. At this meeting there
will be four men selected as Rhodes scholars.
These will be selected from the entire group of
twelve which have been sent from the six states
comprising this district in which North Caro-
lina is located.

Up to the present time Davidson has been
unusually successful in placing Rhodes scholars,
having had six in all. The last of these was
Dean Rusk, of the class of ‘31. He is enrolled
at St. John’s College, the one which Dr. Vowles
attended as a Rhodes scholar. He is at present

is

Death of
A. J. Graham, Sr.

A. J. Graham, Sr., father of Allen
Graham of the Senior class, died very

suddenly of a heart attack Sunday
night at his home in Greenville, S. C.
Mr.
broker. Allen was with his family at

Graham was a retired‘ cotton

the time.

taking up the study of modern history, anc. is
also engaging in Rugby football, tennis, and ts
bicycling throughout the country on sightsce
ing trips.

Davidson will be presented at the sections!
trials this year by Roger Enloe, Charles W
John D. McConnell, Ecward  ¢

Harrison,

Dwelle, Jr.. Samuel S. Wiley, D. Moftiett Me-
Connell, Donald M. McQueen, H. H.
J. D. Dunklin, John Henry MeKinnon, fr.,
James A. Abernathy, IIIf, David Grier Martin,
Murray Christian, Thomas Hill, and
\W. McLean.

Vhomas

| WAKE FOREST DEFEATS ’CATS

(Continued from page 1)

combined to score the tone touchdown ef the
afternoon
Following the kickoff Bradley intercepted

| Pearce’s pass on the first) play

133. Once more the Deacons’ seemed to be able
to run at will through the Davidson team until
the whistle blew with Wake Forest in) pos-

j session of the ball on the Davidson one-yard
| line with two downs to go.
| First downs were divided evenly, each team

jringing up eight.

The line-ups were as follows :

Haris, |

on Davidson's |

| Wake Forest Position Davidson
Brogden JP ADY Raker (C)
Williams L.T. Wagner
Dupree LG. Mathis
H. Gardner (C) Center B. Gardner
| Kessler RG. Conway
Webb RT. Whitfield
, Green RE. Brown
| Hutchins Q.B. King
| Wilson L.H. Pearce
Peters R.H. Mills
, Bradley F.B. McQueen
| Subs: Wake Forest, Owen for Kessler, Gard-

Iner for Cornwell, Hipps for Wilson, Lawhorn
for Peters, Dudley for Green, R. Edwards for
Lawhorn, Phillips for Gardner, Connelly for
Owen, Russell for Edwards. Davidson, «Pea-
Jhody for Pearce, Barrier for Conway, Flinn for
McQueen, Barrier for Mathis,. Johnston for
Brown, West for- Flinn, McElrath for Wagner,
O'Keefe for King.

“You needn't tell me

—I know Camel is

the fresh cigarette!’

BB RESHNESS

~<that’s the thing!

AMELS are never parched or toasted

Have you noticed the new trend in cigarettes? —
freshness is the popular thing.

That’s because a fresh cigarette, as demonstrated
by Camels, is something smokers have discovered as
better than anything they ever tried before.

Camels are fresh in the Camel Humidor Pack be-
cause they’re made fresh to start with — blended of
choice, delicately mild, sun-ripened tobaccos in which
the natural moisture and fragrant flavors are vigi-

lantly safeguarded.

The tobaccos in Camels are never parched or toasted

— the Reynolds method of scientifically applying heat

guarantees against that.

That’s why we say with so much assurance that

Camels are truly fresh. They’re made fresh — not
parched or toasted — and then they’re kept fresh in

the Camel Humidor Pack.

Try Camels’ freshness for a change. Switch over

for just one day, then change back — if you can.

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, Winston-Salem, N. C.

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company's Coast-to-Coast Radio Programs

CAMEL QUARTER HOUR, Morton Downey,
Tony Wons, and Camel Orchestra, direc-
tion Jacques Renard, every night except
Sunday, Columbia Broadcasting System | cept Sunday, N. B. C. Red Network

direction Paul Van

See radio page of local newspaper for time

Don’t remove the moisture-proof wrapping from your package of Camels
after you open it.-The Camel Humidor Pack is protection against per-
fume and powder odors, dust and germs. In offices and homes, even in the
dry atmosphere of artificial heat, the Camel Humidor Pack delivers;
fresh Camels and keeps them right until the last one has been smoked

4

PRINCE ALBERT QUARTER HOUR, Alice Joy,
“Old Hunch,” and Prince Albert Orchestra,

Loan, every night ex-

~—

