N

THE DAVIDSONIAN,

JANUARY 8, 1931

Che Dabidsontan

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents. per copy; $2.00 the Col-
is iate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
_Ottice, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

WILSON
A. CANNON

fenton

EDITORIAL STAFF

E. C, A terme JR. Managing Editor
Ww. Ss. L Managing Editor
D. G. MARTIN ae -Managing Editor
WH MATTIE W Socccee pe ccc ecco esac cea Sports Editor
A. H. ...News Editor
V. M. Feature Editor
NoMan RATES --Feature Editor
A. Le eee Seasideuiccnuuvecsuccaks --Review Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN... -Associate Editor
(ee BLACK.... Associate Editor
. C. RAGIN... .---Associate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
P. M. Vcacscocscescaean. Assistant Business Manager
A. J. B -Assistant Business Manager
J. B. Assistant Business Manager
A. G. Subscription Manager
Py By BROWN issssscccs ccc cstss ccc cccpeccacccsscccqauns Solicitor
R. W. .--Solicitor
A. M. ---Solicitor
A. L. MEBANE ... ---Solicitor
WORT AMORROW cccbssceccsdocusacuasus dnaussesabseekes! Solicitor
Ss. S.
D. G.
A. H.
R. H. ALDERMAN J. M. OW.
J. G. BERRY G. E. BAILEY
A. R. BIRD }: E. BOYD
N. B. DICKS . G. DUNKLIN
E. O. GUERRANT W. T. HANCOCK
. E, LAKE R. L. McCALLIE
. C. MATTHEWS Cc. F. MYERS
V. F. MULLISS H. F. NICHOLS
G. P. PARDINGTON S. P. PRESTON
C. W. F. ano B. B. SUGG
B. B. TA W. B. WARD
J. R. Miri © D. D. McBRYDE

JANUARY 8, 1931

It is not the clear-sighted who lead the world.
Great achievements are accomplished in a
blessed, warm, mental fog.

Joseph Conrad.

SUGGESTIONS
One could hardly liken the night before school
opens to the night before Christmas,
creature was stirring.” Those who lost sleep can
blame it all on train schedules.

“when not a

Athletes hie themselves to the gymnasium and
physical education building as a result of damp
tennis courts and fields,

We wonder how long it will be before some
dime novelist or song writer tries to capitalize on
the recent episode of Otto Wood.

To racketeers, we mean those who make racket.
we would suggest that there are a few, very few
perhaps, who are trying to study in advance for
examinations.

For the first time Davidson is going to have a
Rhodes Scholar playing a forward position on her
basketball team. Prospects are good with three
letter men back.

Senior blazers are like Chrysler automobiles
used to be. Every time one comes out it is a dif-
ferent model.

A TRITE CUSTOM

Trite and hackneyed as the subject may
sound or may be the time has come when
young men’s (and old men’s too) fancies
turn to resolutions and determinations to
make the oncoming year a more successful
one than that which has just ended. No one
will dispute the efficacious qualities of such
mental stimuation. It does one good to
think about such matters even if he is never
abe to fulfill his intent.

Occasionally resolutions develop into con-
tinued action, We dare say, however, that
the greatest number of them do not. At first
sight the reasonable course would be not to
make any such thought-compelling reflec-
tions, although it would appear that there is
a still more simple expedient. Indeed to
carry out only a few fundamental resolu-
tions, and the result may be ‘astonishing.

Advice is psychologically lost at the time
it is given; the average human mind sets it-
self against any effort to direct it or dictate
to it. The only way to put an idea across is
to fool the subject of thé advice into think-
ing that the whole thing is an original idea
with him. That is hard to do on paper.

At any rate, the average individual of
homo sapiens on the Davidson campus is
capable of improvement. ,Ofttimes only a
gentle push is needed to start the ball of
mental agitation in motion. What we are
trying to do is to push it off the brow of the
hill, not to roll it up the other side. The di-
rection it will take is somewhat optional,
but examinations are exactly a week and a
day in the offing.

| THE CALL TO ARMS
For the first time since we have been here,
as far as memory is correct, it. has been
‘necessary for coaches to make a direct ap-

‘peal to the-student body for aspirants who

|
|
|
|
|
|

|

|
|
|

seek varsity athletic distinction. Never be-
fore has there been such a dearth in wrest-
ling candidates. At least such was the im-
pression cast in chapel last Saturday morn-

ing.

We do not attempt to attribute the blame
for oa situation on any particular factor.
We hope that by the time this appears it
will have been an unnecessary alarm that
has risen in the minds of many students. It
is the more alarming because there can be
no definite reason for the apparent depar-
ture from history of past wrestling seasons.

Although not as successful as it might
have been from the standpoint of victories
in dual meets, the past season gave David-
son two state champions in Conway and
Warren. Conway is the captain of the team
for the coming year. Surely wrestling is
holding its own along with other branches
of intercollegiate athletics.

If the close observer is not wholly satis-
fied with last year’s record he can go back
to the time of Garrison, and before that to
Frierson, Hill, Flythe, and others for records
that add elory to Davidson athletic history.
To those who could possibly doubt the ex-
citement and glamor attached to the. game
we advise that they consult some Senior
who watched Garrison wrestle Abbot of
Carolina. More than half of the referee’s
time was taken up with silencing frantic
students and fans.

Any man who goes out for the team reg-
uli arly can be assured of learning something
about a science which can certainly do him
no harm and which can prove of great bene-
fit. Coach Unger, in the short time that he

| has been here, has proved himself a wrestler

of no mean ability. What is more, he can
get it across to his team. The man who
went through a season of “Big Ten” wrest-

ling with the results he achieved must have |

both the ability and theory.

We sincerely hope that this comment will
prove superfluous; that the Athletic Asso-
ciation will have to provide more mats for
the contestants. There are enough men in
the student body to provide a first rate team,
one that will stand along side of any other
in North Carolina or the Southeast.

RESPECT FOR PROPERTY
Regardless of the other attributes, physi-
cal or mental or moral as the case may be,

| a man has never been lessened in the sight

|

| brunt of badly directed snow balls.

|

of others by having consideration and _ re-
spect for property that is not his own. One
is at times doubtful of the real worth of the
person who uses his own things unwisely
and. wastefully, but there is never much
question about invadng on the prvileges of
others.

Man is generally acknowledged to be en-
dowed with certain inalienable rights, rights
which cannot be taken away’ trom him.
They are: The right of personal security or
life; the right ot personal liberty; and the

(right to hold property. One hears a great
deal. about invasion of the first two mem-
tioned above. The last named is sometimes
overlooked, forgotten, or disregarded. It
makes little ditterence whether the property
is owned by an indivdual or a corporation;
it belongs to somebody, and that person has
a right to it and its protection.

In past years at Davdson there have been
few snows that the wndow panes and glass
fixtures about the college did not bear the
There

| have been literally scores of glasses broken,

and these have had to be replaced. The sig-
nificant fact is that the students are the ones
who pay for this damage. If the desire to
crash glass becomes utterly uncontrollable
to some individual we suggest that he go to
a hardware store, or picture-framing estab-
lishment, purchase ‘himself the desired
amount of glass and break it to his heart’s
content,

That, we repeat, was the usual course of
procedure in past years. We believe it is a
sign of distinct progress when we learn
from Supervisor of dormitories that not a
single pane was broken during the snow be-
fore the holidays. We are going to give
everybody the benefit of the doubt and not
say anything about the proxmity of the hol-
‘iday season having anything to do with it.

Finally, whether the foregoing words
make any appeal or not, there is a strong
business incentive to maintain college prop-

| erty intact. A damage fee is included in the
| tuition paid by every student; it is supposed

to cover accidental breakage. The balance
left after the costs of damage have been
deducted is returned to the depositor. It
comes in handy, because it is returned at a
convenient time.

What Do You Know
About?

1. How to be a success as a journalist?
2. Resolutions that really solve?

3. A three way split?

4. The championship scrap?

It has been said about thirty American men
in the last one hundred and fifty years or so that
their road to fame “led to the White House.” It
seems now, however, that for those who can
capitalize on it, there is a very successful road on
beyond the White House open to those who have
either been residents in Washington or aspirants
to that abode.

We speak of the journalistic field. The announce-
ment that Al Smith, four-time governor of New
York and late Presidential nominee of the Demo-
cratic party, will write a weekly article for a
number of newspapers has caused much comment
both on his entrance into the field and that of
former President Coolidge. Coolidge has been con-
tributing his two hundred words or so to a num-
ber of daily papers for several months, while Smith
is starting his with the New Year.

30th men are undoubtedly “cleaning up on
their venture, in spite of the fact that the Coolidge
daily opinion is at times very monotonous read-

ing. He is getting two dollars a word for his
articles, which vary in length from 150 words—
the minimum under his contract—to 200 words,

which is his maximum, A little figuring will see
that the $350 per day or over which this nets him
will keep him and his wife in the simple neces-
sities of life for quite a while.

Smith’s weekly articles will run about fifteen
hundred words. His emolument has not been
made public, but we are sure it is worth his while.

Young man, be an ex-President and succeed!

“Each year twenty-five per cent of the Fresh-
man class at Harvard enjoy the first year so much
that they repeat it.”President Lowell of Harvard.

Frank McNinch, citizen of Charlotte who was
so recently made a member of Hoover's Federal
Power Commission—although not without a fight
in the Senate—has immediately jumped into the
day’s news as a member of that body. It seems
that three fellow members of the commission
were under fire for the firing of three employees
of the department, and Mr. McNinch comes
through with a neat bit of politics that stalls off
the hounds baying after them’ for awhile.

Messrs. Bonner, executive secretary; Russell,
counsel; and King, chief accountant of the com-
mission were ousted from their posts by the newly
named five members. This brought a storm of
protest upon the heads of the five, which, to say
the least, was beginning to be uncomfortable. So
Mr. McNinch puts in a resolution, which is passed
by the other four members, that the deposed em-
ployees be asked to put in their applications for
their old jobs, along with the other new officers
who are to be selected.

This wise move silenced all criticism and in no
way obligates anyone to restore the jobless to
their jobs. Only one hitch is noted—not one of the
three men have been anxious to take .up the op-
portunity,

(ie

“After a horse, man is the most stupid thing
created.”—H, L. Mencken.

Two enterprising mathematicians, not being sat-
isfied with the opinion of one so learned and high
in the mathematical field as Descartes, have re-
cently announced that they have found a way to
trisect the arc with a ruler and compass, a feat
declared impossible by the learned Descartes some
three hundred years ago.

This interesting feat has long been a puzzler to
the geometrists. The ancient Greeks, past masters
of the science, said it was impossible to divide the
arc into three equal parts with the compass and
straight edge, and Descartes substantiated their
statements. Later, modern scientists did it with
complicated apparatus.

However, this present effort is the first time it
has been done with the every-day implements of
the geometrist. And they refuse to tell how it is
done until the copyright is granted to them.

Aren't we glad we have passed plane geometry!’

Just another theorem to learn.

“I always like to dip my bread in the coffee, but
the Queen doesn’t like it.”—King Albert of Bel-
gium.

1930 was a year which can be remembered as
almost completely lacking of excitement in the
heavy-weight realm of fistiana. Schmeling, al-
though the nominal title holder, retired to Ger-
many and has kept out of the way of such en-
terprising challengers as Stribling and Sharkey.
Really the only fight worth looking at was the
Ingram contest to see whether we should get our
shaves out of the tube or the jar. And now that’s
all over too. Whom did you have your money on?
We have a sneaking notion that it is going to end
in a draw.

“Women marry because they don’t want to
work.”—-Mary Garden.

MUSINGS 9% “e

,MATADOR, ”

VEREEN ~4,\ 50
BELL ame ee
PERSONAL MENTION AND SOCIETY

Mr. Joe Joe, the dog-faced boy, has at last gone

home after making himself a nuisance at the home
of Mr. and Mrs. J. T. Sumter for more than a

week.

The many friends of Miss Suzanne Smith will
breath sighs of relief when they learn that she has
finally caught the wealthy scion from Artichoke.
They will be married in the parsnip as soon as
Miss Smith can overhaul her wedding gown.

Mr. K. K. Klan is in the local hospital where he
is being treated for an acute New Year’s celebra-

tion.

Mr. and Mrs. D. B. Dooley have gone to Europe
and expect to see the “Fall of Rome,” by Floyd

Gibbons. They will remain abroad until late in
Mrs. Dooley’s inheritance.
Miss Pinta Maria, famous actress, has been

asked to participate in the activities at Pandora
University where she will break the first date of
the new season.

Mr. F. H. Ruckus is in the local hospital suffer-
ing from injuries sustained in a violent holocaust
with Ravli Spinola, truck driver.

Ravli Spinola, truck driver, now gets his mail at
the county Bastille, following a mild disagreement
with Mr. F. H. Ruckus.

Mr. C. B. Bog has left his wife and it is rumored
that he will sue for a divorce. He intends to sue on
the grounds of non-support.

Mr. Sandy McArthur has been hailed before the
bar of Justice. It is charged that he told his tiny
child that there was no Santa Claus.

Mr. B. B. Bang has been in jail now for two
weeks following an argument with T. D. McCoy,
policeman. It is stated, that the argument started
when» Mr. Bang told Officer McCoy that he
couldn't put him, Mr. Bang, in jail.

Mr. B. A. Gaston is staying in the Plaza Hotel
until his wife’s mother completes her visit with
his wife.

K. S. Slater is at home after a week of “rough-
ing it” on the river. He had the finest collection of
mospuito bites ever seen in these parts.

Mr. Olaf Henderson will sing over the radio to-
night at station W. O. W. The title of his first
selection will be “You're the Swedish girl this side
of heaven.” He will bane be accompanied on the
veranda by Miss Hulda Orchat who can find noth-
ing else to do yust now.

Mr. C. T. Singletree is now residing in New
York where he is living quite comfortably beyond
his paltry income.

Mr. and Mrs. Boreman De Tour were genial host
and hostess at a party given to show off Mrs, De
Tour’s new Paris Creation. A prize was given to
Mrs. Mary Sudsop who surprised the group by her
sleight of hand.

The vulgar cannot love anything different to

themselves.—Jeffery Farnol.

without any
freewill of its own.—Prof.

The earth is a perfect machine,
conscious impulse of
J. W. Gregory.

The way to increase a vocabulary is very much
like the way to increase your personal acquain-
tance, Put yourself in the way of meeting as many
different phases of expression as you can—read
widely, talk with clever people—and whenever you
come across a new word or expression train your-
self so far as possible to understand it, just as you
would train yourself to classify and remember
people you meet, gentle and vulgar, good, bad or
indifferent —Barrett Wondell.

The truth is a beautiful thing, even when it’s
tangled and in doubtful taste—W. B. Seabrook.

The chief lesson of history of those who have
eyes to read is that history throughout is the his-
tory of freedom.—Senatore Groce.

Dr. Paul Douglas, of the economics department
of the University of Chicago, believes that the only
answer to the unemployment situation in the
United States is the dole sysem of Great Britain.

Princeton Theological Seminary will undertake
the biggest development project in its history, with
the opening of the new expansion program. The
Board of! Control of the seminary has voted to
approve the $10,000,000 plan, which includes making
the theological building group the most beautiful
of its kind in the world.
