THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 23, 1931

BAS

a

ALUMNI PERSONALS

Among the alumni visitors here during the
past week (this does not include the several
hundred who were at Davidson especially for
the Elon-Davidson game) were Rev. E. B.
Robinson, 1900, of Talladega, Ala.; C. C. Tra-
vue, IV., ’28, of Nashville, Tenn.; D. P. An-
derson, Jr., ’30, \ Birmingham, Ala., en route
to University of Pennsylvania; Chas. A, Sisson,
"31, of Winona, Miss., en route to Harvard
Business School; J. T. Kerr, ’28, Chapel Hill;
Leland McKeithen, ’33, of Aberdeen, on leave
of absence from U. S. Naval Academy, and
Prof. J. H. Hall, Jr., ’27, of Blacksburg, Va.

Roland B. Parker, ’26, who has been teach-
ing at Darlington School since his graduation,
is this year a student at the University of
North Carolina, He was awarded a fellowship
in the history department.

Four Davidson students this June finished
the two-year medical. course at the University
of North Carofina. Their names and the places
at which they are continuing their studies are
Shelby W. Vance, ’28, Emory University ;
Henry C. Harrell, ’29, Johns Hopkins; J. B.
. Hall, '29, University of Pennsylvania, and W.
H. Flythe, ’29, Vanderbilt.

Davidson alumni passing the North Carolina
bar examination’ this summer were W. T. Cov-
ington, Jr., ’27, Raeford ; Robt. B. Peters, Jr.,
19, Tarboro, and Fred D. Hamrick, «Jr., ’30,
Rutherfordton. W. M. Powell, ’29, passed the
Arkansas bar examination, Harllee Branch, Jr.,
’27, passed the Georgia bar,

Vir As Bakey ith 25" ot Greenville, Miss.,
was recently chosen from Washington County
as their representative in the next State Legis-
lature.

C. R. (Pat) Crawford, ’23, who has been
setting a fast pace at first base and at the
bat for the Columbus, Ohio, club, has recently
been purchased by the St. Louis Cardinals. Mr.
Crawford has formerly played in the big leagues
with the New York Giants and Cincinnati
Reds.

D. T. Bradshaw, ’11, formerly of Efland, N.
C, was a member of a_ trapping party to
Guadalupe Island, off the California coast, who
were marooned,for several days.

Henry S. Goodwin, ’30, who was a research
chemist at Midland, Mich., last year, has ac-
cepted an appointment as teaching assistant in
the chemistry department of the University of
Michigan, at Ann Arbor, Mich. At the same
time, he will continue his studies in chemistry,
looking toward master of arts and doctorate
degrees in that subject.

E. S. Heefner, Jr., ’30, student at Harvard
Law School last year, is this year continuing
his law course at Duke University.

Dr. R. F. Wakefield, '14, for 12 years a prac-
ticing optician in Charlotte, has recently gone
to.Greensboro, where he is connected with the
Lane Optical Company.

Davidson alumni graduating from the various
seminaries and the calls which they have ac-
cepted are as follows: Rey. P. J. Garrison, ’28,
Elizaville, Ky.; Rev. Paul P. Thrower, 29,
Vicco, Ky.; Rev. H. F. Peterson, ’28, Cedar-
town, Ga.; Rev. Harllee Bordeaux, 27, Old
Greenwich, Conn.; Rev. Ronald S. Wilson, ’27,
University, Va.; Rev. J. H. Caligan, '27, Val-
dese; Rev. C. G. Davis, '27, Asst. Pastor,
Grace-Covenart Presbyterian Church, Rich-
mond, Va.; Rev. Jas. S. Gray, ’28, Lydia Rob-
son Memorial Church, Charleston, W. Va.;
Rey. Leighton M. McCutchen, ’27, Bulape,
Africa; Rev. T. H. Hamilton, ’27, Colonial
Heights Presbyterian Church, Petersburg, Va.;
Rev. Geo. F. Houck, ’28, Bolar, Va.; Rev.
Julian Lake, ’28, Warrenton, Va.; Rev. W. L.
McColgan, ’28, St. Charles, Mo.; Rev. J. M.
Murchison, ’28, Roxbury, Va.; Rev.-A. B, Wil-
liford, ’26, Millboro, Va. V. S. Broyles, Jr., 27;
Harry G. Gooodykoontz, ’27, and Chas. F. Mc-
Rae, ’28, all finished their training, but were
awarded fellowships and are continuing their
studies at Union Theological Seminary. J. M.
Appleby, ’26, is studying under a fellowship at
Edinburgh, Scotland.

Davidson alumni who are ministers, and who
recently accepted new calls, and the places
where they are now located, include Rev. R.
C. Wilson, 10, Kings Mountain; Rev. R. C.
Long, '07, Greenwood, S. C.; Rev. J. M. Rich-
ards, ’22, Thomasville, Ga.; Rev. H. N. Alex-
ander, ’10, Delhi, La.; Rev. D. Ralston Bitzer,
22, Assistant Pastor, First Presbyterian
Church, Charleston, W. Va.; Rev. Geo. F.
Robertson, D.D., ’78, Clover, S. C.

W. Lewis Hart, ’30, of San Antonio, Texas,
will not return to the Harvard Business School
this year, but expects to conclude his two-year
course there the following year.

J. M. Akers, ’28, who won a fellowship in
economics at the University of North Caro-
lina, is now “studying at Chapel Hill.

W. O. Puckett, '27, formerly a member of
the Davidson faculty and for two years con-
nected with the University of North Carolina,
is continuing his doctorate’s work at Princeton,
where he was awarded a fellowship.

Joe H. McConnell, ’27, who obtained his law
degree in June, and made Phi Beta Kappa at
the University of Virginia, is now connected
with the firm of Wideman, Wideman and Ward-
law, at West Palm Beach, Fla.

W. B. Garrison, ’20, who is on the Mecklen-
burg County Board of Commissioners, is now
secretary-treasurer and manager of the Gas-
tonia Coca-Cola Bottling Company.

Dr. J. B. Gallent, '25, has been elected pro-
fessor of chemistry at Brenau College, Gaines-
ville, Ga. After completing his Ph.D. at the
University of North Carolina, Dr. Gallent
taught for a year as assistant professor of
chemistry at Jonesboro A. and M. College,
Jonésboro, Ark.

Davidson Five and Ten
Years Ago

TEN YEARS AGO

With the North Carolina State game less
than a week off, the Davidson Wildcats are
going through some strenuous preparation for
the Techmen. Coach. Fetzer has a squad of
fifty men to choose from, and with ten letter-
men from last year’s varsity back, the outlook
is quite promising.
President William’ J. Martin was the speaker
at the regular Sunday evening Y vesper serv-
ice this week. His subject was “What Shall
My Life Work Be?”

The Eumanean Literary Society initiated 35

‘Freshmen last Saturday night and_ provided

various forms of entertainment . for: their ben-
efit. The Davidson-Japanese Aero Service gave
three exhibition flights with Frosh Minter,
Rhames, and Carr. Rhames won the altitude

J record with ease.

The Delta Pi Dappa journalistic fraternity
held its annual initiation on September 20 for
six new men. This organization was founded
at Davidson last year and is looking forward
to a very successful season.

The Davidson varsity locked horns with the
scrub team in a practice game last Saturday
and emerged victorious, 26-0.

Dr. Frazer Hood is a new and welcome addi-
tion to the Davidson faculty this year. He will
fill the C. E. Graham Chair of Education and
Psychology.

FIVE YEARS AGO

The Davidson Wildcats trounced the Elon
Christians, 34-0, in the initial gate of the sea-
son last Saturday on Richardson, Field. David-
son suffered greatly, however, in the loss of
Nick Sappenfield, quarterback, whose leg was
broken in the second quarter of the game.

The Sigma Alpha Epsilon and Phi Gamma
Delta social fraternities have just moved into
houses off the campus. Several other chapters
are planning such a move in the near future.

The fail tennis tournament at Davidson will
begin on Monday, September 28.

Coach Monk Mattox is a new addition to
the staff of Wildcat mentors. He has taken over
his work as coach of Freshmen athletics,

Sorrows remembered sweeten present joy—

Robert Pollock.

Births

ENGAGEMENTS

The following is a list of hirths to Davidson

College alumni since the last issue of The Da-

vidsonian was published, in so far as the execu-

tive secretary has been able to prepare it:

1904--To Mr. and Mrs. M. L. Rozzell, of Char-
lotte, a daughter, Elizabeth Vanstory, on
June 22nd.

1914—To Mr. and Mrs. Harry S. Caldwell, of
Davidson, twins, a daughter, Elizabeth
Kincaid, and a son, William Harry, on
June 15th.

1917—To Mr. and Mrs. T. J. Mitchell, of Bur-
lington, a daughter, Laura Sue, on June
24th.

1919—To Mr. and Mrs, J. F, Hurley, Jr., of

Salisbury, a son, James Franklin, III,
on July 22nd.

—To Mr. and Mrs. John W. McAlister, of
Greensboro, a daughter, Mary Watson,
on May 24th.

1920—To Dr..and Mrs. F. L. Knight, of San-

ford, a son, Floyd L., Jr., on May 24th.

1921—To Mr. and Mrs. C. L. Cathey, of New-

ton, William Homer, on May
25th.

—To Rev and Mrs,’A. L. Currie, of Nash-
ville, Tenn., a daughter, Betty London,
on June 8th.

To Mr. and Mrs. W. C. Gaither, of
Newton, a son, Albert Cowles, IT., on
July 23rd.

To Mr. and Mrs. M. W. McGill, of Da-
vidson, a son, Phillip Burch, on June
27th.

1924—To Mr. and Mrs. C. E. Hodgin, Jr., of

Lyndon, Ky., a son, on August 6th.
—To Mr. and Mrs. H. N. Myers, of
Greensboro, a son, Michael Geoghegan,
on July 3lst.
1925—To Mr. and Mrs. W. S. Glenn, Jr., of
Spartanburg, S. C., a son, William Sh;
ITf., on June 16th.

Mr. and Mrs. C. P. Johnston, of
Charlotte, a daughter, Beatrice Lee, on
June 8th.

1927—To Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm McQueen, of
Fayetteville, a daughter, ow August 11th.

1928—-To Mr. and Mrs. Robt. M. Crosland, of
Charlotte, a son, Robert Moseley, Jr., on
May 27th. ; :

—To Mr, and Mrs. Sam H. Currie, of
Toronto, Can., a daughter,

Lucey, in July.

a. son,

1922

—To

Margaret

Alumni Marriages

Trabue-Ritzius

Information was recently received at David-
son about the marriage on Jute 6th of Miss
Julie Ritzius, of Beersheba, Tenn., to Charles
Clay Trabue, IV., of Nashville, Tenn. Since
graduating from Davidson in 1928, Mr. Trabue
has been attending the medical school at Van-
derbilt University and has one more year be-
fore he completes his degree. Mrs, Trabue grad-
uated at the University of Tennessee. They are
at home at the Gainsboro Apartments, Nash-
ville, Tenn,

TWENTY-EIGHT MEN
COMPETE IN TENNIS

(Continued from page 3)
boro to play. The Country Club there has an
excellent team and will furnish strong oppo-
sition for the Wildcats.

Three of the five seeded men in the tourna-
ment, DuBose, Calder and Myers, were vet-
erans of last year’s varsity. Halverstadt and
Lafferty were the No. 1 and 2 men on the
Freshman team and gained their ranking from
their excellent records in competition last sea-
son.

The Freshman tennis tournament is sched-
uled to begin on Monday, September 28.

PAT CRAWFORD SOLD TO
ST. LOUIS CARDS

(Continued from page 3)
the St. Lonis-Cardinals, National League cham-
pions of 1930 and 1931.

While, at Davidson, Crawford was captain
of baseball and basketball and four years a let-
ter man in the former sport, winning state
recognition in all sports. He won numerous
other honors in addition to his athletic laurels.
He was a member of O. D. K., vice-president
of student body, Student Council, and’ presi-

dent of Y. M. C, A.

Neal-Kluttz

“Mr. and Mrs. John Carlysle Neale, of Lanes-
ville, Va., announce the engagement of their
daughter, Bosher, to Lex William
Kluttz, of Raleigh, the wedding to take place
in October.”

Mr. Kluttz is a 1915 graduate of Davidson,
and is now secretary of the Y. M. C. A. in
Raleigh. For many years he was a teacher a
foreign countries, and upon his return to Amer
ica he was connected with the Near East Re-
lief Foundation,

3everly

Blakeney-Mcllwaine

“Misses and Anne Patton, at
Karuizawa, Japan, announce the engagement of
Miss Bess Martin Blakeney, of Marugame, to
Rev. William Alexander McIlwaine, of Nagoya,
Japan.”

Mr. McIlwaine graduated from Davidson in
1915. He taught for a short time and then com-
pleted his training for the ministry at Union
Theological Seminary, going from there to

Florence

Japan as a missionary.
Bryant-Hill

“Mr, and Mrs. F. B. Bryant, of Kent, Ohio,
announce the engagement of their daughter,
Helen, to Hadley A. Hill, of New York and
Memphis, Tenn,”

Mr. Hill graduated from Davidson in 1921,
and later attended Columbia University. He is
now associated with the Case-Shepperd-Mann
Publishing Co., of New York. Miss Bryant is
a graduate of Ohio State and Columbia Uni-
versity, and has been teaching in Cleveland,
Ohio.

Bragaw-Boggs

“Mrs. Richard Bragaw, of Lexington, an-
nounces the engagement of her daughter, Mar-
tha Adderton, to Ralph Erwin Boggs, Jr., of
Old Hickory, Tenn., the wedding to take place
in the First Presbyterian Church at Lexington,
at 9 o'clock, October 7th.”

Mr. Boggs was a 1925 graduate of Davidson,
and after completing his work here he worked
for some time in Gastonia. At present he is
employed at Old Hickory, Tenn.

Mapp-Lake

“Mrs. George Richard Mapp, of Bridgetown,
Va., announces the engagement of her daughter,
Jennie Scott, to James Albert Lake, Jr., of
Greenville® Miss., the marriage to take place
in Hungars Protestant Episcopal, Church,
Bridgetown, Va., at 7:30 o'clock, October 10th.”

Mr. Lake graduated from Davidson in 1925,
and later completed his law course at Harvard.
He worked in New Haven, Conn., for a while,
later returning to his home in Greenville, Miss.,
to practice.

Faw-Regen

Information has been received at Davidson
of the approaching marriag® on October 6th
of Miss Elizabeth Faw, of Franklin, Tenn., to
Clair D, Regen, also of Franklin, Mr? Regen is
a 1925 alumnus of Davidson, and for a while
after his departure, he was in the insurance
business. At present he is connected with the
Standard Oil Company, with headquarters in
Franklin,

Alexander-Bernhardt

“Mr. and Mrs: Edgar D. Alexander, of Mor-
ganton, announce the engagement of their

daughter, Jean Thornwell, to John Christian
Bernhardt, of Lenoir, the marriage to take
place this fall.” ;

Since graduating in 1927, Mr. Bernhardt has

r

been in the furniture business, and with the
exception of a few months, has been located
at Lenoir.

Garrett-Douglass

“Mr. and Mrs. T. H. Garrett, of Augusta,
Ga., announce the engagement of their daugh-
ter, Mildred, to Edwin Latimer Douglass, also
of Augusta, the wedding to take place on Oc-
tober 15th.”

Mr. Douglass graduated from Davidson in
1928, and since leaving here he has been asso-
ciated with the Augusta Hardwood Company,
of Augusta, Ga.

Torrence-Tate

“Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Torrence, of Lin-
coln, Nebr., announce the engagement of their
daughter, Ann Eliza, to William Smith Tate,
of Charlotte, the wedding to be solemnized in
Charlotte on October 3rd.”

Mr. Tate is a member of the class of 1928,
and nS leaving here he has been connected
with the |Tate-Brown Company, of Charlotte.

\

“Mrs. Robert Edward Follin, of Winston-
Salem, announces the engagement of her daugh-
ter, Lucy Reynolds, to Wyatt Albion Armfield,
of Asheboro, the wedding to take place in
late fall.”

Mr. Armfield graduated from Davidson last
June, and while here was prominent in many
dttivities. é

Literary Societies
Hold First Meetings

fs peeiesisanes
On Tuesday evening, September 15th, the
Literary Societies of Davidson College held
their first meetings of the fall.

President Kuykendall presided _at-the Eu-
menean meeting. The program consisted of a
talk on Current Events by Bill Ward, and a
talk on “Davidson Traditions” by Charlie
Moore, A large number of Freshmen were pres-
ent along with the regular members.

The Philanthropic Society was presided over
by President Ryburn, There was no program
planned, and a business meeting was held.
There were also extemporaneous debates held.
A large number of new men were also present
at this meeting.

Statistics on Elon-
Davidson Game

Yards gained from scrimmage: Elon
§6, Davidson 215.

Passes attempted: Elon 12, Davidson 1.

Passes completed: Elon 5, Davidson 1.

Yards gained on passes: Elon 53 yards,
Davidson 7 yards.

Total yards gained on scrimmage and
passes: Elon 119, Davidson 222.

Average length of Kickoffs: Elon 35,
Davidson 33.
Yardage gained on kickoff returns:

Elon 25, Davidson 5.

Average length of punts: Elon 28, Da-
vidson 24,

Yardage gained on punt returns: Elon
30, Davidson 24.
First Downs: Elon 8, Davidson 9.

|

COME IN

$25.00) Tailored Suits |$29.50
Stetson “D” Store

OPPOSITE CAMPUS
PHONE 206
Our Store is your Store, so make it your Down Town

Headquarters. We carry everything from head to foot
that a College Man will need.

TO SEE US

