~The Davidsonian

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

Vol. XIX

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 2, 1931

—==

No. 12

“SERVICE” IS THEME OF

“OUR SPIRIT IS C

DR. HENDERLITE’S TALK
AT Y. M. C. A. VESPERS

A river is a thing of beauty and potential |

Gastonia Minister Delivers Interesting | th kes It quenches the thirst of plant life along

and Instructive Talk at Regular

wf Service

C. E. MOORE, JR., PRESIDES

E. S. Brannon and F. G. Rule Lead
Opening Prayers

Dr. J. F. Henderlite, of Gastonia, conducted
the Sunday Y vespers here last Sunday, No-
vember 29th. Dr. Henderlite was introduced by
Charlie Moore, and the singing was led by

Charlie Myers. Prayers were offered by E. S.
Brannon and F. G. Rule.
No scripture lesson was read because the

speaker was delayed in arriving, but Dr. Hen-
derlite outlined the lesson taken from the latter
part of the 10th chapter of Matthew, using the
last verse as his text. In this selection, Christ
is giving His final instructions to His disciples.
This lesson is expanded by a Dr. McDowell,
whom Dr. Henderlite quoted as having said
that it is a man’s business to do the will of
God; that God takes care of such a man: and
that that man need not fear anything because
of that fact. Then, we see further that in this
portion of Scripture, Christ also promises a
reward to others—to the lay workers and busi-
ness men who. give their moral support. and
personal influence and prestige to the Kingdom
of God on earth. Finally, Christ promises a
reward to the man who gives a cup of cold
water to one of the least of His kingdom.

On this final thought, the speaker based his
address. He pointed out that we are ever so
Prone to be ready only for the big things of
life, and consequently we forget, or minimize
or slur over the “cup of cold water” jobs or our
little duties in life. Yet, so often has it been
the case that these little things have proved to

be the pivot for the apparently bigger things. |

The audience’s attention was directed to the
fact that originally the word “water” was not
in the phrase “cold water,” but merely a “cup
of cold.” This was so worded that the stress
would be not on the service rendered but rather
on the quality of service. Several illustrations
were then given to illustrate this point.. One
of them was the case of two men who were
being discussed by two other men, in which it
was said that it was better to have favor
turned down by one of the two men than
to have it granted by the latter, because of the
nasty manner in which the latter concurred a
favor. Similarly, it was shown what a differ-
ence it makes when one goes to a farm house
for a drink of water, and on asking for it is
directed to a pail that has been drawn for some
time. How easy it would have been for the
farmer to have a fresh pail drawn! In each
case the thirst was quenched, but in the latter
the refreshment was so much more complete.

This led us to the question of our type of
service. Were we polluting the Lord's table
with luke-warm service? Did we do half-baked
preaching,,or ill prepare a Sunday School les-
son before teaching it? If sO, we must remem-
ber that God not only treats us with kindness,

(Continued on page 6)

a

“A Thousand Dollar

Goal”

The Y. M. C. A. is this year spon-
soring a Student Body Gift Campaign
for Missions, both home and foreign.
The proposed project is outlined be-
low:

1. To raise $1,000 for the purpose of
Mi s by student body contribu-
tions.

2. Of this amount, $200 is to be used
in maintaining the work in the local
Mill Chapel. This is one of-the most
notable pieces of Home Mission work
in this section of the state.
founded by our student body.

3. The remainder of the amount
raised shall go to the Executive Com-
mittee of Foreign Missions of the
Southern Presbyterian Church. Under
the experienced guidance of this group
it shall be used in the name of the

It was

~ courses by dams and reservoirs. The

its banks. Great rivers are halted in their

power
which churns the dynamos anc gives to us elec-

tricity comes from the “overflow” of these res-

You ask, “What has this Mis-
sions ?’

Missions is the “overflow” of Christianity. It
jis the power of Christ lighting up the night
of heathenism. It is not a chance by-product of
jthe church. It is the purpose of its existence.
| There are few men sn this campus who are not

to do with

jervoirs. Picture man as a segment in a long! Christians. To each one of us comes the Divine

|stream of life coming from the Spring of
| Eternity. Picture individuals as reservoirs along
| this great stream. The power and volume of
|the “overflow” is determined by the height and
| Position of the dam. Some of these reservoirs
jhave little or no “overflow” because they do
inot rear their dykes skyward. The man who
equips his life with high dykes will have a
great reservoir of power. The higher the dyke
the more of God he will catch in his life, the
more power he will possess. The more power
one possesses the more force he can offer to
mankind. He can give light to humanity with
this power. A reservoir must be full to over-

flowing before .it can generate any great force. |

|One's own spiritual life must be full to over-
flowing before it can exert that mystical force
}upon another. A man can shed spiritual light
}only when he has an “overflow” of the Spirit.

We are proud of the Spirit of Davidson. To |

/a Davidson man it is a thing of reality and con-
quering power. It makes the blood pound at our
tem

to shine, and our hearts to flood with cour-
lage. In the quiet moments of campus life it

is still real, a quiet power which we absorh |

in our own spirits.

ples, it causes us to lift our heads, our eyes |

| Commission, “Go ye into all the world and
preach the gospel to every creature.” We get
our command from the Highest Authority. Obe-
|dience to orders is the watchword of military
|discipline. Disobedience ofttimes means death.
| Neglect of the last command of our Supreme
| Commander means spiritual death, to others and
ito ourselves, Are you a Christian? You have
|the command. Have we accepted the security
given us by the warfare of the Saints and refuse
to obey His command? He did not give us the
command until He had conquered death and
| proved His power. He has the right. He com-
mands. What men of Davidson follow ?
The, Spirit of Davidson in years past has
the test of the “overflow.” We have
contributed to worthy causes. It is an annual
}expression of the Davidson Spirit. This year
ithe “Y" offers a cause that should. strike
responsive chord in your heart. The appeal is
not based upon loyalty to the Spirit of David.
son, It is based upon loyalty to Jesus Christ.
It strikes at the source of our individual lives
of the spirit. It is not an appeal that can be

| stood

| made to superficial Christianity. It is an appeal

which has its force only when we consider it
in the quiet of our souls.

HALLENGED”

seeccececoos

Some Sunday afternoon go across the rail-
road tracks and attend a ‘service in the Mill
Chapel. You will see a need and note a re-
sponse that will thrill you. Inquire into some
of the details of the work. It represents a labor
ot love from some of the members of our stu-
dent body. It was founded by our student body
through the “Y.” To some man in years past
came the vision and a call. We cannot be false
to such a vision of truth.

In “the chapel of your soul,” in the quiet-
ness of your spirit, let the story of Missions
unveil itself before your See glorious
visions of courage and sacrifice. Let us not al-
low our spiritual blind spots to blot out the
glories of the power of Christ! See men and
women sacrificing all that one holds dear to an-
swer that clarion call of Christ. See them as
they labor and at last fall and falling pass on
the torch to eager youth. Think of the progress
which has been made, the souls that have been
saved from despair. Think of the tremendous
force which Christianity has exerted on the
world, Think of the golden ,opportunity of the
moment, Some of the nations of the world long
buried in the past ‘are now emerging into. the
circle of progressive humanity. Think what. it
would meay if their articles of government and
conduct were shot through with the Spirit of
Christ!

eyes.

Out in the darkness there are outstretehed
hands and pleading eyes. Will the light of our

souls be strong enough to pierce the shadows:

Mr. David Ovens to Lead
“Y” Vespers Next Sunday

Speaker Is General Manager of Ivey’s
| Store and Very Prominent
Business Man -

| Mr. David Ovens, general manager of Ivey's
Department Store in Charlotte, will speak at
“Y" vespers next Sunday evening, December
6th. This will be an unustial opportunity for the
| students of Davidson College, and every man
}on the campus should take advantage of it, be-
| cause the service is sure to be unusual and ex-
| ceedingly interesting.

| As one of the most outstanding business men
in Charlotte, Mr. Ovens has displayed a genu-
ine interest in, the civic life of the community,
j and also in the welfare of the unemployed, as is
; shown by the fact that he was chairman of the
| unemployment committee. While head of that
| organization, his abilities a leader and
business executive were again evident, because,
in the drive for funds to help
|the goal was not only reached, but it was sur-
passed. Yet, the thing which is of the supreme
jinterest about this man is the fact that with
| all this capacity for leadership and with all his
| business efficiency, Mr. Ovens has never been
|to college. He is a self-made man and every-
jone in Davidson College should look upon this
opportunity to hear him as an unusual privil-

(Continued on page 6)

“HAUNTED HOUSE” TO
_ BE STAGED ON DEC. 11

-Cast- Completed With Addition of
| Reeves Pope, Horace Ervin,
and J. Womble

j

as a

the opportunity

With December 11th more than a week away,
the Masquers are whipping “The Haunted
House” into fine shape. Today the last assign-
ment on part-learning was reviewed, and to-
morrow rehearsals of all three acts will com-
mence. In these two and a half hour daily prac-
'tices the players are required to know their
jlines thoroughly so that all attention and criti-
/cism can be focused on stage action and dramatic
technique, upon which such important phases of
playmaking too little time has been reserved in
past plays.

The cast is now complete with the addition
of Reeves Pope as Morgan the. Tramp, and
H. W. Ervin as Duncan, the All-Wise, men-
| tally superior author of detective fiction, J. G.

Davidson student body wherever the | Womble again assuming the role originally as-

need is most urgent. signed to him, as Mr. Evans, nervous owner
4. Subscriptions shall be solicited |) of the troublous home in Cedar Point.

December 15th through the 18th. Pay- | The audience will have little cause to regret

ment can be made at that time or after || the Masquers’ choice in) “The Haunted House,”

the holidays. for although a more melodramatic and serious
4 .(Continued from page 5)

DR. PIERSON TO SPEAK
AT INITIATION OF NEW
PHI BETA KAPPA MEN

Three Alumni and Nine Undergradu-
ates to Be Initiated Here on
December 7th

PROGRAM TO BE VARIED
Banquet in Honor of New Men Fol-
lows Services

Announcement has been made here that. Dr.
W. M. Pierson, dean of the Graduate School
of the University of North Carolina, has ac-
cepted an invitation of the N.C.
ter, Phi Beta Kappa, at Davidson College to
deliver the principal address here at the annual
fall initiation for members of
this national honorary scholastic fraternity on
Monday night, December 7th.

Gamma _ chap-

exercises new

These annual exercises represent one of the
high lights of the fall calendar of the college,
and is the occasion for the return of numerous
alumni of this section. The local chapter’s offi-
cials consider themselves very fortunate in hav-
ing obtained Dr. Pierson for the evening’s pro-
gram since he is such an outstanding man in
educational circles and is in much demand _ be-
catise of his oratorical ability.

Three Davidson alumni have accepted bids
extended to them by the local chapter. They

jinclude Rev. J. A. McQueen, '05; Dr. John

Walker Moore, ’06 and Dr. Algernon B.
Reese, '17. Rev. McQueen, after graduation,
taught at Jonesboro and at Thomasville. Then
returned to Davidson as an instructor and
while here received his M.A. degree in 1907-08.
He attended Princeton Seminary where he ob-
tained his bachelor of divinity degree. Rev. Mc-
Queen has held pastorates in Concord, N. C.,
Orange, Va., and Rockingham, N. C. He was
of theology in
now head of the
Westminster

he

Arkansas
Philosophy
Fulton,

formerly professor
College. He
Department
Missouri.
Dr. More is a graduate of the class of 1906
and is a native of McConnelsville, S. C. He re-
ceived his M.D. degree at the University of
Pennsylvania, and was an interne at Episcopal
Hosptial. From 1915 to 1917 he held the posi-
tion as instructor in pathology and_ bacteriol-
ogy at the University of Louisville. During the
war he was a major in the medical corps sta-

1s

at College,

tioned at Hospital Center, Nantes, France.
Since then he has been connected with the

Medical School at the University of Louisville,
and was made dean of that school in 1929,
Dr. Reese graduated from Davidson in 1917.
He took his medical degree at Harvard and
was a student at the University of Vienna for
one year. Before starting his career as eye,
ear and nose specialist in New York City,
he served an interneship at the Mayo Clinic.

(Continued on page 6)

Fifteen Students Try
For Rhodes Scholarship

Twenty-seven Candidates Will Repre-
sent North Carolina at Sectional
Meeting at Durham
The sectional meetings to determine the dis
trict representatives for the final selection for
the Rhodes scholarship at Atlanta will be held
this year on the fifth of December, At this time
North Carolina will be represented by 27 candi
dates, which at ten than have
ever before applied. There will be four from
the University of North 13° from
Duke, one from Guilford, three from N, C.
| State, one from Wake Forest, and five from
Davidson, Davidson will he addi-
tionally represented by four men from South

is least more

Carolina,

However,

Carolina, two men from the state of Virginia,
two men Florida,
Georgia.

from and two men from

}committee will be on Friday,-the fourth of

| December, at supper at 6:30 "to be served at
| the Duke University union. This will be merely
jan informal gathering of the candidates and the
| committee.

Then on Saturday morning at 9:30 the indi
lual conferences will begin. At this time the
‘committee is assembled in a room, and the
| candidates are brought in one by one. This

(Continued from page 5)

JUDGE PARKER SPEAKS
TO FACULTY MEMBERS

“Relation Between Democracy,’ and
Constitutional Government” Is Sub-
ject Discussed by Speaker

| vic

The tide the
growing power of organized majorities, the dis-

rising of socialistic thought,
integration of local government, and repressed
attacks on the judiciary were cited here last
night by Judge John J. the United
States Circuit Court of Appeals, as serious dan

Parker, of

gers to American democracy, and constitutional
government.

Judge Parker was speaking at Davidson be
fore the Club, organization
made up of members of the college faculty, It
was the club,

members

Quadranglers an

also ladies’ night for

proximately 100 faculty

and ap
and invited
guests heard this stirring appeal for the pres
ervation of democracy, which has
been founded, said the speaker, upon the rights
of individuals and the conception of a dual soy-
ereignty, with a necessary result of a new con-
ception of the judiciary. :

American

The speaker's subject was the “Relationship
Between Democracy and Constitutional Govern-
ment.” He traced the history of democracy, how

(Continued on page 6)

The first meeting of the candidates with the |

‘WAKE FOREST DEFEATS
’CATS IN HARD GAME
AT CHARLOTTE, NOV. 26

/Davidson Fails in Determined Drive
and Loses by Close Score of 7-0

- SCORE IN FOURTH PERIOD

Brogden Receives Pass to Make Lone
Touchdown for Deacons

Although held to even terms in the first ‘half,
and considerably outclassed in the third quarter,
the Wake Forest team came back’ late in the
fourth period to score and to thwart Davidson's
attempt to win her annual Thanksgiving Day
football classic. This victory on the part. of
the Deacons strengthened their supposed jinx
by one year and gave to them the record of not
a defeat by the Davidson team since 1921,

The Wake team, halted on the
yard line a moment before, used just two plays

Forest five-

in scoring from mid-tield, to mark up the lone
touchdown,

The first of these plays came when Hutchins,
quarterback, received Pearce’s punt on the 50-
line and to Davidson's before
pulled down. On the Dune
Wilson passed to Leon Brogden for 15 yards,

yard raced 25

being next play
and the latter evaded two Davidson men and
the remaining distance the goal,
scoring standing up. A pass was good for the

stepped to

extra point.

On the defensive side, Frosty Peters, diminu-
halfback; Elsie Webb, Ed Williams, and
Johnny Dupree

tive
outstandings for the
Deacons, with Wilson being the most consistent
ground gainer and Hipps getting the longest
run of the afternoon on a 35-yard off-tackle
play.

were

For the Wildcats, Gardner and Mathis were
outstanding in the line, while McQueen's de-
tensive play and line smashing were partic-
Jularly effective. Pearce once more proved him-
self to be a triple threat of no mean ability
with his spectacular punting and his accurate
passing and his effective ball carrying.
battled
scored

hoth clubs
Deacons two
first but both were mid-field and
were than offset by beautiful
punts by Pearee, which kept the Wake Forest
team within their own territory.

the first

even

In
about

quarter on
terms. The
downs, in

more several

In the second quarter the Wildeats received
their first opportunity to threaten the Deacons’
went out on
adyanced by
24-yard line.
and the ball
went over after a pass over the goal line on the
fourth down. The Wildcats threatened again
}when Captain Raker recovered Hutchins’ fum-
ble Mills’ punt on his own 25-yard line.
But the drive was stopped on the next play
when Dupree intercepted Mills’ pass.

goal line. One of Bradley's punts
the 38-yard line, and the ball was
running plays to the Wake Forest

Here, however, the Deacons held

After the half the ’Cats came back with re-
newed vengeance. By a combination of running
and passing they fought their way to the 19-
yard line. Here, however, Wake Forest held,
and kicked out. Once more the Wildcats started
a determined drive. This time the ball was car-
ried to the five-yard line when a line plunge
for a first down “failed by a matter of inches
and the ball changed After this the
Wildeats failed to show their former punch, al-
though they did drive to Wake Forest's 33-yard
line minute later, Pearce carrying the ball
on every play, until he passed to Don King
for a 17-yard gain, the last that the ‘Cats were
able to make.

hands

Getting possession of the ball at this point,
the Deacons showed their first offensive power.
Here they ripped through Davidson's line and
around end betore being stopped on the David-
son tive. It was here that Pearce punted out to
the 50, Hutchins, Wilson, and Brogden
from page 5)

and
(Continued

Sophomore House Party

The Christmas house party, which
will be sponsored by the Sophomore
class, will be held on the week-end of
December 19th.

The features of this party will be a
free picture show in the afternoon, a
Sophomore banquet in Chambers’ ban-
quet hall, and an entertainment in
Charlotte at the Charlotte Hotel, with
music furnished by the Sunnyland
Serenaders, who will also play at the
banquet.

