&

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 16, 1931

vd \
Mle? ANN

ALUMNI DEATHS

Alumni Marriages

Dr. Geo. L. Petrie, ’59

Rev. Geo. Laurens Petrie, D.D., LL.D,
member of the class of 1859 and oldest liv-
ing matriculate of Davidson College, died
at his home in Charlottesville, Va., on March
27. Thus was taken from the ranks of Da-
vidson alumni-a man who was described by
The. Charlottesville Progress, “grand old
man of Southern Presbyterianism, a preach-
er of the gospel for nearly 70 years, last of
the chaplains of the Confederacy, and author
of several books.”

Dr. Petrie was born at Cheraw, S. C., in
1840, when this country was a republic of
26 states and seventeen millions of people.
He entered Davidson in 1855, remained here

two years, and then went to Oglethorpe
University, from which he~¢raduated in
1859, In 1862 he finished his ministerial

preparation at Columbia Theological Sem-
inary,

The deceased became chaplain of the 22nd
Regiment of Alabama Volunteers, and served
under Gen. Jos. B. Johnston and Gen. J. BR.
Hood. He was in the battles of Resaca, New
Hope Church, Kennesaw Mountain, Benton-
ville and Kinston, and also in a battle fought
at Sumter, S. C., after the surrender, before
word had been received of it:

After the war, Dr. Petrie taught at a
classical in Montgomery, Ala., for
two years, and was professor of Latin at
Oakland College, Mississippi, two years. In
1870 he began ‘his ministerial pastorate work.
He was at Greenville, Ala., two years, ac-
cepted a call and remained at Petersburg,
Va., six years, and in 1878 he went to Char-
lottesville, Va., where he was pastor for
half a century, retiring only twe Years ago
at the age of 89 years.

The degree of D.D. was conferred upon
him by Hampden-Sydney in 1887, and. in
1923, Oglethorpe University honored him
with an LL.D. degree. He had obtained his
master of arts degree from Oglethorpe in
1862. Dr. Petrie had served as Moderator of
the Synod of Virginia, and was the author
of two books, “Jacob’s Sons” and “Israel's
Prophets.”

school

T. H. Davis, ’65

Thomas Huey Davis, another of David-
son’s oldest alumni, died at Lancaster, S. C.,'
March 16, lacking only a few months of be-
ing 90 years of age. Mr. Davis was a mem-
her of the class of 1865. For several years
he had been in failing health, and his death
was not unexpected.

Mr. Davis was, born in Lancaster County,
South Carolina, November 5, 1841, He en-
tered Davidson in 1861, where he was a
member of Chi Phi, a sub-rosa fraternity
here then, but left to enter the War Between
the States. A record of his service in the
war is unobtainable. After its close, Mr.
Davis went to the University of North, Car-
olina,

Leaving the University, Mr. Davis went
into business at Charlotte, where: he re-
mained only a short time before moving to
Lancaster in 1870. For many years he was
in the mercantile business, but his eyesight
failed about 12 years ago, and he was forced
to retire. He had been a deacon in the Lan-
caster Presbyterian Church for 49 consecu-
tive years. :

Among the survivors are Walter T. Davis,
27, of Little Rock, Ark., and Robert Davis,
member of the present student body, who
are grandsons.

E. W. Faucette, ’84

Edward William Faucette, 1884 graduate
of Davidsori, died at his home at Mt. Pleas-
ant, Tenn., on April 2, He was 70 years of
age at the time of his death. Mr. Faucette
entered Davidson from Sassafras Fork, N.
C.,, in 1880. After graduating he taught
school for one year, and then became editor
of The Advertiser, at Milton, N. C., and
later became postmaster at the same place.
Mr. Faucette was a civil engineer, and for
many years he had been in the mining busi-
ness at Mt. Pleasant, Tenn.

Dr. Byron C. Clarke, ’90
Rev. Byron Currie Clark, D.D., 1890 grad-
uate of Davidson, died suddenly at his home

in Salisbury on March 31, after a quarter
of a century's service in that city. He had
been a member of the Board of Trustees of
Davidson since 1907, and for many years was
a member of the executive committee of
that body. The Davidson board members
were honorary pallbearers at his funeral.

Dr. Clarke went to Union Theological
Seminary after his graduation from David
son, and completed his ministerial prepara-
tion at Princeton Theological Seminary,
where he student under Woodrow
Wilson, He held three pastorates during his
lifetime. His first at Accomac, Va.,
where he remained several years before go-
ing to Mt. Washington Presbyterian Church
in Baltimore, Md. He remained there ten
years, and 24 years ago became pastor of
the First Presbyterian Church at Salisbury.
He retired from active duty there six years
ago.

was a

was

Among his survivors is B. Oldham Clark,
'21, of Salisbury, a son.

R. G. Mills, '97

Capt. Robert Gill Mills, 57, member of
the class of 1897, and prominent citizen of
South Carolina, died at Chester, S. C., on
March 28, following a long illness with heart
trouble. Captain Mills attended The Citadel
before coming to Davidson, and after leay-
ing here graduated from a business college
in Atlanta.

He was engaged in banking business in
Alabama for a number of years, but later
came to Chester, ,where he held important
business’ positions, particularly in cotton con-
cerns. At the time of his death, he was field
representative of several counties for the
South Carolina Cotton Growers Association.
The deceased was long identified with the
National Guard, and at the time of his death
he was captain of the Lee Light Infantry at
Chester.

T. B. Spratt, ’09

Thomas Bruce Spratt, 42, member of the
1909 class at Davidson, and prominent in
governmental circles in Charlotte, died in
that city the latter part of March, after two
weeks’ illness with pneumonia. Mr. Spratt
was a civil engineer and for the past 12
years had been County Surveyor for Meck-
lenburg. He had been successively returned
to office the last six elections without serious
opposition, having won the confidence of the
voters during “his first administration. Mr.
Spratt was an elder in the Steele Creek
Presbyterian Church, one of the original
seven churches in’ the county.

W. F. Milburn, ’10

William Frank Milburn, 1910 graduate of
Davidson College, was found dead in bed in
his Atlanta home last Friday, March 20. Mr.
Milburn suffered a nervous breakdown about
three months ago, and while his condition
was known to be serious, it was not thought
that death was imminent. The deceased died
at the comparatively early age of 42.

After graduating from Davidson, Mr. Mil-
burn took a master of arts degree from the
University of Pennsylvania, and then~ be-
came connected with the Addressograph
Company. For 18 years he had been South-

King-Stratford

James A. King, of the class of 1927, of
Washington, D. C., and Miss Mildred Juanita
Stratford, of Charlotte, were married at
Rockville, Md., on April 4. Mrs. King was
educated at N. C. C. W., at Greensboro
Since graduating from Davidson, Mr. King
has been with the Liggett and Myers To-
bacco Company, and was located in North
Carolina for several years before being trans-
ferred to the division managership at Wash-
ington, D. C. Mr. and Mrs. King are at
home at 308 Argyle Apartments, Washing-
ton, D. C.,

Proctor-Lothery

“Mr. and Mrs. O. B. Lothery, of Cor-
nelius, announce the marriage of their
daughter, Katherine, to Sidney Eugene Proc-
tor, of Davidson, the marriage taking place
on April 5.” Mr. Proctor was in the class of
1929 at Davidson, and has been living here
since leaving college. Mr. and Mrs. Proctor
are at home in Davidson.

McLemore-Washam

Dan W. McLemore, Jr... of Davidson,
member of the class of 1930, and Miss Fan-
nie Belle Washam, of Huntersville, were
married at York, S. C., on March 28. Mrs
McLemore was educated at Queens College.
Since leaving college, Mr. McLemore has
been asséciated with the Davidson Cotton
Mills, located here. They are now at home
in Davidson,

Mauze-Dunn

Joseph Layton Mauze, Jr., of New York,
member of the class of 1930, and Miss
Isabelle Dunn, of Kinston, were married at
Kinston on April 4. Mrs. Mauze was edu-
cated at Salem College, and for the past
two years has been residing in New York.
For the past three years Mr. Mauze has
been associated with the brokerage firm of
Laidlow and Company, of New York. Mr.
and Mrs, Mauze are at home at 39 Grove
Street, New York City.

R. T. Ellett, ’30, who has been teaching
at Porter Military Academy this year, has
been re-elected for another year and has
accepted the post.

ern manager, with offices in Atlanta, for that
company, and had made a phenomenal suc-
cess in his field. His activity in social, church
and fraternial circles was also important in
Atlanta, and he was president and the mov-
ing spirit for several years of the Davidson
alumni chapter in that city.

Two years before the United States en-
tered the World War, Mr. Milburn joined
a French ambulance unit and received sev-
eral decorations from the French govern-
ment for bravery. After the United States
entered the conflict he became an officer in
the ordnance department, retaining member-
ship in the ordnance reserve after the war.
He was a lieutenant-colonel at the time of
his death.

—

ollege
‘Printing

Magazines, Catalogs, Programs, Newspapers, Bulletins, Hand-
books, Etc.

Nothing too large or small for our plant—Let us serve you.
P. M. CONWAY, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE

6,600 Square Feet of Floor Space Devoted Exclusively to Printing

Hy
a

Engraved Cards and Invitations.

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

ALUMNI PERSONALS

Among the alumni visitors to Davidson
during the past two weeks were H. Smith
Richardson, ’06, New York; Dr. Bernard
R. Smith, '06, Asheville; R. C. Carter, ’19,
Mt. Airy; W. B. Garrison, ’20, Charlotte;
Hadley A. Hill, ’21, New York; Prof. Jno.
C. Bailey, '22, Baltimore, Md.; Rev. J. McD.
Richards, ’22, Clarkesville, Ga.; D. M. Mc-
Comb, '25, Hickory; Wm. C. Alexander,
27, Due West, S. C.; Joe H. McConnell,
'27, Charlottesville, Va.; Prof. H. C. John-
son, ’28, Woodberry Forest, Va.; W. B. Mc-
Guire, Jr., 30, Durham; F. D. Miller, ’30,
Warrenton, Va.; T. R. Nunan, ’30, and H.
FE. Russell, ’30, both of Decatur, Ga.

Friends will regret to learn of the follow-
ing recent deaths of relatives of Davidson
alumni: The mother of Geo. H. Brocken-
brough, '07, Tryon; a brother of T. F.
Wharton, ’05, Memphis, Tenn.; the father
of Thos. E. Gray, ’25, Jacksonville, Fla.;
the father of A. M. Sinclair, ’26, and Hugh
Sinclair, ’29, of Memphis, Tenn.; the wife
of Hon. W. F. Stevenson, ’85, Cheraw, S. C.;
a brother of Dr. A. F. Tuttle, ’02, Spray;
the brother of Dr, J. Sam Guy, '05, Decatur,
Ga. ; the father of DeWitt Helm, '29, Rich-
mond, Va., and the brother of Julian K.
Morrison, '16, Atlanta, Ga.

Warren C. Ogden, ’27, is a reporter on
The Times-Picayune, of New Orleans, La.,
and is living at..1925 General Pershing
Street. Until a shorf=time ago he lived in
Mobile, Ala., and was a reporter on The
Mobile Register.

Francis H. Lindley, ’25, has been made
secretary of the Tom Walker Company,
clothing concern, in Greensboro, with whom
he has been working for three years.

Chas. M. Pratt and Hugh W. White, both
of the class of 1930, have purchased The
Hart County News at Munfordville, Ky.,
and are now owners and operators of this
paper.

T. J. Murphy, '90, is a candidate for the
city council of Greensboro. Mr. Murphy has
been a former mayor, and has long been
identified with city governmental affairs in
Greensboro.

John A. Bouvier, Jr., ’26, received his
M.B.A. at the University of Chicago last
June, and is now practicing’ law in the Se-
curity Bldg., Miami, Fla. He had previously
obtained his A.B. and LL.B. degrees from
the University of Florida, and writes that
despite the fact that he is an alumnus of
three institutions, Davidson is still “fore-
most.” He attended Davidson two years.

Mayor Geo. W. Coan, Jr., ‘11, of Win-
ston-Salem, has announced that he would
be a candidate for re-election, and the work

of his administration has received highly
complimentary comment in the editorial col-
umns of The Winston-Salem Journal. Mayor
Coan, along with about 25 other mayors, in-
cluding those of New York, Boston, Chicago,
Cleveland, Los Angeles,, New Orleans, At-
lanta, and the Governor of Virginia have
been invited to come to Paris early in May
as joint guests of the City of Paris and the
French Gévernment. —

The word “Davidson” is a little difficult
for Billy Gamble, three-year-old son of Rev.
W. A. Gamble, ’23, of Raymond, Miss., to
pronounce correctly, but he has announced
to the world that he is going to “Dabidson
College in North Ca’lina.” His father writes
that he'll be here in about 14 years.

Dr. DeWitt Kluttz, ’11, of Washington,
N. C., has been chosen president of the Sec-
ond District Medical Society.

Frank S. Wilkinson, ’27, of Rocky Mount,
has been made vice-president and general
manager of the Underwriters Fire Insurance
Company, which concern has its headquar-
ters in Rocky Mount.

Dr. Parks M. King, ’97, of Charlotte,
and Dr. J. Moore McConnell, ’99, of the
Davidson faculty, have been named as mem-
bers of the Board of Managers of the Meck-
lenburg Sanatorium, located at Huntersville.

The sports page of The New York Times
recently carreid an account of the Rugby
game between the New York Rugby Club
and Princeton, which the New Yorkers won,
9 to 3. Riggs McConnell, ’29, a graduate stu-
dent at Princeton and former member of
the Davidson football team, played for
Princeton and a sub-head in the article read,
“McConnell Tackles Pfann,” the detailed ac-
count under it stating that Pfann “stopped
on a brilliant tackle by McConnell, Prince-
ton fullback, passed to Oliphant.” Pfann is
a former Cornell football star and was the
luminary of the New York Club.

A Complete Service
forSchool Pubhcations

Yanuals
Detnetzines
Catalous

ran Books
Queen Cily PrintinaCo.

Charlotte. DOC,

Hh

“DRUGS”

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

a)

Make Our Store Your Store
Students’ Supplies

WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.

“SODA”

“SUNDRIES”

Ae

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Founded 1812. Jointly owned by the Synods of Virginia, North
Carolina, West Virginia, Appalachia

OFFERS

To Regular Students—Well balanced course, including a num-

ber of electives.

To Advanced) Students—Specially chosen courses to fit each

individual case.

To the Most Successful Students—Five Fellowships, some resi-

dent, others abroad.

For Catalogue and information, address
Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., President

