THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 25, 1931

———aaaaaSaSea—n———=

sss, ||| THE SPORTS PARADE |) =x."

For ten long years the Davidson Wildcats
have failed to experience the sweet taste of
victory over the Deamon Deacons of Wake
Forest. Since 1920 Wake Forest has won five
games and has tied the ’Cats in four. Even
the championship Davidson team of 1926
was unable to cope with the supposed jinx
which began hovering over the annual Wake
Forest-Davidson tilt in 1920, and was held to
a 3-3 tie. ‘

Prior to 1920, the situation was entirely re-
versed. Up until that time, the games be-
tween Davidson and Wake Forest were gen-
erally regarded as set-ups, for the Wildcats
were consistent winners from 1908 until 1920
by scores with margins of six, seven, and
eight touchdowns, and in 1917 Davidson won
by the overwhelming score of 72-7.

Tomorrow the Wildcats, accompanied by
the entire Davidson student body, will jour-
ney to Charlotte to meet upon neutral
ground their ancient foes of two decades.
Is there a cycle of victories and defeats as
regards Davidson and Wake Forest? Did
the Davidson cycle end in 1920 and does the
Wake Forest cycle end in 1931? That re-
mains to be seen.

In our opinion, this wide-spread theory of
a Wake Forest jinx over Davidson is so
much hooey. The jinx theory would only
serve as an excuse. Reason and excuse are
two different things. You want reasons?
O. K., here they are. Remember, you asked
for them. In the first place, there has been
too much feeling, too much personal feeling,
regarding the Deacon-Wildcat annual clash.
And where there is an over-abundance of
personal feeling, scientific football and cold
logic fade away. With what results? Sand-
lot football. A primitive and desperate battle
of beef and brawn.

In the re | yee this theory of a Wake
Forest jinx haW&done much to undermine the
spirit of the game. There is no jinx. There
may be an atmosphere of doubt, but there
is no jinx. Wake Forest has been beaten, and
can be beaten again—if and when they are
outplayed. From 1908 to 1920 not one game
did the Deacons win. (In 1917, Wake Forest
was beaten by the Davidson Wildcats by the
score of 72 to 6.) Eleven touchdowns. In 1910
they were beaten 32 to 0. Five touchdowns.
And so on until 1920,

And by what right do we have the priv-
ilege of saying what has been wrong? Free-
dom of the press, my lads, freedom of the
press (such as it is).

With one sentence we may tear our two
above speculations to pieces and Prove our-
selves inconsistent when we say we want re-
venge for the last ten games—but, re-
venge is only the ultimate object. Our im-
mediate object is victory.

Victory we want and victory we must
have. Ten years. All things come to him who
waits. And to you of the Wildcat team we
would say this: Give us this game and Dav-
idson is yours.

Last night was held one of the biggest pep
meetings in the history of the school, show-
ing that every man in the student body is
keyed up to a high pitch of excitement.
They want revenge for the following scores
by which Wake Forest has beaten or tied
the ’Cats since 1920: 10-7, 6-6, 6-0, 7-7, 3-3,
1 3-12, 25-6, 6-0, and 13-2,

Duke Fresh Down Kittens
Friday 7-0 in Close Game

The Davidson College Freshmen completed
their 1931 football schedule last Friday when
they came out of the Duke-Davidson game on
the short end of a 7-0 score. A pass completed
in the last two minutes of play proved the
downfall of the Wildkittens who had put up
a terrific fight against their opponents only to
have the game taken away in the last few mo-
ments of the fourth quarter.

Brumbach, a stellar Duke halfback, was on
the receiving end of the pass and had but
eight yards to run after catching it to make the
only touchdown of the game. He made the
extra point from placement.

The first-year men at Davidson have had
a successful season, having won three games
and lost two. The State Freshmen and the
Duke eleven were the two winning teams over
the ‘Kittens, while the Davidson squad has the
Oak Ridge, Wofford Freshmen, and the Pres-
byterian Junior College teams on their list of
victories.

There were only two injuries’ suffered by the
Wildkittens that were at all serious. Johnny
MacKorell and Dewey Hutchins each are on
crutches, as a result of a broken leg and a
sprained ankle. MacKorell, who was showing
up extremely well during the sérimmages prior
to the last two games, will probably catch the
eye of his coaches during the spring workout,
as his 170 pounds would be an asset to any
ball club. Hutchins, however, has proved him-
self of value while playing in all the contests
this year. :

The line-up is as follows:

Davidson (0) Position Duke (7)
Morgan 10,) 0) Tarrall
Sievers IL, 1, Williams
B. Forte L.G. Burdette
Lee Center FE. Dunlap
Potter RG. Andrews
Hand RT. Phipps
Morris RE. Bryan
West QB. MacNinch
Smathers RH. Brumbach
Winefield LH. Lee
Hutchins F.B. Widenburner
Score by periods:
Davidson cesses ss see 0 0 0 0—0
Diikessoss se esas 0 0 0 7—7

Officials: Hackney, (U. N. C.), referee;
Burke (Ilinois), umpire; Sykes (Wake For-
est), headlinesman.

Scoring touchdowns: Brumbach. Point after
touchdown: Brumbach.

Sophomores Leading
In Class Basketball

In the inter-class basketball contest there
were seven games played last week. The first
was the Seniors vs. the Sophomores and the
Sophomores won, 19 to 10, The Juniors out-
played the Freshmen in the next and won by
a score of 21 to 10. In the third the Sopho-
mores were again victors, beating the Fresh-
men 21 to 8. In the next contest the Seniors

J outplayed the Juniors, winning with a score

of 14 to 11. The fifth game this week was won
by the Seniors, with 19 points to the Fresh-
men’s 18. So far in the contest the Sophomores
are leading. They have played four and won
three. The Juniors are next, playing five and
winning three. The Seniors have third place and
the Freshmen bring up the rear.

Chicago—(IP)—The first American Bible,
simplified and thodernized in phraseology, is
about to be published by the University of Chi-

cago Press. It is claimed for the Bible that |
any American from 8 years old up will be able

to understand all verses in the publication.

Etc.

llege
Printin iz

Magazines, Catalogs, Programs, Newspapers, Bulletins, Handbooks,
: Engraved Cards and Invitations.
Nothing too large or small for our plant—Let us serve you.

P. M. CONWAY, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE

600 Square Feet of Floor Space Devoted Exclusively to Printing

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

&

ne)

)

Track Season Ends for
Both Varsity and Fresh

After not being able to obtain a meet with
the University of South Carolina, the varsity
cross-country team closed its season. Their
only two meets were a defeat by Duke, 27-26,

place last week in the Southern Conference meet
at Chapel Hill. Captain Brannon and Rufus
Morrow did exceptionally good work by devel-
| oping themselves and leading the team on an
{upward grade. Last Saturday, in competing for
the Decathlon, Brannon broke his two-mile
record with the time of 10 minutes, 5 seconds.
‘A lack of experienced men showed up in the
scores this season, but with the-return of Mor-
row, Howard, Earle, Moss, and Woodside, the
team should be more successful next year.

Statistically, the Freshman runners broke
even, winning two meets and losing two. With
only one experienced runner on the team they
|opened the season against the strong Duke
| Fresh and lost. They then went up against the
| Guilford varsity and found the odds against
| them, 21-34, After rounding into shape a bit
jmore, they strained enough to beat Winston
| High, 26-29. In the following week the Central
| High harriers were easy meat for the Fresh-
}men, who ran up a score of 18-37. McFadyen
|and Captain Morris did fine work all through
| the season, and will probably be assets to the
|varsity next year. Much development was
{shown in the other three runners, Gullette,
| Rose, and Richardson, who backed up the for-
mer two in winning the last two meets.

New York—(IP)—Tentative plans of the
National Broadcasting Company call for an in-
ternational debate by radio between Harvard
and Oxford Universities some time in the first
week of December.

The argument, between the two famous
schools 3,000 miles apart and separated by the
Atlantic Ocean, will be rebroadcast in this coun-
try to the national hook-up of the N.B.C., and
it is probable that the British Broadcasting
Company will do the same in England.

The event, the first of its kind ever to be

held, will also be the first debate between Har-
vard and Oxford since 1925.

and a 36-25 loss to V. P. I., who took se¢ond !

Wildkittens Score 105
Points to Opponents’ 33
In Winning Three Games

Despite a final defeat at the hands of the
Duke Freshmen team, the Davidson Wildkit-
tens enjoyed a most successful season on the
gridiron this fall. Coaches Laird and Unger
placed an eleven on the field which showed great
abilities and which gives promise of adding
plenty of reserves to the varsity for the com-
ing seasons.

This year’s edition of the Wildkittens showed
that they were well trained in every depart-
ment of the game. When they found the going
tough they offered a ‘stubborn defense, and
when they met supposedly weaker foes they
flashed an offense which was hard to stop.

The Kittens won three of their five games
for a percentage of .600 for the season. They
defeated Wofford College Freshmen, . 44-6, in
their first game; lost to a powerful N. C. State
Freshman team by a 14-7 score in their second
game; crushed Presbyterian Junior College, 36
to 0; downed Oak Ridge Military Institute,
18-6 in their Armistice Day game at Greens-
boro, and closed the season with a 7-0 loss to
a powerful Duke Freshman eleven.

Coach Laird’s and Unger’s proteges crossed
their opponents’ goal line seventeen times and
converted for extra points three times for a
total of 105 points scored. Their goal was
crossed only five times and three extra points
were counted against them by their opponents,
who gathered a total of 33 points,

Hutchins, fast-stepping halfback, won indi-
vidual scoring honors, by crossing the goal line
four times and converting one extra point for
25 points. He was colsely followed by Morris,
who ran for four touchdowns after catching
passes, to count. 24 points. MacKorell, who
was forced out of the last two games because
of injuries, was next in the line of scoring with
13 points to his credit. Wingfield and Smathers,
both halfbacks, scored two touchdowns each.

The Kittens average 21 points a game to
their opponents’ six and three-fifths. The third
quarter proved to be the largest scoring period
for the Kittens. They gathered a total of 43
points in that period as compared with 25 scored
in the second quarter, 24 in the fourth and 13
in the first. In their games with Wofford
Freshmen and Presbyterian Junior College they
crossed the opponents’ goal at least once in
every period.

Sophs Lead Inter-Class
Volley Ball Tournament

Much interest is being shown by the stu-
dents in the class volley ball tournament. The
first series of games was played last Thursday,
November 19, on the two courts in front of
Georgia Dormitory, each team playing two
games in one day. The opening game was a
very interesting one between the Seniors and
the Freshmen, in which the Seniors were vic-
torious. The same day the Fresh lost their other
game to the Juniors, and also the Sophomores
won from both Seniors and Juniors. All four
classes have excellent teams and as a result all
scores were fairly close.

The teams are each composed of nine men
and, in the tournament, play every other team
for the best two out of three games; a game
being when one team scores 15 points. The cap-
tains of the teams are as follows: Seniors,
Bennett Moseley; Juniors, J. E. Boyd; Sopho-
mores, T. H. McCallie, and Freshmen, Duke
Glasgow.

The second series of games in the class vol-
ley ball tournament played last Friday, No-
vember 20, was probably the most interesting
in the tournament so far. Every game was close,
for all the teams were putting out their best.
However, the Seniors lost to the Freshmen and
also to the Juniors, but both Juniors and Fresh
lost to the Sophomores. The tournament is to
be brought to a close this week.

The standings at the end of the second series
are?

Team Wi. 1s) Ret;
SODNOMONES (sees coce cL ee ee Se ee 4 0 1.000
N UNIONS seers caso Se Seve sees .500
SeniOrs) soocccecceccucasteceveus 13 .250
BReshmel ssosceeeccucouccseoue a. eG .250

Tentative Basketball
Schedule

Saturday, Jan. 9—Carolina__Charlotte
Monday, Jan. 11—Furman-_..Davidson
Friday, Jan. 29—Duke-------- Durham
Monday, Feb. 1—Duke_-_---- Charlotte
Thursday, Feb. 4—Erskine (?)
Wednesday, Feb. 10—N. C. State
SetSen Soe eee el eesee Raleigh
Thursday, Feb. 11—Carolina
Chapel Hill
Saturday, Feb. 13—College of Charles-
Davidson

|
|

|

Norfolk

& 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 hty 4» Ay 4» 4 fy fy ty fy fe 4 fy tr te fy fo fy fo, hy te, hy,

AAA AAAAAAhK AAA MMM he me

. COLD STADIUM STEPS

.... . they bold no terrors
for these football-leather moccasins
with “Darex” soles... S650

‘Here are Genuine Moccasins that lick cold, wet football days to a fare-the-well...
leave your feet all “set’’‘for the snake dance to follow.

The DAREX soles stick, with bulldog tenacity to even the slipperiest surface —
shed water like a duck's back — keep feet dry always, in any weather.

’ They're made from the same sturdy pebble-grain leather as the official ‘D & M’ football.

Be sure to mail your Football Prediction Contest Blank to Contest
Editor, Hofbeimer’s, Inc, Norfolk, Va. — before Wednesday 25th,

See our College representative, Mr. H. D. Cashion

HOFHEIMER’

Richmond

Portsmouth

POO OVVVVVVVV VG FVGVVVVVVVVVVVVVVYG

<
