—e

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 9, 1932

—

7

DAVIDSON WILL CLASH
WITH TAR HEELS HERE

(Continued from page 1)
fullback, and giving the signals.
George Barclay, guard, injured in the setto
with N. C. State, has recovered and will take
his place in the Blue line against the Wild-
cats. June Underwood, the highly-touted
Carolina center, who: was converted from a
tackle, will.havea chance to show his wares.
The ‘Heels have an array of second-string
backs that_can_also-be-called-into-action, and
give a good account of themselves. This list
includes Peacock, Croom, Martin, Lassiter,
and Woolen.

Davidson has” easily as brilliant an array
of stars to send against “Chuck” Collins’
boys. McElrath, who has played a whale of
a game at center all season, will in all prob-
ability be out of the Carolina fracas, due to
injuries received in the game with State
last Saturday. It is likely that West wilt
get the call, although the injured «Captain
Gardner is speedily recovering, and may see
action Saturday. Jim Batte, understudy,
made an excellent showing against State.
Willson at fullback made an excellent show-
ing. That little dynamo showed his heels
tothe State boys several times, and turned
in great defensive work. Peabody’s place-
kicking ability may be needed against Caro-
lina, and he is an almost sure starter, as he
is an exceptionally fine blocking back.

A good punting duel should ensue between
the two southpaws, Charlie Pearce of Da-
vidson and Henry Burnett, Sophomore flash
from Carolina. ‘Johnny Mackorell can handle
Davidson’s punting assignment in a pinch,
as can Jim Morgan, versatile Wildcat end.
Johnny Peacock can hold his own, too, ‘if the
Tar Heels should need him.

Both teams are sprucing up their passes,
and it may be that on Saturday the air will
be filled with passes in an effort to score.
Martin and Walker are star Carolina re-
ceivers, but Morgan and Morris will be in
there to snag them for the ’Cats.

The probable starting line-ups are listed
below:

ler at

Davidson Position Carolina
Morgan -<-..._.2..%. ) 1D Se eae Walker
Warner {2222200 2| | BA Bi pesie eee Hodges

Hand or Ogden ----L.G.__Kahn or Philpotts
West or Garner __Center Underwood

Rives ise as Barclay
Whitheld: co. Rig Smith
MOPisne. oon te UW oese ney Brandt
Peabody Burnett
Deatce Soe Mee Daniel
Mackorell) “25.2223 Rian oe | Phipps
Willson--sesc 2 Chandler

DR. C. DARBY FULTON SPEAKS
ON JAPANESE CHRISTIANS

(Continued from page~1)

Kagawa, the great Christian of the Orient
and one of the greatest in the world, was
born the son of a wealthy land-owner. His
father was a dissolute man in moral char-
acter and at a rather early age Kagawa’'s-
uncle adopted him. His uncle was also a&
very rich man and of good social standing
in Japan.

While in Tokashiwa, where he now lives,
Kagawa met Dr. Charles Logan, a Presby-
terian missionary who taught a small group

“Of Japanese the Bible along with some Eng-
lish. The Japanese were very anxious to
learn English and in, this way Dr. Logan
taught them about Christ. (Kagawa soon
became more interested in the Bible than in
just merely the English and asked for spe-
cial lessons from Dr. Logan, which were
readily given.

Kagawa told his uncle he was going to be
a Christian, which brought forth many
threats, but they were of no avail. As he
learned more, he wanted to tell the rest of
Japan about Christ and decided to become
a minister’ Kagawa was about eighteen
years old at this time. His uncle told him
if he became a minister he would be disin-
herited. With nothing to gain, and riches
and position to lose, he entered a theological
seminary at Kobe.

While there he not only showed genius in
his studies but also he seemed more inter-
ested in helping the, people in the slums of
Kobe. The people there lived in the most
wretched conditions and he went down there
daily to help them. He contracted tuber-
culosis from working in the germ-infested
slums and had to go to a little city on the
seashore to, as most people thought, die.
While there he wrote an autobiography of
himself to pass away the time. Eventually
he recovered and went to the mountains to
preach until he was fully strengthened. He
then went back to the seminary and finished
his course.

Dr. Fulton met him while he was at
Princeton and graduated in the same class
with him in 1915, ter graduation Kagawa
went back to Ja and back to the slums
of Kobe. :

He is now at the head of the largest
Christian movement in Japan, called the

its goal one million converts to the Chris-
tian religion in three years.

THREE ONE-ACT PLAYS
GIVEN BY DRAMATISTS

(Continued from page 1)

the cabin of a moonshiner in the mountains
of North Carolina. That inimitable Dave
McLean, a seasoned trouper, had the role
of Luke Hazy, a moonshiner who was de-
termined to kill that threat-
ened his still. Nicholas Moss, a newcomer
to the Davidson stage, was excellent in the
role of the revenue officer. Moss comes: to
Davidson from William and Mary College
where he was quite active in dramatics and
is quite-talented along that line. This sketch
was. thoroughly entertaining throughout.

The next play that the Masquers present-
ed was. under the direction of Jack Wil-
liams, Jr., and was entitled “The Ghost of
Jerry Bundler,” written by Jacobs and Rock.
The cast of this production was drawn en-
tirely from the Freshman As the
title implies, this play was one of mystery
and supernatural elements. A group of trav-
elers that were thrown together in an old
English tavern gave the background for the
events. Jerry Bundler, a highwayman that
was killed in the tavern, haunted the place
with his presence. Due to stage effects and
dimmed lights, an air of mystery was well
carried out through the entire performance.
An undetermined wealth of Freshman talent
was uncovered in this production. The cast
of characters for the play was as follows:

a “revenuer”

class.

PONntOldes Ses sccs coksec ce ees Joe Dees
Ma Colm: sce ctte coer e sy Bob Lindsay
Sothers-<=-sz2ssscscescccs Bob Johnston
Doctor Leek avez oo acco els Mills Taylor
BOldONetecscern ces eee nee Paul Harlan
PR PSteuscce cco pa— rae! Mosely Faison
GCOrg es 22 es hee eee Roger Riley

Director—Jack Williams.

Stage Manager—Lyman Clardy.

Stage Assistant—Don Stewart.

The last play in the series was a most
entertaining and delightful one. “A Game
of Chess,” by Arthur Goodman, was under
the direction of Edward Hancock, president
of the Red and Black Masquers. The scene
was laid in the chamber of a royal house
of Rusgsia, several years before the World
War. Wills Hollingsworth as the Crown
Prince Alexis showed much talent and gave
a very convincing performance. Grainger
Williams as the peasant that tried to poison
the Crown Prince was also good in his part.
After being convinced that the Crown
Prince was his foster brother, the peasant,
Boris, loses his first desire to kill the prince
and decides to take poison with the Prince
instead. The peasant dies from the poison
while the Prince does not as he had pre-
pared himself for such an emergency by pre-
viously taking poison in’ small doses to ac-
custom his system:to it. This play was a fit-
ting conclusion to an excellent performance
given by the Masquers.

The cast of characters for “A Game of
"Chess";

Alexis Alexandrovitch--Wills Hollingsworth
Boris Ivanovitch Shamrayoff___.G. Williams
Constantine 22222222 eee Gordon Wood
Footman Henry Hodgin

Stage Director—Ed Hancock.

Stage Manager—Fritz Byerly.

Stage Assistant—Frank Cade.

CAPT. COCHRAN GIVES
TALK AT PHI MEETING

(Continued from page 1)
more than:a figurehead. As to the matter
of indepedence, the captain declared himself
in favor of our retention of the Islands, on
the grounds that if they were freed, though
they themselves.dq not seem to recognize
the fact, their export trade in sugar, now
free from duty into this country, would: be
considerably crippled, and the native govern-
ment would probably run amuck. He said,
in conclusion, that he expected, in the event
of the Democrats winning the election, the
Filipinos might finally receive their inde-
pendence. é

Another interesting feature of the evening
was an exceptional reading by Stuart Noblin
of excerpts from Miss Cornelia Shaw’s fine
history of Davidson College. The selections
had to do with events in the history of the
Philanthropic Society, notable among which
revealed the little known fact that several
well known Confederate Generals, such as
Lee and Johnson, were honorary members
of the club. :
tion of six new men into the society.

It was ‘said that the next meeting will
have on its program the initiation of sev-
eral more new members, and a debate by
the new men just received into the organ-
ization, with refreshments served. Also new
officers will be elected. The present officers
are: President, D. D. McBryde; Vice-Presi-
dent, Wilbur Fugate; Secretary, Cameron
Deans; Treasurer, Herbert Lucas; Critic,
Stuart Noblin, and First Supervisor, John

Kingdom of God Movement, which has as

Vass.

The meeting was terminated by the initia-

SIGMA DELTA PI FRAT
FORMS SPANISH CLUB

(Continued from page 1)

who shall perform their usual duties in both
organizations.

4. The only fees in connection with mem-
bership in the Spanish Club shall be a fee
of one dollar+for initiation.

5. The meetings of the Spanish Club shall
take place at the same time and place as
those of Sigma Delta Pi, unless otherwise
stated- by ‘the president.

6. Members of the Spanish Club may be
Assigned work on programs and committees
by the proper officers of Sigma Delta Pi.

7. All members of Sigma Delta Pi are ex-
officio members of the Spanish Club, with-
out payment of any fee.

8.
be conducted only by members of said fra-
ternity.

9, Matters concerning the Spanish Club.
as distinct from Sigma Delta .Pi, shall be
handled by members of the club, but’ the
Sigma Delta Bi“may' veto any proposition
approved by the-Spanish Club, by a two-
thirds vote of Sigma Delta Pi members, and
this vote shall be final.

10. Sigma Delta Pi may invite to mem-
bership, at any time, such members of the
Spanish Club as qualify for membership,
but membership in the Spanish Club does

All, business of Sigma Delta Pi shall

not, in itself, render a student a future mem-
ber of Sigma Delta Pi.

At the next meeting names of men eligible

A Flashy Halfback

GEORGE WINGFIELD HAL EBACK

-}an hour and a half.

—

for the Spanish Club will be submitted and_
voted upon.

MEDICAL STUDENTS. TO
TAKE APTITUDE TESTS

(Continued from page 1)

tain to complete his work in time for en-
trangé into some medical college in the fall
of 1938. The test is given only once a year.

The test will be given in all the colleges
on the same datc, according to the plans of
the committee. It will begin at 3 o’clock on
the afternoon of December 9; and will last
A fee of one dollar will
be charged each applicant if order to defray
the expenses of the committee.

SCABBARD AND BLADE
‘BIDS PROMINENT MEN

(Continued from page 1)
Organization are Captain Paul Brown, Cap-
tain George Bailey, Captain R. E. Conoley,
First Lieutenant Bill Flinn, First Lieutenant
A. M. Manson, and J. C. McConnell.

The members of Scabbard and Blade are
carefully chosen from the Senior class for
proficiency in military tactics and high char-
acter.

The regular Scabbard and Blade initiation

will be held in the near future:

To the ALUMNI

When our college days are over,
And our ways shall part,

Still in thee we'll be united,
Still be one in heart.

x

THE DAVIDSONIAN WELCOMES YOU TO

HOMECOMING, NOVEMBER 12

YEARLY SUBSCRIPTION, $2.00

A. M. MANSON, tiihier

CHARLEY PEARCE -HALFEACK

BRUCE PEABODY—BACK

ALTERNATE CAPT. WHITFIELD

PROBABLE BACKFIELD TO MEET CAROLINA

"EB "WILL SON-WALFBACK

WATCH THESE BACKS SATURDAY
