6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 17, 1932

Rotarians Entertained
By Davidson Delegates

Extra-curricula Activities of College
Outlined at Luncheon Held
Tuesday

From “Charlotte
was quite so

Observer”
“T never proud of Davidson

College as I am right now,” declared Dr. Wal-

ter L. Lingle, president of the institution, at
the conclusion of the program presented at the
weekly meeting of Charlotte Rotary Club

yesterday.

It was Dr. Lingle’s address to the club and
the expression of his reaction to the manner
in which a group of students hid portrayed life
on the campus to a section of the outside pub-
lic. Dr. Lingle had been expected to make a
brief address as the concluding feature of the

Davidson Collegé program, but it was past

time for adjournment, owing to the several |
talks and musical numbers presented by  stu-
dents. So the president made the one remark |
and sat down. |

Carl Pritchett, of Reidsville, in a brief, rapid-
fire talk, had just portrayed the: religious at- |
mosphere of the college campus and the activi-
ties of the Y. M. C. A., picturing the institution
as one where great stress is laid upon the de-
velopment of the spiritual; William M. Rule,
of Knoxville, Tenn., had told the story of Da-
vidson"’s record in intercollegiate debating, in
which she holds high rank; T. M. MelLean, of
Charlotte, had told how Davidson ranks in
scholarship, which he showed is emphasized out |
of all proportion to what one wduld suppose
from reading the newspaper sports pages; and
Don King, of Bristol, Tenn., president of the |
student body, had described student government
at Davidson, particularly the honor system,
which makes cheating, gambling, drinking and |
other misconduct offenses against one’s fellow |
students, to be dealt with by a court of their |
own representatives.

The entertainment feature of the meeting was
furnished by a double quartet of Davidson stu-
dents composed of Pete M. Dulin, Charlotte;
Charles M. Noffleet, Winston-Salem; Wm. M.
Rule, Knoxville; Riley Powell, Lawrenceville, |
Ga.; Eugene DuBose, China; George Parding-
ton, Decatur, Ga.; David McLain, Cleveland,
Tenn., and W. A. McKeithan, Aberdeen, with
W. E. McNair, Atlanta, Ga., accompanying at
the piano.

I’. L. Jackson, treasurer of the college, Char-
lotte members of the Davidson Board of Trus-
tees, and others were guests. Harry P. Hard-
ing was program chairman for the day.

George M. Ivey, president, announced that |
next week’s meeting of the club will be held |
Wednesday at 1 o'clock instead of Tuesday, on
account of a larger and special meeting being
held in the Chamber of Commerce at 1 o'clock
Tuesday.

PRES. W. H. FRAZER
(Continued from page 1)
only found happiness and joy, but came into the |
direct line of Christ.

The speaker used another illustration to show |
how God uses us so that we may live richer |
and nobler lives. A famous opera singer was |
talking to a critic after a performance and |
asked him to criticize her singing. He replied |
that he thought she had a wonderful voice, that |
he liked her technique and artistic ability, but |
that he would like to woo, love, and win her |
and then jilt her so that she could put real feel-
ing and emotion into her art. |

The colored quartet that rendered the special |
music was composed of local negro farmers, |
under the direction and management of Jim |
Scales, janitor. of Rumple Dormitory. They
sang three selections, two before the speaker |
and one at the completion of his address, The
first two were “Hallowed Be Thy Name,”
“She’s Scandalizing My Name,” and the con-
cluding number was “Working for the Lord.”
The men that made up the quartet were Reg-
inald Jones, first tenor; Mazoone Sherald, :lead-
er and second tenor (soprano lead according |
to the manager, Jim Scales) ; William Hender- |
son, baritone, and John Stevens, bass.

This is the first time they have ever sung

together and they were greatly enjoyed by the
audience,

DR. GARTH CHOOSES “RACE
PSYCHOLOGY” AS SUBJECT

(Continued from page 1)

from negroid to the Caucasien, A part of this
theory is still accepted as true, but the greater
part has been proved erroneous. The oldest the-
ory, however, claims it to be impossible to pass
from one type to the other because of the fact
that the races are fixed and remain unchange-
able. ‘

Dr. Garth made the statement that in all his
study and research he had not found any fun-
damental difference between’ races that could
be described as universal. For instance, many
people used to and still do believe that the wild
tribes and savages possess better and keener
senses of smelling, seeing, and hearing than the
civilized people. He stated that this was a
‘grave misconception, for through strict tests,
psychologists have proved it ‘untrue. He admit-

like the idea of my smoking.

“The first time I lit a Chesterfield
in front of him, he sniffed like an
old war-horse...and I braced myself
for trouble. But all he said was,
*That’s good tobacco, Chickabiddy.’

You know Grandfather raised

tobacco in his younger days,

knows what’s what. I don’t, of course
—but I do know that Chesterfields
It’s wonderful to be
able to smoke whenever you want,
v'th no fear you’ll smoke too many.

are milder.

@ Wrapped in Du Pont Number 300 Moisture-proof
Cellophane...the best and most expensive made!

THEY'RE MILDER © ¢ THEY'RE PURE « © THEY TASTE BETTER * © They Salis f

| was atraid (3
would be: Sibwaded..

4 | [es rather a bossy old darling,
and I didn’t know how he’d

ter...that’s proof enough.

so he

say..." They Satisfy!’”

“And it doesn’t take a tobacco
expert to prove that Chesterfield
tobaccos are better. They taste bet-

too sweet. No matter when I smoke
them...or how many I smoke...
they always taste exactly right.
“They must be absolutely pure...
even to the paper which doesn’t
taste at all. In fact...as the ads

Never

randtather

Liccetr &

© 1932,
M BACCO Co.

CHESTERFIELD’S
RADIO PROGRAM

Nat Shilkret’s Orchestra and
Alex Gray, well-known soloist,
will entertain you over the
Columbia Coast-to-Coast Net-

work every night, except Sun-
day, at 10:30 E. S. T.

ized tribes were more fully developed than in
the civilized nations, and at the same time the
converse was also true. “So far as personality,
concentration, resistance to mental fatigue and
other traits are concerned,” the speaker went
on to say, “they all appear in equal degree
among all races. So you may see that it is
slowly being discovered that race traits of all
kinds do not exist, and psychologists therefore
despair of a true definition of race.”

In closing, Dr. Garth stated that she did not
wish to pose as a propagandist, for he is mere-
ly an investigator seeking the truth, but he
thought that although superiority and inferior-
ity exist, regardless of color or facial expres-
sion or bodily shape, the difference of races is
due to racial eugenics, education, and nurture
of all sorts, and that one race may only have
temporary advantage of another.

Having studied and experimented with indi-
viduals in the South and West, Dr. Garth had
a collection of very interesting slides of the
types of Indians, Whites, Mexicans, and Ne-
groes which he used during the course of his
lecture to illustrate certain points of interest
and importance.

ALUMNI DEATHS

(Continued from page 4)
where he was awarded a bachelor of arts degree.
Mr. Springs went to Oklahoma in early man-
hood, and he spent the greater portion of his
life in business in the mid-west, but returned
to North Carolina some years ago. He had been

ted, however, that certain traits in the uncivil-

living in Charlotte since his return.

“TEX” TILSON’S GOING

(Continued from page 1)

Brock of the 1930 eleven. All of these men
either made all-state or were prominently men-
tioned for that honor, Tex Tilson is respon-
sible for their excellent work.

Another of the reasons why the student body
dislikes to see the “Chief,” as he is called by
his colleague, “Monk” Younger, depart, is be-
cause of the great respect and affection for
him as a man. “Tex” faultlessly typified David-
son ideals. He stood for honor both on and off
the playing field. He encouraged scholastic ad-
vancement. He demanded fight, determination,
and fairness. What’s more, Coach Tilson prac-
ticed what he preached. He was a living ex-
ample of those ideals he sought to inculcate
in the lives of his proteges. ;

When “Tex” goes up to V. P. I., he carries
the best wishes of the Davidson faculty, stu-

‘dent body, and alumni with him. Considerable

is expected of “Tex” at that institution. All
that is asked is that he continue his good work
in his new position.

From the point of service, “Tex” Tilson and
“Monk” Younger are the state’s two “oldest”
coaches. They both came here from V. P. J.
Tex stepped right off the V. P. I. gridiron
into the position of line coach at Davidson. At
V. P.. I, Coach Tilson was tackle and captain
of the team in his Senior year. At that insti-
tution, “Tex’’’ was recently chosen as the great-
est tackle ever to don a V. P. I. uniform. He
was noted for his fight, ability, and knowledge

of the game. All of these admirable qualities
were reflected in his coaching.

Tex also tutored in track and had charge
of the wrestling activities for a period of four
years. Both of these branches of athletics flour-
ished under his regime,

Much more could be said about Tex, but a
fitting conclusion might be added here. Tex
was a “true Wildcat.”

ANNUAL JUNIOR SPEAKING

(Continued from pgae 1)

After having closed a successful season at the
Lake Side Ballroom at Flint, Mich., this past
season, the Collegians are at present on a South-
ern tour during which they are building up an
even bigger reputation for themselves than the
one they gained through their broadcasts over
WLW, WHAS, and several other outstanding
stations.

Unlike many negro orchestras, the: Collegians,
although they are especially good on fast pieces,
are equally good on slow fox trots and waltzes,
and emphasize them just as much as they do
the fast ones. So the orchestra should prove
ideal for a Davidson crowd.

Although the details of the plans for the
week-end are not yet entirely worked out, the
above contains for the most part the schedule
which will be followed.

Comparisons are odious.—Christopher Mar-
lowe.

B. B. SHOTS

(Continued from page 3)

nearly over before getting into form. From
all reports, their two recent losses to Caro-
lina and State weren't half bad. And in the
game with Charleston College last Saturday
night, some of the most brilliant pylaying
of the season was displayed. Charleston was
leading at the half, but the Wildcats’ came
back in the second half ‘to swamp the South
Carolinians, limiting them to only one field
goal. The 'Cats were really “right” during
that half, executing several difficult plays
with lightning speed and clock-work preci-
sion.

What’s wrong with the wrestlers? The
Freshmen have turned in good accounts of
themselves, but the varsity, try as it may,
‘can’t seem to register. Something’s wrong
somewhere:

Basketball season is just about over, bring-
ing baseball and track into the limelight.
Prospects for any sort of baseball team are
far from good, while those for track are
reasonably fair. Much good material will be
available from last year’s Freshman team,
while quite a few of the old maestros and
lettermen will be back.

An honest tale speeds best, being plainly told.
—Shakespeare.
