THE DAVIDSONIAN. APRIL 27, 1932

Chesterfield Radio few

MON. & THUR. TUES. & FRI. WED. & SAT.
BOSWELL ALEX RUTH
SISTERS GRAY ETTING

10:30 p.m, E.0.T. 10:30 p.m.£.0.T. 10 p.m. ED. T.

SHILKRET’S ORCHESTRA every night but Sunday
NORMAN BROKENSHIRE, Announcer
COLUMBIA NETWORK

ogram

Ches

They Saliify

aa

V mild ess

V betteierie
/

say

nallitteins Of smokers

ertfield

...ALL YOU COULD ASK FOR

© 1932, Liccerr & Myars Tospacco Co

Blue Devil Linkmen

in a comedy of errors, and blanked the ‘Cats,
8 to 0. Big Jim McKeithan pitched that game

Are Golf Champions | ,,, the Devils, and is expected to hurl against
———— | ean | a SES NHR aie st :

The Wildcat: golf team returned Saturday | city, ne ae pe male age er
from a rather unsuccessful golf trip to Sedge- | poison a ee
field Country Club in Greensboro, dropping}  ”—
matches to Carolina and Duke and winning by |
forfeit from N. C. State. On this trip the Cats |
also competed in the State College Golf Tour- | aye ea,
nament, placing third. | (Continued from pgae 1)

In the Carolina match Davidson fell before | senting the N. A. O., at Trinity Memorial
the Tar Heels by the score of 15-3, Manson | Anglican Church. -It is needless to speak of

FAMOUS ORGANIST

alone of the ’Cats took his match, winning over
O’Brien, 2-1.

In the Duke match Davidson lost, 13-5. John
D. McConnell, the only successful Davidson
player, deféated his opponent, June Caldwell,
3-1.

The State golf machine broke up on the eve
of the day of play and forfeited to Davidson.

After this match the ’Cats competed in the
State Collegiate Tournament over the same
course. In this meet the ’Cats placed third,
Duke and Carolina finished first and second, re-
spectively. Wagner, number one man and cap-
tain of the Wildcats, placed third in individual
scoring by turning in a card of 76-74—150.

BALL SQUAD WILL PLAY

(Continued from page 3)
contests with the University of North Carolina,
Duke, N. C. State, and Wake Forest. Coach
Laird is taking a strong squad along with four
capable hurlers in Croker and West right-hand-
ers, and Bailey and Pearce, portsiders.

The game with N. C. State will be the first
encounter the two teams have had this year, as
the Red Terrors have not invaded Richardson
Field this season. However,’ the ’Cats will be
out for revenge in the Tar Heel imbroglio, as
the boys from Chapel Hill nosed out Davidson,
8-7, in their annual Easter Monday classic in
Winston-Salem.

The Demon Deacons and the Blue Devils
have both been met previously, and rather dis-
astrously for the locals, as Wake Forest sank
them by a 4 to 1 score, and Duke ran rampant

| Miss Lockwood's playing: whatever there is in

a set of pipes she will discover and bring out
in the most effective manner and the result will
sparkle with more than a touch of genius. This
recital’ was no exception and everyone in the
large audience remained to the end and doubt-
less wished it might, have been longer, which is
saying a great deal.”

The following is an extract from a recent
letter of Dean C. G. Vardell, Jr., of Salem Col-
lege:

“T have known Miss Lockwood
years and heard her play several times. She is
a master of the highest attainments. She is na-
tionally known and has played recitals all over
the United States. The last recital that I know
of was at Ann Arbor at the University of
Michigan where she was received with enthusi-
asm. Her playing is scholarly, clean cut and
well planned; at the .same time it is very
poetic in feeling. and is brilliant to a high de-
gree. She plays the most difficult compositions
with ease and mastery. I think it is
fortunate for Davidsonians to have the privil-
ege of hearing her.”

for some

WILDKITTEN NINE WINS

(Continued from page 3)

a slow procession of runs during the entire con-
test. Ball Creek had seven men left on bases
and lost several chances to score because of bad
base running.

Tuttle, of Ball Creek, pitched a nice game,
fanning 14 men, but his teammates gave. him
little support. Becker, Kgeshman southpaw,

indeed |

H ;
of sinful men

fanned only five men, but only two of the nine
hits resulted in scores.

DR. THOMPSON

(Continued from page 1)

the last thing, he went on to say, is the books
that we read. This above all should be watched
so that we will not begin to read cheap stories
or books and thus clutter our minds with evil
rather than good. A good book will, however,
lead the mind through a clean and more whole
some line of thought us
clean way.

Dr. Thompson stated that he had often felt,
and that he knew that most of us had at some
time felt, that he had worked himself into such
a place that he just must quit and give up to
the temptation. of the easy way. He statedythere
was but ohne way to get out of such a position

or may amuse in a

and that was to just pitch right in and tackle

the job and carry through with the thing until
the end. To do this a man must, as it were,
wake up. He must realize that life is not easy
as it may seem and that he must fight to win,
if he ever expects to. This waking up could
be done by separating the temptations for good
from the temptations for evil and following the
former.

“The greatest temptation for right living,”
Dr. Thompson proceeded, “is our Lord Jesus
Christ, who by His life and His death chal-
lenged us to higher things. The Cross on which
Christ hung symbolizes Sin. Can we who pro-
fess to love and follow Him, follow the very

| thing to which He was nailed? “Sinful men

put Him there, can I who profess to be a
Christian, turn from Him and follow this throng

The speaker urged us, therefore, to prepare
ourselves by Bible reading and by prayer. He
said that some of; us are too busy to prepare for
temptations or are too busy to ask Christ's
help. He pleaded that we avoid this attitude and
have an open heart to all the things of God.

In closing Dr. Thompson stated that the fact
that Christ is here today is the glory of relig-
ion; the fact that Christ, though He died yet

rose again, is present today sending to us temp-
tations for right living that we may follow them
and be more like Him, “That thing which holds
the center of all our attentions is the thing,” the
professor said, “that almost completely makes
our life.”

MR. W. S. LEE

(Continued from page 1)

Jeauharnois on
which consulting engineer. It is now
practically completed and will be the largest

plant on the St. Lawrence at
he. is

plant of its kind in the world.

After the lecture Mr.
a reception given by the faculty members of
Sigma Pi Sigma for the members of that fra-
ternity, the members of the faculty, and their
wives. After the reception Mr. Lee was made
an honorary member of Sigma Pi Sigma. He
is the first honorary member ever to be ini-
tiated into the Alpha chapter of that organ-
ization. It is an interesting coincidence that
Mr. will speak week at Purdue,
where another chapter of Sigma Pi Sigma has

Lee was a guest at

Lee next

just been installed.

PEARCE LIMITS HORNETS

(Continued from page 3)

Pearce. Los-
Pond and

Kermode (Balton). Wild pitch:
ing pitcher: Kermode. Umpires;
Mathis. Time of game: 1:59.

MANAGERS OF CAMPUS

(Continued from page 1)

kins, still another of the campus’ ‘important
men.
All three of these men will assume their re-

sponsibilities next fall.

Deputation Attends
Y.M. C. A. Conference

and
consisting of Sam Wiley, Paul Brown, Jerome
Clark, Leland McKeithan, Jake Mackorell, and
Duck Powell, last week-end attended a confer-
ence of the student Y. M. C. A. leaders of this

A delegation representing the local “Y”

state at Chapel Hill. The conference lasted from
Friday afternoon until Sunday morning. During
this period the delegates were the guests of the
Carolina Student Y. M. C. A., and were lodged
in two of the fraternity houses.

On Friday night the members of the confer-
ence attended a lecture on “Religion and Sci-
ence,” by Dr. Robert Millikan. Dr, Millikan is
the director of California Tech and is the man
that Albert Einstein to this
country to consult.

Professor came

Saturday morning Dr. Frank P. Graham,
president of the university, addressed the rep-
resentatives, taking as his subject, “America
Needs Leaders.’ Following this inspiring mes-
sage, Dean Milner, of Guilford, led a discussion.

The Saturday afternoon session was the busi-
ness session. At that time Sam Wiley was elect-
ed treasurer of the conference for next year
and Paul Brown was elected to serve as vice-
president of the State “Y’’ Cabinet for the same
period. Bill McKee is president of the confer-
ence for next year and Archie Ward is presi-
dent of the cabinet. McKee is from Carolina ;
Ward is from State. The conference is to be
held at Duke University next year. The name

which was selected is “The North Carolina
Y. M. ©. A.-Y. W. C. A. Officers Training

Conference.”

The first exercise on Sunday morning was
Morning Watch and it was conducted by Rev.
Thomas Wright. Following this service Miss
Elizabeth Smith installed the new officers. The
closing feature was a talk*by Dr. Shelton Smith .
of Duke. 3

About sixty delégates attended and those from
Davidson brought back glowing accounts of a
profitable and enjoyable meeting.
