»

6

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 9, 1932

Undergraduates Start
Incorrect English War

Professors Urged to Use Correct Dic-
tion in All Daily Lectures

New York—(IP)—Columbia University pro-
fessors are getting some of their own “medi-
cine.” It is in the form of a war on the part
of th& undergraduates to force the faculty te
use correct English in the classroom.

Several days ago an editorial appeared in
the Spectator, undergraduate newspaper, in
which 26 members of the faculty were accused
of “murdering the English language.” With the
ingenuity belonging only to college students,
stenographers were immediately rushed to the
classes of these “profs” and word for word
reports were made of their lectures.

But the faculty were wise enough to have
taken the editorial to heart, and not a split
infinitive was caught.

The students promised, however, to continue
their efforts until every offender had
caught red-handed.

Then the sniping went right up to President

been

Nicholas Murray Butler himself, with doubtful
success. One of the president’s sentences was |
submitted to Frank H. Vizetelly, dictionary |
editor, and it came back marked, “O. K.” as
to the point raised, and “N. G.” as to a point |
the students. had missed.

Dr. Butler was reported to have said: “Save |
the ancient Roman Empire and Great Britain, |
no people in history have ever been so closely |
interviewed with the wholly civilized world as |
are the American people today.”

The students had their fingers on the usage
of “has” and “are.” |

Vizetelly said that was permissable. |

But, the dictionary editor ruled, the word |
“other” should have been placed between the |
words “no” and “people.” Otherwise, he said, |
the sentence excluded in the characterization |
the very people it included later, He called it |
a very common error.
One of the chief errors charged against the |
faculty as a whole by the students was the use |
of the word “don't” when it should have been
“doesn't.” One instructor was accused of con-
cluding a with: “If anyone has any
questions to ask they should ask them now.”

lecture

College Briefs

Cumberland University has a Greek grave-
yard in which are buried the memories of fif-
teen chapters of Greek-letter fraternities which
have passed on here since 1854, Four of the
chapters died during the Civil War, and the
other eleven just died natural deaths in years
since then.

In their fight for the right to smoke in
sorority houses, co-eds at Northwestern Uni-
versity have used the name of no less than
Frances Willard, founder of the
Christian Temperance Union.

Women's |

Miss Jean Van Evera, women's editor of the |
Daily Northwestern, undergraduate newspaper, |
said she had discovered in old files of the paper |
that the temperance leader at least once had |
been tempted to try a cigarette—and got caught.

“According to the files,” Miss Van Evera
said, “a preceptress came into Miss Willard’s |
room and saw smoke curling from a bureau
drawer. Pulling open the drawer, she was hor-
rified to find a_half-burned cigarette. Miss
Willard apparently was like any other girl.”

Mrs, Edson Fowler, president of the Quad-
rangle Club, at the university, issued the ban
against the smoking in the sorority houses, The
club supervises the houses.

Students at Ohio Northern College have pe-
titioned the university officials to end the an-
cient ban against dancing at the institution.

The petitions called the condition on the
campus “grossly unfair, unjust and oppressive,”
and appealed to the university administration
for social freedom.

An X-ray taken by Dr. Victor Gottheiner,
sports physician, reveal that the heart of Paavo
Nurmi, the Finnish record sprinter, is three
times normal size.

Movie technique is being used by University
of Pennsylvania authorities, co-operating with
the Board of Religious Education of the Pres-
byterian Church, to increase church attendance.

Among other attractions is a moving picture
with the well-known jumping ball, thrown on
the screen to lead the audience in singing
hymns.

Slides illustrating the life of Christ are
thrown on the screen, and phonograph instead
of organ music accompanies them.

Among the acquisitions of the Columbia Uni-
versity Library in the last year is the oldest
dictionary extant in Japan. The book is a manu-
script dating from 1181 A.D., covering 500
pages and containing, 3,000 words.

The British love liberty for themselves; it
is only a step further to love liberty for other

Copr., 1932, The
American Tobacco

fant

4

‘There are

no better cigarettes”

“I have always used LUCKIES—as far as lam concerned
there are no better cigarettes—congratulations also on

HE BOBBED UP SMILING
Bob Montgomery has been an iron
worker, deck hand, railroad
and a

b d

it extra

last 7 years ..

“Thank You.”

in Hollywood . . . He zoomed to
the top in noise-reels because the
gals were cuh-razy over his grin
. . + And they'll go completely
zooey when they see him in his
latest M-G-M, “PRIVATE LIVES’*
. . . He's stuck to LUCKIES these
- Not a buffalo
nickel was paid for his statement
-.- He gave it just for a pleasant

your improved Cellophane wrapper with that little tab
that opens your package so easily.” en Weary eer

“It’s toasted”

Your Throat Protection —against irritation—against cough

And Moisture-Proof Cellophane Keeps that “Toasted” Flavor Ever Fresh

Thursday and Saturday evening over N. B. C. networ!

v

TUNE IN ON LUCKY STRIKE—60 modern minutes with the world’s finest dance orchestras and Walter Winchell, whose gossip
of today becomes the news of tomorrow, every Tuesday, ks.

A

Trophy Presented
Local Social Group

Delta Kappa Chapter of Phi Gamma Delta,
national social fraternity located at Davidson
College, has been formally presented with the
Newton D. Baker Social Service cup.at the
annual initiation banquet. Cecil J. Wilkinson,
of Washington, D. C., national secretary of the
fraternity, made the presentation to A. R. Bird,
Jr., of Winston-Salem, a 1931 graduate of Da-
vidson and last year president of the local chap-
ter of Phi Gamma Delta.

The cup, a beautiful sterling silver bowl
about 18 inches high, is presented annually in
honor of Newton D. Baker, himself a member
of the fraternity, to the chapter which ranks
highest in religious and social service activi-
ies. The Davidson group was given the cup
over 72 chapters in the national fraternity. This
is the first time in the 14 years that the award
has been made that it has come to a Southern
College.

Corps Riflemen to
Fire Gastonia Team

Announcement was made Wednesday that
Gastonia’s Rifle Club has arranged a match
with the rifle team of Davidson College that
will be held in the local shooting gallery near
the city lake at Gastonia on next Tuesday night,
March 8th, at 7:30. Gastonia’s competing team

people.—Gandhi.
[.

will be chosen from the Gastonia club, which

consists of R. J. Frieze, H. M. Van Sleen,
Dr. R. H. Parker, Mart Shuford Reid, Dr.
W. M. Jones, Dr. D. E. McConnell, W. G,
McLean, A. J. Melvin and Dr. H. R. McCon-
nell,

The rifle teams use special .22 calibre target
rifles and shoot at minute targets from-a dis-
tance of 75 feet. Anyone interested in this type
of shooting is cordially invited to attend the
match next Tuesday night.

FACULTY ENGAGE IN
“MANY MEETINGS

(Continued from page 1)
duty in the islands and his lecture will be sup-
plemented by two motion picture reels of life
in the islands. The reels also include the sink-
ing of the old U. S. S. Alabama by gun fire
and aerial bombing.

A telephone that uses a beam of light instead
of a copper wire for transmitting sound has
been developed at the University of Idaho by

Dr. Gustaf W. Hammar, head of the physics |

department, and Lawrence W. Foskett, one of
his graduate students.

Originating as a_ scientific ‘experiment, the
discovery opens up an entirely new field of
sound Communication which may be used by
such™agencies as the United’ States Forestry
Service and the Army and Navy Signal Corps.
Dr. Hammar and Foskett modestly explain that
they simply made practical use of scientific
principles which have been known before.

A sensitive photo-electric cell makes the new
light telephone possible. Much like a radio tube
in appearance, the cell detects minute changes
in the intensity of light to which it is exposed.

A year’s investigation into the cause of the

Professor and Mrs. Archibald Currie left | Poison fog which killed cattle and persons in
last Friday to be at the bedside of their sick | Belgium last January has resulted in a report

daughter, Miss Lucy Martin Currie, who is se-
riously ill with pneumonia. Professor Currie
returned home yesterday. Mrs. Currie is to
remain with her daughter until she is com-
pletely out of danger.

Dr. John Wilson MacConnell will attend sev-
eral alumni meetings, including one in New
York on March 15th, one in Philadelphia on
March 17th, and one in Baltimore on March
18th. Dr. MacConnell has just recently re-
turned from a trip to Chicago where he was
one of the guest speakers at the medical con-

, vention there.

that the fog was caused by unusual atmospheric
conditions, which mixed with factory fumes to
form a heavy gas, deadly to those with weak
lungs.

Ernesto Loeck, a German treasure hunter,
has fourtd what he believes to be the strong-
hold containing $25,000,000 worth of coins of
the Tarascan King Calzontzin, in the State of
Michoacan, Mexico. The king disappeared in
1522 after the Spanish conquest.

The child is father of the map.— Wordsworth.

!
| PROF. C. M. HECK. .

| (Continued from page 1)

are helping with this work and report that the
work is coming on wonderfully well. The stu-
dents and the professors of the physics depart-
ment appreciate Mr. Hayes’ gift very much
and are extremely grateful to him for the in-
terest he has taken in Davidson.

| Members of the Massachusetts legislature are
incensed by the discovery that the tablet recent-
ly placed in the State House in memory of re-
|cipients of the Congressional Medal of Honor
contains two misspelled words. An investigation
{has been asked to place responsibility for ac-
| ceptance of the work. The words “conspicu-
| ously” and “‘intrepidity’” appear on the tablet as
“conspicously” and “intrepedity.”

Exploiters now wear dinner coats and buy
toys and ice cream for children—Dr. Park-
hurst.

I don’t mind red-hot bolshevism or socialism,
but what I object to is hypocrisy and hum-
bug.—Lady Astor.

If a nation is required to cut its cloth ac-
cording to a pattern not of its own making, a
misfit is inevitable—Rear Admiral Chase.

The true use of speech is not so much to
express our wants as to conceal them—Oliver
Goldsmith.

