THE

DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 23, 1932

’"GATORS HERE
TODAY

THE SPORTS PARADE

NEXT MEET HERE
APRIL 8TH

}

What could be worse than a Monday after
Junior Speaking weed-end—or any Monday
for that matter! And why wasn’t this ole
world made in six days? But then there
would be Tuesday.

The* Wildcats’ encounter with the Deacons of
Union Theological Seminary last week revealed
a great need for practice if any further prog-
ress is to be made for the rest of the season.
Errors galore were made right and left and the
*Cats made only two hits. It’s true that the
pitcher from the seminary was somewhat of a
professional, having belonged at one time to
the Detroit Tigers, and that fact may have
been responsible in some measure for the poor
hitting displayed by the ’Cats, but the fact re-
mains that quite a bit more rounding out is nec-
essary.

If some of the “Sugar Foot” contestants
of last Friday night could be induced to try
out for the baseball team, what a team we
would have!—that is, if they could ever get
on base.

On Wednesday afternoon, the afternoon this
paper is issued—that eventful afternoon when
everybody finds mail in his box—the Wildcat
cinder packers will open the season against one
of the strongest track teams in the South, the
University of Florida. It is reported that one
of the members of the team, a versatile track
man, is a potential Olympics candidate this sea-
son, and takes part in the hurdles, high jump,
.javelin, and several other events.

=

Prospects for this year’s Wildcat track
team are uncertain at present, but some in-
dication of their relative strength will be
ascertainable by the results of their open-
ing meet.

The most interesting event of the entire base-
ball season is that annual and awe-inspiring
occasion when the members of the faculty lock
horns with the students of the Senior class.
This yearly battle of the century has become
one of the classics of today, and is anticipated
with breathless interest by all who’have watched
previous battles. Long will those of us who
witnessed the classic, struggle of 1931 remember
that memorable inning when Professor Ernie
Cullom spectacularly caught three flies into deep
center, and then strode up to the bat and
cracked out a smashing double over right field.
Whata man! Other noteworthy actions many
remember with a thrill.

The custom of continuing track practice
throughout the home games held here is
one situation which should be remedied in
the near future. Not only is it disconcerting
to the fans but is quite bothersome to the
players, interfering with plays, and taking up
more time than necessary. Imagine the
chagrin. of the opposing pitcher who, hear-
ing the mad patter of feet around first base,
throws the ball to first base in hopes of
catching an unwary base runner off the base,
and sees five or six practically nude figures
striding toward the grandstand to the finish
of a mad 440-yard dash.

Speaking of crowds (which we were not), it
should be mentioned that spectators at baseball
games have in the past displayed little enthusi-
asm, a fact much to be regretted. It’s all well
enough for one to scream out his encouragement
to a bunch of figures dashing to the tape line
faster than Edward's “Tiger Rag,” but it takes
considerably more spirit to shout out encourag-
ing words to a baseball nine playing slow base-
ball.

Excerpt from some “wise guy” letter:
Have you heard the Indian song?—“I Gur-
neau why, I just do.”

an

| Joe Hall, Versatile Florida Athlete, is

"Gators Bring Fast Team |
To Compete With Wildcat |
Cindermen Here Today'|

Main ’Gator Threat in All
Weight Events

‘CATS STRONG IN DASHES

| Florida Undefeated in Dual Meet in
Past Four Years

One of the finest and greatest track teams of |
the South will be met on Richardson Field this
afternoon at 3 o'clock when the University of
Florida cinderpathmen engage the Davidson
College Wildcat tracksters. It will be the open-
ing event for each institution, and the first of
two meets for the Florida institution on this |
trip away from home. |

Davidson will present a team this year on |

which approximately 15 Sophomores will be
members, which makes the Wildcats practically
an unknown quantity in competition. The
coaches, Captain Pritchett and Heath Whittle,
are familiar with what they can do ordinarily,
but how well they stand the strain of active
meéet participation-is- still to bey determined.

The Wildcats lost six of their regulars by
graduation, and the men who will be noticeably
missed are Captain Joe D. McCall in the javelin
and broad jump, and Thad Brock in the javelin,
and Grimy George in the hurdle events. Others
who graduated included Tom Neal in the dis-
tance runs, Pat Boyle fit the weights, and Bob
Hall in the weights.

Davidson will be the racing
events. Among the men who ran last year and
who are still available are Fleagle in the cen-
tury dash and 220-yard sprint, McGehee in the
440-yard run, and Captain Brannon, Earle, and
Howard in the distances.

The University of Florida is bringing an out
fit to Davidson that contains one of the great-
est track men in the South—Joe Hall, who
ranked high in the national decathlon. Hall puts
the shot, hurls the javelin, runs low and high
hurdles, high jumps and broad jumps. And he’s
good in all of these events. Florida lost. some
veterans by graduation last year, but the ma-
jority are back. It is a team that has not lost

strongest in

a dual meet in the past four years.
‘ Davidson's competitors in each event will be:
100-yard, dash—Fleagle, Halyburton and Me-
Millan.
220-yard dash—Fleagle and MeMillan.
440-yard run—McGehee and Halyburton.
880-yard run—Corbin, Cannon, Gwynn.
Mile run—Earle, Howard, Morrow.
Two-mile run—Captain Brannon, Woodside,
and Fitzgerald. .
120-yard high hurdles—McCallie and Pratt.
220-yard low hurdles—McCallie and Little.
Pole vault—Flinn, Roane, Gilmer.
High jump—Martin, Allen, Rhyne.
Broad jump—Flinn, McKinnon, Dickerson.
Shot put—Knox, Wagner, Cochran.
Javelin throw—Johnston, Brown.
Discus throw-~Knox, Bettis, Dill and Coch-
ran,

Davidson Nine Opens

With North Carolina

The Wildcat baseball nine will have their first
college tilt of the season on Faster Monday,
March 28, with the University of North Caro-
lina at Winston-Salem. Davidson and Carolina
did not meet last year due to rain, so the pros-
pects for the Red and Black must be gathered
from the reputation of both teams. Whereas
Carolina seems to be remaining constant in her
good reputation on the diamond, the. Davidson
team seems to be falling a little short in the
batting line. A defeat at the hands of a fast
Union Theological Seminary team may have
taken away a bit of the Wildcats’ confidence,
but at the same time, it gave them a little ex-
perience which the Tar Heels have not yet had.

The battery will be selected from either Croker, |

Pierce, or Bailey, all veteran hurlers. |

track coach of the University of Florida,

pase

NASH HIGGINS

who is on the campus today with the ’Gators.

Varsity Linkmen Are
Chosen in Charlotte

Thursday, March 17, the varsity golf team
at the Charlotte Club.
Eight members were picked earlier in the week

was picked Country
from which the four members on the regular
team were’ to be picked later. These eight men
went to the Charlotte Country Club on Thurs-
day morning and the day was spent in playing
36 holes to pick the four members on the reg-
ular team.

The eight men that were picked to decide
the team were Jack Wagner, John D. MeCon
nell, Mac Manson, Tom Caldwell, John
Thompson, Harvey Morrison, Watson Falls,
and Everett Hall. They played 18 holes in the
morning and then played the remaining 18 holes
that afternoon. The team was picked and is
composed of the following men, in the order
named: Jack Wagner, Mac Manson, John D.
McConnell Tom Caldwell.
tured first place on the team by finishing with
an 82 in the morning and an 8&3 in the after

and Warner cap

noon.

The team’is in its early stages so far, but
some good matches have been arranged, and
the team will have some very food chances to
show its ability.

Davidson Net Team
Completes Schedule

The Davidson College tennis team will mect
teams from 16 other universities and colleges
this spring, according to the schedule announced
on March 17th by the manager, J. B. Stevens,
Kimball, W. Va. The card calls for two ex-

tended trips, besides a number of matches at
Davidson, including one with the University of
New York. The schedule follows:
April 4—University of South Carolina at
Davidson.
April 9—Hampden-Sydney at Davidson.
April 11—Emory at Atlanta, Ga.
April 12—Univ. of Georgia at Athens, Ga.
April 13—Furman at Greenville, S.C.
April 14—Univ. of S. C. at Columbia, S. C.
April 16—Univ. of Richmond at Davidson.
April 25—Univ. of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill.
April 26—William and Mary at Williams-

burg, Va.

April 28—-Univ. of Richmond
Virginia.

April 209—Hampden-Sydney at Farmville, Va.

at Richmond,

April 30—Uniy. of Virginia at University,
Virginia.
May 7—The Citadel at Davidson.

May 11—Duke at Davidson.
May 14—N. Y. U. at Davidson.
(Open) Furman at Davidson.

Seniors!

Representing

GET YOUR ENGRAVED CARDS for
COMMENCEMENT INVIFATIONS
Prices $2.50 and $3.00
See P. M. CONWAY or D. G. MARTIN

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY ~
GARLAND COURT
_ CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Freshman Track

Team

Loses to Charlotte High

Wildcats Lose to Union,
12-3, in One-Sided Game

Knox Poole Holds Davidson Batters
in Check, Allowing But Two
Scratch Hits

| Knox Poole, erstwhile Davidson mound ace,
‘had his Alma Mater at his mercy last Satur-

day afternoon, when in the uniform of the
Union Theological Seminary he turned them
hack with but two bingles. The game was

played on Richardson Field, and was a feature
of the Junior Speaking week-end. The ‘Preach-
ers” took everything the "Cat pitching staff had
to offer, and swatted it all over the lot, amass-
ing a total of twelve runs to take the y at
12 to 3. zi

| Only thirty-three Wildcats faced Poole, and
fin the second and seventh cantos he sent them

| hack to the bench in the old one, two, three
jorder. Four of the Davidson players had com-
| plete whiffs for a batting average, and but for
errors, Poole might well have pitched a shut-
out. Davidson's three runs came as the tesult|
of hits by Bradsher and Peabody, «Several of
the mentioned and
stolen base.

above errors, Peahody’s

Union hit consistently, sending two Davidson
hurlers to the showers, but had their big mning
in the sixth, when eight runs crossed the plate
on five hits, two free rides, an error, ind 1 hit
batsman. Sanders, former Hampden-Sydney star,
and Archie: Freeman, captain of the 1922 Da-
vidson team, led with the willow, each garner-
ing three safeties.

Box score and summary :

Davidson /Mpy 1 Mal (0) AN
Bernhatuteob caoccccasacccan (ei babe]
Mil SteeSteeeccacccuUesccee ad) Omid ag
Blanton cD acusucceceusecse4 05 0 ea)
Bradsher Nap pep ast Aces (ia | (0)
Mathisha tin cuccscsccone ceed GeO 10 <hr 0
MOnhisonin Db) se scoe ose s col c0 230) 0
Alexander, If —~- SS ae Wr a0 0)
Morris, ¢ e oe. 00 fee AN)
Whitley, ¢ eel eel ca 25 0
Morrison, J. G. eeu | (0) (ey)
Peabody 1b ---- Be Seats ees bien lene ah) es (1)
Pearce, p 10802 02.3
Groketie prsccesscee-e- sosteouns 30s 20S e
BaNGVipocscee cu oenn ews seen 20) 0180
SOM Vice uesrene cleeaonooe ce 2 Os Ore Oe a0
Totals — Hees SOs SK Veen Wate’ A/a WA
x Batted for Croker in the 8th.
Union /Nny WR GL (O) Zh
Pd t efey eae) ere eps pee teem aerate |, Puree fae wf aay Wes a |)
SItHGttwehbrecesuseesedoccas Sie Dea ale Zee Z
Sanders, 3b —~--«- esce4 Cine oe Oe a4
Foreman, 1b ss ee eA esos) D boca)
Roberts, ss --- Bey oro | | Beas he |
BGG SDs ase ses oes eee e741 3
KiddicGusssesee nee cone ge Oheolber God
Brightalivsescescos Seco 4y lO 22 20
AUK INS hethee eee sccp wesc es ale hee 0
TOtAlsae ss eon tes waoe eee 43° 12) 14 27) lil
Score by innings: Rest sh)
Semniary ~.----------003 008 100—12 14 4
Davidson boo 221007000 7020-3 (ESTES)
Errors: Shiftlett, Ik. Sanders, Roberts 2,
Mills 2, Peabody.

Summary; Two base hits, Sanders. Sacrifice,
Shiftlett 2, Sanders, Kidd, Peabody. Struck out,
by Poole 4, by Pearce 3, by Croker 2, by Bailey
1. Bases on balls, off Pearce 2, off Croker 2,

“

off Bailey 2. Hit by pitcher, Kidd by Croker.

Sutton, Charlotte, and Harris, David-
son, Turn in Feature Performances
of Day’s Events

GREENSBORO HIGH THIRD

Heath Whittle, Freshman Coach, is
Pleased With Showing in Tryouts

In a triangular track meet here last Friday
the Wildkittens were barely beaten by Charlotte
High School, 6034 to 5944. Greensboro trailed
the others with a score of 20%. Sutton, captain
of Charlotte's team, led in the number of points
by winning first places in the shot put, discus,
and javelin throws, giving him a total of 15
points. Harris, of Davidson, was second with
12, winning first in the high hurdles, second in
the lows, and tying for first in the high jump.
The Freshmen and Charlotte evenly divided first
places with and Greensboro tallied

six each

{with one,

This was the first track meet of the season
for the Freshmen, who are under the Freshman
coach, Heath Whittle, former Davidson track
star. The tryouts for the meet were held Tues-
day afternoon, the 15th, in an inter-class meet
between the “Freshmen and the Sophomores,
with the Sophomores winning. Before each meet,
tryouts will be held to determine who will par-
ticipate in each event.

The following is a summary of the results
of the meet:

100-yard dash—Pickard (C), first; Soule
(C), Banner (D), Hufford (D). Time, 10.4
seconds,

Mile run—Hinson™ (C), McFadyen (D).

Thompson (C), Shuman (C). Time, 4:56.7. ”

220-yard dash—Hufford (D), Haynes (C),
McCorkle (C), Elias (G). Time, 24.5.

120-yard high hurdles—Harris (D), Hilton
(G), Wheeler (C). Time, 18 seconds.

440-yard run—Glasgow (D), Gullette (D),
Brown (C), Burroughs (D). Time 55 seconds.

120-yard low hurdles—Kennerly (G), Har-
ris (D), Hilton (G). Time, 28.7.

880-yard run—Dulin (D), Evans (C), Le-
Gare (D), MecLauchlin (C). Time, 2 :9.5,

Pole vault—West (D), Peabody (C), Ber-
nada (D), and Quarterman (D), tied for third.
Height, 10 feet.

High jump—Gammon (D), and Harris (D),
tied for first; Lambeth (C), Lipscomb (G),
Morris (G), and MelIlwinen (D), tied for
third. Height, five feet, four inches.

Broad jump—Soule (C), Pickard (C), Byer-
ly (D), Dupuy (D), and McPhail (D), tied
for fourth, Distance, 20 feet, 10 inches.

(Continued on page 6)

Passed balls, Kidd 4, Morris 3, Whitley. Hits,
off: Pearce 5 in 4 innings, off Croker, 7 in 4
innings, off Bailey, 1 in 1 inning. Left on bases,
Seminary 11, Davidson 3. Umpire, Burton.

SCARLET TANAGER

Sodas — Tobacco — Sundries

Some Ink Still Left
Skrip 10c ‘ Carter’s 5c

Prompt Service

J O JONES CO

“Davidson Headquarters in Charlotte”

| COMPLETE OUTFITTERS
TO COLLEGE MEN

208 South Tryon Street

Charlotte

