THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE BULLETIN

Alumni Marriages

The following are marriages of Davidson
alumni which have occurred since the statis-
tical bulletin of December 15, 1931, was pub-
lished. Those which have been omitted
through. a lack of ‘information in the alumni
office will be published in later periodicals
if those involved will notify the alumni sec-
retary. (Unless otherwise specified, the mar-
riages below occurred in 1932.)

1904—Dr. Henry Clay Salmons, of Elkin,’ to
Miss Willie Gertrude Michael, of Ker-
nersville, on December 17, 1931.

1912—James LeRoy Boyd, of Atlanta, Ga., to
Miss Helen Meador, of Covington, Ga.,
on May 6th.

—Paul deLisle Mazyck, of Gaffney, S. C.,
to Miss Christine Littlejohn, of Jonés-
ville, S. C., on August 6th.

1916—Minor Revere Adams, of Gastonia, to
Miss Esther Reid, of Rock Hill, S. C.,
on July 9th. a

1917—Zebulon Vance. McMillan, of Red
Springs, to Miss Ruby Doub, of Win-
ston-Salem, on August 3rd.

1918—James Madison Austin, of New York,
to Mrs. Madeline Horne West, of Pitts-
burgh, in January.

1919—William Cary Berryhill, of Charlotte,
to Miss Mary Louise Wilson, of Louis-
burg, on January 9th.

—Bailey Patrick, of Hickory, to Miss
Louise Venable John, of Laurinburg,
on August 4th,

1920—Harold Cowan Griffin,. of -Samsoun,
Turkey, to Miss“Mary Carroll Byers,
of Gaffney, S.'C., on July 27th.

1921—Dr. Cecil Kenneth Brown, of Davidson,
to Miss Evelyn Hill, of Tallahassee,
Fla., on June 29th.

—Hadley Alexander Hill,.of Bronxville,
N. Y., to Miss Kathryn Helen Bryant,
of Kent, Ohio, on June 15th.

—Jacquelin Plumer Taylor, of Winston-
Salem, to: Miss Anna Louise Deane, of
Chevy'Chase, Md., on January 2nd’

1922—Edwin Harden Denny, of Memphis,

Tenn., to Miss Edith Marion Battle, of
Atlanta, Ga., on December 26, 1931.

—Dr. Charles Edward Cunningham) of

Franklin, to Miss Elizabeth Dare
Flinn, of East Orange, N. J., in De-

cember, 1931.

—Julian Harold McKeithen, of Winston-
Salem, to Miss Millicent Virginia
Ward, of Concord, on June 24th.

—Henry Heath Massey, of Waxhaw, to
Miss Bessie. Smith, of Clarkton, on
June 15th.

1923—Grover Mancil Ford, of Mount Berry,

a. to Miss Kathleen Rice, of Arling-
ton, Ga., on May 5th.

—Dr. William Joseph Martin, Jr., to Miss
Louise Heyerdale, both of Rochester,
Minn.,.on June 18th.

—William James Richards to Miss Annie
Elizabeth Smith, both of Concord, on
June 25th.

1924—George Ruffin Dupuy to Miss Elizabeth
Eller Stone, both of Greensboro, on
July 16th.

—Watt McCain, of Tulsa, Okla., to Miss
Berta Womack, of Orangeburg, S. C.,
on July 7th.

—Harold— Olney to Miss Emma
Glenn, both of Spartanburg, S. C., on
June 4th.

1925—Rev. Arthur M. Martin to Miss Mary
Grubbs, both of Savannah, Ga., on
June 21st.

—Rev. Archibald Cole Ray, of New Or-
leans, La., to Miss Eliza Owen Britt, of
Tifton, Ga., on July 14th.

1926—Fred Norris Anderson, of Anderson,
S. C., to Miss Florence Brennan Ed-
wards, of Monticello, Ark., on Decem-
ber 28, 1931.

—Thompson S. Baker to Miss Cynthia
L'Engle, both of Jacksonville, Fla., on
November 23, 1931.

—Rev. Forrest Treadwell
Columbus, Ga., to Miss Bertha Brea-
zeale, of Lithonia, Ga., on July 7th.

—Green Flake Laird,—ef—Davidson, to
Miss-Naomi Carrigan, of Mt. Ulla, on
June 18th,

—Dr. Hampton Clisby Lawson, of Chi-
cago, Ill, to Miss Elizabeth Johnson
White, of Mebane;-on July 20th,

—Logan Lovelace to Miss Mary Eliza-
beth Perry, both of High Point, on
June 15th.

Moss

—James Calvin McKinnon to Miss Mar-|*

‘lini? President

Alumni Deaths—Continued

Franklin, of |

tha Fairley Murray, both of Laurin-
burg, on- December 19, 1931. {
—Dr. Benjamin U. Ratchford to Miss!
Laura Deaton, both of. Durham, on|
August 5th. |
1927—William Harllee Branch, Jr., to Miss
Katherine Quintard Hunter, both of
Atlanta, Ga., on June 8th,
—Joseph Cunningham Frierson, of Mc-

Camey, Texas, to Miss Grace Reid
Seymour, of Elberton, Ga. on July
26th.
—Ralph Louis Lincoln to Miss Sarah

Richardson, both of Marion, Va., on
February 3rd.

—Garnett McMillan, Jr., of Chattanoo-
ga, Tenn., to Miss Ethel Virginia Alex-

The College Well

son, and the institution later conferred upon
him the doctor of divinity degree. For one
year he attended Columbia Theological Sem-
inary, and later graduated from Princeton Sem-
inary, afterward taking post-graduate work at
Princeton University. He spent one year study-
ing and traveling in Europe. }
For three years he was pastor of the First
Presbyterian Church at Spartanburg, and was
one of the founders of Converse College. At
the age of 27 he was made its first president,
and continued in that capacity for’ 12 years, su-
perintending its building program and nursing
it through its infant days. In 1905 he went to
the Harrisonburg church after two additional
years of study and travel in Europe.

|

|

BEWAMIN RICE LACY Ik

ander, of Abington, Va., on June 25th.
—James Alexander Vaughan, Jr., of Rox-,
boro, to Miss Mary Celina McGregor,
of Columbia, S. C., on February 6th.
—Kelly Vernon Woodham, of Port Gib-
son, Miss., to Miss Celeste Colbert, of
Jackson, Miss., on December 5, 1931.
1928—Grady Stoddard Brooks, of Fountain
Inn, S. C, to Miss Katherine Marsh,
of Trenton, S. C., on April 16th.
—Frank T. Erwin, of Greensboro, to
Miss Sara Godwin, of Charlotte, on
March 26th |

—Dr. Franklin McLean Grady, of Syra-|
cuse, N. Y., to Miss Lydia Percival, of |
Fayetteville, on June 29th.

—William Richard Grey, Jr., of New
York, to Miss Beatrice Fox, of Bethle-
hem, Pa., on May 7th.

—Dr. Thomas Thweatt Jones, of Balti;!
more, Md., to Miss Mary Cuyler Scan-|
lon, of Durham, on June 16th.

—James Franklin McCrary, of Asheboro,
to Miss Martha Morrison, of Harts-
ville, S. C., on January 16th,

—Jchn Proctor McKnight to Miss Eliza-
beth Wharton, both of Havana, Cuba,
on June 4th.

—Rey. John Malcolm Murchison, of Rox-
bury, Va., to Miss Clara Christian, of
Westminster, Md., on-June 7th,

—Harry Lee Neely to Miss Flora Ander-
son Davis, both of Bessemer City, on
December 23, 1931.

—Dr. Augustus Steele Rose, of Boston,
Mass., to Miss Grace Duncan, of Beau-
fort, on June 24th,

—Warren Waitt Smith to Miss Margaret
Sadler Shulenberger, both of Char-

* lotte, on December 24, 1931.

—Rev. Paul Patterson Thrower, of Vicco,
Ky., to Miss Elizabeth Robinson, of
Gastonia, on June 30th.

—Frank Caldwell Withers, Jr., of Colum-

Dr. Howard A. Banks, ’88
Dr. Howard Alexander Banks, 1888.graduate
of Davidson, died at his home in Pittsburgh on
June 28th. Dr. Banks entered Davidson from
Asheville, and following graduation he taught
school for one year before taking/ up reportorial

|work. He was on the’ staffs of, The’ Charlotte

Observer, and The Philadelphia Daily Record,
and*in 1910 he returned to North Carolina to
take charge of The Hickory Democrat.

In 1913 he resigned from the editorship and
publishing of this paper to accept the post of
private secretary to Josephus Daniels, then
Secretary of the Navy in the late President
Woodrow Wilson’s, ’77, Cabinet. After that
he became associate. editor of The Sunday
School Times in Philadelphia, and in 1923 he
moved to Pittsburgh to become associated with
a religious publishing concern. Four years
ago he became owner and publisher of Christ-
life, a devotional magazine. Davidson con-
ferred the doctor of literature degree upon him
six years ago.

Among his survivors are Henry H. Banks,
32, now a resident of Charlotte.

R. J. Cochran, '90
Robert Jones Cochran, 1890 alumnus of Da-

i

but entered Davidson! from Mint Hill, N. C.
He attended the undergraduate school and was
also a student at the North Carolina Medical
College, then located, at Davidson. He ob-
tained his medical degree from Tulane Univer-
sity, and later did post-graduate work at the
University of Pennsylvania Medical School.
Dr. McMurray was a child specialist, and- after
practicing in North Carolina for a while he
went to Kathleen, Fla., and later to Tampa,
where he was prominent in his, field. He was
on the pediatric staff of the Municipal Hospital
and Service Home in Tampa, and was known
in his profession throughout the South.

Rev. H. C. Nelson, '08

Rev. Henry Clay Nelson, a 1908 alumnus
of Davidson, died at-his home in Victoria, Va.,
on May 2nd. Mr. Nelson was born in Vir-
ginia, but entered Davidson from Georgia.
After leavirig here he went to Union Theolog-
ical Seminary. Following ordaination, he
served numerous churches in North Carolina
until 1919, when he retired from the ministry
and farmed: near Victoria, Va. Ill health pre-
vented his active participation in that field after
1919,

Correction

It was erroneously reported in one of the
spring issues of The Davidsonian that Paul
Leo Sutton, ’28, had been burned to death in
Richmond, Va. The Paul Sutton who died in
Richmond was not the one who attended Da-
vidson. Mr. Sutton is alive and well, wrote his
brother, in’ New Orleans. The editor gladly
corrects this error.

29-YEAR-OLD ALUMNUS

(Continued from page 2)
villé and_the congregation-there was reluctant
to release him. However, they recognized the
greater field ‘to Avhich he had been called. He
has already begun /his duties in Decatur, Ga.

The Stadium at Davidicn

bia, S. C., to Miss Louise Sherfesee; of
Greenville, S. C., on June 18th. |

1929—John English Bradley, of Stovall, to}
Miss Myra Webb, of Efland, on May}
28th. |

—William James Caldwell, Jr., and Miss}

vidson, died at his home in Charlotte on July
24th at the age of 68. Arter leaving Davidson,
Mr. Cochran located in Charlotte, and for 21
years was superintendent of schools in Meck-
lenburg County. For 10 years he was with the

Rey. Ben R. Lacy, D.D., another Davidson
alumnus of the class of 1906, heads Union
Theological Seminary at Richmond, Va.° In
several respects the record of the new Colum-
bia president has been similar to that of Dr.

“48 eats 5 ‘I vaterworks depa in| Lacy, for the latter was also a: Rhodes scholar.
Elizabeth Neel, both of Louisville, Ky. | Charlotte waterworks department, and in

*)1922 he organized the Cochran Coal Com-
on ‘December 17, 1931. | ; rs :
=NtGHToe | pany, of which-he’was president at the time

DAVIDSON COLLEGE WILL

Taylor Gilmour, of Boston,

Mass., to Miss Mary Nash Keesler, of |
Greenwood, Miss., on June 14th.

—Joseph Bertram James, of Tampa,
Fla., to Miss Dorothy Lynn Huie, of
‘Vidalia, Ga., on March 6th.

—Rev. DeWitt F. Helm, of West Jeffer-
son, to Miss Blanche DeBusk, of Salt-
ville,;Va., on May 24th.

—Herbert Harry Worzel to Miss Mar-
garetha Anna Rutan, both of Port Jer-
vis, N. Y., on June 30th.

1930—Fred Delmar Hamrick, Jr., of Ruther-
fordton, to Miss Eunice Juanita Boney,
of Rose Hill, on June 8th.

—George~ Patrick Henderson to Miss
Louise McIver McLeod, both of Max-
ton, on December 23rd.

—Herman Charles Kennedy, of Atlanta,
Ga., to Miss Alice Evolyn Barnett, of
Decatur, Ga., in December, 1931.

—Joseph Rufus Marks, of Acme, to Miss
Marion Beatrice Harris, of Seaboard,
on December 30, 1931.

—Ladson Arthur Mills, J#., of Washing- |,

ton, D. C,, to Miss Elizabeth Burbridge
Taft, of Charleston, S. C., on May 28th.

—Thomas: Russell Nunan to Miss Cora
Clarke, both of Crossnore, on June
27th,

—Frank Brandon Smith, Jr., of Char-
lette, to Mrs. Anne Cannon. Reynolds,
of Concord, on May 4th.

1931—Wyatt Albion Armfield"to Miss Lucy

Reynolds Follin, both of Winston-
Salem, on December 30, 1931.

—Claude Herman Farrell, Jr., of Dunn,

of his death,

E. H. Bean, ’97

Eugene Holms Bean, graduate of Davidson
in the class of 1897, died suddenly at his home
in Salisbury on June 8th. After his graduation
from Davidson he completed the law course at
the University of North Carolina. He prac-
ticed law in Salisbury for a while, but gave up
active participation in this profession to become
a compiler of ‘historical facts concerning Salis-
bury, Rowan County and the people of that
section.. He had been actively interested in
various affairs of that section and-was several
times a candidate for public office.

Dr. H. E. McMurray, ’02
Dr. Henry Embey McMurray, 1902 alumnius
of Davidson, died at his home in Tampa, Fla.,
on July 4th, at the age of 51. Dr. McMur-
ray was born in Charlotte County, Virginia,

to Miss Margaret Harris, of Elkin, on
May 20th.

—Charles Augustus Sisson, of Boston,
Mass., to Miss Ione Calhoon, of Gren-
ada, Miss., on June 30th.

1932—Robert Thomas Covington, of Clio, S.
C., to Miss Frances Louise Coleman,
of Gallivants Ferry, S, C., in July.

1933—James I. Campbell, Jr., of New York,
to Miss Hilda Flowe, of Allen, on Au-
gust 10th.

1933—William L. Thomasson, of York, S. C.,
to Miss Agnes McGill, of Bethany, on
August 2nd.

FORMALLY OPEN SEPT. 8

(Continued from page 1)

that the college would have its usual number
of students. The registrar has the credits for
a sufficient number of men to raise Davidson's
registration to a new peak, but many of these
men have not yet sent in their initial fee to
the treasurer of the college. Last-minute ap-
plications are coming in daily to the <egistrar,
but no accurate statement will be available un-
til after the opening of the college Septem-
ber Sth.

It has been pointed out that the Freshman.
class this fall will have the unusual distinction .
of entering upon a four-year period that will
culminate in the celebration of Davidson's cen-
tennial_ during the scholastic. session of 1935-
1936. Officials of Davidson are already think-
ing in’termis Of this eventful celebration, though
it will be some time before definite announce-
ments will be forthcoming.

WHAT IS A COLLEGE FOR?
(Continued from page 2)
by loafing, hitch-hiking or going to movies. He
will get it only by giving himself diligently
each day to the work that is set before him.
We extend a cordial welcome to both old and
new students. We are looking eagerly to your
return to the old college. If there is any serv-
ice that we can render, either before or—after
you. return, please let us know. We covet for
you the finest and best that can be gotten out
of a college course.
—Walter L. Lingle,
President.
