THE

DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 26, 1932

———

TREKKING WEST

VISIT STUDIO DURING FILMING
OF “BIG BROADCAST”

By JACK WILLIAMS, Jr.

(NOTE: This is one of~a- series of
request articles written by Jack Wil-
liams, Jr., in connection. with a trip to
the Pacific Coast this summer to attend
the National Editorial Association meet-
ing with his father.)

On Saturday night there_was no enter-
tainment planned for those attending the
convention and Mr. Herman Roe and son,
Kirk, took Daddy and me to see Norma
Shearer and Clark Gable in the premiere
of “Strange Interlude” at Graumen’s Chinese
Theater. Mr. Roe is the former president
of N. E. A., and is now field director of the
association. A Sid Grauman Prologue start-
ed off the show. It was called “A Night at
the Olympics.” Moffett McConnell and many
of the others from Davidson who went West
this summer saw it, too, and praised it
highly.

It must have. been difficult to cut down
a play taking six hours on the stage to a
performance lasting only two hours. This
is the first picture in which thought se-
quences are found, The effect is said to
be more compelling than the stage produc-
tion because the lips of the actors are still
and their unspoken thoughts are heard. It
was, I know, hard to train the players to
show emotions of their “thoughts while they
spoke the opposite words.

We happened to meet Clark Gable at a
party in Hollywood the following Tuesday
and enjoyed it a great deal because we had

just seen him in this show. The play may i

be summed up in “It’s a wise child that
knows its own father.” The screen version
tries to avoid the feeling of depression and
melancholy of the book. When I called to
make an appointment for an-interview with
Eugene O'Neill this summer at his home at
Sea Island Beach, Ga., he had not seen it
himself. However, he later made a flying
trip to New York just for curiosity’s sake.

“THE BIG BROADCAST”

When we travelled south we visited the
studio where they were filming “The Big
Broadcast,” with Bing Crosby and Sharon
Lynne. This was an exciting experience to
see these two in action and an additional
thrill came when we realized that Cab Cal-
loway was standing close by looking on.
We met Stuart Erwin and Burns and Allen.

‘I was sorry we didn’t have the chance to
meet Kate Smith, but I am sure that if she
were there we would have recognized her.
She is the type that is not easily overlooked.

On tour of the galleries and gardens of
the Henry E. Huntington Library and Art
Gallery in Pasadena the newspaper folks
viewed an exhibit of forty rare newspapers
dating from 1515 to 1918, put specially on
exhibition.

Human interest and feature stories were
apparently as popular centuries ago as to-
day, judging from-the exhibits. The polit-
ical side of an important meeting of roy-
alty in Vienna in 1515 was overshadowed by
descriptions of the elaborate costumes of the

participants. Fhe-appearance-of-‘monstriots}|-——

fishes” in an English river in 1568 prompted
a news broadside With a fantastic picture of
one of the creatures.

The exhibition of newspapers was intend-
ed to illustrate the development of journal-
ism from its beginnings in the sixteenth
century to the present time. It was mainly
concerned with English and American ma-
terial. The presence of a few foreign items
in the display is to be explained by the fact
that Mr. Huntington often acquired papers
outside the scope of his collection, and in
some cases these were retained for special
reasons. :

GAINSBOROUGH’S “BLUE BOY”

The Art Gallery is said to contain the
greatest collection of English portraits under
one roof. It wasn’t hard-to find the “Blue
Boy,” which cost the collector three-quarters
of a million, because it was surrounded by
enraptured admirers, In fact, it wasn’t hard
to find anything, since Mrs, Simpkinson of
Pasadena who showed us around, had been
a friend of the Huntingtons and was thor-
oughly familiar with the estate.—

I have listed here a few of the interest-
ing papers that were on exhibition. ~The
newspaper crowd was greatly interested in
them and I think they will be interesting
from a historical point of view if not for
their literary value.

First copy of the London Gazette pub-
lished_in 1665. It was the: first “newspaper.”
Prior to its issue, news invariably_ appeared
in pamphlets in smaller form. Pepys in his
diary said of this paper, “Very pretty, full
of news, and no folly in it.”

Athenian Gazette published in London in
1691. This papef claimed to answer all

questions in regard to-love and marriage,
history and philosophy, religion and politics,
nature and science, and “all subjects on the
earth, in the heavens above, and in the
waters under the earth.” It evidently met a
long-felt need for we learned the publisher
was overloaded with letters written for ad-
vice on all matters.

The Spectator published in London in 1711
is undoubtedly the best known of all literary
journals, The first number appeared on
March 1 and of the 555 papers Addison con-
tributed 274 against 236 for Steele.

A copy of the Pennsylvania Gazette pub-
lished in Philadelphia in 1728 contained the
Prospectus of a lottery for raising money
for the’ College and Academy of Philadel-
phia, now the University of Pennsylvania.

The Massachusetts Spy was a most un-
usual newspaper. It contained these words,
“A Weekly, Political and Commercial Paper ;
Open to ALL Parties, but Influenced by
None.” Of course it is unique in that there
is no such paper nowadays.

An issue of the Philadelphia Evening Post
contained the text of the Declaration of. In-
dependence for July 6, 1776.

The Pennsylvania Gazette, dated October
24, 1781, contained Washington’s dispatch
to the Continental Congress, announcing the
surrender of Cornwallis on October 19.

An edition. of the Connecticut Courant
published in Hartford was in honor of
George Washington, whose death had oc-

curred at Mount Vernon, Va., December 14,

The Saturday morning edition of the New
York Times in 1851 told of the assassination
of President Lincoln.

The most interesting publication was La
Libre Belgique, published (somewhere in. Bel-
gium). The history of this little paper is
one.of the most romantic in newspaper: an-
nals. “This paper first appeared in 1915 six
months after the German occupation. An
idea of the editor’s difficulties may be un-
derstood from the fact that it was frequent-
ly necessary to_hurriedly secrete copy in
radiators in the editorial offices when—raids
impended, and, when ready~for the printer,
to transport it in a hollow walking. stick.
The printing was done in sixteen™different
places. altogether, and often quick changes
were necessary.

Booth Favors Hoover

Conn.—(IP) — Albie - Booth,
Yale football star, has made his debut as

Bridgeport,

a political speaker by urging the re-election
of President Hoover before a crowd of
2,000 here.

“Hoover,” he said, “is a quarterback who|>

hasn’t called the wrong play once.”

“Tt has always been the policy of teams
I've played on, when in a jam,” he contin-
ued, “to keep the’same quarterback in there
until the field was clear again.”

Sasse Will Leave

West Point—(IP)—Major Ralph I. Sasse,
head coach of the Army football squad, will
not return to the Cadets next. fall, it was
announced here.

His place will be taken by Lieut. Gar-
rison H. Davidson, a graduate of the acad-
emy in 1927, now coaching the Plebes.

Major Sasse had expressed a strong de-
sire to return to active service with his
troops, and his wish was granted by the
War Department. ;

Short Schedule

i ae Pa.—(IP)—The shortest foot-
ba

1 schedule in the history of the school is

to be played by the University of Pennsyl-
vania football squad next year, it has been
announced, Only seven games—have been |
scheduled. All games wifl be played at
Franklin Field,

Ee GET
U-Push-Ems
At.

M. P. Henderson’s
' Gulf Station

pr |

e—

Tuesday, November 1

Lo c

Everything for the College Man

BELK BROTHERS COMPANY

at DAVIDSON

aay

Representative, Don. Mower

d

Kaw A

They Satisfy.”

\ Vhat on earth

| P Be
are you up to now:

ING things out, smarty! I thought I’d ex-

amine the tobacco in a cigarette.

“Look here...this isChesterfield tobacco. Notice its

lighter color... you don’t see any dark heavy types,
do you? I guess that’s why Chesterfields are milder.

“I’m told that uniformly lighter color is due to

cross-blending. It sort of welds all the tobaccos
into one.

“And here’s something else. Notice that these long

shreds are_all cut the same width. It stands to rea-
son they burn smoother and cooler.

“I don’t pretend to be an expert but it looks to

me as if they make Chesterfields right.

“Here, light one. That’s the best test after all.

The Cigarette thot's MILDER

TASTES

an d

| ‘hesterfiel

BETTER

—

