NS

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 3, 1932 ..

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the

anaging Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.
Di GRIREC AAR CiNissiscbuscdbaccastedscsascuunss Editor-in-Chief
PioOMs CONWAY cdssscccdccsusscbtncscade sboncs Business Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF ;
Bis OF AGUBRRAN TT csuc csc secicci ccc iebecutan, Managing Editor
Di D) IMGBRYD heiseccstcsccscesuesusceusaeveces: Managing Editor
R. L. McCALLIE -Managing Editor
Gi Ss OR Ouse abdcicacducsestsdcensecccussdss Managing Editor
B. B. SUGG Athletic Editor
D. G. ---Feature Editor
W. W. Feature Editor
H. W. -Review Editor
; txchange Editor
KE. -Associate Editor
Ww. -Associate Editor
Ww. Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

As = Mi MANSON so. oc scsscusasuniae Assistant Business Manager
A. L, MEBANE. --Assistant Business Manager
. W. WHITTED --Assistant Business Manager
Wy, Ri-eMORROWociccsacustaseccecsucesces Subscription Manager
Wa Di OHNSONtesccuccavesubdasvesuuvanuscdscuussusscese Solicitor
+R. NBA A aes -Solicitor
i B. WOOTTON Solicitor
ASO HS MANSONGsbsteues ccceases cussescccca sen --Solicitor
REPORTERS’ CLUB
° ; SH DA Disdusiubbeucscscdcssuccusccsausauuen President
; h DAREN pedstUGesess ba cdesaackuscsusueaae Vice-President
Wi oF, “MULEISSI oie a cee Secretary-Treastirer.
R. H. ALDERMAN F. H. COVINGTON
B. B. € L.. S. GAMBLE

TAYLOR

G. FE. R. E. LORRAINE
vB E. L. POWELL

& P. PRESTON R. PRATT-THOMAS
W. R. WARD Al F. SCHENCK

0. CASALI W. M. THOMPSON

W. T. THOMPSON

L, W. CLARDY, fe ‘ C
JACK WILLIAM J. A. HUNTER

FEBRUARY 3, 1932

You can get a lot out of life just by looking
at it—-Louise Keiinedy Mabie.
SEs |, yas
PARAGRAPHICS_

That ,long-expected cold weather has finally ar-
rived. We need not be surprised to see it last well
into the spring, or even to view the commencement
exercises in heavy coats.

pe » YE ou

Mr. Wade, in his column in the Sunday Observer,

remarked, “There are just some lean years in every-

thing and this seems to be the one in Davidson's

basketball history.” It would seem that he is right.
— ee) ee

Pan-Hellenics seem to have been run off in great
style. The Council is to be congratulated on its suc-
cess.

|p) es

Winter football training has started in earnest.
Fundamentals are being taught; other things will
be taken up by the new coaches when they are se-
lected.

——E——— Ess

And we are still wondering who will be the new
mentors for the coming season! One Charlotte paper
has already been forced to retract a statement they
made regarding the situation.

D.

The wrestling match was evidently closer than
the score would indicate. Most of the matches were
won by a small margin, and only one man lost by
a fall.

D.

A STUDENT PROBLEM

One of the greatest benefits of a-vacation is

that it allows us to view our school from a».

moderate perspective in the light of all other
schools. Also hear from students from other
schools, of their problems and their viewpoints
on ours.

In speaking of our honor system to other
people, we are always tempted to say that we
believe that it is one of the best working sys-
tems in the country. But as one fine educator
from the. West said, “a really fine Student
Government which is working under the honor
system will not load its system with many
things irreleyant to honor.” He said on learn-
ing of the various enforcements which our
Student Council has to undertake that it was
a very remarkable thing that our honor sys-

* tem worked so well under its existing condi-

tion of being loaded, but not as heavily as
some.

It may be safe to say the enforcement of
liquor abstinence on the Davidson campus by
the Student Council does noticeably weaken
the three main points of our honor system,
which are lying, stealing, and cheating. It may
be said, but not safely so, that the requirement
that fellow students enforce this regulation
which it must be admitted is not under the
unanimous sympathy of the Student Body
weakens the Council as a governing body, and
is not fair to them individually.

But on the other hand, there can be no argu-
ment that this regulation has cut down drink-
ing at Davidson to a minimum because it is
under the jurisdiction of the Student Council.
We believe that if the faculty had complete
charge, there would be more drinking here.
Therefore as it stands now, the regulation is
beneficial to the whole..
| This brings us to a problem which is diffi-
cult to answers. Which is of paramount im-
portance—the reducing of drinking in the Stu-
dent Body, or the perfection of a near perfect
honor system government by a Student Coun-
cil thoroughly honored and respected by its
students ? —R. L. McCALLIE.

THE SINO-JAPANESE AFFAIR

This world has for several weeks been watching
with increasing interest the encroachment of the
Nipponese on Chinese soil. There are several rea-
sons for this great concern over happenings on
the other side of the globe. The powerful trading
nations of the world have economic interests in
China; many countries have citizens residing in
this country ; Japan has been watched for several
years as a growing power—even as an aggressive
nation; various treaties cause other nations to be
interested in this seemingly strictly Mongolian af-
fair.

‘What are the chances of a Sino-Japanese war,
and of other countries being drawn into the fray?
This is a question that has been in the minds of
thinking ‘people the world over, and has been
brought even more vividly to mind recently by the
Japanese invasion of Shanghai and of the inter-
national settlement there.

Closer to home, Americans are wondering just
what is the proper attitude for the State Depart-
ment to assume in this case. The United States
has repeatedly refused to join the League of Na-
tions, supposedly because they have wanted to
stay out of European and Asiatic affairs. Yet at
this present crisis America finds herself as much
or more involved than any nation in the League.
Does this indicate that we have been wise to stay
out of it? Some would say that there are other
factors entering into the decision of our govern-
ment to stay out of the American-founded League.

sut that is the basic reason for our isolation in
international affairs. And at the present, if the
press reports are reliable, the United StateS is
nearer to war than any other power.-The&nforce-
ment of the “Nine-Power” pact has been left al-
most exclusively to the United States although
Great Britain has co-operated in the matter prob-
ably as well as her internal condition will allow
her. There have been rumors of. Japanese-French
and Russian-French understandings which might
cause these countries to overlook this and other
treaties which ‘are being broken by the Japanese.

It is sufficient to say that there is a cloudy
horizon in the East and that this horizon fore-
bodes’ no good for these peace-loving United
States. There are many in the country who are
even now scolding the government for being so
little prepared for war, and who prophesy all
kinds of evil things which the Japanese can do
to us with our present defense. We feel that the
United States will be able to take care of herself,
but that does not by any means imply that she is
anxious to demonstrate that ability. It must be
realized, however, that until there is a surer and
a more certain way of preventing war. than‘ by
making treaties, countries will find it necessary to
keep themselves armed for defense at least.
Treaties have been shown to be so violable as to
be practically ineffective.

It seems to careful observers that the Japanese
have decided to take advantage of the economic
distress in the world, and, while other nations
are worried over internal and other matters, to
step into the neighboring state of China and take
over a little territory for the Empire of Japan.
Whether this is their motive and whether they
will be successful in such an outrageous breach of
international law will be seen in the near future.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

Oglethorpe

There are several students of this ‘Atlanta institution
that are trying to ¢éstablish an Omicron Delta Kappa
Chapter there. They have the approval of their president,
Dr. Thornwell Jacobs, and are now trying to obtain
approval from the national headquarters of O. D. K.
The fourth chapter of O, D. K. was established here at
Davidson, the order of the first five chapters being:
Washington and Lee, Johns Hopkins, Pittsburg, David-
son, and William and Mary. :

N. C. C. W.

On January 13, the students of this college had the
pleasure of hearing a well-known Scotch poet, Edward
Davison, who spoke on the subject, “Poetry From the
Standpoint of the Reader.”

Georgia State College for Women

This Milledgeville, Ga., college had the extreme honor
and pleasure last Saturday of hearing the Welsh Im-
perial Singers, who are making a tour of this country.
These singers have also made a tour’ of various Euro-
pean countries, Canada and Newfoundland.

Wake Forest

Wake Forest celebrated its Founders’ Day yesterday,
Judge R., Clyde Allen, of Tulsa, Oklahoma, being the
chief speaker. This is the celebration of the ninety-
eighth anniversary of the college. Aiding in the celebra-
tion there will be a debate on the subject of: “Resolved,
That the present system of national advertising is detri-
mental to the best interests of the American people.”
There will also be two students to declaim for the ben-
efit of the visitors.

University of Tennessee

Another sport, indoor this time, has. been added to
inter-fraternity competition at Tennessee. The. great in-
door game of bridge, well known to .Davidsonians, was
inaugurated as an inter-fraternity sport recently and the
contest is in full swing now with all the nineteen fra-
ternities represented.

What Do You Think?

A writer on Russian affairs in one of the Sunday

‘papers says the food of a worker in that country is not

so good and nourishing as that distributed in the free
bread lines in the Urtited States. Perhaps with the final
completion of the much-talked-of “five-year plan” Rus-
sians will be given a real square meal.

The year 1931 saw the nation more prosperous in
health than any similar period in its history, according
to information given out Sunday, two weeks ago, by
President Hoover.

A letter from Surg. General Hugh S. Cumming, ad-
dressed to the chief executive, asserted this cOmparative
freedom from disease was due in part, to the aroused
interest of the people and to the increased efficiency of
state and local health authorities. Cumming is chief of
the Federal Public Health Service.

In matters of cold mortality statistics, Cumming at-
tached data to his statistics to show that among 75,000,-
000 insurance policy holders the death rate during 1931
was the same as that during 1930, but appreciably below
the 1929 and 1928 rates.

Despite economic conditions, he said, infant mortality
dropped from 58.1 per cent in 1930 to 55.8 per cent in
1931, the lowest in the nation’s history. These statistics
were computed on a basis of deaths under one year of
age per 1,000 live births in 70 large cities.

Even with a 700,000 increase in the population of
France there are still not as many as fifty million. So
fifty million can't be right or wrong either. The latest
census taken shows that there are, at present, 38,944,000
Frenchmen, In 1914 there were 2,495,642 foreigners in
France, and according to this latest census there are
now 2,890,923.

There has been a great deal of, debate on the campus
as to which is the worse of two very apparent evils
Walter Winchell or Davidson's own Bohemian Club.

British diplomats may go on strike because of their
financial plight, owing largely to the depreciation of the
exchange.

This applies especially to those who are stationed in
countries where the cost of living is appreciably higher
than in England, and) where commodities are 30 to 40
per cent dearer.

The case of a British consul in Holland or Switzerland
is an example. If he gets one thousand pounds a year,
he is earning a good salary. But on the exchange he
loses one-third of this to begin with, and then his in-
come tax will be fifty to sixty pounds, deducted at the
source. Accordingly, his salary, instead of-$being one
thousand pounds will be no more than about six hun-
dred ten pounds.

A cut in salary of this description is devastating to a
man with heavy fixed charges, and hits all except those
who have ample private means. .

ERI p Hein Nenu

Justice Oliver Wendell Helis nearing his ninety-
first year, has resigned from the United States Supreme
Court. He has been an ornament to the bench and up-
held its best traditions. His opinions have been noted
for their clearness and liberality.

Travel by air grew safer last year on the regular sched-
uled airlines, Figured on the number of miles flown there
was a slight decrease in the number of fatalities over the
year before. Accidents in the air where private and
stunt planes are concerned should not be confused with
those which occur with the regular commercial aircraft.
For instance, in a certain paper on one day there were

three accidents with four deaths, but none of them oc-

curred with commercial or mail planes. Two of the
fatalities were Pennsylvania society women who had taken
up flying, a third was a stunt flyer in Florida, and the
fourth an army -aviator. A check-up on plane fatalities
would no doubt reveal the vast majority of deaths ‘Oc-
curred outside the realms of commercial flying, where
the airlines exercise the utmost care to insure the safe
delivery Of passengers.

Against the obvious assumption that-most bankruptcies
are to be laid at the door of the well-known depression,
the study by the Department of Commerce of 612 bank-
rupt cases and other business failures in New Jersey
in 1931 established the fact that the major cause was
inefficient business methods and practices, according to
an article in the United States Daily. \

More than half the concerns subjected to this post-
mortem investigation either kept no books at all or kept
inadequate records, and 39 per cent of them never took
an inventory,

Another aspect ‘of the depression is thrust upon us hy
Dr. Franz Boas of Columbia University when he tells
us that children born during the depression will probably
be smaller than those born during other times. This sup-
position is made more clear by the results of the study
and observation which he has been making for some time.
He has issued the following statement:

“Economic conditions influence the size of growing
children. Among the poor the period of. adolescence is
delayed and the final stature is shorter-than that of the
well-to-do.” What next?

RUMPLE REPARTEE
First Rumpleite: “I’d hate to buy powder and rouge
for Ruth.”
Second Ditto: “Why ?” ;
First Rumpleite: “Because she is two-faced.”

“|, Of Ships & Shoes—
& Sealing Wax—
Of Cabbages & Kings...”

Duncan McBryde

WOE MAN

A Treatise on the Fairer Sex
(Or, The Origin of the Speshes)

Enter Man (A ready-made man): “In the beginning,
when Twashtri came to the creation of woman, he found
that he had exhausted his materials in the making of
man, and that no solid element was left. In this dilemma
he did, after profound meditation, the following :

He took the rotundity of the moon, and the curves
in creepers, and the clinging of tendrils, and the trem-
bling of grass, and the slenderness of the reed (includ-
ing the “rushes”) and the blooms of ‘lowers, and the
lightness of leaves, and the tapering of the elephant's
trunk, and the glances of the deer, and» the clustering
of rows of bees, and the joyoys gaiety of sunbeams, and
the weeping of clouds, and the fickleness of the winds, |
and the timidity of the hare, and the vanity of the pea-
cock, and the softness of the parrot’s bosom, and_ the
hardness of adamant, and the sweetness of honey, the
cruclty of the tiger, and the warm glow of fire, the cool-
ness of snow and the chattering of jays, and the cooing
of the kekila, and the hypocrisy of the crane, and the
fidelity of the chakrawaka: and with the compounding
of these together, he made woman and gave her to
man.’’——Selected (by PROXY.)

But I claim that the above account is (just as it says
on the first line), just a “beginning.” Woman possesses
more characteristics than that. And she has been ac-
cruing them ever since. We might also say that a woman
is known by the company she keeps WAITING. Out of
the above mentioned traits, she has gained a dual per-
sonality, and become as changeable as the weather. Some-
one has said that women are two-faced: one for home
and one for street wear. (Like the modern wife, who
tries to love, honor, and display.)

Women like to be told over and over. In other words,
you can never get them “told.” A word to the wife is
NOT sufficient, contrary to the old adage and subtrac-
tage. Judge said a long time ago: “Many a man lives by
the sweat of his frau.” (Wives of great men all remind
us of it.) The only man who can tell a woman where to
get off is the street car conductor.

MAN IS BUT DUST: AND WOMAN SETTLES
HIM.

A doctor says that the chemical value of a man is
ninety-eight cents. The chemical value of a woman, how-
ever, depends upon the drug store she patronizes.

We see where a New York woman married the speed
cop who held her up for speeding. Trust a woman to even
scores with a man, At man’s birth his mother is the
important character; at his marriage the bride is; at his
death the widow.

Someone else has said, “women are like money; keep
‘em busy or they lose interest.” (Maybe it should be
put—women like money; keep them busy at home, or you
lose the principal as well as the interest, and. pretty soon
it will e@ converted into alimtény, and so on, far far
into the night.)

Mrs. Peck: “We've been married 20 years today,
John.”
John (with a sigh): “Yes, for 20 years have we

fought—”

Mrs. Peck (scowling) : “What?”

John (quickly) : “Life’s battles together, Maria.”

Just this last remark, and I’m through. Someone re-
marks that women’s dresses are well cut out these days.
And someone ‘else ups and sez, “Yeah, almost entirely.”

Now I'll close by disappointing you with a remark
something to the effect that man is probably even worse
off, and that they are lucky in having been entrusted
with these of the fairer rank, who “make-up” the chief
object of interest in his life. We thank you.

THE END (of ME, if I don’t watch out!)

From Other Papers

SMALL COLLEGES IN DANGER
(The New Orleans Tribune)

Whe president of Atlantic University, Norfolk, Va., re-
gretfully announces that his school is so embarrassed
financially that it probably won’t open again, and its
hundred or so students will be aided in transferring to
other universities. National educational leaders, cham-
pioning the small college, have recently called attention
to the part it has played in the cultural advance of the
United States. The work of the small college did not end,
either, with the advent of the great universities on a
scale of investment, equipment and enrollment comparable
to Ford factory figures. The standardization of teaching
and the isolation of the teaching staff from the individ-
ual student inevitable to such a mass-production educa-
tion system leave much to be desired.

Independence of thought among faculty members and
the cultural benefit to be had from’ close association of
faculty and student body are obtainable at their best in
the small college. It would be a serious national loss
if the good ones were crippled by the depression. For they
supply opportunities that thousands of young men and
women would lose if they had to go far from their own
homes for higher schooling.
