°

&

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 13, 1932

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina,

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

D. GRIER MARTIN.
. M. IN WAY cdsscascsccesesdeccdsecns succes. Business Manager

I EDITORIAL STAFF
. GUERRANT. .-.Managing

E. 0.

D. Di MCBRYDE. w.s.22 2. ooo 2 toc cas ccene Managing Editor
R. L. McCALLIE Managing Editor
C. F. MYERS. 1g Editor
B. B. SUGG... Athletic Editor
D. G. STEPHENSON. Feature Editor
W. W. FRANKLIN. Feature Fditor
H. W._ER Review Editor
F BE, LAKEz..... Exchange Editor
. C. DWELLE, JR A jate Editor
WwW. S. LEA. Associate Editor
W. H. MATTHEWS. A te Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

MANSON..........---------Assistant Business Manager
MEBANE... Assistant Business Manager
Assistant Business’ Manager
Subscription Manager

Solicitor
solicitor
-Solicitor
Solicitor

Prseeo>>
RaatawSR

<=

=

Lo

e

ol

i]

REPORTERS’ CLUB

A. H. WHITEHEAD. ---------President
Ny E AK Wigeicerccstsuslebacdscavcccscaccestuesaae Vice-President
fj : -—-Secretary-Treasurer
R. . H. COVINGTON
B. TAYLOR . S. GAMBLE
G. E. BAILE . E. LORRAINE
PA FE, BOYD &. L. POWELL
§. P, PRESTON . PRATT-THOMAS
W. R. WARD . F. SCHENCK
0. CASALI W. M. THOMPSON
L. W. Ar W. T._ THOMPSON
JACK WILLIAM J. A. NTER

APRIL 13, 1932

PARAGRAPHICS

This writer’s desire for a real “scoop” for the Da-
vidsonian is realized in this issue of the paper. The
result of the election of the editorship of the paper
is first announced in it.

Di.

If we had a wish to make now that would be ful-
filled in the coming year, we would wish for the
new editor to have a larger audience than has been
habitual in the past.

SS

Spring Services begin soon, and an entirely new
thing is being tried by the Y. M. C. A. It is up to
the student body to get the most out of these serv-
ices. The men who have been secured to talk are
among the most prominent in the Presbyterian
Church.

|p)

Student body elections have been practically com-
pleted; now the various classes will hold their elec-
tions, which. will about complete the voting.

D.

Seniors are rather disappointed in the fact that
they are not to be given the usual week holiday be-
fore commencement. That is something which the
whole class has been anticipating with pleasure.

D.

The student body is looking forward to a fine week-
end, with the “Bowery Ball” as the high spot in the
entertainment program. This is always one of the
best functions of the year.

Dp

So long, Folks.
——E
FAREWELL

When one comes to the end of a period of time
over which he has been making an effort in one
direction or another, and looks back over the time
to see whether anything of good has been accom-
plished, he finds himself at a loss to decide just
what has been done. Especially is this true when
the results of the efforts are not in themselves
self-evident, but are, if any, more or less intangible

_things.

It is with a feeling of pleasure, not unmingled
with regret, that we “turn over the reins” to
someone else. It is good to feel that you have com-
pleted a task, seeing that it is impossible to say
that the whole thing has been a fiasco, but it is
not. so easy to give up a work that offers a dis-
tinct enjoyment as its reward, a position which
offers untold opportunities for service. We feel
that we are leaving behind something that we will
never regain again, an experience that will not
be repeated, and that is not a pleasant feeling,
But in human life always the old order giveth
way to the new. Thus we take our leave.

To the new editor we wish “bon voyage,” and
a success that will surpass that which has pre-
ceded. To the members of the staff who have
served so faithfully and so efficiently—to the busi-
ness manager, the managing editors, the assistant
editors, and the reporters—many thanks. To the
student body which has so patiently borne with us
through all our mistakes and failures, we express
our appreciation.

And so we end the seventeenth year of publi-
cation of “The Davidsonian” with the hope that it

“may grow to be a stronger and a more powerful

factor in campus life as the years go by.

INSIGHT AND FORESIGHT

“Let knowledge grow from more to more,
But more of reverence in us dwell;

That mind and soul according well,

May make one music as before,

But vaster.”

The evil spectre of spiritual neglect hovers over

o

“our campus seeking a resting place in the lives of

the men of our campus. When we realize that
spiritual neglect is spiritual death it behooves us
to look inward before we look forward to our
Spring Services.

The average college man is interested in his -

studies, his extra-curricula activities, his relations
with his fellow students. He seeks to develop his
mind, improve his personality and train his body.
The aim of his preparation is to enjoy a full life.
Though achieving a normal growth in these ave-
nues of expression, many of us are still unsatis-
fied—the “full life” is not yet. Perhaps some be-
come disillusioned and cynical, others sorely per-
plexed. A skepticism of the reality of spiritual
experience steals into our thinking. It is the in-
evitable result of spiritual neglect. It is an experi-
ence which is not uncommon among college men.
When a man comes to college his knowledge rap-
idly increases and his mental abilities are quick-
ened and refined.--As is so tragically true our
spiritual life is ofttimes not nurtured with the
same care and attention. Our spiritual life then
becomes static if indeed it does not slowly die.
When one increases his mental capacity, his ca-
pacity for God should likewise be enlarged. Else
there is no certainty and satisfaction, but doubt
and frustration. Many of us seek to satisfy our
souls with a spiritual life that is four years be-
hind us. With increased knowledge and quickened
mental ability we turn uor eyes on that spiritual
life and are not satisfied with our discovery. In-
deed it would be a wonder if we were not. The
spiritual life of a high school student will not sat-
isfy the thoughtful college man. Though it be
the same it needs to be recast. We demand per-
haps more reason, more knowledge, more histor-
ical proof of the verities of our faith, We de-
mand of religion practical attitudes for our daily
life and mystical values for the satisfaction of
our souls, The soul also has its demands. The
Master said, “Seek and ye shall find.” Where
there is discovery of life there must be an un-
ending search.

This spiritual quest is an individual search. One
cannot give this discovered life to another. He
can only reveal it and testify to its reality. When
this revelation and testimony is evident in groups
however it has an added authority. When com-
bined spiritual forces are pressing upon the souls
of men the revelation perhaps is clearer and the
testimony more sure.

The Holy Grail of our quest is Christ. We have
secured men for our Spring Services whom we
believe can revéal Him to us in all the beauty of
His character, the simplicity of His way and make
us feel the gentle tug of His Spirit. Their lives
and message give a clear testimony as to the inner
life which He brings. We are praying that every,
spiritual force on our campus shall be an ally to
those who shall search for Him in these days
ahead,

These services enable us to have a season in
which we shall examine our soul-life. We need
fearless insight for our daring foresight. We need
to exantine our life in the light of The Life that
shall be before us. Let us therefore prepare our
hearts for great visions of truth and the full ac-
knowledgement of the leadership of His Spirit.

C. R. Pritchett.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

Washington and Lee p

On April 26 and 27 Washington and Lee will hold a
mock Democratic convention, which will be carried on in
a similar manner to that of the real Democratic National
Convention. The school authorities will grant a holiday
for this festivity. This is no novel idea with the Generals,
for they have held similar conventions in 1908, 1916,
1924, and 1928.

Yesterday W. & L. held its Washington Celebration
with many prominent national figures, such as the Hon.
John W. Davis, Democratic nominee for. ttte Presidency
in 1924, and the Hon. Newton D. Baker. Both of these
men are Washington and Lee alumni.

- Radio bits—Listerine has signed Erno Rapee and his
orchestra instead of B. A. Rolfe. . . . Rubinoff’s first
fiddle cost $1.75 and his present instrument cost $10,000.
. .. Wrigley has booked Ely Culbertson for a sustained
series of bridge broadcasts over the NBC-WEAF chain;
he will appear on Monday and Wednesday afternoons at
4:30 and Saturday nights at 8:00... This makes three
broadcasts that Wrigley is putting on (he also broadcasts
“Myrt and Marge” and “The Lone Wolf”). . . . Isham
Jones is now playing over the Columbia network on
Tuesdays and Thursdays at noon and’ Fridays at
12:30 p. m.

Washington and Lee has not been able to obtain either
Guy Lombardo, Coon-Sanders, or Bernie Cummins for
their Finals. They all have previous engagements. Isham
Jones or Leo Reisman will probably be the orchestra to
furnish the music for this set of dances,

’ The Inter-Fraternity Conference, which dictates the
work and activities of the fraternities, may go so far as
to take fraternities away from sixty schogls of America;
this would take away charters of 214 chapters! This
would not affect Davidson. Here are some of the impor-
tant schools y the country that would be affected if the
Conference enforced this rule: Auburn, U. of Charleston,
Hampden-Sydney, N. C. State, P. C, Rollins, Wake
Forest, and others. This motion was passed at the No-

vember session of the Conference and if this rule is en-

forced it will be just another case of too bad at those
schools.

(Continued on page 6)

DES ENTREFILETS

April Sth was the first day in thirteen years that
the people of Finland were able to legally purchase
alcoholic beverages. ‘The whole country is congratu-
lating itself on the order of the first night of the wet
regime. The report of the police showed that there
were not as many arrests for drunkenness as had
been customary on Saturday nights during prohibi-
tion.

The twenty-four beer depots and sixty spirit shops
throughout Finland drew the equivalent of $35,000 in
business the first day. In Helsingfors the largest store
took in $1,000 in five hours.

The hotel cafes, restaurants, and dance places were
packed until midnight on the first evening of the wet
regime. There was great jollity but no evidence of
drunkenness.

The places patronized by the wealthy and those patron-
ized by working men proved to be equally crowded and
equally orderly, even at the moment of closing.

From the price lists printed by the government-con-
trolled liquor monopoly one finds that the prices of drinks
are comparatively low. The best places sell a drink of
liquor for the equivalent of from 22 cents up. French
cognac costs 28 cents, beer 10 cents, and a very small
glass of cheap Estonian brandy brings 3 cents.

In the fashionable places French wines and cognac and
Swedish punch are the most popular drinks. Prices there
are reasonable, even with dancing, music, and other enter-
tainment.

The hotels are crowded with liquor salesmen from all
Europe, hoping to sell their wares to the monopoly. So
far the liquor buying from the‘stores has been done by
the poorer people, those of more means prefer to obtain
their drinks at cafes and restaurants rather than be com-
pelled to wait in line at the stores. Also they realize that
at a later date they will be able to obtain a better grade
of goods.

Columbia University had quite a time last Wednes-
day as a result of the student riot following the ex-
pulsion of Reed Harris, editor of the Spectator, by
Dr. Butler and Dean Hawkes. The riot which was
part of the strike which the students declared as a
protest against the action of the college authorities.
About fifteen hundred students cut classes and pick-
ets with handbills were posted at classrooms. The
strike, which started merely as a protest against the
injustice of the administration, soon developed into
a war between the sympathizers and the athletes.
The crowd assembled at the library and speeches
were made—the sympathizers, perhaps, made the bet-
ter but the aim of the athletes made up for their
handicap when the egg-throwing started. And all the
while the architectural students were bombarding the
crowd with water thrown from the fifth floor of
Avery Hall.

The university, as universities have a habit of doing,
officially, did not know the riot was going on. The dean
scurried out for a moment and asked a picketer for a
handbill, saying he did not feel like working either. In
order to protect the property of the university, plain-
clothesmen, were called in who were dressed in clothes of
collegiate cut, needing only books in order to be mis-
taken for law students.

The occasion was formally under the auspices of the
National Student League and Columbia Social Problems
Club. The students carried banners bearing the words,
“Free Speech” and “Reinstate Harris.” :

In the newspaper Le Matin last week, the following
advertisement was found: “Village for sale because
of depopulation. Price 500,000 francs.”

The village offered for sale is L’Aubepin, in the
wine producing region of Burgundy. It is more than
two thousand years old and covers 900 acres of land.
At present there are but 150 inhabitants. This offer
comes as a result of the post-war migration of the
peasants to urban industrial centers.

Charles Sweeney, an American student at Oxford who
was recently elected captain of its golf team, was selected
by the Prince of Wales as his partner in the Navy and
Royal Marines thirty-six hole handicap golf competition.
The Prince plays with a handicap of eleven strokes.

Guglielmo Marconi, the inventor of the wireless,
has developed a successful ultra short-wave radio
telephone, capable of both sending and receiving.

The new radio can establish contact with an ordi-
nary telephone system. As a result of this a person
equipped with a radiophone will be able to converse
with anyone on a wired telephone circuit.

The first test was conducted over a distance of eight
miles on the Ligurian coast. The inventor, seated in
the villa of a friend, conversed for several minutes
with the engineers of the Marconi Company at Villa
Gualino, eight miles away.

The secret of the invention is said to lie in the trans-

mission of waves of fifty centimeters in length. At pres-”

ent the engineers of the R. C. A, Communications use
waves of sixty centimeters. According to radio. men the
shortest wave practicable in commercial wireless at pres-
ent is thirteen meters.

“ | Of Ships & Shoes—
& Sealing Wax—
Of Cabbages & Kings...”

Duncan McBryd

Gentlemen,.this will probably be a farewell. The Mirth
of a Nation shall become the Dearth of a Nation. Appli-
cations are now in order for the next editor of this col-
umn. (Oh, yes, believe it or not, we'll inveigle someone
into writing it—eventually. Because Barnum was right:
there’s one born every five minutes.)

Before going on with the rest of the column, we wish
to draw up an application blank for those luminaries who
might like to take over the position.

Name (middle name will do)

Occupation (or what have you?)

Experience (don’t get per 1)

What typewriter are you anyway ?-------------.--

Remember that success in writing depends entirely upon
hitting the right keys on the typewriter. With this little
hint you should have no trouble. The sole requirements
are that you write lots and lots of something about noth-
ing. Fold your application neatly and give to nearest
janitor, who will either dissuade you, or help you pack
for a trip to:Dix Hill. If still determined, however, fill
out your application in something like the following
manner : i

“Next!” .... “Who, me?”

“Born?” . .. “Yes, sir.”

“Where?” . . . “Russia.”

“What part?” ... “All of me.”

“Why did you leave Russia?” .. .
couldn’t bring it with me.”

“Where were your forefathers born? . .
got one father.”

“Your business?” . ,. “Rotten.”

“Where’s Washington?” ... “He's dead.”

“I mean the capital of the U. S.” ... “Oh, they
loaned it all to Europe.”

“Do you promise to support the constitution?” ...
“How can I? I’ve got a wife and six children to
support.”

- “I only

WHAT WOULD TENNYSON HAVE SAID?

—T am a part of all that I have et.”
Gus MacZelch.

-

PONDERINGS AT THE
BOWERY BRAWL—

(as reported to me through the Saturday Revue)
That she
Has charms
I must
Confess
BUT WHAT
Are charms
Without
Access?

MLD ene

SAYINGS OF SAGACIOUS SAM, THE SHORT
STOP
There are cigarettes now that will stop coughs, help
the singing voice and make one feel happy and’ contented,
but we are not going to rest satisfied until some manu-
facturer puts on the market one that will stop hair from
falling out.

Many a nobody who isn’t known by anybody becomes
a somebody and is known by everybody, and everybody
tells him they knew him when he was nobody, and that
they knew he would be a somebody some day.

A flying rumor never has any trouble in making a

landing.

“This means a good deal to me,” said the poker player
as he stacked the cards.

Nowadays, whatever is not worth saying is sung.

Then the Scotchman who was seen frying his bacon
with Lux, to keep it from shrinking.

(We don’t see why a Scotchman can be called close.
Because you can touch anybody that’s close. But you can’t
touch a Scotchman.)

FAMOUS EPITAPHS
—On the Grave of an Atheist—
“We dressed him up in his very best,
His*Sunday tie in a perfect bow,
Folded his hands;
Placed a lily there,
And gently laid him here to rest,
All dressed up and no place to go.”

May I take this opportunity to say that I have greatly
enjoyed this weekly, may I say weakly, attempt at hu-
mor in the Davidsonian, and appreciate all interest (any
little bit of interest) shown in my work in it. While I
welcome the end of the Mirth of a Nation (in which
group I am not alone, I am sure), and deeply feel for the
next chap that steps in, nevertheless it has been a most
interesting, enjoyable experience.

Yours with beers in my eyes,
Duncan MacBryde.
