THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 9, 1932

CROSS-COUNTRY
TEAM
BEATS GUILFORD

THE SPORTS PARADE

FRESHMEN JOURNEY
TO NORFOLK
THIS FRIDAY

Congratulations, Wildcats! That was
a great game you played Saturday
against State, and you certainly deserved
victory, but luck, fate, jinx (or what-
ever you want to call it) was unkind.
Despite the defeat, Wildcats, the David-
son student body is proud of you; just
as proud of you in that defeat as they
would have been had you won. If you
play as well and as hard this Saturday
against Carolina, then we feel that the
Tar Heels will return to Chapel Hill
with drooped lips.

The Wolfpack won the game 7 to 3, but
we wonder how many of those State players
really feel that victory was theirs. At least
those Terrors who saw Willson cross the
goal line;'in Davidson's first touchdown drive
in the third quarter, only to have the ball
placed just back of the final marker by the
referee, don’t think State deserved victory.

Eb Willson, who has replaced Hutch-
insat the fullback position for the Wild-
cats, played an unusually good game Sat-
urday. The Tennessee boy backed up
the’ Davidson line in “excellent ‘style,
making numerous tackles during the
game, and in addition added 38 yards
from scrimmage on the offense. In pre-
vious games Willson had been used
wholly as a blocking back, but Saturday
he showed that he could also buck the
line for consistent gains.

Ray Rex and Red Espey, State’s highly-
touted stars, certainly didn’t show all-state
calibre in the Davidson game Saturday. The
210 Terror fullback gained 35 yards in ten
tries against the Wildcats and on two oc-
casions failed to gain. He did return the
opening kickoff 50 yards, thanks to his in-
terference. The redhead captain and cen-
ter must have been way off his game, for
on several occasions we saw little Potter
put him on the ground. It certainly is a
shame that Davidson’s “Buddy” Gardner is
injured, for he showed more ability in the
five minutes he played in the Duke game
than State’s “one of the South’s best” Espey
showed all afternoon Saturday.

Carolina will bring a team to Davidson
this Saturday anxious to defeat the
Wildcats, for upon this game depends
the Tar Heels’ chances for the state
championship. If North Carolina can
win this game and then defeat Duke the
following week-end, the crown will be
hers.

Despite two defeats at the hands of Big
Five members, Davidson still has a chance
to win second place in the state race. Take
a look at these possibilities! If Davidson
defeats Carolina and Wake Forest, then she
will have two victories against two defeats
for a .500 percentage. If Duke defeats both
Carolina and State, then the Blue Devils will
have four victories for 1,000 percentage, Car-
olina will have one victory (that, over State),
two defeats (mentioned above), and one tie
for .333, State will be tied with Carolina in
the standing, and Wake Forest will have
two defeats with two ties for zero percent-
age. :

Again the Wildcats appear the under-
dogs against Carolina. The Tar Heels
have won their last two games, defeating
State 13-0 and Florida 18-13, while the
Wildcats have not tasted victory in their
last three contests. Nevertheless, Da-
vidson can beat Carolina, and personally
we think the Wildcats will satisfy the
Home-coming enthusiasts with a well-

earned victory.

|Roy’s 92-Yard Run Gives
State Wolfpack Victory
Over Davidson Wildcats

Wildcats Drop Second Game to Big
Five Opponent by Score of
7 to 3 5

if
a]

Before a crowd of 5,000 spectators the
State College eleven defeated the Davidson
, Wildcats by the “narrow margin of four
| points last Saturday afternoon on the Cen-
tral High field in Charlotte. The game,
‘which ended with the score 7 to~3;-was one
of the most spectacular of the Big Five
series played so far, and its outcome had a
decided bearing on the state championship.

Three quarters of scoreless scrimmage and
exchanges’ of punts were clocked off before
either team scored. Immediately after the
fourth period started, however, Peabody
kicked a field goal from the two-yard line
to chalk up the first score of the game. Da-
vidson did not hold the lead long, for on the
next play Roy, of the Wolfpack, received
Pearce’s kickoff on his own eight-yard line
and returned it 92 yards for a touchdown.
McQuage accounted for the extra point with
a place-kick. These were the only. scores
of the game, but both teams had Plenty of
offensive power and both threatened‘ their
opponents several times.

The 'Cats carried ‘the ball to State’s one-
foot line on one occasion only to fumble
and have it recovered by Espey. SAlthough
the Pack never pushed ‘the pigski}) inside
of Davidson's 10-yard line, they, started sev-
eral long drives which gave the crowd a
thrill, but each time were stopped. before
damage was done.

Neither team was able to get its offensive
clicking early in the first part of the game
and the quarter was taken up mostly with
a punting duel. However, toward the end
of the period State started a drive which
ended on the Wildcats’ 27-yard line, when
Rex fumbled twice but as the
quarter closed. On the fourth down, as the
second period opened, McAdams passed over
the goal to-Roy,-but it was incomplete atid
Davidson gained the ball on her own 20-
yard line.

recovered

On the next play Charlie Pearce stepped
off-tackle for 13 yards, but in the next se-
ries was forced to punt. State was unsuc-
cessful in the next scrimmage and punted
on the third down. Pearce ran left end for
another 13 yards, but again was forced .to
kick. The two teams punted back and forth
for most: of the remaining quarter until
Cumiskey dashed off-tackle for a long gain
which was followed by others by Rex and
Roy. The attack was stopped on the ’Cats’
40-yard line and the half ended with the ball
in Davidson’s possession on the

40-yard
marker.

The Wildcats kicked off to their oppo-
nents as the*second half opened. Rex re-
ceived the ball on his own eight-yard line
and returned it to his 44. In’ the next se-
ries Peabody recovered Bohannon’s fumble
in midfield and from here Davidson started
its offensive drive that’ ended on the one-
foot line. Pearce got five, Willson twelve,
Mackorell ten more and the ball rested on

Davidson’s Metzger

CHARLIE RIVES - TUARD

Although Charlie Rives, 170-pound
Davidson guard, is playing his first year
in the Wildcat line, he has distinguished
himself as one of North Carolina’s best
forwards..__Rives played every minute of
the State-Davidson game Saturday un-
der the handicap of a bruised shoulder,
but the injury did not keep him from
stopping State’s plays through the line
time after time.

the 11-yard marker. Mackorell and Willson
made another ten yards and first down
and the pigskin was on the one-foot line and
four downs to go. The worst break of the
game came in the next play when Mackorell

a

Freshmen Will Oppose |
W. & M. Téam at Norfolk |

This Friday the Davidson Wildkittens |
journey to Norfolk, Va., :to encounter Wil- |
liam and Mary Freshmen, Norfolk division,
in their fourth game this season. |

William and Mary Frosh have one of the,
best teams this year they have had in years,
having lost only one game and that by the)
narrow margin of six points to the power- |
ful Wake Forest Freshmen, They defeated |
the V. P. I; yearlings earlier in the season |
and last Friday downed Louisburg College |
by the score of 29 to 0.. Maxie and Cavish |
are their most dependable backs, the for-
mer, in the game with Louisburg, ran 70
yards on the kickoff for a touchdown.

The scrapping Wildkittens need have no
fear of-this Virginia team, hgwever, for al-

ready they have showed their mettle, having

been defeated only once themselves. In the
first game of the season they trounced P.
J. C. 26 to 0, and later Wofford 21 to 6. Al-
though State Freshmen heaped defeat upon
their heads last Friday, a more experienced
team travels to Norfolk and should give a
good account of themselves.

Morrow Leads Harrier
Team to 18-37 Victory

The Davidson varsity cross-country team
easily defeated the Guilford distance men
here last Friday, November 4th, to the tune
of 18 to 37. Both teams competed with a
combination. of the Freshmen and Varsity,
and the surprise of the evening came when
Freshman Billy Merchant, diminutive but of
everlasting endurance, sprinted in for second
place.

Captain Rufus Morrow took first place by |
covering the three-mile course (beginning on
the Concord road and ending in front of
the stadium) in 16 minutes and 41 seconds.

fumbled the ball and Espey recovered. Me-
Quage kicked out on the first play and from
State’s 40 the Wildcats started another drive.
A pass, a penalty, and several beautiful runs
put the ball on the two-yard marker as the
quarter closed.

With one down to go the ‘Cats lined up
in the place-kick formation with Mackorell
holding the ball. The ball sailed off Pea-
body’s toe and between the uprights to ac-
count for Davidson's only three points. With
victory almost at their finger tips the ’Cats
lined up for the fatal kick-off, which was
returned by Roy of the Wolfpack. for the
only touchdown of the day. The halfback
received the ball on his own eight-yard
marker and headed straight for midfield.
As he passed the 50-yard line he cut for
the sideline and then straight down it and
across the goal. The excellent blocking of
his teammates was largely responsible for
his beautiful run. McQuage place-kicked for
the extra point.

Faking a quick kick, after the kickoff,
Pearse instead tossed a forward to Mack-
orell who ran to midfield for a gain of 30
yards in one of the prettiest plays of the
game. Here State gained the ball after Da-
vidson_had failed. The Wolfpack started

(Continued on page 6)

CHARLOTTE

LITTLE PEP SANDWICH SHOPPE

Famous for Good Waffles
and Sandwiches

DAVIDSON

Ss)

117 GARLAND COURT

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY

PRINTING AND ENGRAVING

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

WE APPRECIATE YOUR PATRONAGE

EDW. O. GUERRANT

See Our DAVIDSON REPRESENTATIVES

A. M. MANSON

The remainder came in in the following or-

Statistics
STATE-DAVIDSON GAME

State Dav.
First downs ________--.___ 10 12
Yds gained at scrimmage 187 155
Yds lost at scrimmage____ 18 15
Passes attempted ________ 5 7
Passes completed ________ i 4
Passes incompleted ______ 3 2
Passes intercepted ________ 1 1
Yds gained at passes______ 8 63
Yds lost intercepted passes 0 30
Average length of punts__39.4 38.1
Yds punts returned ______ 42 47
Average length of kickoffs 55 51
Yds kickoffs returned _/__ 125 15
Yds lost by penalties______ 20 50
Rumbles) 222s 2852 6 3
Opponents’ fumbles recov. 1 2

Wildkittens Beaten by

State Freshmen in Last
Ninety Seconds of Play

Twenty-two Yard Pass Gives State
Yearlings 12-7 Victory Over
Davidson

A pass good for 22 yards from Davis to
the N. C. State Freshman team
a l2 to 7 victory over the Davidson Wild-
kittens last Friday in Greensboro. The pass
came in the last minute and a half of play,

Dusty gi

[turning defeat into victory -for -the State
yearlings.
Pittman had made a low kick, the ball

going out on Davidson's 25-yard line, and
after being repulsed at the line, Davis hurled
the pass to Dusty who stepped over the goal
line for the winning margin. The kick for
point went wide.

State made her first. touchdown in the
closing minutes of the first half, Davis slip-
ping through right tackle~for 10 yards to

make the score.

Davidson's score came in the opening min-
utes of the second half on a 35-yard pass
from Pittman to Burns over the goal line.

The first half saw play around the middle
of the field, with both teams. punting fre-
quently. Then in the last few minutes of
play the Wolflets marched down the field
and Davis stepped down the sidelines for
his counter. Windham blocked the try for
point.

In the second half Zori kicked off to
Verble who returned his kick to the 50-yard
line. Verble almost got away for a touch-
down, the safety man being the only’ man
between him and a clear field. The Wild-
kittens then drove to the 35-yard line, where
State’s defense tightened and-on the fourth
down Pittman faded back and threw a pass
Burns State’s goal line. Pittman
kicked the extra point. Davidson threat-
times after this but failed to

to over
ened several
score,

In the closing minutes of play, State be-
gan a drive towards Davidson's goal line
which was stopped just short of the line.
Pittman kicking from behind his goal line got
off a kick to his 25-yard line and State
threatened again, but was held for downs.
Pittman was rushed and made a poor kick,
the ball going out of bounds on the 25-yard
marker. Davis this got off his pass to Dusty

for the score.

der: Merchant (D), Newlin (G), McFadyen
(D), Gullette (D), Morris (D), Hardin (G),
Meihbohn (G), Woodside -(D), Budd (G),
Matthews (G).

This week-end (Homecoming) the varsity
will meet the Winston-Salem All-Stars.

MAO BY

ALBIE BOOTH and

FRANK CARIDEO
Wearing new “All America”

sweaters, the officiel sweater
of “All America” football
stars. We present the mos?
unusual sweater of the year.
Saddle shoulder construction,
all wool, brushed, in the new
Fall shades.

ALLL AMIERICA

*cATA LL!

NS AY

On Display at

Ivey’s Davidson Shop

~

¢
