THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 12, 1932

Halverstadt Wins Fall
Tennis Tournament by
Victory Over Lafferty

Freshmen Progress to Semi-Finals
With Bowman, Lewis, Gold, and
Barnette Surviving

James. Halverstadt defeated John Lafferty
in three straight sets and by so doing won
the fall tennis tournament for upperclass-
men. Halverstadt, a Junior this year, who
also won the tournament last year by de-
feating Eugene DuBose, easily defended his
crown by downing his classmate by scores
of 6-4, 6-3, 6-0. Jimmy’s victory was marked
by his steadiness and by his beautiful place-
ments which frequently won points for him.
Lafferty put up a game fight but the smooth-
ness and the consistency of his determined
opponent proved too much for him.

Halverstadt drew a bye in the first round
of the tournament and then routed Garrett,,
6-1, 6-3, in the second round. Jimmy had
no trouble in trouncing Morrow, 6-3, 6-4, in
the quarter-finals and entered the semi-fi-
nals. He then breezed into the finals by
pounding his way through Scott, 6-1, 6-0, 6-4,

Lafferty, after drawing a bye in the first
round, went on to defeat McKeithan, 6-2,
6-4, In the quarter-finals, Johnny found his
opponent, Elvery, not quite so easy and, after
losing the first set to the star courtman of
last year’s Freshman team, settled down
to take the match, 3-6, 6-4, 6-3. Lafferty
was forced to the limits in winning his semi-
final match with Myers, 6-3, 7-5, 6-3,

The Freshman tournament progressed to
the semi-finals with Bowman, Lewis, Gold!
and Barnette still surviving. The finalists
will be: decided when Bowman and Lewis
meet in upper bracket while Gold takes on
Barnette in the lower bracket.

Arrangements are being made for a match
between the Gastonia Country Club and the
Davidson varsity to be played Saturday in
Gastonia. The Davidson team will be picked
from Halverstadt, Lafferty, Scott, Myers,
Elvery, Brown, Phifer, and Morrow.

TREKKING WEST

(Continued from page 3)

met him and he is a most interesting con-
versationalist. After lunch many of the
crowd took airplane rides over the city.
Glendale is outstanding among the cities of
the United States emphasizing aviation and
is the leading air terminal on the Pacific
Coast.

Mrs. Simpkinson and Mrs. Randall of
Pasadena drove us to Pasadena and showed
us the city. We saw Civic Center, situated
in the center of Pasadena’s business district.
Probably the . outstanding edifice of this
group is the City Hall, a gem of architec-
ture nestled among trees, flowers, and
shrubs,

Other places visited were the Rose Bowl,
the scene of the annual East-West football
classic, and California Tech, which is one
of the best technical institiitions in:the coun-
try. f

The Community Playhouse in Pasadena is
one of the most noted community theaters
to be found. Robert Young received his
training here. We enjoyed his acting in the
world premiere of “Strange Interlude” at
Graumens Chinese. While in Hollywood it
was my good fortune to meet him. He gives
the Community Playhouse in Pasadena due
credit for starting him off before entering
the films.

Forest Lawn Memorial Park in Glendale,
beautiftl residential city about seven miles
north of Los Angeles, is where we found
two quaintly beautiful little churches where
more than five thousand couples have been
wedded. From all sections of Southern Cali-
fornia and many distant points, almost one
thousand couples come each year to be mar-
ried in this setting of fragrant flowers and
singing birds. met ; :

One of the churches, the Wee Kirk o’ the
Heather, is an exact reproduction of the
little Glencairn Church where Annie Laurie
worshipped in Scotiand, It nestles on the
side of a hill purpled with Scottish heather.
Inside the church are the actual communion
tokens used by Annie Laurie, her portrait,
and her will.

Its companion, the “Little Church of the
Flowers, was inspired by the quaint village
church of Stoke Poges in Buckinghamshire,
England, where the poet Gray wrote his
“Elegy.”

ANNUAL TRYOUTS HELD
“AT GLEE CLUB MEETING

(Continued from page 1)

First tenor—T. H. Morris, C. H. Little,
D. S. Currie, E. B. Garrett, C. B. Lewis, W.
B. Stokes, W.G. Bradley. ~

Second tenor—W. L. Northen, L. T, New-
land, J. E. Dill, J.-S. Stelle, Blanton Little,
Paul Warren, George Gullette, Dwight San-
tiago, Stuart Henry, Geddy. Monroe, Reed
Flow, Jack Williams, Jr.

— Baritones—N. M. Gladstone, L. D. Mc-
Phail, J. M. Williams, W.. H.Marvin, C. B.

DAVIDSON OVERWHELMS
WOFFORD ON FRIDAY

(Continued from page 1)
placekick by Mackorell was broken up by
Nantz.

The Wildcats seemed to literally gallop
all over the field; after a few exchanges
of punts Fleagle slipped away for a 25-
yard gain as the quarter ended. The ball
was on the Terriers’ 45-yard marker when
the final period opened. Again Fleagle, agile
Wildcat, cut through left tackle and dashed
45 yards for another touchdown on the first
play, Peabody. made the extra point good
from placentffent.

Following the kickoff, Bauknight attempt-
"ed a pass which was intercepted by Fleagle,
giving the “Wildcats the ball on. their: own
49-yard line. Peabody passed to Morgan for
a 15-yard gain and Flinn slipped through
left tackle for 17 yards, putting the ball
on Wofford’s 15-yard marker. Flinn ran
around right end for 12 yards and Peabody
pushed over for another touchdown.
Fleagle obtained the extra point from place-
ment.

The last touchdown was obtained by a
spectacular broken field return of one of
Wofford’s punts from the 45-yard.tape by
Wingfield, Sophomore back. He also made
the extra point from-placement as the game
was about over. Wofford made a 21-yard
gain, by a lateral pass from Bauknight to
Gibson, in the last few minutes of play, but
the time was too short for the Terriers to
carry out this last threat.

This battle Friday was replete with thrifls
throughout the entire four quarters and was
an honor to the two coaches, “Doc” Newton
and “Gene” McEver, as well as the Wild-
cats themselves.

Lineup : =
Wofford Position Davidson
Roper LE. - Morgan
Nantz LT, ‘Wagner
Jones LG Rives
Jackson .--------< Center_..._.... McElrath
Berry RG. Hand
Hardin RT, Whitfield
Quattlebaum RE Morris
Williams Q.B Wingfield
Bauknight L.A. --- Flinn
Funderburke --.---RH Pearce
Monroe FB Hutchins

Summary: Scoring touchdowns—Pearce,

Mackorell, Mills, Fleagle, Peabody, Wing-
field, Monroe. Extra points—Mackorell,
Peabody, Fleagle, Wingfield (placements).

Substitutions: For Wofford—Robinson,
Gault, Parnell, Mims, McCravey, King, Gib-
son, Humphries. Fot Davidson—Mackorell,
Peabody, Wilson, Mills, Ross, West Caton,
Ogden, Sievers, Potter, Dickenson, Fleagle,
‘Howard, Cannon, Batte. .

Officials: Perrish (V. P. I.), referee; Sho-
lar (Presbyterian), umpire; Rawson (Geor-
gia), headlinesman.

DR. JAMES HARDIE TALKS

TO STUDENTS AT VESPERS

(Continued from page 1)

talking with God. But, according to Dr.
Hardie, the meaning is that when we heed
Christ’s call to follow Him, He has hopes
for us. to fill His plans. There is a place
for us in the Master’s plans, and if we do
not fill it in this generation, the place will
be vacant.

The Master has expectations and confi-,
dence in us. But how can we fulfill this ex-
pectation? To solve this question, Dr. Hardie
told of a friend of his, a champion wrestler

Bill McIlwinen, Gordon Wood, J.-T. Blair,
R. K. Mathews, Walter Wells. .

Bass—Dave McLain, W. W. Caligan, Le-
land McKeithan, Grainger Williams, Frank
Tucker, John C, Calhoune, John Morgan, J.

NOTICE
Have your shoes rebuilt at the
DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP
Work done while you wait.
C.._A. KENNEDY, Proprietor

M. Voegthen, Wills Hollingsworth.

all over the religious world. None

(oer rrr rrr

Gnion Theological Seminary
Richmond,
B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., LL.D., President

A graduate of Davidson and of Union studying abroad writes:
“There are able scholars here whose books are known and read

professors at Union as teachers, and none of them can challenge a
student to joydtis, practical Christianity as did our professors there.

a
|
9.

a eee

Virginia

of them can surpass some of our

who was injured very badly. When he called
on the injured man, who has since taken
Christ to guide. him through life, the wrestler
framed this question for Dr. Hardie, “What
do I owe Him for all He has done for-me?”
He could see only in terms of money, so
Dr. Hardie told him to.tithe. The fellow
later gave Dr. Hardie his tithe which was
$2,000.00. This was sent to all parts of the
globe. But the wrestler’s question should
be applied to all of us, and the answer is to
fulfill His expectations to the best of our
ability. His confidence is a source of en-
ouragement. Dr. Hardie explained that
Paul's prayer, therefore, meant that Jesus
has great hopes for us and that our duty is
to strive for their fulfillment.

The meeting was closed bya prayer led
by Dr. Hardie.

ANNUAL FALL SERVICES TO
BE CONDUCTED THIS YEAR
BY DR. DWIGHT CHALMERS

(Continued from page 1) :
worth the while of every student to attend
all of these services. There are but a few
schools and colleges in the entire country
that can and will offer to their student bodies
anything of this nature, and those who are
students of Davidson College are indeed priv-
ileged to be able to hear some of the South’s
most eminent ministers in a series of “heart-
to-heart” talks on the vital problems of re-
ligiog in relation to our life, for a certain
time each fall and sprin

Last- year Davidson st! ts were fortu-
nate in having Dr. Rob W. Miles of
Lynchburg, Va., who gave a very interest-
ing and instructive set of .talks. c

“DRUGS”

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

Make Our Store Your’ Store
Student, Supplies

WHITE DRUG CO,, Inc.

“SODAS”

“SUNDRIES”

ae

® Davidson Theatre

.

:

"ee

A

%
s

£

WEDNESDAY
“BILL OF DIVORCEMENT”
JOHN BARRYMORE
THURSDAY
“LOVE ME TONIGHT”
MAURICE CHEVALIER
FRIDAY
“SMILING THROUGH”
NORMA SHEARER
SATURDAY
“MOST DANGEROUS GAME”
JOEL McCREA
MONDAY
“HAT CHECK GIRL”
TUESDAY

“PACK UP YOUR TROUBLES”
STAN LAUREL—OLIVER HARDY

\

a"

(epman, J. A. C. Robinson, G. A. Lenkle,'_
Bo sian

Chesterfields are Milder, They Taste Better

— the things smokers want most in a cigarette

N CHESTERFIELD there is no harshness— no bitterness,
They are made from ripe, sweet Domestic tobaccos and the

right amount of Turkish. The taste and aroma are just right.

CHESTERFIELD

© 1932, Liccarr a Myzns Tosacco Co.

