THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 30, 1932

~

Alumni News

PERSONALS
The Reverends M. P. Calhoun, '23, and
Paul Freeland, ’25, are spending this winter
studying at the University of Edinburgh.
Their address is 14 Claremont Crescent,
Edinburgh, Scotland.

James Lctiawell Richards, ’22, of Colum-
bia Seminary, Decatur, Ga., spoke at the
regular services of the Davidson Presbyterian
Chureh last Sunday. He was also the speak-
er at the vesper service in the evening. Dr.
Richards is the son ‘of Dr. C. M. Richards,
of the Davidson Bible Department, and was
a Rhodes Scholar. After studying abroad,
Dr. Richards was pastor of the Clarksville
Presbyterian Church at Clarksville, Ga., and
took an active part in religious work there.

Dunbar. H. Ogden, Jr., D.D., '23, visited
his brother, Fred Ogden, of the Senior class,
during Thanksgiving. Dr. Qgden made an
enviable: record in scholarship and extra-
curricula activities while here and is now
pastor_of the Presbyterian Church at Piker-
ville, Ky.

Boyd, 08, has moved to 906 North
13,

Res
Pine Street, Charlotte, and J. C. Boyd,
is now at the same address.

E. B. Robinson, ‘32, and Allen Hallett
Whitehead, ’32, are attending the Medical
School at Tulane. Their address is 1733 Cal-
houn Street, New Orleans, La.

Jr., '28, and Albert
Halverstadt, ’30, who are with Proctor &
Gamble of Cincinnati, visited Mr. Lingle’s
parents, Dr. and Mrs. Walter Lingle, during
Thanksgiving.

Walter Lee Lingle,

F, L. Jackson, '06, treasurer of Davidson,
has left for Richmond to attend the Asso-
ciation of University and College Business
Officers of the Eastern States. He was re-
quested to make an address before the asso-
ciation and his subject will be “Student Aid.”
While in Richmond he will also attend a
conference on December 1 of the members
of the National Committee on Standard Re-
ports for Institutions of Higher Education.

Among the letters received at the college
office lately was one from Egbert W. Smith,
82, Secretary of Foreign Missions.

More and more nowadays an alma mater’s
solicitude follows her sons after graduation.
The education of a college graduate does
not by any means end with his graduation,
but it is only the beginning. After gradua-
tion there is the chance to put this knowl-
edge he has learned inte practice and to
improve himself by further reading. In
connection with this different ideas in re-
gard to education have sprung up. All kinds
of definitions have been given to the_sub-
ject of education.

One famous éducator advances the defini-
tion, “Education may be taken to mean the
coming into the inheritance of accumulated
intellectual riches and the acquiring of wis-
dom in their use. Learning is not its aim
so much/as intelligence served by learning.’

As such it shares conspicuously in the
medieval scholastic conception of education
as the acquiring and use of stored-up knowl-
edge, while it has in a lesser degree the be-
fief of the modern educator and the ancient
Greek in education as individual develop-
ment.

Comparing this definition with John
Dewey's with the emphasis on a re-creation
of individual attitude, however acquired:

“Education is that reconstruction, or reor-
ganization of experience which adds to the
meaning of experience and which increases
the ability to direct the course of subse-
quent experience.”

Still broader is the requirement of Plato,
who believed education should “develop in
the body and the soul all the beauty and all
the perfection of which they are capable.”

Matthew Arnold with his insistence on

: “swoethess and light” and Herbert Spencer,
who demanded of education that it “prepare
us for complete living,” were looking toward
a development beyond that of intelligence
alone.

(NOTE: | It will be appreciated if alumni
who have material that will be of interest
will send it to Jack Williams, Jr., Box 262,
Davidson, N.» C.)

One of our economic system’s weaknesses
is the overconcentration of wealth in the
hands of a few individuals.—Secretary of
War Hurley.

Business conducted solely with a view to

gain is something of a rather low order—

Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler.

The greatest lack in the modern age, the

principal source of evils we all deplore, is|.

the lack of reflection—Pope Pius XI.

Graduates of Davidson
Now Continuing Work in
Harvard Business School

Pepper, Conway, Dwelle and Keller
Pursue Further Study in Boston

The Harvard Business School announces
an extra session which will start January
30 and continue to August 16, 1933. It is
designed to meet the needs of college men
graduating at midyears with a business ca-
reer in mind but no present position in view,
and of those recent college graduates who
have not yet secured permanent positions.
This action was recommended and approved
by Mr. Walter S. Gifford of the American
Telephone and Telegraph Company, Mr.
Jesse Isidor Straus of R. H. Macy & Co,
Inc., and Mr. George Whitney of J. P. Mor-
gan & Co. It is also approved by Mr. Wal-
ter C. Teagle, Chairman of the Share-The-
Work-Movement. They point out that the
facilities of the school for constructive train-
ing in business must be made available this
winter asa ‘substitute for the demoralizing
effect of waiting around for jobs or repeat-
ed failures to get them.

Students who attend the session will have
the same classroom instruction under the
same faculty as the regular first-year class.
They will be entitled to full academic credit,
thus enabling them to enter the second-year
class next fall. Midyear examinations will
be eliminated. Three week-end vacations of
four days each will be substituted for the
recesses of the academic year. The extra
session is open to college graduates and to
those who have had executive experience in
business. The usual provision regarding
college graduates will be in effect, whereby
college seniors lacking a single course for
their degree may be admitted provided they
make satisfactory arrangements for the
completion of their undergraduate work.
The shorter period covered by the extra
session permits a reduction of about 25 per
cent in room and board. Tuition remains
unchanged, at $600, but room and board will
amount to less than $400, so that the total
school expense for this session, including
necessary textbooks, will not be over $1,000.
A limited amount of financial aid from the
Loan Fund will be available to properly
qualified students,

Only about NM per cent of last June’s class
of 395 men, the school reports, have their
names on the school’s active list as seeking
jobs. This is close to a normal condition at
this time of year, Even under present con-
ditions, says the school, there -is need for
specially equipped young men trained in the
theory and* practice of business.

Charles R. Lake, '29, was awarded his
Master-of Business-Administration degree by
the Business School Jast June. John K. Pep-
per, Jr., 31, has returned for his second year,
and three of last year’s Seniors, Powhatan
M. Conway, Edward C. Dwelle and John R.
Keller, are registered as first-year students
this fall.

Volunteer-Firemen-—-

Answer Barly Call

A fire call was Thiwered by members of
the Davidson Student Volunteer Fire De-
partment on Monday morning at 1:30 at the
home of M. H. Goodrum, West Main Street.
The fire was caused by defective bricking
in the hearth, and was soon put out by the
use of hand extinguishers. The damage was
slight.
The alarm was telephoned to Watts Hall
where it was answered by one of the occu-
pants. ‘He in turn gave the alarm to “Cop”
Johnson, who* gave the general alarm by.
means of the siren.

Approximately fifty members of the stu-
dent body turned out in case that they should
be needed in fighting the fire.

Bee A ai

PLANET

Vductions, and population.”

The Bookshelf

The Silver Screen

Van tase ‘Geography—Hendrik Willer
Van Loon (Simon and Schuster, $3.75):

Van Loon seems to have a genius for clari-
fying difficult subjects and in his latest book
on geography he puts his subject and its
habits in concise and effective language. In
reading this most original work one gets
a_true sense of proportion and the relation
of man to this earth he inhabits.

Here for 504 pages the author dramatizes
the solar system. He shows us what seas
look like without water. He puts all man-
kind into an area one-half mile square. He
does things with a handkerchief to show
how. mountains come and go, The book
should be read with an atlas at your elbow
because he carries the reader from the
frozen regions of Siberia to the torrid trop-
ics of the Caribbean.

Mr. Van Loon tells us how we are ex-
hausting the natural resources of this earth,
with no thought* of the morrow, and the
great mistake that has been made in the
past by fertilizing our fields with the dead.
He points out that there is little difference
between the world at large and let us say
a place like Davidson. If there is, in his
opinion it is a matter of quantity rather than
quality.

It is not a geography in the accepted
meaning of that word because he attempts
to tell a story about the world in which we
live and gives an account of what nature has
done to man. He writes with a fluent, pun-
gent English that gives the work color and
force. The drawings done by the author
which are sprinkled throughout stir the im-
agination besides lending weight to the ar-
guments set forth.

Beginning with Greece, he takes each
country and covers the entire world.He
applies a sort of human interest story to
geography, stressing the countries that have
“contributed most to the sum total of hu-
man happiness in the world.”

In the first chapter, “These Are the Peo-
ple,” he says, “The gift of reason in its
more sublime form and the ability to think
for oneself is restricted to a mere handful
of men and women. They therefore be-
come the masters who lead. The others, no
matter how much they may resent the fact,
can only follow. The result is a strange
halting procession, for no matter how hard
people may try, there are ten thousand strag-
glers for:every true pioneer.”

Further on he comments on the hope of
survival, saying, “WE ARE ALL OF US
FELLOW PASSENGERS ON THE SAME
AND WE ARE ALL OF US
EQUAL “RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
HAPPINESS AND WELL-BEING OF THE
WORLD) IN WHICH WE HAPPEN TO
LIVE.”

He defines geography as “the science of
the earth's surface, form, physical features,
natural and political divisions, climate, pro-

In speaking of how high we have been in
the air or how low down in the earth, we
read that on a globe three feet in diameter,
the highest mountain in the world, Mount
Everest, would show about as thick as a
thin piece of tissue paper and the deepest
hole inthe ocean, just east of the Philippine
Islands, would be represented by a dent the
size and shape of a postage stamp. And as

you know, as-yet we have never descended
to the bottom of the ocean nor climbed
Mount Everest.

I read this interesting work with the great-
est enjoyment and feel that those who
haven't read this enthralling book will read
it with pleasure and profit.

—JACK_WILLIAMS, JR.

Y » <ans °

YH

2

© Davidson ae ee

GSE KE

ZS SD

JOE E.

Yo

a+

eo + 3 Z '° >

“YOU SAID A MOUTHFUL”

WEDNESDAY 5

“SPORT PARADE” ys

JOEL McCREA &

j| THURSDAY f

FRIDAY

“THEY CALL IT SIN”
LORETTA YOUNG

on SATURDAY
3 “BIG STAMPEDE” 2
JOHN WAYNE ;

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
“IF I HAD A MILLION”

ez }

BROWN

Wednesday, Nov. 30 (Afternoon, free show)
~ Sport Parade—(RKO)

“Lhis story contrasts two college heroes
afterthey have been graduated. One (Joel
McCrea)\decides to cash-in on ‘his college
honors by ‘becoming a professional .player,
while the other.(William Gargan) sets out
to become a sportswriter. Joel goes stead-
ily down-as a-professional-while-Bill; by-hard
work and the inspiration of a girl (Marian
Marsh), advances in his field; Complications
set in when the two’ become Fivals for the
affection of Miss Marsh.

Skeets Gallagher and Robert Bonctiley
add materially to the entertaniment value
of the picture. There are also some ex-
ceptionally fine action shots of sports events.

(Night)—Men Are Such Fools—(RKO)

This is the rather long-winded story of
how suffering and imprisonment inspired a
musician to compose his masterpiece.” Leo
Carrillo, Vivien Osborne, and Una Merkel
portray their parts excellently.

Thursday, Dec. 1—You Said a Mouthful—
(First National)
Joe E. Brown finds himself acclaimed as
a long distance swimming champion and an
entrant in a marathon swimming race, be-
cause of his infatuation with Alice Brandon
(Ginger Rogers), he accepts his mistaken
identity. The tragic part is that he does not
even know how to swim.

The picture is amusing in a characteristic
Brownian way.

Friday, Dec. 2—They Call It Sin—(First Na-
tional)

Another version of the story of the small-
town girl who falls in love with a man from
the city and on following him back to the
city finds that he is already engaged to a
debutante. However, she soon finds out
what a person of her accomplishments can
do on Broadway.

4 Besides possessing Loretta Young and two
leading men (David Manners and George
Brent), this picture has the unique Una
Merkel, who contributes considerably to the
entertainment value. The title is really not
at all indicative of the nature of the picture.

Saturday, Dec. 3—The Big Stampede—

(Warners)

This is another manifestation of the re-
turn of the Western. Cattle rustlers, deputy
sheriffs, and brave heroes are ‘all present
in this picture. But on the whole the pic-
ture is better than the average of this type.
John Wayne, Noah Berry, and Luis Alberni
are in the cast.

Monday and Tuesday, Dec. 5-6—If I Had a

Million—( Paramount)

More than two dozen stars including Ali-
son Skipworth, W. C. Fields and Wynne
Gibson (in a typical hard-boiled role), com-
bine ‘to give an unusually entertaining per-
formance,

Roosevelt’s Election
Hurts Minor Parties

Chicago—(IP)—Prof. Paul H. Douglas, of
the University of Chicago, who was chair-
man of the committee of 1,000 which sup-
ported Norman Thomas, Socialist Presi-
dential candidate, asserted last week that
the sweeping victory of Franklin D. Roose-
velt was “a body blow” to the plans for the
immediate creation of a new liberal party
in this country.

“There is no present prospect,” he said,
“for a strong third party. President-elect
Roosevelt will play ball with the progres-
sives.”

Thomas received a_ surprisingly small
number of popular votes in the election. It
had been predicted that he would poll be-
tween 2,000,000- and 4,000,000-—-votes-—as—the-
voters rushed to protest hard times. In-
completed returns from ‘the country at large
indicate that when the official counts are
all in, Thomas will have received somewhere

around a half-million votes in all.

I like.”

for pipes.

fF 5 ZS cH 5 ee <4 yy

GRANGER IS AMERICA’S

| auohl /o be vale Mus

of (1 //; al old / pipe!

“BUT INSTEAD
I actually find myself look-
ing forward to the: moment
when you pack the bowl with
Granger. It’s the aroma that

Smokers like Granger be-
cause it is made just right

PIPE TOBACCO
