NS

THE DAVIDSONIAN,

APRIL 6, 1932

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col
emai Year. Entered as second class matter, at the Post
Office,” Davidson, North Carolina. :

Articles for publication must be in, the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

mp
2
“w
g
a
on
==
=>
aoa
4
|
Zz
i
H
H

Editor-in-Chief

Gives wucescdcccsscsccnuks cases Business Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF :

E. O. GUERRANT. ---—-.-------Managing tor
D. D Managing tor
R. L Managing tor
Cc. F. -Managing Editor
B. B Athletic Editor
D. G. Feature Editor
Wi Wee hRANKGINGciss.s0--ssubselcccuscccaussene, Feature Fditor
HW (RWWA IN Gesen ikbubaccauscdscadauscneo Review - Editor
} E hange Editor
Cc. A te Editor
W. S. = -A iate Editor
W. H Pye Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

TC MANSONG i. 3. 2oeccc cases Assistant Business Manager
-Assistant Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager
Subscription Manager
Solicitor

Solicitor

..Solicitor

Solicitor

Prvserp>
Mowers

.---------President
Vice-President
Secretary-Treasurer

H. WHITEHEAD
LAKE

sP

R. H. ALDERMAN F. H. COVINGTON
B. B. TAYLOR L. S. GAMBLE

G. FE. BAILEY R. E. LORRAINE
f E. BOYD E. L. POWELL

. P, PRESTON R. PRATT-THOMAS
W. R. WARD A, F, SCHENCK

0. CASALI ; W. M. THOMPSON

T. THOMPSON

L, W. Wietiane Ww.
JACK WILLIAM J. A. HUNTER

APRIL 6, 1932

Imitation is the sincerest flattery—C. C. Colton. -

PARAGRAPHICS :
After a week of holiday the student body should
feel more like getting down to the old grind, and com-
batting the evils of “spring-fever’ which are sure to
tempt the unwary ones.
eS EEA y yamine
Congratulations to Jerome Clark and Paul Brown
on their recent elections—also to the other leaders
who were selected to serve with them.
peas p runners
Dean Rusk seems well on the way to being on the
championship lacrosse team of England. The surpris-
ing thing is that he never played the game before his
entrance to Oxford.

———D

After fifteen years the members of the Class of
1932, whether they realize it or not, are returning to
their last two months of educational pursuit.

|p),

R. O. T. C. students are looking forward with awe
and despair to the coming inspection. The battalion
is being rapidly whipped into shape for the ordeal.
D

According to the. announcement of E. C. Dwelle,
the annual will be out earlier than usual this year.
All bills must be paid up before the book may be
secured by the individual.

D.

The Tennessee Mugwump, in its latest issue, makes
apologies to the Yow! for unintentional plagiarism.

Well, accidents will happ

NOMINATIONS

The Davidsonian staff nominates the follow-
ing men for the editorship for 1932-1933:

E, 0. GUERRANT
D. D. McBRYDE
R. L. McCALLIE
Cc, F. MYERS

B. B. SUGG

A GREAT LOSS

With the end of the semester of this school year
Davidson loses one of her greatest characters, one
of her strongest supporters, one of her best pro-
fessors; a person who has shown in a great va-
riety of ways his interest in her welfare. Colonel
Scott came to Davidson in 1928, along with the
members of the present Senior class, and each year
of his service here has added to his popularity.

Before coming to Davidson Colonel Scott at-
tended the Infantry School at Fort Leavenworth,
having taken his undergraduate work at the Mili-
tary Academy at West Point. He has been for
the last three summers the head of the summer
R. O. T.'C. camp at Anniston, Ala. This is a dis-
tinct honor for an officer to have this command
given him for three successive years.

When he leaves Davidson he will enter the
Army Industrial College in Washington where he
will study for a year.

It will be difficult for the government to re-
place Colonel Scott. He has been eminently suc-
cessful in all that he has undertaken here, and
that has been a great deal. The unit has been
classed as an honor unit every year since the Colo-
nel has been here. Davidson students recognized
his services by inviting him to join Omicron Delta
Kappa, honorary leadership fraternity.

It is with a feeling of great loss that Davidson
bids him farewell, and wishes him good luck. ©

2

A PLEA FOR SLEEP

Repetition is said to be the basis of emphasis,
and if this be true perhaps this editorial will not
go the way of most editorials; for it is te be a
repetition. In his editorial column of the “Yowl”
Editor Bell recently complained of the distracting
habit which certain men on the campus have of
calling loudly to someone else just at the hour
when most respectable, peace-loving students are
drifting into deep somnolence. There are a great
many things at which one may become irritated,
hut there are none. which cause, at least to this
writer, more justifiable wrath. It is quite bad
enough to be awakened at a decent hour in the
morning by a slowly tolling bell, but to be dragged
from the joy of deep slumber at such an hour-—
one feels that murder would be too good for the
criminal.

It is difficult enough for students to get their
work done, retire, and go to sleep, being disturbed
only by the lights and the ordinary noises of
Dormitory Row; but these things are natural and
apparently unavoidable. We are making our com-
plaint about those things—that thing—+this habit
of shouting to the utmost height of the vocal abil-
ity at such an hour, and to such a peaceful, un-
willing audience.

And we would not complain were these noises
necessary; if there was a life and death matter
of which the recipient had to be informed, it
would not be out of order to let him know about
it in the quietest way possible. But after the dis-
turbing person has finally, after several attempts,
awakened his man, and got him to the window, he
usually calls, “Go to bed!” or some other sup-
posedly bright saying. It is so funny! The oriy-
inator of the little joke goes-on his way laughing
and thinking about how good and amusing ‘life
is; but what of those men who have heen so vio-
lently offended?

If this editorial ever causes one man to desist
from this action we will not think our writing
was in vain.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

Washington and Lee

Red Nichols and His Band have been definitely chosen
as the orchestra to play for the Washington and Lee
Cotillion Club Easter dances, April 11-12. This set of
dances are known as “Little Finals.” Both of these
dances will be formal. There will be a little reduction
in the prices for these dances.

The W. & L. Finals are not a certainty as yet because
the members of the student body won't pledge their sup-
port to them, that is, not enough to put on the dances
and not lose on them.

Wayne King (according to The Loudspeaker, a part
of The Ring-tum Phi) lost two dollars recently when he
got married. He wagered that amount that he wouldn't
get married before he was forty; he is thirty-one. He is
now on a tour but plays over the WEAF-NBC chain at
5:30 p. m. on Wednesdays. He is not on from Chicago
at 11:45 every’night; Bernie Cummings has replaced him
and Ted Weems has replaced Bernie Cummings. Cum-
mings is on at 11:45 and Weems is on at 12:15.

Clemson

The new commandant at Clemson for next year will be
Major Thomas H. Munroe, Infantry, at present a stu-
dent at the Army War College at Washington.

The Tiger put out an April Fool number, which was
rather comical. Here are some of the headlines: Peoples
State Bank to Reopen at Clemson; Fliers Land in Paris
and Inquire for Speakeasy; They Are Still Drurik; Great
Catastrophe at College Laundry—Cadet Receives Laun-
dry on Time—950 Spectators Swoon.

Georgia

The Eighth Annual Religious Welfare Conference is to
be held at Georgia today and tomorrow with Dr. George
W. Truett, pastor of the First Baptist Church of Dallas,
Texas, and one of the most prominent preachers in the
South, as the chief speaker,

Vv. M. I.

Ted Weems and his famous band will furnish the music
for the V. M. I. Finals in June this year. The V. M. I.
Finals are famous for getting such splendid orchestras:

& 1926-28 was Jan Garber ; ’29, Hal Kemp; ’30, Tal Henry;

"31, Coon-Sanders; and now ’32, Ted Weems.

N. C. State

Here is another school that put out an April Fool
paper. It is very good; if you want some laughs go down
to the “Y” reading room’and read it. For instance, there
is a picture of Adolphe Menjou, the moving picture artist,
with his name being given as Major Michael Adolphe
Perry. Under his name is this: “Convicted by the Board
of Trustees yesterday on charges of laziness and incom-
petence, the gentleman shown above was discharged from
the teaching faculty of State College.”

There are im the United States 81 college fraternities
and 34 college sororities.

Canada has 23 colleges and universities, The largest is
Montreal University with 7,268 students. The oldest is
the University of King’s College at Halifax, founded in
1789. : )

.

“.. Of Ships & Shoes—
& Sealing Wax—
Of Cabbages & Kings...”

Duncan McBryde

FOUND IN THE DEAD LETTER OFFICE

Rumple Dormitory,
Room number one.
(Room for improvement).

Deer Paw:

Do you reckon granpaw thought the day would ever
come when the steering wheel would be the family circle?

I shore enjoyed comin’ down home for a few daze. But
a guy here made me mad tother day. Said I come from
a hick’ town. I ast him what that wuz. (Yu see I didn’t
€ven know what one was, so how could I be from one?)
He said a hick town was when they painted “COME
AGAIN” on the back of the “WELCOME” sign in a
town. But I thunk a while and reelized that we didn’
have any WELCOME sign t’ home. (So how could we
paint “COME AGAIN” on tother side?) He said his
idea of a hick town wuz where everybody knows whose
check is good. (But we aint got any bank t’ home; so
there aint any checks.) He said I come from a one horse
town. (He didn’t know that the horse had sleeping sick-
ness, and purty soon there wouldnt even be one horse.)

But I got it back on him, paw. I thunk up a right pert
answer (this last sentence borrowed from Ragin). I tole
him he wuz even dumber than the girl who got fired
from Woolworths because she couldn't remember the
prices! I tole him that if he said what he really thought
he would be speechless.

I shore did enjoy my Easter vacation with you all. I
allus love to set out on the piazza and hear the sun
shinin’, and the grass growing, and the dogs bursting into
barkter. But I got purty tired, too. Dead tired. Flat
tired.

Bummin’ was a mess. It’s all right to walk with a suit
case. But there’s such a thing as carrying the thing too
far.

Work gettin harder . . . nights gettin shorter . . . me
gettin sleepier. Work pilin up on the table ... me pilin
in bed. Work very much alive ... me about dead.

I figger that if all the boys in ,college who slept in
class were laid out end to end, they would be much more
comfortable.

Ya know, paw, after gettin aroun a bit in the country,
I have begun to believe that the only thing left in the
world that can be shocked is grain.

I see in the papers where whiskers are coming back.
Shucks, that aint news. They always do. I‘bet Lindbergh
didnt have any trouble gettin rid of old razor blades. I’d
call his little trip a success. Its not every trip you go
on that you can throw’ your old blades out the winder
and then not hear from them again. By the way I heard
that Lindberghs baby wuz took off the other day. So I
dropped him a line wishing him many happy returns. You
reckon as how he thought I wuz purt?

Say, by the way, paw. Did you hear about the one-
eyed Scotchman who claimed as how they ought to selt
him a half-price ticket to the movie? (Wal, I didnt either.
Cause he never went to the movie.)

Brief pause for station announcement. Important notice.

This program’ is coming to you from “Mac” of the
“CAR-MAC-WELL” Company, in One, Rumple.
This is no joke. We frame your group pictures, chap-
ter pictures, pictures of—well of your sisters, mottoes,
et cetera. We even framed a silhouette of Roger Hall.
So you see, with the CarMacWell firm nothing is im-
possible. See Bill CAR-ter, Dave Cald-WELL, or
ty shelf.

We got this idea of advertising from the radio, We
thought you'd be tired of the “program” anyway, so we

* switched to advertising. After all, though, it doesn’t mat-

ter. Cause we’re the only ones who read the column any-
way (except a few specimens like YOU).

I allus thought till the other day that GINN & COM-
PANY were distillers.

TOMORROW'S N. C. POEM

Here lie the bones
of Johnny Jones.

He died a horrible
death.

He drank a bottle
of Blisterine.

And it took away
his breath.

We could just print a lot of jokes, but you'd only
laugh at them.

I just bought a copy of FREE WHEELING, by
Ogden Nash. But doggone it, it wasn’t free!

I remain
With all my curiosity,
Cellu Lloyd (Cousin to Harold Lloyd.)

What Do You Think?

“There is said to be enough of the-old, large-sized paper
money in existence to wipe out about half of America’s
national: deficit,” says the Christian Science Monitor, and

continues :

“United States Treasury reports set the amount as
$575,000,000. Nearly three years ago all the old-sized
bills were called in, and yet today more than $500,000,000
worth still are outside those channels which would sweep
them into the treasury’s waste paper baskets and its

macerators,

“None of these $575,000,000 can be performing a con-
structive mission. Were any of them to drift into the
channels of trade, they would speedily find their way into
the banks, by which they would be sentenced to the fed-
eral repository for homeless dollars. In exchange, slim-
mer, more youthful bills would emerge, ready to speed up
the currents of commerce. A very few of the old-style
bills may be wandering around i a circle, but in all
probability the great majority have gone into temporary
retirement and need to be teased to come out and enjoy
the beautiful spring sunshine. Undoubtedly many found
their way into private collections and others were de-
stroyed in fires, but the average paper note of even the
denomination of $1 is generally on a leash if it is ever

allowed far away from home.
“Tt is a foregone conclusion that there are persons who
are acquainted with the

oo of these. antiques
and thereby in a position t art a movement for a na-

tional reunion of the grizzled greenbacks at the United
States Treasury building in Washington. Such a reunion
would hurry the oncoming returti of prosperity.”

The use of the Japanese cherry tree for ornamental
purposes in this country has apparently become a sort of
fad. If any river bank, or slope along a public highway
near a city is to be adorned, someone says “Japenese
cherry trees,” and that settles it.

The Japanese cherry tree is a poor second to any one
of various American trees. It gives a mass of white
blossoms for a few days, but the tree itself has no beauty
of form, its foliage is not beautiful through the summer,
and it has no beauty of autumn coloring, no matter what
the conditions of autumn may be. :

The average modern boy and girl get married with no
thought of compatibility beyond a mutual dislike for fried
oysters or an appetite for salted peanuts, or a shared
admiration for some movie hero, according to David Sea-
bury, a consulting psychologist of New York.

‘ For this reason, and for the reason that few individuals
understand themselves, there is a sea of divorce, crime,
and suicide, Seabury declared.

Seabury predicted that psychology, although still imma-
ture, eventually will direct every act and progress of
civilization. Speaking before the Chicago Executive
Club, he said:

“Impulses have been reduced to four basic emotions
or causes, They are rage, fear, sex, and wonder. The
first three are practically apparent at birth, while wonder
develops, within a few years. One of these emotions is
dominant in every person.

“Rage will. make a great, reckless leader. “Fear is
found in a good, cautious business man. Ministers, doc-
tors, nurses and such are governed by sex, which emo-
tion includes the desire to serve and care for persons.
Scientists and abstract thinkers are naturally dominated
by wonder.”

Seabury gives the following recipe for improving the
social structure :

“Course in psychology should be instituted in public
schools and the study be made compulsory from the low-
est grade onward; young married couples should be given
a thorough course in parental training, and yearly exam-
inations and classifications of all children should be made.

“By the latter method, criminal tendencies, irregular
thought, habits, or dominant beliefs might be curtailed or
encouraged as the case may be.’

WHEN KNIGHTHOOD WAS IN FLOWER
When knighthood was in flower,

in the bower
in the shower,

With has true love at his side;

He forgot to note the hour

of the clock
up on the tower,

So her father tanned his hide.

RUMPLE REPARTEE

Cell No. One Speaking: “Whatsa matter; girl not
coming?”

Cell No. Two Replying: “Aw, she’s coming, but she
can’t even send a telegram without saying ‘Stop’ every
sentence.”
