35 | Ot e

a

Vol. XX.

lenda Lux Gbi O1 Orta Libertas

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. c., DECEMBER 14, 1932

___No la 14

State Nominations Wor : [Dr. J. R. McGregor |
by Three Davidson Men | is Leader at Vespers
for Rhodes des Scholarships bor

Dr. J}. R. MeGregor, pastor of the Jirst
Paul Brown, William Mulliss,

Presbyterian Cherch of Lexington, N.,C.,
spoke iast Sunday evening at Y vespers. His
Duncan McBryde Selected in
Their States

talk was not only inceresting and interni-
PROMINENT ON CAMPUS

and

ing, but also of great practical value. The
meeting was opened by the singing of tro
hytuns, after which Lyman Clardy, the lead-

. a . . cr, read the seripture and Gene Cannon and
Regional Meetings. Determine Final

Choices in Competition

“Simon, I have somewhat

. ; to say tnto thee. “And hic said. Master. say
Three Davidson Seniofs won staie nomi-

,|took as his text,

Bruce Peabody led in prayer. Dr. McGreger>

Christmas Gift

iMoney talks!” It tells a. story
about the man who; spends it. It tells
a story more convincing than his ac-
tions or any wo¥ds which might tumble
from his lips. It tells what a man
thinks about himself. It tells what_he_-
thinks of others. The way we spend
our money is a silent revelation of
ourselves.

“One. of the glorious revelations of
the Spirit_of_Davidson_is the Student
Body Gift Campaign. It is a monu-

ment to the Master who taught the

. on. * {
‘Nations for Rhodes Sehalarships on Satur=

“The speaker sad that we’ should be will- [fe

~~ SOPHOMORES PREPARE FOR’

HOLIDAY SEASON” AS“ANNUAL~

—HOUSEPARTY IS ANNOUNCED

|Three Trips Will Be

_ Taken by Debaters

World ‘the trué. méaning of giving. lt

Alumni Gymnasium to Be Scene of
ovel Cabaret Entertainment
Saturday Afternoon

s ——. ; JELLY -LEFTWICH-PEAYS

Tday, “Deeember 10.~ The three so honored.
“were Dunean D. McBryde, of Linden, N.C,
who was seleeted from a number of candi-
dates appearing beiore the North Carolina
_Nominating Committee at Chapel Hill; Pau:

ing to listen for the same reason that Simon
listened ‘to what Christ had to say. Klee knew
and so should we that our Lord is the one
‘who has a word, the tinal word, ‘to say to
_all_ questions. There are several gestions

F. Brown, Jr. of Avlahta, Ga.. who was one | of prime importance facing our country now..

of the winners in the State of Georgia, and] [irst. the question of American business.
Withaat FE. Atultiss, Martinsburg, W. Va..'Qur country ‘has been richly blessed with
who returned to his home state for the con-|raw materials, but at the same time tat

test. The first two men went to Atlanta these are going to waste, men and boys arc

gn Monday for the regional mecting of the wandering up and down our country loolcing |

nominating committee. and Miuiliss atterfded jor work. Roger Babson savs that the cs-
a correspoitding meeting in Philadelphia. .sentials of prosperity are four. He naines
Other winners in these three states Men-. them in this order; honesty. faith, vision, and
‘tioned were: Merriman Cuninggim, an hon- thrift. The speaker expressed his admira-_
or graduate of Vanderbilt “University, who | tion. for our President in forcing Congress
is studying at Duke, and who, along with | 10 put a clause im their yiemployment réhel
McBryde. reptesented North Cacotina: fugh’ pit requiring that labor Se paid a minimum
M. Dorsey, the other Georgia selection. who ' of two dollars a day. Dr..MeGregor. spoke
_lives in Atlanta and is a student at, Emory of arreitent. in hts Own. town where a
University. and Harry R. Pugh. a resident: familys of eight was living on pinto beans.
-af Charleston. \V. Va.. who attends the Uni-| even thongh Some ot the spires had
versity of Virginia. measles. A woman, who is a stockholder in
Davidson also had a representative on the the company that the father if this family
North Carolina Nominating Committee in. (Continued on page 3)
the person of Dr. Vowles of the Language! - [ea

Department. Dr. Vowles has been a mem-
Eighth Duke Endowment

is, the kind of monument of which He -
would approye, Your money is not. to

be invested in wood and stone, but in

_life. , ot March. This trip will inelude debates |
Brad [ les -

“One “need_ not feel, any hesitation in «7h ih. the Cotege vt Charleston, at Charies
predicting for the campaign a glorious ‘ton. S. C, the University of Georgia. at
. Pe * lL awthens, Ga. the University of Florida, ‘at

success this year, for the “Spirit of Da-

vidson is not fiction but fact.”

“Carl Pritchett. |

Y¥. M. C. A. Begins Annual |

Student Gift Campaign
, —for Support rt of Missions

: Gainesville, Fla,

“the ebay g feam
three trip this year and a Southern trin
has been arranged detinitely for the middle

ind Rollins College al Wins
ter Dark, Ulorida @

Acrangements for a Western and a North;
em trip have not vet been completed. al-
though a debate has heen scheduied with
Rutgers, at New Brunswick, N. J. The North-
erncirip will be ta®en ‘about the first of
April. -

‘The subieet which is to be debated thisling , Jelly Leftwich and his Orchestra.’
“Resolved. That the United States | Soutir’s finest college band. has been’ signed

year ist

will probably make |

Dances Planned for Friday and Satur-
day Nights in Charlotte
Armory

With their aiinual week-end only two days
off, the Sopliquiore*class of. Davidson Tol-"
lege is, making plans for one of the largest
and most pronusing Sophomore house parties
ever ‘given. A committee consisting of rep-
resentatives {rom every soctal traternity and
several non fraternity men is planning a se-
ries of gala events that will make the honse
party givey by whe class of 1935 outstand-
the

Dormitory Canvassers Afford Every|Sheakl, Agree to the Caneellation of the | {o’ ptay. for all the festivities of the weck- «

Member of Student Body Op-
portunity to Make Pledge ~

THOUSAND DOLLAR .GOAL

Davidson Unity Church and Glade Val-
ley School Afe | Are Recipients

2

According to * juiiouneement made in the
Davidsontan Iaér week. the annual Student

Inter Atied War Dehts."
The varsity debating team consists of
uwo Seniors, Leland AtcKeithan and Charles

Moore: two Juniors, UWugh Hawkins anil
Rawling Pratt-Thomas, and two Soptio-
mores, Robert Smith and Gordo: (Skip)
Brown, The alternates are Tom Caldwell,

fohn Richards ast ba Humphries!

——The Rhodes Scholarship nomination ‘is an,
honor well deserved by thesé men, all “of |
° whom have -been very active at Davidson
“and havé made exuraordinary” fFscholarship | Men today oi wide vision have a hurning,
—records. McBryde, who is a ministerial can-- desire to do something for others. to leave
didate, has been prominent in journalism andi behind them some monumental beneficence
in literary society work on the campus, be- that will _fO on serving humanity for gen-
(Continued on page 4) — This was _clearly exemplified. in

afternoon wit-
ofthe eighth
Duke Hndowmentr. A

Ber of this committee for tke past five years,
Anniversary ‘Celebrated

" erations.

tthe service held Ise Sunday
e . . . —fnessing die commicnioratian

Christmas Music to Be anniversary of the

e

Featured in “y” Service men were present and participated in the

~ [program at the First Methodist Caurch ‘in
; Scan

The vesper service ta be held by the: Charlotte.
Y. M. C. A. next Sunday evening will bey, The exercises .which were held in this
devoted principally to the singing of Christ- Oatidsome church were notable for their
mas. Carols. In addition, however, to the dignified Sstmplicity. The principal speakers
special -Christinas numbers to be iurnished i were: Gov. O, Max Gardner oi North Caro-
by the Glee Club under the direction of Mr..lina, Gow. Ibra C. Blackwood o1 Seuth Car-
Eugene Crait, there will be two guest artists | olina, Judge “William R. Perkins of Naw
present. Mr Oliver Beard and Miss-Gertrude | Yorko vice-chairman of the board of trustecs
Gower will. contribute to the singing in!of the Duke Endowmentrand-the Hon. C. R.
rendering special Christmas numbers. Mr:: Hocy of Shelby.—
Beard sings at the Myers Park Presbyterian | Others taking part on the program includ-
Shurch and Miss Gower at the Second Pres-. edt, Dr. Walter L. Lingle, President of Da-

Officers Chosen

; (New officers have just been elected
+by the Ministerial Band. The follow-
ing men were chosen: John Whiteyl,
president; Ellis Oakes, vice-president,
and Courtney Ross, secretary and
treasurer. The speaker at the election
meeting was Jake Mackorell, whose
subject was “Preparation for the Min-
istry.” The Band, consisting of those
students who are preparing for the >
ministry, looks forward to a successful
term under the leadership of these new
men.

byterian, These two gifted soldists are weil ividson College; Qr. W. J. McGlothlin, Presi?

known throaghout this section for their abil-!dent of Furman “Giiversity ; Dr. Robert Wil-

ity in singing. (Continued on page 4) “0
The usual method of. carrying -out—thicim-

pressive service will be followed. Three +;

members of the student body will read se- “The -Yow!” to Come >

lected passages from) the Bible as the ro- |

gram progresses, P Out December 20th
The auditorium and stage will be deco- |

rated with grden shtubs of the_ holiday sea-' The Christmaszissnie, see of. the Yow! will ap-
be eo Sur ers cams sanilaplaiagabtenastel . .

sonvand tid servicé will be Gonducted in| pear on the 2th of December. This is the

candle hight. | _lsecond of four issues scheduled for this
The impressive candle service and the fea-| year. a

ture of Christmas numbers should attract; , Bediuring this assuc- will be a- Christmas

many persons to this Vespers, as has been .cover designed by Reeves Pope._ The mag-

—the case in past years.Last year more than / azine will contain the Se Eee ee

six hundred. were present. A and anecdotes. together with several lonfer

articles of humorous nature.

OF special interest” will be a syndicated
column, written by a member of the staff
of College Humor Magazine.- This is ue
ifirst appearance of the column in the Yowl,
land it is expected to add greatly to the in-
terest_in the magazine.
the Cynies—Circle will discuss humorously
such subjects as hissing: and the Davidson
band:

ion find a place here.

just before the end of school.

produced last. year.

‘
‘

eT - \

imumber o1 prominent educaters and states--

Jistry here.

Other articles in.

This total of | known substance.

Rody Grit Campaigar ts to be Idunched tu-
night. As already stated, this drive is) ini~
uated by the ¥. M,C: A. cach year tovraise
a fand of $000 to be used an, the support
of “worthy ¢auises. This year the Money is
to be sased in two projects: the Davidson
Unity Church and Ure Glade Valley Ibgh
School. ~ —

‘Ievery member o1 the student dy will
be afforded. an opportunity to sont bate ta

ers will Canvass ‘the ‘lormitori¢s. Pledge LEE
will. be taken oat this time ad collections
will, be made carly in Pebruary.

c Tors Otte “Brit were. decided]
upon by the VY. M. C.-A. Cabinet recentty
alter a great deal af consideration o1 the

‘most. worthwhile needs that
(Continued on pape

were brought
“q) .

we

Dr. Arbuckle i is Analyst

in Peculiar Poison Case|

- ——a

Davithon was represented in a most per
culiar poison case which occurred _aé Lfun-
tersville, N.C. * dunking: the past few weeks

by Dr. TFB. Arbuckle, Professor ¢: Chem-

_Two_children of one_of the _employees . in
a a mill at the above mentiéned town, located
only seven miles from Davidson, were play-
ing on one of the junk heaps which are be-
hind the factory. They found-theré a white
substance wWhicl) apparently

ial er as

‘Dr. James +S. Wilson, of —

U. of Va., Gives Lecture:

Atindlincing thaG American writers tee
irom America (> forcign con-tries to escape

our mdustrialization, Ir James Sauchall
_ Wilson, Professor of English in the. Uni

versity .of Virginia, editor of the Vigdssin
Quartérly, and past member of the Phi Beta
Kappa Senate, renuaded his Davison Col-

audicuce tiat as a result. ot this, thése

can life.

This was the secoird ri a series of jectures
delivered im Davidson hy the University of
Virginia professor. The first was tho. an-

of the public initiation of new members into
the Davidson Chapter Phi Beta-Kappa.
lav Wilson's subje to the guests or the
‘Scarned sociely eat 1¢ pubhe ceremony was
“Best Sellers in’ Washington's ‘Vime?

The second Jecturé was delivered cn Tues-
day morning atthe chapel hour The speak-
er stated his opinion that “in Southern col-

Iepes, we. now have mere able men than
formerly. but sometimes this ability is ac-
(Continue dyin page 3). =

Eu Literary Society
Group Visits-Queens

quite harmless, and gne child tasted it. In al ..Tnstead of hokling the ng the regular meeting of
short while he betamecauseated; amd ranpthe—umenean Literary Society here last
toward his home. Before he could reach it,} Fuesday might,.a group of members was

he fell... His mother. and another woman
ran to him. The report states that within
20 minutes the child was dead. Post-mor-
tems were made arid it was ascertained that
his stomach was practically caten away.

Dr, Arbuckle was called in to analyze the
white.sulbfance which had calused the death
of te child. He secured a smail quantity
of it, brought it to Davidson, and discov-
jered upon analyzing it that it was ‘sodium
nitrate, a compoun J which is used ior dyeing
at the mill whore the tragedy took place.

;to tender a special program.

sent to Queens-Chicora College in, Charlotte
Its program

was presided over by J. E. Richards, pres:-
dent of the Eu Society. Ruius Page deliv-
ered an interesting tatk on snakes, which

he illustrated ‘with liying specimens, and
Donald B. Bailey gavesa talle on “The Real
Benedict Arnold,” in whieh he brought to
light some very interesting points not com-
monly ‘known about |Arnold. Following Mr.

Bailey's. address, Mr. H. M. Hawkins gave
an enjoyable talk on (the subject, “Who

However, upon looking through the journals | Should Go to College.”

The articles in this departmént arejand other sources of information, no men-
written by students, and it_is the intention jon was .made_of sodium nitrate “being alhighfy interesting and cnjoyabic debate wasy
and desire of tte editor that Campus Opin-| dangerous poison.

Consequently Dr. Ar-

As a fitting climax to the program, a

heard. The’query was: “Resolved: That

buckle made-a deeper _research and discov-| Qucens-Chicora College and. Davidson Col-

(Continued on page 4)

Another Yow! is expected to be issued|ered- only two more cases where people|lege Should Unite and-Form a Co-educa-
about March 1, and the last issue will appear}have died as- a-result-ofrtiking: this well-| tional_Instituté’+-Charles Moore upheld the
One of these was found|affirmative side of the question while Bill
four issues increases by;one the number|in a very rare French journal and the other} Ward was the chief negative | contender.

(Continued on page 3) |

lend.

Llopre
saine writers fail co reflect the whe Ameri-

“| Guerrant.

Yhis orchestva plays every summer at
\rightsville Beach and is known through-
out the South’ for its good music and “un _
usual novelly numbers.

The house party oflieially begins on Vri-.
day might, December lo. wht a formal
dance wilt be held ta che Charlotte Arniory.

‘This danee will be from 10 to 2, and’ will
he ‘featured by several no-breaks. The motif
or ied antl green. Chiristmas “colors. will
prey ‘Ail at the Armure-s—n efficient —cam.
mittee YW in charge of the decorations. and
extensive plans have bern made to give the
place. a Testive dir.

Ou Soidyday arterneon, 1-T"
sented, in the torm of a cabatet. Program
arrangements are mcomplete as, this .
(Continued on page 3) &

will be pre-

Committee Chor: =
Make Centennial Plans

Atha tecent meeting or the student Lod:
afjer chapel exercises. there was some dis-

leussion of ahe celebration oF the Centerijal!
nual Phi Getwehappa leetuxe—fcliver ed_ an| year in. the life, of Davidson College.”
the night, nad Deeember 5. on’ tha occasion t schoial wey

The
observe irs hundredth birthday
in the yeos 1637) having Deca tounded in
1836 1837, ard the ‘studen {Jy has shown
interest in the possibility of helping secure—
a strong Freshman class for ‘thar occasion.

“A motion was nad: itqot the Hoor that the’
president of the Student Rody appoint a
commiticc_of students lo investigate the sit-
uation and to possibiliies for
serwice tQ the student Beoty a€ an early
date, This eommittc? was appointed. and
its members are G. HL. Browu, lL W. Pratt,
U. B, Gardner W iAulliss, and FE. O.
“The cOmmituec has the purpose ~-
of ‘presenting to the Student” Body the most
probable and most convenient way to make
the class of 1937 the largest and the best
in the history ot Davidson, Fhis class wil!
enter ext tall — ’ :

The committee named will meet in the
near future. and expects to present to the
Student Body a number of speeches by ntem-
bers of the committee wit proposals for
attaining the desired resutts.

Veport. any

Quips and Cranks >

The work on “Quips and Cranks,”

the Davidson annual, is now rapidly

progressing under the direction of R.
L. McCallie, Editor-in-Chief, and W.
aren ‘Thompson, Business Manager. Mést

of the photographic work has been
completed, Al of the individual foot-
ball pictures and all except one fra-
ternity group picture have been made.
At the present tine the staff is busy
“making out the Senior Activities List.
The staff is doing its best to keep the
annual up to the past records in spite
of many handicaps.

