THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 28, 1932

OVERLOOKING THE GOLDEN GATE

|

This picturesque golf course at Lincoln Park rides above the
famed Golden Gate Strait and its passing ships.

—Californians Inc. Photo

ve -

Monterey Peninsula

NOTE: Below is one of a series of
request articles written by Jack Williams,
Jr., in connection with a visit to the Na-
tional Editorial Association meeting on
the Pacific Coast.

As Kipling wrote, “The only bad thing
about San Francisco is that it is hard to
leave.” But it had its compensations because

. . . !
on leaving we started on the peninsula high- |
way down the Pacific Coast toward Los An- |!

geles. One hundred thousand Shriners ar-
rived in San Francisco the next day to hold
their convention, and so it goes, San Fran-|
cisco seems to have more than its share of
conventions.

At. Palo Alto we visited _Stanford Univer-
sity and attended an organ recital given by
Walter Allen in Memorial Chapel. The gates
of the Hoover estate on San Juan Hill were
thrown open to the party for an inspection
which I understand is a courtesy accorded
for the first time since Mr. Hoover was
made President.

At Salinas we heard the “yipees” of cow-
hands and the thud of pounding hoofs at
the annual California Rodeo. The. associa-
tion were guests of the city of Salinas and
watched a program packed with rangeland
thrills as 200 cowboys matched their skill
with the strength of bucking broncos, wild
bulls and long-horned steers. ‘The contest-
ants. were spurred to the greatest effort in
a race for four world championships and
$60,000 in prizes.

There are 32 events in all, including bronco
riding, bull riding, steer decorating and rop-
ingeerPen“horsé“racés were held, including
relay arid pony express for both. men and
women. af

Probably the favorite event was steer dec-
orating, the placing of a rubber band around
the steer’s Tose while on the run—the task
of jumping from a horse running at top
speed to the head of ti steer and then snap
the band into place. It. is a matter of letting
go at the right time while going at this ter-
rific speed.

Among the West's greatest bucking horses
seen in ction were Steamboat, the horse
that throws the best of riders; Reno, Crying
Jew, the horse that knows when he hears the
whistle blow after eight seconds and stops
bucking; Smoky Snyder, world champion
steer rider; Johnny Schneider, world cham-
pion cowboy.

While there we were treated to an old-
style Spanish barbecue. On the big day of
the rodeo, Colmo del Rodeo, 50,000 people
in the surrounding towns and cities assem-
bled to play and enjoy this old western
sport. Californians dike their rodeos and
fiestas. Santa Barbara has its “Old. Spanish
Days Fiesta” at which time business is sus-
pended and everybody dons costumes and
devotes two days to revelry and the enter-
tainment of visitors.

Leaving the car at the Salinas railway sta-
tion, we accompanied the party on a spe-
cial train to Monterey. At Del Monte we
were taken by cifizens on the famous 17-
Mile Drive, visiting historic Monterey
Carmel-by-the-Sea . . . Pacific Grove ...,Del
Monte Forest ... Monterey Peninsula Coun=
try Club ... Cypress Point ... Pebble Beach
... and Carmel Bay.

Carmel nestles back from the beach in a
grove of Monterey pines. Along its winding
streets are curious little art shops of Eng-
lish: design with thatched roofs and bow

|

windows. Somebody laughingly told us that
vacationers are not allowed to carry. guns
at Carmel because it would be too. great a
temptation for them to shoot their eccentric
neighbors. The place is full of artists and
they wear the most individual clothes and
live inthe queerest houses: You will re-
member that Carmel is where Aimee Mc-
Pherson was “kidnapped” a few years ago.

That night the Hotel Del Monte enter-
Del Monte
was built by Croker, a San Francisco finan-
cier, costing him millions of dollars, and they
called it “Croker's Folly.” It is the social and
| sports mecca of the Pacific Coast and is the

tained the association at dinner,

| last word in hotels.

Situated in the’ center of unsurpassed
beauty, its tower rises majestically in sthe
midst of an immense park of twenty thou-
sand acres, said to be the largest grounds
of any hotel. It is in reality a little princi-
pality—an enchanting, kingdom. On every
side are matchless vistas of gnarled cypress.
SuperlativéS(ssund “out of place when de-
scribing this spot for it is indeed “California.
at its best.” After dinner we went down to
the Spanish Grill where the Del Monte or-
chestra was playing.

Returning to Salinas by train at midnight,
we, sleepily crawled into the car and drove
for two hours to Paso Robles, 90 miles to the
south, This was one time I wished we were
going with the others by train, for they had
gone right to bed after leaving Del Monte.
The next morning we arose at 7 o'clock and
arrived at Santa Maria, where we joined the
convention again, and were breakfast suet
at the Santa Maria Inn.

Our last day in San Francisco we saw Ina
Claire, then Mrs. John Gilbert, in “Reunion
in Vienna” at the Curran Theater. This play
is from the pen of Robert E. Sherwood and

(Continued on page 6)

E NOTICE.

Have your shoes rebuilt at the
DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP
Work done while you wait.
C. A. KENNEDY, Proprietor

~—_—_———_—e

+

Who sings it better
than the Boswells?

Every Monday and Thursday... Connie,
Vet and Martha, in that bubbling Boswell

rhythm ... as irresistible as Ol’

Rivuh himself!

Man

And while you listen, light up a Chest-
erfield. Enjoy their fresh fragrance, their
mildness and better taste.

They’re mild . . . and yet they Satisfy.

Chesterfield Radio Program— Mondays, Wednes-
days, Fridays—10 p. m., Tuesdays, Thursdays,
Saturduys—9 p.m., E. S. T.; Columbia Network.

THE CIGARETTE THAT'S MILDER
THAT TASTES BETTER

@) 1932, Liccett & Myers Tonacco Co,

fojecondponoote]

The Student Store

SERVES  faaxianel

Davidson Students

B. E. ALLEN

A. L. THOMPSON

MANAGERS

{

wis |

CITT rrr rr rrr rrr rrr irr rrr irr rrr tit titi titi t1ittitititititriti1riririrrt
ITT}

Anion Theological Seminary

Richmond, Virginia

B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., LL.D., President

A graduate of Davidson and of Union studying abroad writes:

“There are able scholars here whose books are known and read

all over the religious world.

None of them can surpass some of our

professors at Union as téachers, and none of them can challenge a
student to joyous, practical Christianity as did our professors there.”

rrr rr rrr rrr tit rt tt tirir

rr

“DRUGS”
Make Our Store Your Store
Student Supplies

WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“PRESCRIPTIONS” ——~

4

H
y -
>

“SODAS”

“SUNDRIES”

