THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 6, 1932

Chesterfield Radio Program

MON. & THUR. TUES. & FRI. WED. & SAT.
BOSWELL ALEX RUTH
SISTERS GRAY ETTING

10:30 p.m.€.S.7. 10:30p.m.€.5.7. 10p.m.E.S.7.

SHILKRET'S ORCHESTRA every night but Sunday
NORMAN BROKENSHIRE. Announcer
COLUMBIA NETWORK

any pretty girls
like a MILD and

PURE cigarette that

© 1932, Liccetr & Myers Tosacco Co,

Fleagle Speaks at
Quadwrangle:Club

Discusses “A Page From the History
of Spain”

The regular monthly meeting of the Quad-
wrangle Club, an organization for the members
of the faculty, was held on March 31, at 7:30
o'clock, The following officers were elected for
the coming year: President, Dr. G. B. Watts;
Vice-President, Prof. H. E. Fulcher; Secretary-
Treasurer, Prof. J. P. Williams. Also the two
extra members of the executive committee were
chosen, Dr. Price Gwynn and Captain F. M.
Cochran.

Professor Fleagle was the speaker of the
evening, choosing as his subject, “A Page From
the History of Spain.” It was a mgst enlighten-
ing paper, sketching various political vicissi-
tudes of Spain from early days down to the
recent abdication of King Alfonso. It was a
clear-cut analysis of various changes in govern-
ment which Spain has undergone.

It was voted that at the May meeting there
would be a social meeting in honor of the
ladies.

HOLIDAYS ARE SPENT

(Continued from page 1)
and boating, and talking to the “fair femmes”
on the beach. What a life! Besides all this, the
baseball fan was in a sort of sandlot heaven in
the Sunshine State, where the New York Yan-
kees captured the championship of the so-called
“Grapefruit League.”

’Tis well to speak of those who've been, but
just a few lines about those who stayed. David-
son has its charms, and then Charlotte is but
twenty miles, and Greensboro with its Sedge-
field is but ninety, and here. Blue Steele and
his boys were right ready to hand the David-
sonians some red-hot dance rhythm. So all in
all, it was great while it lasted, but now it’s
over, but it’s only sixty more days until an-
other holiday comes, and between now: and then
there’s baseball, track, tennis, golf, the old

PROFESSORS ATTEND

(Continued from page 1)
ern frontier have been cut off. This feature of
the German situation is reflected in Hans
Grimm’s novel, “Volk ohne Raum” (People
Without Space), which Professor Kuehnemann
regards as the best German novel of the last
fifteen years.

The speaker felt that the fact that the two-
hundredth birthday of George Washington and
the one-hundredth “deathday” of Germany's
greatest spirit, Goethe, fall in the same year,
1932, about a month apart, should be symbolic
of the friendship that should exist between the
two nations. There is kinship in Washington's
ideals of liberty and the thought in Faust’s
last speech: “Auf freiem Grund mit freiem Volke
stehn.” In a recent visit to Washington the
speaker had been impressed with the beauty
of the city and its splendid memorials. “Lincoln
can meatt no more to any American than he
does to me,” declared Professor Kuehnemann.
Whether we like it or not, America has become
the Rome of today. We must work together
for the prevention of war, for justice between
nations, for unity in the love of God.

The distinctly spiritual note with which Pro-
fessor Kuehnemann closed this address also
characterized the address of the evening in Page
Auditorium: “Goethe and the modern world.”
While the medieval mind was characterized by
its tendency to accept authority unquestioningly,
the modern mind wants “self-determination.”
Goethe's life was a life of intensive self-culture,
directed toward realizing the highest possibili-
ties of which that life was capable, not with
a selfish, but with a social motive. The friend-
ship of Goethe and Schiller was significant in
the life of Goethe, and the trimuvirate Goethe-
Schiller-Kant was a/spiritual peak in Germany’s
life. “Goethe showed the way to the develop-
ment of the personal life, a life of service and
duty, beautiful, and reflecting a developed soul.

standby, show, in which some are taking a six
hours’ credit course, and don’t forget, Concord
and Statesville are still just twenty miles away.

Lincoln Foundation
Desires Mementos

During Summer Foundation Will Dedi-
cate Monument to Great
Emancipator

Dr. Louis A. Warren, director of the Lincoln
Historical Research Foundation, Fort Wayne,
Indiana, asks the Davidsonian to help in locat-
ing any really genuine Lincoln curios in this
section. In the Foundation’s museum and library
and in many other historical institutions all
over the country, he states, there are innumer-
able priceless mementos of the Great Imanci-
pator, yet he feels that treasured away in many
a home or office there must be manuscripts,
newspaper and magazine articles, books and
pamphlets, pictures, medals and other Lincoln
items that are every bit as valuable. He seeks
the aid of this newspaper and its readers in
bringing these to light.

Sometime next summer at Fort Wayne, ac-
cording to Dr. Warren, the Foundation will
dedicate a massive bronze statue of the “Youth-
ful Lincoln,” done by the famous sculptor, Paul
Manship. In connection with this
there will be held a two-day “open house” in
the Foundation’s museum and library. For this
“open house” Dr. Warren is planning a special
exhibit of Lincoln relics collected from individ-
ual owners and not heretofore shown in pub-
lic. Each of the displays will give full credit to
the owner, and perhaps the more important
ones will later be purchased by the Foundation.
Dr. Warren promises that all items submitted
for the special exhibit will be returned. David-
sonians who feel that they have something of
unusual interest should communicate immediate-

dedication

is the desire
world.”

A motivating force in such a lif
to find God in his secrets and hi

With the Goethe Centenary was combined the
annual program of Phi Beta Kappa, and at the
close of the evening a portrait of Goethe: was
presented to the university by Mr. Arthur
Koffler, president of Delta Phi Alpha, national
honorary German society. :

ly with Dr. Louis A. Warren, Lincoln Histor-
ical Research Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana,
or Mr. H. J. Lattimore, Lincoln National Life
Insurance Company, Charlotte, giving full de-
tails concerning the articles in their possession.

In the four years since its establishment, the
Lincoln Historical Research Foundation has be-
the center of Lincoln information in
America. Under Dr. Warren’s direction there
has been-assembled the largest private collection
of literature ever gathered about one man, Bibli-
cal characters excepted.

Dr. Price H. Gwynn
To Make Lectures

Dr. Price H. Gwynn, Jr., of the Department
of Education of Davidson College, has been in-
vited to deliver a series of lectures to the stu-
dent body of Mitchell College. There are to be
four lectures, all of which will be given during
the month of April. In them Dr. Gwynn will
develop the subject, “Marriage and the Family.”
The titles of the lectures will be as follows:

1. Social Changes Affecting Marriage and
the Family.

2. Seeking a Mate.
Factors Conditioning. Successful Married

come

7K

a},
Life.

4. The Christian Ideal of Marriage and the
Family.

Chicago—|IP)—The editorial staff of the
De Paulian, annual of the De Paul Univer-
sity here, have done away with a tradition
by substituting for its campus beauties sec-
tion a section which will include the pictures
and write-ups of five students distinguished
for their achievements in scholarship, ath-
letics, social activities and campus activities.

Brains, the editorial staff explained in
makng the change, are far more important
than beauty, especially for a college student,
and it was felt more appropriate to honor
the brainy students than the pretty co-eds.

The city is the most uncomfortable place in
which to do nothing in particular; you must
either work or be ‘bored.—A.*A. Milne.

“FOOLISHNESS” IS SUBJECT

(Continued from page 1)

people are repelled because nature prompts us
to hold on to our possessions and give enly as
little as possible. Those who see life and un-
derstand truth see the things back of this teach-
ing. They understand the statement, “Whoso
gains his life shall lose it; and whoso loses his
life for my sake shall find it.” The worldly-
minded person cannot understand this and there-
fore calls it pious nonsense.

The foolish doctrine, in spite of ridicule,
serves many people. It helped Simon Peter so
that he was able to stand before the Jews and
accuse them of murdering Christ. It served
Stephen so that he could try to convert the
people. It served Paul so he could preach
“Jesus Christ and Him crucified.” The foolish
doctrine has been the help of many other
apostles who have stood for an ideal. In the
sixteenth century Martin Luther said, “God
helping me, here I stand.’ The martyrs have
believed that it is better to have suffered and
died for an ideal than to live without an ideal,
as a coward.

Washington at Valley Forge was faced with
all manner of difficulties, cold, hunger, poverty,
overwhelming numbers of foes, and no hope of
foreign aid. It would have been easy for him
to have quit and let things remain as they were,
but instead Washington worked and won. He
won, not at Yorktown, but at Valley Forge,
when he was fighting his battles against odds.
In the same way we at college win, not at com-
mencement time, but as we fight our daily moral
battles alone.

There is one question which must be answered
by everyone, Are we willing to be fools for
Jesus’ sake? Are we willing to stand the ridi-
cule of the world? Ridicule is a powerful foe
which makes the bravest man run. Piety! is al-
most despised by many. Are we willing to face
ridicule? The women who were going to
Christ’s tomb had their difficulties. There was
a big stone, a Roman guard, a Roman seal, all
opposing them, yet they had the foolishness of
faith. The stone was rolled away for the women.
They kept on toward the goal.
