R. O. T. C.
INSPECTION
TODAY

‘The Davidsonia

SALENDA

LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

Mm

SPRING
SERVICES
._NEXT WEEK

Vol. XIX

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C, APRIL 20, 1932

No. 26

Annual Spring Services |
Will Be Conducted Here

By Prominent Ministers

Doctors Thompson, Myers, DuBose
and Glasgow Take Part in
Evangelistic Program

SERVICES LAST ONE WEEK

Speakers Are Outstanding Leaders of
Southern Presbyterian Church

In choosing four men to conduet the spring
evangelistic the Y. M.J/G_A.- has
sought to, obtain those whose personality, char-
acter, and achievements would appeal especially
to college men.

services,

They. happily found the men whom they
sought in Dr. W. T. Thompson, Dr. C. F.
Myers, Dr. H. W. DuBose, and Dr. S. M.

Glasgow. The student body is very fortunate
to have these outstanding ministers on the eam
pus at this season.

The services will begin next Sunday evening
at the regular vesper hour. At this time Dr,
W. T. Thompson will inaugurate the evangel+!
istic services with a vesper talk. There will be
no service Monday morning, but on Monday
night Dr, Charles IF. Myers will speak. Dr.
H. Wade DuBose, Fuesday morning and night,
and Dr. S. M. Glasgow, Wednesday morning”
and night, will continue the evangelistic pro-
gram, Dr. Thompson closing the services at!
vespers a Sunday night week.

Dr. Thompson is an old Davidson man and
a frequent visitor to the “hill.” He graduated
in the class of 1905 and received his theological
training at the Union Seminary, After filling
pastorates at Knoxville and Mobile, he returned
to Union Theological Seminary as professor
of religious education, a. position which he has
held for a number of years. He has been of-
fered the pastorate of the Fifth: Avenue “Presby-
terian Church in New York, but he declined.
He will deliver the commencement address at
Princeton’ Theological Seminary and the bac-
calaureate sermon at N. C. C. W. this year.

Dr. Charles F. Myers is pastor of the First |
Presbyterian Church in Greensboro and con-
ducted the spring evangelistic services last year.
He is well known and greatly admired on the
Davidson campus.

Dr. Henry Wade DuBose, pastor of the First
Presbyterian Church in Spartanburg, is a grad-
uate of Vanderbilt University and the Louis-
ville Theological Seminary. He has filled pas-
torates at Mobile, Ala., and Danville, Va., but
has been located in Spartanburg since 1923.

Dr. Samuel M. Glasgow, brother of Mr. Tom
Glasgow, well known to Davidson men, is pas-
tor of the Presbyterian Church in Savannah,
Ga. He has for several years been the leading
spirit of the North Carolina Young People’s
Conference held on the Davidson campus each
June. He contributes the program for Young
People’s Societies in the Christian Observer.

Each of these men is very much. interested
in young men and is noted for power to reach
them.

|
|
|

Pan-Hellenic Council
Members Are Named

The Pan-Hellenic Council for the scholastic
year 1932-1933 was recently chosen by the ten
national Greek letter fraternities of the college,
one man being chosen by each fraternity. The
officers of the new council have not as yet
been chosen, but the election will probably take
place this week.

The president of the council for the past
year was Allen H. Whitehead, of Wilmington,
and FE, D. Kuykendall, of Greensboro, was sec-
retary and treasurer. The organization was es-
tablished on the campus for the purpose of
supervising and chaperoning the Davidson SO-
cial activities on and off the campus. This year,
under their supervision, a large number of en-
tertainments have been put on in Charlotte, and
it is hoped that the new council will carry on
the excellent work of the retiring members.

* The newly elected men and their fraternities
are: Fréd L. Smyre, of Gastonia, Beta Theta
Pi; William F. Mulliss, of Martinsburg, W.
Va., Pi Kappa Alpha; D. Meade Bernard, Jr.,
of Jacksonville, Fla., Kappa Alpha; Alex G..
Little, of Valdosta, Ga., Sigma Alpha Epsilon; |
Fred B. Fleagle, of Davidson, Kappa Sigma; |
Robert H. Alderman, of Florence, S. C., Pi
Kappa Phi; W. Allen Mebane, of Burlington,
Phi Gamma Delta; George C. Neal, of Ruffin,
Theta Upsilon Omega; John G. O’Keeke, of
Bluefield, W. Va., Phi. Delta Theta, and J. W.
(Continued on page 6)

| Winston-Salem,

| Means and Elizabeth O'Dell, of Concord; Miss

Isabell Sims, Spartanburg, S. C.; Miss Dor-
}othy Sellars, Greensboro, N. C.; Miss Sue

| is a member of the Pi Kappa Phi social fra-

Fraternities Stage
Spring Houseparty

The spring house party, featured by the an-
nual Bowery Ball, proved to be a big success
and furnished lively amusement for the campus
on the 15th and 16th. Budding spring brought
forth one of its most beautiful days to welcome
comely girls who made the situation perfect
The music, furnished by KE. B. Robinson and
His North Carolinians (formerly Davidson's
Sunnyland Serenaders), allowed the high spirits
of none to decline until everything had come to
a satisfactory close. All the entertainments were
sponsored by the Pan-Helleniec Council.

The opening entertainment of the series was
Friday night, lasting from 10 till 2, at the ball-
of Hotel Charlotte. This was the only
one of the set which was formal. Surroundings

room

of blaek and white panels were most appropri |
ate for this affair. intermission a
feature presented the
3urkehimer School of Dancing. No more need
be said of them other than they reached their
height of pep and rhythm during the afternoon
entertainment and later soiree.

The Bowery Ball, lasting from 9 till 12 Sat-
urday night at the Charlotte Armory, afforded
unusual amusement and pleasure.

Previous to

few dances were hy

Beside hay
ing aglarger attendance than is usually recorded

at this feature entertainment, the spirit of the
affair was enthusiastically entered into, and it
was made a gala oceasion, Among the costumes
all nationalities and walks of life were repre
sented, Everything froma grass-skirted damsel
to a flashing Russian maiden was present. The |
bowery motif, of course, was adhered to by the
majority of the crowd.

The following list contains the names of the
girls up on the house parties :

Phi Gamma Delta: Miss Margaret Gorrell,
N. C.; Mtss Mary Lib Cun
ningham, Greensboro, N. C.; Miss Marie Leon-
ard, New York City; Mary

Misses Louise

Burr, Blacksburg, Va.

Kappa Alpha: Miss Isabelle Pollock, Blue
field, W. Va.; Miss Elizabeth Gilmour, Wéil-
mington, N. C.; Miss Elizabeth Lewis, Chester,
S. C.; Miss Heiston Scott, Davidson, N. C.;
Miss Agnes Vaughter, Bluefield, W. Va.; Miss
Cynthia Barnes, Anderson, S. C.; Miss Mary

D. Marion, Charlotte, N. C.; Miss Harriette
Cobb, Durham, N. C.

Pi Kappa Alpha: Miss Susan Gregory,
Greensboro, N. C.; Miss Elizabeth Morton,

Charleston, W. Va.; Miss Helen Dodge, Doug-
laston, LL. 1.; Miss Mable Wilkie, Charlotte,
N. C.; Caroline Fuller, Durham, N. C.; Miss
“Pick” Welton, Durham, N. C.; Miss Virginia
Knee, Charlotte, N. C.; Miss Sallie Pat Kafer,

(Continued on page 6)

Managing Editors of
Paper Are Appointed

Casali, Clardy, Schenck, Thompson and
Williams Selected for Posts

The managing editors for next year’s David-
Odi
Casali, sports editor, and Lyman Clardy, Alex
Schenck, W. M. Thompson and Jack Williams,
Jr., managing editors.. These men are all mem-

sonian staff have been selected. They are:

bers of the Reporters’ Club, and that great con-
fidence is placed in them is shown by the fact
that to receive any one of these coveted posi-
tions a man must be elected by the unanimous
yote of the retiring managing editors. The re-
tiring editors are FE. O. Guerrant, D. D. Mc-
Bryde, R. 1. McCallie, C. F. Myers and B. B.
Sugg.

Casali is exceptionally well suited to be ath
letie editor, having made his numeral last year
in football, wrestling and baseball. He is from
Welch, W. Va., and is a member of the Sigma
Phi Epsilon social fraternity.

Schenck is a member of the Beaver Club and
belongs to the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social
fraternity. He earned a numeral in tennis last
year. His home is in Charlotte.

Clardy is a member of the Beaver Club and
the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. He is
from Talladega, Ala.

Thompson also. belongs to the Beaver Club.
Last year he made his numeral in football. He
is from Richmond, Va., and is a member of the
Kappa Sigma social fraternity.

Williams is a Sophomore track manager. He

ternity and is from Waycross, Ga.
From these five men the editor of the David-

sonian to succeed Ed Guerrant will be chosen.

Successful Schedule Is | (Dr. Smith to Speak
Completed By Debaters At O.D.K. Initiation

Three Teams Have Five Victories, One Dr. Henry Louis Smith, former president of
Defeat and Three Non- Davidson College from 1901 to 1912, and now
Hastiions president-emeritus of W ashington and Lee Uni-

versity, is to be the principal speaker at the
annual Omicron Delta Kappa public initiation
exercises to be held here on May 9 The newly
lelected members

The ‘Davidson College debating are |

having one of the most successful years in his-

teams

will be privately initiated at
7 o'clock, The address of the evening will fol-
low that, after which Dr. Smith and the new

members will be honored with a banquet. The

tory. Out of the nine debates in which they
have participated, they have won five, lost one,
and have three non-decisions. There are three
teams, the first being composed of Jack Me-

ay % new members are to be selected from the pres
Kinnon and Bill

Rule, the second of Ed Kuy
kendall and Pete Knox, and the third made up
of Powell and Leiland MeWeithan,

The two outstanding accomplishments of the

ent Senior class and the rising Junior class.
Dr. Smith was graduated from Davidson in

Riley pre
f I88l. While a student here he won several med

; i ‘ .. als in mathematies, Greek, and lnelish, and
season are the two vietories over Bueknell Uni ; } ; eee
; : ‘ . ro Was a representative of his society. Dr. Smith
versity at Lewisburg, Pa., and Emory Uni- eee] 11 ‘ ayes | \
‘ ‘ ines eft here and beeame president of Selma Aca
versity at Atlanta, Ga, Bucknell has had a very ees : : :

demy for five years before taking graduate work
at the University of Virginia in 1886. In 1887
he came to Davidson as a professor of physics
nd which he took his
M.A. degree in I888 and Ph.D. degree in 1890
from the University of 1906 the
North

extensive schedule, sending teams throughout
the Middle West throughout the South.

Out of the fifteen or twenty debates they have

and

exeepl for periods in

taken part in they have suffered only two losses,

both of these being to Davidson. The victory

3 ; ; R Virginia. In
eyer Emery was the first in ten years. For, the ;

University of Carolina couferred

‘ i upon
last three years) Fimory has been Southern aa ‘ ay
Z ‘ ; Dr. Smith the honorary degree of doetor of
champion, and this year’s team was also un 3 :
oer : ; ‘ ; laws. Tle is a well known lecturer, and was at |
usually strong. This vietory is one of which : $ ss
; ; ; one time guest of the British government and
the debating team is quite proud, and places its 7 peaaes |
' ; Rah the Wing of England, when he presented
among the outstanding teams of the South, ; ; Barve :
ie ; ; Washington statue to the lnélish people for
The question which was considered in all thy : as ROA
ae ‘ 5 ; the State of Virginia,
debates was, “Resolved, That the Federal Coy Genie ; F
i : } ; ; Dr. Smith is a charter member of the Alpha
ermment Should Enact Legislation Providing for

chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa at) Washing
ton and Lee and has Jong sinee been publiels
interested in O, D. K. work,

the Centralized Control of
held at
Jack MeKinnon and Bill Rule up

Industry.” The first |

debate Wwas Davidson with Buelnell
University : 5 ; :
His lectures are of philosophic, of scientitic,

held the affirmative, winning 3 to 0 Nay, ;
Dr. Smith is

This same : ;
and of educational nature

: i ‘oative. envare ean hys a pio
senUnE UpOtlg aut UE BENG: engaged Maryville neer leader for prohibition. During the lite
College, at Maryville, Tenn, and the debate was | yy. pan :

ent ; World War he made a most valuable contri
declared a non-decision one. At Southwestern |.) ae ; ;
pay ; : ; ; e bution to the War Department in combatting
University, in] Memphis, Rule and) Melinnon, |

the enemy,

Dr. Smith is in much demand as a speaker
and members of the local chapter feel it) an
| honor in securing, him as their guest-speaker.
|

Student Body Picks
_ Popeas “Yow!” Head

Succeeds Vareen M. Bell as Head of
Davidson’s Humorous Magazine

debating for the negative, won easily, 3 to 0.
The debate with the University of Tennessee |
was a non-decision, Davidson debating on the
negative side. The second team, composed of
fed Kuykendall and Pete Knox, defeated Bir-
mingham-Southern at) Birmingham, Ala., win
At the University Florida the
judges were unable to decide the victors, Kuy-
kendall.and Knox then conquered Emory Uni-
versity at Atlanta after a close decision, 2-1.
The negative was upheld by Davidson in these |

ning, 3-0.

of

three debates. The third team, of Riley Powell | In the annual clection for the editorship of
and Leiland MeKeithan, lost to the University! the Yow! for the coming year, held last: Tues-
of Richmond, 3-0. Powell and MeKeithan up- |
held the affirmative. At Lewisburg, Pa. Me-
Kithan and Powell won over Bueknell by an
audience decision.

The The new editor is from Talladega, Ala., ancl
of Seniors, with the exception of McKeithan. | is a member of Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity

day, April 12, Reeves Pope was chosen to fill
the position to be vacated by Vereen
Bell. Pope and Woody Calligan were the two
}nominees for the position.

soon

debating teams are composed entirely
All are seasoned and experienced men. The reé- | His extra-curricula honors and activities are:
ord they haye made so far is probably the best | memberships in Delta Pi Kappa, the Red and
record in the Southern intercollegiate dehating | Black Masquers, and the college orchestra.

| Calligan’s home is in Wadesboro, N. C., anc
pionship. The Dixie Debating League, which | he, too, is a member of Pi Kappa Phi. social

circles, and they may claim the Southern cham

awards the championship and a silver cup to) fraternity. His extra-curricula activities are
the winner, has recently become defunet. Da- | the following: memberships in Delta Pi Kappa,
vidson would undoubtedly be rated the favorite.) ta Sigma Phi, Delta Phi Alpha, the Glee

if this organization continued to function.

Club, and the college orchestra.
Debating at

Last yearemarked the birth of the Yow, the
offspring of a slowly dying Chameleon, an en-

Davidson is in the hands of the
Forensic Couneil, which is composed this year
of Bill Rule, president; Hd Kuykendall, vice
Pete secretary and debate
manager, and Riley Powell, treasurer. At a re-

|tirely serious magazine. Contrary to the belief

president ; Knox,

of many, the Yow! is not humorous in its en

tirety, although the greater part is devoted to

cent meeting of the council, the following offi- the presentation of humor, leaving about a
cers have been elected for the coming year: | fourth for the above-mentioned serious matter.
Leiland MecKeithan, president; Jack Williams, When it Was seen that the Chameleon could

(Continued on page 5) not survive much longer, several heads got to

gether and as a result we now have the Yowl.
| Perhaps the head that featured mostly among
‘those that suggested the idea was that of Cros-
well Ragin, the first editor.

Student Body Banquet

.)
The date of Thursday, April 28, has |,

The next and last issue of this year will ap
been set for the annual student body

pear about the first of next month and = trom
banquet, which is simultaneous with | then on the new editor will have complete
the beginning of the new regime of | | charge.

officers for the 1932-1933 session. The
election of next year’s officers for all
the organizations has been in progress

Davidson Society Is
| Guest at Charlotte

A group of representative members of the

for the past several weeks.

The installation of the new officers

will take place in the auditorium of ||
Chambers Building, the ceremony be- Eumenean Literary Society were guests of the
ginning at 6 p. m. After the inaugura- | QOueens-Chicora Literary Club on Tuesday eve
tion of the néw officers, the student
body will go into the banquet hall
where supper will be served. It

planned, as is customary, to have all

ining. Arrangements for the meeting were mad
Calvin) Kuykendall of the class
|Gaither Jenkins, president of the Eumenean
| Society, presided. Roger Enloe, Bill Matthews,
fof the Sophomore class; Henry McFadyen, and
;Charles Moore made interesting talks before
{the Queens-Chicora Club. Calvin Kuykendall
was the literary critic of the evening. The
speakers were accorded a most cordial recep-
tion, and it is hoped that it will be possible to
have the Queens-Chicora Club as the guest of
the Davidson organization at an early date.

| by Senior

the boarding houses contribute some
food and they will not serve supper
that night. It is important that every
man be present to start the new offi-
cers off in the proper manner and to
let them know that the entire student
body is back of them.

Te

R. L. McCallie Is Chosen
| New Editor and Chief of
Next “Quips and Cranks”

Popular Junior Selected by Students
Over Three Other Men on
First Ballot

TO SUCCEED E. Cc. DWELLE

Annual Expected to Appear About
Second Week in May

Bob MeCallie, of Chattanooga, Tenn., has
heen elected by the members of the class of
1933 on the first ballot as editor-in-chief of

Quips and Cranks, Davidson's annual, for the
year 1932-33, McCallies Was elected over C. F.
Bettis, W. A. “LL. McKeithan, and D. M. Mc-
TEN--DAVIDSONIAN
Connell, all three of these
on the first ballot.
MeCalhie of this

year’s Quips and Cranks, and began work on

men being eliminated

Was photographic editor

the anual his Sophomore year. During his
Preshinan year his ability was recognized by
the fact that he was celected to join the Re-
{porters’ Club.

Hle is not only outstanding in the literary

field, but also athletically, He is a member of
Kappa Alpha social fraternity, and also of the
SDee Cliente
Freshman vear,
letter in that
pates in the hurdles,

his numeral in track his
then has made

In track MeCallic

made

and. since his

sport partici
. Besides this, McCallie was managing editor of *
the Davidsonian this past year, served on the
PNET WY bed Cob (Coriehvoll, 2M
on the Student Council

The new — editor-in-chiet
Dwelle, Jr. of Charlotte, N.
feditor of Quips and Cranks this past year.

Cabinet, and also

succeeds FE. C.

Coowho has been

The annual is expected to appear about the

second week in’ May, This year’s annual is ex-
pected to be a very colorful book, with a great

many originalities in color schemes and de-

signs. Business manager is named by the Pub-

lications Board. Bob Gorrell was business man-
ager of this year's annual.

McBryde Is Elected
_ President of I. R. C.

At a mecting of the International Relations
Club last Wednesday night, Duncan McBryde
was elected president for the ensuing year; Al
Grant, vice-president, and Lyman HH. Clardy,
The retiring

secretary and treasurer, officers

are Grier Martin, president; and I. O. Guer-
rant, secretary and treasurer,
The meeting was called to order by Presi-

jdent Martin and a report of the papers written
for membership i the club was given. The
{subjects of the papers were varied, but all had

Ito do with questions of international

impor-
tance. A few of the topics were: The Von
Hindenburg lection; Hoover's Moratorium

Plan; and the Sino-Japanese Controversy, At

the conclusion of these reports the retiring
president gave a short tilk on the IR. C,
Convention held in’ Winter Park, Fla., some

tine ago, to which the club Jere at Davidson

sont delegates.

The new men that were initiated” last
WV dix sday night were: L. H. Clardy, Talla-
dega, Ala.; A. H, Grant, Mebane, N. C.; Avory
Patton, Greenville. S. C.; J. S. Mackorell,
York, 5; Gt Gels, Moore, Charlotte;oN; Gs
C. M. Norfleet, Winston-Salem, N. C.; R. C.
Morrow, Mexicq; J. FE. Lake, Atlanta, Ga.;

Ik. A. Haneock, Bluefield, W. Va.

Sigma Upsilon Bids
Five New Members

It has been announced that Sigma Upsilon,
honorary literary fraternity, has issued bids to
five new men, four Juniors and one Sophomore.

They are: W. A, Flinn, AtInata, Ga.; D. W.
Hollingsworth, Florence, Ala; A. G. Little,
Valdosta, Ga.; W. F. Mulliss, Martinsburg,

W. Va, and C. L, Brown, Concord, N. C. These
men will be initiated Wednesday, April 27, at
rote. Gy

Sigma Upsilon remains, since its establish-

Kk. Brown's home.

ment in 1914, among the most active of all aca-

demic societies at Davidson. The — fraternity,
founded at Sewanee College in 1906, has about
thirty chapters, distributed at various prom-

inent colleges in the country, of which this is
‘the Blue Pencil Chapter. It extends bids to
\those who have distinguished themselves in lit-
| erary fields both by interest and ability, and is

coveted greatly by students in these branches.
