JUNIOR SPEAKING
MARCH 18-19

The Davidso

Mia NM,

=

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

DAVIDSON DE-
BATERS DEFEAT
BUCKNELL

Vol. XIX

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 9

, 1932

No. 21

Professor C. M. Heck to
Lecture Here March 22
On Interesting Subject

Head of Physics Department of North
Carolina State College Will |
Speak Here |

NEW APPARATUS IN LAB |

Hayes of ’29 Gives Engine Lathe to|
Physics Department |

Under the auspices of the General Lecture |
Committee of Davidson College, Prof. C. M. |
Heck, head of the Department of Physics of |
North Carolina State College, will speak here
in Chambers Auditorium on Tuesday, March |
22, at 7:30 o'clock on the subject of “Explor- |
ing the Universe.” The committee has’ been |
very fortunate in securing some interesting lec- |
turers for the students of Davidson this year, |
and Professor Heck is no exception. Because
his talk will be non-technical, it will be of un- |
usual interest to all. He will illustrate it in|
a very unusual and entertaining way.

Professor Heck is noted throughout the state |

for the outstanding work which he has done |
in encouraging the teaching of physics in high |
schools. Because of his interest and enthusiasm, |
many secondary schools have been able to offer |
courses which otherwise they could not have |
done. He has also held several offices in the |
State Academy of Science, and he has done |
much to promote its growth. During recent |
years Professor Heck has been doing research |
work in the field of radio. Professor Heck |
got his bachelor of arts degree from Wake For- |
est College. Later he did graduate work in hoth |
America and Germany.
Professor Heck is a competent as well as)
an excellent speaker. He is in great demand |
in many parts of the state. It is with gr vat |
pleasure that the students, as well as the faculty, |
anticipate this lecture. Drs. Arbuckle and Doug: |
las, who have known Professor Heck for quite
a while, will verify the above statements con-
cerning Professor Heck’s traits as a speaker,

Recently R. Hayes gave a much-needed piece
of apparatus to the Department of Physics of
Davidson College. It is an engine lathe. Mr.
Hayes is an alumnus of Davidson, having grad-

uated with the class of 1929. On Jast Friday |

he and his father were here to inspect the parts
and to attend to certain other matters. Accord-
ing to Professor Fulcher, this addition will be
very useful, because for a long while it has
heen a prominent need of the department. At
present the machine is not completely -instadled ;

however, it will be ready for use in a very short |

. Thies |

while. Professors Mebane and Oscar J

(Continued on page 6)

“Quips and Cranks” Will
Be Issued Early in May
Progress Has Been Greatly Hindered

by Financial Difficulties in
Business World

In the early part of May, earlier than last |

year, the Annual will appear. Ouips and Cranks
came out around the 25th in 1931, but this year

it will be off the press at an earlier date, de-|
spite the many financial difficulties encountered |
in its making. These were traceable to the gen- |
eral depression in the business world, which |

has affected the advertising activities of com-

panies greatly, and thus has made many and |

large obstacles for the business staff.

The Annual has now progressed very nearly |

. sad |

to completion. The greater part of the copy |
will go to the printer this week, and practically |

all the pictures taken during the fall and more
recently, have gone to the engraver. This year’s
photographers were Wootten-Moulton of Chapel
Hill, who have been photographers for the past
seven years for the Vackety-Yack, U. N. C.
year book. The photographer will return for
the last time just before the Easter holidays
to take the last pictures of the baseball, track,
tennis and golf teams. Additional prints of pic-
tures taken for the Annual may still be had,

it was stated; also, if extra copies, or copies

with the student’s name in gilt, or copies with

a ribbon are desired, they. must be ordered |

shortly from Bob Gorrell, business manager,
because orders are to be filed very soon.

The 1932 Quips and Cranks is to have as its
theme, William Lee Davidson, general in the
Revolutionary War, killed at the battle of Cow-
an’s Ford, and after whom the college was
named, and the various features of the volume
will be -built around him.

| safety, domestic tranquillity, feelings, ete., it is

lattain the good things in life, which they pos-

Vesper Address Is__
Given By Dr. Brown

The weekly vesper service, sponsored by the
Davidson College Young Men’s Christian As-
sociation, was, as usual, held in the Chambers
Auditorium last Sunday evening at 6 o'clock.’
A good crowd turned out, and was privileged
to hear Dr. C. K. Brown, of the Davidson fac-
ulty, speak. Dr. Brown was called on at the
last minute to replace the scheduled speaker,
Dr. Currie, who was called suddenly out of
town, and. in spite of this fact, Dr. Brown. gave
a most interesting and beneficial talk.

He. took as his text, “Am I My Brother's
Keeper?” This is a thought that comes up daily
to every student in Davidson College, and an
answer to this question was indeed timely. Dr.
Brown gave out the idea that each man in the
college is to a large extent his brother's keeper,
in that if the boys of the school were abso-

Student Body Elections

Elections for the officers of the Stu-
dent Body will begin next Tuesday,
March 15. A nominating committee is
selected from members of the Student
Council. This committee selects four
nominees for president and four for
the two vice-presidents, and four for

: secretary and treasurer. The floor will

then be open for further nominations.
As planned now, this will begin on
March 15.

Bucknell Conquered By |

lutely insensible to the other's feelings, and '
tastes, the entire student body would live in| Representatives of the
discord.

The speaker gave a list of several things in
which it was positively essential that we should
be our brother’s keeper. In the matter of his

Knox and Kuykendall Hold a No-De-
cision Meet at Birmingham-

imperative that the men of this college look
I Southern

out for their fellow students, and see that they
sibly could not attain without the help of their FIRST BUCKNELL MEET
comrades.

Moffatt McConnell of the Junior class pre-
sided at the meeting, and introduced the speaker.
Prayers were offered by Bob McCallie and |
Dick Whitfield. — H. MeWKinnon and= William Rule, IIT,

won, by unanimous. decision, a debate staged in
Loan Fund Will Be

| Chambers Auditorium last Monday night at
A |
Started By Seniors

McKinnon and Rule Uphold Affirma-
tive in Contest Here

Jack

| 7:30, over the representatives of the team from
Bucknell University, Chas. R. Bidelspacher and
Myre Ginsberg, the former from, Williamsport,
Pa., and the latter from Newark, N. J. The
Decision Is Made in Preference to | subject of this debate was as follows: Resolved,

Trophy Case \“That the Federal Government Should Enact
| Legislation to Provide for Centralized Control

Davidson Debating Team.

| The class of '32 has definitely determined
| that their gift to Davidson will be the establish-
|ment of a loan fund, At a called meeting after
chapel, last Friday, the final vote was takén.
|The Seniors decided tipon a loan fund in pref-

erence to a trophy case, which has been under
|consideration. The appropriateness of this gift

members of the class, it will become more valu-

lable as years pass. The definite amount is not
yet ready to be published, but it will be in
keeping with the sum usually put into a gradu-

fof 1932 Loan Fund.”

The loan fund will be available each year for
members of the Senior class only. The loans
are to be paid back within a few months after
{graduation in order that the maximum amount

be on hand for Seniors each succeeding year.
The recipients of the loans will be designated
by the Faculty Committee on Loan Funds.

Brooke ‘Allen Named

Varsity Cheerleader

At a popular election of the student body
ilast week, Brooke E.
was elected varsity cheerleader for the season
1932-1933, to succeed Ed Kuykendall, of Greens

jand fellow assistant cheerleader, B.
Jr., of Greenville, N. C.

Sruce Suge,

'a larger group of candidates as Junior cheer-
leaders to assist Ed Kuykendall with the cheer-
ing at all major athletic events for this schol-
astic year. Both have done commendable work
along this line and credit is duc ca
other assistant cheerleaders will be selected
next fall to help with the cheering, the same
as this past. year.

ch

Brooke Allen is a Junior this year and a
member of the Phi Gamma Delta social fra-
ternity. Being elected cheerleader is a distinct
honor on the Davidson campus and the holder
of the position is awarded a varsity “D” for
his services.

A questionnaire conducted by the Daily
Princetonian indicated that there are more ab-
stainers among the Freshman class at Prince-
ton University this year than there are drink-
ers. The questionnaire also revealed that a ma-
jority of the 545 Freshmen prefer a Phi Beta
Kappa key to a varsity “P.” About 60 per cent
of the class did not know what it wanted to be
outside of alumni.

ating class gift. It will be known as the “Class

Allen, of Wilmington, |

boro. He won by a majority from his co-worker}

These two, Allen and Sugg, were chosen from |

one. Two}

}of Industry.” The affirmative was upheld by

| Davidson in such that the future de-

jhates of these two representatives should not

ihe at all disappointing.

| But Davidson is not content with merely a

|few debates. There were two more of the rep-
P. S. Knox and Ed Kuykendall,

a way

| resentatives,

is that, through subsequent contributions of | debating at Birmingham-Southern. The debate

| turned out to be a no-decision, These two, Knox
fand Kuykendall, are on a trip that will give
| them two more chances to present the negative
of this same resolution. These matches
be with Florida on Mareh 16 and with
| Emory on March 17. They did, and are at all
| times, to uphold the negative on the same reso
|lution: Resolved: “That the Federal Govern
Should Enact legislation to Provide for
Centralized Control of Industry.” MeKinnon
jand Rule, displaying a reversal of form by tak
| ing the negative, will also make a trip, meet-
jing the respective teams of Southwestern, Mary-
| ville, and the University of Tetinessee. Start
jing March 17, this trip will continue until the
ispring holidays begin, March 24.
| But there is still another launching forth of
| Davidson debaters in the persons of W. A. Me-
| Keithen and Riley Powell, who will meet Buck-
| nell, and latere the University of Richmond.
|The subject of the debate is the same as that
of the others, it always being constant. David-
son will uphold the negative on this trip.
Coming back to the debate last Monday with
3ucknell, it might be mentioned that this is the
first of a series of six debates to be presented

side

| will

| ment

by these representatives.

It will also be noted from the above schedule
*that this debate last Monday was the first and
| last to be given here.

Bowery Ball

The annual Bowery Ball will be held
on the week-end of April 16 and 17,
1932. On Friday night the entertain-
held in the Charlotte
Hotel, and the Saturday afternoon and

ment will be

evening entertainments will be held in
the Charlotte Armory. Saturday night,
however, is regarded as the official
night of the Bowery Ball. Our own
Sunnyland Serenaders will furnish the
music. Each year these entertainments
are looked forward to with great pleas-
ure and enthusiasm by the students.
This year is to be one of the most in-
teresting yet experienced here.

“Y’’ Sends Out Three
Deputations Sunday

|
|
| Last Sunday the ¥. M, C. A. sent out sev-
|eral deputations. They were as follows :

A quartet sang at the First Presbyterian
Church at Concord at the evening service. It
| consisted of Bill Rule, Granger Williams, Le-
land McKeithan and Charlie Norfleet.

At 8:15 m., a group left for the First
Presbyterian Church at Salisbury and remained
\for the entire day, dining and spending the time
lin various homes. Paul Brown spoke to a Sun-
|day School assembly at the morning service.
|The evening conducted by the
!young people of the church and they turned it
lover to the students. Skip” Brown and Charlie
| Moore gave talks, while Dave McLain sang a

| solo for the offertory.
|

a.

service was

The usual two were sent to the Y. M. C. A.
fat Charlotte. Odi Casali spoke to the group
| consisting of children of the ages of 11, 12 and
13, and Sam Wiley to an older group of the
ages of 15, 16, and 17. The “Y" at Charlotte
is undertaking a movement to aid the growth
of these boys mentally, physically, and spirit-
ually. The “Y" itself supplies the first two
through the medium of a reading room and a
gymnasium, But the spiritual aspect is turned
Y. M. C. A’, and every
Sunday two men are sent over to conduct this.

over to the Davidson

This department of the
|deputations to nearby Christian organizations,
ee been functioning very much lately and plans

“Y." the sending of

| for many more of these deputations are being
jimade.
|

Dean Rusk Signally
Honored at Oxford

|

Former Davidson Student Wins Cov-
eted “Half-Blue”

Word has just been received from Oxtord to
the effect that Dean Rusk, Davidson, "31, was
awarded the “half-blue’ in lacrosse for playing
‘for the University Feb
ruary 25th. The “blue” in major sports, such

against Cambridge,

las rowing and football, and the “half-blue” in

lesser sports, correspond to the varsity letter
in America. The distinetion is the more note-

worthy in view of the fact that Dean had never
played lacrosse before going to Oxford, though
iskill in basketball and certain other American
games is of course an asset in a game of speed
and agility like lacrosse. The “blue” is awarded
only the
Cambridge. In the same way, Cambridge awards
the “light
Oxford

for representing University against

blue” only for competition against
that
count for nothing. There is at present only one
lother “blue” in St
lis the second Davidson man to win the coveted
Oxford athletic distinction, Dr
ling won it in boxing.

Irom standpoint, other) games

John’s College. Dean Rusk

Ben Lacy hav-

Speaker For. Siinday
Vespers Is Dr. Boyd

Dr. C. M. Boyd, pastor in Charlotte, will be
the “Y" vespers speaker next Sunday evening,
March 13th.

Dr.
Presbyterian Chureli of Tuscaloosa, Ala.

Soyd was for twelve years pastor of the
where
the
and

contact with
of Alabama
He

paratively young man and has done outstand

active work and
the

the young people of the state

he was in

students of University
is a com-

ing work with the young people of the Uni
He of Columbia
Decatur, until

versity. trustee Sem-

Ga.,

Was a

inary at his appointment

to Charlotte.
| While in Davidson he will be? the guest of
| Dr. Moffett, pastor of the Davidson College

| Church, and has been invited to preach at the
{Sunday evening service there. A most  inter-
lesting and inspiring program is expected at
| these vespers.
| But change is the immutable law. The inno-
|vations of one age become the familiar prac-
tices of the next. Revision, remodelling, progress
leverywhere! The inexorable pressure of the
new, the fresh, the original! We may defy, we
may protest, yet the world’ does move and the
directing force of human activity is forward.—
| Nation’s Business.

| ~ :
| Everywhere democracies are shirking facts,
hoping to pay off perils with platitudes —Win-
ston Churchill.

Three National Honorary
Fraternities Issue Bids
to Twenty College Men

Fraternities Are Delta Phi Alpha,
Gamma Sigma Epsilon, and

Sigma Pi Sigma
TWO WERE FOUNDED HERE

Men Rewarded for Outstanding Quali-
ties in Their Respective Fields

Three of Davidson's honorary fraternities re-
cently announced the issuance of bids to twenty
new who outstanding in the
fields for which the respective fraternities were

men have been
organized, and who have made high scholastic
These Delta Phi
Alpha, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, and Sigma Pi

records, fraternities are:
Sigma. All three are national organizations, and

two of them were founded at Davidson,

Delta Phi Alpha, honorary German fraternity,
has issued bids to six men, This fraternity was
founded at Wofford 1927 for the
purpose of promoting interest in the German
language among students. It now has chapters
in institutions the United States.
Delta Phi Alpha
Fremont, N. C.; F. H.
Holyoke, Mass.; W. M. Thompson,
Richmond, Va.; W. T. Thompson, Richmond,
Va.; J. W. White, Graham, N. C.; J. S. Wil-
son, Charlotte, N.C.

College in

throughout

The men receiving bids to
are?’ W, B,
Scott,

Corbin,

Gamma Sigma Epsilon, chemistry fraternity,
extended bids to eight men who are proficient
in chemistry, and who proved themselves
worthy of membership by their past records and
interest in’ the

Ipsilon was founded at

Gamma
Davidson

keen subject. Sigma
1919, It

now has eight chapters in leading Southern and

Eastern colleges and universities, Those: receiv-
ing bids are: C. M. Wildman, Ojus, Fla.; E.
W. Shackelford, Durham, N. C.; A. G. Little,
Valdosta, Ga.; Odi Casali, Welch, W. Va.;.A
S. Morrow, High Point, 'N. C.; P. F., Brown,

Atlanta, Ga.; R. HH. Baker, Mooresville, N.C
D, S. Currie, Parkton, N. C.

Sigma Pi Sigma, physies fraternity, which
was founded at Davidson. in 1921, has issued

bids to six new men. Since its founding, Sigma
Pi installed chapters
schools in the South and East. This fraternity

Sigma has twenty in

rewards high scholastic achievement and pro-

motes interest in advanced physics. The new

men are: C, H, Reid, Danville, Va.; J. E. Dill,
Buchanan, Va.; EE. 1. Gorham, Lake Charles,
I.a.; Avery Patton, Jr., Greenville, S. C.; A.

G. Little, Valdosta, Ga.;

Seley

Ansley Watson, An-
derson,

Faculty Engage in Many
Meetings and Lectures

Dr. Lingle Addresses Various Groups:
in Different Cities of the Two
Carolinas

President Walter L. Lingle on February 28th
preached two sermons in Columbia, S. C., and
he addressed the Men’s Club of the First Pres-

|
|
|
|
|
|
|

byterian Church of that city om the 29th, He
also delivered a sermon in the Saint Andrews
NG;
While there he also made a special address
at the Church of the Coveriant on “Scotch
attended
of honer a luncheon in the luncheon rooms of
the First Presbyterian Church in New Bern,

Presbyterian Church in *Wilmington,

Covenanters.” Yesterday he as guest

N. C. Dr. Lingle was the principal speaker
of this Davidson College alumni. group. At 4
}o'clock he addressed the Parent-Teachers As-

sociation and ministers of Craven County, He
returned to Wilmington today, where he spoke

to the men of the Presbyterian churches of
that city.
Dr. P. H. Gwynn, professor of education,

spoke last week at the Dilworth Parent-Teacher
Society at its regular monthly meeting in Char-
lotte, N. C. His subject was “Parents Fac-
ing a New World.” “Common. sense is. still
the best policy—even with our own children,”
Dr. Gwynn told the assembled parents. —Dr.
Gwynn praised the work of the schools, espe-
cially the splendid effort they are making to
meet modern problems in child and adolescent
psychology. He concluded his talk saying, “Love
guided by knowledge can go a long way to
make up deficiencies.”

Captain F. M. Cochran will deliver a lecture
on the Philippine Islands tonight at the ninth
meeting of the Charlotte Branch School for
Reserve Officers. Captain Cochran has seryed

j (Continued on page 6)
