THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 7, 1932

ee
SS

N. C. GAMMA CHAPTER
INITIATES ELEVEN MEN

(Continued from page 1)
Washington’s time were the books that were
read when Phi Beta Kappa was founded, in
the times when the causes of the Revolution-
ary War were being advanced.

The first half of his address was centered
around the material contained in two old
Day-Books (personal property of Dr. Wil-
son) of the Virginia Gazette, located in colo-
nial Williamsburg. The shop of this paper
was not only ‘a shop where printed matter
was sold, but also wines and other things
of peculiar interest.

These Day-Books (first of William Hun-
ter and second of Joseph Royle, editors of
Gazette) would not be of so much interest
were it not for the fact that the Virginia
Gazette was the only newspaper and con-
trolled the only printing press in the colony.
Not only did it keep a record of the books
and merchandise bought and sold, but also
a record of the letters sent and received.
This was because the postoffice was included
in the store, and record of the letters and
carriers had to be kept. :

And, upon looking through these, Day-
Books, one can find such names as George
Washington, Thomas Jefferson, William
Byrd, Patrick Henry, and many other fa-
mous men of the time. A record of the
books and wine they bought, the letters they
sent, etc., are preserved in these Books. In
the course of his speech, Dr. Wilson recited
many articles found therein. It can be seen
that many of the varied purchasers had va-
ried interest as regards their literature. One}.
thing of particular interest is that on great
days-when important-things were happen-
ing, business at the printing shop was very
slack and dull.

The second half of his speech was de-
voted to general statements as to the best
sellers of the colonial days. He showed that
many of the classics of today were new
books then and that many books popular at
that time are practically unknown now, time
having proven that they are not as famous
as others. The “sellers” were of quite a few
topics such as games, religion, fiction, hus-
bandry, law, and other contemporary topics
of interest.

Dr. Wilson closed with a picture of the
founders of the country and the founders
of Phi Beta Kappa reading these best sell-
ers on their vacant nights by the aid of
candle light.

After a statement from Dr. Watts regard-
ing the appreciation of the chapter for the
address, the exercise was concluded and the
members of the faculty andthe initiates,
P. F. Brown, Avery Patton, William Mulliss,
D. M. McConnell, and W. E. McNair, of
the student body, and Prof. H. B. Overcash,
Mr, F. L.-Jackson, Dr. E. H. Sloop, Dr. S. T,
McCloy, Dr. J. W. Clark, and Rev. Lavens
Thomas, all alumni of Davidson, along with
the guests, retired to the banquet hall where
the above-mentioned took place.

LECTURE COMMITTEE TO
SPONSOR VISIT OF AUSTRIAN

(Continued from page 1)
Hauptmann, a selection in English from Die
Weber, Hanneles Himmelfahrt or Der arme
Heinrich will be given. Hauptmann, at the
height of his fame, celebrated his seventieth
birthday November 15-of-this year. The cele-
bration took on a national aspect in Ger-
many. In view of the recent death of Arthur
Schnitzler, the great Austrian dramatist and
novelist, a selection from his works will be
given in English, followed by a rendition of
the famous Leutnant Gustl in German, Es-
pecial interest attaches to Schnitzler num-
bers, as Mr. Montor comes from Vienna,
the scene of most of Schnitzler’s plays. The
fact that the Carl Schurz Memorial Founda-
tion of Philadelphia bears more than half
of the expense makes it possible for the Da-
vidson Lecture Committee to include Mr.
Montor in the year’s program of lectures
and other entertainments. Watch further
issues of The Davidsonian for comment on
the numbers Mr. Montor will read.

DR. JAMES L. TRYON, OF
M. I. T.. DELIVERS ADDRESS.

(Continued from page 1)
his mind and continue in his work, but if
one desires to pursue some other field it is
necessary to go back and-begin over.

The speaker then gave a brief idea of
the courses at M. I. T. The three central
and most highly stressed courses are chem-
istry, physics, and mathematics. The school
is strictly what it name implies. “This high-
ly technical institution,” he went on to say,
“has its courses so arranged that when a
student specializes in a particular depart-
ment he also receives a smattering knowl-
edge in each of the other. fields. Dr. Tryon
showed that the first year w@s the same for
all men, and during the second year a ten-
dency toward specialization is noted. This

=is-amplified in the third year and in the last

Ie

ject. Eighteen different courses are given
at M. I. T., and the student must take one
of these. However, he is presented options
in the course itself.

Next Dr. Tryon gave a brief explanation
‘of the growing importance of the science
department. The speaker also explained that
each department has its own dean and fac-
ulty. This system presents a much mire
smoothly run department. There are prac-
tically -600-men-in—the-graduate—school.,Al-
though in a recent year 31 doctor’s degrees
and 189 master’s degrees were conferred,
there were 456 bachelor’s degrees given,
which indicated that the Institute of Tech-
nology is still fundamentally an undergradu-
ate institution.

Dr. Tryon closed with the presentation of
the rather recent feeling that after the de-
pression is over, a man must have a special
and superior training in order to be more
advanced,

DAVIDSON GLEE ‘CLUB
RETURNS FROM TOUR

(Continued from page 1)

they gave an entertainment at Flora Mac-
donald College. Tuesday they traveled to
Aberdeen where they delivered their second
entertainment in the high school auditorium
that night. The Glee Club was accompanied
on this trip by Oliver Beard, a guest solo-
ist, and by Reeves Pope and His Southern-
aires, The Pills Brothers also rendered sev;
eral numbérs which aided in the success of
the entertainments.

The program presented varied forms of
music, beginning with three songs by the
whole Glee Club. The three selections were:
“Sailor’s Chorus,” from “The Flying Dutch-
maa,” by Wagner; “Hymn to the Virgin,”

and “The Scissors Grinder.” Grainger Wil-
liams then sang “Invictus,” by Huhn, and
he was followed by the’ Davidson Male
Quartet who sang “We Meet Again To-
night” and “A Cowboy Song.” Next was a
piano solo, “Waltz in C Sharp Minor,” which
was rendered by Edward McNair. The Glee
Club then gave three more numbers, “Joshua
Fit the Battle of Jericho,” a negro spiritual ;
“Dreamin’ Time,” by Strickland, and “Old
King Cole,” by Forsyth, Oliver Beard, the
guest soloist, thén sang “A Spirit Flower”
and “I Love Life.”

After a short intermission, the Pills Broth-
ers, Geddie Monroe, Bill Northern, and Dave
McLain, rendered several numbers. The
Southernaires then played four popular
pieces, “We Just Couldn't Say Goodbye,”
“By the Waters of Minnetonka,” “Medley of
Old Favorites,” and “I Don’t Care.” The
program concluded with four selections by
the Glee Club and orchestra combined,
“What Shall We Do With a Drunken Sol-
dier,” from Sea Chanty; “In the Luxemburg
Gardens,” by Manning-Nash; “I. Love a Pa-
rade,” by Arlen, and last, “O Davidson,” by
Shields.

DOZEN DAVIDSON SENIORS
AND ALUMNI CANDIDATES

(Continued from page 1)

is probably due to-the fact that the colleges
have been-more strict in their selection.

After each of the six states in our group
has selected its two candidates, the district
committee will appoint four out of the twelve
| State candidates. As there are eight districts,
the-total number of American Rhodes Schol-
ars appointed each year is thirty-two, with
: the occasional additional appointment of an
, especially promising candidate “at large.”

Among Davidson men who serve on com-
mittees of selection are Dr. B. R. Lacy in
Virginia, Dr. McDowell Richards in Georgia
and Dr. G. R. Vowles in North Carolina.

R. JACKSON ELECTED
: TO IMPORTANT OFFICE

(Continued from page 1)

speeches given on the subject of student
aid. The controller of the University .of
New Hampshire represented the targer uni-
versities. The treasurer of Smith’s College
spoke, on student aid in women’s institu-
tions. Mr. Jackson spoke, dealing with the
situation of student aid in the colleges of the
East. His theme dealt-mostly—in_statistics |
telling the number of applications made for
assistance, the number of scholarships of-
fered, the source of money given, and other
interesting facts concerning student aid. “As
an introduction to his talk he gave a short
history of student aid. At first it was car-
ried on by an organization of the students
themselves, then it was dropped altogether
for a good while, and now, of course, the
school handles it.

While in Richmond the members of the
delegation were guests of the city of Rich-
mond and the University of Richmond. They
were taken on a number of sightseeing trips
to the historical spots in the colorful old
town. Saturday afternoon they went to
Williamsburg where they were guests of
William and Mary College. There they had

the opportunity of learning something of the
restoration being carried on there by John
D. Rockefeller.

Next year the association will be the guests
of the Rochester University at Rochester,
New York.

RIFLE TEAM MEETING HELD
IN PREPARATION FOR PRACTICE

(Continued from page 1)
arranged. As yet no shooting has been done,
but the squad will start actual practice on
Wednesday. The squad has fost some good
marksmen, but about eight men out of the
fifteen "on the-team—last—year—are..with_.us
again this year.

PROF. ENGLISH’ BAGBY
WILL SPEAK FRIDAY

(Continued from page 1)
Hopkins. Before accepting his present posi-
tion at the university he taught at Yale. In
the summer he is the professor of Psychol-
ogy at Columbia University. He is a mem-
ber of the American Association of Univer-
sity Professors.

California produces vast quantities of min-
erals. Other products are grapes and let-
ters from Hollywood asking the old folks
for fare home.—W. P. Rowley.

HIGH CLASS Work at ECONOMICAL PRICES

MARTIN BROTHERS SHOE SHOP >

66

“No wonder Chesterfield smokers are so en-
thusiastic.”

CHESTERFIELD RADIO PROGRAM
Every night except Sunday, Columbia

Coast-to-Coast Network.

bure leling M E, Mheyre Lider’:

“T'VERYWHERE I go, I have to listen to the
same thing. “Try Chesterfields. Honestly,
they are milder, and you simply must try them!’

“Me ... . try Chesterfields! Why, I haven’t

smoked anything else. That’s how important
mildness and better taste are to me!

year the student is concentrating on one sub-

© 1932, Liccerr & Mygrs Tosacco Co.

99

THEY’RE MILDER —

THEY TASTE BETTER

