THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 5, 1932

WOFFORD TERRIERS ‘|
BATTLE WILDCATS
FRIDAY

THE SPORTS PARADE

VARSITY TENNIS
TOURNAMENT
NEARS FINALS

|

‘
|
|
|
|
|
|

|Favorites Lead Way in
Fall Tennis Tournament

| Lafferty Enters Finals
Over Myers; Scott Defeats

The annual Davidson College tennis tour-

nament, both in the upperclassmen and
Freshmen divisions, has advanced a good
deal since the last issue of this paper. The

former lacks one

Star Performer

by Victory

Brown in Upset

match of going into the

Frazier Sets Record

In Frosh Cake Race

The annual Davidson Cakes R:z
Freshmen was held last
at 4:30 o'clock,
proximately eighty-five
out to test themselves

to win for themselves one

over
contestants
at the gruel,
of the
prizes offered.
the
drug stores,

fered by various boarding hou

the barber shops, and

Ace

se,

for

Thursday afternoon
a 17 mile cour

Ap-

turned
hoping

ses,

the

delicious
Twenty-one prizes were of-

the
pic-

but lost the ball when a pass went in-
complete. Pearce then kicked out of |
danger and the Wildcats immediately |
started a drive which finally'resulted in

By Apointment Only
Telephone Davidson No. 2005
Location: 2 Miles West of Mt. Mourne,-N. C.

a score,

If the Wildcats improve as—much this!
week as they did last, then Wofford College |
is in for a lacing. In our estimation, the
Wildcats should defeat the South Carolinians |

any two touchdowns. They will have to bat-
tle to defeat the Terriers, but we have con-

Kidence in our Wildeats and rule them the
favorites. |

It leaiiers as though Monk ana Tex keys

carried that fighting “Wildcat Spirit” to
V. P. I. with them, from that team’s 7-6
victory over Georgia Saturday. It was
considered an upset for V. P. I. to de-

== =

“DRUGS”

“SODAS”

Make Our Store Your Store
Student Supplies

WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.

USES

“SUNDRIES”

ee (Qa

|

|

|

|

|

=
=)

.

feat a team which had smothered them
44-0 last year, but Davidson’s former
coaches long held the reputation of pro-
ducing teams which could upset the dope
any old time.

An elimination tournament in campus foot-
ball will be started next week among the
social fraternities on the hill. The differ-|
ent fraternity captains will assemble one day
this week to snake the drawings.

Rhodes Scholarships

Alumni and students desiring to try
out for the Rhodes Scholarships are
again reminded to give written notice
to Dr. Vowles on or before Saturday,
October 8, indicating in each ‘case the
state in which the candidate wishes to
appear.

Every year quite a number of stu-
dents from the Senior class try out for
this highly desired and much coveted
honor. All of those who are eligible
are urged to give their notice as soon
as it is possible.

®

Stk ot Pao Ma

o EW

Pooccce4

© ee Theatre

fa A

WEDNESDAY '

“TWO AGAINST THE WORLD”
CONSTANCE BENNETT

THURSDAY

“THE CRASH”
RUTH CHATTERTON

FRIDAY

“HOLD ’EM JAIL” __
ROBERT WOOLSEY—BERT WHEELER

SATURDAY

“THE NIGHT OF JUNE 13TH”

CLIVE BROOK

MONDAY

“LIFE BEGINS”
LORETTA YOUNG

TUESDAY

“AGE md as

zier as he breezed by in the excellent time
of 9:35.5 minutes, setting a new record on
the course. This easily overshadowed the
record which Rufus Morrow set in 1930.
Frazier is from Oxford Orphanage, Oxford.
N. C., and last year he set the state record
in the mile, which was 4:39 seconds over our
own record. Frazier also won the half-mile
and he will probably be one of the best track
men in the state this year.

Bill Murchant came in second, also break-
Mur-

4 ,
ing the school record by 15 seconds.

“Parson” Peabody

At

Ivey’s
Davidson

Shop

“Cal” Kuykendall, '32, Manager

“Goof” Clark
Student Representatives

semi-final’ cantoy and the latter is now in ture show of Davidson. : chant won track honors at Episcopal High
the—second round: The first place was copped by Earle Fra-| School last year and he, too, shows much
| A series of startling upsets. marked by poe promise for the track squad. The others
a ee Ree WNeeectae te 0-2) Marvin defeated Griffin, 6-3, 2-6, 8.6;]/CiNe iw in the following ager ae
| 1932 tourney. Foremost among these was Dudley defeated Barnette, 87 -5; Gold de-| Young, ets Foy, MA 2) ens Noten ie a
| : Ng 1 sexes ' 5 feated Dillard, 6-2, 6-3 Dees, Harlan, Smith, Furnesse, Fraley,
| the defeat by’ Francis Scott of that titan of : : : Woodward, Bulwinkle, Marvin, Lewis, Gold,
j the courts, eee rans who last year as j Dillard, and Stuart.
captain of the Freshman team went through
the season without losing a match. It wae. Summary
Davidson's Wildcats Showed a great deal hard fought struggle from beginning to a Outcomes of Davidson’s
of. jiiproverent. in. thee gate “Saturday end, Scott finally proving himself to be the W. & L..DAVIDSON GAME 1932 O t
against Washington and Lee over their play steadier, and pulling out the mateh in two W. & L. David. pponents
in.the Duke game 'a week ago, and as a re-) (euced sets, 11-9, 7-5 | om el Yards: from scrimimuge. 68 91
sult emerged on the long end of a 7-0 score) The progress in the tournament for the CHARLEY PEARCE -HALFQAEK Oey iba is § a DUKE 44, V. Aa ‘i bia
for their first victory of the season. It was) Freshmen is not progressing with the rapid=) Net yarda @ from seein, 92 59 SLERRIGK (a, Gee i “Te “32
by a similar score that ‘the Wildcats defeated ity that had been anticipated, but the lack | Charles Pearce; 160-pound Wildcat Pisses seit ted 10 10 peal ASUSE Uh Seores Lhe
the Generals last fall at Lexington. of alacrity is made up for partially by the) halfback who was selected on the As- Pessci capil Cae 0 4 N. C. STATE 9, Burdette ss
———— pelass-of the field. Eighteen men have signed sociated Press’ All-State team last fall, Peis ineorplated ae 7 5 NORTH CHEST. ile. sella 2
The Washington and Lee-Davidson up to play in these matches, and outstanding! continued to show all-state calibre here Pisin... % 3 i WAKE FORES , idle.
game uncovered another Sophomore star | @mong them are Billy Marvin, who bears | Saturday when he scored Davidson's Vards:pained op Skid. 0 69 CITADEL, aay yh itals.)
“for the Wildcats in the person of George _ quite a reputation north of the Mason-Dixon; only touchdown against Washington and Net yardage gained _92 128 (Opponents are denoted by capitals.
Wingfield. Although Wingfield gave line in prep net circles, and Carlyle Lewis, | Lee Pearce’s left-footed punts kept the Pichon é $
Davidson her only first down in the § Who gained quite some prominence as the ball in the visitors’ territory through- Avatage igupihcpunts....87 38 o
Duke game a week ago, his playing did | "Unner-up in the South Atlantic Junior | out the first three quarters of the game. Yardage punts debainied: 27 70 NOTICE
not stand out until Saturday, when he championshrip this past summer, | One of his boots in Saturday’s game was Fumbles —-----..---. - 3 3 ;
showed his heels to the W. & L. boys A summary of both tournaments to date; good for 73 yards. Own famblervecoversd.. 1 2 Have your shoes rebuilt oo
on several occasions. If he continues to | appears below, with the varsity results pre-| Opp tefumm bles racow: 1 2 DAVIDSON SHOE SH t
improve it wouldn’t surprise us to see = ceding the Freshmen: | ; Yards lost by penalties. _30 70 Work done ae hfe shea
him start as a regular before long. First round: Halverstadt drew a bye; Gar-| 0-3; Scott defeated Lake, 6-1, 6-2; Brown CA, ReNneD popneror i)
rett defeated Marvin, 7-5, 6-3; Morrow de-| defeated Rice, 6-4, 0-2; Myers defeated Mul- S > o
Charlic Pearce played a great game for feated Fugate, 6-0, 6-1; Smith Aateniead Man-|liss, 6-1, 5-7, 6-0; Phifer defeated Coit, 6-2, Had ca
the Wildcats while he was in the contest.| son, 6-0, 6-0; Scott drew a bye; Lake | 6: 3; Elvery defeated Gullette, 6-3, 6-0; Laf- ;
His punting kept the ball in enemy terri-| feated Hellinger, 6-1, 6-1; Rice defeated oid | ferty defeated MeRKeithan, 6-2, 6-4,
tory throughout the first half, forcing the pins, 6-0, 6-3; Brown drew a bye; Mullis | Quarter-finals: Halverstadt and Morrow
Generals to kick out of danger every time) defeated Bogart, 6-0, 6-1; Myers drew a bye; | have not played as .yet; Scott defeated .
they got possession of the ball. One of his) Phifer defeated Kirkpatrick, 6-3, 6-2; Coit! Brown, 11-9, 7-5; Myers defeated Phifer, 6-2,
boots went 73 yards before being downed defeated Sutton, 6-1, 6-1; Elvery drew ales and Lafferty defeated Elvery, 3-6, 6-4,
on the Generals’ six-yard marker. He also bye; Gullette defeated West, 6-4, 8-10, 6-33) 6-3.
carried the ball for.several nice gains and)-McKeithan defeated Voegtlen, 6-1, 6-2; and|-~Semi-finats: Laffertyedefeated Myers, 6-3,
was credited with Davidson’s only touch-! Lafferty drew a bye. 7-5, 6-3 f | f |
down. Second round: Halverstadt de feated Gar: | Freshman tournament: Hassell defeated A IR
ey aes rett, 6-1, 6-2; Morrow defeated Smith, 6 Cassidy, 6-3, 6-3; Bell defeated Murray, 6-1,
‘The defensive power the Wildcats | sie ‘
showed in the second quarter when they | bf pees on a N
held the visitors for downs just under the ANNOUNCING THE OPENING OF |
goal posts must have pleased Coaches | FOR CTHE
Newton and McEver. It was a tense The Oaks Tavern Tea Room |
moment when Wingfield allowed a W.
& L. punt to be downed on Davidson's Mrs. Harry Y. Mott, Manager
12-yard line, and more tense when the Dinner Parties Picnics Card Parties
visitors recovered a Wildcat fumble on Lawn Parties Club Meetings
the next play. In three downs the vis- Banquets .
itors gained five yards through the line, :

MAN

“Charley” Myers

