THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 26, 1932

CITADEL BULLDOGS
NOSE OUT
WILDCATS, 7-6

THE SPORTS PARADE

3

DAVIDSON HARRIERS
MEET
DUKE FRIDAY ,

Despite the defeat at the hands of The
Citadel last Saturday, the Wildcats must
be complimented on their determined
uphill fight which finally netted a touch-
down for Davidson in the closing min-
utes of the game. And even in defeat,
the Wildcats looked great. Compliments
must be passed out to the victors also,
and especially to the ever-alert Jennings,
who has been waiting for three years to
taste victory over Davidson.

The Citadel, who we rated the under-dogs
by three touchdowns last week, played a
great game against Davidson Saturday, as
Davidson has played against teams which
were supposed to be their superiors in past
years. We do not think that Citadel has the
better team, but at the same time we un-
derstand that football games are decided by
the score and the Bulldogs held the big end
of a 7-6 score.

Quite a few Davidson students have
been wondering why. Davidson’s coaches
did not use “Buck” Mills at all in Sat-
urday’s game. They feel that if Mills
had been in the-contest the result would
have been different. Whether or not
Davidson would have won cannot be
decided now that the game has been
played, but let us look at the Citadel-
Davidson game of 1931. Davidson won,
14-7, and “Buck” was the player who was
largely responsible for the Wildcat vic-
tory. Mills hurled a pass to King to
give Davidson her first score. Later he
recovered a Bulldog fumble on their 8-
yard line and Pearce scored Davidson's
second touchdown on the following play.
Mills also got credit for the longest run
of the game when he returned the open-
ing kick-off 47 yards.

We were told that we were largely re-
sponsible for Davidson’s defeat Saturday be-
cause we had predicted a three-touchdown
victory for the Wildcats and thereby had
made them a bit cocky: We resented the
flattering statement on these grounds. We
do not think that predicting victory or de-
feat would affect a football team in that way.
If we did think so, then to make the Wild-
cats feel the under-dogs and to make their
opponents feel cocky, we would always pre-
dict victory for Davidson opponents.

In order to-escape any further accusations,
we hesitate to predict an outcome for the
Clemson-Davidson game this Saturday, but
instead, present a few statistics surrounding
the play of the two teams this season. Of
course, we don’t put any more faith in these
scores than you do, but just for the fun of
it we figured out that Davidson will win
from Clemson and then we figured that
Davidson will lose to Clemson. Take a look
at these.

Davidson beat Wofford, 40-6; hence
Davidson is 34 points better than Wof-
ford. Wofford beat Erskine, 7-0; hence
Davidson is 41 points better than Er-
skine. Clemson beat Erskine, 19-0; hence
Davidson ‘is 22 points better than Clem-
son.

Duke beat Davidson, 13-0, and Duke
beat Wake Forest, 9-0. Hence Wake
Forest is 4 points better than Davidson.
Carolina tied Wake Forest, 0-0; hence
Carolina is 4 points better than David-
son. Georgia Tech beat Carolina, 43-14;
hence Georgia Tech is 33 points better
than Davidson. Georgia Tech beat Clem-
son, 32-14. Hence Clemson is 13 points
better. than. Davidson. eee

Yes, it sounds like the work of a maniac,
but there you are. Comparative scores mean
nothing: The items above prove that. The

Captain Jennings Leads
Citadel to 7-6 Victory
Over Davidson Gridders

Star Bulldog Quarterback Scores All
His Team’s Points in Sensational
Exhibition

With an elusive, _eel-hipped quarterback
named Jennings leading the way, the Fight-
ing Bulldogs of The Citadel turned in the
week’s outstanding upset with a 7 to 6 vic-

4ttory—over their highly favored opponents

from Davidson. The Cadets, playing before
a home-coming. crowd and against a team
they were itching to lick, rose to unprece-
dented heights, and played inspired football,
to leave the Wildcats dazed as to what was
happening.

It was that boy Jennings who was the
garlic in Davidson’s stew all the way through
the exciting gridiron classic. He~ started
things off by returning Pearce’s punt .48
yards, through the entire Davidson team,
to ring up Citadel’s touchdown. He then
converted from placement, which proved to
be the margin of victory: Not satisfied with
scoring all of his team’s points ,the redoubt-
able Jennings, broke through a heavy Da-
vidson forward wall, late in the game, to
smother Mackorell’s try for the tieing point.
He had gone back in defeat before a Wild-

touchdown, and again by a lone point, and
victory in his final varsity campaign must
be indeed sweet.

Despite the will-o-the-wisp actions of the
shifty Jennings, Hugh King had a hand in
the Bulldog victory. He sent an 80-yard
punt spiralling over Pearce’s head, that went
out of bounds on the Wildcats’ 5-yard line.
It was on the kick-out that Jennings made
his spectacular run for touchdown. Pearce,
who handled Davidson’s kicking assignment
during the first half, punted well, as did
Mackorell, who took over the job in the
last half.

The Wildcats played better ball than the
Bulldogs on paper, scoring nine first downs
to two for the Cadets. However, the score-
board tells the victor, and even though it
can’t show how close it was, 7 to 6 shows
the bitterness of the struggle between the
two ancient foes.

The Citadel. touchdown came about the
middle of the initial canto, when after an
exchange of punts, King placed his 80-yard
boot out on the Davidson 5-yard marker.
Pearce kicked out to Jennings, who received
the ball on Davidson’s 48-yard stripe, and
eluded two tacklers, and on the 35-yard line
his interference formed, and he went on un-

Citadel proved that, when they defeated Da-
vidson 7-6 last Saturday. Nevertheless, we
give you the above to let you pick your own
winner,

Personally we think the Wildcats will win,
but at the same time believe that they will
have a hard time Saturday. (

y

Big Five Standings

Team W. L. T. Pet.
Dukegsee eae 2\0 O- 1,000
NG; State ...---2.2 CaN ties Laie
Carolitia.-~=---=-oassce (oe | aN) CIERRA
Davidson _._-__------ Oe 000
Wake Forest -------- O. eh 2 000

cat onslaught twice before, once ‘by—one+

Wildcat Flankman

YVOE MORRIS,: ENO

Joe Morris, stellar Sophomore end,
__who has pleased Wildcat coaches with
his performances this fall. Morris scored
Davidson's - only touchdown Saturday
against Citadel by catching a pass from

Johnny Mackorell.

impeded .to a touchdown. He kicked the

goal from placement.

The ball see-sawed-back and forth, large-
ly in Davidson territory, and the half ended
without further scoring.

The third period also proved uneventful,
no scoring threats being made. However,
in the dying moments of the game, capable
Johnny Mackorell reeled off runs of 12 and
17 yards respectively to put the ball on The
Citadel’s 2-yard line. Mackorell was held
for no gain, and Willson. bucked it to the
2-foot line. Fleagle then lost 12 yards in an
attempted end run. Mackorell then dropped
back and sent a flat pass to. Morris, lanky
Wildcat flankman, who stepped over the goal
line for a touchdown. “The ever-alert Jen-
nings broke through and blocked Mackorell’s
attempt for the touchdown.

There is no need to put down here who
was the outstanding man on the Cadet elev-
en. Captain Jennings, out for revenge, put
on a one-man show, and won the day, over
a higher rated aggregation of leather-toters,
and with the long-booting King playing in
the supporting cast, took off the honors of
the afternoon for both sides.

Johnny Mackorell proved his worth as a
triple-threat man in the Wildcat backfield,
when he took over the punting assignment
in the last half in addition to his. running
and passing. He also got ‘off the two long-
est runs from scrimmage that were made
during the—afternoon.__The—werk--of—those
dependable blocking backs, Bruce Peabody
and Eb Willson, cannot be overlooked. Will-
son started the ‘game at right half, and the
little fellow played a bang-up game. Mor-
ris, Hand, Rives and Wagner were out-

standing in the Wildcat line.

115 W. 4th St., Charlotte

LITTLE PEP SANDWICH SHOPPE

“The Original Sandwich Shop”

VISIT US

and Davidson

i

TOBACCOS
STUDENT

FOUNTAIN SERVICE
W. S. HENDERSON

NEXT DOOR TO POSTOFFICE

CANDY
SUPPLIES

Davidson Tracksters

To Meet Blue Devils

Howard and Frazier Unable to Com-
pete as Teammates Seek to
Avenge 1931 Defeat

Next Friday both the Varsity and. Fresh-
man cross-country teams -will tour to Dur-
ham for a meet with the Duke distance men.
Both teams are looking for revenge for de-
feats last year, and both may*get it. Train-
ing has been going on in earnest since school
began, and everyone seems to be in good
shape«to meet the Blue Devils this week.
The varsity will have to adapt their stride
to“ the Duke five-mile course, while the
Freshmen wiil only cover two and one-half
miles.

Tryouts were held last Friday in order to
determine who would make the trip. The
order of the varsity men at the finish was
as follows: Rufus Morrow, Hubert Morris,
Archie McFadyen, George Gullette, Bob
Woodside, and Ray Richardson. The Fresh-
men who will probably make the trip are
Billy Merchant, Archie Shuford, Fields
Young, Harvey Glass, Paul Harlan, and Foy.

John Howard, the second best man and
onty--Sentor—on—the—varsity~team, wilt not
be able to go because of ministerial duties
which bind him to the vicinity. The Fresh-
men will suffer the loss of Captain Frazier,
stellar distance man, who is ineligible: be-
cause of scholastic standing.

The varsity has a meet scheduled with
the Winston-Salem All-Stars on Friday, No-
vember 11, and another the following week-
end with Clemson College.

Line-ups:

Citadel (7) Position’ Davidson (6)
AGNOIMSS stood se scee [Diy sscusceees Morgan
McFadden ~-------- | Cr Be aepeeteps  reeaee Wagner
McCraw <=----<-2.- iGiecccesccne see and
Mitchell _-------- Center_-_____-- McElrath
Griffinesss ses cceece RiGmeaveeesessces Rives
Ogvilvie ~--...-2=2. Re bysvcee (C) Whitfield
Kiligiecccssusccucoug RB esocseteecees Morris
Jennings (C) ------ QB iscses see Peabody
Bakercoccscusccs cee JUS Bee nes Mackorell
Havulkner cusessscse ROH ee eescco8 2.. Willson
Symmes ----------- Bib iecceeeccces Pearce
Score by periods:
Citadel: ss sSeesc eet et eee 7 00 0-7
Davidson sscssvesesseckoce esse 000 66
Citadel scoring: Touchdown, Jennings;
point after touchdown, Jennings (place-

kick). Davidson scoring: Touchdown, Mor-
ris.

Referee, Frew (Washington & Lee); Um-
pire, Hackney (North Carolina); Headlines-
man, Von Koinitz (South Carolina).

» What Davidson’s 1932
Opponents Did

DUKE 9, WAKE FOREST 0.

W. & L. 0, William & Mary 7.
WOFFORD 7, Erskine 0.

V. M. I. 6, Virginia 4.
‘CLEMSON 0, South Carolina 14.
N. C. STATE 17, Florida 6.
CAROLINA 14, Georgia Tech 43.

@

NOTICE
Have your shoes rebuilt at the
DAVIDSON SHGE SHOP
Work done while you wait.
C. A. KENNEDY, Proprietor

+

Betas, Pikas, Phi Delts
Lead Way in Football

The inter-fraternity football tournament
drew near to the end with the Beta Theta
Pi, Phi Delta Theta and Pi Kappa Alpha
fraternities yet remaining undefsated. The
Beta’s are leading the field by the virtue
of victories over the Kappa Alpha, and Sig-
ma Alpha Epsilon teams, which placed them
in the finals after receiving a bye. The
Pika’s and Phi Delt’s meet in the other half
of the semi-finals and the winner plays the
Beta’s for the championship. The Pika’s
defeated the Sigma Phi Epsilon and Kappa
Sigma fraternal men, while the Phi Delt’s
overcaime* the Theta Upsilon Omega fra-
ternity. They then entered the semi-finals
when they were favored with a bye.

The Beta’s, after taking the K. A.’s for
a ride to the tune of 12 to 0, went on to win
theit second encounter from the S. A. EVs
by yardage. When neither team was able
to score after playing the full game and an
extra period, the ball was given to each team
for-five minutes. “The Beta’s gained thirty
yards by a pass from Richardson to Taylor
and because the S. A. E’s were not able to
gain by fifteen yards, the Beta’s were given
the decision.

The Phi Delt’s eliminated the T. U. Os
in the first round 6 to 0 after a hard-fought
battle. The Phi Delt’s scored in the>tast
few ming of play by a pass from Laf-
ferty. to/Lewis.

The Pika’s eked out a victory over the
S. P. E. aggregation in the first round and
then nosed out the Kappa Sig’s, 6 to 0. The
Pikas’ score came early in the game when,
after a series of downs, a pass from Greg-
ory to Andy Little marked the defeat of
the losers.

The winner of the tournament will be de-
cided this week when the two best teams
play on the varsity field for the champion-
ship. The Phi Kappa Alpha fraternity was
the winner last year.

Professor and Mrs.
Kimbrough Return

Professor and Mrs. John T. Kim-
brough returned to Davidson Monday,
October 24, after a honeymoon trip by
motor through the Valley of Virginia
to Annapolis, Maryland. They are. now
living in an apartment at the home of
Mrs. Potts on South Main Street.

Prior to her marriage on Tuesday,
October 18, Mrs. Kimbrough was Miss
Mary Stough of Charlotte. The cere-
mony was performed at the home-of
the bride by Dr. W. W. Peele, pastor
of the First Methodist Church of Char-
lotte.' A large number of friends and
relatives witnessed the beautiful and
impressive service.

PEVENALARAAAA

For Prompt and Courteous

SERVICE

VISIT

NORTON’S
Barber Shop

FOR ALL

HEADQUARTERS

HABERDASHERY
for DAVIDSON MEN

Fresh, New Merchandise Always at

IVEY’S
DAVIDSON
SHOP

LINES OF

