6*

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 16, 1932

Lindbergh Kidnapping Is

Newspapers’ “Big Story”

Many Elements Make the Event’ of
Interest to All Classes of Readers

Cleveland, O.—(IP) — From the point of
view of reader interest, the story of the kid-
naping of the son of Col. and Mrs, Charles
A. Lindbergh is considered by newspaper

men to be one of the biggest stories that has
ever “broken.”

There are, of course, stories which have
been of far. more importance to every news-
paper reader—such as the outbreak of the
World War, the assassination of presidents, and
the depression. But probably never has there
been aroused such universal interest in an
event.

There are many reasons for. this, otifstand-

| head

Accident Is Fatal

killed last, Thursday,; March 10th, on the
highway“between’ Davidson and Mooresville.

the car that struck*Thomas as he bounded
from the school bus on his way home.

As Thomas alighted. fromthe school bus,

imately"75 feet. The bus was headed toward
Mooresville and Mr. Stines was dirving to-

about 30 or 40 miles per hour.

The boy’s home was only about 200-yards
from the scene of the tragedy, and he was
accompanied by his elder brother who fol-
lowed him off the bus. Thomas’ face and
were badly mangled and when Mr.
Stines reached his side he revealed that

ing being the fact th here tea story the
full import of which every newspaper reader |
of any intelligence ‘whatever -was able to,
grasp on the first day it “broke,” and on}
every other day that it continued to be news.
Everyone who reads the story, especially all
women, is able to. place himself in the posi-
tion of the Lindberghs and understand their |
emotions.

Furthermore, Col. Lindbergh is undoubted-
ly unique as-an internationally known, ad-|
mired and respected individual. It is doubtful |
if any other individual in history has been |
so thoroughly “written up” in the news-

papers, or so well known, in his own life
time. |

Again, it is a baby known to almost every-
one who is most vitally involved.

There are, therefore, the elements of fame,
human interest, indignation, love of children, |

glamor of young parenthood and respect of
motherhood, all wrapped up in one news

there was no sign of life in his body. Mr.
Stines immediately placed the child in the
car and rushed him to the Mooresville Hos-
pital where the physicians pronounced him
dead and they stated that they believed that
his death ensued instantaneously.

It is believed that the accident was one of |

those unfortunate

Mr. Stines had a preliminary hearing last

Monday night and the Magistrate postponed

the trial until June 14th,

College Dramatists :
Present Two Plays

“Well I Declare” and “In the Zone”
Are Given March 8th

The fourth program of the Red and Black
Masquers, consisting of two one-act plays;

To Davidson Youth,

Thomas Newall Hobbs, 11-year-old son ‘of
Mr. and Mrs. Hobbs of near Davidson, was

Eddie Stines, of Philadelphia, was driving

the car struck him and knocked him approx- ,

ward Charlotte at an estimated speed of:

“unavoidable accidents.” |

‘> Extra Holiday

Over 600 students enrolled at David-
son College are benefitting from the
fact that this is Leap Year. It’s not the -
generallyaccepted benefits that they
are reveling in, however. Their joy“
comes through the announcement’ of
the faculty that they have been grant-
ed an extra holiday during the spring
recess because of the 29th day of Feb-
ruary. One day at this period of a stu-
dent’s college career is almost equiv-.
alent to a whole week in the minds of
some, Under the revised schedule, the
holidays will begin at 12:30 p. m. on
Thursday, March 24th, and the stu-
dents won't return until 8:30 a. m. one
week later.

‘

4

| J. C. BAKER

(Continued ftom page 1)

| given. He explained how that the present com-
petition will benefit the railroads. It causes
lthem to wake up and pfomote men with prac-
|tical and well-foundedyideas for improvements.
He also, spoke of the school itself, giving in
'a general way the essence of what they strive
| to give. It is not a situation where all that
| apply are taken. About half are turned down
| and they endeavor through various channels to
| obtain those who are best situated to take what
\they can give there. S@ far they, have not been
lable to reach’ the heights’ hoped for in this
l¥espect. Out of a-elass of about 600 the usual
| number to’ graduate’ is about 350. Some can-
|not return because of previous scholastic stand-
ling and some cannot return because of persenal

reasons.

MAJOR RHETT

(Continued from page, 1)
tailed to Davidson. After he completes his study
next year, the Washington authorities. will
probably send him to the foreign field for serv-
ice or place him on the general staff, on which
Colonel Scott has previously served.

| DR. BOYD
(Continued from page 1)
and pure. As a man thinketh in his heart, so
is he.
Dr. Boyd closed his inspiring talk by having
all present to repeat a passage from Philip-

pians, “Bringing into captivity every thought
to obedience of God.”

The course covers two years and they do not
allow the entrant to pick and choose; his first
year is mapped out practically a'together as
the school sees fit. The second year the student
can pick out some particular field and advance
as he can. Many choose banking. But the fact
that one certain field is chosen does not mean
that his living will be made in it. Many that
study for banking are given other jobs. These
he used as illustrations.

Dr. Baker stated that a good knowledge of
English composition is one of the best courses
that can be taken for a preparation for the
school. Accounting and economics were vther
advisable courses.

The main idea of the school is to prevent
men from trying to become experts tes soon.

Arrowsmith was used as an example. Specialists
are not required and those that are trained for
special lines of work do not necessarily follow

. f dé
it. The background is very necessary “and then.
the student’ can: decide...

Another great advantage is gotten from the
fact that the school will get the student .a job
if they can. They do not promise anything, but
the case is such that usually all except about 30
jor 40 have situations by the time of gradua-
| tion.
The latter part of the hour was given to
| answering questions asked by the class.
|

DAVIDSON PRESIDENT

(Continued from page 1)

ferent from the past generation. Its education
is along pagan lines. There is no religious edu-
cation in the schools; Bible instruction in the
homes has been reduced to a minimum; and
churches have only about half the children for
about 20 minutes a week for religious training.”

At the evening banquet, attended by Davidson
alumni, trustees and patrons, Dr. Lingle told
of the growth and expansion of the college and
plans for the future. The toastmaster was Pro-
fessor R. C. Deal, of East Carolina Teachers’
College, Greenville. Both interspersed their re-
marks with many anecdotes.

So successful was the banquet, with alumni
from 14 towns of East Carolina, that a per-
manent East Carolina chapter of Davidson
alumni was organized, with Rev. R. E. Me-
Clure, pastor of the local church, as president;
Dr. R. S. McGeachy, of Kinston, vice-presi-
dent, and Gene Booth, of Kinston, secretary-
treasurer. These three officers will draft defi-
nite details of organization and make plans
for annual meetings. About 100 alumni reside
in this section.

College Men Put Over Tab-Collar Shirt

Story. It is difficult to conceive of another |,Wwas presented here on the night of Tuesday,

story that could rank: with it.

It is interesting to note, also, that for the
first. time the radio has taken on the aspect
of a newspaper in making regular and timely
reports on the progress of the case. Far from
detracting from the newspaper sales, this has
engendered them, and after every radio re-
port on the case newspapers throughout the
nation have heen swamped with calls from

the radio audience seeking further informa-
tion,

Two Matches Are Fired
' By Davidson Rifle Team

Charlotte Scouts and Gastonia Gun
Club Are Opponents in Matches

Last Saturday night, March 12th, the Dav-
idson College Rifle Team met the Charlotte
Scouts here in the College Armory’s seventy-
five foot range, in the first match of the
season. Three teams competed in the match:
the visitors, the varsity team of Davidson,
and the freshman team, These three teams’
scores were compared, and.it was found that
the varsity had the highest, the freshmen
came second, and the Scouts were the losers
to both teams.

This year’s team’s captain is Samuel S.
Wiley, of Salisbury, N. C., and the manager
is Paul F. Brown, of Atlanta, Ga. Other mem-
bers of the team are: M. L. Brohard, Allen
Graham, Francis Scott, Albert Mills, Craig
Purcell, and Everett Escott.

The stellar marksman on the freshman
team is Gordon Green, of Rome, Ga.; he has
competed with several of the varsity shoot-
ers and has had the better score. Other mem-
bers of the freshman team are: Rigdon Dees,
Baxter Simpson, and “Judge” Cathey.

Last Tuesday night a team composed of
the best members of the varsity and fresh
man teams journeyed to Gastonia, where
they met the Gastonia Gun Club, in a should-
er to shoulder match. This team was also
met last year.

MASQUERS PRESENT PLAY

(Continued from page 1)

The.cast for the play is the same as when
presented here, with the change of one char-
acter, Alfred Tong takes the place of Dave
McLain! as the detective. The cast is as fol-
lows:

The Tramp

SEE ees as A. Rachal
The Groom --_---------_. Jimmy Simpson
- The Bride --------_--.- Mattie McLemore

. The, Chauffeur
The Novelist

Ed Hancock

The Wife-____-_____- Carrie Lena Moffett
The Constable .--..--_-_._- Gordon Wood
The Milkman ____-__-_____- Jack Williams
Th -eOther Woman --_-_-_._Bill McIlwinen
The Detective --..----2--_2- Alfred Tong
ethexFathey, i. 25----.. 3. Joe Womble

; The Red and Black Masquers are. also plan-
ning to take this play to Statesville.

| March 8th, The plays were “Well, I Declare”

and “In the Zone.” The first of these was)
| given under the direction of Henry McFay-,
den. Its plot concerned an experiment which |
involved a wonderful fluid which had been
discovered by Dr. Dalton. The solution was
astounding as well as amusing.

The second play of the evening, “In the|
Zone,” was directed by Horace Ervin. It is}
|one of a series of sea stories which‘were |
| written by Eugene O'Neal, the setting of
| which is S. S. Glencairn.
| The casts for the plays were:
| “Well, I Declare” H
Dr. Dalton Gordon Wood |
Assistant Charlie Moore!
ID ieeRabinowitz esssesseo sees Dave McLean |

Fad Turns Into Popular Demand as Males in all Walks lake it Up

NHALK up another goa! for the
C college man: He has scored
again as a style-maker of men’s
apparel. This time it is the “tab”
shirt. A year ago one or two manu-
facturers put out a shirt with a ‘‘tab’’
collar. There was no blare of trump-
ets -r sounding of cymbals. They
thought it might be a fad for a few
months and expected it to die a rapid
death. Today the men of the country
have the shirt makers busy turning
out ‘tabs,’ and all because the col-
legians put their stamp of approval
on the novelty. They liked it, bought
it, wore it and it is now spreading to
all walks of life.
The txb is a combination of British
strength and American style. The col-

smartness and class is the color and
pattern combination which the styl-
ists have evolved. The prevailing pat-
terns are fine cluster stripes in blue,
tan, gray, green, brown and lavender
They are so fine and so close together
that they give the fabric the appear-
ance of smooth, solid-colored texture

with a fine grain. These patterns
come in broadcloth and add to the
already sheer luster of the material.
Another broadcloth has “candy”
stripes, which are slightly more pro
nounced.

The same color and pattern com-
binations are seen in madras, which
is also offered in solid blue, tan and

Oxford with tab collar in solid blue,
tan, silver and green. Tabs are also
found on shirts of solid white broad-
cloth and of broadcloth with ‘‘white
on white” stripes or white figures
The popularity of the tab indicates
that many men feel that it sulves the
problem of che fellow who desires the
neatness of a starched collar and the
comfort and convenience of a collar-
attached shirt. This is believed to
be one of the chief factors in the trend
towards tabs in college, where men
are apparently. paying more and more
attention to their neckwear. The tab
is in the center of the collar, up and
down, and buttons over a collar but-
ton. It is wider than those at first
offered, as the narrow tabs drew the
collar and made it wrinkle. A unique
and eflicient feature is a narrow strip
of celluloid, which slips into the front
point on either side underneath and
keeps the front of the collar erect
Comfort and smartness for the tabs
are provided by expert ‘‘shaping’’ of
the collar to the neck. Some of the
first, English tab collars were too full
and high at the sides, causing a
wrinkle or fold around the bottom of
the collar on each side. Now they
are cut out like a regular, starched,
separate collar and present a smooth
surface all around. They are 2%
inches high in front, 1% inches at the
sides and 15 inches in the back.

RGASSiy; teat ce ewer n ee eae Reeves Pope’ lar is CU hin and dealt
| q +1; | looking t oesn wrinkle. Ss
ihe sbrotessor =seu—. esees Jack Williams | oothis donth curl up, fe Keeps’ tea
Re pontetieces = aseanne sao Duck Powell shape It looks as if it were made of
“In the Zone” | heavy, dependable material. That's
Davis “Henry Hodgin | the British of. it. Ana pide
a Sire penning ehh toa ae ty ? H tiality, uowever, has been tempere
SCOtty ests ee ss sais Ge ee R. Lessem by a style typically ala} be
itty ; can't put your finger on it but it’s
SHANG) oop erecta Hugh Johnston See UUEia wm. eat ie wlth QIRHIEER
Olsoniete soos seer e ee Oscar Normand | smart collar, a snapp, collar. That's
Ty aa fees Sere he See Tack Easton | the reason, it is said, the Golleae men
; . fa took to it instantly. at's the rea-
DD RiscOll ses uae eee SSR ee H. W. Ervin, son it is taking on so generally among
Cocky css. Pree ee ae T. Wood | men outside of college
Yank W. Hollingsworth | Another thing that gives the tab

silver. Another popular shirt is ar.

During the intermission between the plays|
The Sunnyland Serenaders played several |
selections which were enjoyed very much, |

MUSIC PROGRAM

“Doc” Newton to Assist (Continued from pgae 1)
Laird as Baseball Coach | man's Soaring, was given by Ed McNair.
|George Pardington rendered as vocal solos The

Flas. Good Record on Diainond as Both | EN al a Perfect Day and Little Mother of
wine, with The Border Ballad as an encore.
Coach and Player |

| Following these solos the Glee Club again

; eH Si hoosing. as their selections Ollie Speaks’
It is ver robable that William “Doc”? | “2"* © soe
g vB e ; ae Morning and The Road to Mandalay, and Go-

Newton, Davidson’s new head coach, will) <
u : soeer .,.|itg Home, taken from Dvorak’s new World
assist coach Flake Laird with the varsity | . pe oe 2 ;
: s !Symphony. The Sleigh by Kountz-Baldwin and
baseball team this year. Newton, who is at). ‘ .
fi Fes A Schubert's By the Sea, two new numbers sung
present in Birmingham, Ala., is expected to

: p . |by the Glee Club, received hearty applause.
return to the campus in a few days to begin)... Z . Mee

work with the team. co |McLain, Geddy Monroe, and Billy Northern,

Coach Newton, in addition to his gridiron |. 1, fanetionsd: well! hel proeraiie wa ioeed
record, has as great, if not greater, record|. Se bea E ahd eee
on the diamond. He pitched for the Balti- | and Garanatece
more Orioles for two consecutive seasons, |
during one of which they established a’ The program was the most complete musical
world’s record of winning 27 consecutive | “Mtertainment given by Davidson students this
games. He also pitched for Birmingham of | Year. It was well-rounded, containing both
the Southern League, for the Montgomery | ‘lassical and popular modern selections. The
club of South Alabama, and Alen for ball) S#me program was also given Tuesday night
clubs at St. Joseph, Mo., Little Rock, and! #* Belmont High School.
| Kinston, Va. He was baseball and football |
coach at Howard College for two years and|
it was from here that he went to the Uniyer- |
sity of Tennessee to become scout and base-
ball coach, but as the latter was abolished
there, he never had a chance to coach.

It is hoped, therefore, that Coach Newton
will work With the hurlers this spring. in
hopes of developing several good ones, as the
scarcity of pitchers was the team’s weak
spot last year. It is evident also that David-
son could not find a more capable man to
assist Coach. Laid in developing a good. all-
round team. : :

SCARLET TANAGER
Sodas — Tobacco — Sundries

Open All Night Friday,
March 18th

Prompt Service

|The Pills Brothers, a trio composed of Dave |

| with the playing of O Davidson by the Sunny-’

'
\
\ Seg
'

|
|
|
|
\
|

|

|

SUITS

With the dash to
lead the

EASTER
PARADE

$18.95 to $27.50

Even though you have decided to cut
down on your clothes budget this year
you can well afford to lead the Easter
parade in the matter of correctness
and quality. We have bought with that
idea in view ... and now that we've
told you ... so can you.

Men’s Street

Floor

