a VARSITY VS.

Government.”

ERSKINE TO-
MORROW NIGHT

The Davidsor

nian

“ALENDA

LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

TALKS ON
WASHINGTON

CONTINUE -

Vol. XIX

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 3, 1932

No. 16

Dr. W. T. Ellis Addresses PAN-HELLENIC COUNCIL “Washington” is Subject

Davidson Student Body.
During Chapel Services

Speaker Is Noted Lecturer and Writer
on Social, Political and Religious
Topics

GRADUATE OF SWARTHMORE

Gives Important Factors in Obtaining
Well-rounded Education

“Japan has set off the fireworks that may
destroy the civilization of the world,” today
declared Dr. William T. Ellis, noted lecturer
and writer on social, political, and religious
topics, in speaking at the chapel exercises of
Davidson College. “January 29th may be a
more fateful day than that day back in the
summer of 1914 which precipitated the World
War.”

Dr. Ellis, who has been on several war fronts
in the capacity of a reporter, who has traveled
extensively all over the world, and is an inter-
nationally known figure, made the above dec-
laration parenthetically in his talk to the Da-
vidson students on the three most important
factors in a college education, and made no
further elaboration upon his prediction. His
prophetical declaration fell upon a hushed au-
dience.

This eminent leader maintained that the three
essentials of college education are ‘to recog-
nize your own individuality, develop the rela-
tionship between yourself and your fellow man,

and to accept books of authority, and most. of |

all to aceept, the Bible.”
“If T had my way,” he declared, “Ll would

(Continued on page 6)
. e

Faculty Announces

——~ Elaborate Program

Washington Bicentennial Anniversary
Celebrated in Co-operation With
National Government

In accord with the request made by the Na-
tional Government, to have some form of cele-
bration for the Washington bicentennial, the fac-
ulty committee consisting of Dr. J. M. McCon-
nelf, Dr. T. W. Lingle, and Prof. A. Currie,
announce the following speakers for the regular
chapel periods on the dates given:

Saturday, January 30, Dr. T. W. Lingle spoke |’

on Washington's Statesmanship.

Thursday, February 4, Professor Currie will
speak on Washington’s Influence in Our For-
eign Policy.

Thursday, February 11, Dr. W. L.
will speak on Washington's Character.

Thursday, February 18, Dr. J. M. McConnell
will speak on Washington, the Christian Gen-
tleman. .

To climax the celebration, President Rond-
thaler of Salem College will deliver the main
address on Washington's birthday, February 22.
Following this, Dr. C. E. Raynal, of Statesville

Lingle

ceremony.

One of the attractions of the Washington
celebration will be the free cinema which will
be held at the Davidson Theater on the after-
noon of February 17. The title of the photo-
plays to be presented are “Washington and His
Comrades in Arms,” and “Washington and His

‘

Freshmen Select Wiley
Student Council Adviser

Sam S. Wiley, of Salisbu Salisbury, prominent mem-
ber of the Senior class of Davidson College
has been selected by the Freshman class to act
as chairman of their class until the regular
election of officers for the ensuing year. Five
names of Senior members were presented to
the Freshmen, and Wiley was their choice on
the first ballot. Nore

According to a decision made by the Fresh-
man class last year and upheld by the class
this year, the Freshmen do not elect a presi-
dent of their class until the regular election
time for ad# student body and class officers.
He is then known as the Sophomore president,
and acts until officers for the Junior year are
chosen. The selection of Wiley, however, gives
the class an individual through: which they
might work, and to whom they might go for
advice in class affairs.

C t .| Lucas, Chester, S.C:
will deliver an address and lead a tree planting :

‘| den, Burlington, N. C.:

*t ander,

DR. J. T. GARTH WILL

Professor E. A. Beaty Is

GIVES ENTERTAINMENT |’ Used by Dr. T. W. Lingle TALK HERE ON EEB. 11) Heard Sunday Evening at

Many Girls Come to to Davidson From
Southern Colleges for Mid-
Winter Frolic — .
One of the most brilliant affairs of the sea-
son was ushered in on Friday evening, Janu-
ary 29, 1932, at the formal dance in the Char-
lotte Armory from 10 ‘til 2 A. M. This was!
the beginning of the annual Pan-Hellenics, spon-
sored by the Pan-Hellenic Council, and the se-
ries closed at 12 o'clock Saturday evening.
The color motif was green and white. The

streamers were gathered in a point at the cen-|ton as the statesman rather than as the soldier.

ter of the hall, and swayed outward in a cir-
cle. The floor was banked with cedar trees
At the end of the hall were all the lighted
shields of the Davidson fraternities. The or-

chestra alcove was decked in green and white.
“Tal”

was ‘augmented by a well-trained group and

plenty of brass. Tal Henry's group was one,

i

fi irst of Series of Talks on George
Washington Places Emphasis on
Statesmanship

“Race Psychology” to Be Subject of
University of Denver Speaker

Last Saturday at chapel Dr. T. W. Lingle! Dr. J. ‘T. Garth, of the Division of Edu-
Rave the first of a series of talks about George | cation and Psychology at the University of
Washington. These talks, to be presented from . . .

_ Denver, Denver, Colo. will give a lecture in
now until February 22, are a part of the na-

tion-wide celebration of the 200th anniversary | Chambers Auditorium at 7:30, Thursday, Feb-

| of the birth of the first President. The speak-!ruary 11, on “Race Psychology.” Dr. Garth's

ers will be mostly from the faculty. Necture will be illustrated by lantern slides.

Dr. Lingle’s talk- centered around Washing- }, Garth is at present on a lecture tour of

the United States. Besid ur college, he will
He pictured to us through several incidents in” Su cs 0 ones

his life why QVashington was outstanding as 4!80 give talks at Smith College, Wellesly,
a leader. One of these was his extremely fine |The Sociat Science School of New York City,

judgment in picking such men for his cabinct !
as Thomas Jefferson and Alexander EHlamilton,

Lingle, there have never
been two such excellent leaders and dominat-
ing personalities .in any cabinet. Washington.

of the best orchestras ever had at these dances, ‘lie explained, did nat go around slapping every-

and they were the main help in making the
week-end a success.

The individual entertainments were: Formal
dance, Friday evening, January 29, 1932. Jn
this was a figure led by Nat Speir and Miss

one on the back, but he was very friendly. Dr.

| leingle also showed us how that he was a leader

not only of public affairs but also of private
affairs, as. was seen by the way in which he
managed his great estate at Mt. Vernon. He

Martha Clark, of Fayetteville, N. C., and Ld believed in a strictly democratic government,

- . .
Kuykendall and Miss Sue Horner, Others taséo7itd

ing part in this were elected from their fra-
ternities. The tea dance, Saturday, afternoon,
January 30, 1932, from 4 ‘til 6:30 o'clock. And
the informal dance held on Saturday evening
bfrom 9 ‘til 12, which ended this series of en-
tertainments.

The following young ladies, up on the bids of
different fraternities, from all over the country,
were here in attendance: '

Phi Gamma Delta

Mary Lanier, Birmingham, Ala.; “Tut" Gor-
-rell, _Greenshoro, NG, Margaret Williams,
Winston-Salem, N. C.: Mary Alice MacCoyle,
Hickory, N.°C.: Romaine Clark, Wilson, N.
C.; Douglis Long. Greenshoro, N. C.: Mar-
garet. Smith, Leaksvitle. N. C.: Rose White
Kenny,. Windsor, N.
Bern. N. C.: Saltie B. Hughes, Knoxville,
Tenn.: Emily } Machan. Knoxville, Tenn: Jane ,
Boyd, Nashville” Tenn: Lucy James, Green-
ville, N. C.; Dorothy Seilers, Burlington, N.
C.; Mary MacKay, Concord, N.°C.; Mary
Louise Means, Concord, N. C.: Elizabeth Odell,
Concord, N. C.; Mary Creech, Winston-Sa-
lem, N.C.

Kappa Alpha
Mamie Denton, Concord, N. C.; Ann Hoover, |
; Concord, N. C.: Elizabeth Gilmore, Wilming
ton, N.C.; Dorothy Dorsett. Lexington, N.
Harriet Cobb, Durham, N. C.: Rose White
Kenney, Windsor, N. C.; Ruth Whiton, Char-
lotte, N. C.; Amelia Webb, Charlotte, N. C.
IJeistand Scott, Davidson,
art Spears, Chattanooga,
Jock, Bluefield, W. Va
dlerson, S. Co; “Lib”
May D. Marion,

one

N. C.: Mary Stew-
Tenn.; Isabel Pol-
: Cynthia Barnes, An-
lewis, Chester, S. C:
Charlotte, N, C.; Susanne
Eleanor Hayes, Char-
ilotte, N. C.; Dot Montgomery, Charlotte, N.C,

Beta Theta Pi

Louise Tate, Charlotte, N. C.; Effie Murphy.
Rock Hill, S. C.: Catherine Kiker, Reidsville,
N. C.; Dot McClintock, Charlotte, N. C.: Gean
Foster, Cincinnati, Ohio; Mary Barnett. Welch,
| W. Va.; Mary Ware. Darlington, S.C:

Kliza-

Elizabeth Limehouse.
Orangeburg, S. C.; Zirleta Kent, Bluefield, W.
Va.5 Carol Dean, Leland, Miss.; Edith Bow-
Edith Lathan, Greens-
ibero, N. C.; Nancy Moore. Gastonia, N.
Lib Maynard, Wilson, N. C.

Phi Delta Theta
Margaret Crawford, Converse; Martha Alex-
Newry, S. C.: Lib Wills, N.C. C.
W.; Frances Stegel, Clarkton, N. G.; Anna
Preston, Salem; Eleanor Killick, Charlotte, N.
C.; "Mary Wysdom Lambeth, Charlotte, N. C.;
Mary. Brandt, N. C. C. W.; Edwina Carpen-
eter, N.C. C. W.; Alice Grubbs. Greensboro,
N. C.; Frances- Melvin, Fayetteville, N. C.;
Sally Couch, Charlotte, N..C.;*Mary Brooks,
| Salem.

Pi Kappa Alpha

Betty Preston, University of Tennessee; Car-
oline Rowan, Concord, N. C.; Percy Williams,
Weldon, N. C.; Susan Gregory, Greensboro,
N.C;
Mulgrow, Anderson, S. C.; Eileen Brown,
Charlotte, N. C.; Hilton Rowler, Staunton,
(Continued on page 6)

G.: Fdna lldoks, New|

Dr. Lingle stated that he believed that
one of Washington’s main reasons for not tak-
ing the office of the President for the third

“time was ia order to avoid any tendenty to-

ward a monarchy. These. and other facts that
made Washington one of the greatest states-
men and most powerful personalities that the
world has ever known, were given us in an
excellent I1l-minute talk.

PRESENT THREE PLAYS

Eugene O’Neill’s Play Play Will Be Given

‘Dr.
Henry and His Orchestra furnished and for his chief justice, John Jay. From. then,

the music. They were excellent. His orchestra! until now, said Dr.

DAVIDSON DRAMATISTS!

and other, institutions in the East. Although

Garth. is at present connected with the
University of Denver, he has a brother living
at Charlotte. The Rev. J. G. Garth, his brother,
at whose home Dr. Garth will probably stay
duving his visit, assures us that Dr. Garth's
lecture ‘will not he too technical for the layman
to understand, Dr. Garth is quite an authority
on the subject of “Race Psychology.” having
written a bool on the subject.

The Icctures will be free, and the college is-
suics a cordial invitation to the stadents, fac
ulty, and townspeaple. There wilt be dwo more
lectures. during the course. The next one be-
ing on February 16, and the following one
same time in March.

Local Social Group

Gets Baker Award

Within the next ten days. the Newton 1D.
Raker cup for ocistanding social service will
he presented, for the first time to any South
(em chayter, to the Delta Kappa chapter herc.

by Little Theatre in Charlotte

The Masquers’ first program of the new year
‘will he a series of three one-act plays, to be
given on Thursday night, Februar 25> The
choice includes two plays of superior
“tn The Zone,” by no less a playwright
than Engene O'Neill, is a stirring yeture of
stern life among crude, seafaring men on the
S. S. Gleneairn: the other, “The Vahant,” a
vivid scene between a girl and her enmuinal. ;
though honorable, brother who, to save his

ame,

Ci)

| (Continued on page 6)

“murderer, stoically conceals his wdentity. The
_| third play, “Well, | Declare!” is a ridicuions
comedy especially recommended to students of
| the scicnce departments.

“The Valiant,” which will be the feature of

the Little Theatre of Chartotte,
rection of Mr.

under the di-
George’ Farrington. The Red

by the courtesy of the players, who are wit}
ing to repeat theie performance of this prize-
winning pliy before the Davidson audience.
Indeed, so powerful is this little drama, and so
many contests has it won on the merit of the
play per se, that it has been barred from many
istate contests.

Those who saw. “Bound Kast Sor Cardiff
presented by the Masquers on November 7th,

twill be in store for another incident from the '
Colleagues in the Establishing of the National beth Nicholson, Edgefield, S. C.: Nell Thomas, '8 ef the same S. S. Glencairn with practi-!
-| Winston-Salem, N. C:

ically the same crew. It ‘is one of a series of
‘plays composed by O'Neill and intended to be
i interlinked. The expression “in the zone” is
one signifying that the tramp steamer Glen-
cairn has come within the war zone known to
be set and guarded by explosive mines. The
‘excitement of the crew, their groundless sus-

lent local color built up to lend credulity to
their vapid suspicion, are all clear marks of the
hand ofan artist playwright. Higher type
drama is not to be found.

To offset the ‘lugubrious prison scené aid
O'Neill's heavy “In the Zone,” the play,
-! Declare!’! by William Mitchell, has been
i chosen. “A wonderful discovery is made in
chemistry by the professor. He finds that ‘he
-is able to exchange the natures of men. He

| fers ‘them large sums to have injections put

merit, ;

family the knowledge that he is a sentenced |

and Black Masquers feel considertibly honored |

picion of one of their own members, the excel- |

“Well, !

\of the. Pai Gamma Deita fraiernity. The wa-
‘tional otficers of the fraternity notiticd the
jiocal chapter of the award aiter it had been
iseleeted from 73 chapters seading in reports
of their activities ia the direction of religions.
social and Y. M. C. A. work. and scholastic
achievements and general vatue to the com
munity.

| This cup has been giver annually for a num-
iber of years in recognition of the outstanding
services of Newton D. Baker. Phi Gamma
{Delta member, but the occasion of its donation
this vear will he, as has heen said, exceptional,

in that this is the first chapter in the South
to win the cup.

W. Gorrell,

oo
I. of Winston-Salem, is presi

tl the evening, is to be presented by players from¥ “ent of the Davidson chapter; A. G. Montgom-

ery, of Reidsville, Willian

Rule, Pl,

is treasurer, and
is Secretary.

\Literary Clubs Hold

Interesting Meetings

The Eumencan Literary Soetety bedd its reg

_ular meeting Tuesday att and Henry C Me-

adyen gave a taik on “Fascism.” bringing
out taany points about it as it exists in Italy
today. An interesting feature of the program
was “Current Events,’ by Jake Maekorell. Ute
touched on several topics that are of world.
wide importance at present.

The members entered into an open forum
discussion. The subject was, “Resolved, That
Examinations Should Be Given 2i Davidson
: College.” Those present were divided into two
groups representing the affirmative and nega-
tive sides of ‘the question. There were four
;men chosen to speak on cach site. Those taik-
ling part were Walter FE. McNair, Fredcrick
R. Hellegers, Rufus C. Morrow, Jr., Jack Wil-
liams, Jr., Henry C. McFadyen, Stuart Henry,
Joseph L. Tyack, and Charles E. Moore, Jr.

A. business mecting was held at the Philan-

Bryde is to give a talk on “Travels on the At-

‘hires two men who are down and out and mee hall on Tuesday night. Duncan D. Mc-
i

| into their blood. Here the fun begins. One of

antics at the next meeting. He is in a posi-

the men is a crook who hires another crook | tion to discuss the subject in an intelligent and

able rubies . . .” etc., etc. The effect of the mys-

Isabel Simms, Spartanburg, S. C.; Sis|to appear as a reporter. While the experiment | informing manner as he traveled this past sum-
is in progress the professor is robbed of valu-j mer,

visiting many European ports and cap-
itals. An election of officers is to be he!d in the
near future. ° ,

Y. M: C. A. . Vesper Service

oo

“Have This Mind in 1d in You, Which Was
Also in Christ Jesus,” Is Text

SAM WILEY IS LEADER

Speaker Is Member of Language De-
partment at Davidson 5

Last Sunday night, Prof. E. A. Beaty of the
language department was the speaker at the
“Y" vesper services held in Chambers Audi-
torium. The devotional was conducted by Sam
Wiley, Y. M. C. A. councilman in charge of
vespers. Fle read a portion of the second chap-
ter of Philippians, afte which Charles Moore
and W. L. MeKeithen led in prayer. A special
solo was sung by David Mcl.can. At the con-
clusion of the service, Professor Schenck pro-
nounced the benediction.

Professor Beaty took his theme irom Philip-
pians 2:5, “Have this mind in you, which was
also in Christ Jesus.” We all know the im-
portance of the mind and how it controls our
lives and actions. We know that if our minds
are fleshly and worldly, our lives will be Wke-
wise. The mind may also be used .as the acid
test of our religion. Our words do: not show
our religion, because we can say things which
do not show our true selves. Neither do our
actions show our rcligion, because we may do
things whieh are net a truc indication of our
beliefs.

The mind of Christ furnishes a good example
of the way our mind should be. Christ had hu-
mility, Tle went the limit in humbling Flimself
hy coming to the earth. It was a hard thing to
do, but Ie emptied Himself and became as
aU. putting down His thoughts of self excel-
lencies of mind, intellect, body, and advantages.
If we would have Christ tke minds, we should
try to be humble and empty ourselves of all
uur advantages and seit interest. We should
think and live for the other person, helping
him and domg things for him. When we are abie
to five for the other person, we can live in peace
and harmony with others. We. should be hum-
ble toward God. All that we do is controlled
hy Thin and therefore we should realize that
the greatest indcpendence is that which comes
irom complete cependenee upon the God in
whom we trust. Christ trusted in God, so we
can imitate Pim,

Another great characteristic of Christ's mind
was This sincerity. This is a quality greatly to
be desired in man. Sineerity was in its original
meaning, “poured out.” There is nothing beld
back or not told in a smecere person. The world
has-no use for a man who shifts his wiews and
actions. Such a man cannot be relied upon or
trusted, Emerson said. “There ts nothing so
sacred as the ingegrity of man’s mind.” Some
icll of the bravery of men who go into battles
against odds, but it takes fust as much cour-
age to be sinecre in all things. Ji we could be
sincere and model our minds along the same
lines as that of Christ. we would solve the
problems of our relations to law. We would be
sincere 0 ourselves and then to others.

The third great characteristic of the mind of
Christ was Ths ability to strike the medium of
value i any proposition. Christ had the abili-
tics and the tind to make people say. “Never
man spake as He spoke.” and “Never man did
what We did.” Christ was able to sce clearly
and wnderstand the basic prineiples of racial
problems. personal morals, and the spirituality
THe went to the heart of the lesson

(Continued on page 6)

of God.

{Rifle Team Elimination |

Contest Now Being Held

During this weck, the elimination contest for
membership, in the rifle team will be held.

. There are 44 Freshmen and about 10 or 12

Joid tnmembers- to compete. The high scorer in
the contest will be awarded the Scabbard and
Blade trophy, which is given annually, Next
week will be held the prone position co-area
match, and later it is planned to shoot a num-
her of corresppndence matches and one or two
shoulder to shoulder contests. i

This year S. S. Wiley is captain of the team
and M. L. Brohard and A. G. Graham, who
were at Camp Perry, Ohio, where the national
rifle matches werd held, with him this surmer,
will probably be on the team. Captain Coch-
rane, U. S. Army officer stationed here, is in
charge of -the team, and Paul Brown is this
year's manager.
