THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 16, 1932

BOOK:REVIEW

The Green Bay Tree. By Louis Bromfield.

The withering of the bay tree was dreaded
as an omen of death in mythological history.
Lily Shane in this novel was the bay tree, which
remained green. Although she became aged in
years, she was not aged in beauty and spirit.
The dread of excessive avoirdupois and wrinkles
and other betrayals of antiquity was held by
her, and ‘she took the necessary~precautions with
the aid of beauty specialists of the Rue de la
paix.

The first scene of The Green Bay Tree is in
a thriving, middle-western city. The Shane fam-
ily, inhabitants of Shane’s Castle on Cypress
Hill, was the pioneer family to this present
metropolis. The immediate household was com-
posed of the mother, Julia Shane, and her two
daughters, Irene and Lily. The two girls were
in complete antithesis in character. Irene, the
younger, was childish, undeveloped, and neu-
rotic; her actions were queer at times, due prob-
ably to her timidness. Lily became a woman
early in her life; she loved crowds and good

| es just what you’d expect. People
who enjoy the good things of life...

are constantly looking for something
better to eat and drink...and smoke.

In cigarettes this better taste can come

times,

different, and thus farther apart.

Lily, undoubtedly the heroine of the novel,
has a questionable encounter with a male vis-
itor to their home; and in several months leaves
for Paris to live with an old triend,
Gigon. A son, called Jean, is born and is reared
thinking his mother is a widow, Madame Shane.

Irene goes to the opposite extreme, and !e-
comes a welfare worker in the steel factories,
which border on Cypress Hill. Here she falls
in love with a Ukranian worker, Krylenko. Her

love would not seem to be the passionate type |

of love of Lily, but just a stilted and Puritan
type of love. She devotes her present life to this

work, since her mother forbade her entering a)
convent. She is ashamed of her sister’s life and

her mother’s
for them.

hardness and

repeatedly

Julia Shane, the mother, is a pitiful character
Her husband was untrue to her: while she was
attempting to learn how to become the mistress
of the Shane home in a school in France, John

Shane was having a good time with his mis- |

tresses in Southern France. The only pleasure
she got out of life was fighting the town offi-

cials, who wanted to buy Cypress Hill, so that |

they could raise on its site a railway terminal ;
another pleasure was the nursing of her an-
tagonism toward the Harrisons, owners of the
mills. She was a very interesting character,
and dies much too soon, leaving Irene her leg-
acy in currency (which she uses in the inter-
est of the poor), and hequeathing Lily the
home, the famous Shane jewels, and some cur-
rency.

Lily, having céme home from Paris because |

of the sickness” of her mother, was found by}
Irene in a suggestive position with Krylenko, |
whom the former had begun to love, Nothing |
had gone on between these two, and I[rene’s |
accusation ‘was false. Lily returned. to Paris, |
and Irene later went to France and entered

a convent,

Madame
With Madame Gigon, who was steadily
older. Lily had
joying life to the
now, and

Ellen

refusing to forgive

Lily.

rrowing

several suitors,
He r

at oa

Tolliver,

and was

utmost. son Jean was a

young man

Her

military ‘acadeiny,

cousin, the

from

lives with her.
The World War breaks out.

son are enlisted.

and
The former is killed, and Jean
loses one of his legs. Madame Gigon dies. Lily
marries M. de Cyon, one of her suitors,
was a widower. Shane's Castle barns,
finally sells the much-coveted property. [rene
dies in the convent after thirteen years of se-
clusion, The father’ of Lily’s son is in Paris at
a political convention ;

Lily’s lover

who

they meet for a moment
and then part. Krykenko, who had been de “port

ed to his country by the United States govern- |

ment, dies of typhus. Lily lives the remainder of
her life in Paris with de Cyon.

Louis Bromfield is intere ‘sting mainly for his
description. One of the first beautiful passages
that surpasses everything that I have ever read,

“On her thin fingers she wore rings set with |

amethysts and diamnods, and about her
hung a chain of amethysts caught in a setting
of old Spanish silver. The chain reached twice
about her. thin throat and hung to her knees.
She had been standing on the piazza, a little

withdrawn from her guests, all the afternoon |

because she knew that the mauve of her gown
and the dull lavendar sparkle of the amethysts

blended superbly with the wisteria.” Anyone

who had not previously been fond of amethysts |

or anything of like color would be made to love
it. You can see the scintillations from. these

lavender stones, and also the handsome, droop- |

ing clusters of the. purple’ wisteria.

The hate of Steel is portrayed. First, Julia |

Shane despising of the close-by steel mills. The
steel described by the German soldier, of the
war, “The ladles have overturned. The white-
hot steel has spread across Europe. There is
gold in it, too... red-hot gold. . . melted gods

. idols which we worship today.” The stecl
of the knives, guns, bayonets.

Capital versus the common. The millionaire

was calm—all in contrast to Irene. As!
the story progresses these sisters grow more |

Madame |

prays |

Shane gave numerous salons in Paris

en-

town, |
whom she has helped become a famons pianist, |

and Lily |

neck |

only from finer ingredients. Chester-
fields are more satisfying to the culti-
| vated palate. For one thing, there’s
| never any attempt to skimp on Turk-
ish leaf.

These richly flavored Turkish tobac-
cos are added with a generous hand.

THEY'RE MILDER

jee PURE e ia ane BETTER © They Selisfy

| shuoser. Rople like -

-- ?

the way they _ TASTE..

In fact Chesterfield’s new way of
mingling tobacco, flavors and aromas is
really the equivalent of an entirely new
kind of tobacco . . . one that combines
the best qualities of Turkish and fine
Domestic leaf.

Perhaps you’ve noticed too, that the
paper in Chesterfields is whiter...purer.
It burns without taste or odor.

Smoke Chesterfields whenever you
like...They’re mild and pure. They'll
never tire you as an over-sweetened
cigarette might easily do. Light.up and
see for yourself. They satisfy!

@ Listen in... Hear the Chesterfield Radio Program.
Nat Shilkret’s brilliant orchestra and Alex Gray,
popular baritone. Every night, except Sunday...
Columbia Broadcasting System . .. . 10:30 E. S. T.

© 1932, Lrccerr & Myers Tosacco Co.

and town against the mill strikers. A keen in- | naturally, because the latter's story lasted onty
lsight into the conditions which surround “he }one day, while the other lasted a whole lifetime, |
workers and strikers is given here, and is of so- | The characters, however, of both novels are <a
ciological value, Social service work by Trene}excellent that it is difficult to discern which
[helps to put this idea across. the better and more interesting book

This superb author has even excellent humer} What the public needs is more books like
in his work (showing his versatility). Madame | this one. Books that arouse your. interest in
| Blaise, a crazy old woman “in a purple hat and] different subjects, like music; the author knows
‘bright Venetian shawl, was led away on the}composers and their compositions extra well;

promise of a wonderful adventure to a house in} hooks that have a ‘good word selection, and that

Versailles, where well-to-do lunatics were carcd| still reach the quintessence of the interesting. |

for and allowed to indulge to the utmost their} A]} praise to Lonis Bromfield!

idiosyncrasies.” L. W, Clardy
Philosophy of marriage by Lily shows \what

is probably the modern conception by many a

woman. “Most people get married, not because COLLEGE PRESS NEWS

they like being tied together by law, but be Ta

“ PEAS} 7. ; SAGE Y CE Lee rether i a He : s

cause it is the only way they can Hye 8 si Cleveland—(IP) Universities in New

and®still be respected by the community. Most Ss: heat : ie “teed
: <ngland and in California are being visitec

people would like to change now and_ then, | “"8!4 ar : g

It’s true. They're like that in their deepest! by Dr. Salli Finkelstein of Warsaw, said to

hearts . . . far down where no one ever sees./ he one of the fastest human calculators in

|The strange thing is that I could never have theahonid)

{married a man whom I could own. You sve

; : Pe re It is said that the doctor recently obtained
that is the trouble with marriage. It is dirficult

to be r id of your husband.” a position w ith a lar ge concern and displaced
) ; I
than twenty workers and nearly as

adding machines.

- : : more
Louis Bromfield rises to the height of per- Ai

fection. He must be a careful writer in order wees 7
to have produced such excellent passages. He | He is capable of adding a column of fif-
is so realistic. You grow to love the book, so| teen figures in a quarter of a second, not
that when the book is finished you feel as if | appearing to look at the figures the while.
you have lost friends in the characters. The | On his arrival in this country a reporter
Green Bay Tree surpasses Twenty-Four Hours, ‘handed him a paper on which were three
by the same author, in its description, but it | | figures to be multiplied by three others. Dr.
hasn’t as much action as Twenty-Four Hours; | Finklestein, according to the New York

||

‘ » > ¥ > i 2
| ‘Times, sinmply glanced at the paper -and| Lima, Peru (IP) If students in the

| United States think they are the victims of
|

(IP )—-A_ letter

wrote down the correct answer, :
paternalism on the part of their college ad-
to look to this

much freedom they -ac-

ministrators, they have only

Dirham, N, GC; received! country to see how

by the alumni office of Duke University here ‘tually have.

| from Miss Helen Clark, a graduate of Duke.) Phe Peruvian government recently passed
| who joined the faculty of Soochow Univer eae regulating the private lives of students
[sits in China, related that the president of) jy colleges throughout the country as to per-

had to flee for},
their lives after threats from students of the |

| Soochow and his family have

sonal cleanliness and punctuality in attend-

| and attention to their studies.
campus, and
and _ political

stories inso-

ance
| University.

“The Miss Clark
{the expulsion of the strike leader who in aaa
i sulted President Yang the other day bees ause | lence to teachers are outlawed. Penalties for

| he refused to let, them have a mass meeting | violations of the rules range from suspen-
| sion for short periods to expulsion for good.

; smoking is forbidden on the
“is over! Rambling,
_| demonstrations,

politics, religious

trouble,” wrote,

improper and

|
(ducing class time.

|} “If only so much enthusiasm and patriot-

lism can be purged of its lawless elements | DEPUTATION ‘TO HOLD
and turned into constructice rather than de- | SERVICES
structive channels, then the China of the,

(Continued from page 1)

This deputation is brought to the David-
son campus every year by the Y. M. GC. A.
and through the courtesy of the seminary.
In the past years that they, have visited the
campus they have been exceptionally good
,and it is hoped that the student body will
result of an automobile accident last April, turn out and hear them as often as possible,
has Mass., resident for! as they will have a message for all. Those
$50,000 because of the injuries which she says} who have heard the Seminary deputations
have shortened her life. She is said to be | before know how good they always are, but
suffering from leukemia, an incurable dis-| to those of the College who have never heard
ease of the blood in which there is an excess| them it may be said that they are by far
of white corpuscles. the best to visit the campus during the year.

future will be the truly great nation that she
ought to be.”

sridgeport, Conn.—(IP)—Beatrice Christie,
pretty 20-year-old former Boston University |
co-ed who has only two years to live as a

sued a Somerville,
