THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 21, 1932

Rhodes Scholarships

Thre will be a competition for the Rhodes
Scholarships this year in every state: the 48
states will be divided into eight districts of
six states each: each state committee may
nominate two men to appear before the dis-
trict committee: a district committee will se-
lect from the 12 candidates appearing: before
it the best four to represent their states at
Oxford: a state may thus receive two schol-
arships or none, in accordance with the mer-
its of its candidates.

A Rhodes Scholarship is tenable at the
University of Oxford. An appointment is
made for two years in the first instance, but
a scholar may remain for a third year upon
presentation of a plan of study for that. pe-
riod satisfactory to his college and to the
Rhodes trustees.

A Rhodes Scholar may either postpone his
third year, returning to Oxford for it after
a period of work in the United States, or, in
a special case, may spend his third year in
post-graduate work in some other university
in Great Britain or on—the-continent of Eu-
rope. ~

In 1932 state elections will be held Decem-
ber 10 and district committees will meet. a
few days later. Applications are due not
later than October 22. These should be sent |
to the secretary of the state committee. Col-
leges and universities. should select their
candidates before October 15. Applications
must be in Dr. Vowles’ hands by October 8. |
Rhodes Scholars elected in December, 1932,
will enter Oxford in October, 1933, we

The stipend of a Rhodes Scholar is fixed at
£400 a year. No restriction is placed upon
‘a Rhodes Scholar’s choice of studies.

A candidate to be eligible must—(a) Be a
male citizen of the United States and unmar-
ried; (b) be between the ages of 19 and
25; (c) have-completed at least his Sopho-
more year at college. A candidate may ap-
ply either in the state in which he resides
or\in the one in which he has received at

least two years of his college education.
The qualities which will be considered in|
making the selection are: |
1, Literary and scholastic ability and at-|
tainments. |
ne e |
2. Qualities of manhood, truth, courage, |
devotion to duty, sympathy, kindliness, un-
selfishness and fellowship.
3. Exhibition of moral force of character
and of instincts to lead and to take an in-

terest in his schoolmates.

4. Physical vigor as shown by interest in
outdoor sports or in other ways.

Further information and application blanks
may inthis institution from
Prof. G. R. Vowles or fromthe secretary ‘of
the committee of selection in this state, Dr.
W. C. Davison,. Duke University, or from
President Frank Aydelotte, of Swarthmore
College, American Secretary to the Rhodes
Trustees, Swarthmore, Pa.

be obtained

LITERARY SOCIETIES

(Continued from page 1)

the Philanthropic Literary Society. Duncan
McBryde, the president, held order. He
opened the meeting by welcoming all vis-
itors and asking that they not consider them-
selves uninvited at any time that they wished
to attend a meeting of the club. A talk was
then made by Stuart Noblin, chief critic of
the society, on “The History and the Activi-
ties of the Phi.” In this, the speaker told
of old traditions and histories of the sociépy,
perhaps most interesting among which ‘be-
ing concerning the Napoleonic chandelier,
which hangs in the hall of the club. This
chandelier, which is crystal and in the style
of Adam, was formerly owned by a rich
gentlema nwho obtained it at the Chicago
World’s Fair in the last century. It was
made to’ be a replica of the one in Paris
under which Napoleon and Josephine were
married. As tonthe activities of the society,
the critic brought forward the fact that in
the recent past it has been almost wholly
the custom for the exercises of the club
to consist of talks exclusively, whereas, as
was originally intended, in the future pro-
grams will be put on consisting more of com+
positions in writing, such as essays and
Stories. - :

Professor C. K. Brown was the chief
speaker of the evening. He gave a most
interesting and enlightening talk on the pres-
ent political situation, more particularly con-
cerning the immediate campaign prospects
of the two parties.

It was stated that at the next meeting
invitations will be extended to new men.
Also, the feature speaker of the evening will
j be Major Rhett, the new head of the R. O.

T. C. department at thf college. This meet-
ing is looked forward to with a’ great deal
of interest on the part of the members,

HOUSE PARTIES

(Continued from page 1).
Statesville, N. C.; Polly Webb, Statesville,
N. C.; Frances Wagner, Statesville, N. C.;
Isabelle White, Concord, N. C.; Esther
Brown, Concord, N. C.; Caroline Bayne,
Selma, Ala.; Virginia Diamond, Charlotte,
N. C.; Frances Robinson, Charlotte, N. C.;
Julia Hefner, Charlotte, N. C.; Louise Mel-
chor, Mooresville, N. C.; Biddie Mattox,
Charlotte, N. C.; Margaret Sellars, Greens-
boro, N. C.; Katherine Bonnitz, Greensboro,
N. C.; Betty Hunter, Charlotte, N. C.; Ellen
Rich, Charlotte, N. C.; Evelyn Ritchie, Char-
lotte, N. C.; Eleanor Bell, Charlotte, N. C.

Kappa Sigma: Misses Margaret Gorrell,
Winston-Salem,:-N. C.; Mildred Brown, Char-
lotte, N. C.; Martha Johnston, Charlotte, N.
C.; Katherine Witherspoon, Greensboro, N.
C.; Cuttie Hall, Belmont, N. C.; Margaret
Hackney, Charlotte, N. C.; Katherine Reid,
Charlotte, N. C.

Kappa Alpha: Misses Mary Stewart
Spears, Chattahgoga, Tenn.; Amelia Webb,’
Charlotte, N. C4 Edith Lucas, Charlotte, N.
C.; Virginia Pegram, Charlotte, N. C.; Mir-
iam Cannon, Concord, N. C.; Elizabeth Odel,
Concord, N, C.; Ann Hoover, Concord, N. C.;
Eleanor Hayes, Charlotte, N. C.; Maria
Drane, Charlotte, N. C.; Betty Tate, Char-
lotte, N. C.; Helen Dwyer, Charlotte, N. C.;
May D. Marion, Charlotte, N. C.; Mary
Elizabeth Wakefield, Charlotte, N. C.; Flor-
ence Moffett, Charlotte, N. C.; Frances
Matheson, Charlotte, N. C.

Phi Delta Theta: Misses Mary Landis,
Lexington, Va.; Carrie Lena Moffett, David-
son, N. C.; Elizabeth Grey, Winston-Salem,
N. C.; Dorothy Hand, Charlotte, N. C.;

Agnes:Hunter, Charlotte, N. C.; Betty Smith,
Charlotte, N. C.; Dosty Blackman, Rock Hill,
S. C.; Margaret Gilliam, Charlotte, N. C,;
Lila Womble, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Bar-
bara--Witherspoon,—Greensboro,;- N;-€-;-~-Lois
Monroe, Charlotte, N: C.; Foster McMalan,
Charlotte, N. C.; Lib Potts, Charlotte, N. C.

CHANGES ARE MADE

(Continued from page 1)
class of officers wears them. This rule ap-
plies to Senior officers also. The Juniors are,
however, allowed to wear boots outside mili-
tary formations.

Phi Gamma Delta: Misses Tut Gorrell,
Greensboro, N. C.; Douggie Long, Greens- |
boro, N. C.} Mary Lib Cunningham, Greens- |
boro, N. C.; Edith Christian, Randolph Ma-!
con; Mary Guy, Charlotte, N. C.; Alva Guy, |
Charlotte, N. C.; Alice Cowls Barringer, |
Charlotte, N. C.; Mary Louise Means, Con-|
cord, N. C.; Mary McKay, Concord, N. C.;!
3everly Burgess, Greensboro, N. C.;. Mary!
| Grey Efird, Charlotte, N. C.; Chick Hall,|
Belmont, N. C.; Estelle Hall, Belmont, N. C.;|
Isabelle Mead, Jacksonville, Fla.; Louise!
Matthewson, Charlotte, N. C.; Dorothy B.|

Davidson, N. C.

Charlotte, N. C.; Lucile Armstrong, Belmont,

Henry, Concord, N. C.; Violet Propst, Con-|
cord, N. G |

Theta Upsilon Omega: Misses Alma Orr, |
Charlotte, N. C.; Ellen Hawkins, Charlotte,|
N. C.; Doris Helm, Charlotte, N. C,.5, Ruth
Amunkson, Charlotte, N. C.; Margaret Ash- |
craft, Charlotte, N. C.; Gertrude Ross, Con- |

Pauline McFayden, Concord, N. C.

Another change made by the local divi-
sion is that Juniors who are not assigned
as first sergeants are to act as guides of
units. This ruling was passed for the pur-
pose of raising the standard of drill of ‘the
battalion. It will also be an important fac-
tor in individual improvement so as to bet-
ter prepare the officers for competitive drill
in which the Davidson College unit will be
represented at the summer encampment of
k. O. T. C.

As everyone knows, Major John T. Rhett |
eceeds Colonel Scott as commanding offi- |

su

He will instruct all sections of Sophomore |

infantry, has charge of all sections of R. O.

tary Law and History. Sergeant Blanton
L. Burton and Sergeant Jasper L. Kirby}
will fulfill their duties same as they did last!
year, the former being storekeeper and prepa
erty officer and the latter administration |
clerk.

First year men will be instructed in the

drill and command,. rifle marksmanship, ex-

tended order, platoon drill and close order,
military courtesy and discipline, military hy-
giene and first aid, and scouting and patrol-
ling.
¥ Sophomores will study the following: drill
and command, ‘musketry, automatic rifle,
scouting and patrolling, combat principles.

Junior’-officers will be instructed in drill
and command, map reading and sketching,
combat principles, machine guns, and How-
itzer weapons.

Senior officers will take up drill and com-
mand, company administration, field engi-.
neering, military law and history, and tactics.

CHARLOTTE PASTOR

(Continued from page 1)

| fathers around now, and said that if they

had/been taught right in their youth they

Hines, Greensboro, N. C.; Daisy Caldwell,) cor of the Davidson College R. O. T. C. unit. | would never think of such a thing today.

Youth is the greatest and most profitable

Sigma Pi Epsilon: Misses Jean Delane,} Military Science and Tactics and will also| time of a man’s life and probably the most
‘Charlotte, N.. C.;)Harriet Baxter Moore,| he professor of, military history in R. O.| enjoyable for him to look back on, and he
Charlotte, N. C.; Betty Tompkins, Charlotte,!‘T, C—4.) Captain F. M. Cochran, infantry| should take care of his youth and not burn
N. C.; Elizabeth Allan, Charlotte, N. C.;) adjustant, will instruct all sections of R. O,{ himself out in his early thirties or late twen-
Martha Ware Pitts, Charlotte, Ni C.; Mary|T, C—1, and will also teach Military La | ties as numerous men have done in «years
Paine, Charlotte, N. C.; Katherine Crowell,)in R. O. T. C—4. Captain C. W. Seifert, | not long gone by.

Various other points too numerous to men-

N. C.; Ippi Carter, Charlotte, N. C.; Mabel] T, C—3 and R. O. T. C—4, except the Mili-| tion were brought out in his message and

he concluded his talk by pronotincing the
benediction.

The talk was a very interesting one from
the start to the very last and we want to
express our thanks to Dr. Gatrmon and to
the other pastors and men of Charlotte who
are so kind as to come here quite frequently

cord, N. C.; Nell Ross, Statesville, N. C.;| following tactics and sciences of military :| and deliver messages to the student body at

these “Y.-M.-C, A. vespers.”

Copr., 1982;
The American

and it is hoped that a large attendance of
visitors thay be had. |

|

Tubacco Co,

have n

world —but
explain w

They are not present in Luckies
... the mildest cigarette
you ever smoked

E buy the finest, the very
finest tobaccos in all the

where regar@ Lucky Strike as
the mildest cigarette. The fact
is, we never overlook the
truth that ‘“‘Nature in the
Raw is Seldom Mild’’—so

“If a man write a better book, preach a better sermon, or make a better mouse
build bis house in the woods, the world will make a beaten path to his door.
Does not this explain the world-wide acceptance and approval of Lucky Strike?

CUSTER’S LAST STAND

"Nature in the Raw”—as por-
trayed by the great painter of the :
American Indian, N. C. Wyeth’.:
inspired by the massacre of
Custer’s dauntless band at Little
Big Horn, Montana, by the savage
Sioux Indians, June 25, 1876.

—and raw tobaccos
in cigarettes

these fine tobaccos, after
proper aging and mellowing,
are then given the benefit of
that Lucky Strike purifying
process, described by the
words— “It’s toasted’’. That’s
why folks in every city, town
and hamlet say that Luckies

o place

that does not
. folks every-

are such mild

“It’s toasted”

That package of mild Luckies

trap than his neighbor, tho he
’!—-RALPH WALDO EMERSON.

cigarettes.

