BEAT
V. M. I.

Vol. XX

Che Mavidsonian

bertas

Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Li

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTO:

BER 12, 1932

W.C.U.N.C. STUDENTS
TO HOLD NEXT
VESPER SERVICES

No. 5

Annual Fall Services to
Be Conducted This Year
By Dr. Dwight Chalmers

Speaker Is Pastor of the First Presby-
terian Church in Charlottesville,
Virginia
GRADUATE OF DAVIDSON

Was Secretary of “Y” in Year After
His Graduation .

The annual fall Y. M. C. A. services. will
be held on the 13th, 14th, and 15th of No-
vember. The conductor of these services
will be Dr. Dwight M. Chalmers; pastor of
the First Presbyterian Church in Charlottes-
ville, Va.

Dr. Chalmers is a graduate of Davidson,
having attended here during the years 1916-
1920. He is also a graduate of the Union
Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va. Dr.
Chalmers was secretary of the Y. M. C. A.
in the year 1921 at Davidson, and therefore
is well acquainted with the workings of
the “Y,

He was for a number of years the pastor
at the “Church-by-the-Side-of-the-Road” in
Greensboro and was extremely popular
while there. Dr. Chalmers was the featured
speaker at the “Young People’s Conference”
here during June of last year and presented
a series of most inspiring and: instructive
talks to the assembled congregation.

Dr. Chalmers will be very happy to give
a personal interview to any who may desire
it during his visit here. He will speak at
church on October-t3;-that evening at “Y”
vespers, and twice Monday and Tuesday.

This series of “Fall Services” is an an-
nual affair, sponsored by the Young Men’s
Christian Association of Davidson College, |
and has long been an event of great inter- |
est and benefit to the students. |

In giving to the college these edifying |
talks each year, the Y. M. C, A. has done a
great work on the campus, and it will be

(Continued on page 6)

— [===

Ministerial Group Has
First Meeting of Year

The Ministerial Fellowship, formerly called
the Ministerial Band, held its ‘first ‘meeting
of the school year at the social, center/ Fri-
day-night, October “7, at “Which a goodly
number were present, most of them being
new men. Leslie Thompson, the president,
read a selection from the Bible, which ex-
pressed the charge of Christ to the minis-
ter, after which the group was led in prayer
by Courtney Ross and Woodrow Thrower.

Since no program had been planned, the
meeting took the form of a business dis-
cussion, First an introduction of both new
and, old men was made, and the officers,
namely, Leslie Thompson, president; Wood-
tow Thrower, vice-president, and Murphy
Smith, secretary and treasurer, who were
elected last spring at the meeting held on
April_23,..were-proclaimed to the new men.

Since the Y. M. C. A. has charge of the
deputation work, there is not much left for
this organization to do but to try to familiar-
ize ourselves with the popular problems of
the church and: ministers of today, and to
become edified in the art of speaking. There-
fore the programs will probably be in the
form of special speeches by some member
of the faculty and different members of the
fellowship, formal and informal debates, and
especially open forums, All of which wer
discussed at the last meeting. :

Dr. Gwynn to Broadcast

On Thursday morning, October 20,
_Dr. Price Gwynn will deliver an ad-
dress over radio station WBT, in Char-
lotte. The address will begin at 11:40
a.m. and end at 12 a. m. Dr. Gwynn’s
topic will be “The Home, the First
School of Religion.”

It is one of six talks to be given that
week by outstanding citizens of Char-
lotte and the “surrounding communi-

| ties. The purpose of this series of ad-
dresses is to further stress the impor-
tance of religion in the home. __

That Dr. Gwynn should be chosen
is a distinct honor to him and to Da- |
vidson College.

“

Boys’ Work of “Y” Is
Progressing Rapidly

The Boys’ Work Division of the Davidson
Y. M. C. A., under the supervision of Bruce
Peabody, has made excellent progress so far
and is looking forward to a most successful
year. Under this department seven. differ-
ent clubs are organized among the boys of
the community. Six of these are among the
whité boys, and one among~the negroes.

The work is divided under two main
heads, the “Hi-Y” work with Peabody in
charge, and the Scout work with C. R.
Wright in charge. Hi-Y clubs are already
functioning in Cornelius, under the leader-
ship of Paul Brown, and in Davidson under

the leadership of Bruce Peabody, Archie | -

Shuford, W. A. Merchant, and Bob Smith,
while still another is being formed in Hun-
tersville, which will be in charge of M. E.
Baggett, R. Forbis,..C. B. Ross, A. Js. Gil-
lespie, and W. B. Singleton. Three Scout
troops have been organized, one in Cornelius,
which is supervised by W. B. Ward, G. L.
Gullette, B. F. Ormand, Thompson, and J.
L, Drake, and two in Davidson, one for the
white boys, supervised by E. S. Hodge, R.
H. Page, Odi Cassali, Wood, and J. F. Fay,
and another for the negroes, supervised by
Rig Dees and Ed Garrett. Another is’ being
organized at Mt. Mourne. :

Another phase of this work is the boys’
athletics which is under the direction of Sam
Nickey and /Bill Matthews. ‘This work con-
sists of organizing and coaching the midget
football team at Davidson. This team is
made up of high school boys and plays other

(Continued on page 3)

Dr. James Hardie Talks
to Students at Vespers

Again last Sunday evening the Y. M. C. A.
presented a fine speaker, He was Dr. James
F. Hardie, pastor of the Second Presbyterian

|Church of Charlotte and former pastor of
the Second Presbyterian Church of Houston,

Texas.

The services were led by Lanier Pratt.

| Prayers were led by John Lake and Leland

McKeithan and Carlton Chapman offered a
vocal selection. The Scripture reading se-
lected for the text was Colossians 1:1-12,

The subject of Colossians, Dr. Hardie ex-
plained, is the. Ideal Christ. Christ is the
Ideal or Standard of our living and thinking.
Only Paul could portray Christ as He is
seen in this book,

‘The Ideal Christ as seen in Ephesians, Dr.
Hardie ‘continued to expound, lives arid di-
rects its life according to the Ideal Christ
of Colossians, If he were able to know a
man’s prayers, Dr. Hardie stated, he could
tell how true that man’s character was,
and he could tell the true feelings of that
man’s soul, for in a prayer a man is straight-
forward and frank, if he never is otherwise.
In the first of two great prayers of Ephe-
sians, Paul prays that our minds may be en-
lightened in order to know the hope of His
calling. This may mean that we should look
forward to each day to bring forth some-
thing-new- and better,-as did our Master.
Also this may mean that all of God’s great
doctrines were-revealed to man by His talks
with man, and we should look forward to

(Continued on page 6)

Debaters Will Try

for Places on Team

The tryouts for the Davidson debating
team are to be held Thursday, November 3.
The query is to be, “Resolved: That all com-
mercial banks should be national banks, and
a part of the Federal Reserve System.”

A large number are expected to compete
in the tryouts. There are usually between
thirty and forty men that respond to the
call for debating candidates. The speeches
usually consist of five-minute talks in which
one point is developed. Tryouts are judged
by five members of the faculty and are spon-
sored by the Forensic Council.

Leland McKeithan is the only old mem-
ber of last year’s debating team that is back
in school this year. Last year the Davidson
team-won eight of the nine debates, debating
against such schools as Bucknell University,
University of Florida, Emory;and other out-
standing schools. Good material from last
year’s Freshman team should add strength
to the one this year.

HONOR ROLL»

The following is a list of the men who
made the Honor Roll for the whole of last
year:

Senior Class

Bettis, E. S., 95.64; Enloe, R. P., 97.35;
Hand, L. N., 97.14; Harrison, C. W., 96.53;
MacLean, T. W., 97.35; Wiley, S. S., 97.74;
Carr, H. L., 96.14; Hancock, W. T., 96.16;
Hawkins, W. B., 95.04; McQueen, D. M.,
98.62; Matthews, W._H., 95.37; Spencer, C.
S., 95.72; Stephenson, D. G., 95.60; Welch,
J. T., 95.10; Mann, J. O., 96.10.

Junior Class
Bettis, C. E., 97:15; Brown, P. F., 96.64;
McBride, D. D., 95:58; McConnell, D. M.,
95.25; McNair, W. E., 95.54; Mullis, W. °F.,
96.61; Ward, W. B., 95.51; Shackelford, E.
W., 95.90; Paton, A., 96.55.

Sophomore Class
Blair, J. T., 96.05; Hellegers,
McGeachy, J. A., 98.23; Thompson,
Jr., 96.43; Thompson, W. M., 97.72.

Freshman Class
. Rhodes, *A. B., 95.55; Porter, R. M., 95.78;
Neill, W. C., 96.41; Johnston, Sara L., 97.08;
Hamilton, Lois Neal, 96.70; Exum, A., 96.52;
Douglas, J. M., Jr., 97.29; Coit, R. T., Jr.,
97.10.

F., 95.36;
Wee

Sunday Vespers to Be
Led by N.C.C.W Group

Y. M. C..A. vesper services next Sunday
twilt-be held by the -Y.-W.-G, A. of the
Women’s College of the University of North
Carolina, formerly known as North Carolina
College for Women. The services will be in
ithe charge of Miss A. V, Poe, president of
|the “Y” organization at W. C, U. N. C. The
| exercises, will be in the form of a ‘candle-
light/ service with tusical selections, vocal

part of the young ladies participating, in-
stead of the usual talk given by a featured
speaker. This type of ‘service has been pre-
sented at W. C. U.N. C. by its Y. W. C. A.
and has met with remarkable success. It is
given at Davidson in return for a deputa-
tion formed of Jack McKinnon and J. D,
MacConnell which the Y. M. C. A. sent to
| Greensboro last year. The prospect of this
| return deputation has provoked a great deal
| of interest among the student body,. and it
lis hoped that the large attendance in Cham-
bers next Sunday evening which is antici-
pated may be realized.

Statistics Indicate
Surprising Changes

Physical Measurements Reveal Stu-
dents Are Tale and Weigh
ess

According to statistics recently issued by
the Physical Education Department, the av-
erage Davidson student weighs one pound
less, and is almost one inch taller than the
average-student of the 1931-1932 session.
The figures below show~surprising differ-
ences in the weight and height of the
classes:

1931-1932 (Average)

Freshmen—Weight, 140 pounds;
5 feet, 8.7 inches.

Sophomores—Weight, 144 pounds; height,
5 feet, 8.7 inches,

Juniors—Weight,
feet, 9.1 inches.

Seniors—Weight, 147 pounds; height, 5
feet, 9.3 inches.

1932-1933 (Average)

Freshmen—Weight, 140.3 pounds; height,
5 feet 8.3 inches. :

Sophomores—Weight, 143.6 pounds; height,
5 feet, 10.2{inches.

Juniors—Weight, 144.2 pounds; height, 5
feet, 10.2 inches,

Seniors—Weight, 145.2 pounds; height, 5
feet, 10.3 inches,

Student body average, 1931-1932—Weight,
144.3 pounds; height, 5 feet, 9 inches.

Student body average, 1932-1933—Weight,
143.3 pounds; height, 5 feet, 9.7 inches.

The present Sophomore class average
shows an increase of 3.6 pounds in weight
and 1.5 inches in height. The average Junior
has gained two-tenths of a pound in weight
and 1.5 inches in height. The Senior aver-

(Continued on page 3)

height,

146 pounds, height, 5

jand Sustrumesital, and with readings on the}-

DAVIDSON OVERWHELMS WOFFORD
FOR SECOND WIN OF 1932 SEASON

Annual Tryouts Held
at Glee Club Meeting

On Monday evening of October 3rd the
Glee Club held its first meeting. Mr. Eugene
Craft, pianist and organist from Charlotte,
who is the new director of the Glee Club
this year, took charge of the tryouts. Ap-
proximately seventy-five men appeared and
from this number forty were selected. Later
the number will be reduced to thirty-two.
Practically ‘all of the old men were retained
and quite a few Freshmen were added.
Each man was put through a strenuous and
separate vocalizing test and only the best
were selected.

The second meeting was held on Wednes-
day night and those men who won iti”the
tryouts started working on the new pieces
for the coming year. The officers of the}
Glee Club-for the coming year are: W. W.}
Caligan, president; J. T. Blair, vice-presi-
dent; Leland McKeithan, business manager,
and Edward MeNair, pianist.

The Glee Club feels particularly fortunate |
in getting the services of Mr. Craft. He has}
shown himself to be a director of the first!
rank and a man of marked ability. He!
comes'to Davidson highly recommended and}
with wide ‘experience in choral work.’ The
Glee Club was also pleased with the’ num- |
ber of men that came out and expect a suc-
cessful season.

The following is a tentative list of the
members of the Glee Club, Only eight men!
will be selected for each part and therefore
is subject to revision at any time:

(Continued on page 6)

Rives, Powell, and Page
Take Over Court Duties

The three new members of the Court of
Control, Charley Rives, “Duck Powell and
Rufus Page, have been installed in their of-
fices and the Student
tioning smoothly.

|

Court «is now func-|

When school met the first of September
this year this court was confronted with the
absence of three of its members and‘an elec- |
tion was held to. take care of these ab-
sences. The court is a body whose duty!
is to settle all matters concerning Freshmen
relations to upperclassmen and to serve as}
a supervisory board for the new men.

Of these three men, two are Junior rep- |
resentatives, Powell and Rives, Powell is a
member of the Y. M.\C. A. Cabinet; Phi
Gamma Delta social fraternity, and was
president of his class last session. Rives is|
guard on the football team, is a member of
the Kappa Sigma social fraternity, and pres-|
ent secretary and treasurer of his class. |
Rufus Page, Sophomore representative, is .a|
member of the Beaver Club, honorary Soph- |
omore society for leadership.

The present members of the court of
which W. A. Flinn is judge, are as follows:
Seniors, D. M. Bernard, F. L. Dickerson, C.
R. Wright; Juniors, “Duck” Powell and
Charley Rives; Sophomores, DB. M, Hutch- |
ins and Rufus Page. f

Orchestra Nanie is

Selected by Burns

A..L. Burns won the five-dollar prize for!
giving the orchestra a new name, which is
“Reeves Pope and his Southernaires.” With}
over three hundred names submitted, the|
choice was a difficult one. This unique con- |
test was put om to help find a permanent!
name for. the orchestra. Last year it was)
changed twice, finally ending the season as|

““E. B. Robinson’s North Carolinians.” It is|

hoped by the members of the orchestra that)
the new name will be a lasting one. \

This year the orchestra is composed of
the following men: Henry Hodgin, piano;
Dave McLain, snare drum; Frank Tucker,
bass’ horn; W. W. Calligan, banjo; Reeves
Pope, the leader, first sax; Buddy Robin-
son, second sax; Sam Hines, third sax; Bob
Orr, trombone, and A. M. Cunningham;
trumpet. fi

The contest caused a lot of interest on
the campus. The check was presented to
the winner in chapel Tuesday morning.

, took

Swift and Evasive Attack Made Pos-
sible by Excellent Blocking and
Team Work

LONG RUNS THRILL FANS

Terriers’ Lone Tally Comes Shortly
After Second Half Begins

Last Friday afternoon ‘at Richardson Field
the Davidson Wildeats severely trounced the
Wofford Terriers by a score of 40 to 6. The
Wofford team was completely swamped by
the brilliant running—and_ passing attack of
the Wildcats. This swift and evasive attack
was made possible by the excellent interfer-
ence and teamwork of the whole squad. The
‘Cats played a fast, hard-hitting and hard-
running game throughout, although they did
not get started on their victory march until
the second quarter.

Wofford started the first quarter so brisk-
ly that it looked for a while as if it would
be a close gamer The ‘Cats were held at

| bay duriig the first quarter and at the end

of the half the Wildcats were leading by
13 to 0. Most of this was due largely to
the great punting of Bauknight, Terrier half-
back. All during this period the Wofford
aggregation 'staved menancingly in David-
sdn territory.

At the beginning of the second period the
Wildcats got started. When the quarter be-
gan the ball was on Davidson’s own 43-yard
Mackorell got through a hole at tackle
Then

line.
and made 11 yards and a first down.
Pearce found an opening and got away for
27 ¥ards more before he was downed by
a Wofford man on Wofford’s 17-yard line.

the ball and through tackle on
third down for a 14-yard gain. The Terriers
held Davidson for and Bauknight
kicked out, After a few plays a pass from
Mackorell to Morgan for an Il-yard gain
started Davidson down the field.

The first the came
when Pearce took the ball and eluded the
whole Wofford team to cross the goal line.
Mackorell kicked the extra point, making
the scére Davidson 7, Wofford 0,

cut

downs

touchdown of game

A few plays after the next kickoff, a pass
from Mackorell to Morris gained 32 vards
for the Wildcats and again the ’Cats start-
This play left the ball
After a few
Wingfield

ed on a rampage.
on -the Terriers’ 29-yard line.
futile attempts, Mackorell shot

/a pass and he gained 25 yards, leaving the

Wildcats 10 yards to go for a touchdown.
Davidson tried two line plunges which re-
sulted in only a gain of three yards. Mack-
orell then took the ball and spun outside of
tackle for Seven vards and a score. The

| placement kick was wide and the-seore-was

3 to 0 in favor of Davidson as the half

| ended.

The last half had.not. been going long be-
fore the Terriers, invested with new vigor,
started smashing the Davidson line on
straight plays: and after two first downs
were resting on Davidson’s eight-yard line.
Gault got five through left guard and Mun-
roe bucked the pigskin over the goal line,
but his try..for the extra point was blocked
by Jack Wagner. -

After the next kickoff the Wildcats put
the ball in scrimmage from their own 26-
yard line. Mills took the ball and shot down
the field, but was called back. and penalized
five yards for crawling. He made up for all

jhis bad breaks by cutting through a hole

and scampering 73 yards down the field be-

‘fore, being downed by Gault on Wofford’s

eight-yard line. Mills again took the ball
and circled left end for a touchdown. The

(Continued on page 6)

Patronize Our
Advertisers :

The Davidsonian takes this oppor-
tunity to ask the students of Davidson
to co-operate with us as far as pos-
sible in patronizing the establishments
which advertise in this paper. As this
d publi is dependent to a
large extent on the advertising which
we receive, we feel that the Davidson
students should make every effort to
co-operate with us in this respect. ne

. rs #3,
st

