THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 12, 1932

The DWavidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915,”

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cent copy; $2.00 the Col-
iate Year. Entered as second: class sities at the Post
ice, Davidson, North Caroli Y

Articles for publication must bein the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

Editor-in-Chief
Business Manager

EDWARD _O. GUERRANT.
A. M. MANSON.

EDITORIAL STAFF

L. W. CLARDY....,< M Edit

A, F. SCHENCK. psneging tor

yack: THOM pieneging fe
1 CASA cAthfetls Editor

Exchan; itor
Fe fe Faiter
Pubeucdueucolss wuucdclssbecuasdsuean ule Feature Editor

--Contributing Editor
eas wenee Prenat FLAY Editor

HORDE ES ee
DIPS, Sogh

itor
A Editor
A Editor
A Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
W. T. (OHNGON-- Assi Busi Manag
A. H. MANSON Assi: Busi Manager
ALVIN BAYER, JR... icitor
heed pan oe reirehead
: . OUGL. itor
G. L. GREEN t
W._P._ SPRUNT---: i
. R. TAYLOR... olicitor
. A. C. WADSWORTH licitor
. E. WHITE Li
_ REPORTERS’ CLUB
. E. LAKE:t. : President
. S. GAMBLE Vice-President
aad Ler der Secretary-Treasurer ©
+» W. ALDERMAN . L. McCLINTOCK
R. H. ALDERMAN Ww L. McILWINEN
G. E. BAILY E, F. McPHAIL
D. B. BAILEY W. C. NEILL
B. C. BARNE: W._L. NORTHE
. E. BOWERS Cc. E. NORVELL
. E. BOYD E. L. POWEL:
. H. COVINGTON S. P. PRESTON
S. K. EATON P. M. ROGERS
J. B. FICKLIN B. L, ROSE
G, L. GULLETTE T. H. SUTTON
Ace HELLINGER N. W. WALLACE
. C. HENRY K, D. WEEKS
‘ A. HUNTER W. R. WARD
. E. LORRAINE W._T. THOMPSON
T. F. D i W. WHITE
W. F. MULLISS . PRATT-THOMAS

OCTOBER 12, 1932
—_—_—————————haBBama>H™—X——S— —"
Of all the things which wisdom procures for the
happiness of life as a whole, by far the greatest is
the acquisition of friendship.—E picurus.
D.

THOUGHTS IN PASSING

With the paddle ball craze running wild, one al-
most takes his life in his hand to watk down dormi-
tory row. 4
D

We wish to congratulate both of the coaches and
the team in the splendid all-around exhibition of good

football which was displayed ‘against Wofford. It has

been a long time since a Davidson offense has clicked
so well.

D.

We are glad to see a continued good attend at
“Y” vespers. We feel safe in saying that those who
have attended have found it well worth their while.
D.

Wake Forest displayed power in defeating South
Carolina. They will be a hard team to beat, but this
fact should make the ’Cats fight all the harder when
we meet them next month here on our own field.
D————_ 3

The running of Wingfield, Mills, Pearce, Fleagle,
Mackorell, and Wilson was very pretty to see in the
Wofford game. It has been many a year since Da-
vidson has had such an array of backfield talent as
we have this year, and it certainly is being used to
good advantage.

——__ DP —__..

Many North Carolina fans were surprised to see
Auburn beat Duke. ~From all indications Auburn is
headed for a season like they were accustomed to
have fifteen years ago.

CD.

Among other gridiron surprises this week were the
victories of Michigan over Northwestern and the tie
between St. Mary’s and California. During this past
summer Golden Bear supporters freely predicted that
their eleven would be tthe team chosen to uphold \the
honor of the West on New Year’s Day in the Rose
Bowl at Pasadena, but we doubt if this will be the
case now, as they have been defeated once before
this tie.

D.

Professional football was played in Charlotte for
the first time last Saturday night when Johnny
Branch, ex-Carolina star, led his team to victory over
another eleven-composed of hired players.

—_—____ D_____._.

With the completion of the first reviews and the
sending out of reports soon we feel that college is at
last in full swing.

——_-D

Because of the showing of the team in the last
game we should not become over-confident. We have
a difficult schedule and still have some hard teams

to face, particularly Clemson, N. C. State, Carolitia;

and Wake Forest. Also we cértainly cannot consider
V. M. I. and Citadel as pushovers. :
PETRIE AGS , Reena, :

Anyone who is planning to build a terfnis court has
the problem of cost and of upkeep to consider. After
taking statistics on a great many -high school: ath-
letic association tennis courts, it has been found that
although clay courts are cheaper in initial cost, the
concrete courts have no.upkeep, so in the long run

the concrete ones are cheaper.’ In addition, the con-
crete courts are able to be used earlier in the spring

and are not as greatly affected by weather conditions.

OPEN FORUM

WORLD SPECTATOR

I SAW

Editor’s Note: The views expressed in
this column are not necessarily those of

The Davidsonian, and we will gladly run
any article handed to us which we deem
advisable to print.

Since there are many conflicting views about
the Presidential election this fall, and since the
editor of “Thoughts in Passing” has extended
such an invitation for an article of this sort,
I shall in brief words express the opinion of
what I believe will be the sentiment of the ma-
jority of the voters on November 8th. Of
course I express the minority view of this
campus and normally that of North Carolina—
always of South Carolina.

We who live in the South usually see a dem-

ocratic President elected about this|time every
four years. Is it because of newspaper propa-
ganda and demagogery of mud-slinging poli-
ticians who attack every sound economic pro-
posal made by that administration which has
and will continue to pilot this country safely
through one of the most severe crises in his-
tory? Is it right that we should elect a new
. President merely because a diseased and dis-
contented element desires a change? This is
a time for clear thinking and straight speak-
ing, and not for honeyed words, promises and
political ballyhoo.

The Republican candidate is not putting on
a’road show for re-election.» Its candidate is
not speaking in every section of the country,

_ promising such relief as is needed in that par-

ticular section. Neither is bidding for the
support of these radicals and waywards, often
called “sons of wild jakasses.” Governor
Roosevelt has shown this inclination through-
out his tour of the West. Attempting always
to please such notables as Long, Wheeler, Dill,
Norris, and Johnston. His farm relief speech
at Topeka was, if possible, the vaguest and
weakest of his talks.
at. He claims to hail from a farm, when ir
reality it is a typical Hudson River country
estate, which as someone has said, “grows
enough vegetables for home consumption, and
enough hay to feed the cows to furnish the
milk for the family and where he gets the corn
to feed the chickens to supply the needs of
his estate with eggs, I do not know, but prob-
ably from Topeka.”

On other issues he has never made himself
clear, There is doubt and ambiguity as to
where he stands on such vital and important
issues as the bonus,.sales.tax;.dole,.and duty

{~ on sugar and presumably on copper, oil, lum-

ber, and coal.

Does this governor of New York, who has
had an easy time in the governor’s chair fol-
lawing in the footsteps of his illustrious prede-
cessor, Alfred E. Smith, who had already in-
stittited far-reaching reform, owing to his in-
timate knowledge of state affairs, think that
he can fool the American republic? If so, he
will be bitterly disappointed on November 8th.

G. O. P.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

University of North Carolina

Our friends, the University of North Carolina-Tar
Heels, seem to have the erroneous idea that Davidson
will be the vanquished when the sun has set on Rich-
ardson Field on the afternoon of November 12, 1932.
“The Daily Tarheel” gives us the following Opinion:
“Right now it looks as if it will be a long time before
the Tarheels take a game. Georgia, Tennessee, Tech,
State, Duke, and Florida are not easy meat for any-
body and Davidson and Virginia may spring a sur-
prise.” Here's hoping ‘that they are wrong in this
opinion that we are to go down in defeat. However,
Carolina is no set-up as indicated by the strong
words of praise that were given them by Dan Mc-
Gugin, Vandy coach, and some of the Vandy players.

Wesleyan :
From out of the good state of Georgia (pronounced
Gawga by all good Southerners) comes this rather
~humorous poem, called “Latih Gone Modefnistic.”

“Boyibus kissabus sweet girl-orem
Girlibus likeibus, wantis someorum
Poppabus hearibus sweet kissorum
Kickobus boyibus out-a-the doororum.”

Perhaps this was Isham Jones’ sentimental gentle-
man from Georgia in action.

Georgia Tech
Down at Tech the student body rooting section has
adopted the card display to aid.in the cheering. This
card display system is much in vogue. out on the
Pacific Coast with the University of California and
the University of Southern California. Ramble them
around Tech, ; }

Washington and Lee

The Generals suffered two mishaps in their game
with Davidson that will be detrimental to their future
success. Two of their star players, Boland and Ruff-
ner, -Boland, a guard, broke his leg and will be out
all the-rest-of the season. Ruffner, a center, tore a
ligament in his knee and will be out of the game for
four or five weeks.

It is not to be wondered -

The University of Maryland, like Davidson, gives
a‘course in R. O. T. C. which is required of Fresh-
men and Sophomores. Two students, Ennis Coale
and Wayne Lees, have refused to take the course,
saying that they were “conscientious objectors” and
that military training was against their religious
views. Since they. refuse to enroll for this course,
the two boys have been given their notice of suspen-
sion. The boys_are_now wanting the university to
refund all their tuition, even though they have used
up part of it in board and room rent. They are at

_present preparing their case to present to the trus-

tees in order to have their tuition refunded.

A railroad crew was digging-at a grade crossing
and came upon an interesting. bundle. It was about
ten old whiskey bottles and the remnants of an old
military coat. The buttons from the coat bore the
inscription, “King George, III,” and one of the bottles
had the word “London” on it. The bottles were empty,
because the corks had decayed and allowed the whis-
key to evaporate.

A report from St. Denis, France, states that Pierre
Degayter, composer of the “Internationale,” the fa-
mous Communist song, is dead. He had, up to the
time of his death, been honored by the Soviet and
had been supported in his old age by that govern-
ment. Degayter was a wood carver and became fa-
mous when he set the words of a poem by Eugene
Pottier to music, calling it the “Internationale.”

Mr. Denver M. Wright plans to go lion hunting,
but thinks Africa-is too far away. Therefore Mr.
Wright, a Missouri manufacturer, has bought two
full-grown lions from a stranded circus and is going
to take them into a secluded section of Missouri and
release them. He and his friends, armed with high-
powered rifles, will then go out and hunt the lions
down. People have asked the sportsman what he will
do if he cannot find the lions and they are free to
toam all over the country, probably with danger to
other animals and even humans. Mr. Wright has not

answered this question, but goes on with his plans

for a lion hunt in Missouri.

Recently a New York night club put an advertise-
ment in the paper for a genuine nobleman who would
be willing to work in the night club for forty dollars
per week as a host and secretary. The office of the
club was soon flooded with noblemen, princes, counts,
earls, dukes, and lords. In all there were a hundred
applicants for the job, some well dressed, others shab-
by in their appearance. The manager who interviewed
the group learned a great deal of history, genealogy,
and modern economic and political changes. The
manager of the club. gave his reason for wanting a
nobleman: he wanted his club to be different, and to
have an attraction not found in the other night clubs.

Mussolini, the dictator of Italy, was recently fined
about twenty-six cents at a rifle tournament for not
opening the breech block of his rifle when he was
through firing. During the tournament the premier
tried his hand at shooting and fired twenty-five shots,
twelve of which were bulls eyes. When he was
through firing, he arose without opening the breech

“of his rifle. He-paid the fine without comment.

The New York police arrested about seventy men
for vagrancy several nights ago. Among the prison-

} ers was a man who claimed that he was heir to $20,-

000 in England, but that he could not get to England
to claim it. Therefore he was jobless and hungry
because he was unable to get to his estate. He claimed

PERSEVERANCE

Perseverance is the key. word to the success
of every man of today. Four hundred and
forty years ago, on the night of October 11th,
three tiny ships were beating their way across
an uncharted sea. Mutiny had broken out
among the crew, and they demanded that the
admiral turn back. A less determined spirit
would have quailed before their advance; but
not Columbus.

Thus, on this eventful night did this grizzled
old seaman hold at bay these fierce and treach-
erous hearts—hold them at bay until the first
light of dawn revealed a long, low shore line
just ahead, and the cry of “Land!
sounded on the morning air of the long-to-be-
remembered day—Friday, October 12, 1492.

Christopher Columbus had discovered a new
world—had won for himself great. honors and
immortal fame, simply because he would not
turn back.

It makes no difference where you start; it
is the finish that counts. It makes nq differ-
ence how you start when you come to college,
or what you are then, but if you persevere dili-
gently and keep your eye straight forward
you will gain the goal of your desires. nf

This is not only true in college life, but in
the life after you get out into the world. Co-
lumbus: would have undoubtedly made a fine
business man, because he would not give up

- or turn back. Some people say there are no

opportunities today for the man who has to
make his way in the world. Big business men
are today, more than ever before, simply com-
bining their organizations for men to_build on.
Business is developing so rapidly that it is al-
most impossible to develop men fast enough
for the bigger positions. | __
LYMAN W. CLARDY.,

Land!”

... a number of folks speculating as to who writes
this column, I'll tell you this much, I have assistants
who keep me informed as to what’s going on and you
have no idea how many things I know that I can’t
téll, I wrote about a few things I knew last week
and then my column was cut in half. So you know
a portion of my uncanny knowledge. Even though
I don’t like to do it, I have to keep from telling you
many things. So many requests come in to suppress
news and I am such a sympathetic creature.

... Brass. MacConnell’s dog follow him into chapel
unobserved by his master Monday morning. I heard
that this is one pf the smartest dogs imaginable and
it is not only a pet ‘of Brass but also a favorite with
the whole family.

... Joe Bryant arguing a political question with ,
Paul Brown as they came back from dinner ‘Thurs-
day. I hear that Joe has just studied the subject un-
dér discussion in History that morning and was tell-
ing Paul what he thought about the matter.

. the paddle ball craze take the campus by
storm. It looks now that everybody has bought a
paddle ball. If the fad continues maybe we can per-
suade the faculty to have a chair of paddle ball. By
rights we ought to have at least one crip course here
in college.

. about 20 students riding bicycles one after-
noon last week out on Richardson Field. No, the col-
lege hasn't gone mad over bicycling. It was just Pete
Whittle. giving the boys a workout by having them
lie down on their backs and paddle with their legs.

. Sonny Hengeveld kick his new football his
father gave him and then ‘run and fall on it. You
ought to go over ‘and watch him some afternoon.
He is a sight. Of course you could expect nothing
less of Mr. Hengeveld’s boy. He will probably turn
out to be a great baseball player like his father. Like
father, like son.

... Honeysuckle, efficient janitor, yodler, and gen-
eral handy man, turn in the names he suggested for
Reeves Pope’s orchestra. A prize of $5.00 goes to-the
winner and Honeysuckle has been caught-more than
once taking out the rabbit foot he keeps in his pocket.

. . . Mac Manson and Tom Boles discussing that
ever-fascinating subject of golf. Mac said, “Look: at
my pair of golf socks.” “Golf socks,” questioned Tom.
The other replied, “Yes, eighteen holes.”

For fear that some of the column will be cut out,
I am ‘ending the chatter this week with L’Allegro,
apologies to John Milton. Some of my items are sure
to be omitted and this will take up the necessary
space. It is “Invitation Au Bal.” I hope you like it!

Haste thee, Nymph, and bring with thee

Little case called vanity,

File for nails and shammy skin,

(Powderéd nose is not a sin),

Plaster white and beauty spot

Changing you to what you're not,

Dental polish, cream provide

Danderine and Herpicide,

Modest looks and coy assume,

Pencil brows.and_-strong perfume,

Curling tongs for blondine hair,

Female tricks so debonair,

Blushes—twenty cents apiece—
“Creamy ones with deep cerise,

Such as used by Geraldine,

Beauty’s charm is what’s unseen,

These your natural charms enhance,

Make you stunning at a dance,

Come and*trip it as you go

O’re your partner’s pained toe;

All these charms if you'll display,

Maid, with thee I'll gladly stay.

—Harvard Lampoon.
TIP POFF,

that he had tried to. get help from the British con-
sulate, but was refused because he had taken out his
naturalization papers to become a citizen of the
United States. What is to be done with him is not
yet.-known.

The Bank of France has finally completed its vault
underneath the city of Paris. This vast cavern is
ninety feet below the surface of the ground, cut out
of solid rock, and reinforced with concrete and steel.
It is a self-sustaining unit, so that in case of the cap-
ture of Paris, the French bank will still be intact and
can remain so for two and a half months. The vault
is bomb proof_and cannot be gotten into without
months of drilling unless, the secrets of the passage-
ways are known. The air is brought into the vaults
through special zig-zag ventilation tubes with electric
fans. In case poison gas is put into the entrances
to these tubes, the fans will reverse and blow the
poison fumes out. The air is filtered, warmed to the
correct temperature, and moistened to the correct

«humidity.

The vaults are connected to a huge underground
kitchen which has supplies for feeding the bank per-
sonnel for:eighty days.. There ase also dormitories
for the bank clerks and every convenience is provided.
In the vaults proper are stored eighty billion francs
of gold, and im case of war, a great many priceless
paintings and pieces of art are to be brought from
the Louvre to be kept safely in-a portion of the vault
assigned to them. There is one secret of the vault
which only two living people know. That is the se-
cret escape passage, through which the bank clerks
could escape as a last resort it ithe enemy succeeded
in breaking through the thirty yards of rock.
