THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 26, 1932

Students Considered as
__. Adults by Chicago Univ.

Average on Examinations Improved
by Novel. System Recently
Introduced

s

Chicago—The University of Chicago has
found, after one year’s operation -of its new
educational plan, that “making pupils into
scholars” is not difficult if they are treated
as adults.

This -is. the sentiment of Dean Chauncey
S. Boucher fh his resume of the new plan’s
results. “The first year of the experiment,”
he says, “has met with a degree of success
even greater than’ we had-dared hope for.”

Distinguishing features of the new plan,
given nation-wide attention a year ago, are
the abandonment of raqutine requirements in
‘terms of ‘course credits’ and grade points,
voluntary rather than required class atfend-
ance, and comprehensive examinations only
at the close of the year rather than periodic
quizzes on factual material.

Some of the results of June examinations
now disclosed by Dean Boucher in bearing
‘out his belief in the effectiveness of the new
scheme are:

In the comprehensive examinations in four
courses the proportion of failure ranged
from 8 per cent to 12 per cent, with only
5 per cent of the students rating lowly
enough to be denied further pursuit of the
courses, This is virtually the same percent-
age of failures as obtained in previous years
under the “standard” system.

Fourteen students were able to pass one
or more of the examinations without “tak-
ing” the courses which led up to them; six-
teen passed after taking only one of the
normal thrée-quartérs of formal study, and
47 passed after taking two of the usual three-
quarters,

Of these unusual cases, eigHt examinations
won grades of A” and 25 attained “B” rank-
ings.

One student passed all four of the com-
prehensive examinations after only twelve
weeks of formal residence; two students
passed three examinations after 24 weeks,
one of them getting grades of A-B-B.

Another unanticipated result of the plan
was that students attracted to the univer-

Cal Kuykendall

The student body has observed re-
cently with great pleasure that Cal
Kuykendall, who graduated last year,
is back again in Davidson. Cal, a
promi and popul. ber of the
class of 1932 and a member of the var-
sity football squad, has returned to
manage the new Ivey branch: store
opened here a few weeks ago, All of
Cal’s friends are certainly glad to have
him with us again, and he seems to
have had a great many visitors in
Ivey’s lately. It is hoped that his wel-
come on the campus has been teri-

The Silver Screen

Wednesday and Thursday, Oct. 26-27—Down
To Earth—(Fox)

Will Rogéts, the cowboy -philosopher, as
a millionaire oil magnate goes bankrupt only
to find that simple living is the most pleas-
ant.

Rogers has his usual supply of amusing
wise-cracks which he delivers with charac-
teristic charm and also: manages to include
some very comforting depression philosophy.

Trene Rich and Matty Kemp very capably
support him as wife and son, respectively.

* $9 ong

Friday, Oct. 28—The Ph Pr
(Paramount)

A group of political manipulators who can
elect the president, pick out a statesman
(George M. Cohan), and plan to elect him
by the antics of a showman (also George
Céhan), whom they find to have a’striking
resemblance to the statesman. The show-
man personality of the candidate interferes
to-such an extent in the amorous affdirs of
the statesman that the latter decides to have
the former shanghaied. Then the-real com-
plications set in. In the end everything
works out satisfactorily, however, and
Claudette Colbert becomes first lady of the
land and Jimmy Durante does the nation
a great service by shouting over the radio:
“A depression is a hole, a hole is nothing,
and why should I waste my time talking
about nothing?”

George M. Cohan, not an actor by pro-
fession, carries his part unusually well sim-
ply by his sincerity. “Schnozzle” Durante
for the first time gets a really big part and
takes full advantage of it.

The picture, an unusual combination of
farce and cutting political satire, is obvious-
ly similar to George S. Kaufman’s “Of Thee
I Sing,”

Saturday, Oct. 29—Hot Saturday—(Para-
mount)

Nancy Carrol’s brand-new right
off the griddle in~Hollywood.

This isthe story of a rather reckless young
girl who wanted to play life for all it was
worth. Carrol is supported by Gary Grant
and Randolph Scott.

picture

Monday and Tuesday, Oct. 31-Nov. 1—Movie
Crazy—(Paramount)

Harold Lloyd is-back and with a bang.
However, it’s the same old ‘“Grandma’s
Boy” and the story is the same type in
which he has always excelled.

The story is another one—of—the—search
for Hollywood-fame which furnishes a back-
ground for Harold’s burst of comic speed.

The picture marks an advance in the use
of comedy dialogue. If there is any change
in Lloyd's style it is probably a ain smooth-
er. The female leads are excéllently played
by Constance Cummings and a mysterious
Spanish peacherino whose identity is with-
held until the end of the picture.

ally satisfactory and that the student
body will continue to give him real
support. :

sity by the innovatiom proved to be 10 per
cent higher in scholastic aptitude tests given
at the time of their entrance than the aver-
age for the three previous entering classes.

GEO. LAPITZ
Factory Representative

oo

SEE THE ...STAR DIRECT
Tailoring Display
EVERY-THWRSDAY ... at
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP.

mm)

B. O, RAVENEL
Student Representative

@.
i ye

y

© PDabidson

Theatre ©

Jeff Robbins.

It has been reported from the hos-
pital in Winston-Salem that Jeff Rob-
bins, who was injured in an automo-
bile accident near Madison, N. C., while
returning from the V. M. I.-Davidson
game at Lexington, Va., has recovered
to such an extent as to be out of se-
rious danger. His condition, however,
prevents his being moved so that an
X-ray may be taken.

T. Hooke WicCallie, injured in the
same accident, is back at school again.
The other Davidson men in the car
escaped injury. Buck Petree, the negro
who was driving the other. car, was
fatally injured and died soon after the
accident.

The collision occurred about seven
miles south of Madison, N. C. The
slippery pavement was given as the
cause of the wreck, as the cars skid-
ded into an unavoidable accident.

McCallie and Robbins were taken to
Winston-Salem in an ambulance which
had been summoned. It is feared that
Robbins will be unable to return to
school this semester, but his recovery
so far has been very encouraging.

Davidson Five and
Ten Years Ago

TEN YEARS AGO

October 26, 1922. Before a madly cheering
crowd those scrapping Wildcats came out
against overwhelming odds and held the
powerful Virginia Tech eleven to a 7-7 tié
on Sprunt Field’ last Saturday afternoon.

Before the Wildcat Glee Club is able to

necessary to have all men hold a grand pow-
wow within the portals‘ of Shearer Hall.
This antique edifice has undergone such
struggles for many moons, and, is destined
to do so for many more. The exact date
of the meeting will be announced‘ later.

Mr. Malcolm Lockhart, chairman of the
Davidson Campaign Committee, was the in-
spiring speaker at the Y. M. C. A. meeting
held in Shearer Hall: last Sunday evening.

FIVE YEARS AGO

October 28, 1927. The Davidson College
Wildcats, after having had their claws some-
what dulled from fighting the Demon Dea-

SPN"
$$$

been suffering a manicure this week in prep-
aration for one of the biggest tilts of the
season when they meet the Cadets of V.
M. I. on Richardson Field, in the feature
of the annual Home-Coming Day.

When Captain Dick Grey enters the game
against V._M. I. tomorrow, it will be the
twenty-sixth time that he has played on
Davidson’s varsity. For three years he has
thrilled crowds throughout the South by
demonstrations of his triple-threat ability.

Tonight, Charlie Paddock, the fastest hu-
man on earth, will speak in Shearer Hall
on the subject of “Playing the Game.” Pad-
dock is brought here under the auspices
of the Davidson Y. M. C. A., and will prob-
ably appear on the cinder track for an exhi-
bition’ some time this afternoon.

|cons of Wake Forest last Saturday, have

break; forth in melodious monstrosities, it is

*
“DRUGS”... “SODAS”
Make Our Store Your Store

Student Supplies

WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.
“PRESCRIPTIONS”. “SUNDRIES”

Anion Theological Seminary
Richmond, Virginia
B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., LL.D., President

A graduate of Davidson and of Union studying abroad writes:

“There are able scholars here whose books are known and read
all over the religious world. None of them can surpass some of our
professors at Union as teachers, and none of them can. challenge a
student to joyous, practical Christianity as did our professors there.”

You dont Need to Pay fa
Prices -- joe Corect Stationery

ney

HIS note paper
is correct for informal correspondence. We
have supplied it faf18 years to many of Amer-
ica’s most prominent families. It has been a
favorite also among college men and women.

With the introduction of the new ‘450 Pack-
age” the cost of this fine note paper is made
lower than ever. It actually costs less than cheap
Stationery.

It's the same style note paper. we have sold
for 18 years—same printed name and address—
same prompt delivery — same-price. But the
quantity is 50% greater!

Send one dollar ( $1.10 west of Denver and
outside of U.S.) and get one of the biggest
bargains in fine merchandise offered in Amer-
ica, Your package printed and on its way to
you within 3 days of receipt of your order. No
_8gents or dealers. Sold by mail only. Absolute
satisfaction guaranteed,

sd

300 Note Sheets. burns /) 200
150 Envelopes .. former!) 100

450 Pieces Turmerly 300

MM Printed usth your
Name and Address

Ss BOO

POSTPAID

WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY

“DOWN TO EARTH” |
WILL ROGERS—DOROTHY JORDAN |

FRIDAY ? \v/

“THE PHANTOM PRESIDENT”
GEORGE M. COHAN—CLAUDETTE COLBERT—

_ THE NEW __
450 PACKAGE’

You can’t buy any stationery at any price better suited
to your informal correspondence than the-new ‘'450
Package.” Itis correct note sheet size, 6’x 7". The quality
is actually better than found in many boxes of high-
priced stationery.

__ Give American Stationery for Christmas, It’s a better

m7 JIMMY DURANTE f* gift than eve : up your list now and have
Vy ATURDAY ; Sarath: od thoughthally, PPIs done— early, economically —
oy on or. ATURDAY” Ay ae THE AMERICAN STATIONERY COMPANY
" S THE AMERICAN STATIONERY CO. | “iso sunonea ey eit ste it $1 fot a box of
= MOND AY AND TUESDAY oe" Origizater & Werld’s Largest Manufacturer of Printed Nott Paper 1 Note Paper below. ($1.10 west of Denver and outside of U. Ss)
“MOVIE CRAZY” fh 700 PARK AVENUE Name.
Address—_

—HAROLD LLOYD

PERU, IND. -

" — , - : =

e
Oy x

>

<a FRM

sy
