THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 9, 1932

Incomplete Returns Show Over Half
of Student Body Had Relatives Here During the Coming Week

Questionnaires Continue to Be Filed
With Alumni Office. Beaver Club
Is Helping to Make Poll
Complete

OTHER DATA PREPARED

Statistics Show Students Have 142
Brothers Either Enrolled Now or
Preceding Them

Returns are still coming in to the alumni
office from the poll being made of the present
student body to ascertain the relatives that pre-
ceded them, why they came to Davidson, and
who influenced them. The Beaver Club, progeny
of Omicron Delta Kappa fraternity, is this
week assisting the secretary in further gather-
ing data so that complete and accurate data
might be assembled,

On the basis of incomplete returns Monday
night, it was learned that over 51 per cent of
the students who haye returned their blanks
filled out have had relatives in Davidson prior
to their entrance here, and it is believed by
alumni officials that this percentage will be
altered but slightly when the remaining blanks
are received and tabulated.

It is interesting that some members of the
fourth generation are now enrolled at Davidson,
and a report made in last week's issue of The
Davidsonian revealed that 64 of the students
have had fathers here.

No attempt has been made to prepare data.
on the reasons why the students chose Davidson
as their college, though a predominating num-
ber of the answers will be highly complimen-

a

Although he chose to give another: an-
swer as to the reason why he came to
Davidson, one of the students might have
given the following reasons:

Both grandfathers.

His father.

Five great-uncles.

Four uncles.

Ten cousins.

All of these, he said, came to Davidson,
and added, “I have many other cousins
who were enrolled here whom I can’t re-
member, and neither does my “father.”

This particular student also has a first
cousin in the present student body.

It is believed that this tecord of 22
relatives willot be broken by any other
member of the student body.

tary to Davidson. Neither will information be
prepared as to who influenced them until all
of the reports are in the alumni office.

Last Monday the alumni secretary went over
the present registration at Davidson, and found
that 142 -brothers of members of the student
body are éither enrolled at Davidson at the
present time, or have preceded them. In this 142
are 19 sets of brothers now at Davidson. Ex-
cluding these, it means that 104 brothers of the
present students have already left Davidson.

One of the students has had five brothers
ahead of him, one of them has had three, eleven
of them have had two each, and the remaining
74 have had only one. Twenty-eight of the
Seniors have had 31 brothers here; 23 of the
Juniors have had a similar number; 21 of the
Sophomores have had 23 brothers, and 15 of the
Freshmen have had 19 ahead of them. None of
the latter includes the sets of brothers.

*

/
( on Gr

naplele Service

I Publications

| foot & how
|

Davidson 6 Years Ago
March 11, 1926

Mr. F. L. Jackson, treasurer and professor
of Davidson College, will be speaker at “Y”
vespers on next Sunday, March 14th.

W. R. (Dick) Grey, Jr., of Davidson, N. C.,
popular athlete and student, has been elected
to the position of secretary and treasurer of
the student body. His competitor was Mutt
Nesbit.

At an election last Monday, W. R. Story,
of Marion, N. C., was elected cheer leader
for next year, over C. W. Williams, of Mont-
gomery, Ala.

Harllee Branch and Don Wharton will rep-
resent Davidson against Sewanee and Clancy
Williams and Yancy Bowie will meet V. P. T.,
according to the results of the varsity debat-
ing preliminaries held Tuesday night.

A. Franklin Frickler, secretary of the class
of ’21, has recently sent out circular letters to
the members of the class announcing the first
reunion of the class to be held at commence-
ment this year.

|

Davidson 9 Years Ago
March 15, 1923

Junior Speaking this year promises to be a
“blaze of glory,” for there ought to be enough
“fire” on the hill to make the Chambers con-
flagration sink into oblivion by comparison.

Guy Weeks, of Davidson College, presided
over the twelfth annual North Carolina Student
Volunteer Movement: in a
which was held at N. ¢
leigh, N. C.

three-day session
*. State College in Ra-

The Blue Pencil Chapter of Sigma Upsilon,
national literary fraternity, has issued bids to
the following men: R. R. Jones, W. F. Gal-
loway, W. M. Heston and L. D. Elkins.

Henry McNair is so fast in the dashes that
he finds it nécessary to wear a football uni-
form in practice to keep from flying.

| Quite a number of the students insist on let-
ting everyone know they're from the country
by patting their feet during the playing of a
musical number or the singing of a hymn in
chapel.

Davidson 15 Years Ago
March 7, 1917

The following men were selected at the Junior
oratorical contest to be the commencement
speakers :

Phi—W. C.,.Cumming, J.
Thames.

Eu—G. C. Bellingrath, L. A. Chambliss, W.
G. Humphrey.

L. Fowle, J. A.

Mr. Robert Smallwood, of New York, was a
visitor recently on the hill fora few days in
th einterest of the new gymnasium, of which
he is the architect.

Le

D. W. Roberts will lead Christian Endeavor
Sunday night.

L. A. Chambliss was unanimously elected ed-
itor-in-chief for the 1918 volume of Quips and
Cranks,

| Alumni Meetings Planned
For Three Eastern Cities

Definite Information Has Been Re-
ceived About Dinners in New York
and Philadelphia, on March 16
and 17, Respectively

DR. J. W. MacCONNELL TO GO

Other Meeting Scheduled for Balti-
more on March 18th. Many Alumni
Will Be Accessible

Definite arrangements have already been com-
pleted for two of three alumni meetings in
eastern cities next week, and while no informa-
the alumni
office regarding the Baltimore meeting,. it is

tion has been received by local

believed here that officers of the chapter are
proceeding with the arrangements and _ invita-
tions to alumni of that vicinity.

The two definitely arranged are to be in New
York and Philadelphia. Notices have been sent
to 130 alumni in the metropolis and its suburbs
that the annual dinner will be at the Hotel La-
Salle, 30 EF. 60th St., at 7 p. m., Wednesday,
March 16th, and that the Philadelphia dinner
will be in the grill room of the Hotel Ritten-
house, 22nd and Chestnut Streets, at 6:30 p. m.,
Thursday, March 17th. Alumni in Philadelphia
and that section number thirty-seven.

Dr. John W. MacConnell, '02, local physician,
will attend from Davidson and will be the guest
of honor and principal speaker. He was invited
by Dr. A. B. Reese, '17, president of the New
York chapter, to be their special guest, and
consented to attend two other meetings before
he returns to Davidson. He selected Philadel-
phia and Baltimore, because were the
medical centers, in which field of endeavor he
is personally interested.

those

The New York alumni chapter is one of the
oldest in existence. At the first meeting when
an official delegate attended from Davidson, 224
attended. Last year the number approximated
55, and has been increasing for the past several
years. The Philadelphia chapter was formally
organized only two years ago, though there
had been two preceding informal meetings with
officers from Davidson. The Philadelphia chap-
ter is largely one of “floating” membership, be-
cause it is composed of many medical students.

Prof. R. C. Garth, 19, of the physics depart-
ment of Columbia University, is secretary of
the New York group, and S. C. Harris, '17,
is president of the Philadelphia organization.
The alumni office has been in co-operation with
them in arranging these meetings, and has sent
out lists of alumni in those sections, and self
addressed return postal card to the officers, a:
well as a full notice about the gathering.

Alumni Marriage

Caldwell-Neel

Information has only recently been received
by the alumni office of the marriage on De-
cember 17, 1932, of William James Caldwell,
Jr., ’29, and Miss Margaret Elizabeth Neel,
both of Louisville, Ky. Mr. Caldwell, who is
a native of Yazoo City, Miss., attended the
University of Mississippi after leaving David-
son. He is now connected with Brown-Wil-
liamson Tobacco Company, of Louisville, Ky.
Mr. and Mrs. Caldwell are residing at 724
Brookiine Ave., Apt. 2, Louisville, Ky.

ALUMNI PERSONALS

Among alumni visitors to the campus during
the past week were Rev. C. S. Matthews, D.D.,
95, of Lumberton; L. H. Smith, 12, of Easley,
S. C.; Jno. A. Scott, '12, of Statesville; Geo.
Ii. Miley, '21, of Charlotte; Paul Jamison, ’22,
of Charlotte; W. W. Flowe, Jr., '29, of Con-
cord; J. A. Haney, ’30, of Winston-Salem; J. L.
Severance, '31, of Columbia, S. C.

Friends will regret to learn that the three-
month-old daughter of, Alex Sprunt, ‘11, of
Wilmington, was found smothered to death last
Friday; of the death of Dr. H. W. Corbett,
brother of Rev. H. D. Corbett, ’13, of Bowling
Green, S. C., and of the death of Mrs. Phereba
McLean, mother of Rev. J. Lee McLean, ’24,
of Capron Bridge, W. Va.

Because of ill health, Rev. W. B. S. Chandler,
07, last week resigned as pastor of the First
Presbyterian Church of Monroe. Mr. Chandler
suffered an apoplectic stroke last fall, from
which he has partially recovered. He felt, how-
ever, that it was best to resign his pastorate.
He has been in Monroe since 1923.

Last Sunday Rev. T. G. Tate, '10, and all
organizations of the Olney Presbyterian ‘Church
in South Gastonia, celebrated his tenth anni-
versary as pastor of that church. Mr. Tate has
been instrumental in a remarkable growth in
that church, and has been active in many other
lines than church endeavor. He is a trustee of
Davidson.

Rev. W. I. Howell, '27, of Nitro, W. Va.,
has accepted a call extended him by the First
Presbyterian Church at Mocksville, and will
assume his duties as pastor there on April 1st.
Mr. Howell has been located at Nitro, W. Va.,
since he graduated from Union Theological
Seminary in 1930.

Chas. A. Cannon, '13, and Geo. A. Batte, Jr.,
727, both of Concord, and party are now on a
cruise of the West Indies.

James H. Carson, ‘16, of Charlotte, president
of the North Carolina Association of Real Es-
tate Boards, will deliver an address in Greens-
boro on March 8, in Winston-Salem on March

14, and expects to speak in Asheville about
April 1.
Dr. C. S..McCants, ‘12, of Winnsboro, S. C.,

is on the program of the 84th annual meeting
of the South Carolina Medical Association.
This will be held in Columbia, S. C., April
19-21. The chairman of arrangements for this
gathering is Dr. M. H. Wyman, ‘08, of Co-
lumbia.

The home of Dr. M. A. Lackey, '15, of High
Point, was recently entered during his absence
from the city, and a thousand dollars’ worth of
valuables were taken by the culprit or culprits.

Marshall A. Thompson, ’20, editor of The
Scottish Chief, at Maxton, will be a candidate
for a seat in the North Carolina House of Rep-
resentatives from Robeson County. In addition
to his editorial duties, Mr. Thompson is a
farmer and lumber manufacturer. He has also
studied at Princeton and Harvard, and is mak-
ing his first bid for political office.

Rev. James M. Appleby, '26, who is now
studying under a Union Theological Seminary
fellowship at New College, University of Edin-
burgh, will leave London next Friday for a
trip of several weeks, the particular destination
being Palestine, where he will spend two weeks.
He will be in Jerusalem for Easter. Some of
the points he will touch will be Cairo, Beirut,
Cyprus, Rhodes, Constantinople, Athens and
Brindisi, Italy. Mr. Appleby will not complete
his degree work until next December.

Dr. Fred W. Rankin, '05, one of the chief
surgeons in the Mayo Clinic at Rochester,
Minn., and a teacher in the post-graduate med-
ical school of the University of Minnesota, was
in Greensboro last week and delivered an ad-
dress to the Guilford County Medical Society
on Thursday. Dr. Rankin was in Birmingham,
Ala., Monday and Tuesday, where he attended
and spoke before the Southeastern Surgical
Congress.

J. A. Haney, ’30, who taught school at Dan-
bury, N. C., last year, is now in the advertising
business on an individual scale. At present,
much of his work is along the poster line.

Dr. Hugh H. Smith, ’23, is now at Kingston,
Jamaica, where he is doing research work in
physics and working in the hospital studying
tropical diseases for the Rockefeller Institute.

S. L. McCarty; ’29, is a radio operator for
the Radio Marine Corporation, and: is stationed
in Savannah, Ga. While a student at Davidson,
Mr. McCarty specialized in the field of radio,
and for tw8& years after leaving here was a
radio operator on a ship.

Rev. C. E. Rankin, '17, who has been in China
for a number of years, is now in America, and
is studying at Columbia University. He is lo-
cated at the International House, 500 Riverside

ey

“DRUGS”

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

Make Our Store Your Store
Students’ Supplies

WHITE DRUG CO, , Inc.

Drive.
Q
“SODA”

“SUNDRIES”

ze CCT \99
. +|| Stetson “D” Store
UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA Get Dressed Up at Stetson D’s
Faculty of Distinguished Scholars For the
Student body drawn from forty-two Colleges and Universities. .
AME Gs rs Goes a Wes, cece ores BIG EASTER PARADE MARCH 27
Mission Field of the Southern Presbyterian Church. | is
Catalog and information on request. Clothes F or the College Man

