THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 19, 1932

Lewis Defeats Gold to

Win Tennis Tournament
‘Winner Has Gained State-Wide Hon-

ors in Former Matches

The annual Freshman tennis tournament
was brought to a close last week when Car-
lyle Lewis, after a hard-fought match, de-
feated Thomas Gold, 7-5, 6-0, 6-2, thus cap-
turing for himself the title of Freshm’.n
champion, held last year by “Skip” Brown.

Lewis won his way to the semi-finals by
defeating Bell, Lindsay and Bowman. He
encountered very little trouble until his
match with Bowman, whom he finally
downed after four sets had been played.

Gold, on the other ‘hand, seemed to have
had more trouble defeating Wells, Dillard,
and Barnette, downing the latter after a
match ending in the score of 6-2, 2-6, 6-1,
6-8, 6-3. Therefore the Freshman team tltis
year will probably consist of Lewis, Gold,
Barnette and Bowman. fe:

The winner gained state-wide recognition
when he was runner-up in the junior singles
in the Middle Atlantic tennis championships
held in Charlotte during the past summer.
He also paired with Earl Ruth of Charlotte
to capture the doubles crown. Lewis’ home
is in Davidson.

The results of the complete tournament
are: First round: Hassell defeated Cassady,
6-3, 6-3; Bowman defeated Goodykoontz,
6-1, 10-8; Lindsay defeated Morrow, 6-3,
6-4; Lewis drew a bye; Bell defeated Mur-
ray, 6-1, 6-2;"Marvin defeated Griffen, 6-3,
2-6, 8-6; Barnette defeated Dudley, 7-5, 7-5;
Gold defeated Welds; Dillard drew a bye;
Morrow defeated Williams, 7-5, 6-2; Lewis
defeated Bell, 6-3, 6-2, and Dillard defeated
Morrow, 6-4, 10-12, 6-2.

In the second round: Bowman defeated
Hassell, 9-7, 3-6, 6-4; Lewis defeated Lind-
say, 6-1, 7-5; Barnette defeatéd Marvin, 6-1,
6-0, and Gold defeated Dillard, 6-2, 6-3.

In the semi-finals: Lewis defeated Bow-
man, 6-4, 1-6, 6-0, 6-2, and Gold defeated
Barnette, 6-2, 2-6, 6-1, 6-8, 6-3.

In the finals: Lewis defeated Gold, 7-5,
6-0, 6-2.

DAVIDSON WILDCATS
DEFEAT V. M. I.

(Continued from page 1)
ference, shot off tackle for 25 yards-and.a
touchdown.

Neither team used the aerial attack with
any marked success, but one completed by
V. M. I. proved the feature of the evening.
Billy Smith, standing on his own seven-yard
line, hurled a beautiful pass to Jack Walker
on Davidson 41-yard line. Walker was in-
jured on this play when he was’ tackled by
Mackorell.

Straub and Captain Kostainsek were the
best gainers for the Cadets and carried the
brunt. of their attack which at times looked
very impressive, but were able to register
only six first downs to Davidson’s nine. Hil-
liard proved to be the star linesman for the
Cadets and on more than one occasion threw
the ’Cat ball-carriers for losses.

Davidson’s second and final score came in
the fourth quarter while.V. M. I. was try-
ing frantically to score by the air route. The
Cadets punted from deep in their territory
to, Wingfield who again made a beautiful
run, returning-the ball to V. M. Is 22-yard
line.__Then, pushed back against their goal
line, they tried a‘ fatal pass which Hand
intercepted’ and went two yards for another

touchdown. Neither try for extra point was
successful,

Line-up:

Vv. M. I. Position Davidson
Brel rigk ics ances } 32) Dycaeigaeomdet ga Morris
Kaylor: +2030 2 ss, RD Sie ckcte A Whitfield
Burgess ___________ RiGee eee oe Rives
Nimmo esses seses Center_________ McElrath
Hilliard: 2r2_" 2.2 ji} phrase a Sepaa. tig 6 Hand
Lowe fare genie ticop gb As Reina ret ae Wagner
Gilbert Sade ee ) BS) Dia See eater Morgan
Smith) 22 25 noe ORS ee Mackorell | ~
Straubose setae. 12) 5 tie ian elarwacani Pearce
Law 2-+------------ 15S Nanas Peabody
Kostainsek (c) .2.-F.B,t2¢ 2. Hutchins

Score by quarters:
Vee Mi Tisse ene en ey al 000 00
Wa VidSON) oso eee 6 0 0 6~—12

PEARCE LEADS ‘KITTENS TO
21-6 VICTORY OVER TERRIERS

(Continued from page 5)
early in the third period, when after a steady
drive down the field “Wood” Burns tossed
a pass to Cumbie over the goal line. Ed
Slaughter cracked center, and went over for
the extra point, placing Davidson in the lead
at 14 to 6.

Wofford received, but being held for
downs, ‘punted out:~-Davidsonthen started
‘another touchdown drive, which ended in
_ another seven points when Pearce scored

DELTA CIRCLE OF NATIONAL
HONORARY LEADERSHIP GROUP

(Continued from page 1)
Davidson,” the Fall Tap Day service was
closed.

ii John R. Howard

John Howard has been interested chiefly
in Y. M. C. A. work on the Davidson campus
during his first three years here!’ He was
one of the two vice-presidents of the -Y. M.
C..A. during his Junior year. This-year he
is a member of the “Y” Cabinet. Last year
he also served on this Cabinet. During the
past summer he was thes student pastor of
the Davidson Chapel. Other activities of his
are varsity track, “D” Club, and Student
Council. He is a member of the Pi Kappa
Alpha social fraternity.

Charles F. Myers

Charley Myers has;been interested in many
varied activities, connected chiefly with the
publications and athletics. Editor of the
Wildcat Handbook, captain of the varsity
tennis team, one of the two vice-presidents
of the Y. M. C. A. last year, “D” Club, and
member of the “Y” Cabinet are some of his
attainments while in college. He is a mem-
ber of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fra-
ternity. ’

Robert Glasgow, Jr.

Robert Glasgow’s interests have | been
chiefly centered around Y. M. C. A. and
publication work. This year he is a mem-
ber of the Y. M. C. A. Board of Control and
the-“Y” Cabinet. He is also manager of
the Freshman basketball team. His work
on the publications has been- in connection
with the business staffs of the Wildcat Hand-

book and the Quips and Cranks.. This year
he is business manager of the Wildcat Hand-

.| book and last yéar he was:‘on the Annual

staff... Glasgow is also a Student Council
member. His social fraternity is Phi Delta
Theta. sd

William A, Flinn

Bill Flinn, being interested in athletics
and Y. M. C. A. work, has been outstand-
ing in both.:He is also the Judge of .the
Court of Control, which is the body pro-
vided for the regulation of the Freshman
class. Last spring he broke the college rec-
ord in the pole vault, and this fall he has
proved his worth on the football field among
numerous competitors. He is a member of
the Kappa Alpha social fraternity. This year
he is serving on both the Y. M. C. A. Cab-
inet and Board: of Control.

Brooke E. Allen

Brooke Allen has had the difficult and
important position of varsity cheer leader
this year. Besides this he is one of the two
managers of the Student Store. This is
operated by the student body and the man-
agers each year. are very carefully chosen.
Allen if a captain in the local R. O. T. C. unit
and also a member of Scabbard and Blade.
He is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta so-
cial fraternity.

x U. B. Gardner

Buddy Gardner has been outstanding in
athletics since his Freshman year at David-
In that year he was captain of the first-
year men and proved to be one. of the best
centers in the state. Since that time he has
improved greatly, and now as captain of the
varsity football team he rates as one of the

son,

year,

best players in the southeastern states. He
is a member of the “D” Club and last year
was a vice-president of the Athletic Asso-
ciation. Kappa Sigma is his social fraternity.

A. M. Manson

Mac Manson has been very active in pub-
lication work, being connected with the
business staff. This year he is business
manager of The Davidsonian. This position
carries with it a great deal of responsibility
and work. Manson is a member of Scab-
bard and Blade, honorary military fraternity,
and he is a lieutenant in the R. O. T. C.
unit at Davidson. He is also.a monitor this
year. He is a member of the Sigma Alpha
Epsilon social fraternity.

William F. Mulliss

Bill Mulliss is serving very efficiently “as
president of the Pan-Hellenic Council this
This council has control over the so-
cial activities of the ten national fraterni-
ties at Davidson, and the position Mulliss
holds’ is an important one. He was recently
elected to Phi Beta Kappa. Besides being

a member of various other honorary fra-
ternities, he is a member of the Pi Kappa
Alpha social fraternity. He alSo has been
connected with some of the publications at
Davidson.

The members who composed the’ Delta
Circle before these men were elected were
P, F. Brown, J. B, Clark, E. O. Guerrant,
R. L. McCallie, W. A. Mebane, C. W. Pearce
and E. B. Peabody.

__ GET
U-Push-Ems
At

M. P. Henderson’s
Gulf Station

ert

GEO. LAPITZ

SEE THE ... STAR DIRECT
Tailoring Display
EVERY THURSDAY ... at
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

Student Representatives

B. O. RAVENELLE

~via-the~forward pass method, and Pittman
again converted from placement. The Wof-
‘ford boys tried vainly to even the count on

‘passes in the final stanza, but were repulsed,
and the game ended Davidson 21, Wofford 6.

E buy the finest, the very |

finest tobaccos in all the
world—but that does not
explain why folks every-
where’ regard Lucky Strike as
the mildest cigarette. The fact
is, we never overlook the
truth that “‘Nature in the
Raw is Seldom Mild’’~so

"Ifa man write a better ined, breach a better sermon, or make a
build bis house in the woods, the world will make a beaten path to

Does not this explain the world-wide acceptance and approval of Liicky Serike? |

BRING’EM
BACK ALIVE

Nature in the

Raw’? = as pore
trayed by the vi-
cious battle be-
tween the python
and the tiger...
in Frank, Buck’s
thrilling motion
picture, ‘Bring
’Em Back Alive,’
filmed from nature
in the Malay jungle.

_~-.—and raw tobaccos
have no place in cigarettes

They are not present in Luckies
... the mildest cigarette
you ever smoked

these fine tobaccos, after
proper aging and‘mellowing,
are then given the benefit of
that Lucky Strike purifying .
process, described by the
words—“‘It’s toasted”. That’s
why folks in every city, town
and hamlet say that Luckies
are such mild cigarettes,

“It's toasted”
That package of mild Luckies

better mouse-trap shan bis neighbor, tho be
bis door,’’—RALPH WALDO EMERSON:

