TRACK MEET
WITH
V. P. I. SATURDAY

SALENDA

The Davidsonian

LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

BASEBALL GAME
WITH DUKE
THIS AFTERNOON

Vol. XIX

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 13, 1932

No. 25

Charlie Pearce Elected New

President

Lafferty and Holland, Only Two Soph-
omore Lettermen, Were Elected
Vice-Presidents

MANY ARE NOMINATED

West of Freshman Class Was Chosen
Secretary and Treasurer

During the last week the student body elected
the officers of the Athletic Association for the
year 1932-1933. In the first ballot, which was
cast to decide the president for the coming
year, all except three of those who were nomi-
nated were eliminated. All of the Junior letter-
men were nominated for this office. They are:
Bruce Peabody, Buck Mills, Charlie Pearce,
Charlie Myers, Buddy Gardner, Harry Bouch-
er, June Morrison, Bill Flinn, Bob McCallie,
Alec LittlegsDick Whitfield, George Bailey,
Earle Bradsher, Fred Fleagle, Jack Wagner,
Tom Caldwell, John Howard, and Ben Taylor.
Those who were voted on in the second ballot
were Peabody, Pearce and Mills. In this vote
Mills was eliminated, and in the next, which
was the third and last, Charlie Pearce was
elected to the office. The two nominees for
the two vice-presidents, Mack Holland and
John Lafferty, were unanimously elected. All
of the Freshmen who were granted numerals
in any sport during the past year were nomi-
nated for the combined office of secretary and
treasurer. In the first ballot all except the fol-
lowing were eliminated: West, Potter, Hutchins
and Lee. In the next vote West was clected.

Pearce is a member of the Kappa Sigma
social fraternity. He played on the Freshman
football team and also on the varsity team in
his Sophomore year until he was injured in
such a way that he was no longer able to play.
However, he played on the team last year. He
was picked for the all-state team by some, and
many people of the state consider him to be
one of the best punters which the collegiate
teams afford. Pearce also made his letter in
baseball in his Sophomore year as a_ pitcher.
During ‘the year 1931-1932 Pearce has been
vice-president of the student body.

' The installation date for these officers has
not been stated as yet, but it is understood that
it will be in the near future.

Le Cercle Francais
Has Entertainment

Goldieres Are Hosts to French Club
on March 23

Le Gratid Cafe du Chat Qui Dort (The Great
Cafe of the Cat Who Sleeps), 13 Place de la
Madeleine, was host to the Davidson College
Le Cercle Francais on Wednesday evening,
March 23rd, at 8 o’clock. This Grand Restaur-
ant is known throughout the world for its fa-
mous hors d’oeuvres and French pastries, the
latter of which is prepared by the wife of the
proprietor.

Upon arriving at 23 Place de la Madeleine
(the home of M. and Mme. Goldiere), the
Americans had their money changed into
French banknotes of 5, 10 and 20-franc denom-
ination, and into coins of 25 and 50 centimes and
one franc.

The Restaurant presented a play in one act,
called “Les. Martins au Restaurant.” The cast
was:

MeiMartinives 222 25 Seca gee

Mme. Martin

M. Goldiere
Mme. Goldiere

Mitims 2 ieac aaa eee Mme. Watts
Gharlot. 222222 ee ee M. Lotiis Hand
Wes Carcony 22822. ees M. Watts

The scene was laid in Paris, in the present
time. The price of the program was 1.50.

This presentation was a very amusing story
of a French couple with their, mischievous son
coming to the cafe and eating a full course
dinner. The waiter with his mustache and
goatee performed his duties admirably and con-
tinuously held the audience spellbound by his
marvelous acting. The acting laurels, however,
go to the entire cast.

After this entertainment the American guests
took their respective places at tables, seating
four, and the two garcons, Messrs. Goldiere
and Watts, with M. Hand as the petit garcon,
served the guests. M. Hand sold the newspa-
per Le Temps and then returned to his duty
as an assistant waiter.

The vin blanc was served first and alternated

(Continued on page 6)

of Athletic Ass’n
Dr. W. S. Lee Bid By

| Physics Fraternity

DY AW Sk of Charlotte and New
York, rated as one of the three leading hydro-
electric engineres of America, has accepted an
invitation for honorary membership in the Da-
vidson College Alpha chapter of Pi
Sigma, national honorary physics fraternity,
and has also accepted an invitation of the local
|chapter to deliver an address here on April 21.

Dr. Lee's address, which will be delivered in
the auditorium Chambers Building at &
o'clock, will follow his private initiation into
{the local chapter. He has announced that it will
be an illustrated lecture, in which he will
show moving pictures of projects he has con-

Lee,

Sigma

of

structed, and explain some of the obstacles
he has surmounted.

Selection of this eminent engineer by the
Davidson mother chapter is pursuant to its

policy of choosing only the most eminent lead-
lers in the field of physics in America. Among
imembers of Sigma Pi Sigma Dr. We FP.
' Swann, director of the Bartol Research Founda-
‘tion of Philadelphia; Dr. K. T. Compton, presi-
dent of Massachusetts Institute of Technology ;
'Dr. R. C. Miller, of the department of physics,
'Case School of Applied Science; Dr. Arthur
| Haas, theoretical physicist at the University of
| Vienna; Dr. W. I. Forsythe, head of the re-
search laboratory of General Electric Com-
‘pany; Dr. A. H. Compton, director of research

are

lat the University of Chicago, and Dr. Fn.
Richtmyer, physicist at Cornell University.
The latest addition to this honorary fra-

ternity was educated at The Citadel, Charles-
pee S. C., and’ in 1929
doctor of science degree by Davidson.

with a
Dr.
Lee entered the hydro-electric field in its .pio-
neer days, and has made valuable contributions
les an inventor, designer, and builder. Prac-
|tically all of the network of high tension lines,
as well as the dams and steam power plants
in the two Carolinas have been built under his
supervision.

Dr. Lee’s endeavor has not been limited to
this area, for he has built plants in Canada and

was honored

is now consulting engineer for the St. Lawrence
hydro-electric project. He is president of the
W. S. Lee Engineering Co., president of the
Piedmont and Northern Railway, vice-president
and chief engineer of the Duke Power Com-
pany, and a trustee of the Duke Foundation.
He is affiliated with all engineering societies
in America, and is now president, or has been
president of most of them. Dr. Lee has also
in charge of the construction of Duke
University.

been

Sigma Pi Sigma was founded at Davidson
ten years ago, and today it has 23 chapters in
the United States and the Philippines. The
latest addition is Purdue University. The local

(Continued on page 5)

Masquers Issue Bids

At a recent meeting.of the Key mem-
bers of the Red and Black Masquers
the following men were issued bids on
_ the basis of their histrionic ability and

interest in dramatics: D. W. Hollings-
| worth, G. W. Easton, A. S. Rachal,
Jack Williams, Jr., P. F. Brown, H. H.
' Hodgin, E. G. Williams, and J. J.
| Klooster.

Hollingsworth has appeared in
| “Bound East for Cardiff,” and “In the
| Zone,” as “Yank”; Easton has also ap-

peared in “Bound East for Cardiff,”

and as the tramp in “The Haunted
! House”; Jack Williams, Jr., will be re-
| membered for performances in “Bound
East for Cardiff,’ “Haunted House,”
and “Well, I Declare”; Grainger Wil-
liams has appeared in an important
part in “Monkey’s
worked as

Paw,” and also
stage manager; Brown,
Hodgin, and Klooster have done con-
siderable work in make-up, stage light-
ing and acted as stage managers in
productions.

The Red and Black Masquers under
the direction of Horace Erwin have
just closed a successful season. Dur-
ing the past year they have presented
meritorious productions of several
groups of one-act plays and one three-
act play.

Student Body Banquet

On Thursday, April 28, the Student |
Body Banquet will be held_in Cham-
bers Building. The installation of all ||
the new student officers will be held |

|
|
|

Prof. Archie Currie
Speaks at Vespers

in Chambers Auditorium during the
beginning of the evening. Afterward
supper will be served in the banquet
hall. It is hoped a full attendance will
be had, and Don King, president of the
student body, has said that it is most
important that everyone will come in
order to witness the installation and
give encouragement for future success
to the new officers.

The Y services were held) Sunday

fnight in Chambers Auditorium. The speaker of

vesper

Jot political science here. The devotional sery
Jices were conducted by William Matthews of
i the Sophomore class, who took for his  serip-
| ture reading the sixth chapter of Joshua, the

music was rendered on the violin by Charles

Reed, accompanied by Ed MeNair at the piano.

Pan-Hellenic Council to

, é George Bailey and Cal Kuykendall led) in
Hold Its Annual Spring ©:
The subject of Professor Currie’s talk was

Socials This Week-End

|* The Fall of Jericho.”

° ° ° | The city of Jericho had heard of the might
Friday Night Entertainment at Hotel | deeds of the Israelites before they racked

Charlotte; Saturday Afternoon and |

E. A A lthe city. Their former deeds had instilled fear
vening at Armory fin the hearts of the people of Jericho.
|

As the Israelites about to into
| the Promised Land, it did not seem promising
hat all with this well-fortified city which was

Davidson College Orchestra to Furnish) ayjjed to the tecth. They did not see how they

Music for the Entertainments

were enter

FEATURES BOWERY BALL

to it. God
instructions as to the campaign which he was
Pan-Hel- | to
lenie Couneil will be held this year in Char. | foolish and with no purpose, Tt is undecided
lotte at the Hotel Charlotte and the Char- | what the effect of the marching around the city
lotte Armory. The time. set these affairs
is Friday and Saturday, April 15th and 16th,
respectively. The music will be furnished by |
“12, B. Robinson and his North Carolinians,” | Was upon the people of Jericho, It may have
better the Davidson College (oly El them bold to see this strange and pur-
chestra, formerly the “Sunnyland Serenaders.” | tramping their
The first of these entertainments will be held | wall, and again it may be taken that it instilled
at the Charlotte ie Friday evening a

Were going capture gave Joshua

The annual spring socials of the pursue. To the people, they seemed very

for each day for six days with no one speaking, the

priests blowing on their trumpets and mareh
ing around it, seven times on the seventh day,
known as

poseless — procession around

fear into their hearts.

" a ee we only pune (as 0. | On the seventh day they marched around the
set. Two more on Saturday will be held at | rf i : ;
wall of the city scvea times, as God had com

the Charlotte Armory. The afternoon social will |
he from 4:30 te 7, and will be an informal |manded, and blew their trumpets and shouted
affair, The last event, known as the “Bowery |in a loud voice. The wall tell down to the
Sal,’ will be 9 till 12. This brilliant |
event will be a costume ball, and’ anyone not
appearing in costume will not be admitted to
the floor. Special features of the evening will
he the awarding of prizes to the boy ad girl

from ground and everyone marched straight forward

and took the city.

Some people discredit miracles as something
that were supposed to have happened in ages
wearing the best costume, past, and never did, Our practical minds say

The are
house parties this week-end and the

that it is something that never happens here
the twentieth We treat them
the same light as fairy stories.

ten social fraternities here having

“Bowery {in century. in
Jall” is to be the main attraction of the period.

These entertainments will probably be the most As Professor Currie said, “If you go up on

outstanding set of the year, everyone who comes mn

top of Grandfather's Mountain and look

to them being assured of a good time.

“The price for the set will be $3.50, or the
Friday night affair will be $1.50, the Satur-
day afternoon one will be $1.00, and the Satur
day night costume “Bowery Ball” will be only
$1.50. These entertainments are under the su-
pervision of the Pan-Ifellenie Couneil, of which
Allen Whitehead is president.

Col. James H. Little
Will Inspect Corps

Official Rating for Davidson Unit Will
Be Determined

the beautiful sunrise, you can see a miracle
which is as miraculous as the fall of Jericho
If you walk out on our beautiful campus and
look at the trees beginning to blossom, we fan
easily see that this is a twentieth century mir-
acle.”

Everyone has their Jericho, and if we want

to conquer and overcome it, we must trust

God implicitly, although we may not have
real reason for it. Just as if Joshua had not
carried out God's commands which
would have caused the taking away of the mir-

any

exactly,

lacle, so we will fail unless this is done.
| :
The

Professor

services were dismissed in

Schenck.

prayer by

|
Colonel James M. Little, of Winston-Salem, |

will inspect the R. O. T. C. department of | ’ :
Davidson College on April 21 and 22. On | Reporters Club Bids.
Tuesday Colonel Little will inspect the armory, | pce

physical equipment, and will meet with several
R. O. T. C. classes for reviews in military | last Monday night, 22 new men were
tactics. He will attend more elected to membership to the literary
Wednesday. The local chapter of Scabbard and |

ee || \ organization. The men honored in this
Blade will entertain at a luncheon in his honor |

way are:
at 12:30 o'clock on the same day. At 2:10 the | Mattison Alderman, Donald Bailey,
battalion will form for calisthenics, after which}

: | Ben Barnes, Enid Bowers, Sam Eaton,
a parade will be given ‘for him, Colonel Little | Jim Ficklen, George Gullette, Jack Hel-
linger, Stuart Henry, Latimer McClin-
tock, Bill MclIlwinen, Fred McPhail,
Cecil Neill, Bill Northen, Caskie Nor-
vell, Mims Rogers, Ben Rose, Tom
Sutton, Wilson Wallace, Kenneth
Weeks, Tom Wood, Lewis Gregg, and
RAH Jim White.

| It was agreed at this meeting that
on next Tuesday evening at 9 o'clock

At a meeting of the Reporters’ Club

classes on}

will afterwards officially inspect the battalion. |
A field problem will be given, and a certain
company, platoon, and squad selected by the |
officer will execute military
report of Colonel Little will be filed with the |
War Department at Washington to determine

maneuvers. The

the rating of the local unit for this year.

Colonel Little is now attached to the
first Division of the organized reserves and 1s
with the infantry branch of the service. Dur- |
ing the Mexican disturbance he was with the |
Twentieth Infantry on the Mexican border, and |
when the United States entered the World| ’
War, Colonel Little was detailed for grind 1932-33. At this time the club will be
over seas. While in Davidson the visiting in- | host at a feed to the entire editorial

the initiation of the new men would
be held, together with the election of
the new- officers for the fiscal year of

| the evening was Prof. Archie Currie, professor

| first through the twenty-first verses. Special |

spector will be the guest of Lieut.-Col. \W. R. | staff of The Davidsonian.
' (Continued on page 5) |

| Edward O. Guerrant Chosen
As New Head of Davidsonian

Student Body Selects New Editor Dur-

ing Tuesday Chapel Hour on
Third Ballot

SUCCEEDS GRIER MARTIN

Will Be Installed at Student Body
Banquet April 28

During the past week the student body has
the of the editor-in-
Davidsonian for next scholastic
year 1932-1933, Three ballotings were neces-

voting in election

of the

heen

chiet

sary in order to complete the election. On Tues-
day morning in chapel the third balloting was
held, which resulted in the election of Edward
O. Guerrant to head the college newspaper for

the

Next vear,
elt candidates for this position were the
jfive managing editors of the past year: Ed-
ward ©, Guerrant, Pasadena, Calif.; Dunean
D. McBryde, Linden, N. C.; Robert L. Me-

Callie, Chattanooga, Tenn.; Charles F. Myers,
Greensboro, N.C
NieG

, and B. Bruce Sugg, Green-
In the first round of ballots last
Friday, R. LL. MeCallie and B, B.
eliminated. On Saturday another
held in whieh C. 7.
race in a very closely drawn vote. Finally on

ville,
Sugg were
voting was
Myers was put out of the

yesterday morning the last voting was held, the
student between. Guerrant and
D. D. MeBryde. As a result of this balloting,

Guerrant

body choosing

was elected to the position,

The member of Phi Delta
Theta He also & member
of Delta Pi Kappa, honorary journalistic fra-

hew. editor is a

social fraternity. is
ternity and the Reporters’ Club, and is seere-
tary of the International
assistant

and treasurer Rela-
Club, He editor of the
annual, the Quips and Cranks, and is assistant
editor of the Wildeat Handbook, which is pub-
lished by the Y. M. C, A. He also holds a stu-
dent assistantshipsin Bible under Dr. Sentelle.

1). Martin, the
of the paper, gives up the paper with this issue,
He
at the student body

tions is an

Grier present editor-in-chief

and the new editor takes charge at once.

will be formally installed
installation services.

Y. M. C. A. Cabinet
Is to Be Installed

New Officers Will Officially Take
Charge Sunday at Vespers '

On Sunday, April 17th, the new Y. M. ZA,
Cabinet members will be installed at the! reg-
ular “Y" vesper service. At this special serv-
ice the old cabinet will officially hand over to
the new cabinet the leadership of the Y. M.
C, A. The new president and his cabinet mem-
bers will be charged with their responsibilities

and their privileges for the coming year, The

inew officers elected

| recently by the student

body are: Paul Brown, president; E. L. Pow-
ell, Rufus C.
president.

vice-president ; Morrow, vice-

The names of the men of the new cabinet
and of the general secretary have not-been an-
nounced as yet. As soon as they have become
installed they will work together with the old
cabinet until the end of the Spring Services.

The retiring officers are composed of the
following men: Roger Enloe, president; J. H.
Howard, vice-president; C.F. Myers, vice-
president; Carl R. Pritchett, general secretary.

The retiring cabinet is composed of the fol-
lowing men: C. W. Arnold, Church Relations;
Re Ws World Evangelism; H. W.
Erwin, Music; R. W. Gorrell, Jr., Social Cen-
ter; J. R. Howard, Deputations; D. S. King,
Chapel Services; C. W. Kuykendall, Student
‘Life; D. G. Martin, Freshman Work; W. H.
| Matthews, Publications; J. H. McKinnon, Sun-
| day Schools; C. F. Myers, Jr. Attendance;
| William Rule, Boys’ Work; N. G. Speir, So-
cial Life; R. L. Torrence, Vocational Guidance ;
S. S. Wiley, Weekly Meetings.

This year Carl Pritchett is retiring as gen-
eral of the Y. M. C. A, after two
During this time he has
handled his numerous duties in a most efficient
way,

Buckner,

secretary

years of service.

general advisor for
braneh of the work.

During the summer Mr.

acting as every
Pritchett is going to
assist Dr. Myers with his chureh in Greens-
boro, and next year he is to leave Davidson to
attend-one of the. Presbyterian. seminaries.

The name of the new secretary has not at
the present time been made public.

