N

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 27, 1932

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year, Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

--Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
.-Athletic Editor
Exchange Editor
.-Feature Editor
.-Feature Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor

0
Rens
n

Baron
z
ie}
i--}
x
<
iw)

BORDOSHOSS SE

BUSINESS STAFF

MAN SONtscusccacsnuswicseceu Assistant Business Manager
.-Assistant Business, Manager
.--Assistant Business Manager
-Subscription Manager
-Solicitor
-Solicitor

TC -Solicitor
MANSON... ---Solicitor
REPORTERS’ CLUB ;
I. BS GAR Biers icesccesevabes es Qrpdascowubuset vesseuaes, President
iO RGA MIB IS Waiieccocsnacskudsnouacscusesceuseauce Vice-President
GE WASP GRAG Giese ec eases esas so ss Secretary-Treasurer
M. W. ALDERMAN J. L. McCLINTOCK
R. H, ALDERMAN W._L. McILWINEN
G. E, BAILY E.. F. McPHAIL
D. B. BAILEY W.,.C.. NEILL
B, C. BARNES Wj L. NORTHEN
3. E. BOWERS C./E. NORVELL
. E, BOYD E. L. POWELL
. H. COVINGTON S. P. PRESTON
S. Ki EATON P. M. ROGERS
J. B. FICKLIN B. L, ROSE
G. L. GULLETTE T. H. SUTTON
ACK HELLINGER N. W. WALLACE
. C. HENRY K, D. WEEKS
i A, HUNTER W. .R. WARD
. E. LORRAINE W. T. THOMPSON \
T. F. WOOD }; W. WHITE
W. F. MULLISS . PRATT-THOMAS

APRIL 27, 1932

Bad laws, if they exist, should be repealed as
soon as possible; still while they continte in force,
for the sake of example they should be religiously
observed.—Abraham Lincoln.

THOUGHTS IN PASSING

Charlie Pearce and the whole baseball team gave
an excellent account of themselves in their decisive
win over the Charlotte Hornets.

—EE— Es

It is a true evidence of spring when all the tennis

courts on Saturday afternoon are taken at one-thirty.
SS

Mr. Beck of New York delivered one of the most
entertaining and at the same time instructive talks
which the student body has had the privilege to hear
in some time.

—————

With the change in the commencement schedule
this year, the entire student body will be present at
the baccalaureate sermon for the first time in many
years.

—D.

The death of Phar Lap, the great Australian horse,
by poisoning, removed from the Kentucky Derby en-
trants probably one of the fastest race horses ever to
run in this country.

ee ee

It is hoped that many men in the student body
made use of their opportunity to consult with these
four men who have conducted Spring Services to the
fullest extent.

pessiacsec Ed", Viera ae

The.bulk of the student body and class elections
which have occupied the interest of the student body
for practically.she p nex

The Wildcat nine really reaped revenge on Lenoir-
Rhyne last Saturday by a score of 21-2 for the game
a short time ago in which the boys from Hickory
staged a ninth-inning rally to win.

D
STUDENT BODY BANQUET

Two years ago a custom was instituted at Da-
vidson which, notwithstanding its extreme youth-
fulness, has come to be one of the most important
functions of the year. In the spring of the year
1930 the first student body banquet was held at
which time Carl Pritchett, then president of the
student body, and the other retiring officers,
turned over the reins of government to Dan
Goodykoontz and the other incoming officers.
After the installation of the new officers, the en-
tire student body participated in a banquet spread
upon the lawn south of Chambers Auditorium.
Last year this same imposing ceremony was fol-
lowed out as Don King took charge of the stu-
dent body for the coming year.

Tomorrow evening will be the second anniver-
sary of the combined banquet and installation of
new officers. The manner in which this ceremony
is carried out is very unique. A bell is rung to
indicate to the officers—both old and new—to
ascend to the platform. In the past the president
of the Senior class'has presided, but there is no
introduction for the men. Each newly elected offi-
cer along with the’members of the Student Coun-

_cil are installed in this manner. The.unusualness
of the ceremony adds to its impressiveness. The

former student body banquets have been very suc-
cessful, and this is due to a great extent to the
co-operation of the entire student body by attend-
ing. In order to assure the newly elected officers
of the support of all Davidson, every man in the
college should make a real effort to be present.
The same spirit which is so amply manifest at
athletic contests at Davidson may make itself
known in a different manner, if the student body
as a whole will attend.

HINDENBURG AND GERMANY

The recent re-election of Paul von Hindenburg
to the presidency of the German republic over
Adolph Hitler has great significance in relation to
the true character of the German people. Hinden-
burg, who is now in his eighty-fifth year, has been
connected with military life since his early days.
Before the great conflict of 1914 he had been re-
tired by the imperial German government. How-
ever, when the mighty war broke out, hé was re-
called and played a conspicuous part in. the war.
At the close of the war Germany suffered a hu-
miliating treaty, formed a republic, and Tater elect-
ed this grand old man president. He is not in the
ordinary sense of the word a brilliant mah, but
he is the exemplification of integrity, and since the
people have continued to chose him as their lead-

er, the true character of the German nation is .

correctly reflected. Adolf Hitler, with much truth-
fulness, asserts that the debts which have been
thrust upon the German nation are unjust, and
if he is elected his policy will be to abolish them
completely, all except a few private debts. AI-
though Hindenburg feels that the people of Ger-
many are suffering a great injustice, as does most
of the world at this time, he is not willing to rem-
edy the matter by such an action as revolution or
repudiation.

In this age of national and international unrest
and distress, this action of the Greman nation is
very noteworthy, and they should be commended
in their decision. Various other nations of the
world have not had such national integrity in time
of strife since the.war, and as an immediate re-
sult they are in a better condition than Germany
at the present time. However, because of the stand
the Germans have taken at this time, in the end
they will without doubt eventually win out despite
these heavy war debts, if they continue to pursue
such a policy in the future.

OUR CAMPUS

Of the many things which we at Davidson
should be proud, our campus is not the least among
these. It is only right and natural that a student
body should have just pride in having a beautiful
campus; and everything in the power of the stu-
dents to keep the grounds in good condition should
be done by them.

One of the most common failings is the drop-
ping of paper on the walks and on the grass lead-
ing from the postoffice. This is not an irreparable
error, but paper lying scattered over ‘the campus
gives a rather bad appearance, especially when the
campus is naturally so, fresh and green at this
time. Of course this is rt done intentionally, but
nevertheless the paper is ‘there and detracts from
the natural beauty of the Davidson campus.

There is a criticism that there are not enough
receptacles to take care of all the paper, but there
are a few on the campus, and the fact that they
are never filled is evidence that those are not used.

This is not written in a critical but merely in
a suggestive tone, because in the last analysis the
campus is ours, and we are the ones who benefit
in the end by its beauty if it is well kept, and are
forced to live here and gaze upon it daily if it is
in a bad condition. By merely bringing the paper
to our rooms and disposing of it there, or by using
the trash receptacles placed on the campus for this
purpose, we can improve the general appearance
of our grounds in a marked degree.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

Wake Forést

Though we probably don’t know this fact, Wake Forest
is the oldest and largest Baptist college for men in the
United States. It was founded in 1834. In the 100 years
of continual service to the world of students, 7,000 stu-
dents have gained knowledge from its doorsteps. It now
has an endowment of $3,000,000. This year there is a total
of 761 students registered. Wake Forest belongs to the
American Association of Colleges, the Southern Associa-
tion of Secondary Schools and Colleges, the North Caro-
lina College Conference, and the North Carolina Intercol-
legiate Athletic Conference. :

V. M. I.

V. M. I. is to hold her commencement exercises from
June 10-15, 1932. Here are some of the main features of
their Finals: Every day there will be some drills put
on for the benefit of the visitors. On Friday, June 10,
at 10 p. m., the dances will begin with the Opening Hop;
on Saturday, June 11, at the same hour, there will be
the Monogram Club Hop; Sunday, June 12, there will be
the baccalaureate sermon, which will be preached by the
Rev. Bishop Ainsworth, pastor of the M. E. Church,
South, Birmingham, Ala. On Monday, at 10 p: m., there
will be a dance called the Final German. Tuesday, there
will be, at the same hour, the Final Ball. On Wednesday,
closing out the commencement exercises, the graduation
exercises, the address will be delivered by Major General
Paul B. Malone.

University of South Carolina |
The Gamecock will conduct a prohibition poll among

Literary Digest.

World Spectator

Keyhole Komment

After only forty minutes of debate, the House of Rep-
resentatives passed a bill, by a vote of 306 to 47, which
was to the effect that the Philippine Islands were to have
their freedom from the control of the United States on
July 4, 1940. This action has stirred up a great deal of
comment. In Manila, American-owned papers oppose this
move of the House, while the native papers are very
happy over the news. Europeans feel that the United
States would show great selfishness and disregard for
world conditions if the Philippines are given their free-
dom. With the present conditions in China, India, and
other Far Eastern countries, the releasing of the Philip-
pines would destroy any balance of power left in the
Orient. World peace would be hurt instead of favored.
The voting is considered by many to be the depressed
vote of the House in order to be rid of the question. It
is not a vote on the ability of the Philippines to govern
themselves,:but'only a demonstration of confidence in the
return of peace in the Orient. CaN eee

The Philippine papers were very joyful over the news.
Many American papers also favored the plan. It is felt
that America should keep its word to the Philippines un-
der any conditions. It is also thought a favorable thing
for Americagbecause it would remove the danger of Jap-
anese attack upon the islands in case of war. If the bill
is passed by a two-thirds majority of the Senate, we wait
to see the solution of this question which has for so long
been the subject of debate, not only in politics, but in
schools all over the country.

The financial situation in Germany remains very tight,
as shown by the fact that the government agents seized
the bank account of Erich Remarque, author of “All
Quiet on the Western Front,” because of suspicions that
he was banking in foreign countries. There are several
illustrious Germans who have little faith in the Reichs-
bank and who are trying to transfer their accounts to
other countries, At about the same time a radical was
thinking of imitating Martin Luther by posting theses on
the door of the bank, telling how to run the bank cor-
rectly. He was dissuaded by his friends, who suggested
that he shoot the president of the national bank. This was
attempted, with the result that the banker has a slight
wound, and the radical is in jail, awaiting trial.

On April 14, the Spanish Republic celebrated its first
birthday. It was just a year ago that King Alphonso, the
last of the long line of kings who had ruled over Spain
since the time of Louis XIV, was forced to flee to Paris.
Now his palace in Madrid is used partially as the home
and offices of President Niceto Zamora and partially as
a museum.

It has become clear to the world that the Spanish
revolution, which came as a surprise to most people, has
formed a permanent republic, with firm and -complete
backing by the citizens of Spain. The anniversary was not
celebrated by demonstrations or outbreaks of feeling, but
was very quiet, further showing the stability of the new
republic. t

Even the King of England had trouble in wearing his
crown. However his anxiety is not of a political variety,
but is concerned with the comfort of his badge of office.
Recently he complained that the crown was uncomfort-
able, so it was taken under close guard to a jeweler’s.
There the necessary adjustments are being made while’a
spcial guard keeps watch over the: shop night and day.
The English crown is set with many rare and historic
gems, including the second largest diamond in.existence.
It is considered the most valuable and most beautiful
crown in the world.

the students of the University of South Carolina similar
to the Literary Digest Poll, to see how the students
stand on that most important question.

Ballyhoo, that magazine that has caused such a sensa-
tion in America since it was first published last year, is
the most popular magazine among the U. of S. C. stu-
dents; Hooey is next. Other magazines mentioned were:
The American, Liberty, various screen magazines, and

Washington and Lee

The Loudspeaker, a part of The Ring-Tum Phi, tells
us that Coon-Sanders and their famous orchestra have
replaced Ben Bernie over..in Chicago at the famous Col-
lege Inn. Walter Winchell’s pal is on a tour, but is still
being broadcast as usual when he can be picked up.
Coon-Sanders can be heard from the CBS at 12:30 a. m.
on Tuesdays.

While on the subject of Ben Bernie we are told two
stories on him. He was at Fort Wayne, Ind., broadcast-
ing, and he tells us that there he passed a window with
the sign: “Business is getting better.” The firm signature
was “Lyon and Howe.” Here is a verse that Fred Berrens

wrote to Ben Bernie, who had lost a large sum ‘on the »

Florida race track:

“Blessings on thee, little man
Barefoot boy with cheeks of tan

You haven’t shdes or smiling pan
Because you backed an ‘also ran’.”’

Sponsored by Colonel Vuilemont, commander of the
Palatine Guard at the Vatican, a movement was intro-
duced to establish a papal military museum. The Pope
gave his consent, so a short while ago the military store
rooms were emptied. The arms were cleaned and identi-
fied, and finally placed in a museum in an old palace.
These arms consisted of cannon, blunderbuses, halberts,
and swords, which have been handed down the centuries
and which have finally been made a part of the arsenal
museum, :

Soon after the arms were put into the new quarters,

After that sorry column of last week, we've really got
gall to try another one on the student body. However, the
new Ed. said he had to have something to fill up space.
So here goes from your Davidson correspondent.

The Sunnyland Serenaders, beg pardon, E. B. Rob-
inson and his North Carolinians, crashed into the
limelight during the past week, when they played
over the radio from station WBT in Charlotte. The
boys really sounded right, and from all reports should
have a successful band next year, as nearly all of the
members are returning.

While on the subject of the orchestra, let me go back
to the Bowery Ball again. It’s over with now, but I just
can’t help saying a little about it. It was the finest bit of
entertainment that the Queen City has seen in many a
day. And everybody had a swell time. The girls were es-
pecially charming. This writer remembers especially one
very beautiful Titian type over on the left as you enter,
who was attired in green and white. None of these col-
leges around here get ’em any better than Davidson.

The pictures at the local cinema palace have been
a trifle poor of late. How about some real clever pic-
tures, Mr. Stough? And don’t forget that we'd like
to have “Grand Hotel” here before we go home.

The Pan-Hellenic team failed to award letters after
the recent shin-dig. They probably did like the Athletic
Association did in wrestling. All who deserved letters
were already lettermen from last time’s team, and conse-
quently no letters were needed.

The depression is getting everybody down, but Da-
vidson is putting up a brave fight. I notice Raymond
Harrison has in a new line of spring clothes. A couple
of Freshmen are going to get seersucker suits from
his establishment. I noticed a pair of lavender socks
in his show window. I don’t see why he doesn’t plant
pansies, and give away a boutonierre with each pair
of those gosh-awful socks. Go in and look at his seer-
suckers, They’re all the rage. (Not an Adv’t.)

Well, the Reporters’ Club ran off a pretty swanky
feed last Tuesday night around nine bells, and I found
out some of what I sank my two and a half in. The food
was great and the election was run off in fine style. It
has been noticed that since the club has taken the Fresh-
men in, that there are only about half a dozen people
on hand anymore to put out “The Davidsonian.”

This paper deeply regrets leaving out the name of
the Bowery Ball date of one of our more prominent
Juniors who is known for his masterly ability at using
the English language, and for his singing in his un-
surpassed basso profundo. We assure him that it shall
not occur again.

Well, the R. O. T. C. inspection is over now, and the
big boss appeared well pleased with the proceedings. In
fact, my company commander even said our company did
well. But, he was just being nice, because the line was
like a rainbow. We’re glad we weren’t in that picked
squad that did squad drill, or we don’t believe we should
have relished being in Jack McKinnon’s: platoon very
much,

The alumni page beat me to the advance dope on
the faculty-senior baseball game. This fracas is the
diamond classic of the south. Even so a dime is one
powerful big price in times like these. Aw, come on,
cut it down to a nickel, and you'll have twice as many
there. I was over talking to the arbitrator of the im-
pending imbroglio, who is also my faculty adviser, and
he seems to think that the “has-beens” will give the
youngsters a bit of trouble this year. Well, anyway,
it’ll be worth seeing, especially if they come down to
a nickel.

We notice that the May Frolic at Carolina is sched-
ulde tor April 29 and 30. A May day in June wouldn’t be
a bad idea. More power to ’em.

I got my keyhole eye to working, but for the life
of me I can’t get any dope on who’s going to be the
new “Y” secretary. What do you think?

I noticed in my old pal Johnnie Lake’s column last
issue an article reprinted from “The Salemite,” entitled,
“MY IDEAL WOMAN.” A few comments upon that
would not go amiss here. You can say what you like about
good looks not being everything, and you're right, they
aren't everything, but I’m taking this opportunity to let
you in on the fact that it really helps if they are good
looking.

Say, when do we get another issue of “The Yow,”
anyhow? We’re all for that publication, but we’d like
to see it at least try-yearly.

The R. O. T. C. inspection went over so big that the
colonel let the militiamen take the week off, that is, what
was left of it after they’d cleaned rifles, and let the in-
spector give them a looking over for about two hours last
Monday afternoon, We haven't got the official record of
it yet, but your Davidson correspondent, Walter Win-
chell’s protege, snooped around, and after pumping a few
of the staff officers, found out that the local aggregation
of rifle carriers and cannon fodder had received the “ex-
cellent” rating again, which is as high as is possible for
the boys to get.

The lights went out in “The Davidsonian” office
last week, and the managing editors were worried no
end for a moment, until one of the newly elected
members of the Reportrs’ Club, from down in the
eastern part of Tarheelia, saved the day by standing
in the middle of the floor and giving one of his usual
exhibitions of “shining.”

it was discovered that the building was rather weak and
was liable to collapse. Engineers quickly removed several
very heavy pieces of artillery in order to relieve the
strain. Other cracks in the walls appeared, so the whole
Museum was sent back to the basement rooms from

which it came. :
