THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 4, 1932

Glee Club Elections

The Davidson Glee Club recently
held a business meeting for the pur-
pose of electing officers for next year.
At this meeting W. W. Caligan was
elected president, Leland McKeithan
was chosen business manager, Shine
McMillan and Bill Blair were selected
to be vice-presidents, and Bill Mcll-
winen to serve as librarian. The offi-
cers this year were Bill Rule, presi-
dent; Caligan and George Bailey, vice-
presidents; George Pardington, busi-

| mess manager, and Ed McNair, libra-
“rian.

The Glee Club, under the retiring
officers, has completed a very satisfac-
tory season and it has high hopes of
even greater success next year.

INSPIRING MESSAGES

(Continued from page 1)
solution of uniting our hearts to fear God, to
humble ourselves before Him.

This has been the problem of the philosophers,
the divided heart. This also is seen throughout
the entire Bible, beginning at Eden, continuing
through Paul and the New Testament.

The speaker continued, showing how the |
Psalmist brought out three things in his pas- |
sage. He confessed a divided heart, yearned for |
a united one, and feared and submitted him- |
self to God.

This job of uniting the divided heart is one
for us all to consider; it is accomplished in
Christ alone. The results of curing the divided
heart he showed to be happiness, a cure for
half-heartedness, and good character.

He closed with an example of Phillip
Brookes’ speech to a man who never asked the
great preacher his problem but which was an-
swered in his conversation. There is only one
thing needed and that. is the thing requested by
the Psalmist, “Unite my heart to fear thy
name.”

Wednesday Night

Dr. Sam Glasgow closed the Spring Serv-
ices last Wednesday with an inspiring address
delivered in Chambers Auditorium. Dr. Glas-
gow is pastor of the First Presbyterian Church
in Savannah, Ga.

The service was opened by ‘Bill Rule with
two sacred hymns, after which two portions of
the 17th chapter of Matthew were read by Sam
Wiley as the scripture lesson. Short prayers
were delivered by Bill Flinn and Charles Spen-
cer. Special music was rendered by a quartet
composed of Hubert Morris, Dave McLean,
Frank Tucker and Buddy Robinson. Ed Mc-
Nair accompanied the quartet at the piano.

Dr. Glasgow took as his text, “The Light
of the Knowledge of the Glory of God in the
Face of Jesus Christ.” He claimed that no man
could be the same individual after going through
the recent Spring Services. These services
either won new souls to Christ or drove others
farther down into sin. They were much too pow-
erful, too gripping, to have no effect. Those
who advanced farther spiritually are fortunate,
for after all we have but one life to live, so why
not live it in the best way?

Going farther, Dr. Glasgow ventured that
the final seal of a man’s defeat is his own
heart. There is always a chance; we are natur-
ally built for high levels of life.

Then advancing the principal theme of his
talk, the speaker contended that character is the
principal means of judging a man. God de-
mands all righteousness and if not granted, He
invariably shows the sinner in his true light.
We must satisfy God to really succeed, and
this requires Christian living,

Dr. Glasgow said that the Ten Command-
ments were and are the basis of all righteous-
ness. All modern laws are derived from them.
The Ten Commandments insist implicitly upon
character. This is granted by all. Then isn’t it
quite logical to assume that, due to the fact
that our modern laws are derived from these
Commandments, that our modern laws them-
selves insist upon character ?

It is Dr. Glasgow’s belief that the reason
men fail to develop real character is because
real character is an expensive asset. It requires
courage, determination, complete and whole-
hearted co-operation, to attain character. This
co-operation must be with Jesus Christ. It is
Jesus who gives courage and it is Jesus who
enables us to maintain our courage when we
have once attained it.

In closing, Dr. Glasgow exhorted us to
Christian living, Proving the practicability of
this kind of life, and then he proved it was a
necessity to true happiness which all of us are
continuously seeking.

FINAL PLANS

(Continued from page 1)
sion. All men students must room in the dormi-
tories unless given permission to room else-
where. Rooms may be secured in several homes
in the village by women students. The college
makes a charge of twelve dollars and a half
($12.50) a person for a room in the dormitories
for the six weeks of the session and rooms in

i

DO YOU INHALE?

ee ~6\Why is this
vital question so much
avoided by other cigarettes?

BE since Lucky Strike created
that special process for purify-
ing fine tobacco and told the full
facts about cigarette smoking—
the industry has been in an uproar.
For Lucky Strike has dared to
mention things that were con-
sidered “taboo” in the cigarette
trade.

You may have noticed a striking
avoidance generally of the word
“inhale” in cigarette advertising.
Why? Goodness only knows!
For everybody inhales—knowingly

That’s why it’s all-important to be
certain that your cigarette smoke
is pure and clean—to be sure you
don’t inhale certain impurities.

Do you inhale? Lucky Strike has
dared to raise this vital question
—for it gives you the protection
you want... because certain im-
purities concealed in even the
finest, mildest tobacco leaves
are removed by Luckiés’ famous
purifying process. Luckies created
that process. Only Luckies have it!

or unknowingly! Every smoker
breathes in some part of the smoke
he or she draws out of a cigarette.

“It’s toasted”

Your Throat Protection

against irritation — against cough

0. K. AMERICA

TUNE IN ON LUCKY STRIKE—60 modern minutes with the world’s finest dance orchestras and famous
Lucky Strike news features, every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday evening over N. B. C. networks.

the village rent at about the same price.

The Davidson College Library, containing ap-
proximately 30,000 volumes, will be available
for the use of the students of the summer school.

According to the custom of the college, the
summer school students board at the hotel or
at one of the several private boarding houses
in Davidson. Board may be obtained at from
$5.00 to $6.00. :

Professor Fred K. Fleagle is director of the
summer session. Registration must be made
through him.

The regular college courses to be offered for
the summer session are as follows: Mathematics
1, Bible 2, English 2, Educational Psychology,
Educational Sociology, Political , Science 2,
American History, Biology, Physics 2 or 3 (the
one for which there is greater demand), and
French 1 or 2 (if there is sufficient demand).
Dr. Harding will also teach a course in the
appreciation of art if there are enough students
who desire it.

An additional course in accounting is to be
offered for the first term of the summer session.
The three weeks allotted to this course will
permit a study of the fundamentals of account-
ing and will include an understanding of these
fundamentals, the reading of a balance sheet,
profit and loss statement, and the place that
accounting occupies today in business and all
other activities. Three credit hours will be given
for this course, which will be taught by Profes-
sor Williams of the department of business ad-
ministration.

It is very important that students desiring
to take summer school work see Professor
Fleagle by the end of the week in order that
he may find out what courses are in demand.

|

N. C. STATE AND CAROLINA

(Continued from page 3)
bases: Mills, Mathis, Peacock 2, Dunlap, Croom,
Pattisal. Umpire: Brandon. Time of game; 2:15.

In the second encounter N. C. State’s batters
just took the offerings of Hurler Croker, and
knocked them to the four corners of the lot to
completely outclass the Wildcats 16 to 2, send-
ing them down in ignominious defeat. The six-
teen runs came as the result of thirteen safeties
and two Davidson errors.

The ’Cats were held completely in submissicn
while three of the ’Pack’s pitching staff, Lan-
ning, McLawhorn, and Seitz, took workouts on
the mdund. These three allowed six scattered
bingles among them, and completely checked
anything that Davidson had to offer in the way
of sluggers. Davidson's runs came in the sev-
enth, without a hit—two walks, an error, and
two outfield flies, bringing in the two inarkers.

The Terrors scored in every inning but the
third, connecting: with Croker at will until he
was sent to the showers at the close of the
fifth canto. Baily then took over the chunking
job for the ’Cats and let the State batters down

with three hits during the remaining four
frames.
Summary :

Davidson Ab R HOA E
Bernhardt, 3b --------__ 4-.0;-.0: 0 1: ~0
Blanton, 2b <-.-.- 2-4 422030) 2526" 4530
Mills, ss) 25-22-22 to Aci Oe 28 Ze 0
Mathissofsiesscss2 es halt Os Oe?
J. D. Morrison, If ------ 2 0 1 #1 += 0-0
Whitley, 1f ~-..--...-.- 2 -1.-0..0° 0.0
J. G. Morrison, rf ---___ Se Oo she lee)
Morris s2scen 2 Jeet | geo bees aug bee I)

xMcleeantii. 2a eeoe ane 102202 40% *.0:-20
Réabody sab: ==. ceeen se QO nOr ll 16 20
Crokens pseeess ses see 1—0—-0--1..1 9
Bailyeup! 222-222 cce sce hoe Ws Wee (v)
Motalsresse see esas S 2 69 KIO 2
x—Batted for Morris in 9th.
N. C. State Ab R H O A E
MODIS Gb ease e822 Siow eee co ale 2
Roachs.Gbveckes sagen ed oO © @ Wo W (
Gerockel by cet se Ae le 286490 20.
Senterial bs. 22 222 OF 07.0). 2. 07-0
Diikerects: ssecs esas Goel ale ales) 220,
Niefthey rch os eee OF 0) 0) 0051-0
Brown ss) 22 sss sees seso O63) 4) Gen),
Hullere coe coer ee SO) 2070
Millehee Guese sees oes 102 20 2)-207 40
McQuage, rf ---.---..- Aer lyiee2 hint Ones)
Bbeyernte sees e030 1 0 0
Lanning; p «2252225 225 Bo elie: 20, 154-0
Nelnsie|f.222 22-2252 Se 0) 0" 20 0)0
Wroodedbrosaiisi 3 sess Cele le leer 0
Weomanss abs 2s .ceee ee OF 0.30225 a 60
Brewer frees ee 20) 0rcn Oe 15.30
ZUANHIS) = see. See e a ie 8 107. 0-0r 207720
SOUZA) ea 00820508 1. a0
Totals sse os we eee 35,10) 16) 27,13 2S
z—Batted for Brewer in 5th.
Davidson: 22s ie sos oul 000 000 200— 2
Ni Ge State oot ee oak 420 331 12x—16
Home runs: Joel Morris, 2. Stolen bases:
Brown 2, Wood, Fuller, Roach. Double plays:
Brown to Gerock; Brown to Logans to Ge-
rock, Left on bases: Davidson 5; N: C. State
3. Base on bails: Lanning_1, Croker 3, McLaw-

horn 1, Seitz 2, Baily 3. Hits: off Lanning, 4 in \

5; Seitz, 2 in 2;’Baily, 3 in 4; McLawhorne,
none in 2; Sroker, 10 in 4. Hit by pitcher: by
Baily (Fuller). Wild pitch: Baily. Passed ball:
Morris. Winning. pitcher: Lanning. Losing
pitcher : Croker.

ALLAN FREW GIVES TALK

(Continued from pgae 1)

toward the goal which gavé him fame. Mr.
Frew said this was true with the youth of
Christ today. They must work more earnestly—
steadfastly toward their life’s work. “We must
look unto Jesus. Set our hearts toward Christ.
In order to be leaders now we must stead-
fastly look toward Jehovah.”

Gean Cannon, a member of the “Y” cabinet,
presided over the meeting. Special music was
rendered by Charles Reed and Byron Shriver,
accompanied at the piano=by Bill MclIlwinen.

‘Yowl’ to Appear
Thursday

On Thursday, May 6, the fourth and
final issue of the “Yowl” for the year
1931-1932 will appear.

It will be an exchange issue featur-
ing jokes from other schools. How-
ever, most of the publication will con-
sist of the work of the “Yow!” staff.

The cover for this issue was drawn
by Vereen M. Bell, retiring editor. This
is the last issue under the guidance of
the old staff.

