HOLIDAYS BEGIN
THURSDAY AT
NOON

The Davidsonian

SALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

VARSITY TRACK
MEET. WITH
FLORIDA TODAY

Vol. XIX

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 23,. 1932

No. 23

J. B. CLARK TO LEAD STUDENT BODY

Annual Junior Speaking
Appropriately Observed
By Students Last Week

Edward’s Collegians of Cincinnati Fur-
nish Music for the Three Social
Events Held

MISS GORRELL IS QUEEN

Freshman Track Meet and Varsity
Baseball Game Are Held

The thirty-eighth annual Junior Speaking was
held in Davidson and Charlotte last week-end,
March 18th and 19th. On Friday night, the
first feature of the program took place as an
entertainment in the Hotel Charlotte ballroom,
from 10 to 2. It was at this time that the fa-
mous “Sugar- Foot, Contest” took place. Sey-
eral couples entered the event, and Mr. W. F.
Mulliss, of Martinsburg, W. Va., and Miss
Sally Couch, of Charlotte, were declared the
winners. Both were presented with Seu Ae
gifts.

On Saturday afternoon from 4:30 to 7
the dansant was held in the Charlotte Armory.
The ballroom was all decorated in black and
white. The sides were of black and white parti-
tions, and black and white spiral streamers com-
ing from the sides to a high ring in the cente
completed the motif.

On the evening of the same day another
Soiree was given in the Armory. It was at this
time that the Queen of Junior Speaking was
crowned. The ballots for the most beautiful
young lady were cast on Friday night, and the
majority were for Miss Margaret Gorrell,
, Winston-Salem. The queen walked to her
throne, which was formed of black and white,
through an avenue of black and white stream-
ers, and was there crowned with a golden coro-
net. This entertainment lasted from 9 to 12.

The music for all of the entertainments was
furnished by Edward's Collegians of Cincinnati
with Phil Edwards, director, at the piano.

In addition to the other events, a triple track
meet was held Friday afternoon between the
Davidson Freshmen, Charlotte High and
Greensboro High. Charlotte was the victor with
a bare margin of one point over Davidson. On
Saturday afternoon, a baseball game was staged
between Davidson and Union Theological Sem-
inary. The latter was named victorious,

Junior Speaking is a traditional affair, which
was started in 1894 by the Junior class. At that
time any member of the class was eligible to
participate in the competitive speaking. The
speeches were not very lengthy, but it was con:
sidered a great honor to win in the competi-

(Continued on page 5)

Davidson Has Part
In Recent “Y” Drive

The Davidson Y. M. C. A. sent several depu-
tations last week to the city and county schools
of Charlotte and Mecklenburg County as speak-
ers in the “Come Clean” campaign put on by
the Charlotte Y. This campaign is staged every
year by that organization for the purpose of
impressing on the boys of high school and gram-
mar school ages the great importance of clean
living, clean speech, and clean thought.

Two deputations were chosen by the Y, one
to speak in the city schools, while the other
was to visit a large number of the county
schools. The first group was composed of eight
men: Frank Buckner, Jerome Clark, Jack Mc-
Kinnon, Cal Kuykendall, Bill Matthews, Charlie
Myers, Bruce Peabody and Bill Rule; the sec-
ond of only six men: Paul Brown, E. L. Powell,
Allen Mebane, Roger Enloe, Sam Wiley and
Nat Spier.

Another deputation, consisting of Bill John-
son and Lynn Huie, was sent to the Charlotte
Y. M. C. A. Sunday afternoon to speak to the
boys there on a similar subject.

In their talks these men stressed such points
as the necessity of clean living in early and
later life, clean living and character, urged
clean sports, clean habits, and clean books, and
last urged loyalty to convictions. Together they
delivered talks in over forty different schools
during the whole campaign, which began Mon-
day the 14th and ended Tuesday the 22nd.

The Statesville schools have requested the
Davidson Y to send the same deputations to
them to help put on a similar campaign in and
around Statesville.

Ol lister, but hesitated for two reasons.

Lorraine Sanders Is
Speaker at Vespers

Last Sunday the student body had the pleas-
ure of hearing Mr. Lorraine Sanders of Union
Theological Seminary at “Y” vespers. Mr. San-
ders talked informally on his reasons for attend-
ing the seminary and on his present profession.
By relating his experience, he hoped to guide
and direct not only those who have the call
to the ministry, but also those who receive ‘the
call to lead Christian lives.

For the scripture, a selection from the hymnal,
Psalm 27, was read responsively. The
was led by John Howard.

singing

After a prayer by Sam Wiley and Roger
Enloe, the speaker was introduced by Nat Spier.
Before entering the Union Theological Sem-
inary, Mr. Sanders graduated at Hampden-Syd-
ney, where he was a three-letter man. There
he was also president of the Senior class.

Having grown up with the thought of the
seminary and Davidson being connected, he con-
sidered it a privilege to be here for the first
time. When he told a friend that he had a
speech prepared to deliver the students, he
was advised to throw it away, whereupon he
did so and delivered an informal address. He
gave a resume of his life, so that possibly the
young men in the audience might profit by his

r | experience.

He lived normal life youth, going
through all the ups and downs which a young
man has. Having finally arrived at college, he
entered just as a great many students, not
knawing what ‘he was going to do or be in
later life. He felt the utge to become a min-
First, he
was so interested in athletics and other activi-
ties that he never thought very deeply of the
subject. And secondly, because the candidates
to the ministry whom he knew seemed sancti::
monious. On finishing college, he entered va-
rious professions for which he thought he was

a as a

»| best suited, such as coaching and teaching. But

the urge continued to hang on to him, until
finally the call came so strongly that he could

withstand it no longer. He realized that God |

wanted him as one of His servants, so he en-
tered the field of religious teaching.

He then addressed particularly the Freshmen
and Sophomores who had not determined their
life’s work, saying that the call to the ministry
or religious work would come to some of them,
and for them to in no way repel or hinder it.
It may be contrary to one’s temperament, and |
may come most unexpectedly, but in any case
he should not attempt to fight it. He hoped that |
all those who would not be privileged to admin-
ister God’s Word, would receive the call to lead |
Christian lives. No matter what profession once |
might enter, he will at some time receive that
call. May he heed it and welcome it, and cherish
it as a blessing all his life.

Nominations For “Y”

Offices Held Friday

Last Friday morning in chapel, the nomina-
tions for the president and two vice-presidents
of the Y. M. C. A. for the next school year
were held. The nominees for. president, chosen
from the present Junior class, were:
Brown, Jr., Atlanta, Ga.; Robert L. McCallie, |
Chattanooga, Tenn.; W. A. L. McKeithan,
Aberdeen, N. C., and Charles F. Myers, Greens- |
boro,

two of whom will be elected, were: Lyman W.

Clardy, Talladega, Ala.; Frederick R. Helle- |
gers, Passaic, N. J.; William T. Johnson, Char-

lotte, N. C.; Rufus C. Morrow, Jr., Zitacuaro,

Michoacan, Mexico; Edward L. Powell, Mobile, |
Richmond, |
Va. The vice-president nominees were from the |

Ala., and William M. Thompson,

present Sophomore class.

In the balloting Saturday W. A. L. Mc-)

Keithan was eleminated from the presidential

race and Lyman Clardy, Frederick Hellegers, |

and William Johnson were eliminated in the

voting for vice- -presiden’s Tuesday morning an- |
other balloting was run, but the results could |
not be learned before the Davidsonian went to|

press.

Instead of shortening the working day (the

obvious thing to do) we go on giving all the;|
leisure to an increased and increasing number |

of parasitic people—George Bernard Shaw.

Paul F. |

N. C. The nominees for vice-president, |

JEROME B. CLARK

Lafferty and West Are

Chosen Vice-Presidents

Mackorell of Freshman Class is Chosen
as Secretary and Treasurer

The election of officers
held last week by the

for next year was
Davidson student body.
For the completion of the election of president
and the two vice-presidents, three ballots were
necessary, while the secretary
was elected on the scond ballot.

and treasurer

The following were nominated by the Student
Council Nominating Committee for president
of the student body: Jerome B. Clark, Fayette
villé; Wlliam A. Flinn, Atlanta, Ga.; Robert
L. McCallie, Chattanooga, Tenn., and I, Bruce
Peabody, Charlotte. W. Allen Mebane, Burling
ton, was nominated from the floor, Jerome
Clark was elected on the third ballot, Flinn and
McCallie having been eliminated on the first
ballot, and Mebane on the second.

Clark is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon
social fraternity. He is also a member of the
| Beaver Club, of the Student Council, of the var-
jsity football squad, and is president of the
Junior class. He played on the Freshman foot-
ball and baseball teams and was vice-president
of the Sophomore class.

The following were nominated for the office
of vice-president: William T. Johnston, Char-
otte; John W. Lafferty, Jr., Rome, Ga.; John
|G. O'Keefe, Bluefield, W. Va., and Julian West,
| Barium Springs. Edward L. Powell, Mobile,
| Ala., was nominated from the floor, Lafferty
| was elected second vice-president on the third
| ballot, while Johnson and O’Keefe were elim-
inated. on the first ballot, and Powell on the
| third.

Lafferty is a member of the Phi Delta Theta
social fraternity. He was a member of the
| Freshman tennis and basketball teams, is
| varsity letterman in basketball, a member of the
| Beaver Club, vice-president of the: Sophomore
\class, and a member of the Student Council.
| West is a member of the Beaver Club, var-
sity football and baseball squads, and is secre-
tary and treasurer of the student body. He was
}a member of the Freshman baseball team, and
| captain of the Freshman football team.

The following men were nominated for the
combined office of secretary and treasurer:
Dewey M. Hutchins, Lexington; John C. Mack-
orell, Hickory, and Joseph A. C. Wadsworth,
Charlottte. Mackorell was elected on the sec-
ond ballot, Hutchins having been eliminated on
| the first ballot.

Mackorell is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha
social fraternity and played on the Freshman
football and baseball teams.

a

Courtney MacConnell

Courtney MacConnell, a member of
the student body and the son of Dr.
J. W. MacConnell,

jured when the motorcycle he was rid-

was seriously in-

ing crashed into a car about 11:30
Sunday morning. The left side of his
| face was smashed in by the terrific im-
pact. X-ray pictures revealed that he
suffered skull fractures in two places.
|| His left jawbone was broken in three
places, and one rib on his left side was
fractured. Painful lacerations on his
|| left hip were also suffered, and several
of the muscles of his back were torn
|| loose. At the time that the Davidsonian
|| went to press his condition was con-
“sidered critical.

A

Athletic Night Held
On Monday Evening

Davidson College’s annual Athletic Night was
held in the Maxwell-Chambers Auditorium last
Monday night, and was featured by a talk by
Mr. Joe Johnston of Barium Springs, who spoke
in the place of Colonel Dan McGugin, athletic
director at Vanderbilt. The program included
the presentation to the college of victory foot-
balls, awarding of certificates in football, bas-
ketball and wrestling, and the awarding of gold
footballs to the members of the 1931 football
team.

To open the program, Dr.
Davidson Bible department,

of the
led the assembled

Richards,

group in prayer. This was followed by the sing-

ing of “O Davidson,” which was led by Brooke

Allen, newly elected cheerleader. Allen L.
“Buck” Mills, president of the Davidson Ath-
letic Association, presided over the program,
and presented Dr. J. M. Douglas, who, present-
ed football certificates to the following: R. Z,
Johnston, Calvin Kuykendall, Hal Wilson, Rich-
ard Whitfield, John D. McConnell, Bruce Pea-
Mick Bradshaw, R. W. Gorrell, and J. H.
McKinnon. He gave out basketball certificates
as‘follows: J. G. Dunklin, H. K. Boucher, John
Lafferty, J. M. Holland, T. L. Patrick and R.
Kk. Morton. Alex St. Clair, manager the
1932 wrestling team, was awarded his certificate.

body,

of

At the same time If. D. Kuykendall, Jr, re-
ceived his certificate for services rendered ‘as’
varsity cheerleader for 1931-32,

Lieutenant-Colonel W. R. Scott than present-
ed gold footballs to all members of the 1931
football team. They were, in
named as receiving certificates,
S. King, Steve Brown, U. B. Gardner, Jack
Waener, L. S. Raker, captain; C. W. Pearce,
D. M. McQueen, G. L. Mathis, and P. M. Con-
way. A special football, known as the “Wildcat
Football,” which is given to a man who is a
real Wildcat, and is interested vitally in David-
son and her teams, was presented by the “D”
Club to Dr. M. I. Sentelle, dean of students.

Professor Fleagle presented the Physical Im-
provement trophy to J. M. Smith of the Fresh-
man class, who had added 21 5-8 inches to his
muscular development, and 23 pounds in weight,
during his first semester at Davidson. Professor
Wood then presented*the gymnastic competition
trophy to Paul Brown, a Junior.

Mills then asked Dr. Archibald Currie to
introduce the guest-speaker of the evening, Mrr.
Joe Johnston. In a very witty speech, Dr. Cur-
rie presented Mr. Johnston to his audience. Mr.
Johnston's speech was highly enjoyable, and
seemed to be charged with a sparkling wit that
held the attention of the crowd throughout. His
talk was short and to the point, and was mere-
ly a few sound suggestions for success in life

addition to those
A. L. Mills, D.

along all lines. These he put over in such a
pleasing and interesting style that his speech
made a great impression on everyone. He said
to always play the game fairly, so that if you
meet an opponent in later life, you can always |
look him in the face. He also pointed out to!
those who had played their last game, to take

(Continued:on page 6) |

Professor Heck, of
State, Speaks Here

Professor Charles M. He M. Heck, head of the de-
partment of physics of North Carolina State
College, gave a most interesting and instructive |
lecture here last night. He came under the
‘auspices of the General Lecture Committee of
Davidson College. The subject of his lecture
was “Exploring the Universe.” It was illustrat-
ed in an unusual and entertaining way.

Professor Heck received his A.B. degree from
Wake Forest and since then has done several
years of graduate work here in America and
‘also in Germany. He is much in demand as a
ljecturer and speaker. His main field of research
at the present time is radio and he is in co-
ordination with the Bureau of Standards. One
of his achievements was to promote the teach- ;
ing of physics in high schools. He has also done
much wat for the North Carolina Academy oi
Science.

Professor Heck is an intimate friend of Dr:
Hoad and is well known to all the men of the
science department.

The students should also be interested to
know that the lathe which was recently given
to the science department by Mr. R. Hayes has

been installed.

i} archaeologists.

Ce Evangelistic Spring

Services Will Begin At
Church, Sunday, April 24

Outstanding Leaders of the Southern
Presbyterian Church to Lead
Program This Year

FOUR MEN TO SPEAK

Dr. W. T. Thompson Will Open Church
Services Sunday Morning

On Sunday morning, April

24, the Y. M.
>. A. Spring Evangelistic

G Service will begin.
Departing from the usual custom of having one
man conduct every the “Y"” has ob-
tained four of the most outstanding and brilliant
men of the Southern Presbyterian Church to
lead the services, one on each day.

Dr. Toly Thompson, of the Union Theolog-
ical at Richmond, will conduct. the
morning church on April 24. He will also lead
the “Y" vesper the evening. Dr.
Thompson has been to conduct thes
University

service,

Seminary
service in
selected
baccalaureate sermon at Princeton
this spring.

On Monday night,
he held by Dr.
Dr. Myers
Church,

The following day Dr.

the service will
of Greensboro,

the
Charlie
is a

25th,
Myers,
well-known leader of our
Henry Wade DuBose,
of Spartanburg, will deliver two addresses,

in the

_one
morning at the chapel hour and one in
the evening. Dr. DuBose has one of the most
attractive personalities any the
Southern Presbyterian Church,

Dr. Samuel McPheeters Glasgow, of Savan-
nah, Ga., will close the series on Wednesday,
delivering one address at chapel and one that
night. Dr. well known many
members of the student body.

“Above all things in this series,’ the Y. M.
C, A. “wants to present Christ to the student
body in the most attractive way possible and has
chosen these four outstanding men of the South-
ern Church that they believe present Him in all
His fullness and reality.” Each of the four
speakers will have a different angle on Christ
to present to the students. These different pres-
entations should show Christ to the student body
in a truer and more wholesome view.

Dr. Ralph McGoffin

Speaks on Classics

of man in

Glasgow is io

Dr. Ralph V. McGoffin, head of the depart-
ment of Glassics at New York University in
New York City and past president of the
Archaeological Institute of America, addressed”
the and faculty at the
chapel period on Saturday, March 19th. :

The speaker is one of the world’s foremost

Davidson student body

He obtained his early training
at the University of Michigan, and later studied
at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, Md.

Dr. McGoffin has carried on excavations in
Italy, Greece, Egypt, and in various parts of
Asia. He has been elected a life member of the

Archaeological Institute of Germany, command-
(a of the Order of the Saviour in Greece, and
royal commander of the Crown of Italy.

Dr. McGoffin’s subject for the talk was “The
cure and Lore of Archaeology.” He showed how
the modern development of archaeology had
made it possible to establish the age and period
of events referred to in history, but not defi-
nitely placed. To illustrate this point Dr. Me-
Goffin cited a modern instance. He ‘told graph-
ically of his unusual experience in the subter-
ranean burial ground of an old Italian village,
and of finding evidence which proved that Rome
was founded two hundred and seventy years
earlier than the usually accepted date. He also
showed that other sciences like geology aided
archaeology in its discoveries.
McGoffin, the Australian
secret ballot originated in early Roman polit-
ical and the so-called modern safe-
ty pin was in general use among the early

According to Dr.

assemblies,

, Romans.

The majority of good leaders have always
been on the side of the oppressed—Aldous
Huxley.

If we want polygamy, let’s have it, but let’s
not camouflage it as monogamy.—Bishop Booth
of Vermont.
