THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 9, 1932

~ The Davbidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS: OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents er copy; $2.00 the Col
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

.Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

EDWARD O. GUERRANT Editor-in-Chief

M. MANSON

>

1

EDITORIAL STAFF

L. W. CLARDY. Managing Editor
A. F. SCHENCK. Managing Editor
W. M. THOMPSO Managing Baier
JACK_WILLIAMS. Managing itor
ODI CASALI Athletic Editor
. E. LAKE Exch Editor
. W. WHITE F Edit
. S. GAMBLE ae -Feature Editor
i T. GOODYKOONTZ...-------------------- Contributing Editor
. A. HANCOCK...-. Review Editor
D. D. McBRYDE te Editor
R. L. McCALLIE te Editor
C. F. MYERS. A te Editor
B. B. SUGG A te Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
W. T. JOHNSON. Assistant B nag’
A. H. SON A t B Manager
ALVIN BAYER, JR Solicitor
H; B. DANIEL Solicitor
J. M. DOUGLAS Solici
G. L. GREEN_- Solicitor
W._P. SPRUNT Solicitor
7oRY TAYLOR. cous ce. Solicitor
. A. C. Wao ORTH Solicitor
. E. WHIT Sol
REPORTERS’ CLUB
{: E. KE... President
. S. GAMBLE Vice-President
LEWIS GREGG etary-Treasurer
M. W. ALDERMAN L.. McCLINTOCK
R. H. ALDERMA) iy L._ McILWINEN
G. E. BAILY E. F, McPHAIL
D. B. BAILEY W. C. NEILL
B. C. BARNES W. _L. NORTHEN
. E. BOWERS C. E. NORVELL
. E. BOYD E. L WELL
. H. COVINGTON S. P. PRESTON
S. K. EATON P. M. ROGERS
J. B. Herein B. L, ROSE
G. L. GULLETT: T. H. SUTTON
gocks HELLINGER N. W. WALLACE
. C. HENRY K. D. WEEKS
k A. HUNTE W. R. WARD
. E. LORRAINE W._T. THOMPSON
T. F. WOOD eo W. WHIT
W. F. MULLISS PRATT-THOMAS

___ NOVEMBER 9, 1932

“Yearn to the greatness of nature
Rally the good in the depths of thyself.”

—Matthew Arnold.
PSCSRSReIOE » estat a

THOUGHTS IN PASSING

This past Sunday could have well been called For-
eign Mission Sunday. Dr: J. K. Taylor, missionary to
China, spoke at the morning services and Dr. Darby
Fulton, Executive Secretary of Foreign Missions in
the Southern Presbyterian Church, spoke at “Y” Ves-
pers and at the evening church service. The talks
were splendid.

SS»)

We should show every courtesy to the returning
alumni on Homecoming Day. They were once stu-
dents here like we are and all our hospitality should
be extended to them.

——— | oe

We wish to urge the student body to attend the
annual Fall Services of the Y. M. C. A., starting here
next Sunday, the 13th, and running through Tuesday,
the 15th...The Rev. Dwight Chalmers is,,.recognized

as one of the outstanding ministers of the Southern ~

Presbyterian Church and undoubtedly will have an
inspiring message for everyone of us.

———EE—E)

With V. P. I. out of the way it looks like Ten-
nessee will be Southern Conference champions unless
Auburn can beat the Georgia Bulldogs.

——EEE——— ee

Our eleven should be highly commended for their
performance this last Saturday despite the out
layed excellent football and naturally we
think the result should have been different. .

ey ee ar,
The defensive work of Willson in backing up the

line was brilliant, and his offensive was none the less
spectacular. “Snozzle” played a bang-up game.
ERENT Bai , erases!

The fine showing of the Wildcats against State
should make predictions as to the outcome of this
Saturday’s game against Carolina rather difficult. We
believe, however, that if the same brand of football
is played this Saturday as was played last Saturday,
we should emerge victorious.

———__)D_ —__.

Tennessee has a mighty good chance at getting the
Rose Bowl game as Pitt has been tied and Michigan
has been held to low. scotes by comparatively insig-
nificant teams. Colgate is the only other luminary
left in the East, and we believe the call will once
more go to a Southern team.

———D.

The work of the Red and Black Masquers should
be commended. Their activities on the campus should
merit more notice from the student body.

—D.

The State game was a costly one for us. McElrath,
West, Caton, and Potter all had to be removed from
the game because of injuries.

—D.

The social activities. for this coming week-end
should provide a very enjoyable time for us, since
these are the first dances we have had in two months
of school.

HOMECOMING DAY

Homecoming Day on Saturday presents a
great opportunity for two groups of Davidson
men: to the alumni it furnishes an occasion
for revisiting the old campus and for renewing
the ties of friendships which have. here been
formed; to the students it gives a chance for
welcoming the graduates to their Alma Mater.
The value of such a day cannot be over-em-
phasized. Davidson has been fortunate in
maintaining a closeness of relationship with
her alumni in the past. That she continue to
do so in the future is imperative to her wel-
fare. Homecoming Day, therefore, as a fac-
tor in the strengthening of these ties has been
and must continue to be fostered as one of the
outstanding occasions of the year.

This season the alumni office has issued in-
vitations to the hundreds of Davidson men
who as graduates have so well represented the
college in various parts of the country. Many
will respond to this invitation, and it is David-
son’s duty to make this a worthwhile and en-
joyable_occasion..There-has-been a program
planned with this end in view which includes

an alumni luncheon and the game with Caro-

lina. Such a program, however, can only aug-
ment the pleasures which would come natur-
ally. Walking again on the old campus and
through the familiar buildings will mean much
to those who return. Most of all the fellow-
ship with those with whom they spent their
college days will bring them pleasure. In truth
these are the things which make such a time
worthwhile for the graduates, and it would
seem that the completeness of the occasion
leaves little for the present student to do.
However, this is not the case. The student
body will have the opportunity of playing an
important part. By exhibiting a spirit of
friendliness and hospitality, of willingness and
co-operation, it can do much to make Home-
comng Day more complete.

ARMISTICE DAY

Fourteen years ago the greatest cataclysm
which this world has ever witnessed came to
anend. Millions of lives had been snuffed out
the four preceding years and billions of dol-
lars in munitions, and other supplies had
drained the entire world of its vitality and re-
sources. Germany on the point of collapse was
forced to surrender and the rest of the world
reeling from exhaustion was overjoyed to
cease hostilities.

The Treaty of Versailles which closed the
war. for the German nation in their relations
to the Allies was so stringent and unreason-
able that the German nation considered se-
riously the idea of renewing hostilities, but
soon they realized that his would be humanly
impossible. For the last fourteen years the
whole world along with Germany has’ been
suffering from this self-inflicted treaty. Be-

cause of the intense hatred which France had

for Germany this treaty was made so ruth-
less, but it has come to the point where the
treaty is nearly a boomerang. The German
nation in the summer of 1931 was on the verge
of collapse financially, and she was saved only
by the Hoover moratorium, The'present ene-
mies of Germany realize that they will defeat
their own purpose if Germany is insolvent.
The rest of the world are coming to realize
that the effects of this war are much farther
reaching than anyone could have expected
fourteen years ago. It has taken the world
this length of time to realize the true extent
of the war and as one ablé’statesman said re-
cently, the war just ended last summer at
Geneva when the representatives of Germany,
France, England, and the other major powers
came to the realization that it would be utterly
futile to stretch Germany’s war debt out for
fifty more years as stipulated in the Young
plan. Although France may not have any
more affection than formerly for the German
péople, she has enough business sense to know
that the bankruptcy of Germany would have
disastrous results all over Europe and very se-
riously-affect her along with the rest. Because
of this agreement reached last summer the sit-
uation has been greatly relieved and.no doubt
the dawn of a better day of international
agreement is in sight for the first time in
eighteen years.

November the eleventh is a day set aside
to commemorate the close of this war, but it
should also be ‘a constant reminder of the fu-
tility’ of war. Those who were in this past
war never wish to engage in another one, and
this day should keep future generations from
the desire to enter war by retaining the hor-
rors of this past-one-fresh in their minds.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

University of North Carolina

Herbert Hoover won the nation-wide Presidential
poll over Franklin D. Roosevelt, by a majority of
10,000. The final count was: Hoover, 28,180; Roose-
velt, 17,712; Thomas, 10,490, and Foster 715. In this
poll the large universities of the South with the ex-
ception of Duke, supported Roosevelt; the East,
North and West supported Hoover. Norman Thomas,
the Socialist candidate, carried Columbia University,
New York University, University of Colorado, St.

WORLD SPECTATOR

I SAW

In order to use the surplus of corn and thus to help
the market, an investigation is being held to determine
the possibility of using ethyl alcohol distilled from
corn as an ingredient in high-power motor fuel. The
tests are being held by the farm bureau of a county
in Illinois, and it is said that similar experiments
have been tried at various times in Europe with suc-
cess.

The town council at Havre may have to call upon a
modern “Pied Piper” to rid that port of rats, There
ate two kinds of rats at Havre, the black Oriental
rats and the brown Continental ones. The rodents,
besides-carrying disease, have very peculiar appetites.
The Ofiental rats thrive on lead pipe, while both va-
rieties can make a fine meal off of the insulation
around electric cables. The appearance of Oriental
rats in a European port is unique, since they are gen-
erally never seen west of Singapore. The rats have
a peculiar habit of deserting all west-bound ships at
Singapore and boarding an east-bound vessel. For
some reason Havre secured a shipload of these rats,
but why they failed to disembark at Singapore, and
why Oriental. rats have the general habit of doing
so,.is something for study by students of rat psy-
chology.

The earthquakes frequently felt in the Pacific
Ocean and the surrounding areas have been studied
and analyzed, with the result that Dr. Gutenburg,
Professor of Geophysics at the California Institute
of Technology, has advanced a theory as to their
origin. Dr. Gutenburg brings up the old theory that
the Moon came from the Pacific Ocean, and throws
new light upon the theory by explaining that the
earthquakes are a reaction of the old “wound” in the
earth’s crust. He stated that the deep-rooted origin
of the earthquakes was caused by the mixture of cur-
rents, of extremely hot materials in the core of the
earth. They become crossed up when they approach
the region of the “wound” caused by the secession
of the Moon. Another theory as to the cause of
earthquakes which is advanced by many scientists is
that the piling up of great masses in one spot tends
to press the earth’s material inward at that partic-
ular spot. This causes a pressure which is relieved
when an earthquake occurs at another spot, expand-
ing outward. Thus a form of see-saw is in effect.
It has been prophesied that the great mass of build-
fngs in New York City would create a pressure so
that finally the city would fall in, while another por-
tion of the earth would bulge out, the change to be
called an earthquake. Of course all these ideas are
only theories, as they have not yet been proved as
fact.

The discovery of a pair of ancient snow goggles in
an ancient Eskimo grave in the Arctic has led au-
thorities on the subject to believe that at one time the
Eskimo was highly civilized. The goggles in question
consisted of a small strip of ivory with narrow slits.
The Eskimos at the present time use goggles some-

what _similar_to_the_ones_found-_in_the_ancient_grave,.
‘but the authorities still believe that the ancient race

was vastly superior to the present tribes of Arctic
residents. It is thought that the Eskimo originally
came from Asia, bringing with him the Asiatic civil-
ization, and in the hard climate of the North, he lost
his culture by degrees, until he is now almost a bar-
barian. It is thought that at one time the Eskimo
was the highest civilized of any of the native Ameri-
can races.

The old rule, condemning the ending of a sentence
with a preposition, may be dear to the heart of a
great many, but Dr. Walter Barnes, Professor of
English at New York University, has no great love
for this rule. He stated that a preposition is some-
times a very good final word for a sentence. Of
course Dr. Barnes admits that at times the use of
final prepositions may be extremely wrong, but at

Louis University, and Colorado School of Mines.

When ‘this print reaches you, the results of the ©

election will be known; -here’s-hoping-that-they—aren’t
like this poll. If you wish to see this poll you may

look on the back page of the Carolina Daily Tarheel,

October 28, 1932,

Emory
The Emory Wheel tells us that there is an alarm-
ing increase in the number of unemployed in the for-
eign countries of the world:

on Sept., 1932 Sept., 1931
Gérmaty.c=-5352552252 283 5,261,000 4,214,765
Great Britain se soc es 2,946,808 2,813,163
Italy" 964,509 663,352
Japan 443,109 401,415
Czechoslovakia —--------- 459,406 215,040
Bel gitar ee ice ee 341,326 167,287
Hrance—<s- sscccccann cece. 289,479 54,569
Netherlands ------------- 161,026 70,479

Tulane

Tulane’s great record on the gridiron is published
in the Tulane Hullabaloo of October 28, 1932.. They
went, through 35 southern games straight without
suffering defeat..

Duke |

The Duke Freshmen have at least one good reason
for wanting to beat Carolina this year and_that is
that if the Blue Devils frock the Tarheels their caps
will be taken off for the remainder of the year.

_a Fresh turn in some material for “The Yowl.”
Editor Reeves Pope said, “But I don’t see the joke!”
The Fresh replied, “Oh, that comes in if you use it.”

. several members of our faculty having a game
of golf “Wednesday afternoon. I hear that some of
them are real golfers. (Oh, somebody told me!)

the initiates to O. D. K. blindfolded before be-
ing “allowed to enter the hall at their meeting. Some
of them looked awfully scared. If there was any pad-
dling I am sure Flake Laird and a few of the other
faculty members could make quite an impression.

. . politics wax hot at the polls yesterday. I hear
Dr. Cumming voted the Socialist ticket ; Prof. Goldiere
the Republican, and I wonder what ticket Dr. Currie

voted?

.-Ed Holt sleepily emerge from a first period
class Wednesday morning. He said the Pills Brothers
practiced until the wee sma’ hours in his room the
night before. And so it goes.

> Psst Ear

. Davids Bluemopen a letter at the P. O. contain-
ing $5.00 a roomie borrowed at P. J. C. almost two
years ago. It almost gives me hope for my room-
mate.

. Richard Vowles waiting until 7:30 for the radio
program from Montreal. He is taking French this
year in high school and enjoys hearing this program.

> McNeil and Jenkins meet on the library steps
Wednesday morning and stand for a full five minutes
shaking hands. I know jit was exactly five minutes
—on the dot, because I had nothing else to do and
timed them.

. Gus Maynard literally swamped after chapel Sat-
urday. He made the offer of a free ride to Greens-
boro to anybody who wanted to drive up with him.

. little Billy Merchant come in second in the
cross-country meet with Guilford Friday. He ran a
good race in the cake meet, too, and I hear with
delicious looking cakes to choose from, selected a box
of stationery. I haven’t been able to find out her
name, Watch for next week!

. a good game of football in Charlotte Saturday
afternoon between Davidson and State. I also no-
ticed the debbies selling pop corn. As far as I’m
concerned, they could sell me anythnig. And did you
notice how expert they were in catching those
nickels !

. the whole village stirred up and it’s not plowing
time either. It’s who writes this column??7?7? [ must
admit E-cover the news so thoroughly that it may
séem that only a dean could know all I know. I have
such sharp eyes nearly all the doors around my way
are scratched up around the keyholes. Get this! I
hear that one bright pupil the other day in Philosophy
tofd Dr. Sentelle a.stoic was a bird. How Em-Bar-
rissing !

TIP POFF.

other times the preposition is the natural word to
use at the end. An example of how the use of the
final preposition is extreme is shown: A maid, who
had been reading aloud to her mistress from a rather
dry book later told the cook, “I can’t understand why
Mistress chose such a book to be read to out of for!”

The hunger marchers of England who gathered in
London as lobbyists of Parliament represent some-
what the same style of lobbying as that tried by the
Bonus Expeditionary Forces in Washington this past
summer. Both groups attempted to force the legis-
lative body to change its attitude, but in both cases
neither has been successful; It must be said that up
to the present time the English marchers have been
more orderly, and the British army has not yet been
called out, as was the case with the American group.
The-English marchers are now going back to their
homes, obtaining: transportation from private individ-
uals of London, and not even having their fares paid
by the government. :

The British Navy would eventually become a mere
dummy navy if the suggestion of the British Treas-
ury were carried out. _The Treasury offered the sug-
gestion that the navy put to sea for its maneuvers
with some of the guns lacking range-finding equip-
ment,.since the’ installation of this equipment would
take both time and money. The Treasury suggested
that “it did not matter whether the guns in the ships
could be fired or not.”

All the trouble arose when the Admiralty ordered
new range finders for some of the batteries on two
of the largest vessels. The new instruments had not
been able to become perfected ‘when the time for sail-
ing arrived. The Admiralty wanted to make a set
of the imperfect instruments for the guns so that
they would be able to shoot the guns, even though
they were not accurate. As soon as the new instru-
ments: could be perfected, the old ones were to be
discarded. The Treasury wanted the ships to sail
without the temporary inaccurate instruments and
thus have part of the guns useless.| They said that
there ‘was really no need at the present moment for
having the guns ready to shoot, since there was. no

ger of immediate war. Thus the price of a whole

t of instruments would be saved.
