SOPHOMORE
WEEK-END DEC. 16-17

Vol. XX

The Mavidsonian

Alenda Lux Gbi Orta Libertas

HEAR
PROF. BAGBY

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER’, 1932

No. 13

Newly Formed Spanish
Fraternity Issues Bids
to Prominent Students

Seven Juniors and Eight Shopomores
Are Honored by Invitations to
the Club

TO BE INITIATED TONIGHT

Bixler Recently Elected President, Mc-
Bryde, Secretary, and Fleagle,
Treasurer

The newly organized Spanish Club, under
the supervision of Sigma: Delta Pi, national
honorary Spanish society, has recently ex-
tended invitations to fifteen men. These men
will be initiated tonight. This club, which
was organized this year, is for, those men
who take an interest in Spanish, and who
intend to pursue their courses in Spanish
further, in the hope of being taken into the
Sigma Delta Pi fraternity.

The men who were honored by receiving
invitations to this club are: Bill Bogart, Fred
McPhail, R. W. Ogburn, R. E. Woodside,
Jack Williams, Bill Reid, Matt Alderman,
A. M. Cunningham, Thomas Miller, R. G.
Orr, Blanton Little, W. L. Shewmate, Odi
Casali, Ed Humphrey and Fred Smyre. These
men will be taken into the Spanish Club,
and if in the future their interests and ac-
complishments warrant it, will become mem-
bers of Sigma Delta Pi.

The officers of this club, who were re-
cently elected are: Frank Bixler, President;
Duncan McBryde, Secrefary, and Fred
Fleagle, Treasurer.

The club-expects to-be very successful in
its purpose, and hopes to greatly increase
the interest in Spanish among the student
body, as well as further the pursuit of ad-
vanced Spanish knowledge.

Regular Meeting of
Pre-Med Fraternity
Held Friday, Dec. 29

Avery Pattonand Alex Little Main
Speakers of Evening

The Pi Delta Alpha pre-medical fraternity
held its regular meeting in Dr. Lyon’s class-
room last Friday night. Features of the
program were talks by Avery Patton and
Alex Little on new drugs discovered by a
group of South Carolina students, one of
whom is a Davidson alumnus. Mr. Patton
spoke on Cucurbocitrine, a medicine for the
treatment of low blood pressure. He also
exposed some ideas on bismuth-violet, a
cure for malaria which can be used as an
antiseptic or disinfectant.

Mr. Little gave an interesting discussion
of Chalo-Cid, a drug believed to be very
effective in the treatment of anemia. This
drug has not been used extensively as yet,
but some very interesting experiments have
been carried on concerning the effects and
uses of it.

Following the talks an open discussion of
the new medicines was held by the members
present and some very valuable points con-
cerning the uses of the drugs were brought
to light.

During the course of the meeting mention
was made of the pre-medical entrance ex-
aminations to which these prospective doc-
tors are looking forward. These examina-
tions will be held December 9th. Pi Delta
Alpha will hold its next meeting December
16th, at which time visiting speakers will be
heard.

Mr. Whitman Gives
Organ Recital Mon.

Monday’s chapel service was greatly en-
riched by the organ recital of Mr. Hobart
Whitman, who holds musical degrees from
the Yale School of Music, Union Theolog-
ical Seminary, and the New York Conserva-
tory. At the completion of his musical in-
struction in this country Mr. Whitman pur-
sued his study in Europe.

At the present Mr: Whitman is head of
the music department at Mitchell College in
Statesville, where he is also organist at the
First Presbyterian Church. ;

Mr. Whitmian’s program consisted of “In
Dulci Jubilo,” “Puer Nobis Noscitur,”.“Wag-
ner’s Pilgrims Chorus,”. from Tannhauser,
Fugue in D Major,” and “Trumpet Fugue,”
from Bach, ’

International Relations
Club Asks Several New

Men to Present Papers

Themes Are to Be On Some Subject
of National or International
Interest

PAPERS DETERMINE BIDS

Interesting Subjects Are Offered On
Which They May Write

The International Relations Club, a nation-
al student organization for the purpose of
studying and discussing current national
problems and affairs of national and inter-
national scope, has issued bids to several
men to write papers of from one thousand
to two thousand words in length on a sub-
ject which deals with some national or in-
ternational interest. Some of the various
subjects which have been selected to be writ-
ten upon are as follows: “The Nazis in Ger-
many,” “Effect of War Debts and Tariffs
Upon World Prices and Recovery,” “World
Comradeship at Olympic Games,” “Cancella-
tions of War Debts.”

Faculty members of the International Re-
lations Club are Dr. C. K. Brown, Prof, A.
Currie, Dr. T. W. Lingle, and Dr. J. M.
McConnell. At the present there are about
twenty-two students who belong to this
club. It is considered an honor to be in-
vited to write a paper and much more of
an honor to become initiated.

Rifle Team Meeting
Held in Preparation
for Active Practice

Captain Brown Hopes to Pick Team by
Class Competition

Paul Brown, who succeeded Sam Wiley as
captain of the Rifle Team, held the first offi-
cial meeting of the prospects for the team
on last Monday afternoon. About thirty
boys turned out for this meeting, half of
whom were from last year’s squad. At this
time Captain Brown laid plans for inter-
class competition, which is to take place
after Christmas: He hopes to pick his ma-
terial from the winners of these matches.
Ten men are to be on each team, and the
winning team shall be presented with ten
dollars.’ About forty-eight matches with
many different colleges and clubs have been

(Continued on page 6)

Mr. Jackson Elected
to Important Office
at Recent Meeting

University and College Business Asso-
ciation Discusses Student Aid

Mr, F. L. Jackson, treasurer of Davidson
College, was recently elected as one of the
directors of the University and College Busi-
ness Officers Association of the Eastern
States at a meeting of the latter in Rich-
mond, Va., last Friday and Saturday. Ap-
proximately six hundred schools were rep-
resented in this quite large gathering of men
from the leading colleges and universities of
the East.

Noteworthy at this convention were three

(Continued on page 6)

Prof. English Bagby
Will Speak Friday on
| Abnormal Psychology

Subject Governed by Cases Under
Prof. Bagby’s. Personal
Observation

Prof. English Bagby, professor of psy-
chology at the University of North Carolina,
will speak to the students of Davidson Col-
lege Friday evening at 7:30 o’clock in Cham-
bers Auditorium. The subject of his lec-
ture will be “Abnormal Psychology” and
Professor Bagby will tell of interesting cases
that have come under his observation. '

The speaker received his A.B. degree at
Princeton University and his Ph.D, at Johns

(Continued on page 6)

Dr. James L. Tryon, of
M. I. T., Delivers Address

of Scientific. Interest

Well-Known Educator Advises Stu-
dents of Courses Necessary for
Advanced Study of Science

OUTLINES M. I. T. COURSE

Holds Special Conferences :With Stu-
dents Interested in Graduate Work

On Friday, December 2, the Davidson stu-
dents were fortunate in having as their
chapel speaker Dr. James Libby Tryon, pub-
liciat and educator from the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology in Boston. Dr. Try-
on, whose name is listed in the “Who’s Who
in America,” is a man of great experience,
having travelled both in this country and
abroad. He is now on the second round of
a tour to the outstanding colleges and uni-
versities in which he is endeavoring to ac-
quaint both the faculty and students with
the prerequisites necessary for a student to
enter Boston Tech either as an undergradu-
ate or a post-graduate.

Dr. Tryon’s talk during chapel hour was
very general and brief. He began by say-
ing that he was pleased to be at Davidson
because of having heard so much about it
and knoWing«that several Davidson gradu-
ates are now at M. I. T. Davidson has also
been represented at this instjtution quite a
bit in the past.

Dr. Tryon stated that science, engineer-
ing, architecture, economics, and business
administration are “iron-bound.” One must
choose a career in some particular field and
continue the preparation for this phase con-
sistently through the desired degrees. In
other words one cannot constantly change

(Continued on page 6)

Davidson Chapter of
Scabbard and Blade

Initiates Seven Men

Formal Initiation to Be Held Friday
Night, December 9th

The Davidson chapter of Scabbard and
Blade, national honorary military fraternity,
held an informal initiation Friday, Decem-
ber 2, after drill. The new men who were
initiated are D. M. McConnell, H. D. Cash-
ion, J. C. Pennington, C. E. Moore, W. W.
Seymour, G. C. Neal, and E. B. Cannon. The
initiates, after being properly outfitted in
overalls and covered with flour, marched
around the track in the stadium brandish-
ing wooden swords before an appreciative
audience. The date of the formal initiation
has been set for Friday night, December 9.

This society is composed of the following
cadet officers of the Davidson R. O, T. C.
unit with their respective offices in Scab-
bard and Blade: Captain C. R. Wright,
Knoxville, Tenn.; First Lieutenant Bruce
Peabody, Charlotte, N. C.; Second Lieuten-
ant Brooke Allen, Wilmington, N. C.; First
Sergeant Fred Ogden, New Orleans, La.;
A. M. Manson, Jacksonville, Fla‘; W. A.
Flinn, Atlanta, Ga.; Paul F. Brown, Atlanta,
Ga.; R. E. Conoley, Avon Park, Fla.; George
Bailey, Hickory, N.C.; J. C. McConnell, Da-

vidson.

N. C. Gamma Chapter of
Phi Beta: Kappa Initiates
Eleven New Men | Monday

Sophomore Cabaret

Scheduled for 17th

As well as the two dances to be given by
the Sophomore class on the week-end of
December 16th, 17th and 18th, there will be
the original and most entertaining feature of
a cabaret, which the Sophomore entertain-
ment committee plans to hold the afternoon
of Saturday, December 17, from four o’clock
till six. The cabaret is designed to be two
hours of continuous amusement, provided by
an act or two of class talent; a floor show,
consisting of novelty dancing by one of the
leading Charlotte schools of dance; and, prin-
cipally, “Jelly” Leftwich and his Orchestra,
providing music and skits on the floor. Light
refreshments will be served.

An admission charge of fifty cents per
couple and of thirty-five cents stag will be
charged. Due to the early demand for tables
at the cabaret, which will be held in the
gym, the committee has assumed the policy
of reserving tables in advance, at a cover
charge of twenty-five cents per couple, if so
desired. ;

Lecture Committee
to Sponsor Visit of
Austrian Dramatist

Max—Montor;—Internationally Known
Impefsonator, to Give Program
in Davidson

Austrian Impersonator to Visit David-
son in January

Monday evening, January 23, under the
auspices of the Davidson College Lecture
Committee, an internationally known Aus-
trian reader and impersonator, Max Montor,
will give a program at Davidson. He has
a very extensive repertory in both English
and German, and will give selections in both
languages here. In view of the interest
aroused in America by the recent visit of
Germany's greatest living dramatist, Gerhard

(Continued on page 6)

Davidson Glee Club

Returns from Tour
of Eastern Carolina

Programs Rendered at Flora Macdon-
ald CoHege and Also Aberdeen

For the past three days the Davidson Col-
lege Glee Club has been away on its Annual
Fall Tour which covered a small portion of
the eastern part of the state. Leaving ‘here
by bus Monday afternoon, the Glee Club
journeyed to Red Springs where that night

(Continued on page 6)

--=EDITORIAL  :

THE CENTENNIAL CLASS

In March of the, year 1937 the hun-
dredth anniversary of the founding of
Davidson College will be celebrated.
At this time a milestone in the history
of this institution, which has consist-
ently ranked high academically among
other universities and colleges in the
South and throughout the United
States, will have been reached. It is
only right and fitting that some notice
of an incident such as this should be
taken; and the trustees and faculty
have been planning for two or three
years to hold a celebration, which shall
be the culmination of a campaign for
a “Greater Davidson.” Such a cam-
paign was carried on in 1919, and with-
in four years the attendance at the
college was practically doubled. At
that time the purpose was to build up
the college, whose ranks had been so

depleted by the war. Naturally the
campaign for new students, in con-
junction with the celebration, would
be much more comprehensive in its na-
ture than that in 1919. The plans of
the trustees have been to engender in-
terest among the alumni and friends of
the college in order to raise funds to
improve the equipment of the college.
We do not need much perception to
realize that a new library, chemistry
laboratory, and infirmary, and many
other things are needed at Davidson
at the present time. These could be ob-
tained if the-goal of this celebration
were accomplished, and there is no rea-
son why this end should not be at-
tained, if we as students and future
alumni of Davidson turn all our.efforts
(Continued on page 2)

Five Students and Six Alumni Honored
by Society in Annual Fall
: Initiation

DR. J. S. WILSON SPEAKS

“Best Sellers in Washington’s Time”
Is Subject of Interesting Lecture

The annual fall initiation exercises of
Gamma chapter of Phi Beta Kappa were
held in the banquet hall of Chambers Build-
ing last Monday evening, December 5th.
This initiation was followed by an address
given by Dr. James Southall Wilson of the
University of Virginia, a celebrated and very
learned authority on English literature. And
after this speech, the evening was finished
with an illustrious “banquet given in Christ-
mas background in the banquet hall of the
same building.

Dr. Watts, professor of French at David-
son,.andpresident..of..Gamma chapter of
Phi Beta Kappa, had charge of the entire
affair, being the one to introduce the speak-
er.

After his introduction, Dr. Wilson ex-
pressed his appreciation at being privileged
to come back to Davidson, this being his
second visit.

A statement of his subject, “Best Sellers
in Washington’s Time,” followed this, arft
then Dr. Wilson explained how this subject
was~ of interest to” Phi Beta Kappa’ in that
these books which were the best, sellers in

(Continued on page 6)

Dozen Davidson Seniors
and Alumni Candidates

for Rhodes Scholarships

Undergraduates Are Guerrant,---Mc-—
Keithan, McBryde, Mackorell,
Mullis, McCallie, Howard,
Brown, and McNair

REPRESENT SIX STATES

Christian, Enloe and Russell Are Those
Trying From Alumni

On Thursday-and Satiirday of this week
a dozen Davidson Seniors and alumni will
be candidates. for the Rhodes. Scholarship
in half a dozen states, as follows: North
Carolina, E. O. Guerrant, Leland McKeithen,
and Duncan McBryde; South Carolina, J. S.

Mackorell; Virginia, Murray Christian
(1930); West Virginia, W. F. Mulliss; Ten-
_|nessee, R. L. McCallie; Georgia, Paul F.
Brown, Roger Enloe (1932), John R. How-
ard, Edward McNair, and H. E. Russell
(1930).
Preliminary elections will be held on Sat-
urday in North Carolina, Virginia, West

Virginia and Georgia, but in two states the
date has been changed to Thursday, the
eighth (Tennessee and South Carolina).

In Georgia the total number of candidates
from various institutions was so large that
a preliminary elimination was necessary,
whereas in North Carolina there are but
thirteen candidates from the various colleges,
as opposed to twenty-eight a year ago. This

(Continued on page 6)

Drive for “Y” Funds
To Begin This Week

On December 14th the Davidson Y. M.
C. A. will sponsor its-drive-for funds to be
used for home mission work. The goal this
year has been set at $1,000.

The Cabinet will use $300 for the Mill
Chapel, to maintain a full-time worker in
this church.

The remainder of the fund will be used
for the support of students of the Glade
Valley School. John W. Luke, missionary
in this mountain district, is trying to send
fifteen students to the Glade Valley School.

The Y. M. C. A. is depending upon the
student body for $1,000, and everyone is
urged to do his part.

