BEAT
WAKE FOREST

he Davidsontan |

Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas

BEAT
WAKE FOREST

Vol, XX

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 23, 1932

No. 11

Dr. A. S. Johnson Speaks
at Y. M. C. A. Services

on “Christian Testimony”

John C. Whitley and Charles E. Moore
Lead Assembly in Prayer

RICHARDS LEADS SERVICE

Dr. Johnson States That Christians
Are Not Fervent Enough :

Dr. Albert, Sydney Johnson, pastor of the
First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, was
the speaker at a most inspiring vesper serv-
ice last Sunday night. The service was
opened with the singing of two hymns, “Love
Divine” and “Must Jesus Bear the Cross
Alone.” John Richards, the leader, then read
as the scripture the twenty-fourth chapter
of Luke, beginning with the thirty-sixth
verse. After this, John Whitley and Charles
Moore led in prayer. A vocal solo was then
rendered by Grainger Williams, after which
the speaker was introduced by John Rich-
ards.

Dr. Johnson took as his text Luke 48:24,
“Ye are witnesses of these things.” In de-
veloping his subject the speaker said that
among the true grounds for criticism of the
Christianity of “Christians” was its lack of
fervor. He said that if we believed in Christ
with all our hearts and souls, we could bring
others to follow us. To illustrate this point,
he told the story of a man who, upon leav-
ing one of Dr. Moody’s services, remarked
that he-did not believe a word the doctor had
said. ‘What is your trouble, then?” asked
a companion. ‘Why, he seems to believe it

‘so strongly himself,” the man replied. Unless

we believe in Christ and bear witness to
Him at all times, we cannot expect to be
able to bring others to Him.

The speaker continued by saying that be-
fore we. can carry out this purpose, there
inust be four primary facts true in our lives.
First, if we testify for Christ, we must have
had personal experience of Him. In regard
to this point the story was told of an out-
standing woman, whom the doctor_had re-
cently met at Chicago. When asked where
she’ was born, she replied that physically
she had been born forty-eight years ago, but
spiritually, fifteen years ago, in Chicago.

In the second place, the doctor remarked
that we must use the weapons God has given
us for winning others to’Him. All Chris-

(Continued on page 6)

Little Theatre Offers
New Play at Charlotte

The Little Theatre of Charlotte will pre-
sent “Declassee,” a three-act drama by Zoe
Akins, on November 29-30, at Charlotte.

Arrangements had been made to give the
new play, “Declassee,” in Davidson this
week-end, but due to the absence of one of
the chief characters from Charlotte, it has
been necessary to cancel the engagement.
Thomas B, Humble, director of the Little
Theatre, expressed his regret in a letter to
Mr. Erwin, and stated that he hoped it would
be possible to come to Davidson some time
after the first of the year with one of the
Little Theatre productions.

The success of the previous Little Theatre

’ productions indicates the fine caliber of the
present play, presenting, as it does, an espe-
cially able cast. The Little Theatre’s first
production of the current season was Philip
Barry’s “You and I,” presented in a highly
entertaining manner, and one that received
much favorable comment.

In accordance with its usual custom, the
Theatre will offer reduced admission prices
to Davidson students. A large number are
expected to attend the performance.

Supper Hour

The supper hour which has been at
six-thirty o'clock si the opening of
school will be changed to six o’clock
some time this week. The later hour
has been maintained until now because
of football practices which made it im-
possible for players to get to supper
at an earlier time. When practice is
resumed next spring, the present hour

will be resumed.

Glee Club Presents
Program at Queens

The Davidson College Glee Club rendered
its first musical entertainment of the - Fall
Tour at Queens-Chicora College, on Novem-
ber 18th. The program was sponsored by
the Junior class of the college, and, at its
close, the club was the guests at the Junior
class reception, which was held in the main
hall of the-school; ‘Before a packed house,
members of the Glee Club, the Pills Broth-
ers, and the Southernaires entertained, for
an hour and a half. MreQliver Beard, guest
soloist, contributed muchyte the success of
the night, and was given repeated encores.

The first part of the program was three
songs by the whole club. The three selec-
tions were: “Sailor’s Chorus,” from the
“The Flying Dutchman,” by Wagnér; “Hymn
to the Virgin,” and “The Scissors Grinder.”
Grainger Williams next rendered a solo, ‘In-
victus,” by Huhn. Following this, the Da-
vidson Male Quartet sang two pieces en-
titled, “We Meet Again Tonight” and “A
Cowboy Song.” Next was a piano solo,
“Waltz in C Sharp Minor,” which was given
by Edward McNair. The Glee Club then
sang “Joshua Fit the Battle of Jericho,”
‘Dreamin’ Time,” “Old King Cole.” The
guest artist, Oliver Beard, next rendered
his much-liked solo, “A Spirit Flower,” by
Campbell-Tipton, and “I Love Life,” by
Manna-Zucca. .

After a short intermission, Bill Northern,
Dave McLain, and Geddie Monroe gave their
ever-popular act of the Pills Brothers,
Reeves Pope and his Southernaires after-
ward gave four well-liked selections, which
were, “We Just Couldn’t Say Good-bye,” “By
the Waters of Minnetonka,” “Medley of Old
Favorites,” and “I Don’t Care.”

The program was concluded by both the
Glee Club and the orchestra in a grand
finale. They gave four selections, ‘What
Shall We Do With a Drunken Sailor,” “In
AY Pa

the Luxembourg Gardens,” Tove a

rade,” and “O Davidson.”

Captain Cochran Speaks
to Le Cercle Francais

Le Cerele Francais held its third meeting
of the year last night at the home of Dr.
and Mrs. W. PR. Cumming. One of the
high spots of the meeting was a most inter-
esting talk given by Captain Cochran
how the French celebrate Armistice Day.
This program followed the outline made by
the club concerning programs for the year,
in which they decided to follow the celebra-
tion of all the French holidays.

Following the talk given by Captain Coch-
ran, a most entertaining French play was
presented, entitled, “Knock.” The quack doc-
tor, played by Bob Coit, has been approach-
ed by two’ country hicks who ask him to
cure them. The first country hick was played
by L. T. Newland, while Jack Williams, Jr.,
had the role of the other country bumpkin.
After much examination by the doctor, both
of the little country boys become fright-
ened and leave.

Following the program, a _ delightful
course of ice cream and cake was served:
It was decided that the Christmas motif
was to be carried out at the next meeting
for the purpose of celebrating Noel.

on

Language Teachers
to Attend Meeting

The South Atlantic Modern Language As-
sociation will convene on November 25 and
26 at Atlanta, Ga. This conclave marks the
fifth annual meeting of the association.

The association is composed of teachers
of English, and modern foreign languages
in the leading colleges and universities of
the states of North Carolina, South Caro-
lina, Georgia, and Florida.

Dr. G. B. Watts, of the French depart-

ment of Davidson, is on the committee in|

the French section of the meeting. Dr. G.
R. Vowles, of Davidson’s German depart-
ment, has been similarly* honored in the
Germon section. Prof. E. J. Erwin, of the
English department at ‘Davidson, has been
placed on the committee in the English sec-
tion. Arrangements in the Spanish section
have not been completed as yet.
The chief speaker on this occasion will
be Dr. J. Q. Adams, of Cornell University.
(Continued on page 6)

Sophomore Week-End

Final plans have been arranged for
the annual Sophomore Week-End, the
date for which has been set for De-
cember 16-18. Jelly Leftwich and his
twelve-piece Duke University Orches-
tra will provide music for the event,
which includes two d A formal
one will be given on Friday night, and
an informal one on Saturday night.
Both dances will take place in the
Charlotte Armory. Tickets for the set
will be sold for three dollars, while
tickets for the individual dances will
be sold for two dollars and one dollar
and fifty cents for the . respective
nights. There will be an entertainment
on the campus Saturday, the nature
of which will be announced definitely
_in the early future.

Jelly Leftwich’s orchestra
known all over the state, and is very
popular. He has played for the Debu-
tante Ball for the last two years and
this summer played at Wrightsville
Beach. .

The date for the house party has
been so arranged as immediately to
follow the close of the review period—
psychologically placed with reviews be-
hind and the holidays shortly ahead.

is well

Gamma Chapter of Phi
Beta Kappa to Initiate
Six Alumni of Davidson

Prominent Men Gather From Various
Parts of East for This

Occasion

REPRESENT-FOUR CLASSES

Banquet Will Follow Meeting in the
College Dining Room

Professor Archibald Currie, secretary of
the Davidson Gamma chapter of Phi Beta
Kappa, announced Monday that six prom-
inent alumni will initiated
into the chapter here December Sth.

of Davidson be

The names of the men who will be ini-
tiated into the chapter are: Prof. H. B.
Overcash, class of 1915, now professor of
biology in Hampden-Sidney College; Mr. F.
L. Jackson, class of 1905, treasurer of Da-
vidson; Dr. E. H. Sloop, class of 1897, of
Crossnore School, Crossnore, N. C.; Dr. S.
T. McCloy, class of 1918, professor of his-
tory, Duke University; Dr. J. Woodrow
Clark, class of 1918, physician of Philadel-
phia, Penn.; Rev. Lavens Thomas, class of
1918, professor in the Cafidler School
Theology, Emory University, Georgia.

These prominent men will be invited to
Davidson especially for this occasion, and
will be honored and entertained by various
speakers of the meeting. The main address
will be delivered by Dr. J. Southall Wilson,
Poe Professor of English in the University
of Virginia, in Chambers Auditorium on the
.evening of December 5th. The nieeting will
be followed by a banquet in the college din-
ing room.

of

New Style Blazers
Chosen by Seniors

Dark oxford grey will be the color of tht
traditional Senior blazers this year, it was
reported by W. Allen Mebane, president of
the graduating class.
ferent from any previous blazers, and there |
is a striking improvement over last year’s,
both in style, cut, and color, They are form-
fitting sport coats, with half-belts and pleats
in the back. , On the breast ‘pocket is em-
broidered'a small D, inside of which are the
numerals 33. They are one-buttoned with |
notch-lapels.

A sample of the blazers may be seen at
any time in Morton’s barber shop, and the
tailoring company’s representative, George
W. LaPitz, will be there on Thursday to re-
ceive orders. All orders should be in by
December 1, since they wish to, make all
blazers at one time. After that date, the
price will be increased, according to B. O.
Ravenal, company representative. Mr. La-
Pitz states that pants to match the blazers
can be had if so desired.

“DAVIDSON WILDCATS MEET WAKE

FOREST DEACONS ON HOME FIELD

IN ANNUAL THANKSGIVING CLASSIC

Plans Announced by

Last night at 9 o’clock the Philanthropic
| Literary Society held an important meeting.
| Stuart Noblin, newly-elected president of the
|society, presided and opened the meeting
|with remarks relating to the coming term.
He spoke on the type of work and means
of publicity which the society hoped to carry
through. In. addition, President Noblin
stated that the essay would be studied more
intensively, and the society would devote
more of its time to this form of composi-
tion,

After Président Noblin’s opening speech,
William Fugate gave a talk on “The Rules
of Parliamentary Law,” with specific ref-
erence to certain important points. He noted
certain commonplace defects and mistakes
which existed at the various meetings and
which might easily be corrected. Follow-
ing this, “The Essay” was discussed by W.
M. FE. Rachal. Joe Johnston, recently elect-
ed a meinber of the society, made a-short
humorous talk as a part of his initiation.

Major Rhett and Captain Cochran, who
have spoken at not long past meetings, were
elected honorary members of the society.
Joth these gentlemen made excellent
talks. Major Rhett chose “The Military
Policy of the United States” for his subject,
while Captain Cochran spoke on “The Phil-
ippines.”

of

D. D. McBryde, new critic, gave an out-
line for the work of the coming term, and
appointed a committee of Marsh, Neil and
| Fugate to arrange and prepare the pro-

(

(Continued on page 6)

Seniors Given Additional
Privileges Upon Request

At the request of the members of the
Senior class, the Executive Committee of
the Faculty recently granted the following
privileges, which will be counted as having
taken effect on September 8, 1932, to the
members of the class;

1. Members of the Senior class may at-
tend church services anywhere, provided at-
tendance is reported to the Dean,

2. Members of the Senior class shall be

allowed sixteen chapel absences during a
semester,
3. Those members of the Senior class

who have made a general average of 87.5,
or more, since entering Davidson College,
shall be allowed.as-many—additional absences
itt any course as there are credit hours per
week in that course.

The Senior committee which drew up and
|presented the petitions for privileges ‘was
composed of E. O. Guerrant, Bob Morrow,
W. C. Thompson, D. D. MgBryde, B. B.
Sugg, Moffat McConnell and Bill Mullis.

The granting of further privileges is un-
der consideration of the faculty.

i

Dr. Sparrow Talks
to Pi Delta-Alpha

Dr. Thomas D. Sparrow, a prominent sur-
geon of Charlotte, was the guest-speaker at
the first open meeting of Pi Delta Alpha,

They are quite dif-| honorary medical fraternity, held last Fri-

day. Dr. Sparrow ‘was introduced by Dr.
J. W. MacConnell, the college physician, who
sketched the early history of biology at Da-
vidson, telling of the enthusiasm shown for
the subject by the early« students.

Dr. Sparrow gave his audience an inter-
esting lecture on “Surgical Treatment of
Lesions of the Lungs.?’ ‘Medicine,’ noted
the speaker, “is a jealous science.’ It calls
on all that.is in a person. Anything that
creates interest in science is of help to
would-be doctors. Medicine is not a bunch
of facts in a textbook; each case is a sep-
aratle problem.”

Dr. Sparrow gave a brief history of sur-
gery, discussing the development of lung
treatment. Surgical treatment for disorders
of the lungs is new; but it is rapidly devel-

| (Continued on page 6)

New Officers of Phi

|
| Presbyterians Have Not Won Victory

Over Baptists for Past Eleven
Years

WAKE FOREST FAVORED

Teams Expected to Be in Excellent
Shape for Contest

The Davidson Wildcats and the “Demon
Deacons” of Wake Forest will fight it out
again, when they meet on their annual Tur=
key Day classic, November 24. The game
will be played on Davidson's field this year
for the first time in several years. Every-
one knows the added fight that the Wildcats
display on Richardson Field, and for this
reason a great game should be the out-
come.

These two teams have met each year since
1908, with Davidson winning every game
through 1920; but since that time, four
games have been tied, and Wake Forest has
come out on top in‘the other games by
very narrow margins. This game has the
tradition of being the hardest fought game
of the season, for both teams, regardless of
comparative scores, and both teams are due
to have strong backing on Thanksgiving.

Both schools have stronger elevens this
year than last. According to comparative
scores, however, Wake Forest favored
The Deacons tied Carolina,
0-0, im the first game for both teams; but
Carolina has a much stronger eleven now,
and on Saturday, November 12, defeated
Davidson, 12-0. Duke defeated Davidson,
13-0, for their first appearance of the sea-
son, Several weeks later, Duke defeated
Wake Forest, 9-0. Wake Forest tied another
game with State, 0-0, while, on the other
hand, State later beat Davidson, 7-3, in. a
gaine which showed the superiority of the
Wildcats over State, but, due to several bad
breaks, gave them the smaller score. To.
sum up all these comparative scores, N. C.
State, a team which Davidson outplayed, de-
feated Duke in the biggest upset of the year
in the Big Five, when they won over the
Blue Devils 6-0. Thus we can hardly de-
termine the outcome by the comparative
scores of each team and its opponents.

(Continued on page 6)

is
over Davidson,

Dr. Gwynn Conducts Ten

Day Course at Richmond

Dr. Price H. Gwynn, professor of Edu-
cation at Davidson, returned Saturday from
Richmond, Va., where for the past ten days
he has been conducting a course of study
on Adolescent Psychology. . This course was
given in connection with the Annual Lead-
ership Training School for the church work-
ers of Richmond and the surrounding terri-
tory, at that time being held in the Grace
Covenant Church. Dr. Gwynn spoke twice
a day during the session of the Training
School, his general subject dealing with the
Sehavior Problems and Interests of Young
People.

Dr. Gwynn has done a very great deal of
study and research in fields of psychology
and sociology and is consequently a very
capable lecturer on the subject. He has con-
ducted several study courses, and has deliv-
ered many lectures before along these lines. .
During the past summer he conducted a sim-
ilar course of study at the Leadership Con-
ference at Montreat.

That Dr. Gwynn should be chosen to this
is a distinct honor both to himself and to
Davidson College.

Pep Meeting

The pep meeting tonight will feature
a talk by Mr. J. B. Johnston of Barium
Springs, and there will possibly be one
by Dr. Oren Moore of Charlotte. There
will be a bon-fire and a shirt-tail pa-
rade. The parade, will take its course
from Shearer Hall through town and
down to the Freshman athletic field.
The pep meeting tonight promises to
be the biggest and best of the year.
BE THERE!

