THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 26, 1932

Dr. Price Gwynn Speaks:
Over Radio as Feature of
National Youth Week

“The Home—The First School of Re-
ligion” Is Topic of Davidson
Professor’s Address

On Thursday morning, October 20, as a
distinctive feature of “Childhood and Youth
Week,” Dr. Price Gwynn delivered a radio
address over station WBT, Charlotte, on the
subject, “The Home—The First School of
Religion.”-The address began at 11:45 a. m.
and ended at 12:00 m. Dr. Gwynn’s rec-
ognized interest and authority on the sub-
ject of religious home training is evidenced
by the honor thus bestowed on him. Fur-
thermore, he has accepted the invitation to
speak at Shaw University, Raleigh, N. C.,
Sunday evening, October 23, on the subject,
“The Creed of a Christian.” Davidson re:
joices with him in his opportunities of
spreading the Gospel of the Kingdom of God.

To’ the thoughtful people of our land, Dr.
Gwynn’s message is of extreme importance.
He feels with a majority that our present

“financial and commercial disaster-is but a
symptom of a more fundamental disease,
namely, a decay of personal integrity and
civic responsibility. Such forces of evil as
the increase of crime and racketeering, cor-
ruption in political life, and laxness of moral
and patriotic duty are matters to be dealt
with and readjusted if the honor and stabil-

ity of our national character are to be pre-
served,

Although the result of many causes, most
students believe that this deplorable condi-
tion is the natural outgrowth of the matured
state of moral and spiritual illiteracy reached
annually by thousands of our boys and girls.
This is due,’ Dr. Gwynn believes, to a mis-
representation of religious freedom and the
struggle of the church against other agencies
which demand the child’s time. It is able to
make only an occasional and fragmentary.
contact with the growing person.

But above all these, the chief reason for,
the ignorance of spiritual matters of modern
children is the decline of religious instruction
in the home. The Christian system_is based
upon the home, and depends upon it as the
means, of transmitting the religious heritage.
The very nature of man and the set-up of
the social order demand that if. religion is
to be successfully and universally taught it
must begin with the home, .A child’s first
impressions, which have more to do with
his future development than anything else,
come to him in the home.
ogists go so far as to say that the determin-
ing traits of character are formed during the
pre-school years, and by force of circum-
Stance the church has least opportunity of
contact at this very time. The home must
become the first school of religion—a school
for teaching the young child to know about

God and to distinguish between right and
wrong.

A series of scientific investigations con-
ducted in this country with all types of sub-
Jects from the “third through the eighth
grade emphasize the place of ptedominance
occupied. by the home. It led the investi-
gators to the conclusion that’the home was
the most powerful influence effecting the
development of desirable social behavior or
lack of the same in the children investigated.
Social workers always consider that the juve-
nile delinquent’s chances for recovery are
brightest when placed in a home governed
by moral and religious convictions,

The tendency of many homes to neglect
religious instruction is a disturbing element
and excused by the parents themselves on
the ground that modern life is so complex
and highly organized thatthe very competi-
tion for existence exhausts their energies.
Apparently to them there is no such thing
as the quiet hour of meditation and spirit-
ual instruction.. Others do not know where
or how to begin, and others still have read
that it is foolish to teach a child what he
must re-learn at a later age. These com-
plaints are both typical and weak. Dr.
Gwynn advances a few considerations in re-
ply. We must first cultivate a sense of value
in regard to time. What is the use of teach-
ing a child how to make a living, if he fails
to learn how to live? And without the
knowledge and appreciation of religion, no
man is able to live the rich and abundant
life. Parents must make of their lives liv-
ing examples of the Christian principles they
attempt to present before the growing
child. Only thus will he learn the practical
truths of religion. The essence of the whole

matter is that Christian parents must first\’

of all decide whether they think their re-
~Tigion, is worth preserving. If they do, they
_must be willing to make the necessary sac-
“rifices to teach it to their children. For this
Send, it is imperative that the home recapture
“its former position as the first school of re-
: Afigion. Dr. Gwynn concludes, “And may I

vadd-my.conviction that. the next revival of
Sraligion should ‘have its’ beginning in the

Christian home.”

Some psychol-}.

INSPIRING MESSAGE GIVEN
BY MR. F. L. JACKSON

(Continued from page 1)
morning God came to-him and told him to
take up the work of Christ.““This was again
illustrated at an evangelistic “meeting in
Montreat,” pointed out Mr. Jackson. “The
rain was so heavy that the services could
not be held. The congregation soon offered
a prayer that the rain stop, and that they
might.continue their worship of Jesus. Be-
fore the prayer was finished, the rain had
ceased, and they were able to continue. God
is a reality and in Him we should confide
our problems and sins.”

The services were closed with a prayer by
Dr. Burwell.

DAVIDSON WILDCATS MEET
POWERFUL CLEMSON TEAM

(Continued from page 1)

land and Wake Forest, by impressive scores.
Washington and Lee was defeated 7 to 0,
and then-followed the track meet against
Wofford. On°the following Saturday V. M.4
I. went down, 12 to 0, before the steady
Soph attack, led by the redoubtable Mack-
orell, The winning streak stopped last week-
end when the Bulldogs of The Citadel sprung
a surprise, and played inspired football to
nose out the favored Wildcats, 7 to 6. The
Wildcats, however, scored 12 first downs to
three for The Citadel.

The 'Cats present a regular constellation
of stars to represent thé Red and Black.
Morgan and Morris will probably get the
call at the flanks, with Wagner and Captain

Hand and Charlie Rives in at the guards.
Percy McElrath will again handle the pivot
position. Coach McEver has an excellent
array of backs to pick from and any of the
following may start: Peabody, Pearce,
Mackorell, Mills, Hutchins, Willson, Wing-
field, Fleagle, or Flinn, and possibly all of
them will see action before the game is
over.

them,yet both expect to win; and when two
teams goon the field in that frame of +mind,
the fans are going to see one whale of a
game.

DEBT CANCELLATION IS

(Continued from page 1)
in its affairs as possible without being affili-
ated. It was reported that the association
is in good financial condition ‘in spite of the
pressing times. The degree granting insti-
tutions«of North Carolina weré invited.

The forensic activities of the state center
around this organization. It has done splen-
did work in the past and great strides have
been made under the present administration.

Before adjournment-the members gave a
rising vote of thanks to Dr. Keiser for serv-
ices rendered during the past year. In addi-
tion to his interest in debating and public
speaking, jhe is an author of note, having‘

Johnson’s Barber Shop

“Four Out of Five College Men
Come Here”

Whitfield right inside them, and then Tubby

Both teams know they have a fight before |

written several béoks.. He is now working
on “The American Indian in Literature” and
spent the past summer obtaining local color
and first-hand information on the’ subject.

I, R. C. MAKES EXTENSIVE
PLANS FOR COMING YEAR

(Continued from page 1)

it in co-operation with the Davidsonian, on
Monday.

The International Relations Club has
twenty-three members, a majority of whom
are members of the Senior class. D. D. Mc-

SELECTED FOR DEBATE | Bryde is president; A. H. Grant, vice-presi-

dent, and L. W. Clardy, secretary-treasurer.

EW OFFICERS ELECTED
s FOR EUMENEAN SOCIETY

(Continued from page 1)

Mr. Bailey is a member of the Kappa
Alpha social fraternity, the Reporters’ Club,
member of the editorial staff of The David-
sonian, and a member of the R, O. T. C.
Band. :

DAVIDSON GLEE CLUB
BEGINS SEASON SOON

(Continued from page 1)
body. Although the entire club may not be
on the program, it is probable that a quartet
or some individual may entertain the audi-
ence.

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY

{117 GARLAND COURT

PRINTING AND ENGRAVING

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

WE APPRECIATE YOUR PATRONAGE

EDW. O. GUERRANT

See Our DAVIDSON REPRESENTATIVES

A. M. MANSON

world—but

have no place

They are not present in Luckies
... the mildest cigarette
you ever smoked

E buy the finest, the very
finest tobaccos in all the

explain why folks every-
where regard Lucky Strike as
the mildest cigarette. The fact
is, we never overlook the
truth that “Nature in the
Raw is Seldom Mild’—so

WITH CLIVE IN INDIA

*"Nature in the Raw’’—as portrayed
by the noted artist, Karl Godwin
--- inspired by the fierce and bril-
_—liant-assault_by.Clive-and.ahand-
fulsof followers, outnumbered 20
to 1 by savage hordes of bloodthirsty
natives, at the Battle of Plassey—the
birth of the British Indian Empire
—as described in the famous Henty
book, ‘‘With Clive in India.”

—and raw tobaccos
in cigarettes.

‘these fine tobaccos, after
proper aging and mellowing,
are then given the benefit of
that Lucky Strike purifying
process, described by the
words—“‘It’s toasted”. That’s ~
why folks in every city, town
and hamlet say that Luckies |
are such mild cigarettes.

“It’s toasted”

That package of mild Luckies

that does not

"If a man write a better book, preach a better sermon, or make a better mouse-trap than bis neighbor, tho be
build bis bousein the woods, the world will make a beaten path to bis door.’’—RALPH WALDO EMERSON.
Does-not this explain the world-wide acceptance.and approval of Lucky Strike?

