THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 18, 1932

Alumni Marriages

ALUMNI PERSONALS

To Be Honored on June 2nd

Boyd-Meador'

James LeRoy Boyd, of Atlanta, Ga., 1912
graduate of Davidson, and Miss Helen Meador,
formerly of Covington, Ga., were married in
the Winship Memorial Chapel of the First
Presbyterian Church in Atlanta on May 6th.
After graduating from Davidson, Mr. Boyd at-
tended the University of Alabama, where he
obtained his law degree. He served in the World
War, and for a while was in Y. M. C. A. work,
though for the past several years he has been

* practicing law in Atlanta. Mr. and Mrs. Boyd
are at home at 58 Lombardy Way, Atlanta, Ga.

Ford-Rice
Grover Mancil Ford,’of Mt. Berry, Ga., 1923
Davidson graduate, and Miss Kathleen Rice,
of Arlington, Ga., were married at Arlington,
Ga., on May 5th. Before. becoming a member
of the faculty of the Martha Berry Schools
several years ago, Mr. Ford did graduate study
at Duke University and at Emory: Mrs. Ford
is a graduate of the Georgia State Woman's

College at Milledgeville, Ga.

Brooks-Marsh
Grady Stoddard Brooks, of Fountain: Inn, S.,

Among alumni visitors to. the Davidson cam-
pus during the past two weeks were Rev.
Thornton Whaling, D.D., ’77, Columbia, S. C.;
Dr. Henry Louis Smith, ’81, Greensboro; Dr.
Hamilton W. McKay, ’06, Charlotte; Rev. O.
M. Anderson, D.D., ’08, Water Valley, Miss. ;
Ruffner Campbell, '10, Asheville; Gus Leazer,
‘Il, Atlanta, Ga.; Rev. H. M. McDiarmid, ’11,
Shelby; Rev. J. R. McGregor, ’14, Lexington;
P. B. Thames, Jr., '17, Florence, S. C.; B. W.
Romefelt, ’21, Glen Rock, N. J.; E. P. O’Con-
26, Atlanta, Ga.; D. G. Wilson, ’26,
Greensboro; T. H.eHamilton, ’27, Richmond,
Va.; W. R. Grey, Jr., 228, Brooklyn, N. Y.;
R. M. Thompson, ’28, Mt. Berry, Ga.; Rev.
I), I’, Helm, ’29, West Jefferson; J. B. Chris-
tenbury, ’30, Crossnore; D. C. Hunter, ’30, Bel-
mont; W. A. Sutton, ’30, High Point; D. S.
LaFar, ’31, Gastonia, and C. T. Parker, 31,
High Point.

nor,

Friends will regret to learn of the death of

Mrs. Samuel M. Smith, mother of Dr. Reed
Smith, '01, of Columbia, S. C., and also Mrs.
H. B. Jennings, of Lumberton, mother of H.
B. Jennings, Jr., ’29, of Newark, N. J.

C., 1928 gradtiate of Davidson, and Miss Annie
Katherine Marsh, of Trenton, S. C., were mar-
ried in the Harmony Church on April 16th.
After finishing here, Mr. Brooks was for a
while connected with cotton mills in South
Carolina, but more lately he has been principal
of the grammar school at Lyman, S. C., where
they will make their home,

Grey-Fox
William Richard Grey, Jr., of New York,
1928 Davidson graduate, and Miss Beatrice Fox,
of Bethlehem, Pa., were married at the Mo-
ravian, Chapel, Heckewelder Place, Bethlehem,
on May 7th, Since graduation Mr. Grey has
been connected with the personal trust depart-
ment of the Chase National Bank in New York.
(Continued on page 6)

Rev. J. McDowell Richards, ’22, pastor of
the First Presbyterian Church at Thomasville,
Ga., has been elected president of Columbia
Theological Seminary, Decatur, Ga., to succeed
the late Rev. R. T. Gillespie, 04. At the time
of going to press, Mr. Richards had not an-
nounced his acceptance, but still had it under
consideration, The young minister is a Rhodes
Scholar, and after leaving Davidson he studied
at Princeton, Oxford, England, and Columbia
Theological Seminary. He was pastor at
Clarkesville, Ga., for several years before g0-
ing to Thomasville last summer.

Davidson alumni have been and will be active
in delivering commencement addresses. Rey.
Ben R. Lacy, D.D., Richmond, Va., will de-
liver an address at Atlantic Christian College

YESTERYEAR SNAPSHOT

~ The above is a snapshot taken in the
early days of Sheriff Johp_R. Irwin, '09, of
Charlotte, and Batte Irwin, '09, of Brooklyn,
N. Y.
server in its “Yesteryear Snapshot” Sunday
feature. The Observer did not state which
was which, and neither does the editor of

this page.

on May 24th; Rev. A. A. McLean, D.D., 06,
Lenoir, and Rey. W. M. Currie, ’19, Belmont,
will deliver commencemnet sermons at Barium
Springs next Sunday; Rev. John McSween,
D.D., ’08, Clinton, S, C., addressed the graduates
of Chesterfield, S. C., last Sunday, and Alen
Frew, ’30, will deliver the baccalaureate sermon
to the Greensboro High School graduates next
Sunday.

Alumni who recently addressed civic clubs in
cluded Dr. W. S, Rankin, '01, Charlotte, be-
fore the Chester (S. C.) Rotarians; Hon. Chas
G. Rose, 1900, before the Fayetteville Rotarians:
Hugh A. Query, ’09, Gastonia, before the Bel-
mont Kiwanis Club, and Mayor Geo. W., Coan,
Jr., Winston-Salem, before the High Point Ki-
wanians, Offices to which Davidson men have
recently been elected in civic clubs include
R. D. Hall, ’19, vice-president of the Belmont
Rotarians; R. A. McPheeters, ’21, a director
of the High Point Rotary Club, and W. R.
Sparrow, ’27, vice-president of the Gastonia
Rotarians. j

P. C. Meng, ’21, associate director of the
China Institute of America, with headquarters
in New York, has published a book within the
past month entitled, “China Speaks,” with the
sub-head, “on the conflict between China and
Japan.” The publishers, in announcing the book,
said in part, “China asks only for justice, based
on understanding. He tells in simple, straight-
forward fashion of China’s long struggle for
unity and independence; against this background
he sets the facts of Japan's encroachments in
Manchuria and Shanghai . . . points out that
broader issues are involved than those of Japan’s
and China’s rights and wrongs, that China’s fu-
ture will affect the future of western civiliza-
tion...” Mr. Meng’s book is in the Davidson
library.

Rawls Howard, '17, has been clected mayor
of Tarboro, defeating three other candidates
in a heated contest.

(Continued on page 5)

Alumni Death

Rev. R. T. Coit, D.D., 02
Rev. Robert Thornwell Coit, D.D., 1902 grad-
of Asheville May
12th at the comparatively early age of 53 years.
Dr. Coit, for twenty to
Korea, returned to this country two years ago

uate Davidson, died in on

years a. missionary

in the hope of regaining his health, and spent
some time at hospitals in Baltimore and Rich-
mond,

The deceased entered Davidson from Salis-
bury, and following his graduation he attended
Louisville Theological Seminary for his minis-
terial preparation and did) post-graduate work
at McCormick Seminary. He went direct to the
missionary field, where he remained until his
health failed three Davidson hon-
ored him with a doctor of divinity degree a few

years ago.

years ago.
Among the survivors is R. T. Coit, Jr, a

member of the freshman class at Davidson.

ts

Davidson Theatre

It was used by The Charlotte Ob-|.

MONDAY

“HUDDLE”
RAMON NAVARRO

TUESDAY

“SOCIETY GIRL”
JAMES DUNN—MARION NIXON

WEDNESDAY
JOAN CRAWFORD—ROBERT MONTGOMERY
in.
“LUTY LYNTON”
FRIDAY

“TWO SECONDS”
EDWARD G. ROBERSON

Rev, H,G.BEDINGER 2?

REV. O.C. WILLIAMSON

—Courtesy The Charlotte Observer

@

The above two Davidson alumni, graduates of Davidson in the classes of 1911 and
1918, respectively, will be honored with doctor of divinity degrees at Davidson on June
2nd. Rev. C. L. Crane, '07, missionary to Africa, is also being honored with a similar
degree, which will be conferred upon him in absentia.

Davidson Graduates Win
Recognition at Union

Five Are Honor Students. Four of
Five Fellowships Awarded to
Davidson Men

Kleven Davidson alumni received bachelor of
divinity degrees from Union Theological Sem-
inary, Richmond, Va., on May 10th; three were
given master of theology degrees, one a doctor
of theology, and another a diploma for the spe-
cial English course. At the same time, fellow-
ship awards were announced, and four of the
five went to Davidson alumni.

R. W. Kirkpatrick, A. N. Brown, Jr., Frank
Hall, T. 1. Hill and J. A. Ricks, all members
of the 1929 class at Davidson, were honor grad-
uates at Union, and others receiving their de-
grees were D. F, Helm, W, EO, Jr, RLF.
Sloop, and R. FE. Whitley, alf ’29 Davidson
men, and P. F. Jones, '27. I. S. Blue, ’10, Was
given a diploma for completion of the special
course in English, and Rey. C. N, Morrison, ’21,
of Greensboro, was given his degree this com-
mencentent after doing special work.

Rev. J. R. MeGregor, of Lexington, was
awarded the doctor of theology degree, and the
master of theologies degrees went to Rev. J.
M, Carr, 25, Berryville, Va.; Rev. T. H. Ham-

Engagements
Ward-McKeithan
“Mr. and Mrs. W. B. Ward, of Concord,
announce the engagement of their daughter,

Millicent Virginia, to Julian Harold McKeithan,
of Winston-Salem, the wedding to take place in
early summer.”

Mr. McKeithan graduated frem Davidson in
1922, He taught school for a while in Char-
lotte, and attended the Harvard Law School,
where he obtained his degree in 1927. Since then
he has been practicing in Winston-Salem. Miss
Ward obtained her bachelor of music degree at
Salem in 1931, and will soon obtain her diploma

in voice.

Smith-Massey

“Mrs, D. M. Smith, of Clarkton, announces
the engagement of her daughter, Bessie Mitch-
ell, to Henry Heath Massey, of Waxhaw, the
wedding to take place in June.”

Mr. Massey is also a 1922 graduate of Da-
vidson, He worked in Shelby .for several years,
but more recently has been in the mercantile
business at Waxhaw. Miss Smith was educated
at Mitchell College, Statesville.

(Continted on page 6)

(Continued on page 6)

“DRUGS”

Students’

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

Make Our Store Your Store

WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.

S

“SODA”

Supplies

“SUNDRIES”

tetson “D” Store

Clothes for the College Man

&
