N

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 17, 1932

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly ‘“‘For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:0 p. m., Monday.

De GRID AMAR LEN Cassdcucisseccscctsscckecsauses Editor-in-Chief
P.M CON WAY ssnssdnsscteccescsccinss, 6... Dusihess Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
Bi, OF GUBRRAN Tssectocdseviccss sécccockesecs: Managing Editor
D. D. McBRYDE.-..-- asacse-Sescnses Managing. Editor
Reels OWA Lal ies tks cclusds sucusiciakicce wees Managing Editor
Cc. F. MYERS... Managing Editor
B. B. SUGG__-_. Athletic Editor
D. G. STEPHE Feature Editor
W. W. FRANKLI --Feature Fditor
HiaW sO RWA Ne soteccccstcadploascsccacaucksoccecese Review Editor
Vic WIAA tub beduete ckcccaccdesauccasa ce. ---Exchange Editor
Bec Gr wit blots) Risccobcsscests: ccau Associate Editor
WieSraleWwA taacesteans sie cslec ocak u ce ---Associate Editor
Wire SM AIDE WW Sisccbvsccaccens: ccusatcocses Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

A. M. ‘S _...----Assistant Business Manager
A. L. MEBANE... -Assistant Business Manager
J. W. WHITTED Assistant Business Manager
W. R. MORROW -Subscription Manager
Wile ORINSONissccctecd acvouncs UuagsebessbaudlatesguupD Solicitor
FMT IN EWibhu boUbsnpinsiaccuctsscceteuehs eas cenbytuasane Solicitor
ih Bi WOOTTON ssc scscstoca.ciss co cessu lee sc co Soeneeme SONGItOr,
ASHMAN S ONeciuscscndusccccusccbuccusccbosccanes Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB

AY He aOWHIURBH BAD: teases dorsi sscdicccadessscssestscesh resident
Us Ws UA KR Min swcusscsestesceccuesuns _..-.-Vice- President
Wy Ry eM Ula lal SSeacesbuscciodcccccecucocusceuecretarys sreasurer.

R. H. ALDERMAN F. H,. COVINGTON

B. B. TAYLOR L. S. GAMBLE

G. E. BAILEY R. E. LORRAINE

J. E. BOYD E. L. POWELL

S. P. PRESTON R. PRATT-THOMAS

W. R. WARD A. F. SCHENCK

0. CASALI W. M. THOMPSON

L. W. CLARDY, JR. W. T. THOMPSON

JACK WILLIAMS J. A. HUNTER

FEBRUARY 17, 1932

Honor lies in honest toil—Grover Cleveland.

PARAGRAPHICS

The new coaches, to all appearances, are getting
right down to work with the business before them.
This “start-right-in” attitude is to be commended.
And to live up to the reputation that has been made
by Younger and Tilson they will find it necessary to
keep right on going in much the same manner.

D

Interest in the practices in football thus far is en-
couraging. It shows that the student body is behind
the new coaches and that the men in the student
body will give them their support.

pe p

One need only read a copy of the “Buccaneer” of

Carolina, or any other similar humorous college pub-
lication, to realize fully the value of the two-year-old
“Yowl.” The gratitude of the student body is due the
editor and his staff.

D:

Scales certainly added to the honor of “Old Rumple”.

Sunday night by having the “Janitors’ Quartet” at
Vespers. The student body seems to like this type of
feature at the services.

cae pe ey

Coach Laird’s first season as coach of the varsity
basketball quint has been practically beyond reproach
thus far. Starting with poor material, he has succeeded
in building up a team which has improved as the sea-
son has gone by.

——_D

The winter sports close their schedules within the
next few weeks. Track, baseball, tennis and golf will
be open to any and all aspiring candidates.

D.

Last year while Don King was being inaugurated
as President of Davidson’s efficient student govern-
ment his rai t was “accidentally” taken. Thurs-
day, while representing Davidson at a student gov-
ernment meeting in Knoxville, another raincoat was
stolen from him. This time, however, he had a hat,
gloves, and the keys to his automobile taken.

SEES AS, Se
OUR COUNTRY’S FATHER

Led by Congressman “Sol” Bloom of Cali-
fornia, who is the Chairman of the House’s Com-
mittee established for the purpose, the nation cele-
brates from February 22 to Thanksgiving Day
the two hundredth anniversary of the birth of its
savior, its first President, its most glorious char-
acter, George Washington.

Hundreds of biographies of this great character
have been written, numerous paintings and statues
of him have been made; his life has been told in
such detail in so many American histories that he
is probably the most well-known character in
American history. Both praise and reproof have
fallen to his lot. By far the majority of the bi-
ographers of Washington have depicted him as
the great character that he undoubtedly was.
Others, seeking to make their works sensational
and popular, have attempted to discredit the work
of this great figure, to show that all his work was
for personal glory, to prove that his character was
base, and finally to prevent that honor and esteem
which true Americans give to the “Father of Our
Country.” But they have failed to formulate any
such opinion among the people of the United
States, who can see clearly the lasting results of
the work of a man who gave himself so unselfishly
to the service of his country.

Great preparations have been made by the
Bloom Committee. Throughout the country local
committees, newspapers, educators, and others are
planning celebrations in honor of Washington. At
several places throughout the nation there are to
be great festivals in his honor.

The authorities at Davidson have offered as
their share of the “Bi-Centennial Celebration”

A TRUE WILDCAT SPIRIT

Many people, seeing the heading to this editorial
attempt, will probably say as did Madame Roland,
the French Revolution heroine who was guillo-
tined, “O Liberty, the crimes that are committed
in thy name!” And it is true that a good percent-
age of the editorials that have been written by
enterprising collegiate editors have been in some
way concerned with the subject, “College Spirit.”

Yet we cannot help feeling that all this seem-
ingly useless work is done in good faith and for a
good cause. A school which can truthfully say,
“We have a fine school spirit,” really has some-
thing of which it can be justly proud; it has some-
thing which few institutions may claim as their
own. So any effort on the part of editorial writers
to further this cause is not entirely in vain if it
promotes even in a small way the spirit of the
school,

The writer recently had the opportunity of see-
ing on exhibit the spirit as shown at athletic con-
tests .of the three largest “Big Five” schools. Re-
gretfully we say that it was not what we would
classify as an ideal spirit. Of course there were
outsiders at the games and they undoubtedly con-
tributed to the general appearance of the crowd;
but the student bodies of the schools themselves
made up the greater part of the spectators, Their
attitude toward the referee and their actions with
regard to the visiting team were hardly up to the
standard to be expected from these schools.

This is not a criticism of the spirit of these
schools; they evidently count it only a small mat-
ter. It is brought out only to show. orfe way in
which a college spirit may manifest itself very
clearly to a visitor, And we do not by any means
claim that Davidson is innocent of such a charge;
hut rather would we plead that she endeavor in
every instance to make herself more ideal in this
respect.

There is a “Sportsman’s Code” in the back of
the “Y”" Handbook, but it is hardly necessary he-
cause men instinctively know what is the correct
thing to do, They know what a true sportsman
would do under the same circumstances.

So let us make another plea for the uplifting
of that spirit for which this institution has lone
heen famous, for actions on the part of the stu-
dent body which will show outsiders that we keep
and will maintain such a spirit.

e

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

Agnes Scott

Recently there was held a contest at this old Southern
institution to change the name of their paper, The Agon-
istic. This’ was carried on because when mail was sent
to the paper it was addressed sometimes to The Agnostic,
which means “a know-nothing”! The paper had the name
of The Scott Scroll for a trial issue this past week.

Miss Caree Lingle, daughter of our president, Dr.
W. L. Lingle, won the title of “Miss Health” for 1932 at
this Decatur institution in a contest recently held there.

Two distinguished speakers have been to Agnes Scott
recently, Dr. Will Durant, well known writer and speak-
er, who lectured on “The American Crisis,” and Dr.
Frank Crossley Morgan, of Augusta, Ga., and son of the
famous Dr. G. Campbell Morgan, who conducted’a week
of religious services there.

Washington and Lee

Twenty men were tapped by Omicron Delta Kappa,
honorary leadership fraternity, last Wednesday; seven-
teen were undergraduates, two alumni, and one member
of the faculty. The speaker for the assembly was Dr.
Francis Pendleton Gaines, president of Washington and
Lee University, who was tapped here at Davidson while
he was president of Wake Forest.

Clemson
On February 26, at Clemson, there will be held a
Bowery Ball, probably similar to the Davidson Bowery
Ball. Fred Hamilton and his Florida Collegians will fur-
nish the music. 4

Salem

The Salemite published a list of the old Salem Aca-
demy Rules, quite funny beside the present day rules.
The Old Salem Academy Rules are as follows:

1. Baths can be taken only by special permission and
at times indicated by the teachers.

2. During the day the sleeping apartments are not’ to
be visited by the scholars.

3. From breakfast to 8 A. M., the pupils are to remain
in their rooms. and devote the time to study and to prep-
aration for recitation hours.

4. The strictest order is to be observed in the Em-

-broidery Room.

5. During recess and recreation hours, all boisterous
plays and games, rudeness and unladylike conduct must
be avoided.

6. When walking out, the pupils are never to stay out
of sight or hearing of the teacher.

7. Standing in crowds at the front doors, leaning out
of windows in an unbecoming manner, and especially rude
or loud talking at such localities, are entirely prohibited.

These rules were in effect in 1772, just before the
American Revolution.

talks at the chapel exercises during the past sev-
eral weeks on the various phases of the life and
character of George Washington. The student
body has been given an insight on the life of
Washington as exhibited by him in several differ-
ent phases of life. These talks have proved most
interesting and informing to the student body, and
comprise a part of the nation-wide program of
honoring Washington.

“|, .Of Ships & Shoes—
& Sealing Wax—
Of Cabbages & Kings...”

Duncan McBryde

MILLINERY TRAINING

ROTC, in the eyes of the grammarian, would
probably be an indefinite article. This (I’m not refer-
ring to the indefinite article) is a great mistake. It
is the science of Major Conflicts. And the Major is
a fine fellow. Perhaps the professor of Logic would
reason:,

“ROTC is a study of WAR,
EVANS AS Asien eek HELE:
“Therefore ROTC is... well,
figure it out for yourself.

But this millinery training is not so bad (even tho’
the little boy did say that it was “rotten to the
Corps”). It is a lot of fun (for the reviewing officer).
They are always asking the fellows to PASS IN RE-
VIEW, but they can’t even pass muster. Once a boy
passed, tho’, and that’s where we get the expression,
“I shall not pass this way again.”

I would like to dedicate the following little quatrain

to ROTC, since it deals with a veteran, not only of
many wars, but of ROTC, as well!

BEN BATTLE

BEN BATTLE WAS A SOLDIER BOLD,

AND USED TO WAR'S ALARMS;

BUT A CANNON BALL TOOK OFF HIS LEGS,
SO HE LAID DOWN HIS ARMS.

“NEVERMORE” QUOTH BRAVE BEN BATTLE,

AS HE TRIPPED DOWN TO THE SEA;

“I’M THRU WITH THE PRATTLE OF BATTLE
AND SADDLE,

AND THE SAME GOES FOR R. O. T. C.! hy

\
But after all’s read and flung (into the waste-
basket), ROTC is interesting. The drills bring out
interesting facts. That is, if you drill deeply enough.

~ Some of these facts brought out in drill are as much

as six feet tall, broad-shouldered, and very amiable
(meaning they have pretty, good aim). An ROTC
drill is a test of your manliness. If you can go thru
a whole drill period, without asking the man behind
you to stop stepping all over your: feet, and the man
in front of you to stop cracking you in the head with
his rifle, you’re a real soldier. And if you're a real
soldier, you'll join in with good spirit, and step on
the man’s feet in front of you, and crack the fellow
behind you in the head with your rifle. This is called
esprit de corps.

One of the things you have to learn to do is to
execute SQUADS EAST and SQUADS WEST. Usu-
ally the execution of these is like most any other pub-
lic execution, which you may have witnessed. They
used to use this command, SQUADS EAST and
SQUADS WEST in Horace Greeley’s day. One day
when he was drilling a platoon of men, forgetting the
correct command, he bawled out:

GO WEST, YOUNG MEN, GO WEST!

That boner made him famous. And while we're on
the subject of boners, lemme tell you one that Cari
Pritchett told me: Several years ago, when a certain
captain was giving an ROTC student his practical!
test, he asked him, among other questions: ,

“Where is the balance of your rifle?”
And the poor, nonplussed student replied, meekly :
“T don't know, sir. This is all they gave me.”

Which is about as bad as the man this year on his
ROTC exam, who was describing how to execute
ABOUT FACE. He said that to do this you place
your right foot six inches to the rear, and turn about
on the palm of your left foot.

‘And then there was the Davidson student who,
when asked if he were going to major in ROTC, re-
plied:

“No, if I get to be a captain, that will suit me o. k.”
These are not RANK jokes, but simply what an
aviator might call a “take-off.”

One of the great men that we hear a lot about in
ROTC is a famous Frenchman: “Count De Cadence.”
But he is not so well ied, for whenever his name
is called out, the boys—who must have their fun—
begin “counting” at the top of their yoices in derision.
(Tho’ I never did know derision why.)

FILOSOPHY OF FREDDY THE FROSH: :

“I used to think that the Saint Louis Cardinals were
appointed by the Pope.”

As Dr. MacConnell said when he inserted: the
hypochdermic needle in the boy’s arm, “I think this
has gone far enough.” That’s what I think about this
column. But I promise you I'll close after just a few

\

What Do You Think?

The world needs everything except a pestilence, a
famine and a war, but if war comes, the others will follow
in short order. A general war of the powers would lead
to cannibalism in Paris, London, Berlin, Rome, Tokyo,
within two years.

The last war destroyed so much of the world’s wealth
that the world economic structure has not yet been able
to rebound. The World War is the primary and_prin-
cipal cause of the universal depression thirteen years
after the Armistice.

The simple fact is that modern war destroys wealth at
a greater ratio than the wars of other days did. A war of
the powers now would destroy wealth more rapidly than
the one which began in 1914. A generation hence a war
of powers would be more destructive of all powers and
values than any which has gone before.

There is not a respectable economist on earth toglay
who does not believe that a general war at this time
would be ruinous to civilization. A war between Japan
and another power of the first rank would be a catas-
trophe to both countries and highly injurious to all others,
even granting that there might be a temporary increase
in the price of such basic commodities as cotton, meat,
grain and metals.

Why ?
bought on credit and have to be paid for years after
when the earning power of taxpayers is reduced, and be-

Because in war these basic commodities are

cause of the sheer waste of materials that occurs with the
firing of every gun. ‘

The world does not need another war to revive busi-
ness. What it does need is a hundred years of unbroken
peace. The time has passed when the world can pay for
war.

Accidents will happen, but Detroit traffic experts say
there is no excuse for them, after making a detailed
analysis of 10,118 injuries and deaths in 1931.

The analysis showed a great majority of the accidents
occurred in daylight hours on normal, dry streets in clear
weather. Not one of the 330 persons killed last year died
as a result of an obstacle or defect in the road, and only
twelve were killed because of snowy, icy streets.

Other facts brought out by the anlysis were: 138 killed
during daylight ‘hours, 17 killed where artificial light was
used; most dangerous hour of day was 7 P. M. to 8
P. M., when 37 were killed and 922 injured; most dan-
gerous week day was Saturday, with 57 dead and 1,746
hurt; accidents at intersections caused less deaths than
those along the streets, and of the motorists involved
in fatal accidents, 263 were male and 17 female.

Business men’s art clubs, a rapidly growing cultural
phenomenon in the larger American cities, had their
origin in Chicago, according ot Karl Buehr of the Art
Institute. Now in twenty cities the tired business man
with a secret yearning for the brush, pen, or pencil, has
an opportunity to exercise his: artistic urge during his
leisure hours.

In 1920 Mr. Buehr had a business men’s class for men
who had taken up art as a hobby. They found relaxation
in the evenings drawing and painting, with occasional
sketching trips into the country. Mr. Buehr suggested
that a permanent organization be formed. Eighteen men
became ‘charter members with Elbert G. Drew, a tele-
phone company official, as president. The organization
now boasts 115 members.

Life is just two steps ahead of everybody else for
William H. Sweet, of Centralia, Washington, recently
named Rhodes Scholar.

At 2% he could repeat whole passages from children’s
books after he had heard them two or three times.

At 5 he was a student of United States History.

At 10 he had finished the eighth grade.

At 11 he decided to follow his father, Dr. Paul W.
Street, as a surgeon, and at 12 was a second assistant to
his father in performing operations.

At 16 he was first assistant on the operating: tables.

At 17 he performed one appendix and several hernia
operations while his father acted as first assistant.

more remarks on the general subject of WAR, which
some students are so dumb as to think that it is a
subject closely allied to ROTC.

Students will profit by the example of a Chinese
general, who ordered that none of his soldiers marry
until the end of the war. He was right. One war at
a time is enough.

Did you hear about one of our would-be-war-mind-
ed students, who said that he had quite a war record?

He went over to Charlotte and bought “Over There”
for his phonograph.

But war is not worth all that it has cracked up.
The wages of war is debt, as the old saying goes.
All the world needs is an agreement not to have any
more wars until the old ones are paid for.

The last war was fought to end all wars;
The next war will be fought to end all debts.

Few war-time atrocities are remembered, but occa-
sionally you hear a fragment of French with a West
Virginia accent! ma “

Anyway, another thing against war is that it ‘sel-
dom, if ever, kills off the right people.

THE ARMISTICE IS SIGNED!
I'VE QUIT.
WAKE UP! THE WAR’S OVER.
