THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 24, 1932

|

i

ma 4

i
ave :

Considerable Glianye

Has Been Made

For 1932 Commencement Program

Baccalaureate and Y. M. C. A. Sermons

Will Be Heard Ten Days Before
Graduation Exercises. Latter
Have Been Shortened

ADOPTED BY FACULTY

Full Day Will Be Devoted to Alumni

Affairs. Trustees Will Meet
as Scheduled

A radical change has been made in plans for
the 1932 commencement of Davidson College,
representing a decided departure from what has
been customary over a Jong period of years.
Briefly, the plan is to have the baccalaureate
and Y. M. C. A. sermons ten days before the
regular period of graduation, and limiting the

exercises of commencement to two other days.

Many years ago the Davidson commence-
ments started on Sunday and were not conclud-

ed until the following Thursday. In more recent
years, however, the exercises have been short-
ened to start on Sunday and conclude the fol-
lowing Wednesday. Many objections have been
raised in recent years to’ this extended period,
part of which has been unfilled with exercises,
and for a number of years there has been an
agitation afoot to shorten this.

A faculty committee has been working upon
the matter for some time, and recently pre-
sented their report to the faculty, which imme-
diately adopted it.

Therefore’ the ninety-sixth commencement
program will be something like this:

Sunday, May 22nd, Baccalaureate and Y. M.
C. A. Sermons. ;

Wednesday, June Ist, Alumni Day.

Thursday, June 2nd, Graduation.

Officials of the college pointed out many ad-
vantageous reasons for having the commence:
ment sermons ten days prior to the regular
program, one of which was that all members of
the student body would be at Davidson to hear
them. In a large measure the Sunday visitors
at commencement have come from nearby cities
by car, and these will not be affected by the
change. The parents of the graduates, however,
if they live any distance away from Davidson,
will not be here, and these are the only ones
materially affected.

The adopted plan does not interfere with the
semi-annual meeting of the trustees of David-
son, who will assemble for their session on
Tuesday, May 31st, as formerly. The day-tinte
will be ‘allotted solely to their meeting, and
there will be no interference by the annual
alumni luncheon and Assocation meeting, which
formerly extended to such an afternoon hour
that the trustees, who were alumni of Davidson,
would have to return to their session.

On Tuesday night, the Alumni Council would
hold its first session, but this would be after the |
adjournment of the trustees. The Council would
continue its sessions through Wednesday morn-
ing, the alumni luncheon would be held‘ as usual
at 1 p. m., followed by a meeting of the Asso-
ciation, and after this closed the annual faculty
reception would be given on the campus. Exer-
cises for Wednesday night have not been worked
out, but this would probably include the class-

day exercises and literary societies’ program.

Thursday morning would be devoted to the
usual graduation exercises when awards are

made to individuals for excellency in classroom
commissions and degrese presented, and an-
nouncements made of general public interest.

With this new arrangement already adopted

the alumni office is now beginning its prepara-

tion for the alumni functions at commencement

; Ce 9?
which includes the Alumni Council meeting, PRERERRED & PENG Se Ry ee
the alumni luncheon and Alumni Association
session, and the reunion of certain classes, All-
time presidents and alumni presidents of the

9

SCARLET TANAGER

Sodas — Tobacco — Sundries
Orangeade 5c Lemonade 5c
H _ Limeade Sc

classes will write letters to their members urg-
ing their return, and pointing out the attractive-
ness of the newly arranged schedule, which
gives a full day solely to alumni affairs.

« Classes which will reunite next commence-
ment include 1931, for its first reunion; 1882
for its fiftieth; 1907 for its quarter-of-a-century
celebration, and the groups 1925, 1926, 1927,
and 1928; and 1908 and 1909. These latter two
will meet in conjunction with 1907. According
to the group system now in use, the class of
1906 is also scheduled to reunite, but since they
were at Davidson last commencement for their
25th gathering, this will be omitted next June.

Alumni Deaths

A. S. Caldwell, III, ’28

Alfred Shorter Caldwell, III, 1928 alumnus
of Davidson, died at the High Point Hospital
in High Point on February 16th, follo ving an
illness that had extended over several month§,
Mr, Caldwell did not graduate from Davidson,
but withdrew because of illness, later going to
the University of North Carolina, from which
he was graduated in 1929. He had been suc-
cessfully engaged in business in High Point,
until illness forced him to abandon it.

Among the alumni survivors are his father,
A. S. Caldwell, Jr., '01, of High Point, and
David G. Caldwell, ’31, of Davidson, a half”
uncle.

The John McSween Company and the Mc-
Sween Mercantile Company were both destroyed
at Lamar, S. C., last week at an estimated loss
of $50,000. Rev. John McSween, '09, presiderit
of Presbyterian College, was interested in “the
two concerns.

Judge James E. Boyd, '66, of Greensboro,
formerly a member of the United States District

Court bench, celebrated his 87th birthday last
week,

Sam A. Robinson, 99, is a member of the
Central Welfare Relief Committee at Gastonia.

DR. McCONNELL SPEAKS

(Continued from page 3)

eight long years of war,” said Dr. McConnell,
“and upon the hardships that he suffered dur-
ing those years, the defeats he suffered, and
the tremendous strain upon him when criticized
and blamed by an unappreciative government.”
Dr. McConnell declared thata“Washington’s
deliberation, dignity, sense of propriety, and rare
good judgment were all products of his won-
derful poise.” He attributed his post of com-
mander-in-chief of the army, his presidency of
the constitutional convention and later of the
United States to this trait of character.

In developing his last point, the dean re-
viewed Washington’s entire life, citing numer-
ous incidents of his physical courage, beginning
as a youth of 16, and culminating in his choice
as leader of the Revolutionary forces, “His
moral courage was amply demonstrated,” he
said, “in the constitutional convention when he
vacated the president’s chair to speak from the
floor after a delegate had suggested that cer-
tain measures should not be adopted, because
they might be unpopular with the people.”

’ ro
e

Alumni Personals

Davidson alumni, who are trustees of David-
son, and who were here last Wednesday for the
semi-annual meeting of that body, were Rev.
FE. D. Brown, '93, Statesville; Rev. R. S. Ar-
rowood, ’13, Concord; Rev. W. C. Brown, ’93,
Barium Springs; Rev. W. M. Fairley, D.D.,
95, Raeford; Rev. A. R. McQueen, D.D., '03,
Dunn; Prof. K. A. McDonald, 16, Hope Mills;
Rev. T. G. Tate, '10, Gastonia; Sam A, Rob-
inson,.’99, Gastonia: Dr. J. P. Matheson, '99,
Charlotte; H. N. Pharr, ’87, Charlotte: Rev.
W. H. Goodman, ’02, Kannapolis; Rev. C. EF.
Hodgin, D.D., '94, Greensboro; T. D. Dupuy,
‘01, Greensboro; Rev. J. R. Phipps, ’13, Pol-
locksville ; Walter P. Sprunt, 04, Wilmington;
Irwin P. Graham, ’08, Cooleemee; Robert Mf
Knight, ’22, Safety Harbor, Fla.; J. Archie
Cannon, '04, Concord; Dr. Hamilton W. Mc-
Kay, '06, Charlotte; W. S. Royster, 99, Nor-
folk, Va.; H, Smith Richardson, 06, New York,
and John D. Baker, ’86, Jacksonville, Fla.

Other alumni visitors here last week included
J. W. DeArmon, ’24, Kings Mountain; George
A. Batte, '27, Concord; Rev. H. F. Peterson,
'28, Cedartown, Ga.; A. W. Baker, ’29, Val-
dese, and W. E. McAlpine, ’31, Union, S. C.

At a recent meeting of the Tri-State Medical
Association in Raleigh, two of the three vice-
presidents selected were Davidson alumni. Dr.
N. C, Daniel, 96, was chosen from North Caro-
lina, and Dr. A. E. Baker, ’16, was selected
from South’ Carolina. Dr. DeWitt Kluttz, ’11,
of Washington, N. C., was continued as coun-
cillor, since his term did not expire.

W. T. Spencer, ’26, of Gastonia, last week re-
tired as second vice-president of the Carolina
Retail Lumber and Building Supply Dealers. As-
sociation, but was selected as a director of that

organization for the ensuing year.

Dr. John Q. Myers, ’06, is being discussed
in Charlotte as a possible city-county health
officer, following the resignation of the former
holder of this position. :

_ Mayor Geo. W. Coan, Jr., of Winston-Salem,
has been named chairman of the Winston-Sa-
lem anti-hoarding committee.

Lex Kluttz, 15, secretary of the Y. M. C. A,
at Raleigh, was named recording secretary of
Y. M. C. A. of the two Carolinas when this
organization met in Churlotte last week.

Rev. H. G. Bedinger, "ld, president of Flora
Macdonald College, was the principal speaker at
the Founders’ Day exercises of Presbyterian
Junior College at Maxton. The exercises cen-
tered largely as a memorial to the late Rev.
R. A! McLeod, 09, who was president of the
college at the time of his death.

S. T. Henderson, 17, of Charlotte, reached
the semi-finals of the annual St. Valentine's
Golf Tournament at St. Augustine, Fla., last
week, but was eliminated in that bracket.

Wm. C. Alexander, ’27, will probably set a
record ,in June when he will be awarded three
earned diplomas. He will get his bachelor of di-
vinity degree from Erskine, his master of arts
from Davidson, and the literary society of which
he is a member at Erskine will present him
with a diploma.

lege 6
Printin Lg

Magazines, Catalogs,’ Programs, Newspapers,
Bulletins, Handbooks, Etc.

Nothing too large or small for our plant—

P. M. CONWAY, DAVIDSON,

STANDARD PRINTING CO. CHARLOTTE,N.C.

Engraved
Cards and Invitations.

Let us serve you.

Always Best

REPRESENTATIVE

__ Pure Fresh Grape Juice 10c

Graduating Class Has Selected Its
Members of. Davidson Alumni Council

Five of These New Councilmen Were
Automatically Members Because
of Student Body Positions
They Now Hold

PREPARING PROGRAM

These Ten Men Will Be in Charge of
Presentation of. Student Body Life
and Problems to Council

The 1932 graduating class have selected their
membership on the Davidson College Alumni
Council, this being done at a recent smoker at
which Ernest Milton, alumni secretary, was a
guest and outlined the procedure and plan of
the Alumni Council.

Five of the men, by virtue of their positions in
the student body, are automatically made mem-
bers of the Council, but the remaining five were
selected by the class. Four of these came from
specified groups, while the fifth was chosen
from the class at large, from nominations made
from the floor.

The five automatic members of the Council
are D. S. King, president of the student body;
J H. McKinnon, Jr., president of the Senior
class; R. P. Enloe, president of the Y. M.
C. A.; D. M. MacQueen, president of the Ath-
letic Association, and D. G: Martin, editor of
The Davidsonian.

From the ten highest in scholastic standing
and the varsity Senior debaters, S. S. Wiley
was selected; from the business managers of
the varsity athletic teams, the three publications
and treasurer of the class, R. W. Gorrell was
the choice; from the Pan-Hellenic Council, N.
G. Speir was elected, and from the captains
vf the varsity athletic teams, L. S. Raker was

place every seam in HANES.

athletic union suits and shirts and

For
Men and Boys

If you wear summer-weights the year through, be sure to see how

HANES UNDERWEAR

chosen. C. W. Kuykendall was elected as the
member-at-large.

These ten men met with the alumni secretary
Tuesday night for a preliminary conference as
to their duties, and Wednesday morning they
had a conference with H. Smith Richardson,
president of the Alumni Association, who was
at Davidson for a meeting of the trustees. Mr.
Richardson elaborated further upon their duties,
and also told them of a program which he
wanted them to present to the Council next
commencement.

In conjunction with the alumni office, these
ten men are now in the process of preparing
4 program that will be of greatest interest and
of the greatest illumination to other members
of the Alumni Council. The tentative plan is
to have a general session of the Council on
Tuesday night, May 31st, for the transaction of
business to “come before that body, and on
Wednesday morning, these ten students will
present four different programs in various
rooms of Chambers Building on the student
life and problems.

These four group sessions will be going sim-
ultaneously, and the Council members and every
other alumnus who can attend, will make their
choice. These discussions will be informal, led
by the Senior class member, and the meetings
will be presided over by an alumnus. The pro-
gram is being arranged to deal with the prin-
ciple phases of college life, and the tentative
outline covers practically every activity in which
a student ‘is interested.

President Richardson plans to write personal
letters to Council members when the program
is definitely arranged, and will also write a let-
ter to all of the Davidson alumni, giving them
a copy of the program, and urging their attend-
ance. The new Council was organized last June,
and this will be the second session for this
body.

HANES IS “MASCULINE”
FOR “UNDERWEAR”

Specialists in male comfort determine the styles and measurements, and
Soft, long-wearing materials!
ing! Over 25 years of manufacturing experience!
combine to make the greatest underwear values you've ever seen.

HANES Gold Label Elastic-knit Light-weight Union Suits are excellent
for the changeable weather of autumn and spring—ideal winter garments
for men who work indoors. Luxurious in materials and finish. Low in price.

Expert tailor-
HANES low prices! All

shorts are made better by HANES.

For

Every Season

For Subscriptions or Extra Copies

HE YOW

GAITHER JENKINS
1 EAST

New Price, 25 Cents
' Year’s Subscription (Four Issues) $1.00

=
