THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 4, 1932 sa

‘a

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: er copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

10 cents

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
. anaging Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

EDWARD O. GUERRANT...-.-_-.-..--.-.------- Editor-in-Chiet
P. M. CONWAY. ‘ei Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

IG 2WeAGUARDNeccratssrsnesautscb.cLselcesestace. Managing Editor
A. F. SCHENCK Managing Editor
W. M. THOMPSON. Managing Editor
JACK_WILLIAM ---Managing Editor
ODI CASALI ..-Athletic Editor
. E. E. -Exchange Editor
¥ WHAW Hldiue bese cbalclnccasscosdcacsccussaassosus Feature Editor
GOPEANORV MO vse si isis eisc ccc ocic cs Soca caass Feature Editor
D Dz Associate Editor
R. L. eegeveues ---Associate Editor
Cc. F. -Associate Editor
B. B. Associate,Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

Ay Mii BUAN SO Necssnatcasucecuccusac: Assistant Business Manager
A. L. MEBANE... ...-Assistant Business Manager
uy, ie WHITTE .---Assistant Business Manager

ARG ORRUOW tiascuséccbecsduskousuauceba Subscription Manager
W._T. ure, Solicitor
. F. NEAL..... wees licitor
i B. WOOTTON Solicitor
A. H. Solicitor

I. By VA Rises ccsccsedscas President
pS ROAM Wicsss cols eas auakbcsccuscuascueeure Vice-President
LEWIS Secyetary-Treasurer

M. W. ALDERMAN . L. McCLINTOCK

R. H. ALDERMAN V. L. McILWINEN

G, E. BAILY EF, F. McPHAIL

D. B. BAILEY W. C. NEILL

B. C. BARNES W._L. NORTHEN

. E. BOWERS Cc. E, NORVELL

. E, BOY E, L. POWELL

. H. COVINGTON S. P. PRESTON

S. K. EATON P, M. ROGER

J. B, FICKLIN RB. L. ROSE

G. L. GULLETTE T. H. (0)

pack HELLINGER N. W. WALLACE

. C. HENRY K, D. EKS

} A. HUNTER W. R. WARD

. E. LORRAINE W. T. THOMPSON

T. F. WOOD i, W. WHITE

W. F. MULLISS . PRATT-THOMAS

MAY 4, 1932

We are never without help. We have no right
to say of any good work, it is too hard for me
to do; or of any sorrow, it is too hard for me to
bear; or of any sinful habit, it is too hard for
me to overcome.—Elizabeth Charles.

THOUGHTS IN PASSING

The second anniversary of the student body ban-
quet was run off successfully and also very im-
pressively last week. One of the main features of the
affair was the playing of the North Carolinians. This
orchestra has improved greatly in the last two months
and they seem more harmonious to us than many
better known orchestras,

pa , Yemen ieee
This past week-end the pulchritude at Salem Col-

lege was resplendent at the annual May Day pro-

gram. Those members of our student body who were
fortunate enough to attend, enjoyed themselves to the
fullest extent.

pee) eee

This new honorary pre-medical fraternity, Pi
Delta Alpha, has proved itself to be one of the most
active organizations on the campus, despite its youth-
fulness. They are to be commended on securing such
a man as Dr. O. L. Miller to lecture here.

ep ee

According to various authorities on music, and
among them Dean Vardell of Salem College, Miss
Charlotte Lockwood is one of the foremost organists
in the country. Everyone on the campus on May 5,
when she will appear here, should make every effort
possible to attend this recital.

-D
A TRIBUTE

In writing an editorial of this kind it is extreme-
ly difficult to treat with the subject successfully,
since the facts are so well known. This short ar-
ticle contains nothing which is not already evi-
dent, and it would take an abler pen than ours to
do justice to this subject. We wish this sketch
merely to be taken as a reflection of the facts al-
ready widely known on the campus at Davidson.

Carl Pritchett came to Davidson in the fall of
1926 as a freshman and in each of the four years
he spent here as a student he attained great dis-
tinction, climaxed by his election to the position
of president of the student body in his senior year.
Throughout the four years he was a student his
work was largely connected with the Y. M. C. A.,
in which he was vitaly interested. At his gradua-
tion in June, 1930, the position of Y. M. C. A.
secretary was left vacant when Camper O’Neal
left at the end of this college year. Mr. O’Neal
was a very efficient and effective worker, and
as this place is a very important one, it was
‘doubly hard to fill. Because of his interest in the
“Y,” and in working with boys, this position was
offered to him. His acceptance was enthusiasti-
cally received, and this position has been extreme-
ly well filled in the past two years. His executive
ability coupled with his personality and under-
_ standing of college students and their vicissitudes,
has made him: invaluable as an advisor ‘and a
friend.

After two years in this' position he has decided

‘to leave Davidson and enter the Seminary. It is
with a feeling of regret that we are forced to part
with a person with such a character and person:

:

OPEN FORUM

We have been wondering about thought. So many of
our speakers come here and flatter us by presenting num-
berless problems which they say we college students must
solve. They tell us that the problems of the world are
ours and yet we cannot even so much as prophesy the
outcome of the next track meet. They tell us to get a
stick, go down to our stone wall, sit, whittle, and medi-
tate. And yet we wonder whether or not we would ac-
complish anything by sitting there a whole day. Somehow
we ‘do. without thinking—no need for it, perhaps. And
then, the world will get along without our efforts.

We tried keeping a journal, imitating, as it were, our
old friend, Emerson, jotting down all of those brilliant
flashes which come to all of us once in a while, as sur-
prises and revelations of old, yet new truths, but the
journal looked rather bare with one or two weeks be-
tween every thought. We asked what was the matter
with our thought-life and our mode of living. After all,
all of us spend most of our college days under our pres-
ent system discovering and correlating facts and prac-
tically none of our time in wise generalization and direct
application. Our minds are supposed to be golden treas-
uries; but the heaps of gold have tumbled over and we
stand confused to know where we are. Is it only the
genius or the fanatic who has thoughts, who believes he

knows his mind, who can influence the lives of others?

Here is the epitome of the whole matter: a student comes
to our campus, becomes adjusted to our life, attends
classes for a while, goes to our meetings, all the time
expecting great inspiration and stimulation; he expects to
lead a new life, to see new vistas unfolding before him,
to be almost lifted out of his former self. But he fails to
find that new inspiration, the greater stimulation, only
too often, and at the end of four years, except for the
increase in factual knowledge, he leaves school intellectu-
ally, culturally, and sometimes even spiritually the same

‘man he was when he entered.

Where shall we look for our weaknesses? Of course,
we must first examine ourselves. Some of us enter Da-
vidson poorly prepared for college work; some of us
are immature and youthful not only in body but also in
mind; and worst of all, some of us enter without that
quickening desire for knowledge, for understanding, for
truth, for that breaking out of these bodies of ours into
something less earthly, more’ spiritual. Then, too, we are
rather provincial in both speech and thought, and we lack
that cosmopolitanism which only the convention of stu-
dents and professors from many sections of our country
can give. We need a certain infusion of new, even start-
ling ideas, ideas which will break through our crust of
indifference and self-satisfaction. W eneed the leavening
agency of personalities, queer personalities, personalities
hard to understand but delightful when fully appreciated.
And almost paradoxically perhaps, we need the drive
from home. The Jewish people, like every other people,
has its faults, but serious as their faults may be, they
never restrain or hold this race back from taking every
opportunity and pushing it to the limit; theirs is an in-
ward drive from the father and mother and family; theirs
is the desire to cut through every barrier in the road to
success. We are blessed, to be sure, by ample bank ac-
counts and checks, but all of us need more the moral sup-
port of a cheering team back home. Further than that,
we suffer from a dearth of courses in which the major
emphasis is placed upon thought. How much thought is
provoked or evoked by the average curriculum? Our lan-
guage courses deal with thoughts, but emphasize expres-
sion and form and correctness. Our mathematics courses
deal with thinking, but stress the method. And those vital
courses which should lead to the revelational and stimu-
lating are too often so guarded as to leave no place and
sometimes no inclination for questionirig or discussion.
And finally we are children of our age. There is no reason
to believe that our predecessors did much more thinking
than we; they had other activities to occupy them even as
we; they had their agricultural pursuits, taking no small
part of their time; they had less equipment and a smaller
library; they had a smaller student body and an outlook
on life more provincial by reason of slow transportation
and communication. But we of nineteen thirty-two have
other affairs—our sports, our social engagements, our
trips over the states, our week-ends abroad. And while
these-engagements have their broadening influences, they
cause forgetfulness of the “sweet food of academic insti-
tution,” of “plain living and high thinking.” ‘

But why look at the seamy side of the picture? We are
the children of our age and our country: America as a
whole is suffering from growing pains, but she is awaken-
ing from her great cultural sleep to find that she has one
opportunity denied to Europe, to see the beginning, the
development, the fruition of a new culture; her dance,
her music, her painting, her poetry, her ‘theater, even her
great cathedrals are just in the period of ‘conception. And
particularly during these more serious times, the minds
of workers are turning from foolish spending to work,
and the minds of the students from “collegiatism” to
study. This great movement is reflected in our lives: our
professors hajl an increased interest in study on the stu-
dents’ part and on the part of the professors, the students
are constantly demanding more and more approach to

perfection. So it is onward then, to a bigger and better
Davidson!

—Frederick Hellegers.

ality, but we are sure that his future will be even
more outstanding than his past. We are confident
that Carl Pritchett will succeed in whatever branch
of the ministry he undertakes and that he will
leave his mark of Christian service on everything
which he may undertake in the future. Although
we dislike to see him leave, we rejoice to know
that he will have'a far wider, but no more deeply
appreciated, field in which to work after his Sem-
inary days.

Keyhole Komment
By
CASKIE NORVELL

Well, the latest one they’ve tried on us is that
they’re" not going to let the Pan-Hellenic Council
Pp final d this year. How much truth there
is in it, we don’t know, but that noted woman, Dame
Rumor, hath it that final dances, shin-digs, and similar
celebrations will be taboo this year. If you want to
know more about it, meet the committee (any of
them) and ask them about it.

Another irrepressible freshman came through in Dr.
“Jerry” McConnell’s first period history class the other
day, and said that the illustrious senatorial prospect’s
brother had made public that Dr. “Jerry’ was running for
Senator on his (Dr. J. W.’s) popularity. Our good pro-
fessor vociferously denied the statement, and also an-
nounced that he did not choose to run for Senator in
1932. Amid many huzzahs and cat. calls, his class was
summarily dismissed.

This grieves us deeply to print this, but we feel
that we owe it to our scandal-loving public to let
them know that our football captain, “Bud” Raker,
was narrowly defeated in a heated campaign for class
poet.

Another thing that has come to our attention is that
the freshmen and sophomores have two exams on the
last day. And not only that, but they’re going to let us
go to school two extra days.

Your correspondent was recently informed by one
of his sleuths that one of the more broad-minded
Freshmen was now haying his underwear made by
the Mammoth Tent and Awning Co. This isn’t who
you think it is, so we fooled you on that. Just look
around you for Mammoth labels, and you'll soon find
out who he is.

One of Davidson’s most prominent fraternities broke
into the limelight last Thursday night by running off one
of the most delightful games of hide and seek seen on
the campus in some time. However, alas, alack, and other
expressions! One woman drove up in a car, and the game
ended on the spot as she was showered with attention
by the assembled “Greeks.” :

Marbles are again with us. Captain Bill and Man-
ager “C. R.” will be glad to arrange for matches in
front of Georgia for any afternoon in the week. Due
to the former’s uncanny skill with the spheres, he
has been declared campus champion, and will take
on all comers. Look what The Observer tournament
missed.

We were looking over the absence list recently, and
we've come to the conclusion that several of our number
are taking an hour’s credit course in meeting the com-
mittee. %

The yellow sweater club of the fourth floor West ap-
pears to be the newest social organization 6n the, cam-
pus. The flower is the pansy, and the members all dress
in yellow sweaters, and the pledges only have yellow
spots on their sweaters. Rushing prospects include any-
one who wears yellow ties or socks. There is such an
organization. My fourth floor man told me of the goings
on in the penthouse of West.

One of the inmates of Penthouse Watts has taken
to keeping mice for a hobby. He has a fine collection
of five, which he caught with an ingenious device,
an invention of his, and which he is justly proud of.
He has all of his rats named and well trained. They
are on exhibition, and he will be glad to show them
at any time.

“The Wet Parade” and “The Mouthpiece” were well
worth seeing at the local cinema shanty during the past
week. According to advance rumors you shoudn’t miss
“Tarzan, the Ape Man,” and “The Woman in Room 13.”
They’re both here this week.

During the speeches, supposedly short, at the stu-
dent body banquet last week, one of the more austere
gentlemen waxed eloquent, and orated at extreme
length, in fact for a good fifteen minutes or longer.
There ought to be a law. Aside from that it was a
rip-roaring success, and a fine custom, and deserves
the support of all the students.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

Converse

Converse has secured for its tommencement speakers
this year Dr. Andrew Sledd, professor of New Testa-
ment Greek in the School of Theology at Emory Uni-
versity in Atlanta, who will preach the baccalaureate
sermon Sunday morning, May 15, and Dr. Francis Pendle-
ton Gaines, president of Washington and Lee University,
who will deliver the commencement day address on
Wednesday morning, May 18.

Washington and Lee

A while back a few of the Washington and Lee boys
attended the first dance that Hollins has ever held. Nat-
urally, as the dance was held at Hollins, the girls asked
the boys up, had to introduce them, and break on them.
A good many of the supposed “power-houses” with the
women found that they were not so powerful but had
to sit out many a dance alone or with some other fellow-
sufferer. The boys who were least expected to be pop-
ular got the biggest rush. If any Davidson boys do any-
thing like that it is up to my friend across the page,
Keyhole Komment,.to find it out and tell us something
about it.

: Vv. M. I.

From Air Echoes, a part of The Cadet: Remember ?—
“One-tube sets that squealed and squeeked to high heaven
-.. “My Blue Heaven” ... Ted Husing describing the
Floyd Bennett funeral in a driving rains:orm . . . “Ro-

World Spectator

The University of Pittsburgh has adopted a new sys-
tem of instruction in which the classroom will be a thing
of the past. The students will sign up for a course and
will study whenever and wherever they please. If they
have any questions or difficulties, they are to confer
with their professors. The only meeting of the class is
at the time of the final examination, at which time they
are tested on all the subject matter they have covered.
This new system is not to be applied to all the classes,
but certain requirements are necessary for the student
to be allowed to take the “informal or conference”
courses. If the progress of the students ‘is not satisfac-
tory, back they go to the classroom. This system of in-

struction has been experimented with for several years

and it has been found that with some students the plan
works, while in other cases the freedom is too much.

The trial of Lt. T. M. Massie, Mrs. Massie, Mrs.
Fortescue, E. J. Lord, and A. O. Jones for the murder of
Joe Kahahawai in Honolulu has possibilities of setting
up racial trouble in Hawaii. This trial, which was caused
by the death of Kahahawai some time after he and some
other Hawaiian half-casts had assaulted the wife of the
naval officer, has about drawn to a close.

The thing which is most likely to stir up racial trouble
is an incident in the process of the trial in which Mrs.
Massie tore up some of the state’s evidence without any
of the court officials intervening. Since Hawaii is popu-
lated by many races, the natives may conclude that great
partiality is being shown in the halls of justice on the
islands. They may consider that if a native woman were
to be in Mrs. Massie’s place, the court would not have
let the incident pass, but would have inflicted some pen-
alty for the tearing up of the document. At the present,
no actions have been seen, but it is known that Hawaii
is a very fertile hot-bed for any racial trouble which
might start from a very small source.

If you use newspaper space as the test for the best
known American in England, it has been found that Al
Capone is the most familiar to the English. The British
papers, which after all are no different from American
ones, play up all the happenings of the gangster and any
other famous (or infamous) character whose actions are
exciting or different.. After all, people read papers for
entertainment and would rather read something excit-
ing or daring than the every-day happenings which prob-
ably have a greater influence upon them.

A proof that the world is not satisfied with the pres-
ent conditions is the outbreak in New Zealand in which
a riot raged on the streets of Auckland, the capital, for
two nights. However, some think that the rioting was not
caused by social unrest or unemployment because of the
fact that food shops were not bothered in the looting of
the stores of Auckland. This shows that it was not a
hungry mob, and the large per cent of youths in the
mob shows that serious social unrest was not the cause
either. Therefore the only solution for the question is to
believe that the mob was made up of hooligans who were
desirous of vandalizing the shops for no good reason
whatsoever. However, the fact remains that a great deal
of damage was done, ahd the riot was quelled only after
the police, marines, and firemen had been called to the
scene. It may be that there is an underlying reason for
this outbreak which has not been disclosed to the rest of
the world.

In an English schoolroom recently an amusing inci-
dent occurred. The Prince of ,Wales was visiting the
school, and all the pupils were thronging around him. In
the congestion the Prince stepped upon the foot of one of
the little boys. When he found this out, His Royal High-
ness presented his foot and gave the little schoolboy per-
mission to step upon it. The boy took him at his word and
clamped his foot down upon the toes of the Prince.

The United States Treasury Department is soon to
start the circulation of a new twenty-five cent piece. The
reason for this change is that the experts believe that the
present quarter does not have the wearing qualities that
it should have. It has been said that instead of having
the figure of a woman on one side and an eagle on the
other, the new coin will be stamped with the head of
George Washington. How soon the new coin will appear
is not known.

mona” (who wouldn’t?) ... Moran and Mack, the two
black crows ... Gene Austin... Vincent Lopez broad-
casting the first Sunday jazz program and the sensation
he created.” Walter Winchell is out for about a month
with a nervous breakdown, Louis Sobol, another New
York newspaper man, is taking his place. Carry on Louis
and Caskie. Good Victor records of recent recording are:
“Somebody Loves you” (Pickens Sisters), “Sing a New
Song” (Coon-Sanders), “Lovable” and “Too Many
Tears” (Leo Reisman), “You're the One” (Waring
Pennsylvanians), “Downhearted” (George Olsen), and
“Who Played Poker With Pocahontas—When John
Smith Was Away” (Fletcher Henderson).

Auburn

We may have crips up here at Davidson, but look at
some of the subjects that credits are given in other
schools throughout the country. At Temple University,
credit is given for courses in social etiquette; at Barnard,
for a course ‘in resting; New York University for the
course in personality development, and Southern Cali-
fornia gives credjt for a course of geneolgy to get the
students to look up their family tree. Why not a course
in bull sessions?
