THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 27, 1932

DEACON TRACK

TEAMS HERE
TODAY

THE SPORTS PARADE

SALISBURY HI

VS. FRESH
FRIDAY

’"CAT-TALES~ ;
i
ODI CASALI

Davidson’s major teams seem
have reached a winning stride once more.

The Wildcat track team, by defeating V. M.)

sports

cat baseball team has several more games|

to win before it can, boast of a percentage

over the .500 mark, but from the way things| Seven hits be chalked up against him, while his
The David-
son men collected 22 hits off the four pitchers
Mis and

Mathis led in the hitting with four hits apiece.

looked in the last two games, Davidson’s

diamond representatives seem to be headed,

in the right direction, at least.

Things looked mighty gloomy to Coach
“Red” Laird last Thursday, when he took his
Wildcat nine to Charlotte to engage the Hor-
nets, and had to leave “Doc” Mathis and
Bruce Peabody on the campus, because the
two had failed to make the necessary aver-
age in their studies to enable them to go
with the team on its trips. But the way the
substitutes performed in the Charlotte game
made Laird feel better, since it revealed un-
known strength to him.

In the meantime, Mathis and Peabody have
studied a little harder and brought their av-
erages above the required mark so that now
both are eligible to make trips with the
team.

It certainly seems strange to us that the
Davidson baseball team has been able to win
only one game on Richardson Field this sea-
son, Ordinarily a team is more successful on
its home grounds than on foreign diamonds.
But the case is.just opposite with the Wild-
cats. teams, Elon and Lenoir-Rhyne,
have defeated Davidson on the local field, but
the Wildcats have avenged both losses by
winning from these teams their fields.
There must be some explanation to this.

Two
on

Perhaps the fault lies in the lack of sup-
port to the team on the part of the student
body. The Davidson student body seems to
have that famous Wildcat Spirit in every
sport except the national pastime, which is
the most enthusiastic and lively game on the
part of the spectators in most schools and
communities. In order to play its best game,
a team must have wholehearted support of
its fans throughout the contest. When the
players fail to get this support, they slack in
their playing and consequently lose games.

One fact which helps reveal that the Da-
vidson team has not been getting the whole-
hearted support of the student body is that
of the failure of Davidson students to stand
during the seventh inning. This is a custom
which is observed in every big league as
well as most college games. Why Davidson
students fail to observe it is probably because
of their lack of support to the team.

And another thing. Several Davidson stu-
dents are prone to hiss at the umpire when-
ever he makes a wrong decision or calls a
close play contrary to their desires. These
students forget that the umpire is also hu-
man and subject to make errors just as the
players themselves are. When we consider
that an umpire handles about 400 chances in
one game, we find that percentage of
error is very low.

his
Let us not forget our sportsmanship.

After meeting Wake Forest's cinder teams
today, both of Davidson's track squads will
see action again this week-end. The varsity
goes to Columbia, S. C., to meet the Uni-
versity of South Carolina next Saturday for
its third engagement in eight days, and the
Davidson Freshmen will be hosts to Salis-
bury High here Friday.

Davidson Netmen to
Meet Virginia Teams

The Davidson College tennis team left here
Monday morning on the longest and most stren-
uous trip of the season. This trip will carry
them as far north as Richmond and will keep
thém away an entire week. They will play five
matches in all; the first was with Carolina on
Monday, and they will meet four strong Vir-
ginia teams before returning to Davidson.

The match with Carolina was the only one
in this state for the Wildcat netmen. On Tues-
day -the racquet wielders met William and
Mary College at Williamsburg, Va. Today <is
an open day for the team and tomorrow they

will play a return match with the U'niversity
of Richmond at Richmond. Friday the Wild-
cats will meet the Hampden-Sydney pl: yers and
Saturday they will close their tour it a match

to)

"CAT CINDERMEN DEFEAT V. M.I.

’Cats Run Wild to Beat

Lenoir-Rhyne Bears 21-2

Last Saturday afternoon the Wildcats added
I. Saturday, made it two straight victories | | Lenoir-Rhyne to their string of victories on the
for an even break for the season. The Wild- |

diamond by beating the Bears 21 to 2 at Hick-
ory.
Bailey. turned in a fine game, letting only

teaminates gave him good support.
that the Bears ‘put on the mound.

The ‘Cats scored two runs in the first,
brackets, and six in the
their total of 21 runs.

every

final inning,
During the whel-

Davidson man succeeded in getting

cight
in the fourth, three and two in the following two
to make
game,

at

ciel pee ae a es y}of Charlotte bats completely in submission, but] plate four times to retain individual scoring
art ine Sere we Beate apes A “lhe must step aside fer a moment to allow honors with 13. Mills also scored four times |
a. uu ch W ee Be eed Field. “Buck” Mills, Davidson shortstop, to have his) to tie with Mathis for seeond honors at 10 runs
Bae errors made by Lenoir-Rhyne marred the due. Mills not only led the attack with the wile apiece.
P ee low by connecting for two triples and a single Blanton, by stealing one base during the weeks
DAVdeOn : Abo HOON five trips to the platter, but he cut off two increased his total to six to go into a tie with!
Bernhardt, 3b ..-_-____- Pe eV runs with A leaping one-hand stab of Rhines) Captain Bernhardt for first plaice in this de
Nol an the eee 4 2 2 7 1 hardt’s sizzling liner, with UAKkes dob the paths, to partment. Blanton also leads in extra base
Bee Ibs Voy ae eG complete a double play unassisted at a most | knoeks with 23.
Mills, oe Het sts y pied pete sae eee Meh ieetstAsinlo Giants 100 the Hornets. as A. B. Melean, substitute first baseman, was
Mitt trues te) Che Davidson nine had_ their big inning in| the only player to move into the 300 or hetter
BinlitoniecDieses = eee Khoa) 1 the second CEU) when J. D. Morrison opened {eroup during the week, He obtained three hits
NOMS Ook ees Vee SO up with a single. Morris was an infield victitn, | in nine tries for an average of .333
Waitin co. oe G0 Morrison going to second, and J. G, Morrison S| varsity batting averages :
J. G. Morrison, [ieectee Bere ea ry single taking him to third. McLean singled, | Player /Nhy 1k. ah, UM NW dhe dete
ip D. Morrison, rf pete 6 3 1 2 0 Morrison SCOPING, Pearce singled to fill the Mathis 47, 10 15 2 i] 0) O83
BaIRy, Doe cc Pega fee bases, and Bernhardt walked to foree a run in.) gifts Wee WN he 2 3 a) kis
= Eee Bradsher foreed McLean, and Mills erashed out | po, abody 4 bs 1) 1 4 () 366
Wile eS ed 5[n oy 0 a single to tally Bernhardt, and send Bradsher | pradsher — 44 hii 1 | 0 464
2 to third, Bernhardt and Bradsher then pulled | Croker 12 2 3 | () a) his
LenolreER oie AG at! cA off a neat double steal, with the former scoring, I Mel can 0 2 » 1 () () 333
Newton, di ipserene oo Tyne dno Blanton took a when he was hit by a pitched | Smyre 10 3 3 0 () 0) sto)
Montene ab va Wome ere hall, and J. D. Morrison grounded out to retire | Whitley 25 5 | 2 () 1 280)
xStetler ) W WO sR Ste can NS ee WW sy
TATRA eT pr ae 8 The Hornets scored two in the second and} pyanton 4-18 9 1 2 2 Onh
Btiie ee  eoe aca 8 2 one in the third frame, while Davidson scored | Morris 28 3 5 2 () 0) 250)
Ovecash 25 fee pee one in the seventh and another in the ninth. _| Bernhardt 5G 0 10 | 1 () 4
Bakley Ubieccs oe 4 1 2 5 0 Davidson r AN) VR WU (07 ANA | Morrison 36 ) 5 | 0 () 107
Hughes, Goes se eeG 0) 1 3 2 Bear. 3h t | 0 2 | 0| Pearce 19 3 3 () () 0 158
Mesimer, Hotter) (00 1 1 Mee a ----- ; 5 ‘ ; ; Bailey 13 1 ; 0) 0 0 077
KSGhap ese oe eae 0) 0 W W Z cle - re De aoe cian West I Le WW, Aol
TOUe ec ee Vee ores Ap D. Morrison, If ee ee Oe 0 Athatales 46on OOF 102.1 In) le; 3
Morris, ¢ ----- HO ase ele) Team batting : .283
DAViUEGH) ceteraecaoas---neee00) Bb2 G—01)) ae Lee i : , ; ;
TU cere. OLE Ue imeee Th) oe + 1 1 0 1 0| Wrestling Workouts
Sacrifice hits: McLean. Stolen bases: San 0
ders, Mathis, Blanton. Two-base hits: Hughes, | Metviths Wo Wl a To Start This Week
Mills. Three-base hits: Mills, Barkley. Hits off) Guitio. muuuilin: nenauiae will Health AbaInA
Kiser, 4 in 1 1-2’ innings; off Buff, 3 in 1 in | Hornets Why Ake TE CO} 07 N= daa this week under the tutelage of “Doc”
ning ; off Mesimer, 8 in 3 innings; dy Bailey, Weston, ef 6) 0 (0) 1 O O} Unger, w restling coach. Virst eal was. issued
7 in 9 innings; off Sanders, 7 in 3 1-2 innings. Culbreth, 3b ne erat § cst eae") Monin to members of beth the freshman and
Struck out by Bailey, Sanders, 1. Base on (Chetan, cee Ae Wo (0) ne 4 ae Hae leo TOnaR nti ionine en eo
halls: off Bailey 5; Mesimer 1.°Wild pitehes:| phines. rf Se Od GN ee ee eae
; ; ; ; Shiney, 1 he ready for workouts Jater in the week
Bailey, 1. Hit by pitcher: Mesimer, 2. Umpire : Lankford, p 2 Oe Oh On O20 eines intends, to hold three night practice:
EER REDS: Roetz, 2b _-- | | 0 4 8 Of each week until the end of the school term, In
Hudgens, 1b ~--—- BT 8 2 1 2 faddition, instructive workouts will be held) in
Wildkitten Nine Wins oe If -------- j ; ; ; 0 the gym every afternoon that bad weather pre
‘Farmer, ¢ ~-~-. . )) vents outdoor sports.
Over Ball Creek, 8-2 Kermode, p Ole Ue Usare 10 Invitation will be made later to anyone who
: ara gerry, rf ------ 3.0 1 1 0) O}fas not had any wrestling experience. Unger's
The Davidson Freshman baseball team added Pate caitianae Iecuedr only (dc hosecale tiie nih
another victory to their undefeated record last] -potals —_- eB dh 3 27 1S altenla arqiadac warn ie Ree RReoA BE ie args
Tuesday, April 19, by defeating the Ball Creek accra (Or Hie dogs wrestiing. ream,
nine, 8 to 2 eas Davidson -_—-- -050 000 101—7 In the spring workouts, Unger intends to drill
Although the hits for the two teams num-| Hornets —._----_-. So 021000 O00sed lite vannd dates in cundanientalelaide andemoue
bered about the same, the Freshmen got off to Two-base hits: McLean, Morris. Three-base | ments, with the Hope Of Guiting ar wellsexpent
a faster start than their opponents and kept up| pits; Mills, 2. Stolen bases: Bradsher, Mills. }enced and successful team on the mat next
(Continued on page 5) Sacrifice: Morris, Double plays: Mills to. Blan- | \inter.
ton to McLean, Mills (unassisted). Left on
with the University of Virginia team at Char- bases: Davidson 9; Hornets 8. Base on balls:

lottesville, Va.

The following men made the trip: J. A. Hal-
verstadt, J. W. Lafferty, C. F. Myers, Roger
Enloe, Captain Duncan Calder, and T. W. Mc-

Clean.

| Pearce Limits Hornets

To Three Lone Hits and

’Cats Win by 7-3 Score,

Wildcat Southpaw Aided by Heavy
Hitting and Stellar Fielding of
Buck Mills

Through the effective
little Charlie Pearce,
Wildcat baseball team showed
versal -of

hurling of a

the
a complete re-
form to down the Piedmont
champion Charlotte Hornets, 7-3,
day on Wearn Field, The °¢
team by 11 to 3, and just wild
enough to be effective, walking ten of the Bees.

The major credit for the vietory undoubtedly
goes to Portsider who held the

stocky
southpaw, Davidson
League |
last Wednes-
‘ats outhit the league

Pearce was

Pearce, harage

off Pearce 10;
Struck out: by
ford 3. Hits:
Lankford,

off Kermode 1; off Lankford 1,
Kermode 1; Lank-
6 in 5 innings; off
Hit by pitcher: by

Pearee 3;
off Kermode,
5 in 4 innings.

(Continued on page 5)

Seniors!

Representing

GET YOUR ENGRAVED CARDS for
COMMENCEMENT INVITATIONS
Prices $2.50 and $3.00
See P. M. CONWAY or D. G. MARTIN

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
GARLAND COURT
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

lage

Batting Averages Climb

As Wildcats Win Games

“Doe” Mathis, “Buck” Mills,
shortstop, clouted opponent pitching for 11 hits
during the past week to move into a tie for the

outfielder, and

leading place on the Davidson batting list.
Mathis gathered four hits in six times at bat
to increase his percentage from .341 to 383;

while
trips to raise his average from

Mills connected! safely seven times in 12
314 to 383

Several others also boosted their batting
team

aver
as the
points to a new high
Wildeats faced op

and connected safely

ages during the past week aver

increased 17
of 283.

average
In two games the
ponent pitchers 94 times
33 of them to score 28 runs.

crossed home

Fred Blanton, second baseman,

j dash,

i linn
',

jin the

ivault,

jgardner,

Davidson Cops F First ; in
Nine Events to Obtain
Victory Over Va. Cadets

Discus and Half-Mile Events Break Tie
to Give ’Cats Coveted
Victory

Davidson trackmen pulled several sur-
at V. M. L., to bring home
a 71% to 54% score.
the
but, clean sweeps
throw unbal-

“The
prises last Saturday
victory from the Cadets by
After the first
the contestants neck-and-neck,
in the

eight events score found
run and discus
the Wildcats a. commanding
advantage J

Fred Fleagle,

for

half-mile

anced it and gave

Davidson dash star, after sprint-
in the and 2.
third in the 440-yard
with 11

ing first place century 2)-vard
for
points. Bill
Davidson by taking first
first in the

and tieing for third in the high jump,

also, tools run

individuals scoring honors,

also starred for
broad tiene for

jump, pole

Captain Brannon, of the Wildeats, gave Bam-
the

beating

cross-country Cadets.
his first defeat of the
the two-mile

Joe Dill,
and hurled the

captain of

season by » him in

run,

Sophomore weight man, broke loose

discus 127.2 feet for first place

This mark came within a foot of the record set

this year by Cochran, also a Sophomore, Coech-

ran came next, and Knox shortly followed him
to completely shut out the Cadets in this event.

Summary :

100-yvard daslt—Won by Fleagle (1D); Wan-
ger (VMI); FE. Phillips (VMI). Time: 10.1.

Mile run-—Won by Turner (VMI); Buress
(VMI); Morrow (D). Time: 4:34.6

220-vard dash—Won hy Fleagle (D); E.
Phillips (VMI); Wanger (VMI). Time: 22.4.

10-yard high hurdles--Won by — Rawson
(VMI); McCallie (D); Pratt (D). Time:
15.8,

Two-mile run- Won by Brannon (D); Bum

“teardner COVYMIL); Horst CY ML). Time: 10:13.2.

WO-vard run--Won by Wellford (VMI);
“Rutschow (VMI); Fleagle (ID). Time: 50.6,

220-yard low hurdles Won by MeCallie
(D).; Wanger (VMI); Litthe (D). Time: 25.8

S80-vard run—-Won by Gwynn (1D); Cannon
(D); Corbin (D). Time: 2:05.8.

Shot put—Won by Cochran (D) ; Morehead
(VMI); Knox (D). Distance: 39 feet 7 inches.

Discus throwe-Won by Dill (D); Cochran
(D); Knox (D). Distance: 127.2 feet

Javelin throw—Won by Wright (VMI);
Johnson (D); Smith (VMI). Distance: 174
feet 6 inches.

Poe vault—Flinn (1D), and Roane (1D), tied
for first: Kerr (VMI), and Patterson (VMI),
tied for third. Height: 11 feet

High jump—J. Phillips (VMI), and Rhyne
(1D), tied for first; Wills (VMI), and Flinn
(1), tied for third. Height: 5 feet 7.5 inches

Broad jump-—Won by Khinn (D); Brown

VMI); Jolnston (VMI). Distance: 20 feet

(
5.75 inches.

Ball Souad Will Play
Members of Big Five

Coach “Red” Laird left
with his Wildeat nine for

“vesterday
of David
The trip will include
(Continued on page 5)

Davidson
an invasion

son's Big Five opponents.

More Sports on Page 5

J O JONES CO

“Davidson Headquarters in Charlotte”

COMPLETE OUTFITTERS
TO COLLEGE MEN

208 South Tryon Street

Charlotte

