THE DAVIDSONIAN,

JANUARY 27, 1932

——

Newsmagazine, Time, Had
Articles In It About Three
Davidson College Alumni

Record Made by S. Clay Williams,
1905 Alumnus, as New President
of R. J. Reynolds Tobacco
Company, Is Reviewed

ABOUT J. W. BROWN, 12

Brief Account Given About Life of
John W. Pope, Jr., ’20, Who Died
in New York Last November

The ‘national and international prominence of
Davidson alumpi has caused the magazine,
Time,.to devote space to three of them within
the last severaf months. Two of the articles
about Davidson men appeared in the last two
issues of the newsmagazine, and the other ap-
peared in November following the death of one
of the leading and most colorful figures in the
New York financial market.

Under the larger caption of, “Business and
Finance,” Time, in its January 25th issue, had
an article headed, “Reynolds’ Record,” dealing
specifically with the success which has heen
attained by S. Clay Williams, 1905 alumnus
of Davidson and new president of R. J. Rey-
nolds Tobacco Company. The magazine used
a photograph of Mr. Williams, and the portion
of the article dealing with his record partic-
ularly is as follows:

“Rare is the corporation president who, tak-
ing office in 1931, can point to his first year
as record high in the company’s profit his-
But such is the accomplishment of large,
suave, meticulous Samuel Clay Williams, who
became president of R. J. Reynolds Tobacco
Company in June, 1931. Last week Mr. Wil-
liams reported net 1931 earnings of $36,396,816.
The previous high (1930) was $34,256,665.

“In contrast to his predecessor, Bowman
Gray (now chairman) who is a great tobacco
salesman, and to William N. Reynolds, execu-
tive committee chairman, who is a great to-
bacco buyer, Mr. Williams must be described
as a great tobacco lawyer. He was born on a
North Carolina farm and always had more fun
watching his father’s lumber mill and cotton
gin than he did doing chores.

tory.

“Moving from the practice of law in Greens-
boro, N. C., to Reynolds’ assistant general coun-
selship, he dropped the assistant portion of the
title in 1921, added a vice-presidency in 1925.
Now, 47, he conceals beneath a soft North Car-
olina drawl a hair-trigger mind and a_hair-
splitting passion for accuracy in both spoken
and written word.”

In the January 18th issue of Time, under
“Foreign Affairs,” there was a dispatch from
Rumania, with the sub-head, “Last Survivor.”
It was about J. W. Brown, 12, who is doing
Y. M. Ce A. work in Rumania, and is the only
one of 47 American Y. M. C. A. secretaries
who has not been ejected from the country.

Last fall Mr. Brown sent the alumni office
a group photograph of five, which included
Niculae Mishu, the Rumanian Davis Cup tennis
player; the ex-King George and ex-Queen
Elizabeth of. Greece; Miss Golescu, woman’s
singles tennis champion of the Balkans, and Mr.
Brown. Time’s report follows:

“The bird was bouncing swiftly from bat
to bat in the Bucharest Badminton Club one
day last week when sad news suddenly spread
through the galleries: James Walker Brown
had been ordered home. Former Queen Eliza-
beth of Greece and her friend the Princess of
Hohenlohe heard it in the royal box.

“‘Oh,’ cried her ex-Majesty, ‘he simply
mustn't go! We simply can’t get along without
our Badminton Club.’ :

“James Walker Brown“is necessary to the
existence of the Bucharest Badminton Club
because the club plays in and was organized

by the Rumanian branch of the Y. M. C. A..

Sole survivor of 47 Y. M. C. A. secretaries sent
to Rumania since 1919 was Mr. Brown. In the
early days Rumanians felt that it was an un-
pardonable impudence for the U. S. to send
them missionaries of any sort. The Orthodox
Church was opposed to the Y. M. C. A.; Ru-
manian students threatened the secretaries with
assault. Under efficient Mr. Brown all these
’ difficulties were straightened out. A gymnasium
‘was built. The Rumanian Y. M..C. A. sum-
mer camp became famed. The Badminton Club
was organized and the flower of Rumania’s
eas joined it.
“Last week U. S. headquarters suddenly an-
nounced that there was no more money to carry
Ci 2

— ——

ALUMNI PERSONAL NOTES

Alumni visiting Davidson during the past sev-
eral weeks included Dr. G. A. Brown, '94, of
Mt. Ulla; Rev. L. C. Vass, ’94, of Chatta-
nooga, Tenn.; Henry T. Mills, ’06, Greenville,
S. C.; Hugh A. Query, ’09, Gastonia; J. Lat-
imer McClintock, ’10, of Charlotte; J. M. Black,
18, of Greenville, S. C.; Dr. Geo. M. Robson,
19, of Haddenfield, N. J.; Dr. Chas. M. Rob-
son, 19, of Chapel Hill; Robert L. Black, ’22
Wilmington; Rev. L. P. Burney, ’23. of Char-
lotte; Roland B. Parker, ’26, of Chapel Hill;
W. T. Spencer, ’26, Gastonia; Rev. T. H. Ham-
ilton, 27, of Richmond, Va.; R. L. Lincoln, ’27,
of Marion, Va.; Wm. C. Archie, ’28, of Oak
Ridge; R. W. Carr, ’28, of Gaffney, S. C.;
J. W. Grey, ’28, of Charlotte; Prof. T. EF.
Lothery, Jr., ’28, of Clinton, S. C.; Sam L.
Black, ’29, of Concord; F. N. Littlejohn, Jr.,
29, of Charlotte; Riggs McConnell, ’29, of
University, Va., and J. R. Caldwell, Jr., 31, of
Port Gibson; Miss.

Friends will regret to learn of the following
recent deaths: Mrs. Rebecca Sharpe, mother
of Dr. Frank A. Sharpe, ’10, of Greensboro;
Dr. Eugene Caldwell, brother of A. S. Cald-
well, Jr., '01, of High Point, and half-brother

of David G. Caldwell, ’31, of Davidson; G.
Henry Brown, father of Dr. J. S. Brown, ’89,
of Hendersonville, and Dr. Geo. A. Brown, '94,

of Mount Ulla; Mrs. Isabell Hill, mother of
‘Major Robert B. Hill, ’10, of Fort Riley, Kans.,
and Dr. T. M. Hill, ’16, of New Kensington,
Pa.; Livingstone Murphy Williams, son of Rev.
Murphy Williams, '94, of Greensboro, and
brother of Worth Williams, ’26, of Greensboro,
and James C. Williams, ’29, of Haverford, Pa.;
L. C. Hunter, father of Rev. Coyte Hunter, ’19,
of Bessemer City; Mrs. J. C.» Sims, sister of
Mayor Scott Candler, ’07, of Decatur, and
Milton A. Candler, '14, of Chay otte; Miss
Janet Hollister, sister of Charles 'S. Hollister,
'20, of New Bern, and- Dr. William Hollister,
16, of New York; David A. Beaver, father of
J. A. Beaver, ’24; and the mother of C. Fulton
Saussy, '33, of Jacksonville, Fla.

on The Work. The club must be disbanded,
Mr. Brown must be recalled. Honorary presi-
dent of the Y. M. C. A. is none other than
Prince Nicholas. Last week he let it be known
that as soon as his difficulties with his brother
and his marriage were cleared up he would
intervene on Mr. Brown’s behalf.”

John W. Pope, Jr., 1920 alumnus of David-
son, died in New York on November 23rd, at
the early age of 32. He was a financial genius,
and figured prominently in the stock market
fluctuations. An account of Mr. Pope's death
will be published in a later issue of The David-
sonian, but under the head, “Business and Fi-
nance,” Time had the following to say:

“Last week, as it must to all men, death came
to John Walker Pope, Jr., 32, independent mem-
ber of the New York Stock Exchange. After
studying at the Harvard Graduate School of
Business Administration, he quickly gained a
reputation for masterly interpretation of sta-
tistics. Since the beginning of the Bear Market
he was known-to have made tremendous profits
selling short securities of companies he knew to
be in bad condition.

“His activities in selling short Fox Film led
to an investigation by the Stock Exchange. Al-
though he was exonerated of violating the rules
or ethics of the Exchange, the long trial was a
severe strain from which he was slow in re-
covering, Weakened by dn attack of whooping
cough, he died last week from a lung infec-
tion. Although he was mentioned as one of the
leading bears; John Pope frowned on raiding,
pools, manipulative tactics in general.”

, | ton;

During the month of January, 27 ministers of
the Southern Presbyterian Church registered
at Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va.,
for special courses and to be present at the an-
nual Sprunt Lectures. Of this group, 16 of
them were alumni of, Davidson, and those at-
tending included Rev. F. A. Barnes, 95, of
Harmony; Rev. J. F. Menius, ’11, of Lilling-
Rev. W. S. Golden, '13, of Carthage;
Rev. J. R. McGregor, ‘14, of Lexington; Rev.

1C. A. McGirt, ’20, of Sandston, Va. ; Rev. J.
|W. Witherspoon, '20, of Shepherdstown, W.
Va.: Rev. C. N. Morrison, ’21, of Greensboro ;

Rev. S. M. Query, ’21, of Montvale, Va.; Rev.
J. 1. Parks, ’22, Spencer; Rev. R. H. Poole,
'22, of Elizabethtown; Rev. S. H. Bradley, ’23,

of Roanoke Rapids; Rev. H. D. Brown, Jr.,
'25, of Lynchburg, Va.; Rev. J. M. Carr, ’25,
of Berryville, Va.; Rev. R. M. Carr, ’25, of

Louisa, Va.; Rev. I. E. Hager, '27, of Keysville,
Va., and Rev. E. D. Witherspoon, ’27, of Win-
chester, Va.

The alumni office has recently received a full
copy of the able and stirring address delivered
at Chapel Hill in July, 1931, by Hon. Chas.
G. Rose, 1900, upon the eve of his retirement
as president of the North Carolina Bar Asso-
ciation. This address attracted nation-wide at-
tention, and so insistent were the demands for
the full context that it has now been published
in pamphlet form.

John R. Falls, '28, who studied law in Wash-
ington, D.. C., for the, past two years, is now
a student at the University of Miami, and is
residing at 2741 Southwest Fifth St. Miami,
Florida.

The Raleigh News and Observer daily has*a
cartoon headed, “It Never Can Happen Again,”
in which events occurring 25 years ago took
place. In its issue of January P5th, it had this
item, “B. R..Lacy, Jr., was a candidate for the
Rhodes Scholarship.” This was Dr. Ben R.
Lacy, '06, now president of Union Theological
Seminary, Richmond, Va. The young student,
then’ known simply as Ben Lacy,@was a suc-
cessful candidate for that scholarship.

Alfred F. Burgiss, ’28, of Greenville, S. C.,
was one of nine applicants who successfully
passed the South Carolina Bar examination in
December, and has been admitted to practice ‘in
that state.

D. T. Bradshaw, '11, who suffered harrowing
experiences last summer when he was marooned
with a trapping party on Guadalupe Island, off
the California coast, has returned to his home
near Efland, N.°C.

L. C. Wadsworth, ’29, is gaining valuable
newspaper experience as a member of the staff
of The Suwannee Democrat, published at Live
Oak, Fla. The editor of this paper is active at
press association meetings, and during the past
year, Mr. Wadsworth “put out” 15 papers with-
out the editor's assistance.

Friends of Dr. °S. M. Henderson, ‘93, of
Charlotte, are advocating his candidacy for the
North Carolina Senate, as a representative from
Mecklenburg County.

Scott Chandler, ’07, has been re-elected for
the 17th consecutive time as mayor of Decatur,
Ga. In response to a congratulatory letter writ-
ten him by the alumni office, Mr. Candler
replied that he had’ no desire to be mayor of
Decatur for the next half-century, but “sin-
cerely trust that my interest and connection

with Davidson may last that long.”

we oe",
UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
- Faculty of Distinguished Scholars 4
Student body drawn from forty-two Colleges and Universities.
Alumni in every Synod, in every Presbytery, and on every
Mission Field of the Southern Presbyterian Church.
Catalog and information on request.
o *o

Harold F. Coffey, '20, president of the Kent-
Coffey Manufacturing Company, 0 of Lenoir, was
elected president of the Furniture Club of
America, at a recent meeting of this organiza-
tion in Chicago. Mr. Coffey has lately refused
to consider a post on the Caldwell County
Board of Commissioners, but the People of that
section are. threatening to conscript him into
this additional field of service.

Friends in.and near Wadesboro honored Gen.
W. A. Smith, ’64, of Ansonville, upon the oc-
casion of his 89th birthday on January 11th.
Gen. Smith, a visitor to Davidson twice within
the past few years, is commander of the North
Carolina Confederate Veterans.

Rev. C. D. Whiteley, 14, has accepted the
pastorate of the First Presbyterian Church at
Albemarle, and came from his former residence
at Logan, W. Va., to begin his duties in Albe-
marle on January 17th. The former pastor of
this church, Dr. C. G. Long, ’21, is ui? a
year in study and travel.

Dr. E. N. Booker, ’20, of Selma, has been
chosen as secretary-treasurer of the Johnston

County Medical Society.

At recent meetings of religious organizations,
the following were honored: Dr. U. S, Alex-
ander, ’15, of Charlotte, was chosen “a trustee
of Mecklenburg Presbytery; Rev. R. E. Mc-
Clure, ’20, of New Bern, was made secretary-
treasurer of the Ministerial Association of that
city, retiring as vice-president, and Rev. L. P.
Burney, '23, of Charlotte, was made vice-presi-
dent of the Presbyterian Ministers Association
of that city.

Dr. EF. Faison, ’24, is connected with the
Sale i Maryland Medical School in the
department of pathology.

Raymond C. Lippard, ‘11, is district man-
ager of the Equitable Life Assurance Society
with headquarters at 14 Haden Building, @v-
lumbia, Mo. °

Archie W. McLean, ’31, is now connected
with the. office of Congressman J. Bayard
Clarke, ‘05, in Washington, and is residing at
614 East Capitol St., Washington, D. C. He
is clerk of the elections committee number one.
Wirt W. Harrison, Jr., ’30, is likewise in
Washington, a roommate of Mr. McLean, and
is clerk of a committee on printing. Both are
taking business courses at night at Strayer Col-
lege.

Wm. A. Mason, '31, student in the law school
at Duke University, has been elected by his
classmates as president of the first-year law
group.

Friends will regret to learn that Dr. J. F.
Laton,.’06, of Albemarle, suffered two broken
ribs, bruises and lacerations when his car vkid-
ded and turned over. His injuries were not
considered serious. The wife and two-year-old
son of Douglas McMillan, '15, of Red Springs,
were critically injured the latter part of De-
cember when a car crashed into another driven
by Mr. McMillan. The latter was unhurt. Mrs.

For

ty

Men and Boys

TE

= HANES IS “MASCULINE”
FOR “UNDERWEAR”

Specialists in male comfort determine the styles and measurements, and

. place every seam in HANES. Soft, long-wearing materials! Expert tailor-

Over 25 years of manufacturing experience! HANES low prices! All
combine to make the greatest underwear values you've eyer seen.

HANES Gold Label Elastic-knit Light-weight Union Suits are excellent
for the changeable weather of autumn and spring—ideal winter garments
for men who work indoors. Luxurious in materials and finish. Low in price.

If you wear summer-weights. the year through, be sure to see-how
athletic union suits and shirts and shorts are made better by HANES.

HANES UNDERWEAR

| Births |

1909—Rev. and Mrs. J. C. Grier, of Charlotte,
announce the birth of a daughter, Julia
Cook, on January 13th.

1911—Mr. and Mrs. A. B. Taylor, of Winston-
Salem, announce the birth of a daugh-
ter, Mary Margaret, on November 25th.

1915—Mr. and Mrs. James C. Harper, of Le-
noir, announce the birth of a son, James
C., Jr., on August 27th.

1921—Dr. and Mrs. J. R. Boulware, Jr., of
Lakeland, Fla., -announce the birth of a
son, James Richmond, III, on October
2nd.

1923—Rev. and Mrs. Geo. W. Mauze, of Kin-
stéh, announce the birth of a son, Hamp-
ton Brown, on December 21st.

1924——-Mr. and Mrs. C. B. Washam, of Char-
lotte, announce the birth of a daughter,
Martha Frances, on Décember 15th.

1926-——Mr. and Mrs. A. Y. Bowie, of Birming-
ham, Ala., announce the birth of a daugh-
ter, Lillian Eugenia, on November 2nd.

1928—Mr. and Mrs. D. W. Johnson, of Fay-
etteville, announce the birth of.a son, ,,
David Wellington, Jr., on December 17th.

1930—Mr. and’ Mrs. W. Frank Gaffney, of Da-
vidson, announce the birth of a son, Wil-
liam Franklin, Jr.- on January 14th.

McMillan and son are recovering in Highsmith
Hospital, at Fayetteville.

Dr. Julian P. Price, ’22, of Florence, Sie Ge
has been re-elected secretary-treasurer of the
South Carolina Pediatric Society. The meeting
was recently held in Columbia, S. C.

Dr. Yates W. Faison, ’06, has recently at-
tended special clinics in Baltimore, Md.

Prof. S. H. Edmunds, '90, superintendent of
schools in Sumter County, S. C., was the prin-
cipal speaker at the recent Founders’ Day ex-
ercises at Queens-Chicora College in Charlotte.
Prof. Edmunds is recognized as one of the fore-
most educators of that state.

Dr. D. H. Nisbet, 13, of Charlotte, has been
made chairman of the medical staff at the Char-
lotte Sanatorium, and has also been appointed
chairman of the special physical department
committee of ‘the Y. M. C. A. in that city.
Dr. Nisbet is chairman of the general physi-
cians’ committee of the latter organization.

Rev. B. F. Wilson, D.D., ’84, of Harrison-
burg, Va., has been appointed by the Virginia
State Board of Education as instructor of re-
ligious education at the State Teachers Col-
lege located at Harrisonburg. Dr. Wilson re-
ceived his B.A. and M.A. degrees at Davidson,
his B.D. at Princeton, and Wofford bestowed
upon him the degree of doctor of divinity. He
has also studied at Johns Hopkins and in Ger-
many. Dr. Wilson was the organizer and first
president of Converse College, at Spartanburg,
South Carolina.

J. Archie Cannon, '04, of Concord, was fast
week a patient at the Charlotte Ear, Eye, Nose
and Throat Hospital, where he underwent a
minor operation.

(Continued on page 6)

For
Every Season
