ae THE DAVIDSONIAN. MAY 11, 1932

Changes in Regulations
Of Rhodes Scholarships —
Are Recently Completed
Notices From Rhodes Trustees State
Time Extension for Studies at
Oxford University
THIRD YEAR RESTRICTED

Choice of. University Regulated Ac-
. cording to Student’s Nationality

Certain changes have recently been introduced
by the Rhodes trustees in the regulations which

govern the tenure of the Rhodes scholarships,
and it is desired that these provisions be under- |
stood by all concerned. |

The, scholar is elected for two years in the |
first instance. If, therefore, he is unable to re- |
main in Oxford for a third year, it is not nec- |
essary (as it formerly was) for him to resign |
at the end of his second year, although he is
expected to give notice, not later than Trinity
Term, in his second year, of his intentioh to
cease residence after six terms. A scholar who |
resides only for two years is expected to take |
a degree within that time, and normally, there- |
fore, the foregoing consideration will apply only
to scholars who are qualified for Senior stand-

ing.

If the scholar wishes to continue his course |
for a third year at Oxford, which is expected |
to be the usual case, he will be allowed to do so |
Without further-formality, provided (1) that he |
contemplates, for his third year, a course of |
study which, in the opinion of his college and of |
the trustees, 1s appropriate and profitable, and
(2) that his work and conduct have been. sat- |
isfactory, Regard will be given to his perform-
ance in the schools, if he is examined for a de- |
gree at the end of his second year. No rigid |
rule is laid down as to the class which is ex-|
pected of a scholar in a final honor school, but |
each case will be judged on its merits.

During his second year, the scholar may ap-
ply either (1) to spend his third year at another
university, or (2) to postpone his third year at
Oxford until a later date. Before these alterna- |
tives are considered separately, it is necessary
to explain one principle which applies to both,
namely, that neither of these privileges is to be
considered as a matter of course. It is expected
that most scholars will spend three consecutive |
years at Oxford, and it will be only in excep-
tional circumstances and on a strong case be-
ing made that the trustees will give permission
for deviation from the ordinary course. They
will need to be convinced that it is eminently |
in the interests of the scholar’s immediate stud- |
ies and activities that he should spend a year |
at another university or should postpone the
completion of his Oxford course.

|
|
|
|
|

Third year at another university, The uni-
versity at which the scholar proposes to study
must be one which, in the opinion of the trus-
tees, is of reputable academic standing. No al- |
lowance can be made for traveling expenses.

Permission will be given: (a) For study at
any university in the scholar’s country of origin;
(b) to scholars from the United States, Can-
ada, Newfoundland, Bermuda, or Jamaica for
study at any university in North America; (c)
to scholars for study at any university in Aus-
tralia or vice versa; (d) to scholars from Malta |
for study in any European university except in |
England. Tenure of the scholarship will be sub-
ject to satisfactory reports from the university
at which the scholar is studying. Payments of
a stipend will be quarterly and can be made only
in sterling. While the trustees again do not de-
sire to lay down a rule as to the results of ex-
aminations, it is improbable that-'they would
give permission for study at another university
to a scholar who had not taken his degree at
Oxford and obtained at ‘least a second class (if
examined in a final honor school).

Postponed third year. The trustees cannot, at
the end of a scholar’s second year, give definite
permission for him to return at a later time for
a third year at Oxford. On application being
made in the sixth term of actual residence, they
will intimate to the scholar, after considering
the reasons which he has advanced, whether
they will be prepared to consider a future ap-
plication. In other words, they cannot bind them-
selves irrevocably to the future resumption of
the scholarship, but can only indicate whether
the scholar’s application, when,the time arrives
to make it, will be entertained.

At such a time the scholar wishes to return
to Oxford for the postponed year, he should
make application to the Oxford secretary, with
a full statement of his recent activities and his
proposed course of study, if possible, six months
and in no case less than three months, before
the date when he proposes to resume his resi-
dence. A definite decision will then be given by.
the trustees, who will be largely guided by the
view of the college authorities and the Oxford
secretary as to the value of the course he pro-
poses to pursue. It should not be assumed that
the scholar is entitled to return to Oxford until
this decision has been made known.

The period of postponement must vary in dif-
ferent cases, but the trustees desire it to be
known that they do not consider that the return
of the third year should be postponed too long.
The intention of the postponement is to enable
a scholar to complete his education under the

Get that kan weld hyylhmn /

What those sisters
can't do to a tune!

Wherever you buy
Chesterfields, you get
them just as fresh as
if you came by our
factory door

Evecy Moxey ad Vhuraday CUMUNYG al \0:30 E.p..

© 1932, Liccetr & Mysas ToBAcco Co,

COLUMBIA CO@d

f-lo-cowsl NETWORK

most favorable conditions and not to enable him
to spend a year in Oxford when approaching
middle age.

The postponed third year is available at no
other university than Oxford.

General. During the continuance of the schol-
arship, at whatever time or place, the general
conditions governing tenure and qualifications
remain. One of these conditions is that scholar-
ship is automatically vacated by marriage, and
this rule applies to the third year, at whatever
university it is spent, when it follows consecu-
tively upon the first two years. In the case of
a postponed third year, however, marriage will
not operate.as a disqualification. If, however,
the scholar marries when he has left Oxford
after completing two years of actual residence,
he must state this fact explicitly if and when he
makes application to return for a postponed
third year. Marriage will not. necessarily be re-
garded unfavorably by the trustees, but will be
considered together with all the other circum-
stances of the application. The trustees feel that
there are objections to a married scholar at-
tempting to reside in Oxford during the post-
poned third year with his wife and family unless
he has considerably larger funds at his disposal
than a Rhodes scholarship.

FINAL PLANS BEING MADE

(Continued from page 4)
now a resident of Fayetteville, is going to loan
the office during the period of commencement
a picture made of the student body of 1885.
Should other photographs be located of general
interest to the reuniting classes, these also will
be on display.

WILDKITTENS LOSE GAMES

(Continued from page 3)
safeties and six runs. Coble hurled well for the
losers but received poor support from his team-
mates, who erred four times.

RHE
Davidson ----------- 000 001 110-3 8 4
IOUS ees 201 010 20x—6 11 2

FIVE OLD RECORDS FALL

(Continued from page 3)
also set in the varsity shotput, javelin throw,
discus throw, and mile relay.

The North Carolina Freshmen also showed
prowess in the Freshman events, leading the
field with 75 1-8 points. The other Freshmen
scores were as follows: Duke, 57 1-2; North
Carolina State, 15; Davidson, 11 1-3, and Wake
Forest, 1.. Among the Freshmen new records
were set in the javelin throw, high jump, shot-
put, and broad jump, and the pole vault rec-
ord was reached. Two hurdle marks were shat-
tered, but were not counted, due to the windage

Childers of the Carolina Freshmen set new
records in the broad jump and high jump .and
tied the 100-yard dash mark to get individual
scoring honors with 15. His teammate, Haw-
thorne, who took the hurdles in record time,
came next with 10 points. Rex, of State, set
new marks in the shot and discus to also score
10 points.

The varsity summary is as follows:

440-yard dash: Won by Marland, Carclina;
second, Fulmer, Duke; third, Weil, Carolina;
fourth, Floyd, N. C. State. Time: 49.4 seconds.
(New record. Old, Ottinger of State, 50.4 sec-
onds, in 1930.)

100-yard dash: Won by Farmer, Carolina;
second, Fleagle, Davidson; third, Brownlee,
Duke; fourth, Hicks, Duke. Time: 9.8 seconds.

120-yard high hurdles:' Won by Atkinson,
Duke; second, McCallie, Davidson; third, Pratt,
Davidson; fourth, Watt, State. Time: 15.6 sec-
onds.

Broad jump: Won by Higby, Carolina; 2
feet, 9 3-4 inches; second, Fulmer, Duke, 22
feet, 7 1-2 inches; third, Wilkie, Guilford, 20
feet, 10 1-2 inches; fourth, Phipps, Carolina,
20 feet, 10 1-3 inches.

High jump: Won by Stafford, Carolina, 5
feet, 10 inches; second, tie by Rhyne of David-
son and Reid and Phipps of Carolina, 5 feet,
9 inches.

880-yard run: Won by Bradsher, Duke; sec-
ond, Nichols, Duke; third, Case, Carolina;
fourth, Watkins, Carolina. Time: 1 minute, 59.1
seconds.

Javelin: Won by LeGore, Carolina, 187 feet,
9 inches; second, Chandler, Carolina, 175 feet;
third, Johnson, Davidson, 160 feet; fourth,
Thompson,. Duke. (New record. Old record
DuPree of Wake Forest, 185 feet, 3 inches, in
1929, )

220-yard dash: Won by
second, Fleagle, Davidson; third, Higby, Caro-
lina; fourth, Hicks, Duke. 21
with wind at back to unofficially better state
record,

Farmer, Carolina;

Time: seconds

Two-mile rfin: Won by Lewis, Duke; sec-
ond, Hubbard, Duke; third, Brannon, David-
son; fourth, Sullivan, Carolina. Time: 10 min-
utes, 7.2 seconds.

220-yard low hurdles:
Duke; second, Slusser, Carolina; — third,
McCallie, Davidson; fourth, Little, Davidson.
Time: 23.3 seconds to unofficially better old
state record as wind was at back.

Won by Brownlee,

Discus: Won by Brown, Carolina, 138 feet,
1 1-2 inches; second, Mullis, Carolina, 13 feet,
2 5-8 inches; third, Heitz, State, 131 feet, 10 1-4
inches; fourth, Brewer, Duke, 121 feet, 10
inches. ;

Mile relay: Won by Duke (Hicks, Bradsher,
Brownlee, Fulmer); second, Carolina; third,
State; fourth, Davidson, Time: 3 minutes, 22.4
seconds. (New record. Old record, 3 minutes,
25.2 seconds held by Carolina and State.)

Pole vault: Won by Sharpe, Duke, 12 “feet,
2 inches; second, Riple, Duke, 11 feet, 10 inches ;
third, tied between Flinn, Davidson; « Roane,
Davidson, and Smith, North Carolina, 11 feet,
6 inches.

Mile run: Won by Jones, North Carolina;
second, McRae, North Carolina; third, Cirdle,
North Carolina; fourth, Bird, Duke. Time:
4 :33.3.

Shot put: Won by Mullis,. North Carolina,
45 feet, 1 1-2 inches; second, Gurneau, State,
42 feet, 1 inch; third, Hodges, North Carolina,
40 feet, 3 inches; fourth, Wagner, Davidson,
39 feet, 1 inch. (New record. Old record, 43
feet, 6 inches, by Spurlock, Lenoir-Rhyne.)

Thesone thet fust gits mad’s ’most ollers
wrong—Lowell.

Sig Eps, Kappa Sigs and
Pikas Are Frat Winners

Last Tuesday, May 3, the Sigma Alpha Ep-
silon baseball team received a very severe beat-
ing from the Sigma Phi Epsilon nine, being
downed by the score of 12 to 2. The losers
fought hard during the entire contest, but count-
less errors gave their opponents too many runs.
Wiley and A. Manson pitched for the S. A. E.’s
while -C. Howard hurled for the victors.

On Wednesdayy*May 4, the Pi K. A.’s defeat-
ed the Pi Kappa Phi’s in the last game of the
first round of the tournament. The game, which
ended with the score of 28 to 8, was featured
by several home runs and a number of three-
baggers. In the second inning the Pi K. A.’s ran
in nine, which piled up too big a score for their
opponents to overcome. Kirkland starred on the
mound, for the winners while Stanley pitched
nice ball for the vanquished.

The following day the Betas met the Kappa
Sigmas in the first game of the second round,
the Kappa Sigs winning by the close score of
5 to 2. The contest started very slowly as each
team was playing hard ball. The end of the fifth
inning found the winners leading by only one
point, but in the final bracket they ran in two
scorers. Pitching for the Betas was Brewer and
for the Kappa Sigs was’ Holland.

This week the S. P. E.’s will meet the Phi
Gams in the second and last game of the sec-
ond round, due to the fact that the Pi K. A.’s
drew a bye to the semi-finals,

STATE COLLEGE BASEBALL

(Continued from page 3)
Score by innings:
State
Davidson
Summary—-Two-base hit: McQuage. Sacri-
fices: Duke, McQuage. Stolen bases: Duke,
Blanton, Morrison, Bernhardt. Double play:
Morrison to Mills to Blanton. Left on bases:
State 6, Davidson 7. Bases on balls: off Pearce,
5; Lanning 3. Struck out: By Lanning, 3; by
Pearce, 6. Wild pitch: Lanning. Passed ball:
Whitley. Umpires: Hannah and Ballard. Time
of game: 2:12.

