THE

DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 2, 1932

The Bookshelf

Davidson 10 Years Ago

Night Flight, by Antoine De St. Exupery.

The Century Company. 1932.

“Night Flight” is a modern book. It is
modern because it is short and in the novel-
ette form, and that is becoming very pop-
ular; it is modern because it portrays air
mail service, a recent development, and the
locale is modern South America. Yet its
theme, that of duty, is old.

The story is simple; the Patagonia plane
with pilot and wireless operator are lost in
a severe storm, while at the base of opera-
tions in Buenos Aires wait anxiously the
pilot’s wife and the crew. The plane crashes,
but the air mail service continues. The cen-
tral character is not the tragic pilot nor his
young wife. It is Riviere, who is responsible
for the entire service.. Always the mail
weighs upon his mind, and he postpones for
his declining years everything that makes
life kind to men. To him orders are like
the rites of a religion and his men are mere
lumps to be kneaded into moulds of discip-
line. And so, thanks to Riviere, the service
of mails was paramount over twenty thou-
sand miles of land and sea. He once con-
fesses to an assistant, “Love the men under
your orders, but do not let them know it.”
When the pilot’s wife grieves for his re-
turn, Riviere “hears her timid voice as—an
enemy—for action and individual happiness
have no truck with each other-—they..are
eternally at war.”

The book is written by an experienced
aviator and thus has an. authentic atmos-
phere that is realistic and moving. The style
is effective, making use of short phrases
and clauses, and the translator has kept the
conciseness of the original. There are many
beautiful passages, and the airship has never
received such poetic treatment. “In a flash,
the veryinstant he had risen clear, the pilot
found a peace that passed his understand-
ing. Not a ripple tilted the plane but, like
a ship that has crossed the bar, it moved
across-a-tranquil anchorage. In an unknown
and secret corner of the sky it floated, as
in a harbor of the Happy Isles. Below him
still the storm was fashioning another world,
thridded with squalls and cloudbursts and
lightnings, but turning to the stars a face
of crystal snow.” . “Amid the far-flung
treasure of the stars he roved, in a world
where no life was, no faintest breath of life,
save his and his companion’s. Like plunder-
ers of fabled cities they seemed, immured
in treasure-vaults whence there-is no escape.
Amongst these frozen jewels they were wan-
dering, rich beyond all dreams, but doomed.”

The men of the airport are determined that
the lead that airships gain by day on ships
and railways shall not be lost each night.
Regardless of disaster, the European mail
must leave on time. So Riviere: reflects:
“Tonight’S defeat conveyed perhaps’a les-
son which would speed the coming of final
victory. The work in progress was all that
mattered.”

—E. A. HANCOCK.

Davidson 5 Years Ago-

NOVEMBER 3, 1927

After many efforts the lair of the Wildcat
mascot just east of the gymnasium has been

(From Davidsonian, Nov. 2, 1922)

The evangelistic service Wednesday night
in Shearer Hall is to be conducted by Dr.
Walter L. Lingle.

Doctor Lingle is a graduate-of—Davidson
College and is one of her most distinguished
alumni. He is one of the greatest preachers
in the Southern Presbyterian Church and is
at present an instructor at the Union Theo-
logical Seminary at Richmond, Va. He is
loved by all that know hin and itis a cer-
tainty that he will leave many new friends
at Davidson: ; .

After November 11, the indoor rifle range
will be open to all Freshmen taking R. O.
T. C. The range is one of the best equipped
in the South and all new men should avail
themselves of, this privilege.

Last year the Freshmen made an unusu-
ally fine record and it is considered doubtful
by the officers in command that’ this year’s
class will equal it.

Rifle meets will be arranged with Georgia
Tech, Mississippi A. & M., and other South-
ern schools.

Ministerial Students
Hear Interesting Talk

John Richards Speaks on “Calling to

the Minis

The regular meeting of the Ministerial
Band was held last Friday night with A. L.
Thompson presiding. The meeting was
opened by a short devotional service con-
sisting of the reading of the Fifteenth Psalm
and sentence prayers by Robert Forbis and
David Blue.

A Short business session followed, at which
it was decided to have the pictures of the
members in the Annual. A suggestion was
also accepted to the effect that the mem-
ber of the society should be given parts in
the program, whereas heretofore outside
speakers have been featured.

The main part of the program was a talk
by John Richards on “Calling to the Min-
istry.” He emphasized the fact that there
are two reasons for men entering the min-
istry. The first was the selfish motive. He
declared that these men think that the min-
istry is an easy profession in which there
are rich rewards. On the other hand the
man propelled by the unselfish motive real-
izes that the ministry is a profession of sac-

rifice and that one entering it must as far
as possible emulate Christ.

Following the talk, the time for the next
meeting was announced as November 11, at
which time a member of the faculty will
be asked to discuss the subject of “The Min-
ister’s Family Life.”

Intercollegiate Press

London, Eng.—(IP)—Two American edu-
cators have received appointments to: pro-
fessorships in British universities in the last
few ‘days.

Dr. George H. C. MacGregor of the Hart-

ford (Conn.) Seminary Foundation, has been
appointed Regius Proféssor of Biblical Cri-
ticism at the University of Glasgow, from
which he received the degree of doctor of
letters in 1929.

The University College of Wales has ap-
pointed Dr. Jerome D. Greene of New York,
chairman of the Council of Pacific Relations
as Wilson Professor of International Politics.

High Class Work at Economical Prices

. MARTIN BROS.
SHOE SHOP

Announcing
A New, Modern, Up-to-Date Drug Store
for a

Davidson Students, to be Known as

COLLEGE PHARMACY
The Service Drug Store

Creators of Reasonable Drug Prices in Davidson

9

rehabitated. Two hale and hearty wildcats
have been procured. for Davidson by Spike
McGee. These two 'cats, Tom and Min, are
worthy successors to “Faithful Felix” who
died the past summer.

Spike has: tried since the beginning of
school to locate a healthy wildcat and after
several disappointments he has finally suc-
ceeded.

“Min,” whose native haunts were in West-
ern North Carolina, was recently purchased
by the student body for thirty-five dollars.
“Tom” is a gift from Mr. Hansell Watt.
“Tom” is a native of Florida and is one of
the largest and handsomest ’cats the Wild-
cats have ever possessed. He tips the scales
at forty-five pounds in comparison to
“Min’s” weight of thirty pounds. They will
be under the care of “Doc” Charlie.

As a prelude to the Home-Coming Day
celebrations here Saturday, the alumni of-
fice, under the auspices of Dr. J. P. Mathe-
son, president of the General Alumni Coun-
cil, Thursday evening staged a special radio
program, which was broadcast to listeners
all over the southeast from the studio of
WBT in Charlotte. By means of the_radio,
a personal invitation was extended to Da-
vidson alumni througtout the country, urg-
ing them to return to the college for Satur-
day’s game and festival.

Musical numbers were rendered by the
Davidsonian Quartette, the jazz orchestra,
and Ed Wilson, soloist of the Glee Club.

Telegrams from all sections of the south-
east indicated that a large number of Da-
vidson alumni and friends had tuned in for
the program and enjoyed it immensely.

“Let’s say you’re painting clouds.
You’ve got your primary colors here
on the palette. But you haven't the
clouds until you blend certain colors
into the special tone you want.

“This is very much what happens
in making a good cigarette. And I
gather that what Chesterfield means
by Cross-Blending is what an artist
does with colors. Their Domestic
and Turkish tobaccos — many varie-
ties of each—are the primary colors.

Vhat ts a
TOSS Blending

might explain it

They blend and cross-
tobaccos until they get

Chesterfield flaver,—--

tone they want—in other words, the

blend these
the special

of every other.

a better kind. That’s
ing!”

“And just as each color you use
acts on the others to change and
enrich them, so each Chesterfield to-
bacco partakes of the fine qualities
"You ‘weld’ different kinds to get
Cross-Blend-

nw

thats w. >

=} Chesterfield

y  Osuss Blonded = that av yire MILDER

they TASTE BETTER
