THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 7, 1932

“The Dabidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLARS OF 1915

TES: 10 ts per copy; $2.00 the Col-
Se ver titered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina. a

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
ans ‘Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

EDWARD-0.-GUERRANT == thet permed
A. M. MANSON ag

EDITORIAL STAFF

Managing Editor
k E SCHENCK Managing Editor
W. M. THOMPSON Managing Editor
oe WILLIAMS Managing Editor
DI CASALI Athletic Editor
E. LAKE. Exc! Editor
’ W. WHITE Feature Editor
S. GAMBLE-......-- Feature Editor
. T, GOODYKOONTZ..........------------- Contributing Editor
KE. A. HANCO! eview Editor
D. D. McBRYDE Editor
R. L. McCALLIE A te Editor
C. F. MYERS A te Editor
B. B, SUGG-..... A Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
Ww. T. MOE RUE Assistant Busi Manag
A. H. MANSON 3 A t B M
ALVIN. BAYER, JR licitor
H. B. DANIEL teed
dM Bauatas i
W. Pin SPRUNT : licitor
i A, C. WADSWORTH licitor
~ E. WHITE

REPORTERS’ CLUB

President
i & GAMBLE Vice-President
LEWIS GREGG. etary-Treasurer
. L. McCLINTOCK
RN ALDERMAN. Ae eI WINEN
G, E, BAILY _ E. F. McPHAIL
D. B. BAILEY W. C. NEILL
B. C. BARNES W._L. NORTHEN
. E. BOWERS C. E. NORVELL
}. E. BOYD E. L. POWELL
. H. COVINGTON S. P. PRESTON
. §. K. EATON P. M. ROGERS
. B. FICKLIN B. L. ROSE
& L. GULLETTE T. H. SUTTON
ACK_HELLINGER N. W. WALLACE
¥ Cc. HEN K. D. WEEKS
if A. HUNTER W. R. WARD
. E. LORRAINE W._T. THOMPSON
T. F. WOOD +f W. WHITE
W..F. MULLISS . PRATT-THOMAS

DECEMBER 7, 1932

’

“Tt is not what a poet takes, but what he makes
out of what he has taken, that shows what native
force'is in him.”

—James Russell Lowell On Spenser.
pa

THOUGHTS IN PASSING

South Carolina deserves a great deal of praise for
tieing Auburn, 20 to 20. In reality, Auburn is the
superior team, but the Gamecocks battered their way
in a thrilling comeback to tie the Plainsmen, hitherto
undefeated or untied.

D.

South Carolina’s victory threw the Southern Con-
ference race in a muddle. Whether Tennessee is rec-
ognized as the leading Southern Conference team or
not, we feel that she should be. Tennessee came
through a stiff schedule with one tie only to mar her
record. That tie with Vandy,<will always be ques-
tioned in the minds of those who saw Feathers of
Tennessee dash to a totichdown only to be called
back for stepping outside.

Southern California in the West, Notre Dame in the
Mid-West, Pitt in the East, and Tennessee in the
South are the four leading teams in the country, in
our opinion.

D.
, The Southern California-Notre Dame game this
Saturday in Los Angeles promises to be one of the
best of the entire season, and one of the most inter-
esting. Here two of the nation’s best teams will
clash.
D
The selection of Pitt as the opponent of Southern
California in the annual Rose Bowl tournament came
as a surprise to many, but Pitt, undefeated, is un-
doubtedly the best team in the East and should offer
worthy opposition to the Trojans on New Year's
Day.
D.
Davidson wishes to extend its heartiest congratula-
' tions to Queens-Chicora College as the result of their
admission into the Southern Association of Colleges
and S dary School

eLearn ech Ty

This has been a year of many upsets in football.
Superior teams were defeated or tied by inferior
teams more often than ever before. Somehow we
cannot help but feel a little sorry to see a great team’s
record marred by an inferior team, but that is what
makes football the greatest game of all—opportunity
for a winning spirit to win.

Dp ———

The Davidson Student Body will await with a great
deal of interest the action of the Southern Confer-
ence on her application for admission to that body.
Admission to this body will help Davidson, her stu-
dent body, and team. We trust that we will have the
good fortune to be admitted into the Southern Con-
ference for it will mean much to us.

D.

The craze of selecting All-American teams is again
abroad in the land. We trust the South with its
great backs and good linesmen will be duly recog-
nized.

It looks like the South has the greatest array of
backs in the country, Robert Zimmerman, Hitchcock,
Feathen, and Cain, are a quintet that is hard to beat.

————_D—_—__

The student body ought to back basketball with
more of the spirit with which they get behind foot-
ball. Basketball season will soon be with ts. May
we have a successful basketball season.

=

OPEN FORUM

I SAW

WORLD SPECTATOR |

THE DEBT NOTES

The official notes of England and France
advocating postponement of the December
payments of War Debts give us the outlook
and attitude of the debtor nations on this prob-
lem.

Fhe-English note-expresses the concensus-of
opinion of the other nations. England has
taken the lead in the move for post-ponement
because her debt is by far the largest (95 bil-
lion dollars). In the notes the powers threat-
en our trade relations. This is the most ef-
fective weapon which they possess and also
the most valid argument for postponement and
revision. For is it a wise policy to undermine
the financial stability of our largest custom-
ers? England definitely declares that it will
be impossible to buy as much from the United
States as formerly if the December installment
is paid.

Furthermore, England points out the incon-
sistency of,our erecting high tariff walls and
at the same time demanding that our debtors
pay their debts over these” walls: In order to
pay, the debtor nations must obtain a market
for their goods. The United States by high
tariffs has closed her own market. Another
argument set forth in Britain’s note is the
probable effect which payment will have upon
the pound sterling and thus upon all prices,
for more than half of the world’s business is
transacted in terms of the pound sterling.
Some English economists even think that the
pound sterling will succeed gold as the world’s
monetary basis. This might conceivably hap-
pen if the United States and France: gained

control over the entire supply. At. present -

these two nations have a large part of it.

Despite these logical arguments set forth in
great detail, it is extremely doubtful if the
notes will influence Congress in its attitude
toward the matter, and it is Congress, in the
last analysis, which has the power of decision.
Congress conceives its first duty to be the bal-
ancing of the national budget. If the debts
were postponed, a, sizable part of the appro-
priations would be reduced. It is fairly cer-
tain, then, that the December payments will
not be deferred. As to revision, both Presi-
dent Hoover and Governor Roosevelt have ex-
pressed themselves as favoring it, through dif-
ferent channels; Mr, Hoover wishing imme-
diate action on the question. We have, there-
fore, reason to hope that the solution will be
forthcoming in the near future.

*

THE CENTENNIAL CLASS

(Continued from page 1)

in thisdirection and work for its success.

This fall we have heard some comment by
various members of the student body to the
effect that the present student body could aid
in this endeavor by attempting to bring more
students here next year. Such a campaign for
students was carried on very successfully in
1919, as was stated before, and we believe that
interest: can be stimulated at the present time
for the carrying on of such an endeavor.

It is our opinion that the Centennial Cele-
bration would be materially’ benefitted if a
class of one hundred and fifty seniors were
graduated in 1937, No-class of that size has
ever graduated from Davidson College, and
in order to achieve such a result, we would
have to obtain between two hundred and fifty
and three hundred freshmen next fall. The
student -body at Davidson has always been
above the average, and to gain mere numbers
by lowering the quality of students would be
detrimental rather than beneficial. The only
way this could be sticcessful would be to in-
duce students of the highest type to come
here. We do not feel-that.we should lower
the standards in any respect, but undoubtedly
there are three hundred students of superior
quality in the southeastern part of the United
States who would come to Davidson, if the

proper efforts were exerted to bring them
here.

Since we had over two hundred new students
this year, a goal of three hundred is: certainly not
out of reason. It would undéubtedly mean a
greater Davidson, and certainly would be an
eminently worthy endeavor for the student
body this year to.enter upon. No very definite
plans as to how this should be carried out have
been formulated as yet, but it could be aided
by us as‘members of the student body, if we
would approach high school seniors who would
be a credit to Davidson, and influence them to
enter college here.

It is our earnest desire that such a plan as
this can be completed successfully, and we be-

lieve that there would be no doubt concern-

ing its ultimate result, if the student body
would support it wholeheartedly. This is cer-
tainly one way in which Davidson spirit in its
highest phase can be manifested.

We shall gladly accept and print any articles
written by members of the student body on
this subject, and we trust some valuable sug-
gestions as to how this can be carried out will
be forthcoming in the near future.

‘know, or don’t you?

They say that Cupid strikes :
The match that sets the world aglow
But where does Cupid strike the match?
That’s what I’d like to know.

—Theresa Crowd.

... Joe Wadsworth telling this story. In case you
havent heard or did you know that he and Dick
Whitfield spent a Satdee night in a car? They missed
their ride back fromgCharlotte and asked the negro
watchman at the Pdplar Apts. if they could sleep in
one of the cars parked out front. He urged, “Pick
out de’ bes’ one and crawl in.” They selected a Lin-
coln and thus passed the night. I hear the next a. m.
Dick’s knees were so stiff he could hardly move. Yop.

. or rather heard the play in Charlotte Tuesday
night was pretty melodramatic. It was like this, you
In the second act the skulking
villain. descended upon the farm and foreclosed the
mortgage on pore Uncle Zeke’s radio. They say there
were tears in the eyes of all who saw this touching
scene.

... our “Y” secretary, Sam Wiley, buying a paddle
ball at White’s Thursday afternoon. He was get-
ting it for the big ping pong tournament. This is
always ’a big moment in the lives of the contestants
and as the tourney progresses excitement is at a high
pitch. You simply must take it in if you crave that
Park Avenue chic!

. and overheard a discussion between Davidson’s

prize orator, Skip Brown, and our newest playboy,
Bill Brewer, Friday night. Skip asked Bill if he had
been exercising enough lately. ~Bill replied in the
affirmative. “He had just come from the Charlotte
Country Club whére he had been swinging dumb
belles around all evening. ” What we'd like to know
is how he got in the Country Club It wasn’t so easy
the night we tried it!

... The S. A. E.’s playing “Murderer” at their house
the other eve’g. This is the last word in entertain-
ment and no ‘casualties were reported. Those en-

\gaged in this popular indoor sport were Bill Reid,

Jack Plunkett, Bill Johnson, Lamont Brown, Kenneth
Weeks, and Mark Senter. They seemed to be hav-
ing a jolly time!

. a persistent rumor circulating that a Davidson
student was seen at a Charlotte florist’s ordering
gardenias lately. Dame Gossip has it that he gave
the girl’s address and charged the flowers to him-
self. The florist said, “And your name?” He an-
swered, “Never mind, shell know who it is.” Oh,
sure!

. manly little: Bob Wood, son of Prof. Wood, get
away for a touchdown while playing Cornelis of an
afternoon last week. This Davidson team has also
had a good season and the players should be~con-
gratulated on their successful year. Besides winning
games, they’ve had barrels of fun.

. .. those who have lately been into the Cripples
Club for various and sundry reasons are: Charlie
Rives, Gus Maynard, Chink Thompson, and .Avery
Patton.

» everybody in the library Friday night run out,
leaving books and everything, to attend the fire. The
co-eds present did themselves proud and were the
first to arrive at the scene of action. Girls are like
that!

TIP POFF.

Collegiate Ramblings
A. M. MANSON

J. E. LAKE
Vv. M. I.

There is being held a nation-wide popularity con-
test to decide the most popular radio entertainers,
the. following were. the temporary leaders in order
named; Ben Bernie, George Olsen, Guy Lombardo,
Rudy Vallee, Paul Whiteman, and Walter Damrosch
were the victors for the orchestra leaders. Rudy
Vallee was the most popular of the men singers with
Lawrence Tibbett, Arthur Tracy, and Bing Crosby
following-.in-order-named.— Jessica Dragonette, Kate
Smith, Ruth Etting, Julia Sanderson, and: Ethel
Shutta were the topnotchers among the women sing-
ers, Rubinoff, Little Jack Little, and Ann Leaf lead
the instrumentalists. First place among the announc-
ers was won by Graham McNamee, Jimmy Walling-
ton, Milton Cross, Ted Husing, and Bill Hays fol-
lowing close behind. Ed Wynn, the perfect fool, is
leading the comedians with Jack Benny, Eddie Cantor,
Jack Pearl and Burns and Alfen-ctose-behind:

Georgia Tech

In 1917 Davidson made the best record against the
great Georgia Tech team by holding them to a 32-10
schre. “The fighting team from Davidson, led by
the first “Buck” Flowers, came to the Flats and fought
like mad for the closest game on Tech’s schedule,
Davidson was defeated, 32 to 10. The other scores
for Tech of that year were very large in favor of
Tech: Tech 33, Wake Forest 0; Tech (second team)

_ 25, Furman 0; Tech 41, University of Pennsylvania 0;

Tech 63, Washington and Lee 0; Georgia Tech 83,
Vanderbilt 0; Tech 48, Tulane 0; Tech 98, Carlisle
Indians 0; Tech 68, Auburn 7. The Technique called
that team the “world’s most powerful eleven.”

Until recently the Soviet government in Russia has
not permitted Russians to emigrate. No passport
vises were given Russian citizens to leave Russia ex-
cept under rare conditions. Now the rule has been
changed, and Russians may emigrate if they follow
the course laid down by the Soviet. Tlrey are re-
quired to pay to the government a sum, varying from
$250-t0 $500, the payment to be in foreign currency.
The workers must pay about $250 while all others
must pay twice that much. The hardest part of the
rule is that which requires payment in foreign cur- >
rency. For the ordinary Russian who has no friends
or no foreign bank account, this is almost impossible,
Thus the Soviet, with an outward show of liberalism,
is almost as strict about emigration as before.

The new Italian liner, Conte di Savoia, on its mai-
den voyage to New York, has reached Gibraltar with
satisfaction to all except several American engineers
aboard. For them the sea has been entirely too calm ©
and thus they have not been able to observe the
effect of huge gyroscopes which were installed in the
liner to increase the stability in rough sea. The
Mediterranean Sea has been very quiet, so the stabil-
izing machinery has been unnecessary. The gyro-
scopes have been kept running in order to get them
“broken in,” but have not been geared to the hull,
The engineers are very hopeful about a report of
rough weather west of Gibraltar. It only.is a ques-
tion of time before the experts will know if the
gyroscopes are efficient in producing stability.

A device to determine the comfort of the air in a
room has recently been patented in England. It not
only is affected by the temperature of the air, but
it is affected by drafts, so that the relative comfort
of the room is found. It has one limitation in that
it does not determine the relative humidity of the
air, a very important factor in the comfort of a room.
The instrument is a metal tube about two feet high
and eight inches across. Inside is an electric light and
a thermal regulator which keeps the outside of the
tube at a slightly higher temperature than the room.
The electricity used is an indicator of the amount
of heat that is given off, and so the comfort of the
room may be determined. Drafts cause more cur-
rent to be used, and thus are accounted for, whereas
thermometers are not affected by drafts.

The London Times, conservative English paper, has
broken away from two traditions within the last two
months, In October it changed the style of type of
its mast head which had been in use since 1788. The
second change was a breaking of a tradition of 147
years’ standing. Up until December 2, the Times had
never printed a two-column headline, even during all
the important crises of the World War. On Decem-
ber 2 the Times put a two-column head over the
British note to the United States on the subject of
war debts. This shows how the British feel on the
question and shows the importance of the question
to the British and, for that matter, to the world.

Hindenburg, the old and esteemed President of
Germany, was about to change from his bulldog pow-
er, and was on the verge of resigning as President
of Germany. This low, depressed feeling was largely
due to the inability of the German political parties to
agree upon a Chancellor. Hindenburg, who is over
eighty years old, is a steadying force in Germany, and
his resignation would cause great political changes in
the country. It is thought by many that should Hin-
denburg resign, a vice-regency would be set up, with
a Hohenzollern as vice-regent. Up to the present,
though, the old man has held his place as President.

Dr. Albert Einstein, famous scientist who is plan-
ning to come to America to conduct a scientific school
in Princeton, N. J., may’ be-refused admission to the
United States if the petition of the Woman Patriotic
Corporation to the State Department is carried
through. The petition, sent in by Mrs. Randolph
Frothingham of Brookline, Mass., asked that Dr.
Einstein be refused a passport to America because he
was a member of “several Communist organizations
under Moscow management.” ’ The State Department
wired the accusation to the American consuls in Eu-
rope. It is left up to them to decide whether Ein-
stein will be allowed to come to New Jersey. It is
thought that this idea about’Einstein’s being a Com-
munist originated through his strong support of paci-
fism and interest itp anti-war congresses at which
Communism was well represented. The Berlin Com-
munist headquarters deny that he is a member of
the Communist party. This should be proof enough
that the great scientist is no Communist, for were he
a “Red,” it would be natural for the Communist party
to let his affiliation be known. After all, even if he
were a Communist, his political attitude would be
submerged by his mathematical work and the United
States would derive much more benefit than harm.

Consider the lowly oyster. He is now being cared
for and incubated just like poultry is sheltered in
early life. The “oyster incubator” is not a very elab-
orate affair, with trays [and a kerosene heater, nor
does it require careful watching. It is only a card-
board tube covered with cement and placed upon the
ocean floor so that the infant oyster may attach him-
self to a firm support. After reaching a mature
state, the oyster is transplanted and left to grow
independently. Many of the young oysters are not
allowed to mature, but are ground up and made into
poultry feed or the lime is extracted from their shells.
The incubation of oysters by this method is used by
the_ United_ States_ Fisheries_ Biological. Station. at
Beaufort, North Carolina.

.
