(
\

) i
\\ THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 26, 1932

|

The Babvidsonian

. Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

ON RATES: 10 cent; r 3 $2.00 the Col-
iegiste Year. Entered as second. c ast matter at the Poss
‘ice, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

EDWARD _O. GUERRANT Editor-in-Chief
A. M. MANSON. Business Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
L. W. CLARDY Managing Editor
A, F. SCHENCK... Managing Editor
W. M. THOMPSON. Managing Editor

JACK WILLIAMS. ana ng Edi
DI CASALI. Athletic Editor
. E. LAKE xch Editor
. W. WHI Feature Edit
S. GAMBLE Feature Editor
}: T. DY KOONTZ Contrit Editor
. A. HANCOCK Review Editor
D. D. McBRYDE. A Editor
R. L. McCALLIE. A Editor
Cc. F. MYERS. A te Editor
B. B. SUGG A Editor
i BUSINESS STAFF
W. T. JOHNSON Assistant Business M:
A. H. MANSON Assi Busi Manag
ALVIN_ BAYER, JR icitor
H. B. DANIEL olicitor
J, M. DOUGLAS. icitor
G. L. GREEN.- olicitor
W._P._ SPRUNT. olicitor
. R. TAYLOR ........ olici
. A. C. WADSWORTH. licitor
. E. WHITE olicitor
REPORTERS’ CLUB
i: E. LAKE -----President
. S. GAMBLE Vice-President
LEWIS GREGG. Secretary-Treasurer
M. W. ALDERMAN . L.. McCLIN’
R. H. ALDERMAN ty L._McILWINEN
G. E. BAILY E, F. McPHAIL
D. B. BAILEY W. C. NEILL
B. C. BARNES W._L. NORTHEN
. E. BOWERS C, E. NORVELL
. E. BOYD E. L LL
. H. COVINGTON S. P, PRESTON
S. K. EATON P. M. ROGERS
J. B. FICKLIN B, L, ROSE
G. L. GULLE' T. H, SUTTON
JACK HELLINGER N. W. WALLACE $
. C. HENRY < K, D. WEEKS
k A. HUNTER W. R. WARD
. E. LORRAINE W._T. THOMPSON
T. F. WOOD k W. WHITE
W. F. MULLISS . PRATT-THOMAS

OCTOBER 26, 1932

An active brain is of little use unless it makes
its owner active. 7
D.

THOUGHTS IN PASSING

Monk Younger and Tex Tilson continued their good
work this past Saturday at V. P. I., as their boys de-
feated the University of Kentucky, 7-0. This places
V. P. I. high in the Southern Conference race.

Dp

With the first reports out we see many worried _

faces, and some happy ones, too. We wish to urge
the Freshmen to study a little harder and advise
them not to be discouraged.

——-

Although that. was a hard game to lose last Sat-
urday, we must admit that the Citadel eleven put up
an excellent fight and deserved all of the points which
they received. Naturally we feel that Davidson should
have made more than one touchdown.

SSSR , omemenuten

The Southern Conference ‘race has narrowed down
to Tennessee, Auburn, and V. P. I. Auburn has an
easier schedule than the Vols, who still must play
Vanderbilt and Kentucky, and V. P. I. must defeat
Alabama along with some other smaller schools be-
fore they can claim the title.

D.

The chances are that a Southern Conference team

will again participate in the classic Rose Bow! tourna-

ment as Pitt and other luminaries of the East and
Mid-West have been virtually, eliminated. However,

. Michigan still has a chance. :
: ——D.
The Wildcats will meet Clemson next Saturday on
Richardson Field and from all reports the Tigers
have a very strong team.. Outside of ‘Duke they are
without a doubt the strongest team we will have
played by that time.
—_—_D
In a straw vote taken recently at Columbia Uni-
versity, Norman Thomas, who is running for the
Presidency on the Socialist ticket, won the election.
He is a very able man and undoubtedly will poll
many votes this November.
EST , Sar ee
From the play-by-play report received here last
Saturday, it sounded like the game was between
Mackorell and Jennings. Both of these men must
have played an excellent game. omens 0
“The Big Broadcast” lived up to all expectations
and proved to be the most popular show that has
come to Davidson this fall.
D————_—
ROANOKE ISLAND COLONY

An incident in history which is-not generally
known, and which should be of great interest
to North Carolinians, is that the first perma-
nent settlement of English people was not at
Jamestown in 1607 or at Plymouth in 1620, but
on Roanoke Island in the northeastern part
of North Carolina. A settlement was made
there in 1584 during the reign of Queen Eliza-
beth under the auspices of Sir Walter Ra-

leigh. A place was selected for a village in
this year and in the following year Raleigh
—fitted-out another expedition to transport 108
~ colonists to this new land. Grenville, the lead-
__ er of. the expedition, returned to England, and

igh-was -reduced_to starvation,
inhabitants sailed for England in_1586._

ee Me (ollawing year ‘other settlers were sent

i

to Roanoke Island under the direction of Sir
Walter Raleigh with John White as governor.
Later in that year John White returned to
England for more. supplies.
war with Spain at that time White didnot

return till 1590, but when he returned he could

not find a single member of the colony nor any
traces of them anywhere. Their fate has re-
mained a mystery since that time. Many think
that they.intermarried with the Indians in that
part of the state, but no absolutely conclusive
facts have as yet been brought forth to sub-
stantiate this claim.

In 1934 the Roanoke Island Historical Asso-
ciation is planning to stage a celebration of
the three hundred and fiftieth anniversary of
the founding of this colony. This association
will attempt to recreate the Roanoke Island
of 1584 and to re-enact the drama which was
first staged there. By this means these rather
obscure but very important facts historicall¥
will be given greater publicity. This will tend
to increase the interest around a very impor-
tant stage of North Carolina history which
has hitherto been generally overlooked.

The Roanoke Island Historical Association
is appealing to the people of North Carolina
to support this undertaking with their money
and also with their interest. They are at-
tempting to build up interest-in-an-event- which
is very important in American and also in
North Carolina history, and in an event which
they hope. will raise this state to its rightful
place along with other middle eastern and
northeastern states historically.

HONORARY FRATERNITIES

On the Davidson campus at the present time
there are over: fifteen honorary fraternities
of various kinds, established to recognize lead-
ership, scholarship, and to bring together men
with kindred interests. These fraternities
have, or should have, in their constitutions
something to the effect that they are exist-
ing for the purpose of contributing something
to the Davidson campus or to some group on
the campus. Unless each one of these groups
is serving some definite purpose, their contin-
ued existence is not warranted.

Of the large number on this campus, very
few are making any sustained effort to con-
tribute any good to the student body. Of
course this is not true of all these, because
there are a few notable exceptions. These
few exceptions truly live up to the name of
an honorary fraternity. Besides bestowing
honor on the members, they are attempting

-to-build-up_interest—in-.some—specific—line—of—|—

endeavor, It is only these which deserve the
right to exist. ‘The rest exist in name only,
and merely furnish various members of the
Junior and Senior classes material to list un-
der their names in the annual...

At Emory University’ last year one of the
honorary fraternities, which should have been
a leading one, realized that it was of no’ben-

efit to the university and voluntarily relin- .

quished its charter. This may seem to be a
rather hard procedure, but certainly it would
lend more prestige to honorary fraternities in
general and to the ones which are really active,
if the inactive ones would realize their condi-
tion and vote themselves out of existence. The
alternative would be to live up to the provi-
sions set down in their constitutions, This
would be an ideal condition, because they were
all organized for a worthy purpose. Certainly
they should take one of these alternatives or
the other, because the existence of some or-
ganizations on this campus is detrimental to
the existence of others.

Collegiate Ramblings *
J, E. Lake

Those schools which have either had their straw
vote on the coming election or will have it in the
near future are as follows: Roanoke, which picked
Roosevelt; Mary Baldwin, to have a straw vote later;
Georgia Tech, which also picked Governor Roosevelt;
State, whose Sophomore class was strongly in favor

of Téddy’s cousin and who booed the votes for Hoo- -

ver; Tulan®, to have one tater, and North Carolina;
which is to have one later.

There have been two hundred and sixteen men
pledged by the fraternities at the University of North
Carolina; ninety-four at State; two hundred and
thirty-one at Duke, the sororities got one hundred
and twenty-one girls; amd one hundred and twenty-
four at the University of South Carolina.

Washington and Lee
The Washington and Lee Fancy Dress will be
held from January 27-29. There will be the Junior
Prom on the eyening of the 27th, two fraternity
dances on the morning and afternoon of the 28th;
Fancy Dress Ball on the evening of the 28th, and
a tea dance on the afternoon of the 29th. The com-
mittee for these dances are debating on which or-
chestra to have. They are trying to decide between
Hal Kemp, Bernie Cummins, Herbie Kay, Ted
Weems and Isham Jones,.-Any one of these is the

cat's_pajamas, just pick any of them.

Furman y
—In—a—quotation_from The Hornet we learn—that
P. C., a Presbyterian school of South Carolina, is

4 WORLD SPECTATOR

Because of the’

I SAW

In view of the fact that the Davidsonian is having
a straw balloting on the coming Presidential election,
it would be interesting to compare the ballotingé at
other colleges and universities. Of course the results
of a poll in any school will depend upon its location
and the degree of its liberalism. Harvard went de-
cidedly Republican, with the result that Hoover re-
ceived 1,741 votes, Roosevelt received 620, and Thomas
was a close third with 484. This is the biggest Re-
publican majority that Harvard has ever shown in the
history of its pollings. In the Law School, the Dem-
ocratic and Republican votes were about the same,
and in the Engineering School the Socialist vote ex-
ceeded the Democratic tabulation.

At Columbia,. noted for its liberal stand, Norman
Thomas held the lead in a poll run by the Spectator.
The vote was: Thomas 405, Hoover 361, and Roose-
velt 227. This is only a small portion of the total
student body voting at Columbia, but it shows the
tendency. At Georgia Tech, the Democratic candi-
date is leading, but the exact figures are not known.

All colleges must have their rules and regulations,
but there is one rule for which Davidson has no need.
This rule prevents visiting students at the college in-
firmary from kissing invalid members. ofthe oppo-
site sex.
provided for the visitors. The law was passed, not
because of any moral reasons, but purely as a sani-
tary measure, to prevent the spread of any disease.

Miss Patricia McGuire of Chicago has shown signs
of waking up from an eight-month nap. This modern
Rip Van Winkle, a girl of twenty-seven, went to
sleep February 25, with a serious case of sleeping
sickness. During the long period of her sleep she
has been fed through tubes by nurses and doctors.
It is said that recently she turned over and has even
attempted to talk with her mother.

Walter Damrosch, composer and orchestra conduc-
tor, and who holds a Music Appreciation Hour over
the radio, i§bitterly opposed to the plan about to be
instigated by Leopold Stokowski, leader of the Phila-
delphia Symphony Orchestra. Mr. Stokowski has
planned to increase the number of modernistic mu-
sical selections. played for the benefit of school and
college ‘students at special “hours. Damrosch is
against this, saying that the modernistic music is
only a passing fancy, and that it would be disastrous
to the musical education of the younger generation
to force upon them such music. He tries to show

modernistic music will soon follow.

Recently an old form of swindling has been re-
vived, and the Post Office Department has issued
a warning against the fraud. The system is rather
old, but has recently been revived with some success
by some Mexican. swindler. The operator of the
fraud sends letters to Americans “in whom he can
put absolute trust,” telling them that he has a trunk
in the custody of the United States custom authori-
ties-in which is secreted a large sum of money. In
order to get possession of the trunk, he must have
a few thousand dollars in cash. The swindler makes
the proposition that if the American will advance
him about four thousand dollars, the Mexican will
get his money from the custom officers and will share
it with the American friend in sufficiently large pro-
portion to make the four thousand advancement very
profitable. The postal authorities have not yet been
able to trace down the swindlers, but warns the pub-
lic against such propositions.

The old medieval Guild system has been revived,
and is in full-power-in_China. The Chinese National
Government has recently passed a law that-every

business concerh°and factory is required to be a

member of a guild. Up to this time membership in
these organizations was purely optional, but recently,
under the suggestion of the Shanghai Chamber of

Commerce, the membership is compulsory. The ob-

ject of the guilds is to strengthen government con-
trol of the industry and business of China.

.The depression attempted to affect even the ani-
mals in the New York zoo, but since they refused to
have it-bother them, they are living in the same lux-
ury that they knew before the depression. In order
to reduce expenses, the director of the New York zoo
accepted an offer for a free shipment of frozen whale
meat from a Norwegian concern. When the meat

‘arrived, it was noticed that whale steak was not

bright red like beef steak, but it was thought that
as long as it was meat and had the odor of meat,
the change of diet would not be noticed by. the ani-
mals. But in this the director was mistaken. The
lions just sniffed at it and walked away. The bears
played ball with the meat, and all the other animals
did likewise with the exception of two. The Alaskan
brown bears and the Polar bears ate a little of the

South Carolina upholds the decision of the P. C.
Board of Trustees. Please copy, Davidson College
Board of Trustees.

Emory
From Emory we find that two of Davidson's old
athletes, Grier- Martin and-Grimmy George, are get-
ting along splendidly. Grier is coach of the Sopho-
more intramural football team. Imagine “Zeke” coach-
ing football! Grimmy_is_in the Lamar School_of
Law and is still showing his heels to the hurdlers

to have dances on their campus if the Synod of

- of, Emory.

To enforce the rule, chaperone’ will be.

that cubism and ‘modernism in art is dead, and that

vo

. several Seniors almost “knocked over” rather
than “tapped” at the O. D.-K. initiation of a morning
last week.

. .. Mims Rogers give everlastingly a new mean-
ing. Ed Holt told him if he would lend him two
dollars he would be “everlastingly” indebted to him.
Mims remarked, “that’s what I’m afraid of.”

... Paul Brown trying to raise his window. It
was stuck after all‘the rainy weather we've been
having. John Lake, his roomie, was looking on and
commented that it was swollen and would be all
right in a few days.

... the big problem of the “Y” successfully solved
—having students fill up the front seats. The moral
is invite deputations from women’s colleges often if
you want front seats filled, fair weather or foul.

... genial Major Rhett, new military head at Da-
vidson, pick up a student in his car, unaware that
he was a major, too. Yes, it was Major Clark of the
Fresh class. I heard that Major Rhett attended the
University of South Carolina and: was: editor’ of the
annual his Senior year.

. some students visiting the local cemetery.
There are some interesting tombstones to be found
there. ;

..a student ask the price of a room at a Char-
lotte hotel.—TLhe clerk’ explained that the rates were
five dollars up. The lad said that he was a college
student and then found out that in that case the rate
would be five dollars down.

...a prof. ask Eb Willson how to spell his name.
He replied, “Mr. Eb Willson—W-i-l-l-s-o-n.” “Yes,
and’now how do you spell Eb?” asked the prof.

. . . George Sherrod, Bill Brown, Reeves Pope,
George Gullette, Chink Thompson, Lynn Huie and
Joe Whitted in a circle discussing something evident-
ly very funny in front of the Love Nest last Wednes-
day at the 3 period.

... Quite a few of the stray young men about the
campus go over to attend the party given in Mitchell
College Saturday night. Yes, and they behaved like
models. The affair was held in the gym and they
were locked in. In this way everybody was present
and accounted for. They Say there wasn’t any moon,
anyway, and report a good time was had by all.

... Bill Johnson, Charles Myers and Alec Schenck
leave Saturday for Greensboro, Chapel Hill, Dan-
ville, Va., and points north. They say they had an
enjoyable trip.

. the Pritchett children having the best time
climbing trees in their yard Saturday morning. I
was envious of them and if I was sure-nobody was
looking I might have.climbed right up a tree too,
and tried a few Tarzan stunts. I love to climb trees!

... Ernest Milton in town for a few moments Sat-
urday morning. He’ came up on business. We are
always glad to see him and wish he would drop by
more often.

. .. Howard McPhail of Jacksonville who was a
Fresh here last year, up for the week-end on his way
to Asheville. We are sorry he decided not to return
this year_and_hope that he will_plan_to come back
later on.

. a Charlottean tell her husband on the way
back to the club house after the Bobby Jones golf
match Saturday afternoon that as far as she Was
concerned it was a fizzle. She didn’t see a single
frock she liked.

. the faculty adviser of a Fresh look at his
grades and try to get him interested in his work by
asking him why he was coming to college. The Fresh
replied, “Well, mother says it’s to fit me for the
presidency; Uncle Bill, to sow my wild oats; Sis, to
get her -a- beau; and Pa, to bankrupt ‘the family.”

...A W. & L, student take out his powder puff
and let it do its work.’ He says that they all do it
at W. & L. instead of carrying a can of powder. This
is the scoop of the week, I’ve tried it, too, on the sly,
and it’s not such a bad idea at that. The main thing
is not to let your best girl see you do it, because she
will never quit kidding. Now I’ve told you the gos-
sip for the week. It’s a service second only to’the
reports of the United States Weather Bureau. I
know it’s good; it’s good, it has to be to be printed
at Davidson. Requests keep coming in to be more
selective and discreet and I_am trying very hard to do
this by telling you only a few of the items of inter-
est. .

TIP POFF.

whale meat because it was somewhat similar to seal.
Even they were not very enthusiastic over the direc-
tor’s attempt at economy. Now the animals are back
on their regular diet of beef, getting their regular
order of two hundred and fifty pounds a day. If
the animals had liked the whale steak, the taxpayers
of New York City would have been saved $10 to $15
or day, or anywhere from three to five thousand
dollars per year. -
