THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 11, 1932

<

Final Plans Being Made By Alumni
Office For Alumni Day Celebration

Many Letters Have Been Mailed
Through Secretary‘s Office by
Class Presidents, and Still
Others Follow

i
asa waa |
GENERAL INVITATION |
This Will Be Sent to Over Four Theu-|
sand Alumni Next: Week. Out- |
line of Program |

SEE BEE A: |

The 96th commencement of Davidson is near
at hand, and exactly four weeks from today,
alumni of the institution will be flocking here
for the annual Alumni Day -celebration, when
special have scheduled and
when hundreds of other former students will
be coming back to renew the friendships with
faculty members, and to associate with. their
college classmates.

For the past month, the alumni office at Da-
vidson has been busy sending out letters to the
reuniting classes, and within the next week an
invitation will be mailed to all of the 4,000 or
more alumni on the mailing list. Enclosed with
the invitation will be a program for the ap-
proaching occasion, and a ballot for Alumni As-
sociation officers.

classes reunions,

Personal letters have been written by the
secretary to members of the class of 1882, who
return for their fiftieth reunion, Through the
office letters have been mailed for Hugh A.
Query, Gastonia, president, 1909; Dr. Jatnes
P. Hendrix, Philadelphia, Pa., alumni president,
1925; Roland B. Parker, Chapel Hill, president,
1926; Caldwell: Withers, Jr., Columbia, S. C.,
president, 1928, and Dan S. LaFar, president,
1931, Dr. W. J. Martin, ’88, Richmond, Va.,
wrote,a letter through the alumni office to the
classes of 1887, 1888, 1889, and 1890, all of
whom reunite together, and Prof. F, L. Blythe,
Davidson, did likewise to the members of 1907.

The alumni secretary wrote a‘letter to the
classes of 1906 and 1908, telling about the pro-
posed reunions of 1907 and 1909, and invited
them to return, though emphasis will not be
laid upon these classes this year. because 1906
was at Davidson for their 25th reunion last
commencement, and 1908 will be here for a sim-
ilar celebration next fall, Fred FE. Hashagen,
07, and Mr. Query, both of Gastonia, are writ-
ing personal letters to members of their re-
spective classes.

On the desk of the secretary are other letters
which will be mailed out within the next few
days. These include one from T. S. Lawson,
Montgomery, Ala., alumni president, 1926; Rev.
P. J. Garrison, Elizaville, Ky., alumni presi-
dent, 1928, and one from Dr. J. S. Brown, ’89,
Hendersonville, to members of his class. A half-
dozen others are expected from class officers
within a ten-day period.

Changes Made

Commencement at Davidson this year has
been changed slightly. Both the baccalaureate
and Y. M. C.'A. sgrmons will be given on May
22nd, information of which can be found in
other’ columns on this page. These are ten days
prior to the graduation exercises. The trustees
of Davidson will meet as usual on Tuesday,
May 30th, and will have no activities which
will ‘interfere with their deliberation. In pre-
vious years they have met on Alumni Day, and
were unable to attend all of the activities be-
cause of continued sessions.

‘Preliminary to the heavy program of June
Ist will be the formal gathering of the Alumni
Council on Tuesday night, May 31st, which will
be meeting in its second annual session. Each
council member has already received a pro-
gram of their scheduled deliberations, and the
first gathering will be almost entirely devoted
to business.

All Alumni Invited

The council continues its sessions Wednesday
morning, and breaks up into three discussion
groups, to which all of the alumni are cordially
invited. Outgoing members of the Senior class
who have been elected members of the council
will make presentations on the religious, social
.and athletic life of the campus, and the group
sessions will. be presided qver by a chairman
from the returning alumni.

At 12:30 p. m. the annual alumni luncheon

~ will be given the visitors, and this will be fol-

lowed immediately by the Alumni Association,

meeting. Class meetings or ‘group meetings will

Died Recently

Dr. James Wyly Jackson
To Be Final “Y” Speaker

Columbia, S. C., Pastor Announced for

Part of May 22nd Program. Dr.
R. F. Campbell.in Morning

Rey
the

. James Wyly Jackson, D.D., pastor of
First Presbyterian Church of Columbia, S.

1C., will deliver the final sermon before the Y.

M. C. A. on the evening of May 22nd, as a
part of Davidson College’s 96th graduation ex-
ercises, This announcement has been made by
Carl R. Pritchett, °30,
the Y: M. C, A,

Dr. Jackson was born in Gate City, Va. He
is a graduate of Emory and Henry College, and
received his bachelor of divinity degree from

executive seeretary of

Louisville Theological Seminary. His first pas-
torate was at Lynville, Tenn., and before going
to his present charge he had churches at Talla-
hassee, Fla., and: Greenwood, S. C.

Dr. Jackson's sermon will conclude the first
day’s exercises of Davidson’s graduating cere-
monies. On the morning of the 22nd, Rev. R,
F, Campbell, D.D., pastor of the First Presby-
terian Church of Asheville, will the
baccalaureate hefore the graduating
class, and Dr, Jackson will speak at 8 o'clock
that night. The alumni day exercises and pres-
entation of diplomas will be held on June Ist
and 2nd, respectively.

deliver
sermon

to be followed by the faculty-senior baseball
game, and possibly a reception by the faculty.
The class day exercises will come at 5:30 in
the afternoon, and if plans for the» senior-fae-
ulty banquet will go through tl¥s will be at
6:30, with the literary society program at 8:30,
Thursday, June 2nd, will be devoted to the
graduation exercises.

No preliminary arrangements are being made
by the alumni office for class reunion dinners.
A survey will be made of the returning men on
Alumni Day, and should a sufficient number
desire such a banquet, arrangements will be
made in the afternoon for it.

J. E. WATTS.

QD Courtesy Dallas (Texas) News.

John ‘Espy Watts, '86 graduate, and for ten

years president of Southwestern Presbyte-

rian Home and School for Orphans, who
died at Itasca, Texas, on April 23rd.

R. B. Hayes, 1929 Alumnus,
Gives Physics Equipment

Elaborate Metal-Working Lathe and
All Necessary Tools Is Gift of
Recent Graduate

The physics department of Davidson College
recently been given metal-
lathe with all
for its complete use in metal and

has an elaborate

working necessary tools and
equipment
wood work. The lathe was the present of R. B.
Hayes, of Hudson, a 1929 graduate of David-
M. Douglas, of the de-

partment. The donor and his father have made

son, announced Dr, J.

several trips to Davidson to supervise its in-
stallation.

Davidson Will Honor Three Alumni
_ With Doctor of Divinity Degrees

Names of Rev. C. L. Crane, Rev. H. G.
Bedinger, and Rev. O. C. William-

son Are Announced by Presi-
dent Lingle

TO BE GIVEN JUNE 2ND
One On Mr. Crane Will Be Conferred

in Absentia. Others Will Be
Here That Day

Davidson College will honor three prominent
leaders of the Southern Presbyterian Church
on June 2nd, of the 96th commencement period,
when it wilk confer doctor of divinity degrees
upon three alumni of the institution, according
to an annoutigement made here today by Dr.
Walter L. Litgle, president of Davidson.

The men whe will be thus honored are: Rev,
C. L. Crane, ’b7, missionary to Africa; Rev.
I, G. Bedinger, ‘11, president of Flora Mac-
donald. College at Red Springs, and Rev. O. C,
Williamson, ‘18, of Austin, Texas, former mis-
sionary to Mexico and now member of the fac-
ulty of Austin Theological Seminary. The de-
gre cupon Mr. Crane will be conferred in ab-
sentia, but the other two will be here in person
to receive this honor.

Mr. Crane is a native of Decatur, Ga. and
was graduated with the bachelor of arts degree
at Davidson in 1907. For a while he attended
the Georgia Institute of Technology, and later
enrolled at Union Theological Seminary, Rich-
mond, Va, where he obtained his bachelor of
divinity degree. In January, 1912, he sailed for
Africa, where he has been doing mission work,
first at Luebo, and later at Mutoto. He has
been connected with the Morrison Bible School,
which is known as the Presbyterians’ “largest
theological seminary.”

The president of Flora Macdonald College is
a native of Richwood, Ky., and graduated from
Boys’ High School in Atlanta, Ga. in 1908. In

stated that it provided the department with a
machine that had long been needed, and which
would enable a greater variety of work to be

Valuable Documents Are
Given by Caldwell Roane

Member of Senior Class Donates Old

Textbook and Copies of Addresses
Made Here in ’40’s
Caldwell Roane, of Winston-Salem, member
of the 1932 graduating class at Davidson Col-
lege, has presented to Davidson several valu-
able historical documents, including a chemistry
book used in the infant days of the college, and
three addresses delivered by his. grandfather,
the late Walter Pharr Caldwell, during the
early 40's.

“A Defense of Phrenology” is the subject of
the graduation address of the late Mr. Caldwell,
and was delivered at Davidson on August 30,
1841. Another speech was his valedictory ad-
dress delivered before the Philanthropic Liter-
ary Society on July 14, 1841. Two years later,
Mr. Caldwell returned to Davidson, and in
April, 1843, he addressed the Philanthropic So-
ciety as an alumnus.

Although almost a century old, these docu-
ments have been well preserved by the family,
and are clearly legible, and can be read easily
with the naked eye. It was pointed out that the
chemistry book, used in the classes at Davidson
1840,
which showed that the institution was abreast

in was also published the same year,
of the times. In addition to the above, Mr. Roane
of

grandfather, which was taken after he reached

presented to Davidson a_ photograph his

maturity.

1911, Mr. Bedinger was given his bachelor of

arts degree from Davidson. Before attending

FUnion Theological Seminary at Richmond, Va.,

he taught at the Donald Fraser School for Boys,
and the Decatur High School, both at Decatur,
Ga. His bachelor of divinity degree was award-
ed in 1916, For two years he was assistant
superintendent and evangelist of Asheville Pres-
bytery ; was a chaplain in the World War and

a member of the A. E. F.°He was pastor of

be held after the adjournment of the entire body,

J O JONES CO

“Davidson Headquarters in Charlotte”

COMPLETE OUTFITTERS |
_. TO COLLEGE MEN

208 South Tryon Street

Charlotte

The machine will handle all sorts of metal} done now than had until this time been pos-| the First Presbyterian Church, Hartsville, S. C.,
a : Special Display and wood work on articles up to ten feet in] sible. (Continued on page 6)
The alumni office will have on display at|length. It is equipped with four different speeds,
commencement pictures of the 1906 and 1907} and various automatic adjustments to enable the
football teams of Davidson, which were given to user to cut threads, as well as turn out ordi-
the office several Years ago by Thos. W. Ran- nary lathe work. e !
kin, ’09, of Fayettevilley J. M. McCorkle, 00, The Davidson professor estimated the value of e€ nN I O 1g S e
(Continued on page 5) the lathe and equipment at about $2,500. He
>
GET YOUR ENGRAVED CARDS for
e
The New York Hospital COMMENCEMENT INVITATIONS
Prices $2.50 and $3.00
e
School of Nursing See P. M. CONWAY or D. G. MARTIN
Representing
OUD
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
DIRECTOR OF THE SCHOOL GARLAND COURT
1300 York Avenue : New York City CHARLOTTE, N. C.
e4 2
a “t3

Davidson Theatre

“RESERVED

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
“SCARFACE”

PAUL NUMI
WEDNESDAY
“STATE’S ATTORNEY”
JOHN BARRYMORE
THURSDAY

LESLIE HOWARD
___ FRIDAY
“THE RICH ARE ALWAYS WITH US”
RUTH CHATTERTON
SATURDAY

“MIRACLE MAN”
CHESTER MORRIS AND SYLVIA SYDNEY

FOR LADIES”

