THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 21, 1932

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
jate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
ice, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

EDWARD _O. GUERRANT Editor-in-Chief
A. M. MANSON, Busi Manag
SSSR
EDITORIAL STAFF
L. W. ARDY. Managing Editor
A, F. SCHENCK Managing Editor
WwW. M. OM ing Editor
JACK WILLIAMS. ing Editor
ODL CASALI Athletic Editor
. E. LAKE. .--.---Exchange Editor
. W. WHITE Feature Editor
RLS GAMLD Db bebbessudeccctalovccsbocoLsdsoL ckawane AAG Editor
D. D. McBRYDE. Editor
Ri7ly OGRE Ce csncabigasiabbupiobucbabued Pr ep eey ate Editor
.C. F. MYERS. Associate Editor
B. B, SUGG ---.-Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

W. T. LOR RNSON A t B Manager
A. H. MANSON Assistant B
ALVIN BAYER, JR
Fs i NIEI olicitor
ti to
W... olicitor
i. E icitor
REPORTERS’ CLUB
. E, LAKE President

-Vice- President
..--Secretary-Treasurer

McCLINTOCK

8 W. ALDERMAN

.L.
. ALDERMAN . L. McILWINEN
BAILY F. McPHAIL
BAILEY . C. NEILL
BARNES L. NORTHEN
Bova. “E. NORVELL
BOYD L. POWELL
. COVINGTON P, PRESTON

IN M. GERS

. FICKLIN L. SE

H,

GULLETTE
HELLINGER
HENRY
aE ER
eid

Woo
. MULLISS

SAR UOMO EOP
ee
i>}
ee ee

Beun<
433 €2455
fe)
=
ba]
re)
vA

RATT-THOMAS

SEPTEMBER 21, 1932

Adversity gauges the caliber of great souls.
Prosperity sifts out the small ones.

THOUGHTS IN PASSING

With the opening game of the season with Duke
coming this Saturday at Durham the Wildcat eleven
is very rapidly being rounded into shape. There is
still some uncertainty as to:the starting lineup, how-
ever, because of the fact of the great amount of
material, especially in the backfield. This is a rather
unusual case at Davidson, so let’s make the most
of it.

pies GERI » Seer

The writer of “Tip Poff” does not wish to reveal
his identity to the student body, so we would appre-
ciate it if no more inquiries were ‘made about him.
D.

We feel sure that many members of the Freshman
and also the upper classes will be greatly relieved
shortly after this edition makes its appearance: with
the closing of the fraternity rushing season. It will
mean that the regular life on the campus will be
resumed after a rather strenuous two weeks.

~ Sa
As has been the custom in the ‘past, The David-
i will duct a straw ballot to find out the
trend of thought of the Davidson student body about
“the coming Presidential election.
D

We wonder if many students in the hurry of go-
ing to and from town and classes ever take time to
note the beauty of our campus. It is considered by
many to be one of the most beautiful college cam-
Puses in the South.

——_D

For the Freshmen—A good start now will go a long
ways to help minimize any small shortcomings schol-
astically later on: It will give a good impression
which is always helpful.

—_D

A holiday really would be welcome news to many
of our students this next Saturday. Two years ago
about half of the student body went to Durham, and
Duke certainly is a much improved team from that
eleven of 1930.

Among other differences in the cut system this
year from that of last is that the one this year is
much more easily understood than that of last year.
D

Although it is a bit early to tell anything about the
Freshman team, from all appearances they will pro-
duce a very creditable team. They will be lighter
than the 1931 elevén, however.

D

Many of those in the Junior and Senior classes will

be interested to know that Charlie Sisson, ’31, came

through Davidson the other day accompanied by his ©

wife on his way to the Harvard Law School.
————_.D) _—__.

Reeves Pope should have a good orchestra this year,
as only one member of the group last year failed
to return this year. This was E. B. Robinson, last
_year’s leader. One valuable addition this year will be

“Bob Orr, who was not in college last year because
of an injury.
: ——D
Among other visitors on the campus this last week-
end were Roland Parker, ’26, who has many friends
in Davidson, and Grier Martin, '32, editor of The
Davidsonian last year.
D.
A good amount of interest is being manifested in
the Freshman cake race which will be held soon, and

OPEN FORUM

WORLD SPECTATOR

I SAW

HISSING IN CHAPEL

Recently there has been an excess amount of
hissing during the chapel hour, especially when
the students are asked to rise to sing a hymn.
Perhaps it is very tiresome to stand up after
going through two hard classes or else run-
ning all the way from your room to your
chapel seat, but it is a sign of discourtesy, of
impoliteness, and of improper rearing. It is
a hurt to the pride of our president, it hurts
those members of the student body who do not

approve of such doings, and it is a bad influ~ .
‘ence on the new men, who seeing the upper-

classmen doing the hissing, think that it is the
thing to do, thus they will take up hissing, and
continue it on down through the history of
the school and Davidson will have a reputation
of a school for cowards and the like.

Last year the same thing occurred on the
football field and the students were given a
good talking to by one of the members of the
coaching staff. Two things, he said, hissed,
and they were a snake and a coward. A snake
will hide in the grass and hiss, and when he

‘has a chance he will bite until he poisons. his

victim. Those-hissers-only hiss-because-some-
one is doing it, they are afraid to hiss alone.
They know what people think-of-such-persons
and will refrain from doing such because they
are cowards.

You upperclassmen set the Freshmen a good
example and refrain from such childish and
cowardlly acts, think of the honor of David-
son, of the tradition which is firmly against
such underhanded methods of showing disap-
proval. You only have to stand up about two
minutes in all, and standing up two minutes
will not hurt anyone unless they are crippled
or paralyzed, Consider that we are singing
praises to-God, that chapel is a devotional pe-
riod and not a period to show our disapproval
of something that is contrary to our own opin-
ion. We all are_(or at least we all should be)
very willing to stand up when “O Davidson”
is played. Why shouldn’t we be more willing
to stand up and sing praises to God, who cre-
ated us and gave us this college that we honor
with the song that He gave us?

Stop your hissing immediately, for if you
don’t you will in all likelihood take it out on
the football field with you, and Davidson will
lose all the reputation it has for clean sports
and clean rooting. Fight a good fight, be a
leader, not a follower. All of those hissers
are merely followers, not leaders.

“And when that great Scorer comes to write
against your name, He writes not whether you
won or lost, but how you played the game.”
We.must play this game in the stands and in
all phases..of.life. Stop hissing.

A GREAT LOSS

Once in a great while do we find a person

“so wrapped up in his work that it becomes a

part of him, because of the time, consistent
thought and work he has put upon it. Such
a person is Ernest Milton, who has served as
Alumni Secretary for the past six years.
After his graduatin in 1926 he was offered
this position and—accepted_it.—.Starting..from
nothing six years ago, he has built this de-

partment up till it is a model of efficiency. .

Keeping in touch with the alumni of David-
son is a stupendous task, the magnitude of
which few of uS realize.. He has the names
of thousands of Davidson graduates, and the
position requires that he become so familiar
with all their: tiames that he can immediately
recognize them in any newspaper which he
might read. This information is then trans-
ferred to his Alumni page in The Davidsonian.
By this method Davidson alumni may keep up
with each other as well-as learn the current
news at Davidson. Outside of this he has sent
out news dispatches to papers throughout the
South about events at Davidson. The work
of sending out news dispatches will be carried
on by Professor Beaty and Professor Kim-
brough, but the alumni work will be discon-
tinued for a while at least. No person is capa-
ble at the present time, in view of the fact of
the large acqaintance Ernest Milton now has
with the alumni, of taking over the work just
as he left it. It would require a great amount
of time and energy for any Other person to
ever get this work to a point where it now is.
We feel that Davidson will lose a person
who has always been a loyal: worker, but we
congratulate him on his appointment.as treas-
urer at the Barium Springs Orphanage. Al-
though we realize that we have suffered a loss,
we know equally well that another Presbyte-
rian institution has gained a person of excel-
lent Christian character who will serve it
faithfully. :

THE ACID TEST

There wasn’t much trouble in getting ahead in the

years that followed the, great war. Almost anybody
could find a job:-Atmost anybody could make more
money than he needed to support him. Men were
so much in demand that they all, good or bad, imag-

we hope as usual that some track talent will be dis-
covered here that would not otherwise be. revealed.

by perfectly

~find out what this is and how to correct it.

Mussolini, Italy’s man of iron, has even attempted
to change the size and weight of the Italian women.
He has issued an edict swhich prescribes that the
Italian. women “shall return to more generous lines.”
How this edict will be carried out is not known, but
it seems that it will take more than a command to
add inches to the dimensions of the Italian ladies.

Last Wednesday the murderer of President Paul
TJoumer was executed on the guillotine. It will be
remembered that the French president was shot by
Dr. Paul Gorguloff, a Russian physician, while he
was attending an art exhibit. Gorguloff was cap-
tured, but the authorities were unable to find if he

had any connection with the Soviet or communism. ~
_But whether he was hired by any organization or
“not, he paid for his deed on the guillotine Wednes-

day.

The federal tax op luxuries will not be
placed upon Metropolitan Opera tickets. It was
thought that opera tickets would be taxed, but the
Metropolitan Opera Company has’ managed to evade
the tax. This was partially accomplished by chang-
ing the organization from a stock corporation to a
membership corporation, The new, corporation does
not distribute any” profits or declare dividends. To
further help the company to be exempt from ‘tax, it
was shown that the Metropolitan Opera Company is
an educational institution, approved by the Commis-
sioner of Education of the State of New York, Thus
legal means, another tax has been
evaded. It s¢ems that if there is much more of this
evasion of the tax, there will be no income at all
from the new federal tax. In spite of accurate phras-
ing of the tax law, there seems to be always some
way of getting out of having to pay.

The depression has affected not only the business
man and the laborer, but it has even caused kings and
princes to think’ of economic management of their
households. They, like any other government offi-
cials, are provided a salary, and like the salaries of
most of the other government officials, theirs have
been reduced too. In Bulgaria, King Boris has a
very lithited income, and has abolished all official
receptions and entertainments for this year. He
dresses very simply, almost badly dressed, but he has
one thing on which he cannot economize. That is
his food. The king enjoys good food and plenty of
it, so in spite of the depression, he keeps up the
standard of his meals.

In Roumania, one of the richest of the Balkan
states, the payroll of all government officials, from
King Carol to the most lowly dog catcher, has been
cut twenty per cent. Carol has cut down on his
receptions and has also. cut the costs of his menu
and cuisine. Instead of elaborate menus, Carol has
chosen simple food. Like Boris of Bulgaria, Carol
has one thing upon which he cannot economize. This
is his interest and love for automobiles. This is a
rather expensive interest, but is not so bad now with
the low price of gasoline in Roumania.

The depression may, be a very pessimistic and dole-
ful topic of discussion, but in spite of all the unem-
ployment and business reverses, there are a few
bright spots in this time of -business deflation, One
of the greatest things the depression has done is to
make a great many people realize\that money is not
necessary to happiness. Many havevalso discovered
things around them which they never before noticed.
They have become more sociable and many have
become more literary, since reading a book is a very
inexpensive way to spend an evening. Many/ have

ined that they had sotfe special qualities which made
them desirable to employers. Wage rises and pro-
motions were frequent. As a consequence it was
really impossible for anybody, including the man him-
self, to tell how much a man was really worth. That
is all changed now. In the paring down process em-
ployers went over the records of the men who worked
for them. When it was needful to lay men off, the
least valuable-were the victims. This was tough, for
many of them were good fellaws, and needed the
jobs, but it couldn’t be helped.

Today when so little work is to be had, you may
be sure that the most useful people, the most ‘at-
tentive to business, and with the best trained minds
are those at work—barring a little favoritism here
and there. Today is the time for a young man to
put himself to the test. If he gets’a job and holds
it but a few days, he ‘hay know there is something
the matter with him. It will be worth his while to
And it
will be well for boys who are just beginning to work
to understand that they must make good or they
will be asked to get out, politely or impolitely.

“Sweet are the uses of adversity,’ sang Shakes-
peare. That sounds satirical now, but the present
state of affairs may teach many a person the neces-
sity of using all his mind at his job, and sacrificing
a good many of his pleasures to do it. If it leads to
higher effort, more industry and clearer thinking, the
depression will in time pay many times over for the
losses it has caused. Think about it now, try to live
up to your ideals, and put forth the best efforts you
have in you. In that way, and in that way only,
you will make effort a habit.

Then when the next streak of hard times comes
along, if another does come in your lifetime, you will
not be one of those to be jdropped, but the one to be
kept on working and helping to get the firm out of
its troubles.

—Pasadena Star-News.

. Mrs. Doc Newton waiting in the gym for her
famous husband last Wednesday afternoon. When
the coach came in the office she was looking at a
card outlining some of the plays of the team. Sud-
denly she looked up and said, “What isa wedge?”
He chuckled to himself and replied, “Oh, you know
what.a wedge is. A wedge and a sledge hammer are
about the same thing.”

. Soup Brannon and Pete Whittle practicing their
sprinting as they ran from Smith’s boarding house
past Chambers to the physical ed building.

. Kalista Hood and her father in White’s drug
store Friday afternoon buying a toothbrush. This
was her first purchase since she returned to David-
son from England.. She is as brown as a berry. I
don’t Know how she got sun-tanned in foggy Eng-
land. Probably she went over for a stay on the Ri- |
viera and basked in the sunshine. Anyway she was
the cynosure of all eyes in her chic sports costume.
As I passed, Dr. Hood was advising her by all means
to buy Squibbs tooth paste.

. Wills Hollingsworth, Caskie Norvell, and Bob
Matthews going to thé river. Wills claims he ‘takes
Caskie and Bob with him every time he goes swim-
ming. “It makes me look like Apollo,” he added.
Now, if you know_Billy Lyon you might go swim-
ming in his pool. Then it isn’t necessary to swim in
the muddy Catawba. Billy has a pool in his back
yard and it is as nice a plunge as anyone could want.

. the cook at the Foreman’s house make. a com-
plete failure of her batter cakes. Dr. Foreman has
a weakness for batter cakes and they were made spe-
cially for him. However, he didn’t let it ruin his day
and took it like a true philosopher.

. Dr. Walter Lingle smile when he recently re-
marked that allowing a student to be excused from
a class on account of illness had “seriously injured
the health of this institution.”

. John Richards and Bill Matthews arguing
whether John ought to pay a fine of 10 cents for
using slang in Eu Hall at the literary society meet-
ing. To John’s great relief Ed McNair informed the
society that John had not used slang but a metaphor.

. a Freshman from Georgia running all over the
campus for a geography book, “I’ve got to find a |
geography or atlas or somethin’ or I'll flunk Dr.
Lingle’s history course,” he explained.

. a certain young man who hails from Virginia
walking out Concord road to the Arbuckles’ Sunday
night. I can’t decide on which member of the family
he was calling. Yotw-know there is more than one
good reason for calling at the Arbuckles’ now.

. that half of the students in one of Dr. Fore-
man’s Bible classes are Juniors when they really
ought to be Freshmen.

.

. Dr. Harding leave by auto for Lenoir to spend
the week-end about 1:30 o’clock Friday afternoon.
He announced in chapel that morning that he wanted
to see the boys from Lenoir. He afterwards offered
to take them with him. It’s a good thing the co-eds
didn’t know what he wanted for some of them might
have tried to go along with him.

. Doc Mathis has the best way of speaking to
Tee and Wee Thompson that has yet been discovered.
When he passes one of them on the street he says,
“Howdy Twee.”

. Charlie Myers back at school from the tennis
matches at Forest Hills. Now when you see him
exhibit fancy drives this season you will know he is
doing it a la Forest Hills.

. many Davidson men at the opening of the new
S. & W. Cafeteria on West Trade Street in Charlotte.
The place was full of flowers and looked more like a
florist’s shop than a restaurant. They have the handi-
est devices in the kitchen, new equipment, cozy
nooks, and dumbwaiters.

. somebody give an old yell that tsed to be a
favorite when the school colors were pink and blue.
It goes like this:

Rah! Rah!
Run! Run!
Pink and blue
DAVIDSON!

Rah!
Run!

TIP POFF.

returned to a simpler diet and a more simple and
wholesome life.

The costs of war run on to the third and fourth
generation. This is well illustrated by the fact that
it was only a few months ago that the United States
Government made its final pension payment forthe
War of 1812, which was fought one hundred and
twenty years ago. This may sound like an impossi-
bility, but the cause of this long extension of pension
was the fact that a very young girl married a very
old veteran. When the) veteran died, his young wife
received a widow’s pension until her death a- short
while ago. If this idea is used by World War vet-
erans, the government will probably still, be paying
pensions in 2032. As far as the actual war debts are
concerned, it will be a great many years before these
are paid up.
