THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 6, 1932

BOOK REVIEW

The Education of Henry Adams

With its rapidly increasing popularity, with
the growing number of allusions to it, on the
part of ordinary literary amateurs, educators,
religious leaders, and contemporary writers,
The Education of Henry Adams is becoming a
necessary part of that student's reading who
wishes to keep abreast of his day. The student
asks what the reason is for this great apprecia-
tion and publicity. Few critics will deny that
the work ranks among the two or three really
great American autobiographies of the last
three hundred years. Still it is not because of
choice words or power of style, of choice of
interesting although trivial details, or even
beauty of prose, but because of a vital and sub-
stantial quality, that this life is so widely her-
alded. It has hecome famous as an interpreta-
tion of an individual's career by that individual

Quizzes Concerning
Marriage Are Given

College Students Vote Health and
Character Pre-eminent Mating
Considerations

What are members of the younger genera-
tion looking for in future husbands and ‘vives ?
Do men desire physical beauty? Does the girl
want wealth and social position ?

Results of questionnaires submitted to the
550, students:‘at Arizona State Teachers College
by an advanced course in heredity show none
of these is important.

The common virtues of health and character
led the list of 15 characteristics those answering
the questionnaire were asked to rank. Men con-
sidered health most important in the future
wife, and demanded character second. Women
wanted character first and health second. Both
| groups placed intelligence third.
| Men rated personal appearance sixth and

to show the educational and educating experi- | women placed it ninth. Nationality was rated
ences of his life. But here is no mechanical, /as more important by the women than by the
scientific, dull weighing of causes and results,|men. The first group rated it seventh and the
of stimuli and reactions, Along with an inves- | second group eleventh.

tigation into an educative process is shown a| Both men and women put religion and de-
developing, a growing, a living philosophy or | sire for children at the bottom of the list. Only
group of beliefs worthy of that mind which | three per cent of the women’ gave religion of

constructed it. 'the future husband first place in importance,

Lt. Skaates to Be
Leader at Meeting

He Will Preside Over National Scab-
bard and Blade Convention

First Lt. Claude C. Skaates, Inf. Res., Colo-
nel of the National Society of Scabbard and
Blade, will preside at its 18th National Con-
vention to be held at Washington, University,
St. Louis, Miss. April 7, 8, and 9.

Colonel Skaates attended Ohio State Univer-
sity, Columbus, Ohio, where he was “enlisted”
into Company M, First Regiment, during his

a special course at Carnegie Institute of Tech-
nology, Pittsburgh, Pa., he instrumental
in establishing a chapter or company at that

was

Soon after leaving Ohio State University,
Colonel Skaates was commissioned a second
Lieutenant of infantry, ORC, and served tours
of duty at Fort Eustis, Va.. Camp Knox, Ky.,
Fort Benning, Ga., and Camp Perry, Ohio. In
July, 1928, he was promoted to the grade of
first lieutenant of infantry and assigned to the
29th Infantry, the crack demonstration regi-
ment stationed at Fort Benning, Ga., where the
Infantry School, the post-graduate course for
infantry officers, is located. Colonel Skaates is
jnow on the seniority list for promotion to the

undergraduate days in 1924. Later when taking |

school, known as G Company, Sixth Regiment. |

NEWS FROM

OTHER HILLS

(By Intercollegiate Press)

Risking death if he is bitten by sheep ticks,
carriers of the fatal form of spotted fever, a
young Sharpsburg scientist is leaving here to
camp for several months in the Bitter Root
Valley region of Idaho and Montana.

The valley, about 100 miles long and 50 miles
wide, is virtually uninhabited because of the
ticks there which spread the most virulent form
of fever. More than 90 per cent of persons who
contract the fever die.

The scientist, Dr. Walter R. Sweadner, grad-
luate assistant in zoology at the University of

| Pittsburgh, wants to discover how a species of |

{insects can cross-breed. ;

He hopes that specially designed clothing will
| protect him from the ticks. He also will carry
| serum prepared by the federal government. The
|insects with which he plans to experiment are
|silk moths. Their silk not
| value.

is of commercial!

Members of the Delta Gamma sorority at tne
University of Wisconsin have voted to forego
desserts at dinner once each week for the rest
of the college year, and present the total of
$75 thus saved to the student loan fund of the
university.

stroyed by German fury; restored by American
generosity).

The new library was built from funds col-
| lected in the United States soon after the war,
land Warren was chosen as the architect at that

ltime. The wording of the inscription has been

lin dispute for a number of years and has even

/led to some -yiolence.
——————

Only two-thirds the usual amount of ultra-
' violet rays have been drifting ‘down on sun
lhathers in the last few months, according to
Dr. Edison Pettit, astronomer at Mount Wilson

Observatory. ;

“Just as radio reception apparently improved
as the sun spots decreased in the cycle,” he
said, “so the ultra-violet radiation seemingly
has fallen off. We are within two years of the
turn in the sun spot cycle, when, if our as-
sumptions are correct, ultra-violet rays will
again begin to increase.”

Animals and plant life, he said, are affected
more by the rays than human beings because
the latter spend so much of their time out
of the rays of the sun.

Ivar Krueger, the Scandinavian multi-million-
aire match king who took his own life recently,

Henry Adams as a boy lived in the milieu
of the Quincy and Boston of 1840, in an atmos-
phere of aristocracy of leadership and brains.
As his table-companions he had the political
and social guides of the day. Even, however,
after four years spent at Harvard, he was able
to say, “Education had not yet begun.’ When
his father was appointed as ambassador to Eng-
land, he went along as private secretary only

While four per cent of the men said they would) grade of captain of infantry and will receive
consider it first. ‘his promotion soon after the national conven- |
According to Professor, Chester Deaver, head | tion in St. Louis. In civilian life Colonel Skaates
lof the department of biolmgx_at. the college, |is an advertising executive, |
what the younger generation desires in future |

at the age of 27 directed the construction of
Syracuse University’s Archbold Stadium, In
1930 the wealthy European came here to be
honored by the University with the honorary

When a constable appeared on the Harvard
campus regently to take possession of an auto-

|mates matters profoundly,
He believes the answers show an increasing
tendency to judge, the individual as himself and

Colonel Skaates has served the National So-
| ciety of Scabbard and Blade in many capaci-
‘ties since leaving school. He has been Corps
|

|mobile for repairs on which the student owner
| was alleged to have refused to make payment,

j students at the university laid down a barrage |
| Area Inspector for the Fifth Corps Area, em- |

of ripe fruit and stale eggs which effectively

|not by the tag he wears, and he thinks the next | bracing Ohio, Indiana, West Virginia and Ken-| kept the constable away.

degree of doctor of business administration.

Freshman girls at Wellesley College have
gained the right to smoke in the living rooms
of their dormitories after meals, a privilege

to discover the intrigues which make up polit-
ical engineering, to suffer innumerable disap-
pointments and disillusionments, to fail
mingle in society or be recognized. England was
soon left behind for travel abroad. Adams was
treated to as generous an amount of traveling
as most men of leisure in that day. But accord-
ing to Adams it was neither in his experience
in politics nor in adventures in traveling that
his education truly began. Nature taught her
first real lesson at the time of the death of his

!generation will be healthier and happier as ajtucky; vice-president or lieutenant colonel of |

The student owner of the car prepared a certi-| which the upper class students have not yet

to |

| consequence,

| Professor Deaver will present his findings to
the southwestern branch of the American As-
sociation for the Advancement of Science at its
‘annual meeting at Denver this month.

Dr. W. L. Lingle Will
' Talk to Convention
‘Is to Speak to Meeting of Mecklen-

| the national society when he edited the Scabbard
and Blade Journal and made many monumental

improvements in the society’s organ; and in|
1930 at the Twenty-fifth Anniversary Conven- |

tion he was elected Colonel or National Presi-
dent.

As the National Society, Lt.
Skaates has devoted generously of his time and
energy and has introduced many new and great
improvements to the society. It is entirely likely

Colonel of

jfied check before the police arrived to aid the
constable, and everything was “jake.”

| he second largest electromagnet in the world
{has been installed in the physics laboratory of
' Leyden University. The magnet weighs fourteen
tons and is seven and a half feet high. Beside
the huge magnet has been placed the tiny mag-
net constructed in 1896 by Professor Pieter

|
| : é : Y | Zeeman with which he discovered the famous
that the 18th National Convention will call | Zeeman Kffect. The big maget has only twice
, f A | «| © « . ic a> vice
upon him to continue as national commander jthe magnetic power of the small one, however. |
in order to carry on the work which he has

i 2 uae: ~ | inaugurated, . : |
Desiring to make some recognizable progress, | 10" of the Mecklenburg County Christian En- Wr Si Lear of ie Senior -claie will’ ba thie | After reading a number of letters from co-|
he installed himself at Washington with the | (leavor Association which is to be held in the

| fan ;
pos ¢ A ‘ds > NIX. §s 2 swena ne neite
| Second Presbyterian Cl ars | Davidson representative to the convention of | tS te The Phoenix, student newspaper, criti-

. os : . | Seco res TH ; c 5 c . | Cisi : se jj roe as
open intent of some day rising in the affairs of | resbyterian Church in Charlotte next | Scabbard and Blade this. year. | Sting her course in hygiene as too elementary

the capital, but with the administration of Grant | Friday night, April 8, at 8 o'clock, Dr. Lingle | and a waste of time to the students required to}
he realized that all his hopes were vain, There- | ¥#S asked to speak on any subject which he | |take it, Dr. Dorothy’ L. Ashton wrote a letter
° . ‘ | ra e vo as ve . ne ¢

fore this descendant of an almost royal family | Might choose but as yet he has not announced |

sister. Then it was that he saw with what cool | burg Christian Endeavor
cruelty man’s life was regarded, a conviction | Dr. W. Se ‘
which for him became more and more certain, | r. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson

he says, until it was almost too great to bear. | veeeeae cee cus tnnif eee r dy conver,

gained. The Student Council is looking into.the
matter for the older girls, however.

Although he accepted the job of selecting
the six prettiest girls in the Junior class at
Syracuse University, James Montgomery Flagg,
the artist, took occasion to poke fun at the idea
in his letter of acceptance.

He wrote:

“Sure—I'll pick out the prettiest gals—if any
—or if six. All sorts of colleges every year do
this to me, salt water, fresh water and bilge-
water colleges, and I have had to gaze on some
of the most god-awful female mugs in this
broad tho’ narrow land! -

“T know now why there are so many pretty
gals in New York—all the ugly ones are in col-
leges. What else can they do? ... Let me sce

{the worst! But as I allus say, if I don’t think

was glad to accept an offer from Eliot of Har- | what he will speak about.

vard of a chair in history. Education grew in The meeting is called by Miss Maud Little,
his attempts as a teacher to theorize in the field | president of the association, for the purpose of
of history, to draw unity out-of complexity, to | bringing the (Christian Endeavorers of the
attach a meaning ta,the story of mankind, His | County into a little closer union and to let them

autobiography modestly omits the twenty most | "€alize more the presence and the need of the |,

active years of his career to take the narrative |O'8@nization. Approximately five hundred mem-
up again at the time when Adams was more | ers of the different socicties in the county are

and more devoting his time to travel with a
few select friends to find proof for his theories.

Adams never was a great social lion; yet he
numbered among his friends some three of the
remarkable men of his time, Clarence King,
John Hay, and Henry Cabot Lodge. He wrote
toward the end of his life, “Mont Saint-Michel
and Chartres: A Study of Thirteenth Century
Unity,” to be contrasted with this “Education
of Henry Adams: A Study of Twentieth Cen-
tury Multiplicity.” From all of this, it can he
observed that this was a life of rather plain
living and high thinking, a life which was the
development, probably, of all the owner's pos-
sibilities to the limit.

Henry Adams marked himself as a man of
ability and strong character. Never would he
have anyone believe that he showed signs. of
scholarliness, but his own account does not dis-
guise the fact that he had a knowledge of his
own powers, his intellect, his wisdom and un-
derstanding. He was a man whose mind was

nicely balanced; he never became a fanatic on |

a single subject; he could alter his opinion with
new and more authentic information; his wits
were keen enough to analyze, to discover, to
define, and, when need arose, to reconsider.
Not in late life did his viewpoint become a
bigoted or prejudiced one. There was something
of the adventurer in him which kept him fresh
and young to the very last. So much did he
depend on his mind, so introspective and self-
sufficient in the best sense of that expression
was he that he might have said with Dyer,
“My mind to me a kingdom is.” With all of
his excellent ‘attributes—and this is the most
notable thing about his history—he thought of
himself impartially, almost objectively, with-
out the least trace of prejudice or egotism. Al-
though not a religious man, not blessed with
the easy faith of others, he was a man of noble
integrity and ambition. driving him on to rea-
sonable achievement.

More could be said about his philosophy: his
belief that the importance of an event or an
entity lay in its influence as education in \ life;
‘his search for underlying unity in a world rap-
' idly becoming more complicated; his: followiag

of his ego only in accord with principles cf
‘ight; his endeavor to prove a theory that the

expected to be present at ‘the convention,

| Clyde White, director of music for the asso-
| ciation, is planning an excellent musical pro-
| Sram for the occasion which will add greatly
ito the attractiveness

| of the meeting as a whole. |

|
|
|
|
|

| N. C. French Association

| Holds Meet in Charlotte.

The French section of the North
| Modern Language

| meeting

Carolina
Association recently held a
in Charlotte. The meeting was attend-
jed by French professors of colleges and uni-
| versities throughout North Carolina.

Professor Rene Hardre of N. C. C. W. was
the principal speaker of the occasion,
Hardre has made several visits to Davidson,
speaking for Le Cercle Francais. At the busi-
ness meeting Professor A, V. Goldiere of Da-
| vidson was elected secretary-tre.

|
|

Professor |

Miss Lingle Named

Is to Head Agnes Scott Annual for
Next Year

| Miss Caroline Lingle, daughter of Dr. and

| Mrs. W. L. Lingle, has been elected editor-in-

ichief of the Agnes Scott college annual, “The |

| Silhouette,” for 1932-1933.

| Miss Lingle is a Junior at Agnes Scott and

‘is assistant editor of the annual this year.
The editorship is one of the most important
| posts a student can hold at Agnes Scott

| . . . .
| Miss Lingle’s election proves her literary

and
and
jexecutive ability. She takes a prominent part
|in student activities and belongs to the Cotillion
| Club, Y. W. C. A. and other local organiza-
| tions. She has for the past year written a col-
humn for the “Agonistic,” the school paper.

|

Few speeches which have produced an elec-
| trical effect on an audience can bear the color-
less photography of a printed. record.—Earl of

| Rosebery.

As Editor-in-Chief |

}of her own. In it she made public some of the
}answers to a question in a recent examination;
| ‘describe briefly the lungs.”

| Said one Swarthmore College co-ed: “The

| . .
| lungs are two oval-shaped things on either side
) of the heart.”

Said another: “There are two lungs that com-
| pletely fill the upper part of the diaphram.”
| And said others:
| “The lungs are connected with the respiratory
| system.”

| “The lungs might well be compared to two

| inflated tubes.”

“The lungs are a pair of rather smallish-
looking organs situated in the rightish side of
| the body.”

| It was predicted no more lette

rs would be
| received from the co-eds,
|

| ——

The hate that permeated the world in the
| World War will not be immortalized by the
}new library building of the University of Lou-
| vain, it has been decided by Belgium's highest

court.

| This was determined when the court rejected
| the appeal of Whitney Warren, American archi-
| tect, against a decision of a lower court pro-
| hibiting the erection of a balustrade on the new

any of them are good to look upon, I'll say so.”

Marion Shepard, Freshman at the University
of Michigan, is reported to be on the men stu-
dents’ “blacklist” as a result of a recent esca-
pade in which she donned men’s clothing and
jwalked into the Michigan Union Men’s Club
' through the front door.

The university has a tradition that bars wom-
en from entering the Union building through the
front door. Miss Shepard swaggered into thie
iclub without being detected. She told men
friends about it and tried it again. The men
tipped off police, who ‘caught her and warned
her about the men’s clothing.

Miss Shepard was said to be competing for
a position on the Michigan Daily, and engaged
in the stunt as a means of obtaining a feature
story for the paper.

As a high school student at Lakewood, Ohio,
Miss Shepard twice won first nrizes in na-
tional poetry contests sponsored by Quill and
Scroll, national journalistic fraternity,

Humor has gone to all sorts of trouble on
this continent to demonstrate that few things
can be laughed out of existence——Thomas Beer.

coming year asurer for the Omission library bearing the inscription: “Furore Teu-| Neither fear, nor wish for, your last day.—
| Rees : tonico diruta; dono Americano restituta’’ (De | Martial.
Virgin had been a force in the middie ages be- The name of John D. McConnell ‘bed ta ta
hind not only art but even the sciences. And | omitted frem the list of those invited
that is the charm of The Education of [enry | a join Fein chee Pi hea oeasad
Ada it bears h study and reflection, || Physics fraternity, which was recently || O
a HG ars creed Pure published in the Davidsonian. | Davidson Theatre
—-Frederick Hellegers. |
| MONDAY and TUESDAY
’ ! | “SKY DEVILS”
Seniors! | SPENCER TRACY
WEDNESDAY
GET YOUR ENGRAVED CARDS for | “IT’S TOUGH TO BE FAMOUS”
COMMENCEMENT INVITATIONS | | DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS, JR.
Prices $2.50 and $3.00 | THURSDAY and FRIDAY
See P. M. CONWAY or D. G. MARTIN | “ONE HOUR WITH YOU” y
Represesting | MAURICE CHEVALIER ®
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY oan Senna .
GARLAND COURT WING
CHARLOTTE, N.C RICHARD ARLEN—LUPE VELEZ
y IN. C, é
“ts ia

