THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 9, 1932

———— ee

INTERNATIONAL NEWS BITS

Pasadena, Calif—(IP)—The tables have
been turned, and now it is the gridiron that
is suffering from™too much classroom activ-
ity in the American college and university!

This, at least, is the conclusion drawn by
Dr. W. B. Munro, professor of history and
government at the California Institute of
Technology, from an investigation being
made by a special committee of the: Ameri-
can Association of University Professors.

The athletic coaches, he said, are becom-
ing worried. The beef and brawn of their
teams are becoming too interested in their
studies.

Dr. Munro said that several athletic direc-
tors complained that football men were tak-
ing their minds off football by too much
study.

Pittsburgh, Pa—(IP)—If you think any-
one on the campus of the University of
Pittsburgh took as a matter of course the
12 to 0 whitewashing given Notre Dame by
the Pitt Pantiers a few days ago, you don’t
know that good old Pitt spirit. i

True, after the first celebrations of the
event, the students bowed to the guiet Penn-
sylvania Sabbath and .stayed pretty sober
(mentally and aha hata over the week-
end.

But when Monday morning rolled around
the professors of the university went to their
classrooms to find them empty. The student
body simply had adjourned to the downtown
street corners, and all the college authorities
could do was to say it was all right and de-
clare the day a holiday,

Pittsburgh police then began to find them-
selves busy, for the students, not a few of
whom were co-eds, began storming the city’s
theaters. In one small riot four. undergrad-
uates were arrested and charged with de-
stroying property or creating a disturbance.

Other students were invading the campus
of Carnegie Tech, near by, but students of
that institution, mindful of the routing of
their own team by Notre Dame the week
before, found it just a bit difficult to get
hilarious about the affair.

The Tech students looked on with slightly
pained and somewhat envious expressions,
giving their callers what might be termed
a cool reception.

The Pitt revelers found doors locked and
Tech stalwarts looking silently down from
upper windows, with buckets of water be-
side them.

There was no deliberate attempt to damp-
en Pitt’s enthusiasm, but the water was kept
at hand just in case—

Edmonton, Alberta—(IP)—Formal recep-
tions are to take the places of hazing initia-
tions of men and women first year students
at the University of Alberta.

This was decided by votes. of the men and
co-eds, taken separately.

The students asserted that they believed
the university, having reached its. twenty-
first birthday, should now “grow up,” ‘and
conduct its social affairs in a dignified man-
ner.

New York—(IP)—Football injuries all
over the country will be noted in a survey
to be made under the auspices of the School
of Education of New, York University. -

The school conducted a survey of football
injuries in high schools and colleges last
year and will conduct the survey on a much
larger basis this year. A total of 580 insti-
tutions are to be asked to co-operate in the
survey.

New York—(IP)—The Columbia Specta~
tor, undergraduate newspaper at Columbia
University, is wrought up over the fact that
the University band is using four “ringers”
to complete its ensemble.

It was discovered by the paper that one
of the band members was from New York
University, two from the Juilliard School,
and one from a high school.

Said the Spectator in an editorial:

Alumni and students at Saturday’s foot-
ball game were titilated by the precise
“movements and, spirited playing of the “Co-
lumbia University—with exceptions—Band.”
But, strange persons that we are, we have
2decided, in the light of recent revelations,
that we would prefer the band off key if
we could be certain that the sour notes were
coming: from Columbia men.

“Harwood Simmons, the director, has ex-
pressed the hope that ‘in the future it wilf
be possible-to have~a—band- play at football
games composed entirely of Columbia stu-
dents. We would be satisfied for the pres-
ent to see a band composed entirely of uni-
versity students.”

Berlin—(IP)—Dr. Albert. Einstein, world-
famous mathematician, who next year will
becéme head of the- ithematics department
of the new Institute for Advanced Study in
New Jersey, will sait for the United States

jing his last campaign,

next month to spend the winter complet-
ing his work at the Mount Wilson Observa-
tory in California.

He began this study there last winter.

As a professor in the Institute for Ad-
vanced Study Dr. Einstein plans to spend his
time from October to April each year in the
United States and his summers at his home
here in Germany.
ment to the New Jersey institution.

Vienna—(IP)—Apologies have been offered
the United States by the rector of Vienna
University for the manhandling of several
American students last week during anti-
Jewish riots on the university campus.

As a result of a protest from the Ameri-
can minister a cordon of police was drawn
about the campus and no students were al-
lowed to enter for several days except those
who had to take examinations.

In the riots, incited by Hitlerite students
in revenge for a political shooting which had
taken place the day before, a large number
of Jewish students were severely injured.

The university was closed for a time after-
ward.

Schenectady—(IP)— —Engineers of the Gen-
erah) Electric Company—have . developed a
vacuum tube declared to be so sensitive as
a measuring device that it will measure an
electric current as small as 1/1,000,000,000,-
000,000,000th of an ampere. The tube also
can measure the light from distant stars.

Not satisfied with this, the engineers ex-
plain that the tube is sensitive enough to
measure the flow of six electrons per sec-
ond. They go on to explain that if the six
electrons per second are considered as that
many drops of water, then the number of
electrons flowing in-one minute through the
usual 50-watt incandescent lamp equals the
number’ of drops of water that flow over
Niagara Falls in 100 years.

New York—(IP)—President Wilson, dur-
planned if defeated
to resign and put his Republican. opponent
into office immediately after election to fa-
cilitate the nation’s efforts in the World War
crisis, according to a revelation made here
last week by Joseph Tumulty, secretary to
the war-time President.

The plan, Tumulty revealed to the United
Press, was to prevent the customary delay
between the date of election and the date of
inauguration of the President on March 4
which, in time of crisis, might delay and
handicap the government.

Tumulty said Mr. Wilson planned to ap-
point his opponent, Charles Evans Hughes,
now Chief Justice of the United States Su-
preme Court,.to the post of Secretary of
State in the event the Republicans won.
Then the. President and Vice-President
would have resigned, automatically placing
the Secretary of State in the White House.

Minneapolis, Minn.—(€P)—When~ the stu-
dents of the University of Minnesota pre-
sented “The Streets of New York” it was
discovered that they were shy some smoke
for the big fire scene.

They consulted the National: Guard and
got some real militia smoke bombs.

When the fire scene arrived on the open-
ing night, things really began to happen.
Clouds of smoke belched over evening gowns
and spotless white shirt-fronts; fumes filled
the noses and eyes of a choking audience.
The curtain was rung down and the guests
departed.

The National Guard had failed to explain
that the bombs used were enough to lay a
smoke screen on a small army, over a 46-
acre field. /

Boston, Mass.—(IP)—Former President
Calvin Coolidge is getting sick and tired of
being “appointed” president of various col-
leges and universities about the country.

So the following letter from him was pub-
lished last week in the Boston American:

“IT never heard of any proposal that I
should be president of New York University
until I received your wire.

“If you newspaper men would state each
time that my name is proposed for some
position that there is no foundation for the
report you would always be right, and it
would Save me no end of trouble and cor-
respondence.

“With kindest personal regards, I am,

“Calvin Coolidge.”

Williams Bay, Wis.—(IP)—A fantastic
theory, which has bothered astronomers for
scores of years, that comets are thrown off
by planets, may be proven or disproven in
the next few. days of this month if the lost
“Comet of 1866 One” makes its scheduled
appearance in the local heavens.

The comet, also known as Temple’s Comet,
was found: in 1866, and was due to return

in 1899, It failed to show up, and now at

He has a life appoint-’

the end of another 33 years astronomers are
looking for it again.

Just how the sighting of the comet may
aid in the proving or disproving of the
strange theory of the origin of comets, was
explained by Dr. G.»Van Biesbroeck of the
Yerkes Observatory of the University of
Chicago:

“Last year the rather fantastic idea of
a recent origin of comets, these being pre-
sumably ejected all the time from the sur-
face of the major planets, was proposed
again by the Russian astronomer, Vsessviat-
sky. It is not a new idea. This theory
lacks so far any direct proof.

“It could be tested if the orbits were so
well determined that it would be possible
to compute the paths so far backward that
their origins’ could*be"tratéd to some planet.
Hence the interest in securing accurate orbits
for periodic comets in general and more es-
pecially that of ‘Comet of 1866 One.’

“The. French astronomer, Le Verrier, dis-
cussing observations in 1866, notiéed that
this comet may ~-pass close to the distant
planet, Uranus, at times, and it was sup-
posed the planet had ‘captured’ the comet,
so that it became a permanent member of
the solar system.”

Cambridge, Mass.—(I1P)—Because so many
young executives desirous of special train-
ing have lost their jobs recently, Harvard
University’s School of Business Administra-
tion has decided to hold an “emergency”
session beginning January 30 and lasting un-
til August 16.

The students at this special session will
have the same classroom instruction as those
who began at the regular term, and will be
allowed full academic credit for their work
when the year is completed, allowing them
to enter the regular college courses in the
fall.

Minneapolis, Minn —(IP)—Frank McCor-
mick, athletic director at the University of
Minnesota, has filed a protest with North-
western University over the use of a sys-
tem of telephone communication between
press box and dugout which he said North-
western used in the game in which it de-
feated Minnesota 7 to 0,

McCormick said two Northwestern ob-
servers from the vantage point of the press
box communicated every important detail of
play including a careful analysis of Gopher
weaknesses, to the Wildcat coaching bench.

Evanston, Iil.—(1P)—Northwestern Uni-
versity’s football coach, Richard Hanley,
when asked about the press box-dugout com-
munication, said that the system had been
in use at Northwestern for three years and
that he ‘could see “nothing unethical about
his
“The principal value of the system,” he
said, “is to get a better idea of the physical
fitness of our players.

“I am quite sure that other members of
the Big Ten employ the same telephone sys-
tem.”

Clearwater, Fla—(IP)—Florida thinks it
O. K. for California to get plenty of pic-
tures in school geographies—just so Florida
gets as many pictures.

This, at least, was the substance of a pro-
test raised here against the use in local
schools of a geography textbook carrying
25 illustrations of California activities and
only four of Florida. The protest was filed
with the Chamber of Commerce by H. H.
Constantine, Jr., district school board mem-
ber.

Constantine said that he had no objection
to the display given to California, but that
for a book to be used in Florida schools it
under-emphasized Florida activities.

Chicago—(IP)—After being closed for
seventeen years, Chicago’s “beer college’ is
again opened, with students at work over
textbooks and in the laboratory.

The. Wahl-Henius Institute of Fermenta-
tion started its first term since 1915 with
19 students in attendance. In an opening ad-
dress to his students, President Max Henius
said:

“What has the future in store for us? The
revival of the brewing industry in the United
States!”

Courses in chemistry, bacteriology, yeast
culture and refrigeration are on the curric-
ulum.

Williamsburg, Va—(IP)—The friendship
of Latin American republics toward the
United States is far tiiore important for
America than is our own friendship to them,
Dr. Leo S. Rowe, director-general. of the
Pan-American Union, said at the sessions
of the Institute of International Affairs at
the College of William and Mary here re-
cently.

He said that the Argentine-Mexican res-
ervations in the League of Nations against
the-Monrgé Doctrine was indicative of dis-
repute of Monroeism in Latin America.

London, Eng.—(IP)—At a London med-
ical exhibition which was opened here last
week an elixir of life was shown, the inven-
tion of an Italian physician, which, it is
claimed, will add ten years to the life of an
old person.

The physician is said to have spent 20
years of research in perfecting the elixir,
which consists-of solutions of gold, platinum,
palladium, brain extract, iodine, formic, acid,
phosphorous, and a number of other ingre-
dients.

It is claimed by the inventor that the com-
bination, to be taken in very small portions,
can arrest the decay of the human body,
and he asserts that he has treated some of
the world’s wealthiest persons with His
elixir.

Bethlehem, Pa.—(IP)—Contrary to fears
expressed at the opening of the college year,
Lehigh University students have discovered
that it will not be necessary to drop any of
the regular intercollegiate sports, at least
not for the present.

In a poll of the students, taken by the
Brown and White, undergraduate newspa-
per, at a time when it was expected some
sport might have to be abandoned, it was
found that cross-country running was the
least popular, and it is probable that if the
income of the student athletic association
drops materially during the year cross-
country will be the first sport to be aban-
doned.

The voting of the students showed the
campus favored college sports in the follow-
ing order: football, wrestling, basketball,
swimming, track, lacrosse, soccer, tennis,
and cross-country.

Cambridge Mass.—(IP)—As a result of a
national survey, Professor F. T. Spaulding
of the Graduate School of Education at
Harvard University has recommended that

established throughout the country. sve

He said: “This system has shown itself
definitely more serviceable in the’ improve-
ment of school practice than has the conven-

tional form of organization.”

The national survey was made by ‘the
United’ States Office of Education.

Aberdeen, S. D—(IP)—The outstanding
feature ,of the annual home-coming, or
Gypsy Day, at Northern State Teachers Col-
lege here this year was a buffalo barbecue.

The barbecue was a two-year-old steer
buffalo.

A number of South Dakota state officials
attended the event.

Huntington, W. Va—(IP)—Drilling is to
start soon on the Marshall College campus
for gas, several wells of which have been
blown in within the city limits in the last
few months.

If a paying gas well is brought in on the
Marshall campus, according to President
Shawkey, the cost of fuel at the college will
be greatly reduced.

Flagstaff, Ariz—(IP)—An annual event at
the Arizona State Teachers College here is
a-trip to the Grand Canyon by the members
of the’ Freshman-class. This year college

the junior and senior high school system be |.

ROY’S 92-YARD RUN GIVES
STATE WOLFPACK VICTORY

(Continued from page 3)

their third drive but was halted on the Wild-
cats’ 10-yard marker after a gain of approxi-
mately 50 yards. Davidson gained consider-
ably but was forced to kick. A penalty on
the play, however, gave them a first down,
and with the ball on their own 40-yard line
began passing. McQuage intercepted in mid-
field and raced to the ’Cats’ 20 before being
stopped. Here the game ended after the
first play of the next series, McAdams
fumbling and Isaacs recovering for the Wolfs
pack. Tra

The Davidson Wildcats played the best
game Of ball they have played this year in
this game. Playing against a team much
heavier and suffering the loss of several of
their best men, they held the White Shirts
scoreless for three MER and then scored
first.”

State Position Davidson
Stephens ---------- 1 Morgan
Troshkin 4------...- DTyeeccaces ats Wagner
Stanko: ssess2sssase BiG essscvescucde Ogden
Espey (c) -------- Gentétsic2-222 McElrath
Mull sews oussesaee RiGiecene sega ss Rives
Daughtry eRe ecssccees Whitfield
Grgason Renee seesees Morris
WiASOI Sctcccsucees QIBiSecensesee Peabody
Baileys cecuous Zan sae |) 5 Geena eeese tir ‘Pearce
Bohannon ~-------- Ronee sciucads Mackorell
REX sec cseeteeueeee RiBS2sse sees Willson

Sewing: Touchdown, Roy (sub for Bohan-
non). Extra point, McQuage (sub for Wil-
son), placement. Field goal, Peabody, place-
ment. :

Officials:, McGoffin (Michigan), referee;

| Perry (Sewanee), umpire; Hackney (North

Carolina), head linesman.

Betas Are Victors in
Football Tournament

In the final game of the inter-fraternity
football tournament the Beta Theta Pi eleven
defeated the Phi Delta Theta 6 to 0 to win
the championship for the fourth consecu-
tive year.

The first half of the game was played with
neither team threatening very seriously, but
soon after the second period opened, a pass
from Richardson to Smyre was good for
the only touchdown of the contest. The
Phi Delts rallied in the closing minutes
and came near scoring when Glasgow raced
50 yards only to be run out of bounds on
the five-yard line.

The Betas defeated the K. A.’s in the
first round, the S. A. E.’s in the second, and
drew a bye to the finals, while the Phi
Delta Thetas downed the T. U. O.’s in the
first round, drew a bye to the semi-finals,
and in them defeated the Pi K. A.’s.

As a result of the tournament the Betas
get 20 points toward the inter-fraternity ath-
letic cup, the Phi Delts 15, the Pi K. A.’s
10, and the Kappa Sigs and the S. P. E.’s
two and one-half each.

Members of the winning team were Taylor,
Miller, Halverstadt, Smyre, Richardsea,
Bethea, Beacham, Pratt-Thomas, Coffin, and
Balsley.

finances made it necessary for the Fresh=
men to finance the trip themselves.

Danville, Ky—(IP)—In a front page edi-
torial the Centre College Cento has called
on the Inter-Fraternity Council at Centre
to take immediate action on the “pressing
fraternity problems,”

“Hell Week,’ says the editorial, “needs
abandoning, deferred rushing should be
adopted, inter-fraternity relationships must
be put on a new basis, fraternity politics
(and hone -frat politics, too) need a thorough
clean-up.”

‘The editorial accuses the Council of do-
ing very little in the past to “justify your
existence,” and calls for immediate action.

Ottawa, Kans.—(IP)—The Ottawa Univer-
sity publicity bureau is sponsoring a snap-
shot contest for students, offering three
prizes for the best snapshots of student and
campus activities to be used next year in the
proposed publicity campaign to be carried
on by the university.

Newark, Dela—(IP)—Agriculture,as-rep-
resented at the University of Delaware, is
bad: off this year.

At least, this appeared to be the fact when
it developed that only eight new students
entered the. university’s time-honored but
poorly-patronized Agriculture School, the
existence of which is necessary if the uni-
versity is to receive state and national ap-
propriations.

Inasmuch as the agricultural courses are
not required, but courses in military train-
ing are required of students, the University

of Delaware Review, undergraduate newspa-

Big Five Standings

WL 1 Rot

Dukes sesc8e see 2 0 O- 1.000

Carolina; 22-63.) 1 0 1 1,000

ONC State 222005255 eel] 500
Wake Forest _____--- 0. le 2 000

Davidson ______----_- ()ers-() 000

Delta Phi Alpha

On Tuesday night, November 8, the
Delta Phi Alpha, honorary German
fraternity, held its initial meeting at
the home of Dr. G. R. Vowles. Plans
were made for the coming year. James
Wilson, a newly elected member of the
fraternity, was initiated into the group.

The officers of Delta Phi Alpha are:
Paul Brown, President; Campbell
Wildman, Vice-President, and Francis
Scott, Secretary-Treasurer.

per, suggests a plan to make the Agricul-
ture School a big succéss:

“Since military science and agriculture are
both prerequisites of a state university,” says
the Review, “we suggest that students be
given a choice between the two, instead of
being restricted ‘to the military. In other
words, each new student would be able to
decide whether he wanted two years of agri-
culture or two years of military. If this were
put into effect, the Agricultural School would
never have to complain again of a meager
“enrollment.”

+
