ELECTIONS
CONTINUE

‘ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

The Davidsonian

ATHLETIC TEAMS
MAKE TRIPS

Vol. XIX

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 6, 1932

No. 24

Paul Brown to Be Head
of Davidson College “Y”
For 1932-1933 Session

Powell and Morrow Serve as Vice-
Presidents for the Same Period

BROWN SUCCEEDS ENLOE

Splendid Work Has Been Done by “Y”
This Year

Paul Frederick Brown, Jr., of Atlanta, Ga.,

was elected president of the Young Men’s Chris- |
tian Association in the election held recently, |

There was a great deal of interest taken in the
“Y" elections this year and the occasion
important because the “Y" stands at. the
ter of the religious life of the college.

is

It has a larger influence in developing stu- |

dents in Christian character and training them
for Christian service than any other agency at
college. It is the student's closest contact with
active Christian and every year the
opportunity for rendering greater service is pre-
sented.

service

The newly elected president is a member of
the Beaver Club, Pi Delta Alpha, Delta Phi
Alpha, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, Eta Sigma Phi,
International Relations Club, Honor Roll, ser-
geant in Reserve Officers Training Corps,
winner of the gymnastic trophy.
nominated for president were Paul
Brown, Atlanta, Ga.; Robert Lewis McCallie
Chattanooga, Tenn.; Warren: Allston
McKeithen, Aberdeen, N. CC, and
Franklin Myers, Greensboro, N. C.

and

Those

Leland

Edward [L.. Powell and Rufus Clegg Mor-

row, Jr., were elected first and second vice-
presidents. Lyman Warren Clardy, Talladega

‘ rr $,. Te oe 4
Ala.; William Tipton Johnson, Charlotte, N.

C.; Edward L. Powell, Mobile, Ala., and Wil- |

liam = Mcellwaine Thompson, Richmond,

Va.,
were chosen by the nominating committee,
Those nominated from the floor were: Fred-
erick Riker Hellegers, Passaic, N. J., and Rufus
Morrow, Jr., Zitacuaro, Michoacan, Mexico.

It is believed that the “Y” has put over suc- |

cessfully its program so far this year. Improve-
ments have been made in the reading room and
the social center. Hundreds of Davidson men
have been sent on deputations and this has been
a great influence for good. The students have
had opportunities to hear some of the best
speakers in this section by means of the Sun-
day afternoon vespers. Speakers were obtained
also for talks on boys’ problems, vocational
guidance, and other timely matters.

Another beneficial feature of the “Y" is the
Sunday School teaching done by the boys who
visit neighboring churches and conduct classes
for about 35 Sunday Schools. The wholesome
results of the work carried on by the “Y” dur-
ing the past year cannot be estimated. A pe-
culiar thing in connection with the election Of
the “Y” president is that for the last. three
consecutive years the presidents elected have
all been natives of Georgia.

Prof. H. T. Lilly Speaks

to Winston-Salem Club.

§

“Michelangelo” Is Subject of Recent
Address Made Before Symington
Book Club

On March 23 Prof. H. T. Lilly spoke to the
Mary Symington Book Club in Winston-Sa-
lem, N. C.

With his particularly attractive manner of
handling his subject for discourse, he presented
as the topic of his talk for the
“Michelangelo,” one of the world’s old masters.

afternoon,

Departing from the usual trend when speak- |

ing of the old masters, Professor™Lilly_ gave
Michelangelo a personality by building up a
background for his talent and speaking of his
life specifically as a man of versatile talents,
equally as brilliant
as a great planner

as artist, poet, sculptor, and
of the city beautiful.

The speaker illustrated the varied talents of |

his subject by illustrations of a great number
of the outstanding pieces of work done through-

‘out Italy, by the artist. He spoke with interest

of the exquisite chapel decorations which he
developed in his native country and showed
pictures of a number of the decorations which
he discussed. \

cen- |

Charles |

Holidays Are Spent

In Different Places

Now that the greatly anticipated Easter vaca-
; tion has come and gone, it is time to listen to
ithe wild tales of those who struck gold mines,
and made journeys to distant points of inter-
fest. It isn't at all difficult to find out who has
}been anywhere, as they are only too glad to
| volunteer to inform you thereof, and in this way
let you know that the family exchequer is still
going in spite of the depression.
! Some of the incredible tales would do justice
‘to Mr. R. Ripley’s well-known column, In fact,
one Freshman came back with the tale that up
in New York he met women who were good
looking, and had. sense. This appeared to be the
{outstanding event of his trip, and unless he
lwent over Niagara Falls in a barrel, it prob-
ably was. However, New York was in full sway
\for the holiday season, and the Great White
Way shed its glare on many a Davidson stu-
dent, who was stepping out to something in-
tellectual like Eugene O'Neill's “Mourning Be-
|comes Electra,” starring Nazimova, or perhaps
| Ziegfeld’s latest effort at glorifying the Ameri-
can girl, “Hot-Cha.” More than likely the lat-
ter received the greater patronage from the lo-
Leal delegation. q
Gotham seemed to have put on a special treat
for the boys from the South, as two sophisti-
feated and worldly-wise Sophomores came back

to college with programs of several outstand-

ing stage successes. Foremost among these was:
!“The Good Fairy,’.starring Helen Hayes, who
has quite a following in Davidson due to her
cinema “Arrowsmith” and “The
| Sin of Madelon Claudet.” Alfred Lunt and Lynn
Fontanne to their Robert
IE. Sherwood’s “Reunion in Vienna.” Two  sa-
tirical musical comedies, “Of Thee | Sing,” and
the Music,” attracted a
from among the local travellers.

It was cherry blossom time in Washington,
and for those who stopped in the Capital City,
ithat metropolis had offered a of
!“The Chocolate Soldier,’ a musical comedy
taken from Shaw's “Arms and the Man.” The
music by The remainder
of the shows in Washington were mediocre, but
it was worth while to be in that city if only
ito see the cherry
their
Potomac.

A large number of “Weeds” took it) upon
themselves to travel to the

successes in

drew many newest,

“Face also following

production

wis Oscar Strauss.

trees in full bloom) casting

reflection into the greenish-blue of the

“Land of Flowers,”

land were rewarded by seeing the speedboat
races at Winter Haven. Then, too, it has been
rumored in these parts that the female of the
species grows very beautiful down in aligator
land, and that the “peaches” aren't all on trees.
ae the north wind blew through the Pied-

mont section, the Florida lads were swimming

(Continued on page 5)

Y. M. C. A. Sends Out

_ Seven Deputations
| y
‘John Howard Has Had Charge of
Deputations This Year

|
| Durine this past week-end the Davidson Y.
| M. C. A. sent out seven major deputations,
| The regular deputation to the Charlotte Y.
|M. C. Av was composed of Charlie Moore and
| Rufus Morrow. Moore led the younger group
lof boys, 11 to 14 years of age, and Morrow led
\the older group, 15 years and up.
| A special Freshman quartet attended a Con-
|cord Young People’s Conference. The deputa-
jtion left Saturday night, and stayed over until
| Sunday night. It was composed of David Mc-
|Lean, Hubert Morriss, Buddy and
Franck Tucker.
A deputation, held every first and third Sun-

Robinson,

day of each month, was sent to Sherrill’s Ford.
!Tom McLean preached the sermon, with Jack
Williams as leader of the service, and Tommy
Phifer as leader of the Sunday School.
Evening Belmont
Church Sam
Thompson preached, while Ed MeNair and Don

services at
led by
! ’

Presbyterian
were Preston. Leslie
Leeper furnished special music.

The Young People’s League at Center Church
was led by Frank Elverey and Tom Davis. Spe-
cial music was furnished by Grainger Williams
and Henry Hodgins.

These deputations represent a major part of
the work of the Y. M. C. A. here at Davidson,
‘and are considered by this organization to be
|of utmost importance.

John Howard,, who is student ‘pastor of the
chapel here in Davidson, has had charge of the
| sending out of the deputations during the past
| year.

“Foolishness” is Subject
of Bishop E. A. Penick’s
’ Forceful Vespers Talk

Bishop Penick Talked on Paul’s Doc-
trine, Called Foolish by the
Greeks

LEA LEADS VESPERS SERVICE

Music Is Provided by Don Leeper and
Ed McNair

Last Sunday evening at 6 o'clock the regular
weekly Yo M,C.
in Chambers Auditorium. The speaker of the
evening was Bishop FE. A. Penick, of Charlotte.
The service was led by William S. Lea of the
Senior read the lesson
from the sixteenth chapter of the Gospel ac
cording to Mark. Wayte Fulton of the Junior
class and William C. Matthews of the Sopho
more led in A’ violin’ solo was
given by Don Hl, Leeper, accompanied by ld
ward MeNair.

The subject of Bishop Penick’s talk was “The

A. vesper service was held

class, who scripture

class prayer.

W. S. Lea to Attend

The National Society of Scabbard and Blade,
honorary inter-collegiate military fraternity, will
hold its eighteenth national convention as the
guests of H, Company, 5th Regiment, at Wash-
ington University, St. Louis, Missouri, April 7,
|8 and 9,
|

More than two hundred delegates, junior and
senior cadet officers from the 84 chapters or
lcompanies, wal attend from forty-six states.
| The chapter ‘at Davidson, known as B Com-
|pany, Sth Regiment, will be represented at the
convention by William S. Lea, who was clected
delegate at a recent meeting.
| Major General Johnson Hagood, U. S. A.
!Commanding General of the Seventh Corps
Area, will welcome the assembly of student.
| regular army and reserve officers when the con-
| vention is the of the first
day.

opened morning

The purpose of Scabbard and Blade is  pri-
warily to raise °the standard of military  train-
ling in American colleges and universities ;

St. Louis Convention

}
|
|

|

|

obtained as vet,

Final Plans Are Made
For Commencement of.

the Graduates of 1932

Baccalaureate Sermon, “Y” Exercises,
Board Meeting, and Alumni Day
to Be Main Events

GRADUATION JUNE 2ND

Dr. Robert Fishburne Campbell Will
Give the Baccalaureate Sermon
on May 22nd

Plans for the commencement exercises of the
graduating class of 1932 are very nearly com-
pleted) The Y. M. C. A.
the

speaker has not been

final arrangement of va-

irious exercises has not been detinitely decided,
land there are other details to be attended to,

to | Rev. R

| ° ° . . ° oq: |
unite in closer relationship their military de-

| partments; to encourage and foster the essen

Foolishness of Preaching.” This was taken from | tial qualities of good and efficient officers, and)

L Corinthians 1:21. Our werd moron is derived
from the Greek word for foolishness. Phe tool
ishness referred to does not refer to the liter-
ary style, compelling power, or richness of
thought. Why is it foolish? The Greeks had
a doctrine of moderation in every phase of life,
Paul taught Christ’s rules, he
opposing the Greek philosophy.

so) when

Was
Paul taught
not
stand, so the latter thought it foolish
Many like the: anerent
Corinthians. They call thémselves worldly-mind
ed and practical, They are skeptical and phil
osophieal. To this group of people the teaching

somethnig which the Greeks could under

people of today are

of Christ is foolishness. An example of this is
in’ Christ’s command. to
The modern skpetics may coneede that this is
but they
chance of applying it to our national policy.
When statesmen attempt to establish this  pol-
icy, they are laughed at by the worldly-minded
people as being impraetical.

“love your enemies.”

possible among individuals, see no

Another of Christ’s teachings, “Blessed are
the meek,” is not believed in by most people
of today. Who wants to be meek ? That is often
considered a individuals.
Aggressiveness and leadership is usually con

sign of oweakness in
sidefed a desirable quality in men, The skeptics
of today ridicule meckness as unmanty and a
negative virtue.

Many think that the saying, “Whatseever ye
ask of me in my name, that will [ do,” is one
of Christ’s overstatements for the sake of em
phasis. The worldly attitude is that prayer is
“kidding oneself.” Many think that) prayer is
useful only in making us conscious of our needs
so we can do the work ourselves. But one great
theologian has stated, “Prayer is not
effort, Hut human-divine effort.” It is a giving
of consciousness so that we may be aware of
God's presence. :

“Whosoever will be my disciple, let him take
up his cross and follow me" is a teaching which

repels many and attracts others, The worldly |

(Continued on page 5)

Dean Rusk Praised For
Work on Oxford Teams

Rusk Member of Oxford’s Champion-
ship Lacrosse Team Which Was
Awarded English Athletic Cup

The Oxford University Lacrosse team recent: |

ly won the championship of England in this
sport. Dean Rusk, Davidson's graduate of last
year, is a.member of this team. In achieving
this signal distinction the Oxford lacrosse play-
ers conquered several colleges and universities
ff considerable merit. First, the group players
won the championship of South England and

soon after ‘Were awarded the cup designating
the proficiency in lacrosse of all English uni
versities. This cup, called the English Universi
tics Cup, is awarded annually to the team dis-
playing the greatest proficiency.

In the near future Oxford to the
champions of North England for the All-Eng-
land title. Whether not Rusks’ team will
be able to accomplish this feat is a matter of

is mect

or

speculation in England, and as a result consid-
erable interest is being evinced by English sport
lovers.

Dean has been frequently lauded by English
sport columns for his scintillating work on the

or er
team. Dean at the present is Easter vacationing |

in Paris, France.

human |

ito promote intimacy and good fellowship among

| Association,

but the main schedule has been settled The
program is as follows:

“May 22nd, 11 A. Mae-Bacecalaureate Sermon,
F. Campbell, D.D

May 22nd—P. M.—Y. M. C. A

May 3lst Joard,

June Ist

Exercises.
Meeting of
Alumni Day
Alumni

Alumni
(probably )

Meeting of

Council lac-

lthe cadet officers. Further, the society tends to julty Reception, Class Day Exercises.

| disseminate military information

Jamong the students and among the people of the

intelligent

| country in general.

| With the growth find influence of
ciety, the old proverbial hatred of military’ drill
| the regarding it as a necessary evil—is dying
away and the students of universities are be-
‘ginning to realize that military service is an
of citizenship and should he

obligation per

formed willingly, cheerfully and wholeheartedly,

The cadet elected to Seabbard and Blade must
Ihe an “officer and a gentleman.” Tle must pos

lsess the qualities of fidelity, ability, patriotism,

respect. for authority, courage, good-fellowship,
honor—all of whieh lead to success in any line

of work, military or civil. In short, character

jmembership.

|
|

Professors Attend
|
|

Local Professors Among Guests at th
Goethe Centenary

At the invitation of the German department

Harding, Foreman and Vowles, present or for-

Centenary at Duke

June 2nd—-Graduation Exercises.

Rey. Robert Fishburne Campbell, D.D., pas-

itor of the First Presbyterian Chureh of Ache-
this so- | ville, N.C;

will give the baccalaureate sermon

lon May 22nd, This exercise has heen inoved Sup

and ability are the sole basis for election to | Was the

| Asheville,

about ten days before the other ceremonies.
Dr. Campbell took his M.A. degree at Wash-

ington and Lee University in 1879. He then
went to Union Theological Seminary where he

eraduated in T885. Davidson College bestowed

fa DD. degree on hin in 1893, Dr. Campbell

at different churches

including Davidson until 1892 when he went to

Was pastor suc cessively

where he has remained for forty

years. He was appointed the James Sprunt lec-
turer for 1930 at Union Theological Seminary ;
founder of the Good Samaritan Mis-

| on at Asheville; Moderator of the General As-

|
|
|
|

|

lsembly of

the Presbyterian Church in 1927;

land member of the board of the Union Theo-

logical and the Montreat Norma!
School. He iS a Phi Beta Kappa man and a

member of Delta Kappa Epsilon, Dr. Campbell

Seminary

has written several brochures on different top-

elics and has published numerous addresses.

Final thes Ye Nise Gr as

speaker have not been definitely made as this

arrangements for

Issue goes to press.

The following classes will hold) reunions on

| .
jof Duke University, Professors T. W. Lingle) yin Day, June Ist: 1928, 1927, 1926, 1925,
|

jet teachers of German at Dayidson, attended
jt
|
j day,

he Goethe Centenary at Duke University Tues-
March 29.
jother colleges of North Carolina, and several

There were also guests from

ifrom as far away as Winthrop College of South
| ¢ arolina.

The
philosophy

honor
the

at

was the professor of

of

guest

University Breslan,

|

I |

|

|Geheimrat Prof. Dr. Eugen Kuehnemann. Pro- |

fessor Kuchnemann is a distinguished appear-

| ing, genial, cultured German gentleman of the

idiences. He has lectured as exchange profes-
| sor at Harvard and Wisconsin, and though he
| speaks with a slight accent, his command. of
| Iénelish is such that he uses no notes and waxes
leloquent in our language, He is the author of
| fifteen books in the fields of philosophy and
Hliterature, his latest work being a brilliant two
}yolume work on Goethe.

| After luncheon at the Duke Union, Profes
jsor Clement Vollmer of Duke introduced Pro-
Kuehnemann, characterizing Gerhard
Hauptmann (who recently spoke at Columbia
| University) and Professor Kuehnemann as the

| day. Pre fess vr

| fessor

two principal spiritual leaders in Germany to-
Kuechnemann spoke on German
|
jexpert knowledge
lsaid. made the Germans realize two defects in
their education, first, too great self-satisfaction
and failure to understand other peoples and,
sceond, too great a gap between the educational
opportunities of the “common people” and those
of the so-called upper classes. Reforms in pres
cnt-day education are aimed in the. direction of
overcoming There
one sad feature. In spite of the warnings that
opportunities for educated men are limited, there

these defects. is, however,

has been an unprecedented rush to the univer-
sities, with the result that there are many young
men with degrees who can find nothing to do,
or have to do work of common laborers. There
is a great mass of “Jugend ohne Aussicht,”
youth without prospects. A factor in this is
that opportuny ts for Germany’ along her east-

H (Continued on page 5)

old school, who captivated the hearts of his au- |

leducation of today, disclaiming, however, any |

of the subject. The war, I opcttal Pornination his tac ie Gol i wen

1909, 1908, 1907, 1890, 1889, E888, 1887, 1882, and
1931. The class of 1907 will hold its first re-
union ina quarter of a century. It will be the
fiftieth reunion the of 1882 and the
first for the class of 1931, The Alumni Council
will hold meetings night and
Wednesday morning. The Alumni Association

will have a luncheon at 1:00 p. m., June Ist,

for class

ou ‘Tuesday

followed by a meeting.

Dr. J. M. McConnell May
Be Candidate For Senate

Col. T. L. Kirkpatrick of Charlotte Is,
Only Announced Candidate
Thus Far

Dr. J. Moore MeConnell, well-known David-
son professor, may be drafted as a Democratic
candidate for the State of his
Charlotte and Davidson friends--said sometime

Senate, several
last week.

Although Dr. MeConnell, who is professor
of history here, has made no statement of any
kind relative to making the race, it is knewn
that he has considered it and may make an an-
nouncement soon.

The only announced candidate tor the sena-
Kirk-
Charlotte, although several others
have been mentioned as possible candidates.

Dr. MeConnell Davidson
College, and took his doctor of philosophy de-

patrick, of

is a graduate of
vree at the University of Virginia. He has been
connected with summer camps for boys and
business enterprises. For about» 20 years he has
been outstanding as a professor at Davidson
and during summer terms at other institutions.

A Charlotte friend pointed out that Dr. Me-
Connell’s training in political theory and econ-
omy, his practical business experience, and wide
contacts qualify him well as a candidate for the
State Senate. Dr. J. M. Douglas, fellow pro-
fessor at Davidson, said he believed Dr. Me-
Connell could easily obtain leave of absence

from classroom duties during the legislative

|term should he run and be elected.
