EXAMS NEXT
WEEK

The Davidsonian

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

ONE MORE
ISSUE

Vol. XIX

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C, MAY 11, 1932

No. 29

Court of Control Members
For Next Year Are Selected

Eight Men From Various Classes Will

Assume Duties in Fall
FLINN APPOINTED JUDGE

New Judge Is Outstanding in Various
Lines of Endeavor

At a recent meeting of the Student Council,
Bill\ Flinn was appointed judge of the Court
of Control for the coming year to succeed Cal-

vin Kuykendall, judge of this year’s court. The | : :
jas He entrusts her to the care of John, His
{beloved disciple.

court is appointed annually by the Student
Council and is composed of a judge and seven
members, representing the three upper classes.

The Senior members are Bernard, Dickerson, |

and Wright. Junior members chosen are Coving-
ton and O'Keefe, and the Sophomorese“Hutch-
ins and Hufford.

It is the duty of the members of the higher |

classes of the student body to report violations
of Freshman regulations to the court, or to rec-
emmend that certain men be summoned for
needed advice. In deciding cases and in pass-
ing judgment, each member of the court has
an equal vote. Any decision rendered by the
court is fully supported hy the Student Council.

The new judge is a member of Kappa Alpha
social fraternity, a member of the varsity foot-
ball team, varsity track team, and is president
of the honorary French fraternity. He is also
on the “Y” Cabinet.

In 1923 the Court of Control was established
here and has continued as an active and influ-
ential body. It is the duty of this group to
guide the incoming Freshmen in their relations
With 'the upperclassmen. It is more than a dis-
ciplinary group, for a great many times it offers
quite helpful advice. It prescribes . Freshmen
regulations by which the class is governed, The
regulations for the 1932-33 session will be prac-
tically the same as those of this year with a
few minor changes. This year the court, under
the judgeship of .Calvin Kuykendal, has suc-
ceeded in reducing the friction between the up-
perclassmen and the freshmen to a minimum,

The members of the outgoing Court of Con-
trol are the judge, C, W. Kuykendall, the Senior
members, Bradshaw, McConnell, and O'Hanlon
the Junior members, Grant’and Mackorell, and
the Sophomore members, Manson and O'Keefe.

Professors Attend
Academy of Science

Doctor Arbuckle, Professors Fulcher,
Porter and Thies Are Faculty
Members Attending

Gare ae ae eet eo
) iS vas held at Wake
Forest College on May 6th and 7th, and the
attendance this year. was unusually large. Doc-
tor Arbuckle, Professor Porter,
Thies, and Professor Fulcher are the
ot the Davidson faculty who attended
the sessions, which began Friday morning and
lasted until Saturday at noon, many papers of
research and discussion were read. As_ usual,
those on Biology were in the majority.
Among the most interesting exhibits were
those on the production of rayon, the photo-
electric cell, early maps of Florida, staining of
cells, and new pieces of laboratory apparatus.
The president of the academy for next year
is Doctor Bullitt of the University of North
Carolina. Professor Porter has served several
years on the executive committee. Doctor Ar-
buckle has served for a similar period on the
nominating committee and on the committee on
the award for the best essay on Biology from

(Continued on page 6)

Professor
members
During

Manson Appointed

At a meeting of the Publications
Board last week, A. M. Manson, of
Jacksonville, Fla., was appointed busi-
ness manager of the Davidsonian for
the coming) year. He received this po-
sition upon the resignation of W. A.
Mebane, Jr., from|the office.

Manson, a member of the rising Sen-
ior class, is a member of Sigma Alpha
Epsilon social fraternity. Besides this
he belongs to the varsity basketball
squad and plays on the varsity golf

team.

{have Mother’s Day?”

Huie and Kuykendall
Conduct “Y” Vespers

At the regular vesper service last Sunday
evening a Mother’s Day program was giyen by
the Davidson Y, M,. C. A., with Lynn Huie and
Ed Kuykendall as speakers. Leland MeWeithan,
a member of the “Y" Cabinet, led the services
He read as the scripture lesson, John 19 :24-27,
showing Christ's love and care for His mother

George Pardington, accompanied by Ed Me-
Nair at the piano, rendered a yocal solo. He
sang a song appropriidte to the occasion entitled,
“O Little Mother o° Mine.”

Lynn Huie made the first talk, placing em-
phasis upon the two questions: “Why do we
and “What can it mean
to us?’ He discussed its origin. First of all he
turned back-to—Greek mythology, mentioning
Rhea as the mythical mother of all the gods,
and showing that she was honored accordingly
hy the Greeks. The speaker placed special em-
phasis upon the motherhood of Mary, our Lord's
mother.. Coming down through history he re-
called to our minds that Abraham Lincoln said,
“All that Iam and ever hope to be I owe to my
mother.” Henry Grady, the great orator, was
mentioned as another who realized the value of
his mother’s guidance, Huie also stated that the
establishment of Mother's Day was effected
through the influence of Miss Jarvis, a young
woman who, having lost her mother, devoted a
day to her memory. She became interested in
setting a day out of the year as a mother’s day
for all the United States, and began seeing
important men, trying to interest them. in her
idea. As a result of her efforts, Woodrow Wil-
son made-the proclamation on April 9, 1911, that
the second Sunday in May would be set aside
all over the country as Mother’s Day. Huie
closed his talk with the thought that we ought
to make every day Mother's Day.

Fd Kuykendall, the second speaker, at the
outset, said that his purpose was “to tell a
story and to paint a picture.” His story was of
a country boy whose poor mother and father
sacrificed everything to send their son to col-
lege. He continued, and the boy in the spring
of his senior year was a prominent leader on
the campus and an outstanding man. The old
parents decided to go to see him, and went to
the college in their dilapidated buggy. It was a
house party week-end and the ungrateful boy,

ashamed of his parents who had given him
everything, had them informed that he was
away. His old mother and. father found out

before they left that their sgn was in his fra-
ternity house. In spite of her great disappoint-
ment, the mother, her love still firm, defended
her son against the reproaches of the father,

(Continued on page 6)

Juniors in R. 0. T.C. .
Give Exhibition Drill

Don King Presented With Saber and
Grier Martin With Loving Cup

After the dismissal of the R. O. T. C. bat-
talion last Friday, the Juniors put on an exhi-
bition drill. This is an annual affair, and lasted
for a period of forty-five minutes with only
one rest. It was conducted by senior officers
in the battalion by turn, starting first with
Colonel King and going down to the captains
and first lieutenants.

Before this drill, however, Don King was
presented with the saber in honor of services
rendered as cadet lieutenant colonel. Grier Mar-
tin was awarded a silver loving cup for having
a company which excelled all of the other com-
panies in competitive drill and discipline. The
awarding of this cup and saber is an annual af-
fair.

There is always a great-amount of interest
in the student body aroused by the R. O. T. C.
unit at Davidson. It has now been in a prome,
inent position on the Davidson campus for a
good many years, and in this time has been
increasing in popularity and advancement. It
is with great regret that we look upon the end
of another year in military training, and realize
that next year will find our campus | depleted
by the loss of Colonel Scott, and these seniors
who have done much work in many fields, both
scholastic as well as military.

Statistics On Traveling
Habits of Davidson Men
Show Interesting Facts

120 Students, Selected From Student
Body, Cover 75,737 Miles in Six
Weeks

SENIORS TRAVEL MOST

“Social Visits” Account for Over Half
of the Departures

Of the 73,737 miles covered in six weeks by
120 men arbitrarily selected from the Davidson
College student body, 26,718 miles, or 35.1) per
cent of the total were traversed by “bumming.”
These figures, as well as much other interest-
ing data of similar nature, were uncovered in
a survey of Davidson students conducted by the
in at last) fall,
recently made public.

class statistics Davidson and

Over a period of six weeks, from September

16 to October 27, 1931, a weekly check was |

made on the various trips of 120 men, approxi
mately 20 per cent of the student body, to learn
the number of times they left the campus for
periods of more than one hour, the purposes of
their journeys, the duration and distance coy-
ered, and the means of transportation.

This data was then collected and tabulated,
and from this mass of facts, a very accurate
cross section of the traveling habits of David
men obtained, The time the
was as nearly an

son has been for

taking of this information
average period of the fall as could be secured,
and hence will hold true for almost any similar
period throughout the year.

Athletic contests during this time were such
that no unusual migrations would be caused by
them, Of the five varsity foothall games played
during the period, only one was near enough for
any great percentage of the students to attend.
Of the other four, two were played at Davidson,
and two were played so far from this point that
no one except players made the trips.

One interesting fact uncovered was that Sen-
iors make more trips thayymembers of any other
class. Each man averaged ten journeys of
more than one hour's duration during this time,
to give the fourth year men a comfortable mar-
gin in excursions over any other class, Sopho-
mores, on the other hand, stayed at home the
most, for they made only one trip a week, for
an average of six for the whole period.

The average number of departures per stu
dent, for the entire group, was 7.88, during. the
time the survey was made, or a little more than

one a week, The highest for any one man was }

37 trips away during the time, and there were
four others who made more than 20, However,
by far the larger number were below 10 for the

six weeks, and three men did mot leave Davidson |

a single time.

The total number of journeys made by the 120
subjects were 1,024. The average length of time
for each one was 12 hours, with the majority of
the men falling only two or three hours above
the average or much below it on their individ-
uak excursions, Only two men were absent for
more than 100 hours at any None
under one hour were considered.

one time.

An entire table of the report was concerned
with the reasons for each man’s trips, and the
time each reason kept men away from. their
regular duties. “Social visits, other than visits
to relatives” accounted for well over half of all
the departures from the hill. Six hundred and
seventy of the total 1,024 trips were assigned
to this category. However, these were of rela-
tively short duration, for they average only
nine hours in length, and the “medium” or half-
way figure of the group was 6.6 hours.

Business trips and visits to relatives were al-
most. equally important in the number of times
they appeared in the report. One hundred and
twenty journeys, or an average of one per man
throughout the six weeks, were for strictly
businss reasons. ‘‘Visits to relatives” was given
as the cause for 110, for third place on this list.
However, trips home lasted longer than any
others, except those for participation in athletic
contests, and each man averaged 26.1 hours
away from Davidson when he went home.

Less than 10 per cent of the total number re-
ported were for participation or observing ath-
letic contests. However, these trips demanded
much more time than for any of the other
groups. Athletes averaged 31.7 hours away from
Davidson for participation in games, and specta-
tors averaged 29,9 hours. The smallest number
of trips were for religious services. Only 26
times did men leave on deputations, and 24 of
these lasted Jess than five hours.

“Bumming” was by far the most popular

(Continued on page 6)

'Dr. Henry Louis Smith Speaks
At O.D.K. Initiation Ceremony

Musical Recital Given
By Famous Organist

Miss M.

most accomplished woman organist, gave a re-

Charlotte Lockwood, America’s

cital in Chambers Auditorium under the
pices of the Beta chapter of Mu Beta Psi on
Thursday, May 5, at 8:15 o'clock. Although an
hour short time in which to demonstrate
the potentiality of even an organ of the size

aus-

is a

of the one in Chambers Auditorium, Miss Lock-
wood’s varied registration of the pieces, which
she played verified the common belief that the
organ is the king of all instrunients,

The first number of the program was “Sonata
in the Style of Handel,” by Wolstenholme. The
second was the popular “Ave Maria,” written
by Arecadelt and arranged by Liszt. This selee-
tion was the outstanding one of the evening.
Next Miss Lockwood played a group composed
of “Anna Mareh” and
Bach. The latter of
technical, heautiful.
It was written in order to illustrate the power
of the organ. The fourth number of the pro-
gram avas “Andante Cantabile in Bo lat,” by
Taschaikowsky. This, all this
composer’s compositions, is marked by a note

Madgelena’s “Pocatta

and Fuge in D Minor” by
these, although

Was very

as well as of

of sadness which is a reflection of the artists
life. Wagner's “Introduction to Act III
‘Lohengrin’ was the fifth of Miss Loekwoo.l's
It was Horatio Park
er’s “Scherzo” from Sonato. The seventh num-
her was the famous “The Bells of St. Anne De

ot

! selections, followed by

Beaupre,” from Alexander Russel’s “St. Law
rence River Sketches.” Miss Lockwood's next
rendition was that of “I.e Coucou,” by D'Aquin.
The ninth number was Nevin'’s arrangement. of
Rimsky-Korsakoff’'s “Flight of the Bumble
Bee.” The unusual skill with which Miss Lock

wood played this piece was indeed remarkable,
of
| “Bereeuse”

Clarence Dickinson's compositions,
and “Memories,”
choice. Miss*Lockwood has studied under Mr.

| Dickinson and is therefore quite apt at inter-

Two

were her next

[preting his works. The final number on the
program was the “TFinale’ from Widor's third
forgan symphony. Throughout all the concert
Miss Lockwood held the attention as well as
the interest and admiration of her audience.

Immediately after the concert, Miss Lockwood
atid the members of the faculty with their wives
were the guests of the members of Mu Beta Psi
at an informal reception.

Senior Officers Are
Elected For 1932-33

New Men Are: Mebane, President;
Gwyn, Vice-President, and Bailey,
Secretary- Treasurer

In the recent Senior class elections, W. Blatt
Gwyn of North Wilkesboro was elected vice-
| president and Gegrge FE.
‘elected secretary-treasurer. The former was se-
lected from a group of nominees, Flinn,
Norfleet, Guerrant, Mackorell, Ogden and Gwyn.
The first ballot eliminated all but Norfleet, Og-
'den’and Gwyn, and the second left Nor fleet and

six

Gwyn in the race. Gwyn was elected on the
third ballot.
Bailey was chosen from four nominees,

Neil and Bailey. After. the
Jailey were left, and

3owles, Norman,
first vote Bowles and
Jailey was selected on the second ballot.

Gwyn is an outstanding man on the campus
both in scholastic and athletic fields. He made
his numeral in track in his Freshman year, and
this year he obtained his letter in that same
sport. Bailey is a member of the Pi Kappa
Alpha social fraternity, was manager of the var-
sity basketball team this year, is a member of
the Glee Club, and has made his letter in base-
ball. és

In the in the W.
Allen Mebane was chosen president of the class
for next year. The officers of the Senior class
this year were: J. H. McKinnon, ‘president;
A. G. Montgomery, vice-president, and H. C.

| McFadyen, secretary-treasurer.

elections earlier season,

| The present Junior class also elected recently
|six men to serve on the Student Council next
year. These men are: D. D. McBryde, J. R.
| Howard, E. B. Peabody, Robert Glasgow, E. B.
Cannon, and W. A. Mebane.

Zailey of Hickory was,

“Training for Leadership” Is Subject
of Address Given by Former
Davidson President

INITIATE NINE NEW MEN

Spring Initiation Services Attract
Many Students and Faculty
Members

At the spring initidtion ceremony on May 9
of Delta Cirele of Omicron Delta Kappa, na-

| tional honorary fraternity for leadership located

here at Davidson, Dr. Henry Louis Smith of
Ne Ga an address on
“How to Fit Yourself for Twentieth Century
Leadership.” This address immediately followed
the the
tapped.

These men are Willian. Rule, 111,

Greensboro, delivered

initiation of nine members recently
of Knox-
ville, Tenn.; Samuel S. Wiley, of Salisbury ;
Paul F. Brown, of Atlanta, Ga.; Jerome B.
Clark, Jr, of Fayetteville; O. Guer-
rant, of Pasadena,’ Calif. ; McCallie, of
Chattanooga, Tenn; F. Peabody, — of
Charlotte, ot Plant
City, Fla.

Dr. Smith is a former president of Davidson

Edward
Red;
Bruce
W. Pearce,

and Charles

and now holds the office of president-emeritus
at Washington and Lee
given the address itself:

“The first step toward effective’ leadership is
to fit one’s efforts and activities to his environ-
ments, lifetime
twentieth century American civilization.

“Let therefore, take a flashlight picture

University. Below is

and your environment is) our

us,

and failures.

Nivan pee

“Our American civilization has been brMliant-

Iv suceessful in studying, controlling, and util-

izing her natural environment, She has har-
nessed to her complex machinery the giant
forees of nature, has transformd human life

by her marvelous inventions, has conquered time |
and space and many hostile diseases, and in her
power, in food and. in creature-comforts, has
immensely enriched the human race.

“But, alas, in the guidance and control of our
human environment our modern civilization, es-
pecially in America, has made a disastrous. fail-
ure.

“During the past generation the professed
followers of the Prince of Peace have wrecked
modern civilization by a world-wide carnival
of hatred and slaughter and destruction. And
our beloved America is today horrifying the

(Continued on page 6)

Members Elected to
“Y” Board of Control

Glasgow Will Represent Rising Sen-
iors With Clardy and Huie for
Juniors

Elections were held last week in which five
new men were selected to serve on next year’s
“Y" Board of Control. Bob Glasgow was elect-
ed over Charlie Moore and Leland McKeithan
as the representative from the rising Senior
class. Lyman Clardy and Lynn Huie were elect-
ed as members of the Board from the rising
Jumior class. Others nominated for those posi-
tions were Bill Matthews and Sam Nickey.

sill Flinn and Bob McCallie, Junior members
this vear, will rémain on the Board next year.
Members “ex-officio” will be Rev. H. M. Mof-
fett and the “Y” secretary. Paui Brown, recent-
ly elected president of the “Y,” will also auto-
matically become a member. Members of the
Soard from the faculty are Professors Arbuckle,
Schenck, and Jackson.

The purpose of the Board is to manage the
finances of the “Y,” and to regulate its policy.
Every month the Board holds a meeting in
which its affairs are discussed, and, a written
report is made of its proceedings.

The Y. M. C. A, which has a governing in-
fluence on the campus, is controlled entirely by
the students, consequently the Board of Control
has an important task. The faculty members
are interested. and important partisans, but in
case they and the students should disagree, the
yote of the students would carry the issue. The
Y. M. C. A. has always been an integral part
éf the extra-curriculum activities due to the
interest shown in it by the students recently,
it is becoming a more important factor every
year. For this reason the new members of the
Board have been particularly honored in being
chosen.
