SN

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 10, 1932

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

‘FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

D. GRIER MARTIN Editor-in-Chief
P. M. CONWAY. Manag
EDITORIAL STAFF iano
E. O. GUERRANT. : .-.Managing’ Editor
D. D. McBRYDE. Managing Editor
R. ‘L. McCALLIE M. i Editor
CF, ERS Managing Editor
B. B. GG... Athletic Editor
D. G. STEPHENSON Feature Editor
Ww. W. ANKLIN. Feat Editor
H. W._ ERVIN. Review Editor
i E. LAKE Exchar Editor
. C, DWELLE, JR A i Editor
W. S. LEA A Editor
W. H. MATTHEWS. A te Editor
BUSINESS STAFF

A. M. MANSON...........-.,-----Assistant Business Manager
4. L. MEBANE... -----Assistant Business Manager
. W. WHITTED- ...--Assistant Business Manager
Wy, R. MORROW. Subscription Manager
W. T. JOHNSON Solicitor
+ ORS sNBAWeess52- 22322. Solicitor
i B. WOOTTON....-.-.- Solicitor
A. H. MANSON..-- ’ ‘

REPORTERS’ CLUB

A. H. WHITEHEAD. ..---President
PM. UAE S haadeugescctccccsusacacebenus Vice-President
Ww. BOM UTS Sirs ca scacencscocaveccsusges! Secretary-Treasurer

R. H. ALDERMAN ey F. H. COVINGTON

B. B. YLO L. S. GAMBLE

G. E, BAILEY - R. E. LORRAINE

g E. BOYD E. L. POWELL

P, PRESTON R, PRATT-THOMAS

W. R. R A, F. SCHENCK

O. CASALI W. M. THOMPSON

L. W. CLARDY, g® W. T. THOMPSON

JACK WILLIAM J. A. HUNTER

FEBRUARY 10, 1932

Certainly nothing is unnatural that is not physi-
cally impossible —Richard .B. Sheridan.

PARAGRAPHICS

Students will find it a pleasant sensation to have
the “Y” pledge paid up. The longer you wait, the
harder you will find it to pay.

iE

A brilliant Senior’s contribution to the recent ques-

tionnaire, “I do not choose to run.”
Se Ee

Captain Cochran has donated a batch of Chinese
newspapers to the Davidsonian. They were sent to
him by a friend in China. As soon as we get some
of the boys from the Far East to translate them
we will publish a true account of the state of affairs
in China.

JRC Cage Sa

Kuykendall’s talk on etiquette in “bumming” was
certainly needed. It has been suggested that it would
now be a good thing if someone would talk on the
subject of etiquette after the ride has been caught.

POE CHINE yi A EBUSES

In the talks.on Washington the faculty is present-

ing to the student body an excellent opportunity to

really learn something of the life of the nation’s
greatest man.

———— J)

Students will have the pleasure of hearing Dr.
Frazer, president of Queens College, at vespers next
Sunday.

ae iia ee
A GOOD JOB

The-Athletic Council can now sit back and take
things a little easier, having completed a good
job. The Council, since the announcement of
Younger’s resignation several months ago, has
been on the trail for coaches, first for an assist-
ant for Tilson, and since his decision to follow
“Monk” to V. P. I., for two varsity mentors.
And the Council may feel that it has been suc:
cessful in its attempt to secure two good coaches,
and also two men who would work well together
and with the student body. =

The Davidson student body, in its speech and
actions, has shown its approval of the action of
the Council. It is felt among the students that
these two men will be able to make the best of the
material that Davidson has, and that they will be
able to fill the shoes vacated by that great pair,
“Monk” & “Tex.”

The press has been full of praise of William
“Doc” Newton, new head coach here. His pos-
sibilities for the position have been known for
some time. He leaves behind him a good record,
having coached successfully at Birmingham-
Southern and Howard, played professional base-
ball with the Baltimore Orioles, and during the
last season contributed a great deal to the remark-
able success of the University of Tennessee foot-
ball team.

It is hardly necessary to say anything of Gene
McEver. It is well known that he has for the
last three-years been one of the outstanding backs
of the country, making All-American for two
years. It is enough to say that his coach at Ten-
nessee, Neyland, stated that he was the smartest
and the greatest football player that he had ever
coached. That is certainly the highest praise that
jan athlete could desire. Pointing to his success
is the fact that Tennessee had already signed him
as one of their backfield coaches for next year.

The student body welcomes these two new men,
and offers to them its wholg-hearted support. And
while welcoming new coaches, it might not be
irrelevant to wish “Monk” and “Tex” all the suc-
cess in the world in their new positions, ~

-

REGARDING THE QUESTIONNAIRE

That the results of the questionnaire offer a
true expression of the sentiment of the student
body in regard to certain vital questions is doubt-
ful. There is a likelihood that many of the an-
swers were made with very little or no thought
on the subject. But such a study at least :gives
us an idea of how the student body stands on
some of the most important topics under discus-
sion in the world today.

One fact which leads us to believe that there
was a certain amount of interest aroused is that
around 550 members of the student body filled
out the questionnaire completely. When we con-
sider the fact that there were a great many men

* absent on the day they were to be answered, we

see that this is a very good per cent of those who
were present.

An interesting thing to note is the majority with
which each question was decided in the affirma-
tave’or negative. It would ‘seem that the student
body thinks alike to a certain extent. Yet there
were some questions which had a rather large
minority, showing that there are plenty of men
at issue with the majority.

It was expected by many that the two lower
classes would vote almost unanimously against
R. O. T. C. training at Davidson. Although the
voting was closer than in the two upper sections,
there was a majority of the Freshmen and Soph-
omores who favored the course. The student body
voted four to one against the theory that R. O.
T. C. makes a man war-minded.

It was decided by a good majority that David-
son is in favor of the entrance of the United
States into the League of Nations, founded by
the greatest alumnus of this institution.

Another rather surprising fact was the huge
majority against total disarmament. It seems -that
the students do not favor the idea of our govern-
ment ridding itself of every means of- defense.
On the other hand, a good majority were in favor
of partial disarmament.

Regardless of whether this questionnaire. shows
the true feeling of the student body, it will cer-
tainly make some men think, and that is what is
most needed in this day.

?

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. Lake

Washington & Lee

There has been much controversy over the question:
Who does the song, “The Washington and Lee Swing,”
belong to? The manager of the Tulane band wrote
Washington and Lee a letter telling the university that
it was originally W. & L.’s and they were within their
rights to protest anyone else claiming it as theirs. This
letter was written after the authorities of W. & L. had
protested Rudy Vallee’s calling it the Tulane school song
when he played it on a national broadcast while he and
his orchestra were in New Orleans. Tulane, to avoid
confusion, is going to have a new school song written,
which will not be to the tune of the Washington and
Lee Swing.

This “Washington and Lee Swing” is famous all over

* the South and many high and prep schools have adopted

it as their school song. In thanking Tulane for the let-
ter and changing their song, The Ring-tuwm Phi “sincere-
ly hopes that the Green Wave will enjoy its school song
originating there, for Washington and Lee feels heart
and soul that she owns the Washington and Lee Swing.”
=
University of Georgia
Those Tech and Georgia boys are once more at it;
another feud seems to be on hand. In an editorial, still

. burning it is so hot, the Red and Black condemns the
Tech students for the manner in which their (Ga.’s) bas-_

ketball team was treated on a recent visit to the “Gate
City of the South.” At the basketball game the Tech
students booed the famous Catfish Smith while he bot-
tled up “the cocky Mr. Katz.” Tech, far-famed as the
“Golden Tornado,” was called the “Golden Breeze” by
this Bulldog. He said that at this game the Tech sup-
porters were in true Yellow Jacket form when they
booed “one of the greatest athletes the South has ever
produced.” We quote the concluding paragraph of this
editorial which was entitled, “Tech Cordiality” :

“Win or lose tomorrow night (this was Feb. 6), let’s
have the Georgia supporters show their true sportsman-
ship by overdoing the welcome, even though it is not
deserved by the boys who pound the anvils and consider
themselves educated.” y

From Georgia we find out that their Pan-Hellenics

* will be held April 15 and 16, with the possibility of

having the world-famous dance orchestra, Coon Sanders,
to furnish the music for the dancers.

: Emory
Eight undergraduate students were initiated into Phi
Beta Kappa, honorary scholarship fraternity, last Satur-
day night, six from the Senior class and two from the
Junior class. There were no alumni initiated.

Presbyterian College of S. C.

Recently the Blue Stocking, the newspaper of P. C,,
made application and was accepted to membership in
the National Scholastic Press. Association.

Their Pan-Hellenics will be held March 18 and 19, the
same time as our Junior Speaking.

Sewanee

This Tennessee school had quite an honor conferred
upon one of the organizations within the school. The
Sopherim chapter of Sigma Upsilon, mother chapter of
Si Upsilon, was awarded three of the five prizes
giveft by Sigma Upsilon and conducted among the forty
chapters. One man, Frank Dearing, won two prizes, the
prize for the play and the prize for the poem. P. W.
Lambert, Jr., won the short-story prize.

DES ENTREFILETS

“. . Of Ships & Shoes—
& Sealing Wax—
Of Cabbages & Kings...”

At present the eyes of the whole world are f ed
upon the Sino-Japanese situation. During the past
few months the trouble has changed from an invasion

of Manchuria by the Japanese, which involved only -

the bandits and the Japs and brought up no interna-
tional complications. However, within the last month
the entire situation has changed; it is no longer mere-
ly something to try the influence of the League of
Nations, it has become a question of international
rights and international interests.

Following a boycott of Japanese goods by the Chinese
in Shanghai the Japanese sent troops to this city ‘in
order to enforce what they claimed was a treaty. This
would not have involved the other nations of the world
had not the Japanese begun to use the international set-
tlement in Shanghai as a-base of operations. The inter-
national settlement was established by treaties and these
threw open the ports of China to the trade of foreign
nations. The best part of the city of Shanghai was
given to the foreigners. Here not only the United States,
Great Britain, and Italy have settlements but almost
every other country of any importance in the world.
France has her own concession which adjoins the inter-
national settlement. All foreign governments which are
members of the settlement have troops stationed there to
protect their interests in case of civil war in China.
However, it has formerly been the custom for a coun-
try before sending in additional troops to gain the ,con-
sent of all the other nations represented. Japan has, of
late, neglected to go through this formality. The inter-
national settlement has a legalized status which makes
the concession of the United States equivalent to Amer-
ican soil. So it is with every other nation. Thus if Japan
invades the international settlement, it is equivalent to
invading every important nation on the globé. This is
a situation which Japan must avoid or else they will
bring down the wrath of the nations upon their own
heads.

Within the last week the United States, France, and
Great Britain have all sent reinforcements to Shanghai
to protect their citizens and their interests. The United
States has approximately five thousand citizens located
in Shanghai.

The United States, together with Great Britain, France
and Italy, presented to the Chinese and Japanese gov-
ernments proposals for the cessation of hostilities and for
negotiations to settle all controversies between the two
countries. These proposals provided for the cessation
of all acts of violence, mobilization, or “preparation
for violence; the withdrawal of the two forces from
all points of mutual contact in the Shanghia area; for
the protection of the international settlement by the es-
tablishment of a neutral zone patrolled by neutral nations;
and for negotiations to settle the controversies between
the two nations in the spirit of the Pact of Paris and
the resolution of the League of Nations of December
9th, without prior demand and with’the aid of neutral
observers or participants. However, this was not a “de-
mand” for peace but merely a proposal which the four
powers hoped the Chinese and Japanese officials would
accept. Japan immediately answered that they accepted
the neutral zone arrangement but could not accept the
remainder of the proposal. Thus the whole of the pro-
posal fell through and matters are as bad as before.

All the while the Japanese are storming the area ‘

around Shanghai and unless the neutral nations inter-
vene they are sure to destroy the Chinese troops within
a very short time.

A rather amusing thing happened in
with the Sino-Japanese affair at Shanghai—amusing
since;no harm was done. A Japanese’ warship was
passing the plant of the Texas Oil Company. A group
of Chinese in the village behind the plant began to
shoot off firecrackers, which is customary in Chinese
religious ceremony. The warship, thinking it was be-
ing fired upon, opened fire with machine guns. Over

:
tion

‘fifty bullets entered the buildings of the Texas Com-

pany but no damage was done.

Andrew Mellon, who resigned as Secretary of the
Treasury a few days ago in order to accept the position
of Ambassador to the Court of St. James, has been the
object of many comments in the daily papers. Mellon has
received the blame for our present financial condition
and he was nobly defended by Will Rogers. Perhaps
Mr. Rogers is not aware of the fact that it was Mellon
who secured the low discount rate in 1926 in order to
aid the European countries. He was successful in this,
but he also started a movement of speculation and infla-

tion, the results of which we are still contending with

and shall have to endure for several years more.

According to Dr. Arthur D. Bevan, ex-president
of the American Medical Association, the doctors of
the United States are also bootleggers. In his testi-
mony before the Senate he stated that 90 per cent
of prescriptions for whiskey are for its use as a bev-
erage. s

Trustees of the Univetrsity of Illinois have announced
that they have no intention, for the present at least, of
sanctioning a policy which would permit students to
attend or cut classes according to their whims. They also
said there was little chance that the no-auto rule would
be abandoned at the university.

The New York University Daily News, undergradu-
ate publication, has merged with the Nite News, stu-
dent organ of the university’s Washington Square Col-
lege, which is now issued as an evening edition of the
Daily News.

The merger gives the combined ‘papers a circulation of
7,000, which is exceeded in the country only by the cir-

culations of the Daily Californian and the Carnegie Tech,

a weekly.

: A SOUTH SEA SPASM

In the stillness of the night time,

So many, many miles away,

I strive to forget, but pause to think

Of you, who should never have let

Me depart.

’Neath the spell of Southern clime,

Bathed in tropic moonlight, and the spray;
I see once more, in memory’s glass,

You, whom I’ll never again unclasp

From my heart.

The schooner nears the land of palm trees;
The silver surf is beck’ning me.
W-h-e-w!
The lurid ’chanment of the seas
Only makes me long the more to see
Y-O-U! ;
IN THE MORNIN’ MAIL

We don't know who that letter was from, calling for
our views of the modern girl, but here’s hoping that the
following will do: :

“PITY THE POOR IRKING GIRL”
ML,

A long-legged sheep in the Himalayas is able to run
40 miles an hour. That’s the kind of lamb to follow
Mary nowadays.

II.

The modern girl has been tried and found want-
ing—everything under the sun.

III.
This can be said in defense of the modern girl—she
dearly loves the spinning wheels.
: IV.

The question is not why girls leave home, but why
don’t they try to get back a little earlier ?°

V. »

She’s a rare modern girl if she wears the same face
during the day that she got up with in the morning.

VI.

There is one great difference between the girl of
today, and of the old times. The distinction is found
between “swooning” and “passing out.” -

VII.

A boyish bob, a cigarette, and knickers make a great
deal of difference. But they don’t fool a mouse.

VIII.

Time was when the girl who had nothing to wear
was out of style.

IX.

According to the Arkansas Gasette, women’s clothes
were never funnier—if brevity is’ the soul of wit.

x.

ALL THE OLDER FOLKS ARE FLAPPER-
GASTED!
XI.

Modern girls are fond of nice clothes, but they are
not entirely wrapped up in them.

XII.

Ann was certainly a smart girl—she started out
with Nichols and now she’s a millionaire.

XIII.

SHE WAS ONLY A TAXI-DRIVER’S DAUGHTER
BUT YQU OUGHT TO METER.

(Concluding Note) -

If you’ve managed to keep on reading this far,
congratulations! I hate to take up your time like this,
but you know the old saying, “There’s always room
for one bore.” That is my motto. With that I will
stop and hang out my “close” .. . “M.O.A.N.” (pro-
nounced sometimes,. “Mirth of a Nation,” but more
appropriately, “moan”).

The French government has given 50,000 francs to
Harvard University, to be used in “strengthening the
friendship between this country and France by spread-
ing the knowledge of the French language.” The inter-
est.on the fund will be used every two years to provide
a scholarship to some student in the French department
working for a doctorate who could not complete his
thesis without several months’ study in French libraries
or archives. ’

When the University of Wisconsin alumni dinner
was held at Philadelphia on the occasion of the Wiscon-
sin-Pennsylvania football game, the proceedings were
broadcast. Three times the broadcast was broken into
by the radio station® The reason: Three times profanity
was used by speakers at the dinner.
