’ v7
== | Che Dabidsonian | ==
CAROLINA 5 ALUMNI
Py AlendDa Lux Abi @rta Libertas

Vol. XX

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 9, 1932

No.9

DAVIDSON CELEBRATES HOMECO

MING §

ATURDAY

EXTENSIVE PLANS ARE
MADE IN EXPECTATION
OF RETURNING GRADS

Captain Pritchett to Address Alumni
and Faculty on “Athletics at
Davidson”

U. N. C. GAME MAIN EVENT

“Southernaires” and Glee Club Will
Give Program Saturday Night

On Saturday, November 12, the student
body, faculty, alumni, and friends of David-
son will join in the festivities of Home-
Coming Day. This outstanding day will wit-
ness a true social gathering of Davidson
men. Many alumni will return to their
Alma Mater to mingle with their former
classmates, and to make new acquaintances

among members of the faculty and student
body.

An interesting program has been planned
by the Home-Coming Day committee com-
posed of Professor Blythe, Mr. Jackson, Mr,
Hengeveld, and Captain Pritchett. On Sat-
‘urday morning, registration will take place,
and alumni and visitors will have the op-
portunity to see their friends and meet in
informal gatherings about the campus. The
large room adjoining the alumni secretary's
office will sefve as the registration head-
quarters and as the central meeting place.
The. students..will conduct: the visitors: about

the campus, and act as host in ever

: way
possible.

Members of the Beaver Cfub, lo-
cal Sophomore honorary organization, will
aid in the registration in Chambers Build-
ing.

A track meet is scheduled for 11 o'clock,
when both the Varsity and Freshman cross-
country teams will meet the teams from
Winston-Salem. At 12 o’clock, the alumni

(Continued of” page 8)

First Issué of Yow]

Several-Conspicuous Changes Were
Made in This Initial Copy

The first of the 1932-33 issues of the Yowl,
Davidson’s humorous magazine, appeared on
the campus last Friday, November 4, 1932,
and several improvements over last year’s
product were immediately noticed.

The-first and most conspicuous change was
in the size of the magazine itself, the num-
ber of pagés being the same as the issues
of last year, but both the length and the
width of the pages of this initial issue, as
the others, will be increased by approximate-
ly one inch, enabling somewhere near 100
more words to be put.on each printed page.
At the end of the session next June, the stu-
dents will probably have noticed that instead
of the usual three issues, there will have
been an additional one, bringing the total
to four. ‘

As one runs through the magazine, it will

(Continued on page 8)

‘Ten Men Are Chosen
to Wear Golden Quill

Ten men were selected by D. G. Martin,
retiring editor of The Davidsonian, and Al-
len Whitehead, former president of Report-
ers’ Club, to wear the Golden Quill. This
honor is awarded to those men showing out-
standing literary and journalistic ability.

The men from the Senior class..receiving
this honor are: E. O. Guerrant, C. F, Myers,
B. B. Sugg, D. D. McBryde, and Bob Mc-
Callie.

The Juniors receiving the’award are: Ly-
man Clardy, II, Jack Williams, Jr., Alex-
ander Schenck, Odi Casali, and William M.
Thompson.

E. O. Guerrant is editor-in-chief of The
Davidsonian and a member of the “Y” Cab-
inet. He belongs to Omicron Delta Kappa,
Delta Pi Kappa, Delta Phi Alpha, Interna-

(Continued on page 8)

st Week

Capt. Cochran Gives
Talk at Phi Meeting

Last Tuesday night a most interesting
program was held at the Philanthropic Lit-
erary Society meeting. The chief feature of
the evening was a unique lecture on the
Philippine Islands, where he was stationed
for a number of years, delivered by Captain
Cochran of the R. O. T. C. staff here. Cap-
tain Cochran spoke of the conditions there
from several angles. He told of the fortifi-
cations at Manila, which he illustrated with
maps and graphic charts. He discussed the
strength of the military units in the Islands,
and he explained the character‘ of the Fil-
lipinos, saying that on the whole they are
a likeable lot, but that they are totally un-
dependable in pecuniary affairs. He added
that the native military faction is extraordi-
narily efficient and would be in great danger
of showing up our local R.'O. T. C. unit were
they compared. He talked about the geo-
graphy of the land and said that the nat-
ural mineral resources were practically nil
except for a few minor gold mines which
are unworked, the principal product being
sugar. Captain Cochran continued on the
subject of the political situation in the Phil-

ippines and their relations with the’ Whited’

States. He stated that the local government-
al authority, the Governor-General, due to
the fact that he has continually made con-
cessions to the native parties, is now little

(Continued on page 7)

Sig. Upsilon Literary
Society Issues Bids
to Outstanding Men

Debate Is Feature as Six Upperclass-
men Are Initiated Into Honorary
Fraternity

On Friday, November 4, :six men, Gordon
Wood, Tom Wood, Edward McNair, Leland

McKeithan, Lyman Clardy

and Gordon

Brown—were-initiated into Sigma Upsilon,

honorary literary fraternity.

The main feature on the program was a
debate, the query being, “Resolved, That
Sigma Upsilon should throw its support into
the election of the Democratic nominee for
the Presidency,” the affirmative being taken
by Tom Wood and Edward McNair, and
the negative by Gordon Wood and Gordon
3rown. Leland McKeithan gave a burlesque
of the Democratic Keynote Address. Lyman
Clardy read an interesting and illuminating

(Continued on page 4)

Rev J. T. Pharr Gives
Gold Football Yearly

Best Blocking’ Back Is to Receive
Miniature Present Each Year

It was a beau geste indeed that Rev. J. T.
Pharr made .toward his Alma Mater last
Wednesday. Through his kindness and
thoughtfulness, the blocking backs of David-
son will have an added incentive to spur
them on in the future.

“Tim” Pharr has offered the best blocker
on the Wildcat team this year a gold, minia-
ture football, with a raised-letter “D” enam-
elled in red and black. Reverend Pharr has
made this a standing offer for the best block-
er every year on the Wildcat team, as long
as he lives. The coaches and the team will
decide at the end of the season'this fall the
man whom they believe has measured up
to- the specifications.

Tim Pharr was a member of the class of
1912, just twenty short years ago, He was
a member of the Wildcat team for two years,
in 1910 and 1911. He played the position of
blocking back, one of the most important
positions in the backfield. He played the
game loyally and well for twenty varsity
contests. Reverend Pharr is now the pastor
of the Cass Presbyterian Church, in Cass,
W. Va. Previously he jacted in the same ca-
pacity at Emmanuel Church in Winston-Sa-
lem.

Rev. D. M. Chalmers to
Begin Y Fall Services
at Church Next Sunday

Will Lead Chapel Monday and Tues-
day and Hold Services on These
Nights

GRADUATE OF DAVIDSON

Will Interview Personally Students
Who Wish to Clear Problems

Rev. Dwight M. Chalmers, pastor of the
First Presbyterian Church in Charlottesville,
Va., will arrive Saturday, November 12, and
will take up his dutitstiteading the fall re-
ligious services, sponsored by the Y. M. C. A.
The Reverend Mr. Chalmers will make his
first appearance on Sunday morning when
he leads the church services, and in the eve-
ning will”be the speaker at the “Y” vesper
services. He will lead the chapel exercises
on Monday and Tuesday mornings and will
speak at services in Chambers Auditorium
at 7 o'clock on these nights. Duringhis visit
here Mr. Chalmers will interview personally
the students who wish to up their
problems.

clear

The Davidson Y.-M. C. A. has been very
fortunate in securing Reverend Mr. Chalm-
ers, as he is a fine-Christian gentleman and
an excellent speaker. Mr. Chalmers is young
in spirit and understands the many prob-
lems which confront college students. In
the summer, he led the vesper services at the
Young People’s Conference of the North
Carolina Presbytery, and the meetings were
very impressive to the large number
young people who were present.

of

Mr. Chalmers is an honor graduate of Da-
vidson College and while here he was ex-
ceedingly popular. He was outstanding in
the many activities which he undertook, es-
pecially so in Y. M. C. A. work... Chalmers
was president of the “Y” and/after gradua-

(Continued 6n page 8)

Eight Men Initiated

Into O. D. K. Circle

Tom Glasgow of Charlotte Delivers
Principal Address of Evening

Tuesday night, November Ist, the eight
men tapped by the Delta Circle of Omicron
Delta Kappa were initiated. The guest-speak-
er of the occasion was Mr. Tom Glasgow of
Charlotte, well known throughout the South-
ern Presbyteriatty Church asa prominent
layman. :

The new initiates, B. E. Allen, U. B. Gard-
ner, W. A. Flinn, R. Glasgow, Jr., J. R.
Howard, A. M. Manson, W. F. Mulliss, and
C. F. Myers, were taken in at the formal

initiation at 7 p. m. in the faculty room in

Chambers Building. Many of the faculty
members were present along with various
graduate members of O. D. K. in the town
of Davidson. This initiation was followed
by a banquet in the banquet hall of Cham-
bers Building.«. +

The assemblage then moved back to the
faculty room and the address of the evening

(Continued on page 5)

Scabbard and Blade
Bids Prominent Men

Scabbard and Blade, national honorary
training fraternity, has announced its new
pledges, who. were extended bids at the pa-
rade on November 4. These intitiates are
as follows: Captain D. M. McConnell, Cap-
tain H. D. Cashion, Captain J. C. Penning-
ton, First Lieutenants W. W. Seymour, G.
C. Neal, and E. B. Cannon.

Major John C. Rhett, recently appointed
commandant of the Davidson R:-O:;°T. €.
unit, is also among the pledges of Scabbard

Sigma Delta.Pi Frat.
Forms Spanish Club

Sigma Delta Pi, national honorary Spanish
fraternity, has started the year off in a very
active way. Interesting programs have been
given at the weekly meetings. Since the
requirements are so strict for entrance into
Sigma. Delta Pi, ‘requiring at. least three
semesters of elective Spanish (which usually
eliminates men until the middle of the Junior
year), the fraternity has decided to insti-
tute a Spanish Club. A committee com-
posed of three members, Prof. F. K. Fleagle,
Fred Fleagle, and D. D. McBride, drew up
the following suggestions for by-laws which
were accepted by the fraternity and put into
effect :

1. It shall be one of the functions of
Sigma Delta Pi to establish a Spanish Club,

the members of which shall be eligible for |

election into Sigma Delta Pi, when they |
shall have completed. the necessary require-
ménts,

2. Membership into the-Spanish Club
shall be on nomination by faculty members
of Sigma Delta. Pi, and shall be limited to
such students as show an interest and ability
in the study of Spanish. A majority. of
Sigma Delta Pi members present shall elect
to membership, in the Spanish Club.

3. The officers of the Spanish Club shall
be the regular officers of Sigma Delta Pi,

(Continued on page 7)

Dr. C. Darby Fulton

Speaks on Japanese
Christian at Vespers

Mr. Kagawa’s Life Is Splendid Ex-|

ample of One Who Works for
Christ

Dr. C. Darby Fulton, of Nashville, Tenn.,
prominent leader of the Southern Presby-
terian Church and Executive Secretary of
Foreign Missions, spoke last Sunday night
at the Y. M. C. A. vesper services.

Dr, Fulton gave a biographical sketch of

that internationally -famous—Christian--work~-|

er of Japan, Mr. Kagawa.

Rufus Morrow led the service and Buddy
Robinson gave a vocal selection, with Ed
McNair at the piano. Lyon Gammon and
Avery Patton led in prayer.

Dr. Fulton began with carly
life and brought it. up to the present, end-
ing with a plea to the students of Davidson
remember this now but
valiant-missionary in-their- prayers.

(Continued on page 7)

Medical Students to
Take Aptitude Tests

Registrar Announces December Ninth
as Date for Examination

Kagawa's

to disease-ridden

The Medical Aptitude Test for students
preparing to enter a medical school next year

have been scheduled for Friday, December ,

9. Mr. F. W.-Hengeveld, the registrar, will |
have charge of the test.

These tests have been administered for the |
past two years by the Association of Med-|
ical Colleges. According to a letter received
by Mr. Hengeveld from Dr. F. A. Moss,
secretary of the association’s committee, the |
tests have now become one of the normal
requirements for admission to a medical |
school.

A total of 9,713 students from 537 colleges
in the United States took the Medical Apti-
tude Test last year. Fifteen of this num-
ber were from Davidson. Ninety per cent
of ‘the approved medical schools of the |
country considered the results of the tests’!
as a factor in the selection of their students,
Dr:-Moss-stated: |

All students who are planning to enter a|

and Blade.
Captain C. R. Wright is the leader of the
local chapter, the other officers being Cap-
tain Bruce Peabody, Captain Brooke Allen,
Major Fred Ogden. The members of this
(Continued on page 7)

medicat-schoot-in-1933—are—advised—-to—take |
the test. It is not necessary,.it was ex-|
plained, that all pre-medical requirements be;
completed at the-time the test is taken, pro- |
viding that the student is reasonably cer- |
(Continued on page 7)
/

f

DAVIDSON WILL CLASH
WITH TAR HEELS HERE
SATURDAY AFTERNOON

Wildcats Seek Vengeance for 12-0 De-
feat at Hands of Tar Heels
Last \ Year

With the sting of the defeat by N. C.
State still burning in their hides#the David-
son Wildcats have taken to their lair, and
are preparing an attatk to unleash against
the..Tar Heels of the University of North
Carolina in the annual Homecoming classic
on Richardson Field Saturday. A capacity
crowd is expected for the contest between
the ancient foes.

The Tar Heels bring a strong team to
Davidson, and are in high spirits over their
recent 18 to 13 defeatsof the speedy Flor-
ida ’Gators last Friday. However, the Flor-
ida team was minus the services of. their
star back, Rogero, Nevertheless the Tar
Heels are a team to be reckoned with.

The-rivalry between Davidson and Caro-
lina is an ancient one, and Carolina has a
decided edge in the “won” side of the ledger.
Last year a mighty’ Carolina team rolled over
a fighting Davidson aggregation at Chapel
Hill by the impressive of 20 to 0.
The game was far closer than the score in-
| dicates, however. The year before the Wild-
cats upset.the dope, and put it on the Chapel
Hill boys, 7sto 6, despite the great efforts
of Branch and Magner.

score

Carolina has a goad team, of which there
jis little doubt in the Davidson camp, and
Coaches Newton. .and MecEver are putting
their boys through stiff drills prepara-
tion for the Tar Heel invasion’ It is ru-
mored that Coach Collins may start his
shock troops in the Carolina backfield, a bit
lof strategy that worked wonders on the
| powerful State Wolfpack. More than likely,
|though, he will start Burnett at quarterback,
Daniel and Phipps at halfbacks, and Chand-
(Continued on page 7)

in

‘Three One-Act Plays

_ Given by Dramatists

| Red and Black Masquers Present First

| Performance of Year

A large and appreciative audience wit-
jnessed the Black Masquers’ pro-
jduction of three one-act plays last Wednes-
| day night in Chambers Auditorium, This
lis the Dramatic Club's first performance
| this year and shows indications of having
la most successful season. Music was fur-
| nished between plays by “Johnny Marvin
jand his Hotchaboys.”

The first of the series of plays was en-
| titled “Moonshine,” by Arthur Hopkins. This
a dramatic farce with the setting in

Red and

|
ese

(Continued on page 7)
|

| “Y” Deputations

Deputations from the Davidson Coi-
lege “Y” are more in demand every
_.week, and E. L. Powell, in charge of
this work, states that one is scheduled
to be sent out for each of the next
three Sundays. Next Sunday a group
will go to Concord to attend a young
people’s. meeting at the Presbyterian
Church there. This group will prob-
ably consist of two speakers and the
Sophomore quartet. On the twentieth
a trip to Charlotte will be made to
conduct the evening service at the A.
R. P. Tabernacle, and the following
week a body will again go to Charlotte
to the Steele Creek Presbyterian
Church, who will teach at the Sunday
School, furnish music for the morning
service, and conduct the evening serv-
ice: :
Last Sunday’a group of three went
‘to Cénter Presbyterian Church, which
is about seven miles west of Moores-
ville. Sam Nickey preached the ser-
mon and Harvey Glass and W. L. Fu-
gate taught the Bible classes.

