PI DELTA ALPHA
TO HOLD OPEN
MEETING

The Davidsonian

AlendDa Lux Gbi Orta Libertas

BROWN TAKES
SECOND IN
CONTEST

Vol. XX

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 16, 1932

No. 10

Fall Y Services Opened
With Inspiring Message
by Rev. D. M. Chalmers

Charlottesville Pastor Pictures Deep
Tragedy in Lack of Fundamental
Idea of Life

MEETINGS END TUESDAY

Chapel Services Given Over to Series
of Devotional Addresses

At the regular church service Sunday
morning, November 13, Dr. Dwight Chalmers
opened his Fall Evangelistic Services with
a wonderfully inspiring message, based on
an incident in the Book of Daniel. He chose
his text from the second chapter and ‘the
fifth verse, which reads, “The thing is gone
from me.” This remark is the answer made
by the King of Babylon to the question put
to him by his wise men, “O, King, tell thy
servants the dream and we will show the
interpretation thereof.” To Rev. Chalmers,
this scene.pictures the deep tragedy of aim-
less life—a condition which has become dan-
gerously commonplace in our modern exist-
ence. He draws a parallel between the
empty answer of that King and the equally
empty answer of present-day man to the
question, “What are your dreams?”

The man of today spends his time, his
money, his energies to achieve results, which,
when closely examined, are vague and in-
“definite. Today, more than ever, he is sur-
rounded by greatly increasing stimulants
which demand that he tell his dreams, voice
his ambitions; yet, how can he when “the
thing is gone from” him?

Dr. Chalmers compared the King and his
wise men to two great football teams, pre-
pared in every way to play a magnificent
game, but lacking the very thing that makes
the game real—a football, Here again, it is
where man has failed, where he has missed
the fundamental fact of life—that he must
have a well-established, worthwhile motive
about which to center his endeavors.

Very-applicable to business methods of the
times is this little drama from Babylon. We
have promoters and organizers enough—but,
promoting and organizing what? We are so
busy organizing that we fail to recognize
the one important thing that has given birth
to the organization. In school and home
we are encompassed by those who ask of us,
“Tell us thy dreams and we will give you
the interpretation thereof.” And if we are
honest, for most of us the answer would be,
“The thing is gone from me.”

Science tell us, says Rev. Chalmers, that
we have added from ten to fifteen years to
the average length of a man’s life; further-
more, we have enlarged by thousands the
number of inventions for the reduction of
labor. But, are we any happier than our
forefathers were? Have we in’ doing so,
found some great truth that makes longer
life any sweeter? Our speaker thinks not.
However, he hastens to call upon that figure
that has for centuries given hope and mean-
ing to human life—Christ. If we were to
ask Christ, “What are your dreams?” His
answer would be something like this, “I am
come that ye might have life, and have it
more abundantly.” Upon this he bases the
recovery of the world.

Reverend Chalmers continued his series
of talks in chapel Monday morning with
another inspiring address. He took as his
text, John 5:13, “Jesus had passed out un-
noticed, there being a crowd in the place.”
This text was taken from Weymouth’s trans-
lation, as Reverend Chalmers believes that
this version can be more readily understood
than the King James translation.

Mr. Chalmers showed in: his discussion
how we, in our time, have become “lost in
the crowd,” ani how we try to crowd so
many things into our twenty-four hours that
we lose the real purpose of life. He demon-
strated in many ways in which we are’ con-
stantly hurrying, always progressing, and
never thinking of the real aims of our exist-
ence. _He showed how our family life has
been affected by this trait ingrained in us,
how love and all that is sweet about family
life .have been made to take a second place
by our selfish aims.! The beautiful things of
life are lost in the crowd.

But—the—chief_loss. because of this trait,
as Reverend Chalmers remarked, is in re-

(Continued on page 6)

Pi Delta Alpha

Pi Delta Alpha honorary medical fra-
ternity will hold its first open meeting
of the session Friday evening, Novem-
ber 18th, at 7:30. Dr. Thomas D.
Sparrow, a Davidson alumnus and a
prominent surgeon of Charlotte, will
speak at the meeting. Dr. Sparrow
took his undergraduate work at Da-
vidson and then went to the School of
Medicine of the University of Pennsyl-.-»
vania to receive his medical degree. -—|

All persons interested in medicine
are cordially invited to attend this
open meeting as the guests of the fra-
ternity. The organization earnestly
hopes that a large crowd will be pres-

ent to hear Dr. Sparrow, as has been
the case in the past.

The exact place of the meeting’ and
the subject of the address will be an-
nounced at a later date.

BROWN WINS SECOND
HONORS IN SYMPOSIUM

His Speech on Hoover Wins Merit in
Political Debate

Gordon H. “Skip” Brown, representing
Davidson, won second place at the political
symposium held November 7 at Athens, Ga.
His subject was “Herbert Hoover.”

Mr. S, G. Elliot of Emory University won
first place and was awarded a silver cup.
He also spoke on Mr. Hoover. The Rollins
College representative, speaking on “Frank-
lin Roosevelt,” was.third,

This contest was conducted by the Uni-
versity of Georgia.
national election, it attracted a large crowd
of students, faculty members and townspeo-
ple. Undergraduate students from North
Carolina, Emory, Davidson, Georgia Tech,
Rollins and Georgia competed. The three
judges were distinguished men not connect-
ed with any of the schools represented.

The contestants were required to speak
extemporaneously for seven minutes on
Roosevelt, Hoover or Thomas. Not until
they were seated on the platform did each
speaker draw to ascertain about whom he
was to speak.

Besides achieving a fine record in forensics,

(Continued on page 6)

Held on the eve of the]

Six Men Are Chosen
in Debating Tryouts

The tryouts for the debating team of
1932-33 were held last Tuesday night, No-
vember 8, in the auditorium of Chambers
Building under the supervision of the Fo-
rensic Council through which the debating
team functions.

Three of the faculty members acted as
judges. These were Dr. C. K. Brown, Prof.
E. J. Erwin, and Dr. Price Gwynn.

Some 23 students were present as candi-
dates, each making short speeches on the
following subject: Resolved that all com-
mercial banks should become national banks
‘and thus a part of the Federal Reserve Sys-
tem. ;

At the final vote the original 23 were re-
duced to six on the regular teams with three
alternates. There were two Seniors, two
Juniors, and two Sophomores.

The two of the graduating class were
Leland McKeithan and Charlie Moore. The
Juniors were Hugh Hawkins and Rawling
Pratt-Thomas, while the representatives of
the class of ’35 are Skip Brown and Bob
Smith.

No debates will take place until the-second
semester and between the present and the
time when they begin, three teams, consist-
ing of two regulars and one alternate, wil
be chosen from the above names. Two of
the most outstanding debates will take place
with the University of. Georgia and Rollins
College. Rollins is to debate with the Uni-
versity of Dublin on a national hook-up over
WEAF. :

The schedule of the debates will be sub-
mitted later.

Fraternities Sponsor
Successful Parties on
Davidson’s Alumni Day

Many Guests Arrive for Socials and
Football Game Over Week-end

a a

TWO CHARLOTTE SOCIALS

Davidson Wildcats Play Carolina Foot-
ball Team on Saturday Afternoon

The house parties given by the social fra-
ternities over the past week-end in con-
cordance with the annual Homecoming Day
proved to be most enjoyable and successful
social affairs, The names of the guests and
the cities from which they came are, as
follows:

Theta Upsilon Omega: Misses Gwendolyn
Scruggs, Charlotte, N. C.; Mary Withers,
W. C. of U. N. C.; Hibernia Hudson, High
Point, N.'C.; “Tick” Fraley, High Point, N.
C.; Edith Crowder, High Point, N. C.; Rose
Rogers, Greensboro, N. C.; Elizabeth Gate-
wood, Pelham, N. C.; Marjorie Lewis, Chat-
tanooga, Tenn.; Peggy Ashcraft, Charlotte,
N. C.; Nancy Baylor, Staunton, Va.; Paige
Black, Staunton, Va.; Ellen Hawkins, Char-
lotte, N. C.; Willa Beckum, Atlanta, Ga.;
Amelia. Webb, Charlotte, N. C.; Virginia
Harlan, Charlotte, N. C. Y

Phi Gamma Delta: Romaine Clarke, Wil-
son, N. C.; Shaw Howell, Charlotte, N. C.;
“Sunshine” Bailey, Clinton, S, C.; Eleanor

(Continued on page’ 6)

Proposed Engagements
of Glee Club Announced

Annual Trip to Queens-Chicora Antici-
: pated by Members

The Davidson Glee Club, under the direc-
tion of Mr. Eugene Craft, of Charlotte, re-
cently announced its engagements and pro-
posed trips for the near future.

The first engagement away from the cam-
pus is a concert at Queens-Chicora College,
Charlotte, Friday, November 18. This
is an annual engagement for the Glee Club,

on

ure on the part of the members.

| ; »hbate “Res .
Arrangements have also been made for|™oerous debate on “Resolved

Sigma Pi Sigma

Sigma Pi Sigma, national honorary
physics fraternity, held its fall initia-
tion Tuesday night, November 8. The
initiates were J. P. Alexander, R. K.
Gregory, C. H. Little, D. M. McConnell,
J. K. Parker, E. C. Snead, J. M. Doug-
las, and W. M. Monroe. After the
formal initiation ceremony, an inter-

esting talk on “The Principles of
Aeronautics” -was given by Ansley
Watson.

Sigma Pi Sigma is looking forward
to an interesting year. Plans include
the possibility of one or two open
meetings with addresses by men prom-
inent in the field of science. Plans are
being made for the erection of a tablet
to commemorate the founding of Sig-
ma Pi Sigma at Davidson.

Sigma Pi Sigma numbers many fa-
mous names among its honorary mem-
bers. Some of these are Dr. W. T. G.
Swann, K. T. Compton, and W. L. Lee,
who was initiated at Davidson last
year,

PHI SOCIETY INSTALLS
NEW TERM OFFICERS

Nine Men From Various Classes Have
Recently Become Members

At a meeting last night at 9>o’clock the
newly elected officers of the Philanthropic
Literary Society were installed. These men
were elected by the society at the regular
weekly meeting on November 9. Last night
the retiring president, D. D. McBryde, gave
a short address and then turned the meet-
ing over to Stuart Noblin, who will serve as
the president for next term. The following
officers were installed: William
Fugate, vice-president; Arthur Ross, secre-
tary; D. D. McBryde, critic, and John Vass
supervisor.

After Retiring President McBryde gave
his address, the last term officers gave re-

new also

ports. They were as follows: Vice-presi-

dent’s report, William Fugate; secretary’s

report, Deans; critic’s report, Stuart Noblin,

and is anticipated with a great deal of pleas- | and supervisor’s.report, John Vass.

At a-recent meeting of the society a hu-
that since

concérts at Flora Macdonald College, Red| Roosevelt cleaned up’ in Noyember, Mrs.
Springs, N. C.; Aberdeen, N. C.; Hickory,| Roosevelt should not allow a Hoover clean-
N. C., and Valdese, N. C. Trips to State Col- | ¢t in the White House,” was held. This

lege and other points in North Carolina have
been proposed, but not definitely, arranged
yet. All of these trips are planned to be
made before the Christmas holidays.

Under the able direction of Mr. Craft, the
Glee Club has been making rapid progress
this year. Having lost. comparatively few
men by graduation, and having obtained
some valuable material among the new men,
the Glee Club is looking forward to a very
successful year.

Reeves Pope and his Southernaires, Da-
vidson’s popular dance orchestra, will ac-
company the Glee Club on all trips.

ty

Rhodes Scholarships

The members of the North Carolina
State Committee of Section for Rhodes
Scholarships have been chosen and are
as follows: Chairman, Honorable Jo-
sephus Daniels; Secretary, Dean W.
C. Davison, of Duke University; mem-
bers, Professor G. R. Vowles, of Da-
vidson College; President H. S. Hilley,
of Atlantic Christian College, and Pro-
fessor,C. P. Spruill, Jr., of University
of North Carolina;«:

On December 10th this committee
will meet to select two men from the
candidates for each of the six states
represented. The committee and..all_
the candidates will be entertained by
Duke University at a dinner on De-
cember 9th, at 7 p.m. The following
day, the selection of the twelve men
from North and South Carolina, Geor-
gia, Tennessee, Virginia and West Vir-
ginia will be made by the committee.
At a later date the candidates selected
will meet before a district committee
when four of these men will be
chosen.

debate was carried on, by the newly: initiated
men, Dale Jones and McMullen for the af-
firmative, and Joe Morrison and Alexander
for the negative.

Last night another debate was held. The
four new men, McNeill and Baggette, af-
firmative, and Marsh and Neill, negative,
participated in a lively discussion on “Ice is
not what it is cracked up to be.”

The society looks forward to a successful
Nine from the
classes have recently joined. These are as
follows: Dale Jones, McMullen, Joe Mor-
rison, Alexander,. McNeill, Baggette, Marsh,
Neill, and Cochran.

new term. men various

Juniors to be Initiated
Into Chemistry Society

Powell, Morrow, Blair, Wilson Hon-
ored by Gamma Sigma Epsilon

Alpha Alpha Chapter of Gamana Sigma
Epsilon honorary fraternity recently issued
bids to four men, J. T. Blair, R. C. Morrow,
Jr., E. L. Powell, and J. S. Wilson.

Gamma Sigma Epsilon is the mother chap-
ter of the national chemistry fraternity of
that name. Founded in 1919, it has grown
rapidly. Membership is based largely upon
grades, interest in the subject, and amount
of-chemistry—taken;

J. T. Blair of Albemarle, N. C., is a mem-
ber of the Sigma Pi Epsilon social fraternity,
and is vice-president of the Glee Club this
year.

R. C. Morrow, Jr., of Zitacuaro, Michoa-
can, Mexico, is a member of the Beta Theta
Pi social fraternity, .is a vice-president of
the Y, is captain of the cross-country, team
this year, and is a member of the “D” Club.

E. LY Powell, of Mobile, Ala., is a member
of the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity,

(Continued on page 6)

|Homecoming Celebration

is Held as Many Alumni
Return During Weekend

Davidson-Carolina Football Game Is
Feature Entertainment of a Very
Successful Program

GRAHAM GUEST OF SCHOOL

Barbecue Dinner Given by Committee
Headed by Prof. Blythe

Last week-end Davidson College held its
annual Homecoming celebration. The fes-
tivities started Friday night and were car-
ried on until the house parties broke up
late in the afternoon on Sunday.

This year’s Homecoming week-end was
quite similar to those of the past, although
several new features were brought in. Pro-
fessor Blythe of the Spanish Department
was at the head of the Homecoming Com-
mittee, and he was ably assisted by Messrs.
Jackson and Hengeveld.

The entertainment. program started Fri-
day night, when the Pan-Hellenic Council
of Davidson College sponsored a formal
dance at the Hotel Charlotte, featuring Bus-
ter Spann and His South Carolina Game-
cocks. “The-dance went over splendidly, and
the orchestra played several clever novelty
numbers that especially pleased those pres-
ent.

Saturday morning the Davidson varsity
cross-country team decisively defeated the
Winston-Salem. All-Stars, and the Davidson
Freshman harriers took a closer meet from
the Winston-Salem High School.

Following this an alumni gathering was
held in the auditorium of Chambers Build-
ing. At this conclave Capt. Norton G.
Pritchett, professor of physical education
and varsity track coach at Davidson, was
the principal speaker. Speeches were ‘also
made by several of the alumni present.
President Frank Porter Graham of the Uni-
versity of North Carolina was Davidson’s
guest for the Homecoming week-end, and
he said a few words during the gathering
in the auditorium. To top the meeting off,
the efficient committee had arranged with
the Boar's Head, barbecue stand deluxe, of
Charlotte, put a real old-fashioned
barbecue dinner. This went over in great
style, and after the dinner all adjourned
to the game. The alumni were given the
opportunity to get good seats when a special
block of tickets was held out prior to the
game, and were put up for sale during the
barbecue,

to on

The game, considered by practically every-
one as the main thing Homecoming’ is for,
was called for 2:30 p. m. It was a splendid
exhibition of football, but it put something —
of a blot on the Homecoming celebration

(Continued on page 6)

Davidson Freshmen End

Season With Duke Game

Wildkittens Haws Suffered “Only One
Defeat in Year’s Schedule

The Davidson Freshman football team will
play its last game of the season Friday aft-
ernoon on Richardson Field against the Duke
Freshmen.

The Imps have one of the most powerful
teams this year they have had in years, hav-
ing defeated all teams that they encountered,
including State Freshmen, Wake Forest
Freshmen, and Oak Ridge. The State first
year men, who downed the Wildkittens 12
to 7 two weeks ago, were defeated by Duke
12 to 6. The Imps’ team pivots around,
Saleeby and Sythmore at ends and Ferguson
in the backfield, and it is on these men that
they are depending for both their offensive
and defensive power. , Although it seems
that the Duke Freshmen have a slight mar-
gin on Davidson, this ought to be a good
game, as the Kittens should be playing hard
for their last game.

The Wildkittens-will.close-a-most-success-
ful season, having defeated P. J. C., 26-0, and
Wofford Fresh, 21-6, tied William and Mary,
0-0, and lost to State Fresh, 12-7. The var-
sity can therefore look forward to ¢getting
some good. material from this scrapping
eleven to fill the places of those members
of the team who will graduate.
