FINAL ISSUE CONGRATULATIONS
COMMENCEMENT COACH
MAY 28-30 LAIRD
-Qlenda Lux Abi Orta Libertas
Vol. XX : DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 17, 1933 No. 30

=

ATHLETES GIVEN
AWARDS IN ALL
SPRING SPORTS:

|
|
|

Bob Fetzer, U. N.CI C. Director.of ran

letics, Speaks at Annual Athletic
Day Ceremonies

FROSH RECEIVE NUMERALS

Archer Wins Physical Development
Trophy Over Yarborough

Robert A. Fetzer, Davdison graduate and
former Davidson coach, who is now director
of athletics at the University of North Car-
olina, was the speaker of the occasion, when
Davidson honored her athletes at the chapel
hour Tuesday morning in Chambers Audi-
torium.

The annual affair, which in past years
was held at night and at the beginning of
the spring sports program, was presided over
by Charlie Pearce, retiring president of the
Athletic Association. Certificates were pre-
sented—to—athletes_who earned letters in
football, basktball, wrestling, track, bascball,
tennis, and golf during the past school year.

Following this was the awarding of the
Physical Improvement Trophy to William
Archer, a member of the Freshman class,
who showed the greatest amount of mus-
cular development during the year. The
Gymnastic Trophy, awarded each year to
the winner in gymnastic competition, was
presented Lacy Adcox, a member of the
Junior class.

Ralph McMillan, director and coach of
athletics at Barium Springs Orphanage, was
awarded the gold football given each year
by the Athletic Association to the alumnus
showing the most interest in Davidson sports.

Before introducing the speaker, Charlie
Pearce presented footballs won by the
Wildcats in their 1932 season to E. L. Will-
son, newly elected president of the associa-
tion.

Announcement was made of the awarding
of varsity letters and freshman numerals to
athletes who took part in spring sports.
Forty-five upperclassmen earned their var-
sity “D,” of which thirty-four were for base-
ball and track.

The monograms and numerals awarded in
the spring sports were:

Varsity baseball letters: Baily, G. E., Hick-
ory; Bumgarner, F. L., Belmont; Harris, C.
C., Welch, W: Va.; Mackorell, J. C., Miami,
Fla.; Mills, A. L., Statesville; Mock, F. L.,
Lexington; Morgan, J. R., Albemarle; Mor-
ris, W. J., Hattiesburg, Miss.; Morrison, J.
G., Stanley; Morrison, J. D., Stanley; Pea-

body, E. B., Charlotte; Pearce, C> W., Plant

City, Fla.; West, J.
Whitley, J. C, Burlington;
Ruffin (Megr.).

Varsity track letters: Bettis, C. E., Mor-
ristown, Tenn.; Cochran, F. M., Davidson;
Dickerson, F..L., Greensboro; Fleagle, F. B.,
Davidson; Flinn, W. A., Atlanta, Ga.; Glas-
gow, D. M., Charlotte; Gullette, G. L.,
Blacksburg, Va.; Gwynn, W. B., North
Wilkesboro; Howard, J. R., Atlanta, Ga.;
Little, A. G., Valdosta, Ga.; Little, C. H.,
Charlotte; McCallie, R. L., - Chattanooga,
Tenn.; McPhail, E. F., Charlotte; McFad-
yen, A. A., Raeford; Morrow, R. C., Zita-
cuaro, Mexico; Pratt, L. W., Louisville, Ky.;
Rhyne, H. H., Mt. Holly; Wagner, J. M.,
Statesville; Sherrod, G. S., Greensboro
(Mer.).

W., Barium Springs;
Neal, G. C,,

(Continued on page 4)

R. O. T. C. Competition

Last Friday afternoon at the final
military drill of the year, the annual
company competition was held, Cadet
Captain Paul Brown, commander of
Company “B,” was presented with a
loving cup for the best company.

A similar trophy is given every year
to the commander of the company
which makes the best showing in the
competitive drill. This year Captain
Brown, ably assisted by Lieutenants
Flinn, Smith, Calhoun and Mackorell,
has worked hard with his-men and de-
veloped them into a most unusually
well-drilled group.

The judges of the competitive drill
were Major Rhett, Captain Cochran
and Captain Seifert, professors of mili-
tary science and tactics.

Junior Marshals

By a recent vote of the Junior class,
Lyman Clardy, Mack Holland, Duck
Powell, and Fred Smyre were elected

, to serve as Junior Marshals during
the

Alex Little had previously been se-
lected by the Senior class from last
year’s Junior Marshals, Bill Miulliss,
Bruce Peabody, and Charles Norfleet
to serve as Chief Marshal.

The four juniors were selected from
a group of ten nominees. On the first
ballot, Clardy, Powell, and Smyre were
chosgn, and Holland was selected on
the second ballot.

Boggs Corbin, John Drake, Brewster
Grant, Lynn Huie, Wee Thompson and
Julian West were the other nominees.

Students Attend
N. C. Federation

Brown, Clark, Smyre, and West Rep-
resent Davidson at Student
Convention

comm

Last Friday and Saturday, Gordon Brown,
Jerome Clark, Fred Smyre, and Julian West
attended the North Carolina Federation of
Students’ convention at Chapel Hill.

At lunch Friday, President Graham of
the University of North Carolina spoke.
Shortly after lunch a meeting of the con-
vention was called. At supper that night
Mr. Carl Goerch made a talk that was quite
humorous. Saturday morning was devoted
to discussion groups: These groups were
divided into: Honor System, Discipline, Pub-
lications, College Athletics. At lunch Sat-
urday, Dean Herring of Duke delivered an
address. After lunch the convention was
called together again and the election of
officers was had; also, the resolutions of the
convention were recorded. A banquet was
held that night for the convention, at which
the officers for next year were installed.
After the banquet, all were invited to the
Grail Dance.

This year the convention was considerably
larger than it has been. Several junior col-
leges were represented.

By way of this convention—each institu-
tion is given the opportunity. to.profit. by
the best points in the student government of
the other institutions of the state.

Dr. C. F. Myers Closes
Y. M.C. A. VesperServices

Large Vesper Audience Hears Dr.
Myers Speak on “Peerless In-
dividualism”

The year’s series of Y. M. C. A. vesper
services was brought to a close last Sunday
night when Dr. Charles F. Myers, of the
First Presbyterian Church of Greensboro,
delivered the final address.

The service was opened with the singing
of two hymns, after which Bill Flinn read
the First Psalm as the Scripture lesson. Sam
Wiley then led in prayer. The quartet of
the Myer’s Park Presbyterian Church of
Charlotte led the singing and offered two
beautiful selections.”

The theme of Dr. Myers’ message was
“Fearless Individualism,” his text being ‘the
words of our Lord, “What is that to thee?
Follow me.” He began by telling the story
of a certain official who was to leave his
city, and who called before him the out-
standing men of various vocations, desiring
to learn what each had accomplished along
his own walk of life. Men of numerous oc-
cupations—ministers, doctors, and business
men—all gave glowing reports of what they
had done to further the development of civil-
ization. A teacher was then asked what he
had done, and replied that he had not ac-
complished much; that he had only taught
.all-the other men to do the work of which
they were so’ proud. In this connection,
the speaker said that the professors of Da-
vidson bear the same relation to their stu-
dents as this teacher bore to his fellow
townsmen.

Dr. Myers then stated that there are three
stages in every man’s life: one in which he
asserts himself, another in which he is dis-
gusted with himself, and still another, when

(Continued on page 3)

NINETY-SEVENTH
CLASS TO RECEIVE
_ DIPLOMAS MAY30

Dr. Coffin and Dr. Lacy to Be Princi-
pal Speakers at Graduation
Exercises

FACULTY GIVE RECEPTION

|Seniors to Lead Discussions Before
| Alumni Association

| pcre eee

| Dr. Henry Sloane Coffin, of New York
| City, and Dr. Ben R. Lacy, of. Richmond,
| Va., are the principal speakers for the nine-
|/ty-seventh annual commencement exercises
of Davidson College, which begin Sunday,
May~—28, and continue through Tuesday. Dr.
Coffin will deliver the baccalaureate sermon
Sunday morning, and Dr. Lacy will make
the commencement address at the gradua-
tion exercises Tuesday night.

Dr. Coffin, a Presbyterian minister, is one
of the most widely known preachers in the
United States. He is also a famed author
and has written many religious works. Dr.
Coffin is a member of Phi Beta Kappa and
received his education at Union Theological
Seminary in Richmond, at Yale, and at Har-
vard,

Dr. Lacy, Davidson graduate in 1902, is
president of the Union Theological Sem-
inary in Richmond, Va. He was a Rhodes
Scholar and won many honors during his
years at Davidson. This brilliant speaker
has been heard several times before on
visits to Davidson.

On’ Monday at 5:00 p. m., there will be
a meeting of the Executive Committee of
the Alumni Council. The Alumni Council
will meet at 8:00 p. m.. the same day.

Alumni Day will take place on Tuesday
and several interesting and unusual meet-
ings have been arranged. There will be
four alumni discussion groups to be held at
10:00 a. m. Each discussion group will be
led by three or four members of the Senior
class. The purpose of the gatherings, is to
give the alumni.inside information about the

(Continued on page 4)

Branton and Evafis Are
lected Soph Officers

Bowman, Branton, Cumbie, Evans,
Goslin, Lindsay, Sutlive, Taylor,
Nominated

Coleman Branton was elected vice-presi-
dent of the rising Sophomore class and Ras
Evans was elected secretary and treasurer
in the election held during chapel on Satur-
day, May 13.

Bob Richardson, class president, called a
meeting of the class on Thursday morning
after chapel. At this meeting, Bowman,
Branton, Cumbie, and Sutlive were nominat-
ed for vice-president, and Evans, Goslin,
Lindsay, and Mills Taylor for secretary and
treasurer of the class.

The first ballot was held in chapel on Fri-
day morning, when Cumbie and Sutlive,
nominees for vice-president, and Goslin and
Taylor, nominees for secretary and treas-
urer, ‘were eliminated.

The run-off on Saturday morning resulted
in the election of Branton and Evans.

Both Branton and Evans have been active
in campus activities during their one year
at Davidson. “Cokey” Branton is an assist-
ant football manager and is on the business
staff of the “Quips and Cranks.” Ras Evans
has made a fine record in freshman track.

Cheap Railway Rates

Announcement was made recently by
the Southern Railway System of sev-
eral special bargain round-trip ar-
rangements. In these trips the fare
will be one cent for each mile trav-
elled, between stations in the South.

One of these round-trip groups is

especially interesting to Davidson
alumni, as it will enable them to at-
tend commencement at minmium

transportation rates. Tickets are on
sale May 27, 28, and 29 and the return
limit is June 3, more than covering the
commencement period.

Dr. C. S. Matthews Dies

Rev. C. S. Matthews, D.D., an alum-
nus of Davidson College, passed away
at his home in Lumberton, N. C., last
Thursday. It is thought that his death
was caused by heart failure.

Dr. Matthews was a graduate of the
class of 1895. He acted as an assist-
ant professor here at Davidson for a
while, and then went to Princeton
Theological Seminary. He was a pas-
tor in Kentucky for some time. Later
he moved to North Carolina, where
he served as pastor of the Lumberton
Presbyterian Church until his death.

His son, W. C. Matthews, a student |
at Davidson, left Thursday to attend
the funeral. The students extend to
him their deepest regrets and sincer-
est sympathies in his sorrow.

Dramatic Group
Gives Last Play

“The Importance of Being Ernest” Is
Last Production of Masquers

The final curtain was rung down on the
current theatrical season of the Davidson
Red and Black Masquers with their produc-
tion of Oscar Wilde’s “The Importance of
Being Ernest,” a three-act comedy, before
a large and appreciative audience last Fri-
day night at Chambers Auditorium,

A talented cast produced the play, and
the action was ably characterized by the
Thespians. The play was under the direc-
tion of Ed Hancock, and supervised by Pro-
fessor E. J. Erwin.

The cast was as follows:

John Worthing_------.- Wills Hollingsworth
Algernon Moncrieff Nicholas Moss
Rev. Canon Chausuble Gordon Wood
Merriman Bill Johnson

Gwendolyn
Lady Bracknell
Cecily Cardew
Miss Prism Miss Orrie Steele

The plot concerned Ernest Worthington,
a care-free young gentleman of England,
and his efforts to win the hand of Gwendolyn
Fairfax, whose social career was planned
by her aunt, Lady Bracknell. Ernest’s wishes
are blocked by his friend Algernon Mon-
crieff, who, in turn, is in love with Cecily

(Continued on page 4)

Various Courses to Be
Given in Summer School

Professor Fred K. Fleagle Will Again
Be Director of Summer Session

The summer session of Davidson College
for the year 1933 will begin, as authorized
-by.the_trustees,on June 5 and end_on July
14.° The requirements for admission to this
session are the same as those for the reg-
ular session, since all of the courses offered
are of college grade and character and are
so recognized by the college.

Professor Fred K. Fleagle will be the di-
rector of the summer session again this
year. All communications regarding sum-
mer school should be addressed to him.

Work will be offered in English, History,
Political Science, Education, Bible, Mathe-
matics, Economics, Foreign Languages and
Sciences, with the understanding that no
class will be given in any special branch
of these subjects unless there is a reason-
able demand for it. Teachers should be
interested in two special courses that are
being offered in the field of elementary edu-
cation.

The fees for the summer session, payable
to the college, will be $47, distributed as
follows: Tuition—$30, Room Rent—$12.50,
and Laundry—$4.50. Board will run from
$5.00 to $6.00 a week.

FESTIVAL MARSHAL

W. Allen Mebane, Jr., president of the

Senior class, is one of the marshals of North

Carolina’s first Cotton Festival, which is be-
ing held in Raleigh this Friday.

LITERARY SOCIETIES
The Philanthropic and Eumenean Literary
Societies held installation of officers at their
regular meetings Tuesday night, May 9th.

,  souttipaw, inthe pinches,

WILDCATS WILL
~ FINISH AT TOP
DESPITE DEFEAT

By Duke—Davidson Licks State Mon-
day and Wake Forest Tuesday
to Retain Lead

PEARCE BESTS BARNES

Duke’s Victory Gives Wake Forest
Chance to Tie ’Cats

In spite of dropping the final game of the
season to -Duke Wednesday, the Davidson
Wildcats retained their lead in the Big Five
race. Their lead is by virtue of five wins
as compared with three losses, as Wake
Forest places second with four victories and
three defeats.

Should Wake Forest defeat Duke tomor-
tow, they will tie Davidson for the state
championship, but if Duke defeats Wake,
the ’Cats will get the title.

Sports writers in the state refuse to give
Davidson credit for a third victory over
Carolina in the Big Five standings. —€redit
for three victories over the Tar Heels would
clinch the title for Coach Laird’s boys with
six wins and three losses.

The Big Five standings:

Won Lost Pct.

Davidson oe ccn0 ceo 5 3 625
Wake Forest ~----------- 4 3 571
North Carolina ~~------- 3 3 500
N. C. State 3 4 429
Dike: Sscscecccce eee 58 4c 333
In three games played on Monday, Tues-

day and Wednesday of this week, Davidson
licked State, 12 to 8; Wake Forest, 2 to 1;
and dropped a ragged contest to Duke, 7
to 4.

Duke 7, Davidson 4

Wildcat
served to defeat
the Davidson team on Richardson Field
Wednesday, Duke winning 7 to 4.

For five innings things went about even
with the ’Cats having a slight edge due to
Mackorell’s circuit clout, but the Blue Devils
evened things up in their turn at bat. They
followed this with another run in the sixth,
four in the eighth, and still another in the
final canto.

The Davidson team tried a rally in the last
two innings. They scored once in the eighth
when the speed merchant, Mills, streaked
around the sacks to score a home run. Then
in the final frame, with two away, Bum-
garner hit a four-bagger, scoring relief hurl-
er Harris ahead- of him. Peabody grounded
out to retire the side and end the ball game.

Baily —-started—-for—Davidson and was
touched for seven bingles during the little
more than seven innings that he worked.
However, poor support was largely respon-
sible for his downfall,

Poor support to George Baily,

The line-ups:

Duke AB R HOA E
WELSCVinZ2D occeee sshases 4: <0: -.0- 23). 7372.0
Mitchell, .cf --------.-- Ac Oe 10 le 0
Michael, ss -.:~---..--. AP) acy Jarek Joie 42005 |
Wagner ci scccsssces 3220) 0. 4.350
Thompson, rf -------+-- Sele 2 le 0 0
Wreontzrelfe 2.5002 pon ouy 4 1 0-2) 0..0
Weaver lb --22-- = 22222 402. 2:213;- 0-40
Hendrickson, 3b ------ 45202100 26.20
GCoombsiep = 42 23 ora

Totalsnstces2 see B87. FM 27 18d

(Continued on page 6)

Pan-Hellenic Council

The ten social fraternities on the
have elected the following rep-
resentatives for the Pan-Hellenic
Council during the coming year: Beta
Theta Pi, Fred Smyre; Pi Kappa Al-
pha, Buck Kirkland; Kappa Alpha,
Fred McPhail; Sigma Alpha Epsilon,
Sid Tomlinson; Kappa Sigma, Mac
Holland; Phi Gamma Delta, Duck
Powell; Pi Kappa Phi, Brad McLean;
Theta Upsilon Omega, Miller Coch-
ran; Phi Delta Theta, Ben Barnes;
Sigma Phi Epsilon, John H
The new council has had no meet-
ing as yet, but one will be called soon
in order to elect the new president.
Bill Mulliss, of Martinsburg, W. Va.
filled this office during the past year.

ca

ry

