THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 25, 1933

~The Bavidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

EDWARD _O. GUERRANT. sa Editor-in-Chief
A. M. MANSON Manag
—OOOOOOO eee
EDITORIAL STAFF ‘41
‘4 any Managing Editor
ie Me CMENCK pe ore eipeoeseer aaaterene Managing Editor
W. M. THOMPSON Managing tor
ACK_WILLIAMS. Managing Editor
DI CASALI_.-.. sabe ;-Ath etic by rr
. E. LAKE ere nan 8G Alter
HAS GAMBIT Rasiya os ieacsctucseicusassachasacies Feature Editor
if Contributing Editor
Bi GAY eETIAIN COG Rartetaudasasesenencoccucesacuasecues Review Editor
D. Associate Editor
R. iate Editor
Cc. Associate Editor
B. -Associate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
W. T. JOHNSON Assistant Busi Manag
ALVIN BAYER, JR cease
A 9 JRicccccacccwsn cen fT
H. B. DANIEL. olicitor
J. M. DOUGLAS olicitor
G. L. GREEN-_----- citor
W._P._ SPRUNT icitor
. R. TAYLOR icitor
. A. C. WADSWORTH
. E, WHITE citor
REPORTERS’ CLUB ——
E. President
i & GAMBLE Vice-President
LEWIS GREGG. Secretary-Treasurer
M. W. ALDERMAN . L. McCLINTOCK
R. H. ALDERMAN iy L._ McILWINEN
G. E, BAILY E, F. McPHAIL
D. B. BAILEY Ww. C. NEILL
B. C. BARNES W._L. NORTHEN
E. BOWERS C. E. NORVELL
} E. BOYD E. L.. POWELL
H. COVING' S. P. PRESTON
S. K. EATO) P. M. ROGERS
i B, FICK B. u ROSE .
. L. GULLETTE . H,
qaGk HELLINGER N. W. WALLACE
. C, HENRY K. D. WEEKS
vf A. HUNTER W. R. WARD
. E. LORRAINE W._T. THOMPSON
T. F. WOOD +f W. WHITE
W. F. MULLISS . PRATT-THOMAS

JANUARY 25, 1933

“There are moments when, regardless of what-
ever be the attitude of the body, the soul is on tts
knees.’—Victor Hugo.

—D
THOUGHTS IN PASSING

It is with a sigh of relief that we face the new
semester. Exams and all that they imply are over.
A new chance awaits us. Let us make the most of
this opportunity.

re

Hints of spring are seen in the warm weather,
fresh buds and early flowers, but the weather bureau
of the Davidsonian predicts that a good deal of cold
weather is to come before spring finally arrives.

: D.

To the Freshmen—Don’t be discouraged. Many a
better man than you has flunked a subject or two.
Take heart. ° :

—D.

Reeves Pope and his staff are to be congratulated, _

especially on the last issue of the Yowl.
D

The basketball season thus far has been rather un-
successful, but let us remember that the*team is
handicapped in stature, and that they are a Davidson
team, and we should support them.

———D

The vesper services the past several Sundays have

been. especially good. Let’s get into the habit again.
——ee——

The approaching mid-winters promise much fun

and frivolity for all.
a

The Stough brothers are to be congratulated on
their run of good pictures lately.

D. ;

It was with a good deal of disappointment that we
learned that Davidson along with other applicants
was not admitted into the Southern Conference.

D.

We are inclined to believe that Davidson, along with
William and Mary, will be the first two colleges in
either Virginia or the Carolinas to be admitted into
the Southern Conference. It would be fitting, as these
two schools are among the oldest in the South.

D.

We hope that Davidson will be admitted to the

Southern Conference at their meeting this coming —

September. It would be highly beneficial for us and
fitting that we should be taken in.
D.

Our sympathies are with those who have started
spring football practice. ;

a
CALIFORNIA AND PROHIBITION

Last November when Roosevelt was swept
into office by an overwhelming majority,
many opponents of prohibition thought that
we would have the repeal or modification of
the Eighteenth Amendment immediately. The
result of the action of Congress on this mat-
ter and President Hoover’s veto is well known,
althdugh few friends and supporters, of the
Amendment entertain much hope that it will
in its present status remain unchanged.

The sentiment of the whole country last
November, or by far the greater part of it, was
that prohibition as it exists now was a com-
plete failure and that any change would be
for the better; and of course many people still
‘have the same idea about this which they had
at election time. Many in this country who
had formerly been advocates of prohibition

~ment.

and were known to be drys, openly opposed
this Amendment., There have been some, how-
ever, who have maintained that the Eighteenth
Amendment in,its present form is the best way
to handle the Situation in this country. These
people have a strong poirit in their favor, be-
cause their argument before the election was
that conditions would be much worse than
they are now if the prohibition law were done
away with. Their arguments have been proven
to be properly grounded in the case of the re-
peat-of the -Wright-Act-in-the-State-of-Caht-
fornia. This act which supplemented the na-
tional prohibition act was repealed in Novem-
ber, and the results since then have been very
interesting. There were many predictions by
prohibitionists that drunkenness and reckless
driving would increase if this act were re-
pealed, and these have all come true. Sfatis-
tics were taken in Los Angeles thirteen days
before the repeal of the Wright Act and thir-
teen days after the repeal, and we shall give
them as a matter of comparison. For the pe-
riod of time before the repeal of the act there
were 889 arrests, and for the corresponding
time after the repeal there were 1,095 arrests.
In the November period there were 363 traffic
accidents, 492 injuries and nine deaths. In
the same period in December, accidents num-
bered 507, injuries in traffic 695; and deaths
reached the record-breaking total of twenty-
nine. :

These few figures reveal, in a manner which
no amount of argument or debate would, just
exactly what is the effect of the repeal of a
law controlling the liquor traffic in any state.
The most ardent wet must pause in the face
of these facts and wonder if the repeal of the
Eighteenth Amendment is the correct solution
after all, if we must face increased crime,
From the effect in this one state, we must

wonder what would be the nation-wide result .

if Congress repeals the Eighteenth Amend-
Certainly many politicians have been
proven to be in the wrong when they stated’
that conditions under prohibition were.at their
lowest ebb and could not be worse, for the
results in California have conclusively proven
that conditions not only can be worse but are
at the present time worse than when the state
prohibition law was in effect.

A HINT

A good start is half. A good beginning im-
mediately turns all efforts into the right paths.

Many a career of brilliant possibilities is
marred by a wrong or bad beginning. Many
people spend the latter part of their lives try-
ing to correct the errors they made during the
earlier part, and there are many persons: who
never get.over their mistakes of early life.
Many a noble enterprise has fallen because its
foundation was bad. Poor preparation for a
business or a career does not bring a man great
success, but most frequently brings him fail-
ure.

These principles also apply in our school life.
The beginning a student makes often deter-

“mites whether te ;willepass or fail the course.

With the recent examinations, camhe the
close of the first semester and the beginning
of the second semester of the present school
term. It is needless to say that few if any of
us learned as much about the different courses
we took as we should like to have learned, But
what we failed to do last semester is a thing
of the past now, and should not burden our
minds. Our efforts should be concentrated on
the semester which just began.

It is of utmost importance that we start this
semester well. Of course, in some of the sub-
jects we take this term, our success will de-
pend-upon what we learned about the subject
last semester. Despite this handicap, we can
still attain success in these subjects if we be-
gin them well.

Often have we been told that the essence
of success in study is the ability to stick to
it until the task is mastered. This is gained
largely through practice. By starting the prac-
tice now at the beginning of the semester, we
can acquire the habit that much sooner and
thus attain a greater degree of success which
will be. more knowledge of and a better grade
in,our subjects.

—ODI CASALI.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. LAKE

Washington and Lee

The Washington and Lee. Fancy Dress, which will
be held this week-end, will not be broadcast over
the Lucky Strike Hour/as it was last year. This is
due to the fact that the Lucky Strike program this
year is under contract, and the hour is broadcasting
only from New York, Chicago, and San Francisco.
Bernie Cunimins and his internationally famous dance
orchestra will furnish the music for this great occa-
sion, which is considered by many as the greatest
set of dances in the South and one of the best in

the country. The Fancy Dress is known all over .

the country and people come from all over the States
to participate in this festival.

During Bernie Cummins’ tour of the South this
week and next week, when he will go to Washington
and Lee and Georgia Tech, Jan Garber, the latest
sensation in dance orchestras, will play every night
at the Trianon ballroom in Chicago. He will be play-
ing as a substitute for Cummins. This is broadcast

WORLD SPECTATOR

-1SAW

The German Reichstag has recently made plans
for the reclaiming of a large tract of land from the
sea near Schleswig-Holstein. This project, some-
what similar to the Zuider Zee operations carried on
by the Dutch, will restore a large tract of land which
has slowly and steadily been given up to the ocean.
The Germans, however, are _not_in as great_a hurry
as the Dutch were, and have allowed one hundred
years for the completion of the project. The method
used by the engineers and geologists will be to build
a dam, the longest one in the world, separating the
sea from the land to be reclaimed. The land will then
be drained and turned over to agriculture. Another
project, to build up the surface of the land, is to run
the rivers through settling basins and thus let the silt
in the rivers supply the land which the ocean has been
taking away.

Possibly if the condition of business all over the
world gets much ‘worse we will be forced to have
disarmament. Chile has recently come to. the con-
clusion that in these hard times its~battleships are
costing too much. Now Chile has laid up all her
battleships and has dismantled a great many of them.
For quite a while one of the battleships has been
tied up to a dock and has been without fire in her
boilers, the necessary energy for the maintenance of
the ship being supplied by connecting the ship to a
land power electricity line. With the reduction of the
navy, Chile is now in a position to save money on
armaments and use the appropriations for better
things.

ing on, ough there are no great battles at the
present. In°'skirmishes’ and “engagements between
small units, the Bolivians have been charged with
using dum dum bullets against the Paraguans. These
soft-nosed bullets spread when they hit their target,
and make a very bad wound. As a result they are
forbidden by international law. The claim by Para-
guay may be only propaganda to promote ill feeling
toward Bolivia.

= a
The oe Paraguay and Bolivia is still go-

Mr. Earl Hanson has just returned from an ecight-
een-month trip into the northern jungles of South
America. His trip into the wilds was made in order
to gather scientific information about terrestrial mag-
netism for the Carnegie Institution of Washington,
D. C. While he was there Mr. Hanson fearned quite
a good deal about the’ condition of South American
international relations. Mr. Hanson said that “the
casual traveler through these cotntries is given the
impression that South America is on the verge of
blowing up.”

The 1933 edition of Brassey’s: Naval Shipping An-

~ nual, a British publication, has directed rather sharp

criticism against ‘the United States battlships Colorado,
Maryland, and West Virginia.
out that “the speed is low and the main armament
of sixteen-inch guns is less in number than’in Brit-
ish ships. Notwithstanding the adequate thickness of
the belt and barbette armor, the horizontal protec-
tion appears weak, and the entirely unarmored for-
ward end of the vessel, if shot away at-the stem near
the water line, would diminish speed by a matter of
knots.” The United States Chief of Naval Operations
does not deny the above statements, but only con-

_ tends that the ships, when new, were of what was

»

nightly over WGN in Chicago about 11:30. Jan, in
talking to reporters, -said that all of his pieces were
new except Rudy. Jan has improved a great deal
in the last year and this is the explanation for it.
Right now he looks like another Guy Lombardo.

University of Chattanooga

The men at the University of Chattanooga have
decided to let the girls go in “dutch” with therh: on
their dates. Good idea during this depression time.
Here is the editorial entitled: Should Co-eds Pay?

“Women in their fight down through the ages for
equality with men have craved to be independent
creatures. They have desired to enter the business
world, and they have; they have aspired to be doc-
tors, lawyers, pilots, steeplejacks, and bascball play-
‘ers, and they are. Having scorned the bonds of
monogamy, placed on them by the polygamous male,
they have demanded less discrimination between the
sexes, and they have more freedom in les. affairs
d’amour. In fact, women have waged a successful
fight against many prejudices concerning the weaker
sex,

“The men at. U. €, have watched the co-eds strug:
gle—on the dance floor, in the classroom, ete. They
have felt very distressed about certain conditions
existent. The men have now decided on certain in-
novations in order to help the darling ‘guhls’ to ‘make
the world safe for democracy’ of women. The men
decided, therefore, to allow the petites mademoiselles
to donate half the fortune expended on dates. The
gallants realize what an up-hill battles the ‘balls and
chains’ are waging; so their innate chivalry comes
to the fore’ with this suggestion.

“The men give reasons for this, but recently, un-
precedented action. They declare that, during the
panic, girls have as much as they, and that it is rather
discouraging when a date costs $6.10—yes, six dol-
lars and ten cents. Didn’t you dames know that?
After three bucks for a corsage, three bucks for a
dance, and a dime for incidentals (just how many
incidentals can one buy for ten cents?), it is rather
depressing when the gal orders a sandwich and malted
milk at intermission. So there is the situation of
the arrogant male.”

The annual pointed ..

Under the’ hanging mistletoe,
The homely co-ed stands,
And stands, and stands, and stands, and stands,
And stands, and stands, and stands.
—Thresa Crowd.

Well, here we are back agdin with Xmas past, the
‘exanis over and the new semester already begun.
Now we can count the days until the spring vacation
and study in the meantime. I had a grand Xmas
but it’s good to be back. Some of the crowd got
real nice presents. F’r instance modest Lynne Huie
is sporting a swelegant cig case. Congrats. But let
us go on, you know a colymnist is as good as his
last colymn. I think this one is a pip so read it~
and weep.

. aspirin tablets put on special at Whites with a
spoon to match. I think that shows good business
sense. After these exams reach for an aspirin and
you'll probably need two when you get your report.

—_———s
. .. little Sally Moore in front of the College Inn
Thursday morning instead of school. Between sniffles
she explained she wasn’t at school because of a bad
cold. They say Sally is one of the best readers in her
class. Yes indeedy.

. our president, Dr. Lingle, sally forth on a trip
to Florida. While away he will make 38 speeches.
That seems a big assignment for even Huey P. Long,
doesn’t it? 6

eR Et Ort Williams driving a new Chrysler. I told
you that salesman would sell him and sure enough
he must have been convinced. :

'... Davidson’s own Babe Dedrickson flying around
the cinder track in a cloud of dust. It’s little Eliza-
beth Henderson who ran a half-mile without stop-
ping and was ready for more. Her strappling male
companion gasped between breaths, “No, I think
you’ve had enough. You better run home now.”

. or rather heard some Sig Ups remark that
they were embarrassed to death at meetings lately.
They have been holding spelling matches and some
of them say they never could spell. But they keep
on going, my dear; they wouldn’t miss for anything.

... that lotta studs are counting big on Midwinters,
Art Kassell is to play and a bevy of college boys will
be on hand. Orchidaceous debs will dance as some
debs do if for nothing but an excuse to buy some new
evening shoes. And more than _ likely they’ll need
them. I really don’t care what kind of shoes mine
wears as long as she brings a small appetite. The

girl that goes with me will have a grand chance to
try reducing.

. and heard from a source near the president
that Jo Jones is not permanently closed but will soon
be open for business after, having “Going Out of
Business” signs.plastered around,

So-and-So groaning about that fellow Tip

’ Poff. I still protest against being taken seriously. I

think Davidson can be divided into two classes. Those
who want their names in this colymn and ‘those who
want to keep them out. Requests come~in all the time
not to publish this or that, but I notice those who
complain are the first ones who rush down to the
P. O. to read our stuff. Anyway it’s something new
under the sun, and I am a persistent goer-out and
try to give satisfactory service. It’s fun to give a
pat+on-the-back to the deserving. y
Your old maestroach,
TIP POFF.

then called good design. These battleships cannot
compare to some of the British ships of newer de-
sign and construction such as H. M. S. Nelson, but
we could, if the need arose, put quite a bit of im-
provement upon our present ships.

The Rockefeller Institute of Medical Research has
recently announced the discovery by two members
of its staff of a way to locate the cells in the human
body which are-responsible for the immunity of per-
sons to disease. The method used is to inject harm-
less particles of magnetized iron into the body. The
cells producing immunity pick up these particles in
the same manner that they pick up the dangerous
germs which produce disease. It is the habit of these
cells to cast loose from their supports when they
have “eaten” enough microbes. In the same manner
the cells cast off when they have absorbed enough
particles of iron. By simply placing a strong mag-
net agaifist’a portion of the body, these free cells
are attracted to that part of the body and may be
collected. Experimenters have succeeded in transfer-
ring-these-celts-from the body into glass dishes where
they may be cultivated.

In spite of the fact that there is more currency
than in 1929, bartering centers have sprung up in all
parts of the United States. People, unable to sell
for money at a decent price, are bringing their prod-
ucts to several small offices, where they are told
where they can find someone who wants to swap.
This barter is not confined to products, but service is
also rendered by barter. Thus the cobbler repairs
the butcher’s shoes and in return is paid off in meat.
The dentist accepts plumbing service as payment for
dental work. This idea of barter was probably the
first form of business and reverts to the old idea of
production for a demand instead of for a market.
