THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 8, 1933

— —

Unique Utah

By JACK WILLIAMS, Jr.

(NOTE: This is one of a series of re-
quest articles describing a tour of the
West while attending the convention of
the National Editorial Association.)

Salt Lake City is truly an individual city.
Approaching it on an avenue seven miles
long, the first: thing noticed is the magnifi-
cent capitol standing majestically on the
crest of-a rolling slope.-It-is-said-to-occupy.
the most commanding site of any capitol
in America. This city that arose from the
desert is distinguished not only for its
unique position but for the story of its
growth. Nestled at the foot of high, snow-
capped mountains which slope down, with
America’s most remarkable body of water,
Great Salt Lake, a few miles.ditsant,. Salt
Lake City occupies a setting of rare charm.
It is indeed “a sparkling gem in a lordly
setting.”

After stopping at the hotel we unpacked
and headed for the Temple Square. On our
way we passed the Pioneer Monument, a
massive granite pedestal surmounted by the
bronze figure of Brigham Young. This great
pioneer standing there had a quiet simplic-
ity and stalwart pose. The pedestal was em-
bellished with the figures of an Indian, a
trapper, and the names of the first company
of pioneers who came to Utah.

CHURCHES

The first church building noticed was the
general office which was an imposing edi-
fice of simple Greek architecture. The Tem-
ple was situated in the center of the city
and surrounded by a stone and adobe wall.
It was a pioneer landmark, yet its lines and
freedom from ornamentation make it im-
pressive. A party was being conducted
through the grounds and buildings and we
joined it as they were starting.

The Assembly Hall is a semi-Gothic struc-
ture and the furnishings were simple. Above
the pipe organ a beehive was sketched on
the ceiling. The bee is the state emblem and
symbolizes industry. This building is used
for the social, intellectual and religious up-
lift of the people. Meeting houses. are con-
structed by tithes of the people in every
ward of the city. The Mormons observe tith-
ing strictly and seldom have to call on mem-
bers for additional contributions.

The guide, who was a Mormon, asked if
there were any ministers of the Church in
the audience. There were several present,
and he had them stand and tell about their
work on the foreign field. One of the mis-
sionaries to England reported that after 12
years’ work in England he had three con-
verts, but he liked his work for in trying
to convert others he had become converted
himself.

Contrary to popular opinion, Mormons are
not allowed to have more than one wife.
If they do and the church hears about it,
they are ex-communicated. Jt is true that
they used to practice this as did Abraham,
but Congress forbade it. The church does
not send out these missionaries. They send
themselves and when not able to finance
the venture often work years to make
enough money to go. It would be interesting

to quate the articles of faith of the Latter-
Day Saints, but jt is long and we shall pass
on. :

The Tabernacle roof is self-supporting
and the arches are held together with wood-
en pegs and cowhide thongs. for no nails
were used in constructing it. The organ in
the Tabernacle is noted for its size and tone
and the pipes range in length from five-
eighths of an inch to 32 feet. This building
is famous for its acoustics and a pin dropped
in the pulpit can be heard while sitting in
the rear of the auditorium. Ten thousand
people can be comfortably seated and the
building is arranged so that it can be emp-
tied in three minutes.

The Temple, which took 40 years to con-
struct, was also interesting. It is built of
gray granite and the largest rocks are
known as “Earth Stones” and they have to
do with the creation of the earth. The
“Moon Stones” were inserted in a line with
the top of the first row of oval windows
and they concerned the- fulfilling of the
prophecy in Mormon Scripture. Above them
were the “Sun Stones,” which were related
with the “All Seeing Eye.” On the capstones
of the central tower was the searing statue
of an angel in a blaze of gold.

As you probably know, Mormons believe
in the transmigration of souls. The guide
got it into his head that Daddy was a Pres-
byterian preacher and asked him how the
doctrines he had been expounding compared
with Presbyterianism. Daddy assured him
that he was a Presbyterian but instead of
being a minister he was an editor. The guide
continued his lecture by describing how his
soul passed down from editors of the past.
Inside the Temple 1,200 people were pray-
ing for the dead.

In the middle of the grounds were the
statues of Joseph Smith, The Prophet, and
his brother, Hyrum. Joseph Smith was a
life-like character. The carriage of his
whole body, especially the alert, intellectual
head, were convincingly expressed. There
was a dignity of repose and energy of life
and gesture all the more impressive that
it was kept under control. The Prophet,
holding the Holy Scriptures, was‘in the act
of expounding it to some_listeners, and one
felt that the message had mighty import.

Near the two statues was the new monu-
ment of the three witnesses of the Book
of Mormon. This monument was in com-
memoration of the three men, Oliver Cow-
dery, David~Whitner,-and-Martin Harris,
who bore witness of the revelation in this
day and that, the Book of Mormon is the
story of the dealings with people on the
American continent.

OLDEST HOUSE

Before leaving the grounds, one passes
the oldest house in Utah. It was protected
under a marble pergola and surrounded by
an iron fence. As one looks into the little
cabin and sees the. hearthstone, one is re-
minded of the beautiful lines written by
Whittier concerning his boyhood home:
“We piled with care our mighty stack

Of wood against the chimney back
The oaken log, green, huge, and.thick,
And on its top the stout back-stick;
The knotty fore-stick laid apart,
And filled between with curious art

“DRUGS”

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

Make Our Store Your Store
Student Supplies ence

WHITE DRUG CO,, Inc.

“SODAS”

“SUNDRIES”

ONVENIENT
LOSE
ANITARY
HEAP

When in Need of a

USE YOUR HEAD |
and Go to Norton’s

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

Haircut

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

Richmond, Virginia
B. R. Lacy, Jr. D.D., LL.D., President

A graduate of Davidson and of/Union studying abroad writes:

“There are able scholars here whose books are known and read
all over the religious world. None of them can surpass some of our |

professors at Union as teachers,
student to joyous,

j 3, and none of them can challenge a
practical Christianity as did our professors there.”

ae See nce ee TrrTrrrrs rrr

The ragged brush; then hovering near,
We watched the first red blaze appear,
Heard the sharp crackle, caught the gleam,
Of whitewashed wall and sagging beam,
Until the old, rude-furnished room

Burst flower-like, into rosy bloom.”

SALTAIR BEACH

In the afternoon Saltair Beach was visit-
ed for a swim in Great Salt Lake situated
15 miles from the city. Pennants and
streamers were blowing in the air from
the Moorish towers. Donning bathing suits
we-stepped-down the pavilion floor into the
water and were literally lifted off our feet.
You can float or swim, but never sink. It’s
impossible! The water is 22 per cent salt,
making it from six to eight times as salty
as the ocean and you float like a cork over
its briny top. It isn’t necessary to know
how to swim and it requires no effort to
float.

Saltair stood out a mile from shore on
great pilings and aside from its unique
bathing is one of the finest amusement re-
sorts in the West. Not the least among the
interesting features of Saltair was the
sweeping view it affords of the country in
all directions. Nearby were vast islands re-
ceding into a chain of mountain peaks and
on one side was the Wasatch Range at the
base of which nestled Salt Lake City.

This strange setting on the waters of a
mysterious “Dead Sea,” its spaciousness,
set it apart asa place unique. It was a spot
of strange beauty, subtle mystery, and vi-
brant romance. Coming back to town the
gas gave out and the car just managed to
roll up to a tank at the airport, where it
was refilled. We were so busy looking at
the scenery we didn’t have time to look at
a gas gauge and later repented of this when
we became stranded on the desert with the
nearest filling station miles away.

Silver Screen

Wednesday, March 8—King of the Jungle

This picture is similar to the Tarzan pic-
ture, and is a bit fantastic. Buster Crabbe,
Olympic champion swimmer, and world’s
most perfectly formed male, portrays the
role of the Lion Man, king of the beastsof”
the jungle. He grows up in the jungle, wild
and ferocious. He is captured, brought to
civilization, where he discovers himself to
be a man.—He-falls—in—love—with—Frances
Dee. He saves the city of San Francisco
when a cargo of wild beasts escape their
cages, by his command over them. He goes
back to the jungle that he loves. Although
the picture is fantastic, it-is_rated as good.
It is.a_picture-of-warm-romance—on-two
continents.

Thursday and Friday, March 9, 10—State
Fair

Eight stars, notably, Will Rogers, Lew
Ayres, Janet Gaynor, Sally Eilers, Norman
Foster, Frank Craven, Louise Dresser and
Victor Jory, make up an unusually good
cast in this picture of farm life. It is the
first big attempt of the talkies to give.a
picture of rural life in America. It is the
story of the fortunes of Abel Franks’ fam-
ily at the State Fair. Will Rogers is the
lovable. father. The Gaynor-Ayres team is
up to par with Gaynor-Farrell team in sup-
plying the romance. It is an amusing pic-
ture and a restful one. Liberty gaye this
picture 8 1-2 stars.

Saturday, March 11—Sailor’s Luck
No dope was available at the time of the
writing of this column on this picture.

Monday, March 13—Broadway

Joan Blondell, Ricardo Cortez and Ginger
Rogers are the chief attractions in this pic-
ture. They are ably aided by Adrienne Ames
and Victor Jory. It is a picture of the New
York underworld and their ‘doings. Joan

Visiting Quartet

Friday morning as a part of the
regular chapel exercises a quartet
from Hampdon Institute will render
a number of vocal selections. Hamp-
don Institute is a negro school lo-
cated at Hampdon, Virginia, and it
was as this college that Booker T.
Washington was educated.

The quartet which will visit here is

>

“Peace” Is Discussed
By Dr. T. W. Lingle

Dr. T. W. Lingle led a discussion on the
subject, “World Peace and Disarmament;
R. O. T. C., Yes. or No?” at the Fireside
Forum last Friday evening. After the read-
.ing of & portion of the Sermon on the’ Mount
as representative of the strong attitude to-
ward peace of the writers of the Bible, two
of the group led in prayer.

Dr. Lingle opened the discussion with a
summary—of—the~developments—in—interna-
tional relationships from their beginnings
to the present time. There have been three
periods in this development. First was the
idea of world dominion by a single sover-
eign, under the regime of which Cyrus and
Darius made the Medes and Peellane the
lords of the Eastern world, and under which
Alexander, after he had gained supremacy
over the then known countries of the earth,
cried because there were no more worlds to
conquer. The fall of this type of empire
saw the beginning of the second era and
the rise of the Feudal System. During this
period the whole of Europe was divided into
estates governed by some member of the
gentry. The third period was an outgrowth
of the second. Its spirit was expressed by
Andrew Jackson in the words which have
come to be associated with him: “To the
victor !elongs the spoils!” This period be-
gan about the time of the Renaissance and
in it have Leen all of the greatest wars of
mankind, including the greatest of all—the
World War.

Individuals are making greater, progress
in relations between each other, Dr. Lingle

best way to settle disputes is to go to some

verdict on the matter as final. The leader
stated that it was his belief that if the
United States was a member of the League,
the Japanese invasion of Manchuria could
have been stopped in two weeks. Nations
should organize to maintain peace as they
have done to wage war. Although the United
States has refused membership in the Court
and the League, both of which it started, it
| will eventually have to join if public opinion
becomes strong enough. With this feeling

JUNIOR .CLASS ANNOUNCES
DATE OF JUNIOR SPEAKING

(Continued from page 1)
to the gaiety of the occasion. The orchestra
will play from the south side of the ball-
room, facing the main entrance, instead of
the eastern end, as previously stated. This
central location of the orchestra will in-
crease the audition to a great extent.

As a feature of the Friday night dance,
there will be a figure, composed of mem-
bers of the Junior class*and their guests.
This figure will be ted by Lanier~ Pratt,
Louisville, Ky., and Miss Florence Pitts,
of Spartanburg, S. C. The other, Juniors
appearing in the figure are: Lynn Huie,
Charlie Rives, John Lafferty, Duck Powell,
Fred Smyre, Miller Cochran, Ed Humphrey,
Alex Schenck, Ralph Smith, Mack Holland,
Madison Armistead, Buck Kirkland, Lyman
Clardy, Jim Harris, and T. Hooke McCallie,
The figure will be unique in that it will be
one of the first to be presented at a-Junior
Speaking dance, and also that it will be
presented in the form of a Grand March.
A novel arrangement has been made for
the presentation of corsages to the young
ladies participating. >

The feature of the Saturday night dance

_will be the crowning of the Queen of Love

and Beauty. The Queen will be chosen by
popular election from the floor, and will be
crowned by a special group from the Junior
class. Pictures of the Queen and of several
other of the most beautiful girls present
will appear in the Sunday edition of both
the Charlotte News and the Charlotte Ob-
server, as well as in other outstanding

explained. Nations are learning that the |

disinterested third party and’to accept his '

newspapers in the state.

Tickets are on sale throughout the entire
week at the price of $3.00, and may be ob-
tained from any of the following: Lynn
Huie, Adolphe Rachal, Cal Kuykendall, Odi
'Casali, Fred Smyre, Ed Humphrey, Ralph
Smith, Miller Cochran, Alex Schenck, John
Lafferty, Duck Powell, and Charlie Rives.

The Junior class has been working _stead-
ily to make the week-end successful, having
initiated their efforts at the Junior Smoker,
j held during the month of February. Dur-
ing this smoker, the following committees
were appointed: Advertising and Tickets,
John Lafferty, chairman; Decorations,

growing apace there js a hopesthat—we-are
‘inanother great period of transition.

R. O. T. C. was discussed pro and con,
but the majority of those present. seemed
to agree that it was a good thing and a
great factor in our national defense. How-
ever, the feeling of the group was that na-
tional defense is only a temporary pre-
ventory of war, and that permanent peace
can only come when the people of the world
have been educated by the teachings of
Christ to a desire for it.

Blondell is the girl who is both good and
bad.

Tuesday, March,14—Girl Missing

This cne is a thriller. Queer events hap-
pen on a thrilling wedding night. Mystery,
intrigue and comedy make this picture. Ben
Lyon, Mary Brian, Glenda Farrell are the
leaders. Guy Kibbee, Peggy Shannon, and

Lyle Talbot add good support. This should
be good.

Charlie Rives, chairman; Crowning of the
Queen, Lynn Huie, chairman.

DAVIDSON-FLORIDA DEBATE TO
BE HELD HERE SAT, NIGHT

(Continued from page 1)

will debate Rollins College. On next Satur-
day afternoon at 3:00 o’clock the same team
will take the negative side of the question
previously mentioned against the Univer-
sity of Florida at Gainesville. This debate
will be broadcast over the radio station,
WRUF.

On Thursday, the 9th of this month,
Charlie Moore and Hugh Hawkins will leave
for a debating tour of the more western
states, taking the affirmative side of the
same question as stated before. On.the 10th
they will debate the University of Ten-
nessee at Knoxville. On the 15th they will
debate Sewanee University at Sewanee,
Tenn. On the 16th they will have a return
debate with Emory University at Atlanta,
Georgia.

GEO. W. LAPITZ
Factory Representative

TAILORING DISPLAY at the Soda Shop
EVERY THURSDAY

Star Direct Tailors - $23.50 Up

B. O. RAVENEL
Student Representative

© Davidson Theatre

THURSDAY

WEDNESDAY

“KING OF THE JUNGLE”
BUSTER CRABBE — FRANCES DEE

AND FRIDAY

“STATE FAIR”
WILL ROGERS — JANET GAYNOR — LEW AYRES

widely Rear MA UiAg sung rea oy SATURDAY
all over the Unit tates, but ;
before many of the papi ¢ Ev. “SAILOR’S LUCK”
rope. MONDAY
; “BROADWAY. DAD”
e ; JOAN BLONDELL—GINGER ROGERS—RICHARD CORTEZ
Have your poodle : at TORSDAY
DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP “GIRL MISSING”
Work done while you wait. | GLENDA FARRELL — BEN LYON — MARY BRIAN
C. A. KENNEDY, Proprietor

