THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 12, 1933

’CAT NINE PLANS
SIX-GAME CAMPAIGN
DURING HOLIDAYS

THE SPORTS PARADE

DAVIDSON CINDERMEN
ENCOUNTER ’GATORS AT
GAINESVILLE SATURDAY

FIRING AT RANDOM

CASKIE NORVELL, Jr.

Coach Laird’s boys continued the good
work during the past week, with three
more victories added to the string. This
gives them four wins in as many starts.
The 20-8 massacre of the Lenoir-Rhyne
team showed that the local apple knoek-

ers could bat.

Shaky fielding put George Baily in a bad
hole at the start of the game with Union
but the slugging coterie backed him up,
and the ’Cats overcame a four-run handicap
to turn back the Preachers, 9 to 4. South-
paw Baily pitched brilliant ball thereafter,
allowing the Virginians but two bingles in
the latter seven innings.

“Whimpy” Ravenel, utility “man de-
luxe, crashed the spotlight when he
started the Seminary rally by driving in
three runs with a flaming single. He
and Ken Weeks filled in for the Sem-
inary as some of their players were a bit
tardy in arriving for the game. Of a
certainty, if “Whimpy” continues doing
his teammates that way, the coach will
be forced to do something about it.

The Wildkitten nine took a trio of nice
lacings last week, dropping scraps to Motint
Pleasant Collegiate Institute, Charlotte High
School, and Louisburg College. In the for-
mer, Jenkins, pitching for Davidson, fanned
fourteen Cadets, but poor support in the
pinches served to defeat him, 5 to 2. The
affair with the high school was a free slug-
ging game, ending 17 to 9.

The tennis team swung into action
during the past week and won two out
of three matches played on a southern
tour. South Carolina bowed to the
Wildcats, _while the locals dropped
matches to Georgia Tech and Emory.
Billy Reese, Cotton States singles cham-
pion, turned back Jimmy Halverstadt,
top ranking Davidson player, in the Da-
vid Tech ter.

The yearling racqueteérs opened their sea- |
turning back the Dar-

son auspiciously by
lington netters in a close match. Potts, num-
ber one for the prep school boys, turned in
the best tennis of the day, by tripping Lewis
in the feature singles match of the after-
noon.

The track team remained idle during
the past seven days. However, the cin-
dermen are planning an invasion of
Gainesville to take on the highly-touted
Florida ’Gators, who will be minus the
services of the famous Joe Hall, decath-
lon champion.

The freshman track team was barely a
winner in a triangular meet with Charlotte
High and Winston-Salem High as the other
participants. Frazier and Ras Evans again

took the spotlight by grabbing off two first |
places apiece. Johnnie Pearse also came in|

for due recognition, taking first place in the
javelin throw, thus deciding the meet in fa-
vor of the ’Kittens.

A sure sign of spring is the beginning
of inter-class baseball. The old pastime
has gotten into full swing on the dia-
mond between Chambers and Dormitory
Row, and the league is functioning, with
the champions yet to be crowned, and
a hot race is in progress.

A Davidson team, often neglected, has
shown up exceptionally well this year. I
refer to the rifle team. Very few people
seem to be interested in ‘what the Davidson
rfile team is doing. These boys have had
an excellent season, and deserve your praise.
Nice going, fellows.

Congratulations are in order for Fred
Dickerson, star Davidson athlete. Fred
has just been appointed director of ath-
letics and head football and basketball
coach at Lees-McRae Junior College
next year. Don King, also a Davidson
man, held this position during the past
year.

In their only match during the past week,
the Davidson golfers met defeat at the hands
of the University of Georgia. The Bulldogs
are noted for their fine representation on
the links, and they had a hard time sending
back the ’Cats 10% to 7%. Jack Wagner,
at number one for the locals, shot a sub par
round of 71, and-won over his opponent 7
and 5. He was also highly instrumental in

Davidson Downs Lenoir-
Rhyne in Slugging Duel
With a Score of 20 to 8

Mills’ Homer in First Scores Mock and
Peabody ed oe
ea

HARRIS AND. WEST PITCH

Little and Hughes Are Leading Hit-
ters for Lenoir-Rhyne

The Davidson varsity batted hard last
Thursday to pound out a 20 to 8-victory over
the Lenoir-Rhyne Bears.

In the course of the game the Wildcats
touched three opposing pitchers for a total
of 18 base hits. The ’Cats were in the lead
from the first inning when Buck Mills’ home

run scored Mock and Peabody ahead of
him,
Mackorell, Mills, and Morris led the hit-

|ting for the afternoon, Mackorell got four
|for six, Mills aaa for five, and Morris got

i

|three for four, including a homer.

| For Lenoir-Rhyne, Little with three for
three, and ‘Hughes with three for five led
the stick wielders. Harris, pitching for Da-
| vidson, had a good afternoon, giving up but
/11 scattered hits during the seven innings
he pitched. West, who relieved him, al-
lowed only two hits.

The Wildcats had no big inning, but scored
consistently throughout the game. Lenoir-
Rhyne scored five of their eight runs in the
seventh,

The box score:

Davidson Ab R H OA
MOCKERE Detecceaccscccsccene joey Jase ey aa |
BumeAnnetecbiseosececesesc. ON Op acne
LEAN BYexehiey aL, peepee gages fied Pras ees 200)
\J G. Morrison, If ------.-~< JW
MaCKONCII Gb) auseseses cone Gee oe a)
SMR ODi se ata oe tO  @ @
IMOtRany ttc se saneetones 6527-22 020)
| Mills, SGtacscsceescecenneesos he COMIC me
IPMORRS; lb ieteeu cme neces 23 45 73) -=3.- Ne 20
J; Di Morrison, cf 22--2---2 62215 20-22-40
IWiGEKS Hi Chin eee nese Sa © @ i
IWINItIE\, On ooeae eins eee ae teri eee |
WB UBS Ones eee tooo ace OH OM @ -it
| Harris, OEE PREY poy snp epee o ay gaan’) hae | ) ns)
Wiest spe socoe soa saseec ees to YQ ou WY
| Motalsywtscesosesase aus 47 20 18 27 8
| Lenoir-Rhyne Ab R HOA
| Newton, tiers pam (basis Letcaly ates)
Wo vistenfiewset Seo aoe! 1 21-02-00
FLOEYS2, jee eee a ee) ay ea
EUsh esc=2b sas. ae be 2 Be ag
(Msittlepso fe oe ee es Shel 3) 0 20
NStotlernGt cet 66 seen cence 2 0020
DStibyy, ch) eee ee ee A (es (0
Gath Gb! seos eos eeasbeuse 100) 70) 31-320
BaVne@yiChe ener a eeerce nso. Oz Ora 0)
Bumgaronery lie eens cenee 42-16-70,
Barkley cb) 2.2 ceeeeo ess Aes ele 740),
Overcihy 2b: S2222 22 ceca a0 ee]
Sanders, 2b-3b _..-2-....=- (REV Pans peg)
Muttlesaps 2osssssseseoesosns 0 0 0 0 0
Miessimetiy pi se sseeconcoss 20-8
FOMMeN epee ince oe ee oes 1 00 0 A
|
| Motals 2 see es 40 8 13 24 8
Home runs: Mills, Morris. Double play:
Mills to Mock to Morris. Struck out: by

| Harris 1, Smith 1. Hits: off Harris 11 in 7
| innings, off West 2 in 2, Tuttle 4 in 2, Mesi-
|mer 8 in 4, Smith 7 in 3, Base on balls: off
Harris 1, Tuttle 2, Mesimer 5, Smith 2.
| Winning pitcher: Harris; losing pitcher:
Tuttle. Umpire: Barbare.

Wildkittens Lose to.
Mount Pleasant, 5- 2

| The Davidson Wildkittens met their first
| defeat when they tackled the Mount Pleas-
ant Falcons. The, Falcons came out on’ top
with a score of 5 to 2. This makes three
out of four victories for the Mount Pleas-
ant diamond men.

The Davidson freshmen let down their
pitcher by making six errors, while Jenkins,
pitcher, struck out fourteen men, and let
only eight hits get by him.

Mount Pleasant has begun a trip, playing
all the freshman teams in the state. These
will include the North Carolina freshmen
and other colleges in the state.

Score by innings:

Wavidsony {oe esee tee 100 100 000—2
Mount Pleasant ~------------- 000 101 12x—5

Batteries: Jenkins and Senter; Alexander
and Hahn.

winning three more points, pairing with
Captain Caldwell to turn in a best ball score

of 67.

1|

Wildcat Nine Rallies to
Defeat Union Seminary

Preachers Score Four Runs in Second
Inning and Grab an Early
Lead

Coach “Red” Laird’s Wildcat nine defeated
Union Seminary Saturday, after. tallies in
the fourth, sixth, and eighth innings enabled
them to overcome a four-run lead and chalk
up nine runs to the visitors’ four.

Singles by Price, Roberts, Kidd and Law-
rence in.the second inning set the Preach-
ers off to their four-run lead, but this was
halted and George Baily, ’Cat  left-
hander, conquered his wildness to pitch
superb ball for the remaining seven cantos.

soon

The Wildcats scored one run in the sec-
ond stanza, but not until the fourth were
they able to hit the. spheroid to any avail.
In this period, Morgan, Morrison, Whitley
and Baily hit for one base each, accounting
for three scores,

Two innings later Morrison slapped out
a double, which was followed by singles on
the part of Morris and Whitley, sending in
two more runs.

Later in the contest,
Jumgarner hit the

Whitley,
Seminaty

Baily and
hurler for

‘three singles to score a trio of counters.

Baily allowed the Parsons only six hits,
four of which were garnered in that disas-
trous second inning.

Atkins, visiting pitcher, was tapped for 15
blows by the “Lairdmen.” Morrison and
Whitley got three knocks apiece, while
Mackorell and Baily came through for two
cach to lead the day’s batting.

Union Ab R HOA E
BRIGG ysl foe eb 0 28700
RODGhtSassressccccccrol4 Orne ley a)
WATKINS rap eeasencnoen Or 020220 (63.20
Mrecinaty lb) eeeececueco 70) 0) = 5 0).
Kennedy, 3b —--.------ 405 A 20 26st
BURR Ch cussecucese eso 20.0. 0220
Mottett;-2b-—=---------2-_ 104-12
WiddbaG feseocaececcuen ele Se 5s Oe 20,
lea Wiel Ge; ativeanensecce 4 el 20 0
Totals eae 220002 ads Ole e4 ee 7 8
Davidson Ab R H OA E
Mockwe2b :cscccce shee 4-60) Ol 22 0
Bumgarner, 2b ~__--_- 12202 31 S108 21
ReabodyaliveccocssssooSie Ore ll 25 00)
MACK ORG ieGb. eaeceeceso, 0, 2hes2e 4 aa]
Monrantetioessces.one ss 4 1 eg Oe 0
IMG |S yeaig Geran Ge a lee ee 10)
DMVLGNSSo sone eees ORs Oe 2: 40--20
IMORLIS\st Ds soseeese ss 4 LS 6c 230)
UreDeMorrisonvich 22524, .0.. 68 «6. 0) 20
WiNtley ache weccoues = Ge 3. a7 la)
BAU Vinpseseanpas (seen C Halo) Wenrwre-Peow| | Jeo, Dae)
Motals secs es 80 OR 27 leg,
Wintiontee ses see eese a ed 040 000 000—4
DavidS6ia ss eee eae ae 010 302 03x—
Two base hits: Morrison, Peabody. Stolen
bases: Mackorell, Morrison. Double plays,
Roberts to Moffett to Freeman. Left on
bases, Union Seminary 4, Davidson 6. Base
‘on balls: off Atkins 0, Baily 5. Struck out:
hy Atkins 5, Baily 6. Umpires: Mathis and

McEver. Time: 2:05.

My Greatest Thrill

AS TOLD BY BUCK MILLS

My greatest thrill, I think, came in the
Davidson-The Citadel game during the foot-
ball season of 1931. I was a sophomore
then, and as I had suffered a shoulder in-
jyry in the first game of the season, it was
the first game I had started in since that
time. “Monk” had me playing at the safety
position, and the opening kickoff landed
squarely in my arms, so I checked out, and
the next thing that I was conscious of was
The Citadel’s 15-yard line. Later on in the
game I, got loose again, but I believe that
this was my greatest thrill.

Allen L. “Buck” Mills hails from States-
ville, where he was a prominent athlete be-
fore entering Davidson. Since he has been
at Davidson he has established himself as
a splendid athlete. He won numerals in
football and baseball in his freshman year.
For three years he has had a place on the
varsity football and baseball teams, playing
halfback on the’former and shortstop on
the latter. He is president of the “D” Club,
and has served as vice-president of the Ath-
letic Association.

The Nazies are post-war youngsters. They
are the underfed jobless kids of 16 to 22,
who don’t fear war because they don’t know

what it is like—Edward Dahlberg.
|

g| game

Freshman Track

Davidson Drops Golf
Match With. Georgia

The University of Georgia golf team de-
feated the Davidson College linksmen in
Charlotte Monday, by a team score of 10%
to 7%. Jack Wagner, Davidson number one,
turned in the best medal score of the day,
shooting a 71, one under par.

Summary:

Individual: Wagner (Davidson) defeated
MacWilliams (Georgia), 3 points to 0.

Captain Caldwell (Davidson) halved his
match with Warner (Georgia), at 1% points
each.

Slaughter (Georgia) defeated Manson
(Davidson), 3 points to 0.
Johnson (Georgia) defeated Thompson

(Davidson), 3 points to 0.
Best ball: Wagner-Caldwell defeated Mac-
Williams-Warner, 3 points to 0.
Slaughter-Johnson defeated Manson-
Thompson, 3 points to 0.

Tennis Team Returns
From Southern Tour

In its southern tour, the Davidson tennis
team met Emory University, Georgia Tech,
and the University of South Carolina on
April 6, .7, and 8, respectively. The Wild-
cat netmen were defeated by the first two
but managed to edge out a victory over
the South Carolinians. Detailed report -of
the individual matches follows:

At Emory University, Frank Morrison of
Emory defeated Tom Phifer, 6-1, 4-2, Rain
halted both this match and that of S, R.

tridges and D. B. Elvery, which resulted
in favor of Bridges of Emory with a score
of 6-4,°6-1, Charlie Myers of Davidson de-
feated McDaniels of Emory, 6-2, 5-2. The
remainder of the matches were rained out.

Georgia Tech scored a victory over the
Wildcats to the tune of 4 to 2. Billy Reese,
Cotton States singles champion, defeated
Jimmy Halverstadt, 8-6, 4-6, 6-4. This match
proved especially thrilling, as Halverstadt
threatened to overturn the scoring with set
points three or four times. Charlie Myers
defeated Crawford —of Tech, 6-3, 3-6, 6-1.
Thompson beat West of Tech, 6-3, 6-3, Jack-
son of Tech beat Elvery, 6-4, 3-6, 6-3. Rivers
of Tech beat Phifer; 6-0, 7-5. Keiser of Tech
defeated Morrow, 1-6, 7-5, 6-3. Then for the
doubles, Halverstadt and Myers _ played
Reese and Crawford of Tech, ending in a
tie of one set each at nightfall. Thompson
and Elvery were playing West and Jackson
of Tech, and each had one set when the
was called off at darkhess. For the
third doubles team, Phifer and Morrow
played Keiser and Rivers of Tech, the Geor-

ing nine-all in games when the match was
called off at darkness, also.

At South Carolina, Halverstadt
Killingsworth of South Carolina, 6-3, 3-6,
8-6.. Moore of Carolina defeated Myers, 7-5,
7-3. Thompson defeated Ellison of Carolina,
7-9,.6-1, 6-4. Elvery defeated Powell of Caro-
lina, 6-1, 6-2. Mann of Carolina defeated
Phifer, 3-6, 9-7, 11-9. Morrow defeated Good-
ing of Carolina, 6-2, 6-2. In the doubles
matches, Halverstadt “and Myers defeated
Killingsworth and Moore of Carolina, 6-8,
6-2, 6-3. Ellison and Powell of Carolina de-

gians winning one set, and the last set stand-|

defeated

feated Thompson and Elvery, 6-2, 6-3. Good.)

Team Cops

Honots in Triangular Meet

Wildkittens Nose Out Out Charlotte and
Winston-Salem in Close and In-
teresting Meet

EVANS AGAIN LEADS WAY

Frazier Takes Two Firsts, Winning
in Mile and 440

The Davidson freshman track team con-
tinued to show its heels to opponents Sat-
urday as it nosed out Charlotte High by
three points and won over Winston-Salem,
the third team entered in this triangular
meet.

When the cinders settled, the Wildkittens
were atop a score of 61 to Charlotte’s 58
and Winston-Salem’s 24. The Davidson
tracksters took seven first places, while
Charlotte gathered four and- Winston-Sa-
lem two.

Ras Evans and Earl Frazier led the Da-
vidson runners, Evans with his customary
victories in the century and the furlong
events, and Frazier with wins in the mile
and the 440.. Byrd of Winston-Salem also
took two firsts, winning the 220 low hurdles
and the 120 high hurdles.

Summary:

100-yard dash: Evans (Davidson) first;
Faison (Davidson) second; Graves (Char-
lctte) third; McNulty (Winston-Salem)
fourth. Time: 10.2,

Mile run: Frazier (Davidson) first; Morse
(Charlotte) second; Merchant (Davidson)
third; Hinson (Charlotte) fourth. Time:
4 :38.4.

120-yard high hurdles: Byrd (Winston)
first; Isenhour (Charlotte) second; Cathey
(Davidson) third; Parker (Davidson)
fourth. . Time: 16.6,

220-vard dash: Evans (Davidson) first;
Faison (Davidson) second; Graves (Char-
lotte) third; McNulty (Winston). fourth.
Time: 23 flat.

Shot put: Pickard (Charlotte) first; E.
Helms (Charlotte) second; Windham (Da-
vidson) third; C» Hélms (Charlotte) fourth.
Distance: 44 feet, 8 inches.

440-yard dash: Frazier (Davidson) first;
Smathers (Winston) second; Fraley (David-
son) third; Moffett (Charlotte) fourth. Time:

54 flat.
Pole vault: Dolan, Lee, and Pittman (all
of Davidson) tied for first; McClintock

(Continued on page 6)

ing and Mann of Carolina defeated Morrow
and Phifer, 6-4, 6-4.

The netmen will enter the State Meet held
at Duke, April 17, 18, and 19. After that,
they will begin their northern trip and re-
turn to the campus.

NOTICE
Have your shoes rebuilt at the
DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP

Work done while you wait.
Cc. A. KENNEDY, Proprietor

v

Some Come Sooner, Some Later

Eventually ALL
Johnson’s Barber Shop

a
eo

Outfitters :

SPRING and SUMMER
CLOTHING
At Prices That Will Be Aitractive

IDEY'S
DAVIDSON _.
SHOP

for College
Bous

