THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 26, 1933

The PDabidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY -THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office at Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

ODI CASALI Editor-in-Chief
A. M. MANSON. Business Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF

G. L. GULLETTE i ;
E. F. McBHAIL seaging Eqitor
K. D. WEEKS spa binpeeaiece
Cc itor
VE itor

Exchange Editor
Feature Editor
Cisseadssuccbescauslecscddbacewase Feature Editor
--Feature Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

We dy JOBNSONidcccscisscitwce Assistant Business Manager
A. H. MANSON ~-Assi ines: H
J. M. DOUGLAS secpulnmewonabiie Si 5
G. L. GREEN... --Solicitor
W. _P. SPRUNT- --Solicitor
j R. TAYLOR......_. Solicitor
As CAWADS WORTH evs caceee aot uaat ae ces Solicitor
=—————[—$$——=>S=SS=———
REPORTERS’ CLUB
E. L. POWELL...-. ---President
D. -B, BAILEY........... Vice-President
SAM it Wate Snvedusdcccsccuacuusuceoeed, Secretary-Treasurer
. W. MAN W. C. NEILL
B. C. BARNES ACK PLUNKETT
BILL OGER RILEY

ADDISON BRENIZER
LAMONT BROWN P. M. ROGERS

J. H. ROSS
CHARLES SUTLIVE
T. H. SUTTON

BILL GOODYKOONTz W. T, THOMPSON
D. GUERRANT OHN WALKER
PAUL HARLAN . W. WALLACE

J; A. HUNTER. W. WHITE

CARLYLE LEWIS . F. WOOD

rf L. McCLINTOCK ED WOOTEN
ILL MERCHANT FIELDS YOUNG

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 26, “1933

From a bad beginning comes a bad end.
—Enuripides.

LITERARY MAGAZINE

The scarcity of creative literary work on the
part of Davidsonians, and the-feeling that there
is considerable talent in the student body along
this line has given rise to not 4 little interest
of late. As a means of replenishing this very
real deficiency, a plan is on foot to publish a
short literary magazine on or about May 15.
Contributions are solicited from any member
of the student group who cares to write.

A secondary purpose of this project will be
to afford a means of ascertaining the zeal of
the student body towards the college maga-
zine. It is imperative that it be decided in
some way whether the future Yowls will be
all literary, all humorous or a combination of
the two factors. As most of us know, the
Yow! is but three years old, having taken the
place of the former Chameleon, in which in-
terest seemed to be dying. A ballot of the
students may be taken to determine their
wishes as to the future publication.

The Yowl staff, instigators. of this-move-
ment, will be ably assisted in| the undertak-
ing by a committee from Sigma Upsilon, hon-
orary literary fraternity. Acceptable articles
will be chosen from all fields: poetry, plays.
short-short stories, etc., and all submitted ma-
terial must be in the hands of the editor be-
fore May 10.

Publication of this magazine as it is now
planned will necessitate the selling of enough
advertisements to cover the cost of its edition.
At present it is not known whether this can
be done, though no effort is being spared.

Davidson men are encouraged and urged to
support this movement to produce a represen-
tative Davidson magazine.

—M. Reeves Pope.

IT’S UP TO US

We, Davidson students recently elected and
installed our new student body officers for the
coming year. We have chosen our leaders—
our student body president, our Y. M. C. A.
president, our class presidents, our department
presidents, our editors and their staffs. All
these men we have chosen from among our-
selves to-fill their respective places. We have
given them the task of leading and guiding
us. Now it is up to us to follow.

Shall we sit back and watch them struggle
along unaided, unsupported, unappreciated?

hall we show no interest in our Student
Council and our Honor System; shall we fail
to do our part of our “Y” work; shall we turn
deaf ears to our editors? If we shall, then
why do we chpose new men to lead us; when
we refuse to follow?

Without the whole-hearted interest and siip-
port of every man in the student body, the
most diligent and sincere work on the part
of the few who are in charge will amount to
very little. .-

A student body should be composed of lead:--
ers and supporters. One group is inseparable
‘from the other. One is absolutely impotent
without the other. To accomplish the best

results, leaders and supporters must work to-
gether; each naturally interested in the other.

At the installation services last Saturday
night, the new officers assumed their respon-
sibilities for the coming year, and pledged
their best efforts to their new work. How-
ever, the best efforts of our new leaders will
be of no avail without the earnest co-opera-
tion and help of the student body. .

By the interest in the recent elections and
the large turnout for the installation services,
we, Davidson students, expressed a willing-
ness to render this support to our new leaders.

FRESHMAN VOTING

This Friday at the chapel hour, Davidson
studénts will vote on an amendment of Ar-
ticle I, Section 3 of the Davidson College Con-
stitution, proposed by the recently retired Stu-
dent Council. The proposed amendment states
that “Freshmen become members of the Stu-
dent Body with full .rights to vote, immedi-
ately upon the installation of the president of
their rising Sophomore class,” and it is de-
signed to ‘eliminate certain evils which seem
to exist in local student body elections.

Two main reasons have been given by those
who want the amendment passed. They claim
first that the “greenies” are not familiar nor
acquainted with the abilities of the eligible
candidates and therefore cannot cast a fair
and intelligent vote; and second, that the
yearlings are easily persuaded by their upper-
classman friends to vote for the latter’s candi-
date. Passage of the amendment, they claim,
will eliminate the existing evils and bring clean
elections back on the hill.

Depriving freshmen of the right to vote will
not eliminate election evils as the proposers
think. The Freshman class each year com-
prises about one-third of the Davidson student
body. Deprive this one-third of the right to
vote and what have you left among the other
two-thirds who have the right to vote? The
same evils will still exist. There will still be
upperclassmen who are not familiar with the
abilities of the different candidates and who
vote for their favorite. There will still. be
those upperclassmen politicifins who will con-
tinue to persuade.

We judge candidates eligible for office by

the service which they ‘have contributed. A
candidate, whose ability is not known by his
classmates, has not served his classmates to
any great extent and therefore does not get
their considerations. Since freshmen are the
ones among the students who need the most
help, they are better fitted to vote for the man
who has served than the rest .of the student
body.
Ingtead of depriving freshmen of the right
to vote and still leave the election evils, the
Student Council should investigate the upper-
classman politicians and penalize the ones who
are guilty.

HILL RAIDIN’

Agnes Scott

The registration of all delegtaes at 12 o’clock noon
on April 20, in the main building at Agnes Scott
College in Decatur, marked the opening of the tenth
annual Southern Students’ Conference on Interna-
tional Relations, sponsored jointly by Agnes Scott and
Emory University, with members of the International
Relations Clubs of the two schools serving as hosts.
Between twenty~ant@thirty schools were represented
at the conference, which extended through Saturday
morning, April 22. :

University of Wisconsin

When the alumni of the University of Wiscorisin
erected a $1,250,000 student clubhouse as a war me-
morial on the campus four years ago, they included
in it a German rathskeller as a reminder, of former
days. The scene was reproduced in full, including
the bar from a saloon once frequented by students.

It now appears that the only thing lacking will be
real beer, which university officials have forbidden
to be served there, and that the students will con-
tinue to get only milk, and other soft drinks across
the bar.

CURRENT EVENTS IN
~ NATURE

By BILL WARD

If you hear a loud, interrogative “What?” on the
campus some morning soon, do not be alarmed. It
merely means that the Crested Flycatchers have
reached Davidson.

The migration of the Hummingbird, however, is
far surpassed by the Arctic Tern, which is the cham-
pion migrant of the world. These birds breed about
the Arctic Ocean and in Alaska and Northern Can-
ada. But when winter comes and, the breeding
grounds are subjected to a few months of darkness,
the terns move south on a 10,000-mile trip, and spend
the winter in the Antarctic Ocean. Thus the Arctic
Tern sees more hours of daylight than any other
creature in the world.

This 10,000-mile trip, undertaken twice a year, is
one of the marvels of migration. Since most of it is
over the open sea, it is hard to explain, how a bird,
several sizes smaller than a crow, can make such a
flight.

WHO, ME?

NEWS DIGEST

“And the. grass is getting greener every day!” So
it is; so it is. It’s the time of year when many (far

, too many) quote the good but hackneyed lines from

Bfowning’s Pippa Passes and end by really thinking
“all’s right with the world.” It’s the kind of weather
that brings out the Rousseau in me, I could turn
“noble savage” with no trouble at all.

“The Bowery Baw!” was more or less to the extent
that it was more more than less. The costumes, if
nothing else, were living examples of the sense of
fitness or something of the Davidson student body.
With all of them taken into consideration, including
the French fencing master and the counterpart of
Marlene Dietriech in his skirt and beret, the com-
posite was certainly capable of leaving a lasting im-
pression.

The picture “Cavalcade” is quite up to par. The
English do things with such nice restraint. One sees
great crowds watching the funeral procession of
Queen Victoria but never the procession itself.

The positively quaint cover of a book, “I Dare
You!” attracted me not so very long ago. It’s even
quainter inside than out. But who am I to cast a
stone? I don’t even like Dickens and Carlyle.

Recently after the third I was to see an acquaint-
ance. He wasn't, so I have written, wasn’t either.
His roommate is a person who constantly allows his
studies to interfere with his education. He even stud-
ies a thing before it has been taken up on class, when
the logical thing for me to do is to wait until after
the professor’s discussion so that I have the benefit
of his lecture when I try to cope with some impend-
ing problem.

s ascii et

Two or three people whom I know have professed
to be graduates of the N. A. L.’(National Academy
of Liats). One of them in particular lies, or com-
poses, quite gracefully. He doesn’t reserve his potent
ability for moments in which he is hard pressed, as
it were, but is of the philanthropic nature and rather
gives the world constant opportunity to appreciate
him at his best; he lies for the sheer joy of it. It’s
the “are gratia artis” attitude. ee

Ezra Pound’s “A Draft of Cantos” may, in the lan-
guage of the modernist, be called typically heavy.
The American edition is so prudishly censored, how-
ever, that reading it is somewhat like trying to solve
the proverbial puzzle of the Chinese. With all the
liberalness of Bostonians, words have been substituted
by dots so that the finished product looks like the
first draft:of a design by Adrian.

I have lately been troubled with sleep. It’s not
that I myself sleep. Oh, my no. I’d much rather stay
awake and see what’s happening. (That’s a compli-
ment, I think.) But it is very annoying to call on
people at a respectable hour and find them either in
bed or just before being. I often go skipping into
a room and find it completely dark. Understanding
people who want to sleep half their lives away is be-
yond the comprehension of my feeble mentality. It
séems to me that people don’t really enjoy sleeping
anyway. The only pleasant,part about the,idea is the
short time during which one goes to sleep and the
time at which he wakes up. If this be true, and I
see no reason why it should not be, why is it that
ten o'clock finds many lights out, and why is it that
many people become perfectly furious, even beside
themselves, at being waked up or even the thought
of it?

Little nothings: If Lew Wallace had been H. Rider
Haggard, would “She” have “Ben Hur?” .. . is the
real reason for many people not hiding their lights
under bushels the fact that they have no bushel
wherewithal? ... is the ability to lie well an asset
or a lie (e) ability? ... are some people who won't
pay debts peculiar or pecu (liar)? ... is the reign of
Louis XIV next to that of Peppi I in length? ...
should one give too much food to gold fish and allow
the excess poison the water thereby killing the fish,
or should one in his anxiety to give just enough give
too little and cause the larger fish to eat the smaller
ones? ... why does an audience change its position
when a speaker calls attention to the fact that he is
launching a new point? ...

Another interesting question concerning migration
is whether or not the same birds return each year
to the same spot. The White-throated Sparrow is
a bird which spends its winters in Southern United
States, and returns North each spring to nest in
New England and Canada. Last winter Rufus Page
and I banded a White-throat behind East Dormitory.
This winter the same bird, with our numbered band,
was found dead near the laundry. The little fellow
was within a hundred yards of the spot where we
had banded him eleven months before.

Most of our campus woodpeckers have quit their
frivolity, and have settled down to the serious busi-
ness of excavating a nesting cavity. It has always
been a puzzle as to how a woodpecker can dig a hole

that is so nearly round. A circle is a difficult figure -

to. draw free hand, and yet the majority of wood-
pecker holes are almost perfect circles.

Among the bird arrivals from the South last week
were: Prairie Warblers, Ruby-throated Humiming-
birds, Crested Flycatchers, and House Wrens. The
latter were probably passing though, and will nest
further north, ~

THE RECENT TRIAL in Moscow of the six Brit-
ish electrical engineers charged with espionage, brib-
ery, and sabotage has stirred up quite a bit of trouble
between the two countries. Although the sentences
were light with only two getting prison terms, the
British people have taken the matter much to heart.
Sympathy for L. C. Thornton and W. L. MacDonald,
the two convicted men, was widely manifested and
the privy council was immediately summoned to pro-
claim an embargo on Russian imports.

THE INCOME TAX payers will rejoice to learn
that the newly legalized beer is expected to add more
than $125,000,00 annually to the U, S. coffers. If such
is the case, the amber-colored liquid has come to stay.

TYPICAL of the previous boldness and audacity
of F. D. R., he has recently withdrawn the support
of the American dollar abroad and shortly after this
radical step, Secretary of the Treasury Woodin an-
nounced that the U. S. had-abandoned the gold stand-
ard. Woodin says, “the whole matter is official
abandonment of the gold standard.”

The new gold embargo has had the effect of push-
ing up commodity prices. The stock market rose
quickly and frenzied buying and selling began. The
rush in Wall Street is now greater than at any time
since the beginning of the depression.

THE BOOMING SECURITY and commodity
markets have already begun to make an impression
on the American pocketbook. The sharp rise in prices
with continued trading on a high scale had its first
effect upon the housewife. Bread in New York went
up two cents with a corresponding rise in other goods.
And they are still rising.

GLENN L. MARTIN, head of the Martin Aviation
Corporation, has advanced a new theory to account
for the fact that no trace of the Akron has been
found and also that 60-odd men of its crew are still:
missing. "

He thinks that a part of the Akron may have free-
ballooned away on the heels of the storm which was
sweeping out to sea. If this theory is true it is the
same thing that happened to a part of the Shenan-
doah when it crashed in 1928. ;

The fact that the Akron was never found in a
scant 100 feet of water gives us a faint ray of hope.
The theory is plausible and no other explanation of
this phenomena has been offered thus far. Let us
hope that the dirigible has simply floated out of
reach of the regular steamer lines and will soon be
discovered elsewhere, although at best this is a vain

hope.

THE NEW GIANT dirigible, Macon, sister ship
of the Akron, made its trial flight recently with 105
persons aboard, It is now the biggest airship in
existence, 785 feet long, and it typifies the determina-
tion of the Navy not to be discouraged by anything.

The crew was silent-as-the great ship swung from
its hangar. The memory of the Akron disaster was
too near to them for any kind of celebration, but as
the great ship was safely grounded after its flight
the small crowd of spectators burst into cheers. Light-
er-than-air craft is being built bigger and better than
ever and we are not yet ready to give up.

THE RAPID GROWTH of the inflationary senti-
ment during the past few months is not astonishing.
The country has recently been subjected to the super-
deflationary effects of. bank closings, contraction of
purchasing power, and the abdication of the Federal
Reserve system.

There is a point in the fall of prices where it be-
comes impossible to fix charges, reduce wages, gOv-
ern expenditures and at the same time preserve an
equilibrium. Readjustments are necessary but these
are also impossible because they force down money
incomes faster than the readjustments can be made.

The strain of a badly adjusted equilibrium is more
than a democratic people can bear and the first thing
that gives way is the gold value of the currency.

WINNIE RUTH JUDD, tried and convicted for
the brutal murder of Agnes Leroi, was found insane
and sent to a state asylum instead of to, the noose.
She would have been hanged April 28th. Mrs. Judd
was brought before a lunacy commission after her
mother had sworn that there was lunacy in the fam-
ily and the jury of Arizonians later decided in her
favor.

RAMSAY MacDONALD, British prime minister,
arrived in the United States Friday to confer with
President Roosevelt on world conditions in hopes that
some measures might be adopted to insure the speedy
return of currency stabilization and world trade.

He banished with a few kind words the talk of
British enmity toward the U. S. for leaving the gold
standard. He assured reporters that the new em-
bargo on gokl would not hinder the co-operation and
trade of the two countries.

In his message to the press the prime minister says,
“If the world is to get out of its difficulties it must
be by international co-operation. Your President
asked me to come so we can reason together and I
have come.” |

A few mornings ago there was a little Ruby-throat-
ed Hummingbird down town, so exhausted by his
long trip from Central America that he was unable
to fly. Migrating Hummingbirds have been known to
fly 500 miles in a night, and over water at that, with
no opportunity to rest. That is certainly flying for
the smallest of our birds. »
