é

Dean Herring, Prominent
Man at Duke University,
Is Speaker at Vespers

Holds Position of Assistant Dean and
Is Connected With the English
Department

NICHOL CONDUCTS SERVICE

“Lot’s Choice” Was the Subject for
His Interesting Talk

“Lot’s Choice” was the subject of the talk
delivered by Dean Herring of Duke Univer-
sity at the Y. M.-C. A. vesper service last
Sunday night. Dean Herring holds the posi-
tion of assistant dean at Duke University
and is connected with the English depart-
ment. He was one of the most popular
speakers to appear at vespers last year, and
his talk this year presented the same ap-
peal.

Henry Nichol had charge of the service
and after the singing of two hymns he led
the students in. prayer. Bob Orr, accom-
panied at the organ by Bill Hart, rendered
the beautiful and impressive “Largo” as a
violin solo. The speaker was then intro-
duced by Nichol.

Dean Herring began his talk by pointing
out that as we understand the common
things of life, we are better able to meet
the important things that we encounter. He

then reviewed the common story of the
parting of Abraham and Lot. “So Lot chose
him all the plain of Jordan; and Lot jour-
neyed east.” He pointed out that if we look
into this story, laying aside its Biblical po-
sition, we would probably class Lot as a
sharp, shrewd, trained business man, the
man we would want to handle our dollars.
We would probably class Abraham as a
soft-headed and short-sighted business man.

He then went on to show that if we look
. down deep to see what underlay each choice
we would find in Lot selfishness and a love
for power, but we would finally come to
decide that Lot was really short-sighted in
his choice. He was “blinded by the grass.”
He was unable to look over the grass of
material things to see what really lay be-
hind. We find in Abraham’s case a spirit
of unselfishness and a sense of values that
made his name great to his own nation and
the whole world.

Dean Herring pointed out the fact that
Lot’s choice has been made by the people
of the world all down the ages to the final
destruction of the makers. The Roman Em-
pire took Lot’s way and vanished. Napoleon
and the German people were not able “to
see over the grass.” Even here in America
we have been guilty of making Lot’s choice
in our economic life. We as a nation have
looked only at the profits and our only de-
sire is to make it easy for ourselves, and
that was just Lot’s motive when he “pitched
his tent toward the cities of the plain.”

The college man, according to Dean Her-
ring, has the most favorable chance to get
a correct sense of values. The college man
has the leisure and the right atmosphere to
enable him to avoid making Lot’s choice,
but even in our sheltered college life we are
guilty of making the same mistake that Lot
made. We may neglect our physical and
mental selves, blinded by the grass of lazi-
ness. We may also fail to place the right
value-on our social and religious life.

Dean Herring closed by Picturing the fact
that behind Abraham’s choice had led him
to a sense of values that was really worth
while. We can never hope to make our
choices aright unless God’s aid is behind us
to lift us up and allow us to see over the
grass of worthless things to the truly worth-
while things beyond.

Hood’s Class Visits
Morganton Asylum

Dr. Hood’s class in abnormal psychology
visited the state institution for the insane
at Morganton on Wednesday, May 3.

The class of about thirty-eight members
left Davidson about 9:30 Wednesday morn-
ing in automobiles. They arrived in Mor-
ganton at 11:30. At 1:30 the.class went to
the institution, where they assembled in the
office while the patients were brought in
singly. The doctor lectured on the Partic-
ular case, then asked the patient questions
and allowed the members of the class to
ask questions. Four cases were studied in
this way: a woman, suffering from manis
depressive insanity, a man suffering from
mutism, a young dentist and a very inter-
esting case of a man suffering from delu-
sions of grandeur and persecution.

. After observing these cases, the class di-
vided into two parts and went through the
asylum. Each group was led by a doctor.

The class got a great deal of practical
knowledge on diagnosis and treatment on
this trip, and had the opportunity to observe
concrete examples of types that have been
studied.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 10, 1933

Oxford Group Holds
Meeting on Campus

New Religious Movement Introduced
by Group of Visiting Leaders

The Oxford Group was introduced on the
Davidson campus last week with the visit
of three ministers, all deep and concentrated
Christians who have recognized in tits
movement vital and early-church principles
that have lost their place in the maze of
modern-church organization. These men
came at the invitation of Davidson students
who had in various ways come in touch with
the movement and desired to learn more of
it from within.

Dr. Sherwood Day, a leader in the inter-
national movement, has carried to distant
lands the message of Christ. He is a Presby-
terian minister from Hampden-Sydney, Va.,
and was accompanied here by Dr. Levery
Evans, pastor of a Baptist Church of Rich-
mond, Va., and by Rev. George Hammond,
pastor of the Presbyterian Church of Can-
ton.

An open meeting was held Tuesday eve-
ning, and it proved so interesting and prof-
itable that the students requested a similar
meeting be held on the following night.

Dr. Day outlined briefly the history of the
group. It was started about ten years ago
by an American minister, Dr. Frank Buch-
man, then at Cambridge University. He felt
the church had failed to give proper stress
to personal consecration and began his ac-
tivity towards remedying the © situation
among the students there. The movement
got its name, “The Oxford Group,” because
the first group consisted of students from
Oxford University. It is more correctly
called The First Century Christian Fellow-
ship, for, as Dr. Day said, “It is the Church
of Christ at work. It is not an organiza-
tion, but a movement spelled with a little
‘m’.” In applying the truths of Christ, the
group is guided by the fourfold test of ab-
solute love, absolute unselfishness, absolute
honesty, and absolute purity. Anything, in
the problems of life, that clashes with this
standard is promptly dismissed as contrary
to the will of God.

Silver Screen

Wednesday, May 10—Today We Live

Another war story, starring Joan Craw-
ford and Gary Cooper. The action takes
place in England and on the battlefields of
France, during the World War. She goes
to France and falls in love with Gary Coop-
er, forgetting her childhood sweetheart,
Robert Young. At this time, Robert and
Joan’s brother, Franchot Tone, appear, and
the story progresses.

Thursday, May 11—A Bedtime Story

This show is supposed to show the great-
ness and unselfishness of Maurice Chevalier.
As a wealthy French sporting man, he re-
turns from a hunting trip in Africa and finds
that his fiancee does not expect him until
the next day. With this bit of news, he
proceeds to throw a great party, with three
different girls. Returning home, he finds a
waif, Baby LeRoy Weinbrener, in his car.
The servants ask no questions and dress
the baby in Rene’s pajamas and put him to
bed. After this, the engagement is broken,
and Rene gives all his love to the baby.

Friday, May 12—Diplomaniac

This is the latest show produced by
Wheeler and Woolsey. There is no infor-
mation on this picture other than it is sup-
posed to be their best, and this is the first
time it Will be shown in the entire South.

Saturday, May 13—The Story of Temple
Drake

This is the famous, or infamous picture
that George Raft refused to make, claiming
that it would hurt his popularity. Jack La-
Rue took his place, and did the role well,
with no trace of sentiment at all. The story
is of a well-raised young southern girl,
Miriam Hopkins, who leaves a party with
Buster Collier, seeking excitement, to the
disapproval of her fiance, William Gargan;
and falls into the hands of a notorious boot-
legger, Jack LaRue, who plays the part of
Temple Drake.

Monday, May 15—Song of the Eagle

Pre-Med Fraternity |
Addressed by Bailey |

Professor of Greek Delivers Paper on
“Beginnings of Medicine”

“Beginnings of Medicine” is the title of
a most interesting, informing, and enter-
taining paper delivered by Professor John
C. Bailey of the Greek department before
a recent meeting of Pi Delta Alpha pre-
medical fraternity. All present exhibited a
great deal of interest and listened eagerly.
Local officers for next year were elected
at this meeting. Those men chosen to lead
the work for the coming year are: Rufus
C. Morrow, Jr., president; William M.
Brown, vice-president; Rawling Pratt-Thom-
as, secretary, and John H. Fitzgerald, Jr.,
treasurer.

An enjoyable social hour was held imme-
diately following the regular meeting.

all over the religious world. None

N

Z

W0,

Wy
Z

can be done.
P. H. HANES KNITTING

Wy
ZZ

=

cas

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

Richmond, Virginia
B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., LL.D., President
A graduate of Davidson and of Union studying abroad writes:

“There are able scholars here whose books are known and read

professors at Union as teachers, and none of them can challenge a
student to joyous, practical Christianity as did our professors there.”

THE GREATEST
UNDERWEAR VALUE

You can pay more than HANES costs—but you can’t get more.
Just try to match HANES. values.

There’s the Gold Label Light Weight Union Suit or Shirts and
Drawers. SAMSONBACK Athletic Union Suits with the tug-of-war
belt. That’s patented and can’t be imitated. Pull-Over Shirts and
Shorts in a variety that will make it easy for the most fastidious
to choose from. All at prices that will make you wonder how it

This, also, is one of the very newest pic-
tures, and there is no information about it,
except the cast. Charles Bickford, as usual,
plays the hard man, and is assisted by Rich-
ard Arlen and Mary Brian.

Tuesday, May 16—Barbarian

Ramon Novarro’s last picture, showing
him as a dragonman of Egypt. ~Myrna Loy,
as the sophisticated English girl, comes to
Egypt, and Novarro falls in love with her.
Of course she has come to Egypt to marry
Reginald Denny, and this is where the ro-
mance comes jin. At last, Ramon Novarro
persuades Myrna to come to the desert with
him.

Clardy Selected to
‘Head Delta Pi Kappa

At the regular meeting of Delta Pi Kappa,
journalistic fraternity, held last Wednesday
night, the officers for the coming year were
elected. These are: L. W. Clardy, presi-

of them can surpass some of our

frist ttiiiiy ttititititt1iiiirrJ

Wit).
Ys

Ui
Z Wf

Y
Ue

«

Yi
WY

Uy,

Yi,

Ue

CO., Winston-Salem, N.C.”

dent; L. S. Gamble, vice-president; W. M.
Thompson, secretary and treasurer.

Following the election of officers, several
men, outstanding in journalistic work and
managerial ability, were nominated and
passed’ on for membership. These men are:
W. T. Johnson, B. O. Ravenel, A. W. Col-
well, business managers of the publications
for next year; W. L, Fugate, editor of the
Yowl; E. L. Powell, president of the Re-
porters’ Club, and A. H. Manson.

Men Are Chosen to
Write I. R. C. Papers

Articles to Be on Some Subject of
International Interest

Regular meeting of the International Re-
lations Club was held on Friday night,
April 28.

The feature of the meeting was the se-
lection of twenty-three men who, if they
desire to become members of the I. R. C.,,
shall write a paper, 300 to 500 words, on some
subject of international interest. The papers
must be in by May 10th. These papers shall
be carefully read and judged, and from them
the best will be picked and the authors im-
mediately issued bids to this club.

The following men were selected: Don
Baily, Dick Banks, Gordon Brown, Joe Bry-
ant, Barrie Caldwell, Albert Colwell, Joe
Drake, George Gullette, Mack Holland,
Andy Manson, Bradford McLean, Fred Mc-
Phail, Lorenzo McPhail, Jack Plunkett,
William Rachal, Mims Rogers, Ben Rose,
Bob Smith, Walter Sprunt, Rawling Pratt-
Thomas, Tee Thompson, Kenneth Weeks,
Jim White.

Three Editors Lead

Publications Board

The Publications Board for the three stu-
dent-edited publications of Davidson Col-
lege was formed anew after elections were
completed last week, in which Odi Casali,
Jack Williams, and Bill fugate were given
positions for next- year.

These three men, of whom Casali will rep-

resent “The Davidsonian,” Williams the
“Quips and Cranks,” and Fugate “The
Yowl,” will succeed the old board, which

consisted of Bob McCallie, Ed Guerrant and
Reeves Pope.

From the nature of their positions, Odi
Casali and Bill Johnson were up for elec-
tion from “The Davidsonian,” Jack Williams
and Owen Ravenel from “Quips and
Cranks” and Bill Fugate and Bill Colwell
from “The Yowl.”

These three student members, along with
Mr. F. L. Jackson and Professor F. K.
Fleagle, will form the financial board of the
publications for the coming year. This board
regulates the financial end of the publica-
tions, by means of quarterly reports from
the business managers. If a deficit looms
large in the budget of one of the publica-
tions, it is the duty of the board to take
action on this lack of funds.

Modern science is more favorable to the-
ism than to pantheism. The main tradition
of Christian philosophy is not shaken by the
new discoveries—Dean Inge.

What is caviare to the general is usually
only buckshot to the particular—Bennett

Craig.

—Sport

Hickok Belts
Sport Shoes
Sport Pants

Del Park Wash Ties
Linen Knickers
Polo Shirts

IDEY'S
DAVIDSON
SHOP

Wear—

Golf Clubs

ollege
Printing

Magazines,

‘‘PREFERRED PRINTING SERVICE’’

Catalogs,
andbooks, Etc.
Nothing too large or small for our plant—Let us serve you
A. M. MANSON, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE

6,600 Square Feet of Floor Space Devoted to Printing,

Always Best

STANDARD PRINTING CO. CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Programs,

Newspapers, Bulletins,
Engraved Cards and

nvitations,

Exclusively.

“Ss

Davidson Theatre

se

WEDNESDAY, MAY 10

“TODAY WE LIVE”
JOAN CRAWFORD—GARY COOPER
THURSDAY, MAY 11
“BEDTIME STORY”
MAURICE CHEVALIER
FRIDAY, MAY 12
“DIPLOMANIAC”

BERT WHEELER—ROBERT WOOSELY
SATURDAY, MAY 13
“SHAME OF TEMPLE DRAKE”
JACK LARUE—MARIAN HOPKINS
MONDAY, MAY 15
“SONG OF EAGLE”
RICHARD ARLEN—MARY BRIAN

