THE DAVIDSONIAN,

OCT OBER 4, 1933

DAVIDSON 0
CAROLINA 6

| Atround the Wildcat’s Lair

ba eh

'CATS MEET
WOFFORD NEXT

Desperite Carolina Eleves Pushes
| Over Score in Last Quarter

| FINAL SCORE 6-0

Verble, Pittman, Willson Star for
Davidson

= Fane: A successful touchdown drive early

S iin the final period enabled the Uni-

Ba CASKIE NOQVELL 22: | versity of North Carolina to take a
,6 to 0 victory from the Davidson Wild- |

Despite “Doc” Newton's predic- cats last Saturday at ene tue
tion that the Wildcat  gridders eight thousand fans were on}
hand to witness the game. |

would do well to hold Chuck Col-

ff ; The play of Carolina’s second com- |
lins’ North Carolina Tar Heels to tires ’ ; |

| bination was largely responsible for |
four touchdowns, the Chapel Hill HL ae oe ge’ |
Pi the victory. They were in the game
lads barely eked out a 6 to 0 vic- ‘
ea ae when the touchdown was made, and
tory over the Fighting Presbyte- : Aj
' ‘ George Moore carried the ball over
rians. For three quarters the ’Cats 3 j
held: Cavalinals highly tauted teat from the one-yard line. The second
bs pianire tant ab is backfield of Martin, Burnett, Moore, |

bay, only to have Moore's
fourth quarter touchdown spell de-
feat for them.

at ; ; |
and Bell gained more consistently than}

the Woolen, Captain Croom, Jackson |
and MeCachren combination.
Largely responsible for

Notwithstanding the fact that Caro- Carolina’s |

lina won the ball game, and played Victory was Martin's fine punting, and |
better ball than Davidson, Davidson the ability of Jackson to return Da-|
fans should be proud of the fight their vidson’s kicks. The Tarboro boy was |

aa After 5 aly i , : |
team put up. After scarcely pulling getting off some nice long ones that
through against Elon in the opener,

/? put Davidson at disadvantage on
Wildcat backers became less enthusi- overy exchange of punts, in spite of
astic about their team. But that team = Davidson’s
the field last Saturday, minus the
services of that stellar field general,
Johnny Mackorell, put up a splendid
battle, and proved itself to be a strong,
well-rounded team.

a

some excellent kicking by
Paul Pittman, Sophomore halfback.

Davidson was vastly underrated
the pre-game predictions of the press,
far more stuff than even

on

in

and showed

the most optimistic expected, and}
Offensive honors of the day on = played a smoother brand of ball in|
the Davidson side go to Verble and the first half than the Tar Heels did.

Pittman, both Sophomores. ‘The In the second half, however, the Chapel

Midge” was trucking that ball on Hill boys came back, and completely
several occasions, and displayed his 9 {yok charge until they had put over
usual ability as a blocking back. the winning six points. The kick for
Pittman was getting off some nice {he extra point was blocked.

punts, and running exceptionally Davidson's — supposedly weak — line
well. played good ‘ball throughout, and’ the
However, orchids go to Ed Martin, work of Potter, Rives, Cathey, and

outstanding.
the conflict
to

Morgan was. particularly
Morgan was keyft out of
during the first half,

Carolina quarterback, and to Jim Mor-
Davidson flankman. Martin's
said to have been large-

gan,

punts could be due injuries,

ly responsible for Carolina’s victory. but when the sledding became tough-
Despite Pittman’s excellent kicking, er in the second, Coach Newton, sent
Davidson was losing on every exchange “Big Jim” in, and he literally tore
of punts, due to Martin’s powerfui things up around his flank,

boots. Morgan, who played only in) George Barelay was the outstand-
the second session, and with an injured ing man in the North Carolina Tine,
leg, put up“what could be said to have and he was a thorn in the side of the
been the finest game on the field, both Wildcats all afternoon, Frankel and

offensively and defensively. He al- Brandt on the ends played good ball,
ways had his man, even if the Mats did do most of their
The game is now over, and the ground gaining on end runs.
’Cats won’t get a crack at the Outstanding in Davidson's backfield
Tar Heels until next year, but to were Verble, Pittman, and Willson.
the men who are playing their last The first two took charge of the ‘Cats’
year of varsity ball for Davidson, ffensive fireworks, and got off sev-

eral long runs. [Eb Willson laid them
low at turn the
All-state pickers had better watch this
man Willson,

Davidson's passing attack

let it be known that you gave them

one whale of a game, before they

beat you.

Our interest now turns to the ap-
proaching conflict with Wofford, which
is to be played in Spartanburg Satur-
The Terriers enjoyed an open
while Davidson was engaging
Carolina, and so have a_ two weeks’
rest before locking with the
‘Cats.

every on defensive.

failed to
click a single time. Of the nine tosses
that filled the air, eight from Pittman
from -Wingfield, none found

the waiting arms of the intended re-

day.
date, and one
ceivers, Carolina completed four passes,
one of which put them deep in Da-
vidson territory and aided their cause
considerably.

horns

In the opening encounter of the
current season, South Carolina’s

Gamecocks, led by the “Gaffney

Davidson got the advantage-of most

Ghost,” Earl. Clary, dumped the of the breaks, recovering three Caro-
Wofford gridders for a 31 to 0 lina fumbles, with Grant doing most)
loss. The Spartanburg team just of the recovering. Johnny Pearce
couldn't seem to get going. South fumbled a punt on his own 15-yard |
Carolina lost to Temple in their line in the final minutes, and it rolled |
second game. to the 9-yard marker, where Moore, |
The old boy hasn't done so well in ©arolina center, fell on it. Davidson |
the predicting line, so he'll limit his| eld for four downs, and the game |

prognostication this time to the state- ended shortly thereafter.

| following

imine Tarheels Take Close
: Fight From Wildcats

Cats to Meet Wofford Team

Davidson Invades Terrier Strong-
hold for Third Tilt of °
Season

After two games, one a victory, and
the other a glorious defeat, the David-
son gridmen journey to Spartanburg
next Saturday, where they will
counter the hard-fighting Wofford Ter-

riers,

en-

Coach Newton has been getting his
boys in shape for the coming conflict,
and a strong squad will invade
Terriers’ stronghold Saturday.

To date Wofford has played but one
game, and in that they were on the
short end of a 31 0 score, with
South Carolina on the winning side of
the ledger. Wofford had a
team, but the Clary combination
proved too much for fhem.

to

Davidson has fared a bit |better in
games. In the initial
encounter of the season the Wildcats

played under cover of wraps, but were
still good enough to take the Elon
Christians into camp, 6,to 0. On the
Saturday the powerful North
Carolina eleven had to call on all their
, ‘ats, 6 to 0
are
for the game
‘Cats should
Morgan

resources to down the 'C€

Davidson's injured
pected to be in shape
with Wofford, and the
line-up like this: TEnds,
Windham; tackles, Hand
guards, Potter and Captain Rives;
ter, McElrath, West, or Lee; backs,
Mackorell, Pittman, Wingfield,
Willson,

Grant did good work against Caro

players eX

“and
and Siewers;:
cen-

and

lina, and should see service in the
game. Such linemen as Batte, Fort,
Cathey, and Craven showed up well
in the game with the Tar Heels, and
will be right in there among them Sat
urday.

Davidson has another set of backs
that should raise havoc with any de-
fense, They are Hutehens, Verble,

Pearce, and Burns.

Stribling Hurt

OFWs

Stribling, prominent Georgia
was brought to an abrupt end
when his left foot was severed
in a motorcycle

The boxing
“Young”
pugilist,
Sunday,

career

accident
Stribling’s phenomenal rise
fame is known to most. He
the tutelage his
through a series of small fights, to bat-
tle Max Schmeling for the champion-
ship of the world. the big
man got a decision in 15 rounds is now
history, and the entire sporting world
will be sorry to see the colorful young
Georgian drop out of the fight picture

to
came

ring
up,

under of

How Ger-

Statistics on David-
son-Carolina Game

First downs: Davidson 3; Car-
olina 13.

Yards gained at line: Davidson
27; Carolina 190.

Yards lost at line:
16; Carolina 20.

Yards gained at ends:
son 58; Carolina 11. .

Yards lost at ends: Davidson 0;
Carolina 0.

Passes completed: Davidson 0;
Carolina 4.

Yards gained on passes:
vidson 0; Carolina 51.

Passes incompleted: Davidson
9; Carolina 5.
_-Passes had intercepted: David-

Davidson

David-

Da-

the,

dogged |

father, |

ment, “Davidson will beat Wofford Line-up:
Saturday.” |
The Wildkittens made their de- Davidson (0) Pos. N. Carolina (6)
but on Richardson Field Saturday, | Grant LE, Frankel |
when they played Lees-McRae  Si¢wers LT. Tatum |
Junior College to. a 6 to 6 tie. The Potter L.G, Barclay |
Freshmen showed good stuff on | McElrath Center W. Moore}
the-offense, but couldn’t carry their | Rives R.G. Kahn
threats to the goal line but once. | Cathey RT. Daniel |
Maurice Peabody, Gracey, and | Windham R.E. Brandt |
Olschner stood out for the ’Kit- | Wingfield QB. Woolen |
tens, while “Business” Clark ap- | Pittman L.H. Jackson
peared to be the whole works for | Hutchins R.H. McCachren |
Lees-McRae. | Willson F.B. Croom |
With the Lees-McRae team came Score by periods: |
Fred Dickerson, erstwhile Davidson Dedisieeee 0 0 0 0-0
athlete. Fred is head coach and direc- Neri Garclinn0 0 0 (65)
tor of athletics at the Banner Elk in-, i . vn Sen {
stitution. At Davidson he played fopt-| Scoring summary: Carolina touch- |
ball, and basketball, and was a mem-|Cown: Moore (sub for McCachren).
ber of the track team. | Davidson subs: Morgan, Hand, John- |
In this issue we inaugurate ‘son, West, Lee, Craven, Fort, Verbel, | |
something new for “The David- | Pearce, Ravenel, and Wingfield.
sonian.” That is, a prediction of Carolina subs: Yeager, Evins, Steph-|
the'leading Southern games of the ins, Gardner, Joyce, Blythe, Barrett, |
week, If our good friend and col- | Barwick, Martin, Montgomery, Bur-|
league Athaletic Al, the Galloping |nett, McDonald, Shaffer, G. Moore, |
Ghost of Gallaudet, will forgive us | Bell, and Thompson. |
for crdmping his style, we shall Officials: Referee, Foster (Hamp-|
list the choice of winner in cap- | den-Sydney) ; umpire, Perry (Se-|
itals.. This Saturday’s picks fol- | wanee); field judge, Parrish (V. P.|

: (Continued on page 6) \D); head linesman, Hill (Wofford). |

Kittens Face Powerful Foe

Working Hard i in Preparation for
Strong State Freshman
* Eleven |

The Wildkittens will runt}
up against a powerful and heavy team
when they meet the N.-C. State Fresh-
men here on October 13 in their see-
ond game of the current football sea-

Davidson

son,
| So weak was the offensive showing
the ‘Kittens last week in the game
|with Lees-McRae that Davidson men-
ltors are inclined to be a little peastinies|
tic when speaking of the coming en-
counter with State.

The State Freshmen have one of the
strongest teams of several years, with
a big, fast line, and a bunch of clever
backs.

By

of

no means satisfied with the ‘Kit-
ten offense, the coaches intend to spend
considerable time on that phase of the
game during the coming week; new
plays will be developed and perfected,
and both punting and passing will be
stressed,

BREWSTER GRANT
Shown in! action above is Brew-
ster Grant, varsity end. Grant, who
has successfully taken the place of

the unfortunate “Shrimp” Morris, Moreover, Coach Laird stated that
did not got out for football his the Wildkitten backfield) would be
Freshman year at Davidson, and drilled on pass defense. The touch-
served as a member of the “B” Gown made by Lees-McRae in the
squrd last season. This year he game last Friday was due in part to
has won a varsity berth, and jhe faittve of the ‘Kittens to break
showed the true Wildcat spirit (up their Opponents’ passes.
when he played through the Caro- | The following men will see service
lina game with a broken-up chin. ji, the game with State:
' : 5 Centers—Gracey and Purdy.
N. C. Teams Win Guards—D. Johnson, Melton and}
MeClain.
and Lose Saturday Vackles-—-Armfield and Vass.
-- i ‘ Ends—Dickson and Cathey.
State Loses as Duke Wins; Cita- yy. acktield will probably consist
del and W. & M. Win of Olschener and Peabody at the
The results of last Saturday's foot- halves; Shemwell at quarter, and)
ball contests saw. five of Davidson's | Cook at fullback,
1933 grid opponents in action, as State, ‘
Jost_a well deaaht game to the Georgia Senators and Giants

Bulldogs, while Duke humbled V. M.} Begin World Series
1. by a®score of a. decidedly lopsided
nature, The Citadel won over Erskine, Interest is now centered on the
25-0, while W. & M. lost to Navy, World Series, which began Tuesday.
12 to 0, The teams playing are Washington,
Although State, putting up a game) representing the American League, and
fight, led at the halftime whistle by 10) New York, representing the National
to 7, they were unable to stand up| League. Washington's Senators won
against an enraged Bulldog eleven in the American League championship,

the second half. Georgia put out its|and the New York Giants bagged the
entire power and State was powerless championship in their league.

before the drive of the Georgia line) In the senior circuit, the Giants
and the brilliant running of Chapman) finally won out after a hot face, with
and Grant. the Chicago Cubs and the Pittsburgh

Pirates furnishing most of the
tition. In the American, the

advan-
tage of her opportunities that won her

It was State's ability to take compe-

Senators

first score, which came as a result of | finished a good bit ahead of their near-/
an intercepted) pass on the 25-yard! est rival, the world's champion New

line. Her other seore came just at} York Yankees.
the end of the first half, when Me-} Both clubs have well-rounded teams,
'Quage, dropping back to the 45-yard) but the betting odds favor Washington
+\ stripe, sent a beautiful place kick ex-/at 10 to 7, Hubbell is the Giant hurl-
actly between the uprights. ling ace, and Crowder appears to be
the Wolfpack line holds about the best the Nats can offer, but

|
| Although
|
|

surprising strength, it was unable to just watch this guy Stewart when he
do much against the strong Georgia) starts hurling that rock.

forward wall. The vaunted pony) The Senators line up something like
backfield” was also practically inef- ithis: Myer, 2b; Goslin, of; Manush, of;
fectual against the Bulldog defense at} Cronin, ss; Rice, of; Kuhel,\1b; Berg,
its best. ce; Bluege, 3b; and a raft of plenty

In the first game of the Southern) good hurlers,

Conference season, Duke ran rough-| The Giants take shape about like
shod over the V. M. I. Cadets, the | this: O'Doul, of; Critz, 2b; Terry, 1b;
final score being Duke 37, V. M. I. 6. | Ott, of; Davis, of; Dressen, 3b; Man-
‘The only Cadet score came as the|cuso, c; Jackson, ss; and some good
result’of a blocked punt, which was |} pitchers.

recovered by V. M, I. and converted | Two youthful managers will match
into a touchdown. jwits in this world series. Piloting

The Cadets never stood a chance! Washington will be none other than
against Duke’s powerful running and | Joe Cronin, sensational shortstop, who
passing attack, and the best she could | is a most valuable player. At the helm
do was to hold the Blue Devils to | for the Giants will be found Bill Terry,
six scores. One of the oustanding fea-| hard-hitting first sacker.

} Davidson's 45-yard line.

j ting
| put

Frosh and Lees-McRae
| Fight to a Draw Here

[ones and a Gracey Are the
Outstanding Stars for Wild-
kittens

FINAL SCORE, 6-6
Clark Is Outstanding Star for
Lees-McRae

Faced stronger opposition than
was expected, the Davidson Wildkit-
their first game of the 1933
grid season end in a 6-6 tie with Lees-
McRae Junior College last Friday
Richardson Field.

It was the season's second game for
the their first encounter with
Cullowhee Teachers’ College having
ended in a tie

The ‘Nittens’
ond quarter
lineman,

by
tens saw

on

visitors,

also.
score came in the sec-
after Armfield, Davidson
had blocked a punt and then
on 10-yard
Peabody then gained five yards
an run.- A lite buck by
Olschener put the ball on the three-
yard stripe, and on the next play Pea-
body carried it over the
Olschener’s try for extra point

recovered Lees-McRae’s
line.

on end

for touch-
down,
failed.

Davidson clearly outplayed Lees-Me-
and exhibited superiority in al
phases of the game with the exception
of the passing department. It was
Lees-MeRae’s aerial attack that paved
the way for the score, In the final
quarter, Steel of Lees-McRae_ inter-
cepted a pass thrown by

from placement

Rae,

Peabody
A penalty for
next play the
visitors back to their own 32-yard line,
where Clark opened fire with two con-
secutive the

second 27,

on

holding on the carried

v

first net-
This
16-yard

passes to Green,
and the
the

25 yards
the ball
marker,

on ‘Nittens’

At this point,
iw ad ef
game,

Davidson cen-

into the
but called
The
which left

Gracey,

who had just been seit
failed to keep silence,
defensive signals instead,
was a 15-yard penalty,
leather Davidson's one-yard
The line then showed its de-

fensive strength by holding the visitors

result
the
on line.
"Kitten

for the next two tries. On the third
cown, Clark ran the ball over. Gracey
then redeemed himself by breaking

|
tures of the game, however, was the}

through and blocking Clark's try for
extra point.

The Wildkittens weak-~
ness in both passing and punting,

ing unable to complete

exhibited a
he-
a single
out of a considerable number attempt-

pass

ed. The majority of the kicks tailed
to carry. much distance.
The passing of Clark, Lees-MecRae

back, was outstandiig. Gracey did fine
defensive work for Davdison, and
Oischener and Peabody did a bit of

pretty running.

Intramural Football
Teams Begin Season

Paiva
start yesterday,
the
of the intra-class league.
and the

Campus got off to a
when the

Freshmen in the

good
Seniors met
initial e:m@~onter
The Juniors
Sophomores will lock horns

today.
The schedule will) continue until
each team has met each of the other

teams twice, and the
highest percentage
season will be winner.

At the intra-class
series, the Frattrnity League will start
its race.

the
the

club with
at the
declared the

conclusion of the

end of

All intra-mural tournaments are un-
der the superyisionof Heath Whittle,
director of intra-mural athletics.

ae 0; A egaicg 2. ao : beautiful punting on the part of Penn, | 7
umber punts: Davidson 17; |{!v. MM. I. end, who held off several, Fy es és
Carolina 10. dpa See ates Gaecttiae mel uaa aaTE
yee yardage on punts: bea widens BS ee | Union Theological Seminary
Davidson 33.4; Carolina 37. | Cox, substituting for Alexander, was |
Yards punts returned: David- | the main cog in the Blue Devil Aste RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
son 14; Carolina 66. ining attack, seeming almost always oH ; E
Yards penalized: Davidson 35; able to gain the needed yardage. Duke Distinguished for 121 years in the whole
Carolina 35. used for the main straight football, and is fe 3
Own fumbles recovered: Da- | gave promise to its opponents of an-| field of Theological Education, particularly
vidson 0; Carolina 4. other powerful team this year. | . es
Fumbles not recovered: David- V. M. I. seemed unable to even get | in the making of Preachers.
son 2; Carolina 3. started against their stronger oppo-
(Continued on page 6) | ‘
4 4
Collegiate Clothes for College Men, in Saxons, Glen Plaids, SODA DRUGS
and Worsteds. ;
Snap in tailoring, anally 8 material and all that’s up. to | COLLEGE PH ARM ACY.
High Art Clothing Company NEXT DOOR TO POST OFFICE
114 SOUTH TRYON ST. ;
Next to First National Bank Building, Charlotte ' SANDWICHES SCHOOL SUPPLIES

