4,

————

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 15, 1933

————

’ i

Alumni Personals

The number of alumni visitors to the cam-
pus has been cut down since the close of
football. practices. Bob Z. Johnston, of Ba-
rium, was a recent visitor.

Hon. W. F. Stevenson, ’85, of Cheraw,
S. C., who has been a member of the United
States Congress for sixteen years, has been
appointed ‘a member of the Federal’ Loan
Bank Board by President Roosevelt. His
appointment was promptly confirmed by the
Senate. This appointment and prompt con-
firmation are a tribute to the fine character
and sterling worth of Mr. Stevensen. He
will continue to reside in Washington.

A letter has been received at the college
office from Harry Price, ’25, of Peiping,
West China, who is working in China as an
instructor at Yenching University.

Lawrence Dumas, ’29, and Tyree Dillard;
28, are practicing law in Washington, D.
C., at present.

Dr. Elias Faison, ’24, and his bride, the
former Gloria Jones of Little Rock, have
moved to Charlotte to make their home. Dr.
Faison, after his graduation from David-
son, studied in the North and abroad at
Vienna. His wife was educated at Sweet-
briar College in Virginia. They expect to
go to housekeeping shortly.

BIRTHS
1912—Mr. and Mrs. James LeRoy Boyd, of
Atlanta, Ga., announce the birth of
a son, James LeRoy, Jt., on March 1.

*

o <=

NOTICE
Have your ‘shoes rebuilt at the
DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP
Work done while you wait.
C..A. KENNEDY, Proprietor

¢

+

> 3

U-PUSH-EMS
New Rates

at

M. P. Henderson’s
Gulf Station

||Dr. T. F. Foster Speaks

On Economic Conditions

Speaker Emphasizes Necessity of
Revolutionary Change in Bank-
ing System

On last Monday Davidson had Dr. T. W.
Foster, director of the Pollack Foundation
for Economic and Social Relations, to speak

twice.

He spoke once in the morning, before the
combined classes of Drs. Lingle, McConnell
and Brown, and Professor Currie. This talk
was in the nature of a general survey of
business, particularly banking, conditions as
they exist today.

Dr. Foster began his talk by pointing out
the woeful ignorance of our so-called lead-
ers of today, and the fact that they are try-
ing to lead this country out of the depres-
sion with a reconstruction program that is
at best contradictive and foolish. His whole
thought was, “Can we depend on anything?”
He then showed that we can depend on
one thing. That is that at the present time
there is a surplus of everything—overpro-
duction. :

There are three possible ways out. The
first is to destroy the goods, thus eliminat-
ing the surplus. The second is to throttle
down production, which America has so fool-
ishly.-been doing for the past decade. And
the last is to produce more goods at full
speed, thus creating more material wealth,
which will in turn make this country a more
prosperous and happy country. But4in order
.o distribute this large amount of goods, a
consumer market is necessary. In order to
create this consumer market, a complete re-
mpanization of the banking system and the
tax system must be worked out.

Dr. Foster laid most emphasis on the ne-
cessity for a_revolutionary change in the
Lanking system, such that it should not be
eternally encouraging the “save your
money” attitude, and such that the states
should be deprived “of their inalienable
right to have as many bank failures as
they desire.” In other words, Dr. Foster
suggests. more and more government .con-
trol of banking, and more and more spend-
ing of money by the individual consumer.

This speech was a very thoughtful one,
and was delivered in such a forceful man-
ner as to hold the attention of everyone
of the three or four hundred people in the

audience.

GEO. W. LAPITZ
Factory Representative

TAILORING DISPLAY at the Soda Shop
EVERY THURSDAY

Star Direct Tailors

$23.90 Up

B. O. RAVENEL
Student Representative

ollege
Printing

Magazines,

‘*‘PREFERRED PRINTING SERVICE’?

Catalogs,
Handbooks, Etc.
Nothing too large or small for our plant—Let us serve you

A. M. MANSON, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE
6,600 Square Feet of Floor Space Devoted to Printing,

Always Best

STANDARD PRINTING CO.CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Newspapers,
raved Cards and Invitations.

Programs,

Bulletins,
En

Exclusively.

foreign territory.

STUDENTS’ CRUISES

Magazine subscription scholarship workers and crew man-
agers write immediately for very best student scholarship offers
of leading publishers. Can be worked there now. ‘Permanent posi-
tions if experienced, also summer crews for United States and

FOR FULL DETAILS WRITE

The Collegiate Scholarship Institute

219 Republic Building, Miami, Florida

Pi Delta Alpha

At the last meeting of the Pi Delta
Alpha, honorary pre-medical frater-
nity, Dr. J. W. MacConnell, college
physician, and Dr. S. C. Lyon, profes-
sot of biology, were initiated into the
order. There were approximately fif-
teen members present at the meet-
ing. An interesting program was ar-
ranged in the form of having papers
read, which were written by the mem-
bers of the fraternity. The meeting
was held at the home of Dr. Lyon.

An interesting paper on the “Physi-
ological Chemistry of Salivary Diges-
tion” was read by R. H. Baker. Avery
Patton discussed through the medium
of his paper the dreaded “African
Trypanasomiasis,’ which is better
known as “African Sleeping Sick-
ness.” The causes of death and disease
in our large manufacturing plants
were discussed by Rufus Morrow in
his paper entitled “Industry’s Shadow
of Death.” At the finish of his read-
ing he was congratulated by the fra-
ternity for having written such an in-
teresting paper on such an important
subject.

Ministerial Band to
Hear Dr. Siler Speak

The Ministerial Band plan to, resume their
regular scheduled meetings this week with
a program to be held Friday evening in
their usual meeting place in Eu Hall.

Dr. E. L. Siler, of Charlotte, will be the
speaker and while he has not-yet announced
his subject, it is expected that he will talk
concerning some of his own experiences.
Dr. Siler is a retired minister, and has ex-
perienced a good many things which, in his
opinion, every student expecting to enter
the ministry should know.

During the rest of the semester, the Min-
isterial Band plan to bring here to speak in
théir programs various outstanding minis-
ters and prominent business men from Char-
lotte, in continuance of their plans. They
will discuss further on Friday the plans to
he carried out for the rest of the year. All
students who may be interested are cor-
dially invited to come and hear Dr. Siler
on Friday. The Ministerial Band are look-
ing forward with great delight to his ad-
dress.

Student Golfers Defeat
Faculty for Second Win

Faculty Get Only Three of the
Twenty-one Points

ee

The student twosomes held their own to
win the second of ‘three golf matches with
the faculty team last. Saturday afternoon.
Six of the seven matches were won by stu-
dents to chalk up a score of 18-3. Captain
Caldwell and “Bull” Wagner were held to
a tie by Doc Newton and Professor Blythe
in the seventh match.

Bill Bowman, Mac Manson, McConnell,
Macfie, Morrison, and Gregory made a clean
sweep of their matches, holding their fac-
ulty opponents scoreless. Bowles-Vaiden,
Thompson-Hellinger, and Schenck-Alder-

) man won their matches, but dropped a half-

point each to the opposing twosome.

The match between Caldwell and Wagner
for the students and Newton and Blythe of
the professors was the feature match of
the afternoon, ending in a 144-1) tie.

Next Saturday afternoon the last of the
three matches will be played, and should
the students emerge victorious it will be
one time that they can truly say that they
had the faculty where they wanted them.

Bob Gregory was low scorer for the day,
having a par 36 on the first nine.

INTERCOLLEGIATE PRESS

(Continued ‘from page 3) _
of higher learning can fully meet its social
obligations without including education for
marriage.

“Changes in thought and morals are in-
evitable, for society, to personify social re-
actions, will have to adjust itself to the
emergence of the single life as a genuine
rival of marriage.” :

The most insistent demand for a course
in marriage at Carolina came from the stu-
dents themselves, Dr. Groves said, and
alumni of the course have been of great
help in adding new material to the course
from ‘their personal experiences.

The book is a part of the American So-
cial Science series of which the general ed-

Institute for Research in Social Science at
the University of North Carolina.

The institution of such courses as this
one of Dr. Groves’ is one of the elements
which is making the University of North
Carolina recognized throughout the world
as one of the most potent and important
of American valve according to edu-
cators.

itor is Howard W. Odum, director of the |

= SSS————

DR. FOSTER GIVES TIMELY
TALK ON DEPRESSION

(Continued from page 1)

tirely monetary. As the editor said, ‘Hard
times is when people quit feeding the cow
and wonder why she doesn’t give more
milk.’” Then, after giving a striking ac-
count of the results of the laissez-faire
(“lazy fairies”) attitude of the administra-
tion of the last three years, Dr, Foster add-
ed, “Caresses are no substitute for calories,
and any cow knows that.”

Eloquently, he pictured America’s possi-
bilities: “Potentially, we have the. largest
volume of foreign trade the world has ever
known. We have everything we need. God
has not gone back on us. We lack nothing.
We have every material thing requisite for
abolishing poverty and giving a job to

‘everyone who wants one.”

The trouble, then, Dr. Foster said, lay
in our economic ideas. ‘We, have been
brought up for generations under the perni-
cious influence of the doctrine of laissez-
faire. It all goes back to Adam—Adam
Smith, and his theory that economic func-
tions should be let alone, that their opera-
tion was natural and inevitable, and it was
sacreligious to do anything about them. It
was reincarnated under the past_adminis-|
tration as ‘rugged individualism,’ or as Pro-
fessor Dewey says, ‘ragged individualism.’
The chief letter-alone was Calvin Coolidge,
who let everything alone! Economists of
the last hundred years have talked only
of production. The whole idea is fallacious.
Production does not automatically control
consumption. The only workable theory of
economics must be built around the essen-
tial core of sustained purchasing power.
The only reason we have a business depres-
sion is because consumption did not keep
pace with production of goods. You can no
more have depression with adequate con-
sumer-buying than you can have drovth in
Davidson if it rains every day. The one
thing really needed is to restore consum-
c1’s power. But, as someone once said, teach
a parrot to say ‘Supply and demand,’ and
you’ve created a Captain of Industry.”

Dr. Foster, who has written several books
on exposition and argumentation, is a skill-
ful orator, and the audience listened in-
tently to every word. He was never more
impressive than when, near the end of his
address, he leaned forward and, his voice
vibrating with earnestness, sounded a call
for confidence and courage. “If everybody
in the United States would wake up tomor-
row morning, believing the depression. is
over, it would be over. For then, the Amer-
ican people would act collectively through
their Federal government; and the only way
to get out of a depression is through col-
lective action. I have always felt that the
most pregnant sentence probably in the
whole Bible is, ‘He who would find his life
must lose it, and he who would lose his life
for my sake, the same shall find it.’ The
doctrine of rugged individualism, Wall
Street, and big business, is dominated by
the doctrine of, ‘He who would find his life
must seek it, and let everybody else go
hang.’ In 1933, busines must go back to
the central theme of Christianity to save
business.”

“The New Deal,” Dr. Foster declared,
“represents collective action. The three at-

titudes may be listed as: reactionary, real-
istic, and radical. The New Deal is realistic;
the others represent extremes, one—rugged
individualism—advocated by the United
States Chamber of Commerce and the Re-
publican party, and the other—disregard-
ing the powerful incentive to accomplish-
ment of the profit motive—adhered to by
Socialism and Fascism.”

Dr. Foster was enthusiastic about the
New Deal. “We shall have, in a very short
time, measures taken which will make 1933
go-down in history as the year when the
most profound economic changes took
place.”

The speaker said that under the New Deal
there would probably be a resumption of
public building programs; money would be
made available for cleaning up the slums;
taxes would probably not be increased, and
there would be less anxiety about govern-
mental deficits until a measure of prosperity
returned; however, high inheritance taxes
and additional surtaxes on large incomes
would probably be levied. He expressed
hope that the George bill would be passed,
providing a half-million dollars to the states
to prevent retrenchment in education. A
long range planning of public works would
probably be undertaken. “The one thing
needed is to put back to work the eleven
million men who want work.”

Dr. Foster emphasized the possibility of
engaging in a real program of reconstruc-
tion. He declared that if war should sud-
denly occur, we would immediately throw
our whole strength into the conflict. “The
great thing about this New Deal,” he con-
cluded, “is this, that, at last, the people of
the United States, within the last few
weeks, very rapidly have come to this con-
clusion—that if it is feasible to utilize our
productive capacities for killing men
abroad, it is equally possible to utilize them
on a large scale for saving men at home.”

FAMOUS NEGRO QUARTET
HEARD IN CHAPEL FRIDAY

(Continued from page 1)

abilities and talents.” The singers came
from its business school, which sends grad-
uates out fitted for comercial positions
among white people and among their own
race. Mr. Hammet, the manager of the
quartet, graduated from this department of
Hampton last year. Between two numbers
he gave an instructive short talk on his
experiences there, and his expectations re-
garding a Career now that he has gradu-
ated.

The performance of the quartet was ex-
ceptionally good, and was surprising for its
qualities and perfect rhythm, harmony, and
excellent enunciation. The spirituals sung
were as follows: My Lord, What a Morn-
ing; If You Want T’Go to Heaven; Way
Over in Jurdian; Joshua Fit the Battle of
Jericho; Swing Low Sweet Chariot; I’m
Baptist Born and Bred; Were You There
When They Crucified My Lord?

After the performance, President Lingle
expressed the appreciation and thanks of
the college for the “service of love” ren-
dered by the Hampton singers in coming
to Davidson, solely-on-a mission of good

will, to further amicable relations between
the Southern negro and his white neighbor.

“DRUGS”

Student

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

Make Our Store Your Store

WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.

“SODAS”

Supplies

“SUNDRIES”

For

Distinctive Apparel
Men

at

IDEU'S
~ DAVIDSON |
SHOP

