N

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 8, 1933

~The Wavidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

S ION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col:
a ieainte Year, Entered as second ‘class. matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

. Articles for publication must be in the hands of the

Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.
jessauwsacnecd Editor-in-Chief
ROM AMANSON RANT a<=-2-= Ti Business Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
Editor
editor
oy [Las
i uditor
BRGUAK Riis. 2. cc tis .sersasteseceey Editor
Ww. Editor
Si = GAMIB Uiteeeiccr ura asec es Serseg eee Editor
Ty --Contributing Editor
5 A dbicpadesbeances Review Balter
D D. McBRYDE ssociate Editor
: Ueisddscscdscusansesbdoquusceusess. Associate Editor
R: KE MYERS Sura ree Associate ed tor
BicBi SUGGiis ose cca. pebelesaessieti seks Sosesse e tor
BUSINESS STAFF
‘ NSONasccenncuesagcana. Assistant Business Manager
ant An ON ---Assi B anager
ALVIN 2 BAVDR) J Riccodatecucuccsusbunad uedesuasass olicitor
H. B. DANIEL olicitor
i M. DOUGLAS. ae
W. b OSPRONT a cticito
ie CANE Shout clicitor
4 4s Waite eka olicitor
REPORTERS’ CLUB
President
li ecGaMibicns ono aenuie Vice-President
LEWIS GREGG......------.-. Secretary-Treasurer
. L. McCLINTOCK
RH ALDERMAN, Aye sre WINEN
G. E: ILY E, F. McPHAIL
D. B. BAILEY W. C. NEILL
B. C. BARNES W. L. NORTHEN
. E. BOWER Cc. E. NORVELL
i E, BOY E, L. POWELL
. H. COVINGTON S. P, PRESTON
S. K. EATON P, M. ROGERS
J. B. F LIN R. L. ROSE
G. L. GULLETTE T. H. SUTTON
ACK_ HELLINGER N. W. WALLACE
U C. HENRY K, D. WEEKS
. A, HUNTER W. R. WARD
. E.. LORRAINE W. T. THOMPSON
T. F. WOOD i W. WHITE
W,-F,-MULLISS PRATT-THOMAS

FEBRUARY 8, 1933

The worse the condition of society, the more
visionary must a true code of morals appear.
—-Herbert Spencer.
PEE RECT | Sear

THOUGHTS IN PASSING

We wish to commend the Pan-Hellenic Council for
the success of the Mid-Winter Dances. We feel that
the set given last week were the best in the last sev-
eral years.

PSS SeY Yate

The orchestra was the
to Davidson.

best that has ever been

SESSA, een

Despite the result of recent games, the basketball
team has improved a great deal. ‘We think they will
give other members of the Big Five a real game when
they meet in the forthcoming games.

——_D

South Carolina, in beating the great Kentucky five,
caused one of the biggest upsets of the’season. Sirice
their tie with the powerful’ Auburn team last fall,
we have come to think of South Carolina as a school
capable of upsetting previous predictions.

Hace yy a Un

The Southern Conference basketball tournament
next March promises many thrills with Nort! Caro-
lina, South-Carolina, Duke, N. C. State, Virgina, and
Maryland furnishing the fireworks.

ee pes

The next exodus of the student body and faculty
will be to the inauguration at Washington, |D. C.,
March 4, |

D

The world is watching with interest the chancellor-
ship of Adolf Hitler in Germany. This manjhas a
great opportunity to help his country.

D.

The wrestling team is to be congratulated
win over Duke.

their

——_D

The Library has added many new books, especially
in the biographical line.

D.
TECHNOCRACY

=

The statements issued a short time ago by
that_group of Columbia University professors
seem to have a good deal of substance in them,
despite the fact that they have been minimized
by many.-—Although the compléte report of
Technocracy has not yet been issued, there is
reason to believe from what we already know
that it will be rather revolutionary in its char-
acter.

There are very few in America, and the
world in general for that matter, who will
deny that something of a very serious nature
is wrong in our economic world today. The
phrase, “returning to normal,” does not have
much significance any more, because we be-
lieve that if we perchance did return to normal
times, or rather the abnormal times of 1929,
the next depression would cause the whole
economic system to crumble. -The time has

assed when we believe that prosperity is
just around the corner. It would indeed be
very pessimistic to believe that timés will

hever improve, but we are led to believe that_

the improvement, when it comes, will not be
a return to the conditions as they existed: in
1929, nor can we think! that in the light of
present-day knowledge such times of so-called
prosperity are -desirable.

According to the-Bechnocrats the: war: be-
tween man.and machine reached a climax in
1918 when the peak of industrial employment
occurred, and the maximum industrial pro-
duction was reached in 1929, Since the intro-
duction of the machine, production _has_in-
creased stupendously, but the demand for man
power has-decreased.. In 1920 there weré over
two million men working in the railroad busi-
ness. Today if the most efficient methods
were used, the railroads could be run with the
same efficiency using only about six hundred
thousand men.

The same is true in all other _

lines of endeavor, and how can any reasonable
person expect unemployment to decrease un-
der these conditions? Daily we are inventing
machines to replace men, and yet the popula-
tion is steadily increasing and these people
must be fed. Surely we cannot condemn the
machines as evil in themselves for putting
men out of work, but we must devise some
way in which to utilize them, and at the same
time raise the standard of living or at least
give all the opportunity to work and live hap-
pily. With the stupendous amount of over-
production obtained with so little labor, one
does not need a very strong imagination to
realize. that with the proper distribution the
standard of living the world over could be
raised with more time for leisure and recrea-
tion,

The Technocrats may be in error in their
remedy, but surely they have given us some-
thing to stimulate our thought and something
which may be very useful: Every innovation
such as this has its radical features, and many
points which the Technerats have advanced do
not seem to be logical, but their theory need
not be taken wholly. They would abolish the
present price system and substitute in its
place the energy system. A person would be
paid according to the amount of energy ex-
pended, and articles of goods would be evalu-
ated according to the amount of energy re-
quired to make them. We can see. many prac-
tical difficulties to such a system ‘at first
glance, but if it were put to the test, it might
work out satisfactorily. It is certainly worth
thinking ahout, because everyone would re-
ceive certificates representing the amount o
energy expended. These certificates would be
used to purchase goods. This whole system
as the Technocrats present it, would be very
scientific and the country would be controlled
by engineers rather than politicians. This one
feature alone should make the theory worth
our time to consider it. :

The fairness of the system seems very evi-
dent, and although it may never be used just
in this manner, we certainly think that some
form of this will inevitably come in the future.
Just how far in the future is a matter of spec-
ulation, as to how long our present economic
structure can stand the strain.

ADOLPH HITLER AND GERMANY

Hitler’s recent appointment to the chan-
cellorship in’ Germany seemed to portend evil
for the future of Europe at the first glance
at iis pest record as an agitator and nation-
alist, but the acquisition of this office has
quieted, or seems to have quieted him to some
extent. The rise of Hitler in Germany~ is
phenomenal, and certainly no one can deny
the fact that he has a magnetic personality
Which has placed him where he is, although
many have thought of him as a demagogue and
considered him. very short-sighted. He has
had power too short .a time to judge him cor-
rectly yet, but his statementts recently have
heen very sane and wise. He admits that. all
his plans cannot be accomplislhed at once; and
probably four years will be needed for the
completion of them. He showed good judg-
ment, most think, in selecting men as mem-
bers of his cabinet who represent the differ-
ent political factions im Germany, and men

Who have never particularly supported him.

Certainly one of the requisites of a leader is
to be able to select competemt men to assist
him.

ve Sfetee LAS tie ‘as wdiways ‘been very nation-

alistic and pro-German in his tendencies, and
because of this the other countries of Europe
thought that, if he were to come into power,
the same spirit which pervaded Germany in
1914 would again-be-brought forth. Hitler
stands as ever for the rights of the German
people, and according to one German newspa-
per, which is not one-of the Hitler organs, “a
new day for Germany has come,” referring
to his rise to power, but he does not mean to
immediately"build up Germany’s armed power.
He intends for Germany to be on a par with
the other nations of Europe, but he believes
that the other nations should disarm to meet
Germany’s ratio rather than that Germany’s
armaments should be increased. Some will
maintain that he does.not mean what he has
said, but surely we cannot discount any of his
actions thus far, and he may be the one to
lead Germany back into her proper place
among the nations of the world where she
properly belongs,

|.Were going to get their mail General Delivery if they

I SAW

WORLD SPECTATOR

. a smart phaeton churn into fraternity court
, Friday and stop amid the scrunching of gravel. No
other than gallant Oscar Bethea alighted like the
king of Sweden to assist a charmingly irresistible
girl to terra firma. “Some guys have all*the luck.

... John Stevens who hails from the good town
of Winston, pardon me, city of Winston, playing store
of an afternoon. He was assisting in the book store
a littlé and seemed to take it very seriously.

. or hear that our president, Dr. Lingle, is being
treated royally down in the land of sunshine and flow-
ers. The suite of rooms at his disposal in Orlando
“has-a lake front view. How we would loathe to leave
such a place, but he departs soon and_is expected
to arrive home tomorrow.

_ our carnest “Y" secretary, Sam Wiley, wearing
a new blue hat. You have no idea what blue
is until you've seen this hat. It looks well on him AN dave
they ought to be popular this spring. om

» - ++ by the paper last week that the girls at dear
old Sophie Newcombe way down in New Orleans
have taken up the pipe. This did not upset me so
much*but I am really shocked to see Wannamakers’
ad. in The Times advertising women’s trouser suits.
Who ever thought it would come to this!

Bob McCallie; editor-in-chief of Quips and
Cranks, out at the coal bin, scuttle in hand, of an aft-
ernoon last week. He and Billy Flinn like rooming
in the Love Nest but .with spring in the offing they
look forward to the time when
more coat to bring in.

there will be no

—__

. considerate ‘Tommy Pheifer telling—a—friend
how swell he was treated while at the infirmary.
Motherly Mrs. Robson does: take good care of her
boys. They do everything for the patient and the
meals are delicious. Really those who graduate with-
out having spent any time at the college infirmary
have missed part of their college course,

... 5. M. Hines and Buddy Robinson, two of our,
foremost musicians, tell the man at the P. O. they

didn’t get some in their boxes soon. Why not try
writing letters to yourself! It’s lots of fun and a
sure way of getting loads of fan mail.

it passed about that Bob Morrow is a Jui
Jitsu artist. He and his roomie, George Bailey, put
on charity exhibitions every now and then. It would
be really exciting to see him sling poor George across
the room, but to make it perfect he ought to put

one foot on the chest of the victim-and give a Tarzan
yell,

» and heard one coy young thing at the dance
inquire what college I attended. Everybody seemed
to be having the best time stamping their feet and
Art Kassel was perfectly elegant. In fact he was
‘simply marvelous and it. was one of the swankiest
affairs of the social season. Everybody is anxious
to know who writes this brilliant column, There is
sure to be considerable excitement when the author
signs his real name. In about six more issues you'll
know who he is and until then you'll just have to
grin and bear it. But I’ve chatted enough and must
cut this—the ‘editor always does—and I hope you get
along well with all your Professors this semester
and make “A” on everything,

TIP POFF.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E, LAKE

Vv. M. I.

Bert Lown and his famous orchestra has been se-
lected to play for the V. M. T. Mid-Winter dances
this year. These dances will be held February 17
and 18, To those who have never heard Bert Lown
and his orchestra, be it Known that he has a very
fine orchestra, even though it does not rate with
Guy Lombardo, Jan Garber, Bernie Cummins, Wayne
King, or Hal Kemp. Recently he has played for

the dances of some of the big Northern Schools.

Duke

Art and “Kassels in the ” Air,” who
thrilled the girls and chéered the boys here last week-
end, has been engaged to play at Duke this week-
end, Friday and Saturday, February 10 and 11. There
will be a dance Friday night from 9 to 1, a tea dance
Saturday ‘afternoon from 3:30 to 6:30, and a formal
dance Saturday night from 8:30 to 12, The price for
this series of dances is the nominal sum of $4. Sep-

Kassel his

arately, the night datices will be $2.50 apiece and the__|_

tea dance $1.50. He was very good here and we trust
that he will be just as good at Duke. By appearing
at Duke, Art Kassel has an honor bestowed upon
his illustrious brow. This is the first big orchestra
that has ever played for a dance at Duke.
Gettysburg

Dr. Joseph Fort Newton, rector of the St. Paul’s
Episcopal Cathedral of Philadelphia, will deliver the
baccalaureate sermon at Gettysburg College in June.

Soars say
Hollins |
Hollins was recently admitted to the Southern wAs-
sociation of Schools and Colleges.

France, in recent years free from great internal
political trouble, has recently had a slight touch of
an attempt at restoring the monarchy. This was in
the form of a manifesto from the Duc de Guise, pre-
tender to the French throne and Royalist head. This
leader succeeded Duc D’Orleans upon the latter's
death over six years ago, and up to the present time
has—made—ne-attempt—to—enter—French_politics. How-
ever, recently he addressed his manifesto to war vet-
erans, state employes, and taxpayers, in which he
urged.the return of a monarchy by the establish-
ment of a dictator. He said that the present republic
Was too expensive and was impotent to govern
France. He asked the French to choose between
“authority, liberty, and monarchy, or oppression, an-
1 In drawing up his document
the Duc de Guise stated: “I represent the principles
which render to the State the fullness of ‘impartiality,
independence, and stability. When I received the
suardianship of these by birth in order to transmit
them intact to my son, I inherited also a duty to
recall them to the French nation.”

archy, and socialism.”

Leis, given to all who leave Hawaii, provide sub-
stantial to those who weave them. The
garlands. of flowers are a part of an old Hawaiian
custom of wishing all who are leaving Hawaii good-
bye, and a return to the islands some day. It is said
that every departee should have at least one-lei, and
that the popularity of the pérson is indicated by the
number of leis. These garlands are made of flowers
which grow wild in Hawaii, and that they would
be worth quite a good deal in the United States
where they are rare. The leis are woven by hand,
and in spite of the fact that they are sold for only
twenty-five cents, a good deal of money is made in
the lei trade... In spite of the depression the busi-
ness has increased’ within the last: few years.

incomes

The city of Kastamouni, Turkey, has’ forbidden the
women of that town to eat meals in the public baths.
This has caused the women of Kastamouni to go to
other towns to bathe/so they may spend all day at
the bath houses as they formerly. did in their home
town, Formerly the bath was a great holiday for the
women and children. They would prepare their
lunches, go to the public bath houses at daybreak,
soak a while and then eat breakfast in the cooling
room. After breakfast the bathing would be re-
sumed until dinner. After dniner everyone would
take an afternoon siesta and then return to the work
of getting themselves clean,
time until long after supper.

This continued some-

The recent British attitude toward Japan in the
Manchurian dispute has led to believe that
Great Britain was planning on helping Japan with

some

Tibet. In a recent statement issued by the Foreign
Office this was strictly denied. “There is no truth
whatever in the report from Geneva that the govern-
ment is working to secure a free hand for Japan in
Manchuria in return for_a free hand for themselves
in Tibet. A free hand in Tibet is not and never has
beet’ an ambition of His Majesty’s Government in
the United Kingdom or of the Government of India,
and His Majesty’s Government's attitude in regard
to the Chinese-Japanese dispute is not influenced in
any way by considerations affecting Tibet.”

Delaware, if a bill before its Legislature Passes,
will soon take all the divorce trade from. the pres-
ently popular Nevada. The bill which is to be voted
on will grant divorces to anyone who has resided in
Delaware at least ten days. The present Nevada law
requires six weeks. Divorces will be granted for any
cause, and there will be no alimony granted the di-
vorced wives. Should this bill ‘pass the Legislature.
the State of Delaware would be almost as liberal
with its divorces as Russia is. Thus practically the
only difference would be the necessity for waiting
ten days in Delaware. 4

Lillian Leibrand wanted a wealthy suitor, so she
went to a marriage broker, Mrs. Yetta Adler, and
asked the fatter to find a rich prospect for mar-
riage. The charge for this service was ten dollars
paid in advance. Mrs. Adler found a shoe clerk and
a street car conductor, but neither answered Miss
Leibrand’s requirements as to finances. She wanted
a man with a large bank account, a rather-rare speci-
men at present; and extremely rare is one who would
marry under the conditions of Miss Leibrand. When
the marriage market proprietor was unable to de-
liver the goods, the customer demanded her money,
and after taking it to court, ‘got it. :

Adolf Hitler, new German Chancellor, is now at-

tempting to have a “Four Year Plan” and is asking

the German people to bear .with him during that
time. At the end of four years, if he has not ful-
filled his promises, Hitler states that he will be will-
ing to take any consequences. He also asked’ for-
eign nations to stand by without alarm, and observe
only the results of his leadership. Hitler is'trying to
get German equality with the other foreign nations.
What attitude the foreign nations will take is rather
hard to say, but there is no doubt that France will
be opposed to any raising of the status of Germany.
Hitler, in a recent statement, also remarked upon his
Anti-Semitic plans. He reassured foreign Jews that

any action taken by the Hitler regime will be justi-
fiable.
