1. 4 v ye
SCIENCE ACADEMY O. D. K. TAP DAY
MEETS FRIDAY : THURSDAY
Alenda Lux Gbi Orta Libertas
Vol. XX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 3, 1933 No. 28

DAVIDSON TO BE
HOST TO SCIENCE
ACADEMY FRIDAY

Dr. J. C. Bullitt. Will Will Deliver Presi- |
‘dent’s Address as Annual Meet-
ing Opens Here

THIRTY-SECOND MEETING

Many Visitors Are Expected to Attend
Two-Day Convention

The thirty-second annual meeting of the}

North Carolina Academy of Science will be
held at Davidson College, Friday and Satur-
day, May 5 and 6, All meetings, except the
business session at 4:15 Friday afternoon,
are open to the public.

The objects of the Academy are to pro-
mote study and scientific research and to
furnish a means of publication of such ar-
ticles as may be deemed worthy. The influ-
ence of the Academy has been noticeably
felt in the improved curricula, especially in
the sciences, of high ‘schools all over the
state,

The Executive Committee will meet on
Thursday evening at 8:00.o’clock. The offi-

cers are as follows: President, J. B.
Bullitt, U. of N. C.; Vice-President, Dr.

Earl H. Hall, N.-C. C. W.; Secretary-Treas-
urer, Dr. H. R. Totten, U. of N. C. The re-
maniing members are: Dr. C. M. Heck, N.C.
State; Dr. W. L. Porter, Davidson College,
and Dr. F. W. Sherwood.

The opening meeting will be held Friday
at 9:30 a. m., at which time papers of gen-
eral interest will be presented. The presi-
dential address will be delivered at 8:30
p.m. Friday, in Chambers Auditorium. Sat-
urday morning the Academy will meet in
sections as follows: General Section, Chem-
istry Section, Physics Section, and Mathe-
matics Section,

The college will entertain the Academy at
lunch Friday. There are about 150 mem-
bers, including college professors, physicians,
foresters, and business men,

Students Decide to
Amend Constitution

Freshman Voting Affected by Amend-
ing Article I, Section 3

Last Friday at the chapel hour, Davidson
students voted on an amendment of Article
I. Section 3 of the Davidson College Con-
stitution, proposéd by the recently retired
Student Council. The proposed amendment
states that “Freshmen become members of
the student body with full rights to vote,
immediately upon the installation of the
president of their rising Sophomore class,”
and it is designed to eliminate certain evils
which seem to exist in local student body
elections. The voting was decidedly in fa-
vor of the amendment.

Before the passing of the amendment, the
section read as follows: “There shall be a
Student Council which shall be composed of
fifteen members, including the president of

the student body, the presidents of the re-|

spective classes, and ten councilmen, of
whom five shall come from the Senior class,
three from the Junior class, | and two from
the Sophomore class. The president of the}
Freshman class shall not become a member
of the Student Council until after Christ-
mas. Freshmen become members of the
student body with full rights to vote, imme-
diately upon the seating of their president
on the Council.”

Inasmuch as the ruling had been changed
previously to do away with the president of
the Freshman class, the last clause of the
section will be changed to fit the recent
amendment.

Two main reasons were given by those
wanting the amendment passed. They
claimed first that the freshmen, on arriving
at college, are not familiar nor acquainted
with the abilities of the eligible candidates
and therefore cannot cast a fair and intel-
ligent vote; and second, that the first year
men are easily persuaded by
classmen friends to vote for the latters’ can-
didate. Passage of the amendment, they
claimed, would eliminate the existing evils
and bring clean elections back on the hill.

heir upper]

W. T. Thompson Starts REGISTRAR LISTS
Wonk on New Handbook’ HONOR STUDENTS
| |
Work on the 1933-34 V 34. Wildcat Handbook |
a Ronn begun under the leadership of OR FIRST TERM
Thompson, recently appointed editor. |
Be reer outlining of the work has been} | Twenty- two Seniors. Head List of
made and the book should round into shape! Those Attaining Necessary Honor

by the beginning of examinations. Average
Sophomores appointed to edit different | Thirty-six members of the student body
sections of the publication include: Don

Jail Siird G S E jaitained the Honor Roll for the first semes-
salley, Student Government ; am aton, | ter of the scholastic year 1932-1933, accord-

riba aiag) Jack toee the ae fp ane jing to F. W. Hengeveld, registrar. Of this
ae a ey ars Fa S ie a number, twenty-two were members of the
etics, “ach man has complete charge o Senior class.

his sectio .
section, The seniors were graded under the old

The book will probably go to press the | system of numerical grades, while the other
latter part of the month. Copies will be) classes were graded under the new apha-
mailed to all next year’s freshmen by the | betical system. To attain this honor an av-
registrar in August. lerage of ninety-five or over is required.
The business end is in charge of Joe | Only one freshman, A. G. Brenizer of
Wadsworth, business manager. He has ap-| Charlotte, earned this coveted honor. ;
peinted two freshmen, Addison Brenizer and| The following is the list of men who at-
Charlie Thompson, as his assistants. {tained the Honor Roll for the first semester
lof the year 1932-1933:

‘ . | Senior class: C. E. Bettis, Morristown,

Brown Wins First Place |Tenn.; P. F. Brown,.Atlanta, Ga.; S. J.
e ° Bryant, Bramwell, W. Va.; W. W. Calligan,
With Forceful Speech In | Wadesboro;. T. P. Caldwell, Yazoo City,

Miss.; J. C. Calhoun, Laurinburg; W. L.
Holshouser, Blowing Rock; A. G. Little, Val-

Peace Declamation Here

hascnmarerera = dosta, Ga.; D, D. MeBryde, Linden; J. T.

Prominent ‘Davidson Debater Stresses McClung, Bluefield, W. Va.; W. L. Me-
Futility of War and Urges World- = Keithan, Aberdeen; W. E. MeNair, Atlanta,
Wide Peace |Ga.; W. R. Morrow, High Point; W. F.

g | Mulliss, Martinsburg, W. Va.; H. F. Nichol,
Gérdon Brown, representing Davidson Col- Wilmington; J. KeoocParker, Jr. Mount
lege, won first place in the annual Peace Mourne; A. Patton, Greenville, S. C.; W. W.
Oratorical Contest, held’ Friday night at Seymour, Sanford; W. W. Shackelford, Dur-
Chambers Auditorium, with his oration on] jam: J. P. Thompson, Davidson; A, Watson,

“The Unseen War.”
First place carried with it a personal prize |

Anderson, S. C., and E. G. Williams, Little
Rock, Ark.

|
|

of $60, and a silver loving cup which is pre- Junior class: J.T. Blair, Albemarle; O.
sented to the winning school to be retained | | Casali, Welch, W. ag - S. M. Hines, War-
a year. The second prize of $40 was won| caw; J. A. McGeachy, Fayetteville; W. M.

by Margaret Mauney, who represented Le- | Thompson, Richmond, Va.; W. T. Thomp-

contest is awarded $60, and second place aes
$40.
It was announced by Professor Elwood Colonel Little Inspects

C. Perisho, of Lenoir-Rhyne, who is chair-
of the North Carolina Intercollegiate
Peace Association, that the prizes will be
changed for the forthcoming year. First
prize will consist of $50, second prize $30,
and third prize will be $20, he announced.
It was also announced by Professor Perisho
that the 1934 contest will be held at Lenoir-
Rhyne College in Hickory.

The judges for the contest were the Rev.
W. G. Clark, Charlotte; Frank A. Edmun-
Charlotte; the Rev. A. D. Milstead,

(Continued on page 4)

Davidson R. 0. T.C. Unit

Class Work and Field Work Judged
by Official; Rating Will Be Given
Later

man

Colonel J. M. Little, of the Fourth Corps
Area, U. S. Army, conducted the annual in-
spection of the Davidson R. O. T. C. unit on
Thursday and Friday, April 27 and 28.

Colonel Little Thurs-
day morning, April 27, and made an inspec-
tion of the class work, armory, and equip-
ment on Thursday and on Friday morning.
Certain sections were selected from each of
the to stand in
classroom work.

On Friday afternoon Colonel Little inspect-
ed the field work of the unit. The battalion
was formed at 2:10, an hour earlier than
usual, and was reviewed and inspected by
Colonel Little and the officers of the David-
son unit. Following the inspection of the
battalion, Company B was drilled in close
order and Company A was drilled in platoon
extended order drill.

Colonel Little has inspected the Davidson
R. O. T. C.qanit for the last three years and
he expressed the opinion that the showing
this year was just as good as it has been
in former years, if not better. The official
report of the inspection will not be received
before the latter part of May; however.

Major Rhett stated that he is very much
pleased with the splendid showing of the

arrived i Javidso
son, arrived in Davidson

Colwell, Johnson Are
Appointed Managers

Colwell Chosen for Yow! Staff and
Johnson for Davidsonian

four classes examinations

W. T. Johnson will be business manager
of “The Davidsonian,” and A. W. Colwell
|will head the business staff of “The Yowl”
lfor the coming year, it has been announced
Bob McCallie, president of the local
The business staff
has not yet. been

by
Board of Publications.
cf “Quips and Cranks”
officially announced.

These men have been active on the busi-
ness staffs of their’ respective publications
for some time.

The appointments of the new annual staff
will appear in the next issue of “The David-

sonian.” ‘
G. L. Green, W. L. Sprunt, J. R. Taylor,|battalion in both the~classroom and_ field
and J. C. Wadsworth have been selected work,

The local R. O. T. C. unit has made rapid
progress under the direction of the present
staff, especially considering the fact that Ma-
jor Rhett, head of the Military Department,
is operating his first year at Davidson. The
battalion as a whole has responded. faith-
fully to all orders of the officers of the staff.
The diligent work on the part of the stu-
dents and the military staff was reflected in
the excellent showing made by the unit in
the inspection.

Because of the excellent showing of the
unit Friday, Major Rhett cancelled the drill
scheduled last Monday.

as assistant. business managers of “The Da-
vidsonian” for next year, by Johnson.

A. G. Brenizer, W. C. Branton, Val Cas-

sells, J. B. Goslin, J. R. Hayworth, S. M.
Hutaff, R. B. Lindsey, J. S. McMullin, R. P.
Morrow, ’S. F. Marsh, T. F. Neal, IT. L.
Ross, W. B. Singleton, Fields Young, and
C. L. Young are solicitors on “The David-
sonian” business staff.
- Due to the large number of solicitors it
is expected that some will be eliminated.
The factors that will determine whether or
not a man will continue on the business staff
will be his ability and diligence.

Manson, Powell Chosen
to Head Student Store

The
Brooke

Student Store Board, composed of |
Allen and Leslie Thompson,
agers; Mr. F. L. Jackson and Mr. M. W.
McGill, faculty representatives; Jerome
Clark, president of the student body and}

chairman of the board; Fred Fleagle, Ath-

letic Association representative, and
Glasgow, Student Council representative, at
their last meeting chose Andrew Manson

buying manager of the store for the ensu-

ing year, and EK. L. Powell, bookkeeping
manager.
After a very lengthy discussion of the

eleven applicants, a secret ballot was held,
which resulted in the election of Manson and
Powell to fill these two responsible posi-
tions,

At this meeting the board also fixed the
salaries of the managers and clerks, which
comes under its jurisdiction.

The two retiring managers, Allen and
Thompson, have handled the affairs of the
store ably during the past. year,

Annual Y.M.C. A. Spring

Services Are Concluded
By Rev. Gypsy Smith

Inspiring Messages Brought to Stu-
dent Body by Famous Evangelist
in Three-Day Service

The

Gypsy

Spring Services, conducted by Rev.
Smith, Jr., drew to an end with the
address on last Wednesday evening, April
19. Speaking twice daily, Mr. Smith reached
students and visitors alike with his message
of Rebirth and Repentance. All the services
well attended.

Monday evening,
subject of “Spiritual Rebirth,”

were
Mr. Smith spoke on the
with the visit

noir-Rhyne. ‘son, Richmond, Va of Nicodemus to Christ as the scriptural

This contest is sponsored annually through | Sophomore class: M. W. Alderman, Al-|background to his words, Tuesday morn-
a fund left by the Misses Seabury of Bed-| colu, S. C.; WYM. Bogart, Charlotte; R. T.]ing. at the chapel hour, the salient points
ford, Mass., who have tried to bring peace Coit; Richmond, Va.; €. A. Coleman, Salis-Jof the preceding talk were summarized; that
to the world without force. This movement! }ury; J. M. Douglas, Jr., Davidson; J. H.|¢vening he spoke on “Repentance,” select-
was begun 28 years ago, and has continued | powell, Jr., Navasota, Texas; A. B. Rhodes,}ing the words of Christ as recorded in the
to be a subject of vital interest. A prize of | pocky Point: first chapter of Mark for the text, “Repent
$100 is awarded annually. First place in this) Freshman class: A. G. Brenizer, Charlotte.|¥¢, and believe in the Gospel.” The morning

talk on Wednesday centered on the theme,
“Fishers of Men,” as suggested in the fifth
chapter of Luke; that night, Mr. Smith gave
the history of his family and told something
of Gypsy life under the title, “From Gypsy
Tent to Pulpit.’ In this connection he read
the eighth chapter of Romans, dwelling with
especial emphasis on the fourth verse, “Watk
not after the flesh, but after the spirit.”
Speaking Tuesday evening, Mr. Smith de-
clared that repentance is neither fear of
things seen jor unseen, nor conviction of a
duty, nor yet a sense of sorrow, but rather,
a right about face on the present life to a
full knowledge of the love of God as a Fa-
(Continued on page 3)

¢

Halverstadt Chosen
For Judge of Court

McCallie, Pratt, Schenck, Ravenel,
Dees, Grimes, Purnell, Chosen
Members

On Saturday afternoon, Jimmy Halver-
stadt was named Judge of the Court of
Control for the coming year. Other mem-
bers selected at that time to serve on the
Court were: T. H. McCallie, L. W. Pratt,
A. F. Schenck, W. B. Ravenel, R. O. Dees,
Jr., L. M. Grimes, and L. T. Purnell. The
members were appointed by the president
of the student body in conjunction with the
senior members of the Student Council.

Halverstadt is a member of the Beta Theta
Pi social fraternity, and ranks number one
on the varsity tennis team. Several weeks
ago’ he was runner-up to Wilmer Hines in
the State Intercollegiate Tennis Tourna-
ment, and paired with Charles Myers to
take runner-up-honers in the doubles.

The Court of Control, an organization
which has grown out of the student body
as a means of handling freshmen, has met
with a great success this year from both
upperclassmen and freshmen. The retiring
members of the Court are: W. A. Flinn,
Judge; D. M. Bernard, F. L. Dickerson, C.
R. Wright, C. M. Rives, E. L. Powell, D. M.
Hutchins, and B. L. Rose.

man- |

Bob | °

| preside

(0. D. K. TAP DAY
WILL BE HELD BY

CAMPUS LEADERS

Davidson Chapter —t6° to Hold Annual
Spring Ceremony Here on
May 7

TO BID FACULTY MEMBER

|
|
|

2

Nearby Business Men to Be Received
as Honorary Members

The annual spring tap day of the local
chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa, national
honorary leadership fraternity, will be held
in the Davidson chapel tomorrow.

At this time, the ceremony will be admin-
istered to several-seniors, who will be tapped
first, and for various juniors who have been
outstanding in their three years of partici-
pation in campus activities. There will be
no especial order followed in the tapping
,of the rising seniors.

The local chapter plans to issue a bid to
one member of the faculty, whose identity
will be made known at that time. They
have also invited several outstanding men
living in the vicinity of Davidson to become
honorary members of O. D. K,

President Frank C. Brown,
English at Duke University, and retiring
president of the National Convention of
Omicron Delta Kappa, has been invited to
over these ceremonies, although no
arrangements have as yet been

professor of

definite
made.
Following the tap day on Thursday, the
annual initiation banquet is to be held on
Tuesday night, May 9,
“As a sequel to the Omicron Delta Kappa
initiation this week comes thé report on ac-

tivities of the Beaver Club. At the first
meeting of O. D. K. after tap day, the list
of twenty names selected by this year’s

Beaver Club will be presented to the mem-
bers of the
of next year’s Beaver
are to be ten,

The
O. D.
Sophomore

senior organization. . Members
Club, of whom there
will be picked from this list.
Beaver Club forms a type of junior
K., to which members of the
class who show

rising
greatest prom-
along lines of leadership are elected by
organization, Their main duty
(Continued on page 6)

Ise

that to

Is

Farce of Masquers
Progresses Rapidly

Talented Cast Will Present Play on
May 12

The Red and Black Masquers are speedily
bringing Oscar Wilde’s “The Importance of
Being Earnest” to perfection under the
rection of Ed Hancock, president of the or-
ganization, Since this is the last play that
President Hancock will produce, he is striv-
ing to make it the most ‘finished presenta-
tion of the year, From all evidences at re-
hearsals, the play will fulfill his ambitions.

The feminine roles are being filled ex-
pertly by Mrs. E. J. Erwin and Misses Adele
Arbuckle, Kalista Hood and Orrie’ Steele.
Mrs. Erwin has unbounded opportunities for
characterization in her part as an English
lady of high society. Miss Steele, who ap-
pears as a prim and precise governess, pre-
sents an authentic portrayal, resulting from
her researches in the subject. Likewise,
Kalista Hood and Adele Arbuckle are to be
commended for the interpretations of their
roles,

In regard to’ the male support, Wills Hol-
lingsworth, last seen in “The Game of
Chess,” and Nicholas Moss, of ‘Moonshine”
fame, are capably taking the main lead.
Gordon Wood appears as a rather liberal
and scholarly Episcopal rector. English but-
lers in all their starch and formality are im-
personated by Bill Johnson.and Roger Riley.

Dave Herring, who is well experienced in
stage mechanics, serves as stage manager,
with the assistance of Ed Holt and Don
Stewart. They have taken upon themselves
the task of recreating the scenery; and they
undoubtedly plan to remedy the artificiality
of the present sets.

Due credit is to be given Professor E. J.
Erwin for his supervision and coaching dur-
ing the endless rehearsals.

The definite date for the presentation of
the play, which is one of the best and most
amusing ever produced here, is May 12.

di-

