THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 1, 1933

- DUKE BLUE DEVIL
WRESTLERS
HERE THURSDAY

THE SPORTS PARADE

MOUNT PLEASANT
MEET FRESHMEN
THURSDAY

Davidson Freshmen Lose to Wofford
Yearlings in Preliminary

Davidson College’s basketball team had its
first taste of victory this season last Tues-
day night, January 24th, when it downed
the quint of Wofford College 27 to 25 in a
most exciting extra period tilt. In a prelim-
inary game the Wildkittens suffered defeat
at the hands of the Wofford Fresh, being
crushed by the score of 37 to 20.

The varsity game started exceedingly slow
as neither team was able to score at first.
Although both Davidson and Wofford took
many shots at the basket, the ball did not
;drop through. The South Carolina team

Davidson’ Hietio-teammecwillscontinine at | 48 the first to score and for a while the
eee eRe ey hae ltwo scores remained nearly the same. But

ith n ' ;
a busy ae a Fania pt el yee a about the middle of the half Wofford be-
aaaevat aN € ne re BP the €ohtests /gan slowly to get the edge on the ’Cats and
BAIS, 9) it a 7 tball gates with? “| when the half ended, the former were lead-
are varsity baske s, W

‘ Henig 14 to 5. Davidson’s defense seemed to
babs of Freshman games, and oealbe holding exceedingly well during the first
wrestling match. ; Renee | half, but somehow Mooneyham, Wofford's
terete we VaLeEy vata ig tall, lanky center, cased the ball through
Virginia, after—returning—trom_ Sout anor the hoop to chalk up seven of the 14 points
lina where Furman and Wofford ceucBe| scored by his team during the period,
ett ae oy eee an Lent a drieet’s | The second half, both teams started fast

; to) fe) ' : NES. a
VP. I. vere an fey entre College wie ee ese tog At IEE LA ue
A . | time, however, it was Davidson's time to

be met on consecutive days, beginning) have the advantage and she certainly took
lit. Although approximately the same men

Thursday, :
began the second half as the first, it seemed

the scores

The Freshman quintet meet Mount Pleas-
ant on Thursday, Ball's Creek a eel like another Wildcat team entirely. They
and Lees-McRae Gi Saturday i URE Ade | started from the whistle to fill up the gap
io Ce) which will be played Pett dul ain the scores, and as the gun sounded, Har-

Duke University’s wrestlers are schedule | ris dropped’ in the foul that tied the score.

to appear here Thursday afternoon to en-|

i i David In spite of Wofford’s admirable attempts
counter Coach Unger’s matmen in David-| 1) cotatiate and Eepeuln  AtiRle Tey Here
son’s third match of the season. |

| unable Their defense and their
will were strong, but the score told the tale.
Davidson scored first during the five-min-

to do so.

In addition to the inter-collegiate games,

the athletic program includes winter foot-| ute extra petiod, but on ‘the next play Wof-!

ball practice, under Coaches Newton and| ford tied the score again. Then the visitors
McEver; boxing instruction, under Captain | scored again only to have the ’Cats score
N. G. Pritchett; track workouts, under Cap- | he Wofford scored a foul, making the
tain Pritahett and Coach Whittle; inter- score 25-26, but just as the gun sounded,
fraternity basketball, gymnastic competition, Dickerson of Davidson dropped a foul in
and tennis. and the game ended Davidson 27, Wofford

'25. The play of Mooneyham, for Wofford,

The Davidson Athletic Committee, headed jand Boucher, for Davidson, was_ brilliant.
by Captain N. G. Pritchett, is working to| The former was high scorer, scoring 11
secure for Davidson the North Carolina enue
Junior College Basketball Tournament. The | Davidson (27) : Wofford (25) ;
tournament, if held here, would be played | Ross (4) RF. Robertson |
on February 23rd and 24th, and would bring | Harris (7) LF. Burlington (9)
together teams representing Belmont Abbey, | Holland (4) Center Mooneyham (1)
Presbyterian Junior College, Weaver Col- | Peabody (6) RG. Cannon (5)
lege, Rutherford College, Lees-McRae, Boil- | Boucher (1) L.G, leaker
ing Springs, Wingate, and Mars Hill. Substitutions: Davidson — Lafferty (4),
Captain Pritchett announced that should) Wagner, Dickerson (1); Wofford—Few,

the tournament be held here, a small charge} Norvell, Shuller, Allen.
would have to be made to Davidson stu-| Referee: Hackney.

dents, The purpose of the charge would be) :
to help bear the expense which the visiting | _ The Freshman game was an entirely dif-
teams would bring upon the college in their | ferent tale. Both teams started off in good
two days’ stay here, | shape and apparently ended up in the same
|shape except that one had a larger score

l the > . x > Wi ittens
Coach “Red” Laird’s proteges finally | than the other. Although the Wildkittens

A ; }scored first, they were unable to hold the
Hoppeus tie SrUnp une’ of Daven regrtlead and early in the first half the visitors
dents by defeating a hitherto unbeaten Wof- | Pee ie ile eae etree Seer
ford team for their first victory in seven | Wan ae
starts. After being outplayed 14-5 during | UNH! the closing gun.
the first half, fhe Wildcats came back after |
the intermission to tie the score at 21-all in
regular playing time, and then snatch vic~
Ley ihe Rue eooa Teamworle such | score, but were unable to advance further.
as _ that: displayed }by tue Wildcate—in soiara ba WiC South, Carolina Fresh sustained the at-
second and extra period of the Wofford

xame should bring victory to the Davidson | tack and then began to pile their own score
3 a rerotten i higher, until the end of the game when the
ive mo .

|score stood 37 to 20.

Pee Mullekit ] ie
Despite the defeat at the hands of Wash- | Cannon and Mullekin of. Wofford tied for

; high scoring honors, while Windham of the
i n, David-|,-. 1
ington oe aad serene Peet | Kittens came second. The former two rang
Son ae Meee Se Soy Gece eacinny ser § 8 ‘lup 13 pointers each while the latter got
and should give good account of themselves |

Umpire: Touhy.

diately after the half Davidson staged

came within four points of their opponents’

: aa seven,

Ineemeuynesnee te | Davidson Fresh Wofford Fresh
Coach Unger appeared with ~the team | o mders RE Cannon

Monday for the first time since he became) Dillard L.F. Anderson

ill ten days ago. His team made the Penn- | Baris Genter Hendly

sylvania trip without him, and since its re-} Deriker RG iMallelan

turn had been working out regularly with- | Wierd ivan LG Gregory

out his personal instruction. Although still |

. | Ref : Touhy.
weak, Coach Unger hopes to have his} LekaBs en

The first half ended |
with Wofford leading 20 to 12, but imme-!
a}
momentary comeback, at which time they!

Varsity Wins First Victory .
By Defeating Wofford 27-25

Dick Parker Leads
In Freshman Scoring

Dick Parker, star Freshman guard, is
leading the Freshmen in individual scoring
for the first five games of the season. Park-
er scored 11 field goals and four free throws
to take the lead with 26 points.

Coley Windham .was second with 21
points and Hack Sanders third with 16.
Windham gathered his total by scoring eight
field goals and five free throws, while Sand-
total came from six shots from the
floor and four from the free-throw line.

Freshman scoring:

ers’

F.G. F. T.P.

PAPER 2) sccecelescceccsulues 11 4 26
Wiahdhat):@) ocacesccsosoucces 8 5 21
SAnUChSait Gasococcuseecnescus 6 4 16
Dillstdeet) cera cacec esses cee 5 1 11
Js JOWNStON NC) usnconeccencenn a 4 1 9
Bitte) ch ccscesecseussuuucucass 4 0 8
Red Johnston, g. -------------- 1 1 3
WeeWigeetiin = sees ete sae 1 1 3
Matchatitaticscncecce-ceccco ack 1 0 2
Muptonvticesecensseneseasocuces 1 0 (4
Totals: ssvesseee egac cue estes 42 17 101

Franklin & Marshall
Grapplers Down ’Cats

Franklin & Marshall College at Lancaster,
Pa., defeated the Davidson wrestling team
31-3 last Tuesday night in the first meet of
the season for the Wlidcat grapplers.

Taylor, Davidson’s captain, won his match
by a time advantage for the only Wildcat
points, Warren Jones, Davidson's 118-pound
wrestler, had his. collarbone broken when he
was thrown for a fall with a body slam by
Dietrich of Franklin & Marshall, and will
be unable to wrestle again this winter.

Summary of the events:

Dietrich, 118 (F.M:) won by a fall over
Jones (D.) in 4 minutes, 36 seconds.

Jenkins, 125 (D.) lost to Bleakly (F.M.)
by a fallin-31 seconds.

Bader, 135 (F.M.) defeated “Owen
with a fall in 7 minutes, 55 seconds.

Forte, 145 (D.) was thrown for a fall in
2 minutes, 56 seconds, by Phillips of Frank-
lin- Marshall.

Cassel, Franklin-Marshall captain, threw
Quarterman, 155 (D.) in 3 minutes,

Schnitzer, 165 (F.M,) gained a three-min-
ute, 56-second time advantage over Potter
of Davidson.

Taylor, Davidson’s captain, wrestling in the
175-pound class, defeated. Hauer (F.M.) by
a time advantage of 7 minutes, 32 seconds.

Buesh of Franklin-Marshall | defeated
Whitfield of Davidson by a time advantage
of 3 minutes, 56 seconds.

(D.)

Kappa Sigs, K. A.’s, and
S. A. E.’s Are Winners

The inter-fraternity basketball
ment, which began last week, is now well
under way. Three games of the first round
have already been played: the Kappa Sigs
vs. the Phi Gams, the K. A.’s vs. the Phi
SA, (Bis the

tourna-

| Delta Thetas, and .the
IS. P. E's,

| In the first game of the tournament, last
| Wednesday, the Kappa Sigs defeated the
|Phi' Gams by the score of 31-23, Fred

| Fleagle, with 16 points, was high scorer for
ithe victors, John, Creech, ‘with 11

| points, was high scorer for the losers.

| On Friday night the K. A.’s won over the
|Phi Delts in a last-minute rally. The score
|was 16-14. Al Grant, Phi Delt forward, was
| high scorer with 10 points, and Bill Flinn,
LK, A. forward, was next with’ five.

| On Monday night the S. A. E.’s staged a
| final-quarter rally to defeat the S. P. E.’s
| 21-14. The high scorer was Bill Reid, S. A.
| E., who accounted for 11 points; Charlie
| Howard, S. P. I2., was second with six. The

VS.

while

wrestlers on edge for the Blue Devil mat-! +
men tomorrow. |

“DRUGS”

Ben Taylor, 175-pound member of the
Davidson team, showed’ the renowned Wild-
cat spirit Monday when he went on with
his match, although he had an attack of
influenza, ‘Despite his handicap he almost
tasted victory.

Various “schools” of psychology are char-
acterized by the same narrow bigotry as
may be found among contending sects.—Dr.
Charles S. Myers.

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

Make Our Store Your Store
Student Supplies

WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.

G Mi
“SODAS”

“SUNDRIES”

Junior Colleges May
' Play Tourney Here

G. Pritchett, director of athletics in the col-
lege, Davidson is attempting to have the
State Junior College Basketball Tournament
played here on February 23rd and 24th.

+The tournament includes: Belmont Abbey,

Presbyterian Junior College, Weaver. Col-
lege, Rutherford College, Boiling Springs
College, Wingate Junior College, Lees-Mc-
Rae, and Mars Hill Collegiate Institute. It
will be played by elimination series, which
will make seven tilts to be played in all.

In case the touranment is brought here
there will be a slight charge imposed on
Davidson students in order to defray the ex-
penses of the teams.

The tournament will present an excellent
opportunity for students and coaches to see
some of the most promising athletes of the
day in action. These men, after they grad-
uate from the junior college in which they
now are, will still be eligible for two more
years of college athletics and this would
present a good opening to interest them in
Davidson. There would be an excellent op-
portunity for the students and fraternities
to entertain the boys and try to get them to
attend school here when they finish junior
college. ,

The plan therefore proves to be an ad-
vantage both as entertainment for the stu-
dents and an advertisement for the college,
and it is hoped that if it is completed that
the students will co-operate in making it a
success in both respects.

History will record it of us that we were
a people who gave up work and took to
politics, who laid down our tools and sat on
committees.—Sir Ernest J. P. Benn.

S. A. E.'s scored nine points in the final
period to win the game.

The tournament promises to be more in-
teresting ‘as it progresses, although “Doc”
Newton, head football coach, has prohibited
winter football candidates from participation.

Through the negotiations of Captain N.1-

Davidson Matmen Lose
To Washington and Lee

In First Home Contest

Forte and Whitfield Win Time Advan-
tages to Score Davidson’s Six
Points

A strong array of grapplers from, Wash-
ington and Lee University was.too much
for the Davidson varsity wrestling team,
and the Blue and White aggregation won the
encounter, 22 to 6, The matches were held
in the Davidson gym last Monday, and were
exciting from beginning to end.

Individual contests were close, but as a
team the W. and L. aggregation was vastly
superior to the local contingent. The two
matches won by Davidson.-were both on
time advantages, Forte winning over R. De-
van in an extra period affair, in the 145-
pound class, and Whitfield taking the meas-
ure of T. Devan in the unlimited division.
Two falls were registered, both by Wash-
ington and Lee wrestlers. Thomas of W.
and L, pinned Dillon in the 118-pound class,
and Pritchard threw Potter in the 165-pound
weight. :

Summary:

118-pound class: P. Thomas (W. & L.) de-
feated Dillon by a fall in 4 minutes, 30 sec-
onds. :

126-pound class: Sarkis (W. & L.) had a
time advantage of 7 minutes, 18 seconds over
Jenkins. :

135-pound class: Munger (W. & L.) had
a time advantage of 8 minutes, 3 seconds
over Owens,

145-pound class: Forte (Davidson) had a
time advantage ‘of 5 minutes, 18 seconds over
R. Devam (extra period).

155-pound class: Smith (W. & L.) had a
time advantage of 1. minute, 5 seconds over
Quarterman.,

165-pound class: Pritchard (W. & L.) de-
feated Potter by a fall in 8 minutes, 45 sec-
onds, :

175-pound class: Thomas (W. & L.) had
a time advantage of 1 minute, 6 seconds
over Taylor.

Unlimited class: Whitfield (Davidson) had

Big Five Standings

Team W. L. Pct.
North Carolina __----.--- 4 0 1.000
Dukes] S25 Sao o se 4 0 1,000
Davidson _-----.---=----- 0 2 000
NiiGeState 222220 2 0 2 .000
Wake Forest ________---- 0 4

a time ddvantage of 9 minutes, 26 seconds
over T. Devan.

I never mail a letter in which I have ex-
pressed anger until the next day—then I
destroy it—Congressman Cyrenus Cole.

Misunderstandings are serious only when
we ignore the other man’s point of view.—
Georges Theunis.

ONVENIENT
LOSE
ANITARY
HEAP

stu

NORTON’S B

sooner or later.

of SERVICE.

Come by---every student does

More than 50,000 hair cuts for
dents in our 20 years, is our record

ARBER SHOP

+

e

DAVIDSON
Work Done While You Wait

NOTICE---Have Your Shoes Rebuilt at the

SHOE SHOP

- C. A. KENNEDY, Proprietor

e

SH.

For the College Man

CTab Collar Shirts, by Arrow
Wool Check Ties, by Resilio .
Check Suspenders, by Hickok .

IDEY'S

$1.95
1.00
. 1.50

DSON
OP

