Social Fraternities

During the past week or two, important
events haye been taking place among the
various fraternities on the campus. The “Da-
vidsonian” proposes to keep the student body
informed as to the various activities of the
fraternities in the future.

The Beta Theta Pi’s have completed their
elections for the new year, and the officers
are as follows: Rawling Pratt-Thomas,
president; Jimmy Halverstadt, vice-presi-
dent; Latimer McClintock, treasurer; Fred
Smyre is Pan-Hellenic representative.

The members of the Pi Kappa Alpha fra-
ternity enjoyed a house party held this past
week-end, The affair was informal in nature,
held in cabaret style. The music, furnished
by Reeves Pope and his Southernaires, was
featured by several novelty numbers. Miss
Sarah Thompson of Charlotte song several
selections. The guests were as follows:
Misses Esther Brown, Jane Moore, Gertrude
Ross, Ellen White, and Isabel White, of
Concord; Miss Louise Thompson and Miss
Mary Thompson, of Davidson; Misses Maria
Drane, Betty Hunter, “Wiz” Lambeth, “Bid-
die” Maddox, “Sal” McKinnon, Mary Payne,

Eleanor Killick, and Miriam Steele, of Char-
lotte; Dougie Long, Joyce Sayre, and Billy
Cole, of Greensboro; Sara Stevens and Lib
Price, of Winston-Salem; Betty Tuttle, of
Reidsville; Mary McCoy, of Concord, and
Katherine Greene, of Gastonia.

Sigma Phi Epsilon held its annual installa-
tion banquet last Saturday night at the S.
& W. Cafeteria in Charlotte. The banquet
marked the turning over by the senior mem-
bers to the new officers duties of the fra-

ternity. The officers elected were: J. A.
Hunter,. president; Hugh Hawkins, vice-
president; Stuart Henry, secretary; John

Fitzgerald, treasurer. Huntet was also elected
Pan-Hellenic representative. Several ladies
and a number of alumni were present at the
banquet.

New officers of Phi Delta Theta are: John
Lafferty, president; P. D. Guerrant, secre-
tary, and Julian West, treasurer.

The other fraternities will complete their
elections after the holidays.

Davidson Five and
Ten Years Ago

FIVE YEARS AGO

Betty Simmons, Sarah Thompson, and Kitt In the State Golf Tournament, played at

VanEchop, of Charlotte.

The P. K. A. fraternity on March 30 ini-
tiated Richard Hillier; James Hurst, and
Walter Ogburn.

At a recent meeting of Kappa Alpha, La-
nier Pratt was elected president; T. Hooke
McCallie, vice-president; John Drake, sec-
retary; Warner DuBose, corresponding sec-
retary, and, Don Bailey, treasurer. Fred Mc-
Phail was elected Pan-Hellenic representa-
tive.

Phi Gamma Delta sponsored a party last
Saturday night at Mr. Davidson’s lodge on
the Catawba River..The house was attract-
ively decorated and music for the occasion
was furnished by a prominent negro or-
chestra of Charlotte. The following guests
were present: Misses Eulalie Matthews and

the Sedgefield Country Club in Greensboro,
on April 14, between Davidson, Carolina,
Duke, and Wake Forest, the Davidson team,
composed of Mortin, Mills, Wilson, and
Lingle, took second place.

With a change or executives of the “Y”
a new cabinet was inaugurated. The scope
of the work for the next year is to be some-
what broader than that of the~closing year,
and several new positions on the cabinet
have been made. These new departments
will be headed by Mac King, on Personal
Work; Dewitt Helm on Social Service, and
Nelson Myers on Chapel Services.

“Quips and Cranks,” the Davidson year-
book published by the senior class, will be

ford, N: C., who won the honor in the recent
election, defeating R. C. Grady.

TEN YEARS AGO

The faculty will be enlarged next session
by the addition of three new teachers, Pro-
fessor F. L. Blythe and Messrs. C. K. Brown
and W. N. Mebane, all alumni of Davidson.
The college will be able to do better work
than heretofore as the seetions in the lower
classes will be smaller.

The past week has witnessed the selection
by the individual classes of their leaders to
pilot their activities during 1924, and with
it is brought to a close the various class
elections during the year. R. R. Jones, C.
M. S. MelIlwaine, and William Baker are
the choices of the rising senior, junior, and

H

YW iy
Y MMVVZV;VJZHV4

Yy
WW

YY

UMM

VW MUM

Wis
ZL

can be done.

We

WM

—Y

dents.

Dr. Sentelle addressed the combined Min-
isterial and Volunteer bands in a meeting
Sunday morning, April 15. He discussed sub-
jects vital to ministerial candidates, “Should
a College Graduate Spend a Year in Teach-
ing Before Attending a Theological Semi-

nary?”

McBryde to Attend

Student Conference

Davidson will be represented at the tenth

annual meeting of the Southern Student Con-
ference on International Relations, at both
Fmory University and Agnes Scott College
in Decatur, Georgia, by Duncan McBryde,

THE GREATEST
UNDERWEAR VALUE

You can pay more than HANES costs—but you can't get more.
Just try to match HANES values.

There’s the Gold Label Light Weight Union Suit or Shirts and
Drawers. SAMSONBACK Athletic Union Suits with the tug-of-war
belt. That’s patented and can’t be imitated, Pull-Over Shirts and
Shorts in a variety that will make it easy for the most fastidious
to choose from. All at prices that will make you wonder how it

P. H. HANES KNITTING CO., Winston-Salem, N. C.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 12, 1933 3
7 Lillian Rooke, of Brenau; ‘Eleanor Hayes,| edited -in 1929 by J. R. Covington, of Rae-|sophomore classes as their respective presi-| president of the local_chapter.__The—confer-

ence will discuss national and international
affairs considered of interest by students of
the colleges and universities represented.
Reports will be made of the work carried
on during the past year. Lyman Clardy, sec-
retary of the I. R. C. here, will not attend.
Each year a conference is held by the
organization, and representatives, ordinarily
the president and secretary, participate.
Grier Martin represented. Davidson in the
meeting last year at Winter Haven, Fla.

and Then

COMMENCEMENT

GRADUATION

a SENIOR’S desire is to
have a lasting remembrance
of college life. These are
brought about by college ties,

formalities and .... .

Commencement
Invitations

See E. O. Guerrant
A. M. Manson

\ Vhy 1S the tem removed

= the = en _—

4

ales a very simple question to answer.
The stem in a tobacco leaf, like the stem
in most other plants, is “woody”. It hasn’t
any of the flavor or the aroma that you
want when you smoke. And it doesn’t

burn right.

So after tobacco has been properly aged,
one of the first things to do is to remove

the stems.

But what has this to do with your enjoy-
ment of Chesterfield cigarettes? Just this.
It means that we start right when we make
Chesterfield—the right kind of leaf with

the stem

removed, the right manufacture

— everything that science knows that can
make CHESTERFIELD a milder cigarette, a
cigarette that tastes better.

That’s why people say “They Satisfy.”

Wherever you buy
Chesterfields,you get
them just as fresh as
if you came by our
factory door

Tobacco used to be stemmed by hand—Now
this machine stems 14,300 leaves every hour.

© 1933, Liccsrr & Mysrs Tosacco Co.

