THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY TI,, 1933

The PMabidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FQUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina, ’ :

Articles for publication must ‘be in the hands of the

Managing Editurs by 4:00 p. m., Monday.
EDWARD O,. GUERRANT .=.-Editér-in-Chief
A. M. MANSON Manag

; __, . EDITORIAL STAFF a ‘éa-ens
W. CLARDY....... : ging Editor
n F. SCHENCK. Managing Fditor
W.M OMPSON : M ing Editor
AS WILLIAMS. Managing Editor
DI CASALI Athletic Editor
. EB E. : Exch Editor
- W. WHITE é Feature Editor
» S. GAMBLE.._......--2. 22:2 2-2 oso =e 2s. - Feature Editor
- T. GOODYKOONTZ..........-..-..-..-.--' Contributing Editor
¥. A. HANCOCK Review Editor
E 0
R. p. MeCALLIE Associate Editor
C. F. MYERS. yi t itor
B. B, SUGG Associate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
. T. JOHNSON Assistant Busi Manag
M H. AANSON Assistant B Ma
ALVIN_ BAYER, JR icitor
H. B. DANIEL Solicitor
i M. DOUGLAS. Solic
W. b, SPRONT itor
TR: TAYLOR as Solicitor
EA WHIte Solicitor
REPORTERS’ CLUB
President
f. s GAMBLE Vice-President
LEWIS GREGG 3 etary-Tr r
..L.. McCLINTOCK
RH ALDERMAN. Ae rei LWINE
G. E. BAILY E. F, McPHAIL
D. B. BAILEY W. C. NEILL
*B. C. BARNES W. _L.. NORTHEN
. E. BOWE C. E,. NORVELL
I E. BOYD E, L. POWELL
. H. COVINGTON S. P: PRES
S. K. EATON P. M. ROGERS
i B. FICKLIN B. L, ROSE
. L. GULLE T. H. S' N
ACK_HELLINGER N. W. WALLACE
y Cc. HENRY K. D, WEEKS
k A. HUNTER W. R. WARD
. E. LORRAINE W._T. THOMPSON
T. F--W0OOD i W. WHITE
W. F. MULLISS . PRATT-THOMAS

FEBRUARY 1, 1933

“A friend is one who smiles on our fortunes,
frowns on our faults, sympathises with our sor-
rows, weeps at our bereavements, and is a safe
fortress in all times of trouble.’—Helen Hunt.

SEREERLAES , RON
THOUGHTS IN PASSING

The spiritual life of the community was enriched
last Sunday by the splendid sermon by Dr. Foreman
at the morning church service and the inspiring
service given by members of the Y. M. C. A. from
Carolina at vespers Sunday night.

ee cae

Dr. Foreman preached one of the best sermons we

have heard in many months last Sunday morning.
D.

We were glad to see such a fine attendance at ves-
pers Sunday night. The Carolina deputation gave an
excellent program.

| pe

It was inspiring to hear members and leaders of

was filled with both worried and smiling faces. How-
ever, there is one consolation in that the results were
not in most cases as bad as anticipated.
(pees es
The Wildcats came back against Wofford in true
Davidson fashion. Coach Laird and his boys deserve
a big hand for their thrilling victory over this team
that had been thus far undefeated.
————— EEE
The Davidson victory was especially impressive be-
cause not only had Wofford a clean slate before the
game, but they were also leading South Carolina
teams and at the top of the S. I. A. A. loop.
—D
We not only wish the Wildcats success in the com-
ing Big Five games, but believe they will be more
successful now than earlier in the season.
: Roe
Spring football practice started off with a bang.
Already several scrimmages have taken place.
D
Caaches “Doc” Newton and Gene McEver are hard
at work, and mean business. We feel the 1933 edition
of “Those Fighting Wildcats” will be something of
whith to be proud.

Quite a bit of interest has been stirred up by the
boxing school Captain Pritchett is conducting.

enlarged noses, ears, eyes and other bruises seen on
the faces _of some boys on the hill,
0
The interchanging of deputations from college Y.
M. C. A.’s and Y. W. C. A.’s is a fine movement and
we hope it will continue.

D

The night skating
sure sign of an early spring.
: ————P. ;
The Pan-Hellenic dances ought to be successful
with a good orchestra, girls, and everything.

while precarious, is a

AFTER COLLEGE, WHAT?’

In about four months, in all parts of the
United States, colleges will hold their gradua-
tion exercises, and thousands of young men
and women will be attempting to find for
themselves a place im the game of life.. Many
will succeed in securing a positiom in the al-
ready overcrowded industrial system and will
soon be drawn into the struggle for advance-
ment. A much larger percentage will be un-

_able to locate themselves, and will thus drift

along until some place accidentally opens for
them, or they become crushed under the mob.
Another group of the graduates will continue
their education in order to be better able to
offer competition when they finally enter the
game of life.

|The first group, those who are able to get
into the business world now, will in later times
have.a much greater advantage than those
who enter during prosperous times. Facing
the present economic conditions will teach
them many things which they would not other-
wise have learned. After they have with-
stood the stresses of the present period, the
members of this group will know how to meet
any similar crisis in the future. They will be
trained in the school of hard knocks.

Very little can be said for the second group,
but that we all hope it will be as small as
possible. In these times it is almost as eco-
nomical to join the third group, which is made
up of those who are anxious to limit their
activities, but to advance far above the mass
in the activity of their choice. They attempt
to specialize in one phase of life, and in the
end, to make themselves of service to society
by their superior knowledge in their particular
field. At the present time this method is much
more appealing than before. Now there are
no golden opportunities awaiting the college

graduate, but by specialization and continued

study the college graduate can create an op-
portunity. His services will be desired if he
has a superior knowledge in a specialized
phase of the modern world.

Thus a college, graduate who goes into a
job directly from college is soon able to gain
a great deal of practical experience which is
necessary in almost any field. This experi-
ence teaches him something which he cannot
get in college; but it will advance him only
to a certain point. The man who continues
his training along a specialized line will be
behind the previously mentioned man, because
of his lack of experience, but, having gotten
his practical education, he will be able to ad-
vance to a higher level than his companion.

—JAMES W. WHITE.

CLASS OF 1937

A _few-weeks ago there appeared in The
Davidsonian an_article urging all the members
of the student body to speak to at least one
good prospect and attempt to influence him to
come to Davidson next fall. The purpose of
this campaigning as stated in that article, was
to gain a large Freshman class next year in
order to have the largest class in the history
of the college, graduate on its hundredth an-
niversary. Many of our students carried out
their promise and obtained. the names of high
school and preparatory school students who
would consider coming to Davidson. These
names were turned in, and a committee has
made a list of these. Other plans are also be-
ing laid to carry on this campaign, but we
want to impress on the members of the stu-
dent body the necessity of keeping up the in-
terest in this endeavor, Needless to say there
are many good men whose names have not
been turned in to this committee, and who
would possibly come to Davidson. There is
a great amount of work which can be done
in this campaign, and the members of the stu-
dent body should take it upon themselves to
look up any men, who would be desirable stu-
dents at Davidson, during the coming spring
and summer. This is an endeavor which could
be carried on ard fostered to a great extent
by the alumni, who. may be in contact with
some men not known to members of this stu-
dent body,

If interest is allowed to lag, the outcome
will be doubtful, but if every person on this
campus would take it upon himself to make
an honest effort to bring men to Davidson for
the next incoming class, there is no reason
why the project should not be very successful.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E, LAKE

Tulane
The audacity of some of the “guhls” of today. Some
of the young ladies at Sophie Newcomb have taken
up the manly habit of smoking pipes, the one smok-
ing habit that we men thought was left for us alone.
The Tulane Hullabaloo shows a picture of five of
them smoking,

University of Alabama

| These gals. A Chicago University co-ed in a Latin
class translated Arma virumque cano as “I cry for
the arms of a man.” _

The Chesterfield program now presents Ruth Etting
on Monday and Thursday nights at 9 o'clock; Tom
Howard, George Shelton, and Elizabeth Barthell,
Tuesday and Friday at the same hour, and on

I SAW

WORLD SPECTATOR

THE: BALLAD: OF THE PRODIGAL SON
“Why. coom ye hame: sae: soon, my soon,
Why coom ye hame sae soon?
Ye’re here before the end! of Feb.,
Ye used’ to coom in June;

“Why—are_ye-hame_fra’ college, son,
Wi’ trunk and suitcase now;

The sparwe’s scarce begun to chirp
Upon the birchen bough?”

faq
“© mither, mither, don’t be sad,
It’s bonny,” said the son,
“T’ll swink nae more til! Michaelmas,
Vacation has begun,”
“Ye're nae’ telling the truith, my son,
Your cheek is flushed we’ bluid,
Ye’re nae telling the truith, my son,
¥e’re nae been acting guid.”
“© mither, mither; my health is bad,
I’m Iene as is a lath,
And I’m sent hame to rest a wee
From moiling on my math.”
“Ye’re nae telling the truith, my son,
Your eye is samken doon,
Ye’re nae telfing the truith, my son,
What brings ye hame sae soon?”
“O mither, mither, I’m put on Pro,
And overcut a clas,
The Dean has sent me hame to ye
To bide for aye, atas!”
“Then ye ean swink and moil, my son,
And fra’ my hame ye’ll go,
For I'll mae pay to feed and clothe
A.son that’s put on Pro.” : :
Ww. S.

. .. dignified Davidson become skate-consciots all
of a sudden, Everybody is skating these days and
those who don’t know how are learning. It has come
to the point where a charming young matron about
town has taken it up. I won't divulge her name, but
must admit that she’s an expert. Postmaster Louis
Potts found it necessary to put up a sign forbidding
skating in the P. O. After all you have to draw the
line somewhere.

... the fun-loving son of a prof. pin a “Kick Me”
sign no unsuspecting Ed Hancock who was doing
some” practicé téaching at the local high schoo!, I
hear it almost broke up the ctass, and Ed was at a
loss to imagine the cause of all the merriment until
his attention was called to the tabel on his back.

.

. .. beau brummel Malcolm Grimes, Jr., receive a
whole crate of oranges last week. And popular, why
you almost have to stand in line to visit him. I called
and I must say they are delicious.

site: Sensation-loving ‘Caskie Norvell spread it
around that Brown-Eyes McCue is entered in the
Golden Gloves Tournament in Charlotte. Buck Mills
sent in, his name and placed him in the 170-tb
class. Just lately McCue has become an authority
on pipes. He rooms with Bernard who is a real con-
noisseur of good pipes and in turn McCue has be-
come an expert.

. a goodly crowd attend “20,000 Years in Sing
Sing” at the local cinema. I didn't go because I
didn't see how I could remain through ' such a long
picture and I afterwards heard anyway that it was
much too mellow.

. and heard intellectual Fanny Wood telling Bill
Johnson how much he adores caviar, Debonair Bill
retorted, “Yes, isn’t he.a swell singer.”

TIP POFF.

Wednesday and Saturday at nine bells they have
Bing Crosby.

Winthrop
Joseph Szigeti, Hungary’s greatest violinist, will
play for the benefit of the Winthrop audience, Fri-
day, February 3rd.

Allegheny College

There is an editorial in the Allegheny school paper
entitled: “Is This Education?” Here ’tis:

“I can solve a. quadratic equation, but I cannot
keep my bank balance straight.

“I can read Goethe's ‘Faust’ in the Original, but I
cannot ask for a piece of bread in German.

“T’can name the kings of England since the Wars
of the Roses, but I do not know the qualifications
of the candidates in the elections.

“I know the economic theoties of Malthus and
Adam Smith, but T cannot live within my income.

“I can recognize the ‘Leit-Motif? of a Wagner
opera, but I cannot sing a tune.

“T can explain the principles of hydraulics, but ‘I
cannot fix a leak in the kitchen faucet.

“I can read. the plays of Moliere in the’ original,
but I cannot order a meal in French.

“I have studied the psychology of James and
Titchner, but I cannot control my own temper,

“I can conjugate Latin verbs, but I cannot write
legibly.

“I can write hundreds of lines of Shakespeare, but
I do not know the Declaration of Independence, Lin-

coln’s Gettysburg Address, or the Twenty-third
Psalm.”

__blende from which the radium is extracted.

Leon Trotsky, originator of the Russian Five Year
Plan and! former Soviet leader, im a recent book, has
declared that the: maintenance of the present Soviet
system dépends upon revolution in other European
countries, Trotsky, writing the history of the Rus-
sian Revolution, makes attacks upon Stalin and his
policy. Trotsky claims to be the founder of the Five
Year Plan; and slows: not only its good points but
its weaknesses. He admits that the Soviet cannot
continue along its socialistic tines unless there is a
world revolution. Trotsky thinks that When Russia
embraced’ Communism it aided the advancement of
humanity and that the Russian Revolution is only
a link in’ the world’ revolution which will come by
degrees, At the present time, therefore, Russia is
awaiting revolution im other countries. Until that:
time she cannot make great steps forward.

Canada has a radium deposit which is as large as.
the one in the Belgian Congo, from which most: of
the world’s supply of radium is gotten ‘at the pres-
ent time. The Canadian deposit has a supply of*pitch-
The
process of éxtraction is very expensive so that a
gram of radium has a market value of about $100,-
000. The Canadian deposit, which has been worked
for only a year, is very rich, but is far from any
railroad. The ore must be carried over eight hundred
miles of swamp before the nearest ‘rail connection is
reached. This is worth while in the case of the
radium ore, which is worth about $6,250 a ton. The
deposit contains not only radium ore but silver, cop-
per, gold, cobalt, bismuth manganese, and’ coal but
these latter minerals are not valuable enough to war-
rant their being mined so far from any railroad.

Since 1920, the rate of deaths from cancer has been
increasing, while the deaths from tubercufosis have
declined. The balance of the death rates is thus.
maintained, although the causes have clranged slight-
ly. Cancer uswally attacks its victims in the latter:
part of their lives, unlike tuberculosis, which gains
headway in youth. The per cent of increase of can~
cer is shown by the statement that im 1920 the prob-
ability of dying of cancer was about 7 per cent white
in 1930 it was approximately 9 per cent.

While the Technocrats attempt to analyze the: in-
dustrial system and at the same time squabble among
themselves, the American Institute of Electrical! En-
gineers holds meetings and diseusses the latest ad-
vances in the field of electrical engineering. In a
recent convention in New York the Institute was told
of an electrical device for mixing chemicals. This
apparatus operates the valves and churns by elec-
tricity, and also determines the strength of the chem-
icals mixed. The result is that the prodwet is pre-
pared quicker and has a uniformity wltich is not
possible with hand-operated mixers. The use of this
electrical apparatus will reduce the number of men
necessary in the operation of many chemical processes,
Another labor-saving device is an automatic paper
cutter which speeds up the process and at the same

time eliminates the necessity for ome workman to

each machine.

In spite of all proposals for disarmament, and in
spite of all naval treaties, France, though it is within
her rights to do so, is building a new battleship
which will cause a great setback in the little progress
that has already been made in the direction of dis-
armament. This battleship, to be named the Dun-
querque, is to be different from any previous type
of vessel. She will be larger than the so-called pocket
battleships, and smaller than the dreadnaughts, and
will have a tonnage of about 22,500. This type of
vessel is not mentioned in the naval treaties, so that
France has a freedom of which she is taking advan-
tage. She is even making plans for some sister ships
to follow the Dunquerque. There are two ways of
meeting this situation: one way is by the immediate
limitation of this type of warship by the major na-
tions at.a conferences To make this a success it is
necessary to act very soon, before France does very
much work upon her ship. The other method would
be to allow the nations to compete with one another
in the building of these ships, with a result that the
citizens would be weighted down even more with’
taXes. It seems that the former method is much
more practical, because there are enough taxes placed
upon the people of the different nations at the pres-
ent; but if the plan is to work it must bé done very
soon, for if France’ has done very much work on her
ship she will naturally want’ to use it and not waste
it. In passing, we might wonder how France can
honestly refuse to pay her debts to us, but at the
same. time start spending huge sums of money upon
her navy. But that is another qugstion. a

A New York farmer has made an attempt to dis-
Prove the saying that “You can’t eat your cake and
have it too.” He had a farm out. of. which he was
making little or no profit. The soil was an extra
rich loamy variety, so the man decided to sell some
of his farm. He has been pressing the soil into small
packages about the size of bricks, and through the
five and ten cent stores has been selling the packages
to people who have potted plants. Thus the farmer
sells his land but keeps his farm, He states that his
supply of loam will last for quite a long time,

One thing which escapes the machine age is pretzel
bending. Attempts have been made to do this by
machinery, but the results are far from satisfactory.
The pretzel bender still holds:his place in industry just
like the watchmaker who has to put his watches to-
gether by hand. The pretzel bender is an artist,
trained to note the exact feel of the dough and to put
just the right twist’in the pretzel. :
