THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 1, 1933
— -
DR. GWYNN IS CONDUCTOR that he desires to be segregated, as in Har-| usually work in groups of twos or threes. MANY DEPUTATIONS TO Greene (11) Cc. (6) Dengate
OF FIRST FIRESIDE FORUM | lem or in Chicago, It gives instructions as to the manner in GO OUT DURING WEEK |Shoun (5) G. (7) Davis
Ene ae Even if we educate the negro into equal-| which the task is to be approached, and SHEA ya Sigmon (6) G. (4) Feldman
(Continued from page 1) ity, we must at the same time educate the| how to obtain the desired information. (Continued from page 1) ‘ —_—_——-
problem staring it so full in the face. South | white to accept him; and hére the question ee Rock Hill, where it will participate in the PRELIMINARIES
America has praetically settled it, by allow- arises as to where the starting point lies. WILDCAT GRAPPLERS END College Hill Church service, held yearly at Weaver (34) Position (43) L.-McRae’
ing the races to mix; but it was here shown | Some argued that we should treat the negro SEASON WITH 14-14 TIE|this time. The service will have as its| Bonnett (2) F, (8) Sigmon
that science has proved it profitable not to|#5 equal in dealings and in business, but speakers Charlie Moore and John Howard] p.ittain (5) F. Slaughter
allow the two or three factions to inter-| make a different case of him as a race. (Continued from page 5) of Davidson, and two young ladies from} ponson (19) C. (19) Greene
marry, ‘and to prevent this we have laws| Facts of entire segregation were dis-| potter brought Davidson into the lead by | Winthrop. Ingle (2) G. (9) Williams
forbidding the marriage of persons of dif-|Cussed, as putting them all in a colony to|, time advantage over Auman. Then Idol] A deputation will also go to N. C. C. W. Sarsahner G. (6) Agle

ferent races. It was also shown that mix-
_ing generally results in dissatisfaction. The
last—point to be brought out was that the
negroes we got from Africa were not of
the highest class; mainly this caused their
present condition.

The next question for discussion was:
“What will the negro of tomorrow want to

do, and what place will he occupy?” There
was much controversy over this; but the}
conclusion was finally reached that most
negroes don’t want intermarriage, but that |
they want recognition. Mainly not social
recognition, but political recognition.

It was brought out that we generally
draw the line at intelligence. As negroes
grow into the sphere of higher intelligence,
we more or less accept them, but even then
their place is not realized. Facts were then
discussed as to whether the negro wants
segregation or discrimination. It was decid-
ed along this line that he desires discrim-
ination on some points, but on sych points
as laws and opportunities, he expetted prac-
tical equality. He has shown in some cases

themselves and letting them rule them-
selves. But it was shown that this did not
prove successful in Liberia, and was con-
demned as a solution. The closing points
were that purity of the races should be

kept, but*for biological reasons; that inter-.

marriage does not occur in the higher
classes of either race, except in certain
very exceptional cases.

Due to the dances the following week-
end, the Fireside Forum will meet again
next Friday at nine in the Social Center.
At this time the subject for discussion will
be “Disarmament and World. Peace,” and
as sub-head under this, “The Pro’s and
Con’s of R. O. T. C.” will be debated.

Ponca ARO Yveht Efe tinseive tes
COLLEGE STUDENTS HELP
. IN SOCIAL WELFARE WORK

(Continued from page !)

Welfare than is the duty of apportioning
money to those who are in need.
The Department of Public Welfare fur-

nishes transportation for the students, who| Whitfield, time advantage 8:51. -

tied it up by his time decision over Whit-
field.

Davidson will lose only two men _ -this
year, Whitfield and Captain Ben Taylor.
Most of the remaining classes are filled by
Sophomores and indications point to a suc-
cessful team next year.

Summaries:

118 pounds—Hussey (U. N. C.) defeated
Harris, time advantage 7:55.

126 pounds—Mathewson (U. N. C.) de-
feated Jenkins, time advantage 7:35.

135 pounds—Sprunt (Davidson) defeated
Davis, time advantage 3:08.

145 pounds—Hiller (U. N. C.) defeated
Griffith with a crotch hold in 7:50.

155 pounds—Quarterman (Davidson) de-
feated Spell, time advantage 2:57.

165 pounds—Capt. Taylor (Davidson)
threw Pickett with scissors and wrist lock
in 4:28.

175 pounds—Potter (Davidson) defeated
Auman, time advantage 1:00.

Unlimited—Capt. Idol (U. N. C.) defeate

q

on this’ date, when Leslie Thompson will
be-the speaker and the Davidson Quartette
will prcbably furnish the special music.

The usual Sunday afternoon deputation
will go to the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. Harvey
Glass is to speak to the smaller boys at
his time.

WINGATE WINS
CAGE TOURNAMENT

(Continued from page 5)

SEMI-FINALS
B. Springs (29) Position (43) Wingate
Mauney (6) F. (6) Coble
Jolly (12) F. Smith
Leonard (10) C. (14) Harrington
Lonon (1) G. (6) Geddy
Brown G. Lane

Scoring substitutes—Wingate: York (17).

Position (37) B. Abbey
F, (10) Ware,
F, (10) Cantwell’

L.-McRae (28) +
Agle (4)
Williams (2)

Scoring substitutes—Weaver: Holcombe
(6);—Lees-McRae: Shoun (1).

Mars Hill (27) Position (39) B. Springs

Nettles (6) F, (10) Mauney
Fox (7) = F. (16) Jolley
Stroupe (1) C. (7) Leonard
Swann (6) G. (1) Lonon
Liester (2) G. (3) Camintz

Scoring substitutes—Mars Hill: Parham
(5); Boiling Springs: Wilson (2).

Rutherford (23). Position (37) B. Abbey

Deal (5) F. (7) Cantwell
Bronson (7) - F. (7) Ware.
Ridenhour (2) C. (8) Dengate
Pierce (6) G. (8) Feldman
Pierce (6) G. (7) Doris

Scoring substitutes—Rutherford: Sigmon
(3).

Officials for the tournament: Ison (North
Carolina), Touhey (Colorado), Mathis (Da-
vidson).

+
KS

ILLUSION:

Look at this remarkable lady ... with three lovely and
perfect heads... all attached to a normal body. She
appears to sit on the stage, with the lower part of her
body concealed by flowers. She can wink, smile, and

nod. She can talk, laugh, and sing—all at the same
time. Thousands of people have seen this feat of magic
and pronounced it a wonderful sight!

EXPLANATION ;
Audiences used to pay an extra fee to go behind the

scenes

to see how this trick was worked. They dis-

covered that the three-headed woman was merely a
reflection in a mirror. The glass showed the heads of
three girls but the body of only one. The other-two
were cleverly hidden so that only their heads showed
in the mirror.

SOuRCE: “‘Magic Stage Illusions and Scientific Diversions”

KEPT FRESH
IN THE WELDED
HUMIDOR PACK

by Albert A. Hopkins... Munn & Co., New York

RD

This ‘‘three-headed woman”’ trick goes
*way back to the early days of magic.
Also old is the suggestion that pro-
tection-for your throat and freedom from
coughing can be achieved through some ~

magic trick.

THE EXPLANATION: The easiest ciga-
rette on your throat is the cigarette that
is made from the choicest, ripe tobaccos.

Cheap, raw, tobaccos are, as you
would naturally expect, harsh to the

tm,

or the more expensive grades.

_

popular brand.

| les fun to be fooled __
...its more fun to KNOW

throat. Ripe, costly tobaccos are mild,
mellow—gentle. The question is whether
@ cigarette is made from cheap tobacco

It is @ fact, well known by
leaf tobacco experts, that
Camels are made from finer, MORE
EXPENSIVE tobaccos than any other

American men and women have smoked
more billions of Camels than any other

Won't you stack up your own

“cigarettes and your throat”?

flavor of Camels...inside.

brand because of the appeal of more ex-
pensive tobaccos and matchless blending.

experience

with a cigarette made from milder, cost-
lier tobaccos...against magic claims about

Try fresh Camels—in the air-tight,
welded Humidor Pack that seals the
freshness and coolness, the mildness and

me VO TRICKS
eoJSUST COSTLIIER

IN A MATCHLES

TOBACCOS

§ BLEND
