The Davidsonian

QAlendDa Lux Gbi Orta Libertas

Vol. XX

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 8, 1933

No. 21

Dr. Foster, Director of —
Pollack Foundation, Will
Talk Here Monday Night

Speaks on Some Pressing Social and
Economical Problems Which
World Confronts Today

IS WIDELY KNOWN AUTHOR

Will Address Classes in History and
Political Science

Dr. T. W. Foster, director of the Pollack
Foundation for Economic and Social Re-
search, will speak here at Chambers Audi-
torium Monday evening, March 13, on some
pressing social and economic problems
which the world confronts today.

Dr. Foster is an accomplished speaker,
and is an author of some note, having writ-
ten a book on “Debating and Public Speak-
ing,” which was used in Davidson College
as a textbook several years ago.

On Monday morning Dr. Foster will speak
tc the combined classes of Drs. Lingle and
McConnell and Professor Currie, in the
latter’s
some world problem. The students and pro-
fessors are invited to hear him.

Dr. Lingle, through whose efforts the
speaker is coming, has written the Cham-
bers of Commerce of neighboring towns
inviting all those interested in the prob-
lems of today to hear Dr. Foster. Dr.
Lingle, as a delegate to the annual meet-
ing of American and Political Science held
last April in Philadelphia, heard Dr. Fos-
ter speak at this convention, and he de-
clared that he made such an_ inspiring
speech that he was forced to acknowledge
applause several times.

-While here Dr. Foster will be the guest
of Dr. Lingle at his home. ‘

Donald H. Stewart
Speaks at Vespers

“Let No Man Despise Thy Youth” Is
Text Chosen

The vesper service Sunday night was un-
usually interesting and inspiring. The
speaker, Reverend Donald H. Stewart, a
very highly educated and widely traveled
young man, is pastor of the Oakland Pres-
byterian Church at Rock Hill, S. C. :

After the Bible reading, Ben Rose and
Charlie Moore led in prayer. Following this,
J. H. Ross rendered a violin solo, “Chan-
son Triste,’ accompanied at the piano by
Henry Hodgin. Reverend Stewart was then
introduced. - =

The subject of his talk, “When Youth
Goes Collegiate,” was very appropriate for
a college audience. The speaker chose his
text from I Timothy 4:12, “Let no man des-
pise thy youth; but be thou an example to
them that believe;-in work, in manner of
life, in love,’in faith, in purity.” This sen-
tence was a part of a letter written by
Paul to Timothy, who was then a young
man on the eve of going out into life as
his own master. Paul was warning him to
be an honest, upright, God-fearing man.
Mr. Stewart compared this spot in Tim-
othy’s life to the modern young man’s de-
parture for college. Here he gets out from
under the protective wings of his parents;
at first, he usually has very few friends to
warn and guide him. In other words, he is
suddenly thrown out into a new atmos-
phere to do exactly as he pleases; to sink
or swim; to work honestly and faithfully
and reap a good harvest or to spend his
time and money unwisely. ' Going further,
he said that college years were not only a
period to develop one’s mind but, much
more important, to develop good morals
and to submit one’s self to Jesus Christ.
This new world into which he suddenly
comes is full of temptations which he has
to combat. He should have the ideals of
Jesus Christ before him and constantly
strive toward His qualities.

“If the world is not to despise you, don’t
despise yourself.” This is the theme that
ran through Reverend Stewart’s talk. A
young man coming to college should re-
solve to lead a clean and honest life and
stick to this goal—‘“the coat of arms of God
and one’s family is too high and noble to
slur it.”

And lastly the speaker mentioned,, how

sad it is to see one destroying the strong, |

(Continued on page 3) |

T. J. Espinosa

classroom. He will probably discuss |-

Mr. Espinosa, a Senior in the Busi-
ness Administration College of the
University of Florida, is the other
member of the debating team: He is
secretary of the Debating Club and
also president of the Cosmopolitan
Club. This is Mr. Espinosa’s second
year of varsity debating.

Dramatic Club Bids
Six Talented Actors

Neophytes Presented Skits That Ex-
hibited Their Talent to Old
Members

Several campus Thespians were initiated
into the Red and Black Masquers, dramatic
group of the college. at a recent meeting.
Men honored for histrionic ability demon-

strated in various club productions were
N. A. Moss, of Kings Mountain, S. C.; D.

P. McLain, of Cleveland, Tenn.; G. R. Wood,
of Charleston, W. Va.; J. H. Simpson, of
Athens, Ga.; T. F. Wood, of Wilmington,
N. C., and W. L. MclIlwinen, of Fayetteville,

North Carolina.

In keeping with the club custom, the |
neophytes . presented: skits that
their talent. The first group of
Moss, Tom Wood, Gordon Wood, presented
a domestic comedy that would have done
credit to a New. York revue; the second
play, starring McLain, Simpson, and Mc-
Ilwinen, was also a very humorous farce
and was awarded a prize. These acts were
given on the stage in Shearer Hall, follow-

(Continued on page 3)

DELTA PI KAPPA HOLDS
JOURNALISTIC CONTEST

Delta Pi Kappa, local honorary journal-
istic fraternity, announces a contest_in_edi-
torial writing. All Sophomores and Fresh-
men and all Juniors and Seniors not con-
nected with the editorial staff of any of
the three publications are invited to take
part in this competition.

The winner of this contest, as a prize,
will be given a membership in Delta Pi
Kappa. The president. of Delta Pi Kappa,
John Lake, announces that they intend to
petition Pi Delta Epsilon, national honorary
journalistic fraternity, in the near future.

The contest opens Wednesday, March 8,
and closes at 12 o’clock Saturday night,
March 25. All editorials must be handed in
to John Lake at 105 Watts or to the editor
of The Davidsonian by that time.

The editorials may be of any length. Any
subject may be treated, but the editorials
must contain no direct personal criticisms
or unbecoming language. They must be
typewritten, double-spaced. No name must
appear on the sheets containing the.article,
but the writer will put his name on an out-
side sheet, clipped to the editorial.

The papers will be graded by E. O. Guer-
rant, W C. Thompson, and J. E. Lake. The
Davidsonian reserves the right to publish
any or all of the editorials submitted.

All muerte interested in journalism are
encouraged to enter their articles in this
contest. It is believed that a contest of this
nature will stimulate interest and be good
experience for those taking part.

exhibited |
Nicholas:

Davidson-Florida Debate
Will Be Held Here Next
Saturday Night at 7:15

“Skip” Brown and Rawling Pratt-
Thomas Will Uphold Negative
Side of Question

DEBATING TEAMS ACTIVE

2atterson and Espinosa, Excellent
Speakers, Will Support

Affirmative

Davidson, represented by Gordon Brown
and Rawling Pratt-Thomas, will debate the
University of Florida in Chambers Audi-
torium next Saturday night at 7:15 o'clock.

the question, Resolved:. That the United
States should cancel the war debts which
Europe owes her. All who heard thé debates
against Emory College are familiar with
the declaiming merits of Brown. However,
|this will be Pratt-Thomas’ initial debate.

The affirmative will be upheld by’ two
| very able men, J. ‘B. Patterson and-F. J.
Espinosa. The former is a Senior in the
Arts and Science College. Although this is
his first year of intercollegiate debating,
he was winner of both Freshman and Soph-
omore declamation medals. He recently took
part in the debate with the University of
Dublin from Ireland. The latter is a Senior
in the Business Administration College. This
is his second year on the varsity debating
team, and he is secretary of the Debate
Club. He was selected as the student body
delegate to the student convention to—be
held in Miami, Florida.

A delegation from Central High in Char-
lotte will be present to hear the debates.

Last Saturday, Davidson, represented by
|Bob Smith and Leland McKeithan, debated
the College of Charleston, but the results
have not been heard. Tonight, the 8th, they

(Continued on page 4)

Interesting Talk on
Jehol Given atI.R.C.'

|Paul Porter to Spent at Some Later,
Date on Technocracy

At the meeting of the International Re-
lations Club, held last Thursday night, Dr.
T. W. Lingle, professor of history at David-

the aggressors around the province of Jehol.
Dr.
esting way, bringing in points of interest
from the time of the first troubles to those
of the present day.

At the close of the address important |
business was discussed. The club is making |
tentative plans to bring several speakers
here during the year. The most outstand-
ing one being Paul Porter, field secretary
for the League of Industrial Democracy.
Mr. Porter has traveled extensively, and is
an_interesting and versatile speaker. His
talk will probably deal with the current
question of Technocracy. The date of his ap-
pearance will be announced later, as no con-
clusive plans have been made.

Several members of the I. R. C. are mak-
ing studies of the war in the Far East, un-
employment, and other problems which are |
confronting the world at present. .At the |
next meeting some of those making studies
of these topics will probably make their re- |

freshments were served.

New Men Initiated

Delta Pi Kappa, honorary journal-
istic fraternity, initiated fifteen new
members Wednesday night. These
new members are Lyman Clardy,
Jack Williams, Alex Schenck, W. M.
and W. T. Thompson, Jim White, Lyne
Gamble, Jack Goodykoontz, Mack
Manson, W. C. Thompson, Reeves
Pope, Woodrow Calligan, Bill Ward,
Allen Mebane, and Bob Glasgow.

After the initiation some business
was brought up in which the possibil-
ity of getting a course in Journalism
was discussed. Also it was decided to
petition Delta Pi Epsilon for a char-
ter. The next meeting is to be held
Wednesday night.

The former will take the negative side of |

|son, gave an interesting talk on the Sino-
Japanese controversy, and the operations of |

Lingle treated-the subject in an inter- |

ports. At the conclusion of the meeting, re- |

Ji B. Patterson

Mr. J. B. Patterson, who will repre-
sent the University of Florida in the
debate to be held here March 11, is en-
tering his first year of varsity debat-
ing, He has been the winner of both
the Freshman and Sophomore declama-
tion medals.

Sigma Delta Pi Ini-
tiates Seven Members

Men Honored Were Williams, Casali,
Smyre, Reid, Johnson, Hum-
phreys and Woodside

In a beautiful and impressive candle-light
ceremony led by its president, Frank Bix-
ller, Sigma Delta Pi greeted seven new ini-
| tiates to its rolls last Wednesday. The ones

_| who received this honor were Jack Williams, |

Odi Casali, Fred Smyre, Bill Reid, Hugh
| Johnson, Ed Humphreys, and. Bob Wood-
Side.

| It might be well to remark in passing
that, Sigma Delta Pi is the national Span-
ish fraternity, to which members of the
Junior Spanish Society are admitted when
‘they complete their Junior year. Its pur-
lpose is to get the stutlents interested in
| Spanish literature and language.

The initiation was held in the club room
in Shearer Hall on March 1, and was at-
| tended by the faculty members, Professors
Goldiere and Fleagle. The ceremony was
| followed by a reception, at which time de-
| licious refreshments were served.

(Continued on page 3)

DR. F. W. SHEPARDSON
VISITS BETA THETA PI

Davidson
Dr._Francis-W.-Shepardson,-national_presi-
dent of the fraternity, as its guest Satur-
day. The occasion was the initiation cere-
mony. Dr. Shepardson came to Davidson
from Duke, where he attended a conven-
{tion of Omicron Delta Kappa.

Besides being national president of Beta
| Thetn Pi, Dr. Shepardson is also president
of the Association of College Honor So-
| cities, president of the College Fraternity
Eiditcrs
the avienal Interfraternity Conference, and
Phi Beta Kappa.
| While at Davidson Dr. Shepardson was a
| guest in the home of Dr. Walter L. Lingle.
|The program Saturday was: 4:30, Alumni

| Meeting; 6:30, Banquet; 8:30, Formal Ini- |
ltiation; and at 10:30, a fellowship session |

of alumni, initiates, and members of the
|active chapter.

| Alumni present were: Walter L. Lingle,
| Davidson; R. H. Frazier, Greensboro, N.
|C.; J. S. Causey, Greensboro, N. C.; F. H. |
hGnambenlatn) Jr., Lincolnton, N. C.; C. W.}
Gilchrist, Charlotte, N. C.; J. A. Winn, |
Greenville, S. C.; W. H. B. Shaye, Green- |

DuBose, (Camden, S. C.; W. F. Hall,
Statesville, N. C.; Ed Fewell, Jr.,
S. C.; A. T. Edelman, Statesville, N. C.;

H. T. MeMillan, Charlotte, N. C.; J. H. ate
Clintock, Charlotte, N. C.; G. W. Vick, Jen-
/kinjones, W. Va., and John I. Smith, Green-

ville, S. C.

Chapter of Beta Theta Pi had |

Association, and past-president of

| | Junior Class Announces

| Date of Junior Speaking
Postponed Until 17- is

| ;

| Plan to Combine With Senior Class in

| Presenting Unusual Week-end
Attractions

DANCE PLANS UNALTERED
aoe, os
|Elaborate Arrangements Made for
Figure for Saturday Night
| Dance
| It was announced today that the Junior
Speaking house party has been postponed
until March 17 and A8. The Junior class
and the Senior class have attempted to -com-
bine their week-end entertainments into one
group, to be held-on the above dates. The
Juniors will carry out their plans as orig-
inally proposed, however, regardless of the
results of the proposed merger with the
| Seniors. If the two classes agree on a com-
| bined week-end, the Seniors will present
| Lneir part of the entertainment on the cam-
| pus, while the Juniors will give the dances
jin Charlotte, according to plans which have
| already been announced to the student body.

As previously announced, the house party
| will be featured by three dances: a formal
| dance on. Friday night, from 10 until 2; a
| tea dance on Saturday afternoon, from 4:30
| until 6:30, and an informal dance on Satur-
| day night, from 9 until 12. The price of
admission to the entire set of dances will
be $3.00. i

All three dances will be held in the Hotel
Charlotte ballroom. The music will be fur-
nished by Reeves Pope and his Southern-
aires, an orchestra surpassed by few which
have played for Davidson dances. The
Southernaires have arranged several nov-
elty numbers which promise to add greatly

(Continued on page 4)

Students Addressed} |
By Dr. Higgenbottom

Noted Missionary Discusses Results
of Welfare Work in India

Dr. Samuel Higginbottom, of Allahabad,
India, anoks to the student body in chapel
Saturday, discussing his work in India and
the general situation which exists there:
Dr. Higginbottom, a graduate of Princeton
University, went to the Indian mission field
in 1908.

He has become well known for his agri-
cultural work in teaching the Indians how
to raise enough food to feed the popula-
tion, and at present he conducts a school
of agriculture in Allahabad. He has been
decorated by the British government for his
work,

Dr. Higginbottom described how he went
to India as a young college graduate, and
was assigned to teach economics, a subject
which he had not. studied to any extent.
But it was in search of examples to show
his class that he visited some of the In-
dian villages, and saw there the appalling
poverty of the natives. He conceived the
idea then of showing them how to raise
}enough food for the support of the popu-
|lation, and although discouraged by his fel-.
lows, he kept that idea. Finally “after five
and a half years of arguing,” he was al-
| lowed to return to the United States to
study agriculture, but on his own financial
[responsibility Encouraged by his wife, he
lentered Ohio State University in 1909 and
| was graduated in 1911. He returned to India
| with sufficient capital to start his school,
|and started adapting his knowledge to the
| conditions in India.

Adventures with the weeds, the heat, and
| the general difficulty of starting his experi-
| ments were interestingly and amusingly de-
scribed by Dr. Higginbottom, who said that
when the temperature in Allahabad reached
120 degrees, they began to consider it hot.

He went on to say that when he found
| how to grow crops in India he had only be-

| gun, for then he had to conquer the native
ville, S. C.; W. C. Knight, Greensboro, N.| ideas and superstition, such as the venera-
C.; E. P. Nisbet, Charlotte, N. C.; E. Z.| tion of the cow, and the idea of transmigra-
Jr., | tion. He showed the fallacy of the former
Rock Hill, | by proving the cost to the natives of their

worship of the cow. The latter he finds more
difficult, for the Hindus have as a part of
their religion the idea that each animal con-
tains a soul, and consequently they will not
kill them.
