THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 13, 1933

Chemistry Meet

DAVIDSON’S LATEST PHI BETA KAPPA MEMBERS

Held In Florida

Prof. Thies Honored by Gamma
Sigma Epsilon

The Beta Alpha Chapter of Gamma
Sigma Epsilon, national honorary
chemistry fraternity, sponsored the
first national conclave of that fra-
ternity ever held in Florida on No-
vember 27. Delegates from fourteen
chapters were represented at the
meeting on the campus of the Univer-
sity of Florida.

At this convention national officers
of the fraternity for the coming year
were elected. They were as follows:
Dr. A. P. Black, University of Florida,
Grand Alchemist; Dr. J. P. Montgom-| 4
ery, University of Alabama, Grand Re- ;
corder; Professor J. S. Pearce, George-
town College, Grand Visor, and Pro-
fessor O. J. Thies, Davidson College,
Keeper of the Kult.

Professor Thies had the honor of be-
ing the-only man to be re-elected to
the same position this year. The
Keeper of the Kult has to look after
the ritual of the fraternity and to pub-
lish the directory,

A large banquet was held in honor
of the visitors in one of the leading
hotels on the night of November 28.
The menus were printed on sheets of
filter paper and were decorated with
small strips of litmus paper.

Professor Thies and Rufus Morrow
represented the Davidson Chapter at

(Courtesy Charlotte Observer)

not appear in the picture.

Six seniors and seven alumni were initiated into Davidson's Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa last Thursday night. Shown left to right, they are: Front
row: Odi Casali, Welch, W. Va.; J. T. Blair, Albemarle; W. T. Thompson and W. M. Thompson, Richmond, Va.; J. A. McGeachy, Fayetteville, and
J. E. Dill, Buchanan, Va., all seniors. Back row: C. B. Bailey, '14, Charlottesville, Va.; S. T. Henderson, '17, and Neal Y. Pharr, '19, Charlotte; W. G.
Humphrey, '18, Greenwood, Miss.; J. M. McBryde, '16, Fort Defiance, Va., and E. G, Lilly, '19, Birmingham, Ala.

Emory Flinn of New York does

th vention. {
ie convention talks were given by members of the

organization, Bill Bogart speaking on
“The Relation of the to the
Weather,” and J. E. Dill concerning
the radio.

Sigma Pi Sigma Held
Meeting Last Monday

Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary physics
fraternity, held Nts regular meeting
last Monday evening at 7 o'clock. Two

Sun

Professor Mebane of the Mathe-

matics Department gave a lecture on
current topics relating to physics.

The meeting, which marked the an-
niversary of the society, was then open
for discussion, at which time plans for
securing a speaker for an open meet-

ing in the near future were discussed.

Brown and Smyre Talk
At I. R. C. Convention

Davidson was represented by G. H.
Brown and F. L. Smyre at the model
of League of Nations Assembly of the
International Relations Club held at

Winthrop College Friday and Saturday
of last week. This convention met at
Winthrop for its fifth year. Each
country that is in the real league was
represented by at least three college
students.

The colleges represented were those

scattered throughout North and South
Carolina. The International Relations
Club of Winthrop sponsored the as-
sembly. Brown spoke condemning the
actions of the German government.

Smyre, representing China, ad-
dressed the assembly which was con-
sidering the subject of disarmament
and Japan on “China-Japan Rela-
tions.”

Entire Davidson Band
Broadcasts Over WBT

The complete Davidson College Con-
cert Band broadcast over WBT, Char-
lotte, last Wednesday evening. The
program consisted of five selections by
the band, and a plea was made for
money with which to buy proper band
uniforms for that organization.

The program was as follows: “O
Davidson” was played at the beginning
and ending of the broadcast; M. Cun-
ningham, accompanied by the band,
did a trumpet solo, “ Jupiter,” by Gold-
man; selections from Sullivan’s “ Pina-
fore” were played by the entire band,
and the group rendered Sousa’s “ Stars
and Stripes Forever” in a special ar-
rangement.

The program scheduled for this eve-
ning has not been planned as yet, but
it will carry out a Christmas theme.

QUARTET ENTERTAINS

The Davidson College Quartet, com-
posed of D, P. McLain, F. Hubert
Morris, J. A. C. Robinson, and Frank
Tucker, accompanied by Prof. J. C.
Pfohl, sang at the: Ladies’ Night Ban-
quet given by the High Point Kiwanis
Club in the Sheraton Hotel of that
city, Friday night.

Monday evening, this group enter-
tained the Parent-Teachers Association
at Steele Creek.

DO seus PACKED |

Cigarettes

Copyright, 1933, The
American Tobacco
Company.

ALWAYS the finest tobaccos

No Loose Ends

a

WHY LUCKIES ARE SO MILD, SO SMOOTH

Open a pack of Luckies and lay the
20 cigarettes side by side. You can’t
tell one from another. Every Lucky is
round, firm and fully packed—with
choice Turkish and domestic tobaccos.

ALWAYS the finest workmanship

Aways Luckies please!

i]

And every Lucky is free from annoy-
ing loose ends. The tips are clean-cut
—the tobacco doesn’t spill out. That’s
why Luckies draw easily, burn evenly
—and are always mild and smooth.

“it's.toasted ” FOR THROAT PROTECTION—FOR BETTER TASTE
