THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 25, 1933

The MDavidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

Member of

Associated, Golleginte Press
=o

“2 1933 Ganomr covenact) 1934 =

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
STANDARD .PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: Ten $2.00 the Col-

legiate year.

cents, per’ copy;

Entered ane ‘second-class matter at the Post Office au jp saiby)
North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1

Articles for publication mustgbe in the hands of LLY Gti) 7: Editors
by 4:00 o'clock p. m., fond day. Letters to the itor are
welcome, but all communications intended for publication
must be signed.

ODI CASAL 8 -<-----s Editor

Wier. VOHNSOS Business Manager

(As) EDITORIAL STAFF

GULLETT Riss: cocsscecivgscucnessesncessosanes Managing Editor

-Managing Editor
-Managing Editor
-Managing Editor

Alumni Editor
-Sports Editor
Sditorial Writer
xchange Editor
feature Editor

McPHAIL-

-Feature Editor
-Feature Editor
----Review Editor

Associate Editor

\ Xce WIL . i AMS, Nik os -Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
istant
tant
ssistant
Assistant

Business Manager
Business Manager
Business Manager
Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1933

Manhood, not scholarship, is the first aim of edu-

cation, —Ernest Thompson Seton.

RETROSPECTION

The time has come and gone when old ac-
quaintances are rénewed; when the lukewarm
blood of old alumni courses through. their veins
with the revived heat of football battle; when
the color and clamor of the crowd rejuvenates
those loyal supporters into a state of holiday fes-
tivity; when deep and tender sentiment is
aroused as priceless memories soothe and clear
the minds of harried business men; when stu-
dents celebrate with comely belles and sparkling

social functions:
Home-Coming! An event which embodies all
those inherent characteristics of a home and

one’s return thereto, A return to the home of
intellectual achievement, to familiar and ever-
remebered haunts and scenes, to the place where
undying friendships were born and nurtured, to
those days which were probably the: happiest
that we ever spent. Home-Coming, a word whose
connotation is metamorphosed into an actuality
when this annual occasion is observed. As long
as we commemorate this event with our usual
appropriate exercises no requiem will be sounded
for those memories that are with us always, but
which have to be freshened and regenerated_if
they are to retain possession of their fullness of
meaning.

The Home-Coming just gone was certainly a

decided success. We find many incidents linger-
ing with us which will remain until we return as
alumni some time in the distant future. Some
of them are these: The crowd of 10,000, the larg-
est that we have ever witnessed at Home-Com-
ing or any other game here... the scarcity of
girl’s tickets and the resulting troubled stu-
dents ... we feel that it is indeed unfortunate
that this situation has to exist at certain games,
after all the students make the school and should
be given every consideration . Frosh Band-
master Dick Brock was quite spectacular in his
direction of the band and the band is to be com-
mended for its mucic, marching, and formation
of letters . ... Congratulations, Mr. Pfohl.
We admire Shrimp Morris . . . his telegraphic
message to Captain Rives is characteristic of
the man... we wonder how much the Duke line
outweighed Davidson’s ... Julian West’s injury
was the cause of grave concern ... we hope his
recovery will be speedy and complete . . . David-
son lost five yards on penalties and Duke lost
seventy--a team like the Blue Devils can afford
such losses ... . Laney, Crawford, and Cornelius
-were Devil stars in our estimation .. . Johnny
Mackorell scintillated for the Wildcats ... the
brilliant performance of any star is made pos-
sible only with the full co-operation of his team-
mates Davidson’s touchdown came as the
result of several perfect plays’... the crowd of
girls, relatives, and alumni that swarmed down
upon fraternity court at the conclusion of the
football tiff was marvelous to behold . the
packed ballroom at the Charlotte Hotel striking-
ly showed the festive mood that took possession
of-us-all.

These are just a few of the impressions that
have remained with us. Whatever we may have
seen and still remember, it is without a doubt
the general consensus of opinion that Home-
Coming again achieved complete success as it
has done since its establishment many years ago.

—R. P. T.

THE COURT IN ACTION

When James Halverstadt had several fresh-
men to stand up in a student body assembly
Monday morning and pronounced upon them a
campus restriction penalty, he showed that the
Court of Control, over which body he presides
as judge, is very active in exercising its unpleas-
and duties of preventing laxity on the part of
first-year men in observing their regulations.

Halverstadt pointed out that he did not make
the freshmen stand because he wanted to humili-
ate them, but rather to impress upon them that
they are expected to meet certain requirements.
He also revealed that the court was willing to
investigate all matters, if the student body would
co-operate with them.

DUKE TOOK IT EASY

The Charlotte News did its circulation at Da-
vidson no good when it included in comment of
the Duke-Davidson game the phrase that Coach
Wallace Wade “did not care about piling up a

huge score” over the Wildcats. There is no
reason to believe that Duke wouldn't try to
beat the Davidson team by as large a score as

possible. If those Blue Devils were not trying
to crush the Wildcats by a huge score, explain
why they sent Davidson players out
of the game with injuries?

so many

Wade's team was lucky to get away with a
19-7 victory despité.the fact that they gained
much yardage from scrimmage than did
the

more
le seers.

MADE IT LOOK SERIOUS

The “News” also tried to capitalize upon the
injury Julian West, Davidson student body’s
president and second-string center, who was car-
ried off the field Saturday in an unconscious
state. As a circulation scheme the Charlotte
paper streamed its front page with the words,
“Davidson Grid Star Near Death of Injuries Re-
ceived in Game,” but.in its account of the con-
dition of West it went on to mention that the
Davidson student leader was resting comfort-
ably.

of

Davidson students who were in Charlotte Sat-
urday night were terrified at the erroneous
headline, when. actually there was no need to
worry because West had regained consciousness
early in the night.

TAR HEELS WANT RECOGNITION

The following editorial was clipped from a re-
cent issue of “The Daily Tar Heel,” student pub-
lication at the University of North Carolina, and
expresses what should be considered a narrow-
minded opinion of some writer:

“The criticism has been made recently that
even if our football team should go through an
undefeated season, it Would receive no consid-
eration for national championship, or Rose Bowl
invitation, because it does not play teams repre-

sentative,°or of the calibre of the best in the
country,
“Georgia Tech and Vanderbilt are the only

two teams on our schedule worthy of national
consideration. Georgia, State, and Duke, while
in repute in the South, extend their domain no
further, and can give no honor, nationally, to
the team that defeats them. Florida, Wake For-
est, and Davidson are well and good for opening
games, or rest periods, but not for football
games. Would it not be better if our schedule
ran more like this: Wake Forest, Georgia, Van=
derbilt, State, Navy, Georgia Tech, Columbia,
Davidson, Duke, and Virginia?

“Here, some will-say that since we cannot pre-
sent a creditable showing in our present sched-
ule, how could we hope to win against teams of
the calibre mentioned ?

“The answer rests in the fact that such games
would help to make us known in the North,
where the University of North Carolina football
team is unheard of. It would give us national
recognition, which our 1929 record did not do
successfully because of the fact that we played
only relatively poor teams. And is that recogni-
tion, aside from subsidation, not the best way
to attract students, and thereby football players?

“That schedule would be only a step in the
right direction. -With these added games, we
might be able to put ourselves athletically in the
same position as we have held scholastically for
so many years.”

What we wonder is how Carolina hopes to
gain recognition even in the South, much less
nationally, if the team they put upon the field
can do not better than: take a tumble to the
tune of a 30-0 score before Georgia, which school,
“while of repute in the South, can give no honor
nationally to the team that defeats them”; lose
9 to 0 to Florida and barely win by one touch-
down over Davidson, which schools ‘ ‘are well

and good for opening games, or rest periods, but

not for football games.”

It looks to us that the little recognized schools
are playing Carolina’s “best team since 1929” for
rest period games..

NEWS DIGEST

WAR PREPARATIONS
Twenty-five millions of dollars has
recently been allotted for national de-

fense, the majority of which will go
toward the strengthening of the air
forces. The Army and Navy. will get

four hundred new planes. Also many
new federal projects were listed and a
new $10,000,000 army motorization pro-
gram. This expenditure will go a long
way towards meeting the insistent de-
mands of both Army and Navy in re-
gards to unpreparedness.

JAPANESE

The Japanese land, and air
forces are to make a war display for
the benefit of Russia with Emperor
Hirohito taking personal charge of the
maneuvers. The annual maneuvers are
to be conducted on the shores of the
Japan Sea, the section of homeland
closest to Russia in Asia. This loca-
tion is near Vladivostok and would
probably be where the Russians would
land in case of a Russo-Japanese war.

naval,

LIQUOR TAX

government is expecting to
“killing” out of- repeal in the
form. of a high liquor tax. They hope
to secure '$500,000,000 by this tax. The
administration is drafting a
neweprogram with a proposed levy of
$2.60 per gallon, This income would
be offset by the automatic
reduction of $227,000,000 in special
taxes during prohibition. The import
problem is perhaps the hardest one to
deal with and the government has de-

The
make a

already

however

cided to refuse permits for importa-
tion,
: TRADE
An official survey by the British

Board of Trade shows that Japan led
all nations in increase of trade for the
first six months of 1933. The survey
gave statistics showing that Japan’s
exports increased at the amazing rate
of 55.3 per cent over the first six
months of 1932,

FRANCE HITS BACK

Premier Edouard Daladier, in the
tense atmosphere of the opening ses-
sion of the house of deputies, took up
the gauntlet of Germany and flung
back a reply demanding that an ar-
swer be given for Germany's action in
leaving the arms parley and the League
of Nations. He challenged Germany
to return to the arms council by say-
ing, “ France will be in Geneva October
26 when arms negotiators reassemble.”

BAN POLITICAL GROUPS

The Czechoslovakian government has
issued an edict which authorizes the
dissolution of all political parties organ-
ized or directed against the govern-
ment or its policies. This law is aimed
chiefly at the German national Social-
ist and National groups which have
heretofore been very disturbing in
Praha, capital of Czechoslovakia.

RUSSIAN RECOGNITION

The question of Russian recognition
and the enlargement Of trade relation-
ships with Russia draws near. The
time has come for a decision and this
has already been considered at a cab-
inet meeting, but officials are reticent
as to what was done. Recognition de-
pends upon several factors involving
an agreement with Russia.

AUSTRIA

The tense German-Austrian situation
became still tenser as the result of a
fight between six Nazis armed with
revolvers and some volunteer Austrian
troops who were stationed near the
German border. One Austrian soldier
and also one Nazi were wounded in
the exchange of fire.

CUBA

A new crisis has arisen in Cuba. As
the militant and numerically strong
ABC radical secret society, one of the
chief supporting factors of the Grau
San Martin government, announces
that it is destroying its support from
the present leaders. This action caused
the belief to spread that a new crisis
was facing the government that re-
cently succeeded that of De Cespedes,
but what the outcome will be remains
to be seen.

SIAM

The revolt in Siam and the chism
in the royal family is becoming more
and more bloody. Aerial battles are
marking the war while up-country
rebel, troops and loyal forces clashed
in severe fighting which saw many
killed on both sides, The fight for
government supremacy has become
largely a matter of control in the air.
Trade has fallen off considerably. For-
eign legations are watching develop-
ments closely-~-Popular sentiment is
swinging toward the rebels who seek

to oust the present communistically- |

inclined government but

against the king.

are not

Duke

Fraternity Spirit
Is Believed Dying

“Fraternal spirit is not as strong as
it formerly was, and consequently there
are fewer students interested in fra-
ternities,” said Dr. Francis W. Shep-
ardson, pre-eminent in the fraternity
field, when he visited Miami Univer-
sity, the birthplace of nine Greek let-
ter social groups which later became
national.

He felt that a broader loyalty to
school and community had removed
the inlooking attitude of chapters.

On Other Campuses

EMORY

Emory University has changed its
idea about a freshman being green!
That is, they have formed a decided
opinion otherwise, since a certain fresh-
man penetrated the hitherto unex-
plored interior of the Nurses’ Home.
It seems like a confused freshman
spent twenty minutes therein search-
ing vainly for his class in history. After
time, he found his way to the
Educational Building, a wiser boy, and
much richer in experience.

some

NEWCOMB

Page Mae West! We thought that
the Mae West figure was the national
rage at present, but apparently the
girls at Newcomb think otherwise. It
scems like a cigarette before meals and
green vegetables keep the Louisianians
from acquiring excessive avoirdupois!

LOUISIANA

Plans are being made at Louisiana
State University for the formation of
local fraternity chapters on the campus
to the number of thirty. The eighteen
social fraternities at L. S. U. include
about 20 per cent of the male student
body, and the new movement has been
instituted to raise the membership to
about 40 per cent, which is normal for
state universities.

DUKE

Unprecedented in the history of
University was the display of
spirit and enthusiasm aroused by the
students over the Tennessee game.
Novel as it was, the effects produced
were enlightening. It proved that
Duke stu@@nts were capable of things
which were considered impossible for
them.

WASHINGTON AND LEE

There has been a regular ole “ whoop
it up” war going on between the dry
cleaners of Lexington and students of
Washington and Lee. Seems as though
the cleaners have raised their prices
and the students “can’t take it.” The
following extract from the college
paper will show partly the attitudes
taken: “In last Tuesday’s issue of ‘The
Ring-tum Phi’ we served notice on you
that unless you could justify your price
increase within three days, court action
would be taken. Your arguments
Wednesday night have failed to prove
to us that the enromous increase was
necessary. Therefore, unless the de-
sired adjustments are made by twelve
noon tomorrow, the entire case will
be handed over to the proper authori-
ties at that time.”—(Editor—Ring-tum
Phi). The above was addressed to the
cleaners and pressers of Lexington, Va.

“SOUTHWESTERN

We have often heard of things go-
ing from the ridiculous to the sublime
and vice-versa, but a new standard has
been set on the Southwestern campus,
when a certain co-ed went into the
dean’s office and borrowed a nickel to
make a phone call and then asked the
secretary in charge if she would kindly
add the loan to her tuition fee. This
same co-ed also wondered if an ounce
of convention was not worth a pound
of lure???

From the Background

dear editor. dr. jock hood was quite
surprised wednesday morning when he
walked into the auditorium and saw
a banner with the words quotation
marks beat those blue devils quotation
marks written thereon. the psychology
prof felt better about the matter when
he considered that maybe in chapel
was the best place to down devils after
all.

the letter between the a and d on this
typewriter ha ju t gone bad and i gue
the only remedy for it i to u e another
machine in tead of going ahead with
thi one.

somebody must have told captain
charlie rives about crooning halfbacks
and now ‘he is trying to be a moaning
coma yodeling coma groaning hum-
ming coma or what have you guard.
he practices daily in the gym shower
room,

they usually tell it on professors when
.they speak of absent-mindedness, but
dunlap covington qualified for the vul-
nerables the other day when he went
to dinner at hallums. sitting down at
the table he spied a bowl in front of
him. in went a few crackers which he
crumbled and a spoon carried some of
the food to his mouth before he found
out it was gravy.

i slipped off to charlotte to the shindig
last saturday night and happened to
be around the charlotte hotel when
joe drake buck kirkland and john hun-
ter were in a most embarrassing posi-
tion. were their faces red question
mark. if’ youre inquisitive you might
ask them about a certain situation:

al stevens was in a sweat the other
night when he got word from his girl
in schenectady new york that -she
would be down on his bid for home-
coming. stevens to be nice to his girl
had asked her down but actually did
not expect her to accept it seems.

robert e. lee jr. a descendant of the
famous southern general plays half-
back for mercer university of. macon
georgia and due to his exploits on the
gridiron against both army and navy
he is being mentioned as possible tim-
ber for all american honors when the
naming time rolls around again.

| .

Fussell garner of macon missouri has
a hitch hiking plan which gets him
places and at the same time keeps his ;
thumb from getting sore. he carries a
red can on which is written the words
quotation marks gasoline quotation
marks, take heed davidsonians.

tee thompson is still wondering how
he got white dust in his hair in the
middle of psychology class the other
day.

saw many of my old friends back for
homecoming and got a kick out of
hearing so many quotation marks glad
to see you quotation marks uttered.

the freshman who got up in chapel to
announce the sale of several girls’ tick-
ets which he had bought for the duke
game sure got the razz at first but the
razz turned to rush as soon as the
student body was dismissed,

my personal nomination for the most
loyal davidson follower is dr. burwell
the gray haired man who can be seen
at all y vesper services all church
services and at all wildcat athletic af-

fairs. rs

dr. oren moore popular charlotte doc-
tor who can always be pointed out to
freshmen as the man with the carna-
tion in his left lapel is without a doubt
the most loyal wildcat football follower
and lawrence wilkenson who is always
seen with dr. moore is in my opinion
next,

if our boys put up as gallant a fight
against state this saturday as they did
against duke it is going to be just too
bad for the wolfpack.

randy.

Py Acc

STATIONERY

Printing of all Types

CALLING CARDS

FRATERNITY PAPERS

PROGRAMS

at Reasonable Rates

See BILL JOHNSON

203 Watts

@ Garland Court -

Standard Printing Company

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

