THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 1, 1933

Colorful Colorado

By JACK WiLLIAMS, Jr.

(NOTE: The article appearing last
time marked the close of “Trekking
West.” However, feature articles will be
written about other interesting places
visited, from time to time.)

Californians are the, most modest people
on earth when it comes to telling about their
state. They never praise it because they hate
publicity and if a person chanced to repeat
td they “said it -woéuld—embarrass—_them
greatly. However, in spite of this I am going
tc describe the trip to Lake Tahoe because
this spot was most impressive to me.

After spending the night at the Parkway
Hotel in Reno we departed the next morn-
ing for.Carson City. Reno was the most
prosperous looking place visited on the tour
and is known as “The Biggest Little City
in the World.”

Swinging through a great ravine out from
Carson City, we saw Lake Tahoe embedded
like a jewel between two great ranges of
the Sierra Nevadas. This lake snuggled
away in the mountains is so blue that one
is tempted to dip a pen in it and its waters
are pure enough to be used in car batteries.

BEAUTIFUL LAKE TAHOE

The colorings of the water are extraordi-
nary. From a pale green at the shore line
they blend into a brilliant hue and in the
distance become a royal purple. We drove
along the shore of the lake for fifteen miles
and stopped at Globins resort to take some
pictures. There we met several teachers from
the Science Department of the Syracuse,
New York, School, who told us some inter-
esting facts about the lake. There is only
one lake in the world above its altitude that
is larger.

Before leaving the southern end of the
lake for the open country, we passed hun-
dreds of beautiful summer homes, travel-
ing on a highway that sometimes over-
looked the lake from panoramic heights,
other times at the lake level, and often
passed through wondrous stretches of for-
est.

THE ROYAL GORGE

Another interesting place is the Royal
Gorge of Colorado. A description of the
West would not be complete without men-
tioning this great attraction. Here the
world’s highest bridge spans the grand can-
yon of the Arkansas River. It is suspended
1,053 feet above the rushing river and is
“Dedicated to Those Whose Hearts Beat to
the Grandeur of Nature.”

This giant crevice fills one with fear, with
delight, with reverence and meditation.
Clouds come to rest on the snow-capped
mountains surrounding it and one looks
down, down, and down into the giant chasm
where the water rushes below. It defies de-
scription with its grandeur and majesty.

One becomes lost in thought while admir-
ing this spectacle for it is said to be. the
grandest thing in Colorado. The magnificent
mountains, dark woods, and the awfulness
of the gorge recall the passage from Dantes
Inferno:

“There is a place within the depths of hell

Called Malebolge, all rock, dark stained,
With hue ferruginous, e’en as the steep
That round it circling winds.

Right in the midst of that abominable re-

gion yawns

A spacious gulf profound.”

Next we “Sagebrushers” had dinner and
then followed the Gunnison route via Mon-
arch Pass. For a thrill, drive a car 1,200
feet in the air on a narrow Colorado moun-
tain road! Mountains! Colorado! Colorado!
Mountains! How well the two go together.

OUT OF THE PAST

La Veta Hotel in Gunnison where we
stopped was a good example of a hotel
built during the days of the gold rush. It
“was an old building but it looked as if it had
seen better days and I know if it could talk
it would have some interesting things to tell.

The place used to be a thriving center,
but now it is a ghost town. Many of the
houses were empty and most of the build-
ings had not seen paint for 30 years. The
lobby which used to be a scene of bustle
and confusion is now dark and gloomy and
gas lights spurt from its handsomely carved
panels and throw strange and fantastic fig-
ures on the bleak walls.

The rooms were large and frightfully
bare. The bed was of solid mahogany as
were all the furnishings, and the heavy can-
opy over our heads was covered with fine
but faded drapes. I rather enjoyed it, but
Daddy said the place depressed him and the
next morning was glad to leave. “I felt like
I was going to have an attack of appendi-
citis in that place any minute,” he declared.

He leaned out to explain to every hitch-
hiker we passed after leaving Georgia that
we were loaded, but had to: give! it up as
a hopeless job when we neared Los Angeles.

Daddy had his watch set Waycross time
and in the mornings while driving over the
desert would say, “Get up, Jack, it’s six
o'clock.” I would manage to dress and then
find out. it was only four o'clock by my

watch. However, this was necessary because
‘on the desert the héat is so intense it is best
to travel in the early morning and at night,
for a rest period has to be called in the
middle of the day.

Many amusing things happened. One day
a well-dressed lady standing in front of us
at a Los Angeles cafeteria asked for milk.
The waitress questioned, “plain or pasteur-
ized?” The other replied, “I want cow’s
milk” The waitress was a regular Zazu
Pitts and she sighed, “Lady, they both come
from the cow.”

THREE DANCES FEATURE
ANNUAL JUNIOR SPEAKING

(Continued from page 1)

Indications show that there will be a large
number of girls present and the anticipa-
tion of spring and beautiful weather points
to a big success. The members of the stu-
dent body are urged to invite girls for the
occasion and to take advantage of an eco-
nomical and most enjoyable week-end.

-Junior Speaking has come to be an an-
nual affair at Davidson, and marks an oc-

Drama League

The Drama League Travel Bureau,
a non-commercial organization, has at
its disposal scholarships covering full
tuition for the six weeks’ summer
session at the Central School of
Speech and Drama, affiliated with the
University of London. These scholar-
ships are primarily intended for stu-
dents interested in literary and drama
study, but are also given for the more
important purpose of promoting inter-
national understanding. We are very
eager that the donors of these schol-
arships shall not be disappointed in
the response to the unusual oppor-
tunity offered American students.

Students of the theatre and .teach-
ers of drama and its allied arts are
eligible to come before the committee
on awards, and application. blanks may
be obtained from the League’s head-
quarters in the Hotel Barbizon-Plaza,
New York. We welcome all letters of
inquiry concerning the granting of
scholarships.

casion that is one of the crowning social
events of the year. The’ social season has
been more or less cramped ‘because of ex-
penses, and it is believed that the commit-
tee acted wisely in engaging the Southern-
aires rather than an outside orchestra.

DR. C. W. DAVIS SPEAKS
AT Y. M. C. A. VESPERS

(Continued from page 1)

plies to science also applies to literature.
The people of today have insufficient faith
in the writers of contemporary literature.
A type of. literature based on a certain
idea soon is followed by another type based
upon an entirely different idea; thus, the
leadership of our authors is discredited.

“And we have seen just as marked a
change along theological lines as in scien-
tific and literary lines,’ continued Dr. Davis.
“The time will come when we will search
deep into the purposes of our leaders who
are controlling our country, especially in
the political world, where we find men who
have been selling out the interest of our
country for a few almighty dollars.”

The speaker then pointed out that we of

today are facing chaos in every field, and
that the leaders of the future must be will-
ing to put service before self. In connec-
tion with this statement, he told the story
of a certain wealthy manufacturer of At-
lanta, Ga., who gave his three million, five
hundred thousand dollar plant to his work-
men as a contribution to his fellowman.

In closing, the speaker stated that the
college men of today should endeavor to
build a sane, balanced, and righteous so-
ciety for the advancing age.

FRENCH PLAYS ARE GIVEN

BEFORE LARGE AUDIENCE

(Continued from page 1)

M. William Hart rendered several organ
numbers, some of which were: Les Cloches
de Ste. Anne de Beaupre, by Russell, and
Massenet’s Meditation from Thais. Lanier
Pratt gave a feature number on the pro-
gram, La Poule et ses Poussins, after play-
ing it on a record, made by a Harvard pro-
fessor.

Les Mademoiselles from Converse were
excellent in their parts. Miss Florence Pitts
was the lawyer, Pathelin, and Miss Lois
Hamilton, his wife. The draper was well
portrayed, by Miss Anna McGowahan, and
Miss Marion Finaly was fine in her role
of the shepherd. The judge was played by
Miss. Helen Pugh. The remainder of the cast
consisted of “sergents, bourgeois, and peu-
ple.”

Le Cercle appreciates the co-operation of
faculty members and their wives of other
departments, who assisted in the arrange-
ments and who loaned articles of clothing.
Professors Cumming, Erwin, and Fulcher
helped drill the cast and arrange the scen-
ery and properties; John Marvin was in
charge of an able body of make-up artists.

Rev. Donald H. Steward |
Will Speak Next Sunday

“When Youth Goes Collegiate” is to be
the very interesting subject of the talk
given next Sunday night at the Y. M. C. A.
vespers service, when’ the Rev. Donald H.
Steward, pastor of the Oakland Presbyte-
rian Church at Rock Hill, S. C., will speak.

The Reverend Steward is an alumni of Da-.
vidson:

Dr. Steward has seen much of the world.
He was born in Mexico City and moved at
an early age to England, where he was edu-
cated in the great English public schools.
At the age of sixteen he came to this coun-
try, spending three years at Davidson. He
took his A.B. degree at the University of
Louisville, and, upon continuing his work
there, he took the degree of Bachelor of
Divinity at the Louisville Theological Sem-
inary. Again crossing the Atlantic, he stud-
ied at the University of Edinburgh. Here
he was given a pastorate, and remained un-
til called to return to America as a minis-
ter in Birmingham, Alabama. Thence, he
went to Rock Hill, and has been there for
the past ten months. ‘

Dr. Steward is a very young man, and
takes an especial interest in student prob-
lems, consequently his address will strike
close to the hearts of the students.

A survey made by the Associated Press
has shown that the new football rules, de-
signed to prevent injuries and fatalities in
college and other football games, have re-
sulted in cutting college fatalities alone.

.
w

CO le knaw it..

Chesterfield

HEN smokerskeep buying the
same cigarette day after day...
it’s a pretty good sign that they’re
getting what they want... mildness,

better taste—a smoke that’s
the same.

So we’re going right on making
Chesterfields just as we always have
... selecting choice, ripe tobaccos
... ageing them... blending and
cross-blending them...making them
into cigarettes in the most scientific

ways that are known.

As long as we do these things we
know that smokers will continue to
say, ‘‘They Satisfy’’. For that’s what
peopleare saying about Chesterfields.

If you smoke, why not find out
about them? A package or two will

tell you the whole story.

a hestertield

always

© 1933, Liccatr & Mygrs Tosacco Co

THEY’RE MILDER —

THEY TASTE BETTER
