6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 22, 1933
5 . |VESPER SERVICE LED Italian soul in rendering music as a serv-;} VARSITY TRACK TEAM | Pratt, who led the field in the trials last
Varsity Net Tourney S ice to hjs_fellows, | TO HOLD INITIAL MEET Friday, will be entered in both the 220 lows

Nearing Final Round

The upperclassmen’s tennis tournament,
held to determine the positions on the Var-
sity tennis team, has reached the semi-final
round with no startling upsets, and the fa-
vorites running true to form. Another tour-
nament for the Freshmen has just been
started, and the four semi-finalists in this
will form the yearling net aggregation.

The semi-final match between Halver-
stadt and Elverey has already been played
off, with the former advancing to the finals
by the decisive scores of 6-2, 6-1, 6-2. In
the other semi-final match, Johnny Lafferty,
Number 2 player on the 1932 Varsity, op-
poses Tee Thompson, who disposed of Tom-
my Phifer, a member of last year’s Fresh-
man team, in the quarter-finals. The winner
of this match will meet Halverstadt for the
title.

Charlie Myers, Varsity captain, and Num-
ber 3 man on last year’s team, was forced
to default in the initial round, on account
of illness. This narrowed the field consider-
ably, as did the refusal of Skip Brown, 1933
Freshman captain, to enter the competition.

Elverey appeared to be the outstanding
Sophomore in the tourney, defeating Bob
“Morrow, a veteran of last year’s Varsity
squad, in three hard sets, 6-4, 2-6, 6-4.

The Freshman tennis tournament is yet
to get under Way, but should start some
time this week. Outstanding entries include
Addison Brenizer, Carlyle Lewis, and Sam
Milton. These boys are well known in junior
tennis circles throughout the state due to
their ‘scintillating play in the junior tour-,
naments of the past summer, in which Lewis
was runner-up for the South Atlantic cham-
pionship. Both Brenizer and Milton also
made excellent showings in these matches.

Local Sceut Troops
Engage in Jamboree

The two Boy Scout troops of Davidson
and Cornelius participated in a jamboree
Saturday afternoon, March 18. The contest,
which was held at Davidson, consisted of
various scouting and athletic activities. The
Cornelius troop gained the greater number
of points, and thus was accorded the vic-
tory, although the Davidson troop put up
a good defense. *

The leaders of ‘the two troops planned
a contest which required skill and knowl-
edge of scouting as well as athletics. Some
of the events were:

Signalling—Won by A. J. White and Ab
Ingram of the Cornelius troop.

Knot-tying—Won by Davidson, with Cyrus
Colvin, Harold Moony, James Moony, and
John Withers making high score.

A search game and two relay races were
won by the Cornelius troop.

Cyrus Colvin of Davidson won both the
water-boiling and the fire-by-friction con-
tests. .

James and Harold Moony of Davidson
were winners in a tent-pitching contest.

In a demonstration of first aid, Holeman
Byers and A.’ J. White of Cornelius were
victorious.

The final event of the afternoon was a
baseball game, in which Cornelius won by
the score of 14 to 7.

The leaders of the two troops are:

Davidson*-Ed Hodge and Gordon Wood.

Cornelius—Bill Ward, George Gullette, J.
H. Ross, B. F. Ormond, and A. A. Gammon.

GYPSY SMITH, JR., ENGAGED
TO SPEAK FOR “Y” VESPERS

(Continued from page 1)
during August, the big month, at Montreat
last summer.

Mr. Smith is the son of the Gypsy Smith
who gained for himself a world-wide repu-
tation as an evangelist. The son was born
in England, and at an early age his Gypsy
blood sent him roaming over the sea. At
the age of about 23 he was converted in
Brooklyn, N. Y., and since that time he has
followed close in the footsteps of his fa-
mous father.

Davidson is doubly fortunate to have this
man who has been called “the most highly
thought of professional evangelist” to lead
her services during this “Year of Evangel-
ism” when his appearance is so widely
sought.

U-PUSH-EMS
New Rates

at

M. P. Henderson’s
Gulf Station

BY MR. DAVID OVENS

, and finding real joy in|
doing’ so. :
The service was.concluded by singing the |

(Continued from page 1) : ean
personal responsibilities. He showed how | ®PPropriate hymn, “Seal Us, O Holy Spirit. |

this is illustrated by the comparatively few i |
additions to the church on profession of MY GREATEST THRILL |
faith, showing an obvious lack of personal |
work. He scored the compromising stand
taken by many Christians in regard to the exception of ten minutes of play in the Duke
liquor question. He made théir evasions of|@ame, I had been unable to play during
the main issues of life very clear by an il-| the past season due to-a-knee injury. When
lustration drawn from the ranks of those|™y name appeared on the starting line-up
who, refusing to accept the responsibility | 0f that Home-coming Day game, I had a
for the welfare of their children, turn them|Yather peculiar sensation all over, and an

over for the complete supervision of some even more peculiar feeling when we went
institution. |out on the field to choose our goal. There

*In speaking of America’s chance for re-| ¥95 7° DOSVICUIRE AneLUeny Win POU my

covery, from the evident"disorder in which | bout such a thrill, but ‘I am sure that it
it is’ clothed, he aptly compared it to a | was the fact that it was the first game that
boxer who is “down but not out,” thereby |! had played in for seven long weeks.

expressing his faith that the young people | I will remember this as a result of a year

(Continued -from page 5) |

(Continued from page 5)

year, will be missed in the pole vault, dis-
cus, and javelin throws, because of an ankle
which he hurt in basketball this winter.
Henry Rhyne, who tied the college record
in the high jump last year, is another let-
terman who will not be able to compete
against the Furman team Saturday.

Miller Cochran, who set a‘record in the
discus last year, will probably represent Da-
vidson in the shot put and javelin throm
as well as in the discus this week-end, de-
spite a weak knee which has hindered his
practice so far. Bettis, Dill, and Potter are
other luminaries in the weight events.

Again this year Davidson will be well
represented in the hurdle events. Lanier

and the 110 highs, along with Bob McCallie,
who has placed in many meets during the
past two-years. Alex Little will be entered
in the 220 lows, while Fred McPhail, prom-
ising Sophomore, will run the highs.

Captain Fleaglé, Dickerson, and McCallie
will take care of the dashes for the Wild-
cats; Glasgow, Gwynn, Cannon, Corbin, and
Koenig, the middle distances; Howard, Mor-
row; Gullette; -MeFadyen,—Morris,-.and_C.
Little, the distances.
~ The veteran Bill Flinn, and J. B. Lee will
be entered in the pole vault; Gammon,
Brown, L. McPhail, and Flinn in the high;
and Little, Flinn, Dickerson, Armistead, and
Wingfield in the broad jump. Bruce Pea-
body, who is out for baseball, may compete
in the high and broad jumps.

a
oo

his playing for the passengers on an ex-

would accept the challenge. |of very little actual playing on my part.

In closing, he showed that after one has
accepted his or her place, a real joy. comes
from the service that can be rendered. He
told the story of the little Italian minstrel
who, after failing to receive any tips for

cursion steamer, became rather disgruntled,
until he learned that the passengers were
penniless inmates of the hot city, who were
being given a free excursion to momentarily
relieve them from their wretched existence.
Then he returnd to them. He put his whole

THIRTEEN MEN FORM “Y”
DEPUTATIONS LAST WEEK

(Continued from page 1)
a meeting of the Persbytery Conference
to be held there at that time.

Next Sunday will see an interesting cus-
tom fulfilled again as the old Y. M. C. A.
officers and several of the new leaders go
to Chapel Hill on a return deputation with
the Carolina Y Cabinet.

We Do Not Offer Cheap Prices, or
Special “Price Inducements”

Because we do not offer a service of such
quality that we must try to give it away

JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP

Four Out of Five College Men Come Here

ILLUSION:

A large packing case is exhibited on a raised plat-
form. A young woman climbs into the box. Head,
hands and feet protrude, and are held by specta-
tors while the magician takes a crosscut saw and,
with the help of an assistant, saws through the
center of the box and apparently througt the wo-
man.

EXPLANATION:

There are many explanations for this illusion. One
method of performing this illusion requires the
presence of two girls in the box, One girl curls up
in the left half of the box with her head and hands
protruding, giving the effect you see illustrated
above. The other girl is doubled up in the right
half of the box, with only her feet showing. Nobody
is sawed in half.

achieved by some

KEPT FRESH
IN. THE WELDED
HUMIDOR PACK

Copyright, 1933, R. J. Reynolds Tobarco Company

——— NO TRICKS
-- JUST COSTLIER
TOBACCOS

IN A MATCHLESS BLEND

Cigarette advertising, too, has its tricks.
Consider the illusion that “Flavor” can be

pocus in manufacturing.

EXPLANATION: Just three factors control
the flavor of a cigarette. The addition of arti-
ficial flavoring. The blending of various to-
baccos. And the quality of the tobaccos them-

kind of magical hocus-

—_

lvs fun to be fooled =
...its more fun to KNOW

selves. Quality is by far the most’important.
Domestic cigarette tobaccos vary in price
from 5¢ a pound up to 40 a pound. Imported
tobaccos vary from 50¢ a pound to $1.15.

No wonder, then, that cigarettes differ in
taste—since distinctive, pleasing flavor de-
pends so largely upon the blending of the cost-
lier tobaccos.

It is a fact, well known by leaf
tobacco experts, that Camels
are made from finer, MORE EXPENSIVE
tobaccos than any other popular brand.

Try Camels. Give your taste a chance to sense
the subtle difference that lies in costlier to-
baccos ...a difference that means all the
world in smoking pleasure...in pure, un-«
alloyed satisfaction.

