WILDCATS MEET
TAR HEELS ON
GRID SATURDAY

Vol. XXI

‘The Davidsonian ==)

Alenda Lux Gbi

@rta Libertas

—=—

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 27, 1933

No. 2

YOWL TO MAKE
APPEARANCE IN
EARLY AUTUMN

Prose and Poetry Will Be Prom-
inent in Quarterly Maga-
zine

ART FEATURED

First Issue to Center Around
Foot

At a meeting of the staff of The
Yowl, Davidson’s humor magazine,
held early last week, plans were made
for the four issues of that publication
which will be put out this year.

The first issue of the magazine will
come out about October 15. This issue
will not be a feature number, but will
center around football,.and things per-
taining to that season. There will prob-
ably be in this issue a short story by
some member of the staff.

The topics of the other numbers
have not been definitely, set as yet, but
the December issue will probably cen-
ter around the Christmas season; the
March issue of a spring nature, and
the May number pertaining to gradu-
ation.

The Yowl will have something of a
new idea this year, in that there will
be in each issue some article of a more
literary nature. Stuart Henry will have
charge of this phase of the magazine.
Wills Hollingsworth will have the say
about the Poetry Department.

This year, as last year, there will
be a page devoted to the material sent
in by Joe Thompson, of the staff of
» The University Magazine, whose work
_ was enjoyed so much last year.

The Art Department this year will
be in the hands of Lorenzo McPhail.
There will-also be a page devoted this
year to Campus Chatter, probably in
the form’ of..a: column.

The editor of The Yowl, Bill Fugate,
urges that all Freshmen who have any
talent along humorous or literary lines
to come out for this work.

D. C. BAND IS
HEARD ON AIR

College Inaugurates Series of Ra-
die Programs Over WBT

Davidson inaugurated its first radio
program over Station WBT in a quar-
ter-hour program from 9:15 to 9:30
Monday night. Grier Martin, the al-
umni secretary, had charge of the pro-
gram, and after the playing of “O
Davidson” by the college band, under
the direction of Music Director James
C. Pfohl, introduced President Walter
L. Lingle. Dr. Lingle gave a brief
historical sketch of the college, and
introduced the new alumni secretary,
Grier Martin, and the new director of
music, James C. Pfohl. ‘

After the conclusion of Dr. Lingle’s
speech, the band played “Our Direc-
tor’s March,” by Biggelow, and “The
Washington Post March,” by Sousa.
The band then concluded the program
by playing “O Davidson.” S3

CHEERLEADERS
TO BE CHOSEN

The election of Junior cheer leaders
was begun Tuesday morning, Septem-
ber 26, during the chapel period. There
has been much competition among the
candidates for the two positions as
assistants to Head Cheer Leader Hugh
Hawkins. Of the ten Juniors compet-
ing, two will be elected by Thursday,
September 28: These two men will
assist Hawkins at all the athletic con-
tests during the year. During the lat-
ter part of the second semester the
head cheer leader for ‘next year will
be chosen from these two,

The men who are candidates for the

" positions. are: Fritz Byerly, -Greens:
boro; Ed Garrett, Greensboro; P. D.
Guerrant, Pasadena, Calif.; Kirk Han-
rahan, Kinston; Charles McCall, Ben-
nettsville, §. C.; Gus Maynard, Blue-
field, W. Va.; Geddie Monroe, Fay-
etteville; Harry Morris, Bessemer
City; Teal: rs, Bennettsville; S.
C.; and Paul Warren, Allendale, S. C.

DAVIDSON'S OLDEST AND YOUNGEST

VIVID LECTURE:

DELIVERED BY
REID GRAHAM

Davidson Aulianss Speaks Tues-
day Night on “Scenes From
India”

STUDIES AT YALE

Dr. E. F. Shewmake Introduces
Speaker

Mr. J. Reid Graham, on Tuesday
night, September 19, lectured and
showed slides which made vivid his
topic, “Scenes from India.”

Mr. Graham is an alumnus of Da-
vidson and graduated as the valedic-
torian of ‘his class. He then taught
at Gordon College, which is located in
Rawalpindi, India. At present he is
in the midst of his second year of
graduate work at Yale and is special-
izing in Mission History.

The speaker was introduced by Dr.
E. F. Shewmake, of the English de-
partment, and began his lecture by
stating the ideas which other nations
have formed of India and how incor-
rect these opinions have been proved
by his own experiences in India. Peo-
ple have thought that India is a place
of romance and a land of misery, but
Mr. Graham found these statements
untrue. “There is no more romance

Here is a picture of Dr. C. R.

Harding, Davidson professor for

the past 45 years, and James C. Pfohl, who this year at the age of
twenty took charge of the Department of Music, greeting each

other as they met on the campus) at the opening of school.

Dr.

Harding, although past the age of retirement, is still very active as

a professor. Pfohl, who graduated

at the University of Michigan, is

one of the youngest college professors in the United States. The

picture was snapped by Bill Lyon,

b

a of the Senior class.

jin India than anywhere else,” the
| speaker remarked, and then added,
\“Nor is the land covered with wild
|animals as people often believe.”

A number of picturesque slides were
shown to impress the audience with
the beauty of India. This part of the
demonstration was divided geographi-
cally into two parts—Kashmir, in the
northwestern part of India, and Brit-
ish India. :

COLLEGE MEN
AID HI-Y BOYS

Several Scout Troops to Be Or-
ganized by Y. M. C. A.
Workers

As the work of the Davidson Y. M:
C. A, gets under way for the year of
1933, a large part will be taken by
those interested in Boys’ Work. Sam]
Nickey, who has charge of this work,
has planned an extensive program for
this year, (

Hi-Y Clubs will be organized in Da-
vidson and Cornelius. It is also planned
to attempt Hi-Y Clubs this year in
Mooresville, Mt. Mourne and Hunters-
ville. :

The usual Scout troops will be or-
ganized. The Davidson troop — will
probably be in charge of Ed Hodge
and Qdi Casali. “George Gullette will
have charge of the Cornelius troop.
Soup Brannon will have something to
do -with—the -troop—which—is— planned
for the Mill Chapel, and Tom Phifer
will be in charge of the negro troop
contemplated.

Cub troops will be tried this year in
Davidson and Cornelius. A troop will
also be re-established in Mt. Mourne.

(Continued on page 8)

GRID TICKETS
ARE REDUCED

Ticket prices for Davidson’s home
games will be substantially reduced |
this year, according to Captain Nor-
ton G. Pritchett, director of athletics.

The general admission charge for
the remaining three games at Richard-
son Field, including the Home-coming
game with Duke on October 21, will
be $1.65. This includes the tax. Last
year, the general admission charge for
the games at Richardson Field was
$2.00.

Captain Pritchett said that athletic
authorities were endeavoring to make
arrangements with officials at Caro-
lina and State whereby special rates
might be offered Davidson students.
The Wildcats meet. Carolina at Chapel
Hill Saturday, and play State at Ra-
leigh on November 4. |

It‘is probable that special rates will
be offered to parents of students at
the V. M. I. game on October 14. Cap-
tain Pritchett said he hoped it would
be possible. to ‘sell these tickets for
$1.00. :

Student tickets ‘for the Thanksgiv-
ing Day game with Wake Forest in
Charlotte will cost $1.00. Seats--will
be reserved for student contingents of

PHI’S AND EU’S

HOLD MEETINGS|

gore

H. Hawkins and W. Fugate Lead

Programs of Literary’ So-
cieties

The first regular meetings of David-
son’s two literary societies, Philan-
thropic and Eumenean, were held
Tuesday evening in their respective
halls. A number of Freshmen were
present at both meetings, it is report-
ed, and a successful literary year is
anticipated. Programs at both society
meetings were presented primarily for
the benefit of‘ the Freshmen and to
give the college newcomers an idea of
the nature of regular literary society
meets,

At the Eu meeting, John Shirey was
in charge of the program, which in-
cluded: the’ president’s welcome to
Frosh, by Hugh Hawkins; an_histor-
ical. sketch of Eu Society, by Ed
Hodge; an informal talk intended to
familiarize the Freshmen with their
professors, by Jack Riens.

‘Officers of Eu Society elected last
spring for this term’s work are: Hugh
Hawkins, president; Don Bailey, vice-
president; W. B. Singleton, secretary;

(Continued on page 4)

PEP MEETING

Plans have recently been an-
nounced for one of the biggest
pep meetings of the year, to be
held on Thursday night, Septem-
ber 28, at 7 o'clock, prior to the
Carolina game. The pep meet-
ing will \take the usual form,
originating in Shearer Hall,
where the student body will take
part in the customary songs and
yells. Head Cheer Leader Hugh
Hawkins and his newly-elected
assistants will preside at this
meeting.

After the proper spirit of en-
thusiasm has been aroused prom-
inent members of the football
team will say a few words to
the student body. These short
talks will be followed by an in-
spiring “pep talk” by one of the
most popular members of the
faculty, whose identity has not
yet been disclosed.

The meeting in Shearer Halli
will be followed by the Fresh-
man shirt-tail parade, led by the
college band, to the: front of
Chambers Building, where more
songs, yells, and speeches will be
in order. ~ .

All students are urged to be on
hand promptly at 7 o'clock.

both schools between the 40-yard fines.

*

From the slides of the pictures in
Kashmir, the audience received a vivid
picture of the life in India. The Hima-
laya Mountains were beautifully por-
{trayed. The Indian people found it
necessary to wear sun helmets ip spite
of the cold weather. There is’ very
little rainfall in Kashmir, and there-
fore the inhabitants water the fields
by banking the streams which flow
down the mountain peaks.

British India, the land of five rivers,
has three different religions. Mr. Gra-
ham stated that the belief in all re-
ligions being alike is false, and while
showing the slides he explained the
different types of religion in British
India.

The first type was the Hindooism
religion, and the historic Hindoo tem-
|ples were shown on the screen. The
speaker was impressed with the way
the Hindoos regard nature by staring
for hours at the sun, treés, and flowers
without saying a word.

The religion known as Mohammed-
anism was next discussed. The Mo-
hammedans use pools for ceremonial
washing, and by dipping their feet in
ithe water they believe that their sins
are washed away. A group of slides
were shown of the Mohammedans
while worshipping. The worshipper
stands, kneels, bows, and stoops while
praying.

“Should India be freed from Great
| Britain?” the speaker asked. The peo-
ple of India should not have their free-

(Continued on page 8)

STUDENTS ARE
"SENT WELCOME

| A. cordial invitation for Davidson
| students to make the Charlotte Cham-
| ber of Commerce their headquarters
when in the “Queen City’ was ex-
| tended by the organization through
;C. O. Kuester, its executive vice-presi-
| dent and business manager, in a recent
|letter to Mr, F. L. Jackson.
| The Charlotte Chamber of Com-
| merce is located at 123 West Fourth
| Street.

The body of Mr. Kuester’s letter to
Mr. Jackson follows:

“Wish you would spread the news
around the campus of Davidson as
usual that the Charlotte Chamber of
Commerce extends cordial invitation
to your students while in Charlotte to
make their headquarters at the Cham-
ber of Commerce.

“Any time we can-be of service to
any of them, will be only too glad and
happy to serve them and we want each
and every one to feel that they have
a friend in the Charlotte Chamber of
Commerce and the City of Charlotte
and when they come to Charlotte they
are coming to their own home town.”

|
|
|

FRESHMEN ENJOY _
FRATERNITY SOCIALS

Many Girls, Alumni and Visitors
Are Present for First House
Party of Year

VARIED ENTERTAINMENT

STUDENT DIRECTORY

On page four of this issue of
“The Davidsonian” will be found
the 1933-1934 Student Directory
of Davidson College. The stu-
dents are listed alphabetically, ir-
respective of their classes. Fol-
lowing each student’s name, how-
ever, there is in parenthesis a
number signifying the class of
which he is a member. A (1)
signifies a member of the Fresh-
man class, (2) the Sophomore
class, (3) the Junior class, and
(4) the Senior class.

Several Banquets and Dances Are
Sponsored for First Year
Men

The annual Freshman house party,

jing season,” brought many feminine
| organizations gave special programs to
| sored dances in nearby towns, while
H. E. FULCHE

Sco ReE | The Beta Theta Pi group held a

|
Association |by first-year men, A_ buffet supper
physics instructor at Davidson since|phas held a banquet, which several
vancement of Science, according to a! dance the following evening in Gas-

sponsored by social fraternities upon
the hill in connection with the “rush-
| visitors to Davidson over the week-
jend. Nine of the ten national social
| help entertain the first-year men.
BODY HONORS | Several of the fraternal clubs spon-
|three held banquets to which the
| . .
| Freshmen were invited with guests.
Physics Professor Elected to/hanquet in their own house Saturday
Membership in Scientific jnight. The affair was well attended
eG | was given by Pi Kappa Phi Saturday
Professor Henry Emmett Fulcher, | night at their house. The Kappa Al-
1925, was recently elected a fellow of | faculty members and rushees attend-
the American Association for the Ad-|ed, in Charlotte Friday night, and a
notice from Henry B. Ward, perma-
nent secretary of the group.

According to a section of the by-/|
laws of the association, all members
who are professionally engaged in sci-
entific work, or who have advanced
science by research, may be elected
by the council to be fellows on nomi-
nation or on their own application.

been met by members of affiliated so-
cieties having a research qualification.

The words “professionally engaged
in scientific work” as they occur -in
the above section are interpreted to
include members who have contributed
to the advancement of science, usually
by the publication of. scientific. re-:
search, or in other significant manner,

This qualification is understood to have |

tonia.

The Theta Upsilon Omega fraternity
had a party, at which games were
played and refreshments served, at a
cabin near Huntersville. Concord was
the scene of a dance sponsored by
Kappa Sigmas, and Mooresville was
the scene of similar functions held by
the Sigma Phi Epsilons and the Phi
Delta Thetas. A party at which danc-
ing was enjoyed was held at the Cava-
lier Club in Charlotte by the Pi Kappa
Alphas. The Phi Gamma Deltas spon-
sored a dance-party at a cabin on the
Catawba River.

Beta Theta Pi: Misses Virginia
Carey, Dot McClintock and Eleanor
Stone, of Charlotte, and Carrie Walker,
Zeta Mangum, and Louise Chandler,

of Burlington.
Pi Kappa Alpha: Misses Anna Lee
Professor Fulcher received his Bach-| Harris, Dot Jones, Dot Baker, and
elor of Science and also Master’s ‘de-| Elizabeth Owen, of Charlotte; Frances
grees from the University of Virginia.|Stough, of Davidson; Betsy Johnson,

such as teaching or directing research
in an institution of repute.

He also attended William and Mary | of Wytheville, Va.; Margaret Hack-
College in Virginia and the University | "ey, of Washington, D. C., and Evelyn
of Chicago, before accepting the posi- | Pannil, of Albemarle.

ate Professor of Physics here. ;gram, Amelia Webb, May D. Marion,

{Katherine Crowell, Lucille Dulin, Jean

MANY GO OUT | Montgomery, Jean Early, Sally Hun-

| Lambeth, of Charlotte; Eve Stevenson

FOR DEBATING and-Loleah Gray, of Camilla, Ga.; Kat

poe caae O'Farrell, of Kings Mountain, and

Candidates for Debating | Kappa Sigma: Misses Ruth Ballard,

Team | Betty Claire Gray, and Frances With-

oe jers, of Gastonia; Kitty Van Eschop

1933-34 debating season were carried Eleanor Nunn, of New Bera; Clay-

forward by the Forensic Council at its) bourn Bunch, of Colymbia, S. C., and
first meeting of the year. The debat-| Catherine Bonnitz, of Greensboro,

tant place in the plan-making, for it/¢son, Suzanne Simmons, Mary Paine,

is this event that opens the debating | Sara Thompson, Kitty Van Eschop,

season, The ‘tryouts will be held about | Biddie Mattox, and Lydia Stewart, of

have already signified their desire to | Rhett, of Davidson ; Dot Miller, of

try out for a position on the team. | Rock Hill, S. C.; Louise Melchor, of

The council has set a deadline to fal] | Mooresville; Odessa Newland, of Co-

other men will be allowed to take part |caster, S. C.; Margaret Compton, of

in the tryouts. |Sumter, S. C., and “Pud” Stewart, of

The subject for the debating tryouts | Mt. Holly.

(Continued on page 5) | Price, Elizabeth Price, Miriam Steele,

ay {Eleanor Killick, Mae Lebby Smith,

GRIDGRAPH IS |Lois Meacham, Eleanor Hayes, and

tion of James Buchanan Duke Associ-| Kappa Alpha: Misses Virginia Pe-
|ter, Grace Lawing, and Mary Wisdom

Thirty-three Men Respond aes Crosby, of Chester, S. C.
Plans Be the inauguration of the|and Jackie Williams, of Charlotte;
ing tryouts occupied the most impor-| Pi Kappa Phi: Misses Frances Math-
the last of October, Thirty-three men |Giatlotte, Dot Fredrickson, Elizabeth
on October 15, after which date no |lumbia, S. C.; Corrine Ellison, of Lan-
will be announced later. Due to the| Phi Gamma Delta: Misses Sara Lib
Dot Hand, of Charlotte; Dougie Long,

NOW A FIXTURE Tut Gorrell, and Margaret Banks, of
Greensboro; Louise Melchor, of

Senne | Mooresville; Estelle Hall, of Belmont;

Davidson students who are unable to Ann Hoover, of Concord; Caroline
accompany the football team on its in-| Wharton and Margaret Gorrell, of

vasions into various foreign territories! Winston-Salem, and Libby Rhett, of
will be able henceforth to see a vivid Davidson. ;
portrayal of every game played by the! Theta Upsilon Omega: Misses Tad
Wildcats away from home, thanks to| Pardue, Ellen Hawkins, Nancy Bryant,
the latest type of Gridgraph which has} Earle Pegram, and Caroline Rivers, of
been installed in Shearer Hall by the) Charlotte; Adele Arbuckle, of David-
Athletic Association. }son; Mabel McConnell, of Moores-
This large rectangular board, eight | ville; Hibernia Hudson, of High Point;
feet by twelve, portrays immediately | Gertrude Thompson, of Salisbury, and
every| play which takes place on the! Corellie Lazenby, of Statesville.
distant gridiron as soon as it flashes, Phi Delta Theta:, Misses Harriet
off the wires. |Moore, Mary Whitmore, Jane Ellen
Numerous electric light bulbs, ¢on-|Tawlor, Jane Wiley, Virginia Knee,
trolled by eighteen switches, ‘will flash} Elizabeth Torrence, Lois Munroe,
out a realistic play-by-play account of | Mary Payne, Margaret Gilliam, Caro-
Wildcat games on foreign soil, begin-|line Hodge, and Bertha Burch, of
ning—it is hoped by athletic aficiaiess (Charlottes Bernardene Johnson, of
with the Carolina game tiis Saturday. | Asheville; Jane Gaw,: of Greensboro;
The usual admission charge of fif-| Margaret Cochran, of Winston-Salem;
teen cents per student will be contin-| Dorothy Schnessler, of Roanoke, Ala.;

ued. in order to ‘defray expenses. (Continued on page 5)”
