THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 22, 1933 -

The Bookshelf

Kleine Liebe zu Amerika, by Manfred Haus- |

who perchance might still believe that the
streets of America are flowing with milk
and honey.-Except for this one chapter and
es occasional dash of wit the book is a
dreary desert, from the standpoint at least

man, Berlin, S. Fischer Verlag, 1931, andj of imparting any useful information about

Ein deutscher Austauschstudent in Kali-|

fornien, by Klaus Mehnert, Berlin und
Leipzig, Deutsche Verlags-Anstalt, 1930.

These two recent German books on Amer-

ica present a marked contrast. We mention
Kleine Liebe zu Amerika only as”
Mehnert’s thoughtful, sympathetic study.
Commenting on Hausmann’s book, Vicki
Baum, atthoress of.“Grand Hotel,” who has
recently come to live in America, said that
if she were to write a book on America the
title would be, not “Little Love for America,”
but “Great. Love for America.” In’ spite of
the fact that Hausmann’s effort has prac-
tically nothing to commend it except-a clever
style, it is reported to have won the prize
of the Ralph-Beaver Strassburger Founda-
tion as the best book on America published
in Germany in 1931. If this be true, one might
well pray to be spared the worst book. Haus-
mann tells wittily about his voyage across
the Atlantic, and then relates his superficial
experiences under such heads as A-Bit of
Broadway, The Havana Special, Havanna
Habana Havana, Colored People, Geography
in Jacksonville, Across the Mississippi, Chi-
cago Cocktail. One chapter might be con-
sidered as having constructive value. The
author tells of meeting an usher at a theater
in St. Louis, who turns out to be a German
immigrant. The latter tells him of his diffi-
culties and discouragements in finding jobs

and holding them in America in a way that
might well prove a warning to Europeans

a

all over the religious world. None

(ocr rrr rrr

our country, and should be added to the
already long list of books which ought never
'to have been printed and lectures which
|ought never to have been delivered.

Dr. Klaus Mehnert, whose little book’ tells

vy ——-his—experiences—as—a—German_exchange_stu-
a foil toy **! zs 2 a

| dent at the University of California, started
|his academic career at that institution the
| fall of 1928, and stayed long enough to gain
ja real insight into American academic and
| national life. Before coming here he had al-
| ready travelled extensively in Russia and the
| Orient, and has recently published a book
/on Soviet Russia. Since his return to his own
| country he has been made a member of the
staff of Der Akademische Austauschdienst,
which administers the exchange scholarships
from the German end.

He attacks at the outset the common Eu-
ropean error that America is “standardized,”
cast in a dreary mold of sameness from one
end to the others Not only does he point out
horizontal distinctions, but also vertical ones.
He states that two centuries could not be
more different than two generations of fa-
thers and sons, and that he who would un-
derstand the America of tomorrow must
study, not industries and ministries, but
schools and universities. The author is great-
ly impressed with the success of self-govern-
ment in American public (secondary) schools,
and -wishes a remark made at a student
council meeting (“Make yourselves free from
personal feelings; you are not persons, you

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

Richmond,
B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., LL.D., President
A graduate of Davidson and of Union studying abroad writes:

“There are able scholars here whose books are known and read

professors at Union as teachers, and none of them can challenge a
student to joyous, practical Christianity as did our professors there.”

are representatives”) might be carved over

Virginia

of them can surpass some-of our

Pr rrr tri t trri tiie)

U-PUSH-EMS

at

M. P. Henderson’s Gulf Station

ni

NEW RATES

e foreign territory.

STUDENTS’ CRUISES

Magazine subscription scholarship» workers and crew man-
agers write immediately for very best student scholarship offers
of leading publishers. Can be worked there now. Permanent posi-
tions if experienced, also summer crews for United States and

FOR FULL DETAILS WRITE

The Collegiate Scholarship Institute

219 Republic Building, Miami, Florida

-“DRUGS”

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

Make Our Store Your Store
Student Supplies

WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.

“SODAS”

“SUNDRIES”

TAILORING DISPLAY at the Soda Shop
EVERY THURSDAY

Star Direct Tailors

GEO. W. LAPITZ B. O. RAVENEL
Factory Representative Student Representative

- $23.50 Up

the portals of the German hall of parliament.
He concedes that America is not a democ-
racy politically, but asserts that it is educa-
tionally, stressing the fact that large num-
bers of students. earn their way without los-
ing social caste.

In so fair and sympathetic a study as
Mehnert’s one cannot but accept his criti-
cisms of our system at par, and concede that
he is right in most or all of them. But each
critcism is followed by an analysis of the
sittration-behinditA ftertelling_of the high-
schoolish quality of much of our college
work; he states that fifty per cent of our
college and university students are of a type
that would not be in niversities in Europe,
and that they are being educated here to be
“good citizens.” He combats the comic paper
and movie idea that student life is a grand
lark (dass der Student viel bummelt) and
helieves that the American Freshman, at
least, works harder than his German count-
erpart.

He found the first football. game he saw
extremely tiresome, because he did not un-
derstand it, but later came to respect the
science of the game highly, even yelling him-
self hoarse at some of the games. He does
not share the usual European contempt at
organized cheering. He believes that is a part
of a great solidifying force, and he ex-
presses outspoken admiration at the intensity
of college loyalty in its better manifestations,
a loyalty scarcely known at Continental Eu-
ropean universities,

Mehnert is duly thrilled by being invited
by a “co-ed” to be her partner ata sorority
“formal,” and thinks in general very highly
of the “Kommilitoninnen,” as he rather
facetiously dubs the “Co-eds.”

Among the “thirteen points” in which he
finds expressed the essence of American
civilization may be mentioned: a scientific
spirit rather than worship of authority, con-
quest of nature in the service of man, a high
standard of business ethics, efficiency, equal-
ity (give everybody a chance), belief in the
dignity of labor, co-operation, etc.

The little book is written in very easy, en-
tertaining German. . The reviewer hopes
many of the students and faculty may be
moved-to read it for=themselves:-It-is~in
the library.

DELTA PHI ALPHA.

ALUMNI NEWS

(Continued from page 3)

vidson College in the class of ’30, where he
was a leader in athletics and in his studies.
Last year he won, with his brother, James
A. Halverstadt of the Junior class at David-
son, the double championship in. the Ohio
Valley Tennis Tournament. He is associated
with Proctor &,.Gamble’s research depart-
ment in Cincinnati.

As yet no date has been set for the wed-
ding. Mr. Walter Lee Lingle, Jr., ’28, son
of Dr. and Mrs. Walter L. Lingle of David-
son, ‘also has a position with Proctor &
Gamble and he and Mr. Halverstadt have
roomed together since they first arrived in
Cincinnati.

Of especial interest throughout the South
is the announcement of the marriage by
Dr. and Mrs. David Meade Mann of their
daughter, Mary Austin, to the \Reverend
Joseph Rogers Walker, ’21, on Saturday, Jan-
uary 28, at Saint Pauls Church in Richmond,
Va. The Reverend and Mrs. Walker
making their home in Raleigh, N. C.

The interest of a wide circle of friends is
centered in the announcement made by Mr.
and Mrs. Lucius B. Wooton of the engage-
ment of their daughter, Hazel Cleveland, to
Thomas Eugene Gray, ’25, son of the late
Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Thomas Gray of Colum-
bia, S. C., the wedding to be an event of the
spring. ’

The announcement appearing in the Sun-
day Times-Union is as follows: ‘Miss
Wooton is a charming and popular member
of the social contingent of Jacksonville. She
has always made her home in Jacksonville
and is a granddaughter of Mrs. W. W.
Cleveland and the late W. W. Cleveland.
She was graduated from Robert E. Lee High
School and attended Brenau College, Gaines-
ville, Ga., where she was a member of Alpha
Delta Pi sorority, She is president of the
Jacksonville Alumnae Club of Alpha Delta
Pi. ;

“Mr.Gray is a graduate.of the Columbia
High School, and received his A.B. degree
from Davidson, where he was a member of
Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. Since he was
graduated he has been connected with the
Missouri State Life Insurance Company and
is now with the Lorick and Vaiden agency
in, Jacksonville, where he has lived for the
past three years.”

(NOTE: All alumni who have articles for
this column will please send them to Jack
Williams, Jr., Alumni Editor, Box 262, Da-
vidson, N. C.

are

The 1936 class at Rutgers University is the
healthiest class entered there in many years,
according to college authorities.

An exhibit of men’s apparel in New York
reveals that the “well-dressed man” must

have 29 complete outfits.

Silver Screen

Wednesday, February 22— Washington
Merry-Go-Round—(M-G-M)

Liberty gives this four stars and “Photo-
play” considers it one of the best of the
month of its release. Lee Tracy, sent to
Washington on bought votes, doublecrosses
the gang in the interests of his country in

in an exciting picture. Good for those dis-
liking politics and appropriate for George
Washington’s birthday.

Thursday, February 23—Secrets of Madame
Blanche—(M-G-M)

variation of the Madame X theme. Douglas

Walton, Lionel Atwill, and C. Henry Gor-

don give pleasing support.

Friday, February 24—No More Orchids—
(Columbia)

The beautiful Carole Lombard, since add-
ing “e” to her first name, has found success
in her recent pictures. This one, on the old
theme of the rich girl chasing the poor boy
and turning down a prince, is given fresh
treatment. Amusing difficulties arise, and the
story rolls merrily on.-A good cast, includ-
ing the lovely Lombard lady, Lyle Talbot,
Jameson Thomas, and Louise Closser Hale,
make this good entertainment.

Saturday, February 25—Man Against Wom-
an—(Columbia)

Jack Holt is good in a new detective story.
His job is to shadow indiscreet women, this
making a very interesting yarn. He wins a
night club singer despite the gangster’s op-
position. Lillion Miles gives him able sup-
port.

Monday and Tuesday, February 27-28—The
King’s Vacation—( Warner)

George Arliss, one of the screen’s finest
actors, gives us a splendid picture. . It is
about a man who gives up his wife and child
to become king and after cighteen years
returns-to his old home. The change which
he finds upon arriving at his old home makes
this a pleasing modern comedy romance.

The story combines the lightness of “The
Millionaire” with the dramatics of “Disreali”
in making a good picture. Dick Powell, Mr.

an_attempt_to reform politics. A good cast.

George Arliss, Patricia Ellis, Dudley Diggs,
O. P. Heggie give him the best supporting
cast of his career.

Intercollegiate Press

Buffalo — (IP) — Canisius College here
placed on display last week one of the few
existing copies of the Koburger Bible, print-
ed in several successive editions by Anthony

Koburger of Nuremberg, Germany, in the

Lelosing—years—of the fifteénth century.

The Canisius copy dates from 1483, so 1933
marks its 450th birthday. It was in honor of
this event-that the college put it on display
last week, along with some other treasures
of its library.

The Bible was given the college by Rev.
William Turner, Bishop of Buffalo. It is
printed in Gothic type on paper which will
outlast other centuries. It has an embossed
sheepskin binding, It is elaborately illustrated
with wood cuts, being the first Bible which
included illustrations on this scale. The col-
oring is done by hand and time has scarcely
dimmed it, according to experts.

Dr. Willis J. King, for the last two years
president of Samuel Houston College at
Austin, Texas, has been elected president of
Gammon Theological Seminary at Atlanta,
Georgia.

Vesper Advance

Davidson will be honored next Sun-
day night by the presence of Dr. W. E.
Davis of the First Presbyterian Church
of Concord who will be the speaker for
vespers service. Dr. Davis’ subject will
be, “Leadership for an Advancing
Age.” We know that this is a very
vital question and Dr. Davis will cer-
tainly give us some good counsel on
the subject.

Dr. Davis was called recently to
Concord from the Second Presbyterian
Church of Staunton, Virginia. He has
done some preaching in West Virginia,
and also he was the pastor of the Cen-
tral Presbyterian Church in Atlanta.
Dr. Davis is a very good speaker and
it would be well worth our while to
hear this man.

7
Pe

TOBACCOS

»

J
a

STUDENT SUPPLIES ;
FOUNTAIN SERVICE

WwW. S. HENDERSON

NEXT DOOR TO POSTOFFICE

CANDY

eS

5

eg. as aa 3) as aa 5) as” MEN 5) a" bag ny : Q|
BIR AaB aD Za BEEK AaB Za

© Davidson Theatre

yORSED EES

@

pooooed

yy

en
Gaz
i\

WEDNESDAY
“WASHINGTON MERRY-GO-ROUND”
LEE TRACY — CONSTANCE CUMMINGS
THURSDAY
“SECRETS OF MADAME BLANCHE”
PHILIP HOLMES — IRENE DUNNE
FRIDAY

“NO MORE ORCHIDS”
CAROLE LOMBARD

SATURDAY :

“MAN AGAINST WOMAN”
JACK HOLT

MONDAY AND TUESDAY

“KING’S VACATION”
GEORGE ARLISS

SI...

ollege
Printing

Magazines,
Handb

AEB MAE CER MAB

‘*PREFERRED PRINTING SERVICE’?

Catalogs,
E ooks, Etc,
Nothing too large or small for our plant—Let us serve you

A. M. MANSON, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE

6,600 Square Feet of Floor Space Devoted ‘to Printing,

Always Best

STANDARD PRINTING CO.CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Programs, Newspapers, Bulletins,
Engraved Cards and Invitations.

Exclusively.

