JUNIOR SMOKER CONVERSE GROUP
TO BE HELD WILL BE HERE
TONIGHT FRIDAY
Alenda- Lux Ubi Orta Libertas
Vol. XX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 22, 1933 No. 19

Converse and Davidson
French Societies Will

Give Performance Here
Private Reception Will Be Given After
The Entertainnient in Honor of
L’Alliance

COMEDIES TO BE GIVEN

Dr. and Mrs. A. Vermont to Come
With Converse Girls

The Converse Alliance Francais will ar-
rive in Davidson late in the afternoon of
February 24th, by automobile, and chaper-
oned by Dr. and Mrs. A. Vermont. The mem-
bers of L’Alliance will be entertained at din-
ner by the members of Davidson’s Le Cercle
Francais, and after this the joint perform-
ances by the two French societies will be
presented at 7:30 p. m. in Chambers Audi-
torium with an admission of ten cents. After
the public performance in the auditorium,
the student members of the two French
clubs will hold a joint meeting in the Quad-
wranglers’ Club room. Here Davidson’s’ Le
Cercle will entertain the Converse girls at
a reception.

The public performance will consist of the
second act of Maitre Pathelin by the Con-
verse group, which will display some of the
finest histrionic talent that Converse affords.

The Farce de Maitre Pathelin is a master-
piece of the Middle Ages. It has been called
by the great historian Michelet the “epic
of an age of rogues.” The plot of the farce
runs as follows: Pathelin, a village lawyer,
with the aid of his scheming wife, Guille-
mette, cheats a draper out of a piece of
cloth. To the draper’s insistent calls, Pathelin
pretends to lend a deaf ear, feigning sick-
ness. The draper, who refuses to pay his
shepherd, Thibaut Aignelet, is in turn cheat-
ed by him out of one of his sheep. The mat-
ter is brought to court, and Pathelin defends
the shepherd who wins his case, by assum-
ing stupidity and replying “Baa-a,”’ to all
the court’s questions. But when Pathelin
asks for his pay the wily shepherd continues
to say “Baa-a”; thus one rogue outwits an-
other. The well-known remark, “‘Revenons .a
nos moutons,” is from this old farce of un-
known authorship. It was popular toward
the end of the fifteenth century, and its suc-
cess ever since has been extraordinary.

The second act is in the cottage of Maitre

(Continued on page 6)

Davidson Students Hear

Rudy Vallee’s Orchestra

This Bend Making a inpiacTour of Southern
Colleges

Rudy Vallee and his Connecticut Yankees,
one of the most outstanding dance orchestras
in the United States, played for a dance
given at the Charlotte Armory-Auditorium
on Friday, February 17th. The dance was
well attended, both the dance floor and the
balcony being well filled. Many Davidson
students were in attendance, in spite of in-
clement weather, and all of them found the
dance to be very enjoyable.

The orchestra played a concert during the
first part of the evening. The director him-
self was over an hour late in his appear-
ance, but upon arriving, he led in a number
of old hits which he had made famous. Dur-
ing this part of the program, Vallee sang;
later Miss Alice Faye, well-known “torch
singer” who is traveling with the orchestra,
rendered the vocal selections. Her singing
was one of the high lights of the evening.

In addition to the usual dance music, the
orchestra rendered several novelty numbers,
which proved to be very enjoyable. The most
entertaining player in the orchestra was the
drummer, who almost stole the show from
the director. However, Rudy Vallee present-
ed several features himself, imitating very
cleverly Maurice Chevalier and Bing Crosby.

A unique feature was to be found in the
amplifying system used during the program.
There were several microphones stationed at
various places in the orchestra, so that each
instrument would produce the desired sound
effects and volume. Two experts were re-
quired to operate this system.

The members of the orchestra were
dressed in attractive uniforms, consisting of
blue coats and black trousers.

It might be-of interest to some students
that Bernie Cummings”is not booked for an
engagement in Charlotte for next month, as
was recently announced.

Gymnastic Competition

In the recent gymnastic competition
that has been he!d for the past two
weeks, Lacy Adcox was the victor,
scoring more points than any other
contestant in the past three years. Ad-
cox is a Junior and has been runner-
up for the past two years in this com-
petition.

Lewis Vickery, a S » won
place and Ben Taylor won the third
place. Among the points gotten by
the competitors for their class the Sen-
iors were first with 1,169 points, the
Sophomores were second with 406,
Juniors third with 316, and the Fresh-
men were last with 59 points.

The gymnastic champion last year
was ‘Paul Brown, who is a Senior this
year, and was disqualified this season
for that reason.

These gymnastic exercises are con-
ducted under the direction of the
Physical Education Department, in-
structed by Captain Pritchett. Each
year these competitions have become
more popular. This year there were
over forty. men entered.

d

Davidson is Victorious.
in Debate With Emory

McKeithan and Brown Uphold Nega-
tive for Davidson; Thrower and
Brady Represent Emory

Davidson won its first debate, last Friday
evening. The tocal Forensic Council was rep-
resented by Leland McKeithan and Gordon
(Skip) Brown. Their opponents were Ran-
dolph Thrower and Bill Brady of Emory
University. The question for debate was, Re-
solved: That the United States should agree
to the cancellation of its inter-allied war
debts. The affirmative-side of this debate
was held up by the representatives from
Emory University while the Davidson de-
baters supported the negative.

The two Emory debaters and their man-
ager arrived in Davidson late Friday after-
noon, shortly before the debate at 7:30. Bibb
Brady, in his speech, mentioned thg fact that
their arrival was rather tardy. The Forensic
Council was their host during their brief
stay here.

Each debater gave a ten-minute construc-
tive speech and a five-minute rebuttal speech.

The general trend of the affirmative argu- |-

ment was that cancellation of the inter-allied
war debts would eliminate a barrier to our
export trade and thus be conducive to do-
mestic and world recovery. The affirmative
speakers argued that the cancellation of
these debts would stimulate our commerce
by promoting the goodwill of the nations
of the world.

The negative refuted this argument by
showing that the basic obstacles to world
rehabilitation are not inherent in the debts
themselves, but rather in the intricate sys-
tem of tariffs, export quotas, and national-
istic restrictions on imports which make im-
possible the normal movement of interna-
tional transfer. The negative further showed
that only by a radical reversal of these trade
policies would any progress be made toward
economic normalcy, inasmuch as world sta-
bilization is contingent upon active interna-
tional trade with its resulting money trans-
fer. Cancellation of the war debts, it con-
cluded, was a futile means to pursue if its
end was to revive a stable world economy.

(Continued on page 6)

Spanish Fraternity
Honors Six New Men

Tonight Sigma Delta Pi, national fraternity
which honors achievement in.the study of
Spanish, will initiate six new members. Those
receiving the honor are Fred Smyre, Rob-
ert Woodside, Jack Williams, Bill Reid,
Hugh Johnston, and Ed Humphrey. These
men are all Juniors and received bids in
recognition of outstanding work in this and
other years. The initiation ceremony is quite
elaborate. The fraternity carries on the pro-
grams at its meetings in Spanish. These
sometimes include games involving the use
of that language.

The local officers of ‘Sigma Delta Pi for
the year are: Francis Bixler, president ; John
Creech, vice-president; Duncan McBryde,
secretary, and Fred Fleagle, treasurer.

Mr. Boyd W. Hargraves,
Chattanooga Lawyer,
Speaks at “Y” Vespers

Prominent Lawyer Comes to Davidson
After Speaking at Charlotte
Y. M. C. A. Mass Meeting

BETTIS LEADS SERVICE
Mackorell

Carlton Chapman Sings;
and Thompson Lead in Prayer

Mr. Boyd W. Hargraves, prominent Chat-
tanooga lawyer and past president of the
Southern Evangelical Association, was the
speaker at vespers last Sunday.

Charlie Bettis presided over the service
and, after the singing of several hymns, read
the scripture text, taken from St. John
14:1-12, “Let not your heart be troubled, ye
believe in God, believe also in me.....
Prayers were_then offered by Jake Mack-
orell and Leslie Thompson, after which a
vocal solo was rendered by Carlton Chap-
man. Immediately following this the leader
introduced the speaker.

Mr. Hargraves began his talk by explain-
ing how he had been impressed with the
magnitude of life when he finished college
and really came in contact with the world

at large. He stated that he was surprised at |.

the number of people who didn’t believe in
Christ and at the unlimited crime and evil
with which he was thrown. He described
that he, as a lawyer, had seen much of the
wicked and malicious devices of men, of

which he had now seen perhaps too much. |

Going further, he said that he knew it
wasn’t as easy to be a Christian in these
times of such vices, but that it was truly
a man-sized task. Nor did Christ live an
easy life, for in His individual experiences
we find worse hardships than we ever face
today. And it is the individual experiences
of Jesus that are more vivid to us than any
sermon He ever made, he went on. The
Chattanooga lawyer then pointed out that
we should strive to be more like the Christ
in all our individual acts of every-day life,
not forgetting of course the great teachings
of His sermons.

“T believe that the religion of the average
so-called Christian today is just a joke in
the forest and a farce,” he stated, and, pro-
ceeding further, he said that the non-Chris-
tian must see the Christ in the Christian.
Christ would have us teach and show by

(Continued on page 3)

Scabbard and Blade

The regular meeting of Scabbard
and Blade, national honorary military
fraternity, was held last Wednesday,
February 15th, in the local club room
located on Elm Row.

The main purpose of this meeting
was the initiation of Major John T.
Rhett into the fraternity. Major Rhett,
who came to Davidson as Commander
of the R. O. T. C. unit located here,
was pledged during the early fall,
shortly after his arrival. Nothing else
of great importance took place at this
time, except that a brief business meet-
ing was held following the initiation,
during which matters of a general na-
ture were taken up.

At a call: meeting he'd Friday, Feb-
ruary 10th, four Seniors who likewise
had been pledged last fall were taken
in as members. These Seniors, all ex-
cept one of whom are cadet first lieu-
tenants of the Davidson battalion, are
H. D. Cashion, W. W. Seymour, George
Neal, and Gene Cannon. Cashion is a
cadet captain.

Journalistic Fraternity
Issues Bids to New Men

Fifteen Men Receive Invitations
Recent Reorganization of Delta
Pi Kappa

The following students of Davidson College
have just been extended invitations to join
Delta Pi Kappa, honorary journalistic fra-
ternity :

Lyman Clardy, Talladega, Ala.; Jack Wil-
liams, Waycross, Ga.; Odi Casali, Welch, W.
Va.; Alex Schenck, Charlotte; W. M.
Thompson and W. T. Thompson, Richmond,
Va.; Jim White, Graham; Lyne Gamble,
Greenville, Miss.; Jack Goodykoontz, Blue-
field, W. Va.; Mack Manson, Jacksonville,
Fla.; W. C. Thompson, Round Pond, Maine;
Arthur Ross, Asheboro; Reeves Pope, Tal-
ladega,_Ala.; Woodrow Calligan, Wades-
boro; Lanier Pratt, Louisville, Ky.

Delta Pi Kappa was founded at Davidson
in 1917 and has been seen as a rather active
honorary fraternity since its founding. Re-
cently, however, due to several causes, it
had become somewhat inactive and the is-
suing of these bids marks a reorganization.

Its purpose is to take as its members those
students who are active in the journalistic
feature of the extra-curricula side of the
campus life. The scope of its members in-
cludes mostly those who have advanced in
either of the three major student publica-
tions, namely, “Quips and Cranks,” the col-
lege annual; “The Davidsonian,” student
weekly, and “The Yowl,” the college’s hu-
morous magazine.

The list of the recent pledges given above
consists of Juniors and Seniors who are ed-
itors, managing editors, or associate editors
—-of-the-publications:

After reorganization has completely taken
place and things are settled, these men will
all be initiated into membership, the date
being indefinite at present.

Neophytes Initiated by
Ten Social Fraternities

Seventy-eight Pledges Are Taken Into
the Various Lodges on the
Campus

Within the last two weeks, and within the
near future, the ten national social fraterni-
ties on the Davidson campus will have initi-
ated their pledges of last fall. Last fal! there
were 110. men in all pledged; 16 of these
were upperclassmen. Most of these will be,
or have been, initiated. But due to various
uncertainties and to the differing dates of
initiation held by the various fraternities,
it is impossible to give an-accurate account
of the men taken in. The following is a list
of the recent initiates:

Beta Theta Pi: Alfred L. Bulwinkle, Jake
Balsley, Jr., William A, Coffin, Edmund
Johnson, Robert B. Richardson, Thomas
L. Ross, Cole L. Windham, Donald W. Win-
ter, Andrew M. Cunningham.

Pi Kappa Alpha: W. M. Archer, F. L.
Cade, C. Hamrick, W. T. Johnson, A. Kuhn,
G. S. Walker, Samuel Milton.

Kappa Alpha: Osmond Barringer, Jr., Wil-
liam C. Cannon, Thomas E, Downie, Regi-
nald L. Harris, Samuel M, Hutaff, joseph
RB, Johnston, Harvey E. McConnell, Edward
L. Whitton, William F. Bowman.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Addison G. Bre-
nizer, W. Lamont Brown, Robert D. Dodge,

B.

R. H. Evans, Thomas M. Marchant, E. R
Matthews, William A. Merchant, J. L.
Plunket, Mark’ H. Senter, A. W. Shuford.

Kappa Sigma: Joseph L. Dees, Lloyd M.
Grimes, Robert B. Lindsay, John F. Loftin,
Robert P. Morrow, Jr. John R. Pearce.
Lewis T. Purnell Charles M.. Thompson.

Phi Gamma Delta: William C. Branton,
Richard M. Cann, James H. Glass, Junius
B. Goslen, Jr., Paul Y. Harlan, John R.
Hayworth, William R, Taber, Jerome Taylor,
Edwin C. Wooten, David P. McLain, Peyton
Montgomery.

Pi Kappa Phi: Mitchell H. Arrowsmith,
Robert E. Tissue, John G. Willis, John C.
Miller.

Theta Upsilon Omega: john D,
William J. Fraley, Thomas I’. Neal,

(Continued on page 3)

Davidson Rifle Team
Holds Match by Mail

The Davidson rifle team had a correspond-
ence match this week with some of the best
school teams in the country. These schools
were the University of Wisconsin, University
of California, University of Cincinnati,
Kemper Military School, New York Military
Academy, Lehigh University, and University
of Dayton. Kemper has for many years ruled
the roost in prep school realms and Cincin-
nati has one of the best college teams in
the country. The other schools also have en-
viable records.

The scores of the*other schools had not
been received when The Davidsonian went
to press. The five highest men-on the local
team were B. O. Simpson, G. L. Green, G.
B. Cathey, P..F. Brown, and E. T. McCon-
nell.

Dolan,
Frank

Trustees Hold Regular

| Meeting; Hear Report

| of Officers of College
|

| Lingle and Jackson Tell of Financial
| Condition and Enrollment for
| the Year

BALANCED BUDGET SEEN

Expenses Are Reduced But Number of
Students Remains High

The Board of Trustees of Davidson Col-
lege met in their regular February session
last Wednesday to hear the reports of Presi-
dent Lingle @nd Treasurer F. L. Jackson,
and to transact routine business.

The reports showed the school to be in
good condition financially, and that the num-
ber of students is rather large, considering
the size of most college student bodies as
compared with their enrollment before the
depression,

Dr. Lingle’s statement on the meeting fol-
lows:

“The Board met Wednesday, the 15th.
There was an unusually full attendance. Of
the fifty members there were about forty

‘)present. The spirit of the meeting seemed

to be unusually fine. The trustees reviewed
the reports of the president and the treas-
urer and expressed themselves as gratified
at the progress of the college during the
past year. The treasurer’s report showed a
well-balanced budget and indicates, that.
when the financial year closes, April 30,
there will be no deficit, and perhaps a com-
fortable little balance to begin the new year.

The presidents’s report indicated that 631
students had been registered for this session,
which is°a little above the average for the
last five years, The usual rontine of busi-
ness. in connection with the reports of the
president and treasurer was: transacted.

A committee was authorized to have paint-
ed for the college a portrait of the late Mr.
J. B. Duke, who founded the Duke Endow-
ment, of which Davidson is one of the bene-
ficiaries. The faculty committee of grounds
and buildings was authorized to repair or
remove the old Louisiana residence which is
located across Main Street from: Shearer
Hall.

Dr. Lingle, in his report, also told the
trustees of the efforts now being made to

(Continued on page 3)

Quips and Cranks to Be
More Modest Yearbook

McCallie and Thompson Co-operating
in Producing This Year’s Edition
serious” reverses. that
business

Despite the rather
the ‘editorial and staffs of the
“Quips and Cranks” have had to meet with
and overcome, they are able to report re-
markable success for the 1933 annual, and
acclaim it as ‘“ a modest book which ought
to represent Davidson as it is.”

The note struck by the designers is one
of simplicity and straightforwardness; fur-
thermore, there is no evident theme through-
out the book. Many of the elaborate details
of former annuals have been excluded in
order to keep within the limits set by
changed conditions, yet nothing that the ed-
itors consider vital to the high quality of
Davidson's yearbooks has been sacrificed. As
contrasted to last year’s edition, pages with
single colors will replace the many-colored.
From cover to cover, the book will be thirty
to forty pages smalfer, largely dié"t6 the
failure of the student body to have pictures
taken. This year, 350 pictures appear; last
year, 450—a disastrous difference of a hun-
| dred!

Additions made to the annual include an
| entirely new section, and a fuller and more
|complete athletic section. The Wildcat teams,
{through their magnificent spirit and sports-
|manship, deservedly receive this recognition
accorded them thereby.

The business manager has approximately
$1,500 less to work with than last year, ac-

|counted ‘for by the fewer number of pictures

taken, the failure of the school to appro-
priate the usual amount, and the tremendous
decline in the number of ‘merchants to ad-
vertise.

That the pages of the 1933 “Quips and
Cranks” will honorably and ‘honestly reflect
the life peculiar to the Davidson campus is

(Continued on page 6)

