THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 22, 1933

[ 2DITORS VIEW FAMED WINDOW

The Last Supper
Window

By JACK WALLIAMS, Jr.

Among the interesting places visited by
the National Editorial Association during
its convention in Los Angeles was Memorial
Court of Honor at Forest Lawn Memorial
Park in Glendale. Here is enshrined the
famous Moretti recreation in stained glass
of Leonardo da Vinci’s great painting “The
Last Supper.” More than 200,000 persons
have viewed the window since it was in-
stalled a few months ago. Created from
Leonardo’s own sketches, the window was
seven years in the making. Flanking it on
either side are reproductions of Michel-
angelo’s greatest sculptures.

As one enters through the Cathedral Cor-
ridor, the eye is drawn toward the row of
beautiful statues that proclaim the genius
of Canova, Thorvaldsen and other great
sculptors: At the end of the Corridor was
the winged angelic figure, “In Memoria,”
an-original by. Luppi, Italy’s greatest living
sculptor. Turning to the left, one becomes
aware of the great radiance at the end cf
the long vista which is “The Last Supper”
Window.

So gloriously does “The Last Supper”
Window dominate its setting that one does
not notice at first the architectural splendor
where it is enshrined. It is the only place
where all of Michelangelo’s greatest works
are gathered together. Here were exact re-
productions of the immortal Medici “Madon-
na,” the tender “Pieta,” the symbolical me-
morials “Day and Night” and “Twilight and
Dawn,” and, near the entrance, the gigantic
“Moses,” the only full-sized, exact repro-
duction of the “greatest masterpiece of the
world’s greatest sculptor, Michelangelo.”

“The Last Supper” shows a scene of im-
mense movement.*Jesus has just spoken the
fateful words: “I tell you that one of you

shall betray me.” All the apostles are agi- |

tated and Judas, in his agitation, has tipped
over the salt cellar. Jesus only is calm and
unmoved. Leonardo da Vinci said: “I do not
finish the face of Christ—no one can finish
that.” é

Each figure lives within its own charac-

ter and they draw back while Jesus re-|

mains alone with his sorrow. Each figure
appears worried and Jesus is the center
of the painting for amid the turmoil that
surrounds Him, He alone is still.

“The Last Supper” Window is’ constantly
changing. God’s sunlight is the only light
that illumines the figures (which are twice
life-size) and each hour heaven paints a
new picture. A fleecy cloud crosses the path
-- of the sun and the picture softens and sub-
dues. The sun breaks forth and the paint-
ing radiates in splendor and glorious color.
At twilight the shadows; lengthen and the
picture is dimmed, the apostles seem to
leave, one: by: one, until at last only the
face of Jesus appears—calm, majestic, but
so alone. Surely ‘this great painting has a
spiritual message and any person is made
a better man or woman from having seen it.

ROMANTIC NEW ORLEANS

Let us jump from the West Coast to the
heart of the Southland. Returning by ro-
mantically old and yet modern New Or-
leans, we visited the Shedds who used to live
in Waycross. They greeted us with charac-
teristic hospitality and took us first to Au-
dubon Park which is an extremely beautiful

Ti spot with its live oaks and tropical foliage.

Among the colleges and universities seen

were Loyola, Newcomb and Tulane.
Jackson Square is the heart of old New

Orleans. The Cabildo facing the square is

lwhere the transfer of the Louisiana Pur-

chase occurred. The Pontalba Apartments,
built by the Duke of Pontalba, was where
the old aristocracy used to live. An artist
colony is now housed in these buildings.

One of the quaintest streets in the Old.

Quarter was La Rue St. Pierre, overhung
with iron balconies. Other pl&ces of inter-
est visited were the historic St. Louis Cathe-
dral, the oldest one still standing in Amer-
ica, and Paul Morphy House, the home of
the great chess player. The old Absinthe
House was the haunt of the Lafitte Pirates
and also the birthplace of the famed Mardi
Gras. The house on Chartres Street built
by Dominique You wa’ pointed out also.
He was the leader of a band of conspira-
tors who planned to rescue Napoleon from
St. Helena.

In the Italian Quarter we stopped and
had a dish of spimone and a cassada. Vis-
iting the great wharfs, we saw them load-
ing bananas on the ships to be shipped all
over the world. New Orleans is the second
port in size in the United States. Canal
Street is of course the principal business
thoroughfare and brings out both the mod-
ern and the ancient charm of this great
city.

Following the Canal out to the Southern
Yacht Club situated on Lake Pontchatrain,
in the afternoon we passed scores of beau-
tiful boats returning from a week-end of
sailing. Their great number and size proved
that New Orleans goes in for yachting in
a big way. Returning to the city, one passes
old cemeteries that are unique among burial
grounds.

SPANISH CONSUL

During dinner that night the new Con-
sul from Peru, Dr. Vasquez, and his wife,
dropped by for a visit. They met each other
at the International House at Columbia
University in New York City and married
after an acquaintance of eleven days. Mrs.
Vasquez is an American girl and speaks no
Spanish. He is of course a Spaniard, but
is learning English—at, least the love words
—under his charming wife’s direction.

I talked to him in Spanish and do you
know that man is a Ph.D. and cannot un-
derstand his-own language! They are very
happy and I think the universal language
of music brought them together for the

first piece of furniture purchased for their
new home was a grand piano.

That night we visited the French Market
after midnight for a cup of coffee. This
spot is hallowed by age and romance. Sit-
ting down at a coffee stall with pewter
sugar bowls on the marble counters, we
saw the huge coffee urns and baskets where
the crullers were kept. Three crisp crullers
were served with each cup of coffee. Belles
and beaux come here after the theater in
evening dress and perching on the high
stools, their feet in the sawdust, sip the de-
licious coffee.

Even the walls were filled with romance
and the aroma of the coffee arouses in one’s
mind the haunting memories of days gone
by. To this place came Andrew Jackson,
Henry Clay, -Thackery, and Jenny Lend, to
sip this coffee blended only as French Cre-
oles can blend it.

It doesn’t hurt you and the natives drink
from 10 to 15 cups a day. How interesting
it was to watch them make it! They piled
the coffee in a strainer—a tablespoonful to
each cup—and then when it became heated
poured in two tablespoons of boiling water.
It became soaked in ten minutes and was
ready for serving.

MARKET PLACE

Next the market was visited. Wagons
were arriving with produce and the venders
were doing a good business even at such
an early hour in the morning. In the fish
market were salmon, scarlet crabs, shrimp,
croakers, pompanos, Spanish mackerel and
bullfrogs. Spanish moss was placed in the
crab boxes so they tangled their claws and
could not es¢ape. Since then the city com-
mission has doomed the old French market
and it gave way toa “modern, electrolyzed”
plant. Notwithstanding the advantages of
such a plant, we were sorry .to hear of it
and like to think of it just as it used to be.

The next morning after a swim in the
pool we visited some of the old antique
shops in the French Quarter. The sweeping
charm of old antiquity is still preserved

there and it was delightful to explore them
at random. Rare old jewels, furniture, mir-
rors and other priceless objects of art were
seen. :

The women of the old aristocracy in New
Orleans who have experienced financial re-
verses come down to these sheps after clos-
ing hours and list their jewels. Priceless
objects may be secured for a few picayunes,
but the shop keeper never reveals the name
of the unfortunate owner.

The Arts and Crafts Club is the ren-
dezvous_for_artists. Le Petit Theatre Du
Vieux Carre is one of the first Little Theatre
movements in this country and it is housed
in a most picturesque building. The theatre
was entered by the loggia, whose doorway
was an adaptation of the old carriage en-
trances to the courtyards. This loggia served
as a passageway and also as an access to
the patio. The floor was of flagstones, and
the ceiling was dark, stained vine. There
was a large crystal chandelier hanging
from the ceiling and the walls were plain
with replica tapestries and at one end there
was an old chest from Verona.

The finishing touch was a dinner at An-
toine’s which is the most famous of French

.| restaurants. Never have I tasted such food

and the price was reasonable compared to
American cafes.

This is the last article I shall write in
attempting to describe the trip to California
while attending the convention of the Na-
tional Editorial Association. Aside from vis-
iting many interesting places and cities, as
I look back I feel that the most enjoyable
part of the trip to me was the one month
of constant association with my Dad.

DEBATING TEAM ENDS
SOUTHEASTERN TRIP

(Continued from page 1)
6. They will debate on the same subject.
The debate with Haverford University will
be an Oxford plan debate. No decision will
be rendered.

They're
Milder

and yet

Che

© 1933 Liccstr & Myzrs Tosacco Co,

You get what you

want, and you don’t have to

take what you don’t want

It’s like this: You don’t want
a strong, rank cigarette; you
don’t want one that’s tasteless.
You want one that lets you
know that you are smoking, but
you don’t want one that’s bitey.

Chesterfields are milder...
and yet They Satisfy.

stertiel

the ctgarelle Weal MILDER

the cigarelle Lhal TASTES BETTER
