THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 5, 1933

“Macbeth” Presented
Here by Noted Cast

Last Friday night in Chambers Auditorium
the famous Shakespeare Players gave a
presentation of “Macbeth.” The cast, com-
posed of three ladies and seven men, put
on the entire play with the aid of a few
local “extras.”

The two leading parts, Macbeth and Lady
Macbeth, were played by Mr. James Hen-
drickson and Miss Claire Bruce. The other
parts were accomplished by changes of cos-
tume.

The student body of Davidson was very
fortunate to be able to see this company.
These players have toured with outstand-
ing performances in forty-one states, play-

ing various Shakespearean works in the’
principal educational institutions of the
country.

Every player in the company has had va-
ried theatrical experience, from that of a
clown to that of a student of American
Academy of Dramatic Arts. Mr. Hendrick-
son and Miss Bruce have established them-
selves as two of the leading exponents of
the classic drama on the American stage.
In addition, all of the cast proved to be
polished actors and rendered a most
quent performance.

elo-

Several Davidson students . co-operated
with the company in filling as extras. Arthur
Haake, Wills Hollingsworth, Bill McIlwinen,
Mills Taylor, and Gordon Wood took such
parts as banquet guests and passers-by. Off-
stage noises and other sound effects were
furnished by these students.

The Shakespeare Players came to the
campus as guests of the Red and Black
Masquers, and after the performance sev-
eral of the actors were entertained by a
number of the social fraternities.

NOTICE
Have your shoes rebuilt at the
DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP

Work done while you wait.
Cc. A. KENNEDY, Proprietor

Sanaa

iDeputation to Go to
| Kannapolis Thursday

Thursday a deputation from the Davidson
y. M. C. A. will go to Kannapolis to help
in a pre-Easter, city-wide campaign. The
campaign is under the supervision of Mr.
D. G. McLauren, but will be furthered
through the aid of the deputation.

The deputation consisting of John How-
ard, Leslie Thompson, and the Quartet, will
take part in a supper meeting Thursday
night. At this time they will meet with the
Hi-Y group and the Torch Bearers as the
opening meeting of their four C’s campaign.
These two groups will be the nucleus for
the work which will extend to all the city

—S

schools of Kannapolis.

Saturday, as a part of the same program,
the second half of the Passion Play will be
given on the screen, The campaign will
close Sunday afternoon with a large mass
meeting at which Professor Foreman will
be the principal speaker. :

Upon being interviewed about the mat-
ter, McNeill issued the following _ state-
ment:

“T take my impeachment by the Phi in all
good nature. I realize that we all, make
serious blunders while in public offi¢e--My
mistake, however, was one of over-eager-
ness to serve the best interests of our be-
loved society. I realize that the society, and
especially Mr. Rachal, our esteemed presi-
dent, is due a very humble apology, and I
shall make this apology at the next meet-
ing of our society.”

It not believed that the effectiveness
of the society's work in the future will be
in the least impaired by this internal rift.
A program of outstatiding interest has been
arranged for the next meeting.

1s

Some Come Sooner, Some Later

Eventually ALL
Johnson’s Barber Shop

W. S. HENDERSON

NEXT DOOR TO POSTOFFICE

fa ta
TOBACCOS CANDY
STUDENT SUPPLIES
FOUNTAIN SERVICE ;

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

Richmond,

Virginia

B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., LL.D., President

A graduate of Davidson and of Union studying abroad writes:

“There ‘are able scholars here whose books are known and read
all over the religious world. None of them can surpass ‘some of our
professors at Union as teachers, and none’of them can challenge a
student to joyous, practical Christianity’ as did our professors there.”

“DRUGS”

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

Make Our Store Your Store
Student Supplies

WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.

“SODAS”

“SUNDRIES”

‘‘PREFERRED PRI

ollege
‘Printing

Magazines,

6,600 Square

Catalogs,
Handbooks, Etc.
Nothing too targe or small for our plant—Let us serve you

A. M. MANSON, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE

Always Best

STANDARD PRINTING CO. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

NTING SERVICE’?

Programs, Newspapers,

Bulletins,
Engraved Cards and

nvitations.

Feet of Floor Space Devoted to Printing,
Exclusively.

Program Is Given by
Davidson Music Club

On the night of March 28th, Davidson mu-
sic lovers gathered in Chambers Auditorium
to attend what proved to be one of the most
enjoyable and one of the most interesting
musical programs that;has been given here
in some time. The Davidson Music Club pre-
sented Portia Jenkens, a gifted young col-
ored girl, who amazed, even astounded the
audience by her skill and artistry as a
pianist. Miss Jenkens was supported by Mrs.
C. W. Perry, who sang two beautiful num-
bers, and also by the male quintet from
Johnson C. Smith University in Charlotte.
The program was unusual, in fact, almost
revolutionary in that it was given entirely
by negroes, yet one could not help feeling
that everyone present went away a far bet-
ter person in regard to his conception of
race differences.

The program opened with Miss Jenkens
playing one of Haydn’s Sonatas. This num-
bers was remarkably well chosen for it re-
vealed in a marked way the ability of the
young pianist. She played with a masterly
skill and technique and displayed interpreta-
tive qualities of the first rank. She seemed
to be showing her audience that she was |
mistress of the situation and that they need
have no fear that far as she’ was con-
cerned the program would be a_ success.
Mrs. C. W. Perry next sang “What's in the
Air Today,” by Robert Eden. Her voice was
clear and mellow and showed remarkable
quality and range. The quintet then sang
the twelfth chapter of Ecclesiastes and fol-
lowed by singing an arrangement of Rach-
maninoff's famous “Prelude in C Minor.”

The fourth number was a group of three
piano compositions: “Pavan,” by Sharpe;
“Solfegietto,” by Bach, and “The Second
Mazurka,” by Sain Saens. Sharpe’s ‘‘Pavon”
was a melody that captivated the audience.
The delicate: theme that kept insisting on
coming back into the composition together
with the powerful passages in the lower
register of the piano made it a number not
soon to be forgotten. The Bach “Solfegietto”
was a technical study designed chiefly to
display skill in playing and Miss Jenkens
utilized it in a wonderful way to show her
own ability. The “Second Mazurka” was
one of the tuneful creations so characteristic
of Saint Saens. Denza’s “A May Morning”
was rendered by Mrs. Perry in just as ad-
mirable a way as her first *number had been.
The sixth group included two negro com-
positions, spiritual, “Nobody -Knows de
Trouble I See.” and Dett’s. ever-popular
“Juba,” with its characteristic rhythm and
harmony. By this time the program was
masterfully marching on to its brilliant con-
clusion and the quinet as their last contribu-
tion sang two spirituals, followed by “Joshua
Vit de Battle of Jericho.” As encores, they
gave “Little David Play on our Harp,” and
a third spiritual, the name of avhich was
not announced, Miss Jenkens had saved her
most brilliant number for the last to form
in a fitting way the climax of the evening.
Mendelssohn’s “Mid Summer Night’s Dream”
was played in a manner that left nothing
to be desired. The familiar strains of the
Wedding March floated out to spell-bound
hearers. The power, the beauty, the artistry,
the creative’ genius of the great Mendelssohn
fittingly closed an evening of superb music,
an evening long to be remembered in the
minds of all who were. present.

so

a
é

Dr. Lingle Speaks at
Important Ceremony

In a line with the many duties accorded
the president of a denominational college,
our head, Dr. Walter I. Lingle, finds it his
privilege at many times to speak at neigh-
boring churches and colleges. It wasat a
service of this type that he was honored
Yast Sunday when he preached at the First
Presbyterian Church in Durham. The occa-
sion was the ordination and installation of
the elders and deacons. This is an important
event in the church calendar and Dr. Lingle
was greatly honored in being chosen as the
speaker.

A number of distinguished laymen of the
church attended this service in Durham.
Among these were President Graham of
Chapel Hill, Dean Bradshaw, also of the
University of North Carolina; Judge Bryson
of Duke, and Dr. J. B] Wright, president,

Raleigh.

This service, according to Dr. Lingle, was
both impressive and beautiful, and he feels
that he was greatly privileged in being
asked to speak at an occasion so important
to the life of the church.

Among his engagements along the same
line in the near future, Dr. Lingle is to
speak on April 10 at the chapel service at
Catawba College. He is expecting to take
as the subject of his talk, “The Ministry as
a Life Work,” and will discuss matters and

situations relating to this theme.

W. C. Pressly and Mr. G. K. Hudson of |

Silver Screen

Wednesday, April 5—“Pick Up”

This is a picture with a good cast, but
an average story. George Raft, whom some
consider the successor to Valentino, is the
hero, and Sylvia Sydney is the heroine.
Good acting in a mediocre plot. Average.

Thursday, April 6—“The Mind Reader”
Warren William gives us another splendid
characterization, this time of a mind reader.
He lives his fake life but when he wants
to make the girl he loves believe that he is
not faking, he fails. Constance Cummings
is the girl, and she is good. A good picture.

Friday, April 7—“Rasputin and the Empress”

This is one of the great pictures. It ranks
with the best of all time. While not histor-
ically exact in some places, it is most illum-
inating. Splendid acting by the “Royal Fam-
ily,” Ethel, Lionel, and John Barrymore. In
fact, it is acting of the finest sort, They
are all three at their best, and it is said
John rises to the greatest heights of his
career. This is absolutely one picture you
don’t want to miss. It is indeed one really
great and grand picture. See it by all means.

Saturday, April 8—“Fast Workers” and “The
Mysterious Rider”

Saturday brings a double-header program.
The first picture includes: John Gilbert, al-
ways good, and Robert Armstrong.) Mae
Clarke is the feminine interest. The! great
lover Gilbert is out of role ft is good
nevertheless. He has a good t backing
him. In the other picture we have a first-
class westerner, with a cast above the aver-

age. It is taken from the story of the same].

woman by Zane.Grey and it is one of his
best stories. The picture should be good.

Monday, April 10—“Sweepstakes”

Lionel Barrymore, one of the greatest
character actors the stage or screen,
gives another splendid characterization. It
is a genuine picture of life that is portrayed
here. Passions of love, hate, and chance are
characterized by splendid acting. Lionel Bar-
rymore is at his best. The beatttfiul Gloria
Stuart in the cast.

on

is also

‘verdict

Tuesday, April 11—“Bondage”
No dope was available at the time of the
writing of this column,

The editor of the Illinois Baptist can be
humorous as may be seen from the following |

article, “How to Preserve a Husband,” |
found in his editorial columns:
‘Be careful of your selection. Do not |

choose too young. Take only such varieties
that have been reared in a good moral at-

mosphere. When once decided upon and se-
lected let that part remain forever settled
and give your individual attention to the

preparation for domestic use. A good many
husbands are spoiled by mismanagement in
cooking and are not tender and good. Some
women keep them constantly in hot-water:
Some let them freeze by carelessness and
indifference. Some keep them in a stew by
irritating ways. Others roast them. Some
keep them in a pickle all their lives. It can-
not be supposed that any husband will be
tender and good, managed in this way, but
they are really quite nice when properly
treated. Even poor varieties may be made
sweet, tender and good by garnishing them
with patience, well sweetened with smiles
and flavored with kisses. Then wrap them
in a mantle of charity, keep warm with a
steady fire of domestic devotion and serve
with peaches and cream, When thus pre-
pared they will keep forever.”

Editor Waller is careful not to venture

an opinion on how to keep wives sweet.

MOCK TRIAL FEATURES
PHI SOCIETY PROGRAM

(Continued from page 3)

appointed by the chair to'constitute a com-
mittee to formulate rules for the trial. Wit-
nesses were ‘called by the prosecution to
prove that the defendant had made the
aforesaid request to the president, and a
witness was called on behalf of the defense
to show that the request had been made
in a joking manner. The hall returned a
censoring McNeill and asking him
to apologize to the society.

A man going down a street in Chicago,
came to a taxidermist’s shop and stopped
long enough to criticize some of its wares.
Scrutinizing an owl, he said, “That owl is
not stuffed right; its head is not on right,
the body is not poised right, the feathers are
not fixed right; and if I could not stuff an
owl better than that I would go out of the
taxidermist -business.” Just then the owl
moved. He had criticized a live owl.—Ex.

Mother. was very annoyed.

“Bertie,” she said, “I thought I told you
not to play with your tin soldiers on a Sun-
day. It’s very wrong.” i

“That’s all right, mother,” replied the boy.
“On Sunday, I call them the Salvation
Army.”—Ex.

Big Sister—“Oh, why doesh’t the baby
stop crying? I don’t know what to do with
her.”

Little Sister—Didn’t the directions come
with her?”—Selected.

The animal-cracker factory in our neigh-
borhood blew up, and it rained cats and
dogs for hours.—Judge.

COMMENCEMEN

and Then

GRADUATION

a SENIOR’S desire is to
have a lasting remembrance
These are
brought about by college ties,

formalities and . . .~’.

of college life.

Commencement
Invitations

See E. O. Guerrant
A. M. Manson*

a
o-

EAS

Let Us Help You

_ Get Ready For

IDEY'S
DAVIDSON
SHOP

1s

