THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 26, 1933

7

Prince of Siam Resigns
As Student of Princeton

Princeton, N. J.—(IP)—It was quite an ex-
perience while it lasted, and not a few on
the Princeton campus are ‘really sorry to
see it over with; but all things considerea
it appears to be better that Prince Prasob
Nom Chow Sukhavsti of Siam is no longer
an undergraduate at Princeton University.

His royal highness quietly resigned from
the university last week, which is about the
best way the university authorities could
put it. f

He had cut rather a wide swath here,
what with having named the King of Siam
as the person who would pay all his debts,
and as Dean Cristian Gauss diplomatically
related:

“The prince was an oriental. He did not
understand. No disciplinary action was
taken. He was told he was not doing well
here, he was not doing himself any good
and he resigned.” «

The most immediate result of the prince’s
departure will be the reopening of the Cam-
pus Club, of which he had been an active
member, under more subdued management.

The club was closed after a series of
dances and parties which-had this good old
Christian-town talking. Rumor had it that
there was drinking of beverages more potent
than 3.2 per cent, and a jolly good time
with young girls leaving at late hours.

Scientist Says Earth Is
Over Million Years Old

Chicago—(IP)—Whether or not you are
one of those who takes stock in the theory
that the earth and the heavens were as-
sembléd in seven days, some five or six thou-
sand years ago, you will be interested in
knowing that the latest scientific computa-
tion of the age of the earth sets it at
1,460,000,000 years.

This. may be one or two million years off,
the scientists admit, but then, what’s a mil-
lion years?

The latest answer to the age-old question
was found in the deep rock of the Black
Hills of South Dakota.

Dr. Sharat K. Roy of the Field Museum

of Natural History is authority for the new-
est figure.

“Only recently,” he said, “was discovered
a Process in nature that takes place in di-|
rection only and does not change its rate!
of action.

“Tt is the process in the atomic disintegra-
tion of various radio-active elements con-
tained in certain rocks and minerals, It has
given excellent results in measuring the age
of the earth. .

“A basis for the system of computation
is the known rate at which uranium and
thorium, parental elements of radio-active
minerals, transforms through a succession of |
stages.”

Deep in the rock formations of the Black
Hills the~scientists measured the extent to
which that mineral transformation .had pro-
gressed—just as animal life has progressed
through the millions of years.

They studied particularly the development
of a substance known as isotype of lead, an
offshoot of uranium. Fresh and primary de-
posits of that mineral were found to pro-
vide great weight as an indicator of age.

A few weeks of higher mathematics and
the scientists had the answer—1,460,000,000)
years have passed since the earth became!
cool: Nobody knows how imany  millions|
elapsed before that time.

which will make them stand for the truth,’

watever the cost.”

Masquers to Put On
Second Play of Year

‘One of Oscar Wilde’s Best Plays to be
Presented

The Red and Black Masquers are to pre-
sent their spring play in about two weeks.
This is the second venture into play-acting
this year, beginning with a group of one-
act plays last fall. The play is one of Oscar
Wilde’s best, namely, “The Importance of
Being Ernest.” It is a very clever play and
the dialogue exceedingly brilliant. Ed Han-
cock, president of the club, is directing the
production. The play runs smoothly and in
the second and third acts some very sur-
prising complications arise, thus making a
show which will be thoroughly enjoyable to
the audience.

The cast includes five male and four fe-
male characters. The four female parts are
well filled by ladies in town.” Kalista Hood,
Adele Arbuckle, Miss Orrie Steele, and Mrs.
E. J. Erwin have excellently taken these
parts. Wills Hollingsworth, Nicholas Moss,
and Gordon Wood are well cast in the lead
male parts, while Roger Riley and Bill John-
son will assist with smaller parts. Professor
Erwin, the faculty advisor for the Red and
Plack Masquers, has helped very much with
the play.

Practice has been in progress for about
three weeks and the players have progresséd
excellently. They still have much to do; but
nearly everything.-points to a splendid per-
formance of this ambitious play by the
Masquers.

Little Theatre to Soon
Present “Little Women”

The Little Theatre in Charlotte, an organ-
ization that has done much in keeping alive
the spoken drama in that community, has
announced for its next production Louisa
M. Alcott’s immortal play, “Little Women.”
This American classic was published in 1868
and some years ago it was adapted to play
form by Marion DeForrest and produced in
New York and London. Both Alice Brady
and. Katharine Cornell appeared in these pro-
ductions and the distinguished actress Ann
Harding will soon appear in the moving pic-
ture version.

The play as produced in Charlotte will be
done in costumes of the 1860 period and a
most capable cast will make up the roster
of players.

“Little Women” is a great family play, and
one which parents will delight in taking the
children to see and it should be a very pop-
ular favorite among the adolescents of high
school age.

There will be three performances of “Little
Women” in Charlotte at the Ninth Street
playhouse on May 28th and 29th, with a
matinee at 2:30 on the afternoon of the 29th.
The public will be admitted at the reduced
price of 50 cents for all performances.

Men Make Applications
As Managers of Store

For-the past few days applications for the
managership of the. Students’ Store have
been coming in rather slowly. There are
at the present time only about six or eight
of these applications in.

Only men of the rising Senior class are

leligible for these offices. After all applica-
ltions are in, each one is regarded carefully
| by a board who elects the managers for the
/coming year. The men who are planning

President of LaFayette
Rates College Politics
lon applying for these places have been asked

rape uioci alo ee Heya to hand in their applications to Brooke Allen

DOP SLAR ; My Sear ii z moby 2 lor Leslie Thompson. Promptness on the part

of Dr. William Mather Lewis, president of| : ; ;

Tafaverte. Goll hiefly b He all of the men applying will be greatly appre-
Bet eced Yeager eu: co ee! ciated by the two retiring managers, Allen

the courses in political science, the lowest) | 4 Thompson; ahd by ithe board ae. well
+a? . . ’ ’
forms of politics are practiced in actual came because they want to elect the managers for

pus life. | - ji

the coming year 1933-34 as soon as possible.
“The professor who recently told a student| As aes ee aieciedetoy Hesavclacesiare
Sugience that the Hone: toh better political) | stworthy and should have some inclina-

conditions .in this country lay in. more Cole ion toward running a business. It is quite
lege men going into politics was wrong,

i ; lan honor to become a manager, and anyone
LUO OEE /in the rising Senior class who is interested

“There are many college graduates in our,
politics today, but that means nothing if)
their training has not been ethical as well
as intellectual. Fine political values cannot
be taught solely through courses in civil gov-
ernment, international law and the rest, val-|
uable as they are, but through the applica-|
tion by the individual of eternal justice and)
high-mindedness in every day affairs.

“Acquiescence and participation by stu-
dents in crooked campus politics, rivalling in)
low ideals the worst in ward politics, will
never enable our universities to produce great
political leadership.

“The creation of. an appreciation of real
political values in the minds of students and
their application to active situations in the
university life is essential to the improve-
Ment in government.

“Through the zeal and example of their
teachers, students must breed the courage
.

in becoming a manager should turn in his
application immediately.

Myself

I have to live with myself, and so

I want to be fit for myself to know

Always to look myself straight in the eye

I don’t want to stand with the setting sun

And hate myseif for the things I’ve done.

I want to go out with my head erect;

I want to deserve all men’s respect;

But here in the struggle for fame and pelf,

I want to be able to like myself;

I don’t want to look at myself and know

That I’m a bluster and bluff and empty show.

IT never can fool myself and so

Whatever happens I want to be

Self-respecting and conscience-free.
—Author Unknown.

Alumni News

Henry Atwell Anderson received a fellow-
ship in Geology at the University of North
Carolina for next year. This fellowship car-
ries a stipend of $500. Anderson was of the
class of 19.

A great many of recent alumni attended
the Bowery Ball dances here last week-end,
Some of them were: Allen “Fuzzy” Gra-
ham, Greenville, S. C.; Croswell Ragin, Wil-
mington; Don King, Johnson City, Tenn.;
Joe Stevens, Welch, W. Va.; John O'Keefe,
Bluefield, W. Va.; “Buddy” Brooks, Blue-
field, W. Va.; “Dus” Enochs, Bluefield, W.
Va.; Carol Pitts, Rock Hill,.S. C.; Mutt Rod-
dey, Rock Hill, S. C.; Tom Gignilliat, Seneca,
S. C.; Scott Akers, Charlotte ;* Boyd Morris,
Greensboro; Robert Stowe, Belmont; Frank
Pierce, Bluefield, W. Va.; “Buster” Mat-
thews, Rock Hill, S. C.

Dr. Ben R. Lacy, ‘02, president of the
Union Theological Seminary in Richmond,
Va., visited the campus last week-end. He
spoke at the “Y” vespers and also preached
the morning and evening services at the local
church. Dr. Lacy was a Rhodes Scholar and
won many honors during his years in college.

Rufus Page, now attending N. C. State
College at Raleigh, has been quite active
since his entrance there this year. He is
taking the course in forestry and is engaged
in many outside activities. Mr. Page is
teaching a Sunday School class and has re-
cently organized a new Scout troop. He was
recently elected as one of the managing ed-
itors of the North Carolina Agriculturist, a
forestry paper, and completed, with the help
of Walton Smith, another Davidson alumnus,
the patrol leaders’ training school. Mr. Page
has also been quite active in the instruction
of life-saving among some of the students.

Alumni are welcomed to send in news or
information about other alumni. Address
alumni news to Jack Hellinger, Alumni Ed-
itor of The Davidsonian,. Davidson.

Eta Sigma Phi Holds

Initiation Ceremony

Alpha Mu Chapter of Eta Sigma Phi held
its annual initiation ceremonies last Monday
night, April 24. Those initiated were Pro-
fessor J. C. Bailey, R. T. Coit, ‘A. G, Bre-
nizer, Jr., Madison Armistead, H. B. John-
ston, Archie Coleman, W. C. Neill, Jr., Stuart
Henry, George Gullette, G. H. Brown, C. B.
Ross, W. B. Ravenel, and S. M. Hines.

The meeting was opened by the president,
Edward McNair, who acquainted the initi-
ates with the history of Eta Sigma Phi, He
then led in the initiation ritual, and con-
cluded with a few remarks as to the purpose
and ideals of Eta Sigma Phi with particular
regards to this chapter.

After the meeting there was an informal
social gathering, and refreshments were
served.

FORMAL INSTALLATION
OF NEW MEN IS HELD

(Continued from page 1)
letic Association to Willson. The latter, in
accepting this duty, promised, as an induce-
ment for more boys to come out for the
various athletic teams, to serve beer and
pretzels at the training tables.

Ed Guerrant, retiring Davidsonian editor,
then handed to Odi Casali, newly elected ed-
itor, as a testimony of his retirement, the
first issue of “The Davidsonian,” and trans-
mitted to him the position of editor-in-chief.
Casali accepted by a brief speech in which
he expressed to Guerrant the pleasure he
had in working under him for the past three
years, and asked for the student body’s
wholehearted support for “The Davidsonian.”

Bob McCallie, 33 “Quips and Cranks” ed-
itor, went to the stage with Jack- Williams,
recently chosen editor of the year book for
1934, and willed to him the task for which
he said the book itself would speak. Wil-
liams accepted by a speech of appraisal to
Editor McCallie, asserting that he believed
it would be easy to succeed such an effi-
cient -forerunner.

‘Reeves Pope, with.a few remarks, left to
Bill Fugate the editorship of “The Yowl.”
Fugate received the office in equally as few
words, saying that he hoped his nurturing
Davidson’s three-year-old humorous publi-
cation would be marked by as much prog-
ress as the retiring editor’s has.

Allen Mebane finally tapped the gavel to
bring Fred Smyre, president-elect of~ the
class of '34, to the platform. Mebane pre-
sented the gavel to Smyre, which he ac-
cepted in behalf of the rising Senior class.
Fred then asked the audience of about 500
persons to stand and sing “Oh! Davidson,”
after which they adjourned to the banquet
hall directly under the auditorium, where
punch and cake were served, and music fur-
nished by Reeves Pope and his “Southern-

aires.”

WHEN THE EARTH SHAKES

The day was dying a beautiful death. The
sun was sinking below the horizon of the
Pacific in one of its glorious splendors of
gold and crimson and purple. It seemed
like the resplendent finale of a benevolent,
self-sacrificing life that was fully appreciated
by all the world. Many a table grace had
been said over the evening meal—and many
were forgotten or ignored. The day’s work
was done for those who had work, but for
al! there was ahead the anticipation of an
evening of rest. The lamps of the sky and
the lamps of the streets and homes were
being set alight.

And then it happened. The mother con-
versing with her young daughter began to
stutter and wondered why; the house of
blocks erected by the enterprising five-year-
old toppled over in a heap and he blamed
his brother in the next room for shaking the
house too much; the Chinese vase walked
off the mantel and the piano played a strange
symphony as though directed by some un-
seen hand coming from the spirit world. An
old sailor who sailed the original “Old Iron-
sides” wondered why he had to use his “sea
legs” again after so many years, when there
was no heavy sea running and he was on
solid mother earth, The writer, standing
still, heard his heart beat, and saw out of
shaky eyes the ,ten-mile valley at his feet
roll away in swells toward the distant moun-
tains, all the world like the great swells of
a troubled sea.

But there is something different about an
earthquake; it’s distinctive. Without warn-
ing to human beings, it cracks, and here it
is (Note: It is said that all the sea-gulls of
Long Beach disappeared twenty-four hours
before the recent quake, and appeared again
a day and a half after the quake.) But man
had no such premonition. When it comes, so
suddenly, you become mute and paralyzed;
your insignificafice and utter helplessness
crash upon yoti just as soon and just as ter-
ribly as the quake does; for a split second
eyery living thing around you, even your-
self, stops existing; that second of time is
scratched off the calendar of time and is
thrown back into eternity, for man has had
no part in it.

There is no sensation or experience just
like it. Collision, the roll of the sea, sudden
drops like in elevators or in aeroplanes, mak-
ing false steps in the dark, the rumbling
of huge trucks, the concussion caused by
terrific explosions—are all different. You
can feel what they are; you can differentiate
and describe their motions; they can be cata-
logued; you know and feel instinctively what
they are and whence they come. But when
the earth shakes and quakes, much or little,

you feel as though you are pushed, carried,
jolted, swayed, lifted, hit, squeezed, suffo-
cated, shocked and frightened at one and
the same time. It stuns the mind, it baffles
the senses, it paralyzes every muscle in the
body—for just a second or so; then it is all
passed and gone and things begin to happen,

And what happens-may~be anything as
far as human beings are concerned and
what human beings have constructed. You
may gram at something, jump, run, scream,.
drop, talk, cry, faint or even drop dead; it
depends entirely upon how you may react.
There is no telling what you will not do.
Walls fall from their places; wires sway and
snap; man’s careless and indifferent con-
structions crumble together; injury and death
follow with their accompaniment of sorrow,
suffering, sadness “and pain.

—Exchange.

HINES DEFEATS HALVERSTADT
TO WIN TOURNEY

(Continued from page 6)
Nixon, 6-2, 6-1; Wright defeated Doyle,
6-1, 6-2,

Third round: Hines defeated Peake, 6-0,
6-4; Higgins defeated Harris, 3-6, 6-3, 8-6;
Welch defeated Levitan, 6-4, 6-1; Halverstadt
defeated Wright, 6-1, 6-2.

Semi-finals: Hines defeated Higgins, 6-1,
6-1, 7-5; Halverstadt defeated Welch, 6-2,
6-2, 7-5. :

Finals: Hines defeated Halverstadt, 6-2,
6-2, 6-3. ;

»Doubles (first round): Peage-Butler, bye;
Higgins-Welch, bye; Dillard-Willis defeated
Fisher-Dixon, 6-3, 6-4; Halverstadt-Myers
defeated  Odum-Minor, 6-3, 6-1; Nixon-
Hardy, bye; Elverey-Thompson defeated
Vernon-Bryan, by default.

Second round: MHines-Wright defeated
Peake-Butler, 6-3, 6-2; Higgins-Welch de-
feated Willis-Dillard, 0-6, 6-4, 6-3; Halver-
stadt-Myers defeated Nixon-Hardy, 6-1, 6-0;
Harris-Levitan defeated Elverey-Thompson,
6-2, 6-4.

Semi-finals: Hines-Wright defeated
Welch-Higgins, 6-1, 6-0, 6-0; Halverstadt-
Myers defeated Harris-Levitan, 1-6, 6-2, 6-2,
5-7, 6-3.

Finals: Hines-Wright defeated Halver-

stadt-Myers, 6-1, 6-2, 9-7. a
~ Big Five Race

Davidson --___------- 2 0 1,000

Wake Forest ------- 1 1 1,000

Duke <..=<... espana 1 0 1.000

N. C.--State-~===-.--- 0 2 000

Carolina’ 222 2.0-2-=2 0 2 000

Sport Shoes
Wash CTies

The Season is Here--
GET READU]

Sport Pants
Sleeveless Sweaters

IDEY'S

DAVIDSON
SHOP

Mesh Shirts

ISIE HABE MLE Ma ay

Davidson Theatre

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 26
“CENTRAL AIRPORT”

with

SALLY EILLERS AND RICHARD BARTHELMESS
THURSDAY, APRIL 27
“KID FROM SPAIN”

with

FFL PF FE

EDDIE CANTOR

FRIDAY,

APRIL 28

“ELMER THE GREAT”

JOE E. BROWN
SATURDAY, APRIL 29

Nee :

ANITA PAGE
MONDAY AND TUESDAY, MAY 1 AND 2
“KING

KONG”

