THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 29, 1

933

Davidson Five and
Ten Years Ago

H. T. Bowell and Tyree Dillard, varsity
debaters, have returned from the Southern
debating trip, after meeting teams from
Florida, Sewanee, and Emory Universities.
The team had a record of two victories and
one defeat.

John Melton was elected’ president of the
Y. M. C. A. in the third major election of
the student body a week ago last Tuesday
morning. Melton was elected on the first
ballot from a field of five men. The men
nominated were: Johnnie Melton, Bill Hill,
Monroe Gilmour, Dick Flynn, and Glenn
Frye. The tirst four names were nominated
by the “Y” Cabinet and announced on Mon-
day morning by Charley McRea and at that
tiie Glenn Frye was nominated from the
floor.

‘Lhe elections for the vice-presidency were
held at the asme time. Six men were nomi-
nated by the cabinet; they were: Frank
Brown, Zeb Long, Murray Christian, Carl
Pritchett, Russell Nunan, and Allan Frew.
Brown was elected first vice-president on
the same ballot with Johnnie Melton, and
on this ballot Christian and Frew were
dropped. A run-off was held Wednesday
morning between Zeb Long and Carl Pritch-
ett, and Russell Nunan; on this _ ballot
Nunan was eliminated, and on Thursday
morning Zeb Long was elected the second
vice-president.

Davidson Glee Club appeared before a
large and cultural audience at the high
school auditorium at Lincolnton, N. C., last
Friday night. The program was of peculiar
interest. to the townspeople, as Jack Rain-
seur, a Lincolnton boy, with his musical
saw, was one of the main features of the
program.

The Woman’s Auxiliary entertained the
club with a reception given immediately
after the performance.

On Saturday night the Davidson song-
sters performed before a very appreciative
audience at Converse College, in Spartan-
burg, S. C. Mrs. Cullum, wife of Professor

Some Come Sooner, Some Later

Eventually ALL
Johnson’s Barber Shop

Cullum, Head of the musical department,

sang two numbers. which were enthusiasti-
cally received by the audience. Other fea-
tures that gained approval were the bari-
tone solo by R. S. Lowrance; .the string
trio, composed of Messrs. Thompson, Mob-
ley, and McSwain; the violin.solo, by C. C.
Orr, and the Wildcat Quartet.

Monk Younger and Captain Johnnie Dulin
got their heads together last -Friday after-
noon and decided that these Oak Ridge
Cadets who for so many seasons have
thrown terror into the camp of the Scotch
Wildcat, should be tamed once and for all.
The score, as a result, was 10-5, in David-
son’s favor, far more than most of the op-
timistic fans had hoped for, and the rumor
is now current that the 1928 edition of the
Wildcat baseball team will go a long way
in the state race this spring.

Cheerleader Myers recently issued a call
for all Sophomores to try out for assistant
cheer leaders to report to him. The follow-
ing Sophomores answered the call: R. D.
Croom, C. H. DuBose, W. A. Nicholson, A.
T. Edelman, D. F. Gaffney, E. S. Heefner,
and R. T. Nunan.

Mr. J. N. Van Devanter, 1915, with Mrs.
Van Devanter, of Albuquerque, New Mexico,
sent a copy of Borden of Yale especially
for the reading room. .

FROM THE DAVIDSONIAN OF: TEN
YEARS AGO ;
At a recent meeting of the Delta Pi Kap-
pa, journalistic fraternity, invitations were
issued to the following men: W. Z. Brad-
ford, W. K. McCain, H. B. Price, and C. M.
McIlwaine.

W. M. Heston and J. S. Smith were elect-
ed by the student body Monday morning to
serve as assistant managers during the
present season. These two men survived
from a ballot of ten men, nominated by
the Athletic Council. One of the two assist-
ants will be chosen at the end of the season
to succeed W. T. Elliott, manager.

The other nominees were: A. C. Keels,
C. V. Brown, P. Price, D. J. Chipman, P. J.
Storey, O. J. Allison, E. M. McKellan, and
F. S. Shaw.

Coming as a climax to Junior Week, the
Black Cat Cabaret will present a program
Saturday night that bears the names of the
world’s greatest artists. Flop Beaver has
been elected master of ceremonies, and as
proprietor of the Black Cat Cabaret. Music

GEO. W. LAPITZ
Factory Representative

TAILORING DISPLAY at the Soda Shop
EVERY THURSDAY

Star Direct Tailors - $23.50 Up

@

B. O. RAVENEL
Student Representative

~ foreign territory. ae

STUDENTS’ CRUISES

Magazine subscription scholarship workers and crew man-
agers write immediately for very best student scholarship offers
of leading publishers. Can be worked there now. Permanent posi-
tions if experienced, also summer crews for United States and

FOR FULL DETAILS WRITE

The Collegiate Scholarship Institute

219 Republic Building, Miami, Florida

@

{Yollege
Printing

Magazines,

6,600 Square

‘‘PREFERRED PRINTING SERVICE’?

Catalogs,
Handbooks, Etc.
Nothing too large or small for our plant—Let us serve you

A. M. MANSON, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE

Always Best

STANDARD PRINTING CO. CHARLOTTE, N. C..

Programs, Newspapers,

Bulletins,
Engraved Cards and vga

nvitations.

Feet of Floor Space Devoted to Printing,
Exclusively.

will be furnished by the Simpson Sym-
phony- Orchestra of Bucharest, Hungary;
Elkins Original Spanish Serenaders of Bar-
celona, and a Grand Opera Quartet.

Captain Pat Crawford, around whom
Coach Buck is building his million-dollar
infield, is cutting up around the initial sack
this year as never before—and that’s saying
a lot!

Mr. David Ovens, an outstanding busi-
ness man and layman of Charlotte, spoke
at Y vespers on ‘Failure is a Crime Where
There is a Capacity for Success.”

At last all plans have been completed
and no event of importance will arise to
eclipse the long looked for horseshoe tour-
nament between Jove Rogers and O. C.
Henderson. The time for the tournament
has been set for Friday afternoon of Junior
Speaking Week and will be a fitting cli-
max to one of the biggest days of the oc-
casion.

The Eumenean Society held its regular
meeting last Thursday. Preliminaries for
Junior Speaking were held, and four re-
nowned orators of the Junior class strove
mightily for the coveted right to. become
junior speakers. The successful men were
R. H. Smith and L. D. Elkins.

Saturday afternoon the Sophomore foot-
ball team wrecked the Freshman chances
for the class grid championship, and started
their championship drive by battering their
way to a 12-0 victory over the yearling
team.

Boggs and Ballard each carried the pig-
skin across for the Sophs, and on two other
occasions, the Sophs hammered their way
inside the 10-yard line.

Cynical Cyrus says: “A girl that gets
her hair bobbed ought to be switched, and
she will as soon as it gets out of fashion.”

Dr. Lingle Preaches
In Nearby Churches

On Sunday, April 2nd, President Lingle
will journey to Durham, N. C., where he
will preach at the First Presbyterian
Church. He has been asked here for the oc-
casion of installing new elders and deacons
under the new rotary plan. Formerly, it
‘was the custom in the Presbyterian Church
to elect deacons and elders for life. Recent-
ly this rule has been withdrawn and it is
left up to the individual churches -whether
they shall retain this plan or adopt the
new rotary plan in which the terms -are
from three to five years.

Last night President Lingle addressed the
Parent-Teachers Association of Mooresville.
He chose for his subject ‘Money, Manners
and Morals,” pointing out the parents’ ap-
parent failure to direct their children prop-
erly in these most vital matters.

By appointment of Concord Presbytery,
Dr. Lingle last Sunday presided and
preached the sermon at the services in the
First Presbyterian Church of Concord. The
occasion was the installation of Rev. W. E.
Davis as pastor. Besides Dr. Lingle, Pro-
fessor Currie had a part in the service, de-
livering the charge to the incoming pastor.
Reverend Marshall Woodson of Salisbury,
N. C., a trustee of Davidson, delivered the
charge to the people.

-|College Student Tells

Of Spirit of Roosevelt

As hearty as anyone in wishing luck and
prosperity to the man who became Presi-
dent of the United States March 4 is‘a
college student who uséd to go swimming
with Franklin Roosevelt at Warm Springs,
Ga., when both were crippled with infantile
paralysis.

Edward A. Brown, now a junior at Bald-
win-Wallace College and editor of the Ex-
ponent, student newspaper, was paralyzed
by the disease in 1925. Doctors said he
never could sit up again.

The medical world was then hearing of
Warm Springs, where a spring at a tem-
perature of 80 degrees poured out of the
rocks at the rate of 1,700 gallons a min-
ute. Franklin D. Roosevelt had been sent
there. Ten “hopeless” child paralysis cases
were sought to be sent there as last re-
sort treatment to determine whether the
springs really effected improvement.

Brown’s mother took him south. Daily
from 8 or 9 until noon the patients, includ-
ing Roosevelt, were in the pool.

person than Mr. Roosevelt,” Brown says.
most engaging smile. Everyone helped

everyone else about when he could, but Mr.
Roosevelt did most with his spirit. In the

“I’ve never met a more genial, human|

“He was friends with everyone. He has a) |

Intercollegiate Press

Washington—Lost: another age-old simile
—“As scratchy as a postoffice pen.”

Part ‘of the “new deal” in this country
is the elimination of the. old postoffice pen
points that won’t write.

Silliman Evans, assistant postmaster-gen-
eral, whose first name is certainly no indi-
cation of his character, last week sent out
this order:

“The inconvenience of patrons of- post-
offices because of improper writing mate-
rials has been widely commented on for
years. Pen points should be replaced each
day and more frequently where neces-
sary.”

Evans then placed an order for 4,557,600
pen points.

All right, Mr.
three-cent stamps?

Evans—now how about

Poughkeepsie, N. Y.—When they found
they couldn’t cash their checks from home
last week, Vassar College girls issued a
script of their own.

Only $95 of the fiat money was put in
circulation, but it helped the girls out
amazingly.

The script was issued in pea green, blue
and yellow pasteboards, and was put out
by the Vassar Retreat, a student center
operated by seniors.

Elgin, Ill—(IP)—Because David Welling
wants to go to college, many merchants in
this town last week had small change when
the banks closed.

Welling had saved up 11,357 - pennies
which ‘he collected on a newspaper route
and which he expected to use to help him
through college.

ing’s house to exchange currency for the
small coins.

Welling plans to enter the University
of Illinois next fall.

Paris—(IP)—Prof. Jdarloff, former in-
structor in the Imperial College of Sciences
at Petrograd, has announced the invention
of a tablet which he says he can sell for
two cents and which, if dropped in a gallon
of water, will produce a perfect motor fuel.

water we found after a time that we could
walk without crutches. It was’ buoyancy, I
suppose, but the improvement noticed in
the bath lasted after we crawled out.”

“I’m not quite so far along in health as
the President,” Brown goes on. “I have to
have a crutch and a bit of a cast, while he
can walk on a cane. But I manage.”

At Baldwin-Wallace Brown is majoring
in English. :

“Heading for the newspaper business?”
he was asked.

“That’s a pretty tough game, and I’m
afraid a crutch doesn’t help much there,”
he replied. “But, I don’t know—Roosevelt
got to be President.”

When the small change situation grew]
serious, storekeepers flocked to young Well-

Cambridge, Mass.—(IP)—Harvard Uni-
versity was laughing last week at an Ore-
gon clipping bureau.

A letter came here addressed to “Mr.
John Harvard, Cambridge, Mass.,” and
postmarked “The Dalles, Oregon,” which
said:

“In a recent issue of a prominent publi-
cation your name appeared in an interest-
ing article. By returning this card and 25
cents, this clipping will be returned to you
by return mail.”

John Harvard, who founded the university
bearing his name, passed to his reward
about two centuries ago.

’ Cambridge, Mass.—-(IP }—Harvard upper-
classmen last week had an average of 22
cents each on their persons, according to
a poll made of them. Four out of the forty
students canvassed had empty pockets and
were the envy of the college campus.

Several students said they welcomed the
banking holiday as a moratorium from fi-
nancial worries. The Harvard Athletic As-
sociation accepted checks for tickets to the

Harvard-Yale basketball game in Boston
and advanced carfare to students who didn’t
have it.

Lebanon, O.—(IP)—Cordell Hull, Presi-
dent Roosevelt’s secretary of state, was a
spellbinder when he was in college, but
when it came to other lines of scholastic
activity he wasn’t so hot.”

This was revealed in records of the now
extinct National Normal University here,
which Hull attended forty-four years ago.

Some of the new secretary of state’s
grades: i

Debating, 90, 95, 100.

Elocution, 95.

Special elocution, 95.

Rhetoric, 100.

Grades for other subjects ranged from
60 to 75.

Dallas, Texas—(IP)—Many University of
Texas alumni are actively opposing a bill
for the reorganization of the university in
the fear that the reorganization would kill
the university’s football team.

The bill; now pending in the legislature,
would provide among other things for the
elimination of the first two years of arts
courses, and it is from the Freshman and
Sophomore classes that the university picks
up\most of its better football. players.

New York—(IP)—Student Council at
Washington Square College of New York
University have voted to deny a subsidy
to the New York University Daily News,
which was suspended for alleged attacks
on the university.

New York—(IP)—Hunter College teach-
ers have decided that part of the charity
funds collected from the college staff will
henceforth be used to aid unemployed Hun-

ow

NOTICE
Have your shoes rebuilt at the
DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP

Work done while you wait.
C. A. KENNEDY, Proprietor

“DRUGS”

Student

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

Make Our Store Your Store

WHITE DRUG CO., Inc.

“SODAS”

Supplies

“SUNDRIES”

Custom-Made Clothes
$16.50 to $37.50.

CT wo
Special Showings This Week

CToday and Tomorrow
Crosly Square Shoes
$5.00 Pair
Fitted by Mr. KEE

Tomorrow and Saturday

IDEU'S
DAVIDSON
SHOP

Measurements Taken by
Mr. McDONALD

