The Dabidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

Member of

Associated Colleginte Press

= 1933 (aaron 1934 =

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
eae

Printed by the
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of Managing Editors
by 4:00 o'clock p. m., Monday. Letters to the Editor are
welcome, but all communications intended for publication

must be signed.

Editor
Business M

ODI CARA LT icc cc cate cssssecs
W. Ty JOHNSON..-----

EDITORIAL STAFF

G.. L. ILL Managing Editor
Ey F, 2 Managing Editor
B. L. ROSE. Managing Editor
K, D. WEEKS. Managing Editor
JACK HELLING Alumni Editor
Cc. E, NORVELL, -Sports Editor
RAWLING PRATT ditorial Writer
. A, HUN ‘ xchange Editor
b. B. BAILE Feature Editor
S. K. EATO) --Feature Editor
S. C. HEN Feature Editor
Cc. S. McC. * Feature Editor
D. W. HOLLID -Review Editor
L, W. CLARDY ssociate Editor
A, F. SCHENCK Associate Editor
W._ M. THOMPSON. ..22...22--22222ccee none cons ene. Associate Editor
JACK WILLIAMS, JR. As Editor
BUSINESS STAFF

G. L. Assistant Business Manager
WwW. L ssistant Business Manager

anager
anager

ssistant Business

. R. TAYLOR.
J: A. C. WADSWORTH -Assistant Business

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1933

Read not to contradict and confute, nor to believe
and take for granted, nor to find talk dnd dis-
course; but to weigh and consider. —Bacon.

FRESHMAN VOTING

Last spring the student body passed a regulation
depriving the freshman class of the right to vote
in student body elections. Those who proposed
the ruling considered it a good thing because in their
estimation elections in the past had been controlled
and decided by freshmen who knew not the man
for whom they were voting, and consequently many
students had secured offices when they were not
fully capable of serving in the posts.

Recently Davidson held its election for junior
cheerleaders and the upperclassmen voted upon the
candidates, selecting two. The freshmen did not
vote. The abilities of the respective candidates were
unknown to the upperclassmen voters because very
few of the voters ever attended pep meetings and
saw the candidates perform. The freshmen are the
ones who attend pep meetings and they were the
ones who saw and were able to judge the cheer-
leader candidates, but they could not vote.

We do not wish to leave the implication that the
best men for the position were not selected, but it
does seem strange indeed that the ones who were
the best judges in the case were not allowed to
exercise the right of selecting the officials?

SCHOLARSHIP

One of the essential things in a successful year at
college is scholarship. There will appear upon the
campus all kinds of opportunities to take the place
of study. Some of the students feel that their
studies should never interfere with their college life.
Perhaps they would be right if they were attend-
ing a dancing school or a school for the society
seeker.

Scholarship is the primary factor in college ex-
perience. Failure does not necessarily mean that
the trunk must be packed and shipped immediately.
More often mediocrity—commonness—in a life of
high opportunity creeps in and wrecks all. Be alert,
be active, participate in extra-curricular activities,
but make scholarship count—The Gettysburgian.

ON MILITARY TRAINING

Editor of The Davidsonian: eny

In the issue of September 20, there appeared an
editorial in defense of military science at Davidson
College. While not questioning the right of the
editor to express his opinion on the subject, we
feel that those at Davidson who think differently
should be granted the same right of expression, par-
ticularly since circumstances are rapidly forcing the
question to a definite decision by the Board of
Trustees.

One of the most abominable practices here at Da-
vidson is the cqmplete denial by authorities of the
right of the student himself to make a choice in
this matter. Only in case of conscientious objec-
tion on the part of the parents can a student be
excused. Often the student, seeing the situation
face to face, objects; but his parents further away
cannot. Hence they urge him to take the course
for its disciplinary value, if any. Of course, stu-
dents physically unfit are exempt, but these are few
in number.

The Editor~of The Davidsonian, in- criticizing
an editorial which appeared in The Greensboro News
attacking military training, said: “If the author of
the above could-have taken military training at Da-
vidson, he would easily understand that the R. O.
T. C. is a good thing.”

We seriously question this statement. There is
an increasingly large number of students at David-
son. who have taken military science and who are
definitely opposed to its continuance because they
regard it as’ wholly unethical and un-Christian train-

ing.

Certainly the editor of The Davidsonian does not
defend war. - Yet he boldly defends one.of the in-
struments created purposely “to furnish the bulk

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 11, 1933

———

of the officers required in the event of war’’ as the
R. O. T. C. manual puts it,

We are in hearty accord witff him when he says,
“Wars are made for the beriefit of business, a a
lation, and profits, by the so-called leaders of our
country who do not have to engage in combat, and
the youth of our ‘eountry have to bear the brunt.”
But we would change the tense of this last sentence.
The Youth of our country have had to bear the
brunt in the past, but the brutal crime of 1914-1918
taught the youth of all countries the folly of going
out to murder each other for the sake of the bloody
wealth of a few mercenary industrialists.

Therefore we deny the editor’s statement that we
would have to go to war. We challenge it in the
spirit of the Oxford Union which resolved not to
fight for king and country under any circumstances;
we challenge it with those eight thousand American
college students who have voted never to engage in
war for any reason whatsoever ; and finally, we chal-
lenge it in the spirit of thousands of ministers of
Jesus Christ who have pledged themselves never to
support another war.

The editor has asked, “What good would all the
Christian principles which we learned here do, if
we have not learned anything about protection?” If
this is an implication that he regards the principles
of Jesus Christ as insufficient in meeting the needs
of the modern world, we must disagree. Before we
admit the failure of world brotherhood and pacifist
non-resistance, we should like to see them tried.
Ever since the first cave man armed himself with
a club, individuals and tribes and nations have
sought protection in brute force and they have never
found it. The technique of the modern militarists
who say that preparedness is the way to peace is
merely an outgrowth of the savage ideas of early
man. No one can count the empires whose mili-
tary greatness has passed into the dust of the ages;
they sought protection in armed preparcdness.
Those today who advocate preparedness as the way

to peace must somehow explain away the fact that |
their ideas have held sway for hundreds of years |

and wé have never found peace.

The fatalistic doctrine of military preparedness
has been injected into our educational system, and
throughout our nation we find secondary schools
and colleges which have training corps for perpetu-
ating war. Even colleges supported and supposedly
controlled by the church have been placed in that
category. If Davidson, which is under the author-
ity of the Southern Presbyterian Church, continues
to support the program of war preparation, how
can we ever hope for peace? It should be humiliat-
ing to peace-lovers and friends of Davidson that
this college has been cited in the past by militarists

-as a church institution where missionaries and min-

isters of the next generation, by taking the R. O.
T. C. course, are giving the tacit approval of organ-
ized religion to armed preparedness. Surely it is
a hollow mockery to say it is a preparedness “for
peace.”

As Albert Einstein says, “We are either for war
or against war, and mere lip-service matters not at
all.”

There is a ghastly irony in this Davidson scene.
At 10:15 a. m. we are-compelled to worship the
God’ of Love and the Prince of Peace. At 3:05
p. m. we are compelled, with rifles on our shoul-
ders, to study the art of mass-murder.

This article, may it be understood, is not an
attack upon individuals, but upon a system.

R. M. CANN,
W. F. GOODYKOONTZ,
JACK GOODYKOONTZ.

HERE AND THERE

Deans at several schools report higher scholastic
standing coincident with depleted finances.

The proper means of. loafing will be the object
of attainment in a new course of instruction of- |
fered this fall at Butler University, Indianapolis.

The University of Chicago has the largest foot-
ball stadium in the country. It is capable of seating
110,000 people.

Hide tanning was one of the demonstrations fea-
tured at the 1933 farmers’ short course of Texas

A. and M. College, offered with the object of hekp- 4

ing farmers to “live at home.”

A Georgia Tech student unnecessarily repeated |
a course in the same room under the same profes-
sor without either of them realizing the fact.

Players onthe University of Hawaii football
team wear no shoes but develop great acctiracy in
kicking and can punt fifty yards with ease.

Work has begun at the University of California,
at Berkeley, on a new cross-country course which
is being designed to afford a complete view of the
race by both judges and spectators.

Three hundred students at the University of
Michigan signed pledge cards to support the NRA
in a drive’ on that campus.

More than one hundred former Rhodes scholars
attended a farewell dinner aboard the Holland-
American liner “Veendam” in honor of the 32
Rhodes scholars-elect who sailed for England the
following day.

The incoming class of 422 students at Manhattan
€ollege is the largest ever entered, at that institu-
tion.

President Arthur E. Morgan of Antioch College,
Yellow Springs, Ohio, has opened his dining room
to 50 students who will board there at cost.

Boston University has acquired a roof garden on
top of one of its college buildings which will be
used by the art classes of that institution.

A big job was completed when the Bureau of
Economic Geology at the University of Texas pub-
lished a thousand-page volume on all the present
known rock strata of that state.

On Other Campuses

NEWS DIGEST

From the Background

a

Vv. M. 1.
From the V. M. I. “Cadet” we find
the following: “When freshmen at
Davidson College go to church they
are-required to sit in the balcony. Evi-
dently they think less of their fresh-
men than we do of our rats, if the
seats are comparable in hardness.” "It
this is true, what do we think of our
faculty, since the new seating arrange-
ment?

CLEMSON °

Over half the entire Clemson cadet
regiment in full dress uniform will
swing down historic Pennsylvania Ave-
nue, in Washington, on Friday after-
noon, October 13, passing in review be-
fore General Douglas McCarhut, chief
of staff of the United States Army,
and other notables. This expedition
to the nation’s capital is the most am-
bitious in its scope ever before under-
taken by a South Carolina college. It
is inspired by the Clemson-George
Washington football game, but aside
from this one sporting event is a most
wholly educational trip.

WASHINGTON AND LEE
An epidemic of influenza at Wash-
ington and Lee, which during the past
week threatened to reach serious pro-
portions, is now dying down, according
to a recent feport made by Dr. Reid
White, university physician. On Fri-
day, however, sixteen students were
still confined to Jackson Memorial
Hospital. In addition, five students
were reported to be sick in fraternity

houses, and foug, in dormitories.

U. OF CHICAGO
At the University of /Chicago, a
freshman bewildered by the questions
asked on an examination, searching for
an alibi for his inexcusable and com-
plete ignorance, wrote on his paper,
“Only God knows the answer to those
questions.” The teacher, wholly in a
spirit of fairness, returned the paper
with the addition of these words: “ God

gets an A; you get an F.”

U. OF MISSISSIPPI

These versatile co-eds at the U. of
Mississippi have indeed invented a
new means of “study stimulation.”
Disliking the idea of being distracted
from their studies by fulfilling their
numerous social engagements, they
have voluntarily shaved their heads to
keep from having too many dates. The
college barber accomplished in thirty
minutes what the dean could not have
done in four years. Moral: “ All deans
should be barbers.”

SILVER SCREEN

‘Wednesday, October 11—Ann Vickers
—One of Sinclair Lewis’ most success-
ful novels brought to the screen, star-
ring Irene Dunne as-the immortal Ann
Vickers. With her in the picture are
Bruce Cabot, as the army officer, and
the father of her child, Walter Hous-
ton, as the man she finally married, and
» Conrad Nagel and Edna May Oliver.
The story is of one who goes from the
settlement houses through the life of
a reformer, and head of a girls’ indus-
trial home, into disgrace with the birth
of another child to the unwed mother.
The show is vivid, daring and sensa-
tional.

Fhursday and Friday, October 12-13—
The Morning Glory

The latest picture starring Katherine
Hepburn, with Douglas Fairbanks in
the leading male role. It deals with
the small town girl who comes to the
city in hopes of making good on the
screen, She is not given a chance,
and one night is noticed, at a party,
when she is drunk, giving.an histrionic
sketch. Through this medium, she is
at last given a chance on the stage,
and makes good. Anyone who enjoys
Katherine Hepburn at all will certain-
ly think very much of this picture,
as a great deal of her is shown.

Saturday, October 14—Too Much Har-
mony

A great musical comedy, with Bing
Crosby, Judith Allen, the girl who first
appeared in “This Day and Age,” Jack
Oakie, Skeets Gallagher, and Lilyan
Tashman. There are numerous song
hits, “Thanks,” “Buckin’ the Wind,”
“Boo-Boo-Boo,” “The Day You Came
Along,” and “ Black Moonlight.” This
is one of the season’s fastest moving
musicals, and is very interesting, There
is some variety from the general run
of this type of picture lately, and the
songs espécially are good.

Monday and. Tuesday, October 16-17—
Walls of Gold
This picture will not be released un-
til two days after this edition of The
Davidsonian. Consequently, there are
no previews on it so far. However,
Sally Eilers and Norman Foster play

together in it.

HITLER

The German dictator has again put
his foot down forcibly and the Ger-
man newspapers are feeling the ef-
fects. First it was the Jews and now
a new edict has demanded the aband-
onment of what is understood in Amer-
ica as the freedom of the press.

A series of drastic laws was passed
by the cabinet and signed by Chan-
cellor Hitler to the effect that the pub-
lishing of treasonable articles abroad
or the introduction of them into Ger-
many’ was a crime punishable by
death. All anti-Nazi, propaganda was
forbidden. R

This law makes journalism a li-
censed profession with Aryanism and
Nazi patriotism as the necessary qual-
ifications. The effect of this will be
the junking of another of our demo-
cratic ideals and the substitution of a
series of penalties for the curbing of
the press.

What Hitler’s next step will be is a,
mystery none knows except himself.
This man continually surprises us with
what seems to us as unconventional
ethics, but remember, a dictator is al-
ways right,

PECORA

The rise of Ferdinand Pecora,
swarthy counsel for the senate bank-
ing committee, has been little short of
remarkable. For years he worked as
assistant district attorney of New York
with few really big jobs to face. Then
came the senate inquiry into the af-
fairs pf J. P. Morgan and Pecora rose
to national prominence by his ener-
getic prosecution, And Pecora was
made. i

Several years ago Tammany defeat-
ed him.when he ran for the district
attorneyship of New York. Now he is
back again and with a reputation for
competence and ability. The Bronx
democrats are now deserting Tam-
many and taking their places beside
McKee and Pecora on the independent
democratic ticket.

It looks like a battle royal between
Tammany and Pecora and the ones in
the know are moving towards the little
Italian. Can it be that the reign of
the tiger is almost over?

PERKINS

The American Federation of Labor
and Secretary of Labor, Frances Per-
kins, are now in complete accord since
Miss Perkins has supported the de-
mands of labor for shorter hours and
higher pay than they are now receiv-
ing under the NRA. The secretary
recently went before the annual con-
vention and gave her hearty support
to all their suggestions.

She says, “We must go on with a
unified purpose to an ever improving
standard of living and assurance of
economic security for all our people
and sufficient leisure to enable us to
enjoy the blessings which our re-
sources and our equipment can make
available to all of us.”

“We cannot stop with the present
minimum wages and maximum hours
of labor,” Miss Perkins added as the
delegates cheered her vigorously.

TRAGEDY

A worker threw away a burning
cigarette into the dry underbrush. A
fire blazes up and quickly spreads:
Thirty-three men die when they are
unable to escape from the forest.
Thousands rush to their rescue but to
no avail, There was no’ opportunity
to escape. Tragedy in California.

Fifty thousand lie dead of a strange
malady similar to malaria and the liv-
ing are too weak to bury the dead.
The plague sweeps on without abating.
The stricken country does not know
what to do and is in a turmoil. Trag-
edy in China. es

W. L. Stribling is gone. The perfect
physical specimen who fought the
greatest heavyweights in the world is
dead. His motorcycle and a car col-
lided on a Georgia highway and the
wreck was fatal even after his foot
had been amputated in an effort to
save his life. Tragedy in Georgia.

And yet the world goes on!!!

INTEREST INCREASES
IN Y. M. C. A. WORK

(Continued from page 1)

i Statesville Audley Gammon and
Hetvey Ross led the vesper services
at Mitchell College, while Lynn Huie
and Douglas Wauchope were conduct-
ing a meeting at the First Presbyte-
rian Church of that city.

The Cornelius Christian Endeavor

Society heard an evening program last
Sunday conducted by John McMullen,
A. B. Rhodes, Murphy Smith, Nathan
Wauda, and John Morgan. The work
at Cornelius has been permanently es-
tablished and the programs will be
continued throughout the year by Y.
M. C. A. deputations.

All the deputations report success-
ful trips and a_ renewed interest in Y
work among the boys,

dear editor. i happened to be in chapel
this morning when jule west an-
nounced that someone had been to see
him about changing monday morning
breakfast from 7 55 to 8 30 oclock and
i sure got a laugh out of the announce-
ment. the students in this day and time
are getting lazier. they cut across the
grass, sleep through sunday breakfast,
and now want to stay in bed a little
longer mondays, first thing you know
theyll want breakfast served them in
their beds, theg a little later theyll
want elevators in dorms, then maybe
conveyors to take them to classes, and
eventually theyll have these aged pro-
fessors coming to their rooms to tutor
them. wouldnt college life be grand
then question mark.

jack williams and b. o. ravenel are
on the rampage again. they want
everybody to have his picture taken
next week. quotation mark itll be your
last chance because the photographers
wont be back quotation marks they
say. what an annual it would be if

every student has his picture in it ex-,

clamation mark yes what a yearbook.
maybe then we could enter it in a con-
test with ballyhoo,

did you know that there is a charlie
harris at duke another one at wake
forest as well as one here at: davidson
question mark. and they are all prom-
inent. dukes harris is a tennis star
wakes is a wouldbe journalist and ours
is a basketball and baseball star and
feminine admirer.

these freshmen should take pity on
phil cook freshman fullback from
pasadena california and quit stealing
caps from him. last week he made his
fourth purchase of a red skypiece from
the student store.

iheard that you cut chemistry class

monday because you werent prepared
for a daily writ and dr. arbuckle de-
cided not to quizz the class.

. did you hear about billy northerns be-

ing grabbed on the arm by a fem in
spartanburg last saturday question
mark. he was walking down the street
when suddenly someone reached
through his right arm. looking around
he noticed it wore a skirt and was he
surprised question mark.
i overheard archibald shuford say
something about a redhead in his sleep
last night, and then a few minutes
later he mumbled quotation marks i
know what ill do ill borrow griers
car and go down sometimes quotation
marks,
mac porter goes with a girl in salis-
bury who answers to the name of tillie
jones. what ho maybe heres more ma-
terial for a mac-and tillie comic strip.
that boy archie shuford must live
right. they tell me that he thumbed
a ride in chicago this summer that
carried him all the way to his home
in hickory,
caleb west must have been caught in
a jam monday morning. i saw him
rushing toward chambers building with
a bottle of milk in one hand and some
crackers in the other. i wonder if he
was the one who wanted breakfasts
moved to 8 30 mondays.
the boys sure romped wofford last
week and heres hoping they take care
of the cadets this saturday. yours
randy.

VOLUNTEER UNION
ELECTS F. SCOTT

(Continued from page 1)
junction with the Y. M. C. A,, the lo-
cal group is sending out representa-
tives to lead mission study groups in
neighboring colleges. The officers on
the campus for this year are: Francis
Scott, president; Audley Gammon,
vice-president; Hervey Ross, secre-
tary-treasurer, and R. E, Woodside,
deputation secretary.

PLAY TO BE GIVEN
AT QUEENS-CHICORA

(Continued from page 1)
actresses,” will play the leading role
Portraying Mrs. Solness, wife of the
Master Builder. Her' Norwegian birth
and training are regarded as giving
Madame Hammer an advantage in in-
terpreting this most difficult Ibsen
heroine,

Prices for the play have been an-

nounced as 50 cents, 75 cents
$1.00. an

SMOKER GIVEN __
BY SOPHOMORES

(Continued from page 1)
idea-and several other plans were sug-
gested. Nothing definite, - however,
was decided upon, but the committee,
headed by the class president, will
continue to ‘work on the affair, and
submit its conclusions at an early date.

DIRECTOR OF MUSIC.
TO GIVE RECITALS

(Continued from page 1)
year. These concerts are being planned
so as to provide rich and varied enter-
tainment, and Davidson College invites
all of its students, faculty, and friends
to take advantage of this opportunity.

>
