. : 7 ve . —
MID-WINTERS : Ch r rie PS | t Ins 0 at | | a : DEBATING TO
FEB. 3RD-4TH BEGIN SOON
oe Glenda Lux GQbhi Orta Libertas
Vol. XX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 1, 1933 No. 16

Forensic Council Announces

Varsity and

‘Davidson Debaters Will Entertain
State Peace Conference Here
Late in April

DEBATE TOPIC DECIDED

‘Teams Will Travel North, South and
West to Debate

Under the joint action of the Forensic
‘Council and the Faculty Committee three
trips have been arranged for the varsity
debating ‘teams., This year the teams will
debate more schools than ever *before, in-
cluding two newcomers, Haverford College,
at Haverford, Pa., and The College of
Charleston, at Charleston, S. C. Eight de-
bates have been arranged with schools away
from Davidson, one home debate, and one
debate pending. The query to be debated
this year is: “Resolved, That the United
States should agree to the cancellation of
the Allied War Debts.”

The team which will uphold the negative
on the Northern trip will be composed of
Gordon (Skip) Brown and Rawling Pratt-
Thomas, with Tom Caldwell as first alter-
nate. They will debate the University of
Richmond team at Richmond, March 31.
On April 3 they go to New Brunswick, N. J,,
where they will debate at Rutgers Univer-
sity. The following day the team will go
to Haverford, Pa., where they will argue
the Haverford College team. The last de-
bate on this trip. will be with Bucknell at
Louisburg, Pa.

The Western trip includes debates with
the University of Tennessee at Knoxville on
March 10, From there they go to Sewanee,
Tenn., to debate the University of the South
on March 13. The final debate in this se-
ries will be held with Emory University at
Emory View, Ga. The team debating on this
trip will be composed of Charles Moore and
Hugh’ Hawkins, with Ed Humphries as al-
ternate. They will debate the affirmative
side of the question.

Leland McKeithan, president of the
Forensic Council, and Bob Smith will make
up the team for the Southern debating trip.
John Richards is the first alternate for this
team. The first debate will be held with
the College of Charleston, March 3, at
Charleston, S. C. The next debate is with
Rollins College at Winter Park, Fla., March
8, and a tentative debate has been planned
with the University of Florida at Gains-
ville, which will conclude the itinerary of
the Southern trip. However, a debate with
the University of Florida, to be held at Da-
vidson March 11, has;been arranged. Jack
Williams, Jr., is debate manager.

The Freshman debating team, composed
of Bill Goodykoontz, Charles Hamrick, Dick
Cann, and Ben MacKenzie, with Roger Riley

(Continued on page 6)

Dr. W. H. Frazer Gives |

4
|
}

Interesting Chapel Talk
or puley |

Present World Condition Subject of |
Address to Students
Lee aaa !

“We shall emerge from this business de-|
pression only by going back to the old fun- |
damental principles, and not by scheming and}
misrepresentation,” stated Dr. W. H. Frazer, |
president of Queens-Chicora College, when|
he addressed the Davidson College student |
body last Friday during their regular chapel |
service. : |

The speaker made the present world Bone
dition the subject of his address to the stu- |
dents, and pointed out that economic and |
educational leaders are loud in their outcry |
against adverse forces now besetting them.
“Captains of industry are looking on the
structure of their life’s work, crashing to
the ground, and they are unable to cope
with the situation,” said the distinguished |
visitor.

In Dr. Frazer’s opinion, one of the rea-
sons why we have been unable to help the
matters is that “we are unable to take in-
cidents from the past and apply them to our
present day problems.” The noted educator
closed his address with the thought that
the world should be regarded as an har-
monious whole, and that those in search
of solutions for the pressing problems. should
go back to the source of things.

Freshman Trips

Y.M.C. A. Fund

Wednesday night, a group of men
will canvass the dormitories te collect
the money which the members of the
student body pledged to the Y. M. C.
A, Gift Fund in December. Members
of this group will be assigned to va-
rious sections of the dormitories and
will come by each room to receive the
amount pledged and to see any indi-
vidual who did not pledge but who
wishes to make a donation to this
cause.

The total sum pledged so far this
scholastic year amounts. to approxi-
mately $725. This is far short of the
$1,000 goal and it is sincerely hoped
that through the earnest and co-oper-
ative efforts of the students, $1,000 will
be pledged. With regard to the dif-
ferent amounts pledged in previous
years the sum received so far is not
up to standard. Those in charge of
this campaign have been working with
untiring interest to put this fund
across and the matter now lies in the
hands of the students as members of
the “Y” as to the outcome.

Rifle Competition Among
Classes Ends This Week

Prize Will Be Awarded to Team Hav-
‘ing Highest Score

In order to increase interest in rifle marks-
manship, class competition was arranged by
Captain Brown and Sergeant Scott. This
competition, which has been going on for
some time, ends this week, and a prize of
ten dollars is to be awarded tothe class

|team having the highest score.

Team captains were appointed for each
class with instructions that ten men would
be selected to represent each class. The
captains were as follows: Ed .McConnell
Freshmen; Baxter Simpson,
Francis Scott, Juniors, and
Seniors?’

Sophomores;
Brooke Allen,

The targets are to be fired upon from the
four following positions, with five shots
fired in each position: standing with hasty
sling, sitting, kneeling, and prone. The five
highest scores will constitute the team ag-
gregate.

From the group of shots developed from
this competition, a team will be secured to
represent Dayidson College in team compe-
tition with other colleges throughout the
nation, and also to compete for’ corps area
championship and the Hurst trophy. For-
merly the Davidson R. O. T. C. department
has met with success in these fields.

Davidson “Y” Work is
Outlined to Visitors

The State Student Cabinet of Y. M. C. A.
has recently adopted a plan for the benefit
of the associations in the colleges of the
state. The purpose of this plan_is to ex-
change experiences, plans, and ideas about
“Y” work through the medium of deputa-
tions from each state school.

The Davidson Cabinet was host last week-
end to a deputation of ten men from the
University of North Carolina. The Carolina
Cabinet arrived in Davidson Saturday night
at supper time. Supper was served at a
local boarding house for the .visitors. After-
wards a ping-pong tournament was run off
between the two cabinets for the purpose
of getting acquainted. Later there was a
get-together and a feed at the Social Center.

On Sunday morning the men from Caro-
lina were taken out to see the Sunday
School work which is carried on by the
Davidson “Y.” The men were very inter-
ested in what is being done in this way at
the Mecklenburg Sanatorium, at the Cor-
nelius Methodist Church, and at the Mill
Chapel. The two cabinets then attended the
Davidson Presbyterian Church.

After lunch the cabinets held a joint
meeting in which the Y. M. C. A. work at

(Continued on page 6)

iU.N. C. Sends Delegation
of Its Y. M. C. A. to Hold
‘the Vesper Service Sunday

|

Bill McKee,
| Cabinet, Introduced the Eve-
ning’s Speakers

‘THE VALUE OF PRAYER THEME

Hutchinson and Fountain Talk on,

| Prayer and Bible Study
| ees
| As result of recently

the an agreement

j}made between the colleges of the state, a!

| delegation from the University of North Car-
jolina Y. M. C, A. conducted the
crowd attended, and the service was greatly
appreciated,

YoeManG;
Mr. McKee, in turn, presented the speakers
of the evening, L. L. Hutchison and L. H.
Fountain. After several introductory hymns
and a prayer, Mr. Hutchison read the Scrip-
ture from the second Epistle of St. Paul,
and. the sixth chapter of St. Matthew. The
Wktheme for the service was “The Value of
Prayer and Bible Study to College Students,”
and Mr. Hutchison spoke briefly about the
Lord's Prayer. He compared it*to a build-
ing, going in at the vestibule and finally ar-

riving at the throne room, where “thou
art the Kingdom, Power, and Glory for-
ever.”

Mr. Fountain then spoke on Prayer and
Bible Study, and its value to college stu-
dents. He said that he knew several boys
who had found God only by constant prayer
and through reading the Bible. He also
suggested the idea of spending fifteen min-

ing the Bible, and fifteen minutes talking
with others about God.

This delegation was the result of a sug-
gestion that the various college Y. M..C. A.’s
in the state co-operate by exchanging visits
of the cabinets. In this way, it is hoped to
foster better spirit not only between the
cabinet groups but also among the colleges
as a whole.

The Davidson Cabinet will guests at
Chapel Hill some time in the spring. In the
meantime, there will probably be other dele-
gations here.

Men composing the delegation from the
University were: Bill McKee, president; L.
L. Hutghison, L, H. Fountain, James, who
played the organ; John Acee, Ike Minor,
Nesbit, Jack Poole, Winslow, and: Humphries.

German Books Added
to Carnegie Library

be

Dr. G. R. Vowles Announces List of
Forty-four Books

The following are a few of the German
books—added_this— fall:

Fiedler H. G.; A Book of German Verse
(Supplement to The Oxford Book of Ger-
mans Verse), :

Asch, Schalom: Die Kinder Abrahams.

Barlach, E.: Der arme Vetter, play.

Brod, Max: Tycho Brahes Weg zu Gott.

Dauthendey, Max: The most beautiful of
his poems, selected by Walter von Molo.

Feuchtwanger, Lion: Erfolg (Success).

lorbes-Masse, Irene: Gabriele Alweyden.

1902, and Frieden.
Gotthelf: Die schonsten Erzahlungen.
(Continued on page 3)

Activities Slips

| Tomorrow morning in chapel, activi-
ties slips will be distributed in the
Junior and Senior sections. All men in
these two classes who have had An-
nual pictures taken are urged to fill
out these slips carefully and complete-
ly. A great deal of time was lost last
year because of the difficulty encoun-
tered in securing this information, and
it finally became necessary to see each
Junior and Senior individually. If the
students in these classes will co-oper-
ate tomorrow, their help will be great-
ly appreciated by the Quips and
Cranks staff.

President of Carolina |

Davidson |
| vesper services last Sunday night. A large |

Paul Brown, president of the Davidson |
A. Cabinet, presented Bill Me¢- |
Kee, who is head of the University Cabinet.

utes each day. praying, fifteen minutes read- |

' Annual Mid-Winter Dances. :
| to Feature Kassel’s Music

Centennial Class ~~

H The committee appointed to promote
action among members of the student
body to make the Centennial Class of
Davidson College, which will enter as
Freshmen next year, above the aver-
age in quantity and in quality has
been working steadily toward this goal.

Cards were recently placed in the
hands of the members of the student
body which, after they have been
filled out, are to be taken up and
turned over to the college. These cards,
as they contain the name of the pros-
pective student, his parents’ name, his
church, his previous training, will in-
sinuate his scholastic, financial, and
character ability, and aid the registrar
greatly in obtaining the desired mate-
rial and caliber for the class.

a

Articles have and will continue to
appear in the Davidsonian and also in
the state papers to stimulate interest
in the plan and it is sincerely hoped
that the student body as a whole will
co-operate in the attempt to make it

a success.

Four Seniors Promoted

In R. 0.T.C. Jan. 30th

Ogden, Wright, Moore, and McBryde
Are Advanced in Rank

By a special order of January 20th, issued
| from the Reserve Officers Training Corps
| headquarters of this college, several men
were promoted in their rank in R. O. T. C.
The men receiving these promotions are
as follows: Fred Ogden, of New Orleans,
La., was promoted from the rank of Cadet
Major to that of Cadet Lieutenant-Colonel ;
C. R. Wright, of Knoxville, Tenn., was pro-
moted from Cadet Captain to that of Cadet
Major; Charles Moore, of Charlotte, N. C.,
was promoted from Cadet First Lieutenant
to the rank of Cadet Captain, and Duncan
D. McBryde, of Linden, N. C., was pro-
moted from Cadet Second Lieutenant to the
rank of Cadet First Lieutenant. These men
were called forward by Brooke F. Allen,
Battallion A Adjutant, and received their
promotions from the center of the field.
Last year Don S. King, of Bristol, Tenn.,
was Cadet Lieutenant-Colonel, the highest
honor which one can receive in the military
| department here at Davidson College, and
| which position Fred Ogden now holds. Sam
| Wiley, of Salisbury, N. C,, held the position
|last. year which C. R. Wright now. holds.
| Sam is at the present time our “Y” secretary.
| These promotions are held several times dur-
|ing the year.
|

Observer Features
Gen. Smith Article

_ A feature article concerning Gen. Wm. A.|

Smith,.65, appeared in the Charlotte Ob-
server for Sunday, January 15, under the

/caption, “Gen. Wm. A. Smith—Confederate |

land Modernist.” There followed a_ story
|riences, education and philosophy of this
| great man. The article was illustrated by
ltwo pictures, one of them was of the Gen-
/eral and the other was a view of
}cestral home in Ansonville. Portions of this
article about this prominent character are
!as follows:

“The public attention which settled on the

l celebration ofthe 90th birthday on January

his an-

11 of General William Alexander Smith, |

|commander of the North Carolina division
1}of Confederate Veterans, aroused the pop-
|ular interest to such an extent that it makes
|appropriate a review of his life and charac-
ter.

“The conclusion was that he, more than
any other veteran in the state perhaps, is
typical of the modern citizen in thinking and
action while at the same time remaining a
typical Confederate. Werevit not for recent
apprisement the casual acceptance would
see him only as a typical Confederate since,

(Continued on page 6)

| Gala Affair Will Be Held at Charlotte

anon

| Armory; Three Entertainments
to Be Held

MUCH INTEREST SHOWN

“Mulliss and Mebane Will Lead Figure
as Council Representatives

Special to The Davidsonian

Terpsichore will revel on tap this week-
fend, Art Kassel and his Kassels in the Air
furnishing the bla-bla. This superlative ag-
| the followers of Orpheus
|noted for its capability in the production of
| melody, harmony, and mad orgies of rhythm.
| During the past season they have performed
jat one of Chicago's outstanding hostelries,
the Bismark. I quote a Chicago daily, “Dis-
patches reaching us by dog-sled inform us
that Art Kassel and his boys are to ter-
|ininate their migratory passage south in
| Charlotte, N. C, where they will lead in
the mid-winter festivities of Davidson Col-
lege students. Our felicitations to’ these stu-
dents. Their party should prove to be the
very center of the maelstrom of the far-
famed Southern conviviality, Art, one of
our city’s favorite sons, carries our benedic=
tion with him on this tour and the assur-
ance of a warm welcome upon his return to
Ole Chi.”

Let Pan-Hellenics
are to be staged in Charlotte, North Caro-
lina’s famed Queen City of the South, on
Friday and Saturday, February third and
fourth. They are to number three—a for-
mal dance 'twixt the hours of ten and two
on Friday evening, a tea dance Saturday aft-
ernoon from five until seven, and an infor-
mal function from nine until the “witching
hour.” ‘

Rumors, which seem pretty well
founded, indicate that innumerable girls will
be here for the big party—the cream of our
section’s feminine pulchritude—and__ that’s
something,

Young gentlemen, you have, in all prob-
ability, long since concluded that your scribe,
the Davidsonian’s new foreign correspond-
ent, is a novice in the field of journalism.
Well, my friends, you were never more-cor-
in your life. As a matter of actual
fact, this is my initial foray into the jour-
nalistic field. I offer the above in explana-
tion of this extremely unorthodox compo-
sition, I'm all steamed up about these dances.
Only yesterday at a consultation of the lead-
ing physicians of this region my high blood
pressure was, by unanimous vote, attributed

gregation of is

me be more specific.

be

to

rect

to over-excitement caused by anticipation
of the dances about which I propose to
write.

The formal dance on Friday night will be
featured by a Pan-Hellenic figure in which
two members of each fraternity will escort

(Continued on page 3)

Rev. J: M. Walker to Be
Next Leader of Vespers

Earned Distinction While a Student
| Here as a Leader and Athlete

|

It has recently been announced by Sam
Wiley, “Y"” secretary here, that next Sun-
day’s«vespers will be conducted by the Rev.
| J. M. Walker, of Steele Creek, North Caro-

Glaeser, Ernst**The two novels, Jahrgang | which told something of the life, war expe-|lina. The Reverend Walker should occasion

| considerable interest among Davidson stu-
|dents, since he is one of the college’s ‘fore-
| most alumni,

| |The Rey. J. M. Walker is now the pastor
of the First Presbyterian Church of Steele
| Creek. the last twelve he has
| been minister at this church, which has the
| distinction of being the largest rural Presby-
}terian Church in the country. Before his
call to Steele Creek, the Reverend Walker
| was pastor of the First Presbyterian Church
at Marlington, West Virginia.

While at Davidson, he earned great dis-
tinction as a student. He was a graduate
of the class of 1907, and was president of his
class as a Senior. In athletics, he was a
player on two major teams, being tackle in
football, and pitcher in baseball.

Due to his active and vital connection with
his Alma Mater, he is known as a true Da-
vidson alumnus, and his talk is being looked
forward to with great anticipation and in-
terest by many students.

For years

