THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 4, 1933

|| *

The Mavidsonian

Associated Golleginte ress

—=3 1933 Gearon HD) covenact) 1934 =

—

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-

legiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office
Yorth

at Davidson,
Nort 1879,

arolina, under the act of March 3rd, 187

Articles for publication must be in the hands of Managing Editors
by 4:00 o'clock p. m., Monday. Letters to the Editor are
welcome, b all communications intended for ‘publication
must be signed,

ODIL.GASALL

Sd dencsounenalstlitor
Business Manager

W. T. JOHNSON......-

EDITORIAL STAFF

L. GULLETTE.. Managing Editor
F. McPHAIL raging Editor
105 5 oeeeS naging Editor
1D); naging Editor

>
9
a

G.

E.

B.

K,

JACI

C. E. ports Editor
RAWL itorial Writer
J. cA; eature Editor
D. &B. eature Editor
S. K. eature Editor
S.C. eature Editor
CEs eature Editor
D, W. Review Editor
L. W. ssociate Editor
Ay, CK Associate Editor
W._M._1 BSONS ec cds55 Associate Editor
JACK WILLIAMS, JR.... ---Asso¢iate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

G. Assistant Business Manager
W. Assistant Business Manager
if; Assistant Business Manager
J. -Assistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1933

Learning without thought is labor lost; thought
without learning is the death of the mind.

—Confucius.

ln educated man is one witha universal sympathy
for everything and a certain amount of knowledge
about everything that is know), and who still is on
the line of evolution ahd is learning to the end

—Hubbard.

DAVIDSON FIGHT!

Time and time again under a burning sun a
battered and bruised red lineof indomitable war-
riors repulsed the onslaught of a heavier team
refreshed and strengthened by frequent substi-
tutions, until in the last quarter the Carolina
eleven finally managed to cross the goal by a
matter of inches.

The Wildcat showed his fangs for three quar-
ters and his claws were ever menacing during
the last period. Carolina linesmen endeavored to
force openings ‘for their hard-driving backs only
to find these spaces filled with a mass of red.

This is not a discussion of the Davidson-Caro-
lina game from the standpoint of the score, yards
gained or lost, passes completed, ete., but a trib-
ute to those Davidson men who fought gallantly
against odds that never vanquished them, but
finally overcame them technically, when physical
power had been depleted and further resources
were no longer available.

Our players fought fairly and cleanly for
every, second of the encounter. Injured men
were assisted off the field only to return in an-
other quarter after a momentary rest. Gashes,
sprains, the repeated pounding and crushing, the
nauseating blows on head and body seemed only
to serve as an incentive for further fight.

We heard a Carolina alumnus remark after
the game that he was rather disappointed in
Carolina. We have never been disappointed in
Davidson! Every man on every team for nearly
a hundred years has given all for victory and we
have never lost. Our teams play not like cold
calculating machines (even if they do function
as one), but as a band of co-operating individ-
uals fired with an undying and undenied passion
that burns brightly until the final whistle. They
play_the game for the game’s sake and for the
glory of their Alma Mater. They are endowed
with a fighting heritage. They have been nur-
tured on sportsmanship and fair play, asking no
quarter and giving none.

There were no stars as such in Saturday’s
game. It was impossible. A galaxy of suns,
each shining with equal brilliance, gives the im-
pression of a united and continual blaze of light.
So it was with the Davidson players. Each and
every one was a star in his own right. Spartans
all!

The following is a portion of the creed of the
Monogram Club of U. N. C—it has been in the
hearts of all Davidson men for nearly a century;
it was the faith of our team on Saturday: “I be-
lieve in victory. The score board is an incident.
Victory is in the heart, It is born in the hard,
clean fight. It is the consciousness that I have
done my best.”

Reese:

OUR ’CATS

There were words of praise for the Davidson
Wildcats, who fought Carolina to a standstill at
Chapel Hill Saturday, in the columns of the Char-
lotte Observer Monday morning. Jake Wade,
popular Observer sports editor, himself a gradu-
ate of the University, was greatly impressed by
the. fighting spirit of the Davidson team against
his Alma Mater, and was not hesitant in laud-
ing the ’Cats’ play.

The tollowing excerpt is from Wade's column
titled “Monday Morning Quarterbacks”:

“The traditional fighting spirit of Davidson,
sometimes derided by those with a cynical titrn

of mind, never was more.in evidence than at |
The Wildcats did them- |

Chapel Hill Saturday.

selves proud in battling a heavier and potentially |

more powerful combination to a standstill for
three quarters, vielding but one score in a dog-
gedly played contest.

“It was scrap and nothing else that enabled |

the Wildcats to hold the Tar Heels-so well in
hand. .\ Davidson line of questionable strength
and averaging only about 170 pounds, flanked by
two ends who did not go 160 and with only two
players weighing more than 170, gave a most
engaging demonstration of quick and_ spirited
charging ....

“Moral victories are out of style but the Wild-

cats have plenty to be proud of in that defeat. |

They were playing at their peak with an inspira-
tion that had them driving at a clip that was a
beauty to behold.

“The game was about as clean as you see, yet

| John Hunter,

there was always some Wildcats being dragged |

off the field and these injuries must be attributed
to the stubborness of their fight.”

GIVE CREDIT WHERE DUE

In its football program for the Carolina-David-
son game the Tar Heels carry a picture of its
1933 baseball team. The cutlines underneath the
picture state that the team “tied with Davidson
for the Big Five pennant,” and goes on to list
a few of the victories won by the team.

It certainly is a shame that such a school as
Carolina should try to claim a tie for a cham-
pionship to which it actually has no claim. Base-
ball enthusiasts in North Carolina will recall that
Davidson’s baseball team whipped the Tar Heels
three times last spring, Of course, only two of
the games were allowed in the Big Five stand-
ings, according to the sports scribes, Counting
the two victories and disregarding the third, Da-
vidson did finish in a tie with Carolina in the
standings. To decide Who should be the cham-
pions would necessitate a third game. Oddly
enough the third game had been played before
the end of the season and Davidson had won and
therefore should have sole claim for the title.

Although Carolina nor the majority of North
Carolina sports writers care to credit Davidson
with the championship, ‘which they deservedly
won, there is a satisfaction which comes to the
Wildcats who whipped Carolina three times last
spring.

THE SMALL COLLEGE

At a recent dinner, Governor Alfred M, Lan-
don, of Kansas, pointed out the prominent place
in the educational scheme of the smaller college
under denominational supervision, He declared,
“By its closer contacts between students and
teacher, also student with student, the smaller
college is of special worth in the development of
sound character among young people... When
each student has an opportunity to know his in-
structors intimately, he is in a better position to
profit by their teachings. Thus, the smaller de-
nominational college often can serve as efficient-
ly and as specifically as the larger university.”
In keeping with this attitude of the governor,
the 1933 legislature changed the makeup: of the
board of education for the state schools so that
the state’s schools of higher learning no longer
dominate the board, and the denominational
schools are specifically recognized.—Christiaw’
Century.

FRESHMAN POINTERS

Recognizing the weakness of unsolicited ad-
vice, we would still like to give the freshmen a
few pointers gathered out of a few years of col-
lege life.

You are beginning a new era in your life that
is entirely different from anything you have ever
faced. No longer are you an important person-
age, as you undoubtedly were in your local high
school. Here you stand or fall. on what you do
for yourself, not what you are supposed to be
or what your ancestors were. You will be sur-
rounded by new acquaintances, new custéms,
new traditions, and.a different outlook. It will
be up to you to fall in line-with-your-environ=
ment as quickly as possible.

The best and sincerest thing that can be told
you is for you to only “Be Yourself,” and make
that self as pleasant as possible. ‘

—“The Sou’wester.”

OLD AGE

A prediction of the lengthening of the span of
human life by ten per cent through the improve-
ment in diet was offered by Professor H. C. Sher-
man of the faculty of Columbia University be-
fore a meeting of the American Chemical So-
ciety recently. It was stated that man had found
the correct diet for himself and that he can hold
himself to this science of nutrition to an extent
that he will be able to improve his health.and
prolong his life to an average of seven years. Not
only will it be possible for him to lengthen his
life, but it will be possible for him to keep him-
self in such physical fitness that he will enjoy
the privileges of youth and_retain physical and
mental vigor into his old age.

In the past twenty years, the mode of eating
has changed greatly in the United States. Not
only do the American people eat much less, but
they constrain their diets to the more wholesome
and simpler foods. Even though this change was
brought about primarily by our changed mode
of living, it will be noticed that an interest in
diets has. been developed, and that, with this in-
terest and the better foods, the health of the
people has become better, and will continue to do
so, and that in the future the people of the
United States will live longer and more healthful
lives.

igwent
there.

WHO, ME?

On Other Campuses

NEWS DIGEST

“Home again, home again,

Jigity, jig!"

Well, we know that he got home
all right, but we don't know where he
or what he did while he

The young man if question is
Perhaps

was

none other than Tom Wood.
you didn't see him Sunday evening, but
those who did and took the trouble to
notice, no doubt that he
seemed to have come from some stren-
uous ordeal, He had the best set of
under his eves that I’ve seen
this season. And there's nothiwg® that'll
give one such privileges as’a pair of
circled eyes, unless it be white hair.

observed

circles

My personal nomination for the most
disappointed student of the wéek
John went up to find
about his average to see if he
would get the customary extra three
cuts per semester, given to Seniors
with a mean average of eighty-five or
over. Feature his chagrin when he

is

out

| found that his was only eighty-four

and ninety-six-hundredths.

If you want a good hard luck story,
consult any of the crowd who went to
Carolina last week-end with Mokey
Faison and—Gerdon—Smith. The high
lights of the account as told to me in-
cluded having two blow-outs, running
out of gas, walking part of the way to

| Chapel Hill, arriving at the game very

late, and having to bum part of the
way home. 4

And speaking of the game, I haven't
seen anything so successful as the grid-
graph in a long time. The most at-
tractive feature of the apparatus to me
is that it’s going to be possible to sit
here at Davidson in a warm building
and see a game that’s being played
miles away where it’s probably so cold
that twenty per cent of the spectators
will take pneumonia, and the rest, of
them, D. ‘T's.

And not so very long ago, on Sat-
urday last, to be exact, Dr. Gwynn's
class in educational psychology which
had been studying the efficiency of
intelligence tests had the privilege, duty
or what you will of taking one of the
most outlandish ones that I’ve ever
With “the” arithmetic
(and IT have trouble doing my shopping
at a dime store) there was an unearth-
ly section about an artificial language
which came near driving me to drink.
Towards the end of the class, Caskie
Norvell crashed through with the ob-
servation that he knew two, who ac-

seen, Together

cording to the criterion of the afore-V

said test, were ready for Morganton.
I wondered when he first said it and
I'm still wondering now. Who could
they he?

The next prize statement of, the
week, which trite and hypothetical as
it was, certainly got a rise from the
audience at the cinema on last
Friday evening, was from Franchot
Tone who remarked, “Those who can,
dé. Those who can't, teach.”

local

And spring is truly here, or at least
it’s come to East and West. Practi-
cally everybody of any importance at
all has had his’ room painted. Believe
me.it certainly isan improvement. And
take it from one who knows, after
you study in a room that’s just had a
coat of yellow paint, you don’t have
the spots before your eyes as you did
when you tried the samé act ina room
with walls that were a cross between
a grayish and a white streak.

We hear (but we don’t hear half as
lcud and as much as the ones who
room just below him) that Roger Riley
is taking up tap dancing. The mood,
fancy, desire, and at times the urgent
request of his hallmates usually gets
him about ten or eleven at night. And
then to the accompaniment of Young’s
cornet, he goes to it.

And somebody told Gordon Wood
the other day that capitalism was a
dreadful ‘form of punishment often
used in Europe in the Middle Ages.
He even took the trouble to derive
the word for him from Latin. Inci-
dentally he didn’t have the correct
Latin root for the word “ decapitation”
which was the word he had confused
with capitalism. :

“Green. Pastures” is scheduled for
Charlotte; and from all I’m able to
gather there is going to be a goodly
representation from Davidson there. I
haven't asked Jack Williams yet, but
I imagine he'll go. Ihope at any rate
that he won't have the bad luck that
he had two years ago when he went
to Charlotte to see the deputation from
the Theatre Guild present Sherwood
Anderson’s “Elizabeth, the Queen.”
Unable to bum home, he walked, and
spent the time from 12:30 to 5:30 in-
clusive on the highway from there to
here.

DUKE

. From the “Duke Chronicle” we
find that several revisions of the rules
for rushing have been made at Duke
University. In a stormy session that
lasted over two hours the Pan-Hellenic
Council approved the following new
rules: i

1." There will no rushing of
Freshmen by fraternities until the for-
mal rushing period, which will begin
one week after the last of the final
examinations of the first semester.

2. Fraternity men or their repre-
sentatives may not visit in a Fresh-
man’s dormitory or room.

3. A fine of $25 will be levied for
each and every violation of the Pan-
Hellenic regulations. :

4+. A committee of five, chosen from
the Pan-Hellenic council, will investi-
all charges of violation of the

”

be

gate
rules.

5. A student must pass all of his
work, and have a minimum = average
of “C” before he can be rushed.

Ww. & L.

«. . Washington and Lee's 1933 grid-
iron outfit started off on a good season
by upsetting predictions and shaming
a heavy West Virginia team by out-
smarting and outplaying them for four
quarters in the game held in the New
Dominion capital last Saturday.

CHINA

Let’s be off to China!
Intercollegiate Digest” tells us that
four dollars is the annual tuition fee
in the Chinese government universities.
Twenty dollars is the maximum fee
in missionary schools, and dormitories
are supplied free.

“The

COLORADO
: As a penalty for indulging in
the so-called “intoxicants” a student
asthe University of Colorado was sen-
tenced by the judge to attend Sunday
School for. three_years.

From the Background

dear editor. about all you can hear
on this campus now is something about
the carolina davidson game. everybody
who saw it and everybody who didnt
see the game is playing it over again
every nook under every tree or
wherever he meets someone who has
a moment to spare.

in

i didnt get to go but i heard about the
play of the davidsonfteam. one incident
i think ought to be mentioned is the
one about brewster grant who played
one whole quarter with a cut through
his lip without complaining. that sure
took some guts as the trite expression
goes.

is it so that you and grier martin and
skip brown and kenneth weeks and
lyman clardy and sam wiley went to
the game in griers car and it broke
down in mooresville on the way back
question mark,

here is an appeal from bruce peabody.
he left the note which i repeat on his
desk for me. quotation marks randy
some so and so took my yellow bowl
pipe out of my room c east. i had caked
it for one year and now it is gone. if
you can find it for me i shall be your
life long friend. parson peabody quo-
tation marks. whoever that so and so
is please give it back but please dont
return it under the impression that i
want parson for my life long friend.

the grid graph which captain pritchett
got for~davidson certainly is a help
for the college. those who watched the
game from the board here enjoyed it
and ‘the excitement was just as) high
here as it was’ on the sidelines at the
game,

have you noticed that corporals have
been wearing stripes on the shoulders
of their rote uniform lately question
mark,

well heres hoping our team whips wof-
ford saturday. i think ill go as a stow-
away on somebodys automobile. see
you at the game.

randy.

COAL STRIKES

The epidemic of coal strikes is

spreading rapidly. Two more Pennsyl-
vania mines recently declared a miners’
holiday and stopped work. But while
miners everywhere are leaving their
jobs, there remain 10,000,000 jobless to
take their places.
—~President Roosevelt, at the summer
home in Hyde Park, announced his in-
tention of bringing the bituminous coal
industry under the code. It is felt
by the higher-ups that the strike can’t
last much longer with the President
taking such action.

At the same time, 10,000 workers in
Pennsylvania mines voted to keep up
the strike until order is recognized.
They are working for the complete
official recognition of their union, the
United Mine Workers of America. The
coal miners met in Centerville, in
Washington County, and determined
that since they were now out they
would stay out until the “captive”
mines recognized their union as com-
mercial concerns have already done.

In addition to the miners’ action, a
new strike among the steel workers
was also threatened,

While this seems to be a period of
workers leaving their jobs, Mr. Green
of the American Federation of Labor
predicts that their will still be four
and one-half million families who will
need help this winter on account of
lack of employment. The NRA has
helped but there is still a lot to be
done.

URSCHEL CASE

The Urschel kidnapping case which
has taken up so much space in all the
newspapers lately is finally over. The
kidnapping of the oil millionaire oc-
curred several months ago but the
search and arrest of the suspects has
been going on ever since.

The verdict of the Oklahoma City
trial jury was reached Saturday after
about two hours and a half of delib-
eration, Seven men were convicted
and given terms which will- range up-
ward to life imprisonment. Three
others, Sant. Kronich, Sam Kozberg,
and Isadore Blumfield were freed and
left immediately for home.

The convicted were Bates, Bailey,
Berman, Skelley, and three Shannons.
The penalties have been left to the
court. George “Machine Gun” Kelly
and his wife, who were recently ar-
rested in Memphis and connected with
this crime, have not yet been tried.

The Urschels, after briefly express-
ing their thanks to the jury, left for
a week-end of rest: ~

“Tam sorry punishment was neces-
sary, but I believe the jury did its duty
as it saw it,” said Urschel. “I have
the highest admiration for the federal
agents and prosecuting attorneys who
handled the government’s case. It was
masterfully done.”

COMMUNISM

Ever since the Great War and the
overthrow of the Russian oligarchy a
spirit of sabotage and restlessness has
gathered around the name of com-
munism. Wild tales are told of the
growth and spread of this organization.

The late disturbance in Cuba has
again brought communism before the
world. What do we, the people, really
know of this great underground sys-
tem of intrigue which is said to be
undermining humanity ?

The recurring upheavals of the
Cuban. revolution were initiated and
maintained by so-called reds and red
influence. A hundred or so have been
arrested but still scattered labor threat-
ens another strike.

The secret organization is.one of
the most popular fancies of the human
race. There are thousands of them
of all kinds. The password, the secret
knock, the grandeloquent names of the
orders sound inspiring to the human
mind. The term “red” however is as-
sociated with blood and not knight-
hood. The communists have a great
organization. Socialism is definitely
on the upgrade. Monarchies fall pe-
riodically to be followed by something
else. Intrigue and sabotism reign. A
very black picture but also a true one.
Watch Cuba????

ATA

STATIONERY

CALLING CARDS

FRATERNITY PAPERS

Printing of all Types at Reasonable Rates

PROGRAMS

See BILL JOHNSON
iF) e@

203 Watts

@ Garland Court -

Standard Printing Company

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

