' THE DAVIDSONIAN,

SEPTEMBER 20, 1933

The BDabidsonian

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March Jrd, 1879.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of Managing Editors

»y 4:00 o'clock p. m., Monday Letters to the Editor are
welcome, but all communications intended for publication
must be signed,

Editor

ODI, CASAL Es iiscase “se

Wi tin] OR NSON siiksijccadecuaiculgicsces Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

cavecuetaes - Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Alumni Editor
-Sports Editor
itorial Writer

ature Editor
.-Feature Editor

....-Review Edi
-Associate

TLL Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

L. GREEN......./.---.....---.------Assistant Business Manager
W._L, SPRU i G8 Assistant Business Manager
. R. TAYLOR Syksutsieusese Assistant Business Manager
}; A. C. WADSWORTH.....-----------Assistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1933

The fate of empires depends upon the education

of youth —Aristotle. 3
WELCOME
Welcome to Davidson, Class of °37, Davidson

College has been waiting 96 years for you. You
are to be an exceptional class, because four
years from now you will go out as the centennial
Class of this school. ¢ ;

Davidson College was founded by Concord
Presbytery of the Southern Presbyterian Church:
in 1837. “It was named for General William
Davidson, a brave Presbyterian patriot, who was
killed at Cowan’s Ford, only a few miles from
here, while in the Revolutionary forces under
General George Washington. Doctor Robert
Hall Morrison, father-in-law of Stonewall Jack-
son, was the first president of Davidson, College.

The school has not closed its doors since its
founding, although during the Civil War stu-
dents of sufficient age enlisted for military serv~
ice and left the college. 7

Davidson has grown gradually from an infant
of 1837 to a college of about 650 students. — Its
numbers have been rigidly restricted by college
authorities because they have adopted a policy
of making Davidson an ideal school for about 600
young men. Any increase ot applicants for en-
trance in Davidson has been met in past years
by a corresponding raising of entrance require-
ments.

And this year entrance
been more rigid than ever.
applications, for admittance in the school, than
ever hefore, and since the college authorities
wanted vou, Class of ’37, to be the most talented
and best to have ever gone out from the insti-
tution, they have heen stricter than usual in
accepting you individually. Notvone of yotcame
here unrecommended. :

Now that you are here, select members of the
“Centennial Class,” much is expected of you.
To finish here four years hence as the best to
cever leave Davidson, you must make the best
start ever made by a Freshman class, and you
must begin now.

You are now a part of Davidson. Davidson
will have its influence and become a part of you.
Develop early the Wildcat Spirit, that abstract
power which instilled itself into all those who
preceded you.

You have come here to try to store up in your

requirements have
There were more

minds a great deal of valuable information con-.

cerning this world in which we live. While here
you can develop yourselves morally, physically,
and socially as well as mentally. How well you
develop depends upon the efforts you make.
Your Freshman year is a period of preparation
and for that reason it is the most important of
your four college years. Therefore get off to a
good start and you will enjoy your stay here.
Once again, “Centennial Class,’ we welcome
you here to take advantage of and enjoy the
opportunities offered by Davidson College.

JOE “SHRIMP” MORRIS

Early this summer, shocking word came to
Davidson students and alumni that Joe “Shrimp”
Morris, promising young Sophomore athlete,
had been stricken with infantile paralysis while
playing baseball at Edenton, North Carolina.
Those of us who had seen that tower of strength
on the gridiron evading two blocking halfbacks
to throw some dashing halfback for a loss, or
tackling some punt-receiving quarterback as
soon as the ball was in his grasp, or catching a
Mackorell-thrown pass for a first down; or seen
him drive a baseball beyond a fielder’s head to
defeat some diamond foe, could hardly perceive
of such a fate. ;

“No more,” the doctors say, “will Joe go upon
the field to help some Wildcat team to victory.
He’s through.” What, “Shrimp” through? No,
you can’t make me believe that. Many a night
the past two years aj group of us listening would
hear hitn in a boastful voice tell of what he was
going to do in an approaching football or base-

|

ball game.
never would you hear him boast of it afterward.
“Shrimp” will be back. That spirit of his will
make him well.

The Wildcats will take the field this fall with-

| out the chattering Morris at his regular end. His

| the

_and chosen captain of the 1934 baseball team, an |
honor seldom bestowed upon a rising Junior |

never-say-lose spirit will be with the whole team,
however, and his teammates will be pleading, as
Irish did for Gipp, ‘“Let’s win this for
‘Shrimp’.”

Morris has our sympathy as well as our hopes
for his recovery. The popular athlete, who was
elected vice-president of the Athletic Association

classman, was taken recently from a Baltimore

hospital to his home in Hattiesburg, Mississippi. |

MILITARY SCIENCE

Recently a Charlotte newspaper carried a head-
line stating that Military Science had been made

optional at Davidson College. The headline was |

incorrect and caused the college authoritigs no
end of confusion with their registration of “new

students, who refused to take the military course. |

“The papers said it was optional,” they protested,
“and my people don’t want me to take it.”

The story itself was correct but some caption
writer neglected the details of the item and
merely wrote an erroneous. statement for its
heading. Several years ago the General Assem-
bly of the Southern Presbyterian Church recom-
mended to the Synod of North Carolina to ad-
vise the Concord Presbytery to, ask Trustees of
Davidson College to make Military Science
optional at Davidson. The Synod of North Car-
olina in its recent meeting made this recom-
mendation and avised the Trustees to make
R. O. T, C. optional with students here, having
in itself no authority to force the college to do
so, The optional matter is one for the Trustees
of Davidson College, and not the Synod to de-
cide upon.

Recently in an editorial, the Greensboro News
stated that it “has never been able to under-
stand, among many other things, how or why
a church-controlled — institution, presumably
founded upon Christian philosophy in which life
is held sacred, peacemakers are hailed as the
children of God, and brotherly love is proclaimed
as a supreme ténet, should teach Bible or hold
chapel one hour and send its youth out, under
compulsion, to learn how to march, drill, shoot
and stab the next.”

If the author of the above could have taken
military training at Davidson, he would easily
understand that the R. O. T. C. is a good thing.
The government and the church do not vie with
each other in its basic teachings in, ‘this: college
community. There are many benefits to be ac-
quired from military training as well as from
Christiati training. ‘Lessons in discipline, pre-
paredness, loyalty, patriotism, and peers ar.
just as important as lessons in Chf¥istian Wind
ciples.

Besides, is it not true that if there is another
war we, who are now in colleges and schools,
will be the ones who will have to fight it? Gen-
eral Smedley Butler told the Veterans of For-
eign Wars in convention at Milwaukee recently,
that all wars were made “by the Tories and
fought by the rest of us.” Wars are made for
the benefit of business, speculation, and profits,
by the so-called leaders of our country who do
not have to engage in combat; and the youth of
the country have to bear the brunt.

Suppose there is a war. We woild have to
go. What good would all the Christian principles
which we learned her do if we have not learned
anything about protection?» Because we are re-
ceiving military training here does not mean
that, we will go out from here to start a war.
We study military science so that in cas there |
is a war, we shall be better fitted for it.

The R. O, T. C. has a place in Davidson. Since
the establishment of a unit her in 1919, David-
son’s rating among colleges has not been less-
ened, The majority of students ‘here are glad
of an opportunity to take R: O. T. C. They are
not the ones who object, it’s the outsiders, who
don’t understand military science. Instead of
trying to make the training optional or of hav-
ing it abolished here, Davidson friends should
praise and recommend the unit, which last sum-
mer brought distinction to Davidson by winning
first honors in proficiency among colleges of the
South.

. ALUMNI SECRETARY

The Executive Committee of the Alumni
Council at its meeting May 29, selected D. Grier
Martin, secretary of the Alumni Association, to
replace Professor Ernest Beaty, who temporar-
ily held the position and taught during the past
year.

The need of a full-time secretary was keenly
felt since Ernest Milton resigned a year ago to
accept a position at Barium Springs Orphanage.
The Davidsonian considers the Alumni Council
wise in its selection of a former editor, athlete,
and O. D. K. member as its secretary.’ Martin
graduated from Davidson in 1932, receiving Cum
Laude. Last year he coached intra-mural ath-
letics while working for his Master’s degree.

RATE YOURSELF

Intelligence is what you get from home. Com-
mon sense you must develop yourself. Learn-
ing is what you obtain in school. Knowledge is
what the world hands you. Judgment comes
only with the years. Experience is a bitter med-
icine administered by life itself, and must be
taken with a bit of conscience, Wisdom is a
phantom often chased but seldom overtaken.
Success or failure are a matter of opinion. Repu-
tation is the golden scale. Contentment the final
objective.—Buckeye, Archbold, Ohio.

And he went out and did it, but |

|| NEWS DIGEST

REBELLION
ee than two hundred miles
| fr8fn the coasts of these United States
I situation is even now developing
|

which our children will read in their
histories. We are in the midst of
| change. Armageddon is here. Insti-
tutions once stable are now tottering.
America, the stronghold of capitalism,
| is carrying out a socialistic experiment.
The Cuban rebellion is now dom-
| inating the headlines of all the papers.
| A growing murmur against the cruelty
and bigotry of Machado resulted in
the overthrow of his government, the
| death of his adherents, and the pres-
| ent chaotic condition of his country.
| The remainder of the episode thus
| far is well known. De Cespedes was
+ elected to Machado’s office but his tri-
umph was cut short by another up-
| rising, The issue is still unsettled as
| mobs sack and burn in the streets.
Demonstrations against American in-
terference are frequent and there %s
some fear for the American populace,
but thus far foreigners have not been
seriously maltreated. and it is hoped
that with the aid of the United States
destroyers in Havana a serious calam-
ity can be avoided,
! We must wait as long as possible
lee the Cubans to try and arrange
their own affairs. The mob spirit is
ruling now, but is gradually on the
wane,

SLEEPING SICKNESS

A modern black death which began
in Greater Saint Louis is at last on
the wane after claiming over one hun-
dred and fifty lives. This dread
disease, sleeping sickness, has left no
clues as to its source, its cure, nor its
nature. The only important discovery
has been that the germ is found in
the kidneys but even with this help
isolation is impossible.

The germ works like a flash, The
victims are stricken today and dead
tomorrow. From Saint Louis the epi-
demic gradually spread, but its worst
havéc has been in. the city of its
birth.

Three scientists have literally devot-
ed their lives to the study of this dis-
ease. It is supposed to be ievead by
the bite of some insect, so these brave
men allowed themselves to\be bitten
by mosquitoes which had previously
bitten some of the sleeping sickness
patients. The result of this experi-
ye is still uncertain, but{the least
“We can do is th praisé those Jmen who
have gambled with their lives in the
interests of humanity. Let us give
credit where credit is due.

STORM

This summer has been a. period of
unusually severe storms which have
ravaged both the Atlantic and Gulf
coasts. First a great natural upheaval
rocked the beach resorts along the At-
lantic Seaboard, Then Brownsville,
Texas, was levelled and now the cen-
ter of disturbance has come closer
hom>:.,

New Bern, N. C., was the last town
to feel the force of the wind and
waves. Coming out of the Bahamas
and leaving a swath of destruction be-
hints the-stormrestruck the North Caro-
lina coast with full force, severing
communications and destroying prop-
erty. Ten lives are reported lost and
the damage is estimated at $1,000,000
or more.

The storm continued up the coast
and across the New England States
with abated intensity. The season for
severe storms is now practically over,
but the damage done this year has
been much greater than usual.

Several Davidson boys who are from
New Bern and its vicinity are still
anxiously awaiting word from their
homes and families.

Blythe Returns
From Study Tour

Professor F, L. Blythe, of the Span-
ish department of Davidson College,
this summer made his fourth trip. to
Spain in order to continue his studies
in Spanish. .

Professor Blythe sailed from New
York on June 3rd aboard the Rex,
an Italian steamer which at one time
held. the speed record for crossing the
Atlantic. He arrived at Gibraltar on
June 8th, spent two days there, went
to Cadiz, and then to Madrid. He
spent the majority of the summer
studying at the El Centro de Estudios
Historicos de Madrid, a school for for-
eigners.

The political situation was very un-
certain in Spain this summer, Profes-
ser Blythe said. Since he has returned,
the government has been overthrown
and a new president installed.

Leaving Spain on August 25, he ar-
rived in New York on August 31
abdard the Conti di Savoia, another
Italian steamer. He returned to Da-
vidson on September 1, terminating his
trip exactly three months after his de-
parture.

Graham Praises
Newton’s Work

“Those boys are four weeks ahead
of any team I’ve seen at Davidson in
a long time,” remarked Irvine Gra-
ham, Davidson alumnus and trustee,
as he was watching the Wildcats scrim-
mage here last Saturday. Graham,
who used to be a football player and
coach, was impressed—by the way
Coaches “Doc” Newton and Gene Mc-
Ever had got their prospects in fine
condition in such a small period of
time.

“Newton and McEver have done a
fine piece of work in their one year
here,” he continued. “Those coaches
have trained their men in the funda-
mentals and it’s no wonder those boys
block better and tackle harder than
any I've seen here before.”

When the Wildcats open their sched-
ule here Saturday against Elon, it will
be the start of the second campaign
at Davidson for the two coaches.

Pep is Shown
By! Freshmen

Led by Head Cheerleader Hugh
Hawkins, the Freshman class has had
two very lively pep meetings in prep-
aration for the first game of the sea-
son next Saturday. The Freshmen
have responded enthusiastically to the
call and promise to give excellent sup-
port to the “Red and Black Machine”
in their first encounter.

Cheerleader Hawkins is being assist-
ed by eleven Juniors, namely: Byerly,
Deans, Garrett, Guerrant, Hanrahan,
Maynard, McCall, Monroe, Morris,
Rogers, and Warren. From these men,
two will be chosen to act as assistant
cheerleaders this year and next year
one of these will be elected head cheer-
leader.

Hawkins urges the entire student
body to attend the pep meeting Fri-
day in final preparation for the game
Saturday, Captain Pritchett, Coaches
Newton and McEver and the band will
all be on hand to add color to the’
meeting.

Rat Types

There is a rat which visits our room"
every night. He comes in by a secret
passageway at exactly one o’clock and
after making a round of the room to
see that no one will be aware of his
presence, he settles down in our waste
basket to see what he can find.

Monday night we decided to write
a fetter to the home-folks. I put a
sheet of paper in my~typeéwriter, but
before we got started we changed our
mind and went to bed, leaving the
sheet of paper in the typewriter.

After being in bed an hour, we were
awakened by a slow, steady click of a
typewriter: Looking up, we saw a rat
working laboriously, pecking away at
the keys. We watched him, being care-
ful not to let him know he was being
spied upon, After fifteen minutes of
this stenographic work, the little vis-
itor jumped down from the desk and
was off.

We waited a few minutes to make
sure he was gone, and then got up to
see what he had written. On exam-
ination, this is what we found written
in small letters, evidently because he
could not operate the capital shift key.

dear editor. thank you for leaving
this sheet of paper in the typewriter.
most of the rats here are plain rats
but i have a human soul in me. i used
to be a journalist but recently have
not had an opportunity to write. ‘there
are. a lot of things which happen
around here that nobody sknows about
but me. lots of times i overhear con-
versations which would be interesting
to your readers. sometimes i hear stu-
dents talk in their sleep and i laugh
myself silly at what they say. i would
like to write a column for you every
week, if you will leave a sheet of paper
in this typewriter every monday night
i will write you what i hear and see
and maybe sometimes give you my
opinion on some of the things which
happen here. one thing i wish you
would do is to put a little oil on this
machine so i wouldnt be so tired when
i got through. you might bring ‘me
some bread crumbs to eat sometimes
too. you may call me randy.

Valuable Additions
to Library

The Carl Schurz Memorial Founda-
tion of Philadelphia has recently pre-
sented the Davidson Library with sev-
eral new books.

H. A. Phillips’ “Meet the Germans,”
written in English; Emil Doernen-
burg’s “Deutsch-Amerikanische Bal-
laden und Gedichte,” written in Ger-
man; Emil Ludwig’s “ Wilhelm Hohen-
zollern, the Last of the Kaisers,” writ-
ten in English; and a translation of
H. Fallada’s “Little Man — What
Now?” are the added volumes.

WHO, ME?

What with returning to school and
seeing old friends, meeting afternoon
classes, though with grave misgivings,
going to or keeping away from Char-
lotte, as the case may be, planning
for a nice Christmas vacation, and
wondering both about money and the
Freshman class, I’m more or less un-
der the weather, :

Jack Williams and Ravenel, B. O,,
have been on the porch of Watts like
Grant around Richmond for the past
week. The main interest is more and
richer Freshmen, althgugh the upper-
classmen are also included in the pic-
ture-taking proposition. When I came
to Davidson I, along with a good many
others, was told that it was just a part
of the registration. First the treas-
urer, then the photographer, and after
that the physical examination.

And is my face red? Sunday, though
not quite as usual, I went to church
expecting to find more than enough
seats downstairs. I must admit that
I was somewhat taken aback when I
found it was necessary to go the length
or rather the width of the church and
end up in the balcony just as I did
when I was a Freshman.

The old occasional’s got me along
with the rest, for most of the post
office boxes are rented. As far as I’m
-concerned, it’s another form of graft
for me to get one, But that’s all right.
Some of these days I’m going to get
a letter and I'll die from the shock.

And those overl¥-polite people might
do well to take a tip. Not long ago
a rather well-known Junior was work-
ing for the R. O. T. C., department,
distributing uniforms to the incoming
Freshmen, On finding one who wasn’t
taking the course, he heartily con-
gratulated him. An officer happened
to hear him, Just exactly what hap-
pened next can perhaps be left out just
as conveniently as it can be put in. At
any rate, he’s working for the “guy-
ment” no longer; he lost his JOD; 473
MORAL: Congratulations are not al-
ways in order,

And then there’s the Freshman here
who had to be stopped on Sunday
morning, last, when he dressed and
started to rush uptown to get his mail.

Incidentally, he may be the one who
left a classroom quite suddenly when
the professor mentioned the laws of
pedagogy. He thought he'd gotten into
a law class.

During his year of absence, Profes-
sor Lilly became somewhat of a myth-
ological figure. He was regarded as
a sort of demigod with whom English
eight was invariably mentioned. It
wasn’t particularly surprising when
there was a larger enrollment than
usual for the aforesaid course. But now
with things so tangible as parallel and
written lessons, the myth’s faded.

The absent professor from the col-
lege this year is that genius of dry
wit, Dr. K> J. Foreman. It was he
who said that his idea of a good sales-
man was a man who could go to Geor-
gia in a depression year and make a

killing selling Biographies of General
Sherman,

Mrs. Smith reports that she is ap-
proaching insanity. She says that it
won't be long until she'll be seen
grasping the. bars and looking from
the windows of a padded cell and at
the same time muttering something
about dressers and beds.

And do the Freshmen have a sur-
Prise in store for them, or do they?
Fraternity. rushing programs are well
under way. The surprise, pleasant or
unpleasant as it may be, will come on
and soon after the 25th. ‘That's the
day bids go out, They gaze and gaze
but little think and are able to resist
anything except temptation.

A dillar, a dollar,
An eight o’clock scholar,
What’s happened to our school?
| We used to cut two times a month, '
But once by this new rule!

Mail Box Service

: Better and more rapid mail. service
1s promised Davidson students if they
have their incoming mail addressed
with their box numbers, Samuel G.
Stough, acting postmaster of the Da-
vidson office, stated that students, who
have rented boxes, should inform
their parents and friends of their com-
plete address.
pa ae
CONSTITUTION DAY

* Last Sunday, September 17, marked
the 147th anniversary of the adoption
of the American Constitution, an event

not celebratad generally as a holiday.
