Che Mavidsonian

Alenda Lux Gbi Orta Libertas

a

Vol. XX

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 22, 1933

No. 23

Popular Evangelist Will Speak on
Chapel Program Latter Part
of Next Month

SON OF GYPSY SMITH, SR.

Called “Most Highly Though of Pro-
fessional Evangelist” by Au-
thorities

The Davidson Y. M. C. A. has been ex-
tremely fortunate in securing Gypsy Smith,
Jr., to conduct its Spring Services. To ob-
tain Mr. Smith as speaker it was neces-
sary to book him a year ago to lead the
meetings which will be held on the 24th,
25th, and 26th of April. He will speak. both
during chapel and immediately after sup-
per on these days, which are Monday, Tues-
day and Wednesday. On Tuesday and
Wednesday the chapel period will be length-
ened.

———he-speaker now has his headquarters at

Noank, Conn., having abandoned his former
southern Headquarters at Jackson, Miss. He
is in great demand throughout the coun-
try, having--recently spoken in many im-
portant cities in the South, besides Lan-
caster, Pa., and other large Northern cen-
ters. Some of his recent engagements in-
clude a three weeks’ session at the Central
Presbyterian Church in Atlanta last fall;
one of equal length in Cumberland, Md.;
engagements of two weeks at Bristol, Tenn.-
Va., Richmond, and Memphis, besides short-
er periods spent at Charlottesville, Va., and
Knoxville, Tenn. Just—before—eoming—here
Mr. Smith will be in Durham for two weeks,
and immediately upon leaving will go to
Petersburg, Va., for a month. In addition
to this he was one of the featured speakers
(Continued on page 6)

Clark Asks Co-Operation
in Discouraging Politics

A recent non-fraternity meeting was
called by Jerome Clark, president of the
student body, to discuss the political situ-
ation within the student body: John How-
ard made a talk in which he appealed to
the men as loyal Davidson students to up-
hold the traditions of Davidson and avoid
as much politics as possible on the campus.

Duncan McBryde spoke and explained
why he thought the group were justified
in their previous meeting and outlined some
of their plans and the ultimate goal they
hope to achieve. He appealed to his listen-
ers to co-operate with the president in ex-
cluding all forms of politics and election-
eering in the present as well as future
elections. He stated that he hoped in the
future there would be no political differ-
ences but rather political equality between
fraternity men and the non-fraternity men.

President Clark explained the plan of hav-
ing a meeting also of fraternity men to
secure co-operation in fighting against the
idea of bringing political pressure to bear
in future elections. He told of the extent
to which fraternities had dealt in politics
in the past and how efforts would be made
to stop this.

Fred Ogden summed up the plan of the
non-fraternity group in their effort to es-
tablish political equality among all men on
the campus and suppress politics and. po-
litical pressure. After more discussion on
the subject the assembly adjourned.

Fireside Forum
Advance

Professor Ernest A. Beaty has been
secured to lead the Fireside Forum
“at the Social Center Friday night at
9 o’clock. Professor Beaty will speak
on the topic, “Prayer,” and a most in-
teresting discussion is expected. The
attendance at these enjoyable meet-
ings has been splendid, and it is hoped
that the students will show their in-
terest in the future meetings. The
discussions will be held every other
week until the end of the semester.

Eleven Men Honored ©
by Omega Phi Alpha

Omega Phi Alpha, honorary philosophical
and psychological fraternity, at a recent
meeting issued bids to eleven members of
the Junior class. The ones who received
this honor were Jack Williams, J. E. Dill,
Lyman Clardy, James White, Fred Smyre,
W. T. Thompson, W. M. Thompson, Alex
Schenck, Odi Casali, E. J. Humphrey, and
| Madison Armistead.

The purpose of this honorary fraternity
is to hold informal discussions on books and
articles of interest, and discussions of mod-
ern trends in thought and behavior. The
following men of the Senior class are in the

| fraternity: D. M. McConnell, D. D. Mc-
| Bryde, C. F. Myers, W. M. Mullis, W. L.|
[eo pgerat T. A. Bowles, W. B. Ward, and
R. L. McCallie. No officers have been elect-
ed this year.

Omega Phi Alpha plans to hold a meet-
ing in the near future to elect officers and
to initiate the new men. Dr. Hood and Dr.
Sentelle are the faculty advisers for the
fraternity.

Eta Sigma Phi Pledges

Classical Language Men

At its last meeting Eta Sigma Phi, hon-
orary classical fraternity, chose seventeen
mén who have attained high averages in
either the Latin or Greek languages to be- |
come members of the society. Ten of these |
students were selected for excellence in
Greek. Six were elected for high grades in |
Latin, and Professor J. C. Bailey, in the,
Greek department, was the other to receive |
a bid.

Nine of the new members are Sopho- |
mores, three Juniors, two Seniors, one |
Freshman, and one faculty member. Those |
receiving bids are: W. C. Neill, Jr., A. G.
Brenizer, Jr., R. T. Coit, Archie Coleman,
W. B. Ravenel, III, C. B. Ross, G. H. Brown,
A. B. Rhodes, George Gullette, Madisen
Armistead, H. T. Morris, Lynwood Brown,
John Whitley, S. M. Hines, Stuart Henry,
Hugh Johnson, and Professor Bailey.

Debating Team Ends
Southeastern Trip

Charlie Moore, Hugh Hawkins and Ed
Humphrey, of Davidson’s debating team,
returned last Friday from a tour through
East Tennessee and Georgia. On the sey-
en-day trip they debated the University
of Tennessee, the University of the South,
and Emory University. The subject of all
three debates was, “Resolved: That the
United States of America should agree to
the cancellation of the inter-allied war
debts.” The Davidson team argued the af-
firmative side of the question.

The first debate was with the University
of Tennessee in Knoxville on Friday night,
March 10. Hampton, Bolling, and Williams
upheld the negative for Tennessee. This de-
bate wasan Oxford style debate. Each team
was allowed twelve minutes to present its
argument. Following this, each team was
questioned by the other for twelve minutes,
and finally there was a rebuttal of eight
minutes. No decision was given.

Qn Monday, March 13, the team met the
debaters: of the University of the South at
Sewanee. As judges could not be procured, |
this debate was non-decision also. Knorr |
and Brown represented the University of |
the South.

From Sewanee the team journeyed to At-
lanta, Ga., where they lost to Emory Uni-
versity on Thursday night, March 16. Em-
ory’s debaters were Ward and Gordon.

On March 30,a team composed of “Skip”
‘Brown, Pratt-Thomas and Tom. Caldwell
will leave Davidson for an eleven-day trip
through Virginia, New Jersey, and Pennsyl-
vania to debate the teams of the University
of Richmond-on March 81, Rutgers Univer-
sity on April 3, Haverford University on
April-4, and Bucknell University on April

(Continued on page 4)

‘Large Numbers Attend

GYPSY SMITH, Jr, ENGAGED
TO SPEAK FOR “Y” SERVICES

be

| with its good music, novelty and specialty
| numbers. In spite of conditions, the dance

Junior Speaking Dance |
at Charlotte Ballroom

Excellent Music and Novelty Num-
bers Furnished by Reeves Pope
and His Southernaires

ATTRACTIVE GIRLS ATTEND

House Parties Held by Fraternities
on Week-end Prove Enjoyable

The Junior Speaking dance held last
week-end by the Juniors was an unusually
suc¢essful and brilliant occasion. This event
has come to be a high light on the social
calendar at Davidson and those attending
declared it to be one of the most enjoyable
of the social season: Each of the ten social
clubs on the hill invited guests up for the
party. and some of them held banquets and
other entertainment to round out the week-
end.

Because of the difficult times it was con-
sidered a wise thing to make the dance as
inexpensive as possible and the committee
in charge were Lanier Ward Pratt, presi-
dent of the Junior class, and his assistants,
Charles Rives, John Lafferty, Lynn Huie,
and Duck Powell.

The Southernaires, Davidson College or-
chestra, furnished the music¢ and contributed
a great deal to the success of the party

was well attended and the affair proved to
be one of the most enjoyable parties held
so far this year.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Misses Mildred
Brown, Courtland Preston, Belle Reid Mar-
tin, Charlotte; Zibba Odell, Concord; Bobbie
Bennett, Greer, S. C.; Elizabeth Harper,
Rocky Mount; Matilda Ehringhaus, Ra-
leigh; Esther Blackwelder, Betty Harper,
Hickory; Miriam Cannon, Concord.

Phi Gamma Delta: Misses Mary Lib Cun-

(Continued on page 4)

Vesper Service Led™

by Mr. David Ovens

Those who attended the last Y. M. C. A
vesper service had the pleasure of hearing
Mr. David Ovens, the general manager of
Ivey’s Charlotte store. Mr. Ovens, who is
very active in the work of the Myers Park
Church, is no stranger to Davidson audi-
ences, as the college has been fortunate
enough to have him conduct vesper services
for the last several years. His warmth and
sincerity of speech, and the sense of good
humor and understanding manifested in his
speaking, have endeared him to Davidson
audiences who have had the privilege of
hearing him.

Gene Cannon had charge of the meeting,
and introduced the speaker. He read for
the scripture Luke 9:59-62. Bob Morrow
and Jerome Clark led in prayer, after which
Byron Shriver rendered a beautiful selec-
tion on the violin, accompanied at the piano
by Ed MeNair.

Mr. Ovens based his talk on the subject,
“Standing From Under.” In speaking to the
young college men who composed his audi-
ence, he showed that the members of the
older generation had handed down to us a
rather badly jumbled world, and that we
of the younger generation must do our duty
in arranging the jumble. The main trouble
with us as Christians is the fact that we
“stand from under,” or fail to meet our

(Continued on page 6)

Pi Delta Alpha to Hear
Dr. Addison G. Brenizer

Dr. Addison G. sBieniner will be “the

Delta Pi Kappa Holds

Interesting Meeting

Delta Pi Kappa, honorary journalistic fra-
ternity, held its regular meeting last
Wednesday night, March 15th, at the Social
Center. At this meeting a course in journal- |’
ism was discussed, and it is probable that
one will be had next year.

Delta Pi Kappa is trying to petition Pi
Delta Epsilon, but as yet they have not re-
ceived an answer.

Arthur Ross has recently been initiated,
and some time in the near future they are
planning to pledge some members of the
faculty.

The next meeting will beheld at the
Sigma Alpha Epsilon house Wednesday
night. Dr. C. K. Brown will be the speaker
of the evening, unless further complications
arise. After the meeting, the members of
the fraternity will adjourn to Mrs. Hen-
derson’s, where a feed will be had.

Reporters’ Club

At a meeting of the Reporters’ Club
last Friday night, the following men
were issued invitations to become
members of that society: Fields
Young, Charles Sutlive, Harvey Glass,
John Walker, Lamont Brown, Addison
Brenizer, Roger Riley, Bill Goody-
koontz, Bill Bowman, Paul Harlan,
Hervey Ross, Ed Wooten, Carlyle
Lewis, Mark Senter, Tom Downie, Bill
Merchant, Jack Plunkett, and P. D.
Guerrant.

Bids were issued to these men in
recognition of their exceptional jour-
nalistic ability, as evidenced by their
interest in and faithful work on the
editorial staff of the Davidsonian.

The initiation of the new men will
be held Friday week in the Scabbard
and Blade hall.

There are at present about thirty-
seven members of the club from the
three upper classes. The officers are:
John Lake, president; Lyne Gamble,
vice-president, and R. Pratt-Thomas,
acting secretary-treasurer, in place of
Lewis Gregg. New officers. will be
elected at the initiation.

speaker at a meeting of the Pi Delta Alpha |;
pre-medical fraternity to be held Friday
evening, March 24. This meeting will be an
open one, and everyone who is interested
is cordially invited to attend.

Dr. Brenizer is a resident of Charlotte,
and is one of the most prominent surgeons
in the country. He is a very interesting
speaker. These qualities and, in addition,
his attractive personality, will)-make this
program one of the most delightful to be
offered to the public this year by Pi Delta
Alpha.

The place and time of the meeting and
also the subject of Dr. Brenizer’s address
will be announced in chapel Friday morn-
ing.

Group From Queens
Visits Local Society

An interesting program was given at the
regular meeting of the Eumenean Liter-
ary Society on March 21st. Ed McNair fin-
ished the presentation of his travelogue
which was begun at the meeting last week.
This travelogue concerned a trip which he
made to the West last summer. Stuart
Henry than delivered an entertaining paper,
following which current news events were
discussed by Herman Dillard.

On Tuesday, March 14th, a program was

conducted by members of the Pi Delta Lit-
erary Society of Queens-Chicora College of
Charlotte. Miss Virginia Anderson, presi-
dent of the society, presided over the meet-
ing. The program. was as follows: “Cur-
rent Events,” by Miss Grey; “A Fantasy
on Poe,’ by Miss Robinson; “Essay on
Feet,” by Miss Storm; “Essay on Gals-
worthy,” by Miss Foard. A violin solo was
rendered by Miss Martin, who was accom-
panied at the piano by Miss Wilkinson,
and a duet was then offered by Miss Frazier
and Miss Hill, accompanied at the piano
by Miss Collins. Following the meeting, an
informal reception was held at the “Y’ So-
cial Center, at which the Eumenean So-
ciety entertained the society from Queens-
Chicora and the Philanthropic Society of
Davidson.
The new officers of the Eumenean So-
ciety, who were recently installed, are: Jake
Mackorell, president; R. T. Banks, vice-
president; J. L. Shirey, secretary-treasurer,
and Bill Ward, reviewer.

W. M. THOMPSON ELECTED “Y”
PRESIDENT FOR NEXT YEAR

Bob Coit and Tommy Phifer Elected
Vice-Presidents for Coming
Year

“WEE” HAS FINE RECORD

Morrow, Huie, Scott, Thompson, and
Powell Run for President

William M. “Wee” Thompson, of Rich-
mond, Va., was elected president of the
Y. M. C. A. for the coming year in the
elections held last week. In the same bal-
loting R. T. Coit and T. M. Phifer were
elected vice-presidents.

Rufus Morrow, Lynn Huie, Francis Scott,
Wee Thompson, and Duck Powell were nom-
inated for the office of president. The final
ballot was between Thompson and Huie.

Don Bailey, Bob Coit, Tommy Phifer,
Walter Sprunt, Ben Rose, and Kenneth
Weeks were selected from the Sophomore
class as candidates. for vice-president of
the Y. M. C. A.

“Wee” Thompson has made an enviable
record since he entered Davidson in the
fall of 1930. Besides his active work in
the “Y’’ he is a managing editor of the
Davidsonian, and played on the football
squad, He is.a member of Kappa Sigma
social fraternity, the International Relations
Club, Beaver Club, Delta Pi Alpha, Eta
Sigma Phi, and Delta Pi “Kappa. In his
Freshman year he won the Alumni Asso-
ciation scholarship medal for the highest
average in his class.

Bob Coit is from Richmond, Va. He is a
member of Le Cercle Francais, and took a
leading part in the recent club play. Tommy
Phifer’s home is in Columbia, S. C. He is
one of the most popular members of the
Sophomore class, and played on the varsity
basketball squad. He was on the Freshman
tennis team last spring.

Thirteen Men Form “Y”
Deputations Last Week

The Y deputations for this week included
a number of out-of-town trips and promised
good results to any of those who may have
taken part in them.

Sunday morning at 11 o’clock a church
service was conducted by a deputation at
Sherrill’s Ford. John Richards preached a
fine sermon. He was accompanied by Avery
Patton, who helped furnish the special
music.

At 2:10 Sunday afternoon, Charlie Moore
and Jake Mackorell visited the Y in Char-
lotte on the usual deputation, at which time
Moore spoke to the smaller boys, while
Mackorell addressed the older group.

Sunday evening a deputation went to
Queens-Chicora College in Charlotte. The
vesper service was led by Paul Brown.
Leslie Thompson made the talk, and the
special music was furnished by the David-
son Quartet.

The deputations continued into the week
with a group sent out Monday night at 7
o’clock. Sidney March was the speaker in
this service at China Grove in Rowan Coun-
ty Farm Life School, a meeting with the
Hi-Y there. Music was furnished by Gor-
don Green and Avery Patton.

Saturday night several Davidson boys will
go to Winston-Salem with Sam Wiley to

(Continued on page 6)

Alpha Phi Epsilon

Alpha Phi Epsilon, national forensic
fraternity, announced Friday that 11
students have accepted bids to mem-
bership. These students are: Jack
Williams, Jr., Waycross, Ga.; Gordon
Brown, River Edge, N. J.; Hugh Haw-
kins, Charlottesville, Va.; Rawling
Pratt-Thomas, Wedgefield, S. C.; Rob-
ert Smith, Mobile, Ala.; E. J. Hum-
phrey, Wilmington; T. P. Caldwell,
Yazoo City, Miss.; W. L. Fugate, Rad-.
ford, Va.; W. E. Rachal, Law Moor,
Va.; D. D. McBryde, Linden; Stuart
Noblin, East Radford, Va.; and Jake
Mackorell, York, S. C.

