THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 22, 1933

The PMavbidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

Member of

Associated Golleginte

2 1933 (anonar] Covenact) 1934 &

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
aaah Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION

RATES: Ten cents per copy;
legiate year.

$2.00 the Col-

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office a USAGE ET
North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd,

mutica oy VG ils vas be in the hands of Managing Editors
y 4:00 o'clock .» Monday. Letters to the Editor are
welcome, but Ae conmunieatlons intended for publication
must be signed.

ODI CASAL eas ooo oon cores ccc ccc cs scare ccccccnsnsssocsesscuss Editor
Wists NOHNSON seeenck Business Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
Gi GUBDE TD Basccccccesiveskcsicccgcsisslanacase Managing Editor
E. F. McPHAIL.. Managing Editor
B. L. SE..... -Managing Editor
K. D, WEFKS. -Managing Editor
JACK HELLIN -Alumni Editor

E. NORVELL, .-Sports Editor

RO
ES
E

wit <7
Zone
z fs)
a
x
>

‘AW : M. Editorial Writer
5 A. HUNTER....... E Editor
. B. BAILEY. Feature Editor
S. K. EATO -Feature Editor
S. C. HENRY ‘Feature Editor
Cc. S. McCALL....... -Feature Editor
D. W. -Review Editor
L. W. CLARDY ack Seueen Editor
A. F. SCHENCK A Editor
W._ M. THOMPSON re Associate Editor
JACK WILLIAMS, JR Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
G. L. GREEN..--.-..- Assistant s Manager
Wi cL SPRUNDscvas ec cliesete ese. Assistant Business Manager
. R. TAYLOR Assistant anager
}: A. C. WADSWORTH Assistant anager
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1933

Toil, so they say, is the eas of fame.
—Euripides.

FORENSICS

The grandeur of Rome and the beauty of
Greece have long since faded, but the products
of their respective Golden Ages in architecture,
statuary, painting, literature, and oratory have
survived Time’s tooth and are the objects of
admiration and wonder of the present day.

It is concerning oratory and its allied fields
that this article proposes to discuss. Most of
us are acquainted with the famous Grecian and
Roman orators who made the forums ring with
their denunciations or proposals; all of u# know
something of the renowned English statesmen
who have made the Houses of Parliament echo
with their eloquence.

The pen is mightier than-the sword, and fluent
words are mightier than two-edged swords. The
power of oratory! It is a marvelous spectacle

to see an audience swayed from one viewpoint |

td another, moved from laughter to tears, from
a lazy antipathy to righteous indignation.

The ability to think is a characteristics not
possessed by many; the ability to think while on
one’s feet is a talent possessed by very few. And
yet this is an essential requirement at some time
or another for every man in whatever vocation
he may pursue. Is it*afforded sufficient prom-
inence and conceded its true worth and impor-
tance?

Nearly everyone who reads these words has
at. one time or another been in an Sey
when he was either called upon to stat@his be-
liefs or thought himself capable of arising and
expressing his opinions. When given the floor
all the carefully prepared thoughts take wings
and you release a stream of unintelligible jargon
in a scared falsetto voice or no sounds come at
all and having cleared your throat and glancing
at the thousands of eyes with which you are sur-
rounded, you hastily slump into your seat feeling
like a thief.

Some possess a natural talent for public speak-
ing, others attain a high degree of perfection
through constant practice, others reach a state
of mediocrity, some are always poor, others will
never be able to speak at all. To whatever class
you may belong, practice and instruction will be
of inestimable value. . What vocation is there
that does not demand this attribute? Lawyers,
ministers, politicians, business men, and teachers
find it an absolute necessity. All others find it
beneficial and helpful. We cannot enumerate all
the vocations that require it or the ways and
means by which a man is improved.

When before an audience are you glued in your
tracks, do your hands seem entirely in the way,
and if you dare move them do your gestures
imitate the flappings of a wounded duck? Think
of your appearance before an audience and real-
ize that it is necessary -for you to gain poise,
self-confidence, command of English, and the
sability to think clearly while on your feet. It
is an indispensable requirement and must be ac-
quired now, if ever.

Literary societies have fallen from grace as
far as the students are concerned in recent years.
They maintained more interest among all stu-
dents in years gone by than any other organiza-
tion. - Their revival is badly needed.

The custom of having Seniors lead chapel ex-
ercises is an excellent one. There is nothing that
can’ bring out the “forensic qualities” in a man
like an appearance before a Davidson audience.

Debating holds the center of the stage in
Forensics at Davidson now. The faculty real-
izes its importance and has co-operated to fur-
ther its development and the interest shown is
also growing in the student body. ° It is recog-
nized as a major extra-curricula activity and the
keen competition in the tryouts this year mani-
fests a changing attitude on the part of the stu-
dent body. Debating is the whetstone of the
wits.

It is your duty to yourself to aid Forensic
activity and to show an active interest therein.

Only through such endeavor can it be said of you,
“Truth from his lips prevailed with double sway,
And fools that came to scoff remained to pray.”

REBUILD FAITH
. In looking over this last so-called Century of
Progress, we look in vain for any progress in
faith.

The Bible tells us that faith is a great thing,
but only a glance is necessary to impress us
with the great part that faith plays in our lives.
Without faith, happiness would be an element
of some Utopia, dreamed of, but never realized.
Without faith, nothing could ever be accom-
plished. '

We have faith that the sun will rise in the
morning, of course, but have we faith in our fel-
lowmen? What faith have you in your best
friend? Whom can you trust? On whom can
you rely? The Bible also subordinates faith to
love, and it is true that faith is the servant of
pure love. But why not faith for faith’s sake?

Absolute trustworthiness seems to have gone
out of style. ,Honesty, unconscious of its pres-
ence, seems to have vanished with “rugged indi-
vidualism” and the storekeeper,who would walk
several miles to pay back an overcharged penny.
The sign, “honesty is the best policy,” has been
taken down, and ‘do your neighbor before he
does you” has been hung up. This has become
a joke, and not a fact to be shamefully regarded.

College men have followed the trend of the
times like sheep. They have a tendency to try
to see how much they can get by with. There
is no doubt but that our economic slump was
greatly if not entirely caused by a sudden snap
in the faith of men in each other. And economic
stability cannot be regained unless our former
faith is built up again. College students seem
to fail. to realize that it is they that in a few
years must rebuild this faith, and they are not
striving to engender it in themselves. What.a
wonderful world this would be if everyone could
be absolutely trusted! That is an Utopian idea,
of course, but certainly it will hurt no one to do
his part. A good name is worth far more than
holding such will ever cost one. —G. L. G.

SEEKING YOUR JOB

In this new era of changing political, economic,
and social life, the college graduate is going to
find it very difficult to secure a job. Four or
five years ago, he would have found employers
eagerly offering him jobs with as good a salary
as an inexperienced man could wish for. The
job is not seeking the man today; the man must
do the seeking, and he is going to encounter a
great deal of competition. The ranks of the job-
seekers have increased, and the employer has a
very large number to choose from; naturally,
the’ employer is going to choose that individual
who, in his estimation, has the most ability for
the job he is offering.

What we must emphasize in job-seeking today
is selling yourself. As a salesman sells his wares,
so you must sell your services. The employer
is your customer; convince him that you are the
man he is looking for, and that your services are
valuable to him.

Before you can present a a convincing argument
you must have confidence. Don’t underrate your
abilities but, at the same time, don’t over-rate
them. In order to make the employer have con-
fidence in you, you must have confidence in your-
self.

Applying for a job nowadays is not to be ap-
proached in any haphazard manner. You should
analyze your employer as to his likes and dis-
likes as much as possible, so that you can con-
duct yourself, during the interview, in a way that
will appeal to him. Find out all you can about
your employer and the job that you are after,
so that you can have a well-planned method of
approach,

A neat appearance is most important. One of
the best ways of creating a favorable first im-
pression is neatness and correctness in dress.
The man who shows care and tidiness in appear-
ance lends the impression to the employer that
he will show the same in his job.

Cheerfulness, courtesy, and truth are all essen-
tial qualities to be observed in your interview.
Whether you are filling out an application blank
or being questioned in an interview, tell the
truth, for it will pay you in the long run. Try
to be cheerful even though you -haven’t a dime
in your pocket and your shoes are worn through.
The employer is not likely to be very impressed
with a spiritless, pessimistic sort of individual.

This is a new era, and successful job hunting
is no more an aimless tramping of the streets,
and wandering from door to door; it has be-
come a, science which requires careful, painstak-
ing study. -

There are plenty of good jobs, and one of those
good jobs is yours if you will start planning for
it at an early date.
your services, and the best salesman gets the
best job.—Gordon Green.

Here and There

The students of Kenyon College, Columbus,
Ohio, recently applied for permits to sell beer
in the men’s dormitory and restaurant.

Excuses for oversleeping and missing 8 o’clocks
are being done away with at Ohio University.
Four band members will play reveille from the
library steps to arouse late sleepers.

Football was abolished in favor of horseshoe
pitching at Long Island University this year.

The only utility for grades at the University
of-Chicago is for purposes of transfer to other
institutionis.

Remember- you.-are ‘selling’

NEWS DIGEST

NEW TECHNIQUE

Secretary of Labor Frances Perkins,
speaking before the Merchants Asso-
ciation of New York, said that in order
to get the fullest amount of stimula-
tion out of the President’s recovery
program, a new technique and another
refinement would be necessary. She
continued by saying that the NRA had
already done a great deal and that the
industrial balance provided by it would
be an added factor in carrying it to
success.

MAIL ROBBERY

Gangdom invaded. our own little city
of Charlotte last Wednesday in one of
the most daring crimes of its history.
‘A mail truck was halted and robbed by
some bandits, yet unknown, the
amount of loot being estimated unoffi-
cially at between $100,000 and $250,000.
Every effort is being made to capture
the parties responsible for the crime.

CAPITALISM DIES
Mussolini chants, the funeral dirge
of the death of capitalism: Hitler pro-
nounces and applauds its fall. Russia
has long celebrated its demise. And
the world is wondering when the other

great nations will fall in line.

But whether we denounce it or up-
hold it, it has been a world-order, a
system which has long held sway in
the history of the world. It has been
responsible for the greatest creation of
wealth in history. It has caused the
establishment of that truly American
institution, the corporation. Society is
in its debt. Its qualities have not all
been evil. Its virtues have been real
virtues. The desert of feudalism has
been filled with blossoms. And even
now those who advocate a change can-
not give ws a_ satisfactory, principle
with which to replace it.

KIDNAP MURDER

The strange kidnapping of Brooke
Hart, 22-year-old son of a San Jose
merchant, is at an end. Thomas H.
Thurmond and Jack Holmes have con-
fessed that they were the assailants
and that they killed the young man
and threw his body in the bay before
demanding a $40,000 ransom from his
father.

RELIGION

Germany is planning to reform re-
ligion. The Hitler authorities are ban-
ning the Old Testament, certain pal-
pably superstitious parts of the New
Testament, and removing all crucifixes
from the churches. The reason for
removing the crucifixes is because they
represent the Jews, an alien people.
However, the more educated realize
that the crucifix is a product of Ro-
mans and not a Jewish institution.

HUEY LONG

Huey Long is about to be “treed”
by the indignant people who have fol-
lowed his colors for years. The senate
committee investigating the 1932 sena-
torial primary electioi™ has already
heard evidence relating to confiscation
of funds for other purposes and the
graft and ¢rookedness which filled the
election under consideration. Crowds
have cheered each bit of incriminating
evidence and it looks as if the people
of Louisiana are tired of the Long
regime and ready for a change.

FLOATING PLATFORMS

The U. S. is prepared to spend a
million and a half to establish a sea-
drome for transatlantic Purposes about
five hundred miles from shore. It will
be about».one-quarter the size which
was originally ihtended and will be
used as a,landing and refuelling sta-
tion. Germany already has a refuel-
ling ship in the South Atlantic and
has found it very satisfactory.

RUSSIA RECOGNIZED

After a sixteen-year lapse the old
Russian embassy in Washington will
again be occupied by a Russian am-
bassador. Litvinoff, the Russian com-
misar, and President Roosevelt have,
after about a week of conferences,
finally reached a decision whereby the
U. S. resumes all former trade and
dpilomatic relations. Propaganda | of
all kinds, however, will be barred, Also,
the civil’and religious rights of Ameri-
cans in Russia will be guaranteed.

TEAPOT DOME

Death has claimed one of the most
famous witnesses of the Teapot Dome
investigation. -Deving the inquiry, he
first sprang into national limelight. A
subpoena was issued for him to ap-
pear as a witness, but for almost a
month the investigation was at a
standstill because the witness could not
be found. He was finally discovered,
however, on his farm in Maryland and
delivered evidence which Proved of

great importance. His name was James
G. Darden.

Rifle Team Plans
Several Matches

Sharpshooters Will Be Coached
by Captain Seifert

The Davidson rifle team, with
Francis Scott as captain, Gordon Green
as manager, and Captain Seifert as
coach, anticipates a highly successful
season, which will last from February
10 to March 24, 1934. Correspondence
matches have been scheduled for Feb-
ruary 17 with the University of Mary-
land and with Washington University ;
for March 3, with the University of
Wisconsin and with Lehigh Univer-
sity; and for March 10, with the New
York Stock Exchange.

Arrangements have also been made
for a shoulder-to-shoulder match with
the Gastonia Rifle Club, and, if pos-

sible, one will be arranged with N. C. |'

State. The selection of the 15 or 20
men Who will comprise the team will
be through an elimination contest
some time early in 1934,

Last year’s team, captained by Paul
Brown, beat Rose Polytech by a score
of 3947 to 3438, Montana State College
by 1766 to 1717, and Michigan State
College by 3452 to 3422. Material for
this year’s team seems ,promising, and
prospects are even better than those
of last year, it was stated.

HOOD ASKED TO AID
IN AD RESEARCHES

(Continued from page 1)

many advertisements are not based on
sound psychological arguments, it is
expected that certain definite facts re-
lating to advertising appeal will be re-
vealed, which will radically alter ad-
vertisements displayed by magazines,
billboards, and the like.

Dr. Hood stated that sixty psychol-
ogy departments of various colleges
throughout the country are engaged in
the research, and that’ Davidson con-
siders it a signal honor to be included
in the list of those participating.

WILLIAM & MARY BOWS
TO DAVIDSON ’CATS, 12-7

(Continued from page 1)

Davidson Posi. W. & M.
Morgan L.E. Henderson
Siewers “L.T, Stuart
Potter LG. Shack
McElrath Center Bridges
Rives (C) R.G. Darden
Cathey R.T, Quirk
Windham R.E Murray
Mackorell Q.B. Shade
Hutchins H.B. Bryant
Wingfield R.H. Young
Wilson F.B Worrell
Score by periods:
Davidson 0 6 0—12
WiréceMisccos a s8 7 0 O7
Scoring: Touchdowns, Davidson:
Wingfield, 2; William and Mary:

Johnson (sub for Franklin); pdint
after touchdown, William and Mary:
Stuart (placement).

Officials: Referee, Sanders (W. &
L.); umpire, Jackson (E. & H.);
headlinesman, Frew (W. & L).

Substitutions — Davidson: Verble,
West, Grant, Lee, Yarborough, Le-
Gore, Hand, Batte; William and
Mary: Shade, Smitk, Wallace, Young,
Johnson, Upson, Myers, Darden, Beak-
er, Soreson.

On Other Campuses

LEHIGH

The Pennsylvania highway patrol re-
cently confiscated twenty- -five cars be-
longing to students at Lehigh Univer-
sity. They were inspected by the po-
lice department, and were classed by
the judge as relics unfit to operate in
the streets. Well, what about local
“ push-ems”’?

MARQUETTE

Marquette University’s football team
has the fastest water-boy in the world
serving it. He is none other than the
renowned Olympic track star, Frank
Metcalf. We recommend to the Mar-
quette forces the original “ water-boy
play” as displayed by the master-mind-
ed Georgians in the recent Georgia-
Watts classic!!

WASHINGTON

We pass this on as a significant bit
of news of the week: The University
of Washington is giving a course in
“bluffing,” and it is to~be~given™ in
conjunction with the History and Eng-
lish departments, There is no neces-
sity of such a course at Davidson!
Most of us are past masteras at the
art!

V. M. I.

On Armistice Day the Virginia Mili-
tary Institute celebrated jointly its
ninety-fourth birthday and the fif-
teenth anniversary of the signing of
the Armistice. The celebration was
marked by the firing of an artillery
salute, a review of the battalion, and
an address by Dr. Douglas S. Freeman,
editor of the Richmond News-Leader.

OHIO STATE

There is a twelfth position on the
football team at Ohio State Univer-
sity. The extra position is called the
“Humorist.” During the games, he
sits on the bench, and wears a uni-
form at all practices. His job is to
keep the team in a humorous state
of mind, and to prevent them from be-
coming nervous before a big game.
Fifty men answered the coach’s ¢all
for the job, for which the selected man
will receive a varsity letter at the end
of the season,

CAROLINA

Friday before Homecoming game
was a dangerous day for all hapless
males that passed by the co-ed “domi-
cile” wearing a white shirt; every man
so attired was stopped and the shirt
removed either by force or persuasion.
A crowd soon gathered to watch the
fun, contemplating on whether the co-
eds were planning a shirt-tail parade.
As this was being considered, a
streamer, made out of a clothes line
of shirts, was flung from a window,
each shirt bearing a letter which when
hung out“made a slogan, “Welcome
Alumni.”

FLORIDA

Leniency is apparently not a part
of the make-up of the Freshman Guid-
ance Committee at the University of
Florida, Last Thursday night, nine of-
fenders came before the committee
and received a ‘total of sixty licks as
punishment for violating freshman

rules.

SATA eg

=

STATIONERY

CALLING CARDS

FRATERNITY PAPERS

Printing of all Types at Reasonable Rates

PROGRAMS

See BILL JOHNSON
e

203 Watts

@ Garland Court -

WW

im

=) Standard Printing Company

CHARLOTTE, N.C. @

AAA

Ts

321 Healy Building

Go to Europe Next Summer!

This is the ideal graduation gift or
summer vacation for college stu-
dents. Plans are being made to

visit all different countries, and the
cost is unbelievably low.

See Jack Williams, Jr., our Davidson Representative
for particulars.

John L. Moyers Tours Co.

: Atlanta, Georgia

