THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 26, 1933

Books

Cavalcade: Noel Coward: New York; Gross-
et and Dunlap, 1933.

The movies haven't been particularly
prominent in any lines of publication. True,
our magazine market is drenched in a pleth-
ora of motion picture magazines, telling the
diets, the social life, and the milder scandals
of our more prominent Hollywood Tespians.
However, books by members of the pro-
fession are limited to an occasional novel by
Elissa Landi, or a cheap edition of Clara
Bow’'s Autoblography. Due, probably, to
the fact that all good picture scenarids are
taken from formerly successful plays or
novels, scenarios are never published.

That is, they were never published until
the appearance of Mr. Coward’s Cavalcade.
True, it is called a play, but it is obviously
a motion picture scenario. It was performed

* on the stage in London last season, and the
general concensus of critical opinion agreed
that the stage limited the panoramic effect
of the piece.

In order that the critics might not shake
teasing fingers in his direction, Mr. Coward
dubbed his play “sentimental trash” before
it appeared. Cavalcade will be called senti-
mental trash by almost everyone who reads
it, but only because the readers will be
ashamed to tell how much they were really
moved by this remarkably simple little epic,
It is an epic of the intimate, cosy, unbeliev-
able type. Though its construction is flimsy,
and some of the characters are merely
named, it contains a grain of something
that cannot be passed off when the book is
laid aside.

The history of England during the last

thirty-five years is told through two fami-|.

lies, the Marryots, aristocrats, and the
Bridges, their servants. The action is
sprinkled with nostalgic songs and refer-
ences to public men of each period; giving
the whole play an unbelievable reality.

The action is developed through Jane Mar-
ryot’s eyes. The entire play Pivots about
her personality. She is drawn with careful
little touches, while the other characters
are merely sketched. At the beginning, she
is a young wife, seeing her husband leave

Some Come Sooner, Some Later |{i_

Eventually ALL
Johnson’s Barber Shop

for the Boer war. At the final curtain
Jane, now Lady Jane, with one son drowned
on the Titafiic, the other killed in France,
makes her toast to 1930: “Let’s drink to our
sons who made part of the pattern and to
our hearts that died with them. Let’s drink
to the spirit of gallantry and ‘courage that
made a strange heaven out of an unbeliev-
able hell, let’s drink to the hope that one
day this country of ours, which we love so
much, will find dignity and greatness and
peace again.”

A story of one family, it is the story of
all families; the history of one nation, it is
the history of mankind. If this be “senti-
mental trash,”° Mr. Coward may feel com-
plimented at being dubbed “trashy.”

Scientists Treated
When Peak Rampages

Durango, ,Co.—(IP)—Scientists who have
been studying the strange disintegration of
Carbon Mountain near here were treated to
another laboratory view of the process last
week when the restless peak went on a ram-
page again.

Persons living within miles of the moun-
tain were startled when they heard thou-
sands of tons of rock tumble down the
mountainside for nearly an hour.

MEMBERS CHOSEN TO
“Y” BOARD OF CONTROL

(Continued from page 1) »

Professor Bailey was selected to serve on
the board by popular acclamation of the
student body. He takes the place of Pro-
fessor L, B. Schenck, whose term of office
has expired.
Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, Prof. L. B. Schenck,
and Mr. F. L. Jackson are the present fac-
wlty members, while Lyman Clardy, William
Flynn, Robert Glasgow, L. M. Huie and Rob-
ert McCallie are the student members of the
board.
The members ex-officio are Rev. H. M.
Moffett, Dr’ W. L. Lingle, Paul Brown and
Sam Wiley. ~°
The Board of Control handles the finances
and other important business of the local
Y M.CA.

a

NOTICE
Have your shoes rebuilt at the
DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP
Work done while you wait.
Cc. A. KENNEDY, Proprietor

-

a

“DRUGS”

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

Make Our Store Your Store
Student Supplies

WHITE DRUG CO.,, Inc.

®
“SODAS”

“SUNDRIES”

Richmond,

all over the religious world. None

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., LL.D., President
A graduate of Davidson and of Union studying abroad writes:

“There are able scholars here whose books are known and read

professors at Union as teachers, and none of them can challenge a
student to joyous, practical Christianity as did our professors there.”

Virginia

of them can surpass some of our

TOBACCOS
STUDENT

FOUNTAIN SERVICE
WwW. S. HENDERSON

NEXT DOOR TO POSTOFFICE

CANDY
SUPPLIES

it:

is
e

— 5° 2 Ww.LA PITZ

| TAILORING DISPLAY at the Soda Shop
_ EVERY THURSDAY

Star Direct Tailors - $23.50 Up

—

. ._ B. O. RAVENEL
Student Representative

Unusual Meeting Is :
Held by Phi Society

A very well-rounded meeting was enjoyed
by the members of the Philanthropic Lit-
erary Society on Tuesday, April 11.

Cameron Deans read a humorous selec-
tion entitled “Gushers.” Bili Fugate followed
with a talk on “The Political Situation in
Europe.” Particulars of the Hitler regime
and its far-reaching influence were related,
and a very absorbing conjecttre was made
as to the courses which would be followed
by the European states in case war should
break out among them.

A very clever debate between ; Robert
Johnson of the affirmative and W. M. Beatty
representing the negative was given on the
question: “Resolved: That a_ thirty-hour
week should be established.” The decision
was rendered in favor of the affirmative.

A proposal for an inter-society debate was
discussed, but no definite plans have as yet
been made for this debate.

Silver Screen

Wednesday, April 26—Central Airport

This picture, starring. Richard Barthel-
mess, brings him back to the role which
has always. seemed. to fit him best. He is
shown as a crack pilot, and seems to live
in the role. Sally Eilers plays with him,
and also is at her best. The show is not
dull, gives something different, and should
be very good.

Thursday, April 27 —The Kid Frém Spain
Eddie Cantor is none other than Don Se-
bastin, II, the matador of great renown. Of
course, Eddie does not know which end of
the bull is the front, but that does not de-
tract from the interest of the picture. And,
as usual, the beautiful girls are there galore.
The picture should be even’ more enticing
than it seems, and should not be missed.‘

Friday, April 28—Elmer the Great

Joe E. Brown’and his mouth are back
again, and the mouth is larger than before,
and speaks funnier. Again he is in the role
of a baseball ‘player, but that should not
lean towards too much repetition. Even with
the same thing, there is always originality
in his person.

Saturday, April 29—Jungle Bride and Tele-
graph Trail
Nothing more can be said than two pic-
tures are presented. Both of the pictures
are said to be rather slow and a trifle dull,
but should help to pass away a few hours of
leisure time. )

Monday and Tuesday, May 1 and 2—King
Kong

At last a really great representation of
prehistoric life is brought to the movie-goer.
Not by any means does the show cling di-
rectly to the sane and sober, but it shows
life as we think it should be sometimes. The
adventures of a movie company are. shown
in Africa with all the prehistdric animals
of any importance, and the giant ape, 60
feet high, is brought back to New York.
There the fun begins, when the ape ascends
the Empire State Building with Fay Wray
in his arms. Besides King Kong and Fay
Wray, Bruce Cabot and Robert Armstrong
do themselves well. The show is a fine one
for strong nerves, and nothing could be bet-
ter to increase the imagination.

MANSON, KIRKLAND CHOSEN
VICE-PRES. AND SEC.-TREAS.
OF THE RISING SENIOR CLASS

(Continued from page ‘1)

In the rising Junior class elections, the
following men were,nominated for the posi-
tidn of vice-president: Dave McLain, Fred
McPhail, Joe Wadsworth, and Hugh Yelver-
ton. For the office of secretary-treasurer,
the nominees were Charlie Harris, Jim Hurst,
and Pete Neill,

In the first ballot, McPhail was elected to
the vice-presidential office, and Harris to

‘the secretary-treasurership.

Fred McPhail, a member of the Kappa
Alpha social fraternity, was a member of
last year’s Student Council, and also belongs
to the Spanish Club. He was recently elect-
ed to a position as one of the managing ed-
itors of The Davidsonian and will represent
his fraternity on the Pan-Hellenic Council
tor next year. McPhail has already won
enough points to guarantee a varsity letter
in track this year.

Charlie Harris will captain next year’s bas-
ketball team. He has been showing up well
in the pitcher’s position on this year’s base-

_.|ball_team,Harris:is_associated with the Pi

Kappa Alpha social fraternity.
The date of the election of officers to the
rising Sophomore class has not yet been

leave few other student body ballots to be

announced. The close of these elections will]

New Libary Books

Literary Contest

>

The college librarian has announced that
the library has purchased the following;
books selected’ from a list of the most pop-
ular recent books:

Paduick: Temple Gardener of Cairo.

Buchan: The Gap in the Curtain.

Seldes:*The Years of the Locust.

Byrne: A Woman of the Shee.

Mobon: Maria Theresa of Austria.

Hawthorne: Romantic Rebel.

Strode: The Story of Bermuda.

Dallas: The Romance of a Renegade.

Mansfield: Bliss and Other Stories.

Barnett: The Land of Lochiel and the
Magic West. .
Grotton: The Three Jameses. _

Franck: Foot Loose in the British Isles.
Garvin: The Life of Joseph’ Chamberlain.
Lockwood: Pioneer Days in Arizona.
Franklin D. Roosevelt: Looking Forward.
Stone: What is Boy’s Work.

Ruxton: Wild Life in the Rocky Moun-
tains.

Blaushord: What's the Matter With New
York?

Sugimoto: A Daughter of the ‘va kin.

Lyric Virginia To-Day: An Anitiology of
Poems by Contemporray Poets of the Old
Dominion, My

Wagner: Korea.

Neihardt: Black Elk Speaks.

Petrie: Seventy Years in Archaeology.

Tillich: The Religious Situation.

Hartshorne: Character in Human Relation.

Radio and Education in 1932,

Powers: The Indian as Peacemaker.

Lockhart: British Agent.

ANNUAL BOWERY BALL
IS BRILLIANT AFFAIR

(Continued from page 1)

Phi Delta Theta: Misses Roseanne How-
ard, Kitty ‘Cunningham, Rock Hill, S. C.;
Lib Geay, Winston-Salem; Mary Brooks,
Bluefield, W. Va.

Phi Gamma Delta: Misses Mary Lib Cun-
ningham, Alice Grubbs, Tut Gorrell, Greens-
boro; Dot Hines, Durham; Ellen White,

Concord; Lib Price, Charlotte; Dorothy
Dosch, Durham.
Pi Kappa Phi: Misses Mildred Lorick,

Louise Dyess, Augusta, Ga.; Betty Barton,
Greenwood, S. C.; Dot Miller, Rock Hill,
S. C.; Lib Nolan, Spartanburg, S. C.; Cor-
rine Ellison, Lancaster, S. C.; Louise Mel-
chor, Mooresville; Jean Wheeler, Charlotte;
Mary Clare Stokes, Wilson; Thelma Tuten,
Jonesboro, S. C.; Clabourn Bunch, Rock Hill,
S. C.; Lib Limehouse, Orangeburg, S. C.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Misses Louise Ran-
in, Eleanor Steadman, Fayetteville.

Sigma Phi Epsilon: Misses Harriet Moore,
Frances Matheson, Charlotte; Miriam Stev-
enson, Winston-Salem; Bessy Cheatan, Dur-
ham.

Theta Upsilon Omega: Misses Elizabeth
Gatewood, Danville, Va.; Peggy Ashcraft,
Charlotte; Frances Medlin, Charlotte; Ka-
lista Hood, Davidson; Marie Wishart, Lum-
berton; Martha Neal, Salem.

Pi Kappa Alpha: Misses Sis Wiley, Rock

Students with literary ability will be in-
terested to know that “Hound and Horn,”
prominent American magazine, is sponsoring
a contest open to all undergraduates in the
United States for the best piece of prose
and verse.

In order to stimulate interest in young
writers in this country, a prize of $100.00
for the best short story, not to exceed 5,000
words, and a prize of $50.00 for the best
piece of verse, not to exceed five pages, have
been offered. A great many contributions
from thirty-seven states and as many col-
leges have been submitted.

The’contest will be open to all undergrad-
uates in the United States until June 1,
1933.

Eu Literary Society
Has Varied Program

A variegated program and business dis-
cussion occupied the attention of the Eu-
menean Literary Society on Tuesday night,
April 11.

William Singleton opened the program
with a delightful talk on “Beauty.” He de-
veloped the central thought, that beauty
makes life worth living, by explaining and
giving examples of the four kinds of beauty:
physical, intellectual, moral, and spiritual.

An open forum was held on the subject of
“Resolved: That the capital of the United
States should be more centrally located.”
After a vigorous discussion, the negative
side was awarded the decision by a vote
of the house. 5

The question of the society’s securing a
bronze plaque in memory of Woodrow Wil-
son was discussed as the first item of busi-
ness, and the decision upon the matter was
postponed.

Considerable discussion was aroused as to
whether credit should be given’ to members
who represent the society on deputations to
other colleges.. It was decided to give cred-
its for this service.

Girl Scouts Choose
Teaching as Career

New York—(IP)—Teaching is still the
favorite profession of American girls, ac-
cording to a poll taken recently by the Girl
Scouts.

Of 10,575 girls between the ages of 11
and 18 interviewed by the organization, 9,962
said they expected to support themselves.
Sixty-four per cent of them wanted profes-
sional careers, and the majority planned to
become teachers. Nursing came second in
popularity in a list which included writing,
dancing, window dressing, interior decorat-
ing, newspaper: work and acting—in the
movies,

Isabel White, Concord; Katherine Bonitz,
Margaret Sellers, Greensboro; Kitty Van
Echop, Charlotte; Gamelle Raney, Salisbury;

Hill, S. C.; Caroline Rowan, Esther Brown,

Cynthia Barnes, Anderson, S. C.

foreign territory.

?

STUDENTS’ CRUISES

Magazine subscription scholarship workers and crew man-
agers write immediately for very best student scholarship offers
of leading publishers. Can be worked there now. Permanent posi-
tions if experienced, also summer crews for United States and

FOR FULL DETAILS WRITE

The Collegiate Scholarship Institute

219 Republic Building, Miami, Florida

ollege
Printing

Magaziries,

‘‘PREFERRED P-RINTING SERVICE’?

Catalogs,
Handbooks, Etc. al Wh

Nothing too large or small for our plant—Let us serve you
A. M. MANSON, DAVIDSON, .REPRESENTATIVE

6,600 Square Feet. of Floor Space Devoted to Printing,

Always Best

STANDARD PRINTING CO.CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Programs, Newspapers, Bulletins,

8,
Cards and Invitations.

Exclusively.

4

( cere ee

run off.

