J.B: CLARKE,UR. WN

RR Be

:

ad

F-W. OGDEN W.F MULLIS B.E.ALLEN | W.A.FLINN

RETIRING STUDENT.__LEADERS:_Jcrome B. Clark, Jr., of Fayetteville, president of the Student Body; Paul F. Brown,

Jr., of Atlanta, Ga.,.president of the ¥Y. M. C. A.; Charles W. Pearce, of Plant City, Fla, president of the Athletic Association, —

member of football and baseball teams; W. Allen Mebane, Jr., of Burlington, president of Senior class, manager of varsity foot-
ball; Fred W. Ogden, of New Orleans,.La., cadet commander of the Davidson R. O. T. C. unit; W: F. Mulliss, of Martinsburg,
W. Va., president of Pan-Hellenic Council; Brooke E. Allen, of Wilmington, cheerleader; William A. Flinn, of Atlanta, Ga., judge

ee + - - _— ~

| a

A.M. MANSON |

WERRANT

Pa eer eee

E06

ron

of Court of Control. v = |

CLASS OF 1933 GIVES
INDIVIDUAL REMARKS

study, scarcely begun, of man's wonderful
spiritual heritage’ ~ ne

R. L. McCallie: “I expect to enter the
Graduate School at Vanderbilt next year. ”

‘J. T. McClung: “Alenda Lux Ubi Orta
I.bertas—Montani Semper Liberi.”

J. S. Mackorell, Jr.: “May the Davidson
spirit abide in us forever.” ,

C. E. Moore, Jr.: “I’m looking forward
to enjoying the memories of college days.”

D. R. Mower: “Let’s hold to our tradi-
tions.”

J. E. Richards: “We honor Davidson tra-
ditions, but, suggest the retirement of some
of them.” 6 ~

L. T. Newland: “A bone is always right;
go wrong sometimes and see the light.”

S. M. Noblin: “Graduation is not the end,
but rather the beginning of our education.”

. — grets.”
(Continued from page 1)

the unsearchable riches of the Gospel of
Jesus Christ.”

R. K. Gregory: “From a life of fun and
pleasure to a life of toil and labor.”

E. O. Guerrant:.“I hope to enter the Har-
vard Medical School next year.”

H. B. Johnson: “My college career at Da-
vidson has been of great profit to me.”

A. G. Little: “I.am planning to continue
my medical! training at Johns-Hopkins Uni-
versity.”

C. H. Little: “Who can express the im-
pressions of four Davidson years in twelve
words?" .

D. D. McBryde: “T shall continue my

the University of Virginia.”

lie in store for every senior.”

size of the fight in the man.”

fcour years ago?’>

W.
nition of individual worth.”

Davidson man to live honorably.”
Arthur Ross: “We must face the facts.”

___-_ RETIRING ATHLETIC CAPTAINS

TAYLOR

— ATHLETIC CAPTAINS: U. B. Gardner, of .Decatur, Ga., captain football; E. Bruce Peabody, of Charlotte, captain of bas-
ketbali; B. Earle Bradsher, of Mebane, captain of baseball; Fred B. Fleagle, of Davidson, captain of track; Ben B. Taylor, Jr., of
Baton Rouge, La., captain of wrestling; Charles F. Myers, Jr., of Greensboro, captain of tennis; T. P. Caldwell, bf Yazoo City,

Miss., captain of golf. i

Aer

F. W. Ogden: “Repetition only increases
| mistakes; therefore I write finis with no re-

R. B. Orr: “TI plan to study medicine at
A. Patton: “May a most successful future

’ E. B. Peabody: “Davidson's spirit—lt is
not the size of the man in the fight, but the

C. W. Pearce: “In my opinion no senior
regfets having entered here as a freshman

M. E. Rachat: “Davidson needs less
small group spirit and more general recog-

Robinson: “ May it be the desire of every

.|carry us to victory wherever we go.”

“A.ROSS,J

R.

RETIRING PUBLICATIONS LEADERS: Edward O. Guerrant, of Altadena,
Calif., editor-in-chief of\ "The Davidsonian”; A. Mac Manson, of Jacksonville, Fla., busi-
ness manager of “The Davidsonian,” member of golf team; Robert L. McCallie, of
Chattanooga, Tenn., editor of “Quips and Cranks,” member of track team; W. C. Thomp-
son, of Round Point, Maine, business manager of “Quips and Cranks”; M. Rives Pope,
of Talladega, Ala. editor of the “Wowl,” director of Davidson orchestra; Arthur Ross,
Jr., of Asheboro, business manager of the “Yowl.”

W. W. Seymour: “Davidson marks a dis-| very pleasant—now for some good hard
tinct epoch in my life.” A work.”
J. A. Smith: “College days are practically] P. E. West: “I feel that Davidson College
over, and much lies before me.” has broadened me mentally, morally and
J. J. Stewart: “I hate to leave because | Physically.”
I never know what lies ahead.” R. A. Whitfield: “I know of no school that
J. G. Womble: “I will have pleasant rec-|has better influence on its students.”
ollections of Davidson because of the fine! J.C, Whitley: “The ties of friendship that

professors.” have been found at Davidson will last for-
E. W. Shackelford: “I hope that every-| ever.”

_ wit enloy Davidson as much as I Have." E. G. Williams: “ Davidson's gift: closest
b . use: Regrets are futile, hopes friendships, most valued contacts, most cher-
are better. . . ished ideals and memories.”
| B. B. Taylor: “My diploma will represent! C. R. Wright: “Reminiscences will indu-
realization of my own ignorance. Isn’t that] . ~~~ right: eminiscences wi inc u-
tiably spontaneously rehabilitate my medita-

education?” . f bt :
A. L. Thompson: “The Wildcat spirit will HONS Of superDly spent, seasons at David-
son.

J. M. Wagner: “What we have learned
here can never be taken from us.”

W. B. Ward: “It is my hope that the
Davidson campus will soon be made a wild
life sanctuary.” __. ,

Ansley Watson:

i

War is like an earthquake or a flood: after
the disaster there is less-material wealth to
hand on to succeeding generations. What-
ever is destroyed is gone; that is the imme-

“Everything has been]}diate and certain result—William T. Foster.

