4

| | 4 a
RED AND BLACK NINE MEN
MASQUERS TO RECEIVED
GIVE FINAL PLAY INTO O. D. K.
: Alenda Lux Gbi Orta Libertas
Vol. XX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 10, 1933 No. 29

NOTED SCIENTISTS

AT DAVIDSO

North Carolina Academy of Science
Holds Important Convention on
Campus Last Week

NEW OFFICERS ELECTED

Dr. McConnell Makes Address of Wel-
come to Open Session

Davidson had as her guests on Friday and
Saturday of last week a large group of noted
scientists in the North Carolina Academy of
Science which held its annual meeting here.
There was a large registration of men and
women representing the science departments
of all the institutions of higher learning in
the state.

On Friday, the morning hours from 9:30
to 1 p. m. were given over to the reading
of scientific papers presented to the Acad-
emy. At 1 o’clock the body was entertained
at luncheon by the college, in the banquet
hall of Chambers Building. The afternoon
sessions were again devoted to presentation
of papers and to business sessions of the
Academy and its executive committee.

In the evening session, held at 8:30 in
Chambers Auditorium, Dr. J. Moore McCon-
nell, dean of the Davidson faculty, made the
address of welcome on behalf of the David-
son officials and students. This Was fol-
lowed by the presidential address, delivered
by Dr. J. B. Bullitt of North Carolina Uni-
versity. This meeting was open to the gen-
eral public and was largely attended by
students and other visitors.

At the sessions held on Saturday, the vis-
itors were divided into their respective fields.
The chemistry section met in the Martin
chemical laboratory and the general, the
mathematics and the physics sections met
“in Chambers. Aff science teachers, whether
members of the Academy or not, were in-
vited to attend \these meetings.

The convention was formally closed at
noon on Saturday, May 6. At this time it
was announced that the next annual meet-
ing will be held at the University of North
Carolina, at Chapel Hill, in the spring of
1934. :

At this same time, the various sections of
the Academy announced the names of their
respective section officers for the coming
year. These are: Chemistry Section, Chair-
man, H. D. Crockford, U. N. C.; vice-chair-
man, J. H. Saylor, Duké; secretary-treas-
urer, R. W. Bost, U. N. C.; Councilor, N.
Ishell, Wake Forest; executive committee,
the officers and F. W. Sherwood, N. C.
State, three years; L. A. Bigelow, Duke, two
years; A. S. Wheeler, U. N. C., one year.
' The Mathematics Section elected as chair-
man, E. L. Mackie, U. N. C., and secretary,
E. R. C, Miles, Duke. The officers of the
Physics Section are: E. K. Plyler, U. N. C.,,
chairman, and C. N. Warfield, W. C. of
U.N. C,, secretary.

Dr. Frazier Hood, professor of psychology,
was elected a member of the Academy of
Science.

Dr. Arbuckle’s Brother
Passes Away Suddenly

Students and townspeople of Davidson
were deeply regretful to learn of the death
of Dr. J. D. Arbuckle, of Maxwelton and
Lewisburg, West Virginia.

The late Doctor Arbuckle, who passed
away quite unexpectedly last Wednesday
morning, was the brother of Dr. H. B. Ar-
buckle, head of the Chemistry Department
of Davidson College. The Davidson profes-
sor left here for Lewisburg, when news otf
the death reached him.

The deceased was a graduate of Hampden-
Sydney College, and a member of the Pi
Kappa Alpha-social fraternity.

_DOFFLEMYER CALLED HOME

Alfred A. Dofflemyer, a member of the
Junior class, was called to his home at Elk-
ton, Va., last Wednesday, May 3, because
of the death of his mother. His mother had
been ill for some time with heart trouble,

and it is to this that her death was attrib-,

uted.

|
|
|
|
|
|

GATHER *Antoanced for May

Covers Three Days

OMICRON DELTA KAPPA TAPS

N FOR MEETING

|Dr. Henry Sloane Coffin of New York

Senior Marshall

\

Alex Little, of Valdosta, Ga., of the
Senior~class, has recently been chosen
chief marshall for the commencement
exercises of this year. He was select-
ed from a group of four junior mar-
shalls, which included Bill Miulliss,
Charlie Norfleet, and Bruce Peabody.

In the coming exercises, Little will
have charge of the seating arrange-

ments, and will also lead the line of
da

pr

1933 YEAR BOOK
TO BE RELEASED
WITHIN 10 DAYS

Many Changes Have Been Made in
the Composition of This Year’s
Annual

each a

It was recently announced by Bob Mc-
Callie, editor of this year’s “Quips and

Cranks,” that the Davidson yearbooR~vouth}——

be released within the next ten days. Mce-
Callie, whose home is in Chattanooga, Tenn.,
and W. C. Thompson, of Round Pound,
Maine, have charge of the publication.

“Quips and Cranks” will have 265 pages,
which is 40 less than last year’s. This is
due to the fact that there will be three
senior pictures to the page instead of the
usual two. The style of the annual will be
simple-and colorless. :

Many changes have been. made in
yearbook for this year. There will be no
write-up of the junior activities. Pictures of
all the underclasses will be larger this year,
with freshmen pictures twice as large as
they were last year.

A campus section of snapshots that are
familiar and some that are not so familiar
will add interest to the yearbook. These
snapshots are of people and objects around
the campus.

There will be individual pictures of letter-
men in. football, basketball, track and base-
ball. More space has been given to action
pictures in these sports.

The sponsor section is also different from
that of last year.» Al}--the sponsors this
year have*on the same cut dresses, which
will add uniformity to this section. The pic-
tures will be on different paper from the
rest of the annual. There will be a silver
border around each picture.

Much credit for the success of the book
goes to Lyman Clardy, the photographic ed-
itor, who relieved the editor-in-chief of the
most complicated part of the book. In ac-
tive make-up work the following assistants
gave invaluable aid: Lanier Pratt, Jack Wil-
liams, Alex Schenck, and Tee Thompson.

Jack Williams, of Waycross, Ga., will be
the editor-in-chief for the next year.

Owen Ravenel, of Charleston, S. C., will
succeed W. C. Thompson as business man-

(Continued on page 8)

Alpha Phi Epsilon

Initiates Nine Men

Alpha Phi Epsilon, fraternity
which recognizes ability in oratory and de-

the

honorary

bating, held its annual initiation on Wednes- |

day, May 3. Nine taken into
membership.

The initiated men include Gordon Brown,
of River Edge, N. J.; Wilbur Fugate, of
Radford, Va.; Hugh Hawkins, of Charlottes-
ville, Va.; Edward Humphrey, of Wilming-

ton; Jake Mackorell, of York, S. C.; Stuart

men were

Noblin, of Radford, Va.; Will Rachal, Rob- |

ert Smith, of Mobile, Ala.; and Rawling

City to Deliver Baccalaureate
, Sermon

| ALUMNI DAY IS FEATURED

Seniors to Lead Alumni Discussion
Groups on College Life

The ninety-seventh annual commencement
exercises will take place this year on May
28-May 30. Dr. Henry Sloane Coffin, of
'New York City, who is one of the most
|widely known preachers in the United
| States, will deliver the baccalaureate ser-
/mon,
|} Alumni day will be held on Tuesday and
| several interesting and unusual meetings
jhave been arranged. In the morning there
| will four alumni discussion groups in
|which the students will speak to the alumni
on the different phases of college life, name-
lly, athletics, publications, curriculum, and
|religious life.
| The classes of '83, ‘84, '85, ‘86, ‘02, '03, '04,
|*05, 08, '21, °22, '23, '24, and ’32 will hold their
annual reunion this year.
| The schedule for the three days of com-
{mencement is as follows:

{Sunday, May 28, 11:00 a. m.—Baccalaureate

sermon by Dr. Henry’ Sloane Coffin,

of New York.

7:45 p. m.—Evening sermon

Coffin.

Monday, May 29, 5:00 p. m.—Meeting of
Executive Committee of Alumni Coun-
cil.

8:00 p. m.—Meeting of Alumni Council.

Tuesday, May 30, 10:00 a. m.—Alumni Day—-
Group. discussions.

11:30 a. m—Meeting of Alumni As-|

be

by Dr.

sociation,
1:00 p. m.—Alumni lunch,

3:45 p. m.—Faculty reception.
7:30 p. m.—Graduation exercises.

Class of 1933 Gives
Individual Remarks

Variety of Interesting Statements Are
Made by Davidson Seniors

é

In an effort to give to the student body a
briefly expressed parting thought from each
member of the Senior “The David-
sonian” has conducted a canvass among the
class of 1933, and has obtained a few words
from most of the graduating men. All of
the seniors were sought for interviews, but
some refused to commit themselves to the
extent of the necessary statement.

The following is a list of interviews which
the reporters were able to obtain:

S. J. Bryant: “Davidson friendliness and
spirit makes one leave five hundred friends
on the campus.”

H. K. Boucher: “Davidson is, and always
should be, one of the best colleges for young
gentlemen.”

D. M. Jr.: “Four years in col-
lege should impart recognition of what is
lyet to be learned.” bd
| C. E. Bettis: “Thanks
|what she’s done.”
| F. H. Bixler: “I’ve a job with an insur-
jance company in Philadelphia.”

D. F. Blue: “Oh Davidson, Alma Mater of
(Christian principles, character, leadership,
scholarship, Wildcat spirit.”

J. C. Calhoun: “Despite adverse criticism,
the Davidson spirit has better this
| year.”

E. B. Cannon: “My kids will come to Da-
vidson.”

W. H. Coble: “Farewell, Davidson! Hello,
jworld!!”

R. B,
| speak.”

J. S. Creech: “The future cannot mean as
much as the past four years.”

T. M. Davis: “Davidson serves as an ex-
‘cellent preparatory school for the seminary.”

class,

|
|
|
|
|
|
!
|
| Zernard,

to Davidson for

been

Connoley: “I do not choose to

Pratt-Thomas, of Wedgefield, S. C. R. L. Forbis: “The friendships made at
Three others, T. P. Caldwell, of Yazoo | Davidson have made my years here very en-

City, Miss.; D. D. McBryde, of Linden, and | jcyable.”

Jack Williams, Jr., of Waycross, Ga., were’ F. B. Fleagle: “Farewell to. college.”

unable to attend last week’s meeting and| W. A. Flinn: “Au revoir.”

will be initiated tonight. Election of offi- | C. W. Freeman: “I am going to school

cers for the/coming year will also be held|some more.”

at tonight’s meeting, it was announced by| J. Wayte Fulton: “To’live and to preach

Wayte Fulton, president. (Continued on page 4)

O. D. K. Initiate

Professor Ernest A. Beaty, who has
been honored by Omicron Delta Kappa,
in recognition of his excellent publicity
work for Davidson, and for his work in
the interest of the student body.

DAVIDSON CAMPUS

LEADERS

| Professor Beaty, McKeithan, Ogden,
Casali, Rives, Smyre, Thompson,
Wilson, and West Honored

IMPRESSIVE SERVICE HELD

|
Dr. F. C. Brown, Retiring National
President, Addresses Circle Last
Night

E. A. Beaty, teacher of Latin
and English at Davidson College; W. A. L.
MckKeithan, Aberdeen; F. W. Ogden, New
Orleans, La.; Odi Casali, Welch, W. Va.; C.
M. Rives, Greensboro; F. L. Smyre, Gas-
tenia; W. M. Thompson, Richmond, Va.;
E. L. Wilson, Athens, Tenn., and J. W. West,
Rarium Springs, were tapped by the Delta
Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, national
honorary leadership fraternity, last Friday
morning at the annual spring Tap Day serv-
ices.
Seniors

Professor

and juniors who have attained
some noteworthy distinction on the campus,
or have manifested their leadership. in some
line of activity are chosen for membership.
| This is a national fraternity and it has chap-

|

lters in most of the leading colleges and uni-

versities in the southern portion of the
United States.

Bruce Peabody, president of the local
| kroup, presided at the tapping exercises,

VARSITY LETTERS
TO BE GIVEN ON

Mr. Robert A.. Fetzer, Davidson Grad-
uate, and Former Wildcat Coach,
Will Be Speaker

The annual awarding of varsity letters by
the Athletic Association will be held during
the chapel hour on Tuesday morning, May
16. This has formerly taken place at night,
but the administration has kindly relin-
quished the chapel hour on this date to re-
place “Athletic Night.”

Letters will be awarded to all men out for
the varsity football, basketball, track, base-
Dall, tennis, golf, and. wrestling, who have
been chosen by the respective coaches to
receive their varsity “D.” Also at this time
the physical’ improvement and gymnastic
trophies will be presented to the respective
winners.

Mr. Robert A. Fetzer, athletic director at

In yedrs past the annual “Athletic Night”

was held before the spring sports began,
set the date after the entire year’s sports
program has been completed in order that
all lettermen may receive their certificates

at the same time.

Dr. Chas. F. Myers to
Speak at “Y” Vespers

The annual them yeos GC;
A. will be delivered next. Sunday evening
at the vesper hour by Dr, Charles F. Myers,
pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of
Greensboro, This service marks the offi-
cial closing of the “Y” work for the year
and is considered a part of the commence-
The Davidson Y. M. C. A.
Cabinet confers a singular honor on the man
chosen to lead this climactic service of the
year, and-that Dr. Myers should be elected

sermon before

ment €xercises.

er among the Davidson students.

Dr. Myers is well known to the campus,
having conducted the Evangelistic
Services two years ago and spoken at a|

Spring

, TUESDAY, MAY 16

but this year the Athletic Association has |

is ample proof of his popularity as a speak- |

while Paul Brown conducted the religious
part of the program. Mr. F. L. Jackson,
| treasurer of Davidson College, was the guest
speaker of the occasion, and in his talk he
outlined briefly the purpose ard aim of the
fraternity, He declared that it was spoken
of as “an honor society, and it was indeed
a great honor to be chosen by this group.”
After this part .of the program was over,
the student members of the circle left the
| platform, and tap the men
whom they desired to have with them in
the fraternity, and these new members sig-
nified their the invitation
by rising and walking to the platform, With
this, and the singing of “O Davidson,” the
|spring Tap Day service was closed.
| Professor Beaty was given a bid in recog-
lation of the work which he has done with
| the publicity of the college, and his inter-
jest in the athletics of the school.
| Leland McKeithan was recognized by the
| Delta Circle for his leadership on the cam-
lpus in forensic circles. He is one of the
leading public speakers on the campus and
lis president.of the Forensic Council. \
| Fred Ogden was given acknowledgment
for his outstanding interest in campus af-
\fairs, and also for his holding, the respon-

proceeded to

desire to accept

oor : : , 3 lsible position as lieutenant-colonel. of the
the University of North Carolina, who is a iDynftiera 12) (0), a0, (C, lktievHern
Davidson graduate and former Wildcat) Odi Casali, in recognition of his recent
coach, will be the speaker of the hour. alachon. aereditorincaiiee of (Dhe Davide

sonian,” and his leadership in the journal-
istic field on the campus, was tapped by the
circle,

Charlie Rives, as a leader in athletics, and
| (Continued on page 5)

‘Masquers to Offer
_ Play by Oscar Wilde

On Friday night, May 12, the Red and
Black Masquers will “The Impor-
tance of Being Earnest,” by Oscar Wilde.
This comedy marks the close of the dramatic
club’s season and will be staged in Cham-
bers Auditorium at 8:00 p. m. The play to
be offered is a more ambitious undertaking
than the usual Masquer selection and much
interest surrounds the production,

A talented cast has been in rehearsal since
tLefore Easter and all indications point to
a very acceptable interpretation of the clever
farce. Daily practices conducted by Ed Han-
cock under the supervision of Professor E.
J have moulded the action into a
smooth performance, and the players have
worked out subtle characterizations.

The plot concerns Ernest Worthing and

present

Erwin

vesper service last year. On both occasions!his efforts to win the hand of Gwendolyn
he endeared himself to the Davidson audi-| Fairfax, whose social. career is planned by
ence through his deep spiritual message and| ber ritzy aunt, Lady Bracknell. Ernest’s
his charming personality. wishes are also blocked by his friend, Al-

Dr. Myers is a graduate of Washington } gernon Moncrief, who, in turn, is in love
and Lee University, and while there played| with Cecily Cardew, an unsophisticated girl.
on the varsity baseball team and became a/Cecily is closely guarded by Miss Prism, a

(Continued on page 5) (Continued on page 3) -

