2

DEBATING TEAM
VISITS NORTHERN
COLLEGES

Alenda Lux Gbi Orta Libertas

The Davidsonian

GLEE CLUB STARTS ©
SPRING PERFORM-
ANCES SOON

Vol. XX

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 29, 1933

No. 24

INTERESTING LECTURE 1S
GIVEN THIS AFTERNOON BY
PROF. CHARLES A. BEARD

Noted Historian Speaks in Chambers |
Auditorium to Large Group of |
Students and Townspeople

IS NOTED ECONOMIST

College Library Has’ Many of Au-
thor’s Outstanding Works

An exceedingly interesting lecture was
heard this afternoon at 2:15, given by Mr.
Charles Austin Beard, whois one of the
greatest scholars which the United States
has produced. The text of Mr. Beard’s talk
was not available at the time of this print-
ing.

The college library has many of the
speaker’s works, some of which are: An
Economic Interpretation of the Constitu-
tion of the United States, An Introduction
to the English Historians, Readings in)
American Government’ and Politics, , The |
American Party Battle, and The Economics |
Basis of Politics. Thus, judging from his |
written words which are available to us, |
he is not an entire, stranger to the David-
son campus.

Mr. Beard is classed in Who’s Who in}
America as a university professor. He was
born near Knightstown, Indiana, November
27, 1874, and was the son.of William Henry
and Mary (Payne) Beard. He was a Bach-
elor of Philosophy, De Pauw University, |
1898; LL.D., 1917. Oxford University, Eng- |
land, 1898-99; Cornell Unjversity, 1899-

"1900; Columbia, 1902-04; A.M., 1903; Ph.D.,

|
|
|
|
|

—~

Delta Pi Kappa

Notice is hereby served that Fresh-
men, as well as members of other
classes, are eligible for competition
in the Delta Pi Kappa contest. In
the rules published in the last issue
of The Davidsonian, Freshmen were
omitted as possible candidates due to
a careless error.

On Wednesday, this night, Delta Pi
Kappa, honorary journalistic frater-
nity, will meet at the Sigma Alpha
Epsilon house which will be used by
them for the evening. A very inter-
esting and unusual program has been
arranged with Dr. C. K. Brown as
“speaker: After’ the meeting, refresh-
ments will be served.

The winner of the contest will be
announced some time next week, and
his initiation into Deita Pi Kappa
should be held in the near future.
The Davidsonian reserves the right to
print any one of the editorials sub-
mitted in the contest.

1904,

He began teaching in the De
Politics at Columbia in 1907, and was a full!
professor from 1915-1917. For five years
thereafter, he directed the Training School
for Public Service in New York, following
which he acted in an advisory character in
Japan.

His writings in the field of politics ap-
pear as early as 1904, and he published
“The Development of Modern Europe” with
J. H. Robinson in 1907. Several works on
American government and politics followed:
an “History of the American People,” with
W. C. Bagley, in 1918, and a “History of
the United States,” with his wife, Mary Rit-
ter Beard, in 1921. His “Administration and
Politics in Tokyo” appeared in 1923. With
the advent of the “Rose of American Civil-
ization,” in 1927, a work in which his wife
collaborated, he achieved popular success.
Other works followed in 1930, one of which
was “The American Leviathan,” the repub-
lic in the machine age. Mr. Beard is the
editor of “Whither Mankind.” His home is
in New Milford, Connecticut.

Glee Club to Begin
Spring Tour March 31

Songsters Will Visit Valdese for First
Spring Performance

The Glee Club, under the efficient direc-
tion of Mr. Eugene Craft, of Charlotte,
will begin its spring tour on March 3ist,
when it performs at Valdese. This program
will be sponsored by the Parent-Teachers
Association there. On Friday, April 7th, the
club will give a similar performance at
Sharon Community, which will be sponsored
by the young people of the church. An en-
gagement, for the Glee Club to appear at
Salem College, Winston-Salem, is being ar-
i and the date will probably be soon
af the spring holidays. The Davidson
orchestra will accompany the Glee Club on
these trips.

The same selections which were used on
the fall tour will be used, with the addi-
tion of several new numbers. The latest
song is Haydyn Wood’s “Brown Bird Sing-
ing,” which is being rehearsed ‘for the Val-
dese audience.

Mr. Craft has spent much time in direct-
ing the Glee Club. Through his earnest work
the club has been a success.

The president of the Glee Club is W. W.
Calligan; Bill Blair, the vice-president, and

Leland McKeithan, business manager.

Pi Delta Alpha Hears
Dr. Addison Brenizer

Prominent Char lotte I Physician Gives
Illustrated Lecture on Thyroid
’ Glands ahd Goiter

An interesting and informing address was
presented by Dr, Addison G. Brenizer
fore an open meeting of the Pi Delta Alpha
pre-medical fraternity held Friday evening
in the faculty room of Chambers Building.
Dr. Brenizer, who is one of the most prom-
inent surgeons in the country, is a resident

be-

partment’ of {of Charlotte. He -has been prominent as a

surgeon in both peace and war, being in
the hospital work centered at
Dr. J. W.

| charge of,
Bordeaux during the World War.

McConnell, of Davidson, introduced the
speaker.
Dr. Brenizer devoted his address to that

phase of medicine that has to do with the
thyroid gland and goiter. He led his audi-
ence in a fascinating study of goiter, basing:

his explanations on slides shown to the au- |

dience. The first group shown was an inter-

esting contrast of the different stages and)

types of the enlargement of these glands.
He mentioned the relation that iodine or
(Continued on page 6)

‘Scabbard and Blade

Enters Pistol Meet

The Davidson Chapter of Scabbard and
Blade, national military fraternity, plans
to enter.a team in the National Pistol
Match of Scabbard and Blade for 1933. A
letter has recently been received by Major
C. R. Wright, president of the local chapter
of Seabbard and Blade, from Mr. Charlton
Keen, inspector of the Fourth Corps Area
of Scabbard and Blade, inviting the chapter
at Davidson to enter the match, and a re-
ply of acceptance has been sent.

Approximately eighty chapters of Scab-
bard and Blade will enter teams in this
annual contest. The Davidson team will
probably consist of Chuck Wright, Brooke
Allen, Fréd Ogden, Paul Brown, George
Bailey, and W. W. Seymour.

A coveted cup will be given to the win-
ning team. The specific requirements are
that they use a 22-calibre revolver, that
they use targets furnished by the national
headquarters, and that they be supervised
by some of the military authorities of the
school.

Members of the Junior class who will be
officers in the Senior class next year will
be selected for Scabbard and Blade within
the next two weeks. At the end of that
time, those who have been thus honored
will be decorated at the weekly R. O. T. C.
drill. It will be of interest to note that
President Franklin D. Roosevelt is an hon-
orary member of the B Company of the
Fourth Division of Scabbard and Blade.

The purpose of Scabbard and Blade, as
expressed in the preamble to their consti-
tution, is to unite in closer relationship the
military departments of American universi-
ties and colleges, to preserve and develop
the essential qualities of good and efficient
officers, to prepare ourselves as educated

(Continued on page 6)

‘SIGMA UPSILON RECENTLY

BID THREE STUDENTS AND
ONE MEMBER OF FACULTY

Fug: ate, Pratt, W. W. M. Thompson, and
Professor Goldiere Are Men
Honored by Fraternity

Sigma Upsilon, national honorary liter-
‘ary fraternity, recently sent bids to one
{member of the faculty and three students.
|Those honored are: Professor Goldiere of
‘the faculty, and W. L. Fugate, Radford,
'Va.; L. W. Pratt, Louisville, Ky., and W.
M. Thompson, Richmond, Va.

The purposes of Sigma Upsilon are:

1. To develop interest in literature.

2. To give opportunity for constructive
literary ability to express, itself.

38. To give constructive criticism of lit-
erary proclivities.

4, To give a field for controversial think-
ing to be expressed on philosophical and
economical as well as literary lines.

To provide a social hour of enjoyment
for both professor and student.

Much has been accomplished by Sigma
Upsilon the past year. Many short stories
and original dramas have been read, At
present a progressive drama of .three acts
is being written. One of the Senior mem-
Sigma Upsilon, Wills Hollings-
worth, has had a poem printed on the cover

5.

bers of

of The Scarab, the national organ of Sigma

Upsilon.

World Problems Are
~ Reviewed Before I. R.C.

Pressing International Topics Dis-
Cussed by Williams, Fugate
and McNair

Three talks featured the program of. the
International Relations Club in
ing held last Friday night. In the
of the president, Duncan McBryde, Lyman
Clardy presided over the meeting. Those
making the talks were W. L. Fugate, Jack
Williams,Jv., and Edward MeNair.

Mr. Fugate chose as his subject, “The
{League of Nations.” He divided his talk
into three main heads, the first being the
| purpose of the League. He showed that it
an alliance for the preservation of
peace among the nations. He then pointed
lout that its work consisted in the settling
lof disputes, and the preserving of political
independence of all members of the League.
He closed, with a discussion of the very
pressing problem that deals with the re-
lation of the United States and the League
of Nations. He spoke of the discussion that
is now prevalent as to whether or not the
United States should become a member of
the League of Nations.

The second. speaker, Mr. Williams, re-
viewed the book, “Scientific Disarmament,”
by Victor Lefebure. He showed that the
problem of disarmament falls under three
heads as discussed by the author. He stated
that the first phase of the problem is to
induce nations to agree to a genéral re-
duction and limitation of arms by interna-
tional agreement. Mr. Williams continued
by showing that the second phase dealt
with the problem of whether we can dis-
arm in such a way as to establish security
from the danger of sudden attack. He
stated that the third phase urged us to
deal with the problem in a technical and
scientific way rather than taking too much
into consideration the political and economic
differences. Mr. Williams closed with the
thought that all interested in the preven-

(Continued on page 6)

City Officials

Notice has been given to the citi-
zens of the. town of Davidson that a
mass meeting of the citizens of the
town is to be held in the Mayor’s
office on the evening of March 28,
1933, at 7:30 o’clock. The purpose of
this meeting is to nominate candi-
dates for Mayor and for commission-
ers, in the general election which will
be held on May 2, 1933.

The notices have been placed in
conspicuous | places throughout the
town, and are signed by W. H.
Thompson, clerk of the board.

absence

| was

its) meet- }

Debating Team

A Davidson debating team -com-
posed of Gordon H. Brown and Raw!l-
ing Pratt-Thomas, with Tom Caldwell
accompanying it as alternate, leaves
here tomorrow morning for an exten-
sive Northern trip. The query of all
the debates will be: “Resolved: That
the United States should cancel the
inter-allied war debts,” Davidson rep-
resenting the negative in every con-
test.

Friday night they will debate the
University of Richmond and, continu-
ing northward, they meet on Monday
the team of Rutgers University, at
New Brunswick, N. J. Tuesday, an
Oxford style debate will be held with
Haverford College, Haverford, Penn.
Each team will be allowed twelve min-
utes to present its argument, followed
by twelve minutes of cross-question-
ing, and ending with a rebuttal of
eight minutes. No decision will
rendered at the conclusion of this nov-
el style debate. On Thursday, April
11, Bucknell University will be met,
and the team completes the trip Sun-
day.

Vesper Talk Made by

he

of Bredbyterian College ,
as Theme, “Playing It
Safe”

President
Chooses

Dr. John M. MeSween, president of Pres-
byterian College in Clinton, S. C., made one
of the most popular talks of the vesper
programs heard this season. His sincere,
heart-felt words moved the audience great-
ly, and his forceful message held the un-
divided attention of all.

The service was opened by a_ prelude
|played by Bill Hart, the title of the piece
| being “Abide With Me.” This was then fol-
lowed by the singing of two hymns bear
ing the titles of ‘Fairest Lord Jesus, Ruler
All Nature,” and “Soldiers of Christ,
Arise.” Charles Myers, the leader, then read
a portion of the 90th Psalm, followed by
a short prayer led by Robert Glasgow.

The theme of Dr. McSween’s message
was “Playing It Safe.” He said that he was
old-fashioned and that unlike many— other

(Continued on page 6)

of

Journalistic Contest
to Close Aprit-Firs

The editorial contest which is being spon-

is coming right along under the leadership
of John Lake, president of the latter organ-
ization.

The contest, which was formally opened
last week, is chiefly intended-to discover

new material for journalistic work in the}
student body and also to promote interest |
in the field of writing and in Delta Pi!

Kappa.

Sophomores and all those Juniors and Sen- |

the ruling in order that the contest may be
as fair to all as possible and, as has been}
said, to discover other promising writers.

The writer of the best editorial will re-
ceive as a prize honorary membership in}
Delta Pi Kappa. This has long been a muc
sought after honor in the field of Davidson
writers. The fraternity was established on
the campus to recognize journalistic ability
manifested in work on the college publica-
tions. Faculty sponsors for the group are
Professors Erwin, Foreman and Fleagle.

The editorials may be of any length, and
may treat of any subject without personal
criticism. Judges will be E. O. Guerrant,
W. C. Thompson, and J. E. Lake. It is asked
that all editorials be typewritten with the
writer’s name on a separate sheet of paper.
All editorials must be handed in by April 1.

Freshmen especially are urged to enter
this contest so that those who have talent
can be found and encouraged in their en-
deavors. Unless a Freshman is out for the
editorial staff of one of the college publi-
cations, there is little chance for him to
show what he can do.

ke WILLSON PRESIDES

OVER DAVIDSON ATRLETIC
ASSOCIATION NEXT YEAR

“Morris and Wingfield Selected From

Sophomore Lettermen to Office
as Vice-Presidents

ALL OFFICERS GRID MEN

| John Pearce Will Be Secretary-Treas-

;morning during chapel exercises.
| Morriss,

urer for Coming Term

Eb Willson, of the rising Senior class,
was elected president of the Athletic As-
for the year 1933-34, Saturday
Ww. J.
Miss., and George

sociation

of Hattiesburg,

| Wingfield, of Reidsville, N. C., were elected

| Plant City,

;men in the préSent Junior
| won

| Greensboro;
iW.
‘stadt,

Dr. John M. McSween

| for the position of vice-pres

sored jointly by The Davidsonian and Delta |
Pi Kappa, honorary journalistic fraternity, |

Competition is open to all Freshmen png)

iors not connected with the editorial staff |
of any. of the three’ publications. This is |

as the two vice-presidents. John Pearce, of
Fla., was chosen to serve as
secretary-treasurer of the association.
The nominees for president were all those
class who had
as follows: E. L.
W. West, Barium
Ga.; P. J.

letters. They are
Willson, Athens, Tenn.; J.
Springs; J. W. Lafferty, Rome,
McElrath, Bramwell, W. Va.; C. M. Rives,
F. M. Cochran, Davidson; L.
Pratt, Louisville, Ky.; J. A. Halver-
Atlanta, Ga.; J. M. Holland, Gas-
tonia; R. C. Morrow, Michoacan,’ Mexico;
KE. N. Jenkins, Davidson, and H. H. Rhyne,
Mount Holly.

All’men in the present Sophomore class
who won varsity letters ee nominated
dent. The nomi-

nees were as follows: J. R. Morgan, Albe-

;marle; A. J. Potter, Barium Springs; D. M.

Hutchins, Lexington; V. W. Dillon, Mari-
anna, Fla.; C. C. Harris, Welch, W. Va.;
C,H. Hand, Lowell; W. J. Mortiss, Hatties-
burg, Miss.; J.C. Mackorell, Hickory;
George Wingfield, Reidsville; W. P. Sprunt,
Wilmington, and C. B. Ross, Davidson.

from the Freshman class who
had won their numerals were eligible for
the position of secretary-treasurer. The
leading contestants after the first ballot had
been cast were: Hack Sanders, Laurens, 8.
C.; John Pearce, Plant City, Fla.; Henry
Cathey, Charlette, and Coley Windham, Gas-
tonia.

All men

Willson was a member of this» year’s
football team, belongs to Pi Kappa Alpha
social fraternity. W. J. Morriss was a mem-
of this year’s football team and won
dis numerals in football, basketball and
baseball. He is a member of Sigma > Phi
Epsilon social fraternity. George Wingfield
won his letter as a member of this year’s
football team and his numerals in football

her

t and track. He is a member of Kappa Sigma

| fraternity. John Pearce won his numerals
in football and is also a member of Kappa
Sigma social fraternity.

The election was in charge of Charlie
Pearce, present president of the Athletic
Association.

Quadwranglers Club
to Choose Officers

M. McConnell Will Speak at
Forthcoming Meeting

|Dr. J.

|

The annual election for the purpose of _
electing officers for the coming year will
be held at the next meeting of the Quad-
| wranglers Club, on April 6. This meeting
|was postponed for a week due to the fact
|that it conflicted with an important town

h| | meeting. The present officers are: Dr. G. B.

| Watts, president; Professor H. E. Fulcher,
vice-president; Professor J. P.| Williams,
secretary, and Dr. H. P. Gwynn, member
of the executive committee.

For the forthcoming meeting, Dr. J. M.
McConnell, dean of the faculty, has been
asked to speak, and he has chosen for his
topic “South Carolina; There She Stands.”
South Carolina is the native state of Dr. Mc-
Connell, and it is expected that he will Pay
tribute to his home state.

At the last meeting, held on March 2,
Professor J. B. Bailey, of the Greek depart-
ment, read an interesting paper on the “Be-
ginnings of Medicine,” through which the
earliest beginnings of medicine to the mod-
érn epics of the curative science was dis-
cussed. Dr. Bell, a guest of the club, and
Dr. McConnell aided the discussion by add-

ing remarks on the science.
