THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 8, 1933

6 *

=— . ee

DAVIDSON TRACK TEAM Only two double-header meets with both| points, and Washington and Lee came next|set a new record, clearing the bar at six] In the weekly session with Coach Laird
the fundamentals of the game are stressed

STARTS SEASON SOON

(Continued from page 5)

The State Meet will be held in Durliam
this year instead of Chapel Hill, and will he
on the 18th of May. Davidson placed third
last year, Carolina and Duke obtaining the
first two berths, respectively. Davidson wi!l
of course enter this again this year.

The Freshmen open their season one day |

before the Varsity. On March 24th they
meet Charlotte High here. Charlotte nosed
out the ’Kittens last year by 1 1-2 poirts,
but the Freshmen appear stronger this year
and should take their first meet. Five days
‘later they meet High Point here, and three
days after that they encounter V. P. I. Fresn

here. Davidson Fresh downed the V. P. I. |

Fresh last year and should do the same
again.
On April 7th the ’Kittens meet Winston-

Salem here. Then, after quite a long rest | -

period, on April 29th, the Freshmen meet
the Frosh of Presbyterian College. They
journey to Clinton, S. C., for the meet and
there they meet their hardest foe, and the
only meet they are doped to lose. A meet
has been tentatively arranged with Wake
Forest Fresh May 6th, the same date of the
Varsity meet, but it is subject to change.
As usual, several Freshmen will go to the
State Meet in Durham this year. This will
be the ’Kittens’ last meet.

Varsity and. Fresh running here the same
day have been arranged, one on the lst of
April with V. P. I., and the other on May
6th with Wake Forest. However, on April
29th, both teams will be away on trips, the
Freshmen to Clinton, S. C., and the Var-
sity to Columbia, S. C.
The schedules:

Varsity
March 25—Furman, here.
April 1—V. P. I, here.
April 4—Duke, here.
April 15—Florida, Gainesville, Fla.
April 29—South Carolina, Columbia, S. C.
May 6—Wake Forest, here.
May 13—State Meet, Durham.
| Freshmen
March 24—Charlotte, here.
March 29—High Point, here.
April 1—V. ‘P. I. Fresh, here.
April 7—Winston-Salem, here.
April 29—P. C. Fresh, Clinton, S. C.
May 6—Wake Forest, here (tentative).
May 13—State Meet, Durham.

DUKE WINS INDOOR
TRACK MEET

(Continued from page 5)
points as the last event, the mile relay, was
called, and Virginia made no entry, and
thereby sewed the meet up for the Blue
Devils.
North Carolina was third with 22 3-4

‘| of Richmond.

with 10 1-2 points. Others trailing were:
V. P. I, V. M. I, Maryland, N. C. State,
and South Carolina.

Newark Prep of Newark, N. J., led the
scholastic division with 23 points, with Boys
High of Atlanta second with 10 points.
Episcopal High of Virginia also had 10
points and was followed by John Marshall

The order of others who scored in the
Freshman—division_was~as- follows: Duke,
University of North Carolina, Washington
and Lee, and North Carolina State.

feet even.

Spring Practices Are
Held for ’Cat Quintet

Coach Flake Laird, in an effort to put out
an exceptionally strong basketball team
next season, is having the leading aspirants
for the quint meet*with him in the gym
once each week. In addition to this they
rhave practices among themselves whenever
any spare time is available.

largely, and in addition to this a great deal
of attention is paid to shooting. A number
of good basket-ringers are engaged in these
practices. Among those out are Mack Hol-
land and Herman Dillard, who saw quite a
bit of action last month, the former with.
the Varsity and the latter with the Fresh-
men, and also some new men are engaged
in the workouts.

A number of promising men are out for
baseball-and-track;-and-so-are-unable to
attend these practices.

Lauck, Virginia captain, who set a new
record in the mile and also won the two-
mile event, led the individual scoring with
ten points. Brownlee of Duke continued his
record-smashing career as he sailed to a}
new mark for the low hurdles. By placing
in the 60-yard dash he totaled seven points
for second scoring honors.

Also outstanding was the performance of
Widmyer, flashy speedster from ‘Maryland,
who stepped the 60-yard dash in 6 3-10 sec-
onds for a new record. Reichman, Duke
Sophomore, covered the 440-yard dash in
the remarkable time of 54 1-10 seconds.

Although Finkelstein was unable to com-
pete in the 70-yard low hurdles, due to in-
juries sustained during the meet, he got in
a new record in the high hurdles, covering
the 70 yards in 8.9 seconds.

Magazine subscription scholarship workers and crew man-
agers write immediately for very best student scholarship offers
of leading publishers. Can be worked there now. Permanent posi-
tions if experienced, also summer crews for United States and

foreign territory.

The Collegiate Scholarship Institute

* STUDENTS’ CRUISES

FOR*FULL DETAILS WRITE

219 Republic Building, Miami, Florida

Turner, V. P. I. star high jumper, also|

vy

ILLUSION:

The Oriental girl reclines on a sheet of plate
glass supported by two slaves, The magician
waves a white sheet in front of the pretty

“Disappearing” acts are among the most popu-
lar in the repertory of the magician. Dogs,
horses, girls, whole rooms disappear—whisked
into wings, dropped through trapdoors, hidden
by mirrors. But this “disappearance” is a bit
different. One of the “slaves” is a hollow dummy.
When the magician holds up the sheet the lithe
little lady disappears completely—into the con-
venient figure of the dummy.

Copyright, 1933, RB. J. Reynolds Tobacco C

ah
Presto! She han dueppcered.in tin cles [rs HLUN 10 BE foo VED

EXPLANATION:

... LDS MORE FUN To KVOW

There is also a trick of cigarette adver-
tising, whereby a few magic words are
used to create the illusion of “Coolness.”
EXPLANATION: Coolness is determined
by the speed of burning. Fresh cigarettes,
“retaining their full moisture, burn more
slowly...smoke cooler. Parched, dry ciga-
rettes burn fast. They taste hot. This makes
the method of wrapping very important.

CAMELS

Improperly wrapped cigarettes begin to
dry out as soon as packed.

Camels are cooler because they come
in the famous Humidor Pack of welded,
three-ply, MOISTURE-PROOF cello-
phane...and because they contain better
tobaccos.

A cigarette that is fresh, full of natural
moisture, and blended from choice, ripe
tobaccos tastes cooler than one that is
harsh and aerid. For coolness, choose
a fresh cigarette, made from costlier

tobaccos.
It is a fact, well known by

—_ leaf tobacco experts, that

Camels are made from finer,
MORE EXPENSIVE tobaccos than
any other popular brand.

Try Camels... give your taste a chance
to sense the difference. You'll appreci-
ate.it!

— VO TRICKS

oSUST COSTLIIER
TOBACCOS

IN A MATCHLESS BLEND:

