THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 1, 1933

OBSERVER FEATURES
‘GEN. SMITH ARTICLE

(Continued from page 1)

from the time of cessation of service in the
Southern cause he has always worwi its gray
uniform. He would see his symbolism again
in the maintenance of General Smith’sante-
bellum style of living, in his ancestral home
filled with Confederate relics, “and in his
prominence in the veterans’ organizations
in which he has risen from private to gen-
eral, commanding the state division.. But
the ability of this. Confederate soldier ‘to
win marked success in the paths of peace
shows. that his two outstanding character-
istics are not antipodal. Proof of this is the
picture of his life,

“William Alexander Smith was born in
Ansonville, a village in Anson County, known
in the old. days as the ‘town of the aristo-
crats.’ Its citizenry was made up almost com-
pletely of proud old families, among the’ most
prominent of whom were the Smiths who
aS original settlers of the town: assisted in
its laying out and had the choice of its
home sites.”

BACK FROM WAR MAIMED

The article continues by telling something
of the ancestry of Géneral. Smith and of his
volunteering for the Southern cause. He
saw service at Burwell’s Bay until the end
of ’62 and played an important role in many
of the decisive battles of the war. In one
encounter he was seriously wounded and
afterwards became a cripple for life.

After the war he returned home to build
up the family fortunes and unlike many of
his unfortunate friends, was able to save his
home and make a decent living. An account
of his opening a store is given as follows:

“In 1866, General Smith, like a modern

.of the present.

youth, staked his all on a turn of the wheel
and opened in Ansonville a store on whose
shelves was every article that could be se-
cured—on credit. Faith and hope were his
as he sold to a clientele for miles around on
the same principle. Sometimes instead of
dispensing credit, he and his customers. bar-
tered. A new stock was obtained. No addi-
tional accounts were put’ on the books.

A REAL MODERNIST

“To this point, General Smith has been
depicted as a modernist in affairs that con-
cerned himself and his welfare. There is
generous proof that he was a modernist too
in. his conceptions of his duty to his fellow-
man. There have been philanthropists in
all ages’ among those of vast fortunes, but
it has remained for the last two centuries
to. produce men who have devoted goodly
portions of smaller incomes to the welfare
of their fellows. Though General Smith is
not to be classed as a financier, he has ren-
dered service in proportion to his means.

“General Smith has been inspired to all his
activity in the field of learning by his recol-
lections of his own inadequate early educa-
tion, acquired with much difficulty in the
traditional log schoolhouse, and by his de-
sire to send boys to college better prepared
to meet the curricular demands than he was
when he stood the entrance examinations in
Greek and Latin in the old days at Davidson.

VIEW OF COLLEGE POLICY

“‘There is one policy that I am delighted
to see is gradually coming back into use by
all colleges of today,’ said General Smith
as he ruminated upon the educational ideals
‘That is the insistence by
the faculty that students shall make a defi-
nite average from semester to semester to
continue as a member of the institution. But

that is not an idea that this generation has
evolved,’ he~said, as he leaned forward to
seriously emphasize his, statement. ‘That
was a regulation that. existed generally in
colleges three-quarters of a century ago.
The abandonment of that policy for a time
must have been a result of the war, for
schools had to depend for their clientele on
those who could pay. ‘There grew up con-
sequently a lack of appreciation for the ad-
vantages. of an education.

“‘Now that the opportunity for higher
education—is—a—common~—one,;’—he—concluded
with a smile, ‘the faculty can inaugurate a
demand for greater selectiveness.’”

He takes an active part in affairs of the
Episcopal Church at Ansonville and designed
the All Saints Chapel there. He has been
elected to the board of managers of the
Thompson Orphanage of Charlotte and the
board of trustees of the University of the
South at Sewanee.

“As could be expected from a man assum-
ing such leadership, ‘General Smith became
an eager supporter of the good roads pro-
gram that was to project North Carolina as
one of the most progressive states in the
Union. Of like advancement was his posi-
tion in the votes for women and prohibition
campaigns, since he was an ardent supporter
of both.

“Of final proof of the modernity of this
man is the creed he adopted for himself
when he as a young man started out on his
long career, a creed which could as con-
ceivably be promulgated by the youth of
today. ‘Perseverance, economy, unremitting
attention to business, honorable dealings, not
too great haste to become rich but keeping
capital and earnings actively
Practice liberality; be helpful to others and
keep good company.’”

employed. |

FORENSIC COUNCIL ANNOUNCES
VARSITY AND FRESHMAN TRIPS

(Continued from page 1)

alternate, will have an exchange debate with
Lees-McRae College on March 11.

This year the Forensic Council will have
the honor of entertaining the State Peace
Conference at Davidson, April 28. Since
Davidson has not entertained this confer-
ence in four years, it is appropriate and fit-
ting. The purpose of this conference is to
stimulate interest in world peace: The Misses
Seabury of New Bedford, Mass., have of-
fered as prizes a hundred dollars in cash
and a silver loving cup. The first prize is
sixty dollars and the second is forty. The
silver loving cup goes to the school which
wins at the conference. There will be six
or seven, contestants from the various schools
in North Carolina. Some of the former
participants are Duke, State, Lenoir-Rhyne,
Davidson, and Guilford. The speaker to rep-
resent Davidson has not been selected, but
it is expected that a selection will be made
some time in the near future. °

DAVIDSON “Y” WORK IS
OUTLINED TO VISITORS

(Continued from page 1)
Davidson was outlined. Each Davidson man
gave a brief report of his own field of duties
and_activities.

The members of both cabinets agreed that
the week-end was very beneficial, and the
Davidson “Y” is looking forward to sending
a return deputation to Chapel Hill some
time_in the near future.

U-PUSH-EMS
New Rates

at

M. P. Henderson’s
Gulf Station,

allele lalate lalate lalalala ileal alalalaieleialalalaalalalelelalalialalalelalailalallelaaisie

SCARLET

SODAS ote

TOBACCOS +

See Our New Line of Stationery

TANAGER

SUNDRIES

Hot Chocolate

CRRRRRRKRARRKARRRRARLKR

Coftee
Phone 9143
PRPPRELEPERELEHLRKKERERERENENENARRRNRRRRRRRRMRRRRRMRRRNRNNNR

Tomato Bouillon

Neue ale

Cares, O COLE

O TELL

only good cigarette . . . that the makers
of Chesterfield Cigarettes are the only ones
who can buy good tobaccos and manufac-
ture cigarettes scientifically . .. would be
nothing short of foolish.

For all tobacco is sold in open auctions
—where anyone can buy if he will pay the
price. Even the machines on which differ-
ent cigarettes are made are alike.

This much, however, is true: By using’
the right kinds of Turkish and Domestic to-
baccos in just the right proportions ... by
blending and cross-blending them together
in the most careful way .. . we make Chest-
erfield what smokers say it is... a cigarette”
that’s milder, that tastes better. Just try them.

you that Chesterfield is the

Chesterfield Radio Program — Every night ex-
cept Sunday, Columbiacoast-to-coast Network.

er:

MM

/

ce FP

© 1933, Liccett & Myers Tosacco Co.

THEY’RE MILDER —
THEY TASTE BETTER

) t

