THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 8, 1933

The Davidsontan

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

Member of
Associated Collegiate Press

== 1933 Gane

tovimact) 1934 =

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-

~legiate: year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office , spavideon,
North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd,

Articles for publication must be in the hands of BIASRE DE Editors
by 4:00 o'cloc . m., Monday, Letters to the itor are
welcome, but all communications intended for publication
must be signed.

ont CASALI_-.-.
V. T. JOHNSON-

Gri GULGE TT Baas a csatsaic RU usctsssaccacses Managing Editor
EF; Managing Editor
B. L. SE...... anaging Editor
K. D, WEEKS.. anaging Editor
JACK HELLINGER....................... -...Alumni Editor
C. E. NORVE -Sports Editor
RAWLING_ PR Editorial Writer
5 A. HUNT --Exchange Editor

. B, BAILEY ..Feature Editor
S. K. EATON Feature Editor
S. C. HENRY Feature Editor
C. S. McCAL Feature Editor
D. W. HOLL Review Editor
L. W. CLAR --Associate Editor
A. F. poner --Associate Editor
Wi Mi (THOMPSONS 2o ae srace cae --Associate Editor
JACK WILLI AMS J Rrewvarswses.220.5cc. cc scnn sence. Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

Assistant Business Manager
i Business Manager
Business Manager

Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1933

There ts but one straight road to success, and that
is merit. The man who is successful is the man who
is useful. Capacity never lacks opportunity. It can
not remain undiscovered, because it is sought by too
many anxious to use it. —Bourke Cockran.

DAVIDSON’S MUSICAL ORGANIZATIONS
Probably the most obvious deficiency in Da-
vidson’s and extra-curricula activities has
been remedied by the coming of Mr. J. C. Pfohl
to this institution. For several years the ab-
sence of any talented and efficient musical direc-
tor left its mark on our campus and Mr. Pfohl’s
acceptance of the position offered him here has
been of great value.
wrought in the existing musical
and the creation of groups
The band is no longer
a disorganized unit of non-c )-operating individ-
uals, but a complete and co-ordinated whole.
This regeneration has caused widespread com-
ment both in the newspapers and in personal
communications. Pride has displaced the feel-
ing of shame on the part of the students who
the band in public demonstrations in
times past. Its music, formation, and appear-
ance is as good as that of any college band that
we have scen and a great deal better than many
of them.
terial,

courses

The change
organizations new

has been phenomenal.

viewed

Davidson possesses fine concert ma-
many talented musicians in
the ‘student body and the quality of the music
produced is splendid.

The origination of a concert orchestra has in-
deed been a progressive step. Unexercised tal-
ent will have the opportunity to express itself—
violins and other stringed instruments have
been slighted, but now one of the most beautiful
forms of music will find a means of expression.
The orchestra has made few appearances to pub-
lic audiences yet, but we hope it will soon
become an indispensable part of all musical pro-
grams either in conjunction with Band and Glee
Club or alone. The Glee Club and Quartet are
busily at work and will no doubt continue the
standard of perfection set by the Band when

There are

as

they begin their programs.

We now have three first-class» musical organ-
izations compared with two mediocre ones of a
year ago and mediocrity may be a too compli-
mentary a term at that.

We wish to commend Mr. Pfohl, the members
of the band, and the drum major for the excel-
lence that they have achieved. Their perform-
ance is greatly appreciated by the student body.

—R. P. T.

ARMISTICE DAY

November the eleventh commemorates
close of the great World War. We should pay
homage to those noble souls who sacrificed
themselves upon the field of battle, but should
remember that all war is futile and results only
in economic ruin and intense suffering.

“Lord God of Hosts; be with us yet,

7

Lest we forget—lest we forget!

the

MOVE POST OFFICE

Much has been written and said about stu-
dents walking on the grass and creating a path-
way between Chambers Building and the post
office, but it seems that it all has been to no
avail. There is one solution, however. Did any-
one ever think of moving the post office from
its present site to one to the left of the Carolina
Inn?. This move would put the concrete walk
in front of Chambers to use once more.

LIFE—A REFINING PROCESS

Someone has said that we meet only ourselves
in any circumstances in life; people and events
are of worth and significance to us only inasmuch
as we seein them a likeness to some quality
within ourselves which we recognize and evalu-
ate. If this were quite true and we could know
ourselves perfectly, it would take practically all
of the element of surprise out of life. However,
as a matter of fact we shall always be conscious
of some variation between realization and antici-
pation.

So much of life is lived in and for the future
that we shall be forever overtaking experiences
to which-we-have looked forward. But always
much of the worth of the experience will be lost
unaware.

Surprise will often blind us to the challenge
of unexpected worth.

Disappointment will embitter us so that we
cannot put our whole selves into bettering a sit-
uation.

And we may spend idle time rubbing our
hands in satisfaction over some bit of existence
we have foreseen as it turns out to be.

Life can be a refining process in the every-
day if we are aware, and daily contacts may be
immeasurably enhanced through discernment.

—“‘The Hornet” (Furman University)

IN THE NATIONAL FOCUS

North Carolina has a football team over at
Duke University that has perched itself squarely
in the national focus and for that reason, the
hopes and aspirations of the people of the state
generally, without show of littleness or parti-
sanry, troop alongside Wallace Wade’s fine squad
as it continues to chop its way to victory after
victory.

It is not often that North Carolina gets itself
mentioned for having a feotball team worthy of
national note.

Mediocrity or worse is the usual rating of such
aggregations in the state, but the Duke mentor

who is himself a character of national renown,

in the field of football, hasjdeveloped at Duke
University a team that seems to have the power
to match its genius with that of any in the
South, if not in the whole country, and whether
you are football-minded or not, that is an attain-
ment that gives North Carolina a press-agentry
that few other developments could provide.
—The Charlotte Observer.

Here and There

The night watchman at South Dakota State
College has, during his duties, walked around the
campus enough to equal a trip two-thirds around
the world.

The Parenthesis Club, unique organization at
the State Teachers College in Trenton, pat J., is
only open to bow-legged men. ;

There is now in operation at the University of
California a machine to crush atoms. It is done
with the deuton, science’s tiny but powerful “bul-
let.”

University of Oklahoma authorities have for-
bidden the drinking of beer in fraternity houses,
but will allow students to drink it in campus
stores where,it is -sold.

Public school teachers ‘of Philadelphia are
studying puppetry and marionettes in a special
course at the Moore Institute of Art.

From the psychological clinic of the Univer-
sity of Hawaii comes the startling statement that
25 out of every 100 students will cheat if the
chance of escaping detection is good.

At Fordham University it appears that the
faculty are appointed by name. Father Deane is
dean, a Father Whalen acts as dean of discip-
line, Mr. Shouten is in charge of debating, and
Mr. Voekal (pronounced vocal) is in charge of
the glee club.

The Princeton football coaching staff is unique,
as every member of it has been head coach at
some university,

A young married couple is studying biscuit-
making and law at the University of Washington.

The twenty-three-year University of Chicago
tradition of singing “Wave the Flag” ended with
the departure of Amos Alonzo Stagg from the
athletic department.

On the Illinois Wesleyan campus this year
there are four co-operative houses in which stu-
dents live by a budget, dividing the expenses
among themselves.

An Experimental Theater has been organized
on the Ohio University campus for the purpose
of presenting some of the more recent popular
comedies,

cs ;
all territory

ening Council

NEWS DIGEST

FARM STRIKE

The widely spread farm strike
through the mid-west had reached a
crisis. Monday when embattled farm-
ers attempted to stem the flow of
foodstuffs to the market. One man
was killed, three were injured and
thousands of dollars worth of produce
were destroyed in the mad fighting
over a wide area. The farmers say
that they will never give up the fight
until the Federal Government has come
to their rescue with the needed legis-
lation.

GREECE

The failure on the part of the Gre-
cian courts to give up Samuel Insull,
Chicago utilities magnate, to the UES;
has resulted in the sending to Greece
of one of the sternest and most scath-
ing notes in American diplomatic his-
tory. The State Department in Wash-
ington informed Greece that the action
of its courts was utterly untenable and,
for that reason the U. S. declared its
intention to end the Graeco-American
extradition treaty as soon as possible.

GUINAN DEAD

Texas Guinan, queen of New York
night clubs, died suddenly Sunday in
Vancouver, B. C., while she was on a
tour. The loud-voiced blonde whose
name was kept constantly before the
public eye had led a varied life since
her birth in Waco, Texas. She had
been in the movies, on the stage, ran
night clubs, and had had frequent
court room battles over the prohibi-
tion question. However, she is known
best on Broadway for her unique con-
tributions to its vocabulary, where she
coined the classic phrase, “ Hello Suck-

er.

JERUSALEM

For several days there has been se-
vere rioting in and around Jerusalem
as the result of the Arabs’ uneasiness
over the increase in Jewish immigra-
tion. However, conditions are now
outwardly quiet although underneath
the surface unrest is still breeding.

JAPANESE EVACUATE
Japanese army has evacuated
south of the Great Wall
of China ang is concentrating its
forces further northward in Manchuria
along the Soviet-Russian border where
threatening outbreaks have warranted
such action, The evacuation took place
suddenly after almost six months’ oc-
cupation of the North China area.

The

~PARLIAMENT DISSOLVED

The British governer, General Sir
David Campbell, has dissolved the
Maltese parliament and declared a

state of-emergency arising out of the
acute political crisis caused from dif-
ferences between the Maltese and Brit-
ish authorities.

INDUSTRY CONTROL

A resolution demanding that busi-
ness remain free of government inter-
ference and icontrol was made public
Thursday by Gerard Swope, chairman
of the Business Advisory and Plan-
of the Department of
Commerce. The resolution also ex-
pressed satisfaction with the work al-
ready done by the government and
pledged themselves to assist it in every
possible way.

MENDIETA

The Grau San Martin Cuban gov-
ernment has failed to establish order
and now all sides are clamoring for
the nationalist union leader, Col. Carlos
Mendieta, to take the helm of state.
However, in spite of they entreaties
from all sides, Mendieta shies away
from the provisional presidency which
is offered to him. He is following the
advice of his nationalist friends who
urge him not to commit political sui-
cide by taking over the government at
this critical stage in its affairs.

BUYING GOLD

The U. S. is continuing her policy
of buying gold for importation into
the country. The President is doing
this ‘in an attempt to raise prices at
home. The Federal Reserve Bank in
New York is doing most of the buy-
ing, but negotiations thus far have been
surrounded by a wall of secrecy. Up
to now thirty-six thousand ounces have
been received at the total price of
more than $2,100,000.

NORMAN DAVIS

Norman Davis, chief United States
delegate to the Geneva Arms Confer-
ence, thinks that he may forsake the
conference and again. enter private
business on his return to the U. S. next
week. It is learned on high authority
that Davis will again be urged to take
the helm in a large international com-
pany which will seek to liquidate the
vast and tangled affairs of Kreuger
and Toll which involve thousands of
investors throughout the world.

Student’s Act Brings
Praise for Davidson

Fulfillment of Promise to Pay for
Bed is Typical

The honest act of a Davidson student
brought panegyric words for the col-
lege in a letter addressed to Dr. W. L.
Lingle, president of the school, com-
ing from the general secretary of the
Y. M. C. A. in one of North Carolina’s
leading cities.

Last Saturday night the particular
student happened to run out of funds
while in that city. He went to the
man at the desk at the “Y,” pulling
the now popular gag, “I'll gladly pay
you Wednesday for a bed tonight.”
Moved by the youth’s request, the
deskman put him up for the night,
probably not expecting to be paid.

But Wednesday morning in the
morning's mail the “Y” secretary
found a letter in which the money to
pay for the room was enclosed. So
thinking the incident would make
President Lingle feel good, the secre-
tary immediately wrote him a letter,
from which the following excerpt is
taken:

“In this morning’s mail I had a nice
letter from him (the student) enclos-
ing the money to pay for his room
Saturday night. This may seem a
little thing, but if you knew of the
hundreds each year who are going to
Pay us for a room and never do, you
would know how we feel when one
mam actually does what he agrees to
do. However, this is not contrary to
our experience with Davidson men.
We have always found them to be
perfect gentlemen and we have never
yet had a Davidson man promisé us
anything in the five and a half years
that I have been here that he hasn't
done.”

LECTURE ON N. CAROLINA
HISTORY BY NEWSOME

(Continued from page 1)

by other states as Rip Van Winkle,
until the spirit of Macon was repudi-
ated.” Archibald D. Murphy, of Hills-
boro, was one who lamented the back-
wardness of the state and laid the
present foundation of our common-
wealth. Murphy advocated internal
improvements, educational system,
constitution reform, water and land
transportation, and several similar
policies. The advocates of an educa-
tional system won its first victory in
1825 when a literary fund for public
schools system was formed,

Murphy’s system was defeated by
the land owners of the eastern part
who did not want an educational sys-
tem, and who were against anything
which caused them to spend any of
their money, In 1824 the west defeated
the east, and the next time Jackson
Was supported by all of North Caro-
lina, but to the west Jackson was a
great disappointment.

Finally the west, lead by Swain, the
governor, and other leaders, broke the
power of the east. After 1835 North
Carolina embarked on a period of re-
juvenation, and it was then that Rip
Van Winkle was awakened.

ARMY RIFLE RANGE
IMPROVED BY BURTON

(Continued from page 1)

stead of walking up to them. This is
much safer and will speed up the fir-
ing. A wall has also been constructed
as another safety device on the right
of the firing point to keep spectaters
from walking in front of the rifles.
Still another improvement is in the
fact that the targets may be adjusted
to different heights for prone and
standing positions.

Other improvements in the building
include mainly the rearranging, re-
numbering, and repafhting of the rifle
racks. At the end of last year sev-
eral of the racks were broken down
and many of the numbers missing.
Now a student may easily find his rifle
by consulting the list which is to be
found on the end of each rack.

Sergeant Burton did the Majority
of this improving during his spare time.

On Other Campuses

HARVARD

We learn that Harvard has abolished
Yale locks from its dormitories. In
line with this rather startling policy
of patriotism it will be but a matter
of time until the Vassar student body
puts a ban on Smith cough drops and
Yale takes drastic action against the
Harvard classics. (“ The Spectator.”)

CATHOLIC U.

School history was made at Catholic
U. when the freshmen won the annual
tug-o-war from the sophs. In former
days, it was a tradition that the fresh-
men should not win this event, even
though upperclassmen had to join in
the battle, but this year the first-year
men came out on top! They are al-
ready demanding senior privileges!
What we want to know is jitst what
are “senior privileges”?

PURDUE

It has been rumored by the Purdue
Exponent that the formation of a “We
Ain’t Been to the Fair But We*Have
Heard All About It” club has mate-
rialized. The ideals of the club shall
be the convenience and protection of
the small minority that have not at-
tended the Chicago show!

WASHINGTON U.

It was found that’the average stu-
dent at the University of Washington
thas more money in his pocket than
the average professor.

SALEM COLLEGE

The rules of Salem College dated
1732:

1, Baths can be taken only by spe-
cial permission and at times indicated
by the professors.

2. Sleeping quarters are not to be
visited by students during the day.

3. The strictest order is to be ob-
served in the embroidery room.

4. Pupils are never to go out of
sight or hearing of the instructor when
walking. .

NOTRE DAME

Nearly 10,000 persons have visited
the campus of the University of Notre
Dame in the course of the last few
weeks. The campus has attracted
tourists from all but three states of
the Union, and from Canada, Germany,
Poland, Cuba and Puerto Rico.

WASHINGTON AND LEE

The student publication at W. & L.,
the “Ring-Tum Phi,” was awarded
first place in the contest for class “A”
newspapers conducted by the Virginia
Intercollegiate Press Association at its
sixth annual convention held at Rich-
mond, Friday and Saturday of last
week, The contest was judged on the
basis of make-up, general news value,
and journalistic style.

N. C. STATE

All but 10 of the 100 counties of
North Carolina are represented among
the student body of N. C. State Col-
lege with Wake County leading in
the number enrolled at 254 and Guil-
ford, second with 55. Representatives
from 25 states and two foreign coun-
tries, France and Puerto Rico, are list-
ed among the student body.

SYSTEM OF SELECTING
MANAGERS IS CHANGED

(Continued .from page 1)

The subject of alumni tickets to
football games was also discussed at
the last meeting. A proposal that
alumni tickets should be free was in-
troduced, and some progress was made
toward its acceptance, although plans
are not yet complete.

DR. LINGLE MAKES
TOUR OF GEORGIA

(Continued from page 1)
and two Davidson graduates are mem-
bers of the faculty.

Dr. and Mrs, Lingle came in contact
with several friends of Davidson at
the Berry Schools, among them, E. G.
Clary, of the class of 1916, and Clifton
Russell, Dr. Lingle’s nephew. On Sun-
day, Dr. Lingle spoke at the school’s.
church services on “Christian Ideal-

ism.”

aul Ul A

STATIONERY

CALLING CARDS

FRATERNITY PAPERS

Printing of all Types at Reasonable Rates

PROGRAMS

See BILL JOHNSON
e

203 Watts

Standard Printing Company

@ Garland Court -

CHARLOTTE, N.C. ©

