THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 29, 1933

VESPER TALK MADE BY
DR. JOHN M. McSWEEN

(Continued from page 1)
old-fashioned people, he knew it. His old-
fashionedness consisted of being conserva-
tive, and not headstrong like the majority
of the youth today. He said that by no
means should we dampen our youthful en-
thusiasm but we should consider the ulti-
mate result before we undertake a task of
any importance, in other words, “play it
safe.” He illustrated this vital point by the
following anecdote: He was a war chap-
lain in the Great War and to help keep the
minds of the soldiers, occupied he and a
small group of officers organized seVeral
baseball teams among the various war units
and many games were played between them.
In one of the games, a tight pitching duel
was taking place, no man having reached
second base,,and the inning being the sev-
enth. Suddenly the first batter up for one
of the teams slammed out a three-bagger
and things then looked very bad for the
fielding team, but to the incredulous amaze-
ment of all, the mah on third<base tried to
steal home on the very next play, and was
put out. The foolhardiness of that trial is
perfectly obvious,, with three perfect
chances of scoring, he chose to do the fool-
ish thing, and not only did he sacrifice the
chance of scoring a run himself, but ‘he also
ruined the whole team’s morale by his glar-
ing, gross selfishness and they were unable
to perform their assignments as a single
unit and thus finally lost the game.

The speaker continued by saying that

there is also a false conservatism that will
accomplish nothing; be willing: to take
chances, but in taking those chances—‘play
it safe.”
“ Dr. McSween complimented the great
spirit and atmosphere of the Davidson cam-
pus life. He gave praise to the many Da-
vidson teams that have fought on the grid-
iron against overwhelming odds and wheth-
er they lost or won, they never gave in.

Dr. McSween took up the whiskey prob-
lem confronting the youth of today and out-
lined the number of things we were playing
fast and loose with, when we fooled around
with liquor. He said that We greatly endan-
gered the health, honor, self-respect, nioral-
ity and even the immortal soul by playing
with whiskey. He said that we should, when
tempted to drink liquor, think of our be-
loved mothers and fathers and how it would
grieve them to see us in a condition not
conducive to description.

The speaker closed his appealing mes-
sage by saying that honor was the most
burning question of all before the young
people of today. He said that there is, of
course, a chance of your never being caught
cheating, but that. even if you are not
caught, it is not worth it. The misery, the
shame it would cause our parents, con-
demns dishonor on the spot.

The service was closed by the singing of
the hymn, “Pass Me Not O Gentle Savior.”
Dr. Walter Lingle dismissed the congrega-
tion with a short prayer.

At the chapel service Monday morning,
Dr. McSween talked to the students about

Be Suré to Patronize the
Student Body

ADVERTISE IN

The Yowl

Quips ‘Cranks

and

The
Davidsonian

THE YOWL—Arthur Ross, Mer.
_THE ANNUAL—W. C. Thompson, Mgr.
‘THE DAVIDSONIAN--A. M. Manson “

going out into the world. With the right
kind_of leadership they can do great things,
he said. He challenged the students to go
out into the world and lead and give a new
cast to our civilization. There is a great
work for the college student to do in the
world, he stated. With this thought the
president ended his speech.

WORLD PROBLEMS ARE
REVIEWED BEFORE I. R. C.

(Continued from page 1)

tion of war should read this interesting
book.

The final talk was given by Mr. McNair,
who reviewed the book, “Recovery—The
Second Effort,” by Sir Arthur Salter. He
took the book up in its four divisions, the
first being the present scene in which the
author pictured conditions that we are ex-
periencing after the Great War. The fact

that our time is a period of transition was ; Coble (Davidson) tied for third. Height, 5; plained. The new type of operation is ac-

stressed. The second division dealt with the
economic and financial reforms, and pre-

sented an interesting discussion of the gold! son) first,,McCallie (Davidson) second, Rob- | 2S little marred as possible.
standard and our present financial crisis.;inson (Furman) third. Time, 26.2 seconds. |
The third division painted a picture of the |

political scene, vividly describing the pres-
ent relations between nations. The book,
according to Mr. McNair, presented an in-
teresting discussion of the major treaties
since the war, and the men who have made

book was entitled, “A Program of Action.”
It gave a vivid picture of a plan _of_recov-
ery, suggesting limitation and reduction of
arms as a solution. The author points out
that the two qualities most needed by the
nations at present are courage and mag-
nanimity.

The International Relations Club has
asked Dr. Currie, one of the faculty mem-
bers, to deliver an address at the meeting
to be held in the early part of April.

FURMAN DEFEATED BY
DAVIDSON IN FIRST MEET

(Continued from page 5)
Dill (Davidson) second, Anderson (Fur-
man) third. Distance, 120 feet.

Two-mile run: Warren (Furman) first, C.
Little (Davidson) second, McFadyen (Da-
vidson) third. Time, 10 minutes, 55 seconds.

High jump: Adair (Furman) first, Boney
(Furman) second, Brown (Davidson) and

| feet, 6 inches. i
| 220-yard low hurdles: A. Little (David-

880-yard run: Gwinn (Davidson) first,
Corbin_(Davidson) second,.Cannon (David-
son) third. Time, 2 minutes, 9.7 seconds.

Javelin throw: Bettis (Davidson) first,
‘Cochran (Davidson) second, Vick (Furman)
‘third. Distance, 144 feet, 9 inches.

Griffin (Furman) second, Dickerson (Da-
vidson) third. Distance, 20 feet, 8 inches,

PI DELTA ALPHA HEARS
DR. ADDISON BRENIZER

(Continued from page 1)
the lack of it has to goiter. He pointed out
the interesting fact that the thyroid gland
is a gland of emotion. We grasp at our
throats and a lump rises in them when we
undergo severe emotions. The strain of
times like the World War and the late finan-
cial depression caused a material increase
in the number of cases of goiter.

He then began a most interesting study
of the operation~for the removal of the
thyroid gland in the case of goiter. He
showed how the old type of operation was

| nizer, is that there is much more to be
|learned, a real field of endeavor is open ‘to
the adventurous and thoughtful mind.

SCABBARD AND BLADE
ENTERS PISTOL MEET

(Continued from page 1)

men to take a more active part and to have
a greater influence in the military affairs
of the communities in which we may re-
| side, and above all to spread intelligent in-
| formationY concerning the military require-
}ments of our country.

| This summer a large number of Seniors
|from Davidson plan to go to Fort Bragg to
; become members of the Officers Reserve
| Corps. Last year a good number of Seniors
| went to Fort McClellan for the same pur-

| pose. These men generally receive the rank

performed and the unsightly scars that it | of second lieutenant.

left. The interesting process of preparing |
the patient for the operation was fully ex- |

FRESHMEN LAUNCH TRACK
SEASON SUCCESSFULLY

|complished with the smallest possible in- :
\cision, with a view of leaving the throat (Continued from page 5)

tied for second. Height, 5 feet, 8 inches.
Dr. Brenizer advised those planning a| Javelin throw: Gill (Charlotte) first,
istudy of medicine to take up a particular| Pickard (Charlotte) second, Blackwelder
lline and “ride’ it. “After an intensive fo-| (Davidson) third. Distance, 143 feet, 8

| inches.

jcus of your study won one phase of medi- |

emer you will begin to be able to convince} Broad jump: Pickard (Charlotte) first,
others that you know something about your| McClintock (Charlotte) second, Branton

One of the most fascinating} (Davidson) third. Distance, 21 feet, 6 3-4

|

own line.’

them. The fourth and final division of the| Broad jump: Armistead (Davidson) first, | things about medicine, according to Dr. Bre-| inches.

ILLUSION: |

The magician exhibits a flower pot with hinged sides

After a short period of magic

the screen. The astounded audience sees a beautiful
girl, covered to the shoulders in lovely flowers, rising

on a table in the center of the stage. He opens out the
sides to show that this container is empty. Closing it
up, he places a screen between it and the audience.

incantations he removes

from the “empty” container. Where did she come from?

EXPLANATION:
The girl was hiding behind

There is a trap door in the bottom of the flower pot,

the drape of the table.

with a hole large enough to allow her tocrawl through.

* The flowers, called “magicians’ feather flowers,” are
a regular part of a magician’s outfit. The flower girl

wears a rubber tunic and a

flowers compressed into small space. She slides the
tunic down and the flowers expand when she emerges.

Irs FUN 10 BE POOLED
...L0S MORE FUN To Know

Copyright, 1988, B. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company

CAMELS

A trick frequently worked in ‘cigarette
advertising is the é//usion that mildness
in a cigarette comes from mysterious
processes of manufacture.
EXPLANATION: All popular ciga-
rettes today are made in modern sani-
tary factories with up-to-date machin-
ery. All are heat treated—some more
intensively than others, because raw,
inferior tobaccos require more inten-

bathing cap to keep the

sive treatment than choice, ripe to-
baccos. @

The real difference comes in the to-
baccos that are used. The better the
tobacco, the milder it is.

—_

it is a fact, well known by leaf

tobacco experts, that Camels
are made from finer, MORE
EXPENSIVE tobaccos than any other
popular brand.

That is why Camels are so mild. That
is why Camels have given more pleas-
ure to more people than any other cig-
arette ever made.

It’s the secret of Camels’ rich “bou-
quet”... their cool flavor...their non-
irritating mildness.

; Give your taste a chance to appre-
ciate the greater pleasure and satisfac-
tion of the more expensive tobaccos.

NO TRICKS

SOST COSTLIER

TOBACCOS

IN A MATCHLESS BLEND
