THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 8, 1933

“Grand Hotel” Discussed
At German Meeting Here

Delta Phi Alpha Has Interesting Re-
view of Famous Novel

Delta Phi Alpha, the honorary fraternity
which recognizes proficiency in the Ger-
man language, held its regular meeting last
Thursday evening at the home of Dr. Guy
R. Vowles.

After the roll caitl, to which each member
answered with a German quotation, the -pro-
gram led by Paul Brown was diverted into
a discussion of the now famous novel,
“Grand Hotel.” This discussion was very
interesting and informative, and was. thor-
oughly enjoyed by the attending members.
The fraternity plans to review several of
the more recent German novels and to sub-
mit these reviews to The Davidsonian for
publication. It is hoped that these reviews
will stimulate interest in. German litera-
ture. At the close of the program Dr. and
Mrs. Vowles served light refreshments to
the members. ee

There was a discussion of a plan to form
a German Club that will be similar in its
functions to the present Spanish Club. This
will enable those who are interested in the
study of the German language to become
identified with a German organization, al-
though they have not completed the neces-
Sary semester hours that are required in
order to become eligible for membership in
the Delta Phi Alpha. Definite plans for the
formation of such a club will be carried on
at a future meeting of the fraternity.

Students Defeat
Faculty on Links

The first of three student-faculty golf
matches was played Saturday afternoon ‘on
the local course. The students emerged vic- |
tors by winning four of the six foursomes, |
scoring twelve and one-half points to the,
professors’ five and one-half. |

Mac Manson and Bill Bowman-of the stu- |
dent team defeated Professor Fulcher and
Dr. Watts in the feature match of the after-
noon, winning all three points. John Thomp-
son-Bob Gregory, Tom Bowles-Campbell |
Vaiden, and Alex Schenck-Charlie Myers,
were the other student victors. Professor
Blythe-“Doc” Newton, and Mr. Hengeveld-
Mr. Hobart saved the day for the elders by

ne their foursomes.

Dr. Moffett and Dr. Lingle were unable to
participate in this match, but they have as-
sured us that their services will be rendered |
in the future meets. These two have devel- |
oped into very skillful golfers and should
add to the strength of the faculty team.

Members of the 1983 golf team will be}
chosen from the students participating in
these matches. They have been disvlaying
unusual ability, and it is thought that Da-
vidson will be well represented on the iinks
this spring.

DONALD H. STEWART:
- SPEAKS AT VESPERS

(Continued from page 1)
healthy body that God has given him, in
useless folly. Degeneration of a man’s phys-
ical frame affects not only himself but his
children and his children’s children for
many generations.

In closing Mr. Stewart quoted this pas-
sage:

“To every man there openeth

A highway and a low,

And the high soul climbs the highway

And the law soul gropes the low.

And in between on the misty flats,

The rest drift to and fro; aa

But to every man there openeth

A highway and a low,

And every man decideth

The way his soul shall go.”

DRAMATIC CLUB BIDS
SIX TALENTED ACTORS |

(Continued from page 1)
ing which the members adjourned to the
Social Center.

After the initiation ceremonies had been
conducted by officers, Ed Hancock and Jack
Williams, a short business session was held.
The club is planning a production early in
‘the spring. Special announcement was made
of the Little Theatre play to be given in
Charlotte, “The Wild Duck.” Bily Flinn,
chairman of the refreshment committee,
served punch and sandwiches to the assem-
bled actors. :

SIGMA DELTA PI INITIATES
SEVEN NEW MEMBERS

(Continued from page 1)

At this time it was decided that the elec-
tion of officers would be held at the first
meeting in April. The next scheduled meet-
ing of Sigma Delta Pi will be on Wednes-
day, March 15. No definite program has as
yet been arranged.

Davidson Five and

Phi Literary Society
Ten Years Ago

Elects New Officers

On March 24th the Philanthropic FPL
ary Society held its regular wails Peet | FIVE YEARS AGO
ing. There was no regular program, but a| The plans for Athletic Night, one of the
short business meeting was held, after which | chief features of the athletic department,
the meeting was adjourned in order that the | Were announced. Gold footballs were to be
members might attend the intercollegiate | awarded to the members of the football
debate. The two literary societies are:for|team and “D” certificates will be given to

those students who are interested in learn- |

ing: public speaking. |

At the meeting on February 14th the fol. |
lowing new officers were elected: W. M.
Rachal, president; W. L. Fugate, vice-presi-
Gent; C. A. McNeill, secretary; H. W. Lucas,
treasurer; J. G. Morrison, critic; C. Ross.
supervisor. This literary society elects its
officers three times each year, while the
Kumenean Society elects officers only twice
each year. D. D. McRryde acted as presiient
the first term, while S. Noblin was president
tne sceond term. Rachal, the newly elected
president, will preside until the end of the
year. r

At the last meeting, which was held on
the seventh, D. M. Jones gave a few cur-
rent events and McBryde gave a very in-:
teresting talk. After the two talks there was

the football, baseball, basketball and track
men. :

Monsieur Gos, native French author, en-
tertained the students, faculty, and towns-
people of Davidson with an interesting ad-
dress in French, on the Swiss Alps.

At 2 mecting of the wrestling team, Tom
EK. Hill was elected captain for the coming
year.

The Glee Club returned from a very suc-
cessful tour of the South. One of the high
spots of the trip was a day in Atlanta, Ga,,
where they broadcast over station WSB.

Carl Pritchett and Frank Hall, varsity de-

baters, lost a close decision to the Williams |

and Mary team.’ The subject was, “Re-
solved: That the United States should cease

-to protect by force of arms capital invested

in foreign. lands.”

a debate. The query was: ‘Resolved: That
Technocracy would be an advance to the
country.” C. A. MeNeill argued the affirma-
tive, while W. T. Johnston upheld the nega-
tive.

TEN YEARS AGO

was formally installed in Davidson College

on March ist. The chapter was presented
to the college by President Chase of the
University of North Carolina in a very im-
pressive ceremony.

The 1923 basketball season ended with
Davidson losing a close game to Elon. The
season was, however, a success, with nine
wins out of seventeen starts.

At a meeting of the board of trustees it
was decided to replace the old Watts dormi-
tory, which recently was destroyed by fire,
with a new modern building.

The baseball team is rounding into shape
with great promises. Captain Pat Crawford
is expecting a fine season.

Mr. Herring of Duke
To Speak at Vespers

The Y. M. C. A. vesper services will be
conducted next Sunday night by Mr. H. J.

University, and who is vitally interested in
Y. M. C. A. work. He is a member of the
Duke Y. M. C. A. board of directors and has
been unusually helpful to that organization
in the work which it has accomplished.

The men who attended the state-wide “Y”
| cabinet meeting held last year at Duke were
|greatly impressed “by the talk which he
made. Mr. Herring is « young man and is

ent problems which confront them.

. . . > |
Herring, who is assistant dean’ at Duke

Students Initiated
Into Sigma Pi Sigma

Sigma Pi Sigma, national honorary phys-
ics fraternity, held its regular meeting last
night, March 7, in which two new pledges
were initiated into membership. These two
men were Dan Currie and Billy Blair, bids
having been issued to them at the begin-
ning of the second semester.

At the meeting preceding the one held
last night, three other pledges were initi-
ated: Bill Bogart, Hubert Powell; and-James
White. The plan had been that all five were
to be taken in at the*same time, but various
; circumstances arose which prevented the
| former two.from_ being present. Besides-the
jinitiation, the meeting also ineluded a brief
| business session and a very interesting pro-
\gram in which several members took part.
| -Sigma Pi Sigma was founded at Davidson
in 1917 and since has become one of the
foremost of national honorary fraternities.
The founding of this fraternity was largely
| due to the work of Drs. J. L. Douglas and
| J. M. Douglas, present members of the Da-
| Vidson faculty, the former being head of the
| mathematics department and the latter head
of the physics department.
| ;
| A new radio tube, said to be a practical
jsource of unlimited “cold light” with which
television screens can be flooded, has been

The Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa | qualified to advise students upon ever-pres- | demonstrated by the Myers Electrical Re-

search Laboratory in New York.

a

Dorit

Bi lise it’s back to Nature. Maybe
it’s_something else. I don’t know
just what it is, but somehow or other
I’ve just got to slip out in the woods
and sit down on a log.'I always take the
old pipe along. Thinking somehow seems
easier when you are smoking a pipe. I
can fill up my pipe with Granger, and
somehow just seem to see things clearer
than at any other time.

©1933
LIGGETT & MYERS
TOBACCO CO.

TEN CENTS

pe Hungty

The Granger pouch
keeps the tobacco fresh

“Don’t know what it is about Granger,
but it must be made for pipes—real pipe
tobacco.

**Somehow, there’s a flavor and aroma
about Granger I never found in any other
tobacco. When I pack my old pipe tight
and good with these big Granger flakes,

it’s about the coolest smoke I ever

enjoyed. It makes me downright pipe.

hungry every time I look at the package:”
Some years ago we madé a painstaking,

scientific study to find out, if we could,
the kind of tobacco best suited for pipes.

Down in the Blue Grass regions of
Kentucky, we found a tobacco called
White Burley. There is a grade of this
tobacco between the kind used for chew-
ing and the varieties suitable for cigarettes
that is best suited for pipes. This tobacco
is used in Granger.

This tobacco is prepared by a method
worked out many years ago by Mr. J. N.

Wellman. It gives Granger a fragrance
and mellowness that pipe smokers like,
and makes it burn to a clean, dry ash.
Granger never gums a pipe.

Granger has not been on sale very long,
but it has come to be popular, and there
is this much about it: We have yet to
know of a man who started smoking it,
who didn’t keep on. Folks seem to like it,
