THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 8, 1933

STATE’S RED TERRORS
MEET
VARSITY TOMORROW

‘THE SPORTS PARADE

'

DARLINGTON ENGAGES
FRESHMAN
QUINTET SATURDAY

Contests for Davidson's athletic teams

for the week include five basketball
games. Last night the Wildcats met
Duke’s Blue Devils at Durham. To-
morrow night, N. C. State’s Red Terrors
visit Davidson for the first meeting of
these two teams this season. On Friday
night the Freshman team journeys to
Balls Creek to meet the high school
team of that burgh in a return engage-
ment. Saturday night the Kittens will
be hosts to Darlington Junior College at
Davidson, while the Varsity encounters
Wake Forest at Winston-Salem. Next
Tuesday Elon College meets the Varsity
here.

Coach “Red” Laird’s basketball team
showed quite a bit of improvement on its
trip into Virginia, last week. The Roanoke
game was a rip-snorter from beginning to
end, and the Virginians barely came out vic-
torious after being extended an extra period.

jthan five points separating the two teams

‘nine foul goals was leading scorer for the

of field goals and two fouls was second.

“Monk” Youngers V. P. I. team also had!

difficulty in caging more points than the
Wildcats, and were not sure of victory until
the final Davidson's efforts were
finally against Lynchburg Col-
lege, despite that team’s use of near-football
the court.

whistle.
syecessful

tactics on

George Bailey, varsity basketball man-
ager, attributed the Davidson victory
over Lynchburg College to the left hind
foot of a negro grave-yard rabbit that
“Monk” Younger, former Davidson
coach, gave him after the V.-P.I. game
Friday night. George says that he’s not
a bit superstitious, but he’s going to
carry that rabbit’s foot with him during
the rest of the basketball season and
then maybe on the baseball mound with
him.

More than forty students have begun
competition in gymnastics for individual and
Of this number, fifteen have
than half of the events.

class honors.
completed more
If Captain Pritchett’s boxing pupils
continue to improve as rapidly the next
few days as they have in the past, there
is a possibility that the preliminaries to
the boxing tournament may be run next
week.
Baily.. the gentleman from High Point,
who refereed the wrestling match between
Duke and Davidson last Thursday, had the
Davidson students at his mercy during the
entire match, but even at that he thought
they were noisier than students at any
wrestling match that he has called this win-
ter. When told after the match that it was
the quietest the Davidson students had ever
been at a wrestling contest, he quickly re-
plied that he thought they were exception-
ally noisy.

N. C. State’s basketball team will visit
here tomorrow night anxious to regis-
ter its first victory in the Big Five race.
The. Red Terrors have lost to Carolina
and to Duke in Big Five competition,
but have possession of third place in the
Southern Conference standings with five
victories’ and two defeats. State will
come here fresh from a road trip
through Virginia where she won games
from Virginia, Washington and Lee, V.
M. I, and V. P. I.

DID YOU KNOW THAT:

Critics consider Kentucky’s team this year
the greatest basketball team that ever shot
at baskets . .
All-American high school players on its bas-
ketball team this year . . . the Gamecocks
administered the only defeat that Kentucky
has suffered this winter. .. . Navy’s basket-
ball team has won 16 straight games. . . .
The Charlotte Observer is conducting a con-

. South Carolina has four 1930 |

’Cats Win One of Five Games
Played on Out-of-State Trips

Harris Scores 68 Points
To Lead Varsity Cagers

Lynchburg~—Loses to Davidson While
Furman, Wofford, Roanoke, and
V. P. I. Win Close Contests

. j ; Charlie Harris, Sophomore forward on the
Davidson's varsity basketball team won heel ;

° ; varsity baskethz ‘am, continued to lead |
one game and lost four last week in gatnes yj a ae baeeii id ee as “ ae
Z . i ; vis te ates individual scoring for the
played on out-of-state trips. On the South uP te ara setae Pele oe are bps
: ? first twelve games of the season. Harris,

Carolina journey, which began last Mon-
day, the Wildcats dropped two games, be-
ing defeated by Furman and Wofford. .On
the Virginia trip Davidson lost to Roanoke
College and V. P. I., but won from Lynch-
burg College.

with O8 points, is closely followed by Cap-
tain Bruce Peabody with 57.

The star “Was ahead
teammates both in scoring field goals and
free throws, caging 2. 2

Sophomore of his
23 and 22,
Captain Peabody was runner-up in both de- |
partments with 19 field) goals and like
number of free throws.

respectively.

All the games were close, with not more
a

in any game except the Wofford contest,
which ended with the S. I. A. A. leaders
holding a 15-point advantage.

The playing of Dickerson and Ross fea-
tured the Wildcat play in all five games on
the two trips. Dickerson with 12 field and

Fred Dickerson, guard, who has been con- ;
verted into regular pivot man, showed the
greatest in caging 12
field goals and 10 fouls in the last five games |
to increase his total 34 points for third place |
in the standings with 46.

Dick Parker, guard, led) his) Freshman
teammates in scoring with 44 points, gath- |
ered from 19 field and six foul goals. Dil-
lard, a forward, Co-captain Windham, a
guard, and Co-captain Sanders, a forward,
were next in order with 42,39, and 34 points,
respectively.

increase scoring by

journey, while Ross with a similar number

Furman 28; Davidson 23

In the first game of the trip, played in
Greenville, S, C., the Wildcats fell for the
second time this year before Furman Uni-
versity because of the accurate shooting of
Roper, Furman center. Davidson held

ent Varsity Scoring:

11-7 advantage at half-time, but the South ron 3 a it ie
Carolinians soon forged ahead to win 28 REE Baiy CS a Ree 19 19 s7 |
to 23. Roper, the Furman center, was high J; a one esr sale “i 7 1 ai |
scorer with 16 points....Ross with seven and ! 2S ee SOS ; i :
captain Peabody with five led the Wildcats. Perea ae i Me
The Anecuney Wkodbboaydl eoennenl 2 10 0 30
Furman Position Davidson ORS AO % a = = 40
Nau (6 r (4) Harris We Hore f : : 13}
Alley F, Pye bes eamee et ne nnnton en es oN : sl
Roper (15) ze) (2) Holfand ney are Ee ele ; al
Smith (4) G. (5) Peabody | ~ Pen ine eae oem
Adair (2) G. (2) Boucher} 1, 107, RA 298
Substitutes: Furman—Turner, Littlejohn; nh “‘Pesiliiaa: Scorin zi
Davidson—Dickerson (1), Lafferty (2), Wag- Players eG FT. TP
ner. Referee: Toohey (Newberry). eed 19. ie 44
Wofford 39; Davidson 24 Diino ee Zy 8 42
Wofford College’ avenged their season's |\indham ....................18 9 39
lone defeat, which Davidson handed them at | Gayders —.------ 14 6 34
Davidson two weeks ago, by crushing the} pyryg 20 dO 9 2”
Wildcats 39 to 24. Davidson fought stub-| Topnson Joe .................. 6 3 15
bornly the first half, allowing the Southern- | \farehmont RUE ere end 0 8
ens ca, sto=ll) lead) but Wofford graduallyilitonneon mC... 1 1 3
pulled ahead during the second half. Bulling-|joyjo sitio | 1 3
ton with 12 points was the leading scorer, ISPinton 2.2 Se eee | 0 2
while Dickerson with 10 was next. Neti rasp ee ee ee) 1 1
The line-ups: | 4
Wofford Position Davidson ls (Rotiies bees ees 176 44 20
| Pollard (3) F. (3) Harris | Scam ane, Beaman
Robertson (9) i, (2) Ross | i
‘ Mooneyham (5) G; Holland ‘Coaches Pleased by
| Bullington (12) G. (2) Peabody | Football Prospects
| Hill (2) G. (5) Wagner ——.
| Substitutes : Wofford—Cannon (2), Eaker,! The spring football squad is rounding into

Holt (6); Davidson—Dickerson (10), Laf- shape ver¥nicely after more than two weeks
ferty (2). Referee: Canter (Furman), fof practice. About thirty-five men are
Roanoke 29; Davidson 28 | working out regularly and the prospects for

In the first game on the Virginia trip, | ext year’s team look exceptionally well.

| «Workouts are held every day on the prac-
|tice field and a practice game is played
| The first game,
played last Friday, brought out some excel-
{lent material, especially among the
fmen, who are filling the places of the Seniors

Davidson was nosed out of victory in an
extra period, after the teams were tied at
24-all at the end of the regular playing time. |
The Wildcats held a 13-8 advantage at half-
time, but five field goals and three fouls put
Roanoke in the running during the second
half. Garland led the scoring with 14 points, |
while Harris was high point man for Da- | year, the picked first string played the sec-
jond string, Last year the squad was divid-
led into two equal sides and practice games

every week. which was

Fresh-
Contrary to the system used last

very well,

vidson with seven.
The line-ups:

Roanoke Position Davidson | were played with much competition. Mext
Purrine (5) F, (7) Harris = = “s
Garland (14) F, (5) Peabody | ’ Big Five Standings
(Continued on page 6) |= pee WwW. L. Pct.
19 Dy Secretar 5 0 1.000
test to determine the five outstanding ath- | North Carolina _____----- 4 1 .800
letes in the Carolinas in 1932. . . . Davidson | Davidson. -—==---24-22--2 0 2 .000
students should submit the names of Charlie || N.C. State -------------- 0 2 .000
Pearce and Jack Wagner among the five.|| Wake Forest ------_----- 0 4 .000
‘ +

‘‘PREFERRED PRINTING SERVICE”?

ollege
‘Printing

Magazines, »Catalogs, Programs, Newspapers, Bulletins,
Handbooks, Etc. Engraved Cards and Invitations.
Nothing too large or small for our plant—Let us serve you
A. M. MANSON, DAVIDSON, REPRESENTATIVE

6,600 Square Feet of Floor Space Devoted to Printing,
Exclusively.

Always Best

STANDARD PRINTING CO.CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Davidson Wrestlers

Defeat Duke 15 to 11

Five Out of Eight Matches Are Taken

by Wildcats

Davidson's wrestling team won its first

mateh in three starts this season here last
Thursday night by defeating Duke Univer-

sity’s matmen 15-11. The match was the |
Blue Devils’ first of the present season.
Duke was first to score when Onisko

gained a time advantage of 8 minutes and
IS seconds over Dillon, of Dayidson, in the
118-pound Jenkins, of | Davidson,
evened the count by scoring a 4 minute, 15

class.

jsecond time advantage over Talley in the

125-pound class.
Duke won the next mateh when Troxler
had time on Owen but the next four matehes

jall went to Davidson, when Forte, Quarter-

man, Potter, and Captain Taylor gained time
advantages, to assure the Wildeats of vic-

| tory.

Keeper, wrestling in the unlimited class

for Duke, scored the only fall of the meet

when he pinned Whitfield, of Davidson, with
a body scissors and half-nelson, after eight
minutes of wrestling. Whitfield held a time
advantage at the time he was thrown.
Baily, of High Point, refereed the matches
in excellent He kept .the cheering
of the Davidson students at a minimum ex-
cept matches, when the students
gave vent to their.tied-up enthusiasm.

fashion,

between

Coach.“Doc” Unger was pleased with the |

Whitfield in 8 minutes.
Referee: Baily.

year's picked first string seems to be headed
for big Newton and

Mckver seem very will®pleased with the

things and Coaches

prospects.

Freshman Quintet Wins
Three of Four Contests
Played Here Last Week

M. P. C. I., Balls Creek High School,
and Lees-McRae Lose to Wild-
kitten Team

basketball team
siege last week,
emerging with but one defeat against three
victories. Belmont Abbey was the only team
te put the Wildkitten quint on the short
end of the score. This was the only contest
played on foreign territory.

vearling
four-game

) The Davidson

weathered a

Davidson Fresh 14; Belmont Abbey 40

Belmont Abbey's basket-ringers whipped
into action to turn back a strong Davidson
, Freshman quint on the former’s floor, by
the impressive score of 40 to 14. Cartwell
lof Belmont led the scorers with 18 points.
Burns and Marchant were high the
‘Kittens with four points each.

for

Davidson Fresh)\29; M. P. C. I. 28
Davidson's
own to

Freshman into its:
defeat the highly-touted Mount
Pleasant Collegiate Institute aggregation in
a thriller, 29 to 28. The game was
at all times, and the score indicates thor-
oughly the intensity of the play.
WE, V2, (6, WG yal
scoring, followed by
lwith nine,

team came

close

Fleming
11 counters, led the
Parker of Davidson

of

on

| - Davidson Fresh 34; Balls Creek High 26

showing of his proteges who had been, work- |» — es '

ing the past few weeks without his constant | Shay OH belated pully On tie pate ich

attention. Unger has been ill for more than | pels elds aul school, the Davidson
pa Freshman quintet put them to rout, 34 to 26,

two weeks | rn J 3

ipeenenite: {At half-time Davidson had the comfortable
; P vg 2 2b) » . hie 44 re
TH1&-pound class: Onisko, Duke, defeated | lead of 22 to 8, but the high school boys

Dillon by tine advantage of 8 minutes, 18 | Pat on the steam in the last half, and made

rrr ttry fee jthe game close. Dillard of the Frosh had
5, ase s-tentins: Pavidson: defeat te marke tsin the —seering column to nose

——t25=pomnrt Tt 3 tt : | Tp . PoDallesGrant tot 348

ed Talley, by time advantage of 4 minutes, jeuh Troutman of Balls Creek for high scor-

Tseeaacnds ing honors.
135-pound class: Troxley, Duke, defeated | Davidson Fresh 38; Lees-McRae 24

Owen by time advantage of 5 minutes, 50; ; ‘ ; i ; ; ;

i Davidson's yearling five continued its win-
q ef n Fs . e776 . °
ae Y (en i f: David \ ining streak by decisively trouncing the for-
RA eUrT AER ee eal

F fe ya j ASS: es ‘i sraps Hi }midable Lees-McRae Institute quint in the
vate eC : > advantage minute, "

x tec ie Vv time advantage o € jlecal gym by a 38 to 24 count. Lees-Me-
seconds. : : .
eee i foal Ouarienn MAOH ) Rae turned on all the steam in the first half,

55-pound class: arterman, Davidson, | pee ; se!
lef ite i a. : i say any 8 and were well out in front at intermission.

( % é aqerson Vv * aadve age oO; . . 5 hq)
ate Hee ‘a sul} ' Lee RS Pec e. jIn the final canto, however, Coach Mathis

minutes, 18 seconds. :
16k vat ap David thes |boys rallied, and completely outplayed the

WAPOA CHEER cetol tiny NACE ue cat- | visitors. Sanders, Davidson forward, was
ed Lemon by time advantage of 4 minutes, |). . peel

20 ad . high scorer, making 12 points. Agle scored

. Seco. » + . “

as - ‘i }seven points to top the scorers for Lees-
165-pound class: Captain Taylor, David- | renee eons ae = me
son, defeated Apple by time advantage of |. : 4 aed

Terni ceeenis Po date the Freshmen have had a fairly
Unlimited class: Keeper, Duke, threw jsuccessful season, having five victories

The teams beaten
| Trust of “Charlotte,
| Salisbury High Scheol, Mount Pleasant Col-
ECE Institute, Balls Creek High School,
|
|

{against but four defeats.

include Independence

and Lees-McRae Institute. Belmont Abbey
has put down the ‘Wittens twice, while Salis-
}bury High School and the Wofford Fresh-
‘men each hold one vietory

over Davidson,

x

~ Suits and

A

Seven Years Experience

Our New Tailoring Department

Opens CLuesdau

FEBRUARY 14th

Individually Tailored and Fitted:
Priced From

$16.50 to $38.50 |
Mr. P. S. RANDOLPH, Special Representative
IVEY'S

DAVIDSON
SHOP

Overcoats

in Outfitting College Men |

