THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 5, 1933

Davidson Five and
Ten Years Ago

: FIVE YEARS AGO

John Currie, holder of the state dash rec-
ord, was chosen head of the Athletic Asso-
ciation for the coming year, Carl Pritchett
and. Tom Brohard were elected vice-presi-
dents.

The R. O. T. C. Department was inspected
by officials of the army staff from Wash-
ington, D. C. They began the inspection in
the classroom and finished with
on the drill field.

In the recent student body elections, Brown
McQueen was named editor-in-chief of the
Chameleon, literary publication, and Aubrey
Prown was selected as editor-in-chief of the
Davidsonian, college weekly.

Ten heophytes.became members of the
Reporters’ Club when that organization held
its initiation’ last Friday night.

Davidson's track team lost a dual meet
to N. C. State by the score of 73 to 53. The
high spot of the meet was the running of
Captain Currie and Heath Whittle.

The local battalion of the Reserve Offi-
cers Training Corps was awarded the high-
est average on the distinguished rating with
a grade of 92.43 per cent.

Coach Younger’s diamond artists left for
a six-day invasion of Virginia on last Mon-

day.

a review

r TEN YEARS AGO

On April 7th the student body
unanimously to abolish all forms of hazing.
The ballot came at the close a three-
month period during which hazing was ex-
perimentally abandoned, and the Court of

of

Control adopted as a means of handling the |

Freshiiian class. The faculty showed its ap-
preciation by granting the student body an

voted

| gymnasium Saturday night was the most
j}successful item of the festivity and was a
| glorious climax for the week-end.

Mu Beta Psi

At a recent meeting of Mu Beta Psi,
national musical fraternity, the follow-
ing men were issued bids to become
members of that organization: J. T.
Blair, A. M. Cunningham, R. E. Con-
oley, -W. M. Hart, S. M. Hines, H. H.
Hodgin, D. P. McLain, W. M. Mcll-

Eu Literary Society |
| Has Unusual Meeting

|
| \ varied and delightful program was pre-
jsented to the Eumenean Literary Society on

Tuesday night, March 28. Upon President winen, M. R. Pop’, W. A. L. McKeith-
Jake Mackorell calling the meeting to order, ancde Ac Rebindon: ahd Franke Pucker,
Charlie Moore led in prayer, followed by

; : : | These men will be initiated at a
the roll call and the reading of the pees meeting of the fraternity to be held
ING cirrent-events—givetihy—Martin_Bare || te ome -timeincthe-near—fus
ture. Officers for the coming year will
also. be elected at this meeting.

hett were representative of the leading news
items of the day, and were well presented.
He gave the leading argumnts of the “Wets” |

and “Drys” about beer, which is to be le-

Shine STUNT at . ey 2 a) wri,
galized April 7. Then he stated that Amos}™!'"ey Save avery forectul Chile Phe
Woodcock, national prohibition director, is Farmer's Home,” by Henry W. Grady. Fol-

ne lowing this, Viee-President Richard Banks

: : . . . ra] Ys *e: ve f readi
trating his efforts, instead, on stopping up!“ ! S Caldwell of reading
the program, Caldwell answered in the nega

“easing on is concen-

up speakeasies.”

ccused T during
tle sources of liquor. : :
jtive, and said that Banks, who wears glasses,
After the
ceased, Caldwell was fined

President Roosevelt at his tirst press cor-

‘ 4 ' , . . * . -
ference was the next topic. The new Presi- |e"! see anyway, laughter had

dent cast aside all precedent in the informal

meeting, letting the reporters ask him ques-| Upon consideration of unfinished business,
tions, in addition to making informal state-|the negotiations with Mitchell College, of
ments. He was cheered heartily at the end| Statesville, for an exchange of programs
of the meeting. : was discussed, after which the society was

Another
been arranged for

excellent has

the

° . adi - .
In conelusion, Barnett mentioned the very adjourned
significant remarks Professor Smith, of

the of Toledo. He said that the -

great majority of rural road accidents are] NEW STAFF OF EDITORS
due to the lack of judgment on the part of TAKE OVER DAVIDSONIAN

the driver. Out of two hundred and thirty- Pham sen

program

hext meeting.

University SS Ak 20h

tliree accidents considered in a recent sur-
hundred and
known to have been caused either by

(Continued from page 1)
He
erary life of the college through his column
“The
further

wy, one twenty-seven were

care- | ternity gained a high place in the lit

lessness or indecent road manners on the

will
his

in Davidsonian” last vear, and

to
talent this vear as athletic editor. He is also
serving on “The Yow!.”

part of the driver.
Ed Hodge then

a yery interesting have opportunity exercise

paper “The Relation of Chemistry to
Water Works.” The processes
that water goes through making it fit. for

fead
on
Municipal

Ben Rose, of Fayetteville, is a member

| His leadership has been recognized and util- |SMYRE AND WEEKS ELECTED

lized in the “Y’ work. | TO LEAD SENIORS, JUNIORS
K. D. Weeks, of Rocky Mount, is a mem- |
jber of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fra- |
‘ternity, and is president of the rising Junior |

(Continued from page 1)
was recently selected as a managing editor

‘class. He held the position of secretary-|0f “The Davidsonian.”

treasurer of the Sophomore class; made his| Tommy Phifer, Mims Rogers, Walter
numerals in baseball, and was elected to|Sprunt, Kk. D. Weeks, and Lee West were
ithe “Beaver Club.” |the nominees for the presidency of the 1934

| {Junior class.

In the absence of Gordon “Skip” ‘Brown,
New Officers Chosen |president of the Sophomore class, who was
For Volunteer Band

| ‘ ‘ ; .
jaway on a debating trip, the voting was in

charge of Joe Wadsworth, vice-president of
|the class.
leean : ; Voting in ‘all three elections was close.
Che Student Volunteer Band met at the | pias :
: : ; | The closest was the voting for the presidency
regular hour Sunday afternoon, April 2, to! - ; ; A ‘
oF 7 2 , < . of the Sophomore class of next year, which
clect officers for the coming year. Francis : Tien 4
Diaewes , ae : . | resulted in a deadlock. Bill Bowman, Addi-
Scott, of Tsinanfu, China, was elected presi- | rt si ;
Wnts Bilii ane srenizer, Lamont Brown, Dick May-
lent, te ; ! “y ee ; ;
: * | worth, Gill Murray, Dick Parker, Bob Rich-

Gammon, of Lavras, Brazel, was chosen as rar °
: ) 4 ae : ardsonjand Archie Shuford were the nomi-
vice-president, and Harvey Ross, of Patz-

son

succeed Morrow.

‘ nets for the office, all of whom, with the
cuaro, Mexico, as secretary-treasures, suc- . rr op >:
, : i ; VAaN a : ‘ exception of Parker and Richardson, were
ceeding Bob Woodside and Francis Scott, eas .
S as eliminated on the first ballot.
respectively. At the recent state-wide con- i pie ;
; a shat % Jerome Clark, president. of the student
ference held at Greensboro,' Bob Coit, of ; 5 pa
ae : body, conducted the voting of the fresh-
Richmond, Va., was elected treasurer for the :

man class.
State group at large. emcee ae NTE Te

Mock Trial Features

The local band of the Volunteers is com-
posed of those students who are either plan- |

hing to go to the foreign field and sefve as Phi Society Program
missionaries, or are interested in missions |

and Wish to become better acquainted. with} (¢.) A. MeNeill, acting president. of the
their organization and purpose. To arouse | Philanthropic Literary Society, was im-

interest in missions, the band sends out dep-! peached at the regular meeting on Tuesday
utations to the message | yight, March 2 trial the
of the foreign field; and to foster closer re- startling expose by the prosecution of con-
lations between the groups in the colleges,

the churches with ey ahgk G) featuring

spiracy among officers of the organization.
exchange deputations between institutions

The motion for impeachment was made by
arranged, Courtney
The

chapter

are Ross, who accused the vice-presi-

dent of contempt of authority, claiming that
he had asked President Will Rachal to leave
the hall in order that he might preside over
the MeNeill vielded the chair to
H. W. Lueas, and the trial followed,

new leaders have outlined a chapter
of the
Thinking Missions,”
ot

student

hy study much-discussed

“Re and take this op-
cordial invitation
who would care to associate

portunity
to

extending a mecting.

any

extra holiday. jhuman consumption were illustrated “by of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity. He, himself with the band in this study, and in Ross served as prosecuting attorney and

Junior Speaking went on record as being) using for an examples a nearby municipali bas won an enviable place on the varsity /its other activities. The Volunteers meet! TH], W. Johnson acted as attorney for the
the most brilliant affair ever staged at Da-j plant track team; was. clected to the “Beaver}every Sunday afternoon at 1:30 in the So-| defense. S. F. Marsh and W. L. Fugate were
vidson. The Black Cat Cabaret, held in the Completing the regular program, Luther | Club.” and recently, the Court of Control.| cial Center. (Continued on page 4)

Headquarters sends out good music and good
songs 6 nights a week to 50 million people from
coast to coast. . . with the voice of Norman Brok-
enshire... just about the best announcer in this
country... to tell you ‘‘Chesterfields are milder and
taste better.”’

nights a week over a coast-to-coast network reach-
ing 50 million people?

to know that Chesterfield cigarettes are milder.

A

in easy chairs, behind closed doors, while from a
sound-proof room... perhaps thousands of miles
away...comes the music that you listen to on the
Chesterfield program.

M ] RAC LE ...You sit at home

That sealed room in the Columbia Broadcasting

Why is the Chesterfield Program broadcast 6
We want to tell e

Because weswant every smoker in this country
on a Liccetr &

very smoker from coast to coast

that Chesterfield cigarettes taste better...
We want everyone to know that they can depend

Myers product.

THEY’RE MILDER—

THEY TASTE BETTER

© 1933, Liccerr & Myzrs Tosacco Co.
