THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 9, 1934'

The PDavidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

Member of

Associated Tebegiate Pres

== 1933 Gator ) 1934 =

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:

$2.00 the
legiate year.

Ten cents per copy;

Col-

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at basal)

orth Carolina, under the act of March 3rd,

Articles for publication must be in the hands of Managin
y 4:00 o'clock p. m., Monday.
welcome, but al communications
must be signed.

Editors
Letters to the Editor are
intended for publication

ae GRANT D. WEEKS...
J. A. C. WADSWORTH

.-Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

MARTIN BARNETT..._.......-....----.--2--------- ae enaerae Editor

--Associate
--Associate

L, ROSE
JACK He LLINGER-.._.

Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
.-Associate Editor
sctccucccacksccccecs cosceececASEQClate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
COLEMAN BRANTON..
A. G BRE R

.-.----.-------Assistant Business Manager
--Assistant Business Manager

i, a GOSLE --Assistant Business Manager
VAL CASSEL --Assistant s M r
TOM ROSS. --Assistant Business Manager
a S. McML --Assistant Business Manager

. PB MORROW, Sane .-.-Assistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, MAY_9, 1934

MY MOTHER
I loved you when I saw you
Many happy years ago.
Yes, I gave you all the love I had,
‘Though then I did not know
Just what a mother’s love could mean—
How it could keep me so.

Each day you toiled hard for me
To make each thing a treat.

Those things you did—that love you had—
They never shall be beat.

They had a hidden meaning
Which I find now was so sweet.

«ls days, and weeks, and months,
Alnd years of time went by,

I grew into my manhood—
You could not let me die.

That unsurpassing love you had
Formed the strongest family tie.

Now, Mother dear, that I have grown,
Als all boys grow some day,

To take my place cin this great 2
To live—to be—to do, 1 pray

That you might understand
My love for you grows more cach day!

—W. W. THROWER.

vorld

THE GREATEST
OF ALL LOVES

Countless have been written on
mothers, their love, and things associated with
mothers, but it is agreed that even this is not
enough to say in love and reverence of the one
to whom everyone owes such a debt. Mere
words cannot express the feeling of a son for
his mother. There are many times during
each year that we realize the things that our
mothers have done for us, and wish that there
Was some appropriate way of showing our
gratitude.

One-day—only—in-each year is set aside as
one especially dedicated to mothers. This
seems a small’ recognition of the enormous
obligations that we owe them. That fact alone
makes it absolutely necessary that we give,
as much as possible, that day to them. It is
an opportunity for every man to show, in some
way, his devotion to his mother, his thankful-
ness for all that she has done for him, all that
she has meant to him.

volumes

At college, especially when distance prevents —

a great many men from being at home on that
day, the problem is even more acute. Letters,
telegrams, gifts, are familiar methods of show-
ing one’s love, but they cannot take the place
of personal association on that day.
Regardless of where we are, let us on this
coming Sunday communicate with our moth-
ers in some way and assure them that we are
appreciative of their love and sacrifices for-us.

SUMMING UP
THE FOUR YEARS

Swiftly approaching the consummation of
a four-year course here at Davidson College,
-we members of the Senior Class will find our-
selves subjected to. various queries from per-
sons engaged in many professional and voca-
tional quarters of human endeavor. Perhaps
we. are interested in asking ourselves these
. Same questions and also in reflecting in search
of the answers. What have we accomplished?
: What have we learned and what are the indel-
‘ible impressions which our undergraduate col-
“lége careers have carved upon our lives and

_its unfaltering road to understanding.

characters? Have we been prepared well in
order that we may be of service to others?

The statement is prevalent among many
which accuses the college graduate of today
as being one who, has apparently ane all
there is té°featn.” He seems to think, it is
stated, that his senior fellowmen are all more
ignorant than he and that there is none upon
the face of the earth who can teach him some-
thing new or worthwhile. Business and indus-
trail employers have been quoted often as say-
ing that the college graduate must throw off
his enveloping cloak of vanity before he can
be of value to their enterprises. In view of
this accusation, what does the college gradu-
ate have to say for himeslf in defense? There
are, of course, conceited and vain individuals
who have college degrees and who are respon-
sible for the introduction of this belief into
the minds of some; but are there not individ-
uals of this sort involved in the many phases
of all human endeavor? The college graduate
cannot alone be accused for such an impro-
priety. It should be pointed out that there
are large numbers of young men finishing aca-
demic work each year who realize how little
they really do know, and who are willing and
anxious to hear and heed the admonitions of
their elders whom they sincerely admire and
respect. May those who have accused us, the
college graduates, more closely inquire into
our minds and hearts; then it will be seen, we
trust, that our vast majority stands ready to
receive instruction.

Our journey through four years of college
life has deeply imprinted upon our minds the
true values of a well-behaved existence in all
its aspects: socially, mentally, physically, and
spiritually. Especially have we discovered that
in cultivating our intellects do we gain rich
rewards. Ambition has at last penetrated our
thick exteriors to become a permanent driving
force within us. Unpleasant it is indeed to
reflect how unambitious we were four or six
years ago. We were then exceedingly unfa-
miliar with the true meaning of study with
Today,
though we are far from having great knowl-
edge and wisdom, nevertheless we feel that we
have at least received a glimmering of what
intellectual prowess connotes. For this glim-
mering we are rightfully thankful, since on its
account have we become ambitious ; and those
of us who know what this ambition means to
us shudder at the thought that it might have
been our fate, as it has been of so many un-
fortunates, not to have had the privilege of a
college education. That ambition, moreover,
after having been instilled into our beings has
been directed in the right paths toward truth
and all the virtues of life. May it never be
our lot to permit that the luster of these gems
of goodness grow less bright as they shine at
the ends of these paths toward which we
should ever stride.

It would be unbefitting not to mention that
which is of equal magnitude with all else that
we have gained; namely, our friendships. Re-
luctantly, we face the last few days which re=
main. Soon our class will depart from this
college never to gather again in its entirety.
The few gatherings which are still left for us
to enjoy with one another will certainly be
spent enjoyably; yet sorrowfully. The class
of 1934 has nearly reached the end of its four-
year course, but only the beginning of a much
harder and longer course which will stretch
into the future for an unknown length of time.
Let us wish one another “God Speed” and
good luck always in anything which we may
undertake, —F.L.S

Here and There

The University of Missouri will forego all
interscholastic tennis competition this year be-
cause of lack of funds for the sport.

A “live-within-your-budget” program is the

“essential element in bringing about operating

economies in college administration, according
to W. C. Trotter, business manager of the
Mississippi State College for Women. “Insti-
tutions, like individuals, should learn the les-

son of careful planning and of prudent, spend-
ing.”

A wind velocity of 231 miles per hour, the
highest ever recorded, has been charted at the
Mount Washington, N. H., observatory. It
was three times as fast as the average hurri-
cane.

Dr. David P. Barr, professor of medicine at
Washington University, will go to Australia
this summer to deliver a special course of lec-
tures at the University of Melbourne.

The men of St. Louis University have re-

“volted: They are griping because they have

to shave too often.
mand it.

Reason: The co-eds de-

A The Broadcaster -«

AN EXPLANATION

This is the fourth appearance of
The Broadcaster and perhaps it is
about time for me to explain what it
is all about. This explanation comes
as a result of my tour around the cam-
pus in seeking to find out how the stu-
dents regard the weekly programs of
The Broadcaster. My identity being
a secret, I found out many things and
received some new ideas in regard to
a suctessful coliimn, “But there was
one thing which this department didnt
put across, and that was the purpose
of The Broadcaster. I heard one stu-
dent remark, “The discussions of the
problems on the campus have been
most interesting, but why in the world
did he have to mix in the ramblings
about spring?” The intention oi this
column is to broadcast to the students
everything which is fit to print in the
form of variety and entertainment with
every student taking part. Some things
written may not attract some readers,
but at the same time these same things
may appeal to others, This depart-
ment urges you to offer your criti-
cisms, and your suggestions, to present
a better column.

THE PRESENT GRADING
SYSTEM

Something certainly should be done
to change the grading system which is
now instituted at Davidson. The sen-
timent of the writer is the same as that
expressed in the editorial regarding the
grading system which appeared two
weeks ago.

ARE BOOKS OVER-
EMPHASIZED?

While we have our textbooks before
us each day, do we limit our intellec-
tual pursuits to only what we find in
our books when we prepare: for the
daily recitations? Do we at the same
time realize what is happening today
in the every-day affairs of our nation?
Are we interested in the happenings
of Congress and what the _ political
leaders are deciding for the good of the
citizens? Do we read intellectually the
best newspapers and magazines just
the same as we study for the class-
rooms? If you do, I congratulate you.
But there are more of us who do not
know anything outside of the classes.
Let's wake up to realize that we are
living in a nation where there is more
education to be found than in a hun-
dred textbooks.
MORE ABOUT FRESHMAN
VOTING
Dear Broadcaster:

In reading your column, I have be-

come much interested in the question
of freshman voting, both as you your-
self have discussed it, and as our es-
teemed alumnus, Bill Mulliss, has seen
fit to discuss it. I hesitate to take issue
with one whose opinions I feel are far
superior to mine, and I trust Bill will
pardon my audacity in doing so.

First, in my opinion, freshmen know
more men during their freshman year

rthan at any other time during their

college life. I feel, in view of my own
experience as a freshman, that most
freshmen know the candidates as well
as they do in later years. Perhaps they
do know some of the upper classmen
only by reputation, but this condition
is by no means confined to the Fresh-
man class. Few freshmen, indeed, do
not know men of sufficient prominence
to be nominated for offices in the SPEEE
classes.

Next, I do not agree with the idea
that freshmen are influenced by propa-
ganda any more than other members
of the student body. If the elections
were held at any time during the first
semester, this fact might be true, but
since they are held toward the latter
part of each school year, I can see
little basis for it. However, suppose
the freshmen are affected by propa-
ganda because of the “newness” of
voting; will not this feeling of “new-
ness” affect them as sophomores, if
they do not vote during their fresh-
man year? If this evil is actually pres-
ent, it seems to me that depriving
freshmen of voting merely serves to
postpone the condition until the begin-
ning of their sophomore year’s elec-
tions.

I acknowledge the presence of un-
desirable conditions, but I firmly be-
lieve that the method now used to
eliminate such conditions is not only
futile, but actually harmful.. Why de-
prive freshmen uselessly of the privil-
ege of voting? The elimination of this
rule. might be worth while, experi-
mentally at least, for a time. There is
no doubt in my mind that the experi-
ment would prove successful.

I agree with “Guess Who” in desir-
ing discussion on the grading system.

“Interested.”
A CORRECTION

Julian West informs this department
that it was in error when it was stated
that freshmen did not vote for their
representative on the Student Council.
It is triie that they could vote in this
election and in the election of their
rising class officers.

Let’s Listen In

Spanning the World:

CBS technicians co-operate with
RCAC engineers to exhibit another
phase of globe-circling radio communi-
cations, at 3:00 p. m., Wednesday,
May 9.

Newton D. Baker:

The former Secretary of War will
speak at the American Judicature So-
ciety on “ Better Administration of Jus-
tice” from Constitution Hall in Wash-
ington, Wednesday, May 9, 9:30-10:00
p. m., NBC.

Chief Justice Hughes:

Charles Evans Hughes will be heard
over CBS for the second time in two
months, addressing the American Law
Institute at the Mayflower Hotel in
Washington, Thursday, May 10, 10:00-
11:00 a. m,

Walker Cup Matches:

Eye-witness accounts of the Walker
Cup matches at St. Andrews, Scotland,
will be short-waved to listeners in tune
with WABC-CBS network, Friday,
May 11, at 12:25 p. m., and again May
12, Saturday, at 3:18 p. m. Bernard
Darwin will give the accounts.

Floyd Gibbons:

The headline hunter is returning to
the air, on a program sponsored by
Johns-Manville over NBC at 8:00 p. m.,
Saturday, May 12. This program will
be dramatized and is to feature the 16-
piece orchestra of Nathanial Schilkret.
Pimlico:

Thomas Bryan George, CBS turf ex-
pert, will describe the Preakness, an-
nual feature of the Mayland Jockey
Club and one of the country’s outstand-
ing turf events, from the track at Pim-
lico, Saturday, May 12, at 4:45 p. m.
Mother's Day:

The mother of the President, Mrs.
James Roosevelt, is to join the special
hour-long Mother's Day program over
an NBC network next Sunday, May 13,
Howard Barlow:

The Symphonic Hour, presenting the
Columbia Symphony Orchestra, under
the direction of Howard Barlow, will
fill one hour of the WABC-CBS net-
work period vacated by the N. Y. Phil-
harmonic-Symphony Orchestra during
the summer months, beginning Sunday,
May 13, from 2:00 to 3:00 p. m.
Sylvia Sidney:

This film favorite will speak from

Los Angeles as guest star of “45 Min-
utes in Hollywood,’ which will also
feature a radio interview of the new
film, “ Thirty-Day Princess,” which
stars Miss Sidney and Cary Grant.
Helen Mencken:

Returning by popular demand, this
distinguished stage star will make her
third guest appearance in six weeks
with “The Big Show,” between acts of
her appearance in “ Mary of Scotland.”
CBS, Sunday, May 13, at 9:30 p. m
Marion Davies:

Glamorous film star will be heard
during the weekly Hollywood broad-

cast as Louella Parsons’ interview
guest, CBS, Wednesday, May 16, at
12:15,

JACK. OAKIE will replace MYRT
and MARGE when the latters’ contract
expires this simmer.

JAMES MELTON replaces LANNY
ROSS on the Showboat program,
May 17.

The COMPINSKY trio used $60,000
worth of instruments for their broad-
cast last Sunday. The instruments were
loaned for the broadcast from the
Wurlitzer collection. They are a $40,-
000 Stradivarius violin and a $20,000
Guarnerius violincello.

The Ford Motor Company Dealers
have renewed their contract with the
CBS, presenting the musical variety
shows of FRED WARING every
Thursday and sandy, night from 8:30
to 9:00.

CLIVE BROOK will be heard ina
radip adaptation ‘of Michael Arlen’s

*Three-Cornered Moon,” Wednesday,
May 9, 8:30 p. m. LESLIE HOWARD
and ROLAND YOUNG have been se-
cured for subsequent broadcasts on
the-same—program.—

DUKE ELLINGTON and his orches-
tra are back in Hollywood to make
two additional numbers for Mae West's
new picture, “It Ain’t No Sin.”

If GEORGE ARLISS goes on the
air it is going to cost heavily. He re-
cently turned down offers to appear
as guest artist on the Hall of Fame
program, saying that if he went on the
air it would not be for less than 13
programs, which he would do for
‘$100,000,

Compassing The
Campus

With spring here, and exams looking
us in the’ face, everybody seems to be
trying to make the best of the few
weeks left before the dread examina-
tion period. Now is the time to make
the most of young life—we can think,
study, ponder, meditate, consider, re-
flect, contemplate, deliberate, cogitate,
and ruminate later—for the present
let's all be happy.

SOCIETY

As a means toward this end the
S. A. E. banquet and house party was
held last weekeend; a ducky banquet
brought joy to young hearts as that
chapter celebrated the coming of spring
at the Charlotte Country Club. Ladies
were plentiful. Three members of the
chapter, however, turned up their noses
at the local shindig, and traipsed off
to Sweetbriar for their May Frolic;
the fortunate young Lochinvars were
Brenizer, Eaton, and Weeks. We saw
Adelaide Fortune, of Greensboro, with
Zeke Martin; she would save money
and trouble if she enrolled as a co-ed
at Davidson, methinks.

River parties galore will come off
next week; despite the low ebb of in-
terest in river blow-outs at the present
time, we predict a joyous period of
gaiety for many Davidsonians next
week-end. The Pikas stole a march
on the other Greeks and held their
party last week, with a number of fe-
male attendants.

ANENT CHAPEL

Probably the chapel exercises would
be greatly improved if certain sopho-
mores and juniors, and seniors, and
freshmen weren't required to attend.
There are always some who insist on
hissing, whistling, stomping their feet,
booing, waving, and generally playing
around. From the standpoint of the
administration and faculty, these shines
are most deplorable, and should be
stopped. Personally, I think that these
little childish incidents (where they
are not irreverent) are very amusing,
and would encourage their cultivation
to a higher degree of good humor and
fun. True it is childish to act in such
a fashion in chapel, but some of us
are still children at heart.

REMINISCENT

We can still recall at the Bowery
Ball, in colorful and brilliant costume :
Marjorie Robinson, Alice Boatwright,
Chic Barringer, Virginia Carey, Sarah
Metz, Jack Williams, Tom Marchant,
Duke Glasgow,. Flash Ormond (the
(Pansy), and Addison Brenizer.

MAY DAY

Recent May Day celebrations which
have attracted numerous local studs
include those held at Queens-Chicora
with Miss Hubbard as Queen; Salem
College, whence journeyed Warner Du-
Bose with a carload of locals, including
Bill Brewer, Dick Hayworth, and
others. We hear that our noble Y sec-
retary stopped over there while on the
way to a deputation speech,

ET CETERA

TWADDLE & PALAVER: Paul
Pittman trying to sell Davidson pen-
nants around at the various dormi-
tories for 89c; he travelled all over
West until Jack Williams finally sucked
in and bought one just to get rid of
him. ... The underwater scene in Tar-
zan and His Mate merits particular
commendation as an artistic master-
piece. ... We extend thanks to WBT
for their frequent playing of “Straw-
berry Roan,” “The Old Cornet,” and
“The Man on the Flying Trapeze” on
their early morning vic program. ...
We wonder who the Cornelius dam-
sel is that has attracted the consistent
attention of John Lee and Ormond.

. A ludicrous sidelight occurred in
South the other night when Dewey
Hutchins tried to persuade A. J. Pot-
ter to go to the roadhouse and bring
him back a hot-dog; wonder where
Dewey eats. . . . One faculty member
remarked in class that he didn’t mind
the students looking at their watches
continually, but when they begin to
listen to the watches to make sure they
haven't stopped, it is the last straw...
Miller Cochrane was the only one in
the crowd who was power enough to
get a date when J. B. Lee, Gatewood,
and Pittman accompanied him on a re-
cent trip to Salem College. . . . Duke
Glasgow is very much interested in
Greensboro; he stopped off there when
the track team was returning from
their Duke trip and didn’t show up till
next day .... twaddle, gossip, rumor,
palaver, nonsense .... etc.

QUIPS-AND CRANKS
WILL APPEAR SOON

(1 a8ed wosy panuijuo>)
for publications this year will be avail-

able for the new staff for next year’s
work.” The annual did not exceed its
budget for this year, which is decided
by the Publications Board.

Bob Smith was elected to publish
“Quips and Cranks” for the ensuing
year and Sam Eaton~-was chosen as
business manager. They are aiding in
editing this edition of the “Quips and
Cranks.”
