THE DAVIDSONIAN,

SEPTEMBER 26, 1934

_ THE DAVIDSONIAN ©

nOune ed a) ere Class of 1915.

ciated "Golle fi
Associated “31886 Glial Bien 935 i pees

1935e
wisconsin

mtohaspah a Ww eekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY

Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 8rd, 1879.

stata ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION
must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m.,
Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communica-
tions intended for publication must be signed,

K. D. WEEKS . . oe 0 6 8 ee ew « Retr
J. A. GC WADSWORTH | See 0 Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

MARTIN: BARNET Goluloglel ole pepe yy Managing Editor
PAUL HANUAN Ghabectusenadeuaus Managing Editor
Tom MArcHANT Managing Editor
Joun WALKER Managing Editor
LAMONT Brown Ss Editor
Harvey Gass — Editor
Exip Bowers Editor
CARLYLE Lewis Editor
Scotty MeLrop “eature Lditor
G. Le Guiierrr {ssociate Editor
EK. B. MePuai elssociate Editor
3. L. Rose wow {ssociate Editor
Jack FEINGRR ee esas .2....-lssociate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

COURMAN:BRANTON, cecucsuccucecccees st. Business Mer.
Ai GYCDRENIZER cuscalvccuuuucuowsssue Business Mgr.
J. B. Gostes sst. Business mee
Vat Cassens . Business Mgr.
PONVOROSS 2 cco ce sudue eee Busiv Mor.
Jes MGNIDECEN giclee oboueooss . Business Mar.
R. P. Morrow - st. Business Soild

Read not to eo ne and ene nor to believe
and take for granted, nor to find talk and discourse;
but to.weigh and consider.

POOR CHEERING
AT ELON GAME .

The cheering from the stands at the Elon game

last Saturday was a most deplorable slam on the re-
known Davidson spirit. The pep and enthusiasm
started off at the beginning of the game with its
usual gusto but as soon as we had scored once or
twice it began to dwindle, taking it for granted that
our part had been done as far as cheering was con-
cerned, Naturally, after our team had piled up such
a lead it was not necessary to cheer so vehemently,
but the student body failed to respond even in a
mediocre fashion to the school yells and songs that
the cheer leaders led It was evident that the
freshmen and the leaders did most of the cheering.

The results were indeed disappointing consider-
ing the fact that this year we have the largest stu-
dent enrollment and the largest band in the history
of the school.

With the hard schedule that we face for the re-
mainder of the season it will be necessary that we
give the utmost of codperation from the stands
the way of cheering and rooting.

Let us in the following games display that fight
and spirit from the cheering section, the greatest we
are capable of, which should be comparable to that
which the Wildcats will undoubtedly be displaying

on the field,

SEATING ALPHABETICALLY
IN THE CLASS ROOMS

“Mr, Apfelheim, Mr. Ashe-Kahn, Mr. Aster...
Mr. Wrinkle-Schnapp, Mr. Wrotten-Wroe, Mr. Wu
... and so it goes, down the interminable line of
Freshmen, of Sophomores, of Juniors, and even of
Seniors, all of them seated in long, sad, regular
lines, each resignedly answering his name as called,
like Campbell’s Soup—alphabetically.

Of course, the thing has its supreme advantages,

as everyone knows

everyone who has. ever tried
teaching a class, who has ever been confronted with
the glaring problem of learning and piecing together
the assorted variety of faces and names that can
manage to assemble themselves under that head. A

all,
well to expect him haphazardly to call on the mem-

teacher, after has his limitations; it’s all very
bers of his class while looking in exactly the right
direction for receiving the answer if any; but con-
He
sa busy, a harrassed, an intent, if scholarly gentle-
man; and his time is altogether taken up as it is,

+ .
sider what else a teacher has to take care of.

what with writing out absence-slips, putting down
grades, getting reviews on the blackboard, catching
his assistant off guard and making him hand back
tests corrected on time, and then goodness knows

what doesn’t have he to do in the way of learning
stuff actually to teach his class. Oh, dear me yes,
it really is altogether deplorable to take exception
to a busy teacher's innocently and entirely for con-
venience’s sake seating his class according to the
way the first letter of their names come in the alpha-
bet.

However, a spade very definitely is a spade and
all that,
souls (outwardly ; inwardly,

and there are some exceedingly brusque
we shall see, they are

exceedingly sensitive), there are some who would
take issue with thé current, though happily not uni-
versal, pedogogical mode of arranging students alpha-
betically about the room. My good friend, Mr. Xeno-
crate, for instance. You would never guess looking
at his simple face almost hidden as it is behind its
ample black beard that here was a Sensitive Soul.
But-such is the t

case. You see, my friend Xenocrate

is the son of Y. Z. Xenocrate, the eminent manu fac-

turer of the famous ‘“Xenocrate’s Mouth Wash”,
and my friend simply cannot abide having invari-
ably to sit next to Socially Careless Mr. Xyther.
And yet, would you guess it, neither can my good
friend Mr. Nyther-abide sitting next to that bar-

barous M. he is one of the

Xenocrate ; incidentally,
razor-blade Xythers, and Xenocrate’s beard gets in
Also,

Zekiel Zone; why, those two are a veritable pair of

his hair. take,the case of Abner Anser and

Damon and Pythias. What have we though? Well,
they absolutely never get a chance to play tic-tac-to
together in class; if Abner is on the front row (a
position he particularly dislikes), Zeke is certain to
be way back on the last row (a position he has a
congenital loathing for). And so it goes.
Mark you, this is no radical protest, no voicing of
Nay,

the faint, meckly venturesome, and we hope courteous

red sedition or anything of the sort. tis but

plea of one who dislikes the monotony of alphabeti-

cal seating. As a Frosh one expected it; one was
resigned as a Sophomore; but in this the fourth year
“an isn't

one makes so bold as to question . Im

it a bit... well, regimental ?

“RUSH WEEK”
NOT A SUCCESS

The writer at the start admits of knowing no so-
Ile
also admits of knowing no rushing system anywhere

called perfect and fool-proof rushing system,

quite so flagrantly inefficient as the Davidson system.

Briefly, it may be said that the task here is moti-

vated simply by a desire to eliminate and destroy
the existing Davidson system. We have in mind no
plan which we hold would be more effective, believ-

ing that any substitute would be an improvement.

The recent “rush week” bore in its van more dis-
satisfaction, more unpleasantness than possibly any
other fraternity rush week here before. ‘This dis-

satisfaction and unpleasantness was visited upon both
*rushee and fraternity.

The fraternities had no adequate, fair opportunity
to study the men they were rushing, This will, in
all probability, result in a breaking of pledges later
in the year, a situation embarrassing to both fraterni-
ty and pledge.

The, rushee was so completely baffled by the in-
tense competition Between the fraternities interested
in him that he felt that it would be wise to make a
choice early in order to get the whole thing, over
with. Tle was given no opportunity to weigh the
advantages and disadvantages of those fraternities.
The only things he knew of those interested frater-
nities were those told him by fraternity spokesmen
and the natural order during rushing is toward high-
flung description and general exaggeration. In other
words, the fraternity with a smooth tongued rusher
Without

into

has a greater than ordinary advantage.
question more rushees were “high-pressured”’
fraternities which they knew little or nothing about
than at any other period in Davidson fraternity his-
tory.

There is probably not a fraternity man on this
campus who favors the present plan. The same can
probably be said of this year’s set of rushees,

Everywhere there is talk of a change even at a
The

faculty’ committee on Fraternities has promised to

time when rushing is usually gladly forgotten.

study the situation toward the-end of finding a more

satisfactory system. Gértainly, a change must be
"A

made.

121 scholarships have been granted by the New Jersey
College for Women (New Brunswick) to students for this
school year.

A laboratory to assist children with defective speech has
been planned at the University of Wichita (Kansas).

Canning most of their food during the summer time
enabled a group of co-eds at Alabama Polytechnic Insti-
tute (Auburn) to save approximately $167 each on their

school expenses.

“SELECTED PAPERS
of @ :
PHINEAS SPOON.”

. Foreword .

Not for fear or diffidence does the
present author lurk behind the blessed
skirts of anonymity. He has assumed an
alias for reasons more acceptable.

Everybody has a suppressed desire. I
say “everybody” guardedly, because, like
all generalizations this probably requires
There may well be certain
For instance take the case
of Addled Adolf, head-lad of all the
Germanies. Is der Feuhrer hedged about
by the restrictions that common “flesh is
heir to”? It would seem to this casual
observer that anyone who “putsches”
whenever he wants to “putsche’, and
“purges” when the whimsy moves him
has somehow conscripted the license usu-
ally ascribed to omnipotence. Yet, not-
withstanding his very valid claim to a
bonny moustache and the soldier suit he
so loves to romp in, as well as numerous
other items dear to the hearts of young
men and small boys, there must be some-
thing else even der Maestro wants aid
just can’t have. In fact I should wager
a pfenning that Adolf Absolute yearns
to be an Austrian paper-hanger once
again, ‘This I should count to be a very
definite suppressed desire. What is more,
at this stage of the game, it is probably
a Chinese paper-hanger he would rather
be. For while folks in general have very
little use for paper-hangers, certainly
paper-hangers have no use for vests of a
bullet-proof nature.

qualification.
exceptions.

Our premise is more tenable than a
superficial inquiry might reveal. Lots of
people would like to be other people. For
my part, always I have wanted to be
Phineas Spoon, One inhibition or an-
other has throttled this ambition.

Although a character of heroic pro-
portions, Phineas is, in point of fact, as
mythical as the Saint Nickolas of Yule-
tide vernacular, Like Santa Claus, his
virtue lies not in his being flesh and
blood, but in the totality with which he
personifies and symbolizes a living spirit.
Phineas Spoon is an institution. He is
the prototype, the herald if you will, of
a new age—the Renaissance of Scepti-
cism, ‘This quality of questioning to
which [ allude is solely pertinent to tem-
porary considerations, Phineas is a secu-
lar agnostic.

As [see him in my mind's eye, Phineas
Spoon is an engaging figure—a gentle-
man of indeterminate age. A nurtured
white beard swoops out from under his
chin, ‘The ‘silver-silker’ texture of this
patriarchal appendage © eloquently at-
tests the fact that Phineas has lived long.
The fastidious which tailored
aspect evinces, indicates that Phineas has
lived not only long, but carefully as well.

He is, moreover, a student of the Hu-
manities. His life has been spent in
pursuit of all knowledge akin and apro-
pos to the art of Living. But, he is not
an ordinary scholar. He is, aS I have
intimated, a gentleman of heroic propor-
tions. His is an uncanny faculty for dis-
cerning betwixt the real and the unreal
in the cavaleade of life. This uncommon
sagacity has moved him to rebel against
the tenets of Twentieth Century gospel.
From his armchair, surrounded by books,
Phineas Spoon looks out on life; ques-

care its

tioning, doubting, challenging the values
to which we lesser souls pay lackey hom-
age.

When Phineas
sees men devoting all their energies to
the elaborating and piling up of things,
to the making of the possession of things
a necessity to their lives. He sees a-so-
ciety of short-sighted creatures who have
hrought about a situation where the ob-
taining of money in quantities wholly un-
necessary for the ordering of a sane life
has become the overwhelming preoccupa-
tion of their minds. The obsession of
“progress”, the love of- luxury, the uni-
formity and sterility of mass thinking
are some.of the factors which have
combined to make men believe that the
Twentieth Century provides a more
abundant life. If reality they are los-
ing that life in a more complete devoting
of themselves to the mere machinery of
living.

considers society~ he

This picture is anathema to the immac-
ulate incredulity of the literary world's
newest phenomenon—Phineas Spoon, Se-
lected papers of his authorship are to
follow in this column,

Rhodes Scholarships

(Continued from Page 1)

thoritative book on Oxford written for
\imerican students.
Davidson's first Rhodes Scholar, Dr.

B. R. Lacy, was elected by acclamation
moderator of the North Carolina Synod,
which convened in Davidson early in
September. Our sixth Rhodes Scholar,
Dean Rusk, a “half-blue” in lacrosse,
graduated with honors from Oxford qur-
ing thé summer and has accepted a posi-
tion as associate professor at Mills Col-
lege, Oakland, California.

“The Rockefeller Foundation has re-

cently granted McGill University (Tor- |

onto) a gift of $1,000,000 for the founda-
tion of a department of neurology.

By Scorty McLrop

BROTHERS-TO-BE

The nine national social clubs on the
Hill issued bids to. 117. students last
week; 110 were freshmen, and this num-
her represents more than half of the
class of °38. That makes just 117 sore
hands on the court since Wednesday
night when the upperclassmen toured the
frat huts and wehemently felicitated the
new brothers in the various lodges. If
you want to know anything else about
this stuff you can find it elsewhere in this
issue of this sheet. Some sheet, eh boys?

ANENT MUSIC

PiMle Davison and his Campus Wild-
cats will play an engagement extraordi-
nary at some place or other some time in
the quite more than distant future, The
orchestra is a composite one, being made
up of the following extractions from na-
tionally known bands: saxophones, from
Guy Lombardo’s band; trumpets, Hal
Kemp; clarinets, Wayne King; trom-
hones, Clyde McCoy; drums and novel-
Fred Waring; arrangements by
Ellington; piano, Eddie Duchin;
violin, Rubinoff; guitar, Jan Garber;
flutes, Paul Whiteman. If this inimitable
music-making aggregation does not  re-
ceive the disapprobation of the powerful
and effective Carlota Musician's Union,
we hope to have it present for a school
hop sumtime,

DON’T READ THIS

According to Dr. Ilood's method of
reasoning, everybody in should
read this, so you might as well go ahead
if you have reached this point: If the
hand gets any bigger, so says Doe New-
ton, the coaches will have to tie weights
on some of the pony backs to keep them
from being blown off the field... An-
‘other of Doc's humorisms runs like this:
I think the new smaller football is a
great improvement; Midget Verble can
almost reach around the pigskin now...
We suppose the Wildcat mentors are
well-suited with the outcome of the Elon
tilt; they stated before the game that any
victory at all would suitable with
them... Wimpy Ravenel declares that
cross-country runners are the world’s
dumbest men; they. run their legs off
and when they ‘come checking by the
finish line there is not a soul within five

ties,
Duke

school

he

miles to greet them or congratulate the
winner. And the winner doesn't get to
Hello, mama” into a waiting micro-
phone... The rage for sack-cloth is be-
ing made evident everywhere these days;
even Esquire has gone haywire on Har-
ris which, it seems to

sacks.

SH Vea

tweeds, us, are

really on burlap We hope this
campus won't go into mourning with
sack-cloth, Now I ask you? ... Ina
way, these new locks and keys we have
for the dormitory rooms are a great con-
many thanks to‘ Mr. Jackson
and the college authorities for supplying
them this year. But when a guy like
‘Tom Downie hides his room key and has
to tear down half of Watts trying to find
it, it is time somebody should give him a
string soe could wear it tied around
his neck, Casings should come off those
doors easier anyway .. . It is: too bad
the way Pete Neill can't get rid of all
that YMCA money; won't somebody
please take it before we get reckless ?

DE-BUT OF RALEIGH

Ye olde Rumple, Watts, Georgia, West,
Kast, North and South will be well rep-
resented at the annual De-Butante Ball
in Raleigh this week-end. With George
Norfleet King of the West, and Ollio
Duff King of the East (he rooms in
Watts) it looks like a rexy affair, Other
locals to attend include Tommy ‘Thomp-
Walter Sprunt, Billy Mickley, Reg-
gie Harris, and Bud Okey.

venience ;

son,

OUR
ontemporarites

Virginia Polytechnic Institute

At V. P. IL. this year, more or less
drastic amendments have been made in
their, “Rat System’. Included in these
is one that’ would never fit in at David-
son—that all Freshmen are not required
to run errands of any sort. The only
thing that 1 can find that is sine qua non
is that the system does not make it essen-
tial for a Freshman to take a course in
“What To Forget About High School”.

“Growleyology” is fast
popular extra-curricula course at the In-
stitute. This science (if you would
classify it as such) is only for students
who have abnormal appetites for partic-
ular foods or drinks (soft). The class
meets at a student store and there the
gorging takes place. It doesn't adjourn
until the students that are reciting have
filled their “innermost revesses”, Our
own “Stud Store” could easily endorse
and urge a course of this type here.

becoming a

Hampden-Sydney

“The Tiger” staff has gone Co-ed, She
is known on the campus for her inquisi-
tive nature and her snoopy qualities. So
far she has been most valuable in un-
earthing scoops that the males could nev-
er get.

In C. S. Jones’ column “As T Like Tt,”
he reviews several leading periodicals in
a clever manner, He passed comment on
(hevarticle by a certain Mr. Hoover that
appeared in a recent edition of the Satur-
day Evening Post as being illogical, con-
taining petty indictments, ete. (The. name
Hloover sounds vaguely familiar).
Clemson College

Four hundred freshmen were fooled in
the time-worn ice cream gag at Clemson
the other day when a notice was read
just after the finish of the noon-day meal
that the machinery in the dairy was
broken and that free ice cream would be
given gway. The new men rushed down
with pitchers and other large implements
to the creamery like a “wolf on the fold”.
After some time of waiting they finally
learned that the affair was a farce. Mach
year this act is repeated and the “Rats”
never cease to bite.

A co-editor is quoted as having said
“that the people of Louisiana know that
Napoleon sold it, but they didn't» know
that Long bought it’, (Sad but
true.)

Huey

“PARAGRAPHICS

_ Our eighty piece band which is, by the
way, the second largest college band in
the state, performed splendidly at the
game last Saturday. We believe this
organization is going to make a name for
itself, and it undoubtedly will be a big
asset at athletic contests.

The Charlotte Observer and — the
Greensboro News rate Davidson to fin-
ish at the bottomein the Big Five race.
We have never believed anything like
this and after the game with Elon last
Saturday we feel confident that the pre-
dictions will be far from correct in the
final outcome. *

CAMPUS EUPHEMISMS

‘Tom Wood has a favorite song these

days called “Phe Tceman’s Song,” » or
Pardon My Sudden Exit; and all we can

hear over at the barracks is Sam Ber-
nardo singing the two new Tarzan songs:
Tarsan ole Spinning Wheel in the Par-
and Good-night, a Tarsan Good-
nights. Journeying over to Georgia dor-
mitory, the unique musical emanation,
The Gorilla song, is that old ditty Gorilla
T love you. That old plan-
tation lament, the One-Eyed Calf Song
is frequently heard on the campus these
days: You're the. One-eyed Calf For.
And so the campus singsong.

FEETBALL STUFF

This week-end we hope to see what
Coach Hunk Anderson has been able to
bring out of the big Melting Pot at
State. The band will be there with bells
on, and it ought to be a great contest.
We will miss Hunter McClung, reserve
guard, who broke a leg bone in the: Elon
Glad to hear Dick Parker is
End prospects look some-
what brighter now.

lor

my dreams,

game.
hack in school.

STATIONERY CALLING

PRINTI

1143 E, FOURTH ST.

le

Fine Printing

QUEEN CITY

Printers of THE DAVIDSONIAN,
the DAVIDSON COLLEGE ALUMNI JOURNAL

CARDS PROGRAMS

NG CO

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

and of

