THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 18, 1934

—

The BDabidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

Member of

ciated Golleginte

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: the Col-

legiate year.

Ten cents per copy; $2.00

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Sera} pea!
North Carolina, under the act of March 3

Articles for publication must be in the hands of LA SELE | Editors
by 4:00 o'clock m., Monday. Letters to the itor are
1 all s intended for publication

but
must be signed.

RENNETH==Dj: WRERSsicsuascccssscgscgcqsccdiccsesqucavasess Editor
WIL LIAM Ty J OH NSONiasicsicccessecaesscuenshe Business Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
MARTIN BROWNE PST CY eg P Pee Ry ee EA CTP APNE OS | Managing Editor
LAMONT BRO .-Sports Editor
HARVEY GI es --Sports Editor
PAUL HARI anaging Editor
TOM anaging Editor

anaging Editor
-Associate Editor
-Associate Editor
-Associate Editor
Bibdcccscdstssanceceseboscudsccpam Associate Editor

‘McPHAIL.
ROSE.
JACK’ HELLINGE

BUSINESS STAFF
g L. GREEN...--.-. A M
L. SPRUNT. M
Ir TAYLOR... A M
: A. C. WADSWORTH A Manager

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 18, 1934

The way to learn to use good words is to read
some good literature often and carefully, intensively,
not extensively. —Bertrand Russell.

ASSUMING OUR
NEW DUTIES

Beginning with this issue, the new staff
takes charge of the “Davidsonian.” In doing
so we feel a lack of confidence in oursélves
without the guidance of the retiring staff to
maintain the high degree of success which the
editor and his co-workers have shown in edit-
ing the paper during the past year. However,
mindful of this fact, we do set out with honest
and diligent endeavor in assuming our new du-
ties which the student body has entrusted to
us.

I, the new editor, feel that in name only can
I succeed Odi Casali, the retiring editor, and
cannot amply replace him in the efficient ca-
pacity which he has served this year. As the
paper changes editors from year to year,
changes are made which may be.considered as
improvements or which may be considered the
reverse of this. The most notable change that
the retiring editor made was the addition of a
sixth column which was a decided improve-

ment as it makes our news organ look more —

like a real newspaper and provides for an ad-
ditional amount of news. The student body is
fully aware of the fact that he has done much
in making our “Davidsonian” a bigger and bet-
ter-paper.

Tt would be difficult to state here a policy
to be followed throughout 1934 and 1935. The
paper carries with it year in and year out more
or less the same policy due to the fact that
certain limitations are placed upon it. Any
decided change, therefore, is difficult to show
regardless of the desires of the editor. We
will strive, as far as possible within our bounds,
to improve-the paper where the opportunity
presents itself, to record news that is inter-
esting and correct, and to keep the paper in
close touch with every Davidson College stu-
dent.

There will be five more issues of the “Da-
vidsonian” this school year. In these five is-
sues there will be considerable changes which
will serve as an experiment in helping the new
staff to make certain choices and in determin-
ing the best plan to follow.

The editorial page will be a place where stu-
dent opinions and criticisms may find expres-
sion. Every student is reminded of the fact
that he has free access to this page provided
the editorial is deemed advisable to print.
Editorials will not be printed just for the sake
of filling space, but only when the subject is
justifiable and appropriate. Nor will any edi-
torial be printed which will tend to antagonize
or cause hard feelings.

SEVERAL CHANGES
APPEAR IN THIS ISSUE

In this the initial issue of 'the “Davidsonian”
by the new staff appear several changes in the
make-up in the way of news features. In the
past there have appeared on this page several
feature columns including “HERE AND
THERE,” “NEWS DIGEST” and the exchange
column, f

- For one of these will be substituted a new
feature beginning this issue. This new fea-
ture will be devoted to information concern-
ing radio artists and programs. Now that ra-
dios have become legalized here and so many”
students have radios in their rooms, it was

thought that this.column would be interesting
and helpful to those that listen in. Another
feature will probably be added. However, none
of these new changes may be considered as
permanent.

For the next four issues several changes:
will be made and different features tried out
in order to select those which best meet with
the approval of the readers. Students are
urged to make known their approval or dis-
approval of these new features.

CONCERNING DAVIDSON’S
RELIGIOUS INDIFFERENCE

The Y. M. C. A. installation service held in
Chambers Auditorium last Sunday night at the
usual vesper hour was most impressive. Any-
one who attended this service could not have
helped -being impressed and inspired by the

_solemnity and sincereness of it.

Walter Sprunt, the newly elected president
of the organization, in accepting the final chal-
lenge of the retiring president, made a state-
ment in the course of his talk which only a
small percentage of Davidson students real-
ize. He said that the student body and the
Y. M. C. A. were one, that the Y. M. C. A. was
the student body and that the student body
was the Y. M.C. A. Most of us get very little
out of this organization, that is, little that we
are conscious of, because we put so little into
it.

Another statement which applies to the Da-
vidson student body in general and which is
one of the biggest obstacles in the..work of
the Y. M. C. A. was made by Rufus Morrow
when he said that the most prevalent sin on
the Davidson campus was that of “religious
indifference.”

An article published in a recent issue of the
College, Humor deals with a condition present
at another college which is very similar to the
“religious indifference” prevalent here at Da-
vidson. The article in part reads:

“The two million dollar chapel recently built
at Princeton:-has-net only failed to gain a real
grip on the students but is steadily losing even
what little respect its great dignity and beauty
did inspire at the start,” says William Poole,
Princeton ’31 and the son of Ernest Poole.
“Some call it the Two Million Dollar Protest
Against Materialism; more commonly it is
known as ‘Moby Dick.’ A whale of a building
—only that. Why hasn’t the money bought
what it paid for?

“Students hoped that in this new chapel the
same freedom would be accorded to us as is
granted to undergraduates abroad and in a féw
colleges in this country—freedom to decide for
ourselves whether or not we should go to
church, The authorities, however, refused and
held to compulsory chapel on Sunday. Long
‘ago they had given up compulsory week day
chapel. Compared to what our fathers had in
the rigid old Presbyterian days, it was dis-
tinctly ‘light wines and beer.’ But even this
mild dose was too much... . Lectures on re-
ligious subjects replaced regular chapel serv-
ice, but little interest was stirred. Yawning
crowds of young fellows, back from gay week-
ends in New York and Philadelphia on Sun-
day nights, are hardly an inspiring audience
to a preacher.

“One reason for this listless attitude is. the
fact that in many cases parents /and- families
have been as indifferent as the sons. Not that
we are complaining of this lack of religious
training. In such matters, we believe, we
should be left to think for ourselves. But when
we made the effort, we found so much think-
ing to be done that we got lost in the woods
and came to.no deep convictions or faith. At
Princeton, also, it is distinctly bad form to
show enthusiasm or serious interest in any-
thing whatsoever. So how could we dare get
excited about this subject of religion, even if
we cared to?.

“Possibly,” 6 Poole concludes; “the de-
pression may work out a change in the atti-
tude of the undergrad ten years from now. He
will be brought up to think and to feel in ways
unknown to us. If- he does, he may bring to
college a new and larger attitude which will
not be ashamed of enthusiasms. Will any
chapel be able to hold it all? Or will the new
religion be larger than any house of God?”

Eleven zcollege men were asked to give
briefly their thoughts on religion, and the re-
sults, printed under their photographs, afford
an interesting’ symposium of the prevailing
attitude of the younger generation toward the
church.

Here and There

A survey made by New York University has
revealed “bull sessions” to be detrimental to
scholarship.

From 10 to 12 Purdue’ University graduates
are securing employment each-week through the
activities of that institution’s personnel bureau.

Radio Log

Ponselle, Martini, Stueckgold:

Rosa Ponselle, world-famous  so-
prano; Nino Martini, noted radio tenor,
and Grete Stueckgold, popular concert
singer, sing the best-loved American
songs of yesterday and today in a new
series of broadcasts over the Columbia
network. A 40-piece orchestra and a
chorus of 16 voices, directed by the
nationally - known CBS_ conductor,
Andre Kostelanetz, accompany the vo-
calists and present unusual arrange-
ments of modern dance tunes and bal-
lads.

These excellent programs are pre-
sented under the auspices of Liggett
& Myers Tobacco Company, in behalf
of Chesterfield Cigarettes, and are
broadcast from 9:00 to 9:30 p. m., EST,
every Monday, Wednesday and Satur-
day. In this series, both Miss Ponselle
and Grete Stuekgold are taking part
in a regular radio series for the ‘first
time.

Downey:

Morton Downey has returned to the
air recently to begin on the NBC net-
work a twice-weekly schedule. He
sings each Tuesday at 6:45 p. m., in his
own fifteen-minute recital, and again
on Saturdays on the “Saturday Re-
vue” at 8:00 p. m., as star soloist and
master of ceremonies.
Cantor-Durante: f

This past Sunday night broadcast
was the last radio appearance for Ed-
die Cantor until he returns next fall
to resume his Chase and Sanborn
broadcasts, October 7th. During his
absence, Jimmy “Schnozzle” Durante
will appear on this program at 8:00
p. m., NBC.

Debating:

A debating team representing three
Eastern universities, Columbia, Prince-
ton and Yale, will contest with de-
baters from three Western institutions,
Washington University, Stanford, and
University of Southern California on
the subject, “ Resolved, That the States
Ratify the Pending Child Labor
Amendment.” The former group will
broadcast from New York, and the lat-
ter from Los Angeles. NBC, 4:00 p. m.
Saturday.

Al Jolson:

While Al Jolson is vacationing, Ni-
kita Balieff, creator of “Chauve
Souris,” the Russian revue, which has
toured America three times, will ioin
Paul Whiteman’s radio show on April
26th.

Alexander Woollcott:

The Town Crier, Alexander Wooll-
cott, is being replaced by James Thur-
ber, of New Yorker fame, on Thurs-
day at 10:45, and by Roy Helton, Sat-
urdays, 9:30.

Benny:

Jack Benny, Mary Livingstone (his
wife), and the remainder of the old
Chevrolet. troupe, are now appearing
on the General Tire program, Friday
nights at 10:30, NBC.

GUY LOMBARDO and His-Reyat-}~

Canadians have left the Cocoanut
Grove in Ls Angeles, where they have
been playing, and doing cinema work
in Hollywood, and are now on a per-
sonal appearance tour.

GLADYS SWARTHOUT and John
Barclay may be heard over the NBC
network Tuesday at 10:00 p. m., in
famous operettas, on the Palmolive
Beauty Box Theatre program. Recent
presentations have been “The Desert
Song,” “The Vagabond King,” and
“The Rogue Song.”

FRED WARING and His Pennsyl-
vanians present a talented guest artist
on their program each Sunday night,
CBS, at 8:30. Recent soloists have
been Marion Talley, George Gershwin
and Ezio Pinza.

HARRIET HILLIARD, who is sing-
er with Ozzie Nelson’s Band on the
Joe Penner Baker broadcasts, has been
signed for fifteen more*months.

HAL KEMP and His ‘International
Favorites have been replaced at the
Black Hawk Restaurant in Chicago by
Seymour Simon and his band. Hal is
on tour.

JOHN DREW COLT, son of Ethel
Barrymore, has been added to the cast
of Five Star Final.

DON BESTOR and JACK BENNY
are on the same program again, after
appearing on the same bill for ten
weeks with the old Orpheum vaude-
ville circuit in 1927.

BERNIE CUMMINGS is now pre-
siding over the beautiful Trianon Ball-
room in Chicago, in the absence of
Jan Garber.

TED FIORITO is composer of many
song hits, two of which are “Laugh,
Clown, Laugh,”\ and “Three On A
Match.”

VIVIAN JANIS sings with Leon
Belasco’s orchestra over the CBS from
the San Moritz in. the early evening,
and then appears in the current Zieg-
feld Follies.

BILLY HILL’S compositions have
proved to be very famous: “Old Spin-
ning Wheel,” “Last Roundup,” “Wag-
on Wheels,” and “Have You Ever
Been Lonely.” The last hit was writ-
ten under the nom de. plume of George
Brown.

Dick Cathey Elected _
To Sophomore Office

In the Freshman elections held last
Thursday and Friday, Dick Cathey was
elected vice-president of the rising
Sophomore class for the coming year
As this went to press, three men, J. D.
Allen, R. H, Sadler, and J. W.
son, survived the list of the six men
that were voted on Saturday for the
position of secretary and treasurer of
the class.

In the nominations held Thursday for
vice-president, the following men were
nominated: Dick Cathey, Maurice Pea-
body, Dermot Shemwell, R. B. Stew-
art, J. T. Morton, and W. A. Stuckey.

The final ballot on Friday contained
the names of Cathey, Morton and
Stewart.

The eight men that were nominated
Friday and voted on Saturday for sec-
retary and treasurer were: J. D. Allen,
W. A. Broadway, Stewart Barnes, J.
A. Dickson, J. W. Dickson, J. W. Gaw,
Ralph McClelland and R. H. Sadler.

The Broadcaster

Introducing a new feature, Title:
The Broadcaster. Writer: No, Pur-
pose: To put Davidson students on the
spot. Duration: As long as the editor
lets me continue. Note: The David-
sonian does not necessarily accept all
the views and comments held by the
writer of this column.

Gentlemen, it is indeed difficult to
begin a new feature. But what differ-
ence does it make? Maybe no one
will read it anyway. But I do want
to say that it has been my ambition
for some time to write a column of
my own. Now my big moment has
come; the editor has willingly con-
sented to give me a chance; my first
writing is about to appear, and now
I don’t know a darn thing to write
about. Such is life. When your’ big
opportunity arises, you don’t khow ex-
actly what to do about it.

What you need in a feature making
its debut is something to attract at-
tention. Perhaps I should say some-
thing like this: It’s stupendous! It’s
gigantic! It’s colossal! In fact, it’s
not fit to read! But that’s not so hot.
I can’t even be funny.

Let me say in the beginning that
this is not my column, Yes, I'll take
the blame for it, but this is YOUR
column, Here’s your chance to pub-
lish your views. Here’s your oppor-
tunity to get your name in the paper,
or your name will be withheld at your
request. Now you can get back on the
other fellow by writing any scandal
you want. Just gamble a post card
and send it to The Broadcaster, in care
of the editor of the Davidsonian, and
if he doesn’t tear’it up, I'll get it. And
if you want this column to discontinue,
just write me something and I’ll prob-
ably kick the bucket.

Now, ‘dear readers, if you have gone
this far, do you want to know what is
wrong with this campus? There are
two things which prevail around here
that have grown monotonous. They
are two S's. The first is a “shine” and
the second is a “smooch.” Do you get
what I mean?

A Davidson student cannot go
through a day without hearing some-
thing about these two things. He can-
not be original or do something out of
the ordinary without being called a
“shine.” A fellow cannot be humor-
ous or witty without “shining.” If he
displays a fancy dance step; if he
makes a witty announcement in chapel
to attract attention to the announce-
ment; if he does anything different
from a reserved and. dignified college
student, he is called a “shine.” Well,
after all, he may in reality be “shin-
ing,” but I still Hold that this phrase
prevalent on the campus is run into the

round, xe

The othér phrase is probably more
overdone than the first, and that is
termed “smooching.” This, as you
know, is associates mostly with the
student and the professor. You re-
member that when you came to Da-
vidson, you were urged to-go-to-visit
the professors as often as possible. If
you ask some graduates of Davidson
about what they thought was one of
the best things at Davidson, more than.
likely they will say that it was the
feeling of congeniality between the
student and the professor. Now if you
even walk across the campus with a
professor, you are “smooching.” This
attitude should not be taken, and the
student and professor should be able
to converse together without the other
students standing aside and accusing
the student of picking for a higher
grade.

What can be done about these two
irregularities? Absolutely nothing.
What is once started at Davidson be-
comes a tradition, and it takes more
than editorials, talks, and insignificant
column writers to change the tradi-
tion.

Well, so long until next week—that
is, if the editor lets me continue.

Dick-"

On Other Campuses

The Keydets at V. M. I. have taken
drastic steps to modify their existing
“Rat System” for first-year men. Haz-
ing at the institute has in the past
been fashionable, to say the least—
severe, The immediate cause for this
sudden elimination of this ancient cus-
tom was to prevent the dismissal of
two first classmen who were connected
in a case of hazing last week. The
First and Second classes signed a
pledge “to refrain from any unauthor-
ized physical punishment, and to pre-
vent any physical hazing whatever.”
(The old order changeth, and in this
“new deal” the rats are holding the
cards.)

“To Arms! To Arms!” was the cry
oi the freshmen at N. C. State when
the vice-president of the Sophomore
class issued a challenge to a battle of
some kind. Boys will be boys! Com-
mittees from both classes have been
appointed to make further plans for
the occasion.

The R. O. T. C. Department at Pres-
byterian College is quoted as “being
pleased to note the tremendous im-
provement in the health of members
of the cadet corps”—the catch was that
all absences had to be made up at a
special drill on each Monday after-
noon,

According to “The Ring-Tum Phi,”
Jan Garber, the Idol of the Airwaves,
has been signed to play for the
“Finals” again at Washington and Lee
University.

For the last several issues of the
school paper at W. & L., there has
appeared a column correctly called, ac-
cording. to an editorial in the same
paper, “The Unread Law.” This ar-
ticle has attempted to bring to the
students at the university the faulty
and inconsistent Constitution and By-
Laws of the student body, and it was
very critical. One would immediately
think that the entire student group
would have risen in arms at even the
slight intimation of such a thing, but
the article did not get even a rise!

D. C. DEBATERS LOSE
TWICE IN PAST WEEK

(Continued from page 1)
President every time who would be
capable of handling increased power.
Both men made a vigorous attack on
the indefiteness of the proposals of
the affirmative side, declaring that the
burden of proof lay with that side and
they were not putting forth any defi-
nite plans of increasing the President’s
power. ¢

The order of speaking was Stutts
of Davidson, Terry of Florida, Smith
of Davidson, and Wurm of Florida.

The judges were Professors Gwynn,
Erwin and Schenck.

At the close of the debate the
judges, voting by secret ballot, ren-
dered a decision in favor of the Flor-
ida team.

In the Saturday night debate, J. H.
Fitzgerald and E. J. Humphrey, rep-
resenting Davidson, upheld the affir-
mative side, while Jack Murchison and
Donald G, Myers, representing Wake
Forest, ably presented the negative
side of the query.

The order of speaking was Fitzger-
ald of Davidson, Murchison of Wake
Forest, Humphrey of Davidson, and
Myers of Wake Forest.

Judges for the debate were Rev. R.
A. White, W. C. Thompson, and Rey.
Mr. Myers.

Owing to a musical concert sched-
uled for the same hour, the debates
were held in Professor Currie’s class-
room instead of in the Chambers Au-
ditorium,

Fitzgerald, in opening the debate,
pointed to" examples from history in
which the President had needed more
power immediately. Humphrey came
to his colleague’s aid in declaring that
the changes proposed by the affirma-,
tive were not radical or drastic, and
that they did not lead to any new form
of government. The affirmative in its
constructive criticism advocated the
following measures: Presidential con-
trol of the credit structure, control of
the tariff, power to veto items in an
appropriation bill, and power over the
public purse.

In its turn, the negative, led by
Murchison, contended that the Presi-
dent already has’ sufficient power in
his hands and pointed out the evils
of-one-man governments in other parts
of the world. Attention was also called
to the fact that in this time of emer-
gency the powers of the President
were not proved as valuable as settled
policies,

In the rebuttals, each side aimed
powerful and well-directed attacks at
the arguments of their opponents in a
final effort to prove their arguments.

The judges, after some deliberation,
rendered a decision in favor of the
visiting team from Wake Forest.
