THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 14, 1934

The Davidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

Member of

Associated ; Gollegiute Press

“319393 (nanonar covenact) 1944 =

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate year,

"entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of Managing Editors
by 4:00 o'clock p. m., Monday. Letters to the Editor are

welcome, but all communications intended for publication
must be signed.
ODI CASAL isso sos sacs cscs cccces ccc suyssbesssccuases, oseceness Editor
W. T. JOHNSON B Manager

G. L. {anaging Editor
E. F. fanaging Editor
B. L. anaging Editor
K. D. anaging Editor
JAC .-Alumni Editor

i RA y --Editorial Writer
s.

Ss.

Cc.

D.

L.

W. Associate Editor
JAC. -Associate Editor

STAFF

G. .--Assistant Business Manager
Ww. -Assistant Business Manager
ERI YLOR. Assistant Business Manager
}: A. C. WADSWORTH... ...-£-..-Assistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1934

You better live your best and act your best and
think your best today; for today is the sure prep-
aration for tomorrow and all the other tomorrows
that follow. —Harriet Matineau.

A NEW ELECTIVE SYSTEM

Last-spring just after student body elections
were held an amendment affecting the voting
of students was passed and inserted in the Da-
vidson Constitution. The amendment which in
part reads that “freshmen become members of
the Student Body with full rights to vote imme-
diately upon the installation of the president of
their rising Sophomore class.’ was designed to
rob members of the Freshman class of a right
to vote in the general student body elections.
Those who proposed the amendment felt that
the first-year men, although they seldom knew
the candidates for the student offices and were
‘asily influenced by upperclassmen in the voting,
practically controlled the student body elections
and oftentimes robbed a worthy candidate of an
honor.

’

“The Davidsonian’” condemned the proposal
when it was placed before the vote of the stu-
dent body, and showed the harm the amendment
did in the Junior cheerleader elections’ last fall.

We mention this again because it appears that
Davidson leaders took steps iakconeyite those
most schools are taking in making their student
body. elections more efficient and more just. It
is interesting to note that at Temple University
a novel student government system, compelling
all students except Seniors to vote in student
clections, goes into effect this week. Temple per-

mits no sttident to complete his registration for
the second semester until he casts his ballot.

The new Temple system has many other fea-
tures, desgined to kill politics in college elec-
tions. The famous Pennsylvania school carefully
studied government systems of other colleges
and borrowed ideal features to include in their
new clective plan.

Davidson student body elections will soon be
here. We consider the elective system here a
poor one, and for that reason do not hesitate
in asking the Student Council to investigate im-
proved voting systems of other colleges so that
Davidson elections this year might be conducted
in a manner better than in past years.

EVIDENT INFLUENCE

Once more the influence of Captain Norton G.
Pritchett, director of athletics here, has-brought
results and placed Davidson a notch higher in
the sports world. Captain Pritchett’s influence
this time became evident when three Davidson
track, athletes made creditable showings in the
Sixth Annual West Virginia Indoor Track ‘and
Field Meet held last week at the university of
that state. ‘

Two of the three representatives had no track
experience whatever before Captain Pritchett
took them under hand. Miller Cochran, who
won first place in the shot-put event, and Ellis
Oakes, who ran in the mile event, received all
their track instruction from the Davidson ath-
letic director. Earle Frazier, who came in fourth
in the mile run, had experience before he came
to Davidson, but in a year and a half Captain
Pritchett has developed him into one of the lead-
ing long distance runners in the South if not
in the East. ‘

‘years,

SENIOR PRIVILEGES

Early last fall the Seniors met to decide upon
special privileges which they would petition the
college to grant them. Interest was then at a
high pitch and it appeared that there might be
some mark of distinction between the Senior
class and the other two upper classes. Whether
or not the petitién ever got to the Faculty Com-
mittee is not known, but if it gid no action has
ever been taken on the request, it appears.

For the Seniors, only three and a half months
of college life remain. Unless something about
the matter is dotie soon, the meeting held last
fall was for no purpose at all.

Why nothing has been done in the matter of
Senior privileges we do not know, but it is time
that those trusted with the responsibility, by the
class, should make some report.

WET SHOES

It rains frequently at Davidson. One attends
classes daily at this institution and church on
Sunday._It is customary for the students to in-
dulge in three meals a day. Now participation
in these events is necessary and the necessity is
not called off on account of rain. For four years
we have been “puddle-jumpers” while traversing
that swampy terrain in front of dormitory row;
for four years we have dared to wade across the
morass between the dormitories and Chambers
We have contributed muddy shoes, wet socks,
and creaseless trousers to the cause of non-paved
walks. We have been trusting, hopeful, and now
after the recent wet weather, we are despairing
and fed-up.

We understand that a recent attempt was
made to have the CWA or PWA construct ce-
ment walks, but the inevitable red-tape and tech-
nicalities that accompany all political plans re-
sulted in Davidson being termed a “private insti-
tution” and the money could not be appropriated.
And so “wetter and wetter walks” is still our
slogan. Of all the improvements that Davidson
needs, properly constructed hard-surfaced walks
in front of the dormitories ; from the dormitories
to Chambers; and down to Fraternity Court are
the most important and badly needed.

Inclement weather will continue, at least we
feel fairly safe in hazarding this assumption, If
things continue as they have for the last four
we can assure ourselves that whatever
improvements are made, hard-surfaced” paths
will not be among them. Colds, wet shoes and
socks, messy trousers—what of it? We ought
to be used to them by now! —R. P.-T.

Here and There

Students are busy forming a socialist club on
the campus of Louisiana State University. Its
purpose is to expound the virtues of ‘socialism
and develop leaders for the movement.

Knrollment at the University of Detroit shows
that 3,543 women and only 77 men attend the
school.

Freshmen at Butler University get a free hair-
cut if they fail to don a frosh cap.

\ party with an appropriate program has re-
placed hazing in the introduction of freshmen
to Connecticut State College at Storrs.

Gettysburg College in Pennsylvania, starting
its 102nd term this year, is without a co-ed on
the campus for the first time in 45 years.

A student at New Orleans University received
a medal from the Italian government for rescu-
ing a Turk from drowning there two years ago.

A complete course in aviation has been insti-
tuted at the University.of Oklahoma City this
year.

Belts have been substituted for paddles in the
hazing of freshmen at the Colorado School of
Mines.

About this time it is a consolation to know
that Lindbergh flunked out of the University of
Wisconsin; Dr. W. J. Mayo, of the Mayo. Clinic,
flunked out of the University of Michigan Med-
ical School; and Stewart Edward White and
Franklin P, Adams were likewise given their
walking papers from the S. L. A. College of the
same institution during their freshman years.

The president of the University of Southern
California says that a college freshman has only
about one-half the vocabulary of the common
laborer. “Swell,” he says, “is used to describe
4,972 situations.”

Princeton. freshmen admit they prefer Phi
Beta. Kappa keys to varsity letters.

Because college petters parked their cars be-
fore his home, a professor at New York Uni-
versity asked trustees of his suburban town not
to have snow removed from the roads so that
he could spend some peaceful evenings.

NEWS DIGEST

CUBAN CONSTITUTION

With a sweep of his pen President
Mendieta signed the new Cuban con-
stitution together with ‘the eleven
members of his cabinet. Former Pro-
visional. President Grau San Martin
had previously signed away the old
constitution which had been in use
since 1901. The new document con-
sists of ninety-nine articles and four-
teen provisional parts. It is to correct
so many of the current abuses and in
it is embodied most of the principles
of the Constitution of the United
States. The new magna charta is to
remain in force until the constitutional
assembly meets at the latter part of
the year.

THE OLD STORY

During the 1920 era there
tremendous amount of trading on the
stock market with everybody trying to
get rich. Then the crash came and
everybody was sorry that they had
used too little discretion in their trad-
ing. The general opinion was that we
would know better how to act in such
a case if the occasion ever again rose.
Last week the stock market took a
big jump and immediately was flooded
with orders with no discrimination as
to whether the stock was good or not.
Well, it seems as if we will never learn
anything. How can we expect to pre-
vent another depression if we don’t use
a little

was a

common sense,

REIGN OF TERROR

History repeats itself and France is
struck by%a new reign of terror in the
age of republics and dictators. Furious
mobs in revolt against the government
battled police and soldiers before the
Chamber of Deputies and the Ameri-
can Embassy and then paid the death
toll as the machine guns of the police
opened upon the mob, killing and in-
juring scores of the populace. The
fighting came as a result of the gov-
ernmental corruption which was dis-
closed when a huge pawnshop concern
collapsed and many prominent names
were found connected with it. The cab-
inet resigned but the French, a hot-
headed people, were not satisfied and
protested with guns and angry mobs.

BREMER

We call this civilization, but is it?
When a man must pay two hundred
thousand dollars to get a gang of
hoodlums to release his ‘son who has
been held prisoner for twenty-three
days and subjected to’ every torture,
is that civilization? When a fortune
representing years in the life of a man
is paid as a tribute to gangland to ob-
tain the life of a loved one, civilization
is a thing of the past or a thing of
the future. But that was what Adolf
Bremer had to do to save his son from
death. We say that the world is get-
ting better, but a thinking man’ will
question the veracity of this statement
when he hears of such things.

MORE CWA MONEY

After hours of spirited debate the
administration forces voted the CWA
nine hundred and fifty million in addi-
tional funds to be used throughout the
nation in the fight against the depres-
sion. This bill was passed in the Sen-
ate and will now go to the House for
another long discussion before the final
action is taken. The good results ac-
complished by the CWA _ heretofore
were cited and no trouble was had in
getting the bill through. An amend-
ment to the bill provided that all CWA
appointments must come from the
White House hereafter.

MORE GOVERNMENT. CONTROL

The government is gradually acquir-
ing more and more control over indus-
try and this time it is the air mail. As
you no doubt remember, army planes
first carried the air mail and this plan
has been renewed since President
Roosevelt voided all the carrier con-
tracts. Evidence of fraud and collu-
sion was given as the reason for this
action. The President ordered Post-
master Farley to end all contracts and
immedately issued an executive order
placing the army fliers at the disposi-
tion of the postoffice department.

MacCRACKEN

It was thé first time in history when
such a thing had occurred but William
MacCracken, former assistant secre-
tary of commerce and now aviation
attorney, steadfastly refused to meet
the Senate investigating committee
who were going over the Papers in
the aviation department. Certain Papers
relating to the air mail were missing
from the attorney’s office and Mac-
Cracken was called before the com.
mittee to explain their absence, but he
refused to come. The incident was
widely discussed in Washington, where
such conduct was unheard of before.

OTTS FOUNDATION TALKS
ARE BEING DELIVERED

(Continued trom page 1)

was given on Tuesday, and “The
Christian Way,” given today. The
schedule for the rest of the week will
include “The Christian Act,” Thurs-
day, February 15, and “The Christian
Destiny,” Friday, February 16. All lec-
tures begin promptly at 10:15 a. m.

In order that the students may hear
the lectures, the registrar has arranged
a schedule during the week so that
only one recitation period will be omit-
ted each day. On , Tuesday and
Wednesday, the periods from 10:40 to
11:35 were omitted, while on Thursday
and Friday the period beginning at
11:35 will be omitted, and the regular
10:40 class held then. These lectures,
while primarily intended for the stu-
dents, are open to the general public
also.

The Otts Foundation was estab-
lished in 1893, when Rev. J. M. P.
Otts, D.D., LL.D., endowed a founda-
tion at Davidson College, the income
of which is to be used in securing
distinguished speakers,-from time to
time, to deliver at the college courses
of lectures in defense of Christianity
against current heresies, especially such
as may seem directed at the founda-
tions of the Christian faith.

Since the first lecture in 1893, by Dr.
Otts himself, Dr. R. L. Dabney, Dr.
J. B. Shearer, Dr. W. W. Moore, and
Dr. Harris B. Kirk have spoken at
Davidson this foundation. These
lectures are published in book form,
and are supposed to take place at least
once every two years.

Dr. Macartney is a graduate of
Princeton University and of Princeton
Theological Seminary. From 1914 to
1917 he was pastor of the Arch Street
Presbyterian Church, Philadelphia,
Pa., and since that time, pastor of the
First Presbyterian Church of Pitts-
burgh, Pa, Besides being a distin-
guished clergyman, Dr. Macartney is
the author of a dozen books, the ma-
jority of which are upon questions of
religion and _ politics.

While in Davidson, he is the guest
of Dr. and Mrs. W. L. Lingle.

on

DR. GWYNN GIVES TALKS
_TO CHARLOTTE AUDIENCE

(Continued from page 1)

“The Christian home is successful in
marriage. Such a home is one where
God dwells. There is a reverence, an
awe, a sense of dependence on God
and the child learns to orientate his
life. In a Christian home there is a
trust and confidence which prevails

“The one who has a Christian home
has the most priceless heritage the
carth can yield. He is taught love,
but not an over-sentimentalized love,
understanding, sympathy, forgiveness,
and patience. Discipline also finds a
place in a Christian home. There is
a family discipline, and best of all the
family learns self-discipline.”

On Other Campuses

GEORGIA ‘TECH
A professor at Georgia Tech tested
one of. his classes to determine how
accurately a man’s character and oc-
cupation ‘may be judged by seeing his
picture. Lewis Laws, warden of Sing
Sing, was identified as a banker, states-
man, politician, doctor, factory work-
and aviator; Sinclair Lewis, au-

er,
thor, as accarpenter, murderer, ex-
plorer, radio announcer, insurance

agent and astronomer; Walter Lipp-
mann, editorial writer, as a lawyer,
gangster, plumber, governor, preacher,
and musician; H. L. Mencken, critic, as
a butcher, beer baron, mill. worker,
gambler, detective, traveling salesman,
and bootlegger.

MINNESOTA

Bring back the slot machines.

That is, if conditions at Davidson re-
sembled those at: Minnesota. Students
at the U. are offered seventeen meals
a week for a total of $2.50.

N. C. STATE

Golden Chain, senior honorary soci-
ety, and the Interfraternity Council,
composed of various representatives
from the social fraternities, have en-
dorsed the return of the freshman caps,
whigh were abolished from State Col-
lege in 1930. It is understood that
other societies will be approached in
reference to their attitudes on restoring
frosh hats.

WAKE FOREST

Plans for an elaborate centennial
program in appropriate celebration of
the one hundredth birthday of Wake
Forest College to be coincident with
the May graduating exercises are now
being .worked out by the centennial
committee of the college trustees.

One of the most interesting parts of
the tentative program is a pageant to
depict the growth of Wake Forest Col-
lege from a “manual and classical’
school to a full-fledged college of “big
five” standing. This pageant, in which
college students and local talent will
take part, is slated to be staged in the
open air on the athletic grounds Mon-
day, May 28, the opening event of the
program.

LOS ANGELES

One of the most drastic steps in the
history of public education was taken
recently when the Los Angeles board
of education ordered the abandonment
of 275 elementary school buildings
which had been condenmed as unsafe
after last year’s earthquake, and the
substitution of 2,000 tents to house the
303,000 pupils ‘put out of the school
buildings.

Dr. Gwynn gave two lectures to the
Sunday School and the Men’s Bible
Class, Several Presbyterian churches
dismissed their prayer meetings to at-
tend the lecture.

“WHEN A FELLER
NEEDS A FRIEND"

Placed on the market a year ago, this pipe
mixture made many friends before it had
a line of advertising. Aged in the wood for
years... BRIGGS is mellow, packed with
flavor, biteless! Won’t you try a tin and let
genial BRIGGS speak for itself?

KEPT FACTORY FRESH
by inner lining of
CELLOPHANE

© P. Lorillard Co., Inc,
