THE DAVIDSONIAN,

DECEMBER 5, 1934

Endowment Beneficiaries To

Drs. Lingle And McConnell Plan |
To Attend Observance In
Raleigh Tuesday

MR. PAGE WILL’ PRESIDE

Dr. W. L. Lingle and Dr. J. M. Mc-
Connell plan to be in Raleigh Tuesday,
December 11, to attend the public ob-
servance of the tenth aniversary of the
Duke Endowment, a celebration spon-
sored by the Raleigh Chamber of Com-
merce.

Representatives from each of the nu-
merous schools, hospitals, and orphanages
which are beneficiaries of this endow-
ment will assemble at the Sir ‘Walter
Raleigh Hotel for a series of commemo-
rative exercies and discussions.

Registration of guests will be com-
pleted by eleven o'clock that morning af-
ter which the guests will be conducted on
a tour of the beneficiary institutions and
places of interest. in the city. At twelve-
thirty, the visitors will be entertained at
a luncheon given through the courtesy of
the Raleigh Beneficiary Institutions at
the Methodist Orphanage,

That afternoon at two-thirty the hos-
pital representatives will convene as a
separate group for reports on and dis-
cussion of “Group Payment for Hospital
Care” and a roundtable discussion of va-
rious hospital problems.

The orphan home group will meet si-
multaneously to hear a series of ad-
dresses on different phases of child care
together with a brief devotional program
and a number of selections by’ the Ox-
ford Orphanage Chapel Choir.

Exercises for that evening will be held
in the Memorial Auditorium with Mr.
Frank Page presiding. The program fol-
lows:

7 :30—Prelude: State Chileans Orches-
tra, Major C. D. Kutchinsky, Di-
rector.

7:45—Invocation: Right Reverend W.
J. Haffey, Bishop Diocese of Raleigh.

7 :50—Address of Welcome: ‘The Hon-
orable J. C. B. Ehringhaus, Governor
of North Carolina.

8:00—Address: “A Ten-Year Review
of the Work of the Duke Endow-
ment’—Norman A, Cocke, Vice-
Chairman, Board of Trustees, The
Duke Endowment.

8 :30—Chorus: Shaw University Choir.

8 :25—Introduction of Doctor Lester:
Dr. Frank P. Graham, President,
University of North Carolina.

8:35—Address: “The Philanthropic En-
dowment in Modern Life”—Dr. Rob-

ert M. Lester, Secretary, Carnegie
Corporation.

9:05—Solo: Edwin Hill, Methodist Or-
phanage, Raleigh.

9:10—A Sound Motion Picture: “The
Trail of the Circuit Rider.”

“The Trail of the Circuit Rider” pre-

pared by Pathe News, Incorporated, un-
der the direction of the Trustees of the
Duke Endowment and its filming has al-
ready occasioned much editorial comment
throughout the Carolinas.

“As the title indicates, the picture is
based upon the influence of religious
teachings of two or three generations
ago in the development of orphanages,
hospitals, and schools.

The purpose of the picture is to give a

clearer insight into the character of the fs

work of these institutions, their great
value to society, and the limitations un-
der which they strive to meet the great
demands made upon them. The scenes of
present day conditions are authentic.”
Davidson College receives approxi-
mately five per cent of the the income of
the Duke Endowment, a source of reve-
nue roughly equivalent to a private en-
dowment of one million one hundred and
seventy-five thousand dollars.

C. K. Brown Reorganizes
Class For Discussions

Davidson’s Student Sunday School
Class has been reorganized under the
leadership of Dr. C. K. Brown. The
class meets every Sunday morning at
10:00 A.M. in the Eumenean Hall.  Dis-
cussion groups have been formed for the
study of social problema and the pro-
grant takes the form of an open forum
after Dr. Brown completes his lecture.

A great deal of interest has been
shown in this work by the.members of
the class and the attendance usually
numbers about thirty. Cameron Deans
and C. L. Harper are officers of the
group and they extend to the student
body a cordial welcome to attend the
class meetings.

BUFF SHOE SHOP
Modern Shoe
Rebuilder

‘When It Is Done By
Buff That Is

-Enough

Frat Competition

High In Volleyball

The Kappa Sig- Phi G Gam volley ball
game was called after two games on
Monday afternoon due to darkness and
rain. The Kappa Sigs won the first game
21-19, but the Phi Gams came back
strongly to take the second, 21-12.

The final game of this match was
played - Wednesday, along with the
Beta, SAE game, which was called off
because of a great number of men of

both teams were practicing for the
Watts-Georgia game.
The SPE, Phi Delt game was also

played, but the results of these eee
were not known when this paper wen
to press. In Monday's game, Pittman,
Lindsey, and Barrow were outstanding
for the Kappa Sigs while LeGare, Glass,
and Branton played stellar games for
the Phi Gams.

Two matches had previously been
played in this tournament, the SPES de-
feated the Pikas and the KAs downed
the Pi Kappa Phis about two weeks ago
in the opening games.

The interclass tournament will get un-
derway as soon as this tournament is
completed.

Eight Men Survive In
Ping-Pong Tournament

The annual Y.. M. C. A.

ping-pong

Gwynn Will Se
Celebrate 10th Anniversary Ve ia

As Committeeman

Faculty Is On Assembly Com-
mittee To Prepare For
1936 Jubilee

Dr. P. H. Gwynn, Jr. has recently re-
ceived and accepted an invitation to
serve upon a special committee of ar-
rangements, which has been set up by
the General Assembly, to begin prepara-
tion for the celebration of the Diamond
Jubilee Year, 1936.

The general assembly has designated
the year 1936, which makes the 75th year
of the existence of the Southern Presby-

terian Church, as “Diamond Jubilee
Year.”
The Assembly has authorized the set-

ting up of a special evangelistic,
zational,

organi-
and educational objectives, as
goals to be achieved by that time, tow-
ard which the whole Church shall work.

It is hoped that by the jubilee a special
program will be arranged which shall
properly set forth the glorious history
and achievement of the Church during
these 75 years of progress.

The Committee Arrangements
composed of four and eight
men who have been selected from mem-
bers over the General Assembly. This
committee will organize and direct the

of is

women,

program preparatory to, and through
Jubilee Year.

The Committee will have its first
meeting in the Henry Grady Hotel, At-
lanta, Georgia, December 4th, at 9:30
A.M.

A A

3]
|
|
|

Y.M.C.A.
News |

Y Y Y y'¢ Y Y Y|
No Y. M. C. A. deputations were sent |
out this week, although the Student Vol-
unteer Group sponsored a deputation to |
the Young People’s Meeting of the Sec- |
ond Presbyterian Church in Charlotte.
Watson Street made a talk, Warren Bab- |
cock played a cello solo with Kenneth |
Scott at the piano, and Jimmie Salango |
rendered a vocal solo, with Val Cassels |
accompanying at the piano. |

Commenting on a YMCA deputation |
sent out some weeks ago, “The Ashe
County Presbyterian” states: “Ashe
County was settled in the 1760's. David-
son College was organized in 1837. So
far as is known, never before this Fall
has an official delegation of the Davidson
College YMCA visited Ashe County.

On the first Sunday in November, Lan
sing, Gillespie, and Foster Memorial
Churches rejoiced in the presence of
Messrs. Don Brandon, Hubert Morris,
Don Bailey, Tommy Phifer, and Bob
Leonard. They conducted helpful serv-
ices in each church and we
forward to return.”

The  student-conduct
last Sunday met with such approval that
another such service is planned for the
month of February, the of which
is to be “Peace”. For the coming Sun-
day's service, the YMCA plans to have
Reverend RH. Rev
Stone will make ait appeal for the moun
tain mission fund.

The YMCA also plans to sponsor two

are looking

vespers service

topic

Stone as speaker

}used as a work shop and as scout troop

Campaign Started
To Erect Building

Site And Forty orty Dollars Have
Been Contributed By Members
Of The Community

The Boys’ Work Department of the
Y. M. C. A, Cabinet, under the leadership
of Ed Hodge and Ben Rose, is setting
out on a campaign to erect a two room
house in which the Boys’ Work may be
carried on more adequately.
be

This building of two rooms will

been no

work for

there has
location for either
nearly a year. Sam Nickey, a member
of the "34, organized for the
younger boys of Davidson a manual train-
ing shop of which the boys made much
use until its center, Old Louisiana,
torn down.

headquarters, since

available

class of

was

the
schoolhouse

About the time,

had to cease

same scout troop
using.the for
its meeting place, and since has had no
place at all. The work shop was used
for a month list year and during that
time it Was visited by from frinety to one
hundred and twenty boys each week.
Attempts are now being made to raise
the money with which to erect this com-
munity house for the boys. At the pres-
ent time, the site and forty dollars have
been contributed within the community
It is estimated that he building will cost
about $175. «Any. students or members
of the community who may be interested
asked

in helping with this project, are

Kd Hodge.

to see

‘Around TOWN

The Davidson Mugic Club met Tues-
day night at the Civic League Hall. The
subject for the evening was “Christmas
Folk Music.” A program of French,
German, - Norwegian, Bohemian, and
English Christmas carols was given.

Major and Mrs. John Rhett enter-
tained a party of young people Friday
evening for Miss Libby Rhett and her
guest, Miss Becky Gwathmey.

Miss Agnes Brown, who is a junior
at Salem College, spent the week-end
with her mother, Mrs, A. S.-Brown.

Mrs. W. W. Wood visited with rela-
tives in Hickory Wednesday.

Miss Letitia Currie visited with friends
at Salem College this week-end.

Miss Jane Leighton Richards, of Flora
McDonald College, spent the Thanksgiv-

ing vacation with her parents, Dr. and
Mrs. C. M. Richards.
Mrs: Nelson. Mebane, and children,

have returned from a visit with relatives
in Radford, Virginia.

Many of the Davidson girls who teach
North Carolina high schools spent
their vacations in Davidson with their

in

parents. Among them were Misses
Daisy Caldwell, Mary Gaffney, Susie
Jackson, Susan Moffett, and Sarah
Withers.

Prof. and Mrs. FF .K, Fleagle have re-

e ‘ee io ECS e ‘i ‘a = Pere fay oy
sical vespers next semester, . turned from a visit to Charleston,
tournament is rapidly drawing to a close. Ministerial Meeting which anit i tha eae Hl i Military Frat Initiates Girolings- Bret Rietpiee stent ce :
on . . hic e an Taster service, ane e § ‘ arouna, . -leagle atte
une Ollie mien, Hueviven we tour eng By Local Band | otter of whieh witt be a sacred concert, | Six ROTC Officers Here] sessions of the South Atlantic Modern
round matches: Bell, Barnett, Cathey, os nT similar to the one already presented —— Language Association,
Coit, Hill, Morrow, Robinson, and White.| ‘The Ministerial Band held a mecting Preparations for the Christmas Ves On Monday, December 3 at the drill ——___-—_-
ie the only game of the quarter-finals, | on Sunday afternoon at the “Social Cen-| pers. give promise of a most impressive period, the names of six men were read} @ +d
Martin Barnett defeated White in alter, W. J. B. Living reside aA ; ' i out by Capt.-Adjutant Jim Batte, to be
5 . J. B. Livingston, president of | service, whieh will, as has already been : eat ' K ’
close match. All quarter-final matches the band lead the meeting which began] announced, be broadcast in its entirety.| Honered by a bid to the Seabbard and ennedy 8 Shoe
must be completed by Wednesday night. | with scripture-by T. B. Hoover and pray-| ‘The YMCA Ping-Pong tournament | lide fraternity. Hach ot the six men Shop
Dec. 5th. er by T. D. Mullis. has progressed to the semi-finals, with fit seniors, and are, of Course, commis-
RTT Dee ee Talks on “What Shall | Choose” and| four contestants remaining. sioned officers inthe battalion, “The list e
Second Issue Of Yowl “Trust in Christ” were rendered by W. Seer eas 3 consisted of the following: John Doug Skilled Work hi
To Appear December 17 T. Manson and J. S. Brown respectively. Rev. J. H. Stone Chosen las, Gordon Green, Charles Harris, Ben Wwe orkmanship at
. Pa Paes ano * R. Bixler led i ayer and Living- Rose, Bob Smith, and Hugh Yelverton. .
The next issue of the Yow! will ap-|C. R (nae a IN iehcls Ael MG6 119 70 Speak At Y Vespers Da Reasonable Prices
pear by December 17 or 18. All material | ton gave a report on the meeting of the r \t the time this paper went to press
will be turned in to the printers within State Ministerial Convention which met Rev. J. H. Stone, of Jefferson, North | plans for the initiation were not com- e
the next day or so. in High Point on Noy. 10th and 11th. | Carolina, will speak at the Y.M! C, A, } plete, but Charlie ort, president of the
; yy ‘ aus ys ‘ oT 5 : Py
Lorenzo McPhail, editor of the maga- In his report Livingston mentioned that Vespers next Sunday, December 9 Mr. Scabbard and Blade, gave a brief outline | The best possible Material
zine, states that “the jokes will be on a L. C. Vass of Davidson had been elected | Stone will bring a special message about | for the initiation. le é
much milder scale” and that “the poems | Treasurer of the state association. Fol-|his work in the mountains of western ey)
turned in. have been of mutch lighter lowing this a report on how the minister- | North Carolina, It is to Mr. Stone's United in spirit and aim :
vein than in previous issues.” ial candidates voted on the question, “I} work in Ashe County that this year's Never failing in loyalty to Christ ve
The cover for the Christmas issue is|@™, a ministerial student, in favor of | Davidson's Christmas Fund is to go Nays ae Biblical joreereh lebetherhood
® 4 aT ” . . ¢ . nwar ressin o unlversa rotherhoo
being drawn by Hal Overton. Other art mouern dancing. Mr. Stone is a graduate of Davidson, Neciscting mane ie fedltowy (he LAAN,
workers are Collier Ellis, S. S. Ryburn, Nineteen of the votes were against | class of 1918, and of Union Theological Spiritually-minded; Scripturally-living
and M. M. Calloway. dancing, seven were for it. Seminary. Endeavoring to uphold His commands
“BAN ee es SC A — Ministering for the Master
In scholarship not inexpert
Nearness to truthful interpretation
R 4 ILF , , : ; ha
¢ For YOURSELF Any Day Four Out Of Five College Men Always seeking spiritual progress
Treat yourself to a Fountain y oe Reaching out in service :
Special Come To Yearning to bring all to Him!
’ THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
College Pharmacy .JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP Os Tee)
| RICHMOND, VA.
e \@ auamseaeensiore
e e
@
@
yes, and
9
eres W y—
°
‘ ¢ y o--- MA
We know that smoking a pipe
common-sense

is different from smoking a cigar or
and in trying to find
the tobacco best suited for pipes...

cigarette 3

We found out that the best tobacco
for use in a pipe grows down in the
Blue Grass Section of Kentucky, and it

is called White Burley.

There is a certain kind of this tobacco
‘that is between the tobacco used for ciga-
rettes and.the kind that is used for chew-

ing tobacco.

This is the kind of tobacco that we use,
year after year, for Granger Rough Cut.
We got the right pipe tobacco, made
. Wellman’s
Process... we cut it right... rough cut.

it by the

right process .

The big Granger flakes have to

burn

cool and they certainly last

longer, and never gum the pipe.

© 1934, Licostr & Mruxs Tosacco Co,

package—10c

the pipe tobacco thats MILD
the pipe tobacco that's COOL
eons - folks seem to like tt
