6 : THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 24,

COLLEGE FLOGKG) cistetina sowed

Grades And Knowledge

1934

Fighting Cats Bow To Masquers Give Plays
Blue Devils

Continued from Page 4

Seniors Down Juniors;

Conduct of ROTC Men Take Intramural Lead
Interests Non- Military ees

Intramural football was brought to a

Continued from Page 1
GRANDMA PULLS THE STRING

In a recent address to th s of > ed tee
‘. 4 © the students o Yarborough is injured and replaced by

During the drills of the last

Union Coflege Dr. William W. Bennett, close with the Senior class eleven tri-| . *. i. ; The cast:

1) GIRGUS AGAIN professor of economics at that institution, week or two, drill has held for umphing over a hard fighting Junior class SarBib, Morgan i ale leaving the Grand C. S. Howard
: Ss stated that college students of today|| Davidson non-R. O. T. C. men_ || team by the narrow margin of 6-2, This game, as he receives a big -hand from the : Ma__~~-----=------- ae
Davidson Students Attend Ring- were more interested in acquiring grades a strange attraction, which has led game turned out to be one of the bitter- teva St his outstanding work in to- Julia ease asA,: Ré he
ling Brothers, Barnum And than they were in acquiring knowledge.|]| them in large numbers to watch est fought of the entire schedule. “ “Widlsos iihuiee wad Bates Hildepard: caslecessacccec ss J. Lafferty

Bailey In Charlotte Dr.. Bennett also stated that the rating the soldier boys in their new uni- In the other game of this week the 3 inl2)) 538; NesaeatciacceeuEcexcloene J. Horton
‘ systems used by some educational in- forms on the lower, or Freshman Sophomore aggregation defeated the rete Gate ar Dake ot grind Mrs. Cummings ----------- W. R. Gilks
Ringling Bros. and Barnum and Bailey | stitutions were a great defect of the field. Freshmen by the one sided score of 24-0. iit baal tea peer td Thornton A. C. Cline

After the smoke of battle cleared the
Senior team had emerged on top with
a record of 3 wins and no losses.

The Sophomores were next with 2
wins and a single loss. In third slot
are the Juniors who racked up 1 win and
two losses. Occupying the cellar posi-
tion are the Freshmen with no wins and
three losses.

As a result of this play the Seniors
have teken an early lead in the inter-

Commands ring out over the
drill field, ‘“‘Squads right by left,
March”, in direct opposition of all
military teaching. Occasionally a
squad disappears over the em-
bankment or runs into the wall.
Flustered corporals have their men
scattered over the entire edge of
the drill field as they were prepar-
ing for a strategic combat with a
German war division.

Combined Circus was in Charlotte last] American educational system.
Monday, putting on a show that attract-
ed wide attention not only in the Queen
City but here on the Hill.

A large number of Davidson students
attended at least one of the two perform-
ances given by the ‘“World’s largest
show”, fighting their way through the
close-packed menagerie to sit among a
multitude of small and sticky boys, and

red line”. Whitener finally crashes

over right tackle for the final

touchdown. Score, Duke 20;

Davidson 0.

Still the Wildcats are fighting des-
perately, giving Duke plenty of trouble
with its varied aerial attack. Pittman
begins fire with a long return of Park-
er's punt to Duke’s 35. Mackorell gets
9 yards.. Verble and Pittman crash

The third and last play, A Night At

“We have developed the technique of An Inn a d that takes place
A , Was a drama

grades to a ridiculous degree,” said Dr.
Bennett. “In some institutions the grades
are computed by means of higher mathe-
matics. The final grade, which is filed
with the registrar at the end of the year,
is too often a compilation of recitations,
hour tests, written reports, and the final
examination,

in a room in an inn, This excellent work
was directed by Gordon Wood.
A NIGHT IN AN INN
The cast:

A. E. Scott-Fortescue (The Toff)
UAWckbEiuebeonsauaee J. Washburn

BHAT WHILE ke eed Ney att bey _ “Tt Seems to tule about as reasonable to Maintaining a straight line and || class scoring. Their win was a repeti- tra i g a ate Ay nee W Mats Jones (Bill) ae H. eek
on those memorable days when the circus include tests in the final mark as to keeping cadence is positively out tion of last year. The point scores to Wak pockets a 15 yard pass rom| Albert Thomas —------- W. S. Edwards
has come to town. f count the touchdowns made by the vat-|] of the question. The fatherly ad- date are as follows: Seniors, 20; Sopho- amen te fh kek 4 MeAdtneh Jacob Smith (Sniggers) ----- K. Scott

Brass-band, pink-lemonade, _ cotton sity against the Freshmen in practice|] vice of senior commanding officers mores, 15; Juniors, 10; and Freshmen, 5. rd SHY Lab a bite Three Priests of Klesh-.---- L. Reed,

is stopped by Big Six Johnston.
Pittman returns Duke’s kick to her
own 44-yard marker. Another
series of passes net three first
downs for the ’Cats. Hennemier
intercepts the last Davidson pass
to despell the last remaining hope
of getting over Jordon, into the
promised land.

The captains of the class teams were:
Sam Bernardo, Seniors; Jim Cothran,
Juniors; Porter, Sophomores; and Sei-

games with the touchdowns made during aid the corporals in securing some
the regular Saturday game. Tests should bl of di and smooth
be considered as scrimmages of practice cadence. Flattering advice is
games to assist in preparation for the often secured from the freshman
examination, which, if properly compre- element of the squads.

hensive, may determine the degree of The P. M. S. & T. sighs with
competence attained in the distinct relief when the bells “toll
the knell of parting day’’. The
columns straggle slowly toward the
dormitories and the headquarters,
and to the tune of “Inspection
Arms”, they put down their sem-
blance of army for the time.

candy, barkers extolling the charms of
the famous tattooed lady, canes, dolls,
’ pop-corn, moppets yelling for “i-ice-
crream”, none of these were lacking; all
went to make it a typical circus day.
Eight hundred “areific stars” scattered
along the three rings and four stages of
the World’s largest tent provided enough
entertainment to make the really con-
scientious observer cross-eyed, even if
they didn’t all appear at once.
There were no less than three acts by
men on the flying

J. Y. Wilson, and O. M. Covington
Klesh, the Idol from India--A. C. Cline
The technical staff were: D. F. Her-
ring, stage manager, F. R. Hillier, H. H.
Smallridge,’ W. M. Taylor, W. F.
Pierce, W. A. Stuckey, F. S. Poe, D.
Bowles, H. Woodward, G. D. Cassell,
F. W. Pharr, W. S. Frieze, W. Jones,
F. A. Brown, J. S. Cook, I. S. Bull, Jr.

fert, Freshmen.
Dr. Blanton Belk Will
Speak At “Y”

Continued from Page 1

course.”

Dr. Bennett suggested that the grad-
ing of students in large general groups
such as A, B,C, or D would be a de-
sirable trend in the development of ex-
aminations and gradings.

As Felix Sees "Em

Continued from Page 4

full life from his college days, and on
seeing him the students will realize that
he is a man who has touched life at
many points. I believe the average

may lose a few yards once in a e @

the daring young
trapeze and their fair companions.
young Spanish gentleman gave his ver-
sion of the Carioca on a tight wire. The

A

In reply to the students who want to
be exempted from examinations if they
attain an average of 85 or more, Dr. Ben-
nett said, “Good students should be given

Music Department Will

Davidson man will not only hear Dr.
Belk-gladly but will be drawn to him
personally and will find him both a

while, but when one of the plays
clicks, it pays nice dividends. The
Mackorell to Morgan to Wingfield

Kennedy’s Shoe

Shop

Skilled Workmanship at

Reasonable Prices

passing arrangement that was pull-
ed against Duke is one of the rarer
examples of this sort of game, but
it shows very clearly the beauty
and profit of risking the possibility
of losing a little ground, and at the
same time making it highly possi-

Present Concert Series speaker of unusual attractiveness and a
eae a counselor of great sympathy.”

Student season tickets for the series} The first service of the meeting will

of three musical concerts to be presented] he Sunday morning at the regular

this year by the music department will] church hour. Dr. Belk will also speak

cost $1.00, according to an announce-| jn the evening at six o'clock at the regu-

ment made last Wednesday in chapel by] lar vesper service. The chapel hour on

clowns staged their usual fireman act.
Men, two men (count 'em) were shot
from a cannon. And don't forget the
horses; without them it wouldn’t be a
circus!

Yes, even the most blasé of collegians
found something to admire or argue

comprehensive examinations if they want
to try for scholastic honors, while others
who may not desire to try for such
honors might be exempted from taking
exams, if any are to be exempted.”

7 : , ” = WwW ingle. The admissi eel Orr Hh eeeee itenitatits ble for a nice substantial gain. It’s e

about among the “ten thousand wonders S A.E Beats Betas As Dr. W. L. Lingle. The _admission to] Monday, ‘Tuesday, and Wdenesday 2 ; 8 ¢

of the big top. . F : F i; each concert individually will be 50 cents.| mornings will be lengthened and the going a put the ’Cats places, be- “The best possible Material”
‘ rat ootball Begins Admission to this series for those} eyening services will be at seven o'clock. cause they are connecting more

other than students will be $2,00 for the
set and 75 cents for each concert. These
concerts will be given by the following
artists : Palmer Christian, organist ;
Joseph Brinkman, pienist; and Wilson

than they are failing these days. e@ e

Tennis Tourney Near

Finals
Continued from Page 4

Monday afternoon the S.A.E,’s gained
a place in the second round of the inter-
fraternity football tournament by de-
feating the Betas 6-0 in a hard fought
game. Throughout the contest the two
teams battled on equal terms, the S.A.-
E.s gaining their advantage when. only
40 seconds of play remained. 9

Consistently Good Food Throughout the
M h B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., Pres.
was only the first round match, the other ont

i Richmond, Va.
seven fraternities advancing on byes to HOTEL DAVIDSON

the second round. 0 © °

Now Open
Ideal Barber Shop

In Back Of
Ray Harrison's

Shave 15c Haircut 25c
“Come give us a trial”

The Minister of Tomorrow—

Needs the. best of theological training
that is available today.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

Four men are in the quarter-finals,
three of which are seeded. In the upper
bracket John Walker first disposed of
Tom Sutton in a 6-2, 6-4 manner and
then upset the dope with a surprising
three set victory over Martin Barnett.
Jake Morrow, Walker's opponent in the

« quarter-finals, has wins over R, H. Rob-
inson 6-2, 6-4 and Bob Lindsay 10-8,
6-4,

In the lower bracket Carl Carlson has
entered the quarter-finals in a rather hard
pressed way, having been forced to three
sets in each match. Loyd Fenithenber-
ger was his first victim by a 6-3, 2-6, 6-3
score and then Carlson put Henry Cas-
sidy out of the running with a 6-2, 4-6,
6-3 match.

Carlyle Lewis, ranked number two, has
had a comparatively. easy time so far
as he has only dropped two games in his
first two matches. Lewis won from
Louis Crew 6-1, 6-1 and then he took
Ed Bivens to town in two straight love
sets, 6-0, 6-0.

Y Boys’ Work Program . q co ———lti(‘<sé;é;~ |
Gets Fully Underway —  . —

The Boys’. work of the Y. M. C. A.
has. been launched successfully with
every department working. The Boys’
Club across the tracks has been started
and the Hi-Y club of Davidson held its
first meeting last week.

The football teams have started both
at Davidson and Cornelius under the
direction of John Brown at Cornelius,
and J. J. McNabb and Lawrence Reid
at Davidson. The Mill Chapel Work,
under the direction of Carlyle Lewis and
Jack Branch, has started with fifteen
boys present.

Angel, bass.
tickets are on sale now by
members of the musical department.

These

At this point an S.A.E. pass fell into
the arms of one of their players after
caroming off an opposing player. ‘This

sat many Chesterfields..
“gataapan ae
pare always the sam

Davidson Frosh Downed

By V. P. I. Cadets

Continued from Page 4

linemen. Cregger was forced to fall on
the ball to prevent the ‘Kittens from
making a touchdown. This resulted in
a safety for the local gridmen, their only
score of the game.

Early in the third quarter, V. P. I.
got the ball on the Davidson 26 yard line
by a fortunate exchange of punts. Creg- f
ger crashed through the line for four : : { i ; =F

3 - af

successive gains of 14 yards, 2 yards, eS ’
3 yards, and 6 yards to cross the goal The Chesterfields you re
line, making the second V. P. I. touch- smoking now are just like
down. Again, the kick was blocked,
making the score 12-2, the final count. they were last year or any
The lineups: other year—because we al-
ways buy the right tobaccos
—uniformly ripe and mild.

- VP. Davidson
Nichelson
| ET ECE Hill
Bixler
mere ; Overall
Grey
Graham
LS Williams

Position

WEDNESDAY

ROSA NINO GRETE |
PONSELLE MARTINI STUECKGOLD

KOSTELANETZ ORCHESTRA AND CHORUS
9 P.M. (£. s. T.) —COLUMBIA NETWORK

MONDAY SATURDAY

Hogan

Robbins
Vv. P. 1

) : 2, 0, 0, 0
Officials were: Referee, Hackney of
North~, Carolina; Umpire, Mason of \
Duke ;,/Head Linesman, Ison of North
Carolina.

they taste better

