THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 7, 1934

The PDavidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

Member of
Associated Golleginte Press

= 1933 (nation

covensct) 1934 =

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:

$2.00 the Col-
legiate year.

Ten cents per copy;

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,

North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of Managing Editors
y 4:00 o'clock p. m., Monday. Letters to the Editor are
welcome, but all communications intended for publication
must be signed.

ODISGASAMseecccuttscciceisiccectsccadeauestats Pasiss Editor

Wists JOHN SONsss ios cdceds coceas cdbscualecucuces. Business Manager

G. L. GULLETTE. Managing Editor

E. F. McPHAIL. < Managing Editor

B. L. ROSE anaging Editor

K. D, WEEK anaging Editor

JACK 2 HEULINGERS ies See eee Alumni Editor

C. E. NORVELL, JR.-- ;Sports Editor

RAWLING PRATT-THOMAS.. Editorial Writer

5 A. HUNT Exchange Editor

. B. --Feature Editor

S. K. ..Feature Editor

S. C. Editor

Cc. S. Editor

D. W. Editor

L. WwW. Editor

A, F. SCHENCK ‘ ---Associ Editor

Wi 2M THOMPSONS ios ie coasts see Associate Editor

JACK WILLIAMS, JR... Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

G. L. GREEN... --Assistant Business Manager

W._L. SPRUNT. Assistant Business Manager

}: R. TAYLOR. Assistant Business Manager

. A. C. WADSWOR Assistant Business r

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1933

Laws are not made for the good.—Socrates.

SHOULD FRATERNITIES BE- ABOLISHED?

To the perennial controversy as to whether
fraternities are a boon ora blight to college life
comes a bit of actual evidence. Last spring, and
again this winter by a confirmatory vote, the
women students at Swarthmore COllege agreed
to abolish their secret societies, to which 80 per
cent of them belonged and which maintained
houses on the campus. For a year and a half,
while this decision was maturirig, there has been
a moratorium on the society activities.’

During that period, President Aydelotte testi-
fies in his annual report, college has been con-
ducted in a more democratic and delightful man-
ner than has ever been the case before during
his dozen years at Swarthmore.

“Emphasis is placed on events at which all
undergraduates are welcome,” he says; “social
affairs are more frequent and less formal, Col-
lection Hall is constantly used for informal gath-
erings after dinner, for dances and games, for
exhibitions and teas, organized by the undergrad-
uates themselves. The result is a veritable trans-
formation of the spirit of the college.”

He contrasts these “free, democratic, unified
social affairs’ with “the depressing effect upon
the morale of ‘{h@ undergraduates of fraternity
domination of social life.”

The above article, which appears in a recent
issue of the “New York Times,” presents the
observations of an able and brilliant man, for
Frank Aydelotte, president of Swarthmore Col-
lege, is also American Secretary of the Rhodes
Foundation which sponsors the Rhodes Scholar-
ships.

There is no doubt in our minds that a more
democratic and more unified state of affairs will
exist in a small college if fraternities were abol-
ished; provided however that there are facilities
to take care of the entire student body at social
gatherings and in social activities.

In a large college or university, however, it
would be practically impossible to get a unified
state—_of_attairs,fraternities- or-no—fraternities:

Then, too, the advantages of fraternities are
not limited to a single campus or to one’s college
days. National social fraternities provide hos-
pitality for affiliated representatives and visitors
from other schools, which hospitality a non-fra-
ternity man seldom receives because American
colleges do not include it in their programs. Fra-
ternities also provide a place to which an affili-
ated alumnus may come when he returns to the
college for a visit.

There are advantages and disadvantages of
fraternities, and before a college should abolish
them, the disadvantages should be in excess of
the, advantages.

RHODES SCHOLARSHIPS
“Several interesting facts appear in the list of
newly-elected Rhodes Scholars on the following
pages. Although Yale, Harvard and Princeton
“are well represented, and several small colleges
were again successful, the state universities seem
to have scored heavily this year. Several of the
less populous states are well represented, to the

great satisfaction of all concerned. Arizona, New.

Hampshire, Utah (with two men), and West Vir-
ginia were all successful this year. California,
Illinois, Massachusetts, New York and Pennsyl-
vania each secured but one Rhodes Scholar. Big
fellows are indeed put in their places in these

troubled times!” (Editorial in the American
Oxonian, January, 1934, p. 4).

When the district plan of appointing Rhodes
Scholars was submitted for the state plan, it was
feared by many\that the new arrangement would
result in concentrating appointments in strong
states and strong institutions. Actually the op-
posite has happened. At “the first election ac-
cording to the district plan four small colleges,
including Davidson, were successful (Dec. 1929),
The 1930 election was perhaps the banner year
for “small” colleges, nine, with enrollments
ranging from 325 to 857, being represented. This
year the appointments were as follows:

Yale (4), Harvard (3) and Princeton (3)_-10

State Universities of Arizona, Georgia,

Illinois, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri,

North Carolina, North Dakota, Okla-

homa, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Virginia,

West Virginia and State College of
Washington, 1 each_..----.-___..-_1_-__14
Others: Baylor University (Texas),

Brigham Young U., Cornell U., Dart-_:
mouth, Pomona, Reed (Oregon), Tu-

lane and Washington U. (St. Louis)_-____ 8

e _—

POtal sce ee Ue ee ee 32
Three of the state universities have under

2,000 students, two others less than 3,000, and
two others a little over 3,000. Two of the pri-
vate institutions have about 1,500 students, and
Pomona and Reed have 752 and 409 respectively.
Pomona of course had to compete against Leland
Stanford and the University of California, both
large and powerful institutions. All this would
seem to indicate that the committees of selection
are the fair and impartial bodies they ought to
be, and that an outstanding candidate, whether
he be from Harvard or little Reed College, is
considered on his merits. ‘This ought to be en-
couraging to'Davidson men. To be sure we can-
not expect to win every time, or perhaps more
than once on the average in a college generation:
The competition seems to grow keener every
year—this year there were more candidates than
ever before, and the quality of the candidates
Was certainly not poorer than in the past. If we
continue to try every year, we shall win our due
share. We have reason to feel pleased that sey-
eral of our candidates made a very good showing
this time before the North Carolina committee.

Personally the writer feels that the appoint-
ment of Robert Barnett of the University of
North Carolina was a particularly happy one. He
came to America on a scholarship awarded by the
Rotary Club of Shanghai, open, apparently, to
all white residents of that city. He is delivering
part of the lectures in a certain class at the Uni-
versity, in addition to his graduate work. He
hopes to do journalistic work in:Shanghai after
concluding his work at Oxford University. He
has a. vision and a world-outlook which appar-
ently impressed the local and district commit-
tees of selection.

» —G. R. Vowles.

REQUIREMENTS FOR A SUCCESSFUL
INSTITUTION

Davidson College is certainly considered by the
majority of people to be a successful institution.
Davidson also has the reputation of being staid,
dependable, stable. She is firm, yes, even reso-
lute in her convictions. These are certainly com-
mendable attributes. The Rock of Gibraltar is
reliable, solid, and secure; it has: successfully
withstood the battles of the elements and of man.
And yet this natural stronghold would be shat-
tered by a natural upheaval, sich as an earth-
quake, by reason of its own inflexibility.

We all realize the education has undergone
phenomenal changes during the past 60 years.
A\s a result of experimentation startling develop-
ments have resulted and no college can stand

‘still in the swiftly Howing current of change and

transition. If it attempts to remain constant and
immoyable it will inevitably be destroyed by the
revolutionary forces that play upon it.

Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler, president of Co-
lumbia University, recently said, “An institution
must have the essentials of growth, adaptation,
open-mindedness, and liberalism.” Davidson Col-
lege undoubtedly possesses these characteristics,
but we would like to suggest that she give full
consideration to the two latter qualities. Dr.
Butler also stated, “We had come -to a point
where the old, valuable, narrow program was no
longer adequate. Immense masses of knowledge
came in... . Leading colleges finally reached so-
lutions, with the result that today we are in a
wholly different college situation and a period
still marked by confusion.” Davidson has not yet
reached solutions for many of her major prob-
lems, but if the powers that be give thoughtful
attention to the “preceding statements of Dr.
Butler, we may rest assured that solutions will
be forthcoming. —R. P.-T.

College education has proved largely unsuc-
cessful in its major endeavor of making. man
the master of his environment, in the opinion
of Dr. Lewis A. Wilson, assistant New York
State Commissioner of Education.

NEWS DIGEST

BIRTHDAY PARTY

Last Tuesday night the entire nation
staged the largest birthday party ever
held, in honor of the fifty-second anni-
versary of the birth of President
Roosevelt. Balls were held in. thou-
sands of cities and town throughout
the country, the proceeds going to the
Warm Springs Foundation at Warm
Springs, Georgia, where F. D. was
cured of infantile paralysis. Thousands
of congratulatory messages from all
over the world were received at the
executive mansion. It was the grand-
est and most novel declaration of love
and confidence ever staged for a Presi-
dent. Congratulatioris, Mr. President,
and many more happy birthdays.

NEW DOLLAR
The value of the dollar has again
been changed. This time it has been
reduced to fifty-nine cents and a frac-

tion. The Senate voted 66 to 43 to de-
value the dollar which had already
been cut, although its significance

means little to the average man. The
Senate also voted 45 to 43 not to do
anything about silver. The last vote,
which was taken on the question of a
silver basis, showed a majority of about
fifteen. It looks like we are getting
closer and closer to a silver standard.

NEW FRENCH CABINET
After two months of turmoil, Dala-
dier, the strong arm French minister,
is attempting to form a clean-up cab-
inet which will be free from corruption
and graft and end the Paris street riot-
ing which resulted in the overthrow
of the old cabinet. He is seeking a
ministry of new blood and one support-
ed by parties between the Socialists on
the left and the Marin groups on the
tight. The leaders in the Nazi party
are known to be in favor of Daladier
and this should aid his efforts a great
deal. Chautemps’ cabinet fell Satur-
day amid street demonstrations after
the corruption of the Stavinsty affair
which resulted in the loss to French

investors of forty million dollars.

GUNS OF HAVANA

Again the guns are booming in Ha-
vana and the populance which seemed
so satisfied over the Mendieta govern-
ment are now leading another strike
which threatens to add Mendieta to
the growing list of Cuba’s leaders in
the last six months. The young gov-
ernment is at the crossroads of its ca-
tecr but the President is calm in the
face of the strike, although he admits
that it is serious. The workers are ral-
lying around Rafael Giraud who is in
hiding, as the police immediately or-
dered his arrest.

JAPANESE NAVY

Yoshizawa, former foreign minister
of Japan, told his fellow members of
the house of peers in Tokyo, that by
1937 the Japanese navy would outrank
that of the United States. He also
said that if the navy men of the two
nations began to dictate terms in the
coming naval conference that a break
was inevitable and that intensified
naval competition, even if war was
averted would be the ultimate airy of
Japan, Foreign Minister Hirota agreed
with the views expressed by his com-
patriot.

STRATOSPHERE DEATH

The last attempt into the stratos-
phere, made by three Russian balloon-
ists, set a new record and ended in
death for all three of the balloon’s oc-
cupants. . The balloon reached a-height
of over sixty-seven thousand feet but
it struck the ground so hard on the
descent that all three men were killed
by the contact. Their claim of reach-
ing such a height was given by radio
when they were still aloft and as all
the scientific instruments used in the
flight were demolished when the acci-
dent occurred, there is‘no way of prov
ing their claim of a new record.

SLPA

Those Washington Senators! who are
interested in the St. Lawrence River
Project will no doubt be surprised at
the following extract from an able
Canadian newspaper: “Canada is to
obtain four million horsepower and
the United States one million horse-
power out of the whole St. Lawrence
waterway development.” The Canadian
minister to Washington is also con-
gratulated by this paper in obtaining
the majority of the advantages while
bearing a good deal less in cost. Per-
haps those men on the senate com-
mittee considering this project will now
begin to pick up their ears and wonder
if this statement is correct and if so
why?

Gamma Sigma Epsilon
Amused by Alderman

Several experiments in __“ Surface
Tension Phenomena” were performed
for members of Gamma Sigma Epsilon,
national chemical fraternity, at its reg-
ular meeting Monday night, by Mat
Alderman of the Junior class. Alder-
Than amused his audience with start-
ling exhibitions.

A talk, explaining an oxidation and
reduction chart, was given by Ed
Hodge, and plans for building a case
in which to place mineral exhibits were
discussed. The chapter also decided to
label journal extracts in'the chemistry
library.

Schurz Foundation to
Bring Art Exhibit Here

A German art exhibit, sponsored by
the German and Fine Arts departments
of Davidson College, will be brought
before Davidson students from March
21 to 28, under the auspices of the
Carl. Schurz: Memorial Foundation of
Philadelphia.

“The exhibition consists of a collec-
tion of 125 original etchings, wood-
cuts, and lithographs by modern Ger-
man artists. Explanatory talks will
be made by a representative of the
foundation. No charge will be made
to the public, it was announced.

E. L. POWELL CHOSEN
FRESHMAN ADVISER

(Continued from page 1)
sulted in a large margin for Powell.
In accepting his new duties, Powell
announced that he would be glad to
act as a counselor at any time for the
class as a whole or for any individual
member, should problems arise with
the Court of Control, Student Council,
or other disciplinary group. The mat-
ter of discarding freshman caps will
also be taken up with the court by

Powell in behalf of the class.

The elections for officers of the
Freshman class, which will be held
some time in the early spring in order
that the officers may be installed at
the same time as the Student Council,
will be conducted by Powell.

The new counselor urged the class
to co-operate to the fullest with him
and the disciplinary groups of the cam-
pus; offering his services as general
adviser to any freshman on matters
other than those of. discipline.

MID-WINTERS BRINGS
FAMOUS ORCHESTRA

(Continued from page 1)
out the nation. Gill and his band also
played for dances at Duke and the
University of North Carolina a short
time before Christmas.

On Other Campuses

WESTERN RESERVE
UNIVERSITY

“Sweet College Days” is the tune
Western Reserve University students
are singing and there is a good deal
more than sentiment behind it.

A large swarm of bees has firmly
entrenched itself in the walls of Adel-
bert Hall on the campus and will prob-
ably stay there if they behave them-
selves. Although approximately 150
pounds of honey has been deposited
within the walls, the college officials
have decided that the cost of remov-
ing the honey would far exceed the
value of the honey itself; so long as
there is no disturbance the apian vis-

itors will remain unmolested. (The
Emory Wheel.)
LOYOLA

Huey Longism has affected Louis-
iana in more ways than one. Back in
the good ole days, when men were
men, and John M. Parker was gover-
nor of the state, students and citizens
of New Orleans fought duels to settle
disputes. Gentlemanly duels have gone
out of existence since Huey’s new mode
of fighting has become the rage
(brawling)! That is, two students at
Loyola think so. Seems as though a
certain class in Polit disagreed over
some question of law. The argument
waxed so warm that two students in
the rear of the room began a hearty
demonstration of the “Long method.”
However, the professor broke up the
demonstration, and persuaded the stu-
dents to settle the dispute by other
means!

WISCONSIN

At least two Wisconsin co-eds are
having trouble getting dates for the
university prom. Two personals ap-
peared in the student newspaper, car-
rying the following captions,—“Men
Wanted.” One advertiser, willing to
pay all expenses, specified that the man
must be “at least 5 feet 10 inches tall
and a good dancer.” The other offered
to share expenses, described herself as
“brunette, considered attractive and
about: 5 feet 3 inches tall.” The boys
have until the middle of February to
think it over.

LOUISIANA

“Most doctors bury their mistakes,
but I. make sausage out of mine,”
stated Dr. Branchioni, of Louisiana
State, after he had discovered that the
Louisiana State University’s prize-
winning cow was butchered by mis-
take by the meat culturing class.

“WHEN A FELLER |
NEEDS A FRIEND

\

VS

f

There’s genial ‘sunshine and comfort in
BRIGGS Pipe Mixture... the delightful
new tobacco that is winning smokers every-
where. Mellowed in the wood for years,
until it’s biteless, mild, and rare in flavor!
Try a tin of BRIGGS and let it talk in

your pipe instead of in print.

KEPT FACTORY FRESH
by inner lining of
CELLOPHANE

© P. Lorillard Co., lac,
