THE DAVIDSONIAN,

NOVEMBER 7, 1934

ORGAN RECITAL
RENDERED HERE

Palmer Christian, Of University
Of Michigan, Offers Recital
Tuesday
Of unusual interest to the musical-
minded at Davidson, as well as to those
of the entire state, was the organ re-
cital rendered before a large audience
by Palmer Christian last Tuesday eve-

ning in Chambers Building.

The recital was played on the three-
manual Skinner organ by the emminent
organist, whose name is known where-
ever there is interest in the organ or
in organ music. Mr. Christian at pres-
ent heads the organ department of the
University of Michigan.

Mr. Christian opened his Davidson
program with the impressive Psalm
XIX, by Marcello, which was followed
by Rameau’s Minuet et Gigue en ron-
deau. Following was Handel’s Largo
in E, which enjoyed a very enthusiastic
reception. Mr. Christian’s sole Bach
selection, Fantasie and Fugue in C
minor, proved exceptionally well fitted
for the Davidson organ. This fugue,
unlike most fugues, kept its listeners’
attention by its swiftness and vigor. In
this number, Mr. Christian’s brilliant
pedal technique, as well as his ease and
unexcelled mastery of the console were
Particularly outstanding.

The contrast of the number following,
Hage’s “Aftonfrid” (Evening Peace),
with the vigorous fugue was most pleas-
ing. DeLamarter’s “The Fountain” de-
lighted the audience by its colorful ef-
fects. Mr. Christian’s mastery of the
great French composer, Cesar Franck,
was shown by his excellent rendition of
the composer’s Choral in A minor. This
particular number proved to be the high-
light of the program, and received not-
able acclaim by the audience. Prelude
in E, by Saint-Saens was followed by
the crisp and brilliant Minuet and
Scherzo, by Jongen. This number dis-
played the most colorful resources of
the organ, in the use of which Mr.
Christian is scarcely equalled.

“OQ Zion,” an arrangement of the
familiar spiritual, “Swing Low, Sweet
Chariot,” was done with especial regard
to the spirit and character of this type
of composition. ‘This selection delighted
all members of the audience, and is quite
typical of the famous organist’s excel-
lent judgment in the choosing of con-
cert selections. As his final number, Mr.
Christian played his own arrangemerit
of Sinding’s ‘Norwegian Rhapsody. The
colorful, joyous, and powerful mood of
this composition brought into promi-
nence the magnificent full organ, and
made a fitting close to the splendid pro-
gram.

Mr. Christian’s precise and brilliant
technique, his absolute ease at the con-
sole, and especially his beautiful and col-
orful stop selection were but a few of
his outstanding points of excellence. He
is known especially for his program
building, by which he captures the in-
terests of all types of listeners. Mr.
Christian, unlike many concert organ-
ists, plays his programs entirely from
memory. His poise and finish at the
console made his concert unforgettable
to all those fortunate enough to hear
him.

In the audience were many well-known
North Carolina organists and musicians,
as well as a splendid showing of stu-
dents and interested individuals from
Davidson and surrounding communities.

1934 Yearbook Editor
Studying In New York

Jack Williams, Jr., editor of the 1934
edition of “Quips and Cranks,” is study-
ing journalism at Columbia University,
New York City, this winter. He has re-
cently been elected ‘secretary of, the
Southern Club and also been invited to
join the New York Writers Club. He
and his sister, Miss Ruth Williams,
spent ten weeks traveling in Europe last
summer. While abroad he acted as cor-
respondent for several Georgia news-
papers, while Miss Williams took notes
on styles at the Paris openings.

‘While at Amsterdam, Williams called
the Kaiser on long distance for an in-
terview. The Kaiser was unwilling to
give an official interview, but they did
stop to see him at his estate at Doorn.
Other figures they report seeing on the
trip were: King George V of England;
Queen Wilhelmina -and Princess Jul-
eana, of Holland; the Prince of Abys-
sinia; and Mussolini:

BE WELL
GROOMED
for HOME-COMING

|
e

Norton’s Barber
Shop

ALUMNI HEAD

Mr. Joseph B. Johnston, who
succeeds Dr. Ben R. Lacy as Pres-
ident of the Alumni Association of
Davidson College. Mr. Johnston
is a member of the class of '01,
and was prominent in athletics and
in other campus activities. He has
been an lly loyal al

A A A A A A A

Y.M.C.A.

A

Y Y Y Y Y Y Y

The ping pong tournament to which
the wooden racqueters have looked for-
ward with much enthusiasm will begin
at the “Y” next week.

Material for covering the pool table
located in the “Y” building has been
purchased and is to be placed on the
table this week. %

On Sunday a “Y” deputation journeyed
to Jefferson, North Carolina, where they
conducted the following services in three
churches: Bon Brandon rendered a ser-
mon for the morning service of the
Lansing Church; at 2:30 P. M. Don
Bailey spoke to the members of the
Gillespie Church; and Tommie Phifer
preached for the evening service of the
Foster Memorial Church. Hubert Mor-
ris and Bob Leonard furnished special
music at each of the services.

The members of the various churches
cordially received the visitors and ex-
pressed their appreciation for the splen-
did manner in which the services were
conducted.

MILITARY FRAT
TO MEET oO0N

‘

Davidson To Send Delegate To
Scabbard And Blade National
Convention

Tentative plans are ‘now being made
by the R. O. T. C. battalion here to send
a delegate to represent the Davidson Re-
serve Officers at the 19th Convention
of the National Society of Scabbard
and Blade, which will convene on the
campus of the University of Cincinnati,
Cincinnati, Ohio, on November 15.

Scabbard and Blade is an honorary
organization of advanced R. O. T. C.

The organization numbers 78 compan-
ies, with an active membership of ap-
proximately 2,000, and a total member-
ship of about 22,000.

The National Convention is assembled
every other year, with the organization
as a whole bearing the expense of one
delegate from each company. Quite fre-
quently the companies send alternates
to share in the information to be derived.

The organization sponsors a_ pistol
match and a rifle match between the va-

“Run it...”

AT THE LOCAL THEATRE

Thursday & Friday, Nov. 8 and 9
MRS. WIGGS OF THE CABBAGE
PATCH
This is the picturization of the well
known work of this name. Pauline Lord,
W. C. Fields, and Zasu Pitts play the
leads. This picture should afford good

entertainment for all.

Saturday, Nov. 10
STRAIGHT IS THE WAY

Franchot Tone, May Robson, and Ka-
ren Morley.

Monday and Tuesday, Nov. 12 and 13

THE MERRY WIDOW

This is the latest production of The
Merry Widow and is said to be an ex-
cellent picture with its lavish costumes.

Wednesday, Nov. 14
SIX BICYCLE RIDERS

This picture brings Joe E. Brown,
that howling comic, back again. This
picture is very amusing. He gets into
all kinds of jams but manages to get
out again. The cast includes Joe E.
Brown, Maxine Doyle, and Frank Mc-
Hugh.

Mooresville Men Are
Struck By Automobile

Two unidentified young men who said
that they were residents of Mooresville ,
were struck by an automobile on the
main road through Davidson last Sat-
urday.

The two men were evidently trying
to catch a ride when they were hit by
a Ford car driven by a woman, also
from Mooresville. Neither was serious-
ly hurt. They were taken to the college
infirmary, where it was found that one
man had a gash in his head which ne-
cessitated several *stitches. After treat-
ment the pair got into an automobile
and continued on their way.

e ©
Kennedy’s Shoe
Shop

e
Skilled Workmanship at

Reasonable Prices
e

“The best possible Material”

of the college, and has taken h 3 ¥ e e
quite an active part in the activi- The quartet consisting of Frank Tuck-| rious companies each year. A cup is} @ e
ties of the Alumni Association as | ¢t, John Morgan, John Washburn, Paul hells the winning tei rated
well as those of the college. He McClanahan, and Carlton Chappman at cron Ula? support a national publica- vl
will preside over the Alumni | the piano, sang before the student body |": the Scabbard and Blade Journal, Davidson Theatre
luncheon to be given in Chambers of Gastonia High’ School on Monday, and coordinate the efforts of all com-
Free nee a eiseeay: shoes Novear The nutnbers fips prety Wieccuieeyae. Los THURSDAY AND FRIDAY, NOV. 8 AND 9
johnston has often n led on xy the qu were met with loud ap- |“ = :
to give talks at pep meetings in plause and re thoroughly enjoyed by e MRS. WIGGS OF THE CABBAGE P ATCH
Shearer Hall, and is one of the the entire audience, consisting of more :
Wildcats’ enthusiastic supporters. | than 1,000 students, —~ Catch | ng WITH PAULINE LORD, W. C. FIELDS and ZASU PITTS
* SATURDAY, NOV. 10
e STRAIGHT IS THE WAY
WITH FRANCHOT TONE, AND KAREN MORLEY
MONDAY AND TUESDAY, NOV. 12 AND 13
FOR LIFE! THE MERRY WIDOW
WITH MAURICE CHEVALIER, JANETTE MacDONALD,
EDWARD EVERET HORTON.
WEDNESDAY, NOV. 14
: : ° TRO- SIX BICYCLE RIDERS
Dr. Pepper Bottling Company for nose & WITH JOE E. BROWN, MAXINE DOYLE, AND
CHARLOTTE, N. C. : Pron nee
i é Helps PREVENT many colds é 4

‘It’s toasted”

Yd Your threat protection—against irritation—against cough

Copyright, 1934
The American
Tobacco Company

The clean center leaves are the mildest
leaves—they cost more—they taste
better—so of course, Luckies use only
the clean center leaves—the choicest
Turkish and Domestic tobaccos.
