6 , THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 26, 1934

} summer, was the much-needed work on
FA C U L T Y D I R E 8 fi O R \F the Y building. New floors were put in
) and the walls were done over in attrac- Under New
: tive wall paper. New curtains were
CEE IN CAMPUS Professor Office Address pray Location Phone added and the whole appearance of the Management
: ____—. | | reading room was changed. We sincere- The Carolina Inn is under
Arbuckle, H. B. Chemical Lab. Concord Rd. Right Second House from Forks of Road 47 ly hope that students will feel free to New Management and we
Bailey, J. C. 103 South St. Left Fourth House 95 come in and use these rooms as much as would like for you to try usy/
Beaty, E. A. 319 Concord Rd. Right Fourth House in Second Block 190 possible. However, we also ask that you The Food is inexpensive but//
Blythe>-F. L. 203 N. Main St. Left First House from Shearer Hall 62 be especially careful and try to keep the not Cheap. iy
} Brown, C. K; 221 Concord Rd. Left Below T. W. Lingle’s 212 building looking na clean SHA ATBALC As Va
. Sa rate ; i Clifford, A. T. Chemical Lab. Woodlawn-Ave. Right _Second House 161 seaihieic oN ewan ee adLourrent-inaga- $15.00 FOR S IDE
New Chambers And’ Fraternity Cumming, W. P. 2-B Concord Rd. Right’ Across Frateritity Court 40 Wy Se iene ieaPee re aie eine $22.50 FOR OCT;
Houses Largest And Currie, A. 316 N. Main St. Left Skcond Holise NO ot tant 129 zines are kept at_alltimes in the reading ah
Best Assets Douglasey, Le 204 Concord Rd. Right © Sixtharionse 132 room. and please do not take them up to Mrs. Otto Goodnight
pat EE Douglas, J. M. 136 Concord Rd. Right First House 56J ihe eee nes the dormitories us -Tead New Manaear
GOLF, TENNIS PROVIDED Erwin, E. J. 336 Thompson St. Right First House 128 them, The Y will greatly appreciate the .
aS aaa Fleagle, F. K. 303 Woodlawn Ave. Right Fifth House 114 co6peration of all the students in this. ~
Davidson College has seemingly out- Flucher, H. E. 127 Woodlawn Ave, Left Next to Last House 49W Qu ‘ sibs subssubadiesaiobibeaaie aaa SMIETIIET 9
done itself this past summer in repairing Grey, W. R. 203 N. Main St. Left First House from Shearer Hall 62 7
the grounds and equipment, but these Gwynn, P. H. 2-A Lorimer St. Right Last House 185 Let Us Groom You For The Week-End
‘changes are small in comparison with Harding, C. R. 102 N. Main St. Left Second House from Shearer 68 P Pies Poe apre ° pe
improvements of the last ‘ar years. Hood, F. : 235° Concord Rd. Left Fourth House from Forks 112 20 Years Ka pernence With Davidson Men
Chambers Building itself is, of. course, Lilly, H. T. 217 South St. Left With Dr. J. Wa McConnell 123 NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
the outstanding monument of the prog- Lingle, T. W. 217 Concord St. Left First House at Top of Till 125
ress of the decade. This center of col- Lingle, W. L. 114 N. Main St. Right First House 101 o~ ~ oores prev ecqnocanecenorenorenonenesenesenseenees rave ®
lege activity, despite nimgr. imperfections, Lyon, S. E. 334° N. Main St. Right Second House North of Tank 187
exemplifies the most up-to-date architec- McConnell, J. M. 113 N. Main St. Right Second House from Shearer 6
ture of its type. McConnell, J. W. Infirmary South St. Left Second House South of Theatre 123 Get Your Morning Sleep
The next improvement of importance McGavock, W. G. 337 S. Main St. Right Fourth House from Fork 103 and
is the development of the east area of Mebane, W. N. 125 Woodlawn Ave. Right Third House 134-J ‘
the campus, Less than eight years ago, Minault S. S, 216 Lorimer St. Right Third “House 43 THEN...
the fraternity court was a mass of briars Pfohl, J. C.. 321 Woodlawn Ave. Right Fourth House hp
and bushes interspersed with shrubby Pritchett, N. G. 143 N. Main St. Left | Sixth House from Shearer 213 Come To The Little Pep
Hvndecaiheurumored (neatlon ofcthe “ett Porter, W. L. 226 Lorimer St. Right Second House 147 for Breakfast a
house” of Davidson medical students in Seeibsel) oie rr sires aap sare Third House Below Fraternity Court 57
days of yore. In those days the five fra- Schenck, L. B. 21s South St. Right Second House 17
ternities, Phi Gamma ‘Delta, Pi Kappa Sentelle, M. E. 111 S. Main St. Left Second North, of Theatre 102 “4 LITTLE PEP
Alpha, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Kappa Shewmake, E. I’. 317 Lorimer-St. Left First. House 139 CHARLOTTE DAVIDSON
Sigma, and Kappa Alpha had unbeliey- Thies, O. J., Jr. Chemical Lab. Woodlawn Ave. Right Second House oa Ol 2,
ably small rooms in Old Chambers for Rhett, J. T. feats N. Main St. Right Next to Lyon 156 "~~?
their affairs. A few years later the Cochrane, W. F. Armory S. Main St. Left | First House North of Theatre 156
chapters moved down to Phi Hall, Eu Seifert, C. W. Armory Left | Road Back of Dorm. Row DRUGS SODAS
Hall, Oak, and Elm Row, and more re- Whittle, A. H. 142 Concord Rd. Right Third House 94
cently into rented houses scattered || —— —< : EEE nEERERSRERERE REE A Complete Drug Store
through town, The above directory is given in the above manner for the convenience of the students as the houses have no
Ten years ago there was no golf course, numbers. The direction is taken as going from the campus to the house, “Make Our Store Your Store”
for that area was the location of the 5 ; : ; RELIABLE PRESCRIPTIONS DRUGGIST -
present Concord Road. This road left] which are helpful and stimulating and in-| As yet, not much work has been done |or both of these phases of Y work, see
North Main, passed Dormitory Row and | spiring. Let's all be there next Sunday | along this line this year, but some will] the members of the Cabinet who have WHITE DRUG STORE
the Sieffert home, and wended its way |evening and receive a real benefit from} probably be sent out next Sunday. Also| charge of the work and they will try to .
across the hills and waterways of the| the service! j it is hoped that the Sunday School work | get something for you to do,
golf course. This course is the result DEPUTATIONS: It. is hoped that} will be underway by next Sunday. If} THE Y BUILDING: Included in the SUNDRIES PRESCRIPTIONS
of much effort on the part of the Col-| work on deputations will soon be started.| you are interested in working in either| many improvements made during the

lege and is still being improved and

; e
modernized. t |

The fourteen tennis courts were con-

structed more recently by the College, at

an expense of $8,000. The clay was care- e J '

fully selected so as to make a set of

courts resistant to variable forms of ae OW Cc res ing e
I)

weather. The former tennis courts, few
in number, were located between New
Chambers and Concord Street, and on
the corner opposite the church.

The wall literally binding: the campus,
and extending from the North Gate
down Main Street, Concord Street, and
around to Mrs. N. T. Smith's former
home was. constructed from the rem-
nants of Old Chambers.

It seems from these improvements that
Davidson College was a very different
place a decade ago—a college with very
few of the modern conveniences that we
take as a matter of course. The College
has expended much time and effort in
providing a fit setting for its cultural
activity.

Invitation Received By
College From Kuester

A. standing invitation to make the
Charlotte Chamber of Commerce their
i headquarters was issued to Davidson stu-
dents in a letter recently received from
C. O. Kuester, executive vice-president
of the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce,
located at 123 W. Fourth St. in Char-
lotte.

Quoting Mr. Kuester: “The Charlotte
Chamber of Commerce, as you’ well
know, is exceedingly proud of your in-
stitution, and we always receive genuine
pleasure when we can do anything for
the College or Student Body.”

After wishing the Presbyterian insti-
tution a successful year, Kuester ends
his letter with a postscript, “Only wish I
were young enough to attend there, my-
self.” Kuester ‘has two sons, Faison, of
the Class of '37, C. O. Kuester, Jr., en-
rolled in the class of '38,

Copyright 1934,
The American Tobacco Company.

Prof. George D. Strayer, of Colum-
bia University, advocates the creation of
a federal department of education with
a subsidy ‘of $500,000,000,

A A A A A A A A

Y.M.C.A.
News

: GER Ga Ss GEES Sa a a

VESPERS: The two vesper programs
for the new year have been very fine.
The speakers have been-intensely-inter-
esting and each has had a message of
vital importance to young men. How-
‘ever, the attendance at these meetings has
not been as well as it should be. A fair-
ly large crowd was present at the first |
meeting, but there was a considerable
fall in attendance the past Sunday eve-

ning. The “Y” goes to:a lot of trouble | (13 +) 99
“and expense to secure these men and we It S toasted
should be willing and glad to help out f Vous thveai reteitencaates) Wtialion

by attending these services. Not only
that, but’you will receive thoughts there _ against cough

And that means—Luckies use
only the clean center leaves—

