THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 11, 1934

The PDavidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

Member of

eee Collegiate Press

= 1933 tovtaast) 1934 ==

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
- STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: $2.00 the Col-

C Ten cents per copy;
legiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post S75. a Davidson,
orth Carolina, under the act of March 3

Articles for pebueouon must be in the hands of othe Ek Editors
y 4:00 o'clock m., Monday. Letters to the itor are
welcome, but al if

must be signed. %

ODI _CASALI..... Editor
W. T. JOHNSON. Busi
EDITORIAL STAFF

G. L. GULLETTE Managing Editor
E. F. McPHAIL Managing Editor
B. L. ROSE. Managing Editor
K. D, WEEKS. M ig Editor
Lae HELLINGER. Alumni Editor

WLING PRATT-THOMAS Editorial Writer
5 A. HUNTE: Exch Editor

. B. BAILEY Feature Editor
S. K. EATO Feature Editor
C. S. McCALL ‘eature Editor
L. W. CLARDY A itor
A, F, Sh et A Editor
WwW. M. OMPSON....... A Editor
JACK WILLIAMS, Nig A Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

L. GREEN.. A M
W. _L. SPRUNT. A t M

. R. Bra monnT A M

A. C. WADSWORTH..... me A Manag

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11, 1934

A little work, a little sweating, a few brief, flying
years; a little joy, a little fretting, some smiles and
then some tears; a little resting in the shadow, a
struggle to the height, a futile search for El Dorado,
and then we say Good Night. Some moiling in the
strife and clangor, some years of doubt and debt,
some words we spoke in foolish anger that we would
fain forget; some cheery words we said unthinking,
that made a sad heart light; the banquet with its
feast and drinking—and then we say Good Night.
Some questioning of creeds-and-theories, and judg-
ment of the dead, while God, Who never sleeps or
weartes, is watching overhead; some little laughing
and some sighing, some sorrow, some delight; a
little music for the dying, and then we say Good
Night. —Walt Mason.

ON FOUNDERS’ DAY

Davidson College will celebrate its first
Founders’ Day tomorrow, April 12, commemo-
Jating .the ninety-seventh anniversary of the

+ founding of the college. Davidson was formally
opened on March 12, 1837. What progress has
been made in these ninety-seven years and how
successful have the ideals been upon which the
institution was founded!

The first Founders’ Day will not only be a
celebration of the birthday of the college and
an occasion for speech-making, but it will mark
the realization of years of rapid progress and
great satisfaction. So successfully have the
ideals of Davidson been carried out that today
its reputation from spiritual, educational and
athletic standpoints is unsurpassed.

However, the efforts of those who have gone
before will not be betrayed. The present leaders
of Davidson College are carrying forward the
traditions that have been entrusted to them, and
the building and the general endowment fund
program which has been recently announced is
the latest step in that behalf. This expansion

“program will be formally inaugurated by Found-
ers’ Day celebrations at various alumni meetings
over the country. Three years from now, in the
spring of 1937, when Davidson celebrates its
Centennial, it is hoped that the goal for this pro-
gram will be reached.

With this fact in view Davidson looks to its
Centennial with keen interest, and justly so, be-
cause if this goal is attained it will furnish Da-
vidson College with material equipment on a par
with its educational and spiritual rating which
will undoubtedly make it one of the greatest
schools in the country. —K. D. W.

POSTLUDE

And so with this issue of the Davidsonian “the
old order changeth, yielding place to the staff
of next year.” We are somewhat chagrined to
discover that it is quite difficult to find a suit-
able subject for discussion. There should be'a
stream of thoughts and ideas from which to
choose a topic, but those that we formulate are
cut and dried, trite, andj of ancient design. Thus
we discover, as is the case with the majority of
farewells, that the deep worthwhile expressions
never arise at the moment of parting, but are
born many moments later when the occasion for
their use has passed. Even if they should enter
our minds at. the proper time, they are very
rarely uttered. Sir Walter Raleigh said, “The
shallow murmur, but the deep are dumb.” We
hope that our impotence and incapacity to write
a fitting recegsional will be pardoned on this
score. _

We might’ devote several pages to.a prolonged
and 1 hy retrospective dissertation or we
might be prospective in our outlook, but this has

all been done before. Events have transpired
during the last year that differentiate it from
any other college year, but in the last analysis
the session of 1933-34 might be conveniently
placed five years in the past or five years in the
future. It has been an average college year, and
so it will appear to all except the six hundred
who have exerted their influence and added their
presence during its passing, so that it remains
not 1933-34, but becomes to them one of the
“four priceless years” of college life.

Our work on the Davidsonian this year has
been pleasant, yes, and has also provided us with
some invaluable experience, but we are not sorry
to depart. This statement applies not only to
our newspaper activities, but to our entire col-
lege life. We have marked time for four years
now and we believe that the Senior Class is
happy to vacate. Those of us who have achieved
success, as measured by the undergraduate
world, are undoubtedly eager to pit our talent
and ability against much keener competition.
We want to see if we have been worthy of the
awards we have received. We have spent ample
time in training camp, now we advance to the
firing line. Those who feel that their college
careers have been only average or mediocre wish
to prove their mettle. Perhaps they have not
been rightly judged and wish to redeem or even
avenge themselves. They have an opportunity
to turn over the much-talked-about new leaf.
People will little note nor long remember what
we did at Davidson, but will judge us by our
accomplishments in the days that are to come.

And so we gladly make way for the new re-
gime. May their efforts be crowned with suc-
cess. We gracefully make our exit, bidding you
“Hail and Farewell”! —R.P.-T.

THE ALUMNI JOURNAL

Friday marked the appearance of the first issue
of the “Davidson College Alumni Journal,” edited
by Grier Martin, alumni secretary. The initial
copy consisted of twenty-four pages and was il-
lustrated by cuts of the campus, alumni, and stu-
dents. It was mailed to more than 4,500 David-
son alumni and members of the Senior Class.
This is regarded as a trial edition, and the future
of the “Journal” is dependent upon-the decision
of the trustees in their Commencement meeting.
It is to be hoped that they will vote to continue
publication.

A large number of congratulatory letters have
already been received from alumni and friends

of the college of. praise for the new venture. 4

Herbert F. Taylor, president of the American
Alumni Council, said, “‘The Davidson College
Alumni Journal’ is one of the most attractive
debutantes I have ever seen.”

The editor is indeed to be congratulated on

.his work. We feel that this publication deserves

the co-operation of the student body as a whole.
Not only is such a magazine of inestimable value
in advertising the college and in keeping former
students in touch with their Alma Mater, but it
will increase in value with the years and number
of alumni.

There is not one of us to whom the life of the
“journal” is not a matter of vital concern. It fills
a need which has long been felt on the Hill, and
all loyal sons of Davidson will hope for its sup-
port and continuance.

Here and There

Exactly 640 acres of Michigan State College
land is being drained by a CWA project employ-
ing 65 men.

_ Thirty-five graduates of Marshall College,
Huntington, W. Va., are heads of high schools
in that state.

Dr. Walter Scott Ahearn has been discharged
from his position as president by the board of
trustees of Butler University.

A rifle club has been formed at Hobart College
by 17 undergraduates interested in marksman-
ship.

A fund of $3,000 has been presented to the
College of the City of New York for the relief
of needy students.

A practice court is held regularly by the stu-
dents of the West Virginia University College
of Law to train students in court procedure.

Religious preferences of University of Mich-
igan students are divided among 35 creeds and
denominations, a recent survey conducted by the
Michigan Student Christian Association reveals.

A request of the University of Kentucky zoo-
logy department asks that all’ who have: snakes
send them to the Lexington institution.

A social relations club is being organized by
the students of North Central College for the
development of a““‘useable world cofisciousness.”

NEWS DIGEST

TODAY

Our government moving along with
the rest of the world toward a social-
istic state... .. A new uprising of red
forces all over the continent and this
uprising accompanied by murder and
bloodshed. . . .The growth of an inde-
pendent attitude on the part of gov-
ernments. . . . A new billion dollar
bond issue for the United States to
replace the~fourth~tiberty- loan issue
which is maturing. . .. The era of the
NRA, TVA, CCC, brain trust and
other devices to fight the depression.
. The forgotten man. ... A re-
vival of that time-honored pastime, a
naval armament race between the na-
tions... . Another Jesse James, John
Dillinger, whose exploits are as eagerly
followed as the latest thriller in the

movies. ... An Elysian field where the
T flows thanks to the depres-
sion. . . . Revolution in France and

Austria and. Cuba. . . . The independ-
ence of the Philippines. ... Death as
army fliers carry the mail once again.
. Increased taxes as the govern-
ment goes on a gigantic spending pol-
icy. ... Crime still predominating the
news. ... Man soaring ten miles above
the earth in metal spheres... . A new
anaesthetic and a new anteseptic as
scientists fight the spread of disease.
. Hitler and Mussolini march on.
. Government control in this coun-
try with the railroad executives quak-
ing in their boots. . . . Control of the
St. Lawrence. . .. Nudists. . .. The
Stavisty case and the overthrow of the
French cabinet as a_ result.
Japan still assuming a belligerent atti-
tude and Russia doesn’t seem to mind
it... . Sam Insull cornered in Egypt
after a spectacular voyage and on his
way back to the scene of the crime.
. The flop of conferences, especially
the Geneva disarmament: . .. Reduc-
tion in the value of the dollar... . The
invention of the modern Frankenstein,
a thinking robot. ... Death in the aft-
ernoon, in the morning, and at night
as ships go down, planes crash, trains
are wrecked, cars collide and then the
usual run of floods, earthquakes, and
famines. . . . And life goes on.

TOMORROW

Facing a—new era and a new world
the future is full of doubt and just a
little cloudy. We have reached the
turning point in the history of the
world, today we are as we have always
been, tomorrow we may awake with
a new outlook, a new earth.

The most important tendency, the
predominating drive of our day is so-
cialism. It originated only a few years
ago, now look at Germany, Italy,
Spain, Russia and the others all ex-
perimenting with new forms of gov-
ernment built upon the ruins of the
old. The United States is moving in
this direction. I will not say that it
will become socialistic, but a change in
one direction or another is coming.

We are on the verge of a war that

will make the last one look like a mud
fight. The present tendency no matter
how peaceful you are is arm. The
French are selling gas masks isv the
streets to every citizen. We aré moti-
vated by fear of each other./ We are
suspicious, distrustful and Alighty. It
is coming—the great war, the World
War.
The govefnment is spending
a lot of money fo rid us of the de-
pression—ten billion dollars of it and
this money, i¢ going on the national
debt. It will be up to our generation
to make up this money. Taxes even
today have increased to a great extent
and they will increase more. The fu-
ture looks dark. If we pay ten billion
dollars in taxes. we will be back in
another depression just where we
started from. -The solution for this
problem remains in the future and in
the hands of the youth of today.

.

Taxes.

We are entering the greatest scien-
tific and inventive day in history. The
airplane, the train, the motor car and
the radio will all be wonderfully im-
proved. Television will be here soon
and also cheap electric heat. We will
soon have a mechanical man to do
our work for us. Medical science will
be much improved. The house of the

‘future will be a model of light, ven-

itlation and heat. The food will be
better. We have not yet reached an
end of the road even though it is dark
and new ahead.

Dr. George F. Zook, United States
commissioner of education, will speak
at the Pennsylvania State College
scholarship day, May 12.

An experimental class following the
Oxford system of instruction is being
taught by Prof. R. M. Kain at Au-
gustana College in Sioux Falls, S. D,

Dale Kindness is the name of the
champion boxer of Augustana College.

Pi Delta Alpha Held
Open Meeting Friday

Pi Delta Alpha held its third open
meeting of the year on the night of
Friday, March 6. About sixty men
availed themselves of this opportunity
to hear Dr. Rigdon Dees, distinguished
Greensboro surgeon, lecture on various
interesting diseases and operations. Dr.
Dees was assisted by his laboratory
technician, Mr. George Windham, who
illustrated the lecture with charts and

pictures related to the subject—shown

through an opaque projector.

The pre-medical fraternity plans to
initiate the six men pledged within the
next week. A

Sigma Pi Sigma Holds
Election of Officers

Sigma Pi Sigma, natonal honorary
physics fraternity, held an election of
officers Monday night, the results of
which are as follows: W. M. Bogart,
elected president; J. M. Douglas, vice-
president; A. L, Kuhn, secretary-treas-
urer, B. L. Moore discussed “Tele-
vision; or Application of the Cathode
Ray Tube to Television.”

At the previous meeting several top-
ics of interest were discussed by mem-
bers. Al Kuhn read a paper on the
Diesel engine. Jake Morrow spoke on
the subject of air and air foil. The
suggestion was made to consider hav-
ing an open meeting next time. Prof.
H, E. Fulcher, of the physics depart-
ment, gave an interesting discussion
of Einstein's theory of relativity and
also spoke on “absolute zero.”

LITTLE WILL INSPECT
LOCAL R. O. T. C. UNIT

(Continued from Jage 1)
Jackson. The student members are
year advanced course. At 2:10 Friday
afternoon, Colonel Little will inspedt
the battalion on the field in the fol-
lowing order: Physical drill,

tactical inspection, and maneuver.

The battalion has recently been is-
sued new uniforms and a good showing
is expected of the individuals as well as
the battalion as a whole,

Major John T. Rhett, in charge of
the Davidson R. O. T. C., has issued
a general invitation to the public to
be present at the exercises and inspec-
tion tobe held on the freshman field
bs 2:15 o'clock Friday afternoon, April
27th.

NEW MEN CHOSEN TO
FILL VACANT OFFICES

(Continued from page 1)
and is now teaching at Morgan School,
Petersburg, Tenn. While at Davidson
he was an outstanding student and
leader, having been a member of the

Student Council and the Y. M. C. A.

Cabinet. He is a native of Franklin
Tennessee.

Professor Kimbrough plans to attend
Columbia University next year to take
up the study of higher mathematics.
Professor Goldiere will go to Yale Uni-
versity during his leave of absence.

Dr, Kenneth J, Foreman will return
to Davidson next year and resume his
duties in the Bible department, after
having spent the past year in the Yale
Divinity School.

LINGLE OUTLINES
BUILDING PROGRAM

(Continued from page-1)
3. For upkeep of buildings
4. General endowment

200,000
esaates 5,000,000

——___..

Total for endowment ~---$5,600,000

Total for buildings and en-
dowment
Dr. Lingle closes his article in the
Journal with this plea to the alumni:
“When we come to think of it, there
are single individuals who have given
to single institutions more than this
whole program calls for. We cannot
hope to make a widespread, general
campaign. Yet every friend of the
college may have a part in the Cen-
tennial program, Each one can give
according to his ability.”

On Other Campuses

parade, }

The chant of the Phi Beta Kappas,
according to Georgia’s “Red and
Black”:

Great and small
Admire you
But none at all
Will hire you.
. Ain’t it the truth!

The University of Louisville Cardinal
says that the agricultural department
at Wisconsin University is conducting
an experiment to see whether intoxi-
cated hens will lay more prolifically
than sober ones.

—_———__

At a recent meeting of the “T” Club
at Tulane University, it was recom-
mended that intercollegiate baseball be
1e-adopted at Tulane on as large a
scale as possible, and that awards be
given a picked group of players in the
event that baseball remains an intra-
mural activity. This recomendation
was made in an effort to further uni-
versity athletics.

With 903 students registered, Wake
Forest has the largest enrollment this
year ever recorded in its 100 years of
service. The student body is 11 per
cent larger than last year. Of this
group 828 students come from N..C.,,
and'75 representatives from out of the
state. These last representatives rep-
resent 20 states and China.

At Washington College the co-eds,
after a stiff fight, were granted permis-
sion to smoke in classes.. Next day,
several came to one class smoking
corn-cob pipes. The professor main-
tained his composure, and ordered that
all windows be kept closed. In a short
time the deah gals began to excuse
themselves rather informally. The in-
firmary immediately became co-ed-
conscious.

Roll your pants up! A frosh at
Penn State gave as his excuse for be-
ing behind in his outside reading that
it had been too cold to sit on the porch
to read! Members of a certain Ad-
vanced United States History (6)
Class please note!

In a vote held to determine the indi-
vidual in the world today most impor-
tant from a news point of view, stu-
dents of journalism at N. Y. U. umani-
mously named as their first choice
Franklin D. Roosevelt. Second place
went to Hitler, with 99 votes, and
Lindbergh was third with 91 votes.
Greta Garbo polled 34 votes!

The week’s most suggestive head-
line: “Open House, Will Present Co-ed
Exhibit”!

At the University of Southern Cali-
fornia,..when a man catches a man
cheating on a writ or exam, he starts
stomping his feet. The whole class
begins the stomping until the cheater
stops his foul tactics. New dance step?
The “Cheater’s Stomp’?

is this for an All-American

How
Orchestra? Suggested by the Sewanee
Purple:
Trumpets ~222- 02sec Hal Kemp's
Trombones -.-------- Glen Gray’s
Drums -. --------Fred Waring's

--Cab Calloway’s
Duke Ellington’s
ings 2o Sse ees Rubinoff’s
----Wayne King’s
Se seeps Guy Lombardo’s
2 Se eee Jan Garber

Piano

And may we add as vocalists, Carmen
Lombardo and Eddie Stone? ,

A small reproduction of the bust of
General Lejeune, their very popular
superintendent, is to be incorporated
as a new feature in the design of this
year’s third class rings at V. M. I.

H. C. (Curley) Byrd, vice-president
and athletic director at Maryland,
plans to bring before the Southern
Conference meeting next December a
proposal_for _complete—withdrawal of
varsity teams from S. C. tournaments
and substitution of intramural teams
instead.—(The Virginia Tech.)

Attention!

Students...

Order Your Personal Engraved

Now. Twenty Styles t
Pick From And

A SPECIAL PRICE FOR
DAVIDSON STUDENTS

Bill Johnson—203 Watts

Standard Printing Company

@ Garland Coure -

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

