THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 10, 1934°

The PDabidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915.

Member of

Associated Eolleginte Pres
SS

“== 1933 ‘(aaron TovERAet) 1934 =

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
.Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION $2.00 the Col-

RATES: Ten cents per copy;
legiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office f tA
North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd,

Articles for publication must be in the hands of Managing Editors
by. 4:00 te ate m., Monday. Letters to the Editor are

ications intended for publication

must be igtear

Editor
M

ODI CASALI oses
W. T. JOHN

G. L. GU Managing Editor
E. F. M anaging Editor
B. L. RO! anaging Editor
K. D. WE anaging Editor
JACK HE ‘f < .--.-Alumni Editor
C. E. NORVELL, Sports Editor
RAWLING PRA o---+2----0-------Editorial Writer
. A. HUNTER Editor
b. B. BAILEY Feature Editor
S. K. EA ature Editor
S. C. HE Feature Editor
(ote - Yi (5 07,4 0) PR RE eee eer Feature Editor
D. W. HOLLINGSWORTH, JR.-.-..---------------—---- Review Editor
L. W. CLARDY. ~<A i Editor
A, F. SCHENC A Editor
W._M.. THOMPSO: uses A Editor
JACK WILLIAMS, Ni A Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
G, istant Business Manager
Ww. stant Manager
LOR... istant
} A ¢. WADSWORTH. Assistant i M r
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 10, 1934

All higher motives, ideals, conceptions, sentiments
in a man are of no account if they do not come for-
ward to strengthen him for the better discharge of
the duties which devolve upon him in the ordinary
affairs of life —Henry Ward Beecher.

Didepest sympathy is extended Registrar
F. W. Hengeveld, and Students A. M. Fai-

son, W. D. Herring, and H. M. Ray in their
recent bereavements. ~

BACK AGAIN

Although we have been back at school for
scarcely a week, the time to most of us is im-
measurable unless we seriously contemplate the
date of our return and deduce the actual length
of our being back harness. The Christmas
holidays have faded into the hazy realm of rec-
ollection and it is not easy for us to realize that
such a short time has elapsed since those days
when we stayed awake all night and slept until
two on the following afternoon, Remarkable in-
deed is the ability possessed by human beings to
change from one situation and mode of living
into another and to readjust themselves success-
fully to the changed environment in‘a twinkling
of an eye. Ped

Remarkable also is the amazing rapidity with
which a student can return to the same rut and
routine of the pre-holiday period. And it is in
this fact that danger lurks for many. Unsatis-
factory scholarship in one or more subjects has
been the failing for many of us, especially in the
freshman class. We have intended to do better,
but days have slipped into weeks and weeks into
months and there has been no visible improve-
ment. There are others who have flirted with
“flunking,” barely making passing grades. To
these two groups, we wish to say that the time
too short unless we apply
great effort during the next few weeks, before
and during examinations. The majority of men
flunk at least one course while they are in col-
lege. Follow the line of least resistance if you
will and follow the crowd, but remember that
it is possible to pass if you are willing, not to
make any great sacrifice, but to simply put forth
an intelligent amount of effort. Forget the bull-
session for several weeks, imagine Charlotte is
a hundred miles away, cut the show attendance
down, and whenever you sit around and do noth-
ing in particular, think of the time during Spring
Holidays when you will sit around and do plenty
in the way of preparation of re-examinations.
Now is the easiest time to pass, now is the
easiest time to pull averages up, now is the time
to hold your own. It is not a question of “Can
you do it?” but “Will you do it?”

is short—entirely

You will never regret hard work now. Em-
barrassing moments when your parents get hold
of you and of your report can be avoided.” Self-
respect, confidence, and. satisfaction can be
gained. Do not have to’ be “back again” when
other fellows go vacationing in the spring and
summer. And now it’s up to you!

—R. P.-T.

DON’T LET YOURSELF BE BURIED
“A farmer had an old blind horse which had
outlived his usefulness. One day he fell into an
old well. The farmer looked in and saw him
standing deep in the water. There seemed to be

fo way to get him out, as he was quite useless,
and the well abandoned and dangerous, the farm-
er ordered his men to fill up the. well and leave
the horse buried in it.

“The men began to shovel dirt into the well.
But the horse was not willing to be buried.
When the dirt began to pour in upon him, he
began to shake it off and tread it under foot.
As the well was filled up the horse came nearer
and nearer to the surface, and when the men
finished their task the horse walked out into the
pasture,

“The very things which conspire to bury the
lion-hearted these days, are used by them to
lift themselves out of difficulties and into the
light. The very last thing one should do is to
agree to stay dead and buried.”

The above is not ours, but was taken from
the columns of another newspaper. We reprint
it here because of the lesson it carries.

A WISE STEP OR NOT

“To be or not to be,” that is once more the
question here at Davidson College, many years
after the death of its illustrious author. In real-
itv, to be clearer, our question is “To join or
not to join the Southern Conference” (that is
if we’re invited, of course).

It is not my purpose to take sides on this ques-
tion, but merely to present the facts on both
sides to the Davidson student body, and let the
boys hash it out among themselves.

There are many advantages to be had if Da-
vidson should ally herself with the Conference
teams. For example, this year we had a player
of great ability, rated by his coach as better than
All-American Beattie Feathers, yet the best he
could do was receive honorable mention on one
All-American team, and pick up a few sectional
honors. “He was entirely overlooked when the
All-Southern pickers whipped into action. Were
we affiliated with the Southern Conference, there
is little doubt but what he would have been prom-
inently mentioned on All-American selections,
and landed a berth on the All-Southern,

Another advantage of belonging to the~Con-
ference is that it encourages a school to play a
representative schedule, as a certain number of
Conference-teams—must be met.

On the other hand, should Davidson join the
Conference, the glory that comes to us, the un-
derdog, when we knock off some of these pow-
ers of the mighty Conference, would come to
us no more, and a Davidson victory over a Con-
ference opponent would ‘be no more than what
was to be expected. :

As for playing a representative schedule, the
1934 Wildcat schedule lists games with four
Southern, Conference opponents, and past sched-
ules have listed that many or more, which is all
we would have should we join the Conference.
In addition to that we have games with Army,
and William and Mary, which would certainly
be classed as “big time” organizations.

And last, would it be wise to play even as big
a schedule as we play? Would it not be better
to stay out of the Conference, and lay off schools
like Duke and Carolina, and substitute Washing-
ton and Lee, Richmond, Furman, or other schools

of our own size in their places? Those are mere- -

ly questions for thought, and the writer would
appreciate suggestions in the form of an editorial
answer to see what can be done about this prob-
lem that confronts us.

Of course, this is purely on a supposition that
we are extended a bid, because we haven’t even
been asked to join yet you know.

=CoNn IR,

Here and There

Almost one-fourth of the 1,853 women stu-
dents registered at University of Nebraska are
employed in some kind of outside work, accord-
ing to Miss Amanda Hepner, dean of women.

Yale alumni are about to abandon the policy
of having a former Yale player as coach, Harry
Kipke, Michigan grid mentor, or T. A. D. Jones,
Howard’s brother, may coach the Eli team next
year.

American and English students may study un-
der “Red Professors” at the First Moscow Uni-
versity’s 1934 Summer School. Six weeks’
courses ranging in subject matter from “Polit-
ical Economies of the Reconstruction Period” to
“Crime and Punishment in the Soviet Union,”
ten in all, will’ be given in English by the fore-
most teachers of the U. S. S. R.

An examination at the University of Missis-
sippi asked for the principal parts of any Latin
verb. Upon one paper was written: “Slippeo,
slipere, falli, bumptus.” The returned paper had
these words: “Falio, failere, fluncto, suspendum.”

Heat will be turned off in nearly all the build-
ings on the main campus at the University of
Minnesota on Sunday and holidays when no
classes are scheduled and it is estimated that
$5,000 will be saved through this action.

NEWS DIGEST

Honor

The old adage of “honor among
thieves” has been generally accepted
but the idea that criminals should have
an honorable attitude even towards
their confinement is almost unheard of.
However, this has always been the
case as regards -the Kilby prison ot
Alabama. Three hundred and thirty
prisoners were freed there on good
behavior for Christmas holidays at
home and all of them except four kept
their word and returned at. the time
set.

Congress Meets

The long-awaited meeting of Con-
gress, the Congress which has caused
so much discussion and argument, has
come at last. The crisis is here.
Whether we escape from the depres-
sion or not depends upon the actions
of the present Congress. This meet-
ing promises to be the most important
Congressional assembly in years.

The President's message was an in-
dication of just how serious the pres-
ent task was to be. In his message
President Roosevelt laid down the
most radical policy ever presented to
a Congress of the United States. His
policy was virtually one of Socialism.
The government is to have a hand in
the production and labor conditions of
practically every business. The national
debt is to be raised higher than any
point in history. The nation is to be
completely reorganized. The policy of
“laissez-faire” is gone, dead “and
buried, and government control of in-
dustry reigns in its place,

Flood

California, the Sunshine State, re-
ceived a heavy blow to its reputation
last week when the rain suddenly be-
gan pouring down in torrents and did
not stop until almost fifty persons had
lost their lives in the flood which fol-
lowed. The flooded portion occupied
a large area in the vicinity of Los
Angeles and the major number of
deaths was in this region.

Default
The yearly occurrence of France's
default in regards to the American

war debt has just been passed, It is
getting to be quite a habit for France
to pat its debts and the other nations
of «the world, especially the United
States, are becoming riled at such ac-
tion. The House of Representatives
applauded when Britten, Republican of
Illinois, called the debtor nation a,
cheater and suggested that an embargo
be placed upon the light wines im-
ported from France.

Arms Parity

Sir John Simon, British foreign sec-
retary, frankly says that he wishes to
give Germany arms parity. He wishes
to make the German army equal to
those of the other strong nations of
the World. He believes that the at-
tempts of the Allies to reduce the
strength of the German army is only
breeding more strife. He and all other
statesmen are convinced that a new
war in Europe would hurt everybody.

Drys

The dry leaders have organized for
the next fight. With the assertion that
the country stands morally disgraced
by its defeat at the hands of the-re-
pealists, the National Temperance and
Prohibition Council took its stand and
called on all the foes of liquor to fight
its traffic. The council has just com-
pleted a merger of thirty-four other
temperance organizations and plans to
fight the traffic of liquor to the last
ditch.

Navies

Experts fear that there is danger of
a~huge naval building race between
now and the opening of the 1935 naval
conference in Washington. Special
emphasis was laid on building by the
United States and Japan. This gloomy
portrayal was made in a report by
Deputy Vascello of the Italian navy,
The report went on to say that thete
are various naval controversies be-
tween France and Great Britain, Brit-
ain and the United States, the United
States and Japan, and finally, between
France and Italy. Of all these, Dep-
uty Vascello believes that the one be-
tween the United States and Japan is
the worst and the one most likely to
turn ‘into a building race.

Cuba

The storm over Cuba is beginning
to gather force again. The heated tem-
peraments which have already deposed
two rulers in the past four months are
at it again and this time they are try-
ing to break the rule of a third man,
President Grau San Martin. Riots and
mass assemblies have occurred and it
looks as if more are to come and’*come
with increasing violence.

Fred Waring Leaves

-ing the coming week, once on Friday,

Old Gold Program

New Year Sees Other Changes
in Radio Programs

F By Bug Barringer

Old Gold has pulled the first mis-
take of the year and has let Fred
Waring and his glee club go. Ted
Fiorito and his band from the Pacific
Coast has been signed to take War-
ing’s place on the air. Maybe this is
a break for us listeners after all, ‘cause
Waritig will probably start broadcast-
ing more than once a week. He de-
serves more and more time on the air.
Whoever gets him on theif program
will get one of the most promising of
the younger orchestra leaders and one
that has plenty of satisfied listeners.
Until February 7, Waring will still be
heard at 10 o'clock over WBT.

The Mills Brothers, which were only
signed for three guest . appearances,
will still come on with Bing Crosby
each Monday night at 8:30 over the
Columbia System. Gus Arnheim and
his ace band from movieland have been
signed to appear on this program till
Bing leaves the Pacific Coast in Feb-
ruary. This won't be the first time
that Bing and Gus worked together;
they made a series of popular records
a few years back that made Crosby
famous.

Next Sunday night on the Chase and
Sanborn hour, Rubinoff and his omni-
present violin will celebrate the sign-
ing of a new contract for the fourth
year. This will be an all-request pro-
gram.

Rubinoff and don’t forget his violin
have only’ played ft one sponsor dur-
ing his three years in radio. A single
audition won him a contract which
has beén renewed three times.

Last. Thursday night the announcer
talked for a few minutes on how a
certain brand of cigarettes would not
affect the nerves, then the orchestra
played the current favorite “Got the
Jitters.” The Camel Caravan puts on
one of the best shows on the air with
Glen Gray and his Casa Loma orches-°
tra, Do, Re, Mi and Irene Taylor,
They can be heard every Tuesday and
Thursday nights at 10 o’clock over
CBS.

The Pickens Sisters—Helen, Jane,
and Patti—have returned from the
West, Coast from making pictures and
are now on the ether waves every
Wednesday night from WJZ and its
associated stations. The Pickens girls
all hail from Georgia and all three are
pretty brunettes. They have been
singing that smooth harmony together
sincé grammar school days.

Tomorrow afternoon at 1:15 Billy
Sunday will speak from New York
over CBS. This is the first time that
Sunday has been to New York in sev-
enteen years, The famous evangelist
is now conducting a series of revivals
there.

Ted Fiorito, whose band succeed$
Fred Waring’s on the Old Gold series
February 7, is thé coitiposer of the
“Unfinished Symphony.” He started
working on it at the age of 19 and he
is still laboring over it.

LARGE PERCENTAGE OF
STUDENTS MAKE PLEDGES

(Continued from page 1)
paid, and during the next few weeks
a concentrated drive will be made on
collections,

Part of the money was used for
relief work during the holidays,-being
administered—to—the--workers~in~ the
neighboring mill district through the
Davidson Unity Church.

WILDKITTEN CAGE TEAM
TO MEET CENTRAL HIGH

The Davidson freshman basketball
team will meet a strong quintet from
Central High in Charlotte twice dur-

January 12, and once on Tuesday, Jan-
uary 16. Both games will be played
in the Central High gymnasium in
Charlotte.

On Other Campuses

Virginia

Secretary Ickes, Chairman of the
Public Works Administration, an-
nounced yesterday that the PWA
Board has approved a loan grant of
$379,000 to the University of Virginia
for a new engineering building. One-
third of this amount is an outright

gift and the other two-thirds is a
loan.
The announcement came as a sur-

prise since Secretary Ickes had pre-
viously announced that the State of
Virginia had received all the money to
which it was entitled. The $379,000
was a part of $1,2000,000 allotted yes-
terday for public works in Virgniia.

Ashland
Editorials have been abolished in the
Ashland College paper because of the
belief that the editor’s ideas are no
better than those of the student. body
and that they do not represent the
policy of the paper.

Louisiana Tech
Versatile, this Mae West. The lady
with the “Come up to see me some-
times” complex has been chosen to
be judge of the. girls who make up
the beauty section of the Lagniappe,
Louisiana Tech annual.

Louisiana

The aeronautical faculty of the
Louisiana State University this year
consists of 41 members, all except two
of whom are members of the regular
staff of the university, This is un-
doubtedly what some term “Higher
Education”!

Harvard
Harvard University owns enough
football equipment to outfit six thou-
sand men,
Prince Toumaneff, once a general in
the Russian Imperial Army, is libra-
rian at Harvard University.

V. M. I.

Beginning at 8:30 p. m. Friday, Jan-
uary 19, Station WSM of Nashville,
Tenn., will broadcast a program fea-
turing V. M. I, This entertainment
will constitute part of a radio series
which will be offered twice weekly.
It will be sponsofed by the National
Life and Accident Insurance Company,
Inc., of Nashville.

The broadcast purposes to bring the
leading colleges and universities of
America before the public. It will be
made up of bits of history, dramatic
incidents, medleys of college songs,
ete., concerning these schools.

Tufts

Look over this experiment complet-,
ed at Tufts recently; improve on it if
you can,

An element—Woman,

Symbol—Member of the human fam-
ily,

Occurrence—Can be found anywhere
man exists. Seldom occurs in free na-
tive state. Quality depends on state
in which it is found.

Physical properties—All sizes and
colors. Always appears in disguised
condition. Usually covered with coat
of paint or a film of powder. Boils
at nothing and may freeze at any mo-
ment,

Chemical properties—Extremely ac-
tive. Possesses great affinity for gold,
silver, platinum, and precious stones
of all kinds. Violent reaction when
left alone by men. Great ability to
absorb all kinds of expensive foods at
all times. Sometimes yields to pres-
sure. Some turn green (envy) when
placed near better appearing samples.
Ages very rapidly. Fresh variety has
magnetic properties. Highly explosive
and likely to be dangerous in inexpe-
rienced hands,

PRICHETT ATTENDS
CHICAGO ASSEMBLY

(Continued from page 1)
versities, among which were speeches
by the chancellor of the University of
Kansas and the vice-president of Notre
Dame.

Ps mm NA TTR 3

STATIONERY

Printing of all Types

NT

CALLING CARDS

FRATERNITY PAPERS

PROGRAMS

at Reasonable Rates

HHH

= See BILL JOHNSON

203 Watts %

@ Garland Court .

Pa TTA

Standard Printing Company

CHARLOTTE, N. C. e

AAA

