THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 3, 1934

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded by the Class of 1916

MEMBER

tiated Gollegia

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

]
SUBSCRIPTION RATES ae

Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 8rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION
must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m.,
Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communica-
tions intended for publication must be signed.

K. D. WEEKS . . 4 3s 6s 5 6 8 5
J. A.C. WADSWORTH ....

Editor
Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

Managing Editor

Pact Haran -.- Managing Editor
Tom MarcHANT Managing Editor
VOMINGAVWIALKER acesec ose. Ll oo eee Managing « Editor
HARVEY -GUuASS) coll kclocclebeecescecl Managing Editor
Lamont Brown - -Sports Editor
Enip Bowers -.-. xchange Editor
CARLYLE Lewis) -- eature Editor
Scorty MecLrop —- Feature Editor
G. L. Guiierre --, ssociate Editor
Bich OMCPRATL sulscccuyeusacsuuaaeoacuand Associate Editor
BreleROskecucvunuucaunuesumee get ueacapes Associate Editor

Jack HELLInce Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
J Dic GORLEN cucccauaccoccccccuarawac) {sst. Business Mgr.
abuehaccoucwscuce seeeuie Asst. Business*M gr.
st, Business Mgr.
“lsst. Business Mgr.
Sewesludicucwsacesy Asst, Business Mgr.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1934

Read not to contradict and confute, nor-to believe
and take for grantéd, nor to find talk and discourse;
but to weigh and consider,

PARAGRAPHICS

The football game with State last Saturday night
in Greensboro was an unusually clean one. ‘There
Was only one penalty imposed, a five yard loss for
off sides. The»Wildcats played their usual clean
and scrappy brand of ball and the state players co-
Operated quite satisfactorily in the same manner.

Our student body President, “Skip” Brown. cer-
tainly drove home the objective of his speech in
chapel the other morning. We believe that the per-
son guilty of causing all the disturbance between
East and West dormitories last Friday night was
sufficiently punished by this speech and that there
will not be a recurring of this sort of thing. “Skip”
has also done some good announcing at the games.
His good work has resulted in much favorable com-
ment not only by students but by outsiders also.

We believe that our school song, “O Davidson”,
would get a much better response from the students
and would be much more effective if it was not
played so many times during a game. This sugges-
tion is not intended as an aspersion on school spirit,
but only an opinion that it is not necessary to play
the song so frequently as has been the case in the
first two games.

The cheering at the State game was quite grati-
fying and came up to the old standard. The game
Was a most colorful one as far as school spirit was
concerned. Cheer leader Warren and his assistants
performed well in their role.

RADIO PRIVILEGE
UP TO STUDENTS

The radio situation is one that has aroused much
interest of late among the students, and it is also
one that is being watched very closely. A very time-
ly appeal came fromthe, president of the student
body the other day in chapel urging all students
that had sets in the rooms to be careful and con-
siderate while operating them. In this same an-
nouncement, it was also stated that if heed was not
taken the matter would be taken out of our hands
and the administration would take definite steps) to-
ward a satisfactory plan.

About six weeks before school was out last year
and at the request of many students, a petition was
drawn up and submitted to the administration by the
student council asking that radios be allowed in the
dormitories. As a result of this, the request was
granted stating very clearly, however, that the new
ruling would be put on probation, the final outcome
pending upon the results and codperation received
during this period. The trial was considered suc-
cessful until in one or two specific instances students

failed to operate their radios in moderation, whereas

others were disturbed and immediately made known
their complaint.

The integrity of this privilege was again ques-
tioned by the executive committee, but it was de-

cided that it be given another trial and the period of
probation run over into this year. The probation
period is still young, but we feel like it has been
satisfactory, especially so since the student body met
concerning this matter in chapel several days ago.

Surely, men, we can govern ourselves in a matter
ofthis kind. It is quite possible to get the maximum
amount of enjoyment out of our radios without play-
ing them so they can be heard in the next dormitory
or even in the next room. We can also_be-conside-
rate of those who are more sensitive to this kind of
disturbance than others, and especially can we co-
6perate during study hours and review periods.

We should be able to appreciate this privilege
without having to be constantly warned and remind-
ed not to abuse it. It is a privilege that we should
have had all along. However, we have not been able
to control and govern ourselves in the matter.

This editorial is not written as a reproach against
radio disturbance, but on the contrary, to urge the
students to continue in the spirit of consideration and
coéperation that has prevailed during the past sev-
eral weeks and as a result keep and enjoy the use
of them in our rooms.

FRESHMEN AND EXTRA-
CURRICULA ACTIVITIES

To members of the. Freshman class who are be-
ginning their college course with the hope of enjoy-
ing as much as possible the friendships and contacts
available therein; who are anxious to seize oppor-
tunities to develop their capacities for leadership and
initiative ; and who desire to know that they are be-
ing of service to Davidson, these words of advice
are humbly, yet earnestly offered.

We believe that possibly there are some Fresh-
men of this type who are at present puzzled by cer-
tain aspects of an’environment to which they are
strangers; who are, perhaps, feeling a little “un-
necessary’ on a campus in which they are not, seem-
ingly, of great importance; and who are hesitating
uncertainly in deciding how to best go about laying
the foundations for a successful college career; and
it is with these considerations in mind that we wish
to say a few words of recommendation as to going
out for extra-curricula activities.

It is not in the least our intention to minimize the
importance of studies in college, yet we are con-:
vinced that these activities have gained and are hold-
ing their place on the campus only because both the
faculty Y&nd student body have recognized that in
them is real value, the pursuit of which is well-worth
a substantial allotment of time. There are different
activities for almost every type of student, from the
potential poet to the high-powered salesman—from
the editorial staffs of the publications, for those in-
terested in journalistic work, to the business staffs,
and athletic managerships for those more inclined
toward the things of the business world. :

We are of the opinion that such activities are es-

pecially designed to aid in inspiring the Freshman .

with genuine interest in his school, in affording him
the assurance that he does constitute a vital unit on
the campus; and we believe that if they are wisely
indulged in, they will prove an excellent antidote
for Freshman homesickness, and Senior regrets.

R. H. SMITH.

COLLEGE ENROLLMENTS
ON THE INCREASE

This fall finds college and university enrollments
rising, and for the first time since the scholastic year
1929-30.

Does the fact of more students matriculating this
autumn’ provide definite evidence of returning pros-
perity? ‘The answer must be that it is a sure indi-
cator of better times, even if a reservation is called
for to take account of federal-and local aid, in one
form or the other, to students working their way
through college. It must be true that parents have
more money this year to spend on education for their
children.

But these larger college rolls seem to present testi-
mony of something finer—a spirit in youth that can
look into the yawning abyss of world-wide economic
and social disaster without losing its faith and cour-
age. if

These men and women have seen classes just
ahead of them graduate from high school or college
to take their places, not-in the professions and in-
dustry, but in the ranks of the unemployed.

Youth has been and is still being hardly dealt with
in this confused era, which seems io be the slow
breaking up of one historical epoch in preparation
for another. Yet in one respect youth is fortunate
above its elders. For youth itself is a sort of hall-
mark for the faith and courage which continue to
fight when older discretion is perhaps prudently con-
ceding the probabilities of defeat, and looking for a
convenient place to lay down arms.

—Asheville Times.

Named in honor of the Rev. John Harvard, a Puritan,
Harvatd University (Cambridge, Mass.) is the oldest in-
stitution of higher education in the United States, being
founded in 1636.

Officers, faculty members, and employees of the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia) are now being paid
an additional 3 1-4 per cent of their salaries to compensate

them for cuts taken last year. _ ,

“SELECTED PAPERS

PHINEAS SPOON.”

The apostles of “new era” internation-
alism lay much emphasis on Science as
the most potent of forces working toward
world unity. The erstwhile barriers of
time and space are fast becoming imma-
terial. °

All of this is an indisputable fact. The
progress of Science and the improvement
of invention have given us all manner of
machinery which cuts across frontiers so
that the great law of cause and effect has
been extended to operate over an inter-
dependent world.

To say that technical genius has facili-
tated intertiational transportation, com-
munication, and economic interdepend-
ence is one thing. To claim that by these
innovations Science is remaking the
world and paving the way to international
unity is quite another. The first is
prima facie; the second is an hypothesis
built upon—the supposition that Science
has a virtue which I am not prepared to
accord it.

After all, machines no matter how per-
fect are no more than means to certain
ends. When Science has perfected the
machine, its responsibility ends. From
this point the machine becomes a_ tool
for good work or bad, constructive or
otherwise according to the mind which
handles it. As@ result, Science considered
as the author of technical convenience
holds no vested interest in the use to
which its creations are put. We can no
more canonize the creator of dynamite
because it dispatches the menace of
threatening ice-jams°than we can crucify
him because his handiwork rains death
on belligerent parties to war. Science
plays no favorites. It is responsible for
cause.

The express steamer and the radio are
marvellous inventions. As such they are
the product of scientific genius. By vir-
tue of the facilities offered by the first,
I can speed to Europe in less then five

days. My newspaper reports an event
almost simultaneously with its occur-
rance because wires flashed the word,

lightning presses registered it, and rapid
transportation placed it in my hands.

In view of the fact that the world is
now so small, it is easy to conclude like
the “premrture international enthusiasts
that Science is bringing us into an inti-
mate world unity unmatched by anything
of the past. :

Each year thousands of
tourists go to Europe.

American
Decreased costs
of transportation and augmented speed
m ke it possible for the average man to
actually see a world which must have
been a remote vaguery to those in better
financial circumstances a hundred years
before. It is true enough that Science
has transported him into the midst of
other peoples, but Science cannot make
an internationalist of him. Whether or
not the experience ficilitates internation-
al understanding will depend entirely
upon the thinking of the traveller.

It is my guess that the average tourist
in a foreign society m: kes superficial and
shallow evaluations on the spot. A single
unfortunate experience at the hands of
an enterprising merchant where he finds
or feels that he has been grossly over-
charged will convineg}him that the coun-
try harbours a race of “thieves”. He is
sensitive to foreign ididsyncracies and
customs at variance to his own. Unor-
ientated, he is thrown violently against an
alien culture. These, of course, are lit-
tle but to the average mind they leave
impressions not easily dispelled. They
work upon the unwary tnind to create a
feeling of discomfort, a sensation of be-
ing “out of place”.

Unless great mental discipline is exer-
cised, the holiday mind is easy prey
to prejudice, and bit by bit, perhaps im-
perceptibly, a defence resistance is built
up against this society which so “passes
understanding”. In this event, Science
has brought the shallow minded tourist
to a place where he sees and feels with
his own senses the fact that he differs
from his foreign cousins. These inherent
differences are accentuated by his failure
to toler: ntly account for them, It is my
belief that the average tourist senses a
peculiar feeling of relief on recrossing
the foreign border. On his return to his
natural “habitat” among his own kind and
familiar institutions he is altogether,
satisfied with his lot, more positive than
ever that his is the best of all possible
nations.

If this argument be not too presump-
tious, then Science can’ be said to be
making nationalists out of many folks
as fast as it can move them on its boats.

—PHINEAS Spoon,

C_OMPASSING

By Scorry McL£op

Now that the Wolfpack has van-
quished the Wildcats, and this year’s
crop of debutantes has bloomed forth in
Raleigh, and the big week-end is over,
there is nothing to talk or write about
except pest events and the coming Cadet
tilt.

In Greensboro

Nearly five hundred enthusiastic sup-
porters of FELIX, a diminutive but cun-
ning and American feline, were on hand
to try to boo away the “big bad wolf.”
In spite of the outcome, we feel that
Davidson is fully satisfied with the team,
the coaches, and the way that the players
showed up Saturday night.

Out at the Big Greensboro Carnival,
George Mathis and Henry Eve aided a
barkster to earn his deily bread; while
at the same time they themselves rapidly
approached a condition of bankruptcy.
A couple of SAE'S sucked in. ‘We didn't
see Preacher Martin and Harris Barks-
dale in Davidson Sunday either,

Skip Brown made several very val-
u:ble contacts in the girl college city;
foremost among them was Joe, the shoe
shine negro at the O. Henry hostelry.
Joe and Skip, presenting a striking ‘con-
trast in amazing reticence and abridged
intelligence on the one hand, and ver-
bosity and extraordinary intellectual ca-
pacity on the other hand, became ac-
quainted with ease and were soon ex-
changing witticisms to the amazement
and consternation of us plebian loiterers.
The conversation ran along this line:

SKIP: Which aggregation will
achieve gratification at the eventuality
of the nocturnal gridiron skirmish be-
tween the wily wolves and the ferine
felines ?

JOE: Does you all want black or
white polish on these here brown shoes?

SKIP: The interrogation is imma-
terial, irrelevant and inconsequential.

LOITERER: eHe means to shut up
about the shoe shine and tell him who
is going to win between Davidson and
State tonight, Joe.

JOE: I don’t know, sah; but I is a
hettin’ man on them feetball games, all
tight, sah. Where does you all think I
ought to put my money?

LOITERER: Congratulations! You
might give me some, However, | would
strongly advise you to put it in the bank.
Or back in your sock.

SKIP: You gentlemen discourse in
conundrums. Have the propitiousness to
respond to my initial interrogation, Jo-
seph!

JOE: Yas sah, I is through now. Ten
cents, sah.

SKIP: Voila. Cheerio.

And so Skipper got his shoe shine and
doubtless the shine boy, Joe, is still
st nding in awed amazement in the
basement of the O. Henry.

ly, the word of

OUR
ontemporartes

DUKE UNIVERSITY

The “every man for himself” night
will soon take place at Duke. Mysterious-
“Tombs Night” has
reached the Freshman. “Tombs Night,”
Duke’s traditional initiation night for
that most honorary order during which
it is well known that all yearlings are
trying to outwit the upperclassmen. Just
who these persons are that inform the
Freshmen of Duke's far-famed “Roman
Holiday” no one knows. Already the
Freshmen have started locking the
doors and windows before retiring. Last
year scores fled to Chapel Hill but their
excruciating reception is still remem-
bered. Though what they received is
now history, it has been surpassed only
by Hitler's latest “blood purge.” (This
brings back memories of what the D club
initiation night used to be).

Freddy Sington, ex-Duke Freshman
coach in football, is’ playing right field

for the’ Washington Senators of the
American League.
VIRGINIA POLYTECHNIC
INSTITUTE

The Post Office at V. P. I. is often

hombarded with unaddressed mail. Here
is a sample: Dear Mom, I can’t find but
two of my sheets and one pillow case.
I thought I brought them but they are
not here. If you can’t find them please
send me some. Tell Mrs.——- to send
—— his pajamas as he does not have but
one pair. Love to all—good night, there
goes the bugle.

WAKE FOREST

A fashion center, if rules are followed,
will be located in what is known as the
Wake Forest Library. The center. will
wax conservative, as sweaters and sus-
penders are banned. The tollowing is
an excerpt from the rules of library as-
sistants, recently released, informing
them of what vestiture they must be rig-
ged in: “Student assistants must be neat
in their personal appearance at all times.
If it is necessary to remove coats during
warm weather, vests should also be re-
moved, Suspenders must never be ex-
posed. A neater appearance is presented
if collars are not loosened or ties re-
moved. (This suggestion is a rule how-
over). The edict fails to give rules and
regulations regarding the proper wearing
of garters. If you ask me, the assistants
are Q'ween the devil and the deep blue
iea—hoo!

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

The professors and their wives will be
the participants in an “old-fashioned
spelling bee” at the Ann Smith Academy -
Building, This affair will be given for
charity.

Members of the Freshman class at W.
and L. ire faced with the calamitous
contingency of having, no candidate to
elevate to the president of the Freshman
Class. Campaign managers report no
progress as to s€curing a prospective
candidate.

GEORGIA TECH

Georgia ‘Tech will have a new gym-
nasium built from PWA funds that were
llotted by the State Board of Regents.
ihe cost will be-approximately-$200,000.

A little story with a moral: A Tech
prof asked a dumb freshman whether he
would rather have an apple or two halves
»f the s. me size. He took the two halves
nd received the raspberries of the class.
But he could see if it was rotten or not
hefore he ate it.

99 From DAVIDSONIANS
‘rT WAS NEWS... of Years Gone By

Five Years Ago

Forty per cent of the Freshman class,
of 87 new men, were piedged by fra-
ternities after three weeks of rushing...
Five upperclassmen were also pledged.
. . . Arrangements have been made for
a play-by-play report of the Davidson-
Army gime to be played at West Point.

. Pi Kappa Alpha was awarded the
Harper scholarship cup ... Eugene Craft
of Charlotte, has been secured to teach
organ and piano... The Clemson Tigers
defeated Davidson in the first game of
the year Dr. Walter Lingle was
elected a member of the Quadwrangle
club in a mock ceremony held in the
club room on the third floor of the new
Chambers building . . . Electric buzzers
have been installed in Chambers and
will ring at the end of each period.

Ten Years Ago
Jim Hendrix, smashing through a Blue
Stocking line time and again, was the

biggest gun in the Wildcats’ 15-3 win
over Presbyteri:n . .. Construction work
on the campus buildings continues . . .
Bad weather hinders track work

The Davidson yearlings will open their
season against Monroe high school . . .
Dr. H. B. Arbuckle addressed the min-
isterial band... The Rev. R. F. Beding-
er, missionary to Africa, has completed
a series of talks to the Davidson students.

Fifteen Years Ago

A Red and Bleck machine  steam-
rollered over the Wake Forest Baptists
to the tune of 21-0. . . Arrangements
have been made with the Red Path Chau-
tauqua Company for a lyceum course to
be given this year .. . Students are pick-
ing cotton to raise enough money to
start a band. Freshmen are exhibiting
sunburned brcks and stiff muscles as a
result of their first day’s work . .,. Stu-
dent body handbooks will be delivered
in a few days.

tg 2

GIRLS, WOMEN wish-
ing to enter free training
to become nurses send
envelope for details,
Southern Bureau, Box
222, Atlanta, Ga.

?

The Minister of Tomorrow—
Needs the best of theological training
that is available today. :

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., Pres.
Richmond, Va.

.

