fi

rm

es *
fee will be a formal

’CATS AND DEACONS
RATED EQUAL FOR
COMING STRUGGLE

The Davidsonian

ALENDA

LU xX UB!

ORTA

LIBERTAS.

WATTS TO DEFEND
CHAMPIONSHIP ON
RICHARDSON FIELD

Vol. XXII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 28, 1934

No. 10

WILDCATS READY FOR DEACON OUTFIT

ANNUAL DRIVE
FOR GiRloT MAS
FUNDST0 TART

Gifts Will Go To Mountain Mis-
sion Work In Northwestern
Carolina

DRIVE TO START DEC. 11

Work Is Under Leadership Of
Rev. R. H. Stone

In recognition of the great Gift that
came to all mankind at Christmas time,
there has grown up a fine custom at
Davidson. Each year the student. body
makes a Christmas offering to some
definite Christian work. To carry on this
fine work, the Y. M. C. A. has chosen for

_this year the mountain mission work. in

‘a
\"

the northwestern section of North Caro-
lina.

In past years, this fund has been used
for such places as Barium Springs Or-
phanage, Banner Elk, Foreign Mission
Board, Glade Valley High School, Mis-
sion work in China under the direction
of Frank Price, and the Davidson Unity
Church, which is conducted entirely by
the students. After careful consideration
of the various projects presented to the
Cabinet this year, it was decided that the
one in greatest need, and perhaps having
the greatest appeal to the. students;-was
that of the work in Ashe County.

This work is under the leadership of
Rev. R. H. Stone, who graduated from
Davidson in 1918, and after having finish-
ed his seminary course took up the work
there in 1923. The progress has been so
great that he and his associates have
gained recognition throughout the South.
Beginning with four churches and a total
membership of 84, this field has grown
until there are thirteen churches and a
membership of 760, This section of the
mountainous country is very destitute,
and the only religious work done there is
that carried on by these workers. The
special need at the present time is help
in finishing the two churches that have
been started, but not completed due to
lack of funds. The outsides of the
buildings are complete but the insides
have not been touched, and it will be
impossible to have.services during the
winter days for there are no heating
plants in either of the churches, nor are
there any partitions in the Sunday School
rooms.

In one of Mr. Stone's letters, he writes,
“The people here are quite poor—but

(Continued on Page 6, Column 2)

Thirteen Seniors Close Gridiron Careers

Thirteen members of the Senior class will close their football
clash with Wake Forest.on Richardson Field. Three of these rien were not present for the taking of the above
picture, these being Captain Johnny Mackorell, Jim Batte, and Barney Hand. Those pictured are, from left
to right: F. L. Bumgasner, J. J. Koenig, J. B. Lee, John Siewers, Charlie Fort, Bill Brewer, Dewey Hutchins, A. J.
Potter, George Wingfield, and Jim Morgan.

with ¢t

t- Turkey” Day

’
row s

WATTS-GEORGIA SITUATION IS TENSE
AS GRID BATTLE LOOMS

THE DAVIDSONIAN
RECENVES HONG

Paper Awarded First Class Honor

Rating By National.Scholastic
Press Association
The Davidsonian for 1933-34 was

awarded a First Class Honor Rating by
the National Scholastic Press Associa-
tion according to a letter and certificate
received by K. D. Weeks recently.
The letter and certificate were from
the 1934 All-American Newspaper Criti-
cal Service which held its fourteenth
meeting at the Department of Journalism
of the University of Minnesota. The
words of the certificate stated, ‘The
Davidsonian in recognition of its merit
is awarded First Class Honor Rating by
the Fourteenth National Newspaper
Critical Service of the National Scholas-
tic Service at the University of Minne-
sota, Department of Journalism.” <A
legend in one corner of the certificate
showed that the First Class Honor Rat-
ing is Excellent, the second highest rat-
(Continued on Page 6, Column 3)

Sophomores Complete Plans
For Their Annual Dance Set

Johnny Long Will Be Feature Of
Coming Centennial Social
Event

Final plans for the gala Sophomore
Week-End, a brilliant feature of David-
son’s social calendar, are now in their
last stages and all present indications
point to an enjoyable week-end.

Johnny Long and his Duke Collegians,
already well-known in this vicinity, will
furnish the music for the dances which
will head the list of attractions. Long
and“ his band were here last year and
made a very favorable impression. He
has announced that he has added several
new novelty numbers with which he will
feature the first .two dances of the set.

Three dances will be held. The first
affair at the Hotel

Charlotte Friday night, Dec. 14, from

9:30 to 1:30 o'clock. The second will be

‘a tea dance at the Charlotte Armory

and will be held from 4:30 until 6:30
o’clock Saturday afternoon, whereas the
final dance will afso be at the Armory
on Saturday night from 8:30 until 12:00
o'clock. These last two dances will be
informal.

‘The faculty members who have been
asked to attend the dances are: Dr. and
Mrs. C. K. Brown, Dr..and Mrs. W. P.
Cummings, Prof. and Mrs. E. J. Erwin,
Dr. and Mrs. S. C. Lyon, Prof. and Mrs.
W, McGavock, Capt. and Mrs. Norton
G. Pritchett, Major and Mrs. J. T. Rhett,
Prof, and Mrs. L. B. Schenck, Capt. and
Mrs. Charles ‘W. Seifert, and Dr. and
Mrs. G. B. Watts.

December 19 Is Named
For Snapshot Deadline

The dead-line for acceptance of
Senior informal snapshots for the
“Quips and Cranks’’ will be Wed-
nesday, December 19, according
to Editor Bob Smith.

In order to facilitate the work,
assistance has been offered by
members of the Photography
Club, who will make the pictures
for a nominal sum.

At present, approximately thir-
ty men, only one-third of the en-
tire class, have had their pictures
made. These snap-shots are of
vital importance to the success of
the Annual, and all Seniors are
urged by the Staff to cooperate in
this attempt to give the Year-
Book a personal touch.

Associations Purchase
Moving Picture Camera

The Alumni Association and the Ath-
letic Association have bought jointly a
Bell and Howell moving picture camera
and a projector. The camera was ‘used
in the games with Carolina and with
V. Mi. TI. to take pictures of Davidson's
offensive plays. Some of these pictures
have been shown to the players and to
the coaches.

The camera will be used in the future
to take pictures of campus activities and
of other athletic events. Slow -motion
pictures can be taken. These will prove
of value in showing players their mis-
takes and in helping to-correct them.

Georgia’s Challenge Rouses Ire
Of Watts ‘Tea Party
Attendants”

WILL BE THIRD CONFLICT

Rival Coaches, Players
Confident Prophecies

Issue

(Special to The Davidsonian)

The diplomatic situation on the Watts-
Georgia front takes on an atmosphere of
tension as December -4th, the day when
the two respective dormitories again at-
tempt to settle their ancient dispute on
the gridiron, looms on the forward hori-

zon,

Since the day that Georgia threw a
bombshell into the erstwhile peaceful
ranks with peremptory challenge, follow-
ed by a gallant reply from Watts, not
even the most nonchalant passerby fails
to notice the feelings that defy mere
walls of the dormitories and clash in the
twenty-five yards of separating space.

Nightly, the contestants of the teams
gather before their Alma Mater and
stage pep meetings to which the an-
nals of Davidson history fail find
parallel. Watts scored first by opening
fire Thursday night but Georgia evened
the count on Friday when, lead by Ged-
die Monroe, it staged a mammoth spec-
tacle.

to

Drawing upon its musical resources,
Georgia produced such a rarity as a 10
piece band and the prolific Monroe and
his staff of assistants turned out a collec-
tion’ of pep songs, cheers, Bronx and
otherwise, that would mock the fertility
of a Dumas. The pep meeting was con-
cluded with a shirt-tail parade ending on
the volley ball field, where the coaches
and players gave their promises for a de-
cisive victory.

(Continued on Page 6, Column 4)

Five Men Will Tryout
For Sports Announcing

A tentative list of five men was se-
lected from the group of twelve prev-
iously chosen candidates for the announc-
ing job who reported to Richardson Field
for tryout during the varsity and fresh-
man scrimmage last Thursday after-
noon.

These candidates were graded on voice,
accuracy in reporting the game, and
enunciation, and three of them especially
to the front in clarity carrying
power, and ease of speech. Mr. Joe
Johnston, of Barium Springs, Capt. N.
G. Pritchett, professor of physical edu-
cation, and two other faculty members
acted as judges.

Captain Pritchett stated that the au-
thorities are seeking an announcer who
is easy to listen to and who can be under-
stood even when the listener is talking
to someone at his side. The men chosen
will be given further try-outs next spring,
when they will bé allowed to announce
track events. Final selection will be made
at that time. ;

Remaining candidates are: ‘W. S. Ed-
wards, P. W. McClanahan, A. T. Port,
L. T. Purnell, and J. M. Westall.

This is the first year that competitive
tryouts have been held for this position.

came

ON HORIZON

LINGUISTS PLAN
TWO DAY MEET

Fleagle, Watts, Vowles To
Represent Davidson On
Saturday Program

The seventh annual meeting of the
South Atlantic Modern Language As-
sociation will be held at the College of
Charleston, S. C., November 30 through
December 1. Three Davidson men, Pro-
fessors Fleagle, Watts, and Vowles, are
on the program.

The Modern Language Association in-
cludes the states: North Carolina, South
Carolina, Georgia, and Florida. It has
met at Converse College, Spartanburg, S.
C.; at Davidson in 1930; and at the
University of South Carolina, Columbia,
in 1931. It has also met at Atlanta,
Georgia, under the auspices of the At-
lanta colleges, in 1932; and at Duke Uni-
versity, Durham, in 1933. Clement Voll-
mer, of Duke, and John Strausbaugh, of
Emory University, were elected presi-
dent and secretary respectively. The As-
sociation includes the English, French,
Italian, German, and Spanish depart-
ments.

The meeting will be opened Friday,
November 30, by the chairman Clement
Vollmer, and at that time reports will be
made by standing committees. This will
be followed by the presidential address.
That night, the dramatic society of the
College of Charleston will present
Moliere’s play, “The Doctor in Spite of
Himself,” in the English version. At the
conclusion of the perforraance of the
play, the College will tender the officers
and members of the Association an in-
formal reception in, the, Library.

On Saturday, December 1, the depart-
mental section meetings will be held in
the respective class rooms. At the French
meeting, Dr. George B. Watts will pre-
sent a paper “Louis Racine’s De la
Grace.” In the German meeting ‘Va-
garies of the Modal Auxiliaries” will be
read by Dr. G. R. Vowles. Prof. Fred
K. Fleagle will conduct a “General Dis-
cussion of Sectional Problems” in the
Spanish section.

The South Atlantic Modern Language
Association will conclude its seventh
meeting with a general business discus-
sion on Saturday morning, December 1.

The following institutions will be hosts
to the Association: College of Charles-
ton, The Citadel, Ashley Hall, Memmin-
ger Girl’s High School, Porter Military
Academy, Charleston Boy’s High School,
and Bishop England High School.

The Davidson professors who are
members of the Association are: Prof.
F. L. Blythe, and. Prof. F. K. Fleagle,
of the Spanish Department; Prof. Syl-
vain Minault and Dr. George B. Watts,
of the French Depdrtment; Dr. Edwin
F. Shewmake and Prof. Edward J. Er-
win, of the English Department, and Dr.
G. R. Vowles, of the German Depart-
ment.

JOHNNY MACKORELL
AND SWAN TO PLAY
FINAL COLLEGE TILT

GROUP DloGUoa
WILLS IN. TALKS

College Executives And Trust
Officers Meet On ‘More
And Better Wills

More than twenty college executives
and many trust officers of North and
South Carolina convened at Davidson

College, Wednesday, November 21, to

‘discuss the subject of “More and Better

Wills.”

The object of the convention was to
bring together colleges, trust companies,
insurance companies, the legal profession
and the public, for the purpose of con-
sidering their mutual overlapping inter-
ests. The sponsors of the conference,
the Commission of Permanent and Trust
Funds of the Association of American
Colleges, decided upon meetings of this
nature to serve the financial interests of
colleges and universities by getting the
people to recognize the importance of
making wills and of having the wills
properly prepared and executed. :

The subjects discussed in this relation
were: “Why Put Colleges in Your Will,
Dr. Clyde A, Milner, President of Guil-
ford College; ‘Why Have “a ‘Trust
Company Administrate Your Will,” Rob-
ert G, Stockton, vice-president and trust
officer of Wachovia Bank and ‘Trust
company in Winston-Salem; the topic,
“Why Have an Attorney Prepare Your
Will,” was discussed by P. C. Whitlock,
attorney for the American ‘Trust Com-
pany of Charlotte.

“How We Can Help Our People to
Become Will-Minded,” was the title of
Gilbert T. Stephenson’s address. He is
vice-president and trust officer of the
Equitable Trust Company, Wilmington,
Del., and “The Future of College Fi-
nances,” by Dr. Robert L. Kelly, execu-
tive secretary of the Association of
American Colleges.

“There are many reasons familiar to
us why «colleges should be included in
will,” Dr. Milner stated. oHe declared
that in every age tMere have been per-
sonalities who have felt the responsibility
of sharing their possessions.

“More

is one of a series to

The conference at Davidson on
and Better Wills”
be held under the sponsorship of thé
Commission of Permanent and Trust
Funds of the Association of American
Colleges. To this convention were” in-
vited about fifty college presidents 8f
North and South Carolina and trust offi-
cials who wished to attend.

F, L. Jackson, treasurer of Davidson
College and Chairman of the Permanent
and Trust Funds committee, gave a brief
resume of the addresses and activities of
the conference members over Station
WBT, preceding the musical program of
the Davidson Band, Friday at 9:00 P. M.

A copy of the addresses delivered by
the conference speakers may be secured
by writing to Station WBYT, Charlotte,
or by writing to Davidson College.

Holton And Kitchin To Oppose
Hutchins And Wingfield In
Tomorrow’s Classic

PASS ATTACK PROBABLE

Wake Forest Beat State; State
Held Davidson 7-0

With spirit running high on the cam-
pus in anticipation of Davidson's gigantic
Turkey Day clash with Wake Forest's
Demon Deacons, 29 members of the ’Cat
varsity squad are silently counting the
hours until the opening whistle at 2:30
tomorrow afternoon. on Richardson Field

Davidson will be fighting against their
traditional foe in the Demon Deacons and
both teams are expected to ring down
the final curtain of their 1934 gridiron
campaign in a spéctacular and powerful
fashion. The contest will settle the dis-
pute as to which team will occupy the
basement in -the Big Five Football
League.

Although the Deacons have met with
disaster in most of this year's-campaigns,
they have, nevertheless, put a great deal
of fear and skepticism into the hearts of
their opponents as regards their po-
tentialities with the pigskin. This has
come about largely because of the fact
that the Wake Forest eleven upset the
dope, during the early part of the season
to lay Hunk Anderson’s highly vaunted
eleven in the shade; that team having de-
feated Davidson 7-0 in a night game at
Greensboro.

Coach Jim Weaver,
has been worried considerably by the ef-
fectiveness of Davidson's passing at
tacks in previous games this year, and
with that in mind, he has taken up a
good part of his time in dealing with a
pass defense, which he hopes will limit
the activities of the ‘Cats Thursday. The
Deacon Mentor believes, according to a
statement, that the ‘Cats have the best
pass attack of any of the Big Five teams,
but should Mackorell’s heaves be kept
out of the slot, he feels that the Baptists
will be able to give their slightly favored
opponents a tough game.

Deacon Mentor,

Coach Weaver also believes that, “be-
sides possessing a great aerial attack, the
Davidsonians have, in Mackorell, the
equal of Wallace Wade’s Ace Parker in
booting the ball, and by far one of the
greatest broken field runners in the
South.”

Besides work on pass defense, Weaver
has also stressed the importance of his
big linemen particularly, Captain Pat
Swan, in getting into the backfield of the
’Cats and smearing the quartet of fa-
mous pony backs.

Wake Forest will try to match the
running, kicking, and passing of Mack-
orell in the person of Walton Kitchin,

172-pound sophomore quarterback and
son of the school’s President. Kitchin’s
fame lies mostly in his passing. Although

he heaves them underhanded, he has been
marveldusly accurate, having set a record
of 18 complete passes out of 21 tries in
a game against the Duke freshman last
year. In addition to these qualities, he
is a brilliant broken-field runner and has
displayed a great generalship in his first
year of Varsity Competition.
(Continued on Page 4, Column 2)

Coit Chosen Senior Advisor

Of Frosh In Close Ballot

Double Cuts Given For
Week Of Thanksgiving

In accordance with the general
procedure concerning absences
which has been adopted by the
executive committee this year,
double cuts will be given before
and after the Thanksgiving holi-
day.

This /order will affect absences
on Tuesday and Wednesday be-
fore the holiday, and also on Fri-
day and Saturday.

However, a student who wishes
to leave the campus at noon Fri-
day, may notify Dr. Sentelle in
advance of his intentions of leav-
ing, consequently having the cuts

day afternoon. and Saturday
counted single.

Final Selection Result Of Three
Eliminations From Field
Seven

R. T. Coit was elected Senior Advisor
of the Freshman class on the third ballot,
held in chapel on November 24. He won
the position over the following other
members of the senior class: Rigdon
Dees, Blanton Little, John Newton, Wal-
ter Sprunt, K. D. W Sens and Hugh Yel-
verton.

Weeks and Yelverton were eliminated
in the first ballot, and Dees, Little and
Sprunt on the second ballot. Coit was
chosen over Newton in the final ballot.

Coit is a member of Phi Beta Kappa,
of Omicron Delta Kappa, Captain of
Company C of the R. O. T. C. Unit,
member of Scabbard and Blade, and sev-
eral other honorary fraternities.

