.THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 31, 1934

Stirwalt, Miller
AndNabers Speak

“Y” Vesper Programs Continue
With Prominent Speakers

The speakers at the vesper services
for the last three Sundays of January
have been Dr. M. L, Stirewalt, Dr.
Julian S. Miller, and Dr. C. H. Nabers,
respectively. Special music for these
services was offered by Mrs. Vowles,
Mrs, Pritchett, Frank Tucker and Ed
Link, and in order to improve the
congregation-singing, Hubert Morris
has been selected to lead in the hymns.

Dr. Stirewalt read the familiar pas-
sage from the second chapter of Luke,
which tells of the Master's visit to the
temple at the age of twelve. And upon
His words, “I must be about my Fa-
ther’s business,” he centered his re-
marks on “Jesus, The Student and His
Student Days.” Christ’s chief “course”
was His personal relationship to the
Father. The words “I” and “My”
make it a matter of an individual to
an individual, and this idea of the Fa-
therhood of God was Christ's outstand-
ing contribution to the religious think-
ing of the world. As to His method
as a student, Jesus was independent
and original in His thinking, and a
keen observer of nature and the per-
petual clash of mind against mind. He
was clear and quick with answers, and
was never known to retract or revise
anything that was once said. His pe-
riod of preparation was ten times
longer than His period of ministry,
yet the everlasting results of His work
bear faithful witness to the thorough-
ness of His days as a student.

Dr. Julian S. Miller, associate editor
and columnist for The Charlotte Ob-
server, spoke on the text from the
sixth chapter of Matthew, “But seek
ye first the Kingdom of God and all
these things shall be added unto you.”
He brought out in his clear way the
truth that though the government may
and does organize boards for relief,
no significant betterment of conditions
can take place until our nation and
its leaders seek first the Kingdom of
God.

In his talk last Sunday evening, Dr.
Nabers advanced several reasons. why
St. John should have taken it upon
himself to write his gospel, when there
were three already in existence writ-
ten by men who had known Christ
and His message. The other three
gospels had each its particular point
of view: Matthew was writing to the
youth about a new deal and a new
world; Luke, the gentle physician,
wrote of the gentlest of physicians,
the loving Christ; Mark showed Him
as the fulfillment of the writings. of
the prophets. But to John it seemed
that notwithstanding these great in-
spired writings, the church of his time
lacked the glow of life that he had
felt in the days of Christ in the flesh,
so his is the gospel of Life and Faith.
Dr. Nabers concluded, “If a man loses
taith in that supreme personality, Jesus
Christ, he loses faith in those about
him and finally in himself, without
which no man reaches the best that
is in him.”

No information is available at this
time as to the vesper speaker for next
“Sunday evening, reports Sam Wiley,
Y..M. C. A. Secretary.

Frat Basketball to
Begin Next Thursday

On Thursday, February 1, the inter-
fraternity basketball tournament. will
begin. There will be two games played
every day for the first two rounds,
one in the afternoon and one at night.

The schedule through the first three
days follows:

February 1: Afternoon, Kappa Sig-
ma vs. Theta Upsilon Omega; night,
Pi Kappa Alpha vs. Pi Kappa Phi.

February 2: Afternoon, Kappa Alpha
vs. Phi Gamma Delta; .night, Beta
Theta Pi vs. Phi Delta Theta.

February 3: Afternoon, Sigma Alpha
Epsilon vs. winner’ Kappa Sigma,
Theta Upsilon Omega game; night,
Sigma Phi Epsilon vs. winner Pi Kappa
Alpha, Pi Kappa Phi game.

Caskie E. Norvell, Jr.,
Sports Editor, Resigns

Caskie E. Norvell, Jr., sports editor
of The Davidsonian, has resigned from
the staff of the paper. Norvell will
leave immediately to study journalism
at Columbia University. He was very
active in:college activities; being a fea-
ture writer on the Yowl staff, assist-
ant freshman baseball manager, and
member of the Pi Kappa Alpha fra-
ternity.

Prospects for Golf
Squad Fairly Bright

Sophs_ Probably to Form Major
Part of 1934 Team

Davidson may expect a fairly suc-
cessful season from this year’s golf
team, greatly weakened by the gradu-
ation of all of last year’s stars. The
prospect is brightened somewhat by
the fact that many of the year’s out-
standing golfers are sophomores and
may in the future develop into an ex-
cellent team. These were the words
of Prof. H. E* Fulcher, facylty advisor
to the golf team.

Eighteen men have shown interest
in intercollegiate golf this year and
among them, Fulcher picks Bowman,
Bunn, Cannon, Cochran, Dolan, Ham-
rick and Porter as major possibilities
for the team,

These eighteen men will compete in
a tournament with faculty and town
golfers in late February. Players mak-
ing the eight highest medal scores will
compete on the Carolina Country Club
course in Charlotte and from them
will be picked the four players and
the alternates composing the team.

The schedule this year will include
a tour through Virginia, South Caro-
lina, Georgia and North Carolina and
from six to nine “home” matches, to
be played on the Carolina and Char-
lotte Country Club courses in Char-
lotte. Big Five competition isUreport-
ed to be strong, particularly in Tar
Heel territory and in the domain of
the Blue Devil.

Captain Pritchett, upon returning
from a general intercollegiate athletic
conference in Chicago, notes that Da-
vidson supports its golf team far bet-
ter than the average school of its size.
Two hundred and fifty dollars is set
aside each year for the upkeep of the
local course and for the expenses of
the team.

Student Bears Expense
By Framing Pictures

A novel idea of framing pictures and
shingles for students is helping A. M.
“Mokey” Faison, who starred on the
freshman track team last spring as a
sprinter, to bear part of his college
expenses,

The track athlete, noticing that
many Davidson students attached pic-
tures and shingles to their walls with
adhesive tape, decided to go into the
framing business, and since has built
up quite a trade.

Dr. W. L. Lingle Speaks
While on Northern Trip

On_a_trip_ to New York and Phila-
delphia from which he has recently
returned, Dr. W. L. Lingle was a
speaker before a meeting of the Board
of Corporators of the ~ Presbyterian
Ministers’ Fund. Dr. Lingle, a mem-
ber of this board, was present at a
banquet meeting in Philadelphia and
spoke on the general subject, .“ What
Insurance Has Meant to Me.”

Later, President Lingle spent several
days in New York City where he re-
newed contact with many friends and
associates. Here he also visited head-
quarters of several foundations which
have so generously helped Davidson in
the past.

Dr. Lingle returned to Davidson
early last week.

HISTORIC RESIDENCE
TORN DOWN BY CWA

(Continued from page 1)
presidents and two professors lived in
the residence. The presidents were
Lacy, Kirkpatrick, McPhail, McKinnon
and Shearer. Professors Philips and
Latimer also resided there. Dr. Shearer
was the last of the presidents to oc-
cupy the house, and it came to be
known as Dr. Shearer’s home. When
Dr. J. W. Martin became president, he
remained in the house which he had
occupied as professor of chemistry, and
this building is now used as the presi-
dent’s home.

Dr. McPhail and Dr. Shearer both
died there, and the former died at
commencement time, just after he had
signed the diplomas of the graduating
class. After the death of Dr. Shearer,
the old edifice was used as a dormi-
tory, and a student from Louisiana
gave it the name of his native state.

The brick from the building is being
used to construct a walk from the
northern to the southern edge of the
campus, bordering on the Charlotte-
Statesville Highway.

FRESH DEBATES RESULT
IN SPLENDID MATERIAL

(Continued from page 1)
Thursday were chosen Boggs, Bigham,
Edwards, Fryfogle and Scott. These
ten constituted the final debaters Fri-
day. Members of the Forensic Coun:
cil acted as judges for the occasion.

Humphrey stated that the council
was seeking a debate with the fresh-
men debaters at Carolina but that he’
had not received a reply from the
university as yet. With an extraordi-

narily able freshman team, Humphrey
stated, the council would seek to sched-
ule at least three debates this year.
“As a whole,” he concluded, “the
judges considered the freshman debates
as superior to those rendered during
the varsity tryouts, held during the
fall.”

THIES WRITES IN
CHEMISTRY JOURNAL
a

(Continued from page 1)

real ‘stem and sap’ plants, the popu-
larity of this intriguing indoor sport
of growing depression flowers has
waned, but even today there are few
indeed who would fail to stop and
wonder at, or perhaps admire, the
numerous shoots rising from the
groundwork of coal, brick, etc., and
terminating in formations resembling
twigs, leaves, mushrooms, umbrellas,
spires, and other fantastic designs. At
times the stem of a plant is quite thick
and strong; again, it will be so thin
and minute, with a top so large and
heavy, that it would seem impossible
for the growth ‘to stand alone. The
tender-hearted gardener feels the im-
pulse to tie it to a stake as he does
his tomato vines. Then sometimes,
high on the mountain side of a piece
of coal, there will appear a growing
plant of remarkable beauty of form
and design, growing on an inconceiv-
ably small Stem, resembling markedly
the manner of growth of a rhododen-
dron in the crevice of a rock on one
of our mountain sides.

“Since the body of the plant con-
sists normally of nearly 100 per cent
salt, the growth is commonly white,
but can be colored to any shade de-
sired by use of water soluble dyes.
Mercurochrome has been the most
commonly used dye, producing coral
and red tints, Tincture of iodine has
been suggested as a coloring material,
but is not very satisfactory, and should
not be used in connection with am-
monia, which is included in some de-
pression plant formulas. Cake color-
ings are usually water soluble, and
furnish a ready source of coloring ma-
terials, Ordinary. bluing..will not> color
the plant appreciably.

“Many formulas have been proposed
for the depression flower, and good,
bad, and indifferent results have been
obtained. Almost all formulas agree
on lumps of coal, clinkers, coke, or
brick as the foundation for the growth.
Some call for various amounts: of salt,
liquid bluing, and water. Others allow
the substitution of stick bluing. Some
add soda, some add ammonia, some
consider mercurochrome a necessity,

while others think that iodine will do,,
and lastly, we find those that stress
the exact’ manner in which the salt

‘and foundation materials are to be

placed.

“My experience with depression
plants began when I tried to grow
one using blue ink instead of liquid
bluing—as I supposed, for coloring
matter. My efforts failed. Next, the
formula given in the January issue of
Popular Science Monthly, calling for
satt;-water, and liquid bluing, was fol-
lowed in detail. Again failure result-
ed. My eyes were opened to the fact
that the growth of the depression
plant was not merely a salt, bluing,
and water proposition, but that there
was something far more fundamental
to consider. Herein was the «inception
of this study, with its ninety-odd tests.

“Before going further, attention
must be called to the fact that a dis-
tinction has to be drawn between the
common capillary process of creeping,
or crawling, and this exceptional proc-
ess of chemical growth that consti-
tutes the depression flower.

“The growth of the depression plant
is dependent on evaporation. Two ex-
periments were prepared in exactly
the same way, each contaiping salt
with the correct amount of ferrocy-
anide. One was ‘left exposed to the
air, and grew rapidly, ‘The other was
exposed to an atmosphere saturated
with water vapor, and showed no signs
of growth. Later, however, this plant
grew rapidly in air and in a calcium
chloride desiccator, respectively. The
well-grown plant ‘wilted’ when placed
in the saturated atmosphere.

“Strong acids like hydrochloric, and
strong bases like sodium hydroxide re-
tard or even prevent the growth of the
plants, although salt and ferrocyanide
are present in the correct proportions.

“The spewing of ice out of certain
kinds of soil led to the tests made
with clay which produced such ice,
called for the lack of a better name,
‘spew ice.’ The supposition was that
such a clay might contain something
that would cause Salt to grow as the
ice had> Only “iregative results were
obtained, however, until ferrocyanide
was added,

“Microscopic examination of the
plants indicates that the growth is not
typically crystalline. Frequently the
branches appear tubular, like stal-
actites, growing reversed, and if the
salt is crystalline at all, the crystals
are extremely minute, and probably
dendritic, one joining another to form
a relatively smooth surface.”

Professor Thies concludes with the

following paragraphs which summar-
ize his paper:

“We have found that the sole pur-
pose of-the bluing is to supply a small
amount of ferrocyanide ion to stimu-
late the growth of the ‘flower.’

“Ferrocyanide seems to be unique
in its power to cause the growth of
the salt structures, in that it is the
only substance found that would func-
tion satisfactorily.

“0.50 per cent to 1 per cent potas-
sium” ferrocyanide gives best results.

“To start a depression flower, spread
a generous layer of salt- on the bot-
tom of a rather shallow bowl. Ar-
range lumps of coal, pieces of brick,
coke, clinkers, sea shells, corn pith,
blotting paper, twigs, china or glass
figures, etc, on the surface of the
salt. Dissolve a few crystals of potas-
sium ferrocyanide in water and pour
this solution into the bowl until the
surface of the salt is just covered.
Growth can frequently be noticed in
less than half an hour. Add a little
water from time to time to make’ up
for evaporation.

“Very few substances can be sub-
stituted for sodium chloride. The only
ones known at present are potassium
chloride and potassium bromide,

“The depression flower presents an
interesting physical-chemical problem,
about which much is yet to be learned.”

MOCK TRIAL IS HELD
BY MILITARY SOCIETY

(Continued from page 1)
trial judge advocate, was filled by
Lieutenant R. Pratt-Thomas. The
court president was r W. M.
Brown.

In additoin to the aforementioned
there were five captains present. After
lengthy argument the defendant was
acquitted of the first charge, but found
guilty in the remaining three, with all
members of the court concurring in
the finding. .

Captain Powell was sentenced to
confinement to post for remainder of
the year.

A capacity crowd filled the room,
with” the “iiistriictors of the military
department being present.

Captain Odi Casali and Lieutenant
Dale Spencer acted as reporters, re-
cording the procedure of the court.

7

Scientists of Harvard, Toronto, and
other universities are busy in Cam-
bridge studying through a microscope
the photographs of more than 700
Leonids taken during the recent Leonid
shower, with a view to discovering if
possible the elements of the star dust.

to us the

taste.

ty

You know,
that means something

By “balancing”’ 6 different types
of home-grown tobaccos—

By adding just the right amount
of the right kinds of Turkish—

By blending and cross-blending—
“welding” these tobaccos together—

We believe we have in Chester-
field a cigarette that’s milder and
tastes better.

“They Satisfy” has always seemed

what we mean by this milder better

© 1934, Licerzrr & Myzns Tosacco Co,

best way of describing

stertield |

the cigarette that's MILDER - the cigarette that TASTES BETTER
