THE DAVIDSONIAN,

NOVEMBER 28,

1934

The Davidsonian

Founded by the Class of 19165

Associnted "Golleginte Press
+1934 Gollesile Digest 1935 =

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
QUEEN. CITY PRINTING. COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second<lass matter at the Post Ofte at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 8rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION
must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock Usb
Monday. Letters to the Editor are but all
tions intended for publication must be signed.

K. D. WEEKS . i 4.15 0 0 ss . . « Editor
J. A.C. WADSWORTH .... Business Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
Barcel BARNETT Me aging ned
'AUL HaRLan ‘anaging Editor
pi hiya M aging Eddor
OHN WALKER ‘anaging Editor
Harvey GLass --------- Managing Editor
UAMONT “DROWN  osccccccoccosuccbuccascee Sports Editor
Enwm Bowers .-..- Exchange Editor
Cartyte Lewis -- Featuré Editor
Scorry McLegop -- Feat itor
G. L. Gutverte Associate Editor
E. F. McPaHar Associate Editor
B. L. Rose Associote Editor
Jack HELiincer te Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
JieBi Gosnens oo oe socca scone ooeeee Asst, Business Mgr.
Va CASSELS Asst. Business Mgr.
Tom Ross Asst. Business Mgr.
JisSiR@MGMULLEN? coccesns asses Asst. Business Mgr.
Rie Pia MORROW o2sccccns cess soos Asst. Business Mgr.
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1934

Language most shows a man; speak that I may see
thee; it springs out of the most retired and inmost
part of us—BrEN Jonson.

THE THANKFUL HEART

If one should give me a dish of sand, and tell
me there were particles of iron in it, I might look
for them with my eyes, and search for them with my
clumsy finger, and be unable to detect them; but let
me take a magnet and sweep through it, and how
would it draw to itself the almost invisible particles
by the mere power of attraction,

The unthankful heart, like my finger in the sand,

discovers no mercies; but let the thankful heart
sweep through the’day, and as the magnet finds the
iron so it will find, in every hour, some heavenly

blessing, only the iron in God’s sand is gold—H, W.
BEECHER.

PARAGRAPHICS

The game with Wake Forest tomorrow concludes
the 1934 football season for the Wildcats. A win
for the ‘Cats will make it four won, four lost and
one tied for the season. Comparative scores give
Wake Forest a slight edge to win, but taking every-
thing into consideration, we believe the odds favor
Davidson rather strongly. Victories for both teams
have heretofore run in streaks. Davidson broke into

the win column two years ago, and should continue
in this group indefinitely,

The radio programs broadcast w eekly from Cham-
bers Auditorium have given Davidson College some
finé publicity. Numerous letters in praise of ‘the
program have been received from far and wide, It
is a distinction that no other school in this part of
the country can boast of.

Mr. Grier Martin is to be congratulated. He was
largely instrumental in securing the extension wire
that makes possible the broadcasts from the campus.
He has also done fine work as alumni secretary.

Flowers for the living. We name the three foot-
ball managers, W. L. Northern, varsity managers;
R. O. Dees, equipment manager ; and W. E. At-
water, freshman team manager. Unilike the star,
the coach or the captain, these men never receive
any praise or publicity for their work in connection
with the team. If you think it is just a big honor
. you are all wrong. Their duties are many and are
difficult; they are responsible for the welfare, and
comfort of the teams, and the business transactions
connected with it. They have done a good job of it.

CONCERNING TELEPHONES
IN THE DORMITORIES Ap

HERE are
certain students in this student body who, on account

of their lack of coéperation and abuse to one or two ~

of the privileges and conveniences which we have,

subject the whole student body to the risk of having

these conveniences taken away from them. ‘This

has been exemplified in the case of the radio situa-

tion in the dormitories. Due to the continued lack

of codperation on the part of a few individuals in
;

—

operating their radios the students came very near
to being completely deprived of this privilege. As
the result of several rather vehement appeals, the
radio experiment began to operate more successfully
and has since continued to exist quite satisfactorily.

Just recently, the telephone company has threaten-
ed to remove all the telephones from the dormitories
as a result of abuse and destruction to several of
the mechanisms. On numerous occasions, the tele-
phones have been torn from the wall or damaged
in such a way as to make it impossible to use them.
Complaints have been received time and time again
to the effect that illegal money and slugs have been
used in order to operate them. Some students de-
light in playing pranks on the telephones by asking
for fictitious names, or by doing a number of
things just to have a little fun at the expense of
the operator.

From the number of complaints received from
outsiders, saying that it is very difficult and many
times impossible to get a person here by telephone,
it is evident that there is a general attitude of in-
difference on the part of the students to answer
them, an unwillingness to inform the particular per-
son that he is wanted on the telephone, and above
all, the mistreatment that they receive at the hands
of many thoughtless students.

Most of the calls that are made to ‘id from the
dormitories are long distance calls, and most every
long distance call is prompted by an important mes-
sage or by necessity. Think of the inconvenience
and anxiety caused parents, relatives, and outsiders
when the telephones are out of order or when no
one will answer them promptly !

In East and West Dormitories it is even a more
difficult proposition to make a call than in any of the
other dormitories due to the fact that the parlors
in which the telephones once were, have been di-
vided into two parts in order to provide more rooms
for the students. Instead of moving the phones
from the rooms into the halls, they have. been left
in the students’ rooms trusting that the occupants
will answer the calls and allow others to come in
whenever they wish to use them. It can very easily
be seen that this plan is very impractical. The rooms
will be locked most of the time and even if they
remained open it would be a constant bother to the
occupants to have others coming into their rooms at
all times to make calls.

The phones should. be moved out into-the-halls
and placed in private booths where they will be pro-
tected from damage to a certain extent, and also
from the noise that is always prevalent in the dormi-
tories.

To take the phones out of the dormitories on
account of abuse from the students would be to de-
prive them of almost a necessity. Besides the in-
convenience that it would cause, it would also be a
reflection on the student body. It would be a re-
flection on the integrity of the students who have
been used to this privilege all their lives and by this
time should know the value of, and should appreci-
ate such a privilege.

Why not do your part to protect the ealbpkotied
and help prevent others from damaging them,
thereby decreasing the risk of having them taken
out ?

CLASS OF 1935
ENDS GRID CAREER ih
HE annual

Thanksgiving football game between Davidson and
Wake Forest to be played on Richardson Field to-
morrow will be of far more significance than just
the concluding game on the Wildcats’ 1934 sched-
ule. When the final whistle of the game is blown,
it will bring to an end the gridiron careers of thirteen
true and loyal Wildcats who have contributed for
four years to the reputation and ideals of Davidson
College athletics.

When the strains of “O Davidson” ring out
Thursday afternoon, a sensation of sadness and de-
votion will stir every member of the Senior Class
as he realizes that a number of the most gallant
heroes ever to wear the Red and Black uniform will
have fought their last battle for the Alma Mater.

The sadness of the occasion is increased when we
realize that the class of 1935 is assembling as a
group for the last time to see the Davidson gridders
play the game around which the great Wildcat Spirit
is molded. Nor may we forget that for many seniors
it may be the last time they shall ever see a Davidson
team play.

And especially to those thirteen cient to whom we
pay tribute at this time will the sadness be great;
it means an end to their participation in the king of
college sports. For four seasons these men have
trained and striven to carry the Red and Black
colors to victory. These men have sacrificed, and
they have risked injury ; to them we offer hearts full
of praise and admiration.

Some of them have reached the ranks of star-
dom. Others there are that have not received such
recognition but deserve just as much' credit. Nor
would we forget those who, for three hard years,
strived but failed to place. All of them have done
their part and have done it well.

The Class of 1935 is proud of her sons who have.

performed so nobly in behalf of their Alma Mater.
| They have acquit themselves like men, and it will
be in this spirit that they will say farewell to the
gridiron when thé game is over tomorrow.

C’_OMPASSING

the.
CAMPUS

By Scorry McLrop

Recent years have seen the fuller de-
velopment of intra-mural athletics on col-
lege campuses throughout the nation.
Where formerly the majority of students
were willing to confine their athletic life
to the viewing of a football game and
to receive their most strenuous exercise
jumping up and down in their stadium
seats, we now find that more and more
students take active participation in ath-
letics in most of our colleges. No longer
content to nurture admiration and awe
for their local athletic heroes, the Amer-
ican student himself is becoming an ath-
lete. Not only is he athletically-minded,
but he is athlegically-active. This is truly
a development to be commended. .

The palpability of the development on
our own campus may be seen in the daily
hordes of undergraduates who invade the
gymnasium, the volley-ball courts, the
practice football field north of Cham-

satiation of a growing yearning for ath-
letic skill and a manly physique. Ath-
leticism has arrived on the College Cam-
pus; we hope it will be a lasting part of
collegiate life.

Yielding’ to the influence of a
sophisticated world, and disre-
garding the laws and customs of
Nature and agrarian experience,
have com-
menaced this fall to raise a crop for
next summer. We believe that it

ous Davi

bers, and other athletic grounds, for the|

“SELECTED PAPERS
of
PHINEAS SPOON.”

A Reflection on the League of Nations
—Conclusion.

It is admitted that international an-
archy obtains today. The “League of
Nations” symbolizes law before which
even state “Sovereignty” should bow. The
wreckage of human hopes is strewn up
and down the whole earth.

The twentieth century world is at once
too-small-to tolerate a system of nation
pitted against nation. The doctrine of
the original, absolute, unlimited and uni-
versal sovereignity of “States-Many” is
an anachronism.

A league of nations is the next step in
any action sequence determined by intelli-
gent men. But, no covenant of any lea-
gue can endure if it seeks to execute
and perpetuate a forced peace.

If history repeats itself, the treaty of
Versailles must either be revised or go
the way of the Treaty of Frankfort and
all the rest. If history serves its pur-
pose, we know that the Treaty of 1919
is not definitive. We cannot afford to
build the superstructure of a league of
nations on so transitory a foundation.

Two years ago I stood under the Arc
de Triomplie in Paris. A great bronze
placque is permanently fixed in the stone
floor beneath the arch. In raised letters
which time cannot erase are read words
to this effect:

“To the return in 1919 of the provitces
of Alsace and of Lorraine.”

In striking symbolism, the “Eternal
Flame” burns not fifteen feet away.

Across the Rhine there is no triumphal
arch. But there is an eternal flame, and’
it burns in the souls of a people whg with
equal patriotism whisper in Poincare’s
own words—“We can discover no reason
why our generation should go on living
except for the hope of recovering our
lost provinces.” PHINEAS Spoon.

Editor's Note: Continuing this treat-

;|ment of organization in world society

Mr. Spoon will undertake to discuss the
problem of “Nationalism” in his next
paper. x

is it y to begin crop-rai

in the spring, but this new move-

ment around Davidson defies that
~age-old custom. Everywhere may

be seen the tiny fresh shoots of

life appearing from the superior

muscular structures that bound

OUR
ontemporaries

By Enip Bowers

the human orifice which serves
as an entry into the elimentary
canal; In other words, less mous-
taches sont ici. Several seniors
have led off in the mustache-
growing fad hereabouts and nu-
merous others have taken it up.
But when Geddie Munroe burst
out with a velutinous chin several
days ago, it was too much for the
Georgia Hotel inmatés. Geddie
thought, it was a goatee, but a
number of skeptical Georgians
hog-tied Munroe while Bud Okey
shaved the offending hairs from
his chin. Now Geddie is sans

facial outgrowth.

We present an alliterative sequence
which might serve. to describe the actions
of the Wildcat backfield men when they
attempt to take fourth place in the State
race by, winning over the Deacons Thurs-
day: Four foxy fetching frivolous flighty
frothy frollicking fiery fascinating funny
famous facetious frowning fortunate fen-
omenal fickle floundering frugal formid-
able flippant forgetful Felines férociously
fighting for fourth finish ’f final fracas
far from first.

Dormitory pep meetings seem
to have proven more attractive to
Watts and Georgia students than
the same kind of gatherings held
in the interest of their Alma Mater.
Recent demonstrations of vehe-
ment verbal valor vacated various
venues very un-vacillatingly.
Watts and Georgia, in prepara-
tion for a gridiron contest nearly
two weeks in the future have held
numerous gatherings for the ex-
pression of their almost obstre-
porous enthusiasm over the com-
ing combat. Accused of serving
tea and crackers in their dorm
parlor, the Watts boys retaliate
that ‘‘Sherman did it, so can we.”
Marching Through Georgia is the
“Watts theme song, while that of
Georgia Arms is an adaption,
of some modern favorite.

Herb Willis and
Bob Orr were accused of cheating on a
Psychology Review recently; they flipped
a coin with two heads to determine the
veracity or falsity of the true-false quer-
ies . . . Gus Maynard hopes to some
day grow up and be as big as his dog,
KA; both are familiar figures on the lo-
cal campus . . . Gordon Wood and Char-
lie Lucas have recently started a fencing
club among themselves with frequent
contests. ~ Foils fly fast but fencers fall
faster . . . Bob Coit is certainly an ex-
cellent man for his new post as Fresh-
man Adviser; he is Phi Beta and O.D.K.,

ON THE HILL:

which recommends him for any job...

-} son students .

Virginia Polytechnic Institute

The Thanksgiving formal festivities of
the German and Cotillion clubs at V. P.
T. will be held on Dec. 1 and November
30. The clubs are featuring Reggie
Childs, Todd Rollins, Al Katz and John-
ny Hamp and their respective orchestras.

On the editorial page of V. P. I.’s
student paper there appeared an article
on whether or not newspapers foster
crimes or not. The writer was of the
opinion that they had a prominent place
in “advertising f or murders and house-
breakers.” In conclusitw, the thought
was that “the newspapers are in part
responsible for many of the crimes
which they print today, and the reporters
will pick up tomorrow.”

Duke University

Dean Justin Miller of the Duke Law
School brought a piece of granite used
in the construction of the Federal Su-
preme Court Building back to Duke for
a gavel rest. Through his suggestion a
gavel made from the mahogany used in
the making of the bench in the Supreme
court was sent to the school several days
ago. Both are to act as an inspiration
to those that wield it in their course of
law.

OPEN FORUM

(Note: “The Davidsonian” does not
necessarily endorse or accept any opin-
ions expressed in this column).

The author of this article is of the firm
belief that new ideas in regard to stu-
dent body activities should be consid-
ered carefully, and that those ideas
which seem worthy should be put into
practice as a means of testing their prac-
ticability. Those ideas which seem to
be in the best interests of student poli-
cies or institutions should be given a
trial to prove their worth. If, over a
period of time, the innovation should
prove beneficial, it should become a cus-
tom and become absorbed in Davidson
tradition.

If, on the other hand, the idea should
prove unsatisfactory or detrimental, it
should be either radically altered or re-
moved completely. Readers will find the
recent radio question at Davidson a con-
venient illustration of the above points.

However, the question I wish to raise
at this time is the policy of the Glee
Club in regard to chapel services. Over
a considerable period of time, those mem-
bers of the student body who have the
ability to sing and to lead others in sing-
ing have been removed from their reg-
ular chapel seats and have been placed
on the rostrum, from which point to lead
the singing.

The purpose of this article is to show
that this change is not worthy of con-
tinued existence. In the first place the
men who have the best voices would have
much more influence on the singing in
general if they were to remain in their
regular seats, where they could lead
those with less ability, than they now
have with one-half of them in front
of the student body, and the. other half
in the balcony, where their voices have
no effect at all. In other words, a strong
and well-trained voice among the student
body serves as a stimulus to the sing-
ing which is not true of the present sys-
tem.

In the second place, the appearance of
the group is entirely out of keeping with
the purpose and the nature of the chapel
service. This point hardly needs elab-
oration, as it is perfectly obvious that
no attempt is made to dress uniformly
or even with dignity. The point here
is not to try to reform the dress of the
student body, but rather to insist that
those who are constantly before the eyes
of the student attire themselves accord-
ingly. The alternative is to remain in
the student body group where the com-
monplace modes of attire are readily ac-
cepted and approved.

The third point which has come to the
attention of, many who really. seek bene-
fit from the chapel period is that the
group which is ih a positioff to be seen
by all for the entire period is a group
which detracts from the reverence and
the gravity of the occasion by means of
an attitude of levity and joviality not
at all in keping with the spirit in which
the chapel period is held. This fact
alone never fails to arouse much com-
ment among students who do not approve
of certain practise on the part of men
in prominent positions in the group who
constantly seek individual recognition.

To conclude briefly, the alternatives
which suggest themselves are either to
abandon the idea as impracticable, or :to
remodel the idea so as to add due dignity
to the appearance and general attitude
and to have the entire grotp to enter
into the singing at once, so that their
voices will have more effect than is now

the case,

‘ir was NEWS...’

9 From DAVIDSONIANS
of Years Gone By

NOVEMBER 25, 1914
-Coach Younger’s Wildcats were all

primed and prepared to close a good
season by defeating Wake Forest in a
Thanksgiving Day game to be played in
Charlotte on Wearn Field . . . Senior
Oratorical Exercises were to be held on
the day after Thanksgiving, and a record
crowd of girls was expected to attend
the event. Their names were all pub-
lished in advance so that the students
would know whom to expect .. . Dr.
Henry L. Smith, a former Davidson

president, and at that time president of |:

Washington and Lee University, spoke
at both church services on Sunday.
NOVEMBER 27, 1919
Davidson and Presbyterian College
tied 0-0 in a hard fought game... The
Wildcats were then finishing a hard week
of practice in preparation for the final
game with Furman University in Green-
ville on Thanksgiving . . . The Seniors
were busy preparing orations for Senior
Speaking . . . The Eumenean won from
the Philanthropic society in the inter-
society debate for the first time in five
years ... An informal inspection of the
R.O.T.C. battalion was made by Maj.
Daniels . . . The magnificent Strand
Theatre in Charlotte was featuring Wm.
S. Hart in “Staking His Life,” a thriller
especially calculated to appeal to David-

NOVEMBER 27, 1924

Davidson and Trinity College were
ready to meet in a Thanksgiving em-
broglio . .. The Wildkittens closed their
season by suffering their only defeat of
the year at the hands of the Furman
frosh, 26-0 . . . The college administra-
tion stated that they hoped to be able
to hold'‘classes in the south wing of the |
néw Chambers Building by the beginning
of the second semester . . . Walter T.
Davis won an appointment to West Point
. Phi Beta Kappa initiated ten men
including Dr. W. T. Thompson, Dr. B. R.
Lacy, and Dr. J. M. Douglas, all alumni
initiates.

NOVEMBER 238, 1929

Wildcats were pointing for a victory
over the Duke Blue Devils on Thanks-
giving Day . . . Dr. McGlothlin, presi-
dent of Furman University made the ad-
dress at Phi Beta Kappa initiation . . -
C. O. Kuester of Charlotte spoke to the
business classes . . . A group of seniors
from Salem College gave a one act mys-
tery thriller, much to the delight of the
Davidson audience. . . The Duke frosh*
whipped the ’Kittens by the score of
26-6 . . . Tentative plans were made to
inaugurate a weekly broadcast over sta-
tion WBT in. Charlotte to be known as
the “Davidson College Hour.”
