THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 7, 1934

The Dadidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

Member of

Associated Golleginte Press

“= 1933 Gomi [CovERAcE) 1934 =

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

PTION RATES: Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office we be satiln
North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1

Articles for lag Adtea must be in the hands of Managing Editors
by 4:00 Oke lock P: m., Monday. Letters | to He E litor are
I ut al

must be sansa

wa CASALI.....-..- Editor
iy OHNSON Bi
EDITORIAL STAFF
G. L. -GULLET TE. on a... nn cc nun cc cccte sc ccccccensas, Managing Editor
E. F.. McPHAIL iMenesicg eae
B. L. ROS M Edit
K. D, WEEKS g Editor
ACK HELLINGER Alumni Editor
RAWLI NG PRATT-THOMAS. Editorial Writer
hh Ge UNTE Exch Editor
. B. BAILEY ‘eature Editor
S. K. EATON... Feature Editor
Cc. S. McCALL eature Editor
L. W. CLARDY A i
A. F. SCHENCK A Editor
W. M. THOMPSON A Editor
JACK WILLIAMS, yR. A Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
G. L. GREEN.............. A B Manager
W. _L. SPRUNT. A B M
. R. TAYLOR A B Manager
j A. C. WADSWORTH..... ee A t B Manager
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 7, 1934
Patience is bitter, but its fruit sweet.
—Rousseau.

DAVIDSON’S BAND

Tomorrow night Davidson’s Concert Band will
formally open its season with a program in
Chambers Auditorium. The band is built along
the lines of a symphonic orchestra, making the
use of strings and woodwinds to soften and make
mellow the tone of the brass instruments.

The band is composed of nearly fifty pieces.
All, except two, of its members are of the junior,
sophomore, or freshman classes. Since practi-
cally all the members of the band will return to
school next fall and with the coming of musi-
cians in the freshman class next year, Professor
James C. Pfohl, youthful director of the band,
feels confident that membership in the band can
be increased to 80 next fall. This would give
Davidson the largest college band in the state
if not in the South.

With the opening of its season, the band will
start a drive for uniforms for members. Tomor-
row night no admission charge will be made, but
a free-will offering will be taken up after the
program, the proceeds going towards the pur-
chase of uniforms. Professor Pfohl stated that
the drive will continue until enough. funds to
equip an 80#piece band were raised.

+ There has been a revival of music at Davidson
since the coming of Professor’ Pfohl this year,
and there has been no end of favorable tomment
from those who have heard Davidson's musical
organizations. For this reason the drive for uni-
forms has been heartily approved. “

Here is what some of the listeners have to say
regarding the band and its drive:

President Walter L. Lingle: “It is highly de-
sirable that the members of the Davidson College
Band should have suitable uniforms. Such uni-
forms are rather expensive and there are no
funds available for their purchase. It is hoped
that the students, faculty, and friends will make
liberal contributions to the free-will offering be-
ing made for that purpose at this time.”

J. C. Harper, trustee: “In less than one year
Professor Pfohl has brought the band at David-
~son College from one of the poorest bands in
North Carolina to one of the best, and those who
have heard this band in the past may prepare
for a great surprise at the improved ability and
finished work.”

Dr. M. E. Sentelle:
drive for uniforms.”

Dr. J. M. McConnell: “The student band adds
a great deal to the attractiveness of all college
gatherings, The faculty as well as the students
are very appreciative of the excellent program
of our band under the direction of Professor
Pfohl. I advise all who can to attend the con-
cert to be given tomorrow. You will enjoy the
music and members of the band will appreciate
your presence.”

Dr. John W. MacConnell: “Remember Dry-
den’s ‘Ode to Cecilia’s Day,’ when he spoke of
the power of music as displayed by Orpheus and
St. Cecilia. ‘He raised a mortal to the skies. She
drew an angel down.’ With such power in music,
none will dispute that we need. more and better
music here in Davidson. Now when we have an

“I heartily approve the

opportunity to benefit by Professor Pfohl’s able,

teaching, let us all contribute to the support of
the band and orchestra.”

Captain Norton Pritchett: “I heartily approve
of any plan for raising money to purchase band
uniforms. A real band that lends itself enthusi-
astically and effectively to athletic and other col-

NY

lege activities is almost indispensable, and we
have such an organization. I feel sure that our
Athletic Council will be glad to make a substan-
tial appropriation to supplement whatever
amount is raised otherwise.”

Mrs. N. T. Smith: “Certainly a most worthy
and worthwhile undertaking. No greater asset
has come to Davidson College than this band.”

Miss Cornelia Shaw: “A band that plays good
music certainly deserves to be well dressed. I
certainly approve the drive for uniforms.”

Mrs. A. B. Robinson: “The Davidson College
Band and Orchestra under the efficient leader-
ship of Professor J. C. Pfohl is a great asset to
Davidson College as well as to the town. Friends
who enjoy these musical treats without cost
should be glad of the opportunity of contributing
something to make possible suitable uniforms
for the members of the band.”

INTRAMURAL SPORTS

On last Monday night the intramural boxing
tournament came to a close. The spectators
were treated to an exhibition of boxing form
and skill which was quite remarkable. The
matches were full of fire, the participants giving
and taking all, and the audience heartily cheer-
ing every sound blow and strategic move.

We thought that the entire tournament was
a fine example of- good clean sportsmanship—a
form of athletic participation quite free from any
form of commercialization. The boys entered
the contest with no other idea in mind than that
of keen competition to the end that the best man
might win.

The same might be said of all forms of intra-
mural activity that we have on the hill. These
sports are certainly the most enjoyable and un-
doubtedly do the greatest good for the greatest
number, which should be the fundamental aim
of any form of athletics,

The champions: Ormand, Santiago, Frazier,
Alexander, Lee, and Windham are to be con-
gratulated—the vanquished are also entitled to
their share of the honors. They, too, fought
cleanly and well. —R. P.-T.

ROBBING PETER TO PAY PAUL

Track and baseball practice have begun in
earnest both for the varsity and freshmen squads,
and this period of training has resulted in a
wholesale migration of the majority of men out
for these sports (especially freshmen) away from
different boarding houses to an officially des-
ignated place where training tables are avail-
able. In fact eating at a traning table has been
made practiclly compulsory ; you eat at the train-
ing table or you don’t indulge in the sport. So
far so good. Training is fine, absolutely neces-
sary, but we are not in sympathy with the meth-
ods employed.

There are a great number of men on this cam-
pus who bear a portion of their expenses and in
some cases make'it possible for them to remain
in school by acting as waiters and managers in
the various boarding houses. Now, we under-
stand that these training-tables are operated not
so much from the standpoint of the students’
physical development, as they are to afford a
means by which certain individuals may secure
their board free by working as waiters.
favor this up to a certain point, but are forced
to condemn and disagree when these men are
supported at the expense of those waiters at
other boarding houses who lose their jobs when
a number of men leave these houses and go to
the training table. Surely these men have as
much right to earn their bread as those waiting
at the training table—neither group is privileged.

This rule is fundamentally good, but should be
given a certain amount of elasticity. The spirit
as well as the letter of the law should be con-
sidered. Any regulation becomes radical when
it is spread blanket-like over all cases, and event-
ually does more harm than good. We do not
want a man to lose his job in order to support
another. “Do not rob Peter to pay Paul.”

—R. P.-T.

Here and There

Dr. D. C. Croissant, of George Washington
University, blames foreigners for “our silly
spelling.” He is an advocate of simplified spell-
ing. -

Approximately 100,000 needy young men and
women are receiving CWA funds to allow them
to continue their education in colleges and uni-
versities,

There is sulphur in the sun, Princeton Univer-
sity scientists reported recently at the conclusion
of a long series of photographic tests.

The Phi Delta Theta Chapter at Northwestern
University recently celebrated the.75th.anniver-
sary of its founding. It is the oldest college fra-
ternity chapter in the state of Illinois.

Students at Ripon College publish a special
paper for students in music.

Wer

On Other Campuses

MASS. STATE

From the Loyola Maroon, we learn
of a fraternity man at Massachusetts
State that was arrested for drunken-
ness, but was released on the plea that
he had water on the brain and he was
just taking an anti-freeze solution!
Why don't we have them kinda cops?

CLEMSON

A vast soil survey, under the aus-
pices of the United States Department
of Agriculture, is being conducted at
Clemson College. To date, some five
hundred thousand samples of soil, from
over the entire Palmetto State, have
been obtained for analysis at Clemson.
About three hundred thousand samples
have already been tested for hydro-
gen iron concentration value, realtive
acidity, and several other values.

PRESBYTERIAN COLLEGE
The members of the varsity rifle
team at P. C. recently fired a match
against the girls’ team, In order to
make the contest more even, the co-eds
were allowed to. make use of all avail-
able means of disconcerting their ad-
versaries, urging them on, applauding
their efforts, etc. We understand that

the boys lost ... the rifle match.

WASHINGTON AND LEE

The sudtent body at Washington and
Lee has petitioned the Athletic Coun-
cil to retain Coach Mathis, popular
wrestling coach, another year. Earlier
this year, it was announced by the
council that Coach Mathis would have
to be released due to financial diffi-
culties. However, the students kept
Mathis at W. & L. by popular sub-
scription. Washington and Lee wrest-
ling teams have gained national recog-
nition under the coaching of Mathis,
having lost but one match in the last
fifty or more meets. Final action of
the council will not be taken until the
latter part of this week.

CALIFORNIA

Crossed eyes are things of the past!
Frederic Mason, professor in opto-
metry at the University of California,
has perfected an instrument which will
straighten crossed eyes.

The device, which operates by means
of light projected directly into the
retina, trains and re-educates crossed
eyes to act simultaneously and cor-
rectly.

COLLEGE ORCH ESTRA

MERITS MUCH PRAISE

(Continued from page 1)
by Svendson. Moreland Cunningham
will render a cornet solo, “Grand Rus-
sian Fantasy,” by Levy, and several
marches and novelty numbers are on
the program.

The band, built along the lines of
a symphonic band, includes strings as
well as regular band instruments. In
the band’s instrumentation are included
two unusual instruments, the alto
clarinet and the sarrusophone, and a
complete set of drum traps. Altogether
the band consist of 35 instruments,
less than the number in the marching
band,

Friday night the band will give a
concert at Lenoir and the following
Monday night it will play at Steele
Creek.

The complete program is as follows:

1. Hall of Fame—Concert March—
‘Olivadoti.

2. Overture to Stradella—Flotow.

3. Cornet Solo: “Grand Russian
Fantasia”—Levy, by Moreland Cun-
ningham,

4. Chant—Nobody Knows de Trou-
ble I’ve Seen—Clarence Cameron
White—(from Bandana Sketches).

5. The Black Man—Sousa,

Intermission.

6. Selections from H. M. S. Pina-
fore—Sullivan,

7. Vocal Solo: Sylvia—Oley Speaks,
David McLain.

8. Romance—Svendson.

9. The Fencing Master-—-March—
James C. Harper.

10. “Atlantis Suite’ — (The Lost
}-Gontinent)—Safranek.

FRESHMEN TALK OF

(Continued from from page 1)
complaints of .the upperclassmen
against the freshmen. -By influencing
future classes, Powell stated, a much
better chapel service could be main-
tained since the present attitude is ac-
quired and not original. The second
idea implied an improvement in the
church situation.

Complaints have come from the
Court of Control concerning the fresh-
men not remaining in their seats long
enough after chapel, applause by the
freshmen in -retaliation to upperclass-
men boos. when a freshman announce-
ment is made and concerning stamp-
ing of feet in chapel: These were pre-
sented to the freshmen for. their con-.
sideration and also a suggestion from
the faculty that they visit more on
Sunday night.

‘these, “Queen Christina,”

FUTURE ON CAMPUS |:

Local Theatre Will

Show Three Favorites

This week at the Davidson Theatre
there are some of the best among the
present. productions to be screened. Of
“ Bolero,”
and “The Lost Patrol” should warrant
their share of the giory. ‘These three
shows have been tried and found true,
with only very little lacking.

Wednesday, March 7—Bolero

The intimate story of the life of a
famous dancer, with George Raft tak-
ing this part. He is well suited for
it, for that was his profession before
he went into the movies. Carole Lom-
bard takes the lead, as the one with
whom he falls in love, and upsets all
his plans, which included using the
beautiful women who helped him on
his climb merely as stepping-stones.
The two dance the Raftero, and the
“Bolero,” two of the newest dances.

Thursday and Friday, March 8 and 9—
Queen Christiana

This masterpiece needs no introduc-
tion. It is Greta Garbo’s best produc-
tion, and John Gilbert, with her, is
equally at his top level. Garbo plays
one of the most colorful parts of her
career, arid makes it lovable and ten-
der, in the role of Queen Christiana.
She is torn between her love for Gil-
bert and her duty, and their acting is
wonderful.

Saturday, March 10 — The Lost
Patrol P

This~is listed as one of the best and
most inspiring of the late shows. It is
the story of a platoon of British Tom-
mies who are lost in a Mesopotamian
desert, and their struggles to free
themselves. Victor McLaglen, Boris
Karloff, Wallace Ford, and Reginald
Denny are among the lost patrol, and
an outstanding fact is that there is
no woman in the cast. It is a story
of suffering, and very interesting. and
thrilling.

Monday, March 12—I’ve Got Your
Number

At last comes some real good com-
edy, wtih Joan Blondell and Pat
O'Brien together for the first time,
who should make a good team. Joan
is the smart-cracking operator and
O’Brien the equally smart-cracking
trouble shooter for the company, and
when they get together, the words do
fly. The action includes a bold rob-
bery, a kidnapping, and a gang fight
with a crew of telephone linemen. Also,
Joan gets her opportunity to prove
that she is as good a dramatic actress
as a comedian. The cast includes
Glenda Farrell, Allen Jenkins and Gor/
don Westcott.

Tuesday, March 13—Hold That Girl
Another very good comedy, of a sort,

NEWS DIGEST

By DOPEY McCALL

ONE YEAR OF ROOSEVELT

One year ‘of the Roosevelt adminis-
tration and the new deal is over and
it finds the country well on the road
to recovery. The hand of the Presi-.
dent has initiated the series of depart-
ments which are carrying on the work
of the new reconstruction; it has be-
gun the policy of action instead of
waiting; it has put millions of dollars
in the pockets of the common people;
it has devalued the dollar; it has put
men back to work; it has done its
duty and its best. May the next year
bring as much progress as the last.

DILLINGER ESCAPES

John Dillinger, the modern Jesse
James, escaped from his closely guard-
ed jail in Crown Point, Ind., eluded
a cordon of police thrown out to stop
him, and is now scouring the states in
that vicinity with a machine gun in his
hands. Dillinger had been arrested
with numerous murders and robberies
to his credit and was awaiting trial
in jail when, with the aid of a wooden
pistol painted black, he forced his jail-
er, Miss Holley, to unlock him and
then he locked the others in and es-
caped in the sheriff's car. A wide-
spread hunt is in progress over most
of Indiana and Illinois in an attempt
to find him before he can round up
the members of his gang.

HUNGARY

The situation is still tense in Hun-
gary a8 the result of the arrests of one
hundred persons on the charge of be-
ing spies working in the interests of
Jugoslavia. The suspects comprised
both citizens and army officers and
implicated several important and beau-
tiful social leaders of the female sex.
It was the sensation of Vienna and
no one quite knows what to expect
next. Three army officers committed
suicide when the police net was clos-
ing about them and this looks as if
there might be some room for sus-
pecting their guilt.

A YEAR OF TRIAL

This head does not refer to the peo-
ple but to the government of the
United States, and it also does not re-
fer to the year of the Roosevelt. ad-
ministration just past but rather to
the coming year. The forces in Wash-
ington and all over the country who
are opposed to things as they are, are
gathering their forces for war and
from now on things will not be so easy
for the latest wielder of the big stick.
From now on he is going to have to
fight to get what he wants.

with.James Dunn and Claire Trevor.
There is not much known about this,
but with the stars, it should prove to
be very good.

“WHEN A FELLER
NEEDS A FRIEND’

When a collapsible collar makes you look
Pretty silly... forget it, son, with a pipe-
ful of BRIGGS. This tranquil tobacco
brings peace after panic. Long seasoned in
wood, its rare, spicy tobaccos are tempered
to mildness. There's not a bite in a barrel-
ful of BRIGGS... the blend a fellerneeds.

KEPT FACTORY FRESH
by inner lining of
CELLOPHANE

OP. Lorillard Co., Inc,
