THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 21,

1934

3

NEW BOOKS Ait
NOW IN LIBRARY

Ten. Popular Writers’ Latest
Works Made Available To
Davidson Men

The Davidson College Library an-
nounces the arrival of several new and
popular books as an addition to the book-
shelf of the newly written books. The
names and discussions of the books fol-
low:

“Paderewski,” by Charles Phillips.
The, story of a modern immortal with
reference to the love of art and music.
Charles Phillips is the author of “New
Poland.”

“The Choice Before Us,” by Norman
Thomas. It is the story of mankind
at the crossroads. Thomas is the author
of “America’s Way Out,” and “As I
See It.” His book takes into discussion
another world war within the next ten
years with reference to Fascism and
Socialism.

“Wings of Fame,” by Louise Wallace
Hackney. The novel is based on the life
of James Smithson, founder of Smith-
sonian Institute in Washington, D. C.

“The Beloved Physician of Teheran,”
by Isaac Malek Yanan. It is the story
of the miracles of the man who walks
and talks with God.

“American Song,” by Paul Engle. It
is a book of poems. Paul Engle is one
of the new tone pogts in American folk
literature. He is a Rhodes Scholar at
Oxford and bids fair to become one of
the dominant figures in this decade of
American poetry.

“Education For Successful
by James E. Clarke.

“A Child Went Forth,” by Helen Mac-
Knight Doyle, M.D.

“Men, Money, And Mergers,” by
George L. Hoxie. The book relates a
collection of statistics and events based
on modern human instincts.

“Woodrow Wilson,” the caricature,
myth and the man by Edith Gittings
Reid. She is the author of the “Great
Physician.” She relates in the book
several incidents when Mr. Wilson
would spend visits with her in Balti-
more and also some very valuable let-
ters.

“Liberia Rediscovered,” by James C.
Young.

“State,” by George E. Spankle, Ph.D.
It gives valuable information on names,
flags, songs, birds, ee and other
symbols.

“War Memoirs of David Lloyd
George,” 1916-1917. He was a member
of the British cabinet during the war

“ahd. remained continuously in office
throughout the World War.

In front of the library a new walk-
way has been constructed to avoid the
congestion during the rainy season.

Living,”

Armaments Cost World
4) Billions During 1933

Last year ‘the world spent approxi-
mately four and one-half billion dollars
on armaments. The race for increased
armaments has become a mania with the
larger nations of the world. This year
the total expenditure for the same pur-
pose will be over five billions.

Mussolini is rattling the sabre in Italy.
His government is increasing expendi-
tures for the navy, the air fleet, and is
subjecting young boys to compulsory
military training. France, England, Ger-
many, Russia, and Japan are all follow-
ing similar procedures. In the United
States, sixty-four cents of every dollar
paid in taxes go for wars past, present,
and future.

The slogan among the nations seems
to be that the cannon must be fed, even
if the people have to starve.

Nations have their military attaches
and naval attaches in legations and em-
bassies abroad. The time has come
when every nation should have also a
peace attache whose special business

would be to study the problems of the|%

relation of nations from the viewpoint
of peace, which hitherto all nations have
studied and approached from the view-
point of war.

It is for the students of all countries
to study the questions of war to try to
bring about a change in the attitude of
all nations. If intelligent men and wom-
en will lay aside their prejudices and
extreme nationalism, they should be able
to come to some understanding that will

save civilization and keep us out of the}

jungle.

Among the
GREEKS

With all eyes turned toward Thanks-
giving with the Wake Forest football
game in sight and the prospects of a good
many of the fraternity alumni on the
campus, the activities of The Court were
very limited oyer the week-end.

Beta Theta Pi — The usual Sunday
night feed was enjoyed by the brothers.
A number of the members attended the
Carolina-Duke game, returning to Dav-
idson Sunday after a most enjoyable
week-end.

Kappa Alpha—Scottie McLeod, Tom
Downie, and Harvey McConnell were
sent as delegates of the Sigma chapter
to a convention in Columbia, S. C. Some
of the brothers attended the Isham Jones
dance at the University the past week-
end. .

Phi Delta Theta—The Beta chapter
at Chapel Hill was visited by a number
of brothers over the week-end. Those
remaining on the campus spent a quiet
week-end.

Phi Gamma Delta—Numerous brothers
of Delta Kappa attended the classic foot-
ball game Saturday at Chapel Hill. The
Fijis who remained on the camptts spent
a quiet week-end browsing among var-
ious magazines and listening to a num-
ber of new records which have recently
been purchased.

Pi Kappa Phi—The Pi Kappas are
looking forward with a great deal of
enthusiasm to the approaching Thanks-
giving holiday and game. The members
are expecting a large number of the
alumni to be present and in anticipation
of this event had a somewhat uneventful
week-end. The Pi Phis have decided to
buy some new furniture in the near fu-
ture.

Pi Kappa Alpha—The chapter was vis-
ited over the week-end by the follow-
ing: Andy Little, Charlotte; A. C.
Cline, Concord; R. H. Lafferty, Char-
lotte; and P. L. Lafferty, Concord. The
members of the chapter are proud to
announce the recent initiation of W. F.
Cox, Jacksonville.

Sigma Phi Epsilon—The Sig Ep's will
receive two loving cups from the Grand
Chapter in Richmond for attaining the
best scholastic average of any social fra-
ternity on the campus. Bill Broadway,
Shelby, while on a visit to Davidson,
was taken ill and had to remain in the
College infirmary for three days. He
expects to return to take up his work
during the second semester. A placard
with the engraved name of the most
outstanding freshman in the Centennial
class of the fraternity will be presented
to the chapter by the senior class of last
year.

Senior Cagers Defeat

First Year Men 19-14

The Seniors downed the Freshmen,
19-14 in the first game of the inter-mural
basketball tournament last Monday af-
ternoon in the gym. On Monday night
the Sophomores met the Juniors, but the
results of this game and those played
Tuesday and Wednesday were not known
when this paper went to press.

In the first game, Yager of the Seniors
was high scorer, getting 5 points while
Elvery and Munroe got four each. Rhine-
hart and Myres held the scoring hon-
ors for the Freshmen, each getting three
points. The Seniors started with a rush
and scored seven points before the yearl-
ings could get going, but shortly after
the start of the second half, the fresh-
men rallied and several times held a
one-point lead over the upperclassmen.
The Seniors, however, came back and
pulled away in the closing minutes of
play.

The captains of the various teams are:
Seniors, Colin Monroe; Juniors, Hugh
Yelvington; Sophomores, Dick Parker;
and Freshmen, Charlie Harris.

-e

M. H. GOODRUM
Dry Goods, Groceries
Hardware

Radio and Radio Tubes
PHILCO AND GRUNOW

4

DRUGS
WE HAVE

SUNDRIES

IN EVERYTHING
White Drug Co.

=e
SODAS

THE BEST

PRESCRIPTIONS

Davidson Students

A A A A A

Y.M.C.A.

Freshmen Begin Rifle

Christmas Holidays To

n
of Grange, Ro
; Obacco the
IS used,

the

ug
Wellman

| ;
A Aw Marksmanship Cotte! Begin On December 19
pply For ard | . | Christmas- holidays will last exactly
pee S em Neew S§||Members Of Rifle Team Also ae ne cel
Five Seniors Will Appear Before | Beginning Practice For two weeks this year, starting va Wed-
Committee For Rhodes Vann YENGaY, Y Y Y Y Y Season nesday, December 19, and ending on
* : (opp Thursday, January 3. As customary, all
Scholarships The Y a) a TARBTALONE sear “ : : ,
sommes ti : 2h > ote A sent ve ds his aa : \long ahout this ee in the “good oe classes will end at twelve-thirty o’clock
; 3 i ’ us past week-end to Concord. The first} days” our ancestors began to true up the A ima stat Sains
‘ ein Foemiaae aed aah wy deputation was composed of W. C. Neil,| old shooting eye in anticipation of “Tur- oe the MA oh ps eg fhe ‘holidays.
ee “Guiana ChE ne Paital speaker, and Frank Tucker, Humber] key Shoots,” held throughout the neigh- Classes will resume at eight twenty-five
; i te ne : eats ue aitataie ib Morris, John Washburn, and John Mor-| borhood just before Thanksgiving. o'clock on Thursday morning.
in state meetings will appear before dis-| ,. AOS ier vette SoG Ohne : an ; -
i i as igt "h q det quartet, The SiH Eads CM Loe Maybe remembrance of this old custom The regular monthly reviews for the
trict committees, eight in number, and Mentone Saiirdae: cuenta andy alco ants ah aoe ; ;
he final i f the 7 DP — a Sy _$ a is stirring ancestral blood at this time. | month of December will end on Satur-
the final selection o the usual quota church Sunday morning, at which time} Rp OQ. Tp ¢ } rently be ite z ¢
of 32 Rhodes Scholars will be made early] wo CG. Neil spoke Me Guaviatsaeasin® %. O. T. C. 1 has recently begun its | day, December 15, four days before the
in January, Five Davidson seniors will paniments were played by Warren Bab- Winey Sue ee deeaie sy lade beginning of the vacation.
apply in Alabama and North Carolina,| cock. assistant seor er po nth cv bag direction of Captain Cochran. The | __ - ———
, assist fessor ¢ sic. Val}. elaine gaC Ate rR ae Site
and E, K, Emunian, class of '31, B, A. CRBGTE RA SiRnTA: “SAlanAG” eanplied course, including everal periods of ac @ @
summa cum laude, will be submitted by | music for the second deputation, Sunday es SH the gallery range, will
Union Theological Seminary, as a can-|eyening, at the Young People’s Meet- last the remainder of the semester. Young Men's Sweaters with
didate for Virginia. The local commit- ing. Members carried over from last year Sport Back and Leather But-
tee made up of Professors Cumming, The Y.M.C. A Fes en deme are also easing into the armory and onto tons are being shown as the
Lilly, and Vowles, approved and sub- : dad ae peas ae ep ae a the range to see if they can still “hold newest thing in the Students’
mitted the following names: Robert H. 4 aaah eae a A Sie ws and squeeze.” Match — shooting begins Department of
Smith and John R. Taylor, for Alabama; ra itha bal 2 a ree hriiaieg te February 1, and challenges are coming
Gordon H. Brown, John M. Douglas] Ne BERETS SAAS Me in from schools and civilian clubs all
Thomas H. Sutton, and Gordon R ay bad uh Pape a hs e Saar over the country. These matchos are J O JONES INC
Wood, for North Carolina. 2 i Lege wR ger 16th, will} rot on local ranges, and results are sent 208 S. TRYON ST.
: ae He MSS A Xdaks ‘ to opposing teams by mail. In addition, CHARLOTTE, N. C.
‘ ‘ The ping-pong tournament began last | there will be several shoulder-to-shoulder
NRA Furnishes Topic week, but to date, has progressed rather | matches with organizations nearby. e eo
Slowly. = - —— ——____—__-— —$—$—$—————__———
For Eumenean Debate|*" eS ole °
The annual Mission Fund campaign
' nena will probably be begun soon, the Y. M.
The Eumenean Literary Society held c Ni atta BARRIS TT aarte
its regular weekly meeting last Tuesday Honncenients coticething- the campaign %
night at 7:15 in Eu Hall. The program Re TEN OU HRM ETA leon fates
consisted of a debate on the subject, Re- : :
solved: That the NRA should be abol- FE
ished. The debaters, all of whom were Professor Beaty Will
new members of the society, were: Af- Speak At Fayetteville see YOU'LL BE
firmative—Edward Turner, J. M. West- :
all, W. P. Yelverton; negative—T. B. Professor: If. A. Beaty, Latin instrue- HAPPY IN
Hoover, Knox Thompson, and W. M. tor at Davidson, will be the speaker when HANES!
Wicker. The debate was hotly con- the eastern division of the North Caro- Shorts... Shirts
tested; but the house, acting as judge. |iing Education Association holds its an 2 Union Suits
voted the negative side winners. nual meeting in Iayetteville next Sat
At the next meeting of the society, | urday, November 24.
the new officers for the year will be in He has been invited to address the
stalled. The new officers are: President, | Classics Teachers’ section on phases of
Luther Shirey; vice-president, Bob Lind-]| Roman education as applied to modern
say; secretary, John Allen. problems.
SERVICE VARIETY P. H. HANES KNITTING COMPANY
WINSTON-SALEM
HOTEL DAVIDSON
|
QUALITY QUANTITY :
e find
‘ o
ee
: “a

ps, ufacture
Ut Pipe
Process

Ocess Is dif.

: Process On

ei :
Il Sives

