THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 17, 1934

THE DAVIDSONIAN ©

Founded by the Class of 1915

MEMBER

ciated Gollegi
ican sc

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office. at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 8rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION
must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m.,
Monday. Letters to the Editor are a but all ica-
tions intended for publication must be signed,

SS ertberee ats noo. Oa ete
Business Manager

K. D. WEEKS . .
J. A. C. WADSWORT G0 G0

EDITORIAL STAFF pe
decuevesuevousducicaccal Managing Editor

Martin BARNETT !
paperane g Managing Editor

Pact Haran ----

Tom MarcHant -Managing Editor
JouN WALKER - -Managing Editor
BIARVES« GEARS aocse oascctduu -Managing Editor

-Sports Editor
-Exchange. Editor
-Feature Editor
-Feature Editor
Associate Editor

Lamont . Brown
Eni Bowers ----
CartyLe Lewis
Scorty McLeop +.
G. L. Guerre --

E. F. McPuar, - -Associate Editor
By te Rostes ko. c2 -Associate Editor
NAGK ME ENGINGER 2c coubscuscssoccculuusde Associate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
Nels GOSURN: cosccscicessccusdesuceus Asst. Business Mgr.
Vat CAssets Asst. Business Mgr.
Tom Ross -- 1sst. Business Mgr.
J. S. MeMu.ien dsst. Business Mgr.
R. P. Morrow --.-.-- gessccsseanasess Asst, Business Mgr.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER ‘17, 1934

“Better late than never,” is not half so good a maxim
as “Better never”,

PARAGRAPHICS
The two services conducted last Sunday by Dr.

“Tolly’” Thompson of’ Richmond were well at-
tended by the students and proved quite enjoyable.
The new plan of inviting a guest preacher from
various places once a month is one that has been
welcomed by the student body. It is certainly a well
directed move and one that has come after much

careful consideration.

The balloting in the eleetion for a new vice-presi-
dent to fill the vacancy left by. Bob Richardson has
been the closest witnessed here in many a day. It
took four ballots to elect one man out of six candi-
dates, and each time the margins between the num-
ber of votes could be counted on the fingers of both
hands. This is proof that in the eyes of the student
body there are a number of good men for the office
and it is also a proof that the elections next Spring
will be close and spirited.

‘Fhere-is one redeenting feature about the crush-
ing defeat handed the Wildcats by the Army Cadets.
Drake University, who was considered to have a
much better team than Davidson and who had pros-
pects of being formidable opponents for Army, took
a worse beating than we did: forty-eight to nothing
as compared with forty-one to nothing. Army either
has a “Rose Bowl” team or the advance game dope

on Davidson and Drake has been far frome right.

We hope the Seniors will take an active interest in
submitting snap-shots of themselves for the annual.
For the last year or two there seems to have been a
lapse of interest as regards having pictures made for
the “Quips and Cranks”. It should be remembered
that pictures make a yearbook and that a yearbook
is one of the most valuable souvenirs that we can
have of our college days.

A COLLEGE PRESIDENT’S
INAUGURAL ADDRESS

Dr. Tyler Dennet who was recently elected new
president of Williams College, made an inaugural
address which due to its impressive qualities and
originality warrants excerpts of it being printed here
and has brought .forth editorial comment. in|‘other
papers. His address was not a flowery one, nor
was it one boasting his oratorical ability, but it was
one -well put, practical and one. which every student
would ‘do well to consider before he or she enters
or leaves college. The outstanding feature of ‘his
address was that although. during a changing world
.and unpredictable conditions it ‘was poised and se-

rene and spoke the humble truth.

“An astonishingly large number of young people
enter college lacking the most essential quality in
character. ‘Mhey are deficient in the simple quality
of honesty ; not meaning that they lie and steal, but
that they are not honest with themselves,” Dr. Den-
net said.

His address was: bound to have made a profound
impression not only on the students but also on the
parents. It reads in part as follows: “We are going
to take your boy on a great adventure out through a
wilderness of ideas some of which quite possibly you,
with your-habits: of living and settled convictions,
would not have the courage to face. We hope that
the boy has the character to carry his load on through
for we have in mind to bring him out some day into
a clearing where he can see quite around himself,
his old home and his parents over there, his schools,
his teachers, his books, his companions over here,
and himself an individual separate from you and
separate from us, standing on his own feet. We
trust, however, that although an individual he will
remain a son and that he will become a citizen, an
integral part of the social life of a great nation. It
is our desire that your young man shall come out
with a discernment to cling to what is good both of
what you and what we have given him. We hope
also that he will know enough to throw away the
chaff.”

“The last word I shall say to your boy is to go back
or, df he comes from some large center, then to sum-
mon a‘little of that pioneer spirit which still runs in
his veins, and strike out into the country where our
people perish for lack of leadership. I should like to
send him back, not with his nose in the air, but with
a broad tolerance which is the crown of culture, and
I cannot refrain from hoping that you, waiting there
to greet him, will also be tolerant. The saddest part
of this terrible process by which our smaller cen-
ters~of~ populatton-have been bled white is that so
many parents do not know, and are not willing hon- .
estly to face, the reason why the boys do not wish to
go back home when they are out of college.”

From this we can tell that Williams has a presi-
dent that knows life, the fundamental and essential
things of life and although no doubt a modern
scholar has not forgotten these things. Students and
graduates under the influence of such a leader are
bound to strengthen the national life of our country.

“QUIPS AND CRANKS”
APPEALS TO STUDENTS

Here's a problem! A fundamental principle of
economics is involved, so grit your teeth, and get
a good grip on your chair, We are familiar with the
proposition that if Willie, Frank, or any one else
has $.10, he can purchase with it only articles whose
total price equals said $.10. Very well. Now for
the next step: If the same Willie, or Frank, or any
one else, has only $4800, how can he secure with
it a product the price of which is $6,000? A difficult
predicament, indeed! In fact, the situation seems to
resolve itself into two alternatives: 1.
the $4800 product, or 2,
$6000:

less, in this case, not totally impossible!

Swallowing
Swelling the $4800 to
Little short of a miracle, it’s true, neverthe-

We realize that when the word “annual”, or even
its campus synonym, “Quips and Cranks,” is men-
tioned, there looms up in the minds of many the
idea of a fairly decént and expensive volume, in-
evitably appearing on the last day of school, whose
editor and business manager immediately take the
first boat for Europe. ¥

However, though this certainly is a most pleas-
ing myth, facts do not altogether sustain it, and be-
lief in it exerts a somewhat destructive influence on
said annual. So, although the job is a rather dis-
tasteful one, we nevertheless feel compelled by duty
to do what little we can toward dispelling this very
damaging illusion.

We know that for a great many of the student-
body, these words are unnecessary, but there also
remains a large percentage who are unconverted, For
them, we wish to stress the fact that if the annual
is to be even fairly decent, and necessarily expen-
sive—certainly if it is to measure up to the standard
set by its predecessors—it is imperative that the gap
between $4800 and $6000 be bridged; and the only
really practical way for this to be accomplished is
for at least two-thirds of the student-body to join
in the rush to have-their pictures taken. ‘Thus
the difference can be made up between the amount
collected from the student publication fees, adver-
tisements, and organizations, and the price of a really
creditable annual.

No greater practical contribution toward making
the 1935 ‘“Quips and Cranks” the best one yet pro-
duced can be made than for every man to make a
special effort to have his picture taken when the
photographer is here next. week. We feel that your
return will be in an annual in which your picture is
the voucher fgr your whole-hearted codperation.

—R. H. Smiru, Editor Quips and Cranks.

C’OMPASSING
the.

CAMPUS

By Scorty McL£op

Whether it was a personal interest in
the speaker, a natural longing for re-
ligious revival, the reputation of the min-
ister, or the inducement of credited
church attendance that caused the large
influx of students into Chambers at last
Sunday's Vesper Service, it is not our
purpose to say. We do feel, however,
that the increased attendance at this
particular service indicates that when
the Y. M. C. A. announces an important
and popular speaker, and the college co-
6perates by admitting credit for Vesper
attendance, the Davidson students will
certainly be present for the seryice. This
fact was exemplified Sunday. Over half
the student body, most of the faculty,
and a number of townspeople were pres-
ent; and if any were disappointed in the
Vespers, we have failed to hear of it.
Professor Pfohl’s excellent glee club
renditions added materially to a -near-
perfect program. Dr. “Tolly” Thomp-
son’s challenging an ‘intimate talk. on
Temptation was rich, soul-searching, and
thought-inspiring. He summons David-
son students to a moment of introspec-
tion and self-appraisal.

That funniest of funny maga-
zines will appear the first of No-
vember according to Lorenzo Mc-
Phail, who bows into the spotlight
with the initial issue of the current
year’s YOWL. Lorenzo and his
boys have been staying up late the
last few nights trying to be funny;
how successful they have been we
will soon know by their papers.
THE YOWL, more than any other
publication of the campus, needs
the whole-hearted support of the
student body for “its continued
merry existence. We wish for it
a big year in a big way!

ODD SIGHTS: Kirk Hanrahan rush-
ing into your room with L. P. sandwiches
and other goodies to eat; little Kirk
surely has some sales line even though
he is studying for the ministry .,. The
“B" squad needed “Chief Ka-Twonk”
Sanders in their game Saturday ... Bob
Kornegay, Mal Grimes, Charlie ‘Thomp-
son, ‘Tom Ross, Val Cassels and others
at the big blow-out over near Concord
this week-end it was a Cabarrus County
Fair, and a pretty fair one according to
these boys; DuBose riding a ferris wheel
at this same exposition .. . Lindsay Watt,
George Cowan and others on an ex-
tended gridiron tour to Raleigh, Greens-
boro and other points . . . Johnny Laf-
ferty, new coach and teacher over at
Kings Mountain, in Davidson over the
week-end . Bob Smith, the new Y
pres... . Everybody going to see Alice
Fay and find out how she learned about
sailors, Saturday night . . . Joe Dees
pepping things up at the game against
Campbell college . . . Skip Brown’s witty
between-the-halves announcement at the
same game, “Referee Harris kicks off to
the headlinesman, and the water-boys are
defending both goals’, or something to
that effect.

It is our belief that the most out-
standing need of our college today
is a suitable place for aquatic ex-
ercise; a swimming pool has been
knowr-to serve the purpose. Some
people who have tried these pools
tell us that they serve the purpose
admirably: the purpose being of
course, to stay on top the water
three times. If you stay on top the
water three times and come up
after.not going down, you may be

OUR
ontemporaries

By Enip Bowers

Duke University

Was rather amused at an editorial in
the Duke Chronicle of this week. The
article headed “Believe It Or Not” stated
that there is a concrete eviderice of a
growing friendship between the Univer-
sity of North Carolina and Duke. The
rivalry of 48 years’ standing generally
gives rise to periodic spasms of mutual
dislike between students of universities
in close proximity to each other, and
the long history of Carolina-Duke com-
petition in all branches of athletics has
been no exception. Ft has amounted to
hatred in past years, But the tide has
definitely turned. The evidences upon
which these predictions are based con-
cerns the reactions to the Carolina-
Tennessee football score when broad-
casted over the Duke stadium loud speak-
er—a voluntary wave of cheering and
handclapping swept through the stands.
A diplomatic move and I don’t believe
that the extreme rivalry has ended in
such a short time. ‘The concrete will
break when the two teams play their
game.

University of Georgia

Plans for “Cane and Derby"”-day,—an
old Georgia» tradition which requests
seniors to wear derbies and carry canes
during the Homecoming week-end, are
being completed.

“She used to sit upon his lap
And stroke his hair with glee
But now she’s become seasick—
He's got water on his knee.”
Virginia Polytechnic Institute

Bert Lown and his orchestra will play
for the German Club’s dances to be given
on Friday and Saturday. nights, October
19 and 20, Marty Gregor and his Band
have been signed to play for the Cotillion
Club at V. P. I.

10,360 pies are consumed each year by
the ravenous students. It was estimated
that for a cow to produce annual milk
and cream supply for the Institute, the
animal would have to work very dili-
gently for a period of 120 years.
Collegiana

There are no mid-year finals at Yale...
A student at the University of Paris can
live in the Latin quarters for about $230
for two semesters. - His tuition amounts
to only $5.60 for a year ... There are
more inmates in insane asylums in the
country than there are college students
... At the University of Holland unique
customs govern the conduct of the fra-
ternity -pledges. Each must shave his
hair off, enter the house by a window—
under no circumstances is he allowedto
use a door... Ex-criminals are to teach
their arts at the University. of Chicago
. .. Elihu Root is a graduate of Hamil-
ton College, Clinton, N. Y. This insti-
tution offers a $500 scholarship to any
one with the name of Leavenworth .. .
Stepin Fetchit, the long, lanky, lacka-
daisical colored screen character attend-
ed St. Joseph’s College in Montgomery,
Ala. . . . Students at the University of
Missouri may take out insurance against
flunking. If a student flunks, the com-
pany gives him enough money to pay
his way through summer school. At
Ohio State it is reported that between
$75,000 and $100,000 has been spent for
similar insurance . ,. At the University
of Tennessee there is a date bureau. All
men desiring’ dates for the particular
nights puts down his description of the
type he would like to have a date with.
The co-eds do the same. In this way
satisfaction is had by all,

sure that you are a safe swimmer.
For the masses of students who do
not indulge in the more strenuous
forms of athletics, a swimming
pool would be the very thing for
exercise. We must not spend all
our time studying, you know, but
should get just a little recreation
now and then. A bathing beach is
hot handy, it is getting too cold
for river or lake swimming, and a
swimming pool (if we had one)
would be a most welcome addition
to our college equipment.

‘in was NEWS ...2 es

FIVE YEARS AGO

Davidson’s R. O. T. C. training may
be abolished in school by Presbyterian
Synod. Dr. Lingle witholds personal
views on the question . . . Much needed
trousers are donated to Davidson Band
by a modest gentleman who requests that
his name be withheld . . . Sixteen thou-
sand spectators see Davidson Wildcats
hold Army eleven to sixteen point lead

. Davidson College Church approved
by N. C. Synod at its recent session . . .

TEN YEARS AGO

Wofford puts up a stubborn defense
but succumbs 7-0 to the Wildcat attack
... Wingate Collegggleven swamped by
Wildkittens New bleachers give
Davidson a seating capacity of five thou-
sand . . , Davidson prepares to battle a
heavy Lenoir team; eve of game ushers
in stunt night for classes, which promises
frotic for all. :

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO

Brass Band begins to beat . . .. Band is
to shave twenty-eight pieces this year.
The band is to become a permanent or-
ganization on Davidson’s campus. The
U. S. government has offered to furnish
the instruments. . . Wildcats welcomed
with wonderful reception upon return
from game with W. & L, in which they
were defeated 7-0. Davidsonians show
they are behind theirtéam even in de-
feat.

TWENTY YEARS AGO

Davidson defeats Newberry by the
score of 22-7 | . .A coaching committee
has been or zed to help bers of
the athletic teams in their scholastic
work. Davidson coaches and managers
are determined not to lose the services
of good athletes and have made this ar-
rangement since the passing of eligibility
rules in intercollegiate sports.

“SELECTED PAPERS
of
PHINEAS SPOON.”

“Of New Deal Criticism”

There is a perhaps growing element in
these “Benighted States” who do not
sing Hosannah with the New Deal apolo-
gists.

In this peculiar day, our masses have
become “politics” conscious to an extent
not equalled since the Colonial demon-
stration against “taxation without rep-
resentation”. Indeed, if all of the varie-
gated manuscripts, economic and _politi-
cal, presently being published, were laid
end-to-end, this prodigious undertaking
would provide gainful employment to 736
Federal bureaucrats.

Notwithstanding the vast amount of
controversial invective with which our
political atmosphere is charged today, a
substantial portion of it is undeserving
of consideration. Too much is common
claptrap.

Tirades against the Roosevelt program
issue from agencies of thought ranging
down the gamut of motives from cunning
jealousy to bland fanaticism. Some are
demagogues and opportunists who, for
reasons inexplicable to any but their per-
verted ilk, would benefit from the dero-
gation of the “New Deal” sponsors .. .
at whatever cost to the nation. What
really reveals the character of criticism
is the design and motive of the critic.
Today these subtle motives are legion.

For instance, in the “Roaring Twen-
ties” there were Pollyanas who could
‘see “pie in the sky, bye and bye”. They
built their world on U. S. Steel at 246.
“Where are the snows of yesteryear”?
In this present year of our fall from
grace, too many hapless, disillusioned
spirits, in the backwash of their affluence.
are nursing shapeless grievances. It is
the part of human nature to react against
the order which, in the course of natural
events, supplants the exhausted dispen-
sation of “milk and honey”.

No comfort comes from cursing the
gods of an outrageous fortune, “The ar-
rows come to rest we know not where”.
And yet there is a rankling sense of
“injustice suffered” which demands a
scapegoat for expiation.

Find the scapegoat upon which can be
heaped the responsibility for frustrated
dreams, and Fortune’s fools can carry
on with a minimum of mental anguish.

Whooped up by the political tom-toms
of divers “interests”, mobilized under a
diversity of banners many pressure
groups ‘are variously participating in a
political offensive. With naught in com-
mon but reactionism, the phalanxes of
dissatisfaction move up against the cita-
del of the “New Deal” under a barrage
of carping gunnery.

Bombast and Fury: over the air,
through the press, down from the pulpit
the conflicting exhortations rain, Cham-
bers of Commerce, Rotary Clubs, sundry
Conventions make resolutions on this and
that. The blatant volume of this con-
troversy is more increased with the in-
jection of esoteric theories by profes-
sorial antagonists and “authorities” of
one description and another. ;

The distressing feature is not the fact
that controversy rages. Surely debate
and four-square disagreement are thor-
oughly wholesome in effect. What should
disturb us is the positive profusion, and
consequent confusion, of interpretations
as to exactly, what constitutes the debate-
able issues. The prevalence of insincere
attacks which purposely raise false issues
intensifies the chaos. The conjurors of
imaginary wrongs draw herrings across
the trail of even earnest thinking.

In this turbulent climate of Bombast
and Fury what ordinary mortal can make
anything intelligible out of the chaos of
confusion which surrounds. The verbiage
is so massed that it gluts the mind, over-
powers reason and chokes out truth.

It strikes this very fallible observer
that despite the diversity of contempor-
ary opinion, there is but one issue in as-
cendance which is of vital consequence
to Americans today. One issue to which
all other considerations, no matter how
violently sustained, must be sublimated.

Toward the end of his latest “fireside
chat”, by remote control, the President
in a moment of unfamiliar definitiveness
drew the first sharp lines and posed the
issue. When he came out unequivocably
for “economic security” he, for the first
time, hoisted his colors. From _ this
point the controversy can take shape.

—PHINEAS Spoon.

Editor's Note—Phineas Spoon’s next
paper is the body of an essay, to which
this is but an introduction. As such these
two are essentially companion pieces.

¢ 7

GIRLS, WOMEN wish-
ing to enter free trainin
to become nurses send
self addressed stamped
envelope for details,
Southern Bureau, Box
222, Atlanta, Ga.

